
Wednesday, January 31, 1996• Vol. XXVII No. 79 TI-lE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Joel electrifies Stepan with 'non-concert' 
By TIM SHERMAN Spedal Evcms Correspondent 
lie was llenry Kissinger, Sting, and "Vinny from down the block," but in the end, he was what evoryone expected him to be -The Piano Man. 
Superstar singer-song­writer Billy Joel, in rather a unique question and answer session, delighted a sold-out Stepan Center last evening with a highly entertaining mix of frank diseussion, humor, and rnusie, with a little bit of 


dream-fulfillment thrown Joel in. 
Toward thtl end of the event, an already random set of questions got even a bit cra­zim when Mitch Silver, a Notre Dame law 
see JOEL/ page 4 


Two arrested in connection with burglaries 
By LIZ FORAN A.sociate News Ediwr 
Two mtm have been arrested in eonnection with a burglary at the 0' llara-Graee (;raduatll Hesidences at Notre Dame and have been linked to the Christmas Break burglaries in the Turtle Creek and Campus View apartment complexes, aecording to Chuck llurloy, assistant director of Notre Dame Slleurity. 
Thll two suspeets are Steve llarvey, 25, and Derrick Branson, 19, both of South Bnnd. aceording to South Bend Police. 
Thn two Wtlre arrnsted Friday at the Alltronks stortl on Grape Hoad in Mishawaka after they attempted to use a Visa credit card to purchase stereo equipment, llurley said. 
"Visa reprllsentatives reported unusual activity on the card to the Mishawaka Poliee Department and said they were unable to eontaet the card's owner, a Notre Dame graduate student," llurley said in a press reltlase regarding the arrests. 
Notre Dame Security later located the stu­
see ARRESTI page 4 
• NEWS ANALYSIS 

One year later ... 
Gays and lesbians struggle for identity after spotlight dims 
By DAVE TYLER News Editor 
One year ago today it crept into the local papers and television news programs. As time passed it appeared in The New York Times, on MTV, PBS and even the BBC. 
One year ago today, the news that the University was denying Gays and Lesbians at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's (GLND/SMC) access to the University Counseling Center broke on the front page of The Observer. Because GLND/SMC was not an officially rec­ognized campus body, they could not use University facilities, administrators said. Because GLND/SMC supported activities that were "philosophically inconsistent" with Catholic teaching, the group could never be granted offieial recognition, Vice President for Student Affairs Patricia O'Hara told the University community. 
One year later, Notre Dame is still dealing with the ramifications of those actions. 
The Counseling Center incident sparked an unprecedented on-and off-campus reaction. Representative bodies like the Campus Life Council (CLC), Faculty Senate, Student Senate, llall Presidents' Council (HPC) and Graduate Student Council (GSC) all passed resolutions condemning the administration for their action 
see GLND/ page 6 


The Observer/Mike Ruma 

Protests like this one last March allowed members of the Notre Dame community to take a stand on the issue of gays and lesbians in the uni­versity environment. 

Foran named new Editor-in-Chief 
By BRAD PRENDERGAST Associate News Editor 
Junior Liz Foran was elected Editor-in­Chief of The Observer for the 1996-97 year by a vote of the newspaper's General Board. 
Foran hails from Michigan City, Indiana and lives in Farley Hall. She is a student in the College of Arts and Letters, pursuing a major in Sociology and American Studies. She partially sub­sists on Diet Coke. 
."J feel honored and privileged to be able to serve The Observer in such a capacity," Foran said. "The next year proves to be very exciting, and I'm look­ing forward to the challenge of the new position." 
A member of The Observer staff since her freshman year, Foran served first as a news writer and an Assistant News Editor. 
As a sophomore, she worked as an Assoeiate News Editor and last semester studied overseas in the Notre Dame London Program. 
In addition to her campus re­sponsibilities, Foran has worked as both an intern and a correspondant for the Michigan City News-Dispatch since 1992. 
Mindful of the proud traditions and journalistic aspirations of The Observer through her work and positions of lead­ership, Foran said she expects to main­tain the standards of the paper while taking the opportunity to improve it. 
"I think the biggest challenge we face 

see FORAN/ page 4 Foran 


Fear of future prevents students from speaking out 
Editor's Note: This is the third in a four-part series ex­ploring the issue of sexual ha­rassnwnt in American institu­tions ofhigher learning. 
By JAMIE HEISLER A;sistant N~ws Ediwr and 
MEGAN McGRATH News Wrirer 
Flirtatious actions, suggestive eomments, friendly offers­these are just' a few of the forms that sexual harassment can take in a student-faculty nwmbnr relationship. 
In a eo liege setting, a line line separates a dose relationship, with the students' interests at heart, and sexual harassment. This line is crossed, however, when a professor misuses the power inherent in a faculty po­sition. 
"With students or graduate students, a professor has a great deal of power," said The­ology Chair Lawrence Cun­ningham. "They can help them out a lot, or really shaft them in terms of recommendations and grades." 
This fear for their futur(). is one of many whieh often pre­vents students from coming for­ward immediately in instances of sexual harassment. In sev­eral eases, students hesitate because that line has become blurred, and they are unsure of the nature of the relationship with their professor. 
"Students sometimes fear coming forward because they're afraid the story will be turned around on them," Assis­tant Dean of Arts and Letters Ava Preacher said. "They're afraid their motives will be questioned, that they will be ac­cused of initiating or encourag­ing a relationship." 

But according to Associate Provost Kathleen Cannon, Uni­versity policies addressing stu­dent-faculty relations prevent this from occurring. 
"Sometimes its possible to see how things can be misinter­preted, how a misunderstand­ing can occur," Cannon said. "But the professor is in a power position, and therefore cannot use a consensual relationship as an excuse. Even if they were involved in a relationship, the power differential ~s still too great." 

This differential is especially 
a factor in cases involving stu­
dent and graduate teaching 
assistants. The close proximity 
of ages in these cases often 
keeps the T A from seeing his or 
her actions as threatening. 
"Teaching assistants will say 
they were just trying to be 
friends with the student, and 
that they see being on friendly 
terms as the most important 
thing in a teacher-student rela­
tionship," Cannon said. "But 
we hold TAs to the same level 
of professional conduct [as ·professors]." 
Implicit in the definition of 
professional conduct is main­
taining a level of trust. This 
trust is violated when sexual 
harassment occurs. 
"The classroom is a compli­
cated space and involves trust, identification and exchange," said Assistant Professor of En­glish Gloria-Jean Masciarotte. "Sexual harassment in the classroom is a very confusing situation in which students aren't sure sometimes unless the action is overt." 
The classroom becomes more complicated at an institution such as Notre Dame, where Catholic morality issues become mixed with other academic fac­tors. 
"Some students who might have more defenses in other situations don't expect it here and are caught off guard," Cannon said. "They think of it as a safe environment and don't put up the same shields they might at other schools." 
However, Gender Studies 
see FUTURE/ page 6 


page 2 The Observer • INSIDE Wednesday, January 31, 1996 
• INSIDE COLUMN 

Let it snow, Let it snow, Let it snow 

August, 1995. It was a cold day in South Bend,  ------­Maureen Hurley  
Indiana, and there was  Sainr Mary's News  
a light rain falling on  Editor  
Saint Mary's College. I  

was on my way to class, and suddenly I stopped in amazement. 
"Wow," I said in complete awe. "It's snow­ing." 
My friends looked at me with that she's­from-Florida-just-smile-and-amuse-her look, and explained top me the difference between snow and an icy rain. 
Now, do I ever know what snow is. It seems like once the snow actually does melt, we get another six to eight inch snowstorm within the week. 
So, I have just one question. 
Does spring ever come? 

Before leaving for college, the last time I saw snow was when I was six years old. Since then, I've lived in Orlando, where we bundle up and start to complain about what a rough winter it is ... when it's a chilling 50 degrees outside. 
Let's just say I went through extreme cul­ture shock. 
However, after trudging through the ice, sleet and snow, I can laugh at most Floridi­ans' snow envy. 
Yes. Snow envy. 
As everyone up north plans road trips to the beach, people in beach-like weather dream of a white Christmas. Literally. 
Crazy, isn't it? 
Back home, every year at the fairgrounds, there's a winter carnival. And this isn't just any winter carnival. With the magic of tech­nolology, engineers have created snow. Snow in Florida. It was the biggest thing since Disney World. Anyway, what this "snow" was ended up to be one big tent full of shaved ice. And, after being exposed to the "harsh" 50 degree climate, it begins to melt. And, as we all know, (some more painfully than others) when snow melts, it turns to ice. 
Essentially, every year, these people pay to slip and fall on ice; and to say that they, indeed, have seen snow. 
I think I'm beginning to take this winter wonderland for granted. OK, I admit it, I like most students, complain about how the heaters in the buildings are set to tempera­tures suited for the tropics, yet temperatures are artie outside. I've fallen on the ice one (or two ... or three... ) too many times. I still feel the pain. 
I guess I'm too old now to build snow forts like my little brothers and I did so long ago. But everyone should take time out from their busy college lives and break out in a snowball fight. Or, better yet, steal dining hall trays and go sledding. 
It's kind of sad that some of my friends back home have never caught snowflakes on their tongue. That they've never felt the flaky snow that's perfect for making snowballs. That they can't see a perfect white blanket of snow then run across it, leaving their foot­prints behind. 
You know, maybe the South Bend weather isn't so bad afterall. Now, if only we had snow days off from classes every now and then... 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer . 
•  TOOAY'S STAFF  
News  Accent  
Melanie Laflin  Lynn Bauwens  
Jillian Pagliocca  
Production  
Sports  Belle Bautista  
Joe Villinski  Jackie Moser  
Betsy Baker  
Lab Tech  
Graphics  Michael Hungeling  
Brian Blank  


The Observ<r (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday excep[ during exam and vacation per,ods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
• Wmu.o AT A GLANCE 
F-14 fighter jet failure results in fatal crash and burn 
NASHVILLE, Tenn. 

Navy investigators today studied the wreckage of an F-14 fighter jet and inter­viewed witnesses who watched the aircraft as it plunged into a house and exploded in flames. The crash Monday killed five people, including the two-man crew. The pilot of the F-14 Tomcat had been blamed for a previous accident. The plane, its engines screaming, fell from the sky shortly after taking off from Nashville International Airport. "It was like a movie, the squeal get­ting higher and higher," said Steve Bartlett, who lives across the street. "The way my house shook, I wasn't sure it didn't hit my house." Military investigators were collect­ing wreckage and interviewing witnesses, and planned to interview witnesses and col­lect tape recordings of the pilot's conversa­tions with the Nashville airport tower, said Cmdr. Kevin Wensing. Those will be the only tapes they have to work with, since F­14s do not carry automatic flight data or cockpit voice recorders like the devices 
required on commercial airliners. "We may never know why the crew didn't eject,"
Rear Adm. Skip Dirren told reporters this 
morning. Newer fighter planes do have L.----------------------------::' recorders, he said, but they were not source: Jane's All the World's Aircraft AP included when F-14s were built in the '70s. 
Dole copes with campaign pressures 
WASHINGTON 
First it was George Herbert Walker Bush, now Malcolm Stevenson Forbes. Jr. For Bob Dole, it.is a scenario all too familiar: Just when he thinks the presi­dential nomination is within reach, a preppy challenger with inherited wealth threatens his grip. Dole isn't the only 1996 Republican candidate to take pot­shots at Forbes' privileged upbringing 

and publishing family fortune. "Richie Rich," is Texas Sen. Phil Gramm's label for Forbes. Pat Buchanan talks of Forbes crafting his flat tax plan "down at the yacht basin" and of a palatial Forbes estate complete with polo ponies. But while these salvos are usually delivered with a good-natured smile, Forbes is clearly getting under Dole's skin. When he takes after Forbes' wealth, it is sometimes done with deft humor; the other day Dole pre­dicted he would win once voters "add up our assets," but then he jokingly cringed and said of Forbes, "He's got a lot of those." 

Little Miss Muffet sings cure for AIDS 
. NEWYORK 
Whey, the watery dairy product best known from the tale of Little Miss Muffet, might provide a new way to keep the AIDS virus from infecting people during sex. A modified version of a protein extracted from whey blocked the AIDS virus from infecting cells in the test tube, researchers report. If further tests go well, the modified protein might be put in a cream or foam that could be used along with condoms, said researcher A. Robert Neurath. Neurath is head of the Laboratory of Biochemical Virology at the Lindsey F. Kimball Research Institute of the New York Blood Center. He and colleagues reported the test-tube result in the February issue of Nature Medicine. An AIDS expert said the work left some key questions unanswered. Whey is produced when milk is made into cheese. Most of it is then used in other products, including ice cream, bread, pie crust and canned soups. For the new work, sci­entists modified a whey protein called beta-lactoglobulin to produce a substance they named B69. 

The AccuWeather®forecast for noon, Wednesday, Jan. 31. Lines separate high temperature zones fm the day. 


FRONTS: 
"T""r _._.._ .........._ 
COLD WARM STATIONARY 
Pressure 
H L 
HIGH LOW VIBAssoctatedPress 
A fighter jet crashed into a re~idential

Nashville 
neighborhood during a training mission. plane crash 
Length 61ft. 10 112 in. Wingspan 64ft. 1 112 in. Range About 2,000 miles First flown Dec. 21, 1970 Manufacturer Grumman Corp. 
Bethpage, N. Y 

~­
_____....... r:--· -,:
;J TENNESSEE l 1 mile ,# so miles 
=~-''""'·-"""'--····""···'·""'·'·-··""-·--~-"'--··",.--=""''""'"-· ~ 1 km 

P&G introduces new fat substitute 
CINCINNATI 
Procter & Gamble Co. is in for a marketing challenge, to put it delicately. Products with P&G's new fat substi­tute, olestra, will have to carry a label warning that it can cause abdominal cramps and loose stools. "You're not off to a good start, put it that way," said Jack Trout, president of Trout & Partners, a marketing consultant in Greenwich, Conn. Last week, the Food and Drug Administration approved olestra for use in salted snacks and crackers. But the FDA also said all products con­taining olestra must carry a label reading: "This prod­uct contains olestra. Olestra may cause abdominal cramping and loose stools. Olestra inhibits the absorp­tion of some vitamins and other nutrients. Vitamins A, D, E and K have been added." P&G, which has spent more than $200 million over 25 years in developing olestra, already has begun campaigning for olestra. It ran a full-page newspaper ad nationwide last week that read: "No fat. No compromises ... It's about taste. It's about time." Still, there may be little the company can do about the wisecracks. 


High tech eavesdroppers nail Prince 
LONDON 
Prince Philip appears to be the latest royal to have a telephone call intercepted and recorded by electronic eavesdroppers. The Sun newspaper reported Tuesday that a 17-minute conversation between Philip, Queen Elizabeth II's husband, and an unidentified woman was taped by a man with a radio scanner last month while the royal family was at its Sandringham estate. The Sun didn't reveal details of the conversation, but said it con­cerned "sensitive issues" and allegedly took place the day news broke of the queen's call for Prince Charles and Princess Diana to bring their troubled marriage to a swift end. But the story says several YIPs are mentioned, including the Queen Mother Elizabeth, Prime Minister John Major, Prince Charles and Camilla Parker Bowles, with whom Charles has admitted to having an affair. It said Philip, even in casual, private conversation, retained proper respect for his wife, referring to her always as the queen -just as members of the family do in public. 
B~r:11 
SHOWERS  RAIN  T-STORMS FLURRIES  SNOW  ICE  SUNNY  PT. CLOUDY  CLOUDY  
33 16 11 -1  Dallas 40 Denver 15 Los Angeles 62 Miami 82 Minneapolis -1  28 ·6 54 67 -16  New Orleans 58 New York 28 Philadelphia28 Phoenix 65 St. Louis 19  46 15 11 54 9  

C 1996 AccuWeather, Inc. 
.JAt. ~ ,..-/\ 
0~El¥ L....i~ 


Wednesday, January 31, 1996 The Observer • NEWS page 3 
• fACULTY SENATE 


Retiring O'Meara makes last annual address 
By GWENDOLYN NORGLE 
Assistant N~ws Editor 
Timothy O'Meara had no long range plans. lie took one chal­lenge at a time in his 18 years as University Provost, he said in his last address to the Faculty Senate yesterday. 
O'Meara, who will be retiring from his position at the end of this current academic year, be­gan his speech by offering a brief summary of his career in the Provost's Office: "We've had our ups and downs." 
Throughout his address, in which he frequently asked the Senate for its input on the top­ics he was discussing, O'Meara pointed out some of the highs and lows the University has ex­perienced since he first became Provost in 1968. 
One accomplishment that has been made, according to O'Meara, was "a very signifi­cant improvement in the quali­ty of the faculty." 
In looking to further this progress, he said, the Univer­sity must continue to ask itself," "What is the next step in improving the quality of the faculty?" 
One way to do this is to in­crease faculty salaries, a task with which O'Meara claimed to have some success. Faculty salaries were improved "signif­icantly" during his time as Provost. Notre Dame now ranks about 20th in the country among lop private schools in terms of faculty salaries, he said. 
Another example of success O'Meara cited involved the Provost's Advisory Committee. "The way PAC is run now ­that's a definite improvement," he said, explaining that putting senior professors on the Committee was a smart deci­sion on his part. "Fundamentally, I think [PAC] is doing well," he said. 
The hiring of women at the University was another topic of discussion at the Senate's meeting. 
O'Meara said that in the be­ginning years of his career as Provost, women faced many obstacles and some still do. "It was difficult in all arenas then. It's still a difficult thing at Notre Dame in some arenas," he said. 
"There are some depart­ments where it is working very well. We must continue in this direction," he added. 
Concerning the hiring of mi­norities, he said, "it was diffi­cult then, and it is difficult now." 
Recognizing the minor progress that has been made in regards to the hiring of Mrican Americans and Hispanics since 1968, O'Meara said, "with mi­norities, we're holding our own," and he explained that "it doesn't mean that that is good. 
Commenting on the student body, O'Meara said that "the quality of the student body has gone up," and he cited recent SAT scores as evidence of im­proved academic standings of the classes. 
Along with the success of the student body, the reputation of the school has grown signifi­cantly, he said, but "we have a lot to do." In the future, O'Meara said, "we should move ahead academically." He ex­pressed his disappointment in the reviews of some of Notre Dame's graduate programs, saying "we're better than that." 
When the floor was opened 
see SENATE I page 6 



This famine is a feast 
Black 47 
brings Irish 

rock to ND 
By KARA PAVLIK 
StafTWiiter 
Aye, for the love of the Irish. 

A love shared with Irish Americans for half-warm pints of stout, Yeatsian rhetoric and the immigrant Irishman will bring the Irish rock brigade Black 47 to the University of Notre Dame's Alumni-Senior Club on Wednesday night. 
There, fans may experience the politically minded Celtic rap-reggae-rock group famous for playing loud and live in East Manhattan's Irish bars. 
Named after the worst year of Ireland's 19th century pota­to famine, Black 47 will per­form songs from its new album, "Green Suede Shoes." The album is due out in early March. 
To Larry Kirwan, the band's Irish-born lead singer, the album returns to the "sweaty, claustrophobic, passionate, live ideal" where Black 47 first planted its roots. 
'"Green Suede Shoes' is an entire collection of Black 4 7 songs. One, called 'Bobby Sands MP,' deals with Ireland's hunger strikes, which was the first real con­tact with Northern Irish poli­tics for many Americans under 40." 
With rousing lyrics from the likes of "Bobby Sands MP"-We wouldn't wear their convict clothes, so they stripped us to the bone--Kirwan and his five band mates bring a strong political theme to much of their music--often ranting against British economic poli-

EMI Records/Chris Cuffaro 

Black 47 brings a unique brand of Irish rock music to Alumni-Senior Club tonight at 10:30. Space is limited. 

cies. Black 4 7 began playing the 
"Part of the deal when we Irish working class bars in the formed our band in 1989," Bronx, Brooklyn and Queens, Kirwan said, "was to keep the it hit a nerve with scores of Irish question off the back Irish immigrants who found burner and bring it to the their original lyrics about the front." 
And that they have. When see BLACK 47/ page 4 


Building Today's Catholic Young Leaders •.. 
.............................................................................. 
...Rebuilding Today's Catholic Church 
Work as Parish Youth Minister/Catholic High School Campus Minister/Retreat Leader/Teen Leadership Training/Organize Outreach Programs/Peer Ministry Live in Community • Develop Franciscan Spirituality • Work in Teams 
Training, Monthly Stipend, Housing, Medical Insurance provided. Fr. Tony wtll be at Notre Dame's Center for Social Concern on"'January 30/31, 1996. To schedule an appointment, call the number below. 
For information, call or write: Fr. Anthony Vetrano, OFM Cap. Director, Capuchin Youth & Family Ministries Rt 9D PO Box 192 Garrison, NY 10524 914A24~3609 
Interested in doing desktop publishing for The Observer? Call Jackie Moser at 1-5303 or 4-1266 




APPALACHIA SPRING 
BREAK 
March 10-16, 1996 


SEMINAR 
The Appalachia Seminar during the spring break rresents a unique service-learning opportunity. Students travel to various states in the Appalachia region: Kentucky, West Virginia, Tennessee, and Mississippi. They work at a variety of sites which examine the political, social, economic, and cultural forces influencing the Appalachian people. These sites focus on several issues including self help, housing construction, environmental well-being, rural health care, and race relations in Appalachia. Through physical labor and person-to-person contacts, students experience the cultural richness of the area and begin to understand and analyze the social forces that influence the lives of the mountain people. 
THE SEMINAR 
• 
Is a !-credit Theology course 

• 
Involves orientation and follow-up learning 

• 
Presents the opportunity to work, laugh, and learn with other volunteers. 


APPLICATIONS: Available at the Center Applications are due: Wednesday, January 31, 1996 
For further Tim I-lipp, 634-1141 or Alex Andreichuk, 634-3504 information: Bradley Harmon, 631-9473 Dr. jay Brandenberger, 631-5293 
page 4 The Observer • NEWS Wednesday, January 31, 1996 
Arrest 
continued from page 1 
dent and discovered the card had been stolen in the Thursday break-in of the student's resi­dence. 
"At the same time, Mishawaka police arrived at Alltronics where the stereo equipment was being installed in a vehicle," Hurley continued. Both suspects were charged with forgery, a Class C felony, and Harvey was also charged with burglary, he said. 
After they were arrested, Notre Dame Security questioned the subjects, who admitted to breaking into and removing property from the O'Hara-Grace residences, according to Hurley. Both are being held at the St. Joseph County Jail. 
Hurley said the two men were linked to the break-ins at the Turtle Creek and Campus View apartment complexes after police found their vehicle matched the description of one involved in a stolen checks and forgery case at the Notre Dame Federal Credit Union. 
"The checks were reported stolen from an off­campus student residence at Turtle Creek dur­ing Notre Dame's recent semester break," Hurley said. 
Additional evidence included a 1995 Notre Dame class ring that one of the suspects was wearing which was reported stolen from a Turtle Creek apartment in the fall of 1994. 
Notre Dame Security, Mishawaka, South Bend, and St. Joseph County police departments are coordinating their investigations in the two cases. 


Joel 
continued from page 1 
student, asked Joel if he could join him on stage to fulfill a life-long dream by playing piano for a song with Joel. 
The surprised Joel obliged Silver's request and proceeded to sing the first two verses of "Scenes from an Italian Restaurant" with Silver accompanying on piano. 
"It was definitely a dream come true," an elated Silver said after the show. 
"I was familiar with the song and I had performed in front of people before, but never 2,000. He's my idol and I just owe it to him to thank him for the opportunity to fulfill a dream." 
Silver's request was the last in a long string of off-the-wall questions and invitations. Numerous female members of the audience offered their personal tour guide services while one spectator suggested a visit to Bridget's as a possible way for Joel to spend the night. 
And then there was the expected Christie Brinkley question ("How do you meet a supermodel?"). There was also music. 
Perhaps one of the more intriguing aspects of the appearance was whether or not Joel would play the infamous "Only The Good Die Young." 
He didn't waste any time in killing the suspense. Before even fielding a question from the audience, Joel burst into a reggae version of the satirical commentary, following with the more standard version of the first few verses. 
Joel also didn't hesitate in pleas­ing the crowd with a handful of pop­ular hits. 
The 45-year old long-time Long Island resident wove various verses from favorites such as "Uptown Girl," "Tell Her About It" and "The Longest Time" into responses to audience queries. 
But Joel took care to explain that not all his hits should be taken alone. 
"I don't sit down to write a single," Joel said. "I sit down and write a whole album and let the record company figure out the singles." 
In addition to explaining his process of developing songs, Joel filled his answers to the questions with a substantial amount of humor. 
At times, Joel was more of a stand-up comic than anything, as he offered impressions of everyone from Kissinger to Sting to Garth Brooks. 
Also, Joel offered hilarious anec­dotes from his youth, many involving his way of meeting members of the opposite set. 
"I was never really the 'cool' type at parties so I usually just went off and starting to play the piano," Joel related. "And pretty soon girls would come see me. I kept saying to myself, 'I love this thing'." 
In addition to those stories, Joel was quick in poking fun at his New York upbringing. 
"New Yorkers have an attitude," Joel said. 
"We're rude and we think we're smarter than everyone else. But we're not." 
l-Ie did oblige the boisterous New York natives in the crowd with "New York State of the Mind," but the bal­ance of the act featured many of his lesser-known songs, ranging from the older to the more recent. 
Also included in the abbreviated play list were "Summer Highland Falls," "Famous Last Words," "Downeaster Alexa"and "Where's the Orchestra." 
Surely, Joel pleased various seg­ments of the audience with the somewhat obscure tunes, but the question was begged -when was "The Piano Man" going to play "The Piano Man"? 
He saved the best for last, culmi­nating with the melodic classic, complete with harmonica. 
In an evening filled with words, both spoken and sung, it was a fit­ting final statement. 

Black 47 
continued from page 3 
grind of immigration painfully real. 
"When Chris Byrne, the uil­leann (a flute-like pipe) player and I formed the band, we had a preconception that people would say, 'great music,' which didn't happen. The audiences were hostile to our music, so we got to be a fairly aggressive band," Kirwan said. "Some (Irish immigrants) are not too keen to be portrayed in a cold, real light." 
Instead, it was left-wing Irish Americans who embraced the band's realism and lyrical bal­lads. Every song, Kirwan claims, is "a long story from beginning to end, with well defined characters." 

Irish Americans appeared ready to identify with Kirwan's songwriting abilities; he com­bines opposites, such as funk with more traditional Celtic sounds. 
"Our music seemed to wake up a dormant group of Irish Americans by cutting away some of the false emotions in old Irish songs. It was Yeats who once said that poetry should be as cold and passion­ate as the dawn. 
Clash, however, is not the reason why Black 47 will post­pone a break scheduled after two consecutive Chicago con­certs to make an appearance Wednesday in South Bend. 
In tune with the band's spon­taneous nature, they finalized plans just over a week ago to give an impromptu perfor­mance on Notre Dame's cam­pus. According to Kirwan the band has long been looking for­ward to playing a session at the "unofficial headquarters" for Irish American activity. 
"Irish Americans look toward Notre Dame and want to be a part of that. Although Ireland is the fountain of Irishness, the Irish spirit is found in genera­tions after generations of Irishmen," Kirwan said. "Every time we've played in Chicago, we've asked why no agent was smart enough to book us at Notre Dame." 
It seems that Black 4 7 found an agent worthy of its intellec­tual esteem. At Wednesday's performance at Notre Dame, the band will blend their unique assortment of electric guitars, trombones, drums, Irish pipes and tin whistles in suit. Doors open to the public at 
9:30 p.m. with $4 admission. Space is limited. 
Kirwan sums up Black 47's radical combination of rhythm and views, traditionally known for its aggressiveness: "Our band is taking Irish music and Irish culture and feeding it through the prison of New York. Our band was not taken from the green hills of Donegal with a whole New York veneer put on it." 
Foran 
continued from page 1 

is improving the overall quality of The Observer while continu­ing to Pxpand our coverage of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's, as well as the South Bend area," she said. 
The Editor-in-Chief is ulti­mately responsible for the day­to-day content and quality of The Observer, as well as coor­dinating its operations. 
Foran will take over the position after Spring Break. 

God gives each person one lifetime. What are you doing with yours? 
Have you considered 

THE HOLY CROSS CANDIDATE YEAR? 
A one-year program at Moreau Seminary at the University of Notre Dame for college graduates interested in exploring the possibility of a lifetime of service as a Holy Cross priest or brother. Scholarship assistance is available. 
Call or write for information: 

Fr. John Conley, C.S.C. Fr. Patrick Neary, C.S.C. Congregation of Holy Cross Box 54 I, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219) 63 I -6385 
Do you want to help tutor little kids? It's easy! 





Join the NSHP!! 
-we provide transportation -only two hours a week -use for community service hours 
We need tutorers for these times and days: 
Tuesday/Thursday 1:00-2:00 Tuesday/Thursday 3:00-4:00 Tuesday/Thursday 3:30-4:30 Monday/Wednesday 2:30-3:30 Monday/Wednesday 2:30-3:45 
To sign up call: Nicole x2668 Susan x4238 Randolph x0802 
~­

Wednesday, January 31, 1996 
The Observer· NATIONAL NEWS page 5 
New device detects cavities Bombing defense says 
By MALCOLM RIITER 
Associated Press 
NEWYOHK 

Scientists may have found a bntter way for your dentist to look for cavities. It involves passing an electric current through a tooth and all the way down your arm. 
Don't worry, it won't hurt. 

In fact, by detecting the very earliest stages of decay, the technique eould spare you the hassle of clrilling and fillings, says researcher Christopher I.onghottom. 
It hasn't been tried on pa­titlnts or even animals yet, but it was 100 percent aecurate in deteeting dncay in 26 extracted teeth, Longbottom and eol­leagues reported in the Febru­ary issue of the journal Nature Medicine. 
So it might work better than looking at teeth or using X­rays, both of which can miss early signs of decay, he said. 
Longbottom is a lecturer at the University of Dundee Dental School in Scotland. He did the work with scientists there and at the University of St. Andre 's in Scotland. 
The goal of the technique is to detect tiny pores inside the tooth that are created by the very earliest stages of decay. A dentist can then take steps like applying fluoride or a sealant to stop the decay process and per­haps even reverse it, Long­bottom said. 
The device detects pores by passing an alternating current through the tooth and compar­ing the input frequency with the output frequency. The dif­ference indicates the extent of porosity, Longbottom said. 
To use the device on patients, a dentist would slip an elec­trode between teeth or put it on the biting surfaces. The tiny current would go into the tooth and down the patient's arm to an electrode in the patient's hand, and then back to the device. 
A similar setup is used now to test whether teeth are alive. It causes a tingle in the tooth. The decay-detecting device would use too little current to be felt, Longbottom said. 
~~~~~,=~=,h~e~-~b~s~e-.r~v~e-r~~~~~~ml~om~··s~dMi~~~Tigm.
0 

is now accepting applications for: 


Managing Editor 
Applicants should have strong editorial and journalistic skills and be comfortable in a management position. A basic understanding of newspaper production and experience with the Macintosh system is helpful. Any Notre Dame or Saint Mary's College student is encouraged to apply. 

Business Manager 
Any sophomore or junior business major at Notre Dame or Saint Mary's interested in valuable work experience is encouraged to apply. Applicants should have strong interpersonal and organizational skills and a basic understanding of accounting principles. 
Applicants should submit a resume and five-page statement to Liz Foran by 5 p.m. Tuesday, February 6. For additional information about the positions contact Business Manager joe Riley at 631-5313, or Editor-in-Chief john Lucas at 631-4542, or stop by the 
o ce on the third oor o LaFortune. 


the 
Notre Dame FRESH 


Oklahoma jury biased 
By PAUL QUEARY 
Associated Press 
OKLAHOMA CITY 
Arguing that the two Okla­homa City bombing defendants cannot get a fair trial in Okla­homa, defense attorneys today asked a federal judge to move their trial out of state. 

Lawyers for Timothy McVeigh and Terry Nichols said their clients could not find unbiased jurors in Oklahoma. The April 19 explosion at the Alfred P. Murrah Federal Building killed 169 people and injured more than 500 others. 
"The infeetion of prejudicial publieity about the bombing extends throughout the state of 
the head of Niehols' defense team. Tigar made opening statements in a change of venue hearing that is expected to last four days. 
U.S. Attorney Patrick Hyan argued that the emotional and psychological trauma associat­ed with the bombing is largely eonfined to Oklahoma City and does not extend to Tulsa or Lawton, the two cities prosecu­tors have proposed as trial sites. Lawton is about 90 miles west of Oklahoma City, Tulsa is 105 miles northeast. 
"The defense has not, cannot and will not prove the state of Oklahoma cannot find 12 jurors and six alternates who can re­main impartial," Ryan said. 
Prosecutors maintain that surveys of prospective jurors show that "56 to 70 percent of the people in every venue sur­vey said they had a totally open mind" when asked if they thought McVeigh was guilty. 
"The media coverage in Ok­
lahoma has included demo­
nizations of Timothy McVeigh 
and Terry Niehols," said Hob 
Nigh, one of MeVeigh's attor­
neys. 
Prosecutors said media eov­
erage has been pervasive 
throughout the country. 
"This is a national story, per­
haps without precedent," Ryan 
said. "You can't find a major 
newspaper in this country that 
has not covered this story hun­
dreds of times." 
Stephen Jones, McVeigh's 
lead attorney, previously has 
mentioned San Franciseo and 
Charleston, W.Va., as possible 
trial sites. 
Proseeutors want the trial to 
stay in Lawton but have said 
Tulsa would still be close 
enough for victims' families to 
attend. Tulsa also has a bigger 

courthouse and more modern 
faeilities. 
McVeigh and Nichols could face the death penalty if con­victed on federal murder and conspiracy charges. 
They were moved Monday from the federal prison at El Reno to the Oklahoma County Jail so they could attend today's hearing. 
It's not the first time the de­fense has used the fair trial ar­gument to seek a change in the case. 
They persuaded a federal ap­peals court to remove the origi­nal judge, U.S. District Judge Wayne Alley, after raising doubts about his impartiality because the bombing had dam­aged his courtroom and cham­bers. 


RETREAT 
•
a two-day, overnight retreat for freshmen 

•guided 
by students, faculty, and staff 

•
an opportunity to deepen your understanding ofyourself, 


your transition to life at Notre Dame, and your hopes for your life at Notre Dame and beyond. 
retreat 
FRIDAY, FEB. 2 (4 PM) to SATURDAY, FEB. 3 (6 PM)
dates : forms 


AT CAMPUS MINISTRY OFFICES thru Thurs, Feb 1
available: 
questions: Campus Ministry Office, 103 Hesburgh Library 631-7800 or 631-5056 


0MPUS 
cost · $10 
MINISTRY 

------~------~----------~-­
page 6 Wednesday, January 31, 1996 
The Observer • NEWS 
GLND 
continued from page 1 
and calling for official recogni­tion for GLND/SMC. Camera crews and reporters descended on quads. 
Opinion pages filled with an­gry letters from both sides of the issue. Students, faculty and staff held marches, protests and rallies. O'Hara createc! an Ad Hoc committee to determine how the University could better meet the needs of gay and les­bian students. 
Once the momentum gath­ered, it was hard to stop. 
"It was like releasing the parking brake on a semi at the top of a hill," says John Bland­ford GLND/SMC co-chair. "It was tough to tell which way things would fall." 
Blandford believes some un­usual circumstances lead to the dramatic and far-reaching re­action. 
"The timing was right and the mood was changing," he says. "Our group was better known on campus, and students here are probably more aware of gay and lesbian concerns," than any other student body before them. Groups like Amnesty In-
Senate 
continued from page 3 
for questions, O'Meara was asked how he viewed the role of the Faculty Senate. He re­sponded, "it is important to have a faculty-type body such as this. I have learned a lot about the Senate, governance, and mutual respect. I fully rec­ognize the frustrations of the Senate." O'Meara also pointed to the success of the forums [Notre Dame Forums on Aca­demic Life], which he said have been very influential in forming opinions" on campus. 
In his closing words, O'Meara said, "I have had enormous fun and respect working with the 

Future 
continued from page 1 
concentration director Kathleen Biddick believes it is more than just the Catholic environment which prohibits certain students from reporting sexual harassment. 
"In order to prevent more se­rious incidences of harassment, ternational, Pax Christi, and Student Government who had little tangible connection to GLND/SMC were extremely sup­portive, he says. 
In addition to student sup­port, Blandford says University handling of the issue helped focus the debate in GLND/SMC's favor. By linking the decision to exclude GLND/SMC from campus with their unrecognized status, the group had an issue "thrust upon" them, he says. 
"It forced us to pursue recog­nition when at that time it was­n't our primary intent," he says. 
"We're fortunate that Notre Dame stumbled into this poli­cy." 
Despite all the national atten­tion, the University did not grant GLND/SMC official recog­nition and Blandford finds that frustrating. 
"We're the best folks to (sup­port gays and lesbians on this campus) because we've already been doing it." 
And despite the blows his or­ganization has been dealt, Blandford sees several positive aspects of the GLND/SMC con­troversy. 
"There's now an ongoing de­bate on several levels. And I 
faculty." 
Before the meeting was ad­journed, the Senate unani­mously passed a resolution honoring O'Meara, who has been a member of the Notre Dame faculty since 1962. The Senate acknowledged "with profound appreciation the gen­erous and extraordinary ser­vice" O'Meara gave Notre Dame for more than three decades. 
The Senate (urther resolved that it extend to O'Meara and his wife, Jean, "its warmest and best wishes for continued per­sonal happiness and fulfillment in the years ahead." 
O'Meara has been a Howard 
J. Kenna Professor of mathe­matics since 1976 and twice chair of the Department of Mathematics since 1978. 
we need to change the envi­ronment for women," Biddick said. "Advances in relations start in the everyday class­room. We have an environ­ment in which misogynist state­ments are made, and women learn to accept it rather than challenge it." 
Tomorrow, The Observer ex­amines the sexual harassment policies and procedures at other institutions of higher learning. 
KEEP AN EYE OUT FOR THE 

think that this campus is more aware of the needs of gay and lesbian students than other campuses might be." 
That debate currently centers on the activities of the Ad Hoc Committee and Gay and Les­bian Student Needs, O'Hara's commission charged with de­veloping a policy for the Uni­versity. 
While he is cautiously opti­mistic in awaiting the commit­tee's final report, Blandford says their initial work has been encouraging. 
"They've written that the lives of gay and lesbian students here at Notre Dame are quite difficult and often quite incred­ible. They've also written that Notre Dame hasn't been there for those students. They've said that GLND/SMC has been a prime source for support for gays and lesbians at Notre Dame," he says. 
What· happens next is any­body's guess. 
"Where this all comes out ul­timately, we all have to wait and see," he says. 
O'Hara declined interviews for this story, saying she would rather not comment until the Ad Hoc committee has pre­sented her with its report. That report is due in March. 
He has "played an important role in deliberations that have chartered Notre Dame's future academic course through his membership on the Committee on University Priorities in the early 1970's, his chairing of the Priorities and Commitments for Excellence Committee in the early 1980's, and his chairing of the Committee on Academic Life of the Colloquy for the Year 2000 in the early 1990's," the resolution said. 
O'Meara's credits include the 1988 Marianist Award from the University of Dayton as "a Ro­man Catholic distinguished for achievement in scholarship and the intellectual life." 
At the end of the meeting, the Senate gave O'Meara a stand­ing ovation. 

Spy agency uncovers big bucks in its books 
By JOHN DIAMOND Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
The Senate Intelligence Committee will consider making the nation's spy budgets public and giving the CIA chief greater authority following a report that a spy satellite agency kept $2 billion in unspent funds. 
Sen. Arlen Specter, R-Pa., the Intelligence Committee's chair­man, said Tuesday he and the panel's vice chairman, Sen. Bob Kerrey, D-Neb., are considering legislation that would end the long practice of keeping the budgets of the CIA and other spy agencies secret. In addition, the panel will look at proposals by CIA Director John Deutch to increase the'director's power over some of the various intelli­gence-gathering agencies. 
"The more [ see of this the more it becomes apparent that there is no solid reason for that secrecy," Specter said. "It is in the context of public disclosure and media attention that we re­ally figure out what is going on." 
"We're going to have to make some structural changes to give the director of central intelli­gence more authority over the whole intelligence community, including the NRO," Specter said. 
x~~.9~· ~ "~~x: 
~~ ~~ ~%! 

~ THE UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME ~~·~· clPx DEPARTMENT OF MUSIC PRESENTS X. ~ . 
GUEST ARnST SERIES . 
t ! 
• I 
: i
0 • ! c Tif !•
P7JRENTANO I STRING QUARTET 
! 
! 
a 
i 

0 ii 2:00p.m. i0 Sunday, February 4, 1996 
i Annenburg Auditorium 
d 

'X The Snite Museum of Art 'X~ 
~ ~-l ~
i
~~ S.'i Genenl Admission; 52 Sludeni/Senior ~~~ 
~~~~---~amdPx. 
Mass on the Feast of 
The Presentation of The Lord 
''Candlemas'' 
5:00pm 
Thursday, February 1 Basilica of The Sacred Heart All Welcome! 

(tMPUSMINISTRY 
Bring New Candles to be Blessed 
Wednesday, January 31, 1996 The Observer· INTERNATIONAL NEWS page 7 
• 80SNIA..HERZEGOVINA • COLOMBIA 
Warlords target refugee aid 
By SAMIR KRILIC 
Associated Press 
BOSNIA-HEHZEGOVINA 

Put out of work by peace, warlords in this small northern Bosnian town are trying out a new career: muscling in on humanitarian aid. 
This weekend, arsonists torched a tent camp set up by a German aid group 12 miles southwest of Tuzla. Nine of the 12 tents were burned to the ground, leaving 160 refugees­mostly women and children ­homeless. 
Uwe Breininger, director of I>Hutsclw llumanitaerp, Stiftung opp,rations in Bosnia, blamed Muslim warlords who no longer have a cause. 
lie said his group might abandon its mission in Bosnia if authorities don't crack down on the gangsters and give the camp protection. lie also asked police to secure DI!S ware­houses and oflices. 
"They have to help us help them," he said, standing amid piles of charred clothes and mattresses. "It is now up to the Bosnian government to show that it is a democratic country." 
Breininger said local militia­men have threatened DHS workers, and have insisted on helping administer the aid, which Breininger says is their way of asking for a cut of the action. Breininger would not specify the source of the threats, and no arrests have been made in the fire. 
In addition to seeking ready cash, the warlords are anxious to maintain their influence now that the peace, brokered last fall in Dayton, Ohio, is in place. 
The peace faces not only challenges from continuing eth­nie tensions, but economic strains as well. Troops return­ing horne have been told that the jobs they once held in fac­tories and on farms leveled by the fighting are gone. 
Bosnian leaders are hoping European economic assistance will help create jobs and kick­start the shattered economy ­which is operating at 5 percent of its pre-war capacity -but economists don't expect to see signs of real recovery until the next decade. 
Muscling in on refugee aid is nothing new in Bosnia. During the war, militia leaders in Serb­held Bosnia often demanded a cut of aid deliveries for their troops -and occasionally sim­ply commandeered vehicles. 
Hut the Banovici tensions are the first known incident of war­lords trying to get a cut of peacetime aid. 
Early Saturday, three men were seen walking along the camp's perimeter. Minutes later, the tents were ablaze. 
Hamiza Mujkic, 27, was asleep in the tent she and her three children shared with 17 others when she was awakened by screaming. 
"When I realized there was a fire I panicked," said M ujkic, swaddling her 10-month-old son, Hamo. "Children were cry­ing. Women were shouting. The whole camp was running up and down." 
Breininger and five col­leagues braved the flames with fire extinguishers, but "there was nothing we could do," he said. "Flames were tens of meters high." 
The aid group has rented rooms in neighboring houses for the homeless refugees, and estimated damage at $68,000. But aid workers said the dam­age suffered by the refugees runs deeper. 
"We had these people laugh­ing again after a long time," said Charles Minor. 
Mujkic, weeping as she cra­dled her son, said the destruc-
D Bosnian government­Groat federation 

Flags denote nation leading NATO force in the region. 
@Leaders of the three ethnic groups are meeting to discuss ways to run the country in peace. 
~Hundreds of Muslim Bosnians attacked the Red Cross and U.N. offices, demanding the world find out what happened to the thousands of missing Muslims. 
~ NATO soldiers recovered the bodies of three British servicemen killed on Sunday. 
APNim. J. Castello 

tion of her tent was harder to bear than when her house was destroyed by Serbs during the war. 
"I had just started to live a life again," she said. 
The tent camp had been well organized and comfortable. Each family had a room of its own within the tents; each refugee was allocated six square yards of living space. In addition, the aid group had built a kitchen tent and a con­crete house with bathrooms and showers. 
On Monday, several men tried to repair what remained of the kitchen. Cans of food, vegeta­bles and pans lay in soot. Children rummaged through debris trying to find their toys. 
The refugees prayed that the warlords' tactics won't drive away the aid workers -espe­cially Breininger. 

President convenes 
session of Congress 
By CHRIS TORCHIA 
Associated Press 
BOGOTA, Colombia 
Clinging to power, President Ernesto Samper convened a special session of Congress on Tuesday to try to rally support. Opposition lawmakers accused him of trying to dodge justice. 
Samper is defying demands that he step down over mount­ing evidence that he won office with drug money. casting Colombia into a crisis severely testing its democratic institu­tions. 
He appealed to Congress to investigate him immediately, telling lawmakers ''I'm not pre­pared to negotiate my inno­cence." 
But in his strongest admission yet that his campaign was taint­ed, Samper said it was impor­tant that Congress establish "who, when and using what channels contaminated it." 
The president denies he so­licited millions of dollars from the Cali drug cartel during his 1994 campaign, and called Congress back from a three­month recess to speak to legis­lators. 
During his half-hour, na­tionally televised speech, Sam­per said death threats against him and his family had intensi­fied in recent days, and he cited a September attack on his lawyer in which two body­guards were killed. 
He said the international press had portrayed him as "nothing Jess than a criminal." 
"The day that we accept that verdicts can be reached outside the halls of justice, we're re­turning to lynching without the right to be heard," Samper said with emotion, putting his hand to his heart at one point. 
After his speech, legislators loyal to Samper gave him a five-minute standing ovation. But an opposition congressman sat with his back to the presi­dent during the entire session. 
Outside, about 1,500 support­ers marched carrying Samper campaign signs and Colombian flags and shouting "Workers with Sam per." 
Maria Izquierdo, a Liberal senator and former Samper 
aide who has admitted taking drug money for the campaign, gave a passionate speech after the president, calling him a liar. She held up what she said were campaign receipts incriminating him. 
A panel loaded with political supporters absolved Samper in December, saying there was not enough evidence to prove the charges. 
A new probe could be opened if government prosecutors pro­vide new evidence. 
"We'll take part in a trial, but not a debate that leads to noth­ing," said Sen. Jaime Arias, president of the opposition Con­servative Party. 
Evidence likely would come largely from the former cam­paign manager, Fernando Botero, who brought on the cri­sis last week by saying Samper knew about the contributions from the world's biggest cocaine gang. 
Following the revelations, a dozen ministers and ambas­sadors quit in protest, and stu­dents, housewives and veterans took to the streets to demand that Samper resign. 
Prosecutors are still inter­viewing Botero, and it could be days before they give his testi­mony to lawmakers. Only Congress can judge the presi­dent. 
Even if Samper resigns, it is not clear what impact his de­parture would have on efforts to stop Colombia's powerful drug traffickers from corrupt­ing Colombia's leadership. 
U.S. officials insist traffickers must get stiffer sentences and have their property seized for any hope of permanent change. 
"It took Colombia 15 to 20 years to get where it is with such rampant corruption, and it will take 15 to 20 (more) years to bring narcotics traf­ficking down so that it is no longer an overbearing issue in our bilateral relations," U.S. Ambassador Myles Frechette said Tuesday. 
Many Colombians believe the evidence is now so overwhelm­ing that Congress, shaken by a probe of drug corruption within its ranks, will have to rule against the president. 

page8 The Observer • INTERNATIONAL NEWS Wednesday, January 31, 1996 
• ITALY • EGYPT 

Opera house ruined by fire 
By DANIEL}. WAKIN 
Associated Press 
VENICE, Italy 
La Fenice, the 204-year-old opera house that premiered Verdi's "Rigoletto" and "La Traviata," is nothing but charred remains today. 
Hundreds of onlookers watched Monday night as flames devoured one of Italy's great art institutes, sending sections of the building crash­ing to the ground. 
The theater, a few blocks from St. Mark's Square, closed in August for repairs and was to reopen in March with a per­formance of Mozart's "Don Giovanni" and a jazz concert by Woody Allen. Officials said some of the work involved in­stalling a fire-prevention sys­tem. 
Smoke continued to pour from the opera house's marble facade today. Charred beams leaned at crazy angles against the interior shell. Fire hoses snaked along the alleyways from nearby canals. 
"I'm devastated," tenor Lu­ciano Pavarotti told RAI state television. "It really was a jewel of Italy." 
The opera house's 1,500-seat interior was adorned with painted panels, gold leaf and sculpted stucco ornaments; it had undergone several renova­tions in the 19th and 20th cen­turies. 
Authorities did not immedi­ately say what might have caused the fire. Newspapers speculated that a short-circuit may have set off the blaze. 
Mayor Massimo Cacciari said work was being done on the electrical system on an upper level, where the fire is believed to have broken out. 
He also said the old fire pro­tection system had been deacti­vated while a new one was be­ing installed. A lone watchman, who survived unharmed, was the only defense. 
"The surveillance wasn't enough," the mayor told a news conference today. But "there 
Tax info, 
toll-free. 
Tax questions? 
Call TeleTax 
for recorded 
information 
on about 
150 tax topics, 
24 hours a day. 

couldn't be a guard for every room and every box of La Fenice." 
A slightly injured firefighter was the only casualty. The opera house's artistic company was in Warsaw at the start of an international tour. It immediately returned to inspect the devastated theater near the Grand Canal. 
A police patrol reported see­ing smoke around 9 p.m. Mon­day. A stiff wind fanned the flames, and the fire quickly en­veloped the building. 
Acrid columns of smoke rose above the city and red flames were visible across town.­Booms rang out as pieces of the building collapsed. 
Firefighters had to pump water to the scene from a dis­tance because some canals near La Fenice had been drained for cleaning. People were .evacuated from nearby houses, and a helicopter dropped flame retardant. The blaze was not declared under control until 5 a.m. 
"We've lost the best thing in Venice," said Albino Strighetta, a gondolier. "The people·of Venice are completely demoral­ized." 
Italy's ANSA new agency said the fire also apparently de­stroyed important archival documents, scores and a por­trait of the late diva Maria Callas. 
The disaster came at what was to be a joyous time for the opera world in Italy, which in­vented the form. Puccini's "La Boheme" will be performed with fanfare at the Turin Opera house on Thursday, exactly 100 years after its premiere in the same theater. 
Fires have plagued La Fenice throughout its history. Even before it opened in 
Free Pregnancy Test Referrals to Support Agencies Confidential Counseling 

Call 234-0363 
(24 hours} 

SOUTH BEND 
417 N. St. Louis Blvd. 
(Convenient to Campus) 
Excavators discover pyramid under museum 
By DALIA BALIGH 
Associated Press 
SAQQARA, Egypt 
The Egyptian government ordered the removal of an un­finished museum Tuesday after archaeologists realized it was being built on top of a 2,700­year-old cemetery. 
"We started to excavate around the site and we discov­ered archaeological artifacts such as mummies," said Zahi Hawass, the antiquities director at Giza and Saqqara. "The ar­chaeological artifacts that have been found are enough to stop this building." 
The site is near the 4,600­year-old step pyramid at Saqqara, the first step pyramid and a lesser cousin to the Great Giza pyramids. 
Egyptian archaeologists feared the museum would clut­t(n the landscape near the pyramid, which is 19 miles south of Cairo, and could de­stroy undiscovered ruins and artifacts. 
Workers recently uncovered burial grounds next to the museum's pillars as well as black mud brick walls that sur­rounded the cemetery and Greco-Homan funeral masks and pottery. 
On Tuesday, boys carried 
sand from excavation sites near the museum's scaffolding­encased concrete pillars. Pot­tery, some dating to before 500 B.C., dotted the area. 
Even as Culture Minister Farouk Hosni announced the decision, workers found a clay coffin with a child's skeleton inside. 
"We will remove the build­ing," he told reporters near the pyramid. He said the museum would be built nearby. 
The museum will house Pharaonic relics found in the Saqqara desert and a model version of the step pyramid and ruins that surrounded it. 
The project was approved in 1990 by the Higher Council for Antiquities on the condition it be built underground, and that the area be checked for remains before construction began. 
Hosni said an investigation would determine why those conditions were not met. The government halted construction a month ago after having spent nearly $18,000. 
The museum's pillars were raised just 550 yards away from the pyramid, and officials in the area discovered the building was more than three feet higher than it was sup­posed to be. 
Celebrate a friend's birthday with a special Observer ad .. 
BREAK 
otre 
ame  
ncounter  
A WEEKEND  ..-~·  
RETREAT EXPERIENCE  
GUIDED BY  
STUDENTS, FACULTY &  
STAFF  
An opporlunlly, In dlalogu• wllh olht!rl, lo deepen  
your undent1ndlng or younell, your Vlluu, your  
U!!lallonshlp with Christ, your •IIP8IIene• or Chrllllan  
comrnunlly 1ni:l nrvlel.  
RETREAT DATES:  MARCH 1 -3, 1996  
FORMS  
AVAILABLE:  January 29-February 2  
SIGN UP DEADLINE:  Before 4:00 p.m. -February 2  
CONTACT:  Campus Ministry Office  
103 Hesburgh Library  
631-7800  
COST:  $25.00  
rn Ulllllllllllllllllllfi11•,  ....  ·•ri!!ll!lli!!UO!I!!IID ffi  

AP 1792, fire slowed La Fenice's construction, and again in 1836, it was scarred by flames. But true to its name -which translates as "the phoenix"­the opera house has returned to" life each time. "Let's hope this bird rises again from the ashes," Pavarotti told RAI. But given Italy's strapped fi­nances, the prospects were not bright for a fast restoration this time. News media quoted offi­cials as saying damage could be as high as $190 million. The government announced it would immediately turn over $12.5 million for repairs. 


-
VIEWPOINT 
Wednesday, January 31, 1996 
THE OBSERVER 
NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 .SAINT MARY'S OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Noue Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1995-96 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief john Lucas Managing Editor Business Manager Suzanne Fry Joseph Riley 
News Editor ................................ David Tyler Advenising Manager ........................... john Potter Viewpoint Editor..................Michad O'Hara Ad Design Manager ...................... Jen Mackowiak Spon• F.ditor ............................. Mike Norbut Production Manager .................. Jacqueline Moser Accent Editor ......................... Krista Nanntry Systems Manager ........................... ,Sean Gallavan Saint Mary's Editor ................... :Patti Carson Obsetver Marketing Director.......... Pete Coleman Controller ............................................. Eric Lorge 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. h does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administra­tion of dther institution. The n~s is reported as a.ccurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned edi­wrials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, leucrs and lnsiJe Columns present the views of the authors, and nm necessarily those of Tht' Ohst'rver. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notrt' Dame/Saint Mary's com­munity and. to all readers. The frt.-c expression of varying opinions through leners is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 
Editor-in-Chief 63 I -4542 Business Office 631-5313 Managing Editor/Viewpoint 631-4541 Advertising 631-6900/8840 Sports 631-4543 Systems/Marktting Dept. 631-8839 Nt'ws/Photo 631-5323 Office Manager 631-7471 Accent/Saint Mary's 631-4540 Fax 631-6927 Day Editor/Production 631-5303 Viewpoint E-Mail Viewpoint.! @nd.edu Gcnt'tal Information 631-7471 Ad E-Mail observer@darw\n.cc.nd.edu 

• IN MY NEIGHBORHOOD 
Moral laws transcend the legal when it comes to abortion 
I believe that there are just some lions or their troubles. All he knows is When I was about thirteen or four-for those women who have had abor­things we, as humans, should not do that he is here and his parents are teen, I used to know this girl who went tions in the name of birth control is according to God. We who proclaim to happy that he is. to my parent's church. She had to be gone. C'mon now, use a condom or get be followers of God. must unfailingly These two people could have easily about seventeen or eighteen and her on the pill. abide by His words. decided to termi­reputation of being a bedhopper pre-There is also another side of this abor­One of these things is nate the pregnan­ceeded her. There really isn't any other tion issue. A friend of my sister was murder. Let's first cy. They could discrete way to put it. pregnant and she was 
make a differentia­have easily decid­She used to brag about ------------hesitant about having the tion between murder ed that their edu­her sex life and her baby. But as the weeks and killing in self­Cristiane cations were more various conquests to 'Maybe I am too went she became more defense. Once that is important. They our little group of harsh, but how and more expectant and made, let me make could have decid­younger teens. One realized that there was my formal stance Likely ed that the time she told us that can anyone kill a little indeed room in her life for against abortion in responsibility of she had had two abor-baby. If anyone has ever another child (as she all cases except when raising a child tions, because she already had a three year-the life of the mother wasn't what they wasn't ready to have a held a sleeping baby in old-daughter). Dming is in danger. wanted at that child and she wanted their arms and looked one of her pre-natal visits Heeently a group of our peers travelled time in their lives. They could have to go to college. I to the doctor she to Washington, D.C. to march against decided to have an abortion, they could thought she was crazy, into its innocent eyes expressed to her how she legalized abortion. I think this is one of have decided to kill that baby, but they and went about my then you know what I had experienced abdomi­the few noble eauses left in this world. didn't, and now after looking at his way. Today she is mean.' nal pains and upon fur-The defense of the defenseless is some­beautiful face, they don't know how they married and has a son ther testing she discov­thing in my opinion. we should all do could live without him. who's about a year ered that she had a tubu­something about. Situations like this happen all over the old. She never went to latory (l think that's what The Father: Eighteen country and, because of college and has since dedicated her life they're called) pregnancy and she had to y<lars old and a high various circumstances to the Pro-Life cause. I talked to her terminate the pregnancy because her sehool senior. He plays and shortcomings, a about it and she told me that not a day life was in serious danger. Now I can football and because of 'Mygrandmother baby is born to unpre­goes by that she doesn't think about the understand that, and I don't think you that success he is highly told me 'if you pared parents, and fam­children she literally killed because of will be condemned for doing that, espe­recruited nationwide. ilies. Because two peo­her own selfish needs. She told me how cially when you already have a family
aren't ready to raise a
lie is young and rest­ple weren't thinking, or they would have been seven and eight that needs to be taken care of. less, black and bold, child, then you're not didn't recognize the years old now. She told how much she 1n all it's emotional significance, the strong and in love. The importance of eontra­regrets doing what she did. All she can issue of abortion is more than a legal
ready to have sex.' I
Mother: Twenty years ception, or better yet, do now is to talk to young pregnant one, it's an emotional and moral one. I old and a college stu­truly believe that to this abstinence, she gets women and hopefully educate them believe that the moral laws I submit to dent. She watches over pregnant and a lot of about alternative options to abortion transcend any legal ones, so I would
day. Once that sperm
her younger brothers confusion, heartache, and pray to God for forgiveness. personally never, ever have an abortion and sisters while her fertilizes that egg, it isn't and frustration come Maybe I am just too harsh, but how unless my life was in danger. I certainly mother is away at into the picture. can anyone kill a little baby. If anyone don't recommend it to anyone. I believe 
just about the woman 
S(~hool hoping to make a My grandmother told has ever held a sleeping baby in their anything that you do in life you have to better life for all of anymore, there's a life, me "if you aren't ready arms and looked into its innocent eyes answer for, so the best I can do is to tell them. She is hopeful that, because of your to raise a child, then then you know what I mean. If you have you what I believe to be morally right and passionate, a you're not ready to have ever seen a baby smile or crawl across and let you do as you please, because
actions, you created.' 
dreamer and a realist. sex." I truly believe that the floor how can you ever think about ultimately you won't have to answer to strong and in love. The to this day. Once that hurting her. Now I don't have any chil-me nor any other human being, only baby: Ten perfect little sperm fertilizes that egg, dren, but I have several nieces and God. fingers and ten perfect little toes. A it isn't just about the woman anymore, nephews one of whom was just recently helpless. yet magnificent baby boy born there's a life, that, because of your born. Now I haven't held him, or out of their love, born into incertainty. actions, you created. And I feel despite touched him nor looked in his eyes, but Cristiane Likely is a senior living in He does not know what surrounds him. what other grand ambitions you have, just knowing that he's there and hearing Pasquerilla West Hall. She can be lie cannot tell what his future holds. He you have a life that you're responsible him cry over the phone fills me with reached over e-mail at know nothing of his parents expecta-for. such joy that any sliver of understanding clikely@artin. nd. edu 
.-------------------------,
GARRY TRUDEAU 
• QUOTE OF THE DAY
• DOONESBURY 
f:JTEVC fORBESOfAT5 UP A5 I UNI?E:I<5TANO IT, 50 '>OU'RE. PROP05/N6A PLAN THE. FARMER. 8E.NS... 7HAT IAJIU/NCReASEMY TAXES
YOU WANT A /?AT& OF 
BYHUNPRE/?5 a= WLLARS17%. BUT t</E aJ~­
aJUL, a£'V& BEEN /J.JHIL-& f?E{)UCING YaJRS BY
R&Nll.Y PAY \. 
/J.JANT/NG 70 KNOW MilLION$? 6 7HAT RIGHT? 
"pray for the dead and
ONL-Y !5'/.l
A80UT lH/5 RAT 

· fight like hell for the liv­
7AX OF YOIJ~ ... 

ing!" 
-Mother Mary Harris Jones 
page 10 Wednesday, January 31, 1996 
r ACCENT 
The Battle of the 
Students find various ways to cope with premature 
By LYNN BAUWENS 
Accent Writer 
M
ost people dislike their ID pictures taken 
freshmen year. For Matt, showing his ID 
card is traumatic and looking at pictures from his first fall on campus is an equally emo­tional experience. 
"If I look at my ID and pictures from freshmen year, I cry," the junior said. "I was fme in high school-I don't know where my hair went. I like to blame it on the engineering program." 
Matt's experience is similar to that of other college-aged males prone to hair loss. This male pattern baldness typically sets in with the increased levels of stress during the college years. 
Hair loss has many causes including infections, drugs, diseases, diet, stress and other factors. In almost 95 percent of the cases, it is a result of genetic predisposition. 
The condition named androgenetic alopecia is caused by androgen a male hormone, but it usually runs through the maternal side of the family. For example, if a man's moth­er's father lost his hair, it is more likely that he will. 
Researchers believe that in some peo­ple hair follicles begin to produce the enzyme 5-alpha-reductase. This con­verts testosterone ir. the blood into dihy­drotestosterone (DHT) which attacks the follicles. 
In men, this usually causes hair loss along the hair line or the crown, or both. For women, it is more likely to be a thinning of the hair all over the scalp since women produce an enzyme that can lessen the effects of DHT. 
The treatment for hair loss has been a booming business in recent years. Products on the market claim to trigger regrowth and prevent future loss. The advertisements guarantee satisfaction with 
will insurance cover the expense. The health center on campus has approved several prescriptions for students. 
"We do carry it for patients, but not extensive­ly," said Nafe. "We are a health center and carry medications to treat illnesses, not for cosmetic reasons." 
In her opinion, the costs far outweigh any ben­efits that may be received. '~They are holding out 
options including Rogaine. 
Mark went to see his doctor when he became concerned about the amount of hair that he was losing in the shower. The treatment does not guarantee new hair, but for some patients it has seemed to slowed additional loss. 
"I started (using Rogaine) the summer before sophomore year," said Mark, now a senior. "The doctors were skeptical if it would help. 
false hope for these ~~~~~~~~~; I haven't seen much change, but 
people. It is just a ~ 
way to m.~ke money, s h e s aid . 
~ 

the products, but the only product currently ,. licensed by the FDA to treat hair loss is · · Rogaine, available only by prescription and · 
manufactured by the Upjohn Company. The FDA is likely to soon approve topical solu­
• tions for over-the-counter use, according to Chris Nafe, pharmacist at the Student Health Center at Notre Dame. The main ingredient in these treatments is Minoxidil. It was discovered to cause hair growth in patients taking it orally to control blood pres­sure. When applied directly to the skin, it has been known to cause some regrowth and prevent future loss. The new hair is often downy and once application stops, the regrowth falls out. 
The benefits of the treatment is not unaccom­panied by side effects. These can include an itch­ing scalp and dryness, according to Nafe. The monetary costs are also high-it may run as high as $50 for a one month supply and very rarely "It's n o t worth t h e expense. Men losing their hair should accept it-some women find it attractive. Bald guys are sexy." 
For some students, the promise of even some improvement is enough to invest in treatment 
~~;~;i~~ot~hers have noticed. I believe 
that it has helped me. I don't use special shampoo-I just apply the Rogaine 
daily." He has not experienced 
any nega­tive side effects a n d 
thinks t h a t r<~~~~~~~~t h 
ment is worth the expense. 
It is more acceptable today for younger men to seek out treatment for male pat­tern baldness, according to Bill Bare, owner of the Hair Connection 
of Michiana. 
' 
"Our youngest client is 19 years old," he said. "It is more common for younger men to come in for evaluations since it is more acceptable today." 
The Hair Connectio11 er solution for those e: provide a non-surgica to the well-known Hail fitted with a custom I an evaluation. The p· scalp with surgical bl inserted strand by st, and required mainte looking hair line and ~ an active lifestyle incll ing. · 
Th_e majority of thf they do provide the ~ concerned about hair I 
There is quite a bit among those on carr Kilmartin, a hairstylist 
"They feel more con than with their friencf cern," she said. 
Kilmartin has her lence of hair loss on < that people wear to di' may be contributing to 
"The baseball caps falls off. Then the guy hair since it is usu Wearing the hat back the plastic band," she ation occurs with wo that break the hair." 
Kilmartin also thin stress, poor nutrition to the problem when hair properly. . 
She described a £e hands through her h ended up pulling it o The same thing may stantly push back thei 
While hair loss i! women, it is sometiffii Dame freshmen lost 1 grade and again in l1 alopecia areata, an affects each individu caused her to lose all 
"There are treatme are no cures," she sai Some of the hair h 
wears a full wig fitted "Every once in a change the style like g 
While many people to their hair unless it and others deal with i 
"It does affect me," good friends which · know when to tell pe just come up in con 

A closer look at the ava, 
Natural Hairs Shampoo 
What does it do? This shampoo claims to unclog the scalp with a 90 percent success rate. It is all-natural and therefore does not have to be registered with the FDA. According to Bruce, salesperson #518, "It's your hair back or your money back." Results claim to be seen within 4-6 weeks 
How much does it cost? Typically this shampoo and condi­tioner runs about $100 a month, but there are sometimes specials if bought in several month supplies. 
How to find out more: Call 1-800-449-3855 
Rogaine Topical Solutions 
What does it do? This solution when applied to the scalp has been known to stimulate some regrowth in patients. It is only approved now in a 2 percent solution but pharma­cists believe that stronger solutions will be available soon. It takes up to four months to see results and if stopped the new hair falls out. 
How much does it cost? A typical prescription can be $60 a month and it is not normally covered by insurance compa­nies. 
How to find out more: See your doctor or dermatologist. 
H 
What does it do? 
been advances in made them more r sure about more p 
How much does 
times up to $2500 nance costs. 
How to find out 
Michiana at 273-4 

r---------------------­
Wednesday, January 3I, I996 

Balding 
hair Joss and balding 
of Michiana otTers anoth­·periendng hair loss. They I hair replacement similar ·Club for Men. Clients are nadn hair prosthesis aftt~r ·osllwsis is affixed to the onding. The human hair ·and in to the membrane 11mee provides a natural llows wearers to maintain ding skiing and watflrski­
ir patients are men, but arne services for women oss. 
of concern about hair loss pus, aerording to Paula at University llairstylists. 
1d1mt talking about it here , but it is definitely a eon­
1wn thnory on the preva­
ampus. The baseball caps 
·guise a receding hair line 
the problem. 
lreak tlul hair and then it 
thinks that lw is losing the 
tlly along the hairline. 
wards is even worse with 
lXplainml. "The same situ­
wn who wear hair bands 
s that inrrnased levels of md bad watnr contributes people do not treat their 
1ale student who ran her 
Lir whiltl she studied and 
t in patches at the crown. 
1eeur with nwn who eon­
hangs. 
· much less common in lS just as severe. A Notre til of her hair in the fifth igh school as a result of autoimmune disnasn. It I differtlnlly. For Sarah, it f llw hair on her body. ts, but unfortunately there 
s rnturned, but she now to her !wad. hile, I gel a new one to r.tting a new haircut." 
I 
do not give much thought 
is a had hair day, Sarah . on a daily basis. she admitted. "I have had .akns it easier, but I don't 1ple that I mnet. It doesn't rersations. Anyone that I have ever told has been great and it's not an issue-I'm the one making the big deal about it." 
For men, the fear of losing their hair is not a main topic of conversation but it is an issue. 
"I tease my roommate about it occasionally," said Brian, a senior. "But usually it is not some­thing that we talk about. 
"Guys start losimg the hair on their head an they start growing it everywhere else," com­plained Bill, a sophomore. "It's not something that I stay up late at night worrying about, but it does make me nervous when a bunch of hair goes down the shower drain." 
William Kirk, Vice-President of Student Affairs, remembers that hair loss was a concern for men when he was a student. 
"I remember guys losing their hair in college and it was an issue," he said. "My father is bald and I think that I am slowly losing my hair and it's a vanity issue, but I'm not sure that I would 
' }don't like to think of it as a 
receeding hairline. I like to think of it as a proceeding forehead.' 
Tim, Senior 

do anything about it." Most of those experiencing hair loss at Notre Dame handle it with style. "They wear it short," said Kilmartin. "They don't try to pull it over." Others are in denial and sport the pulled over hair and baseball caps. 
"My roommate brushes his hair over and it looks horrendous," said Matt. "I would try to tell him tliat it looks worse, but he would never lis-· ten to me." 
For some, losing their hair doesn't mean losing their perspective. They are simply readjusting their attitudes about hair. 
"I don't like to think of it as a receding hair line," confessed Tim, a senior. "I like to think of it as a proceeding forehead." 
"I just keep it really short to disguise it," said .lefT, a senior. "People can probably tell that I am losing it, but it makes me feel better." 
Others have resigned themselves to the inevitable. 
"My position is that if it's going to go, it's going to go. I'll just cut it off-I'm not into the cosmetic thing," said Matt. "As long as the rest of me is in one piece, hair is probably the least of my wor­ries." 
The Balding 
Process 

It All Starts Here ... 
Burt Reynolds 
... Until The Brink Of Disaster... 
Bob Goldthwait 
... When Some ·Try To CompensateFor It ... 
David Crosby 
... And Some Try To Hide It... 
Michael Stipe 
... But The Be~t .Enjpy.The DIStiQUIS.hlng
Glow! 

Lou Gossett. Jr. 

ilable solutions 
~ir Pieces & Wigs 
This is pretty obvious, but there have 
he market for "thinking caps" that has 
aturallooking and attractive to those not 
rmanent solutions such as surgery. 
cost? These can be expensive-some­or as low as $800 plus periodic mainte­
ore: Call The Hair Connection of 
30. 
Hair Transplants 
What does it do? Operations are performs to cut holes in the scalp for hair transplants in minigrafts. Several sessions may be necessary and can be performed every few months. Dangers such as scarring and thinning of the donor area are things to consider. 
How much does it cost? The surgery may cost $3000 a session and most people need several sessions. 
How to find out more: See your doctor for more informa­tion. 
page II 
• ACCENT SPEAKS 
Watching the 
forehead grow 
H
air loss. 
Dan CichalskiTwo of the 
Accenr Copy Editor 
scariest words a man can hear. Probably the scariest words for Michael Bolton. Some of us are right at that age-or at least bordering on that age-when male pat­tern baldness can begin to rear its ugly head. HA HA!! Pardon the pun. But hair loss is just another one of life's nat­ural occurrences, like death and sappy songs from John Denver. 
I, however, do not fear it. Probably because I am Italian and, by law, do not suffer from a shortage of hair whatsoev­er. I've got a good head of hair that grows almost too fast and a loving moth­er and sister who constantly inform me when they think I need to get it cut. My mother has taken to calling me "Brillo Head" when it gets too long and I begin to look like Kevin Arnold in "The Wonder Years." 
I don't understand her reasoning and their consistent nagging will eventually result in my coming home from South Bend having not had a haircut in months. I'll show them. I'll go from the Harry Anderson in his "Night Court" days to the current one. in "Dave's World." And it'll make me a few Inches taller too. 
They say your maternal grandfather is the sole determiner of what fate awaits men in the hair department. Someday I hope to have a daughter who has a son just so I can be the one who gets to con­trol his hair genes as he gets older. 
The entire future of his head will be based on the life of mine. Anyway, Grandpa was a full-blooded Italian and a fully follicled individual so, based on this information, I'm set. I'll have a full head of hair uncontaminated by Hogaine or Monoxidil and without a transplant. Better yet, if I follow the patterns of other redheads, I won't exactly go gray but change over to an impressive white instead. 
Red's a good color for hair. It's rare and unique and only special selected persons are endowed with it. In my family it skipped two generations-com­ing from my mother's grandmother­and not only is my hair red but so is my sister's. 
I'll admit, though, that I would hate it when my sister and I would be out with my mother at the A & P and people would come up and tell her what lovely hair we had and ask where it came from. When strangers saw us with our dark-haired parents who show no signs of being able to produce redheaded chil­dren, they must have wondered if we were kidnapped. 
I don't mean to sound too superficial, but I wouldn't mind having the looks of. say, Sean Connery when I reach that age. Harrison Ford and Robert Redford also look good considering the years they have behind them. But there are some who represent baldness well. Like Patrick Stewart and Michael Jordan. And, of course, there will always be Telly Savalas and Mr. Clean, one in the same, to put in a good word for the fol­licly challenged. 
In my opinion, there really is nothing 
wrong with thinning hair. The problem 
arises when men try to hide It using one 
of several absolutely pitiful attempts at 
making people believe they are not los­
ing their hair. The most popular is the 
"Comb Over," in which a man will comb 
no more than ten strands of hair over an 
80 percent bald noggin to get that oh-so­
natural look you can only find on a bas­
ketball. 
Before I go find a big piece of wood to 
knock on, I encourage all of you to 
watch NBC's "Gulliver's Travels" coming 
up Sunday and consider the Herculean 
makeup job that must have been done 
on Ted Danson to convince us that he 
really could have hair down to his shoul­
der blades. 
page 12 The Observer· SPORTS Wednesday, January 31, 1996 
• COLLEGE BASKETBAll. 
Foul play involved in Hoosier's narrow victory 
By STEVE HERMAN 
Associated Press 
BLOOMINGTON, Ind. Indiana's best offense came with the clock stopped. 
The Hoosiers survived an eight-minute stretch without a field goal, scored 16 of their final 20 points from the free throw line and beat No. 16 Iowa 76-73 Tuesday night. 
"Our offense got real slow. We weren't cutting and moving like we were the first 28 min­utes of the game," said Brian Evans, who led Indiana with 25 points. "The last 12 minutes were standing, not really cut­ting and moving." 
Indiana's last six points came on free throws. For the game, the Hoosiers hit 24-of-35 foul shots to just 11-of-18 for the Hawkeyes. 
Indiana (12-8, 5-3 Big Ten) blew a 16-point lead as Iowa (15-5, 4-4) scored 10 straight points midway through the sec­ond half. The Hawkeyes even­tually closed the gap to one point, 74-73, with six seconds to go before Haris Mujezinovic and Andrae Patterson each hit one free throw for the Hoosiers. 
"It wasn't our game plan to get the ball to me and get fouled, but it kind of hap­
pened," said Mujezinovic, a 47 percent free throw shooter for the season. 
For the game, Mujezinovic hit 4-of-9 free throws. He missed his second foul shot with five seconds left, but Patterson rebounded the ball to set up his own free throw with less than one second left. 
"The part of this game that I'll pay the most attention to is that last 12 minutes, because we didn't get the kind of work on the backboards we've got to have and we got to slowing down things a little bit," Indiana coach Bob Knight said. 
"From my standpoint, as dis­appointed as I might be, with the fact that really 28 minutes of good play kind of slipped away from us, yet we did hang on and we got some things that we had to have," Knight said. 
A steal and fast-break dunk by Jess Settles brought the Hawkeyes to 62-59 before a basket by Indiana's Patterson. 
A 3-pointer by Andre Woolridge, who led Iowa with 19 points, cut the lead to two before Patterson hit two free throws and Evans got an off­balance hook to drop just as the shot clock expired. 
That was the Hoosiers' final field goal of the game. 

"They just stuck it to us so bad there in the early going it didn't even look we were going to even be in the game. But we just came battling back and try­ing to find a way to win coming down the stretch," Iowa coach Tom Davis said. 
"We were playing pretty well at the end of the first half. We looked like we had started to settle down. Our offensive num­bers were real good at half­time. It was that early surge that we just couldn't contain. They have some terrific shoot­ers and they're also good passers and good screeners. So they deserve a lot of credit for that. 
Settles, Kingsbury and Russ Millard each added 14 points for Iowa, which is 10-0 at home this season and 5-5 on the road. Patterson finished with 16 points for the lloosiers. 
Indiana, playing its fifth straight ranked opponent, used the 3-point shot to take its early lead against the Hawkeyes. 
Neil Reed and Evans each had two 3-pointers in the first six minutes, and Evans and Charlie Miller had one more apiece in the next four minutes as Indiana jumped ahead 30­18, hitting 11 of its first 15 shots. 

Courtesy of Indiana Sports Information Indiana head coach Bob Knight guided the Hoosiers to a 76-73 win over Iowa last night. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. 
Classifieds Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
ALASKA EMPLOYMENT­ X-RAY ROGER JIMMY  Where is "Uncle" Herb?  
....____N_o_T_Ic_E_s_  __.l  ILOST & FOUND I ._I_F_o_R_sAL_E_  __.  Students Needed! Fishing Industry. Earn up to $3,000-$6,000+ per  "A MUST SEE BAND" -Observer 4/95  Gee, I really miss Herb.  
month. Room and Board!  FRI 212 -CLUB 23  
International Film Festival  Found a unique 18K gold pin last  Pioneer AM/FM Stereo-Amp­ Transportation! Male or Female. No  SAT 213-BRIDGET'S  no joe. i won't go to your meeting.  
Coming Soon I  semester. Please write a full dis­ Receiver with Dual_ Tape Deck.  experience necessary. Call  CD ON SALE AT TRACKS-BUY IT!  love, krista  
Cushing Auditorium  cription to P.O.Box 111 NO, 46556.  100 Watts of tunesl Call John at  (206)971-3510 ext A55843  FOR MORE INFO -EMAIL  
"II Postino" Feb 4  232-2955 today!  XRayRJ@ aol.com  lucas, have a dr. pepper and relax  
"The Promise" Feb 5  MISSING: Long, forest green coat  Summer Camp Employment  X-RAY ROGER JIMMY  will ya? love, the annoying one who  
Montgomery Theatre  Last seen Thurs. 1/25 at  1984 FORD TEMPO  Minnesota co-ed summer recre­ still believes in constructive, interac­ 
"Tatie Danielle" Feb 6  Linebacker. Please call Kim at  5-spd manual transmission  ational camp seeks qualified indi­ Hey you:  tive office space  
"EI Mariachi" Feb 7  x4946.  96,000 miles, good heater, always  viduals to work as cabin counselors  Tri-Mil Ball: Neither Tri nor Mil nor  
"Like Water for Chocolate" Feb 8  dependable  $800  who can also instruct various activi­ Ball... discuss.  Tweedle dumb, where've you  
all movies at 7:30 ... $2.00  Are you missing a ski jacket?  Call Chris today at 271-02711  ties. Interviewer will be at SMC  been? talk to me. love tweedle dee.  
Found at Linebacker Thurs. 1/25.  Lemans on Feb.1 from 10-2 and at  SMC-ND 23RD ANNUAL SUMMER  
Call Kim x4946.  JUDAY CREEK gem.  NO O'Hara Lounge on Feb.2 from  PROGRAMS IN  Hey Aim and AI, I'm glad I ran  
DO YOU THINK YOUR BAND HAS  Well-maintained, 4-bedroom ranch  10-2.  LONDON (MAY 22-JUNE 21)  away. You girls are weird.  
WHAT IT TAKES?  HELP! Someone must of picked up  with a 17 x 25 home office  To apply contact Camp Foley, HCR  AND ROME (JUNE 16-JULY 15)  -Herb  
BATILE OF THE CAMPUS  my green, down winter coat Friday  & 3-car garage.  $154,900.  77 Box 172, Pine River, MN 56474  TRAVEL IN IRELAND, SCOTT,  
BANDS -THUR MAR 21 9-2 @  night after a party in 518 on acci­ Call Karen 272-3653.  218-543-6161 or email at sbf­ FR., GER., SWITZ., AND ITALY  I woke up this morning and looked  
BENEFIT FOR THE CENTER FOR  dent. It is waist length and 'las mit­ house@uslink.net  COURSES IN PHOTO., BUEC,  at the clock, it stared back at me,  
THE HOMELESS IF YOU WANT YOUR BAND TO  tens in the pockets along with some computer disks. If you did or know  TICKETS  ????????????????????  HIST., BIO., SOC., AND ITALIAN. MEETING FEB. 5, 7:00 PM CAR·  "tick-lock, tick-lock." I threw off the covers and jumped out of bed,  
PARTICIPATE-EMAIL  someone who found it, PLEASE  NEED A PLACE FOR THE SUM­ ROLL HALL (SMC)-INFO. CALL  heard a loud pop and off fell my  
XRayR.I@aol.com NOW FOR  call Mary at x1496. A.S.A.P.  KEENAN REVUE TIX -Will  MER? GREAT APARTMENT TO  DR. BLACK 284-4460/  head.  
DETAILS  Thank you.  exchange 4 Fri tix for 4 on Thurs or  SUBLET-TWO BATH, TWO BED­ 272-3729.  
Sat. Call x3842  ROOMS, ETC. AVAILABLE JUNE  To the smicker who came to the  
MISSING: Long, dark green L.L.  -AUGUST. CALL 273-1738.  Grab 'n Go Bags are coming!  party in Stanford 3W last Friday,  
Bean coat. Last seen Thurs, 1/25  Desperately need 1 St. John's GA.  ????????????????????  This is your chance to make a  bummed a cigarette and then stole  
NEED KEENAN REVUE TIX??  at the Linebacker. If you have it, or  Call Staph: 634-4638  difference and earn a special  my lighter. You're mean. Mean  
Sorry, can't help you there.  if you are missing a similar jacket-!  Computer Science student capable  bonus for the rest of the semester.  people suck.  
But you could go see ...  found a similar one the same  I NEED TO TRADE A PAIR OF  of programming excell. Earn a  Bags will be on sale in both  
• DEAD PRESIDENTS •  evening-please call Kim at x4946.  FRI. KEENEN REVIEW TICKETS  great reference for your resume  dining halls starting Jan. 31.  Hey, how did everybody like that  
8:00 and 10:30 Fri., Sat.  FOR A THURS. PAIR. IF INTER­ and Subway Subs for your time.  Brought to you by Lewis Hall.  Billy Joel "lecture" last night. (Too  
2:00Sun.  FOUND:  Dark green Columbia ski  ESTED CALL 4-1501.  Call 289-1288, ask for the General  bad you had to miss it, huh, crazy.)  
Cushing Aud. $2.00 ......................................  jacket. Found at Linebacker, 1/25. Please call Kim at x4946.  WANTED  Manager . Looking for a part-time babysitter,  yeah, well I'm having lots of cultural and enhancing experiences right here in good old South Bend.  Punxsutawney Phil's going to be a lonely character this year, but I'll be  
SPRING BREAK!  LOSTIIIII  very flexible with hours and days in  back soemday dammit.  
With only 1 week to live, DON'T  1.0. bracelet.  Says "Christopher".  ND/SMC/Holy Cross Students  my Granger home for 2 children  Next time you are in UP Mall go say  -Dom  
BLOW IT!  Reward for return.  Please call, sen­ PART-TIME WORK. 10.25/start  ages 1 and 3. If interested, call 273­ hi to Amy at Payless  
Organize group-TRAVEL FREE  timental value.  Call Chris @ 1662  Flexible hours around classes. All  2695.  Irish synchro rocks.  
Jamaica/Cancun $399 Bahamas  majors. Scholarships/Internships  Melissa,  Kick ass at SMU.  
$359 Florida $109  Lost: A green, Columbia Bugaboo  CALL 282-2357  CAMP EBIORHART, THREE  I can't go to your SYR, sorry ...  
FREE INFO packet. Call Sunsplash  Ski Jacket from the coat room at  RIVERS, MI.  leiuqoc  Hey Staph,  
1-800-426-7710  Senior Bar last Thusday night. It  WANTED: Good people to earn  LOOKING FOR MATURE, HARD­ I bet you'd thought we'd forget.  
had a purple, inner liner and a ski  money by becoming reps for  WORKING, RESPONSIBLE INDI­ Roses are red,  Sorry your night ended early on  
Anne Leap  lift ticket attached. I ended up with  EXCEL Telecommunications. Call  VIDUALS FOR OUTDOOR EDU­ Violets are blue,  Saturday, but I know you'll make up  
Word Processing Specialist  a very similar jacket that was hung  299-1999 evenings.  CATION PROGRAM. EXPERI­ Jen Hall is 21  for it sometime.  
Editing-General Correspondence­ near mine. If you have mine or  ENCE PREFERRED, (WILL TRAIN  she needs a shot or two  -Crazy Joe and Dom  
Proofreading-Business Documents­ want yours, please call Travis at  ATIENTION NOTRE DAME  HOWEVER). MID MARCH TO  
Academic Papers-Free Pick-up and  X2091.  WOMEN: City News Service is  JUNE. POTENTIAL FOR SUMMER  JENNIFER HALL,  Ali,  
Delivery  looking for morning newspaper car­ & FALL EMPLOYMENT. $140PW  JENNIFER HALL. ..  The spirit of Phil will live within you  
"Professional Results at Affordable  To whoever took our TROLL at  riers. Work less than 1 hr per day,  INCLUDING ROOM & BOARD.  LOOK FOR HER TONIGHT  even though you can't make the  
Prices"  Club 23 Sat. night:  make $421week. Must have bike.  CALL 616 244-5125  'CUZ SHE'LL BE HAVING A BALL  trip.  
(219)257-1766  PLEASE RETURN IT to the  Call Joe at 4-1680.  TODAY SHE'S LEGAL,  
Library Campus Ministry office!  IT'S CRAZY BUT TRUE  Till, Keep those blues away  
Cancun & Jamaica Spring Break Specials! 111% Lowest Price  Franxl -George and the Freaks  TEACH ENGLISH ABROAD-Make up to $25-$45/hr. teaching  PERSONAL  SO SHE NEEDS A SHOT­ESPECIALLY FROM YOU  Way to go Em -you ironed!  
Guarantee! 7 Nights Air & Hotel  basic conversational English  
From $4291 Save $100 On Food/Drinks! http://www.spring­ FOR RENT  abroad. Japan, Taiwan, and S. Korea. Many employers provide  0o0o0o0o0o0o0o0o0o0o0 QUALITY COPIES, QUICKL Yl!l  Theatre! Theatre! Cavanaugh Hall Players  I was just being friendly, I wasn't trying to be sexual.  
breaktravel.com  room & board + other benefits. No  THE COPY SHOP  presents:  
1-800-678-6386  BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY  teaching background or Asian lan­ LaFortune Student Center  LATER LIFE by A.A. Gurney  Do you think that heaven is that  
219-291-7153  guages required. For more informa­ Phone 631-COPY  Washington Hall, 211 ,2,3 at 8pm  crowded? I hope it's not like  
Spring Break! Panama City! 8 Days  tion call: (206) 971-3570 ext.  0o0o0o0o0o0o0o0o0o0o0  Tix $3 available only at door  Bridget's.  
Room With Kitchen $1191 Walk to  HOMES FOR RENT  J55842  Doors open at 7:30 pm  
Best Bars! 7 Nights In Key West  232-2595  ATIENTION MUSIC LOVERS:  B-Come back-The plants have died  
$259! Cocoa Beach Hilton (Great  NATIONAL PARKS HIRING­ Have you ever wanted to be on the  Meggan­ 
Beaches-Near Disney) $169!  1 BDRM IN 3-BDRM. HOME.  Positions are now available at  radio? Here's your chancel  Do you know what you and a Visa  
Day1ona $139! http://www.spring­ CLOSE TO CAMPUS. SAFE  National Parks, Forests & Wildlife  WSND-FM is looking for announc­ card have in common? You're both  he should've stuck the fork in me  
breaktravel.com.  NEIGHBORHOOD. USE OF ALL  Preserves. Excellent benefits +  ers to fill various classical shifts.  everywhere I want to be. P.S.  
UTILITIES. $300/MO. CALL PAUL  bonuses! Call: 1-206-971-3620 ext.  No experience needed. Call Amy  Happy birthday a day late ... hope it  hey trouble, don't make too much  
1-800-678-6386  232-2794.  N55844  at631-7342 for more info.  was great.  on thursday  


Wednesday, January 31, 1996 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 13 

.. 
• ' 

---------------------. 
page 14 The Observer • SPORTS Wednesday, January 31, 1996 
• SUPER BOWL XXX 

Brown now cashing in on being in right place 
By JAIME ARON 
Associated Press 

DALLAS 
Once his football career is done, Larry Brown wants to be an actor. He has a college degree in theater, and he's still taking lessons. 
But Brown's career is far from being finished. In fact, it's just taking off. 
Brown began cashing in on his Super Bowl MVP award ­and practicing for his second career-on Tuesday by kick• ing off a stay in New York with an appearance on "The Late Show with David Letterman." 
On Wednesday, Brown will be on "CBS This Morning" and Conan O'Brien's late night show. Thursday, he'll do "Live­With Regis and Kathie Lee" in the morning then at night sit courtside for a Knicks-Magic game. 
Friday begins with a quick trip to Washington to be on Black Entertainment Television, followed by another promotion­al appearance in New York. 
He'll finally come home Saturday, unless other things­like possible visits with Jay Leno or Charles Grodin -come along. 
''I'm enjoying it," Brown said Wednesday in a telephone interview from his hotel room. ''I'm a real laid-back person, so I'm having fun but keeping it in context." 
Brown is so laid back that he hardly fits in the same locker room as Deion Sanders, Michael Irvin and other extra­extroverts. 
With Sanders playing oppo­site him at cornerback, Browm is not even the best-known player at his position on his team. 
And considering there's a successful NBA coach named Larry Brown, he's not even be the most famous person with his name. 
"I think people noticed me before, but now everybody 
does," Brown said. "I find it flattering. I'm not a guy who has an ego or lives for this, but I can enjoy it." 
Brown first made a name for himself in 1991, when he went from 12th-round draft pick to starter. He started on Super Bowl winners the next two years, then took harsh criticism when Dallas didn't three-peat in part because he was burned by Jerry Rice in last year's NFC title game. 
Brown was supposed to lose his job this season with the arrival of Sanders, but an injury to Kevin Smith kept him in the lineup. 
A bigger distraction than Deion, though, was the prema­ture birth of his son, Kristopher, who weighed only one pound at birth and lived less than three months. 
Good things began happening again for this good guy during the NFC title game when he made up for a first-quarter blunder with a game-saving interception. 

Then, in Sunday's Super Bowl, Brown had two in­terceptions and returned them for a record 77 yards. Both set up touchdowns. The first helped Dallas go ahead of Pittsburgh 20-7, and the second sealed the 27-17 final. 
For that effort, he was named the game's top star, as team­mates Troy Aikman and Emmitt Smith had been in previous 
Super Bowls.  
But 'they  were  no  help  
preparing  Brown  for  this  
avalanche of attention.  

"They did not warn me," Brown said, laughing. "It's been hitting me by storm." 
Brown's agent, meanwhile, is ready. He's been working since August to prepare his client Brown to be an unrestricted free agent, and he's sure Brown will be able to cash in on this success. 
"I felt like over a month ago Larry became the No. 1 UFA (unrestricted free agent) candi­date based on the things around him," Scott Casterline said. 
Casterline said he wouldn't be surprised if Brown can get a deal worth $3.2 million a year, as Eric Allen got from the New Orleans Saints last year. 
"This is even going to be bet­ter for him because he's going to be the top guy (on the mar­ket) and nobody else will be even close," Casterline said. 
For the first time in his career, Brown won't be dedi­cating his entire off-season to preparing for football. 
Instead, he's finally ready to carve out time for acting. 
Realizing he's in New York now and planning on spending lots of time on TV sets, Brown added: "I've got to take advan­tage of my opportunity. . .. Anybody can play an athlete. I'd like to do more challenging roles." 
For now, he'll just continue playing the role of Super Bowl MVP. 
•NBA 

Coaches reserve all-star spots for league veterans 
Associated Press was selected for the lOth time. be Cleveland's Terrell Brandon Payton and Sacramento's Mitch and Scottie Pippen of Chicago, 
It was the eighth time for both and Indiana's Reggie Miller at Richmond at guard, Denver's and guards Michael Jordan of 
NEW YORK Utah Jazz forward Malone and guard, Miami's Alonzo Dikembe Mutombo at center Chicago and Anfernee Hardway 
Centers Patrick Ewing and point guard Stockton. Robinson, Mourning at center, and and San Antonio's Sean Elliott of Orlando for the East. David Robinson, and Utah of the San Antonio Spurs, was Milwaukee's Vin Baker, at forward. The West starters will be cen­teammates Karl Malone and chosen for the seventh time. Charlotte's Glen Rice and Voting for reserves was done ter Hakeem Olajuwon of John Stockton were among 14 Milwaukee's Juwan Howard at by head coaches. Houston, forwards Charles players selected today as re­Joining Ewing as reserves on forward. Earlier, fans voted for the Barkley of Phoenix and Shawn serves for the NBA All-Star the East team for the 46th edi­Robinson, Malone and starters, picking center Kemp of Seattle, and guards game. tion of the game -to be played Stockton will be joined as West Shaquille O'Neal of Orlando, Clyde Drexler of Houston and 
The New York Knicks' Ewing Feb. 11 at San Antonio -will reserves by Seattle's Gary forwards Grant Hill of Detroit Jason Kidd of Dallas. 
\\ow the <\\-92<tttack<:, roalJJ. 
When it comes to math, it's sink or swim. Fortunately, weve found away to help you keep your head above water: the new pull-down menus, it's as Tl-92. It'll tear through statistics, crunch '--"-'-'~""-'--~ friendly as Flipper. To see calculus and rip algebra to shreds unlike any other calculator. Of course, the Tl-92 isn't just a piranha of •f(~J•x pond, try it out power. Wrt:h easy-to-read tPN+f!kf on the Internet. 
~TEXAS 
INSTRUMENTS 
lend e-mail to: a-cares®tr:com or calll-800-11-CARES. ©199511. 

See the new Tl-92 at: 

Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore 

Come to Late Night Olympics on Friday, February 2, and take part in the OPEN SKAJ'E event which is scheduled from 10:00 PM­Midnight. 
No advance sign-ups are necessary. The cost of Skate Rentals is $1.00 and all rental fees will be donated to Special Olympics. 
Friday~ February 2 
directed by Stanley Donen
7:00PM -4:00AM 
$2 Adults, Sl Students
Joyce Center 631-6100 
All LNO Meidl~' Were Donated by the Notre Dame.AlumniAssocintion 
~' 

Jamaica
SPRING BREAK 7 NIGHTS: 100% LOWEST PRICE GUARANTEE! 

A,r frt>m ~V,Jth tknd with 
*Pmm D.'troit, Clcvcllllld, Columbus. ln<limmpoli~ NY. IX:/Ilnlt. Ridunnml 
$489!
ALL-INCLUSIVE SPECIAL: 
1 Ni!}tit~ H<·WI. 5 Lunches Brmdul 
5 Breakfasts $35 Uc~nsul 
Db:nnr11~ 1mt'oo<l tt Drink (l)Vt,•r,;!
5 Dinners ln.mr~d 7 nights beverage party 
Bahamas 
Package Includes: Round trip airfare (Chic/KG add $20) 7 nights hotel accommodations 
Cruise
(quads), round trip transfers from airport to hotel, Surf & Sun Tours famous welcome party, FREE pool, beach and hottest night club parties, 24 hour American staff /~ 
$279! 
on-site, service charges, gratuities and hotel taxes. This is the best spring break deal anywhere! 
Don't be left in the cold•.. Call now. 
f847) 303-1010 


Wednesday, January 31, 1996 The Observer· SPORTS 
• SUPER BOWL XXX 
• SPORTS BRIEFS 
Women's Lacrosse: , Practice wiil be held Monday 
Keeping Dallas out of trouble 
By MELISSA WILLIAMS 
Associated Press 
DALLAS 

Police and educators will be taking extra stllps next week to deter violence or truancy when the city honors the Cowboys with a Super Bowl victory parade. 
Dallas Police Chief Ben Click said 800 officers will be assigned to parade duty. The proenssion is scheduled to be­gin at 2:30p.m. CST on Feb. 7. 
Members of the department's gang units also will wander through the erowd to identify gang members and keep them under surveillance to prevent a recurrence of the violence that marred the Super Bowl parade of 11J93. 
The Dallas school district is considnring allowing students to watch the "Dr Pepper Presents 'Dallas Salutes the Boys"' parade on televisions in class so they won't leave early. Classes end at 3 p.m. through­out the district. 

"We're working on some cre­ative ways and police will have officers out looking for tru­ants," said Hobert Hinkle, spokesman for Dallas schools. 
The downtown course will take the Vince Lombardi Trophy winners and their en­tourage south of Reunion Arena to Young Street and then to City Hall, which has been renamed "Cowboys Plaza." 
A committee planning the celebration earlier selected Feb. 5, 6 or 7 as possible dates, but left the final choice to the Cowboys. 
The team agreed to the cele­bration after defeating the Pittsburgh Steelers 27-17 
page 15 
advance in the RecSports office and the fee is $30.00. There will be an information session on Tuesday, Jan. 30 at 6:30 p.m. in Rockne Rm. 
219. Sign-ups begin Wed. Jan. 31 at 8:00 a.m. in the RecSports office. 
Cross Country Ski Clinics: RecSports will be sponsoring two clinics on Saturday, Feb. 
3. The clinics will be at 
10:00 a.m. and 12:30 p.m. The fee for the clinic is $5.00 with an additional $2.00 rental fee for the skis. Register in advance at RecSports. 
Mountain Biking Club: Meeting Feb. 8, 7:00 p.m. in LaFortune. All levels wel­come. Contact Patrick van den Broeke with questions 236-7266. 
Intercollegiate Bowling: Any students of Notre Dame or Saint Mary's who are interested in intercollegiate bowling competition, please contact Jason at 4x1065. 
Archery Mini-Course: RecSports will be sponsoring an Archery mini-course on Tuesday and Wednesday, February 6 & 7 from 7-9 p.m. The fee for the course is $8.00 and you must register in advance at RecSports. All equipment will be provided and space is limited. 
Drop-In Volleyball: RecSports will be sponsoring Drop-in volleyball every Tuesday night this semester. Play will be from 8-11 p.m. in the Joyce Center. Open to all Notre Dame students, faculty and staff. 
Have something to say? Use The Observer classifieds. 
Open Skate 

contact your Hall Representative or call RecSports at 1x6100. 
ESPN wiil be filming the Saint Mary's basketball game vs. Lake Forest (7 p.m.) on Tuesday, Feb. 6. There will be a pep rally before the game beginning at 6 p.m. Please come. and show your SMC spirit. 
Jazz Dance: A Jazz Dane class will be offered on Monday and Wednesday evenings from 6:30-7:45 in Rockne Rm. 219. All levels are welcome, but space is limited. You must register in Sunday in the Super Bowl at Tempe, Ariz. 
The parade will feature play­ers and cheerleaders on nine floats, marching bands and a float carrying the Super Bowl trophy. 
Police on horseback will escort the players' floats. 
The city will pay $100,000 toward the cost of this year's parade and corporate sponsors have ponied up $255,000. 
The excess above the original $271,000 projected tab will not go to reduce the city's share ­a fact criticized by City Councilman Paul Fielding. 
Instead, it will be spent on extras like decorative floats, banners, balloons and free pompons for fans along the pa­rade route, said Robert Shaw. a Dallas businessman who is leading the parade committee. 
and Wednesday at 10:15 pm at Loftus beginning January 
29. Mandatory informational meeting February 5 at 9:15 in the Notre Dame Room. tafortune. Questions, Call Allison 239-7924. 
Sho Rin Ryu Karate: 
Semester long course that . 
meets in Rockne Rm. 219 
Tuesdays and Thursdays 
from 6:00-7:30 PM starting 
Wednesday, January 31, You 
must register .in advance at 
RecSports and the fee is 
$15.00, A demonstration will 
be held Tuesday, January 30, 
at 6:30 PM in Rockne Rm. 
219. 

Late Night Olympics X: 
Late Night Olympics is sched­
uled for Friday, Feb. 2 from 
.7:00 p.m.·~ ??? at the Joyce Center. The proceeds from this all-night sports extrava­ganza go to benefit the St. Joseph County Special Olympics..( For information 


page 16 The Observer • SPORTS Wednesday, January 31, 1996 
•NBA 

Marketing the comeback of the Magic man 
Blackman agrees, saying, "He Muller added, though, "He 
didn't get this by falling down 

should be wearing the shoes on a Boy Scout expedition.
tonight." 

There are going to be people Given the tremendous good­who say, 'Hold on here ­
will in Los Angeles among fans did he obtain this horrible dis­who remember the Lakers' 
ease?'" "Showtime" glory days, region­He allows that some advertis­
al advertisers might find a ers might get aggressive and Johnson tie-in to be, well, break up their normal cam­
magic, marketing executives paigns with a one-shot spot. 
say. 

"If I was going to use MagicBut regional ads, "tools of the Johnson I would do it with a trade" ads for basketballs and 
SOPHOMORES!! 
Applications for the JPW 1997 Chairperson are available at the LaFortune Information Desk. 
Return completed applications to 
315 Lafortune, Student Activities 
Office. 

The deadline is Monday, February 5th. Sign up for an interview on February 6th or 7th Alumni Senior Club presents the when you turn in your applica ... 
ND concert ev~;nt of the year: tion. In regards to any questions, lNednesday, call Eric at 4 ...4274. January 31 
once-in-a-college-career event! 
.­
short, quick campaign ­maybe use him with another player welcoming him back," Blackman said. ''I'd run it for 30 days. That way, I minimize my risk." 
Johnson shows little interest in anything except longer-term promotional deals, though. 
"He won't do the one-shot things," Rosen says. If big advertisers get spooked, it will be nothing new. 
Nestle Chocolate and Confection Co. crushed a Johnson ad for Nestle Crunch after learning he had the AIDS virus. 
A spokeswoman said at the time the company feared Johnson, not the candy bar, would get the attention. 
The company with the longest endorsement ties to Johnson, sneaker maker Converse Inc., let his contract run out in 1994 without airing another com­mercial after the news broke. However, Johnson also had poi­soned the relationship by com­plaining publicly about Converse's marketing approach. 
And Miller Brewing Co., which had signed Johnson for a "Think When You Drink" pub­lic service spot, had second thoughts about the ad and doused it. 

By the first time Johnson "unretired," in a later aborted October 1992 comeback, he the Lakers in 1992. That come­dare hire him. was reduced to the second tier back fizzled before the season "Any celebrities that have a of endorsements: trading cards, started, with some NBA players negative associated with their sports memorabilia, a print ad complaining they might be name are less likely to be asked for a foodmaker with Larry exposed to AIDS. to represent a product," Burns Bird. David Burns of Burns Sports said. 
Pepsi-Cola Co., which also had Celebrity Service in Chicago "And AIDS is so complex. a long advertising relationship praises Johnson's energy in Even someone with curable with him, briefly revived a TV promoting AIDS relief causes, cancer, it's only the medical ad with fans shouting, "Go get but also thinks there's little companies that would be really 'em, Magic," when he rejoined chance many advertisers will interested." 

By E. SCOTT RECKARD 
Associated Press 

LOS ANGELES 
Magic Johnson has always been among the most popular superst~rs, but the stigma of the AIDS virus made him an advertising outcast. As he returns to the Lakers four years later, have times changed? 
Spalding Sports Worldwide, which has had Johnson under contract since 1980, stopped selling inexpensive rubber bas­ketballs with his name a year after he retired. 
It's considering making a $100-plus Johnson com­memorative ball, like those from All-Star Games, said John Doleva, Spalding's managing director for leisure products. A decision will wait until after Super Show, the sporting goods industry's biggest trade show, in Atlanta this weekend. 
And watch for Johnson's glee­ful smile and amiable patter to pop up in ads promoting his own line of bargain-priced sports shoes and apparel from MVP Sports. MVP, of which Johnson is part owner, will pre­view them Sunday at Super Show. 
Roberto Muller, a former Reebok International president whose marketing firm is work­ing for MVP, insists there's no connection between Johnson's return and the new products. A comeback was never mentioned when work on the product launch began half a year ago, he said. 
"One of the things you can absolutely count on is his hon­esty and credibility," Muller said Tuesday, hours before Johnson was to put on his Lakers uniform to play the Golden State Warriors. 
self-promotion are quite differ­ent from major campaigns for mainline companies. 
And while Johnson's agent, Lon Rosen, says some such offers are still coming in -he says Kodak wants to use Johnson in ads tied to the Olympics -most experts are skeptical about the prospects. 
"All except the most aggres­sive advertisers will stay away," says Marty Blackman at New York's Blackman & Raber, longtime consultants to adver­tising agencies and corpora­tions on sports personalities. "And certainly with the season so late we're not talking about anything soon." 
Michael Jordan returned to the NBA and eventually became as excellent a player as he was before he left. But big questions remain about Johnson's abili­ties in the National Basketball Association. 
He is 36 years old and 27 pounds over his former playing weight. He is switching from guard to power forward. 
And unless he returns to superstardom, count on cor­porate America to figure there are plenty of other players ­the Michaels, Hakeems and Shaquilles of the world -who make better endorsers without the prospect of offending mid­dle America. 
"It's not so much the issue of HIV and AIDS," said Stephen Disson, whose D&F Group in Washington, D.C., arranges sports tie-ins for clients like AT&T. Visa, Kodak and Marriott. 
"It's how Magic was so out­spoken about how promiscuous he was and all of his escapades. That just opens up a whole can of worms." 


The Observer/Mike Ruma Sophomore Derek Manner's strong defensive play has been a bright spot for the Irish of late. 
The Observer • SPORTS page 17 
Stor01 
continued from page 20 
The Irish struggled mightily from both the 3-point arc and the free throw line against the Mountaineers, hitting season lows in both categories. 
Solutions to both problems need to be found before the game with the Red Storm. 
"We had people who were wide open who did not get the basketball," said MacLeod. "We also need somebody else to become a consistent outside threat beside Ryan Hoover." 
·Pete Miller has shown some promise as that complementary player, but suffered through a miserable performance against West Virginia, missing all seven of his 3-point attempts. 
However, the disappearance of Hoover from recent second half stat sheets is also a con­cern for MacLeod. Against Miami, Hoover tallied only two points after the break, while all 11 of his points against the Mountaineers came in the first half. 
"Even with Hoover getting slowed down by an overplay (and they really sold out on him), we've got to do a better job of getting him the ball, be­cause he's really hot right now," said MacLeod. 
The Irish will need all the points they can get from Hoover to compete with the high scoring Red Storm. 
St. John's places three play­ers in double figures, headlined by sophomore sensations Zendon Hamilton (19.9 ppg, 
11.2 rpg) and Felipe Lopez 
(16.6 ppg). 
"Zendon is the leading offen­sive rebounder in the confer­ence, and they picked up an­other big, strong body, Mike Minniefield, at semester," said MacLeod. 
Keeping the Red Storm front court off the boards will be a key for the Irish, who turned in a stellar effort themselves with 23 offensive rebounds against West Virginia. However, inte­rior foul trouble, especially for Matt Gotsch and leading scorer Pat Garrity (17 .3 ppg), has been a problem. 
Such tactical difficulties, how­ever, can be corrected, and MacLeod is confident that his team's attitude will not need similar fine tuning. 
"This is a battling group," he said. "They will bounce back." 
Bowl 
continued from page 20 
that we have the potential to beat tlu~m. We just didn't show it out thnrn tonight." 
(~ruber's second goal of the night, with 1:54 remaining, pulled the Irish to within one of the Falcons. However, Bowling Green survived an offensive fury in the remaining minute to drop the Irish to 8-15-3 on the season. 
"Tonight was kind of indica-
Ski 
for 
tive of the type of season we've had," said Gruber. 
"We played pretty well, but it seemed that they wanted it a little more than we did. It's a shame that we couldn't pull it out especially with Jamie Ling getting the mark." 
Ling's special night ended with a hollow feeling, as the unwanted guests spoiled the Irish dinner party. 
Now the Irish will have to crash the party at Illinois­Chicago on Friday night in order to keep out of the cellar in the conference. 

February 3 
$25 includes lift ticket, round trip bus fare and ski equipment. Bus leaves from Mishawaka Outpost Sports at 2 pm. 
3602 N. Grape Road 428 Baldwin Street Mishawaka, IN Elkhart,IN (219)259-1 000 (219)262-4419 

JACC. 

The Observer/Brian Hardy 
Garry Gruber, who had two goals last night, shoots during Notre Dame's 4-3 loss to Bowling Green at the 

Watch for Notre Dame recruiting coverage in next week's Observer.  


The Women's Resource Committee of the Graduate Student Union presents 
0..1 K....."' ,,-·'~ lEf· iT~~· :\
-.~, IE..,....
~II ! "\;·( . K 1 I '\· k IU·
K_~ l._) ~~T .,d ~ 1 L ...) l...~ l['~ 
A listserv group for the discussion of gender issues at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's. All members of the ND/SMC community are welcome and encouraged to join. 
To subscribe, send an email message to: 
listserv@vma.cc.nd.edu 
Leave the subject line blank and include only one line in your message, as follows: 
subscribe ndgender<your_name> 
(You need only include your first and last name, as indicated. The program will read your email address from the header.) 
IIIII l:llllU Ill IIIEUFAIJ IEIIIJIY 
The Prrfrrrrd R,•glstry 
lllllrviiiiiOI'IIIII -·111'1¥111 ........
IIIIIIIIC IIIICIII m.r...-...: .I'W11r11Lf11111111
•
lilY It1111 ............wiiiiiVIIIMI 
To rrscrvr: 
Call (~19)?73 7003 • fiiX (?19)?/3-2q55 

-

-~­
page 18 The Observer • SPORTS Wednesday, January 31, 1996 
• SAINT MARY'S SWIMMING 
Belles rebound to split pair of meets 


If you see sports happening, call 
1-4543. 
I (J J'lf,IJ!iI 

STEAMBOAT VAIL/BEAVER CREEK HILTON HEAD ISLAND 
·PER P111S00 OEPE!IDIHG ON OESTIHATION 110(.\1( DATU llfllllMOF STAY. 
f.;.$00~ SIINC114S·E 
TOLL n55 1NFtli!W.T10N &. II&SSIVATIONS 
Please Recycle The Observer 
By LAURIE KELLEHER Sports Writer 

This past weekend the Saint Mary's swimming and diving team took on Kalamazoo College and University of Chicago. On Thursday they lost to Kalamazoo, but bounced back on Saturday by defeating Chicago, despite being short­handed. 
On Thursday, the Belles per­sonally improved from the pre­vious weekend. While they had many good races, the Belles could not defeat Kalamazoo who was stronger in numbers. 
"We all improved on our swims," said Shannon Kelleher. "We lost many people to ill­ness, injury, and travel. I'm glad that we held up as well as we did." 
Kelleher placed first in the 1000 freestyle and third in the 500 freestyle. Also strong in the distance events was Allison Smith winning both the 500 freestyle and the 400 IM. Betsy Wright placed fifth in her first 1000 freestyle and got a per­sonal best in the 500 freestyle. 
"I was afraid that I wouldn't finish," said Wright. "I was glad to see that I got a personal best time." 
Katie Rose placed second in the 400 IM and the 100 back. The Belles were also strong in the 200 freestyle with Sara Gillen placing second, Natalie Cheeseman placing third with a personal best time of 2:10, and Jen Mitchell placing fourth. 
Two days later the Belles de­feated the University of Chicago. 
Among the top finishers were Smith, Kelleher, Rose, Cheeseman, Wright, Mitchell, Allyssa Cameally, and Tara Thomas. 
The win was impressive be­cause of the relatively few swimmers at the meet and the grueling meet they had just two days earlier. 
This weekend the Belles will have their final dual meet be­fore Championships. 

-





page 19 

JEANE DIXON 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Stick to the tried-and-true when supervising subordinates. A good day for real estate transactions and landlord-tenant discussions. Your ideas receive a fair hearing. 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Your ESP tells you how to boost your social standing or recapture romance. Attending a VIP affair leads to surprising perks. Fulfill a work quota hefore pursuing plea· sure. Explain an unusual circum· stance to your mate. 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Your social contacts or membership in a professional organization help you reach a cherished goal. A finan· cial backer or VIP will pull impor­tant strings if you ask politely Avoid rushing into a ha~ty romantic commitment. 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21 ): Your financial future looks bright. Think about the long-range possibilities. Letting someone else take the helm of a time-consuming project may be a good idea. There i~ no way you can handle everything alone. 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): AI home and abroad, friend" go to bat for you. Meetings involving prominent people will result in a home run. Maintain your special rapport with a former employer. You may one day become business partners! 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18) Others recognize and applaud your abilities. Influential business and social acquaintances welcome you into their ranks. You will win even more admirers by remaining mod· est. Share the limelight with the deserving. Dine out tonight. 
PISCES (Feb. !')-March 20J You can cure a restless mood bv focusing on a major artistic projeci. Utilize your network or husine" contacts near and far -then reach for the stars! Spend the evening with a few close friends. 
The Saint Mary's Young Republicans Club is plan­ning _a trip to Washington D.C. to attend the Conservative Political Action Conference from Feb 22 to 24. Special group rates are avaliable for air fares and hotels. For information, call Denise Mills, President of Saint Mary's Young Republicans. at 284­4387. 
Post-graduate service opportunities will be offered by Capuchin Youth & Family Ministry at CSC today from 10:00-4:00 p.m. Apostolic Volunteers will also host pizza and general information session nt Pasquerilla East lounge at 9:30 p.m. 
Live on campus this July for academic credit, pay, and free room and board by becoming a Youth Leader for the National Youth Sports Program. Applications due by February 1 to Sue Cunningham in the Center for Social Concerns. For more information call 631­7867. 
•MENU 
Notre Dame 
North South 
..

Roast Top Sirloin Chicken Jambalaya 
of Beef Meatball Grinder Grilled Sole 
Stuffed Shells 
Potato Pancakes 
Saint Mary's 
London Broil w/Mushroom Gravy 
Chicken Primavera 
Lousiana Beans and Rice 
Wanted: Reporters, photographers and editors. Join The Observer staff. 
• 

'fOU. c.a.n't drziue a. ca.rz.... drziue a. Had orz drziue a. tjol~ 6a.lL, 6u.t '{ou. ca.H. 

drziue tM.t 

speciaL Wt1tllf. 
-

Sponsored by the Office of·Alcohol and Drug Education 

Wednesday, January 31, 1996 
The Observer • TODAY 
FOUR FOOD GROUPS OF THE APOCALYPSE DAVE KELLETT 

MISTER BOFFO 
DILBERT SCOTT ADAMS 
r--=~~~~~~~~~-,ur----------------------­
,. ,. 
0 z 50 '1'0U USED 
u 
0 ..i CODE FROM THE en " ,. PAYROLL
"' 
HERE':; A TIP: 

0 SYSTEM?
" 
DON'T FLY

... I 
" 
... 
0 
ON PIW DAY.

u 
en 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 35 Certain-navel 57 Actor Wallach 37 Prefix with 58 Table salt 
1 Austrian peaks center 59 Like Santa 5 "Get outta here!" 
38 Amatory poet Claus?
10 Drink of the ancients 39 This puzzle is &2 Miss Huber of 
14 Seldom seen 
missing some tennis 15 Eta-iota link 40 Hardware item 
&3 TV, radio and such
1& Oiler's target 41 D. D. E.'s rank 17 Foreman? 
64 Tantrum thrower 
42 Glorify 19 Refs" decisions &5Go by
43 Fresh 20 Cackleberry 66 Studio prop
44 Operational 21 Readyfor &7 Bill and Carrie 46 "Beverly Hills picking Cop" org.

22 Gauguin's last 48 1-2-3 software 
home DOWN 
company24 Pop music style 1 Like Lendl's lobs 

49 Breakfast beverage 2Key­
2& Thumb, e.g. 27 Kind of sch. 29 Words on a 
53 They've been 3 Spaghetti sauce minimart front framed brand 32 Hayseed 55 Many a used car 4 Stitch 5Charity­(free-throw line) &Guacamole
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
support 1 Debussy's 
dream 8 Had dinner 9 Refreshments 
28 Part of a Perle 43 Yarn holder 53 Breeze for007 Mesta epithet 45 Scads 54 Turner of 
30 Numbered work 47 Take to a higher "Peyton Place" crooner 10 "Chances Are" 
31 Compassion court 55 Some rtes. 32 Boo Boo's so Lachrymose 56 Albany canal 
11 Cats? .:.::+,._:--r'-1 12 Scads 51 Radii's partners so Meadow
buddy 33 Pizzeria need 52 Paws 61 Son of, to Fahd 13 Lucie's dad 

34 Family reunion ;rnn~l••~tr~~~~ 18 waggish mementos? .!:.+=-fl...lllll 23 Baseball's 3& G.l. hangout 
Get answers to any three clues
Tommie 39 "What say?" 
by touch-tone phone: 1·900-420·
=+-=+-'-f-''-1 25 Dandelion, e.g. 40 Young 'uns 
5656 (75¢ each minute).
"'-'-L:..:...L:::...L.:."-' 2& "No kidding" 42 Art Deco name 

• • r • I .I .1 .! J .I .1 J J j l J I I I I \ \ l l l ll L I. I. I. I. I. I. 1.1. 1.1.1.1,1.1 1.1.1 
SPORTS 
page 20 Wednesday, January 31, 1996 
• HOCKEY 
By MIKE DAY 
Sports Writer 
They unfolded their napkins and licked their chops. The Irish were just getting ready to sit down to enjoy the sweet taste of victory when a Falcon swooped down from the sky and snatched it away. 
With the smell of upset per­meating the Joyce Center Tuesday night, the Notre Dame hockey team bolted to a 2-1 lead after a dominating second period. However, just as the Irish settled down for a late dinner, Bowling Green barged in and ruined the meal, reeling off three unanswered goals to capture a 4-3 victory. 
"We came out a little flat tonight, and they seemed to capitalize on it," said senior de­fenseman Garry Gruber. "We felt that we have the same tal­ent level as them, but they didn't make the mistakes that we made when it counted." 
The loss put a damper on a night in which senior center Jamie Ling made Notre Dame history. The team leader in points and assists recorded his 150th career point Tuesday evening, becoming just the 13th Irish player to accomplish the feat. 
"lt is a great feat for him, and he really deserves it for what he's done in four years here," said sophomore left wing Steve Noble. "He has worked so hard to achieve it, so it's kind of a letdown that we couldn't pull it out for him tonight." 
Ling's accomplishment came early in the second period with the game knotted at zero. He combined with junior left wing Tim Harberts to set up Gruber for his fourth goal of the year. For Ling, it was his 30th point of the season and the second of three assists on the night. 
"This is a great accomplish­ment for him," said Gruber. "He has really earned it, and 


Notre Dame travels to St. Johns tonight seeking a victory to pull out of their current tailspin 
• 
The Observer/Mike Ruma 

While Pat Garrity led Notre Dame with 24 points last Saturday, the Irish will need more balanced scoring to get back in the win column. 
.­

Men's Basketball 
at Saint John's, Tonight, 8 p.m. 
Women's Basketball 
at Rutgers, February 3, 2 p.m. 

-
Men's Tennis 
vs. Boise St., February 2, 4 p.m. 

the team has rallied behind him this year. It is something that he deserves for the kind of effort he gives night in and night out." 
After Bowling Green tied the game at one, the Irish an­swered back to take a 2-1 lead. Just as he has done throughout his career, Ling found the right man open at the right time. On this occasion, the recipient was defenseman Ben Nelsen, who recorded his second goal of the season. 
With the Irish faithful already thinking about dessert, the Fal­cons swarmed down on Notre Dame like a pack of hungry vul­tu.res. Early in the third period, they erased all hopes of an Irish upset with three scores against goaltender Matt Eisler in just a five minute span. 
"We had a little bit of a let­down, and they took advantage of it," said Noble. "We know 
see BOWL I page 17 
The Observer/Brian Hardy 

With his first assist last night, Jamie Ling scored his 150th career point. 
• MEN'S BASKETBAll 

In the eye of the Storm 
By TIM SEYMOUR Associate Sports Editor 
As Notre Dame embarks on its second most arduous road trip of the year, the timing could not be worse for the Irish, who desperately need a win to break out of their recent sl!lmp. 
Notre Dame (6-10, 1-8) trav­els to Madison Square Garden tonight to take on St. John's (8­8, 2-6) in the first of three con­secutive road contests that may define the Irish's season. 
Unfortunately, they will find a talented Red Storm squad that is finally beginning to function cohesively after a dis­appointing start. 
Over the weekend; St. John's realized its potential for the first time, upsetting No. 9 Georgetown 83-72 in the Gar­den. 
"They are a team that is making a move after struggling early," explained Irish coach John Macleod. 
Notre Dame is a team cur­rently heading in the opposite direction, following a close loss at Miami last week with a dis­appointing outing at the Joyce Center against West Virginia on Saturday, falling 69-59 to one of the more heatable Big East squads. 
All of which makes it impera­tive that the Irish come away with a win from the road trip. However, despite the rocky start in conference play, MacLeod does not expect his charges to give up the fight easily. 
Hockey 

at UIC, February 2, 7 p.m. 
Women's Tennis 

vs. Northwestern, February 1, 3:30p.m. 
Fencing 

Women at Watham, MA, February 3 
Men at Cambridge, MA, February 4 

"I don't think that confidence is going to be a problem," he explained. "We're going to get revved up and go right after St. John's. You can't just put your head down and say 'Woe is 
me.'" 
Woeful would be an apt word to describe the Irish shooting of late, though. 
see STORM I page 17 

• 
St. Mary's swimming splits a pair see page 18 

• 
MVP Brown reaps benefits see page 14 

• 
Magic Johnson finds a new image see page 16 








