
Thursday, October 10, 1996 • Vol. XXX No. 34 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
• NATIONAL BREAST CANCER AWARENESS MONTH 
Seminar teaches prevention, care 
By RACHEL RICHMOND 

News Writer  
One of tho nation's deadliest dis­ 
eases was confronted last night, in a  
symposium highlighting Notre Dame's  
National Breast Cancer Awareness  
Month.  
The sominar, and other campus  
aelivitins this month will "serve as a  
model for other universities" said  
.Joan Lennon, a breast cancer sur­ 
vivor and last night's hostess.  
Father Theodore llesburgh,  
University president emeritus, made  
the opening rt~marks for the sympo­ 
sium. focusing on medical  
researelwrs and the importance of  
women as thn "source of life".  
llt•sburgh, who lost his oldest sister to  
brt~ast canct~r. believes, "we often  
takn for granted the wonderful dedi­ 
cation and long, hard work of medical  
rnstmrch pnople."  
lleshurgh also commented on the  
ad van c~~ m n n t s i n breast cancer  
rnst~arch saying, "Today we arc more  
Pnnrgiznd and more conscious of  
what rwt~ds to ht~ done."  
Dr. Worta MeCaskiii-Stevcns. co­ 
din~clor of Indiana University's  
Bn~ast Cann~r and Hesearch Center,  
spokt~ on narly detection and preven­ 
tion of thn disease.  
StnvtHls emphasized that breast  
cancer is a systematic disease with  
risk increasing from 1 in 19,608 at  
age 25 to I in 50 at age 50. Although  
thern aro many possible risk factors.  
including family history and a  
woman's agn at the birth of her first  
child, tlwse account for only 25 per­ 
cent of breast cancer occurrences;  
tlw otlwr 75 percent go unexplained.  
The Observer/Katie KroenerEarly detection was stressed by Father Theodore Hesburgh, president emeritus of .the University, spoke yesterday  
Stevnns, with monthly self-exams evening during the seminar, referring to the importance of women as the "source of  
suggested for all women. life."  
Mammograms should be taken every  
ynar for women over 50, but there is  issue".  die from the disease. Although still  
no data to support the need for them  Dr. George Sledge, professor of  high, these figures mark a decline in  
narlicr. Thn fears of fatalism and  medicine in the division of  breast cancer in the U.S., especially  
rnjnction are common explanations  llematology/Oncology at Indiana  in younger women.  
given by women as to why they are  University, explained new statistics  Sledge showed how growth and  
lwsitant to pursue available methods  and ways of treatment. In 1996, over  invasion of cancer cells makes the  
of early detection. Above all, Stevens  185,00 women will be diagnosed with  
said, "breast cancer is a public health  breast cancer and over 44, 000 will  see CANCER I page 4  

Speakers call for gay rights 
By MICHELLE KRUPA Assistant News Editor 
Gay rights advocates from the campus community called upon the University to extend full recognition to the needs of gay and lesbians at Notre Dame during a forum yesterday afternoon. 
At the forum, speakers addressed issues regarding economics, civil rights, theology, and students' reactions to com­ing-out at Notre Dame. 
The University's denial of Gays and Lesbians of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College's (GLND/SMC) application to be a recognized student group, and the University's refusal to give funding to Notre Dame Lesbian and Gay Students (NDLGS), the newly-formed University group, were reiterated by Kathleen Biddick, director of the gender studies program. 
"[They] provide the students with nei­ther the budget nor the civil rights to invite speakers to campus, a right enjoyed by other student groups," Biddick said. 
Because NDLGS is designated as a University group rather than as a student group, the rights and opportunities, such as sponsoring activities and speakers, extended to student groups do not apply. 
Biddick claims that intellectual posi­tions on campus can be bought by outside money. While the University does not allow gay and lesbian groups funding, a mulit-million dollar endowment group donates to the furthering of conservative ideas. This inequality can lessen oppor­tunics for minority groups. 
The gender studies program does spon­sor visiting scholars through a budget of $4,000, of which some are some funds are used to sponsor speakers and activi­ties for organizations such as GLND/SMC. 
The Bradley Foundation, which dis­perses the largest conservative endow­ments in the country, gives between $25 million and $30 million annually to other organizations and largely "fronts the con­servative Washington think tanks," Biddick said. 
Through economic inequality, Biddick claims that "the production of knowledge at Notre Dame is not an even playing 
see GENDER I page 4 

Depression screening Illuminating the night for Respect Life Week offered today at SMC 
By MAUREEN HURLEY A"ociatc News Editor 
ThP rigors of academic life. rouplnd with the transitions individuals facn during the col­lt~g~~ ynars makn students prinw candidates for depres­sion. according to officials at tlw National Institute of Mental llnalth. 
In an e!Tort to combat stig­mas and nncourage students to confront symptoms of depres­sion. Saint Mary's College will bo a site for National De prt~ssio n Se rt~t~ n in g Day. which takes plaee today. 
This is the second year the College has participated in the program, under the recom­mendation of the Association of Univnrsity and College Counseling Center Directors. 
"There aren't many more stressful settings than the col­lege or university environ­ments, so it wouldn't be unusual to see a high incidence of depression in college stu­dents," said Nancy Mascotte, assistant director of the Counseling and Career Dnvelopment Center. 
Many students misinterpret and internalize feelings of depression, according to Mascotte. "College students tend to think they can pull themselves up by the boot­straps, and handle it. They tend to think they're not trying hard enough," she said. "This program is helpful in that, along with providing the screening, it also has a large educational component on the symptoms of depression, and how to deal with them." 
Coupled with the rigors of academics and college life, Mascotte said, "South Bend is not exactly in the sun belt, so Seasonal Affected Disorder 
see SCREEN I page 4 


-------------------~---­
I r 
r 
~ 
I r 
I 
,...----------------­
page 2 
• INSIDE COLUMN 




It's rainingin the stands 
Leave those umbrellas at home. Umm, no, wait, better bring them. Hold it, scratch that. Grab your mittens instead. 
Heck, never mind. The forecast calls for fair weather, and fans all over the place seem to be drowning in it. 
Melanie Waters Here at Notre Dame, Assistant it seems that the most Accent Editor pressing and morally challenging issue to grace the editorial pages of this University is the heartless and indescribable gall of Lou Holtz to sadistical­ly treat Irish football fans to one whole loss. Oh, the inhumanity of it all! You mean that in addition to losing to an obviously overpowering football team, the sordid truth has been uncovered that Holtz will settle for nothing short of the best from his 
players? Well then, we should all be utterly ashamed to attend a university that pro­motes such barbarism. 
And Holtz has obviously held a gun to Ron Powlus' head these last four years that forced him to strive for perfection, even though Powlus himself told Sports Illustrated that he has always pushed him­self to the limit and is his own biggest source of pressure. 
This is by no means the first incidence of fair-weather fandom I've witnessed in four years, but each time it gets a little more annoying to deal with. 
Some of you even grew up in ND diapers, yet still feel the need to berate your own school after one loss. Hey, here's an idea: why don't you hold your forked tongues and let the rest of us enjoy the richest football tradition in the country. 
Fair weather fans are cropping up in vast numbers, and they're not just limited to football. 
I will shamelessly admit that my Chief Wahoo flag is flying at half mast in mourn­ing for my other "home team". The Cleveland Indians lost to the Orioles in a series that reminded me of Notre Dame's loss to Northwestern last year. Chief Wahoo's idiotic grin was quickly replaced by a city full of gaping mouths as we watched Roberto Alomar launch a phlegm ... er, I meanfastball into the stands after 12 innings. 
Granted, no one in Cleveland was smiling much after this weekend. But the thing that hurts worse than having our spirits crushed by a saliva-spewing insult to humanity is the hordes of so-called Tribe fans who are ready to throw in the toma­hawk after two seasons of near-misses. 
Sorry, but the bandwagon just isn't big enough to hold everyone. All those who can't name five players prior to 1990, this team just wasn't playing for you. Some Clevelanders have waited 41 years for a team to even be a real contender. However, if you can't take the good with the bad, then don't hog up the space in line when tickets go on sale for the 1997 season. 
Tribe fans, Yankee fans, Irish fans, what­ever. You can cheer, but don't call yourself a fan unless you really mean it. And some­times, being a fan means leaving the umbrella at home no matter what the fore­cast says. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column 
are those of the author and not necessarily 
those ofThe Observer. 
• TODAY'S STAFF 
News Lab Tech Michelle Krupa Dave McCaffrey Bridget O'Connor Production 
Sports Maureen Hurley Joe Cavato Rosanna Ventrone Viewpoint Graphics 
Ethan Hayward Melissa Weber Accent Jason Dorwat 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights arc reserved. 
Thursday, September 12, 1996
The Observer • INSIDE 
• WORLD AT A GLANCE 

Charities: Donations increase, while contributors decrease 

WASHINGTON 
Americans gave more to charity last year than they did two years earlier, but an increasing number of people gave nothing, according to a Gallup survey. 
Contributions in 1995 were 16 percent higher than in 199 3 -10 percent high­er when adjusted for inflation, the sur­vey says. 
In constant dollars, the average con­tributing household gave $1,017 in 1995, compared with $928 in 1993. 
That represented 2.2 percent of household income, a slight increase over the figure two years earlier, 2.1 percent. 
But only 69 percent of households reported giving anything last year, com­pared with 73 percent in 1993. 
The survey has been conducted every other year since 1987 by the Gallup organization for Independent Sector, a coalition representing 800 voluntary groups, foundations and corporate giv­ing programs. 
Gallup questioned 2,617 adults in face-to-face interviews this spring. The survey had a sampling error of plus or minus 3 percentage points. 
In another finding, participants expressed growing mistrust over how 

Pope recovering 'above the average' 
ROME 
Roses, recipes and warm wishes poured in Wednesday for Pope John Paul II, who was feeling just a bit of pain and pleasing doctors with his recovery the day after surgery to remove an inflamed appendix. John Paul even took a few steps, sat in an armchair and sipped tea, his doctors said. Dr. Corrado Manni, chief anes­


thesiologist at Gemelli Polyclinic, where the pope has been hospitalized since Sunday, said the pontiff's condi­tion was "excellent, above the average" for a 76-year-old man with health problems. The pope has had six opera­tions since he was shot in the stomach by a would-be assassin in 1981. His surgery Tuesday also confirmed that a benign bowel tumor removed in 1992 hadn't returned. Results of a routine biopsy were reported to be negative. The pope's doctors "found him in excellent condition, not only physically, but also in terms of state of mind, tranquil and calm," Manni told The Associated Press. 

Court: Whitewater witness in contempt 
CONWAY, Ark. 
A federal appeals court today upheld a contempt citation against Whitewater figure Susan McDougal, who refused last month to testify before a grand jury investigating President Clinton's Arkansas business dealings. The 8th 
U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals in St. Louis said McDougal had no right to refuse to testify and had no right to take her lawyer into the grand jury room. The court also said if it allowed witnesses to remain silent because they feared the grand jury or prosecutors had a different perception of the truth, it would "frustrate completely the investigative function." McDougal has been held at the Faulkner County Jail in Conway since Sept. 16 after she refused U.S. District Judge Susan Webber Wright's order that she answer questions from a Whitewater grand jury. Last May, McDougal was convicted with her ex-husband James and then-Arkansas Gov. Jim Guy Tucker in a 
Whitewater-related fraud and conspiracy trial. 

• SOUTH BEND WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forcast AccuWeather® forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 

:!f!~~ ~ ~ ::y ~y-:: 

Via Associated Press GraphicsNet 
charities use their money. The propor­tion who disagreed with the statement "most charitable organizations are hon­est and ethical in their use of funds" has increased from 20 percent in 1990 to 31 percent this year. 
In the five surveys taken since 1987, the year Americans were most gener­ous was 1989, in a time of economic upturn. 
Seventy-five percent of households reporting giving that year, and they gave $1,201 in inflation-adjusted dol­lars, which represented 2.5 percent of household income. 
The survey found similar patterns for volunteering. It said 49 percent of households reported volunteer activities in 1995, up 1 percent over 1993. The average volunteer contributed 4.2 hours a week, a figure that has not changed since 1991. 
Households which reported charitable contributions last year had an average income of $46,637, about 50 percent higher than non-contributing house­holds. 
Another finding suggested that the most effective way to get people to give to charity is simply to ask them. 


FBI to interview Olympic bomb suspect 
ATLANTA 

The FBI has returned Richard Jewell's guns and other belongings and is no longer keeping tabs on him, indicat­ing he is close to being exonerated in the Olympic Park bombing, his lawyers said. Among items returned Tuesday were his Disney videos, Tupperware and gun col­lection. Jewell, the only publicly identified suspect in the July 27 bombing, was questioned Sunday by state and fed­eral investigators for six hours. "I think this interview is a step with closure in mind," Jewell's lawyer, Lin Wood, said Tuesday. "Now we hope they will indicate in some public fashion that he is no longer a subject or a target." It was Jewell's first interrogation since July 30, three days after the early morning bomb blast killed one woman and injured 111 people at Centennial Olympic Park in down­town Atlanta. A federal law enforcement official in Washington, who spoke to The Associated Press on condi­tion of anonymity, confirmed the guns were returned and noted that would not normally happen with a major sus­pect. Tuesday, U.S. District Judge Owen Forrester heard arguments from Jewell's lawyers to unseal the FBI affi­davits used to obtain search warrants against Jewell. 
Internet scams exposed 
SAN FRANCISCO 

The messages flood electronic mail boxes and clog the Internet: Make money at home! Order chips cheap! Earn cash fast! But online as in life, if it sounds too good to be true, it probably is. On Wednesday, the National Consumer League issued a list of the top five Internet scams, based on complaints from online users. The nonprofit organization, based in Washington, launched Internet Fraud Watch this year to monitor online scams and stop scam artists. Topping the scam list are pyramid schemes, in which early investors are paid with money sent in by later investors. In one $6 million case pursued by the Federal Trade Commission, Fortuna Alliance L.L.C. used a World Wide Web page to lure thousands of people to pay between $250 and $1,750 by promising them $5,000 per month as others enrolled. The FTC won a temporary injunction against 
the company. 
• NATIONAL WEATHER 
The AccuWeather"'forecast for noon, Thursday, Oct. 10. 
Lines separate high temperature zones for the day. 


COLD WARM STATIONARY 
C 1996 AccuWeather, Inc. 

Pressure ~ 
H L Ea ISS! [TIJ 0 tzJ § '(:} L.._i cC:J. 
HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY 
NATIONAL SUMMARY: Cooter alr moving Inland hom \he Paci1\c today will bring an end to the unusual warm speU across Washington. Oregon and northern California. Chilly air will senle in across the Great Lakes with temperatures not rising above the 40s from western New York to Wisconsin. Warm, tranquil weather will continue across the Rockies. 
Atlanta  68  50  Fairbanks  25  19  New York  64  56  
Baltimore  64  53  Honolulu  89  75  Omaha  60  35  
Boston  66  58  Houston  80  51  St. Louis  54  45  
Chicago  50  40  Miami  84  69  San Francisco 69  57  
Detroit  49  41  Milwaukee  50  42  Seattle  62  53  

.----------------------~---_.........___________. 
~ ---~ 
Thursday, October l 0, 1996 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Bergin enters Hall of Continuing Ed 
and Business Administration, America. He received this
Induction will Bergin earned his master's award from President Clinton 
degree in economics from the at the White House. take place . University of Vermont in 1947. Outside his positions at 
He recieved his Ph.D. from Notre Dame, Bergin has 
the Maxwell Graduate School served as a business advisor


later this month 
of Citizenship at Syracuse .and consultant for numerous University in 1957. agencies and as a special con-By BETH WILD Bergin began his career at sultant for the U.S.
News Writer 
the University as an instruc­Department of Commerce in tor, and by 1952 he had 1960 and 1961.
Thomas Bergin, dean emer­earned the position of the President Kennedy appoint­itus of continuing education at Head of the Department of ed him to the Advisory Boardthe Unive-rsity of Notre Dame, Business Administration. on Economic Development inwas rflcently elected to the 
He was named the Jesse Washington, D. C. in 1961. He James Professor of Business is currently serving on the
Adult and 
Continuing 
Administration in 1961 and Boards of Directors for both Education was appointed to the Faculty the Skyline Corporation and Hall of Fame, Board in Control of Athletics Valley American Bank, where located in in 1962. he is Chairman of the Audit Washington, Bergin was the founding Committee. 
D.C. director of the Center for Bergin was a member and 
The hall of Continuing Education at Notre officer of the Michiana Arts fame, which Bergin Dame, and was named the and Science Council, which he honors men Dean of Continuing Education helped to establish in 1967. In and women in Jan. of 1964. the 1970s, he p·artook in hear­who have made lasting contri­Through Bergin's leader­ings before the Sub-Committee butions to continuing educa­ship, the Center for Continuing on Select Education for a tion, was established in 1995, Education has become a major White House Conference on and Bergin is in its initial class conference center, helping to the Arts. He was given a six of inductees. play a major role in the devel­year appointment by President 
A ceremony will be held on opment of the University. Carter to the National Council Oct. 29, in Charlotte, N.C., to "The center has been on the Arts in 1979. .. formally initiate Bergin. extremely beneficial. People He also served on the 
"It is an honor in that you from around the world have Governer's Commission on the are judged by your peers. It's been brought in for confer­Arts under the last three gov­not something that is easily ences at the center. It has ernors. accomplished when you are also served as a focal point for Bergin has published anum­judged by a peer group. many departmental activities," ber of works covering a range 
The Continuing Education Bergin said. of topics including business, Hall of Fame is a tremendous In addition to his appoint­economics, art and education. organization as it relates to ment to the Continuing In addition, he has published the internal progress of many Education Hall of Fame, articles or contributed editori­universities. Bergin was chosen to be a al comments to Business 
It will involve sharing many recipient of the National Week, The New York Times, kinds of resources," Bergin Medal of the Arts in 1994 by and The Chicago Tribune. said. the National Endowment for Bergin was married to 
A 1945 graduate of Notre the Arts thanks to his contri­Barbara Barrett in 1923. Dame with degrees in Science butions to the cultural life of They have four children. 

Planning for women's futures 
The Observer/Katie Kroener Kate Archibald, Susan St. Ville, and Yasmin Nordien {left to right) discussed plans during an open house at the Women s Resource Center on Wednesday night. 


Arnold family donates $2 million to Libraries 
Special to The Observer Father Theodore Hesburgh, 
president emeritus of the 

Notre Dame has received a University. "I can be a little $2 million comitment from more grateful than others Edward and Suzanne Arnold of because I spend most of myLebanon, Pa., to endow the days working here in the directorship of the University library, which seems to get bet­Libraries~ ter each year." 
"We are deeply grateful for Edward Arnold, chairman, the Arnolds' overwhelming president and chief operatinggenerosity," said Notre Dame officer of Arnold Industries in president, Father Edward Lebanon, Pa., is a 1961 Notre Malloy. "The endowment of Dame graduate and a member the Edward and Suzanne of the advisory council for the Arnold Directorship of the University Libraries. He and 
University Libraries will benefit his wife, Suzanne, have five thousands of Notre Dame stu­children. A previous benefac­dents, faculty and staff for gen­tion from Mr. and Mrs. Arnold erations to come." made possible the librar.ies' 
"The kindness of the Arnolds E.H. and Suzanne Arnold will make the library an even Family Endowment for finer University facility," said Germanic Studies. 




Friday, ()ctober 11th: 4:30-6:30 FIELD H<JlJSE MALL 



FIGHTIN' IRISHT" 


If it rains, postponed to Friday before Air Force Game 



Gender 
continued from page 1 
ground and the issue of who gets funded and who does not get funded and gets silenced does not end at the campus gate." 
The Bradley Foundation funded Right Reason, a conser­vative student journal at Notre Dame, last year, and is, accord­ing to Biddick "interested in forming conservative, racist, homophobic, misogynistics." 
According to Daniel Moloney, editor-in-chief of Right Reason, the Bradley Foundation does not fund Right Reason this year. 
Ava Preacher, assistant dean of the College of Arts and Letters, discussed the lack of reference to sexual orientation in the nondiscrimination clause the appears in University publi­cations, claiming that "the University's refusal to include the clause is a form of discrimi­nation." 

Screen 
continued from page 1 
would be more common here, than in sunnier places." 
However, with midterms approaching and waves of homesickness affecting stu­dents, it is important that stu­dents learn to distinguish between "depression and the blues," according to Mascotte. 
"If the symptoms are getting in the way of functioning, and if negative feelings are getting in the way living the kind of life you want," individuals should seek counseling, she said. 
Focusing on the educational component of the program, the Screening Day is divided into three parts. 
A video, with individuals speaking on their experiences with depression, will run throughout the day in the LeMans lobby. At 10:50 a.m. and 3:55 p.m., Dr. Richard Hubbard, the clinical supervi­sor of the Counseling and Career Development Center, will present a lecture on the symptoms and causes of depression. 
Screening sessions will take 

place at 10:50 a.m., 3:50 p.m. 
and 3:55 p.m., where students 
will complete a confidential, 
anonymous written test. 
Following the test, which 
makes use of the Zung 
Depression Self-Rating Scale, 
students will go over the 
results with a staff counselor. 
Last year, 15 students volun­page4 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, October 10, 1996 

ognize the differences between students as strong points." 
He, too, noted the lack of a reference to sexual orientation in the nondiscrimination poli­cy, claiming that it is "hurtful," and stated that this, along with the University's denial of GLND~MC's student group application, is a blatant form of inequality. 
"They are trying to hide behind mystical interpretations of the Bible, and by not recog­nizing the group, the adminis­tration has made something very clear -that we are not equal and that what becomes our defining trait on this cam­pus is our homosexuality," Gallavan said. 
Gallavan hopes that during "Coming-Out Week" this week, the gay and lesbian community can show the University that "this is not a disorder -this is who we are." 
The forum, "Free Speech In and Out of the Closet" was sponsored by the gender stud­ies department and took place in DeBartolo Hall. 


In addition, she cited the University's denial of GLND/SMC's application for official recognition, comparing the University's idea that the group members meet to "act on their inclinations" to that of "a group of alcoholics meeting to get drunk." 
"Repression of any student is unjust and illegal," she said. 
She further claimed that the University's argument of the use of' Biblical doctrine to dic­tate policy is not universal, because dorm-sponsored SYRs advocate "drinking and sex outside the bonds of marriage." 
Father John Donato, a Holy Cross priest in the South Bend area and graduate business student at Notre Dame, announced his homosexual at the forum. He described his desire to be "free to worship ... without fear ... of being rejected because I am gay." 
He mentioned that silence is often preferred to truth. 
"There is a subtle and insidi­ous way that our fear of sexual­ity has bound us up and makes 
teered for screening; and 13 of those students were encour­aged to follow through with counseling. 
The Center encourages that all students, particularly Social Work and Psychology majors, take advantages of the educa­tional programming offered, even if students do not opt to participate in the screening. 
"The educational program­ming is important for the stu­dents, because they may have friends or family that suffer from clinical depression," said Mascotte. 
That fact is accurate accord­ing to statistics from the National Institute of Mental Health. According to their fig­ures, one in 10 adults suffers from depression, with women experiencing depression twice as often as men. 
"Depression can hit anyone, regardless if they're male or female, rich or poor, intelligent or otherwise. It's non-discrim­inating," said Mascotte. 
National Depression Screening Day is sponsored by AARP, American Psychiatric Association, Harvard Medical School Department of Psychiatry, McLean Hospital, National Alliance for the Mentally Ill, National Depressive and Manic-Depression Association, the National Institute of Mental Health and the Mental Health Association. 
All activities will take place 
in the Counseling and Career 
Development Center, located in 
LeMans Hall. 
If you see news happening call 1-5323. 

us unfree," Donato said. "Out of the shame-filled silence, the gut reaction is to lie, hide, or ignore what we are." 
Although homosexuality has become a heated political issue, Donato says that "[it] is not my problem. It is someone else's fear talking." 
Theologically speaking, he is glad the Catholic Church has finally started to clarify its posi­tion on sexual orientation, allowing people to search for the truth of who they are. 
"Simply and clearly the Church upholds the dignity of every person. In the face of fear and discrimination, as we surely find at the University of Notre Dame, all I can do is trust... that we would be free from fear," Donato said. "If we cannot uphold the truth, what kind of God do we believe in?" 
Donato is the second Holy Cross priest in recent months to declare his homosexuality, superceding Father David Garrick's announcement last spring. Garrick, a professor in the communications and the-


Cancer 
contin~d from page 1 
disease dangerous and explain-ed that treatment is like "dropping bombs" on the affected area. One new drug that is l:)eing tested is Marimastat, which attempts to prevent the reoccurrence of breast cancer. 
Betty L. Green, a registered nurse, National Breast Cancer Coalition board member and Breast Cancer Advocate intro­duced Indiana's Third District Representative, Tim Roemer. Advocates are "fighters for the eradication of breast cancer" and active lobbyists in Congress for increased funding for research. 
"It is the grass roots move­ment...that has helped fund research," Roemer stated. He went on to point out the signif­ater department, made public his sexual orientation in a letter to The Observer dated April 4. 

Senior Gina Rucavado described the terms and condi­tions under which a student comes out at Notre Dame as being unlike those anywhere else. She stated that a place like Notre Dame -where any person can feel free to talk frankly and negatively about homosexuals and their lifestyle -is not a safe, accepting place. 
She claimed that the University has an ethical stand­ing that does not cater to all students. 
"If you have an exclusive ethics, one that excludes even one person, it is a power that works against that one person. How long will it t1lke Notre Dame to act ethically on behalf of all of us?" Rucavado asked. 
Sean Gallavan, co-chair of GLND/SMC, described Notre Dame as a "campus where everyone hides, where speak­ing is bad and silence is good. And Notre Dame has yet to rec­
icant increase in congressional funding for breast cancer to the National Institute of Health, from $87 million in 1990 to approximately $400 million this year. "It is the people fighting in the trench­es" that made such advance­ments possible," Roemer said. 
The symposium concluded with a song by the reflecting pool, followed by a candlelight procession to the Grotto. 
Notre Dame's efforts in the fight against breast cancer will c.ontinu~ later this week. "Just Peachy -Cooking Up A Cure Cookbook", which raises money for the fight against breast cancer, will be sold at the bookstore, and Regis Philbin will be signing copies there on Saturday at 11 a.m. 
Hesburgh's Brownies and John Cougar Mellencamp's "Vacuum Cookies," two exam­ples of recipes in the book, will also be available on Saturday. 




EXPRESS 
The place to go for ALL your NOTRE DAME sportswear & accessories! 
LaFortune Student Center 
(219)631-8128  
IRISH  Friday  12-9 pm  
EXPRESS  Saturday  8am-9pm 
HOURS  Sunday  9am -3 pm  

Yisi~ our SECOIID loca~ion sou~h of ~he s~adiumt 
We accept VISA, MasterCard and Discover 
~----~-­

Thursday, October 10, 1996 The Observer· INTERNATIONAL NEWS page 5 
• BOSNIA •CYPRUS 


First American troops withdraw fro01 Bosnia 
By JEFFREY ULBRICH 
Associated Pres.• Writer 
TUZLA, Bosnia-llerzegovina 
American military forces began the long process of withdrawing from Bosnia on Wednesday, with about 200 soldiers and 100 vehidos leaving for their home base in Germany. 
They aro among the 15,000 American men and women, mostly from the 1st Armored Division, serving with the NATO-led interna­tional !"oren sent to Bosnia last Dm:mnber. 
President Clinton's had promised to bring the soldiers home within a year. 
Col. Larry leenogle, spokesman for the multinational forces in the 
U.S. see tor, said the troop move­ment was tlw first step in actually derrnasing tlw American forces ­the largest national contingent in thn peace force. 
The homeward troop now will continue until just before the municipal elections Nov. 22-24, leenogle said in Tuzla, where U.S. forces are basml. 
At the same time. 5,000 soldiers from the U.S. I st Infantry Division will movo into Bosnia t!i cover the armored division's pullout. Troops from both units will be in the coun­try to help provide security for the local elections. Icenogle said. 
"The redoployment of Task Force Eagle begins today," said a state­ment from the Tuzla headquarters, naming two artillery units and a military police company. They will go to a staging base in Taszar, Hungary, for maintenance before n~turning to bases in Baumholder and llanau, Germany. 
Other American unil-; had already been sent home from Bosnia as the foree shifted its mandate since December, but those units were replaced by others with different capabilities. 
The 53,000-member peace force 

15miles 
~ 
15km 

Olovo:, ./ '~-./
····l\ '\)./ ... . 0 
, f 1, · Zepa 
Sar~jevo BOSNIA­
S:_..,, HERZEGOVINA YUGO. ~:f\ o .., (SettJIB)
b·1t '-Pale/ .:.:,.....,~.! 
.'l:···:~:._._··_··_··.... ~ __ z,de ·~ ·
··.G-~o~r-;;,.>a 

-~~......, rr?(il ...
,':o 

C-":·~a ·'' 
CROATIA Sava River ) 
: II§§ 
•srcko

&1:1 ............ 
\/
\ ,. 

BOSNIA· ·-.... •...c:..............
'1: HERZEGOVIN~/·() ~\ · • //Sarajevo 
~~-..· 
;,.~-~·~<~ II 
50 miles '.· ....:S.~\ VUGO. ~ Zf -~-::;~i"·,~~ (Montenegro) 
Flags denote nation leading NATO force in the region. 
APIWm. J. Castello 

was sent to Bosnia and staging areas in Croatia and Hungary with a one-year mandate that began on Dec. 20, 1995. NATO political lead­ers have not decided what, if any, military force should remain beyond that, though most comman­ders on the ground agree some kind of force is necessary. 
Republican members of Congress were angered last week with the Pentagon announcement that it was sending a 5,000-member "covering force" to protect the 1st Armored Division as it withdraws. 



Quake rocks Middle East 
One killed, 21 injured in Mediterranean earthquake 
By ALEX EFTY 
Associated Press Writer 
NICOSIA, Cyprus 
A strong Mediterranean earthquake rattled much of the Middle East on Wednesday, killing an Egyptian whose house col­lapsed on top of her and injuring 21 Cypriots. 
Buildings swayed in Cyprus and panicked resi­dents ran outside in Egypt, the two places that sus­tained the worst damage from "the magnitude-6.8 quake. 
The temblor also was felt across Israel, Syria, Jordan, Lebanon, western Turkey and the Greek islands of Rhodes and Crete. 
The U.S. Geological Survey said the 3:10 p.m. earthquake occurred in the Mediterranean Sea about 20 miles southwest of the Cypriot port of Paphos and some 80 miles from Nicosia. 
"I was terrified," said Emma Nicolaou, who runs a photo shop in Nicosia. "I tried to run out, but I could hardly walk, the ground was shaking so much." 
Hundreds of miles away in Egypt, people similarly pan­icked. 
"I felt a tremendous shake, the door was bang­ing and my chair was mov­ing around. Everyone ran down the stairs and the ele-vators got stuck," said Magdi Awaida, who works on the 22nd floor of the Radio and Television build­ing in downtown Cairo. 


Police reported a 40-year­old villager was killed when her house collapsed in Faheem, north of Cairo. 
Twenty-one people were hurt in Paphos in south­western Cyprus, the port closest to the epicenter. 
State-run Cyprus radio said landslides blocked some mountain roads, nearly toppled churches and damaged several build­ings. 
The region has a history of deadly tremors. On Nov. 22, an earthquake of mag-
NORTHERN IRELAND 
nitude-6.2 rocked the Gulf of Aqaba, damaging build­ings in Jordan. Egypt and Israel and killing eight peo­ple. 
A quake that struck Cairo on Oct. 12, 1992, killed more than 450 people and injured 4,000. 
Wednesday's quake was felt for more than two min­utes, with a mild aftershock followowing about an hour later. 
A quake of magnitude-6 can cause severe damage if it is cenfered under a popu­lated area. 
Magnitude-? indicates a major earthquake capable of widespread, heavy dam­age. 


• 


IRA demonstrates defiance 
By SHAWN POGATCHNIK 
Associated Press Writer 
BELFAST, Northern Ireland 
For eight months, Catholics and Protestants watched the Irish Republican Army's renewed bombing campaign play out on distant English bat­tlefields. 
Belfasters hoped it would stay that way. 
But as anti-terrorist police gradually got the upper hand in London -raiding IRA safe houses, arresting 13 suspects and seizing 10 tons of explo­sives -a demoralized IRA returned home to demonstrate its defiance. 
Detonating two car bombs Monday inside the British army's command center, 
Thiepval Barracks, was an lHA coup that will keep the secret society united, for now, on a war footing. 
However, the outlawed group's political leaders in the Sinn Fein party are losing hard­won friends and any hope of gaining admission to Northern Ireland's political negotiations. 
More immediately, Catholic civiliaps fear "loyalist" paramil­itary groups, which draw sup­port from pro-British Protestant turf, will respond by killing Catholics. 
'The dogs in the street know this attack was designed to pro­voke loyalists into action," said Gary McMichael, leader of a party linked to the largest pro­British paramilitary group, the Ulster Defense Association. 



--· ~~--~~-­

page 6 The Observer • ELECTI 0 N '96 Thursday, October 10, 1996 

Internet plagued by political information 
By ELIZABETH WEISE level above most journalists. Associated Press Writer We all thought it was going to be a lot of twentysomethings SAN FRANCISCO who don't know about politics 
When Bob Dole suggested and don't care. But they come young people get involved in in with facts and figures ­the campaign by tapping into they've gone out and done his World Wide Web page, his research," Irwin said. techno-appeal might have In fact, Web users are dis­seemed aimed at some tinctly wealthier and more untouched pool of potential educated than the general 
voters.  population.  
But  rather  Income  and  
than being a vast army of nonpolitical  'We're amazed because  education cor­relate with political activ­ 
twentysome­ they're debating at a  ity,  which  
things ripe for the picking, Internet users  level above most journalists. We all  means there'­s a high corre­lation  
turn out to be older, educated and more likely  thought it was going to be a lot of  between using the Internet and a propen­ 
to vote than the population overall. They  twentysomethings who don't know  sity to vote, said Roger Hurwitz, a  
also  may  be  about politics and  researcher at  
less swayed  easily than  don't care.'  t h e Massachusetts  
campaign workers might  Heather Irwin  Institute of Technology in  
like.  Cambridge.  

Forget the image of the typ­He's studying how the public ical Web surfer as a laUe­uses the White House on-line drinking Generation X'er who document network. doesn't read newspapers. The A census study in 1994 debates on HotWired, a Web­found that people with based magazine based in San modems were 50 percent Francisco, turn that notion on more likely to vote than those its head. who did not, Hurwitz said. 
"They're media junkies!" Which means that the peo­said Heather Irwin, who is ple on line are probably the covering the race for Netizen, same people who already HotWired's political "chan­take the time to read position nel." papers and watch C-SPAN 
"We go into the (discussion) and CNN -people who prob­threads and we're amazed ably already know whom they because they're debating at a want for president. 
By CONNIE CASS 
Associated Press Writer 
WASHINGTON 

An independent counsel is needed to investigate the mil­lions of dollars the Democratic and Republican parties have spent on TV advertising for President Clinton and Bob Dole, a campaign reform group said today. 
Both presidential candidates "engaged in an illegal scheme to circumvent federal c~mpaign finance laws" by using the par­ties to pay what should have been their own campaign expenses, officials of Common Cause told reporters. 
Each candidate agreed te limit his primary campaign spending to $37.1 million as one· of the terms for receiving millions of dollars in matching funds from the taxpayers. 
Neither Clinton nor Dole counted millions more in party spending against that limit. Each party contends that its ads fall under spending legally allowed for "party-building" 
activities that don't directly r-------=---------------------,
endorse a candidate and can be paid for with corporate dona­tions. 
But Common Cause argued that the ads were coordinated with the candidates and there­fore amounted to campaign spending that is subject to the limit. 
"Common Cause believes that the violations that occurred dur­ing the 1996 presidential elec­tion are the most massive viola­tions of the campaign finance laws since the Watergate scan­dal," said Ann McBride, presi­dent of the nonpartisan, non­profit group. 
She called on the Justice 
Department to appoint an inde­pendent counsel to investigate the charges, instead of leaving them in the hands of the Federal Election Commission, which is composed of three Democratic and three Republican commis­sioners. 
The FEC already is examining 


VP hopefuls face off in debate 
By JOHN KING League Championship series. Associated Press Writer For activists in both parties, the evening had 
an inescapable subplot. Gore, 48, is all but cer­

ST. PETERSBURG, Fla. tain to seek the Democratic presidential nomi­
Vice President AI Gore and Jack Kemp differed nation in four years. And if Dole loses to Clinton, politely but pointedly over abortion and affirma­the 61-year-old Kemp would be considered the tive action Wednesday night in an energetic top early prospect for the next Republican nomi­debate that offered sharply contrasting views of nation. President Clinton's first term. Gore was declared a clear 
Neither abortion nor affirma-winner by all seven high school tive action had come up in DEBATE '96 and college debate coaches who Sunday night's debate between judged the debate for The Clinton and GOP nominee Bob Associated Press. In a quick poll Dole, hut both issues generated conducted by ABC, 50 percent spirited exchanges between the said Gore won the showdown, campaign understudies. 27 percent viewed Kemp as the 
Although both Dole and Kemp winner and 21 percent called it are on record supporting a con-a draw. stitutional amendment outlawing ST.PEIERSBURG Dole, watching the debate abortion, Kemp said such a dra-F L o R I D A from suburban Chicago, 
matic change was not in the cards. 

"There is no consensus," Kemp said. "A consti­tutional amendment would not pass. We must use persuasion, not intimidation." That remark, while perhaps an accurate reflection of the coun­try's political environment, was certain to alien­ate Christian conservative leaders who have been urging Dole and Kemp to draw sharper contrasts with Clinton on abortion and other social issues. 
Affirmative action is another such issue, and Gore moved quickly to put Kemp on the defensive on that point. 
The vice president recalled that Kemp had crit­icized a California ballot initiative rolling back affirmative-action programs but later fell in line with Dole's support for it after joining the GOP ticket. Gore said he wished Kemp had convinced Dole to change his position instead. 
"With all due respect, I do not believe Abraham Lincoln would have adopted Bob Dole's position to end all affirmative action," Gore said, promoting Clinton's "mend it, don't end it," approach. 
Kemp and Gore faced off in St. Petersburg's bayfront Mahaffey Theater. Reform Party vice presidential nominee Pat Choate was excluded, on grounds he and Ross Perot did not have a realistic chance to win the election. 
The debate was carried by three major broad­cast networks. But there was competition on Fox, which carried the first game of the National 
~----------------------------------~ 
complaints -filed by the candi­dates' political opponents-that both Clinton and Dole violated the presidential primary spend­ing limits. The FEC could fine the campaigns or recommend criminal charges, if it finds wrongdoing. But that process can take months oreven years. 
Chinese -American Restaurant and Cocktail Lounge 
Lunches starting at .... $4.25 Dinners starting at .... $5.95 Banquet rooms available up to 200 




R£AT \VALL 
Bar and Restaurant open 7 days a week 130 Dixie Way N., South Bend 

• 
Coursework, internships & more ' 

• 
Business programs in 3 countries 

• 
Placement in foreign universities 


ZIMBABWE • ENGLAND • ITALY 
HONG KONG • SPAIN • FRANCE 
SYRACUSE UNIVERSITY • 119 Euclid Avenue • Syracuse, NY 13244-4170 1·800-235-3472 • DIPA@suadmin.syr.edu • http://sumweb.syr.edu/dipa 
B RUN 0 'S 

Every Thursday All-You-Can-Eat 

P'izza &: Pasta for ss.oo 6:00p.m. -8:30p.m. 
at BRUNO'S SOUTH 


288-3320 
~~STILL THE BEST" 
applauded Kemp for outlining sharp differences on tax and other economic policies. ''I'm very proud of him," Dole said. As for Gore, Dole said, "He did a good job of pro­moting more government, tax-and-spend liberal policies, more regulation." 
For all the speculation about campaign 2000, Kemp and Gore were determined to keep the focus on Clinton and Dole. 
"This economy is overtaxed, over-regulated," Kemp said in making the case for Dole's plan to cut taxes 15 percent across the board. Kemp said the economy was growing a feeble 2.5 percent a year under Clinton. 
Gore, in turn, said repeatedly that Dole and Kemp were offering a "risky $550 billion tax scheme" that would "blow a hole in the deficit and cause much deeper cuts in Medicare, Medicaid, education and the environment." 
Kemp protested that Clinton and Gore were practicing "demagoguery" in trying to frighten older Americans. 
Gore promoted Clinton's plan for targeted tax cuts to help low-and middle-class families pay for college. Kemp countered that government should not engage in "social engineering" by picking winners and losers through tax policy. 
Kemp fudged when asked if he agreed with Dole's call for a repeal of the family leave law. "I wouldn't have voted for it; it is in place," Kemp said. The law is popular with working women, a critical constituency. 

Reform group analyzes ads 


Thursday, October 10, 1996 The Observer· NATIONAL NEWS page 7 
FBI questions families of TWA casualites 
By PAT MILTON A<sociated Press Wrirer 
SMITHTOWN, N.Y. 
After tllmrly three months of eoming up dry in tho investiga­tion of TWA Flight 800, the FBI has informnd the grieving rolatives of the dead that agents will start asking them questions. 
"Wn need thn victims to be part of our toam," said James Kallstrom, llll FBI assistant dir11rtor. "Wo want to obtain any information that they think may be of value to us." 
Kallstrom, who is leading the erirninal probt~ into the cause of the .July 17 explosion that killed all 230 people aboard, said tho delay in interviewing rolatives came because agent'i were J'oeused on other areas and hocause he wanted to sparn the family members for as long as possible. 
In a two-pagfl letter sent last wc.wk to nllativcs, Kallstrom cxpmssmf his condolences and informed them that they would be contacl!~d to set up an appointment in the next few weeks. 
"An event such as this leaves all of us with many questions but with few answers," Kallstrom wrote. 
"You havo our· commitment as professional investigators that we will spare no effort to answer one of thostl questions: What caused this terrible 
Watch this week for 

,Z?~ 
~z:-ii 
surveys in your dorm that ask for your input concerning equipment in the new Athletic Faci Iity. 
Let them know what you want 
tragedy?" 

In addition to trying to find out whether the crash was eaUS(ld by a bomb, a mic;sile or a mechanical malfunction, agents have been c~nsidering other seenarios-sueh as whether it was an individual crime motivated by revenge. jealousy, insuranee fraud or oV!m suicide. 
As part of the preparation for asking tough questions, about 50 FBI agents attended a three-hour sensitivity session with family members from two prior plane disasters. 
"We hope that they under­stand we want to do a profes­sional job, but with as much gentleness and compassion as we can," Kallstrom said. "We didn't want to repeat what some victim's families said was offensive treatment in the past by law enforcement." 
Victoria Cummock of Coral Gables, Fla., said she got cold, even rude treatment from FBI agents after her husband per· ished in the Pan Am Flight 103 bombing over Lockerbie, Scotland. eight years ago. 
"I felt like I lost my husband and my country," said Cummoek, who participated in the FBI sensitivity sessions. "They came unannounced to my door ·and told me, 'We are not here to answer your ques­tions. We are hero for you to answer ours. thank you very much."' 

Environment made top priority 
Law to protect Grand Canyons Colorado River 
By JEFF SHAIN 
Associated Press Writer 
PHOENIX 
Marking a "sea change" in the way the nation's dams are operated, Interior Secretary Bruce Babbitt signed new regu­lations Wednesday giving envi­ronmental eoncerns precedence over power needs in managing the Colorado Hiver's flow through the Grand Canyon. 
The landmark measure, restrieting a power coopera­tive's ability to send wildly fluc­tuating amounts of water through the Glen Canyon Dam, is expected to serve as a blue­print for dam operations across the United States. 
"We have now provided pro­tection to the Colorado River," Babbitt said. "This marks a sea change in the way we view the operation of large dams. We have shown they ean be operat­ed for environmental purposes as well as water capture and power generation." 
The order follows six years of research into the environmen­tal changes caused by the Glen Canyon Dam since it began operating in 1963, turning what was once a red, muddy river into a dear, green waterway. 
The studies, including a man­made flood last March, con-

Refreshing the canyon 
More than 30 years after a dam stopped the Colorado River 

0 

"0 from flowing through the Grand Canyon, a manmade flood brought the ecosystem back to life. The four·day, 8,()()() cubic·2 "' foot·per·second flow restored several major waterways and ~ ARIZONA old beaches in the canyon, and returned nutrient·rich 
sediment to fish and plants, according to government studies 
being released Wednesday. 

. ~---~~~,..~~y/""..:'~·-. 
-·-·GulfofCalif. 
River water zone 
Peregrine Bighorn Mule Humpback falcon* sheep deer Chub fish• 
Wild and plant life we1~ effected by sedime/11 distribution from flooding 
into the new high water zone. Refreshed by nwrients, new vegetation 
grew in sediment deposits, giving the ecosystem a boost. Where 
canyon life resides: 
Cholla Mesquite Willow Grdsses 
cactus *Endangem/ :~ ~ specres -C > 

AP research AP 
eluded that the canyon's ecosystem had been choked by three decades of extreme daily fluctuations in water releases from the dam, along with the absence of natural seasonal flooding. 
The artilicial flood returned nutrient-rich sediment to the river, reviving old beaches and creating several new ones. It also revived habitats for endan­gored fish to breed in some of the backwaters. 
Until the studies began -and interim restrictions were put in place in 1991 -the Glen Canyon Dam was operated according to the power needs of the West's growing population. abruptly raising water levels to provide more electricity when people usually turn on air eon­ditioners and cook dinner. 
.z 
/1~.\~
.<I: 
•' ...... 
.,· \.. w 

by taking just a few minutes


e to fill out the form! 
. 
PRESENTS: 

THURSDAY 
COLLEGE NIGHT 
FEATURING 

SKALCOHOLI KS 
7 PIECE BAND WITH HORNS 
DJ's between band breaks Doors open at 9PM 21 and over with ID Uniform Security provided both inside and outside 
SAVE $2.00 WITH THIS AD BEFORE 11 PM THURSDAY 
COMING FRIDAY OCT. 18... BATILE OF THE BANDS 
page 8 The Observer • NATIONAL NEWS Thursday, October 10, 1996 





Six share Nobel Prize for science irrels next? 


NOBEL 
Chemistry • 1996 
Winners since 1986 
1996 Harold W. Kroto, Britain and 
Robert F. Curl Jr. and 
United States 

1995 Paul Crutzen, Netherlands and Mario Molina and 
F. Sherwood Rowland, United States 

1994 George A. Olah, United States 
1993 Kary B. Mullis, United States and Michael Smith, Canada 
1992 Rudolph A. Marcus, Canadian-born American 
By MATT CRENSON 
Associated Press Writer 
NEW YORK 

Six scientists -five of them 
Americans -won Nobel Prizes 
on Wednesday for discovering 
soccer ball-shaped molecules 
dubbed "buckyballs" and a 
strange form of helium that 
could shed light on the uni­
verse's first few instants. 
Two Texans and a Briton won the chemistry prize for discov­ering a family of carbon mole­cules that spawned a new field ·of study. Formally known as fullerenes and informally called buckyballs, the odd-shaped molecules were named for architect R. Buckminster Fuller because of their resemblance to 
his geodesic domes. 
The physics prize went to 
three U.S. scientists for discov­
ering that at extremely low tem­
peratures a form of helium can 
flow without losing energy to 
friction. That finding has had 
unexpected applications to theo­
ries about the universe's earliest 
moments, and opened a window 
into a weird subatomic realm. 
"It's fundamental knowledge 
about how matter works," said 
Russell Donnelly, a physicist at 
the University of Oregon who 
taught one of the physics Iaure­ates decades ago. "I think it's long, long overdue." 
The chemistry prize was shared by Harold W. Kroto, 57, who teaches at Sussex University in England, and Robert F. Curl, Jr., 63, and Richard E. Smalley, 53, of Rice University in 'Houston. The three discovered buckyballs at Rice in 1985. 
"It's what every kid who had a chemistry set dreams of. There's no doubt about it, it's marvelous," Curl said in Houston. 
Buckyballs haven't become a critical part of daily life, but chemists predict that fullerene technology is on the horizon. Labs around the world are working on ways to apply them. 
Among other things, they are working on using buckyballs to conduct electricity without resistance or to deliver medi­cine into the body. Scientists might even be able to turn buckyballs into diamonds or string together a tubular type of fullerene to create super-strong fibers. 
"What it does is it gives you a building block that can be employed for a number of pos­sibilities," said Stuart Staley, a chemist at Carnegie Mellon University in Pittsburgh. 
ef rmed 



a gists 
n(hivels of getting a chill spine." ~,.;,"'r'ltii<>t" aren't sure what's 
the deformities. The tne,on~~s run the gamut from 3est1Clttes to par&Sites to· radi­
from ozone (iepletion, or combinatio~ (lf factors. worries many around tJ.,~fut•.~ is \vhether humans UIUJger., tOO;: :.,:,J:.. 
a reasoilaPl!;l surn}.Hion that if there's an 1 s:trnsl;an<:e· influencing development, it 1uu:utrJLlv., human devel­
• ).said David Hoppe, 
on a state-financed ····ofscientistS researching problem. 
So far, little has been discov­ered. The federal Environmental Protection 
a Agency plans to do its own study. Students from the Minnesota New Country School in Le Sueur, in the heart of the state's farm country, first 
.. reported the deformed leopard ·· during a field trip to a ""'"""'"last year. 

Richard E. Smalley,

1991 Richard R. Ernst, Switzerland 1990 Elias James Corey, ACADEMIC YEAR SEMESTER United States 1989 Sidney Altman and Thomas Cech, IN LONDONUnited States 1988 Johann Diesenhofer, Robert Huber and Hartmut Michel, Germany AEROSPACE OR MECHANI1987 Donald J. Cram and Charles J. Pedersen, United States ENGINEERING MAJORSJean-Marie Lehn, France 1986 Dudley R. Herschbach and Yuan T. Lee, interested in going to Londo United States John C. Polanyi, Canada their fifth semester come to: ·· ·· APNJm. J. Castello If you Room 356 Fitzpatrick Hall news Thursday, October 10 happening, 7:00 p.m. to 8:00 p.m. call The Observer at 631-5323. Local business seeks light assembly line workers, full or part time positions avail­able. (Great job for Go South Next Semesterstudents) $6.00 start­ing wage. Student exchange programs at: For more info., contact Becky Metzler@ 289-0385 ext 258. Xavier University in New St. Mary's University in ERASMUS BOOKS Orleans San Antonio •Used books bought and sold • 25 categories of Books •25,000 Hardback and Paperback books in stock Clark Atlanta University•Out-of·Print Search Service; $2.00 St. Edward's University in All Notre Dame Juniors Welcome • Appraisals large and small in Atlanta AustinOpen noon to six Tuesday through Sunday Information Meeting 1027 E. Wayne Thursday, October 10, 1996 South Bend, IN 46617 4:00 ~5:00PM (219) 232-8444 125 DeBartolo Hall  


VIEWPOINT 
Thursday, October 10, 1996 
page 9 

GARRY TRUDEAU
• 000NESBURY 
ACTLIAUY, 7HAT'5 NOT TRUE3-I PIP M&AN 7l1 
Mil<£, tuHAT /AI(){}/J? IT TAK& 
FOR. A GIRL 7DG!iTA 5G& 
ONIJ OfANtE lf.I/1H 
' 
• QuoTE OF THE DAY 
"He is immortal, not 
because he alone among creatures has an inexhaustible voice, but because he has a soul, a spirit capable of compas­sion and sacrifice and endurance." 
-William Faulkner 

THE OBSERVER 
NoTRE DAME OFPICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY's OFP!CE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1996-97 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Elizabeth Poran Managing Editors Business Manager Patricia Carson Mm Casey Tom Roland 
News Editor.. . ......... Brad Prendergast Advertising Manager............................ EIIcn Ryan Viewpoint Editor...................Ethan Hayward Ad Design Manager ............................... Jed Peters Spom Editor .....................Timothy Sherman Production Manager.. .................... .Tara Grieshop Accent Editor........ . .. ...........joey Crawford Systems Manager ....................... Michael Brouillet 
Saint Mary's Editor................. Carolinc Blum Controller .......................................... Tyler Weber Pho10 Editor ..........................Mich:u:l Ruma 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the Students of the University ofNorrc Dame duLac and S:~inr Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administra­tion of cidlC·r insritulion. The: news is reported as accurately and objc:crivdy as possible. Unsigned c:di­rorials represent the opinion of rhc: majority of the Ediror-in~Chic:f. Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commenmrics, leucrs and Inside Columns present the views of the authors, and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's com­munity anJ ro .11J rc.:1dns. The free expression of varying opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Ediwr-in-Chief 
Managing Editor/Vic:wpoinl 
Spons 
News/ Pharo 
Accent/Saint Mary's Day Editor/Production 
(~cnerallnformation 
• WHEN PIGS fLY .•• 
Things worth falling for: 
It's fall, and I've started thinking about !leather again. It might be the cold. or just the change of seasons, but J'vn bPPn stopping in front of the Grotto and staring at the candles lately, watch­ing tlw wax drip and wondering how it is that someone can die in less than the limn it takes for a llamn to 11icker out. 

Bernadette Pampuch 
I used to think that there are people who die with a burst of light, and some who just stop twinkling far too early, and that !leather was one of the latter. It wasn't one of those momentous deaths that you read about in the JHLJH~rs; not a dozen schoolchildren gunned down in some random act of vio­lence, not some outrage to rally behind, just a high schooler whose heart stopped beating one day at the lake. I leather was the girl with crazy freckles who sat next to me in art class, and then Heather was the girl that was gone. 
There's not much I remember from high school now that isn't a blur, locker combinations and the homeroom bell and alL I stopped thinking about passing notes and signing yearbooks when I carne to college, but sometimes little things will set me ofT. Senior pictures; not the ones I had taken last week, standing in line at exactly 1:15 to be snapped three, four, live times, but the orws from high school when my mother fussed over me for hours and the pho­tographer made me feel speciaL 
That's what !leather's pictures were like, the ones her parents gave to us after the funeral: Heather in her dress clothes, !leather in soft light, Heather in color, black-and-white. I have them in a 
Observer Phone Lines 

631-4542  Business Office  631-5313  
631-4541  Advertising  631-6900/8840  
631-4543  Systems/Marketing Dept.  631-8839  
631-5323  Office Manager  631-7471  
631-4540  Pax  631-6927  
631-5303  Viewpoint  E-Mail  Viewpoint.! @nd.edu  
631-7471  Ad E-Mail  observer@darwin.cc.nd.edu  

box at home beneath newspaper clip­pings of obituaries and mementos from Mass. 
There are ribbons in that box, red ones. Those are left over from a cam­paign we worked on in ninth and tenth grade, junior and senior year almost. Students Against Driving Drunk. I think it was the reason I met Heather in the first place, even though I'm inclined to think it could just as well have been first-period art class. I don't remember; I just recall a lot of discussions about soap operas and TV theme songs sung too early in the morning to have been a part of any normal school routine. 
There is a copy of my Teen Creed in that box, too, the one my mother gave me sometime junior year. Heather bor­rowed it once, copied down the last line and gave it back. It reads, "If you don't stand for something, you'll fall for any­thing." I never gave that Creed much thought, just got back to the little daily trials of high school and weekly meet­ings with the Pep Club and the Honor Society and sometimes SADD, and Heather. 
We served as committee chairpersons at the same time, planned activities through the year, tied red ribbons on cars. There was the weekend we kept the left-over hamburger coupons from a seat-belt safety campaign and made a run for Wendy's, Heather with a sack of free burgers the size of a car_ 
I've never forgotten to juggle, some­thing she taught me once (a long time ago) that I perfected in the back of Ed Nowak's art class with two erasers and her shoe. She juggled everything better than I ever could. 
Heather was one of those people in my life that I never gave a second thought to being there tomorrow; she died one day in the summer before our senior year of high school, out at the lake with her family in Michigan. A problem with her heart, a hole where there shouldn't have been one, nothing that could have been detected or avoided or forewarned. I 
FRANKlY, ITH\NK IT'S TIM~ FOR. A TRANSPLANT 
Memories of a hiend 

saw her a few days before she died, at a meeting for SADD at our friend Kristin's house where we got together to finish off the summer and plan what we could do for the next year. 
Every time I juggle, I remember how she taught me first one ball, then two, then another. Never more than you can handle at one time. I remember her every time I drive through Wendy's, and every time I see a red ribbon tied on a car. It reminds me of all her work with SADD. 
It's been years now, and we all forget. The newspaper clippings are turning yellow and my mind keeps slipping, but I heard some country singer belting out the lyrics to a song last week when I was driving back to campus down 31. "You've got to stand for something/or you 'II fall for anything.. _" I forget the rest, but I think Heather would have liked the song. 
Somehow, years later, I've managed to resurrect her here in South Bend, Indiana, so far from home. That's what it's all about, then, not about having some reason for her death to rage against but about having a song lyric run through my mind every time I start to waver over getting involved in a new project or every time I try to give some­one a good reason why they should vol­unteer or get involved in a cause. It's the reason I've been telling all my friends lately to appreciate the people in their lives, because sometimes you find out they're gone before you get to thank them for what they've done. 
So Mr. and Mrs. Shore, your daughter did get to go to college, and I was wrong -Heather was not some candle that sputtered out in the dark; she is one of those lights at the Grotto that keep burning on and on. 
Bernadette Pampuch is a senior English Writing major at Saint Mary's College. 



the PROMISE RING 

courtesy of Jade Tree Records 
MANOWAR 

Courtesy of Geffen Records 
I
n 1985 Guy Picciotto, lead soul-bearer of seminal punk band Rites of Spring, sang "And if I started crying would you start crying?'' and a new genre of music was born. 
"Emo" music has since been overgrown, harvested, engineered, and reaped almost to the extent of the Dust Bowl of rock, punk-pop. 
Legions of kids in used postal worker clothes have taken up second-hand instruments, played with their eyes closed, and harmonized screams of loss, love, and liberalism. 
Wisconsin's Promise Ring is the Nutra-Sweetened, Prozac variety of emo. Lyrical themes of barefeet, spring, lips, coke, boys and girls, swimming, and summer frost the palm-muted riffs and fret-sliding melodies. In con­cert, the band bounces, smiles, lisps, and winks to a crowd used to just swaying at the knees. 
Promise Ring plays as tight as the rubber bands in a golf ball. 
The opening chord repetition of "Everywhere in Denver" drives the distance over a snare-heavy drum beat, with perfectly placed breaks and a mountaining eli­maX. 

Louder than Hell 
H
eavy metal has run its course (not to say whether this is necessarily good or bad, though) 
The new generation of so-called hard-core metal bands, such as Type o Negative, Sepultura, and Corrosion of Conformity, have added and alternative feel to the music, and don't have the same edge (or the same group of teenage boys to market themselves to) as did Motorhead, Black Sabbath, Iron Maiden and Judas Priest. 
Yet, according to Manowar on the album Louder than Hell, "The gods made heavy metal and saw that it was good. They said to play it louder than hell; we promised that we would." Now, I don't know which gods they are in touch with but I wish they would share the information with today's, other metal bands. 
If you are not a metal fan this album will do nothing for you. Yet, if you have any appreciation for the roots of heavy metal this will be a relief from the alternative/metal sound that is so abundant. 
The songs rely almost entirely on the rhythm section for a powerful percussive sound. The bass tends to repeat the same riff through entire songs. Each line is choppy and driving: perfect for sporting a tough-guy 

(out of five) 

frown and banging one's head. 
Everything is written in 4/4 time and the drummer is sure to let you know this rather blatantly. It's not a lot of substance, just a lot of power. 
The guitar is mixed into the back of all of this with the obligatory solos being just about the" only time that the same bar chord isn't used. 
In the proper metal fashion the vocals sound like Darth Vader yelling and singing about steel, blood, power, and rebellion. 
The song "King" makes an attempt at being the next rock 'n' roll epic yet after its emotional piano backed intro, it falls back into the simple percussive mode of the rest of the songs. 
Sure, its not the best music critically speaking, but then it's not supposed to be. It's supposed to be rebellious, loud and obnoxious for your parents. 
In our day this style of metal is a novelty and no longer a way of life. Yet, if you are a fan of any old school metal you should appreciate this. 
-by Jason Dorwart 
MARIACHI SOL DE MEXICO La Nueva Era 



I
n the genre of Mexican Mariachi music, there are cer­tain groups that have emerged to the forefront in becoming the type of advertisement that mariachi music needs. One of the premier groups leading the way is the world renown Mariachi Sol de Mexico. 
Mariachi Sol's latest release, La Nueva Era Del Mariachi Sol De Mexico, serves as a great illustration of why this music steadily continues to rise in popularity and appreciation. 
Jose Hernandez, musical director and arranger for Mariachi Sol, has composed great original songs for this latest release. 
Traditionally, Mariachi groups play the inherited songs with new arrangements. However, with Hernandez' musical leadership, Mariachi Sol has combined the tradi­tional with the new. 
These new songs sing the traditional mariachi themes. For example, in "Mi Jalisco" about the state of Jalisco, the birthplace of mariachi music, its themes of patriotism and homage to Mexico are typical characteristics of mari­achi music. 
(out of five) 

Of course, no mariachi CD would be complete without songs explaining the pains and triumphs of love. Mariachi Sol sings these songs passionately, some being original and others classics. 
What mariachi music lovers will enjoy from Mariachi Sol's latest is the group's break from the conventional into new streams of mariachi music. Hernandez again displays his mastery of Mariachi arrangements, as the group plays a tribute to Glenn Miller. Glen Miller songs such as "Moonlight Serenade", and "In the Mood" are featured in this tribute. 
Mariachi Sol is one of the larger Mariachi groups, and thus they have a beautiful orchestra like sound. The sixth track, "Poeta y Campesino," is a classical masterpiece written originally by Franz Von Suppe. Using Mariachi instrumentation, Mariachi Sol plays it with a unique style, and pure beauty. La Nueva Era Del Mariachi Sol De Mexico is a must have for Mariachi fans, and those who just like energetic and entertaining music. 
-by Ian Hernandez 
BLACK47 

(out of five) 

The pop and spring of their live shows is finally evident on 30° Everywhere, the debut full length, after a handful of compilation appearances and seven inches. The boinging bass lines of "Red Paint", "Anne Will You Sing", and "Between Pacific Coasts" take notes from professors of pop-punk, Jawbreaker and Operation Ivy. 
With an ear for melody and a penchant for a hook, Promise Ring get the most out of six strings without rely­ing on beating them to death. Slightly alternating chord pickings and finger slides bend, lift, and break from clean treble to powered distortion and put all five fingers to use, unlike some other bands that could probably play their guitars with paws. 
Singer Jason Gnewikow is the largest lump to swallow, with his straining, overworked pitches. However, sinceri­ty and playing talent always deserve stardom and atten­tion. Unfortunately, in today's marketed music world that means very little. 
-by Brent DiCrescenzo 
V
ery few bands can combine strong activism with the kind of jumpy bar rock that makes audiences take to their feet and dance. Black 4 7 pulls it off marvelously with their fourth album, Green Suede Shoes. 
Make no mistake, Black 47, though definitely an Irish bar band, is very happy with its new home in New York City. Just about every song on the album contains some reference to the Big Apple. 
New York fixtures such as Times Square, Reilly's (a bar that the band enjoys playing in), and even David Letterman figure prominently in the odd world of charac­ters that the band has created for this album. 
With the exceptions of "Brooklyn Girls", a love song; "Mo Bhr6n", a quiet, traditional elegy; and "Rory", a paean to blues guitarist Rory Gallagher; each of the 14 songs on this album sound like old Irish drinking songs. 
Beginning with the first few seconds of the title track (which is played accoustically as the last track) where a rock guitar is suddenly joined by Uillean pipes, a tin whistle and banjo, the band shows its different influ-

Green Suede Shoes 

(out of five) 

ences: rock, reggae, blues, dixieland jazz and the tradi­tional Celtic music of their homeland. 
The only problem with the combination of styles is that lead singer Larry Kirwan tends to "speak-sing" and ignore the rhythm of a song. Often a listener will expect a musical break between lyrics, but Larry keeps rolling. 
The most notable aspect of this album is the guest musi­cians and the odd mixture of rock and Celtic instruments. "Rory" features G.E. Smith, from the old Saturday Night Live Band, playing some blazing blues guitar licks. Seamus Egan, world-famous Celtic banjo player adds his talents to "Czechoslovakia" and "Five Points". 
If you were not fortunate enough to catch this band when they played Alumni-Senior Club last year (a perfor­mance that had a profound impact on the band, as evi­denced by the amount of times Notre Dame shows up on the album cover and interior photos) pick up this album and see what you missed. 
-by Matthew Loughran 
Thursday, October I 0, 1996 
page 11 
• WORLD WIDE WEB WATCH 
New website celebrates freedom throush rock ·n•roll 
By ROCKY POP 
vision to make the major which can be received by the
Special to The Observer 
changes and adjustments entire world. 
that the new reality The nature of such an
T 
he cold war is over. 
demands. expression is significant
Thero is no ideological 
The new reality is border­because the media systems
struggle for power on 
less, unified, populous, unan­of the old reality pit one race
the world scene. 
imously in favor of freedom against another, completely
In the entire history of 
and various forms of democ­disregard the concepts of
mankind there has never 
racy and connected by elec­objectivity and factual repre­
henn. and probably never 
tronic media. The website sentation, and generally pro­
will be. a more significant 
www. surfmedia. com. rock­mote conflict, chaos, and fear
turn of events than this. But. 
music is both the embodi­while highlighting vulgarity. 
as monumental as this fact 
ment and the celebration of All of this is in the interest
is. it has no monument. 
the new reality. of short term corporate prof­
Though it is a landmark in 
The website offers a free its and long term corporate
time it has no exact date. 
download of the song "One," control of the masses.
This ambiguity belittles the 
the definitive anthem of glob­In a reality such as the old
accomplishment. 
al unity and freedom. The one. artistic innovation and
The lack of celebration 
single is one of thirteen creativity are stifled in the
leaves the world in an uncer­
songs on the album name of risk-free investment. 
tain time. vulnerable to new 
Population of Paradise But the people arc finally
eonllid mongers. 
whieh can be ordered direct­free of the tyrants of the
The sense of official 
ly from the website. media because the celebra­
aeknowll!dgnment that we 
This is an expression that tion has already begun.
would get from a ddining 
has not been blocked, fil­Who says rock 'n' roll can't
e1!1Phration would givn us the 
tered, or distorted by large change the world. 
eonfidPnee and clarity of 
corporate structures and 
Top20 
Nocturne I WVFI 
• CLASSICAL COLUMN 
Percussion group hits it .~riff at Snite
"~ ' .~< ;~·~';:~·~~ 

By MICHAEL ANDERSON and JULIE BRUBAKER ·.. A'X:ent MusiC Critics · · 
Crl1mpled papers, beating of household objects, ·and a lot of yelling... ·. . Sounds like someone ha.d a bad day. Actually. it was the· Percussion Group visiting the Snite Museum. 
Last Sunday, the Percussion Group from the Cincinnati Conservatory of Music rocked the Annenberg Auditorium -liter· ally -there was so much noise that the gallery on the third floor of the Suite must have been shaking. 
Entering th.e stage while nearly tripping over their many props, the Pert;ussion Group began with Russell Peck's Uft Off. Written in 1966, this drum piece really sounded like a helicopter lifting olf the ground. 
The performers alternated loud and soft playing techniques to produce a quasi-stereo effect. Their amazing grasp of technique and control made the auditorium feel like it was in the center of a Native American tribal dance. The overall effect was very loud, and the silence was especially striking upon completion of this piece. Perhaps, the Fieldhouse mall might have been a better set· tin g. 
The next piece switched gears, from drums to 'thumb pianos.' Umculo Wa Bathatho (Music for Three) was written for the Percussion Group by a student of theirs from Zulu. They per­formed on tiny pianos (smaller than the size of a laptop computer) that were 'plucked' with the thumbs to produce a high pitched sound. 
The melody was a traditional South African folk song that was spun into a bigger piece. The performers executed the c:het~rful piece without ever looking up or showing any expression. The full chords and intense sound made it apparent their thumbs -were working very hard. Umculo Wa Bathatho began with shifting meter which provided the backdrop for the folk-like melody. nesting on many of the principles of minimalism, the texture was repetitive and became a hypnotizing piece of music. 
The quality of the 'thumb piano' sound was ambiguous. We were not certain if it resembled music played on a Disneyland ride or music heard when your Nintendo character is swimming under­water. In sum, this piece required a great deal of concentration and the often underestimated skill of thumb-ear coordination. 
The last piece that could be classHied as traditional percussion music was the final piece on the program. Four Chilean Songs. This piece, performed simultaneously by all three on a huge Yamaha xylophone, was based on the ancient songs of the Andes Mountains. The four short songs depleted traditional life In Chile, yet had a striking revolutionary flair. 
For this set of songs. percussionists Allen Otte and Russell Burge each played the xylophone with four mallets simultaneously -an amazing feat which they accomplished rather effortlessly. 
The third piece in this set was particularly interesting. It depict­ed the rebuilding of the city of Managua after a volcano and com­bined the xylophone with hammering and sawing sounds. Overall, the piece was a rich musical experience that fully illustrated the story. It was arguably the most lyrical of that afternoon's despite the accompaniment of a saw and hammer. 
It was in this way that the percussionists challenged thtl tradi­tional definition of music. 
Just what is music? A better question might be: what isn't music? Modern composers such as John Cage have argued that music is everything and anything. This means that when you walk across the quad, every sound you hear (even the piercing sounds of a dump truck in reverse) is music. Together, all these sounds form a 'symphony.' 
The four middle pieces in the concert demonstrated that any­thing can be music. 
I Read the News Today. Oh Boy was a 'piece' which consisted of the three men reading random words from the South Bend Tribune aloud and in rhythm, while acting out the scenario of reading the newspaper, and making 'crumbling' noises. 
The point of the piece was to demonstrate that a daily and simple net, such as reading the paper, can have a 'melodic' and 'rhythmic' quaUty-the terms are used loosely. 
The other three pieces, including a medley of John Cage works, were comprised of yelling, beating things (occasionally drums, mostly objects such as pine combs, gongs. pots, sleigh bells. old car parts, and coke cans), and acting out everyday scenarios, such as a game of blackjack. 
They were certainly well·executed, definitely amusing (the little boy sitting in front of us couldn't stop laughing), and possibly musi­cal. If the Percussion Group defines hammering, reading the news· paper, and playing cards as music, then where do we draw the line? 
Maybe we shouldn't draw the line. Maybe the lesson here is to apprer.iate every sound for its musieal qualities. 
This includes classical music. modern music, rap, alternative music, the yelling of children on the playground, the sounds of cars speeding along the highway, the construction noises emitted from the stadium.... 
So the noxt time you're annoyed at some noise, remember that this same sound might be a theme in a John Cage eomposition. If anything can be music, then we should value every sound, even those we don't like. 
1. 
Brendon Benson ­One Mississippi 

2. 
Cake -Fashion Nugget 


3. 
Suzanne Vega ­Nine Objects of Desire 

4. 
Billy Bragg ­


William Bloke 
5. 
Smitten -Stellar 

6. 
The Cardigans ­first band on the moon 


7. Beck -Odelay 
8. 
Phish -"Free" single 

9. 
Luscious .Jackson ­Fever in Fever out 

10. 
Groove Collective ­


We Are the People 
11. 
Emmitt Svvimming ­Arlington to Boston 

12. 
Screamin' Cheetah Wheelies-Magnolia 

13. 
Watsonville -Patio 

14. 
Lazlo Bane ­


Short Style 
15. Reverend Horton Heat 
-SIT 
16. Rusted Root ­
Remember 
17. Social Distortion ­
White Light, White Heat, White Trash 
18. Rasputina ­
Thanks for the Ether 
19. Reel Big Fish ­
Turn the Radio Off 
20. Weezer -Pinkerton 
Nocturne Nightflighl plays the best in col/eqe radio and can be heard on WSNJJ 88.9 FM from midnight to 2 a.m. 
1. 
Beck-Odelay! 

2. 
Weezer -Pinkerton 


3. Archers of Loaf ­
All the Nation's Airports 

4. The Cardigans ­first band on the moon 
5 . .Javvbox -SIT 
6. Squirrel Nut Zippers ­
Hot! 

7. 
Unvvound -Repetition 

8. 
Trainspotting Soundtrack 


9. They Might Be Giants ­
Factory Shovvroom 

10. emiLy-riverrun 
11. The Van Pelt ­
stealing from our favorite thieves 

12. 
Sebadoh -Harmacy 

13. 
Sublime-SIT 

14. 
Edison­"He Player"/"The Ride" 7" 


15. Yo La Tengo ­Selections From... 
16. 
Trampoline ­I Want One of Everybody 

17. 
Yatsura ­


We Are Yatsura 

18. Nevv Bomb Turks ­
Scared Straight 

19. Nerdy Girl -Tvvist Her 
20. Mono Puff -
UnSupervised 

WV/<1 640 AM can be heard on cam­pus between 7 a.m. and 2 a.m. on weekdays, and from 10 a.m. to 2 a.m. on weekends. 

page 12 The Observer • SPORTS _Thursday, October 10, 1996 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. 
Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
Classifieds 
NOTICES 
#######LGBT######## Attention all LESBIAN, GAY, BISEXUAL, and QUESTIONING students, faculty, and staff: National Coming OUT Week is this week. That wonderful group of LGBT students is showing a variety of films for the event. 
Thurs. The Harvey Milk Film 
For times and locations, call the a­LINE at 236-9661. Don't forget to wear your purple ribbons on Friday and join us for our picknic at Stonehenge on Friday from 11:00 to2:00. #######LGBT######## 
!!!!11!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!1!!11!1!1!!1!1!11!!1!1!!!1!11 !!!!! Anyone interested in playing disc golf, call x0509 !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!1!!!!!!!!!!!11!!!!1!!1!!!!!!!!! !!!! 
REMINDER TO 
FIRST YEAR STUDENTS 
in 
CAMPUS COMMUNITY 
INTRODUCTIONS 
SIGN-UP TONIGHT 
CENTER FOR SOCIAL CONCERNS 7:30-8:30 PM SEE YOU THERE! 
SMC alumnae w/ extensive classi­
cal piano training has openings for 
intra. piano lessons, children 8 & 
up. call Meaghen@ 271-7933 
Going to Central Pa along 80 for break, leaving Thurs. Have room for 3, and can drop off along way­Youngstown, Day1on, Cleve, etc. 234-9533. 
THAT PRE1TY PLACE, Bed and 
Breakfast Inn has space available 
for football wknds. 5 Rooms with 
private baths, $70 -$90, 
Middlebury, 30 miles from campus. 
Toll Road, Exit #107, 
1-800-418-9487 
Textbooks bought/sold/traded 
5 blks south on ND Ave. 
233-2342. Pandora's Books. 
ILOST & FOUND I 
Lost Golden Medallion of Jesus and His Sacred Heart Sentimentally Irreplaceable REWARD Call Jeremy x-1045 
Found. Photo negative with two exposures. One with 5 small chil-. dren and one with 3 small children playing outside. Found near Fitzpatrick Hall. Call Judy at 1­5380 or stop by 156 Fitzpatrick Hall. 
LOST:Rockhurst class ring '93, Black neck band with silver eagle and balck Acqua watch at Stepan volleball courts, on Sun, 9/29@2pm Tomx0573 
REWARD 
REWARD 
REWARD 
I'VE LOST MY CAMERA GIVEN 
TO ME BY MY SONS ON MY 50TH 
BIRTHDAY. 
CAMERA LOST IN THE HUDDLE 
ON SUNDAY AFTER OHIO STATE 
GAME. 
CAMERA DESCRIPTION: 
RICOH MODEL Z-1002. 
PLEASE CALL PAUL PENDER­
GAST AT 
860-651-1911. 
LOST: Blue Computer Diskette 
labelled "Letter Perfect 1" on Wed 
Oct 2, Hesburgh cluster. If found, 
please call Jeanne @ 287-5467. 
WANTED 
ROOMMATE NEEDED, SUPER 
RIVERFRONT HOME, $300 .STU­
DENT OR PROFESSIONAL 683­
3720 DAYS. 
BARTENDER. part time evenings and weekends. Cocktail, breakfast and banquet SERVERS. part time for evening lounge and breakfast/lunch restaurant. Good pay and steady hours for experi­enced dependable people. Located three miles from campus. Please apply in person, Varsity Clubs of America. Main and Edison in Mishawaka. 

Earn MONEY and FREE TRIPS!! Absolute Best SPRING BREAK Packages available!! INDIVIDUALS, student ORGANIZA­TIONS, or small GROUPS wanted!! Call INTER-CAMPUS PROGRAMS at 1-800-327-6013 or http://www.icpt.com 
Ride needed during Fall Break anywhere in New England area, NY, or NJ. Will help w/ driving and gas. Please call #1358 
I'm looking for Washington or Pitt tickets. Call Gregg at 273-1007 
HUGE ND FAN DESPERATE FOR 5 GAs FOR RUTGERS. CALL PAT (813)360-2243. 
Hundereds of Students Are Earning Free Spring Break Trips & Money! Sell 8 Trips & Go Free! Bahamas Cruise $279, Cancun & Jamaica $399, Panama City/Day1ona $119! www.springbreaktravel.com 1-800-678-6386 
...FREE TRIPS & CASH'" Find out how hundreds of student representatives are already earning FREE TRIPS and LOTS OF CASH with America's #1 Spring Break company! Sell only 15 trips and travel free! Cancun, Bahamas, Mazatlan, Jamaica, or Florida! CAMPUS MANAGER POSITIONS ALSO AVAILABLE. Call Now! TAKE A BREAK STUDENT TRAV­EL (800)95-BREAK! 
SPRING BREAK 
Cancun, Mazatlan From $399 
Lowest price guaranteed! 
Sell 15 trips and travel free +cash! 
Call Sunbreaks 1-800-446-8355 
Ride needed: BOSTON area for 
OCT. break. $ Will helppay 
gas,etc.$ call X1408 
FOR RENT 
WALK TO CAMPUS 
2-3-4-5 BEDROOM HOMES 
232-2595 
Need a place to stay on football 
weekends? 
Furnished apartment for short term 
rent. Full kitchen, living room, two 
bedrooms, sleeps 4+. Call287­
4876. 

BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY 
Private Homes for Football, 
JPW, Graduation, etc. 
219-291-7153 
THE PRIMROSE PATH B&B, locat­ed 20 minutes north of campus, is a 1905 Victorian with 4 quiet guest rooms. Bountiful full breakfasts. "Michiana Now!" Reader's choice as one of "Michiana's Best of 1996". http://www.laketolake.com/inns/prim rosepath/directorypage 616-695-6321 
ROOMS IN PRIVATE HOME FOR 
ND-SMC EVENTS. 
IDEAL FOR FOOTBALL WEEK­
ENDS. 
VERY CLOSE TO CAMPUS. 
243-0658. 
1 & 2 BDRMS AVAIL NOW. NEAR CAMPUS. GILLIS PROPERTIES 272-6306 
FOUR SISTERS INN bed & bkfst 
home. Rms avail for football week­
ends, JPW & grad. 2 miles from 
campus. 219.287.6797 
FOR SALE 
Mac llci 20 meg RAM 
200 meg Hard Drive 
Monitor CD Modem 
Programs $800 
272 4258 
Mac llci 20 meg RAM 
200 meg Hard Drive 
Monitor CD Modem 
Programs $800 
272 4258 
FREE TRIPS & CASH! Sell SKI 
& SPRING BREAK beach trips. 
Hottest places & coolest spaces. 
Call immediately Student Express, 
Inc. 1-800-SURFS-UP. 
90 VW JETIA BLACK 2DR SNRF 
5SPD MINT $6500 OBO 277-3569 
LUGGAGE CARRIER for top of car, like new. $50. 616-684-6249. 
ND vs. Navy four hard to find mini tour packages JFK to Dublin to JFK Depart 10/31/96 Return 11/4/96 Includes Airfare, Dublin Hotel, and Game Ticket At Our Cost, $1199 per person call (518)-329-1341 
...FOR SALE-I WA GA & 1 AF STUD. B/0. 234-9533."• 
TICKETS 
NOTRE DAME GA'S WANTED ALL GAMES HOME AND AWAY 232-0058 24 HRS. BUY -SELL-TRADE 
TICKET-MART, INC. 
WANTED: NOTRE DAME GA'S ANY/ALL GAMES. PLEASE CALL 232-0061. 
I NEED FOOTBALL GA'S! 
WILL BEAT ANY OFFER! 
CALL 243-1287 
BUYING G.A.'S FOOTBALL 
312.404.4903 
Need Washington Tix-Stud or GA. 
Will buy or trade. Matt 271-3683 
Need 2 GAs for WA. or OH. game Cristina@ x2339 
Need lots of Washington tix-GA or student. Call Meghan @232-7839. 
NEED 2 GAs for Washington game! Call Megan at 243-9047 
NEED GA for Washington game. 
Call Suzy X4034 
need 5 WASH ga's or stud tix $$$ 
x2646 
Need 3 Rutgers GA's 
Call Erik @3807 
FOR SALE 2 GA's ALL HOME 
GAMES 235-3394 
ALUM NEEDS GA's 
for WASH, AF, PITI & RUTGERS 
618-274-2990 M-F 8am-6pm 
I need 2 WASHINGTON GA's $$$Please call Laura$$$ @ (219)284-4396 
I need 3 AIR FORCE GA's $$$Please call Laura$$$ @ (219)284-4396 
Dave Mathews/Black Crowes 1st 1 0 Rows 232-0058 
SELL GA Wsh tix 2775931 
NEED 4 TIX 
FOR AIR FORCE 
FOR MY FAMILY 
CHRIS @0788 
I NEED 4 AIR FORCE GA'S 
CALL STEVE AT •o867 
WANTED: 2 WASH GAs or STUD. 
upgrade FOR PARENTS. WILL 
PAY OR TRADE 2 RUTG. GAs 
CALL DAVE@ 4-1913 
NEED 4 AF GA'S FOR OUR PARENTS. CALL CHRISTINE OR SONIA @ 243-9433. 
NEED ONE GA FOR SENIOR'S 
FATHER-LAST CHANCE FOR 
HIM! 
PLEASE CALL BRIAN 287-4876 
bless you 
NEED WASH GA'S FOR FAMILY 
WILLING TO PAY$$$$$$$$$$$ 
PLEASE CALL 273-2687-MARK 
OR 243-9476-KATE 
HELP-NEED 2 WA GA'S OR STU 
TIX CALL KATIE 289-4922 
Stud TIX BOOK 
4 Sale -X1413 
HELP! 
I still need 4 WASH. GAs 
call Chrissy @ 273-2580 
I need 2 Washington GA's and 4 Air Force GA's. Please call Jessica @ 273-5833. 
Needed: 3 Wash. and 5 Air Force 
GA's. Call Eric at 271-9069. 
I NEED 4 WASHINGTON TICK­ETS, EITHER STUDENT OR GA'S. PLEASE CALL MICHELLE AT 288­1542!!! 
Wash. GA for sale. B/0 X1308 

HAVE RUTGERS GA'S, NEED PITI GA'S. TRADE? 277-3609. 
WASHINGTON TIX NEEDED, HAVE RUDGERS TIX TO TRADE CALL MIKE 243-9366. 
Need 2 non-converted GA's togeth­er for Wash,$180 for pair @0538 
4 Wash. GA's for sale-face value! Call Steven 4x1159 
N.D. Football tickets bought & sold. 219-232-2378 a.m. 288-2726 p.m. 
wash stu ticket for sale X 4215 
Have 2 Pitt tix; need 2 BC tix! Please call Patti at (610)775-5144 
NEED 1 WASH GA for sister. Call Joe @ 
234-0826 

2 reg. GAs for Wash. for sale Call (219) 250-3150 
Needed: 2GA's for AF game. Will pay$$$$. Call 4-4306. 
Needed: 2 pairs of GA's for 
Wash. Please call 4-4306. 
BLACK CROWES 
KISS 

Black Crowes: SB, 10/12, Row 0 
Kiss: 10/15, 32nd row, floor 
Call 237-2111 or 234-5881 after 
5pm 

NEED 2 WASH GA TIX. 
CONV. OR REG. 

CALL ALEX @ 232-7324 
NEED 1 OR 2 WASH GA'S 
PLEASE CALL COREY @4101 
NEED 1 OR 2 WASH GA'S 
PLEASE CALL COREY @41 01 
·wASH GA FOR SALE• 
EXCELLENT SEATS 
LEAVE B/0@ 0878 
-> NEED WASH STUDENT 
TIX CALL KEITH AT 0873 <-­
WANTED: 3 GA or upgraded stu­dent tix to the Air Force game . Call Jamie 4-1501 . 
I NEED WASH STUD TIX 243-9357 
Washington GA 4 sale.1-4009. 
5pm-9pm. 

I need 4 GA's for Wash. at least two together and no student GA's. If you can help, please call Brian @ x2182 
Need 2 Air Force G.A.'s 
Call 634-1632 
up for grabs! 

2 Washington GA's! I ! 
Best Offer, 634-1632 
2 WASH GAs 4-sale! Best Offer 
4-1676 Andy 

!@#$%"&.()!@#$%"&•()#$%"&· 
I NEED WASHINGTON TIX 
ND '96 ALUM 

1-800-345-0275 EXT. 234 
!@#$%"&"()!@#$%"&·()@#$%" 
Wanted 
2 GAs for Wash 
Brian 271-9043 

STUDENT FOOTBALL TIX FOR 
SALE-ALL GAMES!!! 
call James X 1658 
Academy Grad 
NEEDS 2 GAs 
for AIR FORCE 
call Emily x1480 

Will trade 2 Rutgers GAs for 2 Pitt 
GAs. Call Erin #4030 
Help -I need a Wash GA call Beth @4265 
NEED TIX FOR PITI & BC 
Victoria x0781 

Helpllll Need a GA for the Air 
Force game. Ask for Tina 
4-3113. 

•..NEED 3 AIR FORCE GAs•" CALL PETE @ 4-0975 
I Have 2 GA's for Air Force and Pitt. Call me with best offer. Kristin @ 243-1321 NEED WAGAs. $$$ x-1489 
NEED ONE RUTGERS TICKET II Call Elena x2900 
NOTRE DAME GA'S WANTED ALL GAMES HOME 
AND AWAY 
232-0058 
24 HRS. BUY -SELL -TRADE 
TICKET-MART, INC. 
WANTED: NOTRE DAME GA'S ANY/ALL GAMES. PLEASE CALL 232-0061. 
$$$$$$ I NEED GA OR FACULTY TIXS ALL HOME GAMES. 272-6551 
n. d. tickets for sale 271 1635 
$NEED OSU, WASH, & AF TIX 216-995-1902 5-7 PM EDT M-F 216-650-5264 7-9 PM EDT M-F 
NEED 2-4 GA TIX ALL HOME GAMES. CALL 276-2010/288-2877 AFT 5 
ND DAD NEEDS TWO (2) GAs 
FOR WASHINGTON. CALL LARRY (219)422-6088 
GA Football Tix -Buy/Sell 
67 4-7645 -No student or student 
conv. 
Need 2 Air F. GA's 
Amy 616-473-5825 
NEED WASHINGTON TICKETS­HAVE AF, PITI, RUTGERS TICK­ETS TO TRADE. CALL WORK 601-893-5352 OR HOME 901-755­4273 
NEED 2 GAS FOR WASH GAME 
FOR PARENTS 
PLEASE CALL KAREN X4421 
Leaving for Fall Break? 
I'd love your AF Tickets! Having friends in! Please call Jen or Sarah -243-9019 
HELP!! Need 3 Air Force Stud tix 
or GA's. Pis call Anne @2625 
Two Washington GA's needed for family from Calif. Call Dave x2030 
I need 2 non-student GAs for Air 
Force. Call FRANK at 4-3323. 
Desperately needed UW tickets. 
Please call Carey @ 232-0885 
NEED BC & WASH TIX 
312-951-5008 
WANTED 4 Tickets to AirForce 
Notre Dame Game. Call Collect 
901-795-6724. 
"FOR SALE WASH GA Paul 283­
0392/0397. 
FOR SALE AirForce StudTix 
Paul 283-039210397. 
2Wash.stud.tix 
lv.offer on vmail 
2597or2626 
WANT 2 or 3 Non convert 
AF GA's, John 634-4219 
Senior ND Band member needs 
Wash GAs so parents & aunt can 
experience ND. Call Alyssa 1554 
NEED WASH TIX have 2 Pitt and 2 AF to trade Call Pete M. 287-5277 
2 WASH GA's 4 sale B.O. 4-4045 
1 Wash GA for sale, b/o 
Mike 234-8129 
Leave offer on machine 
Have Wash., Pitt., and A. F. GA's. 
Will trade for B.C. tix or to highest 
bidder. Stephen 607-336-7218 
For Sale 2 AF GA. call237-0072 
Washington GA's F.S. call254-912 
NEED 2 RUTGERS TIX 
Call Pat X3015 
PERSONAL 
Is this one of those rare times when we're NOT talking about beer? 
Dave Barry IS the FUNNIEST man 
in America. 
See tomorrow's Accent. 
#######LGBT######## Attention all LESBIAN, GAY, BISEXUAL, and QUESTIONING students, faculty, and staff: National Coming OUT Week is this week. That wonderful group of LGBT students is showing a variety of films for the event. 
Thurs. The Harvey Milk Film For times and locations, call the a­LINE at 236-9661. Don't forget to wear your purple ribbons on Friday and join us for our picknic at Stonehenge on Friday from 11:00 to 2:00. #######LGBT######## 
FAX IT FAST! I! Sending & Receiving at 
THE COPY SHOP LaFortune Student Center Our Fax# (219) 631-FAX1 
FAX IT FAST!!! 
0 DISCOVER THE COPY SHOP 0 in the LaFortune Student Center Mon. 7:30am -Midnight Tues. 7:30am -Midnight Wed. 7:30am -Midnight Thur. 7:30am -Midnight Fri. 7:30am -7:00pm Sat. Noon -6:00pm Sun. Noon -Midnight (closed home football Saturdays) 
Who's Afraid of Virginia Woolf? 
KEENAN UNDERGROUND THE MAGIC OF ERIC MYERS 
and SHENANIGANS appearing in Keenan Kommons Saturday October 12 
10:00 PM KEENAN UNDERGROUND 
Stepan Center Court Time scheduling meeting for any organizations wanting to reserve 
weekly court time at Stepan: Wednesday, Oct. 16 4pm -Montgomery Theatre 1st Floor LaFortune. 
The Gamblers will soon be reunit­ed! 
Congratulations to Katie Dillenburger and 
Matt Trosper Winners of color TVs at North & South Dining Halls in Nabisco's A-1 Steak Sauce promotion 
Come see what all the buzz is aboutl!!l 
SKAKOHOLICS Returning to Jazzman's Nile Club TONIGHT, Thursday, October 10 @ 10:30 
•"Skankin' and Scorin'W" 
TONITEI!I!!I! Come see ELSIE'S PROMISE one last time before fall break. at Club 23 Thursday, Oct. 10 @10:30 pm WELCOME TO THE PROMISELAND 
The price is WRONG, B""l 
We need some more Boo Williams­like players. 
Lost : Gold crcuifix lost saturday somewhere on campus. Extreme sentimental value. If found, call Dave at 4-1238. 
Someone told me a don't have an accent. So there you go, smartass. 

KC, I will miss you alot but all I have to say is December 5th, DAVE, and bleeding eyes!!! 70 miles to go 
MB & Kev, you guys rock. Thanks for suffering through this psychotic yesr with me. 
FOR SALE!! Wash Stud. Tix. Call x3518 
Tenille. did you get my e-mail? If any of this message is altered, blame Liz. She is a conniving, uh person. 
Oh Tenille,you're so stong. Hold me 
Nothing cheesey and Iavey-dovey in here boys .... 
Oh Ethan, you're so strong. Hold Brad. 
KC&Sarah: Thanks for nursing me today. 

Thursday, October I 0, 1996 The Observer • SPORTS page 13 
• COLLEGE fOOTBAll •NHl 
Hurricane hopes to Shanny headed to Motor City devastate Seminoles 
By CHRISTINE HANLEY Rutherford said. time for Saturday's game in 
By STEVEN WINE 
A<soci.tnl Press Writer 
COH/\L GABLES, Fla. 
Florida State's rout of Miami last year lef'l wide receiver Magic Benton wanting to switch teams. Again. 
Benton scored his first earner touchdown for the llurrieanes, but that was small consolation in a 41-17 defeat. Taunts of "traitor!" from Florida State fans made him foe! that much worse. 
"lie told me al'ter the game that lw thought he should have come to Florida State," Seminoles defensive back .James Colzie said Wednesday. "But that's a decision he'll havH to livo with." 
Benton. a Miami native who onen signed a letter of intent with Florida State, confirms that hn brinf1y regretted ending up with thn llurricanes. But as Saturday's showdown looms between the third-ranked Snminoles and sixth-ranked llurricanes, Benton pledges al­lngiance to Miami. 
"I'm where I belong," the sophomore said. "I could have been happy at Florida State, hut not as happy as I am now. Now I can go home and visit my mom any time I feel like 
it." 

It's no surprise Benton has become a top receiver and breakaway threat. He was one of the most highly regarded prep players in the state when he signed with the Seminoles in 1994. 
"We only signed one wide re­ceiver, and he was the one we wanted," coach Bobby Bowden recalled. 
But Benton fell one class shy of the NCAA's core-course ni­quirements, which made his commitment non-binding. He sat out a year, took the class and changed his mind. 
In 1995, he signed with Miami and new coach Butch Davis. 
"I just wanted to stay close to my family and have my mom come to the games and watch me play," Benton said. 
"Absolutely no hard feel­ings," Bowden said. 
Some Seminoles disagree. They resent the reverse Benton ran. 
"I have a message for him: He made the wrong decision," said Colzie, a Miami native. "We're going to try to make life miserable for him." 
Benton, meanwhile, hopes to make the Seminoles sorry they let him get away. 
Associated Press Writer 
HARTFORD, Conn. 
The Hartford Whalers traded former captain Brendan Shanahan and defenseman Brian Glynn to the Detroit Red Wings on Wednesday for center Keith Primeau, defenscman Paul Coffey and a first-round draft pick in 1997. 
The trade, which had been rumored for almost a week be­fore nearly unraveling, was fi­nally forged about three hours before the Detroit Red Wings' home opener Wednesday night. Detroit had their private team plane standing by to get Shanahan to Detroit in time for the game. 
"Hockey-wise I think every­body knows he's hard-nosed," Detroit coach Scotty Bowman said. "I don't know how many people there are like him in the league. He's a winger, a power winger that can score. Obviously, that's what we're expecting." 
· The keys in the deal were Primeau and Shanahan, two players in the prime of their NHL careers, both of whom were unhappy in with their clubs. 
The trade. appeared dead after Coffey, one of the main­stays for three of the Edmonton Oilers' four Stanley Cup 

Coffey was expected to be traded to a third team, not im­mediately announced. The Rod Wings said they would send Glynn to the minor leagues. 
"All I know is I'm out of here," Coffey said as he brushed past reporters at Joe Louis Arena on Wednesday. ''I'd rather not say anything more." 
Bowman, who is also the Red Wings general manager, said Coffey refused to speak to him. 
"It's not easy," Bowman said. "I think everybody know that. Paul's been traded before and it's unfortunate. Most of the times he's been traded it's not a result of his play on the ice or what he can bring a team. It's mainly his contract." 
The 27-year-old Shanahan, who has two years and $7.9 million remaining on a three­year contract, was pegged by the Whalers as a scoring star who was going to help salvage the embattled franchise. He led led the team last season with 44 goals, but requested a trade last month citing a desire to play for a more stable fran­chise. 
The Whalers, who missed the playoffs for the fourth straight year last season, have two years remaining on a contract with the city and have indicat­ed the· franchise would proba­Florida. However, Huthorford said he wouldn't rule out enter­taining trade offers for Coffey. 
"These players are both pro­fessionals ... and we expect them to report as soon as pos­sible," Rutherford said, adding that Hartford is a better team primarily because the Shanahan issue is resolved. 
Coffey, 35, is tho NIIL's career scorer leader among defenseman with 1,410 points. Primeau, 24, had 27 goals and 25 assists last season. 
Primeau will be expected to help fill the void loft by Shanahan. 
"He's a big center iceman. lie can help our team play in the Eastern Conference. He can quarterback the power play," Rutherford said. "lie's a big strong guy, and he can intimi­date." 
Glynn, 28, played two sea­sons in Hartford after being acquired on waivers from Vancouver in .January 1995. He scored two goals and 10 assists in 98 games last season for the Whalers. 
The future home of the Whalers has been hanging in a cloud of doubt since the end of last season, when a much bal­lyhooed campaign to sell 11,000 season tickets fell far short of its ambitious goal. 
In the midst of the ticket cru­


·. 
.. 
Thursday, October 10, 1996
The Observer • SPORTS

page 14 
• COLLEGE fOOTBALL

•NBA 
Shaq brings the Pancake Pace ready for Badgers 
guises so well." overplay some people.
'magic' to Lakers No. 2 Buckeyes 
Even a 330-pound opponent There has been some talk 
By JIM LITKE 
Associated Press Writer 
Most people who leave town with too little accomplished and too much of someone else's money know enough to keep it to themselves. So mark this down as one more way in which Shaquille O'Neal is not like most people. 
He took. He ran. He couldn't resist rubbing it 

in. 
''I'm just glad to be playing now for people who know the game and know the business," Shaq said in an interview ear­
lier this week with the Los Angeles Times. 
NBA training camps just opened and the start of the season is still a month away. So it will be some time before the truth of that statement is known. Not the part about O'Neal being glad to play for the Lakers, of course, but the second part. That bit about the organization being so well-in­formed. Two months ago, Los Angeles signed Shaq to a seven-year, $121-million deal. If the past turns out to be pro­logue, what they will get for that sum is a little heartache and a lot of regrets. 
At least that's the way things worked out for Orlando Magic. And this might be what the or­ganization regrets most: For all the things the money lav­ished on Shaq through four seasons didn't buy -loyalty, appreciation, an NBA champi­onship, -it didn't even guar­antee his silence. 
The Magic drafted O'Neal in 1992, turned over the keys to the house and let him do everything pretty much his way. The team ran the offense he wanted, surrounded him with the players he wanted, let him run off to attend to side businesses when he wanted. renegotiated his contract when he demanded and pretty much saw to it that Shaq was among the most-contented players in the league. Nothing unusual there. 
Because it is a five-man game, basketball is one sport where an impact player is just that -both immediately and for a long time. And so teams where the tail appears to be wagging the dog are the rule and not the exception. It hap­pens in towns where manage­ment is shrewd __! think Michael Jordan in Chicago ­and in towns where manage­ment is clueless -think everywhere Derrick Coleman has been. And it happened with Shaq in Orlando, with results somewhere in be­
tween. 
Orlando made it to the play­offs for the first time in 1994, only to be swept out of the first round by Indiana. In

-1995, the Magic made the 
0~;T\-IOPEDIC Sp€ 
~0s ~~ c~<: ~'?' ~y /<5';­
Quick Service-Reasonable 
• 
Fix any leather goods 

• 
Replac_e zipper -Shines 


• Orthopedic & Pedorthic Specialist 

I00% Guarantee 8-6 Monday­Friday 9-3 -Saturday I 025 East Madison 
288-6211 

finals, only to be swept by Houston. Earlier this spring, they made the conference finals against the Bulls ... and did their customary four-and­out swoon. 
Not long after that, the bid­ding war with Los Angeles began. It was supposed to have ended when O'Neal passed up Orlando's last offer for $115 million. But then Magic general manager John Gabriel gave a speech some­where and did some sniping at O'Neal. It struck a nerve the organization had been search­ing for since drafting Shaq; he responded with a ferocity he never showed in the fourth quarter of playoff games. 
"Money isn't everything. I don't play for money," he said, which is what ballplayers al­ways say but almost never 
mean. 
"I can remember days grow­ing up when I didn't have any­thing. I didn't have sneakers, I didn't have shorts, nothing. But I played. The money is there. It's great, don't get me wrong. But it was the best offer because of the players surrounding me, the staff, the organization." 
O'Neal then knocked his old teammates, singling out Nick Anderson, for wanting the ball too often, and his former coach, Brian Hill, for encour­aging that kind of play. It's called teamwork, though Shaq could not bring himselfto pro­nounce the word in four sea­sons there. 
"I used to go in the locker room and get on guys. and he would say, 'Don't do that. You're gonna hurt his feel­ings.' I said, 'Look, man, this is the professionals, bro. You're the coach. They've got to do what you say. If they don't do what you say, there's two places they can go -either the bench or to a new team. Period."' 
There it is, whether you wanted to know what caused the breakup or not. Magic team president Bob Vander Wiede said in a statement Tuesday night that his organi­zation "will not respond to any furth-er comment that Shaq might choose to make about his past with us." 
look to continue winning streak 
Associated Press Writer 
MADISON, Wis. 
Wisconsin defensive end and outside linebacker Tarek Saleh says he's working on ways to avoid becoming the latest "pancake" registered by Ohio State tackle Orlando Pace. 
The No. 2 Buckeyes are keeping track of the times the 330-pound Pace dumps a defender as flat as a ... (you guessed it) pancake. 
Going into Saturday's game with the Badgers. Pace has 29 pancakes in four games, including seven in the Buckeyes' 38-7 win over Penn State last Saturday. 
So how does a defensive 
player stay out of Pace's pan­
cake stats? 
Saleh said the answer is sim­
ple: Don't go near him. 
"Just basically stay away," 
Saleh said. 
"For that split second after 
he gets his hands on you," 
Saleh explained, "if he gets his 
legs underneath him, then, 
he's going to body-slam you. 
And, then, you're done." 
"Orlando has the special tal­
ent of playing his best football 

in big games," said Ohio State 
coach John Cooper. "We went 
his way a lot against Penn 
State and most of the time he 
buried whoever was across 
from him. 

Pace, a 6-foot-6, 20-year-old 
junior from Sandusky, Ohio, 
was given a nickname by 
Cooper: "the Big Dog." 

"He's by far the best offen­
sive lineman that I've seen," 
Cooper said. 

"He's probably the best 
technique player in football," 
said Notre Dame defensive end 
Melvin Dansby of Pace. "He's 
got great fundamentals and 
great feet." 

"He's like an NFL player," 
Saleh said. "He's a technician. 
He knows his stuff. And he dis­like Pace can be subtle, Dansby said. 
"He's one of those passive blockers who tries to get posi­tion on you, and then he tries to slam you," Dansby said. 
Can a defense compensate for Pace's giant presence? 
"You really have a hard time doing that," said Wisconsin coach Barry Alvarez. "You have to anticipate what might happen, where the ball is going to be run and maybe that Cooper may give Pace the chance to play fullback, maybe even carry the ball. 
"I think he could be good at any position he played," said OSU nose tackle Luke Pickell. "He's got incredible athletic ability for somebody as big as he is. It's just obvious." 
Just as obviously, Saleh knows what he has to do. 
"I have to stay away from 
him," he said. "I just don't 
know if it's possible." 


Goldman, Sachs, & Co. 
invites University of Notre Dame undergraduates to an information session to explore opportunities in the 
Investment Banking Division 
Monday, October 14, 1996 
The Morris Inn  
0  
The Notre Dame Room 8:00p.m.  GoldmanSac lis  
casual attire  I  

Thursday, October I 0, 1996 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 15 
Campus Ministry ••• 
Considerations••• 

MAYBE WE ALL HAVE SOMETHING TO LEARN FROM FRESHMEN 
Not being a freshman, I was delighted to be a part of the Freshman Retreat which took place on campus this past weekend. The Freshman Retreat is an overnight retreat which gives first-year students at Notre Dame the opportunity to gather with their peers and to catch their breath, if you will. This past weekend's retreat, the sixth of its kind since the program began last year, had 51 participants. I had the privilege, along with nearly twenty Notre Dame students, of being on the 
retreat team. 
For those of us far removed from our first year of college, it proved a reminder of the significant upheavals that such a transition presents, and still more, a rare opportunity to be reminded of the significant adventure upon which these young men and women have only recently embarked. Any temptation that I might have had before this weekend to idealize the first months of college were quickly dis­pelled but so, too, was any inclination I might have had to patronize this crowd. I was humbled by the honesty, by the vulnerability that they felt able to relate in such a setting, and by how much even first-year college students have to teach us about life and faith. 
There were moments on this retreat that made me feel like there were significantly fewer than sixteen years since I was a first-year student at the University of St. Thomas in St. Paul, Minnesota. Some of what a first-year college student experi­ences is generalizable to any transition, but some is not. What I found myself 
most curious about is the degree to which the adjustment was helped or hindered by their being at Notre Dame. In some ways it's an inculturation process that affects both the new students and those of us who have been here. Inevitably, we are richly enhanced by the gifts and experience that each of them brings. 
It seems only fitting that this group gather, and gather early in their life together at Notre Dame, to come to know each other, to share faith and experience, and to be familiarized with the opportunities that Notre Dame provides in the ways of faith and service. The team of sophomores, juniors, and seniors, many of whom spoke to the entire group and all ofwhom provided leadership in their respective small groups, modeled a remarkable degree of commitment to this place we call Notre Dame, and the values which we hold dear and so proudly proclaim. 
I find myself wanting, on the one hand, to say something to the first-year students out there who will, in the future, have an opportunity to participate on a Freshman Retreat, and on the other, to speak to the rest of this community about how much we have to learn from them, and how important is our welcome of them. You are no doubt relieved to know that the space of this column forbids me from doing either. If there is to be an appeal here it is simply that we remember that all of us are in this together; and that the quality and care with which we receive and welcome the newest members of our community reflects powerfully the character of this community as a whole. 
As a community commi;ted to the Gospel ofJesus Christ, it is the responsibility of each of us to care for the other. The Freshman Retreat program provides one such opportunity, but there are many more. The Office of Campus Ministry and the Center for Social Concerns, among others, provide a multitude of opportunities to live out the faith we profess. It seems to me that it's worth our while to check them out. In the end, as I was, you may prove to be the one better served than those you sought to serve. 
Jim Lies, C.S.C 

Campus Ministry Events 
Thursday, October 10 -Thursday, October 17 
November 8 9 Freshman Retreat for the residents of Badin, Planner, Lewis, O'Neill, Pasquerilla East, St. Ed's, Walsh and Zahm Sign-up through Monday, November 4 
Power Lunch: Voting and Values Thursday, October 10, 12:45-1 :45p.m., Faculty Dining Room 
Evening for Hispanic Freshmen Tuesday, October 15, 5:3.0-7:00p.m., St. Joe Hall (Sacred Heart Parish Center) 
Campus Bible Study · Tuesday, 7:00p.m. Campus Ministry-Badin Hall 
KAIROS (4th Day): Prayer of Centering (Take a break from mid-terms!) Wednesday, October 16, 7:30p.m., Chapel of the Holy Cross (Stanford-Keenan Chapel) 
Power Lunches and other eve~ts will resume after fall break 
TWENTY,EIGHTH SUNDAY IN ORDINARY TIME 
WEEKEND PRESIDERS  
Saturday  AT SACRED HEART BASILICA October 12 Half hour Most Rev. Thomas1. Murphy, D.O.  Scripture Readings For This  -..·  
after the game  Coming Sunday  
Sunday  October 13  8:00a.m.  Rev. Thomas Blantz, C.S.C.  
Saturday  October 12  10:00 a.m. Rev. Peter Rocca, C.S.C. 11:45 a.m. Rev. Patrick Neary, C.S.C. Saturday Mass at Stepan Center 45 min after Rev. Richard Warner, C.S.C.  1st Reading 2nd Reading Gospel  Isaiah 25: 6,10 Philippians 4: 12,14, 19,20 Matthew 22: 1,14  
the game  

page 16 The Observer • SPORTS Thursday, October 10, 1996 
Buffalo signal caller to return 

Kelly eager to return against Dolphins 
By BUCKY GLEASON Associated Press Writer 
ORCHARD PARK, N.Y. 

Jim Kelly has been waiting three weeks to play anyone, anywhere. It appears the Buffalo Bills' quarterback will get the best of both worlds Sunday. 
Kelly, out with a hamstring injury since Sept. 19, is expect­ed to start this week against the arch-rival Miami Dolphins in a critical matchup between the two AFC East rivals at Rich Stadium. 
"When you haven't played well, you want to get back in there as soon as possible and try to get those erased from your memory," Kelly said. "I know we're 4-1, but my season starts this week." 
If there's a game Kelly does not want to miss, it's the one against the Dolphins. Buffalo and Miami (3-2) have had one of the most heated rivalries for years, and the Bills have won 10 of the last 12 meetings at home. 
Buffalo coach Marv Levy, as is his custom, refused to say whether his star quarterback would be ready Sunday. Levy wanted the Dolphins to make preparations for the veteran and second-year backup Todd Collins. 
"The only reason I wouldn't start is if I aggravated it again," Kelly said. "Right now, the way they had taped and the way I felt, and the way my arm felt, I should be able to go. But it's a hamstring injury and could pop at any given time." 
Kelly's last outing was one of the worst of his 11-year career. He threw four intercep­
Li·ving Out tlie qospe{ofLife 
rrfiree CEvenings ofPraye·r, CJ?sffectionJ Song <11/a{sfi Jfa[[ Cfiape[oftfie Visitation 
~•.<)1. rPrayerfor tlie Condemned'' Joe CJ{pss, C.S. C 
Oil worf.jng On aeatfi row reJoices of(Faitfz ~]ospe[ Cfzoir 7:00pm, CJ'uesaay, 8 Octoher 
t""'·')t Prayerfor tlie (Dying'' 
(Dr. (L)av£cf rtoung, :NlD '77 
on faitfi animccficine '!Tie 'Notre (Dame Po(k,Cfioir 7:00pm, 11iursaay, 10 Octo6er 
t>•-')1 Prayerfor tfie Vn6om" Liz Cenedd{a :J((D '9 7 
on choosing ftje Com <Primavera 7:00pm, Sul/{ft.Z)~ 13 Octo6er 
'J1ic (i'ospd()/Life 1s at t!it ~l{eart vf]t.nu ·rr1essatlr., t£1.->rry'">ne lias ~:11 o6tl51,:t;ion to strv;:·[~ft. <1\·,ps: ..'.!olin Pau( I J '7\MPUS

~1~-JISTR>' 


tions in a 24-6 loss to the Pittsburgh Steelers. and has since been the lowest-rated quarterback in the AFC. 
The 36-year-old quarterback went through practice Wednesday with a heavily taped right leg. He took most of the snaps during the workout, and threw three passes of 60 yards or longer. 
"He looked good. He looked sharp," Bills center Kent Hull said. "I know in the seven-on­seven drill, somebody said he completed 15 out of 16. That's a pretty good sign he's back." 
Buffalo has played better defense and won with Collins in the last two weeks, while Miami has lost twice since quarterback Dan Marino sus­tained a broken ankle. 
Collins completed 56 percent of his passes for 396 yards and one touchdown in victories over Dallas and Indianapolis. His 309 passing yards against the Colts helped send the game into overtime by moving the team 58 yards with no time­outs before Steve Christie kicked a field goal. 
''I'm going to have to keep myself mentally ready and not fall into a mode where I'm going to relax and not get an opportunity to play," Collins said. ''I'm not going to have the advantage to have the preparation during the week." 
Kelly had problems getting the once-potent Bills offense moving in his first three games before he went down with a pulled hamstring during a non­contact passing drill in prac­tice. 
With Collins at quarterback, the Bills used an assortment of different "formations that appeared more effective than Buffalo's traditional one-back, three receiver set to which Kelly is accustomed. 
Buffalo is the lowest-scoring team in the league with a win­ning record, and has scored fewer points than it has allowed. The Bills are rated in the bottom third in 12 of the 17 offensive categories. 
"I don't care what we do, we have to put the ball in the end zone," Kelly said. "We can't go through a stretch of games where we're scoring 10, 13, 16 points. I'm not used to doing that, and I know this team isn't." 
Appearing LIVE at the 
1ML!hllJ)TI~(Q)N (O)lf~JriEill Iffi&ill 
402 EAST MADISON SOUTH BEND, IN (219) 288-3776 
Thurs., October 10, Carl Brown-reggae Fri., October 11, Darryl Buchanan-R&B Sat., October 12, Les Exodus-reggae 
hours: Mon-Sat 3:00p.m.-3:00a.m. 
NATIONAL &REGIONAL ACTS HALF PRICE COVER WITH STUDENT ID 
SERVING EXCELLENT FOOD till 1 a.m. Thurs., Fri., Sat. 
WEDNESDAYS: open mic jam 
THURSDAYS: reggae 
FRIDAYS: blues 
SATURDAYS: 
---classic rock -alternative -retro 
national and regional acts 



Thursday, October 10, 1996 The Observer • SPORTS page 17 
• LEAGUE CHAMPIONSHIP SERIES 
Ho01e tea01s triu01ph, one step closer to World Series 
Patient Braves capitalize on Cards' mistakes 
By BEN WALKER 
Associated Press Writer 
ATLANTA 

.John Smoltz kept the Atlanta Braves dose, then Javy Lopez crarked it open. 
Lopez broke his hat on a tiebrnaking. two-run singln in the ~~ighth inning and the Bravos. hnhind y11t another strong pitching lH~rformance, lwal the St. Louis Cardinals 4-2 Wndnnsday night in Gamn 1 of thn NL championship series. 
"It's very important to win this one beeause now we can come in tomorrow inure confi­dent and relaxed," Lopez said. 
That Srnoltz pitched well in October -he improvnd to 7-1 lifetime in tho postseason was no surprise. Th') defending World Serins champions expect that from thn aee who led the majors in wins and strikeouts 
N.D. #15 October 
lOth 
Your Last Observer Birthday! 
Happy 22°d 
a1oo(9mu~0m o(fu~lli ~00Glli~aa ~~m~g 
This Friday's pep rally at the Joyce Center is scheduled to start at 7 P.M. However, the Joyce Center is expected to reach capacity very early. The early admission plan was a huge success at the OSU rally, with 3,200 students gaining entrance! 
So again this Friday, from 5:30 ­5:45 P.M., only students with a valid student J.D. will be admitted through Gate 11. 
After that, general admission will begin at Gate 10. 

Get there early to cheer on the team! 
GO IRISH! BEAT HUSKIES! 
this season. 

"I would say overall, this is my atmosphere. I'm comfort­able in this," Smoltz said. 
The real shocker was all the empty scats. There were about 3,000 unoccupied ones in the upper deck in center field, per­haps from fans who are wait­ing fnr the Series to start. 
Chipper Jones went 4-for-4, including a misplayed bunt sin­gle in the eighth, as the Braves won their eighth straight home game in the postseason. 
"We made some mistakes," Cardinals manager Tony La Hussa sa4.d. "When you sit back at night and think about how they scored those two runs in the eighth, it's going to grate at you." 
Mark Wohlers pitched the ninth inning and earned the save as he did in each game of the first-round sweep of Los Angeles, during which Atlanta. held the Dodgers to .14 7 hit­ting. 
Game 2 is scheduled for Thursday night, with Greg Maddux facing Todd Stottlemyre of the Cardinals. 
UMIVIItiT' IU N11Tll ll.uu 
''W"'"'r.".'"" .. '"' 
Smoltz limited St. Louis to five hits over eight innings. He struck out six and walked two. 
The Cardinals had caused more trouble for Smoltz than any team throughout his ca­reer. They had gone 9-5 against him, and stopped his 14-game winning streak in June. 
St. Louis starter Andy Benes, who beat Smoltz back in June, allowed two runs and seven hits in six innings. He struck out seven and walked none, and remained winless in five career postseason starts. Reliever Mark Petkovsek took the loss. 
Mark Lemke, who hit a two­run single earlier, drew a lead­off walk from Petkovsek in the eighth. Jones followed with a bunt that bounced high, and Petkovsek slipped trying to field it. 
Petkovsek whipped a throw to second baseman Luis Alicea, covering first base on the play, but Jones knocked the ball out of Alicea's glove and Lemke made it to third. 
"It wasn't your routine bunt back to the pitcher," La Russa said. 
''I'm surprised I got the sig­nal right," Jones said. 
Tony Fossas relieved and re­tired Fred McGriff on a popup. After Jones stole second, pinch-hitter Terry Pendleton was intentionally walked to load the bases. 
T.J. Mathews relieved, and Lopez, who was 3-for-25 in his career with the bases loaded, managed to hit an 0-2 pitch up the middle for a single. When the play was finished, a bat boy went to the left side of the plate to retrieve a splinter of the bat. 
"Sooner or later, I figured I was going to get a hit," Lopez said;, "I was lucky I got it to­day. 

Williams, 12­year-old paves path for Yanks By RONALD BLUM 
Associated Press Writer 
NEW YORK 
Bernie Williams didn't neod help from a 12-year-old fan with his home run. 
He hit it so deep into the left-field stands that even a fishing net couldn't have stopped it. 
Three innings after young Jeff Maier stuck his glove over the right-field wall and creat­ed the controversial game­tying homer, Williams took Randy Myers deep for his fourth homer of the postsea­son, giving the Yankees a 5-4, 11-inning victory over Baltimore on Wednesday in Game 1 of the AL champi­onship series. 
"This is about as close as it comes to one play beating you," Orioles manager Davey Johnson said. 
Maier's move -a day too late for the Gold Glove Awards -gave an eighth-inning homer to New York's Derek Jeter that tied the score 4-4. Baltimore's Tony Tarasco had settled under Jeter's fly ball against the 9-foot wall in right. 
But Maier stuck out his gloved left hand -not even an autographed Mizuno model ­above Tarasco's more expen­sive Rawlings model and pulled the ball away. Umpire Rich Garcia called it a home run, then admitted after look­ing at a replay that he blew the call. 
"I thought it was out of the ballpark," Garcia said. "He reached out; he did not reach down. In my judgment, he did not interfere with the fielder attempting to catch the ball. It probably was a situation where the ball would have hit the wall." 
Garcia said that if he had looked at a replay before the call, he would have ruled the play a double. Tarasco dis­agreed. 
"It was like a magic trick, really. I was about to close my glove," he said. "Merlin must be in the house, abracadabra somewhere." 
Garcia said none of the other umpires saw the play well enough to overrule him. Johnson was ejected during the ensuing argument and 
B RUN 0 'S 

One 16" Pizza for $14.00 


4 toppings per p I 1 z z a 
NORTH: 119 U.S. 31 N. 
273-3890 

S 0 U T H: 2 610 PRAIRIE AVE. 
288-3320 
protested because the Yankees didn't have security in the right-field corner to prevent interference. 
During last week's first round of the playoffs, a fan in the left-field corner reached out to catch a home run down the line by Juan Gonzalez of the Hangers. 
"I was told there would be security there so this would not happen," Johnson said. 
Security was increased ­but to prevent fans from throwing anything at Huberto Alomar. Still the focus of attention after he spitting inci­dent with umpire John Hirschbeck on the last week­end of the regular season, Baltimore's All-Star second baseman was booed long and loud each time he went to the plate. 
Alomar extended his slump to 7-for-36 by going 1-for-6 with three strikeouts. lie made the final out of four innings, but did manage a great defen­sive play when he threw out Cecil Fielder in the sixth while falling from his right knee on the center field grass. 
Maier's defensive play was more critical. 
"I was just trying to catch the ball," the young fan said. "I feel bad for the Baltimore fans. But as a Yankee fan, if I helped the team I feel pretty good. I think I had a right to catch it because I thought it was going to go out." 
Jeter, not exactly a power hitter, had 10 homers during the regular season. 
"That didn't win the game, Bernie won the game," he said. 
What would he say to Maier: 
"Thank you. Reach over all you want," Jeter said. "It's just something that happens. Sometimes you call it right and sometimes you call it wrong." 
Yankees fans will get more chances to show off their field­ing sills Thursday, when David Cone pitches for New York in Game 2 against David Wells. The series then shifts to Camden Yards starting Friday night. . 
Before Maier's magic, Brady Anderson and Rafael Palmeiro showed off some of Baltimore's record power, helping the Orioles take a 4-2 lead with solo homers. · 
Anderson's third homer of the postseason (following 50 during the regular season) tie the score 2-2 in the third. Palmeiro then led off the fourth with his second homer of the postseason. 

-----------------------------------------------------~ 
page 18 The Observer • SPORTS Thursday, October 1 0, 1996 


Ducks triumph without star 
SMC 
continued from page 20 
advantage of the Foresters Jack of focus, Miller, Bill, and Kelly played vital roles in breaking out of the score swaying strug­gle. The Belles confidence built after taking the opening game 15-10. 
From the initial whistle blow of the second game, the Belles dominated. Lake Forest sub­mitted after scoring only four points and allowed the Belles to take total control. Miller earned three consecutive serv­ing points pulling the team to an eleven point margin. Outside attacker, Bill sewed up the middle game by securing the two final points needed to· win 15-4. 
According to opposing coach Beth Pier, "Saint Mary's played well." She went on to compli­ment her opponents force in the second game stating, "They passed and served well and that made all the difference." 
The first point of the third match earned in an acrobatic move by Kelly Meyer seemed to indicate the level at which the rest of the game was to be played. 
The Belles did not execute at the level which the two previ­ous games were played. The lack of substitutes seemed to be catching up with the team as 
X Country 
continued from page 20 
Midway through the season and injury free Reichenbach need only to knock on wood and perform at the level she has been running for the last three weeks. 
they weakened to a 4-7 deficit. 
"The third game was much tougher," observed Shcroeder­Biek. "We were taking it easy. Maybe we were relaxed too much." 
However, the situation quick­ly turned around as Schroeder­Biek subbed Kelly Meyer in to serve. Meyer served five con­secutive points and boosted the team to a 9-7 lead. 
Lake Forest immediately re­sponded and tied the game 9-9 adding pressure to the Belles. After a few short volleys, the visitors repossessed the lead 9­13. 
Courtney Love, freshman set­ter, retorted the tenacity of the Foresters by serving four points. With the help of Connolly and Miller spikes, she brought the score to another plateau of 13-13. 
Fittingly to the way the match had been played, Miller gained control of the ball and won the final marks of the third game. In a team effort, the Belles overcame their foes in the third game 16-14. 
The Saint Mary's volleyball crew will head to Chicago next Tuesday on a positive note. After the confidence builder last night, the team hopes to increase their record to 15-10. 
"We've been playing tough," Schroeder-Biek stated with surmounting optimism. "I feel we've been in an upswing and hopefully, it will continue." 
"Heidi doesn't need to do anything supernatural over the next few weeks , " Connelly said "She needs only to run confidently." 
"This is her last year," Connelly said "It's not a matter of if she's going to run well anymore it's a matter of how much she's going to improve." 
By MIKE NADEL 
Associated Press Writer 
CHICAGO 
Though they wish they didn't have to, the Anaheim Mighty Ducks are adjusting to life with­out Paul Kariya. 
"It's not pretty hockey, but without Paul in the lineup ... that's the way it's got to be," Anaheim coach Ron Wilson said Wednesday night after his team used Mikhail Shtalenkov's first career shutout and Teemu Selanne's shorthanded goal for a 2-0 victory over the Chicago Blackhawks. 
Kariya, who had 50 goals last season, is out indefinitely with a strained abdominal muscle. Without him, Anaheim is 1-1-1. 
Asked when his star might re­turn, Wilson said: "I really can't tell you. It could be tomorrow or it could be a month from now or two months from now. It's a quirky injury." 
The Blackhawks know what it's like to lack firepower. 
Playing without traded Jeremy Roenick, injured Eric Daze and free-agent defectors Joe Murphy and Bernie Nicholls, they were expected to struggle offensively. But Chicago scored nine goals in winning its first two games, and entered its home opener seek­ing its first 3-0 start in 24 years. 
Wednesday, the dire expecta­tions became reality, as Chicago lost to Anaheim for only the third time in 14 meet­ings since the Mighty Ducks entered the league in 1993-94. 

"We had opportunities to score," the Blackhawks' Keith Carney said. "Maybe we have· to get a little hungrier around the net and pounce on some rebounds. But give them credit. Their goalie played well and they played good trapping de­fense as a team." 
In his fourth NHL season, all with Anaheim, and playing in his 59th game, Shtalenkov was making his 1996-97 debut. 
He couldn't remember his last shutout. 
"I think I played a few in the 1992 Olympics," he said, "but they were against France and Norway." 
The Moscow native, who has spent his entire career as Guy Hebert's backup, was especially outstanding in the third period in stopping nine shots. He twice robbed Tony Amonte, including once on a tricky deflection, and also blocked close-in shots from Murray Craven and Bob Probert. 
Alex Hicks clinched the victo­ry with 52.8 seconds left, scor­ing into an empty net just after Shtalenkov kicked out Gary Suter's screened shot from the point. 
Ed Belfour was almost as good as Shtalenkov, making 17 saves for Chicago, but couldn't 
stop Selanne's breakaway at 
6:36 of the second period. 
With Anaheim's Ted Drury in the penalty box, Suter failed to stop Jari Kurri's clearing pass. Selanne, the high-powered, high~priced wing acquired by the Ducks last season, beat ev­eryone to the puck in the Blackhawks' end, faked Belfour to the ice, and slid a backhan­der under the goalie's arm. 
"I tried to keep it in and I did­n't," Suter said. "Selanne was gone. Breakaway. Backhander. Goal. He's too fast. You're not going to catch him." 
Anaheim, looking to avoid an­other disastrous start to a sea­son, has two games left on its opening five-game road trip. The Mighty Ducks lost eight of their first 10 games last season, and even a tremendous finish didn't help them make the play­offs. 
"As a coach, you don't mind opening with two or three games on the road -but five's 
·stretching it," Wilson said. "We've got three points now. If we could get five or six, it would be great without our best player in the lineup." 


You are the star! 
Come show your stuff at 
Open-Mike Talent Night TONIGHT •'
8 ~ 10 PM LaFortune Ballroom Sign up at the door to participate tonight with your act! 
Whoever has the best act receives 2 FREE Rusted Root concert tix! 
•Singing • Dancing 
•Comedy Skits • Music • Poetry 
TLe Ulti...-.te 
y 

tlliam 

President of Marriott's Service G Vice President of Marriott I 
10:00-11 :30 a.m. in Hesburgh Center Auditorium, Room 100 
~eslrudurin~ Marriolln 
Friday, October 11th 
Open to 
Thursday, October I 0, 1996 The Observer • TODAY page 19 
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~~--­
MIXED MEDIA JACK OHMAN YOUR HOROSCOPE JEANE DIXON ..... 

11-\1'1'\' llllrl'lff);\ \! IN Iff!<. who Js ill. i\ llltlt-IL< vould '"'" NE\T YEAR OF YOlll{ LIFE: wondl'r" Tackltllt! too lllilll) 111•1 Your professional rcpulallon will tech at Ullt' tlll\L' \l.dlll'O\\t' ynu 'Pill continue to grow. l'ut yolll 1wrsonal ning your wllt·cl..... 1111pnnl on all of the pr<>J<Th you VII{(;() (i\111-' 2.1 St·pl _,_,I handle. Family lllemhers will nde to Travel may llgllll' 111 Y'"" plan· the re.,cuc if an emergcnc) ansc..... Tl11nk. ahou1 l'nrollln~ 111 a latl_;.'lltl,!'' Business travel is favored early 111 cour\C. You de~crvc hl'ltl'l r .lo!IHrl~. I')')7. Romance should ht• a 1wo­a professiOnal or athkti,· cl11h 11111 \\'ay ~trel't. Are you getllng a~ mucll widen your ""'ial honmns our of a rclaLiOihhip a~ )Oll arl' LIIIRA (Sept. 2l-Ckt 2~1: II putt1ng into it'' Share your plans may he difficult to stil'k to a 'l'lll'd with those closest Ill your he~u1. The ule today. lllghe1-ups l1nd '""' inl-cSiment climate lmprove.s next presence es~e1111al. Postpone task' summer. Think ahout launching a that can Wall 1111111 next week \ bUSIIless. deteriorating romance prove' ho11 CELEBRITIES HORN ON elusiw a lastmg relationship ean he. THIS DAY: actress Helen Hayes. SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 211 country musician Tanya Tucker. Seck the company ol people you ja11 great Thelonious Monk. Singer respect and admire. Readim.! a ~oud David Let' Roth. book ~timulate~ vour ima~l!la..tion ARIES (March 21-April I'll: An inter~..,ttiH! ~li .... ru...,...,ll..)!l t;tkt'' Propc11y values Increase ~igni!icant­place: thi~ aftern~Hlllor L'\"L'ning. ly. Consult a hrokcr ahout a real SAGITTARlliS <Nov. 22-lk< estate deal. Being aggrcs.sivc in 21 ): Your conversational skills and tinancial matters will pay off. Sen­social savvv bring vou the anent1o1t suous pleasures arc a great tempta­you enjoy.· Som~,;nc influential '' tion. impre"ed by your ;pecialill··l TAURUS (April 20-May 201: knowledue Domestic matters require attention. CAPRicoRN t De,·. 22-Jan Gi1·c vour home a facelift. Wash the 19): Exciting l'\'l'lll~ n)Uid give yoll wind,;ws and wax the floors. A love an idea lor a hook. Jot down vnu1 affair will take an intriguing turn thought> before they ~trc lost.lol this coming weekend. ever. Patching up a quarrel 11 itll a GEMINI (May 21-Junc 20): close friend will bring peat:<' nl Financial issues are uppermost in mind. Be conciliatorv. your thoughts. If things arc not mov­AQUA RillS (J~in. 20-l'eh. I H 1 ing liN enough <II work. give them a Welcome any peace and quiet you gentle nudge. Strive to halance gel today. Complex business nwller' home life with career demand.s. require immediate a\lention. Lon~ CANCER (June 21-July 221: A distance phone calls may h,· able I• • newcomer is dazzled by your willy substitute for expensive da! trip'. repartee. When making weekend PISCES (f'eh. IY-\1arch 201 plans. keep in mind your hudget and Longtime friends ui1e the hL''' your family's desJres. A special out­aJvi~e now. Avotd (llah.in~ dra .... th.. ing ..;ounds fun hut requires reserva­changes at 11 ork or holm'.' An out tion..... nf-town 'i~itPt hrinu~ ~lad tiU111~..., LEO (.lull 2.1-Au~. 22J: Take Think about v.hat ,.;HI hnpc ,,,, llo'' cr' or an-other ~if[ to someone acc·omphsh 111 the w,·,·ks ahead.  
•• OF INTEREST The Future of Immigration Polley is the topic of a seminar given by T. Alexander Aleinikoff of the U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service on Thursday at 12~30 p.m. in room C-103 .of the Hesburgh Center for International Studies, A Prayer for the Dying is the title of a talk on (!Utha.nasia giv(m by Dr. David Young '77 ln the Walsh Hall Chapel tonight at 7 p.m. This is a part of the Living Out the Gospel of Life Series. The ND Folk Choir will be featured guests. Refreshments will be provided.  
•MENU Notre Dame North South Roa.<>t Pork Loin Chicken Strips GrHled Redfi.sh Turbot Almondine Cheese Enchiladas Rice Valencienne Spanish Rice with Bean French Green Beans French Silk Pie Saint Mary's Wings and Things Bar London Broil Baked Penne Melanza.ne Sweet and Sour Chicken  
Wanted: Reporters, photographers and editors. Join The Observer staff.  

MOH-lER GOOSE & GRIMM MIKE PETERS 
·­
SCOTT ADAMS 

CROSSWORD 

,
ACROSS 27 Foodstuffs 54=­1 Cartoon deputy 31 Hosiery shade 56 Concert receipts 
32 Cropped up 57 Bottled water 33 Discoverer's cry brand 

s Dot 1n the sea 
10 "Oh! My---" 34 56 Summoned
(Eddte Fisher tune) 36 Bad temper 59 Asteroid discovered in
14 Skating 39 First name in 1898
maneuver cosmetics &ORaison-­
40 "Born Free" lioness 61 Libelous remark 
15 Tide rival 
16 List extending 41 Stomach
abbr. calmer: Var.
17 DOWN 
43 Summer 1996 

20 Highly regarded 
movie thriller 1 Hamlet, for one 21 Bring into 
45 Snowman's 2 W.W. II powersharmony 
comment? 
3 Left 

22 Show one's 4& "The Black 4 Group workingappreciation Stallion" boy 
in harmony?23 Like some type: 47 "West Side 
5 Jewel thief, in Abbr. Story" Oscar 

slang24 Beatles music 
wtnner 6 Blind followers

co. soNotgoout 7 Advance 
8 Electric ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 9 Scholarly paper 10 Mortar's partner 

11 Aleutian island 


12 Used one 

13 Lotion additive -=+=++:-! 18 Prefix with port 19 Pollen holder 
23 Start of many bumper sticker slogans 
24 Press 25 Part of a squirrel stash 
27 Thin as 28 Christmases 

29 Guess Who hit "--Eyes" 30 Oceanogra­pher's aid 32 Up and about 
35 Memorized 3&ln a holding account 
37 Kind of pet 42 Wild goats 43 Comedienne Boosler 44 Alejandro and Fernando 
46 Rose oil 
47 F.H.A. loan 
48 Horse racing's Man 49 Rooter starter 50 Tantrum 
51 Race site 52 Software choices 53 M.I.T. grad: Abbr. 55 "The mother of all living" 
Answers to any three clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420-5656 (75¢ per minute). 
Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: (800) 762-1665. 

=+:-+='+:-+'-l 26 Dressing place 

Attention All.Students: This year Columbus Day falls on Saturday, Oct. 12th. For the first time.in our 154_Iear history, Notre Dame will be ho.noring this;holiday by CANCELLING ALL CLASSES on MOND.AY,-·OCT. 14th. Consider this the administration's way of saying, "We appreciate you." .., yeah right...it will be a cold day in Patty O'Ham's office before. the administration would be so kind... but if tbe Student Union Board was in charge, we would cancel classes every Monday. SUB • where fantasies arc a way of life.  

Senior harrier improves by leaps and bounds 


By MARIO ARCE Sports Writer 
When Irish women's cross country fans on campus and around the country think of it's team members, most are quick to think of the phenom­enal freshman duo of Joanna Deeter and Nicole Lasselle. 
Heidi Reichenbach is not a household name in the run­ning community and it wasn't a big name on the team up until this fall. Reichenbach a senior from Plainfield, Illinois finds herself in a place unfa­miliar to her for the last three 

." years, on the varsity squad. For three years Reichenbach has been on the team running with only aspirations of some­day competing on the varsity squad. "I was so bad for three years," said Reichenbach "My goal was to come in and go to the Big East Championships (top 12) ,it's unbelievable to find myself running as fast as I am." As a Freshman Reichenbach came in as a quality high school runner only to find her­self injured for the entirety of her first year due to a stress fracture. 
Belles focus on team goals 
" 
Preparation, 
fundamentals 
key to success 
By ANGELA OLSEN Saint Mary's Sports Editor 
Be aggressive. First five min­utes -score a goal on them. Motivate ourselves and our teammates. Win the 50/50 balls. 
The goals for the Saint Mary's soccer team are clearly defined. Each player has the list of 11 goals posted outside her dorm room as a constant reminder of what needs to be done on the field in order to defeat the opponent. 
When the Belles (3-8-1) take the field tomorrow at 4 p.m. behind the Angela Athletic Facility against Calvin College they will be focused on the job at hand. 
This week in practice the Belles have been working on the fundamentals and doing a 

-
lot of conditioning in prepara­tion for the tough match they are anticipating against Calvin. 
"We've had really hard prac­tices," said freshman Maria Ferry. "Everyone has had real serious attitudes." 

• Although Saint Mary's head coach Bob Sharp does not have a high number of players he gets the most out of that small number. 
"What I do have are work­ing very hard." he commented. 

"' 


As a sophomore Reichenbach again came in very fit and showing potential to con­tribute to the team but once again fell victim to injuries. 
"Her sophomore year she came in, in very good shape but she got injured and never really recovered" explained head coach Tim Connelly. 
Her junior year once again followed in disappointment, as she ran only one race for the junior varsity finishing in 
21:52 over a five kilometer course. 
As a senior Reichenbach found herself running in her debut varsity race at Ohio state finishing fourth in 18:37 over The five kilometer course. 
"I nearly went crazy," Reichenbach exclaimed. "I came into that race thinking eighth or ninth on the team but to be a scoring runner and finish top five in the race, it was pretty incredible." 
An improvement of nearly three minutes over one season is very impressive. Reichenbach did not stop there though as she went on to finish third on the team in 
17:37 at last Friday's Notre Dame invitational. 
"All it took was one good race," remarked Connelly. "To be honest I never expected her to be running as well as she is now, and it wasn't like it was progressive it was just one big jump." 
That big jump occurred this summer when Reichenbach decided to get serious and train the way she knew she had to. 
"This summer I did all the workouts I could and just stuck to it," said Reichenbach. "I trained by myself this sum­mer, and I kept pushing myself as hard as I could, the only thing that kept me going was that everyone else could be training a little faster and farther." 
After three straight wins for the Irish women in competi­tion, Reichenbach looks to be one of the key performers for the pre-national meet at Arizona St. on October 19th. 
"The key is keeping her healthy," said Connelly "I don't want to get greedy with her, she's obviously very fit and we have to make sure she maintains injury free for the whole season." 
see X COUNTRY I page18 


"Jolie [Pokorny] playing at midfield is very good and Eileen [Newell] and Keary [Sullivan] are giving us good strength and support on defense."­
As far as scoring, Sharp says the Belles' are trying to get some dangerous offensive threat. 
Center halfback Katy Barger says that her midfield is ready 
vs. Washington~"' October 12, 1 :30 p.m. 
at Stanford 

;., 
October 11, 6 p.m. 

-
vs. Western Illinios 

:.w, 
October 11, 7:30 p.m. 

-
vs. Providence 

~ October 11, 7 p.m. 
to be the play makers and get the offense going. 
The opposition that the Belles' will be facing is in a very tough league. 
"The talent is good and they are competitive," said Sharp. "We've been working on our aggression and we look to give them a good challenge. If we put together a good offense, we'll win." 
Soccer vs. Calvin ~ October 10, 4 p.m. 
The Obse/Ver/Sarah O'Conner 

Reinchenbach has battled through injuries to be a pleasant surprise. 
Newcomer leads SMC setters to home sweep 
By SHANNON RYAN Sports Wrirer 
Volleyball at U ofChicago see page 17 
October 15, 7 p.m. 
~ •• 
• Wisconsin challenges OSU 

at Central Collegiate ~ Conference see page 14
~ 

October 18,7:30 p.m. 
~ 

Some determination, a timely opportunity, and a lot of pres­sure. 
Combine these ingredients with Melissa Miller and the outcome is a fresh athlete play­ing like a pro. 
Miller, a first year student, assisted in the 3-0 victory of Saint Mary's volleyball game over Lake Forest last night. Although nervous and inexpe­rienced with, Miller stepped up to the challenge. 
"I felt the pressure, but I had a lot of fun," the 5'9" out­side attacker commented. ''I'm just glad I got the chance to prove myself." 
To the delight of her coach, she successfully guided the team in key kills, digs, spikes, and serves. 
"She's done a great job." 
The Obse/Ver/Kim Michalik 

The volleyball squad improved their record in win over Foresters. 
Q) 
• AL, NL playoffs 
~ 







