~-~---------­

Thursday, September 12, 1996 • Vol. XXX No. 14 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
• fACULTY SENATE 
Theology hiring sparks investigation 
By RUSSELL WILLIAMS Assistant News Editor 
By unanimous vote. the Faculty Senate's Academic Affairs Committee will open an inv11stigation to pursue charges concerning a faculty hiring in the theology department. made despite objections by that depart­ment's own chairman and hiring committee. 
The disputed appointment was made by l'athtlr Edward Malloy, president of the University. The committee will present its findings and recommendations at the November 7 meeting of Faculty Senate. 
The name of the professor has not been reltmsed. 
Faculty Senate Vice-Chairman Jean Porter. an associate professor of theology, introduclld the resolution asking the Faculty Senate to disapprove of Father Malloy's dedsion to hire a professor in the theology department. 
The pwsident's decision came after the department's chairman, Professor Lawrence Cunningham, and other members of his department expressed clear opposition to the appointment. 
Despite the strained atp10sphere, the dis­cussion was followed with a Faculty Senate vote overwhelmingly opposing a final vote at last night's meeting. The postponement resulted from a need to further investigate the charges. The point of further investiga­tion was raised by Professor G. Robert Blakey of the Notre Dame Law School. 
Blakey expressed the need for the Senate to investigate this charge to the fullest, adding, "President Malloy is entitled to be heard on what he did on this issue." 
The resolution introduced by Porter also notes that an earlier investigation conducted by Harold Attridge, dean of the College of Arts and Letters, supported the manner in which the interview of the professor was 
see HIRING I page 4 
GLND/SMC issue rekindled 
By RUSSELL WILLIAMS Assistant N~ws Ediror 
Addressing the issue of last spring's Patricia O'Hara report on gay and les­bian rights, the Senate unanimously disagreed with O'Hara's decision released April 2 in "Open Letter in Response to the Final Report of the Ad Hoc Committee on Gay and Lesbian Student Needs." 
O'Hara's conclusion called for the for­mation of a gay and lesbian student council, but only under the direct supervision of faculty or administration 
see O'HARA/ page 4 
NO's Hatch, Weischaus enter Phi Beta Kappa 
Special to The Observer 
Nathan Hatch, the University of Notre Dame's provost, and Eric Wieschaus, a 1995 Nobel Prize winner and 1969 gradu­
ate of University, will be inducted today into Phi Beta Kappa, the nation's old­est and most 

respected  Hatch  
academic  
honor society.  
Founded  in  1776  at  the  

College of William and Mary, Phi Beta Kappa recognizes and encourages a commitment to excellence in the liberal arts. Among the living mtlmbers of the society are President Clinton, former President Bush, six current Supreme Court jus­tices, James Michener, and Elizabeth Dole. 
Phi Beta Kappa members typ­ically are inducted into the soci­ety as seniors in college for out­standing academic achieve­ment, but each of the 249 chap­ters of the society can also induct an alumnus and an hon­orary member each year. 
Hatch, being inducted as the honorary member, became Notre Dame's second-ranking officer on July 1. A professor of history, he is regularly cited as one of the world's most influen­tial scholars in the study of the history of religion in America. 
Hatch had been vice presi­dent for graduate studies and research at Notre Dame since 1989, having previously served as acting and associate dean of the University's College of Arts and Letters. He joined the Notre Dame faeulty in 1975. 
A summa cum laude gradu­ate of Wheaton College in 1968, Hatch earned his master's and doctoral degrees from 
see HATCH/ page 4 

Wet and wild in waterworld 
The Observer/Rob Finch 

Yesterday afternoon's downpour left a soft landing for Todd Muscato, a Dillon sophomore, in a sloppy game of frisbee on South Quad. 

Area police crack down on off-campus disturbances 
h'ditor's note: This is the sec­ond in a three-part series exam­ining the changing alcohol poli­cies affecting Notre Dame and .'·lain/ Mary's students. Today, uw look at how law enforcement agencies virw student alcohol consumption. 
Hy BRAD PRENDERGAST News Editor 
SOUTH BEND 

The problems created by a gatlwring of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students at an off­campus party are hardly new to local law enforcement agencies. 
But that doesn't mean they like those problems. 
As indicated by the several off­campus parties that were shut down by authorities last week­end, South Bend police began the school year by making their presence known. 
The appearance of the police at an ofT-campus party depends on one of two factors, said Sgt . John Williams, assistant public information ollicer for the South Bend Police Department. 
Police respond to a party if they notice excessive behavior while on routine patrols or if any neighbor complains about the noise, Williams said. 
If complaints prompt police to come to a particular scene, the officers will usually issue a warning and tell the organizers to tone the party down. 
But if further complaints require a second response, the authorities are a little more stern, Williams said. "They'll usually shut it down." 
Williams himself is in an inter-


Drying Out? 
art 2 of 3 
esting position, because he lives in the Turtle Creek apartment complex. That means he can be found at several parties each weekend if they, as he said, "get a little out of hand." 
·"All the kids know me (at Turtle Creek)," he said. "Usually, I'll go around (to the parties). If the music is too loud, I'll tell them to turn it down. Then I'll come back in 45 min­utes or an hour to see if the noise is back up high." 
Williams' surveillance is aug­mented by an increased patrol by South Bend police on Friday and Saturday nights. The department also puts between four and eight additional officers on city -wide driving-under-the­influence patrol duty on the weekends. 
"I used to have the guys on my shift and the guys on the mid­night shift keep an eye (on Turtle Creek), especially on home football weekends," said Williams, who has lived in Turtle Creek for the last three years. 
Notre Dame Security officers also pass by the various off­campus apartment complexes on the weekends whenever they are transferring a student to or from a local medical center. 

Stop Underage Drinking and Sales (SUDS), an agency of the South Bend police, has also kept tabs on college students at off­campus parties, but rumors per­sist that SUDS patrols have ceased because of reorganiza­tion within the police depart­ment. 
Williams could not shed any light on that rumor. 
Campus Security provides assistance upon request to the local police at an incident off­campus, and Notre Dame offi­cers also occasionally, as a safe­ty precaution, stop to pick up students walking back to cam­pus late at night. 
Security's involvement in off­campus situations "is generally in response to requests for assis­tance from local law enforce­ment," said Rex Rakow, director of Notre Dame Security. "But 
see POLICE/ page 4 page2 The Observer • INSIDE Thursday, September 12, 1996 


• INSUJE COLUMN • WORLD AT A GLANCE 

Another victim ofthe 
•


cotn toss 

Oh, it's that time again.~~~~~~~ Yes, time to indulge that infantile whining that our alumni readership so enjoys. 
Does anyone remember that SNL spot for Bad Idea Jeans? 
"Now ,that I have kids, I feel a let safer having a gun in the house." 
...BAD IDEA... 

I think a similar sce­nario may have played -------­itself out a couple of years ago in the Administration Building. 
"I know! Let's move 550 students from one end of campus to the other, even though they're perfectly happy where they are." 
... BAD IDEA... 

"Wait! Even better! Let's move them over to the middle of nowhere, and not plan ahead for increased dining hall traffic or parking needs." 
...BAD IDEA... 

"Let's take one dorm and break it up into two new ones. They're bound to be much more suc­cessful socially." 
...BAD IDEA... 

"Wait! Let's take the old dorm they live in now and turn it into offices. Building two new dorms has got to be way more efficient than building one new office building!" 
...BAD IDEA... 

"It's settled then. Let's flip a coin to see which perfectly good dorm we rend asunder .... Looks like Grace." 
"Wait. Didn't the donor for that dorm just die?" "Ooh, right. Well, we'll keep the name, and just toss the residents." 
"All approve?" "Yea!" 

"Now to do something about those side­walks .... " "Maybe if we watered them more ..." In case you haven't guessed yet, I am a mem­
ber of what I like to call the Grace Diaspora, the current residents of Keough and O'Neill Halls. I was forced to relocate this year to uncharted territory, between the golf course and a couple of construction sites, an ideal location if you're a golfer or just like a lot of noise. 
And of course, the new women's dorms won't open until AFTER I graduate. West Quad (or Coke Quad or Golf Quad) is quite a lonely place. Maybe it was just bad timing on my part. 
I guess I shouldn't complain too much, though. I could have done a lot worse than Keough. Its cinder-block walls and self-closing doors give it such a homey feel. I have my own room, and, yes, it is air-conditioned, but, con­trary to popular belief, we do not have cable in our rooms. It's pretty much like living in DeBartolo (except the rooms in DeBartolo do have cable). 
Besides, I can always get a cheap thrill fanta­sizing that I may have broken parietals in what will be the new headquarters for Student Affairs. And you'd be surprised what a rush one can get by smuggling Pepsi products into a building named after the wife of the former CEO of Coca-Cola. 
I could have been moved to an old, hot, cramped, infested, maybe even haunted dorm. But I got lucky; I have plenty of space, cool air, and no vermin in sight. (I understand if you want to smack me right now.) 
Yes, I could have a lot worse; they could have moved me to Zahm. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 


•  TODAY'S STAFF  
News  Viewpoint  
Derek Betcher  Brandon Williams  
Saskia Sidenfaden  Lab Tech  
Sports  Dave Murphy  
Joe Cavato  
Todd Fitzpatrick  Production  
Accent  Maureen Hurley Rosanna Ventrone  
Dan Cichalski  
Graphics  
Melissa Weber  

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday rhrough Friday e:xc~pr during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of rhe Associared Press. All reproduction righrs are reserved. 
Hortense strengthens after pounding Puerto Rico 
SAN JUAN, Puertho Ricod Hurricane Hortense re~~lf the dead in Puerto Rico were
Hurricane Hortense strengt ene Conditions as of Wednesday, 2 p.m. EDT today &ver open waters as it moved r~~~~~===riitm~lil···-·· children, including an 8-year-old girl 
away from Puerto Rico and the i 1 Projected path 
Dominican Republic, where it dumped up to 20 inches of rain and left at least 12 'people dead. 
The lightly populated Turks and Caicos Islands were struck today by Hortense, which is heading northwest at 11 mph packing 105 mph winds and heavy rains. Power poles were reported down and roofs damaged. The central Bahamas were expected to be hit by up to 10 inches of rain later today. 
Those rains pounded Puerto Rico with near-record amounts on Tuesday, flood­ing streets and highways and sending rivers surging over their banks. A flood warning remainea in effect today as squalls left over from the hurricane lashed the western half of the island. 
Hortense cut water and electricity to 
most of Puerto Rico's 3.6 million people, destroyed more than 650 homes and stranded hundreds of cars with ztor-
Yeltsin wins woman's heart 
VLADIKAVKAZ, Russia 

win Zinaida Boliyeva's vote, he may have won her heart -literally. The 46-year-old woman has offered her heart to the ailing Yeltsin if he needs a transplant, the ITAR-Tass news agency reported Wednesday. Yeltsin is scheduled to undergo heart surgery at the end of September. Details have 
not been given, but it is expected he will have a bypass operation. But if he needs a new heart, Ms. Boliyeva says he can have hers. It is not "self-sacrifice, but a common-sense civic act," ITAR-Tass quoted her as say­ing. Ms. Boliyeva, from Beslan in the Caucasus republic of North Ossetia, made the offer to the local office of the pro-government political party Our Home Is Russia and asked that it be conveyed to the head of the country's top cardiological clinic. "The Russian president must have a healthy heart and a high working ability. He has to con­tinue the course of democratic reforms and economic transformations which he has launched," she said, according to the report. 
Penniless thief sacks Tut's tomb 
CAIRO, Egypt 
A penniless man spent the night in the Egyptian Museum, pried open a case of King Tut's priceless trea­sures and stuffed the gold jewelry in his pockets and socks. He told guards who caught him red-handed Wednesday that he was just fixing the plumbing. But police said he later confessed, claiming he was inspired by the 1966 film "How to Steal a Million." "The theft has all the signs of him being an amateur," Mohammed Salah, the museum director, told The Associated Press. "He even left his fingerprints behind." Police said Amr Mohammed, an unemployed 25-year-old, entered the museum Tuesday and hid under a display case until closing. He then sneaked into one of two rooms that house the 3,300-year-old treasures of Tutankhamen, police said. He unscrewed a glass showcase and stole a gold dagger, two gold bracelets, a gold necklace and 18 rings made of glazed earthenware, Salah said. He also took two stone statuettes of cats, which were not part of Tut's collection, Salah said. The two-story museum, which has 160,000 pharaonic artifacts, many of them priceless. has no alarms on the display cases themselves and no guards patrolling the halls at night, Salah said. 

5 Day South Bend Forcast AccuWeather® forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 
The AccuWeather®forecast for noon, Thursday, Sept. 12. 
Lines separate high temperature zones for the day. 
............._ ..,..-....,... 

COLD WARM STATIONARY C 1996 AccuWeather, Inc. Pressure 
H L 63 &'SJ [TI) 0 IZ] G (:} D u 
HIGH t.OW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY 
Via Associated Press 

Anchorage 54 43 Geneseo 71 46 New Orleans 90 70 Chicago 66 51 Honolulu 88 75 New York 54 39 Columbus 67 52 Lexington 68 51 Omaha 73 49 Fargo 70 44 Los Angeles 81 60 Pittsburgh 70 63 
Via Associated Press GraphicsNer 

Fort Wayne 62 49 Bayonne 76 65 Seattle 63 55 

{) ~ Q 
Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy 
... Hurricane watch · ': f1u.rricane warning 
·· 
, \ 
! ·~ !JAMAICA >, HAITI 
Caribbean DOMINICAN I • Sea REP. PUERTO 
Le~:~~tHI,;;~ * w: 

A w h
5ource: ccu-eat er 1nc. 
•  •  swept from her father's arms as her 13­ 
21.7N, 70.7W Max. winds: 105 mphGusts at 120 mphMoving NW 11 mph  year-old sister drowned . Residents watched the girls' father; ; trying to save the younger child, only to  
! have the surging water drag her from  

35•! his hands. The sisters' bodies were ; found under a bridge. Four other family 
30"1 
J5:ff:::1:/ands 25.: 
Atlantic Ocean ' 
SanJuan ~""" 20•; 
l{jO' 
AP/Carl Fox 

the British island chain, knocking state television and radio off the air. 
M;.~.n returns from death three times 
ASHLAND CITY, Tenn. 

Joseph Sterner III got lost 10 years ago and was declared legally dead. Then he was found again, living with the identity of a boy who died at the age of 3. Sterner, who age has been listed as 72 or 73, appeared in court today and was given until Oct. 9 to prepare his defense against a charge of criminal impersonation. His son and daughter-in-law found him last week living in Henrietta, near Nashville, after discovering that Sterner had tried to obtain medical benefits for himself under his old name and using his old address in Pennsylvania. "He's been through some extreme hell," his son, Joseph 
W. Sterner said. "He said he's been pronounced dead three times, so he said he got six more lives." The son, 40, of Leonia, N.J., said his father was twice declared dead as a prisoner of war in the Pacific during World War 
II. As a POW, the elder Sterner survived the brutal Bataan Death March in which thousands died. After the war, Sterner returned home, married and raised five children. But the stress of the war took its toll and Sterner left in 1979 to live alone in Pennsylvania, his son said. Then one day in July 1986, he disappeared. His truck was found parked in Pittsburgh and he was believed murdered. 
Evidence suggests Poe died of rabies 
NEW YORK 

Edgar Allan Poe didn't die drunk in a Baltimore gut­ter, according to the first scientific study of the writer's final days. The tell-tale facts suggest rabies instead. Dr. 
R. Michael Benitez, who practices medicine a mere block from the writer's grave, says it's true that Poe was seen in a bar on Lombard Street on an election day dreary in October 1849, delirious and possibly wearing somebody else's soiled clothes. But Poe wasn't drunk. "I think Poe is much maligned in that respect," said Benitez, an assistant professor at the University of Maryland Medical Center. He describes Poe's last days in a medical horror story as dramatic as the writer's most gruesome tales. Poe entered the hospital comatose, but by the next day was perspiring heavily, hallucinating and shouting at imaginary companions. The day after that, he seemed better but couldn't remember falling ill. On his fourth day at Washington College Hospital, Poe again grew confused and belliger­ent, then quieted down and died. That's a classic case of rabies, said Benitez, whose diagnosis appears in the September issue of the Maryland Medical Journal. And there are other clues, too. 
members were missing, as well as two fishermen off northeast Dominican Republic. 
Two boys, aged 2 and 3, were killed in mudslides as the hurricane brought tor­rential daylong rains to Puerto Rico. Three adults drowned, and a woman was found dead -presumably of a heart attack-in her car. 
Power remained off across much of Puerto Rico today, and the Turks and Caicos were without ele.ctricity as well. Hortense's winds and rains blacked out 
Thursday, September 12, 1996 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
·~~~~------------------------------------------~~-­
T -storDI causes caDIpus blackout 
By HEATHER COCKS 
Associate News Editor 
Yestnrday's thunderstorms caused a power outage, plung­ing nearly one-third of the campus buildings into darkness and halting classes in mid-ses­sion, mueh to the delight of Notre Damn students. 
Student Kristin Alworth wasn't so lucky. The Notre Damn junior found herself stranded in the elevator of LaFortune Student Center when the hlaekout occurred. 
Alworth said she was en routn to Seholastie Magazine's third lloor ollice when "all of a sudden, thn lights just went out." 
llnr voiee echoing down the elevator shaft. Alworth added, "I get seared in nlevators, so this i.sn't the rno.~t pleasant nxJwrtmlee for me. 
A power plant employee was unable to pinpoint the exact cause of the power failure, but attributed it to lightning that struck either a power line or substation. 
"We make half of our power at the plant, and we buy the other half from the local elec­tric company," he said. "If they lose power, then Notre Dame buildings are affected." 
Among the areas affected were Lewis, Zahm, and Sorin llalls, as well as Fitzpatrick, Nieuwland, and DeBartolo. 
The employee explained that the power plant is immediately made aware of the blackouts, but cannot nip any switches until American Electric Power, the local governing company, contacts them and informs them that it is safe to do so. 
"When the power comes back in, we start redistributing it to the buildings. We might turn a few on, and wait a few minutes to make sure things are run­ning smoothly. Then we turn on the rest," he said. 

The duration of the outage was estimated at 15-20 min­utes; fortunately for Alworth, her ordeal in the elevator only lasted 10. 
"I guess it was a nice distrac­tion," Alworth conceded upon exiting the elevator. 
The power plant employee urged students and faculty to wait before calling the plant in a panic. "We are doing all we can, and the numerous phone calls tend to slow us down," he said. 
He added that, although it is human nature to worry, there is no need. "We have audible alarms that sound when the power goes off anywhere on campus. We hope people can relax and let us do our best to get things up and running again." 
• CAMPUS BRIEF 
The Ollice of Financial Aid will be conduct­ing an informational meeting regarding per­sonal student finances tonight at 7 p.m. in 141 DeBartolo Hall. Student budgeting. money management, credit card usage. and estab­lishing bank accounts for these and other 
financial activities will be addressed at the meeting. 
In addition, general information about the financial aid process and its application proce­dures will be provided. All students are invited to attend. 
Sitting pretty 


The Observer/Katie Kroener Badin Hall residents stole some time in the sun before the week's weather turned sour. 


TODAY, SEPTEMBER 12 AT 6:00PM IN FRONT OF DILLON HALL 
Featuring: Lou Holtz, Marc Edwards, Melvin Dansby, Sgt. McCarthy, Stamper Bob and Dillon~ Finest 
• SECURITY BEAT 
If you see news happening, call The Observer
. 
"' 
at631-5323 
of\1\-IOPEDIC Sp :-.ds ~ '!:ct.

~"?-<(' ) .... ' '9(~.>­
Quick Service-Reasonable 
• 
Fix any leather goods 

• 
Replace zipper -shines 



• Orthopedic & Pedorthic Specialist 
~ 
•Notre 
I00% Guarantee
Dame 8-6 Monday-

h-
Friday
Mario's 
9-3 -Saturday >­
1025 East 0 
0 
Madison
w 

-~-----~------­
Thursday, September 12, 1996

page4 The Observer· CAMPUS NEWS 
Hatch 
continued from page 1 
Washington University in St. Louis. 
Wieschaus, the Squibb Professor of Molecular Biology at Princeton University, and two other scientists won the Nobel Proze in medicine for their studies of how genes control early embryo development, research that should help explain some birth defects and miscarriages. Wieschaus is the first graduate of the University to receive a Nobel. 
After earning a bachelor's degree in biology from Notre Dame, Wieschaus completed his docto-ralr studies at Yale Universit-y in 197 4. He joined the Princeton University faculty in 1981. 
O'Hara 
continued from page 1 
members approved by the Office of Student Affairs. The proposal by O'Hara and the Administration directly con­flicts with the desires previous­ly expressed by the Faculty Senate, Student Government, and Gays and Lesbians at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. 
Last night's resolution to oppose O'Hara's report was first introduced at the May meeting of Faculty Senate, but received final approval at last night's meeting. 
The language in the Faculty Senate resolution is direct and critical, accusing O'Hara of continuing to "stigmatize gay and lesbian students by deny­ing them rights and privileges accorded other Notre Dame student groups." The resolu­tion also states: "Be it there­fore resolved that the Faculty Senate deplores Professor O'Hara's response to Recommendation Five." 
The Faculty Senate also demanded that the University and Board of Trustees change all non-discriminatory state­ments in University publica­tions to prohibit discrimination based on sexual orientation. 
Erasmus Books 
I027 E. Wayne Tues-Sun, noon-6 1 block south of Jefferson & Eddy Used &out of print books 
bought, sold, searched 232-8444 

Madrid $319 Bangkok $478 Hong Kong $434 Guatemala $249 Costa Rica $249 
FARES ARE EACH WAY fROM INCMANAPOUS lASED ON A IIOUNDTRIP PURCHASE. fAIIES DO NOT INCLUDE fEOYAl TAXES 0« PFCs TOTAUNG IElW£EN $3·$45, DEPENDING ON DmJNATIOH 0« OEf'ARJUII!E CHAAGES PAm DIRKTLY TO FOIWGH GOYEANMfNTS. 
Travel~ 
National Reservation Center 1-800-2-COUNCIL 
(1-800-226-8624) 
http://www.~ 
EUROPASS FROM $210 


Police 
continued from page 1 

our main responsibility is on campus." 
Rakow and Chuck Hurley, assistant director of Notre Dame Security, also said Security increases its on-duty staff for weekends, especially for dates on which the football team plays at home. 
Williams said the relationship between the police and college students has gen­erally been amicable. 
"Ninety-five percent of the kids will cooperate with the police department," Williams said. "They know they have to. 
"If we have to, we'll take a student to jail," Williams continued, "but that's only a last resort. There's always some­one who is going to moan and complain when a party's broken up. But that's for any party, period." 
Williams said that in his three years at Turtle Creek, he has arrested only one student. 
"I could've arrested 1,000 students, but I'm not out to ruin a kid's education. It's not like I'm condoning underage drinking, but it's hard to stop by myself," he said. "If I arrested everyone that I should have, I'd be typing until the day I die." . 
When officers appear at a party, the law allows them to check the IDs of everyone present. But at a party of more than 100 students, that can be more than impractical for the two or three officers that respond to a call. 
"If they choose to do so, they can check every ID," Williams said. "But most of the time, the manpower does not permit it." 
According to Williams, the perception that South Bend police officers have of Notre Dame students has changed over the years. "A while ago, some officers hated ND students," he said. "Some just have a different philosophy than I have." 
Rather than arresting students, Williams prefers to confiscate an offend­ing student's school ID card and warn him not to appear in an intoxicated state at Turtle Creek again. 
"It's better for the kid than arresting him," Williams said. "I know he needs the ID to eat with. And most of the time, you're not going to get a repeat offend­er. Most of them will not take the chance." 
Williams usually holds the ID until Monday following the weekend's activi­ties, and then he returns them to Notre Dame Security so that the ID can be returned to the student. 
Indiana law states that underage drinking, public intoxication, and the use of a false ID are Class C misde­meanors. The penalty for a Class C mis­demeanor in Indiana is imprisonment of up to 60 days and a fme of up to $500. 
If cited by polic~ for breaking these laws. a student must appear in court, where the penalty will be set by the judge. 
"Most of the judges -they're not going to ruin one of these kids' educa­tions," Williams said. "They'll usually set the penalty as a certain number of com­munity service hours." 
A citation for a violation of the city's noise ordinance carries a $50 fme. 
Hiring 
continued from page 1 
conducted. The investigation found that charges claiming the interview of this candidate to be "unfairly conducted" were ultimately unfounded. 
Porter further commented, "Dean Attridge's opin­ion on the hiring of this candidate is not a matter of public record." 
Most members of the the Faculty Senate con­curred with Blakey, however, calling for a thorough review of the facts of the situation. Professor Mario Borelli said, "We need to make sure that all bases are covered. I am not questioning the facts, but I think they need to be investigated." 
Professor Michael Detlefsen agreed, "A careful and disspassionate investigation is needed." 
Among other topics discussed at last night's meet­ing, Faculty Senate Chairman Father Richard McBrien requested the support of the Faculty Senate for re-election to the office of Chair for a third one-year term. McBrien is the Crowley­O'Brien-Walter Chair in the department of theology. 
The Faculty Senate's Committees on Administration, Student Affairs, Benefits, and the Committee on Academic Affairs introduced other relevant issues which will be addressed in the com­ing months. 
Among the issues is a call by the Administration Committee demanding higher salaries for university secretaries. In addition, the Academic Committee will study the departure of several senior faculty members for employment at other universities, and a health insurance program for graduate students and their families. 
The next Faculty Senate meeting will be held Oct. 14 at 7 p.m. in the auditorium of the Center for Continuing Education. Malloy will give his annual address to Faculty Senate, and field questions from Faculty Senators. 
"Of Flies and Men" Genes and Embryonic Development of the Fruit Fly From a Notre Dame Student to the Nobel Prize: A Long journey 
presented by 

Introduction by Eric Wieschaus, Ph.D., '69 Theodore M. Hesburgh,CSC 
1995 Nobel Prize Winner 


Squibb Professor of Molecular Biology at Princeton University 
Dr. Wieschause, the Squibb professor of molecular biology at Princeton University shared the 1995 Nobel prize in medicine for his research which uncovered the clues to how genes control development in embryos. This research helps explain congenital malformations in humans. Dr. Wieschaus will offer a popular account to his scientific trek from his days as an undergraduate at Notre Dame to the Nobel prize. His talk will be directed to physicians, scientists and lay people who have an interest in the genetic control of the body and in the process of winning the Nobel prize. 

10:00 am -11:30 a.m. September 14, 1996 
(Before the Purdue-ND game.) DeBartolo Hall, West of the Stadium 
Attention Students: 
Are you interested in returning to your high school during Fall or Christmas Break to represent Notre Dame? .loin the Undergraduate Schools Committee 

• Meeting Tonight • 

If you missed last night's meeting, you mustcome tonight, Thursday September 12 to Hayes-Healy Auditorium (room 122) at 8:30. 
Questions? Contact:  Bryan Furze  Or  Jennifer Carrier  
Student Coordinator  Office of Admissions  
4-2160  1-7505  


Thursday, September 12, 1996 The Observer • NATIONAL NEWS page 5 
• BUSINESS ANAlYSIS 
Economy suffers 'dumbing down' 

Tobacco industry under fire 
Associated Press 
TRENTON, N.J. 

New Jersey became the 15th state to sue the tobacco industry for illnesses that cost the state more than a billion dollars in health care. 
The suit filed Tuesday charges the tobacco industry violated
Check the summer Weekly Bulletin in 
consumer protection laws with deceptive and misleading advertisements. The state estimates it spends $1.1 billion
Career and Placement Services, lower 
annually to treat tobacco-related illnesses. Eight class-action suits are pending in Alabama, California,
level, Hesburgh Library for listings of com.­
Louisiana, Minnesota, New Mexico, New York, Ohio and Pennsylvania, filed by smokers who claim they became hooked
panies interviewing on campus for summer 
while the industry conce.aled the addictive nature of its prod­
uct. Fourteen other lawsuits have been filed by states seeking to recover money spent treating illnesses. 
The suit seeks unspecified damages and an order directing cigarette manufacturers to turn over its New Jersey profits to the state and to fund anti-smoking programs. 
job opportunities. 

1m 
11THE HEART AHO ~OUl Of GO~PEl MU~I{.. AWorkshop of Pr~yu ~nd Pnisrl 
~aturday, ~eptember 11, lqqb
0MPUS 

q:oo a.m. -5:00 p.m.
MINISTRY 

Crowley Hall-Room 115 
6urst Dinctor, Husici~n ~nd (omposrr Krvin P. Johnson Univmity of Missouri-Kanm (ity 
.,....
~ 

····················-·· 
Tilt li~ng, bmtfliiJI, ~ulfUI history oftflt Mian America a6ospd tnditlon will bt rmuttd ~nd rtlind durint this workshop. All UHD ~nd ~HC studtnt1 ur invitd to putidpnt ~pms nt limittd. Puticip~nts in tht workshop will perform ntht Mriun American ~tudtnt ludmhip Commluionint ~nd Freshmen Htlcomr that tnnint at J:lO p.m. ~ign up in Campm Miniitry -103 Heiburgh Library for further information, contact Chandra Johmon (l-78oo) 
Scientists: Expect 'explosion' of planets 
By MALCOLM RITTER 
Associated Press Writer 
NEW YORK 

After a year in whieh scien­tists discovered several appar­ent planets outside the solar system, a new analysis con­cludes that folks, you ain't seen nothin' yet. 
Hidden planets may be lurk­ing around half the Milky Way galaxy's 100 billion stars, the analysis suggests. 
"We'll see an explosion" in planet discoveries, said researcher Steven Beckwith of the Max Planck Institute for Astronomy in Heidelberg, Germany. 
He presented the evidence for his optimism in Thursday's issue of the journal Nature with Annelia Sargent of the California Institute of Technology in Pasadena. 
Scientists want to find distant planet systems not only for the tantalizing possibility of finding life, but also to test theories of how the solar system formed. 
There's no direct way to tell now how many ordinary stars like the sun have planets. 
For years, astronomers have believed planets were rare. But the rush of reports in the past year has encouraged the belief that they are quite common, and Beckwith's 50 percent esti­mate fits in with that thinking, said Steve Maran, assistant director of space sciences at the Godddard Space Flight Center in Greenbelt, Md. 
Not everyone is guessiug that high. David Black, director of the Lunar and Planetary Institute in Houston, said he wouldn't be surprised if the answer turned out to be 10 per­cent. 
Since last fall, at least eight stars have been found to have a telltale wobble that suggests they're being pulled around by orbiting planets. Some researchers maintain, however, that at least some of these orbit­ing bodies may be failed stars called brown dwarfs instead. 
Beckwith and Sargent noted that in several regions of the cosmos, half or more of very young stars show signs that they're surrounded by disks of gas and dust that look like the forerunner of the solar system. 
By JOHN CUNNIFF 
Associated Press Wriror 
NEW YORK 

Like a new punk rock group, the economy in the past couple of years has received more applause than perhaps its musie merits. It's reviews have been been far more scintillat­ing than its performance. 
What else can you say about an eeonomy that is said to be nearing its maximum at an annual 2.5 percent growth rate when growth through much of the postwar years has exceeded 3 percent -often by a considerable amount? 
And whose total growth since the trough of the 1990­1991 recession has been only a fraction of that experienced in the three other postwar recoveries that lasted at least as long? 
Well, you can claim, as the Clinton administration has, that it's the best economy in a generation. Or you can describe it, as newscasters have, as a boom. Or you can worry, as the Fed does, about it running out of control. 
But such perceptions do not change the reality of an econo­my performing far less robust­ly than in the years of Presidents Kennedy, Johnson and Reagan. Compared with those years, the current econ­omy tends to pale. 
The growth rate, as can be observed, quickened this year. The second-quarter rate rose to 4.8 percent, the strongest in two years, but that hardly makes up for its dull overall performance in the 1990s. 
It has, however, generated daily speculation that the Federal Reserve might raise ,interest rates to constrain eco­nomic activity. And that in turn has created a very loud noise about an economy about to boom. 

What we are witnessing, say economists Aldona and Gary Robbins, is the "dumbing down" of growth. While the economy might be heating up a bit in recent months, they say, its long-term performance has been decidedly cool. 
The Robbinses, former Treasury economists, note that in the 22nd quarter of the 1960s recovery the gross domestic product was up 36.1 percent, but that in the cur­rent economy, 22 quarters old, it is only 13.8 percent higher. 
That would place the cur­rent advance, which began in 1990's third quarter, last in the GOP competition, behind not only the recovery of 1961­1969, but 1975-1980 (20.3 percent), and 1983-1990 (24.6 percent). 
Drug-induced abortions approved for experiment 
Ass®lated Press 
NEW YORK 

The Planned Parenthood Federation of America will offer drug-induced abortions in an experimental program beginning this month. · 
The Food and Drug Administration has approved the pro­gram as part of a study on the abortion procedure. It will be limited to 3,000 women. 
Seventeen of Planned Parenthood's 150 affiliates-including New York City, San Diego, Houston, Phoenix and the states of Minnesota and Wisconsin -will begin the program this fall. 
As many as 45 affiliates may be signed on by early next year, officials said. 
The method employs two drugs that have long been approved by the FDA for other uses. Planned Parenthood wants the FDA to approve the medications for abortion, as well. 
''If, as we hope, the study shows that these medications are safe and effective for early abortion, we will make a special request of the FDA," said Gloria Feldt, president of the Planned Parenthood Federation of America. 
That request, she continued, will be "for an FDA recommen· dation that the labeling for these medications be revised to include use for early medical abortion." 

page 6 The Observer • INTERNATIONAL NEWS Thursday, September 12, 1996 

• JAPAN 
d~e Cushwa Center
Tokyo quake causes slight damage 
By SETH SUTEL the strongest earthquake I had Wednesday's quake was cen­Associated Press W titer experienced in years," said tered 25 miles off the Pacific 
,;::w 
presents

Kazuoshi Takayama, a police­Coast east of Tokyo, and 19 TOKYO man in Choshi, the port city miles under the ocean floor, the 
A strong earthquake centered closest to the quake's center. Central Meteorological Agency far below the Pacific Ocean floor Some airports and train lines said. rattled Tokyo on Wednesday, in Tokyo and Chiba state, where Japan's location atop four tec­sending large buildings swaying Choshi is located, were closed tonic plates, slabs of land that but causing little serious dam­briefly. Police dispatched a heli­move over the earth's surface, age. copter to survey possible dam­makes it prone to earthquakes. 
The Hibernian Lecture 
The quake. with a preliminary age along the shoreline in Chiba. Last January, a 7.2-magnitude magnitude of 6.6, struck shortly An underground industrial quake devastated the western 
1798-1998: Remembering and Commemorating
before noon. People in Tokyo water pipe ruptured in Tokyo's city of Kobe. More than 6,000 and cities to the east felt intense eastern ward of Sumida, send­people died, and long delays in shaking for about one minute. ing water gushing onto a street, relief efforts were blamed on 
the Great Irish Rebellion 
"I was so shocked. This was authorities said. bureaucratic bungling. 
Jim Smyth, associate professor of history University of Notre Dame 
Friday, September 13, 1996 4:15P.M. Auditorium, He~burgh Center for International Studie~ 
·Hamburgers ·Potato Salad ·Chicken ·Cole Slaw 
TRINITY I SH ORNCE COMPRNY 
·Beer Brats ·Potato Chips 
• Free Soft Drinks 

Beach Volleyball Contest-Teams of 6 
11:00 a.m. -6:00p.m. $10 Entry Fee includes: Co-ed teams Free Entry to Concert Double Elimination Prizes from Outpost and Chili's 
Concert 

From 7:00p.m. -12 Midnight enjoy: ·Live Remote by WAOR ·Dancing 
Saturda~. September 21 8P.M. o·~aughlin Auditorium 
·Live Band 

Tickets: $5 (Students). $16 (Adults) on sole at the 



•IRAQ 
over Iraql'iig-J!r;~,A~ 
By BRIAN MURPHY would shoot down· u.s. and 
Associated Press Writer allied warplanes. · 
The Pentagon said qJ;le 
SULAYMANIYAH missihr.was fi~(;}dtodq:y.. at 
Saddam Hussein made two F~16s, I.ii".. r~.sponse,y.. good today on threats to Pentagon official!) said twq;;;•shoot at American war~ B·52s bombers based hf planes, firing on F·16 jets Guam wouldbe relocatedon,"' trying to enforce a "no-fly" the island ofDiego GarchdQ." zone in northern Iraq. The .. "~he Indi~ Ocean.;J!!iY'' · A•?d'•·• jets were not hit, but the · 'Other possible militliif United States responded by responses are under consid; sending B-52s to the region. J eration, including t:he Vlate· 
It was the first confirmed ment of .a. second. aircraft 
Iraqi fire at U.S. airerart carrier .an4 F-117bombers 
after days of claims from in· the region, mllit~ry 
Baghdad that it was shooting sources said in Washington. , 
on warplanes. In less than •·we reserve the right to 
two weeks, Saddam and take action to. protect our/ 
Kurdish allies have seized pilots who are enforcing the 
control and overrun'the no,fly zones both over north~ 
Kurds' northern "safe ern Iraq and s()nthern Iraq," 
haven" despite· U.S. attempts said White ffouse spokesman 
to restrain the Iraqi leader. Mike McCurry; ~·rt doesn't 
When U.S. cruise missiles matter whether he (Saddam) 
were launched at Iraqi mili· observes tllent ot, We · 
tary targets ·nl south"'rn Iraq enf e th"'m •• ·· i."Ji'''
"' . ore · ., .. ; ·• ....··. . .. ........... 

last week, a defiant Saddam In today's incident over 
said he would no longer northern lr!J.q, the American 
respect the no-fly zones cov· jets visually obsll.r:vfil!i a 
ering half his country and sUe launch. '!ll';:!"' ' 


Whites enact boycott action 
ByTOMCOHEN 
Associated Press Writer 
JOHANNESBURG 
Back in the days of apartheid, few things angered white South Africans as much as the way blacks protested minority white rule by refusing to pay rent and utility bills. 
Now, with blacks in power and raising taxes, whites are adopt­ing the no-pay protest strategy. 
·The turnabout is one of the many ironies of post-apartheid South Africa, and it shows that whites learned something from years spent watching blacks fight the system. 
One of the most successful methods was the rent-and-rates boycott. In black townships throughout the country, resi­dents habitually refused to pay rent and utilities to object not only white rule but also their squalid living conditions. 
President Nelson Mandela's government, which took power two years ago in the nation's first all-race election, now wants blacks to start paying their bills. In some cases, as encouragement, city govern­ments and state-run utilities have written off millions of dol­lars in debts. 
But while some blacks are get­ting a clean slate, some whites complain they are suffering the financial brunt of the post­apartheid social policies. 
Before apartheid, white and black neighborhoods were gov­erned sepa­
rately. 

'They are going down a dangerous
Although whites usually path. I don't think they calculat­had money to 
ed the potential costs.' 
buy property, most blacks Mohamed Valli Moosa had to rent. 
Now, once segregated neighbor­hoods are merged under mixed­race governments -in most cases led by blacks. 
Some new local governments have started raising taxes to generate more money for public services and to uplift poor black areas. That means property owners, most of tht>m white, are paying more for a standard level of services. And most of the rev­enue is going to help their black neighbors. 
In protest -and to the gov­ernment's dismay-residents of the wealthy Sandton neighbor­hood of Johannesburg have launched a tax boycott. 
Recent property tax bills at least doubled for the almost exclusively white area, a collec­tion of walled mansions and prime business space best known for the upmarket Sandton City mall. 
Taxpayers' associations irnme­diately began their protest, pay­ing the previous amount plus a modest increase -usually 20 percent -but refusing to give the rest. They have the support of major corporations, such as Liberty Life, an insurance com­pany that owns the Sandton City mall property. 
"They are going down a dan­gerous path," warned Mohamed Valli Moosa, minister of Provincial Affairs in Mandela's government. "I don't think they calculated the potential costs." 


Saint Mary's Box Office, ~'laughlin Auditorium, Saint Mary's College 9om-5pm, Monday· Fnday. M O~AU Visa, MasterCard, and Discover orders 
C'C: 

~c~eptedbyphon~at?19/284·4626 c;:., 
d1scounts lor semor c1t1zens and groups 

Thursday, September 12, 1996 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 7 
INISTRY... -­
•.•CONSIDERATIONS 
0MPUS 
MINISTRY 


We are ND-isND 

Three weeks into the new academic year, most of us are settling into habits of study and · management that are harder to come by as the summer comes to an end, even for most disciplined among us. 
First year students still struggle with homesickness even as they rejoice in the new friend­ps that they have already formed. They begin to believe that they can get over a real ofloss and even grief because their parents, their little brother or sister, or even their are no longer a part of their formerly comfortable daily life and routine. But every­
ne has told them that classmates they meet during their first weeks on the campus will be the people who will serve in their bridal parties, attend their ordination to the priest­hood, and serve as godparents for their children. And it seems entirely likely that this will indeed be the case. 
ts from big American cities have discovered that they can look into the eyes of the they pass on the sidewalks on the quads and greet them, without glancing back and nervously to see whether or not they have made a BIG mistake, as their 
lstreet··wt':se instincts scream out. 
is weekend-our first home football weekend-we will chant that "We are NO" in the House that Rockne built" -the stadium of the "University of Notre Dame" as the beautiful new stadium expansion shell proclaims with such simple, understated class. I we will also reflect on the full meaning of a great cheer that has deep roots and 
uu'"'"""'' of students recently attended Activities Night at the Joyce Center -hours before they camped out in front of the same great, white domes with the hope of securing seats to stand in during all bur the half times of the six home football games -and of students decided on the ways they would serve our community through vol­services. Many dozens of exciting volunteer possibilities have been reduced to a or so. And a new generation of Domers has implicitly understood and accepted a tment to service during undergraduate years as many have before them. They fol­
lowed through and "signed up" for Logan Center, urban plunges, ministries in the Basilica, ,martial arts, Student Government, Freshmen Retreats, the Center for the Homeless, N.D.E. and the Alianza, among many other possibilities. 
Campus Ministry Events 


Thursday, September 12 -Thursday, Septmber 19 
0MPUS 
MINISTRY 

TWENTY-FOURTH SUNDAY IN ORDINARY TIME 
Service go at Notre Dame. Did you happen to notice the "standing room only" crowds at the Masses in the Basilica and in the residence halls during the past rwo Sundays? Did you feel comfortable wor­
shiping God at the Eucharist with scores of other young men and women from your dorm and quad as you rarely have before? Did you appreciate for the first time that you really wanted to "go to Mass," that you sang rather lustily with the mediocre voice God gave you? 
Service and worship go hand in hand at Notre Dame. 
All of this is an important part of the "NO" we proclaim when we declare that "We are NO." 
These days provide us with an important and passing moment to reflect on the choices and possibilities that lie before us in the area of faith and spirituality during the academic year that has just recently begun. Faith, and the support and development of a communi­ty of believers who pray and serve others, are central mission values for Notre Dame. 
Tie into Notre Dame as a community of believers where your faith can continue to be developed and strengthened. With the help of a lot of people, many of whom are your peers, learn how to live your life as a believer, so that as you go about your daily life, what you do reflects, no matter how dimly or faintly, the values of the Gospel ofJesus. 
Your one, rwo, three or four years here can truly mark your passage to adult Christianity. Take full advantage of the opportunities you will have here at Notre Dame to develop that living faith which has been passed on to you -make it your own. Because to glimpse even a little of the truth of who Jesus is, is to get the first faint glimpse of who you are and who you can become as a believer. 
May the coming years or your remaining years or months at Notre Dame, bring you into ever closer and more personal contact with Jesus, the word of life, the rich source of wis­dom and blessings, the Son of the Living God. 
What a University! What a community! 
Richard V. Warner, C.S.C. September 12, 1996 
O'Neill Family Hall RCIA Meeting & Picnic for Dedication Mass Candidates and Sponsors Friday, September 13, 4:00 p.m. Sunday, September 15, 12:30 p.m., Log Chapel  
Weekend Liturgies -Solemnity of Our Lady of Holy Cross Saturday, Sept. 14 Half-hour after the game, Basilica Rev. Daniel Jenky, C.S.C. 45 minutes after the game, Stepan Center Rev. Thomas Gaughan, C.S.C. Sunday, Sept. 15 8:00 a.m., Basilica Rev. Joseph Walter, C.S.C. 10:00 a.m.~ Basilica Rev. John Lahey, C.S.C. 11 :45 a.m., Basilica Rev. Thomas Gaughan, C.S.C. 7:15p.m., Vespers, Basilica Presider: Bro. Bonaventure Sully, CEX  
Campus Bible Study Tuesdays, 7:00 p.m., Campus Ministry-Badin Office  Lector Workshop Tuesday, September 17, 10:00 p.m., Basilica  
KAIROS (formerly 4th Day) Wednesday, September 18, 7:30p.m., Chapel of the Holy Cross (Stanford-Keenan Chapel)  

Come join Us... 
Confirmation, RCIA {Becoming a Catholic) and Catechist Formation Program, calll-5242 
page 8 The Observer • WASHINGTON NEWS Thursday, September 12, 1996 
Democrat 
attacks 
intensify 

By LARRY MARGASAK Associated Press Writer 
WASHINGTON 

The Republican-led House ethics committee probe of Newt Gingrich appears destined to outlast his first two-year term • as speak.er, a n d Democrats are trying to exact a political
price for Gingrich the inac­tion. After persistently accus­ing committee Republicans of stalling the 20-month investigation, Democrats are intensifying attacks on individual lawmakers, call­ing on one GOP member to resign from the panel and condemning others in their districts. Democrats are linking their assaults to the GOP refusal to make public an outside counsel's report submitted last month. James Cole's document was described by commit­

tee members as a summary 
of evidence -without con­
clusions -on whether 
Gingrich complied with tax 
laws when raising money 
for his unconventionally 
financed college course. 
To increase the pressure, 

Democrats are likely to 
force a vote on the House 
floor to make Cole's report 
public -and are consider­
ing other tactics, such as 
linking formal adjourn­
ment to action on the 
ethics case. 
"It's the same duck, delay 

and stall tactics going on 
for two years," said House 
Minority Whip David Bonior 
of Michigan, who is leading 
the Democratic effort. 
The minority Democrats 

shouldn't expect any GOP 
support, said Rep. Roger 
Wicker of Mississippi, who 
was freshman Republican 
class president last year. 
"The committee should 

proceed in the normal 
course of events and not be 
governed by the date of the 
election or the date of fmal 
adjournment," Wicker said. 
"We're fully expecting ... 
partisan salvos in the next 
three weeks." 
The ethics committee of 
five Republicans and five 
Democrats has often sput­
tered in partisan deadlock 

in the Gingrich case, 
although past committees 
have broken through such 
divisiveness to decide diffi­
cult cases. Democratic 
Speaker Jim Wright 
resigned in 1989 after the 
committee charged him 
with rules violations. 
Gingrich, who filed the 
complaint against Wright, 
demanded that the outside 
counsel's report in that 
case be made public, and 
the committee complied. 
"Can you imagine anyone 
wanting to serve on that 
committee in the future?" 
asked the think tank's 
Thomas Mann. "It has 
become so incredibly politi­
cized. You have an arms 
race going on here on 
ethics charges." 

Dole urges GOP not to be 'fainthearted' 
ByTOMRAUM 
Associated Press Writer 

WASHINGTON 
Trying to calm GOP jitters, Bob Dole por­trayed himself Wednesday as a lifetime sur­vivor against long odds -and for proof dis­played an ominous 1945 letter to his father from the Army. 
The letter regretfully informed Doran Dole that the recovery of his second-lieutenant son from World War II wounds "is some­what questionable." 
Dole, who spent years in hospitals recu­perating, produced the recently discovered letter to underscore that he's overcome daunting odds before. 
"I want to say to those fainthearted people in the audience -there are probably not very many -don't worry about this elec­tion, we're going to win. We're going to win. We're going to make it happen," Dole said. 
The former Senate majority leader and running mate Jack Kemp spoke at a sparse­code of ours," he said. ly attended joint meeting of House and The Capitol Hill session -in the auditori­Senate Republicans, many of whom are um-sized House Ways and Means sharing November ballots with them. Committee hearing room -was arranged "Don't let anyone dis-
.--...,..._,...=,....,....,....,.., .----------.. as a pep rally to help suade you in this effort" quiet fears that Dole's despite disappointing struggling campaign polls, Dole told his audi­could endanger GOP con­ence. He trails President trol of the House and Clinton by about 15 Senate. points in major national In some districts, polls. Republicans have been 
Later, at a campaign distancing themselves 
stop in Hartford, Conn., Dole Dole again exhorted sup­porters, "Don't pay any attention to the polls." 
He also told a business audience there that his election-year call for big tax cuts might seem at odds with his long Senate record. "None of us are perfect and we've all got voting records ... but it's time we moved on this complicated, outdated tax 
Kemp from the national ticket 
and seeking to share some of the credit with President Clinton for the growing economy. 
lfthere were any fainthearted in the audi­ence, they weren't admitting it. Sen. Larry Pressler, R-S.D., locked in a tough re-elec­tion race, called Dole's performance "a great speech" that "showed a lot of opti­mism." 

Save The People You Call UpTo 44%. 
For long-distance calls. Savings based on a 3-min. AT&T operator-dialed interstate call. 
VIEWPOINT 
September 13, 1996 page 9 
THE OBSERVER 

NOTRF DAME OHICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY'S OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1996-97 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Elizabeth Foran Managing Editors Business Manager Patricia Carson Man Casey Tum Ruland 

New• Editor ........................ Brad Prendergast Advertising Manager ............................ Ellen Ryan Vi~point Editor .................. Mcaghan Smith Ad Design Manager ............................... Jed Peters Sports Editor .....................Timothy Sherman Production Manager.......................Tara Grieshop Accent Editor........................... Joey Crawford Systems Manager ............................ Sean Gallavan 
Saim Mary'1 Editor................. Caroline Blum Controller .......................................... Tyler Weber Photo Editor .......................... Michael Ruma 
The ob..,rvcr is the independem newspaper published by the sruden" of the University ofNo!!e Dame Ju Lac and Saint Mary's College. h does not necessarily reAect the policies of the.adminisrra­liun ufeirhc:r insrirurion. The new!'i is reponed as accurarely and objectively as possible. Unsigned edi­toriills reprnC'nt thC' opinion of thC' majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Ediror, ViC'wpuint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. CommentariC's, lertC'ts dnd Inside" Columns ptC'senr the views of the authors, and nm necessarily those of The ( lb<ervet. Viewpoinr space is available to all members of the Nolle Dame/Saint Maty's com­munity o~.nd ro all rC".ader!l. The free expression of varying opinions rhrough lerrers is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines Ediwr-in-( :hief 631-4542 Business Office 631-5313 Mo~naging Ediror/Viewpoim 631-4541 Advertising 631-6900/8840 Spuns 631-4543 Systems/Marketing Dept. 631-8839 News/Photo 631-5323 Office Manager 631-7471 Accenr/Sainr Mary's 631-4540 Fax 631-6927 Day Ediwr/l'rO<Iucrion 631-5303 Viewpoint E-Mail Viewpoint.! @nd.edu {ienerallnfi.lrmottiun 631-7471 Ad E-Mail observer@darwin.cc.nd.edu 

• WHEN PIGS FLY .•• 
Voter apathy among youth in America 
To vote or not to vote: An SMC student ponders the question 
As a college student, very few new set of parents, or a ward of have decided not to vote in any vote by the beginning of information about local elec­of thn deci-the state, of the upcoming elections. I October? tions in the area, but that sions that 
nor do I suppose if I cared enough to Then there's the problem of would be getting carried away. will be dis-know vote in my home state I could actually registering to vote. I If welfare reform, health cussed this anyone go to the immense trouble of could look in the phone book care, and basic human rights ynar in the who is, finding out about absentee bal­under "State of Indiana" and don't mean anything to me, national and Bernadette a n d loting, but I'm usually too busy try to lind some information on then local issues like school loeal elec-therefore to' bother about that. It's such a voter registration, but that board elections mean even less. tions witt Pampuch I can't hassle. would involve Work. I could I'm only here in this South al'ft)ct me at imagine Tens of thousands of call my local library and ask Bend community for four years, all. myself refugees, victims of Bosnia's about getting which is hardly 
Almost being ethnic cleansing, are this week a mail-in reg­enough time to everyone I c o n -busying themselves with the istration '}could register to change the way know is paying for their college cerned over anyone who is. prospect of being bussed form, but that things are done.
vote here in 
t~ducations straight out of their What else won't I be worrying through a variety of war zones would once I am only one
Indiana, but it's unbe­
pockets. no help from Mom or about? Social seeurity benefits, in order to return to their again require of a mere ten Dad, no help from the govern­I suppose, because I am young native lands and vote, but I me to open up lievably difficult to do thousand or so nwnt, and this is why I overlook and always will be. can't lick a stamp and send a a phone book. so. Mostly you need a students on both tht) discussions Cuts in note back to the voter registra­The easiest campuses,
pulse and a reasonable
about linaneial aid the welfare tion office back home. thing to do enough to make for college stu­' A lmost ~very?ne I program, I could register to vote here in would be to I.Q. (although even a wave (or a Lou dents. I don't J-\.lmow 1s paymg because I Indiana, but it's unbelievably look up infor­that is up for discus­chant) in the know a single per­am rich and difficult to do-so. Mostly you mation on the stands but not
for their college educa­sion), and to fulfill the 
son who is work­everyone in need a pulse and a reasonable Internet, enough to make ing part-time at tions straight out of my family is I.Q. (although even that is up since I am following four require­a wave in the Don Pablo's or the their pockets, no help too. Special for discussion), and to fulfill the wealthy and ments: You must 1) be local elections. dining hall to education following four requirements: own a com­But in spite of
from Mom or Dad, no a citizen of the United 
cover the cost of issues, You must 1) be a citizen of the puter (hence it all, I know
help from the overn­States, 2) be at least 18
hooks, so the because no United States, 2) be at least 18 my lack of what is impor­debates on tax ment, and this is why I one I care years old on the day of the next interest in years old on the day of tant, and I know dnduetions and about needs general or municipal election, economic where my prior­
overlook the discus-the next general or 
minimum wage that kind of 3) have lived in your Indiana affairs con­ities lie.
sions about financial municipal election .
don't affect me help. precinct for at least 30 days cerning the Someone asked eitlwr. aid for college stu­Health before the next election, and 4) poor), but, me once, Sinee I rarely c a r e , not currently be in prison after well... "Which do you
dents.' 

fileh cheap pro­because I being convicted of a crime. It would, of course, be. ludi­think the average American duee from the din-am always It's just too much to consider, crous to circle the following would be more likely to sacri­ing hall or unknowingly wear healthy and the top-notch care and so difficult to understand. phone number (219-235-9521), fice: the right to watch televi­dothes produeed in sweatshops I receive from the Infirmary Am I or am I not in prison walk over to the phone, and call sion for the rest of their lives, at thn expense of illegal immi­(mostly in the form of Advil or (again, up for discussion)? How the St. Joseph County Board of or the right to vote?" grants, I couldn't care less Band-Aids) is more than old am I again? November 5th Voter Registration office in I think we all kflow the about issues eoncerning undoc­enough for me. minus thirty days is what date? South Bend to ask about getting answer, and this gives me hope umtmted workers. It is specifically because these October something? Does that a mail-in registration form. If I that I am not alone. 
I am not a single mother, a topics don't affect me that I mean that I should register to did, I might also ask for some 
r-----------------------------~ 
GARRY TRUDEAU 

• fiUOTE OF THE DAY
• 000NESBURY 
"The safest road to Hell is 
the gradual one-the gentle slope, soft underfoot, without sudden turnings, with­out milestones, without sign­
.posts." 
--C.S. Lewis 


~--·-~~ 

--------~--~-------· 

page 10 
Mango Jam offers mix of pop/Caribbean styles 
By JASON DORWART Assistnat Accent Editor 
When Mango Jam's original four members got together in Minneapolis they wanted to choose a name that truly fit their style. They saw them­selves as becoming a jam band with a sweetly tropical twist to their music. 
Mangos, being tropical fruit, seemed t.o be the perfect coun­terpart to the idea that they do jam.
The band r---------------, y o u ? ' 
relies heavi- But  it  
Iy  on  the  s e e m s  
rhythmic  c  o m  - 
interplay of  pIe t e I y  
kit  drum- natural  
mer  Bret  to me."  
Erickson  While  
and percus­ the songs  
sionist Geoff  may  be  
Prettner.  rather  
p r e t t n e r  Courtesy of Shananchie Entertainment  d i V e r S e  
joined band  the for  Unfortunately Mango Jam couldn't play tonight, but might be back for AnTostal.  M an go Jam does  

exactly this reason. Erickson says that he and Prettner had been "kicking rhythms back and forth since" they were 17. They have a similar style of drumming so that they compliment each other's style. 
While jamming is what the band is all about they also have managed to write catchy 3 minute pop songs with hooks. Mango Jam opens their Shanachie Entertainment debut album, Flux, with such a song. 
"Crushed" relies on a one-word shouted chorus that can be catchy although it isn't the most complex of songs. 
The band explains that they can't stand to play any one kind of music for too long. 
Says Jason Bush, guitarist and primary songwriter, "I'll write an alternative sounding song, and then I'll write this Caribbean kind of deal. If you put them back to back, it's like 'What kind of schizophrenic 
freak are 
h a v e their unmistakable trademark: their island sound which is a result of Bush's Hawaiian child­hood, as well as the similarity of Bush's and bassist Jon Herchert's vocals. 
Mango Jam is presently tour­ing the Midwest, and was intending on playing at Saint Mary's tonight. Unfortunately, the band was forced to cancel for a number of various rea­sons, but is hoping to possibly come back for AnTostal. 

VARIOUS ARTISTS 

Courtesy of Mammoth Records 

Jabberjaw is a tiny L.A. coffee house/concert venue in a 
bad neighborhood. A few years ago philanthropic musi­cians such as Hole, Helmet, Beck, Jawbox, and Girls Against Boys teamed up for a benefit a'lbum to raise money for the relocation of the club. 
Apparently the money wasn't enough, for a fresh crop of artists have united for Jabberjaw: Pure Sweet Hell. Only this time out the names aren't as big and the songs aren't as impressive. There are some gems, but too often they're sandwiched between stale songs by bands that rarely impress. The sloppy, beer-soaked opener by Fitz of De­pression does little more than add some ethanol to Land Speed Record era Husker Du. 
The always irritating, two-headed drum and bass mon­ster of Godheadsilo rears its ugly head with yet another gut-wrenching rumble. Man ... or Astroman? continue to perform the same trick with their tired old pony, testing any listeners limit for their Ed Wood space-surf rock. 
But the greatest tragedy is the brutal slaughtering of The Smiths "How Soon Is Now" by bottom of the Buzz Bin 
JAWBOX 

Courtesy of Atlantic Records 

• WVFI CORNER 
MONO PUFF 
Unsupervised 

(out of five) 

As someone who is a lifelong They Might Be Giants freak, I just about fell to pieces at the prospect of a John Flansburgh side project.Frankly, it lives up to the Flansburgh name, and cold be made only better with a few stronger tracks toward the end of the album. . Take one part They Might Be Giants, one part Man ... or Astroman?, and one part, oh, let's say Weezer and you get a fairly close idea ofwhere Mono Puff stands. 
The album, Unsupervised, begins with an instrumental showcase for what the band can do with a guitar in the appropriately named "Guitar Was the Case." This song is heavily influenced by such stars as Dick Dale and the Pixies in their surf rock mode. 
"Unsupervised, I Hit My Head" sounds like it could be from John Flansburgh's main pro­ject's era of the Apollo 18 album. 
The record touches on the country side of music with "Don't Break My Heart." This song's slow melodic picking of the guitar cre­ates this feel along with that slight country twang. 
With "Distant Antenna" Mono Puff experi­ments with the use of an organ and the sound of funk. Uke most of the songs it has a spacey feel. The guitar is light and the vocals are airy and fll.tered with distortion. 
For a more straight forward rock and roll feel "The Devil Went Down to Newport (It Was Totally Rocking)" with its foundations in early surf music and 1980's post-punk. 
. The nice thing about this album is that each 
Jabberjaw: Pure Sweet Hell 

(out of five) 

Jawbox 
Somewhere under his shirt, Jawbox drummer Zachary Barocas is hiding a third arm. This can be the only expla­nation for Barocas' polyhedral drumkit assault on the D.C. quartet's fourth LP. 
In fact, every member of Jawbox must be keeping extra­sensory or extra-digital talents hidden from the world. How else can one explain the bands uncanny skill for applied tension, multi-layered interweaving, and melodic resonance? 
On 1994's major label debut, For Your Own Special Sweetheart , Jawbox redefined what it meant to jump from do-it-yourself to the big boys and still maintain creative control and edge. 
In fact. the band h.as grown considerably more creative since their departure from D.C. indie-bastion Dischord Records, simultaneously increasing technical complexity and pop sensibility. 
The guitar and vocal dueling of J. Robbins and William Barbot is arguably the most inventive and refreshing six­string duo in modern rock. Two guitars finally have a pur­pose as Barbot arid Robbins play off each other, accenting, expanding, and tweaking the conventional chord progres­sions and melodies of post-punk rock. 
Thursday, September 12, 1996 

of its thirteen tracks experiment with a differ­ent genre of music. This does however leave it somewhat disconnected from song to song. The album is brought together slightly through consistency of the funky bass guitar and the lighthearted vocals of Flansburgh. 
There is a guest vocalist, however, on "Don't I Have the Right?" Nancy Lynn Howell offers her voice on this bittersweet country/folk song. 
Ska and salsa are brought together on the album, as well, with the upbeat "Dr. Kildare." A trumpet player is worked into the mix of this song that suddenly is restructured with a tech­no style drum loop during its bridge. 
Other songs explore artificial sounds and dif­ferent combinations of drums and bass guitar. For the most part this album is fairly light­hearted and experimental with a few up-tempo songs thrown in to keep your attention when you start to forget to listen to the uniqueness of the way the band examines new sounds in music; not to say that the experimentation is not amusing. 
For any They Might Be Giants fan this .album is a must, and should attract interest from any­one who can appreciate the fmer points in all various types of music. 
-by Chris Owen, WVFI 
artists Everclear. 

Fortunately, Pure Sweet Hell features three excellent swan songs from bands who recently threw in the towel. Jawbreaker's "Sister" is the standout track on the album. The melodic farewell of "Sister" is final evidence of Jawbreaker's supremacy over the pop-punk genre. 
Clikitat Ikatowi's primal rock fury and the Coctail's jazz­swing-punk instrumental will hopefully earn posthumous respect from new fans. 
The mellow acoustics of Mary Lou Lord is a welcome departure from the patriarchal stomp of the rest of the album, as is the Beatles sounding "Star Lust" from Redd Kross. Brainiac and the Hi-Fives also contribute pogoing numbers. 
All in all, Jabberjaw: Pure Sweet Hell is far better than most haphazard soundtrack compilations. However, a pro­grammable CD player or remote control is recommended to filter out the handful of throwaway's. 
-by Brent DiCresenzo 

(out of five) 

Rhythmically cemented in the deep, tight rumble of Kim Coletta and Barocas, Jawbox's songs offer pleasant sur­prises listen after listen. 
John Agnello's (Dinosaur Jr., Chavez) production could serve as a textbook on recording and mixing, as Jawbox's sound is fully spread over multiple tracks. 
Faint vocals from across the room, subtle strings and acoustic guitar, Barbot screaming, and Coletta's beautiful harmony are carefully layered under the immediate roar of the songs. 
Without a weak track to be found, Jawbox is an impres­sive album right down to the sequencing. "Iodine" is easily the best pop song the band has ever penned. The three punch combo of "His Only Trade", "Chinese Fork Tie", and "Won't Come Off' best illustrate the recent progress of Jawbox's controlled chaos and sing-along vocals. 
In fact, every song is instantly memorable and humma­ble. A trademark which in the end sets Jawbox above and beyond the slew of other indie-rockers and post-punk out­fits. 
-by Brent Dicresenzo 
Thursday, September 12, 1996 
page 11 
Mellencamp returns to his earlier style 
• CLASSICAL COLUMN 
By DAN CICHALSKI 
A»i.,tam Accent Editor 

(out ot five) 

John Mellencamp is back. In many ways. lie's back from a heart attack he suf­fnrnd while on tour two years ago. lie's back with a new 
al hum, .tthhed firtsl t sAincd·e hh!s 
scare wt ea 1. n e s back to tho styln that made him a pop favoritP. and cham­pion of the lleartland. 
The new album, Mr. Happy Go J.ucky, contains twelve tracks that are reminiscent of early Mellencamp creations such as Scarecrow and The J.onesome Jubilee. The simi­laritins are mostly in the lyrics, but some of the music will remind long-time admir­nrs of the "Johnny Cougar" from before his two latnst albums, /Iuman Wheels and /Janet! Naked. 
Thn songs cover a range of topics: "Jerry" is a character study of a thirty-seven year old who "sees the world throt~.gh" a ten year old boy·~ eyns ; Just Another Day, about a pair of laid-back guys who "don't work and they don't want to"; and "bnotional Love," the only song on tlw album not written by Mellnneamp (it's the brain­ehild of bassist Toby MyBrs). 
Thn lyrics are from the point of vi11w of a man in a rnlutionship with a woman who has a bettnr understand­ing of "such emotional love/Not for beginners/or Sunday sinners. "For Mr. Jlappy Go J.ucky. Mellencamp brought back tlw sumP. band from his early days and made orw important addition that afTm:tml the music but not the hand. Junior Vasquez, a New York danc11 dub mixer and prod ucnr, was invited along 
as  a  eo-producer  for  the  
album.  
Tlw msult is a revived,  col­ 

lnction that nwlds tlw guitar­drivnn sounds of the Bloomington, Indiana native with mor11 danee-oriented mixes that make snveral of tlw songs morn danceable than onn would expect on a dassic roek/pop album. 

Courtesy of Mercury Records 
After a heart attack and a two year hiatus John mellencamp is back with an album that should please fans of his earlier work. 
"Overture" is a creative opening to Mr. Happy Go Lucky. A two-minute orches­tral piece, this first track mimics traditional overtures so common in Broadway musicals. In the same way that show overtures may be a medley of music from the songs to come, Mellencamp's "Overture" takes parts from the cuts on the album and blends them together. 
The first single, "Key West Intermezzo (I Saw You First)" resembles previous Mellen­camp hits in that it quickly grows on its listBners. It's the kind of song that begs drivers to roll down the windows and turn up the volume while fly­ing down the roadway. 
The catchy chorus is just one example of amusing lyrics and phrases that are scat­tered throughout the album: "I saw you firstll'm the first one tonight/1 saw you first/Don't that give me the rightll'o move around in your heart/Everyone was looking/But I saw you first." lilly, findnr's keepers.... 
"The Full Catastrophe," whose title was taken from an Anthony Quinn phrase in "Zorba the Greek," is a blues­driven and semi-autobio­graphical song. ''I'm glad to say I've enjoyed everyday/Of the full catastrophe of life," Mellencamp sings. "I've opened my belt to trouble everyday/... I've seen the goodnessll've known the bad­dest around." 

The final track, "Life Is Hard," contains a funky, jazzy baseline throughout and the familiar sounds of violins dur­ing the chorus that have fre­quently given Mellencamp's compositions that Midwestern, smalJ.. town feel­ing. 
"Life is funny, I don't mean ha-hallt's not always sunny when it needs to be/Life is frightening, nothing lasts for­ever/Life is hard," he sings, enabling this song-and oth­ers o.n Mr. Happy Go Lucky­to reach the listeners on a personal level, allowing them to relate and view life the same way Mellencamp does. 
He's not singing about Jack and Diane growing up in Pink Houses in a Small Town the way he used to, but John Mellencamp is still singing about life from a common perspective and dealing with topics and telling stories to which many listeners can relate. 
WSND-Nocturne 

Top 10 Albums Top 5 Songs 
1. Sublime -Sublime 1. "Lust for Life" -lggy Pop 
Trainspotting Soundtrack 
2. Primitive Radio Gods -Rocket 
3. Trainspotting Soundtrack 
2. "What I Got''-Sublime 
Sumblime

4. 
Republica-Ready to Go 

5. 
The Eels -Beautiful Freak 


3. "Who We Are" -Pearl Jam 
No Code 

6. Cranberries -Free to Decide 
7. Cracker-The Golden Age 
4. "Free to Decide" -Cranberries 
8. Emmet Swimming -Arlington 
Free to Decide to Boston 
5. "Standing Outside" -Primitive 
9. Pearl Jam -No Code Radio Gods 
Rocket

10. Why Store -Why Store 
Computer Music and 'SlVing' Tunes Kick off Classical Concert Season. 
By MIKE ANDERSON and JULIE BRUBAKER Accent Writers 
Well, it wasn't as rowdy as a Stomper Bob concert, but it was one wild and lively musical event. 
New Music from Notre Dame, a faculty compositional recital held last Sunday in the Annenberg Auditorium of the Snite Art Museum featured students and faculty members premiering compositions by Professors Ethan Haimo and Paul Johnson. 
This concert began Notre Dame's Classical Music Series in a far from classic way -with modern and atonal works. 
The first piece, Paul Johnson's Twelve Preludes, was performed entirely by a computer. Concert-goers were impressed by the vari­ety and intensity of Johnson's composition, which was done without a single performer on stage. Despite the fact that he used some familiar instrumentation such as the piano, harpsichord, and even the celesta, it was clear that these twelve short pieces were not meant for human execution. 
The music itself frankly sounded like movie music. These com­puter-generated pieces had Star Wars-and Indiana Jones-like effects -for a moment, we felt like we were searching for the holy grail! 
Some of the preludes mimicked Bach and Chopin with Johnson's insertion of rather stunning rhythmic twists and melodic variations. Using his synthesizer and MIDI system, Johnson proved that com­puter music was anything but music for the lazy and inept. 
To add to the variety ofmusieal genres, Paul Johnson's Swing Tunes were premiered by outstanding junior soloist Laura Portune, with the accompaniment of Peter Gedney and Hyun Lee. 
Portune's sparkling performance of the three swing tunes brought out a Breathless Mahoney-like character that her campus following had almost ruled out. It was apparent thought that she had indeed captured the sentiments of the 1930s jazz re-creation. 
One last highlight of this diverse concert was Ethan Haimo's Duo Sonata for Violin and Cello. This twelve-tone composition (a salute to early twentieth-century atonal composer Arnold Schonberg) was written expressly for senior music majors Jeanine Wynton (violin) and Miriam Eckelhoefer {cello). Their complete understanding and mastery of control once again underscored the virtuosity of the two musicians. 
liow many times do you hear Hooked on a Feeling on the radio these days? The song is more than twenty years old and still rec­ognizable by many, but rarely heard. 
Some pieces of music never die, though. They have been around for centuries and are still popular. Most people call this music classical-an all-encompassing colloquial term for music from the Renaissance through the early twentieth-century. 
Certainly, there must be a reason why this music continues to be heard not only on our campus, but all over the world. We feel it is because this is music of such a seholarly, yet entertaining nature that it cannot be ripped to shreds by critics, despite centuries of analysis and often harsh criticism. 
On campus and in the South Bend area , there are numerous concerts every year of the classical nature. Some of these concerts feature music from over 500 years ago; some (like this past con­cert) feature music less than one year old. 
Each year, top performers, not only of purely classical music but of contemporary, avant-garde music, come to South Bend and Notre Dame to educate and yet provide a delightful form of enter­tainment. It is our mission to keep the Notre Dame community aware of the past and upcoming quality musical events on campus and in the area. 
Catch us next week on Sunday, September 15th, at 2 p.m. in the Annenberg Auditorium at the Snite! We'll be listening to the dark, warm sounds of Christine Rutledge, Professor of Viola. It is time well spent to take an hour out of a hectic day and attend these campus and local events-by the way, they're free!! 
In the coming weeks, we will take a look ahead giving you some inside information on upcoming events like the Percussion Group. a group of educated pots-and-pans drummers who put on quite a show that is oddly reminiscent of Caribbean Relaxation tapes. Also, we are anxiously awaiting a formal piano recital by Joel Cummins, a senior music major. Well, we know him better as the immensely talented Stomper Bob keyboardist! 
We invite you join us as we journey through an exciting fall con­cert season of classical and cutting-edge music) 
Mike Anderson is a senior Marketing and music major from Fisher Hall. 
Julie Brubaker is a junior English and music major from Pasquerilla West. 
I 
----~----------------------~---------· --·------~-·---~-----------~----­
I page 12 The Observer • SPORTS Thursday, September 11, 1996 
I 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. 
Classifieds Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
NOTICES 
Attention all LESBIAN, GAY, BfSEX­UAL, or QUESTIONING students: the first support group meeting will be held TODAY at 7:30 p.m. Everyone seeking or offering support for lesbian and gay issues should attend. Please call the Q-LINE at 236-9661 for the location. 
ATIENTION JAZZ ENTHUSIASTS Now is the time for us to come together! If you have a passion for JAZZ, or have ever wondered what JAZZ is all about, call Curtis at 634-1605 for more infonnation. ATIENTION JAZZ ENTHUSIASTS 
Thank you Blessed Brother Andre for prayers answered. 
Entertainment Electronics Co. 3509 Grape Ad(@ Classic Stereo) 255-1172 Hrs:M-F11-5Sat. 10-2 You break it, we'll fix it!! I 
THAT PRETTY PLACE, Bed and Breakfast Inn has space available for football wknds. 5 Rooms with private baths, $70-$90, Middlebury, 30 miles from campus. Toll Road, Exit #107, 1-800-418-9487 
FOR A GREAT RATE ON 
RENTERS & AUTO INS. 
CALL RANDY 257-9572 
AMERICAN FAMILY INS. 
INTERESTED IN DEBATE? 
lnfonnational meeting this THURS> 
7pm 302 La Fortune 
ILOST & FOUND I 
REWARD!! If anyone has or knows 
someone who has my black 
Jansport backpack with a camara 
and datebook inside, I will 
gladly give a reward for its retumll 
Please, I would really, really,really 
appreciate it!! NO QUESTIONS 
ASKED!! 
Call 634-1403. 
WANTED 
HELP WANTED-$10.25 Part-time work. Flexible eve. and weekend hours. No exp. required. All majors welcome. Scholarships available. Info-call 282-2357 
HIGH SCHOOL STUDENTS(3) 
NEED TUTORS FOR GEOMETRY. 
ANALYTICAL GEOMETRY & TRIG 
PHYSICS. BIOLOGY. & GENERAL 
STUDY HELP. PREFER TUTOR 
TO COME TO HOME(5 MIN FROM 
ND). BUT OTHER ARRANGE­
MENTS CAN BE MADE 272-8235 
AEROBIC INSTRUCTOR-Volunteer aerobic instructor needed to work at Center For The Homeless. If inter­ested please call Megan at 271­9342. 
NATIONAL PARKS HIRING­
Positions are now availalbe at 
National Parks, Forests & Wildlife 
Preserves. Excellent benefits + 
bonuses! Call: 1-206-971-3620 
extN55848 
ALASKA SUMMER EMPLOYMENT -Students Needed I Fishing Industry. Earn up to $3,000-$6,000+ per month. Room and Board! Transportation! Male or Female. No experience necessary. Call (206)971-3510 extA55847 
EASTERN EUROPE JOBS-Teach basic conversational English in Prague, Budapest, or Krakow. No teaching certificate or European lan­guages required. Inexpensive Room & Board + other benefits. For info. call: (206)971-3680 ext.K55842 
Earn extra money in only live min­utes a day! Carriers needed to deliv­er the Chicago Tribune within the dorms. Call 684-4302 for more infonnation. 
EARN SOME EXTRA $ caring for 3 adorable children. 1 or 2 days, near campus. 287-9669. 
SWIM COACH-ASSISTANT COACH NEEDED FOR LOCAL AGE GROUP SWIM TEAM. PRIOR COACHING EXPERIENCE HELP­FUL. CALL TOM AT 289-SWIM OR 232-0589. 
NICE HOME NORTH OF ND 
2773097 HUGE ND FAN DESPERATE FOR 5 GAs FOR RUTGERS. CALL PAT (813)360-2243. 
I HAVE A GREAT -HOPEFULLY PROFITABLE -IDEA FOR A COM­PUTER GAME. NEED ASSOCI­ATES TO HELP WITH IT. CALL TOM 288-5655. 
NEED PT SITIER M & W AFTER­NOONS & EVENINGS. PLEASE CALL 273-9512. 
Hundereds of Students Are Earning Free Spring Break Trips & Money! Sell 8 Trips & Go Freel Bahamas Cruise $279, Cancun & Jamaica $399, Panama City/Day1ona $1191 www.springbreaktravel.com 1-800-678-6386 
•••FREE TRIPS & CASH* .. Find out how hundreds of student representatives are already earning FREE TRIPS and LOTS OF CASH with America's #1 Spring Break com­pany! Sell only 15 trips and travel free! Cancun, Bahamas, Mazatlan, Jamaica, or Florida! CAMPUS MAN­AGER POSITIONS ALSO AVAIL­ABLE. Call Now! TAKE A BREAK STUDENT TRAVEL (800)95-BREAK! 
SOCCER REFEREES Students needed to referee soccer games for southside elementary school (Grades 5-8), located near Scottsdale Mall on Miami Street. All games scheduled between 4:00PM and 5:30PM, Monday-Friday, Sept 9 -Oct.29. $15.00-$20.00 per game. Must have referee uniform. Call 291­4200 or 291-8731. 
SOCCER/X-COUNTRY/BASKET­BALL COACH Responsible stu­dent/grad student needed to coach girls soccer or basketball teams, coed x-country for southside elemen­tary schoool (Grades 5·8), located near Scottsdale Mall on Miami Street. Practice 1 :30-2:30 or 2:15­3:15PM, Mon-Thurs. Allsoccer/BB scheduled between 4:00Pm and 5:30PM, Monday­Friday. Coach Soccer Sept9­0ct./Basketball Jan-March. Paid position -Please call 291-4200 or 287-6899 for application. 
ENGLISH GRAD OR MAJOR: 
To read & edit school manuals. 
Good $-your own time. 
IHRD 273-1952 8-5 M-F 
COMPUTER HELP 
Create layouts, fonns, brochures. 
etc. for small office. Good pay-your 
own time. 
IHRD 273-1952 8-5M-F 
Looking for an outgoing public rela­tions rep. to represent a chiropractic center at local health screenings. Paid training. Part lime. Average $8­$9/hour. For more information call (219)282-2828. 
Need F student to care for child PT 
in home while I work. Near Notre 
Dame. Call April289-9914 
COLLEGE COUPONS -the student coupon book you love to use is seek­ing a local sales representative! Earn $7/hr. or MORE! Put your sales experience to good use. Must have car. Call soon67-8393 ask for Janet. 
FOR RENT 
NICE HOME NORTH OF ND 
2773097 
WALK TO CAMPUS 
2-3-4-5 BEDROOM HOMES 
232-2595 
ROOMS-NIGEL Y DECOR. IN PRI­
VATE HOME, 2 MI. N. OF CAM­
PUS. FOOTBALL WKNDS., CONT. 
BKFST INCL. CALL KIM 277-8340 
House for rent Lake Maxinkukee 45 min Notre Dame 4BD. CA FP APPL. $650.317-942-2108 after 6-317-942-2408. 
THE PRIMROSE PATH B&B, locat­ed 20 minutes north of campus, is a 1905 Victorian with 4 quiet guest rooms. Bountiful full breakfasts. "Michiana Now!" Reader's choice as one of "Michiana's Best of 1996". http://www.laketolake.com/inns/prim­rosepathldirectorypage 616-695-6321 
ROOMS IN PRIVATE HOME FOR 
ND-SMC EVENTS. 
IDEAL FOR FOOTBALL WEEK­
ENDS. 
VERY CLOSE TO CAMPUS. 
243-0658. 

FOOTBALL WEEKENDS ROOM W/PRIVATE BATH IN QUIET AREA. 25 MINS. FROM ND. 
219-674-8186. 
FORSALE I 
1986 MAZDA 323 4 DOOR, 5 SPEED, A/C, AMIFM CASSETIE, 106 K, EXCEL­LENT CONDITION. $2500. CALL 272-4562 
87 Mazda auto 90k Great Condition 2300 John 631-6414 
85 Escort Wagon 5 speed 76730 miles new muffler new battery runs great. $ 700. Call 2730558 
Couch for sale. Will deliver to campus. 1-5766. 
Mac Pwrbk $400,best offer X3097 
Who Needs A Bed? 2 new single beds for salel Mattress. Boxspring, and Headboard included. Asking $275 each. Call Jarrod at 

234-7601. 

92 JETIA 67K SSP, CRUISE, SUN­ROOF,+. $8,500 287-1521 
1992 Nissan 240SX SE. Auto. Loaded. Only 35K miles. $11,800. Call 233-5409. 
'78 SILVER ANNIVERSARY 
CORVETIE, 30,000 MILES. 
$9,500 FIRM. 
CALL 243-0658. 
2 OSU GA's 4 Sale 
271-2837 

12 Speed touring bike 
Kevelar Wave tires Aero bars $175.00 (219)262-3739 
TICKETS 
NOTRE DAME GA'S WANTED ALL GAMES HOME AND AWAY 232-0058 24 HAS. BUY -SELL -TRADE 
TICKET-MART, INC. 
WANTED: NOTRE DAME GA'S 
ANY/ALL GAMES. PLEASE CALL 
232-0061. 

I NEED FOOTBALL GA'SI 
WILL BEAI ANY OFFER! 
CALL 243-1287 
Need to buy up to 6 PURDUE TIX­
GA or STUDENT. Call Meg @232­
7839 

Dave Mathews/Black Crowes 1st10 Rows 232-0058 
JUNIOR PARENT WEEKEND 
RUTGERS TICKETS AVAILABLE 
PLEASE CALL 232-0058 
NEED 2 OHIO STATE GA 
TIX...WILL PAY$$$ 
Call Gina 243-0771 
WILL TRADE 2 PITI GA's OR 2 
RUTGERS FOR 2 PURDUE 
2WASH 20SU OR2BC 2773097 
WANTED: Black Crowestix ... 
need at least 2 or up to 5. call 
wendy at 243 -9430. 
Desperately Need AIR FORCE 
tickets (Stu or GAs)! 
Call Steph 634-4135 
NEED 2 STD TIX BOOKLETS CALL GIOVANA@ 1-4872 
!IIIIPLEASE HELP!! II! I NEED PURDUE STUD. AND GA TIX IN A BAD WAY. CALL SOON, x-2235 (Seth or Ben) 
Need 3 Washington GAs. Will pay 
big $$. x3226 
NEED 2 PURDUE GAs 
Call Kieran@634-4487 
Needed: One Student Ticket for 
Purdue game. x2085 
NEED OHIO ST. TICKETS!! 
TOP$$ CALL (219)277-1646 
WANTED 2 GAs ND VS OHIO S 
CALL COLLECT 215-355-7131 
RON 

ND GRAD WILL TRADE HIS 2 
TEXAS/NO TICKETS FOR 2 OHIO 
STATE/NO. CALL (313)821-2499 ND parents need 2 Purdue tickets. Call (630)810-D710. 
GA TICKETS WANTED GA ONLY A LOCAL BUSINESS WOULD LIKE TO PURCHASE 2 OR 4 SEASON TICKETS OR INDIVIDUAL GAMES ;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;277-1659 
FOR SALE RUTGER TICKETS GA. RUTGERS "CHEAP" ............. RUTGERS 272­7233 RUTGERS.... 
NEED 2 OHIO ST. TICKETS G.A.or S.A. Please call ANNE 
@634-3847. 
BIG BUCKS Paid for Stud. or GA tickets. Purdue a must, other home games too. ALEX @ 232-7324 
NEED 4 GAs for WASH call CHRISSY @ 273-2580 
********GA•s FOR SALE********** 
2 GA'S together available for every game except Wash. & Pitt. Contact Derek -3028 
$$$$ NEED 2 PURDUE GA'SI!I Will pay big $$$ Call Marty 271-9069 
Selling 3 great Purdue tickets togeth­er. Accepting highest offer. Call Kelly: 4-0847 
Will trade ND home game tix for Texas vs. ND tickets. 288-841 8 
TICKETS NEEDED All home games GA's Preferred CALL NICK AT X-2101 
PURDUE TICKET PACKAGES!! TICKETS AND ROOM FOR 2 
NIGHTS!! 
CALL BILL FOR INFO 
800-41 0-5573 
LV. MSG. WI NAME I# 
$$ $$ $$ $$ $$ $$ $$ 
Band member needs THREE 
WASHINGTON TICKETS for aunt's 
visit. Stud/GA. Alyssa x1554 
I NEED MANY PURDUE GA'S 
PLEASE CALL MIKE-243-9403 
Need tickets? I have an unsigned, 
brand-spanking new student 
ticket book for sale. Call Dylan at 
x2173, and it can be yours today. 
I NEED TICKETS FOR THE ND-TEXAS GAME $$ CALL TOM @ 634-4522 $$ 
WANTED: 1 Purdue, 2 Ohio St. tix 
PLEASE call 243-9357!! 
I need GA's for Purdue 
Call Hank @ xt. 1648 
FOR SALE: 2 Purdue, 4 OSU,4 
Wash Stud tix! call Jen@687-8435 
Two Purdue GA's for sale. 
Kevin x3000 
married student tickets for sale. call 
2711715. 
...Hey!•.. Help me find two Washington GAs for my parent's first ND game, calllnga @ X2538 
DESPERATE for 4tix to WASH game (GA or stud). Need to make stud tix into GAs. Offering hand­some reward. Call 4-3592 for Ryan. 
<<>Dave Matthews TiX<>> 
Two golden seats for DMB 
Call Mickey at 1350 
NOTRE DAME GA'S WANTED 
ALL GAMES HOME 
AND AWAY 
232-0058 
24 HAS. 
BUY -SELL -TRADE 
TICKET-MART, INC. 
WANTED: NOTRE DAME GA'S 
ANY/ALL GAMES. PLEASE CALL 
232-0061. 
I NEED GA TIXS ALL HOME 
GAMES.272-6551 
N.D. FOOTBALL GA TIX BOUGHT & SOLD 232-2378 -A.M. 288-2726-P.M. 
WANTED TO BUY OHIO STATE 
OR WASH. VS. ND.D TIX-CALL 
DAVE (614)764-7355 
Need Texas tickets for family who 
lives in area. Call Samantha at 4­
2550. 
Need Two Washington G.A.'s for family, my tuition depends on it. Will pay HUGE bucks! Call Matt@ 234-8474 Thanks. 
FINANCIAL REWARDS AWAIT YOU I Alum seeks happiness & fuzzy school memories. Will gleefully pay TOO MUCH $ for 2 GA tixs. OHIO & WASHINGTON preferred, but not picky. Please call our business col­lect, (9-4), & ask for TED or JEN­NIFER. 616-925-0629 
NEED: 5 PURDUE. 5 OHIO STATE, 2 AIR FORCE, AND 2 WASHING­TON TICKETS. PLEASE HELP ME!!! CALL SUSAN X4268. 
WANTED: TICKETS OSU VS ND 614-687-0380 CALL COL­LECT AFTER 9:00PM TOP$ PAID 
Need 6-8 GA Tix. AIR FORCE 913-541-3240 
n. d. tickets for sale 271 1635 
$$$$ I NEED STUD. TIX Booklet!! Will pay big $$$ Call Mike 243-9224!! 
I NEED a Purdue STUD Tix Call Mike 243-9224 
$NEED OSU, WASH, & AF TIX 
216-995-1902 5-7 PM EDT M-F 
216-650-5264 7-9 PM EDT M-F 
PLEASE HELP!!!! I need three GA'S for Purdue. call Brian@ 2182 
Need 1 tic for Purdue 
Call Dave @ x4798 
NEED STU BKL TS 
REG & MARRIED 
2719387 

I need 2 Purdue tix-want to trade for 2 Pitt GA's? Call 802 273-2554 
ND ALUM NEEDS 
OSU/WASH/AF/RUT/PITI TIX 
CALL MIKE 212-372-7214 
Need tickets for N.D.-Texas Sept.21 
Call 1-600-840-3548 
NEED 2 OR 4 TIX FOR PURDUE, 
OSU, OR WASH CALL BILL 614­
885-4616 

REALLY REALLY NEED WASH­INGTON GA'S. PLEASE CALL 243­9398 OR 273-9278 ASAP. 
NEED 2-4 GA TIX 

ALL HOME GAMES. 
CALL 276-2010/288-2877 AFT 5 
NEED ND-OSU GA FOOTBALL TIX. PLEASE CALL 277-4221. 
NEED2 PUR GA 
WILL PAY WELL 
call X4856 

Need Ohio State tickets. 
Call any1ime. 302-832-7786 
NEED OSU TIX! 

WILLING TO BUY OR TRADE! 
CALL4-1440 

TRADE ONLY-2 WA GAs for 2 
OSU GAs-273-8379. 
ND DAD NEEDS TWO (2) GAs FOR PURDUE, OHIO STATE AND WASHINGTON. CALL LARRY (219)422-6088 
I AM DESPERATE FOR A GA OR STUDENT TICKET FOR PURDUE!! CALL BUFFY AT 243-9038 
Garcia Needs 3 Purdue Tix. 233-4008 
Need 2 tix for Purdue & Ohio St. 
Call243-9357. 

NEED 2 TIX FOR AIRFORCE.call 
mattx3573 

DESPERATELY NEED WASH. 
GA'S. CALL #2456 
I NEED 2 STUDENT BOOKLETS 
AND/OR 

2 PURDUE TICKETS!! I 
PLEASE CONTACT 
COLLEEN X3714 

MARRIED AND REG ST BOOKLETS OR TIX 4 SALE 232-1004 
NEED 2 OHIO ST GA'S ­
WILL TRADE 2 RUTGRS GA'S 
+ $$ 634-1382. 
married stud tix books for sale 232 4827 
Need 2 Pitt GA's call Sean x-3311 
needed for my family 2-5 GA'sfor Ohio State. Washington or Air Force Call4-3468 
NEED 2 PURDUE GA's WILL PAY$ 50 A PIECE CALL JON @ 634-1389 

:-) Family coming this weekend. NEED 2 PURDUE GA's for parents e~nd 1 stud tix for sister. Call KEITH x0873(-: 
In desperate need of TWO TEXAS TICKETS!!! Will trade two USC or two Rutgers or pay $$$. Call Colby @ 634-1468. 
Alum needs 2-4 AIR FORCE Tix for Family 612-742-7638 Collect 
Need tix (not student) for Purdue game. Call collect630-961-0632 

NEED STUD. TIX & GA'S BAAADL Y CALL 271-8279 $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ 
Need Purdue tickets. 284-5450 
WANTED-2 GOOD TICKETS TO AIR FORCE $50.00 PER TICKET (515)266-6038 

Wanted: 2 or more GAs @ face $ for home games. 4121352-2219 
Badly need 1 stud. or Ga for Purdue!! Danni 271-3696 

MARRIED STUD BKS 4SALE 273­2331 
##### HEEEELP ME #### NEED 20SU GAs FOR PARENTS! I JOE 634-1356 
############# 
WANTED: ND vs OHIO STATE TICKETS SEPTEMBER 28 WILL PAY$$$ CALL 314-770-2223 
PERSONAL 

Attention all LESBIAN, GAY, BISEX­UAL, or QUESTIONING students: the first support group meeting will be held TODAY at 7:30p.m. Everyone seeking or offering support for lesbian and gay issues should attend. Please call the Q-LINE at 236-9661 for the location. 
Congratulations New Irish Accent Members BELINDA ABER JOHN BARRY SARA BRANDON ROGELIO CARRASCO MIKE ENGLISH SCOTI GIULIANI MARTY HARRIS JOSH KIRLEY JEREMY SHARP Thanks to all who auditioned! 
FAX IT FASTIII Sending & Receiving at 
THE COPY SHOP LaFortune Student Center Our Fax# (219) 631-FAX1 
FAX IT FAST!!! 

Did someone run down Juniper naked any1ime recently? Where do ideas like that come from? 
Hey Adam Ortega-See above! 
Kevin Gaffney-See two above! 
Dave and Uitle Red ...just think real hard! 

StomperBob Tonight @ Dillion Hall Pep Rally on South Quad 
Random Quote­"Hey, is that your computor?" "Yeah" "Nice Unit." 

Want to climb volcanoes and explore deserts? STUDY IN CHILE!! mtg: 9/16 at 4:30 in 117 DeBartolo 
CRAZY?? DEMENTED?? WARPED???? WE WANT YOU!! Help plan AnTostal. first mtg: sun, 9/15 at 8 pm in the ND room of LaFun. 

Thursday, September 12, 1996 The Observer • SPORTS page 13 
• COLLEGE FOOTBALL 

Big East showcased on ESPN Rookie Jets' receiver 
By TOM CANAVAN 
Associated Press Writer 
PISCATAWAY, N.J. 

While help has bnen the last thing Miami has ever needed against Hutgers, the llurricarws can count on it Thursday night. 
After scoring 82 points the first two games of the season, No. 10 Miami (2-0) will be able to put a little more juice in its 
. ol"ffmsn by weleoming tailback I>anyell Ferguson and wide re­c:lliver Yatil Gmen to the lineup in thn nationally televised game. Ft~rguson, the Canes' leading rusher last season, and Green, the No. 2 rnc1~iver, were sus­pemh~d for two games by the NCAA for aceepting the use of a limousine for a night from a former Miami player. "It's been a real long wait," said Ferguson, who gained 1,069 yards last season. "It was real tough, but I felt a lit­tle better because we won." Miami eoaeh Butch Davis has refused to say whether he'll start Fnrguson and Green, but 
he really doesn't need them against Rutgers (1-1). 
The Scarlet Knights are re­building under new coach Terry Shea and the only thing that is working now is the de­fense, which played well last week in a 10-6 loss to Navy. 
Shea's offense has been pa­thetic, with three quarterbacks trying to make something hap­pen. Mike Stephans, a senior walk-on whose only previous start for Rutgers was at third base for the baseball team, gets the nod this week. 
"Obviously we would love to win," Stephans said. "You don't go out to play a game to try and look respectable. Nobody likes to get blown out. Nobody likes to lose. We want to go out and compete as best we can. 
"If we come out a loser, then we come out a loser," he added. "As long as we play hard and play the game we're supposed to play, it should be a good game." 
That hasn't been the case ever against Miami. 
Rutgers has played the 


Within walking distance ofND Campus! No nppointment ever needed! 

ho10e gaJDe 
:~peeials 
Must present coupon Expires 9-25-96 
one customer 
l month $29.00 
or 
20 session $39.00 
plus 
tan 'til 6-l-97 for only$169.00 

Hurricanes in each of the last three years and lost by mar­gins of31-17, 24-3 and 56-21. 
The blowout coming last year when the Scarlet Knights were fielding a team players thought was capable of earn­ing a bowl berth. Miami scored all its points in the first half, including 35 in the second quarter. 
Miami's Ryan Clement made his first start in that game and completed 6 of 13 passes for 157 yards and three touch­downs, including a 46-yarder to Fe.rguson and a 28-yarder 
to  Green.  Ferguson  also  
rushed  for  93  yards  and  
scored on a 1-yard run.  

''I'm not concerned about starting," Ferguson said. "It's not whether you start, it's whether you finish. I didn't start against Rutgers last year and I think I had two touch­downs and 170 all-purpose yards." 
Sophomore Dyral McMillan replaced Ferguson in wins over Memphis and the Citadel and rushed for 275 yards and two touchdowns. 
277-1166 
F Power Tan
t IMartin's I N 
For Summer Opportunities 
Turn in resumes no later than Sept. 17 for the following: 
GOODYEAR TIRE & RUBBER Co.­Chemical and Mechanical Engineering Majors 
PROCTER & GAMBLE MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS-Computer Applications, Math/Computer, Chemical Engineering Majors 
Turn in resumes no later than Sept. 24 for the following: 
3M COMPANY-Chemical, Electrical, Mechanical and Computer Engineering Majors 
MOTOROLA-Chemical and Electrical Engineering Majors 
Career & Placement Services Hesbergh Library, Lower Level 
gets the nod vs. Miami 
By BARRY WILNER 
Associated Press Writer 
HEMPSTEAD, N.Y. It's official, even if it doesn't matter much. 
Keyshawn Johnson, the top pick in the NFL draft, gets his first start Sunday when the New York Jets play at Miami. It's something Johnson cam­paigned for -loudly -a week ago, but when it was an­nounced Wednesday by coach Rich Kotite, Johnson said it was no big deal. 
"It's important that I'm on the field," the wide receiver from Southern California said. ''I'm ready for a very busy afternoon. 
"I came out and said that I want to play more. He granted me my wish and now it's my turn. When you talk the talk, you've got to walk the walk. 
"I don't think because I was named the starter, it will change things dramatically. I always expect to perform well." 
Johnson replaces second­year receiver Wayne Chrebet. Through two games, Chrebet leads the team with 11 recep­tions, nearly twice what any­one else has managed. He had 66 catches as a rookie free agent, and nearly every big play the Jets have had passing in their 0-2 start has involved Chrebet. 
Still, he's not blind. He knows what Johnson repre­sents. 
"We're friends, teammates, and he wants me to do well and I want him to do well," Chrebet said. "We root for each other when we're on the field. 
"I just try to keep plugging away and not worry. They in­vested a No. 1 pick in the whole draft and all that money, and they're going to use him." 
Johnson expressed his dis­pleasure with the way he was used after an opening 31-6 loss at Denver. He rarely played in the first half as the Broncos turned the game into a rout. 
In last Sunday's 21-7 loss to Indianapolis, Johnson didn't play the first series, then was on the field the rest of the way. He had five catches for 53 yards, including an 11-yard touchdown. 
"You've got to play to get better," he said. "You won't get better if you're sitting behind somebody. You get the experience you need out there, on the field. 
"All that worrying about starting is over and it's time to get a win." 
Kotite said he decided a week ago to start Johnson this week. And he emphasized that Chrebet's role will not be diminished. 
"He's ready to handle the whole thing," Kotite said of his prize rookie. "He's done as much as he can to be ready. It's time. 
"I expect Wayne to make the same kind of impact he did Sunday," added Kotite, refer­ring to Chrebet's nine catches for 93 yards. "He's a heck of a football player and will contin­ue to play an awful lot." 
While Chrebet is a strong short-yardage receiver with_ the ability to break some plays, Johnson is a game-breaker. He has the speed to get deep, the size to run the toughest routes and the athletic ability to make all kinds of catches. 
Oh, yes, he also has all kinds of confidence and enthusiasm. 

THE MULTI-LEVEL NITE CLUB OFFERING THE BEST IN OFF-CAMPUS FUN AND ENTERTAINMENT WHERE IF YOU DON'T LIKE WHAT'S ON ONE LEVEL YOU CAN GO PARTY ON THE NEXT LEVEL! 
-
_______________. 




page 14 The Observer • SPORTS Thursday, September 12, 1996 
• MAJOR lEAGUE BASEBAll 

Fielder returns to Tiger Town as a Yankee 
By HARRY ATKINS 
Associated Press Writer 
DETROIT 
It is late afternoon and long shadows begin to stretch across the outfield of Tiger Stadium. Cecil Fielder is in the center of a crush of mini cams, micro­phones and notepads. 
This is nothing unusual, except Fielder is wearing the visiting grays of New York. and standmg in front of the Yankees' dugout. 
This is Fielder's homecoming, his first game in Detroit since being traded to the Yankees for Ruben Sierra on July 31. And now there's a pennant to be won. 
The Baltimore Orioles, 10 games behind the Yankees at the time of the trade, have closed within 2 1/2 games of the AL East-leaders. In a few hours, Fielder's RBI grounder will drive in the winning run Tuesday night, allowing the Yankees to maintain that lead. 
"You have to understand that Baltimore wasn't going to playthe way they played tlie whole season," Fielder said. "They were going to come and start pla}'ing some good baseball. Up to this point you might figure we'd have played some better 
For those living in 
Your time is 
the fast lane, we present too precious to waste in bank
high-speed banking. 
we've got a pennant race. 

"I think tliat's what baseball's all about and we'll see what happens from this point out,." 
The new surroundmgs appear to suit Fielder. He nit .248 with 26 homers and 80 RBis in 107 games with the Tigers before the trade. He was hitting .254 with nine more homers and 23 RBls in 37 starts by the time the night was over. 

"I wouldn't say that I'm shocked, but I would think we'd be playing a little bit better," Fielder said. "Things justhaven't been working out for us. We went on a West Coast trip and that trip's tough for anyone. It was just a situation wtiere we weren't doing things properly and we were losinggames." 
Fielder suddenly breaks from the pack. The impromptu news conference is over. He has spot­ted Larry Herndon, the Tigers' hitting coach. Herndon was Fielder's go-to guru during most of Fielder's six-plus sea­sons with Detroit. 
The two meet behind the bat­ting cage. They embrace in a bear hug that might drive the air from lesser mortals. 
"You all right?" Herndon asks. 

saxs. ''I'm happ ." 
'That's good, XHerndon says. 
The two hug again, and Fielder moves off to join his teammates in stretching.Herndon, too, goes back to work. Tony Clark is the first baseman now. He is Herndon's latest project. 
"I've got a lot of friends here, no doubt," Fielder says. "I think that's one thing, being in New York, you miss more than anything." 
Fielder i~ greeted mostly by 
-----· lines. That's why 
KeyBank has so many ways to speed 
up your banking. Like automatic bill 
paying. Phone banking. And enough 
ATMs to keep you from having to see the 
ATM on the Notre Dame campns at 
thejoyce Center (Gate 10). For more 
time-saving ideas, enter our phone 
number, l-800-539-2968. Preferably, 
_

•·-----------~~r·=
~~~~~ 

ATTENTION JUNIORS! 
Class Rings 
now available for pickup 
in the Class Ring Office at the Bookstore 
-
starting Tuesday, September 9 HOURS: MON -FRI 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. 
comesee ­
one of.the best college ··~­bands in th: midwest... in 
Alumni • Senior Club •· 
FRIDAY SEPTEMBER 13 
start the football season off right ... 


USAF HEALTH PROFESSIONS TOLL FREE 1-800-423-USAF 
.:ii~ :...
..... = 

cheers and only a smattering of boos when he comes to the plate in the first inning.Somehow, he looks thinner. Maybe it's because the beard is gone. Still, he looks familiar in that crouch, rocking and wav­ing that big, black bat. 
It is unanimous cheering after Todd Van Poppe! strikes him out swinging. The fans, all 11,042 of them, roundly boo Fielder in his next three at-bats. 
"It's going to be like any other game, but maybe a little differ­ent because this is TigerStadium," Fielder said. "But at this point I've gotten J?rettycomfortable being here With the Yankees." 
The break is clean. The Tigers have become comfort­able without him, too. 
"Of course we miss him," manager Buddy Bell said. "He is a wonderful human being.But he is an athlete. It was onlynatural he wanted a chance to compete for a championship." , 
<
0 
I: 
.. 
Ill 
0 
<... 
.. 
-· 
CD 
:1 
a. 

.: 


g;ather ~[[o! and cnr. ~than <Hatch 
--~~~iii 

--~ 
~~~ invite a[[ students, facu[t! and their 
fami[ies to the C()otive ~ss of the <lfo[! Spirit 
SEPTEMBER 22, 4:00 PM_ AT THE JOYCE CENTER WITH DINNER TO FOLLOW 
Students andfacu[t! wi[[ &e seated toaetfter ~ acad .. · artment at tfte 

' 
) 


-
UNIVI:RsrrY 01~ NoTRI: DAME Sn JDENT Govi:RNMENT 



~-------~p~ag~<_1_6 T~h~e~O~b=se~IT~e~r-_~~S~P~()=·~R~T~S=-__________________________T_h_u_rs_d~ay~,_S~ep~t-'~--b~-r~1~2_,_1_9-9~6---­
! ...._ • MAJOR lEAGUE BASEBAll 
I Bonds mouths off 
I 
after ll,UrnJng Cards 
-...;; $' .... 
Aasociat«l Prtl$!l Writer 


SAN FRANSICO 
After hitting a two-run homer in the first inning, Barry Bonds was surprised he got a chance to do it again. 
Bonds hit his second two-run blast in the eighth., giving San Francisco a 4-2 victory over St. Louis on Wednesday. 
"If you keep playing with fire, you'll get burned," Bonds said of Cardinal manager Tony La Russa's decision to pitch to him. "His ego is too big. Sometimes you can't beat the laws of physics. I didn't thillk. he was going to pitch to me." · 
With Bill Mueller at rll'St after a leadoff walk in a tie game, Bonds bit a full-count pitch off Alan Benes {13-9) just over the right field fence for his 39th homer of the season. 
La Russa initially didn't want to discuss Bonds after the game. But he changed his mind after being told that Bonds complained that Willie McGee and Royce Clayton -former teammates of his now with the Cardinals-wouldn't talk to him because La Russa "must have a rule against talking with guys on other teams." 
"He must be good enough to play left field and manager our club? He's not that good," La Russa said. " Maybe he's em­barrassed because we won two out of three and he didn"t win three games all by himself." 
San Francisco broke a five­game losing streak and handed the Cardinals just their second loss in 12 games. St. Louis' lead in the NL Central dropped to two games over Houston, which played Philadelphia on Wednesday night. 
Tim Scott (5-7), the third o four Giants pitchers. got the win, and Rod Beck pitched the ninth for his 33rd save. Ozzie Smith, in his last appearance in San Francisco if be follows through on his announced re­tirement. got a standing ova­tion before he lined out to left field for the imal out. 
Bonds waved for Smith to join him in center field after the last out, and Smith obliged. The two exchanged hugs. 
"Barry and I have played in a lot of All-Star games together. and we just have a special rela­tionship,'• Smith said. ·•ue's an incredible player." 
Mueller singled and scored on Bonds' rirst home run, giv­ing the Giants a 2-0 lead in the first. 
The Cardinals closed to 2-1 in the fifth when Tom Pagnozzi walked, went to third on Luis Alicea's double and scored on Jackson's single. 
Alicea was erased at the plate on Smith's grounder to pitcher Osvaldo Fernandez. Ray Lankford then singled, but shortstop Rich Aurilia took a relay from Bonds and threw out Jackson trying to score to preserve the 2-1lead. 
The Cardinals tied the game 2-2 in the sixth on singles by Mark Sweeney, Gary Gaetti and Tom Pagnozzi. 
Jackson, making his second start of the season, gave up two runs and four hits in five in-
By JOHN NADEL 
Associated Press Writer 

LOS ANGELES 
Having made a triumphant return from cancer, Brett Butler-one of baseball's best bunters-broke his hand while bunting in what could have been the final at-bat of his ca­reer. 
Almost certainly, it was his last plate appearance of this season. 
Butler broke the fifth metacarpal in his left hand in the fourth inning of a S-4 vic­tory by the Los AngelesDodgers over the Cincinnati Reds on Tuesday night. 
"When I went out his hand w.as turning blue," Dodgers manager Bill Russell said. "He got hit pretty good. You knew it was bad. I knew he was going to come out once I saw it." 
Four days earlier, Butler re­joined the Dodger lineupfollowing more than four months on the sidelines be­cause of a cancerous tonsil. 
There was no immediate word on how long Butler will be out this time, but Russell said it's "highly unlikely" the center fielder will play againthis year. 
Butler, 39, recently told friends and several teammates he will retire after this season. Of course, that could change now. He has shown that once be puts his mind to something, most anything is possible. He went through two operationsand 32 radiation treatments before coming back. 
"You hear bim mention God doing a miracle here," Russell said. "There's probably some mixed emotions. He might be asking, 'Is He trying to tell me sometbing again here?' 
"Hopefully, he'll be sitting next to me on the bench." 
Butler squared around to bunt and Giovanni Carrara's inside pitch hit him on his throwing hand. It was ruled a foul ball by plate umpire Bill Hohn because Butler's hand was on the bat when it was 
EXPRESS 
The place to go for ALL your NOTRE DAME sportswear & accessories! 
LaFortune Student Center (219)631-8128 
IRISH  Friday  12 • 9 pm  
EXPRESS  Saturday  8am· 9pm  
HOURS  Sunday  9am -3 pm  

We accept VISA, MasterCard and Discover 
Butler's return short-lived 
struck. 

Reds outfielder Eric Davis, who was a teammate of Butler's with the Dodgers in 1992-93, cringed when he heard about the severity of the 
in~ury.

'He's been blessed that he's healthy now, and that's the key," Davis said. "He was able to overcome some tremendous odds, so the fact that he's only played in five games is not a ne~ative thing.
' In my eyes, he's won. Even if he came back and played one game, he still won. But on the downside, he's an inspira­tion to their ballclub and youhate to see a guy go down like that." 
Entering Wednesday night's game against the Reds, the Dodgers were tied for first place in the NL West with San. Diego and had 18 games re­maining in the season, which ends Sept. 29. 
"Obviously, it's devastating to us," rookie Dodgers out­fielder Todd Hollandsworth said. "It's hard to lose him again like we did before. You hate to see it happen after what Brett's been through." 
Butler entered this season with 280 career bunt hits. His career-high is 41 in 1992. He became the first NL player to lead the league in singles four straight seasons (1990-93). 
He hit a run-scoring single in the second inning Tuesdaynight for his first RBI since re­turning to the lineup. It was in his next at-bat when disaster struck. 
"We talked a long time today before the game," said Dodgers second baseman Delino DeShields, in the midst of a slump that has dropped his batting average below .225. "He was doing most of the talking, actually, he was just telling me to keep myhead up. 
f"' Cl~El-Jl=~\ AT~E Sa~ffE 
presented by Notre Dame Communication and Theatre 
631·7361 


JJA 9+. 1lAHE'Is AWoNDruULfiL.\1~ 
FRIDAY SEPT. 13 and SATURDAY SEPT. 14 
7:30 and 9:30 PM http://www.nd.edu/-cothweb/wwwsnite.html 
Looking for fmancial assistance for college? Exploring your job after graduation?Always wanted to be a pilot, but thought didn't qualify? Ifyou answered YES to any of these questions, contact the ND ROTC Team at 631-4676 to get the facts. You might be surprised! 
Thursday, September 12, 1996 The Observer • SPORTS page 17 
-
• DEEP THREAT 
Football 
continued from page 20 
can get the ball moving more easily and that Hon can get rid of it more quickly." 
Will passing remain as large a part of the oiTense throughout the season as it was against Vandy? 
"I hope not, but we will prob­ably have to (keep passingas mueh)," said Holtz. "We'll do what we have to do to win, and it seemed to work last week (against Vanderbilt)." 
When word that Holtz and Hoberts planned to incorporate many of the ideas from the FSU game into this season's play­bonk, eritics immediately won­dernd where Powlus was going to throw the ball. 
The graduation of Derrick Mayes after last season seemed to take all the steam out of a receiving corps that was already considered mediocre at best. Without him, the remain­ing wideouts were expected to be the weak link of the Irish offense. In fact, the coaches even moved tailback Autry Denson to flanker just two weeks before the season start­ed in order to shore up the position. 
However, even though Randy Kinder's subsequent injury necessitated Denson's move back to tailback, the receivers showed on Thursday that they are bound to prove the naysay­ers wrong. 
Senior Emmett Mosley and junior Malcolm Johnson, this weekend's starters against Purdue, combined for 10 recep­tions for 124 yards. 
"Malcolm did a nice job {against Vanderbilt), and so did Emmett," said Roberts. "I can't think of a game last year that that {10 catches by 2 receivers) happened. It helps their confi­dence, and it helps Ron's confi-


WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 18 
2:00 and 7:00 P.M. 
Greta Garbo stars in 
Anna 
$1 Students UTILE THEATRE 


Notre Dame-St. Mary's 
GYMIAS,.ICS CLUB 
7st practice FRI., Sept. 73, 4-6 pm Angela Athletic Facility-St. Mary's 

NO EXPERIENCE NECESSARY Both Boys and Girls Welcome Must Bring INSURANCE INFO to participate 
Chinese -American Restaurant and Cocktail Lounge 

... 
Lunches starting at ....$4.25 Dinners starting at ....$5.95 Banquet rooms available up to 200 

GREAT \VALL 
Bar and Restaurant open 7 days a week 130 Dixie Way N., South Bend (next to Randall's Inn) 

dence in them. It means we don't have to rely on the tight end as much. We can spread it around." 
Powlus agreed wholehearted­ly with Roberts' assessment. 
"Our receivers are working hard, doing the best to play to the best of their abilities," stat­ed Powlus. "They're starting to do their job. They're going to be just fine." 
The one glaring weakness on the offensive side of the ball, however, still remains at the receiver position. Although they have proven that they are capable of playing well in pres­sure situations, as shown in the game-winning drive on Thursday, not one of them can be considered a legitimate deep threat. This lack of a downfield passing game was evident from the Vandy game, ~n which the longest pass completion was a 23-yard screen pass. 
Still, Holtz and Roberts are not worried. Quick screens and crossing routes, combined with the always-steady running game, will more than make up for this disparity. 
"We don't have a deep threat, not unless we can disguise someone in the other team's uniform," joked Holtz. "But that doesn't mean we can't be a solid team." 
Roberts agreed. "I don't think a good team has to have a 
4.4 (in the 40) receiver to be dangerous. We don't have a 
4.4 receiver, and I'm not sure if we even have a 4.5. But you know what? Michael Irvin only runs a 4.68." 
Holtz will never turn his back on the beloved rushing game, but he knows the strengths of the 1996 Irish football team. In order to win, he will exploit those strengths to the fullest extent possible. Ron Powlus is not an option quarterback, and he never will be. However, he now possesses the system and the personnel that should allow 
University ofNotre Dame International Study Program in 

Toledo, Spain 
Information Meeting With Professor Olivia R. Constable 
Thursday, September 12, 1996 4=3o p.m. 223 Hayes Healy 
Returning Students will be on hand to answer questions 
him and this team to flourish in 1996. 
NOTES: Coach Holtz on Wednesday announced that sophomore Jerry Wisne would start at left guard on Saturday. Also, Holtz said junior Ty Goode will be the nickel back, sophomore Shannon Stephens will be tried at receiver for a while, and freshman QB Eric Chappel will be looked at as safety for now. 
• SPORTS BRIEFS 
Volleyball Tournament• RecSports will be sponsering a one night tournament on September 19 at Stepan Courts. For more information, contact RecSports by Wednesday, September 18. 
Field Hockey-Anyone inter· ested in field hockey, meet at the field across from Stepan Center, Thursday , September 12 at 6 p.m. Call Chrissy Shannon at 273-2580 or Megan Kennedy at 243-9476 with questions. 
Challenge U Fitness· Some classes are still open. Please call RecSports for details.· If you are not able to attnd for any reason, please contact the RecSports office so that we may give the spot to someone else, 
Blood Pressure & Body Composition· Testing will be done on Thursday, Spetember 12, from 11:30 • 1 p.m., in the Foster Room, LaFortune. Il you cannot get there, contact Jennie Philips at 4-5965 to set up. 
Official Needed-RecSports needs official for flag football, soccer and baseball. These are paid positions. Stop by RecSports and fill out an application. If you have any questions call RecSports 1­6100. 
Find out more about the Sacrement of 
~tirmat;,
(JO ()~ 
Are you a baptized Catholic who has never been Confirmed? 
Would you like to prepare for Confirmation with other Notre Dame Students? 
It's a wonderful opportunity to learn and talk about your faith and meet new friends! 
For more information call Darrell Paulsen at 631-5242 or stop by the Badin Campus Ministry office 

(3MPUSMINISTRY 

-
Soccer 
continued from page 20 
to be working very well. They are going to try to limit the opponents attacking chances in these next few games. They have managed to work out the kinks, and now they are look­ing to avert their attention to their offense. The Irish had numerous opportunities to put the ball in the net in the Wisconsin and the Washington games but just could not fin­ish. Petrucelli felt that this would be the main focus for his squad tommorrow. 

"We are going to refine our attack," said Petrucelli. "We want to make ourselves more dangerous and finish off our scoring opportunities." 
The Irish will work on their offense tommorrow against the Michigan State Spartans in East Lansing at 4 p.m. 
Please Recycle The Observer 
Appearing LIVE at the 
1MI.&JD)JI~(Q)N (Q)'lf~JrJEIIR IB3.&TIR 
402 EAST MADISON SOUTH BEND, IN (219) 288-3776 
Fri., September 13 & Sat., September 14: South Side Denny Blues 
hours: Mon-Sat 3:00p.m.-3:00a.m. 
HALF PRICE COVER WITH STUDENT ID Friday: $.50 Oysters $.50 Shrimp EXCELLENT FOOD tilll a.m. Thurs., Fri., Sat. 
WEDNESDAYS: open mic jam THURSDAYS: reggae FRIDAYS: blues SATURDAYS: --~ classic rock-alternative ·retro national and regional acts 

------~---------­
Thursday, September 12, 1996 

• MAJOR lEAGUE BASEBAll 
Indians persevere 
By KEN BERGER 
Associated Press Writer 
CLEVELAND 

Manny Ramirez stood and admired his game-ending home run, then started round­ing the bases, the numbers of traded teammates Eddie Murray and Carlos Baerga etched on his cap. 
This might be remembered as the comeback that separat­ed the "new" Indians from the "old" ones. 
It has been a season of tur­moil for the defending AL champions, from distractions involving Albert Belle's behav­ior to the trades of Baerga and Murray, who were so instru­mental in last year's champi­onship and so popular in the clubhouse. 
Ramirez, a tremendous tal­ent at only 24, was one of the players most upset by the departure of his mentors. Ramirez is quiet, but his demeanor said it all. Baerga's No. 9 and Murray's No. 33 have been written in chalky white on his blue Indians cap all summer. 
He even wears the cap beneath his batting helmet when he hits.­
Ramirez hit a two-out, three­run homer off Troy Percival on Tuesday night as the Indians scored four times in the bottom of the ninth to beat the California Angels 7-5. The team gathered at home plate and Jacobs Field erupted in cheers -just like last year, when Cleveland won 27 times in its last at-bat. 
"Last year, comebacks were almost commonplace," man­ager Mike Hargrove said. "But this one is special. Teams are aware that we have this abil­ity." 


Help Lou and the Irish strike fear into the hearts of the Boilermakers by wearing "The Shirt '96". Stand up, show our unity, show our pride. Wear "The Shirt '96" Notre Dame will win over all! 
ON SALE NOW at the Bookstore, LaFortune Information Desk, and Varsity Shop. 
STUDENTS! Get $4 off "The Shirt '95" with coupon included with your student football tickets. 

Thursday, September 12, 1996 The Observer • TODAY page 19 
MIXED MEDIA JACK OHMAN YOUR HOROSCOPE JEANE DIXON 
-
01996 Tribune Media Services, Inc. All R1ghts Reserved. 
BERMUDA 
TRIANGLE .•• 

----~---­
·~c::: ~-.:--------i.:---1!---­
..----------.. --­
......... 9/12 
MIKE PETERS 

SCOTT ADAMS 
r-------------------------ur------------------------­
2 
o HEE. HEE! ALL '<OU H!\D 
~ TO DO W!\5 STICK. THE 
i PENCIL IN THE DONUT. 
~ 
c 
8 ~ 
32 Bambi's aunt 34 TV marine 35 Words with a 
ring to them? 37 So inclined 38 Local 
government position 39 Stationery 
purchase 42 Grads-to-be 43 Dishwasher 
listings 44 Former Albany first family 
> 

WE JUST
~ 

BROKE All
~ 

KINDS OF
~ 

UNION
! 
w 
~ 
~ 
• 
u. 

45 Where the Pal me d'Or is awarded 
47 Parlor pieces so Small 51 Old-time actor 
Jack 

Answers to any three clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420-5656 (75ft per minute). 
Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: (800) 762-1665. 
BUT HEY! LOOK 1\T THE. 
SH!\DOW FRO~'\ THE PENCIL! 
55 Ready to eat 56 Ugandan exile 57 Brand name that 
happens to be 
Latin for "I read" 
&1 Actress Merkel 
&2 Latin foot 
o.-a.~,......., 
MOTHER GOOSE & GRIMM 
DILBERT 
TEI\MBUILDINC. D.ERCISE 
IT'S 1-\0PELE.SS! YOU'RE 
LOSERS! WE'Ll NEVER 
MAKE A 5UNDIAL OUT 
UAI'I'\' IIIRTII()A \'! IN TilE NEXT YJ<:AR OF YOUR LIFE: A foriner employer or partner could 'end some business your way. Show your appreciation. Family support plays an important role in your plans. Be careful not to burn any bridges. Greater subtlety will con· vmce key allies to do your bidding. The management of jointly owned funds could receive new attention early in 1997. Travel for both busi­ness and pleasure as next summer approaches. A business panner's ill­decision could a fleet your finances. 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: actress Linda Gray. singer Barry White. Olympic legend Jesse Owens. singer Maria Muldaur. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): f'riends at a tlistance help you explore new areas of interest. P;u·t· ners offer suggestions for solving a career or financial problem. Better communication will lead to greater domestic harmony. 
TAURUS <Arril 20-May 20): Career success comes when you align yourself with like-minded peo­ple. Actions speak louder than word~. A from-the-heart explanation will remove doubt and promote unity. 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Review your financial needs and evaluate your earning potential. Taking a men10r's sage advice could make money worries a thing of the rast. A friend needs a special favor. 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): A difference in rhilosophy could com­plicate a business partnership. Di­vide the work load more equitably. An athletic contest will leave you feeling exhilarated. 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Work· ing through your doubts or fears will banish them forever. A romantic partner's behavior could he trying 


ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
,lffill!tAtl~fiiQ!Y:W~f!~
II ~~~:!:!. ~i.looOiool-"~~.!.l 
1""111""111-=-1~~ 

R-=-f=-f:..!..f-'=-l 22 Most nigh ~~~""""loooi.l 23 Panama, e.g. ~.!.4-=-J.:...:..j.=-i.itioloiiiit=-1-'~::iiir::=-t"!~.. 24 Letter before beth ~~~i-!-!.;~ 26 Connecticut 
River city 
~8888 28 Economical 
.=l!.!.JL.::..JL.::..JL.:..:.J 29 Faction 
59 Scrape (out) 60 "Sorry to cut you 
off," in D.C. &3 Classified abbr. 64 Parasite's egg 65 Undistinguished 
follower 68 Snake sound 67 U.S.N. petty 
officer 68 Mantilla wearers 
DOWN 
1 Diary 2Copy 3 Storekeeper 4Asto 5 Busy & Means --end 7 Small serving of 
coffee a Site of a Gen. McClellan victory 
90pen. as oysters 10 "Three Tall 
Women" writer 11 Cello maestro 
12 Proceeds sans 
parental consent 13 Releases 

• OF INTEREST Post-Graduate Service Opportunities will be dis· cussed tonight from 5-6 p.m. at the CSC. Come learn about the resources. application process and the expe­rience of previous volunteers. Democracy, Neocolony, or Ghetto? Ken Jowitt will be speaking on democracy and development Friday, September 13 at 2:30p.m. in C·103 Hesburgh Center for International Studies. Wonder what those monks are all about? Single, Catholic women, ages 20-40, are invited to attend a Benedictine Life Weekend Octobf)r 11·13 at the Monastery Immaculate Conception in Ferdinand, Ind. 
To register and get more info, call Sister Rose Mary Rexing at 800-738-9999, or e-mail osbnuns@psci.net. 
•MENU 

Notre Dame NORTH SOUTH Veal Parmigiana Pork Loin wlth Apples 
Broccoli Stir-Fry Grilled Enchiladas Tomato Soup Cheese Enchiadas 
Saint Mary's Shrimp Egg Rolls Green Pepper Steak 
Wanted: Reporters, photographers and editors. Join The Observer staff. 
your palll'lll:l' Stanl.i yolll ground II :--omcone lrJl'S to lean on you. 
VJIH;O t Aug ~~-Sept 22): A new u1vestment "tnllt!gy i~ advl'..ed lm.ide mlormaiHm rmt~ you 111 the dnllCr's scat Rt•altt.e that spea~mg out at work t'lllatb certaill risks. A promto.;e you makr a romantil' pan­ncr may he hard tolultill. 
LIBRA (Sept. D-Oct. 22): You Call expect to gain new fnemls and intluencc now. Tcndmg to neglected btlls and joint holdtngs will halt a worrying trend. Launchmg a project will go quicker if you do it on your 
own. 
SCORPIO <Oct B-Nov. 21 ): A bold move persuades someone to 1oin your team. Others decide 10 stgn on the dotted line. A friend from your rast could turn up on your doorstep this weekend. 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dcc. 21 ): Changes at work gtvc you fresh hope. Your ulldcrstanding of some· one's situatton wins their hean. Can­cel elaborate social plans m favor of low-key cntenamment at home. 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Take a systematic approach to accumulating savings. Making 100 many horne 1111provements at one time could kavc a tllg dent m your budget. Your love It fe becomes more rewarding when you put your mate's needs first. 
AQllARiliS (Jan 20-Feb. 18): A desire to further your education grows stronger. You benefit from talking frankly with your parents or sibltngs. Long-distance phone calls could rekindle a long ago romance. 
PISCES !Feb 19-March 20): An appmntment with a doctor could relteve your fear~. Combine busi­ness travel with pleasure. Give in to your loved one~· wishes. A confer· ence will go hctter than antictpated. 
OF A PENCIL 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 1 Cow catchers a --rule 11 Disney frame 14 Convertible 15 W.H.A. absorber 1& Pig &Whistle order 11 "Wake up!" in Teheran 18 Slow boat 19 Tippler 20 John Hancock rival 21 Mars sightings 23 Japanese "yes" 25 "Step on it!" in Jerusalem 27"--well!" 29 Exhausted 30 --buco 
AND AN 
31 Home of the brave 33 Deep-blue mineral 
36 "Candidly, Scarlett," in Paris 
40Gear computation 41 Sports stats 43 Fourth-century date 46 Tropical fruit 48 Nicholas I or II 49 "Put money on 
it?" in Beijing 52 Watering place near Koblenz 
53 Solidify 
54 Mt. Narodnaya locale 
sa Alphabet chain 

-
SPORTS 
page 20
, 
• fOOTBAlL 

It's Blarney time for new-look Irish offense 
TIM MCCONN {Blarney is a possibility), these Sports Writer significant developments do have a history behind them. 
Smashmouth football. The "It all began last year in the option. Staples of Notre Dame Orange Bowl against Florida football under head coach Lou State," stated offensive coordi­Holtz. nator Dave Roberts. "We tried 
That is, until now. to spread it (the ball) out more. 

Passing has now become an We found some things we real­official part of the offensive ly liked." scheme for the Irish, and will What they really liked were play a larger role this season the spread formations and the than in any other in recent short. precise routes the years. receivers were able to run so 
Take last Thursday's season­effectively against the opener against Vanderbilt. Seminoles, not to mention the Quarterback Ron Powlus quick manner in which former attempted 32 passes, and 20 of quarterback Thomas Krug was those came in the first half able to get rid of the ball. The alone. The tight end, fifth-year FSU defense was on its heels senior Pete Chryplewicz (3 re­throughout the game, never ceptions), and the fullback, knowing what the Irish would senior Marc Edwards (4 recep­do. tions), were not just last Roberts acknowledges that resorts, but were primary tar­the new wrinkle was imple­gets. Only two option plays mented due in most part to the were called. All in all, Notre skills of one person: Powlus. Dame gained almost as many His quick release, strong arm, yards passing the ball (216) as and high intelligence have they did rushing (218). always impressed the coaches. 
Despite these telling statis­This season, they decided that tics, rumors of head coach Lou to utilize these skills in a way Holtz's conversion to the Bill that would be most beneficial Walsh school of football are to the team. greatly exagerrated. "We like to take advantage of 
"I don't think we qualify as a his gifts," noted Roberts. "This West Coast offense," claimed offense has evolved into some­Holtz. "I don't know what to thing that fits him. We feel we call us." 
Regardless of the name 
see FOOTBALL I page17 

• SMC VOllEYBAll • WOMEN'S SOCCER 
Offense-minded Belles Injured Irish face Spartans 
KATHLEEN LOPEZ could give us some trouble." questionable for the game. She
travel to Ohio tourney 

Sports Writer As for the Irish, their starting has a broken toe. Freshman line-up is still a bit foggy. The Kara Brown is probable,
By KELLY GLYNN to a loss in the third game. 

key to the Irish defense, fresh­depending on whether or not Sports Writer However, the Belles were not This weekend the women's man Jen Grubb, will assume there is a risk of her reopening
about to let victory slip 

soccer team is looking to recov­her position at sweeper. Grubb her cut. Brown split open her through their fingers. er. The Irish played some went down in the Washington forehead in the game against The young guns of Saint Melissa Miller stepped in tough games this past weekend game in what appeared to be a Wisconsin, and recieved stiches Mary's volleyball team at the end of game three to against the Washington serious injury to her ankle. She over her eye. If Brown does returned home to South Bend improve team passing and Huskies and the Wisconsin only slightly turned it and is not start expect sophomore a Badgers, and in the process of expected to play the entire Laura Vanderberg to fill in for
Tuesday night with yet anoth­lead the Belles to fourth gaining their victories they sus­game. her.

er victory under their belts. game and final victory of 15­tained some threatening Sophomore Monica Gerardo The team's main focus thusThis win against North Park 12,15-11,7-15,15-6. 

injuries. is questionable for the game. far into the season has beenCollege gives the Belles a Jane Ozbolt led her team in The starting lineup was in She too, turned her ankle in the their defense, which has provenrecord of 8-2. total scoring with 14 points serious jeopardy with one third Washington game. Another 
After losing captains Laura and 2 aces, while team cap­to the starters ailing of injured. sophomore, Shannon Boxx, is see SOCCER I page 18 Schreeg and Kelly Meyer to tain Meg Kelly dominated on The outlook is promising for demanding class schedules, the outside with 12 kills and the Irish because some of the the team headed for Chicago 19 digs. girls are back and ready to play under the leadership of newly "We'll go a little back to against the Michigan State 
Spartans today. The Irish head 
appointed tri-captains, Betsy the basics," coach Schroeder­

to Michigan to play an underat­
·-
Connoly, Meg Kelly, and Biek commented. 
ed Spartan team. 
Courtney Love. "We're not anticipating or 

Last year Michgan State fin­
Following the first place positioning ourselves very 

ished sixth in the Big Ten con­
tournament win last weekend, well." 

ference. The Spartans are 
the Belles expected a win in This week, the Belles will 

returning seven to their start­Chicago. practice serve reception, ing lineup. The Irish are not 
"We didn't come out in court movement and position­underestimating the Spartan's control," freshman Courtney ing in hopes of perfecting power, because they narrowly Love commented. their performance in this dismissed the Spartans 3-0, last 
year.
Love and fellow freshman weekend's tournament at 

"Their mentality is the
Katie Candiano agreed that Ohio Northern. They should 

strongest part of their game,"
the team played great offense face some of this season's 

said head coach Chris
but their poor serve reception toughest competition at the 

Petrucelli about the Spartans. 
The Observer/Mike Ruma
and court communication led tournament. 

"They are a physical team that Forward Jenny Streiffer is emerging as one of the top Irish freshman. 


vs. Purdue Saturday, 1 p.m. 
~-~ 
vs. Michigan St. Tonight, 7:30p.m. 
vs. West Virginia 
Friday; 7:30p.m.
(..,:., 

I -­
at Penn State 
aJ

@) Friday, 8:30p.m. •Butler out of the lineup again at Ohio State ~ Friday ~ see page 16 
Volleyball at ONU
S¢h ••riJ •Fielder returns to Detroit
i Friday, 3:15p.m. see page 14 
~ 







