
Wednesday, February 21, 1996• Vol. XXVII No. 94 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 

Pump it up! 
Kevin Sanger takes a study break to do some reps at the Rock. 

Government to visit ND fair 
Career Day hosts federal, state agencies 
By JAMIE HEISLER Assistant News Editor 
·Have you ever wanted to work for the FBI? The U.S. House of Representatives? The 
U.S. Secret Service? Representatives from these and 27 other federal, state, and local gov­ernment agencies will be present at a Government Career Day on Thursday at the Center for Goebel Continuing Education from 12-4 p.m. 

The Career Day, held only ev­ery other year, is sponsored by Career and Placement Services and brings representatives to campus to offer career, intern­ship and special program in­formation. 
"We have 60 representatives coming from 30 agencies to share different opportunities for careers and how to go about getting jobs. They are agreeing to act as resource people for the students." said Judy Goebel, ca­reer counselor for Career and Placement Services. 
Although the event offers op­portunities in government ca­reers alone, it is open to stu­dents at all levels and in all majors. 
"Agencies are looking for peo­ple with a variety of back­grounds, not just for gov­ernment and liberal arts ma­jors. Agencies also need people with technical, business. and science backgrounds," Goebel said. "Bilingual skills are con­sidered a plus by some agen­cies. Others may stress strong skills in investigative, written! verbal communication, or quan­titative areas." 
According to Goebel. it is im­portant that students from all levels participate in the Career Day because it does not take place every year; this opportu­nity will not be available next year. 
Although the University would like it to, the Career Day does not take place annually because the agency representatives are not available often. 
"It's hard to get them here. Bceause the government is in a downsizing mode, the agrmeies do not always have the budget to eome," Goebel said. 
Students from all levels can also benefit beeause many of the agencies are also offering summer internships and speeial programs in addition to the career opportunities. 
Many of the deadlines for these have already passed, ac­cording to Goebel, so it is too late for seniors to take advan­tage of them. However, other students ean benefit by applying for the internships next year. 
The Government Career Day is just one of the many events that Career and Placement Services offers for students. Other events have inclutled Sei­ence Plaeement Night, Arts and Letters Placement Night and Engineering Plaeement Night. 
According to Goebel, while the University offers these op­portunities, it is up to the stu­dent to take advantage of them. "We don't track students who come to the fair. It's up to the student how they approach this," she said. 
SMC: What's in a grade? 
Students, faculty discuss importance of college GPA 
By MAUREEN HURLEY S.tint M.try\ News Editor 

Tlw Pnd of Dncember was a tense 
tirno filr many students, as they waited 
by the mailbox for that confidential 
nnvelope with the Saint Mary's return 
address. 
Semnster gradfl mports. 

Last night, students and faculty dis­russed the irnportancfl attached to grados in a forum ontitled "Grade Expectations," sponsored hy the lead­orship devdopment commiltne. 
The relationship between success and gradns. the importance of the GPA after graduation and balancing extra­eurrieular activities with academies were the three major topics discussed. 
Linda Timm, vice president of Student Affairs. summed up the discus­sion best as she stated students must maintain "balance and perspective" with respect to grades. 
"Focusing only on grades can affect aehievement. Students need to put things in perspective," said Susan Vanek, freshman academic counselor. "Grades are the means to an end, not the end. They shouldn't interfere with your education." 
Career counselors stress a growing trend in leadership skills being the prime quality for which employers seareh. 
"Grades are an important part of it, but the main thing they [potential employers) are looking for is leader­ship skills," said Christine Derwent. coordinator of career services. 
Along with concern about transcripts being viewed by employers, students also cite finaneial aid as a prime worry with grade standards, according to Financial Aid Director Mary Nucciarone. 
"There's a misconception that stu­dents think that all financial aid is con­tingent upon grades." Nucciarone said. "The majority of assistance is based on financial aid. Higher CPA's are 
see GRADES I page 4 

Obenga defines harmony 
By DEREK BETCHER News Writer 
As part of an ongoing celebration of Black History Month, Dr. Theophile Obenga. a native of Brazzaville. Congo spoke yesterday about African philoso­phy. A professor in the Department of African-American studies at Temple University, Obenga offered insight on the fundamental idea of Maat, a con­cept lying at the root of African thought and culture. 
"Every eivilization has a key word and concept. For Eastern cultures, it is yin and yang, for the Greeks it was logos, and for Africans, it is Maat," Obenga began. 
"If you don't know Maat. you don't know ancient civilizations," Obenga later said. 
"Maat is an ancient Egyptian word meaning harmony. balance, order, jus­tice and much more. It is symbolized by a feather, or by the icon of a woman, a goddess," Obenga said. 
Using comparisons to its Western counterpart. Obenga illustrated the 
see OBENGA I page 6 



ND students boast youth program in nation's capital 
By J.P. COONEY 
News Writer 
Not often does a Notre Dame student get to address a room packed with 500 people from 
171 colleges aeross the eountry, including two 
U.S. senators and four U.S. c:ongrnssman. But that is exactly what 

St. l·:dward's Roemer llall senior Isaac Duncan and Farley llall junior Krista Zimmerman did 
this past wnekend when they 
traveled to thn nation's capital to speak about their experi­enees in the NCAA's National Youth Sports Program. 

Sponsored by the NCAA, NYSP is a five-week program educating and encouraging community children between the ages of ten and 16. Approx­imately 300 children from the South Bend and Mishawaka area participated in the camp which utilized University ath­letic and classroom facilities, eomputers and other eduea­tional technology. Notre Dame has participated in the 28-year old program for the past five years. 
"This is a great opportunity for the kids in this community," said Jim Hoerner, University di­rector of Community Relations, who oversees NYSP at Notre Dame. "If it weren't for this program these kids would be out on the street during the hot month of July being exposed to several bad temptations with­out any supervision. That is where all the problems with drugs and violence originate." 
This past summer, 17 Notre Dame students, including Dun­can and Zimmerman. partici­pated in the program as camp coordinators. They received $1200 in college tuition credit and free room and board for the duration of the program. They participated in directed readings and wrote a research paper to receive college credit, while living on the campus of Notre Dame. the only univer­sity which incorporates the res­idential and course eredit aspects into the program. 
"To my knowledge, this is a unique partnership," said Ed­ward Thiebe the director of NCAA youth programs and head of NYSP throughout the nation. "Notre Dame has de­voted considerable resources toward this component of the program." 
"It was a valuable experi­ence," said Duncan, who is planning a career in secondary education. "I was responsible for 20 kids this summer, and it forced me to take charge. Most of the kids I dealt with were on their way into high school, giv­ing me a picture of what they were dealing with before they got there." 
Zimmerman, who is planning a career in mathematics eduea­tion, agreed with Duncan. "It was really valuable job training but it was also a rewarding ex­perience," she said. "Earlier this year I was in a car over on the northeast side of town. and a little girl from eamp carne up and knoeked on my window. Experiences like that made me realize how rewarding NYSP is." 
Duncan and Zimmerman of­fered presentations on the 
see NYSP I page 4 
page 2 The Observer· INSIDE Wednesday, February 21, 1996 
• INSIDE COUJMW 

• Wtmw AT A GLANCE 


Random acts of violence 

Walking the streets of central London ... alone ... at night... If this sounds like a scene from a horror movie, that could not be further from the truth. This was, in fact, a situa­tion in which many ND London Program stu­


dents felt quite comfort- Liz Foran  
able in a city which  Associate News Editor  
seemed tame compared  

to the downtown area in any American city. The emphasis in the preceding paragraph is on the past tense. 
For this spring's group of 80 Notre Dame students, that feeling of security will be a memory. While threat of physical violence on the street is still decreased compared to America, the worries of random explosions will haunt these students while they do roun­tine activities. Daily rituals like getting to class, attending theater performances, visiting points of interest or just going out to a pub with friends become potentially dangerous sit­uations, and the fear is now very real. 
The Covent Garden, Leicester Square, Piccadilly Circus area is where most of the entertainment centers in downtown London. The area is home to some of the best clubs, bars and pubs, not to mention the countless memories of past and present Londomers. 
Now it is also the site of the most recent bombing by IRA terrorists. Although London police said they believe the bus was not the intended target of the explosion, the question of why the bomb was being carried in the entertainment center of the city can only lead to sinister speculations. Families returning from a Sunday show, teenagers enjoying an evening of dancing, the never-ending stream of tourists making finishing a weekend of sightseeing ... were these the targets of this pointless violence? 
A bomb was deactivated by the London police found near Shaftsbury Avenue, in the near the same entertainment area the bus explosion was located in. Located in a phone booth on Charing Cross Road, near the busiest shopping district in London, this bomb indis­criminately could have taken the life of any­one who happened to be passing by. 
Another bomb which exploded in a truck in the Docklands business district area was the same area a Notre Dame London program tour passed though last semester. 
Spending a semester abroad has its risks. The benefits received far outweigh the poten­tial discomfort or danger. Ususally. 
Violence is never rational, but there are at least steps that can be taken to protect your­self. But the IRA bombings in London are ran­dom and unavoidable. They are in the centers of entertainment, culture, even in the public transportation system. Nothing can be done to protect yourself; thinking ahead won't help. 
Among the many consequences of the IRA's bombing is the prevention of students from experiencing new places and learning about cultures other than their own. Or at least experiencing them without fear. 
Unfortunately for this year's London Program, those 80 people will be forced to experience the constant threat of random vio­lence that last semester's group was lucky enough to avoid. These incidents may influ­ence some students' decisions about whether or not to study abroad at all. But the resolve to broaden horizons and gain life altering experiences will hopefully allow people to overcome their fear and still have the best four months of their lives. 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
• TmlAY's STAFF 
News Production Gwendolyn Norgle John Hutchinson Jillian Pagliocca Belle Bautista Sports Jackie Moser Betsy Baker Megan McGrath Lab Tech Graphics Michael Hungeling Tom Roland 

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
South Korea, Japan declare economic zones, duck dispute 
SEOUL, South Korea 
Japan and South Korea staked competing claims to waters around their shores Tuesday, but avoided-at least for now­further friction over disputed islets that fall within those waters. 
Acting hours apart, the two governments declared exclusive rights to the natural resources in the sea that lies between them, without mentioning the practically uninhabited islets, called Tok-do by the Koreans and Takeshima by the Japanese. 
Their actions appeared to be a coordinat­ed attempt to close a diplomatic breach caused by their conflicting claims to tiny outcroppings of volcanic rock halfway be­tween the two nations in the Sea of Japan, which Koreans call the East Sea. 
Aside from a small South Korean military force, the islets about 150 miles offshore of each country are inhabited by a solitary South Korean fisherman. But the sur­rounding waters are rich in marine life and the seabed is thought to contain vast min­eral deposits. 
While their official announcements avoid­ed mention of the islets, spokesmen for both governments said ownership of the clusters of rock would be subject to further negotiations, and neither gave up its claim. 
The two countries have argued sharply in the past week over ownership of the islets, creating a frenzied outpouring of anti­Japanese feeling in South Korea. The Japanese have reacted more calmly. 
The conflict has simmered for nearly a century, and reignited recently after both countries announced their intention to declare exclusive economic zones under the 1994 U.N. Convention on the Law of the Sea. 

py·· RUSSIA 
\Island in diSpUt(!r' MONGOLIA: 
,, 

........ 
Tenslb~'~ween South Korea ruitf)~p<m has 
risen sha!plyin the past week afterJapan renewed 
its claim tda volcanic islet calleQ Tok-do in 
CHINA
Korean and Takeshima in Japanese.which has been iqdispute for nearly acentury. ' 
r--­
601TNies 

SOUTH 
OOion 

KOREA 
Japan claims that it established military control over the islet in 1904 in its war with Russia. Six years later, Japan forced Korea to sign an annexation treaty. The 
Korean Peninsula was under 
Japanese colonial rule from 1910 to 1945. 

APN/m. J. Castello 
Dole leads fundraising race 
WASHINGTON 
Despite a tightening Republican pres­idential race, Sen. Bob Dole continues to be the fund-raising leader, with an­other $1.79 million added to his war chest in January. Campaign reports filed Tuesday with the Federal Election Commission show Dole raised twice as much as commentator Pat Buchanan and about four times as much as for­

mer Tennessee Gov. Lamar Alexander last month. Dole began February with a comfortable $4.8 million in the bank. In comparison, Buchanan reported raising $893,209 from individuals in January, and finished the month with just $101,192 in cash on hand. Alexander raised just $437,000 and finished with about $425,000 in the bank. 
Singer arrested for stage violence 
LONDON 
Police arrested a rock singer at the British music indus­
try's Brit Awards after he allegedly attacked three chil­
dren performing with Michael Jackson. BBC Radio identi­
fied the man detained Monday night as Jarvis Cocker, a 
member of the British pop group Pulp. "Jarvis did not as­
sault anyone," said his spokesman, Scott Piering. Scot­
land Yard said one 11-year-old boy was punched, anoth­
er got a cut on the ear and a 12-year-old was thrown to 
the stage. Cocker was released on bail this morning. The 
incident occurred during Jackson's performance, but not 
within range of television cameras. The award show is to 
be broadcast in Britain tonight. 

Woman takes the cake in sprint 
LIBERAL, Kan. 
Frying pan in hand, Christina Wilbers sprinted 415 yards in 60.33 seconds to win the annual Shrove Tuesday pancake race over 14 competitors here and eight in a town in England. The 24-year-old middle school teacher might have finished the course in a faster time if she had not slowed down twice, explaining later that she didn't see the finish line. The ladies of Liberal are now tied 23­23 in their friendly competition with Shrove Tuesday rac­ers in Olney, England. Earlier in the day, Dawn Gallyot dashed from The Bull pub in Olney's market square to the ancient Church of St. Peter and St. Paul in 73 sec­onds. Mrs. Gallyot, a 38-year-old school administrator, wore a traditional head scarf and apron but opted for modern running shoes. She said she was "ecstatic." Liberal joined in friendly rivalry with Olney in 1950, after seeing a picture of the Olney race in Time magazine. 
Marijuana kills thought process 
CHICAGO 
People who smoke marijuana heavily -at least two out of every three days-may have trouble paying atten­tion and performing simple tasks even a day after going without the drug, a study found. Researchers compared 65 college students who smoked at least 22 days a month with 64 similar students who smoked nine days a month at most. A day after going without the drug, the heavy marijuana users performed significantly worse on tasks that involved sustaining and shifting attention. The ability to remember things newly learned did not differ signifi­cantly between the groups, the researchers reported in The Journal of the American Medical Association. 

Wedne;day, Feb. 21 
Accu Weather® forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 


jtndianapoli3 53° I 
ILL. 
• 

The AccuWeather®forecast for noon, Wednesday, Feb. 21. 

WARM STATIONARY 
Cl 1996 AccuWealher, Inc. 
Pressure 
H L 


HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY VIB Assocsated Prsss 
Atlanta 70 55 Dallas 85 60 New Orleans 78 57 
Baltimore 56 45 Denver 65 38 New York 50 42 4,~,~~~ rt.ill (1-~ . u Boston 51 42 Los Angeles 62 56 Philadelphia 57 42 
Showers T·storms Rain Flurries Snow Ice Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy Chicago 50 31 Miami 82 63 Phoenix 73 58 Via Associated Press GraphicsNet Columbus 52 39 Minneapolis 42 27 St. Louis 65 39 
Wednesday, February 21, 1996 The Observer • NEWS page 3 
• HALL PRESIDENTS' COUNCIL 
Buchanan takes state primary

Student group urges 
Dole follows 


bone marrow donation 
close behind in 

By DEBORAH SCHULTZ 
News Writer 
Encouraging studenLo; to reg­ister to become possible bone marrow donors, Jayroe Moore and Miguel Berastain, trea­surer and vicfl president of the Minority Premedical Society. respectively, visited the Hall Presidents' Council meeting last night at Keenan Hall. 
The Minority l'remedical So­ciety will be having sign-ups on Mareh 1 in LaFortune Student Center between 8 a.m. and 6 
p.m for students to become donors. On this day, samples will be drawn from each per­son and wlll then be put into the national register of donors. 
"We register people national­ly almost like a data base. And if people are scared, this is not 
n.s bad a..'l drawing blood. It is actually very easy," Berastain explained. 
Hegistering on March 1 does not necessarily moan that stu· dents will become automatic donors. Even if the martow dons match, the students still have the option of declining. 
"This is a very long process. Two hlst tubHs arH taken and after the first tube is looked at, the donor ~~an stop the proeess by mfusing to let anyone look at the seeond sample," Moore said. "Or if the seeond tube matches, the student can still decline at any moment." 
Moore also asked all hall presidento; to donate $25 to the marrow donation drive from eaeh dorm to cover the cost of matching Caucasian donors. 
Due to the low number of minority donors, it is frPP to check for matching donors in minorities, Moore explained. But for Caucasians, lt costs $50. Right now there is a fed­eral grant which will pay half the cost fer Caucasians. 
"We really hope we have a good turn-out because donors are really needed, especially for minorities. If a member of a minority needs a marrow do­nation and a match is not found in the family, the chance of finding a match is basically the same as winning the lot­tery," Moore explained. 
In other IIPC news, the Council picked a date for their own service project which includes volunteering at the "There are Children Here" program sponsored by James Langford, concurrent assistant professor, Arts and Letters Core Course. This project is focused on giving homeless children the opportunity to have a real childhood. HPC members plan on volunteering at Langford's farm on April 14. 
New Hampshire 
Associated Press 
MANCHESTER, N.H. 
"It's a long way from here to 
San Diego," said Michigan Gov. 
John Engler, underscoring that 
New Hampshin1's three-way 
race had left a muddled race to 
capture the Republican 
nomination at the party's 
August California convention. 
As the votes were tallied, Buchanan held a narrow lead -and Dole held out hope the state that doomed his 1988 presidential bid would some­how deliver him a late-night comeback this time. 
With 75 percent of precincts 
counted, Buchanan had 36,664 
votes, or 27 percent, to 35,017 
or 26 percent for Dole. Alexan­
der had 31,178, 23 percent, 
Publishing heir Steve Forbes 
was a distant fourth at 12 per­
cent, and said by associates to 
be reassessing his campaign. 
Voters cited pocketbook is­
sues -jobs, taxes and budget 
deficits -as they judged the 
eight-man Republican field. 
President Clinton won the 
Democratic primary without 
major opposition. lie had much 
to celebrate -the contentious 
GOP race was exposing Repub­
lican divisions sure to fester in 
the contests yet to come. 
A three-way battle leaving New Hampshire was good news for Buchanan, who would ex­pect Dole and Alexander to

lEARN CASH by DONATING 
split the mainstream Republican vote.
You could earn: 

New Hampshire's results were likely to winnow the field$30°0aHer your first plasma donation! 
at the bottom of the ballot, 
though none of the struggling 
candidates would admit as
$1500 if you donate alone (first visit) 
much in advance. Forbes, par­ticularly, had to be disap­

+$ soo if you show college I.D. (first visit) 
pointed. lie was tied for the 

±£1Q00 per person nyou recrutt sumeone and they donate 
$30°0 TOTAL! Help Us Save Lives Must be 18 years old; proof of current address with photo I.D. 
CoME ro:  HouRs:  
AMERICAN BIOMEDICAL  M-F:  9-6  
515 LINCOLNWAY WEST  SAT:  8-5  
SOUTH BEND, IN 46601-1117  234-6010  

Free Pregnancy Test 
New Hampshire lead a month ago but his effort to promote a flat income tax wilted as mod­erate voters chose between Dole and Alexander. 
Indiana Sen. Dick Lugar was running a distant fifth at 6 percent. Anti-abortion candi­date Alan Keyes at 3 percent. Illinois businessmen Murry Taylor and California Rep. Robert Dornan had even less to show for their New Hampshire efforts. 
Dole was headed Wednesday to North and South Dakota, which vote next Tuesday. Alexander headed South, to Georgia and South Carolina, hoping his Tennessee roots would trans­late into regional strength. 
"I've got the right ideas, Dole has no ideas, Buchanan has the wrong ideas," was Alexander's pitch. 
Buchanan said, "We've run 
'---is_n_or_o_n_rh_e_ba_l_lo_r----=-~:---.-;:;:------,--;-;---' 

Dixville Notch ~.at GOPtally ..­
Thirty-nine votes were cast just after midnight in the tiny community of Dixville Notch, N.H. How the candidates fared: 
Dole 


=-14 

Alexander Buchanan Forbes Lugar Gramm* Powell** 


*droppedoutofraceafter/owacaucr•s **one write-in l'otefor Colin Powell who 
a very positive campaign and we've given voice to some of the voiceless folks in America, like workers whose jobs are being shipped overseas." He performed strong in the state where he launched his primary challenge to George Bush four years ago. 
"He's against abortion and I just think he's probably the most dynamic of the Republi­cans," was how Kellie Ljungholm, a 26-year-old teacher, explained her vote for Buchanan. Kathy Bantas, 53, chose Dole. "We need integrity back in the White House," she said. 
There were just 16 GOP con­vention delegates at stake, with 996 delegates needed to win the Republican nomination. But New Hampshire's 44-year-old presidential primary has tradi­tionally served to winnow the field. 
The state's influence has been undeniable. In 12 presi­dential election years, 11 can­didates won here en route to the White House. Clinton is the sole exception, finishing second in 1992. 
Delaware votes next on Sat· urday, followed by North Dakota, South Dakota and Ari· zona next Tuesday. More than two dozen states vote in a fre­netic month after that, includ­ing Florida and Texas, the Midwest industrial states and then California. 
By March 26, more than two­thirds of the GOP convention delegates will have been cho­sen. 
New Hampshire's electorate was more diverse than conser· vative-dominated caucuses in Iowa and Louisiana. A third of Tuesday's GOP primary voters described themselves as inde­pendents and a third as moder­ate. 
Also, six of 10 voters who completed exit surveys had an unfavorable opinion of the reli­gious right and two-thirds op· posed the Republican platform plank calling for a constitution­al amendment banning abor­tion. 
MCs: Jim Schmiedeler Tim Seymour 
11 tft .9Lnnua[ 
Referrals to Support Agencies Confidential Counseling 
February 24,1996 
SOUTH BEND • EAST DOWNTOWN SOUTH BEND 
Stepan Center, 8:00 PM
Iron wood Circle 417 N. St. Louis Blvd. 20041ronwood Circle, Suite I Call 234·0363 273·8986 (24 hours) 

Tickets: $3.00 
BOTH LOCATIONS CONVENIENT TO CAMPUS 
Proceeds benefit the Lo an Center 

page 4 The Observer • NEWS Wednesday, February 21, 1996 

Supertanker spills near wildlife Grades 
Associated Press 
ST. ANN'S HEAD, Wales 

The crippled oil tanker Sea Empress leaked heavily overnight, spilling up to 6 mil­lion gallons near one of Britain's most important wildlife conservatories, a pollution official said today. 
The salvage effort has been 

NYSP 
continued from page 1 
NYSP program at Notre Dame, which were heard by two U.S. senators and four U.S. Con­gressmen, including Republi­can presidential hopeful Richard Lugar of Indiana. The two Notre Dame students fo­cused their presentations on the incorporation of course credit and having th.e coordinators actually live on campus so they could interact on a daily basis. 
Duncan and Zimmerman's speeches were effective be­cause, according to Duncan, members of the audience who were from other colleges in­quired about the Notre Dame program and mentioned using it as a model for their own NYSP programs. 
"People were impressed," stated Duncan. "A lot of peo­ple were interested in trying it. We're the raw material for the program." 
"After their presentations I spoke with twenty representa­tives from other colleges who want to spend time with me discussing how we manage the program," Roemer added. "They want to know what we require for students to get credit and how we fund the program." 
Notre Dame currently spends $200,000 of its own money on the program, in addition to $74,000 appropriated by the federal government. 

disrupted by rough seas. Workers say the ship shows no signs of breaking up and they hope to run it aground in a more favorable loca­tion to unload the remaining cargo. 
The Sea Empress, carrying 38 mil­lion gallons of crude, ruptured some of its oil cargo tanks Thursday when it first ran aground on St. Ann's Head near the mouth of Milford Haven estuary. 
The ship ran aground again Monday night, and Joe Small, head of the marine pollution control unit at the scene, said today that the tanker appeared to have lost up to 6 
Bare 

ntials 

Some employers promise you the world. 
We offer you achance to make the world better. 
Have you considered 
THE HOLY CROSS CANDIDATE YEAR? 
A one-year program at Moreau Seminary at the University of Notre Dame for college graduates interested in exploring the possibility of a lifetime of service as a Holy Cross priest or brother. Scholarship assistance is available. 
Call or write for information: 
Fr. John Conley, C.S.C. Fr. Patrick Neary, C.S.C. Congregation of Holy Cross Box 541, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219) 631-6385 
million gallons of crude oil since. Earlier Monday, officials estimated that 300,000 gallons of oil had leaked. Eleven million gallons were spilled in 1989's Exxon Valdez dis­aster in Alaska. Seven aircraft were spraying dispersants on a slick about 3 1/2 miles long this morning. 
Around 150 workers were in­volved in clean-up efforts today on beaches and coves along the estuary where oil is coming ashore. 
The oil has already killed 3,000 rare rock pool starfish at West Angle Bay, close to the stranded tanker. 
continued from page I 
required for scholarships only." 
Graduate school causes academic anxiety for many students. 
"Grades are just one part of the picture," said Nancy Nekvasil, associate professor of biology and pre-professional advisor. 
Nekvasil stressed extra curricular activities, stan­dardized tests, letters of recommendation and interviews as primary fac­tors in graduate school admissions. "There's so much more you have to consider," she said .. 
Ans some students agree. 
"The grades aren't what matters, it's what you get out of the class," said senior chemistry major and Residence Hall Association President Paula Raczkowski. 

"Academics are the most important, but you need to be a well-rounded woman. You need to get involved." 


The Observer 
is now hiring for the following paid positions: 
Saint Mary's Sports Editor 
Interested applicants should submit a resume and a 
·one page personal statement to Tim Sherman in 314 LaFortune by Tuesday, February 27. Any questions? Call Tim at 631-4543. 
4th Day Presents APanel Discussion On 
Finding Christ in Difficult Situations 
with 

Dr. Patty O'Hara, Bob Mallon and Christy Raslavsky 
7:30 Wednesday Night in the Keenan/Stanford Chapel 

ALL WELCOME 
Wednesday, February 21, 1996 The Observer • NEWS page 5 
Mardi Gras madness hits French Quarter Somers 
Drunkenness, nudity abound in New Orleans 
By MARY FOSTER Associa1ed Press 
NEW ORLEANS 

Mardi Gras madness went on all night, and the parade route was already jam-packed this morning when jazz clar­inetist Pete Founlain lurched toward the French Quarter with his Half Fast Walking Club. 
Fountain's stroll is the offi­cial launch of Fat Tuesday, the centerpiece of the garish party that spreads processions through the suburbs and ex­plodes in a raucous orgy of jangly bands, public drunken­ness and bared breasts in the French Quarter. 
More than a million revelers were expected to jam the French Quarter for America's biggest street party, everything from parades to a transvestite beauty pageant. Nine parades were scheduled in the suburbs. 
With a pile of beer cans be­side him and a string of beads around his neck, University of Texas student Jim Marcus, 22, awaited the festivities in a lawn chair. 
"At first I couldn't move, then I decided why bother," Marcus said. "I might as well just rest here and wait for the next parade." 
In contrast to Monday's gray sky and rain, the sun was out and temperatures were ex­pected to hit the 70s, warm enough to bring out more bare skin. 
Members of the Half Fast Marching Club, celebrating 35 years of Carnival parading, were costumed as ancient Egyptians, wearing satin skirts, white stockings and pharaoh headpieces. 
How do they stay in shape? 
The Office of Alcohol and Drug Education is looking for peer educa­tors for the 1996-97 academic year. 
"Every Sunday we go out and drink for a couple of hours," Fountain said. 
Among the members of his group, some young men pushed wheelbarrows down fashionable St. Charles Avenue. 
Paul Buckley said he had $4,000 worth of fancy beads for him and two friends to pftch to the crowd. 
Numerous "marching soci­eties" follow Fountain's lead, including the gilded coconut­throwing Zulus -black people in black face parodying the previously all-white Carnival clubs -and then Rex, King of Carnival. 
It all ends at midnight when the religious season of Lent be­gins. Mounted pP.lice herd the most determined revelers off the French Quarter's narrow streets, usually into already crowded bars. 
Today's celebrations capped a month-long Carnival season that has seen at least 100 pa-spicy gumbo. 
In the French Quarter, cos­tumes from elaborate to skimpy fill the streets and bal­conies. 
And while police had said they would crack down on those who expose too much flesh or throw beads from bal­conies, no arrests had been made by the time of Monday's huge Orpheus parade. 
"I've seen more breasts in the last hour than I've seen in my entire life," said Horace Wilson, 28, of New York. 
Diane Livingston, 36, of Los Angeles held up dozens of long strings of faux pearls. 
"This is more jewels than any movie star has," she said. "I've forgotten all about my real life." 
rades across southern Louisiana. 
In Cajun Country, near Lafayette, tradition sends masked riders out just after dawn to visit farms and houses collecting the ingredients for a 





The Observer 
is now hiring for the following paid positions: 
Assistant Accent Editor Associate Accent Editor 
Please bring a one page personal statement to Joey in 314 LaFortune by 5 p.m. Sunday, February 25. Call 631-4540 with questions. 
Are you Motivating~ Easy to talk to 
and urilling to help others? If so, then we need you! 

Peer educators are stu­dents from a wide range of perspectives, who vol­unteer their time to help shape positive norms regarding alcohol/other drugs and re.lated issues. 
to probe shooting 
Special to The Observer 
Judge Andrew Somers will discuss the Fergal Caragher shooting and public inquiry tonight at 7:30 p.m. in room 126 DeBartolo in a lecture sponsored by the Northern Ireland Awareness Group at Notre Dame. 
On December 30, 1990, the 20-year-old Caragher was killed and his brother Micheal was seriously wounded when British soldiers opened fire on their car. Eyewitnesses said that neither of the men were armed, breaking any laws, posing any threat to soldiers, nor were they warned to stop their car. 
When the British govern­ment would not investigate, the people of Cullyhanna organized their own inquiry into the shooting. 
Somers is a researcher and activist concerning issues of Irish human and civil rights. Along with a panel of distin­guished judges from France, England and Germany, he presided over the community­organized legal inquiry into the death of Caragher. 
• CORRECTION 
The commencement arti­cle in yesterday's Obst~rver mistakenly named· the class of '96 as the class of '97. 
The Observer regrets the error. 

Peer educators will be involved in Freshmen Orientation as well as presenting programs in residence halls through­
out the year. 
If you would like to make a difference .... Please pick up an application at the office of Alcohol and Drug Education l mezzanine level LaFortune or call x7970 for more information 
-~----~ --~­
page 6 The Observer • NEWS Wednesday, February 21, 1996 

Obenga 
continued from page I 
importance of Maat to Africans. 
"Western civilization and its foundations of rationality and science all began with the Greeks and their idea of logos. This word is still visible today, meaning 'the study of. in words like anthropology, ontology, or theology," Obenga said, imply­ing that Maat is every bit as fundamental in African culture as logic is in Western culture. 
Obenga went on to explain Maat's inherent involvement in the thoughts and dealings of many Africans. 
"Maat consists of five reali­ties, and each of these areas where it is manifested has five dimensions," Obenga said. 
Maat can be seen in the di­vine world, in the cosmos, in government, in community life and in one's human self. Each of these areas has its own di­vine, cosmological, state, social, and anthropological compo­nents. This broad and interwo­ven band of occurrences gives Maat its balance and order, Obenga explained. 
"Maat is very powerful. It's very deep, deep, deep. It deals with all realities," Obenga noted. 
Celebrate a friend's birthday with a special Observer ad.  
DOYOUWAIII'TO .......AMaD _....,.. ltll,lll..sn..nMiiiWIIM .... NOW ACCEPI'ING APPLICATIONS FOR •This position is basically a precursor for the 1997-98 Student Body Treasurer. • Any Sophomore in the Business College who has completed an introductory Accountina course is eli&ible. • Applications are available in the Student Body Theuurer's Omce (inside Student Government on the 2nd floor of LaFortune) between 8a.m. and 4p.m. Monday -Friday. • Applications are due by Friday, February 23rd.  

THE WORLD IS HUNGRY FORYOUR HELP 

"Maat is more perfect than the ideas that come from it, like justice. Justice is only an ideal of perfection, but it isn't pure thought. Maat has this purifica­tion, where it doesn't condemn but it helps an individual achieve balance and harmony," Obenga said. 
In his introduction to Oben­ga's lecture yesterday after­noon in LaFortune's Notre Dame Room, Christopher Kougniazonde, founder and president of Notre Dame's Pan­African Cultural Center, which sponsored the lectute, noted, "Pan-Africanism is a conscious effort to preserve our culture." 
"Nobody needs to fear Pan­African ideas, we're talking about bringing all of humanity together," Kougniazonde said. 
Obenga will speak tonight in the Hesburgh Library audito­rium on differences between African and European values. Later in the week, he will give four lectures addressing an­cient African history. 

Obenga's collection of lec­tures is the first in a series of three seminars intended to fos­ter a greater intellectual representation of Africa, Kougniazonde explained. 
"PRAY! You CAN DO EVERYTHING, YES, YOU CAN DO IT THROUGH PRAYER." -Our Lady of Medjugorje, November 13, 1983 



ROSARY IN THE 

UAD 
Come join us and pray the rosary TODAY and Fridays during Lent. We will be praying on South Quad around the flagpole at 12:15 PM. Everyone is welcome! If you don't know how to pray the rosary, don't worry, we'll have prayer cards. Just come out and pray! 
LIFE's SnoRT. PRAY HARD 
Senior ND Premed Students 
•Interested in exploring primary care medicine and health ministry~ 
•Desire to serve a medically indigent community in a Christian setting~ 
•Willing to defer medical school matriculation for one year~ 
APPLY NOW FOR THE 
Thomas Dooley Service Award Project 
A year-long service project at St. Joseph's Health Center in South Bend sponsored by the ND Alumni Club of St. Joseph's Valley. Recipients receive a considerable stipend to cover room and board, and medical care through the St. Joseph's Health Center. 
Applications are available now at the Center for Social Concerns! APLICATION DEADLINE -MARCH 18 
for further information, please contact: 
Valerie Soledad 

1995/96 Dooley Recipient St. Joseph's Health center 289-7662 
Maureen Skurski 
Center for Social Concerns 631-5779 
L____________________________________________________________________________ 
Wednesday, February 21, 1996 The Observer • NEWS page 7 
Historian: Race promotes unity Federal judge moves 
In her lecture, Brooks­the divisions it has outlined, she

But its definition bomb trial to Denver
Higgenbotham outlined the un­said, "A lot of black women did 
derlying theme of metalan­not side with 0 . .1. There were

is still unclear, By PAUL QUEARY 
guage as applied to race in the also many black people who 

Associated Press 
United States. Haec has become thought that the evidence andaccording to prof so powerful in American society image of the police were so OKLAHOMA CITY By ERICA ESPINOLA that it can unite people of var­problematic that they could not 
A federal judge moved the 
News Wriier ied economic classes under have sided against him." 
Oklahoma City bombing case to
interests that do not necessarily She also mentioned the divi­

Denver on Tuesday, saying the
benefit them simply because sion among blacks in the 

need to protect the defendantsBecause it is powerful enough they belong to the same race. Clarence Thomas/ Anita Hill 
from a public thirst for
to unite an entire group of peo­In addition to the power this controversy, adding that many vengeance outweighs the desirepln from all economic classes term carries with it is the am­white women were more 
of the victims' families to
under a common cause, race is biguity that accompanies it, she adamantly against Clarence attend the trial.
tlw metalanguage in America. said. Thomas than black women. 
Timothy McVeigh and TerryBut it rmnains one of the most "We bring our own under­She cited the example of the 
Nichols "have been demo­
ambiguous terms in our vo­standings of words from our unfriendly reception Anita Hill 
nized," U.S. District Judge
cabulary, according .to historian positions in life. We have to un­experienced at an all African­Hichard Matsch wrote. "There l~vclyn Brooks-IIigge n botham derstand our own social posi­American women's college be­is so great a prejudice againstof llarvard Univnrsity. tion," Brooks-lliggenbotham cause they did not believe her 
these two defendants in the
"Hacn has united people de­said, referring to the different story. 
state of Oklahoma that theyspite the fact that it has been interpretations people have of "There were blacks who 
cannot obtain a fair and impar­
used against them," she said race. thought Clarence Thomas 
tial trial at any place fixed bywtwn addrr.ssing the issuns of It is a metalanguage because should be appointed just be­
law for holding court in that 
g«~ruler and race in lecturing is has so many different mean­cause he was black," she said. 
state."
yestnrday on twr award-win­ings to different people. Brooks-lliggenbotham spoke He did not set a trial date.
ning article about the metalan­In history, the metalanguage as part of the gender studies 
Prosecutors had urged
guag•~ of race. of race has had the ability to series and took questions from 
Matsch to move the trial to
Stressing the need for more overpower gender, class, and those in attendance. In dis­
Tulsa, about 90 miles from thehistorians and scholars to con­flthnic conflict, according to cussing her article, she consid­bomb site, so that victims' fami­
sider racn as a main issun in Brooks-Jiiggenbotham. She ered different angles of thought lies could easily attend. But
their writing, Brooks-lliggen­called race "an umbrella, a and perception regarding race Matsch, chief ferleral judge inhotham expressed tlw "ner.d to global sign that masks differ­issues that lead to her conclu­Denver, sided with the defense,fill in the gaps and recognize ences." sion that race is "an unstable, which wanted the trial held in 
ttw names" of those contribut­Citing the implications the shifting, and strategic recon­
Denver.
ing to the racial aspect of his­O.J. Simpson trial has had on struction" that must be recog­"The interests of the victims tory. the black community as well as nized. 
in being able to attend this trial 
The PAN-AFRICAN CULTURAL CENTER, in association with 
the salon of Friendship and the African-American Student Alliance, 
PRESENTS Dr. Theophile Obenga 

Speaking on: 

Qlamparizan li.etfu.e.en J\fritan & 1Jlurap.ean ~alu.ez a£ QIi&ilh:atian 
February 21st, 7:30PM, Hesburgh Library Auditorium lfrtoMPifNIED fill TtlE Mnootoof liND INfPIRINfiiiDitEf oF FniTtl llofPEl ENfEMllLE OF NoTRE DnME 


ANCIENT AFRICAN HISTORY Last Seminar Meets: Feb. 22nd, 12:15-1:15 Mont2omezy Theatre, LaFortune 
This Project was made possible thanks to the support of many organizations and departments, including: President Office, Institute for S~holarships in _Liberal Arts, Provost Office, Kellogg Institute, Notre Dame Black Alumni Association, Multicultural Executive Council, St. Mary's College Mulucultural AffalfS, Graduate Student Union, and Community Relations. 
in Oklahoma are outweighed by the court's obligation to assure that the trial be conducted with fundamental fairness and with due regard for all constitutional requirements," the judge said. 
The April 19 bombing of the Alfred P. Murrah Federal Building killed 169 people and injured more than 500 in the deadliest terrorist attack on 
U.S. soil. 
"Because this was a crime that occurred in their state, Ok­lahomans wanted to know ev­ery detail about the explosion, the investigation, the court pro­ceedings and, in particular. the victims," the judge said. "There is a fair inference that only a guilty verdict with a death sentence could be con­sidered a just result in the minds of many." 
McVeigh and Nichols could face the death penalty if con­victed of murder and conspir­acy. 
Victims' families said it will be hard for some to attend the trial 500 miles away. 
"I plan on going several times during the trial. but not every day," said Aren Almon, whose year-old daughter Baylee died in the bombing and was pho­tographed in the arms of a fire­fighter. 
Keith Coverdale, whose sons Aaron, 5, and Elijah, 2. died in the building's day-care center, said: "We in Oklahoma didn't choose for them to come here and for this bomb to blow up here. We are all victims in this state, and this will bring hard­ship on some families to at­tend." 
Attorney General Janet Heno said the government will not fight the move to Denver and will do everything possible "to provide survivors and loved ones with an opportunity to ob­serve and follow events in the courtroom.'' 
Gov. Frank Keating said he, too, will work to see that the families have ways of getting to the trial. 
Under the broad definition used by prosecutors, anywhere from 750 to more than 2,000 people are considered victims of the blast. That includes the families of those killed and sur­vivors of the bombing, some of whom weren't actually in the building. 
Oklahoma Attorney General 
Drew Edmondson said that he 
has asked federal officials to 
provide money to help victims 
attend thfl trial in Denver. 
"Every defense witness will be provided with a plane ticket and lodging to attend the trial, and I think it's appropriate that same right be granted to vic­tims and families of victims," Edmondson said. 
Also, Keating said he has 
called the governor of Colorado 
and the mayor of Denver to line 
up lodging for the victims' 
families. 
In Denvflr, Mayor Wellington 
Webb said a city safety team al­
ready has held preliminary 
meetings in anticipation of the 
move. 
"People in Denver, given 
their Western ethic, will work 
with those families and work 
with the courts," Webb said. 
Defense lawyers were 
pleased by the move to Denver. 
"Colorado appflars to be a district where we can get a fair trial based on the evidence," said Hob Nigh, one of McVeigh's lawyers. 
U.S. District Judge Wayne Al­ley had originally set the trial for Lawton, 90 miles from Ok­lahoma City. 



VIEWPOINT 
page 8 Wednesday, February 21, 1996 
THE OBSERVER 

NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q. Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY'S OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Norre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1995-96 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief john Lucas Bwiness Manager Joseph Riley 

News Editor ............................... .David Tyler Advenising Manager ........................... John Potter Viewpoint Editor .................. Meaghan Smith Ad Design Manager ..................... .)en Mackowiak Spons Editor ............................. Mike Norbut Production Manager .................. Jacqueline Moser Accent Editor ......................... Krista Nannery Systems Manager ............................ Sean Gallavan Saint Mary's Editor .................... Pani Carson Observer Marketing Director .......... Pete Coleman Controller ............................................. Eric Lorge 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of rhe Universiry of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. h does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administra­tion of either instimcion. The news is reponed as accura£ely and objectively as possible. Unsigned edi­torials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Ediror, Viewpoinl Ediwr, Accenl Editor, Photo Editor, Spans Ediwr, and Saint Mary's Ediwr. Commentaries, letters and Inside Columns present rhe views of the amhors, and nor necessarily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available ro all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's com­munity and to all readers. The free expression of varying opinions through letrers is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 

Editor-in-Chief 631-4542 Business Office 631-5313 Managing Editor/Viewpoint 631-4541 Advertising 631-6900/8840 Sports 631-4 543 Systems/Marketing Dept. 631-8839 News/Photo 631-5323 Office Manager 631-7471 Accent/Saint Mary's 631-4540 Fax 631-6927 Day Editor/Production 631-5303 Viewpoint E-Mail Viewpoint.! @nd.edu General Information 631-7471 Ad E-Mail observer@darwin.cc.nd.edu 


Good and bad news about American freedoms 
I suppose now that I have made a bit of an issue over my attempts to think more positively in the new year, every­one is going to expect me to express nothing but happy sentiments in my articles. This could eventually become a problem. Luckily, however, I couldn't be happier as I write today. Ministry is going to be performing in concert in April, and this afternoon, after waiting anxiously in line and bonding with fel­low fans, I held in my hands the key to my happiness -concert tickets. How psyched am I? (That's supposed to be a rhetorical question, but if you need an answer, you'll have to come visit me ­the extent of my positive energy right now just can't be place into words.) 
Of course, even with something as great as this to look forward to, I am not above being irked by other things around me. For example, a few weeks ago I learned that a high school student in the Philadelphia area was kicked out of school for wearing his long hair in spikes. Supposedly, this Raymond Mitchell was told that he could come back when he refrained from wearing his hair in a style that posed a "safety hazard" and created a "major distrac­tion." Mr. Mitchell is currently battling this in court right now, and it makes me mad that he has had to go to the judicial system for his simple desire to express himself; it makes me even more angry that Supreme Court precedent exists indicating he may well lose his case. I mean, COME ON! What does freedom of expression mean if one can't wear one's hair as one wishes? And these flimsy excuses the school gives as rea­sons. A safety hazard? Kids come into high schools and even grade schools across America every day with guns and knives, and these kids are not doing it with a mind toward expression their individuality. In this day and age, ban­ning spiked hair on the rationale that it constitutes a "safety hazard" just sounds ridiculous. And as far as it being a "major distraction?" Perhaps it is, but 
since when is freedom from distraction a right superior to the right of self­expression, a right written into our Bill of Rights by the founding fathers of our country? 
And I don't like this attempt in Colorado to defeat freedom of the press, 

Kirsten Dunne 
either. While the case for censorship there is a little stronger, it still should not prevail. This guy who killed two people comes out and says that he was encouraged to commit the murders by a book written by some other fellow on how to be one's own hit-man. (Unfortunately for him, he must have skipped the chapter on how to avoid get­ting caught.} Now they say that the book should be banned. As I said, there are legitimate concerns here, but none that can't and shouldn't be addressed in a better way than resorting to the days when our speech and press were not free. 
The real problem here is the man who bought this book and acted seriously on it. Reasonable people would not buy this book in the first place,-except per­haps for entertainment value. And even supposing one read the book cover to cover, intending all the while to become his own hit-man, there is a thought process that must intervene. As one of my co-workers said one day when we were discussing our own potential abili­ties to murder in given situations, "It's pretty hard to kill a guy." There is the moral aspect: aren't you going to regret this later? And if you don't happen to be very conscientious, you still don't want to get caught. A reasonable per­son will realize (even if this book doesn't point it out -which it should) that, if you kill someone, there's a pretty good chance you're going to have to atone for it. And for a reasonable person, these forces combined are probably more than enough to keep him from killing some­one he otherwise might. The problem lies with the people of whom this is not true, and it is them we have to focus on in our attempts to deal with the situa­tion. (Is the author of this book a rea­sonable person, you might ask? Probably not, but while we can legally stoop people from killing, we cannot legally stop people from exercising their First Amendment right of freedom of the press -which is as it should be.) 

What's more, if you really want to kill someone, you can figure out how to do it on your own. During one of my frequent visits to the 'Bend, I found myself in a very interesting conversation with a Notre Dame senior (let's call him "John"). He very zealously offered to be my hit-man for hire if ever I wanted him to (long story; don't ask), because, as he said, he did not tend to feel much guilt and he liked money. And you know what? He had a pretty good grasp on how to go about killing a person -and, unlike this fellow in Colorado, had a good plan for getting away with it. In other words, he didn't need a book-and neither does anyone else who is dead­set (no pun intended) on murder. Once more, then, our concern should not be the man who, although he is more than a little unusual, is simply exercising his First Amendment rights. We should focus our attention on the people who want to kill, and know how to kill, and do not need this book or any other to teach them how. 
But maybe I'm being too negative. After all, there have been recent signs of a willingness to accord serious pro­tection to our constitutional rights. There was this New York case a few weeks ago in which a judge excluded evidence obtained in violation of the Fourth Amendment. When faced with a case of alleged rape (or any other crime, for that matter}, many judges will find a reason to avoid applying the exclusion­ary rule of the Fourth Amendment and will allow the tainted evidence in, which almost always leads to a conviction. Not Justice Friedman. Surprisingly, but admirably, true to our constitutional mandates, Justice Friedman criticized the police officers who searched the defendant's house after 9:00 p.m. and reiterated that "(i)t is well established that a nighttime intrusion into a private residence constitutes a severe invasion of privacy." This decision came as very welcome news to me indeed. 
As did the fact that this "Communications Decency Act," as it's called, has been blocked. What a relief! I mean, I personally don't enjoy hearing about sex in every magazine I look at and every show I watch, and from what I've heard, the stuff you have access to on the internet makes these forms of "indecency" pale in comparison. But I do enjoy my right to read, listen to, and watch what I please, and for that reason I will fight adamantly to defeat any form of censorship. When I first heard about this potential law, I seriously thought George Orwell's predictions were com­ing true. And yesterday when I heard that the measure had been shot down, I felt a surge of relief. The Bill of Rights, at least for now continues to live. 
Of course, victories in some cases do not mean victories in all, but perhaps this is the type of thing you have to view in the balance, and I suppose, overall, things don't look that bad. But I warn you: if anyone trie~ to censor my Ministry show, THEN there will be hell to pay! 
Kirsten Dunne, ND '92 and ND Law '95 is working at Goldberg. Weisman & Cairo, Ltd. in Chicago 
GARRY TRUDEAU
• llOONESBURY 
MY FAVORJT8 FU~, YOU JUST POUR
ARE-YOU 
YOU THOUGH, 6 NACHOS. /TON THE. 01/PS,
Kll?P!NG? 
REAUY PI!? YOU !<fJOtu YOU 5PRINI</..C ON :::0.11!3
THEY 7UTAUY 
LIKE CAN ME-lT A JAR P&PPERS, CR4CK
RULE THEIR 
5KITTL/35? Of VEL-VUTA 01/3Ef:3l3 OP&N A /?lET
FOOl? 6ROUPl 
SPRCAP IAJ/TH A Pt<.~­
I PE-5K LAMP? &T VOILA.' 


"The liberals can under­
stand everything but people who don't understand them." 
-Anonymous 


VIEWPOINT
Wednesday, February 21, 1996 page 9 
• IN MY "EIGHBORHOOD 


A time for martyrs: Remembering Malcolm X 
On this day, thirty one years ago, the man known as Malcolm X was killed by men who were brave enough to shoot him, yet too coward enough to do the right thing. I was not even a twinkle in my mother's eye at the time and yet a man whom I've never met nor seen. a man whose voice I have never heard has color colored my political and spiritual consdousness like few others have. 
In honoring Malcolm. I give honor to all the Black brothers and sisters. pre­sent and past that have lived and died for our people and our cause. Malcolm never wanted great wealth or recogni­tion. lie rwver wanted a national holi­day in his honor. lie never spoke of popularity or notoriety. I think all Maleolm ever wanted was to wake up Ollll morning and realize that his work was done. 
You must understand, that when I spiHlk of revolution, I speak of people like Maleolm X. When I speak of free­dom. I speak of those like Malcolm X. When I speak of self-determination, self­defense, self-preservation, and self-love, I speak of Malcolm X. And when I speak my Blackrwss, I speak of Malcolm X. Ossie Davis had the difficult honor of eulogizing Malcolm, and here below is that eulogy to honor him: 
"llfml -at this final hour, in this quiet place -Harlem has come to bid farewell to one of its brightest hopes -extin­guished now, and gone from us forever. For Harlem is where he worked and where he struggled and fought -his home of homes, where his heart was, 
Cristiane Likely 
and where his people are· -and it is, therefore, most fitting that we meet once again -in Harlem -to share these last moments with him. For Harlem has ever been gracious to those who have loved her, have fought her, and have defended her honor even to the death. 
"It is not in the memory of man that this beleaguered, unfortunate, but nonetheless proud community has found a braver, more gallant young champion than this Afro-American who lies before us -unconquered still. I say the word again, as he would want me to: Afro­American -Afro-American. Malcolm, who was a master, was most meticulous in his use of words. Nobody knew better than he the power words have over minds of men. Malcolm had stopped being a 'Negro' years ago. It had be­come too small, too puny, too weak a word for him. Malcolm was bigger than that. Malcolm had become an Afro­American and he wanted -so desperate­ly -that we, that all his people, would become Afro-Americans too. There are those who will consider it their duty, as friends of the Negro people, to tell us to revile him, to flee, even from the pres­ence of his memory, to save ourselves by writing him out of the history of our turbulent times. 

"Many will ask what Harlem finds to honor in this stormy, controversial and bold young captain -and we will smile. Many will say turn away -away from this man, for he is not a man but a demon, a monster, a subverter and an enemy of the Black man -and we will smile. They will say that he is of hate -a fanatic, a racist -who can only bring evil to the cause for which you struggle ! And we will answer and say to them: Did you ever talk to Brother Malcolm? Did you ever touch him, or have him smile at you? Did you ever really listen to him? Did he ever do a mean thing? Was he ever himself associated with vio­lence or any public disturbance? For if you did you would know him. And if you knew him you would know why we must honor him : Malcolm was our manhood, our living, Black manhood! This was his 
• LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Combating liberal attacks 
W
Dear Editor: ondm of all wonders to open the editorial page of Thn Obsllrver on a weP.kP.nd when thousands of par­tmts Wllfll visiting the campus and find the worst rantings of libllralisrn wasting prPc:ious tree life. And on Friday wt~ found not only a liberal editorial, but the caped cru­sadnr of all libt~ralism himself, Dave McMahon, engaged in his rwver-ending war against all things right and Hight. 
Now, I know, being at "an institution such as Notre Dame," tlwrn really are to modernist eyes any number of people who think as "Polemanically" as I do, most of whom artl more than capable of laughing off a worthless lnftist opinion or two when they see one. But why not kirk a person when he's down? That's what people like to think Wll conservatives like to do, so to all liberalism, and to McMahon in particular, I wish to extend a genuine rnlltal-toed "Nazi" boot into your side as you lay gasping for life. 
One can see three central lines of McMahon's argu­rnnnt: asserting cultural superiority as racist, the idea of tlw Bible and Truth as cornerstones for argument being backwards and raeist, and the defense of the Columbus murals being a thin guise for hatred, i.e. racism. 
As to the first charge. Does anyone seriously believe that asserting one's cultural superiority to another is "racist'!" Blacks and whites from the South share a com­mon culturn, as do the Irish and Italians of the Northeast. Now common heritage may be formed in part from racial conditions: the South's shared culture arose in large part from slavery. To say, however, that the French had no infhwnce in the South independent of slavery is to dent the entire Cajun experience of Louisiana, an experience that Blacks and Whites alike have promoted. The point lwre is that culture defies being grouped within one race, and tlw inl1umH:e of ideas in particular creates a tran­scnndPnctl that not only spans racial abounds, but nation­al hordnrs as wnll. pointing us toward a metaphysical mality bPyond the limited grasp of human experience. 
O
rw must also raise another objection to McMahon's ltlss than stellar ddense of multiculturalism: the cul­ture whir.h advancml the notion of multiculturalism as tlw corrnd form of thought is Western eulture. To affirm multiculturalism is an implicit affirmation of the progress of' thn Wllst through to this moral high-plain. If one dnnins this development, then one cannot assert the supllriority of multicultural thought to "monocultural" thought, and the argument is therefore dead. Either way, MeMahon, you lose. 
Sncondly, Dave MeMahon likns to attack the assertion of Truth and the use of the Bible as being outdated and racist idnas that died with the Enlightenment. First, Truth. When Hight Heason speaks of "Truth," it is not speaking first and foremost of a particular thought proeess or idna. it is speaking of Jesus Christ, Son of God, Who prodairrwd llimsfJif "The way, the truth, and the light.'' lltl is the truth of Whom we Christians speak, the Cross whieh we Christians defend, and the Light which wn Christians must triumphantly and boldly bear witness to in a world filled with Pilates who unknowingly put to bloody death their Lord and savior. 
F
And then there is a further Truth, this being Divine Revelation. The preserver and promoter of this Divine Hevelation is the Church of Christ, which we Catholics identify as the Homan Catholic Church. Being Catholic, at a Catholic school, we should not look askance as some do at the Divine H.evelation of dogma and the 'Gospel, the Creed and the mystery of the sacraments, the saints and the miracles. No Christian, at the very least, denies Christ; but I grant that none of these things, not even the Holy Son of God our Savior, is a "truth" to a secular Enlightenment which demands a scientific method which no longer leads us anywhere, as philosophers of science can attest to. We do adhere to the Thomistic method, and assert an order that is, ultimately, beyond human understanding. inally, McMahon takes up the crusade of revisionist history, or so it seems, for he claims that we "miss the point" of the Columbus murals, that what is really at stake behind the murals is "a restructuring of the man­ner in which we view history.'' It is one thing to come to terms with the horrors committed to people, I admit; this must be done on both sides. Time and time again and article after article, not one conservative voice on this campus has said that the Europeans came entirely in peace. What we have said, time and time again, is that Columbus came in peace-which a reading of his dairies can attest to-save for his abhorrence of the cannibalism practiced by the Carib Tribe against their more peaceful neighbors. 
Now, as to restructuring our way of looking at history, perhaps the revisionists should be the first to do so. They are right: you cannot blanket any one group of people with a characteristic, but this is not something they prac­tice. l have yet to see a liberal confess that Indian cul­ture was not uniformly superior to the "uniformly racist' culture of Europeans (and there goes multiculturalism). Moreover, thPre is nothing more hilarious, or more pathetic, than seeing a person of European ancestry such as McMahon sit on land "taken" from the Indians, built from the "racist" thought of dead white males, and arr.o­gantly pronounce the inhumanity of those who gave him every benefit that he now possesses. 
Lastly, what is the problem with the Columbus murals? For hopefully the last time, the truth shall be spoken: They were painted with the intention of praising Father Sorin's bold missionary activity through the boldness of Columbus' missionary work. Gregori did not sit down to glorify European pillaging of a continent, he sat down and painted a man and his life reflecting another man (Fr. Sorin) and his life, in honor and praise of each other. So this is the liberalism that "guffaws" at conservatism, eh? I welcome such enemies and face the fact that liber­alism as we know it today is dead. 
ROGER ZALNARITIS 
Morrissey Hall Junior 
meaning to his people. And, in honoring him, we honor the best in ourselves. 
"Last year, from Africa, he wrote these words to a friend : 'My journey', he says, 'is almost ended, and I have a much broader scope than when I started out, which I believe will add new life and dimension to our struggle for freedom and honor and dignity in the States. I am writing these things so that you will know for a fact the tremendous sympa­thy and support we have among the African States for our Human H.ights struggle. The main thing is that we keep a United Front wherein our most valuable time and energy will not be wasted fighting each other.' However we may have differed with him -or with each other about him and his value as a man -let his going from us serve only to bring us together, now. Consigning these mortal remains to earth, the common mother of all, secure in the knowledge that what we place in the ground is no more now a man -but a seed -which, after the winter of our discontent, will come forth again to meet us. And we will know him then for what he was and is -a Prince -our own Black shining Prince ! -who didn't hesitate to die, because he loved us so." 
Now is a time for martyrs. The strug­gle must continue! 
Cristiane Likely is a senior in Pasquerilla West . 

History hurts 01ore than just Jewish people 
Dear Editor: 
I am writing in response to Brandon William's column entitled "How do we know" which ran in the February 6 issue of The Observer. 
I will let alone the false comparison between abortion and the needless deaths which occurred during the holocaust. There is, however, a point which I cannot leave alone: the insistence that the Jewish people were the lone victims of the Nazi's reign of terror. 
The line which sparks my protest reads "It 
'lA]hat we so often forget is 
V V that over 10 million non­combatants were killed by the Nazis in their concentration camps.' 
was the 'dangerously inhuman' Jews tlmt lost even their right to life, let alone dignity at the hands of the 'Superior Germans'." For starters, it was not the "Germans" who believed in the murder, of millions, but the Nazi elite, as German soldiers and citizens did not know of these atrocities. 
It is an insult to German-Americans to be associated with this horrible period of history. What we so often forget is that over 10 million non-combatants were killed by the Nazis in their concentration camps. 
History has seemed to ignore the fact that people of all faiths and cultures were brutally murdered at the hands of the Nazis. It is easy to focus on the statistieally large number of Jewish people killed, but such an examination ignores the premise that all human lives are equally worthy. 
History should remember the price paid by all humans during Ilitler's frenzied reign, as to do otherwise would be an insult to all who have died. I am in no way attempting to dis­count the number of Jewish people who were killed, but instead l u.m pleading for equal respect of all who have been put to death at the hands of an unjust power. 
GREG BAUER 
Sophomore 
Keenan Hall 

~------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­

;ACCENT
page 10 Wednesday, February 21, 1996 

nee u on a time at 

<Dn 8e6ruat] 25 from 1 to 5 p.m., cfji!bren's 6ooks miffspring 
t Stot]6ooft 8estt,a( crinb ayoung frienb anb come afong for tfje ribe... or sfj 
Magic at Madeleva 
A complete listing of storybook rooms and activities 
Room 
222 224 231 
233 238 239 
241 
243/244 245/246 247 
249 
348 
349 
351 352 353 354 
356 
Sponsoring Group El Campito Learning·center Saint Mary's College Department of Mathematics 
Book 
Rainbow Fish iMVThe Missing Piece 
Sail]t Mary's College 
ometimes I Feel Department of Psychology Like a· Mouse 
Saint Mary's College Polar Bear, Polar Bear Department of Education What Do You Hear? 
Celebrity Reader Room A variety of books read 
Saint Mary's College The Mixed-Up Chameleon Department of Biology 
SNAP Program (Special Needs The Mitten and Abilities Preschool Program) South Bend Community School Corporation 
Saint Mary's College Ireland Program 
Saint Mary's College South Bend Alumnae Club 
The Sleeping Giant Snowballs 
Saint.Mary's College Those Mean, Downright, Student Nursing Association Disgusting, Yet Invisible 
PACE Program (Preschool Assisting Children's Ed.) Elkhart Community Schools Preschool 
Saint Mary's College~Arts Club 
Center for Hearing~.Speech and Deaf Services Saint· Mary's College-Speech Pathology Club 
St. Joseph County Public Library 
Germs 
The Hungry Bear, The Little Mouse and the Big, Red, Ripe, Strawberry 
Mouse Paint & Color Dance 
Brown Bear, Brown Bear, What Do You See? 
The Library 
Saint Mary's College~Department of The Giving Tree Business Administration and Economics 
Hansel Head Start There's a Dinosaur in the Park 
Saint Mary's College The Knight Whose Department of English Armour Didn't Squeak 
Community Coordinated Child Care Ten Little Rabbits 


By RACHEL TORRES 
Editor

''C1)ooks create worlds which we enter to learn, to feel, to simply, to have fun." Co-sponsored by Saint Mary's 
the Early Childhood Development Center, the Storybook scheduled for Sunday, February 25, promises to provide 
for area children and their families. 
The mission of the festival is twofold, as it seeks to introduce young the benefits of reading and to educate parents about continuing home. Targeting such a young age group is essential in order to foster reading appreciation at an early age. 
Already in its second year, the festival premiered in 1994 as a part of S Mary's sesquicentennical celebration and proved to be a great success, drawing over 1,000 people. Planners for this year's event expect over two thousand participants and will require a support staff of over 300 volunteers. 
"For the sesquicentennial, we wanted to do a service project that would benefit the Notre Dame/ Saint Mary's community as well as the South Bend community, and coincide with our mission of education," states Patti Valentine, Director of Public Relations at Saint Mary's. 
Meanwhile, Terri Kosik, Executive Director of ECDC was already interested in creating a "community collaboration effort," including Notre Dame/ Saint Mary's ECDC families, Saint Mary's clubs and departments, area agencies and businesses, and children with special needs. As the concept designer of this festival, Kosik envisioned an "old-fashioned fun fair" of sorts where children could go from room to room, open the door, and find a surprise wait­ing. 
"Here," she explains, "every room becomes a book and the ehild 
whole new world." 
Eaeh "new world" is one of eighteen reading rooms sponsored by S 
clubs, departments and other community agencies. Each sponsor selects 
present, and decorates a room to coincide with the theme of that book. 
sponsors present activities for the children that relate to the book. 
In addition to the eighteen reading rooms, performances will take place Auditorium including professional storytellers and dancers, and a room will be featured. Saint Mary's alumna, ECDC parent, and WNDU Maureen McFadden will be among other local celebrities who will read 
Special performances will in Made/eva. Stop b 
Carroll Auditorium Performances 
Times 1:15 
2:00 
2:45 
3:30 
4:15 
Performers 

Connie Anderson Singer/Songwriter Carole Walton -Stor The Saint Mary's Col Dance Workshop Kathleen Zmuda ­
Storyteller The Story Peddlers ­Kathie Myers 


;ACCENT

Wednesday, February 21, 1996 page 11 

I 
fife in Saint C£ltat}(s C£1tabefet'a~afffor SC£lt<C's seconb annua( 
1 
' up JJOurseffanb refit'e tfjose magica( moments curfeb up witfj a cfassic or two. 
children throughout the day. 
Cindy llnstad, Program Director of the Saint Mary's ECDC, spoke to each sponsor ow. and and hnlpnd devise the activities they chose. "Everybody was really prepared and ngn and had a good idna of what book they wanted to present." Hestead has helped the chil­F1~stival, drnn at ECDC creatn some of the decorations that will transform the rooms of 'ust that Madnlnva nnxt Sunday. 
ildnm to Kosik says that by using milk cartons, paper bags, and paper towel tubes among 1g in the other simple materials, the festival will offer "developmentally appropriate art ~lwalthy nx(wriencns that will allow children to work on projects using their own creativity." Kosik maintains that activities like these will allow children and parents alike to turn off the TV and open a book. Everybody can take part in the 
Their book, "Polar Bear. Polar Bear, What Do You Hear?" will be read in a room transformed into a wintery scene. Bncause the book focuses on auditory senses, the volunteers will facilitate activities that will include clapping hands at certain parts, and making 
noisemakers with rice, beans, and paper plates. 
Elaine Licata, Saint Mary's senior and President of the Education Club, sees the festival as something that will show the children to "look at reading in a different 

way." Hepresenting the English Club, Ann Papreck states, "I en­joy n•ading so much and I want to help othnr kids to enjoy it as much as I do." ~~ntnr a Tlwir fmttured book, "The Knight Whose Armor Didn't Squeak," is the inspiration for a nwdinval theme. The volunteers in that room will get into the true spirit of the 
t Mary's day by dressing in costume. · book to "Many children don't have the opportunity to have people read to them," Paprick Jso, tlw said. "Since the parents will also be taking part, the Festival can help establish a 
pallnrn of reading in the horne." 
Carroll As an added perk, each family will receive information about the importance of nmding n~ading at a young age, as well as handouts from different agencies about the ser­andwr viees tlwy provide. Most importantly, all children who participate will receive a 
ories to quality book of their own to take home to start them on a lifetime of literacy. 

/so be given in Carroll Auditorium to hear these famous folks: 

eller 
ge 
3ob & 
Celebrity Reader Room Cindy Ward, WSBT News Anchor 1:15-1 :45 Chris Petrucelli, University of Notre Dame Women's Soccer Coach 1 :45-2:15 Tim Durham, M.D., Pediatrician, South Bend Clinic 2:15-2:45 The Honorable Roland W. Chamblee, Jr., Superior Court Judge 2:45-3:15 Maureen McFadden, WNDU News Anchor 3:15-3:45 Captin Ed Friend, South Bend Police Officer 3:45-4:15 Sara Quie, Ballerina and Dance Teacher 4:15-4:45 
• ACCENT LITERARY REVIEW 


Bridging the gap: Ivan Doig's 'English Creek' 
ENGLlSI-l CREEK 

By JOSH PICHLER A(;cent Literary Critic 
I
n 1939, the United States was in the midst of the Industrial 
Revolution, and on the brink of World War II. However, not every part 
of the nation was caught up in these events. Northern Montana wa.s 
still largely uninhabited, suitable only for the stout of heart. In "English Creek," Ivan Doig paints the Montana landscape through the eyes of fourteen~year~old Jick McCaskill. The result transfixes the reader, and establishes Doig as one of America's premier authors. 
The McCaskills are second·generation Scottish settlers. living out the dreams of their ancestors. Jick's father. Angus, is the ranger of fictitious Two Medicine National Forest. He is a carefree lover of life. interested in everything. and fearful only of the fire season brought on by dry sum­mers. He and wife Lisabeth are raising Jick and his older brother Alec. Jick takes the reader through the tumultuous summer of 1939, which begins with Alec announcing his plans of foregoing college to marry his girlfriend Lorena and live the life of a·ranch hand. It concludes with a massive forest fire that threatens Two Medicine's very existtmce. The summer is also one of maturing for Jick, who realizes that life is not a two-dimensional experience; rather, it consists of layers, all of which add up to his own existence. To our good fortune, Jick takes us along as he works to unpeel his family's past. 
As Jick uncovers his family's history, one becomes aware of Dolg's bril­liance as an author. In telling one story, he hints at many others below the surface. Jick's weekend of riding with Stanley Meixall, a hopeless drunk. unexpectedly leads to an account of the pivotal events of Angus' early rangering days. Lisabeth's intriguing past, one she discusses warily, is introduced as the result of a newspaper article Jick reads concerning a cross-country wagon ride she and her brother took as children. Jick's curiosity about his family is shared equally by the reader, who suddenly realizes that Doig's Seemingly slow prose is miles ahead of him/her. 
As Jick's simple world is opening, "English Creek" is forced to withdraw from itself and acknowledge the onslaught of World War II. Nowhere is this made more poignant than with Alec's decision, prompted by his dreams of marriage being crushed, to enlist in the service. Racing against his brother's impending departure, Jick'struggles to bridge the void between his estranged brother and family. 
The second installment of a trilogy, "English Creek" leaves many ques· tions unanswered. Regardless, it stands by itself as a literary masterpiece. As one critic notes, it is the "real West, seen through the eyes of a real writer." If seeking a journey to a unique America, allow lvan Doig and "English Creek" to be your guide. 
.. 
I 
I I 
page 12 The Observer • SPORTS Wednesday, February 21, 1996
I I 
I •Nfl 
I 
I 
I I MVP Brown signs with Raiders 
I By ANNE M. PETERSON Sanders, who has juggled next two years.
I 
Associated Press football and buseball, was Brown said he hopes to pro­
I 
planning to concentrate exclu­vide some leadership, espe­

I 
OAKLAND sively on the Cowboys next cially during rough times, as it

I 
Cornerback Larry Brown, season. did in the second half of last

I 
so. who

I whose worth on the free-agent And Smith, who was side­season, when the Raiders lost d · , stole theI market soared after he being lined for all but the Cowboys' their last six games after attempt with 4.4 secondsI voted the Super Bowl's most 1995 season opener with an opening the season 8-2. 
and went in for the dunk

I valuable player, is leaving the Achilles tendon injury, was "I think the Raiders' poten­
I that put away the game.
Dallas Cowboys for the expected to return. tial is as a Super Bowl team,"
I Kentucky 84, Alabama 65 
Oakland Raiders. he said. 
I Tony Pelk scored seven
Brown, who had two That left Brown open to ~'When I got to the Cowboys,

I points !luring &-• 26-6 run that
interceptions in the Cowboys' offers. they hadn't made the playoffs
I carded No. 2 Kentucky to an
27-17 victory over the Brown would not say yet." 
84-'65 victory Tuesday overPittsburgh Steelers, would not whether Dallas offered as Brown said "the Raiders are

~ 
Alabama and its 38th

disclose details of the contract, much as the Raiders ultimate­a very confident football team. 
Southeastern Conference title. 

except to say it was for more ly did. They know what they are Kentucky (23-1,··13-0), seek­
than one year. "I wanted to get it behind capable of, they just haven't ing to become the first team
"There's a point in your life me," he said. "It wasn't all gotten it done." 
since Alabama in 1956 to go

when you have to realize it's about money." On Monday, Oakland lost of­final.u.. ,., ..~,.,. unbeaten in league play, wonon. think I Brown, 26, played a lot last fensive tackle Greg Skrepcnak
time to move I · ·· 72-66 with11.5 seC*/ its ~2nd consecutive game.
came to that page," Brown season, finishing with six to the Carolina Panthers. The .; le:ft when• Preston Delk's 3-pointer started the
said Tuesday at a news con­interceptions, including two unrestricted free agent had 
hit a 3-pointer for spurt and gave Kentucky a 19­ference. for touchdowns. spent five years with the Island (15-9, 7-6). 14 lead with 10:58 left in theThe Cowboys were not ex­Brown first attracted atten­Raiders. 
Travieso missed the half. Derek Anderson cappedpected to re-sign Brown tion in 1991 when he went But the Raiders did hold on of a one-and-one to the run with a layup off anbecause of salary cap restric­from 12th-round draft pick out to running back Harvey . . . . }lam~ another c~ance Alabama turnover for a 46w20tions and the available corner­of Texas Christian to starter. Williams, who rushed for · ; 1 seconds left. .... lead in the opening minute of
back combination of Deion He went on to start on Super 1,114 yards and nine touch­

Rhode Island's first in. the second half. 
Sanders and Kevin Smith. Bowl-winning teams over the downs last season. 
out 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Cenrer. 
Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cenrs per character per day, including all spaces. 
Classifieds 
BIG EAST TICKETS WANTED ROOMS FOR RENT IN PRIVATE Need Seton Hall GAs x2895 I told you not to admit him. Little girl standing on the corner TOP$$$ PAID HOME. I must be allowed to speak. today's your lucky day for sureNOTICES (800)269-5849 VERY CLOSE TO NO. He must be allowed to speak. alright 
IDEAL FOR SMC-ND EVENTS. PERSONAL You weak-minded fool! He's using Me and my buddy we're from New What are you going to do, now that NATIONAL PARKS HIRING­272-6194. an old Jedi mind trick. York City you (almost) have a NOTRE DAME Positions are now available at 0D0D0D0D0D0D0D0D0D0D0 You will bring Captain Solo and the we got 200 dollars we want to rock DEGREE? Business opportunity National Parks, Forests & Wildlife MCKINLEY TERRACE & QUALITY COPIES, QUICKLY!!! Wookiee to me. all night workshop, Thur, Feb 22, 8 PM, for Preserves. Excellent benefits + MISHAWAKA 3 BDRM HOMES. THE COPY SHOP Your mind powers will not work on Girl you're looking at two big those who QUALIFY. 273-3804 for bonuses! Call: 1-206-971-3620 AVAIL NOW.272-6551 LaFortune Student Center me, boy. spenders details. ext.N55845 Phone 631-COPY Nevertheless, I'm taking Captain why the world don't know what me 
BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY 0o0o0o0o0o0o0o0o0o0o0 Solo and his friends. You can either and Wayne might do TEACH ENGLISH ABROAD -219-291-7153 profit by this ... or be destroyed! It's Our pa's each own one of the World 
Friendships are Forever. Make up to $25-$45/hr. teaching FAX IT FAST!!! your choice. But I warn you not to Trade Centers Come see Melanie Griffith, Demi basic conversational English HOMES FOR RENT Sending & Receiving underestimate my powers. for a kiss an' a smile I'll give mine Moore, and Rosie O'Donnell in abroad. Japan, Taiwan, and 232-2595 at Master Luke, you're standing on ... all to you 
• NOW AND THEN • S.Korea. Many employers provide THE COPY SHOP There will be no bargain, young Fri., Sat. 8:00 & 10:30 room & board + other benefits. No Old studebaker home, LaFortune Student Center Jedi. I shall enjoy watching you die. Sunday, 2:00 teaching background or Asian lan­new interior, close to downtown. Our Fax# (219) 631-FAX1 Beaver Falls, PA-the home to two Cushing Auditorium, $2.00 guages required. For more informa­safe, 4 bdrm, 2 story. Perfect lor 3-FAX IT FASTI!! Becca Trantowski of sports' most charismatic figures ************************************** tion call: (206)971-3570 ext.J55843 4 students + appl. $625/ mo. 289-ever : Broadway Joe and Dante. 
77281v msg Have you ever been in love without MARDI GRAS MARDI GRAS SPRING BREAK! $ Cruise Ships Hiring! Students knowing his/her name? Is FOOD, FUN AND LOVE With only 1 week to live, DON'T Needed! $$$+Free Travel there a "south quad god/goddess" is available Friday the 23rd at BLOW IT! (Caribbean, Europe, Hawaii!) NEED A PLACE FOR THE SUM­or "dining hall babe" in SUB's MARDI GRAS PARTY! Hey, maybe Allen Iverson wants to Organize group-TRAVEL FREE Seasonal/Permanent, No Exper. MER? COLLEGE PARK CONDO­your life? Have you ever been Entertainment for the evening will join the Bowling Club. I hear he Jamaica/Cancun $399 Bahamas Necessary. GDE. 919-929-4398 ext MINIUMS-SUBLETIING FOR called "obsessed" or a "stalker" be provided by has a true fondness for the lanes. $359 Florida $109 C1114 MID-MAY THROUGH AUGUST. because of these unrequited pur­Luster, Tacklebox He's noTeenwolf though. But real­FREE INFO packet. Call Sunsplash CALL JEN, NICOLE, OR SARAH suits? Love can hurt, especially if its and Tweak! ly, who is? 1-800-426-7710 SUMMER CAMP POSITIONS: AT 273-1738 one-sided, so call us at Accent, 1-All for the low cost of $1 in the 
Make a difference in the life of a 4540. We're lonely, too. LaFortune Ballroom! Hey Joelle, change your hair to Spring Break Bahamas Party child! Summer therapy camp for ..No boiled rabbits, please .... MARDIGRAS MARDIGRAS sexy orange. Cruise! 7 Days $279! Includes 15 handicapped children. Located on 
FOR SALE

Meals & 6 Free Parties! Great shore of Lake Superior near Big THE NERD IS COMING!!! Your welcome Toad. Beaches/Nightlife! Leaves From Ft. Bay, MI. Positions available for hey gladiator ... Feb 28, 29, March 1 Lauderdale! http://www.spring­Counselors, Waterfront, Instructors Mac SE/30 five months and i still like to Notre Dame Student Players breaktravel.com 1-800-678-6386 for Nature/Arts & Crafts/Recreation, 100MB HD, 10 R.A,M watch you juggle your pectorals ... Present When are we getting fitted for our 
Nurses, Therapists, Food Service, With Keyboard and Mouse can't wait till saturday ... The Nerd green tuxedos. We're too classy for Cancun & Jamaica Spring Break and Auxiliary. Must be enthusiastic, Excellent Condition! $200 pooh by Larry Shue just green jackets. We're going Specials! 111% Lowest Price responsible, and love children. June Brad x1440 high class this year baby. I'm tellin' Guarantee! 7 Nights Air & Hotel 16 through August 11. Salary, room Becca Trantowski Hail Mighty Stonecutters! ya, watch out for Jumbo Ozaki. I From $429! Save $100 On & board, and experience of lifetime FOR SALE-MACINTOSH APPLE heard he's slimmed down and Food/Drinks! http://www.spring­provided. Call or write for applica­POWERBOOK 520C, only 2-3 Who controls the British Pound? ready to bring Amen Corner to its' breaktravel.com tion and information. Bay Cliff months old, includes Clarisworks Who keeps the metric system knees. Then again ... 1-800-678-6386 Health Camp, 310 W. Washington, 4.0 software and a COLOR STYLE­I. Edward T. Bassani, hereby down? 
Suite 300, Marquette, Ml 49855, WRITER 2400 PRINTER. Only announce my estrangement from We do! We do! Smalls, make 'em cry. Eye of the Spring Break! Panama City! 8 Days (906)228-5770. $1500 o.b.o. For more info. call SUGAR through the Lenten season Who keeps Atlantis off the maps? Tiger, kid, Eye of the Tiger (that's Room With Kitchen $119! Walk to Jarvis@ X2159 due to the unbearable weight and Who keeps the Martians under my best Mick impression, sorry). Best Bars! 7 Nights In Key West WANTED: stress to which SUGAR subjects wraps? $259! Cocoa Beach Hilton (Great 2 Tickets to MacBeth, any night JUDAY CREEK gem. me. SUGAR may be sweet but too Wedo!Wedo! Playing all weekend at Cushing : Beaches-Near Disney) $169! Call Mike at 4-0959 Well-maintained, 4-bedroom ranch much SUGAR can weigh you down. Who holds back the electric car? The Best of John Shingler's Daytona $139! http://www.spring­with a 17 x 25 home office Who made Steve Guttenberg a Cheerleading Career (he was cap­breaktravel.com. Wanted: Student skilled in the use & 3-car garage. HOW MANY DAYS TILL WE GET star? tain you know). After the film, 1-800-678-6386 of computers to teach computer $154,900. OUT OF HERE? We do! We do! Johnny will be offering a free clinic 
techniques to unskilled computer Call Karen 272-3653. to any and all interested (males user. May work some nights and Becca Trantowski GOVERNMENT CAREER DAY welcome).
[LosT & FOUND I 
weekend. Joseph L Matthews, 1987 Honda Civic Wagon Learn about careers with federal home phone 288-2978, office 4 Wheel Drive, Manual and state government. Becca Trantowski LOST: gold rope chain necklace phone 288-0629. Transmission, A/C, AM/FM WE ALL PHOTOGRAPH SO ALL STUDENTS WELCOME! 
somewhere on North Quad or by $ 2800 or Best Offer WELL Thursday, February 22 so, you think it's smooth to whistle the JACC on either 211 0 or 2111 . If Call (219)282-3518. Contact: Shopon Mollah CCE/Lower Level, Noon-4pm at girts in Nieuwland late at night found PLEASE call x1334. Free information. # 631-4573 FREE FOOD! FREE FOOD! but can you bend a fork yet? 
Earn money from your dormitory Jazz nile in LaFortune Ballroom Tim Corbett is the real I lost my green, JanSport backpack room! Wed. 2121 7pm -9pm El Presidents! 5A will prevail in hoops, baby!! 
TICKETS 

at Acoustic Cafe last Thursday. Come listen to the Tuesday Night Offering a $10 reward lor informa­VOLUNTEERS Needed for Reins of Jazz Band & two combos! Becca Trantowski tion leading to the return of my bag. Life Thursdays 2122-4/4 271-8317 I DESPARATELY NEED TWO Dancing, Music. & Sometimes short is good Call Scott x0652 GA'S FOR SETON HALL CALL FREE FOOD! FREE FOOD! Timmy Naehring and a certain dark, 
PART-TIME PROFESSIONAL DAN AT3543 bald-headed, earringed first base­SECRETARY NAZZ/NAZZ/NAZZ/NAZZ/NAZZ man aren't too bad either. MISSING -a Siegfried Hall resi·
WANTED 

COMPUTER LITERATE I have MacBeth tix for the Sat. mati­Hey campus bands!!! dent; brown hair. green eyes; 
SUSAN 217-83-76 nee. Will trade it for Thur. or Fri. Be sure to pick up the application answers to Kelly, Kel, Duff or "Hey, ND/SMC/Holy Cross Students Call 273-3924 for NAZZ, the campus battle of the God, they're going to be good. we're going to the Linebacker!" If Part-time work. $10.25/start. bands, in the S.U.B. office! An you see her tell her to come home.
FOR RENT 

Flexible hours around classes. All application, entry fee and three You can have your pixy stix story. majors. Scholarships/Internships. Do you have Seton Hall (Feb. 24) song tape is due on February 26th! have a picture and a pair of phat, Now that I've discovered the CALL 282-2357. IRISH CO. B&B REGISTRY GA's? Please call Michelle 4-4530! Get moving today! dope, funky-fresh windpants. "Homicide" homepage, I might 
Stay at the "MOOSE KRAUSE NAZZ/NAZZ/NAZZ/NAZZ/NAZZ never get any homework done. CRUISE SHIPS NOW HIRING­HOUSE" or other approved homes. I need 2 Thurs. Macbeth tix. Devlin and Fagan-Earn up to $2,000+/month working Grad. -Football games Call Dan 4-3582. Thanks for a weekend on Cruise Ships or Land-Tour com­219-277-7003 John Valentin and Wil Cordero of shameless debauchery and fine How many days until the end of the 
.-panies. World travel. Seasonal & Do you have Thursday tickets to comprise baseball's most potent literature in New Orleans. At least Star Wars reign of terror? How full-time employment available. No Macbeth, but would rather go on middle infield combination since the we had a car to sleep in. many days 'till you people have to expe,,t-nce necessary. For more Rm for Sum/Fall '96, 5-min drive Friday? Solution: call Mark at 4-days of Jackie Guitierrez and Jerry get a life? information call1-206-971-3550 $250 incl. util & extras! 1-4809 or 1662 and exchange up to three tick· Remy. -Tyler (that guy who drives off the ext.C55843 232-7175 ets. road) Collective 5th floor shout outs 
WeJne~day, February 21, 1996 The Observer· SPORTS page 13 
• .=L 


Moon abuse trial continues over wife's objections 
By MICHAEL GRACZYK 
Assoriatcd Press 
HICIIMOND, Texas 

l;olieia Moon eoneeded today in tho spousal abuse trial of her husband. NFL quarterback Warrnn Moon, that she passed up sevoral opportunitins to d1~tail what happennd during a July 1H ineidnnt at the couple's hornfl. 
Slw had tostified earlier that prosm;utors never asked for her sidn of tho story before taking thn misdemeanor assault ease to trial. 
Hnturning to the witness stand for a third day, Mrs. Moon at first said she didn't know when asknd by prosecu­tor Mike Elliott whother she had at least a dozen chances to tell her vllfsion of' events. 
Wlwn pressed, shn :Hlmitted passing up dutnc!~s to tell the compleW story to investigators, to the media at news confer­ence three days after the inci­dent and later. when she met with prosecutors. 
"I had an opportunity," Mrs. Moon said. 
On Monday, she said her hus­band was willing to accept a plea bargain from Fort Bend County prosecutors to keep resulting bad publicity from additionally harming their four children. 
"I could not face myself in the mirror every morning with him aecepting an offer with him knowing the true story," she said. "I couldn't accept that. I couldn't live with myself." 
She said discussions about whether to accept the plea bar­gain continued up to a week ago, even as a six-person jury was selected to hear the case. 
"Warren was ready to accept," she said. "1 knew the lies the media were saying. I 

presents 

Rev. Joseph Walter, (.S.C. 
With information on MEDICAL SCHOOLS 

6:30 pm Thursday, Feb. 22 Room 127, Nieuwland Science Hall 
Elections lor next year's oHicers will take place following the meeting. 
• 1995-96 Sl '.!\SON • 

Pl :\HNC :\[ W:\SIII\CI\.."1\i I hLL ON Tiilii\SD.W, fiiii\U.\1\Y 22, FRID.x,, FII\RUARY nAND SAruRtJ.\), FuiRU:\RY 2-1-(MAnNri AND r:vrNING) M·bltRC\IW ,\ND Vb:\ Owms uu.: 631·8128 
sllllllbllb<Oll'l{'t(~ ~J>Y lll ga·ant f!l'om dlie P.&ul ~JL &ntfll Ban·~D&Il'& JH('nkrrls \lisiititng Sdwlia!l' Series anJ tli11.e J[nstihu{l(~ [~oil' §,choLn.ll'shiiJll> ill1l the Lii1bclt'all Alt'ts, 
was not about to walk around saying I'm a Christian woman, knowing in my heart the things they were printing out there were not true." 
Mrs. Moon, who pleaded with prosecutors to dismiss the case, blamed herself for the heated argument July 18 that escalat­ed into violence and led to misdemeanor assault charges against Moon. 
"What do I have to gain by making up something," she said. "My family has been drug through the sewer. We have lived through shame." 
Moon could face up to a year in jail and a $4,000 fine if con­victed of the charge. 
."What are we teaching our children if we allow them to in­timidate us?" she said she told Moon of the plea bargain pro­posals. "Warren is innocent. However difficult it may be, we're all going to have to sacri­flee." 

Mrs. Moon said the couple's marriage was rocky at the time of the incident, triggered by Moon's insistence that she sur­render credit cards, and that Moon had not been living at their Missouri City home. 
His multi-million-dollar sign­ing by the Houston Oilers in 1984, after a successful stint with the Canadian Football League, made him pro foot­ball's highest-paid player at the time and gave the couple instant riches. 
Mrs. Moon said their mar­riage began to deteriorate because she chose to raise their then three young children while her husband was gone all the time. To combat depression, she went to shopping malls, ringing up $160,000 in credit card expenses and bank with­drawals and angering her hus­band. 





HIJipJ 

li~8y 
# 21 
"It would be $5,000 here, $2,500 there," she said. "We had so much money in the bank I didn't think it would be that big of a deal." 
When Moon audited their ac­counts and found the expendi­tures, he wanted her credit cards. 
Their financial disputes led to three instances of violence, in­cluding one in which she said she attacked him with a mop and they wound up on the noor, punching and fighting. 
She then filed for divorce, al­though the couple reconciled quickly, the petition was dis­missed and Moon never was served with the suit. 
"In my heart of hearts, I didn't want a divorce," she said. 
Mrs. Moon said she started all the violence, often by tossing something at her husband to get his attention. 
"He's just not the kind of per­son to get excited about some­thing," she said. "It aggravates me." 
The July argument included her throwing a candle holder at Moon, hitting him in the back. She said she was aiming at his head. 
Although she admitted Moon grabbed and choked her during the fight in her bedroom, she believed he never meant to hurt her and suggested her acrylic fingernails may have been re­sponsible for scratches around her neck and shoulder area. 
A Bexar County medical examiner, however, said Monday the injuries were not typical of self-inflicted wounds. 
GARETH ARMSTRONG WILL PRESENT I-lAND IN HAND TO IIELL: AN AcToR's PERSPECTIVE o~ RICHARD Ill AND MACBETH TUESDAY, FEBR.LIAR.Y 20 AT 4:30P.M. AT WASHINGTON HALL 
jOANNA FoSTER WILL PRESENT FRoM THE SNovv TO Tl IE SuN: THE PoETRY oF Al\NA AKHMATOVA AND GRACE NJCHOLS WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 21 AT 4:30P.M. Ar WASHINGTON HALL 
SPO~SORED BY ~OTRE D~\1E COI\'[VlU:\ICATION A:\D THEATRE 
-

page 14 
The Observer • SPORTS Wednesday, February 21, 1996 

Sanders drops baseball to focus on football 
By DENNE H. FREEMAN 

Associated Press 
DALLAS 

Deion Sanders is going to be a full-time football player this year, but said today he didn't rule out playing baseball again. 
"I made this decision for the love of football, my family and for the city of Dallas," he said. "Now I can find out just how good a football player I can be playing in two positions." 
The Cowboys' $35 million man will go through all the team's minicamps and training camp in Austin in July, concen­trating on offense. 
"I want to find out just how good I can be on offense once I get down my timing, the routes and the steps you need to have," he said. 
Sanders, who wants to spend more time on the home front, just returned from the first vacation he'd ever had with his wife and two children. 
"Normally, I would be leaving for (baseball) training camp right now and be gone from my family fpr six weeks," he said. 
"It's great just being here and 

• SPORTS BRIEFS 
Jazz Dance: A Jazz Dance class will be offered on Monday and Wednesday from 6:30 ~ 7:45 in Rockne Rm. 219. All levels are web come, but space is limited. You must register in advance at the RecSports office and the fee is $30. For more information, call 1-6100. Open to all NO students. 
Intercollegiate Bowling: Any students of Saint Mary's or Notre Dame who are interested in collegiate bowl­ing competition. please con~ tact Jason 4-1065. 
Women's Lacrosse: Practice schedule change beginning February 20 and will now be Tuesday and Thursday at 10:15 p.m. Questions? Call Allison at 239-7924. 
Drop-In Volleyball: RecSports will be sponsoring Drop-In Volleyball every Tuesday night this semester. Play will be from 8-11 p.m. in the Joyce Center. Open to all students, faculty and staff. 
Downhill Ski Trip: RecSports will be sponsoring a ski trip to Cannonsburg, MI 
-on Sunday, February 25)';' The fee for the trip is $30.00 and it includes lift ticket, ski rental and transportation. The bus departs the library circle at 11 a.m. and returns at 8 p.m. The registration deadline is Thursday; February 22. 
Volleyball Tournatnent: RecSports will be sponsoring a Co-Ree Volleyball Tournament on Saturday~ March 2, from 10 a.m.-4 p.m: The registration deadline is February 29. Play will take place in the Joyce Center Fieldhouse. For more info call1-6100. 
lnterhall Soccer: 

All off-campus women interested in playing interhall soccer please contact Bridget at 273-2284. 
dropping my kids off to school every day." 
Sanders said his baseball earnings wouldn't have matched the $2.5 million he made last year playing for the Cincinnati Reds and San Francisco Giants. 
"I would have had to take a pay cut playing baseball, but I've got some business ventures that can make up for that," said Sanders, speaking from his posh "Prime Time 21" night­club in north Dallas. 
Cowboys owner Jerry Jones was delighted with Sanders' de­cision. 
"We are committed to mak­ing him a full-time, two posi­tion-player," he said. "We understand the risks, but we're going for it." 
Jones and coach Barry Switzer have been trying for months to persuade Sanders to give up baseball -at least for one season -to let his body recover from the wear and tear of being a full-time two-sport athlete. 
His Dallas debut was delayed last fall because of surgery to repair an ankle injury sus­tained while playing baseball. 

Next season, the Cowboys will need Sanders to be healthy and available for every game because they are thin at cor­nerback and could use another wide receiver. 
Dallas' defensive backfield may be in trouble because Kevin Smith is recovering from a torn Achilles tendon, and Clayton Holmes, who is sus­pended by the league for drug abuse, was recently cut. 
The Cowboys need another wide receiver because Cory Fleming never panned out, and he, too, was recently cut. 
Kevin Williams flourished late in the season as a second receiver, but he could be more of a factor working out of the slot. 
Sanders saw limited time at receiver last season and showed flashes of potential. He scored on a 21-yard reverse in the NFC playoffs against Philadelphia and caught a pass that led to Dallas' first score in 

Just in case you decide to buy the books this semester. 

It's everywhere you want to be: 
the Super Bowl. 
Sanders can easily walk away from baseball because he's an outfielder without a team. The Giants allowed him to become a free agent by not offering him arbitration. 
One issue that Sanders had to resolve before putting baseball on hold was his contract with Nike. However, the shoe com­pany was heavily involved with the Cowboys, so the two sides likely will be able to cut a deal. 

WcJncsday, Febrary 21, 1996 The Observer • SPORTS 
nation's top defenses. upset in the CCHA this season. Uriek broke a scoreless tie However, as the case has been

Hockey 
with 16:21 remaining in the all season, the Irish broke first period when he received a down at the critical time. 

continued from page 20 
pass from senior defenseman MSU was a worthy recipient against tlw heavily favored foe. Davide Dal Grande and of the collapse. But just whnn tlw ehampagnn slapped the puck past Spartan The Spartans finally dis­had l>nnn taken off ien, a wheel goaltender Chad Alban for his played their first place mettle, fnll ofT. and the Irish came to a 11th goal of the season. reeling off three unanswered quick erash. Dhadphale extended the lead goals before Notre Dame knew 
Miehigan State forwards to 2-0 when the Irish convert­what hit them. The result was Tony Tuzzolino and Hichard ed on their second power play another missed opportunity by Knyns along with dnfenseman opportunity of the evening. the 8-22-3 Irish. 
Chris Bogas naeh found the Following an MSU score, "Before the game, we talked haek of the net in the final Dhadphale got into the act about starting strong, and we 3::n as the first place Spartans again, notching his 12th goal were able to do that tonight," turned a 4-1 deficit into a 4-4 of the year to help Notre Dame said Poulin. Notrn Damn soh story. build a 3-1 cushion. "The pieces are corning but 
"We had a tremendous "Both Urick and Dhadphale at different times. We know amount of positives occur have come on strongly for us the playoffs are in our hands tonight," said Poulin. "We at the offensive end," said this weekend, and we know we wnrtl able to take away the junior defensernan Ben Nelsen. can do it." 
middl11 from them, and for the "They have given us a lift first time in a while, we took oiTensively even when some of 

Hoops

advantagtl of our power play the other guys have struggled. opportunities." It's important that they keep it 
continued from page 20

In the first game without up through these last few leading scorer Jamie Ling, games." 
Said McGraw, "She got two

freshmen Aniket Dhadphale When senior right wing Brett 
fouls early, and we kept her outand Brian Urick picked up the Bruininks gave the Irish a 4-1 for a while. Her knee's beenslaek in a big way, eomhining advantage with 11:30 left, it 

bothering her, but she was

for thrne goals in the first two seemed Notre Dame was springy tonight." 
periods against one of the primed to pull off the biggest 
As they did to Poor in the first 

·a 
) j>.p:cil 

The Observer/Kevin Klau Brian Urick and fellow freshman Aniket Dhadphale combined for three goals in the first two periods as the Irish stormed to an early lead. 
half. the Irish continuously hold them off at the end. pounded the ball into Gaither. Mia11,; could get no closer than At one point, she had 11 points ten points, and the Irish fin­in a row and appeared unstop-ished them off by making their pable. Her invincibility was free throws down the stretch. evident when she took an alley-With the victory, Notre Dame oop pass from Jeannine has clinched third place in the Augustin and laid it in over the Big East, and a bye in the first entire Hurricane front line. round of the conference tour-
Gaither finished with 24 nament. points and 12 boards for the Commented the overjoyed game. Poor ended the game McGraw, "By clinching third with 17 points and 9 rebounds, place, we don't have to worry while Morgan contributed 22 about the UConn game" as a points. make-or-break situation. 
The Hurricanes made a last "It's good for us because it run, but the Irish were able to gives us a bye." 
FREE ADMISSION WEDNESDAY 
Featuring: 
Old School Stepping,Disco Inferno & Ice House Party 
• 
With lady Melo-"0", Spinning your favorite Old School, Jungle Boogie, Disco, and Blues music for a blast into the past. 

• 
Wear your dancing & party shoes! 

• 
Cash Prizes to the best dance teams. 

• 
Free Admission All Night -Doors Open at 9 PM 


Band Line-Up: Thurs.: Zen Lunatics and Fri.: Artie & the. Artichokes 

We have started to take applications for next year. 
-

Furnished apartments­swimming pool-jacuzzi­tennis, volleyball, & basketball courts­24 hour laundry-shuttle bus­professional management. 
*Apartments available for your selection.* 
For more informa~ion cal/272-1441. 


page 16 The Observer • SPORTS Wednesday, February 21, 1996
I I I 

I 
I 




i Braves prepare title defense, Jose arrives late 
~ 
Associated Press 
t 
For years, Tom Glavine and

I 
his teammates liked the start of spring training except for one thing -having to talk about
I 
why they weren't World Series
I 
champions yet. 
I 
No such problems for the

I 
Atlanta Braves on Tuesday
I 
I 
I when they held their first full I workout in West Palm Beach, Fla. At last, they're the best team in the baseball and have I the trophy to prove it. 
I 
"It's a lot more relaxed this 

I 
season than it has been," Glavine said. "It's a lot more­relaxing to answer questions about defending your champi­onship than it is to hear ques­tions like, 'Are you the Buffalo Bills of baseball? Are you ever going to win the big game?'" 
"That stuff, when you hear it all the time, it's real easy to get on the players' nerves," he said. "We always had a little bit more tense atmosphere than we have right now." 
The Braves' new status was on display all over Municipal Stadium. It was hard to find a spot without a sign noting that this is the spring home of the 1995 world champions. 
To defend its title, Atlanta has essentially the same team it had last season. Missing are five role players -pitchers Kent Mercker and Alejandro Pena, outfielders Luis Polonia and Mike Devereaux and catch­er Charlie O'Brien -who were trimmed from the roster to free up money for re-signing first baseman Fred McGriff and out­fielder Marquis Grissom. 
"Right now, everything is great for us," Glavine said. "We're the world champions. We have everyone back. And we're looking forward to doing it again." 
Red Sox 

Cancel that mi::.::.ing person report: Jose Canseco is in camp. 
Canseco was absent from Boston's first full-squad work­out Tuesday morning, and gen­eral manager Dan Duquette was miffed. But shortly after 1 p.m., Canseco arrived in the clubhouse in Fort Myers, Fla. 
Canseco said he had intended to show up for Tuesday's 8:30 

a.m. team meeting but was de­layed by a charity golf tourna­ment in West Palm Beach on Monday. He said he arrived in 



E U R 0 P E 
~tkeltuf 
I I I 
I 
PRRIS $229 MRDRID $249 FRRNHFURT $229 
purchase. Fares do not federal taxes and passenger faciliNes charges. which can to till between SlS.SS and S31.SS. depending on tile desNnaNon. 001 do t1Jeq include departurecharges paid diretHQ to to foreign governments. which can total between S3.00 and SGO.OO.Int IStudentiD maq be re­quired. Fares are suject to change. Restrictions applq. 



Travel
.=....:...:::.:..:~-~ 
CIEE: Council on International Educational Exchange 
On the Web: http://www.ciee.org/cts/ctshome.hhn 

1-800-2-COUNCIL 
[l-800-226-8624] 
Fort Myers around 4 a.m. 
"I had a long drive. I had a lot of things to take care of," he said. "I was sick with allergies. I just could not get up this morning." 
Duquette said Canseco should have been on time "out of re­spect for his teammates" and should have called to say he'd be late "as a professional cour­tesy." 
"I will speak with him," Canseco said. "He loves me." Later, Duquette talked briefly with Canseco. "Elvis," Duquette conceded, "is in the building." 
Yankees 
From Lou Gehrig to Don Mattingly, greatness has graced first base at Yankee Stadium. Now, Tino Martinez has the op­portunity to leave his mark. 

''I'm not going to think about Don Mattingly on the field," said Martinez, acquired in an offseason trade with Seattle. "If I make an error or strikeout, those things are going to be magnified early in the season. It's all part of replacing a leg­end." 
Martinez hit .293 with 31 home runs and 111 RBis last season when the Mariners won the AL West title. 
."We traded for Tino Martinez because Don retired, even if it may only be temporary," man­ager Joe Torre said in Fort Lauderdale, Fla. "We needed a first baseman. If we get as much production as he had last year with Seattle, I'll be more than pleased." 
Mariners 
He won the AL Cy Young Award and pitched his team into the playoffs last season, and will make $5.75 million this year. No wonder Seattle star Randy Johnson is smiling. 
"I am having more fun in this game than ever because I'm not fighting myself," he said at Mariners' camp in Peoria, Ariz. 
''I'm still a perfectionist and want to pitch well every game . But before when I had a bad game, I didn't think the sun would come up the next day." 
Married now with one child and another on the way, Johnson is aware of his good fortune. 
''I'm playing a sport I love and get grossly overpaid doing it," he said. ''I'm not ashamed to say that." 
Giants 
Deion Sanders' decision to skip baseball for at least this season and concentrate on playing for the Super Bowl champion Dallas Cowboys did not come as a surprise to San Francisco manager Dusty Baker. 
Sanders became a baseball free agent when the Giants, for whom he played the last two months of 1995, refused to offer him arbitration. 


They Shelled it out Cor your orthodontist bills. Gx:Jgllecl it up Cor your car insurance. And forked it over Cor that fish tank accident. 
Yet they still inSiSt you call COllect. Touched by their undying love, you spare them Curther expense. You dial 1 800 CALL ATT. 
1 800 CALL MT always costs less than t-soo-coLLECT.* And always gets you the reliable ~ Network. 
Use it whenever you're off campus. 
Know the Code. 1 800 CALL ATT. That's Your True Choice'!M 



AT&T 
Your True Choice 
' For interstate calls. Promotions excluded. 1-800-COLLECJ' is a registered trademark of MCL 
© 1996 AI&T 


~ 

Wednesday, February 21, 1996 The Observer • SPORTS page 17 
• MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL 
Inter-league play the hot topic of spring training 


Wednesday  Guest D.J.-D.J. Johnny Mac  
llp.m.  
Thursday  D.J.-Ljnebacker Dance Music  
Cover Charge Special  
Friday  D.j.-Ljnebacker Dance Music  
$3.00 Cover Charge  
Saturday  D.j-Ljnebacker Dance Music  
$3.00 Cover Charge  
21  or over with proper lD  

Drawings every half hour for an authentic "Ljnebacker" glass with your choice of beverage. 
r!;· 

nothing to lose. I could have gotten knocked out in the first
Murphy 

round of the first fight and l would have said, 'Hey, oh well. 
continued from page 20 

I had fun again."' "It puts a lot of pressure on But as the success grows, so me," he said. "Last year, I had do the expectations. "''m ten times more nervous 
this year," he continued. "This year, everyone expects me to do well again. All I know is I've worked hard and I'm happy to be where I am." 
There's no doubt that when the quarterfinal pairings are posted on Thursday, the younger boxers in the 170­pound range will be checking for a certain "Gold, Frankincense and" Murphy somewhere near the top. 
They'll have a determined look in their eye as they con­sider beating one of the best form boxers the Bengal Bouts has to offer. And suddenly, Murphy will find himself in the exact opposite position as we was a year ago. 
"It doesn't worry me, because when I get in the ring, I've never been able to hear or see anyone in the crowd any­way," he said. 
''I'm just going to be concentrating on my oppo­nent." 
And a victory. 
By MEL REISNER 
Assodatcd Press 
PIIOENIX 

The Cubs against the White Sox and llw Yankees vs. the Mets. The Expos playing the Blun Jays and the Dodgers fac­ing tlw Angds. 
Until now, with the teams op-
HAPPY BIRTHDAY DJ! 
rnayhe in a y«·ar 

erating in different leagues, those natural baseball rivalries have only been available in spring training or special exhibi­tions before the regular season begins. 
The World Series was always a possibility but that hasn't hap­pened yet. The barrier comes down next year with the intro­duction of inter-league play, leaving spring training in Arizona and Florida with just one more March to go before those games become common­place. For fan Paul Pease, the charm of spring training has always been the intimacy of the ballparks and the relaxed feel of games that don't count. Next year, though, they will count and that's OK with Pease, "as long as they get rid of the desig­nated hitter." 
Baseball owners are still struggling with that issue. The National League remains firm against the Dll and the American League is just as strong for the rule it introduced in 1973. 
The likely solution, at least for 1997, is to use the World Series rule of having the DH only in AL ballparks. 
During the first season, teams will play 15 or 16 inter-league games. By the time the expan­sion Arizona Diamondbacks and Tampa Bay Devil Rays begin play in 1998, the number is expected to be up to 30. 

Some rivalries, like the Cubs and White Sox, are so big that it won't matter when or where the teams meet. With the Cubs training in Arizona and the White Sox in Florida, there haven't been spring training games. That could change, though. Pima County will build a joint-use stadium for the Diamondbacks and another team, expected to be the White Sox, and Mike Feder, general manager of the Pacific Coast League's Tucson Toros, believes the proposed 16,000-seat sta­dium would fill up for any Cubs­White Sox spring game. 
"The Cubs and White Sox. That would be huge," Feder 

(No, this is not a cruel joke). , 
Help Student Activities pick a comedian for a show this semester. Check which of the following shows you would attend and send to 315 LaFortune by Fri., March 1st. 
PAULA POUNDSTONE $4/TICKET 
PENN & TELLER $7/TICKET 
ROB SCHNEIDER $4/TICKET 
STEVEN WRIGH.T $5/TICKET 
Name: 

Phone Number: 
Winner will receive dinner for two, a limousine for transportation, two tickets to the show, and a chance to meet the comedian. 
said. 
"White Sox and Cubs fans re­ally don't like each other too much," said Lester Frazin, a rabbi in Sun Lakes who grew up in Chicago. "They have that one game each year just before the season starts, and you're lucky to get out alive. I think anything in the Cactus League would be a big game." 
Diamondbacks general man­ager Joe Garagiola Jr. thinks by­gones will he bygones, at least in the spring, when the games don't count. "Their appeal is of a different nature," Garagiola said. "Spring training is a chance for fans to leave cold weather and come to Arizona or go to Florida and enjoy the sun, kind of get the baseball juices flowing again. I'm a proponent 
...
of inter-league play, and I don't think it will have the slightest impact on spring training. 
~------~­
1 
page 18 The Observer· SPORTS Wednesday, February 21, 1996
I 
I 

f 
Irish atteiDpt to defy Providence 
By TIM SEYMOUR Whatever the motivation, The Browns, Derrick and Associate Sports Editor though, upsetting the Friars will Michael, also average double­be a difficult task. Providence is digits, while forward Jamel 
It's a question that Notre coming off a difficult home loss Thomas is lile team's leading Dame coach John MacLeod has in overtime to No. 21 Boston three-point threat. heard innumerable times since College, but had won five of its Rounding out the starting line­the season began. previous six conference games. up is precociously-monikered 
Despite the repetition, though, "Providence poses many prob­freshman point guard God his face still becomes animated lems," said MacLeod. "It's a Shammgod. Shammgod, appro­and his motions exaggerated in team that has improved priately, is the creator of the delivering his answer, express­throughout the season, and had unit, leading the squad in assists 
ing short-term detriments and a great last month. with 159. long-term benefits with more "They are very quick and ex­Shammgod presents a unique zeal than an economics profes­tend pressure beyond half opportunity for Notre Dame's 
sor. court," he added. "They are the own freshman floor general, 
The question, of course, is type of team that is never out of Doug Gottlieb, to establish him­how affiliation with the Big East a game -you have to play 40 self as the best of the confer­conference has affected the for­minutes against Providence." ence's new point guards. tunes of the Irish basketball pro­The Friars are deadly from "There is a definite similarity 

gram. beyond the three-point arc, with in their styles of play," said 
One of the best tests of Notre three starters hitting above 35% MacLeod. "Both penetrate ex­Dame's progress in its inaugural of their attempts. Forward tremely well, but both are also season will be Providence, Austin Croshere, a second-team very similar in their freshman which comes to the Joyce Center all-Big East selection last sea­numbers" 
tonight for a 7:30 p.m. tip and son, leads the team in scoring at Both guards shoot only 34% its first ever conference 15.7 points per game. from the field. matchup with the Irish. 
Notre Dame has struggled to a 3-11 record in the conference this season, but the Providence game begins a stretch of three consecutive home contests for the Irish against middle-of-the­pack conference foes. 
The outcome of this stretch will reveal whether Notre Dame has at least laid a foundation in its rebuilding process. 
"We're not done yet," said 

MacLeod. "These guys still feel 
that there are some games to 
win, and the conference tour­
nament gives us a goal to look 
forward to." 
Post-season tournaments are 

also a goal for the Friars, but at 
14-9 overall (7-8 Big East), 
Providence has aspirations be­
yond the conference tourney. 
According to MacLeod, how­

ever, the role of spoiler is not 
one that suits Notre Dame. 
"Our thought is that we're just 
App cations are now 

trying to get better and trying to 
get things straightened out on 
our end rather than play the 
being accepted for Food 

role of spoiler," he said. 
and Supply Manager at the Alumni-Senior Club for the 1996-1997 school year. 

Doug Gottlieb will battle God, Shammgod that is, tonight as Providence visits the Joyce Center in the first of three Big East games. 


DOWNHILL SKI TRIP 
SUNDAY, FEBRUARY 25 CANNONSBURG, MI 


Bus Leaves Library Circle at 11:00 AM Cost: $30.00 Includes Lift Ticket, Rental & Transport Return Bus Leaves Cannonsburg at 6:00 PM Beginner Lessons Available Free of Charge Open to all ND Students, Faculty & Staff 
Co-Sponsored By: 
R#?~~ & Outpost Sports Register in Advance at RecSports Deadline; February 22 
Pick up applicatio at the office o Student Activities. 


Wednesday, february 21, 1996 The Observer • TODAY page 19 
FOUR FOOD GROUPS OF THE APOCALYPSE 

MISTER BOFFO 
DlLBERT 
I H£1\RD THAT OUR. 50FTWAI\.E DEVELOPMENT WORK. HA.~ BEEN MOVED TO THE TINY NATION OF 11-\tNGS Cf>-N'T HBON1A. GH WOR5£.. Tl-\1\~ 
) THAT. 

DAVE KELLETT YOUR HOROSCOPE JEANE DIXON 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY! IN THE '1EXT YEAR OF YOUR LIFE: Ingenious ideas will help you beat 
•>ut the competition. Give credit to family members who aid your efforts. Love guides you to new dis­coveries. A financial dilemma proves surprisingly easy to resolve. Keep receipts for tax purposes. An unexpected reunion could take place 111 December. Steer clear of business deals that promise you something for nothing. Your reputation for honesty is a tremendous asset. Pro­tect your good name. 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: humor columnist Enna Bombeck, baseball player Alan frammel, singer Mary Chapin Car­penter, singer Nina Simone. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): An "A-1" day for study and research. Intellectual pursuits are favored over physical feats. You will have no trouble getting someone's approval to enroll in a special course. Put romance on hold for now. 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): A family member makes useful sugges­tions. Careful deliberation will help you decide which moves to make to advance your career. Professional advice could prove very valuable. 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Although security has its attractions, you should not allow yourself to get stuck in a rut. Making a big change in business will not be easy: seek expert advice to reduce the possibility of error. 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): Buying a condo could be a wise investment. Friends will be support­
.-------------~6~====~-------, 

ive if your plans are realistic. Seize 
the initiative in career matters. Your 
intuition is your best guide when 
OKAY, NOW
~ DILBEP-T, YOU'RE. IN ~ 
IT CA.N'T
~ CHARGE OF INTEGRATING ! 

making long-range decisions. 
YOU MIGHT 

LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Do not tly off the handle over a misunder­
GET f1-NY
~ THE ELBONIAN'S -~ 
WA.NT TOGU AWOR5E. 

standing. A tactful response will
~ SOFTWARE WITH OUR 1 IUBERCULOSIS
~ E:/..l51lNG SYSTfJ"'S ; 
VACCINAT10N.
~ ~ 

• OF INTEREST 
help restore domestic hannony. Fin­ish a major project without further ado. 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Break new grounds with your writ­ing skills or musical talent. Some­thing you launch now will create a ripple effect. Logic only goes so far where romance is concerned. Show­er that special someone with TLC. 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Pow­erful ideas sweep your career along on a sea of bright promise. Your opinions carry weight and may pro­vide the glue that holds a business deal together. 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Your helpful input or caring assis­tance will promote better under­standing. Someone you mee~ in a business setting could be your ideal romantic match. Make concessions to friends and loved ones. 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21 ): A confidential deal will increase your resources substantial­ly. Keep outsiders in the dark. It may be better to bypass a so-called "bargain" when shopping. 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): A splendid day lies ahead. You are at your best! Money is available for loans. Take extra steps to protect your valuables. Loved ones prove 

•
surprisingly cooperative when asked for a favor. Show appreciation. 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Tend to banking arrangements with­out further delay. You will be very busy during the next few days. You could be asked to account for joint funds. Keep careful records. Receipts will prove your case . 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Wield your authority judiciously and you will earn respect. Work under a cloak of secrecy. Playing the role of confidential advisor will pay off handsomely. Make certain you are in a position to help. 

Peace Corps Representatives will present informa­tion about post-graduate service opportunities tonight from 6-7:30 p.m. at the CentHr for Social Concerns. 
Dismas House will be sponsoring a hospitality lun­cheon at the Center for Social Concerns, tomorrow from 11:30 to 1 p.m. Menu includHs oven-bakAd bread and warm soup for a Winter Feast. Cost is
52 O.K. Corral 
fighter 

$3.00. 
56 Linda Ellerbee's "And--Goes".,_,+--+­

"Embracing the Current Crisis/Building for the 57 "Terms of 
Future!" at New Wings of Faith Church (The Sunday 
Endearment," 

Place To Be). Located in the Historic 100 Center 
e.g. 

Complex, 100 N. Center Street, Mishawaka, IN.
&o Therefore 

Service times are Sundays 9:30 a.m. and 6 p.m.
&1 What bargain 

Phone 271-8362 for more information.
hunters look for &2 Altar words &3 Impertinent one 64 Harrelson and 

•MENU 
Woodpecker &5 Doze (off) 

Notre Dame North South 3-Cheese Croissant Fettuccine A1frAdo 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 
1 Stir-fry need 4Angelic head wear 10 Saudi Arabia neighbor 14 Nigerian language 15 Country on 
Lake Victoria 1& Baseball squad 11 Tales of woe 19 Delivery 
vehicles 20 Command to Spot 
26 Organizations 27ln 30 Moolah 31 Bowed tree 35 Polar worker 36 Purchasing 
option 37 Holed up 40 Best Picture 
nominee of 1992 43 "Gotch a" 44 Opera set around Seville 45 Lite-rock radio fare 
DOWN

21 Noble name 48 1941 Leningrad 
Chinese Noodles w/Snow Peas Grilled Swordfish 
part event 1 What precedes 
Spinach Fettuccine w/Pesto Hed Bliss Potatoes 
22 Cap 50 X-rated 
a blowout? 230\toman 51 Autograph 2 Melancholy dynasty founder seeker's instrument 
Saint Mary's 
accessory 31995 

Scandinavian Cod 
earthquake site 

Cheese Quesldillas 
4Pizza-­

Stir Fried Carrol.s 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 5ln the past & Baby bug 7 Garden item 
appropriate for 26 Checkbook 
42 "Mrs. Miniver" 51 South-of-the­this puzzle column 
star Garson border money 8 Jeannie portrayer 27 Wow 45 Diamond 

Wanted: Reporters, 
9 KLM rival 10 Taped, in a way 11 Dolphin home 12 Andrea McArdle 
......,.~"o:+'-+'--'1 Broadway role ~~:-:+~±o-1 13 Branch 
~~~~··· headquarters?
~ 18 Single-masted vessel 
-::-t::-+.:7+:::-t 22 Goof off 24 Is friendly to 25 Terrorized 
53 Related corners
28--Aviv 54 Make over
46 Festoon
29Weight 55 Encourage
47 One of the 


photographers
30 New Zealander 57 Playing
Mario Brothers 32 Circular motion 48 Bygone pact marble 33 Give-(yield) 49 1935 hit "The 58 Rival of Dave 34 Kapow! Lady--" 59 Chicago trains 


and editors. 
38"--Mine" (Beatles song) 
Get answers to any three clues 


Join The Observer staff. 
39 Reading room 
by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420­
41 Castle site, 
5656 (75¢ each minute).
often 

.. 
Are you bored?? Looking for something to do?? If so, then you need the book, You Too Can Have Fun 
-,.
In South Bend. This book contains information on over 380 fun places and things to do in our community. It is available free of charge at the Office of Alcohol and Drug Education, 1 Mezzanine Level, LaFortune. Stop by and pick up your copy today!!! 








SPORTS 
Wednesday, February 21, 1996 

Gaither, Morgan lead Irish storm over 'Canes 
Senior Todd Murphy began his Bengal Bouts career as an unpolished fighter, but has emerged as a role-model to younger boxers and the clear favorite of the 170-lb. division 
By MIKE NORBUT Sports Editor 
To the layman, Todd Murphy doesn't look like a boxer. At 6-1 and just 170 pounds, his stiff frame at times looks more suitable for an Erector Set assem­bly than for a senior member of the Bengal Bouts. 
But don't let the skin and bones fool you. There are more than enough mus­ing room in hopes of picking up a pointer or two. Freshmen and other first-time boxers often approach him personally for individual help. 
"I get nervous when people gather around, because I'm not an idol to be watched," he said. "But I like helping out the younger guys. It helps me a lot too to look at another fighter and compare him to myself." 
But things haven't always come that 
cles there to easy for the make a good third-year vet­boxer. eran. In his first 
"Todd is the classic example of a boxer reach­ing a certain level when you can start talking about refinement and individual improvement," Bengal Bouts coach Tom Suddes said. "He's a good, clean, straight­punching, hard­hitting boxer." 
Three years of hard work and training is finally beginning to pay dividends for the senior, who is one of only ten returning finalists from a year ago. The mind is starting to catch up with the mechanics, making for a more complete package. 
"I notice when I'm fighting now that I see the whole picture more," Murphy said. "Before, I would just see the head and hit it as hard as I could. Now, I'm starting to see the whole boxer." 
Others are seeing Murphy as a whole boxer as well. Other top boxers request him as a sparring partner and crowds often gather around the ring in the box-

By TIM MCCONN Sports Writer 
The 2051 fans that showed up at the Joyce Center for Notre Dame's last home game of the season last night were treated to quite a show. Not only did they get to see the 23rd­ranked team in the nation earn a post-season bye, but they also got to enjoy the antics of one of the most lively coaches in college basketball. 
The Irish, who remained in the Associated Press Top 25 this week and entered the USA Today poll, staved off a pesky Miami 
inside/outside combo of Carey Poor and Beth Morgan, who scored 10 and 13 points respectively, kept Notre Dame ahead 41-30 at the half. 
"We got the ball to (Carey), and she finished," said McGraw. "We wanted to get it inside because we thought we had an advantage." 
The second half was the Katryna Gaither story. Her minutes in the first half were limited to nine, but she came out a new woman after the half. 
see HOOPS I page 15 


Hurricane team by winning 86-70. This increases the Notre Dame win streak to live games, and improves their record to 19-5, 14-2 in Big East play. It also clinched a bye for them in the upcoming Big East tournament. 
Although they were victori­ous, the Irish had to over­come a Hurricane team that reflected their energetic, brash coach Ferne Labati, who picked up a technical foul early in the first half and continued to berate the offi­cials throughout the game. 
Said Notre Dame coach Muffet McGraw, "She is very energetic, but she is definitely a terrific coach." 
This may sound like a bro­ken record, but once again the Irish struggled in the first half against an athletic, intense defensive team. Nine turnovers, plenty of second­chance opportunities for the 'Canes, and too many missed lay-ups by the Irish in the opening twenty minutes 
allowed the visitors tO stay . :rheObserver/KatieKroener'th' h o· I th Katryna Gatther scored 24 potnts to lead ND. 
wt m reac . n y e 
• HOCKEY 

Collapse on ice 
leers blow lead, salvage tie against MSU 

bout as a sophomore, Murphy had to face eventual two-time cham­pion Rob Naticchia. His form, which looked more fit­ting of a school­yard brawler than of a boxer, left a little to be desired as he lost by a unani­mous decision. 
But it's amaz­ing what a year can do when you're looking to improve. 
Murphy came out last year as a relative unknown in the 170-pound weight class, but used straight jabs and good defense to advance to the finals, eventually falling to three-time champion and Bengal Bouts poster boy Jeff Goddard. 
But this year will have to be different if Murphy hopes to enjoy the same, or more, success. There will be no sneaking up on the competition come Sunday's quarterfinals. 
see MURPHY I page 17 

By MIKE DAY Sports Wriler 
From extreme jubilation to se­vere depression, it's crazy how things change. 
If someone had said before Tue~day night ·---------­
that the Notre Dame hockey team would bat· tle fourth­ranked Michigan State to a 4-4~~· • 
tie, a celebration ··. .a.·· would be in ·.. •­order. Confetti Dal Grande 
and party hats would be abundant as the Irish would move to within a mere three points of a spot in the CCHA play­offs. 
But after the Irish raced to a 4-1 lead and held it with under four minutes left to play, that feeling of celebration was replaced by disap­pointment and frustration when the Spartans roared back to leave town with a 4-4 tie. 
"When a team like us who hasn't had a lot of success gets in that kind of si(uation, breakdowns become harder to avoid," said Irish head coach Dave Poulin. ''You could sense that tonight. There's no way to teach it. You just have to experience it." 
Prior to the game, Poulin guar­anteed a victory over the Spartans, and the first year coach looked like a prophet for 56 minutes as the Irish looked like world-beaters 
see HOCKEY I page 15 

Men's Basketball Track 


• Men's hoops prepares for Providence 
vs. Providence, Feb. 21,7:30 p.m. 

Alex Wilson Invitational, Feb. 23-24 
see page 18 


Women's Basketball 

Men's and Women's Tennis 
at Connecticut, Feb. 24, 3:00p.m. 


At National Indoors, Feb. 22-25 
• Kevin Brown signs with Raiders 
Hockey 

SMC Sports see page 12 at Miami(OH), Feb. 23 
Basketball at Aurora, Feb. 22, 7:00 p.m. at Bowling Green, Feb. 24 
Swimming at Liberal Arts Invitational, • Spring Training opens Feb. 22-24 
pages 16-17 







