
Tuesday, January 30, 1996• Vol. XXVII No. 78 THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 


• CAMPUS LIFE COUNCil 
Council critiques advising 
Committee 
cites Schools' weaknesses 
By BILL CONNOLLY News Writer 
Propelling itself to the fore­front of the Campus Life Coun­cil's agenda for weeks to come, the formation of a CLC report evaluating the University's ad­vising system was the focus of yesterday's meeting. 
Council members Kate Mc­Shane and Tom Matzzie pre­sented their evaluation of the issue, outlining the structure of each college's advising system and pointing out some weak points of each system. 
They found the College of Ar­chitecture's system to be rarely utilized by students. One reason, 
Williams: Vision key in S.Africa 
By MATTHEW LOUGHRAN News Writer 
Good leadership and foresight are the keys to overeoming problems with race relations both in South Africa and in the United States. according to Father Oliver Williams, co-director of the 
Center for Dame's College of Business Administration, who is cur­filii tly on sab ba tieal at the Graduate School of Business at the University of Cape Town, South Afriea. 
In his lncturn. "What Can We in the U.S. Learn from 

South Af'riea about Dismantling Williams 
U.S. Apartheid'?" Williams said this thnory is working to bring South Africa towards a more egalitarian state. 
Heeently, South Africa saw the steady destruc­tion of Apartheid, a political construct that exduded over 86.4 percent of the country's pop­ulation. 
"The answer to South Africa's miracle is lead­ership," Williams said. "Nelson Mandela is a statesman, not a politician. He has taken a vision and given it to the South African people. It is a vision that can be believed because it is based on the real situation." 
That is the other side of Williams' proposed solution. Mandela's "Reconstruction and Development Program" has, according to Williams, "given the South African people reason to hope that their children will have a chance for economic prosperity." 
When Williams refers to the "people of South Africa," he means people of every race, color and creed. "The thing about Nelson Mendela's pro­gram, is that it is racially blind," he said. 
In response to a question about separatist leaders in the United States, such as Minister Louis Farrakahn of the Nation of Islam, Williams said. "Mandela is going to meet with Farrakahn some time in the next month or so, and I think he [Mandela) is going to tell him that he 
see APARTHEID I page 4 
Coresidentiality plan materializes at meeting 
By BILL CONNOLY News Writer 
Campus Life Council painted a picture yesterday of what life at Notre Dame might be like If 
according to McShane, may be students' lack of understanding of how the advising system is run or the fact that architecture students have the same advisor during all five years of study. 
The advising system used in the College of Engineering in­volves professors serving as advisors for students. And ac­cording to Professor Ken Sauer. this is done "to advise students as to the best path for them to attain a job." 
the University had coed dorms. The Committee for the Compilation of CLC Sentiment on Coresidentiality led by Hall Presidents' Council Co-Chair 
see COED/ page 4 
However. some professors have complained that the focus on researching for students has taken away from time set aside to teach students, according to the report. And since professors sometimes do not have the time to research a certain graduate school or company for a student, they are prone to giving incor­rect advice. 
The College of Business Ad-
see CLC I page 4 
NO athletic aide, alum Stephens dead at 83 
Special ro The Observer 
Notre Dame athletic aide John Joseph Stephens, 83, was laid to rest yesterday at Sacred Heart Basilica after a long-term illness. 
Nicknamed "the Colonel" be­cause of his three decades of service in the Army, Stephens served in the University's ath­letic department with Edward "Moose" Krause and Gene Cor­rigan. He oversaw the depart­ment from 1968 to 1980, and assisted Corrigan and Corrig­an's successor Dick Rosenthal in the eighties, and held an of­fice at Notre Dame up until a few months before his death. 
Before earning a master's degree in guidance counseling at Notre Dame, Stephens at­tended. played baseball, boxed and wrestled at the University of Iowa. 
lie came to Notre Dame in 1964 and became a close friend to Krause. They oversaw the growth of the sports program. 
Stephens served as 11 eaptain, military attache, and military adviser in the Army, where he received the Legion of Merit, the Silver Star. the Bronze Star with two oak-leaf clusters and the Purple Heart. 
Stephens was born in St. Louis. Ilis family requests that memorial contributions may be made to the Ara Parseghian Medical Research Foundation, 
P.O. Box 7878 Notre Dame, Ind., 46556. 
Provost's Office can both assist, intimidate 
Editor's note: This is the first in a four-part series exploring the issue of sexual harassment in American institutions of higher learning. 
By JAMIE HEISLER and 
A.<Sistant News Editor 
MEGAN McGRATH 
News Writer 
1\VIlry year at the University of Notre Dame. an estimated four students come to the ad­ministration with complaints of snxual harassment by a faculty rnembnr that are deemed seri­ous enough to warrant further investigation, aeeording to Sis­ter Kathleen Cannon, associate provost. 
Even though that number may not seem significant, it rnpresents more than one sit­uation in which a student's ed­ueational performance and emotional well-being are threatened by the aetions of a faeulty member. 
But what is more disturbing is that there is no way to gauge how many students are faced with the same situation, yet are reluctant to come forward. 
"I think there is a great deal of fear on the part of the stu­dents, especially in relation to the faculty and administration," says Ava Preacher. assistant dean of the College of Arts and Letters. "Notre Dame puts such an emphasis on authority that students are naturally fearful of the administration. The Provost's office can be intimating for faculty, so one can just imagine how reluctant a student would be to walk in." 
However, Cannon believes that if students and faculty realize "the University can do a lot to proteet students," then their fears of the administration might be alleviated. However, an understanding of University policy on sexual harassment is also key in making the decision to come forward with a sexual harassment allegation. 
"Often students are not sure where to go with their com­plaints. They even mistrust the University because they don't 
• 

know the procedures," said Cannon. 
As associate provost. Cannon handles student's complaints of sexual harassment involving a faculty member. According to her, when many students come forward. they may still be ques­tioning whether or not a faculty member's behavior could be termed sexual harassment. It is at this point that he or she has an initial, informal meeting with Cannon to discuss the charges. 
"The very first thing I do is to say that the first meeting is off­the-record. In this meeting I give the student answers and information," Cannon said. "I explain the procedures and what could happen. Sometimes I might suggest that they may want to go back and think about this [the situation]." 
If, after this initial meeting, the student decides to go for­ward with his or her eharges, he or she will be asked to pre­pare a written summary of the situation or if they would rather, to sign a statement pre­pared by Cannon. Then, Can­non takes the allegations to the accused faculty member. 
Depending on the seriousness of the allegations, Cannon takes one of several stances with the professor. 
"If it is not deemed a serious allegation. but rather an im­prudent statement [by the pro­fessor]. we will discuss it with the professor without using the student's name," Cannon said. "If it's judged serious. then the penalties can range from with­holding a pay raise to suspen­sion. In a very serious situa­tion, we will suggest the possi­bility of resignation." 
In almost all cases, the pro­cess will not reach the stage at which the faculty member is dismissed from the University, according to Cannon. "In order to dismiss, the case would have to go to a Cause for Dismissal with the Aeademie Council. We try to avoid that in these cases because it would require the student's testimony," she said. "But we have never yet had to go to a [Academic Counsel) panel." 
Because of confidentiality is­sue, the University does not comment to the public about cases of sexual hurassment even when the fuculty member is asked to resign. 
"When a student comes to me with an allegation, I assure her or him that the only people I will diseuss it with are the provost and, in serious cases, the president," Cannon says. "We don't comment on the sta­tus of the professor other than to say they are on leave. Even­tually, they will, in a sense. vanish from the roster." 
However, Preacher and other 
see HARASSED I page 4 page 2 The Observer • INSIDE Tuesday, January 30, 1996 

• INSIDE COlUMN 
An Equal Balance 
As St. Mary's Sophomore Parents Weekend and Notre Dame's Junior Parents Weekend quickly approach, many students find themselves undergo­ing a metamorphosis. It 

is now necessary to transform into the model  Lori Allen  
student that parents  Saim Mary's News  
think exist throughout  Editor  
the year.  

If you have not done so already, you'll probably notice the changes as more and more students hit the 'brare instead of the bars. 
Eating a helping of dining hall vegetables a day, students sit up straighter in their chairs during a class that they usually cut. 
That same guy who just last weekend was dancing on the couch with a beer in each hand can now be found studying (what else?) chemical engineering religiously. 
It wasn't too long ago when we nervously listened to our parents dictate the do's and don'ts of college life. 
Do call home. Do separate darks from whites. Don't cram two loads into one. Did the advice really prepare us for what the institution of higher learning had planned? 
After somewhat successfully completing fourteen months of college life, I have com­piled a list of ideas that I really wish my par­ents would have told me before I made the leap from high school to college. I share these belated words of wisdom with you: 
• 
I wish I would've known that the food served during Parents weekend is NOT the same food served throughout the semester. 

• 
I wish I would've know to follow the syl­labus and read the assignments when the professor suggested, rather than attempting to read a semester's worth of text in three days. 

• 
I wish I would've know BEFORE that he hadn't planned on calling me back. Ever. 

• 
I wish I would've known that the ID's from Gary were not worth $65. 

• 
I wish I would've known where NOT to use the $65. lD from Gary. 

• 
I wish I would've known that the side­walks outside of Alumni Hall were not salted before my friend ran out and broke her wrist. 

• 
I wish I would've known that the shuttle is NEVER on time before I waited outside for ten minutes in the dead of winter. 

• 
l wish I would've known what a "SMCic" was before some drunken domer tried to define it for me. 

• 
I wish I would've known that "pizza" in South Bend meant "Papa John's" and that "soda" was referred to as "pop." 

• 
I wish I would've known that beer and Midol don't mix ... 

• 
I wish I would've known how big the clos­et space was in Holy Cross Hall before I jumped in one autumn evening. 


In three weeks, parents will begin to crawl all over both campuses, eager to wit­ness the apple of their eye shining brightly. It's up to us to show them the ropes this time around. 
We can either show Mom our favorite chair in the library, or take her to Bridget's on Thursday night. I suggest both. An equal balance is good. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer . 
•  TODAY'S STAFF  
News  
Gwendolyn Norgle Maureen Hurley Sports Kathleen Lopez Brian Reimhaler Megan McGrath  Production Thomas Schlidt Tara Grieshop Lab Tech Katie Kroener Melanie Smith  
Graphics Chris Mullins  

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All repmduction rights are reserved. 
• WORlD AT AGLANCE 
Shooting during job search results in eight deaths 

JOHANNESBURG, South Africa 
It was 2 a.m. Monday when Alson Mbatha, desperate after two years of searching for work, arrived at the gates of a car parts factory, where hundreds of others also stood in line, hoping. 
The sun had not yet risen when a band of armed men walked up and opened fire on the crowd of job-seekers before fleeing into the darkness. 
Mbatha, wounded by a bullet in the chest, was among 23 injured. Eight people were left dead. 
Hours after the ambush, many of those who escaped harm returned to line up once again for a chance to earn up to $2.77 an hour making aluminum wheels. 
Police were baffied by the shooting. But some of those hoping for jobs said they understood the motivation: The gunmen simply had wanted to clear away competition. 
"People will kill to get a job," said Sipho Masimini, who has been out of work since 1994 in a country with 40 percent unemployment. 
Confrontations that elsewhere might end with shouting or a fistfight often erupt in gunfire in South Africa: Its 
Kevorkian assists in 27th suicide 
PONTIAC, Mich. 
Dr. Jack Kevorkian took part in sui­cide No. 27, that of a 48-year-old 
woman with multiple sclerosis whose bathrobe-clad body was found in Kevorkian's battered van outside the coroner's office Monday. Linda Henslee, 48, of Beloit, Wis., died of carbon monoxide poisoning, Medical Examiner L.J. Dragovic said. Her body 

was found around 6 a.m. after someone called the office and said to "check out the vehicle in the parking lot," Sheriffs Capt. Barnett Jones said. It is the third time in the past year that a body has been left in one of Kevorkian's vehicles near the medical examiner's office, in an area Sheriff John Nichols said has been nicknamed "Kevorkian Drive.". 'Fieger refused to say how, where or when the woman died. He said she was brought to Michigan last week by two daughters and an unidentified friend. The three, with Kevorkian, were present when she died. 
Man builds resistance to snake bites 
PUNTA GORDA, Fla. 
Bill Haast slid back the top to the large metal box and up popped a cobra. The snake spread its hood, weaved back and forth, side to side, hissed. Haast placed his hand about six inches from its menacing fangs. A few drops of the snake's venom could kill an ordinary human. Or, Haast believes, perhaps save someone. Bill Haast is not an ordinary human. The snake lunged four times. Each time, Haast pulled back his hand, just out of range, just in time. His timing has not always been per­fect. At 85, he has been bitten 162 times-the latest, by a cobra, three months ago-by snakes with venom poi­sonous enough to kill an elephant. Twice, Haast almost died. Haas has built up such powerful antibodies in his system that his blood has been used as a snakebite anti­dote. He now injects himself once a week with venom from 32 species. He says he is now immune from snakebites. Is snake venom the secret to health and long life? "Come back in 15 years when I'm 100, and if I 
"still look like I do today, then I would say 'yes,' says. 
Thesday, Jan. 30 
AccuWeather01 forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 

Haast 
• NATIONAl WEATHER 
The AccuWeather®forecast for noon, Tuesday, Jan. 30 30s Os 
COLD WARM STATIONARY 
C 1996 AccuWea1her, Inc. 
Pressure 
H L 8 ESl ITII 

HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN J:SIDRMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY 
Via As&ocislltd Press  
Atlanta Baltimore Boston Chicago Columbus  58 37 37 15 25  41 29 30 3 15  DaUas Denver Los Angeles Miami Minneapolis  51 23 64 80  37 10 53 69 -17  New Orleans New York Philadelphia Phoenix St. Louis  71 43 41 71 19  51 31 30 49 12  

history of political violence and proximity to civil wars in Angola and Mozambique have created an environment where guns -even high-powered automatic rifles -are readily available. 
Previously, violence often stemmed from rivalry between black political groups -the African National Congress and Zulu nation­alist lnkatha Freedom Party. But political fighting largely subsided after the ANC won the 1994 elections. 
In post-apartheid South Africa, it is violent gangs with little regard for ethnic or racial ties that are the chief source of chaos in South Africa's black townships. 
Police said Monday they had no suspects. A special team was being set up to investi­gate, and police offered a reward of $70,000 for information leading to a conviction. 
Witnesses said about seven men, armed with assault rifles and handguns, fired on the crowd outside the NF Die Casting factory. The attack did not appear racially motivated -the gunmen and almost all the job-seekers were black. 
Terrified people fled toward nearby Tokoza, one of Johannesburg's black townships, some getting shot as they ran. One body was found hundreds of yards from the factory. 
Princess sentenced for assault 
BOSTON 
A Saudi princess was placed on six months' probation Monday and agreed to pay $500 in court costs to avert trial on charges she accosted a flight attendant. Salwa Qahanti, 43, entered no plea to the assault charge and admitted no wrongdoing. The probation is unsupervised, and she is free to leave the country. "It's an agreement that is entered into fairly commonly, especially when the defendant has no prior record," prosecutor Austin Free­ley said. Qahanti, a daughter-in-law of Saudi Arabia's King Fahd, was arrested Jan. 20 when her TWA flight from Paris landed in Boston. The pilot had radioed ahead that the princess had attacked flight attendant Sheri Albert. Albert called the outcome of the case an outrage, complaining that the princess got special treatment. "She threatened my life for seven and a half hours, that her royal family was going to kill me. And she walks scot­free," she said. Albert said the problem began in Paris when Qahanti refused to take her seat: "She was yelling at me, saying, 'No one tells me what to do and you will 
aplogize," on and on and on. 
Gingrich hosts hometown meetings 
WOODSTOCK, Ga. 
There is poignancy, when mothers wheel in severely disabled children. And there is comic relief, with droll banter about hero worship, shopping and life in Washing­ton. The questions cover virtually anything and every­thing -Internet censorship, caribou herds, gay rights, timber salvage, chiropractors, national parks, Louis Far­rakhan and the Ku Klux Klan. It's all part of what could be called "Newt Gingrich's Saturday Morning Live" ­regular town hall meetings held by the Speaker of the House in his home district, in the suburbs north of At­lanta. One motivation is political caution -opponents often have charged that Gingrich is too busy pursuing a national agenda to stay in touch with his constituents. His 6th District spokesman, Allan Lipsett, said Gingrich pledged after the last election to keep up a heavy sched­ule of home events "just to make sure they knew and understood that he had not left them as speaker." But Lipsett added that the town meetings expose Gingrich to a wide range of voter concerns that go beyond the day's hot topics back in Washington ... sometimes way beyond. 
Tuesday, January 30, 1996 The Observer • NEWS page 3 
• BnARD OF GOVERNANCE 
. . United Koreans help patient 
Board makes 
contnbutions in search of bone marrow 
to organizations in need 

Chirac stops nuclear testing, assures national security 
Associated Press at its disposal a viable and modern defense. The security of our country PAHlS and our children is assured." 
Under pressure after months of France angered much of the world diplomatic fallout, President Jacques when it began its final series of tests in Chirae on Monday called an early end the South Pacific with a Sept. 5 blast to Franee's underground nuclear tests. beneath Mururoa Atoll in French Poly­
"My dear compatriots, I announce to nesia. you today the definitive halt to French That detonation, roughly the size of nuclear tests," Chime said on state-run the atomic bomb dropped on television Monday night. Hiroshima in 1945, broke a three-year 
"Thanks to tho final series which has international moratorium on nuclear just been carried out, France will have testing. 
By SANG-HUN CHOE Associated Press 
SEOUL, South Korea 
Touched by the plight of a Korean­born American with leukemia, hun­dreds of Koreans have turned out to help him find a suitable bone-marrow donor. 
Born Kim Sung-duk and adopted in 1977 at age 3 by an American couple in Pine City, Minn., Brian Bauman was di­agnosed with leukemia in October. Doctors say without a marrow trans­plant, the U.S. Air Force cadet has at most five years to live. 
"With other .means failing now, Koreans must help this beautiful young man," said Kim Chang-jo, producer of a one-hour documentary on Bauman that aired Sunday on state-run KBS-TV. 
"It's two countries working together -the country which gave birth to Brian and the country which gave him a bright future," he said. 
Because few Korean-Americans are registered at U.S. bone-marrow banks, Bauman's parents, along with sympa­thetic Koreans and a supportive Air Force, launched the international search for a donor. 
Bauman's parents, Steve and Elaine, say they are stunned by the outpouring of support. 
KBS and major dailies, which carried Bauman's story over the weekend, reported a surge in requests for his address and offers of financial help. A few claimed they were Bauman's bio­logical parents. 
"We feel elated," said Han Mi-kyong of the Catholic Medical Center's Bone­Marrow Information Bank, where eight staffers were checking newly collected blood samples overnight Sunday. "We are just swamped with sympathetic calls from potential donors." 
On Saturday, 240 cadets and faculty members of the Korean Air Force Academy lined up to give samples for a possible match. The school said the other 700 will follow suit this week. 
"Sung-duk and I have different nationalities, but we share the same Korean blood and we are pursuing the same goal," said cadet Eum Chung­shik. "I really hope he can fly in the blue sky again." 
Scheduled to graduate this spring, the 21-year-old Bauman seemed healthy until October, when he complained of stomach pain, fatigue and loss of appetite during flight training. 
Those problems now keep him in bed 18 hours a day, but he is determined to attend class and earn his degree. 
Doctors give him an 85 percent chance of survival if a relative can be found to give marrow and less than 45 percent if another compatible Korean donor can be found. 
The chances of a match, usually 1-in­200,000, increases to 1 in 20,000 among the homogeneous Koreans, experts say. But bone marrow trans­plants are not a well known concept here and only about 10,000 potential donors are registered. 
By MAGGIE WALSH News Writer 
Saint Mary's Board of Governance met yesterday to discuss a number of issues concerning how its money would be spent and how to increase campus awareness of its presence. 
Board members voted to give monetary support for a seouting trip three students will take over spring break. 
Tlw students are going to Camaroon, West Africa to decide whether a new abroad program might be established in the future. 
BOG members also agreed to provide money for an advertisement in their annual booklet in order to support Bengal Bouts, the annual fundraising event that supports the Holy Cross mis­sion in Bangladesh, India. 
BOG President Sarah Sullivan suggest­ed that jars be placed in the residence hulls, Haggar, and in the dining hall with signs attached to eneourage students to support charities and to attend the stu­dent body election Feb. 13. Sullivan said she hopes everyone will "put in their two cents worth." 
It eame to BOG's attention that many students expressed concern that they are unaware of campus organizations, such as BOG, Student.Activities Board, and Residence Hall Association. Members of BOG and other boards would like all freshmen to feel welcome. They intend on holding an informal forum for fresh­men in the near future. 
In other BOG business, the Board is in the process of surveying a random group of students to vote on a new name for the Haggar Snack Bar. BOG is also giving monetary support to two students attending FUERZA. BOG members will also attend a preview of the Keenan Review to ensure that there will be no material harmful to the ND/SMC relation­ship. 
RHA , BOG treasurer Jenn Roach, and the Career and Counseling Commissioner all presented weekly reports on their recent and upcoming events. 
RHA is in the final stages of planning the Little Sibs weekend; Roach present­ed the remaining budget and distribution of funds; and Career and Counseling is preparing for Woman's Week and Eating Disorders Awareness week. 
There will be no BOG meeting on Feb. 
5. Board members will vote on their con­stitution at a meeting the following week on Feb. 12. BOG welcomes anyone with concerns or comments to attend their weekly meetings. 
Priest strangled in Lithuania, three male suspects arrested 
Associated Press 
VILNIUS, Lithuania 
A 70-year-old Roman Catholic priest has been choked to death in the Lithuanian city of Ukmerge, the Baltic News Service reported Monday. 
Father Valcovas Ramanauskas' blood­stained body was found in his apart­ment Saturday. A rope used to strangle 
him was still tied around Vilnius, arrested three men suspected of killing the priest during a burglary. 
The highlighted the rising crime in the former Soviet Baltic republics, where rates of most crimes have sky­rocketed since independence from Moscow in 1991. 
Last year, the overall crime rate in Lithuania climbed by more than 6.3 percent. 
But Lithuania's 149.3 crimes per 

his neck, according to  10,000  residents  still  fell  below  
police.  Estonia's rate of 242.6 crimes per  
Police in Ukmerge, 37  10,000 residents. Latvia registered  
miles north of the capital  140.8 crimes per 10,000 residents .  

• CORRECTION 
<Ti··.·.. 
The article entitled "Progressive U.S. Lagging in Women's 
Equality Issues" dated January 25, 1996 misidentified the 
Divine Book, the "Qur," an as a Hindu book. The book is one of 
the Muslim religion. The Observer regrets the error. 

APPALACHIA SPRING 
BREAK 
March 10-16, 1996 
SEMINAR 
The Appalachia Seminar during the spring break Fresents a unique service-learning opportunity. Students travel to various states in the Appalachia region: Kentucky, West Virginia, Tennessee, and Mississippi. They work at a variety of sites which examine the political, social, economic, and cultural forces influencing the Appalachian people. These sites focus on several issues including self help, housing construction, environmental well-being, rural health care, and race relations in Appalachia. Through physical labor and person-to-person contacts, students experience the cultural richness of the area and begin to understand and analyze the social forces that influence the lives of the mountain people. 
THE SEMINAR 
• 
Is a !-credit Theology course 

• 
Involves orientation and follow-up learning 

• 
Presents the opportunity to work, laugh, and learn with other volunteers. 


APPLICATIONS:  Available at the Center Applications are due: Wednesday, January 31, 1996  
For further information:  Tim Hipp, 634-1141 or Alex Andreichuk, 634-3504 Bradley Harmon, 631-9473 Dr. Jay Brandenberger, 631-5293  

We have started to take applications for next year. 
Furnished apartments­swimming pool-jacuzzi­tennis, volleyball, & basketball courts­24 hour laundry-shuttle bus­professional management. 
*Apartments available for your selection.* 
For more information cal/272-1441. 
page 4 The Observer • NEWS Tuesday, January 30, 1996 
Coed 
continued from page 1 
Matt Schlatter and Student Body President Jonathan Patrick submitted a report for review by the Council. The report listed what the CLC feels are the most effective coresi­dential housing options: 
• 
The complex must not only house the students, but also include a communal eating area, recreation area and study area 

• 
A capacity of approximately 100 students 

• 
An option available only to seniors 

• 
Include aspects common to dorms -praying, athletics (perhaps the chapel area could be aimed at addressing the off­campus mass) 

• 
Staffed by both men and women (perhaps married cou­ples) 

• 
Suite setup with two bed­rooms and a bathroom. 

• 
Coed by room 

• 
A laundry room 

• 
A parking lot 


The report stated that "the most overwhelming value" for coresidentiality at Notre Dame is "the potential for enhanced male/female interaction." 
Reports to the University focusing on this issue show "an obvious deficiency in this social areathough through this new housing option, a select number of Notre Dame seniors might have the opportunity to live in an environment indicative of the 'real world."' 
"On the flipside," the report continued, "several concerns ... were voiced, especially with regard to damaging a success­ful single-sex dorm environ­ment." The report listed exam­ples of what may result should coresidentiality be established, namely "a loss of unique hall spirit; a loss of the virtues of the present residential system, [and] the disruption of the 'good"life' currently estab­lished.""The focus of this facili­ty would be on those Seniors who would otherwise be mov­ing off-campus," the report said. "With this in mind, this is not to be considered a dormito­ry; rather, this is a housing option which would alleviate many of the safety concerns associated with off-campus housing. 
Apartheid 
continued from page 1 
[Farrakahn] is dead wrong, that the answer to the problem is not through separate plans but through one effort on the part of the entire society." 
Williams thinks a program, such as the one that Mandela created, will work in a multicultural society such as the United States because, as Williams said, "There are ten tribal languages in South Africa, and belief in this plan cuts across all the cultural lines." 
Another element of the ap­parent success of the program in South Africa was that "the white community sees the vi­sion too. The same people that supported Apartheid ten years ago, are working for change in South African society today," Williams said. 
Williams indicated that Mandela had "set up a process that many people in the government today can continue with after he [Mandela] steps down." 
"Much international invest­ment and help from the gov­ernment is still needed, "according to Williams, "but the plan has a great chance for success in the long run because of the leadership of Nelson Mandela, and his ability to con­vince the people of South Africa that his plan is the key to eco­nomic and political stability." 
Williams has a Chemical En­gineering Degree and a Theol­ogy Masters Degree from the University of Notre Dame, and a PhD in Theology and Ethics from Vanderbilt University. 
Harassed 
continued from page 1 
faculty members believe this policy exacerbates students' fears and reluctance to come to the provost with complaints. 
"Keeping these allegations buried creates an environment of fear and intimidation," Preacher said. "All of us know the University wouldn't know­ingly hire some one with a past history of harassment. But at­tempting to cover mistakes un­dermines our confidence." 
Tomorrow, The Observer ex­amines the reasons behind many students hesitance in re­porting incidents of sexual ha­rassment involving faculty members. 
CLC 
continued from page 1 
ministration has advisors who consult with stu­dents concerning the content of their course load. 
According to the report, these advisors basical­ly can do no more than state the number of required credits since most student concerns are questions which the faculty is better prepared to answer. 
The report stressed that this was not due to advisor incompetence, but rather to an improper definition of each advisor's workload. 
The advising systems of both the College of Arts and Letters and the College of Science were found to be, in the words of Matzzie, "consistent­ly inconsistent." 
For most course advice, it was found that stu­dents were either directed to specific de­partments or were given information from the departments through the advisors. In some courses such as government, upperclass students are not even consulted, the report said. Instead, they are simply given a PIN number to finalize their decision on a course. 
Matzzie suggested the advisors tell students how to choose a major and track the credits each student needs in order to graduate, as soon as the student declares a major. 
Bill Kirk, vice president of Student Affairs, brought the ·effectiveness of the advisors in the Freshman Year of Studies into question since these advisors were not mentioned in the report. 
HPC Co-Chair Matt Schlatter mentioned that during his first year at Notre Dame, advisors mainly encouraged him rather than asked him questions which he said could have revealed aspects of his academic career of which he was unsure. 
Many members of the Council cited the need for advisors in all schools to make the connection between advising on curriculum and advising on career choices. 
Some members suggested going to the Faculty Senate with the issue since advising students could be seen as a part of teaching, a teaching performed outside of class. 
Assistant Dean Ava Preacher of the College of Arts and Letters stressed that students need to be told that they can utilize their advisors at the students' whims. Preacher reminded the CLC of a program focused on this end -a fair that will occur later this semester which among other goals will aim at supplying sophomores in the College of Arts and Letters with ideas for a major. 
Kristin Beary, HPC co-chair, suggested a streamlined structure for advising students in all colleges. 
Beary said that in the freshman year, students should be advised toward a college; in the sopho­more year -toward a major; and in the junior and senior years -toward departments and courses which would benefit students on in­terviews with different organizations. 
According to Father Joe Carey, many students float between colleges because the process is not streamlined or clear. Carey said he worried that these students end up failing out in junior or senior year due to a lack of direction and moti­vation. 
Seth Miller, South Quad senator, commented that Notre Dame must not turn into a re­searching school like many Ivy League schools, but rather must keep its Catholic character which emphasizes teaching students. 
Preacher responded to this statement, saying that this argument "would not stick" since pro­fessors' tenure is based on the amount of research they perform, and many professors would not want to advise students on career choices since it is not part of their job descrip­tion. 
Kirk then stated that since this issue has drawn so many diverging comments from the CLC, it should be presented to the students as the leading topic of discussion on campus rather than that of coresidentiality. 
Kirk commented that since the advising issue concerned academics, it would bear greater scrutiny from the students than social issues would. 
According to Kirk, "the CLC should talk directly with students, advisors and professors now that we hav'\ discussed our own anecdotes on the advising system." 
McShane and Matzzie will further research the issue during the week with the help of Preacher and Kirk and will report back to the CLC for fur­ther discussion next week. The CLC said it hopes to make a statement on the issue in the near future. 
.9/poa M!e ~~Mp. eat!/ !YA:e &~.nHJP a~/-$'~~~ 
x~~S~· -.~ "~X: 
~~ "4e ~~~ ~ THE UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME ~~· 

~clPxDEPARTMENT OF MUSIC PRESENTS X ~ 
. GUEST ARnST SERIES . 
•t !•• i•
Q ' 
• 
lUI: i 
I ft:; i 
§/1RENTANO I 
i i 
SlRING QUARTET i i i 
i
! i 
Q 0 
! i 
i 2 00 i
• : p.m. 1 
Alumni Senior Club presents the 
!i Sunclay, February 4, 1996 i 

ND co cert event of the year: 
i i •Annenburg Auditorium 
d 
x the Snite Museum of Art . x~ 
\Nednesday, 
~ e-"~ ~ 
January 31
~~ $.) Genenl Admission; S2 Student/Senior tftS®~ X~~~~-~~~d,LJx. 
is once-in-a-college-career event! 
~--------------------------------------~---------­
Tuesday, January 30, 1996 The Observer • NEWS page 5 
Nuns slain in rampage 
Revenge motivates attack on convent, two murdered 
By GLENN ADAMS Associated Press 
WATEHVILLE, Maine 
A former mental patient accused of beat­ing and stabbing four nuns, killing two of them, had been turned down for a job at their convent just last week, a volunteer said today. 
"Pray for us," read a hand-lettered sign taped to the front of the ehapel. 
Poliee said they found Mark A. Beehard in the e~mvent's ehapel Saturday evening, standmg over one the nuns and beating her with a religious figurine. Officers said they had to pull him off of the woman, and that he also beat and stabbed three others in an adjaeent part of the eon vent. 
Thtl two nuns who survived the attack remainnd hospital­ized today. 
Nuns at the convent of the Snrvants of the Blessed Saerament said Beehard had applied for a job last week but was turned down, said Holand Bourget, who volun­teered to answer phones today while the remaining sisters were in seclusion. 
IIH said Beehard had ex­pressed intllrest in doing odd jobs at the eonvent. 
Bourget, a former handyman at the eon­vHnt, said thll nuns were eoping well "but nobody slept that first night. I've been toss­ing and turning in my bed. Every station in the world has belln here." 
Nuns had just finished a prayer serviee Saturday evening when an intruder smashed the glass on a locked door, opened it and walked inside. 
Mother Superior Edna Mary Cardozo, 68, died late Saturday at Kennebec Valley Medieal Center in Augusta, and Sister Mary J~!linn Fortin, 6 7, died early Sunday. a hos­pital spokeswoman said. 
An autopsy by the state's deputy chief mtHlical examiner determined that the women died from "multiple blunt force injuries of the head." 
Sister Patrieia Keane, 68, was in good condition early today at an area hospital and Sister Mary Anna DiGiacomo, 72, was in serious eondition. 
Bechard, 37. a loeal man who had oeca­sionally worshiped at the convent, was taknn away with blood still staining his white T-shirt. lie was eharged with murder and jailed without bail pending an arraign­ment later today. 
and had previous run-ins with the law. He was involuntarily committed to a mental hospital in 1994, said Police Chief John Morris. 
Authorities were trying to determine whether Bechard had been released from the hospital as the result of a class-action lawsuit on behalf of patients at the Augusta Mental Health Institute, one of two state­operated mental hospitals in Maine, said Stephen McCausland of the state Public Safety Department. 
Bechard was described as an accom­plished musician who had played trumpet in a local jazz combo and studied at the University of Maine at Augusta. 
"All I can say to you is we're very sorry, and there's nothin,g ~ore we can say," Diane Bechard, the suspect's mother, said today from her home. She declined to com­ment further. 
The convent is in a neighborhood of state­ly old homes, duplexes and professional offices that is considered among the safest 
in Waterville, a city of 
about 17,000 people 
about 97 miles northeast 
of Portland. 
At St. Francis deSales 
Catholic Church down the 
street, parishioners were 
numb. 
"They're stunned and 
asking how can a thing 
like that happen in a 
place like this?" said the 
Hev. Claude Gendreau. 

~·~·-~···-~-~-~~AP Bishop Joseph Gerry, leader of Maine's Homan 
Catholics, urged the people of the state to pray for the victims, their families and even Bechard. 
"May Mark not give in to anger or hatred, discouragement or fear. But may his wounds also be quickly .healed," Gerry said. 
Servants of the Blessed Sacrament are an international order. Their only other con­vent in the United States is in Pueblo, Colo. 
The yellow brick chapel in this central Maine city is open daily to the public for worship, and nuns take turns keeping vigil near the altar. 
The chapel is next to the Maine Criminal Justice Academy, where state and mu­nicipal police officers are trained. No one was at the academy at the time of the at­tack. 
Five nuns who were not injured in the attack Saturday night were in seclusion and did not answer calls Sunday. A handwritten sign on the chapel door said: "Chapel closed except for Mass. Pray for us." 
Claude Hallee, who lives with his family a few hundred feet away from the convent, said the most serious crime in the neighbor­hood previously has been vandalism and juvenile crime. 
Hallee said he was in "total shock -to 
AIDS drug combination 'most potent' therapy 
By DANIEL HANEY 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
A triple-punch combination of an experimental new AIDS drug and two others already on the market is by far the most potent treatment yet for people infected with the deadly virus, researchers reported Monday. 
The therapy does not cure AIDS. At best, it will slow and perhaps stall the disease for long periods. Even this could be a significant advance. since currently available virus medicines do little to extend AIDS patients' lives. 
The treatment involves one of a new class of drugs called protease inhibitors and is still in early stages of human testing. Nevertheless, AIDS researchers who have seen many promising initial results go sour in the past are enthusiastic about the latest findings. 
"It's wonderfully exciting. It's a milestone," said Dr. Gerald Friedland of Yale University. 
The key to the new combination is indinavir, a still-experimental protease inhibitor developed by Merck & Co. It is combined with the standard AIDS medicines AZT and 3TC. 
Dr. Roy Gulick and colleagues from New York University gave the combination to 26 patients. After six months, they could find no measurable trace of the AIDS virus in 24 of them. Their treat­ment is continuing, but re­searchers say it is still too soon to know how long this effect will last. 
Gulick planned to present his results in detail Thursday at the annual Conference on Retro­viruses and Opportunistic In­fections, an AIDS meeting spon­sored by the Infectious Disease Society of America. However, Dr. Emilio Emini of Merck released some of the findings at the meet­ing Monday at a standing-room­only session on protease inhibitors. 
"This is the best response of any anti-retroviral therapy that has been seen to date," said Gulick, and several other AIDS experts at the meeting agreed. 
"We all share the excitement of the moment that long-term sup­pression of this virus is real," said Dr. Paul Volberding of the

University of California, San Francisco. The first protease inhibitor to 
reach the market was saquinqavir, a Hoffman-LaHoche drug approved last month by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration. However, experts believe that indinavir and ritonavir, another protease inhibitor being tested by Abbot pharmaceuticals. are con­siderably more powerful. 
Like other AIDS drugs, protease inhibitors attempt to short-circuit HIV, the AIDS virus, by disrupting its life cycle. They block produc­tion of protease, an enzyme cru­cial to the virus's survival. 
Other AIDS drugs on the market work by intercepting the virus at a different stage in its reproduction. These standard medicines can inhibit the virus briefly but quickly lose their punch as mutant forms of IIIV evolve that are immune to their effects. 
A major question is whether ­and how quickly -HIV will become resistant to protease inhibitors. too. 
Dr. Douglas Hichman of the University of California, San Diego, speculated that because the com­bination so sharply suppresses growth of the virus, it will hold down the evolution of resistant strains of HIV, as well. 
Richman agreed the latest work appears to be a significant advance but added, "Although it may be a home run, there are a lot of details that need to be worked out." 
Particularly, doctors need as­surance that suppression of the AIDS virus will last. While only longer testing will prove this. Emini said there are hints. One patient who has received indinavir alone has been healthy and appar­ently free of the virus for two years. 
"That tells us what's possible," he said. "If we can do that in one, there is no reason why it can't be done in many." 
If the new approach works as well as researchers hope, doctors might begin therapy much earlier in the disease. well before AIDS symptoms set in, especially if tests show patients have high amounts of virus in their blood. 
"The goal of therapy should now be to lower the virus load as much possible for as long as possible in as many patients as possible," said Emini. 
---~--~-----~--------------------------------------~ 

By ROBIN ESTRIN 
Associated Press 
NATICK, Mass. 
With enough strength train­ing, women can load trucks, fix heavy equipment and march under the weight of a loaded backpack as well as many men, according to a study by Army researchers. 
Seventy-eight percent of the women tested could qualify for Army jobs considered "very heavy," involving the occa­sional lifting of 100-pound loads, said Everett Harman, the Army scientist who headed the study. 
The results prove that "women are capable of being trained to perform most very heavy military tasks," Harman said. 
Before the training study be­gan at the Army's Natick Labs, only 24 percent of the women tested could lift 100 pounds. 
The volunteers -all but one of them civilians -were lawyers, bartenders, mothers and students. Many had never exercised before, and several had recently had children and wanted to get back in shape; others were recreational jog­gers. Each earned $500 for participating. 
"When people think of this study, they probably think we're bodybuilding, steroid­taking, weightlifting women," said Jean Haertl, 30, who said she lost 35 pounds over the six months of training. "We range from being very thin and lean to not so thin and lean. We rep­resent the average shape of women." 
For 24 weeks beginning in May, 41 women spent 90 min­utes a day, five days a week, performing strength tests de­signed to simulate specific mili­tary tasks. Four trainers, all nationally certified, oversaw their conditioning. 
The women lifted 40-pound boxes to heights of 52 inches ­the average height of an Army flatbed truck -jogged through a 2-mile wooded course wear­ing a 75-pound backpack, and performed dozens of squats holding a 100-pound barbell on their shoulders. 
The women also were tested on the number of times they could lift a weight in a set pe­riod. 
For the tests most relevant to military tasks -backpacking and repetitive lifting of heavy boxes -the women improved 33 percent overall. 
Harman measured the wom­en's success against previous Army studies of men on active duty. 
In earlier tests, an average Army man could lift a box of 
128.5 pounds to a height of 52 inches. Before the study, the women volunteers could lift 70 percent of that. After, they av­eraged 91 percent of what the men lifted. 
On average, Harman said, women tend to have about 70 percent of the lower body strength of men, and 55 per­cent to 60 percent of men's up­per body strength. 
Lori Gilstrap, a strength and conditioning· coordinator with the U.S. Olympic Committee in San Diego, said she wasn't sur­prised the women improved, especially because they had never been professionally trained. 
But, she said, women can't be expected to match men's strength because they have much lower levels of testos­terone. "For women to lift the exact amount that a male could lift, say in a bench press, is go­ing to be very, very difficult," she said. 
Critics charged last year that the study, conducted by the Army Research Institute of Environmental Medicine, was a prelude to plans to allow women to engage in hand-to­hand combat. Because of that, the $140,000 study was placed on hold for about five weeks until the controversy subsided. 
Women are now excluded from ground combat in the Army and often are rejected for other jobs because they can't perform the lifting tasks, Har­man said. 
Harman believes it's worth the investment to strengthen military women. 
"Some people say, 'Why should you spend money train­ing women when you can get men off the street?"' he said. 
Harman argues that Army women tend to have more edu­cation than Army men, and that it's less expensive and time-consuming to increase a woman's strength than it is to teach an illiterate male to read. 
By MARGARET SCHERF 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
The White House's spokesman in the Whitewater affair was heading home after an arduous day at the office when he was abduct­ed at gunpoint and forced to withdraw money from automatic teller machines before being freed. 
Mark Fabiani was accosted by two men in the Washington suburb of Alexandria, Va., on Friday night, and driven into Washington where he got the cash with credit cards and a cash card, Alexandria Police Lt. John Crawford said Monday. 
Fabiani had gotten off the subway and was walking home when the two men confronted him, one of them pointing a gun, and ordered him into their car. . 
Television station WRC reported that the men also took Fabiani's Rolex watch, his brief­case and a cellular telephone. The items were returned, but only After Fabiani used his credit cards and a cash card to make some $1,500 in withdrawals -about half of what the robbers demanded. 
WRC reported that abductors also returned $10 to Fabiani for a cab ride home. 
Fabiania already had had a long day prior to his abduction at 9:30 p.m., followed by 2 1/2 hours of driving around with his abductors. 
First lady Hillary Rodham Clinton had testi­fied before the Whitewater grand jury in Washington on Friday afternoon, and Fabiani had spent the day responding to reporters' questions and huddling with other White House aides. 
Since last summer, Fabiani has been the White House's point man responding to reporters' inquiries on the Whitewater affair. A 1982 graduate of Harvard Law School, he started his political career in 1985 as counsel to then-Los Angeles Mayor Tom Bradley and was named deputy mayor and Bradley's chief of staff in 1989. 
He came to Washington as a Justice Department attorney and later went to work in the White House counsel's office. 
Jet crashes in neighborhood 
of the April1995 crash.
Navy Tomcat's Bates went before a Field Naval Aviator Evaluation Board and was recommended fully
fall kills five 
qualified for return to flight sta­tus. That judgment was basedin Tennessee on several factors, such as past performance, attitude and fly­
By DADE HAYES ing record, Hartung said. 
Associated Press 
Bates' fighter squadron, VF 213, has had four accidents inNASHVILLE, Tenn. 
the last 16 months, includingA Navy F-14 fighter jet heavy the October 1994 fatal crash in­
with fuel crashed in a huge 
volving Lt. Kara Hultgreen, one
fireball into a neighborhood 
of the first women to qualify for 
Monday, demolishing three a Navy combat aviation as­
houses and killing five people. 
signment.
The pilot had been blamed for 
The squadron was trans­
a previous accident. 
ferred to the USS Kitty Hawk in Three of the dead were in a October.
house that took a direct hit 
from the Tomcat, as the F-14 is 
known. The others killed were the plane's two-member crew. 
The Navy identified the pilot as Lt. Cmdr. John Stacy Bates, 33, originally of Chattanooga. The radar interceptor officer was identified as Lt. Graham Alden Higgins, 28, from Dover­Foxcroft, Maine. 
Neither ejected before the crash. 
In the earlier crash, off the aircraft carrier USS Abraham Lincoln, Bates lost control of his F-14 and crashed into the Pa­cific Ocean during maneuvers with another fighter. He and the radar intercept officer ejected. 
Cmdr. Gregg Hartung, a Navy spokesman, said Monday night that pilot error was the cause 
23rd Annual Suntnter Progrant 
ND-SMC Students. 
Meeting February 5th Carroll Hall, SMC 7:00p.m. 
London Rotne 
May 22-June21 June 16-July 15 
Travel in Ireland, Scotland, France, Germany and Switzerland 
Courses Offered in Biology, Business & Economics, History, Italian, Photography, Sociology. 
Pizza Social 
Past students and faculty will be present. For infonnation call Prof Black at 284-4460 or 272-3726 
day from Nashville Interna­tional Airport on a training mis­sion, returning to its base at the Miramar Naval Air Station near San Diego. 
The fireball could be seen for miles from the wooded, work­ing-class neighborhood of brick homes where the crash oc­curred under overcast skies. 
"One guy was just sitting in his couch. He never had a chance. They were all just sit­ting where they were," said firefighter James Dean. 
The fighter jet hit one house, engulfing homes to either side in flames and littering the neighborhood with plane parts, whhile pieces of an engine sat in a yard across the street. 

A "must see" spectacu/al' thl'iiiBI' with musical undBI'SCDI'ing. 
MORRIS CIVIC AUDITORIUM • SOUTH BB\10 
February 2-3-4, 1996 
tl Friday 8 p.m. • Saturday 2 p.m. & 8 p.m.-. 0 -~\.. Sunday 2 p.m. EST -~1\0Ut\ lickets 811.50 to 843.50 10 Ca II 219-235-9190 
Box office open Monday-Friday, 10 a.m. -5 p.m. Charge to VISA, MasterCard, American Express -Group, Student &Senior Citizen Discounts 
A Broadway Theatre League Presentation 

-
VIEWPOINT 
• AND IN THIS CORNER 
Defining the Catholic and apostolic university 
GARRY TRUDEAU
• 000NESBURY 
• QUOTE OF THE DAY 
" Let all the learned say what they can, 'tis ready money makes the man." 
-William Somerville 
Is the University of Notre Dame du Lac a Catholic university? 
This may seem like a rather inane question, yet it is one that has been raised in the not-so-distant past. If you asked anyone at Notre Dame whether or not it was a "Catholic university," 99 and 44/1 OOths of them would respond with an incredulous look or a snide smirk at the questioner's lack of intelli­gence. 
Matthew Apple 
The abovn question naturally assumes the listener knows the meaning of the word "Catholic." According to modern eonnotation, "Catholic" denotes a person or a concept whieh adheres to a system of beliefs espoused by a Christian sect basnd in Horne, Italy, known throughout Western History as "The Church." 
It is to this definition that most refer when describing Notre Dame as "Catholic" -that it embodies the beliefs and traditions one normally associates with the Homan Catholic Chureh. 
Yet Notre Dame and many other Amnriean "Catholic universities" do not subseribe to offieial Chureh dogma con­cerning academia. 
A recent observation that Notre Dame does not discriminate by hiring a ma­jority of new faculty members based solely on their religious beliefs may or may not bn true -this writer honestly dons not know. 
The observation apparently implies that Notre Dame, elairning allegiance to Catholie beliefs, has somehow rebelled against the Church by hiring infidels and non-Catholie Christians as teaehers. 
Does this really eonstitute a "secular­ization" on the part of Notre Dame? Everything Notre Dame does as an insti­tution is based upon the moral prin­ciples of the Catholic Church. 
Every rule in "du Lac" reflects the influence of a Catholic standard of per­sonal moral conduct, and, whether or not one chooses to agree with aspects of these rules, one must agree that the University maintains a consistent system of beliefs commonly called "Christian." 
Does the hiring of many "non-believ­ers" by Notre Dame constitute a diver­gence from its moral standards? Does Notre Dame's recognition that the Catholic Church is not the single stan­dard of ethnicity and religiosity consti­tute a "breaeh of faith"? 
Does the fact that the student and fac­ulty population is rapidly becoming more diverse mean that Notre Dame is somehow morally "degenerating" and will soon turn into "another Vanderbilt"? 
Surely this question is even more face­tious than the former inanity concerning Notre Dame's "Catholic" nature. Perhaps what is needed here is a differ­ent definition of the word "Catholic." 
According to Webster's Unabridged Dictionary, the word "catholic" also means "universal." When the Church was founded, since it had all but elimi­nated other versions of Christianity at the time, it was indeed the embodiment of a "universal" Christian religion in Europe. 
Over time, this universality has been replaced by a rigid dogma and a hierar­chy which has alienated entire countries with its refusal to consider alternative views of the world. 
It is this kind of authoritarian rigidity which has led to such comical beliefs as recently expressed by a man of the cloth, that students of Notre Dame who move outside the confines of campus do so in order to sell pornography and candy bars to impoverished local youths. Surely, this is not what Notre Dame seeks to represent. 
In recent years Notre Dame has 
Tuesday, January 30, 1995 
THE OBSERVER 
NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY'S OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1995-96 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief John Lucas Managing Editor Business Manager Suzanne Fry Joseph Riley 
News &litor ................................ David Tyl<r Advenising Manager ........................... John Potter Viewpoint Editor .................. Michael O'Hara Ad Design Manager ...................... Jen Mackowiak Sports Editor ............................. Mike Norbut Production Manager .................. Jacqueline Moser Accent Editor ......................... Krista Nanncry Systems Manager ............................ Scan Gallavan Saint Mary's Editor .................... Patti Carson Observer Marketing Director .......... Pete Coleman Controller ............................................. Eric Lorge 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the Universiry of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. h docs not necessarily reflect the policies of the adminisua­tion of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned edi­torials represent the opinion of the majoriry of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commemarics, letters and Inside" Columns present the views of the authors, and nm necessarily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's com­munity and to all reo~.Jcrs. The free expression of varying opinions through lerters is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 
Editor-in-Chief 631-4542 Business Offke 631-5313 Managing Editor/Viewpoint 631-4541 Advertising 631-6900/8840 Sports 631-4543 Systems/Marketing Dept. 631-8839 News/Phow 631-5323 Office Manager 631-7471 Accent/Saint Mary's 631-4540 Fax 631-6927 Day Editor/Production 631-5303 Viewpoint E-Mail Viewpoint.l@nd.edu Generallnformalion 631-7471 Ad E-Mail observer@darwin.cc.nd.edu 
page7 
Wtv;'. 
t\4N~N-:=T?f6 nMP''> -~cA'fvA~ef~ 

sought to increase its funding in science and the arts to become a respectable research institute, to regain its aca­demic standing among American insti­tutes of higher learning. 
Evidently, the University realizes that to seclude itself from the variety of human ethnicity and belief systems is to announce its self-imposed demise to the educated world. 
American Catholic universities are actively supporting a larger world view and accepting a greater moral responsi­bility to assist in improving human re­lations and in crossing religious and cul­tural backgrounds, to help people recog­nize the common moral themes of all systems of belief. And the distant Church hierarchy sees this only as a denial of faith. 
Perhaps Notre Dame and other American universities have chosen to reject the old, party-line dogma of a "One True Faith" which seeks to domi­nate and to control and makes enemies of friends. 
Perhaps Notre Dame has chosen to fol­low not an artificial and vindictive hierarchy of beliefs but a vision of a true underlying belief which has been pur­posely obscured by invention and cir­cumstance. 
Change is difficult. It may be that the older generation of Catholics, sub­scribers to a by-gone age of cultural and religious division, are afraid to accept a new vision of humanity. It may be that they are fearful of discovering that through these many years they have been mistaken, that one does not need to control fellow community members to Jive in peace. 
I do not believe that Notre Dame's "Catholic character" will fade overnight into a seething mass of sinful secular debauchery. I do believe that it may with time develop into a truly catholic character, a character which will tran­scend religious and ethnic boundaries imposed by a divided and hateful soci­ety. 
It is not the dogma and artificial order of Catholicism that will elevate Notre Dame to a higher academic and moral stature; it is the belief in the only true rule of Christianity, "Love thy neighbor." 
Matthew Apple is a creative writing graduate student at Notre Dame. He can be reached at matthew.t. apple.l@nd. edu. 
NOIAJ l'UHAVE 70 !3UMPMY 
7l3N O'a00<-7HiiT~ FeUAH -70 TEN-THII<TY. ANP 8UUfANAN 7D NOON··· 
IAJOUWN'T/AKJI?K, 
Rf)'3£;, UJ& 60T 
PH!t..GMMM 
5WTTW7Hf3N... 
\ 
;ACCENT
page 8 Tuesday, January 30, 1996 
You, too, can cook meatless! 
Tired of the dining hall? Can't afford to hit the off-campus scene? Head to Meijer's for some ingredients and hit the dorm kitchenette for some vegetarian variety! 
Broccoli Bake 
1 package frozen chopped broccoli 
1/2 C. mayonnaise 
1/2 C. cream of mushroom soup 
1 egg, beaten 
1 1/2 C. grated cheese 
1 C. crushed crackers 
Cook broccoli according to package directions; drain and allow to cool. Combine mayo, soup, egg, and grated cheese. Stir in broccoli. Pour into a buttered casserole dish; sprinkle cracker crumbs on top. Bake at 325 degrees for 30 minutes. 
Cheesy Scalloped Potatoes 
4 cooked and slicked potatoes 
3 T. salad oil 
3 T. cornstarch 
1 t. salt 
1/4 t. paprika 
1/4 t. prepared mustard 
3 C. milk 
2 C. cheese, grated 
Layer potatoes in a greased casserole dish. Combine salad oil, cornstarch, salt, paprika, mustard, and milk in a saucepan. Bring to a boil while stirring constantly. Remove from heat and stir in cheese until melted. Pour over potatoes. Bake at 350 degrees for 35 minutes. 
Seasoned Sliced Potatoes 
Leave peelings on potatoes. Slice thinly. Spread oil on both sides and sprinkle with garlic and onion powder. Brown on both sides under oven's broiler. Cook longer for crispier potatoes. 
Fried Rice with Vegetables 
1 T. cooking oil 
1/2 C. onions, chopped 
1 C. cold cooked rice 
1 egg, beaten 
1 T. soy sauce 
1/4 t. salt 
1 C. chopped vegetables-carrots, celery, green 
peppers, tomatoes, etc. 
In a hot skillet, heat oil. Stirring constantly, cook onions until lightly browned. Add rice and saute. Beat together eggs, soy sauce, and salt. Add rice to mixture. Add vegetables, stirring constantly. 
No-Sugar Apple-Banana Delight 
2 1/2 C. unsweetened apple juice 
2 bananas 
5 T. cornstarch 
Blend bananas and apple juice in a blender. Blend in cornstarch. Stirring constantly, cook over medium heat until thickened. Arrange additional sliced bananas in the bottom of a serving dish. Pour in mixture. Chill until set. 
No-Sugar Fresh Fruit Pie 
3/4 C. unsweetened apple juice concentrate 
3/4 C. water 
1 T. lemon juice 
3 T. cornstarch 
4 C. diced fruit 
1 1/2 C. Grape Nuts cereal 
3/4 C. unsweetened apple juice concentrate 
In a saucepan, mix apple juice and water. Cook over medium low heat until thickened. Remove from heat and stir in lemon juice. Set aside to cool. Mix 3/4 C. apple juice concentrate with Grape Nuts. Let soak for 10 min­utes. Press into a 9-inch pie plate. Bake at 350 degrees for 12 minutes. Let cool. Gently fold apple mixture over diced fruit until well blended. Pour into shell and cool. 
Source: Where's Mom Now That I Need Her? by Betty Rae Frandsen, Kathryn J. Frandsen, and Kent P. Frandsen. 
Getting yol Vegetarianisr 
Beyond the 
many choices other than a salad, 
after a few days in a row. My f but I do not." Some non-vegetarians welcom 
We all love to complain about 
dining hall food, but what 
they tire of eating the same meal the vegetarian meals are a blessi
about students with limited just aren't prepared the way mom choices? 
'J was surprised that th
By BRIAN MOLINARO Accent Writer meal prepared just f01 
my school, I have to eat a
M
ording to Webster's College Dictionary, a vegetarian is, a person who does not eat or does not believe in eating not to go hungry every da eat, fish, fowl, or in some cases, any food derived from animals. "There is always at least one meal every day in the dining halls that fits the definition above. But how many people 
at Notre Dame actually look to see what this meal is, and 
how many people actually eat it? Not many, according to David Prentkowski, There is, therefore, good reas< the director of Notre Dame Food Services. Service money to vegetarian mea 
"According to our last survey, there is only Does this one meal satisfy the th1 about three percent of the student body campus? Should there be more th that actually are vegetarians." David Alverez, a visiting studenl Then why does Food Services spend so "surprised that there was a sepan 
much money making sure that there is at vegetarians. At my school, I have least one vegetarian meal every day in the not to go hungry every day." dining halls? "Food Services hopes that the So compared to other schools, 
vegetarian meals will appeal to the non-vege­job at keeping the vegetarian po arians on the campus as well," states Mr. the Notre Dame vegetarians feel a Prentkowski. "I am lucky that I like a lot of Saint Mary's, though it has a smaller states Parrot, "because otherwise student body to serve, also takes lot of alternatives. Besides salads care to provide for its vegetarian of choices like my friends have, lik population. The Dining Hall at According to Alverez and Parr SMC opens a salad bar at lunch good job. Mr. Prentkowski has be€ and dinner, and serves at least Food Services for six years, and one meatless meal as an entree meals have been served much Ion! 
or as a grill bar choice. So Notre Dame has been adequ. "I am glad that they (Food vegetarians in the dining halls f Services) do risk wasting food in good? order to have a vegetarian meal," says "They are not bad," says Parro James Parrot, a vegetarian freshman in Alumni cannot expect great things from Hall, "because you are cooking for so man: there are not expect to get a not that is topped \1 vegetables. T 
Finding 
pastures off-camp 
By DEBBIE WITSKEN Accent Writer 
F
or those who find garden burgers much more appetizing than hamburgers, the dining hall menu can occasionally be less than satisfying. True, there's usually a reasonable selection of "green dot" specials for vegetarians and health fanatics alike, but sometimes a little vari­ety is nice. Those searching for a little spice-or perhaps some tofu-in their diet can find it downtown at the corner of Wayne and South Michigan in a cozy little restaurant appropriately named Cornucopia 
This quaint little restaurant has a very casual, friendly atmosphere perfect for lunch with a 
few friends or dinner for two. The prices are perfect for the college student's budget (great for a cheap date!) with entrees ranging from three to tim dollars. Open for over twenty years and currently in its third location, Cornucopia's menu is geared towards natural and low-calorie food. 
W
e serve a broad range of people," says Cornucopia manager Roni Farkas. "We're try­ing to serve healthy food without preservatives." Don't let that scare you away; the menu boasts an array of creative, dishes ranging from quiche to quesadillas provid­ing great alternatives to the old "meat and potatoes" standby. 
I 
Still skep.tical? Even you carnivores out there can find something to tempt your taste buds. Several chicken dishes including Cornucopia's popular chicken salad are woven into the menu. So where's the beef, you ask? No problem. For those of you who love your meat, there's even a 
beef sloppy joe. And for you ordinary Joes, try one of their special salads, grilled cheese, burritos, nachos or even pizza, which is served on a pita and comes highly recom­mended. 
Tuesday, January 30, 1996 page 9 
:ACCENT 

r greens: at NDISMC 
alad bar... 
nnd that can get pretty boring are satisfying, though. If I want fresh, I will have a salad or some fruit." 
iends have plnnty of choices, e the diverse menu because · so often. They also feel that ng bncause the main courses makes them at home.  
ere was a separate the vegetarians. At lot of salads in order David Alverez Visiting Student  
n to allot a portion of Food Is. However, is this enough? ee percent of vngetarians on an just one meal? and vegetarian, says he was te meal prepared just for the o nat a lot of salads in order Notre Dame is doing a good JU!ation happy, but what do out the meals here? diiTnnmt vegetarian meals," then~ would not be a whole and pasta, thnre are not a lot ~~ thn deli or tacos." lt, Food Snrviens is doing a n tlw dirnetor of Notre Dame he says that the vegetarian rnr than he has been there. ltnly supplying rnnals for the 1r ynars. but are the meals t, "simple, hut not bad. You 'l dining hall. I mean, when pnopln, you can-cooked dish ith frnsli  

But what about the grah-n-go's? Do peanut butter and jelly and three-cheese sandwiches suffice? There are plenty of choices for the non-vegetarians, but choices for vegetarians are very limited. What happens to the vegetarians who have no time for lunch, but are very hungry? Do they starve? 
"I usually get a lot of fruit and/or chips," says Parrot. "I get tired of three cheese and peanut butter and jelly. When I do not have time, I get a lot of snacks or wait until dinner. However, I am not that upset that the grah-n-go's are not that great. I did not expect the school to cater to vegetarians. So I am happy with the fact that there is a separate meal for vegetari­ans with every main course." 
"I feel kind of bad for James," says John Norton, a friend of Parrot. "I can change sandwiches everyday, but he is stuck with the same ones day after day." 
The votes are in, and the result is that cam­pus Food Services does a good job in dealing with the three percent of the student body who are vegetarians. They give them an adequate varinty of meals and a few other choic­es to select from in the dinning halls, and despite the little variety in grah-n-go's, vegetarians seem to be happy with what has been provided for them. Non-vege­tarians also appreciate a meat­less change of pace. Notre Dame and Saint Mary's truly have done all that they can to satisfy even the lowest percentage of eaters. 
Now if only they could start to per­fect the food the way grand­ma does .... 
reener 
• 
s at Cornucopia 
he more daring might want to sample one of the house specialties such as Malfalli, which according to the menu are, "croquettes of spinach, Parmesan cheese, eggs and bread crumbs delicately herbed and smothered with Italian 
nushroom and tomato sauce." If that still doesn't suit your appetite try another 'avorite such as spinach lasagna or homus pita wedges. 
Other popular dishes range from the tofu ~ornucopia omele~ with mushrooms, seal­ions, green peppers, black olives, cauliflower, broccoh and tomatoes to .the 
Cornucopia, an open-faced sandwich with cheese, guacamole, mushrooms, scallions, ~and fresh alfalfa sprouts. Every night a special item is added to the menu (the .stroganoff and cabbage roll-up looked pretty good the ot?er night) and any of these dishes can be eaten at one of the cute tables or booths or earned out. 
he dessert section-always a favorite-includes everything: des~ert crepes, fruit shakes, pineapple carrot cake, fruit cheesecakes, IC~­cream sundaes and carob chip cookies. Even the beverages are deh­
ly the herbal teas and freshly pressed juices. Don't let the n appearance of the apple juice turn you ofT; it really tastes like you're king an apple! All in all, a very appealing menu to the wallet as well as the 
Cornucopia scores high in every aspect. ~he atmosphe~e is warm and friendly, the restaurant quiet but not entirely empty and the wmtresses are mce and h~lpful but not smother-The food is delicious. Patron Sandra Zapata says, "Not only IS the atmosphere pleasant but the food is delicious and makes for a pleasant dining experience." Cornucopia gets four forks up. 
highs and 
ows of caffeine 
By LIZA NYKIEL Medical Minute Corre$pondem 
the beginning of every semester, I always get the naive. feeling that my class load couldn't possibly e as bad as it was the previous semester. The ·.. · .. · . are laid back, the readings for classes are levels are down and all is right with the it happens. That first round of tests are ·quicker than you could have imagined, and over the amount of work that hns to be week i6 over. All of a sudden, stress lev­
about you, but when I know I have a int~m>e. studying, I have that knee· '"~V'-ll.t~,~m "'"'"" (boy, did that sound like a So. l trek over to Meijer for my taken me four years to be able ··. ·. a feeling the reason I keep urtne-,cmore!a soft drink is that magic that gives me that extra --·-·~·-the breakfast of studying 
&qtua.Uy a drug found naturally in about AuvA~fi-··· types of plants. along with such ne­coffee, cocoa beans. tea leaves and cola also i6 added to a. number of over-the· 'Co1!lfl1ler m'edica1tiOIIS such a'S pain killers and cold reme­central nervous system, caffeine, in , enhances our alertness, sensory 
and endurance while at the same time uuuuu!S.UUilJ;{ our fatigue. As many of you may have already experienced when studying with the Dew. <:a.f­feine is also· a mild diuretic, which will increase urine ~>utput In this way, cafi'eine keeps you alert, and slightly annoyed. by forcing you to walk to the bathroom five times every hour... 
There are some drawbacks to consuming too much eaf· (eine, however, and they're really, really not conducive . to studying. Physiological problems associated with too caffeine· include irritability, nervousness, t\nxlety. u"J'c"''""~"s, irregular heartbeats and sometimes 'tru,mror!ii On a m.ore serious note, excessive amounts of ,cttl:felne have been associated with heart disease. No, ca.:tl'eiille can't heart disease, hut people who suffer with their heart are encouraged to stay caffeine because of its effects. The drug can art rate, thus intensifying any heart ar­
rhinhlttlULS or irregular heart rhythms. 
E
xcess c(l.ffeine has also been shown to increase ·· . blood· cholesterol. tncers can also be worsened by .· ···· · caffeine because of its en~ects on increasing the secr.eq()n ofgastric juices. Surprisingly, decaf coffee has the same effect as does regular coffee when it comes to ·ulcer. Irritation. Consuming excess amounts of caiTeine .· while you're pregnant, ladies, may cause birth defects in the fetus, as tests with rats have shown. Bven while br~ast feeding, caffeine ean he passed to the baby and 
· have negative effects on it. As much benefit as caffeine affords us,it can have some serious effects if consumed large amounts. 
You alWays have to keep in mind though, in the midst 
• pf )lour studying marathon. that the end is always just a few days away. Don't be surprised if you collapse on your couch after your test because you don't feel all that hot. .There actually are withdrawal effects from consumption ··'OOarge amounts of caffeine. short-lived as they may be. >These srmptoms include withdrawal, headache, lel;har· 
gy; nervousness, depression and, on the rare OC\~as1ons, ;o,aUsea and vomiting, · 
11 
·.I.· ·~. fu.o ~.gh~. l~~~ldn i~cl~d~a~~~~ul~1f~ar~~~~o!0 ~~k~h~ 
· . ·· different amounts (in milligrams) of caffeine found ln a variety of late-night favorites. 
COFFEE is a good source, but it depends on how you make it ... drip coffee has the most (125mg). P(m~olated coffee is a close second (110mg) and instant has the least (32mg), excluding decaf. TEA cioesn't have as much caf­feine, but it still depends on how it's made ... wlth a five minute brew having the most {40mg), and instant having the least (20mg). As for the soft drinks, Dr. Pepper hu.s the most (50mg), with Mountain Dew and Tab at ~tbout the same (40mg). Surprisingly. diet colas have more caffeine than regular colu.s. 
Liza Nykiel would like to raise her can of Mountain Dew and wish efJ(~ryone luck on their first set oftests this semester. 
-~ --~-­
page 10 The Observer· SPORTS Tuesday, January 30, 1996 
•NBA 
Showtime: Magic to face Warriors in second return 
Associated Press In his comeback, Johnson is was unavailable to play that Johnson coached the final 16 Harris, in his second season expected to spend most of his night in Philadelphia but was games for the Lakers two years with the Lakers, said he was 
INGLEWOOD 
time at power forward. not missed, as Johnson led the ago, but was unsuccessful in uncertain as to Johnson's role 
Magic Johnson was sur­
"We had a few guys on the team to a clinching fourth victo­that role,. He retired from with the team. 
rounded by reporters when he team who called him and told ry in the best-of-seven series. coaching 5-11, saying at the "We'll just have to see," the arrived at practice and, with a him we want him back," the That began Johnson's amaz­time he just could not handle coach said. "Earvin now is 
broad smile, told them he 
Lakers Eddie Jones said. "What ing run, a run that might have the attitudes of several players. going to be one of the playerswould be available for ques­he brings to the team is a win­been unbroken until today had In June 1994, he became a on the team. Basically, he'll tions after the session. 
ner's attitude." be not contracted the virus. part-owner of the Lakers. have to perform to get minutes, "Yes, I am back, and I'll see Johnson left Michigan State Even though he had retired, Rosen said today Johnson had like the other players. I would you guys later," he said. "Hey, after his sophomore season in Johnson not only played in the sold his 5 percent interest in certainly expect him to. 
I'm back. It's that time. I have 1979 and joined the Lakers as 1992 All-Star game but was the the Lakers back to Dr. Jerry "He's a team member. All the to go to work." 
the NBA's No. 1 draft choice. game's star, winning MVP hon­Buss. NBA players are not team members are on the same With that, he entered Gersten Johnson, who led Michigan ors. He was then a key member allowed to own any part of a basis. There's no special thing Pavilion on the Loyola campus, 
State to the NCAA champi­of the U.S. Olympic basketball league team. for Earvin. He's going to be like with reporters racing to follow onship in his final season, "Dream Team" in Barcelona Rumors of Johnson's latest the rest of the guys. He's goinghim in. 
helped the Lakers win the NBA that summer. comeback surfaced two weeks to play all the games. There's 
Before his retirement, 
crown as a rookie. In September 1992, Johnson ago, but Rosen issued a firm no special situation for Earvin. 
Johnson led the Lakers to five In one of the most spectacu­said he was coming back and denial. Things heated up again Basically, it's up to me." 
NBA championships in 12 sea­lar games in league history, the played in several exhibition late last week and it was obvi­As far as Tuesday night's sons and won three most valu­sixth and final game of the games before deciding to retire ous then that this was a dif­game against Golden State was able player awards. Often re­
1980 NBA Finals, he played all again, just before the start of ferent situation. concerned, Harris said: "We'll ferred to as the world's tallest five positions and had 22 the season. He did so after sev­When asked when Johnson put him in there and see how point guard, Johnson retired as points, 15 rebounds and seven eral NBA players complained made his final decision, Rosen he does. This team, Golden the NBA career assist leader, a 
assists. about his comeback, expressing said: "I can't give you the exact State, has been beating us like 
opposition since passed by 
Kareem Abdul-Jabbar, the concern over the risk of catch­moment, but in the last couple a rented mule the last couple of Utah's John Stockton. 
NBA's all-time leading scorer, ing the AIDS virus from him. of days." years." 
Knicks survive Heat Hornets sting Cavs 

By CHRIS SHERIDAN team visited New York in December, but Associated Press 
turned the ball over and Terrell Associated Press he got a much milder reaction this time Brandon's layup with 2:03 left put the and did his best to keep a low profile. CHARLOTTE, N.C. Cavaliers up 84-81. NEW YORK He was booed for only three seconds Kenny Anderson's running bank shot Five consecutive points by JohnsonPat Riley got booed so little in his sec­when Miami's lineup was introduced, with 0.6 seconds left lifted Charlotte to 
enabled the Hornets to tie the score atond trip back to Madison Square and he kept his eyes on a play chart in an 88-86 victory over the Cleveland 86 with 44.9 seconds to go. BrandonGarden that he was all jokes and smiles his lap rather than respond to the Cavaliers Monday night. missed a short jumper and Michael
afterward -even though his team lost. crowd. Anderson dribbled off time at the top Cage came up empty on a follow shot.
Patrick Ewing scored 34 points and With the season now six weeks older, of the key before driving left and shoot­
The Hornets called timeout with 18.3
Hubert Davis had 19 Monday night as Knicks fans have their own worries. ing over Michael Cage for the game­seconds left, setting up Anderson'sthe New York Knicks beat the Miami Many don't believe the aging Knicks winner. Larry Johnson blocked Danny heroics.Heat for the third time this season, 94-have enough talent to compete with the Ferry's 3-point attempt at the buzzer to 
Anderson finished with 16 points.
85. league's elite teams, and the fans aren't preserve the victory and send Cleveland Johnson had 20 points and 17"There wasn't 36 stories before the shy about letting them know it. to its fourth loss in five games. 
rebounds, while Geiger added 18 points. 
game, there wasn't a countdown, there The Knicks won their third in a row, After five ties and five lead changes in Brandon scored 22 points and Lang 14. 
weren't any banners and the people but they didn't pull away from Miami the fourth quarter, the Cavaliers opened Geiger scored eight of the Hornets' were rather subdued tonight. I have until the end of the fourth quarter. up a 82-79 lead with 3:44 remaining on last 10 points in the first half and tied
nothing but respect for Knicks fans, and a short jumper by Antonio Lang. The
"Why knock them?" Riley said in ref­the score at 44 with two free throws. 
one day it might be normal again, I erence to the Knicks. "They're 12 Hornets had two opportunities to pull 
Brandon put the Cavaliers ahead 46-44
hope," Riley said. games over .500. I'd love to be where ahead after a dunk from Matt Geiger got at halftime with two free throws withRiley was booed lustily when his new them within 82-81, but Dell Curry
they are." 7.9 seconds left. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from B a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. 
Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
Classifieds 
NOTICES 
International Film Festival Coming Soon! Cushing Auditorium 
"II Postino" Feb 4 "The Promise" Feb 5 Montgomery Theatre 
"Tatie Danielle" Feb 6 "EI Mariachi" Feb 7 "Like Water for Chocolate" Feb 8 all movies at 7:30 ...$2.00 
SPRING BREAK! With only 1 week to live, DON'T BLOW IT! Organize group-TRAVEL FREE Jamaica/Cancun $399 Bahamas $359 Florida $109 FREE INFO packet. Call Sunsplash 1-800-426-7710 
Spring Break Bahamas Party Cruise! 7 Days $279! Includes 15 Meals & 6 Free Parties! Great Beaches/Nightlife! Leaves From Ft. Lauderdale! http://www.spring­breaktravel.com 1-800-678-6386 
Cancun & Jamaica Spring Break Specials! 111% Lowest Price Guarantee! 7 Nights Air & Hotel From $429! Save $100 On Food/Drinks! http://www.spring­breaktravel.com 1-800-678-6386 
Spring Break! Panama City! 8 Days Room With Kitchen $1191 Walk to Best Bars! 7 Nights In Key West $2591 Cocoa Beach Hilton (Great Beaches-Near Disney) $1691 Day1ona $1391 http://www.spring­breaktravel.com. 1-800-678-6386 
ILOST & FOUND I 
Found a unique 1 8K gold pin last semester. Please write a full dis­cription to P.O.Box 111 ND, 46556. 
LOST!!!!! 
I.D. bracelet. Says "Christopher". Reward tor return. Please call, sen­timental value. Call Chris, @ 1662 
Switched: If you have the wrong turquoise double-breasted jacket from the Lewis/Keenan formal, give me a call. I have yours. 
Andy X1765 
Lost: A green, Columbia Bugaboo Ski Jacket from the coat room at Senior Bar last Thusday night. It had a purple, inner liner and a ski lift ticket attached. I ended up with a very similar jacket that was hung near mine. If you have rnine or want yours, please call Travis at 
X2091. 
WANTED 
ND/SMC/Holy Cross Students 
PART-TIME WORK. 10.25/start 
Flexible hours around classes. All 
majors. Scholarships/Internships 
CALL 282-2357 
TEACH ENGLISH ABROAD-Make up to $25-$45/hr. teaching basic conversational English abroad. Japan, Taiwan, and S. Korea. Many employers provide room & board + other benefits. No teaching background or Asian lan­guages required. For more informa­tion call: (206) 971-3570 ext. J55842 
NATIONAL PARKS HIRING­Positions are now available at National Parks, Forests & Wildlife Preserves. Excellent benefits + bonuses! Call: 1-206-971-3620 ext. N55844 
WANTED: Good people to earn 
money by becoming reps for 
EXCEL Telecommunications. Call 
299-1999 evenings. 
ALASKA EMPLOYMENT-Students Needed! Fishing Industry. Earn up io $3,000-$6,000+ per month. Room and Board! Transportation! Male or Female. No experience necessary. Call (206)971-3510 ext A55843 
ZAPPA FANS I am writing the entry on F.Z. for the Dictionary of American Biography. I want to listen to some of his albums before beginning library research. It you have any FZ albums and would be willing to let me tape them, please call277-9071 
Summer Camp Employment Minnesota co-ed summer recre­ational camp seeks qualified indi­viduals to work as cabin counselors who can also instruct in various activites. Representative will be at SMC LeMans on Feb.1 from 10-2 and at ND Dooley, O'Hara Lounge on Feb.2 from 10-2. Questions? Call Camp Foley at 218-543-6161 or email at sbfhouse@uslink.net 
???????????????????? 
NEED A PLACE FOR THE SUM­
MER? GREAT APARTMENT TO 
SUBLET-TWO BATH, TWO BED­
ROOMS, ETC. AVAILABLE JUNE 
-AUGUST. 
CALL 273-1738. 
???????????????????? 
Computer Science student capable 
of programming excel!. Earn a 
great reference for your resume 
and Subway Subs for your time. 
Call 289-1288, ask for the General 
Manager. 
FOR RENT 
BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY 
219-291-7153 
HOMES FOR RENT 
232-2595 
TRUE BEAUTY 3 MILES TO CAMPUS 237-9718 
TICKETS 
1 or 2 tickets to Billy Joel appearance Jan.30. Call277-6392. 
CASH FOR BILLY JOEL TIX! Top Dollar for your tickets! Call Chris 256-9728 any1ime. 
PERSONAL 
0D0D000D0D0D0o0D0D000 
QUALITY COPIES, QUICKL VIII THE COPY SHOP LaFortune Student Center Phone 631-COPY 
0o0o0o0o0o0o0o0o0o0o0 
Sign up for the Wednesday Lunch Fast in the dining hall today during lunch and dinner. Miss only one meal a week to help those who are hungry. If you miss the sign-up call Meghan x4172 or Amy x2992 with your name and ID number 
ATTENTION MUSIC LOVERS: Have you ever wanted to be on the radio? Here's your chancel WSND-FM is looking for announc­ers to fill various classical shifts. No experience needed. Call Arny at631-7342 for more info. 
Hey! Why won't those pesky 
Packers just go away? 
Now, they're on Mad About You. 
Sore losers. 
Out of the 'blue', look who's on top 
of the ACC, consistently the best 
conference in college basketball. 
And you thought they were just 
going to be the Dante show. 
Next time you are in UP Mall go say hi to Amy at Payless 
SMC-ND 23RD ANNUAL SUMMER PROGRAMS IN LONDON (MAY 22-JUNE 21) AND ROME (JUNE 16-JULY 15) TRAVEL IN IRELAND, SCOTT, FR., GER., SWITZ., AND ITALY COURSES IN PHOTO., BUEC, HIST., BIO., SOC., AND ITALIAN. MEETING FEB. 5, 7:00 PM CAR­ROLL HALL (SMC)-INFO. CALL DR. BLACK 284-4460/ 272-3729. 
Grab 'n Go Bags are coming! This is your chance to make a difference and earn a special bonus for the rest of the semester. Bags will be on sale in both dining halls starting Jan. 31. Brought to you by Lewis Hall. 
If you look up "punk'' in the dictio­nary, there is a picture of Deion Sanders. 
Despite the poor officiating and the errant throws of Neil O'Donnell, the Terrible Towel® will wave proudly. Dallas got damn lucky 
They're closing down the textile mill across the rail road track foreman says these jobs are going boys, and they ain't coming back. 
Hey Deion, broken leg or neck? Boat. 
Mayor Goldie Wilson. I like the sound of that. Special events cor­respondent. I like the sound of that. 
The 1996 'Sugar' Bowl. Not soon to be forgotten. 
To unproductive Sundays and big instruments. 
If it goes in blue, you better believe it's coming out bluell 
John, You're all that and a Grab­and-Go ... Plus an extra item. 
Here is to scaring poor Zahrn boys senseless on Friday nights. It is definately a memory. Let's add it to our list. 
LOLAPALANCAIBUSHWACKER SATURDAY NIGHT BAT MANOR BE THERE 
A-Well we finally did it. Drinkin' with you was the best. I'm always will­ing to pay a dollar for a shot. 
-K 
It's easy as 1-2-3 
M-Here is to big boys, I mean HUGE boys. 
Who doesn'tlove posterchildren. 
Why do bad things always happen to good people like us 
A-
You are a life saver. You called at just the right time. Thanks for lis­
tening. I am still waiting for that 
good thing to corne my way. 
As I walk through the valley of the shadow of death, ... -Whoopi Goldberg Sister Act 
Does anyone have any Kleenax? 
I stand by my question. 
One more day 'till Black 47! 
"Whip me, beat me, make me write bad checks!" 
Hey B-ball fans! Looking for a way ~spend all that free time? We've got just the thing for youl Show your support for the NBA's brightest rising star. Join the BRENT PRICE FAN CLUB! 
Hey Pat, How 'bout them Bull...etsl 

~.-----------~------------------~----------------------------------------------------------~--------~--------------------------------~ 
Tuesday, January 30, 1996 The Observer • SPORTS 
• SUPER BOWL 
Free agency threatens dynasty 
By DENNE H. FREEMAN 
Associated Pross 
TEMPE, Ariz. 
The Dallas Cowboys are mak­ing a bid to be the team of the 1990s, but owner Jerry Jones must work some free agent magic under the salary cap if they are to remain dominant. 
lie has some key players out there on the open market including the MVP of the Cowboys' 27-17 Super Bowl win over the Pittsburgh Steelers which gave the club a third NFL title this decade. 
"We were a better team in 1993 and a better team in 1994," coach Barry Switzer said Monday. "But that's life in the free agent era. It promotes parity."' 
And that makes it more dilli­cult to sign key players, such as Larry Brown, whose value has skyrocketed with his playoff performances against Green Bay and Pittsburgh. 
Brown, known as the corner­back opposite Deion Sanders, made a late interception to save Dallas' 38-27 win over the Green Bay Packers in the Nl'C championship game. Then the former Texas Christian star came right back to make two key interceptions in the Super Bowl victory. 
"I hope everything works out because I came up with the Cowboys as a rookie and I don't want to leave now that the going is good," Brown said. 
Sanders said the Cowboys just have to keep Brown. 
"Larry is one of the best cor­ners in the game," Sanders said. "lie's going to get com­p!msated in the offseason like a great corner, and I hope he's with the Cowboys. lie is unbe­lievable. lie should be in the Pro Bowl." 
Brown. who might command 

Moonwalk 
, Come to LNO on Friday, Febru­ary 2, and experience what it is like to walk on the moon! The cost is only .50¢ and all funds raised will be donated to Special Olympics. 

Actual height of Mama Dragon is 22 ft. tall. 

Friday, February 2 

$1.00 Donation at the Door 
7:00PM -4:00AM Joyce Center Be a Real Champion, 631-6100 
All LNO Medals Were Donated by
Support Special Olympics! 
the Notre Dame Alumni Association 
a salary as high as $1 million, was thought to be expendable because of the expected return of Kevin Smith. 
The latter sustained torn Achilles tendon in the season­opener against the New York Giants. 
Jones spent $60 million in bonuses and signings to get the 1995 team to its ultimate goal, a fifth Super Bowl title for the organization. 
The Cowboys have 35 players under contract next season at a cost of about $40 million. 
The current salary cap is at $37 million, and probably will jump to $40 million next sea­son. 
Some players can't be signed by Dallas. 
The best team that money could buy has several other big names who are eligible to go elsewhere, including Pro Bowl strong safety Darren Woodson, linebackers Hobert Jones, Dixon Edwards and Darrin Smith, who made a smooth $100,000 bonus when the Cowboys won the Super Bowl. 
"We'll do everything we can to keep Larry Brown and we only have X-amount of dollars," Switzer said. "It's going to be tight lit." 
Smith could be Miami-bound. 
Smith is a University of Miami product, and will bring some strong bids because of his speed at the outside linebacker spot. 
Woodson could be very expensive for the Cowboys. Jones could use the franchise tag on him. If so, he would get the average of the top five salaries at that position and that could be close to $2 mil­lion. 
"It's a priority to keep Darren," Jones said. "Obviously we can't sign ev­erybody. We'll have to make some very tough decisions." 
Defensive tackle Russell Maryland, a former first-round draft pick under the Jimmy Johnson regime, also will be available and could end up at Miami with Johnson his former college and pro coach. 
''I'll just have to see what happens," said the Cowboys' top. run-stopper. "It would be hard to leave the only profes­sional team I've ever played for." 
Then there's the re-signing of All-Pro running back Emmitt Smith to consider. Smith has one year left on his contract, and has let it be known he wants a deal before the the sea­son starts in 1996, 
"Jerry has my number back in Florida and I'll be waiting for him to call it," said Smith, who was off to the Pro Bowl along with Nate Newton, Mark Tuinei, Larry Allen, Michael Irvin, Charles Haley, and Woodson. ''I'd let to get every­thing settled before the season starts." 
Haley, who signed a four-year contract before the season started, will leave it up to his doctors whether he returns next year. 
'Til just have to see what the doctors say'" said Haley, who has a record five Super Bowl rings. "It's hard to leave this team behind but I want to make sure my back will be strong." 
Not making the trip to Hawaii for the Pro Bowl was quarter­back Troy Aikman, who will celebrate his third Super Bowl win by getting some chips removed from his elbow in early February. 
The Cowboys had a late after­noon charter flight back to Dallas where city fathers were planning a celebration parade. 
page 11 
Two years, two close losses for Steelers 
By ALAN ROBINSON 
Associated Press 
TEMPE, Ariz. 
Last season, it was three yards. This time, it was two in­terceptions. 
The Pittsburgh Steelers keep coming so tantalizing close to championships, only to watch their seasons end in frustrat­ing, what-if failures. 
What if Neil O'Donnell had completed that pass on fourth­and-3 in last season's AFC championship game? What if he hadn't thrown those two interceptions in Sunday's 27-17 Super Bowl loss to the Dallas Cowboys? 
What if? How come? Why? When will the Steelers win the big game, and not just leave their fans clutching onto empty dreams and the fast-fading memories of the 1970s? 
Last year's AFC champi­onship game loss to the Chargers was so bad, some Steelers didn't erase it from 
·• SPORTS BRIEFS Women's Lacrosse: Pratice will be held Monday and Wednesday at 10:15 pm at Loftus beginning January 29. Mandatory informational meeting Feburary 5 at 9:15 in the Notre Dame Room, Lafortune. Questions, Call Allison 239-7924. Sho Rin Ryu Karate: 
Students  are  instructed  
according  to  traditional  
Okinawan  techniques.  

Semester long course that meests in Rockne Rm. 219 Tuesdays and Thursdays from 6:00·7:30 PM starting Wednesday, January 31. You must register in advance at RecSports and the fee is $15.00. A demostration will be held Tuesday, Jamuary 30. at 6:30 PM in Rockne Rm. 
219. Call 1~6100 for more info. Open to all NO Students, faculty and staff. 
Late Night Olympics X: Late Night Olympics is sched· uled for Friday, Feb. 2 from 
7:00 p.m. • ??? at the Joyce Center. The proceeds from this all-night sports extrava· gapza go to benefit the St. Joseph County Speical Olympics. For for information contact your Hall Representative or call RecSports.at 1x6100. 
ESPN will be filming the Saint Mary's basketball game vs. Lake Forest (7 p.m.) on Tuesday, Feb. 6. There wlll be a pep rally before the game 
NTERNATIONAL WORKING 0PPORT~.~ITY
I 
.OBCENGLISH! ® I 
CONVERSATION SCHOOL 
is seeking university graduates for a one year teaching position in Japan. Attractive salary, benefits and travel opportunities. Japanese Language Skills Not Necessary. 
RECRUITING DATES: February 5, 6, and 7 at Career and Placement Services. Ope11 to all majors. Sign~ups Open This Week 
their minds for weeks. This loss probably wasn't as devastating emotionally, but undoubtedly will do some damage. 
And in a sport where rosters, team chemistry and momen­tum can change as quickly as the next free agent signing, the Steelers must wonder how many more tomorrows are ahead for a team that keeps wasting today. 
"We came here to win the game," coach Bill Cowher said Sunday. "Not to play not to lose the game." 
But they didn't, even though Bam Morris outrushed Emmitt Smith, O'Donnell outpassed Troy Aikman and the Steelers' defense brought back memo­ries of the Steel Curtain with several critical second-half stands. 
"This really hurts down deep inside," linebacker Levon Kirkland said. "But I can't apologize for the way we played." 
beginning at 6 p.m. Please come and show your SMC spirit. 
Jazz Dance: A Jazz Dane class will be offered on Monday and Wednesday evenings from 6: 30·7:45 in Rocke Rm. 219. All levels are welcome, but space is limited. You must register in advance in the RecSports office and the fee is $30.00. There will be an information session on Tuesday, Jan. 30 at 6:30 p.m. in Rockne Rm. 219. Sign-ups begin Wed. Jan. 31 at 8:00 
a.m. in the RecSports office. For more info. call 1x6100. Open to all NO students, facul­ty and staff. 
Cross Country Ski Clinics: RecSports will be sponsoring two clinics on Saturday, Feb. 
3. The elinics will be at 10:00 
a.m. and 12:30 p.m. The fee for the clinic is $5.00 with an additional $2.00 rental fee for the skis. Register in advanee at RecSports. For more info, call 1x6100. Open to all NO students. faculty and staff. 
Mountain Biking Club: Meeting Feb. 8, 7:00 p.m. in LaFortune. All levels wei· come. Contact Patrick van den Broeke with questions 236·7266. 
Intercollegiate llowling: Any students of Notre Dame or Saint Mary's who are inter· ested in intercollegiate bowl· ing competition, please con­tact Jason at 4x1065 
· 

page 12 The Observer· SPORTS 
•NHl 
Fitzpatrick stifles Penguins 
ByJOHN PACENTI 
Associated Press 
MIAMI 
Florida coach Doug MacLean said he would go with the hot goaltender and that meant Mark Fitzpatrick. 
The backup goaltender, mak­ing this third start in four games, shut down Mario Lemieux and Pittsburgh's high­scoring offense as Panthers ended the Penguins' four-game winning streak with a 2-1 victo­ry Monday night. _ 
Lemieux was held without a point for only the second time in 42 games this season. 
Fitzpatrick made 23 saves as Florida's defense found a way to slow Lemieux and Jaromir Jagr, who had combined for nine points in two previous Panther losses to Pittsburgh this season. Jagr had the Penguins' only goal midway through the third period. 
Florida beat the Penguins for just the second time in 10 games. 
Fitzpatrick learned he was starting against Pittsburgh on Sunday when coach Doug MacLean called him at home 
during the Super Bowl. 
"We shut them down," Fitzpatrick said. "We gave up only four shots in the first pe­riod. It's nice to get to play." 
Florida surprised Pittsburgh by out-shooting the Penguins 33-24. 
"Pittsburgh always gives you lots of trouble," MacLean said. "But we collapsed the middle and they didn't get many sec­ond chances." 
Gord Murphy put the Panthers ahead 1-0 with a slap­shot 11 seconds into a power play at 2:52 of the opening period. 
It was the eighth goal of the season for the defenseman, who left the game in the third period after crashing into the boards. He is day-to-day with a sprained ankle. 
Penguins goaltender Tom Barrasso got tied up with team­mate Niel Wilkinson and Florida's Scott Mellanby on the play. 
The Panthers are 23-4-4 when they score first and 19-0­2 when leading after the first period. ­
Florida went into a defensive shell after the first goal. squan-Tuesday, January 30, 1995 
• 

Eberz leads 'Nova to overtime win 
Senators end skid, edge Blues 
Associated Press 
KANATA. Ontario 
The Ottawa Senators ended their NHL-record 17-game home winless streak Monday night, beating the St. Louis Blues 4-2 on a goal and two as­sists by Alexei Yashin. 
The Senators, whose overall 9-37-2 mark is the worst in the league, are on their third coach, second general manager and second rink since last win­ning on home ice Oct. 26 at the Ottawa Civic Centre. 
Ottawa won for the first time in the new Palladium on the western fringes of suburbia, but heavy snow squalls con­tributed to the smallest crowd in six Palladium dates -just 
13,125 in the 18,500-seat building. 
Those in attendance gave Ottawa a standing ovation throughout the final minute of play. 
Along with Yashin, the Senators were helped by two disallowed St. Louis goals and one Ottawa goal that probably shouldn't have counted. 
Dale Hawerchuk scored both St. Louis goals. leaving him just one shy of 500 in his 15-year NHL career. Daniel Alfredsson, Steve Duchesne and Ted Drury had the other Ottawa goals. 
St. Louis lost despite out­shooting Ottawa 30-25. Yashin, with his third goal in five games, gave Ottawa an 
I Please Recycle the Observer I 
I I 

...it's live, it's Iunny, it's different...'~ ~., H~YoiP.. ()l~V 
~~~~~ '• ----~ 
~ ~'~~~ ~ ~~~·-,,,.,,.mo''''' 
~ '-J~\t~'-COMEDY& 
Chinese -American ~ ~..D GR£AT Restall;rant and 
f~ •.,uALL Cocktad Lounge 
~ ~'I ft Authentic Stechuan, Mandenn & Hunan Cutsme 
. Bar and Restauraunt open 7 days a week 
Lunches starting at__ $4.25 Dinners starting at __ $5.95 Banquet rooms available for up yo 200 
130 Dixie Way N.,South Bend (next to Randall's Inn) 
\'ull'd Bnt ( hil'nt,tl RL"~I.tur.tnl in l\\ichi,tn.t h, ,\lichiww i\'oll' 
dering four straight power plays, including a five-minute opportunity in the second. Barrasso was a big reason why and finished with 31 saves. 
The Panthers went up 2-0 when Rob Niedermayer's shot from just inside the blue line wiggled between Barrasso's legs and slowly rolled into the net at 7:57 of the third. 
Players said the win was important because Florida heads out on a four-game road trip. 
"We needed to take advan­tage of the homestand," Niedermayer said. 
Pittsburgh ended Fitzpatrick's bid for a seventh career shutout when Jagr scored at 9:43. 
But the Penguins never got another clear shot at Fitzpatrick as the Panthers de­fensemen -particularly Terry Carkner -kept Pittsburgh players tied up in the neutral zone and behind the net for much of the rest of the game. 
"We expected to be a tight game," Penguins coach Ed Johnston said. "We had our opportunities and they (the P<tnthers) played hard and you have to give the credit." 
early lead at 3:59 of the first period with a long, high wrist­shot over the glove hand of Grant Fuhr. 
Hawerchuk tied the score before the period ended when his short chip shot banked off Ottawa goalie Damian Rhodes' blocker and into the net. It was the former 50-goal scorer's ninth goal in 47 games. 
Duchesne and Hawerchuk scored early in the second peri­od. Alfredsson put Ottawa ahead 3-2 on a controversial goal with 20 seconds left in the middle frame, scoring as Yashin hulled over Fuhr. 
Drury slipped a shot under Fuhr at 4:21 of the third period on a fine feed from Anti Tormanen. 
game --• _ • failed to score··<! fi~!d goa_lill the extra period and mis~:~.ed four of eight free throws. , 
The Orangemen, who trailed by nine points with 7:55 left in regulation, had one last chance t() tie when Todd Burgan grabbed a missed free throw by Jqbn Wallace with 28 seconds to play and Syracuse trailing 72-69. 
Syracuse called two time­outs while running the clock down but Wallace bounced a 25-footer ofthe backboard with less than a second left. 
Eberz, who finished with 14 points, added two free throws anQ Alvin WUli!lms hit a fall­away bank shot from the foul line to finish the scoring for Villanova (17;.3, 8-2), which won its fourth straight game. 
Wallace had 21 of Syracuse's 31 second-half points and finished with 31. 
Kerry Kittles had 26 points to lead Villanova, although he 
_;;;:::::::::::..;;;;;~:-----. 
\~day~~:~y;[.:::ISATION 
Moreau Center/O'Laughlin Auditorium Student Tickets: $3 Adults: $8 
did not score after the 7:55 mark in the second half. 
Jason Lawson blocked Wallace's shot down low and then Otis Hill's follow shot in the lane with 10 seconds to play in regulation. Alvins Williams made one of two free throws to give Villanova a 65­63 lead with 8.8 seconds to play. 
Lazarus Sims pushed the ball upcourt and hit a driving jumper in the lane -over Williams at the buzzer to send the game into overtime. 
The Orangemen trailed 59­48 with 7:55 to play after Kittles hit a 3-pointer from the left wing. 
They outscored Villanova 11-2 to close the gap to 61-59 with 4:08 to go. 
After a 3-pointer by Eberz, Wallace made two free throws and with 1:05 to play followed up Burgan's air ball to make it 64-63. 
Kittles scored nine points in the first six minutes of the second half to lead a Villanova spurt that turned a two~point halftime deficit into a 49-40 lead with 14:04 to go. 
Burgan had 11 points and was the only other Orangemen to reach double figures. 
Syracuse hit 5-of-8 3-point· ers in the opening half en route to a 34-32 halftime lead. 
I t4 j'lt,q {i I STEAMBOAT VA•LIBEAVER CREEK HILTON HEAD ISLAND 
• PER PmSOH 0EPEN04HG ()jj OESnNATIOH /lliW OATiS /UHGTI< CJi STAY. 
1~800.;. SIINCII4.S·E 
TOLL ~ INFtlRw•TION & KSdV.TIOIIIS Dl-Mil TOM WEI 1m At. 

-~~~----­
--------------------------------~--------------------------------~­
'Iuesday, January 30, 1996 The Observer • SPORTS 
• MEN'S TENNIS 
Tennis squad calms 'Canes 
By JOE CAVATO Spom Writer 
This past week, the Notre Dame's men's tennis team was tested three times. And, three times the Irish passed with fly­ing colors. 
After defeating Ohio State 7 • 0, last Thursday the Irish host· ed the no. 23 Minnesota and topped the Golden Gophers 5-2. 
In their latest test the Irish welcomed the Miami II urricanes to the Eck Tennis Pavilion on Sunday. The Irish ran their season record to 3-0, as they blanked the 'Canes. 
"I thought we played an ex­ceptional match," commented head eoaeh Bob Bayliss. "Two ynars ago we lost to Miami and last year, after a close match, we wt~re rained out." 
But on Sunday, the Irish dom­inated. In fact, the Hurricanes eould not manage to win a set. 
"I was really impressed with Mike (Sprouse)," raved Bayliss. "From Sunday to Sunday, he has beaten three very good players." 
Sprouse's latest victim was Miami's top player, nationally ranked Gil Kovalski whom he beat 6-4, 7-6. 
"I feel like the big difference from last year to this is my con­fidence," noted Sprouse. "I have just felt more confident in pressure situations. Some of that comes from increased re­sponsibility in being a senior and the captain." 
Also continuing to play well is sophomore Jakup Pietrowski. On Sunday Pietrowski defeated a very talented· player in Miami's Arturo Zizold. 
"Jakup beat another outstanding player," praised Bayliss. "Zizold plays with a lot of power and flare, that's two wins for him in a row over great players." 
Last year Pietrowski played at the fifth position, but he has made the jump to the second singles position successfully. 
"I think my game has stepped up from last year," explains Jakup. "I have gotten a lot more solid and I am playing with a lot of confidence. I think that on any given day I can beat anybody." 
Hyan Simme, who is still re­covering from foot surgery, did not play a singles match. That bumped freshman J.J. Patterson and senior Jason Pun to the no. 3 and no. 6 singles spots, while Brian Patterson re­mained at no. four singles. They each dominated their matches 6-3, 6-4; 6-2, 6-2; and 6-3, 6-1; respectively. 
That left a void at the no. 6 singles position, which was filled just ten minutes before the match by senior Andy Chmura. In his first taste of varsity action, Chmura won big, taking just 14 games to win 6­2, 6-0. 
"Andy deserves a lot of cred­it," praised Bayliss. "He didn't even know that he was going to play. 
"It is good to know that guys like Andy and Brian Harris (who played no. three doubles Sunday) are ready to step in when we need it. That bodes well for our depth in case we get an injury later on during the season." 
"It felt really great to play," Chmura said of his first varsity win. " It was nice to have a lit­tle reward for working hard the past three years. It was a lot of fun." 
In the doubles matches the Irish showed their depth. Sprouse and Pun defeated the 
• AUSTRALIAN OPEN 
Seles receives death threat 
Associated Press 
MELBOUHNE 
Australian Open tennis offi­cials received an anonymous phone call threatening the life of Monica Seles during the sec­ond week of the champi­onships, a Melbourne newspa­pnr reported Tuesday. 
Seles was not told of the 
threat, the Herald Sun news­paper reported. 
The death threat, made by telephone to the Tennis Australia offices, was kept .from Seles so she could concentrate on her tennis, but security around her was boosted, the newspaper said. 
Seles was stabbed in the back by a spectator during a tour-
HURRY! 
nament in Hamburg, Germany, in 1993 and spent over two years out of the sport. 
At the post-match press con­ference following her victory on Saturday over Anke Huber, Seles burst into tears when she was asked by a German reporter whether she would be prepared to play again in Germany. 
TODAY IS THE LAST DAY TO SIGN UP FOR THE 
LEADERSHIP INSTITUTE 

an opportunity for outstanding freshmen and sophomores to attend a series of leadership development seminars Tuesday nights from 
7:00 pm to 8:30 pm in the Notre Dame Room 

Applications must be returned to the Student Activities Office by january 30. For an application and/or more information, contact the Student Activities Office at 631-7308, 315 LaFortune Student Center 
page 13 

two best players on Miami's squad, 8-5, to push their record a perfect 3-0. 
"Our doubles is very much improved from last year, the Sprouse and Pun team is a big improvement," noted Bayliss. 
Also on the doubles side, Simme and O'Brien won a gru­eling 17 game match 9-8. 
At no. 3 doubles, Pietrowski and Brian Harris also improved to 3-0 with an 8-1 triumph. 
Irish 
continued from page 16 
4. The Irish continued their dominance with no. 2 singles, Lord, defeating Stacy Schapiro. 6-3, 6-2. 
Hall shutout her opponent at no. 3 singles, 6-0, 6-0. Hall has been a vital member of the team coming up with key victo­ries in some of the Irish's matches. "Hall has been play­ing really well. When she hits the ball big, like she did against Illinois, she just overpowers her opponents," stated Louderback. 
Velasco, the other outstand­ing freshmen, dismissed no. 4 singles player, Natalie Adsuar in two quick sets, 6-2, 6-0. Velasco is unbeaten this sea­son. "I am trying not to focus on my win streak," Velasco remarked, "I am more focused on the whole team winning. A team victory is what really counts." 
-
The Notre Dame's men's ten­nis team is off to a fast start. But, captain Mike Sprouse men­tioned, "It is pretty early to tell how good we can be. You can tell the confidence difference between last year and this. Already, we have won some matches that we would have lost last season." 
The next test for the Irish will be this Friday at 4:00 p.m. against Boise State. 
Senior Sherri Vitale, no. 5 singles, also was victorious in her first match back for the Irish. She beat Ronny Mehlman, 6-2, 6-1. "It was good for her to get her first match in," remarked Louderback, "She hasn't played since early November. She was a bit nervous in her first few games, but then calmed down. It was good to have her back." 
At no. 6 singles, Gowen defeated Jaclyn Bart 6-2, 6-1. 
"Overall, we did extremely well," stated Louderback, "We are now looking ahead and fo­cusing on our match this week against Northwestern." The team will face the Wildcats this Thursday at home. 
"These matches against Northwestern have been tight in the past, but if we play as well as we did against Illinois, then we should definitely defeat the Wildcats," stated Hall. If the Irish do defeat the Wildcats it will be a giant step toward their goal of reaching the NCAA tournament. 
B R U N 0 'S 
P I Z ·Z A N 0 R T H US 31 North 273-3890 
Hours: 
Delivery 
'Till 1 AM Sun­273-3890 
Thurs Lunch and 'Till2 AM Fri and Sat 
Regular Hours Lunch 11-2 
EARLy WEEK SPECIAL 
2 -14 INCH PIZZAS-$10.501NCLUDESTAX 
THE SOUTH STORE FOR WEEKEND RESERVATION 288-3320 
273-3890 
IISTILL THE BEST" 
-l 
I I 
..._ 
<r 
....---------------~---------~­
page 14 The Observer • SPORTS Monday, January 29, 1996 
• HOCKEY 
leers look to continue streak against Bowling Green 
By MIKE DAY Sports Writer 
No rest for the weary. 
After dominating Army two consecutive nights for their first weekend sweep of the season, the Notre Dame hockey team w.ould love to have a little time to enjoy the fruits of their labor. 
Instead, the Irish, coming off just two days of rest after a rig­orous weekend, are 'rewarded' with a tough conference game against perennial power Bowling Green (16-10-1) tonight at the Joyce Center. 
"It was good to get a couple of wiris under our belt before starting the stretch run of the 
~' schedule," said junior left wing Tim Harberts. "We will have to play even better to beat a team like Bowling Green." Led by senior center Mike Hall (18 goals and 11 assists) and junior right wing Mike Johnson (11 and 18), the Falcon offense enters tonight's match-up ranked fifth in the CCHA in scoring with 3.96 goals per game. 

Both sophomore Matt Eisler and senior Wade Salzman played well at goaltender against the Cadets, and one will have to step l!P once again for the Irish to pull off the upset over the Falcons. 
"We look to Matt and Wade an awful lot for us to be suc­cessful," said Irish head coach Dave Poulin. "Any time one of them is on and can keep us in the game, we have a very good chance of winning." 
After being torched for 11 goals a week ago against Michigan, the Irish defense, led by Brian McCarthy, Ben Nelsen, Benoit Cotnoir, and Garry Gruber, took out their frustra­tion on the Cadet offense. The unit clearly outplayed the much heralded Army unit, limiting the nation's No. 8 offense to just five goals in two nights. 
"I thought they responded really well after the game against Michigan," said Poulin. "Army played extremely well and made few mistakes. You have to be at your best to beat a team like them." 
Irish senior center Jamie Ling will once again be chasing his­tory tonight against the Falcons. After notching his 50th career goal Saturday evening against Army, the team's leader in goals and assists needs just one point to reach 150 for his career. 
"He is a great player who de­serves the success he is get­ting," said team captain Brett Bruininks. "He is the type of player that can make the guys around him better players." 
Joining Ling on the front line will be right wing Brian Urick and left wing Steve Noble. The pair has benefited the most from Ling's stellar play at cen­ter, combining for six points in the sweep of Army. 
"He (Ling) has developed his game a great deal just since the beginning of the season," said Poulin. "Just the attention he attracts and his unselfish style has benefited Steve Noble and Brian Urick a great deal." 
It's just a matter of time before Ling makes his way into the Notre Dame record book. The Irish just hope they can add a victory along with it. 

Fencing 
continued from page 16 
Saturday, but the squad's record winning streak was extended. Senior captain Claudette de Bruin had 10 wins, and teammate Amy Sromek added 13 to led the team with unblemished records. 
The epee squad did have problems with Northwestern on Saturday. Both teams won eight matches, but Notre Dame notched five more touches to win the tie-breaker. 
The men's epee team also had problems with the Wildcats, the only team that beat the Irish. 
Brice Dille lead Notre Dame 
Hickey 
continued from page 16 
into foul trouble. 
Listening back in hif; dorm room, the problems caused by his absence were not lost on Hickey. 
"That was extremely hard, probably the worst point so 
Ski 
Cannonsburg 
for 
$2 

with a 10-4 record. Brian Stone's nine wins contributed to the improving squads' record. 
"The men's epee team is im­proving," said Auriol. "Brice Dille is showing signs of im­provement as the number two epeeist. Unfortunately, Lawrence University, with the National Champion epeeist, did­n't show up. It would have been a good test." 
The only undefeated men's team, the sabre squad, extend­ed its winning ways. Senior captain Bill Lester went unde­feated with 11 wins. Jeff Wartgow tallied ten victories and freshman Luke LaValle had nine wins. 
"The real test is this weekend in Boson," said Auriol. "We will fence defending national cham­
far," he admitted. 
Hickey is confident, though, that he will eventually conquer his fear, which also afflicts other sports personalities such as television analyst John Madden and Indiana Pacers coach Larry Brown. 
''I'm sure I'll stay here and work through this thing," he said. "That's not even a ques­tion in my mind." 
... February 3 
$25 includes lift ticket, round trip bus fare and ski equipment. Bus leaves from Mishawaka Outpost Sports at 2 pm. 
3602 N. Grape Road 428 Baldwin Street Mishawaka, IN Elkhart,IN (219)259-1000 (219)262-4419 
pion Penn State, Penn and MIT. We will be able to measure our team against the tougher com­petition. 
"We are right where we want to be so far in the Midwest Conference, being undefeated. In order to compete with the stronger teams everyone has to make adjustments." 
Walsh had many of the same feelings as her coach about the upcoming matches. "Our tough competition is this weekend," she said. "We fence Penn State, who has a tough foilist. If we pull together we can do it. It will be tough in Boston." 
The Observer/David Murphy 
The Notre Dame fencing squads dominated their weekend foes. 
Tuesday, January 30, 1996 
The Observer • TODAY page 15 
FOUR FOOD GROUPS OF THE APOCALYPSE 
DAVE KELLETT YOUR HOROSCOPE JEANE DIXON 
Gu~s 1\,-T11~ ~""' A'-£ "P~tE. n'1 Qp. ~t\\Mti•~O~o 'S(>o~<T~ 
HAPPY IIIRTHDA Y! IN THE 
tvr<r<"''.TI\E'\fP.~'-1\tW~"\s Err11~ \-IE~-<> 'Sro~.u 
NEXT YEAR OF YOUR LIFE: 
s.,. .....,,.~., fir< Ill£ "'"'EL~ES v,..~u·"~'-1.. T~ rt"AA•R ... 

DILBERT 
I HIRED TI-\E. "DOC,C>EP.T CONSULTING COMPANY'' TO LEAD THE Pf\OJ'ECT BECAUSE. NONE OF YOU 
IS BRIGHT ENOUGH. 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 30 Like some tabloid 
1 Year before jr. 
headlines 5 Dhaka dress 
31 To the point, as 9 Bacteria a remark 
destroyer 32 Evening hour 14 Command to 35 Rank between Dobbin viscount and 15 Desertlike marquis16 First duke of 36 Fishing basket Normandy 37 Infested, in a17 Women's rights wayadvocate 38 Reagan milit. 
Lucretia program18 Mathematician 
39Bel­
Descartes (cheese)
19 Church instrument 40 Relating to pitch 
20 Military bigwigs 41 "Jules and Jim" situation
23 Chemical relative 43 Relinquish, as a 
25 "A Lesson From 
right 45 Skiing event 26 Brig, for one 46 Post-Derby site 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
Consistent effort is the key to career advancement Do not slack off just because things seem to be going well. A golden employment oppor­tunity arises in April. Good health depends on your sticking to a healthy diet and exercise regimen. Look forward to traveling in the summer months. As autumn approaches, romance will take on a new luster. A search for spiritual enlightenment will lead to new peace of mind. Have faith' 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: actress Vanessa Red­grave, golfer Curtis Strange, singer Jody Watley, four-time U.S. Presi­dent Franklin D. Roosevelt. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): A promotion, new duties and addition­al income are likely if you finish work assignments on time. Friends prove their loyalty again and again! Return a financial favor at the earli­est opportunity. 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): A relationship may be coming to an end. Child-related problems will be easier to solve with the help of expens. Be firm if someone tries to heap extra work on you without remuneration. 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): You can make tremendous strides now if you stay calm and collected. Complications related to business romance will test your maturity. Rise to the occasion' 
CANCER (June 21-July 22):
SCOTT ADAMS 
Conflicting obligations could 
------------------------~G~-----------------------­
require a juggling act. Be careful not to drop the ball. Key people "ill be
8 AND '<OU ALL HAVE ~ rSHI>.LL WE. GO AROUND "\ 
demanding. Your ESP is right on 
target. Determine if a flirtation could be the real thing. 
5".0 ATTITUDES FOR _~u: THE. TABLE AND 
NO APPARENT REASON; INTP.ODOCE OURSELVES? 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Seek an
11
TI-\AT'5 NO WAY TO e>E .. 
expert's advice before implementing 
A LEADER. 
50 Writer of boys' tales 51 Mexican girl 52 Yen 55 Barnyard sound 56 Formerly 
57 London restaurant district 
58 Beforehand 
59 Prosperity 
60 Freshly 
DOWN 
1 Personal ad abbr. 2 Exclamation of surprise 3 Mishmash 4 Nasty letters 5 French existentialist 6 Neighborhood 7 Wagnerian cycle a Prefix with gram or logical 9 Bugbear 
iififf~~~~~-~10 "Friday the 13th" 
genre ~~~~ ..:...~.•~=+;.+::=-! 11 Pond cover 
~~"+"'+'---...:..+~~;..t 12 Word with drinking or looking 
13 Ages and ages 21 Dork 1-=..j~~"'+'..:..f.'.'-+--+"--~..:...f:::..J.:~:,.+:;..t 22 Old movie star Conrad ~.:,:+"-!-'"-! 23 Enchanted places, perhaps 
a daring new financial plan. Refuse
~ I DON'T 
to allow a workaholic temperament
: GET CHl.lMM.'< 

IL. 
WITH TH£ 
• OF INTEREST
LOCALS. 
• 
An Internet Job Search Skills workshop will take place at 7 p.m. tonight Room L003 (Computer Cluster}. in the College of Business Administration. This hands-on lab will provide assistance in locating, accessing, and using employment-related and eareer· related information on the Internet. It will be Pre­sented by Paula cook, assistant Director, Career and Placement Services. 

• 
Feminists for Life meeting is canceled. The meet· ing is rescheduled for Feb. 6 at 7:30 p.m. in the Center for Social Concerns. 

• 
Information for the post-graduate service op· portunity in Capuchin Franciscan Youth & Family Ministries will take place Jan. 30 and 31 at the Center for Social Concerns. Fr. Tony will be available to dis~ cuss volunteer work as youth ministers. retreat lead­ers; leadership trainers, peer ministers, and organize outreach. 

• 
Mary Ann Mahony of the History Department and Kellogg Institute of University of Notre Dame will pre­sent the lecture, "Afro· Brazilians, a Land Reform Law, and Social Mobility in southern Bahia. Brazil, 1880-1920" today at 12:30 p.m. in C-103 Hesburgh Center for International Studies 

• 
Live on campus this July for academic credit, pay, and free room and board by becoming a youth leader for the national Youth Sports Program. Appli· cations are due Feb. 1 to Sue Cunningham (631-7867) in the Center for Social Concerns. 

• 
Wednesday Lunchfast sign-ups will take place at lunch or dinner today. The money from your meals goes to worthy third-world grassroots organizations. 


24 Military unit 
27 Street show 
28 Words before a clarification 29 "The Female Eunuch" author 32 One heart in hand 33 Author Calvi no 34 Woody tissue 36 Spelunker 37 Big draw at the 
Louvre 
to snuff out your chances for 
romance. 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): 
Serenity and affection make the 
family circle a happy place to be. 
Shoulder your share of domestic 
responsibilities with good grace. 
Keep a dental or medical appoint­
ment Romance looks rosy. 
LIIIRA (Sept 23-0ct 22): The emphasis today is on showing good judgment Careless talk could cause a financial loss. Be more discreet about the status of your finances. In romance, follow your intuition. 
SCORI'IO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Teamwork helps create stability. Correct any misunderstandings regarding partnership funds or a new financial strategy. Rumors should be ignored if they cannot be verified. 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dcc. 21 ): Avoid rushing when launching or wrapping up projects. Your pan­ncr's cooperation is vital. Resist bragging about your efficiency. Tasks you handle alone should go well later today. Pay a bill without any further delay. 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Operating solo keeps you focused on what really counts. On the other hand, an occasional brain­stomling session will help you keep a project moving along. A newcom­er plays a big role in your plans. 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): A long-cherished dream comes true thanks to hard work. Others are will­ing to pay big bucks for your skills or services. A night out proves liber­ating. You find the strengtr to hreak out of a rut 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): A quiet refuge provide~ you with the ideal environment for intense con­centration. A more relaxed lifestyle could be one of your goals. Research new ways to augment your family's income. Focus on long­term goals. 
• Tonight In the Cinema at the Snite, the movie
39 Destitution 47 Cable TV clears 
"War Canoes/Nanoak" will be playing at 7 p.m .. with
40 Soft mineral it up 
"Rashomon" at shown at 9 p.m. The cost for each
41 Of direct 48 Art film theater 
movie is $2.
descent 490newhom 42 Tel Aviv's land Pizarro 43 Author Cather 
encountered 
•MENU
44 Fury 53 --Guevara 46 "Jabberwocky" 54 "By what 
Notre Dame 
word means?" 
Call631-0111 for menu information 
Saint Mary's
Get answers to any three clues 
Veggie Kabobs
by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420­
Teriyaki Beef Chow Mein
5656 (75¢ each minute). 
Brown Rice 
~(lJ 
ov 
f...~ 
...
Notre Dame Golf Shop 
I Ctl\t· Chili's '?0c.P (lJ 
18
-Yo 
ElfEvr 
c II'S
FlOWERAMA ~,f~t-.s' Notre Dame Varsitfj Shop 'roq1R. t 
Promotions 
SPORTS 
page 16 Tuesday, January 30, 1996 

Irish capture regional win over Illini 
Winning streak extended to four; Wildcats up next 
By KATHLEEN LOPEZ Spons Writer 
The women's tennis team is taking large strides toward achieving their goals for this season. They managed to overpower regional opponent Illinois last Sunday, 7-0. The 15th ranked Irish remain undefeated thus far. The team is not dwelling on their victory, instead they are focusing on their upcoming match against the Northwestern Wildcats. 
"Overall, the whole team played really tough," stated freshman Marisa Velasco, "It is always hard to play at Illinois. We all wanted this victory really bad." 
"We played overall really well against Illinois," stated head coach, Jay Louderback, "We started out real­ly slow in the beginning with doubles, but then the six singles players played dominated." 
The Irish suffered one loss in their match play, as the top doubles team of seniors Wendy Crabtree and Holyn Lord were defeated by Illinois' high­ranked doubles team. "They just got on them early, and the two of them could not rally back," Louderback re­marked. 
But this was the only loss for the Irish in the entire match. 
The no. 2 doubles team consisting of junior Erin Gowen and freshman Jennifer Hall dismissed their oppo­nents, 8-4. 
Senior Sherri Vitale and Velasco de­feated the no. 3 doubles team for the Illini, 8-5. "We played really well together," stated Velasco, "Sherri played well. She really came up with some great shots." 
The Irish dominated in singles play, not giving up a single set to Illinois. Crabtree, the no. 1 singles player, dis­missed Illinois' Susanne Land, 6-2, 6­
see IRISH I page 13 


• MEN'S BASKETBAll 
Getting off the ground 
Phil Hickey struggles to adjust to game, travel 

Wellsboro, Il'A is optimistic that he will be able to overcome his fear of air travel that kept him from flying with the team to Miami last Tuesday. 
"''m trying to deal with this on a day-to-day basis," Hickey said. "I think that I've been making some progress." 
The contest against Miami was the first that Hickey missed all year, although for games at Boston College and Pittsburgh, he drove with fami­ly members rather than taking the team plane. 
A similar procedure will be repeated for Wednesday night's game against St. John's in New York, as Hickey is not yet comfortable enough to fly. 
"To my knowledge right now, Phil is being driven to New York and will be driving back after the game," said Irish coach John MacLeod. "Phil will fly when he's ready, and right now (driving) is the only way we can get him there." 
Hickey's phobia is a relative­ly new development, stemming primarily from a turbulent flight back to South Bend after the Xavier game in Cincinnati on December 23. 
It was then that he realized that he had to confront his fear. 
"I realized that this is some­thing I need to confront because it's going to be a big part of the next three or four years," said Hickey. "A lot of the fear comes from a lack of understanding." 
While he copes with his fear, however, Hickey has received the unconditional support of those around him. 
"Everyone on the team has been very supportive," he said. "Coach has also been great, and he told me to take all the time I need, which was very important." 
There is no question, though, that this unexpected develop­ment has been frustrating to all involved, a fact especially apparent during the Miami game. MacLeod was forced to improvise during key stretches of the game when Notre Dame's other big people got 
see HICKEY I page 14 
By TIM SEYMOUR Associate Sports Editor 
Making adjustments to new situations is not an unfamiliar undertaking for freshman ath­letes, who must adapt to the rigors of college life along with new levels of competition. 
Center Phil Hickey just has one more adjustment to make. The 6-11, 265-pounder from 
The Observer/Mike Ruma 
In addition to the adjustment of playing collegiate basketball, Hickey must also contend with his fear of flying. 
• fENCING 
Irish skewer visitors 
By WILLY BAUER Sports Writer Notre Dame's fencing team got a little touchy on Saturday. 
As expected, the team faced little ·competi· tion last Saturday in its h o m e me e t. sweeping the event with 6-0 records for each team. 
The men's foil team was again led by senior captain Jeremy Siek. He ended the day with a 9-0 record. 
More importantly, Siek secured Notre Dame's vic· tory over Ohio State. With the squads tied at four wins apiece, Siek beat his oppo­nent to the required five touches and secured the foil team's undefeated mark. 

"The men's foil had a 
tough match against Ohio 
State," said coach Yves 
Auriol. "Siek showed his 
leadership of the team when 
he won the last match. 
They fenced better against 
Northwestern." 
The Irish beat the 
Wildcats 8-1. 
Auriol's son Stephane also 
was undefeated for the 
weekend with nine wins. 
Senior Paul Capobianco had 
seven viCtories and sopho­
more John Tejada had eight 
to aid in the team's domi­
nance. 
Freshman Sara Walsh led 
the women's foil team with 
another undefeated perfor­
mance. 
Walsh was a spotless 12-0 
as the team cruised in its 
matches, including a 16·0 
victory over Tri State 
University. 
The foil team got help 
from Rose Saari's 16 wins 
and junior Amee Appel with 
15 victories. 
Half of the teams they 
faced on Saturday failed to 
get a victory against Notre 
Dame 
"The meet went well," 
said Walsh. "We beat all the 
teams easily." 
The women's epee team 
had a little tougher time 
against its competition on 
see FENCING I page 14 
• Poulin, Irish face big conference test Men's Tennis 
see page 14 vs. Boise, February 2, 4 p.m. 
Men's Basketball 
SPORTS 
at Saint John's, January 31, 8 p.m. Women's Tennis 
• Men's tennis defeats Miami 
vs. Nonhwestern, February I, 3:30p.m. see page 13 
Women's Basketball ... at a 
at Rutgers, February 3, 2 p.m. 
• Johnson set to return 
see page 10
GLANCE 

