
Thursday, August 29, 1996 • Vol. XXX No.4 THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Indiana visit precedes Clinton nomination 
Five-state tour ends in Michigan City 
By BRAD PRENDERGAST News Editor 
MICHIGAN CITY 

Touting the accomplishments of his adminis­tration and lending his support to state Democratic eandidates. President Clinton con­cluded his whistle-stop train tour of the Midwest on Wednesday with a visit to Michigan City. 
After speaking before a erowd of about 40,000 at the city's Washington Park, Clinton flew aboard the presidential helicopter from Michigan City Municipal Airport to the campus of the University of Illinois-Chicago, then was driven to a hotel suite where he watched the teleeast of the Democratic National Convention at Chicago's United Center. 
The delegates to the convention completed the formal business of this week-long parade of speeehes and rallies by nominating Clinton for a second term. He will accept the nomination tonight. 
Clinton's visit to Michigan City carne one day afwr the convention's keynote address was given by Indiana Gov. Evan Bayh, who joined Clinton at the podium in Washington Park Wednesday. 
Bayh's keynote address Tuesday was a point­by-point defense against GOP attacks on Clinton, allowing the president to focus Wednesday on 
see CLINTON I page 4 
P
resident Clinton -flanked by U.S. Rep. Tim Roemer, Michigan City Mayor S,heila Bergerson Brillson, Gov. Evan Bayh, his wife, and Lt. Gov. Frank O'Bannon ­speaks to the 40,000 who streamed into Washington Park in Michigan City on Wednesday. 

Presidential visit wins recognition for my hometown 
MICHIGAN CITY 

Growing up in a small town can be a humbling experience, expecially at a school where everyone seems to come from a metropolis teeming with never ending nightlife. 
Coming from a town where bowling may be the main attraction of a weekend night and dri­ving up and down the main street after dark is considered a worth­while activity to teenagers, I was sur------­prised when I heard Liz Foran that President Clinton Ediror-in-Chief would be making his-----­last stop in Michigan City. 


Not that the city would not welcome him. The northern region of Indiana is one of the few strongholds of the Democrats in a largely Republican state. Over 40,000 people attended Clinton's last stop yesterday before he headed toward Chicago and his assured nomina­
see FORAN I page 6 
Score! 

The Observer/Brandon Candura 

Jim Mahood, Father Steve Newton, Mike Gaffud, abd Mike Signorelli are locked in heated combat on Sarin's new foosball table. 
• MUlTICULTURAL BEAT 



Hispanic student clubs merge, form 'La Alianza' 
By KELLY BROOKS 
News Writer 
One of the new voices to emerge on campus this fall will come via a merger of three older, more experienced voic­es. Last April the Hispanic American Organization, the League of United Latin American Citizens, and the National Hispanic Institute organized to form one large club called La Alianza. 
The time demands from belonging to multiple clubs spurred some members to find a solution to the dilemma. The compromise that emerged is known as La Alianza, which translates into "the alliance." 
"The idea was brought up at a meeting of HAO. People weren't able to go to each indi­vidual meeting. This [the merger] will make us a stronger force on campus and enable us to provide more cul­turally, socially, and political­ly," explained Club Secretary Marisa Limon. 
Originally each club chose to focus on a specific area in pro­gramming their events. HAO 
see LA ALIANZA I page 4 


ND grad student attends Republican convention 
By JUSTYN HARKIN 
News Writer 
An event that happens but oneo every four years occurred this summer. 
It draws eight times more reporters and media personnel than participants, and features thousands of street vendors selling everything from t-shirts to buttons to baseball caps. The level of emotion is comparable to that of the Notre Dame stu­dent section at the 1995 USC game. 
The spectacle referred to is not thll Atlanta Olympics. It is the 1996 Republican National Convention in San Diego, California. Notre Dame student Matthew Szabo had the oppor­tunity to be at the Convention. 
Szabo, a senior government major with a concentration in the Jlesburgh Program for Public Service, was one of 100 interns sponsored by the Washington Center for Internships and Academic Seminars to go to San Diego for a two week series of lectures, panel discussions, and field­work. Speakers for the interns included Sam Donaldson, David Brinkley, Former White House Chief of Staff Don Rucksfield, among others. 
see SZABO I page 6 


Expansion shifts parking plan 
By HEATHER COCKS 
Associate News Editor 
New parking areas and traffic regulations will be implement­ed for all home football games, Notre Dame Security/Police announced in a press release. 
Stadium expansion has elimi­nated many of the reserved parking spaces; to compensate, the remaining lots have been renamed and a new system designed. The majority of pub­lic parking will be on White Field, the lot north of campus at Douglas and Juniper roads. Some additional spaces will be available in Blue Field, south of Edison Road. 
see PARKING I page 6 


BlueField
··~ ...
. . . AoAo. ,....__ 
Slue Field ,· ~ 

Thursday, August 29, 1996
page 2 The Observer • INSIDE 
• INSIDE COlUMN • WORlD AT A GLANCE 
The road not taken 
Coming to college gives us many options. There are so many decisions to make on our own for the first time. It's both scary and Lori Allen exciting. Mom and Saint Mary's Dad are no longer News Editor available at a moments notice to answer those burning questions. Friends slowly begin to take their place as our wisdom seekers. Many are right and many are wrong, only we know for sure who to really rely on. Decisions will arise daily that will try our patience and test our endurance. Some are easy while others are quite difficult. From where to hang that new poster, to how to tell a friend that she needs to go for help, decisons will encompass your life. 
These decisions develop our character. but sometimes the ones that we don't make are the ones that define who we really are. Think back to all of those moments when you could've done or said something, but didn't. Life is filled with them. Decisions we decided against making for one reason or another. Instead of taking a risk, it was easier to simply move on. Thinking back though, how does it feel? 
•It's 
that one guy, THE guy, who you never did get the courage to tell your true feelings to. That same guy who you see now and wonder what could've been. 

•It's 
that one guy. THE guy, who you did get the courage to talk to... and really shouldnt've. 

•It's 
that amazing road trip that you just never got around to taking. Those friends at other schools still waiting for you to visit. 

•It's 
that one roommate who was easier to ignore than to try and work things out with. 

•It's 
that class you never took because you were afraid of failing before you even gave it a try. 

•It's 
that class that you did take. 

•It's 
that party you missed because ... 



•It's 
that party that you didn't miss and wish you had... 

•It's 
the all-nighter you never pulled to study for that big test that you failed. 

•It's 
that major that you really should have chosen. 

•It's 
all of those laps around the lake that you keep promising yourself. 

•It's 
all of the volunteer work that you keep saying you are going to do. 

•It's 
that sport that you never tried out for. 

•It's 
all of the wasted time you spent wor­rying instead of laughing. 

•It's 
all of the friends you keep promising you'll hang out with. 


•It's even that untried ID... 
In the course of all of this decision mking you come to terms with your identity, and develop a confidence in yourself that you never knew existed before. We are all embarked on the journey that has been dubbed 'the best years of our lives.' It is up to us individually to take advantage of the opportunities that are seldom labeled that lay before us. Don't let them pass by. Life is too short for regrets. Make it a goal this semester to take the opportunity and to take the risk. Even if it means baring your naked soul to the harsh South Bend wind, so be it. Ask him out. Use that ID. Very few people graduate and wish that they had spent more time studying. Tke some advice from NIKE...JUST DO IT. 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
• TODAY'S STAFF 
News Production 
Heather Cocks Maureen Hurley Matthew Loughran Rosanna Ventrone Spotts Lab Tech 
Todd Fitzpatrick Katie Kroener Joe Cavato Graphics 
Tom Roland 

Crews work to lift chunk of the Titanic 
ST. JOHN'S, Newfoundland l;!:ffort<Jta-• 13•1onportton<>t A chunk of the Titanic sat stub-~.alslng the Titanic !'tf..,.~¥~'!'!/:l.;:U:;!"J;%on: bornly in its underwater grave of 
tnatd• the N•utHe
84 years Wednesday despite E""'""""""" 
attempts to lift it from the bot-=::.=.... tom of the North Atlantic using =:~'e. huge bags of lighter-than-water =~.'~!>-'•
lit.anlc'shliii.Tna 
diesel fuel. :::1".':'/.':J':n':~' The salvagers turned to a tiny ">'•remo•••~<~n•" submarine -with former astro-'· ..""'P"'"'"' .............. '"""'' 
t: ~~~~t, t>Mtertea ~:~J';'h=~ "'")(
naut Edwin "Buzz" Aldrin tll!l'.l'~~.'i:f· ,'k'::.ll'::::;,>.~"'......... 
aboard-to cut the ballast hold­ing down some of the flotation ~:;,:::;;.~'r..~:~:::."l'~~~~2:~~.::•• bags. The remote-control equip­
~~~!s~\a~e ~~~l:s~Pfa~teedd f~~ :~?-~'·:..£.;;~;~:::· 
some reason. .··. = 
~~~; f~~:!~~~I:!~~ ~:~~:1 ~;,~=--­
.$!11tlt'l~nll:

and the cables are twisting ,. around," said Alexandra Foley of RMS Titanic Inc .. which owns
salvage rights to the wreck. c.:s=o":::'~:::'.=o•::acave="'~c=""::::""="'~o="":::"":___________..=P:::tw::::m::.::.J::..::·""':::•:::••:::J'"' organizers were u~ing 

5 Day South Bend Forcast Accu Weather'" forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 
Thursd~y  ~  
Friday  ~  
Saturday  ·~  
Sunda'l  - 
Mongay  

\:}'.J"'.r,---, ....,;""' 

V'-AaociiJtedPress  
Atlanta  85  67  
Baltimore  84  62  
Boston  76  61  
Chicago  77  61  
Columbus  82  58  

southeast  of  
Newfoundland  where  
the  Titanic  went  
down.  

The expedition has been denounced by some historians as tan­tamount to grave-rob­bing. They say the wreck should be left intact as a memorial. 
More than 1,500 of 2,200 people aboard were killed after the 
~cc:::r!inoe~ ~~~i~k t: 
1912, on its maiden voy­



~~~fo}C::~·y:~t ti: 
trying to preserve a piece of history. To raise the piece the 

The salvage operation was being watched on video monitors by 1,700 passengers aboard two cruise ships floating over the spot miles 
Kemp calls for reconciliation 
Campaigning along streets not used to seeing GOP candidates. Jack Kemp plunged into an impoverished inner city area today to trumpet a Republican "new civil rights record for America." The GOP vice presi­dential nominee returned to South Central Los Angeles. scene of 1992 rioting after the Rodney King verdicts. 

to preach a message of racial recon­ciliation. "I cannot imagine a more important goal," Kemp said. Kemp and GOP presidential nominee Bob Dole have vowed to bring their campaign to traditionally Democratic neighborhoods. "There's only one race, that's the human race. We're all brothers and sisters," Kemp said. Kemp, a longtime advocate for blacks and other minorities, had been a strong supporter of affirma­tive action programs until he joined the GOP ticket earlier this month. Then he modified his views to mesh with those of Dole, a critic of such government programs to give minorities preferences in employment, education and housing. 

Gene therapy aids in treatment 
NEW YORK 
Scientists planted a human gene in mice and then con­trolled how hard it worked through a sort of chemical dimmer switch -an advance that might one day allow the use of gene therapy to treat diseases like anemia and even diabetes. It's the first time that scientists have been able to adjust the activity of a gene given to an adult ani­mal. one expert said. The dimmer-switch approach may someday mean pills instead of shots for people who take regular doses of pr~teins for such diseases as dwarfism, muscle wasting from AIDS, cancer, multiple sclerosis, anemia and, after much more research, diabetes. Such proteins can't be taken as pills because they are destroyed by the digestive tract. The new strategy would get around that by having the person's body make the protein using an implanted gene that responds to a drug taken by mouth. The approach might greatly expand the range of diseases treated through gene therapy, accord­ing to health officials. 
flotation bags filled with diesel, which can withstand the pressure 2.5 miles down. 

Grozny residents vow to stay 
GROZNY, Russia 

Block upon block of blackened buildings crumble, per­vaded by death. The smell of burnt flesh wafts out of a charred Russian tank destroyed as it plowed through the central market. Disheveled war orphans roam the rub­ble-strewn streets, pillaging for food as rebel fighters with machine guns enforce a fragile peace. And yet for thousands of residents who have made their way back to Chechnya's capital after fleeing the latest bombard­ments, no amount of tragedy or devastation can keep them away for long. Grozny is and always will be home. Many of the civilians returned this week to the eerie still­ness of a truce only to discover new heartache. One of them was newlywed Maleika Israilova. who found the entire front facade of her apartment building ripped open from a rocket attack. For four days, the 28-year-old woman shoveled frantically through the ankle-deep ruins of her eighth-floor apartment. searching for her life's savings ~-about $1,000 worth of rubles tucked in a bag and hidden on a balcony that no longer existed.She found the bag, but it was empty. She collapsed in tears. "This is not war," her brother Lechi said. "It's the extermina­tion of a people." 

Festival erupts in Spain 
BUNOL, Spain 

It's probably the world's biggest food fight. In les.s than an hour Wednesday, some 20,000 people turned 132 tons of tomatoes into slop, coating the main plaza of Bunol with the blood-red remains of nearly a million vegeta­bles. The annual Tomatina. or Tomato Festival, began on Aug. 28, 1932, and has been growing ever since. It now draws people from across Spain, and has lately begun to attract foreigners as well. On Wednesday, the ritual began at 11 a.m.. when men on trucks doused the crowd gathered in Bunol's main plaza with water hoses. Townspeople covered their windows and balconies with huge plastic sheets. A fever gripped the crowd -mostly young men -jammed shoulder-to-shoulder in the nar­row plaza. They began ripping off each other's T -shirts, flinging the shreds into the air. "Tomato! Tomato!" they chanted, jumping in unison. Just past noon, the tomatoes came. Five truckloads of them. Sixteen thousand dollars worth of them. 
The AccuWeather®forecast for noon, Wednesday, Aug. 28. 
Unes separate high temperature zones for the day. 

..............-...a....a.... ............... 
COLD WARM STATIONARY 
C 1996 AccuWeather, Inc. 
Pressure 

H L B &'SJ [Til 0!ZJ§-Q~u
HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY 
Dallas  86  71  New Orleans  87  74  
Denver  78  54  New York  80  64  
Los .Angeles  97  66  Philadelphia  81  63  
Miami  89  77  Phoenix  105 84  
Minneapolis  80  59  St. Louis  87 65  

Thu~day, August 29, 1996 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
-----------~·---------­
Do you want fries with that? ND Teachers win excellence awards 

Special to The Observer 
The Notre Dame Law School and the Colleges of Arts and Letters, Science, Engineering and Business Administration have selected the University's outstanding teachers for the 1995-96 academic year. 
• The late Edward Murphy has been honored posthumously with the Distinguished Teaching Award by this year's Notre Dame Law School graduates. 
A member of the faculty from 1927 until his death in 1995, Murphy taught more students than any professor in the 127­year history of the law school. This year's law graduates were the last to study under him. 
Murphy was awarded the 1990 Faculty Award and previ­ously was honored with the Distinguished Teaching Award in 1971 and 1993. 
This year's law school gradu­ates also recognized Patricia O'Hara, vice-president of Student Affairs and professor of law, with the Willian 0. McLean Community Citizenship Award. 

• Paul Helquist, professor of chemistry and biochemistry, has been awarded the 1996 Shilts/Leonard Teaching Award for the College of Science. 
Helquist, an organic chemist specializing in research on antibiotics and other biological­ly active compounds, received his bachelor's degree in chem­istry from the University of Minnesota. and his master's degree and doctorate from Cornell University. He joined the Notre Dame faculty in 1984. 
• Catherine Mowry Lacugna, professor of theology, has been named the recipient of the Sheedy Award for excellence in teaching in the College of Arts and Letters. A member of the Notre Dame faculty since 1981, Lacugna earned her bachelor's degree at Seattle University, and her master's and doctorate at Fordham University. 
• Jay Brockman, assistant professor of computer science and engineering, has been named recipient of the Outstanding Teaching Award in the College of Engineering. He was selected by faculty, stu­dents, and previous recipients. 
A specialist in design of large­scale integrated circuits, he received his bachelor's degree from Brown University and his master's and doctorate from Carnegie Mellon University. 
• John Affieck-Graves, associ­ate professor of finance and business economics, is the win­ner of the Undergraduate Teaching Award in the College of Business. 
Affleck-Graves holds bache­lor's degrees in mathematical statistics, computer science, and accounting. His master's degree is on operations research, and his doctorate in mathematical statistics. He joined the Notre Dame faculty in 1986. 



Student committee to analyze Saint Mary's housing 
By MAUREEN HURLEY 
Associate Nrws Editor 
As most departments are wrapping up planning for this semester, the Department of Hesidence Life and Housing at Saint Mary's College is begin­ning to explore options of policy changfl for the future. 
At the end of the spring 1996 semester, the Housing Office, coordinated by Katherine Rosswurm, distributed surveys to the resident students regard­ing various housing issues, par­ticularly those involving the room selection process. Now, those surveys form the frame­work of a student committee, which will tackle housing issues throughout the fall semester. 
The committee, which will consist of approximately 10 stu­dents, will begin meeting in the coming weeks to discuss issues pertinent to the department, including smoking in the resi­dence halls; housing during breaks; orientation week and commencement week housing; room change policies; and the room selection process. 

ATTENTION ALPP MAJORS 

THERE WILL BE AN IMPORTANT MEETING FOR 
RLL ALPP STUDENTS 
THURSDAY, AUGUST 29 IN 204 O'SHAUGHNESSY HALL ACCORDING TO THE FOLLOWING SCHEDULE: 
SENIORS  4:30-5:00  
JUNIORS  5:00-5:30  
SOPHOMORES  5:30-6:00  

J~*ZMANS\ DOORSOPEN4 PM CLUB FREE FOOD 5·7 PM MON-SAT 525HILL5TREET l.J.J-8SOS THURSDAY'S COLLEGE PARTY AND THEME NIGHT Featuring: NEW SCHOOL VS OLD SCHOOL NIGHT (With a blast from the past and a hlp-hop leap to the present) D)'s both levels playing your favorite funk. r&b, reggae and hip-hop party and dance music from the 70's to 90's.  
LOWER LEVEL-Soul Train Line Contest  UPPER LEYEL­Doors open 4:00 PM. Macarena Dance Contest $200 in total prizes awarded to top 6 winners. Free Food Winners determined by audience response so 
$1.00 cover before I I :00 PM  
$3.50 after II :00 PM  bring your friends to cheer for you.5:00-7:00 PM Mon.-Sat.  
This Thursday, free admission  Ist Place $60.00; 2nd Place $25.00; 3rd Place $1  
before I I :00 PM with this ad  
and your NY, NJ, CA. WI, or MO driver license.  Study booths available Dance Contest starts promptly at 12:45 am (Minimum of 6 contestants per requiredMon.-Sat. 4:00-9:30 PM for contest to be  
Do you go out to party. have fun and a good time? Then you'll come to jazzman's. Or do you go out to save a few pennies, watch TYs or go where the dance floors are no larger than your closet at home? Guess what, you can do both at Jazzman's, South Bend's only multi-level night club. Free birthday, bachelor, bachelorette, graduation, or anniversary parties. You provide the guest-we provide the space and party favors. Off duty uniform security provided both inside and outside with lighted parking lots on Hill St. and Niles St. 21 and over with proper /D's. No lOs No Adminance-State Law.  

Rosswurm, who graduated from Saint Mary's in 1992, moved from working in the admissions office in December to assume the role of housing coordinator. 
"With me being new to this position, this is an excellent opportunity for us to evaluate our policies to best serve the students," Rosswurm said. 
The Housing Office views this as an ideal opportunity to eval­uate past progress, to make changes possibly as early as the spring semester. 
"We're going to ask students selected for the committee to find out how students are feel­ing. and decide whether we need to make changes," said Hosswurm. 
According to the housing office, students from various classes and residence halls who expressed interest in serving on the committee were randomly chosen to join the committee. The final roster of committee members is not yet available. 
"We made sure we selected students who indicated in their surveys that they were happy with their residence life experi­ence, and students who weren't, so we can hear a vari­ety of viewpoints." Rosswurm said. 
"Everyone seems really excit­ed about working together to improve Residence Life and Housing in the future." 

If you see news happening, call The Observer at 1-5323 
Notre Dame • Vanderbilt -rickets Available I·BOD-852-7771 




great scores ••• 

Kaplan helps you focus 
your test prep study where you need i! most. We'll show you !he proven skills and test­taking techniques that help you get a higher score. 

great skills ••• 
Kaplan has the most complete arsenal of test prep tools available. From videos to software to virtual reality practice tests with computerized analysis to great teachers who mr.ll}' care, nobody offers you more ways to practice. 
Classes forming now! Call 1-800-KAP-TEST 
get a higher score 


KAPLAN 
In South Bend Call 272-4135 

page 4 The Observer • NEWS Thursday, August 29, 1996 

Clinton 
continued from page 1 
highlighting his term's 
achievements without mention­
ing either Bob Dole or the 
Republican Party. 
The closest mention Clinton 
made of the GOP was an attack 
on the federal debt run up by 
the combined presidencies of 
Ronald Reagan and George 
Bush. 
"Your budget would have a 
surplus tonight if we didn't have 
to pay interest on the debt that 
was created during those 12 
years," he told the audience, 
most of whom waved small 
American flags and held plac­
ards supporting Clinton and 
Vice President AI Gore. 
Clinton used his visit to point 
out that in the last four years, 
10 million new jobs have been 
created, 4.5 million Americans 
have become new homeowners, 
and 50 million more Americans 
are now breathing cleaner air, 
according to Democratic figures. 
"America is on the move for 
the first time in a decade," 
Clinton said. "We are not only 
on the right track to Chicago, 
we are on the right track to the 
21st century." 
That statement was particu-


Alianza 
continued from page 1 
was concerned with social events. LULAC focused on political life and educational awareness while NHI worked to raise cultural awareness. 
· When the three groups dis­cussed forming one club they were initially concerned with losing funding. La Alianza has been able to retain the funding that the three organizations had received as individuals. 
"We'll still put on the events that we did as individual clubs such as Latin Expressions and Hispanic Heritage Month," continued Limon. "But we're also expanding." 
Already La.Alianza has spon­sored a Freshmen Social geared toward increasing awareness and involvement on campus. La Alianza expects to grow stronger because the Class of 2000 is the largest Hispanic class ever at Notre Dame. 
"The theme for the year is 'La alianza para m.a nueva frontera' which means 'the alliance for a new frontier' ... We expect to be a bigger, stronger voice on campus," Limon explained. 
There had already been a push for more Latin American Studies classes and more involvement by the Hispanic Alumni of Notre Dame. 
"Things have started moving along. We're heading in the right direction," said Limon. 
Notre Dame-Vanderbilt Tickets Available 1-Boo-852-7771 
• of\iHOPEDlC Sp/2, 
~os ~ c~ 
~~ ~ -~/IS';. 
Quick Service-Reasonable 
• 
Fix any leather goods 

• 
Replace zipper -Shine 


• Orthopedic & Pedorthic Specialist 
•Nou. 
I00% Guarantee
Dame 
8-6 Monday-


r-.­
Friday

Mario's ~ 
9-3 -Saturday 
>­
1025 East 
0 
0 
Madison
w 
larly appropriate in light of Clinton's 559-mile tour of West Virginia, Kentucky, Ohio, Michigan and Indiana while aboard an Amtrak train dubbed "The 21st Century Express." 
That theme was meant to dovetail with the focus of Clinton's re-election campaign. Clinton said the achievements of his first term would be used as a springboard to further progress. He repeatedly stated, "We've got to keep going." 
His speech was interrupted on several occasions by cheers from the crowd, chanting, "Four more years, four more years." 
He called for guaranteed health insurance for families headed by unemployed work­ers, tax cuts to stimulate invest­ment in small businesses, greater leeway with Individual Retirement Account funds to allow families to use the money to finance college educations, and tax credits for individuals pursuing post-high school edu­cation at community colleges. 
He also promised a vigorous fight on crime and drug use, a statement that came several days after a nationwide survey indicated that drug use had risen dramatically during 

Clinton's term in the White House. 
America must move toward an ideal in which people "come home at night, turn on the evening news, and the lead story is a crime story and you are shocked instead of being numb to it," Clinton said. 
He cited the welfare reform measure he signed last week as a step in the right direction. The bill ended the 60-year federal guarantee of open-ended assis­tance to the poor, and moved much of the control over wel­fare programs to the states. 
"There's been a lot of discus­sion about the welfare reform that I signed," Clinton said, " .... but we want Americans to succeed as parents and as workers." 
Tim Roemer, the U.S. repre­sentative from South Bend who is up for re-election in November, joined Clinton at the podium and spoke before the president gave his address. 
He supported Clinton's rejec­tion of previously proposed wel­fare legislation, saying, "President Clinton has explored a new path in welfare reform. We are moving forward." 
Also sharing the stage with Clinton, Bayh and Roemer were 

Spectators injured at rally 
A.isoci<lted Press 
. 
.. MICHIGAN CITY, Ind. 

A 20·foot•tall speaker stand toppled into the crowd of 40,000 waiting to see President Clinton on Wednesday after­noon, injuring at least a dozen 
people. · · 
The victims, at least two of whom were bleeding profusely, wore neck braces as they were carried out of the crowd on stretchers. Most suffered cuts 
and scrapes. None of the injuries was serious. The spectators were hurt 
Lt. Gov. Frank O'Bannon, who is seeking to succeed Bayh as governor, and Michigan City Mayor Sheila Bergerson Brillson, who accompanied Clinton on the last leg of the train ride from Battle Creek, Mich. 
Bayh, rumored as a possible running mate for Gore in 2000 and a possible presidential can­didate in later races, received high praise from Clinton. "I wouldn't be surprised if Evan Bayh comes back here as the president of the United States," Clinton said. 
when the portable speaker stand. made of gray metal and holding two speakers 3 feet long and about a foot and a half wide, fell .as the crowd waited for Clinton's train to arrive for its last campaign stop before the Democratic convention in 
Chicago.· 
The stand in Washington Park was about 25 yards away from the gazebo where Clinton appeared f!>r his speech about 1 
.

112 hours later. When the stand fell, its top landedabout 10 yards from a stage set up in front of the gazebo. 
Clinton's visit was the first by a sitting president to Michigan City since 1899. Clinton lauded the welcome he received by the town, which has a population of about 33,000. 
"I was interested to see it had been 97 years since a president had been to Michigan City," said Clinton, who spoke with the shore of Lake Michigan serving as the backdrop. "All I can say is that the rest of them didn't know what they were missing." 
The Associated Press con­tributed to this report. 
~----~----­ 1 I  
Thursday, August 29, 1996  The Observer • NATIONAL NEWS  page 5  



Pentagon knew of Iraqi weapons 
By ROBERT BURNS Associated Press 
WASIIINGTON 
The Pentagon acknowledged on Wednesday that it knew as far back as November 1991 that chemical weapons had been stored at an Iraqi ammu­nition depot that U.S. troops had demolished just months earlier. 
The Pentagon and other gov­ernment agencies aware of the presence of chemical weapons at the Kamisiyah ammunition storage facility did not realize in 1991, however, that American troops had been thue, spokesman Capt. MiehaPI Doubleday said. 
So a Novr.mber 1991 intelli­gence report indicating the presence of chemical shells at Kamisiyah -including one described as leaking -essen­tially was liled away and for­gotten even as the U.S. govern­ment continued to deny it had any evidence that large num­bers of troops might have been llXposed to chemical weapons. 
The estimated 150 U.S. troops who blew up Iraqi shells at Kamisiyah in March 1991, shortly after the conclu­sion of the Persian Gulf War, did not know they included chemical arms. 

Doubleday denied that the Pentagon had deliberately kept the troops in the dark. 
"The full relevance of the report ... was not recognized" until recently because in 1991 the Pentagon had failed to realize U.S. troops had been at Kamisiyah in southern Iraq and there was not yet any pub­lic concern about the mysteri­ous ailment known as Gulf War Syndrome, he said. 
Some critics doubted Doubleday's explanation. 
"1 don't believe" the Pentagon was unaware in 1991 that U.S. troops had blown up parts of the Kamisiyah bunker complex, said Lydia Pace of the Gulf War Veterans of Arkansas. 
She was an Air Force nurse during the war and she believes the Pentagon has dragged its feet in investigat­ing possible causes for Gulf War syndrome. 
Many of the troops of the 37th Engineer Battalion, who destroyed parts of the depot in March 1991, have since devel­oped debilitating illnesses, including infections, which they believe may be linked to their exposure to chemical w.eapons. 
Some of those troops, inter­viewed Sunday on CBS' "60 Minutes," said they had been told at the time not to don full protective gear, despite a chemical officer's warning that his tests detected the nerve gas sarin at the site. 
The chemical officer, Dan Tipulski, told "60 Minutes" he ignored a commander's order not to put on protective suits and wore his anyway, and he is the only man in his unit who is not ill. 
The Pentagon released copies of the November 1991 intelligence report after The New York Times reported on it in its Wednesday editions. 
The routing codes on the intelligence report show it was seen not only at the Pentagon but also at the White House, the State Department, the CIA and in numerous military com­mands around the world. 
It originally was classified secret, Doubleday said, and the version released Wednesday was heavily cen­sored. 

Second rash of fires in West expected 
By JEFF BARNARD 
Associated Press 
GRANTS PASS, Ore. 

Nearly 20,000 firefighters battled wildfires across the West on Wednesday as fed­eral authorities promised more Army reinforcements and tens of millions of dol­lars in emergency funds. 
A short stretch of cooler and sometimes rainy weath­er helped firefighters make progress on the 490,188 acres burning across Oregon, California, Idaho, Nevada and Montana, said Don Smurthwaite, spokesman for the National Interagency Fire Center in Boise, Idaho. 
"One wave has crashed, but we can see the next one coming," Smurthwaite said. 
More than 37,000 lightning strikes since Monday across Montana, Idaho and Wyoming had crews racing to put out new fires before they grow. 
With firefighting forces stretched thin, a battalion of Marines from Camp Pendleton, Calif., was put on alert for mobilization as extra firefighters. 
Interior Secretary Bruce Babbitt told NBC's "Today" show that he intends to rec­ommend that President Clinton seek additional emergency firefighting funds from Congress amounting to tens of millions of dollars. 
A total of 84,000 fires have burned 4.8 million acres across the nation this year, Smurthwaite said. That com­pares with a five-year aver­age of 59,050 fires covering 
1.9 million acres for this point in the year. 
"We've had a combination of a wet winter and spring and a tremendous drying tend that started in July cou­pled with lots of recent light· ing activity," he said. "You couldn't write a prescription for a worse fire situation than we have right now." 
CAMPUS MINISTRY... ...CONSIDERATIONS 
AND SO IT BEGINS ... 
A warm and hearty welcome to all from the staff of Campus Ministry. There is much excitement and anticipation, and sometimes a little trepidation, at the start of a school year. Be assured that I share in all of those sentiments. 
Allow me to introduce myself: my name is Jim Lies. My family name, Lies, is a fine German name which we haven't anglicized for obvious reasons. It is pronounced "lease." I am a Holy Cross religious and one of the new members of the Campus Ministry staff this year. 
Many things contribute to the excitement and anticipation that I personally feel around the beginning of this particular school year. While beginning a new position at Notre Dame ranks high on that list, primary among them is the fact that on this Saturday I will take Final Vows with the Congregation of Holy Cross, and on the following day be ordained a Deacon. It is the culmination of many years of preparation, and a day to which I have long looked forward. 
And so it begins ... another year in the history of this fine insti­tution. Whether it be your first or your last, it is a year filled with endless opportunities for love, for learning and for growth. I don't think it's going out on a limb to say that each of us is richly blessed to be here. The great challenge is to make of these days all that God would have them be. We at Campus Ministry look to join you in doing just that. It is a time to address the great questions, both of the academy and of life. 
These days provide a new beginning for me as well. I return to Notre Dame delighted with the opportunity to share in the happenings of this place, in its rich traditions and in the deep faith of this community ... not to mention the occasional foot­ball game. Indeed, it commences a very significant time for me as I begin a lifetime of ministry and as I move toward Ordination to the Presbyterate in the Spring. 
I revel in the opportunity to share these days with you. Let us agree not to waste one of them. Stop by my office in the O'Hara Lounge of the LaFortune Center, or the Campus Ministry Offices in Badin Hall or the Hesburgh Library and say hello to the Campus Ministry team. 
It is our sincere wish and prayer that these be the most fruit­ful days of your life and that as you attend to matters of the mind, you attend as well to the matters of the heart, and of the soul. 
Jim Lies, C.S.C. 
TWENTY-SECOND SUNDAY IN ORDINARY TIME 
Weekend Presiders at Sacred Heart Basilica 
Sat. August 31 5:00p.m. Rev. David Scheidler, C.S.C. Sun. Sept. 1 10:00 a.m. Rev. Daniel Jenky, C.S.C. 

Scripture Readings For 
Thts Coming Sunday  
1st Reading  Jeremiah 20: 7-9  
2nd Reading  Romans 12: 1-2  
Gospel  Matthew 16: 21-27  

page 6 

The Observer· CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, August 29, 1996 





Parking 
continued from page 1 
Formerly a popular tailgating lot, Green Field has become a reserved lot, unusable without a special pass. Red Field East has been divided into the Joyce and Joyce South lots, while Red Field West has been dubbed the Stadium Lot. "This is the best way to compensate for all the spaces we've lost," said Phillip Johnson, assistant director of Notre Dame Security. 
A stretch of Juniper Road between Bulla and Edison Roads will be blocked off on game days from 9 a.m.-6 p.m. Johnson felt confident that the county would approve such a move, primarily because the stadium now extends closer to the road. "There's less space for groups to congregate. People will probably spill over onto the road, so it's safer to have no cars on that stretch." 
Traffic control systems from previous years will be in full effect, according to Johnson. All roads will become one-way towards campus three hours prior to kickoff, and one-way leaving Notre Dame for one hour after the game has ended. 
Johnson asked that students and parents pay close attention to the one-way flow, which, combined with the closed road, makes access to dorms impos­sible. "Students often leave campus, only to return and dis­cover that they no longer have access to their parking lot because the one-way system is in effect. They need to note this 


Szabo 
continued from page 1 
Szabo says that the highlight of the experience was not the Washington Center's organized activities, but the opportunity they provided for meeting and networking with the powerful players in the Republican party. By shaking hands and offering unsolicited introductions, Szabo was able to chat with Elizabeth Dole, John McLaughlin, and Newt Gingrich. This small-scale politicking gained him access to the convention floor, a privilege most interns were not granted. 
While on the floor. Szabo noted, as did the majority of the nation's media, that the busi­ness of this year's convention was showcasmg the Republican party candidates themselves, rather than their actual nomi­nations. 
He likened the event to a and plan their errands accord­ingly." 
All vehicles will be directed into the public or reserved parking lots; Johnson recom­mends White Field as the most convenient. "It will be much faster to enter the Notre Dame area from the north, and it is bigger than the Blue lot," he noted. 
All drivers with passes for the reserved lots must enter cam­pus from the south. 
A new regulation also pro­hibits recreational vehicles from remaining on campus overnight. "It makes eminent sense to provide parking for RVs," Johnson stated, "but we are not set up with the correct facilities for overnight camp­ing." 
In addition to the public lots, RVs may park in a special RV lot southeast of the Joyce Center, adjacent to the Joyce and Blue lots. Access will be granted to these vehicles at 
7:45 a.m. on game days. with the expectation that they vacate the areas no more than three hours after the game's conclu­sion. 
For overnight parking, RVs are required to move to local campgrounds. 
Other notable traffic informa­tion: 
• 
TRANSPO will offer a shut­tle service between White Field and the stadium. Additional shuttles will run from lots at Saint Mary's College and St. Joseph High School. For more information, call 233-2131. 

• 
Information about area campgrounds can be obtained from the Notre Dame parking office at 631-5053. 


Hollywood production, with everything happening the way it was supposed to -no surpris­es. Szabo went on to explainthat the scripted nature of the convention, which Szabo said upset the news media, was in fact an effort to prevent the kind of disaster that happened at the 1992 convention in Houston. 
"They (the news media) were upset because there was noth­ing to criticize. There was no controversy. No Pat Buchanan talking about cultural war, or threatening to have his delega­tion walk out. In fact, he and his delegates were probably cheer­ing the loudest," Szabo said. 
Szabo is now considering the pursuit of a law degree after he graduates, and he would like to return to California, his home state, to work in some area of government. 
"Someday in the future, I might like to run for Congress." Szabo stated, addin~ that the internship was "an mcredibly valuable experience." 


No-w Hiring••• 
"W"eb Production Team. Members 
W<"·~dwi<f., _'Veb l'ubJishing o(· e:a.<h ()br·e.r...,<'!T issu.:-­

The Web Production Tean1 Me~nbers are responsible for publishing t:he daily edition of t:he Observer on t:he Internet, The Observer 
offers one o£the best learning opportunities f'or 'W"orldwide Web publishing. IE you are interested, please subDJ.it: a one page letter o£ Intent: describing your experience to Ja.son Huggins at: The Observer, 314 LaFortune Student Center, by Tuesday, Septe~nber 3. Fresh~nen encouraged to apply. 

Foran 
continued from page 1 
tion. 
·But for a town of 33,000 that has not seen a presidential visit in 97 years, the little city was rather overwhelmed... both with pride and with the magnitude of planning the event. 
The event was not even confirmed until August 22, a mere six days before Clinton was to appear. 
The gazebo area of Washington Park was transformed from a innocuous grassy sprawl to a fenced off, high security area crawling with police and Secret Service agents. The beach, usually accessible from the park, was closed to allow the area to be sealed by Secret Service and 
S.W.A.T team members. 
Despite the magnitude of the preparations involved, the enthusiam and response of the city point to the effectiveness of this particular politi­cal tactic. Long after Clinton's helicoptor has glid­ed across the lake and safely landed in Chicago, residents of Michigan City will continue to remem­ber that President Clinton thought their city was important enough to pause for a few words. 
Residents of my hometown, whether they attended the speech by Clinton or not, will be inundated by news of the event for days to come. They realize that the event will be a feature on every news broadcast from the local station (which broadcasts elementary Christmas plays ... ) to CNN. Not bad for a city of 33,000. 
Michigan City Mayor Sheila Bergerson brimmed with pride as she introduced the presi­dent. 
"It has been 97 years since a sitting president has come to visit the city of Michigan City," she said. 
"All I can say is that the rest of (the other pres­idents) didn't know what they were missing," Clinton later responded, followed by deafening cheers from the crowd. 
Clinton endeared himself to the crowd even further, commenting not on Bergerson Brillson's accomplishments after only eight months in office, but rather on that he was impressed by her family. "Anyone who could raise six kids could do any job in the world, including be presi­dent," he said. 
Although public speaking is a closely orches­trated and practiced art, Clinton's words did seem sincere. He generated warmth and a feel­ing of "realness" that is often lacking in the pre­sentations of many politicians. 
Although I have made disparaging remarks about my hometown on a number of occasions, the placing of my hometown, the stomping grounds of my younger years, on the map is not something that I or my fellow Michigan Citians are likely to forget soon. Our small dot on the map got a presidential seal of approval. 
e~~~4-~~ ~~()~ad. 
FALL BREAK SEMINARS October 20-25, 1996 Experiential/Service Learning CENTER FOR SOCIAL CONCERNS  
APPALACHIA SEMINAR -S.ervi~e learning at 9re of ~elve 1s1tes m the Appa ach1an reg1on -One-credit Theology -Information meeting (optional): WASHINGTON SEMINAit Monday, Sept. 9, 7:30-8:00 PMTheme: Education in America -Direct contact with political, agency, and Church leaders in Washmgton, D.C. CULTURAL DIVERSITY SEMINAR -Service and political awareness opportunities -Explore the cultural richness of Chicago _One-credit Theology or Government -Examines issues of diversity and related . . concerns-Information meeting: -One-credit Theology or SociologyMonday, Sept. 9, 7:00-7:30 PM -Cosponsored with Multicultural { Student Affairs AI~~ -Information meeting: ffij il J~ ~ Thursday, Sept. 5, 4:15-4:45 PM~t L~ ':Jf ~-~ ' -------------------------------------------------------------+-Applications Available Now at the Center for Social Concerns Applications Due: September 1 1 , 1996 All Seminars Depart Sunday Morning, Oct. 20th  

Professor Walter F. Pratt, Jr. will have a final meeting to inform you of deadline dates and the application process on 
Tuesday, September 3, 1996 7:00p.m. 101 Law School 
If you are unable to attend this meeting, a sheet of information may be obtained in 102-B O'Shaughnessy Hall after the meeting date. 

--~---------------------~---~-------------------------------------------­
Thursday, August 29, 1996 The Observer • INTERNATIONAL NEWS page 7 

Khmer Rouge claims surrounding key city 
Associated Press 

PHNOM PENH. Cambodia 
Khmor Rouge guerrillas loyal to Pol Pot have sur­rounded a city controlled by a dissident faction and were preparing to attack, Khmer Rouge radio claimed. 
The dissidents control the strategic Pailin area -a gem-rid1 region in the north­wt~st that has beon crucial to funding the Khmer Rouge war effort. They are com­manded by Y Chhean, a vet­eran guerrilla leader who split from Pol Pot earlier this month. 
"We will not allow the trai­tors to escape our hands," the radio report said. "Our fighters have rebelled and continue to rebel against Y Chhean, seeking to take his life." 
The report could not be independently confirmed. A dissident Khmer Rouge offi­cer reached by telephone from Phnom Penh said it was untrue. 
Pol Pot's 1975-79 Khmer Rouge regime caused the deaths of an estimated 2 mil­lion Cambodians in a manic attempt to build an agrarian, communist utopia. 
An estimated 600 to 1,000 of the approximately 5,500 Khmer Rouge guerrillas have joined the dissidents -led by Pol Pot's brother-in-law long Sary -who are trying to negotiate peace with the government. 
In his first news conference since breaking ranks, Sary said his split from Pol Pot stemmed from a groundswell of support from guerrillas and civilians "who aspire to see a speedy end to the war in order to realize the nation­al reconciliation and national union." 
Sary said he and his follow­ers believe Cambodia "will be reduced to nothing if the Khmer people continue to fight against each other indefinitely." 

reference software. Buy a ThinkPad and you'll get Windows 95 and Lotus Smartsuite. You can also take advantage of special student, faculty and staff financing. Just caii1-800-41BM-LOAN for information. Hurry, visit 
• PALESTINE 


Legislature strikes against Israel 
By SAID GHAZALI 
Associated Press 
RAMALLAH, West Bank 
Vasser Arafat accused Israel on Wednesday of declaring war on Palestinians by expanding West Bank settlements, and the Palestinian legislative council called for an end to contacts with the Jewish state. 
The Palestinian leader's attack was his toughest yet on the 3-month-old government of Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu, ordering a general strike Thursday and mass prayers Friday to protest planned expansion of Jewish settlements. 
"They declared war on us," Arafat said. 
Arafat's strike call appeared to signal a return to tactics reminiscent of the Palestinian uprising, and his tough rhetoric indicated deepening loss of faith in peace and a reversion to words of war. 
The moves came in response to Israeli plans to build 900 new apartments in the Jewish settlement of Kiryat Sefer and Israel's demolition this week of 

Buy an IBM PC 340 or 350
See •~ampus 

desktop computer and an
t;omputer store 

IBM Multimedia Kit. And

for details. 

you'll get a CD software package that includes Windows 95, Lotus SmartSuite, Netscape Navigator, World Book Multimedia Encyclopedia and the lnfopedia collection of essential 
IBM aoo lhlnki'>ll&le 1811 ~teled 11>\lemal\s llllnlematrona\Bu~n"s Mac"""' CofllOI'Ilon. Windows Is a18\)\sleled lladam&ll. ol Mlt10SOtt COfllOI&tiOn. \llhe1 company, product o1 seiVicll names may be tmdemal\s 01 seiVIca mal\s ol olha11. ICI\996\BM CoiJI. All nghts reserved. 
------· ~-.. ---------------------­
your campus computer store today. After all, no one looks good in acheckered apron. 
-~-­


=='=':'=«o 

a youth center in disputed east Jerusalem. 
The new West Bank settle­ments would end a four-year curb on expansion. 
Palestinians have also become increasingly bitter over Netanyahu's refusal to meet with Arafat and his failure to commit to withdrawing troops from most of the West Bank city 

'They declared war on us.' 
Yasser Arafat 

of Hebron, as agreed in the self­rule accords. 
Netanyahu reacted angrily to Arafat's challenge, saying Israel takes "a very grave view of all attempts to bring about an esca­lation or violence that are likely to harm the peace process." 
David Bar-Illan, a top aide to the prime minister, called the council's move "muscle-flex­ing" and "an unfortunate esca­lation of rhetoric." 
Arafat was present at the council meeting that called for ending contact with Israel and did not oppose the action. He has the authority to make the final decision on whether to continue relations with IsraeL 
Netanyahu "has changed the policies against peace," deputy council speaker Rahi Sayouh 
WANTED: 20 Paid Student Callers Students looking for part-time job that will give them real life experience in an enjoyable work environment, calling alumni on behalf of the Notre Dame Annual Fund. 
REWARD: 
Training, evening hours, $5.95/hour. 
Fit the description? (No experience necessary.) Stop by one of our information sessions on Thursday, August 29 at 4pm or 5prn at the Development Phone Center (northeast corner of Brownson Hall, 
next to Lewis Hall).  ..  
Questions?  Call Katy Hart (1-7241).  ~  
-e- 

BECOME A CATHOLIC 
Sacred Heart Parish University of Notre Dame 
Offers 
R.C.I.A. with: 
• 
Paa·ish setting on Nl> (~ampus 

• 
\Vednesday evening sessions 


• i\lt(wnative to CamJlUs Minista·y HCIA 
Call Chris Miller at 631-7 508 
said. "It is necessary for the Palestinian people to draw up a comprehensive plan to confront Israel's declaration of war against the Palestinian people." 
The general strike -the first ordered by the Palestinian lead­ership since the start of self­rule in May 1994 -was sched­uled to last from 8 a.m. to noon Thursday. The protest was like­
ly to shut businesses and schools and halt transportation in the West Bank, Gaza Strip and east Jerusalem. 
General strikes were a com­mon tool of protest during the 1987-1993 Palestinian uprising against Israeli occupation. Strikes are mainly intended to demonstrate Palestinian unity, and cause little harm to Israel's economy. 
Arafat also urged Palestinians to attend Friday noon prayers at Jerusalem's AI Aqsa Mosque in large numbers, suggesting they should defy Israel's six­month blockade of the West Bank and Gaza which bars Palestinians from entering Israel. Saturday and Sunday should also be set aside for protests, he said. 
------------------------------------~----------------------------------­







VIEWPOINT 
page 8 Thursday, August 29, 1996 
THE OBSERVER 
NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, iN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1996-97 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Elizabeth Foran Managing Editors Business Manager Patricia Carson Matt Casey Tom Roland 
News Editor ........................ Brad Prendergast Advertising Manager ............................ EIIen Ryan Viewpoint Editor .................. Meaghan Smith Ad Design Manager ............................... Jed Peters Spons Editor .....................Timothy Sherman Production Manager ....................... Tara Grieshop Accent Editor........................... Joey Crawford Systems Manager ............................ Sean Gallavan 
Saint Mary's Editor ................. Caroline Blum Controller.......................................... Tyler Weber Photo Editor .......................... Michael Ruma 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does nor necessarily reflect the policies of the administra­tion ofeither institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned edi­torials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Spotts Editor, and Saint Maty's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Columns present the views of the authors, and not necessarily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Maty's com­
munity and to all readers. The free expression of varying opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 
Editor~in-Chief 631-4542 Business Office 631-5313 Managing EditorNiewpoinr 631-4 541 Advertising 631-6900/8840 Sports 631-4543 Systems/Marketing Dept. 631-8839 News/Photo 631-5323 Office Manager 631-7471 Accent/Saint Maty's 631-4 540 Fax 631-6927 Day Editor/Production 631-5303 Viewpoint E-Mail Viewpoint.! @nd.edu General Information 631-7471 Ad E-Mail observer@darwin.cc.nd.edu 

• WHEN PIGS FlY 
The truth about colle 
Freshmen: hold this truth to be self· evident -by living here on campus, you are now in the Real World. 
In the next four years, you will hardly change at all. The people you meet dur· ing your first week will be your friends' forever. You will not be homesick. 
Bernadette Pampuch 

You will keep up with all of your high school friends. Long-distance relation­ships will thrive. You will have a very low phone bill your first month o school. Your parents will not worry about you. 
Social activities during your Freshman year will be rewarding and useful. You will meet the man or woman of your dreams at the Graffiti Dance. The Dogbook is your friend. Your first will not be a disaster. Alcohol will be involved. The things you learned as class you need most will never be can­president of Students Against Driving celed after you've finally managed to 
Drunk will not come back to haunt you. register for it. The textbooks you need Your roommate will be perfect. Your for class will always be available in the roommate will love and respect you and Bookstore at fair, reasonable prices. your personal property; if you are a You will sell them back and' make lots of 
morning person, your roommate will money. never stay up studying and eating Classes will be the only importantCheetos at three in the morning. Your thing about college life. You will not be 
roommate will never bring his girlfriend late, sleepy, or confused. Your profes­over to spend the night. Parietals will sors will remember your name. You will always be observed. You will never remember theirs. find yourself standing outside the dorm Classes will be just like they were in of the opposite sex in your pajamas after high school. Professors will appreciate an impromptu fire drill. your maturity when you giggle and pass 
Communal showers will be warm and notes in class. They will like it when inviting. The mattresses will be soft. you say things like, "But in my highGetting up in the morning will be easy. school..." This will not mark you as a 
DARTing is simple; standing in line for freshman. registration at Saint Mary's is quick, You will be awed at how simple it is to simple, up-to-date and convenient. The use a computer. You will always make 



e life ... and then some 
You will be respected. You will know your way around campus in broad day­light. You will never lock yourself out of your room. Upperclassmen will never take one look at you looking at your map and proclaim you "freshman." 
You will get off campus often, espe­cially if you don't have a car. You will freely and actively interact with the South Bend community, getting to know the world outside of Saint Mary's and Notre Dame. 
You will be accepted. If you are gay or lesbian, the community will welcome you with open arms. If you are worried that the curriculum in your major is too Eurocentric, your opinion will never be viewed as unjustified whining. If you have a conservative opinion to express, people will attack your arguments and not you personally. 
The Observer will always print your letter to the editor. 
Your tastes will not change. You will never wear plaid. You will never make fun of people who do. 
You will not stray from the meal plan. The food in the dining hall will be tasty, hot, and well-seasoned. You will carry your I.D. with you at all times and never, ever attempt to sneak into lunch. You will not steal forks. knives, plates or cups from Food Services. You will never know the Papa John's pizza delivery number by heart. You will never pay for a pizza with a personal check. 
You will never complain about the weather. You will learn to appreciate South Bend's gentle changing of the sea­sons, the warm springs and cool sum· mers. If you are from the South, you will not start wearing your winter jacket in September. You will always be happy. 
You will never be discouraged. You will never have a bad day, wish you were back home, or fail at something important. You will never lose a friend, be disappointed, cry. or be hurt. 
After all, it's the real world. 
Bernadette Pampuch is a senior at Saint Mary's College. 
your most important term papers. You will never erase a 15­page comp the night before it is due. You will learn to use time efficiently by playing with e-mail and browsing the Internet. 
Transportation will be easy. Your bike will never be stolen, and shuttles will always run on time. You will have leisurely walks across the Quads trying to make it to class. You will never lock yourself into the tunnels at Saint Mary's by forgetting your I.D. card. Your pro­fessors will be understanding. 
You will be pleased, always, with the performance of the football team. You will never attempt to scalp your tickets. You will never attempt to sell your ticket application. You will never lend your 
I.D. to someone two feet shorter and four years older than you. 

• 000NESBURY GARRY TRUDEAU 
HliUO, tAI?Y, I'M &tMONT W~ FOR. FOX N&IA/5! IUHAT I IA/ANT70 KNOtu IS WHY 
TH& PARJYffA<3 A8ANI?ONEI? 
TH& PRJ!?& ot= OUR. 
CITY 5TRE£T5­
7H&,ANI7Y­
CiiA/JJ3NI3EP? 

(l(} YOU KNOUJ U/HAT 1751.1/<E 70 ~XPa?J&NCE GIRON/& MOO{) 51AJ//V(jl3?W YCVKNfJI,{I /A/HAT 
fT'§LIKe 70H&AI< A VOle£IN YOUR HeAIJ VR l:Jtl)'!;R.IJI"1Niflt7?1 
• 0UOTE OF THE DAY 
"Fame is no plant that grows on mortal soil.." 
-John Milton 

----~~-----~·~ -~-·--­
"~----------·­



ACCENT 
Thursday August 29, 1996 page 9 
lf@W W©~1TI? ~~®0@~0 ~rnJW W@@ ®~~ [h)®W~ lf@ ~~ ~®~~ ®lf ~@lf~~ ©®~~ ®~© 0®cr~lf ~®~W\)0 ~©fbfL~®~ 
·:~ (t.::::' '• 

~~® ®® W>~rrfr~©rmcr~rr ®rr@J®rr] 
I 
• I
the weather you ran out of stuff to do with your free time sleeping until noon I 
was overrated no squirrels to feed at home the food at home just 
wasn't greasy enough a long-awaited reunion with that significant other or a long-awaited 
escape from that significant other the protective and loving hand of your rector 
or rectress the night life in South Ber1d the Observer 
your lungs and nose long for ethanol LOU xour parents can't 
--'~=~:i':.i:,~':"!!'·· .:~~?":~.,·. ·=:~,Jr.;-:.{J~~~1.~¥ 
"""' 

see what you're doing to stand in Bookstore lines 
FOOTBALL FOOT;6~LL ~OOTBALL 
KNOWING SYR SEASON IS JUST AROUND TH-E CORNE R~tO CheCk 0 U t 1: 

w
everyone's new hairstyle to snow off your tan to take 
advantage of a brief but fantastic rollerblade season to camP out for 
football tickets TO PRACT~Ct PROXOVMC~XG Ttft XAMtS Of Ttft MtW DORMS 
~· l 
1 
to spend hours getting acquainted with the chairs~~'in the library so your jeal­

.,.~, b 
& 


ous friends that have joined the real working world can call y -and tell yol:J how much they
,.,Mfflllll%"5:'<" 

'-.. . . @.' 
miss college to experience South ~end"ff'Oepl-f;ality so you can 
, ::·~. ·'··1;·w. .. 
start planning Spring Break your long-await~~~P n tsLO shirt University 
. ·~?;;i,~f 1 ~: 

Park Mall the walk out to 02000 you wanted~to spend all the 
I 
money you made this summer on books Papa John's you want to try out your new ID Bridget's e-mail the Mishawaka Brewery THE SHIRT AnTostal the joy of parietals the new North Dining hall decor you'll never have to walk all 13 floors of Grace Hall ever again new sidewalks I'm n0 t! ! ! 
page 10 The Observer • SPORTS Thursday, August 29, 1996 
• GOLF 


Tiger turns pro 
By ARNIE STAPLETON 
Associated Press 

On the eve of his profession· al debut, Tiger Woods was so calm that his biggest worryWednesday was where to get somethin~ to eat. 
"I don t know where to stay, what restaurants to eat at, so I'm going to have to stick with McDonald's, some­thing greasy," said the 20· year-old golfer who will play his first pro round Thursday in the Greater Milwaukee Open. · 
Facing the biggest expecta· tions of any player coming out of the amateur ranks since Jack Nicklaus 35 years a~o. Woods discussed his decisiOn to leave Stanford University for huge endorsement dollars. The defining moment, he said, came Sunday when he won his record third straight 
U.S. Amateur title in a dra· matic 38th-hole playoff. 
"Sunday night. after I gothome, l told m,Y parents, 'Yep,it's time to go, ' Woods said. 
So there be was Wednesday, getting lost on 
his way to Brown Deer Park Golf Course, leaving him little time to practice for the pro­am, where he shot a 2.under­par 69. 
Woods didn't even have his $100 entry fee. So, his swing coach, Butch Harmon, bailed him out, telling him: ''I'll loan it to you. You're probably good for it." 
Is he ever. 
Although Woods said he bas not finalized any endorse­mentcontracts so far, the golfing prodigy who took his first swings while still in dia· pers will receive endorsement riches never dreamed of by a golfer.
"I haven't signed for a penny yet," he said, but acknowledged that he is working out contract details with Nike and Titleist. The Nike deal is for a reported $40 million over five years. 
"I haven't seen any checks in the mail yet, so I'm still broke," he said. "A lot of peo­ple around me can attest to that. Last night we went out to dinner, and they were telling me I'm pro now." 
Belle slams Tigers for sweep 
Associated Press The Indians are the fifth AL team to sweep an 
opponent in a season. Oakland was the last to do 
Albert Belle hit a grand slam Wednesday as it, winning 12 straight from New York in 1990. Cleveland beat Detroit 9-3, completing the first Belle's 43rd home run and seventh career season sweep against the Tigers in their history. grand slam came during a six-run sixth when the 
Jim Thome homered for the third straight Indians broke a 2-2 tie. game, Jeff Kent also hit a home run and Ore! Belle hit the next pitch from A.J. Sager (3-3) Hershiser (14-7) won his fourth straight decision into the left-field seats. One out later, Brian Giles for the Indians, who finished 12-0 against the walked and scored on Kent's second homer, a Tigers this year. liner to right off Richie Lewis. 
Detroit became the 12th team in major league The Tigers tied it 1-1 in the third when Curtis history to get swept in a season series. The last Pride led off with a bloop single and Mark Lewis time it happened was 1994, when Montreal went walked. Detroit added a run in the seventh on 12-0 against San Diego. singles by Phil Nevin and Brad Ausmus, and 
Mark Lewis' RBI groundout. 


Expos rally to halt streak 
Associated Press  wild-card spot.  Eric Karros hit a run-scor­ 
With two outs, Henry  ing grounder in the first for a  
David Segui's two-out single  Rodriguez hit a bloop double  1-0 lead. Mike Piazza hit an  
in the ninth inning drove in  off Chan Ho Park (5-4) and  RBI single in the second and  
the winning run as the  .Segui followed with a line  Karros followed with a run­ 
Montreal Expos rallied from a  drive single to right.  scoring single for a 3-0 edge.  
five-run deficit to beat the Los  Rodriguez easilY. scored ahead  Greg Gagne and Todd  
Angeles Dodgers 6-5  of Raul Mondes1's throw.  Hollandsworth hit RBI dou­ 
Wednesday night.  Mel Rojas (7 -4), who  bles in the fourth to make it  
A misplayed fly ball in the  entered the game in the ninth,  5-0, chasing Leiter.  
eighth helped the Expos stop  pitched one scoreless inning  Segui hit an RBI single in  
Los Angeles' five-game win­ for the win.  the Expos fourth and pinch­ 
ning streak. Montreal moved  The Expos, trailing 5-0 in  hitter Cliff Floyd drew  
one-half game ahead of the  the fourth, scored three times  Montreal to 5-2 with a run­ 
Dodgers in the race for the NL  in the eighth to tie it at 5.  scoring single in the fifth.  

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. 
Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
Classifieds 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. 
Classitieds Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 
---­ ROOMMATES NEEDED!!!  Buy-trade all games & season  N.D. FOOTBALL GA TIX  ATIENTION ALL MACHINES  
NOTICES  MOTHER OF THREE · FOUR MONTHS TO FOUR YEARS ·  Females/non-smokers preferred. 3 Bedroom House• Fully Furnished'  GA's. 24 hours & local cash pick· up. 312-404-4903  BOUGHT & SOLD 232·2378 ·A.M.  ND's #1-rated band from last  
NEEDS HELP WITH CHILDCARE,  Washer/Dryer·  288·2726 ·P.M.  year- 
Entertainment Electronics Co.  TRANSPORTING CHILDREN AND  2 Fireplaces'10 min drive from  *******************************  
3509 Grape Rd (@ Classic Stereo)  LIGHT HOUSEKEEPING. TWEN·  campus. $275 (utilities included)  I need r.~udent Ticket books I  ND ALUM NEEDS FOOTBALL  REVEREND  FUNK  
255·1172  TY TO TWENTY FOUR HOURS A  Call Natalie 291·7030.  Leave a message  SEASON TICKETS FOR PERSON·  
Hrs: M·F 11·5 Sat  10·2  WEEK. $6.00 TO $6.50 PER  lor Bryan at:  AL USE ONLY WILL PAY WELL  is recruiting to its ministry two  
You break it, we'll fix it!ll  HOUR TIMES ARE FLEXIBLE, BUT MORNINGS PREFERRED.  FOR SALE  273·2812 $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$  2773097  humans that play either  
THAT PRETIY PLACE, Bed and  OWN TRANSPORTATION, REF·  WILL TRADE 2 VANDERBILT TIX  TRUMPET or SAXOPHONE  
Breakfast Inn has space available  ERENCES, CHEERY DISPOSI·  89 tercel 80k auto $3200  **********************  FOR 2 BC OR ANY HOME GAME  
lor football wknds. 5 Rooms with  TION, AND EXPERIENCE WITH  271·8280  2773097  Must have superior experience,  
private baths, $70 · $90,  YOUNG CHILDREN REQUIRED!  NOTRE DAME· VANDERBILT  an attitude (no wallflowers), and a  
Middlebury, 30 mHes from campus.  CALL 2'7~·3237 TO APPLY! ·  · - FOOTBALL TICKETS NEEDED  paio of dancing shoes to receive.  <IIJI•  
Toll Road, Exit #107,  Mac Pwrbk 150,$500  TICKETS AVAILABLE  FOR OSU GAME 2 AND 2  the funk injection.  
1-800-418-9487  Part time help at Planet Tan.  Mac Pwrbk 5300cs, $2000  OR 4 TICKETS TOGETHER  
Walking distance from campus.  271·8280  1·800·852·7771  CALL ROBT. COLLECT  Make big cash playing at local  
Papa John's is now hiring delivery drivers, order takers and  Flexible hours, $5.25 per hour. Call 277 ·1166 or apply in person. 2128  Who Needs A Bed?  •••••••••••••• * •••••••  216·439·2192 AFTER 4  parties and establishments, have fun doing what you do best, get  
pizza makers. Top pay, flexible  South Bend Ave, across from  2 new single beds lor salel  NEED 2 PURDUE TICKETS! ill  free boarding with the band on the  
hours, close to campus locations.  Martin's.  Mattress, Boxspring, and  I NEED FOOTBALL GA'S!  PLEASE CALL X3886  Interplanetary Funk Mothership,  
50% off pizzas. Call your Papa now  Headboard included. Asking $275  WILL BEAT ANY OFFER!  and help us spread the FUNK.  
lor information or stop by lor an  NATIONAL PARKS HIRING·  each. Call Jarrod at  CALL 243-1287  WANTED TO BUY OHIO STATE  
application. ND · 1827 South Bend Ave. (formerly Cactus Jack's) 271·  Positions are now availalbe at National Parks, Forests & Wildlife  234-7601.  •  * ••• * •• * ••  OR WASH. VS. ND.D TIX· CALL DAVE (614)764·7355  To schedule a tryout (serious musi· cians only) call Dave at 288-91 02.  
1177. SMC ·North Village Mall  Preserves. Excellent benefits +  1986 Accord LXI Hatchback 5 spd  Need 2 Purdue GAs  
271-PAPA.  bonuses! Call: 1·206·971-3620  loaded rustprooled excellent car  Will pay $50 a piece  Buying N.D .. Football Tickets,  LOOK FOR REVEREND FUNK UP  
HAVE AN IDEA THAT CAN BE  extN55848  1 05k miles $3500 271-1040  Call Jon at 634-1389 ...........  Public and Faculty Seats Call 1·800-255-2850  AND RUNNING SOON AT YOUR FAVORITE LOCAL BAR  
MARKETED ON THE INTERNET? NEED PERSON CONNECTED  ALASKA SUMMER EMPLOYMENT • Students Needed! Fishing  sola sleeper lor sale sleeps 2 seats 3 $200. beige, 5 yrs old  Need: two tickets to Purdue game  Will trade 4 Purdue-N.D. tkts. lor 2  .....................................  
NET TO HELP GET IT STARTED?  Industry. Earn up to $3,000·  i am 1 mile from nd call 272-3491  and one ticket to Washington game.  Texas-N.D. tkts.  
WE CAN TALK. CALL TOM 288·  $6,000+ per month. Room and  after 3 pm matt no stains, burns.  Call Travis@ 219·634·1580.  Call 800 572-9346  THE COPY SHOP  
5655  Board! Transportation! Male or  in the LaFortune Student Center  ..  
1010 35TH SOUTH BEND IF YOU SEE A BEITER WAY TO  Female. No experience necessary. Call (206)971-3510 extA55847  KINGSIZE WATERBED WITH  Need stud. tkt app I book! $$$ x4893  NEED PURDUE TIX PLEASE CALL X4717  is NOW HIRING student employees!  _,  
DO IT YOURSELF PLEASE DO IT.  WAVELESS MATIRESS &  Stop in lor details and to apply.  ~  
Dorm Furnitiure. Yard Sale. Infant,  EASTERN EUROPE JOBS· Teach basic conversational English  HEATER BEST OFFER OVER 150.00 277·1711  NEEDED:  Need Two Washington G.A.'s lor family, my tuition depends on it  Heyllll COME JOIN THE KNIGHTS  J'  
kid's & women clothes. Computer,  in Prague, Budapeot, or Krakow. No  ' MARRIED STUDENT TICKETS  Will pay HUGE bucks!  OF COLUMBUS (the largest ser- 
Math & other books. Sat. Aug.31 &  teaching certificate or European  Smith Corona Spell-Right  FOR  SEASON  Call Matt@ 234·8474  Thanks.  vice, social, and religious organiza­ ~  
Sun Sep.1, 9-5. 52795 Hollyhock.  languages required. Inexpensive  Dictionary Word Processing  lion at Notre Dame, and in the  ~  
Between Cleveland & Darden Students: Do you need a typist? Call Kathy at 277·2178.  Room & Board + other benefits. For info. call: (206)971·3680 extK55842 FOR RENT  Typewriter XD 7600. Used just 5 hours. $150 or best offer. Call Sharon 284·4603 (8·4:40pm) CAR FOR SALE 1993 EAGLE TAON ES HATCH·  'GAs FOR OSU WILL BARGAIN, CALL 258-6056 Need Purdue & Ohio tix. Will pay  Will pay big bucks lor student sea­son tix. Matt @ 234·8474. FINANCIAL REWARDS AWAIT  country!). We're having open house every night-come by and have a Coke!  I :~  
50% off· used books bought/sold. 2  BACK 16VWHITE  $$. Also have Rutgers tix to trade or  YOU! Alum seeks happiness &  GREEN LANTERN is looking lor a  
day ordering, any textbook. 4  Nice 2BR+ 1 Bath Apt. 5 mins from  Fully-Equipped, Like New in Perfect  sell. Call Erin #4030  fuzzy school memories. Will gleeful·  bass player. Call Dan 3674  
blocks South (Notre Dame ·  campus. 289·3790  Condition, Reasonably Priced  ly pay TOO MUCH $ lor 2 GA tixs.  
Howard.) 7 days 10·6; 233·2342.  Call273·8997 or 631·5884  " HEADIN' TO TEXAS ..  OHIO & WASHINGTON preferred,  HAPPY 32nd ANNIVERSARY  "  
Pandora's books.  Can you sell us ND · UT tix? call  but not picky. Please call our busi·  
WANTED  Non smoking female roommate wanted to share nice home. Large bedroom, completely furnished.  TICKETS  Todd x1668 or Shan x1833 Need 3 RESERVED SEAT tickets  ness collect, (9-4), & ask lor TED or JENNIFER. 616·925-{)629  MOM AND DAD!II $5.50 HAIRCUT  
$300 depositl$300 month. 9 or 12  G.A.s  SEASON TICKETS G.A  lor WASH.  Call Brian@ 1648.  WANTED--­ VITO'S BARBERSHOP  
CHILDCARE POSITION:  month lease.  You'll love it Call  WANTED  PLEASE HELP IF  MARRIED STUDENT TICKETS  1523 LINCOLNWAY WEST  
2:30 to 5:00, 3·4 days a week in our  631-1297.  YOU  CAN CALL; 273-6929  I NEED 2 PURDUE GA'S  AND REGULAR STUDENT TICK·  SOUTH BEND  
Auten Rd home for two boys, ages  PLEASE CALL ANDREW  ETS $$$$$$  8·5·M·F  
7 and 9.  Must have car and refer­ 3 BDRM HOUSE  Need Married Stuaent tickets. Call  X1942  CALL KIM MARTIN  8-4 ·SAT  
ences.  $6.50/hr  NORTH OF N.D.  soon!  272·7223  273-4789  
Call631-8301 day, 277·4422  277·3097  NOTRE DAME GA'S WANTED  Sarah, why don't people just leave  
evening.  1, 2 & 3 BDRM HOMES NEAR  Wanted: student season tickets. 272·7223  ALL GAMES HOME AND AWAY  PERSONAL  them alone ...because, gosh darn it, they're pygmies!  
OUTBACK STEAKHOUSE, Grape  CAMPUS. AVAIL. NOW.272-6306  232·0058  
Road, Mishawaka, is expanding its  Wanted: GAs lor all games, sea·  24 HRS.  Student Activities is accepting  Dear Sparky and Steindog, we are  
staff lor the ND Football season.  FURNISHED ROOM, AIR,  son GAs. Call soonl272·7223  BUY • SELL • TRADE  applications lor:  the embodient of all that is tired and  
Outgoing, sell-motivating individu·  KITCHEN, PHONE, 3 MIN. N. OF  Sound Tachs  overworked!! Love, HAC & R2V2  
als should apply in person. Now hir- CAMPUS.  WANTED: FOOTBALL TIX APPS.  TICKET·MART,INC.  Set Up Crew  
ing for wait, bus and host positions.  272·0615.  $CALL JENNY @ 687-8435$  Irish Express Clerks  Juice ·Thanks lor the laundry,  
Come in after 3pm today!  WANTED: NOTRE DAME GA'S  24 Hr. Lounge Monitors  remind me to make you that soup  
ROOM CLOSE TO CAMPUS  I will pay big $$$ lor student lb  ANY/ALL GAMES. PLEASE CALL  recipe that I have, OK? Sorry you  
BABYSITIER NEEDED 1·2 DAYS  MEALS LAUNDRY CLEANING  books. Call Katie @ 243·9038.  232·0061.  Apply at 315 LaFortune between  couldn't lind the nozzle push bar,  
PER WEEK IN MY GRANGER  LIBRARY COMPUTER & MODEM  8am-5pm.  hope you can build the loft without  
HOME. TWO CHILDREN AGES 6  Mike 232·0550  Wanted: Student ticket books or  I NEED GA TIXS ALL HOME  it Ah, we leave nowl Love, H  
& 8 FROM 3:30 PM · 6:00 PM.  student ticket applications.  GAMES.272·6551  Get your new theology & philoso- 
MUST HAVE RELIABLE TRANS·  1 BDRM. IN 3-BDRM HOME.  Call x-1035.  phy books at 20% OFF at LaSalle  322 announces the grand opening  
PORTATION.  CLOSE TO ND, SAFE, USE OF  ND SEASON & INDIVIDUAL GA  Bookstore's OPEN HOUSE, Friday,  of the lowboy entertainment center  
PLEASE CALL 277·5786.  ALL UTILITIES & KITCHEN.  FOOTBALL TIX WANTED. CHECK  Aug. 30, 3·6 pm. Comer LaSalle &  $2 cover at the door, donations to  
$275/MO. PAUL 232·2794.  JUNIOR PARENT WEEKEND  OUR PRICES BEFORE YOU  Michigan Sts., downtown S.B., 234·  scarecrow are optional. Frosty bev- 
Make money selling great  RUTGERS TICKETS AVAILABLE  SELL.  0003.  erages will be served with proof of  
European sweaters. Call lor inter·  CALL 272·7233.  674·7645.  ownership of gun mechanism.  
view. 237-0866  

·---~------------~-~--------~ ------­
Thursday, August 29, 1996 The Observer • SPORTS page 11 
May 
continued from page 16 
ing positions is a very difficult thing to do, but she is doing a groat job," Brown commentod. 
Leo will probably get the start at setter whon the Irish open the season with the Shamrock Classic against Central Florida this Friday at the JACC. 
Lee expressed her thoughts on being moved to setter," At first I was shocked because I have never played their before. But I'm really excited it is a great challenge." 
Earlier in her career Lee was moved from middle blocker to outside hitter which turned into a t11rrilic success. So, the Irish hope Lee will be able to make this second transition just as well. 
"It will take a while for Jaime to get the different timings down for the hitters," Brown voiced. 
To compensate, the ractices have taken on a different tone as they have began team play early and often, and strides are being taken. 
"Each day I fell I am making progress so I'm not getting frustrated," Lee explained. "I realize that this move is the best thing for the team right now." 
Although the injury is a set­back, May and her teammates remain upbeat and positive. May will continue to be an inte­gral part of the team despite her injury. 
"I'll try my best to help the team by staying in shape and encouraging and supporting them as much as I can," May said. 
Coach Brown seems pleased with how the rest of the team has responded to the situation. 
"I think our team chemistry is good and everyone realizes that the injury requires everyone else to step up, and we still have a high level of confi­dence." 
Lee concurred, "This injury has forced the team to pull together. My teammates have been very accepting of me play­ing setter and they are very supportive and they keep encouraging me." 
So the women's volleyball team seems to be handling this first challenge. This weekend they will host three more chal­lenges in the form of Central FLorida, Toledo, and a very good squad from South Carolina. The matches will be played at 7:00 on Friday and at 
1:00 and 7:00 on Saturday, re­spectively. 


Train 
continued from page 16 
ing "chicken" with the oncoming train. Smith said the player appeared to try to avoid the colli­sion at the last minute. Rosenthal was not injured in the accident, and has been credited with saving Wagner's life. Rosenthal has declined to comment on the evening's festivities. 
Police officials did not request a blood alcohol content test of the 19-year-old from the hospital. Wagner reportedly could not recall if he had been drinking prior to the accident. 
"When you have a traumatic experience like that, nobody can really remember accurately what happened," Holtz related to BGI. "You get a million different stories." 
The basic story is that offensive line coach Joe Moore's player seemingly took on a train ... and lost. 

ACTIVITIES NIGHT 1996 
TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 3RD 7:00PM-9:00PM JOYCE CENTER (GATE 3) 
The following groups are registered to participate in Activities Night. If your club or organization is not listed, and you would like to participate, please stop by the Student Activities Office, 315 Lafortune, and have your club or organization placed on the waiting list. For more information, call1·7308. 
~lrlcan American Sludenl Alliance jAirlun Sludenls' Association jAIDS Mlnlslrles/AIDS Asslsl jAIDS Awareneu 
jAikldo Club · · ''" jAipha Epsilon Dalla !American Cancer Society ~merlcan lnsl. ol Aero. and Allro. !American lnsl. ol Archllecl. Sludenls !American lnsl. ol Chemical Eng. !American Soclely ol Civil Eng. ~merlcan Soclaly of Mach. Eng. ~mnnty lnlernallonal ~rab American Club ~rnold Air Society ~rts & Lellera Business Society ~SHRAE ~ian American Association jAiian lnlernallonal Society "agplpa Band .allel Folklorlco Azul YDro Ballroom Dance Club laapllsl Sludenl Union ~Ill Buddies Big Brolheii/Big Slalera Biology Club Bucca Club Bowling Club ampus Alliance lor Rape Ellmlnallon ampus Mlnialry ampua Fellowship APP Honor Society ASH ~;alhollc League ~;annaugh Hall Player~ Cenlar lor Social Concerns (CSC) enlar lor lhe Homelesa enler lor 8nlc learning Skills hapln Str./81. Joseph's Heallhcare halhollc Charities ~;hlara Home Inc. ~;hlldren at Mary r.horale ~;lrcla Klnlarnational ~;Ins or 1998 ~;llmblng Club ~;allege Republicans Collage Democrals Colleglale Choir 
Compular Club Coro Primavera De Nuaslra SaOora Council lor Fun and learning Council on Inter. Business Dav. Caunlryslde Place Nurainu Home Crlckel Club CSC • Posl Graduate Servlce.Opportunlly CSC ·Social Concerns Seminara CSC • Social Concerns Seminars CSC • Summer Service Projacls CSC • Urban Plunge Cycling Club Dome Enlrepranaur Club Equeslrlan Club 
F.t.R.E. Home Farley Hall Playara Fellowship ol Christian Athlales Feminists lor lila Filipino American Sludent Drg. Firat Aid Services Team Flipside Folk Choir Foodshare Girl Scouts of Singing Sands Goodwllllnduslries Greek American Anoclalion Gymnntics Club Habital lor Humanity Handball Choir Hansel Head Slart Hawaii Club Heallhy Babies Hispanic Business Sludent Assoc. Homeless Sheller Children's Group Hospice Chapler Hospilallty Prog. HUGS Humor Arllsl IEEE India Alsoclalion tnternalional Studenl Drg. tnveslment Club Irish Accent Irish Ouldoora llalian Club Japan Club Judo Club Juggler Magazine 
Junior Achievement Club 
Knlghls ol the lmmaculala 
Korean Club 
La Allanza 
La Caaa diAmlslad lambda Alpha Society La Cen:le Francais League ol Black Business Sludents lllhuanlan Awareness Club Lilurglcal Choir Logan Center (Council lor lhe Retanled) Madmacs Managemenl Club Mananllal Markallng Club Martial Arts lnslllule Malh Club Memorial Hospllal Medical Explorers Mental Heallh Assoc. ol St. Joe County Men's Club Volleyball Mexican American Eng. & Sclantisls Minority Pre-Medical Society MIS Mock Trail Association Model United Nations Ms. Wizard Day Program Taam Mullicullural Execulive Council Muslim Students' Assoclalion NAACP NASCCU Nallonal Youth Sporla Program Native American Sludenl Assoc. Neighborhood Study Help Program Northeast Neighborhood Association Nuestra Voz Observer Omicron Della Epsilon Pan·Airlcan Cultural Center Parkvlew Juvenile Center Physical Therapy Club PhYilcs Club Porn Porn Squad Potawaloml Zoo 
Pre-Dental Society 
Pre-Law Society 
Pra·Prolesslonal Society 
Pra·Vet Club 
Psychology Club 
Rec Sports Recylln' Irish 
Rlghllo Lila 
Rowing Club 
SADD 
Sailing Club 
Salon ol Friendship 
Scholasllc Magazine 
Sex DHense Services 
Shamrox (Alumni-Senior Club) 
Shenanigans 
Silver Wings 
Ski Team 
Social Justice Forum 
Society ol Aulomolive Eng. 
Society of Prof. Journallsls 
Society or Women Eng. 
Soulh Bend Communlly Schools Adull Ed. 
Spanish Club 
Studenl Advocales lor Inclusive Ministry 
Sludent Alumni Relations Group 
(S.A.R.G.) Student Government Studeni Playera 
Student Tutorial Ed. Program 
Studenl Union Board 
Studenlslor Govarnmenlal Action 
Sludents lor Rasponslbla Business 
Super Sibs 
Synchronized Swimming Club 
TaeKwonDo 
Terra Club 
Toulmasleralnternalional Ulllmale Club Unlled Heailh Service Unlles Slates Air Force R.D.T.C. Vietnamese Sludent Association 
Voices ol Faith Gospel Ensemble 
Water Polo Club 
Wind Ensemble Womens Lilurglcal Choir Womens Care Cenler Womens Resource Cenler World of TaeKwonDo Federallon World Hunger Coatilion Wraslllng Club WSDN·FM WVFI·AM 

Last Chancel 
Fulbr~ah~ Compe~~~~on 1oo7-08 
Attention current Seniors!!l!l 
If you are interested in graduate study and research abroad, don't miss the informa­tional meeting 
Thursday, August 29 
7:00pm 
126 DeBartolo with Professor Alain Toumayan, Advisor 
limanary action were also 
unsuccesful, as Barnes was out



Gottlieb 
of the office for the day. continued from page 16 If charges are pressed, the 
accusations would constitute a 
school," Thomas said. "I Class D felony. 
haven't been called yet." Notre Dame men's baskeball 
Efforts to reach the office of coach John MacLleod declined 
Prosecuting Attorney Michael to comment as well on the 
Barnes to determine if any pre-matter. 

Bozeman resigns 
Associated Press 
California basketball coach Todd Bozeman is resigning af­ter a Wednesday meeting with athletic director John Kasser and other university officials, the San Francisco Examiner reported. 
The university scheduled a 3 
p.m. PDT news conference. 
The newspaper, quoting sources close to the athletic de­partment that it did not name, said Bozeman, 32, was forced out after 3 1/2 years in the wake of a series of NCAA in­vestigations and a pending civil action. 
On Aug. 14, an Alameda County Superior Court judge is­sued a temporary restraining order against him after a for­mer student said he had threatened her and harassed her sexually. Also cited was Bozeman's involvement in a "gift club" that might be con­sidered a pyramid scheme, the Examiner said. 
A hearing was scheduled for Friday on Suzanne M. Wilson's allegations. 
Bozeman's basketball pro­gram is currently under NCAA investigation for major rules violations and faces penalties that could be announced as early as next month. 
California was twice investi­gated last year and forward Tremaine Fowlkes was sus­pended for 14 games. The pro­gram also received a minor sanction in its recruitment of Shareef Abdur-Rahim. 
Please Recycle The Observer 

Nemro1'king 


Web Administration User Training 
Manage a staffof 5 dedicated Systems Assi.~tants 
~ 
Quark Photoshop Freehand Illustrator Streamline FilcMakcr Pro MSWord Excel 


The Systems Manager is responsible for one of the largest student run networks on campus. With over 25 Macintoshes, 5 printers, 6 modems, and 4 servers, The Observer offers one ofthe best learning opportunities on campus for Computer Science majors. Ifyou are interested, please submit a one page letter ofintent describing your experience to Sean Gallavan at The Observer, 314 LaFortune Student Center, by Monday, September 2. Freshmen encouraged to apply. 
..l 
I ~ I 
I 
I 
• I 
page 12 
The Observer • SPORTS 
-... 
Injury plagued Packers must face demons to make. playoffs 
By ARNIE STAPLETON first conference title game (shoulder). Because Beebe will Associated Press since 1967. So what? Their return kicks and Howard will season again died in Dallas. return punts, the Packers had 
Coach Mike Holmgren Holmgren told his team to to cut split end Anthony wouldn't mind his Green Bay stern the arrogance, at least Morgan, a key contributor to Packers playing a little more publicly. He is just as confident last year's 13-6 campaign. like the world champion Dallas there's enough depth and abil­Expect plenty of double tight Cowboys. ity for Green Bay to take that end alignments with Pro 
He absolutely detests his next step, especially if the Bowler Mark Chmura and players talking like them, so 49ers or Cowboys slip. Keith Jackson. The club had Holmgren has put a clamp on But sometimes the Packers feared both might bolt in the all the brash pronouncements just can't restrain their enthu­offseason. about the Packers being the siasm. Favre passed for 4,413 yards best in the NFL -at least until "If Brett plays the way he did and 38 touchdowns in his first they can prove it. last year and we improve our season after the loss of star re­
"You're not going to hear any defense, we can win it all," de­ceiver Sterling Sharpe, whose Super Bowl talk from the play­fensive end Reggie White said. retirement caused concern the ers on this team anymore," "But Dallas is still the team to Packers would slip. But Brooks said Holmgren, whose team beat. Right now we need to caught 102 passes and Chmura lost to Dallas in the NFC cham­stop talking about the Super and running back Edgar pionship in January. Bowl, because we haven't been Bennett combined for 115 
Holmgren cringed when MVP there yet." more. quarterback Brett Favre, fresh "At least our goals are high," Then there's the tough ofT a 46-day stay in a drug re­Favre said. schedule. The Packers have habilitation center for an So are several obstacles. two three-game road trips, addiction to painkillers, arrived Start with a thin offensive something no NFL team has at training camp and declared. line, where left guard Aaron had to endure this decade. The "This year, it's Super Bowl or Taylor is corning off his second second one is a killer: consecu­bust." major knee surgery in two tive games at Kansas City, 
He winced when safety LeRoy years, and 12-year veteran left Dallas and St. Louis in Butler exclaimed, "We're the tackle Ken Ruettgers will miss November. team to beat now." at least six weeks and possibly Because the Packers won the 
Sure, the Super Bowl is the the season with a degenerative NFC Central last year -for the next logical step for a team left knee. first time since 1972 -they that has gone from four victo­Rookie John Michels and will face fellow division win­
ries in 1991, the year before Gary Brown will try to protect ners Dallas and San Francisco Holmgren arrived, to 13 Favre's blind side. in the NFC, and play Kansas {including playoffs) last year. The receiving corps, so deep City, which finished 13-3 last 
But he didn't think he had to when camp opened, is down to year. remind his boastful stars about four healthy players: Robert That means getting hornefield losing six straight times at Brooks at flanker and second­advantage in the playoffs will Irving, Texas. year pro Antonio Freeman at be doubly difficult. 
Didn't they recall three con­split end, with Don Beebe (an Favre has never lost in cold secutive seasons crashing at NFL has-been?) and Desmond weather; the Packers have Texas Stadium with playoff Howard (an NFL never-was) never lost a playoff game at thurnpings by the more tal­backing them up. Larnbeau Field. So they'd love ented Cowboys? Out with injuries are Terry to ensure that the road to the 
They upset the San Francisco Mickens (ankle) and rookie next Lombardi Trophy winds 49ers last year to reach their sensation Derrick Mayes its way right up Lombardi Ave. 

Labor Day Bike and Blade Sale 
,0 
Save now through labor day on selected bikes and blades 
Before you start beating your brains to the point of resembling an egg souffle, get out this week and have some fun! Outpost sports has two great ways to have fun and save money at the same time. Save on all Trek, Gary Fisher, Klein, and Schwinn bikes in stock at the Outpost. In addition, this week the Outpost is featuring sale prices on selected RollerBlade brand inline skates! The weather is great and the prices are hot at Outpost sports, so head down Edison Road to Grape and make a right turn towards the Outpost Center! We've got the fun and the best prices waiting for you! 
Open Labor Day! 
Schwinn Clear Creek 
RollerBlade Macroblade 
Regularly $315 Regularly $209 Sale Price $256 Sale Price $169 
3602 N. Grape Rd. Mishawaka, In 259-1000 



~~--~---------.----------------------------------------------------------------~ -­


The Observer 
is now hiring for the following position: 
Illustrator 
If you are interested in an exciting and exotic job, experience drawing for The Observer. Please contact Ed Leader at 634-4428, or stop up at The Observer . 
•
•
• : ti/t._\ .;..'<:·
• w,.,.;~ "\.::~:._~: =~{,:~·
.::_______,_ 
•
• 
• 

-
-I 
1 
I 
I
R--~~ 
Thursday, August 29, 1996 The Observer • SPORTS 
~· ,..~,.,.. ,, }li" ~s
• • . Sr.'-'' ~~: ; :)' ~. : '.._:t-" 
BIATHLON -HecSports will be sponsoring a Biathlon on Saturday, August 31, at 10:30 
a.m. The Biathlon will consist of a 1/2 mile swim plus a two mile run. The event takes place at St. Joe Beach and you must register in advance at the HecSports office. There will be individual or team competition in both varsity and non-varsity divisions. There is no charge for this event. For more info call llecSports at 1-6100. 
SCUBA COUHSE -The infor­mation meeting for this course will be Sunday, September 1, at 1:00 p.m. in Hockne llm 218. There will be seven classroom and pool sessions beginning September 8. Completion of course results in YMCA Lifetime Certification. For more info call RecSports at 1­fi100. 
SHOIUN-RYU KARATE ­Students are instructed accord­ing to traditional Okinawan techniques. Semester long course that meets in Rockne 219 T/TH 6:00-7:30 starting Thursday. September 12. You must register in advance at HecSports and the fee is $18.00. A demonstration will be held on Tuesday,September 10, at 6:00 in Hockne Hm 219. Call llecSports at 1-6100 for more information. 
WOMEN'S SAFETY AND SELF-I>EFENSE • This course exposes women to basic self­defense techniques as used in real-life crisis situations. Class meets for ten sessions on M/W from 6:30-7:45 in Rockne Rm 
219. The instructor for this course is Fran McCann who is a faculty member in the Physical education department. Class begins on Monday, September 9, and is open to students and staff. Class size is limited and there is a fee of $12.00. For more info call RecSports at 1-6100. 
BALLET • Students will be instructed according to their level. Semester long course that meets on Sundays from 2:15-3:30 and Thursdays from 6:45-8:15 in Rockne Rm. 301. An Informational meeting will be held Sunday, September 8, at 2:15 in llockne Rm. 301. The fee for the class is $35.00 and you must register in ad­vance at HecSports. Sign-ups begin on Monday, September 9. Call llecSports at 1-6100 for more info. 
HORSEBACK RII>ING LESSONS -The information meeting for this course will be Thursday, September 12. 6:00 
p.m. in the Rolfs Aquatic Facility classroom. The course consists of five lessons that will take place on Thursday from 4:00-5:00. Students will be in­structed according to English Style and all levels are wel­come. For more info. call RecSports at 631-6100. Classes begin on Thursday. September 19, and space is limited. 
ATHLETIC COMMISSIONERS All Hall Athletic Commissioners need to contact the UecSports office. We need names, phone numbers, and addresses. Please call us at 631-5100. 
LACROSSE • All those inter­ested in men's varsity lacrosse should attend a meeting at 
4:00 p.m. on Friday. August 30 in the Loftus Auditorium. 
WOMEN'S LACROSSE • All th,ose interested in women's varsity lacrosse should attend tryouts on Sunday. September 1 at 4:00 p.m. in the Loftus Auditorium. Bring schedules, and call1-4719 for more infor­mation. 
page 13 

• NFL 

Rice signs contract through next century 
By DENNIS GEORGATOS 
Associated Press 
Jerry Rice, the NFL's career leader in touchdowns, recep­tions and receiving yardage, now has security, peace of mind and a heftier contract to go with the lofty numbers he's put up on the field. 
The seven-year pact, worth $32 million, runs through 2002 and replaces a contract due to expire following the 1997 sea­son. The deal included a $4 million signing bonus. 
Rice said coming to terms on the new deal frees him to con­centrate on football. 
"I don't have to worry about my contract any more. That's behind me," Rice said during a news conference. "This is the position I wanted to be in a long time ago. Now it's just football." 
Asked how much longer he plans to play. Uice said, "My goal is to finish this contract." 
Club president Carmen Policy said the contract was designed to keep Rice in a 49ers uniform for the rest of his career. San Francisco has seen such superstars as Joe Montana and Honnie Lott fin­ish their careers elsewhere and Policy said the organiza­tion didn't want to see that happen with Rice. 
"I made it perfectly clear to Jerry and Jim Steiner (Rice's agent) that we did not want to even run the risk of having Jerry even consider the possi­bility of the free agent mar­ket," Policy said. "Whatever happened in the past, whatev­er the circumstances may have been, however difficult the sit­uation may have developed, we weren't going to allow that to happen with Jerry." 
Hice said he wanted the same thing. 
"I can't see myself going anywhere else and putting on a different uniform, and trying to start all over again," he said. 
Steiner said the new deal makes Rice one of the top 10­12 paid players in the league. 
The 49ers cleared room un­der the salary cap by rework­ing the contracts of linebacker Lee Woodall and cornerback Marquez Pope. 
Meanwhile, the 49ers stepped up efforts to extend the contract of two-time Pro Bowl free safety Merton Hanks, scheduled to be paid $700,000 this season. Hanks' agent, Leigh Steinberg, met with Policy for four hours ear­lier Wednesday. Policy described the discussions as positive but no agreement was imminent. 
The organization began talk· ing to Rice's agent about a new deal following last season. 
Talks continued through the offseason and then quieted while Hice attended to his ail­ing wife. Jackie, who nearly died of complications following the birth of the couple's third child, Jada, in February. 
'lFYOU )EE SPORTS HAPPEN I NG,CALL THE OBSERVER AT 1-4543 
page 14 The Observer • SPORTS 
• fOOTBALL 
Special teams rotation has potential for success 




INDIANAUNIVERSITY 
SOUTH BEND 
CONTU«<TNGEDUCATION 
More than 300 classes in professional and personal development 
• Computers • Technology • Travel Agent Training • • Business Management • Small Business • Supervision • • Communication • Languages and Culture • Allied Health • • Certified Financial Planner • CEBS • Human Resources • • Accounting • Customer Service • Paralegal Studies • • Purchasing Management • Small Manufacturing • • Production/Inventory Management • Home and Garden 
• Quality Management • Safety and Health • • Real Estate • Insurance • Montessori Education •
... 
• Early Childhood • Youth Programs • Personal Finance • College Proficiency • LSAT, GRE, GMAT Reviews • 
-
• Healing and Wellness • Personal Enrichment • Recreation • 
Classes begin throughout the fall Call for your free catalog 237-4261 
nod from coach Holtz," Cengia said. "It's between me and Jimmy right now." 
Cengia is referring to fresh­man Jim Sanson, who will probably play the backup role this fall. 
Sophomore kicker Kevin Kopka, who started most of last season, will miss action be­cause he has recently under­gone knee surgery. 
"Kevin Kopka has had some­what of a knee problem. The 
'·people don't realize 
how much the temperature can affect your game. The cold 
TheObserver/Mike Bruma 

weather was a big fac­
The Irish are hoping sophomore punter, Hunter Smith, will improve on tor with my inconsis­his consistency from a year ago. As a freshman, he averaged 36.4 
yards and showed good promise. 
tency last year.' 

needs to come out of the American track sprinter Allen Hunter Smith game," Smith stated. Rossum. His tremendous speed Although playing free safety is precisely the reason Holtz and punting are seemingly un­decided to make Rossum the 
way he was kicking, it was ob­related, Smith believes the ex­top kick returner.
vious his knee was affecting tra playing time on defense will "I think Allen (Rossum) is in ahim. It was best, in fairness to improve his consistency as a position where he can handlehim, to have surgery," Holtz punter. that satisfactorily now," Holtzcommented. 
"Playing other positions dur­said.
Punting duties this season ing the game will keep me The top Irish punt returner
will be handled this season by 
warm and keep me loose. will be sophomore Autry
Mr. Versatility, a.k.a. Hunter People don't realize how much Denson. Holtz hopes Denson'sSmith. Since last season, the the temperature can affect your pass catching ability and greatIrish coaching staff has prac­game. The cold weather was a moves in the open field willticed Smith at punter, quarter­big factor with my inconsis­make him a natural at return­back, receiver, and free safety. 
tency last year." ing punts. 
In addition to punting, Smith But like a good quarterback Emmett Mosley is expected to expects to receive playing time who gives credit to his offensive be the backup return man for at free safety as this season line, a good punter gives credit kickoffs and punts. 
progresses. 

to his punt coverage unit. Despite the obvious talent on"I feel like I can play free "I'm really happy with the special teams, Holtz's outlook is 
safety later in the season. 
protection I've gotten. And cautious.
Jarvis Edison is really a great you're only as good as the pro­"We may not have the speedplayer, so I don't plan on start­tection you're getting. to break the big one," Holtzing. But I hope to learn from Returning kickoffs for the said. "But I think we'll be pro­him and help him out when he Irish this season will be All-ductive." 
. 








Welcome Weekend '96 
Thursday, 
Friday, 
Saturday, 
August 30 
August 31

August 29 
*Reggae *Welcome *Outdoor 

Fest Back Picnic Movies 
featuring "Uraeus" Food-Dance-Prizes!! on North Quad Free photo buttons
Free T,shirt tie -8:30pm "The Lion 
and key chains 
dye,and make beaded King" necklaces and arm Field House Mall 
-1O:OOpm "Seven"

chains 4,8pm Field House Mall *Comedy Free popcorn and soda 
6,9PM Night 
at Washington Hall
*"Dead Man 
*uDeadMan

Featuring: GeraldWalking" "Green Eyes" Kelly and Walking"].B. Smoove 
Cushing Auditorium, Cushing Auditorium 
I0:30PM 8pm $3.00/Student, 
Spm and 10:30 pm 

$5.00/non-students
$2.00 Admission $2.00 
*Acoustic *"Dead Man 

Cafe Walking" 
at the Huddle Cushing Auditorium 8pm and 1 0:30pm 
9PM , 12:30AM 
$2:00 


Sponsored By: Multicultural Student Affairs -Student Activities -Student Union Board 
By TODD FITZPATRICK 
Sports Writer 
Lou Holtz has always empha­sized the importance of his spe­cial teams unit. After all, championships are won and lost by last-second field goal attempts, dramatic kick returns and punts that back the opposi­tion deep into their own terri­tory. So Holtz has tinkered with the special teams rotation to find the best possible combi­nation for the upcoming sea­son. 
Leading the competition for starting kicker is junior Scott Cengia. 
"Scott (Cengia) is kicking bet­ter than he has ever kicked," Holtz said. 
Cengia believes he has im­proved his consistency as well as his strength during the sum­mer. Despite his im­provements, however, he still awaits the official word that he'll be the starter for the opening game against Vanderbilt. 
''I'm just hoping to get the 
r-------------------------------------------------------------------------~-------------------------------~----, 
Thursday, August 29, 1996 
MIXED MEDIA 
The Observer· TODAY page 15 
JACK OHMAN 

MOTHER GOOSE AND GRIMM 

PER.SON MAOE AN 

~~~ 
0 
u

~ 
.:

... 
IF I USE THE UNTAPPED
..0 
..@) 
~

POWER OF MY 5fU.1N, 
.. 
~ 
..... 

"' 
11-\ER.t'S A SOLUTION?
a.. 
.

... 
... 
., 

u
.. 0 
~
) 
~ 
·;;

e 
:::>

,;, 
"' 
:l:

II\ 
0 

~ 
.!1 
.ll:. 

") 
i 

59 Home oilhe biblical c1ty Epl1esus 
so Fltghtless b1rd 61 Noted Swtss 1tem 64 No-good 
end1ng 65 Yup1k speaker 66 Case for a vet 67 Pres1dent1al 
monogram 68 Salt 69 Assoc1ate 
Suff1x 
DOWN 
1 Afro-Brazilran dance 2 Willow SWIICh 3 Range of the Rock1es 4 Straw hats 5 Word for a 
storm 6 Choose 7 Ep1thel of 
NO, l'JII\ 5AYINC,. 1"\Y AM.A. 'Z..ING BRMN F'ILTER£0 OUT YOUR BORING STORY 50 l COULD 
EN'JOY M.Y WALK. 

.r.J 
~ 

.. 

YOUR HOROSCOPE JEANE DIXON 
----------------~---------, 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY! IN THE 
NEXT YEAR OF YOUR LIFE: 
Partnerships of all types should 
thrive. An opporllrnity to start a 
small business comes your way in 
late fall. Get everything in writing 
even if dealing with relatives. A 
December vacation will be fun only 
if it docs not strain your finances. 
Choosing a simpler lifestyle early in 
1997 will lead to new rapport with 
loved ones. An original idea captures 
the allentinn of prominent people~ 
There are sure to he strings allached 
to their offer of financial backing. 
CELEHRITIES BOHN ON 
THIS DAY: Oliver Wendell Holmes, 
Olympic jumper Bob Beamon, di­
rector Sir Richard Allenborough, 
movie star Ingrid Bergman. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Your friends' affiliations help you move closer to achieving a special goal. Talk things out over lunch. You and your partner could reap a finan­cial bonanza if you invest wisely. 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): A difficult relationship puts you on edge. How you handle things will determine its longevity. Trust ynm intuition. The ideal mate will share your intellectual interests. 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): The best way to lose unwanted pounds is to change your eating habits. When talking to children about their home­work, discuss your own work duties. A relative needs your assistance with household chores. Cooperate. 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): Work towards greater financial security. A timely investment will produce handsome profits. A current relationship may nnt be what you really want. Refuse to sellle. 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Exercise willpower; wait for someone to come to you 1 When dealing with financial mailers, consult exrerts 
• OF INTEREST 
only. Putting too much faith in 
friends' advice W<mld be a mistake. 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): A 
"couldn't care less" altitude prevails 
at work. Others' complacency will 
be hard to overcome. Concentmtc on 
assignments you can complete alone. 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Dra­
matic changes are likely in several 
friendships. Generating new profits 
is the top priority at work. Your 
income will rise along with your 
employer's. 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21 ): Establishing better rarport with a teen-ager will work wonders. Spend more time with a sibling. A pel pro­ject gets the green lighl from higher­ups. Be willing to take a chance on a new love. 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21 ): Good luck favors you in u legal or health muller. Your subconscious will he working overtime ExlrllCI more joy from your relationships. Someone influential admires your vitality and enthusiasm. 
CAPRICORN <Dec. 22-Jan. 
19): An investment's return is l>el!er 
than expected. Financial concerns 
fudc. Do something Sfk!l'ial for ymu 
children or parents. You huve much more influence on your loved ones than you think. 

AQUARIUS (Jun. 20-Feb. IH): Your career surges ahead. Work hard and ol>ey the rules. Tried-and­true friends make the hest confi­dants. Discuss your dream~ and hopes without embarrassment. Fum­ily members draw closer together when an emergency urises. 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Renovating your home will make it more comfortable and easier to maintain. Seek help with complicat· ed jobs. A new relationship will not work out unless memories of a past love fude. Look to the future. 
• La Alianza will have a meeting at 9:00 pm in the Notre Dame Room on the second floor of LaFortune Student Center. For more informa­tion, call Marisa Limon at 634-4205 
•MENU 

North South 
Tomato Soup Alpine Corn Chowder 
Fried Cod and Clams Sweet and Sour Pork Garden Quiche Baked Cajun Cod Stuffed Shells Chinese Noodles 
Chicken Acapulco 

Saint Mary's 
London Broil Moroccan Couscous Mediterranean Cod 



Wanted: Reporters, 

.. 
• 
maybe 
s Mans 11 'Kihd ol's1te 14 About 30% of 
the earth 15 Anybody ho-o-ome?' 16Car m p g raters 17 Hee Haw· comedwnne 19 Cave-dwelling f1sh 20 Second­brightest stars 21 Stormed 
2:1 What Jesus spoke 26 Htgh school 
class. tnformally 27 Broad t1es JO Arch1tect Jones 
(accept 
congratula 
hans.).. 
37 Israeli desert JB Health care 
lobby Abbr J9 Chtcken 41 Otto I s realm 
Abbr 42 London crtcket ground 44 Vega's 
constellation 4SW W II gun 46 R1s1ble 47 Anc1ent 
Mex1can 49 Farm fteld, maybe 51 Spec1ous debater 55 Amber w1nes 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
.. SPORTS 
.. 
I t' 
I 
I 
Thursday, August 29, 1996 
Reasons for Gottlieb's 

departure remain unclear 
were unsuccessful. · Spiece, the retail store on 
Grape Road where Gottlieb re­
portedly used two of the credit 
cards, declined to give any 
information regarding the 
alleged incident, as store man­
ager Lisa Horvath could nei­
ther confirm or deny that 
Gottlieb is the subject of an 
investigation. 

"Any case involving credit card fraud or any fraud, we have to keep confidential," Horvath said late last evening. 
Notre Dame Security and the Office of Student Affairs took similar stances of silence. 
Since Gottlieb is no longer a student at the University, if any action is to be taken by the 
three students, it must done through the criminal justice system. 
"The last time I was asked (by Campus Security over the summer) if I wanted to press charges, I told them I did," Joe Hand, one the three alleged victims, said. 
"I don't know how to do that but I haven't heard back from them them." 
Both Scott Thomas and Pat Johnson also have indicated that they are going forth with legal action. 
"They (Security) called me over the summer and I was told I have sign papers to press charges once I got back to 

see GOTTLIEB/ page II 


Wounded warriors 

By TIM SHERMAN 
Sports Editor 

Despite recent allegations of credit card fraud against ex­Notre Dame point guard Doug Gottlieb, it is still unclear at this point whether those alle­gations were the determining factor in his departure from the University over the sum­mer. 
Interviews late Tuesday evening with three Dillon Hall sophomores revealed that Gottlieb has been accused of unlawfully purchasing mer­chandise with stolen credit cards. 
However, efforts to deter­mine the status of the situation 
"Quarterback" for the Irish sidelined as they prepare for season opener 
By JOE CAVATO Sports Writer 

For the Notre Dame women's volleyball team, the early stretch of its schedule always presents challenges. These challenges usually come in the form of top notch programs such as Stanford, Penn State, and Washington State. 
However, this August the Irish will have to overcome an unscheduled challenge of replacing a key ingredient for their success. A dislocated shoulder has sidelined junior setter Carey May for three to five weeks, which includes about ten matches and three tournaments. 
Last season May earned All-District honors as well as being named to second team All-Big East. As a sophomore, May had 1536 of the team's 17 59 assists, so her absence certainly will be felt. 
Head coach Debbie Brown explained the importance of the setter. "As a setter she touch­es the ball more than anyone. It is a skill posi­tion, even though it is not a position with a lot of glory. If the setter does not play well the team will probably not play well. A setter needs to have a lot of poise, confidence, and experience." 
Brown continued, "Coming into the season we felt we had good depth everywhere except at setter which is of course where we get an injury. Now we have to move someone from outside hit­ter so our depth there is weakened." 
So the Irish now lack experience at setter, which is the quarterback of the hard court. Junior Jaime Lee and freshman Lauren Stettin will fill the void in May's absence while senior Kristina Ervin will play outside hitter. Neither Lee nor Stettin have Division I experience at running the team from the setter slot. · 
"Lauren is not a trained setter. Coming into a very competitive Division I program and chang­
see MAY/ page I1 
tackle John Wagner will likely miss most of the season. The 6­7 320 pound sopho­more was hurt due to injuries sustained while allegedly play­ing "chicken" with a train. 
Left: Due to setter Carey May's dislocat­ed shoulder, junior Jaime Lee {pictured) will move from out­side hitter to fill the void. This will be Lee's third position in as many years. 


Wagner will 
recover from 


major train crash injuries 
By DAVE TREACY Associate Sports Editor 
Parents usually warn their children about the dangers of not looking both ways when crossing the train tracks. Apparently, some people do not take these warnings seriously. 
Irish offensive lineman John Wagner was struck by a train at the Grand Trunk Western Railroad crossing in South Bend at 2:30 a.m. on July 24th. He was accompanied by fellow sopho­more lineman Mike Rosenthal. Wagner's war wounds included a bro­ken right wrist requiring surgery, three broken ribs, two mid spine fractures, and a right ankle injury. Needless to say, Wagner will not be on a football field anytime soon. 
"John Wagner probably won't be able to play this year, but (the doctors) antici­pate (that) he'll be fine," Irish coach Lou Holtz confirmed to Blue and Gold Illustrated. 
Wagner denied his involvement with the football program when contacted by the South Bend Tribune for comment. However, the University acknowledged that the John Wagner hit by the train was indeed the Irish third string of­fensive lineman. 
Wagner also denies any memory of the accident. 
"To tell you the truth, I don't even know what happened," Wagner told the South Bend Tribune. "I don't remember anything about it." 
According to William Smith, the train's engineer, Wagner may have been play­
seeTRAIN/ page I1 

r-

Football 
• High hopes for Special Teams roster 
at Vanderbilt, September 5 

Volleyball 
see page I4

vs. Central Florida 
Women's Soccer 

August 31 
at Providence, August 31 

• Rice renews contract 
SMC Soccer 
Men's Soccer 

at Ohio Wesleyan, August 31 
see page I3 
at Providence, August 31 

• Packers plagued with injurues 
see page 12 

-___ j 



