

Tuesday, August 27, 1996 • Vol. XXX No.2 THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
First Wrigley Field, now Notre Dame Stadium... 
NBC telecasts prompt lights at Stadium 
By DEREK BETCHER AssiMant News Eoitor 
Deviating from its original stadium expansion plan, the University announced in late-June that tlw renovated Notre Dame Stadium will now indudt~ permanent lights. 
The t~ause of this change -a University desire to accommodate NBC telecasts -is central to the contrast between administrative advocacy of the move and student cynicism. 
In .Jurw, the University oflicials justified their addition of lights as means to avoid using tempo­rary lighting at late-season home football games. Tlwy ernphasizml that all Notre Dame home foot­ball games will remain day games. 
"One of the benefits of our contract with NBC is the assurance it provides that Notre Dame home football games will not be moved to prime time for broadeast purposes... Late season (day) home games do, however, require lighting to produce a quality telt~vision picture," Father William Btmw:harnp, the University's executive vice presi­dtmt, explained in a .June announcement. 
Underlining NBC's role in the change is their agrnnnumt to pay for the lights. While in the past, tlw rwtwork has paid to bring in large portable lights, its new $700,000 commitment for a "quali­ty television pietun~" is signilieant. 
Changes on tlw University's part to accommo­date a large bank of lights atop the new press box and four smaller dusters on the stadium's four eornnrs arn comparatively small, according to Director of Facilities Engineering Michael Smith. 
see LIGHTS/ page 6 
New dorms win praise 

But some residents still prefer Grace 
By ETf IAN HAYWARD 
A... ~o"-ialt" News Editor 
After Ktwugh and O'Neill halls' first wedend of occu­pancy, many residents feel wry positive ahout their new homes, nspt~eially about the location of tlwir new (~olf <)uad dorms. 
"It almost snnms like a whoiP diffnrnnt university, sincn wn're on the exact opposit1~ sidn of campus (from (; r a I' nl, " said junior Steve McMullen. a K1wugh resident. "It's also nice to be so much closnr to DeBartolo and to COBA." 
Sophomore Mik1~ Wassmer, an O'Neill rnsidnnt, says the new location senms much morn cnntral to campus than that of (;race. 
"Thern always seems to be morn JWOple hanging out on South <)uad than North and Mod Quad, so I like the loca­tion a lot better," said Wassmer. 
But sorn1~ are wary about thn new additions to the south mul of campus. 
"I have a ftwling South Dining Hall will be very crowded (eompared to North) with 500 nnw people eating tlwn~ ... said sophomore David Gacorn of Knough. 
"I like the fact that I'm dos­nr to the Bookstore and the dining hall, but the guys in non: don't snem to like being 
The Observer/Mike Rums 

The social spaces and location of O'Neill (shown above) and Keough halls have earned high marks from many residents. But others prefer the square sections and the views that Grace Hall provided. 

so far from their building," offered junior Tom Daignault. Opinions varied with regard 
to hall structure. 
"I like it (O'Neill) a lot bet­ter than Grace," said junior Mike Niemier. "The doubles are a nice size compared to other dorms, and I like the new furniture and the dorm unity. I wouldn't change any­thing." 
"It (Keough) seems a lot smaller compared to Grace. And Grace had a more 'homey' structure with the way the sections were laid out," said McMullen. 
Keough and O'Neill have only four floors and longer hallways, as opposed to the towers of Flanner and Grace, which have 11 floors and square sections. 
"The long hallways seem to make the new dorms more social, and the new rooms seem a lot more livable with sinks in them. But there are advantages and disadvan­tages," said Wassmer. 
"I liked the section cama­raderie we had in Grace. It's a little tougher to get to know everyone in your section with the long hallways," said Gacom. 
"It seems to me that the new dorms were designed by people who assumed they knew what the students want­ed but didn't really ask the students how they would want them," said Daignault. 
Daignault also said he felt the social space is not located very well, that the wider stairways could present a hazard to students and that 
see DORMS/ page 4 

Ohio school's logo may be just the start 
By HEATHER COCKS Associate News Editor 

Schools across the country with mascots sporting a beard, green dothes, and a shamrock are paying close attention to a recent copyright controversy in which some Ohio residents learned just how much the 


University of Notre Dame val­ed the leprechaun as its logo ues its leprechaun. almost 20 years ago. Besides 
Catholic Central High School, being present on the walls of situated in a predominantly the gymnasium, the symbol Irish community in Springfield, also adorned the center of the Ohio, took pride in its ethnic basketball court. heritage and long ago dubbed Despite the fact that the lep­its sports teams the Fighting rechaun has long been an ofli­Irish. cial trademark of Notre Dame, 
The school carried the con­nection further when it select-
see LOGO/ page 4 

After pleading guilty, Herro resigned from ND 
Observer SraffRepon 

Mark Herro, an associate pro­fessor of electrical engineering, has resigned from the Notre Dame faculty, a University offi­cial con­firmed Monday. 
Dennis Moore, direc­tor of Notre Dame Public Relations, said Herro resigned this summer after he admitted to molesting a 14­year-old boy. 
Herro was sentenced on July 22 to a year-and-a-half in prison after he pleaded guilty to charges of child molesting and sexual misconduct. 

Herro, who is enrolled in ther­apy at a New Orleans treatment center, is scheduled to turn him­self in to the state Department of Correction Dec. 2 to begin serving his sentence. 
He is to continue his treat­ment until then. 
Herro admitted in the molest­ing charge that he fondled and touched the boy while they were at the South Bend Racquet Club in the frrst half of 1995. 
He also said he had engaged in sexual acts with the boy at his home in June 1995. 
Charges that accused Herro of engaging in sexual behavior with the boy at Herro's Notre Dame office were dropped. 

--------~------~---­
page 2 The Observer • INSIDE Tuesday, August 27, 1996 
•INSIDE COlUMN 
Where 
to 
next? 
It was the Fall of 

1993 when "The Shirt"  Meaghan Smith  
proudly stated in white  Viewpoint Editor  
lettering, "The  

Tradition Continues." Now it's the Fall of 
1996 and if tradition continues to contin­
ue, it's a little hard to discern through the 
cloud of commotion on the Notre Dame 
campus. 
Returning students cheered a little cheer as they caught their first unobstructed view of the Golden Dome reflecting the South Bend sun. Many mouthed a silent but nonetheless enthusiastic "yes!" as they cruised on past Notre Dame Avenue and toward a residence off the beaten paths of campus. And still others felt a tear form­ing for "The House That Rockne Built," already dressed for fall in an oversized cement jacket. The rest of campus took some style tips from Mother Nature, selecting a wardrobe of trees instead. 
Cars now roll around the new-and­improved Main Circle counterclockwise, and even Rollerbladers have the chance to change their skating scenery with the new sidewalks stretching across previously uncharted territory. Those sidewalks might be new, but only time and South Bend rain can tell if they can uphold the soggy South Quad tradition of the "lake effect." 
"Save the Males" was a lost cause for the residents of Grace, but those fresh men haven't lost their livelihood -Keough and O'Neill are promising party upshoots right in the backyard of campus, complete with cyber effects. 
Tradition must be more than the securi­ty of sameness. Record numbers of new faces have joined the Notre Dame family, and any upperclassman can tell you that they look younger and younger every time around. 
For those who have grown out of their baby faces and grown into the person whose personal stats actually match those on their licenses, a word of caution. The sporty atmosphere of Coaches has been stricken with a Saturday night fever for dancing, and Jazzman's innovative Tuesday "Hook-up Night" is sure to be worth giving the old college try. And where will tradition be headed once the Alnmni-Senior Club changes its name? 
The beer will still taste the same... 
Off-campus residents, however, may taste a little fear in their beer as the sobering wrath of SUDS is unleashed on Turtle Creek and Campus View. Is CBLD the only thing we have to count on any more? 
So maybe the Girl Scouts had it exactly right when they sang somthing about making new and keeping old -whether it's friends, identities, or excuses to get out there and do it all. Welcome to the Fall of 1996, where tradition is there for the re-making. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer . 
•  TODAY'S STAFF  
News  Production  
Brad Prendergast Derek Betcher Sports Mike Day Graphics Tom Roland  Jackie Moser Tara Grieshop Lab Tech Katie Kroener  

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
Sudanese airliner hijacked en route to Jordan 





the release of any passengers." 
Authorities allowed the plane to refu­el and take off on the four-hour flight to London. 
The plane's pilot said there were sev­eral hijackers on board, police said, although Cyprus civil aviation director Michael Herodotou said he believed there to be only one. It was not clear whether Cyprus authorities had talked to more than one man directly. 
During its stay in Cyprus. the plane was parked away from the terminal building at Larnaca, on the southern edge of the Mediterranean island, and was surrounded by police. It took off for London just before 1 a.m. Tuesday 
The plane left the Sudanese capital of Khartoum about 6:30 p.m. en route to Amman, Jordan, and was hijacked about 25 minutes later, said Mohammad Qassem, an aviation offi­cial in the control tower in Cairo. 
The pilot contacted the Cairo tower, told officials the plane had been hijacked and requested permission to fly through Egyptian airspace to Rome. 
Chemical castration bill approved 
SACRAMENTO 

Child molesters could be given drugs to stifle their sex drives and repeat offenders would automatically face "chemical castration" under a bill Gov. Pete Wilson has vowed to sign into law. "Hopefully this treatment will help in the difficult struggle to control the deviant behav­ior of those who stalk our young," Wilson told The New York Times on Monday. Legislation passed by the state Senate last week would allow courts to make first-time ~hild molesters take hormone-suppressing drugs when paroled from prison. The drug treatment would be mandatory for a second offense. The bill does not actual­ly require emasculation, though a molester could choose physical castration instead of the drug treatment intend­ed to lower testosterone levels. "This is a treatment that in Europe has produced a dramatic drop in recidivism," :;tate Sen. Ross Johnson said. The issue has raised med­ical ethics questions, with legal experts predicting court challenges should the bill become law. "There are prob­lems regarding the right to privacy, the right to procre­ate, the right to exercise control over one's body," said Valerie Small Navarro, a lobbyist with the California branch of the American Civil Liberties Union. Other states have tried to toughen their child molestation laws, but only in California has such legislation advanced so far, the Times reported. 
Media reveal Democratic bias 
CHICAGO "We have an emotional night ahead in Chicago 
spacecraft was puzzling engineers Monday, 10 days tonight," NBC News anchorman Tom Brokaw said at the of beginning of his broadcast of the opening night of the 
Democratic National Convention. The night's gripping ­albeit scripted -TV moments didn't disappoint. First there was the video tribute to the late Commerce Secretary Ron Brown. Then came gripping wheelchair appearances by Reagan Administration Press Secretary James Brady and actor Christopher Reeve. But, for a TV media that expressed annoyance at the choreographed flavor of the Republican convention earlier this month, hard analysis of the pre-planned emotion seemed absent. "They're going to put on real people who talk about the real problems in today's society. Who better than the Bradys?" said ABC News correspondent Sam Donaldson. 
COLD WARM STATIONARY c 1996 AccuWeather, Inc. Pressure ~ ~ ,.-1\H L EE ISS! r:nl 0 ~ 8 ¥ ~ c.__:. 
HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS Fl.URRI£5 SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY VIa Assoc/alad Press 
Atlanta 89 70 Dallas 90 71 Minneapolis 84 59 Baltimore 81 64 Denver 85 57 New York 78 68
i) -a •. 

---Boston 74 65 Geneseo 87 61 Philadelphia 82 68
S~~;e~ T-;t~~s Rain ;:.,~;;;e~ ~~~·~· Ice Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy 
Chicago 84 58 Las Vegas 103 76 San Diego 74 69 
VIB Associated Press GraphicsNet 

Tuesday, August 27, 1996 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
.• NOTRE DAME OBITUARIES 
Special to The Observer 
Robert Gordon 

Hobert Gordon, Notre Dame's vice president emeritus for advanced studies, died June 2 in LaGrange, Ga., where he resided. 
Gordon, who joined the Notre Dame faculty in 1958. played a pivotal role in the development of postbaccalaureate instruc­tion. research and sponsored programs at the University. lie Sflrved for 18 years as Notre Danl!l's lirst vice president for advanced studi!ls. 
Born in New York City, Cordon grew up in Atlanta, and it was his southernness that becamfl his trademark, said Hobert Mcintosh. a colleague. 
"lie had a lot of flngaging Southern gentleman airs," Melntosh said, "and he was a particularly good story and joke tellflr with an inlinitfl memory for stories on virtually any sub­jflct, always told with a lot of animation. lie was sought after as a witty speaker." 
Thtl research interests of Gordon. a noted vertebrate zoologist and ecologist, includ­ed the behavior and taxonomy of reptiles and amphibians, as well as their life history and population dynamics. 
After an ad for an ecologist in Science magazine by an unnamed "midwestern univer­sity" brought Gordon to Notre Dame, he eventually became a senior scientist in the University's Radiation Laboratory, served as chairman of the biology department from 1965-67, and was associate dean of the College of Science from 196 7 until he was named vice president in 1971. He retired in 1989. 
He is survived by his wife, Sarah Catherine Tigner ("Buddy") Gordon; two daugh­ters; a brother; and a grand­daughter. 
A funeral Mass was held June 3 in LaGrange, and a wake was held later that day. Burial was in Greenville, Ga. 
William Hamill 
William Hamill, a professor of chemistry and a radiation research director at Notre Dame from 1938-81, died Aug. 12 in South Bend. He was 88. 
Born in Oswego, N.Y., and raised in Utica, N.Y., Hamill earned a bachelor's degree in science from Notre Dame in 1930 and a master's degree in science a year later. lie com­pleted his doctoral studies in chemistry in 1936. 
Clubs! Are you ready for Student Activities Night next Tuesday, September 3 
This space is for you! Stop by the Club Council to take advantage of your free advertising space in this column. 
Stop by our 2nd floor LaFortune office to see what the Club Council has to offer you and your organization! 
great scores... 
eo 
oe 
Kaplan helps you focus your test prep study where you need it most. We'll show you the proven skills and test­taking techniques that help you get a higher 
score. 
great skills... 

Kaplan has the most complete arsenal of test prep tools available. From videos to software to virtual reality practice tests with computerized analysis to great teachers who really care, nobody offers you more ways to practice. 
Classes forming now! Caii1-800-KAP-TEST 

get a higher score 
KAPLAN
In South Bend Call 272-4135 
In the early 1940s, Hamill served as liaison between researchers at Notre Dame and the University of Chicago work­ing on the Manhattan Project to develop an atomic bomb. 
In 1946-47, he joined with Nobel laureate Willard Libby on a project to detect carbon-14, a study that led to important find­ings in measuring the age of antiquities. 
Hamill, whose daughter Carol Rita has Down's Syndrome, was a charter member and a mem­ber of the board of directors of the St. Joseph County Council for Retarded Children, an orga­nization associated with the founding of South Bend's Logan Center. 
Hamill is survived by his wife, Angela, of South Bend; five daughters; and five grandchil­dren. 
A funeral Mass was held in the Basilica of the Sacred Heart at Notre Dame Aug. 16. Burial was in Notre Dame's Cedar Grove Cemetery. 
Memorial contributions may be made to Logan Center, P.O. Box 1049, South Bend, Ind., 46624. 
Loret Miller Loret Miller Ruppe, a Notre Dame trustee and former U.S. 

ambassador to Norway, died Aug. 6 at her home in Bethesda. Md., of ovarian can­cer. She was 60. 
Ruppe, who became a trustee in 1989, directed the Peace Corps from 1981-89, the longest tenure in that agency's history. She served as ambas­sador to Norway from 1989-93. 
She is survived by her hus­band, Philip Ruppe, who repre­sented Michigan's 11th U.S. congressional district from 1966-78, and by their five daughters. 
Ruppe's Notre Dame connec­tions were extensive. Her grandfather, Byron Kanaley, was chairman of the University's Associate Board of Lay Trustees, and her father, Frederick Miller, was captain of Knute Rockne's 1928 football team. 
She received an honorary doctorate of laws degree from the University and delivered the commencement address in 1984. 
A funeral Mass was celebrat­ed Aug. 9 in Potomac, Md. Memorial contributions may be made to the Peace Corps Family Fund, 3245 Prospect St. NW, Washington, D.C., 20007; or to Montgomery County Hospice, 1450 Research Blvd., Suite 310, Rockville. Md., 20850. 
WASHINGlDN HALL--Bruce Auerbach, Director of Theatre of Notre Dame Communica­tion and Theatre. has announced that the annual reception for students interested in theatre will be held Wednesday, August 28, at 6:00P.M. in Washington Hall. Students inlerested in acting, directing. sets. costumes. lights. management. or theatre as a major are encouraged to auend. 
Theatre at Notre Dame is open to all students-­majors and non-majors--who wish to participate. A wide variety of activities is available including: acting, scenic design and constuction, costume design and construction, lighting design and execution, marketing, directing and stage manage­ment. There are theatre opportunities to fit every schedule and level of talent. If you have a willingness to learn, you are qualified. 
Becoming involved in theatre is an excellent way to meet new people. make new friends, and have a great time while involving yourself in the creation of something special on campus. 
This season. the Department of Communication 
Chargers set up Culver fund 
Special to The Observer 
The San Diego Chargers have established a trust fund for the children of Hodney and Karen Culver, who died May 11 in the crash of ValuJet Flight 592 in the Florida Everglades. 
Culver, a 
memberof 
...w~-­t h e Chargers at the time of his death, was a four-year letter-winner at Notre Dame as both a tail­back and fullback. He ran for 1,697 career rushing yards, 19th on the all-time list, and graduated from the University in 1992 with a bachelor's degree in finance. 
He was a captain of the 1991 team. 
A memorial Mass for Culver was held May 24 at the Joyce Center. Athletic Department chaplain Father James Riehle presided. 

and Theatre (COTH) will present a mainstage season consisting of four plays as well as many other acting and directing projects. Mainstage productions this season will be: 
Barefoot in the Park A Christmas Cam/ The Grapes ofWrath 
In addition, COTH will host a residency by DYNAMO THEATRE of Montreal, Canada, sponsored by the Paul M. and Barbara Henkels Visiting Scholars Series. Acting and directing project'> are showcased at the end of each semestec All of these projects will need a great amount of student support. There are positions for all who wish to participate. 
Auditions for the first two plays of the season will be held Wednesday, August 28, and Thurs­day, August 29, at 7:00 PM. 
If you cannot attend the reception, but wish to be involved or have questions about the program. please call Bruce Auerbach at (219) 631-5957. 
OUR PORTIONS ARE BIGGER 
THAN YOUR HISTORY BOOK. 
Fazoli's wrote the book on fast Italian. And our authentic Italian entrees from Alfredo to Ziti are big enough to feed afraternity. 


Real Italian. Real Fast T1l 
52770 U.S. Route 33N, South Bend • 277-4008 
page 4 The Observer • NEWS Tuesday, August 27, 1996 
"Notre Dame should be flat­
tered that we want to be asso­
Logo Dor01s 
Hurricane Edouard 
ciated with their school." continued from page 1 Shaw Memorial has not been continued from page 1 contacted by Notre Dame offi­the Central Catholic's choice cials regarding the school's the weight room is lacking in 
bypasses Caribbean 
went unnoticed until the bas­logo, the president said. size. 
ketball prowess of one of their students attracted collegiate coaches from nationwide ­including Notre Dame. 
"I received a fax of their logo and it was indeed our lep­rechaun," confirmed Dick Conklin, associate vice-presi­dent of University Relations at Notre Dame. 
Conklin contacted Catholic Central in the spring, politely explaining the legal ramifica­tions of using the registered Notre Dame design as its own. "In any instance where the similarities are too great, we have to explain the legal prob­lems with using our registered design." 
That may create problems for other Catholic high schools ­including one in southern Indiana-who have a similar, if slightly altered, version of the leprechaun as their mascot. 
Though the resolution of the affair with Catholic Central was amicable, officials at Shaw Memorial, situated in Madison, Ind., were vague when describ­ing their school's logo. 
"Ours is facing a different way, and the colors are a little different," noted the school's president, who asked not to be identified. 
Though the logo is present only on the gym wall and not on any clothing, the president maintained that students and community members have loved the symbol and would be upset with any changes. 
"We're a small Catholic school and we're proud of the school spirit created by using the leprechaun," he said. 
Conklin explained that Notre Dame must challenge any such use of their leprechaun in order to prevent it from becom­ing a generic symbol. "When people see it, they should auto­matically associate it with this university." In order to pre­serve that, Conklin added, the school must protect its exclu­sive ownership. 
The University offered the services of their creative people in designing an original look for Catholic Central's lep­rechaun, but the school chose to use local artists instead. 
"We try to bend over back­wards to help," Conklin said. "We share an educational mis­sion with all Catholic institu­tions, but we don't want to cre­ate confusion as to which school our leprechaun design represents." · 
At Catholic Central, the ath­letic teams will replace their logo with a new leprechaun. After funding is raised, the school will replace its gymnasi­um floor and the new version will debut there as well. 
Ann Colliflower, director of development at Catholic Central, said she knew the logo eventually would have to be changed. 
"It is their logo. We knew this would come," Colliflower told the South Bend Tribune in July. "We were just biding our time." 
Hours: 
*New for SMC store Mon thru Thurs: 1 1 a.m. -1 a.m. Fri thru Sat: 1 1 a.m. -3 a.m. sunday: 12 p.m. -1 a.m. 
"I think the social space would be better located in individual rooms, not the mid­dle of the hallway." 
Other complaints include the absence of jacks for tele­vision antennae (which Grace did have), the lack of kitchen­nettes and vending machines on each floor, and restrictions on forming unofficial quads and six-man rooms. 
Said Daignault, "These could be great dorms in time. They're really what the stu­dents make of them." 
Ground was broken for the two dorms in 1995 to accom­modate the former residents of Grace Hall, which has since been converted into an office building. Each new dorm houses about 270 students. 
The first floor in each dorm features a large main lounge, two smaller lounges, a main study room, two smaller study rooms, a full kitchen, a food sales outlet, a weight room, a:nd laundry facilities. The 
Associated Press 

MIAMI 
Edouard, the season's strongest Atlantic hurricane to date, appeared Monday to be headed well north of the Leeward Islands on the eastern rim of the Caribbean. 
Edouard's sustained winds had slacked to about 130 mph before dawn Monday, but climbed by late afternoon to 140 mph, the same top speed as Sunday, the National Weather Service said. 
At 11 pm. EDT, Edouard's center was about 400 miles east-northeast of the Leeward Islands -still about 1,600 miles from Florida -and heading west-northwest near 14 miles an hour. At that speed it travels 336 miles a day. 
Air Force aircraft flew into 


"The Most Popular Number on Campus" 

~·.::.lcorne Students, Faculty, and Staff! 
Get Back to School with Award Winning Pizza 
~oted "Best Delivered Pizza" The 1995-1996 Observer ryoted "Best Delivered Pizza" 1993 Best of Michiana [yYoted "Best Delivered Pizza" 1994 Best of Michiana ~oted "Best Delivered Pizza" 1995 Best of Michiana [ifvoted "Best Delivered Pizza" 1996 Best of Michiana 
Dine-In and Delivery at both 
Edouard late Monday and found the classic shape of a hurricane, with a wall of clouds defining the 25-mile­wide eye, the National Hurricane Center in Miami said. 
"It's a perfect conical type of shape," hurricane specialist Max Mayfield said. "It's like standing in a stadium." 
Foreceasters at the hurricane center are not predicting yet if Edouard will make landfall in the United States. 
Farther out in the Atlantic, a tropical depression with 35 mph winds formed. It could become a Tropical Storm Fran by Wednesday afternoon, the hurricane center said. 
That storm's center was about 1,200 miles east of the Lesser Antilles, moving west at 18 mph. 


Locations: 
Saint Mary's: 
271­

North Village Mall 
PAPA 

~.Notre Dame:
271­

formerly Cactus Jack's 
1177 
•Delivery Drivers 

•Order Takers 
•Pizza Makers 
*Fun Work Environment *Top Pay *Flexible hours: 
-Work 10 hours or Work 40 hours 
-School is Top Priority-We Understand *50°/o Discount on Pizzas *Two Locations Close to NDSMC campuses 
Call now for more information or stop by and pick up an application: 
Notre Dame:  Saint Mary's:  
1827 South Bend Avenue  52565 us 33  
(formerly Cactus Jack's)  (North Village Mall)  
271-1177  271-PAPA  

Papa John's Pizza is an Equal Opportunity Employer 
-----·--------------------~------------~----------------------~ 
Tuesday, August 27, 1996 
The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS page 5 
• NAMES IN THE NEWS 
Texaco endows chair in alum's name The Texaco Foundation has ITimted an endowed professor­ship at Notre Dame in honor of Alfred DeCrane Jr., a Notre Damn alumnus and trustee and the rnem1lly rntirnd ehair­lllllll of tlw board and eheif extleutivn oflieer of Texaco Ine. The Alfred C. DeCrarw Jr. Chair in lntnrnational Studies will be awardnd to a "distin­guislwd academic whose scholarship is international in scope and who exerts trur. intellectual leadership in a field of the sodal sdenees or humanities," aecording to a press rnhmstl. 
Grant sends Wiltrout to Seoul Katie Wiltrout. a 1995 Notre Dame graduate, is one of 19 (:ollnge graduates to be desig­natml a Luce Scholar for the 1996-97 year. She will spend tlw next 10 months living in Seoul as a reportnr and editor for The Koma Times, a 50,000 circula­tion, English-language daily nnwspupnr. 
Wiltrout spent the summer of 1995 as a Pulliam Fellow, writing and reporting for the Indianapolis News. Prior to accepting her assignment in South Korea, she worked as a reporter for The Associated Press in Indianapolis. 
Four students win Rotary grants Four Notre Dame students have earned 1996 Ambassadorial Scholarships from Hotary International. Martin Tracey, a doctoral student from Norfolk, Conn., will apply his scholarship to continued work in medieval studies in Europe. Beth Swiney, a senior from Tulsa, Okla., is majoring in French. She will use her schol­arship to study in Austria or France. Anne Linehan, from Whitefish Bay, Wis., and Dan Glennon, from Falls Church, Va., are 1996 graduates who earned bachelor's degrees in government and international studies. They plan to pursue advanced studies in Argentina and Australia, repectively. 
Turbiak, Miller ready for year 
By LORI ALLEN Saint Mary's News Ediwr 
Saint Mary's College President and Vice-President Jen Turbiak and Beth Ann Miller kicked off their cam­paign last semester "Running with a vision for the mission of Saint Mary's College." Turbiak and Miller aimed towards con­ti-nuing the spirit and enthusi­asm of the college while initiat­ing new and better ways in which to promote it. 
Previously involved with the Residence Hall Association and LeMans Hall Council, Turbiak stepped into the role of student body president with both expe­rience and enthusiasm . 
As student body president, counselors and the welcoming
T.urbiak is responsible for the committee, everyone deserves effective operation of the credit for working so hard to Student Government make things happen," said Association, and is the official Turbiak. 
representative of the student It was the voice of the student body. body that also drew in Beth 
"The enthusiasm of the peo­Ann Miller as Turbiak's run­ple involved makes this a won­ning mate for student body vice derful experience. From the president. resident advisors to the student As vice president, Miller is government to the orientation responsible for all areas con-


Order TODAYI 
Send in this coupon or for faster service call 1-800-TRIBUNE (1-800-874-2863) and ask for Operator 20 I 
FULL-TERM, 32WEEKS HALF-TERM, 16WEEKS 
I 

Seven-day D $64.00 ($2.00/wk) D $37.60 ($2.35/wk) 
I

Mon.-Sat. D $41.60 ($1.30/wk) D $25.60 ($1.60/wk) 
I

Sun. only 0 $56.00 ($1.75/wk) D $28.00 ($1.75/wk) 
On-campus delivery will automatically stop for vacations and holidays. 
I 

Payment by: D Check D MasterCard D VISA D American Express D Discover 
I 

Account No,_______________Exp. Date --------­
I 

Signature·---------------------------­
I 
Please print 
I

Name·______________________School_____ Address/dorm,___________________Apt./room no. __ I City·__________________State__Zip _______ I Phone(__)_________________________ 
I 

In areas not serviced by home delivery. ~ail subs~riptions will be offered.This offer expires December 3 I, 1996. 
I 

Offer not valid wrth any other Chrcago Trrbune drscount. 
P6361 

L------------------~ 
··~ 

cerning student academic life and chairs the Student Academic Council. Miller's previous experience includes serving as executive secretary for the Board of Governance and working with campus min­istry. 
''I'm hoping that academics is put more into the spotlight. We really want to keep the stu­dents informed on what is going on, and give more expo­sure to the various gifts that the students bring into the community," said Miller. 
Together, Turbiak and Miller plan on sticking to their cam­paign promise and honoring the rich tradition of Saint Mary's College. Turbiak and Miller say they will try to improve campus communica­tions, promote multicultural awareness through knowledge, build on the spirituality that already exists, and according to Miller, "continue to give the students input concerning aca­demic issues on campus through the Student Academic Council." 
"We want to try and create a community on campus that is multi-faceted to introduce the freshmen to the variety of opportunities that exist, so that they too can tap into the enthu­siasm and build from the spirit of belonging," said Turbiak. 
Hunt art on exhibit at Snite 
Special to The Observer 
Works by Chicago artist Richard Hunt will be on exhibi­tion at the University of Notre Dame's Snite Museum of Art through Sept. 1. Entitled "Richard Hunt: Growing Forward," the exhibit opened with a reception in the muse­um on June 9, which Hunt attended. 
The reception marked the 30th anniversary of Hunt's first exhibition at Notre Dame. 
Since that first display at age 31, his status as an interna­tionally prominent sculptor has been cemented by shows at both the Museum of Modern Art in New York and the Art Institute of Chicago. In addi­tion, he has received more than 100 commissions for pub­lic artworks in American cities. 
The "Growing Forward" exhibition, organized by the Snite Museum and the Studio Museum in Harlem, to which he will travel in December, includes sculpture, study mod­els, maquettes, prints, and drawings representing Hunt's work for the last ten years. 
page 6 The Observer· CAMPUS NEWS Tuesday, August 27, 1996 

Just one more box... Lights 
continued from page 1 
The pre-cast concrete beams supporting the four corners and press box are already rein­forced because renovation planners had anticipated adding lights at some uncertain time in the future. 
This summer's official deci­sion to add the lights was reached with little debate, according to Smith. 
"It came up mutually. They (NBC) just know from experi­ence that late in the year it starts getting dark early in the day in northern Indiana," he explained. 
To light the new stadium with its outer wall 30 feet higher and 65 feet more distant than the original stadium would have required portable lights far more powerful, expensi"e, and cumbersome than ones NBC had previously used. 
"It's a clean solution, aesthet­ically. The appearance of the stadium will be kept intact," Smith stressed. 
Initial student reactions to the University's decision to add lights were mixed. Some sup-' ported lights as a necessary measure while others were more critical, in part because of a perception of Notre Dame catering to television interests. 
"Notre Dame has so much tradition that they shouldn't just do what NBC wants, they should just keep it the way it's been for decades," said Alumni 

Celebrate a friend's birthday with a special Observer ad 
freshman Dan Cooley. 

"It's nice to see the University is trying to dispel the myth that they're more interested in wealth and rich alumni than current students," sophomore Morrissey resident Bill Irvine facetiously noted. 
Some say the coming of lights is an assault on tradition. 
"Notre Dame stadium is leg­endary for its classic design. People think of it as old, so 1 don't like the idea of lights," Alumni freshman Kareem Ha.ijar offered. 
"They've changed so much already that if they want to add lights, they can make that change, too," lamented Megan Stifel, a Walsh senior. 
"Lights will make it more of a generic stadium. Notre Dame faces the same obstacle that Wrigley Field ran into a few years ago," said Sean Smith, an O'Neill freshman. 
The tension between perma­nent lights and administrative assurances of no forthcoming night games also troubles some students. 
"I suppose it's fine, but if there aren't going to be any 
''Cheers!'' 
Happy 21st Birthday, Susan 
Love, Mom, Dad, and Kristin 
night games, I'm not sure why they want lights. I've seen games on TV and the picture doesn't seem that bad," observed Alfonso Castillo, a third-year law student. 
"Lights will have to be fine. NBC gets the best of Notre Dame anyway. In a few years when people forget that they said there won't be night games, we'll see night football here," Dillon's Guerin Gray remarked. 
Other students were less criti­cal, however. 
"It's got to be done, Notre Dame has got to keep up with the times and keep financing the things that they do," said Brendan Kenny, a Dillon fresh­man. 
"Everyone here loves the publicity that TV brings to Notre Dame, so if NBC wants lights, you just have to take the good with the bad," said Kristine Oven, a first-year law student. 
Regardless of student senti­ment, the lights are expected to be in place for the final two home games of the 1996 sea­son. 

Welcome Back Students! 

Announcing Fabulous First Fall Savings 
At your Roseland Car-X Muffler and Bral'-e 317 Dixieway., South 219-272-6433 
r----------------------------, r----------------------------, 
I 50o/o OFF BRAKE SHOES AND PADS* I : l5o/o OFF ANY EXHAUST SERVICE :
I I I Disc or drum. Foreign or domestic cars or light I 
: Coupon must be presented at time of purchase. : : trucks. Lifetime guaranteed shoes or pads. : I Not valid with any other coupons, I : See Manager for details. : I specials or offers 1I 
1 I I I See Manager for details. I
1*Labor and additional parts not included. Coupon must be presented all I I I time of purchase. Not valid with any other coupons, specials or offers. I I I 
I Offer expires 9/30/96 II Offer expires 9/30/96 I 
L----------------------------~ L----------------------------~ 

Tuesday, August 27, 1996 The Observer· NATIONAL NEWS page 7 
Citadel women begin drilling Fires burning across 
By BRUCE SMITH Supreme Court declared uncon­"I didn't think it would be 
200,000 acres in west
Associated Pr~ss Writer stitutional the all-male admis­that short," senior Gary Foster 
CIIAHLESTON, S.C. 

Housed from bed before day­brnak with shouts and heavy­metal rock, the four women eadets at The Citadel got short haireuts, rAeeivnd uniforms and started inhmse military training alongside their male counter­parts Monday. 
Although two of the women shed a few tears -as did some of thl! men -everyone seemed to bn adapting well, said inter­im eollege President Clifton Poole. 
"They're trying to march. They're trying to stand straight. Thny're trying to salute and they're trying to just keep their eornposum together," he said. 
In June, after a 3 1/2-year lngal battle, The Citadel dedded to end its 153-year-old men-only poliey and admit women. The move carne two days after the sions policy at Virginia Military Institute, the nation's only other all-male public college 
The four women made Citadel history late in the day as they marched onto a field and took the cadet oath in a light rain. Shannon Faulkner became a cadet a year ago under a court order but fell ill the first day of training, left school four days later and never took the oath. 
The beat of the ACJDC song "Hell's Bells" echoed through a barracks courtyard in the dark as the intense freshmen mili­tary training known as "Hell Week" began. Upperclassmen shouted, "Get up, knobs!" 
Later, while the 572 men received the traditional close haircuts that earn freshmen the name "knobs," the women got slightly longer cuts, though their hair was still well off the collar and above the ears. 
~OBSERVER 
Now Hiring ... 

Systems Manager 

Quark Nctworldng 
Photo.shop Web Administration 
hcchand User Training 
Illustrator Streamline Manage a ~t01lf of 
FilcMakcr Pro 
:; dt:dicatcd 

MSWord Systems As~htanh 

Excel 
~ 

The Systems Manager is responsible for one of the largest student run networks on campus. With over 25 Macintoshes, 5 printers, 6 modems, and 4 servers, The Observer offers one of the best learning oppor(unities on campus for Computer Science majors. Ifyou are interested, please submit a one page letter of intent describing your experience to Sean Gallavan at The Observer, 314 LaFortune Student Center, by Monday, September 2. Freshmen encouraged to apply. 
INDIANAUNIVERSITY 
SournBEND 
CONTU«<TNGEDUCATION 

More than 300 classes in professional and personal development 
• Computers • Technology • Travel Agent Training • • Business Management • Small Business • Supervision • • Communication • Languages and Culture • Allied Health • • Certified Financial Planner • CEBS • Human Resources • • Accounting • Customer Service • Paralegal Studies • • Purchasing Management • Small Manufacturing • • Production/Inventory Management • Home and Garden • Quality Management • Safety and Health • • Real Estate • Insurance • Montessori Education • • Early Childhood • Youth Programs • Personal Finance • 
College Proficiency • LSAT, GRE, GMAT Reviews • • Healing and Wellness • Personal Enrichment • Recreation • 
Classes begin throughout the fall Call for your free catalog 237-4261 
said after seeing Nancy Mace's new trim. 
Reporters weren't allowed to talk to the women to get their reactions. 
After getting their haircuts and picking up supplies at the bookstore, Kim Messer of Clover and Jeanie Mentavlos of Charlotte, N.C.. lost their com­posure and cried briefly. Messer wiped her eyes while holding her cadet handbook. A few minutes later they were stoically heading back to their barracks, carrying duffel bags holding their uniforms and other supplies. 
Cadets are known to cry dur­ing the stressful training. said Harold Poston, senior class president. Some men were also seen crying at the bookstore. 
"I know you're scared," Regimental Commander Bryant Butler, the highest-ranking stu­dent officer, told the freshmen earlier in the day. "Everybody's been there, but it's not impossi­ble. You can make it. You can do it." 
A bugle call marked the beginning of military training. The knobs had to report offi­cially to their companies, stretching to write their names at a table without stepping across a line on the floor a cou­ple of feet away. All the while, student officers yelled orders at them. 
When Petra Lovetinska, a Czech who lives in Washington, signed in, a cadet sergeant threw up his hands in disgust and ordered her to do so prop­erly. 
Ms. Mace, who is from Goose Creek, was ordered to run to the back of the line and sign in again, apparently for some mis­take. 
By ALEXANDRA HARDY 
Associated Press Writer 
BEND, Ore. 
New lightning fires were sparked in the Cascade Range on Monday as Army troops arrived to help battle blazes that have burned 100,000 acres in Oregon alone. 
About a dozen new fires were spotted in an area where the desert meets a mountain range that includes the snow­capped Three Sisters. 
Hazy smoke cleared just enough to allow a view of the mountains for the first time since fire moved into this area of central Oregon over the weekend, burning 18,000 acres of rangeland and destroying 19 homes. 
The fire was 90 percent con­tained by mid-afternoon. 
Meanwhile, about 500 Army mountain troops and support personnel hardened by fire­fighting in the Mendocino National Forest in northern California flew into the Redmond Airport outside of Bend and prepared to move out. 
In southern Oregon, a suspi­cious wildfire threatened about 20 rural homes west of the town of Sutherlin. 
In all, about 18,000 people were fighting fires on more than 238,000 acres in Oregon, California, Washington, Idaho, Utah, Nevada. Montana and Wyoming. 
"A lot of our firefighters and equipment are starting to wear out a little bit, especially our firefighters," said Wendell Peacock, spokesman for the National Interagency Fire Center in Boise, Idaho. 


AP 

In central California. about 37,000 acres were ablaze in a remote area of Yosemite National Park and Stanislaus National Forest. Steep terrain and inaccessibility were ham­pering the effort. 
In Southern California, lire­fighters battled two blazes north of Los Angeles. 
More than 3,500 acres of dry brush had burned 40 miles northwest of the city and heavily traveled Interstate 5 was blocked at times. 
A 15-year-old boy was detained, suspected of starting the fire. 
In steep terrain near Azusa, 25 miles northeast of Los Angeles, bees apparently drawn by the yellow hardhats and shirts worn by firefighters made life miserable at a blaze that has burned 1,400 acres. 
In north-central Washington, flames burned across 10.000 acres on the Colville Indian Reservation. The fire was just 10 percent contained. 
In central Idaho, high tem­peratures and low humidity gave fires there a chance to grow to 28,000 acres in the remote, steep terrain of the Frank Church-River of No Heturn Wilderness area. 
Welcome Weekend '96 
' 
August 29 
Reggae Fest 
featuring "Uraeus" 
Free T~shirt tie dye,and make beaded necklaces and arm chains 
Field House Mall 
6,9PM 
*''Dead Man Walking" Cushing Auditorium, 10:30PM $2.00 Admission 
*Acoustic Cafe 
at the Huddle 
9PM ~ 12:30AM 
• ' 
August 30 
* e come Back Picnic 
Food-Dance-Prizes!! Free photo buttons and key chains 
Field House Mall 
4,8pm 
*ComedyNight 
at Washington Hall 
Featuring: Gerald "Green Eyes" Kelly and J.B. Smoove 
8pm $3.00/Student, $5.00/non-students 
*"Dead Man 
Walking" 
Cushing Auditorium 8pm and 1 0:30pm $2:00 
Saturday, August 31 
*Outdoor Movies 
on North Quad -8:30pm "The Lion King" -1O:OOpm "Seven" 

Free popcorn and soda 
*"Dead Man Walking" 
Cushing Auditorfum 8pm and 10:30 pm $2.00 


nsored By: Multicultural Student Affairs -Student Activities -Student Union Board 
page 8 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT Tuesday, August 27, 1996 
40o/o OFF ENTIRE STOCK JANSPORT BACKPACKS 

SALE 35.99
SALE 26.99 
AQUA CALIENTE 
SUPERBREAK 
Reg. $60. In black, chili or forest. Water bottle included. 
Reg. $45. In forest, black, navy or chili. 

ORDER ANY TIME TOLL FREE 1-800-528-2345 
Tuesday, August 27, 1996 The Observer· NATIONAL NEWS page 9 
Chemical on TWA 800 not significant Secret Service 
Nitroglycerin may not be bomb-related 
By PAT MILTON 
Associated Press Writer 
SMITHTOWN, N.Y. 

A trace of nitroglycerin found in the wreckage of TWA Flight 800 probably played no role in the explosion and may simply have been in a passenger's lwart medieine, a source said Monday. 
The source, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said the nitroglycerin was found on wreckage nnar the back of the plane and nowhere near where another explosive chemieal ­identified by sources as PETN -was diseovered. 
The July 17 explosion that broke the plane apart, killing all 230 people aboard, is thought to have taken place nenr the center of the plane. 
The souren who spoke to The Associated Press on Monday spneulated the nitroglycerin could have been brought aboard by a person with a heart condition. 
In addition to its use as an explosive, nitroglycerin is used for heart conditions such as angina because it dilates blood vessels. 
PETN, or pentaerythrite tetranitrate, also has been used as a heart medication but not in recent years. 
On Friday, the FBI announced that it had found "microscopic explosive traces of unknown origin" on the wreckage. Sources identified the chemical as PETN, found in some plastic explosives. 
That was the first concrete evidence pointing toward a bomb or a missile, rather than mechanical failure, as the cause of the blast. 
But FBI Assistant Director James Kallstrom said that without some other evidence, such as certain damage to the Boeing 7 4 7, the trace of explo­sives is not enough to declare the crash a criminal act. 
Kallstrom said Monday that the airplane had been used to transport U.S. military person­nel to the Middle East within the last few years. 

Students look­on new and used cars Gates Chevy World 
Call Greg Mitchem at 237-4000 for appointment 


He did not say whether investigators believe that's how the substance got aboard the plane. 
"Certainly it's the type of thing we're interested in," Kallstrom said. "Obviously, ordnance is not authorized to go onto commercial aircraft transporting military person­nel." 
lie said the FBI is working with TWA to figure out which flights had carried the military personnel 
Kallstrom also said the FBI has interviewed "a good por­tion" of the passengers aboard the Athens-to-New York leg of the plane's flight. 
The plane exploded shortly after takeoff from New York, where it had had a three-hour layover after arriving from Athens. 
At sea, the salvage effort was shifting to a 400-square-yard area where the back of the jet hit the water 10 miles off Long Island. 
More than 160 divers have worked for five weeks along with Navy salvage vessels to recover about 60 percent of the aircraft from water up to 120 feet deep. 
They are running out of wreckage to collect, Hobert Francis, vice chairman of the National Transportation Safety Board, said Monday. 
"This is little stuff that's being brought up," he said. "There's no large pieces of wreckage out there.... The size of the pieces is starting to diminish." 
Most of the plane's mid-sec­tion, where the explosion is believed to have originated, 
PETN 
pentaerythritol tetranitrate 
Pentaerythritol tetranitrate molecule 
PETN was a component in the 
bomb that brought down Pan Am 
Flight 103 over Lockerbie, Scotland, 
in 1988. It's typically mixed with 
other explosives and materials like 
latex. This makes it malleable and 
easily concealed. Also, it does not 
dissolve in water. 
'-------------~-

still is missing, the AP's source said. 
"We need more of the floor, more seats and the rest of the eenter fuel tank," the source added. 
Kallstrom refused to com­ment on that statement. 
lie did say NASA experts have found "nothing excep­tional" in the two main fuel pumps from the center fuel tank that would point toward a mechanical failure triggering the explosion. 
The pumps were sent to Huntsville, Ala., so they could be examined by the same NASA experts who studied the 1987 Challenger explosion. 

sting upsets customers 
Associated J.>ress 
LOS ANGELES 

The credit histories of 35 credit cardholders were used without their knowledge in a government sting to nab a sus­pected renegade computer operator, the Los Angeles Times reported Monday. 
''I'm upset, I'm real upset," said Joe Becker of Costa Mesa. "I want to know how this hap­pened. Financial information is private, and I have a right to privacy." 
U.S. Secret Service agents supplied Ari Burton of Las Vegas with the customers' names, addresses, home phone numbers, Social Security num­bers, credit card numbers, available credit lines and out­standing balances. 
The computer operator went for the bait and has since pleaded guilty to charges of possession of stolen credit information. 
The information did not stay concealed with the Secret Service. The detailed credit his­tories ended up with the defen­dant, his lawyers and anyone else who obtained a copy of the case file. 
None of the cardholders gave permission for the files to be used. 
A few of the cardholders found out their information was used in the sting when contacted a few weeks ago by the Los Angeles Times. The information on them was released three years ago. 
TI IE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Interested in computer graphics? 
Looking for a paying job with flexible hours? 

call Tom Roland @ 1-4541 
The Observer is currently 
fling the paid position o 
Circulation Drivers 
Must have an open schedule between 11:00 AM and2:00PM. 
call Matt Casey@ 1-5313 
·~-----------------------­
page 10 The Observer • CONVENTION NEWS Tuesday, August 27, 1996 
State Dems say Bayh will back Gore in 2000 
By CHARLES WOLFE 
Associated Press Writer 
CHICAGO 

Gov. Evan Bayh, far from being a rival for the presiden­tial nomination in 2000, will back Vice President AI Gore, Indiana delegates said Monday. 
"He's said many times that he's very supportive of (Gore). They're personal friends," Indiana Democratic Chairman Joe Andrew said. 
That surprised some party leaders in Kentucky. who had promoted their governor, Paul Patton, as keynote speaker for the Democratic National Convention. President Clinton instead gave the honor to the telegenic Bayh, who will make the address Tuesday night. 
Bayh, upon arriving at the Democratic National Convention site Monday night, said he had not endorsed Gore, nor had he and the vice presi­dent specifically discussed his support for a Gore candidacy. 
Bayh. noting he and Gore are close friends, said he would not run in 2000. 
Kentucky Lt. Gov. Steve Henry said he had been led to believe Gore thought of Bayh as a potential rival in 2000, and that there was friction between them. 
Andrew seemed surprised. "I think it unlikely the president and vice president would want to promote someone they viewed as not being support­ive," he said. 
As governor, Bayh has con­sistently supported the admin­is.tration, Andrew said, and no deal was part of his selection as keynote speaker. 
But Terry McBrayer, a Democratic National Committee member and former Kentucky Democratic chairman, also was surprised by such early expres­sions of Bayh's support of Gore. Bayh's backing clearly makes Gore the front runner for the nomination, McBrayer said. 
Bayh is expected to run against U.S. Sen. Dan Coats, R­Ind., in 1998 and has raised $1.3 million for a Senate cam­paign. 
Andrew said Republicans want voters to believe that Bayh is too young, too ambi­tious, and only wants Coats' seat as a stepping stone . 

Bayh's speech: Values 
Associated Press 

CHICAGO 
Indiana Gov. Evan Bayh's keynote address to the Democratic National Convention will be about val­ues, families and the chal­lenge of changing times. he said Monday. 
Bayh also said he and President Clinton talked "friend to friend" about the speech earlier in the day. 
Bayh will give the keynote address ~ a prized assign­ment -Tuesday night. He and Vice President AI Gore entered the arena for the first time Monday night. and both were mobbed by admirers, reporters and photographers. 
"I intend to speak about traditional values and what we can do to renew them to meet the challenges of our own times ... and most impor­tantly to create a better world for our children," said Bay h. who has. 9wmonth-old twin SOJ)S. 
Earlier Monday, Indiana Democratic Chairman Joe Andrew said Bayh and the Clinton-Gore campaign share ideas. but no one dictates to Bayh. "This is his speech. He's writing it." 

• 
ASSORTED COLORS 
• 
Available in seven colors 

• 
Double inside pockels 


Ust Price 53.05
79c 
OlliceMox Everyday Low Price 
IFJU~ttla 
Stick Pens 

t/Guaranteed Low Prices t/Selection To The Max t/Satisfaction Guaranteed-.... 
Canon 
File Tote 
• 
Accommodales letter/legal size files 

• 
Buill-In rail for hanging flies 

• 
Ousl cover 

• 
Indigo blue 


lis1 Prke 517.99 
Model# BJC-210

$9" tt(.).\1:tJiil·lit1[C, ~ • 
Graphing Canon Color BubbleJet Printer 
OlliceMax Everyday Low Pri<e 

Calculator • 720 x 360 dpi black resolution 
• 8-line x 16-character display • 300+ TrueType fonts on CD-ROM
SINGLE SUBJECT 

Five Star Notebook • Equation solving capabilities ICanon J.Shirt Transfers $16.99 1403-0I03 I 
• 
8-1/2' X11' Sheels • Back-up battery I BC-02 Black Cartridge $21.99 1402-1300 I 

• 
College Ruled 



• 100 Sheels 
lis1 Price 54.15 

$~ $8999 
OllkeMax Everyday Low Prke OfficeMax Everyday Low Price 
«·HI•l@iMt {"'l;AT&T Answering Machine 
~ 
• 
Tapeless microchip recording 

• 
Selective skip, save and f(__ delete '"'>;..; 

• 
LED message display ,_,_.. 


OHice 95
• Remote capabilities 
Upgrade 

Model#l710 0201-4108 

$229~!·6370 
OfficeMox Everyday Low Price OffkeMox Everyday Low Price 
xtended Back To School Shoppmg Hours Now Through Sept 8 Sun 10am-6pm Mon-Fn 7am-10pm Sat 9am-9pm, Open Labor Day 9am _ 6pm r---------------------------,
_.i Jl 0 V"ISit our state-of-~ I
O.a. .a.. ce ax Business Service Cenler I
SERVING THE MICHIANA AREA! 
& save on 1 

Self·Service
MISHAWAKA I SOUTH BEND 
WILSHIRE PLAZA
• 

COPIES! 
Grape and Douglas Roads, next to Media Play 
1-11'2" 111' blact lak 111 211111111e boad pa,er.
273-0328 
D1e CCIIPOI ,er Clllomer. 
lot nlld wHh IIJ oilier oller. 
eo.,. -111111111~ 1111151116 • 122574341027 : L---------------------------~ 

Tuesday, August 27, 1996 The Observer· NATIONAL NEWS page 11 
Aboard train, Clinton targets family abusers 
By RON FOURNIER Associated Pr•ss Writer 
AHI.INGTON, Ohio 

Charging toward Chicago with a trainload of fresh pro­posals, President Clinton demanded Monday that family abusnrs forfeit their right to bear arms. In a challenge to gun-eontrol foes. he said, "Those who threaten the safety of othnrs do not deserve our trust." 
Surrounded by uniformed police, with his 13-ear train as a backdrop, the president poked fun at congressional Hepublicans who he said "scarnd a lot of pnople" by warning that Clinton's gun­
control  efforts  threaten  
huntt~rs.  
"l'vn never  seen  a  deer  

hunter with an Uzi," Clinton said before boarding the "21st Ctmtury Express" in Columhus, Ohio. to continue his journey to the Democratic National Convnntion. 
Later, the train rumbled into downtown Bowling Green, Ohio, and was quickly sur­rounded by an enthusiastic uowd of thousands. People waved signs that said "Bill 

AP/Bob Bianchini 
Rocks" and "No U-Turn. We're on the right track." 
The president, striking a more partisan tone than earlier in the day, told the crowd: ''I'm more interested in what to do than who to blame." 
Clinton's appearance, open· ing the second day of a careful­ly scripted four-day train trip, was designed to one-up rival Bob Dole as the two candidates try to build their anti-crime credentials. 
Aboard the train, Clinton stood glued to the caboose platform for miles -shouting "llllllo's and "thank you's" into a microphone for pockets of Ohioans who gathered track-side for a glimpse of their pres­ident. Whenever the whim struck him, Clinton reached for a lever above his head and blew the booming train whistle. 
"I love this," he enthused. A helicopter hovered overhead, ready to beam whistle-stop images to the convention. 
Moving north toward Toledo, Clinton rolled past miles and miles of farmland to reach a park in quiet Arlington. A green field was lined with stacks of hay, makeshift seats for hundreds of citizens who sat hours in the hot sun wait­ing for the president. 
Pounding home the trip's main theme, Clinton promised the crowd he would focus on education, the economy and crime in a second term. "We're on the right track," he shouted, his voice cracking. "Why in the world would we reverse course?" 
Clinton continued to attack Dole's $548 billion tax-cut plan, measuring it against his own $110 billion proposal. Clinton said he would "fess up" that Dole's tax cut would be bigger. But, he added: "There's a·big difference between the one I'm promising and the one they are: We can pay for mine." 
Clinton endorsed a bill, lan­guishing in Congress, that would prohibit people convict­ed of any offense involving domestic violence, even a mis­demeanor, from buying or pos­sessing a firearm. Aides said Clinton's proposal would be slightly modified from that plan. 
He also reiterated his propos­al to ban so-called cop-killer bullets that pierce armored vests and to ban guns within 1,000 feet of schools. 
"I believe strongly in the right for Americans to own guns," Clinton said. 
"But make no mistake: Those who threaten the safety of oth­ers do not deserve our trust." 
The crowd roared its approval. "The heck with the NRA!" shouted Ron Barna of Columbus. He later said, "This ol' Bill has got some guts." 
Dole campaign spokeswoman Christina Martin said Dole's proposal for instant back­ground checks on all gun pur­chases would do more to keep weapons away from weapons abusers, and dismissed Clinton's proposal as mere rhetoric. 

Clinton's pollsters found sur­prising support for his 1994 attacks on the National Rifle Association. 
He won passage of the Brady Act, which requires a back­ground check and five-day waiting period for people who buy guns, and a ban on certain assault weapons. 
The Brady Bill is named for James Brady, who as White House press secretary was struck by a bullet intended for Ronald Reagan. Brady's wife, Sarah, was addressing the con­vention Monday night. 
Clinton's advisers believe a gun-control proposal aimed at family abusers is potentially a political gold mine because it speaks to the concerns of a swing voting bloc -women. But gun advocates are certain to say Clinton is chipping away at the Second Amendment. 
The anti-crime initiatives are part of a collection of proposals Clinton is dribbling out on his way to Chicago. A White House official, speaking on condition of anonymity, said Clinton would unveil a $2 billion litera­cy proposal in Wyandotte, Mich., on Tuesday. 
\ \ \ . \ ' \~·'·' \t ;:~~j '' \ 
\ \ '( '. . ' \ \ 
' • \ " \\ ' \ ' \ < ' '\
. \ \'(. \ ·.-·' \~'
Lowen,nu\The·cos 

~· \ )_() 


Higher Eqycation... Every Day 


• 
Computers &Accessories •Software 

• 
School Supplies 


• 
Printers, Fax Machines, Calcul and Other Business Machines 

• 
Furniture 



Plus, check out the in-store 
Business Center for all your 
printing and copying needs 

Call 1-800-557-33 7 for the store nearest you 
NEW HISTORY COURSE 
FALL 1996 
AMERICAN INDIANS 
& 
ANGLO-AMERICANS 
DR. MICHAEL KNOCK 
HIST 468 01 DART #4560 1:30-2:45 M&W 114 O'SHAUGHNESSY HALL 
NEEDA]OB 
that fits your busy schedule? 
Memorial Home Care offers an excellent opportunity to fit work around your class load! 0 We're seeking energetic, responsible, caring people to join our KidKare child care staff. 0 As a KidKare registry staff member, you will be called to fill staffing assignments for area families in need ofchild care services. 0 Evening or daytime, you accept assignments that meet your schedule! 0 Flexible hours. Great pay. 
Call 273-2273 to find out more! 

Memorial Home Care® 
17390 Dugdale Drive, South Bend, IN 46635 
-~---~ 

page 12 The Observer· PAID ADVERTISEMENT Tuesday, August 27, 1996 
ACTIVITIES NIGHT 1996 
Tuesday, September 3rd 7:00pm-9:00pm Joyce Center (Gate 3) 
The following groups are registered to participate in Activities Night. Ifyour club or organization is not listed, and you would like to participate, please stop by the Student Activities Office, 315 LaFortune, and have your club or organization placed on the waiting ~ist. For more information, calll-7308. 
African American Student Alliance African Students' Association AIDS Ministries/ AIDS Assist AIDS Awareness Aikido Club Alpha Epsilon Delta American Cancer Society American Inst. of Aero. and Astro. American Inst. of Architect. Students American Inst. of Chemical Eng. American Society of Civil Eng. American Society of Mech. Eng. Amnesty International Arab American Club Arnold Air Society Arts & Letters Business Society ASHRAE Asian American Association Asian International Society Bagpipe Band Ballet Folklorico Azul Y Oro Ballroom Dance Club Baptist Student Union Best Buddies Big Brothers/Big Sisters Biology Club Bocce Club Bowling Club Campus Alliance for Rape Elimination Campus Ministry Campus Fellowship CAPP Honor Society CASH Catholic League Cavanaugh Hall Players Center for Social Concerns (CSC) Center for the Homeless Center for Basic Learning Skills Chapin Str./St. Joseph's Healthcare Chatholic Charities Chiara Home Inc. Children ofMary Chorale Circle K International Class of 1998 Climbing Club College Republicans College Democrats Collegiate Choir Computer Club Coro Primavera De N uestra SeOora Council for Fun and Learning Council on Inter. Business Dev. Countryside Place Nursing Home Cricket Club CSC -Post Graduate Service Opportunities CSC -Social Concerns Seminars CSC -Social Concerns Seminars CSC -Summer Service Projects 
CSC-Urban Plunge Cycling Club Dome Entrepreneur Club Equestrian Club 
F.I.R.E. Home 
Farley Hall Players Fellowship of Christian Athletes Feminists for Life Filipino American Student Org. First Aid Services Team Flips ide Folk Choir Foodshare Girl Scouts of Singing Sands Goodwill Industries Greek American Association Gymnastics Club Habitat for Humanity Handbell Choir Hansel Head Start Hawaii Club Healthy Babies Hispanic Business Student Assoc. Homeless Shelter Children's Group Hospice Chapter Hospitality Prog. HUGS Humor Artist IEEE India Association International Student Org. Investment Club Irish Accent Irish Outdoors Italian Club Japan Club Judo Club Juggler Magazine Junior Achievement Club Knights of the Immaculata Korean Club LaAlianza La Casa diAmistad Lambda Alpha Society Le Cercle Francais League of Black Business Students Lithuanian Awareness Club Liturgical Choir Logan Center (Council for the Retarded) Madmacs Management Club Manantial Marketing Club Martial Arts Institute Math Club Memorial Hospital Medical Explorers Mental Health Assoc. of St. Joe County Men's Club Volleyball Mexican American Eng. & Scientists Minority Pre-Medical Society MIS Mock Trail Association Model United Nations Ms. Wizard Day Program Team Multicultural Executive Council Muslim Students' Association NAACP NASCCU National Youth Sports Program Native American Student Assoc. 

Neighborhood Study Help Program Northeast Neighborhood Association Nuestra Voz Observer Omicron Delta Epsilon Pan-African Cultural Center Parkview Juvenile Center Physical Therapy Club Physics Club Porn Porn Squad Potawatomi Zoo Pre-Dental Society Pre-Law Society Pre-Professional Society Pre-Vet Club Psychology Club Rec Sports Recylin' Irish Right to Life Rowing Club SADD Sailing Club Salon of Friendship Scholastic Magazine Sex Offense Services Shamrox (Alumni-Senior Club) Shenanigans Silver Wings Ski Team Social Justice Forum Society ofAutomotive Eng. Society ofProf. Journalists Society ofWomen Eng. South Bend Community Schools Adult Ed. Spanish Club Student Advocates for Inclusive Ministry Student Alumni Relations Group (S.A.R.G.) Student Government Student Players Student Tutorial Ed. Program Student Union Board Students for Governmental Action Students for Responsible Business Super Sibs Synchronized Swimming Club TaeKwonDo Terra Club Toastmasters International Ultimate Club United Health Service Unites States Air Force R.O.T.C. Vietnamese Student Association Voices of Faith Gospel Ensemble Water Polo Club Wind Ensemble Womens Liturgical Choir Womens Care Center Womens Resource Center World ofTae Kwon Do Federation World Hunger Coalition Wrestling Club WSDN-FM WVFI-AM 

Tuesday, August 27, 1996 page 13
The Observer • NATIONAL NEWS 

Whoa, dude: Montana speed limit exists Procedure 
By SUSAN GALlAGHER friendly talk about the law in Montana. mph on interstates and 65 mph on two­may help 
Associated Press Writer Fifteen Mercedes-Benz test drivers were lane highways. That's only about 2 mph not so lucky. They were issued $70 tickets faster than under the old speed limits. 
'Werewolf' girl 
HELENA, Mont. in late July for driving about 100 mph in a But many among the other 15 percent 
Montana Highway Patrol officer Mitch convoy on Interstate 90 near Billings. are really ripping. Tuttle said cars topping Tullltl zipped north on Interstate 15, in hot The planned nature of the speeding 100 mph, once seen four or five times a By CHRIS McDOUGALL pursuit of a shiny new Chrysler with didn't sit well with some officials. year, now are fairly common. Associated Press Writer Alberta plates cruising toward the "I think it shows a real lack of respect, Accidents are up, but they were already Canadian border at 87 mph. not only for the law in Montana, but for the rising in 1995, when crashes totaled PHILADELPHIA 
Montana's daytime speed law specifies rights and safety of Montana drivers and 20,000 and slightly more than 10,000 peo­Children in her native only a "reasonable and prudent" speed for tourists from other states and countries," ple were injured, Goke said. Fatalities are Puerto Rico would run away conditions. But with a sharp crosswind said Attorney General Joe Mazurek. "Even down slightly from last year. screaming from 2-year-old whipping across the highway, Tuttle had if these were professional drivers, not Montana still has posted limits in and Abys DeJesus. Adults would his doubts that the Chrysler's velocity was everyone else on the road was." near towns, along highway construction often stare and mutter at the reasonable OH prudent. Col. Craig Reap, commander of the zones and in some other locations. There toddler with the mask of 
And when the car finally was pulled to Highway Patrol, has received calls from a are set nighttime limits of 65 mph on inter­dense brown hair over her the interstate shoulder, Tuttle heard a Corvette club and other groups asking if states and 55 mph on two-lane highways. nose and half her face. protest he had heard before, from other they could visit to drive fast. Trucks are limited to 65 and 55, day and Abys faced a life of isolation, indignant motorists: One French tire maker wanted to run night. as well as the possibility of an 
"Montana has no speed limit!" cried Bill tests at 140 mph. "I told him that's not Reap wants Montana to have a specified early death. Her condition, Mouwen of Calgary. what we consider reasonable and pru­daytime speed limit as well, but he won't known as congenital hairy 
Patrol officers are finding many people dent," Tuttle said. recommend a number until he can review nevus, is potentially fatal. don't understand an important fact about The state is trying to let people know summer traffic data. The final decision will But a Philadelphia pediatric Montana's speed law: It may be imprecise about Montana's law in a $20,000 cam­be up to the Legislature, which convenes in surgeon says a three-month -hut it definitely exists. paign with the keystone message: "Whoa, January. procedure scheduled to begin 
"A lot have read that Montana has no Dude." Using billboards, posters, fliers, There will be opposition. Rep. Sonny today could leave the girl speed limit," Tuttle said. "People think bumper stickers and ads on TV and radio, Hanson, R-Billings, is a leading supporter nearly unscarred, and virtual­every day's a good day to drive fast." it is aimed mainly at out-of-state motorists. of the current law. ly remove the risk that the 
In faet, Tuttle said, some days are just "I think that from the beginning, the citi­With a few exceptions, Montana high­furred patch may develop into bud days for speed; the weather is one fac­zens of Montana had a fair understanding ways are not crowded, he said, and he a highly dangerous from of tor he eonsiders in deciding whether a of what this law was about," Reap said. believes people should be able to cover the skin cancer. speed is "reasonable and prudent." Traffic, "The reports I get are that the highest­state's vast distances quickly, if they can do "The operation should highway design, the age and condition of speed vehicles are out-of-staters." it safely. improve her appearance 500 the ear, even tire wear -they all can play The figures do suggest speeding is up. "I think the basic rule (reasonable and percent," said Dr. Adrian Lo into the decision. From January through June, the Highway prudent) works great," said the legislator, of St. Christopher's Hospital. 
If the trooper decides it's a violation, the Patrol issued 3,094 warnings and 3,622 an engineer who said he drives his Buick The surgeon plans to insert line can run from $70 to $500, many times tickets for violation of the "reasonable and Riviera between 85 and 90 mph on inter­balloon-like implants into the $5 penalty typically imposed when prudent" standard. During the same period states. Abys' forehead, cheek, nape, Montana had federally mandated limits of in 1995, 487 warnings and 1,823 citations For his part, Tuttle said he finds himself and neck -five in all -and 65 mph on interstate highways and 55 on were issued. spending a lot more time in court. People gradually expand them with two-lane routes. Most people do not appear to be lead­are more inclined to challenge their tickets, saline solution. Lo has used 
Those tickets didn't go on a driver's foots. Traffic Safety Administator AI Goke he said, and that takes officers oiT the road the technique on other recon­record, either. The new ones do. said that for 85 percent of the drivers in so they can defend the citations before a structive surgeries, but noth­Mouwen got only a warning ticket and a Montana, average speeds are about 75 judge. ing this extensive. 

INDIAN RIDGE PLAZA 5924 GRAPE RD., MISHAWAKA, IN 219-273-6097 
Do Your Brand Name Shoppin• Where The Price Is Always 
We Have It All! 
i.J The Brands You Want g The Styles You Love J;;j The Lowest Prices...Guaranteed! 
r -ISiiCI~ &;&IWiY£i. 1-, 
I Present This Coupon to Receive I 
IN THE 

I I I I I I I I 
THE WHITE STICKER PRICE OF I ANY PURCHASE $24.97 OR HIGHER I 
"""'i::. 

Expires:9115/96 Code:3428 I -:_1 i=-Packard BelL Not Valid with Any Other Discount or Sale Offer. .J 

Tuesday, August 27, 1996 

page 14 The Observer • INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Mexico steps up opposition to U.S. blockade of Cuba 
By NICK ANDERSON 
Associated Press Writer 
MEXICO CITY 

Days before a Clinton admin­istration official's visit to defend the policy, President Ernesto Zedillo stepped up his attacks on a U.S. measure aimed at broadening its eco­nomic blockade Qf Cuba. 
In a television interview Sunday, Zedillo made clear Mexico was unlikely to budge in its opposition to the Helms­Burton Act, saying the mea­sure is "simply a violation of international law." 
He cited a recently released legal opinion from the Organization of American States. The organization said that the measure "is not in conformity with international law." 
Zedillo said the OAS decision was "a clear triumph" of Mexican diplomacy. 
The law seeks to punish companies that do business in Cuba using property confiscat­ed from Americans after Cuban leader Fidel Castro took power in 1959. 
The United States and its trading partners, however, are 
Mother Teresa spends 86th birthday in hospital 
By ASHOK SHARMA 
Associated Press Writer 
CALCUITA. India 

Mother Teresa spent her 86th birthday today in a hospital bed, hooked up to machines and sur­rounded by doctors treating her 
for a lung infection and a faltering heart. 
Prayers were held across India for the R o m a n 


Catholic nun Mother Teresa 
who has 
inspired millions with her mix 
of piety, frugality and selfless 
service to the poor and the ail­
ing. 
Doctors at the Woodlands Nursing Home in Calcutta have expressed cautious optimism that she is responding to treat­ment. 
Special prayer services and other celebrations began Monday for Mother Teresa, the champion of the world's poorest people. ln 1993, then-Prime Minister P.V. Narasimha Rao erroneously sent birthday greet­ings a day early, beginning a tradition of celebrating on both days. 
Nuns and visitors at the head­quarters of the order Mother Teresa founded have sung hymns every day and prayed for her speedy recovery. In turn, Mother Teresa has summoned the sisters and blessed them. 
Doctors have cut in half her time on a respirator. Mother· Teresa has been under round-· the-clock medical supervisionl by a team of six doctors who' were concerned the lung infec-· tion could develop into pneumo-· nia. 
Mother Teresa was hospital­ized on Aug. 20 with a 1DO­degree fever brought on by malaria. Doctors say the fever aggravated her heart condition, which has caused her heart to fail three times since Thursday. 
The Nobel Peace Prize laure­ate has been battling illness for years. She suffered a heart attack in 1983 during a meeting with Pope John Paul II in Rome. In 1989, a second, stronger, heart attack left her with a pacemaker. 
divided on the issue. Canada, European nations and Mexico call the law a violation of their sovereignty and say they may retaliate. 
Aware of the growing opposi­tion, Clinton assigned Commerce Undersecretary Stuart Eizenstat to lead a new effort to try to persuade coun­tries critical of his Cuba policy to collaborate with U.S. efforts to promote democracy on the island. 
Eizenstat is scheduled to arrive here Tuesday to pro­mote the U.S. policy. ln a state­ment Monday, the Mexican Foreign Ministry said officials would reiterate their "unshakeable policy" of friendship and bilateral coop­eration with Cuba when they meet Wednesday with Eizenstat. 

Clinton signed Helms-Burton into law in March after the Cuban military shot down two civilian aircraft flown offshore by a group opposed to Communist President Fidel Castro. 
The act allows lawsuits in 
U.S. courts against foreigners who use property seized by Castro's government from U.S. 
companies or citizens, includ­ing people who were Cuban citizens at the time of the con­fiscation. 
It also bans executives of companies investing in such property from the United States. 
The United States has warned Grupo Domos of Mexico that it faces sanctions for investments in the Cuban phone system seized from International Telephone and Telegraph. 
Mexican companies are among the largest foreign investors in Cuba. 

Former Argentinian ruler dies 
Associated Press 
BUENOS AIRES, Argentina 
Alejandro Lanusse, a former 
military ruler who paved the 
way for civilian government in 
Argentina, died Monday. He 
was 77. 
Lanusse underwent surgery 
last week to remove a blood 
clot near his brain after suffer­
ing a fall at his home, doctors 
said. He had been unconscious 
since the operation. 
Lanusse, a tall, grey-haired 
army officer, became 
Argentina's third military 
president in five years when 

PLEASE RECYCLE 
THE 

OBSERVER 
THE DOLLARS AND 

~ 
AIR FORCE ROTC. 

~ Air Force ROTC makes a lot of sense 
for many reasons. Start with the dollars: the eligibility to apply for scholarship programs that can help pay for tuition, fees and textbooks--even provide you with $150 per academic month. 
There's much more--you'll develop management skills and the ability to motivate others. Everything you learn will help you the rest ofyour life. 
Start by contacting the ND Air Force ROTC team at 631-4676. 
AIR FORCE ROTC 
Leadership Excellence Starts Here 


he seized power in a bloodless coup in March 1971 against another general, Roberto Levingston. 
He held office until 197 3. Within six months of taking power, he ordered general elections for March 1973. 
Lanusse altered the anti­communist stance of his mili­tary predecessors by re-estab­lishing diplomatic ties with China and by meeting with Chile's Marxist President Salvadore Allende in July 1971. 
His liberal approach dis­turbed right-wing officers who mounted an armed challenge in October 1971. Lanusse secured the backing of the navy and the air force, and the challenge to his rule collapsed. 
In recent years, Lanusse was an outspoken critic of the gov­ernment of President Carlos Menem. 
He was briefly placed under house arrest in 1993 after accusing Menem of being "frivolous" and a "womaniz­er" in a magazine interview. 
He is survived by nine chil­dren and his wife, Ileana. There was no immediate word on services. 


Get experience for future employmentin your hands now 
College Coupons, the leader in university student coupon books, is currently inter· viewing for local sales representatives. Put your previous sales experience ro good use. Our customers buy 86% of the time. Sell3-5 months of the year. .. Part time! Tax advantages. No investment. Must have access to a car and be able to lift 40lbs. 
Call today! 
Collefle Coupons 
J-800-767-8393 aanet) 
SPOUSES OF STUDENTS 
Are you new to the area and confused about where to begin your job search? 
We have full-time temporary and temporary to hire positions in the following areas: 
• Bookkeepers  • Admin. Assistants  
• Staff Accountants  • Customer Service  
• AlP, AIR, Payroll  • Receptionist  
• Purchasing  • Data Entry  

Don't wait -call or send your resume NOW! 

401 E. Colfax, Suite 401 South Bend, IN 46617 
Phone: 219-282-3980 Fax: 219-282-3995 

/ Wednesday, August 28 \ 
I M~=~k· LSAT\ 
JSign up in 101 O'Shaughnessy \ 

Tuesday, August 27, 1996 The Observer· INTERNATIONAL NEWS page 15 
American financier 
Chess' Karpov beats all on-line sentenced to 13 years 
ByMATTIHUUHTANEN chose the king's pawn (e2-e4). boards arranged on tables for Associated Press Writer Karpov countered in two sec­chess buffs who paid $6.60 to By ANITA SNOW "Why would I try to defraud onds with the Caro-Kann (c7-sit in the same room as Karpov. 
Associated Press Writer people of money in a country 
HELSINKI, Finland c6). At Karpov's request. organiz­where I am alive because they Hundreds of online chess As many as 300 players sub­ers sped up the game by cutting 
MEXICO CITY have let me stay here?" he 
brains tried to unite, but mitted suggestions to the world­the time limit for each move Fugitive financier Robert asked the court then. Russian world champion wide computer network for the from 10 minutes to seven. Vesco, who evaded American Vesco had admitted pressur­
Anatoly Karpov made mince­moves. The game ended when Last month, Karpov retained authorities during decades on ing government officials and meat of them in the first open white would have had to sacri­the World Chess Federation the run. was sentenced to 13 investors to get the drug TX chess game on the Internet. fice its queen to avoid an imme­champion title by beating chal­years in prison Monday after a patented in Cuba, "so our ene­Monday's match went 65 diate checkmate threat. lenger Gata Kamsky. 
Cuban court convicted him of mies wouldn't get it and regis­
moves and took 4 1/2 hours, "It was a good game," Garry Kasparov of Russia,economic crimes against the ter it first." with Karpov playing black and Karpov said. "They were seri­who holds the title of the break­state. Vesco's lawyer presented consensus playing white. White ous players." away .Professional Chess 
Vesco, a Detroit native who only a handful of witnesses moves came from suggestions Karpov played his side of the Association, is regarded as the became one of America's most during the trial during the first 
sent in over the Internet, with game in a dimly lit hall at the world's best chess player. prominent fugitives from jus­week of August. He argued the most frequently proposed Hotel Intercontinental in the tice, was found guilty of pro­that the evidence was weak, move chosen by a computer. Finnish capital. The game was The Internet address for the 
ducing and marketing a cancer and said Vesco had always Internet users. who had seven reproduced on a large white Karpov game is: and arthritis drug without the acted in good faith in hopes of minutes to propose an opening, screen, computer monitors and http://www.tele.ftlkarpov.
Cuban government's knowl­aiding Cuba's ailing economy. edge. The verdict and sentence Prosecutors presented depo­were announced in the state­sitions from 31 foreign 
Tenth man Aid workers rush in
run Prensa Latina news investors who said they gave agency. monitored in Mexico Vesco money to invest in a cor­City. poration that would market the 
arrested in

Lidia Alfonsa LLauger, drug -on the understanding 
where no one else will Vesco's Cuban wife. was con­that Cuba had approved the victed of lesser charges in the project. 
By CHRIS TOMLINSON But Goree-Borja and other
porn ring

case and receivednine years, Among the 30-odd witnesses Associated Press Writer aid workers go where few for­the Cuban news agency said. who testified for the prosecu­
Associated Press eigners will. doing what they
tion was Jose Antonio Fraga
Vesco settled in Cuba after NGOZI. Burundi can in places where there is no 
fleeing the United States 25 Castro. President Fidel Castro's 
BRUSSELS, Belgium Jessica Gorre-Borja's morn­one else to call for help. years ago to avoid charges that nephew. Fraga Castro was Police arrested a 1Oth sus­ing commute takes her down a Some rescue workers 8re he bilked mutual fund director of the laboratory test­
pect in a child pornography dusty, red road, through a cof­quick to respond to catastro­investors of $224 million. Cuba ing the drug. 
ring blamed for the disappear­fee plantation and into the phes in wealthy countries oth­has refused U.S. repeated Vesco is wanted in the United ances and deaths of young heart of some of the worst trib­erwise at peace. But in poor requests to extradite him. States on various charges, girls. Pierre Rochow, the son of al fighting in Africa. countries stricken by war,
Cuban authorities arrested including making an illegal a scrap yard owner, was Her white four-wheel-drive famine or natural disaster,
Vesco in May 1995, alleging he $200,000 contribution to 
arrested Monday for the theft truck, emblazoned with black international relief agencies was secretly trying to sell the President Nixon's 1972 re-elec­
of cars -the same charge that block letters. identifies her as are the only source of help.drug TX overseas, which he tion campaign. A 1989 U.S. landed main suspect Marc outsider, a representative of Gorre-Borja. a 26-year-old 
was developing with the help indictment accuses Vesco of the United Nations. The logo American, works for the U.N.
Dutroux into preventive cus­

of Cuban government labs. using Cuba as a base for drug 
tody in March. offers little protection in High Commissioner for Vesco already has been in cus­trafficking. Belgians were shocked to Burundi, where murders are Refugees and is responsible for tody 14 months awaiting trial. Vesco had faced up to 20 often political. helping Rwandan refugees at a
learn that Dutroux, a 38-year­

During rambling testimony years in prison on the charges 
old convicted pedophile, was She tries not dwell on that. camp near Ngozi.earlier this month. Vesco, 60, against him. He and his wife arrested and released while he "Sometimes we duck under It is not her first assignment.
have 10 days to appeal to the
denied he defrauded the coun­was holding two 8-year-old the table because of gunfire," She has worked with Somali try which had given him haven Cuba's Supreme Popular girls in a dungeon. The two she said. "But you get used to refugees in Kenya and with 
from U.S. authorities. Tribunal. 
girls subsequently died. it." 
SAVINGS UP TO 
50% 
FF REG. PRICES 
Douglas Road east to Grape, tum right (south) onto Grape Road, 1/2 mile on left at stoplight, tum right for the best deals on carpet. 

OUR ALREADY REDUCED PRICES MON.-FRI
•CARPET 
SAT. 9:00-5:30 

•VINYL 277-9711 
SUN. -1:00-5:30 



•WOOD •CERAMIC 
•AREA RUGS 

Decorators Walk Shopping Center • Grape at Day Road, Mishawaka OVER 1000 CARPET REMNANTS ON SALE! 
Burundian refugees in Hwanda 
as a volunteer under a program 
that paid only a stipend. 
That was just before Rwanda exploded into ethnic violence in 1994, and she was evacuated. She went on to assist Rwandan refugees flee­ing to Burundi and later worked in Zaire before taking a break. 
"You get used to the anar­chy," Gorre-Borja said. "After two weeks back in Europe I was in culture shock. I thought: Send me back to Africa!" 
Aid workers are global nomads, with assignments last­ing from three months to three years. They move from emer­gency to emergency. 
Many started careers in other fields, but were drawn to disas­ter. Take Daniel Richer, 38, a former computer analyst from Penardville, N.H. He now works for the International Federation of the Red Cross managing logistics in refugee camps. 
When things get tough, Richer thinks about "how dis­satisfied I was in other jobs." 
Salaries depend on the agency and assignment. People on their first mission may only make a few hundred dollars a month, plus room and board. 
The Observer 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer 
is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's com~ 
munity. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two catnpuses. Please complete the accompanying form and mail it in today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer and mail to: P.O. BoxQ Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $70 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $40 for one semester 
Name ______________________________________ 
Address------------------­City __________State Zip___ 
VIEWPOINT 
page 16 Tuesday, August 27, 1996 
THE OBSERVER 
NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1996-97 General Board 

Editor-in-Chief Elizabeth Foran Managing Editors Business Manager Patricia Carson Matt Casey Tom Roland 
News Editor ........................ Brad Prendergast Advertising Manager ............................ Ellen Ryan Viewpoint Editor .................. Meaghan Smith Ad Design Manager ...............................jed Peters Sports Editor .................... .Timothy Sherman Production Manager.......................Tara Grieshop Accent Editor........................... joey Crawford Systems Manager ............................ Sean Gallavan 
Saint Mary's Editor................. Caroline Blum Controller .......................................... T ylcr Weber Photo Editor .......................... Michael Ruma 
The Observer is' the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies ofthe administra­tion ofeither institution. The news is reported. as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned edi­torials represent the opinion of the majoricy ofthe Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Columns presem the views of the authors, and nO£ necessarily those ofThe Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's com­
munity and to all readers. The free expression of varying opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 

Editor-in-Chief 631-4542 Business Office 631-5313 Managing Editor/Viewpoint 631-4541 Advertising 631-6900/8840 Sports 631-4543 Systems/Marketing Dept. 631-8839 News/Photo 631-5323 Office Manager 631-7471 Accent/Saint Mary's 631-4540 Fax 631-6927 Day Ediror/Produc[lon 631-5303 Viewpoint E-Mail Viewpoint. I @nd.edu GeneraJ Information 631-7471 Ad E-Mail observer@darwin.cc.nd.edu 
• AND IN THIS CORNElL. 
Starting fresh 
Last year, there are those of you who might have known me as the Antagonizer, the rabble­rouser, or even the "weirdo." 
Matthew 
Well, no more. Yes, I, having journeyed to the Emerald Isle (courtesy of generous funding 
Applefrom the Graduate School; pay attention, kids, this is what hap­pens when you study Modern Irish Language), have decided to mend my ways and return to the fold, a chastened sheep. 
Yes, no longer will I wickedly attack organized religions or semi­legally funded borderline-fascist monthly magazines. No more! Good-bye to the old me, I say! I have been enlightened by the world-renown Shrine at Knock, been humbled by the awe-inspir­ing Horse Races of Galway, been through many a transcendent stage by the bottomless pint. Lo, I am one with you, my brothers! 
But enough about myself; let me describe the new wonders of the Notre Dame campus to those of you who were home alone over the past few glorious summer months: 
Now, you, too, can travel along the cemetery to get to campus! Simply turn up Notre Dame Avenue and veer left, say a prayer the car diving headlong out of the visitors parking lot doesn't forcibly extract your back passengers, and enjoy the drive along Interstate ND. The view is lovely this time of year! Don't forget to stop and say hi to Knute. I'm sure he won't mind. Oh, won't Football Saturday traffic be simply smashing this fall! 
Be sure to admire all the new itty-bitty trees scattered randomly across campus! After all, they ripped down plenty of older, poten­tially dangerous trees just to make room for the young striplings! 
Give thanks that our splendid university fathers have access to a virtually unlimited supply of concrete and blacktop! Imagine, if it weren't for all these new sidewalks, we might be forced to look at grass all day long! In fact, I can't wait until the whole place is paved; it'd serve those tree-buggers right, interfering with progress! 
Stare in confusion at the Brand New Maps™ on the ground floor of beautiful DeBartolo Hall! Now it looks just like the UP Mall! Neat! And gawk in stupefication at the progress of the Stadium construction! Just take a look at it -no more small crowds for Notre Dame football, no way. Take that, Michigan! We'll have just as many seats as you! Nyah! 
Last, but certainly not in the least, I'd like to add a small note to my new FRESHMEN in English 109, section 17: What are you doing, reading this silly column? You've got Joyce to read. Grrrr. 
"Professorn Matthew T. Apple is a graduate student in creative writing who terrorizes local god-fearing members of the communi­ty on a bi-weekly basis. Receive more enlightenment at matthew.t. apple. I @nd. edu or http://www. nd. edu:801-mapple. 

Dear Notre Dame Students: 
I would like to extend to you a warm welcome on behalf of all of us who work in the Division of Student Affairs -the Offices of Residence Life, Security, Student Residences, Alcohol and Drug Education, Student Activities, International Student Affairs, Multicultural Student Affairs, Counseling Center, Career and Placement Services, Health Services, Campus Ministry and the staffs of your residence halls. Although we provide a variety of services, we share a common desire to so everything we can to help facilitate your intellectual. spiritual and personal growth in your lives outside the classroom. 
We welcome back the sophomores, juniors and seniors, as well as the returning graduate and professional students. We extend a special wei­come to our new students -the freshmen, transfer and new graduate and professional stu­dents. You join a proud community with a rich tradition that dates back more than one hundred and fifty years to a vision of our founder, Father Edward Sorin, C.S.C. We hope that all of you ­those who are new and those who are returning -will be able to achieve the academic, spiritual and personal goals you set for yourself this year. 

I hope that I will have the opportunity to come to know as many of you as possible in the months ahead. Until I am able to greet you in person, please know that you have my very best wishes for a year filled with all God's good blessings. 
PATRICIA O'HARA Vice President for Student Affairs 

CBLD keeps a safe distance 
Dear Editor: 
Once again it's time for every­one to return to the rigors of academic life. The fall is also a time when thousands of stu­dents begin racking up long­distance phone bills by calling family and friends. 
Once again CBLD is there with the free t-shirts and the outrageous long-distance rates. Don't get me wrong, I'm all for the free market which forms the basis of the United States economy but the operative word is freedom. Freedom to choose a long-distance phone company among those with the most competitive rates. Here are the facts about CBLD's monopoly with Notre Dame: 
On-campus students have their long-distance phone com­pany chosen for them; oh, how convenient! 
On-campus students who d~sire another phone service cannot receive residential rates because someone (Notre Dame or CBLD) has placed an unequal access block on the Notre Dame prefix. 

Students who do use another phone card pay an operator's fee if calling from their resi­dences (not on a pay phone). 
The rates on average are four cents more per minute. Doesn't sound like much? Let's do some math. Say the average student spends two hours a month on long-distance calls; that's $4.80 more per month per student. For a nine-month academic year, that comes to $43.20. Assuming about 8,000 students live on campus, that brings the total to $345,600 more that Notre Dame students are paying for long-distance service for living on-campus. 
What exactly is the relation­ship between CBLD and Notre Dame? Other than the fact that there are undoubtedly many alumni working for the compa­ny, including the vice president. Why CBLD and not Sprint, MCI or AT&T? It won't take a rea­sonably intelligent individual long to figure out why. The price of those free t-shirts are more than compensated for by higher rates the on-campus students pay to call home. This brings about another question; how much does CBLD pay Notre Dame for allowing them to corner the long-distance market on campus? Get real, eliminating the competition has got to be worth paying for. At least put our minds at ease by letting us know the money CBLD pays Notre Dame for the exclusive contract is going back to the school, perhaps to schol­arships. I always get a laugh when I read the last sentence on the CBLD statement of long­distance charges which reads: "Thank you for choosing CBLD." 
I'm sure the majority of the families of Notre Dame students would want their children to get the most for their money. Shouldn't the University admin­istration take care of the Notre 
Dame  family by doing  the  
same?  
JONATHAN DINIITO  
Graduate Student  


• DOONESBURY GARRY TRUDEAU 

• 0UOTE OF THE DAY 
"There are two days in the 
week about which and upon I never worry. Two care­free days, kept sacredly free from fear and apprehension. One of these days is Yesterday ... And the other day I do not worry about is Tomorrow." 
-Robert Jones Burdette 

ACCE,NT 
Tuesday, August 27, 1996 page 17 
The Faces of Change 
By DAN CICHALSKI Assisc:mt Accent Editor 
U
NIVEBSITY OF NOTBE DAME. That's the new gold-plated text mnblazonnd across the addition to Notre Dame Stadium and just one of the many changes that has occurred on campus since the close of the spring semester last May. 
Everyone must adapt to the new quads, buildings, and walkways that have altered the appearance of our dassic campus. But there is an elite eollection of roughly four hundred men who must adjust more than others. Tlwse are the sophomores, juniors. and seniors who now reside in the two rwwest dorms on campus, O'Neill and Ktmugh. 
Located south of South Dining Hall on what is oflieially West Quad (but unofli­eially Golf or Coke Quad). O'Neill and Keough rnsidnnts find themselves get­ting to know a whole new area of the Notre Dame campus. 
WP. now have a new path to DeBartolo that takes us down a sparkling cement drivt~way. past the new brick-covered main cireln, and through the Snsquieenlnnnial Archway. South is obviously the dining hall to which we now venture for our daily sustenance, and the Hock is much more accessible for pickup basketball games now that the Stepan Courts are a fifteen-minute walk away. 
Perhaps the best advantage of now living on the southern end 
H 
of campus is we is a lot more
e sa I 
used to up on Mod Quad next to the D-2 lot. Walking back from D-6, just past Security, the newly remodeled architec­
ture  building  can  almost be  seen  
through  the  
•d  t r e e s . Heinforced and refurbished. the structure  


are no longer in · the direct float­ing pattern of that ethanol stench that can only be com­pared to the northern stretch of the New Jersey Turnpike on a sweltering summer day. The ethanol, by the way. is worse. 
Also on the fastest-developing part of campus is the new Main Gate for cam­pus access. With a new main gate also comes the need for new lies to get your car on campus. The road now takes you through what was once the back nine of th~ Notre Dame Golf Course. And speaking of cars, parking for the residents of Golf Quad is now in the D-6 lot. a longer walk than Grace men were pleasing to the 
• • • eye than it was 
last semester, 
gutted and 
open with the 
construr:tion. 
The Stadium, though, is the renova­tion that most people follow and make trips specifically to that corner of cam­pus to check out the changes that have occurred. The familiar red-brick oval lies in the shadows of a hulking white mass that looks more like a modern Kmart blue-light special Stadium-In-A-Kit. Of course, the new stadium is not finished yet, and once the outside bricks are placed and the sidewalks and landscaping completed, it will once again fit in with the campus. But it will no longer be the House That Rockne Built. At least not on the outside. 

In the past. students have been able to return to campus to lind a new side­walk or two across what was once the worn-down grass of North or South Quad. This year, there are no new pathways (excluding, of course, the new system of sidewalks on West Quad) but one parking lot and a poorly-construct­ed high-volume route to class have been improved for the year. The lot next to St. Michael's Laundry Distribution Center and behind Stanford and Keenan was stripped and rebuilt. And the sidewalks by O'Shaughnessy-which used to flood like the shores of the Mississippi during the spring thaw-have been repaved and should drain much better than ever before. 
The physical changes to campus will affect the lives of those of us who will be spending the next year among our new surroundings and continuing con­struction. And down the road in the future, when we return for the games, the reunions. and the Parents' Weekends when we're the parents instead of the students, we'll finally be able to appreciate the new quads and buildings across Notre Dame's campus. 
By AS! I LEIGH THOMPSON 
AwKiJrc Acc~nr Edirur 
A
beautiful thing that many of us have come to Pxpecl from Notre Dame is ttw fact that nothing really ehanges. In the same vein as our infamous tradition runs a kind of comfort derived from this consistency. and whiiP. some students find this life monotonous, its dependability attracts reminiscent alumni, year aftnr year. to look around campus and remember the good ol' days. So what hap­pl~ns when this warm. cozy rug is pulled out from under you? i\llow me to explain. 
I thought the return from my night month absence would be t~asy to handle. but aftnr a ehallnnging semnster in Chile, my taxi ride on to campus remember register little more place should have been could have easily been my first than a blank where a name extremely reassuring. Instead, visit to Notre Dame. I quickly should be. I am scared. noticed the football stadium Maybe I was disillusioned to But I don't really think Notre was a different shape and.-_________________,Dame has changed all color. Just-finished roads that much. After my for two new dorms that I Chile experience, I'm struggle to pronounce, a probably the one under 

facelift on the architecture she s a .I d construction. Maybe I
building, barricades want to attribute the around Grace. a new changes that I have eountry kitchen theme in • • • experienced to campus, North Dining Hall rivaled even if I'm a little by life size posters of unsure what those James Dean on the wall, changes exactly are. and even a fresh coat of I'm not some caterpil­paint in the ObservP.r office think that a simple plane ticket lar turned butterfly. or a new deny me off the security I once would be enough to bring me unrecognizable person, but my felt on these grounds. No back. l wander campus in a pace is slower and at least for more scaffolding on the dome. daze, and try to take every-now I'm testing the waters. Pounds of concrete form new thing in that seems so far out-And all of this is positive. sidewalks. Hoards of newly side of me. I have an expanded I'm more observant as well as arrived tan faees surround me view of the world now, and patient. I embrace what is and those faces I should being thrust back into a small here with a new appreciation. 
... 
and know I will never have to  
share one printer with an  
entire campus, as I did in  
Chile. Some of the best people  
in the world are members of the Notre Dame community,  ..  
and some of the most unique  
opportunities lie within its bor­ 
ders.  
Instead of feeling strange, I  
focus on feeling renewed.  
Change is positive; without it  
none of us would ever grow.  
So bring on Golf Quad and a  
few more thousand people in  
the football stadium. And  
evolve, Dining Hall decor,  
evolve. At its core, Notre  
Dame will always represent  
tradition and security, and  ......  
people will continue to return.  
After eight months, I'm glad  
my homecoming has finally  
arrived.  




BABYSITTER NEEDED 1-2 DAYS  NO PARENTS NEED 2-4 FOOT­ ATTENTION ALL-MACHINES  
NOTICES  PER WEEK IN MY GRANGER HOME. TWO CHILDREN AGES 6  FOR RENT  Need OSU Tix! Have OSU hotel rms & all other tix to trade.  BALL TIX FOR WASHINGTON GAME. CALL MIKE V. 634-0997.  NO's #1-rated band from last  
,.  Entertainment Electronics Co. 3509 Grape Ad(@ Classic Stereo) 25s-11n Hrs: M-F 11-5 Sat. 1 0-2 You break it, we'll fix ill!! THAT PRETTY PLACE, Bed and Breakfast Inn has space available lor football wknds. 5 Rooms with private baths, $70 -$90, Middlebury, 30 miles from campus. Toll Road, Exit #107, 1-800-418-9487 FREET-SHIRT + $1000 Credit Card fundraisers for fraterni­ties, sororities & groups. Any cam­pus organization can raise up to $1000 by earning a whopping $5.00NISA application. Call 1-800-932-Q528 ext.65 Qualifies callers receive FREET-SHIRT Papa John's is now hiring delivery drivers, order takers and pizza makers. Top pay, flexible hours, close to campus locations. 50% off pizzas. Call your Papa now for Information or stop by for an application. NO-1827 Notre Dame Ave. (formerly Cactus Jack's) 271­1177. SMC-North Village Mall 271-PAPA. WANTED  & 8 FROM 3:30 PM -6:00 PM. MUST HAVE RELIABLE TRANS­PORTATION. PLEASE CALL 277-5786. MOTHER OF THREE ­FOUR MONTHS TO FOUR YEARS ­NEEDS HELP WITH CHILDCARE, TRANSPORTING CHILDREN AND LIGHT HOUSEKEEPING. TWEN­TY TO TWENTY FOUR HOURS A WEEK. $6.00 TO $#6.50 PER HOUR. TIMES ARE FLEXIBLE, BUT MORNINGS PREFERRED. OWN TRANSPORTATION, REFER­ENCES, CHEERY DISPOSITION, AND EXPERIENCE WITH YOUNG CHILDREN REQUIRED! CALL 272-3237 TO APPL Yl NATIONAL PARKS HIRING-Positions are now availalbe at National Parks, Forests & Wildlife Preserves. Excellent benefits + bonuses! Call: 1-206-971-3620 extN55848 ALASKA SUMMER EMPLOYMENT -Students Needed! Fishing Industry. Earn up to $3,000­$6,000+ per month. Room and Board! Transportation! Male or Female. No experience necessary. Call (206)971-3510 extA55847 EASTERN EUROPE JOBS- Nice 2BR+1Bath Apt. 5 mins from campus. 289-3790 3BDRM HOUSE NORTH OF N.D. 277-3097 Student Apt. -6 blocks from campus, affordable, clean 2-bedroom furnished-$360 Heat and water included 755 South Bend Ave. (comer of St. Peter & S.B. Ave.) deposit, references 1-800-582-9320 1, 2 & 3 BDRM HOMES NEAR CAMPUS. AVAIL NOW.272-6306 FURNISHED ROOM, AIR, KITCHEN, PHONE, 3 MIN. N. OF CAMPUS. 272-0615. FOR SALEI Who Needs A Bed? 2 new single beds for sale! Mattress, Boxspring, and Headboard included. Asking $275 each. Call Jarrod at 234-7601. Couch, 2 chairs 288-6529 Starting $225.00 TICKETS  Call Mike 612-937-2247 Need Married Student tickets. Call soon! 272-7223 Wanted: student season tickets. 272-7223 NEEDED: TICKETS for Purdue Game. Call (713) 364-9140 WANTED: FOOTBALL TIX APPS. $CALL JENNY@ 687-8435$ I will pay big $$$ for student fb books. Call Katie @ 243-9038. NOTRE DAME GA'S WANTED ALL GAMES HOME AND AWAY 232-0058 24 HAS. BUY -SELL -TRADE TICKET-MART, INC. WANTED: NOTRE DAME GA'S ANY/ALL GAMES. PLEASE CALL 232-0061. I NEED GA TIXS ALL HOME GAMES.272-6551 NO SEASON & INDIVIDUAL GA FOOTBALL TIX WANTED. CHECK OUR PRICES BEFORE YOU SELL 674-7645.  NO ALUM NEEDS FOOTBALL SEASON TICKETS FOR PERSON­AL USE ONLY WILL PAY WELL 2773097 WILL TRADE 2 VANDERBILT TIX FOR 2 BC OR ANY HOME GAME 2773097 FOOTBALL TICKETS NEEDED FOR OSU GAME 2 AND 2 OR 4 TICKETS TOGETHER CALL ROBT. COLLECT 216-439-2192 AFTER 4 WANTED TO BUY OHIO STATE OR WASH. VS. ND.D TIX-CALL DAVE (614)764-7355 Buying N.D .. Football Tickets, Public and Faculty Seats Call 1-800-255-2850 Will trade 4 Purdue-N.D. tkts. for 2 Texas-N.D. tkts. Call 800 572-9346 PERSONAL Student Activities is accepting applications for: Sound Techs Set Up Crew Irish Express Clerks 24 Hr. Lounge Monitors  year-R E V E R E N D FUN K is recruiting to its ministry two humans that play either TRUMPET or SAXOPHONE Must have superior experience, an attitude (no wallflowers), and a pair of dancing shoes to receive the funk injection. Make big cash playing at local parties and establishments, have fun doing what you do best, get free boarding with the band on the Interplanetary Funk Mothership, and help us spread the FUNK. To schedule a tryout (serious musi­cians only) call Dave at 288-9102. LOOK FOR REVEREND FUNK UP AND RUNNING SOON AT YOUR FAVORITE LOCAL BAR. ••WARN­ING••-PREPARE TO RECEIVE FUNKINYOURMOUF. ....................................... $5.50 HAIRCUT VITO'S BARBERSHOP 1523 LINCOLNWAY WEST SOUTH BEND 8-5-M-F 8-4-SAT. For sale-a teal backpack with let- 
Part time help at Planet Tan. Walking distance from campus. Flexible hours, $5.25 per hour. Call 277-1166 or apply in person. 2128 South Bend Ave, across from Martin's.  Teach basic conversational English in Prague, Budapest, or Krakow. No teaching certificate or European languages required. Inexpensive Room & Board + other benefits. For info. call: (206)971-3680 ext.K55842  G.A.s SEASON TICKETS G.A WANTED PLEASE HELP IF YOU CAN CALL; 273-6929 Wanted: GAs for all games, sea­son GAs. Call soon! 272-7223  N.D. FOOTBALL GA TIX BOUGHT & SOLD 232-2378 -A.M. 288-2726-P.M. NEED 2 PURDUE TICKETS!!!! PLEASE CALL X3886  Apply at 315 LaFortune between 8am-5pm. For sale-a 4 X 2 cubic feet dorm refrigerator for sale. $180, in great co ndition. one year old. Call Mary at 289-1564.  ter bottom and NO logo. Used only one year, in great shape still. $20. Call Cathy at 287-0363. welcome back, liz. you're doing an excellent job erin  

"Juesday, August 27, 1996 
The Observe~ • PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 19 
··L.SAYRES ·.: INTIIODUCES 



FOR HER 
FROM THE COLLECTION: Eau de Toilette Spray 1.7-oz., $35 Eau de Toilette Spray 3.4-oz., $45 Body Lotion 6.7-oz., $30 


FREE Gl" FOR HER 
Solid Curve Perfume Pendant and chain with any Curve for Women purchase of $35 or more. While supplies last 



------~-~----------------------------, 
page 20 The Observer • SPORTS Tuesday, August 27, 1996 
• us OPEN 

Chang struggles to defend lofty seeding 
By STEVE WILSTEIN 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK 
Michael Chang's dubious No. 2 seeding didn't make his first round any easier as the U.S. Open began Monday amid lin­gering anger over the draw, sweltering heat, and the strictest security in the tour­nament's 115-year history. 
Chang, bumped up a spot ahead of No. 2-ranked Thomas Muster, struggled to a 3-6, 6-1, 6-0, 7-6 (8-6) victory over No. 186 Jaime Oncins in a match that made the seeding commit­tee seem even sillier than it did during the unprecedented re­draw last week. 
Looking nothing like the sec­ond-best hardcourt player in the world, Chang very nearly faced a fifth-set showdown when Oncins won a disputed point to take a 6-4 lead in the tiebreaker. Chang lost the de­bate over the point, but it turned out not to matter much. Serving for the set, Oncins dou­ble-faulted, then dropped the next three points to lose the match. 
Chang dodged that potential danger, and didn't avoid the controversy over his seeding. He said he stood with the other players who objected to the de­parture from the ATP Tour rankings, even if it helped him in this tournament. Yevgeny Kafelnikov, seeded No. 7 de­spite a No. 4 ranking, pulled out in protest. 
"l don't feel they should have done that," Chang said of the seeding. "I agree with the play­ers. Yevgeny won the French, and he was great on clay, but all the players know he's a good hardcourt player, too. I think the USTA will think twice about doing this next year." 

Michael Stich spoiled the Grand Slam debut of highly re­garded German compatriot Tommy Haas 6-3, 1-6, 6-1, 7-5, then took aim at Open officials for the seeding decisions. 
"I feel it's embarrassing what happened," Stich said. "I was about to fly home tomorrow. I was about to pull out yesterday and say, 'That's it."' 
Stich was upset at the seed­ings in general, and at the way officials first indicated he would replace Kafelnikov when he pulled out, then took that spot away and gave it to Felix Mantilla. 
"They did it without notifying anybody," Stich said. "I felt it's so disrespectful to anybody playing in this tournament, that I felt I should have gone home. There are so many reasons for playing, especially spectators and the kids who come out here and want to enjoy watching tennis, that I decided to stay." 
Stich said he favored some sort of protest, "maybe not show up today, start the tour­nament tomorrow to get a stronger message through." 
Wimbledon finalist MaliVai Washington, seeded No. 11, had just as much trouble as Chang and Stich before beating Moroccan Karim Alami 6-4, 2­6, 7-6 (7-5), 6-1. Washington next plays one of the hottest players on the tour, Alex O'Brien, who beat Nicolas Lapentti of Ecuador in four sets. 
.Jim Courier, runnerup in 1991 and a semifinalist in '92 and last year, withdrew be­cause of a bruised left knee. He will be replaced in the draw by David Skoch of the Czech Republic. 
The women's draw had none of the controversy the men had, but it lost three players on the first day. 
No. 9 Mary Joe Fernandez withdrew because of tendinitis in her right wrist. She was re­placed in the draw by Tina Krizan of Slovakia. 
No. 6 Anke Huber of Germany lost 6-1, 2-6, 6-2 to Amanda Coetzer of South Africa, and Bulgarian Magdalena Maleeva, No. 12, lost 6-4, 6-2 to Poland's Aleksandra Olsza. 
Russian Anna Kournikova, coach Nick Bollettieri's latest prodigy, won her first match in Grand Slam play. The 15-year­old beat Ludmila Richeterova of the Czech Republic 7-6 (7-4), 6­3. 
Three seeded women won in straight sets -No. 13 Brenda Schultz-McCarthy, No. 14 Barbara Paulus, and No. 15 Gabriela Sabatini, the 1990 champion who showed a bit of her old form in a 6-1, 6-1 vic­tory over Patricia Hy-Boulais. 
As court temperatures soared into the 90s, scoreboards flashed warnings to fans to stay in the shade and drink plenty of fluids to ward off heatstroke. Several fans, who may not have heeded the warnings, fainted. 
Fans stood in long lines while guards inspected all bags ­including the big tennis bags of the players -at entrances to the National Tennis Center. 

Uniformed police, plain­clothes officers and security guards roamed the grounds in a show of authority exceeding even the usually high level of Wimbledon, where IRA terror­ism is an annual worry. Here, in the aftermath of the TWA 800 explosion and the Olympic pipe bomb, officials took every precaution possible. 
"I feel bad that things have come to the point where people have to give up the freedoms that they would take for grant­ed because of some perceived threat," tournament director Jay Snyder said. "But we need to reassure our public that we're doing everything we can to make sure that they are safe and secure. 
"We're taking security checks very seriously. Even I couldn't get in the locker room today because, when I put my tie on, I left my credential on my desk here. Even though they know who I am, I got stopped at the door. I said, 'I'm pleased that you're doing your job.'" 
Have something to say? Use Observer classifieds. 
Happy 21st Mary Beth! 
Save now through labor day on selected bikes and blades 
Before you start beating your brains to the point of resembling an egg souffle, get out this week and have some fun! Outpost sports has two great ways to have fun and save money at the same time. Save on all Trek, Gary Fisher, Klein, and Schwinn bikes in stock at the Outpost. In addition, this week the Outpost is featuring sale prices on selected RollerBlade brand inline skates! The weather is great and the prices are hot at Outpost sports, so head down Edison Road to Grape and make a right turn towards the Outpost Center! We've got the fun and the best prices waiting for you! 
Open Labor Day! 

Schwinn Clear Creek 
RollerBlade Macroblade 
Regularly $315 Regularly $209 
Sale Price $256 Sale Price $169 


'"! 

Tuesday, August 27, 19% 
The Observer • SPORTS page 21 
• MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBAll 
Cards top Astros to close gap Carter, Guzman help 
l\y MICHAEL A. LUTZ Andy Benes (14-9) overcame early wildness 
Jays remain on tear
A.snda1cd Press and pitched seven strong inning!?, striking out 10. 
Dennis Eckersley worked the ninth for his 23rd HOUSTON save. 
Willin MeGee hit a two-run homer and the St. Louis Cardinals tightened the NL Central race With the score 2-all, Royce Clayton singled Monday night with a 3-2 win over Houston in a home Mike Gallego with the go-ahead run in the game delaynd 10 minutes when a fan fell onto seventh inning. Mike Hampton (1 0-9) walked tlw liP-Id. Gallego, who was sacrificed to second prior to 
MeGne had just reached on an infield hit in the Clayton's hit. eighth inning when the fan appeared on the Craig Biggio's 15th home run put Houston warning track in right field. Astros center fielder ahead 1-0 in the first inning, and the Astros went Brian lluntnr and right fielder Derek Bell ran to on to load the bases on a walk to Jeff Bagwell, a assist thn fan, who did not move and was taken double by Derek Bell and a walk to Derrick May. oil' on a strntchnr. But Benes escaped without allowing another 
Thn fan's eondition was not known. run, getting Bill Spiers on a force play at the 
Thn Astros remained one-half gamn ahead of plate and retiring Orlando Miller on a liner that St. Louis in thn Nl. Central following a split of the Clayton leaped to catch at shortstop. four-ganw snrins. Tlw Cardinals lead the season Benes hit Bell with a pitch to start the third. series H-2, with thrne more games to be played Bell later scored on a single by Spiers. in St. Louis next wnek. Benes allowed live hits and walked five. 
Did you know...? 
That you could own acondominium or townhome just minutes from Notre Dame for as little as $379* per month? 

A wise inveshnentfor students, parents, alumni andfaculty. 
• 
Condominiums and townhomes as low as $56,000 

• 
Perfect for game weekends 


Beautiful waterfront settings ~~BO~ ~ ~ 
~~(i)~­

North Shore Club 
~l~s ~SH0~1.'-'

Modtls Optn Daily Sat. & Sun. 12-5 P.M. 
(219) 232-2002
(800) 404-4275 

• Monthly paymc:ncs of P. and I. based on a purchase price of$55,990 wnh 10% down and • 30-year 7.375 A.R.M. 

277-1166 

Back to School Student Specials 
1 month $29.00 
~r:..:1r 
/
20 session $39.00 


Within walking distance of ND Campus! No appointment ever needed! Must present coupon  2128 South Bend Ave., South Bend  
Exp. 9-12-96  

3508 Lincolnway East, Mishawaka 
(at Vistula) 

HOURS: Mon. -Tue. -Thur. -Fri. 10 am-6 pm • Wed. 12 pm-6 pm • Sat. 10 am-6 pm 
259-3838 
Associated Press 
TORONTO 
Joe Carter homered, drove in 
two runs and scored twice 
Monday night as the Toronto 
Blue Jays beat the Minnesota 
Twins 5-3 for their eighth win 
in nine games. 
Juan Guzman (11-8), leading 
the AL with a 3.02 ERA, shut 
out the Twins on four hits until 
the seventh inning, when a 
couple of passed balls by rookie 
Julio Mosquera helped 
Minnesota score three runs. 
Guzman struck out eight and walked none. Mike Timlin pitched the ninth for his 23rd save. 
Carter ended a 21-game homerless drought with a two­run shot in the first. Shawn Green singled with one out and Carter hit his 27th home run. 
Carlos Delgado led off the second with his 21st homer, a drive into the second deck in left. Delgado went 3-for-4. 
Carter and John Olerud hit consecutive doubles in the third for a 4-0 lead. 
Otis Nixon's RBI single in the fourth chased Brad Radke (8­
14) and gave the Blue Jays a 5­0 lead. 
Marty Cordova opened the Twins seventh with a single, went to third on Greg Myers' double and scored on a passed ball. 
Another passed ball made it 5-2, and Chuck Knoblauch added an RBI single. 
Brewers 3, White Sox 2 
CHICAGO 
Marc Newfield, Jeff Cirillo and John Jaha each hit RBI doubles as the Milwaukee Brewers beat the Chicago White Sox 3-2 Monday night. 
Cal Eldred (3-2) gave up five hits, walked one and struck out three over 5 1-3 innings. Eldred, who underwent elbow surgery in June 1995, threw 80 pitches in his lOth start since 

being activated from the dis­
abled list July 14. 
Doug Jones pitehed the last 1 
2-3 innings for his first save 
since joining the Brewers on 
July 29. 
lie gave up a double to Tony 
Phillips and walked Dave 
Martinez with two outs in the 
ninth, but retired pineh-hitter 
Lyle Mouton on a liner to sec­
ond for the final out. 
The loss was the sixth in the 
last seven games for the White 
Sox, who started the day with a 
half-game lead over Baltimore 
in the wild-card race. The 
Brewers have won eight of 
their last 11 games. 
Wilson Alvarez (14-7) scat­
tered nine hits over 7 1-3 in­
nings. 
The White Sox loaded the bases with none out in the eighth, and Tony Phillips scored from third on a wild pitch by Ron Villone. Villone then walked Hobin Ventura and Harold Baines hit a sacrifice fly. 
Jaha singled to lead off the Brewers' second and one out later Newfield hit a double to left. Acquired from San Diego for Greg Vaughn on July 31, Newfield also doubled leading ofT the fifth. 
Fernando Vina singled in the eighth and scored on Cirillo's double into the left field corner. Jaha then doubled to make it 3-0. 
Red Sox 4, Angels 1 
ANAHEIM, Calif. 

Tim Wakefield pitched a six­hitter and Mo Vaughn and Troy O'Leary homered as the Boston Red Sox beat the California Angels 4-1 Monday night for their 20th win in 26 games. 
The Red Sox, who began the season 6-19, moved two games over .500 for the first time this year. 
Wakefield (11-11) struck out five and walked one in his fifth complete game. 
• 
Challenge the Rest and Rent from the Best! 
CHALLENGER RENT TO OWN 
~------­
page 22 
•NBA 

Miller seeking more than just money 
ByHANKLOWENKRON 
Associated Press 
INDIANAPOLIS 
The agent for free agent guard Reggie Miller says he and the Indiana Pacers are not significantly apart on the issue of salary for a new con­tract. 
"The problem isn't money," agent Arn Tellem said Monday. "I'm sure we can come to an understanding on money." 
Tellem and Miller both said the major stumbling blocks to­ward a settlement are the length of the contract and an "out option" the Pacers are seeking. 
"We feel strongly that they don't need an out option. Reggie keeps himself in excel­lent shape. is in the prime of his career and carries himself as a model citizen in the com­munity," Tellem said. 
Miller denied Monday that he had issued an ultimatum seeking a $10 million contract from the Pacers. 
It was widely reported last week that Miller would be willing to sit out the 1996-97 season unless the Pacers offered him $10 million. The report stemmed from an inter­view on ESPN's "Up Close and Pessonal." 
"I don't know where the ul• timatum is coming from. I never gave the Pacers an ulti­matum." Miller said Monday in a telephone interview with WfHR-TV. "Where at all did I say, 'This is what I want,' in that interview." 
In the ESPN interview, Miller was asked if $10 million a year would produce a con­tract and he said, "If it was $10 million, 1 would sign
today.'-' 
On Monday, he said, "I never said I was going to sit out.... I said first of all, it would be unfortunate for me to sit out. Of course, if my deal is not done, I'm not going to come to training camp." 
"We've basically reached agreement on the money, We're not that far apart The two issues that are separating us is the Pacers are seeking an out after three years and want to defer payment of a percentage of the money," Tellem said in a telephone interview with The Associated Press. 

"And Reggie definitely does~ n't want to leave the Pacers. Money is not an issue. It's how it's paid. 
"All Reggie wants to do is get this behind him and concentrate on beat.ing the Chicago Bulls and winning a championship." 
"l want to finish my career with the Pacers,"· said Miller, who celebrated his 31st birth~ day last week and has been with Indiana for all nine of his NBA seasons. 
"I want a five-year deal. ... The Pacers want to give me a two-or three-year deal. ... They want an out in the con~ tract. I don't want an out." 
Donnie Walsh. the Pacers president who is negotiating the contract, said the Pacers were seeking to protect them· selves against an injury to Miller by seeking the out clause. 
"When you're talking about $9 to $10 million, the fran· chise has to have some protec· tion," Walsh told The Indianapolis Star on Monday. ''I have no feel for the negotia­tion now, I really don't.... I've dealt with Arn a long time, but the process has not been clear to me." 
Walsh said he intended to talk with team owners Herb and Mel Simon about a new contract offer. 
"They don't need an out. Most athletes want to get paid while they're playing. We're not seeking the big money that some other players have got~ ten. Reggie has been there for the P!iCers,. he's been all: active party in the community, a model citizen, an NBA All· Star, an Olympic gold medal· ist. He's been a key to the marketing of the franchise," Tellem said. 
'Tm sure this will bfl resolved. 
''I'm frequently talking with Donnie and met with Herb Simon last week. They're both people who are very fair and it's just a matter of a small difference we need to settle.'' 
Durina our biases• 
back •o school sale••• 
The more you buy,. the more 
you save! 

One week only ... from Sunday, August 25TH to Sunday, September IST. 
Take an extra $5 off_xour total purchase when you spend $20 or more. 
Take an extra $1 0 off r.our total pur­
chase when you spend $50 or more. 
Lechters Housewares 
University Park Mall 
Offer expires September Isr, /996. 
The Observer· SPORTS 
• NFL 
Dawkins ai01s for big year 
By HANK LOWENKRON 
Associated Press 
INDIANAPOLIS 
Wide receiver Sean Dawkins has led the Indianapolis Colts in receiving yards the last two years. He isn't expecting a drop-otT in production with the arrival of first-round draft pick Marvin Harrison. 
"I believe Marvin's presence will help me, not hurt me," said Dawkins, who has had 103 receptions for 1,526 yards and eight touchdowns over the past two seasons. "He's certainly a11other deep threat. The de­fense has to be aware of him, and that means less concentra­tion on me." 
Dawkins hasn't been a pri­mary target during the presea­son, making only four recep­tions for 104 yards in the team's five exhibition outings. However, two of his catches resulted in touchdowns. 
"Dawk's preseason statistics don't mean a thing," said re­ceivers coach Jimmy Robinson. "In the preseason, you try to do a lot of things, look at different players and different offensive options. 
Sean just hasn't been a pri­mary target but with the sea­son starting, I'm sure he'll play his usual prominent role in our attack." 
Dawkins echoes his coach's opinion. 
''I'm going into the season confident in my role, and confi­dent in our passing attack," he said. 
"We have a talented group of wide receivers and a quar­terback in Jimmy Harbaugh who has proven he can deliver the ball to us. 
It's our job to run the routes and catch the ball. I look for our offense to be dangerous this season because of myself, Marvin, Aaron Bailey and Brian Stablein." 

Tuesday, August 27, 1996 
Top 25 Schedule for the Week of August 31 
Thursday, Aug. 29 No. 25 Kansas vs. Ball State, 8 p.m. 
Saturday, Aug. 31 No. 2 Tennessee vs. UNLV, 7 p.m. No. 4 Florida vs. SW Louisiana, 6 p.m. No. 5 Colorado vs. Washington State, 3:30p.m. No. 8 Texas vs. Missouri, 7 p.m. No. 11 Miami at Memphis, 1:30 p.m. No. 12 Michigan vs. Illinois, 3:30p.m. No. 13 Alabama vs. Bowling Green at Birming., Ala., 3 p.m. No. 16 Auburn vs. Alabama-Birmingham, 6:30 p.m. No. 19 Brigham Young vs. Arkansas State, 9 p.m. No. 21 Kansas State vs. Texas Tech, 3:30 p.m. 

Photo courtesy of Miami Sports Information Miami tailback Danyell Ferguson and the Hurricanes will attempt to resurrect their floundering program after a subpar 1995 season. 
LASALLE BOOKSTORE 
Your source for the best in theological and philosophical books! 
Open House~ 

Friday, August 30 3-6:00p.m. 
Enjoy refreshments while you explore our unique selection of books at 237 
N. Michigan (at the corner of LaSalle and Michigan). Free parking next to the Morris Civic Auditorium. 234-0003 
Hudson's presents Clinique Bonus Days Today Through Sept. 7 '0 C:hiNIQPE ;.1J.amatk6ll'f dilferon1 mn:f.I{Jt~~·u~g lct:o(·: ,., .... ::.;....~·.· Easy Fits Easy to see why Clinique's a favourite. With travel-sized ski hair and makeup extra-specials. In a lovable little pouch.  



page 24 The Observer • SPORTS Tuesday, August 27, 1996 
Notre Dame is counting on physical play once again this season as they prepare to defend their National Championship. 
• MEN's SOCCER 

Irish fall to Marquette, 3-1 
Notre Dame counts on freshman class for help 
By BRIAN REINTHALER Sporrs Writer 
According to men's soccer coach Mike Berticelli, Notre Dame's class of 2000 ''will make an immediate contribu­tion" in the 1996 season. In light of the play in last night's 3-1 loss to Marquette at Alumni Field, the coach's words seem almost prophetic. 
Freshman forward Andrew Aris registered the only Irish goal of the evening when he di­rected i).n airborne rebound past a sprawling Kevin Coates with a header. The opportunity was created when first year de­fender Alan Woods headed a corner kick on goal in second of three thirty minute periods. The six-foot, 150-pound native of Burtonsville, Maryland was one of many freshmen who re­ceived significant playing time in the final game of a preseason which saw the Irish go 1-1. The initial contest was a 2-0 defeat of Loyola last Wednesday. 
Before last night's game, 
Recycle The Observer 

are ~ou an~lytical? 

Would you c.atl yourself detail oriented? 
~~1Wtk:: 

Berticelli included Woods on the left side of what he believes will be the starting backfield when the team opens its regu­lar season and Big East cam­paign on Saturday at Providence. Rounding out the corps of defenders are seniors Brian Engesser and Peter Gansler at sweeper and right defender. respectively and sophomore Greg Velho at goalie. 
When asked about the rest of the starting squad, Berticelli explained, "There are eleven or twelve players to choose from for seven spots." 
and talented team," Berticelli acknowledged, "that is compa­rable to the teams we will face in the (Big East) conference this season." 
Coupled with the outcome of last night's contest, Berticelli's comment appears to imply that the Irish are headed for an­other disappointing season. However, the team was not completely outplayed in a game that saw the Golden Eagles tally once against each of the three Irish goalkeepers who saw ac­tion. The blue and gold outshot Marquette 13-6 and displayed solid ball control throughout. 


make 

Hewitt Ass o c iate s is aglobal consulting firm. We are in the business of helping clients become better employers. Our services focus on the design, financing, communica­tion, and administration of human resources, benefit, and compensation plans. With over 5,500 assocf~tes In 65 locations around the world, Hewitt Associates is atrusted partner 

Over 75% qJ the Fortune 500 companies can be found to eXCi!ll~ncelmd innovation is resulting in annual 

o u r 

f i r s t move 
your b e s t 
At Hewitt Associates, youwill immediately. As afirm, we empower our teams. moment you join us, you are an associate. We possible, and you, as an associaJe, have the ability to 

We are dedIcated to valuing the diverse attribut Hewitt Associates. We see these differences as an asset creative work force. Hewitt Associates is currently listed Companies To Work For In America and The Best Con?PBI1iesto. 
Entry I eve I positions are available in six of our 
o 
Atlanta, GA 0 Newport Beach, 0 Bedminster, NJ o Rowayton, CT 

o 
Lincolnshire, IL o Th~Woodl 



Students with the following majors have traditionally been successful in our organization: Computer Science, MIS, Accounting, Actuarial Science, Economics, Finance, or Math. 
Hewitt Associates LLC · 
l996 Men's Soccer Schedule 
'AUGUST  '"''ocTOBER  
11 '31 Providence  :~~: 1 Western Michigan 
SEPTEMBER  ······. 5 Syracuse  
3 NORTHWESTERN  J1 WESTERN ILLINOIS  
1 STJOHN'S  13 PITTSBURGH  
•··1 0 VALPARASIO  18 Rutgers 
;,J 3 WEST VIRGINIA  20 Villanova  
16 DePaul  23 Georgetown  
20 CONNECTICUT  31 WISCONSIN  
22 SETON HALL  NOVEMBER  
27 Indiana  3 Boston Colleoe  
Home ~ames in CAPS  

1996 Women's Soccer Schedule 
AUGUST 31 Providence SEPTEMBER 1 Boston College 6WISCONSIN 8WASHINGTON 12 Michigan State 151NDIANA 20St. John's 22 Connecticut 27 MARQUETTE 29 GEORGETOWN 
OCTOBER 4 North Carolina 
5 Duke 11 Stanford 13 Santa Clara 
20 RUTGERS 25 WEST VIRGINIA 27 SETON HALL 
NOVEMBER 1 OHIO STATE 3 VILLANOVA 

Home Games in CAPS 
0 100 Half Day Road
I 

We will be interviewing on campus Sept. 30-0ct. 2, 1996. 
Lincolnshire, IL 60069 
0 

(847) 295-5000
Hewitt Associates 
• 

http:/ /www.hewittassoc.corn 
Helping Clients Around The World Improve Business Results Through People 
Tuesday, August 27, 1996 
The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 25 

Mishawaka: Indian Ridge Plaza, Grape Road and Indian Toll Road (south of University Mall). Open Monday-Saturday, 9:304M-9:30PM; Sunday, f2-6PM 
~ 
I 
I 
t
. 
' 
page 26 

\ 
1996-97 Men's Basketball Schedule NOVEMBER 
24 MONMOUTH 26 YOUNGSTOWN ST DECEMBER 
2 INDIANA 
7 Providence 1 0 NEW HAMPSHIRE 14 Kentucky 21 LOYOLA (MD) 23 NICHOLLS STATE 30 Loyola (Chi.) JANUARY 
2 SYRACUSE :;'4 Rutgers 
Z,,,. Georgetown 11 BOSTON COLLEGE 14 VILLANOVA 18 Syracuse 22 SETON HALL 25 West Virginia 29 Pittsburgh 
FEBRUARY 5 ST. JOHN'S 8 CONNECTICUT 
11 WEST VIRGINIA 16 Villanova 18 Seton Hall 22 PROVIDENCE 25 MIAMI MARCH 
1 Boston College 5 Big East Tournament 
Home Games in CAPS 



Tickets on sale at the LaFortune Student Center Information Desk 
Gottlieb 
continued from page 32 
son. At the close of the year, a series of cumulative events led to his departure. 
"He had mentioned transfer from time to time during his freshman year so it wasn't a to­tal surprise," MacLeod said. 
Still. the news caught MacLeod somewhat off guard. 
"It was a bit of a surprise," MacLeod added. "It was not out of the blue though, because he had mentioned it before." 
Gottlieb knows the conse­quences of his decision, but be­lieved he was acting in the best interests of his athletic future. 
''I'm leaving a lot behind, but it's just the way things work sometimes," he said. 'Til miss student life and the comraderie on the team, but sometimes you just have to move on." 
The sophomore-to-be will be moving on for two major rea­sons. Gottlieb never quite made the transition to living so far away from California. In addition, Gottlieb thought some aspects of the Irish style did not mesh with his ability to pass and lead the fast break. 
"(t wasn't really one big thing," he said. "I had some difficulty being away from home. There were also certain things about the way we played that were a factor." 
"He expressed a concern to go back and be close to home," MacLeod said. 
Eventually, the feeling of be­ing homesick might have went 
Friday, August 30 
eaturing: 

J.B. Smoove 
~ 

$3 for students $5 for non-students 
~\.f!»' 
The Observer· SPORTS 
away, but the feeling that 
Gottlieb belonged in a Notre 
Dame uniform could not be 
reconciled. 
"The things I do best are in 
the open court," he said. "Ire­
ally want to play in an up­
tempo program and play with 
some athletes. It's nothing 
against the guys there. They're 
going to have a good team this 
year. But I hope to be the focal 
point of the offense. Not that I 
have to go out and score 20 
points a night to be happy, but 
somewhere I can make a lot of 
things happen." 
With Gottlieb's transfer, in­
coming freshman David 
Lalazarian is now forced to 
play without his former high 
school teammate. 
"I don't really know why he 
did it," Lalazarian said. "He 
told me he was thinking about 
it ·for a while. He's got to do 
what's best for him and all I 
can do is wish him the best." 
As for this year, Gottlieb will 
practice with the junior college 
team while taking recruiting 
trips to various schools. As of 
Sunday, Gottlieb had lined up 
visits to UCLA, Cincinnatti, 
Alabama, and South Florida. 
Gottlieb departs, hoping to 
make more of a contribution at 
possibly one of those schools, 
but maintains he has no hard 
feelings towards Notre Dame. 
"How could you not feel good 
about having been at a place 
like Notre Dame," Gottlieb said. 
"Leaving it behind is tough, but 
I still feel like a part of me is 
still there." 
• Lalazarian and others still wish all of him was still here. 
USED FURNITURE 

Store Hours Monday -Saturday 
#288-2539 

9:00 a.m. -6:00 p.m. 

Washington Hall at8pm Sponsored By: Student Activities 
Student Union Board 
The Observer/Rob Finch Guard Doug Gottlieb elected to move back closer to home after having trouble adjusting to college life at Notre Dame. 
Hours 
Lunch 
Mon-Fri llam-2pm 
Dinner 
Mon-Thu, Sun Spm-9pni 
Fri-Sat Spm-9:30pm 

211 0 L
-+--=--.A 
R E s T A u R A N T c 
N. MAIN 

s
THAI 
0 
ST. 

A
L 

L
"The first Thai restaurant in town. We F 
L
invite you to try world class ~ cuisine, Thai cuisine, the delicate art G~'-~ o:,~ · E that descends from primogenitor. Thai V..\C'0~ cuisine is designed to excite your five senses; sweet, sour, salty, spicy, and 1232-4445 I natural." 211 N. Main St. 
South Bend, IN 

Now Hiring 46601 
FITNESS SCHEDULE FALL, 1996 JQYCE CENTER CLASSES 1 4:05-5:05 STEP Gym 1 MIW $25 2 4:05-5:05 Hi Intensity Gym2 MIW $20 3 5:20-6:20 STEP Gym 1 MIW $25 4 5:20-6:20 Flex & Tone Gym2 MIW $20 5 3:45-4:45 STEP Gym 1 Tffh $20 6 3:45-4:45 Hi Intensity Gym2 Tffh $20 7 5:30-6:30 STEP Gym 1 Tffh $25 8 5:30-6:30 Lo Impact Gym2 Tffh $20 RQCKNE CLASSES 9 6:30-7:15 am STEP 301 MIWIF $30 10 12:15-12:45 STEP 301 MIWIF $25 11 4:05-5:05 STEP 301 MIWIF $35 12 5:20-6:20 STEP 301 MIW $25 13 9:00-10:00 Cardio Combo 301 MIW $20 14 7:30-8:30 am AeroStep 301 Tffh $25 15 12:15-12:45 Flex & Tone 301 Tffh $20 16 3:45-4:45 STEP 301 Tffh $25 17 5:20-6:20 STEP 301 Tffh $25 18 5:20-6:20 STEP 301 F $12 19 4:00-5:00 STEP 301 Su $12 20 5:15-5:45 AIIAbs 301 Su $12 21 6:00-7:00 Hi Intensity 301 Su $12 RQL[S CLASSES 22 12:15-12:45 Aquacise MIWIF $20 23 6:45-7:45 Aquacise Tffh $20 Begin the school year right by adding physical activity to your daily routine!Use the fitness classes to help maintain your wight, boost your self-confidence given you a work/study break and help manage stress. Sign-ups begin Thursday ,August 29,  

__......._-~--~--------------------~~-~

The Observer/Rob Finch 
Irish head coach John Macleod will have to try to find a new point guard this season after hearing the news of Doug Gottlieb's transfer. 

Happy Birthday 
AmyK.! 
8-10-96 
Love, Mom, Dad, Bryan, Kevin, Cbucky, and Benny 
The Observer • SPORTS 
Insight 
continued from page 32 
Bell, were part of a prized Irish recruiting class last year and Gottlieb proved to be at the head of that class. 
At least last year he did. 
One can only think he would have gotten better. Unfortunately, that progresswill now have to be monitored by the Irish fans who enjoy viewing the glass as half empty. 
The others will just write it off as one that got away and moved on. That's what Gottlieb said he had to do. Still, it's nec­essary to give the student body who show up at the games the proper time to mourn. 
So if you're walking down the quad on the eve of Midnight Madness and the Irish faithful are holding a candlelight vigil with the No. 44 in the middle, light one yourself and then promptly call security. 
All right, Doug Gottlieb was not the person who was going to save Notre Dame basketball. You've got to shoot above 34 percent before being annointed savior. Gottlieb was also some­what arrogant. Anyone who said the best part about Notre Dame joining the Big East was that all the girls on the east coast could see him play can be labeled as a little cocky. 
Nothing, however, can com­pare to those California girls in Gottlieb's mind. Citing an affin­ity for being at home and a desire to play in a more west­cost oriented offense, Gottlieb headed for what he thinks are greener pastures. 
It doesn't matter if Gottlieb's father, who is rumored to have been a major influence in this decision, put this idea in his head or if it was truly Gottlieb's decision. The only thing that matters is that the basketball program has to now absorb another blow. 
Listening to the obscure rea­sons the transfer occurred, you can only wonder if something could have prevented it. And wondering is all you can do. Doug Gottlieb can go to wher­ever school he wants to. You just have to wish him the best and hope he finds what he's looking for. 
For reasons that aren't very clear, he wasn't able to locate it at Notre Dame. 
He says he will miss the school a lot, but obviously the grief must be bearable. 
"I'd like to come back and play in the JACC one more time," Gottlieb said. 
Problem is, that return will mean he's leading another team down the court on the break. Maybe his personality was a bit brash and maybe he had no touch from the free­throw line, but the fact remains that Notre Dame was a better bas­ketball team with Doug Gottlieb on it. 
One aspect Gottlieb brought to Notre Dame basketball was excitement. During one home game last year, the JACC crowd was in its usual dormant state 
page 27 

After receiving an outlet pass, Gottlieb took the ball down court, looked off a defender and proceeded to throw a per­fect lob pass to Pat Garrity. The thunderous slam brought the crowd out of their seats and for a second, probably had Gottlieb believing he did belong here. 
Guess there just weren't enough of those plays for him to stay. 
Other Irish guards have the ability to step up and now must in Gottlieb's absence. 
It's fairly certain Notre Dame will rebound without Gottlieb. Basketball life will go on in South Bend. Maybe with a little less flavor, but it will go on. 
This too shall pass. Just without Doug Gottlieb doing the passing anymore. 

Senior point guard Admore White should take on
until Gottlieb 

a bigger role in the upcoming season now that
went to work. 

Doug Gottlieb has taken his act to California. 
Intercollegiate Competition Women to become Varsity in the Fall of 1.998 Men medaled at prestigious regattas in south and east last year Nationwide travel 

Informational Meeting 
Monday, September 2nd 118 Nieuwland Science Hall at 8:00 pm 
Varsity Rowers and any other experienced rowers/coxswains should attend organizational meeting on Tuesday, August 27th at 8:00 pm in 118 Nieuwland Science Hall 
• 



I~ ~-~----·-~ 
~ 

r I 
I 
I 
page 28 
• VOllEYBAll 


...a_~§_ 
~~ 
WELCOME BACK ND STUDENTS! 
The area's hottest, most progressive Dance Club invites you to join us Thursdays for S.I.N. Fridays for Student Night (No Cover with valid ID) Et Saturdays for the Ultimate Party 
etJ~ t# 9:00fuN­~Ut-tk Sta&.e ~eatk 100 ~ ~ 
CHEAP 

Furniture! 
.. 

Tuesday, August 27, 1996
The Observer • SPORTS 

1996 Women's Volleyball Schedule 
AUGUST 8111inois State 30 CENTRAL FLORIDA 11 PROVIDENCE 31 TOLEDO 13 BOSTON COLLEGE 31 SOUTH CAROLINA 19 West VirginiaSEPTEMBER 22 Cal-St. Northridge 
4STANFORD 24 Hawaii 6LOUISVILLE 25 Hawaii 7KENTUCKY NOVEMBER ?INDIANA 2Pittsburgh 
13 Penn State 3Syracuse 14 TBA 8RUTGERS 20 Michigan 9GEORGE MASON 21 PURDUE 10 SETON HALL 27 ALUMNAE GAME 16 Connecticut OCTOBER 17 St. John's 
1BALL STATE 23 Big East 4GEORGETOWN 29 Washington State 6VILLANOVA 30 TBA 
Home Games in CAPS 

Buy an IBM PC 340 or 350 reference software. Buy a ThinkPad and you'll get desktop computer and an Windows 95 and Lotus Smartsuite. You can also take IBM Multimedia Kit. And advantage of special student, faculty and staff financing. you'll get a CD software Just caii1-800-41BM-LOAN for information. Hurry, visit 
package that includes Windows 95, Lotus SmartSuite, your campus computer store Netscape Navigator, World Book Multimedia today. After all, no one looks ----­
-----,_®

Encyclopedia and the lnfopedia collection of essential good in acheckered apron. ----­
IBM and ThinkPad are registered trademarks of International Business Machines Corporation. Windows is aregistered trademark of Microsoft Corporation. Other company, product or service names may be trademarks or service marks of others. ©1996 IBM Corp:. All rlghts reserved. 
~~---~-----------~-----~-------------------~ 
page 29 The Observer· SPORTS Tuesday, August 27, 1996 
• NOTRE DAME fOOTBAll 
Potentially potent offense ready for Notre Dame 
By TIM SHERMAN 
Sports Editor 
Never has a word with as op­timistic of a denotation as the word "potential" carried such a nllgative connotation in the world of sports. 
In fact, blling labeled with the phrasn of "having potential" can oft1m he quite dangerous. 
Thn denotation expresses only positivll eoneepts such as promise and tlw ability to grow and improve. However, all too oftnn, the word has been cou­pled with thn "failure to live up to" tag. 
The extremely lofty expeeta­tions that often accompany someone "with potential" fre­quently make it impossible to achieve all that is expected. 
And in as high of a profile program as Notre Dame foot­ball, potential is nven more charged, as intense media and fan interest is a combustible combination. 
Quarterback Hon Powlus is the epitome of the danger and downfall of "potential". 
Thtl senior is already second on the Irish all-time list for touchdown passes (31 to Rick Mirer's 41) and has finished both of his seasons as starting quarterback with a top 20 na­tional passing efficiency rating. Yet from nearly all accounts, including his own, his career has not lived up to its immense billing. 
Yet he is not the only member of the currllnt senior members of the offense with such a dilemma, he is just the most celebratnd. 
From Randy Kinder and of." Robert Farmer to Mike Doughty With Emmett Mosley proba­and Chris Clevenger, the Class bly entrenched in one spot as a of 1997. though few in number .starter, it is sophomore Autry (15 remaining scholarship play-Denson who is making a push ers) has been burdened for for the other slot. three years with hopes of only a Not too surprisingly, Holtz national championship. decided to make the move with 
Time is running out. In fact, Denson early on in fall camp. the time frame has now been "Autry Denson is a very good reduced to 12 games. talent and he's an excellent 
But the faet remains, there is running back but we're going good reason to to play him at be confident -wide receiver potentially. 'pootball is a team right now," Holtz 
"I think we game. It's we, not said. "He w~ll can go out and , play some tall-win twelve me. I JUSt want to do back but he will 
games," Powlus whatever makes us be a wide receiv­offered after er" Friday's scrim-work best as a team. considering 
mage. "WeThe botton line is I just Denson's consid­have a good t t 1 d · , erable success group of guys." wan °p ay an wm. last year in his And while debut season at Powlus and his Autry Denson tailback, some cIa s s mates would question 
comprise the his willingness to most important segment of that make the move. However, the group (at least 7 offensive Florida native's desire to win starters), the variables in the makes that a moot point. 
run for a national title are the "Football is a team game," underclassmen. Denson said. "It's we, not me. 
In particular, the sophomores I just want to do whatever and juniors who must step for-makes us work best as a team. ward at the wide receiver posi-The bottom line is I just want to tion will likely determine the play and win." success of the 1996 Notre With Mosley as a very capa-Dame offense. ble possession receiver, Denson 
"I think if we can develop a will be counted on to provide wide receiver, I think we'll be more of a deep threat. very, very good," Irish coach Although he lacks blazing Holtz. speed, Denson should give de­
"1 think we have a chance of fenses something to think being good on offense but it about. depends on the ability to beat ''I'm comfortable catching the man coverage because that's deep ball," he said. "Catching we are going to see an awful lot has always come naturally." 
But look for Denson to also be dangerous on quick hitting passes out into the flat. 
During last Friday's scrim­mage, the 5-foot-10, 189-pound Denson was an essential part of the short passing attack that is being termed the "Blarney" offense by Holtz. 
Do not expect the Irish to abandon the ground in favor of a Florida Gator "Fun n' Gun"­type offense. Rather, a more controlled short passing game will be implemented to best uti­lize Powlus' talents. 
"Ron Powlus has had an ex­cellent fall camp and is per­fectly healthy," Holtz stated confidently. "If he stays healthy, he will have an out­standing year." 
Much has been said about Powlus' weight but the fact is that he is very close to his play­ing weight of last season. 
Judging by the scrimmage, his mobility has actually im­proved, as he looked very com­fortable on the roll-out. 
Powlus will never have the ability to run the option like Holtz' prototype signal caller but he will direct one of the na­tion's best running attacks. 
Surely, the success of any ground game is dictated by the offensive line and this Irish squad is no different. 
Fortunately for Holtz, that line is a very experienced and capable line. 
Four of the projected five starters (tackles Doughty and Clevenger, guard Jeremy Akers and center Rick Kaczenski) has seen extensive starting assign­ment and the fifth, guard Mike Rosenthal, is possibly the most talented among them. 

The senior triumvirate of Marc Edwards, Randy Kinder and Robert Farmer will take full advantage of any and all holes. 
Edwards proved last season that he is fully capable of carry­ing on the long line of great Irish fullbacks, averaging 98 yards per game in total offense. 
Kinder, though often troubled off the field, has shown in his three years that when he is in the game, he is a very talented individual who is capable of breaking the big one every time he touches the ball. 
Farmer, too, has the speed to turn the corner and has come off spring knee surgery with a great fall practice. It is his emergence that gave Holtz the ability to switch Denson out to the receiver spot. 
It is this change which may prove to be just what Notre Dame's offense needs to be­come a complete threat. 
"We have always had a good offense," Holtz said. "It is very good now but what I want to be is a great offensive football team. Can we utilize the tal­ents and ability of everybody including Ron? The offense line had done some very good things and will be a better offensive line? 
Potentially. But at least there is confi­dence. 
"Potential hasn't won a na­tional championship yet," said Denson. "Producing results is what wins. I think we have a team that will produce results." 
Come armed with your favorite joke and enter The Great American Joke Off Contest 
and win great prizes every 1st and 3rd Wednesday monthly -Sponsored by 
~~~ 

The Landing with Sunday Brunch for two as first prizel 
123 w. washington, Suite 200 
South Bend (Above BW-3) 
llrnrnle 

SHOWTIMES 
, Walker Six Shows Every week DYN-0-fMfTE" Wednesday -Thursday 8 pm Friday -Saturday 8 & 10:30 pm doors open at 7 pm 
(or information and reservations 
(?.JJ~)232-7777 
r--------------,
. r----------~---,r----------~---,r--~-----------,
:Campus Night:: Campus Night: :campus Night: :campus Night: : $4 cover : : $4 cover :1 $4 cover 1 1 $4 cover 1 
1 (with this coupon) I (wlrh this coupon) I (with this coupon) I I (wlrh this coupon) I 
1Wednesday and Thursday 1: Wednesday and Thursday: :wednesday and Thursday: :wednesday and Thursday: I II II II I 
1Not valid with any other promo-11Not valid with any other promo-Not valid with any other pro-Not valid with any other pro­
1 1 1 1 1
1tlon or special engagement 1 1tion or special engagement 1 1motlon or special engagement 1 1motion or special engagement 1 I expires 9/27/961 I expires 9/27/961 I expires 9/27/961 I expires 9/27/961
L--------------~L--------------~L--------------~L--------------~ 
.. 
.,. 

---~----~ -~ -~ ~-------­
------------------------~---------­
Half Mile Swim & 2 Mile Run Register in Advance at RecSports Varsity -Team & Individual Non-Varsity -Team & Individual 
(Men's, Women's & Mixed in both Divisions) 

-· 
.. 
Tuesday, August 27, 1996
page 30 The Observer • SPORTS 
knows what it takes to win. That is the kind of attitude that
Coyne 

we needed as a young team 
"Notre Dame was by far the most professional of the schools I interviewed with," said Coyne. "The stature of the university a•ong with people I met with were really impressive. That is what probably interested me the most." 
Coyne will meet with the players for the first time on Sunday. She is looking forward to the opportunity to work with the group that fought hard to bring varsity status to the sport. 
"I really want to get to know them since they had to really struggle to attain what they did," said Coyne. "The kids who stuck by the sport should get the first chance to show what they can do." 
Added Pierce, "We've heard that she's tough, and that's what we need here. We need some work on our skills and our attacking. She's upbeat about corning in here, so that should help us in those areas." 
With the proper leadership in place, the new era has begun. 

The Observer Sports Department is seeking anyone interested in writing and copy editing. 
Stop by 314 LaFortune, or call Tim Sherman, Sports Editor, at 1-4543 
Last Chancel 
Fulbriah-t Compe-ti-tion I 997-98 
Attention current Seniors!!!!! 
If you are interested in graduate study and research abroad, don't miss the informa­tional meeting 
Thursday, August 29 
7:00pm 

126 DeBartolo with Professor Alain Toumayan, Advisor 
JAZ~MANS 
NITE CLUB 
DOORS OPEN 4 PM 525HILLSTREET 
l)J-BSOS
FREE FOOD S-7 PM MON-SAT 

. -~  I  TUESDAY'S  WEDNESDAY'S  
PENNY NIGHT  HOOK-UP NIGHT  LADIES NIGHT  
and DJ'S OPEN  and PENNY  ALL LADIES DMITTED FREE  
SPECIALS NIGH  NIGHT  BEFORE MIDNIGHT.  

Daily events and specials at South Bend's only multi-level night club -whe(e ityou don't like what's on one floor you can go party on the next level. Large dance floors on both levels. DJ's 6 nights-live entertainment on one leve/3 nights. $1.00 cover Wed-Sat before 11 pm; 112 price cover Man & Tue before 10 pm. 
THURSDAY'S FRIDAY'S 

SATURDAY'S COLLEGE PARTY MENS NIGHT 
PARTY NIGH 
ALL CUSTOMERS IN SHORTS OR 
ALL MEN 

ADMITrED FREE 
MINI-SKIRTS

BEFORE 11 PM. FREE ADMISSION TO ANYONE WEAR­
ADMITTED FREE 

lNG A TOOL POUCH 
BEFORE 11 PM 



continued from page 32 
in Ohio. During the two sea­sons, she compiled a 23-5 record and captured two straight North Coast Athletic Conference titles. 
"She is the best person we could have here to come and start the program," said Pierce. "She knows the game well and without a lot of experience." 

As a player, Coyne guided the Ohio squad to the 1982 Midwest Regional champi­onship and an eighth-place fin­ish at AIAW National Lacrosse Championships. She first broke into the coaching ranks in 1987 when she served as an assistant coach at William Smith College in New York. 

Irish attacker Margaret Cholis hopes to benefit from the new, aggres­sive style of play that head coach Tracy Coyne will utilize in her first season at the helm of the brand new varsity sport. 
iNDIANA UNIVERSITY 
SOUTH BEND 
CO~GEDUCATION 
GMAT,GRE, LSAT REVIEWS 
• 
Strategies for attacking individual questions and the test as a whole 

• 
Official diagnostic and practice exams with actual test questions 

• 
Homework modules to reinforce what you learn in class 

• 
Vital emphasis on analytical, logical and critical reasoning skills 

• 
On exam day, you'll be more confident and less prone to test anxiety 


GMATReview Mondays, Sept. 11-0ct. 9, 

PLEASE NOTE:
6:30-10:30 p.m. at IUSB. $295. Exam date: Oct. 19. 

Both the GRE and LSAT require analytical and 
GRE Review 

logical reasoning. Since the
Mondays and Thursdays, 

undergraduate experience 
Sept. 16-0ct. 3, 6:30-10:30 p.m. at IUSB. $349. 

provides little exposure to Exam date: Oct. 12. 
these kinds of thought processes, a review course 
LSAT Review Mondays, Tuesdays, Thursdays, 

is almost essential to exam Sept. 16-0ct. 1,6:30-10:30 p.m. 
success. at IUSB. $249. Exam date: Oct. 5. 

To register, or more information, call IUSB Continuing Education at 237-4261 

631-4557. 

Tuesday, August 27, 1996 
The Observer • TODAY MIXED MEDIA JACK OHMAN 

j PuNKRo~J 

MOTHER GOOSE & GRIMM MIKE PETERS 


• OF INTEREST 

Student Government officers can the Student Government office, on the LaFortune Student Center, at the numbers: Seth Miller. student 4555: Megan Murray, student 

Make checks payable to: 
The Observer 
and mail to: 

Published Monday through Friday, The Observer D Enclosed is $70 for one academic yearis a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's D Enclosed is $40 for one semesterCommunity. 
Name __________________________________________________ Join the more than 13,000 readers who have 
Address _________________________________________ 
found The Observer an indispensible link to the 
City--------------State _____ Zip._______________
two campuses. Please complete the accompany­ing form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Puzzle by Ell Weootl 
11 Stereo part 42 "I am justly kill'd 48 Celebrity 21 Party d.ivider on with mine own 53 1946 Literature the Hill treachery" 
Nobelist 26 Tractor, slangily 58 Jan Smuts, for 
speaker 44 Sounds of San

27 J.F.K. info one
Francisco

29 Long Island 57SURP!)Se
45 Hide area 58 This, to Juan
46Panacea,32 Composer of "II maybe eo Use a shuttle 

Tigrane" 34Ancient Mariner, surely 
Answers to any three clues in this puzzle 36 Evil lead-in 

are available by touch-tone phone: 36 Steel ingredient 1-900-42Q-5656 (75¢ per minute). 38 Eur. inits. until 
Annual subscriptions are available for the 1806 
best of Sunday crosswords from the last 40 Kind of kitten 50 years: (800) 762-1665. 
page 31 

HOROSCOPE JEANE DIXON 
HAPPY BIRTHDAYl IN THE NEXT YEAR OF YOUR UFE: Lessons learned In the past come In handy. A busy September pre­pares you for an even more hectic October. Build a solid financial base ste!H>y-step. Public recogni­tion Is featured as Christmas appr.oaches, Seize an opportunity to prove your Independence. Your love life accelerates as 1997 gets underway. Next spring will produce superior career or finan­cial gains. Plan a special trip for midsummer. A wedding should bring widespread joy. CELEBRITIFS BORN ON THIS DAY: actress Marlee Matlin, baseball great Cal Rlpken Jr., actor Steve Guttenberg, boxer Gerry Cooney. ARIES (March 21-Aprll 19): Keep business corrsepondence up to date. You can catch costly errors by checking the work done by a subordinate or partner. A combatant attitude wUI only has­ten the end of a relationship. TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Rushing Into an unknown area will not work to your advantage. Your Interest In poetry and literature grows, enriching your life. Carry out a plan that has been approved by higher-ups. GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Taking a radical approach will boomerang. Stick· to tried-and­true methods to get ahead. Financial problems cannot be solved by gambling or taking risky shortcuts. CANCER (June 21-July 22): Recognition for past efforts brings fame and fortune. You are In an enviable position. Wield your new power subtly. Avoid taking others for granted. LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Discard grandiose plans In favor of some­thing more practical. A change In plans could mean more money for you. Good health Is tied to your wllllngness to exercise and eat 
The News Department of The Observer 
is looking for people interested in copy editing and/or writing. 
If interested, contact Brad Prendergast at 1-5323 
The Observer 
P.O. BoxQ Notre Dame, IN 46556 
right. VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Better coordlnatloh ol your social and business activities will give you more time for yourself. Purchase household appliances that will help you save time. Regular exercise proves rejuvenat­Ing. LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 2?): A good morning to exchange Ideas and opinions. You may have to exert pressure In order to get 11 project approved. Although work­Ing overtime Is necessary, the rewards will be significant. SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Do not underestimate your worth; others will flnd It out In due time. 'v our ability to take action on short noilce helps you cash In on a golden business opportunity. SAGmARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Cut yourself loose from peo­ple who do not share your goals. Mingle with VIPs; they will like your style. Contacting someone faraway or socializing with new­comers ensures a pleasurable evening. CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Avoid taking out a loan ll you can flnd another way to reducl'. month­ly payments. A tough business decision will benefit you In the long run. Be skeptical of promises made by new acquaintances. AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Still waters run deep. Move for­ward with caution. Your plans lor repairing or enlarging your home show others how Innovative you can be. Get out of a rut by social­Izing this evening. Dress to Impress. PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): If a relationship has soured, focus on problems you can fix Instead of blaming others. Friends with good business sense offer advice. Follow It and you will prosper. Find someone to finish what you started. 

• 
.. 
-
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS t Polaroid 5 Against: Abbr. 8 Original 14 Points on a math test? 15 Three times, in prescriptions 18 Rings 11 Drink for Captain Midnight tt Kind of car 20 Hairline feature 22 Do a teamster's job 23 Nice time of year 24 Friend abroad 25 Prefix with skeleton a Rotating engine piece 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
28 Secure for a 
cause 30 Agonize (over) 31 Nobleman, 
informally 33 Bender, of a 
sort 35 Detectives 37 Chipped stones 
of archeological interest 41 Soviet cooperative 
43ldolize 
44 "Dark Lady" singer 
47 Game of which black lady is a variation 
4t Familiar appellation for a cowpuncher 
50 Take it easy 
51 Knife, in old dialect 
52 Utterance of mockery 
54 Last leader of Communist Albania 
55 Aluminous 
mineral 59 Abutting 81 Sweetie pies 
82 It superseded 
the lute 63 Flock member 84 Candlemaker's 
supply 
85 Coca-Cola introduction of 1961 
88 The elder: Abbr. 87 Comic Austen work 
DOWN 
1 Dense 
2-Sad (Yugoslavia's second-largest city) 
3Collegedom 4 Mark Twain was one. 
5Colonial pamphleteer James 
6 Man of letters? 1 One in an incubator 1 River steamer 
• Transfer-­10 Up on things 11 Horror film 
figure 12 Refer 
concealment 


• BASKETBAll 
Starting point guard decides to transfer 
By JOE VILLINSKI Associate Sports Editor 
The Notre Dame men's bas­ketball team suffered a setback this past summer when point guard Doug Gottlieb transfered from the university. 
Gottlieb told head coach John MacLeod in June of his final decision to leave the university after his freshman year. Gottlieb will now attend Golden West Junior College near his home in Tustin, California. 
"At the end of the year, I sat down with coach (MacLeod} to see if I was happy," Gottlieb said from his home on Sunday. "I came to the decision that it would be better for me not to come back this year." 
Last year, Gottlieb played the second most number of min­utes behind forward Pat Garrity. While not a veritable scoring threat, Gottlieb pos­sessed superb court vision as he finished fourth in the Big

• 
East in assists with 5. 7 per game. 
Despite a solid first year, Gottlieb had entertained thoughts of a transfer last sea-
see GOTTLIEB I page 26 


SPORTS 

page 32 Tuesday, August 27, 1996 
• IRISH INSIGHT 
Notre Dame will miss talented playmaker 

O
ver the summer, Doug Gottlieb decided to pass on his next three years at Notre Dame. 
Of all the ones he threw last season, it 
.-----------~ was the last pass Irish fans wanted to see him make. It still remains to be seen if the official scor­er credits Joe Villinski Gottlieb with Associate Sports a turnover. Editor 
This whole scenario is frustrating because of the promise this freshman displayed last season. Gottlieb's court vision was uncanny and his skill to dish it off on the fast break went a long way in showing that the Irish could compete on the Big East level. 
Gottlieb, along with Gary 
see INSIGHT I page 27 
Good-bye Gottlieb 
• WOMEN'S lACROSSE 

Notre Dame tries luck with Coyne 
By MIKE DAY 
Assistant Sports Edi ror 

The meteoric rise continues for the Notre Dame ·women's lacrosse team. First, as a result of a strong proposal and the determination of a few girls, the sport attained varsity status last spring. Now, the program 
-
-

will begin the new era with the highly sought after Tracy Coyne at its helm. 
This summer, the Notre Dame Athletic department showed that it is serious about its newest varsity sport, snatching the veteran coach from the likes of Ohio State and James Madison University. 
"The challenge of starting a program at a sehool like Notre Dame really interested me," said Coyne. "Women's lacrosse has really beeome a popular sport to add, so I am looking forward to seeing it grow and reach the goals we have set for it." 
Coyne comes to Notre Dame with an impressive resume, having compiled a 114-26 mark during her nine seasons as a head eoach. During her latest employment with Roanoke College in Virginia, she posted a .813 winning percentage and reached the NCAA Division III tournament five times. 
"We're very excited that she is coming here, and we're looking forward to playing for her," said attack­er Tracy Pierce. "She has a lot of experience and has been a winner. That's what we need here to get the program going." 
The 36-year-old graduate of Ohio University also served as an assistant coach for the United States women's lacrosse team in 1992 and as a selector for the team on three occasions. 
"She has a lot of experience, and that is what we need as we move on to the varsity level," said Pierce. "They (the athletic department} asked us what we wanted, and we said someone with a lot of experience and enthusiasm. She met both qualities very well." 
Prior to Roanoke, Coyne performed the dual role of lacrosse and field hockey eoach at Denison University 
see COYNE I page 26 


The Observer/Mike Ruma See page 29 for the first in a four part series previewing the 1996 Irish football squad. Part one features the out­look of Ron Powlus and the offense he will direct. 

• Men's soccer squad falls 3-1 Men's Soccer Football 
see page 24
at Providence, August 31 at Vanderbilt, September 5 
12:00 p.m. 
7:30p.m. 

• Miller, Pacers get closer to deal VolleyballWomen's Soccer 
vs. Central Florida, August 30 
see page 22 
at Providence, August 31 7:00p.m. 
2:00p.m. 
• Chang avoids upset at U.S. Open see page 20 





