

Friday, March 8, 1996 • Vol. XXVII No. 106 THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Timm forsees no recognition for GLND/SMC 
By MAUREEN HURLEY 
Saint Mary's Nrws Ediwr 
and CAROLINE BLUM 
S.,int Mary's Editor 
As tlw Univ1~rsity of Notre Damn rnlnasod the final roc­omnumdations of the Ad lloe Committnn on Gay and Losbian Studnnt Nnnds, the Saint Mary's community remained waiting for action from its own administration. 
Linda Timrn, vice presidont for studnnt affairs. stated she could not confirm at press time wlwtlwr a similar study will bn pursued in cornmittne by Saint Mary's. 
With regard to the Ad IIoc recommendations, Timm said, "The report was by Notre Dame. It doesn't have anything to do with us." 
Goorgeanna Hosenbush, di­rector of student activities, concurs. "This report has no effect on Saint Mary's. We're two different institutions," she said. 
However, some Saint Mary's community members disagree. 
Max Westler, associate pro­fessor of English and member of People in Support (PinS), a support group for lesbians at Saint Mary's, said, "We need to address the question: for the College as a whole, what does !the Ad lloe) report suggest about what needs to be done at Saint Mary's?" 
Furthermore, Westler criti­cized the administration, stat­
'{think the adminis­
tration has had a chance to sit back and watch everything hap­pen at Notre Dame. This report brings about a time when Saint Mary's needs to take a position on their own.' 
Max Westler 
ing, "I think the administration has had a chance to sit back and watch everything happen at Notre Dame. This report brings about a time when Saint Mary's needs to take a position on their own." 
PinS, a group of Saint Mary's faculty and students, is not affiliated with the College. However, it is highly active in the campus community. 
The group will host an open forum on March 21 at 12:20 
p.m. in room 306 of Haggar College Center in order to dis­cuss the future of GLND/SMC in light of the recent Ad Hoc rec­ommendation. 
However, both Timm and Rosenbush maintain that PinS is not an officially recognized organization, just as GLND/SMC. And, according to the Saint Mary's student hand­book, only officially recognized organizations may hold meet­
ings on campus. Then how are PinS meetings taking place? 
"All [PinS related] activities are sponsored by the English Department," said Timm. 
Hosenbush said, "PinS does not have a room reserved for that forum. Since we don't rec­ognize them, they can't reserve a room." 
However, last night, PinS hosted a lecture entitled "Com­ing Out, Coming In, Coming Out," by Jeff Molitor, chairman of the Gay and Lesbian Alliance of Cincinnati. 
The key: it was co-sponsored by the English Department. 
"That lecture was resnrved under 'English Department,"' said Hosenbush. "I have no 
see REACTION/ page 4 

Arafat opens Palestinian Parliament 
By G.G. LaBELLE 
bombings that has killml (11 AP/Carl Fox JWOJlln sincn Feb. 25 and put Llu~ Jwacn procnss with Israel elncted Palestinian legisla­in jnopardy. ture met on Palestinian soil 
But he also attacked -was supposed to be a step lsnwlis for trying to halt the toward peace with Israel. tnrror by barricading The bombings have instead Palestinians inside their revived Israeli fears of towns, saying tlw blockade Palestinians and produced was "like the oecupation demands for Amfat to crush ronw bark again." the militants. 
Laying out an agonda for On Thursday, Palestinian thn lngislators, he said the police and Israeli troops top priority was "to keep the worked in tandem to try to pearn and make it stronger." track down radicals from the 
"Wn must light the terror-llamas group involved in four ists and radicals on both deadly explosions that killed sides," lw said. 61 people in Jerusalem, 
The opnning of thn parlia-Ashkelon and Tnl Aviv. nwnt -the first time an As the Israelis raided a 

LaBianca: Palestine's past shaped present 
By CAROI.INE Bl.UM 
\.1int ~l.lry\ Fditor · 
With conllirts in Isranl and the Middle J·:ast l~ontinuing to appear in the rwws earh day, Anthropology Instructor and l'aiPstinian nxJwrt Stnin LaBianea spoke Thursday at Saint Mary's about the uncl'rtainties and ehangn in Palestirw. 
"I will renwin optimistic for peace in lsnll'l," lu~ nxplainnd. "Both t.he Arabs and tim .Jews are n~silil~nt. But it is eru­cial that tlw West continues llwir sup­port of the peace agrnmnent. Tlw West rwnds to lw OlllJHlwemd to change llwir quality of lifn. Tim individuals who blew tlmmstdvns up worn brought up on a diet of n~sistance and hatn. The cycle will continue as long as the two groups are kept apart." 

l.aBianca spoke of both Palestinian and Israeli friends, the vast majority who seek to find peace. 
"Only a small group is creating the horror," he said. 
Before a group of around 20 students and faculty members, l.aBianea set asidn the issue for 40 minutes, however. in order to share his more positive oxpc­rieneBs in Palestine. 
"Three geographical pivots make liv­ing in Palestine difficult," LaBianea said. "The dry land, thn proximity to the Arabian and Syrian deserts, and its role as a corridor providing trade and com­munication." 
• NEWS ANALYSIS 

Dowty: Palestinians are 'virtual prisoners' 
By KELLY BROOKS ' News Writer 
In the last nine days four terrorist attacks in Israel have killed 61 people and injured hundreds. The lat· 
est attack Monday i.n a Tel Aviv shopping mall killed 14 and injured 
100. The latest rash 

of suicide Dowty 
bombings are threatening the Labor Government and may 
derail the peace process between Israel and the Palestinians. 

"The corridor," he continued, "is con­stantly fought over. For four millennias Palestine was under the domain of for­eign power." 
LaBianca showed slides of the impacts from each empire, with concentration on tho Petra, one of the world's seven wondors. A testimony to the Greek­Roman culture, the remains of Petra are still in tact in Jordan today. Petra was formerly a rose-red city carved into the mountainside. 
When LaBianca visited Petra for the first time in college while on an archeol­ogy dig in 1971, he discoverod a wonder that would l'orevor change his research. 
see SMC/ page 4 
To remain in power the Labor Party must make sure that the Israeli people feel secure. The Israeli military has closed the Palestinian territories to restrict move­ment of Palestinians within Israel, and are likely to remain closed by Israel until the elections in May. 
"The Israeli government was in a very strong position after Rabin's assassination," said Alan Dowty, professor in the Government depart­ment. ''If there are no more incidents between now and the elections and as anger subsides, the left [the Labor Party] will gain the advan· tage." 
see ANALYSIS/ page 4 



Lind views gender as 

prime factor 
By KELLY FITZPATRICK 
News Writer 
In recent years, sweeping changes in the infrastruetun1s of diverse nations have been taking place the world over. These changes are due in part to the continued economic devel­opment of nations, particularly Third World countries. 
Experts have been forced to re-ana­lyze the cultural and political implica­tions of development in the Post­Modern world, said Amy Lind from the Kellogg Institute for International Studies. Gender Studies sponsored a forum yesterday in which Lind pre­sented her lecture entitled, "Gender, Post-Modernism, and Development." 
Lind drew from her research in Ecuador to form her argument that the analysis of the restructuring polit­ical and economic systems underrepresents women's roles in the reshaping of their nation's frame­works. Lind also credited articles such as "Under Western Eyes" by Chandra Mahonty saying that these kinds of Post-Marxist critiques offer insight into the polities of identity and difference. 
Critics of the Post-Marxist approach reject the Post-Marxist's tendency to suggest a deterministic relationship between economic and political change. Lind suggests that these are two separate entities, and the addi­tional question that needs to be ana­lyzed is, "llow can wo understand woman's role in this process in a way that does not simply categorize or universalizn gender issues?" 
Lind clarified the terms Women in Development and Gender and Development in order to give a better idea of the answer to that question. Women in Development is, in essence, the integration of women into the development process. Gender and Development, however, takes a socialist-feminine approad1. with the emphasis more on development as an all-encompassing framework. accord­ing to Lind. "I want to create a more complex view of oconomics," Lind said, asserting that the all-en­compassing notion of dew~lopnwnt is overly simplistic. 
More contemporary movements 
see GENDER/ page 4 

llamas-run cultural center in Jerusalem and seized files and computers. Palestinian police arrested the center's director, Sheik Jamil Jlamami, and took him to their headquarters in the West Bank town of Hamallah. 
In an effort to illustrate Arafat's determination to wipe out terror cells, Palestinian police in Gaza 
City displayed pistols, assault rifles and material for mak­ing bombs and grenades ­all seized in raids on llamas hideouts since the bombings started Feb. 25. 
Ghazi Jabali, head of the police in Gaza. said 500 men have been arrested in the West Bank and Gaza in the campaign to track down the bomb makers. 



SMC administration feels no ties to ND report 
------------------~ ------~------------­
page 2 

ND fails to 
deal with 
problems 
Three years ago, almost to this very day, I remember working as an Assistant News Editor, assigned to lay out the Observer news section. It was late at night, and I distinctly recall my feeling of ter­ror when I was told to edit and write a head­line for the outgoing editor's final Inside Column. The editor who had penned the column, Monica Yant, had long since departed off to the Commons, Rhythm & Darts or wherever seniors hung out back in those days. 
So, I ended up editing her column and writ­ing a bland headline. One of her lines sum­marized the gist of the piece: "Notre Dame has done a fabulous job of doing nothing about a host of spiritual and emotional prob­lems that plague this community." I was more than a little taken aback to read what she had to say about the University of which I had just recently become a part. The next year, I was a little less surprised to read another outgoing Observer editor expressing nearly the exact same sentiments. 
Today, I regret that I'm about to add my name on to the bottom of the distinguished list of those that have left not with a cheery wave, but a frustrated shrug. While I may have grown more than a bit cynical watching this school from the third floor of LaFortune, I care deeply about ND and I do recognize that this University has a large number of out­standing qualities. 
I just wish ND would spend less time groom­ing those facets of its immaculate image and devote more honest energy into correcting its flaws. Our University refuses to take the risks necessary for its future growth. We are beginning to stagnate, even with thousands of bright students and faculty and a coveted U.S. News and World Report ranking. 
Look at the real problems-the corporate mentality that seems to put the dollar above all, poor relations between races and the gen­ders, a growing alcohol problem, a lack of diversity in both the student and faculty popu­lation, and a loss of student voice. At the very root of these seems to be a staunch denial that problems exists unless administrators are forced into dialogue by public outcry or the binding resolutions of the CLC 
It can be argued that large scale changes don't happen overnight-it may take a decade for ND to build its population of minority students. That view is valid, but the attitudes of administrators in dealing with problems, can be gauged nearly instantly. 
In my mind, one of the most telling state­ments from the administration came on Oct. 10, 1995 in a lecture on student life by Patty O'Hara. "For every negative article in The Observer, there are ten times as many posi­tive comments from students," she said in response to a question about problems at ND. Indeed, The Observer can be quite grouchy, but O'Hara's delusional response is a power­ful symbol of how out of touch administrators have grown. 
Admittedly, every family has its problems, 
and the "Notre Dame family" is no exception. 
The difference is, some families just deal\vith 
their problems better than others. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 



News Production Jamie Heisler Melissa DeRosa Jason Dorwart Jackie Moser Sports Accent Tim Sherman Joey Crawford 
Lab Tech Graphics Dave Murphy Brian Blank 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday rhrough Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
Friday, March 8, 1996
The Observer • INSIDE 
• 


Computer circuit in landing system fails on Columbia 

CAPE CANAVERAL, Fla. NASA said it would try to bring Columbia back to Earth on Friday without delay after 
Shuttle troubles 
FCS Channel:
The space shuttle Columbia's 15-day mission has

a computer circuit involving the space shut­
Provides data from flight
included several setbacks.

tle's wing flaps, rudder and brakes failed. 
control systems to the 
The shuttle has three identical backup cir­
main shuttle computer and controls wing flaps, rudder and speed brake.
cuits, and NASA said the seven astronauts 
were in no danger. But under the space 
One of the four

agency's rules, the loss of even one of the command paths failed. circuits dictates a return to Earth as soon as possible. Inertial Measurement Unit(IMU):
Even before Thursday's problem, 
Ahigh-tech gyroscope
Columbia was scheduled to return on 
that pinpoints the Friday. But NASA had been prepared to let location of the shuttle. the shuttle stay in orbit a day or two longer One of the three IMUs is 
working irregularly.

if the weather at Cape Canaveral was bad. 
After the circuit problem came up, NASA On-board gauge and dispatched a team of about 75 people to the caution light: shuttle's occasional backup landing site, at Indicates whether all 
engines are working

Edwards Air Force Base, Calif., in case the 
during liftoff. They

weather is better there. 
registered a problem,"What we want to do is make sure we're but the signal proved to doing the smart things," NASA flight direc­be a false alarm. tor Rich Jackson said. "So we keep our options open by not only scrambling the A­
Asecondary set of 0-rings The satellite, attached to a

team out there but continuing to observe the 
which form a safety seal 12.8-mile-long tether, severed

weather on both coasts." 
between the four sections of Feb. 25. It is expected to burn Shuttle shown with The 15-day mission has already had its rocket boosters, were singed up in the Earth's atmosphere main fuel tank and share of disappointments for the crew, by hot rocket gas on Feb. 22 along with the satellite. rocket boosters during liftoff.
including the loss of their satellite-on-a-cord, which broke loose and floated off into space 
AP/K. Tate
while being used to generate electricity. 


Clinton pleads for drug abstaintion Law schools getting fewer applicants 
GREENBELT, Md. BOSTON 
In an emotional and personal appeal, 
For the fifth consecutive year, fewer people have ap­
President Clinton urged the nation's plied for admission to American law schools, and a na­
young people today to help end a cycle tional group says this year's drop of about 11 percent is 
of drug abuse and violence he said is 
the largest. The Law School Admission Council expects
eroding the quality of American life. 
about 70,000 applications for the term beginning next
"Violence and drug use hurt everyone. 
fall. That would be 11.2 percent less than last year. In
They must stop and they must stop 
1991, a record 94,000 applied for admission; there are
now," he said. The president convened 
43,000 seats in 178 schools. Explanations for the decline
the White House Leadership Confer­
vary, with some analysts citing the poor job market for
ence on youth drug use and violence at Eleanor Roosevelt 
young lawyers as the main reason. It costs $100,000 for
High School here. Clinton said that for him the drug 
problem is intensely personal. "People in the '60s got three years at some law schools. Others say the bashing 
into this, not believing drugs were a danger until they of lawyers has taken its toll. "The impact of the O.J. 
nearly destroyed mY whole generation. I am not telling Simpson trial didn't help the image of lawyers," said 
you this as president," he said. "This is not a political Elizabeth Rosselot, director of admissions at Boston 
speech, it is a personal statement. I know a lot about this. College Law School. "There is a negative image of 
More and more young people seem to believe that drugs lawyers," she said. "We loved the days of 'L.A. Law.' 
are not dangerous any more; that is factually wrong. We We're waiting for another lawyer show." 
know that the toxic content of marijuana alone is many 
times more than it was 30 years ago." 
Puppy love or a crime? Female condoms offered to gays 
HASTINGS, Mich. SAN FRANCISCO 
A 9-year-old boy who left a phone message for a 10-Health officials here are offering female condoms to 
year-old girl, telling her "I want to be your lover," has gay men to help fight AIDS. The large, lubricated latex 
been accused of violating Michigan's anti-stalking law, pouches are designed for women as a barrier against 
his lawyer said Thursday. The girl's parents told author­pregnancy and sexually transmitted diseases. Some AIDS 
ities that the boy has called their home 200 times over activists are worried that the condoms haven't been ap­
several months. The final straw apparently was the proved by the federal Food and Drug Administration for 
recording left a few days before Valentine's Day. "Any anal sex. "Is it responsible to be actively encouraging 
sexual interpretation is the problem of the listener," gay men to use a product that is untested? I would argue 
attorney Charles Rominger said. "He wanted her to be that no, we should push for more testing," said Ben 
his valentine .... It's a childhood crush. What else could it 
Schatz, executive director of the Gay and Lesbian Medical 
be?" The families once lived across the street from each 
Society. But authorities say the condoms could help pre­
other. Both children attend the same elementary school, 
vent transmission of HIV. "We'll distribute them anyway'
but they are not in the same classroom, Rominger said. 
-it's our tradition to make whatever we can available to 
"Over the years both of these children called each other's 
keep HIV from spreading," nurse Marcy Fraser of the
homes numerous times to speak to one another and see if 
city Health Department's AIDS project said Thursday.
they could play," he said. He disputes the parents' claim 
"Like needle exchange, we'll do it anyway." 

that the boy called 200 times over several months. 

•Friday, March 8 
AccuWealher® forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures The AccuWeather®forecast for noon, Friday, March B. 
Unes separate high temperature zones for the day. 
COLD WARM STATIONARY 

© 1996 AccuWeather, Inc. 
Pressure 
H L 


HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT CLOUDY CLOUDY 
V1a ASSOCiated PreSS 


QA)_.rf") c££~~ {)-~ ~ 
,,',,",~,~ ......:. ·=·.::=·.::=· -::...-::...-:. . .. ·. 
Showers T~srorms Rain Flurries Snow lee Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy 
Via AssociatBd Press GraphicsNet 101996 AccuWeather, Inc. 

Atlanta 37 12 Houston 52 23 Phoenix 85 56 Boston 34 17 Kansas City 40 12 Portland 60 47 Cincinnati 27 9 Miami 67 50 San Diego 72 55 Cleveland 22 11 New Orleans 45 28 Seattle 59 47 Denver 56 19 NewYorl< 34 19 Wash.• D.C. 37 20 
friday, March 8, 1996 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS page 3 



SMC bypasses federal financial aid delays 
By LORI ALLEN 
Saint Mary's New> EJitor 
The Department of Education has been experienc­ing delays in processing feder­al aid applications for the 191)6-1997 aead!Hnic year, aeeording to the Saint Mary's Financial Aid office. This dnlay is pertinent to Saint Mary's stud1mts, as financial aid is so important to many currnnt and potential stu­!lt~n ts. 
It should Lw noted, however, that thesn fnderal delays will have a mininial effeel on Saint Mary's students as a result of tlw Collngn's usn of the PHO­Fll.E analysis provided by the Collnge Board. 
PHOFILE's processing has not been delayed and this has allowed for the financial aid office to prepare estimated awards based on the data re­eeived from PHOFILE. 
Assuming that the Depart­ment of Education is able to meet its revised timetable in processing this data and stu­dent loans, current Saint Mary's students will see only a minimal affect in their finan­cial aid from the College. 
"We have been working with the Financial Aid Office and are awaiting word from the Department of Education. We should have more information to provide students after break," said Saint Mary's Heg­istrar Sister Francesca. 

Kelly named chief-of-staff 
Special to The Observer Kelly, a Dillon Hall resident from Heston, Va., served as stu­Brendan Kelly. a sophomore dent government's commis­
govnrnment and pnacn studies sioner for campus improvement 
major. has been named chief of during the 1995-96 ad­
staff for the 1996-97 Notre ministration. 
Dame student government ad­Miller and Murray were op­
ministration. timistic about working with Kelly. "Megan and I were really excited when Brendan ac­cepted," said Miller. "He exem­plifies what our administration will be all about: results." 
Concert marks end of series 
Special to The Observer 
The University of Notre Dame Concert Band will pre­sent its annual spring concert 

March 18  at  8 p.m.  at the  
Joyce  Athletic  and  
Convocation Center.  

The spring concert will cele­brate the Concert Band's 150 years and is free and open to the public. 
The concert's program will include a variety of music, such as seleetions from Duke Ellington, John Phillip Sousa and Strauss, in addition to the music of Notre Dame. 
It will mark the end of the band's spring concert series, a nine-city tour with perfor­mances in Mundelein, Ill.; Wellington, Ohio; Hochester, N.Y.; Voorheesville, N.Y.; Wilbraham, Mass.; Boston, Mass; Cortland, N.Y.; Erie, Pa. and Youngstown, Ohio. 

The band was founded in 1845 and has toured annually for more than 50 years, per­forming in 42 states and more than 500 cities. 
Dr. Luther Snavely, Jr. has directed the University band for the past nine years. 
.He is assisted by James Phillips. assistant professor of music, and Father George Wiskirchen, assistant director of bands. 
This year's band features so­los by Mark Goffi. a graduate 

The Obse<Ver/Mike Ruma 
Director Dr. Luther M. Snavely conducts the Concert Band, which will 
be performing Monday, March 18 at 8 p.m. at the Joyce Center. 
student from Mobile, Ala. on dent from Cameron, Tex., on trombone; Shelby Lewis, a tuba; and Cassie Manning, a graduate student from Mount graduate student from Joliet. Tenn., on trumpet; Pontiac, Mich., on French David Marak, a graduate stu-horn. 

Fast growing telecommunicot company looking for Reps in this area. Must be a motivated self· 
er looking for fun and money! working with others and being ur own boss. Full or port-time. get the rewords that match efforts. Call today for more 
I I IJ 11 

\llt•IUIC'I SUIIIIIU"I'!>i llt•~lmml lth•t•t•tm· 
fj79-9257 
IRISH COUNTRY BED &BREAKFAST REGISlliY 
17u• Prt'fi.•rrt•tl Registry 
Stay at the 
Moose Krause House 
or other approved homes for Graduation, Football Weekends, and Special Events 
Ttr rrsrrvr: 
Call (219)277·7003 • Fax (219)273·2455 
• CAMPUS BRIEFS 
A Mass for the feast of Saint Patrick will be celebrated at the University of Notre Dame on March 18 at 5 p.m. in the Basilica of the Sacred Heart. 
Father James Kieran Foster. associate pastor of Holy Cross Parish in South Bend, will be the presiding celebrant, and the Notre Dame Folk Choir will provide contemporary and ac­companied music."We are delighted by any opportunity to celebrate our Irish heritage of sacred music," said Folk Choir director Steven Warner. "Mass for the feast of Saint l>atrick at Notre Dame is an appropriate occasion for us to do so." 
A special collection will be taken up at the Mass for the Andre Houses of Oakland, Calif., and Phoenix, Ariz. 
The University of Notre Dame's Tax Assistance Pro­gram will not be in operation March 8-17 because of the Uni­varsity's spring break. 
The program, in which volun­teer tax preparers provide free tax preparation for Michiana residents with annual incomes below $25,000, will reopen on March 18 and run through April 15. Last year more than 2000 tax returns were filed for Michiana residents by the pro­gram's volunteers. There is no charge for the service, which is supported by funds from Notre Dame's College of Business Administration. 

Breaking Away for Spring Break? 
Ride 





II~ITI=n I I~A()
-..----..__ ------__, ---·---._ ·-_._. ~ ­
............ ,.. _..., ....... ·~ 
Your convenient connection to the Chicago Airports United Limo leaves campus ten times doily for O'Hare and Midway Airports. Boord at the Bus Shelter on Notre Dome Avenue next to the Morris Inn. 


Please recycle The Observer 


The Observer 
is now accepting applications for: 
Advertising Account Executive 
Do you need extra money or valuable marketing and sales experimce? The Obsen,er offers: 
• 
Flexible Hours around elms scbedules. 

• 
Excellmt Income Opportunity. 

• 
Valuable Work Experience in a flm Atmosphere. 


Freshmen and Sophomores encouraged to apply. Please contact Ellen@ 631-6900 or drop off your resume to room 314, LaFortune. 

page 4 The Observer • NEWS Friday, March 8, 1996 

the part of the residents, the to understand the universalizing of social movements." ability to shift homeland terri­tendency of these development The engendering of political 
SMC Gender
tories, small scale water works, frameworks and remain cog­franchisement has been very hospitality from insurance poli­nizant that they do not hold up recent; therefore, there is a
continued from page 1 continued from page 1 
cies and information sources, cross-culturally. great disparity in the represen­"The agenda for the dig was and justice without courts or have begun to emphasize the According to Lind, analysts tation of women in the political police. differences among women, par­believe that women benefit from arena, according to Lind.
not oriented to the investigation 
LaBianca concluded with an modernization, and she agrees "Post-Modernism has pre­
of indigenous people," he said. ticularly those in non-Western 
explanation relating back to the society, Lind said. There has that "modernization is generally sented many challenges to fem­"But I became interested in the 
issues presently at hand. He the way to increase equality." inism," concluded Lind. She
culture's ability to survive the also been a growing reaction 
described a two-layered history against the Marxist overempha­Yet, she said, the policies need suggests that analysts "mergeunderlying social and economic 
of Jordon, the upper which is to take into account the differing cultural studies with studies of
conditions for literate civiliza­sis on structure and tendency to 
seen by the tourist, the lower regard women only in terms of roles of men and women in the gender and development totions." 
LaBianca was amazed at the which is seen by the anthropol­class, she continued. In fact, modernization process. return to more conventional indigenous group's ability to ogist and archaeologist. Lind stated that women's roles Lind also addressed the seem­questions of change." "The under class people are ing reluctance of women to Lind continued to say that
flourish, and diverted his stud­have conventionally been 
ies from archaeology to anthro­not seen as part of the town," defined largely in terms of their enter into the political arena gender mobilization can be he told. "But they succeeded access to the market and eco­historically by highlighting the motivation for mobilizing other
pology. 
through avoiding conformity to bias that women have encoun­aspects of the social, economic,
"I believe archaeology is a nomic roles. 
an enormous life structure and In order to overcome these tered on the basis of the notion and political structures. 
tool for doing anthropology," he 
said. "Anthropology studies the remaining transient. You may conceptual biases, Lind said, the of gender. Feminist theory Her question and focus of fur­think that this is ancient history frameworks of the development literature has pointed from the ther research, then, will deal
cultures of the past, and 
archaeology looks at the long­but look at the newspaper of countries must be reevaluat­beginning that gender is socially with when and why gender today. Ethnic conflict is still on ed. She said that it is necessary constructed, and "conceptual becomes the central mobilizing
term view." 
the rise because some cultures biases cloud historical accounts factor.
According to LaBianca's 
refuse to surrender their tradi­research, the groups were able 
tion. And we still have empires The recent increase in vio­turned a corner."
to survive due to seven human 
with large governments that lence may be due to several rea­"My big concern is for the

Analysis
responses to foreign political 
possess ethnic stereotypes. sons. Dowty suggested that the Palestinian people. They have
domination. These include 
LaBianca currently teaches continued from page 1 recent outbreak of violence is an made virtual prisoners by the
tribalism, found among vil­
anthropology at Saint Andrew's attempt by Barnas, a Palestinian Israeli military. People wholagers and nomads, a mixed University, and is a part-time As it stands now the Labor extremist group, to influence the have power overreact," he con­economy with both animal and 
Party, which is currently in Israeli tinued.
instructor at Saint Mary's. election and ultimately "It's a terrible collective crop production, flexibility on power, is even with the right in 
the peace process. punishment to put on a whole the polls. The Labor Party has "This is a case of extremists people when you can't distin­tradition, the Mission of Saint 
Reaction done much to further the peace on one side trying to guarantee guish the guilty ones." 
Mary's College, and the 
process with the Palestinians. the election of extremists on the Dowty asserts that "as long asPhilosophy of the Division of "That's the importance of the other side," he said. "It may the Palestinian authority acts oncontinued from page 1 Student Affairs." 
Labor Government, it has also be the dynamics within the the information provided by the
Therefore, administrators 
right to deny them the right to reached out to people's aspira­group itself. There may be a Israelis, further forces [in the
see no official acknowledg­
tions and those aspirations are splinter group within Hamas. territories] won't be needed." 
reserve." ment of either organization in 
Under campus policy, the future. Timm said that, clearly for peace," commented Groups often times compete." The question is how long the 
organizations cannot meet on Father David Burrell, theology "The people who carry out Palestinians can sustain harsh
since homosexuality "is not 
professor. violence want to destroy the
campus or be funded by the acceptable to Catholic teach­restrictions upon their move­
College unless they are offi­"Everyone knows there has to process because if you hit peo­ment and interference by the
ing, we are not in a position to 
cially recognized by the recognize them." be peace. Labor has to be ple in their fears that's the worst Israeli Government. If the Labor College. applauded for taking steps to thing you can do," explained Party loses the elections that
However, Timm did state 
The concern with officially that the campus offers ser­peace. They are the only ones Burrell. "The real question is to opens the door for further sanc­recognizing GLND/SMC and [in the Israeli Government] who determine why a small group of tions against the Palestinians. It
vices for lesbians through
PinS rests with College policy. Campus Ministry and the have reached out for peace," people want to sabotage the is likely that the peace process
added Burrell. "Labor Party
The student handbook states, Career Counseling and peace process." would be suspended if Lukid "The Board of Governance Development Center. has the heart and mind to know "Barnas lost any credibility came to power. "The peace may recognize or support any that the only way for Israel to be they had. Maybe that's the rea­process is so easy to destroy and 
College President William 
secure is to be at peace with its son that they did it," Burrell so difficult to build," reflected
group, club, or organization Hickey was unavailable for that respects the Catholic neighbors." said. "Maybe they felt they had Burrell.
comment yesterday. 
\I"Poi'IIWI"A 
tiJ 
,~; , :·rtn f:fm~ f:1J r.alf Pnmfrta't= ffm~ f:1J ,...ww 
..u1mfna't= 
Um.f& f:n r.adJ 
nmfna·~ 
ffmfl ha qo.aff

nmfnn't: 
tflm~ f:ta t'A!flf L 
Pnmfnn'~ • Crunchy T~ ~s"~
t.fma fr~J ,.4 V~ nmfnn'~ • Origin · trJ ossed 
dJm.\1\ ~ trAfff ·flfJl) htfll'!: 4 
~, 
r------~------~------, 
: 99¢ :$5.99 :S10.99: 
1 ~ ·1 Large 1 2 Large 1 


: Br"cf :1-Topping:l-Topping: 
1 • ':_J!' 1 Thin, Hand Tossed 1 Thin, Hand Tossed 1 I With any I Pizza or Deep Dish I Pizza or Deep Dish I I Pizza order. I Extra I Extra I 
___._ _______._ ______....
1 Not valid with other offers. 1 Not valid with other offers. I 
Shannon Griesemier 


VIEWPOINT
Friday, March 8, 1996 
• LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
The archetypal battle continues ...
Welcome to Catholicism 
Dear Editor: 

Brains versus brawn at ND 
Imagine if I, as a Protestant, asked for univtlrsity space and  
funding to begin a club opposed to the infallibility of the Pope  Dear Editor:  school", and perhaps I shouldn't expect much of  
or the adorution of Mary. The proper reaction would be to  I just couldn't let this silly letter slip through  a crowd at theatrical or artistic events. however,  
ask me why on Earth I chose to go to Notre Dame! I might  the cracks; I write in response to Cynthia  I would hope that students would want to enrich  
answer that I chose Notre Dame because of its unparalleled  Dubell's Feb. 29 argument regarding student  all aspects of their person, which I believe,  
faeulty and tradition. But I would be ignorant to give such a  attendance at Notre Dame sporting events.  requires participation in or appreciation of the  
response, because the academic excellenc{l and the tremen­ First, I would like to give some background on  arts.  
dous tradition flow from a common spring of great Catholic  my beliefs about competitive sports. Recently I  Having engaged in many similar conversations  
theologians and academies. It is the very mark of Catholicism  explained to my brother that I don't like the cui­ with sports lovers, I can probably predict your  
that makns Notre Danw so wonderfully uniquo.  true that accompanies many sporting events,  response: people attend events they are  
To aeeept the advantages of any university, while castigating  because it includes the need for domination, and  enthused about. If you don't produce somothing  
it for adhering to the basic tenets or its religion, is a form of  the crowds usually get the most excited when  they want to see, don't complain if they don't  
rnligious intolerance. Notre Dame welcomns nw despite my  players engage in lights. he pointed out to me  come. Well, I would now like to return that  
Protestantism, and I love Notre Dame despite my differences  that sports challenge athletes to do their best ­ answer to you. If I cannot expect students to  
with Catholidsrn. This works only becaus(~ I recognize that it  to push themselves to limits they didn't think  come to my shows, you cannot expect me to  
is I who havo chosnn to come into Catholicism's homn. Notre  they could rise to. I wondered, what is wrong  attend sports events to which I have an aversion.  
Dame welcomes gays the same as anyone else, for we are all  with a culture in which people only do their best  I do not feel that the measure of my school  
sinnMs and no sin is worse than any other. But no group of  when in competition with others? Why can't we  spirit lies in the number of times I sing the light  
willful sinners has the right to flaunt their particular sin and  strive to do our personal best every day?  song. I do not want to fight. I do want to gBt on  
demand that Catholicism's greatest university fund and  Next, I would like to speak as a theatre major  education, and I think the ell'ort I display in my  
accommodate a club based on that sin. Notre Dame should  a!J.d a member of several performing groups on  studies demonstrates true spirit for my school,  
eontintw to lovingly tell the gay activists no, lest she diminish  campus. Performance, as opposed to sports  considering Notre Dame is first and foremost an  
the very qualities that drew us all, gay and straight, to her in  events, is geared toward and put on solely for an  institute of higher learning.  
the first phu~e!  audience. The very definition of theatre, in fact,  
includes the word audience. Where, at sports  
THOMAS STEINKE  events, crowds help but do not prove essential,  LEANNE ROBINSON  
L~w School  we perform for the enjoyment of a crowd.  Sophomore  
Granted, Notre Dame calls itself a "sports  Lyons Hall  

Ad Hoc makes progress toward official recognition 
Dear Editor:  ed.  We  unleashed  our  fury  at the  deep-seated anger  at  the Catholic  up the Ad Hoc Committee (publicly any­ 
;\s a  woman-loving woman  under­ 1\drninistration upon the Ad Hoc  mem­ Church (not to mention Notre Dame),  way).  
graduate, I wish to respond to the Ad  bers.  Thankfully, their recommenda­ and some a total impotence in trying to  By peeling back layers of culpability to  
lloc CommitteP report as  published in  tions have, at least partially, surpassed  reform the Old World-thinking of the  beyond Father Malloy and the Board of  
thn Obsm·vnr Thursday, February 29.  I  our fears of being insubstantial.  Pope from within the Church. The quote  Trustees, we  arrive at the alumni.  
first laud the dt~dicated  effort of the  Heterosexuals, bisexuals, and homo­ above depicts us as good little Christian  Alumni, especially those who donate  
CommilttH~ activists.  Hegardless of their  sexuals alike on  this campus should  queers.  We have found "a way to live"  time and money, who remain silent on  
own snxual-politieal agenda, they have  realize how the Ad Hoc Committee  as adults, and are merely asking that  thll issue of GLND/SMC recognition are.  
plact'd thmnstdvns in a compromising (­ serves as a scapegoat for the oh-so  "way" to be recognized so we can get on  indirectly responsible for eementing the  
mil and threatening (-ndl position.  politically astute Patricia O'Hara (who  with living like or as Christians.  Administration's disavowal of "valuable  
ThP 1\d Ilot~ Commillee's hearings last  was auspiciously absent from the hear­ I stress the Catholic bias of this recom­ members" of its precious "family."  
fall opmwd thn discussion floor to ND  ings). just as last year she was a vilified  mendation not to deconstruct the tenu­ ;\s concerned studnnts and faculty we  
IPshians, bisPxuals, and gays; for the  political decoy for the Administration up  ous coalitions in progress or to rant at  must all encourage  all the alumni we  
lirst limP our voices were granted ofli­ to  Father Malloy and the Board of  trivial language-use, but to reveal how  know ­ active or not -to express dis­ 
dal authority.  Trustees.  perspectives are over-simplified and  approval of 1\dministrative non-recogni­ 
llowt~ver,  the Committt~e·s  n~quest  for  Heligion plays perfeetly into the game.  detracted from any criticism of the  tion.  Until full recognition descends  
helpful solutions (to t~vade  the recogni­ The Christian/Catholic-centric language  Church.  Inherent in the focus  on the  from the golden Domers through the  
tion isstwl was met with natural resent­ of tlw mport (which incessantly repeat­ "commitment to faith," in my skepti­ Administration and Patricia O'llara, the  
mnnt and tlw fntding that the Committee  ed the word "faith") seemed slightly  cism, is an unconscious bow to upright  gay community here must, and does,  
muld only offpr pinemneal and consola­ forced and reconciliatory.  While indeed  "Catholic" alumni and their lucrative  deeply appreciate the ongoing progress  
tion priws.  We felt likn wn wern  being  the subject of religion and spirituality  ties to Notre Dame.  made  through  the  compromising  
shown a hole in a wall instt~ad  of bning  surraced at the session I attended, the  So then, where does responsibility for  recommendations  of  the  Ad  Iloc  
hPipPd to Jevp) it.  report stretches the matter when it  GLND/SMC's non-recognition lie?  The  Committee.  
The Commilttw mnmbers most cer­ says,"Many gay and lesbian students  students and student organizations have  
tainly hit our hullnts, listening compas­ spok1~ about their commitment to their  rallied, marched, and signed declara­ SARAH M. CORSON  
sionattdy as our voices quakml with pain  raith and their desire to find the way to  tions of protest.  The Ad Hoc Committee  Junior  
and outragt~.  as our stories or isolation  live as adult Christians."  has been cooperative and courageous,  Lyons Hall  
and sPII'-hatrPtl (past or present) unrold- What in truth many expressed was a  and Patty O'Hara, well,  at least has set  
Commencement: Reaffirming values  
I>car Editor:  institution dedicated to the preservation, extension and  
l.atP this spring thn Notre Dame administration and  transmission of learning.  And Notre Dame is  a  
farulty will throw a  party for  a very select group of  Catholic university, numbering among its academic  
sonw of this country's most talented young people.  functions the preservation, extension and transmission  
Tlwir l'amiliPs will conw, and it will be a great cele­ of Catholic thought.  
bration.  It always is.  It's ealled "eommtmcmntmt".  As a Catholic university, Notre Dame is dedicated to  
Comnwnct~nwnt  is an  oecasion  on  whieh the Notre  religious as well as intellectual formation.  This means,  
l>anw eommunity gatht~rs to say a lot of farewells.  We,  at minimum, that what students learn here should be  
tlw faculty and administration, want to say good-bye to  designed to help them serve God and one another.  
the undergraduates whom we have been privileged to  It is therefore appropriate that we use commence­ 
lear.h !'or rour years.  ment to celebrate the value of Catholic learning, and  
Seniors ar1~ not tlw only ones who gradual!~. of  that the hosts of commencement-the faculty and the  
course, and graduation is not only about them.  We  administration - take one last opportunity to remind  
also hid l'arPwell to professional students, and we want  graduates of how important it is to usc that learning in  
to give spPrial rt~cognition to a group who am usually  service.  
forgotten whPn graduation is discussed  - Ph.D. stu­ I was glad to learn that I won't hear President  
dPnts, most of whom have been lwm far longer than  Clinton when I attend commencemtmt this spring.  This  
four yt~ars,  haw sacrilkml much morn to be hPre than  is not because I disagr~e  with his politics.  Indeed I  
Ulltlt~rgraduatPS have, and whose dedieation to a lire or  suspect that I'm far more likely to vote for Clinton in  
sl'holarship WI' admirt~.  November than are many of those who now say that  
But "good-hyn" is not tlw only or the most important  they want to hear him in May.  
thing tlw uniVI'rsity wants to say to its graduation stu­ But Bill Clinton (or Newt (;ingrid!, if he is your pref­ 
dPnt.s on the I'VI' of tlwir departure.  Craduation wnek­ erenee) eould be invited as a guest of tht~  senior class  
Pnd is likP a  family's Thanksgiving dinrwr or, lwttnr,  for Snnior Week.  Mary 1\nn Glendon is  a  noted  
likl' a Passover sedPr.  Catholic scholar who has served the Church as a part­ 
It  is an  occasion wlwn this community gathers to  time diplomat and who eontributns intelligently to dis­ 
rPal'lirm t.hP vahws of which it stands, to state thosn  eussion of the most divisive publie issue of our time.  
valut~s rlearly, and to rnmiml its rnnmlwrs-especially  Ilnr career exernplilins what  tlw Univr.rsity stands  
t lwsn who art~ leaving ­ of why tlwy canw together in  for and what it nxists to do.  Graduating Ph.D.'s,  
tlw lirst plan~.  professional students, seniors - twen thll person who  
Thi-; is why the fal'ulty and administration host a  wrote the editorial "Mary Ann Who?"  - are lucky to  
l'ommPncPment wtwkend for all those to whom  we  have her as their comnwncement spnaker.  
grant dPgrePs insttHtd of sending tlwm diplomas  
through tlw mail.  
What valut>s should we n~aflirm  at cornnwncnment'?  PAULJ. WEITHMAN  
Nolrt~ l>anlf• is not in tlw nntertainnwnt busirwss or the  Class of 1981  
football husirwss.  It is not a resort cursed with partic­ Department of Philosophy  
ularly had WPatlwr.  Notre Dame is a  university, and  





VIEWPOINT 
page 6 Friday, March 8, 1996 
r 
r 
r 
~ ~ 
r 
~ 
r r 
r 
r 

THE OBSERVER 
NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MAidS OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1995-96 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief John Lucas Business Manager Joseph Riley 
News Editor ................................ David Tyler Advertising Manager ........................... John Potter Viewpoint Editor .................. Meaghan Smith Ad Design Manager ......................)en Mackowiak Spons Editor ............................. Mike Norbut Production Manager ..................Jacqudine Moser Accent Editor ......................... Krista Nannery Systems Manager ............................ Sean Gallavan Saint Mary's Editor .................... Patti Carson Observer Marketing Director .......... Pete Coleman Controller ............................................. Eric Lorge 
The Ob.erver is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saine Mary'~ College. lc does not necessarily reflect the policies of the adminisrra­don of either instirution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned edi­torials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commemaries, letters and Inside Columns present rhe views of rhe auchors, and nor necessarily rhose of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's com­munity and to all readers. The free expression of varying opinions through lerrers is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 
Editor-in-Chief 631-4542 Business Office 631-5313 Managing Ediror!Viewpoim 631-4541 Advertising 631-6900/8840 Sports 631-4543 Systems/Marketing Dept. 631-8839 News/Photo 631-5323 Ollice Manager 631-7471 Accent/Saint Mary's 631-4540 !'ax 631-6927 Day Editor/Production 631-5303 Viewpoint E-Mail Viewpoint.! @nd.edu General Information 631-7471 Ad E-Mail observer@darwin.cc.nd.edu 
. 
ball coach John Thompson, despite some criticism, sion and the jeering reached the height of its fury, the gave him the chance to attend Georgetown. Even pain and shame showing in his eyes haunted me. Yet
Giving 'jailbirds' 
though Coach Thompson is famous for his ability to he composed himself, shot his free-throws, maintained educate disadvantaged young people-he graduates his dignity, and showed his humanity by not respond­over 90% of his players-many in the media were sur-ing to a group of fans who used shameful tactics. To prised he was willing to assume responsibility for Allen chant "jailbird, jailbird" to this young man is a disser­Iverson. vice to Notre Dame, to the newly 

a second chance 
Dear Editor: As a former Georgetown baseball ------------formed (and hopefully long-lasting)I'm sorry this letter is so belated, but I promise player, I saw the athletic program from rivalry between our two schools, andhave a good excuse. I am a 1994 Georgetown gradu­the inside, and I have developed a cer-to the basic Christian principle of ate, a big basketball fan, and a person who is very tain reverence for John Thompson. Not 'lAJhen he left mercy, charity, and most importantly,pleased that Notre Dame has entered the Big East only do his players practice hard and V V p r i 50 n, Allen forgiveness.
Conference. I am also an English teacher who resides lift weights like bodybuilders, but they I have many friends at Notre Dame,in the Andean South American nation of Ecuador, go to class, study all night long for Iverson's future was an and I know that it only takes a fewwhere there are few televisions and a serious lack of finals, and they work as hard for their absolute uncertainty.' bad (or drunken) fans to spoil theESPN. Therefore, when I received a package from my degrees as any other Georgetown stu-bunch, but I implore those whomother the other day containing the videotape of the dent. I was good friends with many of weren't chanting to discourage suchfirst Big East match-up between Notre Dame and these players, and their personalities tactics in future meetings. NotreGeorgetown, I was elated. However, as the game was usually reflected the special character-Dame played an excellent gamenearing its finish , I heard a chant from the Notre istics of Coach Thompson: hardworking, focused, against Georgetown. I was impressed by the dctermi­Dame crowd that left me shocked, disgusted, and kind-hearted, and dedicated to education. When he nation and courage of Coach McCloud's team, andfrankly, sick to my stomach: "jailbird, jailbird." 
interviewed Allen to come to Georgetown, Coach despite the "jailbird" chant, I am looking forward to
Everybody knows that Georgetown's' superstar 
Thompson must have seen something special in this years and years of rivalry between the lloyas and thepoint-guard Allen Iverson is a convicted felon. He young man, above and beyond basketball abilities, that Irish, two excellent Catholic schools that understandserved six months in a Virginia prison for "aggravated made him confident that he could survive the academic the true meaning of the term "student-athlete."
melee" that occurred in a Virginia Beach bowling alley 
rigors of Georgetown, a school very similar academi­
nearly three years ago. When he left prison, his future cally to Notre Dame. JOHN A. LEWIS was an absolute uncertainty, but Georgetown basket-As Iverson stepped to the foul-line on national televi-Georgetown '94 
Racial preference parallels racial discrimination 
Dear Editor: Board of Regents, the most promising tion or public contracting. in the way of practicality." Well, I 
Just when I thought America had seen effort to roll back Affirmative Action· is You wouldn't think such innocuous believe the principle of fairness, justice, the last of the leftist Affirmative Action the California Civil Rights Initiative, a language would raise the venom of the and equal opportunity for people of all zealots. The Observer digs up Matthew proposed amendment to the California left. skin colors should get in the way of self­Apple. Luckily, he is studying creative state constitution which will appear on The bottom line is that the American interest. writing -it takes quite a bit of very the November ballot to be approved by people, whether supporters or oppo­One of the primary benefits creative writing to make Affirmative the California electorate. Recent polls nents of Affirmative Action, want to help Affirmative Action bestows, according to· Action look good. show that when the initiative is read to minorities; indeed they want to help all Apple, is "a feeling of hope where previ­
Much of Apple's ranting and raving prospective voters, they favor the people. But there is a wrong way and a ously there may have been little or are against recent government action to amendment by over a 2 to 1 margin­right way to help minorities. Affirmative none." If the only hope left is a racial end Affirmative Action programs. It's and this support stays strong across all Action seeks to help some races by pun­preference program that hands people about time someone did something to racial lines. I assume when Apple says ishing other races. The operating prin­that which they do not deserve at the end Affirmative Action. For over a he fears "a conservative trend in racial ciple underlying Affirmative Action is to expense of those with different skin col­decade public opinion polls have show relations," he fears language like this use race-based decision making to give ors then America is truly in sad shape. the American people overwhelmingly which will most definitely become cali­less qualified members of some races Affirmative Action is a false hope against the racial preferences manifest­fornian law later this year: opportunities that more qualified mem­propped up by years of effort on the ed in Affirmative Action. The recent Neither the State of California nor any bers of other races deserve. Denying behalf of the last generation of radical attempt by a few elected officials to of its political subdivisions or agents people the fruit of their labor because of leftists. Thankfully Apple is at the rear­finally end racial preferences simply shall use race, sex, color, ethnicity or their skin color is as wrong today as ti guard of those antiquated legions. means that the will of the American peo­national origin as a criterion for either was forty years ago. Surely, there must ple may actually become reality. Apple discriminating against, or granting pref­be a better way to help minorities. supports democracy, doesn't he? erential treatment to, any individual or Apple seems to think there is nothing BRIAN FITZPATRICK 
Despite the noble attempts by the group in the operation of the state's sys­wrong with accepting racial preference Senior Louisiana governor and the California tem of public employment public educa-benefits: "personal pride should not get Planner Hall 

MR.. /<aF{5,/75BEbV5AI/? PAT tv£NT 70 &/..Af30RA7l3 THAT!3UOfANIW COUWN'T t&NGTH9 NOT TO G&T HAV&8EAT£N a?AMM IN PHOTOGRAPHEl? tu/TH /?UK&. tOU/5/ANA UJITHCVT 7H& He !<NOtUS THAT PAVI£? 
HElP OF /?AVI() OUK/3. ... fVSH£!3 A tOTa=BUT­
TONS WITH THe N£/AJ YORJ< 
M&I?IA CAB4L. 
GARRY TRUDEAU 
8UT PAT 8UOiANAN UV£.5 IN THe R&AL. IAJOR/...1?/ ANt? 7He FACT 19, YOU CANNOT 
WIN A G.O.P. PRIMARY IN 
t.OU/5/ANA IVITHOUTTH& 
5UPFVR:T '\. 
CF7H& 
NA'Zf5l 

"The secret of life is enjoy­ing the passing of time." 
-James Taylor 



ACCENT
Friday, March 8, 1996 page 7 

seaping the 
end 

On the road again... 
F
ive mod-quad juniors, Bill, Norma, Jack, Jill (the one behind the map), and Dave (passed out in the trunk) attempt to escape the stifling atmosphere of South Bend in exchange 
for the freedom of the open road. Each member of the group is searching for their 
respective cultural mecca. The only problem is, they can't agree on where to go, except 
for Dave. Dave's only aspiration for spring break is to eat, drink, sleep ...and drink some 
more. 

Bill dreams of venturing to Arizona to visit the Grand Canyon. He claims it his destiny to "hawk a loogee" into the deep chasm. Norma, the driver, disagrees with Bill's plan, she yearns to return to her roots. Her mother grew up on a small farm on the plains of South Dakota. She argues it would be "lot's of fun" to go and help out on the farm. Jack protests by arguing that he is extremely allergic to all farm animals. "Especially those in South Dakota," he adds with a sneer. It has been his long time dream to visit Graceland and get "all shook up." Fortunately for the rest of the group, his desire to see the King was satisfied when he sees Elvis at a McDonald's along route eighty. 
Jill claims that she is ambiguous as to where they go, just as long as everyone is happy. Little do the others realize that behind this sweet facade, there lies a selfish individual. She volunteered to read the map so that she could blindly lead her group to her home town of Florabama, roughly translated to "South Bend is a much better lime." Her plan fell through though when she fell asleep two hours into the trip. 
The ill-fated group have not a clue as to where they are going. Despite the fact that their destination is unknown, they plan on making the most of the new found freedom. Maybe they will venture across the great plains for the city of Las Vegas to find their fortune, no matter where they decide to go, tourist traps and souvenirs hinder their way . 
Wasting A'Way Again 1n• Margaritaville 
A 
fter fmqunnling the tan salon for the past two weeks, lleidi digs out her snazzy shorts and cut-off tops to head to the place where Mario from Tan-a-Lolla is not the only one ptH1ping at her while she sunbathes. A place where the retro rocks and the bnaehfront rolls. And where a wet T-shirt, a pair of tighty-whities, or a "sexiest kiss" can award you a free drink. Ahh. Margaritaville. 
lleidi hopes that in Margaritaville she will "get some rays and meet a few cool guys." What she fails to prnpare herself for. however, are the pinches, perks, squeezes, hoots, fnmks, fondles, feels, and other suggestive gestures she receives from guys in sleeveless tank tops and tiger-print speedos. But after thirty minutes on the beach, Heidi adjusts. 
Ih1idi gets excited about her first night in Margaritaville. She follows the neon-lights and tnrhno musie to a bar where she is stamped, braceleted, examined under neon-lights, and thrown onto the dance floor. After waiting 30 minutes at the bar, Heidi decides to have a seat. Three "Sex on the Beaches,'' two beers, one dance, and four Slammers later, Heidi rnalizns the utter high of visiting Margarita ville. She steals a lifeguard T-shirt off of her new lwst frit1nd Pedro, slips in on, and dances to the Marcarena dance with five other John Travolta-irni tators. 
Aft11r the bar clears out, Heidi and her new friends stumble down to the beach to watch the sunrise. As the brneze tickles her face and the tide rolls in, Heidi Jays back to watch the show. In the distance she can hear the tunes of .Jimmy Buffett. "Wasted away in Margaritaville... llow I got here I haven't a due... " 



TraPPed in Paradise 
B 
rrr! Kimberly and Pete decide to exchange the flat terrain of Indiana for the beautiful mountains and attempt to go skiing. Pete has a great deal of difficulty standing, while Kimberly seems to have no problem whatsoever. And whoever said that freshmen gym class was worthless. At any rate, Pete finds himself in another predicament. Visions of an avalanche pummeling his small body to pieces haunt his mind. Apparently Pete spends his free time watching too much of Day of Our Lives. He was crushed when Hope was lost in an avalanche, now he fears he may suffer a similar fate. It's just a TV show, Pete. 
Kimberly pretends to ignore the fact that Pete is having a horrendous time and decides to concentrate on her skiing ... and her ski instructor, Dolph. Dolph on the other hand does not even realize that Kimberly exists, for he only has eyes for the snow bunny Heidi. Kimberly, who in order to attract Dolph's attention proceeds to break world records in skiing and ends up being recruited by the national team. But much to her dismay, Kimberly can not attract Dolph, who is now intimated by her skiing ability. 
Poor Pete, he is left all alone to what he believes is his snowy grave. He entertains himself with a flask that he has hidden inside his snow suit. Finally he is rescued from certain demise by a group of Huskies. 
Kimberly and an angry Pete meet up later that night and decide that they forgot about the real reason why they ventured thousands of miles to ski country, the Lodge Bar. They eventually decide to warm up their thoughts with certain fermented beverages. Suddenly, Pete forgets about his nightmarish visions, and Kimberly forgets all about "what's his name." 
Written by Caroline Blum und Joey Crawford 



page 8 The Observer • SPORTS Friday, March 8, 1996 
Keenan 
continued from page 12 
him. He made things happen on the field that most players lack the ability to do. 
"Jimmy's a very savvy competitor," asserts head lacrosse coach Kevin Corrigan. "He's an unusual­ly focused player, and because of that he finds a way to get the job done. Whether it's flashy or workmanlike, he gets things done as good as any­one." 
A look at the life of Jimmy Keenan reveals a striking resemblance to that of Clark Kent. All Keenan needs is a phone booth and he would be set, although it is arguable that Keenan's life is far more hectic than Kent's ever was. 
At Notre Dame, Keenan stands out as a rare· two-sport athlete, star lacrosse player and walk­on point guard on the basketball team. A brief glance through the history books of Irish two­sport athletes would find the name Keenan next to men such as Knute Rockne and George Gipp and the present Pete Chryplewic. Like them all, Keenan is a winner. 
"Jimmy is number one an excellent athlete," says assistant basketball coach Fran McCaffery. "He has great instincts as a basketball player, probably due to his success in lacrosse. He's a competitor. He's tough." 
At Chaminade H.S. on Long Island, Keenan played point guard on a team that won the N.Y. Catholic High School basketball championship in 1994. He averaged 15 points, 10 assists and six steals and earned all-Long Island honors. 
While he came to Notre Dame largely because of its lacrosse program, Keenan first earned a name for himself in the annual Bookstore Basketball Tournament last spring. 
Showcasing his flashy, quick style of play, Keenan led his team to the Round of 16 and earned All-Bookstore honors by the tough Dos Kloskas squad. And when all was said and done, the 6-0 freshman was awarded first team All­Bookstore honors to cap his success. 
The ride was not yet over. 
Within a few weeks, Keenan was helping the Irish lacrosse team to its first Final Eight ap­pearance in the NCAA's, including Notre Dame's first-ever NCAA tournament victory in five appearances. Although he had scored only live goals all season, he stepped up his play when it counted, scoring in both tournament games against Duke and Maryland. 

"The success was great, but it wasn't a very big deal because I had been in those situations before," recalls the reserved Keenan. 
A typical day for Keenan might be considered something of a nightmare by most Notre Dame students. On Mondays, Wednesdays and Fridays, Keenan goes to three classes from 8 a.m. to 1 p.m.; on Tuesdays and Thursdays, he has 9:30 and 11 a.m. classes. Things become particularly complicated when basketball season is in session. With practice at 3 p.m., he has less than two hours to rest or do some homework. 
After three hours of practice in the Joyce Center, Keenan heads over to Loftus at around 6 
p.m. for the start of a rigorous, two-hour lacrosse practice. 
"Once I got used to it, it wasn't too bad," says Keenan of his schedule. "At times I got tired, but it's not as exhausting as people make it out to be. The workouts help me get in shape." 
With basketball now out of the picture, Keenan has turned his attention to lacrosse. The mid­fielder has already stepped up his play and his playing time on a young team which lost seven starters to graduation last year. 
"More than anything else, Jimmy will take on a bigger role this year," says Corrigan. "Last year, he was not a prime ballhandler for us. lie never really had to adapt to the pressure because we used him in with three seniors so that he could get the experience. Now we need him to create of­fense in terms of ballhanding." 
That should be no problem for Keenan, who also has to create opportunities as a point guard. As he displayed last Saturday in his passes to DeRiso and his other teammates, Keenan has sharp eyes and a good sense of where others are on the field. He possesses great composure and rarely gets rattled. Much of the reason for Keenan's on-field success is this mental toughness and intelligence. 
"Jimmy is a very intelligent athlete and per­son," says McCaffery. "For example, one thing that the walk-ons do in practice is run the oppos­ing team's offense or defense. Well, one time we looked at Villanov.a's offense over a three-day stretch. Jimmy was able to learn the offense in 20 minutes. That's how bright he is." 
Unfortunately, NCAA basketball rules will pre­vent Keenan from playing Bookstore this spring. He plans on playing varsity basketball though for the rest of his stay at Notre Dame. 
Now though, Keenan will focus on taming the competition on the lacrosse field and helping Notre Dame to its first lacrosse national title. 
• LACROSSE 


Cross-country trek on tap for laxmen 
By TIM MCCONN Sports Writer 

While most of the Notre Dame students prepare their Spring Break travel plans to such places ·· · as South P a d r e Island and Panama City,mem­bers of the I r i s h lacrosse team get to go to such places as Annapolis, MD, Villanova, PA, and Colorado Springs, CO. 
Over the next week and a half, while their friends are re­laxing on beaches, these guys will be competing against top­notch competition. 
This Saturday will mark the beginning of a three-game, spring break road trip in which the 12th-ranked Irish will play the University of Maryland-Baltimore Country, Villanova. and the Air Force Academy. All three of these squads were victims of the Notre Dame juggernaut last season, 11-2, 15-7, and 16-5, respectively. 
"We did beat all three teams last year," said head coach Kevin Corrigan. "All return the same guys, and are better than they were last season." 
As a result, the Irish realize that none of these games will be easy wins. They know that every game is a test, and can-not be complacent. 

In fact, if anything positive can be drawn from their 14~ 7 loss last weekend to 6th­ranked Loyola of Maryland, it is that the defeat has made Notre Dame that much more eager to prove themselves. 
"These are important games for us," stated Corrigan. "They give us a chance to establish ourselves. Against Loyola, we played well, but we just didn't make the plays to win the game. So now the question is, can we step up and make the plays to win these games?" 
One player in particular who feels the need to "step up" is goalie Alex Cade, whom coach Corrigan regards as a team leader. 
More than anyone, he felt the stinging disappointment of the season opening loss. For this reason, Carle, a potential All-American, is looking for a shot at redemption. 
"I had a bad game, so I'm looking to come out and play much better this time," said Cade, who started 13 games and led the nation in goals­against-average (7. 62) last season. As far as the conse­quences the loss could have on the team are concerned, Cade believes the team will reap only long-term benefits. 
"I don't think it can have anything but positive effects," said Cade. "The team is pretty determined right now. After a loss like that. we're fired up and ready to play." 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. 
Classifieds Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
Please Help!  Faculty or student  05/17  Hey Meganrupper  PC:  
NOTICES  I lost my long black coat at Senior Bar on 2/23. Please call if you  4 Bdrm -2 baths !urn. appliances-washer-dryer  03/t9 0o0o0o0o0o0o0o0o0o0o0  Modockin 2 lrram! Get it? Look, a fossil just passed us. GJWHF! Teen  I'll take a couple of BLT tacos-1 sure do like bacon on a taco-and  
know where it is. Thanks.  attached 2 car garage off street  QUALITY COPIES, QUICKLY!!!  Wolf -circles are better than  a large diet Pepsi. Maybe some of  
NAZZ!!  Laura  parking. Available in Aug. for lease.  THE COPY SHOP  squares! I hope we find our tails.  those cinnamon twists. that is if you  
March 21. 1996  x1553  234-1336 lv Msg  LaFortune Student Center  Let's have lunch. I'll take you to the  aren't too poor. ..  
8 PM  @ Stepan  Phone 631-COPY  Schnitzelbank if you promise to  Bret.  
Battle of Campus Bands  found small amount of money  5 bdrms, 2 full baths, alarm sys,  0o0o0o0o0o0o0o0o0o0o0  control that tongue. Don't exagger­ What's this I hear about a London  
Food and Drinks  outside of doors on sunday the  refrig, stove, partially furnished.  ate -Scooby Doo forever! Never  chick? You go boy ....  
All for Free!!  25th. Call 273-6205 to verify  Heat incl. Completely remodeled.  Enthralling Conversation  laugh in church -Whoa Skipper ­ And, sure, call Amy and not me...  
amount.  606 N. St. Peter.  Guaranteed in exchange for ride to  have a hella great b-day!  --------­ 
Come see the best of the campus  289-5999 or 255-9471  Harrisburg, PA or nearby on Friday  Love, NickeiBerry  sometimes you just got to let it  
bands compete for the coveted title  LOST:  a silver pin with the  Mark Kramer.  March 8 after 1 :05 pm.  Will pay  --------­ ride...  
of NAZZ!!  enscribed word:  BELIEVE.  This  share of tolls. gas. etc.  Please call  Jebidiah Springfield says:  
EUROPE $229  piece of jewelery has much senti­mental meaning. Please call Kerry  FOR SALE  Erin ASAP x3777  A noble spirit embiggens even the smallest man.  ERIN PURTELL IS 21 TODAY  
Be a little flexible and save $$$  at 4-2493 if found. Thanks.  RIDE DESIRED:  Today's the day. March Madness  
We'll help you beat the airline  H P 48G sci calc w/ chem app card  FROM Southern NY or Northern NJ  finally commences in earnest as  
prices. Destinations Worldwide  WANTED  x3692  back to Campus on March 17th. Will pay share and keep driver  DO YOU LIKE TO WRITE? Join the Saint Mary's Observer  Dante Calabria and the boys kick off a run of nine games that will cui- 
AIRTICHtm 800-397-1098  1421 N. Oak Hill Dr., by owner,  entertained for hours! Brian x1173  staff. We want you.  minate in an ACC and National  
airtich@ netcom.com  CRUISE SHIPS NOW HIRING- immaculate, two full baths, garage,  Call Caroline Blum 631-4540 or  Championship, thus furthering the  
Earn up to $2,000+/month working  finished lower level, walk to ND,  Sharon.. .Purdue rocks when you  284-4349.  exponentially growing fame of The  
on Cruise Ships or Land-Tour com- range, dishwasher, microwave,  can't drive!  Inferno. Dante is going to be very  
WATCH OUT FOR THE JAMAICA  panies. World travel. Seasonal &  refrigerator, washer/dryer, garage  $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$  much like his namesake's writings.  
HOOP SQUAD AT A TAVERN  full-time employment available. No  door opener, $77,900,  Lisa the archie who lives on Bulla  NEED MONEY FOR  Hot as hell, yet cool as ice. Bobby  
NEAR YOU-THEY WILL BE  experience necessary. For more  ph. 277-8898  Road is a babe! Grrrrr!  SPRING BREAK?  Cremins. aka "Shaggy", Stephen  
APPEARING AT BRIDGETS ON  information call1-206-971-3550  Morrissey Student Loan Fund  "Madison v." Marbury, and Brent  
FRIDAY AFTERNOON!!!!!!!!  ext.C55843  JUDAY CREEK gem.  "Ziggy played for time, jiving us  Dooley Rm(Across from info desk)  "My brother says bring on His  
Well-maintained. 4-bedroom ranch  that we were voodoo  M-F 11 :30am -12:30pm  Airness" Barry will be singing that  
LIFE MOVES PRETIY FAST, IF  BIG EAST TICKETS WANTED  with a 17 x 25 home office  The kids were just crass,  one day waiting period  song from The Commitments that  
YOU DONT STOP EVERY ONCE  & 3-car garage.  he was the NAZZ  30 day loan @ 1% interest  goes like "I Can't Stop the Rain"_  
AND A WHILE TO LOOK AROUND  TOP$$$ PAID  5 minutes to ND.  With the God given ass  LAST DAY FOR SENIORS IS  Or will it be like Marky Mark,  
YOU MIGHT MISS IT-FERRIS  REDUCED TO $149,500  He took it all too far but boy could  FRIDAY, MARCH 8, 1996  "Money, Money, Money, Money".  
---------w  (800)269-5849  Call Karen 272·3653.  he play guitar''  $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$  Actually, I think James T.aylor will  
The Michiana Paintball Club now  You too can be the NAZZ  --------­ be most appropriate -"Carolina on  
has an Indoor Paintball field in  - or at least be at NAZZ  Foran Foran Foran Foran Foran  My Mind".  And in your face.  Go  
South Bend · Free membership.  ALASKA EMPLOYMENT-Students  Waterfront Condos  8pm March 21 -Stepan  How's  Heels.  
291-9462  Needed! Fishing Industry. Earn up  1 Bedrooms from $52,000  ---------­ Your  
to $3,000-$6,000+ per month. ILOST & FOUND I Room and Board! Transportation! Male or Female. No experience  2 Bedrooms from $80,000 New Decor EVERYTHING included  Do you think Potter would really do that at Mardi Gras? I think not! ---------­ F.F.? You big L ...!!!!!!!! --------­ HAPPY 21ST ERIN!!  
necessary. Call (206)971-351 0  Close to Notre Dame  Calif. actress-writer wife & photog·  That was fun.  
FOUND  extA55844  BEAUTIFUL!  rapher husband wish to adopt new- THE CUBS WILL WIN IT ALL THIS  
I accidently picked up the wrong  NORTH SHORE CLUB  born. Will provide love, nurturing  YEAR!!! RYNO IS BACK AND NO  I'm proud to say I know the owners  
jacket from Bridgets's. If you lost a Columbia jacket there, call Eddie at  FOR RENT  232-2002  environ., educ., financial security. Hollywood Hills home has large  MAN CAN STOP HIM.  of some of the sexiest hair on this campus.  
x4010.  back yard and loving dog. Call  I AM GIVING UP MY TICKETS TO  ----------­ 
-----------­ Mac Powerbook Duo 230 w/dock,  818/241-5535 collect. Legal &  GRADUATION!!! PLEASE CALL  HAPPY BIRTHDAY TURTLE  
IRISH CO. B&B REGISTRY  230 MG HD, 8 RAM, 14in. color  ConfidentiaL  ME AT 634-4334 AND ASK FOR  ----------­ 
LOST-FOSSIL WATCH  Stay at the "MOOSE KRAUSE  monitor, Multimedia kit, ext. soft­ ---------­ PAUL  Go Heels.  
I lost a brown fossil watch with a  HOUSE" or other approved homes.  ware incl. $2200, call 234-2766  GuadaTard & Shmoo ...  
brown woven band and a blue face.  Grad. · Football games  ------------­ Don't be so cruel to innocent girls  I will win  HAPPY BIRTHDAY  
It has great senti menatal value! If  219-277-7003  -----------­ I shall prevail.  ----------­ 
found please call Amy at x2326. ------------­ -------­HOMES FOR RENT  PERSONAL  Thank you, sweetheart, for the best six months of my life. You're so  Yeah Chicago. I can't wait for a  SOMETIMES IT IS "TOO MUCH"  
LOST SAPPHIRE EARRING­ 232-2595  cool. ..  brisk ten-miler in 30 degree temps  That's "MVP" Mo Vaughn, thank  
dark blue stone. Great Sentimental  --------­ I said that I wish I were a big ol' box  Love, S  around like Lake Michigan. Maybe  you.  
Value'!! If found please call Amy at  BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY  of Kraft Cheesies, cuz they're the  -----------­ Shane-0 will want to join us if he's  
4-4836  219-291-7153  cheesiest!  Golla love that caller 10...  up yet.  I said I like to WOO WOO WOO!  
------------­ --------­ -----------­ 

hiday, March H, 1996 The Observer • SPORTS page 9 

Baseball 
continued from page 12 
halting a eombinml .308, the Irish arn cnrtainly not corning up short as a result of frozen hats. 
"What WI~ nn1~d to do is get our starting pitching shored up," coru:edml Mainieri. "Wil neml to gnt into a situation wlwre nvery ganw wn go into wn know our starting pitclwr is going to give us a good 1wrforruanc1~ and keep us in llw hallgame." 
Such situations have not always matnrialiZI~d in this young smtson, as is nvidenced by tlw stairs perforrnanee during tludr last two ganws, in which more than one oiTnnsive conw­har.k was negatml by inniTeetive pitching. . 
But Mainieri rnrnains conf'i­dent in his pitchers' ability, insisting that it is just a matter of tinw bdore they find their Observer File Photo groovn. Southpaw Gregg Henebry steps into Paul Mainieri's rotation this week. 
"I rnally helievn that we have llencbry into the vacated job."good pitdwrs, both in the start­starter's slot. The importance of these next ing rotation and in tlw bullpen," "Gregg's pitehed fairly well seven games is not lost on 1~omnwntnd Mainieri. "We win when he's had the chance," said Mainieri. who remarked, "This as a tnarn and we lose as a Mainieri of Henebry, who has is basically a seven-game road 
tnarn. but the rnality of basnhall compiled a 5.40 EHA with five swing for us, and these arc our is that wlwn your starting pitch­strikeouts in five innings of last seven games prior to our Prs do a good job. you're going work. "Craig Allen is going to first Big East game. This is the 
to lw in tlw game and have-a try to work out some of his last chance to get our team chance to win." problems from the bullpen." ready to go for the Big East Thn problems with ineonsis­Mainieri would not speculate schedule." ti~IH~Y in tlw Irish pitching staff on the permanency of this Mainieri and Irish fans alike 
havn led Mainil~ri to tinker with change. saying only, "We're can only hope that the team will his starting rotation, mlegating going to play the guys who will be ready come March 23, when struggling snnior Craig Allen to get the job done. It wouldn't be the Irish open their inaugural
tlw hullp1~n while inserting fair to the team if I didn't play Big East season with a double junior left-ha!Hler Gregg the guys who are doing a good header at Boston College. 
TRAVEL EMERGENCY KIT 

Buy the easy to use Western Union Phone Card, a pre-paid calling card. 
Available at 

Serving You Comes First 
THE~:S~~­:( ~ 
-· ·­
·cLUB. 
is hiring 

BARTENDERS 
for the 96-97 Season. 
Pick up Applications at Student Activities, 315 LaFortune. 
Must be 21 + by September, 1996 
• SOHBAU.. 
Early games prepare ·tested Irish for future 
had the luxury of practicingThough just 4-6, a outdoors for the last two 
months.
ready Notre Dame On the other hand, the Irish. who will be competing outsidecarries confidence of Loftus for just the third time. have been forced to conduct
By MIKE DAY 
workouts on astroturf and in 
Sports Writer 
batting cages. "It is sometimes tough to fo­Sometimes you have to sacri­
cus in a confined area likefice something today for the 
Loftus," said second basemanbenefit of tomorrow. 
Meghan Murray. 
That's the 
"You don't get true bounces
philosophy 
off the turf and the atmosphere
the Notre 
is so much different than play­Dame softball ing outside with the wind, the
team is tak­
sun. and the grass." 
ing as they While the hitting has beenhead to solid through the first ten.Florida this games (.273 as a team), theweekend to 

Murray pitching staff will have to im­
compete in 
prove if the Irish plan on mak­
their third 
ing a run once the Big East sea­tournament in three weeks. 
son begins.
Having already played several All-American Terri Kobataof the nation's elite teams, the has lived up to her billing, earn­Irish sport a 4-6 record that is 
ing all four of Notre Dame's no way indicative of how 
wins while posting an incrediblethey've played. 
0.75 earned run average.
While their won-loss record However, No. 2 starter Joyhas suffered so far in the early 
Battersby and No. 3 hurler
going, Notre Dame is confident Angela Bessolo have had theirthat the tough schedule will pay share of problems in the earlydividends in the latter stages of going.
the season. 
Each is giving up over seven"It is always our goal to play runs per nine innings, and boththe toughest schedule possible have struggled to lind the plateat the beginning of the season," in the first two tournaments.
said Irish head coach Liz Miller. 
"Joy and Angela have not
"It helps for the players to see been as successful as we'd like,that they can play with anybody 
but we know that's going to
in the country. It's good to change," said a confident
know that were right there even Miller.
at this stage of the season." 
"They have not thrown poorlyThe squad has suffered tough at all, so they should not be dis­losses to opponents like Hawaii couraged. As a whole, I feel the
and Arizona State who have 
staff is corning along real well." 
ease Recyc e The Observer 
SESSION I Wednesday, May 29 to Wednesday, June 26 
SUiiiiiiir 

Sessions•9s 
BUSINESS ENGINEERING MATHEMATICS COMPUTER SCIENCE NATURAL SCIENCE SOCIAL SCIENCES 
THE ARTS EDUCATION COUNSELING HUMANITIES LANGUAGES NURSING 
CONTINUOUS REGISTRATION 
until the day before each session begins. 
SESSION II 
EVENING SESSION 

Friday, June 28 
Wednesday, May 29 

to Tuesday, July 30 
to Tuesday, July 30 

For Summer Bulletin. write: SUMMER SESSIONS OFFICE Or. if you prefer. call 
AA Equal Opportunrty Univer.;ily 
(610)519-4343 

r.lvi'L.:AN(,;AUNtvERSrTY-su;r:ers.=si;n7Offi;--,I
Villanova, PA 19085-1696
I Please mail me acurrent Summer Bulletin  I  
I Name  I  
I1 Address  I . I  
I City/State/ Zip  I  

L--------------------~~ 


Beth Morgan and Co. must get set for the in-your-face type of defense that is the hallmark of NCAA tournament play. 
NCAA 
continued from page 12 
anybody. We can play with any team in the nation, and we can beat anybody, too," commented sophomore sensation Mollie Peirick. 
Notre Dame will probably earn a fifth or sixth seed this Sunday, but none of the Irish players will attempt to predict the outcome. 
"I don't know what to expect. We really haven't had any bad losses this year," Morgan said. 
Notre Dame will not be a fa­vorite to reach this year's Final Four in Charlotte, North Carolina. But Peirick warns that the Irish should not be overlooked. 
"The way we played with UConn has given us a lot of con­fidence. When you get into the Top 25, I think anybody can beat anybody else." 
Irish players believe their early season trip to Hawaii pre­pared them to play in a very competitive field. The Kona Women's Basketball Classic featured several top teams that 
CINEMARK THEATRES 
appy 21 
Beautllul Girls (II) 1:20.4:05,7:10,9:411 
Sense and Senslblllty!PGl 1:15,4:15,7:15,10:05 
Black Sheep (PG-13) 1:05,3:15,5:25,7:45,1:45 
Leaving lwo Las Vegas (R) t3D, 4:20, 7:Dfi,B:5o 
Unllll'genable (8) 1:25,4:10,7:30,10:10 
Before 1111 Afl2r (PG) 1:00. 4:3D, 7:20,10:10 $3.75 ALL SEATS BEFORE 6 PM 
•NO PASSES-SUPERSAVERS ACCEPTED 

could face the Irish in the NCAA 
tourney. 

The Irish defeated Washington but suffered two close losses to Penn State and Texas A& M. 
"I think the tournament in Hawaii was really good for us. We played some of the top teams in the country," stated Morgan. 
Peirick echoed her team­mate's sentiments concerning the importance of the Hawaii trip. 
"I think we're prepared. We played some great teams at the beginning of the season," added Peirick. 
The regular season is over. The Big East tournament is over. The NCAA tournament is all that remains. 
This Notre Dame squad may be the best in our program's history. If the Irish advance to the later rounds of the NCAA Tournament, they will prove it. 
GREAT \YALL 
Voted # 1 Oriental Restaurant 1991, 1992, and 1993! Szechuan • Cantonese • American Chinese Restaurant & Lounge Open 7 Days 
Sunday Buffet Brunch • Every Sunday $8.95 for Adults $3.95 for Children 
B1rtbday ·Samurita Carrie Ratke! 
.L~. 
7~ ~ 

it. 
The Observer· SPORTS Friday, March 8, 1996 


Irish 'poll vault' into top ten 
By BRIAN REINTHALER Sports Writer 
In the polls, the Notre Dame women's tennis team continues to climb toward the top. 
This week, the Irish moved up from No.16 in the country to No. 
8. They will attempt to continue their winning ways this week­end as they host Kansas State and Drake in a Saturday double­header. 
Kansas State appears to be the tougher of the two opponents traveling to South Bend this weekend. 
Irish head coach Jay Louderback is particularly con­cerned with the first few spots in the KSU lineup. 
"They are very strong at the top," explained Louderback. "They have a few international kids in those positions who can really play." 
The reason for the coach's concern lies in the fact that the top of his lineup has been shak­en by injury as of late. Seniors Sherri Vitale and Wendy Crabtree have each been bat­tling specific ailments. Vitale is 
ERASMUS BOOKS 
•Used 
books bought and sold 

•25 
categories of Books 

•25,000 
Hardback and Paperback books 


in stock 


Don't Get
•Out-of-Print 
Search Service: $2.00 

•Appraisals 
large and small 


Open noon to six Tuesday through Sunday 1027 E. Wayne South Bend, IN 46617 (219)232-8444 

suffering from tendonitis in her wrist and a heel injury is slow­ing Crabtree. 
Coach Louderback is still a bit 
uncertain about the order of his 
lineup. 

"Wendy and Jennifer Hall will be at the one and two positions," said the coach, "but which one plays where will be determined by the status of Wendy's heel." 
As far as Vitale is concerned, the future is uncertain. 
"Sherri will not play this weekend," said Louderback. "Her wrist is a little better, but she is definitely not ready to get back into action. In fact, we are still do not have any idea when she will be healthy enough to go." 
Fortunately, the Irish have not allowed their medical problems slow them down. Due to the solid play of the rest of the Irish lineup, the team has not even missed a beat. 
The freshman Hall, who will most likely find herself at the two position on Saturday, praised the team's play sinte the since the injuries. 
"It helped to have last week-
Who said that in order to look good you had to spend a lot of money? Goodwill carries all the Brand Name clothing you like,but without the brand new prices.We have the same large, 
quality selection of clothing that you would find in the 

mall. . _but at a price that will keep you coming 
back, looking good, 
and impressing friends. So, the next time you need a particular outfit, or you're just looking for something different, give us a try. You'll find there's something for everyone at GoodwilL 
#16 Notre Dame vs. Kansas State 
10:00 a.m. 
#16 Notre Dame vs. Drake 
4:00p.m. Eck Tennis Pavilion •Admission: FREE! 
end off, but the whole team has been stepping up for the girls who are hurting," said Hall. "If we keep playing the way we have been, we should have a good weekend." 
According to Louderback, the rest of the lineup should be as follows. The three through six positions will be filled by senior Holyn Lord, freshman Marisa Velasco, junior Erin Gowan, and sophomore Molly Gavin, respec­tively. 
The combination of Crabtree and Lord will compete in first doubles. while Gavin and Hall will take on opponents in second doubles and Velasco will pair up with freshman Kelley Olson to fill the third position. 
Drake is not as strong , but Louderback is not looking past the second match of the day. 
"Drake has been playing well as of late," noted Louderback. "They always play us well but we beat them 5-4 last year. 
Left Out 
In The Cold 
Heat is Included in Your Rent! Plus Gas For 
Cooking &Hot Water 
Efficiencies from $290 
1-Bedrooms from $305 
2-Bedrooms from $375 
24-Hr. Emergency Maintenance Free Aerobics Classes Attentive Staff Community Activities Pool & Sundeck Clubhouse Air Conditioning Laundry Facilities Cable TV Available Beautiful Landscaping Close to Shopping 
272-1880 
Call or stop by today and IMl'll show you how great living at Hickory Village can be. 
+llCKORlJ 
DlLLAC3E~ 
Mon.-Fri. 8-6, Sat. 10-4 & Sun. 12-4 


friday, March 8, I':J% The Observer • TODAY page 11 
beneath it a 


fwere' 
' ' ' 
• 

STUDENT UNION BOARD Jlat)e a great spr''"9 

fOUR rOOD GROUPS OF THE APOCALYPSE ju~1 So You'~r f-oil£ -SvPf, ~o·c' fY\£ET ~o,>ll. u1 f'NDf\12.<;;>\tJfl(l.NtD1 Vouf'. ~cw'D Sl\uC.£0 r·OL\<.:;'.'G,~oups \s Gou·>6;To S\\olr' ~ov -lf\E ?toof'-L ~ou'l-l {Y\~:.£.T ~ ...• 01" 'SffZ-,1"(, 0) ~E.f\¥-... ~ ....._  DAVE KELLETT  
MISTER BOFFO lW::< IA.Q?LV AN[7 1f.1 £ WAY IT W<::x.JL--17 B6. IF= BAWJA !-lAO Acawl-.Al2 ~£  WAll U\111 L­I 12>£.1' e'AC.::: IV THE SHIP. IT ~F;S cunlt-.lb a.JT; :r. CAN I HE:AIZ A IHINb.  JOE MARTIN  


DII.BERT SCOTT ADAMS 
r-----------------------~ur------------------------­
MY PA~~WOR.D FOR. THE 
8 :t CA~.!'T GET ONLINE. ~ 1. CI\N'T SEND E·M~I\.. 
NETWORK-ISN'T WORKING 
~ BECAUSE M1' Pr..SSWORD ~ B(C~U5E.. !. Ct\N'\ 

CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 25 --Shah, 43 Not much Persian ruler 
45 Bills1 Good work, as who seized the 

by an auto 47 1915 Gallipoli 
Kohinoor

mechanic? fighter
diamond 10 Plague 
51 By the-­
26 Kink (what's more) 14 Relative of a 27 Pulitzer author 53 Some canines water ski Herbert 54 Actress Lords of15lndian 28 Dusseldorf "A Time to Die" soldier dessert 

55 Some Arab 30Drive---kings 

of old 
16 Transfers 32 Quebec's --57 "Vissi d'--" 
17 Dashed off 
Montreal (Puccini aria) 18 Navigation 33 1954 Maxwell 58 Outward, in 
hazard Anderson play, anatomy 111 Ancient Brit with "The" 59 Carried away 20 Holdup 37 Some summer &1 View from Basel 
cabins

man? &2 Therapy 39 My and thy 
21 Tip off 63 Part of PBS: 23 Electrically 
40 Already, in Allier Abbr. transmitted 42 Clipped &4 Phone book picture conjunction info 
DOWN

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 1 Masked savior 2 Constellation south of 11 Augustine's 34 Czarism, e.g. 48 Flunking scores Cygnus "The City of 35 --personae 49 Bring into God," e.g. 
3 Took care of 3& Capital city harmony 4 Train signal 12 Less than rarely once called 50 Caissons 
frameworks 13 Blemishes Batavia 52 Procter & 5 Shipping co. 15 Kind of meet 38 Needle holders Gamble brand & Raindrop's fall 22 True 41 Lover of Heloise 56 Destiny 
companion 44 Pour, as port 
Center 24 Gulf Coast bird 46 Shot from cover truck, for short &Copper 29 Mind 9 Onetime Judy 31 Doff one's 7 New York's -­60 Commercial 
Get answers to any three clues
Garland co-star derby 

by touch-tone phone: 1·900-420­
~-'-+:.,.;+"-+'-~ 10 W.W. l's Big 33 Ones with "I" 

5656 (75¢ each minute).
problems? 


YOUR HOROSCOPE JEANE DIXON 

HAPPY BIRTHDAY! IN THE on the upswing. Be careful not to NEXT YEAR OF YOUR LIFE: A neglect old pals while developing desirable career goal moves within new contacts. reach. Give your imagination free VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): rein. A job that does not tap your Your opinions carry great weight creativity will never be truly satisfy­with a younger work associate. ing. As summer approaches, a love Something you hear today could relationship shifts into high gear. provide the answer to a nagging 
Keep a close eye on spending. An question. Recreational plans could opportunity to travel should be falter if they become too complicat­greeted with enthusiasm. New sights ed. and experiences are a source of LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Rely 
inspiration. Let romantic partner on an expert's opinion if you feel know that what the two of you have that you are in uncharted waters. together, is of prime importance. Double-check financial data; it 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON could be faulty. Lunching with a THIS DAY: actress Lynn Red­friend puts you in a reflective mood. grave, composer Carole Bayer SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): A Sager, baseball player Jim Rice, leg­day when direct action and concrete endary jurist Oliver Wendell proposals will win out over more 
Holmes. 
vague promises. Getting together 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): with a co-worker after work could Today's fortunes are linked to yes­lead to new rapport. terday's events. Young or old, single SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. or married, you seem to be on the 21 ): Career and personal demands right track where your personal life may collide; stick to your priorities. 
is concerned. 
Co-workers may be difficult; seek a 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): quiet place where you can work Your advice is a big help to some­alone. one with a less disciplined attitude. CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. You can do a lot to relieve a friend's 19): Someone you count on could worry or confusion. Higher-ups are let you down. Rely on your intu­
demanding. ition. Issues facing you now are best 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): A resolved without outside influence. longtime relationship may have lost Concentrate on restoring domestic much of its former luster. See what peace. Two heads are better than you can do to turn the situation one. around. Voice the love that you feel AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): in your heart before it is too late! Join forces with someone whose tal­
CANCER (June 21-July 22): ents complement your own. Togeth­Alter your schedule to accommodate er, you will find great success! A a loved one's special needs. Certain private meeting encourages you to personal plans may have to be post­set new career goals. Enjoy group poned if you have a heavy work­entertainment this evening. load. A love relationship gradually PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): 
intensifies. Pour on the charm when talking 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Buying with someone in a position of influ­a house is a wise investment. ence. Fairness, not force, will con­Friends will be supportive if your vince someone to approve your goals are realistic. Your social life is plans. Stand your ground. 
•MENU 

Notre Dame North South Missippippi Fried Catfish Cheese Lasagna Spinach Cheese Tortellini Steamed Vegetable Vegetable Lo Mein Plate 
Baked Pollack Jtudinlere 
Saint Mary's Chicken Nuggets Quesadillas Whole Potatoes 



CELEBRATE A FRIEND'S BIRTHDAY WITH A SPECIAL OBSERVERAD. 
Wanted: Reporters, photographers and editors. Join The Observer staff. 


SPORTS 
page 12 Friday, March 8, 1996 
•LACROSSE • JOCK STRIP 
Pieces

Keenan: A Man for Both Seasons 
Basketball/lacrosse player Jimmy Keenan shifts gears. 
By RYAN KENNEDY Sports Writer 
It was late in the third period of the Notre Dame-Loyola (Maryland) lacrosse showdown last Saturday. The Irish had cut a 10-5 Greyhound lead to 10-7, and they were poisedto make a final run. Notre Dame's Jimmy Keenan collected the ball at midfield, dipped and deked for a split second, and then whipped . a deep pass to a cutting Will DeRiso, who was all alone 10 feet from the goal. DeRiso was mugged from behind and the ball came loose. 
A key opportunity provided by Keenan was gone. 
Minutes later, 12th-ranked Notre Dame found itself the vic­tim of a 14-7 thumping bynum­ber-six Loyola. But a bright spot remained in the brilliant play of Keenan. 
Only a sophomore starting in the season opener, Keenan had lit a fire under the Irish that will someday scorch the opposition. He finished with two assists in the game, and more impor­tantly, he played tireless lacrosse, never quelling the competitiveness flaring inside 
see KEENAN I page 8 
• WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 


Irish point guard Molly Peirick and teammates are looking ahead to a it together, but a lot of the well-deserved break and a certain NCAA berth. 

By TODD FITZPATRICK ·Sports Writer 
In years past, members of the the Irish women's basket­ball team spent this weekend as a group. They crowded around a television set to ner­vously await the announce­ment of their NCAA tourna­ment seed. The players watched patiently while a sportscaster informed them of their next opponent and game location. 
This year, head coach Muffet McGraw has decided to.. give her players some time off. She has cancelled practice. this weekend so many of her play­ers can travel home for a short version of spring break. · 
"We have practice tomor­row. Then we're taking Saturday, Sunday, and Monday off. We usually watch 
• BASEBAll 

Seattle, San Antonio on deck for Irish 
By DYlAN BARMMER 
spring tour with three Sports Writer games this weekend, as they head west to It's that time of the Seattle, where they school year again. Time will partake in the to put down the books Husky Baseball and hit the beaches in Classic in the search of respite from the Mariners' Kingdome. often maddeningly brutal The Classic will pit the South Bend climate. But Mainieri Irish up against seven­
while many Notre Dame students will spend the next week or so combing the beaches by day and taking in the bar scene by night, the Irish base­ball team will be hard at work, playing seven games in a nine­day span. 

time NAIA champion Lewis & Clark State on Friday, followed by games against Long Beach State on Saturday and host Washington on Sunday. 
"We have our work cut out for us this weekend," commented head coach Paul Mainieri. "Lewis & Clark State is currently 
Softball at South Florida Tournament, March 8-10 
Baseball vs. Lewis-Clark State in Seattle, March 8 vs. Long Beach State in Seattle, March 9 
Men's Tennis 
at Pennsylvania, march 11, 2 p.m. 

the top team in the NAIA; they're as good as any team in Division 1. Long Beach State is twentieth in the nation in one of the polls, and Washington will be tough to beat, since they're the host school. We're looking at three extremely tough ball games." 
The final, and on paper, less formidable, task for the Irish will come in the Notre Dame Spring Classic in San Antonio, Texas. The tournament, which runs from Wednesday, March 13 to Saturday, March 16, will see the "host" Irish face Oral Roberts, Southern Illinois, and intrastate rival Indiana before 
Lacrosse 
at Maryland-Baltimore Counry (Annapolis, MD), March 9, noon 
Women's Tennis vs. Kansas Stare, March 9, 10 a.m. vs. Drake, March 9, 4 p.m. 

Track at NCM Championships, March 8-9 
players are going home," said H:ish co-captain Beth Morgan. 
The NCAA tournament pair­ings will be announced this Sunday at 7:30 on the ESPN network. The first round games of the 64-team field are scheduled for the March 15-16 weekend. 
The Irish have certainly earned their break from play­ing basketball. Notre Dame fmished second in the Big East Conference and maintained a national ranking for the last month of the season. They are currently the No. 22 team in the country with a 22-7 record. 
Notre Dame hopes to improve on its last tournament showing during the 1993-94 season. They were eliminated by the University of Minnesota in the first round. 
"We think we can play with 
see NCAA I page 10 

they partake in either the Championship or Consolation game on the tournament's final day. 
"Oral Roberts and Southern Illinois both have a long, rich history in baseball, and Indiana has always been a rival," com­mented Mainieri. 
If the Irish are going to build on their own storied history, they will need to remedy their early-season pitching woes, which have left them with a swollen 6.39 ERA after their first nine games. With an offense that is scoring an aver­age of 6.3 runs a game while 
see BASEBALL/ page 9 
from the Big Apple 

Al
NEW YORK, NY landful of comments gathered while wonder­ng whether Big East success corresponds directly to how many .--------, 
foreigners each team has... The impli­cations of Rig East mem­bership were made abun-....._______, dantly more Tim Seymour clear when Associate Sports Notre Dame Editor and its new friends were thrown together in the playpen that is Madison Square Garden. 
A microcosm of New York itself, the Garden on opening night is a whirlwind of bands, fans, and motion. Since tickets are divided ten ways, most fans are not partisan towards the teams playing, so they cheer for excitement, not loyalty. 
On Wednesday, that's exactly what they got. None of the games was decided until the last five minutes. 
* * * * * 

Notre Dame freshman point guard Doug Gottlieb had a solid and sometimes spectacular rookie season. But he's still only the third best freshman floor general in the league. 
Providence's God Shammgod and Boston College's Scoonie Penn lack Gottlieb's flair, but their steady leadership is com­plemented by the ability to score with penetration and jumpers, which Gottlieb lacks. 
Shammgod helped ice the Friars win over St. John's with two free throws in the final minute. Most Irish fans would be reluctant to put Gottlieb in the same situation. 
* * * * * 

John MacLeod may be the conference's best dressed coach, but Providence fireball Pete Gillen is the most quotable. Some samples: 
On a St. John's stretch that included jams by Felipe Lopez and Zendon Hamilton: "It was like Dunk-athon out there; they were like 'Can you top this?' It was degree of difficulty, like they have in those swimming contests." 
On the strength of the confer­ence: "It's the best in the coun­try. The RPI, PRJ, IRP -they're a bunch of chemists some­where in South Dakota that don't know if the ball is stuffed with air or feathers." 
On his teams chances of making the tournament: "I think we deserve it, but when you put 15 men in a room, there are a lot of deals going on. Now that I live in Rhode Island I know these things." 
• 8th ranked women's tennis hosts
a) 

Kansas State, Drake 
see page 10
••--= 

• Softball heads to Sunshine State
riJ 
see page 9 

• Lax team hits the road see page 8 
~ 





