
Friday, September 6, 1996 • Vol. XXX No. 10 THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
ND, SMC continue traditions in rankings 
The results, which will hit the improving its position. After There were 229 schools listed 
University maintains upward 
newsstands in U.S. News & placing 26th in 1992, the in the national category. World Report's 1Oth annual University has finished 25th, Saint Mary's continued its America's Best Colleges issue 19th and 18th last year. hold on the top spot in its cate­

trend, College stays in first 
on Monday, ranked 1,422 Washington University also gory, besting 135 Midwest lib­
schools based on the informa­was ranked 17th. The top uni­eral arts schools. The U.S. News By MAUREEN HURLEY of colleges and universities, tion provided in surveys of col­versity, according to the rank­and World Report survey has Associate News Editor Saint Mary's position remains lege presidents, deans and ings, is Yale University, which consistently listed Saint Mary'sand BRAD PRENDERGAST the same. admissions directors; along topped Harvard for the first in the top 10 of its class in the News Editor But that's not too shabby, as with statistical data provided by time in several years. After publication's 10-year history. 
the College claimed the top spot the colleges. holding the top spot during Only one other college in any 
While Notre Dame continues among liberal arts schools in Notre Dame tied for 17th those years, Harvard fell to regional category has earned to climb the rankings in a the Midwest for the third con­among national universities, th~rd this year. Princeton fin­national magazine's latest list secutive year. continuing a five-year trend of ished second. see RANKINGS I page 8 
Friday Feature 



Dave Shock, By BRAD PRENDERGAST coordinator of 
News Editor 
Crimestoppers, goes on location 

Fame and fortune. 
Tuesday on 

Dave Shock, the coordinator of Crimestoppers, has the former,
South Bend's 

but not the latter. 
north side to film the latest Crime Shock narrates the Crime of the Week that appears on three of the Week. South Bend television stations and more than a half-dozen area 
Above, appre­radio stations, but his office is in a basement corner at the South hending the cul­Bend Police Department's headquarters. prit, played by 
Of course, Shock's filming fame doesn't match that of Kevin 
Sgt. John Kuhney 

Costner or Denzel Washington. But for a guy who spent 20 years
of the St. Joseph 

working the night shift at the police station, becoming the head of
County Sheriff's office, proves too easy for Shock. see SHOCK I page 4 
The Observer/Rob Finch 

ND student represents U.S. in Paralympics Catholic lobby 
By RUSSELL WILLIAMS 

to visit SMC
News Writer 
For two weeks this sumnwr, millions of Americans By MAUREEN HURLEY watdwd the Olympic Games in Atlanta on their televi­
Associate News Editor
sions. But for Notrn Dame junior Tim Kistner, the opportu­A national lobby organization will trynity prns1mted by the Olympies went well beyond hav­tomorrow morning to make sense of elec­ing an altnrrutlive to watehing major league baseball on tion in an effort to inform voters abouthot summer nights. 
Catholic justice issues. 
Kistnm eompntnd in the Paralympies, the two-week Network, a National Catholic Socialinternational competition for people with physical dis­Justice lobby with 25 years experience ofabilitil~s. As a memblll' of the United States Paralympic lobbying in Washington, will sponsor its soeeer t•~am. he had the rare opportunity of represent­
Election '96 Workshop on the Saint
ing the eountry in international athletie eompotition. 
Mary's campus. The major focus of the Kistrwr has eernbral palsy, a disability resulting from event is to explore how political issues a lack of oxygen to the brain before or during birth. As relate to Catholic social justice teaching. 
a rtlsult. Kistnnr nxperienees a lack of muscle coordina­Sister Regina McKilip, a Network lobby­tion. 
ist, will host the interactive, discussion­Kistrwr, who transferred to Notre Dame from Sam 
based workshop. The stop at Saint
llouston Statn University in Texas last semester, has 
The Observer/Rob Finch 
see KISTNER/ page 6 Tim Kistner helped the U.S. Paralympic soccer team finish fourth in Atlanta. see ELECTION/ page 8 

page 2 
• INSIDE COLUMN 

Apathy 
confronted 
What have you done today? I'm sure you've probably attended class­es, eaten, slept a little, and possibly even stud­ied. What's that, you haven't changed the world today? 
When I arrived at 

Notre Dame as a fresh- Sean Gallavan  
man,  changing  the  Systems Manager  
world was at the top of  

my list. It was truly a privilege to attend a university which has devoted an entire build­ing to social concerns. I was eager to fight for a clean environment, world peace, and social justice for all oppressed groups. 
Unfortunately, I soon joined the masses of apathetic Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College students. I traded in social justice for a chemistry book and never looked back. 
It wasn't until sophomore year when I came to terms with my sexuality that I remembered the value of fighting for your ideals. Obviously I have chosen to spend a large por­tion of my life fighting for the equal rights of all people regardless of their sexual orienta­tion. The important thing is not what you fight for, but that you use your time on earth to fight for something. 
Last year our campuses witnessed a remarkable thing. Students, faculty, and staff from both campuses came together to demand respect and equality for gay, lesbian, and bisexual students. Every elected body at Notre Dame passed resolutions condemning the administration's treatment of gay and les­bian students. 
The remarkable thing was that very few of the students, faculty, and staff who protested were gay, lesbian, or bisexual. These were people with nothing at stake, but were willing in some cases to risk their careers for what they felt was right. They were able to create change on one of the most conservative Catholic campuses in the nation. 
While few students would argue that the gay and lesbian issue is resolved, I can certainly say that there is less hostility on campus than when I was a freshman questioning my sexu­ality. The administration has made a signifi­cant effort to improve the quality of life for its gay, lesbian, and bisexual students. 
Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College both spend a lot of time talking about Catholic character. Unfortunately, neither institution has ever defined the term. Catholic character is not about the headcount at Sunday mass, but instead how the students choose to live their lives. 
With programs on and off campus ranging from Amnesty International to the World Hunger Coalition, there are plenty of opportu­nities for students to get involved. Many of these activities require only a few hours a week and give you something extremely valu­able: a real college education. If the only books you read are textbooks and the only let­ters you write are to your friends, you have wasted an incredible opportunity for a real education. 
If there's one thing everyone should learn at a Catholic university it's how to fight for your rights and more importantly how to fight for the rights of others. It's time that we do more than just pay lip service to our Catholic char­acter. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
• TODAY'S STAFF 
News 

Matthew Loughran Viewpoint Maureen Hurley Meaghan Smith Brad Prendergast Production 
Spons Maureen Hurley 
Tim McConn Brad Prendergast Graphics Tara Grieshop Brian Blank Candi Wilson 

The Observer • INSIDE 
• WORI..D AT A GLANCE 

Minority high school graduation rates increase 
WASHINGTON 
The high school completion rate for blacks between the ages of 25 and 29 rose to nearly 87 percent last year, reaching about the same level as their white peers for the first time, the Census Bureau said today. 
That education level for all adults 25 and older reached nearly 82 percent -the highest since it was first mea­
sured by the bureau in 1947, a Census report said. 
"This is a very profound change in one of the country's long-running, deep-seated problems -the disparity between whites and blacks in educa­tion," said Michael Casserly, director of the Council of the Great City Schools, which represents the nation's 50 largest urban school districts. 
He said he is not surprised by the finding because his group has seen evidence of this trend at the local level. The gap has narrowed because 
84 

Source: Census Bureau
schools, particularly in urban areas, have done more to keep students in school, have tailored programs for students who are faced with having to drop 
Quayle: Clinton lacks foreign respect 
DES MOINES, Iowa 
President Clinton may be struggling to hold together an international coali­tion against Iraq because his foreign policy expertise isn't widely respected overseas, former Vice President Dan Quayle said. "One of the questions I've raised as Bill Clinton faces down Saddam Hussein is what kind of response is he going to get from the 


international community?" Quayle said Wednesday in an interview. "I know firsthand that he does not have the respect that George Bush had," Quayle said. Quayle ven­tured into delicate ground with his comments about Clinton, after this week's U.S. missile strikes at Iraqi positions. Republican nominee Bob Dole has backed Clinton's decision, and many in the GOP have been reluc­tant to criticize Clinton during a time of international pressure when voters tend to rally behind the comman­der in chief. In confronting Hussein, Clinton has sought to rally the same international coalition that was formed during the Gulf War, but there has some coolness from abroad to Clinton's actions. While Quayle said it would be premature to blame Clinton, he wasn't reluctant to raise the question of Clinton's foreign policy expertise. "Bill Clinton is fairly new at it, he hasn't paid much attention to it," Quayle said. 
Jury convicts former SEAL trainee 
VIRGINIA BEACH, Va. 
Former Navy SEAL trainee Dustin A. Turner was con­victed Thursday of abducting and murdering a Georgia college student vacationing in Virginia Beach. A Circuit Court jury deliberated 8 1/2 hours over two days before returning verdicts of first-degree murder and abduction with intent to defile against Turner, 21, of Bloomington, Ind. Turner bowed his head slightly when the verdict was read, while his mother and sister sobbed. Turner declined an offer from the judge to make a statement. The family of the victim, Jennifer L. Evans, sat quietly. Ms. Evans' father, Al Evans, told reporters later that the verdict "brings some relief because we've always been very concerned about the safety of other young people. 
This is a very violent world we live in." 
• SOUTH BEND WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forcast AccuWeather"' forecast for daytime conditions and high tern ratures 
Friday Saturday Sunday\ Monday 

out and work, or leave school because Finishing school of pregnancy. 
"Finally, the effects are showing up in 
For the first time, 
national statistics," Casserly said. 
the high school 
The findings are based on data col­
completion rate for 
lected in the bureau's Current
blacks aged 25 to 29 is 
Population Survey in March 1995.
almost as high as 
Those questioned were asked to state
the rate for whites. 
the highest grade or degree they had 
90 

High school completion rates completed. Education Secretary Richard Riley highlighted the findings of the cen­88~.8 ~ sus report in a study of youth indicators 
he released today. 
86 

"The long-term rise in educational
~86;rr 
attainment for the general adult popula­

•  tion is driven principally by the replace­ 
ment of older less-educated people by  
younger people who have completed  
substantially more education," the  
report said.  
The percentage of adults aged 25 and  
older who said they had completed at  
least high school peaked not only for the  
API Amy Kranz  entire population, but for each sex and for both blacks and whites. The propor­ 

tion of adults who had earned a bachelor's degree also was at a record high-23 percent last year. 
Capsized boat kills three fishermen 
BOSTON 

Steve Smith reached out with a harpoon and tapped on the hull of the capsized fishing boat. He heard a rapping in response -strong at first, but then fainter and fainter until there was only silence, followed by what sounded like sucking air. By the time the Coast Guard arrived with rescue divers, it was too late. All three commercial fish­ermen trapped in the boat were dead. "We just felt com­pletely helpless," said Smith, himself a fisherman. "There was nothing we could do." The dead included a fisherman out on the boat for the first time. The vessel, the 45-foot Heather Lynne II, flipped in the fog Thursday morning 45 miles northeast of Boston near a tugboat that was towing a barge. The bodies were pulled from under the boat more than two hours after the 5:24 a.m. distress call. Coast Guard officials said they didn't know how the accident happened. But the crew of the tugboat Houma claimed the Heather Lynne II was trying to pass between the tug and the barge. The New York-based Eklof Marine, which owns the tug, also owned the barge which ran aground Jan. 19 off the coast of Rhode Island, spilling 828,000 gallons of home heating oil into Block Island Sound. It was Rhode Island's worst oil spill. Smith, who was just starting his own day of fishing, was anchored half a mile away when he heard a crash. "We heard the horns from the tug and then a huge crash and immediately got over to the scene," Smith said. 
Sister of Tennessee Williams dies at 87 
TARRYTOWN, N.Y. 

Rose Williams, the institutionalized sister who was a source of pain and inspiration for the late playwright Tennessee Williams, died Wednesday. She was 87. In the late 1930s she underwent a prefrontal lobotomy to cure a worsening case of schizophrenia. The operation failed, and Rose was institutionalized. The tragedy affected Tennessee Williams profoundly. She became the model for the sister in "The Glass Menagerie." Williams left the proceeds from his $10 million estate to support her, directing the rest be spent to support aspiring writers at the University of the South at Sewanee, south of Nashville. Her death means that the rights to Williams' plays and the remainder of his estate -valued at $7 mil­lion-will go to Sewanee. 
• NATIONAl WEATHER 
The AccuWeather®forecast for noon, Friday, Sept. 6. 
Unes separate high temperature zones for the day. 


Accent Lab Tech Dan Cichalski 
Katie Kroener 


~'~'~@~~ ~ ~ d

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday 
Showers T·storms Rain Fl~,;ies S~o-~ Ice Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy

c:xcep£ during exam and vaca£ion periods. The Observer is a member of 
Via Associat9d Prsss Graph/csNet 

the Associa«d Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
·.,_.... 
Tuesday 
:" ~ ... \'#""' /'''·: , ..
,\)"''-; '··v ....e 


Friday, September 6, 1996 
Lending a Helping ... Hogg 
Six thousand leather-clad, tattooed, llarlcy-owning bikers packed a field on the north side of Michiana airport Sunday afternoon after riding 55 miles through Indiana countryside and back. They ate, drank, and listened to rock and roll. And they did it for charity. 
The rally, in its 16th year annually, helped raise over $120,000 for tho Muscular Dystrophy Association (MDA) and was run by ABATE, the American Bikers Aimed Toward J·:ducation. a politieal action group locatod regionally in 
l~lkhart. 
"W•~'re just a group of people who band together and share a 1:ommon interest. Because we have the numbers, we can do good things," volunteer Jim Berkshire said. But he and otlwr bikers understand the misconception that many have of a "tough" biker image, one that is often untrue. 
"It's too had that bikers get such a bad rap. Most of the orws I know have the biggest hearts and would do any thing for anyorw, espedally the kids (with muscular dystrophy) that wn'rn helping today," ride participant Tara Miller of Mishawaka said. But Berkshire admits that some riders adlwn~ to tlw stereotypical "fifties movie image." 
"There is an element in cycling that wouldn't show up to this bemuse it would destroy their image. We have to fight for this image," Berkshire said. 
The children benefiting from the ride's proceeds all receive treatment at local hospitals in neighboring counties. Many att1~nd a three day MDA camp organized by ABATE in June, and few ABATE volunteers can explain the event without reiterating that "it is 
all for the kids." 
"It (eydingl repre­s•~nts a freedom to tlwm that thoy will n1wm have. Our goal is to rwver have to do this again ­to lind a cure. Then thon~ will bo a party," volunteer .I udy Ecklebarger said. 
Observer 
Photos by 
Rob Finch 
Story by 
Michelle 


Krupa 

Following the ride, many of the bikers 
found time to rest before the Charlie 
Daniels Band came onto stage. 
Ed Clifton, of Elkhart, affectionately dubbed "Hog" by his friends, chews on a cigar as he awaits some of the festivities to beg in. 

The procession traveled right past campus down Route 31 on the course of their 55 mile ride for charity. 


-____.,.-----------, 

page 4 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS Friday, September 6, 1996 
crime." But Shock cautioned: "Those aren't

Shock 
paying jobs. You can get some fame, per­haps, but no fortune."continued from page 1 
Shock selects his Crime of the Week on Crimestoppers, a program that pays the recommendation of the coordinators rewards of up to $1,000 for the arrest or of each of the 12 counties, or from other indictment of suspects involved in a case, police officers who especially need help in was a dream come true. a particular case. 
Before taking over the program in "I judge the case to see if it is serious September 1991, Shock was working enough or big enough in the community's evenings four nights each week at a interest," Shock said. "For example, there liquor store and going to school at was a case where 500 tombstones were Indiana University-South Bend on two completely destroyed by vandalism. We other evenings. did a spot on it because it was something 
"Honestly, I didn't know about that was tugging at the heartstrings of Crirnestoppers when I applied for the the community." job," said Shock, who holds a degree in But most of the time, the crimes are sociology and as associate's degree in law those in which investigators have simply enforcement from IUSB. "Before, I was run out of leads and are turning to either working or sleeping. I didn't know Crimestoppers for last-ditch help. what else was going on (in the Police Reward amounts are determined on a Department). case-by-case basis by St. Joseph County's 
"I had a lot of fun working at nights, Crirnestoppers Board of Directors, which there were some good times, and it was pays out rewards for crimes solved in any satisfying," Shock continued. "But it was of the 12 counties. also repetitious. The year before (corning Since Crirnestoppers was organized in to Crirnestoppers) I told my wife that I the area in 1983, it has paid more than wanted to be more involved in communi­$300,000 in rewards for information. ty-type activities." Shock processes the tips that come in 
And now that is exactly what he does. each day with the help of Patty Fraser Besides assisting 98 different law and Amanda Johnson, who monitor the enforcement agencies in a 12-county phones and keep the files up to date. area that includes St. Joseph County and The trio's day begins at 1 a.m., when extends into Michigan, Shock frequently they fax the "Hot-Car Quick 50" -a pro­appears at community functions. gram designed to reward car phone 
That includes a few at Notre Dame callers with $50 for information leading where he has become a favorite among a to the recovery of a vehicle stolen the small section of the student population. In night before -to area radio stations. February, he served as one of the judges "We're hoping that during the morning of the Troop ND talent show and the drive period, someone will spot a car and Fisher Regatta, and several years ago he give us a call," Shock said. "The cellular guest-starred in a student film that phone industry has opened up a million appeared at the Morrissey Hall Film Fest. eyes for the law enforcement industry." 
Shock creates his own movies when he As Shock talked in his basement office, films the Crime of the Week every a brief glimpse at the phone console Tuesday morning. A typical revealed that Crirnestoppers does not, in Crirnestoppers shoot includes a reenact­fact, have Caller ID. ment of the crime, and Shock fmds his actors where he can. 
He has used people from Sears, where he used to work. He's used mechanics who work in the garage behind the police station. He's even used his wife to portray the victim on several occasions, and his dog also has gotten into the act. 
"I try to find somebody who resembles the victim or the suspect in the case," Shock said. "If you were to call me up and wanted to, be in the reenactment, I'd try to match you with someone in the 

Sponsored by The Office of Campus Ministry
Campus Bible Study Rev. AI D'Alonzo, CSC, Director Campus Ministry Badin Hall 631-5242 
All students invited to attend inter-faith Bible Study 
Every Tuesday -7:00 p.m. 
Office of Campus Ministry 
Conference Room -Badin Hall 


Well worth the wait 
Directed by: Rev. 


FIRST MEETING TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 10, 1996
0MPUS 
MINISTRY 
7:00 p.m. 
.., 
I 
I 
I 
I

r-Fn~'Y· S<p='_6_,1_9_9_6___-_----~~--______T:....:h:.:..:e:.....:O::..b:....:s:.::erv:...:...:..:er:.....:•_CA=-:=M-=-==P--=U=-=-S--=N~E:....:W:...:.....=S~-----------------~p:.....:ag~e_:_5 I 
I

Three seniors on display in Nebraska showcase I 

By JILLIAN M. PAGLIOCCA 
News Writer 

During the first weekend of fall break, three Notre Dame seniors will find them­selves in the company of royalty. 
Selected to participate in the 100th Ak­Sar-Ben Coronation Ball in Omaha, Neb., on Oct. 19, Elizabeth McCarthy, Michael Ruma and Kara Slowiaczek will repre­sent their families in the honorary event. 
Each year, the Knights of Ak-Sar-Ben -"Nebraska" spelled backwards -rec­ognize outstanding leaders from around the state. Princesses, countesses, escorts and pages represent their families, who are recognized for their contributions to the region. 
The self-sustaining, fund-raising event annually raises approximately $150,000 for the Ak-Sar-Ben four-year college scholarship program. 
"The Ak-Sar-Ben coronation is held each year to raise money for the Ak-Sar­Ben Youth Scholarship Fund and to honor families who have made special and distinctive contributions to their communities," said Teri Teutsch, chair of the Ak-Sar-Ben Women's Ball 

INSTANT TANNING IS HERE! 
Absolutely No Risk of Burning No Premature Aging 
Be Tan in Just Three-Four Sessions 
One Tenth of the Time of Conventional Beds The Future of Tanning is Here! Call Today for Your Appointment and Our Special Prices! 
I!!~ 3017 Kossuth St. 
~ BRONZ 

Lafayette. IN 4 7905 tanning salons 3 I 7-447-4786 
CHECK ITO 
•, 
Coffee, Espresso, Cappuccino Btg Screen TV Bagels, Muffins, Donuts, Dantsh Hot and Cold SandWiches 
Ch1ps, Frutt, Snacks Salads and Homemade Soup 

Monday -Friday
open 
7:30 am -2:30pm 
Committee. 
Wearing the honorary title of "princess," McCarthy and Slowiaczek will join the 22 other princesses and 22 countesses named to this year's court. Ruma is one of 48 escorts among the 21 to 26 year olds participating. 
During the televised ball, the king and queen of Ak-Sar-Ben will be crowned. The king, who is chosen based on com­munity contributions, and the queen, who is selected from among those deigned "princess," will represent the organization at a variety of events in the coming year. 
Established in 1895, the Knights of Ak­Sar-Ben declared their mission "to build a more prosperous Heartland, where communities can flourish and every child can succeed." Their name was suggested by one of the founding fathers of the organization, who perceived that "every­thing seems to be going backwards these days." 
Over the past four decades, the orga­nization has contributed approximately $24 million to various agricultural, civic, charitable and educational endeavors. Scholarships have been awarded to 
youths since 1945, in excess of $10 million. Ak-Sar-Ben's tradi­tional Coronation Ball is the major source of funds for the scholar­ship program. 
The hype for the event is consid­erable. Although the members of the court were notified of their selection last spring, it was not until August that the selections were made public. "It's supposed . to be a big secret," explained McCarthy. 
At a gathering of the young women in August, windows and doors of the boutique where the meeting took place were covered to keep the identities of the women under wraps. 
For the young men involved in the pageant, this is a chance for them to make career connections. Through a mentoring program which matches them with busi­nessmen and leaders from the region, escorts are able to make contact with established profes­sionals chosen because of their civic involvement. 
Entertainment Electronics Co. 
·~ou break It, we'll fix it!!'' 
Car &Home Stereos VCRs • TVs • Camcorders CD Players • PCs 
call 255 -1172 3509 N. Grape Road (at Classic Stereo) 
hours: Mon -Frl: I 1-5 Sat: 10-2 
PG 
*1:30 4:15 7:00.-"'9:""'50'--------­
Traialpotllac -~ 
*2:00 4:30 7:15 9'.30 
........ ---pc-----­*12:30 *2:45 5:15 7:30 Counlce u~~~~er Flrell-­10:00 
* Sat Sua Matl-O.ly 


------, 

~6 c ,
~~~----------------------------------~T~h~e~O~b~se~IT~e~r~·~A]J~~P~U~S~~~E~~~S~----------------------~F~r~id5~~·~S~ep~te~m~b~e~r~6~,~19~9~6 
Kistner 
continued from page 1 

followed in his father Tom's footsteps, who graduated from Notre Dame in 1965. 
The Houston native and Fisher Hall resident started playing soccer in sixth grade. "As a student at the University of Houston, my sister met some­one who was involved in dis­abled sports, so she introduced me to him," Kistner said. 
As an eighth-grader in 1990, Kistner first played soccer com­petitively. One year later, dur­ing the summer of 1991, his contributions to a Houston area team consisting of players with similar disabilities won the Texas state title. 
Later that same summer. Kistner was chosen to compete for the prestigious United States Paralympic soccer team. The team consisted of players with cerebral palsy or who had suf­fered serious strokes and head injuries. 
His first tournament as a Paralympic team member was the Paralympic trials in the United Kingdom, where the team defeated France for its win ever. 
Following the trials, the team went to Barcelona to compete in the 1992 Paralympics. Although the team finished eighth in an eight-team field, the Barcelona Paralympics pro­vided the first chance for the United States to field such a soccer team. 
Kistner and his teammates 
did not work out again until 
1995, when the team held a 
spring training camp at the 
University of Georgia. 
Following the spring camp and 
a summer practice session in 
Dallas, the team traveled to 
Argentina to compete in the 
Pan-American Paralympic 
games. 

This time around. the team ·put on a strong showing, finish­ing third. "Argentina was one of the 
best trips I've had. We were 2­1 and won the bronze medal. In addition, our hosts were very kind to us," Kistner said. 
Kistner was one of only three players from the Barcelona Paralympic team to be selected to play in the 1996 Paralympics. In Atlanta, the team was placed in a pool with Brazil, Russia, and Ireland. The team advanced to the medal round based on strong showings against Ireland and Brazil. 
"We beat Ireland 3-0 and Brazil 3-1, and that was very rewarding. No one thought we were capable of winning any games at all," Kistner said. 
The team then lost to Spain in the consolation match, finishing fourth out of eight teams. 
"It was an emotional letdown to lose, because we lost a 1-0 lead in the second-half, but the special friends I made at the soccer venue really helped out," he said. 
Kistner has experienced many special moments as a Paralympic soccer player off the field as well. During a break at the 1995 Paralympic Festival in Colorado Springs, Kistner met Carl Lewis and Dan O'Brien. And before the game versus Brazil in Atlanta. Kistner and his teammates got to meet with world famous soccer player and former Brazilian star, Pel e. 
"That still hasn't registered yet. It was so exciting to meet Pele," Kistner recalled. 
One aspect of the 1996 Paralympics that Kistner found especially humorous and exciting was the body­guard assigned to protect him from crowds of autograph seekers. 
"I couldn't believe it when a guy came up to me and said he was my bodyguard for the Atlanta Paralympics, but then a mob of people came up and mobbed me for autographs. That was a really cool feeling, especially after the loss to Spain," Kistner said. 
Aside from being a star soc­cer player, Kistner set the national 400 meter track record for athletes with cere­bral palsy. 
But Kistner eventually gave up track to focus on soccer. "I would run and work out with the track teams at Sam Houston State and here at Notre Dame, but when it came time to compete, I was all alone and couldn't participate." 
But Kistner doesn't feel remorse for the decision to give up track and focus o.n soccer. "We have a great group of guys on the soccer team and I saw some great potential. I have made three or four really strong friend­ships with guys on the team," Kistner said. 
. 1ft
Troop 
Samt Mary's Colle~ 
NOTRE DAME·INDIANA 
N.D. 

Notre Dame & St. Mary's only Hip-Hop Dance Club 
Organizational Meeting 
Monday, September 9, 1996 8:30PM Montgomery Theater, LaFortune 

Football Ticket Exchange Extended to ALL Games!!! 
The Athletic Department and the Athletic Resources Department of Student Government announce a ticket exchange program for all six games in '96. Each student ticket holder may exchange up to 2 student tickets for GA's during the season, plus a $16 exchange fee. 
How many tickets are available?? September 14 vs. Purdue-400 tickets September 28 vs. Ohio State -400 tickets October 12 vs. Washington -300 tickets October 19 vs. Air Force -300 tickets November 16 vs. Pittsburgh -400 tickets November 23 vs. Rutgers -400 tickets 
• All persons exchanging tickets must be present at time of exchange • 
Remember that exchanges take place on Tuesday, Wednesday, and Thursday of the week prior to the game at the Joyce Center ticket office. 
Questions? Call Student Government at l-6283 
Facelift 

The Observer/Sarah O"Connor 

The interior renovation of the Dome proceeds on schedule. 

• Silver Rings • Hemp Jewelry 
,--H---"::0--UR--S:---,
We Buy 
0 . M-F: 10-7
Used 

10% OFF 
Sat: 10-6
Levi's 

with student ID closed Sun. 
Just 2.5 mi North of IN state line
THE 
1912 S. 11th, Niles Belle Plaza
smE 
687-9123

CO., INC. 
·---= ~ 

INDIANA UNIVERSITY· 
· SOUTHBEND 
CO~GEDUCATION 
English Classes for Speakers ofOther Languages English for Speakers of Other Languages 
Improve your conversation and understanding of written and spoken English. 
Mondays, Sept. 9-Nov. 25, 6:30-9 p.m. at IUSB, $189. 
Pronunciation and Speech Improvement for Speakers ofOther Languages 
Specially designed to improve your business presentations. Ideal for MBA students. 
Tuesdays, Sept. 10-Nov. 26, 6:45-9:15 p.m. at IUSB, $189. 
TOEFL Review 

Learn to better your score on the Test of English as a Foreign Language. 
Thursdays, Sept 12-Nov. 7, 6:30-9:30 p.m. at IUSB, $189. 
To register, or for information, call IUSB Continuing Education, 237-4261. 
-r..-~F-ri~d~ay-.s-~-p-te-mb_e_r_G_,1-9-9-6----~ ---~--T-h_e_O~bs-erv-er_•_M_ID_D_L_E_EA__S_T____~--~ -~­
France supports U.S. attack on Iraq 
~---------p-ag_e_7_____, 
U.S. denied access to Turkey 
By ZEYNEP ALEMDAR 
Associated Press Writer 
ANKARA. Turkey 

In Washington's eyes, Turkey used to be a staunch ally that opened its air bases · to U.S. jets fighting Iraq in the Gulf War. 
Six years later, led by a prime minister from an Islamic party, Turkey appeat·s less willing to coop­erate with the United States on such missions and more intent on protecting its own interests, including battling its own Kurdish rebels. 
Kurdish rebels have been fighting for autonomy from Turkey since 1984. More than 21,000 people have died in the Turkish-Kurdish fighting, some of lt in rebel hit-and-run raids from across the border in north­ern Iraq. 
On Thursday, Turkish jet fighters attacked suspected Kurdish rebel camps in northern Iraq, and a govern­ment official said Turkish troops would move into northern Iraq to prevent Kurdish rebels from entering Turk(1y as they flee fighting there. 
While the Turkish govern· ment seemed firm in its desire to keep the rebels from crossing the border, it appeared less willing to cooperate with the United States in its missions against Baghdad. 
U.S. aircraft have bombed Iraqi positions this week after Baghdad sent troops to dislodge an Iraqi Kurdish faction from the main city in northern Iraq. 
Prime Minister Necmettin Erbakan has remained silent about the attacks. but Abdullatif Sener, the finance minister and a close Erbakan aide, criticized the U.S. offensive -apparently on Erbakan's behalf. 
"The problems of a certain region must be handled by the countries which belong to that region," Sener said. "I do not think it is healthy for some countries to see themselves as the single resolver" of problems. 
Hey Sophomores!.!·! 
Come to your Class Mass 

Sunday, September 8, 1996 at the Grotto 8:00pm 

Fr. joe Ross, C.S.C. Presider 
Electi • 196 Workshop 
1:30-3:00p.m. Sun., Sept. 8 
Free Food! ! ! 
.. 
~ 
~ 

-\ ' ,.. -\ _.. I I I 
_-; Barg'ai~s a',<-~ Treasures Galore 
-' ' 
' I ­
Historic District 
Yard Sale 

W. Washington Et Chapin Sts. 
Across from Northern Indiana Historical Society 

Saturday, September 7th 
I  '  ' ,,  8 a_m-5 pm  
'  '  
-" ,..  I  

'Raindate: Sunday, Sept. 8 
By BARRY SCHWEID Associated Press Writer 
PARIS 

Buoyed by Britain's strong support of America's military actions in Iraq, Secretary of State Warren Christopher today won limited support from France in patrolling no­fly zones over Iraq. 
However, French planes will not operate in the newly expanded area in the south, whkh reaches to the outskirts of Baghdad. In this respect, Christopher's back-to-hack meetings with President Jacques Chirac and Foreign Minister Herve de Charette fell short of U.S. objectives. 
Beginning Monday, French crews will join the United States and Britain in making sure Iraqi warplanes do not enter the old zones and men­ace Kurds and Shiites in the safe havens below, the French Foreign Ministry announced. 
"The United States welcomes 

College Republicans 
presents 
FRIDAY'S MEN NIGHT 
All men admitted free before 11 pm; free admission all night to anyone wearing a tool pouch 
MONDAYS AND TUESDAYS it's PENNY NIGHT all night at ]azzman's! 
Jazzman's general admission Wed-Fri is $1.00 before II pm, $3.00 after I I pm. 21 and over with proper ID -no 10, no admittance -state law 
DOORS OPEN AT 9:00PM 
the continuation of France's participation as an impor­tant member of the coali­tion," State Department spokesman Nicholas Burns said. 
The French statement said Christopher had "confirmed the end of the American operation 'Desert Strike' in Iraq" -referring to the attack of Iraqi military tar­gets by cruise missiles. However, a senior U.S. offi­cial, insisting on anonymity, said Christopher had not given any assurance to the French ruling out any fur­ther U.S. strikes. 
And Burns said: "American policy and American action will be based very much on what Saddam Hussein does. The United States does retain any option ... in the future to counter the efforts of Sad dam Hussein." 
·"The United States intends to enforce the new zone," Christopher declared after meeting with de Charette. 
France has been sharply criti­

in the south, but also have not
cal of the U.S. military actions 

flown the full expanse of the
this week in Iraq. 

old zone, according to a
French air crews not only 

French spokesman -an
have refused to venture into 

apparent protest of U.S. policy. 
RHA MEETING 
MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 9 
9:15 P.M. 
COME AND GET INVOLVED. 
PIZZA AND BREADSTICKS WILL BE PROVIDED ••• 
IRAQ

Iraqi troops backed by some 150 tanks attack Kurdish positions 
:--------··------y--·­
!'-·~R~~·---:y· '·--J, Map --·· Mosul ... deta1·1
iNo-fly zone · • · . 
---:.r---· -· ·F""=f..,....., 361h parallel 
1 SYRIA ( L.tJ \ 
, i Kirf<uk ~· 
•. J~~~t;!/ IRAQ / IRAN 
~.,:'-t::~~ -· 
~ ',,, aHskandiariyah ai·Kut ""{"'parallel 
:No-fly zon'e'~ Nasiriyah / 1 '·,, o Basra: I o U.S. targets I'--~ ., 11'1 A"rf' old • 1.,
1 1B I I 19 "-' ).,J

I SAUDI / ~ .
, 100 miles '',,, 
~ ARABIA , _____ __( ~ers1an
1ookm KUWAJT · 
L --··· ···-----·· .. .. ~uiL.. AP/Carl Fox 
the extended Iraqi no-fly zone 

page 8 The Observer • NEWS Friday, September 6, 1996 
of a school's students and the school's tuition fees. They then

Fran moves in on Carolinas Rankings 
compared those numbers with 
By EMERY DALESIO 
Associated Press Writer 

WILMINGTON, N.C. 
Hurricane Fran came ashore at Cape Fear on Thursday, bat­tering the Carolinas with 115 mph winds, ripping apart trees and blowing rain sideways as thousands of people scrambled for safety. 
Fran accelerated and veered slightly to the east before the north wall of its 25-mile wide eye passed over the cape just before 8 p.m. and then churned up the Cape Fear River to Wilmington, about 45 miles to the north. 
"The wind has been scream­ing, blasting through here. But right now it's calm," Grover Gore, 65, said as the hurricane's eye passed over him in Southport. near the mouth of the river. 
Gusts as high as 120 mph were reported as the brunt of the storm moved north. By 9 p.m., the eye was over Wilmington and the storm's worst winds were tearing up the coastal communities imme­diately to the east. 
"It is pounding and pounding and pounding," said Mary Wasson, riding out the storm 
with her daughter in....--------------------------. 
Wilmington, where their house narrowly missed being hit by a sycamore tree. 
"The top 35 feet snapped off and did a somersault in the air over part of our house. It did a 180 in the air," said Ms. Wasson, whose house, like most in the city, was without power. "It is just windy as the Dickens." 
Fran was causing widespread damage across the coastal coun­ties of southeast North Carolina, the National Weather Service said, not to mention panic among some of those who had ignored evacuation orders. 
In Carolina Beach, southeast of Wilmington, a frantic group of people who stayed in The Breakers condominium called 911 saying the building was col­lapsing in the storm surge. It turned out that floating cars were slamming into the building, said David Paynter, a spokesman for New Hanover County. 
At any rate, they were stuck; it wasn't safe for rescue offi­cials to try to reach them, Paynter said. 
More than a half-million tourists and residents had been ordered to evacuate the coast in North and South Carolina as Fran drew near, leaving a string of deserted beach towns. 
"Believe you me, we wanted to get out of there," said Audrey Landers, who fled her town­house a block from the ocean with her neighbors and their children. They took shelter at a high school in Conway, S.C., 15 miles inland. 
Hurricane warnings were posted from Edisto Beach, S.C., to the Virginia line. People living as far inland as West Virginia were warned to expect tropical storm-force winds and 5 to 10 inches of rain. 
Waves were crashing 10 feet high along the shore at Myrtle Beach, where the usually bustling Ocean Boulevard was deserted and driving was all but impossible with sheets of rain 
The Observer 
is accepting applications for the following paid position: 
Viewpoint Editor 
Applicants should have editorial writing skills, editing skills, and an ability to deal with the public. The Viewpoint man­ager manages a staff of copy and layout editors a~d colum­nists. The manager also decides the content ~ch day. Applications due Monday by 5 p.m. 
Call Liz Foran at 631-4542 for information. 
blown horizontal by gusts reach­ing 55 mph. 
In North Topsail Beach, one of the beach towns hardest hit by Hurricane Bertha in July, a dou­ble-wide mobile home housing the town hall and police station either washed or was blown away. 
One motorist, a 66-year-old woman from Conway, was killed when her car hit standing water and flew down an embankment into a tree. 
More than 9,000 people in both the Carolinas took refuge in hundreds of shelters. 
In Calabash, just above the state line, Thomas Wynn's neighbors heeded the mandato­ry evacuation, but the 72-year­old World War II veteran decid­ed to ride out the storm in his wood frame house. "I've been under fire before," he said. 
Lynn High. owner of Calabash Marina and Storage, pulled boats out of the water, put ply­wood over windows, then took off -with memories of Hurricane Hugo on her mind. 
That huge storm caused almost $8 billion in damage, mostly in South Carolina, and killed 35 people as it tore through the Caribbean and up the East Coast. 


ANNOUNCES EXTENDED AUDITIONS One Night Only! 
'TIAtSDA!j, StP'TJl!ltJ3tY< 10, 1996 8:Lt5-10:Lt5 p.m. 

for an audition tim_e ~ 
•
Positions available for men and women singers and dancers 

•
Over 15 performances ayear 


•Only 6hour~ per week 
•Members of all Notre Dame and Saint Mary's choirs are encouraged to audition 
continued from page 1 
the number one rank three years in a row. 
In a new feature to the col­lege issue, schools in the national category were ranked according to value. To figure this, researchers computed a predicted graduation rate, based on entrance exam scores 
Election 
continued from page 1 
Mary's is the first of a tour around the nation before the November elections. 
Sponsored by the Sisters of the Holy Cross Justice Committee, this weekend's Network workshop is intend­ed to provide an inside view into "looking at legislature through the lens of Catholic social teaching," said Sister Ann Oestreich, justice coordi­nator of the Sisters of the Holy Cross. 
A wide range of issues and their impact on the upcoming elections in both presidential 
ONE NIGHT SOCCER TOURNAMENT THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 12 6:00 -STEPAN CENTER 
0:::==~~\
FIELD IS 60 YD. BY 40 YD. .,_..--4 ...·· 
5 ON 5 PLUS GOALIE -.-..~/* ~­REGISTER ATEAM IN THE RECSPORTS OFFICE \ •
''-·•/j 

DEADLINE IS WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 11 TOURNAMENT IS LIMITED TO THE FIRST 12 TEAMS THAT ENTER 
FOR MORE INFORMATION CALL RECSPORTS AT 631-6100 
WFRN Concert Update 
Twila Paris 
with Special Guests 

Aaron Jeoffrey & Avalon SUNDAY, SEPTEMBER 8 
Elco Theater • Elkhart, IN 

TICKETS: $13.50/$11.50 Tickets on Sale • Monday, July 29 




JD Sumner &. Ute Stamps 
SATURDAY, SEPTEMBER 14 
First Church of God Goshen, IN 
TICKETS: $8.50 Tickets on Sale -Monday, August 5 
Kathy Troccoli and Phillips, Craig & Dean 
THURSDAY, OCTOBER 3 
Morris Civic Auditorium South Bend, IN 

TICKETS: $12.50/$10.501$8.50 Tickets on Sale -Monday, August 26 
Jim Cole Bt Kelly Willard 
FRIDAY, OCTOBER 4 
Rrst Baptist Church • Peru, IN TICKETS: $8.50 Trckets on Sale • Saturday, August 21 
Michael Card Bt Wes King 
SATURDAY, NOVEMBER 16 
Elco Theater • Elkhart. IN 
TICKETS: $12.50/$10.50 Tickets on Sale -Friday. October4 
SUNDAY, NOVEMBER 17 Kokomo High School Kokomo, IN 
TICKETS: $10.50 Kokomo. Tickets on Sale Friday, October 4 
For tickets call WFRN Radio: 219-674-6626 • 219-875-5166 • 800·522-WFRN 
actual graduation rates. Notre Dame took the 37th spot in this category. 
The rankings with regard to value were not compiled in regional categories. 
In addition, individual col­leges within universities were evaluated. Notre Dame's Business School claimed the 24th rank in that category. 
and congressional races will be discussed, in order to discover the candidates' true stand on each of the issues, and what voters can do to make their voices heard, according to Oestreich. 
"All morning, we'll look at issues in the 1996 campaign, and see where the candidates fall in terms of Catholic teach­ing," said Oestreich. "It's real­ly important that students take part in this, since it will be the first time most of them will take part in a national elec­tion." 
The workshop will take place tomorrow from 9 a.m. to 12:30 
p.m. in the Lourdes Assembly Hall on the Saint Mary's cam­pus. 
---~ --~----­

friday, September 6, 1996 The Observer· WASHINGTON NEWS page 9 
Congress debates shutdown FTC investigates fake 
By JIM ABRAMS 
Associated Press W ritcr 
WASHINGTON 
.Just days after returning to work, Congress is behind sehedule in passing spending hills and Republicans and Dmnoerats already are passing around blame in ease there is another government shutdown. 
Senate Majority Leader Trent !.ott. H-Miss., accused Democrats on Thursday of stalling action on appropria­tions hills with an eye to creat­ing an issue in the presidential fller.tion. "I have a sneaking suspieion there is a slow­rolling process already being planned," he said. 
"We're about to have the government shut down again," said House Minority Leader l>iek Gephardt, D-Mo. "We tHwd to do our work, we need 
to keep the government from shutting down." 
Congress must send the pres­ident 13 bills appropriating funds for federal programs before Oct. 1, when fiscal year 1997 begins. 
So far, President Clinton has signed only one -a $54 billion bill to fund agriculture and nutrition programs. On Thursday, the Senate approved two of the smaller bills, $10 billion for military construction and $719 million for the District of Columbia. On Tuesday, it passed a measure funding the legislative branch at $2.17 billion. 
But with time running out before the fiscal year begins and lawmakers eager to leave town to campaign, big-ticket bills for education, the envi­ronment, defense, foreign affairs and housing remain 


Register in Advance at (~t.'<!~ports :. Rq;istration Fcc is $17,ll0 Cull631-6100 for more Int~) 
..............................
.-·~ 
The benefits of our IRA program last alifetime. But this oHer won't. 
I l"tlll.\jcr ...,.! 'i,IJ()() hl ''"fl/t'lllh£'1" w tf/1(1 g£'1 ,, 1-!/etilllt' 'o-<.11.1/odia/ F,,,, IUA. 
Prudential Securities is offering you the opportunity of a lifetime. Just transfer or roll over $25,000 or more into a Prudential Securities IRA by September 30 and we'll waive the annual custodial fee-for life. And that means more money working even harder for your retirement. 
But just because this IRA comes with no fee, doesn't mtan it comes with no advice. A Prudential Securities Financial Advisor is always there to help makl· sure you're meeting your investment goals. 
And our lifetime no-custodial fee IRA provides the perfect opportunity to consolidate your retirement funds in one place, making it easier to keep track of them. So call today for more information about our IRA program. 
Prudential Secur1t1es~ 
K N 0 W I N G T H E I N V E S T 0 R'" 
THOMAS J. DERWENT 
Financial Advisor 431 East Colfax Avenue, Suite 100 South Bend, IN 46617 219-236-4700 or 800-348-2323 
unresolved. 
The House passed all 13 bills before Congress recessed in August, but the Senate trails behind. 
Since returning to work Tuesday, the Senate has been trying to wade through dozens of amendments to an $84.7 bil­lion bill to fund veterans, hous­ing, space and other programs. 
Lott, referring to the Democrats, said: "They may like the idea of a government shutdown, because last time Bill Clinton shut the govern­ment down, he blamed it on Congress." 
The confrontation between the GOP-controlled Congress and the White House over spending priorities and a bal­anced budget resulted in two partial government shutdowns last winter. 
Polls showed that most Americans felt the Republicans were more at fault in causing the crisis. 

scholarship offers 
By DEB RIECHMANN 
Associated Press Writer 
WASHINGTON 
Bogus scholarship search services bilk students and their families of millions of dollars every year, the Federal Trade Commission said Thursday in launching a crackdown on such fraud. 
Late last month, the FTC filed charges in federal district court against live companies that the government claims stole nearly $10 million from college-bound students and their families looking for money to pay rising tuition and fees. 
An estimated 300,000 stu­dents and parents fall victim every year to 100 to 200 fraud­ulent scholarship search ser­vices, according to Mark Kantrowitz, who has written a guide to scholarships. These 


It's time for a FIESTA!! M.R. is 21! 
Happy Birthday, Marni! Love, Mandoo 
Help Lou and the Irish strike fear into the hearts of the Boilermakers by wearing "The Shirt '96". Stand up, show our unity, show our pride. Wear "The Shirt '96" Notre Dame will 
win over all! 
companies charge a fee to lind -often guarantee -scholar­ships or grants for students, but never do. 
Kantrowitz of Pittsburgh, Pa., has developed an Internet page on financial aid sponsored by the National Association of Student Financial Aid Administrators and maintains a database of complaints about scholarship scam artists that he shares with the FTC and National Fraud Information Center. 
"A good rule of thumb is if you have to pay money to get money, it might be a scam," Kantrowitz said. "Ninety-nine percent of all legitimate schol­arship foundations do not charge applications fees. I know of only three that do." 
The FTC cautions students to be wary of companies that claim: 
• 
"The scholarship is guaran­teed, or your money back." 

• 
"I just need your credit card or bank account number to hold this scholarship." 


• "We'll do all the work.' 
Peter Narbonne, outside scholarships coordinator for Massachusetts Institute of Technology, said the rising cost of higher education has left stu­dents in a desperate search for money. Fraudulent companies obtain university phone books and send direct mail flyers to prospective clients, he said. 
These operations typically prey on lower-income students who are the first in their fami­lies to go to college -the same families who will likely be offered the largest grants. 


page 10 The Observer • INTERNATIONAL NEWS · Friday, September 6, 1996 
MadagaScar 
Yeltsin set for heart surgery 
By SERGEI SHARGORODSKY cal and economic realities. tests showed he was suffering Associated Press Writer The public acknowledgement from heart disease. The head of
president resigns 
also came as a surprise to the presidential press service, 
Aaociatcd Prm Thursday but .did rioJ sef a 
date for a .new presidential 

ANTANANARIVO, Madagascar election. 
The president ofthis Indian .. lf .said Prhn•:t Minlster Ocean nation said Thursday Norbert Rat$irabonana would he will resign next month, serve as chief executive in the ending two years of political interim. squabbling with a hostile par-Friction between ~afy.f}nd . liament that soughtto oust P4tliame:Qt qates to ol994,. him. . wll:t}n he an4 tbe:!J;'P.rime. tp.il1*.
President Albert :Zafy's ister ... Franct~qqe . ~av~IlY announcement came ·an hctur balked at an ec()Mniic u:Ver~ after after Madagascar's t()p haul .. ordered by ~be eourt l,lpbel~ a mov;e l>y lt!,W~ I"QternationaJ Mo:n,0ta,ry F:Ul14 makers .to.Jorce hhri from<: and World Bank as a cdl1di•.. otl\ce. He sa.id be would resl811 tiOl\f?r future rp!~cial aiti.. effective Oct. 10. · ···• . jh!l overhaul; backE)d by 
The National A,ssemh~Y> Ravpny;,.yv?nld qave t'rQ~en angered at a 1995 presiden~ pay fJ:)r go:vennu~n,t wo:rk~rs tial referendum that •signifi~ and • Jed to big layoffs in .the cantly diminished its powers, pub}ic ·sector. Zafy bristled a:t voted a month ago to oust the pJan, eonfillderlng the Zafy. The High Constitutional changes. a· chaJfenge Jo Court upheld the vote Madagascar's sovereignty. 
MOSCOW 
Ending months of speculation, Boris Yeltsin acknowledged Thursday that the rumors are true: He has serious health prob­lems and will undergo heart surgery later this month. 
The presi­dent's announce­rrient, which he made in a nation a 11 y Yeltsin 
broadcast TV interview, strengthens suspi­cions he is too ill to govern effec­tively. That would leave Russia's government in the care of rivals who may jockey for position while he is incapacitated, adding to instability in a country still struggling to adjust to new politi-

Shiites suspected in bombing 
By ANWAR FARUQI 
Associated Press Writer 

DUBAI. United Arab Emirates 
Saudi authorities are holding 40 Shiite Muslims in connection with the June bombing that killed 19 American airmen in Saudi Arabia, security sources in Saudi Arabia said Thursday. 
The sources said the Shiites were among an unspecified number of people in custody for questioning. They said suspects are routinely questioned and released. 
Last month, security sources in Saudi Arabia said investiga­tors had made no arrests in the June 25 bombing of a military housing complex near the east­ern city of Dhahran. They denied a claim by an opposition group, the London-based Movement for Islamic Reform in Arabia, that six suspects were under arrest and had con­fessed to the attack. 
A previously unknown Saudi Shiite dissident group said Thursday that Saudi authorities have arrested more than 100 Shiite Muslims in a crackdown in which hundreds of people were arrested. 
The Grouping of Hejazi 
Clergymen said most of the arrests took place during the two days that followed the bombing. 
Shiites make up about 2 mil­lion of the 12 million Saudi pop­ulation. They complain they face job discrimination, have limited freedom of movement inside the country, and are not allowed to travel outside. 
The June bombing was the second in less than a year in the oil-rich kingdom. In November, five Americans and two Indians were killed in a car bombing at a U.S.-run military facility in the Saudi capital. 

Russians, who long have seen the medical problems of leaders minimized or blatantly covered up. 
"I want us to have a society of truth. We should not conceal what has been concealed before," Yeltsin said in the inter­view. 
The 65-year-old president then closed his eyes and said medical Igor Ignatyev, said the tests were done last month. 
The doctors gave Yeltsin two choices: an operation or a more subdued routine -"more pas­sive work," as the president put it. "I have never been satisfied by passive work and I will not be satisfied by it now," he said. "Therefore, it is better for me to have an operation." 

Appearing LIVE at the 
WiiDTI~(Q)N (0)1f~TIEJE IffiAIRi 
402 EAST MADISON SOUTH BEND, IN (219) 288-3776 
Fri., September 6: Off the Wall Blues (blues) Sat., September 7: Lovey Howl (classic rock) 
hours: Mon-Sat 3:00p.m.-3:00a.m. 
HALF PRICE COVER WITH STUDENT ID DAILY SPECIALS SERVING EXCELLENT FOOD til 1 a.m. Thurs., Fri., Sat. 
WEDNESDAYS: open mic jam THURSDAYS: reggae FRIDAYS: blues SATURDAYS: classic rock -alternative -retro national and regional acts 
You vvant to be the 
to 

Macintosh. More flexible than ever. 
We don't know how you'll fill in the blank. That's why we make Macintosh' computers so flexible. To help you be the first to do whatever you want to do. And with word processing, easy Internet access, powerful multimedia and cross-platform compatibility, a Mac' makes it even easier to do it. How do you get started? Visit your campus computer store today and pick up a Mac. 
Leave your mark. 


©1996Apple Compute~ Inc. All rixM· reserwd Apple, the Apple toxo. Mac and Macintosh are registered trademarks ofApple Computer, Inc. All Macintosh computers are designed to be accessible /o indit•iduaL1· with disability. 7b learn more (W: onM, call R00·600·7R08 or TTY 800·755·060/. 

............~........~......~~........~~~..........~........~--------~~~~~------~~--..--~........~ 
VIEWPOINT 
Friday, September 6, 1996 page 11 
THE OBSERVER 
NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q. Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1996-97 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Elizabeth For.an Managing Editon Business Manager Patricia Carson Man Casey Tom Roland 
Newo Editor ........................Br.ad Prendergast Ad..:nising Manager ............................ Ellen Ryan Viewpoint Editor .................. Mcaghan Smith Ad Design Manager ............................... Jed Peters Spons Editor ..................... Timothy Sherman Production Manager ....................... Tara Gricshop Accent F.ditor ........................... Jocy Crawford Systems Manager ............................ Scan Gallavan 
Saint Mary'• Editor ................. Carolinc Blum Controllcr .......................................... Tylcr Weber Photo F..ditor .......................... Michael Ruma 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Oamc du Lac and Saint Mary's College. h docs nor necessarily reflect rhe policies of rhe administra­tion of either institution. The news is reponed as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned edi­torials rcprcscnt rhc opinion of rhc majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Spons Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commtnrarics, leners and I nsidr Columns present the views of the authors, and not necessarily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's com­munity and to •II readers. The free expression of varying opinions through lcncrs is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 
Ediror-in-Chicf 631-4542 Business Office 631-5313 Managing Editor/Viewpoint 631-4541 Advertising 631-6900/8840 Spons 631-4543 Systems/Marketing Dept. 631-8839 Ncwo/Photo 631-5323 Office Manager 631-7471 A<ecnt/Saint Mary's 631-4540 Fax 631-6927 Day Editor/Production 631-5303 Viewpoint E-Mail Viewpoint.! @nd.cdu General Jnformation 631-7471 Ad E-Mail obscrvcr@darwin.cc.nd.cdu 

• OFTEN WRONG BUT NEVER IN DOUBT 
Paying the high price offreedom 
From Notre Dame to Seoul, Korea, students risk peace to preserve their rights 
GARRY TRUDEAU
• DOONESBURY 
/XJ YOU fiE... UK& Ft-YIN6 PROM ~l/6HT 7f:WE.RS r 
All£ w eet/116rawww 
8Y 7H& F8U W 'tW THIN!< 
7Ht COWSIU/3 
AI?&A6ReAT 
!3ANI?~ 
/ 

• QuOTE OF THE DAY 
"The universe will change 
if you bring up your chil­dren, not in the freedom of the libertine, but in behavioristic freedom.." 
-John Broadus Watson 
When my roommate got out of his car, he wasn't thinking about his safety. He wasn't thinking about where he was or what he was doing. He wasn't looking over his shoulder and he wasn't both­ertld that it was dark or that it was late. He was just walking to the door. As he heard footsteps coming up behind him, he didn't whirl around or think to run. lie just turned to look. When told to turn around, he did. He surrendered his empty wallet cheerfully and then he was struck in the head with something along 
Christopher 
Regan 

the lines of a baseball bat. 
We talked it over as a household. Someone wanted to move out. Someone wanted to put up lights. Someone want­ed to buy a gun. Someone wanted to see if we could train the mold in the shower to eat intruders. Someone wanted to forget the whole thing. Some figured that head injuries are tricky things, and hence, our friend was nearly killed. Others figured that these were not a slick pair of hoods, risking jail for bad credit cards and a driver's license, and they could easily have missed him alto­gether. 
I have noticed the Notre Dame Security a lot more since then. "Our cops" are so often lied to and made fun of that it is hard to think of them as sep­arating my neighborhood, where you wonder if the things that go bump in the night are gunshots from the campus, where you wonder if the things that go bump in the night are going to be caught breaking parietals. After all, it's Security you move ofT campus to avoid. Seniors don't like parietals or parking several miles from our dorms. We don't like the alcohol policy or rooms without cable television. We do like our free­dom, however. We prize it and we are willing to run the risks of ND avenue neighborhoods to get it. That's what we wanted when we lived on-more free­dom. 
Before I draw the obvious parallels between my roommates and friends, fighting the good fight on St. Louis street much in the way the French did in 1789, the Union in 1864 and of course, Martin Luther King in 1968, I'd like to talk about a very different situation. It's col­lege kids risking something for freedom, but it's half a world away, in South Korea. The stakes in Seoul were vastly higher than those in the Bend.Violent student demonstrations were associated with the summer anniversary of Korea's division. The demonstrations focused at Yonsei University in Seoul. By most accounts the students were communist agitators interested in unifying with the North. 
The protests became more violent as they progressed over several days. Both the police and the students used clubs, tear gas and other chemical agents as a siege situation developed on campus. The students were barricaded indoors for several days without food. Over 150 students were injured, some quite seri­ously. 
It is important to note that while the protests were not peaceful, the students were not trying to take over the govern­ment or even the university; they weren't doing it for money or a real chance at power. They just wanted to make their point in public. 

The students are now being prosecut­ed under Korea's National Security Law, which allows anyone espousing socialist views to be jailed, even if they do so peacefully. Prior to this summer's riots, the Seoul government prohibited demonstrations pertaining to Korean unification. The press releases from 
' Few of us could say with surety that we ew of us could say with surety that we would face the police and the riot gear and the tear gas and the prison term, just so we could say what we think, when all that could be avoid­ed through simple silence. Given that, we ought to use words like "freedom" and 
"rights" with greater care."' 
Kim Young Sam sounded all too familiar when they indicated that Mr. Kim had supported such protests in the past, but now that he was President, they were no longer necessary. 
Benjamin Franklin wrote that those who would trade peace for security, deserved neither. The vast majority of Notre Dame students stand in the envi­able position of having all the risks nec­essary for the preservation of their free­dom taken by others. The difference between our struggles for small privi­leges and the battles fought by the South Korean students is therefore qualitative, rather than quantitative. 
We take small chances in a bad neigh­borhood -just like all the other people who live here -to make gains in what we call "freedom" as if the Revolutionary War was fought for cable TV and sleep over rights. One Notre Dame graduate remarked, "A guy just wants the freedom to sleep with his girl­friend in his room at 3 in the morning, then smoke a cigarette and watch SportsCenter. That's not too much to ask." 
Maybe it's not, but freedom is not our concern in America. It is not our con­cern because we possess it -indeed, we possess it in greater quantity than any people who have lived. To think of the rules and regulations we live with at ND as restrictions on our freedom diminishes the real freedoms we enjoy without even noticing them. It cheapens the sacrifice and risk which purchased that freedom -even as others seek to do the same -and it is a sign of great dullness. 
The point is this, and there's no real way of getting around it: Few of us could say with surety that we would face the police, the riot gear, the tear gas and the prison term, just to say what we think, when all that could be avoided through simple silence. Given that, we ought to use words like "freedom" and "rights" with greater care. 
I don't think there will be a shotgun in the living room of our house any time soon. I don't think anyone will move out. I think we'll leave the lights on and get a dog (Darby O'Gill -we will call him). Once in a while, we'll remember that we are living on borrowed time. We don't have to fight for our "freedom" or our "rights." It was our tremendous good fortune to have that done for us a long time ago. 
Christopher Regan is a senior Arts and Letters major. 

ACCt=:NT 

Pillows, sleeping bags, donuts, beer, futons and Lou----the) 

By MELANIE WATERS Assistant Accent Editor 
O
nce a year, it happens. Like the running of the bulls in Pamplona or the return of the sparrows to Capistrano. It is a tradition filled with mystique and reverence, one that must not be taken lightly by the chosen ones who participate in it. 
It is the annual rite of fall known as football ticket distribution, and is a cele­brated event in the passage from football­novice freshman to die-hard upperclass­man. 
But what's it all about? What's the big deal? Do the best tickets really go to the first ones in line? Can anyone really jus­tify crashing out on cement and being assaulted by pesky mosquitoes and se­curity guards just for football tiCkets? 
And why was I stuck with the all-night shift for the second year in a row? 
0 n c e again, I found myself hauling a blanket, pil­low, and various calo­rie-laden snack foods from Lyons to Gate 10 of the JACC in preparation for a hard night's work of sitting around socializing with several hundred of my class­mates while anxiously awaiting the morning's prime event: the arrival of Coach Lou Holtz with dining hall donuts at some obscenely early hour of the morning. 
My usual cohort, whom I'll call Erin (you can call her that too), and I sat down to assess the situation when we took our "shift" at 10 p.m. Tuesday night. I would like to note that for the second straight year, we chose to get our tickets with a large group of males who very graciously worked 2 hour increments and then left us to cover the next 12 hours. And you thought chivalry was dead. 
By midnight, the majority of the groups of students had arrived with gear in tow and had made something that looked like it might have been a line from the doors and around both sides of the large tree planters. Actually, "line" is stretching it -more like Woodstock but with "The Shirt" and University blankets replacing tie-dyes. 
Our male companions decided to call it a night by 12:30 a.m., so Erin and I set off to unveil the mystery of the attraction of camping out for tickets. 
Our mission started at the back of the line with a group of late starters that arrived at about 10 p.m. We found Tejal Mehta, Chrissa Harley, Janice O'Connell, Nina Pagnotto and Molly Gibson enjoying an appetizing combination of Papa John's 
and hot chocolate with Bailey's, so we asked these campers to explain their ded­ication. · 
"Most of us were abroad last year," Gibson said, "so we missed football sea­son. We just wanted to come out to have fun." O'Connell said that the group actu­ally volunteered to take the all-night shift, much to the thanks of their other friends who missed the experience but probably didn't wake up with indigestion and a 

planted at the JACC since 4 p.m. They opted to pass the many night hours smoking, eating, and playing caps (I'm sure they used Coke bottle tops), and had set up camp against the large tree planter so that they could fondly wave to the ever-lapping security vehicles. 
Against my better judgment, I made my way through the maze of revelers to visit some friends from Sorin who had been arriving in shifts all day long. Needless to crick in the neck. 
Down the line, we found first-time camper Shari Nemeth whose group had arrived at around 5 p.m. that night. 
"It's pretty crazy," Nemeth said, "but security is ridiculous. It's been fun, though. I don't get to see a lot of these people too often!" 
Just about everyone we talked to had some kind of run-in with security during the course of waiting in line, most of which had to do with confiscation of vari­ous life-threatening items such as Busch Light and futons. Why anyone would bother to confiscate Busch is beyond me. They at least should have aimed for the Killian's. 
Futons and couches were a definite no­no with campus security, who perhaps thought that several hundred people with sleeping apparatuses would lead to some huge moral crisis. Sure, you can break 
parietals out­
side, but 
absolutely not 
with a comfort­
able rear end! 

Sadly, a slew 
of mini-grills 
were also 
taken, ruining 
some groups' 
hopes of oper­
ating a burger 
and hot dog 
concession 
stand for their 
peers. One 
group, howev­
er, promised 
me a S'mores 
roast later, so I 
stopped to chat 
with Kathleen 
Ridenour, 
··Tricia 
Schafnitz, Clare 
Walker, Steve 
Wagner and 
Jenny Herve 
who had been 
say they were in a wonderfully good mood by 1 a.m., and were able to offer me lots of insight. 
"We're in it for the experience," Mike 
Eberly told me, "and the donuts from 
Lou!" 
"It's almost like ,-----------1 a freshman party," Tim Ray added, "because you meet new people, see old friends, and try not to step on anybody." I think they were recruit­ing people to play truth or dare, at which point I ran for my life. 
We then made our way toward the very front of the line, home of the hard-core campers. This was some pretty frightening stuff. We talked to Paul Lee and Tom McCarthy, who had been trying to wait in line since Sunday (and looked as such.) 
"We were boot­ed out repeated­ly," Lee said. "We came out Monday at about 6:30 and finally decided we were going to beat the system. We started sitting around the planter, and secu­rity kept going 'Hmm, that· 
doesn't look like anyone trying to form a line, does it?' " 
At 3 a.m. Tuesday morning Lee and his friends snuck out of their dorm and had another friend ride around on his bike to "patrol" for security guards. After sever­al hours of playing Inspector Gadget by scoping, plotting and scheming, the group had a brainstorm. 
"It was like, 'lightbulb!' " McCarthy said. "We sat ourselves in the first park­ing lot we could find and stayed in our car," which was entirely legal since they 

-~---­
;ACCE,NT

Friday, September 6, 1996 page 13 
tout at t e 

're all parts of yet another tim.eless Notre Dam.e tradition 


wnren't tnehnir.ally "forming a line." "We worked in shifts, most of them had reap­not always the best place to go at bizarre Bessie the Cow impressions and cattle­Wtlre there forever," McCarthy said. peared for the "big party" overnight. Of hours of the night, but we were the only herded toward the doors. Time: 6 a.m. "We'd bnen up for like 24 hours and we course, hours and hours of sitting ones there and that's only a minimal safe-We stood. Time: 7 a.m. We stood some finally got out of the car at about 7 a.m. requires lots of nutrition, which at least ty threat to others. We returned, happily more. Time: 8 a.m. Of course, the ushers (Wndnesday)." one security guard seemed to understand. having ingested grease, and decided at 5 decided that if they insulted us enough,
Smelling lovely, I presume, the group ''They told us to just keep our beer in a.m. that it was time to wake up our P.T.-we would be inspired to form a lovely, the car and go back to get more," said bound ROTC friends. They did not like organized line and would graciously let Clinton. Everyone agreed that inconsis­this idea. Anyway, by about 5:30 a.m. the the people who were walking up out of tency in enforcing security measures is a general mob was beginning to stir a~d!or the blue simply cut ahead and go right to concern that 
front of seriously needs the line. to be reconsid-·• Sorry, ered. While b u t some guards Catholic permitted alco-. spirit or hoi since just not, this about everyone was bloody was 21, others war. The confiscated cool­only thing ers, eases, and that justi­car stashes. fied the sit-
Neither SBCUri­uation was ty nor sleep the tradi­deprivation t i o n a I could deter arrival of Threadgold, who Lou and his was kicked out 5 donuts, times along with who of his couch. TV, course we VCH, recliner couldn't .... and coffee table. s e e "I haven't slept because for 3 days." the news Threadgold told cameras 
..;....·..;,,,," . ,~..... ~ . 

me, "except for pI u n ked class." To pass down right the hours, · ·" in front of 
T h r e a d go I d ;;,""' -'!.•...:·· ---. us. After a 
opted for football'-------..::.:""---------------------------few words with his Farley friends, trying to locate stumble towards a standing position in of inspiration, gratitude for our commit­missing furniture, and studying for the preparation for what can only be called ment, and football prognostications, our classes he missed. He and fellow multi-the "great cattle call." attention returned to the task at hand: day camper Brian Farmer even enjoyed While this momentous shift into a getting in the door. free Grab'n'Go's, which surely made the slightly more organized state of linedom Unfortunately, my story ended soon whole effort worthwhile. is usually announced by a frazzled usher thereafter with the reason (excuse) that I 
By this time it was after 3 a.m., the with a bullhorn, this year's spectacle was had a 9:30 class and had to leave my thick of the camp-out experience. Maybe preceded with some way too bright cam-claustrophobic home in line. Erin pre­it was because of the huge percentage of era lights from Fox 28. Apparently, hung vailed and procured the mighty ticket legal-age drinkers, but by this point near-over Notre Dame students were the most book at 10:45 a.m., 12 hours after our ly everyone was horizontal for one rea-important thing happening that day, second and final camp-out had begun. son or another. Boring, boring, boring. because they stayed for hours and I think Yep, sleeping on cement is as hideous 
.nok its oflieial place in line behind only After a few failed attempts at a rousing at one point they were actually trying to as it sounds. Security needs to get a col­IIIJe ollwr group that also worked fever­game of "Go Fish," which actually turned help the ushers form the elusive "single lective clue. And stale Papa's and beer is >hly to ensure a prime camping locale. out to be too intellectually challenging for file line." not an appealing sight or smell after 12 Vhile many members of group numero Erin and I to handle, we decided to take a Of course, when several hundred peo-hours. But as upperclassmen know and tno were sacked and/or passed out brief leave of absence. So, at 3:45 a.m., ple try to reach one set of doors at the underclassmen will soon discover, no one Lgainst the heralded locked doors of Gate we did what any safe, smart single 21-same time, you have a slight logistical would trade the experience for any­
1! 0, we were able to talk to Chris Sikora, year-old females would do -hauled off problem that the Ticket Department has thing... well, except for maybe a hassle­iim Korczak, Camille Clinton, Maureen for Steak 'n Shake. not figured out how to rectify even after free ticket book on the 50 yard line. ~ugent, and the actual first person to get Like I said last year, Steak 'n Shake is all these years. So, on cue, we all did our in line, Tom Threadgold. 
The group took its place at about 6:30 11.111., and while Sikora said they had 
Koncert in Kalamazoo to remember a lost friend 
By jOEY CRAWFORD collected at the benefit will by their heavy rifts, high ener­chants from the Kalamazoo Accem Editor cover the high hospital and gy, and loud vocals. These area have donated a surplus of funeral costs associated with bands are a lot of fun to watch merchandise and gift certifi­
A
rtists, namely musicians, Joelluin's untimely death. and listen to because they lay cates to entice the concert often get a bad rap. Brain Johnson, a local pro­virtually untouched by the goers. They are criticized for moter, and former roommate impurities and perversion In addition to the donations, plaguing children's minds with of the late ballet dancer, orga­associated with many of the merchants and radio stations dreams of drugs and promis­nized the benefit. He explains major record labels. are constantly promoting the cuity. The press claims that that basically all he did was That fact, by no means, does show. According to Brian many musicians live a life of "get a bunch of bands together not mean that they are not tal­Johnson, six local radio sta­immorality. A group of bands to help pay the bills from the ented. These guys are totally tions ticket giveaways and 60 in Kalamazoo, Michigan, have four days Joelluin spent in devoted to their music and it is second advertisements for the managed to overcome this intensive care. Her mother evident in their performance. benefit. The whole community stereotype, by joining together was all for the help, and the Rollinghead, a former has rallied around this group for a common cause. bands, many of whom were Kalamazoo music icon, reunit­of bands to help the cause. 
her friends, were more than ed when they heard about the 
Six rock bands from willing to help." benefit. Some of the members Tickets are $8 in advance Kalamazoo have teamed up for When he received word of of Double Wide, who are also and $10 the day of the show. a benefit for the late Joelluin the benefit concert, Kevin members of the legendary People wishing to purchase Masters. Joelluin was a Brady, the head of the Rollinghead explained that tickets can call the Kalamazoo dancer, instructor, and chore­Kalamazoo State Theatre, they are very excited about the State Theatre (616)345-6500 ographer, who touched the offered the use of the State long-awaited reunion. The or any Ticketmaster location. lives of many artists in the Theatre for free. band Plado also regrouped The doors open Saturday, Kalamazoo area. Dan-0, the Love Offering, Double Wide, when asked if they would like September 7, 1996, at 6:30 bassist of Love Offering Rollinghead, Daddy Long Legs, to perform. p.m. The show begins at 7:30 explains, "She was a really Plado, and Botfly are set to In addition to the scheduled and according to Johnson, will great girl. The majority of the perform at the Kalamazoo bands. there will be raffies and last until the wee hours of the people in the bands were good State Theatre Saturday night. games also to benefit the night. Only people eighteen friends with her." The money The bands are characterized cause. Thirteen different mer-and over will be admitted. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. 
Classifieds Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
page 14 The Observer • SPORTS Friday, September 6, 1996 

EASTERN EUROPE JOBS- Bargains & Treasures Galore  Need to buy up to 6 PURDUE TIX­ NEED: 5 PURDUE, 5 OHIO  Needed: PURDUE student ticket or  
NOTICES  Teach basic conversational English in Prague, Budapest, or Krakow. No  Historic District Y AAD SALE W. Washington & Chapin Sts.  GA or STUDENT. Call Meg @232­7839­ STATE, 2 AIR FORCE, AND 2 WASHINGTON TICKETS.  G.A. Tim X-1643.  
teaching certificate or European  Across from Northern Indiana  PLEASE HELP MElli CALL  NEEDOSU GAs  
languages required. Inexpensive  Historical Society in South Bend  $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$NE  SUSAN X4268.  CALL ERIN x1250  
•••••••••sATURDAY NIGHT*********  Room & Board + other benefits. For  Saturday, Sept. 7, 8 am-5 pm  ED PURDUE TIX WILL PAY BIG  
info. call:  [rain date Sunday, Sept 8)  $$$CHRIS 288-9102  I NEED TIX FOR NO-PURDUE  NEED ND-OSU GA FOOTBALL  
STOMPEA BOB  (206)971-3680 ext.K55842  GAME!! (4 STUDENT, 3 GA)  TIX.  
1986 MAZDA 323  Dave Mathews/Black Crowes  CALL COURTNEY X3525  PLEASE CALL 277-4221.  
at Bridget's -1O:OOpm  Make money selling great  4 DOOR, 5 SPEED, AIC,  1st 1 0 Rows 232-0058  
European sweaters. Call for inter­ AM/FM CASSETTE, 1 06 K,  WANTED: TICKETS OSU  NEED2 PURGA  
-special appearance by- view. 237-0866  EXCELLENT CONDITION.  JUNIOR PARENT WEEKEND  VS NO 614-687-0380 CALL COL­ WILL PAY WELL  
$2500. CALL 272-4562  RUTGERS TICKETS AVAILABLE  LECT AFTER 9:00PM  call X4856  
GUBI  Earn extra money lor only five min­ PLEASE CALL 232-0058  TOP$ PAID  
utes a day\  91 Geo Prizm, 4 Dr, 5 Speed,  Need Ohio State tickets.  
Student carriers are needed to  AMIFM Cassette, 92K Highway  •*DAVE MATTHEWS TIX**  Need 6-8 GA Tix. AIR FORCE  Call anytime. 302-832-7786  
deliver the Chicago Tribune inside  miles, $5,300. 273-0153  Will trade 2 center box seats for  913-541-3240  
Entertainment Electronics Co.  all dorms tor this school year.  DMB lor one Purdue GA. Call  NEED OSU TIXI  
3509 Grape Ad(@ Classic Stereo)  Please call 684-4302 for more infor­ 87 Mazda auto 90k Great Condition  Mickey at 1350  Tickets are NEEDED for PURDUE  
255-1172  mation.  2300 John 631-6414  and OSUII Willing to buy or trade!  WILLING TO BUY OR TRADE\  
Hrs: M-F 11-5 Sat. 10-2  NEED: 2 GAs lor PURDUE lor my  Call4-3568.  
You break it, we'll fix ill !I  PowerMac 7200/90, 8 MB  parents. Please call, Katie x2855  CALL4-1440  
VOLUNTEERS NEEDED  $1,800  Tickets are NEEDED for  
The EARLY CHILDHOOD  Lima.1 @ or 273-0824  $$$$$$$  PURDUE and OSU!I Willing to  
THAT PRETTY PLACE, Bed and  DEVELOPMENT CENTER with  buy or trade! Call 4-3568.  
Breakfast Inn has space available  programs at Saint Mary's  I will buy your student ticket packet!  Selling 1 Purdue GA. Will take best  
for football wknds. 5 Rooms with  College and the University of  n. d. tickets for sale  offer, Jen x0847.  
private baths, $70-$90,  Notre Dame is looking for  85 Escort Wagon 5 speed 76730  Call Sean at 243-1340  271 1635  
Middlebury, 30 miles from campus.  volunteers who enjoy working  miles new muffler new battery runs  SALE  
Toll Road, Exit #107,  with young children. If you would  great. $ 700. Call 2730558  $$$$$$$  Trade 4 WA GA's for 2 OH GA's  PURDUE STU TIX  
1-800-418-9487  be interested in spending 2 hours  Help! 243-9390  AEG&MAARIED  
a week reading children's books,  Who Needs A Bed?  2719387  
FREE T-SHIAT  building with blocks, and singing  2 new single beds for sale\  WILL TRADE 2 PITT GA's OR 2  NEED PURDUE TIXIII  
+$1000  songs with children, please call  Mattress, Boxspring, and  RUTGERS FOR 2 PURDUE  CALL All 289-4922  TRADE ONLY-2 WA GAs for 2  
Credit Card fundraisers for fraterni­ Cindy Hestad, 284-4693 (SMC)  Headboard included. Asking $275  2WASH 20SU OR2BC 2773097  OSU GAs -273-8379.  
ties, sororities & groups. Any cam­ or Thayer Kramer, 631-3344 (NO).  each. Call Jarred at  
pus organization can raise up to  Please join our fun filled days.  234-7601.  $$$$ I NEED STUD. TIX  NO DAD NEEDS TWO (2) GAs  
$1000 by earning a whopping  STUDENT TIX. BOOK FOR SALE  Booklet!! Will pay big $$$  FOR PURDUE, OHIO STATE AND  
$5.00NISA application.  Immediate opening for part-time  COUCH FOR SALE.272-6306  call 272-5702  Call Mike 243-922411  WASHINGTON. CALL LARRY  
Call1-800-932-0528 ext.65  afternoon secretary approx. 30  (219)422-6088  
Qualifies callers receive  hrs./wk. Apply at WISSCO Irrigation  WANTED: Black Crowes tix ...  $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$  
FREE T-SHIAT  Inc., 1820 South Bend Ave. or call 277-9851. Within walking distance  VW 90 JETTA GL 2DA 5SPD SNRF SPAT-TUNED. IMMACU­ need at least 2 or up to 5. call wendy at 243 -9430.  My family desperately NEEDS GA's for the Ohio State Game.  PERSONAL  
Students: Do you need a typist?  of campus.  LATE! $6950/BEST 277-3569  
Call Kathy at 277·2178.  I'll trade my 2 Purdue GAs for your  Please call Jon @ x 1889  THE COPY SHOP  
Earn extra money in only five min­ TECH LINE DRP-FANT DAESS­ 2 Washington GAs.Bob.277-2510.  $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$  in the LaFortune Student Center  
utes a day! Carriers needed to  ERIDSK WHITE EXCLNT CND $98  is NOW HIRING  
50% off-used books boughVsold. 2  deliver the Chicago Tribune within  277-3569  GA's/Stu lor Sale...Home/Away  student employees!  
day ordering, any textbook. 4  the dorms.  I want to trade my 4 Purdue GA's  All Games ...Leave B/0 lor any  Stop in for details and to apply.  
blocks South (Notre Dame ­ Call 684-4302 for more information.  4SALE  (together)+$(?) lor O.S.U. GAs.  game ... Call Tony x0500  
Howard.) 7 days 10-6; 233-2342.  2 Purdue GA's  Call (303) 543-9534.  *****ZAP YOUR FAT*****  
Pandora's books.  EARN SOME EXTRA $  219-271-2837  ***•*******frEE loVE*•••••••••••••  Two stud tix for sale -all games  Lose Weight & Feel Great  
caring for 3 adorable children.  x2279  1 00% Natural and Guaranteed  
FOR A GREAT RATE ON  1 or 2 days, near campus. 287-9669.  TICKETS  Desperately Need AIR FORCE tickets (Stu or GAs)!  Need 2 GA's for Washington. Will  No More Starving! Just RESUL TSI Call: (219) 289-5751  
RENTERS & AUTO INS.  Call Steph 634-4135  pay big $ Julie x2141  
CALL RANDY 257-9572  SWIM COACH-ASSISTANT  NOTRE DAME GA'S WANTED  Does anyone know what happened  
AMERICAN FAMILY INS.  COACH NEEDED FOR LOCAL  ALL GAMES HOME  to UP!? Any details regarding this  
AGE GROUP SWIM TEAM. PRIOR  AND AWAY  NOTRE DAME GA'S WANTED  2 Purdue & 4 OSU stud tix lor  tragedy please call 4-2377.  
Retired widow available for house­ COACHING EXPERIENCE HELP­ 232-0058  ALL GAMES HOME  SALEI\687-8435  
sitting. Short term or long term. Call  FUL. CALL 289-SWIM.  24 HAS.  AND AWAY  
633-4159 for details.  BUY -SELL -TRADE  232-0058  $NEED OSU, WASH, & AF TIX  ATTENTION:  
HUGE NO FAN DESPERATE FOR  24 HAS.  216-995-1902 5-7 PM EDT M-F  The Class of 1998 is  
COME AND SEE THE BIGGEST  5 GAs FOR RUTGERS. CALL PAT  TICKET-MART, INC.  BUY -SELL -TRADE  216-650-5264 7-9 PM EDT M-F  seeking any information  
ART SALE OF THE YEAR AT NO  (813)360-2243.  about the recent  
-THE HUNTINGTON GRAPHICS  TICKET-MART, INC.  PLEASE HELP!!!!  disappearance of Chewy  
PAINT AND POSTEA SALE AT LAFORTUNE STUDENT CENTER.  FOR RENT  WANTED: NOTRE DAME GA'S ANY/ALL GAMES. PLEASE CALL  WANTED: NOTRE DAME GA'S  I need three GA'S for Purdue. call Brian@ 2182  from the SUB Office. Recent ads have  
HUNDREDS OF ART PAINTS,  232-0061.  ANY/ALL GAMES. PLEASE CALL  implicated us in the crime,  
ESCHEAS, ROCK BANDS, AND  NICE HOME NORTH OF NO  232-0061.  Need 1 tic tor Purdue  and we wish to clear our  
OTHERS. THIS WEEK ONLY  2773097  Call Dave @ x4798  names of any wrong­ 
THROUGH SEPT. 6. 9:30AM­ I need student Ticket books!  I NEED GA TIXS ALL HOME  doing and work for the  
6:00PM DAILY. ILOST & FOUND I  1, 2 & 3 BDRM HOMES NEAR CAMPUS. AVAIL. NOW.272-6306 OWNER TO SUBLET PURDUE  Leave a message for Bryan at: 273-2812 $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$  GAMES.272-6551 NO SEASON & INDIVIDUAL GA FOOTBALL TIX WANTED. CHECK  NEED STU BKL TS REG & MARRIED  safe return of Chewy. $5.50 HAIRCUT VITO'S BARBERSHOP  
WK-END OR WK 9/13-9/20 AT  OUR PRICES BEFORE YOU  2719387  1523 LINCOLNWAY WEST  
LOST -a camera at Bridget's  VARSITY CLUB RESORT HOTEL  I NEED FOOTBALL GA'SI  SELL.  SOUTH BEND  
at the end of spring semester  AT DISCOUNT. SLEEPS 4,  WILL BEAT ANY OFFER!  674-7645.  I need 2 Purdue tix-want to trade for  8-5-M-F  
if found please call Nicole x1412  KITCHEN, HOT TUB, POOL,  CALL 243-1287  2 Pitt GA's? Call 802 273-2554  8-4-SAT.  
SPORTS LOUNGE, ETC. $200  
I lost a pair of glasses On-Campus.  WK-END NITES, $700/WK. 219­ Need stud. tkt app I book! $$$  NO PARENTS NEED 2-4 FOOT­ NO ALUM NEEDS  Are you stressed and tense?  
If found, please call Drew @x1301.  291-5849  x4893  BALL TIX FOR WASHINGTON  OSU/WASH/AF/AUT/PITT TIX  For light exercise, try Ta'i Chi,  
GAME. CALL MIKE V. 634-0997.  CALL MIKE 212-372-7214  Sundays 10-Noon.  
WANTED  1 BDAM. IN 3-BDRM HOME. CLOSE TO NO, SAFE, USE OF  NEEDED:  N.D. FOOTBALL GA TIX  Need tickets for N.D.-Texas  Look for club group in front of The Rock.  
ALL UTILITIES & KITCHEN.  * MARRIED STUDENT TICKETS  BOUGHT & SOLD  Sept.21 Call1-800-840-3548  Call1-5382.  
HELP WANTED-$10.25  $275/MO. PAUL 232-2794.  FOR SEASON  232-2378-A.M.  
Part-time work. Flexible eve. and  288-2726-P.M.  '93 Alum needs 1 GA or stud. tix.  Dear Class of 1998-We want our  
weekend hours. No exp. required.  SPACIOUS, 2BA APT, $370  *GAsFOAOSU  for Purdue game (sorry your buddy  wookie. Return Chewy or else this  
All majors welcome. Scholarships  5 BLOCKS F/CAMPUS  NO ALUM NEEDS FOOTBALL  can't make it-sell me your extra).  is war. One week, no questions  
available. Info-call 282-2357  232-4827.  WILL BARGAIN, CALL 258-6056  SEASON TICKETS FOR PERSON­ Kevin 704-365-2214, wein­ asked. Comply or else.-SUB and its  
.,.  WANTED: Black Crowes tixll  ROOMS-NICELY DECOR. IN PRI­ AL USE ONLY WILL PAY WELL 2773097  mankc@aol.com  mafia connections  
need at least 2 or up to 5. call  VATE HOME, 2 MI. N. OF CAM­ ** HEADIN' TO TEXAS **  Wanted: Unwanted Law/Grad. stu­ Need Advice? Classes? Clubs?  
wendy at 243 -9430.  PUS. FOOTBALL WKNDS., CONT.  Can you sell us NO -UT tix? call  FOOTBALL TICKETS NEEDED  dent season football ticket booklet.  Traumas? LOVE?? send your let­ 
BKFST INCL. CALL KIM 277-8340  Todd x1668 or Shan x1833  FOR OSU GAME 2 AND 2  Top$ paid 312-919-9500 Daniel  ters with a first name only to ALICE  
Need spending $$ ? City News  OR 4 TICKETS TOGETHER  c/o Accent at the Observer, 314  
needs carriers to deliver morning  House for rent LJ.!<e Maxinkukee 45  Need 3 RESERVED SEAT tickets  CALL AOBT. COLLECT  NO Alum has PITT GA's to TRADE  LaFortune. Expert replies promised.  
papers door-to-door in residence  min Notre Dame 4BD. CA FP  for WASH. Call Brian @ 1648.  216-439-2192 AFTER 4  for OSU GA's. Call Brian (717-566­ 
halls. Takes only an hour per day.  APPL. $650.317-942-2108 alter 6  5856). Leave message.  Sue's Sucks!  
Start now. Call Mike 4-1186.  317-942-2408.  NEED 1 PURDUE TICKET  
STUDENT OR GA  WANTED TO BUY OHIO STATE  NEED FOOTBALL TIX CALL 233­ Chestnut House B&B,  
OUTBACK STEAKHOUSE Grape Road has a few positions still avail­ FOR SALE  CALL AMY X4218  OR WASH. VS. ND.D TIX-CALL DAVE (614)764-7355  5719 FOR BILL-ANY GAMES  St. Joseph, MI. Elegantly decorated home over­ 
able for confident individuals inter­ Need 1 Purdue GA. Call 634-0549  G.A.'S SEASON TICKETS  looking Lake Michigan and only 40  
ested in the following positions:  89 tercel 80k auto $3200  Matt.  Buying N.D .. Football Tickets,  G.A. WANTED PLEASE HELP IF  mins. from NO.  
wait, host, bus and kitchen. NO  271-8280  Public and Faculty Seats  YOU CAN CALL 273-6929  Luxuriate in double whirlpools, pri­ 
Football season is under way and  NEED 2 PURDUE GAs  Call1-800-255-2850  vate baths, full breakfasts & hors  
sales are booming. Do not miss out!  Mac Pwrbk 150, $500  Call Kieran @634-4487  REALLY REALLY NEED WASH­ d'oeuvres served fireside.  
Apply alter 3PM any afternoon.  Mac Pwrbk 5300cs, $2000  NEED PURDUE TIX  INGTON GA'S. PLEASE CALL  (616) 983-7413.  
271-8280  PLEASE CALL X4717  243-9398 OR 273-9278 ASAP.  
Need 2 Purdue GA's &  Won't you be  
NATIONAL PARKS HIRING­ 87 Plymouth, new parts & tuned 4  1 OSU Student ticket  Need Two Washington G.A.'s lor  Won't you be  
Positions are now availalbe at  dr auto dependable car. $950 obo  Call Sara X0928  family, my tuition depends on it.  need married/student booklets  Won't you be  
National Parks, Forests & Wildlife  1-9397  Will pay HUGE bucks!  x1528 jaret  My neighbor?  
Preserves. Excellent benefits +  Call Matt @ 234-8474 Thanks.  
bonuses! Call: 1-206-971-3620  WORD PROCESSOR  Help! I need two Washington GA's  Wanted: GAs for all games, season  Mentes  
extN55848  Smith Corona, GREAT COND  for parent's first NO game. Call  GAs. Call soon\272-7223  They really work!! I  
$100 OBO 634-2575 Lauren  X2538 and ask for lnga.  FINANCIAL REWARDS AWAIT  
ALASKA SUMMER EMPLOYMENT  YOU! Alum seeks happiness &  WANTED FB TIX to any home  Hi, to the most beautiful girl at Notre  
-Students Needed! Fishing  92 JETTA 67K SSP, CRUISE,  GA and St. booklets. 4 sale. Call  fuzzy school memories. Will gleeful­ game for visiting brother. Student  Dame. (Whatever.)  
Industry. Earn up to $3,000­ SUNROOF,+. $8,500 287-1521  Lee @271-2845. Make an offer!  ly pay TOO MUCH $ for 2 GA tixs.  or GA. Will pay $$. x2119  
$6,000+ per month. Room and  OHIO & WASHINGTON preferred,  Audrey Hepburn is a goddess.  
Board\ Transportation! Male or  9MTHOLD  2 GA's SEASON TICKETS  but not picky. Please call our busi­ NEED 2-4 GA TIX  
Female. No experience necessary.  COUCH $150  DESPERATELY NEEDED  ness collect, (9-4), & ask for TED or  ALL HOME GAMES.  My mind doesn't work anymore.  
Call (206)971-3510 extA55847  OAKTABLE+CHAIRS 130  Please Call256-0174 alter 6 pm  JENNIFER. 616-925-0629  CALL 276-2010/288-2877 AFT 5  Check back with me on Monday.  



SIMPLY IHE BESI!
YAMAHA CC-7 5 state of the art 
NATURAL SOUND MINI COMPONENT SYSTEM 
55 Wa••s/cH RMS 
,.HD: 0.08°/o, I Bl,. DAC 
~-----~---~-------------------­
Friday, September 6, 1996 
One look tells you the GX-5 is no ordi­nary component system. Its bold, curvy, techno designs leaves the usual boxy component stereos far behind­and it's got the sound to match. Start with a powerful amp, add Yamaha's unique Active Servo Technology (YST) that delivers stunning bass response, and throw in a seven-band graphic equalizer with four music presets, three location mode settings and four user memories-now that's versatility! And the Spectrum Analyzer display gives you a "picture" of the music as it plays. You've got plenty of listening choices, too, beginning with a high-per­
i 5 wa••s/cH of Real Power! 
-· 

formance CD changer. It holds three CDs and even lets you change two while the third continues to play. Not one, but two cassette decks and an AM/FM tuner add to your enjoyment. The GX-5: fun to use, great to look at, and fabulous to listen to-what more could you ask for? 
Friday, April28, 1995

page 16 The Observer· SPORTS 
• BOX!J\!G •NHl 
Iron Mike helps Seldon fulfill 'dream' 
By TIM DAHLBERG 
Associated Press 

LAS VEGAS 
From the moment Bruce Seldon won a piece of the heavyweight title 17 months ago, he knew the day was com­ing. 
Now that it's almost here, Seldon almost has to pinch himself to believe what he'll be doing Saturday night. 
"I will be stepping into the ring with Iron Mike Tyson," Seldon said. "This is something I've dreamed of a long time." 
It may be a short-lived dream, if oddsmakers are cor­rect. 
Seldon is a 22-1 underdog against Tyson, whose three opponents since his release from prison have not lasted a total of seven full rounds. 
Though he holds the WBA heavyweight title, Seldon seems almost a bit player in Tyson's second lucrative romp through the heavyweight ranks he dom­inated before going to priso. 
"It's going to be treat­ed as if it's the biggest fight of his life," Tyson said of Seldon. "It's going to be the biggest beating of his life." 
Even Seldom seems like he is struggling while doing his best to sound upbeat and confident about his chances to retain the WBA title he won April 8, 1995, against Tony Tucker. 
"I have to be confident. I
·-
have to feel this way because I'm a champion," Seldon said Thursday. "I feel Mike Tyson is not going to beat me, not going to take my title." Seldon, who won his title only two weeks after Tyson was released from prison, has defended it only once, stopping an outclassed Joe Hipp in the ninth round. He got $700,000 for that fight, a far cry from the $5 mil­lion he'II make against Tyson. Not that he's not grateful, of course. ''I'd truly like to thank you, brother," Seldon said to Tyson at Thursday's final pre-fight press conference. "It's been a long time waiting for this fight." Seldon (30-3, 29 knockouts) owns a good left jab and hits 
nine fights by knockout. 
But he has a suspect chin as evidenced by his first round knockout loss to former cham­pion Riddick Bowe in August 1991 and has not fought many fighters approaching the cal­iber of Tyson. 
''I've fought guys with better jabs than him," Tyson said. "I've never looked at the jab as as big an asset as most guys 
d0." 
Tyson, on the other hand, is just Tyson, a ferocious puncher who is easily the most feared fighter of his time. 
''I'm in the hurt business," Tyson said. "This is what I do." 
Seldon and Tyson were sup­posed to meet July 13, but Tyson pulled out the week before because of bronchitis. It was the second time in three fights since leaving prison that Tyson postponed a fight. 
"Word got back to him that I was in shape," Seldon said. "At one point, I thought he was taking me lightly, then 10 days before the fight he postponed the fight. 

Neely decides to call it quits 
By JIMMY GOLEN 
Acsociated Press 
BOSTON 
Even though he's known all summer that Cam Neely wouldn't be able to help the t~am next season, Bruins gen­eral manager Harry Sinden didn't have any luck replacing his four-time All-Star. 
It wasn't from lack of effort, Sinden insisted. It's just that there are no players like Neely left in the NHL now that the Bruins' bruising power forward has retired because of a degen­erative hip condition. 
"He was the finest body­checking forward the league has ever known. And on top of that, he was able to score 50 goals a year," Sinden said Thursday after Neely's emo­tional retirement announce­ment. 
"This is one of the most fabu­lous players the game has pro­duced. This is a different type of player than we've seen in this league. I'm not saying he was Bobby Orr, or Wayne Gretzky, or Mario Lemieux. But this was a type of player that 
C E N T E R F 0 R SOCIAL CONCERNS 
APPALACHIA FALL 
BREAK 
SEMINAR 
Oct. 20-25, 1996 
THE SEMINAR 
• 
Is a 1-credit Theology course 

• 
Involves orientation and follow-up learning 

• 
Presents the opportunity to work, laugh, and learn with other volunteers 


INFO SESSION: Monday, September 9, 1996, 7:30-8:00P.M. (optional) At the Center for Social Concerns 
APPLICATIONS: Available at the Center Due Date: Wednesday, September 11, 1996 by 5:00P.M. 
M.J. Adams, 634-3880, or Laura Stein 634-3690 information: Rachel Tomas Morgan 282-2209 
For further 

they weren't." hockey," Neely said. 
Neely's retirement had been Still, the words didn't come expected ever since he missed easily for him. the final 25 games last season. At the Legends restaurant in But it didn't completely sink in the FleetCenter, standing for him until about a month between a picture of the 1986­ago, when he pulled up lame 87 Boston Celtics and one of the after racing his 10-year-old Beatles, Neely grabbed the brother-in-law home from a podium with both hands, wiped movie. his eyes and his crooked nose, 
"I kind of realized that if I choked back tears for a full 30 can't run to the corner, I prob­seconds and said, finally, that ably can't play professional he would not be back. 
· 
University of Notre Dame Department of Music 
presents 

f\Je,.., ,lltuslc ttt Nottt. 'l)ttmt. 
A Faculty Composition Recital 
with the music of 
2-tha" J{almo & 


Students, faculty and guests to premiere new works. 
Sunday, Sept 8 Annen berg Auditorium 
2:00p.m. The Snite Museum of Art 

_ Washington !~~t.. Semester 

~:il!!,._=:-.,:.,:'-_ 
Informational Meeting 

Tuesday-> September 10 5:00p.m. 116 0->Shaughnessy 

ESTUPIDS(PG) 1:05,3:10,5:30,7:511,10:30 INDEPENDENCE DAY(PG-13) 1:00,4:00,7:00, 10:oo MMA(PG) 1:20,3:55,7:20,10:10 
ESCAPE FROM LA (R) 12:2o. 2:45, 5:10, 7:35, 10:25 LASKA(R) 12:25,2:55, 5:25 
HOUSE ARREST(PG) 7:55*, 10:20 CARPOOL (PG) 12:45, 3:05, 5:20 
HE NUTTY PROF. (PG-13) 7:15,9:30 
Times valid through next Thursday 
*Sat. night and Sun. night at 7:55 sneak preview of Spit Fire Grill Stay and see House Arrest for free' 


~---­

Friday, September 6, 1996 The Observer • SPORTS page 17 
• VOLLEYBALL 
Big Four Classic offers Irish stiff competition 
By JOE CAVATO Sports Writer 
After Wednesday's loss to the second ranked Stanford Cardinal, the Notre Dame wom­en's volleyball team, currently 3-1, will have a chance to get back on the winning track this weekend. 
The Joyce Center will host the Big Four classic as Louisville and the University of Kentucky will cross the border and head north while Indiana University 
TREK 
-CANNONDALE -ROLLERBLADE 
Full Service Department Pick-up & Delivery (call for appointment) 
Mon-Fri 10:00-7:00 Saturday 10:00-5:00 
will make the trip cross state to compete in the two day tourna­ment. 
In the previous six years of the Big Four the Irish have come home with the crown three times and have won their last eight matches in the competition. 
Last year's tournament saw several grueling matches as Notre Dame was victorious. The host Hoosiers and the Cardinals both pushed the Irish to the limit in thrilling five 


CINEMA AT THE SNITE 
presented by Notre Dame Communication and Theatre 
631·7361 

..COEH FAHS HAVE REASOH TO REJOlCE! Jt\4 1'1'11~1\1~ .$.1tllll(;t: r.-.w hllli'IM OU.• .t Jmltttr~l, '!Mo~ ih'm.w ~~ tW.Is ltt..r ~tluflc ·~~~ Jl.-r91t.•~ · 
• Go<,-F1•~. f;ll$"ii)P(H.ftM .·.· 
FRIDAY SEPT. 6 and SATURDAY SEPT. 7 
7:30PM and 9:30PM http://www.nd.edu/-cothweb/wwwsnite.html 
game matches, while the Wildcats yielded in three tough games, (15-10, 15-12, 15-8). 
The Irish posted two players on the all-tournament team as Jenny Birkner and Jaimie Lee came home with the honors. Lee also took home the MVP award as she lead the squad in kills in two of the three match­es. 
Louisville has won only one match in their eleven matches with Notre Dame. The Wildcats lead their series 9-4, but the squads have split the action in the Big Four Classic, three a piece. Notre Dame beat IU in a thrilling five-game match last season to push the all time series mark to 5-4 in favor of the Irish. 
Louisville is coming off an im­pressive win over then sixth­ranked UCLA. The Cardinals, 

That you could own acondominium or townhome just minutes from Notre Dame for as little as $379* per month? 
A wise inveshnentfor students, parents, alumni andfaculty. 
• 
Condominiums and townhomes as low as $56,000 

• 
Perfect for game weekends 

• 
Beautiful waterfront settings 


North Shore Club 
Models Open Daily Sat. & Sun. 12-5 P.M. Mon.-Fri. 10 A.M-6 P.M. 

• Monthly paymenrs of P. and I. based on a purchase price of$15,990 with 20% down and aJO-year 7.375 A.R.M. 
What about after graduation?!? 
Are you considering all your options? 
Come to the CENTER FOR SOCIAL CONCERNS and explore opportunities for post-graduate SERVICE in the U.S. and Abroad. 
Come to a: 

General Information Session: Monday, Sept. 9th, 6 -7 p.m. or Thursday, Sept. 12th, 5-6 p.m. • at the Center for Social Concerns • 
And to the: 

Post-Graduate Volunteer Fair: Wednesday, Sept. 25th, 7-9 p.m. • at Stepan Center • 
Also: Stop by the Center to pick up information and resources for a wide variety of service-based organizations and programs and to sign up for individual appointments. 
currently in the 19th slot in the USA Today poll, are led by sev­eral offensive-minded Russians. Marina Sinichenko led the way to victory in the UCLA upset as she accumulated 22 kills and twelve digs. 
The home team will do battle with the Cardinals tonight at 7 in what will probably be the best match of the weekend. After their win over UCLA in the Hawaiian Air Wahine Classic, Louisville dropped the final to the host and top team in the nation, the Hawaii Rainbows. 
Sinichenko is joined by Sonia Gubaidulina, who added 45 total attacks to Sinichenko's 64. All of this means that Louisville will definitely give the Irish a significant challenge as they have already tangled with two top ten teams. 
Love, om, Dad, & Ben 

Did you know ... r 
"Louisville looks very tough. They are probably the strongest team out of the three," com­mented head coach Debbie Brown. "Their two new players have big offensive games and will bring another dimension to their game, so we'll take a look at some tape and we are going to have to serve very aggres­sively." 
Saturday afternoon at 1:00 the Irish will take on the Wildcats who are coming in off the Kentucky Invitational where they took one out of three and they traveled to Ball State last night. No 16 Georgia Tech needed four sets to knock of the young Kentucky squad. 
Head coach Fran Ralston­Flory will likely start only two upperclassmen, senior hitter Gina Heustis and junior hitter Cynthia Dozier. Sophomore middle blocker Jenny Muzzey was their best performer over the weekend. 
The Hoosiers will put their 3­1 record on the line this week­end as they racked up three wins in the South Florida Invitational. Freshman hitter Ryann Connors and junior hit­ter Julie Flatley out of Cor Jesu Academy in St. Louis, MO. lead IU's offense. . 
"I think Indiana and Kentucky are both very good and very balanced," Brown explained. "It's (The Big Four) has always been a very competitive tourna­ment. It was good for us to win those tough five-game matches last year and it is always good for us to play tough competi­tion." 
~o;,RO~ 
~ c. 
~11)~
. . 
,:,:~A. 
J"'­
"Qsuo1.1> 
(219) 232-2002 (800) 404-4275 
-

page 18 The Observer • SPORTS Friday, September 6, 1996 
_... 
Irish ready to calm Storm of Big East 
Powerful St. John's travels to South Bend 
By BRIAN REINTHALER Sports Writer 
On Saturday evening, the highest ranked men's soccer team in the Big East conference will walk onto Alumnni Field. No, the Irish, with their 2-0 record, have not come quite that far as of yet, but with a win over the reigning Big East Tournament champion St. John's Red Storm, they would be on their way. 
St. John's comes into town with an identical 2-0 record and nine of the eleven starters that handed Notre Dame a 6-0 drubbing a year ago. At the end of the first half last season, the Red Storm led 2-0 and had held the Irish to just one shot on goal. Everything simply went downhill from there, which is why it is so important for the team to get off to quick start tomorrow. 
The Blue and Gold have had no problem starting fast in their first two games this sea­son. In the opening game at Providence, they smothered the Friars throughout most of the first half and took a 1-0 lead that they would not relinquish. On Tuesday, the Wildcats of Northwestern fell victim to the tenacious first half play of the Irish and recorded just one shot on goalie Greg Velho. 
One ought not forget howev­er, that this is not Northwestern or Providence. This is a squad that finished 16-5-1 overall with a 6-3-1 mark in the conference. Their three top players this year were each named to the first team all Big East squad last season. One of them is starting goelie Kris DaCosta, who post­ed a 0.88 goals against average last year. 
Celebrate
-
afriend·s birthday with a sPecial Observer ad. 
This is not a good sign for the Irish who, despite a four goal performance on Tuesday, have not proven that they can be consistent in the attack zone. 
One option for head coach Mike Berticelli is to offer fresh­man and New Zealand native Andrew Aris a bit more playing time. The forward played most of the second half against Northwestern and contributed a goal and an assist to what was an excellent team effort overall. 
The other offensive standout in Tueday's game was senior midfielder Konstantin Koloskov, who was the benefi­ciary of Aris' assist. 
St. John's has the firepower up front to blow a game open early and then suffocate its opposition with a swarming defense. Should the Irish hope to compete with the Red Storm tomorrow evening, they will have to play a full 90 minutes of in-your-face soccer. The defense will have to remain stingy and Velho will need to come up big in his first real test of the 1996 campaign. 

Belles seek redemption 
By KELLY COUGHLIN Sports Writer 
It wasn't quite the way they wanted to open their 'Season at home. 
In a match against Illinois­Wesleyan Wednesday, the Belles soccer team plummeted to a 2-0 loss, lowering their record to a slow 0-3. 
"We played the first half a little slow," coach Bob Sharp explained. 
·"We were in confusion and 
Recycle The Observer 

experienced a few let-downs." 
After allowing Illinois­Wesleyan to score three goals on his team in the first half, Sharp began to experiment with alternate line-ups. He eventually developed a sound and well-balanced combina­tion to come back and shut out their opponents in the second half. 
"In the second half we passed as a team," senior for­ward Jolie Pokorny said. "We proved our capabilities 
2.5 cuFf 
4.0 cuFf 10 cuFf 
through passing and talking as a team. We kept our heads in the game." 
Sharp hopes his team will develop their offensive play to add to his strong defense combination in the Belles' 
weekend  game  against  
Wheaton.  
"If we can come  back  on  

Saturday with the same aggression we showed in the second half against 1-W," Pokorny said, "then we hope to come home with a win." 



$4500 
prices for the
$5000 
school year
$9000 

Pick-up and Delivery available 
Burns Rent Ails Inc. 
332 W. Mishawaka Ave. 
(corner of Mishiwaka Ave. and Liberty Dr.) 
219-259-2833 
SPIN DocTOR 
sShe came bounding into one of our on-campus information sessions about a year ago, an engineering undergrad carrying a bag of dismantled hard drives. 
"Look," she said, and pointed out a subtle 
inefficiency in the servo mechanism, which to that day, 
only our top engineers had recognized. 
Then she gave us a half hour lecture on how to fix it, 
and we told her about state-of-the-art labs; she launched 
into a monologue about data storage and what we should be 
doing about it, so we told her what we are doing about it. 
She said there's a lot of work to be done, and we invited 
her to join us, and do it. And since then, she's taken storage technology to the Nth degree. Helped revolutionize how portable hard drives work. 
Which brings us back to campus. This semester we're scouting the country again, looking for more spirited people and ideas. We're pushing this company to the Nth degree. 
And you can take us there. 
-~-­
---____----.. ---.........._
_._._ 
VISIT CLUB CYBERBLUE@ www.cybrblu.ibm.com ON CAMPUS September 6, 1996 

--·­
---'-® 
L_____________________ 

r----~------·-~-­
Friday, September 6, 1996 The Observer· SPORTS page 19 

on the gamr.. will come in the Since the Final ~,......-..ll first two weeks of Four is not in October, when they South Bend, we play University of have to be pre­North Carolina and 
parPd to play Willi on thP road. This is where having a tough road schedul11 becomes an advantagn." 
The Irish lost thrnn key play­ers to gradua­
tion this year, so thny are looking
for a large num­b11r of freshmen to step in. Fn1shman .len Grubb will command the dnfense, as shn stnps in at sweeper. Shn brings a lot to the team. Grubb is known for lwr speml and maturity on the field. 
"We are trying a brand new system in the back," said Grubb. "This one is easinr than man to man. I am the leadership in the 
hack,  which  is  hard  
becausn  I  am  the  
youngnst."  

The Irish are trying more of a zorw dnfensc, and try­ing to stay away from the man to man coverage. This allows for l11ss hrnakaways and one on one opportuni­tillS. 
To Grubb's left is snnior dnfnndnr Kate Fisher. Fisher is a relatively quiet player with a strong left foot. 
Another ddnnsive stand­out is junior Kate Sobrnro. Sohrnro should fair well in tlw team's nnw system lwcausn she is known as a marking hack. and slw can shutdown anyonn. 
"Wtl arn running a zone this ynar which takns a lot of eommunieation," said l't~truenlli. "Wn will have a strong bark lirw with two vntl'rans on the outside. and tlwn tlw frnshmen in tlw rnntm·." 
Tlw Irish havn one of the most talnnt«~d and stacked midfinlds in thn eountry. "In thn midfiHid, wn have sonw nxtrmnuly talented 
Captaining the Irish this year will once again be senior Jen Renola and Daws. Reno1a will be the starting goalkeeper once again. She holds the record of 13 shutouts set last year. Daws is known for her game winning goal last year to clinch the NCAA championship for the Irish. She also has been a two time All-American. "This year they are stronger and better leaders than they were last year," remarked Petrucelli. 
The true test of the Irish 
Duke. 
North Carolina, 
who returns all of 
its starting lineup 
except for one, is 
currently the top 
ranked team in the 
country. " 
When Notre 
Dame arrives in 
Durham, it will be 
the midpoint in the 
season basically for everyone," stated Duke head coach Bill Hempen. "A lot will come from that weekend. It will make or break a team." 
Duke, who is currently ranked seventh, also should be a formidable opponent for the Irish. 
"Notre Dame finds itself in the same position that North Carolina was in a couple of years ago," said Hempen. 
"When playing Notre Dame you can not focus any individual because they will hurt you with another play­er. They have so many weapons, that they can hurt you from anywhere. 
Sophomore Shannon Boxx (above) is a vital cog in the machine that is the talented group of Irish midfielders, including two-time All­American Cindy Daws and potential Player-of-the-Year candidate Holly Manthei, that will help the Irish vie for their second consecutive national championship. Freshman Jenny Streiffer (right), one of the many talented first year players joining this year's squad, debuted in her new Irish uniform by being named Big East Rookie of the Week based on her performances from last week. Lastly, sophomore Monica Gerardo (below), who was a Soccer America freshman All­American honoree last sea­son, will team with junior Amy Vanlaecke to form a very for­midable and lethal duo on the front line for the Irish. 
The Observer/Rob Finch 
• 
:t 
' 
.. 
-
-

Respect 
continued from page 24 
team fares on the road. 
Petrueelli is fairly opti­mistic about the schedule. In fact, he b111ieves that they might even have the advantage when it comes down to it. "Playing on the road is sometimes easier," he said. "Then1 are less concerns about football gamns, parents, and class­es. This is the time when the team can roally focus players. You find two potential candidates for player of the year in Mathei and Daws. Not to mention Shannon Boxx is a really great player for us," said Petrucelli. 
"We have the best all-around midfield in the country," said Manthei. The Irish plan to use the midfield to their advantage. Manthei will join Daws in the middle of the field. They will command things from the center. Freshman Kara Brown will start at right midfield where she 

has a lot to offer the Irish. She is intense and quick on the outside. 
"The strength of the mid­field lies in that we have four different players with four different strengths," stated Manthei. "Daws has really good vision, while Streiffer has good distribu­tion skills. Brown and I are good at keeping balls in the penalty box." 
Senior Amy VanLaecke and sophomore Monica Gerardo will lead the Irish up front. VanLaecke made the move from defense to forward towards the end of last season, and made an immediatn impact. 
She has already made her presence known with five goals last weekend against Providence and Boston College. Also she was named Big East Offensive Player of the Week. 
Gerardo led the Irish with 20 goals last year. "I played up top with Monica last year. " stated VanLaecke. "She is a great finisher and she takes peo­ple on well." 
Also making an appear­ance in the offensive lineup will be freshman Jenny Streiffer. Streiffer also faired pretty well in her first weekend, and she was named Big East Bookie of the Week. "Jenny will be a great addition," stated VanLancke about her team­matns' potential. "She can come in and play consis­tently." 


~-~-------~-­
page 20 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT Friday, September 6, 1996 
-

.. 
The Notre Dame Varsity Shop has grown to better serve you. 
Please come visit our newly remodeled store in the Joyce Center Fieldhouse. 


original priced merchandise 


"Specializing in Authentic
VARSITY SHOP 
Notre Dame Sportswear.' 
-


,....-----I 0% off--_____, 
original priced 
----merchandise_ ___, 
Cannot be used on "The Shirt '96" 


Cannot be used in conjunction with any other coupons. Varsity shop Hours: Monday through Friday • II a.m. -5 p.m. I Sunday • I p.m. -4 p.m. 
-~------------------------~-----------------------------------------------~--~--------------------~~----~--.. 
Friday, September 6, 1996 The Observer • SPORTS page 21 
• fOOTBALL 
-

Defensive domination offsets fumbles, mistakes 
JOE VILLINSKI 
Associate Sports Editor 
NASHVILLE 
It seems as if the Notre Dame baekfield should have only two words for their team­mates on the other side of the ball. 
W hi I e "you're awesome" might lit the bill, "thank you" would stwm more appropriate. 
I> e s P i t e 
Villinski giving up 
the big play on Todd Yoder's scoring reception, it was the Irish defense that allowed Notre Dame to squeak by in the opener, 14-7. 
Four times the offense would be stalled as Robert Farmer and Marc Edwards had two fumbles apiece. And three of those four times, Vanderbilt was never able to capitalize on the Irish mistakes. 
"The four turnovers by the backs are the most I can ever remember," said coach Lou Holtz. 
Even the one on which the Commodores did capitalize, linebacker Bert Berry record­ed his second sack of the game, seemingly pushing Vanderbilt out of scoring posi­tion. The 6-5 Yoder would 
~~~~~~~~~~ 
Happy 
21st 

Birthday, 
Aud! 
WOULD GET YOU, OR YOUR PEERS TO COME TO THE 
GOODWILL 
ON N. EDDY ST.? 
HOW? 
Design an ad for Goodwill that will run In The Observer, marketing the store on N. Eddy Sl towards Notre Dame & St Mary's students. 
Add to your portfolio, receive some recognHion, and make some money. Yepl MAKE SOME MONEY! Winners will receive $25 cash, or a$25 gift certificate for the Goodwill store on N. Eddy St. Contest Is open to any current Notre Dame or St Mary's student. 
Ad size Is 2 columns (3.9751n.) x 6 ln. Send your design to: Attn: Rich Luke & Landis Advertising Agency, INC. 1014 N. Greene Road Goshen, IN 46526 Include name, address, & phone number. For more Information, call (219) 534·0388. 
............ 

Multiple entries will be accepted and a prize will be awarded for each ad chosen, so enter as many times as you like. 
Deadline for entries Is September 20, 1996. All entries submitted become the property of Goodwill Industries and Luke &Landis 
then jump over 5-10 corner­back Ivory Covington for the touchdown. 
But since the Irish emerged victorious, it does not have to overshadow the entire defen­sive effort. 
"I just didn't make the play," Covington said. "It did cross my mind to interfere, but it's over now and we'll move on." 
They will move on believing in the defense, but shaking their heads over the fumbles. 
For the game, Vanderbilt only managed live first downs to go along with two net yards on the ground and 126 total yards. 
The Irish also recorded five sacks with defensive end Renaldo Wynn leading the way with two. Sophomore Kory Minor also had three tackles and four assists. 
"We challenged our defense and they responded," Holtz said. 
The defensive efforts only become magnified in light of the four fumbles. The usually sure-handed Edwards made up for his mistakes, but it was the play of the Notre Dame front seven that allowed him to do so. 

Head coach Lou Holtz does not tolerate fumbles and removed Farmer as he coughed it up on Notre Dame's fouth offensive play from scrimmage. 
Farmer would then be used sparingly the rest of the game as Autry Denson received a bulk of the time at the tailback position. 
The plan was to utilize Denson at the flanker spot, but when Farmer could not step up in Randy Kinder's absence, Denson would not be looking to catch passes the rest of the night. 
Late in the third quarter Farmer's number was called again and again the senior tailback displayed his tenden­cy to drop the ball. He fum­bled on a one yard run up the middle. 
That's when the defense would rise to the challenge. After giving up their only first down of that quarter, tailback Jason Dunnavant was stuffed twice by the defensive line led by Alton Maiden and Melvin Dansby. 
"We're very frustrated in terms of our offense," Vanderbilt head coach Rod Dowhower said following the game. 
That offense would be frus­trated again in the second quarter following Edward's first fumble at Notre Dame's own 36. 
"I was embarrassed about how I played because I was the one who was the main contributor (to the turnovers)," Edwards said. 
Edwards would not have to worry long, as Minor and Dansby sacked quarterback Damian Allen on the one yard line for a six yard loss. 
Defensive stops such as these set the tone, forcing Vanderbilt out of field goal 
range and Bill Marinangel into the game to punt.
@ATTENTION 
Going into the game, not much was expected from the untested Vanderbilt offense, 
Just Call & Say You 
[ Quality Hair Care ] 
but that does not take away
* Special Haircut Rates For 

from Notre Dame's defense.
Are A Student
College Students 

The Commodores put up an
256-9585 For 
* Haircuts For Only $7.00 

early season challenge in a
Appointment 

game predicted not to be as
(With Student ID) 

Mon.-Fri. 9:00-8:00 
close as it turned out.
* Shampoo, Cut, & Blow Dry 
Sat. 9:00-5:00 
"I want to compliment
Only $)1.00 

Vanderbilt," Holtz added. "I think they gave a tremendous effort. I thought they played an outstanding game. 
"I think their coaching staff did an outstanding job in hav­
BECOME A CATHOLIC 
ing them ready for their open­ing game." "Vanderbilt has a great de­
Sacred Heart Parish 
fense," quarterback Ron Powlus said. " We knew that.
University of Notre Dame 
They are a good team, no doubt about it. There was no underestimation. They are
Offers 

just a good team." 
However, not a good enough team to cause seven fumbles, four that were recovered. In 1993, the Irish only lost five fumbles all year. 
If it were not for the defense keeping victory in hand, the Irish could have suffered their second straight opening sea­son defeat, because no one 
Call Chris Miller at 631-7508 else could keep the ball in their hands. 
R.C.I.A. with: 
Welcome Students 
You are invited to 
FIRST UNITED METHODIST CHURCH 
333 N. Main St., South Bend 
t t
FALL KICK-OFF CELEBRATION 
WORSHIP SERVICES SUNDAY SCHOOL 
8:45a.m. FOR ALL AGES
Sunday, September 8, 1996 
ll:OOa.m. 9:45A.m. 
YOUNG ADULTS' SPECIAL ACTIVITIES following 11 a.m. worship 
September 8: lee Cream Social and Pizza (meet on church front lawn) September 15: "Out to Lunch" (meet at back of sanctuary) • look /or the "'Young Adults Here" sign • call the Church office 233-9463 for a ride or to arrange pick-up 
Nursery care throu~hout the morning, Birth-3 years Parking: Behind Church/Masonic Temple/Junior Achievement 
Dr. Ellwood "Woody" Smitl1, Pastor Tim Robinson, Director of Music/Organist Cindy Solum, Director of Christian Education/Youth Ministrie• 

Visit your campus computer store for the best deals on a Mac. 
Notre Dame Computer Store Room 112 COMB • 631-7477 Monday -Friday 9am -5pm 
•Both the 5400 and 190 include built in ethernet and 25 foot RJ-45 network cable 
Free one-year Apple warranty. 


Offer expires Oclober 11, 1996. ~ 1996A[YJ/e Computer, Inc. Ail rights reser!led. AjJple, the Apple logo, Af!PieCare, LaserWHter, Mac, Macintosh, Peiforma, PowerBook, Power Macintosh and SlyleWH/er are registered trademarks ofA[YJ/e Computer, Inc. PowerPC Is a lrr1tiemork ofInternational Bu.stness Machines Corporalfon, user/ under license therefrom. 
... 
-

-
page 22 
Story 

continued from page 24 
over the success to the sec­ond," Wynn said. "We wanted to bring it to a higher level." 
They were required to as Notre Dame's sudden disease of "fumblitis" festered in the second half. 
Fumbles again by Farmer and Edwards prevented any chance the Irish had of open­ing up a comfortable margin. 
"It was soaking wet out there," said Edwards. "But when I get the ball, it's my responsibility to hold it." 
He betrayed that responsibil­ity at the 13:13 mark of the final quarter, fumbling at his own 22. 
Again, the defense respond­ed, forcing a 3rd and 37. However, Ivong Covington's 5'8" frame betrayed him, and he lost a jump ball in the end zone to Yoder. Brett Speakman's extra-point put the Commodoes ahead. 
"We felt a sense of urgency and the scoreboard told us the whole story. Coach Holtz said to me, "Now we"ll find out just what kind of team we are. " 
A resilient one, it appears. 
Eight runs and five passes brought ND into the end zone. A vital third and 14 completion to Malcolm Johnson kept the drive alive. 
"I was embarrassed (because of the fumbles) but I'm amazed that coach had the confidense to give me the half," Johnson said. 
Vanderbilt returned the fum­bling favor with 4:12 left and the game was pretty much fin­ished. 
"We played as a team and we won as a team," Wynn summa­rized. 
The Observer • SPORTS 

Friday, September 6, 1996 

OFFENSE Ron Powlus -19 for 32, 216 yards passin~ Mark Edwards -22 for 84 yards rushing Autry Denson -19 for 59 yards rushing Emmett Mosely -6 receptions 55 yards Malcolm Johnson-4 receptions 69 yards DeFENse Renaldo Wynn -4 tackles, 2 sacks Melvin Dansby-2 tackles, 1.5 sacks, 3 F,l.ssists 
··~!;b-"' .· ' . . . .:; ;::y:;:::::::~<:·:;\.,._.... :. 
l;lert Berry -4 tackles, 2 sacks 
The Observer/Mike Ruma 
Although he coughed up the ball twice, fullback Marc Edwards 
redeemed himself by scoring the game-winning touchdown. 
FIGHTIN' 
QuARTERBACKS 
Ron Powlus started off slow, but he settled the Irish down the field on the (l~l"l''A··Wn,nu'(l 
RUNNING BACKS 
Fumbles plagued this unit from the . · · handed Edwards had trouble holding onto is, until he scored the winning touchdown. 
WIDE RECEIVERS 
This group showed they could step absence. Malcolm Johnson showed . but a couple drops hurt. 
OFFENSIVE LINEMEN 
Joe Moore's boys allowed no sacks, while ·· plenty of time all night. The holes for tpe · · wide and frequent. · 
COACHING 

INTRODUCING AT 
L.S. AYRES 
tac:Kies. 4 
RTCARD 
A 
company kept constant 
,.............,.,.,u while allowing a net 
A 

swarming the ballcarriers, ab~indl:)n when called apon. 
B+ 

the touchdown pass. Other than that, well and hit hard. Jarvis Edison's the Commodores from gaining the early 
. TEAMS 8+ field goal could have proven costly, but found a gern in Sanson. 
3.30 


cK be. The new fragrance for people. Calvin Klein 

... 
Friday, September 6, 1996 
MIXED MEDIA 
The Observer • TODAY JACK OHMAN 


YOUR HOROSCOPE 
HAPPY IIIRTHDA\'! IN THE NEXT YEAR OF YOUR LIFE: A plan takes shape faster than you believed possible. Farni ly and friends are willing to help out -if you heed their advice. Keep the reins of your life in your own hands. Light-hearted events take place early in 1997. Resist an urge to neglect work fnr fun next spring. A raise or promotion could hang in the bal­ance! April of '97 is the ideal month to buy. sell or renovate real estate. Postpone a marriage or business pro­posal until early next summer 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: actress Jane Curtin, Nobel Prize-winner Jane Addams, basketball player Kevin Willis, country singer David Allan Coe. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): A good day to tie up loose ends. Keep your financial moves on the up-and­up. Leave nothing to chance. Beef up security for your family and property, especially if going out of town. 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Leave your credit cards at home if going to the mall. Window-shop only. Follow your instincts if asked to meet with someone controversial. 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Stop trying to persuade someone to adopt your opinions. They will not budge an inch. Keep a loved one at arm's length during work hours. The two of you can have fun later this evening. 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): Work out a budget that takes into account everyone's needs. Clean off your desk, pay bills and catch up on correspondence. Others arc relying on you. Whistle while you work and the day will fly by' 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Certain 
page 23 JEANNE DIXON 
activities arc worth lookong into before you rule them out. Two rivals compete for your approval. Do not forget a birthday or special anniver· sary. 
VIRGO (Aug. 23·Sept 22): Someone behind the scene~ is root· ing for you. A secret admirer thinks you are the greatest. Relating the facts -as you know them -will help set the record straight. 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Trav· el and recreation arc high on your agenda. Finish your work early in order to make a quick getaway. A fun-filled weekend lies ahead. Choose your companions with care. 
SCORI'IO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21 ): Carefully investigate the pros and cons of a new business venture before investing. A heart-to-heart conversation will lead to renewed romantic commitment. 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21 ): Arguments can put your cash flow or credit at risk. A friendship could also hang in the balance. An objective, fair-minded approach will keep things on an even keel. 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Stretch your dollars to accom­modate a teen-ager's special needs. The news from afar is good. A scholarship or loan will help some­one's dreams come true. 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): A mix-up or misunderstanding could occur today. Poise. not pressure tac­tics, will ease the situation. A young star's talent shines brightly' 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): If possible, help a family member make a down payment on a home. If making a loan, get the terms in writ­ing. Affairs of the heart enjoy favor­able influences . 
SCOTT ADAMS 
~l::V= 

• OF INTEREST 
New HUGS members: A mandatory meeting wiD be beld Sunday at 6:30 p.m. in the Center for Social Concerns auditorium. This meeting will include sign-ups and other hospital volunteering information. 
•MENU  
Notre Dame  
South  North  
,.Vegetarian Vegetable  Cream of Mushroom Soup  
Soup  Southern Fried Chicken  
,,Grilled Turkey Steak  Gyros  
r Shrimp Poppers  Pork Fried Rice  
Kahlua Fudge Torte  
Saint Mary's  
Grilled Steak  
Fried Shrimp  
Vegetable Kabobs  
Tempura Mushrooms  

Have 
something to say? 
Use The Observer classifieds 
ACROSS 1 Valentine inscription, maybe 9 Kind of bank 13 Sundial indication 14 Aristotelian subject 15 Extremely remote, with "of" 16"--Have Eyes for You" 17 ----pamby 18 Noted trumpet blower 20 Shoshoneans 21 Fingers 22 Slammer 23 Swamp thing 
24 Record price-setting van Gogh work 
28 Seedling containers 29 Finally 30 Gridiron stratagems 33 Unnatural 34 Entryway 35 Laborers 36 Sorrowful 37 Memo starter 38 Common coil. degrees 41 They're crazy, man 43 Contract 44 Subtle quality 47 "Enough!" 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 




48 "The River --" (1949 song) 49 Dog star 51 Collapsed, with "in" 52 Accompanying 53 Very willing 54 Four-time Super Bowl champs 
DOWN 

1 Contribute 2 Codgers 3 Outfits 4 Granite 5 Train sta. 
announcement 6 Monologue 
accompaniment 7 Tummy turners 8 Mining layer 9 Threshold parts 
10 Lambs, to Livy 11 Villa decoration 
12 Chemistry radical 13 Dawn 14 Profligate 19 Post and Yeager, e.g. 21 Church cross-section 
23 Grouped 25 Rested 26 London-to­
Doverdir. 27 Bib. edition 28 Deodorized 
30 Erode 311991 AT&T acquisition 32 Seventh-century date 33 Ten years, maybe 35 Nero or 
Rubinstein 38 Rouse 39 Some sheets 40 Definition label 42 Vital regions 
43 "All hope 45 Oscar winner abandon, ye Patricia who enter here!" 46 Prima donna writer 
44 Drug 47 Spin, as a interdictors: floatmg log Abbr. 50 Kickoff point 
Answers to any three clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420-5656 (75¢ per minute). 
Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: (800) 762-1665. 


Make checks payable to: The Observer 
The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. BoxQ Notre Dame, IN 46556 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer 0 Enclosed is $70 for one academic year is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's D Enclosed is $40 for one semester
Community. Name _________________________________________ 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have Address ______________________________________ 
found The Observer an indispensible link to the 
City--------State ____Zip.______
two campuses. Please complete the accompany­ing form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
SPORTS Weekend 
page 24 

On the Defensive 
Irish 'drop' the Colllmodores 
By TIM SHERMAN 
Sports Editor 

NASHVILLE 
Marc Edwards and Robert Farmer seemingly tried as hard as they could to let Vanderbilt perform a "Northwestern." Fortunately, the Notre Dame defense simply would not allow another season-opening loss. 
Seven Irish fumbles, four of which they lost, and a 50-yard fourth quarter Todd Yoder touchdown grab put the Irish on the brink of having their na­tional championship aspirations disappear, but a crucial late fourth quarter 77 -yard march capped by a 3-yard touchdown and two-point conversion from Edwards gave the sixth-ranked Irish a 14-7 heartstopping vic­tory. 
"The positive thing is that we responded," a somber coach Lou Holtz said after the game. "We came back after going down (7 -6) and that is encouraging." 
"The difference is at this time last year, we were 0-1. Now, we're 1-0," Holtz summarized. 
But it was far from easy. 
As expected, Notre Dame en­tered the locker room at half­time with a lead. The problem was that the margin was a tenous 3-0. 
Throughout much of the off­season and even during fall camp, the newly-installed "Blarney" offense had been the source of substantial hype. 
Judging by the play of the first half, the offense was exact­ly that-hype. 
Or at least the execution was. Actually, helpless may have been a better word. 
"We just didn't execute all that well at times," Holtz noted. "We had some openings, but didn't execute." 
Though the Irish did manage to accumulate 190 yards in the first half and ten first downs, it was the errors they committed that led to a half at just three points. 
"The mistakes were mind­boggling," Holtz admitted. "The fumbles, the penalties, every­thing." 
Those gaffes started early, as senior tailback Robert Farmer, starting in place of the injured Randy Kinder, fumbled on Notre Dame's fourth play from scrimmage. 
A zany play ensued, as free safely Jarvis Edison returned a Damian Allen interception from the ND 3-yard line all the way out to the NO 38, only to fum­ble. Melvin Dansby fell on the loose ball. 
The next series typified the type of half Notre Dame experi­enced on the offensive side of the ball. 

The highly-touted offensive line did their job rather well, as Irish backs rushed five times during the drive for 25 yards. But it was ballyhooed signal caller Ron Powlus who strug­gled in the first half. 
The senior missed two clear openings (Raki Nelson at the 5 and Pete Chryplewiczin the end zone) and overthew receivers on numerous occassions. 
"Maybe I was tentative," Powlus offered. "Ron was a litte anxious and excited," Holtz asserted. 
Whatever the case. a late Jim Janson 33-yard field goal was all the offense could muster in the first half. 
The defense, though, was su­perb in its task of keeping the Irish in command. 

"I felt, and I speak for every­one else, very fresh," defensive end Ronaldo Wynn stated. "At times, we felt dominant." 
Dominant indeed. 

Wynn contributed two of the teams five total sacks in the game and was the leader of a defense that dominated the line of scrimmage and allowed just 126 total yards (50 on the Yoder TD) and five first downs. 
"We played well in the first half and just wanted to carry 
see VANDY/ page 22 
·~'b ·,,,.  
·,!j.:  "·r::'·  
,/  
·~i  
:,. h',"  ,:'1 '  
.,.,  .  
.WI  

By KATHLEEN LOPEZ 
Sporrs Wrirer 


The defending national champions are looking for a lit­tle respect. For the first time in the history of women's soc­cer. the defending NCAA Champions are not the top ranked team in the following season. 
"It is a slap in the face," stat­ed junior midfielder Holly Manthei about the No. 2 rank­ing. "Basically it means that we did not gain any respect for what we did last year. This simply gives us more incentive for this year." 
"We are not focused on it," said head coach Chris Petrucelli about the rankings. "We are a little insulted, but we are not focusing on it." 
The Irish have one of the toughest schedules in the nation. They play seven teams that are currently ranked, and they only play two of those teams at home. A key to the Irish success will be how the 

The Observer/Rob Finch 
Seniors Jen Renola (top) and Cindy Daws, a two-time All-American, look to lead the Irish women's soccer team to a second consecutive title. see RESPECTI page 19 
vs. Purdue, ~ September 14, 12:30 p.m. 

Big Four Classic 
•Men's soccer takes on Red Storm 
~ at Notre Dame Today, 7:30p.m. 
vs. Wisconsin, see page 18at Ohio State, 

r!'l 

Friday, Sept. 13vs. Washington, 
~ •Preview of Big Four Classic 
Sunday, 2 p.m. 

Volleyball at Hanover,
r!'l 

' see page 17
~ . Friday, 6:45 p.m. ~ Saturday, 7:30 p.m. 
vs. Sr. John's, 





