~----­

Tuesday, September 24,1996 • Vol. XXX No. 22 TilE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
• CAMPus LIFE couNCil 
Make-up 
CLC plans to address alcohol abuse scheduled 
By MATTHEW LOUGHRAN Assistant News Editor 

for Dec. 5 
The Campus Life Council dis­cussed the problem of student 
Observer Staff Repon alcohol abuse at last night's meeting. Members considered The Dave Matthews Band has forming a committee to investi­rescheduled its appearance at gate what could be done to the Joyce Center for Dec. 5 at combat this problem. 7:30 p.m., according to infor· 
"This is a very crucial ques­mation released yesterday by tion facing the University," said JAM Productions Ltd. Father Patrick Sullivan, an ex­Tickets purchased for the ollicio member. Evidencing his original date of the concert, claim. Sullivan then cited an which was to be held yester­upcoming report from Stanford day, will be honored for the University that ranked Notre new date. Dame first among a list of Tickets are still available at schools with alcohol problems. the Joyce Center box office and 
Originally, Chairman Seth all Ticketinaster outlets. Miller proposed addressing Charge by phone at (219) 272­alcohol in a broad "student 7979. life" committee. However, suf­Requests for refunds will also 
The Observer/Katie Kroener 
ficient objection was raised by be honored and can be 
Last night, members of the CLC discussed forming a committee to investigate alcohol abuse on campus.
the council to warrant consid­received at the place of original ering a separate "alcohol com­purchase.
postponing the decision until cool." he continued, "we need to 
mittee." For those who purchased
the next meeting. Father Joseph Carey, rector avoid having a similar result." 
The council later decided tickets by phone using a credit
"In addition to this talk of of Dillon Hall, agreed and A student life committee and 
that. in addition to focusing on card, a refund request must be
committees, I would like to ask noted the timeliness of the a diversity committee rounded 
the alcohol problem, any future completed by mailing the tick­
· the various campus organiza­issue: "In 1993, we had a big out suggestions for meeting the 
committee could possibly target ets to Ticketmaster, Attention:
tions to promote a non-alco­game with Florida State and it agenda that was approved at 
other campus issues such as Customer Service, P.O. Box
holic culture," said faculty rep­was one of the worst weekends the previous meeting. 
gender relations, student 26450, Columbus, Ohio, 43226.
resentative Ava Preacher. ever with the death of Mara In other CLC news, Ryan 
space, and dorm life. The A traceable method of mailing 
"Much the same as has been [Fox]. Mcinerney, judicial coordina­
council did not formally 
done with smoking, they need "While this is a big game
appoint the new committee, 
to make drinking seem less [Saturday against Ohio State]," see CLC/ page 6 see CONCERT/ page 6 
• SMC ELECTION
• ELECTION '96 

SMC freshmen ready for vote 
The Kimmy Martin (president) and Nancy MiddenTwo tickets square off (vice-president) ticket will work to increase class unity and cultural awareness. "Our primary goal is class unity," Midden said.
for president/VP offices; 
"We want to promote our fellow classmates: their wants, needs, and goals." board spots also up Midden and Martin both served on their student councils in high school, and want to commit their 
By CAROLINE BLUM experience and time to helping out the freshmen 
Saint Mary's Editor 
class. 


The Observer/Katie Kroener 
NO professors Jack Powers {right) and Gary Sieber {left) gave their perspectives on the media's role in Election '96. 
Panel scrutinizes media's bias 
By KRISTEN BOGNER 
News Writer 
Yesterday afternoon, a panel of Notre Dame educa­tors assembled to discuss the responsibilities of the media, politicians, and the individual in the voting process. This week's lecture in the Election 1996 series examined issues in the media that relate to November's presidential election. 
The first speaker, Jack Powers of the Department of American Studies, began by acknowledging the "insertion of opinions and bias in reporting," and by warning people to beware of this occurance. After admitting that bias, however, he proceeded to defend the media's efforts to be "better, cleaner, and more serviceable to !the voter!." Throughout his lecture, Powers emphasized the individual's responsibilty in 
see ELECTION/ page 6 It's that time again. 
Election day at Saint Mary's College. 
As elections commissioner Emily Miller explained. today's freshman class elections hold special signifi­cance for new students. 
"I have enjoyed my job so far because it is exciting to get these freshmen on their feet and get them started in student government," Miller said. "I have been a part of student government for four years, and it's great to see these women begin their journey down the same path." • 
Last week, Miller held two informational meetings for freshmen interested in running for freshmen class office. Despite the fact that the meetings attracted over 45 people. only two tickets are on the ballot for president and vice-president. Furthermore, only seven frosh are competing for the 13 open spots on freshmen board. 
"We had a great turnout at the meetings," Miller said. "But when it came time to turn in platforms, a lot of people weren't sure if they were ready for the responsibility. But that is common, it happens almost every year." 
Two tickets are running for the positions of presi­dent and vice-president. The Beth Beatty (president) and Joan Kowalski (vice-president) ticket will concen­trate on improving relations with Notre Dame and voicing peer concerns. 
"We want our peers to be open with each other," Beatty said. "We want them to be able to come to us with any problems they have, and work to represent us to the best of our ability." 
In addition to experience in student government. Beatty worked for crime stoppers in high school, and Kowalski is currently part of the Trinity Irish Dance Company, which performed last weekend at Saint Mary's. 
If elected, Beatty and Kowalski would also like to plan a class trip to Chicago and have a freshman retreat to promote class unity. 
"We're thinking about instituting a freshmen week­end," Midden explained. "We would bring prospec· tive students to campus, and have them spend the weekend with an assigned freshman." 
Seven women are running for class board, includ­ing Maria Batz, Vera Mackovic, Bellemarie Gonzalez­Estevez, Molly O'Leary, Beth Mayer, Nicole Staab, 
and Janet Harvath. 
Because there are 13 open spots on the board, all can­didates are assured to win in today's elec­tion. 
"Everyone who is running for board will be able to get involved," Miller said. "Once the board has been decided and has 
met with the officers, they can then decide 
if they want to take applications for the remaining six positions. But that decision is left up to them." 
Miller has adopted the election policies, now stated in the Board of Governance Constitution, that were used by last year's commissioner Emily Ruffner. 
"Everything has gone so smoothly," Miller said. "We've had no violations or problems. Everyone has turned in their platforms and receipts on time. It has been a great first election to run." 
Voting takes place for all freshmen in the Dining Hall today, from 7 a.m. to 2 p.m., and again during dinner from 4:30p.m. to 7 p.m. 

Martin 
~--~-~---~ 
~~ ~~-­

------------. 
page2 The Observer· INSIDE Tuesday, September 24, 1996 
• INSIDE COLUMN Nota Convent College Anytime I'm back home and the fact that I go to Saint Mary's College comes up in con­versation, the dialogue usually goes some­thing like this: "Saint Mary's. Is that Maureen Hurley a convent or some­Associare News Ediror thing?" "No, it's a Catholic women's college," I reply. "Oh. So you're going to be a nun then?" It just illustrates how little people really know about women's colleges. As the University of Notre Dame celebrates its 25th anniversary of co-education, Saint Mary's College celebrates its 152nd year of educating women. When Notre Dame was in the process of going co-ed, Saint Mary's offi­cials rejected the suggested merger between the two institutions, and stood behind its com­mitment to being a single-sex institution. Many people still wonder why Saint Mary's refused the merger, especialy as the role of a women's college in today's society is continu­ally challenged and even attacked. In light of the break-up of many all-male institutions, it is no wonder why people ques­tion why women's colleges continue to thrive. A recent essay question for admission to Saint Mary's involved asking the applicant to defend women's colleges in the 21st century. It was easy to list all the facts and figures about graduates of women's colleges succeed­ing at a higher rate than their co-ed counter­parts. However, it's only possible to really · understand what it means to receive an undergraduate degree in such an amazing atmosphere when looking back on one's expe­rience in retrospect. Most students chose Saint Mary's based on its high academic reputation, strong liberal arts program, and small size. Students then come to discover the further benefits of a women's college along the way. The primary argument people pose against women's colleges (other than the obvious inquiries about the social life without men on campus) is that women's colleges merely shel­ter individuals, thereby failing to prepare them to compete outside the protective corri­dors of the institution. In fact, that is the opposite from the truth. By erasing any possibility of gender bias, indi­viduals are empowered to achieve anything­whether it be pursuing a math or science­based field, assuming major leadership roles, or just being outspoken in class-many things that are still dominated by males at universi­ties across the nation. Rather than avoiding women's issues, they are addressed directly in the classroom, and integrated into the curriculum. By increasing this awareness, it is evident not only how far women have come, but how far they still have to go. By entering the "real world" with this confi­dence, experience and awareness, alumnae achieve high levels of success simply because they have not been conditioned to accept soci­etal stereotypes as the norm. The students, faculty and staff of Saint Mary's College continue to stand behind these ideas that, despite critism, have proven to work for nearly 152 years. Afterall, U.S. News & World Report hasn't continually ranked us number one in our class for nothing. The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer.  • WORLD AT A GLANCE British insurers pay for violence in Northern Ireland  
southwestern Ireland. After a s:~;~~~i'r~~~t~~~nd~:t~a~c~ pn-stf~i·n-g-Noriil:'rli-"1 That cushion, and a heavy security ti~n ..the people of_Northern Irelan~ ~re presence of one soldier or police officer 1 Ireland __ ,____ ,, i p1ckmg up the pieces -and Bntlsh l · /'011 ' for every 50 residents, condition people taxpayers are picking up the check. ISince violence li~t escalated to the idea that Northern Ireland may Some people are wondering whether i Northern Ireland mthe 97(ls;ti}\ periodically blow up but never really the government, by covering the tab for ,the British spiral into a full-fledged civil war. d• .. bl , t II !· almost AVAirvrnon.,Northern I lre an s trou es, ac ua y riots and thug~ery. "The fact that the British army is in helps keep them going at a perversely ; billion later, cntlcs Northern Ireland in such numbers acc~ptable level_. . 1 hasn't 00mpounded the holds the ring between the two commu­Smce the Insh Repubhcan Army ~ £120 ··· nities and it always has done," Moxon­began trying to bomb the heart out of 1 · Browne said. Northern Ireland in the early 1970s as I · "Some say, 'Why not withdraw and100part of its campaign against British ·· let the two fight it out?' That would rule, the government has countered by f allow the long-predicted, never-real­insuring almost everything against ter-! ized civil war to take place -and, rorism, riots and thuggery. I maybe, a peace settlement would come It has paid out more than $1.2 billion I in its bloody wake as happened in to businesses, home owners and : Bosnia." motorists, accounting for a critical 1 The British government took over pri­chunk of economic activity in this land mary responsibility for compensating of 900,000 Protestants and 650,000 victims of Northern Ireland's violence Roman Catholics. in 1977, after private insurers increas­The peace process had promised to ingly refused to bear the risk. cut this bill. But then the collision of Professor Desmond Greer, an expert Protestant marchers, Catholic protest­in British compensation law at Queen's ers and riot police in July caused more University of Belfast, says this makes than $30 million in wrecked property. Northern Ireland unique among the Critics say the government's offer to world's conflict zones. reimburse all damage exceeding 200 "The scheme really is part of the way pounds ($300) per claim makes in which the United Kingdom govern­Northern Ireland residents less likely to ment supports Northern Ireland eco­move from hard-line positions that nomically," said Greer, noting that the underpin the conflict. But they see no province produces about $7.5 billion in moral alternative. tax revenue annually but gets $12 bil­"It is perverse, but nonetheless true, lion in support. that the government's compensation "The money paid out in compensa­scheme has provided a big cushion tion is huge by Northern Ireland stan­against the realities of the Northern dards, and pocket money by English Ireland situation," said Eddie Moxon­standards," he said. "Presumably it Browne, a longtime Belfast resident enables businesses to come back again and director of the peace studies pro­APtwm. J. Castello and again no matter what the IRA does. gram at the University of Limerick in It's clearly had a major impact." Dole names Clinton a 'closet liberal' Fragile: Mailing semen is not a felony WASHINGTON ALBANY, N.Y. Bob Dole tried to pin the "liberal" It may be repulsive, but it's not a felony. Prison workers label on President Clinton Monday, con­splattered by bursting packets of prisoner semen are not tending his White House rival was hid­assault victims under a New York law making it a crime to ing his real political colors until after· throw body fluids at jail employees, state Attorney General the election. Clinton retorted that his Dennis Vacco said Monday. The packets were mailed by record showed he was no "closet liber­prisoners at the medium-security prison in Malone to their al." Dole made his remarks on the spouses or girlfriends, and burst when run through the third anniversary of the introduction of prison's mail machines, prison Superintendent Eugene Clinton's health care overhaul plan, LeFevre said. The law makes throwing feces, urine, blood addressing a.crowd in front of a 10-foot chart titled "Bill or seminal fluid a felony, punishable by up to five addition­Clinton's liberal, big government health care plan." al years behind bars with no chance of early release. It "Some of you might remember this chart," Dole said. was unclear whether the prisoners wanted to harm or "The patient is finally there on the bottom." harass the employees, Vacco determined. VMI women protest shaving heads Authors split $24,140 in prize money ROANOKE, Va. COPENHAGEN, Denmark The Virginia Military Institute's decision to admit women Salman Rushdie and Austrian writer Christoph but make them shave their heads like male cadets was Ransmayr were awarded the European Union's Aristeion blasted Monday by the National Organization for Women literary prize Monday. They will divide the prize, worth as an attempt to humiliate females. "They're poor losers," $24,140. Rushdie is chiefly known for his novel "The said Karen Johnson, a NOW vice president and retired Air Satanic Verses," which Iran's Islamic government Force colonel. "The haircut is just a way of being vindic­declared blasphemous in 1989 and called for his death. tive," she said. VMI voted Saturday to end its 157-year He has mostly lived in hiding since. The EU award recog­male-only tradition, taking action nearly three months nizes his latest novel, "The Moor's Last Sigh." Ransmayr after the U.S. Supreme Court ruled the school must admit shared the prize for his third novel, "Morbus Kitahara," women or give up public funding. But the vote came with which has not yet been translated into English. Ransmayr a demand: women must have their heads shaved and pass lives in Dublin. Rushdie and Ransmayr will divide the the same physical tests as men, something even the Army, cash prize, worth $24,140. The Aristeion Prize for Navy and Air Force academies don't require. Translation went to Danish writer Thorkild Bjoernvig. • NATIONAL WEATHER 5 Day South Bend Forcast AccuWeather'" forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures The AccuWeather®forecast ·for noon, Tuesday, Sept. 24. Tuesday Wednesday-i) 
• TODAY'S STAFF  
News Production Saskia Sidenfaden Jackie Moser  Thursd(!ly (f  
Derek Bercher Tara Grieshop  
Sports Lab Tech Karhleen Lopez Dave McCaffrey  FRONTS:Friday_; -i) ...,.....,.­........._ ..,...ay.  
Graphics Michelle Sweer  COLD WARM STATIONARY C 1996 AccuWeather, Inc. Pressure ~ ~ ,J\  
Pere Cilella  H L El ISS!~ 0133 § ¥ L...!c........! HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUCIY CLOUDY V.I.I~~Pnw Atlanta 85 63 Dallas 86 66 New Orteans 89  
Tho Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacarion periods. The Observer is a member of  Baltimore 72 53 Denver 70 46 Pittsburgh 68~·~&aal.a (f ~ ~ Boston 66 54 Los Angeles 80 64 St. Louis 68S~~~.',; T-~~~;~s Rain ~~~;;;~~ -~~;~i· ~~-:_ Sunny Pr. ;,oudy Cloudy Chicago 65 45 Memphis 81 62 Sail Lake City 65  
the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved.  VIa Associated Press Graph/csNet Columbus 71 48 Miami 88 76 Seattle 73  


Fall forum for flaunting fancy footwork ... 

The Observer/Katie Kroener Ben Thimmes, an off-campus sophomore, takes advantage of mild weather to bounce around a hackey-sack. 

SMC calls attention to symbols 
By SHANNON RYAN 
News Writer 
How does a Catholic women's college incorporate the use of religious symbols on campus? This is exactly what Sister Bettina Maria Ferraro, Assistant to the Vice President for Mission, inquired of Saint Mary's students in a recent questionaire. 
In light of the College Mission Statement, Saint Mary's has taken new strides this year to strengthen its Catholic back­ground. By adding the new position of Vice President of the Division for Mission, the college hopes to intensify its ties to the founding Sisters of the Holy Cross. 
"We hope this will enforce a new emphasis on Saint Mary's as a Catholic college," replied assistant professor for reli­gious studies Elizabeth Newman. 
The survey is the first attempt to gather thoughts and opinions from the entire Saint Mary's community on how symbols communicate the reli­gious identity of the college. A committee is in the process of assessing the means by which Saint Mary's reflects its faith through these symbols. 

Numerous religious statues and icons enhance the Saint Mary's campus. From the Gothic architechture of 
'We'd like to enter 
the year 2000 reflecting upon our Catholic identity in the next millenium, but not forgetting the traditions of the past.' 
Sister Bettina Maria Ferraro 
LeMans Hall to the Christ the Teacher statue in front of Madeleva, students are sur­rounded by religious symbols. 
The committee questioned how often these signs of faith are taken for granted. The religous symbolism question­naire encourages students, faculty and staff to volunteer their ideas and discover what impact these symbols have on those visiting and inhabiting the Saint Mary's campus. 
Not only does the College hope to emphasize these sym­bols to Catholics in the twenti­eth century, but it would like to extend its symbolism to cul­tures and religions of the next century. The committee is interested in exploring new avenues of multiculturalism among students. By encourag­ing the display of other reli­gions' icons, the committee hopes to welcome those of dif­ferent faiths. 
The College has a modern approach to the coming of the new millenium. "We'd like to enter the year 2000 reflecting upon our Catholic identity in the next millenium, but not forgetting the traditions of the past," Ferraro replied. 
The Saint Mary's campus would like to promote hospital­ity through these symbols while reflecting on the beauty and mission of the college. Ferraro responded, "Symbols invite us to move into the deeper meaning of things and speak beyond our ability to articulate." 
Health Center lor treatment of a sports Injury . 
• SECURITY BEAT 
inJury. Sunday, Sept. 22 
1:06 p.m. A Stanford Hall resident Friday, Sept. 20 Saturday, Sept. 21 reported the theft of wallet and keys from 
10:11 a.m. A University employee 1 :30 a.m. A University Village resident his room. 
reported hil·and-run damage to her vehi· reported the theft of his bike from a 1 :25 p.m. A Keough Hall resident was cle while parked In the 82 parking lot. 
University Village bike rack. The bike transported to St Joseph Medical Center 
4:30 p.m. Security transported a Zahm was locked at the lime of the theft. for treatment of a sports injury. 
Hall resident to St. Joseph Medical 3:00 a.m.Security transported an 2:46 p.m. A Morrissey Hall resident Center for treatment of a sports injury. Alumni Hall resident to St. Joseph reported the theft of his bike from outside 
7:40 p.m. A University employee was Medical Center for treatment of injuries Morrissey Hall. The bike was locked at 
transporled to the University Health sustained during a fall. the time of the theft. Center for treatment of an Injury. 4:10 p.m. Security transported a 3:14 p.m. A Howard Hall resident 
8:30 p.m. A Flenner Hall resident was Stanford Hall resident to St. Joseph reported receiving a harassing telephone transported by Security to the University Medical Center for treatment of a sports call. 
Celebrate a friend's birthday with an Observer ad 


Maybe you majored in advertising and did not even know it. 


LEO BURNETT COMPANY, INC. 
So you majored in English. Or Psychology. Or PLS. Or even Art History. No matter. Fact is, you may very well have pre­pared yourself for a career in advertising. At Leo Burnett, we're not interested in majors -we're interested in people who like to think. So come and learn about a career in Client Service. After all, you have the prerequisites. Seniors of all majors are welcome. Casual dress. 
Wt~dnesday, September 25th, 7:00pm • Alumni-Senior Club 
• STUDENT ACTIVITIES BOARD 
Board welcomes members 
By ALLISON KOENIG 
News Writer 
The Saint Mary's Student Activities Board welcomed 30 new members last night. President Lori McKeough began by reading the SAB mission statement and giving back­ground on the work that the group does for the school. 
McKeough informed newcom­ers that their responsibilities would mainly entail working on the specific SAB committees under the direction of the respective chairwomen. 
She stressed the importance of their involvement in all of the board's activities. "Word of mouth is the absolute best way to get the rest of the student body to attend our events. We expect you to publicize as much as possible," said McKeough. 
The board members intro­duced themselves and spoke on their roles in the organization. President Lori McKeough, Treasurer Melissa Sanchez, and Administrative Coordinator Christina Mueller take care of the basic administratory roles for SAB. 
The other chair positions for SAB committees are: 
• 
Katie Trumper, movies and munchies 

• 
Jen Ugda and Jessi Lentych, traditional events 

• 
Mia Rinehold, Crack-ups Comedy Cafe 

• 
Katy Pain. speakers 


• 
Bronwyn McAuliffe, diversity committee 

• 
Lori Riebe and Gretchen Moore, entertainment/recre­ational committee 

• 
Kelly Medlin, public rela­tions coordinator 


After introductions, the board separated into committees to talk to the interested students about upcoming events and their potential roles in them. 
"The women I talked were very enthusiastic about what they could do for SAB. I share that same excitement. It is the student involvement that makes this group successful," said Rinehold. 
ATrENTION SOPHOMORES! 
GET INVOLVED IN 1996-97 JPW 
The committee for this year's Junior Parent's Weekend is looking for a sophomore chairper­son. This is your chance to get involved in one of the most exciting events of junior year. Don't let this opportunity pass YOU by, apply now! 
• 
Applications are now available at the LaFortun Information Desk 

• 
Applications must be returned to 315 LaFortune by September 26th. 


IF YOU HAVE ANY QUESTIONS PLEASE CALL JOHN MENICUCCI X4113 

page 4 The Observer • INTERNATIONAL NEWS Tuesday, September 24, 1996 
• RUSSIA 

Yeltsin surgery affects Russian sentiments 
By DAVE CARPENTER 
Associated Press Writer 

MOSCOW 
Amid rising fears that Boris Yeltsin' s health is too fragile right now to withstand 
heart surgery, a top American cardiovascu­lar surgeon flew in Monday to offer his opinion. The Communists 
Yeltsin
demanded Yeltsin step down if he can't govern. 

Russian stocks slid 3 percent on concerns over Yeltsin's health, and the credibility of official reports on his condition crumbled. Terse official accounts of a basically healthy patient heading into routine surgery have fallen apart, chal­lenged by Yeltsin's doctors themselves. 
Television newscasts led with the arrival of heart specialist Dr. Michael DeBakey, who will Jom in examinations Wednesday that could set a date for Yeltsin's bypass opera­tion. 
The top Russian surgeons who invited DeBakey are now talking about delaying the operation because of related health concerns. 
While declaring ''I'm always optimistic," DeBakey told reporters he could give no specifics because he had not seen Yeltsin yet. 
Dr. Renat Akchurin, the pres­ident's surgeon, said over the weekend that the operation may l,lave to be delayed for up to two months while Yeltsin's health is stabilized. The presi­dent, who has been in the Kremlin hospital since Sept. 13, said earlier the operation would be late this month and reportedly is pressing doctors to operate. 
"The operation most proba­bly won't take place this month, but the final decision will be made by doctors at Wednesday's consultation," Yeltsin press spokesman Sergei Yastrzhembsky told The Associated Press. 
Akchurin, in a Russian televi­sion interview Sunday, said proceeding with the operation at an early date "might entail some risk." 
Without being specific, he suggested Yeltsin may have been overdoing things recently, such as fishing and hunting, which are "not recommended." 
Presidential aides confirmed that Yeltsin had been hunting and fishing at a private hunting lodge and doctors were con­cerned he was overexerting himself. Yeltsin was being kept in hospital so he could rest, lose weight and build up his strength for the operation, they said. 
Despite the widespread con­cern that Yeltsin is seriously ill and no longer running the gov­ernment, the president has been seen on television meeting with aides regularly and appears to be in overall con­trol. 
• PUERTO RICO 

Telescope gets hearing aid 
By JAMES ANDERSON 
Associated Press Writer 

Listening to the 
ARECIBO, Puerto Rico heavens One of the world's largest 
The Arecibo Observatory, located in the
radio telescopes is getting a 
hills of northwest Puerto Rico, has nearly$30 million hearing aid, and completed a $30 million upgrade on the astronomers are primed to world's largest and most sensitive radio­
radar telescope. The project will improve
pick up more of the heavens' 
the telescope's sensitivity, resolution and
secrets. 

wavelength coverage. The observatory's

Scientists have suspended a facilities: 90-ton dome, vaguely resem­
Radome

bling a giant golf ball, 45 sto­ries above the receiver dish at Puerto Rico's Arecibo Observatory. 
The new gadget will allow Arecibo to scan thousands of previously untapped radio frequencies for signals from space. 
Arecibo not only listens to signals but sends them as well. It bounces radar off nearby planets and asteroids and measures the returning signals to create maps of those objects. 
Arecibo's radar signal will 
reflector which is set in a Suspended 426 feet
double in strength once the 
above the reflector Is a 600-ton platform (Azimuth arm), ..•
overhaul, paid for by the 
holding the Gregorian system in place. In add!ition to •t National Aeronautics and sending out signals, \he telescope can monitor radio Space Administration and the waves reflected from objects in space. It works by using 
radio .mirrors focus incoming waves.
National Science Foundation, 
·:· :~·::?:lt1&ht+­

is completed by year's end. 
"It will be the most powerful signal emitted from Earth," said Rey Velez, operations director at Arecibo, which is run by Cornell University under a coop­erative agreement with the sci­ence foundation. 
Unlike optical telescopes such as the orbiting Hubble, Arecibo listens to the sounds of space. Its 1,000-foot-wide dish cap­tures radio signals emitted by distant stars and by building­block elements like hydrogen. 
Using these signals, scientists 
The Gregorian system Gregorian reflectors are housed inside a radome, protecting them from wind distortion. Radio signals reach the reflectors through an entrance 
aperature at the radome's base. 
System attributes 
• 
One 80-foot-wide mirror 

• 
One 28-foot-wide mirror 


.OOIU-!OOI·V~IOe spherical 
can create computer pictures of distant galaxies and interstellar gas clouds that are invisible to optical telescopes. By detecting the presence of organic mole­cules, they can better under­stand the composition of stars and other phenomena. 
Resembling a 20-acre cereal bowl stuffed into a giant tropical sinkhole, Arecibo has tuned its fine ear to space since 1963. 
It helped provide the first evi­dence of planets outside our solar system and confirmation 
Areclbo San Juan 

&~
25miles 
~ Car/bean 
25kms Sea 

of Albert Einstein's predicted gravity waves -distortions in space and time caused by mov­ing objects. 
In 1965, scientists bouncing radar signals off Mercury deter­mined that the innermost planet spins more slowly than first thought. In 197 4, two scientists working at Arecibo discovered the first binary pulsar, an orbit­ing pair of aging, collapsed stars. A pulsar emits little light but is a source of very intense radio waves. 


GENDER STUDIES PROGRAM NEW FACULTY RECEPTION 


"The WOrk ofGender Studies" 
Welcoming Remarks 
Natha~ t-latch Provost Carol Moo~e~ Vice Preside~t1 Associate Provost 3ames Merz -Vice Preside~t1 c::\radt1ate School t-larold Attridge-Dea~1 Arts a~d Letters 
Addressesfrom Concentrators and Graduate Students 
Macaire Carroll (Theolog~/c::\5 Co~ce~trator) 3aso~ L~~ch (Ps~cholog~/c::\5 Co~ce~trator) Bridget 5wee~~ (Biochemistr~/c::\5 Co~ce~trator) Kerr~ Rockqt1emore (c::\radt1ate 5ociolog~) 3ea~~e Petit (C\radt1ate t-listor~) 
Allfaculty, graduate students, undergraduates, staffwelcome 
Hesburgh Library Lounge Wednesday, September 25, 1996 4:15 -6:00p.m. 




Renovating Harlem: 

Net abuse sparks controversy 
EDITOR'S NOTE -Chatting called newsgroups, on every came from a Department of 
The new 'Metropolis'

on the Internet in a newsgroup topic imaginable. Social and Health Services 
where everybody is interested in the same topic can be lots of fun. But should employees of state go11ernments be advertis­ing fishing flies and old wed­ding rings for sale or nattering on about soap operas? Dave Wickham, a Washington state electrician. doesn't think so. And he has been tracking 
abuses. 

By AVIVAL. BRANDT 
Associ~tcd Press Writer 

YAKIMA, Wash. 
Ron Finley knows the pounding agony of the morn­ing after. "I get hung over at the drop of a hat," he writes. "I am very sensitive to alcohol and the impurities that are thrown in to it." 
Finley's hangovers are not private. You can look it up; Finley posted his comments. misspellings and all, on the Internet. 
He's not alone in that ­multitudes around the world exchange comments on Usenet, a global bulletin board made up of more than 15,000 separate discussion groups, 
But Finley. head of security for the Washington state House of Representatives, used Internet access at work to chat about his hangovers ­at least until his boss found out, and put a stop to it. 
He's not alone in that, 
either. State employees across 
the country are using their 
work computers to sell their 
cars, look for new jobs and 
schmooze about soap operas, 
rock 'n' roll, slacking off and 
more. 
"I always subscribe to the theory that the worst vacation is better than the best day at work," writes Leslie Anderson, a computer analyst-program· mer at the Washington Department of Transportation, in a recent posting. 
Some would say that these 
postings -even if composed 
and transmitted during breaks 
or off-hours -are inappropri· 
ate: 
Dave Wickham, a one-man 
Internet watchdog, is among 
the grumblers. 
Wickham was incensed when he realized an Internet ·advertisement for fishing flies account. 

"I figure if it's a private employer, that's their business and who cares. But where it's state government, it seems like it's our problem," said Wickham, a 44-year·old elec• trician in Cle Elum, Wash. 
"Plus, you know, you feel like a state employee should somehow be representative of you, and where they're out trolling on the 'Net for dates, it kind of reflects on the state and the way it's run." 
Wickham made it his busi­ness to track the abuses. He has created a Web page with examples from every state in the · Union (http://www.adsnet.net/states. btm). 
"Some of what I've got on that Web page, I feel real bad about putting on there," he said. 
"There's one ··~~'guy in Tennessee who goes into a long story about being sexual· ly abused by his minister. You hate to put that out there but man, they shouldn't be doing that. What drives someone to do that I can't imagine." 
<K• 
ByHERBERT McCANN 
Associated Press Writer 
CHICAGO 
Nat King Cole and Scott Joplin came out of the neigh­borhood. Lena Horne stayed there. Ethiopian Emperor Haile Selassie paid a visit, and Richard Wright wrote "Native Son" while a resident. 
But Chicago's once-flourish­ing Bronzeville section, like New York's Harlem a bastion of black culture for decades, has deteriorated into a com­munity of vacant lots and run­down buildings. 
Now city officials and some of the remaining residents want to bring the area back to life by showcasing its past and restor­ing its landmarks. 
"There is a tremendous black history here -the homes along King Drive, the blues section that was on 43rd Street. Some of our great lead­ers came out of the area," said Alderman Madeline Haithcock, who represents part of the neighborhood. 
In an attempt at redevelop­ment. community officials plan 




SERRIN FOSTER 
EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR. FEMINISTS FOR LIFE OF AMERICA 
·The Feminist case Against Abortion" 
TuesdaySe tember 24 7:OPM LibraryAuditorium 



Sponsored 13y: 
Feminists For Life of ND-SMC 
&. 

Notre Dame Right To Life 

to construct single-family homes, redevelop businesses and renovate historic build­ings. 
The project is receiving both private and public money, including $2.7 million in feder­al empowerment-zone funds and $825,000 from the state. 
"A bunch of organizations, businesses and churches have signed on to a vision," said Pat Dowell-Cerasoli, executive director of a community rede­velopment group. "They want to restore the best aspects of Bronzeville." 
William Barnett, a former alderman and lifelong resident, hopes to rehabilitate the Eighth Regiment Armory, the first in the country built for a black-commanded regiment. Barnett wants to put a child care center, training facilities and black culture exhibits in the building. But first, he must pay the $200,000 in taxes that have piled up while it stood vacant for 20 years. 
In the years after World War I, blacks from the South migrated by the thousands to a small area on the southern edge of The Loop, Chicago's business district. They took jobs in factories and mills. 
Bronzeville -the name was coined by a black newspaper editor in the 1930s -turned segregated housing into an advantage, becoming a cultural center. 
Olympic hero Jesse Owens, boxer Joe Louis and comedian Redd Foxx lived there. Thomas 
A. Dorsey, a blues pioneer and creator of modern gospel music, practiced at a neighbor­hood church. Johnson Publishing Co .. publisher of Ebony and Jet magazines, had its offices there. 
Bronzeville's economic and social base grew so large that it became known as "Black Metropolis." 
But in the 1950s, the neigh­borhood went into a slide. Its population fell from 193,000 in 1950 to 66,000 in 1990. Mammoth public housing pro­jects replaced private housing. Businesses closed, leaving few shopping options. 
Some rehabilitation has already occurred. The 1931 Chicago Bee Building, original­ly the home of several black newspapers, has been modern­ized and converted to a public library. 
The area around the Illinois Institute of Technology, with its Frank Lloyd Wright-designed houses, has been revitalized with an influx of middle-class residents. 
And liT's College of Architecture and Harvard University's Graduate School of Design are working on redevel­oping 35th Street, where Earl "Fatha" Hines, Duke Ellington and Louis Armstrong played at the Sunset Jazz Cafe and Grand Terrace Lounge. 

Quick Service-Reasonable 
• 
Fix any leather goods 

• 
Replac.e zipper -Shines 



• Orthopedic & Pedorthic Specialist 

I00% Guarantee 8-6 Monday­Friday 9-3 -Saturday I 025 East Madison 
288-6211 

page 6 
The Observer • NEWS Tuesday, September 24, 1996 
Election 
continued from page 1 
elections regarding this duality in the media. 
He advised that the public not be deterred from following the media's coverage of the upcoming election, but that observers continue to exercise their own judgement concern­ing the reliabilty of key sources. 
He finished with an eloquent statement concerning a well­known cliche. The word "politi­cian," he explained, has taken on a burden of negative conno­tations in the United States, however; 
"Politicians are the people we elect, people who could be doing other things for a greater reward," Powers reminded. 
He urged the audience to contemplate what these offi­cials mean to America, and to also start reading up on elec­
tion  issues  now,  not  in  
November.  
Gary  Sieber,  of  the  

Department of Communication and Theatre, followed with a description of the influences by various types of media in the election process. Sieber emphasized the future changes that the "explosion of new media" will effect in our "glob­al village." 

On how to make informed choices in the '96 election, Sieber explained that the edu­cated voter must first under­stand the media and its short­comings, such as the restric­tions that television stations have on censoring political advertisements. He urged the voter to try to "understand the political processes such as pan­dering, sound bites, photo opportunities, and manipula­tion" of the media. 
He continued to explain that a knowledgeable voter must also avoid "dependence on any single medium" as the basis for candidate selection. Sieber stressed that your voice is your "primary tool as citizens." He recommends complaining as an effective means of advertise­ment; the media will respond rapidly with its viewership and readership. 
Yet, until the media responds with only the absolute truth, the educated voter must "wade through all of the nonsense and decide what [he] thinks is the truth. 
This session was the third in a series of lectures entitled "The 1996 Elections and the Common Good." During next Monday's session, Notre Dame faculty will discuss "Poverty and Welfare" at 4:00 p.m. in the University Club. 

Sub raises questions for South Koreans 
By REID MILLER 
Associated Press Writer 
SEOUL, South Korea 
Whatever its mission, the North Korean submarine that ran aground off South Korea's east coast last week accom­plished one thing: It uncovered a flaw in the South's defenses. 
At the same time, it may have inadvertently strengthened the hand of a South Korean gov­ernment worried that the United States is moving too fast to restore relations with its Korean War foe. 
President Kim Young-sam called it a deliberate act of provocation and said it should serve to show "all people around the world the true pic­ture of North Korea." 
The incident "has given South Korea secure grounds to criticize, and hold in check, the 
U.S. policy toward North Korea," the daily Dong-A Ilbo of Seoul said in an editorial. 
North Korea broke its silence over the incident Monday, demanding the return of the submarine and its occupants, dead or alive. It said the sub­marine had drifted into enemy waters after experiencing engine trouble during a train­ing mission. 
South Korea refused the request and called North Korea's explanation "nonsensi­cal." 
Defense Secretary William Perry also rejected the North Korean claim, telling reporters in Denmark on Monday that all evidence suggests the submarine "was not on a routine mission." 
A South Korean statement released at the United Nations said the North "should at least publicly admit to their infiltra­tion attempt and apologize." North Korea also should agree to meet South Korean officials for talks at the U.N. buffer zone in Panmunjom, it said. 

Seoul long has insisted that before any of its allies strength­en ties with Pyongyang, there first should be improvement in its own relationship with the North, which it holds solely responsible for the tense, icy atmosphere. 
A 1953 armistice stopped the fighting, but the two Koreas technically remain at war. Persistently, Pyongyang has said it will discuss a permanent peace treaty only with the United States and not with South Korea, which it sees as a 
U.S. puppet. 
In recent years, Washington has inched toward closer rela­tions with the North. It con­cluded a pact aimed at prevent­ing North Korea from produc­ing nuclear weapons and tenta­tively agreed to exchange liai­son offices with Pyongyang. 
Washington has also shown a greater willingness than Seoul to ship food aid to North Korea, now suffering from flood­induced food shortages border­ing on famine. Pyongyang has responded, permitting the United States for the first time to send military teams to North Korea to search for the remains of Americans killed in the 1950-53 war. 
The government in Seoul has openly worried that its commu­nist rival may use those devel­opments as a means of further expanding its relations with Washington. 

Concert 
continued from page 1 
should be used when request­ing a refund, according to Joe Sassano, program manager for the Joyce Center. 
The concert was postponed from its original date due to the death of the bassist's daughter. 
CLC 
continued from page 1 
tor, raised the idea of setting a schedule for Patricia O'Hara's review of the new Notre Dame Lesbian and Gay Students group. He began to make a motion that the CLC recom­mend this time table, but then decided to wait until next meeting to submit the motion in written form. 
On a final note, Brendan Tobin and Mike Irvine, the off­campus senators, announced a meeting to discuss security and other off-campus issues. The meeting is planned for Wednesday at 4:45 p.m. in the Student Government office and is open to the public. 

It was just a summer job. Now it's the rest of your life. 
Remember when your biggest career concern was running out of paper cups? And when it was easy to handle any summer job because it was just a summerJOb? 
Now you're graduating. You want a career that will challenge you every day and offer a variety of responsibilities. You want to work where the learning curve 
doesn't flatten out after a couple of years. 
At Andersen Consulting, our challenges change daily, like the world in which we work. Our job is to help clients do what they do. Only better. 
Come talk to us about a career with Andersen Consulting. 
Andersen Consulting IS an equal opportuntty emptoyef. 
ANDERSEN CONSULTING 
Where we go from here: 
Sign-ups for interviews with Andersen Consulting will take place today at Career and Placement. Interviews will be conducted on October 14 and 15th. Please stop by the Andersen Consulting Career Day on Tuesday, October 1st from 12:00-6:00pm in the LaFortune Ballroom. All majors welcome! 

Award Winni 
Antho Susa 

Tuesday, September 
Susan Bergman Poetry DeBartolo 126 7:30 p.m. 
Anthony Walton Poetry Galvin Auditorium 7:30 
d Essayists 




I ton 






VIEWPOINT 

Tuesday, September 24, 1996 

Ed1tor·in-Chic:f Elizabeth Foran Business Manager Matt Casey 
New• Editor ...................... 1\rad Prendergast Advertising Manager ............................ Eilen Ryan Viewpoint Editor .................. Ethan llayward Ad Design Manager ............... jed Peters Sporu Ediror .................... Tinwrhy Sherman Producdon Manager,.. . .......... Tara Grieshop Acu~nt Editor. ..Joey Crawford Systems Manager ....................... Michael Brouillet 
Saint Moary's Editor. . ... C;uoline Blum Controller. .. ............................... Tyler Weber l,hnto Edilor . . ........... Mkhacl Ruma 
The Ob.'Crver is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Norre Dame dtt f.•u· Jnd SJinr Mary's College. lr doc/) nor necessarily reflecr rhc policies of che adminisrr<~­uon of C"ithC'r insrinuinn. The news is reported as accurately and objecrivc:ly as possible. Unsigned edi­tonJ.I~ represent rhc opanion of du~ majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Edicor, ViC'wpoinr Editor, At.·ccnr Editor. Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Cununeuurie'i, letreu ;mJ lnsiJC" Columns present the views of thC' authors, and not necessarily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to allmemhcn of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's com­munity and to all reader\. The free expression of varying opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 
Editor-in-Chief 631-4 542 Bmine.s Office 631-5313 Managing Editor/Viewpoint 631-4541 Advertising 631-6900/8840 Sport~ 631-4543 Systems/Marketing Dept. 631-8839 Ncw~/Phnto 631-5323 Otlice Manager 631-7471 At:cent/.Sainr MJry's 631-4540 Fax 631-6927 lhy Editor/Production 631-5303 Viewpoint E-Mail Viewpoint. I@nd.cdu (i('nerJ!Informarion 631-7471 Ad E-Mail observer@darwin.cc.nd.edu 
• lETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

Hostilities merit thought, prayer 
Dear Editor: 

As mmnbcrs of Pax Christi, the International Catholic P1men Movement, and the Notre Dame community, we have become increasingly con­cernml about the hostility shown by the U. S. in the Iraqi situation. As Christians, we must always question and address all forms of vio­ltmrn and hatn~d that we encounter. The threat of aggression rm[uirns critical consideration. 
The Gospels implore each of us to resolve con­flict with open !warts, to reject hatred, and to listen and forgive. Yet the hostile rhetoric of the 
U. S. towards Iraq refleets an extreme contradic­tion to this rnnssage.Tiw military build-up in the (;ulf n~gion snrves only to increase tension and hatred. 
Last wenk, Secretary of Defense William Perry said thn American response to Iraqi military movenHmt would bn "disproportionatP.." Even for supporters of .lust War Theory, this is a direct violation of the stipulation of "proportionality." 
Tlw U.S. ext1msion of the "no-flight" zones and tlw deployment of morn troops and armaments to the Gulf region as attempts to "keep Hussein in a box" arn eomplet11ly contrary to internation­al diplomacy, much less a spirit of listening and forgiveness. This, in fact, creates a situation of dominanee. We Christians must reject this in our call towards embradng all people as brothers and sisters. 
Because wn are pnacel'ul but not passive, we invite all members of the Notre Dame communi­ty to pray together for a spirit of forgiveness. At noon today, we will gather near the flag pole on South Quad, with a short prayer service begin­ning at 12:20 p.m. 
TONYPOHLEN 
ROBERT RYAN III 
KYLE GREEN 
ROSEMARY CALLIALISO 
MICHELE LICHTENBERGER 
MICHAEL BAXTER CSC 
NATHANIEL MARX 
CHRISTOPHER POWERS 
ClARE FELTON 
JOSEPH ROSS, CSC 
Pax Chrisri-Notre Dame 
page 7 
GET A HOf MEAL-WlHCH BY1tiE.WAY,~ COULD I 
REALL'( USE.... 

Discipline essential for security 
Dear Editor: 

What were the students who were assaulted, as reported in the Sept. 9 edition of the Observer, doing outside their halls after midnight and at 2:50 a.m.'? If this is allowed by the University, then what is needed is not more security but more responsibility by the University, in loco parentis, and much more concern about the developmental welfare and maturity of those in its charge. 
Discipline is an essential for success in evnry part of life, be it in business, sports, religion, academies, the mili­tary or family happiness. When we were at Notre Dame, the good Fathers impressed this on us by 10 
p.m. room checks and before mid­night sign-in on limited special per­mits that were earned. Our parents and family didn't have to worry. They knew, as did we students, that the 
Whining hatralready begun 

that was taught me at Notre Dame, I hope that the present administration would love its present student body enough to do the same. 

As one who appreciates the great lesson of the necessity of discipline in all aspects of life to achieve happiness 
BURNIE BAUER 
Class of'38 and MA '46 

Dear Editor: This letter is in response to Jim Cierzniak's Sept. 10 article entitled 'Back to School Blues.' 
Great to be back, Jim, Let your much valued opinion~ of South Bend once again trumpet; Please. No seriou~ly; since you brought up the topic ofwhiqing, let me retort. 
I seom to remember a time ba~k in the 1992·1993 school year when you did some whilling yourself. As a student of Penn High School, class ofl993, where atthat time you taught history (and may still), I seem to remem­ber you as one of the biggest, and only, advocates against the College Football Hall>ofFame. lt would be the economic dovynfall of us all, g~labned, as your Ul.ce plastered aU over the .. . ·· .. . .. > 
Well, last timEd saw the news>l heard the Co 
Football Hall of. Fame has been doing quite well, alo¢~:tl news event which you most certainly downplay. Nevertheless. ever since then in my following years a.t Notre Dame, 1 have seen your name here, there and 
everywhere. .. . . . • ••• ..·· •.• The Observer., ~he. South Benq:tfr\pune, a~d sources of local.media are your playground. A Ja~ 
culation for one of the true "whiners" of the dty. 
Let me ask you, why do you so sar<~astkally nttat~k the things which are not hurting you? Last tinH) I checked, The Observer was a student newspaper pertaining to the lives of students. 
On that note, I myself, as a student, was upset at the no-booze policy of Senior Bar. Not becnuse I want to drink at 12:00 in the afternoon, no, but rather beeause I 
, would like to spend some last "peaceful'' moments alone, ·on this campus, with some of my best friends of the past . four years. Thus, a bar for those 21 and over; seniors. Jim, in no way disrespectful to a "1957 graduate, 1 would like to ask you if you like living here. Or rather do · you just like t() read your name in the "big time" lights? Whichever the case, all I can do is smile Jim. For, as you said, "Let the whining begin ... " Welcome back. 
SHAWN NOLEN Penn High School C~ of 199.3 Senior o.a:;campus 


GARRY TRUDEAU
• DooNESBURV 
• QuOTE OF THE DAY 


........---~_..---~~---~----~--~ -~--. --~ ------~-------~-~~---­
;ACCENT
page 8 Tuesday. September 24, 1996 
llirr®~ilrnf! ~Ib® 1 [il~ ®lk~®lb®rrffa 

By MELANIE WATERS ple in lederhosen!" LaFleur commented. "It's nice to show band based in Fort Wayne that performs at stam-r Assistant Accent Editor do something different." Oktoberfests all around the midwest. And while some floor Lederhosen, by the way, is traditional German attire. students valiantly tried to polka, most of them were floate• Many D.A.N.K. members and volunteers were decked outdanced by polka pros For out in authentic clothing, with several items many years their parti When it comes to celebrating Oktoberfest in also available for sale. senior. accor Michiana, expect the wurst. In an effort to broaden their horizons Not to be out­Shoul The bratwurst, that is, as well as the sauerkraut, beyond Killian's and Bud Light, many stu-done, LaFleur spare the potato salad, and the crowning glory: the beer. dents were eager to try the festival's and other students rend: 
This past Saturday, Oktoberfest found its specially brewed German beers. enthusiastically led place home at the Mishawaka Brewing Company as Senior Dan Morrisey tried the the crowd in a rousing and d crowds of revelers enjoyed a full day of food, Oktoberfest "Bier" first. version of that traditional Ju11 drink and dancing. The celebration was "It's a little bitter, but not German classic, "The and sponsored by the South Bend chapter of strong like Guiness," Chicken Dance." Things really soph1 D.A.N.K., the German American Morrisey said. "Very full-bordered on frightening, though, also 5 National Congress (also known as bodied-it's excellent." when the Deutsch-Amerikamischer Colorado native National Kongress). LaFleur agreed, noting 
For a $5 admission fee, guests that "it tastes like a Fat could enjoy socializing and dancing Tire, a Colorado beer. from 4 p.m. to midnight. The Brewing Two thumbs up!" Company served up four beer varieties Foster said that the for the event, including their special Oktoberfest beer is brewed Oktoberfest brew. 20 oz. beers cost $3, while stronger than the Brewing the "small" 12 oz. size was $2. In addition, Company's other beers, and is authentic Bavarian bratwurst was available for modeled after the beer served at $3. The truly brave (and most likely single) piled the actual Oktoberfest in Munich. on generous helpings of sauerkraut and onions. "The Oktoberfest beer is definitely 
Although the Oktoberfest beer was the undisputed our best seller tonight," Foster said. "By crowd pleaser, three other brews delighted the tastes the end of the night, we'll probably have of Germans and non-Germans alike. . . sold about 300 gallons
Mishawaka Brewing Company co-owner Semor Jean me LaF.Ieur demonstrates her of it!" 
. . -mastery of ''The Chicken Dance" on the s · · Sh
John Foster als.o offered Mumch Light, Oktoberfest dance floor. e~uor Kevm. ay
Ankenbrock Weizen (a wheat blend) and was Impressed With the the house specialty, Vier Reiter, known to taste of Munich Light. its many Notre Dame fans as "Four Horsemen Ale." "It's more full-bodied than most American beers," he 
After a rousing victory by the Irish on Saturday, said. "Most of them taste like water, but this actually plenty of students decided to try their hand at being has a lot of flavor." German for a day as they sampled the sights and According to Foster, the Munich Light is a traditional tastes of Oktoberfest. Senior Jeannie LaFleur and fall brew. "Wheat brews are very popular this time of friends spent the year. We plan to keep it on the menu at $6 a pitcher." evening at a Megan Emerick, a senior at Saint Mary's, noted that slightly dif-the wheat brew of Ankenbrock was a pleasant sur­ferent set-prise. "It's light, but it's got some punch," she said. t i n g "It's actually kind of sweet!" t h a n While enjoying the Oktoberfest brew, senior Pat t h e McGinley still remained faithful to his Irish usual favorite, Four Horsemen Ale. "It's a Brewing c o I -Company staple. You can't go wrong," he said. I e g e For those who have yet to experience its unique week-flavor, McGinley offers this description. "It's kind e n d of like a lager, but not too bitter." scene. Shay and Emerick also tried their luck in the 
"I came bratwurst department, but steered clear of the for the sauerkraut. In comparison to concession stand brats, beer, and defi-Shay said, "This is a REAL brat. It's kind of mild, not nitely to watch peo-very spicy, but it's great." 
After feasting on brats, kraut, pretzels Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students join Michiana residents for a and beer, there was plenty of opportunity night of dancing and dining, complete with music from the Jay Fox to work off those calories with lively Bavarian show band. photos courtesy Melanie Waters dancing. Music for the festival was pro­
vided by the Jay Fox band, a Bavarian 

ByJASON HUGGINS Wide Web Correspondenr 

This weekend, two-hundred thousand fans will travel to South for college football's "social gathering" of the century. And the linf'on:nation you need to make this weekelld the greatest in Notre 
is nowavailable on the web.· · ·· 
Friday you will want to check out the Irish Sports (lrishSports.com), In addition to having detailed commentary the Notre Dame vs. Ohio State match-up. the Irish Sports has a very entertaining web site. It offers on-line trivia, con­puzzles, and picture highlights of the season. You can even electronic postcards ~th pictures <lf memorable Ir~h football 
1mc1me~nts to your friends. . 
An11th1~r good game preview is the "ND on NBC.. hol}lepage, at ""'''IIJ·''·""-comlsportslnotredamelindex.html). As part ofthe football Notre Dame~ NBC has a separate section dedicated to Fit!'htirtQ' Irish. Here you can find a large,. well-organized database intilmlation, which even include~sta,tistics fro,w lfish play, school days. •·.· ···· ·..·• ··· .• .. ·.·· .i . .... < 
Of cour$e, all this on,;,UM information .must bave · · Notre Dame Athletic Department and its omcal 
<~~ __ ._ site (liJU!U!.rld.eclUt-ndsi)~ Ymt ~it~ fmd millions ofcool facts 
about the team. the S:tadi\lm,-and tll,e amazing traditions. 
And if you've ever wanted to memorize the famous "Win one 
for the Gipper" speech, click here first. 
Some notable student sites are also worth web surf­
ing. J.J. Nocera has maintained a very respectable 
"Notre Dame Fpotball Homepa$e" 
(www.nd. edu/ -jnocera/ndjb. html) for th~ 
last few years, and has tons of out!>tWtd~ 
ing commentary on the team's future 
outlook. Also, loqk here for more Irish 
football related web sites not mentioned . 
in this article. · 
The<most well-rounded studentMcreated 
Ne>tr~ Dame football web site has t9 ~e 'fom 
SchUCit's· "Irish Recruiting Jonrnl.J.l" 
(www~nd. edu/~tschlidtlrecruiting.html} 
Th~ site's breadth of coverage is truly one-of­
a-kind. Tom has even included an on-line mes-~... 
board so· all can to the 
J:USt~US~11QU·. Of all Tom 
pre-game broadcast will be in, 
N 
the g1 Satun 
watchi~ 
on yourj 
ous matte For the c ly can and Ci 
out Du 
GOV• 
{~~ JU~ 
thi 
check! ( w w! 
............~di~·shes, 
"Reisman Dessert. recipe, you have a Theatre television or book. 
Tuesday, September 24, 1996 




.'outh Bend this Saturday .ow that you know everything about 
•tme, it's time to party. Tailgating Jay morning is almost as fun as g the game itself. What you include 
re-garne menu, however, is a seri­
fficial rules on what you supposed­m not do at a tailgate party, check .ac on-line through Student rnment's homepage 
t1U1•rtd. edu/-studegovldulac. html), 
1t in case you haven't already burnt e print version. l'or the best Tailgate Recipes, out "SportsFever's Recipe Contest" 
. sportsfever. com/ cipe.html). llere you can lind great s the uHometown Hero" or the f you submit your own favorite ce of winning a 27" HCA Home official SportsFever tailgate cook­
---------------------------------------------------------------~----------------------_j 
;ACCENT 
page 9 

Princess Therese· von Sachsen-Hildburghausen (say that 10 times fast). Over the years, it evolved into a fes­tival featuring horse racing, agri­cultural skills and markmanship. The city of Munich took over the festival in 1819, and added hot air ballooning, fireworks and gymnastics displays. By the turn of the century, beer garden tents began to proliferate at the festival. With beer as the main attraction, the Munich Oktoberfest is now a 16 day event that always ends on the first Sunday in October. Hence, the term "Oktoberfest" even though the celebration starts in September. Michiana's own Oktoberfest, co-sponsored by D.A.N.K., hosted an estimated 2,500 visi­tors. Foster attributes much of the success to the cooperative weather and the joyous upset by the Fightin' Irish. "Thank God you won," Foster said. "I think the crowds have 
Aside from D.A.N.K volunteers sell authentic German been great because of that." the. decided Iy r,nerchandise while S![l1ultanelously doi~g Because of the success of 
1. at1n music, The Chicken Dance at Oktoberfest th1s both the event and the Brewing 
Company's special brews, 
Foster is eager to turn Oktoberfest into an annual event and hopes that even more students will become German for a day come next September. "We'll definitely do it again next year," Foster said. "It was absolutely wonderfuL" All of the proceeds from the event go to D.A.N.K. and are used to help promote the German cul­ture and language in the Michiana area. The South Bend chapter was founded in 1970, and is one of 60 chapters in the country. Total nationwide mem­bership exceeds 52 million people, all working to represent German-American interests. 
wedding celeb~ation Senior Dan Morrisey buys a glass of the Mishawaka Brewing for the crown pnnce of Company's speciai"Oktoberfest Bier''. Bavaria, Ludwig I, and 

es of the Century 
. Com? Saturd~y afternoon, of course, going to the game will be mcredtble. Nothmg on the web can replace the thrill of actually being in Notre Dame stadium. If you are one of the unfortunate souls with­out a ticket (unless, of course, you sold it and are now very fortunate) feel free to check out SportsLine USA (infoman2.sportsline.com). 
Here you can find up-to-the minute pictures and updates as they are posted by the Associated Press. While you're at it, check out the Stadium Cam (www.nd.edu/-jeremylstadium). 
Sunday afternoon, don't forget to download your own personal copy of the AP poll to put up outside your dorm room bulletin board. You can download them from any of the previously mentioned football web sites. 
The last thing most people will be doing this weekend is going to the computer lab to check these sites out on the Internet. Nonetheless, they are fun to check out, especially while taking a much-deserved study break from doing your E.G. 120 homework. See you at the game! 
Jason is a junior MIS major from Thousand Oaks. CA. You can B· mail him at Jason.R.Huggins.3@nd.edu. but fte recommends that you wait until after the game this weekend. 
• MEotCAl MINUTE 
Get a little closer... 
but beware the 
horrors of halitosis 
By LARRY WARD 
Medical Minute Correspondent 
We've all be in those situations in which we are close to some­one that we have had a burning desire for. Normally, It starts out with an innocent discussion about the test we had taken earlier in the day or about the ten page paper due tomorrow that we hadn't ~tarted to write yet. Then all of a sudden a light bulb flashes on m our head. Immediately, we begin to think, "Oh my God. how does my breath smell?" 
We then begin to think about what culinary delight we had just eaten in the dining hall and wonder if it was capable of leaving a foul odor in our mouths. Next, we wish that a set of those gor· geous Doublemint gum twins would come rushing by and offer us 'ust one stick of gum. 
Frantically, we will sometimes check our backpacks to see if we have any candy or gum to disguise the bad breath that we may or may not have. Soon the conversation ends and the person leaves and we still wonder if an unpleasant odor had been permeating from our mouth. 
Relax. The situation really is not that bad. After all, everyone suffers with occasional bouts of bad breath, medically known as halitosis. No doubt everybody wants to always have kissing sweet breath. We all fall victims to those advertisements that encour­age us to buy a particular brand of bubble gum or toothpaste so that our breath worries will be relieved forever. In fact, the mul­timillion dollar advertisements directed at halitosis go as far as having Telly Savalis instruct us to buy a bottle of swallowable pills that supposedly work magic in our stomach to cure bad breath for hours or days. 
You may be asking yourself, "Geez, I wonder what exactly caus· es foul breath odors?" The maJor cause of bad breath is the bac­terial decomposition of food and other debris around our teeth. These particles tend to invade our mouths and hang around our gumlines and enter our teeth. The end result is an odor which often tends to be offensive to many people around us. 
Other cases of bad breath tend to be caused by pockets of infec· tion in our mouth caused by diseases of the mouth such as peri­odontis. Periodontis is a disease in which plaque-filled pockets are formed between the teeth and gums resulting in inflammation of the gums. In turn, this gum Inflammation enlarges the pockets of plaque and eventually allow even more plaque to assault the mouth. 
A dry mouth also tends to be a direct cause of foul mouth odors. A dry mouth, which is often caused by sleep and smoking, allows dead cells of skin to accumulate on the tongue, gums, and cheeks. These dead cells undergo bacterial decomposition In our mouths leaving behind some nasty dragon breath. ' 
Obviously, some foods also are major causes of halitosis. Foods with volatile oils and with strong distinctive odors. such as garlic and onion, tend to be the most common offenders. 
After such foods are digested in our stomach and small intes­tine, the volatile substances In them are absorbed into our blood­stream. Then, the substances are carried off to the lungs and once again dragon breath is exhaled. (Beware this Friday and Saturday night though because alcohol behaves in the exact same fashion in our systems.) 
More serious cases of bad breath are possibl~. These cases tend to be caused by serious physiological malfunctions. One example is the bad breath caused by lung disease. In such cases, chronic lung infections, such as bronchiectasis, or lung abscess occur. Usually, much sputum Is produced and bad breath ensues. 
Bad breath can also result from impaired motility of the stom­ach. Bad breath can result from fermentation of the contents o the stomach. Furthermore, esophageal reflux, more commonly referred to as heartburn, and belching also cause halitosis . 
Finally, kidney failure can cause a urine like breath odor and liver failure tends to result in a fishy smell exiting from our mouths. Moreover, acetone, common in the systems of diabetics often results in a fruity but unpleasant odor. ' 
If your bad breath is being caused by lung disease, liver failure or kidney failure, relax, there is a treatment for you too. Simply visit your physician and he will be able to assist you. 
Finally, the next time you are near the person for whom you have a secret crush, remember that they, too, are just as likely to be suffering from bad breath! 
Larry is a junior Science Pre-Professional maJor. He is always t'1(ing to think ofcreative topics to discuss in the weekly Medical Mznute. He would be thrilled if people would email him sugges­tions at Lawrence.A. Ward.25@nd.edu. 
• 
------~­

,..--------------------------------------­
page 10 The Observer • SPORTS Tuesday, September 24, 1996 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
Classifieds 

Need a place to stay on football  sold OSU Was AF Pitt Rut stu  $$$$$  2Wash GA's  Need 4 Air Force Tix  
NOTICES  weekends?  tix2775931  Need 2 GA OSU tix. Rich Alum 847-473-6511  Best Offer. 1-612-427-3444  Call Frank Walters 18002439683  
Furnished apartment for short term  I need 2 Pitt tickets.  lv. message  Leave name and # -will pay top $.  
Marketing Club Meeting  rent. Full kitchen, living room, two  Call Kyle @ 4-1957.  HAVE: 2 Pitt GA's, 2 Air Force  
Wednesday at 6:00 P.M.  bedrooms, sleeps 4+. Call287­ For Sale: 2 OSU GA's  GA's. NEED: 2 Wash. GA's or Stu  I NEED 1 Wash. student ticket.  
Lower Lounge of COBA  4876.  Need 2 OSU GA's For Parents  Call Rob (312)528-3542  tix. Call (610)530-0156  PLEASE call Amber at x4292.  
Questions: 1-9330  Call Rob x1902  
ROOMS IN PRIVATE HOME FOR  Rich Alum Needs WA GA's  I have 2 Air Force & 2 Rutgers  
Entertainment Electronics Co.  ND-SMC EVENTS.  Need 2 GAs for WA. or OH. game  (206)621-3485  G.A.s-I need 4 PITT G.A.'s-Call  I need two GA's tor AIR FORCE  
3509 Grape Ad(@ Classic Stereo)  IDEAL FOR FOOTBALL WEEK­ Cristina@x2339  Shawn 215-676-6685  or PITT. CALL SEAN x-3311  
255-1172  ENDS.  SELLING Ohio State GA's  
Hrs: M-F 11-5 Sat. 10-2  VERY CLOSE TO CAMPUS.  I need 2 Ohio State tix, stud or GA  b/o X1049  Need 4 OSU stud tix  I need wash. stud. and/or ga's  
You break ~. we'll fix ill II  243..()658.  call Gina 273-5833  Call Doug@243-9224  call Nick 232-9944  
NEED 2 or 3 GAs for WASHING­ 
THAT PRETTY PLACE, Bed and  I Bedroom APT; clean, private bath;  WANTED  TON  1 OSU GA for sale  OSU GA for sale -Best offer  
Breakfast Inn has space available  entrance 3.5 miles from campus. 6  2 GAs for Air Force  Call Ed 243-9058  Call Mike@243-9224  Call 273-8384  
for football wknds. 5 Rooms with  or 12 month leases only. Call after  Carrie x2344  
private baths, $70 -$90,  5p.m. 232-0355  ••••••••NEED OSU STD TIX  FOR SALE  Need 1 Washington student  
Middlebury, 30 miles from campus.  Seeking tickets for OHIO St.,  CALL FRED 3744•••••••••  1 OSU GA, best offer  ticket. Please help!  
Toll Road, Exit #107, 1-800-418-9487  FOR SALE  WASHINGTON, PITT. Call Greg 219-273-1007  Call Aaron 634-2058  Call Diana @ 243-9432 .  
FOR SALE: 4 OSU student tix  Need 1 OSU ticket  Selling ND TIX, call271-9549  
ILOST & FOUND I  COUCH & DORM REFRIG.272­6306  TIX 2 SELL Call Bing X2230  call Jenny @ 687-8435  Student or GA Please call Darryl @x4264  3 to 5 OSU tickets FOR SALE.  
Call Kyle at 4-2133  
Lost Purdue weekend: light blue  '87 Mazda 323, Air,  NEEDED: One Wash. GA or con­ I have OSU GA. Brett 232-7718  G.A.'s FOR SALE  with your best offer.  
rosary w/ silver cross. 20$ reward.  Automatic, 90k, Blue  verted S'rUDENT tix. Will pay$$$  NDvs. OSU  
x-2081  Great Condition  Kristin 4838  2 WASH GA's 4 SALE -b/o  call 634-1708  I have 2 extra ND/OSU tix, taking  
Call John 631-6414  CALLx2005  best offer by Friday noon.  
·····LosT······  FOR SALE  Will trade one Wash.,Air Force, or Rutgers GA for one OSU. 277­ Need OSU stud. or GA tix. Call  FOR SALE 1 OSU STU TICKET  Call Phat Matt x1213  
I lost a Corona keychain/bottle opener (with three keys) on it over  1 OSU GA call X1276 b/o  2510.  Scott at 633-4855  CALL 4-1881 b/o  PERSONAL  
the Purdue weekend. If you found  Will trade 2 Air Force or Rutgers  One GA OSU FOR SALE-CALL  KATE NEEDS 2 WASH. TIX!  
it, please call Paul at 634-1519.  1 STUD. TICKET w/ 10  GAs for One OSU.277-2510.  4-1146  CALL ANYTIME -284-5456  FAX IT FASTIII  
REWARD.  B/0 by Thurs. 634-1394  Sending & Receiving  
Selling OHIO STATE TIXI  NOTRE DAME GA'S WANTED  1 OSU GA FOR SALE B/0  at  
WANTED  Laptop for Sale! 486 with Microsoft Office.  6 GAs CHEAP! Call Sandra x4927  ALL GAMES HOME AND AWAY  NOTENDZONE CALL DAVE 4-4040  THE COPY SHOP LaFortune Student Center  
Call 273-6071  232-0058  Our Fax# (219) 631-FAX1  
95' GRADS NEED 5 WASHING­ OHIO STATE TIX!  24 HAS.  OSU GA for sale to highest bid.  FAX IT FASTIII  
TON TIXI CALL KRISTIN 273­6136.  TICKETS  Selling GAs CHEAP! Call Sandra x4927  BUY -SELL -TRADE TICKET-MART, INC.  284-4163  SYNCHRONIZED SWIMMING­ 
NO Parents need tickets for OSU  Anyone interested please come  
SYNCHRONIZED SWIMMING­ I need Washington GA's for my  Help! I need 7 GA/STU tix for  WANTED: NOTRE DAME GA'S  game! Please call (630)810-0710  September 30th tor a meeting at  
Anyone interested in coaching the  parents. Call Beth at x4265  PITT.Contact Justin @x1871  ANY/ALL GAMES. PLEASE CALL  the Rock at 8 p.m.  
synchronized swimming team,  232-0061.  Need 1 WASH stud ticket  
please contact Beth at x2725. Must  I need 2 stud tickets for Air Force.  Need 3(or2) PITT TIX(Stu/GA)  will trade my OSU ticket or pay $  This sidewalk ain't for fancy walkin'.  
have experience, enthusiasm and  Call Tara at x4673.  Will Trade 2 AF TIX &/or Pay$  $$$$$$  Melissa x1339  It's for nonnal walkin'.  
be willing to volunteer time and  Call4-1628  I NEED GA OR FACULTY TIXS  
effort.  NOTRE DAME GA'S WANTED  ALL HOME GAMES.  FOR SALE:  0 DISCOVER THE COPY SHOP 0  
ALL GAMES HOME  272-6551  1 GA FOR OHIO STATE &  in the LaFortune Student Center  
NATIONAL PARKS HIRING­ AND AWAY  DESPERATE for 3 Wash tix. GA or  1 GA FOR WASHINGTON.  Mon. 7:30am -Midnight  
Positions are now availalbe at  232-0058  stud tix turned into GA thru  CALL 1-810-355-9140 &  Tues. 7:30am -Midnight  
National Parks, Forests & Wildlife  24 HAS.  exchange. Offering handsome  N.D. FOOTBALL GA TIX  LEAVE MESSAGE. I WILL CALL  Wed. 7:30am -Midnight  
Preserves. Excellent benefits +  BUY -SELL -TRADE  reward. Call Ryan @ 4-3592.  BOUGHT & SOLD  YOU BACK.  Thur. 7:30am -Midnight  
bonuses! Call: 1-206-971-3620  TICKET-MART, INC.  232-2378-A.M.  Fri. 7:30am -7:00pm  
extN55848  Need lots of Washington tix-GA or  288-2726-P.M.  4 OSU GAs 4 SALE. x0849  Sat. Noon -6:00pm  
WANTED: NOTRE DAME GA'S  student. Call Meghan @232-7839.  Sun. Noon -Midnight  
ALASKA SUMMER EMPLOYMENT  ANY/All GAMES. PLEASE CALL  n. d. tickets for sale  (closed home football Saturdays)  
-Students Needed! Fishing  232-0061.  I I 2 OSU GAs FOR SALE I I  271 1635  KISS TICKETS  
Industry. Earn up to $3,000­ Call4-1473 w/your offer  Market Square INDY Oct 15th  DO YOU WANT TO DANCE THE  
$6,000+ per month. Room and  I NEED FOOTBALL GA'SI  $NEED OSU, WASH, & AF TIX  Row 23 FLOOR 291-4816  TANGO LIKE IN SCENT OF A  
Board! Transportation! Male or  WILL SEAT ANY OFFER!  -Wanted OSU Student Tix-­ 216-995-1902 5-7 PM EDT M-F  WOMAN? COME TO  
Female. No experience necessary.  CALL 243-1287  Who wants to sit in GA anyway?  216-650-5264 7-9 PM EDT M-F ·  Need OSU GA tix. 259-2207  BALLROOM DANCE TONIGHT  
Call (206)971-3510 extA55847  Just supply the ticket and I'll worry  7:00-9:00 PM IN STEPAN CEN­ 
JUNIOR PARENT WEEKEND  about the rest. $$$$  NO ALUM NEEDS  Will trade two GA Washington tick­ TER. COME ONE COME ALLI  
EASTERN EUROPE JOBS­ RUTGERS TICKETS AVAILABLE  Call 4-3005 and ask for Player  OSU/WASH/AF/RUT/PITT TIX  ets for two GA Ohio State tickets.  
Teach basic conversational English  PLEASE CALL 232-0058  CALL MIKE 212-372-7214  Call (919)286-8037(w) or  "AND I LOVE. ..TO DANCE"  
in Prague, Budapest, or Krakow. No  (919)688-7852(h).  -BEN VOIGHT  
teaching certificate or European  WANTED 2 GAs ND VS OHIO S  2 OSU GA Tix 4-Sale  NEED 2-4 GA TIX  
languages required. Inexpensive  CALL COLLECT 215-355-7131  Call272-5138  ALL HOME GAMES.  Need$$$  Help! I need a senior bar parking  
Room & Board + other benefits. For  RON  Leave offer  CALL 276-201 0/288-2877 AFT 5  Will paycash4  pass tor OSU. Will trade JACC  
info. call:  ND-OSUtix  pass plus money. Please call  
(206)971-3680 ext.K55842  ND Alum needs Ohio St. Tix (GAs).  FOR SALE  Need Ohio State tickets.  Call Chad@  Allison at 243-9038.  
Call (313)420-1208 or (212)250­ 20SU Tix  Call anytime. 302-832-7786  1-800-Trade-it ext. 117  
HUGE NO FAN DESPERATE FOR  6513  b/o x0868  
5 GAs FOR RUTGERS. CALL PAT  NO DAD NEEDS TWO (2) GAs  For ND fan since 1943, seeing a  EARN MONEY!IIII  
(813)360-2243.  GA TICKETS WANTED GA  TRADE 4 PITT GA'S & $ FOR  FOR PURDUE, OHIO STATE AND  game in South Bend is as close to  Please help me with my senior  
ONLY A LOCAL BUSINESS  OSU TIX MATT 282-4213.  WASHINGTON. CALL LARRY  heaven as I'm gonna come! Need 2  comprehensive. I need to interview  
Hundereds of Students Are Earning  WOULD LIKE TO PURCHASE  (219)422-6088  to 5 tix for any home game to fulfill  10 people who grew up in single  
Free Spring Break Trips & Money!  2 OR 4 SEASON TICKETS OR  2 Stud OSU TIX  my dream. Call Ron COLLECT at  parent homes between the ages of  
Sell 8 Trips & Go Freel Bahamas  INDIVIDUAL GAMES  x2626 or x2597  Alum needs 2-4 AIR FORCE Tix for  (612)559-4287...  5 and 15. A reward for this confi­ 
Cruise $279, Cancun & Jamaica  ;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;277-1659  Family  and bless you I  dential interview will be granted.  
$399, Panama City/Daytona $1191  I need 2 Air Force GA's. Will pay  612-742-7638 Collect  Please, call Caroline at 243-9264  
www.springbreaktravel.com  FOR SALE RUTGER TICKETS  well. Call Becky at X3792.  Need 2 Air F. GA's  
1-800-678-6386  GA. Rl)TGERS "CHEAP"............ .  Wanted: 2 or more GAs @ face $  Amy 616-473-5825  C­ 
RUTGERS 272-7233 RUTGERS ... .  need 5 WASH ga's or stud tix $$$  for home games. 412/352-2219  Who knew you could do that with  
SPRING BREAK  x2646  Need 2 Ohio State tickets. Will  leaves!  
Cancun, Mazatlan From $399  ..Need Air Force TICKETS! I"*  trade 2 Wash. tickets and/or $.  
Lowest price guaranteed\  Please Call Kelly @ 4x2685  FOR SALE: 1 OSU stud. ticket  TICKETS DESPERATELY NEED­ leave message 800-582-3212  Gio,  
Sell15 trips and travel free+ cashl  Call Steve with b.o. @ 232-7324  ED -PLEASE HELP!II  X2465  I will marry you I swear it, just wait  
Call Sunbreaks 1-800-446-8355  Need 1 OSU ticket  for me. Amore per sempre.  
Call Greg at 2318  UW SA NEEDED Call Zane @  Family wants to come to a game for  Anneliese Hahn has one OSU ticket  Paradise awaits us.  
2938  my senior year. Please help  for sale  Crazy Love,  
LARGE REAL ESTATE CO NR.  SELLING 1 Ohio State GA b/o  Would like 2-6 tickets for any home  277-2518  Jon  
CAMPUS IS SEEKING RELIABLE  4..0931.  Need 2 OSU GA's  game. Please call Brian at287­ 
PERSON FOR PART-TIME  Ted X3439  4876. Thank you.  OHIO STATE ticket for sale.  Hey Gorgeous,  
RECEPTIONIST POSITION.  NEED TIX-HOME GAMES  ································  call erin at x2721.  This time there's one in here for  
HOURS ARE  312-951-5008  Need 1 Ohio St. student ticket.  you I  
5 TO 7PM M-F, 9 TO 1PM SAT.  Please call 243-9357  2 OSU GAs for sale  I love youl  
PHONE EXP A MUST.  BUYING N.D. FOOTBALL TICK­ $$ Please Helpll $$  NOT conv. stud. tix  me  
$7/HOUR 243-9555  ETS, PUBLIC AND FACULTY  Need 3 Washington tix bad  94 NO Alum Needs  Greg @ 634-1770  
SEATS CALL 1-800-255-2850  please call Nate at 271-1846  1 or 2 Stud or GA tix to  Sue  
Are you interested in an internship  Ohio St and Wash­ POTATO HOUSE NEEDS OSU  Way to try to bum down the kitchen  
in public relations and fundraising?  TICKETS WANTED-Will pay pre­ •• 2 Ohio St. GA's ••  Call Joanne- TIX...PLEASEIII Paul 243-9403  
Send cover letter and resume to  mium price for 4 tickets for the  Call: Marc x1930 or Joey x1942  516-742-1923 (night)  Cathy  
Michelle Fean Regional Director of  NO/Ohio State game on Sat. 28th.  or 212-415-3009 (day)  IIIOSU GA GIVEAWAY CON­ Thanks for changing that message!  
the American Diabetes Assoc. at  No student tickets please.  2 OSU GAs FOR SALE  TEST!!!!  
I I I 1­ 115 Lafayette Blvd. Suite 501 South Bend, IN 46601. This position is 15­20hrs a week & intern has the choice of being paid or earning credit. Please send resumes by  "Dynamite" seats only. Call Bill/Anna at 800-457-0486. Grad Non-Degree Student needs GA tickets to any games.  Call 4-2335 w/ bo $$$$$$$$$$$$$ Up to 2 OSU tickets for sale  Need GA's for Air Force, Pitt & Rutgers. Call Jay @287-3736 WANTED: Washington tickets. stu­dent or GA. Call Nathan at 4-2031  4 OSU GA'S TO WINNER. Tell us why you need tix-be cre­ativell Best story wins. Call219 273 9747 anytime and ask forBoBo.  Happy Birthday, Brian! 0­Here is to cleaning up at four in the morning and to pretzels with extra  
Oct. 15, 1996.  Call Val at 243-0798.  to the highest  salr.  
bidder.  I need 6 OSU tickets  SELLING: 1 O.S. STUD. TICK  
1  Looking for ride to BALTIMORE for  BUYING G.A.'S FOOTBALL  Senior student  Will pay high prices or  CALL RYAN 234-1078  When it rains it pours.  
FALL BREAK. will help pay  312.404.4903  tickets.  will trade BULLS tickets!  
for gas. call erin at x2721.  Call Bryan  Call Jason@ x1225  NEED 2 WASH. GA's FOR PAR­ ROAD CLOSED AHEAD  
NEED 2 OHIO ST. GA OR STU­ 273-2812  ENTS!  
DENT 271-9278  $$$$$$$$$$$$$  BAND PARENTS!!  CALL X1932  Jen,  
FOR RENT  Need Ohio State tix. Willing to buy  DESPERATELY SEEKING 4 OSU  need 4 GA Air Force call collect  NEED: 4 GA'S for Air Force for my  Grrrrr ....... T  
or trade. Call Matt 271-3683  TICKETS. CALL KEVIN AT X1913  (414) 208-1632  FAMILY. Chris x0788  belle, chips are more fun than  
WALK TO CAMPUS  socializing  
2-3-4-5 BEDROOM HOMES  Need Ohio St. GA's. Buy or trade  Need OSU stud tix email Mark @  N.D. Football Tix-Buy/Sell  WANTED: NO/WASH GA'S  
232-2595  Matt -271-3683  wach@ voicenet.com  674-7645  CALL MIKE AT 4-1615  olives, olives, olives  

• COLLEGE fOOTBAll 
Nebraska joins the fallen favorites of the Big 12 
By MARK BABINECK 
Associated Press Writer 
Suddenly, Nebraska is just part of the pack, joining the Big 12 heap of supposed league fa­vorites that couldn't get through September without los­ing a non-conference game. 
The Cornhuskers on Saturday joined Colorado, Texas and Texas A&M in the Joss column, and might have given the league's fringe powers an extra boost in the process. 
"I imagine they feel pretty good at Kansas, Kansas State and Baylor right now," Texas Tech coach Spike Dykes said Monday, pointing to confer­ence's remaining schools with a perfect league record. 
"I felt from the onset that this was maybe a league that had one dominant team in Nebraska, then I felt like you could throw a hat over the rest of them. 
Nebraska's 19-0 loss Saturday night to Arizona State might do some good for other teams' psyches, but the fact remains that the Cornhuskers, along with favorites Colorado and Texas A&M, have yet to play a conference game. Texas, which was clipped 27-24 by Notre Dame on Saturday, is 1-0 thanks to an opening day rout of Missouri. 
Colorado visits A&M this weekend, ensuring one will begin life in the Big 12 at 0-1, which will further the hopes of the league's middle class. 
"I guess anybody would by lying if they didn't say they were surprised there were only three teams at this stage that hadn't lost a game," Baylor's Chuck Reedy said during a coaches' conference call Monday. "The fact that those teams have been beaten doesn't change our approach." 
Baylor has vaulted to 3-0 against a weak intersectional schedule with a young team dotted with some of the nation's most desirable talent. The Bears have the weekend off be­fore their first Big 12 game at Texas Tech (1-2, 1-1). 
No. 16 Kansas State and No. 20 Kansas might gain inspira­tion from then-No. 19 Arizona State's 19-0 pasting of the Cornhuskers when conference play rolls around. 
Then again, they might not. 
"Nebraska made some mis­takes in that game that most of us who face them year-in and year-out don't see," Kansas coach Glen Mason said, stop­ping short of calling the loss a fluke. 
Nebraska remains the Big 12's top-ranked team at No. 8, followed by Texas, which fell from sixth to 13th. Each is still the favorite to reach the league's title game in December. 
"We are exactly where Tennessee and Colorado are," Longhorns coach John Mackovic said of other one-loss powers. "We have to win and bounce back. We have to work our way back into the picture, and we can do that." 
Nebraska coach Tom Osborne, too, refused to count the Big 12, and his team by association, out of anything. 
"I think that Nebraska is going to bounce back," said Oklahoma State coach Bob Simmons, whose team has 


jumped to a 3-1 start. "I know coach Osborne is going to find a way to get that team back on track. They really hadn't been beaten in a long time ... But it does open the door." 




Phil Donahue, '57 
"-. 

"The media today and tomorrow" 
Thursday, September 26, 7:30PM in the Hesburgh Auditorium Co. Sponsored by: NOTRE DAME 
The Department of American Studies ~
G 

The Department-of Communication and Theatre~-"~~~----­
Student Alumni Relations Group 
student Alumni RELATioNs GRour 
All students and faculty are welcome! 
• SPORTS BRIEFS 
Bowling Club -All inter· ested in the Bowling Club, a general information meeting will be held on Monday, September 30 at 6 pm in the Montgomery Theater in Lafortune. If interested and unable to attend, call Jason at 4-1883 with questions. 
Celebrate a friend's birthday with a special Observer ad. 
The Observer

The Finance Club 
is now hiring
invites you to hear about 
a Saint Mary's Sports Editor.
"Career Opportunities in Consulting" 
Interest in sports preferred. 

presented by 
Call Caroline Blum at 63 7-4540 if interested. 

ARTHUR ANDERSEN 
http://www.arthurandersen.com 

' 
Wednesday, September 25, 1996 
ANGERS, FRANCE 
1997-98 Academic Year

5:00-6:30 p.m. 
'~ Day in the Life ofan Angevin" 

-
With 
Professor Paul McDowell

Center for Continuing Education (CCE), Room 112 
Tuesday, September 24, 1996 7:30pm

Pizza and Refreshments Served 
Room 118 DeBartolo 
Applications will be available

Casual Attire 
ALL ARE WELCOME! 

!!3&t:-on/nt;..JkNk~l~ ?P(~;,;: Ml ~Ntdl/. a-rt..JU'<'? 
1 
j 
I I I 
-~---~--~-------------~--~~----------­
page 12 The Observer • SPORTS Tuesday, September 24, 1996
1
~ ~ 
I 
Keenan defense 
I 
I 
stomps Stanford 
By CHARLEY GATES Spons Writer 
Combining big plays with a stifling defense, the Keenan Knights stormed to a 21-3 vic· tory over the Stanford Studs in the opening game of the 1996 interhall season. 
The game began favorably for the Knights. On fourth and one from the 44-yard 

Gamecocks couldn't convert a fourth-and-one at midfield. The Crime took over, and Lupo threw deep for a 40­yard completion to give the Crime first and goal from the Gamecocks' 9-yard line. Two plays later Lupo ran it in from the 2-yard line. Concerning his two touchdown runs, Lupo stated, "It was just great blocking and play calling. I 
line, Keenan running got those big guys in back Mike Host front of me; I have took a pitch the easy part." around left end The two-point and raced fifty­conversion failed, six yards for a however. and the touchdown. Said Crime settled for a 
Soccer 
continued from page 16 

The team was slightly troubled about play­ing on the turf at St. John's. "It took us about twenty minutes to settle down, so it did give us a little trouble," said Petrucelli about his team's performance. 
After her big performance against St. John's, Gerardo was named the Big East Offensive Player of the Week. She totaled three goals and an assist this weekend. 
Also receiving honors this week was Sobrero, who was named Big East Defensive Player of the Week. She had an assist this weekend in the Connecticut game. Sobrero aided in the shutout against St. John's and helped hold the Huskies to only eight shots. 
Irish 
continued from page 16 
hard work pays off." 
Kelly Peterson 13th fmished the course in 18:19 followed closely by Erin Lubey in fifteenth in 18:23 as Janel Kiley rounded out the top seven. 
"All in all I was very pleased with their perfor­mance," said Connelly "We could of put our junior varsity team in the varsity race and finished fifth." 
Freshman Denise Beakula led the Irish's second team squad followed by Carolyn Long and Ann Yates as they went on to sweep the top eight spots. 
"We still have a couple of kids injured that haven't ran yet and if you would of told me we would be running as well as we are today without them I probably wouldn't believe it," said Connelly. 


DARDEN Allen MCWalters x3331 SWANSON Susan Grondin x4268 EGGLESTON Kathleen Flynn x4355 3:45-4:45 NORTHEAST Nicole Varneri x4039 
or Jennifer Jablonski x3552 4:30-5:00 lASALLE Pete DiLella 287-5277 
Thn<Willru~m~illruw 
1:00-2:00 KENNEDY Katherine Murray 284-4435 3:00. 4:00 ST.JUDE Sarah Magness 284-5217 

-.~. GW SEMESTER IN WASHINGTON 
Graduate School of Political Management The George Washington University 
Spring 1997 
An Intensive Program in Political Management for Qualified Undergraduates 
* 
Learn from Washington, DC's political pv-c{e??io()£\17 

* 
\=Yoduce TV & Radio ads, construct opinion polls, stage media events, conduct field research, and more 

* 
Make co()o'1ecr\C>()7 to launch your career 

* 
Attend "ir'1?idev-" special events 


APPLICATION DEADLINE: OCTOBER 31 , 1 996 
For more information, and to receive an application, contact: (800) 367-4776, {202) 994-6000, or http://www.gwu.edu/-gspm. 
Look for our brochure at your school's Career Center or Political Science Department. 
GW is an equal opportunity/affirmative action institution. 
Host of the run, "As soon as I got around the corner, no one was there and I was gone." 
The Knight defense, led by Jon Iannacone, stole the show. They sacked Studs quarterback Mike Rule four times and forced six turnovers, including four· interceptions. Following a bungled punt by the Knights, Stanford took over at the Knights' ten-yard line. They had to settle for a field goal, however, as the Knight defense held. Keenan carried a 7-3 edge into the half. 
On the opening series of the second half, the Knights inter­cepted an errant Rule pass and returned it to the Studs' 20-yard line. A bizarre play ensued. Knights' quarterback Chad Chevalier threw an interception near the goal line, but Studs' defensive back fumbled the ball during the return and Keenan recovered at the 5-yard line. Running back Mike Host punched it in on the next play for his sec­ond touchdown of the day. 
In the fourth quarter, fol­lowing another interception by the Knights at Stanford's 15-yard line, quarterback Chevalier tossed a twenty­yard touchdown pass to close out the scoring. 
Off-Campus 19, Flanner 0 
In the second game of the afternoon, the Off-campus Crime utilized a potent ground attack to punish the Planner Gamecocks, 19-0. On the second possession of the game, the Crime took the ball at midfield and methodically worked its way down the field for a touchdown. The power running of tailback John Mele and the finesse running of option quarterback Scott Lupo accounted for most of the yardage. Lupo took an option left from five yards out for the score, but the Crime muffed the extra point. 
Later in the half, a tripping call on Off-campus gave Flanner the ball at the Crime's 35-yard line. But Crime defensive back John Goetz intercepted a Mike Diagler pass. Time in the half expired with Off-campus dri· ving, but they carried a slim 6-0 lead into halftime. 
In the second half, the 
12-0 lead. 
In the fourth 

quarter, with the 
Gamecocks deep in their own territory, the Crime sacked quarterback Diagler. who fumbled the football. The Crime defense pounced upon the loose ball. After a long completion from Lupo that put Off-campus inside the 10­yard line, tailback Mele pranced into the endzone, giving the Crime their final touchdown. 
Morrissey 21, Dillon 0 
Morrissey Manor utilized the outstanding play of tail­back/safety Mark Tate to demolish Dillon, 21-0. Neither side experienced much offensive success early, with the teams trading punts for the first three series. 
After a long Manor punt, the Big Red took over at their own 25-yard line. But a Manor player tipped a pass from quarterback Stefan Moliner, and Manor defense­man Brian Tillley intercepted the ball, giving Morrissey excellent field position. 
Said Tilley of the play, ''I'm always watching the ball. I saw the ball the whole way; in fact I was trying to tip it. and I just watched it all the way down into my hands." 
From the 12-yard line, Manor tailback Tate zoomed into the end zone for the first of his three touchdowns. After a botched snap on the PAT, the Manor holder turned the broken play into a 2-point conversion when he ran with the ball into the end zone. The half concluded with Morrissey up, 6-0. 
The Manor began quickly in the second half, as it took them only two plays to gain their second goal. Tate went up the middle, then cut left and exploded through the Big Red secondary for a 60-yard touchdown gallop. Manor led, 15-0. 
With the Big Red offense unable to move the ball con­sistently, the Manor took over at midfield. Behind the solid running o( fullback Tilley and Tate, the Manor marched down the field, with Tate scoring his third touchdown of the day from 20 yards out. The extra point failed, but the Manor still led, 21-0. 
~u•u.oc1••~~ looking 


new and used cars Gates Chevy World 
Call Greg Mitchem at 237-4000 for appointment 
Bring this ad in and receive 
$1000ff 
-~----­

--------~~----~-------­
Tuesday, September 24, 1996 The Observer· PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 13 



Finance Club 

areer Night 
ABN AMRO/LaSalle National Bank Andersen Consulting Arthur Andersen & Co. AT&T Bank of America Baxter Healthcare Boston Consulting Group ,/ /.,. Cambridge Technology Group ~ Cargill, Incorporated CIG N A C.W Coste . ;& 1\:s\soc. Dain Bosworth Dean Witter Rey-B~l · ago\Nl~D Ford Motor C<?JPpa . "~"''' . ··. \ GE Capital S~ti;ie ~'en~. 
. ,_.;_ General Reinsurance ~Orp\ ..•.D:JEOWw .s ~ KeycorP. • Merrill Lynch Mep;ill LYn .. J9~e,~~e . k~~ ·.""' 
Merrill Lynch Priv4te Cli;ent·>\Gro ·,.--·--·'"
0 
.... 

L.
Moosbrugger Marketi gJ~-~searclf!·~ · MUtual of Omaha NIPSCO .. rtnwestern Mutual Life Oak Brook Bank Olde Discount Stockbrokers PNC Bank Corp. Procter & Gamble Prudential Securities Staff Management The Summit Group 

page 14 
The Observer • SPORTS 
• MEN's CRoss CouNTRY 

Rexing, Altoff run off with top spots 
Tuesday, September 24, 1996 


By WILLY BAUER Sports Writer 

Continuing the dominating performance of last week, Notre Dame's men's cross-country team raced past the competition finishing six out of the top ten at the National Catholic Meet on the Notre Dame campus, last Friday. 
The Irish totaled 18 points, three points off its perfect score of 15 last week. Marquette, 64, and Lewis University, 94 points, rounded out the top three teams of the 26 that participated in the meet. 
"We ran exceptionally well," said coach Joe Piane. "It bodes well for the future. We have as good, if not better team that we had last year and we finished eighth at the NCAA's." 
Jason Hexing and Matt Althoff finished the race in a near photo-finish. Hexing ran the course, that traveled around the Notre Dame Golf Course, in 24:29, while Althoff finished two sec­onds off the pace. 
Derek Seiling finished the race in fourth, 16 seconds behind Hexing. Joe Dunlop and Ryan Maxwell, fifth and sixth respectively, rounded out the first six finishers of the race with a lone runner from Siena Heights breaking up the group. 
Scott Grace, a junior, finished the race in ninth place, the last Irish runner in the top 10. He ran his fastest time of his collegiate career at the meet, a time of 25:07. 
The Junior Varsity team also dominated the field. Nine of the first ten finishers were from the home team. Sophomore Tim Englehardt won the race. and would have finished in a respectable 18th place against varsity competi­tors. 
"We are deep," said a delighted Piane. "If our N team would have run in the varsity meet, they would have fmished fourth overall." 
The Irish will take this weekend off before hosting the Notre Dame Invitational, October 4. The team hoping to change the recent good for­tunes of the Irish is the Michigan Wolverines. 
"That will be our first big test," said Pian e. "Even though they finished behind us at the NCAA's last year, Michigan still has a solid pro­gram. Last week's meet was our easiest, this last one (Catholic Meet) was our second easiest, now comes the big tests." 
The Irish have three meets to prepare for the Big East Championships in Boston, Massachusetts. 
The Observer/Sarah O"Connor Senior Matt Altoff (187), senior Derek Seiling (200), sophomore Ryan Maxwell (196), and junior Jason Rexing (199) led the Irish to a sixth place finish at the National Catholic Invitational. 
Defense dominates 
lnterhall openers 

Featuring daily lunch specials created by ChefAlan Perry 

Lunch specials for September 23 -27 
Monday-Veal Parmigiana with Penne and Garlic Bread $3.95 
Tuesday -Vegetable and Black Bean Enchilada with Frijoles con Charro and Rice $3.95 
Wednesday-Tarragon Grilled Breast of Chicken with Mixed Greens and Fruit $3.95 
Thursday-Pork Tenderloin en Brochette with Potato and Green Onion Pancakes $4.95 
Friday-Grilled Swordfish with Cucumber Mint Salsa and Red Beans and Rice, served with a Vegetable $4.95 
Open Monday -Friday 

Serving breakfast from 7:00am -10:30 am and lunch from 11:00 am-2:00pm 
Located in the Hesburgh Center for International Studies on Notre Dame Avenue 
Daily specials are also listed in Gopher--To access information: Enter Gopher(Univ. of ND Information/Administrative Information( Food Services(Greenfields Specials 
By ADRIAN WILKERSON Sports Writer 
Once again, it is time to renew one of Notre Dame's unique athletic traditions. Judging by the rough and tumble defensive efforts shown by teams playing Sunday on Stepan Field south, they were lucky to have pads. 
Zahm 3, Fisher 0 
Both Fisher. the defending lH foot­ball champs, and 
Alumni team down to 
Zahm committed what would seem to be deadly turnovers in their own territory. Zahm converted a fumble by Fisher deep in their own territory into a second quarter field goal. Fisher, however. was stopped cold by an impenetrable Zahm defensive line after a Zahm interception. 
When asked what he believed to be Zahm's key to winning this low scoring bat­tle, Zahm coach Jerry Fitzpartick responded, "It was because of our tenacious defense and a group of kids who never said 'quit' and never said 'die'." 
Carroll 20, St. Edward's 0 
The winner of this game seemed to be the team who played stifling defense for all four quarters. Carroll did just that by shutting out St. Ed's 20-0. 

l 
Carroll used several long passes plays and converted on a blocked punt to come away 
I 
with the victory. On the defensive side of the ball, both teams played ex­ceptionally well. Outside of a shaky first quarter perfor­mance, St. Ed's defensive corps did not allow Carroll to come within scoring distance for the remaining three quar­ters. 
Alumni 6, O'Neill 0 
O'Neill Hall, composed mostly of players new to IH 
competition, took the 
the wire. However. 
several penalties
C and some miscues 
at key points in the 
game gave Alumni 
a nervous 6-0 victo­
ry. 
Alumni came 

rushing out of the gate 
with a quick score during the opening drive of the game. This would prove to be the only offensive production for either team for the duration of the game. Both defensive units stepped up their efforts to shut down the opposing offenses. 
A back and forth struggle ensued during the final, dra­matic quarter of the game. Late in the quarter, O'Neill re­covered a fumble in Alumni territory. Lack of experience almost ruined O'Neill's try for a storybook ending when they almost fum­bled the ball back to Alumni. However. in one of the most bizarre instances of officiat­ing, referee's called the rare "do-over" in football. Even a second chance to win this game fell short as the Alumni secondary picked off a last ditch O'Neill pass to hold on for the victory. 

----------------------------------------~~~~~--~~~=-------~-------------------------------------------­
MIXED MEDIA 

MOTHER GOOSE & GRIMM 

DILBERT 
MY BO.SS !5 to\AI\lNG T~E ENGINEE.P-5 COMPETE. IN ~N ,. IRON r-\~N" EVENT. 
1T'5 SUPPOSED TO IMPRO\JE TEAMWORK. 
_) 

CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 30 Furrow 32 T.L.C. givers 

1 Thrash 33 Bikini, e.g. 
4 It gives a lift at the circus 
3& "M'aidez," e.g. 9 Surrounded by 37 Algebra or trig 13 "--·-Carousel" 38 Fired, as a (1967 Hollies ranch hand? hit) 
42 Bridge 

14 Sea separating accomplish­Greece from ment Turkey 
43 Mouth, slangily 16 Yemen's capital 
44 Enticed 

11 Broadway's 45 Syr. neighbor
"The-­
46 Morse role onGame" Broadway16 Fired, as a 47 Med. school U.P.S. worker? 

course20 Residents: 49 Authority

Suffix 22 Poe poem 
51 Fired, as a 23 Fired. as a 
baseball salesclerk? 
player? 25 Capital of 
56 Batman and Bulgaria 

Robin, e.g. 29 Fairy tale villain 58 Pot starter 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 



Fl/1 P" T R 0 0 P 
[1 0 T A E Y D I E 
IR U S T V N A I 
~~J. I D L E lONE TINDER J I GG.E R. V 0 S 
E N R O[L S W A R S A W 
SNEAO 
.~

SEAT RAKED ATOR E R S E E V E L L I E G E 
-YEOM~N BE[TRAY OSS.DAN BRA[SSES HAPPEN,FEES A L 0 E 0 I R T Y ~A R R Y 
ROOT ELATE MIKE A N N E D E T E R P OIOIP 
JACK OHMAN YOUR HOROSCOPE 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY! IN THE NEXT YEAR OF YOUR LIFE: Business profits will rise sharply. Plan ahead and you may be able to take a dream vacation in December. Just remember, Mr. or Ms. Right could be living in your neighbor­hood. A chance encounter leads to a fabulous new relationship or job. Family ties deepen as 1997 begins. A disconcerting domestic situation will be resolved once and for all. You are more like a certain relative than you realize. Learn from this individual's experiences. 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: photographer Linda McCartney, comedian Phil Hart­man, singer Sheila MacRae, base­
MIKE PETERS 

ball player Rafael Palmeiro. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): A cash shortage or money dispute could catch you offguard. Do not panic. A realistic evaluation of the situation will help you recoup any losses. A romantic relationship could prove challenging. 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Mixed emotions are likely given your current status and responsibili­ties. Take time to evaluate your options. Consult experts if neces­sary, but trust your instincts, too. 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Follow your instincts in affairs of the heart. Defend a friend's honor if someone makes baseless accusa­tions. Business partnerships prove lucrative. 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): Be on your best behavior at work. Finish one task before starting another. A manipulative colleague may attempt 
SCOIT ADAMS 

l'M GL~D l TAKE THE 
a power play. Seek solitude if you
YES, YOU A.RE, 
want to work on a complex project. 
5TAlR.5 SOMETIMES 
TO TI-lE. UTE~T 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): You

IN5TEI\D OF USING THE. I :rusr 
will soon be placed in a position of
POT~\0 !5 
power. Use your new authority
E.LEVt:\10R. I'M IN 
WR.ENC.HE{)

A. PRETTY 
wisely and you will win widespread 
respect. Keep stashing away funds
PRETTY GOOD SHI\P£. 
A. MUSCLE..

GOOD 5HAPE.. 
) 
· JEANE DIXON 
for a dream vacation. 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Keep tabs on what is happening with your mate or partner. Appear­ances can be deceiving. Concentrate on improving your relations with your co-workers. 
LIHRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Old friends are your best allies now. l f dissatisfied with your social life, take steps to improve it. Join a polit­ical or community group. A humani­tarian act will he rewarded almost immediately. 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21 ): Goodwill is very important now. Do favors for friends and co-workers. Your mate or partner will need more of your time and attention soon. Postpone making major decisions. 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Clear thinking is vital today. If trying to put your personal life in order, take a bold, direct approach. Friendship is as important as pa~sion. 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): A business partner may have second thoughts about a proposed financial transaction. Examine your options before finalizing an agree­ment. A favorite hobby provides needed mental relaxation. Spend more time with a teen-ager. Have fun together! 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Today's events will bring out your untapped potential. Set happier pat­terns for family life. If others offer financial help, there could be strings attached. All things considered, you may prefer to go it alone. 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Weather a stressful situation until you have attained your goals. Rec­onciling with a parent or former employer will bring peace of mind. A small gesture could lead to large returns. Plan an imaginative roman­tic evening. 


Wanted: Reporters, photographers and editors. Join The Observer staff. 
59 Fired, as a 
firefighter? &3 Container metal 64Jacques "alive 
and well and 
living in Paris" 65 One under 66 Molson, e.g. &7 House of 
---Coburg­Gotha 68 H.S. juniors' exams 69Favorite 
DOWN 
1 Reasoning 2 Singer Bryant 3 Horses' hair 4 KLM rival 5Waver & Pay no heed to 7 River of 
forgetfulness 8 Convenience for Blockbuster customers 9--quarter 
27 Opening bars 48 1 944 Sartre 57 Where N.Y. C.
(eschew drama horseplayers go
28 Pale-faced 31 Dos Passos so Carved stone 59 Literaryassistance) 
10 Month in Paris trilogy slab monogram
11 Bed and breakfast 
33 Architectural 52 Tillers 60 Author Levin 12The U.N.'s 53 From the barrel 61 Bother
recess 34 Oklahoma city 

Hammarskjold 54 Helpful &2 Some M.I.T. 
35 Eared seal 

15 Noted paperback 55 Belief grads publisher 
36 Bread, for stew 19 "--Ia guerre" 
37 Sicilian height 39 Norse war god

21 Temple Answers to any three clues in this puzzle greeting: Var. 40 What a strict are available by touch-tone phone: 24 Eskimo home: captain runs 1-900-420-5656 (75¢ per minute). Var. 41 Deli side dish Annual subscriptions are available for the 26 Business 46 Burg best of Sunday crosswords from the last misbehavior 47 Naval force 50 years: (BOO) 762-1665. 

R~~ 
T-SHIRT TO ALL FINISHERSI 
~l~  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 3 & 6 MILE RUNS  
~llll.(/.f"'//ft;.~ ~"""SATURDAY  AND PANCAKE BREAKFAST  
Q ~  OCTOBERS 11:00-STEPAN  ~ ~  REGISTER IN ADVANCE AT RECSPORTS $5.00 IN ADVANCE AND $6.00 DAY OF RACE  
STUDENT AND STAFF DIVISIONS  

631-6100 
• 
.. 
SPORTS 
page 16 Tuesday, September 24, 1996 
• WOMEN'S SOCCER 

Gerardo lifts team over Big East rival, UConn 
By KATHLEEN LOPEZ 
Sports Writer 
Mostly likely they will meet again, and the rivalry will con­tinue. It all started when the Irish suffered a loss to the Huskies in the regular season, but they did get sweet revenge by handing two postseason losses to UConn. 
This past weekend the sec­ond-ranked women's soccer team showed their dominance by defeating the fourth-ranked Connecticut Huskies in Connecticut, 2-1. This victory along with the 6-0 win over St. John's on Friday, extended their record 19-game winning streak. 
"This win will give us a big boost," said head coach Chris Petrucelli. "It was a tough for us because there was a large team and because the Huskies were charged to play." 
In front of a record crowd at the Connecticut Soccer Stadium, sophomore Monica Gerardo drilled a shot from about 12 yards out to lead the Irish to a victory. Junior Kate Sobrero chalked up an assist on the game-winning play. 
Prior to the game, Petrucelli felt that there would be key matchups on the field. The Irish forwards would have to shut down the Huskies' sweep­er, which they did. 

Secondly, Senior Cindy Daws must try and silence UConn senior Kerry Connors. Connors did score the only goal for the Huskies, but she remained rela­tively quite for the majority of the game. The Connors' goal was the first for the Huskies in their past three meetings with the Irish. 
Senior forward Amy VanLaecke was the key player for the Irish, according to Petrucelli. She along with the other forwards, shut down the Huskies' sweeper Sara Whelan. Whelan caused lots of problems with her commanding the UConn attack from the back­field. VanLaecke scored the initial goal for the Irish in the UConn game. She connected with sophomore Holly Manthei's pass 13 minutes into the first half to gain the lead, 1­0. 
"They (Gerardo & VanLaecke) played really well," said fresh­man Jenny Streiffer. "They played the best that I have seen them, and they made some re­ally awesome goals." 

Streiffer made a mark of her own this weekend, as she re­ceived her first card of the sea­son. She received a caution for pulling on the shirt of UConn's Whelan. "It was the first one I have ever gotten," said Streiffer. "I could not keep up with her(Whelan) so I pulled her shirt." 
The defense held the Huskies to four shots in the second half. "The defense shut down one of the top offenses," said senior Cindy Daws. "So you definitely have to give them credit." 
"We will definitely meet again, " said Daws. "It will help us to have already played them." 
"Playing this game will give us knowledge," said Petrucelli. "We went into a hostile envi­ronment and came out with a win which will give us confi­dence for the rest of the sea­son." 
Prior to defeating the Connecticut Huskies, the Irish shut out St. John's, 6-0. Gerardo led the team with two goals, one of which she drilled about 25 yards outside of the 
The Obseover/Mike Ruma 

box. Sophomore Monica Gerardo was named Big East Offensive Player of the Week. Gerardo led the Irish to a shutout over St. John's, 6-0. 
see SOCCER I page 12 
• fOOTBAll

• 

The Obseover/Rob Finch 

Tight end Pete Chryplewicz will be ready to push around the Buckeyes this Saturday, while A'Jani Saners is lost for six weeks. 
Irish escape with minor injuries 
By T. RYAN KENNEDY Sports Writer 
As the days unroll from last Saturday, it appears the once­bruised Irish escaped Austin relatively unscathed. Pete Chryplewicz, who suffered an ankle sprain last week, will be ready to go for Ohio State, as will Mike Doughty and Jamie Spencer. 
"It's just a litile sprain," said the veteran tight end yesterday. "It got rolled on in the fourth quarter right before the touch­down. I'll be fine." 

l ­
I ., 
r 
Strong safety A'jani Sanders tore the anterior crucial liga­ment in his left knee at Texas, and will be lost for six weeks. The news comes as a surprise because the initial prognosis was that Sanders would be out for the season. 
"It's a bit of a setback, but nothing's too hard to over­come," said Sanders, the biggest casualty of the season for Notre Dame. 
"''ve got to stay focused and keep my head in the game. I'll be back." 
Sanders' replacement has not yet been determined. 
vs. Ohio State, ~ September 28, 1:30 p.m. 
vs. Marquette,(·~ September 27, 7:30p.m.
(..,-· 
-
at Indiana, September 27, 7:30 p.in. 
"We'll look at Benny Guilbeaux there and also Deke Cooper," said Coach Lou Holtz after yesterday's practice. "He's [Cooper] only been there about a week, but he's got more natural instinct." 
Guilbeaux, who looked sharp in his fill-in role (five unassisted tackles) despite being whistled for a late-hit call last week, is prepared to step into the start­ing role if called upon. 
"Where one guy slips, the rest pick it up," he said. 
His comment rings loud on a team that needs to come to­gether more than ever. 

vs. Ball State,@ October 1, 7 p.m. 
• WOME!\(S CROSS COIJNTRY 
Freshman leads team to top finish at Invite 
By MARIO ARCE 
Sports Writer 
The Irish women's cross country team prevailed once again by winning the 17th annual National Catholic invitational. 
.-----:::,-------. improving their record to 2-0. The I r i s h defeated the highly touted 1995 champion Marquette by ten points with a score of 36. 
Freshman Joanna Deeter once again led the Irish with a time of 16:39 over the five kilometer course. In only her second collegiate competition Deeter broke the Burke course record set by former Olympian Shinade Delehante of Providence who ran the course in 16:56. 
The Irish· contingent ran as a group early in the race as the entire top seven were all within the top twenty going through the mile. 
"We haven't worked all that hard to run this fast this early" said head coach Tim Connelly commenting on his teams unexpected fast first mile. 
Nicole Laselle was the sec­ond runner over the finish line for the Irish as she finished fourth in 17:33. Laselle and Deeter ran together up until the mile and a half mark where Deeter made a com­manding surge leaving the rest of the front runners unable to respond. Laselle fin­ished seconds behind the 1995 champion from Lewis University. 
"The two freshman up front ran great," said Connelly "Nicole ran great, she got in there and competed with the leaders." 
Nicole was not beaten by talent nor by skill but by the age of Lewis University as their lead runner is a 28 year old transfer student from Poland. Lewis finished third with a 112 points as they ran four runners in the top 15 but there Achilles' tendon was found in their fifth runner as she finished 87th. 
Heidi Reichenbach was the third runner for the Irish fin­ishing eighth with a personal best of 17:51. Mieke Walsh was in fourth for the Irish also finishing with a personal best of 17:58 good enough for tenth place. 
"Heidi and Mieke ran real well they stick together and raced together like they knew they had to," Connelly said "Heidi surprised me again this week but I guess four years of 
see IRISH/ page 12 
see page 12,14

Notre Dame Invitational, 
~ ...... 
October 4 
• Men's cross country places sixth 
~ 

Notre Dame Invitational, 
~ see page 14
October 4 
~ 
aJ •Men's interhall football begins 
--= 





