
HAPPY VALENTINE'S DAY 

Wednesday, February 14, 1996• Vol. XXVII No. 89 THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Fund raisers 
Turbiak/Miller win big in election 
to support 
By PATTI CARSON · Saim Mary's Editor • 

Q~.,"' SAINT MARY'S
senior Abdo 
The Saint Mary's student 

~\1, ELECTIONS 
Special to The Observer 
body elected the Jen Turbiak!Beth Ann Miller ticket 
Leigh Ann Hutchison/

Support for Mandy Abdo eon­
yesterday in the 1996-97 presi­Amfierly Hershberger tinuns to grow. From students 
dential elections. and faculty to alumni, people 
Turbiak!Miller won 64.4 per­are joining in an attempt to 
cent of the votes while 
The results for the 

help raise funds for the Notre Miller/l.igda scored 15 percent 
1996 Student body

Danw snnior snriously injured 
of the votes and in a car aecident last 
Hutchison/Hershberger had 
turnout was 48%. ,

Novmnher. 
14.6 percent. Six percent of The bmwfit at the Alumni-Se­
the student body abstained. nior Club earlier this semester 
The junior class had the succnssfully raisnd over 
most reprnsentation with a 63 $3,1JOO. Approximately $1,600 
percent turnout while the Emily Miller/ 
Jennifer Ligda 

of those funds wnnt towards a 
sophomore class followed with Compaq 4S6 computer, 
a 50.3 percent turnout. Nearly modem, printer and America 
46 percnnt of the freshman 
Jen Turblak/

Onlirw snrvien. People inter­
class votnd and 30.5 percent of ested in e-rnailing can reach 
the senior class voted. lwr at MandyNI>IJ6@aol.eom. 
Source: Emily Ruffner
"I was surprised at the re­
BOG electionsThe Observer/Brian Blank

Additional fundraisers are 
sults. I thought it would be a commissioner planrwd throughout thll semes­
lot closer," said President-Elect lent job as Board of ed to show that they could beter. 

Jen Turbiak. 

Governance Elections involved," she added.
All proenmls from the Senior 
"The other tickets were 

Commisioner," Miller said. Hershberger went on to sayClass play, "Plaza Suite" by 
great. I have a lot of respect "There was publicity all nver that she was "excited" for theNeil Simon, will go to the Ahdo 

for them. I commend them 

the place." Turbiak!Miller ticket. "I thinkfund. The play will be Wed. 
and look forward to working 

The other candidates were they're going to do a great
and Thur.. Feb. 14 and 15. at with them because I know they also pleased with voter job," Hershberger added.
7::Hl p.m. in Washington Hall. 
will be in strong leadership 

turnout. Leigh Ann Hutchison agreedTickets arn $3 and can be pur­positions," Turbiak added. 
"The student body really re­with Hershberger,l'hased at the LaFortune Infor­Presidential candidate Emily 
acted to the apathy issue by complimenting the
mation Desk. 
Miller said that she was happy 

voting," said vice-pn~sidential Turbiak/Miller ticket on the
Tickets to tlw Bulls v. Cava­with the increase in voting per­
candidate Amberly
centages. 
Hershberger. "Students want-see ELECTIONS/ page 4"Emily Huffner did an excel-
sec ABDO/ page 4 


The Observer/Katie Kroener 

Scaffolding in and out 
Tapestries hung in the Administration Building's rotunda caused plaster to fall from the interior walls. The tapestries were removed and the area scaffolded and tarped to avoid more damage. 
• ELECTION RUN-OFF 
The run-off for Notre Dame Student Body President and Vice President will be held today from 11 a.m. to 1 p.m., anrl 5 p.m. to 7 p.m. in the dorms and in LaFortune Student Center for off­campus students. 
Hall dedicated to Annunciata 
nunciata was Margaret McShef­The women who live in
Holy Cross sister 

fery. As a young child growing Annunciata Hall are leaders. up in Philadelphia, McSlwffp,ry They are the first to live in An­honored at SMC met Bishop Neumann. Accord­nunciata llall, and tlwy arn ing to a report from Saint continually working to improvfl
By LAURA SMITH 

Mary's Archives, he looked into it. Annunciata has new floors,
Assistant Accent Editor 

her eyes and said, "Some day, new furniture, washers. dryers, my child, you shall become a a new microwave and re­"To know, to love, to labor 
religious, and what is more, you frignrator and will soon have its
should be our motto, and this 

shall die the head of your own e-mail terminal. 
will give us a plan of studies 

order." "There's a sense of pride her
than which there is none high­

Bishop Neumann's prophesy in Augusta Hall," according to
er. Love knowledge, and you 

became a reality when Mc­resident Kari Fantasia. "Be­
will labor with all your strength 

Sheffery was clothed in the cause we're all seniors, we
to acquire it; in a word, knowl­

habit of the Sisters of the Holy share a camaraderie. Everyone
edge and love will support all 

Cross on the feast of the An­can relate to each other in a
labor, lighten it, brighten it." 

nunciation in 1860 and was relaxed atmosphere."
These words of Mother 

elected Superior General of her "It's a great atmosphere to be
Annunciata, superior general of 

order in 1S95. Mother Annun­in," added Annunciata Hall
the Sisters of the Holy Cross, 

ciata died five years later, the President Betsy Killian. "We
inspired the residents of the 

head of her religious order. are all very mature and respect
fourth floor of Holy Cross to 

McDevitt spoke of Mother each other's privaey. I'm very
name their new residence hall 

Annunciata at the llall's dedica­happy here."
after Mother Annunciata. 

tion. "If she were looking down McDevitt and Killian credit
This year, the fourth floor of 

on us today, she would be glad the involvement of the 47 An­
Holy Cross Hall replaced Au­

we started with a blessing," nunciata Hall residents and
gusta I tall as the site for Senior 

McDevitt said. "Mother Annun­Holy Cross Hesidence Director
Housing on the Saint Mary's 

ciata embodied why we came to Hache! Tenyer with the grnat
campus. The new hall was 

Saint Mary's. We are good suecess of the Hall's first year. 
dedicated on Sun., Feb. 4, with 

neighbors. We love each other Meetings will be held on 
a celebration and open house. 

and foster the growth of our Wed., Feb. 21 and Thurs., Feb.
"Mother Annunciata was one 

Christian community." 22 in the Annunciata Hall
of the first directresses of Saint 

Mother Annunciata's dedi­Lounge at 5:30 p.m. for all ju­
Mary's College," said Kelly 

cation to education and Saint niors interested in living in An­
McDevitt, Annunciata Hall sec­

Mary's inspired Annunciata nunciata Hall rwxt year. Inter­
retary. "After researching 

Hall Senior Anne Herrman to ested juniors must attend one of 
many major.contributors to the 

write a poem about her. "I was the meetings. Annunciata Hall
college, I immediately fell in 

truly inspired because Mother room selection will take place
love with Mother Annunciata 

Annunciata served as a role on Mon., Mar. 4 at 6:30 p.m.
and her story. She contributed 

model for us," Herrman said. "I encourage juniors to comll 
so much to education and Saint 

"She served her time as an ed­to the meetings," Killian said.
Mary's." 

ucator and leader. The poem is "It gives students a chance to
By a unanimous vote, Mother 

written through her eyes. look around Annunciata. We
Annunciata was chosen as the 

Mother Annunciata is looking are more than willing to show
Hall's namesake. 

down on us as we follow in her off our Hall and answer any
Before she becamfl a Sister of 

footsteps." questions students have."
the Holy Cross, Mother An-


SMC voter turnout 
•

Increases 
By MAUREEN HURLEY. Saint Mary's News Ediror 
As student apathy ranked as a major topic of debate throughout the Saint Mary's Presidential Campaigns, the campus boasted an increased election turnout. 
According to Board of Governance Elections Commissioner Emily Ruffner, voter turnout rose to 48 per­cent, compared with last year's 37 percent turnout. 
"I'm excited with the stu· dent body turnout. I'm most pleased with the junior class percentage," Ruffner said. "Being juniors, it affects us the most because these women are our classmates and our representatives." 
The Class of 1997 showed the highest turnout. Broken down, 45.7 percent of the freshman class showed up at 
sec VOTERS/ page 4 

page 2 The Observer· INSIDE Wednesday, February 14, 1996 
• INSIDE COLUMN 



A Decent Proposal 
Listen up. This is for all the guys out there who don't understand why women place so much emphasis on this day. and for the fell as who will get the silent treatment from their significant others if 

they .fail to acknowl-Patti Carson edge today. And this 
is especially for sports Saint Mary's Editor nuts who love big games like, oh, say, the Super Bowl, but can't see the significance of Valentine's Day. And so I'm going to try to explain the sig­nificance of Valentine's Day in terms that men can understand: Super Bowl Sunday. And I'm even going to go out on a limb and make a proposal for future Valentine's Days and Super Bowl Sundays. Here's the deal: Men: You know how you anticipate Super Bowl Sunday for weeks? And then the big day comes. You get together with your bud­dies to watch grown men beat the tar out of each other, grab each other's face masks, and do kinky dances in the endzones after TD's. You yell at the top of your lungs at refer­ees and players who surely cannot hear you, and even if they could they probably wouldn't consider your request to "Get that monkey, etc. off the field". And then there's the food factor. You complain when you order pizza during the first quarter and it hasn't yet arrived by halftime. You eat cans of peanuts, potato chips, Doritos, basically mass quantities of choles­terol. It's plain unhealthy, guys. Then there's the money factor. You bet your hard earned money on the game and then you just sort of sit back and revel in all of it. And for most of you, that borders on heav­enly. And you think women are freaks for their observance of Valentine's day? At least Valentine's day is a holiday revolving around love and promoting peace. So when we'd like to get flowers or choco­late on Valentine's day, humor us. After all, we humor you by occasionally watching the game. So maybe you could partake of Valentine's Day to reciprocate. So my proposal is this, and I think it's decent one. Women will start acknowledg­ing Super Bowl Sunday as a national holiday if men -start seeing Valentine's Day as one. We'll get Hallmark to start selling greeting cards with helmets on them that say, "May your team win, and not just by a field goal" and "May the beautiful voice of Diana Ross during the halftime show stay with you all year long." We'll make it a custom te start exchanging footballgrams. You'll see MCI commercials with dads calling their sons in different cities to jokingly tell them. "Your team hasn't got a chance." We'll implement a ritualistic cake to be eaten before kickoff with a mini-Vince Lombardi trophy on it. Heck, we'll even see if they can make a Charlie Brown Super Bowl special. All this can be yours for the simple price of the acknowledgment of this special day. Get my point? Be nice today. This day is a big deal for a lot of people, not all of us, but for some. Let them revel in it. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer . 
• TODAY'S SiJ.\Ff 
News Accent Gwendolyn Norgle Krista Nannery Maureen Hurley Production 
Sports Tara Grieshop Joe Villinski Jackie Moser Betsy Baker 
Lab Tech Graphics Michael Hungeling Brian Blank 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associared Press. All reproduction righrs are reserved. 

• ·wmuJJ AT AGUU.JCE 
Gibson's 'Braveheart' leads parade of Oscar nominees 
BEVERLY HILLS. Calif  ing the film's script  -an Oscar first for  
"Braveheart," actor-director Mel  an actress. She faces Susan Sarandon in  
Gibson's battlefield _epic about 13th  "Dead Man Walking," Elisabeth Shue in  
century Scotland, captured a leading.  "Leaving Las Vegas," Sharon Stone in  
10 Academy Award nominations  "Casino" and Meryl Streep in "The  
today, including best picture.  Bridges of Madison County."  
It will be up against "Apollo 13,"  "Apollo 13" collected nine nominations  
"Babe," "Sense and Sensibility," and 'The  and "Babe" and "Sense and Sensibility"  
Postman" fortheyear'sbestmovie.  each got seven. The best picture nomina- 
Academy voters spread the top  tion for "The Postman" was the first for­ 
bids across a spectrum of titles but  eign-language nominee in the top catego­ 
shunned some early Oscar favorites.  ry since "Cries and Whispers" in 1973.  
Massimo Troisi was nominated for  No foreign-language film has ever taken  
best actor in "The PQstman," the  the best picture statuette.  
first posthumous lead acting selec­tion in 20 years. The actor, who died at age 41 just 12 hours after filming  ''Braveheart" "Apollo 13"  The best picture nominations encom­pass a broad range of stories: "Braveheart" is a bloody epic about  
ended, also shared a screenwriting credit with four co-writers of the movie.  "Babe" ''Sense and c;::A,nc.ihili,tu':D=  Scottish rebellion; "Apollo 13" retells the harrowing true story of astronauts trapped in a dying spacecraft; "Sense  
Also nominated for best actor were Nicolas Cage in "Leaving Las  "The Postman"  and Sensibility" is a lush period film exploring unrequited -and eventually  
Vegas," Richard Dreyfuss in "Mr.  requited -love; "The Postman" is about  
Holland's Opus," Anthony Hopkins  the unexpected friendship of an exiled  
in "Nixon" and Sean Penn in "Dead Man Walking."  ._______________A_P__.  Chilean poet and a mail carrier in a remote town; and "Babe" is a computer- 
Emma Thompson was nominated  enhanced adaptation of the children's  

for best actress for "Sense and Sensibility," and for writ-barnyard book "Babe, the Gallant Pig." 
Super Bowl champs back Clinton 
WASHINGTON 
President Clinton greeted Super Bowl champion Dallas Cowboys for the third time on Tuesday, and picked up a very casual endorsement from team owner Jerry Jones. "Ever since Bill Clinton got elected president of the United States, the Dallas Cowboys have been winning Super Bowls. We've got to get Bill Clinton re-elected." Jones said. "No 

way in my fondest imagination could I believe we could share this with you three times." Clinton acknowledged that traveling to the White House has become something of a habit for the Cowboys. "This is beginning to be bor­ing for them, I think," the president said. "This is the only thing that happens at the White House as regularly as the State of the Union address," Clinton joked. "In some ways, it's better. It's shorter." The Cowboys became NFL champions after defeating the Pittsburgh Steelers last month. They have won the Super Bowl three of the last four years. 
Tethered teen taken into state custody 
MONCKS CORNER, S.C. 
A 15-year-old girl who spent two months tethered to her parents was sent directly from a courtroom Tuesday into state custody. A judge stated that her home was no place to be. Tonya Kline's lawyer had argued that being tethered to her mother or father was punishment in itself. The teenager, who was charged with truancy, shoplifting, burglary and grand larceny. also apologized to the judge. "A return to your home right now without adequate structure and supervision is an invitation to dis­aster," said Family Court Judge Wayne Creech, who sen­tenced her to state custody for an undetermined period. In December, Creech said Tonya, who had been in cus­tody, could go home pending sentencing but only if she were tethered 24 hours a day to her mother, Deborah, including while Tonya was at school. Mrs. Harter was hospitalized last month after a drug overdose and Tonya's stepfather, Richard Harter, then assumed the tether. But last weekend he returned to his Navy job and the family helped pay for others to hold the tether until the court appearance. 

Gramm to pull out of presidential race 
CONCORD, N.H. 

Battered by back-to-hack defeats in Iowa and Louisiana, Texas Sen. Phil Gramm called top supporters around the country Tuesday night and told them he would quit the Republican presidential race, GOP sources said. Gramm planned an afternoon announcement Wednesday in Washington. Gramm's departure would leave an eight-man GOP field, with one week to go before the New Hampshire primary. It also would remove from the race a dogged conservative campaigner who early on was viewed by Sen. Bob Dole's campaign as the biggest threat to his status as the GOP front-runner. But Gramm's campaign never realized its promise, and he was facing dim prospects in New Hampshire after being stunned by Pat Buchanan in Louisiana last week and then placing a distant fifth Monday in Iowa's caucuses. Last night, Gramm was calling top supporters around the country and informing them of his plans to quit, accord­ing to three GOP sources who spoke on condition of anonymity. Several top Gramm aides also were informing friends and associates, the sources said. 
Court order allows Kmart raid 
MIAMI 

When Kmart Corp. failed to pay up immediately on a $2 million court order, U.S. marshals declared their own blue-light special at two stores. About six agents dressed in raid jackets emptied the cash registers of $45,000 Monday night at stores in Hollywood and Davie. A court clerk gave the go-ahead for attorneys to collect the money after Kmart failed to post the required bond in an age-discrimination lawsuit. "Jesse James held up a train and counts his money in the woods. These guys counted it on the counter in the front of everybody," said James Eso, who was shopping with his wife at the Kmart in Hollywood when it was raided. Company officials were outraged. "I would have to think our federal marshals would have other activities they could be attending to rather than this charade," said Shawn Kahle, a spokes­woman for the Troy, Mich.-based department store chain. In August, a jury found that Kmart engaged in age discrimination when it began a program to bring in a younger management team to fill the positions of phar­macists, store managers and others. 


Wednesday, Feb. 14 
AccuWeather"' forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures The AccuWeather<B>forecast for noon, Wednesday, Feb. 14. 


......_._ ............ 
COLD WARM STATIONARY 
0 1996 AccuWeather, Inc. 
PrtiSIIIJrfJ 


HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY Pr CLOUOY CLOUDY 
Atlanta 62 38 Dallas 78 49 New Orleans 67 48 Baltimore 39 23 Denver 59 37 New York 30 20 Boston 32 10 Los Angeles 72 55 Philadelphia 36 23 Chicago 34 26 Miami 73 45 Phoenix 76 55 Columbus 33 28 Minneapolis 27 19 StLouis 45 39 


-------~ 
WcJncsJay, february 14, 1996 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
• HALL PRESIDENTS-COUNCIL 

Council unanimously decides redistricting 
Ry DEBORAH SCHULTZ O'Neill, Welsh and the new 
putt. News Writer unnamed dorm. 
"lt is a great idea so that Distriet 2: Carroll, Lyons, 
these kids have a chance to be A proposal for the redistrict­Morrissey, Howard, Badin, 
kids," said Pasquerilla East ing of dorms was unanimously Walsh, Sorin 
Co-President Megan Pater. passed at the Hall Presidents' District 3: Stanford, Keenan, 
HPC has money in the bud­Council meeting last night. Zahm, Cavanaugh, St. Ed­
get to donate to a service pro­Tlw Student Senate approved ward's, Lewis 
ject, but in order for it to be llw same proposal last week. District 4: Farley, Breen­
used, HPC members must be making a two-thirds majority Philips, Siegfried, Knott, Pas­
involved. votn by IIPC necessary for the querilla East, Pasquerilla 
"We have money here for redistricting to become an West 
service activities, but we need anwndmentto the Student Since Welsh Hall and the 
you guys to help us out. Governrrwnt constitution. new unnamed dorm will not 
There is no set number of peo­"This is basically only for be occupied until 1997, the 
ple needed, but we would like rPpresentation on eampus, for amount of people and gender 
a fair showing," said Schlatter such things as who votes for on eaeh quad will not be equal !Below is proposal one, unanimously approved by Hall President touncil last night. This same proposal won in the Student Senatt ast week. These figures represent the campus in 1997 District #1 District #2 District #3 District #4 Alumni 269 Carroll I02 Stanford 268 Farley 248 Dillon 339 Lyons 203 Keenan 280 Breen-Philips 200 Fisher 189 Morrissey 320 Zahm 237 Siegfried 235 Pangborn 20 l Howard 164 Cavanaugh 227 Knott 228 Keough 275 Badin 126 St. Edward's 174 P.E 226 O'Neill 275 Walsh 190 Lewis 282 P.W. 237 Welsh 275 Sorin 171 INew norm275  
5 male 3 male 4 male 2 male 3 female 4 female 2 female 4 female 2 098 residents I ,306 residents I 468 residents I ,374 residents  

to council members last what senators and where the until1997-98. "There are Children Here" which is about ill-treated chil­night. candidates for senators will "We tried to make things as service project started by dren who don't have the Schlatter encouraged the campaign. It won't drastically even as possible. Next year James Langford, assistant opportunity for a real child­dorm presidents to think 
change anything," said Co­will probably be kind of weird, professor, Arts and Letters hood. about the project and deter­
Chair Matt Schlatter. but after that things will work Core. He decided to bring abused mine what dates would be Tho rndistricting is as fol­out well." said Co-Chair "Professor Langford started or homeless kids to his prop­good, and at the meBting next lows: Kristin Beary. this project after teaching the erty for a week or a weekend. week they plan to schedule 
District 1: Alumni, Dillon. IIPC also decidPd to donate book "There are No Children A baseball diamond was just times to work at Langford's FishPr. Pangborn. Keough. funds and volunteers to the Here" in his core course, built and there is a chip-n-farm. 
Recycle The Observer 

Berry to discuss Catholic role in ecology 
,:.N'6t!ft; 'ntt:D:l~ merchandise >,/,: .•..•.. ·(o,·····a················r···v···············a~·········il0am·····b··········I>8 
·.·.··:·.·.·:·:·.·.·,·=:·:·:·)(\:::.:.: e'·nadt.'tDhaed 
MINORITIES IN ACADEMIA 
• LaFortune Information 
Desk.
A Presentation by 
DR. ARNOLD L. MITCHEM 
EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR, N.C.E.O.A. WASHINGTON D.C. 
WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 14, 1996 
7:00 P.M. 

C.C.E. AUDITORIUM 
LaFortune Student Center (219)631-8128  
nformatlon Desk Hours 9 AM.-9 PM. (M-F) HOURS 12 P.M.-8 P.M. (Sat. & Sun.)_...,..._  

'£co-theologian, ' advisor to visit ND this week 
Special to The Observer 

Father Thomas Berry, an environmental author and self­described "!leo-theologian," will deliver a lncture entitled "The Catholic University: Its Hole in the Ecologieal Crisis" Thursday at 7 p.m. in the 
"Where The Aroma Of Gentle Spices Awaits You"
~~  
Featuring  
HA LA gAR II II . J II . J II  _  North INDIAN TANDOORS & South INDIAN CURRIES Delicious Meats, Fish & Vegetarian Platters  
~ ~11  ~  Imported Indian & Other Wines & Beer  

10% discount for students on Valentine's Day DINE IN • CARRY OUT • CATERING • RESERVATIONS DESIRED Dinner Tues-Thurs 5:00-9:00 
Frl -Sat 5:00 -9:30 
:z,••~r<D: 
LaFortune Ballroom. 

Berry is a Passionist priest and former Fordham Univer­sity professor who has advised 
U.S. Catholic bishops and the Clinton administration on envi­ronmental matters. 
In 1979, he retired from Fordham, where his seholar­ship and teaehing concerned cultural history and Asian reli­gions, and began to study the work of the Jesuit paleontolo­gist and mystic Father Teilhard de Chardin. 
Taking up one of Chardin's theological themes, Berry's ac­count of evolution is both material and spiritual. 
A recurrent theme in his lec­tures. essays and books is that the universe itself is God's "primary revolution" and "the larger sacred community to which we all belong." 
Berry's views, expressed in such books as "The Dream of the Earth," Befriending the Earth," and "The Universe Story" have been controversial among environmentalists 
Have a 
tigger-ific 
21st 
Birthday, 
Christina! 
-~ "PaU" 

Hey Juniors!!! 
unused to religious discourse, and among other theologians who have argued that his work takes insufficient account of the existence of moral evil. 
Kenneth Woodward. Newswm\k Magazinn's n\ligion writer, described Berry as "the most provocative figure among this new breed of ceo-theolo­gians ... whose essays have aroused environmentalists like a voice crying in the wilder­ness." 
Berry's lecture is sponsored by the Students for Environ­mental Action. 
SPONSORED BY THE CANDAX MCNAIR PROGRAM 
We Accept both Visa. Master 
Card, and Discover
INTERESTED FACULTY AND STUDENTS ARE INVITED 
REFRESHMENTS IN ADJACENT LOUNGE AT 8:00 P.M. 
page 4 The Observer • NEWS Wednesday, February 14, 1996 
Elections 
continued from page 1 
election and the campaigning. "I hope they have a successful 1996­97 with BOG," Hutchison said. 
As far as the first step of the elected ticket is concerned, Turbiak and Miller hope to "continue talking with stu­dents and developing ideas" from their platform. 
"In the next month or two, I'd like to get the dining hall calendar up," Turbiak said. "We'd also like to get our first insert in a campus publication by the end of the year." 
''I've already spoken with the cur­rent vice-president and I am excited to delve into the Student Academic Council," said Vice President-Elect Beth Ann Miller. 
"The first thing I'd like to do is to seek a faculty advisor for SAC because the board currently doesn't have an official member," she said. 
''I'd like to commend the work that Mitchell has accomplished with SAC and and I look forward to adding to 
that success," she added. 
Abdo 
continued from page 1 
liers game on Feb. 20, and an­other game to be decided, will be raffled off at the class play and the Alumni-Senior Club. They will be available on Wednesday and Thursday evenings for $2 per ticket and $5 for three tickets. Winners will be notified Friday. 
The Notre Dame Club of Min­nesota donated 2,000 unsold posters to the Senior Class. The posters picture the stu­dent section performing the "Lou" cheer during a Notre Dame home football game. Posters will go on sale soon at the Lafortune Information 
Have something to say? Use The Observer classifieds. 
Voters 

continued from page 1 
the polls, with 50.3 percent of sophomores, 63 percent of juniors, and 30.5 percent of seniors. 
Reaching off-campus stu­dents still raises concern, as only 3.9 percent of off­campus students showed up to vote. 
An increase in the voter turnout stood as a primary BOG goal following last year's low turnout. 
"In the past couple years, not many people have been voting," said Sarah Sullivan in February 1995, following her election as Student Body President. "A good goal to set is to have half of the total student body vot­ing."­
Notre Dame Senate Representative Leslie Field credits the increased voter turnout to the election com­mittee work. "Emily Ruffner and the Election Committee did an outstand­ing job of publisizing this election," Field said. "We were very happy with the turnout, and we h,ope these high numbers contiue in upcoming elections." 
Candidates view the increase in voter turnout as a direct response to recent criticism regarding the lack of student involvement. 
"I think it's wonderful," said President-elect Jen Turbiak. 
"If were any question about student involvement and interest at Saint Mary's, this puts those to the test." 
"The student body was really reacting to the apa­thy issue," said junior and vice presidential candidate Amberly Hershberger. "Students wanted to show that they could be in­volved." 
Desk for $10. dedicated to Abdo and her 
English Professor Paul Rath­family. burn has teamed up with a "The old metaphor about the primarily-senior cast for a 'Notre Dame family' -every graduation week production of once in a while comes fully to "A Midsummer Night's life, and this is one of those oc­Dream." The production is casions," Rathburn said. 
The Observer 
is now hiring for the following paid position: 
Assistant Accent Editor 
Freshmen and Sophomores are encouraged to apply. Some journalism experience and basic knowledge of desktop publishing helpful. 
Please bring a one page personal statement to Krista in 314 LaFortune by 2 pm, Thursday February 15. Ca/11-4540 with uestions. 
),~M*ry clcqu!,tswteenagers ··'JII~sbf,.Student's murder 
Associated Press 

PHILADELPHIA 
Rejecting testimony from police and two former co­defendants, a jury acquitted two teen-agers of murdering a University of Pennsylvania graduate student in a $5 holdup. 
Anthony Archer, 16, and Gregory Pennington, 17, were convicted of only robbery. theft and conspiracy in the 1994 shooting of Al-Moez Alimohamed. 
''It's surprising when you have two police witnesses and you have two of the other de­fendants having pointed the finger at these guys," Bill Davol. spokesman for the dis­trict attorney's office, said after Monday's verdict. 
Antoine Saunders, 19, and 
Ollie Taylor, 16, pleaded · guilty to murder in the slaying and testified against Archer and Pennington to avoid the 
death penalty. 
Alimohamed was one year 
short of his doctorate in math­
ematical logic and theoretical 
computer science at Penn, 
which awarded him his 
degree posthumously.After 
the verdict, jurors asked to 
meet with defense attorneys. 
"They said they hoped the 
kids learned something from 
this," said Vincent Lorusso, 
Archer's lawyer. Archer, who 
would have faced the death 
penalty if convicted of mur­
der, could get as much as 35 
years in prison. 

Don't cry Stacey Segan, 
'cause now u're 21!! 
\Love, 
\ Your You 
Friends 

Wednesgay, February 14, 1996 The Observer • NEWS page 5 
Tavis: Corporations have ethical responsibilities 
By MELANIE LAFLIN Assistanr News Ediwr 
Some might think it's an oxy­moron to include "corporation" and "ethics" in the same sen­tenen, but aceording to Notre Dame business professor Lee Tavis, corporations have a responsibility to their stake­holdnrs, their worknrs and the local community, and thus, should consider nthics as part of their corporate strategy. 
Tavis, a member of the Kroc Institute for International Pe;u.,e Studies, spokn yestnrday in the llnsburgh Center for lntnrnational Studies on the 
INTERVIEW WITH PEACECORPS 
For more information call Brian at 80~24-8580 (option 1) 
Visit Peace Corps' homepage at http://www.peacecorps.gov 

~~~~~~0.~~ 
Volwll•nmUIItMUScttu...andme~tott.r-qu.Uikattorw. ln. e..mo/Mt\'kw .. twoy..rs. ThlrmJnlmumapa.11,bullNIN&.no uppuap Umit r-Cort-do.notd'-crtmiNw onatwb.•lliol ,.~..... .WI&Ion. ... (OYW40) OI'MIIUoll ort.nutlon. AllPue~~ Corpt proaranw .,.adm!Nit•r-i on • non.-dbcrimlnlkn)' b&lll. 

spanning function of multina­tional corporations relative to their role and responsibility. Tavis also discussed the impor­tant ethical issues that arise from their expansion into vari­ous third world countries. 
"There are two views to the impaet of the multinational eorporation on these less economically developed coun­tries," he said. "One is that these eorporations ereate a huge systemic power imbal­ance which leads to rotten out­comes. The second is that these corporations bring growth and thus, positively contribute by opening markets and ereating greater accessibility of products to these countries." 
"Who is right?" Tavis asked, adding that "each are correct." 
"While multinational corporations do enhance pro­ductivity and should receive credit," he said, "they should bear the responsibility for unjust outcomes of that sys-
tern." 
Shifting to a more microeco­nomic level, Tavis focused on what the individual manager should do when faced with ethical concerns. 
Managers should receive some form of guidance when exercising their power, he said. 
"How do we respond to the needs of stakeholders, those individuals impacted by the ac­tions of the firm? The role of management must be to nego­tiate among stakeholders," Tavis said. 
"These managers must be permitted to use the manageri­al area of discretion, the free­dom to respond to stakehold­ers' needs and allocate the resources of the firm." 
Tavis discussed the impor­tance of a multinational corpo­ration properly representing stakehol6ers inadequately rep­resented by weak institutions. "Obeying the law has nothing to do with ethics," he said. 


CELEBRATED EVENTS 
Comprehensive Wedding Coordinating and Party Planning 
SPECIALIZING IN LONG-DISTANCE WEDDING PLANNING 
CYNTHIA BASKER 
302 East Donaldson Avenue Mishawaka, Indiana 46545 
219 258-5482 Call or write for free informational packet 
"The law is the minimum. Taking a proactive stance is critical." 
Yet, how can corporations respond to different cultures and values involved in local operations while maintaining a uniform set of standards? 
"The massive differences be­tween the parent country and the less economically devel­oped host country are set against the uniformity of the multinational network," Tavis said. "Uniformity versus flexi­bility remains a major issue with corporations." 
In the end, according to Tavis, the multinational corporation has to "ensure stockholders' rights to subsis­tence, access and education, and participation in decisions that influence them." 
Approaching business from a long term point of view rather than solely centering on short term profit may create a more ethical environment where multinational corporations could use their increasing market power for the better­ment of their stakeholders, Tavis said. 
IIIII CIIITIY Ill I IIIAIFAIT ltlllliY 
11tc Pn~fcrrcd Rc..f.!ist 1y 
Reserve luxurious rooms or private homes lor JPW I Graduauon. or stay at the Moose Krause House when available. Reservauons available NOWI 
To reserve: 

• 


page 6 The Observer • NATIONAL NEWS Wednesday, February 14, 1996 
Buchanan gloats after second-place showing in caucus 

By MIKE GLOVER 
Associated Press 
DES MOINES, Iowa 
Bob Dole eked out a victory in Iowa's presidential caucuses but it was Pat Buchanan who gloated today after a solid and surprising second-place show­ing left him crowding Dole for a perch atop the GOP field. 
"The party likes Bob Dole, respects him, but. .. it wants someone with new vision, not the politics of yesterday," Buchanan said. "He offers sim­ply, 'I'm not Bill Clinton."' 
Dole, looking weary, turned today to next-up New Hamp­shire, especially important be­cause its primary has tripped him up in 1992 -and because he finished in Iowa a scant 3 percentage points ahead of Buchanan. 
"It's an honor to be here," the Kansan told the New Hampshire legislature in Con­cord. "There's nothing like a good night's sleep ... " 
He barely mentioned the Iowa results -or his rivals ­in his 30-minute speech. In­stead, he touted his "tested 
DOORS OPEN 9 P.M. 
FREE FOOD BEFORE 11 
FREE ADMISSION WITH THIS AD BEFORE 11 P.M. 
ENTREPRENEUR CLUB 
"Don't Walt For An Opportunity••• Create One!" 
Have an idea for anew business? How about an idea for improving an old one? 
If so, then you would be perfect for the 
Sdsh•ess Plan Contest 
Prizes ol $2000, $1000, and $500 lOr the top three husiraess plarts Come to our first meeting on February 15 at 7:00pm In the Sorin Room (First Floor Lafortune) 
values." 

"Only men and women of character can lead govern­ment," he said. 
While Dole was trying to act presidential, his aides were more willing to snipe at his ri­vals. His spokesman Nelson Warfield said Buchanan should be taken seriously, but quickly labeled him a "hell-raiser and bomb-thrower.'' 
As for Lamar Alexander, who claimed momentum with a third-place finish in Iowa, Warfield said he may have taken the "bronze medal, but in this race there's nothing but first place." 
After learning Monday night's results, a subdued Dole had declared his win "the first big step on our road." But Buchanan said that Iowa established him as "the one conservative who can win this nomination." 
Alexander, meanwhile, said, "Pat ran well in the caucuses, but in the end it's going to be a contest between Bob Dole and me." 
For wealthy publisher Steve Forbes, a $4 million in­
$1 ADMISSION 
EARING OR HOLDING ANYTHING RED, $4 WITHOUT H DANCE FLOORS OPEN UNTIL CLOSING 


vestment in Iowa caucuses 
yielded only a fourth place 
showing and Texas Sen. Phil 
Gramm could do no better 
than fifth. That disappointing 
performance guaranteed 
Gramm would face a campaign 
week filled with questions 
about how long his run for the 
party's presidential nomina­
tion could go on. · 

Dole and Gramm avoided the 
day-after talk show diagnosis 
of their disappointing show­
ings, but the first order of 
business for their rivals today 
was to put the best possible 
cast on the results: 

• Crowed Buchanan: "I think we're gonna give Bob Dole dif­ficulty." He conceded, howev­er, that he still has a "winabil­
. ity" problem. 

• 
Smiled Forbes: ''I'm fine ... We managed to do what we wanted to do, which was finish in the top four." 

• 
Said Alexander, in a jab at Forbes: "Iowans really got fed up with the mudslinging.... He spent too much money." 


With 98 percent of the state's 2,142 precincts reporting, Dole 
r--------------------------------------, 
~ 
[})i,Q>W[] ffi/J~~ 
HOURS: Monday-Thursday 7:00 a.m. to I 0:00 p.m. • Friday 7:00 a.m. to 8:00 p.m. • Saturday 9:00a.m. to 7:00p.m. • Sunday 9:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. 
NOTRE DAME 2.77-1166 
Wtdl(intr Distance from N.D. 
Must be 18 or older. One per customer. Not valid with any other offer. Expires 2/25/96 
L 


th 
7:15PM 
Stanford...Keenan Chapel 
stood at 26 percent and Buchanan was at 23 percent. Alexander won 18 percent, while Forbes was trailing with 10 percent. Gramm limped in at 9 percent, edging out con­servative commentator Alan Keyes, at 7 percent. 
Indiana Sen. Dick Lugar drew only 4 percent, while businessman Morry Taylor drew 1 percent. Taylor's show­ing did outdo California Rep. Robert Dornan, who got 131 votes, less than 1 percent. 
President Clinton had no op­position in Democratic caucus­es and laid claim to all of the state's 56 Democratic dele­gates. Democrats said a brutal Republican race had opened the door for Clinton to capture the state in the fall . 
Dole shrugged off the in­evitable suggestions he'd won a shaky victory, saying he had done well after a relentless television assault from Forbes. 
"We withstood a barrage of millions and millions and mil­lions of dollars of negative ad­
vertising and came out on '---------------A--"P top," Dole said. 
Iowa 
Caucus 
~··
results 
~·· 
With 98% of precincts reporting: Lamar ALEXANDER _...,;.···-;;t-!if&;;':;D~------18% Patrick BUCHANAN 
___•.,....,:A_q_r.,-____ 23% 

26% 
Bob DORNAN 
0% 
Steve FORBES 
.Ia 10% 
Phil GRAMM ...w:ill_______________ 9% Alan KEYES 
WI 7% 
Richard LUGAR 
..I __________________ 4% 
Morry TAYLOR 
J 1% 


VIEWPOINT 
Wednesday, February 14, 1996 page 7 

THE OBSERVER 
NoTIU·. DAM F. OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notrr Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1995-96 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief John Luca.• 

Business Manager  
Joseph Riley  
New• Editor ................................ David Tyler  Adverti•ing Manager ........................... john Potter  
Viewpoint Editor .................. Mcaghan Smith  Ad Design Manager ...................... Jen Mackowiak  
Spon. Editor ............................. Mike Norbm  Production Manager .................. Jacqueline Moser  
Act:ent f.ditor ........................ Krista Nannery  Systems Manager ............................ Sean Callavan  
Saint Mary's Editor .................... Paui Carson  Observer Marketing Director .......... Pete Coleman  
Controller ............................................. Eric Lorge  

The Oluerver is the inJependent newspaper published hy the students of the University of Notre ll;~mc Ju l.al· and Saim Mary's College. It does not necessarily reAeCl the policies of the adminisua­liun of eirhrr imriturion. The nffls is reported as accurately and objcctivdy as possible. Unsigned edi­tnri•l• repre"'nr the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpnino Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Spom Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. ( :ummrnraric:s, leuc:rs and Inside Columns prcscm rhc vic:ws of rhe authors, and not necessarily those of The Oh.w;rver. Vicwpuim spa~.:e is available to all membc:rs of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's com­muniry and ro all readc:rs. The frc:e expression ofvarying opinions through lrners is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 

Editnr-in.Chief 631-4542 Business Office 631-5313 Managing EJitnr/Viewpoint 631-4541 Advrrrising 631-6900/8840 Spuru 631-4543 Systems/Marketing Dept. 631-8839 News/Piwro 631-5323 Olllcc Manager 631-7471 Accrnr/Sainr Mary's 631-4540 Fax 631-6927 11ay Editor/Prt,duction 631-5303 Viewpoint E-Mail Viewpoint. I @nd.edu ( irm·r.tl InfOrmation 631-7471 AJ E-Mail observer@darwin.cc.nd.edu 
• LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Meet the marvel behind the card 

Dear Editor: Happy Valentines Day to all! 
As I made my way down the labyrinthine way of the Notre Dame Hammes Book Store, I couldn't help but marvel at the splendid array of Valentine cards for sale in various shapes, designs, and nwssages; and as I looked, I wondered just how many of us know of' the historical background of' this very special day. Maybe I can help. 
St. Valentine, a priest, was martyred on February 14th, in the year 271 and has been one of the most popular figures in the chur('h's calendar and outside it. His death was celebrated as Parly as th1~ 7th eentury, but by the 14th century, its religious sig­nificance was overshadowed by the popular exchange of Vah~ntines and other gifts between lads and lasses of all ages and kinships in expressing love and friendship and has continuP.ri until the prnsnnt day. 
Tlwre are snveral theories, one of which, is the European nwdi~wal lwlid that birds bngan to pair on February 14. lienee, young nwn and girls would formally choose each other then, or at 
least, send each other greetings on  February 14. Since February  
14th was tlw feast of' St. Valentine,  why not, as it were, put  this  
s1wcial day under his patronage'?  

BROTHER EDWARD COURTNEY, C.S.C Corby Hall 

Klein ads put money over values 
Dear Editor: 
This is in response to the Calvin Klein ad/poster in one of last week's issues. I am both disappointed and concerned about the messages being sent to the student body by the Observer's behavior in electing tq put economics ahead of morality. 
First, as evidenced by campus ministry's special sessions. the need for support groups, the strong stand against coed dor­mitories, and the recent sane­lion against campus sports fig­ures, this university takes a hard stand against sexual promiscuity and suggestive behavior. Klein ads have very little to do with advertising clothes and everything to do with advertising sex; this is a fact Klein is particularly proud of. This poster was no excep­tion. The poster distributed in The Observer displays young partially clad couples in erotic and suggestive situations. This alone should have been enough to dissuade the Observer from distributing the posters to the student body. 

·­

'Klein ads have very 
little to do with advertising and every­thing to do with adver­tising sex; this is a fact Klein is particuarly proud of. This poster was no exception. 
Second, the Catholic church along with many other religious organizations strongly opposes pornography, especially child pornography. Just last year Klein was pressured to remove ads from all visual media because these ads contained child pornography: When interviewed about these ads, Klein expressed absolutely no remorse-in fact, he expressed elation and stated, "there is no such thing as bad advertise­ment." In other words, this is a man who is perfectly willing to exploit children to gain market share. 
Taking into consideration the content of Klein ads and Klein's unscrupulous behavior, I am deeply saddened that my uni­versity's newspaper chooses to encnnragc and support Klein by accepting and distributing sex­ually suggestive posters at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's. In the future, I challenge you to turn down advertising dollars rather than support child pornographers and sex ads. 
MARY WIGGINS ND Law Srudont 

Making amends with Christianity 
Dear Editor: I did not disagree that all male-female rela­· One is always embarrassed to see oneself on tionships are of a sexual nature, but did spend the front page of a newspaper, but since J was a lot of time in the talk broadening the sense of 
(Monday, Feb. 5, 1996), I feel compelled to what it means to be sexual in nature. 
clarify a few statements attributed to me. But I For what it's worth, I would stt·ess that close­
do very much appreciate The Observer's cover­ness to God is a higher value than closeness to 
age of my talk. a moral ideal. although I acknowledge that 
My amendments: point to be primarily metaphysical. 
I did not intend that my comments about the I offer these amended comments in case any­compartmentalization of our sexuality be one was shocked by what was reported, and imputed to Christianity. Hather, [see that as a am, of course, willing to have further discourse characteristic of our secular culture. on these or any .other points of my talk with 
Aetually, instead of saying that falling short anyone who might so desire. of a moral ideal is not sin, that's exactly how I defined sin. Then 1 went on to say that sin is STEPHEN P. NEWTON, C.S.C. the human condition, blessed and absolved by Rector God, as in the sacrament of reconciliation. Sorin College 
• 000NESBURY 
Wait a minute ... Whywuuld you blow your 
cover for $25,000 when your byline as 
"Anonymous" could be wurth millions? 

GARRY TRUDEAU  
Something doesn't add up here, pal!This has been a big scam from the start, hasn't it?  Just who do you think you're dealing with here, fellah? This is incredible! How dumb do you thinK I a~  

• QuOTE OF THE DAY 
"There are three things 
that remain: faith, hope and love; and the greatest of these is love." 
-Corinthians 13: 13 

VIEWPOINT
page 8 Wednesday, February 14, 1996 
• lETTERS 10 THE Emmit 

Opening a new door may bring in something beautiful 
Dear Editor: and I think that we all know selfless in our love for the you say to him/her? Doesn't this could be seen to be highly Ever wonder about the other what these sights and feelings other, and it is totally selfish in much of the world come down relevant in today's talk of dorm side of Valentine's Day? are. our desire not to be lonely and to the meeting, the nod of the spirit, co-residentiality and rep­
The dichotomy of a day which Who is that girlfriend? That to have someone care for us. head, the polite smile of greet­resentation. Like everything on the one hand seems boyfriend? Someone to share a We all want it in some sense, ing, the exchanging of the first else, it depends on you. designed for love, a thing which movie with? The person who and yet it seems that we sense few empty words about how But then maybe more of us would never be thought to leaves you flowers because he its power and fear it as well. cool the party is? are romantics than we care to cause anguish for anyone, yet knows you love roses? The girl We all claim that we can't find Maybe those first few words admit. Maybe other people on the other hand seems to you want to break up with? a boy/girlfriend, yet we all seem shouldn't be so empty. Maybe think the same things, feel the 
exude a sense of exclusion to The one who you can talk to those who cannot share in its who will .understand when your celebration leaves many con­dad makes you feel unsuccess­fused. If you have ever not had ful or when your mother wishes a date for Cupid's day of honor, you were more like her? The you may understand what I am one who makes you feel as if talking about. you will be a young man forev­
It's kind of a scary thing, real­er? The one who makes you ly. A day that is set-up for cou­cry? ples and has no use or sympa­How do you fall in love? Is it thy for single folks doesn't leave across a crowded seminar hall? a lot of leeway. You can either The quad? A long series of participate in the revelry, or dates which finally result in you can't. You don't find a lot love? Someone in band with of Valentine's Day specials in you, someone you know for restaurants for the solitary years and finally get to really diner, nor is there a large mar­know? Your lab partner, your ket share for "One Person roommate's sister, a stranger at Boxes" at See's candies. V-Day a party?But those are all what 
'you can either par­
ticipate in the rev­elry, or you can't. You don't find a lot of Valentine's Day specials in restaurants for the solitary diner, nor is there a large market share for "One Person Boxes" at See's candies. 
the oh-so-polite-yet-impenetra­same way. The person you ble veneer with which we keep don't have the courage to the world at bay isn't the way. approach may not have the It maybe, however, that playing courage to approach you. things a little closer to the heart Maybe we should all find the might make sense. Allowing courage not just to approach ourselves to follow what might that heretofore unapproachable be a dream, a notion, a whim, person (we see at any party an attraction because we feel that a few beers can give lots curious might lead us to a few and lots of courage), but maybe more successes. A few more we can find the courage to be dPfeats, also? A few more approached, to have our priva­heartaches and troubles? cy threatened, to lose some of Probably. Who can deny that? the safety of our walls for a 
But doesn't the chance for minute. something greater than what is If we can find the time and now inspire us to make the willingness for the discussion, leap-ask for the date, try for a the chat, maybe even just the promotion, offer the ring? If shared glance, maybe a lot 
is an intimidating idea which did happen, the things we all to make what can be a critical yes to all of that, with all that it more things could happen, both seems to assume one very large know about. How about the misstep in the search for a could mean both good and bad, good and bad, I suppose. Is this thing-that because humans almosts, the not quites? The partner-when faced with the why not yes to the easiest of a call to abandon logic and have been courting and mating guy you never met? The girl m·ost important instant in a things, the most simple of com­thought and values? No. We for so long, we must know how who passed by that day, relationship-the first time you mitments-a few moments of must always keep a hold on to do it by now. Look back at because you were in a hurry meet-we back away. We have conversation in a hallway or a what we know is right. But your teenage years of dating and didn't have time to talk? the most stringent rules imag­deep discussion of ER or that doesn't mean we should (which many of us have not yet The date that you never gave a inable about people we don't FRIENDS over a Spamburger. lose the ability to be sponta­left). and see if you were the chance? know well; we don't talk to Love reveals itself in many dif­nenu<> in the simplest of ways­all-knowing product of millen­It seems to me (in all my igno­them. You don't talk to some­ferent ways-we should be being friendly, being open-in nia of evolution. rance) that love is more than one you didn't come to the opening the doors for it-not the hope and desire of what 
What is this thing called dat­just a date for the prom. lt party with, you avoid that just leaving some open and might come through that newly ing? Relationships? Marriage? means more than a constant admiring look from the next closing the rest. opened door. There are books longer than study partner, and even more table in South, and, to the Does any of this answer any the tax code which contain than just a physical pleasure. It lament of both sexes (how questions? Ask any? Maybe­more theories than O.J.'s envelopes a mystery of our many times have we heard maybe not. Part of it could be DANIEL MONTIEL defense team about these lives, the desire we all have not this), you didn't call. seen simply as, oh, I don't Graduate Student things, and God knows I don't to be alone, to share some of Doesn't the most crucial time know, the ramblings of one stu­Department ofChemistry and know them all. But I do know our heart and our soul with in finding your best friend, your dent who's feeling kinda lonely Biochemistry what I see and feel when the another who wants only to do future spouse, or your archene­tonight and never quite figured 14th of February rolls around, the same with us. It is totally my come in the first words that out the whole dating thing. Or, 


Telecommunications Act amounts to censorship 
Last Friday. I joined much of the Internet by Painting my pages Black. Here's why: 
Thursday, President Clinton signed into law the Telecommunications Act of 1996. The majority of this bill is awash with congressional-speak, a language no sane man nor woman can under­stand, concerned with corporate merg-
Matthew Apple 
ers and deregulating the cable indus­try. The subject of controversy were two small articles tacked on by avid censorship fans on Capitol Hill: one article dictates the addition of the spe­cial "V-chip" into all new television sets produced in the U.S., the other calls itself the "Communications Decency Act" and bans from electronic trans­mission all "indecent" images and words. 
The avowed intent of both additional provisions is to prevent children from witnessing acts of violence and depravi­ty through the media, as if they do not witness enough of them in person (or are the victims of them) each day in this country. 
The American Civil Liberties Union has already sought a restraining order and promises to bring the law before the Supreme Court to challenge its con­stitutionality. The government has until Wednesday, February 14th, to file writ­ten arguments before U. S. District Judge Ronald Blackwater rules on the case. Until a court case decides the out­come of the law, everyone who "breaks" the law is subject to prosecu­tion, which in this case means the government will attempt to fine the originators of "indecent" material $250,000 and send them to prison for two years. 

Internet users protested by blacking out their page backgrounds all day Friday and Saturday, and numerous anti-censorship websites sprang up instantly, with more arriving by the hour. Some sites, such as Penthouse, have already taken down their pages in anticipation. 
The major problem here is that law­makers haven't the foggiest notion about the nature of the world wide web. It is not a form of medium that one single country can regulate. Webusers can use anonymous servers, or bounce their email literally across the globe as many times as they want. They can access any site from any country in the world within seconds, and each country has its own "obsceni­ty" laws. There is practically no way the U.S. government can enforce this law. 
Frankly, I'm not yet ready to declare this law a complete and total travesty of justice. With the wording altered it might work. As it stands, under the def­initions of "indecent," "suggestive," "lewd," and any number of other words which art-lover Jesse Helms has a great tendency to use, the Venus de Milo and Michaelangelo's David and many other great Classical and Renaissance works are banned from the internet. 
Any and all sites which discuss sexual education or sexually transmitted dis­eases are banned. Abortion sites are likewise banned, whether it be infor­mation on how to get or merely infor­mation on what it is. All sites about safe sex are banned. Basically, any site with the word "sex" or other indecent words or ·naked human figures in it is subject to censorship. 
The reasoning responsible for this internet censorship is also responsible for the "V-chip" idea. There's a way to prevent your kids from watching vio­lent programming on TV -it's called the "off' button. You just press it, and, zooop, there goes the nasty, bad images. If this calls for a little more parental supervision while children watch TV, well, isn't it about time that parents started paying attention to their kids instead of buying them toys and pretending that means love? 
Parents buy their kids their own com­puters and stick the things in the kids' bedrooms. Many parents haven't got a clue how to operate a computer or what the internet can do; the kids know more than their parents because they're willing to learn, and the parents do nothing because they're too scared 
by something new. 
Parents don't realize that programs 
exist which will block out certain sites 
to kids, or that one can even lock a 
computer using either a password or a 
simple key on the hard drive. But I 
guess most parents are too scare to 
admit they don't know as much as their 
kids, so they react the only way they 
think they can -by illegally seizing 
control. 

In a March 1995 interview on PBS, 
Newt Gingrich himself admitted that 
this aet was "probably illegal under our 
Constitution." According to the United 
Nations Declaration of Human Rights, 
"Everyone has the right to freedom of 
opinion and expression; this right in­
cludes freedom to hold opinions with­
out inference and seek, receive, and 
impart information and ideas through any media and regardless of frontiers." 
lt is fairly obvious to anyone, in­cluding the Tipper Gores and Jesse Helms of Congress, that the Communications Decency Act of 1996, by issue of its poorly-worded defini­tions, constitutes censorship and viola­tion of both the Bill of Rights and the UN Declaration of Human Rights. 
It should also be clear to Internet users that simply turning our pages black will do nothing. What we need to do is flood our congressmen and con­gresswomen with tons and tons of mail, preferably all sent by email to be iron­
ic. Now is the time to act, not to overre­act -that time comes later, in the worst-case scenario. Hopefully, if we give the ACLU the supports it needs. there need be no worst-case scenario. 
In deference to the free-thinking spir­it of the CDA, I have reserved a special Anti-Censorship page on my own home­page. Be warned: this page will contain a few graphic images and song lyrics which some may consider "vulgar" or simply "uncouth" and most definitely "unPC." I do this not because I particu­larly approve of juvenile pantings over naked women and men, but because I can do it. It is my right, as a U.S. citizen and as a human being. 
In the meantime, I shall continue sending emails to my friends using whatever foul profane language I so choose, and I urge you all to do the same. It's nobody's damn business what we talk about to our friends and colleagues, whether by phone, in pub­lic, in private or by email. 
Contact Matthew Apple. a creative writing grad student at Notre Dame, at matthew. t. apple.1@nd. edu. Visit his webpage at http://www.nd.edu/-map­ple. Protest and survive. 
ACCENT 
page 9 Wednesday, February 14, 1996 
Seniors' 'Plaza Suite' a sweet treat 
Class of '96 performs Neil Simons romance oriented comedy, just in time for Valentines Day 
A
By SARAH CASH ORE sweethearts, Jesse Kiplinger, A.o.sistant An:ent Editor now a successful Hollywood producer, and Muriel Tate, a I, Valentine's Day: the New Jersey housewife. The annual celebration of 1-hilarious efforts of Norma and J-v-e, LOVE. It there-Hoy Hubley are examined in ore seems appropriate Act Three as the Hubleys that the Senior Class Play, Neil attempt to persuade daughter Simon's "Plaza Suite," should Mimsey, who has locked herself optm on this holiday d1wot11d to in the bathroom, to attend her tlw most complex of human own wedding. emotions. "Plaza Suite" is a While no character appears thrne-act examination of love in more than one act, the acts which, according to student are connected thematically as director Peter Gandolfo, will each explores the intricacies of lead audience members to modern relationships. Gandolfo reevaluate tlwir own relation-notes, "All three acts tell a dif­ships as they watch alternately ferent story about relationships poignant and humorous rela-between men and women. They tionships unfold on stage. all have elements of comedy, 
In reviving the tradition of the drama, and romance, but each Senior Class Play, Gandolfo se-seems to emphasize one ele­lnctmi "Plaza Suite" mainly be-ment specifically." cause of its comedic appeal. Gandolfo describes the Senior While the play focuses on the Class production of "Plaza relationships bt~tween mature, Suite" as "a play without a middle-agnd characters, the home," while cast member Liza eleven st~nior actors are effec-Nykiel calls it "Campus View on tively able to portray characters stage." The relevance of these who are doser to their parents' comments is readily apparent agns than their own. when one learns that until 
Simon's come-------------S u n d a y , dy is written in 'Th · · · rehear~als had
thrill~ distinct e semor sptnt been held in acts linked by also extends to apartments, thei_r eom.m.on the more important dorm rooms,
sett1ng, Su1te and various 71 1J of New objective of the play: to lounges across York's Plaza raise money for class-campus, and 
Hotel. The lirst ' that all the fur-net revolves mate Mandy Abdo, who niture and around a cou-was injured in an auto props were do­pie, Karen and 'd t l t t , nated by the 
Sam Nash, eelr.-aCCI en as semes er. student actors hrating their themselves. tWIHlty-fifth anniversary by Nykiel and roommate Brandi rnturning to the hotel in which Wilson, who plays Karen Nash, they sptmt tlwir honeymoon. contributed their couch and A1:t Two focuses on a reunion chair, while cast member David lwtween former high school Harris, who delivers each of his 
seventeen words with studied 


The Observer/ Brandon Candura 

Anne Cordero and Scott Johnson get ready for their performance in Neil Simon's 'Plaza Suite.' 
perfection, donated his bed. Assorted lamps and tables were brought by other cast members, and the cast's costuming is equally resourceful. 
In addition to hauling as­sorted pieces of furniture to Washington Hall, the cast and crew have been rehearsing four times a week for the past month. Some members of the cast, including Charlie Krans, who appeared in last semes­ter's production of "Six Degrees of Separation," have acting experience, but as Gandolfo says, "A lot of us are doing things we've never done before." Commenting that the play is "intrinsically funny," Harris observes that "the way a lot of people are playing their roles really brings them to life. It brings the play ofT the paper really well." 
While Harris says that work­ing on a play is a much greater time eommitment than most people realize, in keeping with the spirit of the play, cast and crew have truly enjoyed them­selves while working on "Plaza Suite." As Wilson notes, "This is probably the last time we'll get to do something like this, before law school or med school or grad school. This is our last ehance before the real world." Nykiel recalls that several members of the cast and crew first met while acting in the Freshman Four One-Act plays three years ago. "We've known a lot of each other since fresh­man year-it's really interest­ing to see how much we've changed." 
Initiated, organized, and pro­duced entirely by seniors, "Plaza Suite" is definitely char­acterized by a senior spirit, and Gandolfo hopes seniors and underclassmen alike will come to see their friends bring the humor of Neil Simon to life. The senior spirit also extends to the more important objective of the play: to raise money for class­mate Mandy Abdo, who was in­jured in an accident last semes­ter. Gandolfo says the class hopes to raise $500· in the two nights that "Plaza Suite" will play at Washington Hall. 
In addition to raising money for Mandy, Gandolfo says he hopes "to have started a new tradition which will hopefully eontinue in the future." Support a important cause, share Neil Simon's interpretation of mod­ern love, and share in the be­ginning of a new tradition. 
The Senior Class Production of "Plaza Suite" will run tonight and Thursday night at Washington Hall. Tickets for the 7:30 performances may be purchased for $3 at the LaFortune Info Desk and at Washington Hall thirty minutes before each performance 

• .;,;:;~IIOMORE liTERARY fESTIVAl PREVIEW 
Sherwood moves on to 'greener' pastures 
s 
By KRISTA NANNERY ground-breaking work for her time; she argued for Accent Editor female independence, citizenship and the vote. Her life story isn't a happy one; her father was an alco­outh Bend, Indiana is well-known for a couple holic and she attempted suicide. Sherwood adds and of things: three universities, a hall of fame, amends to an already woeful life, creating a work of some Studebakers. In its time, it has probably which Newsweek writes, "Sherwood's had a number of celebrities of some sort or Wollstonecraft is a lurid creation, subject to horrors another call it home. piled on horrors, not only beaten by her father but 
It's time to add another one to the ------------rejected by her mother and sexually list, an author no less. And although abused by her nurse ... the tale told born in Washington D.C., she cur-'Ilove my job. I have in "Vindication" is deeply convinc­rently ealls South Bend home. a job, I have a ing ... " 
Frances Sherwood attended house, I have friends. Such reviews helped "Vindication" 
Ho~ard Univ~rsity a~d n?w te~ches I'm not going sorry. • become a Book-of-the-Month Club wntmg at Indmna Umvers1ty at South ' selection as well as a finalist for the Bend. He1; latest novel, "Green," tells National Book Critics Cirde Award. the tale of Zoe, a teenager growing Frances Sherwood Sherwood herself is a born sur­up in the Monetery Bay area in 1950s on South Bend vivor. ller father committed suicide 
California. Although Zoe wants to be when she was 17. She also lost her a beatnik and pass her time in------------first child, but did go on to raise smokey cafes, she spends more time with her al-three more. A number of years ago, she was diag­coholic mother and strict Mormon father. nosed with manic depression. In between all this, Sherwood's story follows Zoe over the next three she managed to squeeze in writing courses, winning years as she Iiveg, loves and marries. Eventually, several prizes for her short stories including two Zoe finds herself in a series of alternative communi-O'Henry Awards. She is also the recipient of an NEA ties, none of which offer what she is looking for. grant. Mademoiselle ealls "Green" an "affecting, intense As of yet, Sherwood's success has not given her and surprise filled" novel. reason to leave South Bend. She told the South Bend 
Tribune, "I love my job. I have a job, I have a house, 
Sherwood's first novel, "Vindication" tells the I have friends. I'm not going, sorry." story of British feminist Mary Wollstonecraft who wrote "A Vindication of the Rights of Women" in the Frances Sherwood will be appearing tonight at 8 
Photo courtesy SLF late 1700s. Wollstonecraft's "Vindication" was a p.m. at the Hesburgh Library Auditorium. 
page 10 Wednesday, February 14, 1996
ACCENT 


All this talk about moving Grab-n-Go and getting us another ATM machine is really starting to get us down. Forget the issues. Forget all the political mumble jumble. Face it, the chances of anyone actually accomplishing most of their platform by this time next year is pretty slim.. So rather than getting mired in debates, we got up close and personal with Miller/Murray and Mclnerney/Wolsfe/d and asked all the important stuff. The stuff that could make--or break--your vote. May the best team win. 


By KRISTA NANNERY Accent Editor 
E 
lections are boring. Everyone uses big words and makes big promises that cloud the real issues. Pretty soon, most peo­ple lose interest and vote for whoever has the best campaign poster or whoever actually made the effort to stop by their dorm room. 
This is a pretty pessimistic view of the electoral process. But when only 3831 students on a campus of 7636 make the effort to check off a box, you've got to realize that no one is very excited about student government. 
Perhaps this is because we really don't 
know the people in student government. 
They're just a couple of names that 
make the front page of The Observer 
every once and a while. If they're lucky, 
they've made Security Beat at least once 
during their time here at Notre Dame. 
In an effort to help you get to know the 
candidates, we asked Miller and Murray 
and Mcinerney and Wolsfeld a bunch of 
really interesting questions that had 
nothing to do with politics. Hopefully, 
our questions will help you sort through 
the rigmarole and point the way to the 
candidate of your dreams. 
To begin with, we were very disap­
pointed to discover that not one of the 
candidates has ever purchased anything 
from an infomercial or home shopping 
channel. How they ever expect to relate 
to the rest of us-bourgeois to bour­
geois-is beyond us. (It could be because 
every single one of them hails from the 
Midwest.) However, although they're not 
into buying things from TV, both plat­forms did voice a preference for boxers over briefs, even Megan. (Note that we would definitely not be surprised to find at least one of the candidates sporting tighty-whiteys.) 

As far as Ben & Jerry's flavors go, Matt and Ryan (that's Mcinerney and Wolsfeld to you) seem pretty unified on the Cherry Garcia front. The 
'To begin with, we were 
very disappointed to discover that not one of the candidates has ever pur­chased anything from an infomercial or home shopping channel.' 
Miller/Murray ticket went for Chocolate Fudge Brownie and Cookie Dough respectively. 
This time last year, Tito was a big favorite among all the Student Government candidates. Boy how things change. This year, Megan was the only Tito fan; the guys all went for Janet. 
We don't know how many pillows and mattresses Seth Miller owns, but accord­ing to him, he pulls the tags off his sleeping necessities on a daily basis. At this point, we think it is important to note that Seth Miller was the only candi­date interviewed in uniform. It also took him the longest to decide how he felt about Leap Year, a real tough question. (He finally decided he liked it; everybody else came to that same conclusion in about five seconds.) 
Who could ever forget this semester's Disney World Dinner in the hallowed halls of NOH? Megan Murray can't. That's her favorite dining hall theme meal. Seth and Matt both voted for Circus Lunch, while Ryan chose those romantic candle light dinners. Speaking of theme nights at the dining hall, we here at Accent must be living in a cave because we missed Spam Night over at South Dining Hall. Three out of four candidates admit to savoring some Spam every so often (Not Megan). 
The candidates were split straight down the middle when it came to Captain Kangaroo and Mister Rogers. Seth and Ryan both chose the Captain. Megan and Matt went for Mister Rogers. We're not too sure what this means. Their astrological signs don't help much either. Ryan and Matt are both Cancers. Megan is Aries and Seth is a Scorpio. If we were astrologists, maybe this would help us. But we're not, so sorry. 
Honestly, besides Boxers and infomer­cials, there really weren't that many areas where the candidates all gave the same answer. They did all agree that Sean Connery was the best James Bond ever. And as far as the David Spade/Dana Carvey debate goes (bet you didn't even know there was one), again the platforms were split right down the middle. 
At this point, we decided to ask our three most important questions. We really needed to come to some conclu­sion or another. Our questions could really have the ability to make or break the vote. Thus, in order to determine who was more issue oriented and who was more fun oriented, we asked, "When you read the paper, do you read news or do you skip straight to sports?" Seth and Megan decided that most peo­ple-including themselves-go straight to sports. Ryan and Matt felt that most people read the news first and eventual­ly go on to sports. 
Our second question was pretty easy: "Tastes great or less filling?" Ryan was the only one to answer "Less filling." At a svelte 170 pounds, Ryan obviously doesn't need to watch his weight. 
We felt our third and final question had some real psychological signifi­cance. It was deceptively simple: "Who is your favorite Brady?" Seth and Megan must relate in some way or another to the middle child syndrome; they both chose Jan. Ryan chose Tiger. Matt chose Cindy. We're not even going to attempt to decipher the responses of Mcinerney/Wolsfeld. 
In the end, our brains were fried. We had all these answers, but there was really no connection to be made between any of them. No one surprised us. No one really made us laugh. No one could really name their favorite Muppet. Some people even thought our questions were too hard. This disappoints us. If our questions were too hard, we'd like to see how they'd answer real serious questions about Grah-n-Go and stuff. The thought frightens us almost as much as Spam Night at South Dining Hall. 
Joey Crawford contributed to this story. 
------~-------l
ACCENT
Wednesday, February 14, 1996 pagell ' I 

This ~4, Z'~, do something really meaningful for that special (or not-so-special) someone in your life. Make a mix tape that shows--in words and music--how you really feel. Get it all out, your needs, your wants, your love (or hatred). For your 1/~ 4, Z'~ enjoyment, Accent has put together a selection of mix tapes guaranteed to help you get your message across. 
We promise it'll be much more efficient than candy or flowers. Really. 
~apfuf11~ :t Z'~ t6 aft~ tpUt, ~aft tpUt ~-~ 





7M "1 M.te ~· t;a tUd ~ HUf tile· 
~" 


"Brilliant Disguise" 
Bruce Springsteen "I Used To Love ller (But I I lad To Kill Her)" 
Guns 'N' Hoses "You Oughta Know" Alanis Morrisette "I lead Lik1~ A I tole" Nine Inch Nails "Add It Up" Violent 1-'emmes "llit The Hoad, Jack" 
Hay Charles "I Love You. But You're Boring" 
Beautiful South "These Boots Are Made For Walking" 
Nancy Sinatra "I Will Survive" 
Gloria Gaynor "Don't Come Around Here No More" 
Tom Petty "Goodbye To You" Scandal "II' Looks Could Kill" lieart 
"S@#t List" 
L7 "I Said I Loved You But I Lied" 
Michael Bolton "Explode And Make Up" Sugar 

t'Jet~t 
7M "1 c:Um 't eu.e«­
~~~, ~ tn ~Hapz-, d«t 1~~· 7~.At!k '8~" 

"Right Here, Hight Now" 
Jesus Jones "Do Me!" Bel Biv Devoe "I Want Your Sex" 
George Michael "Let's Get Physical" Olivia Newton-John "Justify My Love" 
Madonna "Why Don't We Get Drunk (and Screw) ?" 
Jimmy Buffett "Why Don't We Do It On The Hoad ?" 
The Beatles "Me So llorny" 2 Live Crew "Love In An Elevator" Aerosmith "Closer" Nine Inch Nails "I Wanna Sex You Up" Color Me Badd "Let's Talk About Sex" 
Salt 'N' Pepa "You Shook Me All Night Long" 
AC/DC "If I Was Your Girl" Janet Jackson "Let's Just Get Naked" Joan Osborne "Young Lust" Aerosmith ''I'm on Fire" Bruce Springsteen "Touch me" Samantha Fox "Maneater" Hall & Oates 


LtWe, ,4~ 


7M "~ a~U ;i«4t u~1~to­/UW4 eM ~-tJ«t ~addaltt ~~ ~~~ 

"Be My Yoko Ono" 
Barenaked Ladies "I've Got You Under My Skin" 
Frank Sinatra "Melt With You" Modern English "It Had To Be You" Harry Connick, Jr. "Unbeliev~ble" EMF "Rollin' With The Homies" Coolio "Crazy" Aerosmith "Can't Fight It" Bob Mould "Can't Smile Without You" Barry Manilow "Crazy For You" Madonna "You Were Meant For Me" 
Jewel "Total Eclipse Of The Heart" Bonnie Tyler 
"Wonderwall" Oasis "Just Like Heaven" Cure "AJmost Paradise" Mike Reno and Ann Wilson 


7M "'3f/at ~ 

HtaiVUf me WJM 
~? 1 ttwe ~ 4fJ, meed 1ma<te~ ta{u~~t&ce ~j«4t~~" ~~ 7ape 
"I Only Want To Be With You" Bootie and the Blowfish "A Groovy Kind of Love" Phil Collins "I Will Always Love You" Whitney Houston "Take My Breath Away" Berlin "In Your Eyes" Peter Gabriel "Unchained Melody" Righteous Brothers "Faithfully" Journey "Can't Help Falling In Love" Elvis Presley "Going To The Chapel" Dixie Cups "Wonderful Tonight" Eric Clapton "The Greatest Love Of All" Whitney Houston 'Til Back You Up" Dave Matthews Band "On Bended Knee" 
Boyz II Men "Tonight I Celebrate My Love For You" 
Roberta Flack and James Ingram "All I Want Is You" U2 


7M "~ ;i«4t ~me.1u4t 
4-it ilf, "'"! 'ttUUH ad­
~to-~ta{u 
H<J.H,-4ttlp ad-ta/4 
adD«t ~ ~eo, ~~f.tlitt ~" 


"Everybody Hurts" HEM "Nothing Lasts" Matthew Sweet "So Cruel" 
U2 

"All Out Of Love" 
Air Supply 

"With Or Without You" 
U2 "Boys Don't Cry" 
Cure 

"Far Behind" 
Candlebox 

"Always Something There 
To Remind me" 
Naked Eyes 

"I Can't Make You Love Me" 
Bonnie Raitt 

"What It Takes" 
Acrosmith 

"Can't Stand Losing You" 
The Police 

"All I Need" 
Motley Crue 

"You Don't Send Me 
Flowers" 
Neil Diamond 

"You've Lost. That Loving 
Feeling" 
Highteous Brothers 

"Love On The Hocks" 
Neil Diamond 

"Pictures OfYou" 
The Cure 

"You Blues" 
Juliana Hatfield 

"Wish You Were Here" 
Pink Floyd 


Graphics: Chris Mullins, Brian Meyer Songs: Krista Nannery, Mike Ruma, Dave Tyler and a whole lot of people on The Observer staff 


page 12 The Observer • SPORTS Wednesday, February 14, 1996 
• COLLEGE BASKETBAll 

Iowa wins at Ann Arbor for first time in 15 years 
Associated Press 
ANN ARBOR, Mich. 
Russ Millard had 18 points and a career-high 15 rebounds to lead No. 19 Iowa to a 62-55 victory over Michigan on Tuesday night, the Hawkeyes' first road win over the Wolverines in 15 years. 
Andre Woolridge had 20 points for the Hawkeyes (18-6, 7-5 Big Ten), who won just their second conference road game this season. 
Iowa's last win in Ann Arbor was a 75-58 victory in 1981. 

Michigan's Maurice Taylor scored 16 of his 20 points in the second half as the Wolverines {15-9, 5-6) tried to rally back from a 16-point deficit. 
Instead, they lost for the fifth time in six games. Michigan also lost its second straight home game after a 15-game winning streak at Crisler Arena. 
Maceo Baston added 12 points for the Wolverines. 
Iowa, which led 28-17 at halftime in the low-scoring, sloppily played game, opened up its biggest lead at 38-22 when Millard scored on a feed from Mon'ter Glasper with 13:51 to go. 
Michigan got the deficit under double figures with 9:26 remaining when Baston scored on a putback to make it 43-34. 
But the closest the Wolverines could get was a five-point deficit on three occasions, the last when Taylor made his first 3-pointer of the year to leave his team down 57-52 with 59 seconds left. 
Millard and Woolridge combined to make 3 of 4 free throws and Woolridge scored on a drive to restore the double-digit lead before Michigan's Dugan Fife made a 3-pointer at the final buzzer. 
Iowa shot 43 percent for the game and needed a 53 percent second half to do that. Michigan shot 36 percent. 
The Hawkeyes. who lead the Big Ten and rank fourth nationally in rebound­ing margin, enjoyed a 46-27 advantage on the boards. 
The Hawkeyes won despite just six points from leading scorer Jess Settles, who fouled out with 6:53 remaining. Iowa also was playing without third­leading scorer Chris Kingsbury. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. ro 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. 
Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
Classifieds 
NOTICES 
You're running out of time. So, do the right thing and go see Spike Lee's "CLOCKERS" at Cushing on Friday and Saturday at 8:00 and 
10:30 
SPRING BREAK! With only 1 week to live, DON'T BLOW tTl Organize group-TRAVEL FREE Jamaica/Cancun $399 Bahamas $359 Florida $1 09 FREE INFO packet. Call Sunsptash 
1-800-426-7710 
Cancun & Jamaica Spring Break Specials! 111% Lowest Price Guarantee! 7 Nights Air & Hotel 
From $429! Save $100 On 
Food/Drinks! http://www.spring­
breaktravel.com 
1-800-678-6386 
Spring Break! Panama City! 8 Days Room With Kitchen $1191 Walk to Best Bars! 7 Nights In Key West $259! Cocoa Beach Hilton (Great Beaches-Near Disney) $169! Daytona $139! http://www.spring­breaktravel.com. 1-800-678-6386 
HEY-Come and see ... STOMPER BOB & THE 4x4s TONIGHT -10:00pm at Bridget's 
ILOST & FOUND I 
Found: Sunglasses between Badin and the bookstore on 214. Call x1678. 
LOST: gold rope chain necklace 
somewhere on North Quad or by 
the JACC on either 2110 or 2111. If 
found PLEASE call x1334. 
WANTED 
IMMEDIATE OPENING 
PART TIME SALES POSITION 
NIGHTS AND WEEKENDS 
$5.00 PER HOUR 
APPLY FAN FAIR, UNIVERSITY 
PARK MALL 
Driving to New Orleans for Spring 
Break and need someone to share 
the ride with x0979 
IndianapolisI!II If you are going to or through Indianapolis this weekend for JPW, I need a ride, please. Greg x3797 
Students needed to deliver the 
Chicago Tribune to rooms in their 
dorms. Call 684-4302 for more 
information. 
???????????????????? NEED A PLACE FOR THE SUM­MER? GREAT APARTMENT TO SUBLET-TWO BATH. TWO BED­ROOMS, ETC. AVAILABLE JUNE -AUGUST. CALL 273-1738. ???????????????????? 
Help! Anyone who has recordings 
or pictures (or negatives) from the 
Billy Joel lecture please call Mitch 
Silver (I played a song on stage) 
277-2174 
EX ND STAFFER & WIFE WISH TO RENT APT. FOR SUMMER. NON-SMOKERS, NO PETS, REF­ERENCES. CALL (941 )425-4404 OR WRITE 135 LAKEVIEW, MUL­BERRY FL 33860 
BIG EAST TICKETS WANTED TOP$$$ PAID (800)269-5849 
CRUISE SHIPS NOW HIRING­Earn up to $2,000+/month working on Cruise Ships or Land-Tour com­panies. World travel. Seasonal & full-time employment available. No experience necessary. For more information call 1-206-971-3550 ext.C55843 
NATIONAL PARKS HIRING­Positions are now available at National Parks, Forests & Wildlife Preserves. Excellent benefits + bonuses! Call: 1-206-971-3620 ext.N55845 
TEACH ENGLISH ABROAD ­Make up to $25-$45/hr. teaching basic conversational English abroad. Japan, Taiwan, and S.Korea. Many employers provide room & board + other benefits. No teaching background or Asian lan­guages required. For more informa­tion call: (206)971-3570 ext.J55843 
THE STUDENT UNION BOARD 
IS ACCEPTING 
APPLICATIONS!!! If you are interested in: planning concerts, running the movie series, designing cultural arts events, bringing in comedians and lectures, planning Antostal, the Sophomore Literary Festival, or Collegiate Jazz Festival, SUB WANTS YOU!!!! In addition, SUB needs controllers to help handle money, graphic designers to create advertising, and anyone interested in PR or rela­tions. SUB is the largest organization on campus with opportunities for everyone, INTERESTED??? Come get an application in 201 Lafortune or call1-7757!!! APPLICATIONS DUE FEB 16 
FOR SALE 
Pioneer AM/FM Stereo-Amp­
Receiver with Dual Tape Deck. 
1 00 Watts of tunes! Call John at 
232-2955 today! 
JUDAY CREEK gem. 
Well-maintained, 4-bedroom ranch 
with a 17 x 25 home office 
& 3-car garage. 
$154,900. 
Call Karen 272-3653. 
'89 BERETTA, 
V-6, auto, stereo/cassette, console, 
cruise, front-wheel drive, air. 
Excellent condition, new front tires 
& exhaust system, and new shocks. 
Call654-7439 (local call). 
GORGEOUS RED 1989 MAZDA 
RX-7 CONVERTIBLE, LOADED, 
LOW MILES, MINT CONDITION, 
GARAGE KEPT, FACULTY 
OWNED-$14,500-234-6332. 
1991 DODGE COLT ••• MINT CONDITION ... NEW TIRES -NEW BRAKES NEW BATTERY, AIR I AUTO 2/DOOR HATCH ­ONE OWNER $4,800 OR BEST OFFER 259­1864 
DATA/FAX MODEM 4 SALE Pract Periphs---€xtrnl 14.4 & serial cable. Bought for $120 2 mos ago, sell for $70. Call Dave x4010 
TICKETS 
NEED: Thurs. Macbeth ticket. Will buy or trade for Fri. night. 4-2107 
FOR RENT 
Rm for Sum/Fall '96, 5-min drive 
$250 incl. uti! & extras! 1-4809 or 
232-7175 

THE POTATO HOUSE 8 BED­ROOM FOR NEXT SCHOOL YEAR ALSO 3-4BEDROOM HOMES CLOSE TO ND GOOD AREA 2773097 
Irish Co. B&B Registry Stay at the "MOOSE KRAUSE HOUSE" or other approved homes. JPW -Grad. -Football games 219-277-7003 
ROOMS FOR RENT IN PRIVATE 
HOME. VERY CLOSE TO ND. IDEAL FOR SMC-ND EVENTS. 
272-6194. 
TURTLE CREEK SUMMER APT SUBLET 1 BDRM IN 2BDRM APT PARTLY FURNISHED $270/MO +1/2 ELECTRIC. JUNE THRU AUGUST CALL JQHN@634-4131 
MCKINLEY TERRACE & MISHAWAKA 3 BDRM HOMES. AVAIL. NOW.272-6551 
BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY 219-291-7153 
HOMES FOR RENT 232-2595 
Perfect for 2nd Semester Furnished Student Apts Heat included -large 1 bedrm, $345 -small 1 bedrm, $270 755 South Bend Ave-1 blk west of NDAve deposit, references 1-800-582-9320 
PERSONAL 

0c0c0c0c0c0c0c0c0c0c0 
QUALITY COPIES, QUICKLY!!! THE COPY SHOP LaFortune Student Center Phone 631-COPY 
0c0c0c0c0c0c0c0c0c0c0 
I need a ride to Cincinnati this wknd. Joe x3790 
Why, oh why, is the news editor so petulant? Take your abuse like a man .... 
It would be equally as disappointing if something equally as unfavorable were to appear in the classifieds, or at your home address, hmmm­mm... DAVE? 
Can you dunk? SportsChannel, TCI Cable and Notre Dame want to see you give up your best jam at the Michiana Slam Dunk Challenge, this Wednesday night at the Joyce Center Fieldhouse. Preliminary competition starts at six o'clock with the three winners being announced at the end of that evening's Irish women's basketball home contest. Those winners will return the follow­ing Wednesday and compete at halftime of the Irish men's basket­ball game for the title of Michiana's Best Jammer and a spot in the Slam Dunk finals at a CHICAGO BULLS HOME GAME. It's free for everyone to participate. For more information or to enter, call the Notre Dame Sports Promotions office at (219)631-6095. 
I give German lessons. Call273 3856 
The Orange Couch Club would like to thank EMILY LORD for a great night of music! 
Today is VDAY ... be original ... take your sweetie to the SENIOR CLASS PLAY 
7:30 at Washington Hall Neil Simon's "Plaza Suite" (It's a romantic comedy-much bet­ter choice than 9 Monkeys) 
HappyV-Day Sunshine! Love your friend The Ostrich 
Mateo Tu eres Ia luz de mi vida, mi solana en el invierno. Con Amor Archer's Bow 
sean, you are a dead man. 
HEY HOT BOY (FROM MORRIS­SEY) 
Are you tired? 'Cause. you have been RUNNING through our heads all day. Hope Cupid hits ya (in the butt). See ya at the Rock. 
Hey Big Boy It's Valentine's Day!!!!! GIMME SOME LOVIN' 
SENIORS SENIORS Bet you didn't know that John Giovacco Charlie Krantz Mairin Ocheltree Scott Johnson Ann Cordero David Harris Liza Nykiel Kara Spak Kaylee Lentine Brandi Wilson and Sarah Sanchez in addition to being very cool people are also very talented actors. Come see for yourself at the SENIOR CLASS PLAY Weds and Thurs 7:30 at Washington Hall Neil Simon's "Plaza Suite" JUST DO IT All proceeds to benefit the Mandy Abdofund 
VALENTINES 
Dear Jerry, 
I love you, and I'm always with you. 100% integrity always!! 
Love, Jordanna 
To my favorite East Coast guy­Destiny is what brought us together and love is what will keep us together. Happy Third Valentine's Day! I hope we have many more to come. I love you always honey! Your favorite "dumb" Midwesterner 
xoxo 

Amy Weiher -Happy Valentine's Day! This is the first of many to come. I can't wait to see you tonight! I Love You!! Love Always, Pat OH NO! I think I've fallen in love! Is that "clutch" or "key"? Happy Feb. 14 to my favorite letter! 
Kidde, You're the best little student assistant I've ever hadl -SH 
JAG, 

HAPPY VALENTINE'S DAY TO THE SWEETEST COOKIE IN THE BATCH. 
SEE YOU THIS WEEKEND. 
LOVE, MOM, DAD & PETEY 
If you like pina coladas and getting caught in the rain. If you're not into yoga, if you have half a bra1n. If you like walks at midnight on the dunes of the Cape, then I'm the lady you've looked for. Write to me and escape. P.O.Box 6229 
Hey Honey Bunny! 
Happy Valentine's Day! I hope everything goes well with your stuff today. I hope you're looking forward to tonight, and even more so to this Friday. I love you, love, pooh bear. 
*****•••••••••••••••••••••••• 
SEXY NICKERS, Happy Valentine's Day to the man I'm going to marry. Think 6/14/97! I LOVE YOU THE MOSTEST!! Your one and only-Mittens 
Happy Valentine's Day Ry! 
Its been a great year-This time the Colt is on me! Love ya, Nathalie 
I love you Tweedle-Dumb I can't wait for tonight. 
Dear Sweetest: I love waking up next to you and being by your side at the close of each day. I love the goals that we share in making each other happy. I love how you care for me and our family. I love our showers, slurpies and the, "no hands" thing while playing Kenny G. I love that you're my teddy bear and how we slay up late. I love this ring on my finger and alii that it means. 
Prett 

Are you an attractive young lady minus the attitude typical of most ND females? If so you are encouraged to apply to Saint Marys' study abroad program in Rome, Italy for either one or two semesters. -Concerned sophomore architects 
P.S: Arkies always erect the finest structures ... 
To my ladies in 322: It feels just like yesterday, but a whole year has past. So many memories we've had, so many times to remember. My only explanation for the time going by so fast Is that I flew off to Japan way back in September. So much has happened in a year, I don't know where 2 begin. Probably because of the sushi and drinking way too much beer. Time away from you all put a lot of things in perspective. Like who I am closest to and how life is like an elective. We often choose the easy class because we want to coast by, But the tougher ones make our minds soar and our hearts fly. It wouldn't have been right to put this ad in from 3000 miles away. I'm just really glad that I was here with you when Ross and Rachel finally got l'eid. One year down, countless to go. I'm sure we'll be together when we are gray and old. (end rhyme) To you and whoever reads this ad, don't forget your friends on Black Wednsday, because that special someone(s) is already in your life ... Love, Gibby 
JARVIS­I COULDN'T ASK FOR A SWEET­ER VALENTINE. I CHERISH THESE 8 MONTHS WE'VE SPENT TOGETHER AND LOOK FOR­WARD TO OUR FUTURE TOGETHER. I LOVE YOU !! ALWAYS, KIM 
Vote for the ticket with a woman on it. Please. 
Ring Around da Finger! Christine's going to the chapel! We love you Alright Party '96! 
sully-remember, you are a woman unlike any other ... follow the RULES & you will go far! 
Joseph O'Hannigan Thank you for being "Husband and Daddy SUREME"III We are one lucky family. All my love all my life, Mary:) 
To that sexy girl whose middle name is happy .... your mystery admirer 
To my dearest Virginia ... Who are you spooning with tonight? If there are any vacancies, let me know ... 
The Dude from the Mitre 
To Erin, Katherine and Marah; 
Even though none of you will ever sleep with me, I wanted to wish my fellow lonely hearts club members a Happy Valentine's Day ... 
Love, The 3am Caller 
Dear Kimberley, Vous et Nul Autre Forever HAPPY VALENTINE'S DAY! Love, John 
Roses are red Violets are blue I know Potter's Valentine But do you? 
Dear Alison/Simone, 
You are truly my 'Queen of Hearts.' 
Love, Alison 
JAR-
Have I told you how lucky I am to 
have you? I am. 
Love, TDS 
Sorry about the election, stall #4. 
At least you'll always have a "break­
fast" date. 
Why do I always leave before the 
good stuff happens? The 'Backer 
wasn't has as entertaining as Tyler 
re-experiencing his dinner. 
Krista loves her MLA handbook. 
Nannery: Happy Black 
Wednesday. Go out and make fun 
of cheesy couples for me while I'm 
on duty! I get to be cheap 
Thursday-it's been a while! 
McGrath 
p.s. Love those mix tapes 
Janel & Megan It was nice to visit with you last Thursday night. 
-Joe and Aaron 
Uda, Happy Valentine's Day! Love, JD 
Hey Treacy, Let's see if the Monarchs win any national championships. 
It's cold out here. -Irish syncro team (Sorry it's a little late) 
Meggan, They must have screwed up the alphabet. U and I were sup­posed to be together. 
Hey buckler, Good thing you weren't around your pad when the unfortunate incident took place. 

Wednesday, February 14, 1996 The Observer • SPORTS page 13 
• BOXING 
Morrison brings HIV issue to boxing forefront 
By TIM DAHLBERG 
Associated Pross 
LAS VEGAS 

A day after Tommy Morrison admitted testing positive for the AIDS virus, the referee in his bloody light with Lennox Lewis sought to calm his mind by tak­ing an AIDS test of his own. 
Boxing ol'ficials across the country, meanwhile, renewed calls for all states with boxing to test for Ill V in the wake of Morrison's test that shook the boxing world. 
"I hope we can get a bill passed in California before 
som·ething major happens in this state, before some docu­mented transmission occurs in a boxing ring," said Richard DeCuir, head of the California Athletic Commission. 
The confirmation Monday of Morrison's positive test prompt­ed referee Mills Lane to go to his doctor in Heno, Nev., and have blood drawn to make sure he didn't get the virus. 
Lane was the third man in the ring in Morrison's Oct. 7 loss to Lennox Lewis in Atlantic City, in which he was cut around both eyes in the second round and bled much of the way before the fight was finally stopped in the seventh round. 


"I had blood all over me," Lane said. "He bled all over me and everyone else." 
Lane, a state judge in Reno who has refereed 78 title lights, said he was unaware at the time that New Jersey was one of the many states that don't require boxers to take tests for the Ams virus. It is not known if Morrison had the virus at the time he fought Lewis. 
Lane said he was told by his doctor that there was only an infinitesimal chance he could have gotten the virus in the ring, but wanted to take the test just to make sure. 
"I've got a family. I've got a wife and two children," he said. ''I'm not really worried but it will make me feel better to know for sure." 
While Lane went in for an AIDS test, Lewis remained at his remote mountain retreat in Jamaica, where promoter Dino Duva said it was very difficult to reach him. 
Duva said Lewis is scheduled to be tested for AIDS next month in Britain as part of that country's requirements for his annual boxing license. 
"I assume that's what he will do," Duva said. "I don't think 
LOOKING TO DO SOMETHING DIFFERENT OVER SPRING BREAK? 
MONASTIC RETREAT 


at the Abbey of Gethsemani in Trappist, KY 
March 11-15, 1996 
Sign up in Library Office of Campus Minstry February 14-21 
For more details call 631-6777 
(Nv1PUS

Fr. Tom Gaughan, C.S.C. ~NISlRY 
he'll rush it. The risk if very small, from what I under­stand." 
Morrison, meanwhile, remained in seclusion in Oklahoma, waiting for results of a second set of tests taken Monday to confirm the Las Vegas test. The results of the latest test were expected Wednesday. 
His promoter, Tony Holden, said agents for Morrison and Magic Johnson were arranging a phone call between the two. 
Holden said it would likely be a personal discussion of how to deal with the illness and the media attention. 
"Magic is probably the best person to talk to him right now," Holden said. 
Former heavyweight champi­on Riddick Bowe said, however, that basketball and boxing are far apart when it comes to an HIV infected athlete being allowed to compete. 
"I think it's great for people like Magic Johnson to have the opportunity to come back and play basketball, doing what he does best," Bowe said. "But as far as boxing is concerned, unlike other sports, it's bloody and violent and the risk is far too great for fighters to con­tract the virus through physical contact. I would not light some­one who is HIV positive. It would just be too great a risk for me, my wife and children." 
The aftermath of Morrison's admission affected not only his former opponents and referees, but much of the boxing world as an outcry grew for mandato­ry AIDS testing of all boxers. 
Nevada's top boxing official said he will push to have other states begin testing like Nevada, which has tested some 2,100 boxers since beginning its AIDS program in 1988. 
Nevada is one of only a hand­ful of states that currently require AIDS testing. 
"We test about 200 to 300 boxers a year but there's another couple of thousand that aren't tested and are lighting in a blood sport in other states," Marc Ratner said. "It doesn't make sense. But sometimes it teaks something like this to shock the world. Maybe this will be a catalyst for the rest of the states." 
Ratner, who is president of the Association of Boxing Commissions, said he would push for mandatory testing at the association's annual meet­ing in June. 
"I will have a policy in place for the commission to vote on by April 1," said Dr. Jerry Rosenberg, the commission's physician. "By May 1, it should be required." 
"My belief is that it goes beyond referees and boxers and into any part of life," Lane said. "If a person is carrying a disease or a virus that impacts other people, then that person 
-· 

owes it to those people to cough it up." 

Friday, February 16 
8:00 PM Moreau Center/O'Laughlin Auditorium Student Tickets: $4; Adults: S1 0 
Tickels on sale at the Saint Mary's College box office, O'Laughlin Auditorium, 9-S, Mon.-Fri. Visa, Discover, MasterCard: 219/284-4626 
page 14 The Observer • SPORTS Wednesday, February 14, 1996 
• fOOTSAU 

Infante ready to take over reins for the Colts 
By STEVE HERMAN 
Associated Press 
INDIANAPOLIS 
Ted Marchibroda, still hoping to land another NFL job him­self, gave an enthusiastic endorsement Tuesday to the candidacy of Lindy Infante as his successor with the Indianapolis Colts. 
Marchibroda, who coached the Colts the past four seasons, was let go last week after he turned down a one-year offer at the same salary he earned in 1995, when he guided the team to the AFC championship game. 
Infante, the former Green Bay coach who was out of football for three years before he was lured back as the Colts offen­sive coordinator last season, met again on Tuesday with director of football operations Bill Tobin. 
"I would assume he's the front-runner," Marchibroda said. "I think he will be a fine coach. He's had the experience, he's been there before, and he 
DAYTONA BEACH 
STEAMBOAT VAIL/BEAVER CREEK HILTON HEAD ISLAND 
' PER PERSON DEPENDING ON DESTINATION I BREAK DATES /LENGTH Of STAY. 
•~sc:n::>~su.Ncll•s·E 
TOLL Fll5'5 IN~ATJON & .ft'SER\'ATIONS 
DIIUIIF DYER TO IIIII WEI liTE AT: 


PARIS $229 AMSTERDAM S2B9 FRANHFURT $229 ROME $309 
fms are from Jndimpolis. m~ ma• bm• 11111 purchase. fares da Dol include federal lues au passeDQ!f Jacifi~es charges.mhicb mJolal between SIBS and SlUS. depending oa 11le deslinatiDII.IDI do tile• include departure charges paid dired1q Ia lo foreig~gonmments.lllhic~ tal tolar between S3.0D and $60.01. lnll SludeniiD maq be re· quired. fares msujecl 11 cbange. leslrictioos applq. 
@.liiifijII Travel 
~ 
CIEE: Council on International Educational Exchange 
Do lbe Heb: blip://DJtDm.ciee.orglclslclsbome.l!lm 
1-800-2-COUNCIL 
•: [1-800·226-8624] 
did a fine job this year." 

Tobin said he did not plan to talk with any other possible candidates. 
"I think it's going to get done," he said. "There's still no hang-ups. We've had the scout­ing combine staring us in the face, and that's slowed us some. It's past the negotiating stage. He knows we want him. 
"I don't know if it will be tomorrow or later this week, but it's going to get done," Tobin said. 
Infante was coach of the Packers from 1988-91. He was the NFL coach of the year in 1989, when quarterback Don Majkowski -who later played for the Colts -led the league in passing yardage. 
In Infante's first season with the Colts, the team averaged 
307.4 yards per game, its high­est since 1987, and scored 331 points, the most since 1988. Jim Harbaugh, who even before the season described Infante's offensive scheme as "quarter­back-friendly," became the NFL's highest rated quarter­back and was the Colts' first player at that position named to the Pro Bowl since Bert Jones in 1976. 
Infante also was offensive coordinator and quarterbacks coach with the Cleveland Browns, whose Baltimore­bound owner may be giving Marchibroda a call. The former Colts coach, however, said he hasn't received any solid offers -from Browns owner Art Modell or anyone else. 
"I really haven't heard any­thing," he said. "I talked to a few people at the scouting com­bine but nothing of great signif­icance." 
Modell has been given approval by the NFL to move his team from Cleveland to Baltimore, where it will take a new nickname. Marchibroda also coached the Colts for five years in Baltimore in the 1970s. 
The 64-year-old coach wouldn't say whether there is anything more to his possible return to Baltimore than just speculation. 
"At this point, I haven't heard anything," he said. 
One of those options could be Marchibroda, who coached the Colts in Baltimore from 1975­79 and won three AFC East titles. He was fired after the 1979 season and served as an assistant with several teams after that, including a stint as offensive coordinator at Buffalo, where he designed the Bills' no-huddle offense. 


Oh sure, it lOOkS innocent. But it could be wi-red to a no-name company that bas no qualms about overcharging broke college students. So, calling card in hand, you dial 1 800 CALL ATT and save yourself some much-needed cash. 
Live off campus? 
Dial, 1 800 CALL ATT for Calling Card calls. 
Always get XDIT. Never get overcharged. 
Know the Code. I 800 CALL ATT. That's Your True Choice:'" 


AT&T 
Your True Choice © 1996 A'I&T 

The Observer/Brent Tadsen 

Doug Gottlieb added five assists and only one turnover in last night's 
What does marketinghave to do with 
public accounting?
(the answer mayslwck you) 
S!J ERNST&YOUNG LLP and Beta Alpha Psi 
present 
"Why I ditchedthe advertising 
business to devotemyselfto 
marketinga Big 6finn.'' 
Phil Anderson 
Director oC Marketing 
Ernst & Young <lrlcago 
gling through a season for As are the rest of the Irish, which 'frustration' is a mild who now can see just how modifier, emerged from the much fun the Big East can be recesses of the bench to pro­when hustle translates to victo­vide a needed spark, nailing a ry. 17 -foot jumper with under ten "This was a tremendous col­minutes remaining. lege game that brought out 
Admore White's tenacious what conference play is all defense disrupted the Panthers. about," stated MacLeod. Phil Hickey's offense kept them After a long courtship with 
honest. winning in the conference, the 
But one play in the second Irish hope the romance is here half proved a synopsis of Notre to stay. Dame's evening. 

Wednesday, february 14, 1996 
The Observer· SPORTS 

Hickey dominated down low Hoover from the free throw 
during the Irish stretch run. line. The senior guard went 
Hickey finished with eight eight-for-eight but made just continued from page 20 points and live rebounds, while one shot from the field and 
Youn!{ had one of his strongest went zero-for-seven from 
and some more free throws outings of the season, scoring behind the three-point arc. lwlpnd tlw Irish to a three-point six points and pulling down ten Still, MacLeod was impressedlnad at tlw half. boards in 26 minutes. with the play of his guards, 
"A kny part of thn game was "I really feel like I'm getting even though the Irish looked our ability to convert free back into game condition," sloppy for several stretches. throws," MacLeod said. "Even Young said. MacLeod con­Doug Gottlieb had five assists making one of two is better curred, "Marcus had a very, and just one turnover, but the than wearing the collar." very good night. He's getting rest~of the squad gave up the 
Pitt's Jerry McCullough came back into basketball form and ball 18 times. out firing in the second half, his two free throws carne at a Some of the sloppiness was nailing two three-pointers to tie really crucial time." due to aggressive play, espe­
the score. The senior guard Young has been notoriously cially in the case of Derrick scorml 14 of his 18 points in the bad from the charity stripe in Manner. The sophomore for­half and held Hyan Hoover to his ND career, but with 4:21 ward led the Irish with five no points from the field. But left in the second half he con­turnovers, but he hustled his the Irish matched McCullough's verted two, putting the Irish up way to 12 points and nine e l'fo rts, pi ay i ng aggressi vc by ten and effectively slamming boards. defense as they continued to the door on Pitt. "We knew what we had to do chip away at the Panthers. "I usually make my free tonight in order to win," a 
"They especially dominated throws in practice, but in jubliant Manner said. "St. inside," Pitt coach Halph games I get out of my routine," John's was still fresh in our 
Willard said. "We just had no Young said. "Tonight I stayed minds, we remembered the presence inside in the second in my routine and the shots things we weren't too happyhalf at all." fell." about and didn't want them to 
Instead, Young and Phil The shots were falling for happen again." 
Hoops 

The Observer/Brent Tadsen Forwards Phil Hickey (left) and Pat Garrity (right) had good position all night as the Irish manhandled the smaller Panthers on the boards. 
offensive effort. 
SeyiDour 
continued from page 20 
Finally, though, their resilien­cy produced results. 
"We've got a bunch on guys who just don't want to give it up," said forward Pat Garrity. "The easy way out is to say that things aren't going our way and everyone's down on us, so we should just pack it up, but we don't want to do that." 
Notre Dame certainly didn't give it up against the Panthers, and were rewarded with a win. 
The difference between this game and the others that the Irish have battled through, however, was that for this one, all the pieces were in place. 
Garrity, per usual, took the team on his back during the tough stretches, somehow wedging between a Pitt double­team to bank in a shot during crunch time. 
Like it or not, though, Garrity's job is to take the dutch shot, and as he has all season, he deliver~d. 
It was the supporting cast that pushed the Irish over the edge. 
Senior Keith Kurowski, strug­
page 15 

Derek Manner out-jumped everyone on the floor for a defensive rebound and threw an outlet pass to Doug Gottlieb, who in turn delivered a no-look beauty to Marcus Young for a layup. 
Everyone did exactly what they were supposed to do. 
There was not a ball up for grabs all evening that Manner would not have promised his first son to get to, and the Irish reaped the benefits. 
Gottlieb exhibited poise beyond his years, contributing five assists to only one turnover in an otherwise chaotic game. 
But the biggest surprise was Young. 
Beyond his ten rebounds, the junior with career sub-30% free throw shooting drained two clutch foul shots with 4:21 left, eliciting a rare standing ovation from the disbelieving Joyce Center faithful. 
Like Manner, Young is just now returning to prime basket­ball condition after midseason injury. Last night certainly helped the healing process. 
"I've had nagging injuries all year that I'm just starting to get past," said Young. "Now that we have a victory, I'm feel­ing even better." 
Thursday, Feb~ 1s, 1996 Jordan Auditorium 6:~0 pJn. All 6usiness maio~ welcome Food and Soft DrinkslOllowing 
Wednesday, February 14, 1996

page 16 The Observer • SPORTS 
• BASEBALL focused on stopping the
Villanova 
Wildcats along the pP-rimeter. "The key will be our post de­

continued from page 20 
fense against shorter but quick­three-point goals per game. er guards. We've worked a lot 
Ns deal Eckersley to Cardinals 
Associated Press 
ST. LOUIS 
The St. Louis Cardinals com· pleted a long-rumored deal for relief pitcher Dennis Eckersley today, acquiring him from the Oakland Athletics for minor­league reliever Steve Montgomery. 
Eckersley, 41, replaces Tom Henke, who announced last month that he would not return for the beginning of the season and likely has .retired for good. Henke refused an arbitration offer from St. Louis and could not play for them until May 1. 
Eckersley is fourth on the career saves list with 323, including 29 last year to lead the Athletics for the ninth con­secutive season. With the Cardinals he is reunited with manager Tony La Russa and pitching coach Dave Duncan. 
One of the sticking points in the deal was that the Cardinals wanted the Athletics to pay part of Eckersley's $2.25 million salary. As a player with five years with the same team and 10 years in the major leagues, Eckersley could have ve-toed any deal. 
He has said that the only 
place he wanted to go was St. 
Louis. 
From 1988-93, Eckersley had 
four 40-plus save seasons and 
he had a career-high 51 saves 
in 1992. He's pitched in five 
league championship series and 
three World Series for Oakland 
from 1988-90, and he's a six-
The 

She trails only Notre Dame's Beth Morgan in three-point goal percentage with nearly 38 percent accuracy. 
The Irish are confident in their ability to smother Villanova's potent offensive at­tack. They have particularly 
• SPORTS BRIEFS 

Jazz Dance: A Jazz Dance class will be offered on Monday and Wednesday evenings from 6:30 -7:45 in Rockne Rm. 219. All levels are welcome, but space is lim­ited. Yo~ must register in advance· in the RecSports office and the fee is $30. For more information, call 1-6100. Open to all ND students. Intercollegiate Bowling: Any 
students of Notre Dame or St. Mary's who are interested in intercollegiate bowling competition, please contact Jason 4-1065. Sailing Club Meeting: Sailing Club meeting on Tuesday, Feb. 13, 7 p.m. in 120 Hayes Healey. General Meeting for anyone interested. Any ques­tions, call Melanie Schroeder at 4·2147. Women's Lacrosse: Practice schedule change beginning 
February 20 and will now be 
Tuesday and Thursday at 
10:15 p.m. Questions? Call Allison at 239-7924. 

n21ng oceans o 
love and warm 
AP Photo 
wishes too••• for 
Yesterday, the Oakland Athletics sent reliever Dennis Ec~ersley to the St. Louis Cardinals in exchange for minor-league p1tcher Steve Montgomery. 
CHRISSY who~s 
time All-Star. Cardinals' third-round draft 


He was used primarily as a pick in the June 1992 free starter through 1986, winning agent draft. He led the Double­
sPecial all the ~ear 
a career-high 20 games with A Texas League with 36 saves Boston in 1978. He was con­last season for Arkansas. 
through!

verted to a reliever in 1987 and Montgomery has a career has earned 320 of his 323 saves record of 14-11 with 41 saves since then. and a 3.25 ERA in three minor­
HAPPY VALENTINES 
Montgomery, 25, was the league seasons. 

in practice guarding on the perimeter," Fields said. 
The Irish have home-court advantage. They know what is at stake: their national ranking and a chance to win the Big East title. Now is the time to deliver. 


Wednesday, February 14, 1996 The Observer· SPORTS page 17 
• HOCKEY 
Playoff picture sketchy after loss at Western Michigan 
By MIKE DAY 
Spons Writer 
Tlw Notw Dame hockny team visitNI Western Michigan last night with tlwir heart set on pulling ofT tlw upsnt and jump­ing back into the playoff pie­lu m. 
Needless to say, tlwir Licker is a lilt In son~ right ni1W aftm· hav­ing it nwrdlt~ssly ripped out by tlw Broncos in a 4-1 loss on the Pve of Valnntirw's Day. 
"Tiwy arn a talnnll~d team who will take advantag•~ of any mistakt~ you makP," said Irish lwad coach Dave Poulin. "To beat a team like that on the road, )'IHJ have to play near perfect hockey. Unfortunately, we weren't ablc to do that, and the score rellects it." 
To many's surprise, the Broncos didn't completely have their way with Notre Dame. The 24-7-3 Western Michigan squad was never able to pull away from t.he pesky Irish and was even outshot by Notre Dame, 31-27. 
After thn Brom~os charged out of the gates to grab a 1-0 lead, the Irish answered back just :n snconds later. With 12:26 re­maining in the first period, se­nior captain Brett Bruininks found freshman left wing Aniket Dhadphale wide open in front of the net for the easy score. It was the ninth goal of the year for the first year for-


Downtown South Bend .. Hours: Daih II :00 Am. -2:00 Am ~.~_at. Noon • 2:30 Am -Sun. Noon -Midnight 
dMrtl\1:0'Wednesday Dane 
.·· ·..·.··· · New Sound and Lighting 
I 12 'r'A RD HFER N ICi ~ rr 
• Free 32 oz Souvenir Glass 
~~{ ~;:;:~:~;~0=-~-~,~;~ 
LADIES DANCE NIGHT OUT 
• DJ Starts at 9:30 p.m. 
• Some Shots $1.00 After 9:00 p.m. 
~~· $/.00 Chicken Wing~:·:.·.--. 
-f7 9:00-11:00 p.m. -­
(.-u .. J.: ...._"""""' 
FIRST TIME DISC JOCKEY 
ward. 
"He (()hadphale) has really provided a lot of punch for us this year, and we've needed that," said Poulin. "We knew coming into the year that he was a talented player who woulq make a difference, but I don't think anyone expected him to develop as quickly as he has." 
With the score tied at one, the Irish offense decided to fall back into its winter hiberna­tion. The Broncos held Notre Dame scoreless on eight power play opportunities, and the Irish were unable to take ad­vantage of their 14 shots on goal in the final period. 
"We've had problems making the most of those opportunities all season," said Poulin. "We k11ow that in order to be suc­cessful against a team like a Western Michigan, you have to take advantage of the chances they give you. We haven't been able to do that to this stage of the year." 
Sophomore goaltender Matt Eisler. who has emerged after struggling through January, recorded 23 saves in the losing effort. Freshmen defensemen Scott Guiliani and Benoit Cotnoir stepped up for Notre Dame, holding one of the na­tion's top offenses to just four scores and 23 shots on goaL 
"He (Guiliani) is a walk-on who we weren't expecting a lot from but has done everything we've asked him to do this year," said Poulin. 


Unfortunately for the Irish, the freshman duo couldn't place the puck in the goal for a suddenly anemic Irish offense. Over the last four games, the unit has found the back of the net just six times. And when three of those games are against perennial powers Michigan, Michigan State, and WMU, it's hard to lay elaim to a CCHA playoff spot. 
"There's no question we've had problems scoring and mak­ing the most of our chances offensively," said freshman right wing Brian Urick. "It is something we'll have to correct if we plan on continuing when the playoffs come in March." 
It is a correction the Irish cannot do without. 


NoTRE DAME FoRuM oN AcADEMIC LIFE 
uGraduate Education At Notre Dame" 
panel: 

Dean Harald Attridge (College of Arts and Letters) Dean Francis Castelli no (College of Science) ·Dean John Keane (College of Business Administration) Dean David Link (Law School) Dean Anthony Michael (College of Engineering) 
TIIIRSDAY, FEBRUARY 15, 1996 
7:30PM 

CCE Auditorium 
Sponsored by the Faculty Senate 
All are welcome! 

Learn by Doing 
Earn a master's degree at Northwestern University's Medill School of Journalism, and learn the media 
business hands-on! 
Journalism (9-12 Months) 
Broadcast Journalism 
Magazine Publishing Newspaper Management Reporting and Writing 
Application Deadlines: Jan. 1, March 1, Sept. I 
MEDILL 
Northwestern University 1845 Sheridan Road Evanston, IL 60208-2101 

Integrated Marketing Conununications (15 Months) 
Advertising Direct Marketing Public Relations 
Application Deadline: March 1 
Phone: 708-491-5228 Fax: 708-467-2319 E Mail: nwdill-admis@nwu.edu 
-

SOUTH BEND • EAST  DOWNTOWN SOUTH BEND  
Ironwood Circle  417 N. St. Louis Blvd.  
20041ronwood Circle, Suite I  CaII 234·0363  
273·8986  (24 hours)  

BOTH LOCATIONS CONVENIENT TO CAMPUS 
page 18 The Observer· SPORTS Wednesday, February 14, 1996 


Second half explosion propels No. 23 Calvin 
Turnovers, bad passing drop Belles to 6-12 
By KATHLEEN POLICY Sports Writer CAROLINE BLUM Saim Mary's Sports Editor 
The Belles dropped their fifth straight for a 6-12 record last night after a feud with No. 23­ranked Calvin College, 81-46. 
The Lady Knights took an 
Even EZ-er than 1040EZ. 
~ 
Introducing TeleFile from the IRS. If you are single and filed Form 1040EZ last year, you can file your tax return in ten minutes by phone. Anytime. Check your tax booklet for information. 
!!!TeleFile 
It's free. It's fast. It works. 
~<iii\ Department of the Treasury ~&//1 Internal Revenue Service 
Changing for good. 
JPRIN(I BREAK 
CANCUN 
7 Night Packages Non-Stop From Indianapolis
$4)9 
BEACHFRONT HOTELS AVAILABLE OASIS· DAY'S INN • CALINDA • HYATI 
packages lnclydt: 
• 
Round-Trip Non-Stop Airfare From Indianapolis 

• 
7 Nights Beachfront Hotel Accommodations 

• 
Round· Trip A1rport to Hotel Transfers 

• 
College Tours famous VIP Party Package: FREE cover charges. FREE parties. FREE food & drinks, EXCLUSIVE special events, OVER $150 in savin s! 


LOWEST PRICES • BEST HOTELS • BIGGEST PARTIES 
ORGANIZE A GROUP AND TRAVEL FREE/ 

-cAt.t. COLLECiE TOURS 1ooA'i\ 800-)95-4896 
Pnces per ~~n. plu•taxas. Publtc Charters via Allegro A1t Tour Operator 11 Funqu.st Vacabont Detads 1n OpiP•rt Cont111cl. 

unexpected challenge from their opponents in the first half, however. By halftime the Belles trailed by only eight points. 
"We were working well together in the first half," senior center Barb Howells said. "I would have to say that it was one of our best halves all season." 
But the second half contin­ued to allude the efforts of the Belles. Calvin came on strong 

Are You Prepared? WeAre. 
• 
Limit of 10 Students per Oass 

• 
Free Extra Help 

• 
The Best Instructors 


• 
Satisfaction Guaranteed 


~~CETON 
...REVIEW 


Call Today! 800/865-7737 
The Priaa:toa Review is DOt affiliated with PriDCdoo Univcrsily or the Educational Test.in& Sc:rvicc. 
with speed and anticipation leaving Saint Mary's behind to spit out the dust. 
"They out-hustled us on both offense and defense," head coach Marvin Wood said. "They were able to anticipate everything we wanted to do." 
The Belles surrendered with frustration, responding with bad passes and turnovers. 
"They determined our offense in the second half," 
senior guard Michelle Limb said. "We were supposed to decide that, not them." 
As to their future, Coach Wood hopes his team can gain more confidence in their play. 
"The more pressure they put on our offense with their force­ful press, the less confidence we had," Wood said. 
The team's offense continues to miss the presence of senior forward Jennie Taubenheim who injured her knee in last Tuesday's game against Lake Forest College. Taubenheim is expected to miss at least the rest of this week's play, which includes three of the season's last four games. 
The Belles have not won a game since January 27, a sta­tistic that they hope to change Thursday night in their matchup at Manchester College. Coach Wood expects the match-up to be highly com­petitive. 
• 

bring your true love (or just your roommate) to see Frances Sherwood tonite @ 8pm in the Hesburgh Library Auditorium ... snuggling & smooching allowed -but please sit 
Qn the back! 
0 

9la.f:J!fy, ValenLine~fV 9Jqy, Jvun tlw J:tPftCYonvnit:t~!
_. 


Applications are now being accepted for Food and Supply Manager at the Alumni-Senior Club for the 1996-1997 school year. Pick up applications at the office of Student Activities. Application Deadline: March 1, 1996 

Wednesday, l~cbruary 14, 1996 
The Observer • TODAY page 19 
FOUR FOOD CROUPS OF THE APOCALYPSE 
DAVE KELLETT YOUR HOROSCOPE JEANE DIXON 
foR, 1\s P~tE">IDE!iTj C\.E fn.,sr f\r<o lNIIEfl.E \)oE.S \owP.. LP.~<I> Of .2. t> fi\\LLIDN HAPPY BIRTHDAY! IN THE
0'<'£1: \liE rno~T Talii'IOl..OI:\\LPILL'1 0f'<E [3E.£.,I,.. 1\IE lNII•TE FA~tmE.R."5. 
NEXT YEAR OF YOUR LIFE: 
f\t>~IIHtED, WI"O('II\CP.\.1.~ jouRI<E'\ lO \liE 
Big financial gambles will occupy 1\rH> fTMfiiU<-'-'11)-v.,_~-:.E NAT'""'­1/J\\ITE 1-\o OSE.?. .. 
your thoughts. Those who do their THe WoR.L<> \-\P.s £'1£11. :SEEN. 
researoh with care -collecting all pertinent data -will emerge big winners! A powerful display of emotion at lhe right time will sweep the competition off their feet. Stop brooding over past mistakes and work at building a wonderful future. A romantic relationship will reach a crossroad during the December holi­days. Wedding bells could ring out early in 1997. 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: actress Florence Hen­derson. the grear comedian Jack Benny. actor Gregory Hines, ice skater Jo Jo Starbuck. 
MISTER BOFFO JOE MARTIN 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): 
M-Il/ Nat~ <jAy I ~E W::l2l7 •' c:::re.varr::, r-r'-? ltX) c.L..QSE. TO 1HE :$R:)I2"f'S> IEfZM '' 'DIVOI./1-rnEY'U­
Wr!=T MJI/ 'YGIUt-1.-­L..OSE 1HEN1. 

DILBERT 
Serious talks about work, money and romance take place today. Do not let someone's flattery undennine your good judgment. It is possible that this person has ulterior motives. 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): You have secret ambitions that need to find concrete expression. Finish projects begun in recent weeks. but do not start something new. Playing board games with your children will teach them how to strategize. 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Do what you can to assist a worthy social program. Your practicality helps you get ahead at work. Curb a tendency to act headstrong. You have more career options than you think. Do some investigating.
SCOTT ADAMS 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): Some risk-taking is fine, but out­
r-------------------------,ur-------------------------­
..

A'S A CO-OP Efw\PLO'l'E.E., 
YOU CAN'T B.PE.CT TI-lE. 
5Af'\E. LUSH C.UBICLE.. 
ENVIRONMENT THAT THE 
RE..GULAR EMPLOYE£.5 
ENJO't'. 
) 

CROSSWORD 
and-out gambling is strictly taboo . 
1. 1--\E.ARO 

Loved ones will welcome some extra attention and affection this
TI4~T TI--lE 

evening. Share a health idea with 
someone close to your heart. LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Old 
NE.W C.O-OP 
ONL'I' LASTED 

friends are the best judges of how
1-\E. DIDN'T 
good a plan will be for you. Tell
ONE DAY. 
FIT IN. 

them rhe whole story. A scholastic 
or financial decision >hould not be 
made in haste. 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): 

School activities attract your atten­
tion. Your mate's cooperation is 
central to what you hope to accom­
plish. Tie up loose ends before 
beginning a project. 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Con­

tinue to explore your professional 
options. A confident. take-charge 
approach will open new doors. 
Repay favors. Consult your mate or 
partner if pondering a change in 
lifestyle. 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21 ): Keep your ideas under wraps lesl you reveal your hand to the compe­tition. Someone's public statements may be a smoke screen. Refrain from going into debt. 
SAGITTARIUS lNov. 22-Dec. 21 ): Others may be too absorbed in their own affairs to show much interest in your plans. A void acting offended. This is not a good time to take monetary risks. 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): A pol icy of cooperation and good will is best for your purposes. Safeguard your financial future by steering clear of speculative ven­tures. Put romance on hold while you focus on a health or education issue. 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Business comes before pleasure now and will be far more profitable! Originality and daring are the main ingredients for success. Do not allow yourself to be distracted when traveling. 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Continue to follow the path the best results. Financial matters claim your attention, for both business and domestic reasons. A new trend is developing at place of employment. 
't'OU'LL ()E. SHAR.INC, THIS CUC>ICLE WI111 
OUR OTHER CO-OP'S. 
z 
u 
.!: ,;
; :;;" 
~ 
(/) 
~ 

:::::::=:::--11-'>n-----'\:'F------l~ 
., 
.. ~ 
" 
!!! 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 11 Author O'Brien 12 Borodin's prince =t'1-'=-+'::'i 13 Meadowlands Arena team ~=+'-'+'~ 18 Linguist Chomsky 
r.uQlQt!~]~ll 19 Hose
L! 23 Sch. class 1-'-+-'-+=-t-'~ 24 Church recess R-=-t:±:-1 25 Muddy waters 
~~~::.-.=::.:.r.=~ 26 "Walk Away -" (60's hit)
~!JE)···· 
21 Massey of "Love 
Happy" r-=-+-"-+-'-+:-1 28 Dubbed B-=+:=:+.~ 29 Actress 
Normand 

Make checks payable to: The Observer 
The Observer 

and mail to: P.O. Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 Published Monday through Friday, The Observer 
D Enclosed is $70 for one academic year is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's D Enclosed is $40 for one semesterCommunity. 
Name ______________________________________ ___ Join the more than 13,000 readers who have 
Address _____________________________________ 
found The Observer an indispensible link to the 
City--------State _____ Zip,___________
two campuses. Please complete the accompany­ing form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
• OF INTEREST Residence hall contracts for 1996-97 academic year have been sent to the residence halls. In order to be eligible for housing in the fall, students must return the contract to the Office of Student Residences prior to 5 p.m. today. Summer residence hall staff applications are now available in the Office of Student Residences, 311 Main Building, from 8 a.m. until 5 p.m., Monday through Friday. Applications received prior to Feb. 28 will receivt1 priority. The HA Sketch Comedy Show will present an hour of sketches, stand-up, and songs. The free show will be held in Washington Hall at 6:30p.m., Friday.. Bring your parents. See the all new Valentine's Day Spectacular. Sr. Sally Brickner, O.S.F.• a visiting scholar for tht~ Kroc Institute For International Peace Studies, will present "A Witness For Peace," a report on the Presi· dential election watch In Haiti. It will be held at 12:15 p.m., in Seminar Room C-103 of the Hesburgh Center. Ashok Ahuja, the award-winning writer and film director will give a lecture and discuss two of his fea· 
ture films: "Utopia, Urdu and the Ulama: A Study of Language, Identity, and Confliet." It will be held at 
4:30 p.m. today, in Seminar Room C-103 of the Hes· burgh Center. . The most Important part of the employment process is the interview. A workshop will cover the types of questions typically asked, behavioral interviewing techniques, verbal and non-verbal behaviors, and some do's and don'ts. The Dynamic Interviewing workshop, presented by Olivia Williams, Assistant Di· 
47 Myers. formerly 54 Hospital 

rector of Career & Placement Services, will be held to­
of the White supplies 

day in LaFortune, Dooley Room from 4 p.m. to 5:30
p.m.
56 Functions 
mecca 

The Women's Center will host a meeting tonight nt
58 Psychic power
51 Clayey soil 

9 p.m. in the Women's Center, located in Vendoland
59 Court
52 Seep 

in the LeMans basement at Saint Mary's. 
53 Sale tag phrase 60 Ore. neighbor 
"Minorities In Academia," a pres1mtatlon by Dr. Arnold L. Mitchem, Executive Director, N.C.E.O.A Washington D.C. will be held tonight at 7 p.m. in the
Get answers to any three clues 

C.C.E. Auditoriwn, sponsored by the Candax McNair
by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420­
Program.
5656 (75¢ each minute). 
-
• 
-


ACROSS 
1 Corridors 6 1968 U.S. Open 
winner 10 "Count-!" 14Author of 
"Daniel Deronda" 15 Secure. in a way 16 Sharpness 11 Thrifty maxim 20 Take a load off 21 Denials 22 Graduating classes 23 Sign of healing 24 Singer Guthrie 26 Irwin Shaw novel 
32 Cold-cuts section 33 Z-zebra link 34 Snacked 35 One Italian 36 Saddle parts 39 Kind of kite 40 R&B's Boyz II 
41 Mayberry lad 42Whip mark 43 Ultimate thing 48 Model 
Macpherson 49 Accomplishes so Stag 53 Frigid suffix 54 Alphabet trio 57 Joke category 
61 Level 62 Seed bed 63 Spine-tingling 64U.S. 65 Stance 66 Former London 
Times editor Harold 
DOWN 
1 Fells 2Jai­3 Schindler's aid 4 Building site 5 Cause for 
nose-holding 6 One-celled 
organism 1 Drunkards a Know-· 9 Memorable time 
10 Kind of shower 

30 Trans-Pacific refueling spot 31 Waiting room word 32 Speechless 36 Allergy stimulant 37Fire-­
38 Miser's pronoun 42 Used to be 44 Bank, at times 
45 Like some mushrooms 46 Mrs. Charles 

----~-------­
SPORTS 
page 20 Wednesday, February 14, 1996 
-
.. 
-
• MEN's B~sKHBAL 
Notre Dame collects third Big East win 
By MEGAN McGRATH Sports Writer 
It was one of those rare occasions when things went right at the Joyce Center. The shots were falling, the guards were somewhat under control and Marcus Young actually made two free throws as Notre Dame beat Pitt 77-69 Tuesday night. 
"This was just a tremendous college game," a visibly pleased coach John MacLeod said. "It was hard-fought, 
clean, and intense and we got a lot of people involved." 
Several players had key roles in Notre Dame's third Big East win, led by a strong all-around effort from Pat Garrity. Garrity led all scorers with 22 points and pulled down nine boards. But it was Garrity's defensive effort on Pitt's leading scorer, Chad Varga, that helped Notre Dame pull away for the win. 
Varga's consistent outside shooting and tough inside play helped the Panthers to a quick start in the first half. Pitt built a nine-point lead as the senior forward scored 14 points. 
"He was lighting me up in the first," Garrity said of Varga. "But in the sec­ond I was able to stay with him on the screen and roll better" 
The Panthers' aggressive defense initially disrupted the Irish offense, but Notre Dame settled down and Pitt picked up some quick fouls. The Irish's normally suspect free throw shooting was remarkably consistent, and a 15 for 20 performance from the stripe in the first half helped them shave the lead to four. An Admore White three-pointer, a Garrity jam 
see H 00PS/ page 15 

Too hot to handle 
The Observer/Brent Tadsen Freshman Phil Hickey scores two of his eight points last night as Notre Dame defeated Pittsburgh 77-69 last night at the JACC. 

Irish a tall order 
for streaking Wildcats 

By TODD FITZPATRICK Sports Writer 
Notre Dame is among the elite of the Big East Conference. Their play has even earned them a No. 25 ranking. Enter the Villanova Wildcats. The 1 7­4 juggernaut will stroll into the JACC tomorrow night and at­tempt to knock the Irish out of second place in the Big East. 
The Irish have no signs of let­ting up after handily defeating conference foes Pittsburgh and Georgetown. After stumbling against Hutgers, Notre Dame has capitalized on its promise 
The Observer/Dave Murphy 
to rebound from the loss and 
Sheila McMillen and the Irish will meet a 17-4 Villanova squad in a 
play with greater intensity.
Valentin(tS Day showdown tonight at the JACC. 

• WOMEN'S 8ASKETBAU 
Like falling in love again for the first time 
For the first time in months, Notre Dame coach John MacLeod was all smiles walking into the post-game press conference. 
He knew that this time, there was no need to bestow hol­low platitudes about how well the other team had played and how hard his own team had battled. 
In fact, upon reach­ing the podium, MacLeod removed his jacket and settled into the hot seat before the micro­phones as if it was his favorite recliner. 
This was a man who wanted to talk and, if only briefly, revel in the moment. 
And why not? In a fitting pre­Valentine's Day moment, MacLeod and the Irish had once again fallen in love with basketball in particular and the Big East specifically. 
No matter that Pittsburgh, the oppo­nent felled this night, was a team befit­ting the cast of "Love's Labors Lost." 
Under inspirational coach Kevin Willard, the Panthers opened the game with more handshaking and high-living than the Hepublican caucus candidates, but still wound up falling for the· ninth time in ten games. 
All of which was immaterial to the Irish. 
Notre Dame has not fared much bet­ter in recent weeks, and entered the contest losers of their last four and eight of their ten conference games. 

see SEYMOUR I page 15 

Villanova coming up short 
Villanova should provide the Irish with their greatest chal­lenge since the Connecticut game almost one month ago. The Wildcats, who are 10-3 in conference play, have won fif­teen of their last sixteen games to post the third best record in the Big East. 
Despite Villanova's tremen­dous success of late, Notre Dame believes it can take ad­vantage of their relatively shorter players. 
"They are one of the stronger Big Eas·t teams. But they're not very tall. Their inside people match up with our guards. We plan to exploit our size advan­tage," commented Irish guard Stacy Fields. 
The Irish certainly have an excellent one-two punch at the center position. Junior Katryna Gaither has used her 6-3 frame to bully opposing centers all season. She remains one of the Big East leaders in points, lield goal percentage, rebounds, blocks, and steals . 
Freshman Diana Braendly has proven she can adequately relieve Gaither when necessary. Braendly earned the Big East Hookie of the Week honors fol­lowing her performances against Pittsburgh and Georgetown. She scored a ca­reer-high 14 points in 21 min­utes off the bench against the Panthers. Braendly added six points and three rebounds in only 10 minutes of play at Georgetown. 
Denise Dillon and Sue Glenning are the key players to watch for Villanova. Both play­ers average more than 15 points and two steals per game. Glenning leads the Big East in 
see VILLANOVA I page 16 


Basketball 

• Saint Mary's Basketball 
at Connecticut, February 17, I :30 p.m. 
Men's Tennis 
see page 18

Women's Basketball 
vs. Kentucky, February 15, 3:30 p.m. 
vs. Villanova, Tonight, 7 p.m. 
Track 
Hockey 

Big East Championships, 
• Hockey loses at Western Michigan 
at Michigan, February 16, 7 p.m. 
February 17-18 
see page 17

Women's Tennis 
SMC Sports 
vs. Tennessee, February 15, 7 p.m. 
Basketball at Manchester, February 15 
• Morrison stuns boxing world 
see page 13 





