
Monday, April29, 1996 • Vol. XXVII No. 133 THE lNDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Textbook sales 
move to Internet 

via new Web page 
Hy JAMIE HEISLER 
Associate News Editor 

To n1duce the hassle of buying and selling text­hooks, Student Government is offering students tlw means to bypass the bookstore and go straight to the Web. 
As of May 3, a Web page will hn available featuring the Stu­dent Governnwnt Book Fair. The program. created by stu­dent programmers from Stu­dent Government, will offer us11rs the opportunity to search !1 database or information on availahln lllxtbooks as well as 


Miller

to oiTnr their own tnxtbooks up for sal11. 
"We hopn students will take advantage of it to sav11 morwy on both ends," said Seth Miller, stu­dent body prnsident. Miller and his eo-president, Megan Murray, have been working on instituting this projnet since their election. 
Tlw Web pagt1 will allow students to search for usml lllxtbooks by eitlwr title, author, edition, course number. or professor. The page was de­
see BOOKS/page 6 



Students ad01it taking Reason copies 
By BRAD PRENDERGAST 
News Editor 
Hundreds of copies of Right Beason, a conservative campus student news­paper that takes what its editors say is an orthodox Catholic view of sexual morality, were allegedly stolen by two homosexual students last week, rais­ing the question of how much a news­paper can and cannot say under the protection of the First Amendment. 
Jennifer Earls and Anthony Silva openly admitted to taking 500 copies of the newspaper on Tuesday from LaFortune Student Center, Hesburgh Library, and O'Shaughnessy Hall within hours after the paper was dis­tributed arountl campus. However, they opposed the use of the term "steal" to describe their actions. 
"It !Hight Beason! is a free paper out for consumption," Earls and Silva said. "We disagree with the claim that we 'stole."' 
Hight Beason Editor-in-Chief Dan Moloney and Publisher Sheila Moloney said that about 2,000 copies of the newspaper -which is free to students and the public -were taken, and that they plan to replace the missing copies during a second distribution sometime this week. 
Sheila Moloney said that the removal of the issues was a violation of the First Amendment protecting of freedom of speech and freedom of the press. 

"We lind it ironic that these people 
'There is a space for aca­
1 demic discourse, but we didn't feel this fit that space.' 
Jennifer Earls 
'They've asked for free 
I speech, and yet. .. they decide to take away our academic free speech.' 
Sheila Moloney 
have criticized the University for silencing them. " she said. "They've asked for free speech at this University, and yet when we merely propose an academic discussion for­mat, they decide to silence us and take ~.way our academic free speech. 
The incident is currently under investigation by Campus Security, which will forward a report to the Office of Student Affairs after the in­vestigation is completed. No timetable has been announced for its completion. 
Bill Kirk, assistant vice president of student affairs, said that the incident was being treated as "a very serious matter." 
"[If the students are found to have done something wrong, the matter] would be responded to through the disciplinary procedures outlined in du Lac," Kirk said. 
Earls and Silva said that they were upset with the way Hight Heason treated numerous issues, including racial topics, treatment of women, and gay and lesbian issues. 
"I was pretty much offended com­pletely. I was offended not just as a lesbian and a woman, but also because of the slanderous attacks, reproduction of names and numbers, and false quotes," said Earls. "It was very hurtful to people I care about." 
Silva took particular offense with Right Heason's claim that rape statis­tics are overly exaggerated. "When I [read] the part about rape and the seeming generalization that it doesn't 
see RIGHT/ page 6 

Four Food Groups of the Apocalypse 

The Observer/David Murphy 
Campus cartoonist Dave Kellett signs his newly published book, entitled, "A Well Balanced Meal." 

University announces Goldwater scholars 
By KELLY BROOKS 
News Wri[er 

How would you like $7000 toward your tuition, fees, books, and room and board? All you have to do is search for new antibiotics, study genetics with an emphasis on the effects of chromatin, or research con­densed matter physics. 
Juniors Anjanette Koritnik, Susan McGovern, and Eva Hzepniewski were awarded the Goldwater Scholarships for the 1996-97 academic year for their work in the aforemen­tioned fields. The Notre Dame students competed with 1200 students nationwide for 264 available scholarships. 
"It's really nice help for next year," commented McGovern. 
Koritnik was similarly pleased. "''m just really excited because it's [the scholarship] geared toward what I want to do with my life," added Korit­nik. ''I'm glad I got recognized for all the work I've done." 
Bzepniewski voiced her feel­ings as well. "It's obviously a great honor. It's one of the most prestigious awards for a person who is intent on a ca­reer in science. I'm very pleased." 
The scholarship, named for former Arizona State Senator, Barry Goldwater. is designed to encourage outstanding stu­dents to pursue careers in mathematics, the natural sci­ences, and engineering. 
The three recipients first ap­plied at the Notre Dame level. From those applicants, the Uni­versity then submitted four nominations to compete at the national level. 
The recipients based their application on research being 
see AWARD/ page 5 



Conference highlights 'collaborative leadership' 
By LORI ALLEN 
.~Jiru M.uy"s News Editor 

In an effort to recognize student leaders of the current year and help future leaders shape their plans, Saint Mary's College is sponsoring a two-day event to explore the ways in which the University fosters a leader­ship community. 
l.ast night .John Pauley, Assistant Professor in the Department of Communication, Dance and Theatre, and Susan Imdieke-Lindstrom, Assistant Director of Student Activities, lwgan the conference on "Celebrating A Leadership Community" with an interactive dis­cussion on paradigms of leadership whieh foster and build community. 
The discussion entitled "It Takes Leadership To Build Community" was held in Stapleton Lounge at 7 p.m. 
and attracted numerous students ranging from the President of the Student Body to current and incom­ing Hesident Advisors. 
"It was a great experience because it allowed for the women of Saint Mary's College to explore the reasons why communication leadership works so well," said Saint Mary's College Student Body President-Elect Jen Turbiak. 
Pauley and lmdieke-Lindstrom both stressed the need for leadership fos­tered through community, and spoke of collaborative leadership. "Collaborative leadership is a focus for our attention not only because leadership is a major commitment of Saint Mary's College, but also because leadership is not the exclu­sive domain of one department or dis­cipline," said Pauley. 
Students participated in activities and divided up into small groups to discuss the qualities that make a leader. 
"It was very interesting because we discussed what a leader is and how that person must be confident and open-minded, as well as realize that a leadership position is more than just a position," said Kelly Cook, junior Hesident Advisor. 
This two-day event not only offers the opportunity for current and future leaders to discuss and explore the ways in which Saint Mary's encompasses a leadership commu­nity, but it also provides a means for self-examination. 
"The discussion allowed for me to realize that we are all leaders in our own way, and that we all have within us the gift of leadership," said sopho­
see LEADER/ page 6 
Celebrating aLeadership Community 
·C ,Cc·f\!.l''·-------­

Saint Mary's College affirms its commitment for roles of leadership and action 
,i;..NN·~>-----~--­

10:00 a.m.-4:30p.m. ~ Community and Leadership Banner at Haggar College Center 
12:15-1:15 p.m. 
Saint Mary's College as a Leadership Community (luncheon discussion) at the Dining Hall 

4:30-6:30 p.m. 
All-College Picnic on Library Green 

7:30p.m. Student Leadership Commissioning Ceremony at the Church of Loretto 
The Observer/Tom Roland 

~----------------------------------~ 
page 2 The Observer • INSIDE Monday, April29, 1996 
• INSIDE COlUMN 

Dig 
the 
Pig 
We spend the fall traip­sing through parking lots and fields holding warm Natural Lights and trying to weasel our way into any tailgate with Kentucky Fried Chicken and homemade brownies. "Hi Mrs. McMahon! I met you last year, remem­
Leslie Fieldber? How are you? 
Saint Mary's 

How's the fam? Oh, 
Accent Editor 

chicken? That is sooo 
nice of you. I mean, as 
long as its all right. Gosh, thank you very 
much." Score! 

If we are lucky, our own families or family 
friends are in South Bend for the weekend, 
reliving past years and sharing stories with 
the memory makers of today. We look for­
ward to these weekends and all they have to 
offer. But then football season ends and the 
kegs run dry. 

We focus on final exams and papers and 
gear up for second semester. Ah yes, second 
semester. With no football to create a more 
structured, focused sense to what would oth­
erwise be Guinness's pick for the most disor­
ganized extra-curricular activity on campus, 
students need to come up with their own 
wacky weekend alternatives. 
And do they ever. There's no lack of 
imagination when it comes to beer. This 
year, for example, students definitely took 
the block party to a whole new level. With 
three Saturday ali-day extravaganzas occur­
ring around the time of Bookstore 
Basketball, nobody could complain about 
those second semester blues. From Hillstock 
to St. Louis to Pigtostal, students bundled for 
the unseasonably cold weather and spent 
Saturday afternoons taking a break and 
catching up with friends. (I know, that 
sounds like a bad Dockers ad, doesn't it.) 
As if Pigtostal isn't enough, there is now 
pre-Pigtostal; just a little warm up to get the 
festivities off to a start in case the truck load 
of Saturday's kegs aren't enough for you. 
Hundreds of students, with cups in hand, 
running around a big yard in the middle of 
South Bend, listening to campus bands like 
Stomper Bob and Elsie's Promise, drinking 
and drinking and, well, drinking some more. 
Stop the Insanity! Only during the college 
years can events like this take place and 
actually appear normal. They're not. In 
fact, they're pretty loony. Imagine being 
forty years old and throwing a 50-keg party 
in the middle of your street. "Hey, Jen, put 
your briefcase down and do a keg stand!" 
Port-a-potties decorate the lawn. Need extra 
furniture? Hey, just put a couple brown cor­
duroy couches on the front porch. Perfect. 
Now all you need are a few rent-a-cops and 
whoomp, there it is. Your party of the centu­
ry. No engraved invitations necessary. 
These really are the days to remember. 
And they go by so quickly. 
As crazy as these Saturday's are and as 
much as we all know that we have revisions 
to make on papers, resumes to spice up and 
meetings to plan, we still make the time to 
be with our friends and take it all in. Right 
down to the last cup. When is the next time 
in your life, after all, that you will have the 
opportunity to hang out with virtually all of 
your friends and a pig in the middle of the 
street and go nuts? 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 



News Accent Heather Cocks Catherine Deely Kelly Brooks Juliana Vodicka 
Spons Production Tim McConn Heather Cocks Todd Fitzpatrick Jana Bruder 
• WDRW AT A GLANCE 
Sport utility vehicles top list of popular cars for thieves 
WASHINGTON 

Sport utility vehicles, hot sellers at auto showrooms, are the favorite target of car thieves, insurance industry statis­tics show. 
It's the second year the vehicles have led the list after taking over from high­priced sports cars in the dubious popu­larity contest, the Highway Loss Data Institute reported Friday. 
The Toyota Land Cruiser and the Mitsubishi Montero, both sport utilities, were the two 1993-95 model vehicles with the highest theft losses. 
The loss ratings are a combination of frequency of a vehicle being stolen and the cost to insurance companies to pay the claims, institute Vice President Kim Hazelbaker explained. 
With the average rating at 100, the Toyota Land Cruiser rated 2,340 and the Montero 1,894. The Chevrolet Lumina sedan had the lowest theft rat­ing, 11. 
The number of auto thefts has declined over the years, but the losses to insurance companies have increased, 
Theft picks 
Two sport utility vehicles were top choices for thieves. The top ten in theft losses: 
0 Land Cruiser-Toyota 
f) Montero--Mitsubishi 
E) 5-Ciass-Mercedes 0 Legend 2-door-Acura 0 300i convertible-BMW 
0 SL convertible-Mercedes 0 Legend 4-door-Acura 9 GS 30Q-Lexus 0 300ZX-Nissan 
® 300i 2-door-BMW 
L_____....2=----'-.:::: 
That is because there has been a drop in joyriders, usually teen-agers who take a car to drive around briefly, sometimes doing a little damage or tak­ing the stereo before abandoning it. 
Now the trend is toward vehicles being taken for good, Hazelbaker said, "and in fact being exported, unfortu­nately." Sport utility vehicles "are very popular vehicles to export to destina­tions in Latin America, South America, all over the globe," he said. 
Not including the Land Cruiser and Montero, the top 10 vehicles for theft loss were the Mercedes S-Class, 1,533; Acura Legend 2-door, 1,347; BMW 300i convertible, 1,051; Mercedes SL con­vertible, 972; Acura Legend 4-door, 665; Lexus GS 300, 620; Nissan 300ZX, 597, and BMW 300i 2-door, 555. 
The 10 cars with the lowest loss rate were the Lumina, the Saab 900 4-door, 15; Buick Skylark 4-door, 15; Buick Park Avenue 4-door, 17; Saturn SW sta­tion wagon, 19; Buick LeSabre 4-door, 19; Subaru Impreza 4-door, 19; Buick Regal 4-door, 20; Ford Aerostar, 21; 

Hazelbaker said. AP Ford E-150 Club Wagon, 22. 
Clinton confronts Whitewater issue 
WASHINGTON 

From the confines of the White House, President Clinton gave 4 1/2 hours of videotaped testimony Sunday as a defense witness in the criminal trial of his former Whitewater business partners. After months of seeking to stay in the background of the Whitewater case, the president took center stage as prosecutors and 


defense lawyers questioned him behind closed doors throughout the afternoon. After testifying for the defense for about an hour and a brief break, the president faced more than three hours of cross-examination by the pros­ecution. No details of his testimony could be learned as participants were under a court-imposed gag order. The White House emphasized that Clinton is not a defendant in the case and has not been accused of any criminal wrongdoing. Clinton's testimony had been sought by defendants James and Susan McDougal, the president's two partners in the Whitewater land deal in the 1980s, to rebut claims by a key prosecution witness about allegedly improper government-secured loans. 
'The Cable Guy' has industry worried 
LOS ANGELES 

It's the cable industry's worst nightmare come true. No, federal regulators are not going to order cable com­panies to lower their rates. But an upcoming movie, "The Cable Guy," in which actor Jim Carrey plays a bungling cable TV installer, is prompting nervous hand­wringing in the cable industry, which is holding its annual convention here. The comedy from Columbia Pictures touches on the industry's Achilles heel: cus­tomer service. "It's the last thing the industry needs right now," said one cable executive, who spoke on con­dition of anonymity. Through federally mandated cus­tomer service requirements and steps of its own, such as paying customers $20 for missed or late service appointments, the industry has considerably improved customer service. Still, bad memories over shoddy cus­tomer service are hard to shed. "We've been whipped by that," said Ted Turner, chief of Turner Broadcasting System Inc. "I guess 100 years from now we'll still be carrying that." 


Students injured as balcony collapses 
BLACKSBURG, Va. 

A third-floor balcony crowded with college students collapsed onto the one below it during a party Saturday, injuring 16 people. Some partygoers fell 25 feet onto a concrete patio. The wooden balcony gave way under the weight of 15 to 20 people at the Terrace View Apartments just after midnight, police said. The front of the balcony broke off and crashed into a second-floor balcony, which was occupied by 20 to 25 people, police said. The second balcony also collapsed. "They all just fell in a tangled heap of bodies, wood, alcohol containers and everything else," Lt. Bruce Bradbery said. Thirteen people were treated at hospitals for injuries ranging from broken bones to cuts and bruises, then released, Bradbery said. Three people remained hospitalized with more serious injuries, including a spinal fracture. The injured were students from Virginia Tech, Radford University, Longwood College and New River Community College, Bradbery said. The 808-unit apartment complex, built in 1973, is about a mile from Virginia Tech. Tenants were allowed to have on the 6-by-8-foot balconies. The apartment management would not comment until it could review the police reports. 
Riots diffused in Canadian prison 
WINNIPEG, Manitoba 

The last of the rioting inmates who took over a mini­mum-security prison surrendered to police Friday night after 24 hours of mayhem that left dozens of people injured and Manitoba's largest jail trashed and burned. One man had his fingers cut off during the rebellion, said Brian Robinson, police site commander at the jail. He dis­counted earlier reports of death and castration. "The sto­ries of castration are incorrect. Some people have received minor cuts and scratches in the groin area," Robinson said. The riot broke out late Thursday at Headingley provincial jail, built in the 1930s and often criticized as outmoded. An investigation was underway to determine the cause of the riot, police said. During the rampage, prisoners set fires, destroyed equipment and broke ir.to the medical unit. Most of the jail's 321 inmates gave themselves up earlier Friday and were transferred to other facilities. By Friday evening, only about 20 inmates armed with clubs and knives but not firearms were still inside, police spokeswoman Colleen Kirouac said. 

5 Day South Bend Forcast AccuWeather"' forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 
The AccuWeather®forecast for noon, Monday, April 29. 
50s Lines separate high temperature zones for the day. 
Wedne~day c::::1 59 42 Thursday 66 44
~ 
j 


Friday ~" 67 42 
__()',./'...~ -~"'. --~>'. 


Lab Tech 
Graphics 

Michael Hungeling Tom Roland 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through friday except during ex3m and vacarion periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
Atlanta 86 50 Chicago 50 36 New Orleans 86 70 Baltimore 72 36 Dallas 87 69 Philadelphia 68 40 Boston 64 40 Denver 46 . 29 Phoemx 95 78 Calgary 46 21 Miami 83 76 Sacramento 58 38 Chevy Chase 69 58 Minneapolis 59 32 St. Louis 53 50 
----------~--------------------------~----------------------------·-­
Monday, April 29, 1996 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
• OBITUARY 
• CAMPUS BRIEFS 



Visitation hours set for Monday for Shephard 
Observer Staff Report 
Barbara Shephard, wife of Notre Dame physies professor Bill Slwphard, passed away Friday. 
Visitation hours will be held today from 2-4 p.m. and 6-8 
• CORRECTION 
Elizabeth Tucker, University staff momber, was misidenti­fied in an artide . "Harassment llnppens nt ND," that reported on a panel discussion and ap­peared in Thursday's Observer. Megun Mc:Grttth did not speak p.m. at Welsheimer North fu­neral home, 17033 Cleveland Hd. 

A memorial service will be hnld Tuesday at 11 a.m. at the First Presbyterian Church, 333 
W. Colfax Ave. 
at the discussion, as the article reported. Neither Tucker nor 
McGrath  referred  to  the  
Depnrtment  of  Human  
Resources as "inept."  

The Observer regrets the er­rors. 

Free Pregnancy Test Referrals to Support Agencies Confidential Counseling 
SOUTH BEND • EAST lronwood.Circle 20041ronwood Circle, Suite I 
273·8986 

DOWNTOWN SOUTH BEND 417 N. St. Louis Blvd. 
Call 234u0363 
(24 hours) 


The Vlliversity o.f Notre Dame's 
The John]. Reilly Center 
for Science, Technology and Values 
is pleased to announce that the following students have been selected as 



John]. Reilly Scholars 
The Five Year Double Degree Program in Arts and Letters/Engineering Class of1997 Alexander Andreichuk John Gardner Shelby Highsmith Michael MacWilliams 
The University of Notre Dame's Higgins Labor Re­search Center has given its first John Joyce Award to two undergraduate students for excellence in labor research and writing. 
Sarah George, a graduate student from Greenville, R.I., and Courtney Grounds, a junior student from Lawrenceville, Ill., will share the Joyce Award, which is named in honor of the presi­dent of the International Bricklayers and Allied Crafts union of the AFL-CIO. Joyce, a benefactor of the Higgins Center, studied at Notre Dame during the 1960s. 
George, an economics major, was honored for a paper entitled "Beyond Human Capital: A Labor Market Segmentation Analysis of Poverty-Creating Jobs." Grounds, who majors in soci­ology, was honored for her paper, "An American Labor­Management Dispute in the 
Light  of  Catholic  Social  
Teaching."  
•••  

Seniors Dominic Bartek and Eric Neuman captured top honors in the University of Notre Dame's third annual Spring Programming Contest. 
Sponsored by the student Computer Club, the contest matched 12 teams in a three­hour race to solve seven prob­lems using a computer. 

Bartek, a computer engineering major from Wahoo, Neb., and Neuman, a computer science major from Jewell, Iowa, solved live prob­lems in the allotted time. Working individually, junior Benjamin Peterson, a comput­er science major form Waupaca, Wise., finished sec­ond. 
WSND FM 88.9 announced a transition in the management for next year. Nate Rackiewicz, a sophomore, has been named station manager in the place of Charlie Clarke, who is graduating. 
Rackiewicz has worked at the station as a news reporter and Nocturne DJ for two years now. This past year, he served on the station's execu­tive staff as the Nocturne and publicity director. In addi­tion, he has been hired as an intern at a radio station in Washington, D.C., for the summer. 
Matthew Loughran, a junior who has been a classi­cal music announcer for the past year, has been named to the position of program direc­tor. Sophomore Rene Rodriguez is the new business manager. Kevin Rini, also a sophomore, will continue on as traffic and continuity director, a position that he served in this past year. Tina 
May is Sunglass Month 
What do you look ior in selecting a pair ofPremium Sunglasses or Performance Sport Eyewear? 
• Df'signer Brands • Style and Sophistication with an Emphasis on Fashon • Comfort, Protection and Performance • Advanced Eyewear Technology • Great Choices for Adults and Children • Great Values and Prices • 
Guaranteed Customer Satisfaction • ~ 
r'!f-+-"' LSI1f3. ~,agi<lllf ~G
~ ~ 
#*'""' ~ 0
For the first time in Michiana, you can meet AU 0 " of your Premium Sunglass and Performance Sport Eyewear needs 
~"\' with confidence! dll8\ · • Durt.Jg the entire month of May., the ~ ,..'~lANA EYE INSTITUTE Is hosting the premier DESIGNE~ FASHION & §. SPORT SUNGLASSES EXTRAVAGANZA. tt.~•• 


~---30%61/----1 ..._ ~ cucC' 
~  ~ 
on each pair of2escription or  
l  rwn-prescription sunglasses.  l  

L----------------------~ 
··,·,·~' , 
Potthoff, a freshman, takes over as the news director. Junior Kate Hillman returns to the position of Nocturne and publicity director that she vacated when she went to London last semester. Ed Jaroszewski continues to be the music director for the sta­tion. 
Station Manager Mike Flood has appointed the WVFI Staff for the 1996-97 school year, which will be attempting to transform the station from its AM carrier current status to an FM radio station. Flood will be returning as station sanager, along with Brent DiCrescenzo in his new posi­tion as assistant station man­ager. Colleen Carey will be the new director of personnel, with Ben Cordell returning as assistant director of person­nel. 
Other past members return­ing to their previous positions are Jim McNamee as advertis­ing director, Boo Gallagher as production manager, Dan Connolly as music director, Ron Garcia as chief engineer, Pete McGarty as remotes director, and Holly Masterson as SMC director. New mem­bers include Curtis Norvelt as sports director, Rebecca Gerben as news director, Sandra Nashif as business manager, and Erica Haavig as staff liaison. 
5804 Grape Rd. Indian Ridge Plaza 277-7946 
·,omastale&lolltuatreoutiltmm.lnoiydpply 'CO()yfiQhtl996CtucagoHitltUftlngCo, 
IIMAIL BOXESETC.® 
uMay Move Out ~96,, 
Notre Dame & St. Mary's 
10 am-Spm Stepan Basketball Courts Monday, May 6th-Saturday, May 11th Wednesday, May 15th-Saturday, May 18th Monday, May 20th Lyons Basketball Courts Wednesday, May 8th-Saturday, May 11th 
In The Lobby Of Le Mans Hall Wednesday, May 8th-Saturday, May 11th Friday, May I $1.00 Off Shipping 
PER BOX 
FREE PICKUP 
Pickup is.free, but no discounts will be accepted with pickup. 
Permanent Location Martin's Plaza -S.R. 23 Hours: M-F: 9am-7pm 
Sat: 10am-6pm 

277-6245 


page 4 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT Monday, April29, 1996
c:..........;:;__________________:_ -----=-.:..=-:::=_:_________________:_____.:~---
Comming Soon to a Pillow Near You... 
In 1993, Notre Dame funded a 5.3 million dollar project to connect the residence halls to the campus network. The original plan was to provide a network connection per room. In April 1996, the University increased the budget by 34°/o. Now Notre Dame students will have a network connection per pillow. 
The office ofInformation technologies (OIT) has been working overtime to integrate 27 undergradu­ate residence halls, and Fischer and O'Hara-Grace graduate residences into the campus network. In addition to a network connection, the University will provide free network drivers and software for the 
The OIT will bring the halls online as they are completed rather than 
a year until all of the halls are networked. In August of 1996, 13, halls will be activated and the rest will be brought online gradually. All halls will be finished by November 1997. The schedule was set by a number of factors, including physically wiring the residence halls and coordinating the schedule with other construction projects on campus. 
Just think, before long, you won't have to see that short frustrating message "Busy ... " because waiting for a modem connection will soon be a thing of the past. 
Get the real story. Shortly after students get home in May, they will receive the Byteline, a publication of the OIT. Faculty and staff will receive the Byteline at their campus addresses. Look for it to find out more about ResNet, including what computers are recommended to run on the network, the activation schedule, examples of how the network is used in Notre Dame courses, and support plans to help students 
get online. 

•••University of Notre Dame 0• Office of Information Technologies 0• Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 
L...-----------------------------~--------­
Monday, April 29, 1996 
The Observer • NEWS page 5 
FDA studies smokeless cigarette 
By LAURAN NEERGAARD 
Associated Press 
WASIIINGTON 

IU. Heynolds attorney Charles Blixt smoked 20 Eclipse ciga­rettes, lapping them onto an ashtray as H.IH unvtliled its long­promisfld "smokeless" cigarette at a clostld-door meeting with four leading tobacco critics. 
Skeptieal, Dr. Michael Cum­mings pe1m1d into the ashtray ­and saw no ash. 
Cummings isn't convinced 1\clipsn is a safer cigarntte, but with that ashtray. IUH got his atltJnlion. "It was amazing to stw," rnealltJd Cummings, of the Boswell Park Caneer Center. 
That privatn rnfleting at IUH's headquarters has some anti­smokHrs crying foul, fearing the tobacco giant could defus!l criti­eisrn of ils unusual new ciga­rette by eo-opting anti-tobacco sdnntists. 
But the dissension begs a broadflr question that divides tohneeo r.ritks: Is therH such a 
'I 
thing as a safer cigarette? 
Some critics want Food and Drug Administration-run testing of' any potentially safer ciga­rette, while others see "fake cig­arettes" as a wave of the future. 
"We have been looking at still 
'Jfthey could get a 
less toxic cigarette out, less people will die, but the fear is it will keep people smok­ing.' 
scientist Richard Kluger 
more radical and less toxic ap­proaches" than even RJR. said Jed Hose, a nicotine patch in­ventor at Duke University who is testing a cigarette-like tube paeked with nicotine salt -but no tobacco -that smokers would inhale. 
HJifs Eclipse looks like a reg­ular cigarette. too, except for a small carbon tip that, when 

!Happy 'Birthday 
Eileen ''Midnight'' Whelan 
Rock on! 
lighted, heats the tobacco 
instead of burning it. HJR in­
tends to advertise that Eclipse 
produces 90 percent less smoke 
than regular cigarettes, not that 
it's safer, although experts say 
that is implied. 
Yet scientists fear Eclipse may give smokers more carbon monoxide, something they say RJR's own tests on 20 employ­ees showed.Concerns exist about whether Eclipse could increase heart disease by putting more of the gas into smokers' blood than existing light cigarettes do. Eclipse never gets shorter, unlike regu­lar cigarettes that burn to a butt. so it's hard to know when to quit. 
Antismokers "are schizo­phrenic about it," said researcher Richard Kluger. "They recognize if they could get a less toxic cigarette out, fewer people will die. but the fear is it will keep people smok­ing" who might otherwise have been scared into quitting, he explained. Some asked the FDA to block Eclipse, saying it's not a real cigarette but a "nicotine­delivery system" that actually has more dangerous tar than some "light" cigarettes. 
Eclipse is not RJR's only at­tempt at a less toxic cigarette: It is testing Winston Selects, with a filter that allegedly blocks free radicals, molecules linked to heart disease and cancer. 
While most cigarettes burn more than 500 milligrams of tobacco, Eclipse burns just 25 milligrams when the carbon is lighted, so smokers' first critical puff.'> taste and smell like a tra­ditional cigarette. Then glass fibers stop the fire from spread­ing so inner tobacco merely heats and the smoke disappears. 
• AUSTRALIA 

Gunman slays tourists, opens fire on police 
By RICK RYCROFT 
Associated Press 
HOBART 

A man with a high-powered rifle opened fire Sunday on tourists visiting the ruins of a colonial prison complex, killing 32 people. He was barricaded inside a guest house early Monday, holding hostages in a stand-off with police. 
Police said a 29-year-old mentally disabled man from Hobart was responsible for the slaughter on the southern is­land of Tasmania, the worst shooting massacre in Australia this century. 
Witnesses said the young blond man mingled casually in the crowd before pulling a rille from a tennis bag and shooting methodically at visitors to the 
APPort Arthur prison ruins. several children and a baby ­
Two Canadian tourists and were among those killed, police 30 Australians -including and witnesses said. 


Award 
continued from page 1 
conducted in conjunction with their professors. Koritnik is a chemistry major from Livonia, Mich., studying under Marvin Miller. professor of chemistry and biochemistry. 
"Basically I'm helping look for better antibiotics to help combat resistant bacteria," she said. 
McGovern. from Denver, is a biochemistry and mathematics double major. She works in the laboratory of Veronica Blasquez, the Galla Assistant Professor of Bioehemistry. 
''I'm currently studying the effects of various mutations on the rate of production of white blood cells," said McGovern. 
McGovern plans to continue research but would like take to a different approach to her work. "I'd like to focus on mathematical modeling to study biological processes," she said. 
Rzepniewski is an Indiana native majoring in physics. She is studying condensed matter physics with Jacek Furdyna, the Marquez Professor of Physics. 
''I'm studying optical transi­tions in semi-conductor materi­als," Rzepniewski said. 
Anywhere in the continental United States 
ANTHONY TRAVEL 
' 
Between innings of Notre Dame Baseball's "Turn Back to the 1950s" promotion beginning at 7p.m., this Thurs­day, May 2, at Notre Dame's Frank Eck Stadium, anyone can try their chance at winning afree round-trip airline ticket, anywhere in the continental United States, by doing their best Elvis Presley impersonation. You will have approximately 30 seconds to perform your routine (on the baseball field) and the music desired will be played via the stadium's PA system (you must bring your own music-compact disc or tape). You must arrive at the game by 6:50 p.m., Thursday, May 2, to draw for what inning you will be performing. All contestants must pre-register by this Wednesday, May 2, by calling 631-6095. Winner will be announced at the conclusion of the game. 
To be eligible, you must pre-register by Wednesday, May 2, by calling 
631·6095. 
page 6 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS Monday, April 29, 1996 

Books 
continued from page 1 

signed to offer students the maximum number of options in a simple manner. 
"We really tried to make this as convenient as possible. You can either print a list of books in which you are interested, or you can directly contact other people via University e-mail. The Student Government Book Fair is a worthwhile and sim­ple resource that will help you earn more and pay less for· your books," said Stephen Marshall, Executive Coordinator of Information Technology. 
Student Government has worked closely with the Office of Information Technology to make the program available as quickly as possible on the cam­pus computer network. 
"They [OIT] have been in­volved in the more formal as­pects involved in getting the program integrated in Univer­sity wide computing," said Miller. 
Once ResNet-a computer network offering University ac­cess to residence halls-is es­tablished, students will be able to access the Book Fair from their rooms, making the pro­cess even more convenient. 
"We are moving to stay in step with the University com­munity as they improve com­puting on campus," said Miller. 
The Web page can be located at: http://www.nd.edu/-stude­gov/ after May 3. 
IF YOU SEE NEWS HAPPENING, CALL THE OBSERVER AT I-5323 



Leader 
continued from page 6 
more Anne Werring. 

Tomorrow the "celebration of leadership" continues, as senior Teresa Radostits, a member of the Leadership Development Committee, will address the issue of leadership at Saint Mary's in a luncheon at 12:15 p.m. in the dining hall. At that time, the Student Government Leadership Appreciation Award will be presented. Later in the after­noon, an All-College picnic at Library Green will take place from 4:30 to 6 p.m. 
The two-day event culmi­nates when the 1996-97 stu­dent government leaders, resi­dent advisers, residence hall leaders and class officers will be commissioned by their predecessors and advisors at the Student Leader Commissioning Ceremony. The ceremony will take place at 7:30 p.m. in the Church of Loretto. 
Right 

continued from page 1 
happen, it made me so angry that I didn't want anyone to see it," he said. 
Dan Moloney defended the journalistic standards of his newspaper. "We tried to be very reasonable not to make broad­sweeping claims," he said. ''I'm disappointed that some students don't want to treat conservative views with respect. 
"In the way we dealt with [Gays and Lesbians at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College], we went out of our way to make sure that nothing was inflamma­tory," he continued. 
Earls and Silva disagreed. 
"There is a space for academic discourse, but we didn't feel this fit that space," said Earls. "It was a pretty cowardly thing that they did because it was at the end of the semester with no way for people to respond." 
"What I did was censorship and censorship is wrong," said Silva. " ... But what is more wrong -to commit this act or for people like incoming fresh­men to pick this [Right Reason] up and see how hurtful this com­munity can be?" 
Both Silva and Earls stressed that their actions were in no way connected or sponsored by GLNDISMC. 
"We acted as individuals," Earls said. "I am a member of the student organization of gay and lesbian students, but we were not motivated by them. We did it on our own as students of Notre Dame. It was independent and we were individuals. We did this as humans, not as part of a minority." 
GLND/SMC co-president John Blandford said his group was not involved. "It was absolutely noth­ing that GLND/SMC was a part of," he said. 
Blandford did, however, share 
University Commons 
by UP Mall 

272-7653 
the complaints of Silva and Earls. "I've got a lot of issues with [Right Reason]. Its journal­istic standards are low and there are a lot of inaccuracies," he said. "They are dangerously loose with the truth." 
Nevertheless, Blandford did not condone the censorship of Right Reason. "I would be the first to support its right to pub­lish." he said. "I think that in a university community, people should be allowed to express their opinions." 
Right Reason said that re­placing the missing issues would cost about $475. The newspaper is seeking reimbursement and a public apology from Silva and Earls. 
Earls stood by her decision to remove the papers. ''I'm not sorry for what I did and I believe in what I did," she said. 
Grape & McKinley 
near KMart 


256-9656 





Announcing: 

~a..shir-1 gtc::>r-1 ~a..ll ~a..y-1 5 a.. t N c::> c::> r-1 ~a..y 1 6 a.. t N c::> c::> r-1 ~a..y-17 a..t 11:30 _A_-~­
of Senior "W"eel~ 
Directed by Paul Rathburn, ND Department of English Artistic Design: Paul Down, ND Department of Art Design Music: Lal~eya Cool~, ND Department of Music Stage Manager: Maria Thieneman 
No Admission Charge! Picl< up tickets at La Fortune Info. Desl<: 
Friends, Parents, Seniors, All Welcome! Be Advised: Remaining ticl~ets going very fast! 




VIEWPOINT 
Monday, April 29, 1996 

THE OBSERVER 

NOTRE DAME OrFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MAI\Y's OrFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1996-97 General Board 
Editor-in·Chief Elizabeth Foran Managing Editon Business Manager Patricio.l CJrson Matt Casey Tum Roland 

News Editor ........................Brad Prc:mlcrgas[ Advertising Managcr........................... EIIen Ryan Viewpoint Editor.................. Meaghan Smith Ad Design Manager .............................. jed Pe<ers Sporu Editor . . . ...... Timothy Sh<rman Production Manager......................Tara Grieshop A<eent Editor ......................joey Crawford Systems Manager........................... Sean Gallavan 
SJi:int Mary'.t Ediror................ Carolinc Blum Controller ......................................... Tyler Weber Photo .Editor ......................... Michael Ruma 
The Ob>erver is the indepemlent newspaper published by the scudents of the University of Notre 
llarne du l.ac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administra­non nfcith~r in!l.liwuon. The news is reponed as accur~Hdy ~md objectively as possible. Unsigned edi­torial!. rcprescru thC' opinion of the mJ.jority of the Editor-in-Chief: Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, AcLcnt Editor, Photo Editor. Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Comrnc:nrancs, letters omd Inside Columns presenr rhe views of rht: authors, and nor necessarily those nfThc Ohsc:rvcor. Viewpolm space is available lO all members ofrhe Notre Oame/Saim Mary's com­muniry and to Jll readers. The free expression of varying opinions rhrough lcners is encouraged. 
l'diror-in-(:hicf 
M•n•gmg Ediror/Viewpninr 
\JltiU!I. 
News/Phow 
Au::t:nr/Sainl Mary's DJy Ediwr/l'ruductiun 
( ;cncrallnf(,rmarion 
Observer Phone Lines 
631-4542 Business Office 631-5313 631-4541 Advertising 631-6900/8840 631-4543 Systems/Marketing Dept. 631-8839 631-5323 Office Manager 631-7471 631-4540 !'ax 631-6927 631-5303 Viewpoint E-Mail Viewpoint.l@nd.edu 631-7471 Ad E-Mail observcr@darwin.cc.nd.edu 


• WINTER Of Mv DISCONTENT 
Settling the score with Bookstore Basketball and Student Affairs 
Anothllr year is coming to an end, so I suppose that this piece represents my last opportunity to prognosticate and pontif'ieate on these pages until next August. That being the case, I don't feel I ean eonline myself to a single topic in this week's eolurnn-there are so many issues that I want to address and so little time to do it in. In other words. its time for a little seatter shooting and seore snttling as I ramble through a series of issues that probably deserve entire eolumns of their own but which there just aren't limn for. 
Christopher Kratovil 


ller.kling and Hadal Tension 
For startt~rs, there is the matter of BookstorP. Basketball. I'm eertainly not going to dnny that it is a great event. It's probably tho largest student-run hap­IWning of the year and the commission­flrs do a grnat job setting up and super­vising the tournament. Bookstore makes a lot of ptmple genuinely happy and is on11 of tlw grnal modern student tradi­tions at this University. 
That said. I feel compelled to eomment on what I see as a very ugly undercur­nmt dtweloping in this otherwise w.on­dBrful ovent; Bookstore is bncoming a forum for tlw display of raeial tensions on this campus. I know this sounds a bit nwlodramatie. hut it really distresses me to see an innoeuous basketball tourna­11Wnl usml as a platform for the expres­sion of inter-racial tnnsion at ND. I know I'm not llw only pnrso11 whose noticed this tnmd Bithor-l've heard many pno­pln who allnndnd "round of 16" games eo m11w 11 t o11 tlu~ same phenomena. 
Hacial taunting-rarely direct but real nonetheless-is becoming an unfortu­nate part of late round Bookstore games. I'm not sure how pervasive this problem is. but to deny it altogether is to be naive and blind. 
I know that the Bookstore Tournament is competitive and passionately fought, but allowing it to develop into a flash point for racial tension is irresponsible and dangerous. Since most. of the prob­lem seems to be crowd induced, maybe some sort of new anti-heckling rules need be drawn up and enforced. Perhaps abusive comments from the crowd to the players in general-and not iust those with racial undertones-need to be more closely regulated. 
There's simply no place for hatred in what sho1,1ld be an enjoyable and unify­ing event. I'd never deny that there exists a lot of tacit racial tension on this campus, but I would also question the wisdom of allowing this to come to the surface in the midst of a very public and non-politcal event. I don't want to make more out of this situation than there is, but then again I'd like to see something done about it before it becomes chronic. 
Help Wanted at Student A1Tairs? 
Periodically you'll read about a story in the newspaper concerning all of the old KGB and GRU operatives who where put out of their jobs with the end of the Cold War. Rather than return to a frigid and impoverished Russia, many of these ex-Soviet spies seem to have chosen to stay here in America, but I suppose work is somewhat hard to come by if you list "deep cover operative for the Committee for Soviet State Security as your most recent employment. Perhaps all those unemployed Boris Badinov types should consider moving to Northern Indiana where a promising career with ND's own Office of Student Affairs could await. 
For example, a little bird tells me that Student Affairs has some big plans for next year that might require espionage professionals (I suppose this little bird would have sung to the "Gipper" but Scholastic long ago closed up shop for the year). It seems that in pursuance of preventing student tailgaters at football games next year, Student Affairs is going to once again be using roving undercover operatives-some equipped with video cameras. It seems their new 

' A little bird tells me that 
J-\..student Affairs has some big plans for next year that might require espionage professionals. It seems that in pursuance of preventing stu­dent tailgaters at football games next year, Student Affairs is going to once again be using roving undercover operatives.' 
scheme may be to pose as tourist-alum­ni types making a video and get you to identify yourself on their tape, only to be brought in for a hearing later. In other words, if anyone with a thick Russian accent and a camcorder asks you any questions before a football game next fall, lie. 
Hey, I understand that the Student Affairs gang has a thankless task and are just trying to do their jobs. But what exactly is their job with regard to these prefootball tailgaters? Their beloved du Lac seems to contradict itself on this point. For example page 21. section H of the "Alcohol Poliey and Regulations" chapter of the current edition of every­one's favorite pamphlet makes it quite clear that "No open container of alco­holic beverage may be in the possession of a student" in a litany of campus build­ings "and campus grounds." This regu­lation makes no provision for legality, so it would seems that a 21-year-old stu­dent having a beer at a parent's tail gater would be in violation of good ol' duLac. A mere page later (p. 22, section J), du Lac comes back and says that "Students are responsible for compli­ance with Indiana laws regarding alco­hol possession and use when they attend tailgaters sponsored by alumni or out­side organizations." This seems to imply that a legal student drinking at a tail­gater is in the clear. 
So which is it? This is a policy that's begging for clarification-especially if they plans to increase enforcement efforts on this front. 
Whose Reason, Which Right? 
It seems that that gang of would-be Bill Buckleys over at Right Reason doesn't much like my little crusade to end gender segregation in living arrangements on this campus. Indeed, they recently elected to write a typically snide and self-righteous article con­demning any inquires into co-residen­tiality as de facto heresy (their favorite and most frequent accusation). That's fine-l'm glad somebody finally stood up and tried to defend the anachronistic and patronizing system of "parietals" that exists on this campus. 
But really Right Reason, do you actu­ally believe that the fact that you "are unable to name another college which is able to support its own campus florist" in any way masks the existence of a gen­der relations problem on this campus? You asked for evidence of the reality of this problem, so I would refer you to the middle school dance-esque seating con­figuration visible at any given dining hall dinner. The misogynistic post-parietals climate that can be found in any male dorm also testifies to the reality of less-than-ideal gender interaction at this school. The pro-coed dorm stance of the vast majority of ND students who have experienced co-residentiality (at ND London or elsewhere) should not be so easily discounted. 
Don't worry, you haven't heard the last of this issue. 
Christopher Kratovil is a junior who will return with his column in tlte fall. 

GARRY TRUDEAU
• DooNtStiURY 
I KNOU/ !A/HAT YOU'Re 
THINKING-I 9fOUW 
&4~ UP. BUT I CAN1; MfKf3l I WN'T UJANT 7() 
M/9.3 THe '3HIPIJ4T&l I CAN'TteT YOU ANI? /?CRNI& 1?0/A/N! \ 
• 0UOTE OF THE DAY 
"}never hurt nobody but myself and that's nobody's business but my own." 
-Billie Holiday 

"•«:;.,,..,.;:::.······· 

··«f,........ ·+: ~. 9vie MoV\dC\}"
page 8 -~~-/;: Monday, April 29, 1996 





A 'truth' better off unknown 

"The Truth About Cats & Dogs" 
0 out of 4 stars 
Starring Janeane Garofolo, Uma 
Thurman, and Ben Chaplin 
Directed by Michael Lehmann 

Synopsis: Yee-haaaw! Another romance movie! If you have seen one, quickly recall its plot and put it in the space provided. If you have not seen one, realize your blessings, read this column...and. for the love ofBaby Jesus, don't see the movie! 
Patman: As Daddy and I strolled into the theater, I felt an overwhelming sense of nausea take hold of my girth. My eyes scanned the prepubescent audi­ence gnawing on gum and clinging to their boyfriends' hands, and I felt my very sanity slipping away onto the sticky, littered floor. Unfortunately, for the next hour and a half, "The Truth About Cats and Dogs" did very little to improve my disposition. 
This newest romance film, in the stellar vein of "Up Close and Personal" and "Sleeping With Seattle," plays with all the usual stereotypes and shallow emotional rubbish. lts pretensions are thwarted by its ignorance. Its romance is stifled by its idiocy. 
The story might be the wet dream of a patron of Acoustic Cafe. A British pho­tographer whose work might show up in a perfume ad in Rolling Stone falls for a well-read radio talk show host. They talk on the phone, they masturbate, they both need lobotomies. It is all so cliched and trite. As the hand-holding minions sighed with empathy, I wanted only to proclaim that we, the fifth sword of Marxism, would ban this pathetic dis­play of vacuity upon the successful com­pletion of our revolt. 
I do not mean to wallow in bickering petulance. Romantic films can be done quite well, and can succeed in convinc­ing an audience of their authenticity. But, "The Truth About Cats and Dogs" does little but perpetuate the cultural programming that it tries to demolish. 
The film strives to argue that we should accept each other as individual minds with depth and intelligence, not as mere sexual objects. No contention here from me. Yet, the film insinuates in its conclusion that the less attractive woman only gets her man because he grants her that privilege. She still feels inadequate for something which is beyond her control-'--namely, her physi­cal appearance. 
The film, for all of its boasting to over­come our culture's stereotypes, simply subscribes to them again. This fact spoils the only semi-interesting aspect of inhale its fetid bouquet; and unwillingly did we feast upon this foul mixture until the upward flow of bile would allow the passage of not a morsel more. 

Indeed, the Patman and Daddy were forced to endure an insipid romance movie, a piece of tripe better left han­dled by the bonnie lasses who review soap operas. Even now, as I write this piece hours after witnessing the horror, 

this stinker. 
I guess you might like this trash if you find stereotypes interesting. Unfortunately, the theater was cluttered with teenyboppers who will be driving home with their boyfriends while listen­ing to Richard Marx on their tape decks. 
Sadly enough, Daddy and I forgot our baseball bats. We wanted to start a rumble to end the insanity. We wanted to kill the people who liked this movie. This might sound a little extreme, but if you can demonstrate the patience and ignorance to sit through this filth, we would probably want to kill you too. 
Daddy: I would like to take this moment, this special moment nestled so comfortably at the beginning of my col­umn, to thank our dear editor for toss­ing to us this pail of slop for our porcine consumption. Aye, verily, did we pass our snouts through its milky content and I still reflexively check my pulse, hoping to receive the reassurance that "The Truth About Cats and Dogs" sapped not my very life in the fashion that it drained my dinero. 

I was forewarned as to what was ahead of me by the nature of the movie poster itself. There it was, in vivid color on the wall of the theater, a picture of Uma Thurman and Janeane Garofolo gazing at a man who was being pulled by a dog on roller skates. At the moment this visual promotion tickled my rods and cones, its stiumulus converging on my optical nerves and forming the impe­tus for the instinctual flight command that would momentarily dance its way down my spine, I knew I was in for some real trouble. 
I knew I was about to see another "date movie," another resident of the genre of puppy love conformity, another timeless denizen of the movie collections of women everywhere, ages 13-27. That is when I began to cry. 
The movie itself failed to invalidate my preconceived notions about its luster and content. It, like those who came be­fore, and like those who will come after, borrowed the plot and theme from every romance movie that preceded it, hence ensuring that this already limited gene pool of narrative ideas would continue to shrink and remain forever stagnant. 
Garofolo plays the "cute like a stom­ach pump" girl whose eclectic acumen has yet to net her a mate, Uma Thurman lowers herself to portray the gorgeous model, and some random hunk gets the role of the cliched art dude. The movement of the story, being about as original as its plagiaristic cast, forces the audience to anticipate (and, later, to witness) a scenario where the two vix­ens get into a panty light over the tar­geted male ... with the ugly duckling, of course, triumphing in the end. 
Perhaps I despise this film and its rat bastard family because I despise romance movies themselves. I lind them to be disgustingly voyeuristic and about as entertaining as watching drunk imbe­ciles grope each other inside any of the local South Bend bars. 
Granted, no one can deny the emotion­al power of a "Casablanca," but the recent barrage of feel-good chick flicks are not even comparable, and their very existence inhibits our ability to eliminate the capitalists in a pogrom whose parameters are established on the nature of class. 
I guess it helps females who think that, like this movie suggests, women who are more attractive than they are must be, by some inverse law of human traits, less intelligent than they are. l guess trite, ludicrous and insipid romance movies are all about being in bad faith, and about looking over at who is sitting next to you and feeling good about it. It is high time that we put an end to this insolence and lance this boil on the ass of Hollywood. 
Fatman and Daddy are John Zach and Scott Bozik. 


Nothing to fear but 1 Fear' itself 
"Primal Fear" 
** 
(out of four) Starring Richard Gere and Edward Norton Directed by Greg Hoblit 

By MARK TORMA Accent Writer 
Question: Urn, can you explain some things about this movie "Primal Fear" for me--you know, give me the truth, the whole truth ... 
Answer: And nothing but the truth, yeah, yeah, sure. Whaddaya want to know? 
Q: Well, what are the chances that a real-life defense attorney would take on a hopeless case--say, an altar boy covered with blood who is caught fleeing the scene of the murder of an archbishop--and defend for free? 
A: I guess if you are Martin Vail, you are ultra-arro­gant, and you are played by Richard Gere, the chances are pretty good. Other than that, I could not say. 
Q: What are the chances that on the same case, the county-appointed prosecutor will be a tall, blonde, leggy, Holly Hunter-type, with whom Martin Vail had a not-so-fleeting fling? Does that seem rather amazingly improbable? 
A: Aw, c'mon, it is Richard Gere ... Yeal., I guess it is pretty amazing, but face it, plot devices do not grow on trees. And, you know, they did kinda have a genuine Spencer Tracy-Katharine Hepburn-"Adam's Rib" thing going on between them. I think I was grateful for hav­ing that sexual tension undercut the whole thing. 
Q: Speaking of sex and plot devices, are you just a lit­tle sick of seeing the "perverted priest" element used in every other drama involving padres? Or archbish­ops? 
A: Yes. Fire and brimstone may be passe as a way for the cloth to unwind, but for heaven's sake, Hollywood, let up on the depraved priests already. It is sensational, it is convenient--and it is old. Get a new target, like Vice-Presidents for Student Affairs. 
Q: How about this--where did the defense get off claiming there was a third person at the scene of the crime? I never heard anything about any other prints ... come to think of it, I never heard anything about fin­gerprints at all. 
A: Chalk that up to a massive oversight by the screenwriter. Still, it makes a good move towards establishing Martin Vail's totally balls-out strategy-­heck, his whole personality. 
Q: Is that why he kept taking the stupidest legal risks ever seen in a movie theater? To my knowledge, you do NOT let the opposition cross-examine your own staff. 
A: You do if you are Martin Vail, and according to you, the only truth is the one you make up--I think a self-professed arbiter of truth might have more than a twinge of self-confidence. 
Q: Are all independent defense attorneys really that full of themselves, then? 
A: It would appear so, but far be it from me to stereotype. 
Q: What were Frances McDormand and Alfre Woodard thinking when they signed on with this pro­duction? 
A: Probably ''I'll have a chance to show up Richard Gere." But I have to admit, the direction was quite fine; the characters meshed, no one was shown up, and every performance was believable. If these two talent­ed actresses had been allowed to shine more brightly in their supporting roles, it might have ruined the fine balance they had with Richard Gere. 
Q: Did Edward Norton find a break-out role in poor little altar boy Aaron Stampler? 
A: No; he found it in the role of the insane and mur­derous Roy. 
Q: I think I follow you there, but how about that sub­plot about the crooked dealings in city development, what was with that? 
A: 
It was really just a gloss, accentuating the power struggle--you know, "big-shot lawyer not only wants to make his name defending impossible clients, but he also wants to bring down some head honchos", that kind of thing. It worked its way into the story surpris­ingly well, I thought. 

Q: What was, for you, the lowest point of the movie? 

A: 
The title shot--no, the very end, when I realized the title had nothing to do with the movie at all. This is the most inappropriately named film I have ever seen; there was absolutely nothing "primal" about anything, and "fear" had nothing to do with the focus of the story. "Primal Fear" is a terrible title for this movie-­which is a good thing, because it would have been a bad movie otherwise. 


Q: Do you look forward to seeing other movies made in this mold? 
A: Definitely not. This film was as good as a cliche­heavy, overly-formulaic movie can be. I want to watch paint dry on the Dome before I watch any auteur's attempt at emulating "Primal Fear". It is not exactly the first in its genre either, but I am glad I saw it. 
Q: Finally, do you think you will continue with this Q&A format next year? 
A: Well, it was fun, but I think I will leave it to Nick Nolte. 
Mark Torma is a soon-to-be senior Anthropology major from Alliance, Ohio. 


ACCENT

Monday, April 29, 1996 page 9 
• ACCENT PROFILE 
• SOAP OPERA UPDATES 
Days ofOur Lives
The Spirit of SaiVlt Mary's 
Sopl1omore class presidenf 6.1/en Coleman embodies fl1e resr--,ecf {or fradifion and drive fo excel wl,icl, make 
SMC{amo~s 


By MARY BETH ELLIS 
Accent Writrr 
to a great end for the Saint Mary's community: 

J>nrhaps the most shocking thing about Ellen "There's a difference between having a gripe Colmnan is that she's actually sitting still long and doing nothing, and having a gripe and try­enough for an interview. The Saint Mary's ing to change things. This year has been a great sophomore dass president is taking a breather opportunity for me to learn how to work with a in lwr nun's-cell-turned-dorm-room in Hegina larger group of people in order to accomplish a llall. talking about the college she devotes so goal." nu1eh of hnr time to serving. Adding to what she learns in 
"Saint Mary's was my one the classroom and the experience and only dwice and the only 'There's a differ-she has gained in her extracur­plaen I applind to. Some stu-ence between ricular roles, Coleman says, is the 
dents from the high school I impact Saint Mary's has had on graduatml from went here-having a gripe and her relationship with God. that's how I first heard about doing nothing, and hav-"Being in the community has 
it," slw says. "I also learned affected my spiritual life in a pos­ahout thn merits of a women's ing a gripe and trying itive way because when you go to eollngn through someone I to change things.' church, it's not a bunch of people knnw who attended one in who have to be there because California." their parents are making them 
Thosn nwrits. she says, go. They want to be there," she manifnst themselves well at Ellen Coleman explains. "That attitude has SMC: "Tht~ women of Saint --:---:-;--....,....---~;--;----helped me a lot." 
Mary's arn allowed to be leaders in the class-Coleman will jump from student government room without nneding to worry about the tradi-to HIIA next year; she was recently elected tional lnadnrship rolns that guys tend to take. I treasurer of Hegina Hall. "It'll be something dif­like tlw small classes here, and I like the idea ferent," she says. "I'm looking forward to it­that my profnssors know who I am if I need now instead of working with just one class of help. It's niee to not just be another face in a people, I'll be in contact with women at all lecture· hall." stages of their career at Saint Mary's." 
Colt~num, a resident of Dearborn. Michigan, So... what does the leader of the Saint Mary's plans to turn that education into a teaching class of 1998 do for fun? earnnr. "I don't have time to have fun," Coleman 
"1\ftt~r gnlduation it's a toss-up, but I'd like to laughs. "If it's not class or work, it's a meeting. ltHLch in an nlmnentary school, probably in my But I met a group of friends this year who have horne stat1~."she says. "I love little kids. Little boyfriends who live a great distance from here. kids arn just cool. They have a lot of energy When the weekend rolls around, we all go and whit:h tends to knnp me going." have girl's night out. It's a good thing, because 
For now, though, Coleman funnels much of a lot of people don't understand what it's like to lwr tinw and eiTort into Student Government. "I have a relationship with someone who doesn't likt~ lwing involved with the school," she says. live a shuttle ride away." "Bning sophomore dass president has helped Coleman is now staring at the exact halfway nw gnt involved and learn morn of the functions point of her college career. "It's kind of scary, " of tlw school that most people wouldn't know she admits. "Time has gone by too quickly. It's ahout, sueh as the channels you need to go frightening to think that two years are already through in ordnr to get things done." gone. I'm looking forward to the next two." 
C:olmnan emdits much of the success of her "I hope they slow down a little," she adds as administration to her board-"They've taught she runs out the door to join in SMCTostal­nw to dnlegatll and have done a great job, " she she's slated to take part in the canoe races on says. Lake Marion. 
To Colmnan, student government is a means Sure they will, Ellen. Sure they will. 
Box Office 
1. 
"PRJ MAL FEAR" 

2. 
"A THIN LINE BETWEEN LOVE Be HATE" 

3. 
"THE BIRDCAGE" 

4. 
"SERGEANT BILKO" 

5. 
"EXECUTIVE DECISION"



TOP 
6. 
"OLIVER Be COMPANY" 

7. 
"FARGO" 


10 
8. "DIABOLIQUE" 
9. 
"A FAMILY THING" 

10. 
"FLIRTING WITH DISASTER" 


COURTESY BILLBOARD MAGAZINE ONLINE 

. Luckily, Carrie an_d ~ucas's romantic weekend in Chicago wa..<; mterrupted by Austm; JUSt as the two were getting ready to take their relationship to a new level. Austin knocked on the door, p:epared with the story of SamI, Vivian. and the scheme to keep him and Carrie apart. So far, no one has discovered Lucas's role in the plan ... and he wants to keep it that way. As they took n plane back to Salem to lind out the truth about Snmi, both Carrie and Austin wondered if there was a chance for them to get back together. 
When they arrived, Kate called a meeting with r.arrie, Austin, Lucas and Sami. She exposed Sami and asked her to confess. Sami. of course. refused; she made up some ridiculous lies to cover her tracks. Meanwhile, Lucas prayed that he wouldn't bo implicated. Everyone fell for Sami's story-except Kate-and it appeared as though she wero off the hook. However, Victor then offered Vivian control of the European division of the company if she would go to Titan and tell everyone the truth about Sami. They went to Kate's office, but when Vivian was asked, sh(~ sup­ported Sami's story. 
The woman-in-white, meanwhile. had a strange week. Laura gave her a psychotropic drug that made her remember her past. The lady walked before the mirror. took off her Vl~il. and was horrified by what she saw. Concerned about her, Kristen went to check on what was wrong. but when SHE saw the woman with­out he~ veil, she screamed and collapsed. After Marlena, .John, and Knsten left, the woman-in-white packed her bags and pre­pared to leave Salem ... but not before she vindicated [>eter by telling everyone that he had nothing to do with Judo. Petor couldn't understand why the woman would lie for him but he was thrilled to be free of the Jude connection. He decide;l to find out the reason behind the lady's loyalty. 
Meanwhile, Peter's sis, Kristen, is now in deep with the love letter from John to Marlena. Marlena was looking for a book to read, and John showed her the ones in Kristen's room. Of course, Marlena just happened to pick the one with John's letter in it. Just as she was about to discover the note, Kriston inter­rupted her. Once she realized what was in Marlena's possession, she panicked; she crept into Marlena's room and tried to find the letter. !"farlena _caught her und asked just what she was doing, but Krtsten claimed that her presence was innocent: she only wanted to invite Marlena to breakfast. Later, Kristen again tried to :u~mage t~rough Marlena's stull'; again, Marlena taught her. Thts Ume, Krtsten had a chance to snatch the Iotter b(lfore she :·explai~ed" to Marlena that she and ·!ohn were planning on buy­mg a gift to thank Marlena for takmg care of the woman-in­white. Still, when Marlena opened her book, she found portions of the letter; she knows John wrote it before he was to be exe­cuted, and she has begun to read it... 
-Erin Kelsey and Christina Fticsar 


General Hospital 
This week led to a remarkable number of surprises, the biggest being an arrest in the Damien Smith murder case. While all clues seemed to lead to Luke (i.e., motive and opportunity), it was his holier-than-thou wife, Laura, who was booked for the murder. Or so Garcia thinks. In truth, we found out that It was actually Port Charles' favorite lawyer, Justus Ward, who com­mitted the crime. He tells Edward he did it "to make his daddy proud" and "so Mary Mae can rest in peace." Edward, an expert on keeping things hidden, convinces Justus not to confess. and helps him find an expert criminal lawyer to defend Laura, so Justus wouldn't feel eompelled to confess in the heat of the courtroom. It seems, however, that Garcia already has Laura tried and convicted. Her fingerprints are on the bat used to kill Damlen (she is, after all, the one who delivers the toys to the Ward House) and she was there at the time of the murder, watching the children. 
Continuing with the surprise motif, the Q's all got a shock when Lois and Ned-reunited after a touehing visit to the doc­tor-announced their pregnancy. Of course, in typical Quartermai~e fashion, everyone starts making plans for the baby, and LOis and Ned get angry and tell everyone th(1y're doing it their way. 
The Commissioner's job is open. and Katherine's decided Mae should be the next one in the long line of Port f.harles' finest, although he disagrees. She's been throwing Damian's money around, happy as a pig in mud. She's convinced Mac can't han­dle the fact that she has more money than he does, and he tt}IIS her that's not true. He claims that he doesn't like how much money means to her, but doesn't object too strenuously when she buys him and Robin a big screen television. 
Meanwhile, somewhere in Canada, Brenda has managed to plant herself, Jax. Sonny and Lily in the same ski lodge. All are having fun until they run into each other. Sonny. Lily and .Jax all get really mad; Brenda's still going with the completely unbeliev­able coincidence excuse. Jax storms off and packs his things; hH tells her "things have changed" since they decided to spend time together to make Sonny jealous. Brenda, still blinded by her (ridiculous) love for Sonny. lets him leave. Lily and Brenda exchange words and slaps in the lobby. An avalanche warning is in effect, but Brenda goes skiing. Sonny gets worried that all is not okay when he hears there's been an avalanche in the area she is in (is it just me, or does it seem like disaster follows Brenda around'?) 
For the new couples of Port Charles, love is in the air. Felicia and Tom alternate kissing and bickering, and Keesha and A.J decide not to rush things but acknowledge the possibility of a future together. Robin and Jason share a kiss on the bridge (remember her crush on him during the whole Karen-.Jasnn­Jagger-Brenda mess?) when he gets her through a tough time 
-Jennifer Rubow 

Videowatch 
1. 
"BRAVEHEART" 

2. 
"BABE" 

3. 
"ACE VENTURA 2" 

4. 
"MURIEL'S WEDDING" 

5. 
"HACKERS"



TOP 
6. 
"A WALK IN THE CLOUDS" 

7. 
"COPYCAT" 


10 
8. "VIRTUOSITY" 
9. "To WONG Foo" 
1O."ASSASSJNS" 
COURTESY VIDEOWATCH OF SOUTH BEND 

-
page 10 The Observer • SPORTS Monday, April 29, 1996 
..... 
• BASEBAll 

Irish fall to Mountaineers in doubleheader 
By DYLAN BARMMER 
Assistant Sports Editor 
and 
T. RYAN KENNEDY Sports Writer 
Things didn't exactly go as planned. 
Notre Dame, desperate for conference wins, welcomed Big East rival West Virginia for a doubleheader on Saturday. But the Mountaineers shattered the Irish hopes, taking both games and outslugging the Irish 6-4 and 8-5. 
"Nobody gives you anything," said head coach Paul Mainieri. "We're 8-7 [in conference play], probably where we deserve to be." 
The Mountaineers came into the weekend series just 20-21 overall, with a lowly 4-15 road record. 
The Irish, on the other hand, were sporting a flashy 33-12 overall record and a 17-3 mark at home. 
What looked good on paper translated into a nightmare on the field, as the Irish fell victim to what has plagued them all season -inconsistent pitching, suspect fielding, and a nagging tendency to leave men on base. 
"We're obviously not playing good D," said Mainieri. "We have three guys who have com­bined for almost 60 errors. Our defense has to respond." 
Notre Dame struggled from the outset as game-one starter Christian Parker was ripped for three runs on three extra-base hits in the top of the first inning. 

However, a one-out Scott Sollmann triple and a walk to Mike Amrhein set the table for George Restovich's and Bob Lisanti's RBI singles, closing the gap to 3-2. 
After the Mountaineers built a 4-2 lead, the Irish in the fifth irining tied it at 4-4 when Bob Lisanti knocked the first pitch up the middle, bringing home Randall Brooks and Amrhein. 
In the sixth, another big two­out hit by Abe Barker gave West Virginia a 6-4 lead it would never relinquish. An attempted rally by the Irish in the seventh and final inning fell short when Mountaineer right­fielder Marvin Randall made an outstanding catch off DH Jeff Wagner, robbing the Irish of momentum. 
Game two proved just as grim. West Virginia built a 4-0 lead again, largely due to the fumbles and bumbles of the Notre Dame infield. 
The Irish eventually cut the 4-0 deficit to 4-3 in the fourth on some timely hitting by Amrhein, Brooks and Brock, but crucial pieces were missing from the offensive contribution. 
Wagner, who of late had been a hitting machine, went 0-for-9 with four strikeouts, and Restovich, who had also carried the team a week earlier, went 1-for-5 with 2 strikeouts. Lisanti, meanwhile, whiffed four times in five at-bats. 
Perhaps the sole bright spot of the day was Justin Scholl, who cranked a 2-run homer off the left-field foul pole in the ninth inning to close the gap from 8-3 to 8-5. Scholl went 2­for-4 with 3 RBI. 
Despite their stellar 33-14 mark overall, the Irish will have to thrash the opposition in order to gain an at-large bid to the NCAA tournament. 
Said Mainieri, "Right now our destiny is in our own hands." 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. ro 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. ro 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. 
Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
Classifieds 
[ NOTICES 
Michiana Paintball -If you've never played you'll love the game. If you've played before, you'll love the field. 291-9462 
J U N I 0 R S 1111 
U SUBMIT PRINTED COPY 
OF RESUME AND DISK 
N TO CAREER & PLACE­
MENT SERVICES FOR 
I RESUME BOOKS NOW! 
0 DEADLINE: BEFORE YOU 
LEAVE CAMPUS IN MAY. 
R 
s 
May 1 is the last issue of The Observer! Come in and place your final classifieds now! I 
The commencement issue of The Observer is May 17 -come in and place personal congratulations to your senior friends! 
ILOST & FOUND I 
LOST 

14' Softball Glove 
near Stephan last Sunday (21st)­
Please Call Mike at X1017 
Lost-Women's Seiko watch. Between Crowley and library, 4/15. Please call Jean, 2n-6233. 
Found ... Gold bracelet with name Missy in Debartolo Hall, Call Tim 273-4389 to reclaim. 
Did you lose a ROSARY the 
day before Spring Break in front 
of NOH? I have it. Sorry it's 
taken me so long to find the Lost 
and Founds! Call Beth at 4­
4936 to identify. 
LOST-GOLD WATCH AT BRID­
GET'S. SENTIMENTAL VALUE. 
REWARD -CALL SHARON. 4· 
2841. 
WANTED 
••••••• ARE YOU GOING TO 
BOSTON? ................. . 
Need a roommate attending Boston College or Harvard in the fall. Call Adela at 259-5342. She's going to Beantown in the fall. Are you? 
ND/SMC/Holy Cross Students 
SUMMER 
WORK 
$10.25 to start 

National company expanding local­
ly. Scholarships. Possible 
interns/co-ops. Build your resume. 
Call office nearest your hometown. 
SOUTH BEND 219-282-2357 
FORT WAYNE 219-471-6113 
INDIANAPOLIS 317-767-5416 
MERRILLVILLE 219-769-2352 
LAFAYETTE 317-449-1954 
BLOOMINGTON 812-339-3966 
KOKOMO 317-454-8840 
TERRE HAUTE 812·231-6824 
EVANSVILLE 812-428-6675 
ALASK SUMMER EMPLOYMENT· Students Needed! Fishing Industry. Earn up to $3,000-$6,000+ per month. Room and Board! Transportation! Male or female. No experience necessary. Call (206)971-351 0 ext A55845 
LARGE REAL ESTATE CO. NR. CAMPUS IS SEEKING RELIABLE PERSON FOR PART-TIME RECEPTIONIST POSITION. PHONE EXP. A MUST. EMPLOYMT. TO CONTINUE THROUGH END OF 1996. PHONE #243-9555 TO APPLY. 
YOUR FUTURE IN SALES CopyRite is experiencing dramatic grow1h and is seeking Sales Representative in the state of Indiana. As a division of IKON Office Solutions and Alec Standard Corporation (NYSE), CopyRite offers enormous potential to appli· cants possessing strong written/oral communication skills, effective ana­ly1ical and listening skills and a focus on exceeding customer needs and expectations. Please fax resume to: Mr. Jon King, Senior Vice President, Sales & Marketing, IKON Office Solutions at 317-329· 4401 for immediate consideration. 
Early vestiges of a classic R'n'R band looking for DRUMMER KEYBOARDIST Who know how to PLAY Brian x3744 
Wanted: Back issues of JUBILEE, Catholic magazine pub. 5/53 to 9/68. Ralph Gustafson 3 Mich. St. Apt.#1 Valparaiso, IN 46383. 465­1699 
Summer Bbysitter Wanted 2 days week 2-6pm 2 children age 6 & 8 Must have reliable transportation 
Please call277-5786 
DO YOU LIKE WALKS? READ· 
lNG? PUZZLES? WE NEED YOU PIT TO SIT IN OUR HOME M & W. 
PLEASE CALL 273-9512. 
I am looking for as many 
graduation tickets as possible. 
Will pay$$. Call Katie X1093 
Office assistant position open in 
downtown South Bend law office. 
Part-time, mornings. Computer 
experience needed with Windows 
and Word Perfect. Send resume to 
P.O. Box 511 
Notre Dame, IN 46556 
A SUMMER OF PLAY FOR PAY! 
NO couple ('83) seeks energetic, 
loving, fun summer nanny for our 
senE. Phila, PA Main Line area. 
800·523·1036 X15907 
FOR RENT 
ROOMS FOR RENT IN PRIVATE 
HOME. 
VERY CLOSE TO NO. 
IDEAL FOR SMC-ND EVENTS. 272-6194. 
COLLEGE PARK APT 
FOR SUMMER 
BEST OFFER 
CALL SARAH OR JILL X2907 
Mishawaka, clean upstairs 
1 bedroom apartment, no 
smokers, $300/month, open June 1, call after May 8. 255· 
4766. 
IRISH CO. B&B REGISTRY Stay at the "MOOSE KRAUSE HOUSE" or other approved homes. Grad. • Football games 219-277-7003 
ROOM FOR RENT $295 incl utilities and extras! Great location!! 232·8953 
DISCOUNTED APARTMENT FOR THE SUMMER· COLLEGE PARK CONDOS 273-1738 
Living in Chicago for the summer? We (two guys ND95) need a sum­mer roommate from June to mid· August. In the heart of Lincoln Park (best neighborhood). Two blocks from lake and two steps from bus stop. call Tom (312) 528·1482 
NEED ROOMATE FOR SPACIOUS DOWNTN APT PRIV 1/2 BATH W/ROOM $200/MO HEAT INCL ALISA@ 237-1840 
BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY 219-291-7153 
Cozy Furnished Student Apts -large 1 bedrm, $330 -small 1 bedrm, $260 755 South Bend Ave 1 block west of NO Ave deposit, references 1·800-582-9320 
OAK HILL CONDO 2 BDR/2 BATH/ LOFT $665/ MONTH JUNE 1· MAY 31 CALL MRS. MARCHIOLO (818) 968-7030 
MISHAWAKA EFFICIENCY $ 255 MO.& LIGHTS. SUNNY 3RM.2ND FLOOR;QUIET BLD. 1 ADUL T,NO PETS, BUS LINE. 259·6050. 
Students Welcome! New Mini Storage Facility, 6482 Brick Rd. Call219-277-3122. 
RM FOR FALL '96/SPR '97 $250, FURNISHED, 5-MIN DRIVE. 232-7175. 
GRADUATION COTTAGE & RESIDENCES NEAR N.D. @ $60/NIGHT · & AVAILABLE FOR SCHOOL YEAR. 272-1968. 
Room for rent · summer or school year '96-97. Nice neighorbood. $320/mo. 255-9005 
2 & 3 BDRM HOMES NEAR CAM· PUS.GILLIS PROPERTIES 272· 6306 
FOR SALE 
1421 N. Oak Hill Dr., condo, two full baths, walk to NO, finished lower level, all appliances, garage, one­owner, $76,900,277-8898 
•••••• A GREAT DEAL ••••••• 84 Ford Escort ...standard...white... runs great... very reliable! $975 
Call today before it's too late! 234-4219 

FRIDGE, LOFT, CARPETS, COUCH Call Kristen X2695 
TREK 850 MTN BIKE $150/0BO 289-927 4 
lggy Needs a Homellll I am going abroad and can't take my iguana with me. Could you give lggy a home? Every1hing included at a super low price. Call273-1612 if interested. 
MAC POWER BOOK 150 8/120, only $850 with carrying case. Stylewriter printer, $95. MAC LC with 12" color monitor, $600. Call, 287-4528. 
BED & DESK FOR SALE 277-8260 
GREAT STUFF FOR OFF-CAM­PUS LIVING!!!!!!!! Double Bed, Twin Bed, Dining Room Set, Couches, Chairs, Desk and much, much more. Call Larry at 271-1732. 
D.J. Mixer 4 Channels, Cross-Fader. 6 Band Equalizer, Mic. Talk-Over, 6 Sound Effects, Cue Switch, etc ... by Lux Sound. $240 Flat Call Isaac 634-1668 
Need furniture for next year? We got couches, coffee tables,desks, queen beds, & other neat toys Call 239-0931 
FOR FREE!I!IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII!I!I!II 
1.) The most comfortable couch in the known world. Brown 2 peice sectional. Good cond. 
2.) Hand fed Naday Conure (it's a bird). Tame, affectionate, lovable. Learning to talk. cage & all acess. incl. Very beautiful. Worth $300 but I want him to have a good home. 
Call Ryan @ 239·8963 
1991 Jeep Cherokee Sport 20 4WD Stick, White, Cruise control, towing package, fog lights. tendo lover, Top condition: $10,500 Call: 684-2665 between 6-8pm. 
RED '93 LEBARON CONV. EXCEL. COND. LOADED. (616) 471-1557. 
PERSONAL 
0a0a0a0a0a0a0a0a0o0a0 
QUALITY COPIES, QUICKLY!!! THE COPY SHOP LaFortune Student Center Phone 631-COPY 
0a0a0a0a0a0a0a0a0a0a0 
THE COPY SHOP 
LaFortune Student Center EXTENDED FINALS HOURS Fri. 5/3 7:30am -Midnight*'* Sat. 5/4 9:00am • Midnight" .. Sun. 5/5 9:00am -Midnight".. Mon. 5/6 7:30am · Midnight Tues. 5/7 7:30am -Midnight Wed. 5/8 7:30am • Midnight Thur. 5/9 7:30am -Midnight Fri. 5/10 7:30am-7:00pm We're open all SUMMER too! 
THE COPY SHOP 
LaFortune Student Center WE'RE OPEN ALL SUMMER! Our summer hours begin after finals are over on Saturday May 11 Mon-Fri 8:30am-5:30pm 
CALL 631-COPY 
THE COPY SHOP 
LaFortune Student Center 
Ride needed to Southern NY or Northern NJ on Sunday 5/19 or Monday 5/20. Also, anywhere near Meadville PA on 5/19. Please help, I will pay for gas/tolls, drive, and keep you entertained! Call Brian x1173, Thank you. 
..............•....................... 
I NEED GRADUATION TICKETS!II PLEASE HELP ME AND MY THREE LOVING GRANDPAR· ENTS WHO ARE COMING FROM CANADA CALL CHRISTIAN AT 287-6743 
Jeff: Don't forget your underwear. 
That's where they have the Indianapolis 500, isn't it? 
BEFORE YOU GO! BEFORE IT'S DONE! DON'T FORGET TO GET YOUR COPY OF FOUR FOOD GROUPS FIRST BOOK: "A WELL BAL· ANCED MEAL" (AVAILABLE AT HAMMES AND WHEEL LAFORTUNE) 
GOLF SCRAMBLE Friday, May 3. -2nd Study Day­9 am shotgun start. Pizza after­ward! 4 person teams; $10 per player. Call Todd @ x3249. GREAT PRIZES. 
THERE'S NOT MANY LEFT! GET YOUR FOUR FOOD GROUPS BOOK, "A WELL BAL· ANCED MEAL," BEFORE THEY'RE ALL GONE! 
Congrats fellow WSI-ers: "We survived Bro. Lou!" 
ADOPTION: I'm a very happy little girl named Caitlin who is adopted. I would love a baby sister or brother to play with. My parents are NO grads. Dad's a lawyer and mom plays with me full time. We have a wonderful life, with plenty of hugs, kisses, toys, & love for a new baby. Call Meg & Shawn collect. (708)355-4970. Confidential & legal. 
BEST RATES 
for 
UPS 
Extended Hours During FINALS COUNTRY HARVESTER 
M-F 10·5 Sat 12·5 
1-6714 
Ship thru 5·22-96 
J U N I 0 R S 1111 U SUBMIT PRINTED COPY OF RESUME AND DISK N TO CAREER & PLACE· 
MENT SERVICES FOR 
RESUME BOOKS NOW! 
0 DEADLINE: BEFORE YOU LEAVE CAMPUS IN MAY. 
R 
s 
ADOPTION: We long to give your newborn endless love, opportunites & security. Perhaps we can help each other. Expenses paid. Call Rosemary & John 1-800-984-9429 
THERE ARE FEW THINGS IN LIFE AS SATISFYING AS A GOOD LAUGH (EXCEPT MAYBE A LIGHTLY CHILLED PABST BLUE RIBBON) ..... SO GET THE FIRST FOUR FOOD GROUPS BOOK: "A WELL BAL­ANCED MEAL" (AVAILABLE AT WHEEL LAFOR­TUNE AND THE HAMMES INFO DESK) 
Do you need a part-time job (8·12 hours/week) for the '96-'97 acade­mic year? THE COPY SHOP in the LaFortune Student Center will be hiring one or two Notre Dame stu­dents for next academic year. Ideally, we are looking for students who will be sophomores or juniors. In addition, up to 40 hours per week will be available for the first two weeks before each semester begins, so it would be helpful if the applicant lives in the Michiana area or will be living off-campus. Apply in person at THE COPY SHOP in the LaFortune Student Center TODAY!!! 
To all my SAW buddies-I want you to know that as you approach finals, ABU DABU and I will be saying mantras for each of you. We'll send you the positive energy of Chandra Gupta, Chandra Gupta Gupta, and Chandra Gupta Maurya. Hold tight my friends, follow your dharma for soon you will reach moksha. I love you & I miss you. Laura 
I'm so so so sorry and grateful your so forgiving Can't wait till Thursday!! 
You know what I forgot to do? MAYBE GET GAS? 
I will beat you next time. I just let you win so you'd get overconfident and fall flat on your face the neX1 time. 
Sometimes you can't win no matter what you do. Hey everybody, the world is an oyster and I don't under­stand what that means. Just trying to fill space you know? 
Happy Birthday tomorrow, Cristin 
L'Esperance! Have a good one! 
Are you nailing? 
Gee Ricky, I'm sorry your mom blew up. 
I ski.. you ski. .... we ski. .... we could be a skiing team. 
Ro-Ro, MB, AB, Erin, Mel · 
You guys rock, l"m not gonna lie to you. -HAC 
Kevina, You. Me. Midnight Classics. MB. BP Food Sales. Sould like a plan? 
Yo, Larry! Wasn't that a rager the 
other day? Don't forget the funnel. 
So much depends on the red 
wheelbarrow glazed with rainwater 
beside the white chickens. -WCW 
Check it out. What about the 
ducks? 


Monday, April 29, 19% The Observer • SPORTS 
great four years at Notre 
Dame." "We are all great friends," continued from page 16 Coleman added. "We have 
played them throughout the all decided to stick it out at year and we knew it was going Stepan." to be a great, evenly-matched 
Nevertheless, as the rain game. I swear if we played stopped midway through the them ten times for the game, Dos Kloskas came out of Bookstore title, we would split halftime strong, although down it five and five." a point, and then proceeded to Showtime, who made their go on a 5-0 run. own history by knocking off 
They began to get the ball top-ranked, defending champi­inside to their big man Bert on Models, Inc. in the semi­Berry, who finished the game finals, 21-19, agreed that the with s1wen points and four game was a great culmination rebounds, opening the outside ta their final Bookstore stint. for the dramatic ending, a "It was one the best experi­twenty-two foot shot by 1996 ences, if not the best, I've had Mr. Bookstore, Pete Coleman. here," Brown said. "It was fun 

When asked about the shot, playing Dos Kloskas. They are Coleman responded, "Bunning a great team and they deserved up the court, 1 thought about to win." how we were in the position to Coleman and Mike Kloska, in win Bookstore and how, as a their last game of Bookstore senior, I had the opportunity to Basketball, both concurred this hit the game-winning shot. I was the highlight of their four came off a great screen set by years at Notre Dame, especially Mike IKioska], got a good look, because of the close bond with and decided 
to take it." their teammates. The Observer/Rob Finch 
"It was a perfect cap to a "The five of us are friends Tournament MVP Dan Fannon had reason to celebrate after guiding first," Kloska commented. "It's Dos Kloskas to the title in Bookstore XXV. not like we recruited anybody. 
Bookstore 


senior the award that honors
We just put a team together 
the player who most exempli­


Awards
and started to play." 
fies the spirit of this time-hon­
Coleman added, "We decided 
ored Notre Dame tradition. 

continued from page 16
at the beginning of the tourna­
Although excited, and de­
ment that we were going to be 

championship game, his all­servedly so, about the game,
playing on Sunday, April 28, for 

around play throughout this Coleman was quite humble
the championship." 

year's tournament and those of concerning his award. 
And that's exactly what they 

the last three years earned the "I'd like to share [Mr.
did. 
Monday, April 29, 1996 

Club Council Needs You! Club Council always needs volunteers. Come help us determine where your money should go. Stop by and see what we are all about. 
Stop by our 2nd floor LaFortune office to see what the Club Council has to offer you and your organization! 




r -----------,
KRIS'S

I 1 
I KOUNTRY 1 I KITCHEN I 
I I 
I •Cinnamon Rolls•Cookies•Breads• I •Party Tray•Special Orders• 
All Products are made with Fresh Ingredients

I I 
i 
North VIllage Mall• (219) 271 7888 

Coming Wednesdtlph M11y I ••• OrJen Mike JVight Coffeehouse 
After a semester of listening to 
endless, unipspirinB lectures 
finally a chanceto take the mike and let every···oqn.. '.'e.'';·k·n· ow what 
Y~J;la~~ to say ~/~~+..;, OR..,:j_t,~.t come to hear ~~ents ~/,;(t;.; p~fnJ, stories, t1d iliotlghts 
1 
•.. \vhile you enjoy 
·...-~---.-...,. 
.... -._tree coffee & desserts 
In the LaFun BaUr , 9-11 pm 

Graduating soon? No job yet? 
Ever considered working in sports? 
For 8 years Sports Careers has provided products and services for sports industry job seekers, including The Insider newsletter (published twice a month with 60-75 currently available internships and jobs in sales, marketing, public relations, journalism and management each issue), an automated resume bank and more. 
For subscription information call ... 


SPORTS
CAREERS · 
1-800-SPORT -77 
NSGA World Sports Expo/Sports Careers Seminar coming to Chicago. 
Bookstore] with Mike Kloska (his teammate)," stated an elat­ed Coleman. "He deserved it [just as much as Coleman]. I felt like I got it because of the shot." 
The run of awards for the championship squad did not end there. Junior Dan Fannon, who scored six points in the final game, was named Most Valuable Player of the tourna­ment. His most impressive per­formance came in the semifinal contest against CJ's Wooden Shoes, when he tallied nine points and five rebounds. 
"It was a complete surprise," commented Fannin. "I had no idea. It was a shock that I got it." 
Coleman and Fannon may have been the headliners for Dos Kloskas, but the other team members were also recognized for their contri­butions to the championship cause. 
Brothers Mike and Jeff Kloska were both named first-team All-Bookstore, while Bert Berry made the All-Holtz team. 

Or more importantly, find out what y~u can make at Sun. We're all, including our CEO Scott McNealy, working to make the same thing: breakthrough solu­
tions in enterprise computing. And now, with the creation of The Best of The Best, the ultimate train­ing program for Sales Representatives and Systems 
Engineers, what you make is pretty much up to you. If ...-:-\selected for our program, you'll receive a broad range of exposure and techni­


cal skills development, emphasizing your eventual role. Prove to us you're an outstanding\\1 candidate for our program, based on academic, personal achievements, as well as diversity . ..\~ \And we'll help position you to create future breakthroughs here at Sun. 
~ Not to mention making a success of yourself while you're at it. 
~­

/:~ ~ Systems Engineer . 
Put your technical know-how to work. Ideal candidates for this entry-level, pre-sales position in our sales and marketing environment will demonstrate strong technical apti­tude, an understanding of relationships between computer hardware, software and networks, and a willingness to put forth extra effort to learn both within and outside of work. After becoming knowl­edgeable about Sun's product line and proficient in UNIX®, you will provide technical support to Sales 
Representatives, and assist Systems Engineers on sales calls and on preparing responses to client .-!!'" .. Requests for Proposals. You will also perform product line/basic presentations; maintain and Ji .···,··., support the demo room, software library and loaner pool, as required; review .sales (1Uotes; 
} . •··· and answer Sales Support Desk 1nqUJnes. To qualify, you must have a BS/MS 1n Eng1neenng,:. ).\ ! ·· Computer Science (Systems), superier verbal and written communication skills, exceptional ·..: . ( ~}leadership, analytical and interpersonal skills, and a mature, flexible and innovative workstyle. 
• 

Sun Microsystems, Inc. University Recruiting Dept. CAND429AB/PW 2550 Garcia Ave., M/S: MTV04-118 
sun

Mountain View, CA 94043-1100 Fax: (415) 336-3701 
microsystems http:/ /www.su n.com We are an Equal Opportunity Employer . The network is the computer 
Sun. Sun Microsystems, the Sun logo, Solaris. SunOS, HotJava. and Solstice are trademarks or registered trademarks of Sun Microsystems, Inc. All SPARC trademarks are
Sponsored by S. U.b. 

trademarks or registered trademarks of SPARC International. Inc. Products bearing SPARC trademarks are based upon an architecture developed by Sun Microsystems.
L_______________;_____________. Inc. All other trademarks belong to their respective companies. 
page 12 The Observer· SPORTS Monday, April29, 1996 
.lACROSSE 
Cade, Irish stifle Spartans 
By TODD FITZPATRICK 
Sports Writer 
After two weeks of disappoint­ment, the Irish lacrosse team answered their critics with complete domination. 
Michigan State was Notre Dame's victim on Friday night by a 12-4 score. By winning their first home game of the season, the eleventh-ranked Irish raised their overall record to 8-3. They also remained undefeated in the Great Western Lacrosse League with a 3-0 mark. 
The victory greatly improves Notre Dame's chances of gain­ing a berth in the NCAA tourna­ment. If the Irish win their last regular season game against Ohio State on Saturday, they will earn an automatic confer­ence bid to the twelve-team tourney. There is still an out­side chance the Irish may earn an at-large bid, but that will not be announced until the reg­ular season has ended. 
"We've definitely been in a slump lately. We just needed to regroup, and I think we did that before the game. We got our focus back in gear," said sophomore Jimmy Keenan. 
The Irish played their typical suffocating defensive style, which frustrated the Spartans throughout the contest. Anchoring Notre Dame's de­
fense was Alex Cade. The sophomore goaltender, who played brilliantly once again, made a career-high 21 saves. 
Offensively, Notre Dame found the back of the net early and often against the Spartans. With the exception of a brief lapse during the third quarter, the Irish lit up the scoreboard consistently. 
One hat trick for an offensive unit is impressive, but the Irish accomplished the feat twice. Keenan and freshman Chris Dusseau each scored three goals, which accounted for half their team's points. 
The big assist man for the Irish was Brian Gilfillan, who dished off three during the con­test. Brian Erickson, Jimmy Keenan, and Will DeRiso added one apiece. 
"In the UMass game, we weren't going to the cage. But this week, we were more ag­gressive," commented Keenan. 
Tony Reid opened the scoring early in the first period off an assist from Gilfillan. Michigan State tied the score more than two minutes later on Marc Sullivan's unassisted goal. The 1-1 score in the first period turned out to be the only tie of game. After that point, the Irish took control and never trailed. 
For the remainder of the first half, Notre Dame went on a 6-0 


Are You Prepared? 
WeAre.  
~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  small classes of 15 or fewer free caduceus software free extra help witth your instructor four computer-analyzed diagnostic exams independently verified score improvements guaranteed satisfaction  
,  THE PRINCETON REVIEW  

Classes begin June 8th for the August 17, 1996 test. 

(800) 2-REVIEW 
The Princeton Review is not affiliated with Princeton University or ETS. 

Europe is Calling! 

Travelmore/Carlson Wagonlit Travel is your local Europe Travel Expert 
AIRFARES  Special student & faculty rates Low Airfares to Europe  
RAIL PASSES  Rail passes issued in our office! No Service Fee Timetables, prices & tickets available  
CAR RENTALS  Discounted car rentals  
EXPERIENCE  Over 25 years of sending Notre Dame and Saint Mary's college students and faculty to Europe  

We Know Europe­Let us plan your Trip! 
Gtravelmore CarlsonWagonlit~ 
1723 South Bend Avenue (219)271-2880 -Next to the Notre Dame Campus-

run to lead the Spartans 7-1 at halftime. 
Michigan State's defense held the Irish scoreless in the third quarter. Meanwhile, Jared Miller added two for the Spartans which closed the gap to 7-3. 
Notre Dame answered Michigan State's attempted comeback with a five-goal flur­ry in the final period. 
The balanced offensive attack produced two goals from Dusseau, and one each from Joe Bialous, Keenan, and Brian Erickson. 
"We tend to not play team of­fense all the time. We just need to play a more fluid offense and get everyone involved," said Keenan. 
If Notre Dame's fourth quar­ter scoring is an indication of things to come, the offense is certainly back in gear. 
With one game remaining in the regular season, the NCAA tournament is just around the corner. This part of the season is the best time for a lacrosse team to peak, and the Irish hope another winning streak has just begun. 

Intensive Italian Summer Language Program June-July, 1996 

Earn up to Nine Credits in Italian Fulfills Arts and Letters Language Requirement 
Survival Skills for Travel •Grammar •Culture Music •Movies •Art 
ROIT 101, Beginning Italian 6/18-7/2 ROIT 102, Continuing Beginning Italian 7/3-7/17 ROIT 103, Intermediate Italian 7/18-7/30 
Classes meet daily from 9:10-11:20 A.M. Tutorial from 1:30-2:30 P.M. 
Contact:Summer School Director at 631-7282 
MERRILL LYNCH CHICAGO INVESTMENT BANKING 
FINANCIAL ANALYST-MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS: Two year investment banking analyst position involving extensive analytics, examination of a client's capital structure and strategic objectives, research on all relevant industry and competitive issues, and assistance with presentations and special projects. The position requires attention to detail and an ability to hand~e numerous projects simultaneously. Nights can get long, but the work IS rewarding. Each assignment is different, offering the opportunity to learn at an intense and rapid pace. The analyst would be an integral member of the Merger & Acquisitions team in Merrill Lynch's 35 person Chicago investment banking office. 
Candidates should have outstanding academic performance and excellent 
quantitative skills. 

•
Non-Finance related majors welcome. 
Please send or fax resumes, transcripts and Board Scores to: 
Jill E. Bruner Investment Banking Merrill Lynch 5500 Sears Tower Chicago, Illinois 60606 (312) 906-6221 Fax: (312) 906-6261 


Monday, April 29, 1996 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 13 



lJS POSTAL SERVICE 
GET THE MOST FOR YOUR 
$$$$ 

USE THE POST OFFICE To MAIL YOUR PACKAGES HOME 
For your conuenience the Post Office will haue a Mobile "' unit set up by the Hammes bookstore/ Badin Hall to .§ handle PACKAGE MAILINGS. ""'~ f 

HOURS 

• we offer more choices
0 
than any other company. 
~ Thursday, 5/9 
• We offer the best


Friday, 5/10 

prices (as reported by
~ 

I Saturday, 5/11 

the Observer last year) 

0 
~ 
00 
Certified Mail 
Ensure receipt of offi~ cial documents such as tax forms and legal papers. 
• 
For legal proof of sending your mail. The post office records the actual delivery date. 

• 
Certified Mall Is used for mail sent within the United States. Recorded Delivery is used for inter­national mall. 


$1.10 in addition to postage. 
• For an additional $1.10 you'll get a postcard in the mail as proof of who signed for your package and the date it was received. 
Return Receipt
for Merchandise 
Confirm delivery of merchandise 
• You'll get a postcard in the mail as proof of who signed for you're package and the date it was received. 
$1.20 in addition to postage. 

Insured Mail 
Insurance coverage for merchandise. 
•insurance coverage up to $600 for a lost or damaged article. 
Starts at $.75 in addition to postage. 
• For an additional $1.10 you'll get a postcard in the mail as proof of who signed for your package and the date it was received. 
For mail up to 11 oz. $.32 tor 1 oz. $.23 tor each additional ounce. 


HOURS 
~ 

~ Monday, 5/15 Tuesday, 5/16
~ 
I 
0 
~ 
00 




Registered Mail 
Secured delivery for mail with significant value, such as jewelry and stock certificates. 
• 
Absolutely secured mail delivery. Your mail travels safely locked and Is tracked and recorded on signed receipts by postal officials. 

• 
Optional Insurance available up to $25,000 


Starts at $4.85 in addition to postage. 
• For an additional $1.10 you'll get 1..----. a postcard in the mall as proof of who signed for your package and the date It was received . 
Parcel Post 


3·8 Days* 
For packages up to 70 lbs. 
Economical rates 

based on distance. 


page 14 








Krug 
continued from page 16 
commented. "The potential was there." 
It seems that the Irish have been cursed all year long with spinal injuries. Both Dansby and Holtz were sidelined with life threatening spinal injuries that needed surgery. Both were active Saturday, but according to Holtz surgery may not be an option for Krug. 
The Irish have also been look­ing for some outside opinions, and so far it hasn't been good. "We're getting some other opinions," Yergler stated. "We've sent the X-rays already to people that do spine surg­eries and we're getting their opinions on this. The first opinion that we got back right now is that we have a serious problem here." 
If the injury is as severe as thought, Krug's potential for harm may not be limited to just football. 
"If the instability is as it appears I would advise him not to do snow or water skiing and to stay away from any sport in which he might be involved in some collision with his head," Yergler added. 
Blue-Gold Game 

Offense 
Jarious Jackson 8for 19 for 192 yards passing with 2touchdowns Emmett Mosley 3catches for 82 yards and 1touchdown Autry Denson 16 carries for 111 yards Marc Edwards 7carries for 41 yards 
Defense Melvin Dansby 8tackles, 3 sacks for -21 yards Bert Berry 3 4 tackles, 1sack for -8 yards Benny Guilbeaux 7tackles, 2 interceptions A'Jani Sanders 6tackles 
The Observerlfom Roland 



What will you do after graduation? 
Why not help us change lives? 

We care for young children who are abused, neglected, or HIV+. You can help. 
P.O. Box 66581 Houston, TX 77266-6581 Voice (713)529-0639 
casa Fax (713)529-9179 de esperanza 

Applications accepted year 'round. Room/Board/Stipend/Health Insurance. CPR/First Aid certification and training provided. 

fREE RENTAL (.AR

t r 
I I 
~ 
I I I t 
.... 
t 
The Observer· SPORTS Monday, April 29, 1996 
• SOFTBALL 



Miller wins 700th with sweep 
By WILLY BAUER . 
Sports Writer 

Notre Dame's tune-up for the 
Big East softball tournament 
went as planned as the Irish 
swept all four games from 
Seton Hall, giving coach Liz 
Miller her 700th win. 

. Action started Saturday, with the Irish winning both games 7-2 and 5-l. The team bene­fited from the pitching of starters Angela Bessolo, Joy · Battersby and reliever Kelly Nichols. The trio allowed only eight hits and struck out ten on .the way to mowing down the 
Pirates. 

The Irish offensive was out in 
force, pounding out 18 hits 
over the duration of the 
doubleheader. In the second 
game, Katie. Martin came up a 
home run short o£ hitting for 
cycle and in the opener Kara 
McMahon went 4-4. 

Sunday, ·n.owever, gavtl the 
Irish some troubles. Not only did the team have to play in · cold, rainy conditions, but oalso had to battle back in the sec­
ond game. · 

The Hall had a 5-l lead entering the fourth inning before the offensive onslaught of the Irish swept them over. Notre Dame had nine runners cross the plate before Seton Ilall came to bat in the top of the fifth, when the game was all but over. 
The Irish added three runs in the bottom of the sixth to end the game forcing the eight run rule, before the drizzling weather worsened play condi­tions. Bessolo was superb in game one, striking out eight Pirates on the way to her sec­ond win for the weekend . 
"We cat and moused with them.'' explained Miller about the second game Sunday. "We let them score runs that they shouldn't have. It is tough to play four straight games against a team that isn't at your level. You lose focus." 
McMahon, Marten and short· stop Meghan Murray had siz­zling weekends at the plate. McMahon hit .692, scored six runs and batted in eight more. Marten, along with her near cycle, hit an even .500, scoring 
Help build ResNet. 
• 
0 IT Network Engineering seeks two students for full,time summer work. 

• 
Mechanical aptitude required. 


Applicants should apply to Giovanna Edwards room 101 CCMB 
You Are Cordially Invited to Attend... 
eight runs. Both added two doubles to their stellar week­end performances. Murray, always consistent from the plate, hit .461, scoring four runs, had three RBI's and added two triples. 
Bessolo and Nichols were nearly dominating on the mound. Bessolo won both games she pitched, striking out 12 batters and posted a 2.71 earned run average. Nichols pitched in every game Saturday and Sunday, allowing only one hit in her eight plus innings of work. She also struck out six and posted a win and two saves for the Irish. 
After the season finale, Miller planned to give her team a day off before stepping up prac­tices in anticipation of the Big East tournament. 
"We have a lot of work to do this week," said Miller. "We need to get mentally and physically prepared. Final exams will he a factor. because we have to play during study days. It's hard to focus on these things (tournament and finals)." 
Want a Job? Go where the gold is! 
HOT JOB MARKETS USA 
Free info. (800) 722-0845 
All packing boxes, tape & peanuts are SO% off when we ship your items home. UPS, FED EX, U.S. Postal. WE SHIP IT AIL Offer good only at 
MAIL BOXES ETC. 
5776-51 Grape Rd. Indian Ridge Plaza Mishawaka Phone 273-8382 

THE FIRST ANNUAL COBA RECOGNITION CEREMONY 
(To Honor Undergraduate Students in the Areas of Leadership & Academics) 
(. 

on Monday, April 29, 1996 at 5:00p.m. 
in the Jordan Auditorium 
Reception to immediately follow in the COBA Atrium 
-__,....,-···~ :~···--­
Our keynote speaker is Mr. Dave Duerson. Mr. Duer~on !s not only an alumnus, but an active member of the College of Business Administration Advisory Council. He also was an outstanding ·• football player for the Fightin' Irish; a key player for the Chicago Bears Superbowl Championship team and the New York Giants. > Mr. Du,~rsonis currently President of Fair Oaks Farms, Inc. 


Monday, April 29, 1996 The Observer • TODAY page 15 
~EIIIIJII~I ~ErlltJil~l ~EIIIIJII~I 
BLEACHER DAY AT WRIGLEY FIELD -CALL THE CLASS OFFICE AT 1-5136 
BY TUESDAY, APRIL 30 AT NOON IF YOU ARE INTERESTED, SO WE CAN KNOW HOW MANY MORE TICKETS TO TRY TO GET. IF WE GET ADDITIONAL TICKETS, THEY WILL GO ON SALE AT THE INFO DESK ON WEDNESDAY, MAY 1 AT 9 a.m. NO MORE BUS SEATS ARE AVAILABLE. 
CEDAR POINT TICKETS-THESE GO ON SALE ON TUESDAY, APRIL 30 AT 9 
a.m. AT THE INFO DESK FOR $30, WHICH INCLUDES BUS AND PARK ADMISSION. PLEASE DO NOT BUY A TICKET AT THE INFO DESK IF YOU ARE PLANNING TO DRIVE. IF 
FOUR FOOD GROUPS OF THE APOCALYPSE DAVE KELLETT 

1\1" '1!UIR' 
A_ooc., 
\\\~ 1\.Ac._' ~>,.,. N · ~­W£1..1.. l.ool'-1\,-~ou 11 Aw ~m ';),,. m~ f\...urt\"'' Re..\.Jtof.IO,..··· 
&,._,... e.o 1\ f10w P•u...O~ p.u m"J•P. l'lt\"1(.17 lfi_s?!...~.. ): ~e.e.' ""Dit>N ~~t•~ rt\E 
\-:, li'PIT "): \)I Dt' T 
1€-p' 'Sv/l.f-"t>.o I

jov?l lkLoC,.Nt7-€-"jov ) \NIT>IoiYfT'*' \\JIIf!./1 
JOE MARTIN
MISTER BOFFO 




DILBERT 
iJ
,. 

I'l"\ Plt.A~to TO :1 u 0 I STREAMLINED /"\'( ~ ,; '<OU .:
REPORI ANOTt-\E.R BU~IN£.':>5 ~ROCE.55£.5 W~IC.\-\£.0 BA.NNE.Il.. WEEK WHILE 1-()NING f"\'Y li iHE.
:a OF ACCOMPLI5HI'\E.NT5! f"\ANOATOR'<
PARIICIPATOR'< ST'<LE. ~ 
"' 
A.NO /"\'( PROACTIVE. IR..AINING t>.TTITUOE. I All WHILE. 
VIDE. OS? VALUING OIVE.RSII'{.I 
)
\_ 

CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 29 Stimulate, as 47 Hits the road curiosity 
48 Goods for sale1 Grant's 300ration 

successor 49 Russian river 31 Register 
50 Aardvark's treat& Play, as a receptacles

ukulele 51 "Sweet" girl of
32 Ball-and-socket, Irish song11 Mil. command for one 

centers 58 Pasture plaint
33 Conversational 14 Henry Ford's fillers 
59 Senseless only son 60 Eminent
36 "S 0 S!" 15 Half of 37 Casts off the skin 
61 Wayfarer's stop 

Hispaniola 38 Have memorized 62 Pencil wood, 16 Not at home 39 TV Tarzan Ron 
usually 63 Companions

17 "The Winds of 40 "Land--!" War" actress 41 Led Zeppelin's 19 British "relief DOWN
"Whole­station" 
Love" 42Jigsaw 1 Cool, in the SO's

20 Zip, to Zapata components 2 Hue and cry
21-thegood 
44 Corset material, 3 Fashionable(beneficial) 

once initials 23 Nags 
45 More 4 Sinuous 27 Digressed hair-raising swimmer 5 Reynard's quality ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 6 Houses for hoses and hoes 
7 Scarlett's home Puzzle by Patrick Jordan a Fix the outcome 
26 Eat greedily 41 Northern 52 It's "for the9 Shoshonean European money"27 Roasting rods53 Terhune dog28 Addition column11 "The Piano" 43 Wrath 

54 Mauna-­
player 30 Feet bottoms 
44 Grin broadly 55 Baseball's Mel12 Stock market 32 One getting lost 

45 Hindu teacher in the shuffle?
-=-t-7-+.;.-+.:=.+.;..,t~:,:+;+~ stat 56 Prenuptial 
46 Church law
.,...,-+-=-+-=-+-=-+.::.. iiii-:::-E-r.-7+=-B 13 Endured indicator 
34 Sacred song 47 Salon apparatus 

57 Begleys Sr. and 35 Graceful 49 Forearm bone Jr. 
18 Unclothed 
22 Fond du --, paddlers
Wis. 37 Riot queller
-=t:-:+=+:::-f/11~ ~t=:hR 23 Scrub in the tub 

Get answers to any three clues 
-":-+-:-+'='+-+~ 24 Disney mermaid 38 Soft drink nut 

by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420­
-=+7+::::-+.::-+.~ 25 "Here You Come 40 Like fault-line 
5656 (75¢ each minute).
Again" crooner activity 

YOUR HOROSCOPE JEANE DIXON 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY! IN THE  rush job may force you to work  
NEXT YEAR OF YOUR LIFE:  ovenime. An all-out effon will pro­ 
Salt-of-the-eanh types will make the  duce a breakthrough. Reopen the  
greatest gains. Prove that you arc  channels of communication with  
reliable. Although real estate and  your business associates.  
construction deals promise financial  VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22):  
rewards, a conservative approach is  Tactful words will help ~mooth ruf­ 
recommended. Family life may face  fled feathers. Research. including  
special challenges next fall. A  long-dislance inquiries, help you  
romantic panncr pressures you for a  polish a plan. Tite financial news is  
commitment. Be honest if you do  promising.  
not feel ready. Temporary rcstric- LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Seek  
tions will be lifted by Dec. I. A new  the high ground in your dealings  
career approach is favored in 1997.  with others. Self-reliance is favored:  
Be ready to travel on shon notice.  postpone asking higher-ups for  
CELEBRITIES BORN ON  advice. Talking candidly about your  
THIS DAY: counlry music star  goals could draw you and family  
Willie Nelson, actress Jill Clay- members closer together.  
burgh, actress Cloris Leachman,  SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21 ):  
basketball player Isaiah Thomas.  Avoid getting into a financial argu- 
ARIES (March 21-April 19):  ment-you will end up exhausled!  
Your mind needs a fresh challenge.  Potential tax problems can he aven- 
Research projects are favored. Con­ ed if you keep receipts and detailed  
suit a nutritionisl regarding dietary  records.  
changes. You need to tread lightly  SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec.  
when around sensitive people.  21 ): Guard against putting your foot  
TAURUS (April 20-May 20):  in your mouth. Verbal slip-ups  
Lucky breaks come lhrough family  could cost you. Devote more time lo  
or friends. A fresh stan gets you off  wriling projects that will reveal your  
on the right fool. Your actions and  brilliance of thought.  
words louch others deeply. A com- CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan.  
prehensive strategy begins to pay off  19): Being too direct could land you  
in the marketplace.  in hot water. Take a roundabout way  
GEMINI (May 21-June 20):  of getting the job done. Seeking a  
You have the energy to scale the  second marketing or investment  
highest mountain. Co-workers may  opinion could help you double your  
try your patience. Curb your temper!  income.  
Passion plays a big role in your  AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18):  
secret fantasies.  Feel free 10 diversify and experi- 
CANCER (June 21-July 22):  mem. An assignment is completed  
Refuse to let an associate's inepti­ following several delays. A fonner  
tude slow you down. Concentrate on  employer is again at your side. A  
projects you can complete on your  romance with an older person is  
own. A careful examination of your  possible.  
options convinces you to get more  PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20):  
education or acquire new technical  Defer to a loved one's wishes. Stay  
skills.  on top of your work while keeping a  
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): New  partner's feelings in mind. You han­ 
gains accrue from past endeavors. A  die achange better than anticipated.  
•MENU  
Notre Dame  
North  South  
BBQ Chicken Sandwich  Beef Fajita  
Grilled Pork Chops  Baked Redflsh  
Broccoli Quesadilla  Cheese Havioli  
Saint Mary's  

LEADERSHIP DEVELOPMENT CAMPUS PICNIC 



Wanted: Reporters, photographers and editors. Join The Observer staff. 
YOU ARE DRIVING, YOU CAN MEETUS ATTHEPARKGATEAND GETA TICKET FOR THE 
-
GROUP RATE. COOKOUT AT STONEHENGE -TIDS WEDNESDAY, MAY 10FROM4:30 TO 7 p.m. COME CELEBRATE THE LAST DAY OF CLASSES WITH US -FREE HOT DOGS, HAMBURGERS, POP AND CHIPS -MUSIC BY TWEAK AND HACE FRIO. 

upper spine which has left him with some instability in that area." 
According to the X-rays there is a fusion between the first vertebrae and the base of the skull and another between the second and third vertebras which have caused an instability in his neck. 
"We've got X-rays that look like we have a very serious problem here," Yergler added. "If you have an injury to the spinal cord at that level it's either death or total body paralysis just like (actor) Christopher Reeve." 
Since his arrival to Notre Dame in 1993 Krug has played in the shadow of class­mate Ron Powlus. It wasn't until Powlus' injury in the Navy game last season that Krug saw substantial play­ing time. 
He led the Irish to victories over Navy and Air Force to end the regular season and despite a strong showing in the Orange Bowl against Florida State the Irish fell to a late rally 31-26. Krug completed 14 of 24 passes for 140 yards and threw for three touchdowns. 
During that game Krug took some big hits, including one that sent him to the sidelines. Yet, it was his ability to take such hits and still play that led to Holtz claiming Krug as his most durable quar­terback. 
"You look at all the collisions he's had while he's been here, we're just extremely thankful that we haven't had 
The Observer/Rob Finch 
a catastrophe on our hands," Yergler 

Junior quarterback Tom Krug faces the possibility that a spinal cord condition he acquired at --------------=--.,...------:-birth may end his college football career at Notre Dame. see KRUG I page 14 


SPORTS 
page 16 Monday, April29, 1996 
Rare spinal condition jeopardizes Krug's career 
Doctors not sure if Krug will ever play football again 
By THOMAS SCHilDT Associate Sports Editor 
Almost to the day last year Melvin Dansby was diagnosed with a serious neck injury that threatened his career and his life. Last Friday Dansby was stronger, healthy and preparing to play in the final Blue-Gold Game of the spring, while Irish quarterback Thomas Krug's nightmare had just begun. 
"Tom Krug had a sore neck and they X-rayed the neck and found that where he hurt his neck is not a problem," Holtz said. "They found that two vertebrae were meshed together at birth, it was something he was born with. Whether he'll play again I just don't know." 
Team physician Dr. Willard Yergler went on to explain the injury. According to Yergler. Krug sprained his neck in the first Blue-Gold game on a hit from Dansby. After a bout of neck spasms the following day doctors decid­ed to take X-rays of his neck. 
"The injury was not of any sig­nificance," Yergler explained. "The area of his neck that he sprained was at the base of his neck, and that was OK on the X-ray. But the X-ray showed he had a congenital abnormality in his 

Dos Kloskas powers to victory in April showers 
Coleman seals 
Mr. Bookstore 
with final shot 
By TIM MCCONN Sports Writer 
Another year, and sadly enough, another end to anoth­er Bookstore basketball tournament. 
The twenty-five year anniver­sary of the famed five-on-five tourney has come and gone once again. And once again, the commissioners faced the difficult task of determining the post-tournament awards. 
Moreso than any other, the
.._ 
award that everyone anxiously awaits to hear of is Mr. Bookstore. Going into yester­day's finals, those selecting the winner still had not been able to make a definitive choice. The game between Dos Kloskas and Showtime provid­ed more ambiguity as to who would claim the coveted award. 
That is, until the very end. 
By stepping up at the end of such a hard-fought game and hitting a clutch twenty-two foot gamewinner, Pete Coleman of Dos Kloskas sealed his place in the annals of Bookstore Basketball as the 1996 Mr. Bookstore. 
Despite being ice-cold through the large part of the 
see AWARDS I page 11 
vs. Ohio State, May 4, 3 p.m. 
Softball 
Big East Championships, May 3-5 
Baseball

-
vs, Pitt, April 30, 3 p.m. 



Giant-killer Showtime falls one victory short of title 
By BETSY BAKER Sports Writer 
The shower of rain that fell on Stepan courts yesterday set an ironic stage for what would follow. In a game that can often be tainted by intimidation and arrogance, there were no flashy plays, no trash-talking, and no controversial calls. Nothing but good clean basket­ball. 
In fact, the championship game of Bookstore XXV be­tween Dos Kloskas and Show­time was so clean that their two sets of fans stood under­neath the same basket. 
"It was just a classy end to a great tournament," Senior Mike Kloska of Dos Kloskas said. "They [Showtime] are the classiest team in this tourna­ment, and we're just glad to have the opportunity to play them in such a great game." 
It was a Bookstore fan's dream yesterday as the two teams took the court, preparing for what would be one of the most evenly-matched games of the tournament. In nearly ev­ery key element -team chem­istry, rhythmic offense, relent­less defense, and most impor­tantly intestinal fortitude -the two teams mirrored each other. 
Both Dos Kloskas and Show-time have played together for three and four years respec­tively, including the all-senior Showtime, and had one goal on their minds heading into the Silver Anniversary of Bookstore -the win the crown. The one perceivable distinction in the game was Dos Kloskas' size advantage, which was definite­ly a determinant in their 21-19 victory. 
"I don't think you could have asked for two better teams or a better game," Tournament Most Valuable Player Dan Fan­non of Dos Kloskas said. "We just never lost faith and stepped it up in the end." 
The bad weather also played a factor in the game, however, and equally hindered both teams. As the two teams slipped and slid all over the asphalt courts, the rain slowed down the overall tempo of the game. 
"The weather actually hurt both teams," Showtime's Travis Brown, who was named 2nd­team All Bookstore, com­mented. "It hurt us because of our quickness, but it worked against them too." 
"It would have been a more exciting game if it hadn't been raining," Fannon added. "We actually talked about moving it to the Bookstore, but we just 
see BOOKSTORE I page 11 

• Baseball team suffers weekend losses 
Men's Tennis 
see page 10

NCAA Regionals, May 10-12 Women's Tennis 
• Lacrosse back to its winning ways 
NCAA Regionals, May 3-5 
see page 12 

• Coach Liz Miller reaches milestone see page 14 






