... 

Friday, September 13, 1996 • Vol. XXX No.lS THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Friday Feature Nobel laureates visiting ca01pus 
By BRAD PRENDERGAST 
News Editor 

If the athletic power is on full display Saturday at Notre Dame Stadium, then the brain power will be even greater on campus this weekend. 
Nobel Prize winners Eric Wieschaus, a 1969 Notre Dame graduate, and Ireland's Seamus Heaney will deliver presentations during appearances in honor of distinguished faculty. 
Heaney, the 1995 Nobel laureate for literature, will read from his poetry as he gives the annual Joseph M. Duffy Jr. lecture at 8 p.m. tonight in the auditorium of the Center for Continuing Education. 
Wieschaus, also a 1995 laureate, will deliver the 
see NOBEL I page 4 
Gottlieb now faces criminal charges 
By MIKE DAY A.sistam Spons Editor 

Doug Gottlieb's days of sunning himself on the beaches of California may be put on hold. 
The sophomore point guard, who claimed to have left Notre Dame this summer to play closer to home, now faces criminal charges in St. Joseph County, according to Prosecutor Michael Barnes. 
On Wednesday, Barnes filed a Class D felony

Stadium readies for first home game 
charge against Gottlieb, who, if convicted, could receive six months to three years in jail and a fineBy DEREK BETCHER 
of up to $10,000. The 20-year-old resident of
A~1istam News Editor 
Tustin, Ca., is accused of charging $900 on thn credit cards of three Dillon Hall residents.
Progress continues 
Notre Damn Stadium is still Notre Dame Stadium. The 60,000 By DEREK BETCHER Gottlieb's lawyer, William Stanley of South Bend,fans aw~nding Saturday's home football opener will be the first to 
Assistant News Editor 

made a deal with Barnes that Gottlieb will surren­confirm that tlw eorn of the House that Hoekne Built hasn't been der on Monday prior to his initial court appear­scarrt>d hy I 0 months of intensive construction and demolition. 
Attendees of Saturday's home football 
ance. Thus, a warrant for his arrnst will not beScall'olding. bare girdp,rs. and a looming 20-row concretp, exten­opener will be assaulted by the magnitude issued.
sion scrnam of Notre Dame's bmak with tradition, but students of construction work that has been done, by The three sophomore students who reported theand alumni PXpeeting to experiencn massive changes have <tnoth­
the jumble of equipment and materials 
incidents to the police include Patrick .Johnson ofnr 12 months to prnpare themselves. 
.remaining from work still in progress, and Goshen, Ind., S. Joseph "Joe" Hand of Monroe, 
see WORK I page 12see STADIUM I page 4 see GOTTLIEB I page 6 

--~ -~-~ --~--================::::;--] 

3·7 pm. 3:30-5 p.m. 4:30p.m. 6:45p.m. 7:00p.m. 7:30p.m. 
8:30a.m. 8:30-12 p.m. 
10·10:30a.m. 
10:40-11 a.m. 
11:30-12 p.m. 12-12:45 p.m. 12-1245 p.m. 1:10pm. 1:30p.m. 
8:00, 10:00, & 11:45 
Frida_y1 ~pi~~~ t:J_____ Football Weekend Social GatheringThe Morris Inn Patio Center lor the Homeless Alumni Tours (C.H.A.T) Meet at the Main Circle Marching Band Rehearsal Step off-Peace Mem. Fountain Band Steps oil lor Pep Rally Band Building PEP RALLY! JACC Arena, enter Gate 10 Soccer: NO men vs. W. VirginiaAlumni Field 
Saturday, $.~-Pt'~~-~@.r...t~. ,_ . .. ·-·-....! 
Marching Band Rehearsal 
Loftus Sports Center The Alumni Hospitality Center welcomes all alumni and friends 
Joyce Center. North Dome PomPon Squad (10:00) and Cheerleader (10:15) Performances 
Notre Dame Bookstore PomPon Squad (1 0:40) and Cheerleader (1 0:50) Performances 
JACC North Dome Glee Club -Notre Dame in Review 
Joyce Center, North Dome Shenanigans Performance Joyce Center, North Dome 
Marching Band Concert Main Building (Step off at 12:55) Marching Band Pre-game Show at the Stadium BEAT PURDUE! NOTRE DAME STADIUM 
Sunday, Septe111ber 15_____.....l 
Mass Basilica of the Sacred Heart 

Kirk: Alcohol rules will be enforced 
Editor's Note: This is the third in a three-art series focusing on alcohol policies at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's. Today, we focus on University enforcement ofalcohol policy. 
By LIZ FORAN Editor-in-Chief 
On the eve of the first home game of the year, where spirits tradi­tionally run high and liquor sup­plies run low, rumors of new atti­tudes by campus authorities toward alcohol consumption have floated to student ears. 
But some smell trouble wafting in on the winds of change. 
"There is no more important issue in Student Affairs than the issue of alcohol." said Bill Kirk, assistant vice president for student affairs at the Campus Life Council meeting Monday night. 
"When you think about what problems or issues are facing col­lege students, alcohol is a perenni­al problem. Every student would recognize that," he added in an interview Thursday. 
Security will be more active in enforcement of du Lac polices per­taining to student alcohol use this year, he said. The drinking situa­tion has gotten worse in the past few years, he added, and the University needs to reevaluate its approach to alcohol policies. 

Some of the concrete shifts in tightening up regulations concern open containers of alcohol around campus, drinking in the stadium and tailgating. 
"Students should expect that we will not tolerate use of alcohol in the stadium," Kirk said. 
He stressed that increased enforcement was not a prelude to im-plementing a dry campus poli­cy. 
"There's been no talk of that," he said. "I don't have an agenda." 
In fact, Kirk claims that no new policies need be added -that cur-


Drying Out? 
Part 3 of 3 
rent regulations are adequate for the University and for the stu­dents. 
"We just need to allocate a little more attention to them," he said. "They can adequately deal with this issue." 
see ALCOHOL/ page 10 
Drinking at Notre Dame may become a little tougher this year, after University offi­cials have decided to enforce more strictly all drinking regu­lations. At Saturday's game, ushers will be on a heightened alert for stu­dents smug­gling in alco­holic bever­ages 



------------~-­

page 2 The Observer • INSIDE friday, September 13, 1996 
• INSIDE COLUMN • WORLD AI A GtANCE 



A freshman 
learns the 

ropes 
I never fully realized the impact of first impressions until I came to Notre Dame. Long-time veterans of . . 
the college experience Saskia Sidenfaden promised me many News Copy Editor things. I was assured gruesome weather, unrecognizable cafeteria food, studying broken by nights of drunken splendor, and cramming for killer fifty-page research papers. Most of these are true, but isn't there something more to college life? 
My visions of a party were confmed to over­planned "gatherings" over liquor raided from our parents' bar stash, afterwards refilling the half-empty vodka bottles with tap water in the hopes that no one would notice. 
Then I came to college... My first party included a less discreet clientele. Some stu­dents had actually set up full-fledged bars complete with a qualified "bartender," pass­ing-out couches, and a dance floor slick with spilled alcohol. Other rooms were crushed with people, bouncing off each other like mar­bles in a pinball machine, to the tunes of Bush. I was amazed to see empty boxes of Busch beer stacked outside dorm doors. So I knocked, and invited myself in ... 
Rumors abound that college cafeteria food is palatable only to college students. Notre Dame alumni had assured me that the food was only good on game days-when the folks were in town. 
Granted, the cuisine can never equal mom's home-made lasagna, but then again she isn't cooking for over 10,000 students. Personally, I was amazed by the tremendous selection, particularly the supermarket-size line of cere­als. At last I can have Raisin Bran, Golden Grahams, and Corn Pops all at once . 
I can't say as much for the cafeteria at my high school. I won't disgust you with gory descriptions of cafeteria food chez moi. Two words to "live" by: pack lunches. 
As for studying in college, I have to agree. I have never read so much material in my life. High school was a breeze of cut-and-paste collages, group tests, and late-night study groups degenerating into "Friends" sessions. You could scratch off your homework in a matter of minutes, in time to soak up the last rays of sunshine. 
I went to bed at 1 a.m. to prove I could cope without sleep. In college, I'm lucky if I get to bed before 2 a.m. and I would gladly turn in at 12 a.m. if I didn't have 400 pages of read­ing. And it isn't even fmals yet!! 
Fortunately, these aren't my best first impressions of life here at Notre Dame. There is something intangible here, at the University, that cannot be ignored. A college friend of mine once told me that college "lev­els the playing field." Of all the comments about college life, this is perhaps the most accurate. 
I'm not sure what happens between the summer of senior year and your first year in college, but for some reason freshmen in col­lege are perhaps the best people you will ever meet. Gone are the petty prejudices, cliques, and grudges of high school. Like you, no one knows a soul; no one knows the ropes. Everyone introduces themselves over a drink, during class, after practice. You can be confi­dent that they are as clueless as you. They too will miss a class; they too will oversleep, they too will fail a test. No one is there to tuck you in at night, do your laundry, or hold your hand. 
Isn't it great? 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 


News Viewpoint Michelle Krupa Tom Snider Brad Prendergast 
Sports Production Tim McConn Maureen Hurley Graphics Michelle Krupa 
Brian Blank Lab Tech Accent David Murphy Dan Cichalski Ashleigh Thompson 

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
Hurricane Fausto Scrapes Tip of Baja California 
CABO SAN LUCAS, Mexico Hurricane Fausto roared 


Hurricane Fausto
toward tourist resorts at the 
As of2 p.m EDT Tuesday
tip of the Baja California peninsula Thursday night, pounding the beaches before 
Position: 21.3°N, 11 0.7°W
luxury hotels and threaten­
Moving: NW at 10 mph
ing heavy flooding. 
Sustained winds: 120 mph
Restaurants and shops 
were closed by dusk in this tourist resort, their windows taped or boarded against the sporadic but heavy squalls that flooded the town's streets. 
High waves rose from a cobalt-blue sea to thunder against the beaches, their spray blown backward by tropical storm-force winds. 
The storm's approach kept children away from school during the day and drove fishermen to port along the lower half of the peninsula. 
By evening, the center of the storm was about 90 

Perot running mate not on ballot 
FRANKFORT, Ky. 

Ross Perot's running mate, Pat Choate, will not be on 
Kentucky's ballot in November, Secretary of State John Y. 
Brown III said. The ballot instead will list a stand-in, Carl 
Owenby, as the Reform Party's candidate for vice presi­
dent. Brown, the state's top election officer, said 
Wednesday that it makes little difference since voters 
actually choose a slate of electors to cast Kentucky's eight 
votes in the Electoral College. "Since it's the electoral 
votes that count, should Mr. Perot win Kentucky, the 
electors can choose. the new vice presidential candidate 
as his running mate," Brown said in an interview. Choate 
is an economist from Washington, D.C. Perot announced 
his selection Tuesday night, four days beyond Kentucky's 
deadline for ballot certification. Ballots must be printed 
by Monday, 50 days before the election, under state law. 
Brown estimated that three-fourths of the counties have 
printed them already. Kentucky permitted stand-in can­
didates for parties that held nominating conventions after 
Aug. 13, the state's deadline for ballot petitions. 
Nominees could be substituted until Sept. 5, when candi­
dates had to be finally certified by Brown's staff so coun­
ty clerks could begin printing ballots. Owenby was the 
vice presidential stand-in candidate in other states. 
Whitewater partner remains jailed 
LITTLE ROCK, Ark. 

Lawyers for Susan McDougal asked a judge to free her 
from jail, saying she will not change her mind about 
answering questions before a Whitewater grand jury 
about President Clinton. "Continued incarceration in con­
nection with this civil contempt action would be punitive, 
rather than coercive," lawyers Bobby McDaniel and 
Jenniffer Horan said in a request filed in U.S. District 
Court Wednesday. McDougal, President Clinton's former 
Whitewater business partner, was jailed Monday for con­
tempt for refusing to answer questions last week from 
Whitewater prosecutors about Clinton and a $300,000 
loan. She faces up to 1 1/2 years behind bars unless she 
relents. "Susan McDougal has had sufficient time to 
'reflect upon' her decision, and she has not changed her 
mind. Nor will she do so in the future," the lawyers said. 
McDougal, 41, was convicted in May of obtaining a fraud­
ulent $300,000 loan. 


5 Day South Bend Forcast AccuWeather"'forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 

The AccuWeather®forecast for noon, Friday, Sept. 13. 
Lines separate high temperature zones for the day. 
FRONTS: 
............................. ~ 
COLD WARM STATIONARY 
CO 1996 AccuWeather, Inc. 
Pressure 
H L 


HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY Via Associated Press 
Arlington Hgts. 66 43 Columbus 65 52 New Orleans90 70 Atlanta 81 57 Dallas 96 69 New York 73 63 
~ ~ 
.:..:..:. ~ ~ Baltimore 72 54 Denver 78 50 Phoenix 90 72
~,~,~~ ~ --­
~~~-~· 

Showers T-storms Rain Flurries Ice Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy Boston 68 61 Fort Wayne 65 46 Pittsburgh 65 49 Via Associated Press GraphicsNet Chicago 65 44 Los Angeles 84 59 St. Louis 71 50 
NYC clamps down on beggars 
NEW YORK 

Panhandlers would have to stay at least 10 feet away from automatic cash machines and couldn't wash car windows without the driver's OK under a proposal approved by the City Council Wednesday. Mayor Ruldolph Giuliani, who has called for steps improving New York's quality of life, was expected to sign the mea­sure, passed on a 34-12 vote. It is similar to laws enacted in Washington, Baltimore, New Orleans and Dallas. Opponents complained that it would victimize needy peo­ple and trample on Constitutional rights. Supporters said too many New Yorkers-particularly the elderly-are being intimidated by panhandlers who refuse to take "No" for an answer. A main target of the legislation is aggressive panhandlers at banks, who hound customers after they make cash withdrawals at automatic teller machines. The bill also provides new legal tools to prose­cute notorious "squeegee men," who pounce on motorists stopped at traffic lights and try to extract cash donations by cleaning their windshields -whether the driver wants it or not. Specifically, the proposal would outlaw conduct by panhandlers that would make a "rea­sonable person" fear for his or her safety. 
Jewell Lawyers Press for Documents 
ATLANTA 

Lawyers for Richard Jewell have made a second request to see sealed FBI documents that detail how the security guard became a suspect in the Olympic park bombing. "Essentially, we're seeking access to docu­ments that we think we're entitled to get," attorney Jack Martin said Wednesday. Jewell's motion to see the court documents came on the same day "The CBS Evening News" reported the FBI is now tightly focused on one suspect who may have a tie to militia groups, but no con­nection to Jewell. Martin originally asked for the docu­ments' release Sept. 3. The Justice Department then filed a motion opposing the request. All the motions are sealed. Jewell was working as a security guard at Centennial Olympic Park when a pipe bomb exploded July 27, killing one person and injuring 111. Jewell was originally credited with being the first to spot the knap­sack containing the bomb, but was named a suspect three days later. 

250 miles 
~ 
250 km 
AP/Carl Fox 
miles southwest of here. After stalling briefly, it had begun to move toward the north­northwest near 5 mph and was expected to gradually veer north, then northeast across the peninsula and toward the Mexican main­land. 
The force of the storm declined slightly during the afternoon, to about 105 mph from 120 mph, and further weakening was expected. 
A hurricane warning was in effect all along Baja California Sur from the 25th parallel south. The Mexican govern­ment posted a hurricane watch for the mainland from Guaymas south to El Dorado. 
Rain from Fausto began falling about noon, said Veronica Vela, an employee at the Hotel Hacienda Beach Resort in San Lucas. 



Friday, September 13, 1996 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS page 3 

Remember to 



share the warmth 
in the true 

Notre Dame spirit. 
Contact the Hammes Bookstore or the Center for Social Concerns for details. 
PROJECT WARMTH 
CHESAPFAKE 
BAGEl, MKfJlY. 

•
Fresh Baked Bagels 


•Homemade 
Soups & Salads 

•
Hot & Cold Deli Sandwiches 

• 
Gourmet Coffees 


• 
Cappuccino & Espresso 



Rood 
I N.M... s•. 
5920 Grape Road, Mishawaka, IN 46545 Phone: 219-272-9415 • Fax: 219-272-7775 
r-----------------------, r----------------------, 
: Free Cappuccino 
Buy I deli sandwich 


Specials
& get l of equal or lesser value 
Short-$1.00
FREE. 

Must be presented at time of Tall-$1.50 purchase. Not valid with other offers of promotions. one per With coupon o_nly. Not v~lld customer. Valid only at Grape with Any Other Coupons. lmit 
Roat1. one coupon per customer.
EXPIRES 12131196 

---------------------~-~ L----------------------~ 
It isn't always clear which one of the big six firms is focused on your future. However... 
' , , ~ ., 1 I J / J I I 1 I I I 1 r · I f I i J I I I I I I I I J ' • ' • J 

Saint Mary's graduate returns with 'Grace Under Pressure' 
Barbara Ritter-Henry, Alumnae Board director of relations. 
Students agreed, as they conversed with the alumnae. 
"It's great to have profession­als tell you what to look for as we begin our job search," com­mented senior humanistic studies major Katie Sobeek. 
The second part of the evening consisted of the busi­ness dinner. How to present oneself eloquently while dining was a concern of students in the interviewing process, so the Alumnae Association gave students tips for the table. 
Kevin Kerwin, director of Marriott Food Serviees at Saint Mary's, spoke to the juniors and seniors about proper busi­ness etiquette. 
He went over everything from silverware basics to appropri­ate bite sizes, seemingly minor parts of the interview process which actually make the differ­ence in an interview, accord­ing to Kerwin. 
Part three of the seminar dealt with communication. "Communication has changed so since I was in school," McKenna-Siiney stated. 
She stressed the importance of computer proficiency, and telephone and voice-mail pro­fessionalism. 
The fourth part of the evening consisted of personal image. Talbot's came to the seminar, highlighting business dressing on a budget. Business casual attire was also an issue, as it becomes more popular in many dif­ferent busi­ness settings. 

S a i n t Mary's Alumnae Association continues their efforts, like tonight's, through three differ­ent network­ing programs that are available to students throughout the nation. 
The Bed a n d Breakfast Program, open to Saint Mary's juniors, seniors and alumnae, will connect alumnae with a traveling student or 
The Alumnae Resource

other alumnae who are in the 
Network offers students the

area on a business or a job 
opportunity to detail a career

search. The Alumnae Relations 
path through a computer data­

office will coordinate visits. 
base, a service which is rare in

The networking program also 
colleges, according to Cashore. 

offers a Career Exploration 
Call the Saint Mary's College 

Program which matches 
Alumnae Assoeiation office at

sophomores, juniors, and 
284-4565 for more information

seniors with alumnae who are 
on any of the networking pro­

working in careers that are of 
grams.

interest to the students. 
'·' 
By LESLIE FIELD 
News Writer 
Thtl Saint Mary's College Alumnae Association held the second annual, "Grace Under Prnssure: Your Guide to Profnssional Etiquette" semi­nar last night in Haggar Parlor. 
The idea for the seminar developed when the Alumnae Association came to campus three years ago to determine what thny could do to help stu­dents as they headed into the working world. 
Thn "Grace Under Pressure" seminar addressml a variety of student eoneerns which are typieally not taught in the elassroom. The evening was set up as a four-step process h'd by Saint Mary's graduate Molly McKenna-Siiney '76, for­mer director of Delta Flight Attendants and present chair of the Alumnae Association's networking committee. 

"We felt that this was a posi­tive way to connect alumnae and alumnae, and student and alumnae," said Adaline Cashore of the Saint Mary's Alumnae Association. More than 60 students attended the event. 
The first part of the evening eonsisted of students mixing with alumnae while enjoying an hors d'oeuvre buffet. 
They were asked by MeKenna-Sliney to obtain three business cards from vari­ous alumnae in order to reeeive practice in networking "We feel this is a fun, infor­mative, hands-on experience for students in a non-threaten­ing environment," said 

page 4 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS Friday, September 13, 1996 


Stadium 
continued from page 1 

While structural work is clearly fin­ished for the myriad of concourses and ramps which will feed 20,000 new seats, the expanded areas are far from usable and are off-limits for the 1996 season. What remains for fans to use is essentially the same as it has been for the past 65 years. 
Security concerns brought on by play­ing a half-dozen games in the midst of a construction zone headline the short list of changes students will experi­ence. 
"If people respect the fences, it'll be a safe weekend ... For the most part, stu­dents will have everything available to them that they had last year," Mike Smith, the University's director of facil­ities engineering, asserted. 
Perceptions that a logjam will form as the entire student body converges on Gate E to enter are unfounded, accord­ing to Smith. He points out that although construction has limited sta­dium access to just four points, each of the functioning gates is many times wider and larger than those used in the past. Furthermore, additional openings have been created in the original exterior wall to allow fans to pass more easily from the outer to the inner concourse. 
Fans will be greeted by a stadi­um interior that differs only slightly from the one they left last November. The six-foot wall mounting the original stadium's external wall remains in place until next fall. Topped by another four feet of chain-link fence, it completely divides the current seating from the expanded areas. Beneath the new enlarged 40' by 40' concourse ringing the sta­dium, barricades, gates, locks 

and partitions have been erected to keep anxious fans out of the four stair­well towers and four elongated ramps that will eventually funnel crowds to the expanded seating. . 
"We're really trying to keep people out of the upper decks. We want to reinforce with everybody that the upper deck is off-limits this season," Jeff Cerney, Casteel Construction's pro­ject manager, said. 
Few of Saturday's spectators will mis­take the coarse 10-foot combination for anything other than a barricade. 
For Notre Dame Security as well, aes­thetics were a second concern to safety. 
"It's going to be a little different, hav­ing a football season in the middle of a construction zone. These fenced-off areas are dangerous and are extremely non-public. We'll be enforcing that," Director of Security Rex Rakow said. 
Although not directly related to the construction, Security also announced a renewed effort to curb illegal drink­ing within the Stadium. 
"We'll be monitoring closer than ever before," Rakow warned. 
The increased diligence will start with ushers, who will begin conducting better inspections of fans entering on Saturdays. Violators caught drinking or with alcohol inside the Stadium face expulsion from the game and an ensu­ing notification of Student Affairs. 
"We are serious about it," Rakow said. 


Nobel 

continued from page 1 
Emil T. Hofman address Saturday at 10 
a.m. in 101 DeBartolo. 
Wieschaus, the first Nobel laureate from Notre Dame, will offer an account about his journey from the days as an under­graduate to winning the Nobel Prize last October. 
Wieschaus shared the Nobel Prize in medicine with Edward Lewis of the California Institute of Technology and Christiane Nusslein-Volhard of Germany's Max Planck Institute. The trio were hon­ored for their work in the genetic control of early embryonic development. 
"When I was a young scientist, I was just so thrilled to be in the lab, so excited to do experiments," Wieschaus said upon receiving the award. "During that time, in the late 1970s, I never really thought about a Nobel," 
The experience of being notified was amazing, Wieschaus said. 
"We were asleep when there was this phone call. This man spoke to me in a Swedish accent. I thought he had the wrong number," said Wieschaus. "Maybe he did, but they're not going to the fruit fly, well-known to generations by biology stu­dents, as the bq.sis for their experiments. 
Wieschaus and Nusslein­Volhard iden­tified a num­ber of genes that are key in determining the body plan and Wieschaus the formation of body segments. 
Lewis, who worked independently, investigated how genes could control development of individual body segments into specialized organs. 
Heaney and Wieschaus were honored at a ceremony Dec. 10 in Stockholm with the year's other winners. 
Wieschaus, currently the Squibb Professor of Molecular Biology at Princeton University, was inducted with University Provost Nathan Hatch into Phi Beta Kappa, the nation's oldest and most respected academic honorary society, last 

take it back." r-------------------------,
Wieschaus and his University of Notre Dame Department of Music two colleagues used 
presents 
A Faculty Viola Recital 

ehtlstlne ~utled~e, IJloltt 
with 

C:Zhomas Sauet, pta11o 
Works by Shostakovich, Brahms and Hovhaness. 
Sunday, Sept 15 Annenberg Auditorium 2:00p.m. The Snite Museum of Art 
The concert is free and open to the public. 

Don't order pizza 




without this! 
Use any of these deals with no coupon necessary! 

Friday, September 13, 1996 

The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS page 5 

Not even rain can dampen Dillon spirit 
T
wo Dillon 
Hall stu­
dents scurry to protect band equpiment from a downpour during last night's pep rally on South Quad. 
T11e Observer/Brei! Hogan 



Trutnan Scholarship 
Information Meeting for 
Juniors interested in Public Service 
Monday, September 16, 1996 4:30, 5:15PM 11 7 O'Shaughnessy Hall 

...with more information it should become clearer... 

Four new professors join SMC, enjoy first few weeks 
By DONNA MIRANDOLA 
News Writer 
While 1996 welcomed many new students to Saint Mary's campus, the year also brought new professors to the college. 
This year Saint Mary's College welcomes four new professors to the faculty ­Professors Nancy Morris and Barbara Johnson-Farmer of the nursing department, Professor Betty Buelow-King of the social work department, and Professor Amber Katherine of the philosophy department. 
All of the new professors have been extremely pleased with their experiences at Saint Mary's College so far, and are looking forward to what the future may hold. 
The professors were aware of the reputation of SMC and eager to begin the new year. 
"I was interested in Saint Mary's College because I saw that it was a great environment and I was impressed overall with the College," said Morris. 
"I was attracted by the fine reputation of Saint Mary's College and its commitment to teaching. There are few insti­tutions where teaching is prized, encouraged and men­tored like it is here," said King. 
$25.00 Special* 
2 California 36 Tanning Bed Sessions 
+ 
2 Dual Reflector Non­Quartz Facial Bed Sessions 
+ 
2 VHO Euro Capsule Sessions 
*one offer per person please 
Fun Tan Inc. University Commons (219) 272 -7653 
The new faculty members were also very impressed with the high caliber and personal motivation of SMC students as well as the level of intelligent conversation in the classroom. 
"The students are positive, bright and intellectually curi­ous. There is also a strong sense of morality and respect both between students and towards professors," said King. 
Morris added, "The quality of students is much higher here than at other institutions. There is a definite motivation and interest towards acade­mics." 
"I was impressed with the students' preparation and desire to pursue ideas and think for themselves. The level of engagement in the class­room is rich," stated Katherine. 
The atmosphere in the class­room and all around campus has been positive and enjoy­able for the new faculty mem­bers. 
"Everyone is so helpful here. You are not a number here like you are at other institutions," Morris said. 
"People here are genuinely concerned about how you feel and what you want to do. It's little things here that make the big differences." 
'96 for $96 
Unlimited Tanning until December 31, 1996 for $96.00 
Unlimited tanning bed packages may be upgraded for $2.00 per ses­sion. You may prepay 10 upgrades furS 15, however, these upgrades expire at the time your unlimited package expires. 
Fun Tan L.L.C. 526 W. McKinley Ave. (219) 256 -9656 


UNIVERSITY CLUB OF NOTRE DAME 
Is accepting membership applications for ND, SMC, 
& 
Holy Cross Faculty· 
and full--time staff. 
Dues = $50 per year 
Call631--4678 for membership applications or for more information 
'J t I I I J I I I I 

-~---~~-----­


I 
page 6 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS Friday, September 13, 1996 
Rounding out the theft charge is a bill of over $300 at
Gottlieb 
continued from pagel 

Conn., and Christopher S. "Scott" Thomas of Hamburg, N.J. 
The case filed by St. Joseph County states: "Each of the men indicated that their credit cards had been taken from their rooms without permis­sion and replaced without them knowing about it." 
Gottlieb is charged with using Hand's credit card to purchase a $440 gold bracelet at Rogers & Hollands jewelry store in University Park Mall, Mishawaka. 
"I don't really like the guy, but I have no hard feelings towards him," said Hand. 
The Observer/Staff 

\ 
"He has a problem, and I understand that. But he is 20 years old, so I really feel he 
Twilight Tailgate brought out a crowd to 

should get what he deserves." 
enjoy some great food, including some cot­

Gottlieb is also accused of 
ton candy, and conversation in anticipation 

purchasing $100 worth of
of the coming weekend. Even the young­

merchandise at the Spiece
sters got into the act, as this tyke (below) 

store on Grape Road in
received a surprising taste of a snow-cone. 
Mishawaka. 

• Silver Rings 
Dole pushes for debates 
ByTOMRAUM 
Associated Press Writer 
WASHINGTON 
Negotiators for Bob Dole and President Clinton opened debate talks Thursday with the Dole camp proposing four one­on-one hour-long presidential face-offs and two vice presi­dential exchanges. 
The Clinton team did not respond directly to the Dole proposal although a senior campaign official, speaking on the condition of anonymity, later called it "a clever propos­al but not serious." 
The negotiators broke off talks after about two hours to await a recommendation by the Commission on Presidential Debates on whether Ross Perot should be part of the debates. 
Commission Co-chairman Frank Fahrenkopf promised a recommendation on Perot by noon Tuesday. 
The privately financed, non­partisan commission has spon­sored presidential debates since 1988. 

University Hair Stylists 
Full Service Unisex Salon Located in the Basement of LaFortune Over 9 5 years of Experience Fiberglass nails!! 
Open 
Monday..Friday 9:00 a.m...9:00 p.m. Saturday 9:00 a.m...4:00 p.m. 631..5144 
r ---------, Retail Center offering a : $1.00 off for :wide variety of professional I Freshmen 1 products including Paul : exp. 10/13/96 : Mitchell, Nexus, Biolage,L---------.J and Redkin 

Spiece with Thomas' credit card. 
The transactions took place between April 25 and May 5, but the three students were not aware of the problem until they had gone home and received the bills. 
Two of the incidents were reported earlier this summer, and police were notified of the third one about two weeks ago. 
According to court docu­ments, Gottlieb was positively identified on videotape as the person who used the credit cards in both incidents at Spiece. 
"He called and apologized to me, and he said it was noth­ing against me," said Hand. "He really sounded sincere, but I'm not sure if he thought it might help him in court." 
Gottlieb is currently attend­ing Golden West Junior College in Huntington Beach, Ca., but is not expected to play for the school's basketball team. 
• 
Hip Huggers 

• 
Vintage Levi's 

• 
Mexican Bookbags 

• 
Urban Outfitters (retro 60's style) 

• 
Hemp Jewelry 


.--~::-::-::=-::---,
We Buy 

10% OFF M~~~~':,~= 7
Used 
Sat: 10 -6
Levi's 

with student ID closed Sun. 
Just 2.5 mi North of IN state line
THE 

1912 S. 11th, Niles STrLE Belle Plaza 687-9123

CO., INC. 
~ #{&;. 
VISA
• ­
-~­


OUR CHARTS INDICATE THAT YOU SHOULD CONSULT APOSITION 




!-'"-------­
~­

Friday, September 13, 1996 The Observer • WASHINGTON NEWS page 7 
Christian Colalition contributions decline for first time in five years 

By JIM DRINKARD 
Associated Press Writer 
WASHINGTON 
After five years of explosive growth, contributions to the Christian Coalition declined last year for the first time, tax rneords show. 
The bad financial news comes as the conservative reli­gious group gathers here for its annual meeting, a session also dogged by a government law­suit and an investigation by federal prosecutors of billing by one of the group's vendors. 
The conservative religious 

University of Notre Dame International Study Program 




Santiago, Chile 
Information meeting with 
Professor Silvia Rojas-Anadon 
Monday, September 16, 1996 4:30pm 117 Debartolo 
Slide presentation and opportunity to learn more about service projects in Chile. Returning students will be on hand to answer questions. 
WFRN Concert Update 
Twila Paris 
with Special Guests 
Aaron Jeoffrey & Avalon 
SUNDAY, SEPTEMBER 8 
Elco Theater • Elkhart, IN 
TICKETS: $13.50/$11.50 
Tickets on Sale · Monday. July 29 
.,. ..~~; =1~:.. ' "f i~~·' , .~€1;. f;r·:.:'r.•) JD Sumner~ the Stamps r "W: 'l .,. , SATURDAY, SEPTEMBER 14 
First Church of God Goshen, IN

t. ·, 
TICKETS: $8.50 Tickets on Sale . Monday, AugustS 
Kathy Troccoli and 
Phillips, Craig & Dean 
with Special Guest 
THURSDAY, OCTOBER 3 
Morris Civic Auditorium South Bend, IN 
TICKETS: $12.50/$10.50/$8.50 Tickets on Sale -Monday, August 26 
Jim Cole &. Kelly Willard 
TICKETS: $8.50 Tickets on Sale • Saturday, August 21 
Michael Card &. Wes King 
SATURDAY, NOVEMBER 16 
Elco Theater • Elkhart. IN 
TICKETS: $12.50/$10.50 Tickets on Sale-Friday. October 4 
SUNDA~NOVEMBER17 
Kokomo High School Kokomo, IN TICKETS: $10.50 Kokomo. Tickets on Sale 
Friday, October 4 
For tickets call WFRN Radio: 219·674·6626 • 219-875-5166 • 800-522-WFRN 
7 :' 

group reported donations of $18.7 million in 1995-a decline of nearly 12 percent from the previous year, when supporters gave $21.2 million. 
Coalition spokesman Mike Russell said the decline meant little beeause 1995 was a non­election year that gave the group's state affiliates a chance to concentrate on their own local fund raising. Those dol­lars don't show up on the national organization's reports, he said. 
"We're on track for a $24 million budget this year," Hussell said. The actual ligure won't be disclosed to the Internal Revenue Service until next July. 
The coalition claims some 1.7 million members nationwide, but its primary publication, the magazine Christian American, 
Did you know... f 
That you could own a condominium or townhome just minutes from Notre Dame for as little as $379* per month? 
A wise investmentfor students, parents, alumni andfaculty. 
• 
Condominiums and townhomes as low as $56,000 

• 
Perfect for game weekends 

• 
Beautiful waterfront settings .... c:.no~


f.,.'» t:'. 
~~~ 

North Shore Club 
~ ~ g~­~SHO~~

Modtls Opm Daily Sat. & Sun. 12-5 P.M. 
(219) 232-2002
{800) 404-4275 

• Monthly payments of r. and I. based on a pun:haM: price of $1~, 1)90 wirh lO% duwn and a 30-yca.r 7.37'; A.R.lyt. 

.. .ill ERNST& YOUNG LLP 
Learn about maximizing your future with Ernst & Young LLP at the Accounting Career Night, in the Monogram Room on September 18th, 6:00 to 9:00pm 
was sent to 310,296 people inr-----:------------. 
September of last year, the Christian Coalition most recent figures reported. Contributions to the That was down from a Christian Coalition Septembe~. 19_94 "p~id or droppedlastyearfor requested cuculatwn of the first time in the 353,703. group's history 
Russell said those figures also are not significant, because cir-Donations: culation varies as copies of the 21 4Mii!.J,t} magazine are mailed to encour­age people to contribute. 17­
In a separate disclosure, the coalition reported spending 13 _ $5.9 million during the first six months of this year on lobby­
9

ing, including fights against -,.# abortion and gambling and ~ ...f' . ' support for many of the items 5 ~..l....__ in the Hepublican "Contract -~.~~ 
With America." The figure 1 1990 1991 1992 19931"9941"995
ranks the group among the topL..,_____________, lobbying spenders. group's annual conference and More than 3,500 coalition strategy session in Washington members are expected for the this weekend. 

· 
1 
.~ . . : :. 
./·· 
---~----------­
-


Amplifier section 
e Total Power: 115W e Stereo mode: 38W+38W (6 ohms, 65Hz-15kHz, THD 1%) • 3-disc CD Auto Changer • Optical Output • Random I Repeat /Intra Play• Surround mode : Front 35W+35W, Center 30W, Rear 15W • Dolby Pro-Logic Surround • 20-program Music Calendar • 30-program Memocy among 3 discs System • Four Surround Modes • 7-band Graphic Equalizer • 7-band Spectrum Analyzer 

• 
CD 1Tuner 1Tape I VCR 1VD I Aux. Input • Headphone Output • Mic Mixing Function Front Speaker • 3-Way 3-Speaker Bass Reflex System 

• 
Dynamic Super Bas • Source Direct 



• Front Grille detachable 
Cassette Deck section 

Center Speaker • 2-Way 3-Speaker Bass Reflex System 
• Power Loading System • Auto Reverse Double Cassette Deck • Full-Logic Tape Transport e Dolby B 1C NR • Music Search • Auto Tape Selector • Auto Rec mute 

Surround Speaker • 2-Way 2-Speaker System • Tape Dubbing • Auto Play /Intra Play • Continuous Play (Tape 1 +Tape 2) 
Remote CQntrol • 45-Key Full Remote Commander Tuner section 
• 
FM 1AM Stereo Tuner • Auto Station Memocy • 30 ch Random Preset Memory 

• 
Station Name Preset • Daily & Sleep Timer • Timer Recording 


Amplifier section 
• 45 W + 45 W • 5-mode Graphic Equalizer • 4-band Spectrum Analyzer • CD I Tuner I 
Tape I Aux. Input • Headphone Output • Mic Mixing Function • Karaoke Function 

DENON DC30 MINI SYSTEM
• Dynamic Bass • Super Wide Stereophonic 
Cassette Deck section 
• 
Auto Reverse Double Cassette Deck • Full-Logic Tape Transport • Dolby B Noise Reduction • Music Search • Auto Tape Selector (Normal/ High) • Edit Function 

• 
Tape Dubbing Function (Normal Speed) 


Tuner section 
• FM I AM Stereo Tuner • 12FM, 12AM Preset Memory • Daily & Sleep Timer • Timer 
Recording 
CD Auto Changer 
• 6-disc CD Auto Changer • Front Loading Mechanism • 16-program Music Calendar • 16-program Memocy 
Speaker 
• 
3-Way Bass Reflex Speaker System 

• 
Max. Input Power 50 W 

• 
36-Key Full Remote Commander 


Remote Control 
DENON DC1 MINI SYSTEM 

Amplifier section 
e 15 w + 15 w • 5-mode Graphic Equalizer • CD I Tuner /Tape I Aux. Input 
e Headphone Output • Mic input and Mixing Function • Dynamic Bass 
• Super Wide Stereophonic Remote Control 
• 36-Key Full Remote Commandar 
Cassette Deck section 
e Auto Reverse Cassette Deck e Fuli·Logic Tape Transport • Dolby B Noise Reduction 
e Music Search • Auto Tape Selector (Normal/ High) • Edit Function 
Tuner section 
• 
FM I AM Stereo Tuner • 1OFM, 1OAM Preset Memory • Daily & Sleep Timer 

• 
Timer Recording 


CD Auto Changer 
• 6-disc CD Auto Changer • Front Loading Mechanism e 16-program Music Calendar • 20-program Memocy 
Speaker 
• 2-Way Bass Reflex Speaker System • Max. Input Power 25 w 
.-----------------------------­
~----­

Friday, September 13, 1996 The Observer· INTERNATIONAL NEWS Page 9 
Iraq continues to 'makes statement' by firing in no-fly zone 
By WAIEL FALEH 
Al.snciated Press Writer 
BAGHDAD, Iraq 
Iraq and the United States moved eloser to a showdown Thursday, with more U.S. fire­power sent to the Persian Gulf, Iraq daiming missile attacks on American jets and both coun­trills spitting harsh rhetoric. 
After almost two weeks of eonflkt. naeh sidn seemed will­ing to raisn the stakes but nei­tlwr looked prepared to make a dndsive move. 
Iraq said it fired missiles at 
U.S. warplanes over a no-fly zonn for a second straight day Thursday, hours after accusing Kuwait of an "act of war" for agreeing to open its airfields to Amerir.an jets. 
Pentagon officials confirmed that Iraq fired three surface-to­air missiles Thursday, but said they were aimed at an area near the southern "no-fly" zone where allied aircraft were not flying. 
"We had nothing in the area. Clearly he released them only to make a statP.ment," a mili­tary official said on condition of anonymity. "There were no (radar) tracks," indicating guid­ance systems were not left on long enough to direct the mis­siles to an intended target. "It took a hard search to find them." 
For days, Iraq has reported firing on U.S. and allied aircraft in the no-fly zones in the north and south. The only other con­firmed attack came Wednesday, when Iraqi forces fired a mis­sile at two F -16s in the north­ern no-fly zone. That missile missed its target. 
The United States responded by sending four B-52 bombers and eight F-117 fighter planes to' fortify the some 200 aircraft in the region. The Pentagon also said a second aircraft car­rier, the USS Enterprise, will join the USS Carl Vinson already in the Gulf. 
Kuwait agreed to let the United States base some of the American jets on its territory, a move Iraq's Deputy Prime Minister Tariq Aziz called "a flagrant act of aggression against the people of Iraq and an act of war against the Iraqi state." 
U.S. Defense Secretary 

Alu~nni-Senior Club Presents 
P.S. Dump Your Boyfriend 
Friday Septe111ber I 3th Doors open 8:00 PM 





Kickoff Explosion Start the football season off right 

One of the best college bands in the Midwest 
Open Saturday Right after the game 
Fourth flnnuol Emil T. Hofmon Lecture 
William Perry, in Washington, 
called Aziz's comments "rash" 
and "totally unacceptable." 
"U.S. military forces do not pose a threat to Iraq," he said. 
But, noting that American forces moved into the area in force only after Iraq invaded Kuwait in 1990, Perry said: "If there is any challenge to those forces, we have the responsi­bility to protect them. The United States will take all nec­essary and appropriate actions." 
Aziz, in a rambling commen­tary run by the official Iraqi News Agency, likened the recent turmoil to the period six years ago just ,before Iraq's invasion of Kuwait. He said Kuwait's rulers were in "evil collaboration with America in con~piring against Iraq's peo­ple. 
He did not say if Iraq would take any military action to counter the Kuwaiti move. 
The past two weeks have seen Saddam undertake his biggest military venture since the end of the 1991 Persian Gulf War, sending troops Aug. 31 into the north to help Kurdish allies rout a rival Iranian-backed Kurdish group. 
With that victory, Saddam effectively wiped out the Kurdish safe haven that the United States and its allies established at the end of the war, giving him control of the north for the first time in five years. 
In response, the Americans showered cruise missiles on Iraqi air defense sites in south­ern Iraq last week and expand­ed a southern no-fly zone set up to protect Shiite Muslims. 
The expanded zone makes it even more difficult for Saddam to move his troops around the region without attracting notice from the U.S.-led air forces, which fly scores of sorties every day. 

The U.S. actions against Iraq received a cool reception in the Arab world, even among part­ners from the Gulf War coali­tion. But Kuwait, which still considers Iraq a serious threat, has been fully supportive. 
A spokesman for U.S. Secretary of State Warren Christopher, who met Thursday with a delegation of ambas­sadors from Persian Gulf coun­tries, said regional support for the U.S. effort remains strong. 
"The coalition remains very much in place and remains very 


''Of Flies and Men: Genes and Embryonic Development of the Fruit Fly'' 
From a Notre Dame Student to the Nobel Prize: A Long Journey 
September 14, 1996 10:00-11:30 a.m (before ND -Purdue game) 

DeBartolo Hall 

Introduction by 

Theodore M. Hesburgh, CSC 
Presented by 
Eric Wiechaus, PhD '69 


1995 Nobel Prize Winner 

much active and engaged," spokesman Glyn Davies. 
After the U.S. missile attack, Saddam immediately vowed to no longer honor the "damned imaginary" zones in the north and south and urged his troops to lire on any U.S. or allied air­craft. 
The Iraqi offensive has sent thousands of refugees fleeing toward Turkey and Iran. Among the refugees, border guards said, were commanders of the Patriotic Union of Kurdistan, the rebel group that Saddam's Kurdish allies -the Kurdistan Democratic Party ­routed from the north. 
Hefugees reportedly told Iran's oflicial news agency that KDP soldiers had executed 25 PUK fighter!; near the border. The report could not Immedi­ately be confirmed. 
KDP leader Massoud Barzani on Thursday denied reports that he was planning to sign a political pact with Saddam. He also condemned Washington's Kurdish policy. 
"Nobody has supported us, including the United States. never," he said. "And now that we are trying to improve rela­tions with Baghdad, I don't understand why (the West) gets so angry." 
Iran said Thursday that 39,000 refugees have entered from northeastern Iraq this week. The United Nations cites lower ligures, but it was clear refugees were continuing to seek refuge in Iran. Iran said aid workers were struggling to provide food, water and med­ical care in temporary border camps. 
French officials said Thursday they were very wor­ried about renewed Mideast tensions and were talking with the United States and Britain. 
France coolly reacted to last week's U.S. barrage of cruise missiles. Paris also refused to help enforce the extension of the no-fly zone. 
Once a major trading partner with Iraq, France has taken a softer position on anti-Iraqi sanctions in recent months. 
ERASMUS BOOKS 
• 
Used books bought and sold 

• 
25 categories of Books 

•25,000 
Hardback and Paperback books In stock 

•Out-of-Print 
Search Service: $2.00 

• 
Appraisals large and small 


Open noon to six Tuesday through Sunday 1027 E. Wayne South Bend, IN 46617 
(219) 232-8444 

, , , , 1 o f 1 1 I f I I f r I f I I I I ; • ~ I I I ' I I
1 1 

-~---------~-~ ~--~ ----~---------~-~-------~ 
Page 10 The Observer· CAMPUS NEWS Friday, September 13, 1996 

input from students." "We need to provide a few gers of trudging off-campus to attempted to drastically alter But student requests for addi­more activities for students." he find a party every weekend, the campus alcohol policy,



Alcohol 

tional social space and alterna­added, stating that if alterna­especially in the wake of a including the prohibition of pri­tives to weekend nights center­tives to drinking were available, drive-by shooting two weeks vate parties in dorm rooms.
continued from page 1 

ing on alcohol were also impe­students might actually prefer ago in the area of St. Louis About 2,000 students gath­
But Judicial Council tuses for the new approach, ti;J.em. Street. ered outside the Dome to President Ryan Mcinerney Kirk said. Rectors are ap­Kirk also pointed to the legali­"Notre Dame is a very resi­protest, many drinking alcohol, questioned other potential proached by freshmen every ty of the University's current dential college," he said. "South waving signs and voicing their motives behind the adjust­year who do not drink and are position on student consump­Bend is not a typical college displeasure. The changes were ments. looking for other avenues of tion of alcohol. Although town. But like any other city, it later revoked by the University. 
"Enforcement has always entertainment, he said. enforcement of underage drink­has its share of crime." Kirk asserted that the been pretty lenient," he said. "That made us sit up and take ing and intoxication regulations Regardless of the University's University had no plans to add "They're making gradual notice," he said. on campus has been typically intentions, Mcinerney would new regulations -only to changes in the alcohol policy. It Students perceive an absence lax, the activities are illegal. still rather have student input adhere to the old ones, and reit­could be seen as a move toward of things to do on campus, or "We need to recognize that into any decision that will alter, erated that there were no plans a dry campus. Gradual attrition are conditioned to looking for a this choice to drink under age is drastically for some, social life to make the campus dry. would be the way to do it." party on weekends, according against the law. Intoxication is at Notre Dame. "Without thinking through 
"This is not a negative system to Kirk. against a University regulation. "There should be a forum or what the students would do to of oppression of student behav­"We need to find other means We have to look at the moral something along those lines," fill that void, it would be irre­ior," Kirk asserted. "We have to of entertainment," he said. implications of that as well. The he said. "Students could offer a sponsible." maintain standards of behavior The expansion of South Dining negative affects of alcohol use valid perspective in forming that are consistent with the Hall and the new daytime hours are pretty clear." (new policies)." 
Go Irish!

mission of the University." for Alumni Senior Club are also Vandalism, rapes and even Mcinerney's concerns could Mcinerney expressed concern positive moves toward more student deaths usually involve have a factual basis in the past. 
Beat Purdue!

about the lack of student input social space as outlined in alcohol in some capacity, In April of 1984, the University into an issue which affects stu­Colloquy 2000, Kirk said, hint­according to Kirk. dent life so intimately. ing that increased space may "Students think that as long as 
"Students received no fore­provide an alternative to drink­they aren't driving, that drink­warning about these policy ing. ing should be allowed," he said. changes," he said. "Decisions "The social space issue will "A lot of things can happen, not Ever since you were alittle boy.... that effect campus life are con­focus some positive attention on just from drinking and driving." 
#13 has been our lucky number!
sistently made without any the issue," he said. Kirk also pointed out the dan-
HAPPY 
21st
If you see 
BIRTHDAY
news happen­
: <C9&A<!3cA91l'~ : 

• IRISH IMPORT SHOP • SEAN!
ing, call The 
a Edison Plaza • 1643 Edison Road
Observer at 
• Next to Jamison Inn • 
Love,
1-5323. 
Mom, Dad, Bill, Meghan,
• I 0 o/o off any purchase • 

• with this ad • Molly, and Daisy. 
7~ ~~ ~ z>~, ~ ~~ th Pet# e~ 7ue4U, ~ ~ eue ~fuu«d ~e«tided 




Beyond Beijing: 
The Education of Girls and Women as Challenge to Catholicism 
Monday, September 16, 1996 from 7:30 to 9:00 p.m. Center for Continuing Education Auditorium 
Re~shmentswUI~~~o_U_o_w_·~~~~~~~~~~~~'~~~~L~I'~~:~~~~~~~~~A~dmh~onh~e. 
Sr. Cathy Campbell 
President of Mother Gurin High School, River Grove, IL 
Annette Kane 
Executive Director of the National Council of Catholic Women 
Dolores Leckey 
Director of Fami_ly, Laity, Women, and Youth for the National Conference of Catholic Bishops 
Maura A. Ryan 
Assistant Professor of Theology at the University of Notre Dame 

The panel will be convened by 
Discussion will be moderated by Todd David Whitmore 
Regina Coll 

The aim of the panel is to generate further dialogue within the Catholic Community on the issue of the education of girls and women as an outgrowth of last year's United Nations conference in Beijing. 
Friday, September 13, 1996 The Observer • POLITICAL NEWS Page 11 

Clinton supports inmate drug testing in rehab programs 
By RON FOURNIER Appealing to the elderly three-day cross-country trip to share of federal jail-building
He also ~I.'~, 
Associated Press Writer 
crowd, Clinton said he protect­solidify leads in key states. funds.
flexed his I*.l-,~Political mus-·.•.·... ~.':;~;.. ed health care for "poor Pueblo is a Democratic strong­The idea requires congres­
~-<~·~~ 

PUEBLO. Colo. cle in tradi-··• ..r ·· women and little babies" and hold that must deliver big for sional approval, and that is not 
Answering a cascade of eriti­tionally ·~, ~f people "in nursing homes." Clinton to carry Colorado likely during the little time left dsrn from Bob Dole. President Hepublican • Harry Truman in 1948 was again. in this election year. Still, like Clinton movf~d Wednesday to territory with -~ the last Democratic presiden­Under the president's latest most of the proposals the bolster his drug-fighting a rally in Sun \ , ·1 tial candidate to win Arizona, anti-crime proposal, states White House has put out in rnsurnn with a warning to City, Ariz., ·"'' \ . "' ... but the Clinton-Gore campaign would be required to establish recent weeks, the drug initia­states: test inmates and where he Clinton narrowly leads in the polls drug testing and rehabilitation tive gives Clinton something to parolnes for drugs or lose fed­bragged now. programs for inmates and point to in the important anti­~~ral eash. about vetoing GOP budgets. Clinton is in the middle of a parolees if they want their crime debate. 


------~--~-----~--------­
page 12 
The Observer • NEWS Friday, September 13, 1996 
Work 
continued from page 1 
by rough empty spaces signal­
ing the work left to d_o. 
From fresh masonry on the 
stadium's north facade to the 
bare skeleton of the unfinished 
press box, home games this 
season will take on every 
appearance of being played in 
the middle of a construction 
zone. 
Casteel Construction, the 
company handling the $50 mil­
lion project for the University, 
finds itself suddenly switching 
gears in the middle of the pro­
ject. 
"Right now, and for the last 
week, we've been in a cleanup 
phase more than anything," 
project engineer Tim Conley 
said. 
"We're getting the site ready 
for 60,000 visitors... 
Preparations are certainly 
keeping us busy," Jeff Cerney, 
Casteel's project manager 
offered. 
The roughly 200 workers cur­
rently on the project have 
spent an increasing amount of 
time affixing signs, sweeping 
up debris, and putting fmishing 
touches on end details like 
turnstiles. 
During the playing season, 
Conly explains, "Our activity 
will be limited, but we won't 
shut down, that's for sure. 
Masonry and roofs on the 
smaller buildings on the upper 
concourse are our goals to 
have done by winter." 
The expansion's architect, 
C.W. Keller of Ellerbe Becket, flew in from Kansas City to sur­vey the efforts being made to ready his brainchild for the general public. 
"It's really exciting to see the 
structure take shape... I think 
everyone will really enjoy the 
place," he predicted. 
The magnitude of the rough structural and utility progress that has occupied contractors hides the multitude of work remaining. Casteel will tackle all variety of forming, trowel­ing, and hammering in the coming months before the sta­dium expansion is complete. 
Nine new bathrooms are to be installed, and the varsity and visitors' locker rooms are to be doubled in size. Souvenir vending areas, upper level con­cessions, and refurbishments to current foodsales areas also remain to be done. 
"Everybody will keep working 
Fed may 
not raise rates 
By MARTIN CRUTSINGER Assiciates Press Writer 
WASHINGTON 
Food and energy costs misbe­haved in August but other wholesale prices actually declined, raising hopes on financial markets that the Federal Reserve may hold off raising interest rates. 
The Labor Department reported Thursday that its Producer Price Index, which measures price pressures before they reach the con­sumer, was up 0.3 percent in August, the biggest gain in five months. 
That reflected a big jump in energy prices, which had been falling for three months, and a gain in food costs spurred by a big jump in beef and pork prices. 
from Mondays to Fridays. 
You'll see a lot more brick, 
block, and construction," 
Cerney said. 
Perhaps even more visible, 
permanent lights topping the 
four corners and press box of 
the Stadium are expected to be 
in place by the Nov. 16 contest 
with Pittsburgh. Requested 
and paid for by NBC, the 
Stadium's first permanent 
lights will eliminate the need to 
continually transport portable 
lights to South Bend to facili­
tate televising dark late-season 
games. 
Considerable remaining work will stem from the new press box. Following the 1996 sea­son, the current structure will be demolished, and the metal frame currently taking shape above it should transform into a three-story state-of-the-art media headquarters. A dou­bling of existing square footage, an entire tier reserved for camera equipment, and the addition of two high-speed ele­vators highlight the proposed plans. 
While the erection of hun­dreds of truck-sized pre-cast support beams is finished, the 20 new rows of seating will require substantial effort to be made usable. A finishing coat of surface concrete has to be smoothed over the entire struc­ture, seating has to be fas­tened, stairs need to be poured, and railings need to be affixed. 
Furthermore, significant demolition of the original stadi­um's scoreboards, upper external wall, and final two rows of seating will smooth the interior bowl's appearance and unite the new with the old. A pedestrian concourse ringing the bottom of the expansion is planned, in addition to increased handicapped seating. 
Final touches will include a resodding and new water sys­tem for the playing field and extensive landscaping around the Stadium's exterior. 
Despite the complexity and sheer size of the project, how­ever, University Director of Facilities Engineering Mike Smith asserts that the project remains both on schedule and on budget. 

Lawyers portray McVeigh as 'too-trusting' 
II • • 
HEAVENLY HAM JOINS .... 
NOTRE DAME AS #1! ••• 
Heavenly Ham scores a Touchdown at every party! Whether you are having a pre-game event or a victory party, call HEAVENLY HAM! 
IRISH VICTORY MENU 
• 
11TOUCHDOWN" -Box Lunch 
(Sandwich, chips, cookie, f!) Coke) ....................•. $5.oo 
• 
11ROCKNE TAILGATOR" -for 12 
(Array of I2 scrumptious sandwiches, I2 delicious cookies 
on one platter. 2# salad of your choice) ................. $59.95 
• 
11GOLDEN DOMER" -Picnic Box for 6 
(Sandwiches, chips, cookies, f!) Cokes} ................. $29.95 
• 
11HEAVENLY HAM OR TURKEY" 
Serves IO-I2 •••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••• $3J.OO 
• 
11HEAVENLY PARTY PLATTERS" 
Wide assortment. Starting at . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . $24.9 5 
Food designer on hand to customize your party. Please order 24 hours in advance. Above .pricing for game weekend and advance orders only. 
Call 288 -4267 to place your order! 
Hours: Monday-Friday 10.-s, Saturday 10-2 
Convenient pickup times can be arranged. 
2307 Edison-1/2 Mile_ East of Stadium v-
J••­
~····:·\ .. 
of evidence is against Nichols, not McVeigh. 
Nichols' lawyers also want separate trials, while prosecu­tors want to try the defendants together. U.S. District Judge Richard Matsch will rule on the request after a hearing Oct. 2. 
McVeigh and Nichols face federal murder and conspiracy charges in the April 19. 1995. bombing. 
• • • •..•,•...• 
~.JI 
.... ~·.; -~ "··· 
By STEVEN K. PAULSON 
Associated Press Writer 
DENVER 
Timothy McVeigh's lawyers sought to portray him as a "bright and engaging young man" whose "political atti­tudes are hardly distinguish­able from the average voter for Pat Buchanan." 
·In court papers supporting 
requests for separate trials in the Oklahoma City bombing case, lawyer Robert Nigh high­lighted the differences between his client and co-defendant Terry Nichols. 
"If Mr. McVeigh's character is not assessed independently of Mr. Nichols', he will be severely prejudiced," Nigh argued in papers filed Wednesday. He said the weight 

ABN AMRO/LaSalle National Bank Andersen ConsultiniEl Andersen & Co. AT&T Bank of America Baxter HealthcS" .ftng Group Cambridge Technology Group Car~,I '-le Dain Bosworth Dean Witter Reynolds First Chicam or tor Company Gene~al Electric GE Capital Servi es ~ neral Reinsurance Corporation J.D. Edwards ey ~ ynch Merrill Lynch Investment Banking Merrill Lyn PriY~ tent Group Moosbrugger Marketing Research Mutual of Omaha NIPSCO Northwestern Mutual Life Oak Brook Bank 
Olde Discount Stockbrokers PNC Bank Corp. Procter & Gamble Prudential Securities Staff Management The Summit Group 

Finance Club 





Career Night 


FriJay, September 13, 1996 

Swiss investigate British claims of stolen Nazi gold 
By BALZ BRUPPACHER 
As">dated Press Writer 
BEHN, Switzerland 
Swiss authorities promised Thursday a full investigation into British government claims that Swiss banks knowingly hnld millions of dollars in gold stolnn by the Nazis during World War II. 
Tho British report has unltHtshnd a nnw round of intnrnational criticism of Switznrland's wartime activi­tins. 
"We have a great interest in sneing that evnrything is laid out on the table," said a Ministry for Foreign Affairs spoktlsman who requested anonymity. 

Parliament this fall is expect­ed to pass a bill that would cre­ate a commission to investigate the wartime role of private individuals, the Swiss govern­ment and the Swiss National Bank, Swiss officials said. 
Tuesday's report by the British Foreign Office said the Nazis stole more than $550 million in gold -now worth more than $6 billion -from occupied countries and hid it in Swiss banks. 
The United States, Britain and France, who knew about the plunder, managed to recov­er only about 10 percent of the gold, much of which had been taken from the 6 million Jews killed by the Nazis, the report said. 
HAPPY 21ST BIRTHDAY MATTHEW j. DUDDY 
LOVE, 
MOM, DAD, 

MIKE & SHANNAH 
The Observer • NEWS page 13 
• WEATHER 



Hortense heads toward northeastern U.S. 
By NIKO PRICE 
Associated Press Writer 
NASSAU, Bahamas 
Packing 140-mph winds, Hurricane Hortense took a swipe at the Turks and Caicos islands and barreled past the Bahamas Thursday on a track that could threaten the north­eastern United States over the weekend. 
In Puerto Rico, where at least 14 people died in the storm Tl.Iesday, residents and work crews continued their arduous cleanup -from sorting through soiled clothing to clear­ing roads and bridges. 
Their misery was compound­ed by widespread water and power outages -about 40 per­cent of the island's 3.6 million people still had no power Thursday -but federal help was on the way. More than 7,600 people were registered at 115 shelters Thursday. 
At 5 p.m. EDT Thursday, Hortense was centered about 730 miles south-southeast of Cape Hatteras, N.C., or about 310miles east of Nassau. It was moving north at 12 mph, with hurricane-force winds extend­ing outward up to 70 miles from its center. 
Heavy surf from the storm could reach southeastern U.S. shores by Friday, and there was a slight chance the storm could threaten Long Island, N.Y., Rhode Island, or Cape Cod, Mass., on Sunday, forecasters said. 
Meanwhile, another hurri­cane was menacing Mexico's n-------..-----,.....-,..----r--, Pacific coast. On the lower half of Mexico's Baja· California peninsula, flights were canceled and ports closed to all vessels as Hurricane Fausto moved clos­er, with sustained winds of 115 mph, up from 90 mph on Wednesday. Thursday afternoon, Fausto was located about 115 miles south-southwest of Cabo San Lucas, on the peninsula's southern tip. Its outer winds were already buffeting the peninsula. The hurricane was moving northward at 10 mph, possibly reaching the south-~,;..__ 

ern portion of the peninsula 
by Thursday night. 
Hortense was expected to continue north and increase speed to 20 mph on Friday, according to the National Hurricane Center in Miami. 
The hurricane pounded the Turks and Caicos islands with 90-mph winds but inflicted little serious damage, and no injuries were reported. In the Bahamas, residents stowed property and boarded up windows for the second time in two weeks ­Hurricane Fran narrowly missed the islands last week ­only to awaken Thursday to sunny skies. 
"Everybody battened up and did hurricane preparations and no one was allowed to go to work yesterday, but nothing happened," said Marion Cartwright, a telephone opera­tor on Great Inagua Island. 
The death toll from Hortense reached 16 Thursday with the discovery of a man's body near the Rio Grande river in the northeastern Puerto Rican town of Loiza. Another body was recovered from a beach in Patillas in southeastern Puerto Rico late Wednesday. 
The storm, which delivered as much as 20 inches of rain, also killed two in the Dominican Republic. Most of the victims drowned. 
President Clinton declared four Puerto Rican towns disas­ter areas, making residents eli­gible for federal grants, low­interest loans and emergency housing. More towns could be added to tho list as Federal Emergency Management Agency officials survey the island. 
Damage estimates for Puerto Rico reached $155 million and were certain to rise, Gov. Pedro Rosselin said. 


TOMMY HILFIGER 

AN ALL-AMERICAN FRAGRANCE 


--~--~------·~--­
page 14 
The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT Friday, September 13, 1996 




VARSITY SHOP 





Located at the Joyce center with 2 locations. 
On the concourse (enter gate 1 or 2) and the :fieldhouse (enter gate 3). 






VIEWPOINT 
Friday, September 13, 1996 

THE OBSERVER 
NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q. Notte Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY'S OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1996-97 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Elizabeth Foran Managing Editon Business Manager Pauicia Carson Matt Casey Tom Roland 
News Editor ........................ Brad Prend<rgast Advenising Manager ............................ Ellen Ryan Virwpoint Editor .................. Meaghan Smith Ad Design Manager ............................... Jed Peters Spons Editor ..................... Timothy Sherman Production Manager ....................... Tara Grieshop Accent Editor ........................... Joey Crawford Systems Manager ....................... Michael Brouillet 
Saint Mary's Editor ................. Caroline Blum Controller .......................................... Tyler Weber Photo Editor .......................... Michael Ruma 
The ObS<rv<r i. the independent newspap<r published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administra­tion of either institution. The news is reponed as accuratdy and objectively as possible. Unsigned edi­torials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief. Managing Editor, News Editor, 
, Virwpoinr Editor, Accent Editor. l'horo Editor, Spons Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. 
Commcruaries.IC"tters and Inside Columns pre!l.ent the views of the authors, and not neccssarlly those 
of The ( lbserver. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's com­munity and to all readers. The free expression of varying opinions through loners is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 
Ediror-in-Chief 631-4542 Business Office 631-5313 Managing Editor/Viewpoint 631-4541 Advertising 631-6900/8840 Sport~ 631-4543 Systems/Marketing Dept. 631-8839 Nl"ws/Photo 631-5323 Office Manager 631-7471 AL·ccm/Sainr Mary's 631-4540 Fax 631-6927 
D•y Edirorll'roduction 631-5303 Viewpoint E·Mail Viewpoim.l @nd.edu c;rnerallnformarion 631-7471 Ad E-Mail observer@darwin.cc.nd.edu 
• CAPITOl COMMENTS 

page 15 

Democrats: Start chilling your champagne 
Dolt~ is so dull, just call ofT the election  Capitol.  And  I can't think of  
On several occasions during my career on Capitol  another better symbol than the  
llill, I would by chance run into "big named" officials  national  headquarters of the  
in thn halls of Congress. Bob Dole and .Jaek Kemp are  American Legion," he said. Dole  

two of the friendliest, authentic people ever to serve in then walked away from the micro­tlw l.ngislative Branch of government. In fact, before phone. Newt Gingrich bBcame Speaker, even he whistled out Nobody knew if he gave the loud and greeted staff members who happened his way American Legion a flag, or was 
whi111 walking alone through to present
================= going
tlw vacant halls on late the flag. Dole sim­nvnning sessions. ply walked away, Ontl day, while I conducted and the Legion's a tour for an ND friend of officers on stage
G c 
mine and his family from did not know what
ary aruso 

Kansas, we happened to run into Dole outside his leader­ship office in the Capitol. Of course Dole would be inter-1~sted in constituents from Kansas. However, we did not tell him until we were about to part. I cannot say tHHJUgh about how polite and kind Dole was to us before he knew that my friends were voters from back home. 
So what has happened to Bob Dole on his way to the presidency that makes him so boring? I, like millions of political junkies across the country, watched both con­vnntions. staged from start to finish. Both Dole and President Clinton accomplished what they needed in order to energize their prospective parties behind their campaigns. Overall, Dole delivered more eloquent rhetoric in his acceptance speech. Yet Clinton had the air of charm and charisma Dole could not match. 
Having met both Dole and President Clinton, I can say that some charismatie magic surrounds Clinton whether you wateh him on the television or meet him in pnrson. lie reminds me of a younger Honald Reagan in his style and mannerisms. Dole still reminds me of the Grinch who stole Christmas. 
llaving admitted to myself that I must give the man a ehance, I forced myself to watch one of Dole's speeches on <:-SPAN. Speaking before the American Legion's national convention, Dole sounded like an amateur comedian trying out a new routine at an open mike night in Pittsburgh. His delivery was choppy. His voice had little fluctuation. llis habit of calling himself "Bob Dole" drove me crazy after ten minutes. 
Dole's (:onclusion was the saddest part of his speech. lie said that when he knew that he was leaving the Senate earlier this year, he had several flags flown over the Capitol on Memorial Day. "I can't think of a better national symbol of our freedom that the U.S. 
to do. Finally, one of them took the flag from the table, read the certificate accompanying the flag, and then 
thanked Dole. who was almost ofT the stage. 
I have seen junior congressional staff members, fresh out of college at the age of 22, make better pre­sentations while substituting for their congressional representative who could not attend an event. A polished and savvy individual would have read the certificate, handed the flag over to the Legion's officers, and connected with the audience by tying his mil­
l 

itary career and legislative career together. Who would have a dry eye in the convention hall if Dole would convey the message that the flag is his way of showing that his heart is always with his brothers and sisters? 
Presidential rhetoric consists of both the spoken word as well as the action taken to complement a pres­ident's message. The public's perception of a presi­dent's actions is the label that sticks with each presi­dent. Reagan had conviction. Carter was weak. Bush was out of touch. While what seems an insignificant flag incident for Dole is the type of event Rush Limbaugh makes a priority against Democrats in an effort to establish the image he wants the public to have of Democrats. Dole's non-action in presenting the flag ranks in ·severity with George Bush's remark that he did not know grocery stores used bar codes during the checkout process. 
Dole goes through the motions of his campaign almost as though he is resigned to the fact that he will lose. He does not inspire, which is the quality Americans want in a president. Today, Clinton leads in 37 states. Following the first presidential debate later this month, Americans will see just how dull and slow­witted Bob Dole can be without a script. By mid­October, watch how Republican candidates for Congress distance themselves from Dole in an effort to J retain control of Congress. On election night in early November, voters on the west coast will once more know who the next president will be before their polling places are closed. Democrats, start chilling your champagne now. 

•  000NESBURY  GARRY TRUDEAU  
IN TOPAY~ £CIJVOO'tN080PY 5NJOYS S&aJI?flY-SOtuHY 9f()(Jt/J Y()(J6UYS? FOR 7H& COU&GI3 70 5URWV&, t<l& HAve 70CUTC05T~! ""'  H&Y, /J055·MAN/I Nl3&1?70 P&&!  /Tf3/IKJTtJK&Ie&TALOT OfRI73P/fCT, &/TH/3R.. \  

Gary J. Caruso, Notre Dame '73, worked at the U.S. House ofRepresentatives for eighteen years and is now a publicist with the International Union of Electronics Workers (IUE) in Washington, D.C. His column appears every other Friday and his Internet address is hot­tline@aol. com . 
• QuOTE OF THE DAY 
"Give me liberty, or give me death." 
-Patrick Henry 

~----~--~~----=-------.--------~-------------------~-----~~.._--au:
___....=---­

Editor's Note: The Observer introduces a new weekly special section that focuses on life at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's. Today, we take a behind-the-scenes look at the Band of the Fighting Irish. 
"Day after day, you just think 'I'm going to band practice,' but every time I run through the tunnel it's just an amaz­ing experience. You think of it as this big legend, and when you're in the limelight, ... you think 'I am in the Notre Dame marching band."' 
Senior Betsy Hodgson reflects on moments perceived dur­ing her past three years in the Fighting Irish Marching Band. The band will open its musical season of supporting the Irish tonight during the pep rally at 7 p.m. in the Joyce Center, but members have felt a spirit pervade their daily practices for weeks now. 
"It's a complete rush," Freshman Sarah Ketchum said. "There's so much spirit involved. It's a blast. It's taken a lot of work -one and a half hours everyday -and I'm nervous, but I'm so excited. We have so much spirit, so much dedication, for our school. How many times other than now can you be with your friends and just start screaming the fight song? Never." 
*-;i6 ISlPIF kllD'JtrJ 
-···
' 
~.··. 


Observer Photos by Rob Finch Story by Michelle Krupa 
Father George Wiskirchen, 
C.S.C. (left), his voice full of animation, calls out the beat to the band mem­bers as they prepare for this weekend. 
Rich Fowler (right), an off­campus senior, belts out the notes of the Victory March while playing his trombone. 







ACC~NT 

Friday, September 13, 1996 page 17 



A PEEl( AT PURDUE 

Facts, figures and tidbits about which you might be curious ­or could care less -but are still, nonetheless, intriguing. 
Purdue Quick Facts 
Location: West Lafayette, Ind. 47907 Founded: 1869 · Total Enrollment: 64,878 (fall 1994, all campuses) Nickname: Boilermakers 
~ 
Colors: Old Gold and Black

THE ALUMNI 
Song: Hail Purdue 

Mascot: Boilermaker Special 280,000 living alumni. lAmong the more famous ones, living or
P
urdue boasts mor«f than dead, are: l'he Shillelagh 
Fourteen miniature gold footballs signifying 
-CrNew York Yankees owner George Steinbrenner (pictured above), was Purdue victories adorn the base of the Shillelagh, the tro­an assistant football coach at 
phy that goes to the winner of the annual Purdue-Notre 
Purdue in 1956 
Dame football game. The Irish have "NO" in 25 such 
-CrTwenty astronauts including Neil Armstrong, the first man to walk footballs. on the moon; Eugene Cernan, the The Shillelagh was donated in 1957 by the late 
last man on the moon; Virgil 
Joe McLaughlin, a merchant seaman and an Irish fan o
Grissom; and Hoger Chaffee 
who brought the club from Ireland.
-CrJiormer U.S. Senator Birch Bayh 
Following each Boilermaker-Fighting Irish football 
-CrNobel Prize recipients Edward Purcell and Ben Hoy Mottelson, game, a football with the winner's initial and the finfJ-1 both in physics 
score are attached to the Shillelagh's stand. 
-CrBasketball coaching legend John Wooden 
-CrSuper Bowl Champion quarter­
backs Bob Griese (Miami Dolphins) (Compiled and designed by Dan Cichalski with help and Len Dawson (Kansas City 
from the Purdue Media Guide and Ashleigh Thompson.
Chiefs) 
Awesome art by Ryan Meinerding.)
r."rl'opeorn Guru Orville Redenbacher 
THE MASCOT II 
The personification of Purdue athletics is celebrating his 38th year in athletic cheer­

ing competition. Three students are select-

PURDUE 
BOILERMAKERS 
THE NICKNAME 
B 
oilermakers was originally intended as a derogatory term placed on the Purdue athletic teams by followers of Wabash College in 1889. Students from the liberal arts school located just thirty miles from Purdue frequently scorned the cultural background of Purdue players who attended a school devoted to the practical arts of engineering and agricul­ture. The Purdue athletes did not mind the term in light of other insults thrown at them, including cornfield sailors, blacksmiths, pump­kin shuckers, hayseeds, farmers, and rail split­ters. The graphic pictured above is a new ver­
...
sion, introduced in March, 1994. It is intended to represent a "forward-thinking, energetic approach." 
THE MASCOT 
T
he Boilermaker Special, the engine depict­ed in the above graphic, is the world's largest college mascot. They actually have a train! Weighing 9,000 pounds and strec­thing 23 feet, the engine is made to look like an old-time locomotive. The current edition, Boilermaker Special V, was unveiled at the 
Notre Dame/Purdue game September 25, 1993, in Lafayette. 
The new mascot was designed by Purdue alumni, local business leaders, and stu­dents at the University. A letter to the editor of the student newspaper in 1939 led to the creation of the first edition of the Boilermaker Special. New editions 
followed in 1953, 1960, and 1979. 
The mascot is said to symbolize 
Purdue's invincibility, immortality, and ingenuity. 
ed to don the costume, provided they meet the 

... 
6-foot, 180-pound size requirements. 
"Boilermaker" or "Purdue" Pete will likely 
make the trip to South Bend this weekend, and 
may tower physically over Notre Dame's 
Leprechaun, Ryan Gee. But Domers will .. 
likely remember the story of David and 
Go Iiath when the two mascots meet on the 
sidelines 
tomorrow. 

J 
' . ->-­
I I • J. • 


ACCE,NT 
page 18 Friday, September 13, 1996 
Weekend dedicated to O'Neill 
F
By TIMOTHY BOWERS on campus, and the O'Neill Accem Writer Hall Staff will converge on South Dining Hall for a formal riday, September 13, dinner celebrating the com­1996, is O'Neill Family pleted dedication. Notre Dame Hall's time to shine. dignitaries expected to attend Today, O'Neill Hall will be the include Fr. Theodore first male dorm dedicated at Hesburgh, C.S.C., Fr. Edward Notre Dame since Grace and "Monk" Malloy, C.S.C., Fr. Planner back in 1969. William Beauchamp, C.S.C., Fr. 
The dedication of O'Neill Hall Richard Warner, C.S.C., and has been anxiously awaited by Dr. Patricia O'Hara to name a the residents of the new dorm. few. Since the students arrived on All of the O'Neill Hall Resi­campus at the end of August, dent Assistants will be attend­O'Neill's Rector Fr. Mark ing the dinner as well. Marilyn Ghyselinck, C.S.C. and the Keough Hall kindly "donated" entire hall staff have reminded three RAs to patrol O'Neill until O'Neill residents of the upcom­the conclusion of the gala. ing special event. After much (O'Neill Family Hall will recip­anxious, enthusiastic anticipa­rocate the favor when Keough tion, the day has finally arrived celebrates its dedication on on Golf Quad. September 27 .) 
Fr. Ghyselinck offered, "After The mood at O'Neill remains hearing rumors about it in the upbeat. Assistant Rector Du­springtime, getting letters ane Jundt commented, "It is a about it in the summertime; historic occasion. We are all after receiving timetables and looking forward to the dedica­invitations since arriving back tion. We are going to be the at Notre Dame, the time of the centerpiece of the first home dedication has arrived and the football game. O'Neill is going O'Neill Family will be here in to be in the limelight." the flesh." Assistant Rector Tom Cum­
The $9 million dormitory was mings shared Jundt's enthu­donated almost entirely by siasm. "It's fitting and appro­Joseph I. O'Neill, III and his priate that we inaugurate the sister Helen O'Neill-Schwab, first new male dorm at Notre wife of insurance broker Dame in 27 years. I feel privi­
-
Charles Schwab. The dorm leged to be a part of Notre was donated primarily in mem­Dame history," he said. ory of the late Joseph I. O'Neill, And the feelings of the stu­Jr. but bears the name O'Neill dents? Fr. Ghyselinck offered Family Hall because it is actu­an insider's perspective. He ally in memory of the entire confided, "Freshmen say that O'Neill Family. Mr. O'Neill and this place is nicer than their Mrs. O'Neill-Schwab will bring homes. They're not used to approximately 120 guests to carpeting all over, air condi­today's events including three tioning, brand new furniture, generations of O'Neill's. and large bedrooms. Now they have it all." What more could anyone ask ' for? Welcome to O'Neill Hall! 

A fter hearing .l"\.rumors about it in the springtime, get­included a timetable for dedi­will bring great returns development, this picture of cation weekend. through our growth," he said. O'Neill Hall's first resident
ting letters about it in 

Beginning at 4:00 p.m., the O'Neill residents will have family will be permanently dis­the summertime; after O'Neill family and their guests, the opportunity to impress the played inside O'Neill Family receiving timetables the O'Neill Hall Staff, and all of benefactors following the Hall. In addition, everyone in 
the residents of O'Neill will blessing of the hall. Bob and the photograph will receive a
and invitations since 

attend a Mass of Thanksgiving his Vice President Rajit Basu personal, complimentary copy. arriving back at Notre at the Basilica of the Sacred selected O'Neill students to A catered reception outside Heart. The celebrant will be give personal tours of the new of O'Neill will conclude formal
Dame, the time of the 

Fr. Edward "Monk" Malloy, dorm to the O'Neill's, events at O'Neill Hall. but the dedication has C.S.C. The homily will be given Schwab's, and their guests. perks will continue for the hall by Fr. Tim Scully, C.S.C. During this time, all residents staff and residents alike. The
arrived." 

Following mass, all will pro­will be in their rooms, doors O'Neill Family has reserved
Fr. Mark Ghyselinck 

ceed back to O'Neill for the hall ajar, waiting to greet guests as two hundred seats at the Pur­blessing by Fr. Malloy. they proceed through O'Neill due pep rally for O'Neill resi­O'Neill Hall President Robert on their guided tours. dents only. So, presumably,
.. 
All of the residents of O'Neill 
Stallman put the weekend in a At approximately 6:00 p.m., O'Neill students will proceed to
Hall will be involved in the 

thoughtful light. "The O'Neill immediately after the tours of the pep rally together and
dedication. Many exciting 

dedication offers a unique op­the dorm, a dorm photograph cheer the Irish together as
events have been planned for 

portunity for the men of O'Neill will be taken in front of O'Neill well.
students. Students received 

Hall to celebrate our new home Family Hall. Included in this Meanwhile, the O'Neill's,
formal invitations to the day's 

with its benefactors. We hope photograph will be the donors, Schwab's, their guests, digni­
festivities from the O'Neill's a 

to show the O'Neill family that the O'Neill Hall Staff, and all taries of the University of Notre 
few weeks ago. The invitations 

their investment in Notre Dame dc;>rm residents. Upon its Dame, rectors from all dorms 
Autumn Canoeing in the St. Joseph River 
Schedule of Events 
4:00 

O'Neill Mass of Thanksgiving at the Basilica with special guests Monk Malloy and Father Scully. 
Following mass Hall blessing and dorm tour. 
6:00 

Dorm photograph and then catered reception. 
7:00 

O'Neill residents get reserved seats at the Purdue Pep Rally. 

Friday, September 13, 1996 The Observer • CLASSIFIEDS page 19 
The Observer acceprs classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. 
Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spac~5. 
Classifieds 
NATIONAL PARKS HIRING­ Need a place to stay on football  Dave Mathews/Black Crowes  Preferred tailgate parking pass  DESPERATELY NEED WASH.  
NOTICES  Positions are now availalbe at National Parks, Forests & Wildlife  weekends? Furnished apartment for short term  1st 1 0 Rows 232-0058  needed lor OSU game. Will pay $$$.Call Matt at (614)469-3605.  GA'S. CALL #2456  
Preserves. Excellent benefits +  rent. Full kitchen, living room, two  JUNIOR PARENT WEEKEND  I NEED 2 STUDENT BOOKLETS  
SKYDIVEII  bonuses! Call: 1-206-971-3620  bedrooms, sleeps 4+. Call 287­ RUTGERS TICKETS AVAILABLE  NEED 2 OR 4 WASH. GAs. FOR  AND/OR  
Experience lhe ULTIMATE  extN55848  4876.  PLEASE CALL 232-0058  PARENTS. HAVE 2 RUTGERS  2 PURDUE TICKETSIII  
of all sports  GAs. WILL PAY OR TRADE.  PLEASE CONTACT  
Training students lor over  ALASKA SUMMER EMPLOYMENT  WILL TRADE 2 PITI GA's OR 2  CALL DAVE@ 4-1913  COLLEEN X3714  
30 years  -Students Needed I Fishing  ROOMS-NICELY DECOR. IN PRI­ RUTGERS FOR 2 PURDUE  
1 hour North of South Bend  Industry. Earn up to $3,000·  VATE HOME, 2 MI. N. OF CAM·  2WASH 20SU OR2BC 2773097  NEED Purdue tix Will pay extreme­ NEED 2 OHIO ST GA'S ­ 
Call lor class times  $6,000+ per month. Room and  PUS. FOOTBALL WKNDS., CONT.  ly well Scott@ 4-1817  WILL TRADE 2 RUTGRS GA'S  
GREAT LAKES SKYDIVERS  Board! Transportation! Male or  BKFST INCL. CALL KIM 277-8340  WANTED: Black Crowes tix ...  + $$  
1·800-351-6617  Female. No experience necessary.  need at least 2 or up to 5. call  NOTRE DAME GA'S WANTED  634-1382.  
1-616-628-4892  Call (206)971-3510 extA55847  House for rent lake Maxinkukee 45  wendy at 243 -9430.  All GAMES HOME  
min Notre Dame 4BD. CA FP  AND AWAY  Need 2 Pitt GA's  
VFW624  EASTERN EUROPE JOBS­ APPL. $650. 317-942-2108  NEED 2 STD TIX BOOKLETS  232-0058  call Sean  
Teach basic conversational English  alter 6-317-942-2408.  CALLGIOVANA@ 1-4872  24 HAS.  x-3311  
Friday night dinners -4:30-8  in Prague, Budapest, or Krakow. No  BUY • SELL -TRADE  
Dancing -9-1  teaching certificate or European  THE PRIMROSE PATH B&B, locat­ Need 3 Washington GAs. Will pay  
All members & guests welcome.  languages required. Inexpensive  ed 20 minutes north of campus, is a  big$$. x3226  TICKET-MART, INC.  NEED 2 PURDUE GA's  
Room & Board + other benefits. For  1905 Victorian with 4 quiet guest  WILL PAY$ 50 A PIECE  
214 U.S. 33 N. -Next to Knight's  info. call:  rooms. Bountiful lull breakfasts.  NEED 2 PURDUE GAs  WANTED: NOTRE DAME GA'S  CALL JON @ 634-1389  
Inn.  (206)971-3680 ext.K55842  "Michiana Now!" Reader's choice  Call Kieran@634-4487  ANY/All GAMES. PLEASE CALL  
as one of  232-0061.  
ATIENTION JAZZ ENTHUSIASTS  Earn extra money in only live min­ "Michiana's Best of 1996".  Needed: One Student Ticket for  Alum needs 2-4 AIR FORCE Tix for  
utes a dayl Carriers needed to  http://www.laketolake.com/inns/prim  Purdue game. x2085  I NEED GA TIXS All HOME  Family  
Now Is the time lor us to come  deliver the Chicago Tribune within  rosepath/directorypage  GAMES.272·6551  612-742-7638 Collect  
together I  the dorms.  616-695-6321  NEED OHIO ST. TICKETS!!  
II you have a passion lor JAZZ, or  Call 664-4302 lor more information.  TOP$$ CALL (219)277-1646  N.D. FOOTBALL GA TIX  
have ever wondered what JAZZ is  ROOMS IN PRIVATE HOME FOR  BOUGHT & SOLD  NEED STUD. TIX & GA'S BAAAD·  
all about. call Curtis at 634-1605  EARN SOME EXTRA$  ND-SMC EVENTS.  WANTED 2 GAs NO VS OHIO S  232-2378 • A.M.  l Y CALL 271-8279  
lor more information.  caring lor 3 adorable children.  IDEAL FOR FOOTBALL WEEK·  CALL COLLECT 215-355-7131  288-2726-P.M.  $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$  
1 or 2 days, near campus.  ENDS.  RON  
ATIENTION JAZZ ENTHUSIASTS  287-9669.  VERY CLOSE TO CAMPUS.  WANTED TO BUY OHIO STATE  Need Purdue tickets. 284-5450  
243-0658.  ND GRAD WILL TRADE HIS 2  OR WASH. VS. ND.D TIX· CALL  
Entertainment Electronics Co.  SWIM COACH-ASSISTANT  TEXAS/NO TICKETS FOR 2 OHIO  DAVE (614)764-7355  WANTED-2 GOOD TICKETS TO  
3509 Grape Ad(@ Classic Stereo)  COACH NEEDED FOR LOCAL  FOOTBALL WEEKENDS  STATE/NO. CALL (313)821-2499  AIR FORCE  
255-1172  AGE GROUP SWIM TEAM. PRIOR  Need Texas tickets lor family who  $50.00 PER TICKET  
Hrs: M-F 11-5 Sat. 10-2  COACHING EXPERIENCE HELP­ ROOM W/PRIVATE BATH IN  ND parents need 2 Purdue tickets.  lives in area. Call Samantha at 4­ (515)266-6038  
You break it, we'll fix it!!!  FUL. CALL TOM AT 289-SWIM OR  QUIET AREA.  Call (630)810-0710.  2550.  
232-0589.  25 MINS. FROM NO.  Wanted: 2 or more GAs @ face $  
THAT PRETTY PLACE. Bed and  219-674-8186.  GA TICKETS WANTED GA  Need Two Washington G.A.'s lor  for home games. 412/352-2219  
Breakfast Inn has space available  HUGE NO FAN DESPERATE FOR  ONLY A LOCAL BUSINESS  family, my tuition depends on it.  
lor football wknds. 5 Rooms with private baths, $70 • $90,  5 GAs FOR RUTGERS. CALL PAT (813)360-2243.  FOR SALE  WOULD LIKE TO PURCHASE 2 OR 4 SEASON TICKETS OR  Will pay HUGE bucksl Call Matt@ 234-8474 Thanks.  Badly need 1 stud. or Ga lor Purduell Danni 271-3696  
Middlebury, 30 miles from campus.  INDIVIDUAL GAMES  
Toll Road, Exit #107,  I HAVE A GREAT· HOPEFULLY  1986 MAZDA 323  ;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;277-1659  FINANCIAL REWARDS AWAIT  MARRIED STUD BKS 4SALE 273·  
1-800-418-9487  PROFITABLE· IDEA FOR A COM­ 4 DOOR, 5 SPEED, A/C,  YOU! Alum seeks happiness &  2331  
PUTER GAME. NEED ASSOCI·  AMIFM CASSETIE, 106 K,  fuzzy school memories. Will gleeful­ 
FREET-SHIRT  ATES TO HELP WITH IT. CALL  EXCELLENT CONDITION.  FOR SALE RUTGER TICKETS  ly pay TOO MUCH $ lor 2 GA tixs.  ##### HEEEELP ME ###II NEED  
+ $1000  TOM 288·5655.  $2500. CALL 272-4562  GA. RUTGERS  OHIO & WASHINGTON preferred,  20SU GAs FOR  
Credit Card lundraisers lor fraterni­ "CHEAP" ............. RUTGERS 272­ but not picky. Please call our busi­ PARENTS!! JOE 634·1356  
ties, soronties & groups. Any cam­ Hundereds of Students Are Earning  85 Escort Wagon 5 speed 76730  7233 RUTGERS.. ..  ness collect, (9·4), & ask for TED or  #############  
pus organization can raise up to  Free Spring Break Trips & Moneyl  miles new muffler new battery runs  JENNIFER. 616-925-0629  
$1000 by earning a whopping  Sell 8 Trips & Go Freel Bahamas  great. $ 700. Call 2730558  ..Need Air Force TICKETS II..  WANTED: ND vs OHIO STATE •  
$5.00NISA application.  Cruise $279, Cancun & Jamaica  Please Call Kelly @ 4x2685  NEED: 5 PURDUE, 5 OHIO  TICKETS SEPTEMBER 28 WILL  
Call 1-800-932-0528 ext.65  $399, Panama City/Daytona $1191  Couch for sale. Will deliver to  STATE, 2 AIR FORCE, AND 2  PAY$$$ CALL  
Qualifies callers receive  www.springbreaktravel.com  campus. 1-5766.  NEED 2 OHIO ST. TICKETS  WASHINGTON TICKETS.  314-770-2223  
FREET-SHIRT  1-800-678-6386  G.A.or S.A. Please call ANNE  PLEASE HELP MElli CALL  
Mac Pwrbk $400,best offer  @634-3847.  SUSAN X4268.  NEEDED: 3 Ohio St. GA's. Call  
FOR A GREAT RATE ON  SOCCER REFEREES Students  X3097  Jason at 4-1035.  
RENTERS & AUTO INS.  needed to referee soccer games lor  NEED 4 GAs lor WASH  WANTED: TICKETS OSU  
CALL RANDY 257-9572  southside elementary school  1986 Mazda 323, 2dr hatchback,  call CHRISSY @ 273-2580  VS ND 614-687-0380 CALL COL­ 
AMERICAN FAMILY INS. ILOST & FOUND I  (Grades 5·8), located near Scottsdale Mall on Miami Street. All games scheduled between 4:00PM and 5:30PM, Monday-Friday, Sept  good condition. Asking $1200, call 254-0488. Who Needs A Bed?  ••••••••***HELP•••••••••••• I am DESPERATE fora TEXAS TICKET!! IIIII Will trade or negoti·  LECT AFTER 9:00PM TOP$ PAID Need 6·8 GA Tix. AIR FORCE  TICKETS DESPERATELY NEED­ED -PLEASE HELP! II Family wants to come to a game lor  
9-Oct.29. $15.00-$20.00 per  2 new single beds for sale!  ate. Natalia x2529.  913-541-3240  my senior year. Please help  
REWARD!! II anyone has or knows  game. Must have referee uniform.  Mattress, Boxspring, and  Would like 2-6 tickets lor any home  
someone who has my black  Call 291-4200 or 291-8731 .  Headboard included. Asking $275  Need 1 OSU ticket  n. d. tickets for sale  game. Please call Brian at287­ 
Jansport backpack with a camara  each. Call Jarrod at  Call Greg at 2318  271 1635  4876. Thank you.  
and datebook inside, I will  SOCCER/X-COUNTRY/BASKET­ 234-7601.  
gladly give a reward lor its return II  BALL COACH Responsible stu­ Will trade ND home game tix  I NEED a Purdue STUD Tix  
Please , I would really, really,really  denVgrad student needed to coach  92 JETIA 67K SSP, CRUISE,  for Texas vs. NO tickets. 288-8418  Call Mike 243-9224  I need 2 tickets to home games for  
appreciate ill I NO QUESTIONS  girls soccer or basketball teams,  SUNROOF,+. $8,500 287-1521  my alum brother. Please help!  
ASKED!!  coed x-country for southside ele­ $$ $$ $$ $$ $$ $$, $$  $NEED OSU, WASH, & AF TIX  
Call 634-1403.  mentary schoool (Grades 5·8),  1992 Nissan 240SX SE. Au\(;.  Band member needs THREE  216-995-1902 5-7 PM EDT M-F  Call Erin at 634-3806  
located near Scottsdale Mall on  loaded. Only 35K miles. $11,800.  WASHINGTON TICKETS for aunt's  216·650-5264 7-9 PM EDT M-F  
WANTED  Miami Street. Practice 1:30-2:30 or 2:15-3:15PM, Mon-Thurs. All soc­ Call233-5409.  visit. Stud/GA. Alyssa x1554  PLEASE HELPIIII  SALE  
cer/BB scheduled between  2 OSU GA's 4 Sale  Need tickets? I have an unsigned,  I need three GA'S for Purdue.  
HELP WANTED· $10.25  4:00Pm and 5:30PM, Monday­ 271-2837  brand-spanking new student  call Brian @ 2182  OSU STUTIX  
Part-time work. Flexible eve. and  Friday. Coach Soccer Sepl 9­ ticket book for sale. Call Dylan at  
weekend hours. No exp. required.  0ct./Basketball Jan-March. Paid  12 Speed touring bike  x2173, and it can be yours today.  Need 1 tic for Purdue  2719387  
All majors welcome. Scholarships  position -Please call 291-4200 or  Kevelar Wave tires Aero bars  Call Dave @ x4798  
available. Info-call282-2357  287-6899 for application.  $175.00 (219)262-3739  I NEED TICKETS  I STILL NEED PURDUE GA'SII  
FOR THE ND-TEXAS GAME  NEED STU BKL TS  MIKE: 243-9403  
WANTED: Black Crowes tlxll  ENGLISH GRAD OR MAJOR:  COMPUTER 4 SALE  $$ CALL TOM @ 634-4522 $$  REG & MARRIED  
need at least 2 or up to 5. call  To read & edit school manuals.  Mac Classic w/ software, modem,  2719387  
wendy at 243 -9430.  Good $-your own time. IHRD 273-1952 8-5 M-F  printer $300 Patti -1329  WANTED: 1 Purdue, 2 Ohio St. tix PLEASE call 243-935711  NO ALUM NEEDS  PERSONAL  
International "lifestyles" magazines  OSU/WASH/AF/AUT/PITI TIX  
needed,'96'.  COMPUTER HELP  Get your genuine  I need GA's for Purdue  CALL MIKE 212-372-7214  COLOR COPIES ON CAMPUS!  
Esp. Asian. I will pay$.  Create layouts, forms, brochures,  Irish Kilts  Call Hank @ xt. 1648  COLOR COPIES ON CAMPUS!  
Carmen 243-9360  etc. for small office. Good pay ­ in time for football season! Hand  Need tickets for N.D.-Texas  COLOR COPIES ON CAMPUS!  
your own time.  crafted, Black watch plaid.  married student tickets for sale. call  Sept.21 Call 1-800-840-3548  The highest quality full-color  
HIGH SCHOOL STUDENTS(3)  IHRD 273-1952 8-5M-F  2711715.  copies are now available at  
NEED TUTORS FOR GEOMETRY,  Call now ............................ 288·0116  NEED 2 OR 4 TIX FOR PURDUE,  THE COPY SHOP  
ANALYTICAL GEOMETRY & TRIG  looking for an outgoing public rela­ •••Hey!... Help me lind two  OSU, OR WASH CALL Blll614­ LaFortune Student Center  
PHYSICS, BIOLOGY, & GENERAL  tions rep. to represent a chiropractic  Washington GAs for my parent's  885-4616  Phone #631-COPY  
STUDY HELP. PREFER TUTOR TO COME TO HOME(5 MIN FROM  center at local health screenings. Paid training. Part time. Average $8  TICKETS  first ND game, calllnga @ X2538  NEED FOOTBALL TIX CALL 233­ Pro-woman, Pro-life?  
NO), BUT OTHER ARRANGE­ -$9/hour. For more information call  DESPERATE lor 4 tix to WASH  5719 FOR BILL· ANY GAMES  Feminists for life will be holding  
MENTS CAN BE MADE 272-8235  (219)282-2828.  NOTRE DAME GA'S WANTED  game (GA or stud). Need to make  their first meeting on Tuesday, Sept  
All GAMES HOME  stud tix into GAs. Offering hand­ NEED 2-4 GA TIX  17 at 7:30p.m. in the esc lounge.  
AEROBIC INSTRUCTOR-Volunteer  Need F student to care lor child PT  AND AWAY  some reward. Call4-35921or  All HOME GAMES.  Find out what we're all about.  
aerobic Instructor needed to work at  in home while I work. Near Notre  232-0058  Ryan.  CALL 276-201 0/288-2877 AFT 5  
Center For The Homeless. II inter­ Dame. Call April289-9914  24 HAS.  Chestnut House B&B,  
ested please call Megan at 271­ BUY -SELL -TRADE  <<>Dave Matthews TiX<>>  NEED2 PUR GA  St. Joseph, MI.  
9342.  COLLEGE COUPONS -the student  TICKET-MART, INC.  Two golden seats lor DMB  WILL PAY WELL  Elegantly decorated home over­ 
coupon book you love to use is  Call Mickey at 1350  call X4856  looking Lake Michigan and only 40  
Cleaner wanted lor 1hr/wk@ $10  seeking a local sales representa­ WANTED: NOTRE DAME GA'S  mins.lrom NO.  
to clean the on-campus apartment  tive! Earn $7/hr. or MOREl Put your  ANY/All GAMES. PLEASE CALL  HEY THERE-My Folks wanna  NEED OSU TIXI  luxuriate in double whirlpools, pri­ 
of two lemale students. Call  sales experience to good use. Must  232-0061.  see the WASHINGTON game, and  WILLING TO BUY OR TRADE!  vate baths, lull breaktasts & hors  
4-4158.  have car. Caii800n67-8393 ask lor  so would my brother, Phass. I'd  CALL4-1440  d'oeuvres served fireside.  
Janet.  I NEED FOOTBALL GA'SI  love to see my mom and dad, and  (616) 983-7413.  
WOMEN ARE NEEDED to deliver  WILL BEAT ANY OFFER!  Phass, but I need to get them  TRADE ONLY • 2 WA GAs for 2  
morning newspapers door-to-door. Earn spending $$ working only 3 or 4 days a week. Call Mike x1186.  FOR RENT WALK TO CAMPUS  CALL243-1287 I NEED 2 PURDUE TIX  THREE tickets. II you can help me out, call 243-9058 and ask for Ed. God bless ya. Oh: We also need 2 tickets lor AIR FORCE--same deal  OSU GAs -273-8379. NO DAD NEEDS TWO (2) GAs FOR PURDUE, OHIO STATE AND  Need to perfect your Spanish? STUDY IN CHILEII mig: 9/16 at 4:30 in 117 DeBartolo  l  
Babysitter Needed. ND/OSU game,  2-3-4-5 BEDROOM HOMES  FUTURE DOMER DYING TO  applies.  WASHINGTON. CALL LARRY  CRAZY?? DEMENTED??  
9/28. Attend family tailgate, watch 1 yr. old daughter during game. Call Matt at (614)469-3605 during day.  232-2595 '78 SILVER ANNIVERSARY CORVETIE, 30,000 MILES.  SEE IRISH FOR HER 10TH B-DAYI PLEASE CALL AMBER x3729  NEED TIX -HOME GAMES 312-951-5008  (219)422-6088 I AM DESPERATE FOR A GA OR STUDENT  WARPED???? WE WANT YOU II Help plan AnTostal. first mtg: sun, 9/15 at 8 pm In the NO room of laFun.  1 l  
NEED PT SITIER M & W AFTER­ $9,500 FIRM.  Need to buy up to 6 PURDUE TIX­ BUYING N.D. FOOTBALL TICK­ TICKET FOR PURDUEII  
NOONS & EVENINGS. PLEASE  CALL 243-0658.  GA or STUDENT. Call Meg @232­ ETS, PUBLIC AND FACULTY  CALL BUFFY AT 243-9038  
273-9512.  7839  SEATS CALll-800-255-2850  see Cl.ASSIFIEOS/ page 21  
~  


~----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------&~~ 

page 20 The Observer • SPORTS Friday, September 13, 1996 
• WORLD Cup HOCKEY 


U.S. overcomes Canadians to force third game 
WHILE YOU LEARN 
A film series offering movies as they were meant to be experienced. Classic films. Big Screen. Bargain price. 
Without losing valuable 
WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 18 

2:00 and 7:00 P.M. study and social time! 
Greta Garbo stars in 
Varsity Clubs of America, South Bend Chapter, offers Notre Dame students a quick and easy way

Anna 

to earn extra cash. 
If you think your parents or a family friend may be interested in exploring the benefits of vacation ownership at Michiana's deluxe all-suite resort, you 
may be eligible to earn $250! The next time you have visitors, stop by VCA at 
$1 Students 

the corner of Main and Edison in Mishawaka to see
LITTlE THEATRE 

what we have to offer. For more information, contact Ron Moser at Varsity Clubs of America, 277-8632. 
line by Bryan Smolinski past Keith Tkachuk and ScottLe Clair scores a goalie Curtis Joseph. Young ended the rally, though, Hull made it 3-1, compli­each scoring into an empty netkey pair ofgoals ments of a heads-up play by in the final 1:08, with Joseph on another former Canadien, Chris the bench for an extra attacker. against Richter Chelios. With Canada set up in­Richter was the difference in By JOHN KEKIS side the United States zone, the third, stopping 16 shots. Associated Press Writer Chelios blocked a shot from the And when he didn't get in the right point by Adam Foote and way, the goalposts did. MONTREAL the puck skidded down the ice Yzerman's deflection attempt 
John LeClair scored twice and toward Joseph. midway through the period Brett Hull added a key goal as Hull, who spotted the play de­clanged off the right post and the United States skated to a veloping, broke behind the skidded along the goal line be­gutsy 5-2 victory over Canada Canada defense, scooped up the fore Richter managed to cover on Thursday night to force a puck just inside the Canada up. deciding third game in the blue line and faked Joseph to Wayne Gretzky had the first World Cup of Hockey champi­his knees before slipping it soft­good chance of the third, hitting onship. ly between his pads at 15:24 for Richter's skates with a shot 
The victory by the feisty a 3-1 United States lead. from the sideboards. The puck Americans set up a dramatic fi­Canada exerted enormous rolled near the goal line, but 
·~­
nale, to be played Saturday pressure on the United States in Richter managed to kick it night at the Molson Centre. the third in a desperate attempt aside. 
The United States played its to avoid another game, out­Moments later, Claude worst game of the tournament shooting the Americans 18-7. Lemieux slammed a hard drive on Tuesday night, losing 4-3 in Canada pulled within 3-2 on a off the goalpost behind Richter, overtime on a goal by Steve power-play goal by Joe Sakic but the puck caromed harm­Yzerman. with 5:12 left. Sakic, standing lessly away. 
It was the first loss for the in front of Richter, deflected a Just how intense the rivalry Americans after four wins, and shot from the point by Eric has become was never more they were determined not to Lindros past Richter's left evident than early in the second duplicate it. skate. period, when 5-foot-10, 180­
The United States ignored the cascade of boos that rained 
•
down continuously from the partisan sellout crowd of 


~CDS 
21,273 at the Molson Centre, jumping to an early lead, set­tling the game in the second period, and letting goaltender Mike Richter protect the lead. 



=--~256-1444 
'LeClair, who scored the game's first goal at 7:06 of the first period, broke a 1-1 tie at 
1:20 of the second period with his tournament-leading sixth goal. 
LeClair, who helped lead the Montreal Canadiens to the 1993 Stanley Cup, disappointed his former fans again, deflecting a shot from just inside the blue 



@ATTENTION © 
[ Quality Hair Care ] Just Call & Say You
* Special Haircut Rates For 
Are A Student
College Students 
256-9585 For

* Haircuts For Only $7.00 
Appointment
(With Student ID) 
Mon.-Fri. 9:00-8:00 

* Shampoo, Cut, & Blow Dry 
Sat. 9:00-5:00 

SPECIALIZING IN ITALIAN CUISINE Southern Italian Cooking at Its Finest Prepared by Francesco and Family An Authentic Taste of Italy Most Romantic Place in South Bend and Mishawaka 
Hours:  WE NEED SERVERS!!  
Mon.-Thurs 4:00-10:00 p.m.  1213 Linconway West  
Fri.&Sat.  4:00-11:00 p.m.  Mishawaka  
(Francesco was chefat ND for 30 years)  

pound Pat LaFontaine slammed the attack, Mike Modano dug the 6-4, 230-pound Lindros into the puck free along the boards the boards, starting a series of and fed Suter at the left point. hard hits that lasted the re­Joseph stopped Suter's drive, mainder of the game. but LeClair pounced on the re­
The first period nearly started bound and slid it past Joseph's ignominiously for the United pad at 7:06. States. Brendan Shanahan sent the 
Defenseman Gary Suter was crowd into a frenzy at 9:23, ty­whistled for a penalty on ing the game on a Canadian Canada's first rush up ice, haul­power play. ing down Gretzky near the Lindros led a rush into the United States goal. American zone, and Shanahan 
But Canada, playing without blasted his drop pass from the its spiritual leader, Mark top of the left circle past Messier, sick in his hotel bed Richter, who was partially with stomach flu, managed just screened on the play. one shot on goal during the The United States, outshot ensuin-g power play and Suter and outplayed in the opening quickly atoned for his mistake. game, held a 14-11 shot advan­
Just as it had in had in three tage in the first period and a of its tournament victories, the 13-8 edge in the second. But United States scored the first Canada had an 18-8 advantage goal, this one on a power play. in the third period to finish with With the Americans pressing a 37-35 edge. 

• 
Coursework, internships & more 

• 
Business programs in 3 countries 

• 
Placement in foreign universities 


ZIMBABWE • ENGLAND • ITALY 
HONG KONG • SPAIN • FRANCE 
SYRACUSE UNIVERSITY o 119 Euclid Avenue o Syracuse, NY 13244-4170 1-800-235-3472 o DIPA@ suadmin.syr.edu • http://sumweb.syr.edu/dipa 


EARN 
~ 
~p~---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
l
hiday, Scpccmber 13, 1996 
The Observer • SPORTS page 21 
l
........... FRIDAY THE 13TH ............ . 
Classifieds 
ITS YOUR LUCKY DAY, 
KEARY CAVANAUGHII 
continued from page 19 
HAPPY 19TH BIRTHDAY TO 
LAWRENCE A. COLLECTABLES 
OUR FAVORITE 
Store and Museum 
UTILE BROTHER AND 
Decorate your room, den, office Notre Dame items -jerseys, programs, pin, etc. Sports and movie celebrities' autographs. Photos matted & framed. Early 1900's equipment -bats, gloves, hockey sticks, game-used shoes, etc. Downtown Mishawaka 109LWE 257-0039 BUY AND SELL 
Kevin Gaffney-We of the SAW trip are very Interested in this storyl Do tell morel 
Hello One Pen I Hello One Pen I Hello One Pen I Hello One Pen! 
2nd floor PW -Thanks for making my birth­day the best one yet! You guys are the greatest! love -"Precious" Sarah 
FELLOW DOMEAII 
CALL THE NEWEST DAWG AT 4-1048 AND WISH HIM A HAPPY BIRTHDAY TOO!I 
........... FRIDAY THE 13TH ............. . 
Sarah-I miss you schnookums! Are you keeping those cups warm for me? I'll find someone to salute you tomorrow. Love, H 
Rosanna--Hey there woman, listen up. The Pooch is back. Prepare yourself. Love, I.P. 
This is war. Peacock! You can't make an omelet without breaking eggs, any cook will tell you thatl But look what happened to the cook I 
C.Gibbs announces the beginning of The Bob Enyart fan club meeting weeknights at midnight. For info, call C.Gibbs at 4-1220. 
In the words of the great Kevin Nealon: 
Doing the bull dance, Feeling the flow, Workin' it, Workin' it!l 
Tenille. Have fun this weekend I love, Brad 
Ah, I feel catalyzed. 

Shouldn't I be at home right now writing a paper about Aristotle? I think so, but oh well. I'd rather ramble on and on right here instead. 
Aristotle. He was one crusty guy. 

I knew it was supposed to rain tonight, Anne, but come on\ Did you have to let it pour like that? Why couldn't you think of the rest of us who had to walk through the pouring rain? 
Karaoke night? Nooo. Karaoke WEEKEND. 
Brian, you think you could make a Turkey Sandrich for me this weekend? I'd really appreciate it. Thanks. 
NO TIME? NO PROBLEM! 
~~~~ ATWORKPROGRAM 
Come to a FREE Information/Registration Meeting at Notre Dame! Date: Wednesday, September 18, 1996 Time: 12: I 0 to 12:50 Location: Lafortune Center, Foster Room 
Contact Jessica at 631-5829 for more information! 
Register by September 19th for this series to start September 25th! Welcome Faculty, Staff and Students! Bring Your Lunch! Payroll deduction Available! Come see yourself 20 lbs. thinner in the Magic Mirror! This series has over 700 lbs. lost since 1994. 
• MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL 
Rockies shell Smaltz in 16-8 drubbing 
Assodawd Pr"'" 
DENVER 
For once, the Colorado Rockies got a chance to beat on John Smoltz and the Atlanta Braves. 
Tormented by Smoltz and Atlanta throughout their four years of existence, the Rockies got a small measure of revenge against both as Ellis Burks hit his 37th homer and drove in five runs in a 16-8 rout of the Braves on Thursday. 
In the past four years the Braves have won 35 of 47 meetings between the teams and Smoltz (21-8) had been 7­0 with 2.58 ERA in eight pre· vious starts against Colorado. 
"They made some mental errors they don't normally make, kicked the ball around in the infield and were not the Atlanta Braves that beat us in the past," Colorado manager Don Baylor said. "It helps when you score six runs in the first two innings against the guy that I think will be the Cy Young winner and continue to score against him when they leave him out there." 
Burks hit a three·run homer in the first inning and added a two-run single in the second. 
"It's frustrating because I pitched the same way I did when I held them to one run in Atlanta," Smoltz said. "I broke some bats, but they managed to drop in some hits where we weren't playing them." 
Burks also stole his 30th base as the Hockies won their fifth in a row, pulling within six games of the wild-card spot. The NL East-leading Braves have lost four in a row and 10 of15. 
Burks became the 19th play· er to hit 30 homers and steal 30 bases in the same season. He also set a team record with 263 total bases, breaking Dante Bichette's mark set last year. 
Bicheite stole his 30th base, leaving him one home run short of the 30-30 club. Neifi Perez got his first big league hit and drove in two runs for the Hockies, won won the sea­son series against Athmta 7-5. 
John Burke (1-0), the third of seven Rockies pitchers, pitched a perfect sixth to earn his first major league victory. 
"We knew Smoltz was going to be aggressive and come right after us,'' Burks said. "I think the home run I hit let some of the air out or those guys and we just piled it on and continued from there." 
Smoltz, 2-1 in his last six starts, was tagged for eight runs and 12 hits in six innings. He has given up 19 earned runs in his last 46 1-3 innings for a 3.69 EHA 
Ryan Klesko, who drove in four runs, and Fred McGriff both homered for the Braves. 
"We have to do a better job than what we did today and that has to do with the whole game," Atlanta manager Bobby Cox said. ''We had bad pitching, bad hitting and we didn't play well in the field." 
Klesko keyed a three-run first inning with his :nrd homer. Chipper Jones doubled with two outs and McGriff was hit by a pitch before Klesko homered oil' Roger BaiiHy. 
Burks tied it with his homer in the first, and put Colorado ahead in the second with a two-out, two-run single. 


page 22 The Observer • SPORTS Friday, September 13, 1996 
•NFL 



Polian seems to be building another winner 
By JOE MACENKA 
Associated Press Writer 
CHARLOTTE, N.C. 

To understand how the Carolina Panthers reached the .500 mark just 18 games into their existence, go back to Feb. 20, 1995. 
That was the day Carolina be­gan what would be an aggres­sive foray into the NFL's market of unrestricted free agents, a journey that's been shaped largely by general manager Bill Polian. 
After engineering the trans­formation of the Buffalo Bills from longtime losers to the only team to go to four straight Super Bowls, Polian helped Carolina make the most suc­cessful expansion debut in NFL history. 
The Panthers, who have a bye this weekend, are off to a 2-0 start in their second season and are tied with San Francisco for the NFC West lead. 
Can a winning franchise real­ly be built that fast? 
"The ultimate test for us will be to go from a competitive team to a contending team, and we're still miles away from that," Polian said. 
"We all realize there's still a long way to go before we're in position to be even thought of as the San Franciscos or the 
I 
Green Bays or the Dallases or the people who are legitimate, legitimate contenders in this league," he added. 
Polian joined the Bills in 1984 as their pro personnel director. He was promoted to general manager the following year. By 1988, the Bills had made it to the AFC championship game, and in another two years, they were in the Super Bowl. 
Polian's track record helped when the Panthers went look­ing for players to start up the franchise. 
"Bill's proven that he's been able to put a club together," said defensive end Mike Fox, who joined kicker John Kasay as the first unrestricted free agents signed by Carolina. "I got the feeling this was a fran­chise that wanted to do it right. When you've been in the league for a few years and you get to talk to guys around the league, you can pretty much tell when someone's committed to win­ning." 
Fox, who played his first five NFL seasons with the New York Giants, recalled Polian's sales pitch. 
"He basically said they want­ed to start with a strong defense and they wanted to build it around me," said Fox, 6-foot-8 and 297 pounds. "It was a nice compliment that 
Volunteers Needed 
t 
for the NYSP after 
school program 
\ 

0 training is Monday, S~t. 16 \\-at 4:30 at the CS 
\ ? ? ?Questions??? G Calll,4432 
SPORTS 
t' 
(] 
t' 0 
It 
I AI 
G 


presented by Notre Dame Communication and Theatre 
631·7361 

they thought I could fill the bill." 
He's done just that, leading the Panthers' defensive linemen in virtually every category last season after signing a five-year deal worth almost $9 million. 
·Fox and Kasay were among a league-leading 17 unrestricted free agents the Panthers signed last year. 
Most of them were on Carolina's defense, which fin­ished the season ranked sev­enth in the NFL, providing the anchor for a team that won seven of 11 after opening 0-5. 
The Panthers have taken a different tack on offense, trying to build primarily through the draft. It began last year with 
Help Lou 
and the Irish 
strike fear 
into the 
hearts of 
the 

Boilermakers by wearing 
"The Shirt 
'96". Stand up, show our unity, show our pride. Wear "The Shirt '96" Notre Dame will win over alii 
the selection of quarterback Kerry Collins as their No. 1 choice and it continued this year, when seven of Carolina's 10 draft picks were on offense. 
"We decided that on offense the focus ought to be on youth," Polian said, "because it takes them longer to grow. On defense we said we could win with veteran guys." 
Of the 11 defensive starters, six are over 31, led by 37 -year­old linebacker Sam Mills. 
Collins, who started the final 13 games last year and com­piled a 7-6 record, has begun 1996 with his two most solid games as a professional. He has completed 30 of 52 passes for 369 yards and two touchdowns with just one interception. 
Halfback Tshimanga Biakabutuka and wide receiver Muhsin Muhammad, the Panthers' top two draft choices this year, also are contributing. In the second half of last week's 22-20 victory over the Saints, Biakabutuka and Muhammad combined for 145 yards; the en­tire New Orleans team had 104. 
While the building plan is producing early results, lack of depth remains a potential drawback. 
"We're in a position where we can't afford a lot of injuries," Polian said. "It's going to take time to develop depth in this organization, but that's certainly to be expected." 


N. MAIN S
THAI RESTAURANT 
ST A 
L invite you to try world class L cuisine, Thai cuisine, the delicate art E that descends from primogenitor. Thai 
cuisine is designed to excite your five senses; sweet, sour, salty, spicy, and IZ32-444S I natural." 211 N. Main St. "The first Thai restaurant in town. We 
South Bend, IN 
Hours 
Lunch 

Mon-Fri llam-Zpm 
Dinner 
Mon-Thu, Sun Spm-9pm 
Fri-Sat Spm-9:30pm 
211 

0 L
-+-_:=-...,A 

---~~~-----~-­

Friday, September 13, 1996 The Observer • SPORTS page 23 
• NFL 
NFL's basement-dwellers can't climb out of 'hole' 
By BARRY WILNER 
AssociarcJ Press Wrirer 
Same time, every year. 
This year, the NFL's worst franchises of the '90s are per­fect. They're 0-8, headed for who knows what. 
The Bengals, Buccaneers, Cardinals and Jets won't all re­main winless in 1996. Tampa Bay plays at Arizona on Oct. 20, and the Jets visit Tempe the next week. Someone will end up with a victory, even if it's the only victory. 
Times have been lean for all four franchises recently. All have known glory -Cincinnati was in the Super Bowl as recently as 1989 -but they've kept company with disappoint­ment, underachievement and high draft choices this decade. 
From 1990-95, the Jets were 35-61, the best record of the fu­tile four, even though they were the NFL's worst team a year ago and might be again this season. The Cardinals and Bucs were next at 32-64. 
The Bengals, despite having the only winning season of the four (9-7 in 1990 when they won the AFC Central), were the most unproductive at 30-66. 
The only other playoff appearance by any of them was iP • 991, when the Jets made it •• 8-8 and lost in the first round to Housto.n. The Jets also were 8-8 in '93, and the Cardinals broke even in '94. 
So there is hope to at least r~ach mediocrity. 
The Jets aspired to a much higher place when they spent $72 million to upgrade the ros­ter after a 3-13 season. But so far, nothing. 
"You couldn't help but think things would be different. We picked up some great guys," 
On the occasion of Yom Kippur 
The staff of Campus Ministry wish the Jewish 111e111bers ofour community 
A Happy and Healthy 5757 




0MPUS MINISTRY 
says Jets cornerback Aaron Glenn, one of their few produc­tive players. ''I'm sure there are a lot of people saying, 'Here we go again.' We can't do that, or the season will be over for us already. 
"A team can lose confidence, but it's a long season and we can't do that. You can be 0-5 and wind up in the playoffs, or be 5.:0 and not get in the play­offs. 
Just about everyone in New York is counting them out, won­dering if they can wind up with the No. 1 pick (and Peyton Manning?) again. People already are calling for coach Rich Kotite's firing. They've been calling for owner Leon Hess to sell the team for years. 
''I'm not going to sit in my of­fice and worry about what took place two seasons ago, or even last season," Kotite says. "We have good people here, and when you do have good people and go through adversity, they bear down and turn it around." 
Good people -or efficient people -is what the Jets have lacked for too long. They tried to hire Mike Holmgren as coach in 1989, but he turned them down and the Jets turned to Bruce Coslet. After four years of inconsistencies that drove the players crazy, Coslet was fired. 
The Cardinals haven't had any better luck with their coaches. They fired Gene Stallings, who went on to win a national championship at Alabama-as pressure-packed a job as any in pro football. They also went after Holmgren, then hired Joe Bugel when Holmgren said no. Bugel, popu­lar with his players and in the community, was fired just as he was getting Arizona straight­ened out. 
In came Buddy Ryan, who promised Arizonans there was "a winner in town.'' He lasted two seasons. 
But the biggest problem for the Cardinals is the front office, from owner Bill Bidwill on down. 
The former personnel direc­tor, George Boone, didn't believe in personally scouting collegians. There is constant turnover among executives, and this year the Cardinals didn't have enough money to sign their top three draft picks until they cut some veterans late in 
IT'S OUR JRD ANNIVERSARY 
Friday, September 20 • FREE ROSES TO THE FIRST I00 LADIES! Saturda Se tember 21 • WIN A DOOR PRIZE! 
MICHAEL PACE Now thru Sept. IS This L.A. hased Comedian is sure to make you laugh. Cateh his hilarious Comedy along with feature aet TROY BAXLEY. 
-AMAZlNGlONATHAr\f 
I 

n 
Sept. 18-22 
"Special Engngement" 

This "Fredtly Kreuger" of Cmnr~dy is faRt heeoming known as the most. m·iginal and bizarre al"l to Pmerge in this era. 
"Add to your football
BOBCAT GOLDTHWAIT 
Sept. 16 & 17 
"Specu.t Engagement" 
2 SHOWS ONLY! Come see the outlandish Comedy of "Boheat Goldthwait". He ha<l his own HBO Special and appears in "Police Academy", "Scrooged", and "Shakes the Clown". 
COMING FROM L.A., he has appeared on Conan O'Brien and has written and performed his own Showtime and HBO Special. 

FUNNY BONE 
......_____ AMERICA'S NO. I COMEDY NITE CLUB ----......1 Group Discounts Available • Call for reservations 
weekend with a trip to the 
Funny Bone Comedy Club 
and enjoy a good laugh." 
training camp. 
"We've got too many histori­ans and not enough pioneers," new coach Vince Tobin says. "Historians worry about what happened in the past. Pioneers are the ones looking to the fu­ture." 
Manning could be in Arizona's future, too. Maybe that would get the fans excited; nothing else has recently, and attendance -except when Dallas is in town -is slipping. 
"I feel sorry for the fans who come out and support us and put up with that type of perfor­mance, but there's still a lot of fight in the guys," linebacker Eric Hill says. "I mean, for whatever reason we put our­selves in a hole and couldn't get ourselves out. It sounds like the same old song, the same old story, but we've just got to keep digging and keep fighting." 
The Bengals used to be bad because they wouldn't dig into the vault. They were considered the cheapest team in the league. 
That's changed, particularly when they picked first in the 1994 (Dan Wilkinson) and 1995 (Ki-Jana Carter) drafts. But Wilkinson has been a disap­pointment, and Carter was in­jured in his first exhibition game. His comeback this year has been anything but special. 
Most years, the Bengals bring in a bunch of youngsters in the offseason as part of their rebuilding. 
It takes those players a month or two to settle in, and by that time the team has a poor record. The Bengals save the core players, add more new guys and follow the same pat­tern the next year. 
A major difference is if that pattern continues this year, coach Dave Shula likely will be fired. 
"I don't take any solace in be­ing patient," general manager Mike Brown says. "We've got to get on track. It's been a bad and disappointing start. 
"It isn't just that we lost. We haven't looked good losing. We've been out of sync. And we've got to get hold of our­selves." 
The Bucs hold an NFL record for futility, losing at least 10 games for 12 straight years be­fore going 7-9 last season. They picked Bo Jackson first in the 1986 draft and he headed for baseball. Even when he got into the NFL, it wasn't as a Buc. 
The Bucs kept Vinny Testaverde as their quarter­back and traded Steve Young. Even though they draft high every year, their only No. 1 pick to become an impact player in Tampa since 1985 is tackle Paul Gruber. 
They've also had bad luck, es­pecially this season, the first under new coach Tony Dungy. 
Entertainment Electronics Co. 
"You break it, we'll fix it!!" 
Car &Home Stereos VCRs • TVs • Camcorders CD Players • PCs 
caii2SS • 1172 3509 N. Grape Road (at Classic Stereo) hours: Mon -Frl: I 1-5 
Sat: 10-2 

page 24 The Observer • SPORTS Friday, September 13, 1996 
• MAJOR lEAGUE BASEBALL 
Belle hits No. 45 as Indians crush Angels 
Associated Press 
CLEVELAND 

Jim Thome and Julio Franco each homered twice and Albert Belle hit his 45th homer Thursday night, powering the Cleveland Indians to an 11-2 rout of the California Angels. 
The three also connected in 

succession against Greg Gohr 
in the seventh inning for the 
Indians, who completed a 
four-game sweep and cut their 
magic number for winning a 
second straight AL Central 
title to eight. 
Thome hit a pair of two-run homers, and Franco added two solo shots. 
Brian Anderson (2-1), 

acquired from the Angels in 
February, allowed two runs 
and four hits over five innings. 
He is the only left-handed 
starter to win for the Indians 
this season. 
Kenny Lofton, seeking his 

fifth straight AL stolen base 
title, had two more steals rais­
ing his season total to 6 7. 
Speed and power gave 

Cleveland a 3-0 lead in the 
first inning off Shawn Boskie 
(12-10). 
Lofton led off with an oppo­

site-field single to left, stole 
second and third and scored 

Happy 18th Brigid Reagan! We miss you! 

as Kevin Seitzer walked on a wild pitch. Thome then drove a 2-1 pitch over the center­field wall for his 34th homer. 
Belle's RBI double made it 4­0 in the fourth. 
California squeezed out two runs in the fourth. Randy Velarde doubled for the Angels' first hit and advanced on a groundout. Tim Salmon drew a one-out walk and went to second on a single to left by Chili Davis that scored Velarde. Salmon took third on a wild pitch and scored on a groundout. 
Seitzer had a two-run single in the fourth and Franco made it 7-2 with his 12th homer in the fifth. 
Belle's homer in the seventh inning was his first since Aug. 31. 
Other game notes: 
Thome's 35 homers are the most by an Indians left-handed hitter since Hal Trosky's 42 in 1936. His 106 RBis are the most by a Tribe lefty since Vic Wertz's 106 in 1956.... Lofton has had two or more hits in 17 of his last 36 games .... Boskie's last complete game was a 4-3 loss in Cleveland on June 7.... California is 1-6 on its 10-game trip. 

Hell's Belles ... 

The Observer/Rachael Sederberg Janice Weiers and her fellow Saint Mary's Belles won decisively last night, 5-0. See Monday's edition of The Observer for the game story. 
Join us for a pre-game brunch 
Saturday, September I4 
9:30 to I I :oo a.m. Shaheen Terrace Haggar College Center 
We'll provide the food and drink. You provide the football cheer! Meet alumnae, students and administration. A good time is guaranteed! 
-t%1'­

~BOOK MARKET I 
Wilshire Plaza+ Mishawaka '6' 219/243-9062 (Former "House of Fabrics" between 
SAINT 

MARY'S "Sam's" &"Waccamaw Pottery") 
COLLEGE 

STORE HOURS Mon-Sotl OAM-9PM I Sun 12PM-6PM
NOTRE DAME, IN 


------------~------.-~------------~--------------------------------------------------------~ ------· 
Friday, September 13, 1996 The Observer • SPORTS page 25 
Molitor swings toward record achievement 
was older. "I don't know how many hits have come in the last five 
'There's just too 

many good things to think about what might have been ... to be sitting here and still be playing with some pretty good things going on, you wouldn't generate a lot of sym­pathy that way. 
Paul Molitor 
years, but it seems like it's been heavily weighted to the back side." 
Unlike so many players who labored to reach statistical plateaus late in their careers, Molitor is swinging his way into history in style. 
.He didn't get to 2,000 hits until a single off Bret Saberhagen on July 30, 1991. But Molitor went into Thursday night's game against Oakland with 1,123 hits in his last six year, a stretch that has included three of his four 200­hit seasons. 
This year, he leads the majors in hits and is on pace to break his personal mark of 
r------------------------, 
I First Stop Party Shop 
I 
I 
12 doors past Hackers Golf on 31-33 No. For all your tailgating needs! 

AXIMUM RISK(R)*12:45,3:30,5:45, 8:00,10:30 
TILDA (PG) 12:35, 2:40, 5:08, 7:15, 9:30 INDEPENDENCE DAY(PG·13) 1:00,4:00,7:00, 1o:oo EMMA(PG) 1:20. 3:55, 7:20, 10:10 
PITFIRE GRILL (PG·13) '1:30, 4:10, 7:10,9:45 ESCAPE FROM LA (R) 12:20. 2:45, 5:10, 7:35, 10:25 LASKA (PG) 12:25,2:55, 5:25 BOGUS (PG) 1:10. 3:45, 7:25, 9:55 HE NUm PROF. (PG-13) 7:55,10:20 
Times valid through next Thursday 
Expires Sept. 30, 1996 
OPEN SUNDAYS 3~035. US3l-33
L _________________ !::~~.~~~2~ _...J 
*No passes 

216 set in 1991, the second-to­last of his 15 years with the Milwaukee Brewers. 
A likely Hall of Farner, he will be remembered as one of the game's greatest hitters no matter where his hit total stands when he retires, proba­bly after next season. 
Yet with his place in history secure, Molitor still holds fast to the blue-collar ideals he learned as a boy in St. Paul, where his mother helped instill in him a love and respect for the game that still drives him. 
Kathie Molitor died of an asthma attack in 1988 at age 
59. She was her son's biggest inspiration, and one of his greatest regrets is that she didn't get to see his final sea­sons, which included his MVP performance in Toronto's 1993 World Series victory and his push for 3,000 hits. 
"She was a huge baseball fan," Molitor said. 
"I often imagine her being a part of seeing some of the things that have happened. She was there in '87 for the (39-game) hitting streak, but she didn't get to see the World Series or me winding down my career. That's something that I find myself thinking about, probably more than other things." 
Like Molitor, St. Paul native Dave Winfield returned home to play for the Twins late in his career and collected hit No. 3,000 at the Metrodome on Sept. 16, 1993. 
If Molitor doesn't get there on the current homestand, which ends Sunday, there is a good chance he could do it Monday in Kansas City, exactly three years to the day after Winfield. 
Molitor, who thought briefly about retiring amid a horren­dous slump last season, is closely linked to another mem­ber of the 3,000-hit club: Yount. 
The two were longtime team­mates with the Brewers. Molitor played his first major league game -at shortstop to open the 1978 season, only his second year out of the University of Minnesota ­when Yount was hurt late in spriQg training. Molitor also was in the on-deck circle at Milwaukee's County Stadium when Yount reached 3,000 in 1992. 
"The hard part was, after that few minutes of hoisting Robin up and everything, I went back to the on-deck circle and they started playing a video. And I'm not real good with videos," Molitor said. 
"So I'm sitting in thfl on-deck circle watching this thing and it's going through Hobin's career and I'm getting a little misty. Then all of a sudden it's over and I'm going up to the plate trying to hit. I had no chance." 
That's probably about the only time that has happened. 
If he had stayed healthy throughout his career, Molitor might be pushing Hank Aaron (3,771 hits) for third place on the career list. But he doesn't look back with regrets. 
"There's just too many good things to think about what might have been," he said. "To be sitting here and still be playing with some pretty good F things going on, you wouldn't generate a lot of sympathy that way." 
Age, injuries not an obstacle for veteran player 
By RON LESKO 
Associated Press Writer 
MINNEAPOLIS 

Paul Molitor doesn't remem­hnr wlwn he first started to think 3,000 hits might be pos­sible. lin dons rmnnmber the day hn n~ad that his odds of gntting thern were 1,000-to-1. 
"So I quirk railed Vegas." he joknd. llis 1wrsevnrance is about to pay ofT. 
0 verrorn in g injuries that forrnd him to miss 51)2 games during his liJ seasons, Molitor has moved closp, to a mark readwd by just 20 other play­nrs. 
Molitor had 2,993 hits through Wednesday, putting him in position to reach the milestone only a few miles from his hometown of St. Paul. The Minnesota Twins play at home this weekend against Seattle. 
At age 40. the Twins desig­nated hitter is on the verge of playing all 162 games for the f'irst time in his career. That feat, considering how much he'd been hurt in the past, once seemed as unlikely as 3,000 hits. 
"It must have been about five years ago I was reading some publication, and it had listed in there the odds of the current players to get to 3,000," Molitor said. "Hobin (Yount) was like 4-to-1 and (George) Brett was like 8-to-1. I think I was like 1,000-to-1 ­just because of injuries and I 
Don't miss AUDIO ADRENALINE at ELCO Friday, Oct. 11 In Elkhart On Sale Now-219-293-4469 


I LA ESPERANZA 
~TUOENT PA~~E~ A BLEAT 




fHBM COI/RSB 
tilt fill PRO SHOPHOURS 
N. Ironwood -Next
-fi'ILI•"­

(2/,9) fh1 JlfJN-J1ll6.·30JJ/-5:00PH 
door to Nicks Patio
I'fJR 1'/lJ/1'/J/!Jif SJ1'-SUNG.·IJ{)JH-5:1JIJPH 
~­
page 26 
l 
Women's 
continued from page 32 
I 
"I won't be an impact on the team right away but hopefully by the pre-national meet in October I'll be able to be a strong contributor to the J team." I The Ohio State meet will be 
a good indicator of where the
I 
Irish will finish in conference
,I 
I 
eompetition. The Big East is stacked, as four of the top ten 
teams in the nation are in the eonference.
~ 
"Our goal is to get fifth in the conference," said Connely. "We have fifteen girls that can realistically be in the top seven as well as contribute to the team." 
Of the 15 vying for varsity positions 12 of them will eom­pete at Ohio state. The team consists of four seniors: Long, Heidi Reichenbach, Emily Dodds, and Michelle Lavigne. Four juniors and a sophomore also eontribute to the team, as juniors Amanda Enscoe, Janel Kiley, Mieke Walsh, and Gretchen Weiher lead the way for the lone sophomore, Kelly Peterson. 
Connely has high aspirations for this squad as he predicts a fifth place finish in conference. 
"Our goal is to win ev.ery meet this year," said Connely. "The meets get progressively tougher as the season moves on and hopefully so will the team." 
With two freshman leading the Irish the team looks to inexperience for leadership. 
"I think it's great that Nicole and Joan can come in and make an instant impact," said Long. 
If everything goes as predict­ed, Connely should direct his women to qualify for their sec­ond NCAA nationals appear­ance in live years. 
"The team has a lot of talent and as long as the team keeps running with each other and for each other there is no telling what type of success this team can have." 

Men's 
continued from page 32 
three seniors and one junior leading the team. 
"We have a good club this season," said Joe Piane, coach of 22 years. "We were eighth at last year's NCAAs and we are returning seven runners." 
Co-captains Matt Althoff and Joe Dunlop are two of the team's strongest finishers. Althoff finished in second place in the National Catholic Invitationa! last year, his career-best finish, and Dunlop had a similar second place fin­ish at the Buckeye Invitational, where the Irish compete on Friday. 
The final runner to finish out the senior trifecta is Derek Seiling. Seiling was Piane's number one finisher after his year abroad. Seiling responded by becoming the first Irish ath­lete to receive all-Big East hon­ors for his fifth place finish at the Big East championships, last season. 
The underclassmen are also strong. Junior Jason Rexing 
The Observer • SPORTS Friday, September 13, 1996 
received All-American acco­lades in the 10,000 meters last season and improved a lot between his freshman and sophomore seasons. Hexing's continued improvement could vault the Irish into the Big East championship. 
The Irish have high hopes for two other runners: senior Jeff Hojnacki and sophomore Antonio Arce. Hojnacki is mak­ing the adjustment from run­ning middle distances for the track team to the longer cross country distances. 
Arce showed flashes of bril­liance last year as a freshman. He was the second Notre Dame runner to finish as the Big East championships, and fourth to finish at the NCAA's. After last season ended, Arce competed in the World Junior Cross Country Championships in Capetown, South Africa. 
Experience may be needed to combat the wealth of talent in the Big East. 
"One of the best sports in the Big East is track and cross country," commented Joe Piane. "Four out of the 22 teams at last year's NCAA championships were from the Big East." 
Challenging Piane's runners will be the usual suspects in Big East cross country. Providence tied the Irish for eighth place at the NCAA championships last season and won the Big East champi­onship. 
Georgetown finished just ahead of the Irish last season and right behind the champion Friars. 
Villanova should also be in the thick of the race when the Big East championships begin 
in  November  in  Boston,  
Massachusetts.  
"Boston  College  and  us  

should be a lot stronger than last year," added Piane. 
This weekend the Irish are on the road for its first two meets of the cross country season. Friday the Irish travel to Ohio State to participate in the Buckeye Invitational. 
"We won it (Buckeye Invitational) last year and we hope we will do it again," said Piane. 
Saturday the Irish travel to Valparaiso to run in the Valparaiso Invitational. 
CELEBRATE A FRIEND'S BIRTHDAY WITH A SPECIAL OBSERVER AD. 

-.. ... ~ --.-~ .. -~ ,__.. -. ._ .... 


The Observer/Rob Finch 
Junior midfielder Scott Wells has the potential to help the Irish offense rack up some points against the Mountaineers of West Virginia this weekend. 
Within walking distance ofND Campus! No appointment ever needed! 

ho10e 
gaBle 
specials 
Must present coupon Expires 9-25-96 
you 
l month $29.00 
or 

20 $39.00 
plus 

tan 'til 6-1-97 for only$169.00 
·y··




coul 
Macintosh. More affordable than ever. With low student prices on Macintosh· computers, you can start doing whatever it is you want to do. And to make it even easier for you to purchase a Mac: apply for the Apple' Computer Loan. So you can take home a Mac, and you won't have to make a payment for 90 days~ How do you get started? Just visit your campus computer store today and pick up a Mac. 
your mark. 

Soccer 
continued from page 32 
but not much talent. Despite failing to pull away from the Crusaders until late in the game though, Notre Dame used its high level of defensive inten­sity to limit Valparaiso to just three shots on goal. 
That defense will be the key to remaining unbeaten in Big East play. The Mountaineers defeated the Irish by a score of 2-1 in Morgantown last year. 
"They scored a pair of great goals against us last year," re­membered Irish head coach Mike Berticelli. "They are a good team." 
West Virginia returns nine starters from last year's team, including forward Andy Leardini, midfielder Luis de Ia Mata, and defender Tim Yianne. Leardini, a junior, scored 12 goals and dished off two assists, while classmate de Ia Mata added a goal and seven assists for the Mountaineers last season. 
To accompany their defense, the Irish are searching for a source of consistent offense. The Blue and Gold attack has performed well enough thus far, averaging 2.33 goals per game. Of course, it doesn't hurt that Notre Dame has yet to allow a goal in regulation play this season. Coach Berticelli knows that the shutout season cannot last forever. 
"We're going to make mis­takes," said Berticelli, "and we're going to give up goals." 
Hopefully, sophomore goal-
page 27 
keeper Greg Velho and the Irish defense can prove the coach wrong for a while, but realisti­cally speaking the team is going to need some scorers. Prime candidates include seniors Tony Capasso and Konstantin Koloskov, sophomore Ben 
Bocklage,  and  freshman  
Andrew Aris.  
Capasso,  after  burying  a  

penalty shot against Valparaiso, moved into a tie with Aris for the team lead in goals with two. Koloskov also has a goal to go with his two assists. Bocklage scored what was probably the biggest Irish goal of the season to date, when he cashed in a 35-yard shot to go up 2-1 on St. John's in overtime. 
At this point, the Irish have gained some respect that not many people figured they would, at least not until later in the season. The key for the Notre Dame players now. according to Berticelli, is to remain focused and forget about the polls. 
"Take this poll (the latest na­tional poll which has the Irish at No. 24) and throw it away," stated Berticelli. "It doesn't mean anything right now." 
Notre Dame should not have any trouble ignoring the polls. Last year. after starting the season 3-0, with three shutouts, they were rated No. 6 in the country. After that, the Irish lost four in a row and five of their next seven. This year's team knows that they have a long road ahead of them. 
And with a Big East opponent like West Virginia coming to town, a letdown is not an option. 
The Observer/Rob Finch 

Sophomore midfielder/defenseman Matt Johnson is a cog in the machine that is the Irish defense . 
• 
USED FURNITURE Household Items -Clothing
' 

The Salvation Army Thrift Store 
506 South Main Street South Bend, IN 46601 
Store Hours 10% Monday -Saturday Student & Faculty
#288-2539 
9:00 a.m. -6:00 p.m. Discount With l.D. 
Thursday, September19 Stepan Courts 
Co-Ree 6 on 6* 
*Minimum of Two Females on the Court at all Times 
Register a Team in Advance at RecSports 
Deadline: Wednesday, September 18 at 6:00 PM 
TOURNAMENT IS LIMITED TO THE FIRST 12 TEAMS THAT ENTER 
·­
1 
I
. 
~ 
1 
I 
TAILGATE SPECIAL  Mon -Thurs  I I a.m. to I a.m.  
Fri -Sat  I I a.m. to 2a.m.  
I00 Wings -up to 4 sauces 2 Baskets Onion Rings $2 9 9 5 2 Baskets Buffalo Chips •  Sun 12p.m. to I 2a.m. 232-2BW3  

page 28 

Volleyball 
continued from page 32 
ND's schedule has not allowed the team any time to recover. much less catch their breath, as they have had a very busy itinerary. The Joyce Center has hosted seven Irish matches over a span of nine days from August 30 to September 7. 
Although the Irish have legitimate excuses with their injuries they refuse to dwell on things out of their control. 
Kit has obviously been very hard on us, but I have to give the team a lot of credit," Brown assessed. "They haven't used the injuries as excuses and we're just trying to make the best out of the cir­cumstances." 
Rouse, a senior. said, "Of course it has been difficult to get used to different players. However, this does make us come together as a team even more." 
"The injuries have definitely changed the chemistry," sophomore blocker Lindsay Treadwell expressed. "But, everyone is doing their job and accepting their new roles." 
This weekend the Irish will face a new challenge mixed with the same old challenges as their schedule refuses to let up. The Domers will leave the Joyce for the first time this weekend as they travel to Chicago for the very competi­tive and prestigious Mizuno USA Cup. The field is com­prised of No 5 Washington State, No 6 Penn State and the Clemson Tigers who return four starters from their 23-10 team from a year ago. 
All matches are played at Mother McAuley High School. Semifinals are held tonight and the championship and consolation matches will be played Saturday. 
"This tournament is always very good, usually at least three or four of the teams are ranked," stated Brown. "It is always a great event, they pack the stands. The Chicago area has a good volleyball base and a lot of kids come to watch who may have dreams of playing college volleyball." 
Tonight they will tangle with 
• SPORTS BRIEFS 
Volleyball Tournament • 
RecSports will be sponsoring a one night tournament on September 19 at Stepan Courts. For more informa­tion, contact Re.;;Sport by Wednesday, September 18. 
Field Hockey • Anyone interested in field hockey, meet at the field across from Stepan Center. Thursday. September 12 at 6 p.m. Call Chrissy Shannon at 273-2580 or Megan Kennedy at 243­9476 with questions. 


Challenge U Fitness ­
Some classes are still open. Please call RecSports for details. If you are not able to ·attend for any reason, please contact the RecSports office so that we may give the spot to someone else. <t 
Blood Pressure & Body Composition -Testing will be done on Thursday. September 12, from 11:30 • 1 
p.m.• in the Foster Room, LaFortune. If you cannot get thre, contact Jennie P}}illips at 4-5965 to set up. 
the Nittany Lions who have dominated the series over the Irish 7-1. Penn State ended three seasons for the Irish as three of those wins came in the NCAA tournament between 1992-94. So, PSU has a spe­cial place in the hearts of the home team. 
"Playing them is a big deal because they knocked us out of the tournament," Treadwell stated. "Inside I think it is a grudge match." 
Brown explains what usually makes the Lions so tough, "They make you earn your points. They keep the ball in play and let you make the mis­takes." 
Brown's squad is 0-2 against ranked opponents this season, but they have remained posi­tive and realize the season is still in its early stages. 
"We just put things in perspective," Brown said. "Winning or losing is not mea­sure we look are looking at. We need to learn from our past matches and go from there." 
Rouse echoed Brown's com­ments, "It is important for us to play well. We need to just worry about ourselves and continue to improve as a team." 
So, what does the team need to do differently in order to overcome a highly-ranked team? 
Brown looks to the offense to answer this question. 
"In the Stanford and Louisville matches our offense was not real good. We can do much better. We relied on our blocking and defense too much. We have been working on our transition offense." 
"We need to stay together and have better communica­tion, especially with all the changes in the lineup," expressed Rousse. 
"The losses do make a differ­ence because we know that we have to step it up a level and keep improving our play," Treadwell said. 
The Notre Dame volleyball team, despite all their injuries and obstacles, knows exactly what it needs to do to over­come it's next challenge, Penn State. The only thing that remains to be seen is if the Irish can do it. 

Always your favorite game on 20 TVs! Up to 6 NFL and college games! 
Hours: 

Friday, September 13, 1996 
The Observer/Rob Finch Junior outside hitter Jaimie Lee, freshman middle blocker Mary Letters, and senior middle blocker Jen Briggs all must help the 8th-ranked Irish overcome injuries this weekend. 
0 


0
0 

0 0 0
0'\ 9T l~­
X XXX xx 
X 
X X 
Make Damon's Part of Your Game Plan 
Score big this fall at Damon's. Catch all the action on our large screen TVs and enjoy great food, fun and entertainment at a Damon's Clubhouse near you! 
Join Damon's & Woody from WAOR for a Tailgate Party Saturday, September 14th 11 :30 a.m. Damon's Clubhouse 52885 US 31/33 North 272-5478 


WEEKDAY SPECIALS 
Monday: NFL 7 p.m. to I a.m. 25¢ wings! Tuesday: All Day 20¢ wings! Wednesday: All Day 50¢ legs! Thursday: 8 p.m. to I a.m. 12 wings and 
regular buffalo chips $3.50 Friday: 8 p.m. to I a.m. Burger and Buffalo Chips $2.50 

Friday, September I 3, I 996 The Observer • SPORTS page 29 
---------------------------------------~~~~=-~~~~~----------------------------------------~~~­
• WoMEN's SoccER 
VanLaecke leads second-half rally against Spartans 
By KATHLEEN LOPEZ went in at halftime tied with quickly took a direct kick and Sports Writer the Spartans, 1-1. Michigan sailed it twenty yards into the State came out quick in the sec­back of the net. This gave the 
Last night the women's soc­ond half, and scored two unan­Irish the lead, 4-3. VanLaecke cer tllam encountered their first swered goals. sealed the victory with three test of the year. After easily 'Things were not working out minutes left in the game. The handling the No. 13 Wisconsin for us," said sophomore Monica Irish rallied to defeat the Badgers and the No.14 Gerardo. "We just were not Spartans, 5-3. Washington Huskies, the Irish playing our game." Gerardo had this to say about headod north yesterday to take Senior Amy VanLaecke VanLaecke's two goal effort, on the unranked Miehigan State answered back ten minutes "She did really well, and put Spartans. Despite being down later when she drilled sopho­away all her chances." by two in the second half, the more Holly Manthei's pass into In the first half, Michigan Irish rallied to victory, 5-3. the back of the net. Twenty State's Becky Ketola split two 
"Nothing was going right for minutes later, freshman Jenn defenders and shot the ball past us," said junior Kate Sobrero. Grubb sent a direct kick sailing senior goalkeeper Jen Renola. "Being tied at the half put a lot into the goal box. Then sopho­Grubb quickly answered that of urgency into our play so that more Shannon Boxx headed the goal with one of her own. She we eould get the results that we ball into the net to tie the game launched a free kick into the wanted." at the 75-minute mark. left corner of the net, from 
The second-ranked squad Then senior Cindy Daws about 25 yards out. 
24th Annual SuJDJDer PrograJDs 
ND-SMC Students 
Meeting October 7th Carroll Hall, SMC 7:00p.m. 
London Ro1ne 
May 21-/une 20 Tune 15-/uly 14 
Travel in Ireland, Scotland, France, Germany, and Switzerland 
Courses Offered in Business & Economics, Education, English, History, Italian, Justice, Music 
PIZZA! 
Past Students and Faculty will be present. For information call Prof. Black at 284-4460 or 2 72-3 726 
Only Our Name is Hard to Swallo__w~ 
Our name may be hard to under­
stand, but not our food. Because 
we serve only the freshest ingredi­
ents. From sandwiches and pizzas 
made with our famous Baked Fresh 
Daily"' bread. To crisp garden sal­
ads and hearty soups. Take our 
food seriously. Not our name. 
(SchlotzskX) Deli) 
Funny Name. Serious Sandwich TM 
We do Catering Trays LOCATIONS or Sack Lunches Opening Sept. 19 Great for any 
402 Dixieway N. 54570 Ironwood Rd. occasion including Roseland {Ironwood & SR 23) Tailgaters 
Ph: 272-7480 Ph: 243-9272 
(24 hour notice please) 
Fax: 272,7490 Fax: 243-9274 
---, r---------------------­
Q__ li (Schlotzsk%) Deli)
Sch_J_otzs---::-kX)-R----=D-e-=-=--li) 
I 

50¢ OFF Any Small $1.00 OFF Any 8" or 12" Crus sandwich or Pizza or Any Sourdough 75¢ OFF Any Regular Sandwich, Bag of Chips, and Sandwich Beverage Combination 
(Not valid with any other coupon, discount or daily special. (Not valid with any other coupon, discount or daily special. Hurry! Offer expires 10-12-96) Hurry! Offer expires 10-12-96) 
------------------------------------~ ~-----------------------------------­
"It wasn't so much that they fered a loss to Michigan State, surprised us," responded 3-0. Sobrero about MSU's play. "It The Irish are back at home was that we could not get any­this weekend, as they take on thing to go our way." the unranked Indiana Hoosiers 
This victory secured the at lp.m. at Alumni Field. squad's winning streak at six­"Indiana is a strong and phys­teen, and they have also won ical team," said Sobrero. "We nine road games in a row. The are going to have to come out Irish have not loss to a Big Ten quick in order to the result we 

The Observer/Mike Ruma Sophomore Shannon Boxx, hobbled from an injury sustained last weekend, scored on a header to tie last night's game at 3. 
<




Serving all your
invest10ent needs. 
• 
Stocks & Bonds • Mutual Funds 

• 
Retirement Plans • CDs • IRAs 


• U.S. Treasury Securities 
THOMAS J. DERWENT FINANCIAL ADVISOR 
431 EAST COLFAX AVENUE, SUITE 100 SOUTH BEND, IN 46617 219 236-4700 OR 800 348-2323 
Prudential Secur1t1es~ 
THE MULTI-LEVEL NITE CLUB OFFERING THE BEST IN OFF-CAMPUS FUN AND ENTERTAINMENT WHERE IF YOU DONT LIKE WHATS ON ONE LEVEL, YOU CAN GO PARTY ON THE NEXT LEVEL! 
presents 

A SPECIAL COLLEGE FRIDAY 
THE 13TH NIGHT 

PLUS DJ'S PETE "M", TONY· TONE AND SLICE PLAYING YOUR FAVORITE HIP-HOP BETWEEN BAND BREAKS ON THE LOWER LEVEL, AND CONTINUOUSLY ON THE UPSTAIRS LEVEL. 
Doors open at 8pm both floors open 'till close! 
21 and over with proper ID lower level 18 and over with college ID upper level Non-Alcoholic food and beverage upstairs level Jazzman's provides uniformed security guards inside and outside of the club 


) . 
-~---~-----~ 
page 30 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT Friday, September 13, 1996 
_,. 


0MPUS 



MINISTRY 


Dear Alumni & Friends, 
The staff of Campus Ministry extends an invitation to come together and celebrate the Eucharist this weekend. 
Purdue University Football Weekend September 14 and 15, 1996 
Saturday Vigil Masses 
Basilica 30 minutes after game 


Stepan Center 45 minutes after game 

Sunday Masses 
Basilica 8:00, 10:00 & 11:45 a.m. 
Sacred Heart 
6:00, 7:00, 8:00, Parish Crypt 9:30 & 11 :00 a.m. 
, \·,I\\ 




Chemistry 
Nobelist-~ 
Prigogine 13 Rent 14 Some 
intersections 21 Popular stove 
maker 23 Curse 24 Horace title 
.-=-r.c+:-1 26 New Jersey's -Bay 

28 Dinner entreaty 29 Simile phrase 30 Berlin article 
32 Beat, with "into" 
34 Sorority letters 35 Snake with the scientific name 
Naja haje 36 Bitsy, to Burns 37 Wall Street 
report 39 "Devil's teeth" 42 Victorian Sardou 
play written for Sarah Bernhardt 
44 Scratch 
47 Remove responsibility from 

: ''~NO WE'LL ACCELERATE .: OUR PROGRAM OF 
~ 
u 
PAYING Tl-1£. GOOD 
:0 
~ E.f'\PLOYEE5 TO ~ LE.A.VE.. '' ~ 


48 Stagnant 56 "Carnival!" 
character 57 Darrow client, 49 Follow. with "to" 
51 Colossus 
1924 
52 French river 

58 Eden exile 
rising in the Alps 

61 Zip 5;, Comparatively &2Williamof antique Baskerville's 55 Shirt brand creator 
Answers to any three clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420-5656 (75¢ per minute). 
Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: (800) 762-1665. 
page 31 YOUR HOROSCOPE JEANE DIXON 
HAPJ>Y BIRTHDAY! IN TilE NEXT YEAR OF YOUR LIFE: Changes in personnel will lead to swifter career advancement. Listen respectfully to a loved one's opm­ions. In December. a youngster encourages you to spend more time. Look 10 your own childhood for answers to questions post•d by your offspring. A scholarship or granl becomes available for a college­bound 1ecn. A shared sp1ri1ual cKpe­ricnce brings you and male much closer together. Nurlure your rela­tionship on a daily basis. 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: actress Jacqueline Bis­set. singer Mel Tonne. actress Nell CU1er. TV producer Fred Silverman. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19J: Innovative ideas are your trademark. Go the limit for a project you have faith in. Your leadcrslup qualities are immediately apparent. Keep your business and financial plans finnly rooted in reality. 
TAURUS (April 20·May 201: Do not make excuses for yourself. Get counseling if needed. Your job perfonnance is being evaluated. Be ready to lend a helping hand no mat­ter who asks. 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Too much socializing can interfere with work progress. Heed your pallner·~ instincts about new people and situ­ations. Study the facts and f1gures carefully before submitting a repo11. 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): A 
good day to ask for a favor or pay 
raise. Put any specialized knowledge 
to good use. People at a distance 
prove lucky for business. Be more 
subtle when wielding your authority 
at home. 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Avoid 
Jetting your emotions overrule your 
comnmn sense. Careful attention to 
detail will save you money or em­
• OF INTEREST 

Freshman Registers will he distributed at LaFortune Jnfo Desk beginning Wednesday. September 18 from 9 a.m. • 9 p.m. 
Classical recital: Christina Rutledge, assistant pro· fessor of Music will perform a viola recital with pianist Thomas Sauer at 2 p.m. on Sunday, September 15th at the Annenberg Auditorium in the Snite. Works by Shostakovich, Brahms and Hovhaness will be per­formed. The concert is free and open to the public. 
Alcoholics Anonymous will hold a closed meet­ing in room 124 of the Center for Social Concerns at 
9:30 a.m. on Saturday morning. 
Adopt-a-Nun will hold their first meeting on Sunday at noon at the Church of Loretto. CaU Kim a.t 284·5107 or Cassie at 284·5126 with any questions. 
•MENU  
Notte Dame  
North Chicken Noodle Soup Pork Loin with Apples Grilled Tuna with Lemon Stir-Fry Szechuan  South Texas Chili Chicken Nuggets Szechuan Stir-Fry Breaded Cheese Sticks  
Saint Mary's  
Beef Pot Pie Vegetarian Cheese Lasagna Chicken Enchiladas Hash Browned Potatoes  

Wanted: Reporters, photographers and editors. Join The Observer staff. 
barrassrn~nt. Domc,tir all;urs pro cced in a nmstrucuve fash1on. 
VIRGO (Aug. 2:1-Sept. 22) To dress for succes~. buy high-quality clothes when they go on sale. An artistic hobby is a greal lension reliever. Volunteer work brings a retiree new recogmtion 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): A hard-to-reach goal appears more attainable now. New act1vit1e' demand your full attention. Exerctsc self-discipline. Conf1rm appoint­ments before stat1mg out. 
SCORPIO (Orl 23-Nov. 21J. Business mcettngs pul you in touch with valuable new allies. Seek intro­ductions. A friend needs a sympa­thetic listener. Take your t1me when dealing wuh a complicated employ­ment situation. 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec 
21 J: A bus1ne" assoctate offers to 
become your mentor. Teaming up 
with this person could put you on the 
fast track. A chance meeting may 
lead you to question your previou' 
assumptions. Admil pasl mistakes. 
CAPRICORN <Dec. 22-Jan. I9J 
Career chotces can he tricky. Handle 
a difficult individual wnh contidence 
and tact. A special talenl sets you 
apart from your co-workers. Sa) 
"yes" to an unexpc~:tcd invilation 
Two heads are better Ihan one. 
AQliARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18) 
A family memher wants to make 
amends for a slighl. He willing to 
listen. Friends offer helpful advice 
A romantic evening could tum out 
even better than you expect. Open 
up; share your longings. 
PISCES (Feh. 19-March 20): A 
teen-ager may need more guidance 
Neighbors seek your aid with a 
church or community proJeCt. Eval 
uate a sav1ngs strategy; it may nol 
go far enough. A co-worker could 
treal you tn a special meal. 

-
-
THE COMPANY ANNOONCED TH~T WE WILL "A.BA.~DON OUR 5TR~TEGY OF M A K.I NG GOOD 
PRODUCTS ... '' 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 
1 Equivalent 11 B1g East powerhouse 15 Class1c 1954 
thnller 16 Balm ingredient 11 80 or 90. e.g. 18 B1blical city of 
K1ng Hiram 19 Villainous sort 20 Certain den1ms 22 Preserve 23 Hip hugger? 25 Fume 21 Nonet 31 "Double" or 
"tnple" maneuver 
33 Enzyme 1nvolved 1n the hydrolysiS of genetic material 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
34 Atom1c clock d8VIC8 38 P1t1ful 40 Southern constellation 41 Pony Express bundle 43 "La Boheme" soprano 
45 One side in the Peloponnesian War 
46 Part of the stomach 50 More dapper 53 W1th1n Prefix 
55 Property next to the B.&O. Railroad 
58 Title character in a Menotti opera 59 Israel 60 Worked the docks 

FROr-\ NOW ON WE'LL 
"PURSUE A DESPERATE STRATEGY OF MERGERS, BUSINESS SPIN·OFFS1 FRUITLE55 P/>..RTNE.RSHIP5 AND R./>..NDOM REORGANI­
lATIONS." 
63 D~s1gner Cassin1 64 Not the real thing &5 Claim && Wind instrument 
DOWN 
1 Prunes 2 Epic hero 3 Christmas. in 

Rome 4 Rouge roulette 
bet 5 Askew 6 Prefix with giving 1 London's home: 
Abbr. 8 60's Interior Secretary 9 Student's scribbling 

10 Certain speaker 
11 Fatherly 
12 Russian-born 


Make checks payable to: The Observer 
The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. BoxQ Notre Dame, IN 46556 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer 0 Enclosed is $70 for one academic year is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 0 Enclosed is $40 for one semester
Community. Name ____________________________________________ 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have Address _______________________________________found The Observer an indispensible link to the 
City---------------State ____Zip.____________
two campuses. Please complete the accompany­ing form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
, 


SPORTS Weekend 
page 32 
• MEN's SOCCER 


The Observer/Rob Finch 

Tony Capasso and the 24th-ranked Irish must continue to play stingy defense if they want to rise to the top of the Big East. 
Defense picks up the slack 
: By BRIAN REINTHALER West Virginia at Alumni · Spons W rirer Field. The No. 24-ranked Irish 
Tonight, the undefeated are coming off of a lacklus­. men's soccer team will try ter win over a Valparaiso · to improve their conference squad with plenty of spunk, 
record to 2-0-1 as they play host to the Mountaineers of see SOCCER/ page 27 
-
• WOMEN'S VOLLEYBAll 

Injuries .. Hah! 
Variety of challenges can 't faze No. 8 Irish 
ByJOECAVATO 
Spons W rirer 

The Notre Dame women's volleyball team has already faced a fair share of challenges in this still young season. The eighth-ranked Irish have bat­tled through two tournaments, winning one, and have suffered two heartbreaking losses to top­twenty competition, No. 2 Stanford and No. 19 Louisville. They currently stand at 5-2 which is quite an accomplishment considering their numer­ous injuries thus far. 
Junior setter Carey May has been sidelined with a dislocated shoulder for a couple of weeks before the first match. Then senior outside hitter Kristina Irvin sprained her ankle in the first match, and is playing through it as she is not quite at 100% yet. In addition, outside hitter Angie Harris is still not at her peak as she recovers from off-season knee surgery. 
The hits just kept on coming for Debbie Brown's squad as fill-in setter Jaimie Lee broke her nose before the Stanford match a week and a half ago. Lee collided with middle blocker Jennifer Rouse, and will be forced to wear a mask for about a month. 
Lee played with the fractured nose in all four matches before she finally had surgery this past Monday. She has missed most of practice this week but practiced yesterday in preparation for the weekend. Freshman Lauren Stettin has practiced at setter in Lee's absence. The Observer/Rob Finch 
Angie Harris (left) and her Irish teammates must overcome various injuries this weekend . 
• WOMEN'S CROSS COUNTRY 
Women aim for NCAA appearance 
as they finished a disappoint­
Ohio State meet 
ing seventh in their debut campaign in the Big East con­
could set tone 
ference. Although losing their 
top three athletes, the Irishfor rest ofseason should have immediate impact By MARIO ARCE performances from their SportS Wrirer freshman recruits Nicole 
Laselle and Joanna Deeter. 
The 1996 women's cross Lasalle was a second-team country team looks to make high school All-American, and their second appearance at Deeter is the Minnesota state the NCAA championships in record holder in the two mile. November if all goes as pre­"We've always had good 
dicted by ninth-year coach teams, but never great indi­Tim Connely. viduals," said Connely. "The 
"A top three finish at the two freshmen should run out district meet in Illinois would in front and if our three, four, take us to nationals in and five runners stay together Arizona," said Connely. "It's a it could be interesting to see goal well within our reach." how the season unfolds." 
The Irish women will com­Senior Carolyn Long pete in their first competition assumes captain duties for the Friday in a six-team meet at squad as she leads the young Ohio state. The date should Irish with her running maturi­
not bring forth any bad luck ty and experience being the though as a year ago the Irish only runner who has compet­placed all five of their scoring ed in NCAA competition. Long runners in the top 15. suffered a stress fracture 
"I really don't know what to early in the 1995 outdoor sea­expect from this first meet," son that sidelined her until Connely said. "Our goal is to mid-July. win, and I would be real "I didn't have as good of a disappointed if we didn't score summer training season as I somewhere around 20 points." would have liked," said Long.
The Irish lost three of its top seven runners to graduation 
see WOMEN'S! page 26 

tonight 

• Women's soccer defeats MSU see page 29 
vs. West Virginia at Valparaiso 

(e'1­tonight, 7:30p.m. 
Saturday 

• Molitor aims for 3,000 hits see page 25 
at Penn State 

Volleyball at ONU tonight, 8:30 p.m. today, 3:15p.m. 









