
Wednesday, September 4, 1996• Vol. XXX No. 8 
TI-lE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND~AINT MARY'S 
Hussein vows response to U.S. attack 
ByWAIEL FALEH The attack set off air raid 
Saddam's weekend assault on southern no-fly zone would be Associated Press Writer sirens in Baghdad and prompt­Kurdish rebels in lrbil, the moved up from the 32nd to the ed Saddam to announce he main city in the Kurdish save 33rd parallel -a line that BAGHDAD, Iraq would no longer honor the two haven in northern Iraq. reaches the southern suburbs A defiant Saddam Hussein no-fly zones that bar his war­Associated Press correspon­of Baghdad and places roughly 
vowtld Tuesday to respond to planes from the skies of north­dent Yalman Onaran reported half of Iraq inside the zones. 
U.S. missile strikes, ordering ern and southern Iraq. from Irbil Tuesday that the city Saddam claimed Iraqi forces his troops to shoot down for­"From now on, pay no atten­was calm, but the boom of shot down most of the incoming nign aircraft and ignore the no­tion to damned imaginary no­heavy artillery could be heard missiles, a claim disputed by fly zones designed to keep his fly zones," Saddam told his to the south. American officials. In military in cheek. armed forces. "Depend only on Trucks loaded with lighters of Washington, Gen. Joseph 
Kurds in the north celebrated God, and hit hard and profes­the Iraqi-allied Kurdistan Ralston said there was "no evi­thtl attack launched by sionally at any flying target that Democratic Party headed out of dence" of successful Iraqi Prnsident Clinton, but said belongs to the allied aggressors the city in long convoys, some counterattacks. Saddam's forcHs were still that penetrates the airspace of heading toward the city of Oil prices continued climbing
AP/Wm. J. Castello 
pressing their offensive against your beloved and glorious Sulaymaniyah, 100 miles to the Tuesday in response to the
Persian Gulf War, Saddam has
Kurdish rnbllls. homeland." southeast. attack.
often responded to punishing
Two Anwrican warships and "Fight, resist these aggres­"We will attack Iraq's deputy prime minister
action by the West with dra­
a pair of B-52 bombers fired 27 sors and teach them a new, Sulaymaniyah tonight, God will­insisted the American attack
matic threats of retaliation that
eruise missilns at military tar­unforgettable Jesson about val­ing," said one KDP lighter, who was unjustified, saying
were rarely carried out.
gets in southern Iraq, killing ues that their empty souls .refused to give his name. Saddam's forces had with-
Clinton launched the strike
live p11ople, aecording to Iraqi lack." In addition to the strikes,
Tuesday in response to
and U.S. officials. During and since the 1990-91 Clinton also declared that the see IRAQ/ page 6 
UCC offers support, guidance 
Support Groups being offered in the fall1996 
Growing Up in Chaos Graduate Student For individuals who grew Therapy Group up in homes where chronic For graduate students who illness, abuse, poverty, would like to explore how addiction, or unusual family long-standing patterns circumstances have had a affect their lives and want negative impact. to move ahead with self­
. I understanding and
Eatmg ssues confidence 
For individuals who admit · they have aproblem with Personal Growth Grouptheir relationship to food. For individuals who want to 
improve their relationshipsIs My Relationship with family and friends. a Healthy One? For individuals who are Gri~f ~~pport Groupconfused about their For J_ndJvJ~uals who are current relationship or their deai_Jng w1th the dea~h of a partners' behavior. family member or fnend. 
VISA offers 
students first 
look at SMC 
By lAURA SMITH 
A.sistalll Saint Mary's Editor 
!low did you get your lirst impres­sion ol' Saint Mary's College? For many studnnts it was through a Suint Mary's student visiting their hi~h sehool, a student who gave them their first tour of the eampus, or nven a student who hosted them 
ow~rnight. 
Tlw dndicatml women who intro­duet~ prosper.tive Saint Mary's stu­dlmts to tlw College are membnrs of mw of the largnst clubs on eampus, VISA (Volunteers In Support of Admissions). 
"I fnel like VISA is a great way to giVIl baek to Saint Mary's," said S1mior Bronwyn MeAuliffe. "I can share pllrsonal experiences with prosplletivfl students. It's a good organization. You get to have iun and n111et pnople from all over the 
By JILLIAN M. PAGLIOCCA 
News Writer 
Contrary to popular belief, everyone at Notre Dame is not the product of a perfect family, certain about career goals and involved in a story book romance. Just like on any other campus (or perhaps more so on this campus than on most others) students at Notre Dame have a lot to deal with. 
Tucked away on the third floor of the University Health Services Building, the University Counseling Center (UCC) is a resource that most students are aware of, but that few actually take advantage of. Currently, 10 percent of the Notre Dame student popula­tion participates in counseling sessions offered by UCC. 
"This is a campus where there's a lot of pressure to be the same," explains Assistant Director and Coordinator of Clinical Services Rita Donley, PhD. "This tends to lead to isola­tion." The Counseling Center (originally called the Psychological Services Center and renamed to sound less clinical) was instituted to help students work through what the UCC brochure identities as "these times of adjust-


Friends remember Streitz's concern 
By DEREK BETCHER Assistant News Editor 
Doug Streitz, 24, died this summer in a small plane crash just weeks after finishing his second year of Jaw studies at Notre Dame. 
A double domer, Streitz received his undergradu­ate degree from Notre Dame in 1994. He majored in history and economics in the College of Arts and Letters, and resided in Morrissey Hall. As a law student, he resided in Fischer-O'Hara­Grace. 
Friends, professors, and class­mates echo each other in pointing out the love Streitz had for Notre 
Streltz Dame. His six years spent at the University barely signal the start of his love for the community. Those who knew Doug mourn losing the energy and exuberance that his life had charac­terized. 
"He was just vivacious, he was always on," friend and classmate Katie Elias recalled. "Doug kept us laughing and realizing that there was a world out­side of law school." 
An infectiously carefree disposition endeared Doug to his freinds, who remember him both for his ready sense of humor and for his straightforward honesty. 
"You always knew where you stood with Doug and that kind of openness was particularly helpful in a law school environment," Jonathan Lienhard, one of Streitz's classmates, said. 
see STREITZ/ page 4 

Chaves no longer teaching at ND 
By JAMIE HEISLER Associate News Editor 
Mark Chaves, a Notre Dame sociology professor who allegedly sexually harassed a female under­graduate last year, will not be returning to his teaching position this semester, according to Denny Moore, director of public relations. 
"He is not here this semester. I·le's not teaching. He won't be here next semester, (and he) won't be teaching. The same will be true next summer or fall," Moore said. 
The undergraduate, a research assistant of Chaves, reportedly brought a complaint against him in early November, charging that he had linked her academic success to their relationship. 
According to sources close to the situation, Chaves claimed through a letter directed to the stu­dent that he did not realize the comments were 

country." The Observerffina Lemker Saint Mary's VISA members show prospective students around campus. see VISA/ page 4 see CHAVES/ page 4 

page 2 The Observer • INSIDE Wednesday, September 4, 1996 
• INSIDE COLUMN 

A glimpse into the sen1ester 
It's the day after------­Activities Night, and you are counting the multi­tude of colored papers that you accumulated in a mere half hour in the JACC. Suddenly you are on two dozen voice mail all calls. The whole semester is yet to come, but you are already overextended. More 
useless fliers come through your campus mail touting meetings that conflict and heralding a future of more letters from copy shop addicts. 
Life seems compressed by a constant whir of dining hall lunches and Papa John dinners. Football weekends are lost in the bottoms of cans and books and Observer pull-outs. You find yourself pondering Spenser and Donatello while you are watching "The Simpsons". You understand intensely why time is the fourth dimension. 
The semester has begun, and there is noth­ing that you can do about it. No matter how hard you try, you are going to learn some­thing. The wondrous fount of knowledge is going to spill into your life and mold in the corners of our memory but dry up when you need it most. 
You are going to find new and bizarre ways 
of entertaining yourself such as sleeping out 
for football tickets, discovering fun mnemonic 
devices, and spending hours on the endless 
network of links on the internet (thanks to 
resnet). 
Suddenly lectures on feminism and movies 
like "The Shawshank Redemption" spark 
interests you never knew that you had. The 
liberal arts education is going to give you an 
opportunity to explore your faith, you society, 
and your psyche. 
College is a sick, sick place. The seeds of 
this sickness were planted in you before you 
came to Notre Dame. However, here at the 
illustrious University of Notre Dame du lac or 
stunning Saint Mary's College, these ideas 
have found what they need to germinate and 
to take root. You must grow. You must learn 
to survive. 
Your classes are going to bring you to new 
points of view and to new heights of intellec­
tual esteem. You are going to find yourself 
encountering new people and new situations. 
You have joined a secret society of intellectu­
als with attitudes: the all-around workers who 
struggle to juggle classes, interhall sports. 
twelve service clubs, and a social life. Every 
moment of your life on campus is crammed 
with the college experience, even when you 
are sleeping. 
Your classes will go smoothly. Your meet­
ings will be attended. Your dorm will win that 
key interhall game. Your contributions will be 
appreciated. Your work will get finished. 
It's two o'clock in the morning. Your best 
friend is a thesaurus which provides you with 
endless synonyms of "use" and "utilize". You 
haven't typed a word in ten minutes, so large 
toasters are flying across your monitor. You 
are listening to angst rock because only 
Robert Smith understands your pain. You are 
about to bludgeon yourself with the mouse. 
An empty can of Dr. Pepper sits to one side of 
your keyboard. Welcome to writer's block. 
There's nothing you can do, and there's no 
where you can go...but the 'brare. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Margee Husemann Associate Viewpoint Edicor 
• Tmuw's STAFF  
News  Viewpoint  
Jillian Beatrice Pagliocca  Meaghan Smith  
Ethan Hayward  
Production  
Sports  John Hutchinson  
Kathleen Lopez  Holly Scott  
Tara Grieshop  
Graphics  
Tom Roland  Lab Tech  
Katie Kroener  


• WORlD AT AGLANCE 
A stronger hurricane, Fran, eyes the U.S. 

MIAMI Hurricane Fran gained strength and 
Tuesday on a path that could bring it to land later this week. 
The U.S. Navy sent ships to sea for safety as Fran's sustained winds grew from 85 mph to 105 mph in a few hours east of the Bahamas. 
Following on the heels of Hurricane Edouard, which unraveled off the Eastern Seaboard over the Labor Day holiday, Fran was expected to take a turn to the northwest by Thursday. 
"This changes every time we make a forecast," said Max Mayfield, a special­ist with the National Hurricane Center. "The big question is how far to the north it will go and when it will make the turn. Right now, the biggest threat is from North Florida to the Carolinas." 
Mayffeld said conditions were similar 
to those that affected Hurricane Bertha, which killed nine in July. Bertha came ashore in North Carolina with sustained winds of 75 mph, causing millions of dollars in damage to homes, crops and infrastructure. 
Bomb will not change Pope's route 
LA ROCHE-SUR-YON, France 
A parish priest found what experts said Tuesday was a homemade bomb in the basilica of a church that Pope John Paul II will visit this month. The bomb was discovered Monday in a crypt of the St. Laurent-sur-Sevre church in La Roche-sur-Yon in France's western Brittany region. The device was hidden near the foot of a 

tomb holding the remains of Louis-Marie Grignon de Montfort, one of two 18th-century French clerics the pope plans to honor on his Sept. 19-22 visit. Beneath the bomb was an inscription in a garbled mixture of Latin and French -"in nomine pape poum," or "in the name of the pope, boom." Experts described the bomb as a "crude pyrotechnical device" and said it had been plant­ed sometime over the weekend. Bomb disposal experts defused it, and no one was injured. Authorities said it was powerful enough to have caused "significant dam­age." The church i~ the first stop on the pope's visit, his fifth to France since 1980. 
Demand up for family physicians 
CHICAGO 
Because of the growth of managed care, the demand for general practitioners is catching up to the demand for specialists. Researchers studied recruitment advertise­ments in medical journals and found that in 1990 there were four ads for specialists -such as anesthesiologists and orthopedic surgeons -for every generalist position advertised. By 1995, the ratio dropped to 1.8 to 1. The researchers, led by Dr. Serena Seifer, a professor at the Center for Medical Education Research at the University of Washington in Seattle, attributed the shift to the spread of managed care, which controls costs by using primary care doctors as gatekeepers to specialists, who charge more. The findings were published in Wednesday's issue of The Journal of the American Medical Association. Numerous studies have warned that too many doctors are specializing and too few are going into primary care, such as family practice, internal medi­cine and pediatrics. Dr. Jerry Goldstein, president of the Council of Medical Specialty Societies, said the study would be useful to medical students. 

The AccuWeather<~~>forecast for noon, Wednesday, Sept. 4. 

FRONTS: 
"FRAN" 
....a....&..
"T"""r -..AT­
COLD WARM STATIONARY 
C 1996 AccuWeather, Inc. 
Pressure 
i) !::) u
H  L  m  &'SI  En!  0  .  ~  8  
HIGH  LOW  SHOWERS  RAIN  T-STORMS  FLURRIES  SNOW  ICE  SUNNY  PT. CLOUDY  CLOUDY  
Vis Asaoclated PfVSS  
Atlanta  85  70  Dallas  93  68  New Orleans  90  71  
Baltimore  84  67  Denver  89  58  New York  84  70  
Boston  80  64  Los Angeles  82  67  Philadelphia  81  67  
Chicago  84  62  Miami  91  76  Phoenix  99  80  
Columbus  88  70  Minneapolis  87  64  St. Louis  86  67  

At 5 p.m. EDT, Fran was about 285 
miles east of Nassau, Bahamas and mov­
ing west-northwest at 13 mph. A hurri­
cane warning was in effect for the north­
west Bahamas, which includes Nassau 
and Freeport. 
Charles King, administrator of San 
Salvador island in the Bahamas, said 
winds were near tropical storm force 
Tuesday afternoon. 
"Apart from that, things are pretty 
much the same," he said. "We feel as 
though it will be a minimal hurricane, 
but we are watching and listening to the 
reports. We are ready to take the neces­
sary precautions." 
The Navy wasn't waiting. In 
Jacksonville, Fla., 14 ships from Mayport 
Naval Station headed for the open sea. 
In North Carolina, business owners 
already suffering the effects of 
Hurricane Bertha were bemoaning more 
tropical weather. 
"It was the worst Labor Day I've ever had, and I've been in business 41 years," said Carol Dillon, owner of the Outer Banks Motel on North Carolina's Hatteras Island. 
Abusive officer regains rank 
STILLWATER, Okla. 
A police sergeant who was demoted to patrolman for slapping the boy he said he caught having sex with his teen-age daughter will get his old job back with back pay and benefits. John Jerkins will return Wednesday to the rank of sergeant in the police department's criminal investigations division, where he had worked until he was demoted in April, City Attorney Mary Ann Karns announced today. She said an arbitrator will determine whether Jerkins should be punished for striking the boy. Jerkins had lost $705 per month in pay, plus $350 per month in pension benefits since the demotion. He was assigned duties such as stuffing envelopes and reading reports. Ms. Karns said Jerkins' testimony at a hearing led the city to agree to restore his rank with back pay and benefits. "Although he was agreeable to the rein­statement, other items of concern by both parties pre­vented a full settlement from being reached," Ms. Karns said. In the request to an arbitrator, the city will seek one week's suspension without pay. Moore will ask for Jerkins to be exonerated and for all references to the dis­cipline to be removed from his personnel file. 
De Benedetti resigns as chairman 
MILAN, Italy 
Carlo De Benedetti resigned Tuesday as chairman of Olivetti and Co. Spa after big investors questioned the computer maker's strategy. Board member Antonio Tesone was named the new chairman, the company said. Tesone for many years has been one of Olivetti's top lawyers. De Benedetti, who has led the company since 1978, also gave up his seat on the board of directors, but was named an honorary chairman. A financier and one of Italy's most powerful industrialists, De Benedetti indi­rectly controls nearly 15 percent of Olivetti's stock. The company confirmed De Benedetti's resignation in announcing a nearly $300 million loss in the first six months of 1996. Before news of De Benedetti's resigna­tion got out, Olivetti shares finished Tuesday's trading down more than 5 percent on a newspaper report that a number of top managers have left the company. At one point, shares were down by 7 percent. Chief financial officer Luciano La Noce, administrative director Corrado Ariaudo and investor relations head Pierpaolo Cristofori have departed. 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction righ[s are reserved. 
Students pursue goals thanks to SISTAR funds 
By LESLIE FIELD 
NcwsWri1cr 
Saint Mary's senior Caroline Quinlan and Communication Dance and Theater Chairperson lndi Dieckgrase will be presenting an hour-long performance based on their summer experiences with per­formance improvisation on Thursday and Friday at 8 p.m. in Moreau's Little Theatre. 
Quinlan, a sociology major and dance minor, and Dieckgrase were two of four redpients of this year's SISTAR Grant which gives students an opportunity to further research in an academic area of interest wilh an allotted budget of approximately $3,000 from Saint Mary's. 
<)uinlan beeame interested in improvisation through her danee elass1~s and found that it could be further explored through several workshops of­fered nationwide. With her grant; she attended workshops in northern California and Connecticut this summer. In a workshop she attended, she studied Interplay. "Interplay is a way to take your body, mind and spirit into consideration," Quinlan explained. 
Sixteen other people attend­ed this workshop. There was a wide spectrum of ages. Quinlan being the youngest attendant. "Everyone liked the fact that I could give the youthful per­spective." Quinlan said. 
Performance improvisation draws from personal experi­ence, according to Quinlan. It incorporates the belief that no area should be unattended to if people are to be happy. 
Phil Porter, a founder of the Interplay Workshop. first start­ed his idea of modern im­provisation and dance in 1979 when he founded a workshop entitled, "Body and Soul." Interplay has become a suc­cessful extension of this idea, focusing on what Porter calls Exformation. Quinlan describes the term as, "a way of releasing all of the informa­tion we take in everyday in many .~orms, be it stories or dance. 
Quinlan is hoping for a large turnout this week. "It's fun. You can take a break and see something different. It's good for undergrads to get a look at what they can do with the SIS­TAR grant," she said. 
Parlez-vous francais? 

By BRIDGET O'CONNOR 
News Writer 
In an effort to increase traffic to the newly redesigned Alumni-Senior Club, a campus wide "Dorm Spirit Day" is being considered by the Hall Presidents Council during the week of the Notre Dame vs. Ohio State football game. Free dee jay services or use of the Alumni-Senior Club for events are being considered as prizes fQr the winning dorm. 
On Wednesday, September 25, residents of each dorm would be encouraged to wear apparel with their dorm name on it and stop by the Alumni­Senior Club at some point dur­ing the day to register their participation in the event. The dorm with the largest percent participation would win a prize to be determined by the win­ning hall and the Department of Student Activities, according to Director of Student Activities Joe Cassidy. 
The event is being proposed by the Student Activities Committee in an attempt to attract the under 21 community to the Club. 
Also discussed at the meeting were the ESPN Gamewatch (of the Notre Dame vs. Vanderbilt football game) in the LaFortune Student Center Thursday night and Fiesta Michiana this week­end at the Morris Civic Auditorium from noon to 8 p.m., honoring the Latin American Community. 
Other business this week included the induction of the following committees: unity, communication and 25th anniversary of women at Notre Dame. An announcement was made that the distribution of alcohol guides will take place in the dorms in upcoming weeks. 
• CORRECTION 
An article in Tuesday's Observer on the Partial Birth Abortion Ban Act should have said that over 70 percent of a group of registered voters who were polled by the Tarrance Group in December said they were in favor of the ban. 
Also, President Clinton's statement should have been clarified to say that he is against the ban because it may be necessary in situations whore the pregnancy poses serious adverse health effects for the mother. not just in sit­uations where the mother's life is threatened. The Observer regrets the errors. 
SENIOR PORTRAITS 
Sign Up Septelllber 11 -Septelllber 13 at the LaFortune Inforlllation Desk 
Who:  Class of 1997  
When:  Pictures taken  
Sept. 2 thru Sept. 20  

Where: Third Floor, LaFortune Why: To Be In 1997 Dome 

---------------------------------------------~ 
page 4 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, September 4, 1996 

Streitz 
continued from page 1 
"He very much loved Notre Dame, he loved this place immensely. He loved law school more than most students do, and he certainly loved his friends and classmates," Father John Pearson, one of Streitz's law professors, recalled. Pearson also repre­sented the University at Streitz's funeral Mass June 17. 
In his spare time, Streitz was an avid tennis player and had been on Notre Dame's crew team. His interests included ccollege basketball and labor law, and friends report that his family, especially his older sis­ter Kimberly, were very impor­tant to him. 
To relax, Streitz painted and did wood carvings. He also scoured newspapers relentless­ly and could in turn hold con­versations in subjects from soc­cer to political economy. His zest for conversation carried from class discussions to TV talk and encompassed most sit­uations in between. Doug's companions remember him as a person who would frequently play devil's advocate to keep talk active. 
Above all, it seems that Doug 
Chavez 
continued from page I 
upsetting her and that he was sorry for his actions. 
However, Richard Williams, chair of the sociology depart­ment, stated that Chaves was on leave from his teac)ling respon­sibilities for the spring semes­ter. 
According to a source close to the situation, Chaves offered his resignation soon after an inves­tigation was undertaken by the University. 
The source commented fur­ther that Chaves was allowed to continue his research on cam­pus one day a week for the spring semester and that he was not allowed to have any contact with his previous research assistant. 
Chaves was not available for comment. Chaves, 35, had been a member of the University fac­ulty since arriving from Loyola of Chicago in August 1992. According to Williams, he had been awarded tenure in May 1994, three years earlier than the University average of five. 
most loved simply interacting with people. 
"Doug was known for being a really outgoing personality, he was a very inclusive person," friend and classmate Christine Rice offered. "He was open both with what he had and with peoples' abilities to share. He understood confidence so well." 
While from a teaching per­spective Pearson appreciated the energy and vigor Streitz brought to his classes and stud­ies, he couldn't help but notice Streitz's role among his peers. 
"Doug was an extremely pop­ular student, which is certainly befitting. He had a great per­sonality, he was bright, and especially he was concerned with his fellow students." 
In pursuing his labor law interests, Steitz had been work­ing this summer as a law clerk at the frrm of Pepper, Hamilton and Sheetz in Philadelphia. 
On June 13, a Thursday evening, Streitz left Cross Keys Airport in a small plane with his cousin, piloted by their friend. According to observers, shortly after takeoff the trio's single engine Beachcraft tilted to one side and sputtered, The craft then slowed in the midair before plummeting nose-first to the ground. Investigators had not yet determined the cause of the crash. 
VISA 
continued from page 1 
VISA members participate in one or more of the four VISA departments. Tour guides give tours weekly to visiting students. Telecounselors call prospec­tive students to answer their questions about Saint Mary's. High scool liasons visit their own high schools over Fall or Spring Break to talk to inter­ested students about Saint Mary's. Overnight Hostesses share their rooms for 24 hours with students who visit Saint Mary's. 
"VISA is a great opportunity for students to gain leadership and communication skills and it requires as much or as little time as a student can give," said Moira Murphy, the assis­tant director of Admissions and VISA Coordinator. 
"I feel good when I see a student I gave a tour to or hosted overnight," said sopho­more Jill Moore. "I know that I made a difference in their choice to attend Saint Mary's." 
AN,fEZctuA~~~usT
B 233-s5o5 
MULTI-LEVEL -2 LARGE DANCE FLOORS
... 
WEDNESDAY'S 
LADIES NIGHT 
All ladies admitted free before midnight 
THURSDAY'S 
COLLEGE NIGHT AND THEME NIGHT 
This Thursday it's free admission all night to all customers wearing beachwear, or a toga outfit 
FRIDAY'S 
ME-N NIGHT 
All men admitted free before 11 pm; free admissiqn all night to anyone wearzng a tool pouch 
jazzman's general admission Wed-Fri is $1.00 before I I pm, $3.00 after I I pm. 21 and over with proper ID-no 10, no admittance-state law 
DOORS OPEN AT 9:00PM 
ucc 
continued from page 1 
ment." 
UCC services include sessions for individuals, couples, and groups; undergraduate and graduate students; and friends and family members of those who are coping with difficulties. Some issues addressed by the center include eating disorders, parenting skills, death, and sexual abuse. In addition to sessions by appointment, the Center also organizes Counseline, a telephone help line run by the Psychology Club. Sundry outreach work­shops and programs directed at various psychological issues are offered throughout the academic year. 
Of especial help to students are the Center's group sessions, described by Donley to be "small but mighty" in their mission to alert students of like-minded people on campus, who are dealing with similar kinds of issues. 
Donley acknowledges the difficulty some students have in making their first visit to the Center. "There's a big difference between going downstairs and getting an antibiotic and coming up here [to the Counseling Center]," she explains. "It is hard for some students to get over the stigma that somebody must be really crazy or weird to get counseling." 
The 21 members of the staff have made it a priority to "normalize" the process of seeking therapy, and hope to increase participation in the available and affordable (the charge for each session ranges from $2 to $5) but often underused services offered by the Center. 
Donley admits that it is impossible for the Center to rely on conventional word-of-mouth advertising to pub­licize UCC services. "It is rare that students promote their experience at the University Counseling Center with other students because of the stigma of seeking mental health services," Donley explains while citing that 22% of the students who participated in the group program in 1995-96 had participated the year before. 
The list of programs offered for the fall 1996 semester are: Eating Issues Therapy Group; Grief Support Group; Graduate Student Therapy Group; Growing Up in Chaos; Is My Relationship A Healthy One?; and the Personal Growth Group. Additional information is avail­able at the University Counseling Center. 
• CAMPUS 8Jti~F 
holds care 
kick-off 
......:· ·::.-:·:;::':'..·.·<~~~,::::. <>:~' 
forws.ei1iors 
·.•'"ff¥,.... 
By LORI ALQtN 
Saint Maly's New~ .E.iitor 
Altl10ugh t&~'y~~l' has just begun and 

many. M11 ~,re barely used to our 
:rt~v~t; .too· ~ar\Y to. ~:~tm-t 
· · · futurf!, ~p~cmllyJf · · ·· · · ··,:. ,y::'i~:-:· ..:.:::-:::.·<:·:':'iwt>·:. >:';::=""= :.: 
.willbe h~iding lW' .~~nU)r .... f'f!r ....·· ff today at 4:30 
p.m. blCal'roJIAuditorlum to introduce seniors t9 tl}e. Yfjij.e variety of opportu­nities tll.at at~ available to them through t)).e Pounseling and Career Development·center, the sponsors of the event. The event is intended to help senior$ learn a}>out job search ser­vic(:)s; receive a career workbook; find out how to ~jgn up for interviews at Saint Mary'!!i'•d Notre Dame and start a credential file; and get the scoop on the Alu.mnae Resource Network. 
"The Sen~or Career Kick-off gives seniors the·,opportunity to be excited about and get involved in all of the activities which are specifically geared towards seniors this year," said Senior Ashley Ratcliffe. 
The Counseling and Career Development Center is available to all students, ·rrom freshman to seniors. and provides many useful resources. ~<They were extremely helpful, espe­cially when f was going through stress· 
ftil· times at ol," said junior Lisa 
111
Gutilla. 

VOTER REGISTRATION FORMS 
now available at Student Government 
Fill out an application and drop it in the voter registration box at the Student Government office on the 2nd floor of LaFortune 
Absentee ballots for your home state are also available 
PLEASE NOTE: 
If you register as an Indiana voter, you are no longer regis­tered to vote in your home state and may be called for jury duty in Indiana. 
Clinton. Dole. Perot. Whoever. Your choice. Just vote. 
Brought to you by Student Government. 


Student suspected bomber Airplane producers 
A ... odated Press 
TAMPA, Fla. 
A theology student charged 
with trying to carry explosives, 
ammunition and weapons onto 
an airplane insists the material 
was harmless. 
llownver, a poliee onicBr said 
the arsenal still could have 
bnen used for a hijacking. 
Homan Hegman was arrested Saturday at a security check­point at Tampa International Airport. 
llis carry-on luggage con­
tairwd five homemade explosive 
devi!:es, bomb-making matnri­
als, two hand grenades, a 9mm 
All Student Organizations 
There wi II be a mandatory meeting of all student organization officers on: 
Academic: 
Wednesday, September 4, Montgomery Theater -4 pm or Thursday, September 5, Montgomery Theater -7 pm 
Athletic: 
Wednesday, September 4, Montgomery Theater-5 pm or Thursday, September 5, Montgomery Theater-8 pm 
At least one officer from every student organization must attend one of the sessions. If you have any questions, please call the Student Activities Office at 1-7308. _ 

STUDENT GOVERNMENT 
OPEN HousE__ 
In The Student Government Office 

2nd floor of LaFortune 
7--9 PM SEPTEMBER 1QTH 
Question Call 1--7668 
pistol, about 180 rounds of ammunition and six military­knives, police said. 
!legman, 21, held a roundtrip ticket to Wilkes Barre­Scranton, Pa., where he was to start his third year of study for the priesthood at St. Tikhon's Seminary in South Canaan, near Scranton. 
Hegman told WTVT-TV that he was innocent. 
"The things I had were not real ... they're used weapons. They were no good. The grenades are dead," Regman said from jail, where he was being held without bail. 
However, the police bomb 
Ethnic: 
Monday, September 9, Foster Room -7 pm or 
•Tuesday, September I 0, Foster Room-8 pm 
HQnQr & MusiQ: 
Monday, September 9, Foster Room-8 pm or Tuesday, September I 0, Foster Room -7 pm 
squad director, Sgt. Jim Diamond, said Regman still could have used his arsenal to hijack the plane or commit some other crime when he reached his destination. 
And WTVT quoted an uniden­tified airport official as saying the gun and grenades were usable. 
On Sunday, state and federal agents searched the home Regman shared with his moth­er in Brooksville, about 50 miles north of Tampa. 
"They did confiscate some items but I can't discuss that," airport police Lt. Steve Marlovits said Monday. 
SoQial Service: 
Wednesday, September II, Foster Room-7 pm or Thursday, September 12, Montgomery Theater -8 pm 
SpeQial Interest: 
Wednesday, September II, Foster Room-7 pm or Thursday, September 12, Montgomery Theater -8 pm 
launch bidding war 
By DIRK BEVERIDGE 
Associated Press Writer 
FARNBOROUGI-1, England 
With combat fighters roaring above, Airbus Industrie and Boeing Co. launched a new war of words Tuesday over which plane maker is selling the most 
. aircraft. 
Airbus, the European consor­tium, told reporters it had racked up $3 billion in new business, including a $1 billion deal to supply 11 new A300­600 freight jets to Federal Express Corp. Airbus announced its deals on the sec­ond day of Farnborough International '96, a leading air show where the world's top airplane manufacturers and smaller companies that make their components appear every two years to hawk their prod­ucts. 
They wine and dine airline executives, trying to generate new sales, and push hard to convince others in the industry that they are out front. 
Unfortunately for Airbus, its deals were $3.3 billion less than Boeing had come up with a day earlier. So in true air show style, Airbus mounted a full-scale public relations assault on Boeing's numbers. 
Airbus senior vice president John Leahy said that when he heard about 25 Boeing sales in Australia, he got on the phone to his Singapore office with the intention of firing somebody ­only to learn some of these orders had been placed years ago. 
"We look at airplane orders this year -not airplanes that were ordered five years ago and resurrected to make head­lines," Leahy told a press con­ference at the air show. 
Boeing spokesman T. Craig Martin acknowledged that some of the orders from the leasing company Ansett Worldwide had been placed years earlier, but said the cus­tomer had not wanted them made public until now. The 68 Boeing airplanes on order for $6.3 billion are "all unan­nounced orders," Martin said. 
Airbus does the same thing, Martin insisted, and at times even takes orders off its onicial books and adds them later to show big, sudden increases in business. 
USED FURNITURE Household I terns -Clothing • 
® The Salvation Army Thrift Store 506 South Main Street South Bend, IN 46601 
Store Hours 
10% Monday -Saturday 
Student & Faculty
#288-2539
9:00 a.m. -6:00 p.m. 
Discount With J.D. 
The Observer 
is now hiring for the following position: 
Illustrator 
Ifyou are interested in an exciting and exotic job, 
experience drawing for The Observer. Please contact Ed Leader at 634-4428, or stop up at The Observer. 

Source: Airbus Industria. Boeing AP 
Airbus responded that it has had far fewer cancellations this year. with Boeing leading the way. Airbus also announced firm orders for: 
• 
Three A340-300s, typically valued at about $130 million to $140 million each, for Cathay Pacific Airways of Hong Kong. 

• 
Eighteen A321s, valued at about $50 million each, to Asian a, a Korean carrier. 


Airbus has also signed a memorandum of understanding for six A320s and six A321 s, along with six options for each, to Condor Flugdienst, a charter carrier run by Germany's Lufthansa. Using its own brand of hype, Airbus combined all these deals to come up with the figure of $3 billion. The firm orders themselves are worth about $2.4 billion. 
As the two big players fire salvos at Farnborough, No. 3 McDonnell Douglas Corp. is hoping to rebound in the com­mercial aviation business, where its market share has plunged sharply. 
Airbus' Leahy showed off a chart with McDonnell Douglas heading ever lower, although company executives said they are hoping for new business this week and plan to be long­term players. 
-------------~~~--------­
Hussein again factor in U.S. campaign 
ByJOHN KING 
Associated Press Writer 
WASHINGTON 
Saddam Hussein was a big factor at the start of the last presidential campaign, all but forgotten in the end. By pro­voking a military showdown with President Clinton just nine weeks before Election Day, the Iraqi leader might have a more lasting impact this time. 
The bipartisan praise for Clinton's overnight cruise missile strikes against Iraqi military targets underscored the political opportunity for the president, who displayed a decisiveness Republicans frequently assert is missing from the administration's for­eign policy. 
"At 15 or 20 points ahead in the polls, the president doesn't need this kind of risky challenge," said Connecticut 
Democratic  Sen.  Joseph  
Lieberman.  "He's  shown  
some guts."  

But any prolonged con­frontation with Iraq carries huge political risks, the most obvious being the potential for 
U.S. casualties should Saddam not heed Clinton's warnings and additional strikes be ordered. 
And the lukewarm support voiced by Western allies gave Republicans an opening to assert that Clinton has squan­dered the international pres­tige built by Ronald Reagan and George Bush, to the point where Saddam had no reser­vations about ignoring Clinton's warnings. 
That latter point is one Republican challenger Bob Dole has repeatedly stressed in his campaign against Clinton. "Saddam Hussein is testing American leadership," he said Sunday. 
limit the power and arro­gance of Saddam Hussein," Dole said. 
When it comes to dealing with Saddam, Dole has a mixed record of his own: On Tuesday he called Saddam a butcher and a tyrant, but back in 1990, just before Iraq invaded Kuwait, Dole opposed efforts to impose economic sanctions against the Iraqi regime, even after Saddam had threatened Israel. 
"There might be a chance to bring this guy around," Dole said after an April 1990 meeting with Saddam in Baghdad. 
Clinton and Dole spoke by telephone before Dole's Tuesday speech, and aides to both men sought to depoliti­cize the latest U.S.-Iraq stand­off. White House press secre­tary Mike McCurry said Clinton had forbidden aides from discussing political implications "because that was not part of the decision­making process whatsoever." Echoed Dole spokesman Nelson Warfield: "I don't think it would be appropriate to do a political handicap." 
But the calendar alone put the episode front and center in presidential politics. 
"This close to a presidential election, a confrontation involving use of force and risk to American military person­nel is almost certain to have an impact," former Secretary of State James A. Baker III said in an interview. 
Baker knows firsthand the inclination of most voters to make foreign policy a sec­ondary presidential issue in times of peace. He helped President Bush assemble the international coalition against Saddam after the 1990 inva­sion of Kuwait, and Bush's approval ratings were so high 
Ro01ania's econo01ic gap glaring 
ByVIOREL URMA 
Associated Press Writer 
BUCHAREST, Romania 
Behind a wire fence and gates protected by electronic devices and German shepherds, some of Romania's nouveaux riches lead sheltered lives in 20 luxurious tile-roofed villas and bun­galows. 
Uniformed guards speak into walkie-talkies and suspiciously eye non-residents who drive by the complex, which includes a park and a private club. 
Few know exactly who lives at the World Trade Village, an island of mocking opulence that has sprouted in the middle of a wasteland on Bucharest's northern edge. Neighbors deri­sively call it "Beverly," for Beverly Hills, Calif. 
"Let me tell you, sir, that only the second­and third-tier of gold bugs live here," says Mihai Lazar, an electrician. "You won't find big sharks. The richer live even better." 
Seven years after the collapse of communism, Romania is a showcase of stark contrasts. 
For the few who have gotten wealthy, life is a beautiful dream. For the great majority, it's a daily struggle. 
The average monthly salary is 330,000 lei Gust over $100) -enough to buy one pair of imported leather shoes, or 37 pounds of top­quality frankfurters. 
Not long ago, Romanian tourist agents were advertising nine-day package tours to the Olympics Games in Atlanta for $2,950. It is an unimaginable sum for most Romanians. 
"This is what I could afford to buy today: a kilogram (two pounds) of tomatoes, four hen eggs, a piece of cheese and a loaf of bread. Total cost: 4,500 lei ($1.40)," says Lazar, 42, who moonlights as a taxi driver to augment his meager electrician's salary. 
Labor protests, galloping inflation and a slow­ly implemented program to convert state busi­nesses to private ownership have marked the country's jolting transition to a market econo­my. 
About half the country's 23 million people live around the poverty level. 
In Bucharest, a metropolis of 2.2 million, there's ample evidence Romania is embracing the market mentality. Shops and streets over­flow with goods. 
There are elegant restaurants and casinos like the Casa Vernescu. Food is again plentiful, though few can buy what they like. The new elite's flashy cars are everywhere. 
Yet a short ride from the city center, paved roads give way to bumpy cobblestone streets lined with decrepit houses. Homeless children beg for spare change. 
Newspapers sometimes carry ads from people offering their kidneys for cash. Here and there, a symbol of the new times, palatial villas have sprung up. A three-story splendor outfitted with a rooftop satellite dish and an exterior marble staircase catches the eye of the traveler. 
"It belongs to a man who runs a car repair business," says a neighbor. "But he didn't steal (to get rich). He's smart and he fixes only Mercedes, BMWs and Volvos." 
Widespread corruption, abuse of power and get-rich-quick schemes are the hot topics of conversation in newspapers and among Romanians. 
Iraq 
continued from page 1 
drawn from Irbil "several hours" before the missile strikes. He also derided U.S. claims that Saddam had violat­ed U.N. resolution 688, which prohibits the Iraqi leader from oppressing his people. 
"We did not violate U.N. reso­lutions," Deputy Prime Minister Tariq Aziz said on CNN. "I challenge the American admin­istration (to say) upon what basis of international law ... this aggression was being justi­fied." 
But U.S. and rebel officials said Iraqi forces had not with­drawn from lrbil before the attack and fighting continued south and east toward Sulaymaniyah. Iraq's ruling Revolution Command Council urged the other permanent members of the U.N. Security Council to rein in the United States -and seemed to threat­en them if they did not. 
Iraq "has adopted several necessary decisions and mea­sures to confront the situation in the light of the cowardly American aggression," the Iraqi council said in a state­ment carried by the state-run Iraqi News Agency. 
The United States and Britain were having trouble gathering support in the Security Council for a resolution condemning Iraq; France and Russia, two other permanent council mem­bers, opposed the measure. The council did approve a rou­tine renewal of the sanctions against Iraq, as expected. 
Russia condemned the bomb­ing, which it said could send events in the region spiraling "out of control." China urged both sides to show restraint, while Britain said the United States was right to attack after Saddam's army moved north into Kurdish rebel areas with 45,000 soldiers and 300 tanks. 
On Monday, he went on to say Clinton had demonstrated "weak leadership" in dealing with Iraq. But after the overnight missile strikes. Dole awoke Tuesday facing a deli­cate political dilemma: 
How to support the U.S. position in an international crisis while raising questions about Clinton's leadership. "In matters like this, all of us think not as Republicans or Democrats, but as Americans," Dole said in a speech to the American Legion. 
Nonetheless, even as he said he supported U.S. forces "without hesitation or reser­vation," Dole worked in a subtle swipe at the adminis­tration. "I trust this is the beginning of decisive action to after the Persian Gulf War that many big-name Democrats decided not to challenge the incumbent. But by November 1992, only 8 percent of voters said foreign policy was the biggest factor in their choice, according to exit polls. 
In the short term, Baker predicted Clinton would bene­fit. "because generally speak­ing the American people come together behind their presi­dent in times of military con­flict. 
The big risk is the possibili­ty of this thing going off in uncharted directions and get­ting out of control." 
Saddam's defiance in the aftermath of Tuesday's strikes only added to the air of uncer­tainty. 
The William and Katherine Devers Program in Dante Studies in conjunction with the Medieval Institute presents: 
DANTE STUDIES: UWORK IN PROGRESS" 
"Dante as Troublemaker: The Political Letters" Lino Pertile, Harvard University 
Thursday, September 5, 1996 
"Dante's Ulysses: A New Source" Robert Hollander, Princeton University Thursday, October 3'J 1996 
"Stars as Text in Dante's Poem" Alison Cornish, University of Michigan 
Thursday, November 14, 1996 
Department of Special Collections, 102 Hesburgh Library All lectures will begin at 4:00 pm and will be followed by a reception 
For further information contact the Devers Program in Dante Studies at 631-5610 
BECOME A CATHOLIC 
Sacred Heart Parish University of Notre Dame 
Offers 
R.C.I.A. with: 
• 
Parish setting on ND campus 

• 
Wednesday evening sessions 


• Alternative to tamJJUS Ministry RCIA 
Call Chris Miller at 631-7 508 
page 6  The Observer • NEWS  Wednesday, September 4, 1996  

r-----~----__.,__..__..._____~~~------~--~-~-­
VIEWPOINT 
Wednesday, September 4, 1996 page 7 
THE OBSERVER 
NoTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAJNT MARY's 01'FJCE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1996-97 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Elizabeth l'oran Managing Editon Business Manager PJuida Carson Man Casey Tom Roland 
News Editor ........................Rrac..l Prcndcrgast Advertising Manager ............................ Ellen Ryan Viewpoint Editor .................. Meaghan Smith Ad Design Manager. ..............................jed Perers Spon1 Editor ..................... Timothy Sherman Production Manager ....................... Tara Grieshop Accent f.ditor ........................... Joey Crawford Systems Manager ............................ Sean Galla van 
Saint Mary's Editor ................. Caroline Blum Controller .......................................... Tyler Weber Photo Editor .......................... Michael Ruma 
The Ob..,rver is the independent newsraper published by rhe students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administra­tion of cillu~r im.litution. Thr news is rrponed as accuratdy and objectively as possible. Unsigned edi­torial• rcpre.ent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief. Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Ediror, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Ediror. Commemarics, lcncrs and Inside Columns presrnt the views of the authors. and nm necessarily those of The Oh•erver. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's com­munity .md to Jll readt'rr.. The free expression of varying opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines Editor in-Chief 631-4542 Business Offie< 631-5313 Mimaging EJiwr/Virnrpoint 631-4541 Advertising 631-6900/8840 Sporn 631-4543 Systems/Marketing Dept. 631-8839 Nrws/Phnro 631-5323 Office Manager 631-7471 Accent/Saint Mary's 631-4540 Fax 631-6927 I>ay Editor/l'roduction 631-5303 Viewpoint E-Mail Viewpoint. I @nd.edu Gcncr01l lnfe.Jrmation 631-7471 Ad E-Mail observcr@darwin.cc.nd.cdu 
• fRIVOLATA 
Embracing the coming chill of autumn 

Fall tv lineup sends shivers down everyone sspines 
Grenlings kids! It's fall again, and that means baek to sehool for those of us for­tuna til nnough to havn avoided the working world for another year. But even for disgruntled nine-to-livers like myself, Lhn eoming of autumn is symbol­ie. The weather takns on a bit more palatable air, at least to my taste. 
Kirsten Dunne 
llalloween is on its way, giving me the rare opportunity to walk about in my everyday dothr.s without being asked why I'm in costume. And most exciting, perhaps, is the new TV season! Football is baek on. Thtl amount of time until the NBA season starts now seems much less ex1:rudatingly long. Baek, too, arc the nighllime soaps, my personal favorite being Melrose Plaee (say what you will -I still love this station). 
llopefully, Kindred: The Embraced will also he among the series returning to the nighttime lineup. Not like I need to spend another hour in front of the tube, hut I really like the series... even with its ridiculously unrealistic plots.ln ease you don't know, Kindred is a week­ly show about several dans of vampires in Los Angeles. Now, California is actu­ally a very popular hangout for vam­pires -I'll give Aaron Spelling that mueh. My problem is this: I can never 
• 000NESBURY 
bring myself to believe that this gang is really a bunch of bloodsuckers! 
The show, admittedly, gets some things right. For one, it accurately por­trays the process of making a new vam­pire (which, for you novices, involves a creature of the night taking the large majority of blood from a mortal body, and infusing that body with his or her own blood). Also, there's always a big dilemma for vampires debating whether to bring a mortal into their world; like genuine vampires do, they inevitably face a whole slew of moral issues when they fall in love with mortals. The char­aeterS on Kindred, when they're upset, cry blood tears. They move with the preternatural speed with which all vam­pires are blessed, and have a hypnotic power of persuasion over mortals. 
But I have a hard time getting past some of the other things the Kindred cast does, and I'm confident that, if this show has garnered any genuine vam­pires as viewers, they're rolling over in their graves! 
For one thing, these guys and gals ean walk around during the day with nary a care. Yeah, right! It's true that very, very old vampires, or those who have drunk the blood of these 'ftncients, are less sensitive to light than others. But they still burn, and they wouldn't think of the casual little lunchtime strolls through the park that the Kindred cast can't seem to go without. 
Speaking of lunchtime, the characters on Kindred don't miss many meals ­and I'm not talking about the usual liq­uid-only diet of traditional vampires. Sorry, guys, but I just don't buy it. First off, if a vampire eats or drinks mortal fare, he gets dreadfully ill -or at least, that's the way it it in real un-life. But even accepting that these vampires are exceptional in their ability to eat and to drink non-sanguineous fluids, the ques­tion remains: why WOULD they? You see, vampires have many of the same needs and desires as average mortals, but unlike humans, they satisfy them all in one way: sucking blood. If this bunch is extra-conscientious, they don't have to kill people to drink their blood -they can simply wet their whistle a bit and then make the mortal forget the whole matter. And I have seen this practice on Kindred, so I know the characters know how to do it .... Well, whatever the case, the diet of this group is just a wee bit far-fetched in my book. · 
Another thing -as I just stated, to a vampire, blood-drinking is the ultimate satisfaction. Nevertheless, the blood suckers on Kindred are always getting busy with each other or with some unsuspecting mortal. When I see this, I wonder what kind of dummies they think we are! Vampires have absolutely no sex drive, okay? And I might men­tion that, in addition to lacking the desire, the male variety of vampires lack the ability to do the deed. Now, The Observer is the newspaper of an upstanding Catholic University, so I'm not going to expound on this. Rather, l'll leave it to your imagination -which, of course, if you're a good Catholic, won't lead you very far .... 
Yet another quaint thing about Kindred is the ways vampires on the show die. Yes, folks -for you true amateurs out there, vampires CAN die. But it's not an easy matter to knock one of these guys off, mind you! All myths and propaganda aside, the only way a vampire will truly perish is if he is burned -by sunlight or fire -and his ashes scattered. Yet this show would have you think that you could get rid of a vampire with a mere mortal weapon! And on pne show, they drugged an unfortunate bloodsucker and left him in the sun to die. This, notwithstanding that the rest of the gang is seemingly 
GARRY TRUDEAU 
'·-.. ~.-~.~'/\·~,,,/""'f'..,, HAVB AHBAK!.' IU8 Jl./'31 fJ!a:JVt 250 Mlte5 -ANI? 71£N HAIJ 70WAJ.J<,.IN ANOTH~ AV!Ji 
/ 
«./8U., OkAYr /JUT N080ilY 
E/f.:fjAFTl3R. 
Ya/FOi.KS! 
\. 
immune to daylight -a bit of a discrep­ancy there I'd say. 
Putting aside all these quirks, the show is more than entertaining enough to keep me as a viewer. But, unfortu­nately, I'm starting to think that I'm in the minority, as I haven't heard about any season premiere of Kindred. I guess the producers' failure to educate them­selves on the undead proved too exas­perating for other viewers. Alas! I'll 
' " He is so good at griev­
ing! He wears woe as others wear velvet; sorrow flatters him like the light of candles; tears become like jewels. Well, none of that trash works with me."' 
live ·-·not forever, but live nonetheless. 
Oh yeah -one more thing. I figured 
it was about time to select a new name 
for my column, seeing as though it's 
been heading in a new direction as of 
late. And without getting too deep, let 
me say that I suppose my column has 
changed because I have. How, you may 
ask? Incidentally, I feel this is best sum­
marized by an immortal. My favorite 
vampire of all time, Lestat de Lioncourt, 
once reflected on his beloved Louis ­
who reminds me much of my former self 
-as follows: "[H)e is so good at griev­
ing! He wears woe as other wear velvet; 
sorrow flatters him like the light of can­
dles; tears become like jewels. Well, 
none of that trash works with me." Me 
neither, Lestat-at least not anymore! 
May you all prosper in the new aeade­
mic year. 
Kirsten Dunne, ND '93, ND Law '96, works for Goldberg, Weisman & Cairo, Ltd. in Chicago . 
• GUOTE OF THE DAY 
"It is the addition of strange­
ness to beauty that consti­tutes the romantic character in art.." 
-Walter Pater 
ACCENT 
page 8 Wednesday, September 4, 1996 
• ACCENT ASKS... 
If you could work anywhere on campus, where would it be and why? 

"A Saint Mary's Lake skimmer." 
Jill Embry Junior, Lemans 
"At the Snite Museum because art is inter­esting." 
Ann David Sophomore, Howard 


"I wouldn't want to!" 
Casey Bowes Junior, Zahm 
"At the computerlab, because the employees are enchanting to work with." 
Mia Rinehold Junior, Holy Cross 


"Drive the security cars because they are cool." 
Erin Schmidt Sophomore, Regina 
"At the dining hall so I eat all of the lime jello:' 
David Delgado Senior, Fisher 

----------~-----~--------~-~~-----~~------~-~--~ ~--~---~-~~~-~--~---~-~----­

Saint Mary's 
By LESLIE FIELD and highly academic. It is not, ho Accent Copy Editor Cushwa-Leighton library if you tel Junior Anne Geisler comments, "I 
T
hey are looking for a few good students. Tough. Proud. Not perfect job, but many other libraryafraid of long chicken nugget lines or overdue books. They trying to balance my work and are campus job employers and they have hired some of the ner." finest campus workers for the 1996-97 year that Saint Mary's 7. College Relations Office. has ever seen. enjoying her job in the college re Here is a look at the top ten on-campus jobs for the upcoming acad-great deal about how the office ope emic year at Saint Mary's: · guess I have been doing a lot of fil 10. Dining Hall Worker. There is a top ten list in and of itself with­said Calcagno. But, hey, these sk;! in the octagonal walls of the Saint Mary's Dining Hall. Senior English organized and much more aware, major Sue Dechatelet has made an on campus career out of her work smoothly. This job also gives stu at the dining hall. And why shouldn't she? The benefits alone are Mary's is being run, what sorts bl enough to make any student enjoy her twenty hours a week re-stock­and how their school keeps up witk ing the infamous salad bar containing the ever popular garbanzo students. beans and refilling the cereal bins every morning. The hours aren't 6. O'Laughlin Theatre assistant. bad either, according to Dechatelet. "They are very accommodating filled with quality entertainment, 1 and always work around my schedule. Sometimes it is tiring, but I black and whites, and here's the k~ really don't mind it. If you have to work, it's not a bad place to be.'' A real life, hand held, two way wa 
9. Front Desk Worker. Hope you have lots of reading to do. Most 5. RA. The power. The glory. students who we polled liked their jobs at the front desk because they This year will be a particulary ch~ were typically within the confines of their hall and did not require a dant advisors, as they must enfmi great deal of laborious work.. Front desk worker Cara Calcagno regulations and the always problen enjoys the job because, "I can just hang out and talk to all my friends. RA's are a very fair and helpful I have time to study and can remain an active participant in my hall, Courtney McEvers. "I always likCjpartaking in many of its activities throughout the year plus I can RA's were a trip! They were alwa always scam pizzas off the Papa John's guy when things are slow." advice ... and the pizza parties wereI 
8. Library Worker. This is another opportunity to study and relax: 4. ECDC. These students have ll Students typically enjoy the quiet environment. They find it peaceful good deal of time early in the moro 
Top 10 Employment Op 
By MANDl STRACHOTA Accent Writer 
Looking for some money for school? Check out these.u 
TOP 10 JOBS ON CAMPUS 
10. COPY SHOP 
9. ND VIDEO 
8. HUDDLE 
7. SWIMMING POOL/LIFEGUARD 
6. RESIDENT ASSISTANT 
5. LIBRARY 
4. GOLF COURSE 
3. STUDENT MANAGER 
2. WSND RADIO 
1. OBSERVER (an unbiased assertion, of course) 
Use-the following key when reading the job descriptions below. 
! means this is a fun job $ means this is a well-paying job 
* means this is an easy job # means this job provides plenty of study-time 
#* The Copy Shop 
Some students work at the Copy Shop to earn spending money. The 12-hour per week job does not consume too much study time. It involves making copies and sending faxes. 
#*NO Video 
ND Video offers convenient hours for students from 5-11 pm. At 8-10 hours per week, this job provides plenty of study time and pays the standard wage of &5.95 per hour for students to use for school or miscellaneous expenditures. The job includes taking rentals and making sure that everything is organized. 
#*! The Huddle 
At The Huddle, students make and serve food and ring-up cus­tomers for the standard $5.95 hourly wage. It is an easy job as well as an enjoyable one, if you don't mind working around food. And 8 hours per week leaves a sufficient amount of time to study. 
#* Swimming Pool 
This 10-hr./wk. job does not steal study time since shifts are offered during the day and on weekends. At $5.95 per hour, it provides a nice sum of money to use at school. A swimming pool attendant need only check the ID's of people coming into the pool and answer any questions that people might have. The pool is a popular place among student employees! 
$! Resident Assistant 
. While being an R.A. is not an easy job because of the responsibil­ities it entails, it is highly sought after due to its pay (free room and board) and its enjoyment level. R.A.'s spend one to two nights a week "on duty". This means that on these days they must be avail­able from 7 pm until 7 am to solve/answer any problems or questions that arise. During this time they must occasionally make rounds to make sure that everything is in order. Otherwise they are responsible for their section. Their study time can be limited during nights when they are on duty, but they choose these nights around tests. Job satisfaction for R.A. 's comes from the new relationships they develop and the interesting stories they encounter. 
#*$ The Library 
This is a coveted job by many student workers at Notre Dame. Matthew Dull works ten hours per week 
ACCENT ... 
WeJnesday, September 4, 1996 page 9 
•
omen 1n Labor 
.vevtw, a good idea to work at the 1d to lm a hit on the ehatty side. lllVP always thought it would he a 
1rkers have warned against me tim•~ in such an extreme man­
hman AngiP Calcagno has been tions ol'licn. She has learned a and as well as its policies. "I 1g and desk assistant type stuIT," ran only make orw a bit more how to kt~ep an offic•~ running ts an inside look at how Saint ramming arn !wing prnpared !unman and the status of' current 
thing •~ould lw firwr. Evenings riHuH·n to dn~ss up in your bt~st 
a walkin talkin! That's right . talkiP. It's a hPautif'ul thing. rounds and rounds and rounds. 
nging onn for Saint Mary's resi­harshnr aleohol poliei•~s. eandel tir quilll hours. But Saint Mary's p of' women, according to Senior having someone to talk to. My 
raring and had good words of Pxcnllnnt!" ay with ehildrPn. They spend a 11nd into tlw nvening using pos­
itive thinking and reinforcement to work with children, most of whom are of pre-school age. This is a very rewarding job which can be tir­ing at times. Like all campus johs, the hours are flexible. (Plus, you get to play on the swings.) 
3. Haggar desk worker. This is the life. It is tempting to bump it up to number two, but it does have one drawback: the hours. Ilaggar is open later into the night and might require some special ·hours for specific events, like dances or lectures. But the job is a good thing. Desk workers get to do a little homework, socializ!! and watch students withdraw various amounts of money from the cash machine. They are paid to be outgoing and friendly, typically a gregarious bunch. Junior Emily Broussard advises. "Get to know the desk work­ers in llaggar. They are always so nice and like to chat!" 
2. Computer Lab Assistant. These women are some of the most saught after on campus. They are very knowledable about various computer systems and have the answers to your two in the morning, pannicy, tear filled, I thought it was an IBM questions. Senior Computer wizzard Emily Bochy is a favorite assistanVlifesaver among lab junkies. 
I. Drum roll please. The number one, most desired, hightly covet­ed, job of all campus jobs is, well, non existant but, hey we, can dream, ean't we...tunnnl monitor. Imagine it. A bench at. every enter­ance. You watch the rat like walking of chilled students in December as they lind their way through the a-maze-ing underground mecca that wH lovingly call thH tunnels. They open doors for the students without dntex eards, keep an eye out for possible men lurking in the corners and bring s guitar to entertain students while they skip, not walk, to their next class. The tunnel monitor doesn't just have to remain in the dream stages. It could one day be a reality. 
ortunities for Domers 
in a Grant and Aid program which helps to pay for his education. 

lie works late at night, but he needs only to answer questions at the referenee desk. This usually leaves him with plenty of study time, except during exam times, which are pretty hectic. 
#*$ The Golf Course 
The Golf Course is a higher-paying job, with wages set at $6.35 per hour. Working ten hours per week in the afternoons leaves ample time to study. Chip Farrel, a clerk who sells merchandise at the Pro Shop, rates his job as number one. 
$! Student Manager 
Kevin Haggard, the head football manager, shared his experience with the Observer. Kevin handles the logistics of the football team and makes sure everything runs smoothly, an extremely important job at Notre Dame. He works longer hours(60-70 hours per week), which doesn't leave him a lot of time to study, but his eiTorts are re­warded. His senior year at Notre Dame is paid for and he has lots of fun in the meantime. GO IRISH!! 
$! WSND Radio 
Kate Hillman spends 20-25 hours a week in one of the hottest jobs on campus. She is the Publicity and Nocturne Director for the campus FM radio station. She spends the lesser half of this time promoting the station at events such as Student Activities Night, and the better half of this time organizing the alternantive portion of the college radio station that airs from 12:00-2:00 am. She is in charge of the schedule and the staff. and compiles lists for CMJ. Aside from being entertaining, her work does not seem to consume an incredible amount of her study time. Since she has daytime hours in O'Shaughnessy, her nights are still available for hitting the books. This exciting job also provides her with a great deal of spending money! 
!!!!! The Observer 
While it may be biased to say that working for the Observer is the number one job on campus, it deiinitely rates the highest among those who have had the opportunity to work there. As an Associate News Editor, Heather Cocks works on lay-out, production, proof­reading and even writing articles. She spends OQe night on duty which she schedules her assignments around. The time she has put in at the paper has not affected her school work thus far, it just takes a bit of time-budgeting. All of this hard work is rewarded by thn interesting people that Heather meets and the journalism experience she gains. 
For those wondering where the Dining Hall fits into this list, it ranks ofT the charts! The Dining Hall was unanimously voted The Worst Job on Campus. One worker shared her experiences. 
Jenny Metzger has worked in all areas of the Dining Hall, ranging from deli girl to silverware sorter. She works three dinners a week 
along with Saturday brunch on days when the football team plays away. Thnse hours amount to more than 10 a week and push studying bac~ into later hours of the night. When asked to comment on her experience, Jenny said, "It succumbs you to slavery and manual labor and doaling with 'icky stun·." 
Well, there you have it. The best (and worst) jobs on the Notre Dame c~mpus. ~ow you know w~:'lt, they are, so stop reading the paper, get out of your .eat, and find yourself a JOb. Until then, keep sm!lm and kAep serapin'!! 
• ACCENT SPEAKS••• 
They work hard for their money! 
By ALYSSON COOK AND "KAISER" NORA MJ:<-::ANY Assistant Saint Mary's Accent Editors 
Alysson Cook's Jobs: · 
l wanted to start this article off with a good ole' "Hi y'all". and a "congratulations" to everyone for surviv­ing .the first week and a half of classes (assuming we've all attempted to go). Okay, "So where are you going with this," you ask? Actually, I thought that since today's Accent is about "cool" campus jobs, I would give you the low-down on my campus jobs. Yes. l said "jobs," as in I have two. You're probably wondering when I find time to study. Well, I don't {to all of my profs-l'M JUST KIDDING). My jobs are really fun, so it's not as bad as H sounds. 
First, I am employed in the Media Center in the Cushwa Leighton Library at Saint Mary's College. I work tlft.een hours per week, hut 1 get loads of study time in while I'm there, and I actually get paid for it. Can't really argue, now can l? Another major plus is that the media center has T.V.'s, VCR's, and movies. This is an open invitation for me to do what I do best: procrastinate. I'm sure many of you out there can relate. ln fact. I know you can. because I'm the one who saves 'your butt when you miss your professor's showing of Ghandi. When I'm not procrastinating or studying, I deliver equipment to other buildings on campus. You've never seen the Saint Mary's campus until you've seen it from behind that squeaky wheeled cart I know you all hear rolling by.. 
My second place of employment is here. At the Observer. 1 am Assistant Accent. Editor for Wednesliay's page, so y'all will be hearing a lot from me in the future! A great deal of my time is spent at the Observer office and l basically get to run the whole show for Wednes(iay's pages. It's hard work, but my jobis all about imagination, creativity, and having fun. It's kind of like going to work to play. 
The e:xperience of working on campus has d~dlnitely scored innumerable points with me because of my not so "peaches and cream" job at Applebee's. Yes, I was a serverlbartendet/dishwasher/indenturt~d servant/etc. 
·You get the point, right? 
· My point in telling y'all this is that if you have to work; for some reason or another, your campus job doesn't have to bea drag! Isn't college all about hav· ing .fun anyway? So, of course you shouldn't feel like you're missing out on any part of the fun. becaus~} there are all sorts of neat jobs out there and all you have to do is find them. Don't forget that college is what you make of it, so whether you're studying, going to class, hanging out with friends, playing, or working, up to you to make these times some of the best. 
''Kaiser'' Meanv'• (laok of a) Job: 
don't do much. f watch a lot of Rikki Lake, if the way. yesterday's episode about Leaving" was right on.) However, l 
fix, so I work at the Observer cold, hard cash. Plus, all the cof· As \'akhov Shmirnoff would say, 
rn.rn.t<rDVI"; At least he said that before he Wa& riA'nm•t.P.ti. 
Oh well. kids, people like me make people like you look good to future employers. Aft.e'r all, someone has to make up the lower half of the class, right'? Exactly. See you inthe Observer office. or a few years down the road. in the unemployment office. But that's another column... . 
Anyone interested in writing for Accent, please contact Joey Crawford at 1-4540. 
.. 

Wednesday, September 4, 1996 The Observer· SPORTS page 10 
... The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. 
Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
Classifieds 
·NOTICES 
Entertainment Electronics Co. 3509 Grape Rd (@ Classic Stereo) 255-1172 Hrs: M-F 11-5 Sat. 10-2 You break it, we'll fix it!!! 
THAT PRETTY PLACE, Bed and Breakfast Inn has space available for football wknds. 5 Rooms with private baths, $70 -$90, Middlebury, 30 miles from campus. Toll Road, Exit #107, 1-800-418-9487 
Students: Do you need a typist? Call Kathy at 277-2178. 
50% off-used books bought/sold. 2 day ordering, any textbook. 4 blocks South (Notre Dame ­Howard.) 7 days 10-6; 233-2342. Pandora's books. 
Retired widow available for house­sitting. Short term or long term. Call 633-4159 for details. 
COME AND SEE THE BIGGEST ART SALE OF THE YEAR AT ND -THE HUNTINGTON GRAPHICS PRINT AND POSTER SALE AT LAFORTUNE STUDENT CENTER. HUNDREDS OF ART PRINTS, ESCHERS, ROCK BANDS, AND OTHERS. THIS WEEK ONLY THROUGH SEPT. 6. 9:30AM­6:00PM DAILY. 
Green Lantern is really looking for a bass player-no joke. Call Dan 3674 
ILOST & FOUND I 
LOST -a camera at Bridget's at the end of spring semester 
if found please call Nicole x1412 
I lost a pair of glasses On-Campus. If found, please call Drew @x1301. 
WANTED 
HELP WANTED-$10.25 Part-lime work. Flexible eve. and weekend hours. No exp. required. All majors welcome. Scholarships available. Info-call 282-2357 
NEED DRUMMER 
ALT. BAND 
VELVETS TOP J HARVEY 
283-0833 I 232-7392 
WANTED: Used TV-set 
Call 634-4540 
NATIONAL PARKS HIRING­
Positions are now availalbe at 
National Parks, Forests & Wildlife 
Preserves. Excellent benefits+ 
bonuses! Call: 1-206-971-3620 
extN55848 
ALASKA SUMMER EMPLOYMENT -Students Needed! Fishing Industry. Earn up to $3,000­$6,000+ per month. Room and Board! Transportation! Male or Female. No experience necessary. Call (206)971-3510 exiA55847 
EASTERN EUROPE JOBS-Teach basic conversational English in Prague, Budapest, or Krakow. No teaching certificate or European languages required. Inexpensive Room & Board + other benefits. For info. call: (206)971-3680 ext.K55842 
Make money selling great 
European sweaters. Call for inter­
view. 237-0866 
Earn extra money lei only five min­utes a day! Student carriers are needed to deliver the Chicago Tribune inside all dorms for this school year. Please call 684-4302 for more infor­mation. 
VOLUNTEERS NEEDED The EARLY CHILDHOOD DEVELOPMENT CENTER with programs at Saint Mary's College and the University of Notre Dame is looking for volunteers who enjoy working with young children. If you would be interested in spending 2 hours a week reading cbildren's books, building with blocks, and singing songs with children. please call Cindy Hestad, 284-4693 (SMC) or Thayer Kramer, 631-3344 (ND). Please join our fun filled days. 
CITY NEWS SERVICE needs reliable part-time carriers for morning newspapers. Start imme­diately, workload and pay variable. Call Mike x1186 
Immediate opening for part-time afternoon secretary approx. 30 hrs./wk. Apply at WISSCO Irrigation Inc., 1820 South Bend Ave. or call 277-9851. Within walking distance of campus. 
FOR RENT 
Non smoking female roomate want­ed to share nice home. Large bed­room, completely furnished. $300 deposit/$300 month. 9 or 12 month lease. You'll love it. Call631-1297. 
St4dent Apt.-6 blocks from campus, affordable, clean 2-bedroom furnished-$360 Heat and water included 755 South Bend Ave. (corner of St. Peter & S.B. Ave.) deposit, references 
1-800-582-9320 
1, 2 & 3 BDRM HOMES NEAR CAMPUS. AVAIL. NOW.272-6306 
OWNER TO SUBLET PURDUE 
WK-END OR WK 9/13-9/20 AT 
VARSITY CLUB RESORT HOTEL 
AT DISCOUNT. SLEEPS 4, 
KITCHEN, HOT TUB, POOL, 
SPORTS LOUNGE, ETC. $200 
WK-END NITES, $700/WK. 219­
291-5849 
1 BDRM. IN 3-BDRM HOME. 
CLOSE TO NO, SAFE, USE OF 
ALL UTILITIES & KITCHEN. $275/MO. PAUL 232-2794. 
SPACIOUS, 2BR APT, $370 
5 BLOCKS F/CAMPUS 
232-4827. 
ROOMS-NIGEL Y DECOR. IN PRI­VATE HOME, 2 MI. N. OF CAM­PUS. FOOTBALL WKNDS., CONT. BKFST INCL. CALL KIM 277-8340 
House for rent Lake Maxinkukee 45 min Notre Dame 480. CA FP APPL. $650. 317-942-2108 after 6 317-942-2408. 
FOR SALE 
89 tercel 80k auto $3200 
271-8280 
Mac Pwrbk 150, $500 
Mac Pwrbk 5300cs, $2000 
271-8280 
87 Plymouth. new parts & tuned 4 dr auto dependable car. $950 obo 1-9397 
WORD PROCESSOR 
Smith Corona, GREAT COND 
$100 OBO 634-2575 Lauren 
Who Needs A Bed? 
2 new single beds for sale! 
Mattress, Boxspring, and 
Headboard included. Asking $275 
each. Call Jarrod at 
234-7601. 
CAR FOR SALE 1993 EAGLE TALON ES HATCH­BACK 16V WHITE Fully-Equipped, Like New in Perfect Condition, Reasonably Priced Call 273-8997 or 631-5884 
COUCH FOR SALE.272-6306 
VW 90 JETIA GL 2DR 5SPD 
SNRF SPAT-TUNED. IMMACU­
LATE! $6950/BEST 277-3569 
TECH LINE DRP-FRNT DRESS­ERIDSK WHITE EXCLNT CND $98 277-3569 
One fine futon & frame. $80 080. 
Dan x4-3996. 
92 JETIA 67K SSP, CRUISE, 
SUNROOF,+. $8.500 287-1521 
9MTHOLD 
COUCH $150 
OAK TABLE+CHAIRS 130 
273-4192 
4 SALE 
2 Purdue GA's 
219-271-2837 
TICKETS 
••DAVE MATIHEWS Ttx•• 
Will trade 2 center box seats for 
DMB for one Purdue GA. Call 
Mickey at 1350 
NOTRE DAME GA'S WANTED ALL GAMES HOME AND AWAY 232-0058 24 HAS. BUY -SELL -TRADE 
TICKET-MART, INC. 
WANTED: NOTRE DAME GA'S ANY/ALL GAMES. PLEASE CALL 232-0061. 
Buy-trade all games & season GA's. 24 hours & local cash pick­up. 312-404-4903 
I need student Ticket books! Leave a message for Bryan at: 273-2812 $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ 
NOTRE DAME-VANDERBILT TICKETS AVAILABLE 1-800-852-7771 
I NEED FOOTBALL GA'S! WILL BEAT ANY OFFER! CALL 243-1287 
Need stud. tkt app I book! $$$ x4893 
NEEDED: 
• 
MARRIED STUDENT TICKETS FOR SEASON 

• 
GAs FOR OSU WILL BARGAIN, CALL 258-6056 


•• HEAD IN' TO TEXAS •• Can you sell us ND -UT tix? call Todd x1668 or Shan x1833 
Need 3 RESERVED SEAT tickets lor WASH. Call Brian@ 1648. 
Need 4 Purdue GAs. Call Bobby 
x1902. 
NEED 1 PURDUE TICKET 
STUDENT OR GA 
CALL AMY X4218 
WANTED: Student ticket app. Call243-9193 
Need 1 Purdue GA. Call 634-0549 Matt. 
NEED GA'S FOR THE WASH. GAME. WILL PAY GOOD MONEY. CALL#2456 
NEED 2 PURDUE GAs 
Call Kieran @634-4487 
$$$ Need 4 OSU GAs. Call Collect 
Dave 810-642-8225 after 7 
Need accomodations for NO-Vandy??? ND alum has an 

extra room @Opryland Hotel in 
Nashville forTh., Fri. and Sat. for 
solo@ cost. 
Call Brian@ 216-861-3757 
I need a student ticket book. I will 
pay big $$$$$$. 
Please call Matt @ 273-6061 
Need 2 Purdue GA's & 
1 OSU Student ticket 
Call Sara X0928 
Help! I need two Washington GA's 
for parent's first ND game. Call 
X2538 and ask for lnga. 
2 GA's SEASON TICKETS DESPERATELY NEEDED Please Call 256-017 4 after 6 pm 
Need to buy up to 6 PURDUE TIX­GA or STUDENT. Call Meg @232­7839 
$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$NE ED PURDUE TIX WILL PAY BIG $$$CHRIS 288-9102 
Dave Mathews/Black Crowes 1st 1 0 Rows 232-0058 
JUNIOR PARENT WEEKEND 
RUTGERS TICKETS AVAILABLE 
PLEASE CALL 232-0058 
••DAVE MATIHEWS Ttx•• 
Will trade 2 center box seats for 
DMB for one Purdue GA. Call 
Mickey at 1350 ' 
NEED: 2 GAs lor PURDUE for my 
parents. Please call, Katie x2855 
NOTRE DAME GA'S WANTED 
ALL GAMES HOME 
AND AWAY 
232-0058 
24 HAS. 
BUY -SELL -TRADE 
TICKET-MART, INC. 
WANTED: NOTRE DAME GA'S ANY/ALL GAMES. PLEASE CALL 232-0061. 
I NEED GA TIXS ALL HOME GAMES.272-6551 
I Need Ohio State :ncketsl!!l Call Chris at 634-1305 
ND SEASON & INDIVIDUAL GA FOOTBALL TIX WANTED. CHECK OUR PRICES BEFORE YOU SELL. 674-7645. 
N.D. FOOTBALL GA TIX BOUGHT & SOLD 232"2378 -A.M. 288-2726-P.M. 
ND ALUM NEEDS FOOTBALL SEASON TICKETS FOR PERSON­AL USE ONLY WILL PAY WELL 2773097 
FOOTBALL TICKETS NEEDED FOR OSU GAME 2 AND 2 OR 4 TICKETS TOGETHER CALL ROBT. COLLECT 216-439-2192 AFTER 4 
. WANTED TO BUY OHIO STATE OR WASH. VS. ND.D TIX-CALL DAVE (614)764-7355 
Buying N.D .. Football Tickets, Public and Faculty Seats Call 1-800-255-2850 
NEED PURDUE TIX PLEASE CALL X4717 
Married std tix 4 sale call2712598 
Need Two Washington G.A.'s for family, my tuition depends on it. Will pay HUGE bucks! Call Matt @ 234-8474 Thanks. 
Will pay big bucks for student sea­son tix. Matt @ 234-8474. 
FINANCIAL REWARDS AWAIT YOU! Alum seeks happiness & fuzzy school memories. Will gleeful­ly pay TOO MUCH $ for 2 GA tixs. OHIO & WASHINGTON preferred, but not picky. Please call our busi­ness collect, (9-4), & ask lor TED or JENNIFER. 616-925-0629 
------WANTED----­MARRIED STUDENT TICKETS AND REGULAR STUDENT TICK­ETS $$$$$$ 
CALL KIM MARTIN 273-4789 
NEED Football Tickets 2 for OSU, Washington, Airforce, Pitt Call Laura 232-2976 
NEED 4 PURDUE GA'S. WILL PAY GOOD $$$. CALL x2456. 
NEED: 5 PURDUE, 5 OHIO STATE, 2 AIR FORCE, AND 2 WASHINGTON TICKETS. PLEASE HELP MElli CALL SUSAN X4268. 
I NEED TIX FOR NO-PURDUE GAMEl! (4 STUDENT, 3 GA) CALL COURTNEY X3525 
WANTED: TICKETS OSU VS ND 614-687-0380 CALL COL­LECT AFTER 9:00PM TOP$ PAID 
Need 6-8 GA Tix. AIR FORCE 913-541-3240 
NEEDED: ONE G.A. FOR WASH­INGTON GAME WILL PAY$$$$ CALL JANEL 4-2798 
Tickets are NEEDED for PURDUE and OSUI! Willing to buy or trade! Call4-3568. 
Tickets are NEEDED for PURDUE and OSUII Willing to buy or trade! Call 4-3568. 
n. d. tickets for sale 271 1635 
Trade 4 WA GA's for 2 OH GA's Help! 243-9390 
NEED PURDUE TIX!!! CALL ALl 289-4922 
$$$$ I NEED STUD. TIX Booklet!! Will pay big $$$ Call Mike 243-9224!! 
I NEED a Purdue STUD Tix Call Mike 243-9224 
REALLY REALLY NEED WASH­INGTON GA'S. PLEASE CALL 243-9398 OR 273-9278 ASAP. 
$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ 
My family desperately NEEDS 
GA's for tile Ohio State Game. 
Please call Jon @ x 1889 $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ 
GA's/Stu lor Sale ... Home/Away All Games... Leave B/0 for any game...Call Tony x0500 
Two stud tix for sale-all games x2279 
Need 2 GA's for Washington. Will pay big$ Julie x2141 
$NEED OSU, WASH, & AF TIX 216-995-1902 5-7 PM EDT M-F 216-650-5264 7-9 PM EDT M-F 
PLEASE HELP!!!! I need three GA'S for Purdue. call Brian @ 2182 
Need 1 GA for Purdue Call Dave @ x4798 
NEED STU BKL TS REG & MARRIED 2719387 
I need 2 Purdue tix-wantto trade for 2 Pitt GA's? Call 802 273-2554 
ND ALUM NEEDS OSU/WASH/AF/RUT/PITI TIX CALL MIKE 212-372-7214 
Need tickets for N.D.-Texas Sept.21 Call1-800-840-3548 
'93 Alum needs 1 GA or stud. tix. for Purdue game (sorry your buddy can't make it-sell me your extra). Kevin 704-365-2214, wein­mankc@aol.com 
Wanted: Unwanted Law/Grad. stu­dent season football ticket booklet. Top $paid 312-919-9500 Daniel 
ND Alum has PITI GA's to TRADE for OSU GA's. Call Brian (717-566­5856). Leave message. 
NEED FOOTBALL TIX CALL 233­5719 FOR BILL-ANY GAMES 
G.A.'S SEASON TICKETS 
G.A. WANTED PLEASE HELP IF YOU CAN CALL 273-6929 
REALLY REALLY NEED WASH­
INGTON GA'S. PLEASE CALL 
243-9398 OR 273-9278 ASAP. 
need married/student booklets x1528jaret 
PERSONAL 
THE COPY SHOP in the LaFortune Student Center is NOW HIRING student employees! Stop in for details and to apply. 
.....ZAP YOUR FAr•••• Lose Weight & Feel Great 1 00% Natural and Guaranteed No More Starving! Just RESUL TSI Call: (219) 289-5751 
Hey Phishies! Looking to trade legs? e-mail your tape lists to me at crossen.6@nd.edu and I'll con­tact you with my list. I have approx. 150 hours to trade, mostly crispy. NO NEWSIES! 
$5.50 HAIRCUT 
VITO'S BARBERSHOP 
1523 LINCOLNWAY WEST 
SOUTH BEND 
8-5-M-F 
8-4-SAT. 
Need Advice? Classes? Clubs? Traumas? LOVE?? send your let­ters with a first name only to ALICE c/o Accent at the Observer, 314 LaFortun,e. Expert replies promised. 
Sue's Sucks! 
Won't you be won't you be won't you be my neighbor? 
Thanks for getting the tickets, guys. Wish I could be there .... 
Lardy Bastard! You really thought I'd call every day didn't you? Like the pull quote on 3 yesterday. 
New Kids on the Block Fan Club 
contact Ann at X-2562 
There once was a man in Utica ..... 
Hey Pooce! Boys are silly, right? 
Right!! 
But John is cool!! II Alysson said so. 
Congratulations, Scott and Lydijal Bull want my movies back. 
The Notre Dame linebacking crew is like four 6'3" Chiappettas with a bad temperament. 
We're gain' deep!! 
CJ, I think I saw this little kid on your bike. He was wearing a Sandy the Shark shirt. Except it fit him. 
Hey KY girl -stay tuned for dirty NKOTB news 
And the people cried, 'What are we to do?! Lord Emmitt has fallen on his head! 
Jim, its a good thing you bulked up this summer. We need the big body to block on the CJ Special. 
My wallet's gone! I 
Alysson wil divulge the secrets of her sordid past. 
I must be invited to the wedding of Spicoli and his Number 1. 
Group Shout out to Sa 
Long distance shout out to Tuss 
Auditions!!! Auditions!!! SHENANIGANS' 
Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Singing and Dancing Ensemble 
Wed. 6:30pm-10:00 pm 
Thur. 6:30pm-10:00 pm 
204 O'Shaughnessy 
Call 631-5896 For more info 
Auditions!! I Auditionsll! 
Montana Mike, did you see that last ad???? 
The Cincinnati Bungles start anoth­er wonderful season. The Lions will rebound!! 
Fat Joe and the Mob return to tile Dining hall!!! 
Alysson-Who ended up being right? and how lng ago was it? 
We work too hard to eat cold burger king. I'm sure what ever harmful parasitic elements that were in our cheesburgers never got their chance to invade the campus since the the food was cold by the time we got to the office. Keep up the good work 
I miss your belly ...and evertylhing 
elselll What, you don't have any 
pictures of me?l?l 
There's a band that I love Called Trash Can Sinatras, 
But a guy named Jed 
Didn't care what my love was. 
For when I came home 
And pressed on the button, 
In place of the music 
The silence seemed sudden. 
He'd bribed the roommate 
And broken and entered 
And taken the CO's 
Around which my life centered. 
Didn't he know 
That I would be vexed 
And use the Observer 
To print the sad text? 
I'm refusing to sigh, 
To wail or to weep, 
Though my sorrow is poignant, 
My hostility, deep. 
Best of luck to Ryno and Rich inn 
theirsvarsity debuts. Also Good 
luck to Nelson the cord boy in his 
Prime time television debut. 
It is almost 1 :30 
Who says that picking a SYR .date 
is easy? 
Dave-
You are a total lifesaver. I don't 
know what! would do without you! 
There I finally said everylhing that 
you needed to hear. 
I love working with John. He is a 
TOTAL STUD! Without him my life 
would be nothing! Please stay!! 
LUV-Kathleen 
... 
~ednesday~ Septem~er ~:__! 90~ The Observer • SPORTS page 11 .... 
• US Cr:a.ll 
Crowd favorite Edberg advances into quarterfinals 
Am><iated Press at age 39 -the year Edberg Ivanisevic. NEW YORK won for the first time -has a "The crowd was behind me Stefan Edberg is conjuring 
player been such a sentimental once again," said Edberg, a lit­up the magic of Jimmy Connors favorite with the crowd. tle surprised because he never at the U.S. Open. He's only 30, but he's playing heard such cheers here in his 
In his own quiet, yet fiery in his 54th consecutive and prime when he was respected way, Edberg surged into the final Grand Slam event. They but not quite so revered. "It quarterfinals Tuesday with a roar for him on each winning does help, but at the same time 
list-pumping 6-7 (7-2). 7-6 (7­
point, clap for him when he's you need to play good tennis in 2), 6-4, 6-4 victory over down. They've been doing it all the match to get them behind Britain's Tim Henman. 
tournament, and they can be you. As long as you win the last 
Not since Connors' amazing expected to do it Thursday one, that's what counts." run to the 1991 semifinals here when he plays No. 4 Goran Edberg had the crowd 

screaming for him at the end 
against Henman by sweeping 
the final 12 points. Edberg, who 
hadn't gone this far at the Open 
since winning it for the second 
straight time in 1992, now must 
find a way to cope with the bru­
tal serves of Ivanisevic. 
The Croatian served 20 aces 
-one at 130 mph -to reach 
the Open quarters for the first 
time with a 6-4, 3-6, 6-3, 7-6 
(7 -2) victory over unseeded 
Andrei Medvedev of the 
Ukraine. 
"Now starts the real tough 
matches," Edberg said. 
There was nothing tough about Monica Seles' 48-minute, 6-0, 6-3 crushing of Amanda Coetzer in the women's quar­terfinals. Coetzer didn't even come within a point of winning a game until she finally won one to make it 3-1 in the second set. Coetzer won only five points in the first set. 
"Throughout the tournament, I always have one bad set" in each match, Seles said, thinking of her second set against Coetzer as bad. "At this stage they can take advantage of it. I have to start to focus on every set. (Coetzer) is a great fighter, one of the best. It could have been really close." 
It wasn't. 
Seles, No. 2, next goes to the semifinals Friday against the player she beat in last year's semis -No. 4 Conchita Martinez. 
"I don't think she's unbeat­able at all," Martinez said opti­mistically. She has lost all eight of her matches against Seles. 
Martinez fought off three set­points in a tiebreaker, then cruised to a 7-6 (8-6), 6-0 victo­ry over Linda Wild. 
Edberg had a tough enough time in his 3-hour, 5-minute match against Henman, a quar­terfinalist at Wimbledon. This was their first match, though they practice often against each other in England, where they both live. 
The loudest roar of all came in the second-set tiebreaker when Edberg won the most exhilarating point of the match. The Brit launched a backhand lob that looked like a winner, but Edberg scampered back, chased it down and sent back a defensive lob that seemed to take forever to come down 
before it landed in the corner. 
Henman had plenty of time to 
wait for it, and he sent back an 
overhead to Edberg's baseline. 
Edberg slugged a forehand, 
only to see Henman drive a 
backhand crosscourt. Again it 
looked like a winner, and again 
Edberg pulled out a little magic 
-a running backhand into the 
corner that Henman couldn't 
touch. 
"That's what it takes to win a 
match," Edberg said. "It was 
one of the great points of the 
match. These are the points 
that lift your game. That's what 
tennis is all about -getting 
winners when you need them." 
That shot gave Edberg a 6-2 lead in the tiebreaker, and he quickly closed it out with a ser­vice winner. Though they played two more close sets, Edberg never was in trouble again. 
For the third time this tour­nament, Edberg found himself facing an opponent with an injury. In his opening upset of Wimbledon champion Hichard Krajicek, the Dutchman took a timeout for a nosebleed. In Edberg's second match, Bernd Karbacher retired in the fourth set with a strained left ham­string. This time, Henman needed treatment for a groin pull in the fourth set. 
Maybe lvanisevic should worry about what peril will befall him, though he didn't sound too concerned. 
"I say that if I reach the sec­ond week I can do a lot of dam­age in this tournament," lvanisevic said. "That's what I'm doing now. I'm playing bet­ter and better every match. Whoever wants to beat me, the guy has to play unbelievable. 
"I got my confidence back. First time in my life I believe I can do really well here." 
Although he made only 48 percent of his first serves, lvanisevic double-faulted only once. Medvedev served 12 aces and six double-faults. 
"lie's improved so much," Edberg said of lvanisevic. "He's so much more confident than before." 
Asked if would defend the title next year if he wins, Edberg replied in his typically deadpan way: ''I'll come back and watch next year." 
Notre Dame • Vanderbilt 7ickets Available 1-800-852-7771 
Paid Positions Available For..• 
-web Produ.ct:ion Team Members 
Worlc1wic1e Web Publishing of <t.:ach ()hs••rvc.>r issue: 
The W"eb Production Te.un Members are responsible £or publishing the daily edition o£ the Observer on the Internet-The Observer offers rhe best learning environment £or online publishing-I£ interested, contactJason Huggins at The Observer, 314 LaFortune 
Student Center. No experience necessary!! 


----------------------------------------------~----------­
page 12 
• SPORTS BRIEFS 
SHORIN~RYU KARAT~i:b 

Players Honored 
Observer Staff Repon 
The Irish had honors bestowed on two of their women's soccer players this week. Senior Amy VanLaecke and freshman Jenny Streiffer were named BIG EAST Players of the Week on Monday. VanLaecke, who scored scored five goals this weekend, was named BIG EAST Offensive Player of the Week. In the Irish's victory over Providence this Saturday, VanLaecke recorded a hat trick, tying a record for most goals scored in a half. On Sunday, in the victory over Boston College, VanLaeke scored two more goals. Streiffer was named BIG EAST Rookie of the Week for her nine-point perfor­mance against Providence. She scored two goals and had five assists to set a new Notre Dame record with nine points. Also she tied an Irish record with three assists in a half. Streiffer also registered three assists in the first half of the game against Providence and in the second half against Boston College. 


PRf:RF.QUISITE: ADRENAIJNE 

----------------------------~~~~~~~~=---------------------------------------~~-­
• SMC VOLLEYBALl ­
New era of Belles leaders trample Manchester 
By SHANNON RYAN 
Sports Writer 
For volleyball captain Kelly Meyer, the role of leadership hasn't come easily. The Saint Mary's junior has been accus­tomed to relying on the guid­ance, communication, and experience of upperclassmen. 
Hut not this year. 
In her home opener Tuesday night, Meyer lead her team to a victory in three straight sets over Manchester College. 
Meyer now finds herself lead­ing SMC's volleyball team which is loaded with a young crew of seven freshmen, one sopho­more and only two juniors. 
Meyer, the 5'6" setter, com­mented, "It's been hard to slip into the leadership role. Juniors should be experienced in communication." 
As co-captains, sophomore Laura Schreeg and Meyer lind the difficulties of this transition fading with each game. 
Meyer is not the only one who notices the part of captain com­ing more easily. Head coach Julie Schroeder-Biek is also pleased to observe many of her players who are not natural leaders stepping into the role nicely. 
With a majority of freshmen, many of them have helped by filling the role of leader as well. These first year students were at the tops of their high school volleyball teams and have brought their team work skills with them to Saint Mary's. 
Each member contributes to the team in a variety of ways. As their coach stated, "They compliment each other well in their weaknesses and in their strengths." 
Freshmen Courtney Love's outstanding communication tal­ents, Mary Rodovich's and Melissa Miller's powerful serves, and Katie Candiano's ability to come off the bench well are a few of the many ben­efits to the young team. Although they are still getting to know each other, they pos­sess the talents vital to win. 
Luckily, Meyer, along with the rest of the team, did not appear to. have any glitches in the lead­ership department last night in their battle against Manchester. 
Finishing 2-2 in the Calvin College Tournament last week­end, the Belles defeated the Spartans in three straight sets last night during their first home game. The scores of 15­11, 15-6, and 15-9 did not, however, reflect the excellent level at which they performed. 
The Belles started off slowly in the first set, but later took a 


~t!l~ 
ESP 

Gamewatch "96 
~{!' .... T' 
~ VAN.ILT 
Notre Dame vs. Vanderbilt Thursday, September 5, 7:00p.m. at LaFortune Student Center 
Come watch the opening game ~ on one of two big screen TVs 
Free Food Raffle Drawing 
provided by the HUDDLE 
•Crazy ESPN Stuff
pizza 
• $100 Bookstore Gift Certificates
lemonade 
•Autographed Lou Holtz Footballs 
popcorn 
Brought to you by: Student Activities, SARG, and the Huddle 
10-3 lead. The Belles reached a plateau at the score of 14-6 and allowed Manchester to score five unanswered points. Finally, SMC took control and scored that fifteenth point to win the first set 15-11. 
Rodovich led off serving the second set urging the team to a 7-0 start. Rodovich, an outside attacker. said they "pulled themselves together" in the middle set. 
"This was our best playing," Rodovich said. "The motivation was on our side and we were going to keep it there." 
Not only was Saint Mary's playing exceptionally, but Manchester was not doing much to deter them. The Spartans had major problems with the fundamentals of the game and had to focus just to get the ball over the net. Saint Mary's easily claimed the sec­ond set 15-6 and lead the game 2-0. 
A seven point deficit is not what SMC had in mind while starting off the third set after playing so well in the first two. Nevertheless, this was the reali­ty just minutes into the set. 
Struggling with serve recep­tion and passing, the Belles realized they needed to apply all they've learned in practice and the preseason if they wanted to win in straight sets. The Belles concentrated and came back from a 8-1 deficit to win 15-9. 
The team hopes their success will carry over into their week­end tournament at Hanover College. With great versatility and depth, they are sure to encounter many more wins like their 3-0 victory against Manchester. 

Mary Radovich is one of seven freshmen leading the Belles this Season 
Please Recycle the Observer 


page 14 
·­
Kinder 
continued from page 16 
end) regardless." 
There has been no firm indi­cation of how long Kinder will be off the field. 
"The plan right now is just to miss Vanderbilt," he explained. "I just want to get some good treatment." 
Kinder lit up the 
V-ball 
continued from page 16 
man year Sharpley and Folk! were the top two recruits in the nation and both have experi~ ence with the US National Team. Folk!, a 6-2 outside hit­ter, earned NCAA Freshman of the Year honors in 1993, and was the first alternate on the US Olympic volleyball team this summer in Atlanta. 
Notre Dame will look to make things tough for Sharpley, their setter, as she is the focus of their attack. In her sophomore campaign she was one of Stanford's tri-captains and the coaching staff considers her as good a setter as Stanford has ever had including three for­mer All-Americans. 
The Irish will definitely have to be on top of their game to overcome the Cardinal. One key for the Irish will be com­munication and simply believ­ing that they can win, as Stanford's advantages over the Irish are in the mental game. 
"We have to have really good communication, and we need to compete harder than we have so far," commented junior set­ter Jaime Lee. "We also should be knowledgeable of who they have and we need to focus on taking care of the ball on our side of the net." 
Brown's concern lays in the intangible aspect of the game. "We need to believe that we can beat a top five team. They 
• 
Wednesday, Septemher 4, 1996'The Observer • SPORTS 
Soccer 
continued from page 16 
win on the road against a Big East opponent (something they failed to do all of last year), they have played well defen­sively, registering two shutouts and giving up only 8 shots in 180 minutes of play, and they have allowed their talented, young players to gain the expe­rience that will be necessary if the they hope to compete against the best of the Big East this season. The Observer\Rob Finch 
Senior midfielder Konstantin Koloskov scores in last night's shutout. 

We're cheap but we're not easy. 
We're The University of Alabama, and we're looking for a few good MBAs. 
Commodores' defense in the 1995 contest for 110 yards on 17 carries and scored the first Irish touchdown of the game. Farmer· and Denson also 
recorded  a  combined  106  
yards  on  26 carries in  the  
game.  

Kinder tore a medial collater­al ligament in his right knee during the team's first practice at the 1995 Fiesta Bowl, forc­ing the tailback to end his sophomore season on the side, lines. 
have been in the Final Four three of the past four years. So they may have a mental advan­tage because they have beaten great teams and we cannot say that." 
Lack of confidence does not seem to be a problem with sophomore middle blocker Lindsay Treadwell who simply stated that "We have to play like we know we can. We know we're good enough to beat them." 
Another one of coach Brown's concerns is the depth and strength of Stanford from top to bottom. 
"They don't have just one player we can key on. They are very balanced so we can't take as many gambles." 
Making things more compli­cated are injuries. Out for the Irish are junior setter Carey May (dislocated shoulder) and senior outside hitter Kristina Ervin (sprained ankle). Filling in at setter will be Jaime Lee and senior Jennifer Briggs will start at outside hitter. 
Rounding out Brown's lineup will likely be captain Jenny Birkner and Angie Harris at the outside hitter slots while Treadwell and freshman Mary Leffers will fill the middle. Jennifer Rouse, a 6-5 senior, will also see action in the mid­dle to take advantage of her physical size and blocking abili­ty. 
Birkner, Lee, Harris, and Leffers are all coming off all­tournament performances in this past weekend's Shamrock Classic. 
HAVE SOMETHING TO SAY? USE OBSERVER CLASSIFIEDS. 

T 
he flagship of an excellent business school, our MBA 
program is nationally ranked 
for high quality and cost­effectiveness. Check out our references at right. What's more, a booming internation­al business community (Mercedes, JVC, British Steel) and outstanding computer, research, and classroom facilities make a UA business degree an especially great value. Our admission requirements? Like a lot of things about us, they're a little different: 
• 
Most MBA programs require several years' work experience -we want you right out of college. 

• 
Most programs prefer business majors -our students come from a wide range of backgrounds, and we like it that way. (Liberal-arts majors welcome here.) 


We're looking for bright, motivated students -especially those hoping to combine academic challenges with hands-on experience. 
If your grades and GMAT scores tell us you have potential, you can get an early start on the education -and the career -you want. 
IC~BAI 
The University of Alabama is an equal opportunity educational institution/employer. 


"The University of 
Alabama offers one of 
the most low-cost, 
sought-after MBAs. 
But this doesn't come 
at the cost of 
academics." 
The Princeton Review Student Access Guide to the Best Business Schools, 1996 Edition 
"Business Week selected 15 quality business schools that offer consumers the most bang for the buck ••• Alabama has been steadily increasing the quality of its students." 
Business Week Guide to the Best Business Schools, Fourth Edition 

Send us your GMAT scores. We'll do the rest. 
Write: 
The University of Alabama 
Manderson Graduate School of Business College of Commerce and Business Administration Box 870223 Tuscaloosa, AL 35487-0223 
Call: toll-free 888/UofA MBA 
WWW ..ddl'ess: http://www.cba.ua.edu/-cba/cbagmba.html 

Organizational Meeting 
Date: Thursday September 5, 1996 
Location: Hesburgh Library Auditorium 
Time: 7:00PM Beginners --Intermediate --Expert All are welcome Bring Checkbook, and Health Insurance Info. 
We Need Riders to Be champions of the Region and the Nation!!! 
'"' 
·,-... -.'..... _'ll'~"f.J·· ~·"'··..• .. ........
~ --..............·.T'·····"·l>·······················"'····.............·~·.tJ·,.·_.. .....-~ 

·----------------------------------~~~~=-~~~=---------------------------------------~~--­

MIXED MEDIA JACK OHMAN 
o 
fF liNCOLN 6QlFEOH. \ 53... ~R.r~o:!.. ~~ 
84... ~ ~ ...., o;g
( <
82,.. (_ . ~ii ~ 
. o;· 

MIKE PETERS 
MOTHER GOOSE & GRIMM 

SCOTT ADAMS 
r------------------------,u~-----------------------­
A.D~INI5TRATOR ::11
~~~--------~~~~=-----~0 

CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 28 Beethoven's "--Solemnis"
1 Axis flier, in 
30 Harrow's rival headlines 31 God 
w.w. il 
33 Helps for Reps. and Dems. 
4 Consomme 
9 1936 Luce play, 
34Droop
with "The" 37 Part 3 of the
14 "Honest" one 
comment 15 Disprove 
41 Turquoise, e.g. 16 Piano key wood 42 Electric unit 
11 Start of a 43 Bucolic commenl by 44 Regal term of 
G. K. Chesterton address 
19 Bar seat 45 It has a wheel on its heel
20 Org. 47 Part 4 of the
21 A Gabor 
comment 22 A Guthrie 
51 Autumn tool 23 Oahu neckwear 54 Prefix with 
culture comment 55 Future fish 
24 Part 2 of the 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
-:-+-+..,.+:--1 25 Undiluted 26 Delineate 27 Pulpits 29 Poet Plath 
~ WITH A FE.W ~ STRATEGIC E.DITS ~ I WILL TR~NStoRM 2 THE OFFICE lNTO 
0 
:;: ''MELROSE PLACE.. II 
56 Traitor Aldrich 57 Mild cigar 59 End of the 
comment 61 More than 
miffed 62 Less cordial 63 Architectural 
prefix &4 Utopias 65 Heals 66 Swindle 
DOWN 
1 Jazz pianist Ahmad-­2 Mistreat 3 Negative attitude 4 Origin of some PBS series 5 Takes another mate 6 "Twelfth Night" countess 7Giant 8 Scornful cry 9 N.B.A.'s Unseld 10 Get_ 11 Othello's people 12--Gay 13 Popular stocking 
18 Positioned 
... 
z 
~ ~ 
! 
~ 
, 
: 
... 
.., 
! 
.. ·;: "<D.. 
YES, ALICE ... I WILL BE YOUR "f"\ONKE'I' OF LOVE." 
I 

31 "Understand?" 32 Suffix with ethyl 33 Poker win 
34 In a steady flow 
35 Palindrotnic exclamation 36 Set 38 Ripped 39 Wasn't colorfast 40 Beat in a relay 44 Slalom trail 45 Easy winner 
46 Fell in a faint, with "over" 47 Store 
(campaign
48 Gave the eye 
events) 
49 Speechify 
59 Pep 50 Moment 60 April initials 
Answers to any three clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420-5656 (75¢ per minute). 
Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: (800) 762-1665. 
YOUR HOROSCOPE IIAI'I'\ IIIKTIIIIA \! ll'i 1"111-: NEXT \'EAK OF \'OliR LIFE: 
~;~;~~ ~~~~:;~:~J/~-~:c0;,0::1 ~:~~~~ ~~~ 
help \OU capnaliLc on your innova· live idea,. Alihough career and liiWil· eial i>Sues dominalc in !he nwnlhs ju.,l ahead. ronwnce will become a lop p1iori1y early 111 I'N7. A spirilual experience ncxl spnng leads lo more fulfilling personal relationships. Your social life accelerates. Read\ out to people in a posilion to help a cause dose to your hcan Appeal to !heir 
finermstmcls 
CELEBRITIES BOKN ON THIS DA\':swimmer Dawn Fra1.er. dancer Mitzi Gaynor. baseball player Ken Harrelson. <:om poser Anton Bruckner. 
ARIES (March ~ 1-April I!J): Hal­tling restraints takes courage and per­sistence. You leam a valuahlc lesson despite feeling hemmed in. Ignore a power play al the office. Turning in a slellar performance will protecl your posilion. 
TAURUS (Apnl 20-May 20): Self-doubts disappear when ynu han· die a personal matter successfully. Associating with confident people boos!S }OUr own self-esteem. A play~ ful prank could backfire. 
GHIINI (May 21-June 20): A backlog of work awaits you. Enlisl­mg the cooperation of your co-work~ ers wtll speed progress. l'ul a disturb­ing dream aside. A blind date could lum out better than expected. 
CA!I;CER (June 21-Julv 22!: You wtll need palieiKC and rersi,~ tence to gel through this eventful day. Eliminale non-essenlial trips and tasks. then concentrate on one projcc1 a! a lime. 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Security and stability hold great appeal now. Friend> help you find your life's work. A long-cherished dream will 
• OF INTEREST 
esc van training session will be held tonight at 
5 p.m. at the Center for Social Concerns. 
•MENU 
.. 
North South 
Tortilla Soup Cream of Broccoli Soup Grilled Ham Steak Chicken Strips Grilled Salmon Fillet Baked Chicken with Herbs Cold Shrimp Fajita Macaroni and Cheese 
Saint Mary's 
Beef Enchiladas Chicken Diablo Lentil Stew with Mushrooms Savory Rice 
Have something to say? Use The Observer classifieds 
..­
JEANE DIXON 
ullll<" illl<" 11 '""<II<" \\lll1n~ It> lllilf-v cc11;un 'acnli""' 
Ch,;;l~~,<i,~:n: ~~: 1 ~1c ~~~~~;,~~~11 il<~~~;, 
lei a \l"lhad ''"P you: 11 may he a bb"ng 111 disgui'e lnllucl\llal pc·o· pic arc impr<'"cd hy your flcxihilny 
LIIII~A (Sepl. 2.1-0cl. 22): A hunch s1eer' you 111 !he righl d1rcc 11011 al worl. Higher-ups arc 111 a con lidmg nHxxl (luard thctr sc<:rets. llw long-range plans you make now will prove lucky 
SCOKI'IO !Ocl D-Nov. 211. L1nking ur \\llh new partners exrands your opuons. You arc ahk to complete a longtime project. G<xld organinllion and up-to-date infonna lion arc l'>SCnlml for success. 
SA<;rrTA RillS (Nov. 22-Dcc 21 ): Your cremivity is stronger than ever. A hold move prove' luck~ Choose your leammatcs witll care Those V>'ho have stood by you de sen l' a 'hare ol I he glory and profit,. 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. I!Jl Lon~ for bargatns at discounl stores and yard sales, bui examine the mer~ chandiSc carefully. Eye-orcning insights emerge m moments of soli 1udc. A close relative needs emotion· al or financial supporl. Help oul if you can. 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Fcb. IX) Concentrate on mecllng a deadline Fnends could offer pleasant distrac· lions. Stand your ground. Ymn instincls aboul a career maller arl' correct. Pull back and play a waiting game. Give more lhought to simpli fying your lifestyle. 
PISCES (Feb. 19 March 20): A legal malter will be sen led oul ol court. Do your homework and you will impress a parent with your finan c1al savvy. Strengthening your rap· pon wtth an influential person help' you 'hill<' m power l"ircles. 
"' ' 
• I 
--~-~--------------------~----------------------------------­
SPORTS 
page 16 Wednesday, September 4, 1996 
• MENS SoccER 
Irish dominate in home opener 
McNew opened the scoring at 
24:36 in the first half on an assist from fellow defender Peter Gansler. The senior tri­captain lobbed a beautiful 30 yard ball from the right side of the field to McNew, Qll the left, who one-timed the pass into the back of the net. Wildcat goalkeeper Matt Russ was injured on the play, but would return to start the second half. 
Just over three minutes later, at 27:40, the Irish struck again with the use of some excellent team play. McNew initiated the play, feeding a streaking Scott Wells on the left sideline. The senior darted toward the goal with the ball and exchanged passes with veteran midfielder Konstantin Koloskov before centering a crisp pass across the penalty box to fellow senior Tony Capasso. The right mid­fielder blasted a shot past back­up goalie Zach Adams and off the left post into the cage. 
The Wildcats registered their only shot on goal very late in the first half, but some good defensive hustle by sophomore stopper Matt Johnson created a tough angle on what otherwise would have been a certain goal. Sophomore goalkeeper Greg Velho made the diving stop and from that point the Irish began to cruise. 
Head coach Mike Berticelli commented on the value of this game for his young team. 
"This was a good opportunity to use a lot of players," said Berticelli, "especially the young guys." . 
Don't assume for one second, however, that the team sacri­fices anything by using its first and second year players. 
"Our freshman are all capa­ble of contributing," noted the coach. 
And contribute they did. 
Freshman forward Andrew Aris came off the bench to unselfishly assist on a goal scored by Koloskov early in the second half and later put the nail in the Wildcats' coffin with an unassisted goal of his own. Aris seemed to be all over the field late in the game and dis­played terrific ability to create opportunities for himself and others. 
Meanwhile, freshman Peter Bandera and sophomore Phil Murphy followed the example set in the first half by maintain­ing the defensive intensity in the midfield. Rarely did a Northwestern midfielder find himself unmarked in the Irish half of the field. 
These efforts did not escape the Berticelli's watchful eyes. 
"Bandera really helped off the bench," comp1ented Berticelli. I was also very happy with Phil Murphy in the midfield. He did some great things tonight." 
With a record of 2-0, the Irish seem to have accomplished everything that they set out to do in the first two games of the season. They have recorded a 
see SOCCER I page 14 
at Ohio State ~ Friday, Sept. 13 
at Ohio State ~ Friday, Sept. 13 

Soccer vs. Ill. Wesleyan • Van Laecke, Streiffer receive honors Wednesday, 4 p.m. 
see page 12 Volleyball at Hanover Sept 6, 6:45 p.m. 
,..=
.......... 
ND blanks Wildcats 
By BRIAN REINTHALER Spons Writer 
In their first game of the sea­son the men's soccer squad. came out flying and scored a goal early in the first half. However. they seemed to lose their intensity following the goal and gave up a few shots that could have possibly been prevented. But such was not the case in last night's home opener at Alumni Field. 
The Irish faced regional rival Northwestern and completely dominated the Wildcats from the opening whistle to the final horn en route to a 4-0 victory. The Blue and Gold are now 2-0 and preparing for Big East and national powerhouse St. John's who will invade Alumni Field at 7;30 p.m. on Saturday evening. 
Freshman defender Matt 

sThe Observer\Rob Finch 
Setter Jaime Lee and her teammates will have to step up their level of play in order for the Irish to challenge the second ranked Stanford Cardinal in tonigbts volleyball match at the JACC. 
Setters look to upset 
ByJOECAVATO head coach Debbie Brown, Sports Writer including 41 of their last 42. In their last three matches with 
Tonight at 7 p.m. all eyes of the 1992 and 1994 national the collegiate volleyball com­champions, the Irish have come munity will turn their attention up short so this will provide the to the JACC when the second Irish with their first real test of ranked Stanford Cardinal and the year. the sixth ranked I.rish clash for Juniors Lisa Sharpley and an early seasop. battle. Kristen Folkl lead the red and 
The Irish are poised for an white. Coming into their fresh-upset as they have compiled a 69-4 record at the Joyce under see V-BALL I page 14 
Kinder out 
By DAVE TREACY 
Assod;ue Spons Editpr 
. The Irish offense had a · wrench thrown into the works yesterday as senior tailback Randy Kinder, projected to start &galnst the Vanderbilt Commodores tomorrow night, 
has been sfdelined with a pulled right· quadriceps injury. 
Despite fighting .off the: nagging injury suf­

fered at Gulver Military Academy for two weeks, the running back finally suc­cumbed on the astroturf in Loftus on Sunday. 
"It's my right quadriceps that's been sore," Kinder ex­plained. "The way I see it. and the way (trainer) Jim Russ sees it, is that it is more pre­ventative than anything. I'd rather miss one game tha:n 
misssix.H · 
Kinder's injury brings into question the placement of sophomore Autry Denson at split end. Moved to free up space for Kinder and senior Robert Farmer, Denson still would have found time in the backfield agai'nst the Commodores. Due to the in­jury, Farmer will be moved into the starting role with Denson assisting at tailback. 
"Anytime you lose a player like Randy; it's going to hurt you:· evaluated sophomore fullback Jarilie Spencer. "But we have (fUYS who have got to step up who have the tough­ness and aggressiveness nec­essary." 
Kinder offered no insight on how his injury might affect the game plan, but holds confi· dence in his running mates. 
"I have no idea how this af­fects our offense," Kinder said. "But Robert {Farmer) has been there and he is complete­ly capable. Plus, Autry will play both (tailback and split 
see KINDER I pagel4 
The Observer/Rob Finch 
Sophomore midfielder Matt Johnson played strong defense, which allowed the Irish to shutout the Wildcats, 4-0. 
at Vanderbilt, ~ September 5, 7:30p.m. 
vs. Wisconsin Friday, 7:30 p.m. 
... 
r!'' 
~ 
vs. StJohn's Saturday, 7:30p.m. 
vs. Stanford ~ Tonight, 7 p.m. 
~ •Belles volleyball dominates 
see page 13
.....'= 
·~ 






