
Thursday, October 31, 1996 • Vol. XXX No. 43
• 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NO RE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
• 
Editor's note: This is the third in focusing on Saint Mary's and Notre Dame students studying in Ireland. Funding for Caroline Blum's trip to Ireland was provided by the Saint Mary's Board of Governance. 
By CAROLINE BLUM Saint Mary's Editor 
It's 8:30 a.m. on a Tuesday morning. Amanda Pflanz slams the button on her "cowbell" alarm and rolls out of bed. 
She could not afford to buy an electric alarm for her year-long stay in Ireland, because she had already purchased a new stereo and hairdryer to accommodate the Irish electric system. She winces as the bathroom, because she knows today will be a long day. 
"Tuesdays through Thursdays are explains. "I have class all day, with barely time to even eat. But then I am Monday, which is great. I basically only have class on those three days." 
She darts out of her flat to her first class, which is theology. They discuss the Old Testament and how the history and archaeology of the land affected the writ­ing of the Bible. 
After class, she meets up with two of her roommates, Bridget Murphy and Michelle Sip!. Together they walk to English class, stopping in the computer lab for any word from home on the way. 
"I still haven't got E-mail from my friends at school," Murphy says.. "I hate the time when they are on fall break because I don't hear a word from anyone." 
English class is on the "Old Campus" in a building that dates back to the 18th century. Genevieve Yep and Jamie Berzai, Notre Dame students on the program, come sit with the group for class. 
The professor speaks into a microphone, and calls to order the group of over 400 students. He is from England, and leads the class in a discussion of poetry. In the final minutes of the lecture, he puts a list of the 11 students who had the courage and confidence nec­essary to present their own poems on the overhead. 
Saint Mary's student Margaret Kensinger is the sec­ond reader. She performs two short poems, describing sounds and breezes of the ocean. The crowd is sur­prised that the last presenter is also an American, as Sip! recites a poem about her experiences with her roommates and Irish neighbors. The crowd giggles and applauds loudly for all the presenters when she is through. 

Pflanz's busy day continues in her Irish history class. The Irish professor speaks beforH the lecture hall about the great Irish famine. After class, Pflanz reviews what she has learned in a tutorial, or small group discussion. 
It is now noon and Pflanz is starving. She rushes to her social anthropology lecture, arriving a little late and sitting in the back to appear inconspicuous. Her professor is a Chicago native and often jokes about the American cultural norms in comparison with those of 
see STUDY I page 4 
• ELECTION '96 
The Observer/Katie Kroener 
Ellen Hume, a me_dia critic and former journalist, spoke on the med1a' coverage of the Presidential elections last night. 
Hume calls for positive press 
By SASKIA SIDENFADEN News Writer 
Last night's lecture by Ellen Hume marked the third part in a series of lectures address­ing the influence of media in society. Entitled "Media Coverage of the Presidential Elections," Hume's lecture focused on the "negativity biases" and sensationalism inher­ent in modern journalism suggesting a return to locally interactive journalism to initiate public reforms. 
Hume is a fomer journalist turned journal­ism critic. After graduating from Radcliffe College, she worked for the Detroit Free Press an.d Wall Street Journal as a Wall Street commentator. A journalistic upheaval in 1980 marked Hume's debut as a construc­tive journalism sceptic. 
According to Hume, the problem with mod­ern journalism in politics is "deeper than lib-
see PRESS I page 6 

Rusted Root performed to a sell-out crowd last night in Stepan Center. 

• STUDENT SENATE 

No quoruiD to vote on student rights issue 
By LIZ FORAN Editor-in-Chief 
The Student Senate would have passed an resolution stating the impropriety of the University's refusal to register a demonstration for National Coming Out Week, claiming it was the content of the event and not the technicalities which caused it to be denied. 
If enough members had been present for a quorum Wednesday evening, that is. 
After almost two hours of intense debate on the form and content of the resolution, including the technicalities of language, the Senate was ready to vote on the issue. It was then discovered that the body was one member short of a quorum of 14 members with voting privileges. 
Attempts were made to reach other members by phone to obtain an abstention vote, which would validate the vote, although the meeting should not have occurred without a quorum to begin with. 
Regardless, the meeting was the most important of the year, according to Judicial Council President Ryan Mcinerney. 
"This is the biggest issue of this year," he said after the meeting, expressing his disap­pointment that more voting members, including Student Body President Seth Miller were not in attendance. 
The proposed resolution dis-
see SENATE/ page 6 


Thursday, October 31, 1996
page 2 The Observer • INSIDE 
• INSIDE COLUMN 
Costumes 
prove male 

creativity 
So what if it is Halloween. I already know 
the men on this campus have got the whole 
plastic fang, face paint. 
and cross-dressing thing 
figured out. What I think 
is worthy of attention is 
the fact that you guys 
can be so innovative 
while shopping for panty­
hose and ransacking 
your friends' closets for 
dresses, but arc so piti­
fully stubborn and bor­
ing when it comes to 
your treatment of 
women. 

I know there is someone in your life -a 
"crush" or a "committed"-who is frustrat­
ed just knowing you. She waits for you to call 
her. to ask her out to dinner, to notice what 
she's wearing. For her, you fill the role of the 
clueless one who only calls when he has to, 
makes plans to meet in the dining hall, and 
only comments on your outfit when you don't 
match. 

For some reason this campus breeds negli­
gence of the female. Male misdirected time 
and energy depresses me. 

In light of this poorly allotted time and 
thought management, I'd like to usc 

llalloween as proof that you guys have it in 
you to be creative and bold. Women deserve 
better than your giving them. We deserve to 
be flattered, respected and noticed -not 
just when we're dressed up like fairies or 
prostitutes on Halloween, but on a regular 
basis. 

We have high expectations for you and, 
unfortunately, you, in your infinite igno­
rance, are messing up. 

You do get some credit for managing to 
pick up on the major things. You've discov­
ered that we like exotic flowers and Italian 
dinners. We like to know you took the time to 
put on cologne. We're looking for stability 
mixed with surprises. We like it when you 
use words like "beautiful." "passionate," and 
"sexy." Okay, that's a start, but there is so 
much more that you could know. 

The Notre Dame male populace would 
undoubtedly be surprised to know what 
we're really on the lookout for. Most of it 
could be easily satisfied with the teeniest bit 
of spontaneity. 

Beneath our carefully buttoned blouses, we 
have a hidden agenda that wouldn't fit in 
your Franklin planner. It's because we want 
the things that can't be ranked in a list. We 
want the "random." We want you to do 
things you would have never thought of 
doing until you met us. 
What I don't understand is this: On 

Halloween, you unabashedly squeeze your 
thick bodies into women's dresses and 
parade around shamelessly, but you claim 
you arc too shy to ask her out? Is it your fear 
of peer disdain? These friends who are so 
quick to mock the romantic -you actultlly 
let them encourage you to wear a wig and a 
garter that cut off your circulation on both 
ends? I just don't get it. 

This isn't to say I don't like Halloween. In 
fact, I have my fairy costume all ready for 
this evening. However, just because I'll be 
waving a wand and wearing a translucent 
gown doesn't mean I'm too much trouble to 
pay attention to. I'm probably only wishing 
for someone to dance with. 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 

•  TODAY'S STAFF  
News Matthew Loughran Michael Lewis Sports Joe Cavaw Viewpoint Ethan Hayward Accent Dan Cichalski  Production Maureen Hurley Mark DeBoy Lab Tech Dave McCaffrey Graphics Melissa Weber  

Th< Ohs<rv<r (USPS 599 2-4000) is puhlish<d Monday through Friday 
exccpr during exam and vacadon periods. The: Observer is a member of d1e~ A.'isociarcd Press. All reproduction rights arc reserved. 
• WORlD AT A GLANCE 
Four killed in corporate jet crash near Chicago 
WHEELING, Ill. 

A corporate jet crashed just after takeoff from a municipal airport Wednesday, narrowly missing an apartment complex. 
The two pilots, one flight attendant and lone passenger on board were killed. 
The passenger was identified as Arthur F. Quern, 54. chairman of the 
ILLINOIS 

Illinois Board of Higher Education. 
liND. 

The crew was not immediately iden­
0

tified. 
Springfield I


The Gulfstream IV jet went down in an empty field across the road from Palwaukee Municipal Airport, about 23 miles north of Chicago. No 
MO. 

one on the ground was hurt, although several cars in a parking lot were damaged. 
100 miles

"It was about a 1 00-foot circle ball of flame, just like you see in the 
ES 
100 km

movies," said witness Bob Kerns. "I 
could feel the heat through the win­
AP/Carl Fox
dows on my car." 
Kemp criticizes media bias 
MONTEREY. Calif. 

Jack Kemp says he doesn't hate the news media but in the waning days of the campaign. his stump speeches suggest that his feelings about reporters and pundits are in sync with running mate Bob Dole's. "Polls don't elect. People elect and that's what's going to elect Bob Dole," the vice presidential nominee said 


Wednesday during an economic speech to several hun­dred supporters at the elegant Monterey Plaza Hotel. Then for effect, the animated candidate added; ''I've got a great bumper sticker -'Annoy the media, Elect Bob Dole."' Dole, who trails President Clinton in most national and state polls, last week unleashed a blister­ing attack on the news media. He accused it of bias and of trying to "steal" the election for the incumbent. Kemp's criticisms have been less pointed and sus­tained, but he often slips a dig at the press into most of his campaign speeches. 
High winds rock Midwest 
DETROIT 

Wind gusting to 85 mph snapped power lines across the Midwest from Minnesota into Ohio early Wednesday, blacking out nearly 300,000 customers and driving tem­peratures down."It's a good time to be indoors," Kathy Golden said Wednesday in Detroit. Outside Detroit, wind knocked down a wall of a Home Depot store under con­struction Wednesday in suburban Harper Woods. In downtown Detroit, window washing equipment swinging in the wind smashed windows at the Renaissance Center office complex. The wind whistled across the region from Tuesday into Wednesday as air rushed into a strong low pressure area centered over the upper Great Lakes. Gusts reached as high as 85 mph during the night near Fort Wayne, Ind., and 80 mph in the Chicago area. In Minnesota, gusts hit 81 mph at Mankato. Paul and Jean Paulson and their two daughters were awak­ened early Wednesday at Elkhart Lake, Wis., as balls of lire shot from a snapping power line outside their home and a policeman shouted a warning over a loudspeaker. "We woke up a whole lot faster than we planned," Paulson said. "I don't know, I thought I heard ... 'Get out of the house."' The wind combined with cold air rushing around the western side of the storm to drop wind chills below zero. ' 
• SOUTH BEND WEATHER  •  NATIONAL WEATHER  
5 Day South Bend Forcast  
AccuWeather"' forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures  The AccuWeather"'forecast for noon, Thursdav, Oct. 31. Lines separate high temperature zones for the day.  

[___./'---,H1; L~:' 

Thursday c::J. 51 
Friday ; ~ 44 Saturday ~ 47 Sunday,.< ~ 55, 
i 

Mongay ~ 53 
\ _.,..,_, ..
t.,l"'\1"'"'-...j ,, 

Baltimore 57 36 Denver 46 19 New York 53 40
Q~~uuu (1-~ u 
Baton Rouge 83 65 Honolulu 90 72 Phoenix 72 50
',','' '''' : ....... ·=·.::=·.::=· -:..-:..-:.. 
Showers T~storms Rain Flurries Snow Ice Sunny Pt. Cloud' Cloudy 
Chicago 39 27 Indianapolis 41 30 Pinsburg~ 46 32 
Via Assoc1ated Press Graph/csNet 
Columbus 41 33 Los Angeles 72 50 St. Louis 4t 33 
32 29 33 
"T"""T" ............... 

COLD WARM STATIONARY 
Cl 1996 AccuWealher, Inc. 
H'"""i_ m &'S:I ITIJ 0 ~ 8 .0 u
40 

HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY 
37 

NATIONAL SUMMARY: Gusty winds will carry colder, dry air toward the Northeast today. Meanwhile, warm air will hold Us ground toward the Gulf Coast, where sunshine will send temperatures into the 80s. Dry weather will return to the West Coast as a storm moves eastward, touching off snow in Utah. A bit of rain and snow will streak across the central Plains. 
Atlanta 69 53 Dallas 58 49 Miami 86 74 
i / ,! 
KY. 

TWA fuel probe analysis proves futile 
SMITHTOWN, N.Y. 
An analysis of two fuel measuring devices from TWA Flight 800 shows no sign of an electrical problem that would have caused the plane's center fuel tank to explode, a federal spokeswoman said Wednesday. "Tests on the two fuel probes were unremarkable," said Shelly Hazle of the National Transportation Safety Board. There was no indication of a short circuit in the rods. she added. NTSB investigators had been studying the 6-foot long rods for more than a week to learn whether they might have sparked the July 17 midair explosion, killing all 230 peo­ple aboard. The metal on one of the rods had been peeled back in a fashion known as "petaling," which heightened the interest of investigators after divers lifted the rods from the ocean floor two weeks ago. An examination of the petaling showed the damage was consistent with a fuel-air explosion of the kind that happened in the center fuel tank. Hazle said. But an NTSB source, who spoke on condition of anonymity. said the finding did not boost the­ories that the plane might have been brought down by a bomb or missile. 
Salinas denies role in assassination 
MEXICO CITY 
In a dramatic appearance before legislative critics Wednesday, the chief adviser to vilified former President Carlos Salinas de Gortari promised to sue those who tried to tie him to an assassination. Jose Cordoba, por­trayed by many as the mysterious power behind the Salinas administration, claimed he had less influence than is commonly believed. For three hours, congress­men from the leftist opposition Democratic Revolution Party interrogated Cordoba about a central date in mod­ern Mexican politics: the March 23, 1994, assassination of Luis Donaldo Colosio, presidential candidate of the ruling Institutional Revolutionary Party. A factory work­er, Mario Aburto, was arrested at the scene of the shoot­ing in Tijuana and has been convicted of the murder. Cordoba said he had no reason to believe anyone else was involved. Prosecutors have vacillated on the ques­tion of a conspiracy. and polls show most Mexican believe powerful politicians had a part in the murder. Many think Salinas himself-with Cordoba's help ­had Colosio killed because the president thought he was becoming too independent. For more than a year, critics have demanded that Cordoba and Salinas -who is liv­ing in self-imposed exile, last seen in Ireland -testify before prosecutors and congress. 
Quern also was chairman and chief executive officer for Aon Risk Services, an insurance brokerage in Chicago, said Debra Smitley. spokes­woman for the education board. 
Gov. Jim Edgar said Quern "was a close personal friend and an extra­ordinary human being. His contribu­tions to the state were enormous." 
He had served as chief of staff for Gov. Jim Thompson for four years, and served on the White House staff from 1975 to 1977 as deputy assis• tant to the president for domestic affairs under President Ford. 
He also had served as an assistant to New York Gov. Nelson D. Rockefeller for more than five years. 
David Henderson, a spokesman for Gulfstream, said Gulfstream IV jets had been in service for 10 years and this was the first accident for the jet. There are currently 283 in ser­vice, he said. 
I L --­
Thursday, October 31, 1996 The Observer • CAMPUS NJEWS page 3 
Claddagh ring considered Trick or treat mark of Irish heritage 
Editor's note: An incomplete edition design that featured two hands holding of this article ran in yesterday's a heart with a crown on top. The Observer. The full text appears below. hands are said to signify friendship, The Observer regrets the error. the heart love, and the crown loyalty. 
The gold rings became quite com­By TIM SHERMAN monplace and were actually adopted Sports Editor as wedding rings in the Claddagh. To this day, when the ring is worn with GALWAY, Ireland the heart pointing in, the wearer is 
If a ruddy face, a surname beginning considered "unavailable." with "0'," "Me" or "Fitz," and a quick "When the heart faces in, that means wit are not enough evidence to indi­the person's heart is taken," King cate a person's heritage, look to the explained. "Of course, I wear mine hand. with the heart pointing out." 
If you see a finger wrapped by a The popularity of the uniquely Claddagh ring, you've found one more designed rings slowly moved outside sign that you are more than likely the small village, and by 1750, Thomas encountering someone of Irish Dillon, one of the early makers of the descent. rings, had set up a small shop in the 
Like the famous Aran fishermen growing town of Galway. sweaters, the roots of the pervasively Today, Thomas Dillon's Claddagh popular Claddagh rings can be traced Gold shop remains a popular spot in By BRIDGET O'CONNOR pus. The children will begin ber.
to a fishing community near Galway. downtown Galway City. Not only does News Writer collecting candy at 4:30 p.m. "The contest went overThe rings are now as widespread in it sell the popular rings, it is home to and the jack o'lanterns will great at Illinois, and can beIreland as is Guiness beer -that is, the Claddagh Ring Museum. 
Do not be alarmed if you be judged at 6:30p.m. Event even better here due to thethey are everywhere. Though the museum is only the size see a swarm of three-foot organizers will provide the strength of the dorm com­"I don't have mine on today because I of a storeroom, there is a wealth of tall ghosts and goblins and candy and pumpkins. The munity," Subbiah said. "Thewas working, but normally I do," said history about the rings. One display Power Rangers heading your contest is funded in part by contest is a great way toUniversity College Cork student Allison shows the making of the rings, com­way tonight on campus. the Hall Presidents' Council enjoy the Halloween spirit,King when asked about her bare fin­plete with wax molds and tools. 
No, these creatures are not and in part by the $30 par­get people on campus togers. "Nearly everybody here has one. But there is no opportunity for a guid­attempting to take over the ticipation fee that each dorm interact, and do somethingActually many probably know about ed tour -present day proprietor of school. They have been paid. fantastic for the kids." 
their origin-just not the details." Dillon's, Jonathan Margetts and family invited by the men of Despite the novelty of the According to freshman J.R. 
Here they are. are busy dealing with the steady Keenan Hall to participate in contest, it has received an Mellin, the director of theThe small community where it all stream of Claddagh seeking customers. 
the Great Pumpkin Contest incredible amount of sup­contest, anyone who wouldbegan was situated near Galway Bat "I think the ring grows daily in popu­'96 tonight. The creatures port. Over 250 students vol­like to get involved who has and was known as The Claddagh. It larity because of its unique design, are actually children from unteered to take part in the not yet signed up can still doopenly embraced and incorporated the peculiar history and sentimental the Boys and Girls Club of activity and organizers sold so by talking to their hall
design that the legendary Richard appeal," said Margetts. He and his 
South Bend and will be all of the T-shirts for the presidents or by showing up Joyce invented. shop have been featured, among other escorted by equally frighten­event at $3 each .. at Keenan Hall at 4:30 p.m. 
According to local lore, Joyce learned places, in the New York Times. Such ing student volunteers from The idea for the event "The contest should be ahis trade as a goldsmith in Algeria publicity is evidence of the world-wide each of the 13 participating came to Notre Dame from blast for everyone. Not justafter he was taken into captivity and popularity of the rings. 
dorms to trick-or-treat at the Delta Tau Delta fraterni­for the little kids, but for ussold as a slave to a Moorish goldsmith. "We get customers from all over the each dorm. ty at the University of slightly bigger ones as well,"After he gained his release at the world who order the rings and a lot of The contest portion of the Illinois, which started a simi­Mellin said. 
demand of William of England, a other pieces of jewelry incorporating 
evening is a competition lar event when Keenan About 100 children are
skilled Joyce returned to his native the Claddagh motif," Margetts said. "A between dormitories for the Hall's assistant rector expected to take part in theGalway. lot are from America. I take it they are best jack o'lantern on cam-Jeevan Subbiah was a mem-event.
His peers became fascinated with his quite popular over in the states." 

The College ofBusiness Administration presents 
Career Day 1996 
Friday, November 1: 1996 
9:00 am -4:00 pm Atrium of the College of Business Administration Complex-I st and 2nd Floors 

Choose what is rightJf-Or you! 
Over 40 companies will be represented in a speaking session or by hosting a table. We welcome all majors as well as undeclared sophomores and freshmen. Please pick up a brochure in the College of Business Administration Complex for 
a listing of companies, session times, and resume critiques. 
page 4 The Observer • IRISH ACROSS THE SEA Thursday, October 31, 1996 
When Murphy arrives home, her ished in time to get to the theater for roomates have finished dinner. Her Tully's debate. Tully is fifth to pre­
Study Peace 
seat is decorated like a throne, and sent, rebutting some of her oppo­
continued from page 1 
the Irish. After class, P!lanz rushes to the front of class to tell her professor that she is an Iowa native, one of the American states he mentioned during class. She then attends her English tutorial after some confusion about its location. 
"It's so difficult to figure out where and when your tutorials are," she said. "The professors post the time and location up on one of many department boards, and you have to check them all periodically to deter­mine when exactly they are. They're not like ordinary classes that meet every week." 
When Pflanz finally returns to her apartment, her roommate Mary Liz Tully is talking with two of their Irish friends who live upstairs. Eamon Gafney and Ger Murphy are helping Tully prepare for a big debate that evening. Tully will propose the motion that priests should be allowed to marry. The debate is sponsored by the Literary and Debating Society at the college, to which Tully belongs. 
l'flanz makes tea for herself and the visitors, as she plans out the evening. Tonight is Murphy's 21st birthday, and the llatmates want to make her a special dinner. Julie Davis is slicing the mushrooms for the birthday meal, when she hears Ger and Tully getting into a serious conversation about American politics. 
"It's weird," Davis says. "The Irish people know more about American politics than we do sometimes. They love to talk about current events. We met some guys in Galway a few weeks ago and ended up talking about the IHA and the U.S. election almost the whole time." 
Davis takes over the conversation with Ger for the next hour. discussing current issues and problems and later changing the subject to the latest gos­sip around the apartment complexes. 
If you see news happening, call The Observer at 631-5323 
ERASMUS BOOKS 
•Used 
books bought and sold 

• 
25 categories of Books 

•25,000 
Hardback and Paperback books in stock 

•Out-of-Print 
Search Service: $2.00 


.@.Washington Hall, 8r,~ 
1
perfomed by the ,,, National Shakespea?e Com~·my 


f.·~~.....~~.:··..t.;.-.·~ ..~ :,·. :.. ·'. ·-·$8 00 to· 'if·''-&udents 
..:.i~."C' w;.ii ..· . 

she is forced to wear a crown with a big "21" on the front. After dinner the students wash their dishes, wiping faster when they notice they will soon be late for their final class of the day, Irish culture. 
Peggy McCarthy, a Saint Mary's graduate and the Ireland program adviser, teaches Irish culture. 
McCarthy begins class with a heat­ed discussion about getting the students tickets to the Notre Dame game in Dublin. Students are excited to learn that they will receive tick­ets if they give McCarthy their money by the fol­lowing day. 
In culture class the students dis­cuss the Celtic heritage and cus­toms and values of the Irish people. 
~-~.· ..•.. '.· ''~.~$6;9.0 for st~d=~tr~···~. 
.. t fr.o.m 

-. . . ... ·"'·"'"~·---.. _,. ' .ll (_, ou... . . . 
i ( /;; . I \. , 
tic'kets still on sale at the 
LaFun Info Desk ... 
nent's comments, and detailing the proposition that priests should be allowed to marry. 
When the judges announce the win­ners, they complement Tully on her informational and convincing argu­ment. She is declared the runner-up in the debate, second only to an expe­
rienced debater. At the 
wine and cheese recep­tion, her professor'We are so lucky to explains she is extreme­ly talented for a first­
have this oppor­
time debater.
tunity to travel and "I've always been experience Ireland this interested in law," Tully said. "I thought that as 
year. We have met so 
a member of the debat­many great friends ing society here, I could earn some great experi­
over here, and have 
ence. My goal was to getlearned about our cul­involved in order to meet more Irish stu­
ture and heritage as 
dents."
well.' When the wine is empty. the roommates take Murphy out to "the 
Bridget Murphy Roost," a popular pub on 
The class is open 

to only students on the Saint Mary's program, and lasts for an hour every Tuesday evening. 
"This is the only time when we are all together." Pflanz says. "It's always great to have a chance to see how everyone is doing." 
Davis, Pflanz, Sipl, and friend Ellen O'Tool grab Murphy and bring her to the Student Union after class. The "SU" as they call it; has a bar in the left wing where students can order a Guiness and relax after or between classes. 
"We enjoy it because it is a place to relax and hang out," O'Tool said. "It's right on campus, and students can play pool or just sit back and relax." 
The end of the pint is quickly fin-the edge of town. It is 
packed as usual and the students must wait in line longer than usual for a pint of Guiness. 
Davis later spots their Irish neigh­bors at the bar, and they spend the rest of the evening talking and telling jokes with them. At 11:00 p.m. the pub is closed and the group walks home for tea and birthday cake before calling it a night around 2:00 a.m. 
They discuss their weekend plans while they eat, including a trip to the Pearl jam concert outside Cork on Thursday night, and a stop at the Cork Jazz Festival for the weekend. 
"We are so lucky to have this oppor­tunity to travel and experience Ireland this year," Murphy said. "We have met so many great friends over here, and have learned about our cul­ture and heritage as well." 
Happy 21st Halloween Chris Spoonhower% 
Have a 
Spooktacular Day. 
Love~ ~, Z'eut, fJeU, 

ad Pa«t 

continued from page 1 
movement away often allows one to see more clearly," Whelan said, speaking on why Notre Dame, which he considered removed from the problem, hosts such a conference. 
Bartlett detailed the history of the con­flict from the perspectives of all four par­ties involved -the Ulster Protestants, Ulster Catholics, Irish (South) Catholics. and British. 
"The Irish have been a victim of partial justice from the British," Bartlett said. 
Although the conflict is confined to Ireland, it has been the British who have had a hand in everything. To this day, their impact can be felt, according to Bartlett. 
"The issue of identity in Northern Ireland is crucial," Bartlett said. Currently, he views that identity as a bit muddled. 
"There is a slogan, Ulster is British," said Bartlett, paraphrasing Rudyard Kipling's novel "Kim." 
"But what is British?" he said. "British is inseparable with empire, and with no empire now, British is meaningless." Thus, according to Bartlett, Ulster's grip on its identity is tenuous. This means that the six counties of the north must search for a new identity. 
"Where do we go from here [for a solu­tion]?" Bartlett said. "I say, [we go] not to London and not to Dublin. There is bitter distrust of both. The best is for both to withdraw -politically, economically and militarily. [The residents of Ulster] must establish an identity as Northern Irish, distinctive from Irish and British. They need security in themselves." 
It is a security that the speakers believe is seldom held in Ireland's history. "The Irish are people of movement and America was one place many moved to," Whelan said. "So it is appropriate that this series is sponsored by the University of Notre Dame, as it is the crown jewel of the Irish." 
Halloween Disco Bash!! 
Threads ($2.oo All Else) 


Happy soth Birthday 
Linda Clark 


Best Wishes from all your .friends at the Building Service Department 
1)\\1:'3 
232-2293 123 W Washington 

Thursday, October 31, 1996 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS page 5 
Freshmen elect officers in class council meeting 
Observer Staff Report 
In their third Class Council meeting last night, the Freshman hall representatives elected their officers for the 1996-97 school year. 
In a close runoff vote. the class selected Marcus Barlow from O'Neill Hall as its presi­dent. Golf quad also claimed the Vice President, as Keough Hall's Micah Muphy proved vic­torious. 
The only female officer was Seigfried's Andrea Sclak, who is the class secretary. The trea­surer, James Jesse, from Alumni Hall lost in an earlier 
Chinese -American Restaurant and Cocktail Lounge 
Lunches starting at .... $4.25 Dinners starting at .... $5.95 Banquet rooms available up to 200 
GREAT \VALL 
Bar and Restaurant open 7 days a week 130 Dixie Way N., South Bend (next to Randall's Inn) 
Happy 19th Birthday! 
Dan 
Love Always, 

1~ruL .~6rom,. ,3?;;~, .o/,C,,":"?· 
tT.rlr/o/16,~'"'? 
STUDENT ART EXHIBIT 
Participants must be a ND/SMC student. Only flat works will be accepted (drawings, design, photography, painting) with a ma.ximum size of 3'x3'. 
The exhibit will be shown in the Sorin Room at the LaFortune Student Center November 4-8. 
Purchase prizes, starling 
at $200, will be awarded. 
Applications available in the Student Activities Office, 315 LaFortune. DEADLINE FOR APPLICATIONS IS FRIDAY, NOV. 1. 
Special Thanks to: Alumni Association, Snite Museum, and the Student Activities for their donations to the purchase prize awards. 

presidential bid, but rebounded to win the moneyman's posi­tion. 
Every position had an indi­vidual election, and every vote went to a runoff decision. President Barlow urged the council to vote for him, because he believed willingness to coop­erate was the most important attribute of a good president. 
Secretary Selak also ran for two positions, losing the Vice Presidential race in a runoff but later winning on the last vote of the night. 
Members of the sophomore class council organized and oversaw the proceedings. 
Photos courtesy of Kim West 
Habitat For Humanity built its latest house in the South Bend community over fall break. 
HFH: can1pus, community effort 
By RACHEL RICHMOND 
News Writer 
During fall break, while most students were home with friends and family, 15 students from Habitat for Humanity (HH[) were working in the South Bend community. 
HFH is an international orga­nization dedicated to building decent housing for needy peo­ple. The Notre Dame student chapter, along with alumni, fae­ulty, graduate students, and St. Joseph County community mem­bers built their third house since the chapter began working inde­pendently in 1994. 
From Oct. 21 through Oct. 24, the group worked from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. on Bissell Avenue in the northeast section of South Bend. With the foundation already laid, they completed the fin;t floor decking, the framing, and most of the exterior, including the siding. The house co!>t $30,000 to build and will be dedicated in April. 
Kim West, co-president of the chapter. commented on the "unique experience," saying that 


lle.tlln Peace 
KURTCOBAIN RIVER PHOENIX JOHN BELUSHI KEITH }lOON JIMI HENDRIX ELVIS PRESLEY JANIS JOPLIN JONATHAN :MELVOIN LENNY BRUCE SID VICIOUS SHANNON HOON LEN BIAS BILLY MARTIN MARILYN }10NROE 

WHO WILL BE THE NEXT STAR LOST TO ALCOHOL OR OTHER DRUGS?? WHAT WASTED POTENTIAL. ... DoN'T ADD YOUR NAME TO THE LIST! 
Sponsored :6y the Office of Alcohol and Drug Education 
the most significant part of the The overall goal of HFH is to building was that it included the empower the individual, mem­entire community of South Bend bers said, which is accomplished and Notre Dame. The alumni through fund-raising, construc­came from across the country to tion, and labor. contribute and were organized The efforts have paid off. The by Notre Dame Alumni Notre Dame Chapter of Habitat Coordinator Richard Dornbos. for Humanity was the latest 
Habitat for Humanity chooses recipient of the Habitat for the families who will live in the Humanity International Habitat built houses. Once a family is Founders Award for Student selected, it must complete 500 Chapters. The chapter was cho­hours of work for HFH projects. sen out of all student groups in The Notre Dame chapter's abili­the country. ty to provide service, as well as Anyone interested in joining the whole organization, depends HFH at Notre Dame should con­on the donations it receives. tact Jill Reinauer at 634-0718. 

page 6 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, October 31, 1996 
true sponsor. The event did take place,
Senate 

however, without interference 
from the administration. 
continued from page 1 

"Let me make clear that my agreed with the actions taken inability to approve the pro­by Bill Kirk, assistant vice­posed event does not arise president for Residence Life, in from any difficult inherent in his Oct. 10 refusal to register a the proposed function itself," 
picnic in recognition and sup­Kirk said in a letter explaining port of National Coming Out the denial. "It was clear to this Week, a week of celebration of office, however, ... that sexual identity. GLND/SMC is the sponsor of 
"Be it resolved that the this function." Student Senate Senate deplores this members attempt to reg­debated the ulate the free 'This is the biggest issue of free 
speech of speech and
issue of this

members of some mem­
the University year.' bers' percep­community, tions of incon­such as the sistencies on Ryan Mcinerney the part of
C o II e g e Democrats of Kirk between Notre Dame, a recognized stu­his actions and his words. dent organization, based on its Others claimed that even content and purpose," the res­members of unrecognized 
olution read. groups such as GLND/SMC are 
"Be it further resolved," it still members of the communi­continued, "that the Student ty, and therefore should not be Senate calls for an end to the denied the right to a peaceful 
University administration's demonstration as stated in du efforts to censor the free Lac. 
speech of any member of the "Whereas this language does University community, not not grant the authority to the excluding gay, lesbian, and or Office of Residence Life to bi-sexual students and their refuse approval of a demon­supporters." stration by a recognized stu­
Sean Gallavan, co-chair of dent organization," the resolu­GLND/SMC had attempted to tion read. register a picnic for the event, Although the issue passed stating he was doing so as a easily with the eight to five private student. llis request unofficial vote, Megan Murray, was submitted on GLND/SMC student body vice-president, 
letterhead, and was denied by refused to speculate on Kirk, who claimed it was actu­whether the resolution would ally being sponsored by the officially pass in an emergency unrecognized group. meeting called for Monday at 4 
The College Democrats then p.m. A quorum of Senate vot­attempted to register the ers should be present then, event, which was also denied she said, but members not pre­by Kirk, who claimed that the sent at Wednesday's meeting Democrats proposal was really could vote differently, and oth­a front and GLND/SMC was the ers could change their minds. 
choosing news sources. 
As a result of such negative bias and sensa­
Press 
continued from page 1 
erals versus conservatives." The press is becoming "better and better at popularizing scandals" and what Hume calls a "negativity bias." 
Media has become a "political rollercoaster," said Hume. Evidencing Perot's presidental campaign in 1992, Hume said that "the under­dogs always get light coverage." It wasn't until later in the year, when Perot was becoming a political threat, that he became "caught up in the cyclone" of journalistic muckraking. 
"The liberal Los Angeles Times brought a sex scandal on Clinton and more recently uncov­ered the Indonesia scandal," said Hume. According to 1-Iume, this negativity bias can make or break a political candidate. 
"The media is becoming more and more neg­ative in its coverage on upcoming presidents; it got worse from Reagan to Bush, worse from Bush to Clinton, and will get even worse in its coverage of Dole if he is elected," Hume said. 
Another problem with the liberal media is its power to interpret, Hume said. Evidencing sev­eral polls, Hume proved that journalists have the power to skew questionnaires and manipu­late percentages. She emphasized caution by urging citizens to be "critical consumers" when tionalism, Hume said that the media is becom­ing more and more "out-of-touch with citi­zens ... and the goodness in society." A recent poll produce by Hume showed that 71 percent of those surveyed said that "journalists got in the way of our lives." As journalism is becom­ing less involved with citizens, it is assuming a more negative role, she said. "I can't even watch the news with my little girl anymore. It's too gory ... too violent... It's disturbing," she said. 

Hume is attempting to address some of these problems from her position on the staff of the Public Broadcasting System (PBS) by encourag­ing citizens to become more involved in the media in learning about politics. She suggests a return to "old-fashioned fact-based journalism" to attack problems on a local level. 
With the new PBS program "Citizens '96," Hume hopes to find out what voters think by interviewing representative citizens. She intro­duced a policy of free air time for presidential candidates to insure equal coverage within time constraints. 
Aside from such innovations in progress on PBS, Hume stressed that journalism can take on a more positive role in the local community. By publicizing political views, the local media can encourage citizens to become more involved in their own communities. 
NO ranks third in campus cuisine 
Associated Press 
DURHAM, N.C. Ditch the mystery meat and pass the hummus. 
With its fresh-cooked pasta, stir-fry veggies and ground chickpea paste, Duke University ranked No. 1 in the nation for healthful campus food. 
The ranking, developed by the Physicians Committee for Responsible Medicine in Washington, aims to inspire healthier eating by young peo­ple, said Dr. Andrew Nicholson, director of preven­tive medicine. 

"The power of food is incredible," Nicholson said. "You start feeding kids hot dogs and hamburgers and the fat starts to accumulate. It accumulates very slowly." 
Duke sells 50 pounds of hummus a day and is soon marketing its own low-fat bagels. Coming soon -a "Chicken Caesar Rollwich:" strips of grilled chicken and Caesar salad rolled in pita bread. 
The University of Pennsylvania, where students can whip up their own stir-fry at a wok station offering good­ies such as tofu and brown 
rice, came in second. Notre Dame, which offers self-ser­vice food bars with low-fat and vegetarian choices, ranked third. Columbia and Brown rounded out the top five. 
The worst-ranked schools were the three service acade­mies: West Point, where "high-fat, high-cholesterol entrees like fried chicken ten­ders, ham steak or hot dogs" are offered, ranked dead last. 
The committee solicited sample menus from 38 schools across the country. Five schools refused to share their trade secrets. 
Ready to Take the Plunge? 
Interested in social problems such as homelessness and the plight of homeless persons in your hometown or a city near your hometown? Interested in taking approximately three days out of your Christmas break to learn about these problems and receiving theology credit while doing so? Then attend the: 
Urban Plunge Informational Meeting 
When: Thursday, October 31 7:30-9:00 p.m. Where: Coffee House of the CSC 
• URBAN PLUNGE • URBAN PLUNGE • URBAN PLUNGE • 
• URBAN PLUNGE • URBAN PLUNGE • URBAN PLUNGE • 
• URBAN PLUNGE • URBAN PLUNGE • URBAN PLUNGE • 
• URBAN PLUNGE • URBAN PLUNGE • URBAN PLUNGE • 
• URBAN PLUNGE • URBAN PLUNGE • URBAN PLUNGE • 
• URBAN PLUNGE • URBAN PLUNGE • URBAN PLUNGE • 
• URBAN PLUNGE • URBAN PLUNGE • URBAN PLUNGE • 
Thursday, October 31, 1996 The Observer • INTERNATIONAl. NEWS page 7 
• RWANDA 
Tension mounts between Rwandans, Zairian troops 
By CHRIS TOMLINSON 
Associated Press Writer 
CYANGUGU, Rwanda 

Zairian troops were digging in on a hill outside of a provin­cial capital today after a Rwandan military commando group reportedly crossed into Zaire and drove them from the border city. 
Rwandan Lt. Col. Firman Kagame told The Associated Press that the commandos passed through Bukavu on Tuesday night in pursuit of Zairian troops who have been firing on Cyangugu across the Ruzizi River in Rwanda. 
No other details were avail­able and it was not possible to confirm the report indepen­dently. 

But from a vantage point on 
·the Rwandan side of the bor­der, Zairian troops could be seen taking up defensive posi­tions about three miles outside Bukavu, on the south end of Lake Kivu. 
The battle for Bukavu claimed the life of eastern Zaire's Roman Catholic arch­bishop. The Rev. Christophe Munzihirwa Mwene Ngabo, a 70-year-old ethnic Tutsi, was slain Tuesday "during a mili­tary attack on the city," a Vatican spokesman said on condition of anonymity. Details of the death were unclear. 

Munzihirwa was the second. 
prelate in the region slain in 
the past two months. 
Archbishop Joachim Ruhuna of 
Burundi was killed Sept. 9. 
Tutsf rebels positioned in Bukavu fired mortars at the Zairian troops, but the soldiers .appear~d not to be firing back concentrating instead on dig· ging in positions while scurry· 
ing from shell fire. 
The United Nations today 
appointed Canada's ambas­
sador to Washington as an 
envoy to deal with the crisis in 
eastern Zaire, Canadian 
Foreign Affairs Minister Lloyd 
Axworthy said today. Raymond 
Chretien, who previously served 
as ambassador to Zaire, 
Rwanda and Burundi, is 
expected to leave for Africa 
next week. 
In Frankfurt, Germany, a U.S. 
Army spokesman confirmed 
today that Gen. James L. 
Jamerson, deputy commander 
of the U.S. European Command, 
would travel to Zaire next week 
"to get an assessment or brief­
ing on the situation." 
French President Jacques 
Chirac urged the United 
Nations and the Organization of 
African States to organize a 
conference on the growing ten­
sions between Zaire and 
Rwanda and the "unbearable 
suffering it is causing." 
The fighting, rooted in ethnic 
hatred and power struggles, 
stems from Zaire's attempt to 
expel Tutsis whose ancestors 
immigrated to eastern Zaire at 
least 200 years ago. 
The Tutsis have taken up 
arms against Zairian troops. 
And while Rwanda has insisted 
it is not at war with Zaire, its 
Tutsi-dominated army has 
exchanged fire with Zairian 
troops. 
The battles have displaced 


You can be a part of an important clinical research study. 
Do you have Asthma? 
You may be eligible to participate in a medical research study which will provide: 
FREE CLINIC VISITS/ PHYSICAL EXAMS FREE STUDY MEDICATION FREE LABORATORY TESTS/ LUNG FUNCTION TESTS & MODEST FINA.NCIAL COMPENSATION (Up to $4oo.00) 
To be eligible to participate, you must be between the ages of 12 and 7 0 years old have a diagnosis of asthma. 
Source: U.N. High Commissioner for Refugees 

hundreds of thousands of refugees from their camps and turned a stretch of eastern Zaire in the heart of Africa into a vast humanitarian disaster zone. 
After a day of deadly shelling, Cyangugu was quiet today, with only sporadic machine-gun fire heard, apparently from inside Zaire. But Rwanda's vice presi­dent warned of escalating vio­lence. 
"It has stopped, but this might not be the end," Paul Kagame -no relation to the Rwandan army commander ­said in the capital, Kigali. "The shelling in Cyangugu will have its consequences. If I am slapped in the face, I will hit back." 
The World Food Program today reported mortar attacks on a Zairian military post near Goma, about 100 miles to the north. The post is near several large refugee camps for Rwandan Hutus. 
On Tuesday, Zairians shelled houses and farms as far as three miles inside Rwanda, killing one civilian and wound­ing two. A barracks and a Rwandan mortar position also were hit, wounding eight sol­diers. 
The Rwandan army unleashed at least 100 mortar rounds on Zairian positions. No casualty reports were available from the Zairian side; all for­eign aid workers and foreign reporters have left the area. 
Appearing LIVE at the 
lML&JD)ll~(Q)N (Q)1f~lrJEJE IffiAJE 
402 EAST MADISON SOUTH BEND, IN (219) 288-3776 
Thursday, October 31, Jab Kings Friday, November 1, Gloria Rogers Saturday, November 2, Dog Talk 
hours: Mon-Sat 3:00p.m.-3:00a.m. 
NATIONAL & REGIONAL ACTS HALF PRICE COVER WITH STUDENT ID 
SERVING EXCELLENT FOOD tilll a.m. Thurs., Fri., Sat. 
WEDNESDAYS: open mic jam THURSDAYS: reggae FRIDAYS: blues SATURDAYS: classic rock­alternative -retro national and regional acts 
page 8 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT Thursday, October 31, 1996 
Campus Ministry ... 
Considerations... 

Power Lunches..... . 
The 1996-97 academic year is well on its way. During your well deserved October Break, you probably had a chance to take a deep breath and to reflect back on the last eight weeks. A common com­plaint for most students is that the time goes by too quickly; there just aren't enough hours in a week to accomplish everything you want to do. Maybe you intended to read or study more. Perhaps you had hoped to meet someone new or to get involved in something nurturing and uplifting. Maybe you just wanted to break out of particular ruts regard­ing the general pattern of your daily routine. 
In this age of holistic health and medicine we are told to take a look at the whole of our personhood and take stock of not only our physical health, but also our spiritual, physical, emotional, and social-sexual growth as well. When one or more of these is out ofwhack, it seems that the general health and well-being of the whole person is affected. 
At Campus Ministry we offer programs and opportunities through which students can learn and be enriched in all aspects of their spiritual and relational development. We would like to remind you of one that might introduce a little balance into your daily routine-Power Lunches. If you can answer "Yes" to any of the following questions, then maybe Power Lunches is for you: 
•
Would you welcome a break ftom the hectic pace ofyour classroom work and study? 

•
Would you enjoy the opportunity to make some new friendships while you pray and reflect on the Scriptures in a casual, relaxed atmosphere over lunch? 


•Wouldyou look forward to the opportunity to discuss and ask questions regarding matters offaith, the church, and contemporary moral issues? 
Power Lunches meets every Thursday in the upper dining room of the South Dining Hall from 12:30-1:30 P.M. It's an opportunity to partici­pate in some scripture study and reflection, hear a brief presentation on a topic concerning faith and the church, and engage in questions and discussion with the other participants. You don't need any course pre­requisites, or special background, or even to be Catholic to attend. In fact, if you find you've forgotten much of what you learned in your reli­gion or CCD classes, Power Lunches is for you! 
Why Thursday? 

Because the lunch period is longer and hopefully you will be more 
relaxed! 
Why lunch? 

Because we don't want you to have to choose between this opportunity and all the other things going on at night! 
Why come? Because you'll meet some great new friends while learning more about what it means to be a Catholic! 
We would like to invite you to try it out and discover what Power Lunches is all about. Come once or come every week. You may find that the minor adjustment in your current lunch routine and the little effort that it takes to climb the stairs to the upper dining hall on Thursdays become part ofa peaceful pause in an otherwise hectic week. 
Kate Barrett, John Dillon, Sylvia Dillon, and Darrell Paulsen 
· Campus Ministry Events Thursday, October 31 -Thursday, November 7 
Power Lunch: Communion ofSaints and Angels Thursday, October 31, !2:45pm-1:45pm, Faculty Dining Room 
Solemnity ofAll Saints-Basilica of the Sacred Heart Vigil Mass-Thursday, October 31, 5:15pm Holyday Mass-Friday, November 1, 11 :30am Solemn Mass-Friday, November 1, 5:15pm All Souls Day Mass-Saturday, November 2, 11 :30am, Sacred Heart Parish Crypt 
Evening for Hispanic Freshmen Saturday, November 2, 4:45pm, Center for Social Concerns ReJoice! (Black Catholic Mass) -ALL are welcome! Sunday, November 3, 4:00pm, Fisher Hall Chapel Vespers-Women's Choir Sunday, November 3, 7:15pm, Basilica Organ Recital-Prof. David Dahl. Pacific Lutheran University. Tacoma, Washington Sunday, November 3, 8:00pm, Basilica Mass for the Investiture of Endowed Chair Professors Tuesday, November 5, 4:00pm, Basilica KAIROS (4th day}: Death and Dying John Dunne, CSSC Wednesday, November 6, 7:30pm, Chapel ofthe Holy Cross (Stanford-Keenan Chapel) Power Lunch: Sacramentals Thursday, November 7, !2:45pm-1:45pm, Faculty Dining Room 
THIRTY-FIRST SUNDAY IN ORDINARY TIME 
WEEKEND PRESIDERS AT SACRED HEART BASILICA 
Saturday  November 2  5:00pm  Rev. David Guffey, C.S.C.  
Sunday  November 3  IO:OOam  Rev. John Pearson, C.S.C.  
I 1:45am  Rev. Thomas Gaughan, C.S.C.  

Scripture Readings For This Coming Sunday 
1st Reading  Malachi 1:14,2:2, 8,10  
2nd Reading  1 Thessalonians 2:7,9, 13  
Gospel  Matthew 23:1,12  

-------------~--------­
Thursday, October 31, 1996 The Observer • NATIONAL NEWS page 9 
Coverage impacts voter turnout 
By AMANDA COVARRUBIAS 
Associated Press Writer 
SAN DIEGO 

An early TV call of the presi­dential race could prompt Bernie Tanner to stay home Tuesday night and skip voting entirely, a thought that dismays Republicans worried about close Senate and House races throughout the West. 
"If they told me the (presiden­tial) election had been won, I wouldn't go out after 6 o'clock to vote," said Tanner, 77, of San Diego, who did not disclose her political preferences in an inter­view. 
"Why should I if my vote doesn't count?" 
It's not only Tanner, of course, but the fact that there are literal­ly millions more like her who might skip their Election Day right if it's the end of the day and the television networks have made it abundantly clear that the presidential race has been settled without them. 
"I call it voter turnout suppres­sion," California GOP chairman John Herrington said Wednesday. "This directly impacts turnout in a very big way.... It's hard to imagine a worse example of public policy or public responsibility." 

The stakes are huge. California alone has 52 congressional races, Oregon five more and Washington nine. Perhaps two dozen figure to be competitive on election night, potentially decid­ed by a few thousand votes or less. Oregon has a close Senate contest on the ballot, as well. 
Republicans and Democrats alike remember all too well the example of 1980, when then­president Jimmy Carter conced­ed defeat to Ronald Reagan with the polls still open out West. It's an article of faith among Democrats that Carter's com­ments caused turnout to plunge and cost the party seats in Congress. 
This year, polls close nation­wide at varying times -from 6 
p.m. EST to midnight EST. In California, the polls close at 11 
Dole: Economy under Clinton weak. 
ByTOMRAUM 
Associated Press Writer 
CLARKSVILLE, Tenn. 
Promising to win one for "Mr. Lincoln," Bob Dole began his final push for an electoral break­through Wednesday by suggesting President Clinton's re-election would 
,..-----.., plunge the nation into a reces­sion. 
"The Clinton recovery ended today," Dole said at a campus rally here as he stumped for votes in the South. The region is generally a GOP presidential stronghold, but Dole is still struggling to bolster his stand-Dole ing there. 
Seizing on a new government report showing that the economy slowed in the July-September quarter, the Republican challenger asserted that the U.S. economy "is barely afloat" under Clinton's stewardship. 
"It doesn't take a team of economists to tell you what happens when you mix slow growth with increased taxes: That's a recipe for economic col­lapse," Dole said. "If this is a recovery, I can hard­ly wait for the recession." 
Dole warned of a "Clinton recession" in the advance text of his remarks, but he did not use that phrase in his speech. 
He cited a string of recent economic reports, cul­minating with Wednesday's CommerGe Department finding that growth had slowed to 2.2 percent in the July-September quarter, down from a sizzling 4.7 percent the previous quarter. 
"Today, I'm afraid the truth about the Clinton 
, economy is getting easier to see," Dole told a field­
. house rally at Austin Peay State University. "This is a real economic slowdown." It was a reach for Dole, whose suggestions of a fast-deteriorating economy under Clinton have been undercut by most economic statistics and challenged by some mainstream economists. 

p.m. EST. 
Republican National Committee Chairman Haley Barbour says declaring a winner in the presidential race before all the polls close probably most hurts turnout for the losing party. Once the contest for the White House is finished, "the networks are telling people 'Now there's no reason to go." 

Economists: Slow GOP growth curbs inflation 

OwN A PIECE OF NoTRE DAME 

STADIUM 
$19.95 
''THE DOMER'' 
Now, you can own your very own piece of Notre Dame Stadium. This exclusively manufactured piece for students features an authentic piece of brick from the Stadium and a plate citing its origin mounted on a solid walnut base. A certificate of authenticity is affixed to the bottom. 
Pick up your "Domer" at: 
LaFortune Center Information Desk 9 a.m. -8 p.m. Mon. -Fri. 12 noon-8 p.m. Sat. & Sun. 
Please be sure to bring your I.D. card! (Limit one piece/person) 
Fed analysis cites economic slowdown 
By MARTIN CRUTSINGER Associated Press Writer 
WASHINGTON 
The U.S. economy slowed dramatically during the sum­mer, advancing at less than half last spring's torrid pace as exhausted consumers took a breather. 
The Commerce Department reported Wednesday that the gross domestic product, the total output of goods and ser­vices, rose at an annual rate of just 2.2 percent from July through September, compared to a 4. 7 percent second-quar­ter increase. 
The campaign of Republican presidential candidate Bob Dole seized on the GOP figure as evidence the economy under President Clinton is not doing well. 
But private economists wel­comed the slowdown. They said it would help keep infla­tion in check and further post­pone interest rate hikes by the Federal Reserve. 
A Fed report released Wednesday on the state of the economy seemed to support that view. In its latest national survey of business conditions, the Fed said the economy con­tinues to expand, but "the pace of growth reportedly has slowed somewhat." 
For its part, the Clinton administration insisted that the sharp slowdown in growth carries no threat of possible recession but is rather a mod­eration that would further pro­long what is already the third­longest recovery since World War II. 
Laura D'Andrea Tyson, head of the president's National Economic Council, called the current expansion a "real 
Gross domestic product 
The GDP measures all the 
goods and services produced by workers and capital located in the United States, regardless of ownership. 
Percent change from previous quarter 


Source: U.S. Dept. of Commerce AP 
achievement of this adminis­tration" by keeping interest rates low through its deficit­reduction efforts. 
But Dole campaign spokesman Nelson Warfield said, "The myth of the Clinton recovery has long been known to anxious wage-earners, and now the cold economic statis­tics Bill Clinton is so fond of are falling, too." 
Financial markets were whipsawed between happiness that the GOP report showed moderated growth and worries over another report showing that new homes were sold at a robust annual rate of 816,000 units, down just 0.5 percent from August, which had been the highest sales rate in a decade. 
In early afternoon trading, the Dow Jones industrial aver­age was down 1 point. 
The Fed survey, done in preparation for the next rate setting meeting on Nov. 13, noted "few indications of sig­nificant price pressures.' 
One 16" Pizza for $14.00 
4toppings per pizza 
Every Thursday All-You-Can-Eat Pizza &Pasta for $5· • 6:00 p.m.. 8:30 p.m. • 
-..~-----~-----­
VIEWPOINT 
page 10 

THE OBSERVER 
NoTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY'S OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1996-97 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Elizabeth Foran Managing Editors Business Manager Patricia Urson Marc Casey Tom Roland 
News Editor ........................ Brad Prendergast Advertising Manager. ........................... EIIen Ryan Viewpoint Editor ................... Erhan Haywanl Ad Design Manager ...............................jed Peters Sports Editor ..................... Timothy Sherman Production Manager.......................Tara Grieshop Accent Editor ........................... joey Crawford Systems Manager ....................... Michael Brouillet 
Saint Mary's Editor ................. Caroline Ilium Con<rollcr .......................................... Tyler Weber Photo Editor .......................... Michael Ruma 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of No<re 
Dame duLac and Sainr Mary's College. It does nor necessarily reflect the policies of the administra­cion of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned edi­
torials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Columns presc:m the views of the amhors, and not necessarily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the No<re Dame/Saint Mary's com­
munity and £O all readcrs. Thc frcc.cxpression of varying opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 
Editor-in-Chief Managing Editor/Viewpoint Sports News/Pho<o Accent/Saint Mary's Day Editor/Production Gcnerallnformation 

631-4542  Business Office  631-5313  
631-4541  Advertising  631-6900/8840  
631-4543  Systems/Marketing Dept.  631-8839  
631-5323  Office Manager  631-7471  
631-4540  Fax  631-6927  
631-5303  Viewpoint  E-Mail  Viewpoint. I @nd.edu  
631-7471  Ad E-Mail  observer@darwin.cc.nd.edu  

• KEVORKIAN KORNER 

Paranormal phenomena, afterlife connected 
The persistence of consciousness into the grave -the thought is troubling, no? As a child this columnist often shud­dered with dread at the thought of being held, bodiless and immobile, in the earth, or worse, in some celestial cell. Often I dreamed of being confined , like the astronaut in "2001," to a sterile 
Josh Ozersky 
Louis XIV hotel room, surrounded by quivering and unearthly voices, and fac­ing an eternity of formal solo meals. As a Catholic, I have found a way to avoid this fate and instead go to Heaven if I play my cards right -although Heaven is of course impossible to imagine, infi­nitely more so than the precisely real­ized hells of Bosch, Dante, or Hod Serling. 
And yet, on the eve of llalloween, the thought ~>f ghostly persistence crowds in on my mmd. 
"All evidence is against it, but all belief is for it," remarked Dr. Johnson on the subject of spirits, as always cutting to the heart of the matter. Who doesn't believe that we are surrounded by supernatural figures, weighing in on our moments of doubt and possibly even operating on us in our sleep? Let's face facts: What arc thos"c huge-eyed, tiny­mouthed mutes in the flying saucers except ghosts or devils in modern guise? Peruvian peasants would have no prob­lem identifying them. Why do we? If you substitute rectal probes for possession (and it's not a far distance between them), the lifeless black eyes for burning red ones, and the ultra-secret desert autopsy room for the black sabbath in the heart of the forest, there is little to choose between the two. And I happen to know this, yes, know, because-I am willing to admit here in print for the first time -I have been the victim of an 


alien abduction. It occurred on April 12, 1996, at 1:30 
a.m. on the central or "God" Quad. I was returning from an evening of devotional meditation at the Basilica and looking excitedly ahead to the prospect of a late­night microwave treat in the basement of the Hesburgh Library. My reverie was broken, however, by a high-pitched whine which seemed to come from all directions and the appearance of a bril­liant light in the clouds overhead. At first I ascribed this to a passing power surge, or possibly an electrical storm of some sort. Terrified, I ran for shelter and light of the Student Center and had almost reached it when I lost conscious­ness. • 
The figures before me when I awoke were spectral and translucent, but rec­ognizably human and highly animated. They were not shimmering, yodeling ghouls one sees in movies, however, complaining about the afterlife and counseling repentance in a cacophony of rattling chains. No. On the contrary, the beings who presented themselves to me were, although translucent, opaque in parts, with the rest of their bipedal body composed of membranous yellow tissues yellow and green in color, with what appeared to be bristly hairs apparent. Their large faces were marked as inhu­man only by an excess of emotion, and the presence of large vicious pores through which they appeared to com­municate. Nor did their faces, although elongated, resemble the hydrocephalic aliens of "The X Files." These men, and they were all recognizably men, were of ordinary size or slightly smaller. I was steeling myself for the probe, which I knew from long acquaintance with these abductions to be inevitable, when one of them spoke. 
"I WANT TO PLACE A TAKE-OUT ORDER," it said, more loudly than nec­essary. 
"What?" I managed to say. "An order... " he said, more quietly than before. "I want to place an order." 
At this point, thoroughly baffled, I looked down at myself to see that I was still fully clothed, a state of affairs that would seem to preclude any intrusions onto my person. This cleared my head 
Thursday, October 31, 1996 


somewhat, and I was able to look more closely at the three or four fig­ures which, I saw now, were them­selves nude, only half-corporeal, and disfigured physical­ly and (it seemed) mentally by their sojourn through the afterlife. One seemed to be weeping; another wore an expression of ferocity which seemed to have object. Unrestrained but paralyzed in the darkness, I listened as they babbled among themselves. 
"Put him back.. . no, he's not Beeli ... I don't know that woman, or why we lost... it's not my fault... get one of the players, then ... or pick an engineering student out of the parking lot, he won't be missed." 
It then repeated its original request, speaking in the exaggerated tones of a driver at a drive-through window. 
I realized at this point that the figures before me were not so much aliens as recently deceased Notre Dame alumni, defrocked Holy Cross priests, football players who dropped the game-winning pass, hit-and-run law students, and other unquiet spirits cast forth from the ND bosom into the outer darkness. Knowing no existence other than that of the Notre Dame Family, they had, I rea­soned, been unable to cross into the next life. They too were samples collect­ed by aliens, and it had been my mistake thinking that they were responsible for my abduction. 
"We don't belong here," I recall one saying to me. "There's nowhere else for us to go ... the eye-men aren't cruel... they allowed us to bring a living mem­ber of the Notre Dame Family on board, but we got the wrong one. We'll put you back ... the pressure here keeps us from falling apart. Do you think we can get 

• DOONESBURY GARRY TRUDEAU 

Thursday, October 31, 1996 
O
ctober 18th was an uncommonly cold Atlanta day. Squatting on an ant-hill infest­ed slope outside the Point, the wedge­haped club in Atlanta's bohemian Little Five the ever-jovial Bill Barbot (guitarist) chatted shivered with the Observer about the method­and mythology behind Jawbox and their !at­
self-titled release. How did Jawbox come about covering Tori ' "Cornflake Girl" for the new album? There are two reasons that are readily apparent for covering a song. One is because it's a song you 
and love and is fun to play. Two is to try to 
something with a song that is completely out of 
r idiom. and see if you can manipulate it and 
rn it into something that is in your idiom. "Cornflake Girl" is a song I heard on the radio numerous times. and it struck me as a haunting, strange song. It's really a weird song. Weird to hear on any radio, let alone commercial alternative radio. Then there's a song "Words Between the Lies of Ages" on Neil Young's Harvest record, that has this weird, messed up rhythmic feel. I thought, "What if I tried to wedge this Tori Amos song into a Neil Young thing and make it into Jawbox?" I 

t it up expecting to be laughed out of the 
by brent icrescenzo 

room. But I played the song and explained my idea. It just sort of took off once we started playing it. 
Where did you learn to play guitar? 
Self. Strictly. Never had a lesson in my life. Well... Mel Bay's Guitar and Chord book. I was Boy Scout camp in '79 and this kid taught me chords, and that opened up a whole door. I thought everyone was playing G Major. 'It doesn't sound as good!'. Then I started to write songs. 
What was your ftrst song? 
[Laughing] Urn, I still can't get it straight in mind whether "Death Breath" was the first which was an Alice Cooper tribute, "Powerstrip," which was an ACIDC rip-off. was in 1981. 
What guitar players influence you? 
I really go all over the map now. [AC/DC] is probably my single greatest start playing guitar. He was just... Well, I Van Halen, but I could never hope to do what did. But Angus Young, once I learned barr chords, he was it. He's what made me insist mother buy me an electric guitar. He was d bomb. 
So you never came up in the hardcore scene? 
I only got into punk after that. I never started listening to punk Until 1983. That when I realized that punk was the only music that really had a sense of purpose or sense of humor about it. And I forswore ever listening to hair bands. Now, I've come fully circle and I listen to all of it. 
Now you guys are the influence on bands. 
We always get demo tapes from bands that they're really influenced by us. But I listen to and it sounds nothing like what we do. I wonder. Your influenced by us if you have drums and gui tars. 
How did your tour with Nada Surf come about? 
Matthew, the singer for Nada, has been a fan ours for a while. He was the managing editor at Guitar School [Where Barbot has a bi-monthly col­umn] when it started. His band got signed and quit his job. I've know him for about a year and a half. 
See Jawbox with Nada Surf, Tuscadero, an Engine 88 November 21st at Pierre's in Fort Wayne and November 23rd at the Metro in Chicago. 
1 
I 
1 
' 
' 
B.B. KING How Blue Can You Get? 
I
n 1945, a 20-year-old boy from Indianola, Mississippi, named Riley King set out hitchhik­ing to Memphis, Tennessee, with dreams of becoming the next great gospel performer. When he arrived, he discovered the blues, got a job play­ing a club on Beale Street, and was given the nick­name "the Beale Street Blues Boy.) From this humble beginning, B.B. King rose to become one of the most respected artists of all time. 
King has recorded countless albums in his 48 year career, but none of his studio recordings ever matched the intensity and passion of hearing him interact with a live audience. His most recent offering from MCA records shows this side of his abilities better than any previous album. "How Blue Can You Get?--Classic Live Performances 1964 to 1994," this two-disc greatest hits compila­tion contains tracks from his numerous live albums as well as many songs either released only overseas or not previously released 
The album tears right into King's career at one pivotal moment in time. The upbeat treatment of his now-classic song, "Everyday I Have the Blues," and the audience reaction to it shows the type of energy that B.B. King could elicit from a crowd. His conversational style of singing along with the seeming "speech" of his guitar, "Lucille," makes the audience so at home that you hear them 
(out of five) 

shouting responses to King's lyrics much as a con­gregation would do during a gospel song. 
The first disc rims smoothly through his albums. His speech to the inmates at Cook County Jail dur­ing the track "Worry, Worry," in which he instructs them on how to treat their women, cre­ates the ultimate audience participation environ­ment and shows B.B.King doing what he does best: call and response among his voice, Lucille, and his audience. 
The second disc picks up King's career in 1976, when he began to help other, lesser known and often younger blues musicians to be heard. It begins with a concert from the Coconut Grove in Los Angeles with King's old Beale Street partner Bobby Bland singing a duet on the old standard, "Let the Good Times Roll." 
The album ends fittingly with a cut that King recorded early in his career, "Rock Me Baby," with this particular track culled from a concert in Mannheim, Germany, in 1994. 
"How Blue Can You Get" surveys the career of one of the greatest bluesmen to ever live: his pas­sion, his ability to react to an audience and the timelessness of songs that he recorded as far back as 1948. 
--Matthew Loughran 
-

1. 
Social Distortion -White Light, White Heat, White Trash 

2. 
Beck -Odelay! ..... 

3. 
Luscious Jackson-Fever In Fever Out 

4. 
No Doubt-Tragic Kingdom 

5. 
They Might Be Giants-Factory Showroom 


6. John Spencer Blues Explosion -Now I Got Worry 
7. 
Rasputina -Thanks for the Ether 

8. 
Jane Jensen-Comic Book Whore 


9. Groovasaurus 
10. Shawn Colvin-A few small repairs 
page 12 The Observer • SPORTS Thursday, October 31, 1996 
• NFL 

Bears' woes continues as Cox will be out of action 
By MIKE NADEL 
A'sociated Pross Writer 
LAKE FOREST, Ill. 
The Chicago Bears' agonizing season has taken another painful turn, with defensive leader Bryan Cox needing surgery to repair a fractured bone at the base of his left thumb. 
At least Cox, unlike several of his less fortunate teammates, thinks he won't be out long. 
And today, despite tests that showed his thumb is broken in three places, Cox said he will try to play Sunday against Tampa Bay, then undergo surgery the next day. 
Cox had said Tuesday he planned on having the surgery Friday and would miss Sunday's game. 
"It's painful," Cox said at the time. "Doctors say on the safe side, two-to-four or four-to-six (weeks). but 1 feel like I'll be ready to play" Nov. 10 at Denver. 
Earlier Tuesday, Bears train­er Fred Caito said the normal healing time for any fracture is four to six weeks. Football play­ers, however, have been known to take the field with broken bones protected by casts or splints. 

Cox suffered the injury early in the fourth quarter of Monday's 15-13 victory over the Minnesota Vikings. Nevertheless, Cox remained in the game and made a crucial play, sacking Brad Johnson to force a fumble and then recov­ering the football at the Bears' 
35-yard line with 1:47 to go. 
The linebacker also has been bothered by shoulder and back problems, and he came under fire for criticizing teammates after a game earlier this sea­son. 
"With the things that have happened to me, I feel fortu­nate and blessed that I'm still standing," he said. "You can only play through so much. 
"My wife. was worried about the lingering effect this would have after my career. The posi­tion of the break is potentially dangerous. I could lose the use of my thumb." 
Cox's injury is just another in a series that the Bears have had to endure. 
Quarterback Erik Kramer made it through only four games before two herniated discs in his neck ended his sea­son. Backup QB Steve Stenstrom, tight end Chris Gedney and defensive tackle Chris Zorich also are done for the year. 
The list of Bears to miss 
games includes: running backs Rashaan Salaam, Raymont Harris and Robert Green; tight end Keith Jennings; corner­backs Donnell Woolford and Walt Harris; defensive tackle Jim Flanigan; guard Todd Burger, and receiver Michael Timpson. 
Several injured players -in­cluding Raymont and Walt Harris, Woolford and Flanigan -returned for Monday's vic­tory, which improved Chicago's record to 3-5 and gave the team cause for optimism about the second half. 

But now the Bears must go on without their defensive star for at least one game. Coach Dave Wannstedt, though, refuses to feel sorry for his team. 
"We are beyond this," he said. "If Bryan can't play, Barry M\nter will be ready to go. We are full speed ahead." 
A middle linebacker who switches to defensive end on passing downs, Cox leads the Bears with three sacks and three fumble recoveries. He also is tied with Marty Carter in tackles, 89. 
But the season has been frus­trating for Cox, who was signed to a four-year, $13.2 million contract after five successful but tumultuous seasons with the Miami Dolphins. 
The Bears, expected to con­tend for the NFC Central title, kept losing games. And the fiery Cox lost his composure during and after an Oct. 6 loss to Green Bay. 
During the game, he raised his middle finger to on-field officials, cursed repeatedly, threw his helmet and stood in the end zone, helmetless, dur­ing a Packers extra-point attempt. He later was fined $87,500 by the NFL. 
Also injured against the Vikings was nickel back Kevin Miniefield, who is expected to miss about a month with torn knee cartilage. Miniefield, who blocked a punt for a safety in the game, was scheduled to undergo arthroscopic surgery today. 
Have something to say? Use Observer classifieds. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. 
Classifieds Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
NOTICES 
WANNA LAUGH? COME SEE ... 
COMEDIAN TAYLOR MASON FRIDAY. NOVEMBER 1ST 8 P.M./ TIX $3.00 AT THE DOOR IN THE LIBRARY AUDITORIUM! 
SPONSORED BY SUB-WHERE FANTASIES ARE A WAY OF LIFE! 
SPRING BREAK Travel Free 
Organize a Small Group Earn $$$ 
Cancun Jamaica Bahamas 
Package includes 2 meals + 3hrs. 
all-u-can drink daily. Don Surf & 
Sun (800)763-5606. 
THAT PRETTY PLACE, Bed and Breakfast Inn has space available for football wknds. 5 Rooms with private baths, $70 -$90, Middlebury, 30 miles from campus. Toll Road, Exit #107, 1-800-418-9487 
Spring Break Bahamas Party 
Cruise! 6 Days $279! Includes All 
Meals, Free Parties, Taxes! Great 
Beaches & Nightlife! Prices 
Increase Soon-Save $50! spring­
breaktravel.com 1-800-678-6386 
Cancun & Jamaica Spring Break Specials! 7 Nights Air & Hotel From South Bend $419! Prices Increase Soon-Save $501 Save $150 on Food, Drinks! 111% Lowest Price Guarantee! springbreaktravel.com 1-800-678-6386 
Spring Break Panama City! Boardwalk Beach Resort! Best Hotel, Location, Price! 7 Nights $129! Daytona-Best Location $139! Cocoa Beach Hilton $169! spring­breaktravel.com 1-800-678-6386 
ILOST & FOUND I 
LOST: Green Eddie Bauer Jacket. 
Size XL Tall. If found, please call 
X2079. Thanks. 
FOUND ONE LOST KITIY 
During the heavy rains on Tuesday evening, a brave Lyons Hall woman rescued a tiny kitty from the river flowing down South Quad, and we are hoping to find its owner so we can return her safely. OK, to tell you the truth, we hope we don't find the owner so we can keep her forever, but we were forced to place this ad. 
KITIY DESCRIPTION Furry, four legs, two ears, one tail. If you lost your kitty and want her back, call Kyle at 631-0779. 
WANTED .. 
Notre Dame students 
PART-TIME WORK 
$1 0.25/starting Flexible hours around classes. Scholarships/Internships available .. 

Eve. and wknd. hours available. Transportation necesary. For details call 282-2357 
Minnesotan needs ride home Nov 8 to watch Tommy/Johnny game Kristin @ 2577 
HUGE ND'FAN DESPERATE FOR 5 GAs FOR RUTGERS. CALL PAT (813)360-2243. 
Hundereds of Students Are Earning Free Spring Break Trips & Money! Sell 8 Trips & Go Freel Bahamas Cruise $279, Cancun & Jamaica $399, Panama City/Daytona $119! www.springbreaktravel.com 1-800-678-6386 
SPRING BREAK Cancun, Mazatlan From $399 Lowest pri'ce guaranteed! Sejl 15 trips and travel free + cash! Call Sunbreaks 1-800-446-8355 
YOUR LOVING CARE, 3 LOVING 
KIDS, MY HOME, 
M,W AFTERNOONS, GOOD$. 
277-9079 

Participants needed for studies in 
memory, language, & perception. 
call Dr. Radvansky at 631-64 73 
VOLUNTEER CHESS COACH 
NEEDED! ST. ANTHONY'S 
GRADE SCHOOL. 1 HOUR PER 
WEEK AFTER 3:00PM. 
CONTACT: CHERYLKOVAS 
233-9155 

INTERESTED IN MAKING EXTRA MONEY? LARGE PHYSICAL THERAPY PRACTICE LOOKING FOR PEO­PLE TO MAKE FOLLOW-UP PHONE CALLS TO SEE HOW OUR PATIENTS ARE DOING. FIL­ING ALSO AVAILABLE. FLEXIBLE HAS. CALL GERARD/DOUG 233-5754 
FOR RENT 
WALK TO CAMPUS 
2-3-4-5 BEDROOM HOMES 
232-2595 

BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY 
Private Homes for Football, JPW, Graduation, etc. 
219-291-7153 
BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY. 
private homes for football, JPW, graduation, etc. 219-291-7153 
HOUSING AVAILABLE NOW & 
FOR '97-98 SCHOOL YR. 
2-10 STUDENTS. CLOSE TO CAMPUS. DOMUS PROPERTIES-KRAMER 674-2571. 
FURNISHED!!, 1 BEDROOM APT, VERY CLEAN, ALL UTILITIES INCLUDED, FREE CABLE, 3 MILES FROM CAMPUS, PRIVATE ENTRANCE, CALL AFTER 5PM. 232-0355 
ROOMMATE NEEDED, SUPER 
RIVERFRONT HOME, $350 STU­
DENT OR PROFESSIONAL; 683­
3720 DAYS 
ROOMS IN PRIVATE HOME FOR 
ND-SMC EVENTS. 
IDEAL FOR FOOTBALL WEEK­
ENDS. 
VERY CLOSE TO CAMPUS. 
243-0658. 
FOR SALE 
COMPUTER, IBM PS/1, 486SX2 50 MHZ, 8 MB RAM, 253 MB HARD DISK, 3.5" DISK DRIVE, 14" COLOR MONITOR, WINDOWS FOR WORK GROUPS, PANASON­IC KX-P 1124 24 PIN DOT MATRIX PRINTER. $500. 273-0959 
COMPUTER, GATEWAY 486DX2 
66MHZ, 16 MB RAM, 1.2 GB 
TOTAL HARD DRIVE CAPACITY, 
3.5" DISK DRIVE, 5.25" DISK 
DRIVE, 4X CD ROM DRIVE, 28.8 
MODEM, 15" COLOR MONITOR, 
FULL TOWER CASE, 2MB SVGA 
CARD, WINDOWS 95. $1,000. 
273-0959 
Mountain Bike for sale. Paramount, with Shimano components and many extras. $300 obo. 273-8112 
90 VW JETIA BLACK 2DR SNRF 5SPD MINT $6500 OBO 277-3569 
Best Buy in Area! Large Bright & Spacious 3 bdrm, with 21/2 car garage, and more. 11/2 miles from ND. Priced for Quick Sale at $93,500. All offers considered. Ph. days 254-4282 or eve 287-7918 for details. 
TICKETS 
Two USC tickets 
call with an offer 
4-3593 
ask for Kevin 
NOTRE DAME GA'S WANTED ALL GAMES HOME AND AWAY 232-0058 24 HRS. BUY -SELL -TRADE 
TICKET-MART, INC. 
WANTED: NOTRE DAME GA'S ANY/ALL GAMES. PLEASE CALL 232-0061. 
FOR SALE 2 GA's ALL HOME GAMES 235-3394 
ALUM NEEDS GA's for WASH, AF, PITI & RUTGERS 618-274-2990 M-F 8am-6pm 
N.D. Football tickets bought & sold. 219-232-2378 a.m. 288-2726 p.m. 
STUDENT FOOTBALL TIX FOR SALE-ALL GAMES!!! 
call James X1658 
NEED ONE RUTGERS TICKET !! 
Call Elena x2900 
FOR SALE AIRFORCE PITI 
AND RUTGERS GAs FOR 
SALE 272-7233........... 
TIX for every home game. Call (301) 445-3955 
NEED BC TIX! As many as possible CALL ANYTIME: 4-1382 or (617) 828-1089 
I NEED RUTGERS GA'S 
CALL KATIE 243-9038 
••••• NAVY GAME TIXS ••••• 
Selling 4 GA tixs. 
Call x1453 ask for Patrick 
$$$$ 
NEED4 PITIGA 288-9102 
$$$$ 
!@#$%"&.())("&"%$#@! 
I NEED PITI TICKETS!!! 
Perferably Stud Tkt. Converted to 
GA. .. 
CALL 4-4217 ... 
!@#$%A&•()){"&A%$#@! 
Help!! I need Rutgers GAs!! 
Please call X3886. 
ALUM NEEDS RUTGERS TIX 
CALL 773-525-3170 W/BO 
NEED 3 RUTGERS GA's 
Call Rob X3014 
Wanted: 2-3 G.A.s for N.D. vs. Pitt. Call X4684, no student tix please! 
NEED 5 GA'S FOR PITI CHRIS X3046 
NEEDED: 1 STUDENT TIX OR GA FOR PITI-CALL DENIS AT 243­9053 
4 SALE: Two Pitt student or GA tixs. Call X2577 or X3950 
I NEED AIR FORCE TIX: STU­DENT CONVERTED GA'S, STU­DENT TIX, OR GA'S. CALL MEGHAN @232-7839 
NOTRE DAME GA'S WANTED ALL GAMES HOME 
AND AWAY 
232-0058 
24 HRS. BUY-SELL-TRADE TICKET-MART, INC. 

WANTED: NOTRE DAME GA'S 
ANY/ALL GAMES. PLEASE CALL 
232-0061. 
$$$$$$ 

I NEED GA OR FACULTY TIXS 
ALL HOME GAMES. 
272-6551 

n. d. tickets tor sale 271 1635 
NEED BC & WASH TIX 
312-951-5008 
NEED 2 RUTGERS TIX 
Call Pat X3015 
Beer, Money, and Lavish Praise in 
exchange for 3 tix to Rutgers. 508­
339-7497 

NEED 2 GAs for Rutgers 
Alyssa 271-9847 
I need 4 GAs for Pitt. Will pay big 
bucks! 

Call Katie x3572 
NEED 3 PITI STUDENT GAs 
Call John @ 243-1935 
Need three tickets to Air Force, stu­dents or GA's. Call Liz at 423-11 80 
Buy/sell ND Pitt & Rutgers tickets­
Check our price 674-7645. 
PITI&RTGRS 
2 MARRIED STU BOOKS 
BEST OFFER 
232-2586 

PERSONAL 
COLOR COPIES ON CAMPUS! 
COLOR COPIES ON CAMPUS! 
COLOR COPIES ON CAMPUS! 
The highest quality full-color 
copies are now available at 
THE COPY SHOP 
LaFortune Student Center 
Phone #631-COPY 
0 DISCOVER THE COPY SHOP 0 in the LaFortune Student Center Mon. 7:30am -Midnight Tues. 7:30am -Midnight Wed. 7:30am -Midnjght Thur. 7:30am -Midnight Fri. 7:30am -7:00pm Sat. Noon -6:00pm Sun. Noon -Midnight (closed home football Saturdays) 
Spring Break Bahamas Party Cruise! 6 Days $279! Includes All Meals, Free Parties, Taxes! Great Beaches & Nightlife! Prices 
Increase Soon -Save $50! spring­
breaktravel.com 1-800-678-6386 
Cancun & Jamaica Spring Break Specials! 7 Nights Air & Hotel From South Bend $419! Increase Soon ­Save $50! Save $150 On Food, Drinks! 111% Lowest Price Guarantee! springbreaktravel.com 1-800-678-6386 . .... STRUTING THE HOOKER 
PANTS ALL THE WAY TO PA .. 
TIM CORBITI IS THE COOLEST, PARTIEST GUY EVER TO LIVE IN LAFAYETIE 
Come to C.J.'s Pub Thursday 
Halloween Night for the best bash 
in the area! With special guest 
Doug McKenna 
of George and the Freeks 
Costumes, music and fun all night! 
CONGRATULATIONS, JONATHAN EDWARDS-1996 RECSPORTS UNDERGRAD TENNIS CHAMPION!!! 
FAT RADER AND THE BAD GUYS HALLOWEEN TOUR 1996 
Thursday, Oct. 31 CLUB 23 
Friday, November 1 CORBY'S 
Like passing out in toilets? Cute 
Guy wanted for Flanner Dance. 
Call Hutch @1305. 
Big Joe (a.k.a. "stretch" marks), Looking for Big, beautiful African queen to accompany to Flanner for­mal call 271-9603. Also need help with my guillotine and Biochem. 
CLASS OF 1998 
Miss your friends that are study­ing abroad? Send them a note in the Class Council Care Packages. Drop them off at the Class office (213 LaFortune). Include name and address on the envelope and we'll make sure they get there! 
-HOCKEY PLA YEAS LOOK-
Any off-campus person 
interested in playing off-campus 
lnterhall HOCKEY should call: 
Chuck @ 243-9315 or 
Kevin and Rix @ 273-5928 
-HOCKEY PLAYERS LOOK-
New Daytime Hours Starting Mon. , Oct. 28 
9:00 am -4:30pm 
Alumni Senior Club 
Student Activities is hiring delivery people for the ND Cake Service. 
Mon-Sat afternoons or early 
evenings. Hours flexible. Must 
have own transportation. If 
interested contact 
Mary Edgington, 631-4077. 
Cavanaugh Kerry says to all of Cavanaugh -have a fun, happy and safe Halloween! Remember to check your candy before eating it for razors! Have fun everybody! 
Kerry:) 
Thursday, October 31, 1996 
The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 13 
-
I • 

J'J\O'It£ ~' tGl-rr\\\ 
\ THURSDAY OCTOBER 3 I ST 
i 

/ LAFORTUNE BALLRC)OM ..... 8:00PM 
•'-'' 

FREE BAGS OF CANDY TO THE FIRST I 00 STUDENTS
l\( I 
' 
1 ( ~ 

(H:OO pm
----allo"veen 
& rnte Shining (1111111 I'"'I 
"lle afraid...vct-y afraid." 

Thursday, October 31, 1996 
page 14 The Observer • SPORTS 
-
• COLLEGE FOOTBALL 

Border war has lost its luster 
SEC rivilary is turned into 
Gator bait 
By PAUL NEWBERRY 
Associated Press Wri!er 
ATHENS, Ga. 
It's billed as "The World's Largest Outdoor Cocktail Party," which gives some sem­blance of meaning to the Georgia-Florida rivalry. 
After all. it sure isn't much of a football game anymore. 
Once a landmark on the Southeastern Conference schedule, Florida has turned its 

-·-· game with Georgia into a ritual beating, like some palooka challenging Mike Tyson to a fight every year. "As far as the players, we don't have a real appreciation of the rivalry," Florida center Jeff Mitchell said. "We have our own rivals." It's hard to convince most of the Gator players that Georgia ever was a serious challenge. Sinee Steve Spurrier became coach in 1990, Florida has won six straight games by an aver­ago seore of 41-17. The last two meetings, when the series switched to a home­and-home affair while the Gator Bowl in Jacksonville was being rebuilt, have been espe­cially ugly: 52-14 and 52-17. Maybe that's why Mitchell, when asked to name Florida's top rivals, listed Florida State, Tennessee, Auburn and even Miami. "if we played them." Georgia's first-year coach, Jim Donnan, acknowledged it's hard for a rivalry to be taken seriously when one team has such dominance over the other. This Saturday, as the series returns to Jacksonville for the first time since 1993, it looks like more of the same with No. 1 Florida (7-0) a 33-point fa­vorite over the Bulldogs (3-4). "We just need to get this game back to a rivalry where it's competitive," Donnan said. "But before we start talking a whole lot about that, we've got to be competitive with every­body else in the league." Under Spurrier, Florida has won four of the last five SEC ti­tles with an overall record of 68-13-1. Georgia is an ordinary 40-28-1 this decade. "It's frustrating," receiver Hines Ward said. "None of the guys have not beaten Florida since they came here. Everybody wants to beat them once before they leave." Surprisingly, Georgia had the upper hand in this rivalry be­fore Spurrier the coach was thrown into the mix, winning 15 of the 19 meetings before 1990. In fact. the Bulldogs still hold a commanding lead in the series at 44-28-2. "Their fans used to be so wild when they used to win all those games," said Florida safety Fred Weary, who grew up in Jacksonville as a Gators fan. "I used to not even want to watch on TV. "I remember the days when we were heavily favored and they beat us 28-0 or something like that. They were always talking about, 'You can never beat Georgia.' Those days I re­member." Indeed, Georgia has probably been responsible for more Florida heartache than any other program. There was a 26-21 victory in 1980, when Buck Belue hooked up with Lindsay Scott on a 93­yard touchdown pass with 1 :03 
remaining. To make matters worse for Florida, the Bulldogs went on to win the national championship. 
Georgia came from behind to win in 1975 and 1976, both times when Florida was playing for a share of the SEC title. 
In 1985, Florida was ranked No. 1 for the first time -until a 24-3 loss to the Bulldogs the following week. 
Then there was 1966, when the Gators rolled into Jacksonville with a 7-0 record, a No. 5 ranking and a quarter­back named Steve Spurrier, who was on his way to winning the Heisman Trophy. Nevertheless, Georgia rolled to a 27-10 victory -intercepting three of Spurrier's passes ­and went on to capture the first of Vince Dooley's five SEC titles. 
Many still look back to that game as the genesis for Spurrier's intense dislike of Georgia and his desire to not only beat the Bulldogs, but beat them badly. 
Spurrier brushes aside that kind of talk, but his players no­tice a little more fire in his eyes during Georgia week. And he's always quick to give them a lit­

JOHN"N"Y LJNITA.S GOLDEN A.R!VI: .AWA.RD FINALISTS.  
Ro:n. Povvlu_s Notre :Dame  
Pat: Ba.r:n.es California  
:K.oy I>et:mer Colorado  
J a.ke Plu_mmer .Arizona State  
St:eve Sa.rkisia.:n. Brigham Young  
St:eve Sch:n.u_r Northwestern  
I>a.:n.:n.y Wu_erffel Florida  

P R I N C I P L E S of S 0 U N 0 R E T I R EM EN T I NV E S T I N G 

tie history lesson about the se­ries-pre-1990, of course. 
"We mentioned a little bit of the overall series," Spurrier admitted. "Most of them have a little bit of an idea that Georgia used to whip up on the Gators with regularity, and when they did, they talked about how much more character and more fight they had." 
Donnan realizes his long-term job security depends on getting this series back on somewhat of an even keel. 
"Probably the most vivid thing that happened to me on the barnstorming tour we had in the spring was all the Georgia people coming up to me and saying, 'Let's get after Florida,"' Donnan recalled. "That was a very vivid mes­sage." 
If you see sports happening, call The Observer at 1-4543. 

Americans are living longer than ever. So it's quite Il.. possible you'll spend 20 or 30 years or more in retirement. Can you afford it? Unless you're indepen­dently wealthy, chances are you'll need more than your pension and Social Security to support the kind of lifestyleyou'll want. 
How can you help ensure that you'll be in good financial shape? Sign up for TIAA-CREF SRAs -tax­deferred annuities available only to people in education or research. 
SRAs are easy. No pain, no sweat. 

The best way to build strength -physical or fiscal -is to start at a level that's comfortable and add to your regi,men as you go along. 
With TIAA-CREF SRAs, you conveniently contribute through your employer's payroll system. You can start with a modest amount and increase your contribution as your salary grows. 

The important thing is to start now. Delaying for even a year or two can have a big impact on the amount of income you'll have when you retire. 
TIAA-CREF: Your fiscal fitness program. 
TIAA-CREF is the nation's largest retirement system, managing over $150 billion in assets for more than 1.7 million people. We offer a wide range of SRA allocation choices, long-term investment expertise, and remarkably low expenses.1 
Call 1 800 842-2776 for an SRA Enrollment Kit or our interactive SRA Enrollment Software. Or visit us on the Internet at gopher://tiaa-cref.org, or http://www.tiaa-cref.org. 
Ensuring the future for those who shape it.SM 

I. StaniklrJ c:l PtJtJr"J ltuuranrc &ling AnaiYJU, 1995; Lip~r Analytical Services, Inc., Lipptr-DirtcltK'J 'Analytit-a/ Daltl, 1995 (Quanerly). 
For more complete information, including charges and expenses, call I 800 842-2733, extension 5509, for a prospectus. Read the prospectus carefully before you invest or aend money. TIAA-CREF Individual & Institutional Services, Inc., distributes CREF certificates. 
----~~~----..........-­
Thursday, october 31, 1996 
• MAJOR lEAGUE BASEBAll 
Please Recycle The Observer 


MORRIS CIVIC AUDITORIUM November 1-2-3, 1996 Friday 8 p.m., Saturday 2 p.m. & 8 p.m., Sunday 1 :30 p.m. and 7:30 p.m. EST Tickets: $20.50 to $45.50 Call 219-235-9190 
Box office open Monday -Friday 1 0 am -5 pm Group, Student & Senior Citizen Discounts Charge to VISA, MasterCard, Amex 
A Broadway Theatre League Presentation 
The Observer • SPORTS page 15 
-...-
LaRussa st~lected as top dog 
St. Louis skip­per honored for third time 
By BEN WALKER 
Associated Press Writer 
NEW YORK 
Tony La Russa, who brought his intense style to a new league and led the St. Louis Cardinals to the NL Central championship, won The Associated Press manager of the year award Wednesday. 
La Russa earned the honor for the third time. He also won in 1983 with the Chicago White Sox and in 1992 with Oakland. 
La Russa received 49 votes in balloting by a nationwide panel of sports writers and broad­casters. Bruce Bochy of NL West champion San Diego was second with 30 votes and Johnny Oates of AL West cham­pion Texas was third with 27. 
Joe Torre of the World Series champion New York Yankees was fourth with 19. Voting was completed before the start of the playoffs. · 
La Russa, who spent 17 years managing in the AL, left the Athletics last October to join the Cardinals. Several of his play­ers, such as Dennis Eckersley and Todd Stottlemyre, also joined him in St. Louis and helped the Cardinals reach the playoffs for the first time since 1987. 
La Russa's serious, tense de­meanor was a big change for many Cardinals players and fans, who had become accus­tomed to easy-going managers such as Whitey Herzog and Torre. 
At the start of the season, he ruffled some people in the St. louis family by benching Ozzie Smith and starting Royce Clayton. Eventually, that con­tJroversy went away and the Cardinals, coming off the sec­ond-worst record in the NL, began to win. 
"I take the responsibility of managing serious," La Russa said during the NL champi­onship series. "The biggest re­sponsibility is on the players. But being a manager or coach, you're supposed to contribute a piece. 
The Ob:server 
is now accepting applications for the following position: 
Sports '\Vriters Sports Cop~y Editors 
Please contact Tim Sherman or Joe Villinski in the Sports department at 1-4543 for more information. 
• 
"I hate when players feel they have to overcome a bad man­ager. That's embarrassing. That's why I have one of my strategies -get so far ahead I can't screw up." 
The Cardinals passed the .500 mark for good until June 29, and clinched the Central title on Sept. 24. It was sixth division championship for La Russa, who won the World Series with the A's in 1989. 
La Russa's work habits are well known throughout the ma­jors. He usually gets to the ball­park six hours before games, and was always among the early arrivals in spring training. 
"We have a lot of work to do," LaRussa said in March. 
La Russa, 52, was hired last year by St. Louis general man­ager Walt Jocketty, who had spent 10 years as Oakland's di­rector of baseball administra­tion. Jocketty, who joined the Cardinals the previous year, figured La Russa would have no trouble adjusting to NL-style strategy. 
"I don't think it took him long at all," Jocketty said. "He did a lot of homework, he did a lot of preparation like he does for ev­erything. 
"He talked to a lot of different guys who have managed in this league, are managing in this league, guys who managed in both leagues. Now he's like an old pro." 
Bochy, in his second season as a big league manager, led the Padres to their first playoff spot since 1984. His team surged in September to over­take Los Angeles for the NL West title. 
Oates led Texas to its first 
postseason berth. Torre, fired 
as the Cardinals manager last 
year, succeeded in his first sea­
son with the Yankees. 
Lou Piniella won the AP 
award last season with Seattle . 


Thursday, October 31, 1996
page 16 The Observer • SPORTS 
...... 
• WOMEN'S PRO BASKETBAll
• COLLEGE fOOTBAll 

Buckeye's star still shutout 
By RUSTY MILLER 
Associated Press Writer 
COLUMBUS, Ohio 
Ohio State's Shawn Springs is ealled the best eornerbaek in the nation by coaeh .John Cooper. 
NFL draft expert Mel Kiper .Jr. says if Springs elects to give up his final year of eligibility, he will be the best athlete avail­able in the NFL draft. 
Yet Springs doesn't even have an interception through the seeond-ranked Buckeyes' seven victories. 
"Everybody else in the sec­ondary has at least one. Even Gary Berry, a freshman, has an interception and I don't have one," Springs said. "You all don't have to worry about me. You all stop talking about it and I'll get one, man." 
A year after leading the team in interceptions with five, Springs is teased eonstantly by teammates. 
"We get on him every day," safety Damon Moore said with a big grin. "Even coach Cooper said, 'Shawn, maybe if Hob (Kelly) and Damon get a couple more picks. maybe they'll pitch one to you."' 
Springs takes the kidding in stride, but it still grates him that Ohio State has 13 intercep­tions by eight other players. It has not affected his confidence. 
"I don't think there's no one 
in the country I couldn't eover," 
he said. 
It is the brash and loquacious 6-foot, 190-pound junior who drives the Buckeye defense. Springs, along with fellow ear­ners Ty Howard and backup Antoine Winfield, are isolated in man-to-man coverage in Ohio State's press defense while the other nine players concentrate on chasing the quarterback or stopping the run. 
Because many quarterbacks steer clear of throwing in his direction, Springs has begun to playfully taunt them. 
"I talk so mueh trash during a game," he said. "Most quar­terbacks in the Big Ten laugh at me. I'll say, 'Why don't you throw just onee to my side? I just want one pass over here!"' 
Springs came to Ohio State 
from Silver Spring, Md., but his 
roots are scarlet and gray. His 
father, Ron, is 12th in career 
rushing at Ohio State and 
starred for the Dallas Cowboys 
in the late 1970s. 
The father still calls the son 
on Sunday mornings to go over 
the previous day's game, cri­
tiquing and suggesting. I le will 
have more than just a little in­
put after the season, when 
Shawn ponders whether to pass 
up his last year of eligibility to 
make himself available for the 
NFL draft. 
Asked if he were considering 
whether to stay next year, 
Springs said, "I've got two 
more years at Ohio State and 
I'm going to enjoy my two more 
years. I've got four more games 
here." 
So, does he have two more 
years, or four more games? 
''I'll be honest wiih you, after 
the season, me and my family 
will sit down and talk about it," 
he said. 
Kiper's praise and other spec­
ulation that Springs would go 
high in the first round have 
raised the stakes. 
"It has to influence you," 
Springs said. "If you know that 
you can go in the top 10, you 
think about it because you can't 
make that $3 million a year 
later that you missed. 
"But, you know, I'm not the 
type of guy that plays football 



WNBA in the works 
Associated Press 

NEW YORK 
The WNBA, the NBA-spon­sored league for women play­ers, will have New York and Los Angeles among its eight cities when it begins play this .June. 
The WNBA announced today that Charlotte, Cleveland and Houston will join New York in the Eastern Conference. In ad­dition to Los Angeles, the Western Conference features Phoenix, Sacramento and Utah. 
Among the players in the WNBA will be Hebecca Lobo and Cheryl Swoopes. 
"The eight charter WNBA teams collectively will bring to women's basketball state-of­the-art buildings, proven man­agement in professional bas­ketball and some major media markets," said Val Ackerman, president of the feldgling league. 
The University of Notre Dame Department of Music p s e n t s Guest Artist 
David Dahl 
in an organ recital 
playing works by 
Vincent LUbeck, Dame Ethel Smyth, Hans Olav Lien, Fanny Mendelssohn, Michel Corrette, Marcel Dupre and Cesar Franck 

Sunday, November 3 8 pm Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
The concert is free and open to the public. 
STUDY ASIA 
SYRACUSE ABROAD 
IN 

HONG KONG 
STUDY-TRAVEL IN CHINA 
BUSINESS & LIBERAL ARTS COURSES 
GENEROUS GRANTS & SCHOLARSHIPS 
STUDY IN ENGLISH 
INTERNSHIPS 
Syracuse University I 19 Euclid Avenue Syracuse, NY 13244-4170 1-800-235-3472 DIPA@suadmin.syr.edu 
http://sumweb.syr.edu/dipa 

• ---~------~-------~ Thursday, October 31, 1996 The Observer • SPORTS page 17 
• COllEGE fOOTBAll 
Texas Longhorn players amidst a 
By CHIP BROWN at an Austin hotel that included 
Associated Press Writer Texas receiver Mike Adams, 
safety Tre Thomas and corner­
back Bryant Westbrook. 
AUSTIN, Texas The source told The 
Texas has told the Big 12 Associated Press that reports Conference and NCAA it is in­began to surface Tuesday that vestigating reports that at least the three players had met with three football players may have a man in the hotel's restaurant met with an agent on Sunday. who discussed such topics as 
"We are launching a com­the NFL salary cap and how plete investigation into reports contracts in the NFL work that some of our players before handing them some allegedly had a meeting with an papers. agent this weekend," Texas Mackovic said the players coach John Mackovic said would remain eligible to play in today. Saturday's game against Baylor 
"At this point, we cannot while the investigation pro­make any determination on the ceeds. players. We will try to get to David Berst, head of the 
the bottom of the report as NCAA's enforcement division, quickly as possible, but cannot said, "Student athletes are per­make any decisions until we mitted to meet with agents but complete the investigation," are not permitted to agree oral­Mackovic said. ly or in writing to be repre­
According to a source close to sented by an agent, and they the university, the investigation may not receive any cash or 
The University of Texas football program has hit hard times on and now possibly off the field. 
centers on a reported meeting material benefits from agents." 


• SPORTS BRIEFS 
Volleyball • RecSports 

on Thurs., Nov. 7 and Tues., 10, 7-10 p.m. in the Joyce Center \l\JiJ e:stablil~hedtl;la:V advanced sign-ups necessary. For 
Late Night Olympic Steering r ......""''tt"'" serving on the Late Night Olympic Ste1Arimt Kara at 1-8237. .. 
Off-Campus A-team Basketball· Ifiritl'lrAs \DaSKI:'~tmw contact Jeff Milligan at 27 Off-Campus Volleyball -int;ere1sted interhall volleyball please 
ASaint Mary's College I John M. Duggan Series Event 
Hav~ ~~. 
The Delany Sisters' First 100 Years 
Friday, November 1 8 PM ~,, O'Laughlin Auditorium ·\ .~;:4i~f·~... 
Provocative and entertaining ...a dramatic experience to be shared with the entire family. 
Tickets': Students: $5; Adults: $18; on sale at the Saint Mary's College Box Office in Olaughlin Auditorium, 
9am-5pm, Monday-Friday Saint Mary's College Credit card orders accepted by M O~AU phonea\219/284-4626 CE 
'discounts for senior citizens, • SMCINDcommunityandgroups FOR THE ARTS 

g@yoyo.com.
i\ to kpm
({§,ti) e-ma . G me. 
the In-Sate a "bbean for two.
~ . to the carl 
The Global Leader'm 
~ a 7-daY traP 
1..------------• Your one-of-a-kind source for everything you'll need to know. Watch for our In-Sites at www.kpn~gcan~pus.conl 

• MAJOR lEAGUE BASEBAll 

Belle come.s with high price 
By KEN BERGER 
Associated Press Writer 
CLEVELAND 
Despite all the numbers, Albert Belle still comes with a disclaimer: Buyer beware. 
The stats say he's the most valuable free agent of the off­season, maybe of the '90s. Still, there are questions about his attitude, his temper, his fre­quent transgressions involving fans, media, even teammates. 
The controversial slugger filed for free agency Monday, the second day of the filing period, which lasts until Nov. 10. 
Belle's agent, Arn Tellem, is scheduled to meet with the 
Friday, Nov. 1st 8:00p.m. Library Auditorium 
Sponsored by SUB 

1996 Grand Prize Winners Fisch off National Chamber Music Competition Annenberg Auditorium, Snite Museum ofArt Sunday, November 3, 2:00 p.m. Tickets: $6 Adults (in advance) $8 at the door $3 students/seniors/Friends of the Snite. Call the Fischoff office for reservations at (219) 237-4871. 
Cleveland Indians this week. Though Belle could just be us­ing free agency as a bargaining chip against the Indians, Tellem said he expects to talk money with other clubs. 
"At this point, our goal is to talk to the Indians, and in two weeks talk to the other teams as well," Tellem said. 
Belle, in the prime of his ca­reer at 30, rejected a five-year, $38 million deal in March that would have made him the sec­or.d highest-paid player in baseball after Ken Griffey Jr. 
''The last time we really talked in great detail was a week into the season," Tellem said. "Everything's been an hold since then." 
Indians general manager John Hart said he knew all along that Belle would test the free-agent market. 
"We are looking forward to negotiating with Albert and his representative in the very near future in hopes of keeping him a member of the Cleveland Indians," Hart said. 
In 1995, Belle became the 

... 
first major leaguer in history with 50 homers and 50 doubles in a season, leading the Indians to their first AL pennant in 41 years. 
This year, Belle batted .311 with 48 home runs and 148 RBis as the Indians repeated as AL Central champions. 
Hart and Cleveland manager Mike Hargrove acknowledged this season that controversy over Belle's collision with Fernando Vina caused a dis­traction for the team. 
For every good stat about Belle (.538 with the bases loaded this season, AL RBI leader for the second year in a row), there is a bad one to match. 
The most telling one concerns Belle's suspensions: five in six seasons. 
Tellem was not ready to reveal the short list of teams Belle would like to play for. 
"I don't think we really can say at this point until we hear back what the Indians' position is," Tellem said. 


-·~---...---­

page 18 The Observer· SPORTS Thursday, October 31, 1996 
•NFL 

Rams' rookie QB bas 
~n&-
CaSe of butterfingers 
By R.B. FALLSTROM 
Associated Press Writer 
ST. LOUIS 
The rookie season of St. Louis Rams quarterback Tony Banks has been an unsettling mixture of big plays and bob­bles. 
When coach Rich Brooks de­moted sore-elbowed Steve Walsh to third string and handed his second-round draft pick the job in mid-September, he expected some mistakes. Never this many. 
In six games, five of them starts, the NFL's only rookie starter at quarterback has thrown for 1.074 yards and seven touchdowns. He has a powerful arm, is nimble on his feet and is getting more com· fortable with the offense with every week. 
Last week he had the first 300-yard passing game of his career, going 26-for-40 for 353 yards -a record for a Rams rookie. He's thrown a TD pass in all five starts and led the NFL's worst offense to a season-high 486 total yards. 
Brooks looks at those num­bers, and sees a bright future. 
But if Banks had to grade himself on the tlrst half of the year it wouldn't be pretty. 
''I'm what, 1·4?" he said. "I don't know, that sounds like a D or an F to me." 
That's largely because of an· other set of numbers, the one that makes his coach shudder. In six games, Banks has fum­bled 15 times, losing seven of them. 


In 20 years11hs ahead coach in college and,,Jbe NFI.,, Brooks has never been around a quar~ terback with .s1,1ch a case of butterrmgers. .. 
"He's just not used to being a ballcarrier, and we obviously need to stress that to him and work on that with him," Brooks said. "He's fumbling far too many times." 
At the midpoint oLthe sea­son, Banks is only three fum­bles shy Of the· NFt record shared by D~ve I<,rjeg and Warren Momi'> Krieg Jumbled 18 times with Seattle in •1989 and Moon 18 "tim~s .witl1 
Houston in 1990. "!®Mil • . ·''A+ tfii• Banks dc>esn't pe~d to b13 told he's become a target a.s well as a •lrigger man, Linemen grab~ing.for thc:Lball to get him used to ta.king:bet* ter care of it:is llecoming a 
NBC Ditka 
that 
IH 
continued from page 20 
chiefly responsible for Fisher's success on this side of the ball. The best rushing corps in the league will be running straight at them, so the Fisher line needs to step up and eliminate any possible holes that Alumni may exploit. 
3.) Zahm Hall vs. 
6.) Planner Gamecocks 
Revenge will be on both teams' minds as they meet this Sunday. Zahm is looking to meet Alumni again to avenge an earlier regular season loss. Planner is hoping to advance once again to the championship game in the Hall's final hour. 
Zahm's defense is the key component for the team's chances for a championship. The defensive corps has not al­lowed a touchdown at all this season, and will look to extend this streak into the post season. A strong defensive line will pre­sent problems for the 'Cocks Morrissey. In order for the 'Cocks to come away with an upset, they will need to use this experience to figure out a way to crack the Zahm line. Erik Himan will anchor a running game that has proven to be quite streaky at times. 

The key to the upset will defi­nitely be the passing game. Zahm's secondary has been rel­atively untested in the regular season, and this will need to be exploited by Planner. 
On the defense, a tough line­backing corps will help out in both passing and rushing defenses, as Brett Galley and Robert Miakawya shore up this, the strongest, part of the 'Cock defense. 
4.) Keough Kangaroos vs. 
5.) Sorin Screaming Otters 
The new face in the playoffs, the Keough Kangaroos, will face the oldest dorm on cam­pus, Sarin, in this highly touted four vs. five match-up. 
Keough will rely on a produc­tive offense to break through a tough Sarin defense. The run­ning game will probably have the best chance for success, as the Sorin line has experienced lapses from time to time. The passing game will face the biggest challenge, the Sorin secondary has been tough against the pass all season long, with interceptions hap­pening frequently during the key moments of quite a few Sorin games. 
The Keough defense, espe­cially the backfield, will need to be on it's toes Sunday. The Kangaroo line needs to sure up its efforts, because the Sorin running game comes to life the most during close games. The secondary faces their biggest challenge this season. as the Sarin offense relies heavily on the pass. 
Sorin, the surprise of this sea­son, has resorted to a rather unusual style to enter the post­season. Whereas most offenses in the league have relied on the running game, Sorin seems to use an aerial attack the most effectively. The success of the pass will be vital to Sorin 's chances for survivaL 


• 
Tonight at Alumni Senior Club 

• 
Starting at 9 pm • *Prizes awarded for best costumes* 


BROUGHT TO YOU BY THE CLASS OF '97 

Class of 1999 

(f..'he Blarney I!Jash ~co~~ 
NC>VEIVIBER2 Live bagpipes! Free Irish food 
1 1:30 En.d of' Game 
and drinks! Bring a donation 
99

LaFortun.e Ballroom 
for the Homeless. 

~--------~---------------~~ 
Thursday, October 31,1996 The Observer • TODAY page 19 
MIXED MEDIA JACK OHMAN YOUR HOROSCOPE 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY! IN THE NEXT YEAR OF YOUR LIFE: 

,,, AN[) 1\-ll~ I~ A L£111\0N CHIFFON TART... ANO ...u:~s A 
The hotte>~ employment leads w11\ 

~ CARAM£t..• AIIID HoW ~T A MACAI».~IA 
he in the areas of educalion. public

Nllf "TRU~R£? A 6R.AND MA~I&R 
relations and adH::I1ising_ A business 

MOTHER GOOSE & GRIMM 

partnership 1ha1 is lau~ched before the winler holidavs will help you solidify recenl career gains. Both art projecls and athletic c,·enls enjoy highly favorable intlucnL·cs. Take up a new hohh\· with a ltn-ed one. A wedding thai occurs in spring of 'Y7 will bring happiness to many hearts. Parents or grandparents will influ­ence a professional choice you make next summer. 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS UA Y: newscaster Jane Pauley, soap star Deidre Hall, 
cyclist Jeannie Longo. baseball player Fred McGriff. ARIES !March 21-.-\pril 19): 
MIKE PETERS 
You enjoy having an advantage over 
olhers. A void misusing any special privileges you enjoy. Behind-the­scenes maneuvers should work out fine. Paying off old debts brings peace of mind. 
TAURUS tApril 20-May 20): Look for ne\\ horiwns In conquer. but firsl finish lhose projects you have already qaned. Changing hors­es in midstream will not help your relationships or your career. 
GEMINI !MaY 21-June 20): 7\ legal bailie may demand 1oo much time and ener~v. Do nol be 1oo ea,i­ly influence:i by o1her people· s views. Your feelings abou1 a parlner may be some" hat obsessive. If nec­essary, seek counseling.
SCOTT ADAMS 
CANCER !June 21-Julv 22): Use your leisure lime constructively. 

r-----------------------,0~----------------------~
> 
An insurance matter in\·oh·in~ \'our 
~

IT CONVERTS E-1"'\AIL 
SOMEBODY ('1\lGHT WAN\ 
home or car desen·es prompt-atten­.!: 
u 
tion. Do something nic~ for loved

INTO Mt>.NI\GER. BABBLE. 
\0 READ MY MESSAGES. 
ones.

NOC>ODY CAN INTERCEPT 
IT COULD AND MAYBE 
LEO (luh 23-Au~. 221: Analvz­
-~ 
., 
ing why ymi feel h~T,lmed in he.lps

AND DECODE MY PRIVATE 
~ 
11APPEN! YOU SHOULD
U> 
vou make constru.ctiv~ chan!-!cs.

""ESSAGE5 WITI-IOUT THE 
Stick to con~CJYati,-~ mcth,)ds \\·here
CARRY PEPPER 



JEANE DIXON 
money manag·emcnt 1." concerned. A 
bolder approach is advised in 
romance. 
VIRGO (Aug 2.1-Sept 22): Conducling business behind closed doors will produce a nice pavoff. Others will nol bcnefil from know­ing your secrets. l:le discreel. Refuse 
to let a partner's extravagance 
undermine your long-term financial security. 
LIBRA (Sepl. 23-0cl. 22): Oth­ers arc bowled over by your charm. Avoid laking advantage of their trusl. Someone's hard luck slory could have holes in il. Protect your 
resources. 
SCORPIO (Ocl. 23-Nov. 21): A solulion is found when you go back to square one. Clear away the clutter so that you can concentrate on essential'>. Your understanding nature attracts someone you would like to know better. 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21 ): A long-cherished dream could become a reality. Your financial ac­umen turns up seYeral wonderful buys. A business breakthrough comes about thanks lo key personnel. 
CAPRICORN iDee. 22-Jan. 19): A friend or relative offers to put you in 10uch with 1he righl people. The liming is perfec1 1 You oulwil your competitors. Resolve to share a financial bonus with your mentor. Check om car prices. 
AQUARIUS (Jan 20-Feb. 18): Suppon will come from people a1 a distance. Your ESP steers vou in the righl direction. Group activities are favored tonight Wear something funny or glamorous to a costume party. 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): It your daily routine is too tiring, reor­ganize for greater efficiency~ Mod­craie exercise will energize you. Take adYalllage of an oppo1tunity 10 get addilional education or training. 

{_ 
DILBERT 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 
1 Soup order 4 Is afflicted w1th 7 Long-range 
weapons 12 Genetic letters 13 --~ National 
Accelerator Laboratory 15 Ult1mate ObJect 16 Cases for a zoo vet? 18 Popular Handel composition 
19 Whence the phrase "God save the King" 
20 Conductor Anderson et al 22 Start of a Caesar quote 23 More: Prefix 24 Scottish headwarmer 
I INVENTED A NEW DATA ENCR'l'PTION PROGRM'\ CALLED P.I-\.B. WHICH STANDS FOR POINI'H1AIR.ED BOSS. 
KEY. 
5PR.AY IN CA5E

WHO WOULD 
~ 
5UPERMOD£LS

WANT TO 
TRY TO KI5S

REAO YOUR 
YOU.

MESSAGES? 
s&A Cune 58 Phone a rock group? 
&O "Island of the Blue Dolphins author Scott 
61 La Scala production 62 Literary 
comp1lat1on 63 Portends 64 Proteus's 
domain 65 Prefix with fuel 
DOWN 
1 NAACP magazine. with "The" 
2 Loosen. as a corset 3 Of the center of 
the hand 4 Recover s Tentacle 
6 Punier 7 Summer problem for 

26 Skiing gold 43 Pres. advisory 52 Area under
Eskimos? medalist Tommy group Arafars control 
a Bluesman Robert 54 Stack
28 Itinerary abbr 46 Old Colt Johnny 9 Pub seat 30 McKinley's 47 Grand theft. for 
55 Biblical scribe 10 Cold war 
assassin example 32 Fisherman·s 56 Kind of ruleplane 
48 Spider

catch?
11 Highway 
51 Former Cinc~nnati 57 Stir 

Red Chris 59 The end 13 Run 
noblemen 
35 ·· pin lr' 36 Brilliant 
14 "That explams 

Answers to any three clues in this puzzle 17 Rheumatisms 38 Show stoppers? 
are available by touch-tone p~1one 

21 Castigate 39 Foxy 1-900-420-5656 (75c per m1nute) 23 Poker holdings 41 Ophthalmolo­Annual subscnptions are available for the 25 Sigmund·s gists· best of Sunday crosswords from the last 
daughter equipment 50 years· 1-888-7 ACROSS 
Celebrate a friend's birthday with a special Observer add. 
27 Bosnian 28 Scottish explorer John 29 Pennsylvanla·s 
~-Mountains 31 Dress 34 UltraviOlet ray 
absorber 35 Lamenting one 37 Corn oil brand 39 Man of La 
Mancha 40 Beer mug with a 
hinged lid 42 M1tigate 44 Soph., jr and sr. 45 Back talk 49 Chatter so Parts o'f a Road 
& Track course 52 Dead duck 53 Poison remedy ss W1thout much 
trouble 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 


page 20 
• MEN's SOCCER 
1 · h { h {
rlS 0 OS 
Badgers in home finale 
By JOE CAVATO Sports Writer 
This Halloween evening the Wisconsin Badgers will meet the Notre Dame men's soccer team at Alumni field where the Irish have been stingy with giv­

-ing away treats, and goals, as they have a perfect record un­der the Dome with every win coming being a shutout. Coach Mike Berticelli's squad has enjoyed a 6-0-2 mark at home this season behind the excellent defense and the strong play .of keeper Greg Velho. The match against the defending national champions marks the final home game of the season. Overall the squad is 10-4-2 but is coming ofT a tough road trip in which they went 1-2 in Big East play. The Irish dropped games at Hutgers and Villanova before senior captain Tony Capasso came up with the winning goal in an overtime tri­umph of Georgetown. 

Last week's action places Notre Dame second in Big East standings just behind the Red Storm of St. John's. With only two regular season games remaining, the Domers can't afford to look past anyone, especially Wisconsin. Senior defender and co-captain Peter Cansler describes the impor­tance of tonight's contest. 
"Right now this game is huge, and might even be bigger than our game with Boston College (in the regular season finale). If we win it will give us a good shot at getting an at-large bid On the NCAA tournament), in case something goes wrong in the Big East tournament." 
The 23rd ranked Badgers will certainly provide a stiff test as they seem to have Notre Dame's number. They lead the overall series 7-1-3. 
The cheese heads have won three in a row against the home team which includes two shutouts, 3-0 last season and 2­0 in 1994. The only ND victory came three presidents ago in 1987,4-1. Considering the number of goals Wisconsin has scored in the previous contests, coach Berticelli's team will concentrate on defense. 
"We're going to focus on de­fense," Cansler continued. "The last two games they got 
• 

vs, Navy Novenber2, 8 a.m. 
vs. Ohio State November 1, 7:30p.m. 
... 
vs. Wisconsin 
October 31, 7:30 p.m. at Pittsburgh November 2, 2 p.m. 
Big East Championships ~ November 2 

aJ •LaRussa named Manager of the Year 
\_ 
vs. Michigan Novenber 1, 7 p.m. ~ see page 15 Soccer at St. Francis 
•• •Texas football under investigations
~ ,..~; ~ 
., ~ 

Today, 3 p.m. see page 17 
sc: 
Volleyball vs. Rose 
. Today, 7 p.m . 
Sd: ~ 



