
--------, 
~ 
Friday, May 17, 1996 • Vol. XXVII No. 136 THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
'It's the end of the world as we know it' 

NO Commencement marks transition's end for seniors 
By BRAD PRENDERGAST Nt·w' F.Jiror 
Four years ago, the mnmbers of the dass of IIJ'J6 were struggling through fmshman dwm. calling their professors "l'rolilssor," and taking earn to disguise tlwir drinking habits from their parents 
Four years later, this year's seniors lu1ve struggled through tlwir last GRE essay, grown to calling their professors ".lack." and taken their parents out for a beer. 
This wnekend, the transition from col­lege freshman to college graduate conws to an end as 1,801 undergradu­atns will receive their degrees at the University's 151 st Commencement exercises Sunday. 244 mastllr's and doctoral students in the Graduate School will have degrees conferred upon them at the eeremony, as will 211 master's students in the College of Busirwss t\!lministration and 191 stu­dmJts in tlw l.aw School. The ceremony is schmluled to begin at 2 p.m. in the .Joyctl Ctmter. 
Friday, May 17 

11:30a.m. Play: AMidsummer Night's Dream 
Dedicated to Mandy Abdo '96 1p.m. Nurse's Pinning Ceremony (SMC)3p.m. Arts and letters Honors Convocation 3:30p.m. Degree Candidates Assemble (SMC) 3:55p.m. Academic Procession ~SMC)4p.m. Baccalaureale Mass ( MC)4p.m. Notre Dame Chorale 6:30p.m. Lawn Concert 7:30p.m Senior Rece~llon (SMC)B-10p.m. Graduale Sc ool Recepllon 
Saturday, May 18 
"" ~ 

9:30a.m. ROTC Commissioning10a.m. Sending Ceremony lor Volunteer Service 11:30a.m. Phi Bela Kappa lnstallallon 12 p.m. Commencemenl (SMC) 1~.m. Shenanigans
1: 0-3:30 p.m. Hispanic Recognition Ceremony1:30-3:30 p.m. Asian Gradualion Ceremony2p.m. Reception ~SMC)2-3:30 p.m. University eremony2-4 p.m London Program Graduation Tea 4:10p.m. Degree Candidates Assemble lor Procession 4:30p.m. Academic Procession 5-6:30 p.m. Baccalaureate Mass 

Sunday, May 19 

Seniors savored their memories and looked forward to graduation in their last week on campus. 
''I'm excited and nervous," said Larry Mullen, a Stanford Hall senior from Northfield. Minn. "But I'd have to say that, right now, I'm more excited than nervous. 
·····-··-··-~--------......._... 
9-10:30 a.m. African American Graduallon Washington Hall 9:30a.m. MBA Program Diploma Ceremony Hesburgh library 10a.m. Law School Commencement Pra&er Service Basillica 
12:30 p.m. Dlstrib. of Bachelor and Master lplomas JACC North Dome 1:30p.m. Academic Procession JACC North Dome 2p.m. Commencement and Conferring of Degrees JACC South Dome 4:30p.m. Law School Diploma Ceremony Hesburgh library 
The Observer/ Mike Ruma. Dave Murphy 
The blossoming flowers and the sunset over God 
see ND GRADS I page 8 Quad provide some final moments of tranquility. 
··· --washington Hall 
Church of loretto 
Washin2ton Hall Angela theltic Facility Angela Atheltic Facility Angela Athellic Facility Basiliica Main Building Century Center CCE 
JACC South Dome 
washinWon Hall Debarto o101 LeMans CourtyardStepan Center Washington Hall Snite Auditorium leMans Courtyard CCE LaFortune Ballroom JACC Gates 8 & 1 0 JACC JACC South Dome 
~ . ' 
:\i::f!N"l~'"!;":'.:lf\<.. ,~,. . 
• NOTRE DAME VALEDICTORIAN 

Choice of service suits McCaffrey 
By JAMIE HEISLER Associate News Editor 

Where would you expect to find the class vale­dictorian soon after graduation? 
Few would expect the answer to be Nepal, but Notre Dame valedietorian Theresa McCaffrey has chosen to serve after college as a Jesuit vol­unteer teaching at a junior college in Katmandu. 
"Jesuit Volunteers International is a pretty well-known service program which I found through the Center for Social Concerns," she said. 
McCaffrey, who finished with a 3.932 GPA, will put to use a physics/philosophy double major at the junior college by teaching physics. She will serve in Nepal for two years before continuing on to graduate school. 
Service has been an interest of McCaffrey throughout college including participation in the Appalachian Seminar, Urban Plunge, and a 
see MCCAFFREYI page 8 
SMCsays farewell to 375 grads 
By MAUREEN HURLEY Saint Mary's N=s Editor 
Saturday afternoon, 375 women donning caps and gowns will enter LeMans Courtyard as Saint Mary's stu­dents, and will leave as alum­nae. 
Proud families, friends and members of the Saint Mary's community will join the Class of 1996 for the 149th Commencement Exercises May 18 at noon. 
Of the 375 degree candi­dates, 261 will graduate with a bachelor of arts degree, 65 with a bachelor of science degree, 40 with a bachelor of business administration degree, seven with a bachelor of fine arts degree and two with a bachelor of music degree. 
Addressing the newly-hood­ed degree candidates at the May 5 Honors Convocation Ceremony, Associate Professor of Religious Studies Joseph lncandela said, "May you always be able to look back and say of these years 'wasn't that a time!'-a sacred time 
see SMC GRADS I page I 0 

• SAINT MARY'S VALEDICTORIAN 
Hodapp credits effort for success 
By CAROLINE BLUM Saint Mary's Editor 
Her friends describe her as bubbly, energetic, and dedicated. Her schoolmates reeognize her as the crazy aerobics instructor. And Saturday, the Class of 1996 will salute her as their valedictorian . 
When Susan Hodapp received the news that she was selected as the Class of 1996's valedictorian, she was utterly surprised . 
She never set a goal to be valedictorian. She simply set a goal to always do the best she could do. And for Hodapp, her best resembh1d a 3.97 after seven semesters at Saint Mary's. 
"I really was shocked when I received the letter," Hodapp explained. "Being valedictorian had never really crossed my mind. I just wanted to do well. I always dedicate myself to whatever I do, it's a combination of my personality and what I learned from my family." 
As the second-youngest of seven children, Hodapp's family has always played a significant role in her life. 
"I would watch what my brothers and sisters 
see HODAPP/ page 10 


Inside News ... 
Mandy Abdo returns to campus 
page3 

A look back at the 1995-96 year 
pageS 

O'Meara retires as provost; Hatch takes office 
page 

r 
page 2 
• INSIDE COlUMN 


Much Deserved Thanks 
Almost exactly eight years ago to the day, I was a cocky South Junior High eighth grad­er, absolutely skating through the final weeks of school and basking in the beauty of a glorious­ly warm and sunny May. 
Of all my subjects during that final year, I 
probably loved Emeritus "Reading" best of all. It ------­wasn't a class that required a whole lot of effort and I loved it. Words were my friends, and little did I know that using them would eventually become my only marketable skill. 
But then one day, our teacher Mrs. Kunnen explained that all eighth graders would write a graduation speech and the best three would be delivered at the actual ceremonies. Unfortunately, this wasn't an optional thing -it was a class assignment to be hated and feared. 
In retrospect, there's really very little that was remarkable about that ugly little speech I wrote. But I guess the thing that still sticks in my mind about it was a quote that I ran­domly used to get the ball rolling: "Ingratitude is sharper than a serpent's tooth." It's Shakespeare, and to this day, I'm still not sure of which of his works it came from-I just sort of pulled it out of the encyclopedia because it sounded good. But looking back on things today. that quote applies to my time at Notre Dame more than it ever did at South Junior High. 
There's a ton of people who deserve to be recognized for their friendship and support over these past four years. But above all, I want to single out my parents and thank them for everything they've done. 
It's not just a case of thanking them for putting me through school, or putting up with me when I'm a pain in the ass or even helping me with science fair projects or college appli­cations. I'm thankful for all of that -but the thing that sets them apart in my mind is the way that they were always there for me. 
Like the day of their first "official" visit during the fall of my freshman year when I was a bewildered freshman, pretty sure that I hated Notre Dame. They came out on a Sunday afternoon and just talked to me. That alone didn't make things instantly better, but it helped. 
There were countless other times when just getting their sage advice made a lot of differ­ence. Like Sophomore year when I panicked the night before trying decide my major. And even this year when there were days when I wondered what would come first -the end of my term as Observer editor or my nervous breakdown. 
I know I'm not the only one with parents like these -in fact I'm sure most seniors can tell similar, if not better stories than mine. But I really don't know if I've ever given them the credit they deserve for all that they've done for me. My Dad jokingly gives me a hard time about this kind of stuff all the time, say­ing "You'll owe me until you're 90," (usually after I ask to borrow money.) Most times, I make a crack about how I'll be there to feed him his mush someday at the old folks home. 
But all kidding aside, he's right. I don't think I'll ever be able to thank them enough. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 



News  
Jaime Heisler  Production  
Brad Prendergast  Tara Grieshop  
Sports  Lab Tech  
Tim Sherman  Dave Murphy  
Tom Schlidt  Accent  
Graphics  Joey Crawford  
Tom Roland  Viewpoint  
Chris Mullins  Meaghan Smith  

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday exccpr during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of [he Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
The Observer • INSIDE 

Andrews elected first female fellow 
Kathleen Andrews, vice chair of Universal Press Syndicate and chief executive officer of Andrews and McMeel of Kansas City, Mo., has been elected a Fellow of the University of Notre Dame, the first woman to serve on the 12-member group that is the University's core governing body. 
A 1959 graduate of Notre Dame College in Cleveland, Andrews earned a master's degree from the University of Notre Dame in 1962. She was elected to the University's Board of Trustees in 1993, having previously served on the advisory council for Note Dam's Institute for Church Life. In 1981, in memory of her late husband, James Andrews, a 1961 Notre Dame graduate, she established the Andrews Memorial Scholarship Fund, which under­writes student summer service projects in conjunction with the University's alumni clubs. 
Andrews will be one of the six lay Fellows of the University, who serve along with six priests of the Congregation of the Holy Cross. The Fellows exercise all power and authority granted by the University's'charter, but delegate much of that authority to the trustees. 
Mooney to join provost office 

Carol Mooney, professor of law in the University of Notre Dame Law School, was elected vice president and associ­ate provost of the University by its Board of Trustees. 
Mooney's responsibilities in the provost's office will include tenure and promotion matters; strategies for facul­ty recruitment and professional educa­tion. issues. 
A member of the law school faculty since 1980, Mooney received the law school's teacher of the year award in 1983. She serves on the provost's advisory committee and the Laetare Medal and Notre Dame Award selection committee, and has been a member of the Academic Council, the Committee on the Protection of Human Subjects, the editorial board of the Notre Dame Press, the Faculty/Student Committee of Women of Notre Dame, and the graduate admissions committee of the University's Kroc Institute for International Peace Studies. 
Mooney graduated from Saint Mary's College in 1972 and received her J.D. degree from the Notre Dame Law School in 1977, earning the Colonel William J. Hoynes award for the highest grade point average in her class. She was an associate attorney in the Washington D.C. firm of Jones, Day, Reavis and Pogue from 1977-78. 
Merz to head graduate research 
James Merz, Frank Freimann Professor of Electrical Engineering at the University of Notre Dame, was elected vice president for graduate studies and research at the University by its Board of Trustees. 
In this role, Merz will be responsible for the develop­ment and state of all postbaccalaureate work in the University, and for the development and administration of all research conducted by the University and its faculty. 
Merz has published over 300 papers and holds five patents. 
Merz graduated from Notre Dame with a bachelor's degree in physics in 1959 and attended the University of Gottingen in Germany as a Fulbright Fellow. He at­tended Harvard University as both a Woodrow Wilson and Danforth Fellow, earning his master's degree in 1961 and his doctorate in 1967. 

Merz is a fellow of the American Physical Society and the Institute of Electrical Engineers (IEEE), and cur­rently serves as secretary of the Electron Device Society of IEEE. He is a member of the American Association for the Advancement of Science, the Materials Research Society, and the Society for Values in Higher Education. 
Friday, May 17, 1996 
• 
NAMES IN THE NEWS 

• 
As they prepare to undertake volunteer service com­mitments around the globe, approximately 11 percent of the class of 1996 will be honored at the University's an­nual Volunteer Send-Off Saturday, May 18 at 10 a.m. in Washington Hall. These seniors will work in the United States and abroad in a variety of service programs, including the Holy Cross Associates, the Alliance for Catholic Education, the Jesuit Volunteer Corps, Teach for America and the Peace Corps. 

• 
Ten students received Student Activities Leadership Awards from the University of Notre Dame. The awards are given to students who best exemplify the spirit of Notre Dame in activities that promote the welfare of the University and its extended community. The recipients were: seniors Jeff Catalina, Michelle Crouch, Michael Fleisch, Kevin Kuwik, Katie Lawler, David Sullivan, and Metty Vithayathil; juniors Mike Flood and Megan Pater; and Notre Dame Law School student Joy Marie Smith. 

• 
Retired General Carl Vuono, former Army chief of staff, will address the 1996 Commissioning Ceremony for University of Notre Dame ROTC students at 9:30 


a.m. Saturday at the Joyce Center. 
• 
Roland Smith, Jr., executive assistant to the presi­dent at the University of Notre Dame since 1988, will leave his post July 31 to become associate provost of Rice University. In addition to his duties as an advisor to University President Father Edward Malloy, Smith also has directed the Notre Dame Urban Institute for Community and Educational Initiatives, chaired the University Committee on Cultural Diversity and taught as an associate professor of sociology. 

• 
Three Notre Dame students earned Fulbright teach­ing assistantship grants for the 1996-97 academic year. Bridget Biggs, a senior majoring in psychology and German, will teach in Germany; Simon McLain, a senior majoring in government and German, will teach in Austria; and Nancy Talbot, a French major. will teach in France. John Hosinski, a history major, is an alternate for a Fulbright grant to study political science in Poland. 

• 
University of Notre Dame senior government majors Ryan Montoya and Nancy Rocha were selected to participate in the Woodrow Wilson Program in Public Policy and International Affairs this summer at Princeton University. The seven-week program is offered to students of color who are interested in pursu­ing careers in public and international affairs. 

• 
James Seckinger, professor of law at the University of Notre Dame, is the 1996 recipient of the American Law Institute-American Bar Association's Francis Rawle Award for outstanding contributions to the field of post­admission legal education. A member of the Notre Dame Law School faculty since 1974, Seckinger also served as director of the National Institute for Trial Advocacy (NITA), an American Bar Association program headquartered at Notre Dame, from 1979-94. 

• 
Alan Gunn, a member of the Notre Dame Law School faculty since 1989, was appointed the John N. Matthews Professor of Law. A graduate of Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute and Cornell Law School, Gunn specializes in tax law, contracts, insurance, law and economics and torts. The John N. Matthews Chair in Law, established in 1967 by Notre Dame trustee Donald Matthews in memory of his father, is Notre Dame's oldest endowed professorship. 

• 
Donald Thomas McNeill, a Notre Dame advisory council member, former adjunct professor, honorary de­gree recipient, and father of Father Donald McNeill, director of the University's Center of Social Concerns, died May 7. He was 88. McNeill received an honorary doctor of laws degree from Notre Dame in 1963 and served on the College of Arts and Letters Advisory Council from 196 7 until his death. 



The AccuWeather<~~> forecast for noon, Friday, May 17. 
AccuWeather• forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 
Os 

COLD WARM STATIONARY 
C 1996 AccuWeather, Inc. 

Pressure ~ 
H L El~rr!J 0(Z]E3~ ~:CJ. 
HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STOAMS FLUAAIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT CLOUDY Cli>UP'l' Vta As«Jciatea Press 
Mington Hts 55 33 Columbus 50 40 Mtamt 83 7fi Atlanta 64 37 Dallas 81 40 Minneapolis 58 
31 Baltimore 72 67 Denver 59 30 New Orleans 71 
53 Boston 64 45 Los Angeles 96 66 New York 61 
48 

Chicago 52 35 Medicine Hat 45 40 Stamford 65 47
Via Assoaatsd Press GraphjcsNet 
C 1996 AccuWeather, Inc. 



j_ 

Friday, May 17, 1996 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Return to campus for Abdo will be 'bittersweet' 
By KRIST! KOLSKI 
Senior StaiTWriter 
Mandy Abdo would just like to take her nnw van and go out with her friends. It's a simple request from the Notre Dame senior. 
But a ear aeeidcnt on Nov. II, l1~aving Abdo without the usn of her arms and legs, has made even simple requests hard to fulfill. 
For six months. Abdo has battled paralysis and the eom­plicat.ions that followml. 
Doctors said to expect the worst, but hope for the best. Even though some doctors questioned whether she would ever gel of'f the respirator, Ahdo expeeted mueh more. 
After almost four months on a ventilator, Abdo finally regained the strength to breath on her own. She also regained her appetite. 
Yet, these are only small stnps compared to what Abdo expects to do. 
"We all think I am going to 
• see Support, page 16 
walk. I'll be sad if I don't. There is no reason why I shouldn't walk again," Abdo said. 
Abdo sustained a C-5 injury, which is the lifth cervical ver­tebrae. 
ller vertebrae was stretched, not severed, allowing for the possibility that the spine will heal and that she will regain 

O'LAUGHLIN AUDITORIUM SAINT MARY'S COLLEGE 
SOUTH BEND 
Wednesday, June 5 7:30pm 

$17.00 Reserved ($2 student/senior discount). Available at Saint Mary's Box Office. Info aCharge by Phone 219/284-4626. 
Please join us in support ofthe 
Centerfor the Homeless by 
bringing a donation ofnon­perishable food to the concert. 
movement in her arms and legs. 
"Either by my own volition and the support of my family and friends or by some rned­ic;tl procedure where they give you a shot, I'll walk again," she said. "1 think they'll have an answer for it before too long." 
In the meantime, Abdo just might beat medical tech­nology with the progress she has made in therapy. 
Creating a weightless envi­ronment using a sling to hold her elbow and wrist 

several inches in Mandy Abdo, seen with boyfriend Bill Shean, class of 1995, returned to campus for the air, Abdo has Commencement, following months of recovery from a paralyzing accident. 

moved her arm from side to side and forward and back. 
When therapists placed a pen in the brace on her wrist, Abdo was able to write her name and even wrote a Jetter to her father asking him not to smoke anymore. 
"That was a good day," she remembers. 
Using electrodes attached to different arm muscles, Abdo also demonstrated the ability to drive a remote control car. The pronator muscle acts as forward, supernator as back­ward, biceps as left, shoulder as right. 
"By moving those muscles I move the car," Abdo said. "I have to get the muscles to move alone and together." 
More importantly than mov­ing the car, Abdo moved mus­cles that were in the C-6 to 7 range of her vertebrae, which is below the point of her injury. 
"Every time I could do some­thing new I would e-mail or call my roommates," she said. "And instantaneously the entire campus knew what was going on." 

Roommates Erin Lyons, Dawn Kasperski and Pam Kennedy always took the news as a reason to celebrate. 
As Abdo returns to campus to participate in the graduation ceremonies, she hopes people realize she has not changed. 
"Don't be scared. I'm still the same and if I could slap you I would. I can't move but I'm trying really hard and pretty soon I'll be able to smack all of you," Abdo said. 
She views the return as bit­tersweet. The weekend will be sweet, because she will be reunited with roomates and friends. 
But the weekend also repre­sents final goodbyes from those same people and the uni­versity that brought them together. 
"Physically and emotionally it will be hard because my friends are going to be mov­ing," she said. With several friends going to Chicago, one of her roommates moving to South Korea with the military, and another one returning home to Tennessee, Abdo laments the return to her own home in Minnesota. 
"Everybody is going some place but me. I'm coming horne and practicing moving my arms," Abdo said. "When you look at it that way it is really trivial." 
But Abdo probably has more challenges ahead than most other graduates. 
In addition to working on moving her arms and legs, she hopes to have her trache removed. 
Currently, Abdo has a tiny trache insert because she still gets congested and the opening is used to remove excess 
see ABDO/ page I 6 



THE POINTE 

rt oftheYear \ ~·~ h s .
arg,e••to t e en10rs 
Becky Bizup
~\}, ~f 

"\+J Luis Castillo Johnny Cruz
~milimillmy9 mmy n~ 
Alejandro Gadala-Marla Tony Garza

!Lru!F®rrttrniiD® !E®~ ~Ir®®illiD 
Veronica Payan Sue Riemann 


AT SAINT JOSEPH 307 East LaSalle South Bend, Indiana 46617 (219) 287-2684 
Undergraduates, 
Graduates, and Professors We want you back and we're willing to give you HALF OFF! 
Come live in the center of it all. 
Great location close to campus. 
call Tarni NOW to lease your new apartment l1orne! 
of/ice hours:  9:00am to 6:00pm  Mon.-Fri.  
1O:OOam to 5:00pm  Satunlay  
closed  Sunday  






Four Years in Review 
~ 
r Friday, May 17, 1996 
r 
t 
r 
~OBSERVER 
r 

3 
"Rita cleared of Fox's 
death"


After nine hours of deliberations, a jury acquitted Notre Dame Law School graduate John Rita of causing the death of Mara Fox on Nov. 13, 1993 while driving drunk. Rita faces a retrial as early as Sept. 1 on a second charge of leaving the scene of an accident. 
Nov. 9, I994 

8 
"Administration changes 

"University clears 
state of Grace" 
9 


Kinder and Farmer" 
Following the 1995­96 academic year, Grace Hall will be 
~OBSERVER 

converted to a per­manent administra­tive office building and, upon conversion, the Main Building will be vacated to under­go a major renova­tion. In spring 1997, Flanner will also be converted in order to provide additional office space. 
April 22, I994 



Editor's Note: Selections were made by members of The Observer News Department. 
Sophomore run­
ning backs Randy · Kinder and Robert Farmer were cleared of any wrongdoing in connection with an alleged assault inci­dent following the Notre Dame-Brigham Young game in October of that year. 

Feb. I, I995 
, page4 
I 
"Homosexual student group denied access" 
After GLND/SMC was prohibited from meeting on campus in January, protests were organized and councils passed resolu­tions calling for official recognition of the group. However, recognition was never granted. Later in the year, the administra­tion created a committee to address gay and lesbian issues. 
Jan.3I, I995 

"Chaves on leave after harassment 
10 
charge" 
r==~::.::O::.::B=S:;:E;::R;::V:;:::;;E-·=···R=-1 Fo_llowing an alle­
i= gat10n of sexual harassment . Associate Professor of Sociology Mark Chaves took officia l leave of his teach­ing duties. Chaves, a tenured profes­sor. was accused of making sexual suggestions to a female undergrad­uate research assistant. 
Jan.25, I996 


friday, May 17, 1996 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS page 5 


Issues ignited controversy throughout year 


The Observer/Mike Ruma In August, the College Football Hall of Fame opened in South Bend with a ceremony in which former Irish player Jim Martin was inducted. 
By BRAD PRENDERGAST 
New\ Editor 
Brimming with controversy, scandal, tragedy, and, yns, nvnn somn occasional euphoria, the 191J!i-9h school year kept the University commu­nity on its tons. 
This past year was 11lled with big headlines and continuml debate, especially when the Ad lloe Committen on Gay and Lesbian Student Nneds advocated the formation of an officially recognized student group. The committee's work was commissioned by Vice President for Studnnt Affairs Patricia O'Hara after campus-wide protests in the spring of 1995 erupted following tlw University's decision to bar Gays and Lesbians at Notre Dam1~ and Saint Mary's College ({;I.ND/SMC) from mnnting on campus. 
But O'llara chosn instead to form a University group for gay and lesbian students, whereby control of tlw group would n~st not with the stu­dm1ts hut with appointed advisnrs. ller dm:ision brought disappointment to many campus student lt1adnrs, including Studnnt Body President .Jonathan Patrick, GLND/SMC presidnnt John Blandford, several membnrs of the ad hoc com­mitlet1, and numnrous membnrs of the Campus Lift~ Council. 
Tlw CI.C was also involved in another year­long dt~bate on campus, as it worked to push through n~solutions advocating a eo-residentiali­ty option for seniors in the intnrest of improving 
relations bntwfHHI genders. But both O'Hara and Scandal also hit Notre Dame when Mark Assistant Vice President of Chaves, an associate professor of 
Studnnt Affairs Bill Kirk1995 96 
sociology, took a leave of absence for said eo-residentiality was not fnasihln at thn prcsnnt ­tinw. O'llara eited the Colloquy for the Year 2000 as one rnason bnhind hnr dt~eision, saying that "the [CI.C'sl resolutions would displace other priorities that emergnd in tlw Colloquy" which had been formed by input from fcu:ulty, administrators and staff. 

In October. nwmhnrs of stwnral student ethnic groups protnstml on Columbus Day against the Main Building's murals of Columbus coming to thP Nt~w World. Calling thn murals "a disgrace" to tlw lwritagP of Natiw Anwrican students, the Nativn Anwriran Students' Assol"iation of Notrn l>anw and otlwr t'lhnir groups demanded that tlw administration remow the murals during thn building's intnrior rmwvation. Thn protest sparkt>d a writtnn war of words hntwnen stu­dtHlts from opposite nnds of thn political spee­trum. 
Aftnr nwPting with thn Univnrsity's officers in Novnmlu~r. O'llara annourH:nd that the murals would rPmain, citing tlwir historical significance to tlw University. Thn Uniw~rsity also dncidml to add a plaqtw with text plaeing the murals "in tlu~ir propnr historical eontnxt," explore the pos­sihility of mtilling some of thn murals, and exhib­it artwork rnprns1~ntative of othnr cultural back­grounds. 
Saint Mary's Collnge had its own sham of' stu­dnnt govnrnnwnt controversy. The executive hoard rrwmhers of' the Hesidence Hall Association resignnd in Novembnr after they dncidml that "a majority of the Hesidence Life stall" haldl consistently shown a lack of support for our agnnda and a lack of respect for us as l1~adnrs." Within days, tBmporary leaders were nlnt:tt~d for HilA. 
The Collngn's president provided the biggest nnws of tlw year for Saint Mary's when he unrwtmend his resignation in April, effective with thn uppointnwnt of a successor. William llil:kny's dncad1~-long term in ollice came to an end lweausn of his desire "to explore the options that ehang1~ off1~rs." Taken by surprise, the Coll1~gn community has begun its search for a successor by first determining the qualifications needed by the ollice. 
Notre Dame senior Mandy Abdo was left without movement in her arms and legs following a weather-related accident in November. Though her condi­tion was critical in the immedi­ate days after the accident, the senior class rallied around its classmate, organizing raffles and play performances-including a production of Shakespeare's "Midsummer Night's Dream" this wnekend -in which the pro­cends went to defray Abdo's medical costs. 
Another car accident involving a Notre Dame student was morn tragic. Hob Adams was killed in the early morning hours of October 13 when he lost control of his car and crashed into a tree. Adams was deeply involved in Notre Dame activities, serving as Music Commissioner for Student Union Board and as Music Editor for The Observer. His death was a severe loss for those who knew and worked with him. 
the spring semester following an aile­
gation of sexual harassment filed by 

one of his female undergraduate research assistants, who said that Chaves linked her academic success to thnir relationship. 
A senior finance class fell victim to widespread cheating in November during a take-home exam, in which allegedly 100 students worked together at the College of Business Administration com­puter lab. After investigating the matter, the col­lege dncided to reduce the grades of a number of students by one or two letters. Several students nunked the course because of the reductions, and were forced to take a business ethics course to remedy the situation. 
Construction also continued to be a big story on earnpus. The renovation of the stadium began after thn Navy game in early November and pro­grossed throughout the winter and spring. ScafTolding was a common sight around the Main Building as its exterior renovation continued during the school year. The construction of the new dorms south of South Dining Hall and the renovation of the architecture building also pro­gressnd. 
A ehapter in the history of another edifice drew to a close when the University announced that Flanner Hall would join its brother tower Grace in being converted from a residence hall to an office complex at the end of the 1996-97 school year. Current Flanner residents will be moved to Siegfried and Knott Halls, whose students will move to two new dorms adjacent to O'Neill and Keough Halls. 
Notre Dame's national prominence in football extended to the local level last fall. The College Football Hall of Fame relocated and opened in South Bend in September. At the opening cere­mony, former Irish lineman Jim Martin was inducted into the hall. 
And, finally, 1995-96 saw the return of nation­al champion status to Notre Dame athletics. The women's soccer team, in a three-overtime effort, downed the University of Portland 1-0, returning the glow to the No. 1 sign atop Grace Hall in December. 

In April, Saint Mary's President William Hickey announced his resigna­tion, effective upon the appointment of a successor. 

Friday, May 17,1996 
EVERYONE LOOKS FORWARD TO 


'FRIDAYS 
4730 N. Grape Road • 271-8443 
Soath&nd 

·CongratuiCltions Graduates 

.. .plus our Daily lunch specials, 4 big TV screens, and many dart 
Bacon, cheese and tax extra. Limit I coupon per customer p~r visit. Not valid with any other offer. This coupon is valid at South Bend, Mishawaka, Niles, Benton Harbor or St. Joe 
stores. Expires June 30, 1996.
boards! 

Friday, May 17, 1996 
The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS page 7 


O'Meara relinquishes role of provost to Hatch 


By BRAD PRENDERGAST 
Nows Editor 
When Timothy O'Meara be­canw provost for the University in 11J7H, he 
eame from the mathmnatics department in which 1~xisted a tradition of rotating the dnpartrnent chairmanship among the pro res so r s every few years. It was an idea horn out of the belief that a frPsh person in that posi­tion lwlpnd nnsurn that leader­ship did not stagnate and that tnadwrs who were pulled into administrative roles could n~turn to teaching relatively soon. 
So upon accepting tlw provost­ship, O'Meara told then­University President Theodore lleshurgh that lw would hold the position for only four years. 
Eighteen y1mrs later, O'Meara is still tlw provost, a title he will finally relinquish this summer wlum he steps down June 30. It has lwm1 a tenure that O'Meara has enjoy1~d immensely. 
"In IIJH2, [after I had com­pleted my four-year term as provost, I Father llesburgh IL'ikml me stay on and I decided to do so," said O'Meara. "And I'm very glad I did." 
As provost, O'Meara's is the top academic official at the Uni­versity. and during his time in that offiee, his background as a faculty member has been influ­ential in his decision-making. 
"I relied on my extensive ex­p1'1rience as a faculty member to figun~ out what had to be done," O'Meara said. "Coming from the mathematics department's roots, I figured that the most important thing to do in this job was to hire strong faculty, to promote strong faculty, and to give all faculty the opportunity to make really creative contribu­tions in their own disciplines." 
Making contributions to one's field actual serves two purposes, said O'Meara, because it pro­vides for the important balance between research and teaching that ean sometimes become skewed at a major university. Hather than impeding teaching, rnsearch actually augments it, he said. 
"Your attitude toward the sub­ject -not your knowledge -is very different if you've made cn~ative contributions to your field, if you have made discover­ies and you are alive with that and the adrenaline flows," he said. "There is a difference between a teacher who has learned all his physics, for example, out of a book and one who has actually sensed the ex­citement of discovering physics." 
The imbalance comes if a professor decides to completely focus on one side or the other, he added. "Our professors must be engaged in both, and then their research will enhance their teaching." 
To ensure that professors have the time to delve into their fields of study while maintaining a high level of instruction, O'Meara and the University have been working to imple­ment a section of the Colloquy for the Year 2000, whereby 150 new faculty members will be added without increasing the size of the student body. 
"This is the kind of university that we should be, where you have the interaction between teaching and research," O'Meara said. 

It is projects such as this that give O'Meara the job satisfaction that has made him want to stay as provost for 18 years. 
"What I love about this job is seeing things come to fruition," he said. "For example, I didn't come into this job with any idea about salaries at all. There was a lot of discussion as to which should come first -whether if the salaries were to go up then the quality of the faculty would go up, or the other way around. We finally decided to proceed to raise faculty salaries, and, in­deed, the quality of the faculty was rising rapidly. So I saw some of my actions, my ideas, bearing fruit." 
As the top academic officer at Notre Dame, O'Meara has re­mained aware of how the Uni­versity's academic programs have compared with peer insti­tutions. 
"My primary desire is to make sure we're making real contri­butions here, whether it be in theology, English, or mathemat­ics," he said. "But when you do your line work, you have to tell people that you're doing these things." 
After O'Meara, 68, departs from office, he intends to take a look at two academic areas that have interested him for awhile. 
"First, I want to reflect on all these changes that have oc­curred at Notre Dame during a very exciting and turbulent time in the history of the Church," he said. "I also want to explore some new area of mathematics. 
That and I want to visit the grandkids." 
Hatch cites themes for advance of school 
By JAMIE HEISLER 
Associate News Editor 
Creativity and innovation are two of the characteristics which incoming provost Nathan Hatch believes will improve the intellectual 
~:~~L~~:~; 
years. 
Hatch, who previ­ously served as the dean of the grad­uate school, brings with him a broadly based understanding of diverse aspects of University academic life which he has obtained over the past 21 years at the University. 
"It's not as if I'm someone who only knows graduate education. I don't think you can be here without realizing how central the undergradu­ate experience is," he said. 
Revitalizing undergraduate education is one of the four themes which Hatch feels should be developed by the University, along with the development of a faculty com­mitted to teaching and learn­ing, the development of cen­ters of excellence, and a com­mitment to increased financial aid. 
Each of these he feels can be accomplished as long as the University refuses to believe that it is already at its best. "We need to sustain and expand the trajectory that we're now on, but in order to do that, a number of things are critical. We have to make sure that we're not compla­cent and that we strive for excellence," he said. 


Hecruiting the right faeulty is one of the best ways to ensure this excellence, according to Hatch. "We need those that f1spouse values and have a commitment to teach­ing and learning," he said. "This is important because academic quality is in the hands of the faculty." 
To complement the develop­ment of the faculty, Hatch believes that the University should concentrate on those areas of academia in which it already excels, or its centers of excellence. "We have to make sure that we're very good at certain things," he said. "We can't be good at everything so we have to learn where it is appropriate to con­centrate resources." 
The devotion of more resources to financial aid, an initiative the University has already undertaken, is neces­sary to the recruitment of top students, according to Hatch. "Notre Dame has increased significantly its financial aid, but we don't compare with some of our peers," he said. "Financial aid is our long term goal." 

~-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 
page 8 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS Friday, May 17, 1996 
McCaffrey 
continued from page 1 
Cultural Diversity Seminar. She has also served as sail commissioner for the Big Sister/ Big Brother program. as a volunteer at the Center for the Homeless, and as a Howard Hall eucharistic minister. 

McCaffrey

T h e Catholic character of the University, including the tradi­tion of service, was in part why McCaffrey made the decision to attend Notre Dame. 
"There was definitely some family involvement in Notre Dame, including my father and grandfather, but I knew I didn't have to come here. I chose Notre Dame because it had a great mix of excellent acade­mics, a feeling of community, and a sense of spirituality. It balanced those together well," she said. 
Besides service, the majority of McCaffrey's extracurricular activities were devoted to activ­ities related to her physics major. She was a member of the student council for the College of Science, the University honor code commit­tee, the physics honor code committee and the physics club. 
Academically, research has occupied a large part of her time. She studied experimental high energy physics as a research assistant to Associate Professor Mitch Wayne. 
With such an extensive back­ground in physics, one might not expect her to follow her col­lege research with two years of teaching in Nepal, but McCaffrey's reasoning is in part explained in her commence­ment address, which will be given on Sunday. 
In her speech, she will com­pare the graduates' lives at Notre Dame to the analogy of the cave given in Plato's Republic. "[In the analogy) a man comes from the darkness of the cave to the splendor of the sun... As graduates, it is our responsibility to return to the cave and teach those who haven't seen the sun," she said. 
McCaffrey was chosen as valedictorian from a pool of 11 top-ranking graduating seniors on the basis of her commence­ment address as well as recom­mendations from her Colleges. 
The pool of potential valedic­torians was created based on those who had GPAs above the rounded cutoff point of 3. 94. According to Sister Kathleen Cannon, associate provost, these students were then invit­ed to submit a sample com­mencement address. In addi­tion, the deans of each stu­dent's College were asked to submit evaluations of the indi­viduals. 
While deserving, McCaffrey is humble in her response. "I am honored, but I also feel it could be any of us. It's all a little overwhelming," she said. 
327 Lincolnway West, South Bend 


ND Grads 
continued from page 1 
''I'm going to miss the football weekends a lot," added Mullen, who will be working for Andersen Consulting in Minneapolis upon graduation. "The atmosphere, the mystique that comes with the games ­it's just incredible." 
Laura Merritt sought to put the coming weekend in its proper perspective. "It's the beginning of something, not the end. That's why we call it 'Commencement,"' said Merritt, ~ho will be working with preg­nant teenagers in Chicago in the fall. "It's the beginning of experiencing the world that we've been sheltered from for four years." 
Marcy Forgey considered Commencement a time of intro­spection. "Commencement is a moment to sit back and think about the time here" said Forgey, who will be volunteer­ing in Madagascar this fall as part of the Peace Corps. 
Mary Ann Glendon, a profes­sor of law at Harvard University and the lead repre­sentative from the Vatican at the Fourth United Nations World Conference on Women held last September in Beijing, will be the principal speaker at Commencement, and will receive an honorary doctor of laws degree from Notre Dame. 
Glendon, a graduate of the University of Chicago in 1959, has become a much acclaimed writer, lecturer and social crit­
• 
Fresh Cut Flowers 

• 
Silk and Dried Flowers 

• 
Imported and Domestic Gifts and Candies 

• 
Gourmet Fruit Baskets 

• 
Plants • Balloons 

• 
Stuffed Balloons 


ic, focusing on such issues as abortion and divorce. 
Sister Helen Prejean, the death penalty abolitionist whose autobiography inspired the Academy Award-winning film "Dead Man Walking," will receive the University's 1996 Laetare Medal and also address the graduates. 
This year's exercises will bring together two notable pairs of dignitaries. Honorary degree recipient Sir John Templeton is the internationally known philanthropist whose foundation recently recognized "Dead Man Walking" with the first Templeton Prize for Inspiring Movies and TV. 
Also, Claire Gaudiani, hon­orary degree recipient and president of Connecticut College, will be succeeded as chair of Campus Compact by Notre Dame president Father Edward Malloy. Campus Compact, a coalition of some 500 college and university pres­idents, is known for encourag­ing student community service. 
In addition to honoring 
Glendon, Templeton and Gaudiani, other honorary degree recipients are William Blake, chief scientist for hydroacoustics at the David Taylor Model Basin; Ruben Carriedo, assistant superinten­dent of the San Diego Unified School District; and Stephen Carter, the William Nelson Cromwell Professor of Law at Yale University; 
Also receiving honorary degrees are Richard Goldstone, chief prosecutor of the UN International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia and Rwanda; Jon Hassler, novelist; John Kaneb, chairman of Gulf Oil and a University trustee; 
C.N.R. Rao, president of the Indian Institute of Science; and Katherine Schipper, Williams Professor of Accounting at the University of Chicago. 
Cardinal Edward Pironio, president of the Pontifical Council for the Laity, previously was announced as an honorary degree recipient, but will be unable to accept due to sched­uling conflicts. 

Flowers a~d Gifts for All Occasions 
Anniversaries  Proms  Weddings  
New Births  Parties  Birthdays  
Banquets  Funerals  Holidays  

Charge by Pirone or Come in and Browse 
8:00 
am -6:00 pm Monday through Friday 

8:00 
am -5:00 pm Saturday 

8:00 
am -noon Sunday 




CHAMBER SINGERS 
Nancy Menk, Conductor 
ShallWe Dance? 
The Art of the Dance Embodied in Choral Music featuring Brahms: Liebeslieder Waltzes Borodin: Po/ovetsian Dances and others 
Sunday, May 19, 7:30 p.m. O'Laughlin Auditorium • Tickets $10* 
7bis concert is made possible eyagrantfmmjune H. Edwards 
*Discounts available. Box office: 9-5 Mon.-Fri. 
WrthlneJYppot!Ofthtl

Discover, Visa, MasterCard lnd•IW'II Arlr; Cotnrnaslonand 
NaaonaiEndcno•mllt'llorlheAtu.
219/284-4626. 

rcongratulations to the 199~ graduates of Breen,Phillips Hall. 

The Staff and Residents 

Friday, May 17. 1996 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS page 9 
Construction hopes to reflect traditional style 

qraduating Seniors Are Invited. • • 
to take advantage of these competitive Notre Dame Federal Credit Union services that will help with your expenses after graduation. 
MASTERCARD/VISA-14.92°/o APR FIXED on purchases for both cards, with no annual fee and a' 25-day grace period. 
Aura LOANS -Rates are as low as 8.25°/o APR FIXED for NEW or USED cars. Payments on your auto loan may be deferred until September, 1996. And, there is a new Franklin $100 bill for you, as our gift, once your loan is disbursed. Minimum $3,000 loan requirement. 
RELOCATION LOAN -This special loan provides money for 
your special relocation needs such as new clothing or a deposit for housing. The rate is only 11.90°/o APR FIXED wi~h 12 months to repay on a maximum of $2,000. 
Please call us if you need money to "get started:' Your Credit Union is the best place to begin when you are building your credit rating. A letter of employment is necessary when you apply for your loan ( s). Applicants with good credit or no credit may qualify. No co­signer 1s required. Offer expires June 30, 1996. 
~NOTRE DAME Call our convenient loan line atu• FEDERAL CREDIT UNION 288-NDCV or 1-800-567-NDCU 
By JAMIE HEISLER 
Associate News Editor 
Within the next five years, campus-wide construction and renovation will in some ways modernize the campus and in other ways r1~turn it to the tra­ditional setting. 
This recent focus on reno­valiHn and construction began with the release of Father Malloy's Colloquy 2000, a re­port listing the areas of University life which he felt could bn improved upon. 
Tlw Bxpansion of Notre Dame Stadium, a $50 million project. was om1 of the major items on Malloy's list. According to Mike Smith, Director of Facilities Engineering, the project is now roughly halfway completed. 
"The pro-cast concrete super­structun~ is being erected cur­rently," lw said. 
lie added that by the 1996 football season. the exterior superstructure would be eom­plete, although the additional interior seating would not be installed. 
"There will be pathways through the construction site at the four corners," Smith said. 
The stadium will be eomplete by August 1997 in time for the football season. 
Henovations to the exterior of the Dome were also intended to return the building's appear­ance to that of the late 1800's. "We think it's going back to what it looked like originally," Smith said. 
Currently. the scaffolding on the main part of the building as well as on the Dome and its supporting shaft have been removed for commencement. The rnmainder of the scaffold­ing will be taken down approx­imately in late August. 
The interior renovations be­gin a year from this summer, allowing renovations to Grace Hall to be completed first in order to house the offices cur­rently located in the adminis­tration building. 
The renovations to the interi­or of the Dome will take two years and will involve the restoration of the paintings on the rotunda as well as the mod­ernization of the utilities within the building. 
In order to renovate the in­terior of the Architecture Building, it was first gutted. The foyer of the building will remain the same, however the 

rest of the interior was re­modeled. The building should be ready for occupancy by January 1997. 
In order to match the in­creased number of students on South Quad, South Dining Hall will be remodeled by the spring of 1998. 
Both wings of the dining hall will be connected through what is currently the Oak Room which will become the serving area. A new retail food space will be added to the south side of the dining hall. 
Because of the construction of the new dorms and the addi­tions to South Dining Hall, Dorr Road, which currently runs between them, will be relocated so that it runs around the cemetery. 
That road has already been dug and will be ready for use on June 10. The guardhouse. currently located at Main Circle, will also be moved north of the cemetery. 
Other projects in the planning include a new bookstore to be completed by the summer of 1999, and a new community center for University Village which will be completed by December 1996. 
A new golf course and performing arts center are also on hold for the present. 
"In all of these changes, how­ever, we have to be careful to respect tradition," said Smith. 
Two new 
dorms near 
completion 
By JAMIE HEISLER .Associnre News Editor 
The four new dorms being constructed on "Golf Quad" were designed to more close­ly resemble the style of South Quad, according to Mike Smith, Director of Facilities Engineering. 
"Architecturally, we were trying to use sloped roofs to make It similar to the older part of campus," he said. 
The two new male dorms, Keough and O'Neill, are cur­rently nearing completion, while the construction of two female dorms, Welsh and an as yet unnamtld dorm, is in the initial stages. 
"In the male dorms, the up­per floors are more complete than the lower floors. On the upper floors the rooms are painted, the tiles are down and the doors are on," Smith said. "The female dorms are just coming orr the ground ... 
While the interior of the dorms will closely resemble that of the dorms on Mod Quad, there will be a few dif· ferences, including increased study and social space. 
Each floor will contain three social spaces and three study spaces-one for each section, and one for the floor ln general. The ground floor will also have an additional larger social space. 

Main Office -239-6611 or 1-800-522-6611 Independent of the University Branch Locations: Mishawaka -256-2361 • Edison Lakes -254-4400 • Ireland Road -299·2220 St. Joseph's Medical Center-237-7288 • Saint Mary's College-284-4614 
Not valid with any other offer. Rates subject to change. 


page 10 The Observer· CAMPUS NEWS Friday, May 17, 1996 
deliver the valedictory address. presented with an honorary was the most difficult to write. Leaving the graduates with doctor of laws degree. "I have never had such a
SMC Grads Hodapp
parting words as the 1996 com­Glendon, who will deliver Notre hard time writing something in 
continued from page 1 
when independence blossomed and relationships bloomed, when you may have first looked up to see the world as it really is and first looked down to meet the path you now embark upon." 
As Saint Mary's seniors await the moment when they will take that path down the tree­lined avenue, degrees in hand, they reflect on their four years under the LeMans Tower. 
"If I had to do it all over again, I wouldn't change a thing," said Jen Roach. "There's so many mixed feel­ings right now -I'm sad about leaving, but excited about grad­uation." 
Describing the class of 1996 as a tight-knit group, Senior Class President Leanne Jones said the class will be best remembered for "class unity, through the close bonds we have formed as friends." · 
Roach added, "We are a class of leaders. We've accomplished a lot of things other classes before us have tried to do, and set a strong example for the underclassmen." 
Education major Susan Hodapp, achieving a 3.97 grade point average after seven semesters at Saint Mary's, will mencement speaker is U.S. Representative Marcy Kaptur. 
Throughout her political career, Kaptur has exhibited a strong commitment to the working class, with broad knowledge on urban, economic and trade issues. 
In addition to participating in the 1995 conference of the Campaign for Human Development, Kaptur's book, "Women of Congress: A Twentieth Century Odyssey," will be released this spring. 
She is also currently the high­est ranking Democratic woman on the Appropriations Committee. 
In addition to recognizing Kaptur with an honorary doc­torate of laws, Saint Mary's College will present four addi­tional honorary degrees this weekend. 
Patricia Decio, a former Saint Mary's Board of Regents mem­ber and chairperson of the Board's committee on student life, will receive an honorary doctorate of humanities. Decio is an active volunteer at Aux Chandelles Trust for the Mentally Retarded and Elkhart General Hospital. 
Mary Ann Glendon, Learned Hand Professor of Law at Harvard University and advo­cate of women's rights, will be 

Student strJ:l~~,by£~. 

By LIZ FORAN '' ·~trtey:·~ssistant dti~'~i~r Editor-in-Chief ., Notre Dame Security. The c~r 
was driven by a another stu" 

A Breen-Phillips resident re-•. <dent, who was not charged. ceived minor Injuries when she !iW< "lt hadJust start~d ra~niil,g, was struck by a car on campus and they apparently didn't·Sf3f.l 
near the inte.rsection ~Y the each othe.r_,• ~urley said~ '·
·:<.K:: 

East Gate, according to Chuck. t$• The ~~~~~ent was treated and Dame's Commencement address, is a founding member of Women Affirming Life and was appointed by Pope John Paul II to head last year's Vatican delegation to the Fourth United Nations Women's Conference in Beijing. 
Libby Larson, renowned com­poser with the Minnesota Orchestra and the Charlotte Symphony, will receive an hon­orary doctorate of fine arts. She is known on campus for composing the Magnificent for Saint Mary's 1994 Sesquicentennial celebration. 
Arthur Decio, businessman and civic leader, will receive an honorary doctorate of laws. He has served on the boards of over 35 civic, religious and financial institutions, including serving as chair of the National Advisory Board of the Salvation Army, the director of Special Olympics International, and president of the Elkhart Hospital Foundations. 
The Baccalaureate Mass will take place at 4 p.m. Friday in Angela Athletic Facility. Degree Candidates line up for the academic procession at 
3:30 p.m., with the procession taking place at 3:55 p.m. 
The rain site for Saturday's Commencement is Angela Athletic Facility. 
•.•;;:l!::lil';i•;]!iii'+~\:UJP U~ 
te eased at st. Joseph Hospit:at with only minor injuries. In other reports, Hurley said 
that sey~ral laptop compl,lters had b~~n stol~n over finals week and the previous week from the library and several 
continued from page 1 
"I would watch what my brothers and sisters would do and imitate them, unconscious­ly. They set great examples," Hodapp commented. 
This weekend will not be the first time Hodapp stands before her graduating class as their aledictorian. She also received the honor at Triad High School in Illinois. From Triad, she moved on to Saint Mary's, where she intended to be an education major. 
"I was always certain that I would go into education," Hodapp said. "I always loved kids and wanted to teach." 
In addition to her education major. Hodapp has minors in both reading and math. 
Upon graduation, she will be certified to teach kindergarten through eighth grade, but would prefer to teach either the first, second, or third grades. 
"I also hope someday to get my master's, probably the sum­mer of 1997. But right now I want to get into the field and get my feet wet. That way I can see what's calling me," she said. 
Hodapp uses her extra ener­gy to play the piano and teach aerobics at Saint Mary's. She has taught aerobics for the last three years, and is recognized across campus as "the ener­getic aerobics instructor." 
Hodapp has also tutored for the "Neighborhood Study-Help Program," and the "Native­American tutoring Program" at Saint Mary's. 
As the valedictorian, Hodapp is required to make a speech. In all her years of writing, how­ever, she explained this speech my life," Hodapp explained. "I wasn't sure if it was because I would be presenting it in front of thousands of people, or if it was a realization of commence­ment. So I had to do a little self-talking. I finally just allowed my emotions to get involved in the speech, but I think that it was for the best. The speech was difficult to write, but I know it will be meaningful." 
Hodapp's speech will revolve around her philosophy of life, the metaphor of music. She will speak of the song that each student is called to play. and explain that her song exists in teaching. 
Each valedictorian selects a professor to aid in the speech writing process. Hodapp chose Professor of Religious Studies Keith Egan as her advisor. who taught Hodapp re_ligion her sophomore year. 
"Dr. Egan has a powerful way about him," Hodapp said. "He is very motivational and inspirational. He brings out my good side through commenting and giving me feedback." 
Hodapp describes Saint Mary's as a great foundation for her future life, as it has enabled her to become the per­son she wants to be. 
"And hopefully," she added, "I will keep becoming this per­son. I have learned a lot at Saint Mary's, and am now ready to become a teacher. I received a wonderful educa­tion, for the whole Saint Mary's community fosters good, strong, faithful relationships. Saint Mary's is something with­in me." 
And she will continue to play her song.


The College of Business Administration offers heartfelt congratulations and 

Friday, May 17, 1996 The Observer· CAMPUS NEWS page 11 
SMC honors seniors in annual Convocation 
WorkCamp ~ ~rt~~ . ~0~\) 
F
rom June 23-28,1996, an alternative vacation, a Christmas in April USA-Notre Dame Family Work Camp, will be offered by the Alumni Community Service Program in collabora­
tion with local South Bend neighborhood associations. Family generations can collectively be 
involved in a home repair project near campus in the Northeast neighborhood. Lodging, meals, reflec­tive and recreational activities will take place on campus through Alumni Family Hall. Alumni fami­lies will work side by side with our campus neighbors and join together for activities such as an open­ing picnic, a tour of the College Football Hall of Fame and a South Bend Silver Hawks baseball game. 
Little, if any, repair skiUsare needed-just a qesire to help ourcampus neighbors!
.,.,,., 

Cost $9o per gerson 
forthe'i'week­family participation e 
''''·~::t''i~l;;,.,\, .. F '· . '~C. For more infqttnation·~, plea~e ca]J pick Dornbos, Coordinator ofSpecial 1 Projects,~ Alumni Community Service Program at 219-~31-8467 IC::...J 
L. 1\~L) 
St JOsoph County

Com unity Service 
NENC
ENTER 
COUNCIL, INC. 
<3> 

Northeast Nei!j1boltoood 
Holy Cross Care Services
Council, Inc. 



By LORI ALLEN Saint Mary's News EJiwr 
Saint Mary's linnst were rec­ognizt~d at an Honors Convocation ceremony held in ()'Laughlin Auditoriumon on May 5. 
Saint Mary's studnnts rang­ing from thn frt~shmen to snniors arrivnd to congratulatn and show their gratitude for the work of' tlwir f'nllow class­
rnatt~s. 
Prnsent at tho Convocation wt~rn various nwmbors of the faculty and staff who each con­trihutt~d in honoring the stu­dnnts. 
Along with distributing acad­emic honors within depart­mnnts, Collego-widn awards wnrn givnn. Saint Mary's Collngn President William llidey presnnted the Saint Catlwrinn Medal to Tracy llollingsworth. 
The following students were induetnd into Kappa Gamma Pi. the Sudety for Distinguished 

Catholic Women Graduates: Kristen Artz, Julie Barnicle, 
. Kimberly Bero, Laura Boeckman, Jennifer Caldwell, Christina Calhoun, Deanna Cankar, Eileen Davenport, Autumn Fields, Maureen Frett, Lori Gaddis, Karen Gerlach, Claire Gibson, Amara Gral', Susan Hodapp, Nieole Hoevet; Cathlynn Howe, Jennifer lmbur, Suzanne Kondratenko, Petrina Lenart, Lisa Lentz, Mitzi McAndrews, Angela McNulty, Jennifer Mitchell, Esti Mutidjo, Melissa Novock, Laura Nowicki, Karla Oselka, Colin Pier, Nancy Sr.hwoyer, Sarah Sullivan, Lisa VanZwoll and Maria Vogel. 
"It was a thrill to be nominat­ed by faculty, and an honor to bn inducted," said Gaddis. "It was a real reflection on my achievements at Saint Mary's." 
Heeognized in Who's Who of Among Students in American Universities and Colleges were: Gabrinle Abowd, Ann Aubuchon, Christina Calhoun, Deanna Cankar, Amy Michelle Wenner. Awards were presented to Cavanaugh, Linda Coleianne, "It was nice to be recognized Maria Pedraza, Liz Wisniewski Kristen Dakewicz, Rebecca again and equally so to be a and Laura Schreeg. Dlouhy, Jennifer Doyle, Emily part of the National Saint Mary's College faculty Duncanson, Bridgette Farrell, Organization of Catholic did not leave the Convocation Kelly Farrell, Michelle Fean, Women's Colleges," said without recognition. Hickey Karen Genovese, Karen Radostits. presented the Multicultural Gerlach, Amara Graf, Tara Various college-wide awards Award to History Professor Hpoper, Cathlynn Howe, Leslie were presented to several stu­Cyriac Pullapilly, the Maria lmbur, Amy Jobes, Suzanne dents. The Sister M. Franzita Piela Award for excellence in Kondratenko, Kelly Larkin, Kane Writing Awards were teaching first-year students to Elaine Licata, Jeanne Maruna, presented to Eileen Davenport, Associate Professor of Tiffany Matula, Angela Mary Good, Kathleen Urda and Philosophy Ann Clark, and the McNulty, Jennifer Mitchell, Sara Niemeyer. Spes Unica Award recognizing Hacquel Mitchell, Jennifer "I was really flattered to a commitment to service to Myers, Sohela Nazneen, receive this award. It porvided Associatll Professor of Melissa Novock, Kathryn me with the opportunity to Mathematics Mary Connolly. O'Donnell, Kathryn Petrovic, attend the Honors Convocation It was a day of reflection and Teresa Hadostits, Elizabeth where I had the chance to see recognition as students were Began, Ellen Sanders, Nancy my friends receive various thanked and rewardnd for their Schwoyer, Erin Shern, Sarah awards," said Urda. contributions to the Saint Sullivan, Mary Udovich and The Dorothy Mainer Writing Mary's Community. 

EDUCATION THE MARY A. MCDERMO'IT AWARD • JENNIFER MOORE
----~--­THE GRACE SULLIVAN MCGUIRE AWARD • TARA HOOPER Saint Mary's Colle~ 
ENGLISH ELISABETH A. NOEL ENGLISH PRIZE • SUZANNE KONDRATENKO
Depurtmentul Awards 
LAURIE A. LESNIEWSKI CREATIVE WRITING AWARD • ELIZABETH REGAN ART SAINT LUKE"S AWARD • TIFFANY MATULA • JEANNINE GAUBERT HISTORY SISTER EDNA SERVICE AWARD • LISA LENTZ MARTHA MONTGOMERY SCHURZ MEMORIAL AWARD • EILEEN DAVENPORT BIOLOGY BLECKA·ZATKO ESSAY AWARD • NICOLE RJTIENHOUSE MafHER M. ROSE ELIZABETH AWARD • RENAE M. WOZNIAK GEORGE AND lUANDA BICK NATURE AWARD • RENAE M. WOZNIAK HUMANISTIC STUDIES SISTER M. ROSALEEN DUNLEAVY ALLIED HEALTH AWARD • THOMAS MORE AWARD • AMARA GRAF MAUREEN MEALY MATHEMATICS BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION AND ECONOMICS MILKO JEGLIC AWARD • MARIA VOGEL WALL STREET JOURNAL AWARD • CATHLYNN HOWE FRANK A. YEANDEL SERVICE AWARD • JEANNE MARUNA MODERN LANGUAGES ACADEMIC ACHIEVEMENT AWARD • ANN AUBUCHON FRENCH PRIZE • LISA VAN ZWOLL ACCOUNTING AWARD • CATHLYNN HOWE SPANISH PRIZE • CAROLYN GILL • CHRISTINA LAND ECONOMICS AWARD • AMANDA ASBURY FINANCE AWARD • JEANNE MARUNA NURSING INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS AWARD • NICOLE HOEVET HUMANITARIAN AWARD • JENNIFER PARRIS II MANAGEMENT AWARD • JENNIFER HORAN MCGUINESS AWARD • JULIE BARNICLE MARKETING AWARD • ANN AUBUCHON ERNST AND YOUNG AWARD • JENNIFER MYERS POLITICAL SCIENCE JULIEITE NOONE LESTER AWARD • AMANDA ASBURY CHEMISTRY ACHIEVEMENT AWARD • LAURA BOECKMAN AMERICAN INSTITUTE OF CHEMISTS AWARD • EMILY RAE DUNCANSON PSYCHOLOGY MafHER M. ROSE ELIZABETH AWARD • LESLEY ANN IMBUR OUTSTANDING SCHOLARSHIP AWARD • JENNIFER MITCHELL OUTSTANDING ACHIEVEMENT AWARD • JENNIFER OWENS COMMUNICATION, DANCE, THEATRE EXCELLENCE IN THEATRE • KRISTEN DAKEWICZ • KATHRYN 0 SOCIOLOGY, ANTHROPOLOGY AND SOCIAL WORK DONNELL OUTSTANDING SCilOLARSiliP AWARD • GRETCHEN WEIGEL COMMUNICATIONS AWARDS • REBECCA DLOUHY • BETH VAN OUTSTANDING ACiiiEVEMENT AWARD • KIRA HUTCIIINSON •AMY TIEM CAVANAUGH TERPSICHOREAN AWARD FOR EXCELLENCE IN DANCE • MICHELLE TISEO WOMEN'S STUDIES WOMEN'S STUDIES PRIZE • AMY JOHNSON 


-.. --. .... Friday, May 17, 1996 
The Office of Residence Life and the Office of Student Affairs wish to thanl~ the 1995-96 Residence Hall Assistants for their hard worl~ and dedication this year. 
Congratulations and Good Luck! 
Kathleen Adams Kevin Dolan Mary Keys 
Beth Peretta 

Tracy Allega Michael Doty Kacy Kilner 
Cort Peters 

Jennifer Allen Sean Dougherty Michael Kloska 
Mary Plumb Amy Amoni Timothy Dunn Travis Krahl 

Matt PogodzinskiDominic Amorosa Karen Eckerle Kevin Krayer 

Robert Purcell

James Anderst , Matthew Entrekin Laura Kroggel 
Jennifer RaneyMichael Asher Johanna Fabrizio Timothy Kusserow Patricia RangelJason Baasten Clara Finneran Renee La Reau Todd Reinhart Bridget Barry Mark Fitzgerald Jennifer Layden 

Mary Beth Reitzug
Miguel Berastain Michael Fleisch Cheryl Lehner Jennifer Robinson 
Jeffrey Biever Michelle Frasier Bret Lewis Rob Rolf Bridget Biggs Kristin Geeza Timothy Long Kristin RuethlingRebecca Bizup Cornelius Gehred Ceila Loughlin 
Ron Runnebaum 

Eric Joshua Blank Katherine Giovannone Joseph Lovechio Monica Scales Michael Bourke Daniel Glennon Jeanne Lucke David Schaarsmith Jeanne Boyle Kristin Grothoff Karen Luke Maria Schott Shannon Brennan Catherine Grummer Kathleen Lynch Lisa Schultz 
Honora Buckley Matt Guide Donna Marchand 
Timothy SeymourTrang Bui Kory Hamel Abigail May Nicole Shilkofski Joshua Burick Christin Hancock Jonas McDavit Chad Smock Julie Byrd Leah Harty Scott McDermott 
Michelle Strathman 
Dan Cardile Ryan Heffelfinger Ryan McFadden Daniel Sullivan Kristen Carey Noreen Hefferon Jonathan McGhee David Sullivan 
Tomas Carrasquillo John Heilman Megan McGrath Thomas Sullivan Fernando Carreira Melanie Heitman James McKale James Swartz
Daniel Casey David Hellen Stacy McNally Edward Tadajweski
Patrick Casey Vincent Herman Heather McShain 
Michael TognettiBrian Cason Eric Hillegas Laura Merritt 

Elizabeth Trantowski Sean Christiansen Timothy Hipp Benjamin Mitchell 
Leigh Ann TuckerBryan Connolly Mari Hirano Elicia Montoya 
Peter Van De NorthJason Conte Ben Huser Robert Mundt Jeanine Very
Daniel Cook Holly J askierny Laura Murphy Metty VithayathilMark Corriere Lexy Jenkins Tara Naughton 
Michael Wigton

Jonathan Coury Lisa Johnson Tim Nelson 
Michael Williams Kelly Cox Michael Johnson Courtney Nemeth Jeff WojcikNathan Cuka Shannon Kasten Chris Nessinger 

Luke Woods

Shawn Delfausse Bridget Keefe Jason Newland Roger YangAndrew Dicello Brian Kelly Cheryl O'Brien Lisa YerianMichelle Dillenburger Christine Kenny Tom Odmark 
Sheila Zachman Jeffrey Dix Laura Kern Andrew Parial 

We also wish to thanl~ and congratulate the following Assistant Rectors as they move on to new opportunities: 
Christopher Bartoli Allison Heuring Michael Nader 
Zulfiqar Bokhari Michael Leary Paul Noonan Andrea Cox Paulita Llopis Pike John Plaine Bridget Deegan Mary J o Loranger Mark Reuter Miguel Diaz Rosario Lozada Eileen Smith 
Rev. Robert Dowd, CSC Mark Mildenberger Joy Smith Kristen Fletcher Philip Mohr Mark Woodmansee 
Our deepest gratitude to the following Rectors as they leave their current positi_ons. Best wishes to each of you! 
Rev. Terence Linton, CSC Ms. Catherine Lohmuller Ms. Mary Vaccaro 
Friday, May 17, 1996 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS page 13 






Gorno to chair SMC Board of Trustees 
The News

By MAUREEN HURLEY As Gorno, the first lay person sion statement is the major have right now is to exercise Saini Mary's News Editor to be namP.d Chair, steps up to strength of the College, accord­this authority [to name the lead the Trustees, she said she ing to Gorno. new president]. As a Board, As the Saint Mary's Class of hopes to maintain the high "Saint Mary's differentiates we take that responsibility 
Department

1996 makes the transition into standards set by her predeces­itself from other colleges in very seriously," Gorno said. alumnae life, one alumna takes sors. that our mission today is iden­"The Board of Trustees will on a new role within in the "I am very privileged to be tical to our founding mission," continue to take the role that 
thanks its 

College gov­given this set of responsibili­she said. they have in establishing poli­ernanee. ties," she said. "We have a "When we say 'Honoring cy, and continue to define and Effective long, rich tradition of great Tradition, Pioneering Change,' articulate the mission to its dif­
graduates:

with the end­leadership at Saint Mary's, and that is more than a clever slo­ferent constituencies, and ing of the I am inspired by that legacy. gan. We live it." maintain the intellectual aeademic "I have had the opportunity Reflecting on her history integrity of this campus." 
Dave Tyler

year, Mary to sit on many boards, and with the Board, Gorno said, Sister Rachel Callahan, end­Lou Gorno. a there is no group of more com­"One of the greatest accom­ing a five-year tenure as chair, 1972 gradu-mitted, tireless workers who plishments that we, as a board, will remain active with the ate, will Gorno believe unconditionally in this have made was the restructur­College, serving as chair of this 
John Lucas 

assume the institution,'' she continued. ing of the governance. presidential search committee. position as chair of the Board Gorno views her role as chair "I think that prepares us to Gorno exhudes enthusiasm of Trustees. to bring together "all 36 lead­deal with some of the issues of when discussing her role as 
Kristi Kolski 

Gorno joined the Board in ers on the Board." higher education in the Board Chair. 1987, and was elected viee­"I want to be the person that future." "I see a time of explosive ehair in 1991. assumes the primary responsi­Under this new form of gov­growth and opportunity for 
Melanie Lafiin 

In addition to her role as bility of having the Board ernance, established in 1994, Saint Mary's. I'm very opti­vice-chair, Gorno was named speak in one voice and be the all decision-making falls under mistic about the future," she national chair of the visionaries and the leaders a single Board of Trustees. said. 
Mary Kate

Sesquicentennial Campaign in that they are." Gorno assumes the position Holding degrees from Saint 1994. The focus on the College mis-of Board chair as the College Mary's College, Northwestern embarks on the selection University, the University of 
Morton

a new president, Chicago and Stanford 0 following the announcement of University, Gorno is recognized You did it! College President William as a leader in the advertising 

Megan McGrath
Hickey's resignation. industry, handling major "One of the most important accounts including Proctor and opportunities we're going to Gamble, Disney and Reebok. 

Another Graduation ! 

American Heart ~ 
Congratulations, Mary -You're the Greatest ! 


AssociationSM~ 
Fighting Heart Disease and Stroke 

Congratulations, Patrick 



AMERICAN HEART ASSCX:::IATION MEMORIALS & TRIBUTES 
~ 
... 1-800-AHA-USAl 
This space provided as a public service. ©1994, Amencan Hean Association 

Love -Dad, Mom, Bo & the Whole Family 

Farley Hall, 
Clllss of 1996 
Jenny Robinson Cristan Reali Lynn Bauwens Indy Wright Anna Cooper Bri dget Keefe 
START YOUR FIRST DAY 
Kelly Cox Ann Stricherz
WITH YEARS OF 
Aileen Fenn Kelly Walsh 
EXPERIENCE BEHIND YOU. 
Valarie Villareal Carin Uhlir 


Bring your BSN to the Army and we'll assign a preceptor to help put you at ease. 
Your preceptor will be an experienced Army Nurse who will smooth your transition from school to practice. With advice, counsel on Army nursing pro­cedure, or just by being afriend. 
With your preceptor's help, 

you'll meet your new challenges and rapidly move into a leadership role of your own. 
Ifyou're a BSN candidate...or you are an RN with a BSN...you'll find the rewards and responsibility you're looking for in Army Nursing. Contact your local Army Nurse Corps Recruiter. 
317-634-4496 

ARMY NURSE CORPS. 
BE ALL 10U CAN BE. 
Dionne Adams Amy Haag Kristi Kolski Krista Nannery Kristin Ruethling Amy Amador Laura Kern Beth Perretta Katie Meyers 
Maria Schott Britta Parten Erin Kelsey Christina Ftiscar Sheila Coussens Rachel Robertson Kim Downs Kathleen Dolan Megan Keenan 
'llulnf(s for sharinclife with us. You are Farley's Finest! 

--~------------­
page 14 Friday, May 17, 1996
The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS 

SISTAR 
funds joint research project 
By MAUREEN HURLEY 
Saint Mary's News Editor 
As most underclassmen take a break from academics and move on to summer jobs or travel, four Saint Mary's stu­dents will undertake exten­sive research through the Student Independent Study and Research (SISTAR) pro­gram, sponsored by the Center for Academic Innovation. 
In its fifth year, the SISTAR program provides funding for a student and professor to work collaboratively in eight to nine weeks of research on campus. 
"The faculty member and student go into it as col­leagues, and work through the project as colleagues. That's what makes the project so unique to Saint Mary's," said Patrick White, associate dean of faculty. 
"The intensity of the com­mitment on both parts makes it truly collaborative in nature," he continued. 
Both the professor and stu­dent receive a stipend of $3000 each to cover expenses, and the student receives free housing for the summer. 
Of the twelve team appli­cants, the 1996 SISTAR grant recipients are: 
• 
English Department Chair and Associate Professor Theodore Billy and Michele Kuhlmann, "The Aesthetics of Iconography: Nathaniel Hawthorne's Psychology of Art." 

• 
Associate Professor of Communications, Dance and Theatre Professor Indi Dieckgrafe and Caroline Quinlan, "Two Women Dancing." 

• 
Assistant Professor of Music Deborah Norin-Kuehn and Jill Seitzer, "A Study of Extended Vocal Techniques of the Twentieth Century." 

• 
Associate Professor of Biology Thomas Platt and Kara Masucci, "Molecular and Morphological Analysis of Larval and Adult Spirochids (Digenea: Schistosomatoidea), Parasites of Freshwater Turtles and Snails." 


According to participants, working on in-depth research on the same level as profes­sors is the greatest asset of the program. 
"In the planning stages, as a faculty-student synergy, we've worked well together and made this project both of ours," said Masucci. 
'Til be doing research that I probably wouldn't have had the opportunity to do until grad school." 
Faculty members laud the benefits of the program. "Being able to work closely without the constraints of the school year will allow us to focus clearly on what we're doing," said Dieckgrafe. "This is a great program because it has been fair in including all disciplines." 
According to White, all the SISTAR teams will present their research to the Saint Mary's Community in the fall. 
SMC registrar to retire after 23 years 
By MAUREEN HURLEY more students and people in the College "Sister could always be relied on for Saint Mary's News Editor than anyone else," said Feigl. "For her, assistance when a policy decision had to every interaction is with an individual be made," said President William Hickey 
The standing ovation she received at the person." at the May 14 President's Dinner. "Hers 1996 Honors Covocation Ceremony is Kennedy took pride in describing how was a ready ear to help strengthen a con­proof of the high level of respect the Saint "very impressive" it is to see students clusion or to raise concerns that needed to Mary's community holds for Sister grow during their time at Saint Mary's. be debated." 
Francesca Kennedy. 
After 23 years as reg­istrar of Saint Mary's College, Kennedy will retire from her position, leaving a visible mark on the College commu­nity. 

Describing her as "the epitome of the Saint 
L-0....-:-:--'--...,--~ Mary's faculty mem­ber," Dorothy Feigl, Dean of Faculty, decribed the personal attention Kennedy gives to everything she works on. 
"Sister Francesca is competent, con­cerned, and someone who really likes and interacts well with people. She probably knows the names and backgrounds of 
"It's academic, but there's also an el­ement of students coming to an accep­tance of self as a person, and the willing­ness to act on their beliefs," she said. 
Throughout her career at Saint Mary's, she has assumed many roles in the College adminstration, along with han­dling the responsibilities as registrar, including: Acting Vice President for Academic Affairs, Assistant to the Vice President and Dean of Faculty, Interium Chair of the Department of Education and Interium Chair of the Department of Music. 
In addition, she has served on numerous committees, such as Academic Standards Committee, Admission and Scholarship Committee, and the Rank and Tenure Committee. 
"She is a good person in the fullest sense of the word," said Feigl. 
According to Feigl, the College is wrap­ping up the selection process for the next College Registrar, and hopes to have Kennedy's successor named next week. 
Kennedy will remain active with the College following her retirement as regis­trar. 
In addition to doing volunteer work within the College, Kennedy says she plans to work on writing out this year's chapter in the Saint Mary's history books in the 1995-96 archives narrative. 
"This is a very fine school, which I have felt fortunate to participate in and con­tribute to," Kennedy said. "I definately will remain on campus in the forseeable future." 
C & P Distributing 
2500 Miracle Lane • Suite D Mishawaka, IN 46545 219-256-1138 • Fax 219-256-1144 Price List Effective through 6/1196 
486 DX2/66 AMD .. $23.00 
486 DX4/100 AMD .. 49.00 486 DX4/120 AMD .. 59.00 
PENTIUM POWER 
AMD 586-133 ........... 59.00 Cyr~x 5x86/l20 ......... 89.00 P5175 Intel ................ 118.00 P5/l00 Intel ............. 159.00 P51120 Intel ............. 219.00 I x 32 (4 meg) no parity .......... $49.00 P5/l33 Intel ............. 299.00 2 x 32 (8 meg) no parity ............. 89.00 P5/150 Intel ............. 429.00 4 x 32 (16 meg) no parity ........ 199.00 P5/166 Intel ............. 569.00 8 x 32 (32 meg) ................... 399.00 
I x 36 (4 meg) w/parity .............. 69.00Motherboards 2 x 36 (8 meg) w/parity ........... 129.00 486 PCI/ISA with hdd/io ............................ $98.00 4 x 36 ( 16 meg) w/parity ......... 289.00 
Supports Cx586-120 
I x 32 EDO (4 meg) .............. 59.00 
586 PCIIISA Intel Endeavor ........................ 229.00 
2 x 32 EDO (8 meg) ............ 109.00 
with SB Pro Vibra 16 Audio 586 PCIIISA Intel Atlantis .......................... 339.00 
Multimedia

with Crystal Audio/ATI Mach64 4X Speed CD-ROM Panasonic, Toshiba, NEC ......................... $59.00 6X Speed CD-ROM 
3 ComPCMCIA 
Acer, Creative Labs .................................... 89.00 
combo .................... $129.00 

6X Speed CD-ROM Teac ................................ 118.00 
3 Com 3c509 combo (5 pak) ......... 325.00 
*Hard Drives

SMC Ultra 16c (5 pak) .............. 325.00 1.2GB Western Digital ................................. $215.00 1.6GB Western Digital ................................... 269.00 
2.0 GB Seagate ................................................ 319.00 
2.5 GB Western Digital ................................... 389.00 
Modems · E roms
28.8 baud modem Practical Peripherals ........................... $159.00 8 meg .................... $49.00 US Robotics .......................................... 189.00 4 meg ........................ 7.50 
2 meg ........................ 5.95 I meg ........................ 4.50
Monitors 
27512 ························ 2.25 

14" ······························································ $219.00 
27256 ························ 1.95 


15" ································································ 299.00 
27128 ........................ 1.65 

17" ........................................................ : ....... 599.00 
2764 ·························· 1.95 2732 ...................... : ... 1.65 Tape Backup _ 2716 .......................... 1.65 
350 ······························································· $89.00 
800/Int.Ext. .................................................. 139.00 *Prices reflect dealer discount for quantities of five or more. Please add an additional $5.00 per item for lesser quantities. 
All prices listed here on this page are subject to change without notice. Quanities are limited on all items listed on this page. 

.---------------------~~~ ~­
Friday, May 17, 1996 
The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS page 15 
ValuJet crash claims for01er Irish captain 
By BRAD PRENDERGAST News Editor 
The Notre Dame football career of former running back Hodney Culver had its share of memorable highlights. 
IIi s touch-
,--·-----, down carry in the 1989 Fiesta Bowl gave the Irish a 16-0 lead against West Virginia, pro­pelling Notre Dame to the Culver national championship. His 1,697 career rushing yards placed him on the brink of breaking into the list of the top 20 Notre Dame all-time rushers. And his versatility as both a fullback and a tailback earned him the interest of National Football League scouts and a subse­quent four-year career in the 
NFL. 
But the most distinguishing mark of Culver's term at Notre Dame was being the sole cap­lain of the 1991 squad. It was a role most fitting for the per­sonal attributes that he brought to tlw Irish football team. 
This week, former teammates and coaches remembered Culver, who perished with his wife Karen on ValuJet Flight 592 when the plane crashed Saturday in the Everglades. He was 2(,. 
"Hodney Culver was never a guy who stood out, but he was always there," said Notre Dame head coach Lou Holtz. "He was a class act." 
Culver demonstrated that class at the beginning of his senior season in 1991, when he moved to tailback from his cus­tomary fullback position in order to make room for sopho­more Jerome Bettis. 
"Watching the way Rodney handled the switch from full­back to running back helped me," former teammate Reggie Brooks, who moved between the defensive secondary and running back while at Notre Dame, told The South Bend Tribune. "He was able to deal with it with such grace. He didn't seem to mind as long as he was helping the team. 
"Rodney was Notre Dame football. He had a mature wis­dom that was practically uncanny," Brooks, now with the Washington Redskins, contin­ued. "He was like a brother to me. He was the leader of the pack and we just naturally wanted to follow him." 
Holtz remembered Culver's ability to set the tone of the team whenever game time approached. 
"Every time, we came out onto the field or in the locker room, he was the one that would come up to you and pat you on the back and say, 'Don't worry, Coach. We'll take care of it,"' Holtz said. "He was a very positive, upbeat person." 


Sue is really excited! She is GRADUATING!!! and she won BooKSTORE!!! 
CongratuIations 
Mom, Dad, Jeff '91, and David '93 

Congratulations to the Seniors of Badin Hall 
Ann Marie Achille juliejanowak Rebecca Bizup Sarah Mascarenhas Leslie Butler Abigail May 
..·­

Dana Cabral ~ ·.::·,.;.v-:'·. ~: Angelique McCook Holly ~ampbell ·w~,{t ~ A~drea McMakin Ruth Dtemer ~ ·· ·fjJ:. Jr Enn Moran .r, . Michelle Dillenbqrger·~ SheUa Navagh·;~f,i, 
,_ I /""' ..... . . .,~ ~ 

Karen Dillon ~:l]J T1K: )illSatanek .,> ~~,~ Sha~o~ Einloth ·_J · ui ~t. M~redit~ Siegfri..ecl 
~~~i~~~~!~~~~ iHt :U c~ ~:;a~~c:tirff~~d 
~
...·. 

Susan Grace :, ~. i JSllillNen Swinton Kimberly Ha·rt :fr~ "-v·o Bridget Weiihaar Monica Infante Kathryn Zolkowski 

The Final Days... 
The Observer/ Mike Ruma 
S
enior Week, the time when the final countdown to commencement reaches single digits, gave students a chance to visit their favorite spots on campus one last time. 
FLOWERS DELIVERED 
~7 DAYS~ 

Flowers, Roses, Balloons, Birthday Cakes, Fruit Baskets, Plush Animals and Gifts 

Clocktower Square ALL MAJOR CREDIT Phone Answered 51400 US 31 North 24 Hours a Day
CARDS ACCEPTED 277-1291 or 1·800·328·0206 
South Bend 
"In the middle ofdifficulty lies opportunity" 
Albert Einstein 

Be Bold! Be Bold! Be Bold! 
Congratulations Graduates! 
Margaret M. Holland Attorney at Law M. Holland and Associates, P.C. 
ph: 312/251-0125; fax: 312/332-0600 
Practice concentrated in US Immigration law 
H-1 B Professional Visa Matters Preferred 
Lightning strikes grad student 
By LIZ FORAN Editor-in-Chief 
A Notre Dame student was struck by lightening early last Friday morning, according to Chuck Hurley, assistant direc­tor of Notre Dame Security. 
On Friday, May 10 at about 1 

a.m. a graduate student was walking back to Fischer Graduate Hesidence when he saw a bright flash, Hurley said. 
"The next thing he knew, he was lying on the ground," he added. 
The student was taken to St. Joseph Hospital where he was examined and released. He was unharmed. 

page 16 
Abdo 
continued from page 3 
mucus from her lungs. 
"I do breathing treatments to prevent my lungs from getting full of junk, and when I can go a month without being suctioned (through the trache) they'll take it out." 
Abdo also plans to finish two final class requirements over the summer. Although she completed her English major, she wants to finish her classical literature minor. 
There are also days when Abdo must combat depression. For a period of two weeks she cried all the time. 
"You ask the obvious, 'Why did it have to be me?,' and then you kick yourself. We didn't have seat belts on," 
The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS 
Abdo said. "I don't blame myself, but I could really easily and I kind of did. Getting through that was the hardest part. 
"Now there are just days where I don't feel good,. I don't want to be touched or just don't talk to me. If I don't feel good I won't take phone calls," she added. 
The overwhelming support from her family and friends has helped, but Abdo realizes she has more to accom­plish. 
"Some days are good but there are others when I'm down and I just cry and my dad cries with me. But I'm never crying alone. With all the sup­port and all the people, friends and staff at Notre Dame and their prayers, I'm never crying alone. But I am cry­ing. It's getting better." The Observer/Kristi Kolski 

A specialty van, designed for use by Abdo, contains an automatic ramp and a system of shocks which lower the van for easier access by wheelchair. 
Archivist leaves SMC 
By MAUREEN HURLEY 
Saint Mary's News Ediwr. 
Chances are, Sister M. Rosaleen Dunleavy knows every little-known fact about Saint Mary's College. After a brief trip into the Cushwa-Leighton Library's College Archives, she can probably dig up any photo­graph, document or memory of the College's 151-year history. 
After serving as College Archivist for 12 years, Dunleavy will retire at the end of this month. 
"Sister is not only 'the memo­ry of Saint Mary's College,' she has ensured that the memory will live on for future genera­tions by writing the annual chronicle," said College President William Hickey at the May 14 President's Dinner. 
Dunleavy stressed the loyalty exhibited by all those affiliated with the College"Those who have graduated from the College and returned, and those who work for Saint Mary's have always remained loyal to Saint Mary's,'' she said.And Dunleavy exhibits that same loyalty, com­piling the College's history for the past 12 years. 
"She is recognized by many as the single most knowledgable person at Saint Mary's College regarding the College's life and history," Hickey said. 
Abdo grateful for overwhelming support 
By KRISTI KOLSKI 
Senior SraffWrirer 
Following the accident that abruptly brought an end to Mandy Abdo's senior year, her family and the Notre Dame com­munity rallied to bring her sup­port. 
"I had a ton of doctors, they all had different ideas, and it was pretty much my family and my friends that pulled me through," Abdo said. 
Immediately after the acci­dent, there were times at St. Joseph's when Abdo would be alone, unable to talk or move. 
"I was so scared. You can't breathe on your own, you can't move or can't communicate, except by mouthing the words and using your eyes,'' Abdo said. "So my family said that's never going to happen again." 
From that point on, until the time she was discharged, Abdo had somebody with her every day and somebody sleeping in her hospital room every night. Abdo's family and friends united around her for the three weeks she spent in the Intensive Care Unit at St. Joseph Medical Care Center in South Bend. 
"They never left my side, ever," Abdo said. 
Her boyfriend, Bill Shean, a '95 Notre Dame graduate and current law student at the University of Colorado, Boulder, also spent two weeks with Abdo. 
"When Bill found out about 

Brian Halloran -Domer i96 



We're proud of you I I 
love, Mom, Dad, Brendan, & Mary Brigid 
··~ ,
~i~~·~· 
If you seek for a monument, gaze around. 
(Inscription in St. Paul's Cathedral, London) 
Notre Dame Public Relations and Information salutes our graduating tour guides, who looked around a little while they were here. 
'[)~?/~ 
~?/~UU 
~~ e~~ fltU~ ?itJ9e't4Ld ~~~ 
?ldut ~ 144kt~ ~()~ 1/c:dat jD~ ?It~ s~~ 

the accident, he grabbed his wallet, a pair of boxers and caught the first flight to South Bend," Abdo said. "He spent two weeks with me without any clothes. That's devotion." 
The outpouring of assistance and support from the Notre Dame community also proved immense. "There was an instantaneous ring around me that was non-stop for three weeks,'' she said. 
Along with Abdo's roomates, Dawn Kasperski, Pam Kennedy and Erin Lyons, many students visited her in the hospital. Cards have filled five photo albums. 
"I was so drugged that I didn't know what was going on, so I don't know who was there, and I don't know who to thank, but I would say that I would give you a big huge hug because that helped my family," Abdo said. 
Senior Class President Kevin Kuwik helped out by taking Abdo's three younger brothers to Notre Dame basketball games and sometimes to shoot baskets in the gym. 
"Besides just being there to help me, they helped my mom and dad by taking my brothers," she said. 
Visits from administrators Patricia O'Hara and Bill Kirk, vice-president, and assistant vice-president of student affairs added to the support. 
"Bill Kirk was a godsend, you never thought you'd be happier to have him around," she said. 
Lou Holtz, head coach of the Notre Dame football team, also visited Abdo while in the South Bend hospital. He returned a week later, fulfilling the promise to bring the game ball when Notre Dame defeated Air Force. Inscribed on the ball is Abdo's name and the score, 44 -14. 
Professors Rathburn and MacLeod also took turns visiting. Professor Moriarty sat with Abdo on Thanksgiving so her family could eat a Thanksgiving dinner at the Hesburgh Center for International Studies. 
"My family wouldn't have made it through without the support of all my friends and people that jumped to help,'' she said. 
On Nov. 30, Abdo left South Bend for Abbot Northwestern Hospital in her home-state of Minnesota. Support from the Notre Dame community remained constant. 
The mothers of Kevin Klau, Pete Vandenorth, and Brent Tadsen who live in Minnesota also are helping the family. They have particularly helped out with the e-mail and bed-side shopping. 

"The outpouring from the par­ents has been just phenomenal." 
For two months the neighbors got together and rotated bring­ing over dinner. 
Seigfried, Abdo's dorm prior to moving off-campus, raised $500 at mass to buy an airline ticket for Abdo's boyfriend Bill Shean, so that he could visit her in Minnesota. 
The Notre Dame Club of Minnesota offered assistance by arranging for interviews so that Shean could get a job in Minnesota for the summer. 
"If you did something for me, thank you, half the time I was too drugged to know the differ­ence. But my family knew and I got the repercussions of it," Abdo said. 
Abdo saves her greatest thanks for her parents. Although her father works, that allows Abdo's mother to remain at home and take care of her. "My mom has been with me through everything," Abdo said. 
University of Notre Dame Liturgical Choir 
Dr. Gail L. Walton, Director 

·--­

, 996 Commencement Concert 
Basilica of the Sacred Heart 17 May 1996 8:00 P.M. 
® 

Friday, May 17, 1996 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS page 17 
SMC department recognizes senior art Capsule to 
By ANGELA CATALDO 
News Writer 
The Saint Mary's College Art Department eunelnded an outstanding academic year by honoring four seniors, according to Art Departnwnt Chair Mareia Hiekard. 
Allison Casdari, .Jeannine Gaubert, Lisa l.tmtz and Tiffany Matula all received hon-

The Observer/ Kim Michalik The Student Summer Art Show features vari­ous creative pieces by Saint Mary's students. 
ors for their Senior Comprehensives. The Saint Luke's Medal, and award for distin­guished achievement in the visual arts, went to Gaubert and Matula. The Sister Edna Service Award, given to the student who contributes outstanding service to the art department, was awarded to Lentz. 
The gallery was continuously busy this year, showcasing 10 exhibitons, two portfo­lio reviews and 12 senior comprehensives. One of the highlights of the season was an exhibition entitled "Women Facing Fear." A national invitational, "Women Facing Fear" included 16 female artists from around the country displaying a variety of media. 
In addition, the gallery once again par­ticipated in AIDS awareness week, witrh an instillation consisting of a circle of sand in whieh candles are placed and lit in remem­berance to thgose in our community with · AIDS. All visitors were encouraged to sit around the circle to take time to reflect and remember. 
Academically, the department was equal­ly active. The Art Department revised the Bachelor of Fine Arts program. 
Department members Marcia Rickard and Julie Tourtillotte were promoted to Associate Professor. Tourtillotte also received the NEA Individual Artist Award and was awareded the Indiana Art Council Grant. 
The department was also enriched by artists in residence. Miroslav Rogala in electric media and Kristin Caskey in fibers both spent a week on campus. 

In addition to reflecting on the past as commencement nears, the department looked to the future as it broadened its cur­riculum, with the addition of Surface Design and Asian Art Courses. Also, space was allocated for a new papermaking stu­dio. 
Despite rumors, 'Backer will not relocate 
contain class items 
By JAMIE HEISLER 
Associate News Editor 

As seniors look back on how fast their four years have gone by, a class time capsule also has people wondering how fast the next 25 years will pass. 
"We're putting things away in a time capsule, and at the 25th reunion we'll have a dis­play of the contents of the capsule," said Senior Class President Knvin Kuwik. 
The class of '96 is the first to put plans for a time capsule into action and has chosen numerous items which sym­bolize their four years at the University including: 
• 
a replica of the women's soccer team national champi­onship ring 

• 
a brick from the old stadi­um 

• 
issues of The Observer and Scholastic 

• 
Dave Kellett's "Four Food Groups of the Apocalypse" book 

• 
Emily Lord's CD 


• 
memorabilia from events such as the Keenan Revue and the Fisher Regatta 

• 
memorabilia from local bars 

• 
cards listing what people think Notre Dame will be like in 25 years and also what they think they will be doing in 25 years 


The class had originally intended to bury the time cap­sule underground, but several factors innuenced their deci­sion not to do so. 
"With the amount of con­struction work there is on campus, it's not feasible, and also the cost of containers to bury something underground was in the thousands," said Kuwik. 

The class then talked to the Alumni Association which suggested the alternative of placing the eapsule in the basement of the new book­store/ alumni eenter. 
"We're trying to set up something where each class will do it [a time capsule! and put them in a depository in the basement," said Kuwik. 
Plans for the usage of the bookstore are not definite, however, the class is hoping that the project will be carried through. 
Because the new bookstore will not be built for another three years, the time capsule contents will be placed in a safety deposit box in the Notre Dame Federal Credit Union until that time. 

By LIZ FORAN 
Editor-in-C:hicf 
Many a clouded memory has been madn with a few friends, loud rnusie and a Long Island let~ Tna at one of the most popular South Bend hangouts. and they will continue to be made at the same location, dnspitt! rumors to the contrary. 
Tlw l.innbaekor Lounge will not move from its current loca­tion at the intersection U.S. 23 (South Bend Avenue) and Edison Hoad at any point in the near future, according to owner Elwanda Delinski. 
According to rumors, the 'Backer (as it is affectionately called by Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students) was allegedly moving to another loeation due to construction on U.S. 23. While the road con­struction is a fact, the destruc­tion of the building to compen­sate for the widening of the highway is a myth. 

The highway is scheduled to be widened at several sections during the summer, including the area near the 'Backer, ac­cording to the Indiana Department of Transportation. 
"I'll definitely be there 
through the fall," she said. She is so certain that the location of the 'Backer, 1631 South Bend Ave., will not change that she has begun taking bids for building renovations. 
"There are several things I have been meaning to do, that I didn't want to start until1 knew for sure Ithat the build­ing would remain]," she added. 
Congratu[ations Seniors­
Jml 
I 
~~ 

Contntencentent · · ..,. 
We'[[ Miss You! 
Baccalaureate Mass are available!!! 
Pick up order £ornts in all dornts a £ront Educational Media 

.Love,
Educational Media University d NotreDame 

tfie women of 1(nott J-fa[[
Room 9 of the CCE Bldg. P.O. Box 1088 Notre Dame, IN 46556 
219 • 631 • 5465 



Did you know... f 

That you could own acondominium or townhome just minutes from Notre Dame for as little as $455* per month? 

A wise inveshnentfor students, parents, alumni andfaculty. 
• 
Condominiums and townhomes as low as $52,000 

• 
Perfect for game weekends 


• 
Beautiful waterfront settings ~<;,RO~ 


~ c. 
~11)~
North Shore Club 

!'i ~­
~ $ 
~SHo'i-1-c:.;
Morkls Open Daily Sat. &Sun. 12-5 P.M. 

(219) 232-2002
(800) 404-4275 
• Monrhly paymaus of P. and I. based on apurchase pric(' of$)1,990 wirh 10% down and a30-ycar 7.375 A.R.M. 

Co11gratulatio11s 011 the achieveme11t of your educatio11al goal. We wish you success a11d prosperity. May God co11ti11ue to bless you. 
With Our Love, Mom, Dad, Stacee & Shellee 

·VIEWPOINT 
page 18 Friday, May 17, 1996 
THE OBSERVER 
NoTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1996-97 General Board 

Editor-in-Chief Elizabeth Foran Managing Editors Business Manager Patricia Carson Matt Casey Tom Roland 
News Editor ........................ Brad Prendergast Advertising Manager ........................... EIIen Ryan Viewpoint Editor.................. Meaghan Smith Ad Design Manager ..............................jed Peters Sports Editor ........... .Timothy Sherman Production Manager...................... Tara Grieshop Accent Editor .......................... Joey Crawford Systems Manager ............................ Sean Galla van 
Saint Mary's Editor ................ Caroline Blum Controller ......................................... Tyler Weber Photo Editor ......................... Michael Ruma 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the Universiry of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. h does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administra­tion of either institucion. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned edi­torials represent the opinion of the majoriry of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Columns present the views of the aurhors, and nor necessarily those ofThl:! Observer. Viewpoint space is available ro all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's com­muniry and to all readers. The free expression of varying opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 

Editor-in-Chief 631-4542 · Business Office 631-5313 Managing Editor/Viewpoint 631-4541 Advertising 631-6900/8840 Spans 631-4543 Systems/Marketing Dept. 631-8839 News/Phoco 631-5323 Office Manager 631-7471 Accenr/Saint Mary's 631-4540 Fax 631-6927 Day Editor/Production 631-5303 Viewpoint E-Mail Viewpoinr.l@nd.edu General Informacion 631-7471 Ad E-Mail observer@daiWin.cc.nd.edu 

• KEVORKIAN KORNER 
Irony lurks in the Alumni newsletter 
Graduation, as everybody knows, is marked by relief and festivity. As with weddings, the future lay beyond. uncor­rupted by pain, compromise, or defeat; the road ahead is posited as a big loop­ing slide into a barrel of Cool Whip, and hardships are as metaphysics. That's okay with me; as Dr. Johnson said, hope may be the main species of happiness this world affords, and far be it for me 

Josh Ozersky 
to kill everybody's commencement buzz. 
But, as O.J. says, "I want to tell you." 
(Hang on to OJ, by the way. I think that the OJ verdict will turn out to be one of those things, like the Kennedy assassination, by which old cockers identify each other by -in lieu of Masonic hand-signals, that is.) 
I want to tell you that unlike Du Lac, the Patty O'Hara -GLND/SMC brawl, or the failure of your student body presi­dents to bring the Grateful Dead here as promised, walking the plank of the good ship Notre Dame is an event you can't laugh ofT. No longer can you comfort­ably snort at the mawkish sentimentality which surrounds Notre Dame; within a few short years. even the toughest of you may sit misty-eyed at your check­books, writing love notes to the endow­ment and hoping for nosebleed seats in an unrecognizable stadium. 
This never happened to me only because I went to Rutgers, a state uni­versity honeycombed with graduate stu­dents, part-timers, and other melan­choly links to the outside world. There wasn't the same sense of place that there is here at Notre Dame, and hence no comparable loss when we were cut loose to make a living and live by our­selves. Even so, the experience came as a shock. Ah, it was romantic at first! Your first apartment is a kind of stage set for your new life in the first months. But instead of having an apartment or room next door with five of your friends sitting around drinking, you find a preoccupied stranger who works on his car all the time. Instead of it being a short walk to the dining hall, you have to cook for yourself -and then, when you don't clean it, bury the stuff in a landfill to avoid the resultant bacterial cultures. It's funny when you live in Campus View or someplace to live on found objects -big spools for tables, etc. -but when it is really your home, as opposed to a kind of live-in bar stool, you begin to feel oppressed. Old. And you stop throwing away those letters from the alumni association. 
I guess that is how it works for Notre Dame students. Maybe I'm wrong. I'm constantly underestimating how well­adjusted (and rich!) students are here. A lot of them get married when they graduate, too. That's something to think about. 
But where is that place in the outside world in which you can be a full-grown man or woman, without the spectre of failure beating its invisible wings over­head? Where is the job in which you set your own hours, and are asked to pro­duce nothing more than evidence of your own interest? Where is that place where there is a single man for every woman, a single woman for every man, and identical frames of reference upon which to start a hopeful conversation? Where is the place where .prize young behemoths arrive every year to stir dreams of a championship? 
Nowhere. But you can go too far eulo­gizing college life. You don't have a lot of freedom, and even at Rutgers, where every dorm room had a five foot bong, there was a sense of containment and discontent. And when you do move out into the world, you will find small soli­tary pleasures -the absurdity of Mary Worth, the taste of powerful coffee, solo walks amid an abandoned propeller fac­tory (rare), the precise and self-indul­gent measurement of a lunch hour into minutes of eating, walking, reading the newspaper (unheard of in college), and reading menus in the windows of likely restaurants. Wandering aimlessly via public transport, finding new vices, befriending elderly boozers in the de­crepit new bars the decrepit new you will discover in months and years to come. 

When you graduate, you will go to mass or not, and have to answer for the choice; you will lose contact with your friends from high school if you haven't already, and. when inebriated, experi­ence acute and bitterly pleasurable nostalgia. You will gain or lose weight. Your ego will take a beating. You will change. 
A change for me, too: I should also mention here that I will be losing you as readers, which is something of a blow. I'm not like the Registrar. Incoming stu­dents don't take the place of seniors. Freshmen don't read the Viewpoint page, or slap me on the back in Club 23, or send me e-mails telling me what an imbecile I am, or any of the other sweet rewards of writing for a real community. I started writing this column three years ago, and while I figure to be writing it for some years to come, there is no replacing those first three years, the years I built my place here at Notre Dame. I never knew, when I suggested we forfeit the game to Florida State to protest the plight of Haiti, that there was so little sense of irony among my read­ers; I guess part of it was the awkward and eccentric behavior of a stranger try­ing to be the life of the party. It means a lot to me that so many of you eventually got on board and read and/or enjoyed the column. God bless you all -and I say that without an atom of irony. 
Josh Ozersky is a graduate student in the Department of History. His email address is Joshua.A.Ozersky.l@nd.edu. 
• 000NESBURY GARRY TRUDEAU 
I ... I 5UDt:J&NLY ffJ55113l.Y! GOTTA c:AN'T7/3U. YOU Ffl3l.-A tub'U­fYJ.YlH& ITHA? 57/?.ANG/3 f/NIJOUT 8/U<J.I N&VAliA Sflo6AT/ON, AFT!51<7H~ H&AR. PLAW5... Rf(jf{T~ I 8R/!3F MI3G-Ya./. \ 
I 
5Ali5! 
I 
• QuoTE OF THE DAY 
"The human brain starts 
working the moment you are born and never stops until you stand up to speak in pub­lic." 
-Sir George Jessel 


VIEWPOINT
Friday, May 17 page 19 
• LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Tracing the chronology of a graduating senior 
American opinion taints study results 
Dear Editor: 
H1H:1mtly I was handnd the newspaper called flight Reason. I hngan rnading thn letter from the ~~ditor-in-chief, Daniel Moloney, and was imnwdiately struck and incensed by his morally judg­nwntal attitude toward gay people, as well as his explanation for why pnople tmgage in homosexual activity. lie says, "Human sexu­ality is diiTerent from animal sexuality in that humans control tlwir s1~xual appntites by their reason and will." lie proceeds to 1:omparn mod1~rn homosexual men with ancient Athenian homo­SilXual mnn. who, he claims, because of their litflrature and soeial customs, wern compelled toward "peculiar tast11s." Thus, accord­ing to Moloney, homosexuality was for the Athenians, as well as modllrn man, the rnsult of pure acculturation and "mental habits." Contrary to Molon1~y's diagnosis of homosexuality, though are sci­entific studies whieh show that although homosexuality is proba­bly aiTnetml by environment to some degree, genetics do in fact inll!wnee orw's sexual orientation. Hnseareh done as recently as IIJ'J:! by a renowned scientist, Dean Ilamer, shows that homosexu­ality is lind to variations on the X (speeifieally Xq28) chromosome of homosexual men. As greater advances in science are made, resnardwrs hop1~ to find the exact gene which influences sexual orinntation. 
MolotHlY also points out that if homosexuality were genetieally dillnrmirwd. it would imply that humans laek "free choke of the will." lluman lwings are creatures who are to some extent influ­mH:ml by glllllllies in everything we do. We are not only intellective bPings, hut possnss brains and bodies creatnd by gnnetic material. Thus, if homosllXuality is partially the result of genetics and is dnWrmirwd in thn same way as raee or body structure, the ques­tion of tlw "frne ehoiee of will" is only partially valid. 
Thn largnr issues at hand, though, an~ tlHJ diserimination and intoleranre impos1~d upon homosexuals by people like Moloney. lie compares the homosexual to the woman caught in adultery in tlw hook of John. saying, " ... after sparing the adulterer by sham­ing those who would have stoned her, he (.Jesus Christ) directs her to go and sin no morn.' lie protects her from the harmful judge­nwnt of others, hut requires that she change hnr ways. We can ask no morn of our homosexual neighbors, and no less." The homosexual today, however, doesn't have Jesus Christ for protec­tion from thosn who judge him -who call him "peculiar" and dmnand him to change that whieh is innatn to his being. Jesus is not lwrn to proteet the homosexual from the stonns of judgement thrown by Moloney and people who have no God-given justifica­tion for tlw judgement they inrlict. Hather than homosexuals changing tlwmstdves, what is needed is tlw change to a morn tol­erant. accnpting and diverse community here at the University of Notn~ Danw and in the world as a whole. 
ERIN LUM 
Frc~hman 
Knoll Hall 

• 
In 19'12, you arrivnd on the eampus of Tlw llniVIlrsity of Notre Dame, ner­vous and widtHlyed. You were now a frps(unan in eollPgn and life was rela­tivPly simplP. You made frinnds that you wnrn ePrtain you would have forever, dining hall food was good, dorm parties Wllrn a blast, Papa John's was a gift 
Krista Nannery 
from {;od and Calculus would take ten ynars oiT your life. but so what. Off-cam­pus was a fon~ign, mysterious land whoSil only landmarks were CJ's and Tlw University Park Mall. Things were llitlwr in orw direction or the other, but eithllr way, Anwrican Cab and your Fn~qtwnt Hidnr Card would take you tlwre. flllatively safnly or chnaply, never hot h. S u fll you were homesick, but Frtlshrnan Ynar of Studies kept you busy llllOUgh that you lwgan to forget about honw and mom and dad, if only for a lit­till whiltL College was cool and you couldn't wait to b11 a sophomore. 
You found yourself an altnrnative form or idnntifieation sophomore year and Bridgnt's was the place to be. FSU was onn of the most exciting days of your eollngn earner, dorm parties were lnss random. len beer was thn beer to drink and fighting frostbite became a daily oceupation. You went to your first niT eampus party and swore l'ight then and there to move off campus as soon as was humanly possible. You declared your major, you switched your major, you and what seemed like the rest of the sophomore dass all dropped pre-med at the same time. It seemed like you had known your roommates forever, and together, you couldn't wait to be juniors. You were a sophomore; life was simple and good. 
Junior year, you boycotted "The Shirt" beeause of its hideous green eolor, or, if you did buy it, your mother now wears it as gardening attire. .JPW was one of the best weekends in you and your parnnts' lives and thn words of our junior elass president will stiek in your mind forever. Unfortunately, everyone but you seernod to turn 21 by second semester, so on weekends you were forced to divide your time between penny beer night at Bridgers and sneak-
O'Hara offers best wishes to '96 grads 
Dear Editor: I would like to take this opportunity to extend my prayers and best wishes to the members of the Class of 1996. Commencement is a time of 
many mixed emotions. Pride in your aehievements, excitement and apprehen­sion about new beginnings, happiness 
and sadness all-come together as you prepare to leave. 
For those of you who are graduating Seniors, I hope that we have achieved our goal of providing you with an edu­cation that integrates the life of the mind with the life of the heart. May your commitment to your faith in God and to the service of God's people match your dedication to your chosen vocation and profession. We have high expectations of our graduates. The tremendous contribution that our alumni make to society and to the Church is a testa­ment to tbe importance of these high expecta­tions . 
. For those of you leaving with graduate and pro­fessional degrees, I hope that you will carry with you the best of our traditions as they relate to your discipline. If you bring to your chosen field a strong set of ethical convictions and a eommitment to justice. you will represent the very best of Notre Dame. 
Finally, a note of gratitude to all of you. You not only take from here; you also give. You have made a variety of contributions to your fellow students, to the University and to those of us who remain behind to assist students who will follow you. 
May Our Lady, Notre Dame, continue to watch over you in the years ahead. We are blessed to have you as members of the Notre Dame family. 
PATRICIA O'HARA Vice Presidem for S1udent Affairs 
Honesty remains the best policy 
Dear Editor: 
I am very grateful for The Observer's promi­nent and respectf\11 coverage of my recent lec­ture on sexual diversity. However, the story in the April 26 issue contained a few errors that I would like to correct. I did not suggest that "honesty is crucial to fostering sexual diversi­ty," as stated in the story's lead. Neither I nor 
·any other member of the gay and lesbian com­munity has any interest in fostering sexual diversity. A more accurate paraphrase might have stated that I believe honesty to be the first step toward greater tolerance of sexual 
ing in side doors at other establishments on other nights. You still managed to get all your work done, but sometimes, it was hard to believe that you would be graduating in just one more year. You didn't want to be a senior because that meant being old, finding a job or gradu­ate school, and moving on. You couldn't imagine leaving Notre Dame. 
In 1995, you became a senior and your whole world began to change. You lost a friend and feared losing more or even losing yourself. The future was a scary concept and although you tried hard not show it, as the months went on, it became more and more difficult to deal with the inevitabilities of jobs, rela­tionships, and decisions that just had to be made. You wanted it to be simple, like it used to be, without any regrets or missed opportunities. You wanted it to be fun. So you went to the Linebacknr and made the most of it. But it wasn't enough. 
And now tomorrow, in 1996, approx-diversity, and toward a more compassionate and loving environment for all students. 
I also wanted to correct the spelling of the word "berdache," in case some •·eaders are interested in finding out more about this tradi­tional role in many Native Amnrican cultures. 
Thank you again for your coverage and sen­sitivity. 
MARGARET BENDER Visi1ing Instructor Depanment ofSociology, Anthrop<)logy and Social Work Saint Mary's College 
imatnly $100,000 and four "The Shirt's" later, you are graduating. It is possible that you'rn heading horne almost imme­diately aftnr thn cnrmnony, away from Notre Dame, away from your friends and away from four of the bnst and most memorable years of your life. With the slam of a door and start of an engine, it's all over. You am literally closing the door on a lil'e-direetion defining chapter of your life. 
For some of you, it may be fifteen or twenty years before you set foot on cam­pus again and see some of the people who were once the most important peo­ple in your lifo. But from past experi­ences, you know for cnrtain that, when you do come back, it will be like you never left. The campus may have changed and the people may be unfamil­iar, but it will still he the Notre Dame that's been in your hnart and mind for­ever. You are now older and wiser than that freshman who arrivnd on campus in August, 1992 but somfltimns, this week­end in partieular, you'd do anything just to be that frnshman again in order to truly appreciate all thn simple things that have made you what you are today. 
Good luck, God Bless, may the road rise up to meet you and may the wind b1~ always at yoL•r back. 
Krista Nunnery is a graduating senior originally from Lony Island. Nt•u• York. An English/German major, Krista ser11ed as The Obser11er's Acrent Editor from February 1995 to Mardi 1996..\'ht• now resides with her family in Fort Lauderdale, Florida and is actively seeking any form of intelligent occupa· tion. 




ACCENT
page 20 Friday, May, 17, 1996 

• ACCENT ASKS••• 
What was your most memorable experience at Notre Dame? 

"The most memorable ones are the ones I don't remember." 
Kevin Dolan St. Ed's, Government 

"Circus Lunch!' 
Jerry Siefring Zahm, Communications 

. 
• •• ' • lo ••••••• ~ ' "' ' •• 
d 


"Spring break in Jamaica." 
Francesca Pons Pasquerilla West, Art History 

"Florida State." 
Joy Fitzgerald Howard, Psychology 



"The bouncer got shot at Heartland." 
Larry Caudillo Morissey, Psychology 

"The skirt of my cave woman costume fell off at the Halloween SYR at Stanford." 
Meg Stafford Badin, Mathematics 

/ 

By JOEY CRAWFORD 
Accent Editor 
T
here are some things that just don't change at Notre Dame: the perennial bad weather, the football, and the quality of the academics. But the face of the univer­sity is constantly evolving to fit the stu­dents needs. During the four years in which the class of 1996 have been attending the university, the face of the Unive·rsity of Notre Dame has changed drastically since the time of their arrival as nervous little freshmen. Some of these changes are more "superficial" than others, while others will have a drastic effect upon Notre Dame for years to come. 
The most obvious changes are the renovations that seem to be plaguing our campus. were built, dorms were moved, domes were encrypted with scaffolding. a major goal of the administration over the past few years. 
During the summer prior to the arrival of the class of 1996, Pangborn Hall was changed from a men's dorm into a women's dorm. For many of the incoming freshmen who spent their pre-orientation in this dorm rich in tradition, the switch was a bit disheartening, for it was the only place they knew really well. Two years later, another men's dorm met the admin­istration's wrath. Historical Cavanaugh was converted into a women's residence hall as well, ousting many disgruntled stu­dents from heart and home. These conver­sions were met with the inevitable protests, but the administration argued that the moves were necessary to support the recent influx of more women into the uni­versity. This year aiso marks the final year of Grace. Administration offices plan on moving into the building before the 1996-97 year. Other dorms waiting for their demise include Flanner, Seigfried and Knott. 
Construction has taken the campus by storm, affecting everything from the sacred Golden Dome to the mythical Notre Dame football stadium. DeBartolo Hall, the realm of high-tech education, yet no one seems to know the intricacies of the building func­tion, was built a year before the arrival of thb years Senior crop. However, first class to use DeBartolo. Some have won­dered if the "Debartelo experience" was worth it, arguing "Nothings seems to ever work." years later the College of Administration (COBA) building was built next to Debartelo to support the increasing number of business students and to house cutting edge tech­nology in the world of business. nessed their precious Golden Dome and stadium undergo major facelifts, both of which are not com­pleted to this day. The architecture building is also undergoing construction and renovations. In addi­tion to all of this construction, new dorms are being built in the "Golf Quad" to accommodate the ousted students of Grace, Seigfried, and Knott. 
In efforts to make the campus more culturally rich, a number of "gaudy pieces of art" have been "planted" around the campus. South quad has taken the burden of becoming a "mock art muse­um" featuring art from students and teachers alike. The "era of transition" seems to be directed towards the southern end of campus. Shelby Brown argues, "Maybe they should do something about Stepan Center on the North Side, like tear it down." 
Jeff Wojcik of Flanner Hall asserts that their seems to be more interest in student relations since he arrived here four years ago. He claims, "It seems like their is more student dialogue, not only dealing with student life, but worldly issues. When I first got here all of the columns in the Observer focused on yo cream flavors, the salad bar, and abortion. recently they have been shying away from these topics as was seen through Cristiane Likely and GLND/SMC issues." He also argues, "Student Government, through the work of J.P. and Dennis, is trying to get ideas across a little more than they used to." 
St. Edward's hall resident, Kevin Dolan has noticed some musical taste changes, but assures that the character of the students has been basical­ly the same, "When I first got here, everyone lis­tened to Pearl Jam at parties, and now everyone listens to Dave Matthew's." He also speculates that a major change in the student body may be just around the corner, with the emergence of the sons 
and daugh­ters of women graduates. He claims, 'This is going to make a big change ten or fifteen years down the road." 
Some students, however do not see the changes as being so obvious. Flanner Senior, Marcus Thorne states, "Sure the campus has been expand­ing, but it is basically the same. The people are the same, race issues are handled the same, every­thing just seems to be the same. They talk about co-residentially, but this will never happen." He has however noticed the administration's attempts to include athletes in post-graduation scholarships. 
Many students are fearful that they will not rec­ognize the campus a few years down the line. They recognize the importance of expansion, but perhaps this is too extreme. They do not want to come return in two years and not recognize the campus. The issue is prevalent in many graduat­ing students' mind, "Does the university have the right to make such drastic changes over such a short amount of time?" After all this is not the same campus to which they applied. 
ACCENT
Friday, May 17, 1996 page 21 

MElANIE WATERS 
· ranr Accent Editor 
hile the Class of 1996 will soon pro­ceed into graduation ceremonies to the tune of "Pomp and Circumstance," a more appropriate anthem might be Abba's "Dancing 
A look hack at the "best" memories of the lor dass rnveals the secrets of the finest off~ 1pus walllring holes, the craziest underelass party toea­tions, and 

tiors, the fondest memorills of thn last four (or 
I) ynars rnvolvn around time spent in the com­ly of friends at SYH's, formals, parties, and hts out on the town. When asked to name one g that epitomizes the SYH or jukebox tastes of snnior dass, snvnral seniors adamantly chose aforementioned disco favorite. Senior class sident Knvin Kuwik summed up the spirit of the ss of 1996 with Bruce Springsteen's "Glory rs." while ll not-surprising number of votes nt to thn immortally sing-along inducing words rtw Four Snasons' "December 1963" (aka "Oh tnt a Night.) Alumni-Senior Club deejays helped tntrnduce a rncnnt senior class dance trend with 1 l>nl Hio's "La Marcarena," otherwise known as Lt dance that looks something like the hokey­ktly with a lot more hip action and arm place­mts that are complex enough to make the ine­
iated look really ridiculous. Still others picked nmy Buffett's soothing and romantic serenade, fhy Don't Wn c;et Drunk." ,;peaking of which, the Class of 1996 will take 
with them many fond memories (or lack thereoO of South Bend's popular drinking establishments. Most of the votes were split between Senior Bar and Coach's, although senior cheerleader Ken Oliphant gives his loyalties to Bridget's. The s•miors will also miss CJ's Monday night specials and 1/2 pound burgers, with other favorite specials including Tuesdays at Coach's and the "special" and loving atmosphere of the beloved Linebacker. 
When asked to look back at the days before the big 21, or at least before they got a respectable ID, seniors were equally. split on the best dorm for undergrad parties. Of course, most of the men surveyed picked their own dorms, but the ladies seemed to waver between Sorin and Flanner/Grace parties. Sorin RA Andrew DiCello attributes the popularity of Sorin parties to the made-for-party quint on the first floor and the tradition-laced "Otter Hoom" on the third floor, both with space enough for more people than should ever be crammed into one room, tall windows to dance in, and built-in "entertainment centers" that double as a bar and a dance floor. 
As far as single-event off-campus parties go, seniors offered a wide selection of favorites. Many picked the recent Pig Tostal '96, while others went with St. Pal's Park and PigTostal '94. Turtle Creek residents evidently provided some interesting party moments, with several senior citing TurtleTostal and the fall "Hally in the Alley" as the best off­campus gatherings of the past four years. 
What would four years at Notre Dame be without football? Not surprisingly, two particular games stood out as the most memorable for the senior class. Many chose the "Snow Bowl" of freshman year as the Irish defeated Penn State in the final meeting between the two teams, while others tri­umphantly remember the story that the score­board told as Notre Dame defeated Florida State 31-24 in November of 1993. Senior Christian Shields chose this year's Navy game as the most memorable, since it marked the last home game for the Class of 1996. 
With football memories often come road trips, and many of the best road trips seemed to involve this year's Ohio State game. Other seniors pre­ferred the warmer temperatures of the Orange Bowl, while some simply enjoyed road tripping to Chicago to take a much needed break from South Bend. 
Fearing the loss of secrecy, most seniors were reluetant to reveal the craziest thing they did dur­ing their four years at Notre Dame. However, some candid answers involved streaking, kegs, famous campus statues, and poker. You figure them out. 
On a more reflective note, the seniors surveyed were asked to recall the best show of class spirit or unity. Some picked Junior Parent's Weekend, while Walsh senior Catherine Hanson noted the irreplaceable bonding experienee of camping out at the JACC for football tickets complete with an early morning visit from Coach Lou Holtz. Kuwik picked both the class mass in memory of senior Hob Adams and the Alumni-Senior Club fundraiser for Mandy Abdo that brought in over $4,000. Band President Jeff Catalina chose the band's benefit concert for fellow member Kurt Weiss. 
From the graffiti dance to graduation, the Class of 1996 has evolved together and woven countless memories over the last four years. Looking back on their first impressions as freshmen, several seniors remember laughing at that "parietals thing" until they found out that no, they weren't kidding. Arriving in South Bend from sunny locales like Texas and California, many seniors remember asking themselves, "What am I doing in Indiana??" However, many shared the sentiments of DiCello who remembers, "I loved it right off the bat." Kuwik remembers that he felt "a lot of spirit, a lot of tradition, and a lot of quality people," which the Class of 1996 certainly embodied in their unforgettable years at Notre Dame. 
• ACCENT ASKS ••• 
How would you de-scribe your class in three words? 

"My second family" 
Tim Sullivan Off-Campus, Government 
"Sex doesn't kill." 
Stephanie Butler Pasquerilla East, Chemical Engineering 

'? 


"Bud-weis-er." 
Bill Moore Dillon, Finance 

"Hot Badin Chicks." 
Brad Joseph Dillon, Finance 



"Thanks for everything:' 
Noreen Hefferon Lyons, History 
-

"Four Profuse Years:' 

...
Amy Schulte Pasquerilla East Chemical Engineering 
ACCENT 
page 22 Friday, May 17, 1996 
-
... 
~-· 
• AccENT AsKs••• 
What •1s your 
fondest Saint 
Mary's memory? 


"The friends I've made over the past five years." 
Betsy Killian Towanda, Ill. Business 

"Drinking Guiness in pubs 
while abroad on the Saint 
Mary's Ireland program." 
Kelly McDevott Brooklyn Center, Minn. Political Science 



"Always having your friends to talk with at three in the morning." 
Robin Bennett Las Vegas, Nev. Elementary Education 

"Moving up in the world. CJ's to Club-what a dif­ference!" 
Jenna Farley Chicago, Ill. Sociology 



"The grand finale of 
senior week:' 
Anne Herrman Hays, Kan. Elementary Education 

"Meeting Beth, my favorite roommate in the world." 
Rita Juster Placentia, Calif. Biology 



First graduating class of Saint Mary's College, 1904, at Angela Hall 
By LESLIE FIELD Saint Mary's Accent Editor 

P
arents and friends from across the country drive down the tree lined avenue to see their loved one from the Saint Mary's class of 1996 gradu­ate. They recall freshman orienta­tion and the heat that accompanied that frantic weekend. Mothers and fathers assembled lofts, hung Dave Matthew's Band posters and made countless trips to Target to purchase any and every stackable, hookable or stickable they could get their hands on. But this weekend, they return to Saint Mary's for one last visit; a visit filled with great pride and hope for the future. Parents and graduates have had these feelings about Saint Mary's during graduation for many years. In fact, this is the 149th gradu­ation from Saint Mary's. Although the values and standards of the school may not have changed over the years, the school itself certainly has. It has grown immensely, just as its graduates have. Taking a look back provides gradu­ates and their families and friends the opportunity to see how Saint Mary's commence­ment has changed through­out the years, as they reflect on the many ways their graduates have also . changed during their four years at Saint Mary's. 
In 1881, parents com­ing to Saint Mary's for graduation experienced something quite differ­ent from the outdoor commencement cere­mony today. Those attending the exercis­
. es walked the grounds beforehand, stopping to see the prorogation house. Here, mor than thirty thousand exotic plants were located. Today, they would be walking in Regina South. And the gradua­tion would not be from college, but from Saint Mary's Academy, considered a premiere preparatory school for women. Its academics were so strong that Lena Brady, a Saint Mary's Academy graduate of 1899, applied to the University of Michigan and was accepted as a Sophomore with forty credits, a true accom­plishment for anyone, especially a woman of the nineteenth century. In 1906, however, Mother Pauline, Saint Mary's President from 1895-1931, established Saint Mary's College. The 1906 commencement ceremonies may have given graduates ~e same sense of accom­plishment that they feel today, but the circum­stanc~s surrounding the ceremony were very different. Today, Saint Mary's students take great pride in the tradition of their class ring. In the earlier days of the college, however, it was the gold cross which students strived to earn. Upon graduation, the ornate, heavy gold cross pin was handed to each graduate in the same manner as the diploma is today. 
In 1916, commencement speaker Max Pam was invited to speak at graduation by Mother Pauline and former Notre Dame President, Fr. Cavanaugh. He had prepared notes but, upon entering the auditorium told the audience that, "the notes became entirely useless. Never before did I enter an atmosphere like this. It 
photos courtesy of Saint Mary's Archives 
was an inspiration, and, in truth, an experience that I will forever endure. If the men engaged in the activities of the material in life could only ­come here as I have, they would at once feel and appreciate what the expression of soul means." Pam's address was followed by an essay reading of Miss Houran, a graduate, enti­tled, "The Absolute Standard of Scholarship." 
In previous years, commencement cere­monies have been held everywhere form Saint Angela's Hall, located where Angela Athletic Facility stands today, to The Church of Loretto. The ceremonies were much longer from the early to middle 1900's, as they were filled with many student addresses and music from the music conservatory. Graduates, dressed in white, listened to the thesis of Genevieve O'Neil in 1931. The thesis was ahead of its time, addressing Lope de Vega Nationalized, "The 
Spanish Drama." 
That same year, Estelle Reeland 
read her thesis entitled, "The Moral 
Purpose in Livy's History." Saint 
Mary's strict academic stan­
dards have remained through­
out the years. 

In 1984, commencement 
speaker Abigail McCarthy, 
a columnist for 
Commonwealth and a 
woman's rights 
activist spoke, com­
ting on the same 
of academic and 
nal accomplish­
which is present 
Saint Mary's today. 
I firmly believe that 
his engagement in 
attempt for excel­
is what sustains 
e most well-lived 
d satisfying, suc­
sful lives," 
claimed. 
xcellence. 
eather it is in the classroom, with their families or pursuing their own dreams, Saint Mary's graduates act with excellence in all they do. Commencement, fac­ing LeMans, surrounded by the grand trees lin­ing the Avenue, is a time to reflect on the part of history which has been made by each student in their unique class. Former graduation mar­shall Richard Pilger, Notre Dame class of '54, said, "It's the personal closeness we have that makes the difference." He points out the rarity of each student receiving a diploma individual­ly. And the one hour forty-five minute ceremo­ny pleases many people, too. 
Today, students continue the expression of soul at Saint Mary's. Through their efforts in the world of academics to the friendships which will last for the rest of their lives, graduates can be proud of their accomplishments and secure in their futures, not because they have jobs or a place to live, but because they have learned the arts of friendship, strength, and self accom­plishment. They have learned how to live right in a world which requires many skills of the mind, the heart and the soul. 1990 Valedictorian Amanda Zenk ended her address by telling her class, "Me han tocado el cora­zoo." You have touched my heart, she said. Saint Mary's, you have touched many hearts. 
Special thanks to Sister Roseline of Saint Mary's Archives. 
Friday, May 17, 1996 The Observer· SPORTS page 23 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. 
Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
Classifieds 
NOTICES 
Michiana Patntball · If you've never played you'll love the game. If you've played before, you'll love the field. 291-9462 
Are you OVERWORKED? 
Are you UNDERPAID? 
Are you graduating WITHOUT a 
JOB ? Let's TALK, 273-3804 
WANTED 
ND/SMC/Holy Cross Students 
SUMMER 
WORK 
$10.25 to start 
National company expanding local­
ly. Scholarships. Possible 
interns/co-ops. Build your resume. 
Call office nearest your hometown. 
SOUTH BEND 219-282-2357 
FORT WAYNE 219-471-6113 
INDIANAPOLIS 317-767-5416 
MERRILLVILLE 219-769-2352 
LAFAYETIE 317-449-1954 
BLOOMINGTON 812-339-3966 
KOKOMO 317-454-8840 
TERRE HAUTE 812-231-6824 
EVANSVILLE 812-428-6675 
Looktng lor a JOB in South Bend? 
Life Treatment Center needs a 
male, non-drinktng, ND student as 
a llve-m house manager. Rent is 
free Call J1m at 239-6418 lor Info. 
HELP -NEED GRAD TIX$$$ 
ALISA-271-8346 
Wanted: Back 1ssues of JUBILEE, 
Catholic magaztne pub. 5/53 to 
9/68. Ralph Gustafson 3 Mich. St. 
Apt n1 Valparaiso, IN 46383. 465­
1699 
A SUMMER OF PLAY FOR PAYI 
ND couple ('83) seeks energetic, 
lovmg, fun summer nanny for our 
sons. Phtla, PA Ma1n Line area. 
800-523-1036 X15907 
Female roommate for summer school and/or '96-'97 school year. Turtle Creek, 2 bedrm apt., part. furnished, AIC, $260/month, N/S pref. Call Laura @ 273-5890 ASAP for more details! 
Need someone to share your 
rent 111 Chicago this summer? 
Please help me lind somewhere 
to sleepll ASAP Amy 284-4344 
Grad student looktng lor summer 
tutonng work · vanety ages/sub­
jects, me. english. contact heather 634-4527; alter 10 may, 256-9175 
FOR RENT 
Mishawaka, clean upstairs 
1 bedroom apartment, no 
smokers, $300/month, open 
June 1 . call alter May 8 255­
4766 
2 HOUSES IN SAFE AREAS NEAR ND. 
ONE W/6 BEDRMS; ONE W/5 BDRMS. EXCEL. COND. READY FOR 96-97 SCHOOL YR. CALL MARK KRAMER 289-5999 OR 255-9471 
IRISH CO B&B REGISTRY 
Stay at the "MOOSE KRAUSE 
HOUSE" or other approved homes. Grad · Football games 
219-277-7003 
ROOM FOR RENT 
$295 1ncl utilities and extras! Great locationll 232-8953 
Living In Chicago lor the summer? We (two guys ND95) need a sum­mer roommate from June to mid­August. In the heart of Lincoln Park (best neighborhood). Two blocks from lake and two steps from bus stop. call Tom (312) 528-1432 
Cozy Furnished Student Apts -large 1 bedrm, $330 -small 1 bedrm, $260 755 South Bend Ave 1 block west of ND Ave deposit, references 1-800-582-9320 
OAK HILL CONDO 2 BDR/ 2 BATH/ LOFT $665/ MONTH JUNE 1-MAY 31 CALL MRS. MARCHIOLO (818) 968-7030 
MISHAWAKA EFFICIENCY $ 255 MO.& LIGHTS. SUNNY 3RM.2ND FLOOR;QUIET BLD. 1 ADUL T,NO PETS,BUS LINE. 259-6050. 
RM FOR FALL '96/SPR '97 $250, FURNISHED, 5-MIN DRIVE. 232-7175. 
GRADUATION COTIAGE & RESIDENCES NEAR N.D. @ $60/NIGHT-& AVAILABLE FOR SCHOOL YEAR. 272-1968. 
2 & 3 BDRM HOMES NEAR CAM­PUS. GILLIS PROPERTIES 272­6306 
DISCOUNTED & FURNISHED APARTMENT FOR RENT THIS SUMMER @ COLLEGE PARK. CALL JEN, NICOLE, OR SARAH @ 273-1738 
CHICAGO 
Sublet -1 bedrm Apt. on Lake in Gold Coast lor 5/96-6/96. $610. (918)459-8701 or 4-1289 
Summer Sublet: Large home near campus. Available mid­June to mid-August. Price negotiable. 237-0545 
BED AND BREAKFAST OPEN HOUSE Sat, May 18, lor ND-SMC parents 
& alumni lor football season. This home is one of several located near ND. Call 
(219) 272-0820 to take a look. Offered through: Home Base Bed and Breakfast Alliance (219) 271-0989 
FOR SALE 
1421 N. Oak Hill Dr., condo, two lull baths, walk to ND, finished lower level, all appliances, garage, one­owner, $76,900, 277-8898 
CONDO for sale. Oakhill. 2B/B. Loft. Part. turn. Close to N.D. $71,900 or B.O. (W)50B-432-6281 (H)508-432-4147 
Waterfront Condos 
1 Bedrooms from $52,000 
2 Bedrooms from $80,000 New Decor 
EVERYTHING included Close to Notre Dame 
BEAUTIFUL! 
NORTH SHORE CLUB 232-2002 
Europe $199 OW Caribbean/Mexico $189 AT & Domestic Destinations Cheap!l IF YOU CAN BEAT THESE PRICES START YOUR OWN 
DAMN AIRLINE! Air-Tech Ltd. 2121219-7000 info@ aerotech.com http://campus.neVaerotech 
1991 Jeep Cherokee Sport 2D 4WD Stick, White, Cruise control, towing package, fog lights, tendo lover, Top condition: $1 0,500 Call: 684-2665 between 6-Bpm. 
1973 Volkswagen Bug Good condition o new paint runs well o fun car for those who demand roundness in their automo­biles! $2200 OBO o 273-6260 
VERTICAL BLINDS FOR SALE-2 SETS (CURRENTLY @ COLLEGE PARK CONDOS) CALL 273-1738 
85 FORD LTD. $1200/bo, 113,000 miles. Call Maha @ 277-8371. 
TICKETS 
HELP! I need at least four GRADUATION TICKETS. Please call if you know that you'll have an extra or 2. Thank You. Katie X4558 

PERSONAL 
0o0o0o0o0o0o0o0o0o0o0 
QUALITY COPIES, QUICKL VIII THE COPY SHOP LaFortune Student Center Phone 631-COPY 
0o0o0o0o0o0o0o0o0o0o0 
FAX IT FASTIII 
Sending & Receiving 
at 
THE COPY SHOP 
LaFortune Student Center 
Our Fax# (219) 631-FAX1 
FAX IT FASTIII 

Amy Weiher-Happy Graduation II Congratulations, sweetheart. t knew you could do it. I am so proud of you for all you have done and how hard you have worked. You are the most wonderful person on the planet, and I LOVE YOU II I cannot wait to start forever with you. Love always, Pat 
THE COPY SHOP 
LaFortune Student Center 

WE'RE OPEN ALL SUMMER! 
Our summer hours begin 
after finals are over 
on Saturday May 11 
Mon-Fri 8:30am-5:30pm 
CALL 631-COPY 
THE COPY SHOP 
LaFortune Student Center 
Jeff: 
Don't forget your underwear. 

GRADS! PARENTS! PICK UP THE BEST MOMENTO OF NOTRE DAME LIFE BEFORE YOU GOI 
"A WELL BALANCED MEAL" 

THE FIRST CARTOON COLLEC­
TION FROM FOUR FOOD 
GROUPS .... 

AVAILABLE AT HAMMES BOOK­
STORE AND LAFORTUNE INFO 
DESK 

*"*****"**To all the Stars*..****** 

of our senior Movie, I'm gonna miss ya'll sao much. After four years together, we finally had ten minutes of famell Best of Luck in life. I luv Ya. Buh-Byel Gretchen 
Multi und Valli Johnson, Thanks for 21 years of support and ecourage­ment. You've always given me such wonderful opportunities in life. Thank You, Love Always, Gretchen. 
To Danny Sullivan, The most spirited DAWG. Thanks 
for two years of much service, and 
much fun. God Bless 

The Men of Alumni 
HELP-NEED GRAD TIX$$$ 
ALISA-271-8346 

HAPPY BIRTHDAY TIM COR­
BETII 

HAPPY BIRTHDAY CHARITY 
BOGAN! LOOK OUT, THESE 
CRAZV KIDS ARE 211111 
Jebidiah Springfield says: 

A noble spirit embiggens even the 
smallest man. 

ADOPTION/A LOVING CHOICE Happily married, well-educated cou­ple will give your baby a loving, stimulating, financially secure home. Confidential, legal, expenses paid. Call Joni & Shep 800-528­2344 
BEST RATES 
for 
UPS 
Extended Hours 
During FINALS COUNTRY HARVESTER M-F 10-5 Sat 12-5 1-6714 
Ship thru 5-22-96 

Congratulations to all the members of that Gay, Lesbian, bisexual and Questioning Group that Dare not Speak its Name. We'll miss you and the other supportive members of the campus who have helped advance our rights in spite of an oppressive administration. You'll be in our prayers. 
COO-COO-KA-CHOO 

Casi Jones­You'd better watch your speed! love your fav gamblers 
Hans-You need new underwear. Garrett -Monkey? Did someone say monkey? Where's the monkey? Mike-Spilly. Tom and Steve-You're darks. See you next year. 
Casi Jones-
We'll always be missing ul And we'll be drinking a PBR 4 u on Mondays next yrl 
love gamblers 

Hey Knott Girls! I am going to miss all of you and our family dinners! Thank you for so many memories! Love, Your Link to Free Personals 
CONGRATULATIONS "A WELL BALANCED MEAL" PUBLISHED BY DAVID KELLETT 
SP95 LONDOMER 

To My Girlies-It has been the best four years of my life, and you mean the world to me. Thanks for your strength, sup­port, and loyally. From Chicago to KC to the East Coast, we will never be too far away to forget what we have become. 
I love you all! -Jen 

To Ad Design: I'm sure Jed will guide you to pro­ducing the best ads ever. Don't let Bryan and Alex fight too much, find a new "layout queen," and keep Shirley company for mel 
Good Luck! -Jen 

This is a special thankyou for all your special work: Jamie, Meags, Jen, Sam, Shelley and all you fabu­lous friends and supporters! Good Luck and Remember to Smile and be Proud!11! 
SABOR LATINO "A Concert for the Seniors and their Parents" 
Saturday May 18, 1996 La Fortune Ballroom 9:30pm -1 am SABOR LATINO 
Opening bands: "Mariachi ND" and "Tony y los Tones" SABOR LATINO 

CONGRATULATIONS SHEILA!!III Okay, so you're graduating, but you're missing out on seeing me this summer because I'm coming to visit everyone. Isn't that initiative in itself to stay???? 
Listen, are ya workin'??? 
Watch your holes. 

Hey you, I love you. Don't worry abou the future, it'll take care of itself, and you'll do fine cause your awesome. Don't ever feel pointless cause you mean a lot to so many people ( I can think of a couple). It's gonna be a good summer ..... Love, me 
It's time to move on It's time to get going what lies ahead I have no way of knowing but under my feet babe the grass is growing yeah its lime to move on ... time to get along 
Well we're ghosts in the eyes of all the boys you sent away they haunt this dusty beach road in the skeleton frames of burned out Chevrolets They scream your name at night in the streets your graduation gown lies in rages at their feet and in the lonely cool before dawn you hear their engines roaring on but when you get to the porch they're gone on the wind so Mary climb in It's a town for losers I'm pulling out of here to win 
Estonia Girl ­

I am going to miss you this sum­mer. I guess I have to write real let­ters now. Sheesh! 
-GE boy P.S.-Man, man, man, man, man, man, man. Hahl You can't charge me for writing it. :) Man, man ... 

Ken, Jeff, and Dan-Thanks guys for one hell of a year From the Tiger Claw right down to Cedar Point it's been a great ride. Here's wishing you all the best in everything, always, Dave 
Ken, Dan. Jeff­Don't any of you forget your under­wear. I wish you all the best of luck. I'll miss you guys! You know who (the one with caller ID ... ) 
LUCASII I'll miss you tough guy! But I bet they have putt-putt in Memphis and we'll be visiting .... and anyway you'll get so tired of my phone calls next year you won't get a chance to miss this place ... 
Hey Liz and Carolyn-Sorry I ditched on our last time to sing together this year. Can I still stand next to you guys in the fall? 
Bye Katie E.­l'lltry and keep control over the group while you're goner See ya next year. -Your Co-Sec 
Michelle-You made the offer, so you can't take it back when Ann and I tell you our crazy stories. We're coming to visit whether you like it or not. 
-Tara 
To all the lewis girls: Thank you for a terrific four years here. Thank God you needed a band-aid and I had four (albeit used ones): CHECK-BABY-CHECK GIRL If there ever was any girl I could relate to, it was you. Thank you for your concern during my tough times EUCLIDIAN GIRL Can this 2-D space even begin to describe what I feel for you? :) GUINNESS GIRL See what happens? I gel toasty and start telling you things. Shhhh ... I GUIDE IT WITH MY TONGUE GIRL Thank you for being you. You have influenced me in ways you don't even know. Sorry I flaked for a year. I value your friendship so much. Please, please keep in touch 
-WATERBOY 
Woodward-Taco Bell talk was fun and your card was great. You'll win a real Pulitzer someday (do they give those for sports?) 
--Bernstein 
Laura Merritt is by far my favorite senior in the world! --You are such a wonderful person who !love talking to about anything. Have a great time in Chicago. 
--Jamie 
Ug. 
I heard Turks have fascinating stamp collections. I also heard UP has great air conditioning. 
Wonder-Neil. 
It really is a beautiful thing. 
Norby, You may want to find that Rusty Wallace poster we used to have so you'll fit in down there. And you better get working on your NASCAR knowledge. I'm still won­dering though, how does one cover a car race? "And Dale Earnhardt took a wide turn so he lost." or is it like "After Luigi Italiano lost·control of his car, he died." But anyways, congrats on every­thing you've had going for you recently, good luck In the future (go Mildcats), and thanks for the cool trips (guacamole tacos as big as your head and !-shirts on the Observer) and everything else. 
Sherm 
This is how we do itllll 
It's a long season so MLB, watch­out for those underrated BoSox. You never really know when they're going to rip off about 37 straight. 
I heard from reliable sources that Dante Calabria is now a mortal lock to be the top-pick in June's NBA draft. The only question that remains is whether or not the lucky team will be able to afford all he commands. 
33 lines and still more room. God, I want to be home right now. 
I arn not a donut hole. 
Been running much there kidde. How the legs treating you. 
Brad's tired of people matronizing him. Those Observer women ... 
Ask Dave Murphy about them. 
I want the sun. 
We better start drinking if we're 
going to fill this space. 
I suggest Murphy's Irish Amber. 
But there's always Bud Ice Light. 
Hey Wings, BW3's is your punish­
ment. 
E.R. was over and I went to get money from LaFortune and the Basilica was playing the Alma Mater. I cried. 
Like swans flocking to San Juan 
Capistrano ... 
Fartey Rocks. 
I've already been drinking. I still 
can't fill this space. 
I am so afraid of living in oblivion. 
Congratulations lnnsbruck 1993-1994. May we always be as excited to be Demers as we were in Garmisch, November 13, 1993. Presti 
Good luck ObsP.rver Staff 1996-971 

Try as we may, we might never reach the talent level of that Lucas, Tyler, Nannery, Kolski, Norby and the like. We'll miss ya all, but it's on to greener pastures. Good luck in all you do. 
But then again, who says we can't 

do a better job than you guys did? 
Thak God the rain saved us from 
Cappocia without a shirt on. 
PLEASE HELPIIIIIIIII 
I need 1 ticket to the graduation 

ceremonies on Sunday. 
Call Kristi at x4220 
TICKETS-TICKETS-TICKETS 
God, sports is so tough. 
PC, I know you aren't here, but you'll read this in the fall. (Or perhaps I'll tell you about it later ... ) Don't be sad, you know how things aways work out. Just think of how fast eight weeks went by this semester. We have to party this summer In Indy. Hang in there BSP... DIL 
I will fill this space if it Is the last 
thing I do tonight. 
I'm sorry BJ but they axed your quote. Guess I don't have the power that I thought. 
We will be done by midnight... We will be done by midnight... We will be done by midnight... We will be done by midnight.. We will be done by midnight... We will be done by midnight... We will be done by midnight ... We will be done by midnight... We will be done by midnight.. 
I really hate people who leave early and leave the rest of us with all this work to do with an earty deadline ... 
I want to know who thinks I'm sex­ist. I plead guilty to the other two. 
Actually, we're done and It's only 11:26. 
Once again. I'll toot our own horn, Sports rules. And we always will. 
We all have our delusions, don't we. Tim? 
Now, I want some beeh, lobstah and chowdah to celebrate. 
I had no idear the papah was so yoog. 
Will get done 
Will get done 
Will get done 
Aaron, 
The bracelet The bracelet When is the trade? I need that back, you know, bull could always use a couple of extra !shirts. Especially that nice camel one. I kind of like it.... 
And yes, folks. that's the news and we are out of here. We even filled also the space without drinking. 
page 24 The Observer • SPORTS 
.. • SAINT MARY'S SENIORS 
Belles value athletic experiences 
By STEPHANIE BUEK 
Saint Mary's Sports Editor 
In the late 1970's, Little League coaches in cities and towns across the country intro­duced 25 little girls to athletics. Clad in anything from C.Y.O. uniforms that fit too snugly. to sporty sponsors' outfits, to a new pair of sneakers and a big brother's ancient t-shirt, each little girl took the court, the field, the track, or the pool for the first time. 
And memorable careers began. 
Now, over 15 years later, 23 cap-and-gown-clad women will commemorate the close of their collegiate athletic careers Sunday at Saint Mary's College's commencement exer­cises. 
Many seniors agreed that competing at Saint Mary's proved a-special experience. Most appreciated the athletic department's versatility. Though athletes competed against top Division III teams throughout the country, sup­port from the entire athletic department and staff allowed good players to be good stu­dents as well. 
According to Ann Lawrence, a four-year letter winner in the volleyball program, such versa­tility will be integral to success after Saint Mary's. 
"There was definitely a bal­ance of grades and sports," Lawrence said. "The coaches were really flexible, and that flexibility took some pressure off; it made me know that I could study and play. I feel like I'm a more rounded person because of it." 
We're 
At 

We care. From the day you move in, our friendly, profes­sional staff will give you great service. Great location, great service, great price ... Hickory Village has what you need. Come by and see for yourself! 
Efficiencies from $290 1-Bedrooms from $305 2-Bedrooms from $375 
24-hour Emergency Maintenance Sel\lice Attentive Staff • Cable TV Available Free Aerobics Classes Laundry Room in Every Building Acres of Rolling Lawns and Trees Pool, Sundeck &Clubhouse Close to Great Shopping Air Conditioning 

Call or stop by today and IMl'll show you how great liVing at Hick01y Village can be. 
272-1880 

rtf:lCKORlJ 
DlLLA(3Efj 
Mon.-Fri. 8-6; Sat. 10-4 & Sun. 12-4 
Michelle Wenner, a four-year distance runner for the track team. agreed. For Wenner, Division III competition helped her become more goal-orient­ed. 
Though successful in the BOOM, Wenner's goal through­out her college campaign was to break the five-minute mark in the 1500M. Finally in her senior season, she accom­plished her objective, clocking a time of 4:54 in meets at Earlham and Naperville. 
"I started running competi­tively in seventh grade," Wenner said. "Running is something that is a part of my life. It has been neat to com­pete at the collegiate level. It has brought my running to new heights." 
Indeed, for may seniors, the sky is the limit, even after grad­uation. Though their collegiate careers are ending , their life­time involvement in athletics is not. 
Several athletes plan to con­tinue competitive participation in their sports. 
While Wenner hopes to extend her distance running to include road races and lOK's, eventually running a marathon next year, Teresa Popp also has plans for a future in sports after college. 
Holding the record for SMC in the lOOM freestyle at 56:53 for nearly two years, Popp, a nurs­ing major, has competed for the Belles swimming and diving team for four years. After graduation, she will return home to California to begin her nursing career, as well as her activity in the Masters Swimming program. 

A popular West Coast recre­ational organization, the pro­gram sponsors swim meets for people of all ages and abilities. Despite a promising future in swimming, Popp said she will miss the experience of being on a team at Saint Mary's. 
"There was such enthusiasm on the team, and in the whole department," Popp said. "Everyone supported each other. At meets, we would line up on the side of the pool and cheer for our own athletes. A lot of times, we were the only team who did that." 
Nearly all the seniors said that they will miss being part of a team that was like a family. While some will continue play­ing, others look to fulfill the as­pect of teamwork in their lives through coaching. 
Barbara Howells, starting center for Belles basketball, said that her experience at SMC has been a major factor in her goal to eventually coach high school girls basketball. 
Specifically, Howells cited Indiana's basketball legend, Saint Mary's Head Coach Marvin Wood, as an example of the type of motivator she hopes to become. 
In a sort of graduation of his own, Wood retired after 43 years of coaching last February. 
Howells hopes not only to emulate Wood's longevity, but also his coaching style. 
"I've been on a team all my life," Howells said. "I definitely want to coach. Coach Wood is an example for me. I've had such a positive experience here, I want to continue that, and make athletics a positive 
A collection of letters, history and photographs in honor of the centennial of the Grotto of Our Lady ofLourdes at Notre Dame 
AVAILABLE AT THE BOOKSTORE 

experience for the younger kids coming up. It would be great if I could affect people in that way." 
Whether planning for a career or a recreational life in sports, most seniors said that the aspect of teamwork that they learned at SMC will play a part in any lifetime activity. Specifically, they will miss the friendships that they cultivated through being a Belle. 
Rita Juster, left fullback for three years on the soccer team, said that she not only looked to her teammates for support during tough games and prac­tices on the field, but also val­ued her team as friends. 
"We had a great group of girls. We hung together and bonded. It Wl!-S a lot of fun," Juster said. 
Congratulations and Best Wishes to the Seniors of Lewis Hall! 
Good Luck In the Future! 
Lewis Hall 1996Dorm ofthe Year 
lan Gradisar Nick Kanaras McConnell 

hiJay, May 17, 1996 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 25 


CChe Alliance for Catholic Education welcomes with fCreat joy and fCratitude the followinfl Notre Dame fCraduates to their new clllssrooms in the Catholic schools ofthe South: 
Name  School  Grade/Subject/City  
Dominic Amorosa  St. John's  5th Grade -Shreveport, LA  
Norma Aros  Oscar Romero Middle School  6-8 Math -Corpus Christi, TX  
Bridget Barry  Holy Rosary  4th grade -Shreveport, LA  
Kathy Bergen  Redemptorist High School  9-12 Math· Baton Rouge, LA  
Thomas Bradshaw  St. Jude High School  9-12 Math/Science -Mobile, AL (Montgomery}  
Shannon Brennan  Holy Trinity Middle School  7th-8th Math/Science • Charlotte, NC  
Amanda Briggs  Bishop Kenny High School  9-12 Religion-St. Augustine, FL (Jacksonville}  
Travis Brown  Mt. de Sales Academy  9-12 Math/Science-Savannah, GA (Macon}  
Honora Buckley  Bishop Sullivan High Schoo I  9-12 English-Baton Rouge, LA  
Ryan Clark  Our Lady Queen of Mercy  K-8 Art &Music -Mobile, AL (Montgomery)  
Kelly Cox  All Saint's  4th-5th -Charlotte, NC  
Molly Davis  Holy Family  1-8 Religion -Tulsa, OK  
Mark Farrell  Holy Family High School  9-12 Religion/Spanish -Birmingham, AL  
Clara Finneran  Loyola College Prep  9-12 Spanish/Religion-Shreveport, LA  
Joy Fitzgerald  St. Philomena  Kindergarten • Baton Rouge, LA (White Castle}  
Alison Fogarty  Montgomery Catholic High  9-12 Religion/Algebra I· Mobile, AL (Montgomery)  
Erik Goldschmidt  Pensacola Catholic High  9-12 English· Pensacola-Tallahassee, FL  
Theo Helm  Little Flower  6-8 Language Arts -Mobile, AL  
Shannon Hogan  St. Anthony Elementary School  3rd Grade • Corpus Christi, TX  
Michael Johnson  Holy Family  6-8 Math/Science -Mobile, AL  
Kimberly Kippels  St. Joseph  Kindergarten -Birmingham, AL  
Colleen Knight  All Saints Catholic School  6-8 Social Studies/Religion -Fort Worth, TX  
Kevin Langell  Sts. Peter &Paul  6-8 Math/Science-Tulsa, OK  
Christopher Lary  St. Philomena  5-8 English-Baton Rouge, LA (White Castle}  
Todd Leahy  Holy Trinity MS  Computers/Art/Religion-Charlotte, NC  
Kaylee Lentino  St. Paul's Catholic School  Music St.· Augustine, FL (Jacksonville}  
Jonathan McGhee  St. Philip Neri  6-8 Math/Science • Oklahoma City, OK  
Collette McKenna  St. Peter Claver  4th Grade -Savannah, GA (Macon)  
Joy Michnowicz  Holy Family Elementary  K-8 Computer Teacher -Birmingham, AL  
Isabelle Mitura  St. George  1st Grade • Fort Worth, TX  
Rick Munzinger  St. Peter the Apostle Cath.School 2nd Grade -Fort Worth, TX  
Sheila Navagh  Holy Family  1st Grade • Tulsa, OK  
Cort Peters  Immaculate Heart School  5th Grade • Lake Charles, LA  
David Pfeuffer  St. John High School  9-12 Gen. Science/Math -Biloxi, MS  
Gabriel Porchas  All Saints Catholic School  6-8 Math/Science-Fort Worth, TX  
Patricia Rangel  St. Joseph  K-8 Spanish -Birmingham, AL  
Craig Robinette  Holy Family  Elem. English -Tulsa, OK  
Jenny Robinson  Assumption  Charlotte,NC  
Matthew Schindler  Mt. de Sales Academy  HS Alg. &Geom. -Savannah, GA (Macon}  
Peter Slease  Holy Trinity Middle School  6-8 Social Studies -Charlotte, NC  
AI Stashis  Bishop Sullivan High School  9-12 Math/Science -Baton Rouge, LA  
Anne Stricherz  Our Lady of Prompt Succor  4-8 Language Arts • Baton Rouge, LA (White Castle)  
David Sullivan  Corpus Christi Academy  Theology/Social Studies • Corpus Christi, TX  
Carrie Swetonic  Our Lady School  6-8 Religion/French -Lake Charles, LA  
Valerie Villarreal  St. Anthony Elementary  3-4 grades -Corpus Christi, TX  
Kelly Walsh  Immaculate Heart School  6-8 Science/Computers -Lake Charles, LA  
Michael Wigton  St. Matthew's Catholic School  5-8 English • St. Augustine, FL (Jacksonville}  

Timothy Williamson Our Lady Immaculate 5-7 Lang. Arts/Soc. St. -Lake Charles, LA Luke Woods Corpus Christs Academy English -Corpus Christi, TX Dan Zepf St. Joseph High School 9-12 Social Studies • Jackson, MS 
.. 



page 26 
The Observer • SPORTS Friday, May 17, 1996 
• fOOTBAll 
Injuries, transfer take toll as Irish lose valuable depth 
Linebacker John Mclaughlin (above) has decided to transfer to Arizona while an injury has forced Thomas Krug to retire from football. 
By THOMAS SCHLIDT 
Associate Sports Editor 
Just when you think you can relax all hell breaks loose. Or that's how the Notre Dame foot­ball team has to feel. 
After the career-ending injury to backup quarterback Thomas Krug, the repeat knee injury to running back Robert Farmer. and outside linebacker John McLaughlin's transfer, Irish coaches will not have the depth they sought this season. 
Farmer was the first to fall for the Irish. After a strong showing in the·Orange Bowl, coaches believed Farmer was finely the big time back they believed he could be. But when Farmer went down on April 19th, the week before the first Blue-Gold Game, with a knee injury, the backfield began to look thin with only one scholar­ship tailback in Autry Denson and three fullbacks in Marc Edwards, Jamie Spencer and Ken Berry. 
According to head trainer Jim Russ, Farmer re-injured the knee he had surgery on last season, and that it was too early to determine if Farmer would be ready for the Fall. 
"Right now Farmer is in con­servative rehab," Russ said. "It is too premature to know if he will need surgery or not." 
Krug was the next serious injury victim of the Irish. While taking a routine X-ray, doctors discovered an instability in his neck that proved to be career ending. 
"When they first told me I couldn't play, I kept wondering where I could still go and still play," Krug said. "When they 



Look out Charlotte... 
Here ·-COIDeS 
Big Todd! 
Contrratullltions ()", 
Love, Kate 

told me my life was at stake, I suggest that he would use Krug majority of the spring practices, think that put it in perspective." in some student-coach capacity. sophomore McLaughlin decided Irish head coach Lou Holtz The offense wasn't they only to transfer to Arizona where he 
plans to keep Krug on scholar­one to lose a productive mem­felt he would have a greater ship and allow him to travel ber of its squad. After being opportunity to play. with the team. He went on to injured and suspended for 



Starling atjust 
/mo. 

New 1996 Toyota Corolla 
r:------------------,
I SUlVll.VIER SERVICE SPECIAL I 
•Lube, Oil, Filter Change Service II • Brake InspectionI • Trre Rotation I 
(Check Tire Condition, Wear, Alignment, II Adjust Pressure) 
I •Cooling System Service I 
(Replace Anti-Freeze (up to one gallon))I (Pressure Test For Leaks. Inspect Belts And Hoses.) I 
I .Load Test Battery I Check Cables I Clean Terminals I (Make sure has sufficient cranking power)
1•Check Wiper Blades Reg. $1!9.95 I I • 30pt. Vehicle Inspection 1 
I For an appointment call (219) 259-1981 ext. 623, 543, 544 ® TOYOTA I
.._ _________________
1 Expires July 3, 1996 • Not good with any other coupon. One coupon per visit 1 Love What You Do For 1\..Jie 

... 
' 
I 

ORDAN TOYOTA 
Everything We Do Is Just For You 
Just Minutes From UP Mall On Jefferson & Cedar, Mishawaka 
LOCAL: 259-1981 • AREA: 674-9926 
hiJay, May 17, 1996 page 27
The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT 








Arthur Andersen Welcomes the Following Graduates of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College to Our Firm 
Thomas Ahern 
New York 
Nicole F. Allen 
Chicago 
AmyL. Amoni 
Washington, DC 
David D. Bangert 
Chicago 

Jennifer L. Bonvechio 
San Francisco 
Jeffrey M. Bradfield 
Chicago 
Robert M. Brett 
Cleveland 
Patrick M. Casey 
Chicago 

Carrie L. Christianson 
Chicago 
David A. Clairmont 
Boston 
Michael S. Clark 
Chicago 
Anna P. Dematatis 
Chicago 
Keith E. Deussing 
Philadelphia 
Matthew D. Entrekin 
Chicago 
Kathryn L. Fox 
Pittsburgh 
Michelle A. Frasier 
Chicago 
Kevin J. Goodwin 
Atlanta 

Shannon J. Griesemer 
Chicago 
Matthew S. Gunter 
Chicago 
Wendy L. Hawrylak 
Chicago 

Elizabeth M. Heimann 
Boston 
Benjamin W. Herrig 
Chicago 
Christopher G. Irwin 
Boston 
Matthew C. Jennings 
Chicago 
Michael I. Kloska 
Chicago 
Kevin C. Krayer 
Miami 
Marc Liebman 
Phoenix-Tucson 
Eric R. Lorge 
Chicago 
Kathleen P. Lynch 
Detroit 
Julie R. MacKinnon 
Boston 

Elena C. Maguire 
New York 

Peter Maloney 
San Jose 

Jay S. Matushak 
Minneapolis 

Natasha A. Mazzei 
Rochester 

Marcus A. McDonald 
Chicago 

Jennifer E. Mehl 
Chicago 
Amy K. Mertz 
Chicago 

John J. O'Connell Ill 
New York 

Kathleen A. O'Connell 
Baltimore 

James M. O'Connor IV 
Chicago 

Michael P. O'Neil 
Milwaukee 

Jonathan E. O'Reilly 
Boston 

Ryan C. Plutnicki 
Philadelphia 

Kristen A. Polcari 
New York 
Kari D. Pulley 
Chicago 

Joseph D. Riley 
Chicago 

Vanessa R. Rollings 
Chicago 

Noemi A. Romero 
San Juan 
Jill M. Satanek 
Chicago 

David M. Skinner 
New York 
Mark L. Staub 
Chicago 

Brian R. Sullivan 
New York 

Joseph F. Taylor 
Chicago 

Margaret M. Vida 
Chicago 
Oanh N. Vo 
Chicago 
Julie C. Vogel 
Chicago 

Dean S. Wikenheiser 
Minneapolis 

Michael J. Willis 
Chicago 

Jeffrey A. Wojcik 
Chicago 

Ann Marie Zielonka 
Chicago 

Brian Q. Ziolkowski 
Chicago 




page 28 
The Observer • SPORTS 
• MEN'S BASKETBAlL 
Coach MacLeod back for more 

By THOMAS SCHLIDT 
Associate Sports Editor 
It has been a turbulent five years for Notre Dame basket­ball coach John MacLeod, and even as his contract expires this June it appears that he will continue on. 
Towards the end of last sea­son, Irish Athletic Director Mike Wadsworth expressed confi­dence in MacLeod and, accord­ing to Assistant Sports Informa­tion director Mike Enright, MacLeod will continue on indef­initely as head coach with a deal similar to football coach Lou Holtz's "hand shake" deal. 
"I assume we're rolling right along here," MacLeod said. "(Executive Vice President) Father Bill (Beauchamp) and I had talked at the banquet that when the season was over we'd sit down and discuss the direc­tion of the program, but from that point on we haven't had any discussions." 
Even with the new pseudo contract, NBA rumors continue to be active as many pro coach­ing jobs are vacant. MacLeod, however, dismisses these as just rumors. 
''I'm not campaigning for a NBA job," he explained. "There have been rumors every year, but it has been five years and I'm still here." 
One reason that MacLeod would stay is that he has yet to finish the job he started five 

Gretchen Johnson-­
Congratulations 

Your academic and creative success has gone beyond my wildest expectations! 
Beaming with Pride!! 
Love, Mom 

••.t6 tk taa 

You deserve a wonderful year in Germany..Good Luck! 

Congratulations Nicole Bohn! 
We are all VERY proud of you and your accomplishments. 
Love, Mom, Dad, Kip, Anne, Lauren, Todd, Grandmother, Peggy, Buck & family, Roy & Chris and all who love you. 
The Class of'96 has reached majority! 
Happy 21st, Nicole! 
Love from: Mom, T, KK, Kip, Anne, Lauren, Marybeth, Michelle, Danielle, and all your friends at ND! 
years ago. 
"We're not where we want to be," MacLeod stated. ''I'm not satisfied with how sJow it's been, but this isn't pro ball. You just don't knock out ten guys and bring in guys off the waiver wire or make a ,trade. So it has been a slow and te­dious process, and there are no short cuts." 
Yet even with the recent los­ing records, MacLeod can count one great success for his pro­gram. He led the charge as the Irish joined the Big East in 1995. 
"We were going nowhere," MacLeod explained. "We've taken ourselves from a situa­tion that was going nowhere as an independent and we've put ourselves in a position to go in the right direction. We're hav­ing success in the sense that we're doing what is necessary for this program to grow in national stature. 
"Are we close? No, we're not close, but we took the first ma­jor step." 
It was the Big East's effect on recruiting that mandated the move. For years recruits had used Notre Dame's independent status as an excuse to play else­where. Such recent players include Raef LaFrenz now at Kansas and Jared Prickett of Kentucky. Both had Notre Dame in the front, but the de­sire to play in a conference was too great, and MacLeod lost the impact players he desperately needed. 

"We were working like heck in recruiting, but we were be­ing beaten at every turn be­cause we were an indepen­dent," he said. "You're not go­ing to be able to recruit real top players as an independent. Now that we're in the Big East we have identification with the Big East and recognition in the canference." 
Yet, even with the new alle­giance to the Big East, talented players haven't been breaking down the door to play for the Irish. Even MacLeod admits that his recruiting class for next season doesn't provide the im­pact players the Irish need. 
"They are not marquee play­ers and they're not impact play­ers," he commented. "But they are good players. That's just who we could recruit." 
It's not that they haven't been close to landing that impact player, they have. 
"We've been involved in re­cruiting right down to the wire on really good players, but have been beaten right at end," MacLeod said. "The only way is to continue to go after top ath­letes and eventually somewhere catch a break because we haven't had a break yet. We need one of these marquee, impact players to decide to come to Notre Dame." 
For MacLeod that is the next part of the plan. First was join-
Friday, May 17, 1996 
The Observer/Rob Finch 
After joining the Big East, coach John Macleod believes landing a top player is the next step for the Irish. 
ing the Big East, now they have no quick fix, just no easy route to reap the benefits of that and recruiting is a major part move. of it. We have to land that im­
"Now we're ready to take the pact player, and that's the next next step," he said. "There is step." 
CONGRATULATIONS 
Mary Jo Ogren 
Your Family and Friends are Very Proud of You! 
(Get Ready New York!!!) 
Bed 'N Breakfast Registry
* SoUTH BEND'S PREMIER REGISTRY SI~CE 1983 * 
••• A Registry of Private Homes for Parents and Friends of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College on Special Events Weekends ••• 
Try the OPTION 
Enjoy a "Home Away from Home• 
Attractive Approved Homes South Bend Metropolitan Area High Standards Prevail Committed Hosts Gracious Hospitality 

GRADUATION. FOOTBALL. JPW. FRESHMAN ORIENTATION. REUNIONS 
Wilma L. Behnke (219) 291-7153 

o-e~~~ 
South Bend, Indiana 46635 (219)272-6702 
Chinese, Vietnamese, & American Food Lunch 11 :OOa.m.-3:00p.m. Dinner menu will be served after 3:00p.m. 
15 Years of Service Award The Chamber Of Commerce St. Joseph County 
"Enjoy a unique experience in Oriental Dining" 
• 
Fresh Ingredients 

•Lunch 
Specials starting at $3.50 


includes: egg roll, soup and tea 
•Dinners 
starting at $5 

• 
Private Dining Booths 

•Custom 
cooking with no MSG 

• 
Vegetarian Menu ~ 


•15 Years of Service Award 
,u,_"T.:"::=:+I 
For Reservations & Carry Out Call: 
272-6702 

For Dine-In Delivery Call: 
-llusiiAIHPII272-2328 Fftdorll/oii.IOPII Soadlr .....10"11 
Friday, May 17, 1996 The Observer • SPORTS page 29 
• WOMEN'S TENNIS 

The Observer/ Angela Addington Senior Holyn Lord and the Irish automatically qualified for the NCAA tournament based on their 22-6 record and Top Ten finish in the polls. 

r 
CELEBRATED EVENTS 
Comprehensive Wedding Coordinating and Party Planning 
SPECIALIZING IN LONG-DISTANCE WEDDING PLANNING 
CYNTHIA BASKER 

302 East Donaldson Avenue Mishawaka, Indiana 46545 
219 258-5482 Call or wrice for free informacional packer 

wishes to announce the following awards to these graduating seniors for their outstand­ing scholarship, leadership, and professional awareness 
The L.H. Baldinger Awards to: 
Todd L. Johnston Valerie C. Nanagas 
and 

The Patrick J. Niland, MD Award to: 
Todd D. Reinhart 

Congratulations 
and Best Wishes to the Class of 
1996!!! 
Black Alumni of Notre Dame (BA ofND) ND Alumni Association -Minority Alumni Network 
By BETSY BAKER 
Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame women's tennis team will return to the NCAA championships this week­epd for the third time in the past four years. The Irish, ranked No. 10 in the country, received an automatic bid to the championships by remaining in the top ten since the beginning of March. 
After losing to top-ranked Florida at the National Indoor Tournament the last weekend of February, the Irish bounced back to defeat then, twelfth-ranked South Carolina and sixth­ranked California, allowing them to crack the top ten at No. 8. Midway through March, the Irish moved up to sixth, the highest ranking in the program's history. 
"This year has been an exciting year for us," head coach Jay Louderback said. "One of our big goals was to be one of the top ten teams in the country and we have done that, but we are especially excited because we have a chance to do well at the championships." 
The 22-6 Irish join fifteen other teams at the championships in Talahassee, Florida-the ten automatic qualifiers and six winners of regional tournaments throughout the country. They have faced four of the nine other automatic qualifiers in which they won one match against fifth-ranked Texas, but dropped three to Florida, Duke, and Wake Forest, all top-five teams. 
In their first match, the Irish will face ninth­ranked Brigham Young who pose quite a chal­lenge after defeating Duke earlier in the season. 
"In the past, we have been happy coming here and winning the first round," Louderback com­mented. "But now we feel that in each match we hope to play, we'll have a chance to win." 
"BYU is going to be a tough match for us, and if we win that, we'll probably face Stanford who is ranked and seeded second, with their only loss being to No. 1 Florida." 
The No. 7 seeded Irish ended their regular season by sweeping the Big East championships and then knocking off Western Michigan in their final home match, 8-1. They will head into the championships this weekend with a full and healthy roster, a key factor in their performance as they have been plagued by injuries through­out the season. Senior Wendy Crabtree, who has led the Irish at No. 1 singles for most of her career including the '94 and '95 seasons in which she received All-American honors, was sidelined with a foot injury for much of the sea­son leaving freshman Jennifer Hall to pick up the slack. And that is exactly what llall has done. 
The freshman's 11-4 singles record is high­lighted by her defeat of the No. 3 player in the country, Duke's Vanessa Webb, and has made her the eighth-ranked singles player in the country by the Intercollegiate Tennis Association. Hall is the lone Irish player that will compete individually in the championships. 
In addition to Hall, Crabtree and fellow senior Holyn Lord, who also plays No. 2 singles, will compete in the doubles competition. However, the main focus of this weekend will be the team's performance as a whole, especially since it will be the last collegiate match for Crabtree, Lord, and Sherri Vitale. Vitale has missed nearly all of the season due to a wrist injury, but will return to play No. 3 doubles at the championships. 
"They [Crabtree, Lord, and Vitale) are coming into this weekend excited to play," Louderback said of the three seniors. "Those three have basically gotten us where we are. They have gotten us on the map and into the top ten." 
"They have made our program what it is." 
The leadership of the seniors combined with the talent of freshmen Hall and Marisa Velasco, who has compiled a 21-2 record at No. 4 singles and a 14-8 record with both sophomore Kelly Olson and Vitale at No. 3 doubles, will give the Irish their best chance at advancing farther than any previous team at the championships. 

The Observer/Michelle Sweet Senior Wendy Crabtree will look to close her stel­lar four-year career in style in Talahassee. 
AUen1jon Senjors of 'II 
License Plate Holder........................... $1 0 Cookbook......................................................$1 0 T-shirt................................................................$1 0 IRISH Game Hat .................................... $12 
On Sale a~ ~he LaFol1une lnfodesk 
The Top Ten sports stories of 1992-1996 
page 30 The Observer • SPORTS Friday, May 17, 1996 

The Game of the Century November 15, 1993 One of the most anticipated showdowns in recent history lived up to all the expectations, as second­ranked Notre Dame upset favorite and top-ranked Floridq State 31-24. Shawn Wooden broke up Charlie Ward's last second attempt to secure the monumental win for the Irish.  
Champions! December4, 1995 The ever-improving Notre Dame women's soccer team reached the ultimate goal of a national championship by defeating Portland 1-0 on a Cindy Daws penalty kick. The Irish also ended North Carolina's dynasty in the semi-finals with a 1-0 shocker.  A Big Deal August 30, 1994 Athletic Director Dick Rosenthal announced during the summer of 1994 that Notre Dame would join the Big East Conference for most sports. The move was seen as especially helpful to John MacLeod and the struggling men's basketball program.  1HE  
..  AD Change August 30, 1994 Athletic Director Dick Rosenthal announced that he would step down, effec­tive as of August 1, 1995. Mike Wadsworth (below) will be his successor.  Dreams Dashed November 22, 1993 Boston College sacked Notre Dame's hopes of a national championship ended when David Gordon kicked the longest field goal of this career (41 yards) to erase a thrilling Irish comeback and give Boston College a 41-39 victory in the final game of the 1993 season. October 3, 1994 Chris Petrucelli's women's soccer team tied North Carolina 0-0 in overtime to snap UNC's 92-game winning streak. It was the third time that a historic streak was snapped by an Irish team. National Champions March 23, 1994 The Notre Dame fencing team came from behind in the final day of competi­tion to defeat Penn State and secure the first Notre Dame national championship in any sport since 1988.  Prodigy Powlus lost for season August 31, 1993 A shoulder separation cost freshman phenom Ron Pow!us a probable starting spot before he ever took a live collegiate snap.  Last Minute Heroics November 16, 1992 A last-minute Rick Mirer (3) pass to Jerome Bettis (receieving) cut Penn State's lead to one. Reggie Brooks' subsequent two-point conversion catch lifted Notre Dame over Penn State, 17-16. It marked the final game of the series. Women's sports attain varsity status May 1, 1996 Athletic Director Mike Wadsworth announced that women's lacrosse and crew teams would be ele­vated to varsity status equaling the total of men's and women's sports at 13.  

friday, May 17, 1996 The Observer· PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 31 


Best Wishes to Graduating Student-Athletes and Tutors From the Office of Academic Services for Student-Athletes Baseball Lacrosse Trainers Craig Allen Brian Erickson Tom Donnelly Roh Lisanti Brian Gilfillan Mary Therese Kraft George Restovich Greg Glenday Mike O'Malley Rowan Richards Kevin Mahoney Wayne Perras Mike Maroney Suzanne Power Men's Basketball Andrew Sullivan Ryan lloover James Tremante Men's Track Keith Kurowski Andrew Burns Managers Joseph Dunlop Women's Basketball Mike Albertini Erik Fasano Carey Poor Ken Chardos Mike Fleisch Mike Chiaravalloti Jeff Hojnacki Cheerleading Bill Christman Todd Johnson Tl1dd Domjan Leonard Del Vecchio Brian McQuade Chadley 1-Iubncr Ken Devlin Aaron Schielke Alexandra Mensch J .R. Finkel meier Charles Seipel Kenneth Oliphant Jeff Frericks Amy Pika! Erin Gallagher Women's Track Sondra Rekuc John Giovacco Kristen Dudas Jamie Sotis Tim Logan Erica Peterson Daniel Sweet Jenn Michalec Amy Siegel Stephanie Walker Greg Murphy Joy Ulickey Ric Westenherg Daniel Murray Mary O'Connor VolleyballMen's Fencing Zoraida Radona Brett Hensel Greg Bannon Andrew. Salvucci Shannon Tuttle Paul Capobianco Melanie Sissel William Wertz Student Office Worker Women's Fencing Stephanie Stigler Cladette deRruin Softball Mindi Kalogera Kara Brandenburger Tutors Maria Panyi Jenna Knudson Allie Arrien Ashley Shannon Terri Kobata Mike Briggs Amy Sromek Andrea Kollar Tonya Callahan Amy Carroll Football Men's Soccer Mike Clancy Jeremy Akers Josh Landman Steve Connolly Joe Rabey (Dec.) Patrick Polking Jon Copeland Kevin Carretta Jed Davidson Pete Chryplewicz Women's Soccer Claudette deBruin Paul Grasmanis (Dec.) Regan Coyne Tricia Fanone Greg Lane Rosella Guerrero Fernanda Ferreira Ryan Leahy (Dec.) Michelle McCarthy Ben Gaffney Will Lyell Ashley Scharff Ryan Goode Brian Magee Julie Vogel Shannon Griesmer Derrick Mayes Megan Groves Dan McConnell Men·'s Swimming Corrine Iverson Mark Monahan David Doherty Kevin Janicki Scott Palumbo Bob Fellrath CJ Jauregui David Quist Bob Flynn Joe Karian, MBA Sean Rogers George Lathrop David Lykins Cliff Stroud Ryan Schroeder Karen MacKencie Marcus Thorne Tim Sznewajs Julie MacKinnon Bill Wagasy Dhiraj Mehra Shawn Wooden (Dec.) Women's Swimming Steve Miller Renaldo Wynn Anna Cooper Pedro Nemalceff Dusty Zeigler (Dec.) Liane Gallagher Bridget Nilles Joy Michnowicz Mary O'Conner Men's Golf Jesslyn Peterson Megan O'Neill Christopher Burton Alisa Springman Tony Pillari Cole Hanson Rachel Thurston Mike Pugh William Moore Bruce Robertson Men's Tennis George Ross, PHD Women's Golf Andrew Chmura Catherine Rottenberg julie Melby Brian Harris Doug Sidney Marco Magnano J Szczepaniak-Gillece Hockey Jason Pun Tad True Chris Bales Mike Sprouse D VanSteenbergen, MBA Brett Bruininks Stephanie Walker Jeremy Coe Women's Tennis Ric Westenberg Ihvide Dal Grande Wendy Crabtree Dean Wikenheisen Garrytt Gruber Holyn Lord Christine Willard Jamie Ling Meredith Siegfried Andrea Zurro Jay Matushak Sherri Vitale Jamie Morshead Wade Salzman  



GRADUATING SENIORS OF lAHM1 
RE we are at another Notre Dame 

graduation. Many have gone 
before you, often they have been your friends, some may have been your par­ents or relatives, and some you may never have known at all save for the bonding spirit that we call Notre Dame. However, this gradu­ation is set apart from the others. It is set apart because this time you will be graduating. This is especially true for those of us who stay behind at Zahm after you go. Each one of you has made your imprint on this university. Whether it be through classes, through extra­curricular activities or through relationships­each of you has left your name indelibly writ­ten upon the history of Notre Dame. However, what we here at Zahm know is that you have also left your name, your words, your smiles and your hearts within Zahm Hall, and upon all of us who live there. 

E could talk about the parties, the SYR's, the tailgaters, the girls or even the tests. However, on this occasion it seems appropriate to speak of something else, something that includes much of the above and adds to them a laugh, a tear, a hug and a love that few in this world ever have the opportunity to experience. It is the Zahm family, a spirit that permeates the halls of our dorm and is tangible only to the 
hearts of its residents. Each of you is, and for­ever will be a part of that family. It is manifest in late night conversations, Decade Dances, ODIN, dorm masses, massive Christmas dis­plays, Legion of Doom, shouting contests with every male dorm on campus, countless other things left unmentioned for propriety's sake or lack of space, and also in the memories of all of us with whom you have shared this life and this spirit. 

ow you go into the "real world", 
where people say things are not like 
Notre Dame. They surely are not like Zahm. However, you are and forever will be a Domer and a Zahmbie and we who know and love you are confident that this world will come a little closer to the love we know just because you are in it. 
will never forget you and you leave the blessed con­
fines of Zahm Hall you never really leave Zahm or the hearts of your fellow Zahmbies. May the Lord bless and keep you 
always. With Love 
1 
The Men ofZahm 
P.S. Always remember: 
WE ARE ... ZAHM HALL! 
~ --~ 
page 32 
Soccer 
continued from page 40 
and 12 assists. More importantly, however, are the offensive opportu­nities McCarthy created through her lightning quick dribbling abilities. 
"Michelle is the best soccer player we've had here," head coach Chris Petrucelli said. "She is amazingly gifted with the ball. She broke down defenses by herself and would either score or create chances for others." 
Everyone got a good look at these abilities during the Final Four in North Carolina. McCarthy set up Cindy Daws' winning goal in the championship game as she broke to the net with ball and was tripped up. 
In the national semifinal, McCarthy put on a dribbling exhibi­tion as the Irish ran time off the clock in the second half. Tar Heel players appeared to be chasing a ghost as the forward would not give up the ball. 
The Observer • SPORTS 
"It was just an incredible way to finish the year," she said. "Just the things we accomplished as a team are what counts." 
McCarthy also accomplished plen­ty this season after a back injury sidelined her for part of last spring and the summer. Even though she experienced pain throughout the year, McCarthy believed this would be the year and battled through the pain to be part of the championship season. 
Injury was also no stranger to Scharff who battled back from an early season ankle sprain to become the backbone of a relentless Irish defense. By blanking all four NCAA opponents, it was the defense that set the tone for each game. · 
The experience that Scharff, a four-year starter, brought to the defense was invaluable. 
"Ashley was a steadying influ­ence," Petrucelli added. "I've never seen somebody improve from the middle of the season after an injury to the last six weeks like she did." 
After spraining her other ankle 
the previous year, Scharff found rebounding from this year's injury less problematic. 
"It was a lot easier this year," Scharff stated. "Because of the other ankle injury, I knew what I had to do to get back." 
Scharff's presence was dearly missed in the middle of the season. Without her, the Irish tied Cincinnati and squeaked past Ohio State in overtime. Upon her return, the defense started to gel into the unit that would string together four NCAA shutouts. 
While few recognize the fact, Scharff was also the player who made the kick into North Carolina's end for the own-goal that proved to be the difference in the national semifinal. 
Of course, Scharff's defense against the explosive Tar Heel offense made the real difference. but getting on the other side of that field makes a nice memory. 
Especially when it means joining McCarthy there to celebrate a cham­pionship. 
Cha01ps 
continued from page 40 
have the word engraved on the championship jewelry. 
"One of the things we needed was something to rally around," Petrucelli said. "It would get everybody thinking the same way. It would help to concentrate on the game and not anything outside." 
After Notre Dame fell to North Carolina 2-0 in Houston during the middle of the season and squeaked past a sub-par Villanova squad, the Irish sat down and re-evaluated their goal. 
Following this meeting, the Irish would not lose their focus again. 
Nor would they lose another game. 
Mid-season adversity pro­vided the major turning point in Notre Dame's title run. While not pleasant, it will be viewed as an enduring memory by the team. 
Naturally, that will not be the only memory. 
The celebration following the 1-0 triple-overtime win against Portland has been immortal­ized by numerous photogra­phers. 
At the spot where Cindy Daws used a free kick to end the game, a sea of green jerseys piled on top of the co-captain in a moment of pure exhilaration. 
At that moment, some might have been left wondering what the Irish were so excited about. 
"I didn't even see it go in," Daws remembered. 
"I didn't see the goal," Petrucelli said. 
Prime Network, the company televising the game, also switched to the goal just as the ball rolled in. Once the pan­demonium ended, those ob­servers recognized that it was simply a great goal by a great player. 
While the one co-captain was buried at the bottom of the pile, the other stood at the top of it. Amidst the madness, goalie Jen Renola appeared to provide the tqugh, steadying influence that she had all season. 
For it was Renola who made a dramatic speech during Notre Dame's mid-season tailspin. It was also Renola who did not al­low a goal during the four Irish shutouts in the NCAA's. Even if a team solved the tenacious Irish defense, they still faced 
the daunting task of solving Renola. 
Nowhere was this more visi­ble than during the 1-0 win over reigning champions North Carolina in the national semifi­nal. 
Renola and the Irish defense withstood a myriad of quality chances by the Tar Heels to preserve the shutout. 
The Irish goalie would also be leveled twice by charging Tar Heels, but continued to stand in the goal like an impenetrable wall. 
These images from the Final Four merely serve as a micro­cosm for the entire a season. A championship year lends itself to providing indelible memories that leave a mark on Notre Dame athletics. 
From the string of shutouts to begin the year to the rivalry that developed between Notre Dame and Connecticut, the memories linger. 
From winning the Big East crown to singing in the locker room before the national semi­final, the images remain. 
Of course, a championship season will not be forgotten any time soon. 
It will be focused on by coaches, players. and fans as the 1995 Notre Dame women's soccer team goes their own way. 
Indeed, focus might be viewed as a key word. After the North Carolina win, each player said they were there to capture the title, not beat North Carolina. 
It was this determined focus that now allows each player to focus on their ring finger for the rest of their lives. 




The Observer/Brandon Canctura 

Derrick Mayes' leaping touchdown grab against Texas this past sea­son was just one of many highlight-reel catches for the All-American. 
Like sands through the hourglass... 

Katie Adams jenny Allen Alane Alvarez Katherine Begert Kristen Carey Anne Castonguay Ragen Coyne Claudette De Bruin Missy Deckard jen Dougherty Michelle Duyongco Cybelle Egan joie Fisher Christy Fleming Erica Gambale Kristin Geeza Kristen Helenbrook Mari Hirano Natalie Hocking Heather Hughes Corrine Iverson Sarah Kahler Christy Kenny Shloe King jennafer Klaes Lanny Le Cristiane Likely 
good luck, weasels!! 
Tere Lopez jennifer Mackowiak Bridget Magenis Emily Matson Michelle Meadows Mari Casi Morris Anne.Niebler Andi Odicino Anna Marie Pease Erica Peterson Francesco Pons Nicole Principe jessica Robb Miranda Sanford Carrie Schehr jen Schell Ashley Shannon Aliso Springman Nicole Stallbaumer jessica 5zczepaniak-Gillece Analise Taylor Rachel Thurston Trang Truong Sarah Tulchinsky Dawn Vigo Katie Warzon Amy Weihrer 
The Observer· SPORTS 
Mayes 
continued from page 40 
uncanny ability to adjust to the ball in mid-air. He turned many a bad throw into touch­downs during his days with the Irish. 
All in all, Mayes hauled in 129 passes for 2512 yards. 22 of those were touchdowns. 
Not only did those 22 catches give the Irish six points, they gave Mayes the opportunity to display a little emotion. 
"On the field, I do like to talk and celebrate a little," the flam­boyant Mayes noted. 
"Football has always been my release," he explained. "It real­ly is my comfort zone because I can go out there and do what­ever. I can be Derrick Mayes." 
But Derrick Mayes on the field and in the end zone is a different Derrick Mayes than the one ofT the field. 
"Off the field, I'm actually pretty introverted," Mayes admitted. "And to be honest, you really have to be careful of what you say and how you carry yourself. I've had to bite my tongue plenty but I've put my foot in my mouth enough too." 
This kind of media scrutiny 
that Mayes has already enjoyed 
while playing for the Irish is 
sure to help him deal with the 
more intense NFL media. 
Mayes, though, is worried more 
about his on-the-field efforts. 
"I have really high expecta­
tion going into next year," 
Mayes declared. "I think Green 
.. ...-...._ 

ERASMUS BO .KS I 
• Used books bougi1t and sold 
• 25 categories of Books 
• 25,0XJ Hardback and Paperback books in. stock 
• Out-of-Print Search Service: 
$2"' ' 
page 33 

Bay is the best situation for 
me." 
With one of the NFL's top quarterbacks in Brett Favre (assuming he can overcome his recent battle with an addiction to pain-killers) leading a dan­gerous and relatively wide­open offense, Mayes is bound to get plenty of opportunities, something that didn't really happen at Notre Dame. 
But Mayes wasn't expecting anything more. 
"I could have gone to Tennessee or USC and caught 90 or 100 balls but I didn't and I'm very happy with the deci­sion," said Mayes. "I wouldn't trade my experiences here for the world." 
One thing, though, he would have liked to change is the University's rule that no schol­arship athlete can live ofT-cam­pus. 
"Having to live on campus as an athlete at Notre Dame is · certainly a negative. People are constantly coming to you asking for favors. I don't mind that at all but it does get tire­some." 
One thing Mayes did not grow 
weary of was extra work on his 
skills. While there were cer­
tainly occassions when Mayes 
did not exactly put forth a 
100% effort in post-practice 
sprints, he was always working 
after practice with the JUGS 
machine with the other 
receivers on his ball skills. 
"He caught 300 passes after 
practice the Monday after 
Washington (a sub-par perfor­
mance for mayes despite a TO 
and game-winning two-point 
conversion)", freshman split 
end Bobby Brown recounted. 
"It was amazing to see that 
kind of determination. lie 
showed the true Derrick Mayes 
that day." 
The true Derrick Mayes 

wasn't always a truly confident Derrick Mayes. • 
"I most remember my first home game against Michigan," Mayes recounted. "Coming out the tunnle was amazing but it was a little over-whelming. But at the same time, once you got used to it, the adrenaline rush did help." 
In fact, Mayes' first three receptions all went for touch­downs. But while it was obvi­ous he was special from the start, it wasn't until the 1993 Boston College disaster that Mayes became the "go-to-guy" for the Irish. 
And he stayed that way for over two years. Despite the ever-growing focus and double­teams upon No. 1, Mayes always seemed to make the big plays. 
However, due to the fact that his speed has always been questioned, NFL scouts labeled him more of a "possession receiver". 
But to Mayes, that's a compli­ment. 
"The only thing that's differ­
ent from me and the other guys 
(that were drafted in front of 
him) is that I'm going to catch 
the ball." 
And he caught it for the Irish 
via a number of different 
routes. 
Though the play often seemed 
under-used under Holtz, Mayes 
good size and strength made 
him an ideal to go over the mid­
dle but great hand-eye coordi­
nation, superb leaping ability 
and surprising speed when the 
ball in is the air made Mayes a 
lethal deep threat. 
Sometime, like in the 1996 
Orange Bowl. his talents 
weren't quite enough but 
Mayes never complained. 
"I already miss this place." 
Notre Dame already misses 
him. 
-

• YEAR IN REVIEW
.. 

The Observer/Brent Tadsen The Observer/Cynthia Exconde 
Bill Lester and the Notre Dame fencing team enjoyed another highly successful season. Saint Mary's basketball coach Marvin Wood retired after a distinguished 43-year career. 
Men's

Men's 
Cham pi 

Congratulations 
Notre Dame 
Golf 

Graduates
Georgetown 

Cross CountryConnecticut Soccer

Villanova 
Indoor Track

Rutgers 
Swimming

St. John's Basketball 
Carrie Swetonic
Syracuse Tennis
Boston College Outdoor Track 
Tom Miller 
Providence Baseball
Pittsburgh Seton Hall 
Joe Leslie 
Women' 
Cham pi 

Darcy Yaley 
Cross Country Field Hockey Soccer 

Thanks for all you've done for the 
Volleyball Villanova 
Indoor Track 

mail distribution center over the years. 
Notre Dame 75.0 
SwimmingConnecticut 73 
Best ofluck to you all from all ofus at the
Basketball Connecticut 

Syracuse 61.5 
Tennis Notre Dame 

mail center and support services. 
Miami 54 Outdoor Track GeorgetownGeorgetown 54.0 
Softball Notre Dame

Providence 53.0 Seton Hall 51.5 Boston College 49.5 
"We are not permitted to choose the frame of our destiny. Pittsburgh 49.0 
But what we put in it is ours;' 
Rutgers 

Dag Hammarskjold 
West Virginia StJohn's 
Mary Adams Jennifer Layden Kelly Real Julie Byrd Anne Lochner Suzanne Riemann
Recycle 
Kathryn Cavanaugh Elizabeth Mandile Araceli Rivas Rejane Cytacki Maureen McGough Janet Roth
The 
Cynthia Egan Laura Merritt Mary Rottenbom Marcy Forgey Joy Michnowicz Brie Schaefer
Observer 
Kathryn Fox Kathleen Mitchell Courtney-Brook Smith 
Noreen Hefferon Cecylia Mizera NancySokal
MEMORY/SIMMS 72 PIN 
4 meg $49 
Courtney Heniff Stasia Mosesso Jeanine Very
8 meg $89 16 meg $199 
Mary Hyder Kathleen O'Connell Oanh Vo 
32 meg $399 4x CD Rom $59 
KeiraKamm Patricia Rangel Amber Wiebe
6x CD Rom $89 1.2GB HD $219 1.6GB HD $269 2.0GB HD $319 2.5GB HD $389 
Blessings on each of you as you live out your destiny. 
Quantitieslimited,pricessubjectto 
The IAiomen of Lyons Hall 
change. Prices change daily, call for latest 
-VV I quotes. 256-1138 ask for John or Rob. l.:iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii 

The Observer • SPORTS page 35 

• 
'~ .. 
'• 

• 
The Observer/Rob Finch 

(Clockwise from top left) Senior captain Ryan Hoover navigates through Big East competition; Senior center --· Jamie Ling became Notre Dame's all-time leader in points; Senior Stacy Fields and the Irish won their first .. ever NCAA tournament game; Athletic Director Mike Wadsworth announced that women's lacrosse will be a varsity sport as of next year. 
----------~~~~~ 
Congratulgtions
to . 
.~r· 

John Lucas Garrett Gray·:: '·Pete Goyer Dave Tyler Dave Kellett · w·Mary Kate Morton Mike Norbut Bryan Meyer Andy Cabiness Krista Nannery Alex Gadala-Maria Matt Ford 
/".•
... , .. 

Joe Riley Lisa Strasser··~~~··· Joe Dusseau 
);N' ~ ): 

John Potter Ryan Malayter Chris Gallo fen Mackowiak Chris+£ereday · ·.,·" ·. Matt Nielsen 
·.. · ...;#"" .
Eric Lorge Amy Zwerk . ·.· .... : Brent'··Tadsen . 
.,¢''~~ '· ...,..}.... . •,\ 
Tim Seymour Gretchen John.~qn -\~'\:.~Kevin Klgu Megan McGrath Pete Coleman·\ ; ;,o\ ·' . Sarah Cashore 
n~ . j·l> · /' 
..,t,

Kristi Kolski Claudia Tu~isco !(:~~"p~~:··:.f\my Crawford 
. ,.· \';\ ,. \" 
Mike O'Hara ...:.:.:·~:~~\ N{~tt Murrar,.....'; ·\.,..::~~~'.::~~~ ..,,"cCynthia Exconde Melanie Laflin :;'~t<I~;·.,_.,\\Lisa Siefert·'~:~<:~\:.::\':.·(~~:..:\~~:·:~ ... ·····:~Chris Mullins 
.·. ··:,•:.. ·. \}\'»\ ~··\,·· ~';\·:· ·.:>·· \\·~'":..• ·\·"' .•.• ~ 
Beth Regan .:~~:~~;;~Hartzell ~ ,~·:::~,\~~'·'"".~·:· · " .. ,-~--~~-.:·~·· ·· Thanks for all the time and effort that helped to make The Observer happen every day. 
• 
page 36 
The Observer • SPORTS Friday, May 17, 1996 
By BETSY BAKER 
Sporrs Writer 
With All-American pitcher Terri Kobata back in the line-up, the top reliever in the country in Kelly Nichols, and a whole arsenal of eager and aggressive hitters to back them up offensively, the Notre Dame softball team is prepared for their third straight trip to the NCAA championships. 
Although a 1-0 loss to Connecticut in the Big East champi­onships cost the Irish both the title and the automatic bid the at-large bid is good enough to get them into the tournament and the team will take it from there. 
"We are real happy we got a bid, especially since we didn't get it automatically," junior Meghan Murray said. "We think we have as good a shot at it as anybody else. We just hope to go in and prove that Notre Dame is a good softball team." 
Murray leads the Irish in batting with a .411 average and looks to be the first player in the history of the program to end the season over .400. She was also named Big East Player of the Year, in addition to being first team All-Big East, as she led the conference in batting aver­age (.507), on base percentage (.529), and hits per game (1. 70). 
Joining Murray on the first team are sophomore Jenn Giampaolo, who is second in batting with .393, junior Kara McMahon, and senior Kobata. The return of Kobata from an arm injury that had her side­lined for nearly all of April will be 
the key to Irish success at the championships. Kobata, the team leader with a 
0.81 ERA and 14-1 record, is also the Irish career leader in wins with 79, winning percentage (.840), ERA (0.60), shutouts with 42, strikeouts with 906, and strikeouts per seven innings with 10.13. 
Kobata's supporting staff of freshman Angela Bessolo, who was named Big East Co-Rookie of the Year, junior Joy Battersby, and sophomore Nichols, who was the NCAA leader in saves as of the end of April, have been consistent throughout the year and look to remain so at the championships. 
The Irish are in Region 2 of -the eight-region field, consisting of four teams each, and will face South Carolina in their first game. 
• NCAA SonoAu. ToURNAMENT 

Gamecocks first obstacle for Irish 
\K~ ~ECT G'-~l>UATlON G.lFT.~/ 
"A WGLL 
C3ALAMC€D t-4€AL" 
(~ CAATooN S ... rnrnP.I<."\\ 
\OF LlfE: UND"Eil-THc."\)omE) 
t\ GR'£Prr bu.. f"olt:­
-GRI\"'D\..JI\TlN(:, SENIOR') 
-AI...Uf'(\N\_1 -t:.VE-1"1 Fu·nJII.E. DoMEP.s/ 


(AifA;lABl£ AI nl£ WAf-1!-1£5 B00KSrOI26 AND Wll66l-lAFOI2.TUI\l6 ;1\JFO DESK) 

The change from coll~e to w?rk doesn't have to be an uncomfortable one. Just l!ke changing your beat-up college gear for a styl1sh and comfortable p01r of dress shoes, a career w;th Danko Business Systems can be iust what you need to get you off to the right start in the right career. 
With: comprehensive sales training! lucrative, established territories, career development planning, full benef1t program, 401 K, and unl1m1ted earnmg potential, you can easily see the advantages of being an ACCOUNT REPRESENTATIVE with Danko. 
As the nation's largest, independent, totally integrated manufacturer and marketer of copiers and fax machines, in partnership with Kodak, we're positioned for expansion in the marketplace. And so c~n you. Our su~erior quality products, staff support and nearly unlimited poten­
•  hal lor grov-flh 91ve our sale: ~orce the ba~kmg they need _to make their mark in  
•·  th1s h1ghly compet;hve f1eld.  Th1s IS the lime to fmd out about a great  
career with Danko.  
~~~  Contact Jim Archer for an interview:  
PH: 1·800-837·2631  FAX: 312·527-1786  
E-mail: dankaworld@aol.com  
--~~~~  Equal Opportunity Employer  
...  DANCA World-class products. World-class service.  


•
orrtsse3J 
anor 
congratu(ates anb 6tbs faremeff to tts cfass of 1996 
1!1•• 


Land Anderson Alex Andreichuk Josh Burick Dan Cardile Kevin Carretta Larry Caudillo Davide Dal Grande Shawn Delfausse Jim Dowd Brian Faiola Alex Gadala-Maria Rich Gallegos Neil Gehred Tim Glenister James Herro George Holloway Kevin Janicki 

Rishab Kapur Brian Kelly Nelson Kieswetter Phil Koserowski David Lykins Dan McConnell Jonathan McGhee Dave Meis Douglas Metz Ryan Montoya Dan O'Bryan Scott Palumbo Larry Patron Vince Pribish Todd Reinhart Jeremy Reyes Rowan Richards 
Mike Rimbert Mark Reuter, Law School Bruce Robertson Richard Rolle David Schaarsmith Aaron Schielke Chuck Seipel Dave Soyka Tom Sullivan Byron Taylor Rene Torrado Aaron Villaruz Graham Wingenfeld Mike Wong Jon Yarusso 
I. ' 

Friday, May 17, 1996 
The Observer • SPORTS page 37 
• NCAA lACROSSE TOURNAMENT • 

NCAA Division I Lacrosse Tournament 
1st Round Quarterfinals Semifinals Semifinals Quarterfinals 1st Round
May 11 
Harvard 
) Harvard 
Hofstra 
Sunday, May 19 
CHAMPIONSHIP

Virginia 
GAME 
Saturday, May 25 

Syracuse 

........................

j Syracuse 
National Champlonahlp

Army Coli~• P111rk, Md. 
May27

Saturday, May 18 
North Carolina 
May 12 
Townson State

(;n!OO$(a~ {~t~ 
Saturday, May 18 
1 
,_,Prin~1Q!! 
-..o.• J@MH~~=~~~ 
Sunday, May 19 
Maryland 
The men of St. Edward's Hall salute our fellow hall..mates, past and present, for their years of hard work, good times, and spiritual growth. All the best in everything that you 
do and become!  
John Alhrighton  Junlei Li  
Dan Berens  Matthew Limtiaco  
Greg Bieg  John LoGiudice  
Mike Bourke  Joe Lovechio  
Tom Boyce  John Lucas  
David Bradley  Nathan Markell  
Tom Bradshaw  Ken Maverick  
Ryan Braun  Scott McDermott  
Ryan Brown  Marc McLean  
Jacoh Bump  Charlie McMahon  
Paul Capobianco  Tom Mescal  
Todd Clare  Steve Miller  
Jeff Cluver  Alex Montoya  
Matt Dayton  Todd Murphy  
Dominic Devito  Bryan Ninosky  
Frank Diorio  Mike Norbut  
Kevin Dolan  Peter O'Neill  
Ted Donnelly  Hitesh Patel  
Isaac Duncan  Chris Pelic  
Dan Eklund  Cart Peters  
Ben Gaffney  Mark Posmer  
Jun-Jun Gapasin  Jim Rohr  
Rafael Gonzalez  Pat Rowland  
Brendan Heatherman  Mike Shveima  
Chip Highsmith  Chris Sophie  
A.J. Eifert  Bill Sterba  
Ronaldo Jacinto  Dan Wajerski  
Greg Klenke  Denny Wheeler  
Bill Lanza  David Woynerowski  

Congratulations and special thanks to you too, Barto 
Irish fall in first round 
By TIM SHERMAN Sports Editor 
For the sixth time in seven years, the Notre Dame lacrosse team was invited to the 12­team NCAA tournament. But for the first time in those seven years, the failed to live up to realistic expectations, as the Irish fell to Johns Hopkins 12-7 last Sunday at the United Stated Naval Academy in Annapolis, Maryland. 
After advancing into the quarter-finals last season and posting a quality 3-3 record against ranked competition this season, for the first time in their history, the Irish were not big underdogs. 
However, the perennially powerful Blue Jays proved that their 6-5 regular season mark was far from indicative of their capabilities. 
In particular, it was the abili­ty of the Hopkins defense to shackle a relatively low-octane Irish offensive attack in the fourth quarter that led to the first-round elimination of' Kevin Corrigan's young squad. 
"I think we have a good de­fense and I think we have one 
Senior J.T. Tremante and the Irish fell in the first round for the fifth time in their last six tourney appearances. 
Congratulations Siegfried Hall Graduates: 
Mandy Abdo Jennifer George Norma Aros Christi Hancock Kathleen Bailie Susanne Hardiman Nicole Bohn Shannon Hogan Lisa Braband Anne Janson Karen Carr Lauren Kalberer Carrie Christianson Dawn Kasperski Debbie Ciallella Pam Kennedy Kathleen Clark Jennifer Knell Lucy Coughlin Tanya Kryvvaruczenko Erin Cox Jiyoung Lee Angie Coyle Kaylee Lentine Wendy Crabtree Annie Linehan Marianne Cusato Lucy Lopez Kristen Dudas Erin Lyons Kelly Duffy Tania Macioce Clara Finneran Elena Maguire Danielle Fresch Margery McCormack 
Megan McGrath Lisa McManus Alex Mensch Jen Michalec Jennifer Moriarity Mary-Kate Morton Nancy Munoz Beth Murchison Nicole Najarian Cheryl O'Brien Claudia O'Brien Mary Plumb Kathy Quaile Sarah Reishman Nancy Rocha Noemi Romero Sara Ryan Sheila Samson 
Katie Schafler Nicole Schuster Valerie Sena 
Joellen Shannon Debra Shapiro Karen Shopoff Amy Siegel Sheri Slaughter Caroline Smith Rachael Stehle Maria Stransky Laurie Stride Lara Sweedo Amalia Villafan Sherri Vitale Renee vonWeiss 
Jen Yannucci Sheila Zachman 
of the best goalkeepers in the country (in Jon Marcus)," Blue Jay coach Tony Seaman said after the game. "I think in the first quarter, they had three one-on-ones with Marcus-and he stopped all three." 
Despite the discouraging in­ability to convert easy scoring chances, the Irish trailed close­ly 5-4 at half-time. 
And after a Will DeHiso tally at late in the third stanza, tho Irish again trimmed the lead to just one at 7-6. 
But history repeated itself harshly for the Irish, as a Chris Dusseau's redirect hit the pipe, evoking memories of a DeHiso pipe shot in last year's heart­breaking loss to Maryland in the tournament. 
In both cases, the blown op­portunity cost the Irish the ever-important momentum. 
"At that point, we felt like we were going strong," midfielder Jimmy Keenan said. "We just missed a couple of opportuni­ties that would have gotten us ahead." 
Those missed chances came back to haunt the Irish, as Hopkins outscored the Irish 5-1 in the final quarter to advance. 
The Observer/Rob Finch 

1996 Final National Media Lacrosse Poll 
1 Princeton 8-1 2 North Carolina 12-3 3 Virginia 9-3 4 Maryland 8-2 5 Johns Hopkins 5-3 6 Syracuse 8-3 7 Brown 6-4 8 Loyola 6-4 9 Notre Dame 7-3 10 UMass 6-4 11 Georgetown 7-3 12 Bucknell 10-0 13 Penn St. 9-3 14 Hofstra 5-4 15 Harvard 6-2 16 Towson State 6-4 17 Duke 5-6 
Some people come into our lives and quickly go. 18 Hobart 5-5 Some stay /or a while, touch our hearts, and we are never ever the same. 19 Army 7-4 -dedicated to senior Mandy Abdo . ,_2_0_Y_a_le____6_-_5--J 
• 
:~ 
Associate SportS Editor  
After sweeping through the  
conference with a 16-5 mark  
this season, Villanova was  
poised to carry that momentum  
into this week's Big East  
Tournament. The Wildcats,  
however were treated to a rude  
awakening Tuesday losing their first game to St. John's. After dropping their first  The Observer/Brian Hardy Darin Schmaltz went the distance as the Irish defeated Villanova 7-3.  
tournament game to West  
Virginia 10-8, Notre Dame had  
to defeat these. same Wildcats in their second tournament  To Mike and  
game to stay alive. The Irish proved to be up to the chal­lenge, defeating the regular  the Class of  
season champs on Wednesday 7-3 to remain in the double  '96  
elimination format.  
Action will resume today after yesterday's slate of games were rained out in Norwich, Connecticut.  Follow your dreams wherever  
Darin Schmalz went the dis­tance against Villanova, allow­ they may take you!  
ing only four hits as he im­proved to 8-4. He also record­ Love,  
ed three strikeouts in his nine innings of work. Schmalz received plenty of  Mom, Dad, Rich, and Alfie  
offensive support as the Irish  The Observer/Rob Finch  
jumped on top with five runs in  Mike Amrhein's two RBI againt Villanova helped the Irish advance to  
the first off loser Sean Dunne.  the third round of the Big East Tournament.  
Right fielder Rowan Richards  
had three hits, while center  
fielder Scott Sollmann went 2-4  
and scored twice. Bob Lisanti  
and Mike Amrhein also con­ 
tributed with two RBI apiece. Villanova would get three of those runs back in the second  ~orin Q:ollrgr  
before Schmalz found his  
rhythm for the rest of the con­ OF THE  
test. Notre Dame then received  
two insurance runs in the bot­tom of the seventh to end the  of Rotrr llamr flu 1Cac  
Wildcats' tournament hopes.  
The Irish were able to re­bound against Villanova after  GRADUATING SENIORS,  
letting an 8-5 lead slip away against West Virginia in the  1996  
eighth inning on Tuesday.  
Jason Frushour's two-run dou­ 
ble provided the key hit as the  
Mountaineers rallied for five runs to win 10-8. Three walks and an error put West Virginia  Daron Holmes Scott Johnson  
in a position to mount the  Brian Kane  
comeback. The double scored Josh  Kevin Krayer  
Williamson and Chris Swaney  Marc Liebman  
with Frushour later crossing the plate as he scored his fourth run of the game. Notre Dame again bolted out of the gate, taking a 4-0 lead after three innings. Rowan  I Jamie Malcolm, III Jonas McCormick ... Br~an McQuaid Greg O'Brien  
Richards homered for the Irish,  Josh Parker  
while Amrhein and George Restovich each added two RBI.  A!ldY ~ebesta  
Rich Sauget took the loss for  Christian Shields  
Notre Dame in relief of Pat Davis who allowed three runs  M~~eSiease  
in less than an inning.  Taylor  
Greg Henebry worked five innings, allowing four runs and seven hits. After giving up one  Drew Tilson '?-:J~'~>Y'" .,.,. .' Nathan Utz  
run, Alex Shilliday then gave  
way to Davis.  

page 38 The Observer • SPORTS 
• B!G EAST BASEBAlL TO!Jf!NAMENT 
Irish upset reigning Wildcats 
By JOE VILLINSKI 

-----~-------~------------~ ~ 
-------------~-----­
Friday, May 17, 1996 The Observer • TODAY page 39 
FOUR FOOD GROUPS OF THE APOCALYPSE DAVE KELLETT YOUR HOROSCOPE JEANE DIXON 
()r..~..~ WoNoP.ovs T1-1 l~ T\V>n-T'M S,..,.t<OoN£, 
o.. ft\"1, . ,. (M ... _........,m--. 
'-..__ 
Or G>uP~"-lr< l"a4.Z, \.NITI-1 AG.floup Cf ~T~ TAA~E.'-•"'G, Awzo~S Cov 


CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 
1 Isolated 
e Low-fat 13 Erin minority 14 Johnny 
Carson's 
magician 18 Earmark 11 Provoke 181nventor's 
monogram 11 Elvis Presley's 
label 21 Worn-out model 24 Eisenhower and 
others 25 Opal finish 2t Epinephrine 
combats it 21 U.S. Amb. to the U.N., 1961-65 
28 Dominoes 30 Former defense grp. 32 Like a pitcher's 
bag 34 Child's needs 38 Sharpened 38 Swim contests 41 Ship's 
opposite 42 Bridge 
strength? 44 Hurts 4t Asian holiday 47 Strong --ox 48 Quite a bargain 41 Bosses at 
bonus time 52 Sch. in Troy, 
N.Y. 

53 Sebastian's bride in "Twelfth Night" 
54 Real brain 58 Dallas family 58 Hockey taboo 80 Bed check? 81 Kicks back. in a 
way 
DOWN 
1 Weight lifter's lift 2 Sub-launched missile 3 Legally off base 4 Grande opening? 5 Meteor's path 8 Opposite of neche 1 Adriatic peninsula 1 Cab driving, e.g.? 1 Punjabi garb 10 McDonald's founder Ray 

21 Six-looter 41 Missile 11 "Hud" director 11 Useless launchers Martin
31 Dead, as a bulb 12 Made with 

33 "Cheers" bar 47 Nabokov II Its slogan was bricks owner heroine and once "Parade ol 14 Cleveland five 
namesakes Stars" 11 Goddess ol 
31 Leave off 

38 Hayes's Veep 10 Popular theater 11 Back burner? 
agriculture 

name 57 Prefix with light 
31 Activate Illegally 
20 "The Eagle and the Arrow" writer 
31 "--lies a tale" 

HAPPY BIRTHDAY! IN THE NEXT YEAR OF YOlJR LIFE: Demonstrate your leadership skills. New starts and fre'h undertakings will prove rewarding. Wait until Sep­tember to change your domestic arrangements. Travel is likely in late fall. Financial tirepower increa,es by Christmas. As 1997 gets underway, end a rclatiomhip that has become a liability. Your energy and imagina­tion make you a human dynamo! Trw.t your instincts in your career and romance. A marriage that takes place next April will be especially blessed. 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: boxing great Sugar Ray Leonard. actor Dennis Hopper. broadcaster Kathleen Sullivan, opera singer Birgit Nilsson. 
ARIES (March 21-April\9): Ter­ri lie progress can be made at work. Keep up with new developments in your tield. Usually drawn to ani~tic types. you may now he fascinated by a technical ex pen. 
TAlJRlJS (April 20-May 20): Clever innovations should he imple­mented both ar work and in your home. Reward your mate or panner for being loyal. Othc,., are astounded when you act our of character. 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Your destiny rests in your hands. Others are willing to do your bid­ding. An unusual career attracts you, hut it may nor pay the bills. A lucky break gives you a new sense of 
as!\urancc. 

CANCER (June 21-July 22): Higher-ups may 'ense your restless­ne,s. Realize that life takes many twists and turns. A secret will he revealed to you in a special way. Keep it to yourself. 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Your enrerprhing nalllre makes a good 
Seniors... 
Congratulations to the class of 1996. Best of luck in all you do from your friends at The Observer. 
impression on VIP,. A well-calculat­ed business gamble will pay off handsomely. Do not press your luck too far. A void investing money you cannot afford to lo,e. 
VIR(;() (Aug. 2.~-Sept. 22): Your panner inspires you to try something new. You may hal'e ro make cenain concessions. High hopes improve your performance at "ork. You will enjoy playing host tonight. 
LIBRA (Sept. 2HX:t. 22): Make sure you have a plan if you decide to take a gamble now. A change of environment bomrs your spirits. Get away early for a fun-filled weekend with that special person. 
SCORPIO (Ocr. 23-Nov. 21): Try nor ro worry so much about security. You arc rrch with ideas that could bnng you a fortune. While shopping for electronic equipment you uncover a real bargain. 
SA<;JTTARil S (Nov. 22-Dec 21 ): Plan to 'pend some time by yourself today. You rau accomplish a lot if you 'ed Jlitude. Look for new ways to "t through red tape. Screen yr" calls to avoid time­wastino .onver!oallons. 
CAI'RICOR~ (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): New demands are made on your time and energy. Revise your schedule to accommodate someone who has helped you in the past. Friends give you 1 aluable support. 
AQlJARlliS (Jan. 20-Feh. IK): People have a hard time putting any­thing over on you. Strike a better balance between work and play. Your confidence soars when vou stop dwcllmg on past mistakes. ­
PISCES (Feb. I<J·March 20): Do not take on another person's duties -you have enough of your own. Be philosophical about recent devel­opments in a husiness alliance or lmc rclallonship. 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

22 Rlddle 40 Maritime tree 23 It's left behind 41 Sharpen 28 Dermatologists' 43 Store on the cases farm 

The Observer 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompany­ing form and mail it today to receive The Ohsf'rvf'r in vour homf'. 
Get answers to any three clues by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420­5656 (75¢ each minute). 
Make checks payable to: and mail to: 
The Observer 
P.O. BoxQ Notre Dame, IN 46556 
0 Enclosed is $70 for one academic year 
0 Enclosed is $40 for one semester 
Name ____________________________________________ Address _______________________________________ City-------State ____Zip______ 
.. 
SPORTS 
page 40 Friday, May 17, 1996 
r 
~ 
! 
l New cha01pions in town
I 
I  
I  
I  
r  
I I l  A dichotomy of two seniors  
f  
!  By JOE VILLINSKI  
Associate Sports Editor  
Seniors Michelle McCarthy  
...  and Ashley Scharff never spent much time on the  
same end of the field  
during the women's  
soccer championship  
season.  
While McCarthy  
created havoc for  
opposing defenses,  
Scharff anchored a  
Notre Dame de­ 
fense responsible  
for eighteen  
shutouts.  
The forward and  
the sweeper pro­ 
vided a dichotomy  
that was para­ 
mount during Notre  
Dame's title run. If  
the right didn't  
score on you, the left  
made sure you didn't  
score either.  
Now, the two seniors  
who roamed either side  
of Alumni Field this year  
can share in the honor of  
being named Female  
Athlete of the Year. Each  
accepts the honor with the  
humility that embodied this  
year's squad.  
"I don't know what to say about  
being Athlete of the Year except that  
I'm so proud of what the team did this  
year," McCarthy said.  
"Our whole defense played awesome this  
year and I was just one part of that," Scharff  
added.  
McCarthy finished the season with 17 goals  
see SOCCER I page 32  


• 
~Athlete ~f t~ 
Career-minded Mayes ready to take on the NFL 
By TIM SHERMAN Sports Editor 
Many students begin their four years without any firm idea of what they want to do with their life. In fact, some even end their four years as such. 
1995-96 Observer Male Athlete of the Year Derrick Mayes, however, is an exception. 
"I always thought I had the ability to play in the NFL," Mayes said. "It has been a dream of mine. It's definitely something I want to do." 
Starting next September, Mayes will get his opportunity with the Green Bay Packers. The NFC Central Division champs drafted Mayes with the 56th overall pick. 
Many, including Mayes himself, expected the Indianapolis native to go a bit higher but the Packers aren't complaining. 
"We were a little surprised he was still there," Green Bay Packers coach Mike Holmgren said. "There was a good group of wide receivers and we hoped it would stretch out. We were fortu­nate that he was there. We got the player we hoped to get." 
In the process, Lou Holtz lost the player he hoped he could keep for awhile longer. 
.....CitJ~!!IIa~ 
Images to remember 
Associate Sports Editor 

As time gradually eclipses the national championship wom­
en's soccer season, images come into focus. Images of dom­
ination. Images of persever­ance. Images 
of glory. 
Images that the Notre D a m e women's soc­cer team left with Irish fans as part of their focus this year. 
F o c u s became a key word during the season. Every time it was uttered, every player un­derstood its impor­
tance. 

This intangible provided a reminder of what was needed to accomplish the ultimate 
goal of winning a champi­onship. "It was something that got us 
going," senior forward Michelle McCarthy said. "When it was said, everybody knew what it meant." Now each member of the squad can merely look to their ring finger to be reminded of the word's importance. It was head coach Chris Petrucelli's idea to 
The Observer/Brent T ads en 
Derrick Mayes' six-catch, two-touchdown performance in the 1996 Orange Bowl capped his brilliant four-year career for the Irish. 
"Derrick Mayes is as fine of but there is more to the 6-foot­receiver as we've had at Notre 2, 200-pound All-American Dame," praised Holtz. ''I'm than just the ability to catch talking about a true receiver." the baiL 
Such a true receiver's most What also separated Mayes prominent attribute would from ordinary receivers was his surely be his hands. Such is definitely the case with Mayes see MAYES I page 33 





