
Monday, March 4, 1996• Vol. XXVII No. 102 · THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Peace Corps service impacts alumnae lives 
By MAUREEN HURLEY pared with only 33 percent in Development Volunteers are Saint Mary's News F.diror 1961. ~~$!~~!/:·:_<: ·-\f~f now working with," Wilson Leslie Wilson, a 1976 Saint 50%38% said. Since its conception, Saint Mary's alumna, said, "I decided . . Peace Corps . ··8% 10% f "My job is to support them­
turns 35, the agency · · 

Mary's women have been in­I needed and wanted a big 11% 16% administratively, programmati­
has 7,000 volunteers_;_·

volved in the Peace Corps. As change of pace and direction in N.A. 14% cally, and emotionally-so they
an all-time high. 

the good-will organization cele­my life," so at age 35, she can go about the incredibly
A look at the corps: N.A. 17% 
brated its 35th anniversary last joined the Peace Corps. challenging work of helping Friday, many Saint Mary's Wilson earned a social work 1961 1996 *Prograrnnamedidnotexistin 
1961 people who have lived and 
alumnae reflected on their ex­degree from Saint Mary's Col­-li-o-ta_l_v_o_l_u_nt_e_e-rs~--=;;.~;,;,~;,;y~""";·~,=!11;"'Lo~,.,,, Countries served functioned in a communist so­1~""' 
periences with the service­lege, a master's degree in non­ciety make the mental and fi­based organization. profit management from the Average age 22'' ·29 · Africa nancial transition to a free 
The Peace Corps began in University of Notre Dame, and Volunteers 50+ 6 527 Asia/Pacific Islands 5 18 market economy and demo­1961, with only 96 volunteers, a degree in women's studies Female 33% 54% Centrai/S. America 3 24 cratic society." and has grown to the point that from Northwestern. Eastern Eur./ Looking back on her diverse
Married 15% 8%
it currently has 6,586 people This academic background experience with the Peace
Mediterranean 0 21
College degrees 81% 97%
serving around the world. As landed her a volunteer position Corps as both a volunteer and a 
Some graduate work 15% 23% New countries 12 36**
the number of volunteers has serving in community devel­staff member, Wilson said, "I
**Since 1990 
grown, so has the proportion of opment projects in Thailand in loved my Peace Corps experi­women. Women are taking a 1990, after the area was devas­AP ence. I was constantly chal­more dominant role in the tated by a typhoon. ager for Small Business Devel­"In my current role, I have lenged mentally, emotionally, Peace Corps, as they compose Currently, Wilson is a staff opment in the Republic of Mul­helped create the programs spiritually, physically and intel­
dova, of the former Soviet and job placements that the
54 percent of individuals serv­member for the Peace Corps, 
Union. first group of Small Business
ing in the Peace Corps; com-serving as the Program Man-see CORPS I page 4 
Saint Mary's Sib Fest '96 


Security plans storage program during break 
By TRACY ALLEGA 
News Writer 
With the large number of burglaries that occurred in off­campus apartment areas dur­ing Christmas break, Notre Dame Security/Police will offer a Spring Break Storage Pro­gram. 
Off-campus students may bring anything they consider valuable to the Campus Security Building on March 7 or 8 between 3 p.m. and 6 p.m. Items should be picked up after break on March 18 or 19 between 8 a.m. and 4 p.m. 
Lieute.nant Irv Sikorski en­courages students to take ad­vantage of this free service. "The only thing it costs is your time," he said. 
Students may bring in any item that is boxed or securely packaged and clearly labeled with the student's name and phone number. 
Popular items put in storage when this service has been of­fered in the past include televi­sions, VCRs, stereos, and com­puters. Sikorski emphasizes that any item that is important to a student will be stored. He said during one break, a stu­dent only stored his hockey equipment. 
Students may bring in as many items as they want, as storage capacity has never been reached, so there has been no reason to set a limit. During the past Christmas break, when a series of bur­glaries in off-campus apart­ments occurred, only 15 stu­dents brought their valuables to the Security Building. The storage service is not usually offered during breaks shorter than one week, but Notre Dame Security projects that more stu­dents will show an interest as a result of the recent burglaries. 
Although Notre Dame Secu­
see STORAGE I page 4 

HCA offers service alternative for grads

The Observer/Margaret Kensinger 

L
ittle kids were seen all around campus, as Saint Mary's College hosted its annual Little Sibs weekend March 1-3. 
"It was a nice weekend, and a great chance for us to bond with our little sibs," said freshman Lisa Zacharias, whose 9-year-old broth­er, Bobby, (left) showed off his Fighting Irish spirit by sporting Notre Dame apparel and a four-leaf clover on his face. Bobby, a third­grader, came from Lockport, Illinois, to spend the weekend at the College. 
Activities were offered throughout the day, including music lessons from older sibs (above), face paint­ing, tie-dying, finger painting and various arts and crafts projects. 
"All the activities were geared for little kids my brother's age," said Zacharias. 
By MATTHEW LOUGHRAN 
News Writer 
While the majority of 
graduating seniors are plan­
ning for graduate school and 
jobs, for the past 18 years, the 
Holy Cross Associates (fiCA) 
have offered another option 
through their year-long post­
graduate program of service. 
"The program is meant for 
individuals to live out their 
faith," said John Pinter, Direc­
tor of HCA. "We take people 
and place them in six areas 
across the United States for 
one year of service." 
They also offer a two-year in­
ternational program in Chile. "Opportunities available through the program range from teaching in schools to helping out in drug and alcohol 
rehabilitation. 
"We place students into Holy 
Cross parishes or schools in 
Massachusetts, Pennsylvania, 
Oregon, Arizona, Colorado and California," said Pinter. "We place them in areas where the Holy Cross order already has an established institution be­cause that way the students are expected and have places to live and service jobs estab­lished for them." 
Students interested in the program must turn in applica­tions before spring break. This year's applications are due Fri­day, March 8. The applicants then go through an interview process that takes place the first full weekend after spring break. 
The actual program work begins on July 27, with a week of orientation at Notre Dame. The students are then sent out to their respective cities where they will live and work for just under a year. 
"We start and end it right in 
see SERVICE/ page 8 

page 2 
• INSIDE COLUMN 

Redefining our pnonttes 
The soap on my hands Sarah Cashore was tinged a pale blue 
as I turned on the water Assistant Accent Editor 
to rinse the foam ofT my 
hands. The words were still there, fainter 
than they had been before, covering my left 
palm, extending even to the other side of my hand. Ironically, I felt like Lady MacBeth: would this hand never be clean? 
The ink on my hands eventually faded, but the words I had hurriedly written remained with me. Perhaps it had not been the most intelligent decision to write a variety of statis­tics in permanent marker on my own body, but finding myself without paper while listen­ing to Professor Steven Bright of Yale Law School, it had seemed an appropriate action. 
I decided to attend Professor Bright's February 13 lecture on the death penalty because it is an issue about which I have always been concerned. The lecture undeni­ably increased my interest in and solidified my convictions about the morality of the death penalty. However, as my work began to pile up again, I quickly became wrapped up in papers and tests. Then a friend and I went to see "Dead Man Walking." 
Listening to Professor Bright was one thing; seeing the story of death-row inmate Matthew Poncelet played out before me was something entirely different. The last 45 minutes of the film were perhaps the most powerful I have seen, with the exception of "Schindler's List." During those 45 minutes, I began to relate Professor Bright's lecture to the film. One phrase particularly evoked memories of standing before the sink washing blue foam ofT my hands. In the final days of his life, Poncelet has been moved to the prison where he is to be executed. Placed under 24 hour surveillance, Poncelet tells Sister Helen Prejean, "Never had so many people caring about what I did before." 
This line made me think of a point raised by 
Professor Bright. who noted that while a child 
born into poverty in the United States does not 
receive anything close to adequate support 
from the federal government, there is one way 
in which any individual can be supported for 
the duration of his or her life: commit a vio­
lent crime. Our nation is all to willing to 
address the issue of crime and to jump on the 
"Tough on Crime" bandwagon, but there 
seems to be a fundamental flaw in our priori­
tizing. Yes, we address the issues of crime, but 
we address them too late. As he awaits execu­
tion, Matthew Poncelet finally feels that some­
one is concerned about him, but what a price 
to pay for arousing the interest of others. 
I am not making a case for universal par­
dons for death-row inmates, and anyone who 
has seen the movie will acknowledge that 
while Tim Robbins' views are fairly obvious, 
he does not overlook the gravity of Poncelet's 
crime, nor does he excuse his actions. 
Sympathy for both Poncelet's victims and 
their families is clearly evoked; however, 
Robbins is careful to depict Poncelet not as a 
unfeeling monster, but as a human being fac­
ing the abrupt end of his life. Perhaps if we 
recognized the human needs of all members 
of society before we encounter them in our 
courts, prisons, and execution chambers, 
there would be fewer stories like Matthew 
Ponce let's. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
•  TODAV'S ;;; JAFF  
News Kristi Kolski Maureen Hurley Sports Tim McConn  Viewpoint Meghan Smith Production Mike Norbut Nathan Wills  
Graphics Brian BlanJ  Lab Tech Mike Hungeling  

Monday, March 4, 1996
The Observer • INSIDE 

• WORLD AT A GLANCE 
GOP hopefuls square-off in debate before next primary 
ATLANTA Sunday night's hourlong WSB-TV Grasping for an urgent Southern debate was a relatively staid affair, March revival, Pat Buchanan defended his with a few contentious exchanges but 
madness


controversial trade views and past edi­nothing rivaling the bristling encoun­torial writings in a televised GOP can­ters of recent debates in Arizona and 
The Republican presidential race
didates' debate Sunday night. He South Carolina. 
careens through a dozen states
directed most of his fire at the absent "This is charity night," Forbes said Bob Dole. at one point, after Alexander, using an Trying to derail Dole's gathering opportunity to question his rivals, 


!\cif~~i?:~· t:•F~l"'4 
{
momentum among Christian conserva­asked Forbes to name one thing he 
. ~-~4.~.}

tives, whose vote the two candidates liked about the Alexander and 
\~::.:::: 
Not to 
split in South Carolina's Saturday pri­Buchanan campaigns. scale mary, Buchanan called Dole a Not that there weren't disagree­···-~ "Beltway insider who has collaborated ments as the three sought an edge -No. of with Bill Clinton time and time again" and a formula to slow Dole -heading delegates on abortion issues. into Tuesday's ·"Junior Tuesday" vot­
March 2 South Carolina 37
Steve Forbes and Lamar Alexander ing in Georgia and nine other states. also joined in the courting of Georgia Forbes and Alexander, for example, Wyoming 12 conservatives, with all three candi­took issue with Buchanan's call for dates promising to support prayer in tariffs on Chinese and other foreign­March 3 Puerto Rico 14 schools. made goods, arguing they would 
As the campaign entered a week of amount to tax increases for American March 5 Colorado 27 rapid-fire voting in nine states, each consumers but do nothing to create 
Connecticut 27 

man considered a win in Georgia, new jobs to replace those that are which on Tuesday offers the week's eliminated or shipped overseas in the Georgia 42 biggest prize of 42 convention dele­changing global economy. 
Maine 15

gates. vital to stopping Dole's momen­"We're right about this," Alexander tum after his decisive South Carolina said. "You're wrong about this." Maryland 32 victory. Later, a panelist read criticism of 
Massachusetts 37

Reflecting the urgency of Buchanan that Forbes made earlier in Buchanan's Georgia effort, the candi­Ne'w York and asked Forbes if he Minnesota 33 date said he was considering scrap­wanted to confront his rival in person. 
Rhode Island 16

ping a planned swing through New Forbes appeared a bit uncomfortable York on Tuesday in order to do "heavy with the question, but did say he found Vermont 12 radio and television appearances" Buchanan newspaper columns defend­while Georgians went to the polls. ing suspected Nazi war criminals March 7 New York 102 
Carvey sitcom limited by SNL 
HOLLYWOOD 
Don't look for the Church Lady or her famous catch phase "Who could it be? Saaaaaaatan?" on Dana Carvey's new sketch comedy show. Keep an eye out for one of her family members, though. Carvey, who starred on "Saturday Night Live" from 1986-1992, can legal­ly only use characters he created inde­pendent of the NBC series. "I can play 

the relatives, but not the characters," Carvey says in this week's TV Guide. Carvey says he will replace the Church Lady with her gay nephew -who bears a striking resemblance to his prim-faced aunt. In addition, Carvey says characters called "Germans Who Say Nice Things" and the 1996 presidential campaign will be key parts of "The Dana Carvey Show.' The ABC show makes its debut March 12. 

Astronauts' experiments play with fire 
CAPE CANAVERAL, Fla. 
Space shuttle Columbia's astronauts took a brief break from their orbital chores Sunday, enjoying the views of Earth some 180 miles below. The seven crewmen stag­gered their rest periods so as not to interrupt any of the science experiments, most notably those involving fire. The astronauts took turns burning a candle, paper and insulating material in an enclosed chamber to test smoke detectors and measure the spread of flames in weight­lessness. In a broadcast interview, shuttle pilot Scott Horowitz noted that Columbia -NASA's oldest shuttle, flying since April 1981 -had experienced hardly any malfunctions during the mission, which began Feb. 22. "Columbia is scheduled to land Thursday at the Kennedy Space Center. NASA is considering extending the 14-day flight by one day to allow for more experiments. 

Prison guard held hostage 
FORT LEAVENWORTH, Kan. 

Troops using fire hoses and pepper spray stormed a military prison Sunday to free a guard held hostage by an inmate the guard had confronted for wearing a T -shirt on his head. About 140 specially trained military police sol­diers made the rescue and restored order in the embat­tled wing of the U.S. Disciplinary Barracks, which remained under lockdown Sunday, said Janet Wray, prison spokeswoman. During the five-hour standoff, inmates made barricades, broke windows and set ofT fire extinguishers. The guard, Pfc. Thomas M. Enochs, was hospitalized in satisfactory condition with undisclosed injuries. Two other guards who tried to help him suffered minor injuries, but escaped without becoming hostages. Three inmates were treated for minor injuries. The name of the inmate who held Enochs wasn't disclosed. It was unclear how many of the 168 inmates imprisoned in the wing were involved, Wray said. 

'Star Trek' battles 'Star Twek' 
SALT LAKE CITY 

Producer Eric Jensen and his alter-ego, James T. Smirk, have a fight on their hands. It's not with the evil Klingon Empire or those pesky Romulans. It's worse ­lawyers are involved. Paramount Pictures, the owner of "Star Trek" and all its various permutations, has sued Jensen and playwright Rod Bedore for copyright and trademark infringements over their tongue-in-cheek "Star Twek" productions. Jensen and Bedore own the Off Broadway Theater which is. of course, just off Broadway in Salt Lake City. The 200-seat theater has been the site of three take-offs of the popular intergalac­tic adventures. The most recent is "Star Twek: The Voyager Home,.'' which follows the "Star Twek" charac­ters as they face "corporate downsizing" after peace breaks out across the galaxy. 
• INDiANA WEATHER • NATIONAL WEATHER 
Monday, March 4 
The AccuWeather® forecast for noon, Monday, March 4.
AccuWeather~ forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 
Pr9Ssure 
H L 


HIGH LOW SHOWE"RS RAIN T-STDRMS FLURRIE"S SNOW ICE" SUNNY PT CLOUDY CLOUDY 


COLD WARM 

The Observer (USPS 'i99 2-4000) is published Monday rhrough Friday except during exam and vaca1ion periods. The Oh'-t"rver is a memher of the A>•ociated ('r~s. All reprodue1ion right> are reserved. 
Atlanla  68  34  Dallas  76  52  New Orleans 75  48  
Baltimore  42  15  Denver  65  29  New York  39  22  
Boston  40  20  Los Angeles 65  55  Philadelphia 40  20  
Chicago  40  17  Miamt  76  62  Phoenix  73  53  
Columbus  41  9  Minneapolis  30  9  St. Louis  60  25  

Hamas strikes again with third bomb in a week 
Israelis urge suspension of peace talks 
By HILARY APPELMAN 
Associated Press 
JEHUSALEM 
A Palestinian bomber blew up a bus in downtown Jerusalem on Sunday, killing himself and 18 others and threatening to claim Mideast peacemaking as the next victim. 
Ten other people were wounded, seven critically, in the third suicide bombing in Israel in eight days. Prime Minister Shimon Peres declared war on the Muslim militant group llamas, which claimed responsibility for all three attacks. 
The force of the morning rush-hour explosion on Jerusalem's Jaffa Hoad shop­ping district turned the red­and-white city bus into a skele­ton of charred metal. Bodies contorted in death lay in the wreckage. One body was hurled several yards by the ex­plosion, and lay smoldering on the road. 
The corpse of a young man dangled out of a blown-out bus window. A stream of blood ran under the bus. and was quickly washed away by pouring rain. 
Six of the victims were identi­fied as migrant workers from Homania and two were Palestinians. 
The bomb -packing more than 30 pounds of TNT, plus nails for greater deadliness ­blew up the bus at 6:25 a.m. (11 p.m. Saturuay EST). 
Exactly one week earlier, a bus traveling that same No. 1 H route blew up on the same main stref't at around the same tinw, killing 25 victims and the suieich~ bomber. 
T h a t s a nw d a y , a s u i ci d e bomber attacked a bus stop near the coastal city of Ashkelon, killing one Israeli and the assailant. 
Presiuent Ezer Weizman, like many other Israelis, demanded on Sunday that Peres suspend 

EGYPT\\ ISRAEL i 50 miles 
LS 
; 

50 km
\ 

peace talks with Palestinians. 
"We are at war," Weizman said. "Things cannot continue like this." 
Peres did not do break off contacts, but sent new warn­ings to Palestinian leader Vasser Arafat, saying Israel would honor its side of the peace agreements only if the Palestinians did the same. "There will be no one-sided implementation," Peres said. 
Arafat denounced the bomb­ing and outlawed all armed Palestinian factions. 
The llamas offshoot that claimed responsibility announced a three-month moratorium on attacks so long as Israel does not crack down on llamas. 
Hundreds of angry Israelis gathered at the scene of the bombing throughout the day, 
scuffiing with mounted and riot police who tried to keep the crowd at bay. Three policemen were hurt in the confrontations. 
"Enough! Enough!" screamed a young woman at the site, where pouring rain washed away a stream of blood beneath the charred, mangled bus. 
Bystanders booed Peres when he arrived at the bombing scene under heavy guard. Onlookers yelled, "Peres, go home!" and "Death to the Arabs!" 
Peres, facing general elec­tions May 29, is under intense pressure to take dramatic steps to retaliate and restore a sense o( security to Israelis. 
After the Feb. 25 bombings, Peres sealed off the West Bank and Gaza Strip, barring 2 mil­lion Palestinians from entering Israel. On Sunday, he declared Israel to be at "war" with Barnas and announced that the government will set up more checkpoints along the border between Israel and the West Bank and station more troops at bus stops and in public places. 
The three bombings that have killed 43 victims in the past eight days have wiped out the comfortable lead Peres enjoyed in the polls over his hardline opposition. 

Clinton tries to salvage accord 
By SONYA ROSS 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
President Clinton struggled Sunday to keep the Mideast peace process from falling apart. but Israel immediately suspended U.S.-brokered nego­tiations with Syria. 
As Israel reeled from the third deadly bombing in a week, Israeli diplomats notified the State Department that talks with Syria at the Wye confer­ence center in eastern Maryland would be suspended indefinitely. 
The negotiations, which are focused on security along the lsraeli-Syrian border, were due to resume Monday after a weekend break. Secretary of State Warren Christopher, re­turning from a trip to Central and South America, was due to participate in some of this week's sessions. 

But Gaddi Baltiansky, spokesman for the Israeli Embassy. said the department had been notified there would be no session on Monday. He said the Israeli delegation, which met last week with a Syrian delegation, would re­main in Washington to see if there would be a resumption later. 
Clinton contacted Israeli Prime Minister Shimon Peres by telephone Sunday to express outrage at the latest attack, in which a Palestinian bomber blew up a bus in downtown Jerusalem, killing himself and 18 others. 
"This is a troubling moment, but I am determined to see that it does not defeat the peace process," Clinton said upon returning to the White House from a weekend at the Camp David presidential retreat. 
"We must spare no effort here in the United States to support Israel in ... defeating the forces of terrorism," he said. 
Having been informed of the latest attack by Anthony Lake, his national security adviser, Clinton also directed his senior Middle East advisers to meet to discuss the developments. 
Help us celebrate... Come in and sing "Happy Birthday" to us on Monday, March 4, and get a FREE Bagel.* 
1801 S. Bend Ave Limit one per customer. Topping not included. 277-4440 
• NEWS ANALYSIS 
Future of Israel-PLO peacemaking in jeopardy 
By NICOLAS TATRO 
Associated Press 
JERUSALEM 

Is the peace process dead? 
Hopes for a new era of peace in the Middle East lay shattered Sunday in the twist­ed. charred wreckage of bus No. 18. 
In Israel, the bombing and other recent attacks have transformed political dis· course. Where there was talk of peace, there is now talk of war. 
Prime Minister Shimon Peres. under pressure from angry Israelis to .retaliate against Islamic militants of the Hamas group, vowed to ..destroy this group com· pletely." 
"We see these days as a time of war," Peres told a news conference, pledging $100 million to the campaign to halt infiltrations and attacks. 
The government's program is to flood the Israeli capital with police and soldiers to give commuters a sense of security, tighten the closure of the West Bank and Gaza to prevent Palestinians from sneaking around checkpoints to enter Israel, and arrest Barnas activists and shut down their offict;S. 
..We are at war," President Ezer Weizman said, renewing his call for suspension of Israeli·Palestinian peace talks...Things cannot contin~ ue like this." · 
Some government officials are also proposing a cutoff of peace talks with Syria until · President Hafez Assad shuts down llamas offices in Damascus. Others suggest Peres send military forces to take out militant leaders liv­ing in PLO~run autonomy enclaves. 
Also, it now seems unlikely that Israel will withdraw forces from the West Bank city of Hebron in late March. 


graduating in 1989. She served 
was designed by Notre Dame architecture students. 
as the vice-director of a health 
Whitewater gets biggest 
The Observer 
is now accepting applications 
court test 
Free Pregnancy Test
for the following paidpositions: 
By JAMES JEFFERSON 
Referrals to Support Agencies 
Associared Press 
Associate Accent Editor 
Confidential Counseling 
LITTLE HOCK, Ark. 
Assistant Accent Editor 
President Clinton's Whitewa­ter partners and his successor 
SOUTH BEND • EAST DOWNTOWN SOUTH BEND 
as Arkansas governor go on 
Freshmen and Sophomores encouraged to apply. 
Ironwood Circle 417 N. St. Louis Blvd.
trial Monday in a case that 
2004 Ironwood Circle, Suite I CaII 234·0363
Please submit a resume and one page personal statement the political millstone Clinton 
could determine the weight of 
273·8986 {24 hours)
to Joey in 314 Lafortune by 7PM Monday, March 4th.
has worn since Whitewater emerged as a campaign issue 
Questions? Call631-4540 
BOTH LOCATIONS CONVENIENT TO CAMPUS 
,--
---·~--------------------------------------~~--~----------~~~--------.. 
page 4 
A firm foundation 
r 
r 
r 

The Observer/Dave Murphy 
This past weekend, around 80 students, faculty and staff from the Notre Dame chapter of Habitat for Humanity framed a house they are building in South Bend's Northeast neighborhood. The house 
Monday, March 4, 1996

The Observer • NEWS 
Corps 
continued from page 1 
lectually." 

Many individuals, like Wilson. turn to the Peace Corps for Sf~r­vice later in life although the average age of today's volun­teer is 29. Mina Costin, a 194 7 graduate of Saint Mary's, served in the Peace Corps from 1991-1993. 
"I had retired, and I wanted one last adventure before I re­tired for good," Costin said. She taught high school English on the edge of Budapest, Hun­gary, for two years, due to the greater demand for English teachers in Eastern Europe fol­lowing the fall of the Iron Curtain and the end of commu­nism. 
"I gained a real-word under­standing of and a real liking for the Hungarian people," said Costin. 
"Their high school students are a lot like ours-they're friendly and hardworking," she said. "However, I found the Hungarian students were less apt to give their opinion be­cause they were under com­munism for so long." 
In order to gain that "real­world understanding," many individuals serve with the Peace Corps directly after grad­uation. 
Rebecca Jasper Saint Mary's alumna, served in Zaire after zone, consisting of 19 health centers and two hospitals. "I was exposed to an entirely dif­ferent culture. 
You really learn how to deal with different people, cope with different problems, and really develop as a person," said Jasper. 
Jasper's uncle was one of the first groups to serve in the Peace Corps. Based on their different experiences, there is evident differences between the image of the organization as it celebrates its 35th anniversary than in its beginning, according to Jasper. 
"Back then, a lot of people had a stigma against it, like it was a waste of time," said Jasper "It had a bad rap in the '70's. It's much more reputable now." 
Costin agrees on the positive impact that the Peace Corps has on the nation. "It's been a very good public relations pro­gram for the United States," she said. "They try very hard not to let us be the stereotypical rich tourists. We just live and think and work with the native people to give them what they want and need." 
Peace Corps volunteers work in 65 nations in Africa, Asia, Europe, South Africa, the Caribbean, and South Pacific and serve for two years plus a two to three year training pe­riod. 
In order to serve in the Peace Corps, individuals must be U.S. citizens over 18 years old with a college education, or at least 3 years specialized training in their chosen field. 
Volunteers stress that the op­portunity to serve in the Peace Corps exists at any point in one's life. "You can go at any­time. It's a wonderful experi­ence for people of all ages, no matter how you slice it," Costin said. 
"A couple years of Peace Corps service at the grassroots with people in countries who long and hunger for the bene­fits of a democratic, capitalistic society gives you an education and an opportunity unlike any you will ever have anywhere," Wilson said. "It will change you, and your life." 

in 1992. 
Clinton has been subpoenaed to testify, although whether he must take the witness stand in person has not been decided. 
Gov. Jim Guy Tucker, former financier James McDougal and his ex-wife, Susan McDougal, face fraud and conspiracy charges in a 21-count indict­ment returned by the Whitewater grand jury last summer. 
Whitewater prosecutor Ken­neth Starr alleges the defen­dants benefited illegally from nearly $3 million in loans from federally backed banks. 
Storage 
continued from page 1 
rity does not actually patrol off­campus areas during break times, officers work very close­ly with the city police de­partment in their attempts to protect student apartment ar­eas. In particular, Notre Dame Security/Police proved instru­mental in recovering many of the items that were stolen dur­ing the Christmas break. This semester, there has been a steady stream of students in the Security Building identify­ing property. 
"Wherever there is a high concentration of students, we hrdp nut in whatever way we can," Sikorski said. 
Three more reasons to buy a Macintosh this semester. 
I
• 
• 

Looking for a great deal on a printer? A complete system that's easy to use and perfect for all your school needs? Well, no need to look any further. Because while supplies last, you can receive up to $500 mail-in rebates when you buy sekcted combinations of Apple Macintosh computers, monitor-; and printers. Check out the latest in Apple Computers on Campus. They have everything for you to take home the power to make any student, faculty or staffs life easier. 


Notre Dame Computer Center Located in Room 112 Math and Computer Building South Bend, Indiana 46556 219-634-7477 or on the Web at http://www.nd.edu/-ndmac/ 


Power Macintosh 7200 Power Payback 
Rebate 
RAD event
ND to realign financial operations 
Special to The Observer 
Notre Dame will realign its financial and business opera­tions under two new associate vice presidents, according to 
Father E. William Beauchamp., executive vice president. 
J a m e s Lyphout, for­merly as­sociate vice 

president for Lyphout business affairs, has been promoted to associate vice president for busi­ness operations, with responsi­bility for administrative services, facilities construction and relat­ed activities, facilities opera­tions, materials management, and auxiliary enterprises includ­ing licensing, University Food Services, the Morris Inn and the Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore. 
Among these responsibilities, Lyphout will oversee almost $200 million in current con­struction projects, including four new residence halls; the renova­tion of the School of Ar­chitecture; a new book­store/Alumni Association head­

quarters/visi­tors' center complex; the expansion of Notre Dame Stadium; and 
the  renova­ 
tion  of  the  
M  a  n  

Malpass Building. 
s c 0 t t Malpass, formerly chief invest­ment officer, will become associ­ate vice president for finance, continuing his oversight of the University's investment manage­ment program for some $1.4 bil­lion in financial assets while adding responsibility for the 
University's budgeting and accounting activities. 
Both Lyphout and Malpass will work at the direction of Beauchamp, and the realign­ment of responsibilities will co­incide with the August 1996 re­tirement of Thomas Mason as the University's vice president for business affairs. 
"The increasing scope of 1he University's financial and oper­ational affairs suggests that each area should have its own executive under my overall di­rection," said Beauchamp. "Since we already are facing a transition in business affairs as the result of Tom Maon's im­pending retirement, now is the time to undertake this realign­ment." 
Lyphout was named the Uni­versity's assistant vice president for business affairs in 1984 and was promoted to associate vice president for business affairs in 1990. In addition to his other responsibilities, he has played a central role in the purchase and management of the University's real estate. He is a member of the board of Neighborhood Housing Services of South Bend and of the Saint Joseph County Solid Waste Advisory Board. 
Lyphout previously was direc­tor of general services at Northwestern University, where from 1977-84 he directed a staff of some 170 employees, and he served as business administra­tor of Chicago Reed Men tal Health Center, directing the non-clinical operations of the 550-bed psychiatric facility from 1972-77. 
Lyphout received his bache­lor's and MBA. degrees from Western Illinois university in 1969 and 1970, respectively. 
As chief investment officer, Malpass has worked closely with the investment and finance com­mittee of Notre Dame's Board of Trustees in managing the University's financial assets. These include an endowment valued at $1.1 billion as of December 1995-making it the 18th largest in American higher education; a $46-million pension plan; and almost $200 million in cash and short-term assets. Playing a leadership role in global and private equity invest­ing, Malpass has earned nation­al recognition for Notre Dame in endowment management. 
Malpass has coordinated the University's debt financing ac­tivities since 1990, and Notre Dame is one of only 10 major private universities with a AAA rating from Moody's Investors Service. 
to be held over break 
Special to The Observer 
Rape Aggression Defense (RAD), a personal safety pro­gram for women. will be of­fered to Notre Dame faculty and staff during the week of spring break, March 11-15. 
Two sessions have been scheduled, the first on March 11-13 from 8 a.m. to 12 p.m., and the second on March 13-15 from 1 p.m to 5 p.m. Both ses­sions will be held in 114 Loftus. 
The program, which is being offered on many campuses around the nation, teaches practical self-defense tech­niques that require no special equipment or skill and become instinctive with repetition. Participants will have the op­portunity to test their abilities on a real person during a simu­lated attack. 
The 12-hour program is taught by certified instructors and includes visual media pre­sentations, discussion and practical lessons. RAD is lim­ited to 20 women per class and is sponsored by Notre Dame Security-Police and the Notre Dame Department of Human Resources. For more informa­tion, call 631-6020 or 631­58-29. 
Please Recycle The Observer 



SOUTH BEND CENTER FOR MEDICAL EDUCATION MINI-MEDICAL SCHOOL SERIES 
Time: 7:00 -9:00p.m. Place: DeBartolo Hall (west ofstadium} University of Notre Dame 
Now anyone can learn what's new in medicine in these six free sessions, open to the general public. 
Session 1: Wednesday, March 6, 1996 Stress/Panic Disorders-Dr. James Brogle Obsessive Compulsive Disorders -Dr. David Wehlage 
Session 2: Wednesday, March 13, 1996 Stroke -Dr. Robert Kingsley & Dr. Steven Gable 
Session 3: Wednesday, March 20, 1996 Vaccines -Dr. Nancy Cole & Dr. Sheree Peglow 
Session 4: Wednesday, March 27, 1996 EthicaJ Issues in Medicine -Life, Death~ and Jack Kevorkian -Dr. Gary Fromm, Dr. Kevin McDonnell & Dr. John Robinson 
Session 5: Wednesday, April 3, 1996 Diabetes-Dr. Daryl Christ & Dr. Jennifer Lackman 
Session 6: Wednesday, April 10, 1996 Heart Disease -Dr. Kenneth Olson & Dr. Franklin Wefald 
For more information call (219) 631-5574 • To register call (219) 631-7177 
r-------­
' \ ' . 
. \ I I 

page 6 The Observer· INTERNATIONAL NEWS Monday, March 4, 1996 

Conservatives declare victory over Socialists 
By ANDREW SELSKY 
AssociareJ Press 
MADHID 
The conservative Popular Party -the party tied to the 1939-1975 fascist dictatorship of Gen. francisco Franco ­declared victory in Spain's elec­tions Sunday, saying they had ended the scandal-plagued Socialists' 13 years in power. 
Jose Maria Aznar, leader of the Popular Party, told thou­sands of followers in a victory speech that he would represent "all Spain" as prime minister and pledged to offer "a hand held out in tolerance." 
Socialist Prime Minister Felipe 
· Gonzalez all but conceded defeat to the Populists, congrat­ulating them for their "appar­ent" victory. "We will be a rigorous but responsible opposition (party)," Gonzalez told followers at party headquarters. He clutched a rose, the Socialists' trademark. With 90 percent of the vote counted, the election commis­sion said the Popular Party was winning 156 seats in the power­ful 350-seat lower house to the Socialists' 141 seats. The third­largest party, the Communist­led United Left, had 21 seats. · The party with the most seats gets to form a government and choose a prime minister. "I am very pleased to announce the Popular Party has won the election," party cam­paign director Mariano Hajoy declared after voting ended. At those words, thousands of conservatives -some with faces painted in the party's red, white and blue logo -erupted in celebration outside the Popular Party headquarters, cheering, waving party flags and popping bottles of alcoholic cider. Earlier Sunday, Gonzalez was heckled by bystanders who shouted "Get out!" and "Scoundrel!" at him as he went to vote. During the campaign, the Popular Party attacked the four­term prime minister as corrupt, while he countered that a Popular Party victory would mark a step back toward Spain's days of repression under Franco. But Aznar insisted that he represents the political center. Some 100,000 police were called out to provide security during the election, but there were no reports of incidents. Turnout was high, with 63 percent of Spain's 32 million registered voters casting ballots by late afternoon. Also being contested were 208 seats of the 256-seat Senate and a regional parliament in southern Andalucia. Some voters leaving Madrid polling stations on a sun­splashed day dismissed as exag­gerations the Socialists' warn­ings that a Popular Party victory meant returning to past repres­sion. "The Popular Party wants to improve the economy -to tax us less and to create more jobs," said Jose Miguel Bernardo Perez, 51. But other voters were wor­ried. ''I'm a little afraid of them. After all, I remember Spain's many years under the right," said a 42-year-old woman who ~ would not give her name. "The Popular Party might behave as centrists at first, but then I think they would move to the right." Aznar promised voters to fight 
corruption, try to create more jobs in a country with a 23-per­cent unemployment rate, bal­ance the budget and cut Spain's deficit. 
He also plans to crack down on the armed Basque separatist group ETA which has killed almost 800 people since 1968. Aznar himself survived an ETA bomb blast last April that destroyed his car. 
One of the worst scandals to hit the Socialists involves allega­tions that they directed a secret war of assassinations against ETA in-its safe haven in France in the 1980s. 
Gonzalez denies it, and has kept a former interior minister indicted in the case on the Socialist ticket. 
Aznar has not said how he will accomplish his economic reforms without cutting govern­ment jobs, slicing into pensions and social security, or raising taxes. 
• GREAT BRITAIN 

Divorce doesn't quiet Diana 
By RON KAMPEAS 
Associated Press 

Let's talk about the mar­
riage, Princess Diana tells 
Prince Charles. You, me, and 
through the miracle of televi­
sion, 60 mil­
lion Britons. 
No, says Prince Charles. Let's shut up. Especial­ly you. 

Newspaper stories pub-Princess 

.l i s h e d Diana 
Sunday said • 

Diana proposed the couple 
appear together on television 
to discuss their divorce -and 
Charles countered with a gag demand. 
The Sunday Telegraph re­ported that Diana told Charles in a meeting on Wednesday that a joint TV appearance ­like that which followed their 1980 engagement -would help the "healing process" necessary for the nation. 
Diana -inspired by her vol­unteer work with a marriage counseling organization, the newspaper said -also want­ed to declare publicly how much she still loved Charles. 
Charles was "adamantly op­posed," the paper said. 
Diana's last foray into TV in­terview-land was a tell-all ac­count in November of the breakdown of her marriage. with plenty of references to adultery on both sides. Soon afterward, Queen Elizabeth II wrote to her son and daugh­ter-in-law urging an early divorce. 
Diana took three months to consider before coming around on Wednesday -but that's about all both sides agree that happened at the meeting. 
According to Diana's office, there was agreement that her future title would be Diana, Princess of Wales, that she could keep her Kensington Palace apartment and offices at St. James's Palace, and con­tinue to be fully involved in the upbringing of their sons, Princes William, 13, and Harry, 11. 
According to Buckingham Palace, what Diana said were agreements were only re­quests. 
Diana's lawyer Anthony Julius fired off a tough letter to Charles' legal representa­tives Thursday warning: "If we cannot rely on agreements that have been made, it would be unsafe to continue negotia­tions." 
Charles' lawyer, Fiona Shackleton, replied by demanding a gagging clause in any divorce settlement that would stop Diana from further discussing the marriage, The Sunday Times reported. 
The Times also reported that Charles preferred to pay Diana an annuity instead of a lump sum. 

Because today is :mystery·meat day. 

It's everywhere )IOU want to be~ 
Cl Viaa U.S.A. Inc:. 199S 
Monday, March 4, 1996 
Dole hopes to start streak with Carolina victory 
Convention 



<~~ With complex delegate allocations and ~.·. I "" 
no clear front-runner, Republicans are ~ ·•. I 
wondering whether 1996 will be the first .a :6 . . . 
F "brokered" convention since 1952. • • the convention m San Diego. 
e ~ 
, ..'>..
b 2 Steve Forbes ...,{leads the delegate 
tA
8 count with 60, thanks 
a
to a winner-take-all 
r
bounty in Arizona. 
1 
In nine primaries, 2+. 241 delegates will 
• be rewarded. 
" 
,_ 
Wh v 
ena to anot. canaiaate 
'her ca ctrops
naiaate out, his delegates may sw•t~l the conven N • or they remain uncommitted unt• · · 

' 
'1, 

NOTRE DAME Acco·uNTING AssociATION 
& BETA ALPI-IA Psi 
Presents: 
5 will.attend ort from 996 has a lock on the nomination. 
I II 1 990 delegate hO Wins suPP 
n a Th'e candidate w 
.I 
Super Tuesday! In seven · .114.. states, including big gun ~\l· Texas, 362 delegates are 1­up for grabs. '\,: 
,!f \0 -).!. The California primary' ~ yields 165 delegates 
110 

C in a winner-take-all ,. bonanza. 
~ 
6 
. h 

At the convention, delegates work on 
the party platform and choose their nominee. In clear-cut election years, the vote is easy. But if no one has reached the magic number of 996 delegates, the convention becomes "brokered." Delegates vote once; if a second vote is necessary, they're free to vote for another candidate, setting off another 
round of campaigning -this one on the 
convention floor. 

AP 

'.fin inside look at yourfirst year in the Big Six 
Arthur Anderson first-year staff attempt to answer the following and more: 
How much did my classes really teach me? What's the balance between work and play? How do I find an affordable apartment? Where do I fit in with my new peers? Am I right for the Big Six? 
March 5th, 6:00 PM, Jordan Auditorium, COBA 
Free Pizza following!!!! 
All Club Members and Accounting Majors are encouraged to attend. 

Support for Buchanan wanes 
By MIKE MOKRZYCKI 
Associated Press 

NEW YORK 
Dubbed the "Dixie New Hampshire" as it became a critical battle in the tumultuous GOP presidential race, the South Carolina primary ended up as different from its north­ern cousin as, well, north and south. 
Bob Dole raided Pat Buchanan's support among the religious right and those who called the economy and jobs the top issue as he blew away the fiery commentator in South Carolina on Saturday. 
A comparison of exit poll re­sults from New Hampshire's Feb. 20 leadoff primary, in which Buchanan narrowly beat Dole, and the first-in-the-South skirmish finds Dole won more moderate and somewhat con­servative voters as Lamar Alexander fell to distant fourth. 
As overall vote stayed at New I-iampshire levels for Buchanan, who worked South Carolina hard, and Steve Forbes, who did not, Dole's 
By JOHN KING 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 

Bob Dole's big South Carolina victory brought no instant sur­renders in the Republican pres­idential race. But as Steve Forbes, Pat Buchanan and oth­ers battled on Sunday, their words betrayed a sense of in­evitability if Dole is not derailed in the GOP's defining week ahead. 
With eight primaries Tuesday and another on Thursday in New York, time is on Dole's side; rivals can't campaign ev­erywhere against the revived front-runner, nor is there much time for any new advertising to take hold. 
And with so many states in play at once -and a bunch more on the following Tuesday -the establishment support Dole can count on from gover­nors, senators and others should prove an invaluable as­set, as it did Saturday in South Carolina. 
"Senator Dole has enormous depth across the country," House Speaker Newt Gingrich said in an interview. And there's more to come: Texas Gov. George W. Bush could en­dorse Dole as .early as Wednesday, providing a boost for that state's giant March 12 primary. 
Gingrich talking about the presidential race, while Bush moves toward backing a candi­date, was vivid proof of how South Carolina had changed the nomination calculus. 
Dole was knocked from his place as front-runner two weeks ago in New Hampshire by rebel conservative Buchanan, who then lost the baton, along with Delaware and Arizona, to flat-tax cham­pion Forbes. It is now back in Dole's grasp, and it might stop changing hands if the Senate majority leader can hold it through the challenges this week in Georgia and New York. 

support also more than doubled Saturday among the very con­servativc. 
Exit polls by Voter News Service make clear that other important Dole gains came at Buchanan's expense in the closest thing yet to a head-to­head matchup between them: 
• 
Seventeen percent of New Hampshire GOP voters de­scribed themselves as part of the Christian conservative polit­ical movement, and they went 5-to-1 for Buchanan over Dole. Thirty-six percent in Saturday's primary said they were reli­gious right, and Dole -sup­ported by Gov. David Beasley, a darling of Christian conserva­tives ran even with Buchanan among them. 

• 
Even among South Carolina's religious right, one­third said Buchanan is too ex­treme. Among all South Carolina voters, half said that. 

• 
The economy and jobs were cited by 27 percent in New Hampshire and 22 percent in South Carolina as the most im­portant issue. 



.,.) Population 3.7 million 
l Registered 1.5 million voters (No party affiliation) 
;,J Race 
1% Other ----­30% Black-­69%White-­


·J Median household income $26,300 ·~ Poverty rate 13.8% () Unemployment rate 5.3% 
() 1992 vote Clinton Bush 
Perot 
0~slORE BASI(~ ~o 
0:::: 0 
LL. 
U) 
0.. 
z ~ I 
Cii 
" 
Mar. 3 ll-4PM LaF.&Lib. 
Mar. 4 ll-2PM LaF. 
6-9PM LaF.&Lib. 
Mar. 5 SAME AS MARCH 4 
Mar. 6 1OPM-?? Sr. Bar 
SMC $JO.OO/ 
Mar. 5 5-6PM SMC Mar. 6 5-6PM Dining Hall 
see: 
HTTP:/jwww.nd.edu/ 
-bkstrxxv 


The Spectrum of the Law 
Tuesday, March 5 
7:00 p.m. 136 DeBartolo A panel of lawyers representing a number of legal careers 
will discuss their career paths. ALL STUDENTS ARE WELCOME 
----------------------~----------------------------·---· 
,-------------~----------------------------------....., 
1 
page 8 The Observer • NEWS Monday, March 4, 1996 
~ 
• ISRAEL 
I ~ 

Assassin found fit to stand trial Many leaving as 1997 
ByJACK KATZENELL Amir says he shot Rabin to ation Sunday. But they angered 
r: 
Associated Press stop the government from giv­the judge by disagreeing over 
handover approaches
~ ing Palestinians control of West whether Amir should testify on TEL AVIV Bank land that many religious Monday. 
By RAYMOND CHOW China insists there will be no Psychiatrists have found Jews view as promised to them Although the defense has Associated Press communism to run away fromYitzhak Rabin's confessed as­by 'God. called Amir and his appearance -that it will not send in its ownsassin to be of sound mind and Amir maintains he did not is already scheduled, two of his Kwan Yuet-ngor fled the people to manage Hong Kongable to stand trial, the Tel Aviv necessarily want to kill Rabin, lawyers -Shmuel Flishman Chinese Communists in 1954. and that it will honor its pledgedistrict court announced but to paralyze him and remove and Jonathan Ray Goldberg ­On Thursday, her son did, too­to preserve Hong Kong's capi­Sunday. him from office. That was asked to delay the testimony joining the flow of Hong Kong talist system for at least 50"The accused is fit to stand registered as a not guilty plea until after they crossexamine Chinese who prefer to emigrate years. Nonetheless, more thantrial," presiding judge Edmond to the murder charges. pathologist Yehuda Hiss, who rather than face a future under a half million people have leftLevy said, distributing the con­He faces life imprisonment if conducted Rabin's autopsy. But Beijing's rule. since 1984, when Britain agreed clusions of a court-ordered psy­convicted. He could have been a third defense counsel, Amir In the chill of February's final to return its colony to China onchiatric evaluation of gunman tried for manslaughter and Shachar, said he had no objec­night, Edmond Chow boarded a July 1, 1997. 
Yigal Amir to prosecution and faced a lesser sentence if tions to Amir's testifying Cathay Pacific jumbo jet for Many have returned after ac­defense attorneys. deemed insane. Monday. 
Sydney, Australia. A small quiring the security of foreign The document was not hand­His defense, facing an uphill ·"Might I remind you gentle­group of friends and relatives residency rights. Governmented out to journalists. According battle after Amir surrendered men that you all represent the saw him off and took pictures. figures suggest emigration has to court sources, Amir was at the Tel Aviv shooting scene same client!" the exasperated Ilis 70-year-old mother, who even tapered off, and the hopefound to have had no mental and gave a detailed confession Levy said. Levy said he would moved to Hong Kong five years is China will do nothing spec­disturbance now or at the time to police interrogators, has decide on the issue of Amir's after the Communist takeover of tacularly negative -a repeat ofof the Nov. 4 shooting. been in disarray since the trial testimony Monday morning. 
China, fought back tears. "I the 1989 Tiananmen Square
The 25-year-old defendant began in December. During Sunday's session, the didn't sleep at all last night," bloodbath, for instance -that sat impassively during most of Defense lawyers initially said defense concentrated on un­she said. might trigger an exodus.
the four-hour session, which they would not claim Amir was dermining the credibility of po­Chow, a 31-year-old legisla­But China's critics say it hasended a three-week delay in insane, but last month decided lice investigators, a ballistics tive aide, is precisely the kind of not taken concrete action to al­the trial. Levy ordered the psy­to argue he was not in control expert and the surgeon who college-educated achiever Hong leviate fears that civil libertieschiatric evaluation last month. of his actions because he was operated on Rabin after the Kong needs to keep. But the will diminish after 1997 or thatsaying he wanted to ensure no obsessed. shooting. 
specter of a human exodus is Chinese corruption will infect one could challenge the trial as The defense team did not Shachar questioned police hanging heavier in Hong Kong's Hong Kong's orderly adminis­unfair. challenge the psychiatric evalu-ballistics expert Col. Bernard last 16 months of British rule . tration. 
site. While the program does • CUBA not accept all applicants, there
Service 
is no upper limit on the amount of participants accepted. So the 
continued from page 1 
New bill tightens sanctions
number of participants is very flexible, depending on the num­
the middle of summer so that By ROB WELLS Caribbean's largest country. bill, aimed at drying up foreign
ber of applicants. 
anyone who is interested in Associated Press "It certainly doesn't do any­investment in Cuba. It is ex­
"Of the people who apply,"
going to graduate school or law thing positive for U.S. busi­pected to pass easily in both the 
continued Pinter, "most have
school will not have any sched­WASHINGTON ness," said William LeoGrande, House and Senate. 
usually researched the programuling problems," Pinter said. 
A new bill aimed at toppling professor of government at The bill came to the forefront
and know what it is about.
Students are sent to work in Fidel Castro by tightening U.S. American University. "It does after the Cuban military shot
They know that it is a great
the poorer communities in Holy sanctions against Cuba could run the risk of disrupting nor­down two aircraft flown by ex­
chance to provide service to a
Cross facilities in the six cities, end up causing pain to U.S. mal trade and business rela­iles on Feb. 24.
community and live out theirwhich include Phoenix, Port­business, too, officials say. tionships with our closest al­It would allow American citi­faith."
land, and the San Francisco­
A provision allowing U.S. citi­lies." zens to sue foreign investorsApplications can be picked up
Oakland Bay area. zens to sue foreign corporations John Kavulich, president of who make use of Cuban prop­
at the SURV office on the Saint"Often the Holy Cross Order that use confiscated property in the U.S. -Cuba Trade and erty confiscated during the 35Mary's campus or at the Holy
will have a school, church, soup Cuba could create "economic Economic Council, calls the bill years of Castro's rule. An esti­
Cross Associates office in thekitchen, or orphanage that the chaos" with American trading tantamount to "laying out a mated $6 billion worth wasCenter for Social Concerns on
students will be placed in," 
partners like Mexico and welcome mat for U.S. competi­seized from more than 5,000the Notre Dame campus. 
Pinter said. 
Canada, several Cuba experts tors." U.S. businesses and citizensAnyone who is interested canThere are typically 39 stu­said. Last week, congressional after Castro's 1959 takeover ­call the Holy Cross Associates atdents in the program, seven per And it could help foreign com­leaders and President Clinton one of the largest takings of U.S.
631-5521 or 631-8016. 
panies gain market share in the agreed on the measures in the property in history. 

Is it the sound of that whispery voice, or those big, intellectual words? If your professors are putting you to sleep, Revive with Vivarin~ Don't let fatigue get the best of you. Vivarin's® the safe way to stay mentally alert, with the same caffeine as about two cups of coffee. So stay sharp in class. Don't sleep your way to the bottom. 
~SmffhKI"'• ,.._,.m
C1995 ~Consumer He•trhcar• Each tablet contains 200 mg of caffe1ne. equal to about two cups of coffee Use only as d1rected. 


OINT
Monday, March 4, 1995 
page 9 

THE OBSERVER 
NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q. Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY's 0HICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1995-96 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief John Lucas Business Manager Joseph Riley 
News Editor ................................ David Tyler Advertising Manager ........................... John Potter Viewpoint Editor .................. Meaghan Smith Ad Design Manager ...................... Jen Mackowiak Sports Editor ............................. Mike Norbut Production Manager .................. Jacqueline Moser Accent Editor ......................... Krista Nanncry Systems Manager ............................ Sean Gallavan Saint Mary's Editor .................... Pani Carson Observer Marketing Director. ......... Pete Coleman Controller ............................................. Eric Lorge 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by rhe student> of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It dot'S nor necessarily reAecr rhe policies of rhe administra­tion of either institution. The news is rerorted as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned edi­torials represent the opinion of rhe m~jority of rhe Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Pharo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and ln,ide Columns present the views of the aUihors, and not necessarily those uf The Oh,crver. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's com­munity and to all readers. The free expression of varying opinions rhrough letters is encouraged. 
Observer Phone lines 
Editor-in-Chief 6.31-4542 Business Office 631-5313 Managing Editor/Viewpoint 6.H -4541 Advertising 631-6900/8840Sports 6.31-454.3 Systems/l\hrketing Dept. 631-8839 News/Photo 631-5323 Office Manager 631-7471 Ao.:ent/Saim Mary's (,31-4540 Fax 631-6927 Dav Editor/Production 631-5303 Viewpoint E-Mail Viewpoint.! @nd.edu Ge~erallnformation 631-7471 Ad E-Mail observer@darwin.cc.nd.edu 


'Hard cases' complicate abortion discussion 
W
e need just one more column on abortion. Our last two, discussing partial birth abortions, urged that the law should forbid abortion in every case and whatever method. Many abortion opponents, however, concede that it ought to be allowed in "hard cases," to preserve the life or health of the mother, when pregnancy results form rape or incest or where the unborn child is de­fective. To round out our discussion, let's talk about those "hard cases." 
The most difficult case is where the abortion is claimed to be necessary to save the life of the mother. First, we should remember thitt operations to remove the cancerous womb of a preg­nant woman, or to rdieve an extra-uter­ine pregnancy, can be performed even under Catholic teaching if they are imminently necessary to save the life of the mother, even though they cause the death of the unborn child. Morally, such operations are justified by the principle of the double effect, since the death of the child is an unintended effect of an independently justified operation. They do not involve the intentional killing of the child for the purpose of achieving another good. Legally, such operations are not regarded as abortions at all. There is no need, therefore, to provide an exception for such cases in a law prohibiting abortion. Apart from cases such as tlw extra-uterine pregnancy and the cancerous uterus, there appears to be no medieal or psychiatric justification for terminating a pregnancy. 
Bernard Nathanson, M.D., who himself had been responsible for 30,000 abor­tions, said that after he stopped doing abortions, "we proposed a lengthy list of illnesses (induding but not limited to heart or kidney disease) which would justify abortion. We regard that list now with a growing sense of disbelief: if women with heart and liver transplants can be carried suecessfully through pregnaney, we can no longer conceive of any medical condition which would legitimize abortion. In short, we have slowly evolved to an unshakable posture of no exceptions .... [W]orkable, morally acceptable legislation proscribing abor­tion can have no exceptions written into it-not even medical ones." As Dr. llymie Gordon, the Mayo Clinic geneti­cist, put it, "A doctor who kills a preborn baby to save the mother should sur­render his license." 

Charles Rice 
E
ven if there were a case where it was necessary to save the life of the mother, abortion should not be allowed. If two people are on a one-man raft in the middle of the ocean, the law does not permit one to throw the other over­board even to save his own life. Oth­erwise, might would make right. In maternity cases, the duty of the doctor is to use his best efforts to save both his patients, the mother and her child. He should not be given a license to inten­tionally kill either of them. 
"Never and in no case," said Pope Pius XII in 1951, "has the Church taught that ~he life of the child must be preferred to that of the mother. It is erroneous to put the question with this alternative: either the life of the child or that of the mother. No, neither the life of the moth­er nor that of the child can be subjected to direct suppression. In the one case as in the other, there can be but one oblig­ation: to make every effort to save the lives of both, of the mother and the child." 
If an exception should not be made 
P
where the life of the mother is con­cerned, it should not be made for any lesser reason. To allow abortion to pre­vent injury to the mother's mental or physical health (where her life is not in danger) is to allow killing for what ulti­mately amounts to convenience. And to kill the unborn child because he may be defective is to do exactly what the Nazis did to the Jews whose lives they regard­ed as not worth living. olitically, the most appealing cases to allow abortion are for rape and incest. Rape is the broader category. Every act of intercourse by a minor, below the age of legal consent, is rape, whether forcible or statutory or both. The fact that the intercourse is incestu­ous does not change its character as rape. Pro-abortion literature mislead­ingly refers to "rapes or incest" as if they were totally separate categories. But the only case of pregnancy resulting from incestuous intercourse which would not fall within the broader cate­gory of rape would be that resulting from voluntary intercourse by an adult woman capable of consent. A victim of rape has the right to resist her attacker. But the unborn child is an innocent non­aggressor and should not be killed because of the crime of his father. Since the woman has the right to resist the rapist, she has the right to resist his sperm. Non-abortive measures can be taken, consistent with the law and Catholic teaching, promptly after the rape, which are not intended to abort and which may prevent conception. However. once the innocent third party is conceived, he should not be killed. In all cases of trouble pregnancy, the com­munity and, in some cases, the state. have the duty to solve the problems con­structively with personal and financial support through delivery and beyond. It is not enough merely to forbid the abor­tion without providing all necessary help. A license to kill, however, is never a constructive solution to a troubled 
• GARRY TRUDEAU IT~ TJ-t4T AN UNCOM­
IT~ NOTt/KE COVeR­
MONl-Y Hlt3H P&Ref.NrnG/3 
ING LUGAR.. He HAS 
TO 5PENI?.. A tor~ 
OF TH&M SUFFeR FROM/
TIME TRA::KJNG R:¥A.IN 

JOIN us/ 70TH& 13U­
9iAL.L-W& SAY-!3AO<­
PEAR. ... CHANAN 
!<£RJRT!7 ()V8UCHANAN5 
GROUNP PR0/3L.GM9. 

CAMPAIGN.. CAMPAIGN ;;rAFr•.. 
~ 
I
pregnancy. n abortion, wrote John Paul in Evangelium Vitae, "[t]he one eliminat­ed is a human being at the very begin­ning of life. No one more absolutely innocent could be imagined. In no way could this human being ever be consid­ered an aggressor, much less an unjust aggressor! ... The unborn child is totally entrusted to the protection and care of the woman carrying him or her in the womb ... [T]he decision to have an abor­tion is often tragic and painful for the mother. insofar as the decision to rid herself of the fruit of conception is not made for purely selfish reasons or out of convenience, but out of a desire to pro­tect certain important values such as her own health or a decent standard of living for the other members of the fami­ly. Sometimes it is feared that the child to be born would live in such conditions that it would be better if the birth did not take place. Nevertheless, these rea­sons and others like them, however seri­ous and tragic, can never justify the deliberate killing of an innocent human being" (No.58). 
The governing principle here is that "civil law...can never presume to legit­imize ... an offense against other persons caused by the disregard of so fundamen­tal a right as the right to life. The legal toleration of abortion or of euthanasia can in no way claim to be based on respect for the conscience of others. precisely because society has the right and the duty to protect itself against the abuses which can occur in the name of conscience and under the pretext of freedom. Consequently. a civil law authorizing abortion or euthanasia ceas­es by that very fact to be a true, morally binding civil law" (No 71-72). 
Prof Rice is on the Law School faculty. His column appears every other Monday. 
• QUOTE OF THE DAY 
''Assoon as I stepped out of my mother's womb on to dry land, I realized that I had made a mistake-that I shouldn't have come, but the trouble with children is that they are not returnable." 
-Quentin Crisp 
_

-.......-......·.·-·... -· ... ,• .---. ...• ._.. _.......................... . 

Movie Mo~dal' 

page 10 Monday, March 4, 1996 
• Ar THE MOViES WITH fATMAN AND OJ.U:HlY 
A most sensational, celebrational, inspirational, Muppetational Island Adventure 
"Muppet Treasure Island" humor. Follow them on their Rosie O'Donnell. Plus, the Directed by Brian Henson quest to accelerate the progress usual assemblage of cameo Starring Tim Curry, Kevin towards the inevitable climax of appearances by the clownish Bishop and the Muppets the dialectic. More than that, freaks that populate this world: take a little of the happiness namely, Animal, the Swedish**** that they give you with you out­Chef, Monk, Beaker, etc. This is 
(out of four) 
side the theater. In your own what the show is all about: 
Synopsis: You haZJe all read inimitable fashion, try to be a allowing your mind to harken the book. or seen the Disney litile more like the Muppets we back to those naive hours spent production. or browsed through so adore. drooling in front of the TV set, a comic book of Robert Louis watching the goofy little pup­Stevenson's 'Treasure Island." Fatman: pets wreak havoc. We pendants If you don't know the story, Those cheery Muppets that must tone down the pain that then you're just culturally provided us with such insipid we experience when confronted depriZJed. joy when we were five have with the nagging inconsisten­
made another trek to tqe big cies of the muppet zeitgeist. We 
screen. Cluttered with haunting must accept them not as mes­Daddy: images of malevolent pirates sengers from the crystal palace, With all the pure power of having their way with those but as sages of cute humor and 
Scorcese and all the petty per­furry creatures that we hold so obsequious duty. version of Polanski, the dearly in our souls, "Treasure The latest Muppet movie unavoidably lovable and syn­Island" delivers a story of truth offers a selection of fine gags thetically plush cast spawned and beauty, beauty and and quirky zaniness for even
their historic inception, could poignant emotion or their
by the late Jim Henson tri­truth...and you don't even have the most discriminating and
have envisioned no other cast incredible range. "Treasure
umphantly returns to the big to know that to enjoy this flick. pompous pseudo-intellectual.
to transfer his story to a medi­Island" validates my pet theory
screen in a veritable orgasm of The brilliant dialogue, the The Muppets are our friends. 
um that he could not possibly that puppets are, in fact, time­
aesthetic ebullience. The latest sharp camera work, the plot They don't judge us for our
have conceived of. less denizens of the theater,
selection in what any sentient that won't quit, and the techni­faults. They don't condemn us
Let me be the first to suggest and to remove them from this
being can only hope to be an cal work on the puppets really for our ideals. So free yourself
that, in the future, all classic lit­context, for however long,
infinite succession of puppet don't have much to do with this from the bonda-ge that you have 
erary tracts be brought to life would be more difficult than
pictures finds Kermit and film review. Rather, it is for the made for yourself-let the
by the Muppets, and the destroying the dual nature of a
Kompany taking to the high Muppet aficionados that I write chains fall from your wrists. Go
Muppets only! This particular binary star system. In essence,
seas in their numinous adapta­this manifesto: for the faith­see the cuddly contrivances of
troupe of thespians might be the Muppets are the literal yin
tion of Robert Louis Stevenson's ful...for the Henson elite. Jim Henson and laugh with
the only ones adept enough to to the universal, dramatic yang.
timeless classic. Upon an All the familiar faces pop up them. Become inebriated by
handle such a quixotic task, Daddy urges you, nay, he
admittedly cursory and entirely in this movie. You have Kermit their wit and charm and flee
and are certainly the very COMMANDS you, to make great
speculative look back at the sounding more and more like a this conspiracy for a while.
heroes and heroines who can haste and run to the next show­
best posturing of puppets since poor Neil Young impersonation. 
save us from fetid tripe like ing of the "Muppet Treasure 
our recent student government Miss Piggy, with her proclivity Fatman and Daddy are John
Demi Moore's "The Scarlet Island." Relax, shed your petty­
elections, Daddy is quite certain towards the friendly, flustered Zach and Scott Bozik. 
Letter." Only the most callous bourgeois pretensions, and
that the author, although prac­frog, demonstrates her oozing
or vindictive among us can fail immerse yourselves in their
tically a century removed from sexuality with the grace of
to be moved by their acutely subtle and non-threatening 
Julia gives Hyde,like performance in 'Mary Reilly' 
"Mary Heilly" a heart to match. She is Directed by Stephen Frears played deliciously by Starring Julia Roberts and John Matkovich Glenn Close, who gives a clinic on what you would lout ** of four) have hoped from 
Roberts. By MARK TORMA The story is built Accent Movie Critic around a rather mini­
malistic cast: a few more. 
T
here are times when a man has to be honest, servants in the house, an when polite niceties just do not cut it anymore. I English lord here, a have come to such a crossroad in life, and though drunken sot there, and I can hardly bear to say it, I will: I am afraid Julia there you go. Elaborate Hoberts may be gone the way of Don Johnson and plot is not the point; Cher. Infomercials await. instead, director Stephen 
Her latest vehicle, "Mary Reilly," is solid artistry with Frears plumbs the some solid effort on both sides of the camera, but with depths of the human id one glaring weakness: one "Pretty Woman" too many, and its frustrating and one convincing housemaid (named Mary Reilly) too repression. few. I will take my time, but there is no getting around More a psychodrama the facts: Julia Roberts was just not up to snuff, and it than anything, the film made her look really bad. takes us through the 
It is especially hard for me to say this, because this gamut of brutality travesty could have been averted. It has been a while brought on by the since I have seen such a bad fit between actress and release of human pas­role, and Miss Hoberts could almost be exonerated be­sion, represented most cause of it. cruelly by Malkovich as 
When I saw the casting directors' names on the cred­Hyde. It examines our its, I wanted to scream indignantly at them, "Why did motives for seeking you saddle our precious prostitute with such a starchy other selves, what we 
part ?" Then I remembered that Julia has a mind of could be if we somehow A past scarred by violence and pain has given Mary (Julia Roberts) a core of strength and 
her own; she chose this part, and now she has to wal­(chemically, perhaps?) endurance in the passionate drama, 'Mary Reilly.' low in it. Thus my critical capacities were restored; I loosed the chains of our existence. remainder of the movie. This is exactly what I recom­am now left to mull over the demise of Tinkerbell's The Freudian intrigue just does not stop, either. Just mend: that you put out of mind the fact that the title career. how badly did Mary's father abuse her as a child? character is played by someone who seems to have for­
But, you ask, how about the MOVIE, Mark? Oh, yeah, (Hyde suggests the worst.) Did some childhood trauma gotten that the U.S. and Britain went their separate I almost forgot, not bad, not bad at all. The story, you actually twist her into an irresistible longing for the ways two-hundred and twenty years ago. ask? Engaging; the household of Dr. Henry Jekyll takes monstrous Mr. Hyde? I prefer to think this is all non-If you succeed in doing so, you will be able to enjoy in a new housemaid (Roberts), who becomes mired in sense, but I will admit it did make me think twice. the fine storyline, deftly handled cinematography, and the tragic events surrounding the almost simultaneous It was a difficult experience, enjoying the torturous Matkovich's admirable depiction of the Briton gentle­appearance of the doctor's new assistant, one Mr. themes of Stevenson's story on film, yet suffering man (or is it men?). Hyde. We are at Notre Dame (and Saint Mary's) here, through an awkward turn by Roberts. She was out of "Mary Reilly" told well the story of Jekyll and Hyde, guys and gals -I'm not going to waste my time place in more ways than one: she wanted to look like a and left me wondering at the true nature of substance-· explaining the connection between those two charac­dishrag, but she still looked prom-queen pretty; though induced loss of inhibition (liberating freedom, or a ters. she tried, her Forty-Second Street twang was a poor journey into subhumanity). I have a feeling I know how 
John Malkovich plays the good/bad doctor, who substitute for an authentic Irish accent; and she this campus would answer that question, so I have develops a considerable fondness for the timid Miss seemed conspicuously out of the loop of the another: is Julia Roberts long for this cinematic world? Reilly. She, in turn, is amply concerned for him; she "Dangerous Liaisons" crowd (Frears, Close, and Ah, Grasshopper, the world is a very odd place. Better happens to be educated enough to see that he is dab­Matkovich were reunited for "Reilly"). to watch "Steel Magnolias" and reminisce. bling in dangerous waters. To wit, Julia Roberts is incredibly disturbing as the 
He experiments alone in a cavernous lab, and has main attraction, but a mere bump in the road if you do Mark Torma is a junior Anthropology major from odd dealings with Mrs. Farraday, a steely madam with not allow her performance to divert you from the Alliance. Ohio. liZJing in Saint Edward's Hall. 


Monday, March 4, 1996 page 11 

Saint Mary's senior Kimberly Baldige remains focused on her future musical career 
By PATTI CARSON Saint Mary's Editor 
S
itting on Kimberly Baldige's desk is a plaque with the motto by which she lives. "A thing that you sincerely believe in cannot be wrong." And Kimberly Baldige, a senior English Writing major at Saint Mary's, believes in her voice. 
"I started singing when I was about three years old," Baldige said. "I was in church with my grandparents and I just opened my mouth and I started to sing." And she kept singing. 
In high school she won district, regional, state and national competitions consecutively for three years. She toured Ireland and Austria with singing groups. Iter junior year in high school was devoted to her apprenticeship with the Pittsburgh Opera Company. 
And then she came from Pittsburgh to Saint Mary's. After participating in the Saint Mary's choir her freshman year. Baldige joined the Notre Dame Folk Choir her sophomore and junior years. And that is the opportunity that led her to make a big decision about her singing. 
Baldige sang regularly with the Folk Choir at the 11:45 masses at the Basilica. One particular weekend a woman from Texas happened to be at the mass and approached Baldige, who was the psalmist that day. 
"She told me that I had the most beautiful voice she had ever heard." 
Baldige was pleased with the compliment, but even more so a year later, when the woman unexpectedly called her and asked her if she was planning to pursue a career in music. 
And that is when the woman made Kimberly an offer that might be hard to refuse. 
"She told me about a family that owns a large fast food chain in the Los Angeles area. That same family happened to be in the entertainment business," Baldige said. 
"They offered to let me live with them in LA until I got settled. So I went to meet the family and everything was legitimate. The gentleman's friend happened to be in music and commercials. so he asked for a tape of my work and I sent it to him." 
"That's when he called me with an offer to sing back-up for Whitney Houston on an upcoming project," Baldige said. 
And for a while that sounded good to Baldige, but then she made a decision that she strongly believes in. 
"During the blizzard over Christmas break, I had the chance to watch a lot of VH1 and MTV since I couldn't leave the house." 
"And I rarely saw the backup singers. And so I don't necessarily want to work hard and make so many sacrifices if I'll be in the background where no one can see me," Baldige said. 
Baldige said that it was a tough decision to make, but she would always go to bed each night wondering "what if' she had tried it on her own. "If l succeed, that's wonderful. If not, I'll know that I tried on my own." 
And so she is. 
"I believe that everyone has one passion in their lives-one secret desire. For a lot of people it takes twenty or thirty years to find what they really want. I consider myself lucky to have found my passion so early," Baldige said. 
But music isn't the only thing about which Baldige is passionate. She expresses a constant need to "give back" to the community. This past summer she worked as a teacher in an innercity day camp of six and seven year olds. 
These children were the sons and daughters of drug addicts, prostitutes, convicted criminals, and the handicapped. 
"Almost anyone can write a check to help the cause," Baldige said. "But I wanted to be there, to teach the children to read, and to write, and to pray. I encouraged them to create dreams for themselves," she added. 
Baldige said that she has been lucky enough to have had people encouraging her to pursue her dreams. "Everyone deserves to have people like that in their lives," she said. 
Baldige has had to make numerous career decisions lately. She is meeting with Motown producers in Detroit over semester break and she is currently working on a demo tape for Time Warner and Columbia Records. Primarily the tape will be full of old romantic favorites from the big band era. 
"I pray every day that God will lead me on the 
'Iknow that I'm taking a big risk by pursuing a professional singing career, but I'm taking all of these decisions one day at a time.' 
right path. I know that I'm taking a big risk by pursuing a professional singing career, but I'm taking all of these decisions one day at a time." 
"And I believe that God has a plan for my life. One of the strongest motivations for me has been that with God, everything is possible." 
Notre Dame Folk Choir director Steven Warner said, "Early on it was evident to me that Kimberly was one of the more talented vocalists in an already talented group." 
"Kimberly is the first of our singers to move directly into professional singing. In a sense, she is blazing a new road," Warner said. "It is a big act of courage since this is such a competitive field where so much is given to chance," he said. But she is taking that chance in hopes of having signed a record contract in either New York or Los Angeles by graduation. 
Baldige also attributes her bravery to the Saint Mary's and Notre Dame community. Baldige said that she may not have turned down the offer to sing for Houston or made the same career decisions if she had gone to a school in a big city, where the world is "right at your fingertips." 
"I remember my choir director saying once that I have something he hasn't seen in fifteen years," Baldige said. "He said that when I sing, I'm so involved in my singing that I can feel it in my toes," Baldige said. 
"I feel like everyone has a gift, and this is mine. It's what I should do. And a thing that you sin­cerely believe in cannot be wrong." 
• SOAP OPERA UPDATES 
Days of Our Lives 
Well, Days fans, John is free. He successfully withstood the gas by using his memories of Kristen, Marlena, Belle. and Brady. Not to mention Jack and Jennifer found Tony's diary after the Lady"in-white dropped it. They showed the diary to Peter and Judge Walker, who were a little slow in responding, but thanks to Jack beating up one of the police guards. they opened the door to the gas. chamber and got John out just in time. 
Peter then realized he was wrong in proclaiming John's guilt over Tony's death. As far as John goes, he must have very large lungs because he has a pattern of holding his breath for a long amount of time and living to tell about it (remember the Houdini-like trick?). At the same time, Marlena was busy seducing Stefano. unaware that he knew she was just pretend­ing to be attracted to him. He told Marlena that John was dead, after an unsuccessful attempt to have the diary suppressed, but she did not believe him. She told Stefano that she would never have gone away with him, whether he had his memory or not. His temper flared, and as Marlena was phoning Abe, he put ether on a cloth and knocked her out. 
Stefano took Marlena through a secret passageway to a hide* out and made plans to take her to his "island paradise." The whole gang searched for Marlena and they came upon the Lady-in*white. She told John how MQ,rlena was pretemiirig to seduce Stefano, and then everyone assumed correctly that Stefano kidnapped her. After the "Curtain.. woman calmed down from going ballistic, John realized that she may hold the key to his past. 
Meanwhile, Celeste asked Stefano if she could go with him. while they were waiting for the DiMera helicopter. He refused her offer but then she told him he was Lexy's father. 
Lexy then appeared and pointed a gun at a stunned Stefan(). 
· who tried to make. a deal with her.Stefano eventu(}lly agreed to go back to the house with Lexy, but just then, the passageway 
· began to collapse. John, who had been shown the passageways by the Lady-in~white, said this and screamed Marlena's name. 
Back in Salem, Sami and Carrie both showed up at the gall). 
. in Kate's honor sporting bracelets willed to Austin and Lucas· respectively. Austin gave it to Sami just to hold it for will. ;:tnd Carrie was only wearing Lucas' bracelet for the night. .· .· .·.· .. · 
Sami dolled herself up for Austin, but it did not change the fact that he longs for Carrie. Later. Sami and Austin shar.ed a dance, and Carrie pathetically Jet Lucas kiss her after see~g this disgusting sight. Of course, Austin just happened to w-alk. . by and catch their kiss. Vietor and Vivian are close to having sex, but at the same time on a remote island, Kate escaped and enlisted the help ofa seaplane pilot to fly her back to Salem. 
Just a little tidbit: there is a rumor going around that the ex-· Bo and Billy are b()th addicted to cocaine. Let us hope for both of their livelihoods that this is not true. 
-Erin Kelsey and Christina Ftistar . 
General Hospital 
This week brought anxious viewers a resolution in the whole Damien-Katherine scandal. At the spa, Mac and Kevin break out of the sauna, and participate in a James Bond-esque chase with Damien's Amazon bodyguards. 
This chase ends when Mac punches one of them and Kevin hits the other over the head with a paddle. As they are about to make their escape and rush off to save Lucy, a ninja expert throws a knife at them. L:uckily. Mac had a gun in his pocket. Kevin was a little mad he did not chose to use it earlier. · 
Meanwhile, Damien is in Lucy's room threatening her life. Alas, before Damien can call his honchos into harm Ms. Coe, Luke breaks through the window and holds Damien at gun point. They tie him up, knock him out, and the fearless four* some drag him back to Port Charles. 
Garcia tries to get Damie·n for trying to frame Katherine. Damien claims he was kidnapped by Mac. There· is not suffi-: cient proof ofeither, thus he is let free. He confronts Katherin~ in the-Outback later-on; she tells him to go to hell. . ....•·.• 
Meanwhile, her lawyer, Justice, is having problems. A&ide from his separation from Simone, twenty percent of his con.,., stituents signed a petition to oust him from office. He is em... · barking on an all-out campaign to fiX things, using everyone's ·· help. All the Q's are dedicating their time and energy, as w~ll as Luke, Laura and everyone at the Foundation. ··· 

Simone and Felicia talk about Justus; Felicia feels Simone is using Tommy as an excuse for her ambivalence about mar• . riage. She draws aparallel to her situation with Mac years ago, Bobbie is experiencing major maternal instincts. She misses BJ a lot and cries after Maxie and her talk about BJ. In the he>S· 
. pital. Bobbie befricmds a young mother wavering on her deci· sion to give her child up for adoption. Bobbie helps her .see what is best for the child and personally delivers the baby to• the adoptive parents. She has a strange dream that disturbs her greatly, about a white light and the word "Time... Could there be another child coming to the Jones clan? Jason, meanwhile. is still throwing tantrums and knocking over tables. Emily helps him see that maybe the Quartermaines do not treat him as kind as they would a stranger because he does not look like astranger. They connect when Emily tell$ Jasonshe just wanted to make sure he was not lonely. Jax is still flaunting his moriey around Port Chuck. On Bren~ · da's request to fly her to lreland for oysters, Jax instead calls a friend over in the land of leprechauns and orders five dozen • oysters to be delivered. Brenda. Lois. and Ned enjoy their meal; Sonny and Lily also get a plate of these oysters. Later, Jax attempts to talk to Brenda about Sonny, but she wilJ not say a word. He confesses he was in a relationship once and his heart was broken. Later on, the two go out to dinner with Lois and Ned, all the while the two men fighting about Jax's true intentions. 
-Jennifer Rubow 

~-------------------­
Monday, March 4, 1996 The Observer • SPORTS page 12 
• Cou.EGE BAsKETBALL 
Mcinnis, Williams spark Tar Heels' win over Blue Devils 
By TOM FOREMAN Jr. 
Associated Press 
DURHAM, N.C. 

Dean Smith was ready for a victory, and the timing of his latest one couldn't have been much better for No. 19 North Carolina. 
Jeff Mcinnis and Shammond Williams ran a two-man attack that repelled a Duke rally and gave the Tar Heels an 84-78 victory on Sunday. It helped the Tar Heels avoid another three-game los­ing streak and lifted the spirits of a team coming off a 24-point loss at Wake Forest. 
"After the way we've been losing, any win would be a great win," said Smith, who got career coaching victory No. 850, leaving him 26 shy of the career mark held by Kentucky's Adolph Rupp. "But certainly, over a Duke team in Durham should be special and I think our players feel like it is, particularly based on how these last few weeks had transpired." 
What was turning into a surprising victory for the Tar Her,ls (20-9, 10-6 Atlantic Coast Conference) became another bizarre chapter in the series be­tween the two rivals separated by eight miles. 
Duke coach Mike Krzyzewski pulled his starters with less than a minute to go and the Tar Heels in control 80-6 7. The reserves, whose primary mission was to foul and send North Carolina to tlre free­throw line, staged their own rally, draw­ing Duke to 81-76 after Baker Perry made a 3-pointer with 21 seconds to go. 
In the midst of that run, Mcinnis was fouled by Jay Heaps, a freshman walk­on who played on Duke's soccer team. Mcinnis complained about the intention­al foul a little too long, and he was whis­tled for his second technical foul with 26 seconds left, which led to his dis­qualification. 
"I haven't had any this year," Smith said, referring to the technical fouls. "Now, I've got to start getting them and stop the team from getting them. I can play and Jeff can coach." 
Mcinnis felt the technical fouls were undeserved. He also felt the Blue Devils were a little bit rough in their late-game fouling. 
"I would say they were fouling us hard in areas that are not basketball," Mcinnis said. "When he (Heaps) pushed me off the court, I just got mad about that. I didn't say nothing to Heaps. I 
didn't say nothing to the refs. I just told 
the team let's get fired up and let's get 
out of here. Next thing I knew, I was 
being ejected." 
The tempers which always seem to 
flare in the series were up once again, 
but there wasn't enough time for Duke 
to turn its anger into points. 
To make matters worse for the Blue 
Devils (18-11, 8-8 ACC), Chris Collins 
sustained an apparent right foot injury 
midway through the second half. With 
ice wrapped around his foot, he limped 
off the Cameron Indoor Stadium court 
and to the locker room to a standing 
ovation. Krzyzewski said for now, he is 
questionable for the ACC tournament, 
which starts Thursday. 
"We feel we're an NCAA team, I hope 
he'd be ready for that," Krzyzewski 
said. "I hope he's ready for the ACC 
tournament, but we've got to be really 
careful about big-picture stuff. He's re­
ally carried us these last few weeks." 
Mcinnis got 20 of his 25 points in the 
second half. Seven of them came in suc­
cession as the Blue Devils were mount­
ing a charge. 
Williams scored 19 of his 26 points in 
•the closing 20 minutes. He sank 10 points in a row, helping rescue the Tar 
Heels from a 57-54 contest and taking them to a 65-54 lead with 3:19 to go. 
Serge Zwikker got 12 points and Antawn Jamison 11 for the Tar Heels. Jeff Capel led Duke with 20 points and Collins got 18 before he left. 
Smith clinched his 26th consecutive 20-win season, the 28th in his 35-year career. 
The Blue Devils gave Zwikker the short baseline jumper in the first half, and he burned them for 12 points. 
It didn't help Duke's case that its offense struggled for virtually all 20 minutes. 
Duke missed its first six shots and took five minutes to get its first basket, a jumper in the paint by Ricky Price. 
Free throws were just as hard to come by, as the Blue Devils went 5-for-12 from the line. It added up to the team's worst half this season on 7 -for-27 shoot­ing. 
Capel's 15-footer at 10:31 tied the score at 13, but an eight-point run by the Tar Heels put them back in com­mand. 
A 9-0 spurt to end the half-Mcinnis hit a 3-pointer with two seconds left ­led North Carolina to its biggest lead at 32-21. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. 
Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
Classifieds 
NOTICES Here's the list of participants in NAZZ 1996!! Tweak Hace Frio Los Catatonics Emily Lord Reverend Funk Stemper Bob and the 4x4's Cod in Salsa Luster George and the Freaks Sabor Latino Tacklebox emiLy I need a ride for Spring Break to the New York City I Southern New York area. Will help drive and pay for gas. Please call Dan at 4-0654. ILOST & FOUND I LOST -at Cavanaugh/St.Ed's Formal: long navy blue wool woman's coat and men's navy blaz­er both at Alumni/Senior Bar on Friday night. Please call x-1407 Please Help! I lost my long black coat at Senior Bar on 2/23. Please call if you know where it is. Thanks. Laura x1553 FOUND I accidently picked up the wrong jacket from Bridgets's. If you lost a Columbia jacket there, call Eddie at x4010. LOST I lost a green fleece Eddie Bauer pullover at Bridget's. If you found it please call Eddie at x4010 LOST SAPPHIRE EARRING­dark blue stone. Great Sentimental Value!!! If found please call Amy at 4-4836 WANTED I '-S-UM_M_E_R-JO_B_S______, ALL LAND/WATER SPORTS PRESTIGE CHILDERN'S CAMP· ADIRONDACK MOUNTAINS NEAR LAKE PLACID 1-800· 786·8373 CRUISE SHIPS NOW HIRING· Earn up to $2.000+/month working on Cruise Ships or Land-Tour com­panies. World travel. Seasonal & full-time employment available. No experience necessary. For more information call 1·206-971·3550 ext.C55843 BIG EAST TICKETS WANTED TOP$$$ PAID (800)269·5849  NATIONAL PARKS HIRING­Positions are now available at National Parks, Forests & Wildlife Preserves. Excellent benefits + bonuses! Call: 1-206-971-3620 ext.N55845 SUMMER WORK!! Landscaping Spend your summer landscaping with Fath Management Company, one of the largest property manage­ment firms in Greater Cincinnati. Full-time positions available. Hours are M-F 8-4:30. No experience nec­essary. Dependability and reliable transportaion reqwred. Interested candidates should apply at Aspen Village Apartments, 2703 Erlene Drive, or call 662-3724 for an appointment. Pre-employment Drug Screen Required. Fath Management Company E.O.E $ Cruise Ships Hiring! Students Needed! $$$+Free Travel (Caribbean, Europe, Hawaii!) Seasonal/Permanent, No Exper. Necessary. GDE. 919-929-4398 ext C1114 Call (219)282-3518. Free information. Earn money from your dormitory room! ALASKA EMPLOYMENT-Students Needed! Fishing Industry. Earn up to $3,000·$6,000+ per month. Room and Board! Transportation! Male or Female. No experience necessary. Call (206)971-3510 extA55844 ALUM WANTS TO BUY OR TRADE ND FOOTBALL MEMORABILIA ­(TIC STUBS/PROGRAMS, ETC.) 2773097 Responsible babysitter needed for 2 and 6-year-old. Any major block of time 9:30-5:00 M-F. Great loca­tion 10 miles south of ND. Call 299-0051. ~ FOR RENTL IRISH CO. B&B REGISTRY Stay at the "MOOSE KRAUSE HOUSE" or other approved homes. Grad. · Football games 219·277·7003 ROOMS FOR RENT IN PRIVATE HOME. VERY CLOSE TO ND. IDEAL FOR SMC-ND EVENTS. 272-6194. BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY 219-291-7153 HOMES FOR RENT 232·2595  THE POTATO HOUSE 8 BED­ROOM FOR NEXT SCHOOL YEAR ALSO 3-4 BEDROOM HOMES CLOSE TO ND GOOD AREA 2773097 FOR SALE H P 48G sci calc w/ cham app card x3692 For sale: Mac LC computer with color monitor, stylewriter printer, Hayes modem. Like new. $500.00 OBO. Call Dave at 233-2588 JUDAY CREEK gem. Well-maintained, 4-bedroom ranch with a 17 x 25 home office & 3-car garage. 5 minutes to ND. REDUCED TO $149,500 Call Karen 272·3653. Waterfront Condos 1 Bedrooms from $52,000 2 Bedrooms from $80,000 New Decor EVERYTHING included Close to Notre Dame BEAUTIFUL! NORTH SHORE CLUB 232-2002 TICKETS WANTED: BIG EAST&FINAL FOUR TICKETS. WILL PAY$$$. CALL DAYS (800)444-8425. EVE (908)536·3431 PERSONAL 05/17 03/19 0o0c0c0o0o0o0o0o0o0c0 QUALITY COPIES, QUICKL VI! I THE COPY SHOP LaFortune Student Center Phone 631-COPY 0c0c0o0o0o0o0o0o0o0o0 DANCERSDANCERSDANCERS COME AND JOIN US TONIGHT IN THE CSC BEGINNER CLASS 6:30 2-STEP ADVANCED 8:00 TANGO DANCERSDANCERSDANCERS Going to Pittsburgh area over break? I have space for 2. Call x1777. Driving down at least as far as Austin-San Antonio? Desperately seeking .ride to SA for Spring Break! Willing to$, drive. Call me, Paulina, 4-2985. ATIENTION!! IF ANYONE KNOWS OF SOME­ONE WHO TAPED THE BILLY JOEL LECTURE ON Jan30. PLEASE CALL x4122. WILL PAY BIG BUCKS$$$  Today is the greatest day I've ever known. Bye all. It's been fun. Good luck, Joey. 307, you've got me back. Now I've just got to find something to do with myself. Hello Baywatch, here I come. Enthralling Conversation Guaranteed in exchange for ride to Harrisburg, PA or nearby on Friday March 8 after 1 :05 pm. Will pay share of tolls, gas, etc. Please call Erin ASAP x3777 RIDE DESIRED: FROM Southern NY or Northern NJ back to Campus on March 17th. Will pay share and keep driver entertained for hours! Brian x1173 Lisa the archie who lives on Bulla Road is a babe! Grrrrr! Calif. actress-writer wife & photog­rapher husband wish to adopt new­born. Will provide love, nurturing environ., educ., financial security. Hollywood Hills home has large back yard and loving dog. Call 818/241 -5535 collect. Legal & Confidential. SAW SAW SAW SAW SAW Ok I finally am getting around to it. Please campus mail me all your personal thoughts-Ok anything you want to put in a SAW scrapbook-It might take me a while but I'm putting one together. Send Now! 233 Sieg-Ellen Do you have a ride home for SPRING BREAK yet? Place a classified ad in The Observer!!! It's inexpensive and effective! Attention ••Class of 1998­Help us be your voice ... Applications for the 1996·97 Junior Class Council are available for pick-up in the Student Government Office (2nd floor LaFortune). Applications due: 3-20-96 GRIFFIN • FREEDY NOLAN • STRONSKY "The Voice of 98" CARRIE ELIZABETH RATKE TURNS 21 ON WEDNESDAY!! LOOKOUT! DO YOU LIKE TO WRITE? Join the Saint Mary's Observer staff. We want you. Call Caroline Blum 631-4540 or 284·4349.  $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ NEED MONEY FOR SPRING BREAK? Morrissey Student Loan Fund Dooley Rm(Across from info desk) M-F 11 :30am • 12:30pm one day waiting period 30 day loan @ 1% interest LAST DAY FOR SENIORS IS FRIDAY, MARCH 8, 1996 $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ Hey Mary, you should really try the strawberry milkshake. It's just that good. Goodbye Stranger It's been nice Hope you find your paradise Try to see your point of view Hope your dreams will all come true. How's the freedom going. guys? We miss you up here-EVERY NIGHT! Carolina/Duke is the best rivalry in sports. And the Tarheels are back. Yeah ACC tournament. Bring it G Tech and Wake and whatever other pretenders are out there. Calabria has his scissors ready for the nets in Greensboro. Dante really didn't feel like scoring yesterday and the Heels still handled the Dookies in front of the Cameron Crazies. Michaelangelo is tough to beat. Shammond is stepping it up. Kentucky, UMass ·watch out baby, here come the Heels. "Iverson is a tough monkey."-Billy Packer. Tyler, when's the 1OK? Who needs medicine balls. We'll just go out and toss the keg around a little. Less than a month. Vol. We're playing for money this year. Get practicing. Maybe J Will will come back to charm the crowd. Together we could break this trap We'll run till we drop, baby we'll never go back Will you walk with me out on the wire 'Cause baby I'm JUSt a scared and lonely rider Keeping the tradition alive.... but don't get used to it. You know how I feel about BS. Dave Bradley won a $1000 worth of merchandise.  Greg Bieg is the greatest guy on the face of the earth. Women swoon in his presence. Yeah Joey. Go to town baby! Rata--Saturday, in the ponk, I think it was the fourth of March ... People dancing. people fighting, a mad skirmish with Ron. Are you driving to O'Hare this Friday? Please give us a ride. Our flight leaves at 2:30. Call Susan at 284-5060 for details. Greg, call that number anyway. Davey-­Thanks for Saturday night. You are the best. ·-Lisa Todd, how was it with the in-laws in Indianapolis? Hope you're happy with your brother-in-law's perlor­mance in the rink. --------------­Stacey·­How's the dude with the holey underwear? Have you talked to him lately? Lisa J.C.-­You're the greatest piece of work in the state of VA. Rafael Gonzalez makes some killer lasagna. Call him at 273-3115 for details. Tyler--Warm mayonaise, greasy porkchops in a smoky ashtray. 'Did Dave really win all that stuff Saturday night? Or did he just per­form a massive heist?' ..usa The price is wrong, B----­Jen, when are you going to call the guy who looks like Andy Garcia, Rafael Gonzalez? His number is 273-3115 Krista and Ted sittin' in a tree ... Ahhh Yeah Dave Murphy is a cassanova, swinging stud. Oh, Billy when are you gonna find whatever it is you're looking for? Here's a nice piece of ... KK-­Beer pouring is pretty, Beer pouring is good, Seems that all you ever wanted Was to start an insurrection. Corn, I love it corn, it makes my toenails tingle. Penny, Penny, Penny--say hello to Kevin Garnett for me. Tell him Lil' Penny from science class says hello. 'When you see Lisa, tell her I'm sorry.' --Kristi  
..  ,  •  •  •  ...  •.  ~  ..... ~  .­ -·  fl  I"':;'  I" I* 91  T  .. r  II  II"  'I' f''  •.  •·  ·  ,.  -­ ·•  .,II  rt  t  -·•.rf ,, '' •t _. •.• '"" •• '' •t •C.·Y ·t •'t  ..• ·t  "  '  r  '  lo  )· •  ,. 1  '  '  •  '' i  • \­ •  •  '  t  - 

The Observer • SPORTS page 13 
•NBA • HOCKEY 
Rockets knock off Irish blow big lead in season finale 
By MIKE DAY Notre Dame extended their lead to 2-0 as
Lakers in posSible 
Sports Writer senior forward Jamie Morshead made his final collegiate game memorable with his eighth goal It was a fitting end to a frustrating season. of the season. When Lorenz added his second After four long and tiring months of disappoint­goal of the evening just 3:28 into the second peri­
playoff preview 
ment, humiliation, and heartache, the Notre od, it appeared to the casual observer that the 
By KEN PETERS 
Associated Press 
INGLEWOOD, Calif. 
Both the two-time defending NBA champion Houston Hockets and the Los Angeles Lakers considered Sunday's game a possible playoff pre­view. 
llakeem Olajuwon and the Hockets downed Magic Johnson and the Lakers 111-107 to win their fifth straight and snap a four-game losing streak at the Forum dating back to 1993. 
"It was definitely a big win for us," said Olajuwon, who had 29 points. 13 rebounds, six assists and three blocked shots. 
Houston coach Rudy Tomjanovich said he empha­sized the importance of the game to his players before they took the no or. 
"We talked about having a playoff mentality because this game meant a lot to the playoff picture, with the fourth seed as a payoff," Tomjanovich said of the win that clinched the sea­son series against the Lakers 3­
1. 
Johnson had 14 points, five assists and seven rebounds. He played 26 minutes in his second game back after a strained right calf sidelined him for four games. 
"I don't think either of us wants to play tlw other in the playoffs." Johnson said of the Hockets. "It would be a drag­out. sock-it-out series. They are the two-time defending cham­pions for a reason." 
Johnson also said that he was going to take himself out of the running for one of the final two spots on the U.S. Olympic team, because he wanted to spend time with his family this sum­mer. and because he didn't want to create a controversy over who was picked for the team. 
Kenny Smith came off the bench to nail 6-of-7 from 3­point range and score 21 points as the Rockets snapped a three-game winning streak by the Lakers. Sam Cassell added 24 points as Los Angeles lost for just the third time since Johnson came out of retirement on Jan. 29. 
"I think Kenny Smith came in and gave us a great boost," Tomjanovich said. "Sam Cassell, not 100 percent because of his elbow, was phe­nomenal." 
Cassell said after the game that he may have arthroscopic surgery on his inflamed right elbow soon so he can be ready for the playoffs. 
The Rockets were without Clyde Drexler, who had arthro­scopic surgery on his right knee on Monday and will be out for up to six weeks; Mario Elie, with a fractured right arm; and Charles Jones, with back spasms. 
The Rockets led almost all the way and, when the Lakers did move ahead 69-68 in the third quarter, Olajuwon helped Houston quickly rebuild the lead. 
Los Angeles threatened again late in the game. when Johnson's two free throws pulled Los Angeles within 99­
95. But 3-pointers by Cassell and Smith helped keep the Lakers at bay. 

The 
Marathon 
is over! 
Happy 21st Birthday Michelle% 
Classes begin tonight! 
great scores••• 

+7.2 points* ---------, 
Call: 1-999-555-1212 get a higher score 
Kaplan helps you focus your LSAT studies and build your confidence so you can get a higher score. 
last chance to prepare for the April test 
Last class begins on: 
Sunday, March 10@ 1 pm 
KAPLAN 
• As documented In lhe May 1994 Kaplan LSA T Peffonnance SIUdy conducted by Price WaterhOuse. 

Dame hockey season finally came to an appropri­ate end Saturday night, as ferris State finished off the Irish 6-3 before a sellout crowd of 2,667 at the Joyce Center. 
If one had been out of the country for the past four months and had the opportunity to miss see­ing Notre Dame play this year, they could have received a· brief synopsis of the season in the shape of Saturday's loss to the Bulldogs. 
Indeed, the storyline was the same. The 9-23­4 Irish delivered another strong performance in the early going, giving Notre Dame fans the feel­ing that they would pull off the impossible and reach double digit victories for the year. However, as has been the case all season, things fell apart right before their eyes just moments later, and when all was said and done, a 3-0 advantage turned into a 6-3 loss. 
"We've had the pattern all season where we play well for one spurt and just completely fall apart the next moment," said senior defenseman Garry Gruber. "It's frustrating that we couldn't maintain any kind of consistency this year. and I think our record reflects that." 
At the outset, the Irish looked relaxed and excited to play before the sixth sellout crowd of the season. Junior center Terry Lorenz broke a scorelss tie with 11:11 to play in the first period when he beat FSU goaltender Jeff Blashill one­on-one for the easy score. 
Irish were on their way to a landslide victory. 
However. those who have seen the Irish at all this year knew that Notre Dame would find a way to make it interesting. And sure enough, in the blink of an eye, the 3-0 advantage was gone. Bulldog defenseman Andy Roach recorded a hat trick to help spark an FSU run of six unanswered goals. 
"We played really well at the beginning, and then we had some costly breakdowns that just seemed to snowball," said Irish head coach Dave Poulin. "It's disappointing that we had problems playing with a lead. That's the time you're sup­posed to play your best, and we weren't able to do that." 
While FSU didn't appear to have any more tal­ent than the Irish on paper, they were able to come up with the critical plays when they needed them. and that's why they will be team compet­ing in the conference playoffs over spring break. 
"We know that we are every bit as talented as they are," said junior right wing Tim Harberts. "We played well early. but once again, we were unable to maintain the level of play throughout the game. It is the kind of pattern that we have fallen into way too many times over the course of the year." 
It was the pattern that told the story of the sea­son. Irish fans are thanking their lucky stars that this story has finally come to an end. 

. . . The Observer/Brian Hardy lnsh semors Jam1e Morshead (left), Davide Dal Grande (middle) and Wade Salzman (right) watched their team blow a 3-0 first period lead to Ferris State to end their hockey careers. 
We're Now Accepting Applications for 
WVfV Assistant Station Manager 
The Assistant Station Manager works closely with the Station Manager in overseeing the daily operation of the station Responsibilities Include: 
• 
Performing \!'NFI administrative duties 

• 
Evaluating and enhancing each department 


• Conducting all station functions in absence of Station Manager. We're looking for a person with organizational experience and good personal communications skills Assistant Station. Manager is a Paid Position at WVFI Applications available at LaFortune or Haggar College Ctr Info desks 
Applications due March 8th by 3.00 pm in the Student Activities Office, 315 LaFortune 
WVFI does not discriminate against applicants with no previous WVFI general broadcasting or music experience 


The Observer/Dave Murphy 
Above, left: Troy Phillips blocks a Cory Spence jab during the 200-pound final. 
Above, right: John Kmetz (left) gets tied up with Rick Rogers during 155-pound action. 
Below: Dan Zepf (left) ducks under a mean right hook from Frank Diorio in the 125-pound final. 
~--------­
\ 1 
) page 14
~ ~ 
\ . 
\ ' 
\ 
~ 
~ 
~ 
1 
i 
' 
i 
~ 
\ 
i \ 
~ 
The Observer· SPORTS 


Bouts 
continued from page20 
the veterans, including Mike Farrell (175), Frank Diorio {125), Rick Hogers (155) and Toby Biolchini (135). 
Biolchini's victory was made even sweeter when his brother, Doug, a former two-time presi­dent and Bengal Bouts cham­pion, flew in from Los Angeles to be his corner man. 
"He surprised me," the cur­rent Bengal Bouts President said. "It was a huge boost to have him in my corner." 
While Biolchini boxed a near­flawless bout against Matthew Bardol, it was the 130-pound fight directly preceding it that brought the loudest acclaim from the crowd. 
Two freshmen, Mike McCurdy and Tommy Will, received a standing ovation for their efforts during the evening's sec­ond fight. Though it was early, it was by far the best fight, with Will taking it on a unanimous decision. 
Unanimous decisions, howev-
ATTENTION JUNIORS 
INTERESTED IN THE RHODES AND MARSHALL SCHOLARSHIP 
Professor Walter F. Pratt~ will have a meeting to infornt you of deadline dates and the Fall application process on 
Tuesday, Marc·h 5, 1996 6:00PM 101 Law School 
If you at·e unable to attt~ntl this 1nceting, a shet~t of infot'niation 1nay he obtained in 102-B O'Shaughnessy llall after the nu~cting datt:.. 
er, were definitely not the norm, as they fell short to the split decisions seven to six. Only Mantey's victory over Ken Oliphant at 190 was stopped early. 
"That goes back to what we've been saying about the evenness of the card," Farrell said. 
"There were really no domi­nant fighters except for John Christoforetti." 
Senior Tim Regan was awarded the heavyweight title after a walkover in the finals. His opponent, Shannon Donovan, was unable to fight because of a hairline fracture in his nose. 
But after a night of unexpect­ed occurrences, the lack of a heavyweight bout really wasn't too surprising. 

Monday, March 4, 1996 

125 Pounds 
Frank Diorio-Unan. Dec.-Dan Zepf 130 Pounds Tommy Wiii-Unan. Dec-Michael McCurdy 135 Pounds Toby Biolchini-Unan. Dec.-Matthew Bardol 140 Pounds Doug Pollina-Unan. Dec.-Ted Pagano 145 Pounds Fred Kelly-Split Dec.-Andrew Dicello 150 Pounds Butch Cabreros-Split Dec.-Tom Kelly 155 Pounds Rick Rogers-Split Dec.-John Kmetz 160 Pounds Chris Sikora-Split Dec.-Chip Farrell 165 Pounds John Christoforetti-Unan. Dec.-Seth Roy 170 Pounds Patrick Maciariello-Split Dec.-Bob Lalor 175 Pounds Michael Farrell-Split Dec.-Matthew Dowd 185 Pounds Brian Gaffney-Split Dec.-Dan Cunningham 190 Pounds Mike Mantey-RSC R2-Ken Oliphant 200 Pounds Troy Phillips-Unan. Dec.-Cory Spence Heavyweight Tim Regan-Walkover-Shannon Donovan 

THE JOAN B. KROK
Events INSTITUTE FOR INTERNATIONAL 
PEACE STUDIES 
Lecture 

SCOTT R. APPLEBY 
'~ Associate Professor, Department of History, 
Director of the Cushwa Center 
for the Study of American Catholicism, 
University of Notre Dame 

"RELIGIOUS VIOLENCE AND RELIGIOUS PEACEMAKING AFTER THE COLD WAR: PATTERNS AND POSSIBILITIES" 
Tuesday, March 5, 1996 4:45pm Hesburgh Center Auditorium 
University of Notre Dame 

Everyone Welcome 
UNIVERSITY Of NOTRE DAME 1'.0. BOX 63'> NOTR.f DAME. INDIANA ~6556-063'> USA 
Telephone: (21C))6jJ-6C)70 
111111111 

GO FAR IN THE AIR FORCE. 

~G Learn 11ow far the Air Force Can take
V 

you. If you're a college graduate, you rnc=ty qualify for Air Force Officer Training 
Scl1uol. After con1plcting Officer Training 
set 1ool, yuu can uecornc a cornrnissioncd :'\.ir r-orce 
officer wit I1: 

•great 
starting pay 

•medical 
c.u1d dental care 

•30 
days vacation with pc=ty per year 


•n1anagernent OPl >ortunities Go far in a cnrecr as an Air Force officer. Call: AIR FORCE OPPORTUNITIES 
TOLL FREE 1-800-423-USAF 

Monday, March 4, 1996 
The Observer • SPORTS 

The Observer/Dave Murphy Tommy "Go Ahead and Sign Your" Will is all smiles after his 130­pound bout with fellow freshman Michael McCurdy. Will won on a unanimous decision. 
ATTENTION JUNIORS! 
Ticket sales for the Class Cruise on April 20th have been postponed. Looli for more information in the next couple of weeks. 
Any questions call1-5117. 
MARDI SOIR CHEZ MARITAJN 
lA .series of TuesdAy evening lectures on C4.tholk thought 
on tlReconcilin9 Old Lovers: John PAul JJ on Science And faJthn 
TucsdA!J, Mbrch 5, 7:30 p.m. 
MAritAin C-enter, 114 Hcsburgh Ubr·Ary 
Butch Cabreros exults after hearing he is the 150-pound champion over Tom Kelly. 
Frosh 
continued from page 20 

"He had a good reach on me, and he had a great jab," com­mented Will after the fight. "He just kept keeping me away with that jab, and I was trying to block it, get in, throw a good combination of four or five punches, and get out. It took me awhile to get in, because he's a good boxer and I had to wear him down a bit." 
Will's perseverance appeared to begin to pay off towards the end of the second round, when he was able to begin to worm his way inside McCurdy's dan­gerous jab and land a quick flurry of body shots. But it was in the third round that Will really exploded out of the gates, finally wearing down a visibly exhausted McCurdy and nearly knocking him out in the process. 
The nearly imperceptible 

edge which either fighter may have had at the end of the first two rounds blossomed into a clear advantage for Will shortly into the third, when the diminutive yet determined Will launched a devastating attack, burrowing inside of McCurdy's outside punches and driving him into the ropes. McCurdy appeared to be fighting just to remain upright in the final minute, bleeding freely and clearly dazed at this sudden turn of events. When the final ball rang, it was clear that Will had taken this one. 
"In the third round, I just tried to pour it on, get in there," said Will. "I feel that the third round is what really got it for me." 
McCurdy knew that the third round was key as well, with the only difference being that his strategy didn't quite work out. 
"I talked to my cornerman, and he was telling me to be more aggressive in the third, score some points -so I tried to do that," commented McCurdy. "I guess I was maybe a little too aggressive. I thought I was in shape, but three two minute rounds is a lot more than you think." 
The pressure will surely be on Will now, as his status as a freshman champion opens the gates for a run at a four year stranglehold on the title, a feat seldom accomplished in the Bouts' storied history. 
"I'm just gonna take it one step at a time," commented Will on his future as a fighter. "I don't want to think about it as a four year thing now. I just want to think of winning next year. Maybe before I know it I'll be able to say, 'Whoa, I got four."' 
McCurdy, whose dreams of a four year reign had been dashed by Will's late surge, had other plans for his future fol­lowing the fight. 
''I'm looking forward to a lit­tle nap now," laughed McCurdy. 

52850 U.S. 31 Business 18157 State Rd. 23 6305 University Commons 
277-2121 273-1202 271-1166 

page 16 The Observer • SPORTS Monday, March 4, 1996 
MEN'S BASKETBALl 
There's good news and bad news ... 
Irish hold their own against 
Orangemen in the Carrier 
Dome, fall in final minute 
ByTIM SEYMOUR all-America candidate, in check Associate Spans Ediror for the first half. but the senior returned to score 13 of his 15 
There are two lenses .through after the break. which to view Notre Dame's The Orangemen enjoyed bal­71-67 loss to Syracuse at the anced scoring, as all five Carrier Dome on Saturday. starters finished in double-fig­
The first perspective concen­ures, led by point guard trates on Notre Dame's blown Lazarus Sims' 16. 12-point lead and a dismal Hoover finished as the game's stretch over the final five min­leading scorer with 24, and utes that saw the Irish score freshman Gary Bell added 10 one point in handing the game for the Irish. to the Orangemen. Notre Dame meets Syracuse 
The second emphasizes the again on Wednesday at 1 p.m. positive, focusing on how Notre in Madison Square Garden. Dame's performance in the Who knows how that one will The Observer/Kevin Klau 
Dome was a complete turn­work out. But you can bet that Matt Gotsch (above) poured in 15 points and collected seven rebounds off the bench in Notre Dame's 71-67 around from last week's de­bacle against Miami, and how 
the Irish gave the No. 15 team 
in the country all it could han­
dle on its home court. 
Whether your optical instru­ment of choice be a microscope or rose-colored glasses, how­ever. it is undeniable that Wednesday's rematch in the preliminaries of the Big East tournament now has a number of subplots. 


Chief among them is whether the Irish (9-17, 4-14) have learned to deliver the knockout punch after squandering yet another lead in the closing sec­onds. 
"We deserved to win this one, and we had many opportunities to do so at the end," said Notre Dame coach John MacLeod. "We had times when we burned their double-teams and then missed layups." 
After racing to a 39-30 half­time lead behind a barrage of Ryan Hoover three-pointers, the Irish withstood Syracuse's comeback to pull ahead 66-60 with 5:31 left. 
The remainder of the game was an offensive disaster for the Irish, as missed free throws and turnovers eventually allowed the cold-shooting Orangemen to climb back into the game. 
Notre Dame was 6-of-17 from the gift line in the second half, and missed 3-of-4 in the final minute. 
"You have to be able to make these free throws," lamented MacLeod. 
"The referee gives you the ball and sets you up. If we are going to grow as a team, we need to be able to step up and hit the free shots." 
While Notre Dame was strug­gling, Syracuse's Jason Cipolla was shining. 
The junior poured in seven of his 10 points in the final three minutes, including a clutch three-pointer with 29 seconds left to put the Orange up 69-67. 
"You have to give them all the credit -we had them beat and they pulled it off in the end," said Irish center Matt Gotsch, who contributed 15 points and seven rebounds off the bench. 

"They happened to have the ball at the right time." 
The Irish had one final opportunity, but Pat Garrity missed a runner in the lane with four seconds remaining and Syracuse's John Wallace outmuselnd (;otsch for the rebound. 
Notre Dam(~ !wid Wallace, an 
' '''. 
! 
j the Syracuse Orangemen won't loss to Syracuse Saturday. take it lightly. 


October 25 -November 3 
Join us for eight days in Ireland (two weekends and a week), featuring Irish ente11ainment. ,. F> and Notre Dame football ­sightseeing, great jazz and P~ and of course plenty of Notre Dame football. ~ Irish entertainment. 
~ 

Only t-. Only 
$2150 g~kago* * $ 1450 Z~kago* 
Other departure citie, aho a\'ailahle. MATTERHORN TRAVEL------­
For complete brochure, phone 1-800-638-9150 or (410) 224-2230. 
October 30 -November 3 If you only have a weekend. you can still enjoy the beauty of Ireland 
The University ofNotre Dame Department ofSociology and Department ofManagement 
~ 
"Organizations and the Concentration of Wealth and Power: The Early Years in U.S." 
a. tedevre 4­
CHARLES PERROW 
Professor of Sociology, Yale University Fellow at the Institute for Advanced Studies, Princeton Univer·sity 
Tuesday~ March 5th 
3:30PM 
Roon1 162 COBA 


The original, directed by J. Lee Thompson $2 Adults, $1 Students 
Charles Perrow is the author of the following three hooks: 
• 
Complex Organizations: A Critical Essay (1993) 

• 
The Aids Disaster: The Fnilure of Orgcmizations in New York and the Nation ( 1990) 


• Normal Accidents: Living u•ith lligh-RisJ..: 1'eclmologies (1984) 
The Observer • SPORTS page 17 


By DAVE TYLER Sports Scribe 
Loyola head coach Dave Cottle knows senior leadership helps win ball games. He also knows what an added bonus it is when younger players step into the lineup and contribute. That's why he was so pleased with his team's performance against a younger, less experi­enced Notre Dame Saturday. 
The #6 Greyhounds used a six goal. two assist performance from senior midfielder Brian Basco and fifteen saves from freshman goalie Jim Brown to down the Irish 14-7 at Meyo Field. Loyola jumped out to an early lead and kept Notre Dame from ever really threatening. 
l \ 
"Brian Basco played like a se­nior today," Cottle said. "In 
\ your first game, every one has the jitters and you need your seniors to step up and play well and show some leadership. Basco really did that today."
L, Late in the the first period Basco scored three straight goals in a 2:19 span to give the Greyhounds a 5-2 cushion they never relinquished. 

"He played a great game for them," Irish head coach Kevin Corrigan said. "As a senior he really came through." 
Meanwhile Brown, aided by tough checking from defense­men Jamie Hanford and Brendan Fry. shut down a Notre Dame offense that played its first game in four years without all time leading scorer Randy Colley. Although the Irish outshot Loyola 46-26, Notre Dame converted on just 
• SPORTS BRIEFS 
Intercollegiate Bowling: Any students interested in collegiate bowling compe­tition, please call Jason at 4-1065. 
Interhall Sports: All off-campus women inter­ested in playing interhall soccer please call Bridget at 273-2284. 
Volleyball: Come see the Irish Men's Volleyball Team take on Teikyo­Marycrest of Iowa on Tuesday, March 5th in the pit (auxiliary gym) inside the JACC. Games announced by -Mike Mathis, the voice of vol­leyball.
\: 
i:
,. 
Bookstore Basketball: Sign-ups continue for the ultimate spring spectacle. 
...... 
VARSITY SHOP 
I 
..... 
i . I. ! 
I 
~ ·~ 

;' . 
------~~---~­
page 18 .The Observer • SPORTS 
•LACROSSE 
Irish start season with loss 

two man-up opportunities. 
Loyola gave Notre Dame plen­ty of power play situations. The Greyhounds were whistled for 11 penalties totaling 11:00 of penalty time. 
And after one of those penal­ties, it appeared Notre Dame would make a run. At the start of the 4th quarter with the Irish down 11-5, Loyola's Mark O'Brien was called for having an illegal stick, a three minute, unreleasable penalty. During that stretch two goals by Tony Reid cut the margin to 11-7 with 9:15 to play. But after an Irish turnover the Greyhounds controlled the ball for the next five minutes. Chris Georgalas scored two goals seven seconds apart to put the game out of reach. 
"We gave them too many open shots. When you have good shooters with their hands free, they can really pick their spots. That's tough on a goalie," said senior tri-captain Greg Glenday. 
"That three minute penalty sent us reeling. We gave them some opportunities but they didn't get a lot out of it," said Cottle. 
"They controlled the offense and knew what they had to do," said Corrigan. "They're a well­coached team." 
While Brown was enjoying a productive start to his college career, Notre Dame's goalie Alex Cade was having an un­Alex Cade-like day. Cade stopped only 8 shots in three quarters of work. 
"A lot of their goals were on shots we usually like to give up. 
Alex is going to make those saves most days," said Corrigan. "We had some breakdowns but we're not going to lose confidence in Alex over one game." 
Notre Dame now embarks on a grueling stretch of seven con­secutive road games, starting with the University of Maryland-Baltimore County on Saturday. After a tough start to the campaign there's certainly little room for error. 
"We'll grow up. We have no choice. We're going to work on our execution of the fundamen­tals, those are the things we h<;tve control of. If you execute, it doesn't matter whether your home or away, indoors or out­side, on turf or grass," Corrigan said. 
Cottle knows his team was hicky to catch the Irish on an atypical day. "I feel very fortu­nate to leave here with a win." 
QUICK STICKS: Notre Dame was without the services of se­nior tri-captain Brian Erickson. Erickson was nursing a pulled quadricep muscle and may be back for UMBC. 
Saturday's loss was the first setback the Irish have suffered at home since 1993, when they dropped a 13-8 contest to Ohio Wesleyan. Over the last three seasons the Irish are 16-1 at home. 
Notre Dame has never beaten Loyola. The Greyhounds own a perfect 5-0 record against the Irish. 
The #12 Irish will return home to face #8 North Carolina on April 13. 
Student Activity E1nployee Applications Available No~! 
Applications are being accepted from now until March 22 for all positions in LaFortune Student Activities Office (under the supervision of the Student Activities Office) and Stepan Center. 
Applications can be picked up at the Student Activites Office, 315 LaFortune, or at the LaFortune Information Desk. 
Apply now for a great opportunity and learning experience! 
all regular priced merchandise at the Varsity Shop. 
(valid at Joyce Center Concourse store and Fieldhouse location) 
valid through Friday, March 15, 1996 

I. 
. "Specializing in Authentic Notre Danze Sportswear." 
' 
Monday, March 4, 1996 
The Observer/Jake Peters 
Greg Glenday (above) and the rest of the Irish played their first game in four years without the services of All-American Randy Colley. 
r-----------,
KRIS'S
1  1  
1  KOUNTRY  1  
I  KITCHEN  I  
I  I  
I I  •Cinnamon Rolls•Cookies•Breads• •Party Tray•Special Orders• All Products are made with Fresh Ingredients  II  
lr=~  I  
I  I  

~~==========~.J
North Village Mall• (219) 271 7888
L 

Bi 9'foe ... Greg Louganis . .. NCAA Tournament Trip... 
These and other events this year were 
brought to you in part by Student Activities 
Want to help plan events next year? And get paid for it? 
Three positions for programming assistants are available for 1996-97 for students who are creative, disciplined, and have leadership abilities. Be responsible for improv­ing campus lift by bringing lecturers, comedians, and entertainers to Notre Dame. 
Applications are available in the Students Activities Office 315 LaFortune and should be returned by March 8th. 
Interviews will be conducted March 19th and 20th... Please remember to sign up for an interview when you turn in your application. 
Call Gayle Spencer with questions @ 631-7308 
#16 Notre Dame vs. Kansas State 
10:00 a.m. 

#16 Notre Dame vs. Drake 
4:00p.m. Eck Tennis Pavilion •Admission: FREE! 


DILBERT 
Monday, March 4, 1996 
FOUR FOOD GROUPS OF THE APOCALYPSE 



MISTER BOFFO 
-=+=-t:--:-1 1 o Crimson 
55 Mr. Fudd 

30 Czech or Pole 46 Facilitated
11 Newspaper 56 Hornet ~-"-+~~:-t essay, maybe 31 London's --48 Moliere 
editors.
57 Pacific rim 

Gallery contemporary
49 Police yell 
-=t=t-:-:+=-football e r 32 Runner Lewis 59 Bedecked 52 Talk on and on
13 Wrigglers 33 Fencing rapier 62 Plus 53 In one fell--63100 yrs. 
Join The Observer
bt=+=+::-t:::-1 18 Battery part 34 Where to learn parallel parking 
1-+--+::-t 21 French port city 35 Some
~,...+.~ 24 GO's TV sign-off, Get answers to any three clues ~..,.....-=+-=+-:-+-=+=+:-t straight from computers 
by touch~tone phone: 1-900~420­
staff. 
the horse's 39 "Surfin' --" 
5656 (75¢ each minute).
mouth (1963 hit) 
Then pick up an application In the Student Government Office on the 2nd floor of LaFortune. 
Applk:lllloa..quick allllea.Jt Just..,ytJur name 8/llllhe ,..,_ ""'lt:ll yDUIIIItlllld ••fD be /ftSINIIIIIL 
All applications for the JBoardl of Trustees Student lBodly IRe port are dlue by March i 
o 
tions play a key role 111 your success. 

r---------------------~ur:~==================~~ 
Business entertainment will pay off.

~ 
... ELIMINA.TE. 51C.K DA.YS. 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): The cost

u 
c 
of living could be inching up; revise
1'\~KE THEM U5E VACATlON 
your budget accordingly. Something 

.!
.. 
OA.'( 5 W~E..N TI-\E'<'RE ILL. 
that has been hidden from you could 

u 
suddenly be revealed. Your career

"0 
c 
CALL IT A "Tlt"\E. ~ANK."

... 
Pasquerllla West Hall. 

• Raffle tickets to win football tickets for 1996 are 
56 All-out fight 
available in the dining halls from March 4~6 for $5 . 
58 Hypodermic 
per ticket. Only 1500 are available. Proceeds will 
amts. 
benefit ..There Are C1:Iildren Here.''
60 Magazine deal &1 Attack 
• Tonight in the Cinema at the Snite the movies
&3 Modern college 
''Singin' in ·the Rain.. and "Sans Solei!" will be playing
lodging 
at 7 and 9 p.m~ respectively. The cost is $2.
64 "Burnt" Crayola color 65 Auto maker 
Ferrari 66 Bullfight cry 67 Like football 
•MENU 

clothes 68 ---do-well 69 Part of m.p.h. 
Notre Dame Saint Maq'.s Beef fajita BBQ sparenbs 
DOWN 
Baked red.fish Chopped beef steak Tomato soup .. Veggie lasagna roll 
1 "Mon--" 2 German city 3 Expressed 
wonderment 4 Feature of Granny Smiths 
Wanted: Reporters, 
5 Concurs (with) 6 Skating couples 7 Uhs' kin 
26 Fed. money 40 Magnificence 54 Baseball8 Halt 
photographers and
overseer 43 Center court Hall-of-Farner9 Fright 29 Picnic ruiner sight Combs 
The Observer • TO0 AY page 19 DAVE KELLETT YOUR HOROSCOPE JEANE DIXON 

HAPPY BIRTHDAY! IN THE NEXT YEAR OF YOUR LIFE: You gain a fresh perspective on an issue that has touched your hean. Go ahead and make changes; new finan<:ial gains follow. Family mem­bers are your best source of support in the months just ahead. Count your blessings! Summer will find you traveling for business or pleasure. Let family members blow you are always with them in spirit A chance encounter could lead to a lasting love alliance. January 1997 ushers in a period of tremendous fUWlCial success. 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: anthropologist Dr. Jane Goodall, Supremes singer Mary Wilson. comedian Catherine O'Hara, Metallica bassist Jason Newsted. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): You will probably have mixed emo­tions about an authority figure's decision. Resist a strong urge to buy items you cannot afford. A positive approach helps improve a parent­child relationship. 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Career and family demands could collide. Making your priorities clear will reduce hassles. Charm will work wonders when dealing with an older person. 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): You are W\Stoppable now! Become a risk -taker in business; luck is on your side. Creative ideas flood your mind; one of them solves a recwring problem. 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): Promoting an iiUIOvative product or service will put you ahead of the competition. Long-distance connec­or propeny rights may be affected. 





VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): A good day for looking into a situation that is affecting your career. You now have a clearer idea of what you really want. An unexpected fUWlCial windfall could tum a fantasy into reality. 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Your good judgment and sense of fair play will be tested today. Exercise self-restraint when dealing with someone who has pel'$0nal prob­lems. Shop for items that will increase the value of your horne. 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Pool ideas with a talented and trust­wonhy friend; both of you could strike it rich! It is high time you thought about expanding a business. A personal relationship needs nur­turing. 
SAGITIARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21 ): An idea or project needs reeval­uation. Be willing to replace outdat­ed procedures. Consulting experts will keep you from making expen­sive mistalces. 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Romance looks promising. Compromise is your best strategy when cementing business or person­al ties. Friends may help you land a new contract. Family members want more of your attention. Do some fun things together. 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): A surprising event continues to mys­tify you. Work is excellent therapy. Dig in! Loved ones help you deal with disappointing news. Although reading or watching 1V is inexpen­sive entertainment, you really should socialize tonight 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Today brings a golden opportunity to promote a business venture. Tax and insurance discussions are fea­tured. Expen advice will prove wonh the cost. Get in touch with friends living overseas; their views are imporwlt. 



• 

ACROSS 
1 Corporate head, for short 4 Scotch or masking, e.g. a Disco light t4 Patient care grp. 15 Food gelling agent 11 Home on the reservation t7 "Apollo 13" actor 
11 Tough time 
20Come back into, as the · atmosphere 21 Lifesaving skill, for short 22 14-Across employees 23 Sumatra's land 
25AIIey-­27--Moines 28 Crier of "Wolf!" 32 Yields 35"When-­
Loves a Woman" 3& Gymnastics coach Karolyi 37 Follower of Mar. 38 Meetings of presidents 41 Pussy 42 Bridle part 44 Noel Coward and others 45 Pet-­47 Borrowing as a financial tool 49 It's south of Ga. 50 Greek letter 51 Mail recipient 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

'I 
·sPORTS 
page 20 
Final Bouts end with fame, frustration 
By MIKE NORBUT 
Sports Editor 
It was a night of fulfilled expectations and surprises. But most, of all, the Bengal Bouts final Friday night was a night of champions. 
Twelve first-time winners were crowned as the 66th annual version of the Bouts came to a close with flurries that many of the 2 800 fans in attendance were not expect­ing. 
John Christoforetti (165 pounds) and Troy Phillips 
(200) were the only two that repeated as champions, while junior Mike Mantey won his second title in three years at 190 pounds. 
Senior captains Bob Lalor and Andrew Dicello, however, did not take home the jackets they expected. 
Considering his close victo­ries in the first two rounds, Lalor's split-decision loss to Pat Maciariello at 170 pounds was not as dramatic as Dicello's, who also fell to on a split decision to sophomore Fred Kelly at 145 pounds. 
It's announcement brought more hisses than a typical Notre Dame basketball game. 
"I thought I won," said Dicello, who was a champion at 135 a year ago. "It was a fairly close fight, but I thought my third round gave it to me." 
It looked as if Kelly took the first round with good defense and quick jabs, but the second round was pretty even. Dicello was the aggressor in the third, as he chased his younger adversary around the ring. 
"When I heard 'split deci­sion,' I wasn't sure," Kelly said. "I thought anything could happen." 
Kelly was one of five first­time boxers to take home a championship. But there were also a lot of firsts for some of 
see BOUTS I page 14 

Monday, March 4, 1996 
Frosh fight a real gem 
By DYLAN BARMMER Sports Writer 

It was a great fight in a night full of more than a few down­ers, a diamond in the rough, so to speak. 
In the finals of the 130 pound weight class in the 66th annual Bengal Bouts on Friday, under the hot lights of the Joyce Center, freshmen Mike McCurdy and Tommy Will, polar opposites in both physique and form, gave the crowd assembled three full rounds of nailbiting action, cul­minating in a furious finale. 
For two rounds, the taller, smoother McCurdy was able to largely hold the compact, powerful Will at bay, employing a dynamite jab and effective footwork to frustrate his oppo­nent. 
see FROSH I page 15 

66th Annual Bengal Bouts 
Finals Best Bout 


Tommy Will vs. Michael McCurdy · 130 lbs. 
Biggest Upset 
Fred Kelly vs. Andrew Dicello · 145 lbs. 
Biggest Slugfest 
Frank Diorio vs. Dan Zepf · 125 lbs. 
' 


Orange down, two to go for Irish in tourney 
By TIM MCCONN dominating performance in the pres­Sports Writer sure-packed atmosphere at the Harry A. Gampel Pavilion on the University of 
The march to the Big East Conference Connecticut campus in Storrs, CT. She Championship has begun. One team has led all scorers with 28 points on 11 of 17 been tossed to the wayside, while two shooting from the field. Gaither also obstacles remain in the path to the goal converted 6 of 10 chances from the free of the juggernaut that is the Notre Uame throw line and grabbed 5 boards. Women's Basketball team. Junior forward Beth Morgan, the lead­
As they expected, the third-seeded ing scorer for the Irish in the regular Irish headed to face the Orangemen of season, contributed 15 points. Syracuse as a result of their defeat of Freshman guard Sheila McMillen came the Mountaineers of West Virginia on off the bench to pour in 14 points, while Saturday. Also, as the cool and confi­sophomore point guard Mollie Peirick dent Notre Dame team expected, they dished out 6 assists to help the Irish handled their quarterfinal opponent cause. with ease. defeating them on Sunday Although the final score suggested a night by thn score of 70-55. 
Junior center Katryna Gaither put on a see HOOPS I page 17 

Men's Basketball 
vs. Syracuse at Big East Tournament, 
Baseball 
Wednesday, March 6 vs. Lewis-Clark State in Seattle tvlarch 8 vs. Long Beach State in Seattle t\ Ltrch 9 
Women's Basketball 
vs. Seton Hall at Big East Tournament, 
Women's Tennis 
Monday, March 4 
vs. Kansas State Sat., March 9, I 0 a.m. vs. Drake Sat., March 9, 4 p.m.
Softball 
at South Florida Tourney, March 8-10 



• 
Lacrosse falls in season opener see page 18 

• 
Men's hoops come up short at 'Cuse see page 16 

• 
Hockey ends season on foul note see page 13 







