
Monday, February 26, 1996• Vol. XXVII No. 97 THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Candidates fight for Cleaver: Youth must choose 
By MATTHEW LOUGHRAN

class, senate positions 
News Writer 
By GWENDOLYN NORGLE study space, have easier access 
Youth today have to make 
A"i'tJnt New> Editor to campus for student drivers, 
choices that will affect the way
and crnalf~ monthly quad opin­
that all of society, black and 
Who will improvn dass unity ion pulls for students to have 
white, male and female, will 
and rommuniealion. provide more "real say" in student gov­
interact over the next genera­
s~~rvic~~ opportunities for stu­ernment, according to his eam­
tion, according to Professor 
d~nlts, and crnate an atmo­paign posters. 
Kathleen Neal Cleaver. 
sphnn~ of fun at Notre Danw'? Cox is concerned with fun 
Cleaver, the founder of the 
1\flpr thn n~sults urn in from while "tackling the ser..ious is­
International Section of the 
today's gnnnral nlnetion, which sues." 
Black Panther Party, gave a 
will dneidn positions for class llis list of planned South 
lecture entitled, "Sex, Race,
oflien and Student Senate, the Quad improvements includes 
and Democracy," to a racially 
campus will b~~ a stnp closer to making South Dining llall less 
diverse crowd at Washington
knowing the answer to this busy, espneially with the addi­llall last night. 
qw~stion. tion of the two new residence 
"The sum of individual choic­
• Thn eandidatns running for halls next year. Another one of 
es, add up to political choices, " 
sP.ats in the Studm1t Senate are Cox's goals is having an out­
said Cleaver, "these choices 
Shane MeHann Bigelow and door spring danee for South 
make up the political world." 
Hyan Cox for District One. Quad residents. 
She compared the choices that 
Patrick Bellon and Michael Funding a report on sexual 

have to be made to today to the The Observer/Dave MurphyGaffud are running to repre­assault on campus is an objec­
choices that she had to make in 
snnl Dislriet Two. Hunning tive of Belton, who said he 

the 1960's. Kathleen Neal Cleaver, Founder of the International Section of the unopposed for District Three is would chair a committee whieh However, she also warned of Black Panther Party, spoke last night on "Sex, Race and Democracy." Mark l.een. Joseph Lang is would discuss the topic. Talent 
the threat of apathy on the part over. Don't think that they gious right, whom she says,
also running unopposed for shows, an all-campus spring 

of students today. "By not aren't out there to take the "claim to be able to take
District Four. formal and an adopt-a-teacher deciding, you forfeit your opportunity." America back to the way it was

Bigelow wants to save 'the program are other goals Belton 

choice," she said, "and some­Cleaver cited examples, suchnight Oak,' nstablish more see ELECTION I page 4 one's else's choice will take as Pat Buchanan and the reli-


The Observer/Margaret Kensinger 
Storytime 
Saint Mary's College presented its annual Storybook Festival Sunday afternoon. Area elementary school children toured through various rooms in Madeleva hall, decoratred with storybook themes. 
see CHOICES I page 8 


African exhibits return after dome renovations 
By JAMIE HEISLER and with the renovations, the Assistanr News Editor outside of the building is al­ways being assaulted, " said 
The African textile exhibit, Bradley. 

I
which was removed from the In order bring the exhibit rotunda of the Administration back to the Dome, repairs to ~ Building due to cracking plas­the interior of the Adminis­ter, will be redisplayed in its tration Building's rotunda were original location today, accord­undertaken immediately and ing to Doug Bradley, curator of induded a complete renovation the Americas, Africa and of the ceiling. Oceania for the Snite Museum. "They ripped out the ceiling 
The exhibit was removed two and put up drywall, then paint­weeks ago when the rotunda's ed it, and had it all completed interior was deemed potentially within two weeks.," Bradley hazardous to the delicate fabrie said. pieces displayed in the collec­Due to limited display space, tion. Falling and cracking plas­the exhibit, which was assem­ter ranked as the primary bled in honor of Black History threat to the exhibit. Month, has not been available 
"The erection of the exhibi­for viewing since its removal. tion had nothing to do with the Because of the significance of ceiling. We had just experi­enced extreme cold weather see EXHIBIT I page 6 



Despite health problems, many continue to smoke 
By PATTI CARSON 
SJint M.~ry\ hlitnr 
Editor's Note: This is the sec­ond of a three part series exploring llw use of tobacco al .'iaint !llary 's College. 
To quit. or nollo quit. 
In an Obs~~rvPr survny of 200 Saint Mary's wonwn last wm~k. 72 IH~rcnnl of tho smokers stal­Pd tlwir intnnlions lo quit. 
Sonwday. 
Of those same smokers, only 4h pnrrm1t have artually tried lo quit at some point in their college canwr. Citing various l'fHtsons for not going smoke­frne, tlw rnsponses ranged from social lo lwalth eonem·ns. 
One smoker n~sponded. "I don't want to gain weight aftnr quitting." 1\notlwr snwknr stat­ed. "I vahw my nwnlal hnalth more than my physical hnalth." 
Orw anonymous smoknr said, "I get hornd when I don't smoke. It's a time filler, like when I'm driving a car," or that "I meet more people every time I take a smoking break." 
The Surgeon Gennral, how­evnr, disputes some of these ideas expressed by smokers. For instance, the risk of a large weight gain after quitting is low. In faet, 75 percent of all ex-smokers do not gain weight, aceording to Surgeon General's n~ports. And while many ex­smokers do eat to deal with the "oral fixation," associated with smoking. the National Cancer Society suggnsts it's healthier to deal with a few extra pounds whieh ean eventually be lost than to jeopardize lungs, which are diffieult to replace. 
The National Cancer Society suggests that even those who plan to quit smoking eventually are still in danger health-wise. Short-tnrm nff'nets of' smoking inelude decreased lung func­tion, which results in shortness of' breath. coughing, and tiring easily from strenuous physical 
-

Part 2 of 3 


activity, according to the soci­ety. Smoking further diminishes the ability to taste and to smell. 
The National Caneer Society claims that it's never too late to quit. The sooner smokers quit. the more they ean reduce their chances of getting cancer and other diseases. 
Local health officials echo that voice, stating that the body begins to regenerate itself with­in twenty minutes of the last cigarette smoked. Arter eight hours the earbon monoxide level in the blood drops to nor­mal. After 48 hours, nerve end­ings start regrowing and the ability to taste and smell is enhanced, officials say. 
In one to nine months, cough­ing, sinus congestion, fatigue, and shortness of breath de­crease and cilia regrow in the lungs. After five years of a smokeless lifestyle, the lung cancer death rate decreases by almost half. And after 15 years, the risk of coronary heart dis­case is that of a non-smoker while the risk of dying from lung cancer is only slightly higher than that of a non-smok­er, according to the American Cancer Society. 

With long-term smoking comes the risk of lung cancer, heart disease, stroke, respirato­ry illnesses. 
But those women polled who successfully quit smoking stated more than health reasons for their decision to quit. 
Many stated that it smoking got too expensive. Those polled claimed that they spent an aver­age of fifteen to twenty dollars per month on tobaceo products. 
According to loeal health offi­cials, a "pack-a-day" smoker, who pays $2 per pack, can expect to save over $700 eaeh year. 

Still, the American Cancer Society cites the health reper­cussions of smoking as the most pressing reason to quit. Three million people din worldwide each year as a result of smoking. This is more than the number of people who would die every year if three jumbo jets craslwd each day with no survivors, according to researchers. 
Despite these facts, more than 3000 young people start smok­ing every day and over 1,000,000 each year, according to the American Cancer Society. And sixty-seven percent of Saint Mary's students tried smoking, according to the survey. 
Thirty-eight percent of those who tried it liked it enough to be categorized as smokers now. This statistic is not far from the national average. Overall. about one-third of young adults in the United States smoke or use smokeless tobaceo. 
~~~~-~-------­
--~~ ~~--­

I ~'2 
Tho Oh"""'. INSIDE Monday, Fohn•uy 26, 1996 
~.==~N=S=ID=E=C=o=tu=M=N==============~=.==w=ro=RL=o=A=T=A=G=u=·t=wc=e================================================~ 


The value 
of 

human life 
Once again California, thP-state I called home for much of my life, has exe­cuted a man. William Bonin, convicted of mur­dering 14 young men and boys in 1979 and 1980, was put to death this weekend at San Quentin. 
The crimes Bonin committed were horri­ble acts. The same is true for those who went before him in other states as well. 
Death penalty supporters will argue that these people got what they deserved. When one commits crimes on the level of a John Wayne Gacy or Ted Bundy, surely they have sacrificed any right to be a part of our society. 
But a nagging question remains. Our gov­ernments have the right to make rules and laws, but do they have the right to play God? Large sectors of our society already feel the government's control over our lives is too great. We are outraged when the state wants to regulate speed limits, yet we're comfortable giving it the power to decide who lives and who dies? 
I understand the notion of retribution-an eye for an eye. Bonin killed 14 people, there­fore he does not deserve to live. Yet we do not apply the same philosophy in other forms of punishment; we don't steal from those who rob, assault those who assault, rape those who rape. We scoff at those nations who cut off the hands of thieves and call countries that cane vandals barbaric, yet we are the only Western nation that actively uses the death penalty. 
I also understand the arguments behind deterrence, that if a person knows they might be executed for a crime, they won't do it. It's a nice argument that looks good on paper, but in the real world it hasn't been proven to work. In fact, in states where the death penalty exists, the homicide rate goes up slightly after an execution. 
We need to realize that our criminal justice system is irrevocably flawed. It is not and never will be a perfect system because it is designed and run by people. people who natu­rally make mistakes. It's a margin of error we accept because on most level$ our system works, but it becomes vastly more important when speaking of life and death issues. It's an awful thing for an innocent person to linger in prison for years, but it's an altogeth­er more horrible thing when an innocent per­son is executed by the state. 
Giving our government the right to take away life, either through the death penalty or abortion, depreciates all life. It tells us that life is not a sacred thing, but that life can be used to settle the score, or set an example, or be eliminated because it was inconvenient. It tells us life is a commodity. that it is some­thing that can be given and taken away. not by God or nature. but by us. 
Criminals on the level of a Bonin, Bundy or Gacy deserve to be punished severely for the pain they inflict not only on individuals, but on society as well. But allowing our states to carry out the death penalty inflicts the same wounds upon society that the serial killer does. It sends out the same message about the value of a human life. It tells us that life is pretty cheap. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 



News Viewpoint Kristi Kolski Meaghan Smith 
Maureen Hurley Production Sports Mike Norbut Caroline Blum Nathan Wills 
Graphics Lab Tech Tom Roland Mike Hungeling Accent Dave Murphy Catherine Deely 
Mike Ruma Kristin Trabucco 

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
Assassination of Iraqi defectors causes Arab rift 
tors' betrayal of their country. 
An Iraqi opposition group and an Arab newspaper directly blamed Saddam and his eldest son, Odai. The reports could not be independently confirmed. 
A statement from the Tehran-based Supreme Assembly for the Islamic Revolution in Iraq said Odai, acting on orders from his father, led the "team that are responsible for liquidating" the defectors. 
Asharq al-Awsat, a Saudi Arabian daily published in several Arab and European capitals, cited diplomats and travelers arriving in Jordan from Iraq as saying Saddam interrogated the two men, forced them to divorce his two daughters, then personally killed them. 
Jordan's King Hussein initially had 

AP supported al-Majid, but later kept the defector at arm's length when Iraqi opposition groups made it clear they remained suspicious of al-Majid's past links with Saddam. 
The King had been trying to overcome a pro-Iraq repu­tation he developed during the 1990-91 Gulf crisis, when his actions and statements angered many Arab states and the West. He recently has been a sharp critic of Saddam and has tried to unite exiled Iraqi opposition groups. 

AMMAN. Jordan 
Jordan's King Hussein on Sunday condemned the killing of two Iraqi defectors he had sheltered, and pre­dicted that his former ally, Saddam Hussein, will not remain in power. 
"I am disgusted by what has hap­pened and I am really unable to express myself towards this terrible time (in Iraq)," King Hussein said. 
Lt. Gen. Hussein Kamel al-Majid and his brother Saddam Kamel al-Majid, who fled to Jordan in August, were killed in Baghdad on Friday. Both were sons-in-law of the Iraqi leader. 
In Cairo, Egyptian Foreign Minister Amr Moussa said the slayings, likely to derail Cairo's effort to bring Iraq back to the Arab fold, were "regrettable." 

"The bloody practices tarnish the Arab image," Moussa said. "This is not the way things should be done, and it's not an Arab manner -nor should it be." 
Asked whether he expected a change in the Iraqi lead­ership, King Hussein told reporters: "I believe it is inevitable. I believe it is inevitable. Things can't go on like that." 
King Hussein and Moussa stopped short of directly accusing the Baghdad government of the killings, said to have been carried out by relatives angered by the defec-
Powell reflects on Gulf War experience 
ARLINGTON. Va. 
Retired Gen. Colin Powell said Sunday the 1991 Persian Gulf War had a clear­cut mission and "no amount of second­guessing or revisionism" can dim the glory of those who served in it. "The goals we were fighting to achieve were crystal clear: to eject the Iraqi army from Kuwait and restore the legitimate government" after the oil-wealthy emi­


rate was annexed by Iraq, said Powell, then chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff. The general was the star attrac­tion at a ceremony honoring more than 400 Americans, plus those from Kuwait and other nations allied against Iraq, who died in the conflict or remain missing or in captivity. The war ended five years ago this week. Powell used the event at Arlington National Cemetery to take issue with those who say the war cost too many American lives. 
Students discover 'brain collection' 
NEW HAVEN, Conn. 
With so many great minds at Yale University, the last place Christopher Wahl expected to find 600 of them was in dusty old jars beneath his dormitory. As a first-year medical student, he listened keenly as upperclassmen told him the eerie legend of a cache of bottled brains located deep within the subbasement of Edward S. Harkness Hall. Then, his curiosity got the better of him. Sometime after midnight -and after a few drinks -he and four other students descended to the former bomb shelter. Their voices hushed so as not to be detected, they picked the lock using a piece of wire. They passed a dimly lit collection of boxes, old furniture, a gurney and other flotsam long since forgotten. Then they found them: On dirty shelves, rows and rows of brains. Each floated in a gallon jar of formaldehyde, yellow, brown and gray. Wahl had no idea that they had found a metic­ulously gathered collection that chronicled the scientific beginnings of neurosurgery. He was just worried about getting caught. 
Nudist Christian colony debuts 
LONGWOOD, N.C. 

"Amazing Grace" lifts softly into the North Carolina pines from the meeting room where voices gather greater fervor with each verse in praising God. Take away the video screen and music and it might be just another Saturday night in a Christian campground tradition ­except the woman leading the song has no clothes on, her husband wears only a T -shirt and all the others are similarly undressed. Welcome to the first Christian Nudist Conference, where naked Christian karaoke is but one sign of a coming-out party for this tiny but growing movement of religious naturists. Some 40 Christian nud­ists from around the country stood naked and unashamed before their God at the conference, which ended Sunday with a worship service where ministers both robed and unrobed distributed communion to the nude and nearly nude outdoor() underneath a wooden cross. Coordinator Carol Love said, "We feel like this is our next step to get closer to God." 
Atlantic City water best for drinking 
BERKELEY SPRINGS, W.Va. 

Atlantic City. N.J., once again is home of the nation's best tap water. That's the decision from a panel of judges that selected the tastiest tap, bottled and sparkling water Saturday at the 10-week Festival of the Waters in Berkeley Springs. It's the third time in the event's six years that Atlantic City has won top honors. Huntington Station, N.Y., came in second and Ames, Iowa, third. Thirty-four communities were entered in this year's municipal tap water division, including last year's win­ner, Kent, Ohio. Organizers said they tried unsuccessful­ly to coax the White House into sending in a sample. "Of course. it's just D.C. tap water, but it's the president's 
D.C. tap water," organizer Jeanne Mozier said. Water­tasting is much like wine-tasting, with judges evaluating appearance, scent and flavor. Unlike wines, however, the tastiest water has few, if any, detectable qualities. To make sure there is no water residue, judges traditionally nibble unsalted crackers between sips. Glasses are rinsed twice in a dish washer to remove soap residue. 

Monday, Feb. 26 AccuWeather"' forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 

8 c£f2 ~
~~~~ 

The AccuWeather®forecast for noon, Monday, Feb. 26. 
Lines separate high temperature zones for the day. 


COLD WARM STATIONARY C 1996 AccuWeather, Inc. 
Pressure 
H L 


HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY Via Associated Press 
Atlanta  79  55  Dallas  76  61  New Orleans 79  65  
Baltimore  62  45  Denver  30  23  New York  57  39  
Boston  53  38  Los Angeles 55  44  Philadelphia 58  41  

Showers T~storms Rain Flurries snow Ice Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy Chicago 45 42 Miami 85 65 Phoenix 57 47 Via Associated Press GraphicsNet Columbus 57 46 Minneapolis 34 23 St. Louis 72 58 
,, ,,, '''' ....... +.:::·.::=· --­

Monday, February 26, 1996 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS page 3 

The Observer/Dave Murphy 
Starry Night under the Dome 
A student adapts Vincent VanGogh's style to sidewalk art. 


The Observer 
News Department 
is now accepting applications for the following paidpositions: Associate News Editor Assistant News Editor News Copy Editor 

Please submit a resume and one page personal statement to Brad Prendergast by Monday, March 4th. Questions? Call 631-5323 or 634-2098 
'Spirit of Blackness' week begins 
By LORI ALLEN Saint Mary's News Editor 
Today marks the beginning of the second annual "Spirit of Blackness" week at Saint Mary's College. The week-long event is designed to raise con­scienceness of multicul­turalism on campus. 
Events begin tonight Paige 

at 7:30 p.m. in Haggar Parlor with a play entitled "A Place at the Table," written and directed by Saint Mary's senior Alia Paige. 
The title of the play stems from comments made concern­ing the fact that most of the black students eat dinner at the dining hall together and all sit at the same table, according to Paige. The play addresses the intolerance and ignorance that exists on campus regarding multiculturalism. 
"There is a definite disparity of views between black and white students and the point that I would like to get across with my play is that everyone is welcome and that there is always a place at the table," said Paige. 
Last year's "Awakenings," Paige's second play at Saint Mary's College, was received well by the community. The 
play generated a positive re­sponse from the student body and pleased Paige, who feels that "culture needs to be pro­moted; if we acknowledge and understand cultures different from our own, we will definitely learn to appreciate and respect one another on a higher level." 
Saint Mary's sophomore Anne Werring said, "Alia did an excellent job last year and I am really looking forward to "A Place at the Table." I am sure it's just as incredible as "Awakenings" was." 
The week of events is pre­sented by the Sisters of Ne­fertiti, in which Paige resides as president. The Sisters of Nefertiti have been on campus since 1989, and currently con­tain four white and two Asian students in addition to the· black students in their mem­bership. 
The Sisters of Nefertiti exists to bring the African-American culture to an apathetic campus. Members of the Sisters of Nefertiti asked some faculty members to offer some of the week's events as extra credit to open up the lines of communi­cation and get the message of multiculturalism across. 
The Sisters of Nefertiti pro­moted this week by displaying biographical sketches of lesser known African-Americans around campus, the last of which will be Queen Nefertiti. 
In addition to "A Place at the Table," the Sisters of Nefertiti have several other events planned for the remainder of the week. 
• 
Tuesday, Vinie Burrows presents "Walk Together Chil­dren," a one-woman production that chronicles African­Americans from slave days to the present in the Little Theatre of Moreau at 7:30 p.m. A reception will follow. 

• 
Wednesday, "Whimsical Words and Sultry Sounds II", a poetry, African folk tale reading in Haggar Parlor at 7 p.m. 


The dining hall will also pre­sent its "Salute to Africa" buffet featuring dishes from all over the world which originated in Africa. 
• 
Thursday, "Higher Learn­ing" will be shown in Carroll Auditorium at 6 p.m. The lilm is about the struggles of African-American and white students trying to find their identity in a racist world. A discussion will be lead by As­sistant History Professor Kelly Hamilton and Assistant Sociology, Anthropology and Social Work Professor Jeffrey Breese, along with two mem­bers of the Sisters of Nefertiti. 

• 
Friday, The Sisters of Nefertiti will be hold their jam celebration of African-Ameri­can culture in Haggar Parlor from 10 p.m. to 2 a.m. 

• 
Sunday, An all school mass will be held in the LeMans Hall chapel at 4:30 p.m. where the Voices of Faith Gospel Ensem­ble will perform. 



Remember to vote today in class officer and stildent senate elections. 
··~~···: .. 



Dine-In/Carryout  Delivery/Carryout  
52850 U.S. 31 Business  18157 State Rd. 23  6305 University Commons  
277-2121  273-1202  271-1166  



SUPER VALUE! BIG VALUE! GREAT VALUE! TRIPLEDECKER PIZZA! New 

TrlpleDec~r P~ 
or Stuffed Crust Pizza 
One Medium
One Medium 1-Topping Pizza 
One Medium Specialty Pizza 



& ~22~.
2-Topping Pizza Any 2nd Medium $5 One Medium Specialty Pizza Any 2nd Medium $5 9
Any Specialty$1?
Add 12 Wings $4 Add 12 Wmgs $4 
NO COUPON REQUIRED 
t>ffftnptrn~/l)/96 Validtlfllyatpo~rtkip.ihnRunil! 
c-t 
Sprcwlty puna m.1y vary. f'IMr tTV.'nlll.m ctJU~ Offrrt-pires 4/30/96. Valid only o11 particip<~ting unils. Specialty 

~:~~~~~/%.v~~:~~ !~a~~t;i~~~~~ ~e
whrn tlfdtnnK O.nt. u'Upon pt'.rparty prr VIlli Gond ptua.'! may vary. One. (OUpon per party pr.r VISit. Good on Pan, n 

and ~and Tossed ~le cru.sl. Pll'ilS(> mention coupon when Nut valid w11h TnplrDrcktr f'iUil or o~nv uther ufftor. ::-U cuupon when ~ng. Not valid with TnpleOecker PilZil or ;my :-U 
by•.W.;d~o"'ofl'itnllul®,lnc. Speci>lty p;>no moy vory. ~
on PMI, Then 'N' ( rupy 11nd H,u\d Tettlled Stylr coot Th1n 'N' Crispy arut Hand TtU'd Style crust Plrase mention 1':. llff<r"P'"'I/J0/96 V;Wdooly•tl"rtoal"lmg ""'"''"""~ ......-......
ordenng. Not valid with TnpleDeckt'l' Pizza or any other offer. : Drhvt'l')'ch.t'I"INIY"PPIY l/20crntr.uhrrdemphtltl -.-Jut othertlfft.r.Dl'hveryshargt"Smayapply.I/'JIJrentcashredmption -.-.ut ~:,~~:.:J apply 1/2Dcent cash redemption value. Not valid with any Lliheroffrr. lA>hvrryrha~ may •pply -.Jut 
: vA!ut. CIIIJIMJ Pwa Hut, Inc IKI vaiUt' 01996 PIZZA Hut, )rl(. «~ Palmi Pmdmg. 019% fuz.a Hut,loc. ~ 
:..............................................................,..................................................................... ....................................................................................................................................... 
1HUTRP100047 

page 4 The Observer • CAMPAIGN NEWS Monday, February 26, 1996 
Election 
continued from page 1 
plans to achieve as a Student Senator. Improving communi­cation between students and the administration and making the commencement ceremony more personal are Gaffud's main objectives. Leen said he wants to "make sure the admin­istration knows what the stu­dents want." And this includes making 'Grab-and-Go' less crowded by moving it to LaFortune and making the wa­ter tower "less of an eye sore" by perhaps painting an "ND" on it, he said. Lang plans on pro­viding "the best and biggest voice" he can for the students of District Four. 
• 
In the off-campus co-presi­dential race, the team of Alex Saksen and Michael Sweeney is running against Mike Irvine and Brendan Tobin. Irvine and Tobin have listed one of their main goals as establishing a greater line of communication between Notre Dame's campus and its off-campus students in regards to campus events. The availability of student parking is also a priority of the Irvine-To­bin ticket. 

Saksen and Sweeney are also concerned with communication, as is evident in their plan to have bulletin boards at apart­ment complexes, which would list job opportunities and inter­hall sports information. The team hopes to have The Observer and Scholastic deliv­ered to housing complexes. Re­establishing Weekend Wheels and having an off-campus for­mal are also among the Saksen­Sweeney ticket's list of goals. 

• 
The senior class candidates for the offices of president, vice president, secretary and trea­surer, respectively, include the ticket of Mike Eger, Brian Zav­islak, Tom Kali and Peter Har­rison and the ticket of Bill Hammonds, Mike Schwartz, Dirk Koester and Erin Purtell. 


Fun is a priority for the Eger ticket, which listed on its cam­paign posters "Class trips to Chicago's finer 'establish­ments"' and Milwaukee brew­ery tours among their goals after taking office. 
The Hammonds ticket, which stressed "experience and new ideas" in its campaign, is also planning class trips and a se­nior class formal. Their objec­tive for service opportunities in­cludes an expansion of Notre Dame's "commitment" to the Northeast Neighborhood. 

• There are four tickets for the junior class offices of presi­dent, vice president, secretary and treasurer, which include the teams of Matt Griffin, Anne Freedy, Beth Nolan and Leon Stransky; Kenneth Kearney, Beth Skalicky, Bethany Heet and Lee Hambright; Joe Haigh, Gary Zehrbach, James Dougherty and Cam Kienstra; Rick Duda, Becca Dalton, Sean Lynch and ·Stacy McNulty. 
Responsibility, creativity, ded­ication and communication are what the Duda ticket has to offer next year's junior class, according to its campaign posters. The team is also con­cerned with creating more so­cial activities and opportunities for service, as is evident in their plan for a "welcome back" party at the Indiana Dunes, a "Battle of the Bands" fund-rais­er and a program called "Big Brother/Big Sister for a Day" for South Bend children. 
For the ticket led by Griffin, class unity is an important is­sue. Mailings to juniors abroad and several class trips are among its goals for next year. The team would also like to es­tablish a junior service week to increase service opportunities for its class. 
One of the primary objectives of the Haigh ticket, according to its campaign slogan, is to "pro­vide You more access to Your government." Networking a study system, having a class mass at the Grotto and provid· ing a junior class homepage with regularly updated class information are among its pri­orities. 
• Sophomore class candidates for the offices of president, vice president, secretary and trea· surer, respectively are as fol­lows: Robert Hermon, Kristi Klitch, Suzi Prchal and Ryan Harding; Peter Cesaro, Michelle Costello, James Farrell and Erin Herlihy; Deanette Weiss, Dave Piening, Marissa Grabato and Brian Lacomb; Alfonso Kennard, Sarah Taylor, Cynthia Serrato and Keith Whelan; Chris Munson, Kristin Yudt, Rachel Rabideau and Hunter Smith; Jay DeCoons, Karen Kilke, Joe Hand and Dan Mullen. 
The Weiss ticket lists two class dances, a ski trip and "greater communication" as its priorities for next year. 
Communication is also an im­portant issue for the Cesaro ticket, which is planning a class newsletter via the world wide web, social-sophomore sports tournament. 
Having a published class newsletter is one of the goals of the Herman ticket, which also wants to increase "spiritual en­richment" on campus by having a Lenten fish fry at Notre Dame. Continued development of ser­vice programs and a benefit basketball game with campus celebrities are among the objec­ti:ves of the team, which is stressing its "strong commit­ment to cooperate with Student Government," according to its campaign posters. 


"Activities, balance and com­munication" are the priorities of the Munson ticket, which is en­couraging class unity in its planning of a sophomore class formal, class study groups and study breaks, and a class forum. 
Amanda Epstein, a member of the election committee, said she expected voter turn-out to be "decent" in today's election. Basing her statistic on the re­sults of the election for student body president and vice presi­dent, Epstein predicted a turn­out of less than 50 percent of the student body. "There are not as many tickets as there were last year," she said in comparing this year's election to last year's. Epstein cited the facts that two candidates are running unopposed in the Stu­dent Senate race, and there are only two tickets vying for the senior class offices. 
Voting in the dorms is from 11 
a.m. to 1 p.m. and from 5 p.m. to 7 p.m. Off-campus students may vote at the LaFortune Information Desk. 
Forbes wins Delaware primary, Dole second 
By THERESA HUMPHREY 
Associated Press 

WILMINGTON, Del. 
Steve Forbes won Delaware's presidential pri­mary Sa fallen leader Bob Dole his second defeat of the week and further confounding the tangled contest for t h e 
Buchanan
Republican presidential nomination. 

Pat Buchanan, who edged Dole in New Hampshire, ran third in Delaware, with former Tennessee Gov. Lamar Alexander a distant fourth. 
In a telephone call to cheer­ing supporters here, Forbes said, "I think this is going to give us a very big boost in Arizona." 
The Delaware turnout was low, yet victory provided Forbes all 12 of the state's del­egates to the Republican National Convention. He called his first win after a free-spend­ing but faltering start "a great triumph ... the beginning of a comeback that will carry us to the nomination." 
Buchanan may benefit the most from Forbes' victory. With Forbes riding some momentum into next Tuesday's primaries, Buchanan will be in a strong position to win a four-way race in the spotlight contest in Arizona. 
Buchanan said that Forbes "finally bought himself a vic­tory in an uncontested prima­ry" by winning Delaware. He guessed that Forbes would draw Arizona votes that oth­erwise would have gone to Dole or Alexander, "and to a lesser extent from me." 
While Dole had party leaders working in his cause, Forbes was the only top candidate who campaigned here. The other candidates were added to the ballot by state law. 
"Delaware certainly is a great state, but we never had a chance to campaign there," said Dole, speaking in Tucson, Ariz. " ... I think if we placed second we did pretty well." But he had the active support of party elders and the defeat can only further damage his already shaken cause in the primaries just ahead. 
P R I N C I P L E S t' f S 0 U N 0 R E T I R E M E N T I N V E S T I N G D or fast relief from the nagging ache of taxes, we As the nation's largest retirement system, based on assets .I.' recommend TIAA-CREF SRAs. SRAs are tax-deferred under management, we offer a wide range of allocation choices annuities designed to help build additional assets-money that -from the TIAA Traditional Annuity, which guarantees can help make the difference between living and living well principal and interest (backed by the company's claims-paying after your working years are over. ability), to TIAA-CREF's diversified variable annuity Contributions to your SRAs are deducted from your salary accounts. And our expenses are very low,<> which means more on a pretax basis. That lowers your current taxable income, so ofyour money goes toward improving your future financial you start saving on federal and, in most cases, state and local health. income taxes right away. What's more, any earnings on your To find out more, calli 800 842-2888. We'll send you a SRAs are also tax-deferred until you receive them as income. complete SRA information kit, plus a free slide calculator that That can make a big difference in how painful your tax bill is shows you how much SRAs can lower your taxes. every year. Call today-it couldn't hurt. Ensuring the future for those who shape it."" •S~nJ~nJ dtoor; IIIJurttnie &lf!JA_trillyJiJ, 1_995~ LipP:r Analytical Services, Inc., Lipptr-Dirtcttw' ANllytical Daia, 1995 (Quarterly). CREF certiiica.tes are distributed by TIAA-CREF Individual and Institutional rvtces, nc. or more compete mfonna.tton, mcludmg charges and expenses, ca.ll.l 800-842-2733, ext. 5509, for a. current CREF prospectus. Read the prospectus carefully before you mvest or send money.  

Monday, February 26, 1996 
The Observer· ISRAELI BOMBING page 5 





Twenty-five die in suicide bombings in Israel 
By KARIN LAUB 
Associated Press 
JERUSALEM 

In the deadliest attack in Israel in two decades, militant Palestinians avenged last mon­th's assassination of their chief bombmaker with two suicide bombings Sunday that killed 25 people and imperiled the peace process. 
The explosions blew apart a Jerusalem bus and a soldiers' depot. Two Americans were among the dead. At least 82 people were wounded. 
Now, just three months ahead of May 29 elections, Israelis once again must rethink their commitment to peace with the Palestinians. 
The U.S. embassy identified the dead Americans as Mattityahu Eisenfeld, 25, of West Hartford, Conn., who was studying at a Jewish seminary in Jerusalem, and Sarah Duker, 22, of Teaneck, N.J., who was studying at Hebrew University. 
In May, Israelis will have to decide whether to press on with Prime Minister Shimon Peres' vision of peace despite misgiv­ings, or back a right-wing gov­ernment that would suspend or slow the peace process. 
"Up to now, Peres has main­tained a comfortable lead over his challenger, opposition leader Benjamin Netanyahu. But terror attacks such as Sunday's bombings could per­suade voters in the middle of 


1997 school year are available MoNDAY through WEDNESDAY, FEB. 26-28, inside the Recyclin' Irish Advisor's office (Purchasing Department, 222 Main Building). Applications are due WEDNESDAY, by 5:00PM. Decisions will be announced FRIDAY, MARCH 1, by phone. 
Attention Club Presidents Stop by the Club Council Office for next year's club packets. As always, remember you can reserve a por­tion of this ad space for no charge. Advertising forms available in the CCC office. 
711i.o; Sf'n•ice is /Jml'ided I'm· you by the Club Coorrlinntion Cowu:il. 6.'114078 206 LaFortune 
tn 




pril
Sign-ups: 
Notre Dame 

Monday. Feb. 26 & Tuesday. Feb. 27 11 AM-2PM and 4PM-8PM 
in the 
Library Concourse 


AP 
Israel's political spectrum that going ahead with Peres' peace agenda is too risky. 
Ultra-Orthodox protesters vented their anger at Peres on Sunday when, ringed by dozens of police, he visited the site in Jerusalem. Dozens booed him, chanting, "With blood and fire, we will throw out Peres." 
The prime minister said there was no miracle cure for suicide attacks. "I know deep in my heart that on the way to win peace, we shall have to pay a heavy toll for it," he told a news conference. 
The first blast went off at 
6:48 a.m (11 :48 p.m. Saturday EST) in downtown Jerusalem, ripping through the crowded No. 18 bus and hurling bodies into the air. The explosives, TNT packed with nails and ball bearings, killed 23 and wound­ed 49. 
"The bus went up into the cide bomber reportedly dis­air," said Yigal Kara, a witness. guised as an Israeli soldier "I saw parts of bodies. A head blew himself up at a hitchhik­fell in front of us to the ing stop for troops returning to ground." base after weekend leaves. Two 
About 45 minutes later, in the people were killed and 33 coastal town of Ashkelon, a sui-wounded. 


Retaliation options limited 
By NICOLAS TATRO 
Associated Press 
JERUSALEM 
Israelis gritted their teeth and some demanded swift reprisals against Islamic militants who launched Sunday's dual suicide bombings. 
But when it comes to retaliat-
Clinton claims blast will not derail peace 
By SONYA ROSS hsodated Pres.s ::t 
,qj> . .·WASHINGTON 
Prestdent Clinton con­demned Sunday's two deadly bomb attacks in Israel as bru· talities that ''offend the con­science of the world" but would not sidetrack efforts for 
peace in the Middle East. 
Secretary of State Warren 

Christopher said he received 
assurances from both Israeli 
Prime Minister Shimon Peres 
and Palestinian leader Vasser 
Arafat that the bombings 
"will not do anything to inter­
fere with their commitment to 
stay on the path to peace." 
Christopher said he spoke 

with Peres and Arafat by tele­
phone, and the president also 
spoke with Peres. 
Twenty-five people. includ­

ing two Americans, were 
killed when bombs ripped 
through a bus in downtown 
Jerusalem and a soldiers' 
post in the coastal city of Ashkelon. More than 80 peo­ple were injured. 
Clinton called the bombers "enemies of peace." "Their dark vision is of the past, not the present: Of violence, not hope for a better future," Clinton said. 
The Muslim militant group Hamas claimed responsibility for the attacks, which were the worst against Israel since the first peace agreement with the Palestine Liberation Organization was signed in September 1993. 
The White House initially said one American had died. But at an afternoon briefing, Christopher disclosed that two Americans were killed. 
The United States, Clinton said, "stands alongside Israel and with all the peacemak­ers" in eontinuing to seek a settlement that would allow Arabs and Israelis to live together amicably. 
ing against militant attacks, Israel's long-term options are limited. 
Prime Minister Shimon Peres' immediate responses -sealing Israel's borders with the West Bank and Gaza Strip and sus­pending ties with Vasser Arafat's autonomy government -were not expected to last long. 
Peres himself said he would not freeze the peace process, as the right-wing Likud opposition demands. 
The next steps in that process include the withdrawal of most Israeli troops from Hebron in late March and the start of talks in May on sensitive issues like the future of Jerusalem and of Jewish settlers in the West Bank. 
Military action also was un­likely. 
"The problem is known: In the face of a lone terrorist who is ready to commit suicide, nei­ther we nor any other country has found a comprehensive solution," said Police Minister Moshe Shahal. 
Jamil llamami, a spokesman for the militant Islamic group Hamas in Jerusalem, said tough measures would only lead to a "backlash." 
Palestinians say the only way to end the cycle of violence and reprisal is to end confiscation of Arab land, release thousands of Palestinian prisoners in Israel and allow freedom of move­ment and trade between Israel and the Palestinian-ruled areas of the West Bank and Gaza Strip. 
Free Pregnancy Test Referrals to Support Agencies Confidential Counseling
Saint Marys College 
11AM-1PM and 5PM-7PM 
in the 

at SMC Dining Hall 
Limited space available 

Questions? call Mike Dunn 634-3000 
SOUTH BEND • EAST  DOWNTOWN SOUTH BEND  
Ironwood Circle  417 N. St. Louis Blvd.  
20041ronwood Circle, Suite I  Call 234·0363  
273·8986  (24 hours)  

BOTH LOCATIONS CONVENIENT TO CAMPUS 

Monday, February 26, 1996

page 6 The Observer ·INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
• RussiA 

Exhibit 
continued from page 1

Thousands call for IRA Troops to withdraw 
the exhibit, the duration of the display has been extended

to stop random killings fro01 Chechen border 
until late March. 

By SHAWN POGATCHNIK 
Associated Press 
Church bells pealed through­out Ireland on Sunday as tens of thousands called upon the Irish Republican Army to stop its killing. It was the most widespread protest against IRA violence in two decades. 
In downtown Belfast, 10,000 demonstrators chanted "Cease­fire now! Give us back our peace!" following the IRA's de­cision to end its 17-month cease-fire with a bombing in London. 
Thousands more delivered the same message in 10 other Northern Ireland towns, and an estimated 60,000 marched in the Irish Republic. 
"We are not going to allow the agenda for this democracy to be set by the army council of the IRA," said Irish Prime Minister John Bruton in a peace ·march from his home­town church in rural County Meath. 
"This secret organization, whose membership is un­known, who are accountable to no one, who do not stand be­fore the public to get approval for what they do, has no right to act on our behalf. And the people of Ireland are saying: Stop," he said. 
In Dublin, U.S. Ambassador Jean Kennedy Smith joined a 25,000-strong rally in College Green, where three months ago President Clinton addressed a crowd confident that the IRA cease-fire would last. 
In Washington, Clinton threw his support behind those call­ing for peace. 
"Those who seek to use vio­lence and terror should hear the voices of today's vigil being conducted across our lands: No to violence, yes to peace," he 
Raise Your Scoresl 
said in a statement Sunday. 
In London, about 60 people attended a vigil on the steps of a church in Trafalgar Square, near where a bomb exploded prematurely on a bus a week ago, killing the IRA man carry­ing it and wounding nine peo­ple. 
The demonstrations were reminiscent of the 1976 protests that mobilized tens of thousands and earned two Belfast women a Nobel Peace Prize, but never pressured the Catholic-based IRA or its "loy­alist" Protestant enemies to lay down arms. 
The IRA said it ended its 17­month cease-fire Feb. 9 be­cause Britain moved too slowly toward calling multi-party ne­gotiations on Northern Ireland's future. 
A few dozen supporters of the IRA-allied Sinn Fein party stood stone-faced at the rallies in Belfast and Dublin, holding placards demanding "Make Peace Work-Negotiate Now." 
Associated Press 

NAZRAN 
Russian officials promised Sunday to withdraw their troops from Ingushetia, a tiny republic that borders the breakaway region of Chechnya, Ingush officials reported. 
Fighting has spread to Ingushetia in recent days, caus­ing casualties and alarming its leaders, who have been trying to keep their region out of the 14-month Chechen war. 
Ingush President Ruslan Aushev said the agreement was reached in talks Sunday with Lt. Gen. Gennady Troshev, whose units have shelled the mountain village of Arshty for the past three days. 
"I managed to convince the general that it is pointless to keep regular forces in Ingushetia," Aushev said in Nazran, the Ingush capital, ac­cording to the Interfax news agency. 
Interfax said the Russian gov­ernment issued a withdrawal 
App cations are now being accepted for Food and Supply Manager at the Alumni-Senior Club for the 1996-1997 school year. 

order later Sunday. 

According to Aushev, the vio­lence began when Chechen rebels hiding near Arshty am­bushed a Russian force en route to Bamut, a rebel strong­hold just across the border that has been under Russian attack for months. 
Chechen rebels have moved quite freely across the ill-de­fined border between Ingushetia and Chechnya. The two peoples have close ethnic, religious, cultural and linguistic ties. 
According to Bradley, "In effect, by popular demand, we're extending Black History Month into March." 
Today also marks the unveil­ing of another display featur­ing African pieces, including art and clothing, which will be located in the second floor con­course of the Hesburgh Li­brary. 
The display, entitled, "Africa at the Crossroads" represents all regions of Africa, with a spotlight on the West African republic of Benin, which became the first country in Africa to make a peaceful tran­sition from a totalitarian dicta­torship to democracy and a free market economy in 1990. 
The exhibit is scheduled to run for three months and will be officially unveiled today at a ceremony at 12:15 p.m. on the second floor of the Hesburgh Library. It is sponsored by the African Students Association, the Holy Cross Missions, Educational Media, and the Hesburgh Library. 

Come Join the Team! 

Pick up applications at the office o Student Activities. 

Satisfaction Guaranteed 
Small Classes • Oynami: lnslrl£tii'S PMM:tk:e Testq+Free Extra-He., 
~ ~NCF:rON 800/2-RfVIfW
~·REVIEW .ILCIIICIIIOPIIIHI.C• 
T.P.R. is not affiliated wilh Princaton University or E.T.S. 

SwoENrs, FAGJL1Y, STAFF Don't Pass Up This Opportunity Fast growing telecommunica­tions Co. looking for Reps in this area. Must be a motivated self-starter looking for fun and money! Enjoy working with others and being your own boss. Full or part time. Finally, get the rewards that match your efforts. Call today for more information! 
Michael Summers Regional Director 679-9257 


THE LAW SCHOOL EXPERIENCE FROM APPLICATION TO ATTENDANCE 
Tuesday, February 27 at 7:00p.m. 155 DeBartolo Hall 
A 12-member panel of prospective and current law students will discuss 
a range of topics from preparing for 
the LSAT to planning for 
graduation from law school. 
ALL STUDENTS ARE WELCOME 
Monday, I;ebruary 26, 1996 The Observer • INTERNATIONAL NEWS page 7 
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~~-­
Two American planes shot down near Cuba 
Administration 
accuses Cuba of 'blatant violation' 
By JIM ABRAMS 
Assm:ialt'd Press 
WASHINGTON 

Tlw Clinton administration on Sunday dm:rind Cuba's downing of two small American planes as "a blatant violation of intema­lional law" hut its only imrnedi­att~ msponse was to senk puni­tivt~ actions from the United Nations. 
As l'rnsidm1t Clinton eonsid­nrnd a range of other options, the incident catapulted the <:uhan-Anwrican relations to tlw fornfront of debate just two wonks bnfore Florida's dele­gale-rich presidential primary. 
Lawmakers sought to rally support for a tougher trade embargo on Cuba, a matter that is pending on Capitol llill. And 
~===============-~~=-=-==~:>
~~~~=­
lttw. f~tlwat·d Ut·anch, D. tlin. 
(ntholl( Chuplmn, Atlo11tu Unive1sity Contu1 Vrco President. Nuliona/8/a,k Curholk Uergy Coucus IO<ihtotor. 1993 World Youth Day i11 Denver, Coiorado Speoker ond fncrhtntm, Catholic your/1 tmnislry 
1m 
(7\/VtPUSMINISTRY 
GOP presidential candidates demanded deeisive action. por­traying Clinton as sort on Fidel Castro. 
"Instead l)f siding with Castro in opposing tougher sanctions, President Clinton should now voice his support for tightening the Cuban embargo," Senate Majority Leader Bob Dole said. 
Dole's rival for the nomina­tion, Pat Buchanan, said U.S. lighter planes should patrol in­ternational waters off Cuba. If Cuban planes attack planes in those waters, "[ would shoot the Cuban planes down," Buchanan declared. 
At a White House briefing, Seeretary of State Warren Christopher said the president's top advisers met for three hours Sunday morning to sort out the facts from the incident Saturday and to develop a response. 
He said a range of options was being submitted to Clinton Sunday night. Senior aides de­clined to describe the options, but said a decision was not ex­pected before Monday. 

Christopher said the United States believes the planes, op­erated by a Florida-based group that flies off the Cuban coast in search of possible refugees, were in international air space when they were shot down Saturday. Four people aboard the two small planes are miss­ing. 
But senior administration aides said at least one of the group's three planes entered Cuban air space at some point before the shootdown. One plane returned safely. 
The aides said that, in viola­tion of international law, the Cuban jet that shot down the two planes did not make an ef­fort to signal impending danger to the pilots, such as wagging its wings. Nor did it try to escort the aircraft from the area be­fore requesting permission to fire, the aides said. 
"It is clear that the Cuban ac­tions yesterday were a blatant violation of international law 
By GEORGE GEDDA 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
Just weeks ago, Cuban President Fidel Castro seemed to be reaching out to Washington. He released three political prisoners at the re­quest of a U.S. congressman and made a major concession on a migration issue following American complaints. 
But the long troubled rela­tionship is now back on more familiar ground following the shooting down north of Cuba of two planes belonging to Miami exiles and Cuban charges that the United States was organiz­ing dissident activity on the is­land. 
In retrospect, it seemed just a matter of time before an inci­
·•fulturt~, 'l'ntdition and Stt~wat·dship ol' Our llistory: 1\ llt~t~itu~ ftw S•uwtity" 
Wednesday, February 28, 7:15p.m. Keenan-Stanford Chapel 
Father Branch will also celebrate the 10 a.m. and 11:45 a.m. Mosses at the Basilica of the Sacred Heart on Sunday, March 3. 
Black Catholic Series University of Notre Dame 
Aircraft shot down by Cuban fighter planes 
Cuban fighter planes shot down two small aircraft belonging to an exile group flying off the coast of Havana. 
Brothers to the Rescue 
"'Founded five years ago by Jose Basulto, a veteran of the 
failed Bay of Pigs invasion ~~> Pilots dropped leaflets over Havana last July and again in January urging peaceful protest to the communist regime of 
President Fidel Castro 
100 miles 
Atlamic Ocea11 
~ 
100km 

.-'-------, 

Cessna 337 Skymaster Length 29 ft. 9in. Height 9ft. 2in. Wing span 38 ft. 2in. Maximum cruising speed 195 mph 

Range  1,140 miles  
~--...,.--...,.....-,...,--­·----~--· -·­---··---­ -­ - 
Source: Jane's All The World's Aircraft  APIA. Toro  

and a violation of the norms of broad daylight, on the instruc­civilized behavior," Christopher tions of Cuba's highest military said. authorities." He said the U.S. 
He harshly condemned the response would be "fully ap­attack as being conducted "in propriate." 

Attack neutralizes relations 
dent such as the one that oc­curred Saturday would take place. As recently as Jan. 15, Cuba had warned that it would take "all necessary measures" to halt flights over the island by U.S.-based groups opposed to Castro, including shooting them down. 
The warning was prompted by flights on Jan. 9 and Jan. 13 by U.S.-based pilots who tossed out hundreds of thousands of leaflets with anti-Castro mes­sages. 
In the Saturday incident, four people were aboard the two small aircraft that were shot down by fighter planes off Cuba's coast. The Cuban Foreign Ministry had said the planes were within eight miles of the coast -well within Cuban air space. But the flights' sponsors insisted the planes were in international air space. 
There is little question now that the incident has neutral­ized the slight progress that has been made recently. Cuba felt it had to act on the repeated warnings it had issued; President Clinton, in contrast, believes the Cuban action was far out of proportion to the provocation. It remains to be seen how the attack will affect the dealings of the two coun­tries on migration and other is­sues. 
The administration's first ac­tion Sunday was to call for a meeting of the United Nations Security Council to discuss punitive actions. 
The incident almost certainly will give new ammunition to sponsors of a long-pending pro­posal in Congress to tighten sanctions against Cuba. It in­cludes a controversial measure that would permit law suits to be filed in U.S. eourts against foreign companies that "traf­fic" in properties stolen by Cuba from Americans. 
The attack also occurred at a time when the interest of American companies in learn­ing about the foreign invest­ment climate had been increas­ing dramatically. 
JOHN W. ·BORKOWSKI 
HOGAN & HARTSON, NEW ORLEANS 
"CONTEMPORARY LEGAL ISSUES OF RACE IN PUBLIC EDUCATION" 
---------------------·---­
4:15P.M. 
ROOM 124 

CENTER FOR SOCIAL CONCERNS 
John W, Borkowski is a partner with the law firm of Hogen & Hartson in New Orleans. His legal practice focuses on the representation of school districts and universities in desegre­
gation cases, Title VI and Title IX compliance matters, and the 
design and defense of race· and gender-conscious education 
policies. Mr. Borkowski, an adjunct faculty member at Loyola 
School of Lew, received his undergraduate degree from Notre 
Dame and a J.D. from Northwestern University School of Lew. 
The Henkels V1s1tmg Co-Sponsored by· Scholars Senes 11 a Afr1can-Amencan Program of the College Stud1es Program. Dept of Arts and letters, of Sociology, Center and Js made possible tor Soc1al Concerns. by a generous endow and Urban lnstllute for
Univ ot Noire Dame, men! provided by Paul Communtty and
Tel (2191 631-6798 M & Barbara Henkels Educational lntttattvn. 

or 631-9015 

Upcoming Series Speakers: ., March 19, Douglas Massey,
··>nAND 
Room 124 CSC

STill March 28, Dianne Pinderhughes, esc
UNEQUAL 
Monday, February 26, 1996

page 8 The Observer • INDlANA NEWS 


Senators fight to save 'unconstitutional' tax 

Associated Press 
INDIANAPOLIS 

There's at least one tax Indiana officials are determined not to cut, even though the state Supreme Court has ruled it unconstitutional. 
It's the excise tax levied on the possession of marijuana and other illegal drugs. A state senator and the Bayh adminis­tration are trying to change the law so the tax can still be col­lected. 
"I think it's worth the effort," said Sen. Richard Bray, R­Martinsville, who will propose legislation this week that tries 
Choices 
continued from page 1 
before, if you can really call that America." 
Cleaver contrasted today's society with the decade in which she was a college stu­dent and young activist. "In · the sixties," she said, "we had to decide major questions and made decisions that we were personally going to do some­thing about the war and the social inequality. We had mas­sive, raucous, high-powered debate on how we thought that society should be. 
"Even today," she continued, "there is still a profound diffi­culty in transcending the degradation of centuries." 
However, she warns that there is a cost to be paid for making the right choices. "Success is not costless," Cleaver said. "and it is not without detractors. Leaders from President Kennedy to the leader of the Black Panthers were assassinated for their elo­quent pleas on civil rights." 
She also spoke of the prob­lems faced by women in the past three decades. "In the to make the drug tax constitu­tional. 
Bray, a former Morgan County prosecutor, said the tax can be an effective tool against drug dealing. But it has faced legal challenges almost since it was enacted. Last December, the Indiana Supreme Court ruled the law violated the U.S. Constitution's prohibition against double jeopardy, that is, facing criminal sanctions twice for the same offense. 
The justices ruled that the tax is so steep -$40 per gram, or $1,160 per ounce-that its im­position amounts to a criminal penalty. Filing criminal charges 
1966's women not only joined, but sometimes led civil rights movements. They not only joined, but sometimes led anti­war movements." Cleaver said, "There were problems between men and women in the Black Panthers, and we knew that liberation would not come sep­arately for either group." 
She ended her lecture with a call for students to "Stand up for your rights. Do not let any­one tell you that you cannot make a difference. Think about the choices and struggles that have been made before when making your choices. The fight against racism and sexism in the '60~s was nothing but the beginning." 
Cleaver was the first women to serve on the Central Committee of the Black Panther Party and was the wife of civil rights leader Elderidge Cleaver, with whom she lived in exile from 1968 to 1975. She has both a bachelor's degree and law degree from Yale University and is now a profes­sor of law at Emory University. She is currently on leave as a visiting scholar in the W.E.B. Du Bois Institute for Afro­American Research at Harvard University. 

after imposing the tax therefore the tax. is a second attempt to punish He will offer it on the Senate the same crime. floor this week as an amend­
Bray worked with the Indiana ment to a bill that enhances Prosecuting Attorneys Council criminal penalties for selling or and aides to Gov. Evan Bayh in possessing drugs within 1 ,000 drafting the proposal to save feet of a family housing com­plex, defined as a complex with at least 12 units that permits children. 
The amendment allows a judge to impose the tax when a drug offender is sentenced, not before. It also permits the state 


(No, this is not a cruel joke). 
Help Student Activities pick a comedian for a show this semester. Check which of the following shows you would attend and send to 315 LaFortune by Fri., March 1st. 
PAULA·POUNDSTONE $4/TICKET 
PENN & TELLER ROB SCHNEIDER STEVEN WRIGHT  $7/TICKET $4/TICKET $5/TICKET  
Name: Phone Number:  

Winner will receive dinner for two, a .limousine for transportation, two tickets to the show, and a chance to meet the comedian. 
I I I I 
I CLASS OFFICE AND I 
I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I
I. I 
I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I 





VIEWPOINT 
Monday, February 26, 1996 page 9 
THE OBSERVER 
NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY\ OFfiCE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1995-96 General Board 
Editor~ in-Chief John Lucas Business Manager Joseph Riley 

News Editor ............................... llavid Tyler Advertising Manager ........................... John Porter Viewpoint Editor ................. Mcaghan Smith Ad Design Manager ...................... Jen Mackowiak Sports Ediwr ......................... Mike Norbur Production Manager .................. Jacqudint: Moser Acccnl Editor ........................ Krista Nilnnc:ry Systems Manager ............................ Sean Gallavan Saini Milry's Fdiror ................... Patti Carson Observer Marketing Dircctor .......... Pete Coleman Coouroller ............................................. Eric Lorge 
rhc <)h~erver is the indcpcnJcnr m.·wspapcr published by rhe sruclt.·nts of rhc Univer-;iry of Notre l )Jmc du 1..&..: Jnd Saim MJry'~ College. It due~ not necessarily reflecr rhe poli~.:ics of the adminhara­tinu uf c:ithcr in!>titutinn. The nt.•ws is reported as ac~.:ur.udy <.md objel'tively a~ possible. Unsigned edi­IOriJI~ rcprcscnt rhe opinion nf rhe majoriry of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Ediror, Nl:'ws Ediror, Vicwpuint EJiwr, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Ediror, and Saint Mary's Ediror. ( :umrnentarics, lrtu:r~ Jnd Inside: Column~ present the views of the authors, and not necessarily those of The ( )bscrvcr. Viewpoint sp..1cc i!i available ro all mcmhers of rhc Norre Dame/Saint Mary's com­muniry .uul to all leader~. The free exprc:ssinn of varying upiniom through letters is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 

EJitor-in-l:hief 631-4'i42 Business Oflic< 631-5313 Man.tging EdiltJr/Vicwpuint 631-4541 Advertising 631-690018840 Sport!> 631-4543 Systems/Marketing Dept. 631-8839 News/l,luuo 631-5323 OAice Manager 631-7471 Anent/Sainr Mary'!o 631-4540 Fax 631-6927 Day Ediwr/Prudu~.:lion 631-5303 Viewpoint E-Mail Viewpoint.( @nd.edu Cc:ncrallnformation 631-7471 Ad E-Mail observer@darwin.cc.nd.cdu 
• WINTER OF MY DISCONTENT 
Alcohol triggers deeper social problems 

A nother grim midwinter here in lovely .t-\South Bend has recently been made all the more bleak by the widespread rumor that Notre Dame is considering abandoning its liberal alcohol policy and "going dry." I suppose vanquished stu­dent body pmsidential candidate Hyan Mdnerney gets a fair amount of credit for propagating this notion having promised to "keep the campus wet" dur­ing thn rncent campaign. However, our valued journalistic colleagues over at ,C.,'cholastic kicked the rumor mill into high gmtr by placing this issue on their cover last week. Well friends, regardless of the aceuracy of these rumors, I feel compellml to comment on what I believe is a deeply misguided scheme. 
S
I am thll first to acknowledge that, for lack of a better term, "binge drinking" is a major problem hern at ND. Most of us have both snen it and experienced it. What's more, I am the last person to arguB that the social climate here is in any way, shape, or form healthy. In many quarters on this campus it is more sodally acceptabln to drink yourself sick than it is to have a "dinner and a movie" date. Yes, alcohol abuse is a very real problem here. What our myopic admin­istration must recognize is that the prevalence of alcohol misuse is but a symptom of the much larger problems of the lack of entertainment options for students and the regrettable state of gender relations on this campus. In other words, any attempt to address the aleohol problem without addressing its root causes is doomed to failure. o the question before us and our administration is "Why is it that alco­hol abuse is so common at this UnivBrsity?" While it would be presump­tuous of me to try to unilaterally answer this critical query, I will cite at least thrne contributing faetors to the prob­lmn: 1) the isolation of the campus and resultant boredom that pervades it, 2) the policy of gender segregation that sti­fles normal male/fmnale contact, and 3) 
• ":JONESBURY 
T
a tradition of alcohol consumption and of winking at the consequences of this behavior. This list of causal elements is not comprehensive but bears examina­tion nonetheless. he simple reality of a Notre Dame 
student's existence is that in the 

Christopher Kratovil 

T
absence of a ear (or a roommate with a ear) you are a de facto prisoner of this campus. South Bend, what there is of it, has only a minimal public transportation system which shuts down around 9 o'clock pm. Needless to say, our University makes no effort to offer shut­tle service with even the safety-oriented "Weekend Wheels" having been shut down. he few dozen or so taxi cabs that serve the South Bend market are hopelessly over worked. So when even a simple trip to the movie theater or mall becomes a special occasion for the aver­age careless Notre Dame freshman or sophomore, how can any one be sur­prised that they take full advantage of being allowed to drink in their own rooms on campus? When a freshman's entertainment options are. basically to study, sit around or to go to a "dorm party" and drink, it is only to be expect­ed that many. if not most, choose to drink. 
If the University is serious about solv­ing its alcohol dilemma, it must strive to provide its younger students with week­end entertainment options that are not centered around overcrowded dorm rooms and trash cans full of cheap beer. Providing transport to movie theaters, bowling allies and other non-intoxicat­ing venues is a good place to start. 
It is my heartfelt conviction that this institution's anachronistic policy of gen­der segregation within dormitories con­
'Banning booze without 
addressing the real problems would be the equiv­alent of giving a cancer patient some Tylenol.' 
N
tributes to an unhealthy social atmos­phere, and hence indirectly to the alco­hol problem. It is a demonstrable socio­logical fact that alcohol abuse is more prevalent within all-male institutions; I experienced this first hand for a decade in an all male prep school where drunk­enness was an accepted part of the weekend routine. The official gender segregation policies here at Notre Dame, as I have maintained in previous columns, allow the all-male dorm to become a kind of fraternity in which alcohol abuse is simply a matter of machismo. In a more balanced and nor­mal system of co-residentiality I doubt that the sort of testosterone driven drinking binges that currently occur in every male dorm on this campus would be as acceptable. In simpler terms, deprive the wannabe-Greeks of their all­male frat house and much of this abuse problem is resolved. otre Dame has the tradition and rep­utation of being a hard drinking school. Before I ever set foot on this campus, at least a half dozen high school teachers and ND alumni had cau­tioned me (for all the good it did) about the excessive use of booze that charae-
GARRY TRUDEAU 

OW 5/TCOM :iTAI<'3, ON&-H/T ROCK£RS, ANYONE aJHOWAS A/..M05T50/Y!EONP§OA1&NIGI-IT5 7He PLACE 15 SJVARMIN6 fAJ!lH 
PEOP/.£ I(JHO LOOK VAGUUY 
FAMIL-IAR/ 
terizes the social life here. At a mlm­mum, there is a very casual attitude towards alcohol here and even the youngest students soon pick up on this 
I
and come to view intoxication as a nor­mal social phenomena. This legacy of alcohol abuse is one of the uglier aspects of Notre Dame's otherwise proud tradition. At some point this University will have to come to terms with this unfortunatn reality. n coming to terms with it we rnust F
seek to addr.ess the causPs of the prob­lem and not the symptoms. Outlawing alcohol for minors on campus would have tragic results. For example, the drinking scene would move entirely off­campus with all of the safety concerns and potentially tragic results (i.e. DUll that that implies. Criminal prosecution of students for underage drinking off­campus would skyroeknt. The relatively low levels of illegal drug use on this campus would rapidly increase, since it's a lot easier to hide a couple of joints or 'shrooms in a dorm room than a casP of beer. inally, the coming of a "dry" campus would be the nail in the coffin of the already rapidly disappearing institution of four year residential hall life. What upperclassman is going to want to stay on a campus where having a couple of beers in the fridge can result in discipli­nary action? 
Alcohol abuse on a campus-wide level can not be dealt with independently of its root causes. In seeking to combat this scourge the administration had best bear that in mind. Banning booze with­out addressing the real problems would be the equivalent of giving a cancer patient some Tylenol. 
Chris Kratovil's is junior from Flanner Hall. This week's column marks his sec­ond anniversary on The Observer's Viewpoint page . 
• QUOTE OF THE O.W 
"Hewas just a social 
drinker, but social every 
night_" 
-The Beautiful South 


Movie MoV\day
page 10 Monday, February 26, 1996 


Chan aims high but kicks low 
"Humble In the Bronx" 
** 
(out of four) 
Directed by Stanley Tong Starring Jackie Chan 

Synopsis: Jackie Chan is in New York (Vancouver?) for his uncle's wedding. No sooner has he slipped into bed when a desultory band of motorcycle fiends begins causing a ruckus outside his uncle's apartment. Jackie won't stand for this mischief intervening in their deviltry, he soon finds himself a group of villainous scum to combat. But these nasties are only the misguided bad guys. As the plot develops, a more nefarious criminal organization involves Jackie and the motorcycle gang in their twisted scam. ironically, they must now join forces to thwart the true evil in the Bronx ifany ofthem want to survive. 
Daddy: 
Few people would disagree with the assertion that nothing is better than a good Kung Fu movie. Malevolent and all-too conveniently idiotic villains chas­ing nimble and noble lads who spin and kick while completely incompetent lass­es melodramatically screech their implied support of the existent patriar­chal makeup of society; these are the ingredients of a full evening of cinematic entertainment. However, despite provid­ing its audience with a nauseating over­dose of these intrinsic elements, "Rumble in the Bronx" fails to scratch its mark in my personal pantheon of martial arts movies. This depressing verity leads Daddy to his second incon­testable declaration: there might be nothing more tedious to endure than a bad Kung Fu movie. 
All right, Daddy will admit it: he would rather sit through a marathon of Lee Van Cleef's and that annoying Van Patton boy's Ninja Master movies (or even perhaps another showing of "Rumble in the Bronx") than witness Disney's cheap attempt to cash in on the talking pig mania that's sweeping our fine nation: a film better known as "Gordy." Unfortunately, my fine-feath­ered friends, do not allow this statement to justify the alloca­tion of your funds for Jackie Scam's latest installment in a seemingly endless tirade of immature kick-fests. No, save your dollars and rent some of Jackie's other offerings, or treat yourself nicely and find a copy of the Seven Samurai. At least some of these alterna­tives contain a thread of narrative, a bit of plot that saves them from / sinking to · "Rumble's" level, a movie that provides an atmo­sphere tanta­
mount to a Tae Kwon Doe meet for seven-year­olds. 
At . this point, I am sure that some folks are wondering why Daddy is just a bit saltier than usual. Well, I 

can safely say that my ire is due com­pletely to the disappointment I am now feeling. Jackie's other endeavors, while still built around his incredible physical talents, provided at least a vaguely interesting story. In a movie with such laudable choreography, even the smallest inkling of plot can only complement the already impressive action sequences. It is a pity that "Rumble in Canada" fails to attain this mixture and becomes a vacuous series of somersaults and bloody noses with all the dra­matic power of a school yard brawl where the antagonists speak only in dubbed cliches and rather pedes­trian zingers. As much as it pains me to say, those who read this column would be smarter than the average bear if they just waited for the next Segal movie to come along in order to sate their appetites for insipid 
violence. 
Fatman: 

Not even the bitterest person inhabiting this planet could despise "Humble in the Bronx." But we must remember that Daddy is not human and his commentary spills forth from the nether regions of cyni­cism. I did not find the vacuity of the film overwhelming, 
though I must admit my all-too-human brain tuned out during the film and my stimulus-response, bust-some-heads­and-break-some-hearts attention span guided my way through Chan's endless action sequences. 
"Rumble in the Bronx" made no pre­tensions about having a plot. Its dia­logue was intentionally cliched and sounded like a high school exercise in screen writing. But this doesn't matter. Watching a movie like this is like watch­ing pro-wrestling or Notre Dame foot­ball: you don't need to think since the entire event has been staged by a large institution to soothe you into a state of cheery complacency. All that "Rumble in the Bronx" asks you to do is to sit back and watch some good old violence on the big screen. In Texas, we don't need no movies; we just need a pair of boots, tight jeans, a cattle prod, and a bunch of puppies to have a good time. 
As Daddy pointed out, parts of the movie hardly even pretended to be filmed in New York. This is all part of the fun. The dialogue is bad, the settings are horrible, and the fight sequences are something out of a G.I. Joe cartoon. But that's what makes it so amusing. To criticize plot, or style, or character development would be to miss the point. You just need to watch the film and play along with the action. Jackie Chan doesn't want to teach you anything ter­ribly profound; he just wants to show how he can kick anyone's behind that he wants to. Thus, he spends almost the entirety of "Humble in the Bronx" twirling, kicking, and punching bad guys like a man possessed (or on frozen am­phetamines). ~o. if you want to be enter­tained with violence and jackassery that plays only with your stimulus-response system, then take in Jackie Chan's lat­est. If not, join us in our unending battle to close the gap between the classes and overthrow this corporate oligopoly. 
Fatman and Daddy are John Zach and Scott Bozik. 


x-----------------------­
~~~[3[K}lJ @@[3~ lJ@ lJC{] [3 @~~~[M~ 
(AND ALL OF ND AND SMC ARE INVITED, TOO!) 
Okay, the benevolent gods at Accent have granted all of you a second chance. We are rerunning our ultra-cool Oscar Contest entry form. If you can guess more correct winners than anyone else, you'll receive a $10 gift-certificate. to Cinemark Movies 10 Theater. CLIP, GUESS, WIN! Oh yeah, and send it to Accent Oscar Contest, c/o The Observer, ·314 LaFortune sometime before the Oscars. (In the case of a tie, a drawing will be held.) One entry per person. Observer employees, their families, their pets and imaginary friends are ineligible. 
Name ______________________________ 
Dorm 

Phone ---------------­

B EST DIRECTOR B EST ACTHESS B E S T ACT 0 H 0 Tim Hobbins: "Dead Man Walking" 0 Emma Thompson: "Sense and Sensibility" 0 Massimo Troisi: "II Postino" 0 Chris Newman: "Babe" 0 Elisabeth Shue: "Leaving Las Vegas" 0 Richard Dreyfuss: "Mr. Holland's Opus" ~ 0 Michael Radford: "II Postino" 0 Meryl Streep: "Bridges of Madison County" 0 Sean Penn: "Dead Man Walking" 
~ 
0 Mel Gibson: "Braveheart" 0 Susan Sarandon: "Dead Man Walking" 0 Nicolas Cage: "Leaving Las Vegas" 0 Mike Figgis: "Leaving Las Vegas" 0 Sharon Stone: "Casino" 0 Anthony Hopkins: "Nixon" 
BEST SUPPORTING ACTHESS BEST SUPPORTING ACTOR B EST PICTURE 
r 

0 Kathleen Quinlan: "Apollo 13" 0 Ed Harris: "Apollo 13" 0 "Braveheart" 0 Kate Winslet: "Sense and Sensibility" 0 Tim Roth: "Rob Roy" 0 "II Postino" 0 Mare Winningham: "Georgia" 0 Kevin Spacey: "The Usual Suspects" 0 "Babe" 
J t 
~ 
0 Joan Allen: "Nixon" 0 James Cromwell: "Babe" 0 "Apollo 13" 0 Mira Sorvino: "Mighty Aphrodite" 0 Brad Pitt: "12 Monkeys 0 "Sense and Sensibility" 

Movie MoV\day
Monday, February 26, 1996 page I I 
• 

• SOAP OPERA UPDATES 
Days of Our Lives 
T
alk about bad luck! Who else could crash into the ocean on the way to tell Victor of Vivian's evil plan. be picked up by fishermen, be forced to cut fish, escape, wash up on an island, and then be found by two freaks who have no idea how to get off the island? Poor. poor Kate. Fortunately, the woman freak remembered that she had a telephone -apparently, on this island, phone wires are not a necessity. Kate made the phone call that should have ended her year of torture, but who answered the phone? Victor's new love slave, Vivian. Thn con­nection was bad, but Vivian thought she recognized Kate's voice. 
Although Kate is vying for recognition as Days' eharacter with the worst luck, John is currently in the lead. He has had two stays of execution this week alone, and is still set to die on Monday. Thanks to an obscure law, the judge was able to over­ride the governor's orders to delay the exeeution, as per Stefano's orders. Luckily, John has Kristen, who is always a beacon of hope. She visited Father Francis, who hiL'> been in a coma for months but was awakened by Kristen's beauty. Unfortunately, he was only able to mutter "Tony." Kristen returned to John to spend his last few moments together. 
While Kristen's attempts to help John may have been futile, Marlena was finally able to get Tony's diary. She lured Stefano into his bedroom with promises of sex. {A plan she resorted to after the old start-a-fire-and-when-Stefano-runs-to-check-it­out-grab·the-diary scheme failed.) When Stefano left to answer a conveniently timed doorbell, Marlena was able to hand off the diary to the Lady-in-white. Cool, calm, and collected as the Lady-in-white is known to be, she promptly tripped. She stopped in the forest to say, "I must find this man named Abe," and then took off running straight into a picnic table. Luckily, Jennifer and Jack came along and picked up the diary. Later, back in Stefano's bedroom, he notieed the door slightly open, saw the table next to his bed, and realized the diary had been taken when Marlena was left alone. 
Meanwhile, Hope continued her struggle with Jude. After her fever finally broke. she attempted to appeal to Jude's good side. She said she knew he had some good in him and begged him to let her go. But Jude's visions of her in lingerie were too strong and tempting; he handcuffed her back to the bed. Hope still believed Bo would come for her, but when Jude showed her an article in the paper that said the search was called off, she began to doubt if Bo would ever save her. Bo has made the decision to have a memorial service for I lope, but he still has a t'eeling she may be alive. This decision carne after 11 woman he saved during a gang bust had a baby and named her Hope. 
Lexy is still trying to find out the identity of her father. Celeste refuses to tell and Stefano has no idea. In fact, the father never even knew Celeste had a child. Things are looking hopeless, but Lexy will find her father eventually. 
-Erin Kelsey and Christina Ftiscar 
General Hospital · 
Y
es, GH fans, Justus and Simone are still split apart. And if that is not bad enough, there is. a petition going around, 
citing Justus' associations with Sonny. defending Katherine, the whole Sigmund episode, and his rolalion to the Q family as reasons to kick him off City Council. 
As for Justus' cousin and the rest of the Port Charles Foundation crew, they are all still worried about Jason. Keesha is furious, telling Robin how this new Jason is destroying every­thing the old Jason values. Neither Hobin, the queen of' sweet­ness, nor Keesha, princess of tears, knows how to handle the situation, although Robin is opting to keep her distance; she feels Jason's pressured enough as is. 
Meanwhile, AJ is hitting the bottle again (and this was the boy who insisted to Kevin he did not need to be in rehab). He showed up at the gatehouse drunk, and he and Ned yelled at each other about the accident. It did not come out that AJ was actually the driver and that he was wasted at the time, but it did spark Lois' interest. When Lois asked why hfl was hard on AJ, all Ned would say was his "drinking was responsible for Jason's accident." She is still confused. As for Brenda and Lois' scheme to get Jax off of Lois' back and make Sonny jealous, well, it is working fairly well. Brenda is wining and dining the gorgeous Jax, flaunting it in Sonny's face all the while. 
Meanwhile, Sonny, supposedly so in love with his beautiful wife Lily, is not handling it well; he sent a decoy limo to pick Brenda up for a flying date with Jax, so that she, thinking it was Jax's limo, missed Jax. Lois worries this thing is going too far and Brenda is going to get hurt; Ned is worriAd that all Jax really wants is ELQ. 
Speaking of Sonny, Jax, and the wonderful world of orga· nized crime, Lucky is getting himself in over his head with gambling. He is playing with the big boys now, and with Luke in San Antonio and Laura in class all the time, Lucky has zero supervision (Lucky can fend for himself', but I want to know who is watching Lulu?). He is enthralled with the rush of win· ning at cards. 
Luke. Kevin, Mac, and Lucy are still in San Antonio, trying to lure Damien into their trap to clear Katherine's good name {many times when watching the dynamic trio, I wonder why they just don't call the cops? Would not that be more efft~ctive in proving Damien is alive?) Lucy is made a show of flaunting her spandex-clad body around the spa, and Luke, as Sam Cash. has made it a point to tell Damien she is alone. 
Mac and Kevin, as Norma and Eve, caught Damien's "troops" {two very large, scary looking women that make Norma and Eve look like beauty queens) bugging Lucy's room. They made up some excuse and left in a hurry. Later, however, one of them saw Kevin lift his wig to wipe the sweat off his brow, and ran to tell Damien that Lucy's traveling companions were of the testosterone kind. An infuriated Damien demands them to get Lucy alone for him. Locking Norma and Eve in the sauna, they happily present Lucy to Damien. 
-Jennifer Rubow 


Valerie Sayers brings a wealth of diverse exj)eriences to Notre /)arne and her readers across the nation . 
By MIKEJACCARINO 
Aucnt W1itn 
B
ark in thosP days, slw might havn met him; slw might haw looknd into his eyes. Tlwrn is no way to say for sun~. among tlw shift­ing fan•s in tlu• rongrngation of Washington Squan~ l'ark and thn many after-thnatt~r crowds slw watdwd swarm in tlw streets, but Valerie SayPrs may very WPII havt~ nncountnrml Timothy lloonPy somPwlwrn hPtWtHHl tlw ebony-colon~d hrownstorws of NPw York City's Grnenwieh Villagn. 
Valerie Sayers, Notrn l>anw Creative Writing professor and author of the recently published novtd "Brain h~VPr," was once much liktl those slw watdu•d, a parishioru~r in tlw congregation of Washington Squan~ Park. While "writing like a fool" from hPr Brooklyn apartment, the Fordham Univmsity graduate taught creative writing at NPW York University, locatt~d in the lwart of <;remtwirh Village. It was here that she would log tlw t~XpPrienctlS which would later rtlappear as tlw stage for the ventures or Timothy Hoorwy, the protagonist of her latest work. 
Slw lwgan lwr Nnw York sojourn as a seven­tPPn-ynar-old natiVtl or a small South Carolina town, snPking a dt~grne from Fordham. It was 
'Jn a way, the book is about com­ing to tnrms with my own rnsponsibilities.' 
Valerie Sayers 

during lwr yPars in Nnw York that a lifnlong courtship for lwr !wart would btl deeided: Valerie Sayers, once a psychology major, would bt~ a life­long writnr. "I avoided it as long as possibln, for it's such a lorwly nxistnnct~. hut I knew I had to. It is a way of dtdining yourself which overtakes your !wing," slw PXplains four books later, now a rnsidt>nt of South Bend and an established novel­isl. 
Although Sayers is now a motlwr and at peace with lu~r craft. Llw soul slw bestowed upon the 
The Observer/Brandon Candura 
eharaeter of Timothy Hooney reveals that the memories of her independent nights in New York still breathe softly among the ghosts of her con­scious. Confronted with the responsibilities of marriage. fatherhood, and the spirituality of his wife, Hooney takes flight from his Midwestern honw, f'leeing until his arrival in Greenwich Village. Sayers poignantly shares how Hooney's flight in some ways rdlects her own crises. "Everyone gets sick once in a while of what they see and go through in life, but we don't get to run off to New York as Tim does. In a way, the book is about coming to terms with my own responsibilities," she says. For the author, it snmns that the book has allowed sleep to finally touch the eyes of those lingering ghosts which still haunt with tidings of harrowing Village nights and the fleeting indnpendence of youth. 
Hooney's venture to New York also represents a journey into the human consciousness, a search from which he will emerge with a palpa­ble form of himself rather than the silhouette he began with. Sayers refers to Hooney's experi­enee as "an overblown mid-life crisis" which sig­nifies for most a period of searching and reflec­tion. In an allusion to Christ's forty-day desert sojourn, which many interpret as the time when lie came to terms with his calling, Hooney's jour­ney is also forty days. During this period, as he sfmrches among the bars of Greenwich Village, Hooney sheds all the responsibilities which had previously defined him, rendering Sayers free to explore the nature of the naked human spirit and soul, now fn~e of society's bindings. 
Another interest of Sayers is unveiled in Hooney's fiance's request that he do something about the horrors occurring in Hosnia­llerzogovina at the time. "I wrote this at the height of ethnic cleansing," says the author, "and intended it to address what it means to be human in society. How far do our responsibilities extend? To family,community, wars thousands of miles away." The initial reaction of Hooney, who was raised in a family very sensitive to human suffering, and the reactions of others in the book paint a vivid picture of human nature. "It's always a ehoice in life, with love on one end and darkness on the other, and people are always surprising themselves, for better or worse. I didn't think I knew where the ending was going, until I got there," Sayers explains, leaving her listener wondering whether she is referring to the book or her own life. 
Spying her family picture and her five books lined neatly on the shelf above, one would have to think that if Sayers was referring to the latter, she had made the correct choices. Yet one still might wonder if, somewhere in an intimate Greenwich Village night years ago, Sayers met and looked into the eyes of someone who was searehing...and had a little help in learning the way to go. 
... 
-
page 12 The Observer • SPORTS Monday, February 26, 1996 
• HOCKEY 
No post-season hope, but there's always next year . • • 
Notre Dame out ofplayoffpicture after loss to Bowling.Green 
By MIKE DAY 
Spores Writer 
The battle is over, and only the casu· alties remain. 
If the Notre Dame hockey team really did have a pulse in the biggest game of the s·eason, it certainly would have come as a shock to the coroner. Not to mention the Irish faithful. 
After a tiring and frustrating run, the Notre Dame hockey team's quest for the final seed in the CCHA playoffs came to an end Saturday night as Bowling Green rolled to a suprisingly easy 8-2 victory. 

The Irish defeated Miami of Ohio 5-2 on Friday to remain in the playoff hunt, but Bowling Green capitalized on sever­al Notre Dame breakdowns to dash all hopes of a postseason appe.arance. 
"It's especially disappointing for the seniors not to have made the playoffs in our final year," said defenseman Jeremy Coe. "I felt hopeful in that we were more talented than ever, but we just seemed to lack consistency throughout the year." 
Indeed, Notre Dame's now trademark style of inconsistent play was apparent once again on Saturday. After playing the Falcons off their feet for the entire first period, the Irish allowed Bowling Green to turn a 2-1 nailbiter into a 8-2 Iaugher within the span of less than two periods, 
"There was a span where they couldn't do anything wrong, and we couldn't do anything right," said fresh­man right wing Brian Urick. "They looked like a different team from the first time we played them. It was Senior Night at their arena, and they played with a lot of confidence and emotion." 
If there was a sour.ce of life on Notre Dame's corpselike body, it came cour­tesy of defenseman Garry Gruber. The senior defender scored the squad's only two goals in doing his best to make up for an anemic performance by the Irish offense. 
Notre Dame looked like a completely different team just one night earlier at Miami of Ohio. Busting out of the gates like never before, the Irish cruised to a 3-0 lead en route to a 5-2 victory. 
"We were up and down this weekend, and that pretty much was the same throughout the year," said junior center Tim Harberts. 
"We play really weB one night and then struggle the next night. It is frus­trating that we couldn't maintain any kind of consistency!' 
Despite being outshot 37-21 by the Redskins, the Irish were never seriously challenged after building the 3-0 advantage, thanks largely to the play of goaltender Matt Eisler. The sophomore goalie recorded 35 saves to help Notre Dame keep their bleak playoff hopes alive. 
Urick, defenseman Benoit Cotnoir, right wing Brett Bruininks, left wing Aniket Dhadphale, and left wing Steve Noble each scored one goal apiece but were unable to duplicate their perfor· mance the following night against the Falcons. 
"It's disappointing to have not made the playoffs, but I expected it would take time for us to get used to Coach Poulin's system," said Urick. "We had problems all year long, but that's to be expected fr6m a team that is learning under a new coach." 
Maybe that is to be expected. But then again, maybe it's just another addition to Notre Dame's long list of excuses. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. ar 309 Haggar College Center. 
Classifieds Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
NOTICES  NATIONAL PARKS HIRING­Positions are now available at  ALUM WANTS TO BUY OR TRADE  Waterfront Condos  Lewis Hall Grab 'n Go bags will be on sale 2/26&2/27 in both  Sir, Commander Skywalker hasn't come in through the  
National Parks, Forests & Wildlife  ND FOOTBALL MEMORABILIA •  1 Bedrooms from $52.000  dining halls. Don't miss out on  south entrance. He might  
SPRING BREAK!  Preserves. Excellent benefits +  (TIC STUBS/PROGRAMS, ETC.)  2 Bedrooms from $80,000  chocolate chip granola bars!  have forgotten to check in.  
With only 1 week to live, DON'T  bonuses! Call: 1-206-971-3620  2773097  New Decor  Not likely. Are the speeders  
BLOW IT!  ext.N55845  EVERYTHING included  IF I WERE A FISH  ready?  
Organize group-TRAVEL FREE  Close to Notre Dame  AND HAD ONE WISH  Not yet. We're having some  
Jamaica/Cancun $399 Bahamas $359 Florida $109  TEACH ENGLISH ABROAD -Make up to $25-$45/hr. teaching  FOR RENT  BEAUTIFUL! NORTH SHORE CLUB  I'D WISH FOR A PET LIKE LUCAS  trouble adapting them to the cold.  
FREE INFO packet. Call Sunsplash  basic conversational English  232-2002  Then we'll have to go out on  
1-800-426-7710  abroad. Japan, Taiwan, and  IRISH CO. B&B REGISTRY  Calif. actress-writer wife & photog­ Tauntauns.  
S.Korea. Many employers provide  Stay at the "MOOSE KRAUSE  rapher husband wish to adopt new­ Sir, the temperature's drop­ 
Spring Break Bahamas Party Cruise! 7 Days $279! Includes 15  room & board +other benefits. No teaching background or Asian lan·  HOUSE" or other approved homes. Grad. -Football games  TICKETS  born. Will provide love, nurturing environ., educ., financial security.  ping too rapidly. That's right. And my friends  
Meals & 6 Free Parties! Great  guages required. For more informa­ 219-277-7003  Hollywood Hills home has large  out in it.  
Beaches/Nightlife! Leaves From Ft.  tion call: (206)971·3570 ext.J55843  FOR SALE: 2 TIX FOR OASIS  back yard and loving dog. Call  I'll cover sector twelve.  
Lauderdale! http://www.spring·  FEB. 27 @ THE RIVIERA  818/241-5535 collect. Legal &  Have com-control set screen  
breaktravel.com 1-800-678-6386  GENERAL ADMISSION  Confidential.  alpha.  
SUMMER WORK!!  ROOMS FOR RENT IN PRIVATE  $20 EACH, CALL LISA X2386  Your Tauntaun'll freeze  
Cancun & Jamaica Spring Break  Landscaping  HOME.  Dinner sometime soon? I said I was  before you reach the first  
Specials! 111% Lowest Price  VERY CLOSE TO ND.  WANTED: BIG EAST&FINAL  sorry...  marker.  
Guarantee! 7 Nights Air & Hot~l  Spend your summer landscaping  IDEAL FOR SMC-ND EVENTS.  FOUR TICKETS. WILL PAY$$$.  Then I'll see you in hell!  
From $429! Save $100 On  with Fath Management Company,  272-6194.  CALL DAYS (800)444-8425. EVE  
Fo6d/Drinks! http://www.spring­ one of the largest property manage­ (908)536-3431  If you've been to more than 43  
breaktravel.com  ment firms in Greater Cincinnati.  BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY  dances, you caould win dinner for  Sorry Lucas .... had to continue the  
1·800-678-6386  Full-time positions available. Hours  219-291· 7153  two at Don Pablo's. Call Accent  tradition one more day. I thought it  
are M-F 8-4:30. No experience nec­essary. Dependability and reliable  HOMES FOR RENT  PERSONAL  631-4540 by March 1.  was appropriate.  
Spring Break! Panama City! 8 Days  transportaion required. Interested  232-2595  
Room With Kitchen $119! Walk to  candidates should apply at Aspen  0o0o0o0o0o0o0o0o0o0o0  Don't forget to fill out your Oscar  Hey Frank won't you pack your  
Best Bars! 7 Nights In Key West  Village Apartments, 2703 Erlene  QUALITY COPIES, QUICKLY!!!  Poll in Accent Today. If you win,  bags  
$259! Cocoa Beach Hilton (Great  Drive, or call 662-3724 for an  Old studebaker home.  THE COPY SHOP  you get free movie tickets!  And meet me tonight down at  
Beaches-Near Disney) $169!  appointment.  new interior, close to downtown.  LaFortune Student Center  Liberty Hall  
Daytona $139! http://www.spring­ Pre-employment Drug Screen  safe, 4 bdrm, 2 story. Perfect for 3·  Phone 631-COPY  Just one kiss from you my brother  
breaktravel.com.  Required.  4 students+ appl. $625/ mo. 289·  0o0o0o0o0o0o0o0o0o0o0  RIP Ditka.  And we'll ride until we fall  
1-800-678-6386  Fath Management Company  77281v msg  I'll miss you.  We'll sleep in the fields  
E.O.E  Tim Corbett.  Love, Krista.  we sleep by the rivers  
For anyone interested, the  and in the morning we'll make a  
Morrissey FilmFest is currently  plan  
accepting student films. For more  $ Cruise Ships Hiring! Students  NEED A PLACE FOR THE SUM­ YOU could be the next  Lucas is a lazy bumb now. All he  Well if you can't make it  
information, call Andy at X3501.  Needed! $$$+Free Travel  MER? COLLEGE PARK CONDO·  contestant on Pangborn Hall's  does is have a social life.  Stay hard, stay hungry stay alive, if  
[LosT & FOUND I  (Caribbean, Europe, Hawaii!) Seasonal/Permanent, No Exper. Necessary. GDE. 919-929-4398 ext  MINIUMS-SUBLETIING FOR MID-MAY THROUGH AUGUST. CALL JEN, NICOLE, OR SARAH  THE PRICE IS RIGHT! Sat. March 2 Stepan 7:00 pm  We hate you Lucas.  you can And meet me in a dream of this hard land  
C1114  AT 273-1738  ??WANT TO GET INVOLVED??  I'm sorry Joe. I really am. I had it all  
LOST  Recyclin' Irish is looking for some  planned out. Tyler, Lucas, a little  
Wanted: Student skilled in the use  dedicated people to act as officers  spam. I'm sorry.  Happy Birthday Dan Murray  
NAVY BLUE BLAZER, SIZE 41L  of computers to teach computer  for the 96-97 year. Application  
techniques to unskilled computer  2 BDR APT@ COLLEGE PARK  forms are available at , and must be  I miss Joe Marzano  
at ALUMNI-KNOTI FORMAL  user. May work some nights and  FOR RENT FOR THE SUMMER  returned to, 222 Admin. Bldg  What is this Nannery girl babbling  He can shake it  
on 2/9 at Senior Bar  weekend. Joseph L. Matthews,  ONLY.  (Purchasing Dept.) Forms are due  about?  Narcoleptic. pass the bottle.  
If you have it, or informtion about it ,  home phone 288-2978, office  BEST OFFER! (2,3 OR 4 PEOPLE)  2/28/96 by 5:00 PM for the offices  pizza at 4 p.m. for breakfast?  
please call Brian x 1173  phone 288·0629.  CALL SARAH OR JILL X2907  of Pres, VP, Sec, Treas.  what a cute man he is. so cute in  
Oh. Well, Princess Leia  his class of 97 !-shirt.  
WANTED  Call (219)282·3518. Free information.  Hey single guys and girlsl Have you watched MTV's Singled Out  is wondering about Master Luke. He hasn't  pacers. pacers. pacers.  
Earn money from your dormitory  Room For Rent  and pictured yourself in the winner's  come back yet. She  and Larry Bird IS homegrown, so  
ND/SMC/Holy Cross Students  room!  Nice Neighborhood. $300/mo.  circle? If so, come be a part of  doesn't know where he  don't  
Part-time work. $10.25/start.  255-9005  Notre Dame's own version by join·  is.  talk about him like that. you'd give  
Flexible hours around classes. All  ing our dating pool. Stop by the  I don't know where he  my daddy a heart  
majors. Scholarships/Internships.  PART-TIME PROFESSIONAL  LaFortune Info desk between  is.  attack.  
CALL 282-2357.  SECRETARY  THE POTATO HOUSE 8 BED­ Monday, Feb. 26-Thursday, Feb. 29  Nobody knows where  
COMPUTER LITERATE  ROOM FOR NEXT SCHOOL YEAR  and fill out a contestant question­ he is.  Rata-·  
....  SUMMER JOBS  SUSAN 271-8376  ALSO 3-4 BEDROOM HOMES CLOSE TO ND GOOD AREA  aire. So get ready to strut your stuff on March 281  What do you mean, "nobody knows"?  Te amo como un hermano. Lo siento .  
ALL LAND/WATER SPORTS  Catholic Church vocation informa·  2773097  Well, uh, you see ...  
PRESTIGE CHILDERN'S CAMP ·  lion available at:  Deck Officer. Deck Officer!  Ron is such an angel the devil runs  
ADIRONDACK MOUNTAINS  http://members.aol.com/frjohnr/html  LIVING OFF-CAMPUS NEXT  Excuse me, sir. Might I inqu­ and hides in his presence.  
NEAR LAKE PLACID 1-800· 786-8373  /voc1.html God has important work for you to  FOR SALE  YEAR? VOTE ALEX SAKSEN/MIKE  ... Yes, sir? Do you know where  Greg, why do you read a book  
do!  SWEENEY FOR  Commander Skywalker is?  about golf when you don't even  
CRUISE SHIPS NOW HIRING­ FOR SALE· MACINTOSH APPLE  OFF-CAMPUS CO-PRESIDENTS!  I haven't seen him. It's pos­ have your shoes around? Let's go  
Earn up to $2,000+/month working  POWERBOOK 520C, only 2·3  sible he came in through the  buy some.  
on Cruise Ships or Land-Tour com­ ALASKA EMPLOYMENT-Students  months old, includes Clarisworks  The Saint Mary's Editor is looking  south entrance.  
panies. World travel. Seasonal &  Needed! Fishing Industry. Earn up  4.0 software and a COLOR STYLE·  for a sports, news , day, and photo  It's possible? Why don't you  Icing happen when the puck come  
full-time employment available. No  to $3,000-$6,000+ per month.  WRITER 2400 PRINTER. Only  editors  go find out? It's getting dark  down, bang, you know, before de  
experience necessary. For more  Room and Board! Transportation!  $1500 o.b.o. For more info. call  for next year. Submit a resume and  out there.  udder guys, nobody dere, you  
information call 1-206-971-3550  Male or Female. No experience  Jarvis @ X2159  application ·  Yes, sir.  know, and my goes comes up, den  
ext.C55843  necessary. Call (206)971·3510  to Carolin e Blum by March 1  Excuse me, sir. Might I  da game stop and start up.  
extA55844  Questions? Call 284-4349 or  inquire what's going on?  
JUDAY CREEK gem.  631-4540.  Why not?  Dave Bradley is depressed. Call  
BIG EAST TICKETS WANTED  Anthony Travel, Inc. looking for  Well-maintained, 4-bedroom ranch  Impossible man. Come  him at 273-0391 to cheer him up.  
part-time student assitance.  with a 17 x 25 home office  Knott Hall Casino Night is coming!!  along, Artoo, lets find  
TOP$$$ PAID  Approx. 1 0 hours/week. Stop by  & 3-car garage.  Get Friendly With Your Favorite  Princess Leia. Between our­ Greg Bieg needs a partner for a  
our office in LaFortune or call 631·  $154,900.  Knott Angel To Get An Invitation!  selves, I think Master Luke is  mean game of solataire. Call him  
(800)269-5849  7080 and ask for Mary or Pat.  Call Karen 272-3653.  Saturday, 3/2 8:00pm  in considerable danger.  for details.  


MonJay, february 26, I996 The Observer· SPORTS page 13 
• WOMtN'S BASKETBAll 
Notre Dame improves, still can't get over hump 
Wolters still the difference as UConn withstands numerous Irish rallies, red-hot shooting 


Join us in meeting 
Chris Zorich 
ofthe Chicago Bears featured speaker at 
The Great LOGAN Nose-On Luncheon 

For ticket information contact LOGAN Center at 289-4831 
LOGAN 
Celebrating a Tradition of Service to People with Developmental Dilliullies 
f.·. .·.·.·.·.·,•,•,•,•,•.·,•,•,•,•.....·.·.·.·.·.•.·,·.·=·.•.•,•,•,•,•,•,•,•,•,•,•,•,•,•,•,•.•,·.·.·.·.·.·.·=·.•.•,•,•,•,•,•.....•.•,•,•,•,•,•,·.·.·.·:·.•,•.•,·,•.•,•,•.•,•,•,•,•,•,•,•,•,•,•,•,•,•,•,•,•,•,•,•:1 
Hours/Commitment 
Internships Require 
Applications Available Applications Due 
better. Notre Dame dropped both games, 10-9 against Wisconsin and 2-1 to Indiana. Both attempts were valiant ef­
The Center for Social Concerns 
forts. In fact, in the Wisconsin
Invites Applications for 

game, the team came back from a six run delicit, but the Irish could not quite get the. 
' 

Student Internships 
ATTEIITIOII 
For the 1996-97 Academic Year 

SOPHOIIORES!! 
Approx. 10 hours per week Plus participation in reflection, academic meetings Applications for the JPW 1997 
Irish fall in Arizona State Classic 
By TIM MCCONN say the least," said Kelly Spores Writer Nichols. "It wa!). definitely an ordeal." 
The Notre Dame softball team The first game was Friday had a rough go of it this week­morning at 11, and the Irish end, to say the least. somehow pulled out a victory 
Problems and difficulties against Northwestern, 1-0. Jen drowned the Irish as they Giampaolo drove in the lone opened their season in the Irish run. Arizona State Classic. 
Before the games even start­However, it was all downhill ed, the Irish knew they were from there. Following this going to be in for a tough time opening victory, the Irish in the Valley of the Sun. dropped three in a row. They 
lost to host Arizona State 11-2. 
After being delayed because The team was fatigued from of fog, the team finally made it their lack of rest, and it to the Windy City, only to find showed. out they had missed their Along with giving up 11 hits, connecting flight to Arizona. In Notre Dame committed a whop­order to rectify the situation, ping 6 errors. The only thing the squad had to split up. Half keeping them going seemed to the team arrived in Arizona be adrenaline. around 2 in the morning, while "Before the game, the day the rest did not get there until seemed to drag on and on. We almost 4:30. To make matters were completely out of synch," worse, they were not greeted said Nichols. "It was really by the luxuries of a hotel, but bad." . had to stay in private host Giampaolo went 2-2 with a homes. run scored and a walk, while 
"It was a crazy weekend, to Jenna Knudson and Korrie Allen drove in the 2 Irish runs. The second day was not much 
gods in their favor. Their six­inning rally came up short, but they showed some positive signs of life. 
"We hit the ball well," com­mented Nichols, who doubled in the loss to the Badgers. "All I can say is that it just wasn't falling our way. They got the breaks and we didn't." 
Knudson had an RBI single by driving in Meghan Murray to tie the Indiana game 1-1, but they could not catch the Hoosiers late in the contest. 
Angela Bessolo took the loss­es in the Northwestern and Wisconsin games, while Joy Battersby did so in the Indiana game. 
By starting off the season 1-3, many have already labeled the campaign a washout. The Irish beg to differ. 
"I think we're glad to get this [losing streak] out of our way," said Nichols. "Now we know what it's like to be at the bot­tom, and we don't want to be here again." 
The Irish definitely have plen­ty to work on as the season starts rolling along. They know that the circumstances were loaded against them this week­end, but they are not using this as an excuse. 
Said Nichols, "We could make excuses if we wanted to, but we're not. We've just got to move on." 
By TODD FITZPATRICK 
Sports Writer 
More prnpared. More intense. More focused. 
The Irish were all of these things in their second match-up with Connecticut, hut they wore not victorious. The Notre Dame women's basketball team fought valiantly this Saturday, but fell to No. 3 Connecticut H6-71J. 
This effort on the road against the dllfnnding national champions was a much bettnr nfTort than the H7 -64 loss over onn month ago at the Joyce Center. The Irish improved in virtually every facnt of the game despite playing this time before a sellout crowd in Connecticut. 
"I enjoyed playing in this type of envi­ronment," commented Irish guard Beth Morgan. "This was a great opportunity for us. I'm not happy with the final out­come of the game. We came expecting to win." 
Connecticut's 6-7 center Kara Wolters burned the Irish once again by shooting 66 percent from the field to score 27 points. 
Early in the contest, Notre Dame built a four point lead when freshman Sheila, McMillen nailed a three-point basket. For the next several minutes, the lead changed hands several times. · 
Much of the early success came 
because of the two leading Irish scorers, Morgan and Katryna Gaither. Morgan scored 13 first half points and finished thfl game with 23. Gaither contributed 12 points in the first half and finished with 22. 
After the midway point of the first half, the Huskies gradually extended their lead. At halftime, the Irish trailed 50-41. 
"I thought Connecticut played a great game and shot the ball really well in the first half," said Notre Dame head coach Muffet McGraw. "We played well of­fensively, but we definitely had some breakdowns in the first half which allowed them to shoot the ball so well." 
With just under ten minutes remaining in the second half, Connecticut's Nykesha Sales sank two free throws to give her team a game-high 13 point lead. Notre Dame answered with a rally to pull within 81-77 on Gaither's layup with 1:10 remaining. But two key bas­kets by Sales and Wolters in the linal minute ended Notre Dame's upset bid. 
Notre Dame will play its last regular season game tonight at West Virginia. The Irish may have one more shot at Connecticut if they face each other in the Big East Tournament next weekend. 
The Associated Press contributed to this report. 
Center Interns will participate in Fall and Spring Leadership Issues Seminars, and receive a scholarship 
• 
Demonstrated experience in CSC Programs 

• 
Initiative 


• 
Creativity Monday, February 26, 1996 at the CSC Thursday, March 7, 1996 


Chairperson are available at the Lafortune lnforrnation oesk. Return cornpleted applications to 315 Lafortune, Student ActivitY office. 
The Deadline is Mon 28th. Si day, February h gn up for an interview 
w .en you turn in your 
application. In regards to
Areas of Focus for Center Internships • Multicultural Concerns 
• Research 

any questions. 
• Post Graduate Service 
f ... "·· ?? . '·'····'········..•,•,•,•,•,•,,•, ..... ,..•,,,•,•,,•,•.•.•,•,·.·.·.·.·.·,•,•,·,•.....·.•,•,•,•,•,•,•,•.•,•..•.•.·,·.·.·.·.·,•,•,•,•,•,•,•,•,•,•,•,•,•,•,•,•,•,•,•,•.•,•,•.•,•,•,·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.•.·.•.·,•,,•,•,•,•.•.•,•,•,•,•,•,•,•,•,•,•,•,•,•,•,•,•.•.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.···················1 
year were Thursday and 
(Saturday)," Wood said. 
"Defiance could have run us 
right out of our own gym, but 
we left it all on the court; we 
didn't save anything for next 
week or next year. We proved 
we could play with the best." 
Commemorating the end of 

Wood's career with flowers and 
fanfare before Saturday's 
game, players attributed the 
Belles' successes to playing for 
the best. 
Plunder 
continued from page 20 
Ryan Hoover. 
Hoover was instrumental in Notre Dame's second half turn­around after the Irish had gone into the break down 29-28 after shooting just 30 percent. 
Having been held scoreless in the first stanza, Hoover re­sponded with 18 second half points, including 1 0-of-11 free throw shooting. 
His biggest points came with 

7:06 left and the Irish down five following Pirate Danny Hurley's only three-pointer of the con­test. On the next possession, Hoover was fouled attempting a three-pointer of his own, and calmly sank the free throws. 
"The foul on the three-point shot in the corner was a big 
... 

page 14 Monday, February 26, 1996 
"No coach cares more about wanted to play front line, but guard Nicole Giffen wasjust his players than Coach Wood that was what was best for her. one player who capitalized on
Wood 
does," senior center Barb We Heeded he.r in the back that chance at the end of the continued from pag_e 20 Howells said. "We are like a court, and Jennie did ev·ery­season by becoming a stronger family. My friends who play thing we asked her to." leader on the court. 
winning season. 
Division I don't have this expe­While Taubenheim adjusted Throughout his career, Wood According to Wood, though 7­rience." well in the back court, her has relied on positive people in 16, the team did prove itself, Assistant Coach John Kovach move from the floor to the both winning and losing situa­particularly in its final week of also appreciated the personal bench was not as smooth. tions. Btilcause of the people he competition. 
element that Wood brought to Sidelined in the final weeks of has worked with at the College,
Although they lost both 

coaching the Belles. the season with a torn ACL, Saint Mary's will always be a 
games, the Belles contained 
"It has really been a great ex­Taubenheim's greatest chal­special place for him, Wood two ranked teams, Aurora and 
perience," Kovach said. lenge was watching the team said. 
Defiance, who averaged 100 "(Wood) has a story for every from the bench. Wood has a special place at and 94 points per game for the 
occasion in terms of illustrating "It was hard because I've SMC, as well, Colleen Andrews year respectively. 
his points. He promotes a fam­·never had to sit down before, added. 
"Our best efforts of the whole ily element." but I knew that I was still a "(Coach Wood's) enthusiasm 

Wood is only one member leaving the Belles' family this year. Saint Mary's also loses guards Colleen Andrews and Michelle Limb, forward Jennie Taubenheim, and Howells to graduation. 
"They are important to me because they are the last group I coached," Wood said. "I thank them for their time and energy, not for themselves but for the team." 
Taubenheim especially had to 
play," admitted Seton Hall coach George Blaney. "That got them to where they needed to be." 
"Hurley had just made a three and we needed to answer tha," said Hoover. "I got fouled and made the free throws. That was a key play because it was a time in the game when we needed to respond." 
Hoover's response sparked a 12-0 run by the Irish that gave them a lead they would never relinquish. 
After calling a timeout to curtail Notre Dame's momen­tum, Blaney instituted a press and was rewarded immediately by two Irish turnovers, cutting the lead to two with 4:04 left. 
However, Matt Gotsch sealed Seton Hall's fate on the next trip with one of his patented 'spider-jams' off a nice pass from Doug Gottlieb. 


The Obse!Ver/Cynthia Exconde 
After 44 years of coaching, MaNin Wood retired Saturday. 
be a team player this season. A true forward, Wood moved her to the back court because of a personnel shortage at those positions. According to Wood, Taubenheim had the best in­terests of the team in mind throughout her transition. 
"(Taubenheim) is one of the best front line players in the country," Wood said. "She 
"I saw the defense split to cover our shooters and I came down the middle in the trailer possession," said Gotsch. "Doug made a great feed and I just finished it." 
Gotsch saw significant action in the contest due to a thigh contusion suffered by Phil Hickey during the Providence game, and he made the most of it, contributing 10 points and six boards. 
Notre Dame's frontline benefitted from a concerted effort to take the ball to the basket aggressively. 
"We talked before the game about not taking the initiative on offense and settling for out­side shots," said Irish coach John MacLeod. "We were try­ing to drive in the first half but we couldn't get the ball to the rim. In the second, Derek's slam got us going." 
captain and I had to deep them up. Even though I wasn't out there with them, I think they felt my presence," Taubenheim said. 
Doctors expect Taubenheim to undergo surgery over spring break, with an eight-month re­habilitation beginning shortly after. 
Taubenheim's absence cre­ated an opportunity for the un­derclass to take up the slack. According to Howells, freshman is contagious," Andrews said. He is an example and a good role model, for people of any age." 
As for being the stuff legends are made of, Wood credits his success and longevity to the strong support of players, coaches, and family. 
"Life has been beautiful to me," Wood said. "The ball has taken a lot of good bounces for me, but I haven't made all the baskets. Other people did." 


The Observer 
is now accepting applications for thefollowing paidpositions: 
Saint Mary's News Editor Saint Mary's Sports Editor Saint Mary's Accent Editor Saint Mary's Assistant Editor Saint Mary's Photo Editor Saint Mary's Day Editor (2) 
Please submit a resume and one page personal statement to Caroline Blum by Friday, March 1st. Questions? call284-4349 or 631-4540 
The Notre Dame Marl~eting Club and the Advertising Educational Foundation present: 
Patricia A. Doyle: Director: of Global Strategy for IBM business worldwide for Ogilvy & Mather advertising agency. 
uThe Power of Persuasion: How Advertising Really Worl~s." 

Monday, February 26, 4:15 Jordan Auditorium, COBA 
Ogilvy and Mather also handles accounts for American Express, Kraft, Kimberly Clark, Hershey, and NYNEX. ALL MAJORS WELCOME 


~ --~
--~-----­
Monday, Fe~ruary 26, 1996 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 15 
'T 

Any Questions? Please call63l-4552 
Sign-Up Schedule 
Early $7.00fTEAM 
Tues Feb 27 6-9PM Thurs Feb 29 6-9PM 
Regular $J 0 •00/TEAM 
Sun March 3 11-4PM Man March 4 11-2PM 
6-9PM Tues March 5 Wed March 6 1OPM-?? 
Late $J5.00fTEAM 
Tues March 19 11-2PM 6-9pm Wed March 20 11-2PM 6-9pm 
Saint Mary's $JO.OOfTEAM 
Tues March 5 5-6PM Wed March 6 5-6PM 
see: HTTP: 



page 16 The Observer· BENGAL BOUT QUARTERFINALS Monday, February 26, 1996 

f"''••··-···--..
-~ 


·...........Fallel.®.tL. 
···········~
I.... 

.l!mJ1JJ)l1)~. ... ; ~jijwl) ; 
DlroiJ\T)W ....................... . ~Bal!!!'~~ -;~---· ; 
!·····~··-········--·-·""
~l!~.~-.!l<!!±c Pago¥liR5C:rlfliiJL . ~_,.~w.,r,..:~e/· :-I 
hlliii1111Nt~llillll'MViiii!.SG~•·IIle 


~....w••-•-•••-··•••'•••""""""""j 
Ti!!!W..~. ·····;;;-·] Co!!iEYI!ip•ll • 

!;~~~ -~--j·---------········--..···· 

i-~-­
I O!JB'/E;______-.1 
. ' 
..........................----· 
,. I'Oiro(RSC:~RIIJ)
.......................................... 
-'GM!t.l!'blllesllb'lilll 
·················································~_L__ 

~~.dF!!iFOidlet_· ! IIlli!.~~ 


ll!II.G.~..... [!'l___._. 
Mtlf\111'1ooi'•. 

~~~<:L~.­
~~~iii· 

\........IIail&j.llljoL 
BYE •••••.•.•••••••••••••.••.••..•....•.•.••.••.. 
_llltfllllat_)__ 
f!Ji.:~.!!l!l---­


~-----·. 
&1 ............ .! 
ll"f.~!:!i.'-! ......... . ._l'lill"~­
!fE____.___. 
,Jd!\~ .. 1~.:TI!!IP<!!~t!'i!tt 
Maestro Tsung Yeh, Music Director 
presents 
Zelda·~ du·zu/uj .9liupslclwfVI and 
{f/)e6o~..Ko~ff~ dopranr·~ 
Thursday, February 29th 7:30pm O'Laughlin Auditorium St. Mary's College 
featuring 
"A TOUCH OF CLASS" 

Bach: Concerto No.2 for Harpsichord in E major, BWV 1053 Haydn: Symphony No. 49 in F minor, "La passione" 


"'~ liAr(/,;.

Ey UNIORS ~rtuB~
···. ~\.J .. ~ 
~Nio·· 

student Apply for the 
manager 
and best job on 
bartender campus 
applications 
PICK APPLICATIONS UP AT now THE STUDENT ACTIVITIES OFFICE.
available! 
MANAGER DEADLINE: March 1 BARTENDER DEADLINE: March 27 
ATTENTION: WAYWARD '96 GRADUATES 
(UNDERGRADUATE AND GRADUATE) 
Notre Dame Volu.nteer Programme 
Jarrlaica 
Is Now accepting Applications for Volunteer Positions in Kingston, Jamaica 
POSITIONS ARE AVAilABLE FOR STUDENTS IN ANY DISCIPLINE 
• Business (MBA's)  • Religion  
• Science  • Engineering  
• Liberal Arts  

Check out the Application and detailed information at the Center for Social Concerns 
Deadline for Applications 
and interview sign-ups is 
• • 5:00 pm, Friday, • • 

Interviews will be conducted by appointment on Saturday, March 2nd 
Bouts 

continued from page 20 
pound victory over Brian Norton. Glennon is awaiting clearance from doctors to fight in Tuesday's semifinals. Leslie's fate, however, is sealed. 
"He's a scratch by the doc­tor's orders," Bengals Bouts coach Tom Suddes said. "That means (Bouts President Toby) Biolchini will move on." 
Only a few bouts, like senior Todd Murphy's loss to first­time boxer Erik Henderson, were surprises. 
Murphy, a returning finalist and the second seed in the 170­pound weight class, ran into a buzzsaw in Henderson, a lefty who was a relative unknown in the boxing gym since arriving in January. 
"He came out of nowhere," Biolchini said. "Nobody knew much about him because he didn't spar that much. But he fought a great fight." 
The senior showed patience that is uncharacteristic of a green boxer, trading jabs with Murphy for two close rounds before finally knocking him down with a strong left in the third. 
It was the final bout in an in­tense weight division, one that started with a close call for the top seed and captain, senior Bob Lalor. 
Lalor nearly suffered the same fate as Murphy, but es­caped with a recovery in the third round against first-time boxer Justin Malley. The two went punch for punch for the first two rounds before Lalor could land on combinations against the tired Malley. 
"Some of our bouts here today could very easily have been for the championship," Bengal Bouts coordinator Terry Johnson said. "(The Lalor­Malley and Henderson-Murphy bouts) were definitely a couple of them." 
Those fights were in the great minority, however. Only seven bouts were decided by a split decision, while eight were stopped by the referee before the final bell could sound. 
No knockouts could match the devastation of the first of the day, which was delivered by Matt Bardo! in the final fight of the 135-pound class. The senior's strong right hand left Dennis Joyce's legs a bit wob­bly, as the sophomore needed assistance leaving the ring. 


--------------~------~­
--~--------­

~l 

DO YOU WANT
ARE YOU 

TO IMPACJ SJUDENT
A 

LIFE AT
LEADERl 

NOTREDAMEl 
Applications are now available in the Student Government Office on the 2nd floor of LaFortune 
APPUCATIONS ARE DUE 
IRIDA~ MARCH 1 BY 5:00P.M. rn 
mill 


'
JOIN TEAM CONNECTION fAcnoN f[ll 

STUDENT GOVERNMENT 
CHEZ MARl~ 
thought 
Prof. Ma.ry Ke 
*'#' 
TucsdAy, Fc:br~ry Z7;~1:3,0 -~~. 
'If' ~ •
'L 
M.t.rit.t.in Center, 7l4 Hcsbui-CJlt LJ 
The Observer/Rob Finch 

Chris Sikora prepares to unload a right on Todd Mitchell in a 160-pound quarterfinal Sunday. 
Guts 
continued from page 20 
winced loudly immediately after the mishap. He tried to go a bit but eventually went over to have the ringside physician examine the shoulder. 
"Dr. Moriarity did some rudi­mentary tests on it and left it up to me to continue," Glennon explained. 
For most, a shoulder that rendered an arm useless prob­ably would've been cause to stop the fight. 
Not Glennon. 
·"I never really though about quitting," said Glennon, who fights in the 145 pound weight class. 
The fact that glennon was manhandling Subbiah was probably a good reason to con­tinue but Glennon's heart was obvious. 
"It was draining to use my left arm because every time I did the shoulder would pop in and out," Glennon said. 
Even though he was essen­tially fighting with one hand tied behind his back, the gutty Glennon had enough to pull out the decision. 
"It was frustrating because I saw opening for my left but I just wasn't able to take advan­tage of them." 
Subbiah, too let many chances pass. 
"He really didn't know what was going on, so he really wasn't able to take advantage like he could have," Glennon noted. 
Although the left side of his body was extremely vulnerable, the senior from Zahm Hall was able to defend well enough to keep Subbiah at bay. 
Assuming he is able to go on Tuesday, the task will surely get tougher, as defending champion Andy Dicello is on tap. 
''I'm going to have it checkP.d out and hope I get the go­ahead. But I expect to fight," Glennon said. 
After witnessing his effort yesterday, all in attendance would have to have the same expectations of Glennon. 
Glennon was not the only vic­tor who emerged worse for the wear. 
Joe Leslie, who defeated Brian Norton in a slugfest, broke his hand in the second round. 
It caused a bit of a dilema for the Zahm senior. 
"I figured it was better to get hit in the head than the hand so I kept it down," Leslie rational­ized. 

r----~-------------------------------------------------~~~-~--. 
page 18 The Observer· BENGAL BOUT QUARTERFINALS Monday, February 26, 1996 


"He caught me with some great punches," should have been seeded higher," Lalor said. 
r----------------------, r----------------------,
Unlimited TanningLalor said. "He stunned me in the first round, "But in a way, I'm glad I went through it 
1 Month Unlimited and the second round for that matter." because it helped my confidence and I now know Until March 10 
Tanning
for

what I have to do." 
$20 for 
$35 


includes: Beds & Booths includes: Beds & Booths Expires: Feb. 29, 1996 Expires: Feb. 29, 1996 
----------------------~ L---------------------­
Satisfaction Guaranteed! 
Voted: 
's BEST TANNING CENTER 

University Commons Grape & McKinley 
The Observer/Rob Finch and Kevin Klau by UP Mall near KMart 
Bob Lalor jabs with Justin Malley (above, left) in a hotly contested 170-pound bout, while (right) referee 
Terry Johnson helps Mike Shinners back into the ring after Brendan Gaffney knocked him through the ropes. 272-7653 256-9656 
(!~NAILS 

dl~ Uwcr 
/,·~ 
•Acrylic CARE 
.;JGrand Opening 

~DNESS!!!
r---------------,
Open: MaN-SAT 
1 15% off with 1 10:00-8:00 
I I 
I ND/SMC ID for I
SUNDAY 
I I 
I newset or fill in. I
12:00-5:00 
L---------------~ 

pto the
6502 N Grape Road 
By Best Buy and Service Merchandise 

IONAL FINALS
l~. 

271-0503 & GAME TICKETS!!!
COMPLETE NAIL 

Must be present to win at


: '1f 
Full Set $30 • Manicure $12 i.·, . Reflll $20 • Pedicure $20 
'1/
/'; , •Silk, Linen-•Man.&Ped. $30 

Basketball Movie 
\ i ' Wraps & Gel •American, Full Set $40 French tip $5 Refill $25 


Night
All Jobs are guaranteed and done by a professional from California. 
-

February 28
The Observer 

La Fortune Ballroom
is now accepting applications for thefollowing paidposition: 

HOOSIERS 8:00 p.m. 
Illustrations Editor 
HOO·P DREAMS 10:00 p.m. tickets will be distributed before Hoop Dreams
Contact Garrett Gray at 634-1786 for more information 

with the drawing to be held after
I I 
Malley unexpectedly came out and stood toe­to-toe with one of the boxing club's captains. More impressively, he matched Lalor blow-for­blow. 

Capitalizing on the opportunity, Lalor was con­sistently able to connect with solid shots, thus ensuring himself off the unanimous decision. 
"It was a really tough fight and I think he 
-----------------------,
--------~ --._......----~-~-----~~­
Monday, february 26, 1996 ·The Observer • TODAY page 19 
-

DAVE KELLETT YOUR HOROSCOPE JEANE DIXON 
>DON'T GET ME WRONG HERE, I LOVE E-MAIL AND ALL TIIAT...IT'S CHEAP, QUICK AND EASY... 
MISTER BOFFO 
DII.BERT 
l I-lATE 1"\Y SHIRTS. 
EACH ONE HAS EITHER A .SIMN OR A MIS5ING BUTTON. 
\ 

CROSSWORD 
35 Nursery cry1 Grizzlies 

36 Unspecified shape & Tennyson, e.g. 

10 Mrs. Chaplin 37 50/50 share
14 Dragon of puppetry 38 Star in Orion 
15 Up to the task 39 Moon goddess 
16 Caspian Sea 40 Guthrie of folk feeder 
41 Mideast carrier 17 Put all one's 
42 Part of NOW eggs in one 
43 Almost a pin, inbasket wrestling

19 "Cheerio!" 45 Box office
20 A.P. rival 
wrndow letters 21 Cracker spread 
46 Detective's job 22 Pan coating 
47 Masters 24 Cassandra, e.g. 
champion Craig 26 Crooner Perry 
51 Silverware tray 27 One: Fr. compartment 
28 Drench 54 Ugandan tyrant 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY! IN THE NEXT YEAR OF YOUR LIFE: Your efforts to advance your career 

>FRANKLY, I COULDN'T 
will bear delicious fruit. Someone 

DISAGREE MORE... 
influential takes a personal interest in your success. A business partner­ship should prove highly lucrative. Singles will find romance especially exciting during the summer. Marital bonds will also deepen. If planning to travel abroad, wait until early in 1997. A new addition to the family makes you want to stay close to home for the December holidays. 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: actor Tony Randall, Olympic swimmer Jenny Thornp­son, singer Fats Domino, legendary comedian Jackie Gleason. 

JOE MARTIN 
ARIES (March 21 -April 19): Handle work-related projects with care. YIPs will demand your best. Updating your methods helps you pass a test with flying colors! Share the applause with someone who has helped you every step of the way. 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Keep your long-temt goals in sight at all times. An out-of-towner's visit could prove distracting. Your talent and resourcefulness let you produce something truly extraordinary. 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Choose your allies with care. Acting on faulty information could reflect negatively on your own good judg­ment. Someone who is independent and generous wins your approval. 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): Avoid carrying a lor of cash; you may be tempted to spend it! A plan 
0 is quickly agreed on when you host 
> 
a meeting. Heed your intuition in
z

"'0 THE'{ SA'< £NGI~£.£.R.5 wi-IICH ~lAIN 
romance; it is telling you the truth . 
u .; 
.J .: 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): A long­

0 ARE NOT CONCERNED GOE!; WITH 


c 
.... 
"' 
.... 
0 
u 
"' 
·~ 
55 Comedian Philips 56 Sportscaster Albert 57 Available so Formerly &1 Safari sound &2 Flood control embankment 63 First or reverse, e.g. 64 To be, in Toulon 65 Tinker-Chance middleman 
DOWN 
1 Phony 2 Emulate Romeo and Juliet 3 1966 Michael 
Caine film 4 Orinoco, e.g. s Garden of Eden 
®"' WITH FASHION 1
"' 
"' Tl-IA.T'S NOT rA.IR.
"' 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE dweller 6 Labor's partner 7 Cousin of the bassoon 
8 Antlered animal 
wagon 
-':'-t=-t.::-t::-1 10 Revengeful 11 Spoken 
12 1949 alliance 13 Novelist Paton 18 Military HQ 23 Down Under 
bird 
sought goal moves within reach. Try
~

BUT THIS TIE?
u 
to keep up a steady pace on the job.
:;:; 
Team effort will boost the bottom 
"' ~ 

line. Others note your efficiency and zeal. 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Sur­prises could come thick and fast now. A change Q( personnel works to your advantage. Seize a golden opportunity to advance your career aims. Your friendship with an ideal­ist inspires you 10 help others. 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Make the most of your hours at work. Rich rewards will come to those who are loyal and industrious. Do not let an irresponsible friend lead you astray. 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): You can accomplish a lot today if you are both subtle and conciliatory. Creative work proves fulfilling as well as profitable. Listen to rhe dic­tates of your heart. 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21 ): Turn down a too-good-to-be­true offer. It could end up costing you plenty! Do your best at work. Higher-ups are assessing your job performance. Avoid getting overly involved in others' lives. 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Show the full range of your skills. Those in aurhority may decide to groom you for a manage­ment position. Clear up misunder­standings rhar have clouded an important relationship. 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): The success of a business alliance will banish any money worries. Your versatility makes you the ideal candidate for a leadership role. Your enthusiasm for a new job or resi­dence conrinues 10 grow. 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Be sensitive to a child's feelings. You have the necessary resolve to achieve a special goal. Hang tough even if others give you a hard rime. Going back to school will boost your eaming power. 
DEfiNITEl'Y
i.

... THE MARINARA . 
• OF INTEREST
.•"~ 
:::> 

This afternoon at 4:30 p.m. in Room 312, Debartolo Hall. Daniel J. Monticello. Vice President of Energy BioSystems Corporation will present a semi­nar entitled "Microbial Desulfurization of Fossil Fuels: The Application of Molecular biology, Bioengineering and Start-Up Financing to Build a biotechnology Company." The program is presented by The Center for Bioengineering and Pollution Control. 

( 
Cinema at the Snlte presents "Letter from Siberia" and "Meet Me in St. Louis~ will be playing at 7 p.m. and 9 p.m. respectively tomorrow. The cost is 
$2. . 
•MENU 
Notre Dame 

North South Grilled Ham & Cheese Chicken in the Pot Pasta Alia Carbonara Clam Strips Grilled Turkey Steak Whipped Potatoes 
Saint Mary's 

Call 284-4500 for menu information 
Celebrate a 
28 ~atey_of 38 Give comforting 50 Valentine's Day Marned ... words to bouquet With Children" 
42Argue 51 Health hazard 29 Grad 44 Ceiling fixture 52 Window section 
friend's birthday 
30 "At the sound of 45Mix 53 "Jaws" boat the--..." 
47 Round-the­54 From a distance 31 Israel's Abba campfire treat 58 Flower holder 32 Comparison 59 Title for Jesse
48 Skedaddle 
with a special
word 49 Hot coal Jackson: Abbr. 33 Scarce 34Music's 
Get answers to any three clues 
Fitzgerald 

by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420­
Observer ad. 
35 Choreographer 

5656 (75¢ each minute).
Agnes de-­

• 
-.. 
• 




SPORTS 



By TIM SHERMAN Associate Sports Editor 
Boxing is a difficult sport, even when one is 100% healthy. It's nearly impossible when one doesn't have use of a their left arm for half the fight. 
That was the predicment senior Dan Glennon faced yes­terday. 
Midway through his bout with Jeevan "L'il Penny" Subbiah, Glennon attempted 


Irish plunder Pirates for 12-point win 
By TIM SEYMOUR Associate Sports Editor 
In the era of national television, knee-length shorts, and rim-rattling dunks, it was a rare moment where winning a basketball game was reduced to the barest essentials. 
Notre Dame (9-15, 4-12) owned the boards and cashed in at the free throw line en route to a 72­60 victory over Seton Hall (11-14, 7-1 0) Saturday at the Joyce Center. 
The Irish, second from the bottom in free throw shooting in the Big East, proved that history does not necessarily repeat by draining 22 of their 23 second-half free throws and 24 of 26 for the game. 
Notre Dame also took advantage of cold-shoot­ing by both teams to compile a 53-31 rebound advantage, and was especially dominating on the defensive glass in the waning moments. 
"We really controlled the boards in the second half when we had the lead," explained senior 
see PLUNDER I page 14 
Men's Basketball Men's Tennis 
to throw a left hook. Ile missed, popping his shoulder out in the process. 
"I 've dislocated my shoulder a bunch of times, so it is a weakness," Glennon said. "I threw a punch that missed and it (the shoulder) just came out." 
The injury occurred at about the minute mark of the second round. 
Glennon grimaced and 
see GUTS I page 17 
• 
The end of an era: Marv Wood retires 
By STEPHANIE BUEK Spons writer 

Webster's New American Dictionary defines it as "a no­table person whose deeds or exploits are much talked about in his or her own time." 
Legend. 

Beyond the conventional def­inition, Saint Mary's College has its own interpretation of a legend. 
Coach Marvin Wood. 

The legend of the Indiana basketball community coached the final game of his distin­guished 43-year career Saturday at Angela Athletic Facility. Facing the number two team in Division III, the Belles fell to Defiance College, 
84-64. 

Despite the loss that put his team's final season record at 7­16, Coach Wood evaluated the Belles' season in terms of life's lessons, rather than facts and figures. 
"Winning isn't the only thing in this game," Wood said. "In life, you can't always win, but when you work hard, you make good things happen. That's something I hope (the team) can take with them for the rest of their lives." 
Indeed, numbers alone do not tell the story of SMC's sea­son. Playing seven games in the last two weeks with two se­nior starters sidelined due to knee injuries, the Belles strug­gled physically and emotionally to accomplish their goal of a 
see WOOD I page 14 

vs. Miami, Feb. 28, 7:00p.m. 

vs. Michigan Srare, Feb. 28, 3:30p.m. 


• Women's hoops fall to UConn again 
Women's Basketball Saint Mary's Tennis 
see page 13 

ar West Virginia, Feb. 26, 7:00p.m. 
vs. Hope, March 2, I :00 p.m. 
• Irish softball downed in Arizona 
Hockey 
see page 13

Baseball 
vs. Ferris State, March 2, 7:00p.m. 
ar New Orleans, March I, 1:00 p.m. • Hockey playoff hopes shunned see page 12 






