

Monday, November 4, 1996 • Vol. XXX No. 45 THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Overseas students experience ND 'home' game 
Survey: Young Catholics prefer GOP 
By JOHN DE BOY 
News Writer 
A
s the 1996 presidential campaign draws to a close, opinion polls indicate that Bob Dole trails President Clinton by large margins among white Roman Catholics. However, a handful of recent studies, including one by a Notre Dame professor, indicate that young white Catholics ­and Notre Dame students in particular -are shift­ing their support to Republican presidential candi­dates despite the historical popularity of the Democratic Party among Catholics. 
A recent NBC News-Wall Street Journal poll, con­ducted by Democrat Peter Hart and Republican Robert Teeter, showed that, although Clinton leads Dole by 29 percentage points among Catholics over 45, the president's lead among Catholics under 45 is a much smaller 8 points. 
• ElECTION '96 
See Election coverage on pages 4 and 5 
According to David Leege, a Notre Dame govern­ment professor and director of the University's Program for Research on Religion, Church, and Society, Clinton's lead is likely to be even smaller­or perhaps even nonexistent -at Notre Dame, where a full 85 percent or the student body is Catholk. 
Lcege, whose studies indicate that "Catholic post­boomers (the so-called Generation X) are every bit as Republican as Southern evangelical Protestants," gave several reasons for why the current Republican trend among young Catholics would be even more pronounced at Notre Dame. 
"First," Leege said, "younger Catholics in general are more likely to be Republican than other Catholics. Second, Notre Dame draws from a more upper-class Catholic population, which tends to be more Republican. 
"I think (the popularity of Republican candidates) is the case particularly for those Notre Dame stu­dents who are drawn from white suburban roots. It would not be the case for African-American or Latino students, who currently constitute a growing portion of the Notre Dame student body," added Leege. 
Surprisingly, most studies suggest that the shift to the Republican Party among younger Catholics has more to do with economic issues than it has to do with social issues such as abortion. 
According to John Green, a professor at the University of Akron who has conducted studies on the impact of religion on politics, younger Catholics tend to be more pro-choice than older Catholics. 
"They (younger Catholics) identify as Republicans," Green said, "but they do that because 
see TRENDS I page 6 
By CAROLINE BLUM 
Saint Mary's Editor 
DUBLIN, Ireland 
They wore the faces of utter excitement. For the first time in ten months, they were going to a Notre Dame football game. 
On the streets of Dublin, they pointed and marveled at all of the people wearing Notre Dame sweatshirts. Walking into the stadium, they sang the Victory March and cheered with the crowd. For Notre Dame and Saint Mary's stu­dents studying overseas, it seemed like a dream. 
"So many people go abroad first semester because they don't want to miss a football season." Saint Mary's Ireland program student Ellen O'Toole said. "But we went abroad anyway, and we still get to see a football game." 
The crowd of Ireland pro­gram students walked into Croake Park Stadium, the site of the Shamrock Classic foot­ball game between Notre Dame and Navy. 

They talked about people they knew would be over for the game-friends in the band, the Irish Guard, the Notre Dame Folk Choir, and students from other European abroad programs. 
As they began their hike up the stands to the student sec­tion, they saw in the distance a huge banner painted with the Notre Dame leprechaun. Underneath the figure was the word "Innsbruck," signifying the students who had come over for the game from Austria. 
"We're on break for 10 days," said Barb Hinsman, an Innsbruck program student. "So everybody came to Ireland for the game. It's so great to be here; I see so many faces I recognize." 
The students on the Ireland programs crowded around the 
Presidential Preference SurveyNotre Dame Undergraduates 
Sponsored by: Notre Dame Pi Sigma Alpha and the Hesburgh Program in Public Service 

Dote 
53.5% 


Presidential preference amongthose who say they intend to vote or have voted by absentee ballot 
In 
end 
Outside otSouth Bend 
. 89.3% 

Percent of"ndergraduateswho saythey intend lo.vote who are regislefe~ ; outside Of the South Bend area "" 
Dem(Jcraf . 
24.4% Republican
44.1% 

Survey says: Dole holds lead over Clinton at ND 
By BRAD PRENDERGAST 
conducted by Notre Dame's News Editor chapter of Pi Sigma Alpha and the Hesburgh Program in Bob Dole will be the next Public Service, questioned 254 president. students by telephone last 
That would be the case if the week. Notre Dame student body were Presidential incumbent Bill the entire voting electorate, Clinton finished almost 21 according to a survey's results points behind Dole, at 32.7 per­released yesterday. cent. Reform Party candidate 
Dole was the selection of 53.5 Ross Perot claimed only 2. 5 percent of students who were percent ofthe vote. surveyed and said they intend­The strong support for Dole ed to vote or had voted by absentee ballot. The survey, see SURVEY/ page 6 


outgoing Austria crowd. Filtering in were representa­tives from the Notre Dame London and Angers programs. In line for the bathroom, Ireland student Bridget Murphy squealed at the sight of friend and French student Libby Rector. 
"It's so strange to just look over and see someone like that," Murphy said. "At first, you just can't believe it." 
Libby Rector was one of 10 students on the program in Angers, France attending the game. 
"We wouldn't have missed it for the world," Rector said. "It's not a long trip-just three 
see IRISH I page 7 

Lyons 'Fun Run' honors Mara Fox 
By CHRISTOPHER SHIPLEY News Writer 

Cold temperatures and the first snow­­fall of the year were not enough to keep over two hundred dedicated runners from participating in the fourth annual Mara Fox Fun Run Saturday morning at Lyons Hall. 
The day's activities, which began at 10 a.m., honored Mara Fox, the Notre Dame freshman and Lyons Hall resident who was hit by a car and killed on November 13, 1993, while walking home with friends on Douglas Road. 
"The run went really well, despite the weather. I'm very pleased with the num­ber of people who turned out," said junior Jennifer Ryan, Lyons Hall co-presi­
see RUN/ page 6 
• STUDENT SENATE 



Letter targets student rights 
By RUSSELL WILLIAMS Assistant News Editor 
In an action intended to stimulate con­structive dialogue between student lead­ers and administrators, the Student Senate will submit a letter today to Professor Patricia O'Hara, Vice-President of Student Affairs. With this letter, the Senate makes a direct appeal to O'Hara requesting an open discussion on student rights at Notre Dame. 
Currently, according to the letter, the rights and provisions which were allowed to students in the past are no longer included in Du Lac. 
The Student Senate believes that specif­ically, "the construction, revision and composition of Du Lac, university discipli­nary procedures, and student rights," warrant discussion. The letter highlights what the Senate sees as the de-evolution of Du Lac, from 1968, when it was con­structed by students, faculty, and admin­istrators hoping to promote community 
see LETTER I page 7 


page 2 The Observer • INSIDE Mondsy, November 4, 1996 
-
• INSIDE COLUMN 



Something 
frotn 



nothing... 
It occurred to  us out  -------­ 
of the blue the other  Catherine Deely  
day, as we sat sprawled  Accent Copy Ediror  
in exceptionally com­ 

fortable fat chairs and across patches of car­pet with our gazes switching blankly from the pulsating television screen before us to which ever one of us happened to be sound­ing off on some newly conceived and abstract topic. 
It occurred to us as we thumbed through a copy of that day's Observer, noting every exuberantly described event being offered merely for our entertainment. It plagued us, and it concerned us...and then we simply accepted it. 
My friends and I were doing nothing, and we were utterly content in the process. 
Much ado has been made about the oppor­tunities presented to the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's student bodies. We have world­renowned speakers, endless selections of movies and presentations, sporting events, festivities, and group gatherings. We can expect, and receive, indulgence from the Snite and Senior Bar alike. South Bend is not, nor ever shall be, a cultural mecca or a bona fide "college town", but let's face it: if we really want something to do, we are not at a loss. Ever. 
On this same note, college in itself is sup­posed to be the most exciting and adventure laden time of our lives. Never again will we have this much time to devote to so many­how fitting a term!-"random" possibilities. We are bombarded with this message, time and time again. We know we should be lis­tening to it. We should be cramming as vast an array of limitless hopes, dreams, and experiences as possible into these precious four years of undergraduate life. 
We really should. 
Sonehow, however, at the same time, doing nothing is a powerful and constant tempta­tion. When "Must See TV" is on and the weather is cold and everyone is lounged around comfortably with neither desire nor motivation to move...is it really so wrong not to be taking advantage of every one of our opportunities? Is it wrong to spend those supposedly adrenaline destined hours not doing very much of anything besides talking, laughing, or just being there? 
When it comes down to what college mem­ories and college lives are truly fashioned from, the thought-provoking lectures and raving parties are not the essence... they are merely the corners of our experience. Our college friendships are formed and cemented more from those so-called "wasted" days spent with our bodies draped casually around a room than from any SYH or road trip. It is the everyday experience which is at the heart of living. 
Opportunities are indeed meant to be seized. Notre Dame and Saint Mary's are places which do not merely offer, but demand, participation and challenge. Yet don't let the idea of what you "should" be doing 24/7 steal those lazy moments of seem­ing nothingness away from you. 
As you look back, you'll find that "nothing" is a deceptive word, after all. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
• TOOAY'S STAFF  
News  Lab Tech  
Allison Koenig  Joe Stark  
Matthew Loughran  Katie Kroener  
Russ Williams  Production  
Sports  Heather Cocks  
Brian Fremeau  Tara Grieshop  
Viewpoint  Maureen Hurley  
Ethan Hayward  Graphics  
Accent  Sue O'Kain  
Rachel Torres  

The ObS<rv<r (USPS S99 2-4000) is publishod Monday rhrough Friday cx.cC'pr Juring C'Xam and vacarion pC'riod~. The ObservC'r is a member of the Assodarc:J Pres.\. All reproduction rights are reserved. 

• WORLD AT A GLANCE 
British Telecom-MCI 'marriage' concerns AT&T 
LONDON I Big phone marriage: what each side briugs i the world's leading long-distance 

British Telecommunications PLC ,
d d . "II b MCI IBritisbThle<ommuni<:ationsPLCandMCICnmmuni"llonsCUI]> describcthcirmerg« 
sai su n a y It w I u y as the ~;s:::~~al.:::~Th."~~~b~:J:;i.~!~~::S~f!~'l:'~I:C:::~""'UI<'S
$20 I * ~

Communications Corp. in a billion-plus deal that would be the ,M······Cl . ! biggest foreign takeover of a u.s. r· . ! corporation in history. 
The deal, formally announced Sl8.7billioo 
after boards of both companies I sLzhmion 
approved, caused concern at fel-~ low phone superpower AT&T s11.1hmioo Corp., which stands to lose the 
21 111

most from the marriage. l mi "" The companies promised a ~ 
52,000 

"communications powerhouse," i with annual revenues of $42 bil-1 70«>••'""' 
lion and 43 million business and So...ce.•.,,..,ro~ecom ••, ..c, residential customers in 72 coun­tries. They will call the merged business Concert. named after a joint venture begun three years ago when British Telecom bought a stake in MCI. 
The combination comes at a vulnerable time for AT&T, 
Perot prepares final series of ads 
DALLAS 

Hoss Perot is spending some of the final hours of his presidential cam­paign on familiar ground -in the tele­vision studio. "It's saturation bomb­ing," he said of the 120 minutes of advertising he's bought to air on elec­tion eve. The quartet of 30-minute­long infomercials cost the Perot cam­paign nearly $2 million, campaign 


coordinator Russ Verney said Sunday. Two of the broad­casts will run back-to-hack on ABC Monday night, with two others showing on CBS and NBC. Not every affiliate must carry the programs, but the networks guarantee most will or the Perot campaign won't have to pay. Perot had offered to share one hour of air time with President Clinton, saying he wanted to give the president a chance to explain questionable foreign donations made to the Democratic Party. The White House declined. Perot, who made a more traditional-style campaign swing to college campuses during last week, used most of his speeches to broadly attack Clinton's character. Recent Texas polls have shown Perot in third place in the Lone Star State with Clinton and Republican nominee Bob Dole in a sta­tistical dead''heat. 
Underdogs win NYC marathon 
NEWYOHK 

Giacomo Leone, a 25-year-old policeman from Italy, and Anuta Catuna, 28, from Homania, were the men's and women's winners of yesterday'.s New York Marathon, leaving the expected top contenders far back. Leone was the first Italian winner since 1986, when Gianni Poli followed countryman's Orlando Pizzolato's 1984 and 1985 victories. In the 1990s, however, the per­formances by the Italians had declined, with no finisher in the top five in the past six years. "When the other Italians won, I was a little child," said Leone, who pulled away in the final 3 miles and recorded his career-best time in his first marathon victory. "I saw it on TV. Today, I remembered the New York City Marathon and I prayed to God. "The finish of the race was very hard." Leone made it look easy, though, winning by 15 seconds. Running in her third marathon this year, Catuna won by coming from behind. She stayed off the blistering early pace before coming on strong late and winning in a Homanian record 2:28:18, 24 seconds ahead of Franca Fiacconi of Italy, a marathon winner three weeks ago. "I· ran slowly in the first part," said Catuna, the fourth­place finisher in New York in 1994. "Then, I tried to run fast ... fast ... fast." 
• SouTH BEND WEATHER • NATIONAL WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forcast AccuWealher® forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 
The AccuWeather®forecast for noon, Monday, Nov. 4. 
Unes separate high temperature zones for the day. 
.. . @ 

Wednesday~ :so;1'iij r3o_, 
FRONTS:

Thursday 50-;31 
,.......... _._._ ..,...ay..
~ 
\.o,:, . j[ 
COLD WARM STATIONARY C 1996 AccuWeather, Inc. Pressure

Friday ~ '49 t 13o 
H L 


HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-5TORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY
I)~"":'>.,.\~""-//'\, r
5..)""'• .........._v ...... 
. 61 Ballimore 49 29 Denver 64 33 New York 50 37 Atlanta 59 32 Dallas 40 New Orteans 60 49 

~Q~uuu -!)-u
' . . .:. .:..:. ---~ Boston 45 33 Los Angeles 68 56 Portland, Ore. 52 44 

... ,,, ... ....... ··=··-:: --­
~,...... 

Showers T-storms Rain Flurries Snow Ice Sunny Pl. Cloudy Cloudy Chicago 47 24 Miami 82 73 St. Louis 52 26 Via Associated Press GraphiCSNet Cincinnati 45 19 Milwaukee 48 26 Tucson 69 53 
tcoNCERT , B,.. ft. 
~-,_..,.__"'"'''"" : I I /" 
S4Zbillion m.Jmltion S4.7billion SJ.lbiiHon 
ss4.lbilli•• m.lbilhon 43 221
minion mi lion _
183.000 131 000 n"'""'"" JOcountri"' 
AI' 
give AT&T's rival a big advantage. 

"The ability of a company with this kind of market power to negatively impact competi­tion and reduce customer choice makes the evaluation of this proposed merger a global priority of the highest order," Allen said. 
Record-breaker confesses to cheating 
LONDON 

The first woman to walk around the world says she cheated by accepting rides across a 1,000-mile stretch of the United States after becoming pregnant. Ffyona Campbell, who finished her 19,586-mile, 11-year trek across five continents in 1994, said she wants her name removed from the Guinness Book of Records. "I shouldn't be remembered as the first woman to walk around the world when I cheated," Campbell, 29, told Independent Television on Sunday. There was no imme­diate comment from the Guinness Book of Records. In her newly published autobiography, "The Whole Story," she says the shame of having cheated on the walk made her dabble with drugs and she considered suicide. "The truth is hard enough to live with but deceit is even hard­er," she wrote. "My lie almost destroyed me." While crossing the U.S. in 1985, she got rides on her support truck from Indianapolis, Ind., to Fort Summer, N.M., a distance of some 1,000 miles. "I got into the back of the vehicle and drove ahead and didn't drive back to contin­ue walking properly," she said, saying she felt weak after becoming pregnant by her back-up driver. She later had an abortion. More than a year later, she com­pleted the walk from Indianapolis to Fort Summer, alone and in secret, she said. 
Pentagon defends mistaken pilot 
WASHINGTON 

A U.S. F-16 pilot fired a missile Saturday when he thought he was being targeted by an Iraqi missile site, but no Iraqi radar attempted to lock on to the aircraft, the Pentagon said Sunday. The Pentagon defended the pilot's action, saying his cockpit instruments had indicat­ed he was being targeted, and under the rules of engagement he was allowed to respond to what he per­ceived as a hostile act. "Subsequent analysis did not sup­port the initial indications of radar activity," the Pentagon said in a statement. It did not say what dam­age was done by the missile, noting that it was still being assessed. A Pentagon military source, asked how the confusion occurred, said the pilot did hear an auditory signal indicating the F-16 had been locked onto, but apparently it was a false reading, later analysis showed. The source spoke on condition of anonymity. The Pentagon's admission calmed concerns that a new out­break of hostilities was possible as the U.S. elections approached. Iraq denied that any incident took place. Its official news agency quoted a Foreign Ministry spokesman as saying, "Fabricating this false report is part of American-style electioneering" -a reference to the U.S. presidential elections on Tuesday. 
J phone service provider, which has
l been struggling with a leadership
I
.succession problem and is in the j midst of completing a major rear­' ganization of its own businesses.I In a statement that clearlyl reflected AT&T's concern, chair­
1 ] mBral_tni.shHToebleecrotm~·MACIIIdeenalsdaeisdertvhede ! extraordinary attention from regu­
1.· 
lators. who have the power to \ overturn or significantly alter it. 
'I 
Allen also objected to what he called obstacles to competition in I the British market, which could 





By P. COLLEEN NUGENT , News Writer 
Saint Mary's College will be hosting "Choosing a Major Night" this evening at 7 p.m. in the Chameleon Room at Haggar College Center. Freshmen and sophomores who are currently.undecided on their course of study will have the chance to talk with upperclass students from 20­25 different majors. 
The goal of tonight's event is for the students to under­stand, through their interac­tion with the juniors and seniors on the Student Academic Council, that there is a suitable major for each student and her future goals. 
SAC's chair, Beth Ann Mill\')r. had a large role in publicizing the event. Advertising was done through writing letters to students and hanging signs up throughout campus. 
There will be tables with people representing the differ­ent academic departments, and brochures will be avail­able for students to take home for further review. 
Getting the students acquainted with upperclass­men and providing them with the opportunity to seek infor­mation about various majors is the main objective of this evening's event. 
Rose Kopec, one of Saint Mary's career counselors and a major role-player tonight's affairs said, "In order for people to have an enjoyable career, they need to hook all of the activities together that they enjoy doing, and relate it to a major." 
Kopec added, "The decision must be a natural one, because by doing so, only suc­cess and enjoyment of one's career choice will allow one to really show what they are made of." 
Even after tonight's event, the hunt for the ideal major does not have to end. The Career Counseling Center, located in LeMans Hall, is open five days a . week. Counselors are available daily to speak with students. 
The Observer/Joe Stark 
In a forum sponsored by Gender Studies this past Friday, faculty and staff members (from left) Jean Porter, Teresa Ghilarducci, Rita Winsor, Elizabeth Tucker, and Lori Butchko discussed staff salaries. 
Forum targets salary issue 
By DEREK BETCHER Assistant News Ediror 
Salaries for University cleri­cal workers remain a volatile issue one year after support staff first organized to share their concerns on issues of compensation and representa­tion. 
Friday, Gender Studies spon­sored a forum examining the relationship between Notre Dame and its secretarial staff. As participants and audience members balanced progress with unresolved goals, it became clear that a significant portion of the University's staff remains disconcerted. 
Many of the issues central to the forum originated from a February 29, 1996, report generated by the Faculty Senate's Committee on Administration. That report detailed pay inequalities between the University's cleri­cal workers, 98 percent of whom are female, and its other staff employees such as groundskeepers and food ser­vices workers. 
Labeling the clerical work­ers' wages "painfully low," that report asserts "Catholic social teaching has consistent­ly held that every full-time worker has a right to a family­
, 
' 

sustaining wage. A significant number of our workers are being denied this right." 
Friday's forum examined the varied perspectives on changes made in the after­math of that report. Participants were: Lori Butchko, an administrative assistant in the anthropology department and Staff Advisory Council member; Elizabeth Tucker, a staff member in the Laboratory for Social Research and chair for the Steering Committee for Support of All Notre Dame Staff; and Rita Winsor, assis­
tant  director  of  the  
Department  of  Human  
Resources.  

Labeling the occasion "a ret­rospective look at what has happened since last year," economics professor Teresa Ghilarducci introduced that panel and explained that each member would have seven minutes to talk before later being given five minutes to question their co-panelists. 
Tucker detailed the back­ground of her and her co­workers' efforts to organize. She explained that an informal group began meeting in October 1995 and within one week attendance at its meet­ings had tripled. 


Chinese -American Restaurant 
and Cocktail Lounge 
~uthentlc Szechuan, Mandarin and 
•, 
Lunches starting at .... $4.25 Dinners starting at .... $5.95 Banquet rooms available up to 200 




REAT \VALL 
Bar and Restaurant open 7 days a week 130 Dixie Way N., South Bend 
to Howard 
CROFUT & BRUBEC 
SPONSORED BY 
The Elkhart Concert Club 
Bringing the STARS to Elkhart for 
45 GREAT YEARS 
Bill Crofut and Chris Brubeck team up for a live concert on November 6, 1996 at 7:30pm at the 
ELCO Performing Arts Center Downtown Elkhart, (219) 293-4469 

"I'd heard grumblings about working conditions and com­pensation (so) we just decided to do something," Tucker explained. "We formed a small network and set issues." 
While concerned with issues affecting the general body of support staff, these early net­works were largely secretarial and clerical, Tucker noted. They soon established a Steering Committee with a mission statement urging the creation of a representative body similar to Faculty Senate. Their goal was to have been to work with the University on issues pertaining to benefits and communication. 
In response, the University created the Staff Advisory Council. Pinpointing one of the Friday forum's most central issues, Tucker questioned staff sentiments regarding the Council, asking, "Is this what we wanted?" 
"It's too early to tell," she concluded. 
One of the University admin­istration's primary actions in response to the compensation issue was to commission the Towers Perrin human resources consulting firm to review the classifications for all non-academic positions at Notre Dame. 

The State Races
Election '96 Compiled by Matthew Loughran and David Freddoso 

FoR INDIANA GOVERNOR••• 


FRANK O'BANNON 
DEMOCRATIC CANDIDATE 
THE ECONOMY: The O'Bannon plan ineludes a $1.1 billion property tax cut and a four to 12 percent graduated 

L
ieutenant Governor Frank ()'Bannon hails from Corydon, Indiana. in southern Indiana. lie entered public service as a state senator in 1970. !lis ticket this year is endorsed by Governor Evan Bayh and the Indiana State Teachers' Union. 
Joseph Kernan. mayor ofSouth Bend and alumnus ofNotre Dame, is 0'/Jannon 's running mate 

S
teve Goldsmith, the current mayor of Indianapolis, is the Republican candidate for governor of Indiana. lie began his political career as Marion County prose­cutor. llis • ticket has the endorsement ofIndiana Right to Life. 
George Witwer is his running mate. 
income tax credit. O'Bannon also wishes to maximize access to state job-training programs so as to keep Indiana competi­tive in the job market. 
WELFARE REFORM: The plan allows only two years of eligibility for Aid to Families with Dependent Children (AFDC). During these two years, welfare recipients must undergo job training or else actively seek work. This plan has already been in effect for a short time, and so far New feels that it has been suc­cessful. But, he admits, some people fall through the cracks after the two year deadline. 
EDUCATION: Indiana is near the bot­tom among the states in standardized test scores, and to improve the state's ranking, O'Bannon wants to raise stan­dards by offering more courses which are "truly academic" -mainly advanced plaeement and honors courses in basic subjects. Also, O'Bannon sees the need to allow more local deeision-making in the curriculum and administration of Indiana sehools. 
STEVE GOLDSMITH 
REPUBLICAN CANDIDATE 
THE ECONOMY: Goldsmith's plan for the economy includes a $4.1 billion property tax cut, which he hopes will make Indiana more attractive to businesses. 
WELFARE REFORM: Goldsmith breaks with the GOP on this issue. He finds the two year entitlement limit in the new federal welfare bill to be "troubling," according to John Hatfield, his deputy campaign manag­er. He wants to establish a job placement service for current welfare recipients, to be run by a private company seleeted on a competitive basis. He has had some success with a similar program in Indianapolis. He would also require able-bodied recipients not in sehool to work for their checks, either in the private seetor or in temporary com­munity service jobs. 
EDUCATION: Goldsmith wants to let indi­vidual communities vote on enacting school choice voucher programs. He says he would allow more competition between publie sehools, to increase the accountabili­ty of teachers and administrators. In addi­tion, he intends to administer statewide tests at the beginning and end of each school year, in order to measure progress. Students in schools which test below the tenth percentile in the state would become eligible for voueher programs. 

• CAMPAIGN ANALYSIS 

Dirty politics dominate race 

By DAVID FREDDOSO News Wrirer 
Indiana is one of few states that still has a 
strong political party system. Hoosier 
Demoerats and Republieans each have 
"their own" cities and towns, according to 
analysts. 
While this might make polities in Indiana predietable, negative eampaigning has kept the political races tight. 
The Indiana Gubernatorial race has been eonsidered by many political commentators as the closest raee in the United States this year. Latest polls show GOP candidate Steve Goldsmith with 46 percent and Democrat Frank O'Bannon with 44 percent, putting the two in a statistical dead heat. 
O'Bannon accuses Goldsmith of corrup­tion and misman­agement. Goldsmith accuses 

'Steve

O'Bannon of con­
Goldsmith:

sistently raising taxes and spend­Bad for fish, bad 
ing out of control. 
for Indiana.' 

O'Bannon accuses 
Goldsmith of lying about his record. 'Q'Bannon 
Goldsmith 
never met 

retracts his state­
a tax he didn't

ment, then he accuses O'Bannon hike.' of using scare tac­tics to win votes Campaign ads 
from state employees. 
Neither candidate can remember or agree on who started this tight but neither side ever forgets anything that has hap­pened since. 
Goldsmith admits that Hoosiers are fed up with the tone of this race, and says that he has attempted to work with O'Bannon to clean up both tickets. 
From Goldsmith's accusation that O'Bannon has "never met a tax he didn't hike," to one of O'Bannon's latest commer­cials, which borders on the absurd ("Steve Goldsmith: Bad for fish"). 
Tom New, O'Bannon's campaign manag­er, stated that the negative campaigning "has essentially come from [Goldsmith's] side." "We started back on August 13 run­ning our television ads," he said. " And in early September he (Goldsmith) launched into a negative attack on O'Bannon." 
Goldsmith's deputy campaign manager, John Hatfield, however, has a different view. "While we have certainly criticized Frank O'Bannon," he claimed, "all of our criticisms have directly been on issues." 
See Wednesday's Observerfor complete post-election coverage 
Wednesday, Nov. 6, 1996 102 DeBartolo Hall 7:00p.m. 

Free Admission 
' 

Fellowllll !Jy aPa111/ Diu11ssion on: 
"Lessons from the Past: How They Can Foster 01~ l.dent~lV: 
l. Prof. Patrick Mason, Economics Dept.,, Mc:,dci~t~~; ·. 
2. 
Prof. Kimberly Flint-Hamilton, ASsistant Dean1 College of Arb f.,t Letters; 

3. 
Prof. De Bryant, Psychology Dept.lflJpB;t_Social Action Project; .· ·· · · ··· : ·· 

4. 
Prof. Richard Pierce, Hiitory Dept.; 

5. 
Mr. Rodney Cohen, Director, Urban ;Flu,nge/ Centel' for Social Concllnts . . , . 


FOR DISTRICT 3 CONGRESS••• 
TIM ROEMER 
DEMOCRATIC CANDIDATE 
WELFARE: Hoerner supports increasing the funding of programs that prevent teen pregnaney and family break-up. He would require welfare reeipients to aeeept some form of government-sponsored job after two years if unemployed in the private sector. Roemer has also supported providing ehild care services to welfare recipients who work or attend school. 
CRIME: He has supported programs that provide prison inmates with vocational and job-related skills and job-plaeement assis­tance when released. Boerner has also ealled for increased funding for loeal Boys & Girls Clubs and other independent organiza­tions in communities with at-risk youth. He also supports expanded funding for commu­nity policing programs. 
CAMPAIGN FINANCE REFORM: Roemer supports the Congress passing legislation that would encourage full and timely disdo­sure of campaign finance information. 
EDUCATION: Roemer supports a constitu­tional amendment to allow voluntary prayer or a moment of silence in pub lie schools. lie also agrees with President Clinton's National Service Program as a way of funding eollege in return for performing community scrviee and has professed support for a voueher program for any participating school. 
JOE ZAKAS 
REPUBLICAN CANDIDATE 
WELFARE: Zakas has supported imposing a two-year limit on welfare benefits for recipients who are able to work. In addition to this incentive, he calls for support pro­grams that give incentives for employers to hire and train welfare recipients. He has also supported requiring that, if possible, unwed teenage mothers live with a parent or guardian and attend school to reeeive benefits. 
CRIME: He favors broadening the death penalty for federal crimes. He also supports prosecuting youths accused of murder as adults and initiating "boot eamps" as alter­native sentencing for adult first-time felons. 
CAMPAIGN FINANCE REFORM: On the issue of campaign finance reform, Zakas has proposed that laws be enacted to require that a substantial portion of campaign con­tributions come from the candidate's con­gressional district. 
EDUCATION: Zakas supports amending the Constitution to allow voluntary prayer or a moment of silence in public schools, and also supports eliminating the Department of Education in favor of giving state and loeal government greater control over edueation­al issues, as well as issuing block grants to states for school funding, 

R
ep. Tim Roemer is the incum­bent and has been a mem­ber of the /louse of Representat­
. ives since 1990. /leis an adjunct professor at American University. lie was born and raised in South Bend. and received his master's degree and PhD from the University of Notre Dame. 

J:
oe Zakas has served as the Indiana State Senate Judiciary Committee Chairman and has been a mem­ber ofthe Indiana State Senate since 1982. lie has been an attorney since 1980. lie received his MBA and his JDfrom the University ofNotre Dame. 

Juniors/Seniors! 
Planning to Attend Graduate School? 
Learn the Nuts and Bolts of Applying to Graduate School · 

•Identify an appropriate course of study 
•Secure 
letters of recommendation 

•Write 
an effective letter of intent 


•Locate funding sources 
WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 6, 1996 
4:00P.M. -5:00P.M. 
NoTRE DAME RooM -LAFORTUNE 
Panelists will be: 
Dr. Peter Diffley, Associate Dean of the Graduate School and Dr. Barbara Turpin, Director of Graduate Admission 
Moderated by: 
Olivia Williams, Assistant Director Career and Placement Services 



~esident Bill F Clinton received a degree from the Georgetown University School of Foreign Service, after which he attended Oxford University for two years as a Rhodes Scholar. He was elected Governor of Arkansas in 19 79 following two years as the Arkansas Attorney General. He served as Governor until his presidential inauguration in 1993. His run­ning mate is AI Gore. 

H:
arry B~owne, an actwe Libertarian, is a financial advi­sor, author, and public speaker. He educated himselfin eco­nomics. finance, and political sci­ence. Three of his ten books. most ofwhich deal with invest­ment and fin an" cial advice, have made the New York Times best­seller list. CNN, FNN, and other networks have aired Browne as a guest consul­tant. His running mate is Jo Jorgensen. 
BILL CLINTON 
DEMOCRATIC CANDIDATE 
THE ECONOMY: President Clinton believes in finding a way to balance the budget without cutting funding for Medicare, Medicaid, education, and other crucial areas. His tax cuts, including a $500 decrease per child, would still be fea­sible, as would his intentions of increased pension coverage and protection. 
EDUCATION: Clinton supports college loan programs, and plans to expand AmeriCorps, a program through which students earn money for college through community service. He is looking to raise the number of participants in College Work Study programs to one million, and plans to implement a large-scale merit­based scholarship program rewarding the top 5% of high school graduates with grants topping $1000 per student. 
FOREIGN POLICY: If elected, he will continue aid to Israel, Egypt, and Turkey, as well as maintaining diplomatic activity in troubled areas. A supporter of NATO, he looks to maintain a strong presence in both that group and the United Nations, which he believes has limitless potential to combat international crime. 
CHARACTER ISSUE: Clinton will have to fend off allegations that include sexual harrassment and questionable campaign funds. The charges have been put on hold and will surface after the election. 
HARRY BROWNE 
LIBERTARIAN CANDIDATE 
THE ECONOMY: Browne cites balancing the budget as a top priority, a goal he can allegedly attain in one year by reducing government spending and selling federal assets. Browne sees politicians as being "responsible for the overbloated $1.6 tril­lion federal government," and he wishes to eliminate that expense by shrinking the "nosy, unconstitutional" government. 
EDUCATION: According to Browne, no federal education program can work. He will repeal the income tax, in order to make parents better able to fund their child's education in whichever way they see fit -private school, religious institu­tions, or even home instruction. 
FOREIGN POLICY: Browne sees foreign alliances as "entanglements," and plans to bring American troops back to the United States immediately. He would like to aug­ment defense against missile attacks, eliminating the need for "retaliatory weapons and intimidating military power." 
CHARACTER ISSUE: Browne has not been subject to the mud-slinging and neg­ative advertising that usually pervades the campaign trail. By the same token, how­ever, this absence from the public eye has made him a virtual unknown. 

• CAMPAIGN ANALYSIS 
Prognosticators: Both parties will hold power 
ByJOHN DIAMOND 
Associated Press Writer 
WASHINGTON 

Complaints about gridlock aside, all si.~s point to voters once again choosing . divided government Tuesday instead of opting for one party's solutions. 
The record of the last three decades under­
'J think 

scores what polls 
people will 

suggest will hap­pen this year: want that faced with the 
additional

choice of ending gridlock or bal­protection ancing political 
against Bill 

forces against one 
Clinton, should 

another, voters will choose, or at he be elected.' least tolerate, bal­ancing most of the time. In 22 of the Trent Lott last 28 years, at 
least one of the two houses of Congress 
has been controlled· by the party opposed 
to the president. 
While they can't admit that President Clinton will be re-elected, despite his healthy lead in all polls, Republican lead­ers are insisting they will retain control of Congress whatever happens to the presi­dency. 
"I think people want that additional pro­tection against Bill Clinton, should he be elected," Senate Majority Leader Trent Lott, R-Miss., said Sunday on CNN. 
Democrats, of course, are saying the opposite. American voters "remember the polarization and the confrontation that existed for the last two years and they don't want to see that," Lott's opposite number, Minority Leader Tom Daschle, D­S.D., said on CBS. "They want to see more bipartisanship, more cooperation, less confrontation." 
But history shows that divided govern­
ment does not necessarily hurt presidents, 
nor does it automatically block legislation. 
The recent record of presidents running 
f~r ~e-election after having led a politically 
divided government is promising for 
Clinton. Republican Presidents Reagan, 
Nixon and Eisenhower all won after hav­
ing led Congresses partially or wholly 
under Democratic control. 
OUR PORTIONS ARE BIGGER THAN YOUR HISTORY BOOK. 
Fazoli's wrote the book on fast Italian. And our authentic Italian entrees from Alfredo to Ziti are big enough to feed a fraternity. 

Real Italian. Real Fast. 52770 US Route 33N, 277-4008, South Bend 

C**> Presidential··· . ~..·. ·:.• . ·
.· ....
R\, Race n99;­
compiled by Heather Cocks and Bridget O'Con~or 
BOB DOLE 
REPUBLICAN CANDIDATE 
THE ECONOMY: One of the main premises of the Dole campaign is the 15 percent across the board tax cut. He sup­ports a balanced budget amendment to the Constitution and places an emphasis on balancing the budget through spending restraint without sacrificing programs like Medicare, Medicaid and Social Security. Dole P.lans to replace the current tax sys­tem With one that he calls "simpler, flatter and fairer." 
EDUCATION: Dole plans to promote educational freedom through "Opportunity Scholarships for Children" and by allowing low and middle income parents to deduct interest from student loans and to set up tax-free Education Investment Accounts. 
FOREIGN POLICY: Using a "firm hand 
in the Oval Office," Dole plans to be con­.sistent in his dealings with foreign nations. He believes that we should pro­tect American interests first, achieving 
"peace through strength." 
CHARACTER ISSUE: Dole believes that 
the president should be a role model with 
his own actions as the example for what is 
right. He would espouse a policy of "love 
of God and Country and family. commit­
ment to honesty, decency and personal 
responsibility and self teliance tempered 
by a sense of community." 
Ross PEROT 
REFORM PARTY CANDIDATE 
THE ECONOMY: With four of the Reform Party's ten Principles of Reform devoted to economic issues, the econo­my is an important focus of the party campaign. Perot supports a Balanced Budget Amendment to the Constitution. If elected, he would eradicate the Internal Revenue Service as it is known and replace it with a "paperless, mod­ern system." Another main focus of the Perot campaign is the creation of jobs in the United States as opposed to send­ing jobs overseas. 
EDUCATION: Perot believes that the government should restore local control over schools and make schools "places of learning, not play." He also stresses the role of extensive parental involve­ment in the educational process. 
FOREIGN POLICY: Perot recognizes the importance of strong international relations, but emphasizes that these relations should not be achieved at the expense of American jobs. 
CHARACTER ISSUE: One of the principles of the Reform party is the high ethical standards for the White House and in Congress. 

R
obert Joseph 
Dole was 
born July 22, 
1923. A deco­
rated World 
War II hero, 
Dole went on to 
a position in the 
State legisla­
ture. Going on 
to win positions 
as the County 
Attorney, in the 
House of 
Representatives 
and in the U.S . 
Senate, Dole 
retired from his 
position as 
Senate Majority 
leader as the 
longest serving 
member ofthe 
Senate in its 
history. His 
running mate is 
Jack Kemp. 

"L)eginning with l..J various jobs 
at age seven, 
Perot worked his 
way to the top, 
building a self­
started. a multi­
billion dollar cor­
poration compa­
ny, Electronic 
Data Systems. 
He sold the com­
pany to General 
Motors in 1984 
and started a 
new company, 
Perot Systems. 
In 1969. after his 
work to get 
POW's released, 
he was awarded 
the Medal for 
Distinguished 
Service. Pat 
Choate is his 
running mate. 

page 6 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS Monday, November 4, 1996 
career and professional ambitions as 
young men at Notre Dame, and they tend 
to. be more attracted to the party that



Survey Trends Run 
continued from page 1 continued from page 1 emphasizes equal rights and equal continued from page 1 opportunity." 
was mirrored by the students' overall back­ing of the Republican Party. More than 44 percent of undergraduates say they general­ly agreed with the GOP, while more students said they considered themselves indepen­dent -at 26.0 percent -rather than back the Democratic Party, which was supported by 24.4 percent. 
The large group of independent, moderate voters suggested that Clinton could be a more formidable force on campus if he were able to sway that voting sect, according to one of the survey's organizers. 
"This is a moderate population that Clinton just hasn't captured," said Matthew Dull, co-president of Pi Sigma Alpha, the campus political science honor society. 
The survey also asked whether those who had a presidential preference actually intended to vote. About 73 percent said they were registered to vote, and 62.6 percent said they planned to vote. Roughly six per­cent were ineligible to cast a ballot. 
The fact that one-third of the students have chosen not to vote appears to hurt Clinton more than Dole. The pre!?idential preference among all surveyed students favored Dole, at 45.3 percent, over Clinton, at 32.3 percent. 
But when the results were compiled for those who will vote, Dole's support jumped to the aforementioned figure of 53.5 per­cent, while Clinton received only a modest gain of four-tenths of a point. 
Among other highlights of the survey: 
• A breakdown of the results shows that Clinton has greater support among women than men. 
Just over 39 percent of all female students who were surveyed favor Clinton, whereas 
26.7 percent of men chose the incumbent. Dole, while still ahead of Clinton among women. had greater support from the men. 
Women made up 46.5 percent of those who were polled. 
• The survey also asked if there was any single issue that determined an individual's vote. Abortion was the most frequently cited topic, at 5.9 percent. Taxes and the economy were cited by four percent. 
of their economic interests." 
While Leege doesn't expect to find overwhelming support for the pro-choice movement at Notre Dame, he feels that Notre Dame students are likely to .be more moderate than their parents and grandparents when it comes to abortion and other social issues such as gay rights. 
"While Notre Dame would not have a high percentage of Catholics who would want abortion under all circumstances, there is still a large portion who might want abortion in all or certain cases, such as those involving rape or the life of the mother," Leege said. "The generation as a whole does not want abortion out­lawed in all cases. 
"And relative to their grandparents and some of their parents, they're also likely to be more moderate on gay rights issues." 
Some of these trends can be seen in the views of certain Notre Dame under­graduates who, like senior William McLaughlin, consider themselves Republicans but aren't overwhelmingly concerned with the abortion issue. McLaughlin, who calls himself a "pretty conservative" Republican, said, ''I'm pro­life, but that isn't a huge issue for me." 
Among the other trends uncovered in recent studies on Catholic voting is the tendency for Catholic women to be much more supportive of Democratic candi­dates than Catholic men. In the NBC News-Wall Street Journal poll, Clinton and Dole came out virtually even among Catholic men -44 percent to 43 percent -but among Catholic women Clinton led 62 percent to 26 percent. 
Despite the popularity of the Republican Party on campus, Leege would expect to see a similar trend among women at Notre Dame. 
"By 1992 there was a massive move­ment of women to the Democratic Party," Leege said. "Young women at Notre Dame tend to have the same 
Another surprising discovery made by Leege is that Catholics who attend mass regularly are more likely to support Democratic candidates, while those who attend mass less frequently are more likely to support Republican candidates. 
But Leege says that this trend may not hold at Notre Dame, where more than half of the largely-Republican student body -according to some estimates ­attends weekly mass. 
"Notre Dame is probably immune to some of those generalizations," Leege said. "This is a Catholic university that takes its Catholicism very seriously. It's part of the culture here that people attend mass and attend frequently. So those findings might not necessarily apply at Notre Dame. 
"There are more opportunities to go to mass here. The experience is so much different for Notre Dame students than it is for other young Catholics." 
Similarly, Leege points out that, while the voting habits of Notre Dame students are very similar to those of other young Catholics in some respects, there are dif­ferences -especially when considering the background and socio-economic sta­tus of most of the Notre Dame student body. 
"Notre Dame students tend to come from homes that are very advantaged," Leege said, "and they chose to come to a Catholic university that is very Catholic. On the one hand, they are attracted to the Republican Party in keeping with their suburban roots. On the other hand, they are often drawn to providing oppor­tunities for people who are less advan­taged than they are. 
"In a sense, Notre Dame is not a micro­cosm of the voting Catholic community. At the same time, though, Notre Dame has become more heterogeneous tn the background of its students, and that will have a healthy effect on the campus." 
The Washington Post and Commonweal contributed to this report. 
dent and sponsor of this week­end's event. 
Each year pledges for the Fun Run benefit the Mara Fox Memorial Scholarship Fund, which provides support to a sophomore who has chosen to study for a semester in Spain. Fox had planned on going to Spain her sophomore year. 
The fund was founded by Lyons Hall, where Fox lived, and the members of the 1993­1994 Freshmen Class Council. This is the first year in which a recipient of the scholarship has studied abroad. 
While the exact amount raised for the Memorial Scholarship Fund is unknown at this time, it is estimated that totals will be similar to past years. 
Fox's parents, who attended the run this weekend, were said to be very happy with the amount of people from the South Bend and Notre Dame community who showed for the run. 
"It's a good thing to remem-­ber people and their presence in our lives," said Lyons Rectress Kathleen Beatty. 
The driver of the car, John !Uta, who at the time was a third-year law student at Notre Dame, is still awaiting deci­sions on numerous appeals made during the duration of his trial in November, 1994. 
Por favor. recicla El Observer. 
~I 


at SAINT MARY'S 
Rooms are available at The Inn at Saint Mary's 
Friday & Saturday night for the 


Pittsburgh and Rutgers Games 
Call while they last 
219-232-4000 

*Frcmantle, Australia*Innsbruck, Austria*Monterrey, Mexico*London* 
* ~ >* 
~International Study Days'96 ~ 
0 ~ 
S Presented by: .!" 
~ ~ 
* ·~•»n = 
~ ~
'0 0
c

~ * 
~ a
-
g:~ ..ci 
8 _s· ~ Where: 201 O'Shaug nessy Hall @ 
~ ~ 
:::E When: Monday, Nov. 4 and Tuesday, Nov. 5, 1996 5. * * 
] Information on all programs will be Ql u available all day on both days (8:00am-9:00pm) [
• 0 
~ On-campus representatives of these programs will be available to ~ 
~ 
·g answer your questions as follows: '¥. 
~ MONDAY TUESDAY =* 
~ lnnsbruck-2:00 -3:00 Mexico City -1:00-2:00 ;:: fr~ Monterrey -2:00-3:00 Angers -2:00-3:00 g ~ ': London '98-'99 -2:00-3:00 Cairo -2:00-3:00 Y' s Jerusalem -3:30-4:30 Athens -2:00-3:00 ~ ~ Santiago -4:00-5:00 Fremantle -3:00-4:00 ~ 
z ~ 
**Mexico City* Semester Around The World*Cairo, Egypt* Jerusalem* 

Notre Dame employees 
You have a choice in health plans. To designate Saintjoseph sMedical Center asyour prefen-ed hospital select either Family Health Plan of 
., 
Indiana or CIGNA.
I 
I 

The ability to s*C:i: a health plan ofyour choice is one ofthe benefits ofbeing a Notre Dame employee. This is an important decision. And to make this decision you need as much information as possible. 
That's why Saint Joseph's Medical Center, through the Select Health Network, wants you to know the only way you can make sure we are your hospital ofchoice is by selecting either Family Health Plan oflndiana or CIGNA. 
Why is this important? Because Saint Joseph's Medical Center has served people like you throughout Michiana for over 100 years. Our tradition ofcare is second to none. And Saint Joseph's provides a full continuum ofquality health care services to serve virtually any heald1 care need. For example, our cardiology department has one ofthe most successful records in the country. The obstetrics unit at Saint Joseph's features the most modern, fully-equipped birthing suites (LDRPs) in the area as well as a state-of-the-art neonatal intensive care unit (NICU). Our cancer program is likewise nationally renowned. And the Medical Center's C.A.RF.-accredited pain and rehabilitation programs have helped hundreds ofMichiana residents successfully get back on their feet, back to their jobs and back to a normal life. 
Ofcourse, there are many other reasons why the people ofMichiana prefer Saint joseph's Medical Center. So make sure d1at you have access to the broad range ofSaint Joseph's Medical Center services. When it comes time to choose your health plan, select Family Health Plan oflndiana or CIGNA. 
A Saint Joseph's 'tJ' Medical Center 
801 E. LaSalle Ave. • South Bend, IN 46617 A Member of Sa tnt Joseph"s Care Group and the Holy Cross Health System 
© Sainr Joseph's Medical Cenrer -1996 

Monday, November 4, 1996 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS page 7 

Flu sh=o=t=s==a=v==a==a"=i=l=a==o::::;\JJ,:Al==,1==e=>:=r:=,t=~~!'fi==i:{::::::;;,,~,:::::::r~l==iis=":,=:=====::::::==::::::=::::::::;--.:L~e-t_t_e_r______t_=~-~~-p~-i-~~-~~-f-~~-ut-h~-;a-t~-~:-!e::._i-=-:n-~~
1 
Observer Staff Report 
University Heath Services will offer free flu shots to all Notre Dame students, faculty, administrators and staff. 
The shots will be given out on Tuesday through Thursday from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m in the 
Hesburgh Library Concourse or the Dooley wear short sleeves 

Room of the LaFortune Student Center. 
Influenza is a h~ghly contagigus disease with syJ;Uptoms includin,g: . headac}i¢S; congestion1 . sore throat, bronehitis and sometimes pneumo~
nia.. ·'T':. In order to receive the immunization, people must bring Notre e identification cards and 

Irish 
continued from page 1 
hours to London and across the ocean to Dublin." 
After the game, Murphy grabbed her compatriots and ran out to try to catch up with her friends in the Notre Dame band. The move was success­ful, as she hugged her former roommate Colleen Hickey. 
"I wondered if I'd see you here," Hickey said. She was one of many band members who were talking with their traveling friends. 
The celebration later moved to the 'Notre Dame occupied' Fitzsimons Pub. A large crowd of London program students were greeted by close and mutual friends, all excited to see each other. 
"Everywhere I turn, I recog­nize a face," London student Mark Huffman said. "It's great; I know everyone here." 
The Innsbruck students showed up to Fitzsimons as 

Do You Want to Cast an Informed Vote Tomorrow? 
If so, 

Attend the Student/Faculty Mock Presidential Debate 
November 4, 1996 Stapleton Lp:~J.Ag~ (Lel\fan Hall) 7:00p.m.~ 9:00 d.m. 
' 

Come and learn more about the issue$ and platforms of the two major parties. Questions w'll be wekomed. Refreshments will be rved. 
},:~}~~~,=··:·· 

Sponsored by: The SMC Political Science Club and the SMC College Republicans Club 
well, but without their banner that won them so much atten­tion from television cameras. 
"This makes me miss Notre Dame," Hinsman said at the pub. "It felt so great to sing the victory march, watch the football team earlier and espe­cially to see everyone." 
All students from Saint Mary's and Notre Dame study­ing abroad this year will 
meet again in Innsbruck for Christmas. But this time, there will be no football game. 
continued from page 1 
concerns and community life, to its current status as an 82­page booklet "void of all refer­ence to the religious and spiri­tual life inherent in the tradi­tion of the Notre Dame Community." 
Additionally, the letter states, "While student rights in disci­plinary proceedings were once a focal point of Du Lac, they have since been entirely elimi­nated." 
The letter is a new approach to the issue, in that it simply requests open discussion and is not a list of specific suggestions of how to change Du Lac. "It's a real positive approach," said Seth Miller, Student Body President. "We just want to discuss [student rights] with the administration. That's what a community is all about," continued Miller. 
As Judicial Council President, Ryan Mcinerney, a major are more interested in the issue now than in the past, and that makes addressing the issue a lot easier. 
"The student body is starting to become aware of our lack of student rights. It is an issue that students are aware of, and that helps," said Mcinerney. 
The letter was signed by each member of the Student Senate, in a display of unanimous con­cern for students. "This was done to show that not only is the Senate as a body concerned about the lack of student rights, but each student leader (in the Senate) is concerned individually," said Mcinerney. 
Mcinerney also noted what he considers the failure on the part of O'Hara to fulfill her duty as Vice President of Student Affairs in responding to past letters from Student Government. "Professor O'Hara historically has not responded to letters from Student Senate. I feel that's absurd and ridiculous." 
The letter concludes by reit­erating the Senate's desire for open discussion regarding the lack of student rights: "As stu­dent leaders of our University community, we ask for your assistance in facilitating this discussion." 
PLEASE RECYCLE 
THE 

OBSERVER 









VIEWPOINT 
page 8 Monday, November 4, 1996 

• DOONESBURY GARRY TRUDEAU 

• 0UOTE OF THE DAY 
"}like long walks, especial­ly when they are taken by people who annoy me." 
-Fred Allen 

THE OBSERVER 
NoTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAII'IT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1996-97 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Elizabeth Foran Managing Editors Business Manager Patricia Carson Matt Casey Tom Roland 

News Editor ........................ Brad Prendergast Advertising Manager ............................ Ellen Ryan Viewpoint Editor................... Ethan Hayward Ad Design Manager .......................... , .... jed Peters Sporu Editor ...................Timothy Sherman Production Managcr....................... Tara Grieshop Accent Editor ........................... Joey Crawford Systems Manager ....................... Michael Brouillet 
Saint Mary's Editor ................. Caroline Blum Controller.......................................... Tyler Weber Photo Editor .......................... Michael Ruma 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administra­tion ofeither institution. The news is reponed as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned edi­torials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Comm~ntarics, lcncrs and Inside Columns present the views of the authors, and not necessarily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's com­municy and to all readers. The free expression ofvarying opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Editor-in-Chief Managing EditorNicwpoint Spans News/Photo Accem/Saim Mary's Day Editor/Production General Information 
• EDITORIAL 
The Observer refuses to endorse candidate 
Perhaps mimicking a microcosm of the A.tneticanelectotate¥ T~e Observer is not endorsing a presidential candidate in this year's elec~ tion. 
Republican candidate Bob Dole purports the image of a more stable, less fiasco-ridden government and his supporters claim that his Democratic opponent has tried to accomplish too many objectives dur­ing his administration, and in doing so has failed. to dedicate suffiCient amounts of time or attention to more focused issues. The anti-abortion> stance, especially President Clinton's refusal to sign the partial birth abortion ban bill, and possible tax increases are other issues ofconcern to GOP supporters. 

Character issues, such as "Whitewatergate,'' St}xual misconduct alle­gations, the FBI flies found in the White House and~ m()~t recently,eam· paign financing concerns have plagued Clinton's a,drninistration fronr. day one. Dole bas the quality of character, and he has proved hirilselfa · moral and responsible leader during his record time in the Senate. He has proven his consistency and integrity, not to mention dedication to the American people, time and time again during his Senate years. 
On the other hand, Dole may be too old and out of touch with the younger generations of Americans to connect with their needs or pro• vide any real vision for the future of the country. 
Clinton stands for improving education from the federal level and maintaining current spending levels, while the bottom·UP' approach Dole has espoused would take too long to install to have any perceivable effect. Dole would begin to "reform" education by cutting federal educa-. tion spending, making a college degree even more of a e"pense than it already is and unaffordable for a great many more Americans. His idea of making a high school education equivalent to two years of college is impractical at best, and would place higher education out of reach for a sizable portion of American youths. while allowing the privilege for only wealthy students. 
Clinton also has done a respectable job with the country thus far and deserves credit for trying to accomplish many of his goals, although impeded by a Hepublican congressional majority, The government shut~ down earlier this year and at the end of last year was largely the responsibility of the Republican dominated Congress. 
Both candidates have the necessary qualifications to run the country, and run it welL Individual ideas and platforms could also prove to sig­nificantly benefit one group, while excluding another. The issue of edu· cation will affect all young people. especially those !'>eeking to go to col· lege, while the idea of a tax cut will appeal to many people. 
Although Clinton will most likely win the election, constituents, espe­cially students, must make a decision on the issues that matter to them and will have the most impact on them, their families and their futures, including the future of the country. The fact that The Observer is not endorsing a candidate does not mean that its editorial board members are shirking their civic duty. This election, like all others, is about mak• lng personal decisions. We wish you the best in making that decision Tuesday. 
Observer Phone LiQeS 
631-4542  Business Office  631-5313  
631-4541  Advertising  631-6900/8840  
631-4543  Systems/Marketing Dept.  631-8839  
631-5323  Office Manager  631-7471  
631-4540  Fax  631-6927  
631-5303  Viewpoint  E-Mail  Viewpoint.! @nd.edu  
631-7471  Ad E-Mail  observer@darwin.cc.nd.edu  


~~~~~~7-""1 
• lEITER TO THE EDITOR 
Grad student calls for trash sale: ND neglecting marketable 
Dear Editor: 
A recent letter decried the "commercial­ism" surrounding Notre Dame football. Such an accusation is unfair. We must remember that it takes a lot of money to run a heavily bureaucratic institution like Notre Dame with all of its deans, provosts, rectors, gover­nors, prefects, counselors, hewers of wood, drawers of wood, etc. 
If anything, the "suits" and "collars" under the Dome are failing to recognize the full commercial potential of Notre Dame football. Consider, for example, that great untapped resource right under our feet: the fan trash that so liberally adorns the campus following home games. 
Rather than carting all those beer cans and bratwurst wrappers off to the dump, why not place them in specially made blue and gold Notre Dame trash bags (with the official interlocking ND in the middle, of course) and 


Alumnae: SMC has more pastoral approach to students than ND 
Dear Editor: 
As a Saint Mary's alumna, I am very proud of how my alma mater handled National Coming Out Day for gay, lesbian and bisexual persons. By promoting human rights, the senior offi­cers have remained true to the Christian ideal upon which the College was founded. This recognizes that Christ welcomes every­one with love, compassion and respect for human digni­ty. 
Four weeks ago, Saint Mary's remained true to its mission of providing an "environment where women grow in their appreciation of the strengths and needs of others." It also displayed a true commitment to "contin­ually assessing its response to the complex needs and challenges of the contempo­rary world." 
No doubt there was much soul-searching before the use of LeMans Hall was approved, but those in the chain of responsibility are to be commented. What is right is not often easy. 
I am pleased that Saint Mary's officials have taken a more pastoral and pioneer­ing approach to their stu­

sell the souvenir trash to the football faithful before and after home games? As an added touch, the bags could be signed by Coach Holtz and the reigning quarterback. What person wouldn't want such a lovely and meaningful piece of Notre Dame football memorabilia? 
I'm no financial wizard, but I'll bet that we could make enough money from fan trash to heat the Basilica for a year. llere, then, is the pot of gold at the end of Notre Dame's rainbow. 
Thus, I say to the "suits" and "collars" under the Dome: Wake up! Think trash! 
JEFF TRUSCOTT 
Graduate student, Theology 

dents than Notre Dame's leaders appear to be taking. 
By allowing their students· to "engage in all aspects of the college experience," including exercising their rights to free speech and assembly, Saint Mary's administrators and trustees demonstrated that they are sincerely committed to developing liberally educated women. 
CAROL CONRAD 
Saint Mary's '63 
South Bend, IN 



VIEWPOINT
Monday, November 4, 1996 page 9 
• lETIERS TO THE EDITOR 
Friday editorial elicits differing responses 
Dear Editor: 
For the past several years, Notre Dame has been involved in a discussion of what it means to be a Catholic university. This discussion has taken place on several lev­els, all the way from the top levels of the Dome to classrooms and lunchrooms. A recent letter to the editor, though, by James Friday III (The Observer, Oct. 16), puts them all in their place. 
I will not claim to be unbiased here: James and I were in the same Theology 100 class last year in his first semester here. At least some of what I have to say must therefore be considered in the light of that course. 
I cannot imagine a clearer and more straightforward demonstration of what it means to BE a Catholic university than to admit, educate, _and learn from, students like James. 
Do you need to see compassion? His letter is full of it. Objective facts? Check them out. Subjective and real-life experiences? They're there. Pathos? YOU try spitting into the racial wind around here. Rhetorical sophistication? In nine short para­graphs, he covered the field, all the way from conceptual argumentation to autobi­ography. Make a significant contribution to life? I wouldn't want to be a scholarship athlete or a computer engineering major, much less both. Living out the good news of Jesus? I challenge anyone on this campus to do that more clearly than his last paragraph. 
James has illustrated the essence of what it means to be both catholic AND Catholic. The essence of Catholicism is not the legalistic text-thumping that we reg­ularly read from Charles Rice. It's not "God made Notre Dame number one." It's not a certain percentage of the faculty, or staff, or student body, signing up in the "Roman Catholic" column when they get hired or admitted here. 
It's not the Pope's boast that ND students attend Mass more regularly than stu­dents at any other Catholic school. It's not the University's sinful arrogance in rejecting GLND/SMC's application for normal student status on the grounds that the group contradicts Church teaching on sexual ethics -thereby neatly flipping off the Catholic orthodoxy of every other Catholic college and university in this country that does authorize such groups. 
No, Friday has illustrated that the essence of Catholicism lies in the decisions that you and I make each and every day to treat others has we have been treated by Christ: with acceptance, love, and above all, undeserved grace. Until we make those little decisions with regularity, we will never be prepared to make the bigger ones with integrity. 
The Catholic view of Christianity starts by recognizing the eternal importance of the smallest events and the smallest details of life, because those are where every­one lives with God. Few of us will grow up to be Pope or President, but all of us are crucial in God's eyes every second of the day. Until we stop cheering for James when he is a football player but locking our car doors when he is a pedestrian, we are not prepared to be either catholic or Catholic. 
Thank you, James, for reflecting what we talked about in class better than I taught it, and for being one of the persons who makes this place Catholic. 
KERN TREMBATH Assistant Chairman Department ofTheology 
Dear Editor: 
Boy, can writing be misunderstood. After reading James Friday's letter to the editor·, I knew I had to voice my opinion once again to the defense of myself and my beliefs. As a person who has never even contemplated the word "racist" as part of my personal ideology, it troubles me to think that I am viewed in that way. It doesn't just trouble me, it upsets me. 
My life was not endangered at my homecoming dance. I guess it's harder than I thought to express sarcasm in writing. I'll be first to admit that I picked a horri­ble example in the football team to illustrate that minorities have a place here at Notre Dame. I agree completely with Friday that just because one cheers for him on Saturdays doesn't mean one wants to be his friend Sunday through Friday. The football team was the first thing that came to my mind. 
I should have mentioned people like Shandell and Kip from my chemistry lab, or Jamiko and Rhonda from my English classes; people like Justin Johnson, who, while studying to be a doctor, still finds time to be one of the best pianists on campus. These are the people who exemplify the fact that blacks do belong here and are a part of Notre Dame and her family. 
Since my article was published, I have had the fortune of speaking with Nikole Hannah. I was sitting in the dining hall when she came up to me and introduced herself. At first, the conversation was a little rough, but two hours later, we were speaking like old friends. We realized that each of us had misinterpreted parts of the other's article. We still disagreed about some things, but we had learned to agree to disagree. 
I think the main problem here is not racism but rather comfort. The fact that minorities are so under-represented causes uncomfortable feelings among mem­bers of different races and comfortable feelings among members of the same race. An example of this is the dining hall~ while blacks may sit with blacks and whites may sit with whites, it's not about racism -it's about comfort and being with one's friends. I would like to say this to Friday: I think that it's a lack of comfort you are witnessing in the classroom and around campus, not racism. 
In response to Friday's remark about the use of the word "nigger," I still do not buy it and find it extremely hypocritical to use the word. Oh, I see, "nigga" is dif­ferent from "nigger," just like "f-ka" is different from "f-ker," and "bee-atch" is different from "b-tch." While changing a part of the word to make an "accepted" derivative, the root of the word still has no redeeming quality whatsoever. Just because this type of slang has become accepted for many people, it does not make it morally right to use it. 
Are we fighting a war that can never be won? While I'd like to think we're not, I really don't know and neither did Hannah. The only thing we can do is to con­tinue to try to improve relations among different races. However, I think that we're missing an important aspect of this process. While forums and panel dis­cussions may be excellent places for expressing opinions, the inside of an audito­rium, lecture hall, or newspaper is not the real world. We need to come together in non-organized situations; we need to hang out with each other on weekends, eat meals together, etc. The only way relations are going to improve is if we qnderstand each other, and the best way to accomplish this is through informal, heart-to-heart, natural communication. 
After a long week, it's always good to go to CJ's on Friday night. My friends and I will be there next week. Jimmy, Nikole, Justin, Tia: if you want to come, there's room in the car, and the invitation is always extended. 
JOSH GERLOFF Sophomore, Keenan Hall 

• THE DISCOURSE 
Capital punishment neither humane nor effective 
Capital punishment continues to be the subject of much debate in America. The question of whether capital punish­ment is cruel and unusual has been argued in many courtrooms over the past few decades. However, the appro­priateness of capital punishment in American society can be discussed from 

Sean Seymore 
other perspectives. 
Many states are turning to lethal injec­tion as the preferred method of execu­tion. Americans who might have consid­ered electrocution, hanging, and lethal gas brutal have accepted lethal injec­tion, because the antiseptic nature of the technique is reminiscent of a medical procedure. Proponents of lethal injection often explain that the actual technique is far from cruel, because the con­demned is simply put to sleep. It should be noted that all techniques used to inflict capital punishment frequently lead to protracted and repulsive deaths, usually as a direct result of human error. 
If the choice of method of execution is to be made on the promptness of death, I have found that when administered properly, hanging and electrocution cause instantaneous death due to injury to the medulla oblongata ·and paralysis, respectively. Therefore, in considering the extent to which the condemned must suffer physically at the moment of exe­cution, hanging, electrocution, and lethal injection are comparable. As far as the condemned is concerned, the method of execution ultimately becomes meaningless. The simple truth is that the condemned will enter into the death chamber alive, and will be removed as a corpse. Therefore, I am convinced that the widespread acceptance of lethal injection has little to do with the con­demned. Quite simply, witnessing deaths by electrocution, hanging, and lethal gas are unpleasant; persons condoning the infliction of such techniques might be considered gauche or barbaric. Therefore, lethal injection soothes the guilty conscience; it allows Americans to accept capital punishment due to some perceived, though mistaken, sense of humaneness. 
There is no convincing evidence that supports the argument that capital pun­ishment deters murder. In fact, the average rates of criminal homicide in the twelve abolitionist states is lower than that in the thirty-eight death penal­ty states. Even though some argue that more frequent executions would deter murder, this has proven to be false in the twentieth-century America. For example, New York executed 692 per­sons between 1907 and 1964. However, during this period the average criminal homicide rate increased by two each month following an execution. Failure to deter crime can explain in part why many countries abandoned public exe­cution during the nineteenth century. Noteworthy among these nations is England, which proved to be the country most obsessed with capital punishment for over six centuries. Detailed accounts of public executions in America reveal that the events were usually spectacles charged with vengeance, indecency, and demented thought; absent was any les­son. Capital punishment might have deterred crime in the distant past, but it does so no more. 

Americans have become desensitized to murder, which most likely has obliter­ated the deterring effect of capital pun­ishment. America has stated that in cer­tain cases, murder is acceptable; or that some murders are worse than others. Premeditated murders, and murders resulting from felonious acts are usually deemed unacceptable; the death penalty is sought in many of these cases. However, there is a new class of mur­ders which arise from the "abuse excuse," a term popularized during the first ·trial of the Menendez brothers. No longer are persons willing to work out their differences; murder is becoming the preferred method for handling prob­lems.The "abuse excuse" has been employed by a wide variety of murder defendants, ranging from victims of child and spousal abuse to gang mem­bers, who assert that they kill because they never had decent male role models to teach them how to behave. When a society no longer respects human life, capital punishment becomes ineffective. 
A close examination of several death penalty cases reveals an unsettling result: everyone is not guaranteed due process and equal treatment under the law. Quite simply, death penalty convic­tions are made with bias. For example, whether the death penalty is sought in a particular case is usually at the discre­tion of a district attorney, who is always wondering, "Can I win this one?" If the 
·defendant has a stellar defense team, often the death penalty is either not sought or a plea bargain is made. The jury is another problem. There have been plenty of cases where heinous murders have been committed; yet in spite of convincing evidence, the jury fails to sentence the defendant to death possibly due to the defendant's good looks, apparent sense of remorse, socioeconomic class, race; or family lin­eage. 
In spite of these shortcomings, capital punishment is still supported by many Americans. The reason why capital pun­ishment still exists in America is not for deterrence or protection, but vengeance. This is surprising in a society so deeply rooted in Christian principles.Death is the most merciless punishment that society can inflict, yet Christianity is a religion that is based on mercy. The Christian tradition teaches that each human faces a death sentence for com­mitting the grievous crime of sin. However, before the imposition of the final sentence, a stay of execution was granted by God -the good news being delivered by Jesus Christ. The death sentence has now been commuted to eternal life. Maybe more Americans should remember "The Great Commutation" when considering the appropriateness of capital punishment. 
Sean Seymore is a graduate student in inorganic chemistry. 


~··;;;. 
"""'"''' 

Movie Mo111day "" 
~ 

Monday, November 4, 1996
page 10 
• Now PLAYING 


By MARK TORMA Cats" Antonio Banderas-style, with Accent Movie Critic flashing pistols, a twitching moustache, and unquenchable ire. 
As for the title roles, much has been 
1 fair Verona Beach, they went to made of the casting of Leonardo 
he mattresses, those Montagues DiCaprio and Claire Danes, and it should 
and Capulets of the new movie, be remembered for years to come that "Shakespeare's Romeo and Juliet." they came through in the clutch, so to Blood was shed, though not much; kiss­speak. No one could have expected es were exchanged, and many of them. DiCaprio to take a sullen young punk Through it all, this greatest and successfully turn him into the classi­Shakespearean tragedy of love and cal model of romantic manhood: no one death flows verbatim from the mouths of could have expected Danes to give punks, cops and mafiosi, and two star­Juliet's cloying femininity the edge to crossed tncnage lovers lind their end in become not only believable, but truly each other's arms -just like they have dramatic. That they did so is a huge for 400 years. pleasure, as well as a sign of enormous 
As crazy as it seems, it's only fair to talent, and no one who sees their cli­say that Baz Luhrmann's new cinematic mactic scene in the Capulet mausoleum version of the Shakespearean classic is a will ever be able to forget it (this is a 
faithful adaptation of the original. Yes, promise.) "faithful;" for the attitude, posturing, To wit, "Homeo and Juliet" is a suc­and zooming cinematography that ce.n cess as a movie; it is one with its flaws
Claire Danes and Leonardo DiCaprio star in William Shakespeare's "Romeo and Juliet." 
assault the audience at times, what the and its ups and downs, but it is a suc­audience really gets is the same simple, death by killing Tybalt, drilling him with the family heads, give the film sufficient cess nonetheles~. precisely because it is yet monumental love story. The tele­his "Rapier 9mm." One of the more gravity; Pete Postlethwaite, as Father not merely a theatrical production on vised previews, while appealing in cer­endearing parts of this clever conception Lawrence, adds a mystical edge to the film, but a sequential mix of images, dia­tain ways, actually do a disservice to this of a modern-day Verona is the transfor­proceedings. The rest of the supporting logue, and action captured in a wide film: although it was obviously promoted mation of Shakespearean language into cast was really just as good, with the visual range. Its greatest virtue is that it to bring in the action genre audience the corporate trademarks seen dotting possible exception of Benvolio and his cannot help but appeal to both ends of (which admittedly, is mostly male), it the landscape on buildings and bill­cronies, a band of Green Day wannabes the moviegoing spectrum: the action is nevertheless is a multidimensional boards. The Montague and Capulet who were a bit historic at times -not a riveting, but the love story holds its movie. Director Luhrmann has handled names themselves become as Hyatt and John Wayne in the bunch, though. ground, and in the end the tragedy, not the placid scenes of romantic dialogue Hilton, Reebok and Nike, Coke and As they should be, the real jewels are the fireworks, is what is most memo­well -better than the frantic action Pepsi. The respective families' muscle is the youngest in this celluloid troupe. rable, captured as it is in the tears drip­sequences. flexed even more by the massive cathe­Harold Perrineau, as Mercutio, and the ping down audience cheeks. Yes, this is 
Not to give away too much of a secret, drals erected in the midst of the urban flashy John Leguizamo, as Tybalt, pro­the perfect date movie, for both parties but most of these action scenes consist crawl. vide comic relief even as they await involved -that's just as Shakespeare of nothing more than the aforemen­The city, sprawling and monstrous as their tragic ends. Perrineau struts his would have wanted it. tioned male posturing: most of the time, it is, is successfully upstaged by the cast, way across his first scenes as a snowy­the bravado of the Montague and whose cosmopolitan character is as winged transvestite; Leguizamo digs into Mark Torma is a senior anthropology Capulet "boys" is the only thing shooting impressive as its quality is in perfor­the arsenal of identities from his one­major from Alliance, Ohio. ofl' on the screen. That is, until the text mance. Solid supporting turns by man show, "Spic-0-Rama," for his char­
demands that Romeo avenge Mercutio's Charles Dennehy and Paul Sorvino, as acterization: he plays "the Prince of 
Getting on This 'Bus' a Definite Must 
I
By JOSHUA BECK black men marching on the black male population, concerned because his sixteen this movie is that Spike Lee Accent Movie Critic capital was not met, officially at although the men try to con­year-old daughter is now preg­didn't act in it. This probably least 500,000 black males from vince them otherwise. This is nant. Near the back of the bus, allotted him more time in which across the United States arrived very ·characteristic of two gay lovers try to resolve to direct it. As a result, this t is in no way a rarity for a to hear the minister's message. Farrakahn's work in the black their differences as one is a movie is by far his masterpiece lilmmaker to create a gen­The march was created by population, as many of his ser­spoken homosexual while one and one of the best films of uinely great film that comes Minister Farrakahn to call mons and meetings have been is unwilling to admit his sexual 1996. People who have seen from deep inside his heart. For black men together in one place accomplished without the rep­preferences. An innocent col­'Malcolm X' realize that Spike Spike Lee, the controversial to discuss the problems and resentation of women. lege student from UCLA is Lee is capable of something director who has made ten issues that face them today. Other issues besides the role attempting to videotape the great. And while that movie films in the past ten years, The film cites this as the main of women in black society are entire trip for a film class. An was a great work of film, 'Get these have been few and far reason for these twenty men to discussed through the different arroga~ movie actor feels that on the Bus' blows it and every­between. His movie exploits attend this historic event. stories of each man on the bus, he must insinuate every man on thing else this man has done during the past decade have As in the bus out of the water. The greatest included films such as "Do The a n y to a facet of this movie is that any­Hight Thing," "Malcolm X," and Spike fight. A one, not just a black person, the recent picture, "Girl 6." Ile L e e gang­can watch it and enjoy it for has done many different lilms film, the hanger what it is. The movie flows involving a variety of issues but issues turned smoothly, each of the charac­has always stuck with the role of the devout ters is developed remarkably, of black people in society as his black Muslim and by the end almost every main theme. Some, such as commu­tries to man resolves in some way to be "Do The Hight Thing" and nity are account better than he was before. "Malcolm X," have really hit the present­for his Although the list of actors won't mark and become symbolic of ed and past. A seem familiar for the most part, pop American culture. Others, d i s -mulato the acting is impeccable and including ".Jungle Fever" and cussed c 0 p there are a few recognizable "Girl 6," were failures in the by the w h 0 people. The best performance box office because of their differ­con sid­is given by Charles S. Dutton as vague and boring main points. e n t e r s the representative of the bus llowever. with his newest film, charac­himself company who keeps the trip "Gt~t On the Bus," Spike Lee has t e r s . black moving along and everybody in shown that he can create an T h e tries to check. His fiery speech at the extraordinary movie that comes topics l'it in end is exceptionally done and is straight from his soul and a r e with the symbolic of what the entire makes us all look into ours. many entirely movie is about. This film is not only a monu­and mainly deal with the role of which is really where this black population of the bus. Everyone should see this film. ment to the black race, it is the black man in society as movie shines. Spike Lee One of the best characters It is not only about the journey morn a journey into the hearts compared to the black woman. doesn't hold back as every man comes in the form of an old of twenty black men to a his­of twenty men as they ride their This, of course, is referring to on the bus is typical of an issue man who is attending the toric march, it is an inward way into history. one of the many controversies in today's black society. Every march as the final event of his journey into the hearts of 
The basic premise of the lilm that was sparked by the Million man has an entirely different life. The best character, how­everyone involved; that is, is sirnplt~: the detailing of a Man March; i.e. the disclusion story and you can see each ever, is the representative of every character in the movie journey that starts on a bus in of women among the partici­character developing through­the bus line who appears to be and each character in the the­Los Angeles and ends in pants. During the film. this out the film. The movie begins the only man without any out­ater who arrived for the best Washington, D.C. at the Million topic is addressed when the with a father and son who are ward problems or aggressions. picture of the year. Man March led by Minister men talk to different black handcuffed together for seven­He acts as more of the modera­Louis Farrakahn. The march women along the road. The ty-two hours as part of a court tor between all of them with his Joshua Beck is a sophomore occurred in 1995 and while the main feeling of women is anger order because the boy commit­insights and words of wisdom. English and communications desired estimate of a million at not being accepted by the ted robbery. The bus driver is Perhaps the best thing about major from Houstin, Texas. 


Football 
1996 

Hurtin' 
Notre Dame Navy Holtz 
Irish coach Lou Holtz got a little too enthusiastic during 







54-27­

pre-game warm­ups. A banged-up Key Stat nose was the result. 
The Irish didnot commit a turnover. They forced three. see page 4 
Irish R&R: Reaction and Recovery 



By TIM SHERMAN 
Sports Editor 
DUBLIN 

They camB to Ireland, saw the sights, met the people, took tours, and even experienced the night life of Dublin. Thp,y also won a football game. 
In what amounted to an extended soeial studies field trip more than any­thing else the 19th ranked Notre Dame Fighting Irish took care of business against Navy, winning the Smurfit Shamrock Classic at Croke Park in Dublin by a score of 54-27. 
"This was a great trip -I would defi­nitely do it again," Irish coach Lou Holtz said after the game. "I thought the game would be different (because of the envi­ronment) but it wasn't." 
But it was different that the last time the Irish played when the fell to Air Force 20-17 in overtime. 
Against the water-based service acade­my, Notre Dame brought the game to where they wanted it to be -the ground. 
The Irish racked up 303 yards on the ground on just 45 carries. That com­putes to an average of just under 7 yards per rush. Sophomore tailback Autry Denson led the way with 123 yards on 16 tries. 
"I thought we ran the ball very well today," Holtz said. "That was our plan. We didn't want to throw a lot (11 times). Our offensive line played well and our backs ran well." 
Denson, in particular, was outstanding. Touchdown runs came from 33 and 23 yards away. 
"I had a talk with Coach Holtz and he told me to take what they give me and 
see IRELAND I page 2 
• IRISH INSIGHT 

Smurfit gets the profit, Ireland gets the Irish 
DUBLIN 
I
t was not just any ordinary foot­ball Saturday for the Irish. Far from it. 
Of course the fact that the Notre Dame-Navy game 
.--------..., was 3000 miles away in Dublin, Ireland, made it unique. But it was more than mere distance that made this different. 
For starters, there really weren't Patti Carson many students at Managing Editor the game except those playing in it or for it, plus cheerleaders and managers which 
changed the atmosphere quite a bit. 
Without the students, that meant that all the fans were actually sitting down during most of the game. There were no overstuffed bleachers. Actually, there were plenty of seats. The stadium, which seats 70,000, was definitely not full. Other then the uncompleted seats at Notre Dame Stadium, it's quite odd to see empty seats at an Irish football game. 
And the field was further away from the stands than usual. The Gaelic football field is bigger than the American football field, so it was dif­ferent to sit a bit removed from the game. 
see INSIGHT/ page 3 


--~----­

page 2 The Observer· IRISH EXTRA 

Super sophs shine through for Notre Dame on both sides 
"It (only having to throw 11 times) was tremendous," Powlus said. "It's a credit to our lines." 
In particular, the debut of freshman Brad Williams at right guard was impressive 
When Powlus did throw, he had pro­tection and was efficient. A 41-yard strike to Malcolm Johnson on the last play of the third quarter got the game­breaking scoring drive started. Edwards ended the 5 play, 65 yard drive with a 1 yard plunge. 
But the Irish didn't start the game with such productivity. 
The stagnation of the offensive attack that started in the AF loss extended NO's first two possessions. 
But then the potentially outstanding yet inconsistent running game began to roll. 
The Irish started with great field posi­tion (Navy 43) and quickly marched down the field on the strength of big gainers from Edwards and Denson (13 and 14 respectively). In fact, it took just five plays to set up Edwards' five-yard TO. 
"Field position is very important in this game," Weatherbie said. "When you give Notre Dame the ball with a short field the percentages of the scor­ing going up." 
The percentage played true for NO's second TO, as Allan Rossum raced 40 yards on a punt return to give the Irish possession just 23 yards away. Pete Chryplewicz caught a five-yard pass for the score. 
It was a relief for the Irish to get up early and put to rest the distractions of the week. 
"I was afraid we did too much (in terms of tourist activities). but our senior leadership was great," said Holtz. "They (Captains Powlus, Edwards, and Cobbins) helped keep the team focused." 
Even though it was officially a Navy home game the Irish had the crowd the entire way. 
And it was only fitting for the Irish to have the Irish at their backs. They couldn't have picked a better place to get back on track. 
. Unebackers: A 


showed the other. 
The versatile rush linebacker dropped back in coverage early in the fourth quarter and found himself in the right place at the right time, intercepting a tipped Ben Fay pass. The athletic Minor even returned it 17 yards. 
"I look forward to playing against the option," Minor said. "We had a couple of weeks to prepare, and we had a great game plan." 

Monday, November 4, 1996 
Minor had so mueh fun that at one point during the contest, he was seen saluting a Middie after a stop. 
"I get so excited and do so many things out there," Minor explained. "I don't do anything intentional to make anybody look bad. I'm just happy after a play." 
His great play must not be intentional because he sure made Navy look bad Saturday. 

By TIM SHERMAN 
Spqrr> Fdjrpr 
DUBLIN 

Before he even came to Notre Dame, everybody knew Kory Minor was going to be a star. But no one really knew too much about his future elass­matn, Autry Denson. 
Thny do now. At least Navy coach Charlie Weatherbie and his Midshipmen do. They prob­ably even know too much. 
The sophomore tailback took · advantagn of Navy's strategy of stacking the line of scrimmage by breaking two big touchdown runs en route to a 123 yard performance (on just 16 car­ries). 
"Autry Denson played very well for us," said Irish coach Lou Holtz. "We had an awful lot of big runs." 
Denson's first touchdown came with just 14 seeonds remaining in the first half, as he bounced outside and broke free down the sideline. 
All game long, the Middies dared the Irish to throw, but 


Ireland 
continued from page 1 
get up field," Denson said. 
In a game with a handful of big plays, Denson had perhaps the biggest in the third quarter. 
Navy had trimmed a once 28-7 Irish lead to just 14 early in the third quarter. After forcing a Notre Dame punt, the Midshipmen appeared to have the momentum. But Bert Berry forced a fumble (Lyron Cobbins recovered) and on the next play, Denson broke outside right and zipped 23 yards into the end zone. 
"It was a 'iso weak' and Autry broke a tackle," Holtz explained. 'Their safeties were up at the line of scrimmage, so it was a Jot of one-on-ones. We needed to make some big plays and we did." 
The defense played just as large of a role in getting the Irish season back on track and pushing the record to 5-2. 
Denson's classmate Kory Minor had a eareer day, as he caused two turnovers and made 8 tackles, including two behind the line of scrimmage. 
"I think I had my best game so far," Minor said. "A lot of guys hate playing the option but I love it because it's my s.tyle.; I get to run from sideline to side­lme. 
After not forcing a turnover in six quarters against the option-oriented aeademy (4 vs. AF, 2 vs. Navy), the Irish defense finally got it going in the third quarter. 
On the first possession of the second half, Minor caused Middie quarterback Chris McCoy to fumble. 281-pound defensive tackle Hcnaldo Wynn scooped the ball up and raced 24 yards into the endzone to put the Irish ahead 28-7. "I was exhausted afterward," said Wynn. 
"That was a big play," said Navy coach Charlie Weatherbie. "You can't afford to give them what we did in terms of turnovers and big plays." 
But they did and the Irish capitalized .. 
The turnovers and the big plays allowed Ron Powlus to do what best helps the team, hand the ball off. Powlus threw just 11 (completed 6) and kept the offense in a rhythm. 
The Observer/Rob Finch Behind an efficient offensive line, sophomore tailback Autry Denson ran wild and will likely regain his starting job next week. 
when they expected the pass, Holtz hit them with the run. 
"I had a visit with Autry," Holtz said. "We had a good long talk. He responded well." 
After a sub-par performance against Air Force, Denson lost his starting job to Randy Kinder. 
Kinder saw the first action, but Denson got the call on Notre Dame's second series. 
"Coach just told me to take the ball and run hard," Denson related. "I really didn't think I would play as early as I did." 
But even though he briefly lost his starting job, Notre Dame's leading rusher never lost his confidence. 
"I know we usc every back," Denson said. "I was just the hot back." 
And Minor was the hot ball­hawk. 
"We have to force big plays," linebacker Kinnon Tatum said. "And that's what Kory did. It's always a lift to see that." 
In fact, both of the turnovers Minor forced resulted in Irish touchdowns. 
His first, a forced fumble at the 11:48 mark of the third quarter, led directly to a score, as defensive tackle Renaldo Wynn returned it for a touch­down. 
That play showed one side of Minor, the other turnover 
Running Backs: A 
Denson shined with two bursts and Edwards' knack £.or find.ing_th·e·.. ·.·.··e.. p··.d....zo.ne was as;•s:harp.. a..s
ever (3 TD's). When given the ch Robert 
Farmer continues to respond. · Wide Receivers: B+ Cikai Champion had the bi 
career on a 39 yard reverse. 
noteworthy play came on enabling the runs to go tile ut>:~••a..u.,~u 
The Irish seemed to fire out and g_etlovver than two weeks ago. Freshman Brad Williams stepped in for the inJured Mike Rosenthal and did a veryfine job in h1s first career start. 
. 
Defensiv~Line: i\ 
:~ ·:·=·~ : ,. :' .... ,. 
The triU!JlVirate of. ···. .. ~() wy
and MelVIn Dansby CQAlbmed to .·. 
tackles. Good penetratiOn all day 
return was comic relief. 
a hand in two turnovers. Berry and 
. The s_peed factor was apparent
the Middies blanketed from side-
Defensive Backs: C peke Coop~r·s solid overall play saved this unit 
fro · an entirely bad day. Corners Rossum, and 
· arly Covmgton, struggled. Opponents now 
o attack Covington. 
Special Teams: B ~.v~;:,uJu continues to star and is a threat to find 
with every touch. Negating penalties 
e return game. Coverage could be 
Coaching: A ftoltz and staff had the boY.s ready to play
through the distractions of the Emerald Isle ana the··. plan was flawless. Going for two when a..u.~'o.""' by 26 shows the lost killer mstinct may be 
. ...,.,.,..
overall: 3.55 had a good. time and they did their job 
the game. Good start for churning up 
for the balance of the season. 
~-------c-----­

Monday, November 4, 1996 The Observer • IRISH EXTRA page 3 

Irish learn from each other, memories abound 
Notre Dame players  "It was a lot of fun," said Kory Minor, defensive star of the game. "The peo­ a more general way. "It was a life-time experience,  
and football fans of  ple were excellent and we learned a lot."  Denson said. "If you would have told me two years ago that I'd be playing a  
Ireland come away  It was this learning aspect of the trip that seemed to be the most popular  game in Ireland, I would have thought you were crazy. But the trip was a lot  
with education and fun  topic after the win. "There is a time for everything," said  like life in that you learned to deal with the elements. You just take it as it  
By TIM SHERMAN Sports Editor  Irish head coach Lou Holtz. "Our play­ers missed three days of class, but they learned and experienced so much. It  comes." -For Marc Edwards, who scored twice, it was the atmosphere inside Croke  
DUBLIN There was no last-second game win­ning field goal from Jim Sanson. There was no devastating fumble in overtime from Ron Powlus. Quite possibly, aside from Henaldo Wynn's somewhat comi­cal fumble return, very little will actu­ally stand out from Notre Dame's 54-27 thumping of Navy in Dublin. But it may go down as the most mem­orable experience of the 1996 season. And it was an experience-Irish style.  was a very educational experience." "In fact, on the .airplane back, I have asked all the players to write a journal about the trip. I want them to keep it and think about it." There will likely be a few common themes in those journals, but each player is bound to take away different memories." "One thing in particular that I enjoyed was the old building struc­ture," Minor said. Classmate Autry Denson benefited in  Park that made an impact. "It was actually similar to a home game because the crowd was very enthusiastic," Edwards explained. "When we would be walking on the street (before the game),, the people would ask us to explain the game. They didn't know too much, so the crowd would cheer no matter what happened." Ron Powlus also enjoyed the unfamil­iarity with American football of the Irish people.  
"It was different being anonymous,"  
Powlus said.  "I like it for a change."  
But Powlus wasn't totally unknown,  
as there were legions of loyal Notre  
Dame fans who made the trans-Atlantic  
trek to see the once-in-a lifetime event.  
"It was great because it gave our fans  
an excuse to come to Ireland," Holtz  
said.  
It was  a true meeting of Irish and  
Irish-Americans.  
All throughout the stadium, the Irish were full of questions regarding the  The ObseiVer/Mike Ruma There was no mistaking the big event in Dublin this past weekend. All parties 
foreign game of American football.  The  involved greatly benefitted.  
Americans were happy to help.  
It also seemed the Irish learned a lit­ ed on the same side of the fields.  But  
tle bit on how to act like an American­ in the end, the little things did not  
they engaged in a full-scale "wave" at  make a difference.  
halftime, for nearly eight minutes.  "I thought the game would be differ­ 
"The environment was excellent,"  ent, but it wasn't," Holtz said.  
Holtz said.  "Everyone was very enthu­ But it was fun.  
siastic and the stadium was nice too."  "It was great for the fans and great  
The Obse!Ver/Mike Ruma Made for the Gaelic sports of football  for the players," Holtz summarized.  "I  
The Shamrock Classic not only afforded the t eam a great trip, it was an educational expe­and hurling, the actual field was very  love the Irish people."  
rience for all invloved like the cheerleaders a nd band. expansive, leaving much room for the  And they love the Irish of Notre  
sidelines.  Also, the teams were situat- Dame.  
• STATISTICALLY SPEAKING  Insight 
1  2  3  4  F  
Notre Dame (19)  7  14  14  19  54  continued from page 1  
Navy  0  7  14  6  27  
Another unique tidbit about this game is the fact  
Notre Dame (19)  Navy  that it was sponsored by Budweiser.  Therefore,  

beer was sold at the concession stands as fans

TEAM RECORD POINTS PREVIOUS 
First Downs 16 18 were allowed to drink in the stands, which isRushed-yards 45-303 55-184
1. Florida (59) 7-0 1667 1 
something never seen (legally, anyway) at thePassing yards 91 218 Notre Dame Stadium. 

2. Ohio St. (5) 8-0 1582 2 
Sacked-yards 1-11 1-3 
In addition to all this, the actual playing field 

Passes 6-11-0. 11-20-1
3. Florida St. (2) 7-0 1564 3 
looked a bit different. Instead of a "Shamrock Punts 5-41.4 6-38.8 
Classic" logo in the center of the field, there was a

4. Arizona St. (1') 9-0 1477 4 
Fumbles-lost 2-0 2-2 
large corporate logo of the Jefferson Smurfit 

5. Nebraska 7-1 1406 5 
Penalties-yards 4-34 6-45 
Group pic, a giant sponsor of this event. The only Time of Possession 25:45 34:15 
shamrocks that could be seen were on flags and

6. Tennessee 6-1 1344 6 
other paraphernalia sold by peddlers outside the 

7. Colorado 7-1 1218 7 
stadium. Considering the corporate commercial­
Individual Statistics 
ism, the "Papa Smurfit Classic" may have been
RUSHING

8. North Carolina 7-1 1204 8 
more appropriate.

Notre Dame-Denson 16-123, Farmer 4-74, Edwards 9-47, But there was one thing that remained the same
9. Michigan 7-1 1133 9 
Champion 1-39, Kinder 6-22, Spencer 3-8, Jackson 1-minus about this football Saturday. It was the Irish spir­
10. Alabama 7-1 1086 10 
2, Powlus 5-minus 8. 
it. 

Navy-Cannada 9-93, Nelson 13-59, Fay 9-19, Scott 2-16, Hoards of alumni and fans entered the stadium, 
11. LSU 7-1 902 12 
McGrew 7-11, Alota 1-5, Schemm 1-minus 3, McCoy 13­clad in gold and blue, wearing ND buttons, hats,
12. Brigham Young 9-1 858 13 
minus 16. 
and scarves, and many carried the flag of Ireland. 
PASSING 

The fans cheered continually. They hollered Notre Dame-Powlus 6-11-0-91. 
13. Kansas St. 8-1 813 14 
and clapped like mad when the leprechaun and

14. Penn St. 8-2 810 15 
cheerleaders came on the scene. That enthusi­Navy-Fay 7-13-1-163, McCoy 4-7-0-55. 

asm was also visible whenever they heard the band or saw the Irish guards dance the jig. And 

15. Virginia 6-2 684 16 
RECEIVING 

Notre Dame-Edwards 2-20, Chryplewicz 2-14, M Johnson 1­
16. Wyoming 9-0 646 17 
when they scored-well, that was madness too.
41 , Denson 1-16. 
(And the team scored a lot.)

17. Notre Dame 5-2 583 19 
Navy-Heaven 4-88, Schemm 4-81, Scott 2-32, Butts 1-17. 
The spirit was amazing. The fact that so many

18. Northwestern 7-2 518 11 
people-up to 10,000 from the U.S.-traveled to seeAttendance: 38,651 Ireland and to witness this match-up is impres­

19. Washington 6-2 439 21 
sive. And even 3000 miles away, the Notre Dame 

20. Southern Miss. 8-1 341 23 
Fighting Irish spirit was something to see. he
• SCORING SUMMARY 

21. Miami 6-2 336 22 
1st Quarter Notre Dame-Edwards 5 run (Sanson kick)
22. Auburn 6-2 298 24 2nd Quarter 
23. Iowa 6-2 269 25 
Notre Dame-Chryplewicz 5 pass from Powlus (Sanson kick) 
Navy-Nelson 6 run (Vanderhorst kick) Notre Dame-Denson 33 run (Sanson kick) 
24. Syracuse 5-2 233 
25. Virginia Tech 6-1 137 
3rd Quarter 

Notre Dame-Wynn 24 fumble return (Sanson kick) 
Navy-Nelson 1 run (Vanderhorst kick) Notre Dame-Denson 23 run (Sanson kick) 
Others receiving votes: East Carolina 86, 
Army 82, West Virginia 39, California 7, 
Navy-Schemm 55 pass from Fay (Vanderhorst kick)
Texas Tech 5, Air Force 2, Rice 2, Utah 2, 
4th Quarter

Clemson 1 , Colorado State 1 . 
Notre Dame-Edwards 1 run (kick failed) Notre Dame-Edwards 1 run (2 point conversion failed) 
The Obse!Ver/Mike Ruma 

Notre Dame-Spencer 2 run (Palumbo kick) Blantant corporate sponsorship was one difference Navy-Schemm 16 pass from Fay (2 point conversion failed) between a college game in America and abroad. 
The Observer/ 






The Observer • IRISH EXTRA Monday, November 4, 1996 
The Observer/Mike Ruma Irish quarterback Ron Powlus was quietly efficient. Though he completed just six passes (on just 11 attempts), the senior signal-caller was in full command of an Irish offense that racked up 54 points for the second time this season (Washington). 


The Observer/Mike Ruma Senior Marc Edwards leaps into the end zone for one of his three touchdowns. The full­back scored twice from one yard out and another score was five yards. 



Notre Dame 
54 


Navy 
27 
• GAMt NOTES 

Souvenir from Ireland for Holtz, waiting game halted, Williams wows in debut 
THE RED-NOSED COACH ENTER WILLIAMS 

Viewers of the game may have A giant question mark entering the noticed Lou Holtz's unsightly nose game was just who would replace the problem. The cause of the slight injured Mike Hosenthal at right guard. injury occured during warm-ups as Holtz turned to an unlikely answer -Holtz was attempting to demonstrate a freshman Brad Williams. blocking technique to an unidentified Williams, a converted defensive line­member of the second-team offensive man had impressed Holtz with his skill line. and, especially, his intensity. 
"I forgot my glasses were on and It carried over on Saturday. they came down and got my nose," "I just had a feeling about him," said Holtz. Holtz explained. "lie stepped in and 
"Coach ·likes to get inolved some­played very well." 

times," Kory Minor said. "I asked Ron Powlus, Mike Doughty All was not lost. and Rick Kacenski before the game "The young man blocked well after­and they said he knew what he was 
ward," Holtz chuckled. doing," Holtz said. "lie learned every­thing from 3:30 Tuesday until today." NO WAIT "I really like his intensity and it catches on." 
With the game being televised by CBS on tape delay, there was no need SRO = SEATS REMAIN OPEN for television time-outs that usually plague ND games. Organizers of the Smurlit Shamrock 
"It was nice because we could just Classic chose to give up a little bit of play football," Irish tight end Pete eharacter by forsaking better suited Chryplewicz said. "Sometimes, you Lansdowne Hoad Stadium for the larg­lose your rhythm during the TV time­er, yet more cavernous Croke Park to outs but we kept it today." host the game. 
Still, Notre Dame recognizes the The deeision turned out badly, as the important role television coverage additional seats proved supernuous, as plays in college football. It means dol­just 38, 651 people filled the stadium lars and it means an edge in recruit-that can house up to 70,000. ing. -But while there may have been 
"I'd rather be on TV and have the empty seats, the crowd did their job. time-outs than not be on TV." Holtz "They were great," said Marc admitted. Edwards. 
Movie Mo~day 
Monday, November 4, 1996 
• Now PLAYING 

'Gillian' is a Snoozer 

Courtesy of Columbia Pictures 

Esther tries to comfort Rachel about her father's inability to let go of his late wife in "To Gillian on Her 37th Birthday." 
By KYLA WEBER 
Accent Writer 
''To Gillian on her 37th Birthday" is the story of a devoted hus­band, David, (played by Peter Gallager) and his struggle to keep alive the memory and love of his deceased wife. He has 
conveniently hidden himself away on Nantucket Island and continues to 
go on as if his wife were still with him: In a flashback we learn that his 
wife Gillian died while climbing the mast of the family sailboat while
r 
they were on an outing. He is still unable to face the reality of losing 
her. and finds it difficult to cope with everyday life. Everything reminds him of Gillian. and his teenage daughter, Rachel (played by Claire Danes) begins to feel as though she has lost both of her parents. 
The tilm takes place over the weekend of the anniversary of both his wife's death and her birthday. His sister-in-law Ester and her husband Paul come for a weekend, bringing a recently divorced and former stu­dent of David' s to help him get over the loss of his wife. Over the course of the weekend Ester and Paul realize how serious David's situa­tion is when Hache! confronts him about his strange behavior. 
This is where Michelle Pfieffer comes in, playing the role of his dead wife, who comes to him every night on the beach in front of their home. Every time David is confronted or upset about anything-he retreats to the beach. He is seen running in the water, talking, and laughing with his wife, although no one else is able to see her. Of course, the others think this is unhealthy behaior. Ester and Paul are only concerned about the welfare of their niece, and want to help David move on or get custody of Hache!. David discovers that he must go on with his life, and struggles with how to keep his wife with him and at the same time start fresh. 
Also thrown into the picture over the weekend is a friend of Rachel's, Cindy, who does nothing but prance around in little clothing and offer sexual innuendoes now and then. But this bunch are all guests in the home over the weekend, all playing their roles in helping David discover how sick he is. All the while in a weak sub-plot, Ester and Paul nag back and forth, realizing that their marriage is less than perfect. Each of the six characters plays an intricate part in helping each other discov­er the importance of their lives all over again. 
One highlight of the !ilm was a moment that everyone can relate to. Hache! goes out on a first date. Of course, the date, bearing nose rings and bleached hair, is a nightmare for her father. And as Rachel makes a run for the door with him, her father stops them, and asks all the typi­cal "dad who has a daughter going out on a date" questions. This was a treasured part of the film, not only because we have all been there, but· 
bneause it was one of few laughs throughout movie. 
The film was based on a play written by Michael Brady, which was published in 1983. In 1984 Brady received the Oppenheimer Award for his play writing. Although the play may have been awarded, this film vnrsion falls short of any awards. It was slow going, and although it is a touching story at times, the characters are trying to get over the loss of a loved one, which is depressing for us all. 
If you foe! the need to take a snooze about part way through the film as I did, then you won't miss much. The nagging between Ester and Paul get to be too much to bear, and the annoyan<~e of the promiscuous Cindy got old. 
To hear that Michelle Pfieffer stars in this film is also rather mislead­ing, for her role is small and takes little talent. Clare Danes is an excep­tion though, because she does a great job portraying Rachel. She is the onn bit "of acting talent that carries any weight in this film, and her per­formance is profound. ller tears and heartache are very believable and I genuinely felt for her. But I am not sure that they had enough content to r<mlly make this movie move, and it seemed to drag endlessly through the middle. 
If you do catch a catnap during the film, be sure to wake up for the end, which is perhaps the most tender part of the movie and made it worth seeing. Overall, this rather "B" film was touching yet boring, and is definitely one to wait and rent; that way you can at least be comfort­able if you happen to doze. 
Kyla Weber is a junior social work major from Stevensville, Michigan. 
page 11 
Days Of Our Lives 

By JENIPER KOCH AND JULIE BARBOUR Aa:em Days ofOur Lives Correspondenrs 
Long time no see Days fans. O.K. so we never get to see you but after long awaited antic­ipation we are back. Lets jump right in and summarize the last three weeks of our favorite soap ... 
Peter got busted hard once again; but this time. his devious tactics won't help him get out of trouble. Well, unless you count his developing plan to kidnap Jen in order to convince her she still wants to be married to him. But Jen has filed for divorce and asked Jack to move out of the. house. f$he wants this time to herself to figure out where her incredibly bad judge of character came from ... hey, at least they were both good-looking! 
Well, there was one doctor's appointment and then there was another and another; and yes, now we have one more appointment for Kristen with one of Marlena's doctor friends. This time Marlena is Kristen's chauffeur and there is no way out for the conniving "mother­to-be." Unless, of course, Stefano happened to come through with a pregnant body double. Give John and Marlena two points because they've finally figured out that something is a lit­tle off with Kristen. They're so quick like that. 
Sami-the most despised girl in Salem -needs a serious reality check after hiring "Honest AI" and suing Carrie for alienation of affection. When Kate stepped in and bought off Sami's sleazy lawyer, Vivian hired a high-priced pro for her young protege. After being framed at the Green Mountain Lodge, Carrie spent time in jail and was served with a one hundred yard restraining order from SamL Sami's pissed off her entire family and even got the three-name treatment from Marlena in the courtroom ... Ouch that's gotta hurt! In order to prevent getting arrested again, Carrie has moved into Marlena's penthouse. For all you math majors out there, the. distance between Carrie's apartment and Austin's (where Sami is living) is less than one hundred yards. 
Bo still hasn't given up on the idea that Franco is the attacker/murderer but Hope has finally had enough and claims that if it doesn't stop the wedding is off. Yeah, we believed that for about as long as we believed Billie's claim of not loving Bo anymore. The video­tapes delivered by Shawn D. sent Billie down memory lane in tears and caused Bo's biggest headache with Hope so far. For the moment, everything is fine and Franco is supposedly on a plane to New York and Europe. But Franco isn't going anywhere, and as we predicted in our rrrst column, his plans will continue until the batteries in his cell phone die. He must be using Energizers because this story keeps going and going and going .... 
Troubles continue to brew with the Carver clan. Even though Lexy has proved that the jewels from Stefano are "clean," Celeste still insists they possess evil powers. For now the jewels worth hundreds of thousands of dollars are sitting in a safe deposit box with a miss­ing key, Jonah's insistence that Benjamin be in the newspaper contest has led to Wendy's unexplained fear. But it must have something to do with the masked man working for Stefano. 
And finally ... they never called and they never wrote but all of a sudden Salem is full of people we haven't seen in years. Not only did Lucas make a sudden reappearance, but · Mike Horton popped in out of nowhere to attend the wedding party for Bo and Hope. Also in line for this "be there or he square" party were two long~lost Horton women and Kim Brady. Kayla, however, sent her "heart-felt" regrets that she couldn't join .in the reunion. 
Jenifer and Julie tan be reached by e·mail at Jenifer.L.Koch.6@nd.edu or at barb2883@saintmarys. edu. 
General Hospital 

By GENEVIEVE MORRILL 
Accent General Hospital Correspondent 
Keeping you up to date on life in Port Charles: Nikolas begins his job, and Bobbie tells him she's glad he's there. Justus spills the beans about Luke's plan to a disbelieving Laura, Luke plants the drugs, then calls the cops with an anonymous tip. When the fuzz busts Nikolas, Bobbie says the pills are hers. Luke claims he's going to report the incident to the pollee; Laura informs him that if he does, she'll tell them the truth. She goes on to announce that she loves her Nikolas, and Luke just needs to deal; the latter responds by leaving. Laura tells Stefan she blames him for driving Luke around the bend. When: Nikolas yells at her in his uncle's defense, Stefan orders him to apolo~Pze and respect his mother. Family values, anyone ... ? . 
Bobbie tells her brother that he's throwing away his family. Luke retorts that she's changed sides. When he later tells Sonny and Mike that he left, they ply him with alcohol. 
. That's right, Luke -the booze is really gonna help solve your family problems! Nikolas wants to know why the Cassadines can't forgive and forget. Stefan refuses to end it until matters are put right. His definition of right is yet to be determined. Laura goes to see Nikolas; Stefan tells someone to move tonight, and as she is leaving, she's pulled off the docks. 
Mac is thinking about resigning; he enjoys PI work more. Katharine says she doesn't want to marry a bartending gumshoe, and Mac is so freaked out that he feels an urge to run to the kitchen for comfort food. Katharine dreams about marrying Mac while he looks for the remote. Can YOU figure out this couple's problem? 
Dara is ready to send Kevin back to the big house. since he's all better. If she only knew that he was faking his catatonia! She agrees to a plea bargain with community service and psychiatric care. After a jubilant group hug, Lucy rushes to tell her Doc the good news. 
Sonny goes to Mac for information. Mac puts an interesting deal on the table: Sonny comes clean about his "business," and he dishes. Jax tells Sonny to ask him face-to-face if he's interested. Mac says that Sonny will frnd out and Jax should head him off at the pass. The Aussie tries, but his parents show up. When Jax tells his father he's about to become an honest man, Dad orders him to zip his lip. 
.John Jax warns Sonny to butt out. Sonny refuses; he's Brenda's past. John threatens him. Wrong movel!l A man jumps Sonny as he walks along on the docks. It's like they tell us: walking alone at night is an invitation to a bad element. Sonny kicks his ass, with a little help from .Jason, who arrives in the nick of time. Three guesses as to who sent THIS goon... 
After a bout of passionate lovemaking, Jax has a dream about the wedding, where the bride leaves with Sonny. He wakes up screaming, but passes it off as jitters. After the in-bed aerobics they were doing this wee.k, I'm impressed he has the energy to dream. I want his vitamins ... can you imagine having that much energy during fmals week? 
Brenda brings Lila a picture of the baby, and Lila offers the mansion for the wedding. Brenda accepts and asks Emily to be a bridesmaid. She's baaaack! I guess his family knew enough to hide their young when Tracy was home. 
After a few more bouts of lovemaking, Jax takes his bride to New Orleans for a pre-hon­eymoon. They have their fortune told {beware the mysterious stranger who doesn't want you together), spend the night in a romantic hotel, and top it off with, you guessed it. anoth­er romp in the sack. Memorable quote: Jax telling Brenda he loves the way they fit together so perfectly in bed. Can we say one-track mind?! . 
As the Jaxes test the bedsprings. Sonny goes to Australia to get the scoop. He meets a man with a few missing fingers and an interesting tale. It leads him to the Phillipines and an opening door. The wedding is Tuesday. So after you go out and vote. come home for a wed­ding that should give Luke and Laura's a run for its money. All hell is about to break loose! 
-----~-­

page 12 The Observer • SPORTS Monday, November 4, 1996 
• NFL 

Bettis blasts old mates in rout Pack's receiver back­
By ALAN ROBINSON Brooks last season, insisted all yards right up the middle of the Associated Press Writer week this wasn't a personal Rams' surprised defense on 
ups picking up slack 

grudge match. But he certainly third-and-6 to push the lead to 
PITTSBURGH acted like it was. 21-3 halfway through the sec­By ARNIE STAPLETON third straight loss. A year ago, the St. Louis Bettis slammed the ball ond quarter. Associated Press Writer Mickens' first TD, a 1-yarder,Rams never got Jerome Bettis down, directed a touchdown As Brooks tried Phillips, then gave Green Bay a 14-10 half­going. dance toward the Rams' bench, Green, and, finally, Greg GHEEN BAY, Wis. time lead after Sanders had 
This time, they couldn't stop then flexed his muscles to the Robinson without mounting a Brett Favre didn't miss scampered 18 yards for him. fans to celebrate his 50-yard running game by an offense Antonio Freeman or Hobert Detroit's first touchdown. Bettis, shooting cross-field TD run that made it 14-0 with that starts five rookies, the Brooks on Sunday. Mickens also grabbed a 6­glares on every carry at the 3:51 left in the first quarter. He Steelers' defense responded by Without his two best re­yard TD pass in the third peri­coach who gave him away, had also repeatedly danced and teeing off repeatedly on Banks. ceivers, Favre still threw four od, which was quickly followed 
100 yards and two touchdowns strutted whenever he neared Banks, who threw for 327 touchdowns as the Green Bay by Beebe's 65-yard catch that by early in the second quarter the Hams' bench. yards last week in an overtime Packers beat the ailing Detroit made it 28-10. and the Pittsburgh Steelers Brooks, who had vowec;:l to his loss to Baltimore, finished 16-Lions 28-18 for their 12th Beebe beat cornerback Ryan
routed St. Louis 42-6 Sunday. players that Bettis would not of-35 for 184 yards and has straight victory at Lambeau McNeil in motion, cut back and 
Bettis, traded away on draft come back to embarrass them, been sacked 12 times in his last Field. caught Favre's pass at the 30 day at coach Rich Brooks' urg­tried every defensive gimmick two games. Favre, who had just one TD on the right sideline, then out­ing after the Rams drafted and offensive gamble without Isaac Bruce made seven pass in his last two games, raced McNeil and free safety
Nebraska's Lawrence Phillips, success in a failed effort to pre­catches for 108 yards, his completed 24 of 35 passes for Ryan Stewart with 1:08 left in outrushed Phillips 129-6 for his vent a blowout. fourth 100-yard game this sea­281 yards and just one inter­the third period. seventh 100-yard game in eight After Bettis ran for 39 of the son and the first against ception as the Packers (8-1) Beebe had put a scare into games. Bettis needs 4 7 yards Steelers' 69 yards on an open­Pittsburgh, but the Rams are won their fifth straight. the Packers when he took 
for his third 1 ,000-yard season ing drive finished off by his 3-only 3-10 when he has a 100-Don Beebe caught four pass­vicious hits on the Packers' first in four years. yard TD run, Brooks gambled yard game. es for 106 yards, including a two drives and spent plenty of 
Erric Pegram, Bettis' backup, by going for a first down on Tomczak was 6-of-7 for 60 65-yard touchdown that made time on the ground. added a 91-yard kickoff return fourth-and-6 from the Steelers' yards before being lifted for it 28-10 in the third period. Sanders ended the longesttouchdown -Pittsburgh's first 37. But Myron Bell dropped precautionary reasons. He Mickens, who hadn't played drought of his eight-year NFL in nearly seven years -and a Tony Banks for a 12-yard sack could have returned, but, with all season because of a severe career -six games without 17 -yard TD run. on a safety blitz -one of six a safe lead, the Steelers went ankle sprain, made two diving 100 yards rushing -against
Kordell Stewart revived his Pittsburgh sacks -and Bettis with Jim Miller (4-of-8, 40 grabs in the end zone -the the league's stingiest run "Slash" role with two TD runs scored on the next play. yards), who hadn't played since first TDs of his three-year defense, and he had 105 yards on quarterback draws. The Hams (2-7) had plenty of starting and losing the season career -and doubled his by halftime. Despite resting quarterback chances, but managed only two opener in Jacksonville. career total with seven catches Moore, the league's top re­Mike Tomczak with a mild con­Chip Lohmiller field goals The victory was Steelers' for 52 yards. ceiver, missed much of the sec­cussion over the final three despite advancing into Steelers' coach Bill Cowher's 50th in 73 Barry Sanders broke out of ond and third periods with a quarters, the Steelers won their territory on six of their first regular-season games. Only his six-week slump, rushing for shoulder injury after beingseventh in eight games and are seven possessions. seven NFL coaches reached 50 152 yards on 20 carriesk. But slammed by safety Eugene7-2 for the first time since St. Louis couldn't capitalize victories faster than Cowher. former Packers quarterback Robinson. 1979, the last time they won after Keith Lyle recovered Pittsburgh's last kickoff re­Don Majkowski, filling in for in­Sanders gained 71 yards on a 
the Super Bowl. Bettis' fumble at the Hams' 1, turn touchdown before Sunday jured Detroit starter Scott second quarter 68-yard drive. Bettis, a two-time 1,000-yard with Banks giving the ball right was Woodson's 84-yarder Mitchell, was just 15-of-32 for He was able to do that because rusher with St. Louis before back on a Rod Woodson inter­against San Diego on Nov. 19, 153 yards and a touchdown as of a false start that added five 
slipping to 647 yards under ception. Stewart then ran 7 1989. the Lions fell to 4-5 with their yards to Detroit's drive. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day"from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center.
Classifieds Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
VOLUNTEER GIRLS  ROOMMATE NEEDED, SUPER  FOR SALE 2 GA's ALL HOME  Need 5-6 USC tickets. Please help.  Spring Break Bahamas Party  
NOTICES  VOLLEYBALL COACH Starting immediately  RIVERFRONT HOME, $350 STU­DENT OR PROFESSIONAL; 683­ GAMES 235-3394  Call X4008. Ask for Cyrus.  Cruise! 6 Days $2791 Includes All Meals, Free Parties, Taxes! Great  
5th-6th grade/Our Lady of Hungary  3720 DAYS  ALUM NEEDS GA's  Desperate for Rutgers tixll  Beaches & Nightlife! Prices  
SPRING BREAK Travel Free  School, South Bend  for WASH, AF, PITI & RUTGERS  $$Will Pay$$  Increase Soon -Save $501 spring­ 
Organize a Small Group Earn $$$  Call Sue Mason 289-3272  7 MO. LEASE 1/97-7/97  618-274-2990  M-F 8am-6pm  Please call Amanda at  breaktravel.com 1-800-678-6386  
Cancun Jamaica Bahamas  (daY!ime), 234-3750 (evenings).  College Park Condo 2 bed, 2 full  (301 )314-8671  
Package includes 2 meals + 3hrs.  bath, wood floor, wash/dry, vaulted  N.D. Football tickets bought & sold.  or send email to  Cancun & Jamaica Spring Break  
all-u-can drink daily. Don Surf &  Need a ride to BC for big game.  ceil, porch, furniture avail.  219-232-2378 a.m.  adew@wam.umd.edu.  Specials! 7 Nights Air & Hotel From  
Sun (800)763-5606.  Will split driving/gas $$. Katie  BEAUTIFUL!  288-2726 p.m.  South Bend $419! Increase Soon ­ 
x1396  273-2580  NOTRE DAME GA'S WANTED  Save $501 Save $150 On Food,  
THAT PRETTY PLACE, Bed and  TIX for every home game.  ALL GAMES HOME  Drinks! 111% Lowest Price  
Breakfast Inn has space available  ATIN: Native Japanese speaker.  Four Bedroom Home  Call (301) 445-3955  AND AWAY  Guarantee! springbreaktravel.com  
for football wknds. 5 Rooms with  Tuitor needed. $6+hr.  Close to ND  232-0058  1-800-678-6386  
private baths, $70 · $90,  Call 243-9378 lv mssg.  Safe with use of all utilities and  24 HAS.  
Middlebury, 30 miles from campus.  kitchen privileges.  NEEDBCTIX!  BUY -SELL-TRADE  TIM CORBITI IS THE COOLEST,  
Toll Road, Exil11107.  HUGE NO FAN DESPERATE FOR  $275 per month  As many as possible  PART! EST GUY EVER TO LIVE IN  
1-800-41 8-9487  5 GAs FOR RUTGERS. CALL PAT  Call Paul @ 232-2794  CALL ANYTIME: 4-1382  TICKET-MART, INC.  LAFAYETIE  
(813)360-2243.  or (617) 828-1089  
Spring Break Bahamas Party  ROOMS IN PRIVATE HOME FOR  WANTED: NOTRE DAME GA'S  
Cruise! 6 Days $2791 Includes All  Hundereds of Students Are Earning  ND-SMC EVENTS.  ANY/ALL GAMES. PLEASE CALL  CLASS OF 1998  
Meals, Free Parties, Taxes! Great  Free Spring Break Trips & Money!  IDEAL FOR FOOTBALL WEEK­ FOR SALE: 2 RUTGERS GA'S  232-0061.  Miss your friends that are study­ 
Beaches & Nightlife! Prices  Sell 8 Trips & Go Freel Bahamas  ENDS.  CALL 634-2514  ing abroad? Send them a note in  
Increase Soon-Save $50! spring­ Cruise $279, Cancun & Jamaica  VERY CLOSE TO CAMPUS.  $$$$$$  the Class Council Care Packages.  
breaktravel.com 1-800-678-6386  $399, Panama City/Daytona $1191  243-0658.  !@#$%"&'())('&-''%$#@!  I NEED GA OR FACUL TV TIXS  Drop them off at the Class office  
www.springbreak1ravel.com  I NEED PITI TICKETS!!!  ALL HOME GAMES.  (213 LaFortune). Include name and  
Cancun & Jamaica Spring Break Specials! 7 Nights Air & Hotel From  1-800-678-6386  FOR SALE  Perferably Stud Tkt. Converted to GA...  272-6551  address on the envelope and we'll make sure they get there!  
South Bend $419! Prices Increase  YOUR LOVING CARE, 3 LOVING  CALL 4-4217 ...  n. d. tickets for sale  
Soon-Save $501 Save $150 on  KIDS, MY HOME,  COMPUTER, IBM PS/1, 486SX2  !@#$%"&'())('&"%$#@!  271 1635  
Food, Drinks! 111% Lowest Price  M,W AFTERNOONS, GOOD$.  50 MHZ, 8 MB RAM, 253 MB  Thank you Chris Nafziger for point­ 
Guarantee! springbreaktravel.com  277-9079  HARD DISK, 3.5" DISK DRIVE, 14"  Help!! I need Rutgers GAs!!  NEED BC & WASH TIX  ing that out. I never thought a  
1-800-678-6386  COLOR MONITOR, WINDOWS  Please call X3886.  312-951-5008  NAFZIGER would be such a repub­ 
Participants needed for studies in  FOR WORK GROUPS, PANASON­ lican, bull do defer.  
Spring Break Panama City!  memory, language, & perception.  IC KX-P 1124  ALUM NEEDS RUTGERS TIX  NEED 2 RUTGERS TIX  
Boardwalk Beach Resort! Best  call Dr. Radvansky at 631-64 73  24 PIN DOT MATRIX PRINTER.  CALL 773-525-3170 W/BO  Call Pal X3015  K. Lynch, It's Autumn Ill  
Hotel. Location, Price! 7 Nights  $500. 273-0959  If you were a  
$1291 Daytona-Best Location $1391  INTERESTED IN MAKING  NEED 3 RUTGERS GA's  Beer, Money, and Lavish Praise in  McDonald's Big Mac, I'd super size  
Cocoa Beach Hilton $1691 spring­ EXTRA MONEY?  Call Rob X3014  exchange for 3 lix to Rutgers. 508­ you-Love, Archie ... S.T.S.O.B  
breaklravel.com 1-800-678-6386  LARGE PHYSICAL THERAPY  COMPUTER, GATEWAY 486DX2  339-7497  
ILOST & FOUND I  PRACTICE LOOKING FOR PEO­PLE TO MAKE FOLLOW-UP PHONE CALLS TO SEE HOW  66MHZ, 16 MB RAM, 1.2 GB TOTAL HARD DRIVE CAPACITY, 3.5" DISK DRIVE, 5.25" DISK  Wanted: 2-3 G.A.s for N.D. vs. Pitt. Call X4684, no student tix please!  NEED 2 GAs for Rutgers Alyssa 271-9847  B. KLAUSNER, I'm a recruiter for the Army, so why don't you come over to my place and be all you can  
OUR PATIENTS ARE DOING. FIL­ DRIVE, 4X CD ROM DRIVE, 28.8  PLEASE­ be!IIILove, NORMA  
LOST: Green Eddie Bauer Jacket.  ING ALSO AVAILABLE. FLEXIBLE  MODEM, 15" COLOR MONITOR,  NEED 3 RUTGER'S GA'S. CALL  Need three tickets to Air Force, stu­ 
Size XL Tall. If found. please call  HAS. CALL GERARD/DOUG  FULL TOWER CASE, 2MB SVGA  SISTER NANCY MILLER  dents or GA's.  BAGLADY­ 
X2079. Thanks.  233-5754  CARD, WINDOWS 95. $1,000.  257-0996.  Call Liz at 423-11 80  Oiestra, the nemesis, finally is  
273-0959  done. Now you're due for some  
WANTED  Looking for a fun & experienced babysitter for a 3 & 2 year old.  89 JeepWrangler-2 sets tires &  NEEDED: 1 STUDENT TIX OR GA FOR PITI-CALL tlENIS AT 243­ Buy/sell NO Pill & Rutgers tickets­Check our price 6_74-7645.  sloppy fun! Beware ... a small pre­diction to make, ms AGAIN needs a  
Various hours. some afternoons.  doors,4"1ifl kit, hard & bikini tops.  9053  date for the wake!!  
Notre Dame students  Only those who love kids & are will­ 1OOK $5000/best -289-6849.  BC TIX WANTED  Love. Kamdogg, C.Walls and  
PART-TIME WORK $1 0.25/starting Flex1ble hours around classes. Scholarships/Internships available .. Eve. and wknd. hours available.  ing to play should call. $5/hr. Call 271-8643 & ask for Eve Petrucelli. FOR RENT  I TICKETS I NOTRE DAME GA'S WANTED  4 SALE: Two Pitt student or GA lixs. Call X2577 or X3950 I NEED AIR FORCE TIX: STU­DENT CONVERTED GA'S, STU­ alum seeks tix for BC game call Paul @ 634-3973 PERSONAL  Smokey -HOCKEY PLAYERS LOOK­Any off-campus person interested in playing off-campus  
Transportation necesary.  ~------------------~­ ALLGAMESHOME  DENT TIX, OR GA'S. CALL  lnterhall HOCKEY should call:  
For details call  282-2357  WALK TO CAMPUS  AND AWAY  MEGHAN @232-7839  FAX IT FASTIII  Chuck@ 243-9315 or  
2-3-4-5 BEDROOM HOMES  232-0058  Sending & Receiving  Kevin and Rix @ 273-5928  
NOW IS THE TIME TO CALL  232-2595  24 HAS.  Have 3 B.C. Tics  at  -HOCKEY PLAYERS LOOK­ 
LEISURE TOURS AND GET FREE  BUY -SELL -TRADE  Best offer?  THE COPY SHOP  
INFORMATION FOR SPRING  HOUSING AVAILABLE NOW &  Kristin -243-1321  LaFortune Student Center  With the glitter in your hair and  
8REAK PACKAGES TO SOUTH  FOR '97-98 SCHOOL YR.  TICKET-MART, INC.  Our Faxll (219) 631-FAX1  those moves, I believe you're ready  
PADRE. CANCUN, JAMAICA AND  2-10 STUDENTS. CLOSE TO  PARENTS HATE YOU?  FAX IT FAST!!!  for the big timet  
FLORIDA. REPS NEEDED .TRAV­ CAMPUS.  WANTED: NOTRE DAME GA'S  Sell me their Rutgers TIX  
EL FREE AND EARN COMMIS­ DOMUS PROPERTIES -KRAMER  ANY/ALL GAMES. PLEASE CALL  Make FAT cash  Adorable killen and/or cat. Free.  Douglas Hawk. He likes rolling in  
SIONS. 800-838-8203  674-2571.  232-0061.  Call Jerry at 4-1798  Call243-1382  hay.  

-----~---------~---­
---~-----~--­

Monday, November 4,1996 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 13 









CAST YOUR VOTE 
The Class of 1998 will be holding a MOCK election Tuesday to determine the outcome of the 1996 Presidential Election, if left up to the students of Notre Dame. Polling locations will be set up in both Dining Halls, as well as in the Huddle of LaFortune. Polls will be open during both lunch and dinner. Everyone is encouraged to vote (not just Juniors!). Election results will be posted at the Election Party in Huddle after 8pm and will be in Wednesday's Observer. 


ClASS DINNER THURSDAY! 
The Junior Class Council announced today that the Fall Junior Class ·Dinner will be held this Thursday, November 7, from 5 to 7pm in the .LaFortune Ballroom. Spagetti's will be catering the event which will cost $3 for Juniors and $8 for non-Juniors. 
The hottest new band, according to a recent survey of IRISH TIMES· readers, SKALCOHOLICS will be performing in the Ballroom-from 5 to 6pm for all the hungry Juniors in attendance. 

BC AT BW-3s 
Come watch the Notre Dame and Boston College Game at BW-3s with the rest of the Junior Class. Be on the look out for Class cups for sale for $2. There will be lots of FREE! Buffalo Wings and soda for Juniors to snack on while they watch the Irish beat BC. The game starts at 3:30pm, so get there early for a good seat! 
SERVICE STUFF 

ANNOUNCED 
DISMAS HOUSE Nov 6, Nov 9, & Dec 4 For More Information Call Thomas, x1881 
HOPE RESCUE MISSION Nov14,Nov18,Dec3 For More Information Call Kellie, x4021 
CLASS MASS Dec 3 • LaFortune Ballroom 

NIGHT ROCKne 
On Wednesday, November 13, the Class of 1998, along with the other classes will be having an "All-Class Basketball--
Night" at the Rockne Memorial, starting at 9pm and going 'till 11pm. Lots . of free Gatorade and fun · food will be available, along • with lots of give-aways. So, grab your friends and head to the "ROCKne" for a -­some basketball fun. 
NEXT ISSUE... 
Nov 24-DEGAS Trip To Chicago Class Mesh Shorts The Dogbook (Finally!) 
page 14 The Observer • SPORTS Monday, November 4, 1996 
• COLLEGE fOOTBALL 
Eagles suspected of gambling MSU post-season hopes 
Associated Press 
NEWTON, Mass. 
Defensive back Kiernan 

Speight, named in reports con­
cerning possible gambling by 
members of the Boston College 
football team, said Sunday 
night his name would be 
cleared. 
"Yeah, it hurts," Speight said 
about having his name men­
tioned in a Boston Globe article 
that detailed a heated 
confrontation between team 
captaills and four players, 
including Speight. 
"But right now I just want to get it resolved," he said. "I want them to get down to the bottom of it. I want my name cleared." 
The Globe said Speight, Jermaine Monk, Jamall Anderson and Brandon King had a confrontation with head coach Dan Henning and the team's four captains Saturday night before athletic director Chet Gladchuk announced the school would investigate gam­bling rumors linked to the foot­ball team. 
Although members of the team were ordered not to speak to the media, Speight spoke with reporters after a team meeting Sunday night. 
"I just want justice to be served, basically," Speight said. "I'm going to let the rest take eare of itself." 
When asked if there were any problems with the football team, Speight responded: ''I'm not going to have any comment about that. When it all shakes down Kiernan Speight will be innocent." 
Many other players walked past several reporters waiting outside Conte Forum after the team meeting. 
The university issued a state­ment Sunday night saying it was cooperating with the dis­trict attorney's office and also setting up an internal review committee, headed by Kevin P. Duffy, vice president for student affairs. The statement said the university also had notified the NCAA of its actions. 
"In response to continuing speculation about the status of certain athletes, it should be noted at this time that no ath­lete has been suspended from the football team for gam­bling," the statement said. "It is inappropriate to comment in any way about the status of the review at this time, since it still is in an early fact-finding stage." 

Middlesex County District Attorney Thomas Reilly issued a statement Sunday saying his office would not discuss the investigation. 
"If there is wrongdoing, it will be dealt with. We will not com­ment ·on rumors and specula­tion," Reilly's statement said. 
While Gladchuk, Rev. William Leahy, BC's new president, and officials from the district attor­ney's office met, rumors contin­ued to travel around campus. 
Near the school's student center, many students ex­pressed disbelief and concern. 
"I guess I've always thought of BC as a well-respected col­lege," said Justin Shaghalian, 18, a freshman. 
"I've never heard any prob­lems circulating around sports. You always hear about them happening at the bigger schools like Nebraska and Miami. They've had trouble, but you don't expect it at a smaller school like BC. 
"It kind of brings us down to a lower level and I think that's what people will think of us," Shaghalian continued. "I've heard some players might have bet on the team (BC) to lose." 
WHDH-TV in Boston reported Sunday night that "the school was looking into five players that gambled on games and may have bet on BC to lose." 
"I guess it will have an effect on the reputation of the school and the (football) program," said Mike Fois, 19, a sopho­more. "It was a total surprise to me." 
Boston College, which has 8,800 full-time undergraduate students and is located six miles from downtown Boston, was at the center of a point­shaving scandal during the 1978-79 basketball season. Three years later, former play­er Rick Kuhn was sentenced to 10 years in federal prison for involvement in fixing six games that season. 
"My concern is what it does to the school for the Notre Dame game next week. It's the biggest game for BC and the students," said one student, who asked not to be identified. 
crushed by Michigan 
By HARRY A TlGNS Associated Press Writer 
ANN ARBOR, Mich. 
Michigan State wanted to believe it was closing the gap on Michigan. The Spartans upset the Wolverines a year ago, and felt they could do it again. 
But upsets only happen when good teams make mistakes. Saturday, the Wolverines were almost perfect. It was the Spartans who made the mis­takes. Five turnovers cost them dearly as Michigan rolled to a 45-29 victory. 
It was a crushing defeat for the Spartans (5-4, 4-2 Big Ten) who felt they were still in the hunt for the Big Ten champi­onship and a decent bowl bid. 
"Michigan played more ag­gressive and took advantage of the situations," said Spartans quarterback Todd Schultz, who hit 24-of-45 passes for 260 yards and two touchdowns. "I threw four interceptions, and that was a dagger in the heart. 
That was pretty much it." 
Indeed. About all the Spartans have left to look for­ward to is hosting Indiana this week, then finishing up at Penn State on Nov. 23. Any kind of bowl bid for a team with four losses would appear iffy at best. 
"We've just got to hold our heads up, move on and look forward to Indiana," said Schultz, who had led the Spartans to three straight wins since returning from a knee injury. 
Michigan (7-1, 4-1) remained No. 9 in this week's AP poll with the win. The Wolverines, who travel to Purdue this week, also have Penn State and Ohio State to deal with in the closing weeks. 
"It was a typical Michigan­Michigan State game, and it was a great win for us," Michigan coach Lloyd Carr said. "Obviously, you have the rivalry and, of course, it still gives us an opportunity to win the Big Ten championship." 

P R I N C I P L E S of S 0 U N D RET I REM EN T I NV EST I N G 

EXERCISE REGULARLY AND YOU COULD LIVE LONGER. INVEST REGULARLY SO YOU CAN AFFORD TO. 
Americans are living longer than ever. So it's quite Il. possible you'll spend 20 or 30 years or more in retirement. Can you afford it? Unless you're indepen­dently wealthy, chances are you'll need more than your pension and Social Security to support the kind of lifestyleyou'll want. 
How can you help ensure that you'll be in good financial shape? Sign up for TIAA-CREF SRAs -tax­deferred annuities available only to people in education or research. 
SRAs are easy. No pain, no sweat. 
The best way to build strength -physical or fiscal -is to start at a level that's comfortable and add to your regimen as you go along. 
With TIAA-CREF SRAs, you conveniently contribute through your employer's payroll system. You 


Ensuring the future for those who shape it.sM 
can start with a modest amount and increase your contribution as your salary grows. 
The important thing is to start now. Delaying for even a year or two can have a big impact on the amount of income you'll have when you retire. 
TIAA-CREF: Your fiscal fitness program. 
TIAA-CREF is the nation's largest retirement system, managing over $150 billion in assets for more than 1.7 million people. We offer a wide range of SRA allocation choices, long-term investment expertise, and remarkably low expenses. 1 
Call I 800 842-2776 for an SRA Enrollment Kit or our interactive SRA Enrollment Software. Or visit us on the Internet at gopher://tiaa-cref.org, or http://www.tiaa-cref.org. 

I. S!andarrJ r3 P1111r'J !nJuranu &ling Jlnaly.tU, 1995; Lipper Analytical Services, Inc., L.ipptr-Dir«lorJ' AnolytU'ai/Jata, 1995 (Quarterly). 
For morr complete information, including charges and upense&, call I 800 842-2733, extension 5509, for a pro1pectua. Read the prospectus carefuJJy beforr you inveai or se"nd monry. TIAA-CREJ<"' Individual & lnstilutiorud Service.a, Inc., distribute& CREF certilicales, 
1196 

---~--~--­
Monday, November 4, 1996 The Observer • SPORTS 

Shoot-out 
continued from page 20 
down and die. They found their groove in the second peri­od and made a charge at the Wolverines. Working with a power play, sophomore defend­er Benoit Cotnoir rocketed a slap shot past Michigan goal­tender Marty Turco to cut Michigan's lead to 5-l. Following a 5-minute major penalty and game misconduct committed by Michigan's Harold Schock for hitting Dhadphale from behind, Notre Dame scored again when gutsy freshman winger Joe Dusbabek took a centering pass from Dhadphale and slid a shot behind Turco to trim the lead to 3 goals. Less than 6 minutes later, Dhadphale cashed in, slipping a shot past an unsus­pecting Turco to make the score 5-3. But the tide turned again, much to chagrin of the sell-out crowd of 2,667, when Michigan's Bill Muckalt beat Eisler through the five hole to give Michigan a 6-3 edge. 
For the final 40 minutes of the game, Notre Dame out­played Michigan, taking as many shots (25) and scoring two more goals than the Wolverines. "The last 40 min­utes were good," stated Poulin. We came out and played, espe­cially in the second period." 
"We know we were the better_ team the last two periods," added Dhadphale. 
On Saturday night, Notre Dame defeated Bowling Green in exciting fashion, scoring five times in the final period to fin­ish off a 7-5 win. 
The first period of this game bore an eerie resemblance to the Michigan game of the previ­ous night, with Bowling Green scoring three times in the first nine minutes of the game. Eisler had another tough night and was eventually pulled by Poulin in favor of sophomore goaltender Forrest Karr, who went on to stop 28 of 30 shots and record his first career win. "I feel great right now," said and elated Karr. "I always try to keep myself ready for the chance that I'll get the call." 
Irish senior center Tim Harberts scored late in the first period. The teams traded goals in the second period, and at the beginning of the third period the Irish trailed, 4-2. 
"You could feel it on the bench that we weren't going to lose the game," recalled Poulin. "This team just has a very spe­cial resiliency and consistently created chances out-there tonight." Junior forward Lyle 
Andrusiak, who recently was moved to center, converted such a chance at the 3:56 mark. "Since I've moved to cen­ter, I've been much more com­fortable," said Andrusiak. "I just try to keep my feet moving and driving to the net." With the momentum swinging towards the Irish, co-captains Steve Noble and Terry Lorenz followed Andrusiak, giving the Irish the lead with under nine minutes to play. The lead, however, was short-lived. Just two minutes later, Falcons freshman Adam Edinger scored a power-play goal that knotted the contest at 5. But Cotnoir's slapshot from the blueline proved to be the gamewinner, and Dhadphale added an empty-netter to ice the victory. 
"Overall, we are real en­couraged by our manner of winning," stated Poulin. "I was fully confident that we would come back and win. This type of result is satisfying for a young team that has just to remember to be patient. The key tonight was that we wor­ried more about ourselves than about the other team." 
Such a come-from-behind win demonstrates character, a quality that could carry this team far. Notre Dame (3-2-1, 2-2-1) currently stands in fourth place in the CCHA. 
CSC Open Discussion on Multiculturalism, Diversity and Notre Dame's National Position in preparation for Notre Dame's participation in a national collegiate teleconference on diversity on November 13. 
For further information Contact: CSC Director, Rodney Cohen at 1-5293 
AMONG THE WORST The following is a recent survey by the Princeton Review* of the "Best" and "Worst" campuses for Race Relation 
Institutions With The Worst Race Relation 
Institutions with the Best Race Relation 
I. Miami University

I. West Point 
2. Vanderbilt University 

2. Naval Academy 
3. Villanova University 

3. 
Copper Union 

4. 
N.C. School of the Arts 4. Hampden-Sydney College 

5. Washington and Lee


5. 
Eastman School of Music 

6. 
St. John's College (Md) 6. St. Lawrence University 

7. 
Bennington College 7. Cornell University 

8. 
Cal Tech 8.UCSB 

9. Emory University 


9. 
Boston Conservatory 


I0. University of Vermont

10. 
Harvey Mudd College 

11. 
Marlboro College 11. Duke University 

12. Syracuse l[niversity 


12. 
Julliard School 

13. 
S.F. Conservatory of Music 13. UniversitY of Notre Dame 

14. 
Baylor University IS. Whittier College 


14. 
Mount Holyoke College 


15. University of Richmond 

16. 
Simon's Rock College of Music 16. Fairfield University 

17. 
Berklee College of Music 17. Gettysburg College 

18. 
Bryn Mawr College 18. Providence College 

19. 
New College of University of South Florida 19. Boston College 

20. Northwestern University

20. 
Parson's School of Design 

• The Princeton Review is not affiliated with Princeton University Source: The Journal of Blacks in Higher Education, No. 13 
page 15 




Big East 
continued from page 20 
made seven saves in the contest to thwart the Irish comeback and hand Notre Dame its fourth loss in its last five contests of the season. 
For the Irish, solid perfor­mances were turned in by starters Chris Mathis, Tony Capasso, and Ryan Turner, who each recorded two shots in the game and substitute Ben Bocklage who led the team with three. 
•NBA 


Aging Bulls dominate in opening weekend 
ByRICKGANO 
Associated Press Writer 
CHICAGO 
They celebrated one more time their historic season of a year ago by slipping on rings and hoisting a banner. Now the Chicago Bulls will concentrate on staying on top in the NBA. 
Who can challenge them? 
"I can say four or five teams," Michael Jordan said mentioning the Lakers, Knicks, Magic, Rockets and SuperSonics. "But when we look in the mirror, I don't see why we should think anybody but us would win." 
On their opening weekend, the Bulls rallied to beat the Boston Celtics before routing the Philadelphia 76ers 115-86 to cap a Saturday night of cele­bration when they received their championship rings for last season. 
"We've got to be ready to 
Despite the late season skid, the Irish will probably be granted a home game in the first round of the Big East Championship Tournament for finishing with one of the top four regular season records in the conference. This bodes well considering that the team has compiled a 6-1-2 record at home this year. The game will played on Saturday and the opponent will be announced later this week. 
Notre Dame fmished the reg­ular season with an overall record of 10-6-2 and a confer­ence record of 6-3-2. 
play solid basketball starting 
this week. We've got four 
games in five nights, a couple 
on the road, a couple at home. 
It's not going to be easy," 
Jordan said. "We really can't 
take anything away from two 
games. The season's so long." 
This first full week gives the 
Bulls -the league's oldest 
team -the conditioning test 
they will often face. 
There are two back-to-backs with home games against Vancouver and Boston and _road games at Miami and Detroit, two other teams who 
will challenge team. 
"Everybody says we're old 
and senile, and that we're 
going to struggle as the season 
goes along," said Ron Harper, 
who surprised everyone by hit­
ting his first four 3-point 
attempts Saturday night. "But 
we've got a smart coach who 
knows how to give us the time 
off when we need it." 




Including Tickets to the Men's NO v. Villanova Basketball Game 
Reigister in Advance at RecSports or the LaFortune Gorch Game Room $6.00 Entry Fee -Deadline is November 4 Varsity Basketball Players are IneligibleMen's &Women's Divisions Space is limited Co-Sponsored by RecSports &Gorch Game Room Open to All Notre Dame Students 

u ent Tennis Clinic 
Tuesday, November 12 5:00PM-6:15PM Eck Tennis Pavilion 
Stroke Analysis & Playing Situations 
Presented By: Men's & Women's Varsity Tennis 
Free of Charge • No Advance Registration Necessary Open to All Notre Dame Students 
Z?_,_~~ 

___________________________ _j 
page 16 The Observer • SPORTS Monday, November 4, 1996 
• SAINT MARY'S SOCCER 


Belles end difficult season in impressive victories 
By ANGELA OLSEN 
Saint Mary's Sports Editor 

Going into their match on Thursday against Saint Francis Joliet the Saint Mary's soccer team felt like they had something to prove. With only two games remaining in their season, the Belles (6-12-1) looked to Thursday's game as a chance to not only improve their record but play some good soccer. 
The Belles went into the game with the right attitude and were able to domi­nate from the start and come away with a4-1win. 
With a hat trick from Junior Eileen Newell and a goal from freshman Katy Barger the Belles proved to be too much for Saint Francis to handle. "We played very well," said junior Keary Sullivan, "Our passing game is what dominated them." 
Playing in freezing weather and on a hard and choppy field, the Belles were challenged constantly to judge how the ball was going to bounce. 
Junior Newell had been playing all year at the stopper position but was moved to forward for Thursday's game. This opportunity payed off as Newell went on to score three goals in the game. A change was also made when goalie Jo Wagner was taken from the box and brought out late in the socond half to the forward position. "She really helped us out and gave relief to the players who needed it, " commented Sullivan. 
The cold and snowy playing conditions on Saturday also challenged the Belles but didn't stop them in route to thier 1-0 victory against Albion. "We were hyped because this was our last game," said Sullivan. 
Before the game started the Belles' head coach Bob Sharp and Assistant coach Josh Armstrong gave the Belles a big pep talk. 
The coaches really stressed to the Belles that whichever team had the greater will to win the game would be the one to come out on top. The Belles also found inpiration from Senior Shari Matelski who got the team pumped up in warmup and showed her enthusiasm troughout the entire game. 
Junior Eileen Newell proved to be comfortable once again in the forward position as she provided senior mid­fielder Jolie Pokorny with an opportuni­ty to score her last goal for Saint Mary's. Pokorny took the pass from Newell and drilled the ball into the upper edge of the goal and out of the reach of Albion's goalie. 
The A.lbion team continued to pres­sure the Belles' throughout the second half looking to tie up the score. With one minute left in the game, Albion took a shot at the Belles' goal in what ap­peared to be a sure fire score. However, with an amazing save Saint Mary's goalie Wagner was able to stop it. Wagner dove parallel to the ground and caught the ball before sailing in. "With Jo's save we knew the win was ours," said Sullivan. 
The Belles' saw their season come to an end on Saturday with a final (6-12-1) record. 

Seniors 
continued from page 20 

Jots of memories on this field." 
Yesterday's game was a sneak preview of this coming weekend's Big East tourney. The Irish will face the Villanova Wildcats on Saturday at Alumni Field. Other participants will 
include  Rutgers  and  
Connecticut.  
"We are going to go out  and  

play like always," said Daws. "We have to give it our best shot, and I think they could give us a run for our money." 
The team had a slow start, but quickly recovered to turn the game around. "We got caught in a defensive position with (Shannon) Boxx," said head coach Petrucelli. "Once we pushed her forward, the game opened up." 
Junior Kate Sobrero did not start on the back line for the Irish. Sobrero sustained a minor injury to her knee, so she sat out this game to heal before the Big East tournament. Freshman Jenny Heft got the knod, and that put Heft upfront and that moved VanLaecke to defense. 
The Irish came out strong ini­tially, but then dwindled for the majority of the first half. Daws, who was all alone in front of the goal, got a head on fresh­men Jen Grubb's direct kick. This goal looked to be the first of many, but after scoring three minutes into the game the Irsh were scoreless for another fif­teen minutes. 
The next offensive sequence also involved Daws' talents. Daws sent a long ball deep into the Wildcats' territory, and junior midfielder Holly Manthei chased it down. Manthei then fed it to streaking freshman for­ward Jenny Streiffer. Streiffer polished off the pass, and scored her eighteenth goal of the season. 
The Irish offense sustained one more drought, and then it rained goals. Overall, Manthei finished the day with six assists. Sophomore Monica Gerardo had two goals, and sophomore Shannon Boxx nailed a header in to score one for the Irish. Heft placed a shot into the net from atop the goal box, to add to the Irish's offensive effort. 
The team outshot the Wildcats, 28-7. Renola and freshman LaKeysia Beene had eight saves total. Beene allowed one shot to slip by in the second half, making the final score, 10-1. 
"It is good that we beat them," said Renola about how yesterday's game affects next week's game. "They thought that they could play with us and they did. We did not play like we would have liked to, but the score definitely sends a mes­sage." 
On Friday the team faced the Ohio State Buckeyes. The Buckeyes entered the contest with a record of 13-6-0. It was a physical game, but the Irish sustained the blows and won, 7-0. 
Once again, Daws led the team with two assists and two goals. Junior Holly Manthei uppered her career assists, as managed three and scored a single goal for the Irish. 
This Wednesday, there will be a pep rally to cheer on the women's soccer team as they embark on their quest to reclaim the national champi­onship. It will be at 7p.m. in the LaFortune Ballroom. 
The Irish will be in action again next Saturday against Villanova at 11 a.m. at Alumni Field, for the Big East tourna­ment. 
Have something to say? Use Observer classifieds 

TREK-CANNONDALE-ROLLERBLADE 






STOREWIDE SALE 
Mon-Fri 1 0:00 -7:00 Saturday 1 0:00 -5:00 

You vvould like to create-----­
Macintosh. More versatile than ever. 
We don't know what you're thinking. That's why we make Macintosh" computers so versatile. With word processing, to help you express yourself. With cutting-edge multimedia, to help you create. And easy Internet access, to help you explore. So how do you get started? Just visit your campus computer store tod~y and pick up a Mac~ 
Leave your mark. 
l 

©1996 Aj>j>le !.'omjnlie1: Inc. All riubls reserml. APJ!Ie. !be Ajljlle logo. ,1/11<' llllll.lillcilllosb rll'e re,~is/ered lmdeo/fii'RS of'Ajljl/t• l.illlljlllf£'1: Inc A/1.1/llcilllosb comfmll!l:l· are dt•siJ.:IIed /o hi! accessihle to iudiriduols 1fi/b disabili~J'. 71J learn more (I :s fUI~J'). ra/1800 (J{)().7H08 or 7'7'1' Hf)() ..55·06()1. 


Monday, November 4, 1996 The Observer • SPORTS page 17 
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~~--­
Slammers pluck Chickens, Weasels knot Angels 
By HEATHER CAMPBELL 
Sports Writer 
Siegfried 13, Lewis 8 
The Siegfried Slammers and Lewis Chickens played their last game of the rngular season in the late afternoon sunshine yesterday, and as both teams fought for the win, the Slammers left Lewis with more than a simple loss. This game would determine whether Lewis would make it into the playoffs for a chance to ultimately play in the Notre Dame stadium. The Chickens battled to win, but in the middle of the second half, Siegfried scored and the Chickens' hopes were dashed. 
Slammer Sarah Lett scored both of the touchdowns for Siegfried. but could not have done it without quarterback Jen Laurie's target passes and their offen­sive line. Laurie passed to Lett early in the game to make the first Siegfried score. Their second score did not occur until late in the game, after it was evi­dent that Siegfried either had to fight to win, or take a loss to Lewis. 
Lewis quarterback Liz Talarico passed to Chicken star Angie Auth early in the first half, and Auth ran over 35 yards to score a Chicken touchdown. Auth scored the two-point conversion as well, making the game score 8-7, with Lewis in the lead. Coach Brendan Hughes de­cided to use Auth's talents on both the offensive and defensive teams, and her 
constant speed and strength Knott's last game of the season, shined throughout the entire and their only hope was to game. Chicken player end their legacy as-a Meggan Hempelman said, women's dorm with a sin­"Angie has made awesome gle win for the season. plays on both offense and Unfortunately, playing defense." But her efforts against the Weasels is not were just not enough. the easiest way to win, and The quick Siegfried offense PW proved again how talent­had some trouble pushing ed they were. past the tough Lewis defense, but Weasel quarterback Liz McKillop 
the Slammers finally broke through and scored their final touchdown of the regular season to win the game. Late in the second half, Laurie handed the ball off to Lett who ran it to the endzone, slashing through Chicken girls along the way. After the game, Slammer Kathleen Ridenhour comments, "We made some good offensive plays and had to hold 
t 

Lewis off defensively. They're a tough team, but we played to good game." 
PW 15, Knott 0 
The Purple Weasels were already guaranteed a spot in the playoff circle, but last night's game was spirited for the sake of the Knott Angels. This was 
made several big passes to gain yardage. Later in the series, Jen Gingrass picked up the ball from McKillop and ran into the endzone to mark the first score of the evening. 
After Knott gained possession of the ball, quarterback Courtney Blake attempted several long passes to make the Angels; way up the field, but most were unsuccessful. The Weasels' intense defensive line kept Blake for running with the ball herself, and they eventually intercepted a pass to regain possession. When PW tried to run for another score, Angels defenders Jen Green and Katie Schriner would not let the Weasels get away with any easy yards as they continuously found the girl with the ball and ripped off her flag. 
When Connie Casson successfully lost her Angel defensive player in the Weasel endzone, McKillop passed to Ca~on to put six more points on the board. This second PW touchdown was followed by a hand-off to Alison Kriegel for the extra point, and the score screamed of purple victory: 15-0. PW earned a shining vic-· tory from fluid teamwork and amazing talent. As Weasel coach Matt Hynes said, there were "Good efforts on both sides of the ball. Both teams have good talent, and the key is just pulling it together for a win." 
Purple quarterback McKillop agreed. "The Weasels have consistently had the best team spirit in the league. We feel like this year we can go all the way." 
Notre Dam·e Night 
Mondays, 9 pm -Midnight 
$5 per person 
includes 3 games, shoes, $ a medium Coke 
You are invited to apre-election forum sponsored by Arts and Letters Core Course 
11William Julius Wilson's Sociology: T~e New Urban Poverty, Race, and ~le~toral Politics" 
Richard Lamanna Patrick Mason Martin Saiz 

r
Kathleen Weigert 


FLIP SIDE 
IS LOOKING FOR 

\ LEADERS! 
Come to an Informational Meeting...

GET MONEY FROM YOUR UNCLE INSTEAD. 
Your Uncle Sam. Every fees. They even pay a flat rate year Army ROTC awards for textbooks and supplies. scholarships to hundreds of You can also receive an allow-talented students. If you anceofupto$1500eachschool qualify, these merit-based t.EADERSHIP year the scholarship is in scholarships can help you ' effect. Find out today if paytuitionandeducational you qualify. 

ARMY ROTC 
THE SMARTEST COLLEGE COURSE YOU CAN TAKE 
For details, visit Pasquerilla Center or call 
631-6986 


page 18 The Observer • SPORTS Monday, November 4, 1996 
.. 
• v'tlllEVbALi 
Big East road wins steer Irish back to top form 
By JOE CAVATO 
Spurts Writer 
Every time the Notre Dame volleyball team has fallen into a rut, the Big East has provided the Irish a chance to get back on track. 
The same was true this past wnekend as coach Debbie Brown's squad picked up wins at Pittsburgh and Syracuse to put themselves in the driver's seat for their second straight Big East championship. 
On Saturday afternoon the Panthers were swept by the Irish, 15-9, 15-10, 15-8. In last year's campaign Pitt was the only Big East squad to take a game from NO, and they did so twice as the Irish needed four sets to overcome the Panthers. 
With junior hitter Angie Harris on the bench, sidelined by her season-long knee 
• SPORTS BRIEFS 
Drop-In Volleyball RecSports will be offering Drop-In Volleyball on Thurs., Nov. 7 and Tues., Nov. 12, Dec. 3, and Dec. 10, from 7­10 p.m. in the Joyce Center. No established teams or ad­vanced sign-ups necessary. For more information call 1­6100. Late Night Olympic Steering Committee -Anyone inter­ested in serving on the Late Night Olympic Steering Committee, please call Kara at 1-8237. Off-Campus A-team Basketball -If interested in ofl'-campus basketball contact injuries, senior Jen Briggs filled in nicely, racking• up 11 kills and a team best .320 hitting percentage. 
After having reconstructive knee surgery, Harris has missed five matches this season while playing in only 58 of 81 individual games. 
The entire team picked up the slack in the win over the Panthers as the Irish setters enjoyed one of the most bal­anced hitting attacks of the sea­son. 
Junior hitter Jaimie Lee picked up 12 kills while senior captain Jenny Birkner also con­tributed from the hitter slot with nine kills. 
The Irish middle blockers got into the fun as 6-4 freshman Mary Leffers and 6-5 senior Jennifer Rouse had nine and seven kills respectively. Junior Carey May totaled 43 assists 
JelT Milligan at 271-9433. Off-Campus Volleyball -. Anyone interested in playing off-campus interhall volleyball please call Greg at 273-9553. Basketball ticket sales will be extended until Monday on first come, first serve basis. They will also be sold at Moonlight Madness Saturday night. Ski Team -An important meeting will be held on Wednesday, Nov. 6 at 7:30 regarding the ski trip to Colorado. It will be in room 140 DeBartolo. If you have a copy of your insurance card and final payment on the trip, please bring them. Any ques­tions, call JP at 634-3414. 

MARK'fTING CLUB Meetings: There will be 
committee meetings Thursday, November 7 in. 
the lower lounge of COBA: 
7:00 -Speaker Series Committee 7:30-Resume Book Committee 
8:00 -Fundraiser Committee Questions, call 631-9330 
Asian Allure: Asian Allure is a cultural and fashion show presented by the Asian American Association Saturday, November 11 from 8pm-10pm in Washington Hall. Tickets are available at the LaFortune information desk for $3 or at the door for $4. 
Stop by our 2nd floor LaFortune office to see what the Club Council has to offer you and your organization! 
with no ballhandling errors while also adding six kills from the setter position. 
NO's blocking scheme held the hosts to just a .1 05 per­centage. The Irish also domi­nated things from the service line as they picked up eight aces with the nation's leading server, Harris, on the bench. Birkner and Briggs paced the way with three aces a piece. 
The triumph in Pennsylvania gave the Irish a one game lead in the race for the Big East con­ference championship as the Panthers were previously unde­feated. 
Notre Dame again reinforced that they are the beasts of the Big East as they pushed their record in the conference to a perfect 20-0 spanning this year and last with a win at Syracuse. 17 of those wins have been sweeps as the squad has only dropped five individual games in the Big East. 
Again Jamie Lee and super­sub Jen Briggs led the way to victory as NO triumphed 15-9, 15-10, 15-8 over the Orangemen. Lee scored 11 kills on .250 hitting while Briggs also had 11 on .308 hitting. Leffers continued her fine play with seven kills on .545 hitting as they outhit the hosts .315 to .111. 
The Irish offense seems to be finding its stride as Carey May continues to get back into play­ing form. 
May was out the first half of the season with a shoulder injury but since her return she has guided NO to three of its top-five hitting matches of the season; .355 against Providence, .330 against Boston College, and Sunday's match of . 315. 
On the weekend May record­ed 79 assists with only one ball­handling error which pushes her season stats to 361 assists and ten errors over nine match­es. 
The NO captain was unchar­acteristically inconsistent as she turned in a non-Birkner like performance. Against Pitt she had nine kills but also had 10 errors and against Syracuse she only managed five kills and four errors. 
However, she did extend her consecutive games played streak to 112 which stretches over 33 matches. Birkner has played in all 129 of Domer matches over her career while appearing in 435 of 452 indi­vidual games. 
Coach Brown and her crew will look to step closer to the Big East title this weekend when they host Rutgers and Seton Hall who are a combined 1-13 in Big East play. Sandwiched between the Big East matches, #21 George Mason will visit the Joyce Center on Saturday. 

Celebrate a friend's birthday with a special Observer ad. 
-jOIN THE CAMPUS BIBLE STUDY (CBS) 
Sponsored by  All students invited to attend  
The Office ofCampus Ministry  Inter-Faith Bible Study  
Every Tuesday  7:00p.m.  

Office of Campus Ministry Conference Room -Badin Hall 
One Hour Sessions Bring Your Own Bible 


Directed by: Rev. Al D'Alonzo, CSC 
For additional information call: 631-5955 631-5242 
Sessions now in progress 
You are most welcome! 

Tuesday, November 5 The Huddle 8:00p.m. 




FREE REFRESHMENTS!! 
Sponsored by: Senior, Junior, and Sophomore Classes and the Student Union Board 

Monday, November 4, 1996 The Observer • TODAY page 19 
CREAM 0' THE VALLEY ROAD  ED LEADER  
OH, 8ELIE:VE" TI4E'r' WOUI...D SHOW SOM£THING THAT DISGUSTING ON TV 1 ( •  AND  WHAT  PERVERTED ACTS E IN THE BACKGROWJD? C.AN YOU WATCH THIS •  IS  THIS,  A NV WAY~  

MIKE PETERS MOTHER GOOSE & GRIMM 
GRIMM, t>O trJOLJ ••• NOT UNTI1-W6 CAI\I 
THrNK t>OGS WILL STICK OUR HEAt>S OUT EVSR USe OF WINPOWS '95,
COMPUTERS? 

SCOTT ADAMS 
CREDI~IL[TY. 
IF 't'OU WANT 
ANOTHER HIT, IT'LL C05T YOU. 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 31 Of bees 58 Mailed 
32 French capital, 59 Leave out in song 60 Harbor 
1 Free-for-all 
6 Welshman or Scot 33 Man of 61 Ransom, the car 
10 Paint unskillfully 
tomorrow maker 14 Critical, as a 36 Daytime serial 
62 Part of V.F.W. shortage since 1956 63 Mountain , 15 Seaweed 39 One born in nymph 
product early August 16 Florence's river 40 Carved gem 17 Eastern ascetic 
DOWN
41 Speck 

20 Kennedy 42 Whalers and 1 Bryn-­matriarch 
such College21 Lover's sounds 43 Drinking spree 2 Canyon feature 22 Downy duck 44 "Scram!" 
3 "The Bridge of23 It's "big" in 
47 Remote San--Rey"
London 24 Venomous 48 Lumberjack 4 To be, in Picardy vipers 49 Employer 5Conger 25 Insincere 51 Money-losing &Church law sentimentality proposition 
7 Frozen waffle 
29 Cries one's eyes 55 Space-efficient brand 
out floor connector a Youngsters 9 Uno, due, -­
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 10 St.-(famous
Welsh cathedral) 11 Takefor-­12 Racer AI 30 Singer Guthrie 46 "--is a terrible 52 Grotto.-.!-::::.f=+~+~ 13 Family of Danish 32 Grand display thing to waste" 53 Out of port
physicists · 33 Slender nail 47 Achievements 54 Darn
18 Hot-weather 

YOUR HOROSCOPE JEANE DIXON 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY! IN THE work load looks heavy, get an early NEXT YEAR OF YOUR LIFE: start. Acllvlly centers around invest­The big payoff comes when you ments and real estate. Sign contracts play your cards right at work. only after you have read the fine Romance will have your heart rac­p1int. ing as the winter holidays approach. VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Tie up any loose ends related to a Travel, teaching and writing will previous relationship. Next spring is keep you on the go. Follow up on the ideal time to buy, rent or build a phone calls and messages. Contact­new residence. A marriage that ing someone on a hunch could help takes place in May of 1997 seems you hit pay dirt. made in heaven' Think about start­LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): More ing a mail order business or working attention and recognition come your from your home. Family and friends way. Be modest about your accom­will offer support. Postpone a vaca­plishments. Your intentions are ex­tion until next fall. cellent. Follow through on your 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON promises. THIS DAY: humorist Will Rogers, SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): actress Loretta Swit, golfer Kathy This is no time to be a shrinking Mcl\lullen. fashion designer Pauline violet. Tap your creative potential Trigere. by consulting experts or going back 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): to school. Moving to another citv Your energy is double what it was a could increase your income. · kw days ago. Dn not feel cruiltv SAGITTAR!L:S t:-.lov. 22-Dec. about furthe~ing your interests~ Oth· 21): Keep up a steady pace at work. ers are eager to please you. A slight­Your gift of gab is a tremendous ly playful manner will be an asset in asset in sale' or public relations. A romance. challenging love affair is a source of 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): inspiration. Someone may try to tum the tables CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. on you. Stay alert 1 You need to back 19): Higher-ups will grant favors up your good intentions with action. that sound reasonable. Make Others like your style but question requests behi·nd closed doors. your motives. Instead of questioning a loved one·s 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Pay seemingly erratic behavior, take a close attention to partnership mat­wait-and-see approach. ters. You must not let others push AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): you· into making hasty decisions. Others may not be able to meet vour Romance has its ups and downs. exacting standards. Perhaps you are You win when you yield to your too demanding. A tolerant. patient mate· s wishes. approach helps mend a rift between 
CA:\'CER (June 21-July 221: Let parent and child. others kno11· if you expect them to PISCES tFeb. 19-March 201: foil'"' iJhtructions to th~ letter. friends arc amaz~d a! 1·0ur abilitv to ThL': Clllllll Dll : ou fur ad' i\.·..::. BL· ~..·~,p~ during Jn ~·m.:r~~n,_·,·. Fdl:~._.t practi...:.d in bu:-tiu.::-.s: \\HJ will !..?.l!t p~t~t mistak~~ and conC~mrah: on th~ your 11 av. A dream ~ould prove future. Treating your subordinate' a> prophetic. e4uals will win their loyaltv. 
LEO (July 23-.-\ug. 221: If your 

Wanted: Reporters, photographers and editors. Join 
34 Fairy tale starter 

desserts 49 West Point in its. 56 Near the ground 35 River to the 
19 Outstanding, as 50 Agitate 57 Sigma's
North Sea a day 51 Capone feature predecessor 

The Observer
37 Linger23 Fine dinnerware 38 Coffee server 24 Quite impressed 

..
42 Race openers 

Answers to any three clues in this puzzle 43 Italian port on 
25 False god are available by touch-tone phone: 
1-=:'11-7-iE-IE-1~ 26 Church nook 
the Adriatic 1-900-420-5656 (75¢ per minute). 


staff.

--t--t--t--1~ 27 Yugoslav hero 44 Deep-voiced 
Annual subscriptions are available for the ""+~"'-+..:...j..:=-1 28 "So there!" singer best of Sunday crosswords from the last 45 Oust 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Do you have a disciplinary hearing with Residence Life? 
SttAdel'\t aovei"'I'\W\el'\t has tl"'ail'\ed al'\d expel"'iel'\ced staff membei"'S to assist ):O!A with ):OV\1"' heal"'il'\g with the Office of Residel'\ce Life. We al"'e hel"'e to help ):OtA befol"'e1 d~AI"'il'\g al'\d aftel"' ):OtAI"' disciplil'\al"'): p~"'oceedil'\gs. 
IF YOU NEED ASSISTANCE CALL631-4553 OR 631-7668 
jennifer Dovidio Ryan Mcinerney 

...
judicial Council Vice Presidentjudicial Council President 

• 

All information is strictly confidential 

•'-_.11 

Football 1996 
Irish celebrate 

Notre Dame 

54 true Irish Navy experience
27 






SPORTS 
page 20 
• HOCKEY 

UM's 1st period frenzy too much to overcome 
By CHARLEY GATES onslaught, scoring on a wrist Spons Writer shot just 79 seconds into the game. Less than four minutes The Michigan Wolverines later, Michigan's Mike Legg hockey team, fresh off a na­scored on a breakaway from tional championship and strong the blue, slipping a backhand favorites to repeat, used a shot behind a sprawling Eisler. monstrous first period to defeat The Wolverines scored three the Irish, 6-3. It was "the best more times in the period on first period for us ever," stated Eisler, who had just earned Michigan head coach Hed CCHA defensive player of the Berenson. "We did everything week honors. "There's no very well." The Wolverines explanation for it [the first peri­bombarded lri~h goaltender od]." said Irish sophomore Matt Eisler with 24 shots and winger Aniket Dhadphale. "We scored five tiines to lead 5-0 at gave them too much respect, the end of the first period. and we didn't give ourselves a 
The goals scored were not chance to win." soft -they were simply the "We stood and we watched," product of excellent teamwork, added Dave Poulin, head coach crisp passing, and good shoot­of the Irish squad. 

The Observer/Jed Donohue 

ing. Michigan defenseman But they weren't about to lie 
Freshn:tan defenseman Tyson Fraser is part of a talented young group of underclassmen contributing for the Bubba Berenzwieg began the lnsh th1s season. Fraser recorded an assist in Friday's loss to Michigan. 


see SHOOT-0UTI page 15 


By KATHLEEN LOPEZ Spons Writer 

On Sunday the women's soccer team gave a sneak preview of what is to come in their post season play. The top-ranked defending national champi­ons hosted the Villanova Wildcats. Despite the slow start by the Irish, they managed to defeat the Wildcats, 10-1. 
"On the board we dominated," said women's soccer head coach Chris Petrucelli. "Overall and on the field we 
TheObserver/MikeRuma 
Holly Manthei (right) led the offensive attack with 9 assists over the weekend. 
• MEN'S SOCCER 


Late-season losses present concern for Big East tourney 
By BRIAN REINTHALER  comeback. They created a great deal of  
Spons Writer  opportunities in the period by taking ad­ 
vantage of 14 Boston College fouls and  
Going in to their final contest of the  setting up six corner kick chances.  
season, the men's soccer team was try­ Their efforts yielded 10 second half  
ing to end a recent slump. After start­ shots.  
ing the year 9-2-2, the Irish had hit the  It was at this point in the game that  
skids, losing three of four, including  the Irish ran into a familiar obstacle: a  
their first home defeat of the season on  hot goalkeeper. The Eagles' Bauer  
Thursday evening.  
Notre Dame was forced to make their  
second trip to the East Coast in as many  
weeks to face conference rival Boston  
College. After dropping games at  
Rutgers and Villanova over the break,  
the Irish were looking to reverse a trend  
of Big East road losses. This pattern  
however, continued in strikingly similar  
fashion.  
The games last week were all hard­ 
fought, one-goal games. The Boston  
College game was no different. At the  
beginning of the match it appeared as  
though the Blue and Gold might be  
experiencing jet lag, as the Golden  
Eagles came out firing.  
Boston College outshot the Irish 6-2 in  
the ninety minutes of play, including a  
goal that afforded the Eagles an early 1­ 
0 lead.  
In the second half, the Domers found  
their legs and began an attempt at a  TheObserver/MikeRuma Forward Ben Bocklage led ND in shots  
see BIG EAST/ page 15  Friday, but none got past the BC goalie.  


.. 
• WOMEN's SOCCER 


Season sealed in style 
did not do that well. Villanova may have a little confidence for next week's games. The reason we did so well is becuase we played well around the goal." 
Yesterday was Senior Day for the women's soccer team, because it was the last regular season game for the team. This year's graduating class will depart as the winningest class ever, and they provided key contributions in the victory over 'Nova. 
Senior goalkeeper Jen Henola played one half for the team, and held Villanova scoreless. Two time All­American Cindy Daws put on an impressive performance as she chalked up three goals and two assists to her career points total. Amy VanLaecke, had a spectacular day of her own, starting on the back line, moving up front late in the second half. and scoring two goals. 
Senior Stacia Masters came off the bench to spark the attack. Masters had numerous scoring chances but several knicked the crossbar. She chalked up an assist. On the defensive end, senior Megan Middendorf came off the bench and supported the team on the defensive end . 
"It is sad to be leaving such a good team," said senior Stacia Masters. "It was a good experience, and there are 
see SENIORS I page 16 
{I 
at Boston College, 
aJ •Boston College football investigation 

$,PQillTS 
November 9, 3:30p.m. 
vs. Rutgers, 

~ November 8, 7 p.m. ~ see page 14Big East Tournament, 
~ w 
......
vs. Villanova,
ATA 
at Boston College, 

... 
\~ • Saint Mary's soccer season ends
November 9, 11 a.m . 
~

~.'­
November 8, 7 p.m. 
't-. 
see page 16
Big East Tournament

GLANCE 

;.~­
November 9 
~ 







