---------------------------------------~------~---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~------------. 

Friday, October 18, 1996 • Vol. XXX No. 40 THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
-~--"" 
Planes, trains, and automobiles 
When it comes to traveling to and from Notre Dame, there are many ways to go. 
By SASKIA SIDENFADEN 
News Writer 

hh .... holidays! You either love them or 
ou hate them. While the upcoming fall 
reak evokes images of rest, relaxation, and blissful hours devoid of routine and study, often the holiday season isn't as "stress-less" as we would like. Long-distance travel and transportation can prove to be some of col­lege's most annoying hassles. 
Luckily. most images of overflowing Greyhounds, endless ticket lines, lost baggage, Oaring tempers, and traffic accidents are con­fined to Notre Dame's football weekends and holidays. 
But for the transportation industry, these problems are a part of everyday life. 
Crowd control 
'Tomorrow, we've got extra buses out there to handle the crowds," said United Limo's operations manager Bud Ousenamer. Even with a maximum of just under 50 passengers per bus, Ousenamer finds that sometimes "we'll need two or three buses on one run." 
The first-come/first-serve policy at United Limo for football and vac·ation weekends may seem like a recipe for disaster -big crowds, long-lines and a general panic. But Ousenamer maintians the contrary; "We're pretty much prepared for everything. At the worst, students will have to wait an extra hour. but that is pretty rare." 
A majority of travelers are from out-of-town 
see TRAVEL I page 4 
L::ls=®edede=====·P~~&~........ E::···_jl
...~::=: 
Friday, October 18~_:::·_-_--_--'1 
3·7p.m. Football Weekend Social GatheringThe Morris Inn Patio 3:30·5 p.ni. Center lor the Homeless Alumni Tours (C.H.A.T)Meet at the Main Circle 4:30p.m. Marching Band Rehearsal Step off ~ Main Building 6:45p.m. Band Steps oH for Pep RallyBand Building 7:00p.m. PEP RALLY! JACC Arena. enter Gate 1 0 
m•••••• • 
l 
.____s=a.,...t~rdav. october 1'9 
8:30a.m. Marching Band Rehearsal Loftus Sports Center 9a.m.-12 p.m. The Alumni Hospitality Center welcomes all alumni and friends Joyce Center. North Dome 10-10:30 a.m. PomPon Squad (10:00) and Cheerleader (10:15) Performances Notre Dame Bookstore 10:40-11 a.m. PomPon Squad (10:40) and Cheerleader (10:50) Performances JACC North Dome 11:15-Air Force Cadets Drum and Bugle Corps 
11:30 a.m. Joyce Center. North Dome 
11:30-12 p.m. Glee Club· Notre Dame in Review 
Joyce Center. North Dome 12·12:45 p.m. Shenanigans Performance Joyce Center, North Dome 
12·12:45 p.m. Marching Band Concert Main Building (Step off at 12:55) 
1:10 p.m. Marchln!l Band Pre-game Show at the Stadium 
1:30 p.m. BEATAIR FORCE! NOTRE DAME STADIUM 
_____$Y!1.~@y..._Q~~iJ~J:..~.Q_________j 
8~0~1 :~~OO, M~~~ilica of the Sacred Heart 
Friday Feature 
T
axis line up at South Bend's Michiana Transportation Center (above) as drivers wave goodbye to students leaving early for fall break. Left, Barbara Poehlman, an eight-year Indiana Toll Road attendant, hands a student his ticket before he enters 1-80. According to Poehlman, students are prone to yelling, "Going home, going home!" as they depart for breaks. 

Stadium history has heavy price 

By LIZ FORAN Editor-in-Chief 
Want to own a piece of Notre Dame history? 
With the past year's ongoing recon­struction of Notre Dame Stadium, marketing ploys for the discarded materials are popping up almost as quickly as the new stadium did. 
But the. price of this memorabilia will hit you like a ton of bricks. 
In advertising brochures mailed to members of the Notre Dame family including alumni and parents of cur­rent students, the University is offer­ing decoratively mounted bricks from the "House that Rockne Built." For a small fee, that is. 
The bricks are being sold in con­junction with the University through Admiral Awards, Inc., an Indianapolis-based company who on a wooden base with a removableundertook a similar project when the dust cover for $125; "The Stadium,"
floor of Assembly Hall was replaced a few years ago. They are also cur­a whole brick placed on a wood 
plaque along with a picture of therently working on the sale of the stadium for $265; and "Hats Off," aastroturf at Texas Stadium, home of 
brick mounted on a solid walnut
the Dallas Cowboys. 
Among the prized pieces from frame along with a genuine usher's 
Notre Dame Stadium are "The see BRICKS I page 4 
This is the last issue of The Observer before fall break. The Observer will resume publishing on Tuesday, October 29. Have a great break! 
page 2 The Observer • INSIDE Friday, October 18, 1996 
• INSIDE COLUMN 
You in 
Twenty years? 
If you are reading this, you have probably 
finished midterms and have time to kill. You 
are either a very relieved student, {midterms 
went well) or a very panicked student {penny 
pitchers got to you last 
Tuesday?). Maybe you Kaiser Meany 
are a visiting alum. Saine Mary's 
Which is why this col­Accent Editor 
umn is about the best 
Notre Dame alum I 
know. 
Htfs my dad. You've all seen him on cam­
pus. lie is the one in those loud plaid pants 
and matching sweaters. Everything he 
wears is either blue, gold, or green. He's 
been known to wear one of those big "God 
Made the Irish #1" pins, and he doesn't wear 
it in support of our ranking for binge drink­
ing. Maybe you'll be inclined to picture him 
in his natural habitat...the Hammes 
Bookstore. 
His eyes glaze over when he enters the 
building. As an avid fan, he'd wait in line for 
hours just to get a look at the new Notre 
Dame golf balls .... However, the man is too 
smart for that. He'll get to South Bend on 
WedntJsday night, just to beat out the ama­
teurs. Then he has as much time as he 
wants to putz around the store, pushing all of 
those musical pins. What does he buy? 
What does he not buy? In my twenty years 
on this earth, I've never seen anyone get so 
excited about liquid soap before. 
However, he cannot spend his entire life in 
the bookstore. He has to embarrass me on 
campus as well. lie has been known to run 
around quads like a rabid dog, pointing out 
all of the dorms that he Jived in as an under­
grad. He loves watching the band. The 
amount of money he has spent to light can­
dles at the Grotto could end our country's 
deficit. 
I don't know how he got his 50 yardline 
tickets, but I have my suspicions that he 
donated a kidney to Father Hesburgh in the 
late seventies. He is armed with sun block, 
sunglasses, visor and icy beverage of choice. 
He's been to the bathroom. He's ready. At 
this point, we don't disturb him untii the end 
of the game. 
Dad tunes himself out for the three hours 
of playtime. He sits, listening to the game on 
his headphones. He also has binoculars to 
aid his vision, just in case his seats are not 
good enough. He also brings in a small 
portable television to catch the instant 
replays. He has the program to aid in his 
recall of the starter's biographies throughout 
the game. Finally, he has the VCR set at 
home to tape the game. He'll study this 
later, along with commentaries of the Lou 
Holtz Show. 
If I know people on the opposing team, and 
we're losing, he'll curse them out. Freshman 
year I dated somebody from Navy. In the 
first quarter, Navy was in the lead for about 
five minutes. Dad spent the rest of the game 
cursing out my boyfriend and asking my 
mom to remind him to "make us break up" if 
Notre Dame did not win. (Part of me wants 
to test his loyalties and get engaged to a guy 
from Ohio State ... but I'm not that cruel.) 
This is my dad. ND class of '67, Law 
School Class of '69. However, go easy on him 
if you see him. Never have I seen such a 
warm and caring man. He is an educated, 
honest (yes, honest!) lawyer, and a faithful 
and loving family man. I strive to show oth­
ers the tolerance, patience and love that he 
has shown me. And this Notre Dame thing? 
Well, maybe it's not genetically passed ... 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
•  TODAY'S STAFF  
News  Lab Tech  
Derek Betcher  Photo Joe Stark  
Seasn Smith  Production  
David F reddoso  Michelle Krupa  
Sports  Brad Prendergast  
Tim McConn  Tara Grieshop  
Joe Cavaw  Accent  
Viewpoint  Dan Cichalski  

• WORLD AT A GLANCE 

Hurricane Lili leaves 8 dead, closes in on Cuba 
ISLAMORADA, Fla. Thursday evening, Lili was centered 
Leaving eight people dead in its Hurricane Lili about 125 miles southwest of Havana wake across Central America, and 300 miles southwest of Miami. It Hurricane Lili closed in on Cuba was moving northeast at 12 mph. with 118 mph winds Thursday and Lili left thousands homeless and unloaded rain on already saturated stranded more as rain-gorged rivers South Florida. made bridges and roads impassable in 
News reports out of Cuba said Costa Rica, Honduras and Nicaragua. 28,000 residents had been evacuat­Costa Rican authorities said a child and ed from low-lying central and west­two adults were reported dead ern coastal areas and 100,000 stu­Wednesday, in addition to the five dents were sent home. Cuba also drownings reported Tuesday. said it was ready to evacuate Along the Florida Keys, a smattering of 86,000 people in the Havana area. businesses and homes had storm shutters 
Meteorologists met Thursday in place. In Key West, few tourists milled evening with President Fidel Castro about the shops. Ernest Hemingway's to discuss Lili's path toward home had closed to the public and board­Havana, the state news agency ed up windows with plywood. Prensa Latina said in a Havana dis­"I've put up some shutters on the patch monitored in Mexico City. house, but not the business," said Ed 
The hurricane was expected to Davidson, a dive shop operator in cross Cuba early Friday, squeeze Marathon, Fla. "In the Keys, in 'Manana through the Florida Straits separat­County,' we don't get too serious. When ing Cuba and Florida, and head for it starts to blow the foam off your beer, the Bahamas. Forecasters said then it's time to get serious." Florida will probably get no more In Mexico, the port on the island of than glancing blow. AP Cozumel was closed. 

Nixon told Kissinger about tapes 
COLLEGE PARK, Md. 
Richard Nixon revealed to Henry Kissinger, then his national security adviser, that their conversations were secretly recorded, apparently to keep him from taking credit for successes in foreign policy. This was in November 1972, when the secret White House taping system was supposedly known to only a handful of staffers. Nixon, 

who hated personal confrontation, instructed Chief of Staff H.R. Haldeman to tell Kissinger "you don't make the decisions, and when they are made, you waver the most." Haldeman's handwritten note, which recorded his instructions from the president, was part of 28,000 Nixon administration papers made public today by the National Archives here. Nixon's lawyers had opposed their release for years but chose not to fight when a review board decreed there were no grounds to sup­press them further. Haldeman mentioned the circum­stances in his diary, published posthumously in 1994. Kissinger was claiming he was responsible for the newly reestablished opening to China, Haldeman said. "I should let K know," Haldeman wrote on Nov: 19, 1972, using "K" for Kissinger and "P" for president, that "obviously EOB and office and Lincoln have all been recorded for protection so P has complete record." 
Deputy storms bank, kills woman 
HOUMA, La. 
A sheriffs deputy stormed into the bank where his estranged wife works, shot one woman to death and took an unknown number of people hostage Thursday, state police said. The identity of the dead woman was not immediately known. The gunman, Chad Louviere, a 24-year-old Terrebonne Parish sheriffs deputy, released one woman, a bank employee, in exchange for food, and let another hostage go after being given a radio, state Trooper Danny Franklin said. Franklin said Louviere's estranged wife was inside the bank when Louviere burst in around 11 a.m. The shooting occurred soon after­ward. 

Presidential debates set low ratings 
NEW YORK 
The second debate between President Clinton and Bob 
Dole drew lower ratings than any other presidential 
faceoff ever televised, according to Nielsen Media 
Research figures released Thursday. Wednesday night's 
debate captured a 26.1 rating on ABC, CBS, NBC and 
CNN. That means 25.3 million households were tuned in, 
Nielsen said. Since that translates into an estimated 
36.3 million viewers on the four networks, it may have been the least-watched presidential debate ever. Nielsen had no immediate measurements for other networks, like the Fox News Channel, MSNBC and PBS, which also showed the debate. All of the 16 other televised debates since the tradition began in 1960 drew higher ratings, according to Nielsen. In fact, all four debates between John Kennedy and Richard Nixon in 1960 were seen in more homes, even though it was an era with fewer tele­vision sets. The viewer reaction typifies this turned-off election season, which has seen television networks pulling back on coverage since the conventions. "It cer­tainly is in line with the trend we have seen this cam­paign season for the convention and the debates," said Sandy Genelius, a spokeswoman for CBS News. "It's not surprising." The high-water mark for presidential debates was the third Kennedy-Nixon debate, which drew a 61 rating. That means that 61 percent of the TV homes in the country were tuned into the debate. 
Man guilty of killing fetus in DWI 
CORPUS CHRISTI, Texas 
A jury on Thursday found a man guilty of manslaugh­ter in a drunken-driving accident that forced the prema­ture birth of a 7 1/2-month-old fetus that later died. Frank Flores Cuellar, 50, was charged with intoxication manslaughter in the death of Krystal Zuniga, who was born just hours after Cuellar allegedly collided with her mother's car on June 15. Jeannie Coronado delivered Krystal by emergency Caesarian, but the baby -weigh­ing just 4 pounds and having suffered extensive brain damage -died 44 hours later. Ms. Coronado clasped her hands together, smiled and nodded when the verdict was read. 
• SOUTH BEND WEATHER • NATIONAL WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forcast AccuWeathere forecast for daytime conditions and high tern ratures 
The AccuWeather® forecast for noon, Friday, Oct. 18. 
lines separate high temperature zones for the day. 
Friday 
~ 
''''' 

Sa turd 
~ 
,,,,, 

Sunday; 
~ 


-~3~~~~ 

Monday i\ ~' 44 


Tuesd~y .... i£!:1·J+61 
Jt-...,"--. ~"'' : ,.
t ..... • v -v .. 


COLD WARM STATIONARY 
0 1996 AccuWeather, Inc. 
Pmssure
38 H L 

HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY Pr CLOUDY CLOUDY 
Ethan Hayward Graphics 
_;····~

Brian Blank 
4,~,~9.~8 (f ~ u
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday 
Showers T-storms Rain Fluffiss Snow Ice Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy
c:xccpr during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All r('production riglns arc reserved. 
Via Associated Press GraphicsNst 
Atlanta  68  40  Dallas  75  43  Miami  84  76  
Baltimore  55  51  Denver  74  • 40  Meadville  62  54  
Baton Rouge74  44  Geneseo  59  34  New Orleans 70  50  
Boston  55  45  Los Angeles 72  62  Pittsburgh  46  38  
Chicago  56  32  Memphis  69  40  StLouis  69  44  

.-----------------...------------------------~-------­
Friday, October 18, 1996 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
David Hasselhoff, look out ... 
N 
otre Dame firefighters Frank Glon (in wetsuit) and Kenny Hintz (in div­ing gear) train as part of an NDFD drill for locating lost bathers. Their exercise, "Organization, training, search and recovery procedures for the underwater unit," took place in St. Joseph's Lake earlier this week. 


It isn't always clear which one of the big six firms is focused on your future. However... 

Student group calls for inclusion in ministry 
By LAURA PETELLE 
News Writer 

Notre Dame students who enrolled in Women in the Christian Tradition with Sister Regina Cole in the spring of 1992 took their dialogue about inclusive ministry outside the classroom. 
Their experiences in the course, which included talks with various members of the clergy and personal experiences in the Church, led the students to form a group called Student Advocates for Inclusive Ministry (SAIM). 
"Our purpose is to raise awareness of, stimulate dialogue about, and develop strategies toward the inclusiveness of min­istry at all levels of the Catholic Church to all those called by the Spirit, including women and married persons. In order to achieve these goals we will initi­ate discussion with bishops, Church leaders, and other Christians, invite speakers, and foster networking among other university and college students," SAIM's mission statement reads. 
SAIM Vice President Kathy Motyka stressed that the group is primarily interested in open dialogue. "We're not trying to change the world, we're just try­ing to get people to take a look," Motyka said. 
"It's about dialogue, it's about questioning, it's about talking, it's about sharing our ideas and our experiences in the Church," treasurer Michelle Venci said. 
To encourage these discus­sions, SAIM has sponsored a variety of activities including retreats, guest speakers, the dis­tribution of pamphlets, spon­sored speak-outs, and panel dis­cussions. This year SAIM plans to distribute a brochure on inclusive language, sponsor a speak-otTt, and speak at Freshman Retreats. 
The underlying idea behind inclusive misinistry is that "Jesus called everyone," accord­ing to Motyka. 
"In God's eyes there is no male or female -it's children of God," Venci said. 
President Leah Thomas, reit­erating the group's feelings, said she cares about the Church and emphasized that she is not look­ing to undermine it. However, she is concerned with the alien­ation that she believes is experi­enced by those excluded from ministries to which they feel called. 
Motyka and Thomas agree that it is important to have all points of view represented when the Church deliberates policies, and that leaving out women who con­stitute 50 percent of the popula­tion is not fair representation. 
SAIM supports the ordination of women and of married indi­viduals. "The apostles were married," Thomas recalled. "And Jesus included women in his inner circle." 
Thomas and Venci both expressed concern for those individuals who feel "called" and cannot fulfill that calling because of their gender. Sister Kathleen Beatty, SSJ, Lyons Hall Rector and an advisor of the group, agreed saying that she has met women who have felt a call to full ministry and found tremendous frustration in their inability to follow that call. 
Thomas is also concerned about preconceptions people have about SAIM and the issues with which SAIM concerns itself. 
"People feel we're radical, but we're not-we're promoting dialogue," she said. 
SAIM meets on Wednesdays in the Cavanaugh Hall basement at 
8:30 p.m. New members are always welcome. Interested stu­dents may call Thomas or Motyka. 


Remember to 





share the warmth 
in the true 

Notre Dame spirit. 
Contact the Hammes Bookstore or the Center for Social Concerns for details. 
PROJECT WARMTH 
-~-----------~ ---­
page 4 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS Friday, October 18, 1996 
"We have two long-term lots street pattern of the west coast And most of us are all too and one short-term, and they or the congested cities of the familiar with the problem of
Travel Bricks 
were both full up." east, are unused to the flat, lost or rerouted baggage. Many 
continued from page 1 
and they come here for the Notre Dame football games, said Berry. "There are many disgruntled alumni .who just missed the tail-end of their party and use our bus service as a means of transportation to the Notre Dame campus." 
Inevitably, that inexplicable and unavoidable influx of stu­dents comes. "This past sum­mer the bus service wasn't as coordinated," Berry admitted, "and there was a group of 45 to 60 students going home who all showed up at the same time." 
"I remember one group had to wait in the station for 15 to 16 hours," he added, "Fortunately, they all stayed pretty much under control," he laughed. 
Since last year, Greyhound has rethought its bussing arrangements. "Now, I have X amount of seats open for walk­ons," said Berry. "And despite a foul-up in Cleveland earlier this year, we k;'_low when to add more buses. 
Avis Car Hentals also accepts crowds during the height of the season. "It's a point blank fact," said customer relations manag­er Scott Diedrich, "When there's Notre Dame stuff going on ears sell out. You can't get any reservations even weeks in advance, and as far as we're concerned, everything is booked." 
Cashier Freda Longe of Hepublic Parking at Michiana Hegional Transportation Center agreed, "We have a constant everyday crowd now; every season we get more people than the year before." 
"Yesterday, for instance, we had 1008 cars," said Longe. 
With tempers flaring ... 
Despite plans for control and efficient management, most employees will run into the occa­sional unmanageable client. Students have doubtless experi­enced the friction between peo­ple in close quarters. 
"People come off the air­planes, tired and in a hurry, and they get irritable and take it out on us cashiers," said Longe. Apparently, the problem lies, not as much with students than with their parents. 
"Parents coming in get mad because they're tired or they've been bumped around all day," said Diedrich, "and we're the ones that get yelled at the most." 
Longe added that obscenities know no bound. "I've been yelled at, cursed out, screamed at, flipped off, and called every kind of name imaginable." 
"I've been called racial names, and my temper has gone up, but I can't show that because I'm the one behind the desk," Diedrich added. "Travel seems to have created new behavioral attitudes. I can't explain it." 
Quiet resignation and tolera­tion are the key to survival in this industry. Still, employees in the transportation business have much to say on how trav­elers, like ourselves, can make traveling less ... painful. 
"Hey, we're just a typical cus­tomer-related industry," said Diedrich. 


Not a bowl of peaches 
Unfortunately, flaring tem­pers aren't the only speed bumps to the smooth road of travel. Visitors to South Bend, accustomed to the grid-lock sprawling expanse of northern Indiana. Navigating South Bend "is not a bowl of peaches," said Dean Kesler, president of the Dean's Towing & Service Center, the county's main tow­ing service. 
Accidents are common, not just among visitors, but among the locals too, said Kesler. He admitted, though, that visitors do have the obvious added dis­advantage of unfamiliarity with local traffic patterns. During the holiday season and home football games this problem is enhanced by the unpredictable winter weather. 
"There are lots of people using the highways who just aren't used to winter road con­ditions," said Kesler. "When there is freezing rain, snow, sleet, and hail, it seems they have to learn how to drive all over again." And that is not the only difficulty. "Accidents with deer are also common when the farmers start harvesting," added Kesler. 
On another note, DUI viola­tions "increase during the holi­day season," Kesler added. An increase in DUI impounds proves that tail-gating and joy­riding during football weekends can be a deadly combination. According to Kesler, "During the week there will be just a trickle and then on the week­ends there will be two or three accidents in a row, and then they just start coming like bananas." 
Of course, there are always some of the more benign prob­lems of lost baggage and delayed flights. "Once in a while we'll run into a situation where airlines will overbook or there is bad weather," said Ousnamer. 
airports are very inefficient in the department of customs, Ousnamer said. It is not uncom­mon that some travelers should be seen shuffling from carousel to carousel, only to discover that their luggage has been sent to Istanbul instead of Michiana. 
Yet, as customer-related industries go, the business of travel and transportation in South Bend has achieved new heights of business and cus­tomer management. 

Business management 
"I was a student myself, and I know the typical student bud­get," said Berry. "Several stu­dents came in the other day who thought that our ticket prices were too high." 
In response to this and other pleas, Greyhound is targeting student travelers by incorporat­ing additional student discounts like Student Advantage and Saint Mary's Price is Hight dis­count. Local and inter-state transportation companies are marketing travel discounts aimed at students traveling on meager budgets. 
According to Ousnamer, United Limo is combating the problem of missing baggage with a "Baggage Buddy" pro­gram. "Essentially, you are always responsible for your own luggage, but we just show you where to store it and how to retrieve it later," said Ousnamer. 

Does all this add up to elevat­ed prices? In most cases, no. Transportation in and around South Bend during football weekends and the holiday sea­son has evolved and stream­lined to a level of unforseen efficiency and thrift. 
continued from page 1 
cap (worn for years by Notre Dame ushers) for $750. 
Other articles include "Irish Nuggets," 40 pounds of brick chips which can be used for landscaping, complete with a football shaped sign to desig­nate their origin, for $90; and a section of a stadium seat mounted on a walnut frame, along with a brick, for $500. 
Part of the reason for such steep prices are the solid wood bases and frames that aceom­pany many of the articles., according to Tim McCarthy, president of Admiral Awards, Inc. The articles are also limit­ed editions, which adds to the price. or course, the most limit­ed articles have the highest prices. 
All of the articles seem to be selling very well, he added, especially "The Champion" and the "First Down," a Lucite paperweight surrounding a brick chip. The two are among the least expensive articles. 
In addition to the ongoing sale of stadium brick merchan­dise, the University is cooperat­ing with Admiral Awards and Christie's East, an auctioneer from New York, to stage an auction of other paraphernalia and discarded materials from the stadium at the end of November. 
Articles such as the old press box elevator, fold-out stadium chairs, concourse lights, goal posts and even the sod from the end zones will be sold.•to the highest bidder at the Nov. 25 auction at South Bend'.s Century Center. The registra­tion fee is $35. 
,,, 






Congratulations to 
Professor Catherine LaCugna 

The 1996 Sheedy Award Winner 

Sheedy Award Presentation CCE Auditorium 3:30pm Friday, October 18, 1996 

All are invited to attend. 
~------------------------------------------------------------~-------------------~----~------~ 

Friday, October 18, 1996 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS 
St. Ed's senior set for Jeopardy! 
35 out of 50 questions. Of the 80 Jeopardy! hopefuls who took that test, only Torma and seven others qualified. They were placed on file to be called for future tapings. 
Two working days after his screening, Torma received the call from Los Angeles. 
''I was amazed that it came so soon. Actually, I'm surprised the call came at all," he said. 
Torma's roommate, junior Chris Strother, sees Torma as the ideal Jeopardy! contes­tant. "He knows every single useless fact you'd ever want to know," Strother said. "He ruins Trivial Pursuit games. He got all but one pie slice in a single turn." 
Torma cited the fact that he began reading the encyclopedia when he was four years old. "I liked the pictures-especially the maps," Torma said, "I've always had a thirst for useless knowledge." 
After a slight pause, he added, "Well, I don't consider it useless." 
"Mark's one of those people who knows just about everything. You can ask him the weirdest things, and I guarantee you he'd know," said sophomore Lis Sonneveld. 
Torma stresses that, at this point, he's not "studying" for the show. 
"I don't think you can really prepare for this kind of thing," he said. "But I'm work­ing on my speed, and keeping my mind work­ing." However, since he found out about his Jeopardy! appearance, he said he's been approached on the quads with random trivia questions. "Actually, I appreciate times when I don't know the answer, since it helps me learn," he said. 
Prognosticating on the show's outcome, Torma thinks he has a decent chance. "Hell yeah. He'll win five straight," quipped Strother. The show's taping will take place from Oct. 23 to 24. 
While the air date for the show has not yet been released, Torma expects it to hit the national airwaves before the end of the semester. Jeopardy!, known as the number one quiz show in America, has captured the number one quiz show slot in the Nielsen rat­ings for 560 weeks straight and still counting. It airs at 2:30 p.m. in South Bend WBND, channel 58, the local ABC affiliate. 
By MAUREEN HURLEY Associate News Editor 

As midterms draw to a close, most students leave the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's cam­puses with anything but acade­mics on their minds. 
But not Mark Torma. 

Torma, who's known by his friends as a person who will pull random trivia from thin air, will be answering trivia questions in the form of a ques­tion. The senior anthropology major joins the elite stratum of 440 people who will appear on the game show Jeopardy! this year. 
Torma applied for the show via the Internet earlier this semester, and from that appli­cation, he was randomly select­ed to be tested for the show in Chicago at the end of September. Auditioners there completed a fast-paced, 50­question written test. To then qualify for the show, partici­pants had to correctly answer 
Collier re-examines work force's role in politics 
By DEREK BETCHER Assisrant News Editor 
The working class's role in establishing democracy needs to be reconsidered, according to Ruth Berins Collier. In her seminar dealing with the fundamental political-social question of who institutes a democra­tic government, Collier concluded that the opposing roles of labor forces and elite groups have been varyingly overemphasized and neglected. 
"It's no surprise that democratization is a complex process. I'm trying to suggest the limitations and insights of the different analytical processes," she offered. 
The first distinction between these processes that Collier made was between "first wave" and "third wave" democratization. Late 19th century and early 20th century democratization, such as occured in Italy and Belgium, fit into the first wave category. More recent transitions to democracy, like Brazil's in 1985, are given the label of "third wave." Collier noted that the breadth and specific era of history considered will affect any generalizations that can be made on the democratization process. 
For the older first wave cases, Collier concluded that labor's role in bringing democracy had been overstressed. The only time proletariat had played a role, they had done so from entranched positions in the outgoing governments and not from the grass roots. 
In more recent cases, such as Spain in 1977 and Chile in 1990, the labor force has been found to play a larger role than has been previously acknowl­edged, according to Collier. In some cases, the work force has explicitly triggered the transition, while in others it has only helped it along. Collier posited that in either of such cases, it is fair to generalize that labor's role in contemporary democratization has been significant. 


u.s. 31/33 North at Darden One mile north of campus 
Monday through Saturday 9:00 to 9:00 Sunday 12:00 to 5:00 
Rediscover North Village Mall For ''One Stop Shopping" 

Co66futorre~ 
.~ 
:J{orist
JIWJLIII 
& 
Custom jewelry 
'lliffilge Craftus
designs since 1975. 
Full Service Florist
Repairs done on 
premises. 
& Handcrafted Gifts for All Occasions 
177·1515 
171-1740 
_._
.A 
Really
EVE'S 
VIDEO 
Poppin
~­

... Q­
7 Movies 

Soup & Sandwich Shop Haircuts only $7.00 
"Poppin Fsesh" Tanning Salon 
7Days 
•popcorn
$7.00 
• cheesecom
No Appointment 
Players Available 
•cannelcom
Necessary 
171·9980 171·1777
272·9187 


COUNTRY

f!7"11J;1i!I;~ 
Gameworld
COLLECTABLES 
Serving 6" & foot 
Sportscards 

Test your skills on whole wheat or 
long sub sandwiches 
Non-Sportscards 

on the latest and Italian bread. 
Die Cast Cars 
most popular
Each sandwich can be 
VIDEO GAMES
College Sweatshirts
served as a salad. 

(Nco-Oeos & Pinballs) 177·1011\ 
177·3010 


we·re~
GDixieCream
unuJHIIlOR 
Donuts 
Clyde's
Professional Men's & 
Breasted Chicken 
Ladies' Alterations 
"Melt in you.r mou.th 
Only The Beat! 
EAperienced Fitting 
goodness" 
"Crispy 011 lhe ouWde,
171·7124 
juicy 011 ,,. ~•• 
E,., 
tELU117 
177-1712
277·1721
AHfff 

KRIS'S 

iillil
SIGNALTRAVEL
KOUNTRY 
& TOURS, INC. 

KITCHEN -
American Expnss
Cinnamon Rolls 
Servillg 
Trat~el Service
Cookies 
North Village Mall 
RcpnsentatiWI
Breads • Party Trays 
North Store 
Special Orders 

Dine-in seating 271·7888 
171· PArA (7172) 171·5638 
9{fzifCare 

BNU!Iful Natural Loolr.lng Nldla Mlchiana's Favorite 
Natures Nutrients
0 Sculplurtd 0 Monic:&n 
•
• Gel Nil o Ptdlcutl 
Vitamins 
Minerals Banquet Faclllty 
Scacina for SO • 600 
~~~::;:no:: 

Historically Used Herbs 171·8180 
Caterina Available 
271·366312: 273-8535 

L---------' 



Locally-Owned business serving Michiana For over 20 Years 

...with more information it should become clearer... 
page 6 Friday, October 18, 1996
The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT 



Presents: 

Derrick Mayes 
Former Notre Dame All-American and current Green Bay Packer 
..... Saturday, October 19 
VARSITY SHOP 


10:00 a.m. -12:00 noon 
~ 


Joyce Center Gate 3 
"Specializing in Authentic 
Notre Dame Sportswear" 

WILL BE AVAILABLE FOR AUTOGRAPHS 

Friday, October 18, 1996 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS 
COBA: We deserve better 
By MICHAEL LEWIS 
News Writer 
Despite the snub by Business Week's listing of the nation's top 25 business schools, Notre Dame's graduate business school ranks as not only one of relation between repu­tation and salary, as the best paying schools in the study, Harvard, Stanford, Dartmouth, MIT, and Pennsylvania, 

College of Business are the oldest and have Administration, said established reputations. that Notre Dame's MBA When asked what program ranked some­Notre Dame's strongest where between number points are, Keane cited 26 and 40 in another Notre Dame's small survey recently conduct­enrollment of only 114 ed by U.S. News and in the two-year pro­World Report. That fin­gram, because it helps ish places it in the top people in the program four to six percent of the to know each other and nation's 700 programs. their staff. The program, which Also, the school has began in the late 1960s, better facilities than oth­has rapidly improved in ers, and its curriculum performance and repu­places a strong empha­
tation, Keane explained. 
Keane said that Notre Dame is competitive with Business Week's top 25 as well. COBA's applications increased 12 per­cent last year, and the students, facilities, staff, and faculty are at the best they have been. 
But Keane does not feel slighted by the rankings. He believes that the study ranked schools fairly based on their established criteria, but that they ignored some other impor­tant criteria. For example, Business Week's analysis gave no attention to facilities, an area in which Notre Dame 


•• •S!J ERNST&YOUNG LLP 
Junior Accounting Majors! Summer Internship Interviews November 12th and November 13th 

Maximize your future with an Ernst & Young summer internship! Submit your resume now to Career & Placement for an interview with us on November 12th or November 13th 
excels. Also, while it earned mention, diversity played no role in the rankings. African­American enrollment in the MBA program increased by five percent last year, an indication of a heterogeneous student body, Keane said. 

The strengths of Notre Dame's program are leader­ship/teamwork instruction, working with local companies, working with the faculty and administration, global pres­ence, integrated courses, quali­ty teaching, and surveys of prospective employers of grad­uates, according to Keane. Because these qualities do not specifically impact the Business Week study, Notre Dame loses some ground. 
Many of the top 25 schools are larger and older, and this increases their ability to per­form in categories visible to outside studies and establish a reputation. 

The average mean salary for graduates of the top 25 schools is $81,569, while Notre Dame graduates' mean salary was $53,600. There is a direct cor­
sis on ethics. Notre Dame's international program is another asset, with students in London, Santiago, Chile, and France. 
Finally, Notre Dame's alumni network is an advantage that few schools can boast of. With active participation on the part of former students, current enrollee's can count on support when they get out of school. 
The main areas of improve­ment for the school are finan­cial aid and infrastructure. The administration has already dedicated resources to career placement and counseling. 

ND faculty poet brings home Ohioana award 
Special to The Observer 
John Matthias, poet and pro­fessor of English at the University of Notre Dame, will receive the 1996 Ohioana Book Award for poetry, this Saturday at a ceremony in Columbus, Ohio. 
The Ohioana Book Awards have been given annually since 1942 by the Ohioana Library Association to honor native Ohioans who have published 
r-----------,
: 10% OFF: 
: i~ ~ Warm Up After The : 
1 rollllllf : Game With A I I •~ • Frothy, Hot 
1 ~..I 5 Caramel Apple, : 
I lA ·u· I
•€•.. 

Lotte I
Bring in this 

: •~; coupon for 10% : 1:-.; off most non-sale 1I ~a i; merchandise. 1 I ~ Ill ~ Expires Sun. Oct. 2oth 1 I ~ ; I
I ;J:o. 
5514 Grape Rd, I 
I 1 1 
I

L------------110% OFF I 





ExECUTIVE SuiTE 
JONES NEW YORK 
The store to visit be/ore the interview 
• 
Suits for men and women 

• 
JONES NEW YORK shirts and ties 

• 
JONES NEW YORK blouses 

• 
Accessories 


r-----~----------------, 
Present this coupon and receive 
10o/o OFF 
Any Suit Purchase· 
Not Valid on Sale Items or with .any other offer Expires 1211/96 
:. 707 Lighthouse Place Mall .-·~.;::.;A:jiip~ig~n.C~ty, IN (219) 879-4789 ~~-~------------------~ 
outstanding works of fiction, non-fiction, and poetry. Matthias, a native of Columbus, will be honored for his recently published book of short poems, "Swimming at Midnight." 

Matthias, a member of Notre Dame's faculty since 1967, is author or editor of 25 books of poetry. His works, appearing both in journals of poetry and in magazines such as The Nation and The Times Literary Supplement, have earned him a reputation as one of America's foremost poets, but his poems are also highly acclaimed in lit­erary communities abroad, especially in Great Britain, Sweden, and the former Yugoslavia. 
ERASMUS BOOKS 
• 
Used books bought and sold 

• 
25 categories of Books 

• 
25,000 Hardback and Paperback books in stock 

•Out-of·Print 
Search Service: $2.00 

• 
Appraisals large and small 


Open noon to six Tuesday through Sunday 1027 E. Wayne South Bend, IN 46617 (219) 232-8444 


page 8 The Observer • POLITICAL NEWS Friday, October 18, 1996 
Proposition 209 issue divides Californians 
By BURT HERMAN 
Associatod Pross Writor 
SACRAMENTO, Calif. 
It has been described as the most divisive issue on the California ballot, yet each side lays claim to the same goals, even the same heroes. 
Proposition 209 on the Nov. 5 ballot would prohibit racial and sex preferences in public hir­ing, contracting and education. 
Wednesday evening, it fig­ured in the presidential debate, with both candidates touting equal opportunity but differing fundamentally on whether California, or the nation, still needs affirmative action. 
Bob Dole said he supported Proposition 209 because affir­mative action helps only "a very small group at the top," not the average person. 
President Clinton opposed the measure, saying discrimination still exists and affirmative action gives everyone "an opportunity to prove they are qualified." 
The measure, if passed, would invalidate many pro­grams that have sought to ensure the disadvantaged ­primarily women and racial or ethnic minorities -get a piece of the action. 
Affirmative action's support­ers say policies that steer a portion of public business to minorities and women or that consider students' race, sex or ethnicity in college applications are necessa-y to r,ounteract institutional racism and sexism. 
Opponents say such efforts constitute deliberate discrimi-




LA ESPERANZA 
Authentic Mexican Kitchen "Your Passport to a New Eating Experience.' 
Serving lunch & dinner, & catering available Great Prices-Average dinner: $6.50 Averagelunch: $3.95 
TACOS... ENCHILADAS... CHIMICHANGAS.. . CHILE RELLENOS... TAMALES... FLAUTAS.. . WET BURRITOS & MORE... 
Open 7 days a week! Mon.-Thurs. 11:00 a.m.-9:00p.m. Fri. & Sat. 10:00 a.m.-10:00 p.m 
10:00 a.m.-8:00 p.m. 
IJtH'Cded at 16.16 N. Ironwood-Next door to Nick's Patio 
Witltin Walking Distance from Campus! 
nation, which is wrong no mat­ter how noble the reasons. 
'The intent of the initiative is to reaffirm our commitment to principles in the 1964 Civil Rights Act: that government treat everybody equally, with­out regard to race and sex," said Jennifer Nelson, a spokes­woman for the pro-209 cam­paign. 
Indeed, the cry of civil rights dominates the campaign. Proponents call their measure the California Civil Rights Initiative and protest loudly if reporters define it as "anti­affirmative action." They insist it is instead anti-preference. 
Both sides went to court over the printed description of Proposition 209 in the state voters' pamphlet. A description with no mention of affirmative action was retained. 
Both sides, too, have invoked such civil rights icons as Martin Luther King Jr. and Rosa Parks, whose refusal to give up her bus seat to a white man inspired the Birmingham, Ala., bus boycott that helped bring down segregation in the South. 
Ward Connerly, a University of California regent and a high­profile supporter of Proposition 209, declared in a recent debate that the civil rights struggle gave Parks the right to sit anywhere on the bus, but not the guarantee of an assigned seat. Connerly is black. 
King's famous "I have a dream" speech has been cited as a guiding principle by the proposition's supporters and detractors alike. 

Candidates plan strategies 
Clinton, Dole will target issues in coming 19 days 
By jOHN KING Associated Press Writer 
SAN DIEGO 

California's 54 electoral votes were the immediate target Thursday as President Clinton and Bob Dole began a 19-day dash to Election Day with the incumbent targeting tradition­ally Republican territory in hopes of blocking any path to a GOP comeback. 
The morning after the second and final presidential debate, strategists from both cam­paigns studied polling data as they debated strategies on issues, advertising and travel for the campaign's closing stretch. 
Dole and fellow Republicans 
Are You Interested in Tutoring Little Kids? 
The Neighborhood Study-Help Program is looking for volunteers to tutor twice a week at the following times. 
Monday/Wednesday: 
2:30-3:30 Darden Swanson 

Contact: Allen McWalters x3331 Susan Grondin x4268 
MICHIANA's '#1 Spo 
Ho111e of the 6,000 Galiup~yJtkquarium
'11!I, ,,0: AND . ' .. 
Hol!le of ANGLER'S INN RESTAURANT Invite you to visit one-·~~~thefinestoutdoor'stores in the country along with one of the best restaurants in Michiana. 
-Founded by Fran McCollester Striz. 1ST Class ofWomen-Class of 1977 Notre Dame. 
Angler's Inn features a vari­ety of food from Lunkerburgers (A Notre Dam Favorite), Buffalo Burgers, Prime Rib, Lake Perch, Alligator, BBQ Baby Back Ribs, Reubens, Frog L Homemade Breaded Pork Tender Our Famous Fish Baskets, and More! 

You must SEE this sprawling sto're to ·BELIEVE it! Just 15 minutesfrom campus, strafg~·(North on State Road 23 .·••· 
Dole 

said they were buoyed by his final debate performance. They predicted Dole's questions about Clinton's ethics would motivate GOP base voters and convince independents to give the GOP nominee another look. 
''I'm breathing easier," said Dole campaign manager Scott Reed. But he and other Republicans conceded there was a long way to go if Dole is to reverse Clinton's lopsided lead in the quest for 270 elec­toral votes. 
"l think he needs to drive home two messages: one is trust and the other is taxes," 
Tuesday/Thursday: 
4:30-5:30 Northwest 

Contact: Cindy Cicon x287 4 
• See ,9ur 6,000 
Ga~lpn 

·"""uru.al' .urn I of phy 
from 

·• See LIVE SHARKS 'swim in our I ,000 Gallon Corai~ReefTank while you dine at Angler's Inn 
Restaurant. ., J 
said Republican pollster Ed Goeas. He conceded Dole's task was gargantuan, but found encouragement in the debate and recent polling data sug­gesting Republican voters were growing increasingly motivated as the election nears. 
"Now he has to find a way to shake independent voters and get them to reassess their early decision to support Clinton," Goeas said. 
With the debates over and the campaign now reduced to day­to-day combat, Democrats were dubious Dole could engineer a redefining moment. 
"The biggest problem for Bob Dole is all the fundamental opportunities to be ·seen, be evaluated and be re-evaluated are now over, and there is no evidence voters have changed their opinion of Bob Dole," said Democratic pollster Peter Hart. 
On the morning after the debate, both campaigns talked boldly. 
------------~ 
Friday, October 18, 1996 

By WILLIAM J. KOLE 
Associated Press Writer 
PARIS 
Stung by pay freezes and planned job cuts, workers from across France's sprawling state sector staged a one-day strike Thursday, grounding flights and closing schools nationwide. 
The walkout by an estimated 
1.6 million public employees forced the cancellation of most airline flights and made rail travel difficult. It also shut down government offices and post offices. 
Yet only about one in three 

The Observer • INTERNATIONAL NEWS page 9 
Tragedy strikes at soccer Inatch 
By SERGIO CARRASCO 
Inside, giddy fans waved Associated Press Writer national flags, chanted "Gua­te-ma-la!" drank and cheered. GUATEMALA CITY Some clung to the iron frame­
The joyful screaming of fans work of the stadium lighting or drowned out the shrieks-of dangled their legs from the panic. Even as paramediCs and press box roof. firemen began laying out the Camouflaged troops had to corpses, fans were doing the chase away some who started wave. to invade the area near the 
The horror of what happened presidential box. Wednesday night was slow to The tragedy struck at about dawn on the more than 50,000 7:25 p.m. Officials at first said people at the Mateo Flores sta­angry ticket holders outside dium, a frenzied crowd wild forced a door and poured into with anticipation of the World the southern end of the stadi­Cup soccer qualifying match um, where Guatemala fans between Guatemala and Costa were concentrated. But police Rica. later said fans were fleeing a 
Only when radio stations drunken brawl. began to broadcast news of "Those above began to push what had happened in a dimly and those who died were those lit corner of the stands did a who were seated," said Juan hush fall over the crowd and Bautista Cabrera, a 72-year-old the players stop their warmups. 
stadium worker. Then, President Alvaro Arzu 
"They all wanted to sit, and

Recent deadly stampedes 
that is where the problem start­took the field, microphone in 

at soccer stadiums: 
ed ... Those who were in the first "One of the worst tragedies in hand. 
rows were carried to the front," 

October 16, 1996 -Guatemala City
our country has occurred 
against the metal fence. 

At least 83 people killed and 180 hurt
tonight," he said. He said the 
"There were corpses on

in stampede at World Cup qualifying 
corpses," he added: "When I

match was suspended and 
match 

saw this, I called the adminis­ing. 
declared three days of mourn­
June 16, 1996-Lusaka, Zambia 
trator to open the gate." The stampede killed 78 soc­
Nine people killed and 78 injured at 
Police finally managed to cer fans, and injured more than 
World Cup qualifying match 
open a 3-foot-wide gate to let 

100. It apparently resulted 
some people out. 

April15, 1989-Sheffield, England
from the same deadly factors But the sight of the open door 
95 people killed in stampedes as 
prompted a new surge of pan­

that have created soccer 
fights broke out in stadium
tragedies before: too many 
icked spectators trampling atop public employees joined in, the 

March 12, 1988 -Katmandu, Nepal
spectators, too much crowding, one another to reach it.
government said, in contrast to 
"Suddenly people started

93 people killed and more than
the union solidarity that crip­few ways to escape when an 
100 injured as fans fled hailstorm
incident sparks a panic, and the falling on top of m~. and I faint­pled the country with a 3 1/2­
ed," recalled 24-year-old

week-long strike a year ago. panic ills. 
The fans began to arrive AP Wendy Patricia Bonilla. "I woke 
Union bosses threatened to 

rekindle last year's labor hours before the 8 p.m. match. up here in the hospital." 
The black-bereted Special
They started flooding in when Yet most in the stadium were
unrest -the worst in France Forces police were helpless to
the stadium opened at 4:30 oblivious to the tragedy -per­
since 1968 -and called for keep fans out of the aisles. But 
p.m. They filled the 45,000 haps because poor lighting
tougher action. alarmed by the growing throng, 
"It has to be even stronger," seats and benches, paying made it difficult to see.
they began to close ent:-ances 
admitted Louis Viannet, head of between $50 and $3 each. Then at about 7 p.m., leaving many Gradually players who had they began to clog the aisles, just taken the field stopped
the Communist-led General angry ticket holders outside. 
clambered atop walls, even up their warmups and turned
Labor Confederation, in ali At about that time, two men 
interview with Europe 1 radio. to the rooftops. were arrested on suspicion of toward the disturbance. As they There were no security saw bodies being brought out,
"There must be convergence selling counterfeit tickets -a
checks. Many fans brought in many embraced one another
between public and private practice that officials later said
beer. and began to cry. 
employees." led to overcrowding . 

• 
Furnished apartments 

• 
Swimming pool •Jacuzzi 

•Tennis, 
volleyball, & basketball courts 

• 
24 hour laundry 

• 
Shuttle bus 

• 
Professional management 


Apartments available for your selection. 
For more information c 
272-1441 


Don't miss AUDIO ADRENALINE at ELCO Friday, Oct. 11 in Elkhart On Sale Now-219-293-4469 
~----------~-------­
page 10 


Friday, October 18, 1996
The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT 
Dear Alumni and Friends, 
The staff ofCatnpus Ministry extends an invitation to come together and celebrate the Eucharist this weekend 
Air Force Football Weekend October 19 and 20, 1996 
Saturday Vigil Masses 
Basilica 30 minutes after game 

Stepan Center 45 minutes after game 
Sunday Masses 
Basilica 8:00, 10:00, & 11:45 a.tn. 
Sacred Heart . 6:00, 7:00, 8:00 Parish Crypt 9:30 & 11:00 a.tn. 


.. 
----~ 

Friday, October 18, 1996 
page 11 


• RUSSIA 
By LOUIS OKAMBA Associated Press Writer 
BRAZZAVILLE, Congo 

The Ebola virus has killed a forest worker in Gabon, rais­ing the death toll to 11 in the West African nation's second outbreak of the disease this year, the World Health Organization said Thursday. 
In addition, the WHO said four more people have become infected with the virus in the past two days -three.of them young children ages 51 3, and 7 months. ·· 
All of them have been in close contact with other Ebola patients.The virus is highly contagious, spreading through bodily fluids such as blood and saliva. 
It kills 80 percent of those infected. Symptoms include fever, vomiting, diarrhea and internal hemorrhaging. 
In February, an outbreak of the disease in Gabon killed 21 the se died on Atig. in .Botle, ·the 
east of the ~-J~·--·· 
where theou tered, according Ministry of Health. 
WHO officials response would . the spread of education and campaign. had health workers in region, and i:!PI'"l(Ull:'...., 

• JAPAN 
Japanese gunman leads car chase 
By BRAYEN SMILLIE 
Associated Press Writer 
TOKYO 

A taxi driver with a shotgun dragged his two children into a stolen car and led police on a six-hour car chase Thursday while horrified Japanese watched the drama on live tele­vision. 
The incident began early Thursday morning when the gunman, identified as 45-year­old Takumi Yanagita, marched into another man's home and shot him to death. 
Yanagita's two children had been at the victim's home, and he took them along during the chase in which 900 police offi­cers were mobilized. Both chil­dren survived unharmed. 
Authorities said they had no idea what Yanagita's motive was. 
Kyodo News agency quoted unnamed police officials as say­ing Yanagita's wife had been hiding from him at the house for 10 days. 
TV stations showed footage of the gunman's car smashing through roadblocks and cutting across farmland to elude the police dragnet. 
Videotape shot from a heli­copter showed the car taking narrow roads snaking through farmland and forests. 
The 36-mile chase ended with the vehicle crashing into a bar­ricade of parked police cars. Police said Yanagita, who was shot in the leg, was taken into custody and will be charged with murder. 

During the chase, Yanagita fired his pump-action shotgun about 30 times, and police said they returned fire. 
Six policemen were injured as Yanagita fired on them and crashed into the patrol cars. 
In a nation where gun owner­ship is strictly controlled, police spokesmen spent a major part of a news conference explain­ing why they took the step ­considered drastic in Japan ­of firing their guns in public. 

Ombudsperson 
The University of Notre Dame is pleased to announce that Professor Lloyd Ketchum will serve as University Ombudsperson for Discriminatory Harassment. 
If you are a victim of discriminatory harassment and do not know where to turn, call the University Ombudsperson for Discriminatory Harassment at 631-3909. 
The University of Notre Dame believes in the intrinsic value of all human beings. It is, moreover, committed to the full peaceable participation of all its members in the educational endeavor it fosters. Accordingly, the University prohibits discriminatory harassment by all faculty, administrators, staff and students. 
In this context. harassment is any physical conduct intentionally inflicting injury on the person or property of another, or any intentional threat of such conduct, or any hostile intentional, and persistent badgering, addressed directly at another, or small groups of others, that is intended to intimidate its victim(s) from any University activity, or any verbal attack, intended to provoke the victim to immediate physical retaliation. Harassment in general is prohibited in the University's regulations. 
Discriminatory harassment is conduct which qualifies as harassment as defined above accompanied by intentionally demeaning expressions concerning the race, gender, religion, sexual orientation or national origin of the victim(s). 
For a fuller description of discriminatory harassment see du Lac, the Faculty Handbook or Staff Handbook. 

Yeltsin ousts Lebed amid coup charges 
By DAVE CARPENTER 
Associated Press Writer 
MOSCOW 

Sacked by a livid Boris Yeltsin amid charges he was plotting a coup, national security chief Alexander Lebed wasted no time Thursday serving his own gruff notice: He will be out to campaign for the ailing presi­dent's job. 
The Kremlin, rent by power struggles as Yeltsin prepares for heart surgery, turned out to be too small for the aspirations of both these high-powered leaders, who feuded openly during Lebed's four-month stint in the Cabinet. 
Although Yeltsin gained office with help from the widely pop­ular, 46-year-old Lebed, the relationship paid off for Lebed, too. Pursuing his own designs on the presidency, Lebed increased his popularity by reaching a peace agreement with Chechen rebels; he raised his profile by incessantly criti­cizing -and infuriating -his Kremlin peers. 
The dismissal came just a day after Lebed's bitter rival for authority in security decisions -Interior Minister Anatoly Kulikov -accused him of plot­ting to form his own 50,000­man army with sights on seiz­ing power in a "mutiny." 
No evidence surfaced to back this sensational charge, and Yeltsin ignored talk of coups when he announced Lebed's ouster on national television. 
Scowling, moving stiffly but speaking clearly and more res­olutely than he has in recent appearances, Yeltsin declared that Lebed's unilateral actions, excessive ambition and outspo­kenness were damaging to the country. 
With hands clenched into fists on the table in front of him and eyes narrowed, the president looked angrier than he has in years and healthier and more in command than he has in weeks. 
"I can't tolerate the situation any more," Yeltsin said, slowly and deliberately signing a decree dismissing Lebed. He spoke at the health spa where he has been resting up for 
heart bypass surgery next month. 
Pegged by many as Yeltsin's likely successor, Lebed was characteristically unbowed. He announced plans to start cam­paigning soon to replace Yeltsin, who many suspect is too ill to serve out the rest of a term that lasts until 2000. Lebed denied the coup allega­tions, and has insisted he wants to gain office only through the ballot box. 
He said he would not launch his campaign while the presi­dent is alive. "Today he's an elderly and ill person," Lebed said. "It's not for me to kick the one who is down." 
Lebed's departure could end for now the noisy Kremlin infighting that has created a widespread impression of chaos. 
But with Yeltsin sidelined from full-time duty until at least early 1997, the govern­ment is likely to remain weak, beset by internal bickering and external criticism bound to increase now that Lebed is on the outside. 
But the firing creates new obstacles to a lasting peace set­tlement in Chechnya, where Lebed was the architect of con­troversial August agreements with separatist leaders that halted 20 months of fighting. 
A rebel spokesman said Thursday night that Lebed's dismissal will lead to "tragic consequences" for Russia. Ruslan Chimayev told the Interfax news agency that Lebed had fallen "victim to the 'party of war' that seeks a con­tinuation of the slaughter in Chechnya." 
Lebed's signing of a Chechnya accord, criticized by many top politicians as a sell­out of the Russian army, only boosted his popularity among Russians who made the politi­cal newcomer a surprise third­place finisher in June presiden­tial elections. 
In a nationwide survey last month, Lebed was deemed Russia's most trusted politician with more than twice the rating of Communist leader Gennady Zyuganov, who came next. Yeltsin was a distant fifth. 
4th Annual 
Mara Fox Fun Run 
November 2, 1996 
10:00 A.M. 
To Benefit the 
MraJ 1rraJ F([))Jt Mcem(()) triroJ ~ § r1h ([))~raJ 1f§ 1hip Fv;rrmrdl 

???'s or Donations, call Steph @ 634-2780 Jen @ 634-2871 
VIEWPOINT 
page 12 Friday, October 18, 1996 
THE OBSERVER 


NoTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1996-97 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Elizabeth Foran Managing Editors Business Manager Pauici.1 Carson Man Casey Tom Roland 
News Editor ........................ Brad Prcndcrgan Advertising Manager.... . ................. Ellen Ryan Viewpoint Editor... . ... Ethan Hayward Ad Design Manager ...............................jed Peters Sports Editor ...................Timothy Sherman Production Managcr................•......Tara Grieshop Accent Editor........................... Joey Crawford Systems Manager......... . ....... Michael Brouillet 
Saint Mary's Editor.................Caroline Blum Controller..........................................Tyler Weber Photo Editor .......................... Michael Ruma 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the s<udenrs of the University of Notre 
D.-.mc du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It docs not necessarily rdlect the policies of the administra­
tion of either institUlion. The news is reponed as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned edi­torials represent the opinion of rhe majoriry of the Editor-in-Chief. Managing Editor, News Editor, 
Viewpoint Editor, Accent Ediror, Photo Ediror, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries. leners and Inside Columns present rhe views of rhc authors, and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's com­munity and to all readers. The free expression of varying opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines Editor-in-Chief 631·4542 Business Office 631-5313 Managing Editor/Viewpoint 631-4541 Advertising 631-6900/8840 Sports 631-4543 Systems/Marketing Dept. 631-8839 News/Ph oro 631-5323 Office Manager 631-7471 Accent/Saint Mary's 631-4540 Fax 631-6927 Day Editor/Production 631-5303 Viewpoint E-Mail Viewpoint.! @nd.edu licncrallnformation 631-7471 Ad E-Mail observer@darwin.cc.nd.edu 
• EDITORIAL 

Kirk decision correct 
Put yourself in the position of Blll Kirk. The assistant vice presi­dent for residence liftl received a request last week from Sean Galla van, co-chair of Gays and Lesbians of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's (GLND/SMC), for approval of a demonstration for "N~;~:ti<il}al Coming Out Week. ·· 
There's nothing wrong with homosexual students holding a demonstration; if they've got something to say, Jet them say it. But common decency dictates that demonstrations by any student group must be registered with the University. And registration isn't censorship; the University has the right to know what's hap­pening on its campus. . 
The rules for registering a demonstration are simple. According to du Lac, the demonstrations (a) must be peaceful and orderly, and (b) the demonstrators may not impede the freedom of the campus community. That's just common sense. The third and final regultttlon is that demonstrations may only be organized or led by members of the University eommunity. Because GLND/SMC is not a mcognized group. it does not fall under the defmition of a "mem­ber of the University community." . 
When Gallavan submitted a letter asking the University to approve the demonstration, he said in the letter that the demon~ stration "will be Jed by myself, an undergraquate student," imply* lng that he was making the request within his status as a student and not within his role as a co-chair of GLND/SMC. 
While individual students certainly are members of the University community, Gallavan submitted his request on GLNDISMC letterhead and he signed the letter as a co-chair of GLND/SMC. There was simply no way that Kirk could ignore GLND/SMC's role in the organization of the demonstration. Consequently. Gallavan's request was not approved. 
Gallavan's strategy wa..<> either the product of foolish thinking or a blatant attempt to corner the University in a difficult position. Neither strategy is going to win people over, and rightly so. 
The Observer has written past editorials calling for recognition of GLND/SMC, but if last week's events were an attempt to force the University's hand into making a move toward that aim, it was not the way to go. Kirk deserves credit for his decision. 
And boca us(~ of the manner In which GLND/SMC approached the registration process, Kirk said he could not approve a similar request by the College Democrats when that organization sought to register the same event later in the week. 
Squelching a demonstration request by a recognized student group is cause for concern. Kirk noted that GLND/SMC was the sponsor of the event, not the College Democrats. but du Lac does not prohibit recognized groups from collaborating wltb others in organizJng evenl<>. 
With that aside. the University deserves praise for how it han­dled the fact that GLND/SMC went ahead and congre~ated on Fieldhouse Mall during midday last Friday. The University made no attempt to break up the event -and had never threatened to do so, either, despite the speculations of GLND/SMC members. A lone plaindothos security officer watched the events. 
In a week ot' political maneuvering between different organiza­tions. it wns a decidedly apolitical response from the University. It was also tl1e right one. 

• LEITERS TO THE EDITOR 
Rice's column contains subtext 
Dear Editor: 
If anyone had second thoughts about the appro­priateness of Professor O'Hara's special welcome to gay and Lesbian students, the Oct. 4 column by Charles Rice would make them understand how necessary those comments were and will continue to be. 
Professor Rice implies that by evoking "official Church teaching" rather than spelling out the basis for that teaching, the University is stating, albeit indirectly, that it approves of homosexuali­ty. In other words, the university's position con­tains a subtext, not apparent upon first reading. 
Rice's column also contains a subtext, one which exemplifies the terrible hostility faced by homo­sexual men and women as they confront the truth of their lives and live them out. He indirectly equates homosexuality with a laundry list of aber­rant inclinations: shoplifting. bulimia, alcoholism, drug dealing, and arson. Even a cursory glance reveals chat whatever "inclination" is at work in each of these cases, its relationship to one's fun­damental identity is totally different from that which moves someone to know that he/she is homosexual. 
Sexual identity is at tho core of who we are and the filter through which we relate to each ocher as friends or lovers; sexual identity is discovered, not chosen. Therefore, to equate an "inclination" to homosexuality with an "inclination" to shoplift­ing is not only ludicrous but profoundly insulting to chose many women and men who come to know that they are homosexual in a world hostile to that discovery. 
What was Rice's purpose in writing this col­umn? The appeal to natural law and abstractions about "objective disorder" undoubtedly have little impact on the young men and women of this cam­pus who right now, this year. are attempting to find their way as gays and lesbians. However, the disdainful, albeit indirect, equation of homosexu­ality with scourges such as drug-dealing will likely be long remembered as yet another reminder of why it is so often very painful to diseover and affirm homosexual identity. 
MARY LOUISE GUDE, CSC Assistant Chair, Department of Romance Languages 
Flip Side seeks fun alternatives, not temperance 
Dear Editor: 
We are deeply offended by the certain 
thoughtless remarks in Chris Kratovil's 
Viewpoint column (Oct. 7 edition of The 
Observer) regarding the group Flip Side. 
Kratovil's referenee to Flip Side was not 
only out of line but also completely out of 
touch with what this 100-plus member dub 
is about. 
Kratovil seems to feel that Flip Side, led 
by Father Malloy, would strive unceasingly to tear down his life dream of exploiting Notre Dame's binge drinking status by opening a liquor store on campus. Irresponsible comments such as these have contributed to the faulty (though fortunate­ly dwindling) impression of our club as ·some sort of outspoken temperance organi­zation dedicated to 'drying out' our great 
campus. 
Thankfully, Flip Side's purpose is none 
other than to provide fun, alternative activ­
ities for students, both on and off campus. 
Our activities range from a hayride with 
campfire to a campus mystery show. 
While our activities do not center around 
alcohol(we are, after all a University spon­
sored group), Flip Side neither supports. 
nor has anything to do with any attempt to 
make our campus dry, whether actual or 
perceived [which is most likely the easel. 
On behalf of the group Flip Side, I hopn 
the ignorance demonstrated in this article 
was not representative of the Observer's 
journalistic standards. 
JOHN GUNNIGLE 
President Emeritus. Flip Side 
Flanner Hall 
• DOONESBURY 
7HANK'3, 8elmtt3. YOURt!AI.JZ&, 
CFtlJ(J~,7li!SI57Ht3t:XAOT . S.Wt: JOB I /IJJUW'Ve HA!J 
IF YOU HA/?N'TRRE/J ME LA'STPRING! 

GARRY TRUDEAU 
7/JRE,81JT 
UNTIL.-7Ht:N, 
7HINKOr/ffi 
A~ F/IM!t.Y. I 

• fiUOTE OF THE DAY 
"The ultimate result of 
shielding men from the effects of folly is to fill the world with fools." 
-Herbert Spencer 
----------------------------------------------------------~--------~ 
VIEWPOINT
Friday, October 18, 1996 page 13 
Parties differ on status of education president 
• COLLEGE DEMOCRATS • COLLEGE REPUBLICANS 
The key to solving the problems which confront America -drugs, violence, The question often asked in educational debates is, "Who would be the better unemployment, discrimination,etc. -is committing ourselves to giving every education president?" However, a more accurate question is, "Can a good 'educa­American an equal opportunity at getting a complete education. President Clinton tion president' exist?" recognizes this, and that is why improving the quality and availability of education Democratic logic suggests that there is a direct correlation between money allot-is a top priority for his second term. . ted to the Department of Education and the quality of national education. 
The President realizes that the federal government cannot legislate improved However, the Department has done nothing but impose a series of unfunded man­
public education, which is why he supports the discretion of individual communi-dates and irrelevant curriculum requirements without effecting any improvement 
ties and states when it comes to education policy. He favors school choice and in the quality of education. Rather than throwing money at problems, Bob Dole 
vouchers if the individual community or state feels that increased competition is and the ~epublican Party believe that the nation's educational ills can be reme­
necessary to raise the quality of education. Dole wants to institute a federal man-died only through local and state initiatives and cooperation with private enter­
date for school choice and vouchers. Dole's plan will only increase federal bureau-prise. Take for example Clinton's $2 billion, 5-year program designed to hook 
cracy and force school systems which are succeeding into a every classroom to the Internet. Corporations across the nation 
system which will constrict them and potentially cause the have already volunteered such services without government 
quality of education to deteriorate. involvement. The Department is at best a redundancy and more 
While states and communities are best suited to manage the often than not a detriment to effective, localized education. 
education of their youth, the President recognizes that they Union domination of both the educational system and the 
cannot do it alone, which is why he favors maintaining and President trying to better this system also present a stumbling 
strengthening the Department of Education to ensure that block to reform. Rather than a system of education that rewards 
basic benchmarks are achieved. Dole would abolish the educators on the basis of merit, the old-style union organization 
Department and leave public school systems with nowhere to c___________, L--------------' has established a system that rewards teachers for seniority. This 
turn for support. By empowering states and communities to system may work for traditional labor unions, but it presents com­
manage their own school systems, and while still preserving the Department of petent educators from improving the schools in which they already work. America 
Education, the President strikes an effectual balance between state and federal needs a President that is not tied to the whims of union bosses, but rather allows 
responsibilities which will allow public education to thrive. individual parents and teachers to control the educational destinies of children. 
Higher education is a top priority for the President as well. "We must make two In addition, a wholesale increase in the size of student loan programs without 
years of college just as universal as four years of a high school education is today," addressing the underlying issue of wildly inflationary college tuitions will yield 
he declared in his acceptance speech at the convention. To accomplish this, the only more of the same. Rather than making college more affordable, near-univer­
President proposes a tuition tax credit, an opportunity scholarship for qualified sal loans merely invite administrators to raise tuitions still more in anticipation of 
high school graduates, and allowing $10,000 in college tuition costs to be tax-free greater Federal largess. In the end, a few students are forced to pay uncon­
each year. He will also preserve the federal student loans guarantee program, Pell scionably high tuition rates while many more are relegated to years of dependency 
Grant Scholarships, the HOPE scholarship program, the National Service Act, and on a distant bureaucratic system strangling in its own red tape. The Republican 
the Direct Lending program which allows students flexible payment options for system of tax cuts will ensure a greater amount of discretionary income for rami­
student loans. These initiatives will empower Americans by giving them the lies and increased competitiveness on the part of universities 
opportunity to get a complete and affordable education. We must also address the philosophical question of whether a college education 
Dole on the other hand did little in his career in the Senate to empower is indeed a right to be underwritten by the government or rather a privilege to be 
Americans through education the way Clinton has done and will do in his second awarded through merit. Rather than devaluing a college degree through weak and 
term. Dole has put federal student loan programs on the table for cuts under his uninformative courses designed merely to include as many students as possible in 
risky economic scheme. He opposed the President's Direct Lending program and the college scene, the Republican Party argues that, as in all things, the country 
supported a GOP initiative to eliminate the six-month grace period granted to col-should start from the ground up and improve elementary and secondary educa­
lege graduates before having to pay back their student loans. Both these actions tion to the point where a high school diploma can yield a good job as well as 
would make it increasingly burdensome to repay a student loan, allowing fewer preparation for college-level work. Rather than making a college degree the aim 
Americans to take advantage of them. of its students, America should make a solid education the primary goal. 
Education is vital to America's future. The key to expelling America's social mal-In short, throwing money at education will do nothing but take more money 
adies is empowering people through education. By investing in our young and from parents and students already struggling under the weight of excessive gov­
ensuring that every American can get a complete education, we will build a bridge ernment interference. America must return control to the true guardians of edu­
to the 21st century. That is what President Clinton has done and will do for cation: the parents, teachers, and students. Only then will the nation see the true 
America. educational renaissance to which all Americans look forward. 
NOTRE DAME COLLEGE DEMOCRATS NOTRE DAME COLLEGE REPUBLICANS 
AI writtm by J-P. Coonry. AI writtm by Matt Gmtile and Luke White. 
' 
• RIGHT OR WRONG? 
Fact Sheet should display real cost of ND degree 
Last October. this column suggested that the University's Fact Sheet should include four new items to help appli­cants evaluate the financial aspects of attendance at Notre Dame. When this year's Fact Sheet appeared, none of those items was included. Persistence, however, is supposed to be a virtue. So Jet me try again with a streamlined ver-
Charles Rice 

sion, suggesting only that next year's Fact Sheet could be improved if it dis­closed two new things: 
1. What does it really cost to attend Notre Dame, compared to the pre­Research University days? 
In 1978-79, Notre Dame's undergrad tuition, room and board totaled $5,180. In 1994 dollars, on the Consumer Price Index, that amounts to $11,758. In 1996-97, the Notre Dame total is $23,660. Given the estimated 3.5 per­cent inflation rate since 1994, that total this year is almost doubled, in real money, what it was before Notre Dame intensified its drive for Research Prestige. The 1996-97 figure rose over the previous year by $1,180, or 5.5 per­cent, although the annual increase is edging down toward the 3.5 percent inflation figure. A disclosure in the Fact Sheet that students pay nearly twice as much, in real money, as they did in the pre-Research University days, could pro­mote constructive discussion as to whether they are getting twice the value. It would also enable prospective students to evaluate lower-cost alterna­tives. The College Board states that "a majority of all students at four-year col­leges and universities pay less that $4,000 for tuition and fees," not includ­ing room and board. "Nearly three­quarters pay less than $6,000." Only 6.6 percent of full-time undergrads at four­year colleges pay tuition and fees in excess of $18,000. Notre Dame's under­grad tuition for 1996-97 is $18,810. 
2. For Notre Dame students who have to borrow, how much debt can they expect to have after graduation? 
Student borrowing for college has increased more than 50 percent since 1992. A 1978 law removed income restrictions on federal loans. But, as Fortune magazine warned, "anything that makes it easier to pay tuition bills will also make it easier to raise tuition charges." The major universities, includ­ing Notre Dame, have lobbied Congress to increase the loan limits. As the limits have gone up, so has the tuition, with the universities financing their research and expansion projects on the backs of the borrowing students. Federal loan programs have disbursed more in the last four years than in their first twenty. In 1995-96, reports the College Board, federal loan programs provided 57 per­cent of all financial aid. "For most of those loans, the ... government pays the interest while borrowers are...in school. However, a growing share of... loans [in 1995-96, more than one-third] are now unsubsidized, adding in-school interest charges to the borrower's total cost...In contrast to loan aid, federal grant sup­port to students declined in 1995-96." 
Notre Dame commendably helps stu­dents bridge the gap between the stu­dent's resource, including loans, and the costs. In 1995-96, University-adminis­tered scholarships were given to 2,417 students, with an average grant of $5,057, brought the cost to those stu­dents down to $18,603, which is still $6,845 more than the pre-Research University cost in real money. Notre Dame's aid, however, is ordinarily given only after the student has borrow what he/she can. For students who borrow heavily, the loan burden restricts their career and family options. Among indebted Notre Dame law students, for instance, total indebtedness of $70,000 is not uncommon, with more than a few over $100 thousand .. The figures for undergrads are proportionately com­parable. The class of 1996 at Notre Dame Law School, excluding those with no debt, entered law school with ~nd average debt of $33,000. 
Why should the fact Sheet include the details of true cost and the probable loan burden? The answer is: Truth in Labeling. Notre Dame profits from its historic appeal to middle-class and wage-earning families. The "Rudy" syn­drome reinforce this appeal. But Rudy was here before this place defined itself as a Research University. The main impact of the escalating tuition and loan burden is the practical foreclosing of a Notre Dame education to middle class students, apart for ROTC, scholarship athletes, faculty and staff children and special scholarships. The practical dou­bling of the real cost of a Notre Dame education over the past two decades and the probable loan burden should be components in a non-wealthy student's decision as to whether enrollment at Notre Dame is a prudent choice. Other educational factors are difficult to quan­tify. But Notre Dame ought to make full disclosure of the quantifiable cost loan factors. 
It would also help if the University would explain why the real cost of a Notre Dame education should be practi­cally double what it was before the Research Greatness years. The 1996-97 Fact Sheet stated that the market value of Notre Dame's Endowment is "more than $1.22 billion," and increase in one year of $250 million, or $23,809 for each of the approximately 10,500 stu­dents at Notre Dame. In Fiscal Year 1995, cash contributions to the University totaled a record $70.2 mil­lion, or $6,685 per student. One can fairly ask: Why does tuition keep going up when money in such amounts is cas­cading into the University's coffers and when the Endowment is more than ten times the $113 million Endowment of 1978? "(S]tudent tuition and fees" said The 1996-97 Fact Sheet, "generally account for about 45 percent of [University] income." As former Provost O'Meara put it, Notre Dame's budget is "tuition driven." 
In terms of variety, availability and quality of courses and quality of teach­ing, it can hardly be claimed that under­grads receive anything close to twice the value that students received two decades ago. Nor is it merely incidental that the formerly pastoral Notre Dame has been transformed into a crowded urban-style campus like those at the big Research Universities. As one senior professor in another college of the University said to me, "A few years ago, professors normally taught three cours­es or sections. Now they teach one. So they have to hire more professors, or reduce the number of courses or over­crowd the sections, or use grad students to teach. And the professor, to do his research, needs research assistants and they need office space. That's why we have some of the new buildings." This comment, though undocumented, has the ring of truth. 
These remarks, while critical of poli­cies, involve no criticism of persons. Our leaders act in what they see as the best interest of the University and its stu­dents. But the University ought to at least disclose the financial realities to its prospective and present students. 
Professor Rice is on the Law School faculty. His column appears every other Friday. 
------~--------------~---------------­
Friday, October 18, 1996 The Observer • Irish Focus 
'Until my mother can see her face ... ' 
They arrive at the stadium around 
2:30 in the afternoon. And over the course of the next 10 hours, the stu­dent football managers prepare the helmets for the home game the next day. 
The process begins by removing the helmets' chin straps and padding, and then wrapping them in cellophane to protect them from the paint. Then 16 privileged sophomores have the honor of buffing the helmets and removing the dents and scratches from the prac­tices and the last game. A mixture of lacquer and thinner, and a coat of gold paint -administered by the elite crew ofjuniors -provide the final gloss. 

Ron Powlus' helmet receives special care. Keeping in mind that NBC's cam­eras will be focusing on that particular helmet for almost four hours, John Petz, an Alumni Hall junior and the head painter, personally ensures that Powlus' helmet will gleam. 
"That's worked on until my mother can see her face in the helmet," Petz said. 
During the 10 hours of duty into the Friday night, the crew members makes sure they have a good time. 
"There's a lot of music and a lot of goofing around," Petz said. "It's a close-knit thing, One of the special things about this organization is that you develop really close bonds with each other." 
Above, junior John Petz of Alumni Hall, the head painter, exam­ines some of his work. Right, helmets are lined up waiting to be painted. 



Right, junior football man­ager Paul Crowley buffs one of over 1 00 helmets. Left, John Petz works on painting. Painters mix some actual gold into the paint that they apply to the helmets 
Photos by Rob Finch Story by Brad Prendergast 

ACCE-NT 
Friday, October 18, 1996 page 15 
What will you be doing over break? 

Amusing stories by Melanie Waters and Dan Cichalski. Outstanding art by Ryan Meinerding. 
'~l right, listen up," barks Megan. "This is MY car, so you will abide by MY 
rules! Got it? Rule 1: Absolutely no touching the radio unless I tell you to. 
ule 2: Country music is hereby banned from this trip. Rule 3: Positively no puking allowed. Rule 4: If you must remove your shoes, for God's sake keep your feet off the driver's headrest! And Rule 5: If you spill something, at least make sure it's the same color as the interior. Let's go!" 
Megan and her friends, itching for excitement and generally disgusted with South Bend's weather, have decided to throw responsibility and empty Burger King cups to the wind to set off on a road trip adventure. 
Of course, picking a destination led to so many arguments that they almost decided not to go. 
Jim longed to show his friends the wonders of his home in beautiful Piqua, Ohio, and especially had looked forward to introducing them to Fifi, his prize winning State Fair cow. Then, to really whoop it up, they could check out the night life in downtown Dayton! 
Christy and Bob were quick to nix Jim's "udderly" pathetic plan. And while Christy voted to spend the week in Chicago stalking cast members of "ER," Bob begged to pitch a tent in front of Yankee stadium to teach his friends to "fully appreciate the ambience of World Series baseball!" 
However, Jim, Christy and Megan vetoed that plan, noting, as Megan said, "I have no ~esire to die in New York after being mugged and trampled by insane drunk peo­ple. 
Bob reminded her that she took this risk each week at the Linebacker, but to no avail. 
In the end, the old "my car, my rules, I get the final say" clause won out. The group has decided to trek up to Ontario, Canada, for a fun-filled week of gambling, partying, imbibing, and generally shunning all academic responsibilities they might have. 
After all, isn't that what Fall Break is all about? 
D
ropping in on Jane and Joe as they pack their respective suitcases to embark on the final Fall Break of their Notre Dame careers, we gain fascinating and enlightening insight into the thoughts of similar students as they gear up for a daunting slew of interviews. 
And while both are comfortably happy with their six month relationship, certain inevitable questions arise. 
See Jane. See Jane pack. See Jane freak out. 
"Should I take all twelve of these suits?" she muses. "Purple doesn't really go with my hair color. Can I wear heels or should I just take flats? What if my mascara .smudges during the interview? Will they notice my split ends? Did Joe notice that I painted my nails? Why hasn't he called yet today? What if we take jobs that are hundreds of miles apart? What if he thinks I'm being too career oriented? What if we get married and work two jobs and he criticizes my cooking but it's not my fault because, really, does he think I have time to be June Cleaver work­ing those kind of hours? That jerk! Arrrggh!" 
Meanwhile, in Joe's room... 
"llmm. A button fell off my interview suit. Maybe I lost it at the SYR. Maybe I should buy another suit sometime. After all, I did get this one for high school graduation. Now let's see, where's that napkin that I wrote my interview times on?" 
Back at Jane's, she frantically searches for her leather-bound portfolio and combination cal­endar/notebook/wallet/planner. She has already called to confirm her interview times and con­tact names, and has printed 25 copies of her Resume Expert extraordinaire. 
"Plane tickets? Check. Bottled water? Check. Hmm...I wonder if 15 pair of pantyhose is enough...." Joe has managed to cram all of his belongings into one duffel bag, figuring that since his interviews are in his hometown of Boston, then Mom can iron everything when he gets there. 
"I think I have extra socks at home. And isn't that toothbrush still in the car?" 
Finally ready to embark on their career searches, Joe drops Jane off at the airport before leaving for home. 
"Well, good luck, honey!" he tells her, amazed at his how mature he has become in four short years. Heck, not only is he looking for a job, but he is actually at the "dropping-off-at-the-air­port" stage of a relationship for the first time ever. Scary. 
And as they head off in opposite directions, they at least have this comforting thought as they search for jobs: "Thank God I'm not an English major." 


I
t's about time. After a week of catching up and relearning all the material from half a semester in one week, Barry is ready for a break. A big break. It's time to pack up, fly off, and kick back. 
While friends and classmates head off to Texas, New England, the Jersey Shore or just plain stay in South Bend, he is heading home. A week of sleep, rest, and home cooking should provide the perfect panacea for what he's been through. 
He thought he had a date for his formal the weekend after the break. But she backed out, saying her grandfather-might be dying that weekend. 
He thought he was all set for that theology midterm on Thursday, until he discovered Wednesday that he left the course packet in the O'Shaughnessy classroom and had to bor­row a classmate's and photocopy 50 pages only to learn that another classmate had picked it up after class and left it under a mess on his desk in the SUB office. 
He thought he'd be watching his Baltimore Orioles in the World Series. 
Now he doesn't think anymore. This is going to be a weak of little or no cranial activity. Barry foresees a week of staying up until 1 a.m., watching Letterman and pondering why, in the name of Carson, Tom Snyder is still on the air. 
He'll sleep until just before noon every day, waking up in time to watch the Showcase Showdown on "The Price is Right." 
He'll make sandwiches for lunch and rent movies, spending afternoons with Rocky, Jimmy Stewart and Sandra Bullock. And he's always meant to watch that "Gone With the Wind" flick. 
If he's up for it, Barry might head into Baltimore to do some shopping in the Inner Harbor. He also might consider getting ahead on some of his work for school. 
"Right," he thinks, "and the Bulls might lose 70 games this year." 
Or maybe he'll head out to the country and look at all the dying leaves. By the time he returns to South Bend, it'll be 40 degrees and the trees will be bare. 
Barry stops planning his break. Right now, the only thing that is certain is that he'll board a winged Coke can in South Bend and transfer to a real plane in Chicago, touching down in Maryland by 4 p.m. His sister will pick him up at the airport. After that, nothing is definite. ''I'll have a Sinatra break," he says, ''I'll do it My Way." He'll worry about the details when the time comes. 
Right now he just wants to get on the plane and eat his complementary peanut. 
--------·----------~ 
page 16 

The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT Friday, October 18, 1996 
South Bend~s Finest... 

efforts of the Italian Eatery Observer 254-9533 
Marketing, Ad
-
Design, and Advertising departments. Contact Amanda Pontarelli for more information. 
McKinley Hwy. 

Graphic design by 
Amanda 

Pontarelli, Bryan 
Jefferson Blvd. Meyer, and Brant Gauthier. 
I 
~ 
I 
I I ' 
,Go Irish ... 

f 
...destroy 
Falcons! 

Visit cJur brar1d r1euJ Jocatio11 .. . 
Trivia • 7 ft TV Screens • Seating for Over 300 Extra Lorge Booths • Mouth-Watering Variety of Sandwiches and Entrees 
Macri's is now hiring: 
• 
Servers 

• 
Hostesses 

• 
Cooks 

• 
Busers 


Flexible scheduling for students 
..... 
Competitive wages-good tips! Located on the Transpo Line Macri's is a Great Place to Work! 
Stop in at Macri's NEW Location for an application today! 227 University Drive 277-7273 
......--~--------~ ~----------~---~~----~-------------------------~------­
Friday, October 18, 1996 
Bread Sticks 
with any pizza or p,izza-sub purchase 
After the game.. . After work.. . 

The Observer· SPORTS page 17 
• CollEGE FooTBALL 

Heisman fever picks up at midseason 
By RICHARD ROSEN­BLATT Associated Press Writer 
For those with a passing fancy, maybe Danny Wuerffel's your man. Or Peyton Manning. Or even Jake "The Snake" Plummer. 
Prefer the running game? There's always the Big Two from the Big 12 -Troy Davis and Byron Hanspard. And don't forget Northwestern's Darnell Autry. 
Looking for a novel approach? Try Mr. Pancake himself, left tackle Orlando Pace. 
Fling in a longshot or two, such as Brigham Young's Steve Sarkisian and Wyoming's Marcus Harris, and that's one hefty haul of Heisman Trophy contenders. 
It's only mid-October, and there's still six weeks left in the college football season, but Heisman hunting is always in season. 
Some players, like Wuerffel of Florida, Davis of Iowa State and Hanspard of Texas Tech have remarkable numbers. Others, like Plummer, Sarkisian, Autry and Pace, may not have the stats but certainly are show­stoppers. 
And then there's Manning, Tennessee's quarterback who has done everything right except throw four first­half interceptions in a nationally televised loss to Wuerffel's Gators on Sept. 21. 
"A guy like Weurffel would 
Large 

have to be the favorite, just based on the name and what he's done," BYU coach LaVell Edwards said. "But there are really some good players, like Hanspard and Davis. If they keep that pace, it would be tough to keep them out of it. It's really a wide-open race." 
So wide open that even a 6-foot-6, 330-pound offen­sive lineman has drawn considerable attention for the Dec. 14 award at New York's Downtown Athletic Club. 
"Right now, he's my leader," said Heisman voter Mark Blaudshun of The Boston Globe. "He's the most dominating offensive line­man I've seen in a decade. And he's the best 'player."' 
"I don't think Pace can win," Chris Fowler of ESPN countered. "As good a left tackle as he is, I don't think a left tackle should win the Heisman Trophy. He can't influence the outcome of a game nearly as much as a quarterback or running back." 
This is what makes the 
Heisman Trophy one of the 
most debated awards in 
sports. Does it really go, as 
advertised, to the nation's 
top player? Or does it simply 
end up in the hands of the 
player with the best num­
bers, on the best team and 
with the most TV exposure? 
A rundown of top candi­
dates: 
DANNY WUERFFEL, QB, 
FLORIDA 
Weurffel has been simply 
1-topping Pizza 
$599 
After all .. 
It's 
Two Po.st-Game Celebration Locations: Granger: 6615 N. Main Street 273-0003 Elkhart: 3·24 J Interchange Drive 266·1 l 29 

sensational. After setting an NCAA record for passing efficiency in '95 at 178.4, Wuerffel might be even bet­ter this year. He's 104-of­161 for 1,664 yards and 17 touchdowns, with a 181.3 rating. 
"Everything about Danny is impressive," Florida coach Steve Spurrier said. "Mainly, what people would vote for is who they think is the best player in the country. He's a dadgum good quarterback who is doing a super job of leading our team. He throws, runs and really plays the position very well." 
Adds CBS college analyst Terry Donahue: "It's a stroll in the park for him to throw three touchdown passes a game." 
The knock on Wuerffel is he's a product of Spurrier's system. Don't count that against him, says Spurrier, especially after his last two games. 
"Those two games have been two of his best ever," his coach says. "Not many quarterbacks can make those throws." 
BYRON HANSPARD, RB, TEXAS TECH 
For pure numbers, Texas Tech's Hanspard deserves high praise. He's merely averaging 217 yards per game with 181 carries for 1,302 yards and 10 TDs. He gains 7.2 yards every time he takes a handoff. 
On Saturday, Hanspard takes the Heisman stage when the Red Raiders play No. 5 Nebraska. 
Baylor coach Chuck Reedy says: "If Hanspard gets 200 yards this week they ought to just send him the Heisman." 
TROY DAVIS, RB, IOWA STATE 
Davis is set to go over 2,000 yards rushing for the second straight year. Although he does not play on a contender and gets little TV exposure, his eye-pop­ping numbers warrant at­tention. 
He's has 188 carries for 1,046 yards and 13 touch­downs. His best game was a 378-yard effort -third best in Division I history ­against Missouri. 
"You're looking at a guy whose numbers are incredi­ble in a very good league but not on a very good team," Donahue said. "But he's not just doing it once. He did it last year, too." 
ORLANDO PACE, OT, OHIO STATE 
The Buckeyes produce a weekly pancake count for Pace. He's up to 31 pancakes -the number of times he flattens an opponent -in five games. Of course, he can dominate only when the Buckeyes run or pass left. 
Notre Dame coach Lou 
Holtz says: "I think Orlando 
Pace is one of the best tack­
les in football today. I didn't 
say college football; I said 
football." 
PEYTON MANNING, QB, TENNESSEE 
Manning's most productive game could also cost him the Heisman. 

-
----~·-·· -~~------­
~----l 
page 18 The Observer· SPORTS Friday, October 18, 1996 
• NFL 

Harbaugh bruised, but will be 'fine by Sunday' 
By HANK LOWENKRON 
Associated Press Wrirer 
INDIANAPOLIS 
Some pain, some bruises and even a trip to the hospital doesn't faze Indianapolis quarterback Jim Harbaugh. He'll pay that as the price of producing victories for the Indianapolis Colts. 
Harbaugh. who has felt the pain in 10 NFL seasons. spent a night in the hospi­tal after his latest physical battering. He is ready for more as the Colts seek to protect their one-game lead in the AFC East. 

''I'll be fine by Sunday," said Harbaugh, the league's highest-rated quarterback last season after starting the year as a backup to Craig Erickson. "The pain doesn't feel nearly as bad when you win." 
Indianapolis (5-1) faces New England (3-3) on Sunday with Harbaugh leading the AFC quarterback ratings at 94.0, a mark topped only by the 101.9 of Green Bay's Brett Favre. 
"The quarterback rating isn't about one player, it's about offensive linemen doing their job, receivers catching the ball and running with it. The quarter­back is only the one that takes the snap and tries to make something happen," Harbaugh said. 
But, it's the quarterback who receives the punishing blows from big and agile defensive linemen seeking to add to their sack total. 
"I don't really worry about being hit. It's something that happens," said Harbaugh, who has been sacked 20 times for 120 yai·ds and has absorbed more than his share of knockdowns from opposing defenses after releasing the ball. 
"Jim's got some nice bruises," said quarterback Paul Justin, whose locker is next to Harbaugh. "lie looks like a leop­ard." 
The Observer accepts classiticds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. ro 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. 
Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cems per character per day, including all spaces. 
Classifieds 

HELP WANTED  Subletters needed for spacious 2  ALUM NEEDS GA's  FOR SALE 7 AF GAs  NEED 2 GAs for Rutgers  
NOTICES  HOSTESS, DELIVERY DRIVER  bedroom apt. near campus, for spring semester. Call Peter at 234­ for WASH, AF, PITT & RUTGERS 618-274-2990 M-F 8am-6pm  4-50 yard line together B/0 Mike @ 232-0550  Alyssa 271-9847  
AND PIUA MAKER  4779.  LAST CHANCE 10/18-10/19  
VFW624  PAY $5.10 AN HOUR  I NEED 4 AIR FORCE GA'S  ••••• NAVY GAME TIXS •••••  Still FOR SALE-AF stud. Tix $40  
Friday night dinners -4:30-8  CALL: JOHN @ BRUNO'S PillA 288-3320  FOR SALE  CALL STEVE AT ·o867  Selling 4 GA tixs.  Paul or MATT 283-0392/0397  
Dancing -9-1  N.D. Football tickets bought & sold.  
All members & guests welcome.  WANTED: CUTE GUYS to work the back door at BRIDGET'SIII  Gray 87 Cutlas Cierra loaded auto excellent condition. New parts 101  219-232-2378 a.m. 288-2726 p.m.  Call x1453 ask for Patrick  PERSONAL  
214 U.S. 33 N.-Next to Knight's  Also, possible position for bar­ K. Best Offer. 219-296-7546(night)  STUD TIX AF or All 4 sale.  
Inn.  tenders. Apply at Bridget's after  1-9397(day}.  STUDENT FOOTBALL TIX FOR  2438161  
8pm.  SALE -ALL GAMES!!!  FAX IT FAST!II  
SMC alumnae w/ extensive classi­ 1993 Honda Accord EX. One  call James X1658  NOTRE DAME GA'S WANTED  Sending & Receiving  
cal piano training has openings for  VOLUNTEER GIRLS  owner. 39,000 miles. Very clean,  ALL GAMES HOME  at  
intra. piano lessons, children 8 &  VOLLEYBALL COACH  rear spoiler, CD , loaded. Asking  NEED ONE RUTGERS TICKET !I  AND AWAY  THE COPY SHOP  
up. call Meaghen@ 271-7933  Starting immediately  $14,500. 256-7152.  Call Elena x2900  232-0058  LaFortune Student Center  
5th-6th grade/Our Lady of  24 HAS.  Our Fax# (219) 631-FAX1  
THAT PRETTY PLACE, Bed and  Hungary School, South Bend  AIR FORCE STUDENT TICKET  WE NEED AIR FORCE TIX-STU­ BUY -SELL -TRADE  FAX IT FAST!!!  
Breakfast Inn has space available  Call Sue Mason 289-3272  must sell! !I  DENT OR GA-CALL MEG HAN  
for football wknds. 5 Rooms with  (daytime), 234-3750 (evenings).  call wendy at 243 9430  @232-7839.  TICKET-MART, INC.  LONDON PROGRAM  
private baths, $70 -$90,  APPLICATIONS  
Middlebury, 30 miles from campus.  INTERNS WANTED!!!  1985 Subaru GL 4-door, manual  FOR SALE AIRFORCE PITT  WANTED: NOTRE DAME GA'S  
Toll Road, Exit #107, 1-800-418-9487  MIS I BUSINESS I COMP SCI/ MARKETING I CAP I ART MAJORs  transmission, AC, cassette with AM-FM radio, $1200. Call x18120.  AND RUTGERS GAs FOR SALE 272-7233...........  ANY/ALL GAMES. PLEASE CALL 232-0061.  are dtJe no later than  
5:00PM  
FREE T-SH\RT  Shamrock Network Design is look­ NEED 1 maybe 2 AF ticket GA for  $$$$$$  Friday, Oct. 18  
+ $1000  ing for INTERNS interested in  COMPUTER, IBM PS/1, 486SX2  sisters  I NEED GA OR FACULTY TIXS  
Credit Card fundraisers for fraterni­ learning more about Internet  50 MHZ, 8 MB RAM, 253 MB  call Bill 4-3906  ALL HOME GAMES.  Spring Break Bahamas Party  
ties, sororities & groups. Any cam­ Marketing. SND is owned & run by  HARD DISK, 3.5" DISK DRIVE, 14"  272-6551  Cruise! 6 Days $279! Includes All  
pus organization can raise up to  NO Alumni & provides computer &  COLOR MONITOR, WINDOWS  '95 grad needs 2-6 Air Force GA's  Meats, Free Parties, Taxes! Great  
$1000 by earning a whopping  marketing services for several large  FOR WORK GROUPS, PANASON­ for parents. Call Joe@ 1-800-736­ n. d. tickets for sale  Beaches & Nightlife! Prices  
$5.00NISA application.  corporations.  \C KX-P 1124  3399 x6169 and leave message. I'll  271 1635  Increase Soon -Save $50! spring­ 
Call 1-800-932-0528 ext.65  Call: Paul or Tucker at 234-2211  24 PIN DOT MATRIX PRINTER.  return call asap.  breaktravel.com 1-800-678-6386  
Qualifies callers receive  Email: Paul@snd.com  $500. 273-0959  $NEED WASH, & AF T\X  
FREET-SHIRT  NEEDED: 4 AIR FORCE GA's  708-848-9432 5-7 PM EDT M-F  Cancun & Jamaica Spring Break  
HUGE NO FAN DESPERATE FOR  COMPUTER, GATEWAY 486DX2  Call Brian @ 4-1737  708-847-7614 7-9 PM EDT M-F  Specials! 7 Nights Air & Hotel From  
Spring Break Bahamas Party  5 GAs FOR RUTGERS. CALL PAT  66MHZ, 16MB RAM, 1.2GB  South Bend $419! Increase Soon •  
Cruise! 6 Days $2791 Includes All  (813)360-2243.  TOTAL HARD DRIVE CAPACITY,  NEEDED: 2 non-stud GAs for Air  NEED 2-4 GA TIX  Save $50! Save $150 On Food,  
Meals, Free Parties. Taxes! Great  3.5" DISK DRIVE, 5.25" DISK  Force. FRANK 4-3323.  ALL HOME GAMES.  Drinks! 111% Lowest Price  
Beaches & Nightlife! Prices  DRIVE, 4X CD ROM DRIVE, 28.8  CALL 276-2010/288-2877 AFT 5  Guarantee\ spr"mgbreaktravel.com  
Increase Soon-Save $501 spring­ Hundereds of Students Are Earning  MODEM, 15" COLOR MONITOR,  Needed: 6 Air Force GA'~. Call Eric  1-800-678-6386  
breaktravel.com 1-800-678-6386  Free Spring Break Trips & Money!  FULL TOWER CASE, 2MB SVGA  at 271 -9069  GA Football Tix -Buy/Sell  
Sell 8 Trips & Go Free! Bahamas  CARD, WINDOWS 95. $1,000.  67 4-7645 -No student or student  Free kitten and/or cat. Call 243­ 
Cruise $279, Cancun & Jamaica  273-0959  AIR FORCE STUD. TICKET W/ ID  conv.  1382.  
Cancun & Jamaica Spring Break  $399, Panama City/Daytona $119!  must sell\\  
Specials! 7 Nights Air & Hotel From  www.springbreaktravel.com  Mountain Bike for sale. Paramount,  call wendy at 243 9430  WANTED: CUTE GUYS to work the  
South Bend $4191 Prices Increase  1-800-678-6386  with Shimano components and  NEED WASHINGTON TICKETS­ back door at Bridget's! Also possi­ 
Soon-Save $50! Save $150 on  many extras. $300 obo. 273-8112  @#%$  HAVE AF, PITT, RUTGERS TICK­ ble positions for bartenders. Apply  
Food, Drinks! 111% Lowest Price  Babysitter needed during Bible  NEED 4 AF GA BADLY 288-9102  ETS TO TRADE. CALL WORK  at Bridget's after 8pm.  
Guarantee\ springbreaktravel.com  Study at Sunnyside Church: 115 S.  LAWRENCE A COLLECTABLES  %$%$  601-893-5352 OR HOME 901-755­ 
1-800-678-6386  Frances St, S.Bend. The 4th  Store and Museum  4273  
Thursday of every month, from  TIX for every home game.  STOMPER BOB  
Spring Break Panama City!  8:30-11 :30a.m. $5/hr; transportation  Decorate your room, den, office  Call (301) 445-3955  NEED BC & WASH TIX  SKALCOHOLICS  
Boardwalk Beach Resort! Best  provided. Call Christine at 287­ Notre Dame items -jerseys, pro­ 312-951-5008  FULTON'S POINT  
Hotel, Location, Price! 7 Nights  4296.  grams, pins, etc.  $45  
$129! Daytona-Best Location $139!  Sports and movie celebrities' auto­ WILL PAY $45 FOR  NEED 2 RUTGERS TIX  all at Jazzmen's  
Cocoa Beach Hilton $1691 spring­breaktravel.com 1·800-678-6386  FOR RENT  graphs. Photos matted & framed. Early 1900's equipment -bats,  1 AIR FORCE GA Call Brian x1961  Call Pat X3015  Friday -9:30 pm  
gloves, hockey sticks, game-used  $45  Need 2 Air Force GAs for parents  
Home Health Care Nurse Available  WALK TO CAMPUS  shoes, etc.  call Brian at 634-0559 ( 4-0559)  Chestnut House B&B,  
Days or Evenings. Call 236-9522.  2·3-4-5 BEDROOM HOMES  Downtown Mishawaka  St. Joseph, MI.  

 232·2595  109 LWE  I NEED 2 RUTGERS GAs!!!!  Elegantly decorated home over­ 
ILOST & FOUND I  BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY  257-0039 BUY AND SELL  NEED BCTIX! As many as possible  Please call X3886.  looking Lake Michigan and only 40 mins. from NO.  
Private Homes for Football,  CALL ANYTIME: 4-1382  AF Stu-tix 4 sale  Luxuriate in double whirlpools, pri­ 
LOST: Blue Computer Diskette  JPW, Graduation, etc.  90 VW JETTA BLACK 2DR SNRF  or (617) 828-1089  x-2737  vate baths, full breakfasts & hers  
labelled "Letter Perfect 1" on Wed  219-291-7153  5SPD MINT $6500 OBO 277-3569  d'oeuvres served fireside.  
Oct 2, Hesburgh cluster. If found,  FOR THE LOVE OF GOD !II I need  (616) 983-7413.  
please call Jeanne @287-5467.  BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY.  REDUCED!!! -92 GEO Tracker  2 Air Force GA's for my parents!  
private homes for football, JPW,  $7,800 olb/o -only 54K, A/C  4 Sale: Pair of Sid tixs for last 3  Call Tony anytime x0915  BITTER PERSONS UNITE! Bitter  
FOUND:  graduation, etc. 219-291-7153  red w/convertible top. Pascal  games. Will trade any into GAs.  Persons of NO (BPND)  
- LARGE AMBER CLIP EARRING. CALL DOROTHY 272·2136.  687-1253 (w) or 273-5848 (h)  x2557 or x3950  FOR SALE: 2 AIR FORCE GA'S. CHRIS (201)763-9346.  
4-bdrm. home N. of campus in  MAC Centris 610, w/17"monitor,  Need 3 AF GA's  -HOCKEY PLAYERS LOOK·  
HELP\\\  Roseland. Walk to ND/SMC.  laser printer, 14.4 modem, Excel,  Call x1195  Desperate for RUTGERS Tix. Call  
I lost my sunglasses between  Ideal for faculty, staff or student.  Word, Games, GMAT. $1350, Call  ROB @634-0552.  Any off-campus person  
DeBart and F\anner Monday. They  Available now.  Joe K. (NO '95) @ (312)649-1365.  For Sale: 1 Rutgers GA Call 273­ interested in playing off-campus  
were passed down through 4 gen­ 287-9342.  Will deliver.  9829  lnterhall HOCKEY should call:  
erations and have great sentimental  NEED 2 GAs-ANY HOME GAME.  Chuck@ 243-9315 or  
value. Jim 4·1474  HOUSING AVAILABLE NOW & FOR '97-98 SCHOOL YR.  TICKETS  I NEED RUTGERS GA'S  NEED AT LEAST 10 DAYS NOTICE. CALL COLLECT: PEG  Kevin and Rix @ 273-5928  
2-10 STUDENTS. CLOSE TO  CALL KATIE 243-9038  McDERMOTT 410/965-7732  -HOCKEY PLAYERS LOOK­ 
WANTED  CAMPUS. DOMUS PROPERTIES -KRAMER  NOTRE DAME GA'S WANTED ALL GAMES HOME  sold sr stud tix Air For  AFTER 4pm.  
674-2571.  AND AWAY  2775931  Beer, Money, and Lavish Praise in  Happy Birthday CHRIS REYES!! I  
Earn MONEY and FREE TRIPS\\  232-0058  exchange for 3 tix to Rutgers. 508­ Party like Slimy would!  
Absolute Best SPRING BREAK  FURNISHEDII. 1 BEDROOM APT,  24 HAS.  I NEED AIR FORCE TIX  339-7497  I'll see ya rn Florida!  
Packages available\\  VERY CLEAN, ALL UTILITIES  BUY -SELL -TRADE  CALL FRED X3662  Love, AK  
INDIVIDUALS. student ORGANIZA·  INCLUDED, FREE CABLE, 3  NEED BC TIX  
TIONS, or small GROUPS wanted!\  MILES FROM CAMPUS, PRIVATE  TICKET-MART, INC.  One Air Force student ticket for  WILL BUY !TRADE  HAPPY 19th DEVON B.  
Call INTER-CAMPUS PROGRAMS  ENTRANCE, CALL AFTER 5PM.  sale! Call X2088 if interested.  x2912  love, your Lewis chicks  
at  232-0355  WANTED: NOTRE DAME GA'S  
1-800-327-6013  ANY/ALL GAMES. PLEASE CALL  AF GA's for sale  Wanted! One Air Force GA  ATTENTION LOSER YANKEE  
or http://www.icpt.com  232-0061.  call 254-9212  (Student Convert or Regular).  FANS  
ROOMS IN PRIVATE HOME FOR  Mike 634-4454  YOU SUCK  
Need experienced gardener's  ND-SMC EVENTS.  BUYING G.A.'S FOOTBALL  Need 2 or 4 GAs for AirForce  YOUR TEAM SUCKS  
helper.  IDEAL FOR FOOTBALL WEEK­ 312.404.4903  NO '90 Call 1-800-321-4110  Help I NO mom wants to see her  YOU WILL BE BEATEN LIKE AN  
Plant bulbs, etc.  ENDS.  x72580Tom  daughter march in the band. Need  UGLY STEPCHILD BY THE  
6-8 hrs. @ $8.  VERY CLOSE TO CAMPUS.  FOR SALE 2 GA's ALL HOME  1 AF GA Call Theresa x4-4351  WORLD CHAMPION ATLANTA  
Pat 273-0356.  243-0658.  GAMES 235-3394  Father in town for the weekend,  BRAVES  
need 2 -5 Air Force GA's.  Need 3-5 GA Ail Force tix  GH  
YOUR LOVING CARE, 3 LOVING  FOUR SISTERS INN bed & bkfst  MY DAD NEEDS  Call Adrian at 810-347-4529  for family  
KIDS, MY HOME,  home. Rms avail for football week­ ANAFGA!  to discuss $$$.  call Frank at 232-0472  Happy Birthday Matti  
M.W AFTERNOONS, GOOD$.  ends, JPW & grad. 2 miles from  PLEASE CALL DAVE  -From your 2nd favorite  
277-9079  campus. 219.287.6797  243-9220  AF Stu tix for sale call X-1158  Sale: stud. AF tix. 271-9549.  Kentucky girl  



VISIT OUR PRO SHOP IN THE ROCKNE MEMORIAL 
SATELLITE SHOP IN THE JOYCE CENTER OPEN HOME FOOTBALL FRI'S & SAT'S 
Ashworth -Nike -Gear -Cutter & Buck -Izod 


YOU could win an authentic STIR backpack full of ~ goodies! 


Enter yourself to win @ Orbit 4614 Western Ave. South Bend, IN 
Pick up a copy of STIR'S self-titled release featuring the first single "Looking For" and hear it on WRBR 
R_ock and Roll in Style. 
come a 3-1 deficit, and the first Lopez doubled and Jones ever to do it in the NLCS. They homered. also added to their legacy of NOTES: This was the playoff comebacks -they won Cardinals' worst shutout loss the last two games of the 1991 since a 19-0 defeat on Aug. 3, NLCS to beat Pittsburgh, then 1961 against Pittsburgh.... came back the next year to Blauser left the game as a pre­defeat the Pirates in Game 7 caution after being hit in the when Cabrera's two-out, two­leg by a pitch. run single capped a three-run rally in the bottom of the ninth inning. 
The .Braves' 14-0 victory in 
Recycle

Game 5 had matched the New York Yankees' 18-4 victory over the New York Giants in the 
the 

1936 World Series for the largest margin of victory in a postseason game. 
Observer

The Braves began quickly against game 3 winner 
: <tCJ&A<!3cA9!l'e? : 
• IRISH IMPORT SHOP • 
IIi Edison Plaza • 
• 1643 Edison Road 
Next to Jamison Inn • • 243-1400 • 
• I 0 % off any purchase a • with this ad • 

Friday, October 18, 1996 The Observer • SPORTS page 19 
•MlB 

Braves destroy Cardinals, await Bronx Bombers 
By BEN WALKER time by outscoring St. Louis 32-Ozzie Smith's career. the first inning on their way to Osborne, given an extra day to Associated Press Writer 1 in three straight games. The future Hall of Farner, a 14-0 rout behind John pitch in the seventh game. "They made my job real easy who has announced his retire­Smoltz, sending the best-of~7 Grissom singled to center on ATLANTA tonight," Glavine said. ment, fouled out as a pinch-hit­series back to Atlanta. the first pitch. Mark Lemke This wasn't a comeback, this After Atlanta good-luck ter in the sixth inning. The 41-In what could have been the doubled on the next pitch and was a wipeout. charm Francisco Cabrera year-old shortstop waved his final game in the history of McGriff got an RBI on a mis­The Atlanta Braves threw out a first ball-and helmet to a standing ovation, Atlanta-Fulton County Stadium, played grounder. 
unleashed all their fury in the before the fans broke into and drew hugs from his team­Gteg Maddux pitched the After Lopez, who hit .542 in biggest blowout in postseason . singing "New York, New York" mates in the dugout, Braves to a 3-1 win Wednesday the series, walked on a full history, trouncing the St. Louis -Glavine shut out St. Louis on Though Marquis Grissom be­night. And then Glavine, MVP of count, Jermaine Dye and fellow Cardinals 15-0 in Game 7 of the three hits for seven innings. He gan the rout by singling on the 1995 World Series, finished rookie Jones hit RBI singles. NL championship series got support from two-homers Donovan Osborne's first pitch, off the Cardinals to even his Jeff Blauser was hit by a pitch Thursday night to complete a by NLCS MVP Javy Lopez, Fred the Braves' playoff comeback career postseason record at 7-7 that loaded the bases and startling rally from a 3-1 McGriff and Andruw Jones­clearly started before then. in 16 starts. Glavine, wbo led all pitchers deficit. at 19, Jones surpassed Mickey It may have begun back at "You always worry, but with a .289 ·batting average this Pitcher Tom Glavine hit a Mantle as the youngest player Busch Stadium when Dennis there's an awful lot of talent on season, sliced a fly ball to left bases-loaded triple that capped to connect in a postseason Eckersley pumped his fist this team," Braves manager field. Ron Gant came up inches a six-run first inning, and game. forcefully in the air after a Bobby Cox said. short on a head-long dive, and 52,067 crazed fans spent the "The loss stings a lot because Game 4 win that gave St. Louis The Cardinals had been the briefly stayed on the ground as rest of the evening partying as of the type of game it was," a 3-1 lead. The prompted the only team to twice blow a 3-1 he watched the ball and the 
the Braves earned a chance to Cardinals manager Tony La Cardinals to put 20 cases of lead, having done it in the 1968 Cardinals' season roll away. defend their World Series title. Russa said. "A lot of guys are champagne on ice in anticipa­and 1985 World Series. They Andy Benes then relieved 
Game 1 will be Saturday bothered by it." tion of a clincher that never had never lost an NL playoff se­Osborne and was tagged in the night in New York against the The painful loss, making the came, and seemed to anger ries, going 4-0 until running fourth for an RBI single by Yankees. The Braves have Cardinals the only club to blow Atlanta. into Atlanta. McGriff and Lopez's third reached four of the last five a 3-1 edge three times in the The Braves came out the next The Braves became the homer of the postseason. 
World Series, making it this postseason, meant the end of night and scored five runs in eighth team out of 48 to over­McGriff tripled in the sixth, 
page 20 The Observer· SPORTS Friday, October 18, 1996 
• SAINT MARY'S VOLLEYBAll 

Battered Belles look to generate momentum 
Historically fall breaks not beneficial 
By KELLY PROSSER Sports Writer 
A year ago, fall break was the beginning of the end for the Saint Mary's College volleyball team. After spending a week away from school and volley­ball, the Belles were not able to win another match in the 1995 season. 
angulars but also managed to have some during their break too. Unfortunately the fall break trips have been discon­tinued and each year the team struggles to remain focused through the end of the season. 
While the week off from in­tense practice may provide a moment's rest to a team which is plagued by sore joints and aching backs, the problems it creates are great. 
"We get out of synch," said junior defensive specialist Kelly Meyer. "We are away from our teammates, away from the gym, we lose our conditioning, and its hard to maintain focus and intensity, knowing that we probably won't have any post season play." · 
Junior middle blocker Betsy Connolly expressed similar problems with taking a week off. 
"We are physically affected, and mentally we relax," she said. "You have to mentally prepare yourself to come back and take up where you left off, and that's hard to do." 
On Friday the Belles take on 
Glimmer Man R (In DTSJ 
2:30 5:15 7:30 9:40 
Sleepers R (In DTSJ 
12:30 3:45 7:00 10:10 
Mighty Ducks PG 
1:30 4:15 6:45 9:15 
That Thing You Do PG 
2:00 4:45 7:15 9:50 
Ghost and the Darkness R 
2:30 5:00 7:30 10:00 

Heidelberg College and then travel to Bluffton College to take on their regionally ranked host and Defiance College. 
In 1995 Saint Mary's defeated Heidelberg relatively easily early in the season, but Schroeder-Biek knows that the team is traditionally a strong serving team, and that this year they are under the guidance of a new head coach. 
The Belles have already en­countered Defiance College once this season, and came away with a win. Although Saint Mary's won the match in three games, Schroeder-Biek stressed the defensive strength of Defiance. 
"They're not very strong offensively, but they are so

If you see sports happening, call the Observer at 1-4543. 
Within walking distance ofND Campus! No appointment ever needed! 
277-1166 
BolD G 
present coupon Expires 11/1/96 
one per customer 


During Jordan's Annual October Clearance Event. 
thing." 
Saint Mary's, who has one of its best offenses in recent mem­ory, will have to put on a stellar performance in order to repeat their earlier victory. 
Perhaps the biggest match of the weekend will be against Bluffton College, a team that Saint Mary's has never faced before. 
Ranked second in the region, Bluffton was victorious over nationally ranked Wittenberg University. WU swept Saint Mary's earlier this season. 
However, Bluffton lost to Ohio Northern University who also beat Saint Mary's, but only af-. ter five grueling games. 
A win against Bluffton would hopefully give the Belles the boost of momentum they need to carry them over fall break and into a successful end of the season. 
Schroeder-Biek expressed that the key to success this weekend will be Saint Mary's ability to stay focused and not look past the games to vacation plans ahead. 
Lack of focus has been a problem for Saint Mary's in recent matches and contributed to their loss at the University of Chicago on Tuesday. 
Both Meyer and Connolly felt that by getting excited and staying focused they will create the sirong teamwork they need to be victorious this weekend. 
How the young Saint Mary's squad deals with a week away from the court remains to be seen. 
TREK·CANNONDALE·ROLLERBLADE 
STOREWIDE SALE 
Mon-Fri 1 0:00 -7:00 Saturday 1 0:00 -5:00 
~-~~~~~~(._._._....._..mmmm=m-. 

• 
Urban Outfitters 

• 
Vintage Levi's 

• 
Big Sweaters 

• 
Hip Huggers 

• 
Unique Cocktail Dresses 


• Silver Rings -Hemp Jewelry We Buy 
Now Open
HOURS: 
Sundays Sat: 10-6 
Used 
M-F: 10-7
10%0 
12-4 p.m.
with student ID
Levi's 
mE 
Just 2.5 mi North of IN state line 
1912 S. 11th, Niles Belle Plaza
smE 
687-9123
CO., INC. 
·-Iii C,~;-> ViSA 

New '96  854GTAS  Turquoise  
New '96  854 GTAS  Emer. Green  
New '96  855A  Champagne  
New '96  854 GTAS  Champagne  
New '96  964  Silver  
New '96  854 GTAS  Red  
New '97  854 GTA  Reg. R  
New '97  854A  White  
New '97  854 GLT  P. Silver  
New '97  964  White  
New '97  854 R  Black  

$42222 MO.• 
#3021 
$43295MO.•• 
#3077 
$3~MO.• 
#3082 
$432nMO.·· 
#3088 
$48~MO.••• 
#3092 
$432nMO.·· 
#3095 
$34~MO."* 
#503 $331 04MO."* #508 $39895 MO."** #510 $43471 MO."••• #511 $54594 MO.""* #513 


VOLVO 
Minutes from UP Malt comer of Jefferson and Cedar, Mishawaka 
ASK FOR OUR SPECIAl NOTRE DAME 
FACUlTY AND STUDENT RATE! Ask for Specialist Kent Achterberg 259-1981 • 674-6112 ext. 334 
*36 mo. lease wl $1 ,roo tbNn. "36 mo. lease wl $2,CXX> da.Nn. ""36 mo. lease vi$2,!ro da.Nn. "'39 mo. lease w1 $1,!roda.Nn. ""39 mo.leasew/$2,CXX> cbvn ""'24mo. lease wl$2,!rod:1Nn. M'36 mo. lease Yi$3,CXX> tbNn. JIM 'l8hi:Es 12,CXXl mies peryaarpl.Js irs!, ~. tax. ti1le, IK:ense El(<iJdej, Prior otlln excll.ded. See deaer tld!Pf brde1ais. 
-----------------, 
Friday, October 18, 1996 

The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 21 
I 

• I 
I 





VARSITY SHOP 


"Specializing in Authentic Notre Dame Sportswear" 
I 

r 
l 


Joyce Center: ''On the Concourse'' (Enter Gate 1 or 2) 
--l 

I

Fieldhouse (Enter Gate 3) 
1 

Tent: Located outside Gate 10 I 
Open 10:00 a.m. on Friday Open 8:00 a.m. on Saturday Open 10:00 a.m. on Sunday (Joyce Center only) 
...-------­
~--~------------­

page 22 The Observer· SPORTS Friday, October 18, 1996 
Studs defeat 'Roos for first victory of season 
Keough built substantial drives, three quarters, but their tough back Mike Broussard to receiv­
only to have them stalled by Planner 6 Keenan 6 defensive play kept them in the er Dave Mammola to knot the
'Cocks, 

costly penalties. contest. score at 6-6. The Flanner 
Knights tie in barn burner 
By JOHN CRISHAM and DREW BRENNAN Sports Wri1ers 
This matchup between the Keough Kangaroos and the Stanford Studs looked to be a hard-fought battle from the start. The Kangaroos entered the game with a 1-2 record, and were looking for another win in their final reg­ular season con­test. 
The Studs likewise were desperately looking for a victory. This however would be their first 14-6. 
The game was a combination of two tough running games and two tougher defenses who collided for hard game on the muddy field. 
Both squads stopped each other consistently, but twice 
Finally, Keough put together two nice plays -a long pass from quarterback Brian Perez to Jason Thompson for a first down; then on the ensuing play Perez again threw deep, this time connecting with Dave Voitier for the score. The con­version failed and Keough led 6-0. 
The Studs, however, refused to die. 
Stanford signal caller Mark 
Rule accounted for two 
scores, one a long 
touchdown pass, 
l~ a~d the eventual 
~ wmner, a two 
yard keeper to win 
the game for the 
Studs. The 
Kangaroos were still 
positive after the 
game. 
" The Keough Kangaroos will be in effect(come the play­offs). We have a little something in our pouches for when the tournament rolls around, " says special teams artist Dan Strobel, who once again sparkled with excellent punt coverage. 

The Observer/Jed Donahue Sarin's quarterback, along with the rest of his offensive colleagues, have surprised a lot of interhall football observers this season, and hope to continue to do so into the playoffs. 


-
Fix Your Car Cheap 
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED Cash Back (up to $1000) 
$100 Cas~~~bate STUDENTID 
Flanner and Keenan battled to a tie Wednesday night in a battle of running and defenses. Both teams seemed to have trouble moving the ball early in the contest, but eventually 'Cock tailback Drew Klausterman broke free for a couple of good gainers. 
The Knights were definitely having trouble getting their offense on track in the first 

Finally, in the fourth quarter, Klausterman broke free and scored from 35 yards out. The conversion failed, but the 'Cocks seemed in good shape with the little time remaining in the contest. 
As soon as Keenan got the ball back they proceeded to go for the big play. 
The connected on a 65 yard touchdown pass from quarter-defense denied the conversion attempt, and the game ended in a tie. 
The Keenan players seemed to feel confident after the game, however. 
"We pulled it together there at the end, but once we start playing more like a team, we feel we will be a much better team," observed Mike Homanchek. 

An unidentified Keough receiver extends himself to make the diving catch. The Kangaroos lost their final regular season game to the Studs of Stanford Wednesday night, 14-6. 
Ha"e a jolly Fall Break! 

The Perfect Sweetest Day Gift. 
Special Financing for Notre Dame Students. No payments. No interest. 
Zelma Lee Carrico Manager 

Diamonds -Precious Gems -Remounting Repairs-Fine Custom Made Jewelry 
U.S. 31 North Village Mall, South Bend, IN 46637 
219•277•1515 

Friday, October 18, 1996 
Soccer 
continued from page 28 
losing tri-captain and defensive leader Brian Engesser to a sea­son-ending injury. 
They could not have possibly seen the Irish dominate nation­al power and now No. 3 St. John's in overtime. The 2-2 final, which the Red Storm achieved by virtue of a bad bounce with less than ten sec­onds remaining in the extra session, was all that they chose to consider. 
Notre Dame begins a three­game East Coast trip that will take them through Rutgers, Villanova, and Georgetown in the next six days. 
The Irish might as well be wearing big bullseyes over 
their jerseys, as each of the Big East squads take aim at the first place team in their confer­ence. 
No. 6 Rutgers will get the first shot at the Blue and Gold tonight when they host Notre Dame in Piscataway, N.J.. Rutgers has been very impres­sive in Big East play thus far, despite a tough loss to Seton Hall earlier this month. 
Last year, the Scarlet Knights came to South Bend and beat the Irish 5-2. Notre Dame will be looking to return that favor and possibly vault themselves into a top ten ranking. 
Tonight, the only Big East team without a conference loss travels to New Jersey to prove that they belong among the na­tion's elite. 
Let's just hope the critics are watching. 

The Observer • SPORTS 

Stuck here over fall break? Coming back early? 
Take a night off from the norm to groove to live BIG BAND & LOUNGE music. Grab a date, throw on your 
grandma's prom dress or your · grandpa's ruffled tux and... 
Come Chill at the WSND 
BIC ~~~~ob~2~NCE 
7:00-11:00 p.m. Joyce Center (Gate 1) Monogram Room Concourse University of Notre Dame Campus Cost: $5.00 per student, $8.00 per student couple FREE REFRESHMENTS!!! 
EARN 

• SAINT MARY'S SOCCER 
Pokorny, Belles top Bethel 
By KELLY COUGHLIN Sports Writer 
Stepping onto the field for the last game in your career as a Saint Mary's soccer player, you hope to leave a lasting impres­sion. Senior Jolie Pokorny did just this. 
Lighting the fire under the Belles, Pokorny initiated threat­ening attacks against Bethel College in Wednesday night's match-up. Pokorny went on to contribute one of the five goals the Belles accumulated in their 5-0 victory over Bethel College. 
Any recent lack of offense for the Belles no longer served as a problem, as the Belles dominat­ed their opponent throughout the entire ninety minutes of play. With only twenty minutes gone in the first half, junior for­ward Debi Diemer broke from Bethel's defenders, facing the opposing goalie in a one on one situation. Drawing Bethel's 
WHILE YOU LEARN 
Without losing valuable study and social time! 

Varsity Clubs of America, South Bend Chapter, offers Notre Dame students a quick and easy way to earn extra cash. 
If you think your parents or a family friend may be interested in exploring the benefits of vacation ownership at Michiana's deluxe all-suite hotel, you may be eligible to 
earn $500! 

The next time you have visitors, stop by VCA at the corner of Main and Edison in Mishawaka to see what we have to offer. 
For more information, contact Dennis Morrissey, Notre Dame Class of '93, at Varsity Clubs of America, 277-0500. 
goalie out, Diemer tapped the ball in for an easy first goal. 
The scoring didn't stop there. No more than seven minutes later, freshman Katy Barger dribbled through two defend­ers, placing the ball in the upper left corner of the net for the Belles second and last goal before the end of the half. 
Saint Mary's didn't waste any time coming into the second half, as Diemer and Barger challenged Bethel's defense once again. Instant replay, placed Diemer in another one on one situation with in ten minutes of the second half. Diemer connected on the goal, assisted by freshman Emily Moriarty. Diemer's goal would set the pace for the Belles offense in the continuing min­utes, encouraging fellow team­mate Barger. As the Belles midfielders worked the ball around the eighteen, sopho­more Monica Cernanec found 
$25.00 Special* 
2 California 36 Tanning Bed Sessions 
+ 

2 Dual Reflector Non-
Facial Bed Sessions packages may be upgraded for 
+ $2.00 per session. 2 VHO Euro Capsule You may prepay 10 upgrades Sessions for $15, however, these 
upgrades expire at the time *one offer per person please your unlimited package expires. 
Fun Tan Inc. Fun Tan L.L.C. University Commons 526 W. McKinley Ave. (219) 272-7653 (219) 256 -9656 
Barger unattended. Barger stepped back for the shot well beyond the eighteen and fin­ished off the play, marking her second goal. 
A Saint Mary's goalie change, allowed the Belles regular keeper, Joanne Wagner, to con­tribute offensively for the Belles. Energized and deter­mined, Wagner caught Bethel's defense asleep. Sparking an offensive attack, Wagner raced through defenders, sizing up for the goal. Wagner's attempt fell just shy, but Pokorny fol­lowed through to connect on the goal in the final minutes of the game, as well as the final minutes in her career. 
Offense proved to be the missing link in recent games, but proved to be the winning ingredient in the Belles victory over Bethel College. Saint Mary's, now 4-10-1, will face off against the College of Wooster this Sunday, away. 
'93 • '94 • '95 • '96 
Voted Area's Best Tanning Center 
'96 for $59 
Unlimited Tanning until December 31, 1996 for $96.00 
Unlimited tanning bed 

-
l' 
page 24 
Hockey 
continued from page 28 
Most importantly, he has been a leader throughout his career. Now, Poulin returns to Notre Dame as a coach, and his history suggests that he will continue his success. 
"Our goal this year is simply to be better than we were last year," stated Poulin. "I don't have any specific goals in terms of wins and losses, but I defi­nitely want for us to make the playoffs. But basically, we just want to get better each day. And so far, that's been true. We're a much better hockey team today than we were at the beginning of the season." 
Poulin identified several areas where the team needs to excel if they are to experience success this season. 
"We definitely need to have strong special teams," he said. "We need to score on our power plays, and we need to kill off penalties." 
Poulin also stressed the need to play tight, defense. "The goal-scoring will take care of it­self," he observed. 
The freshman players that matriculated at Notre Dame this year represent a large step towards accomplishing the lofty goals stated earlier by Poulin. They will definitely add signifi­cantly to the team's talent. 
"They each bring different el­ements to the team," Poulin ex­plained. "Joe Dusbabek (right wing) brings young leadership to us. Ben Simon (center) and Troy Bagne (right wing) im­mediately add a lot of speed to the front line. Nate Borega (defense) is a physical presence on the ice. Sean Molina (defense) and Tyson Fraser (defense) bring a solid, all­around game to the team." 
These six young men will play an integral role in the team's success this year. Each played copious amounts of time in the first game last Friday against Western Ontario, and each will see a lot of ice time this season. 
The young talent comes just in time as the Fighting Irish lost several key players to gradua­tion in the off-season. Jamie Ling, who lead the team in scoring last year with 12 goals 

-' 
and 19 assists, is gone. So is defenseman Gary Gruber (33 games, 8 goals, 9 assists) and a trio of forwards who each ap­peared in 32 or more games a year ago -Jamie Morshead (8 G, 6 A), team captain Brett Bruininks (9 G, 4 A), and Jay Matushak (4 G, 5 A). Goaltender Wade Salzman was also lost to graduation after ap­pearing in 14 games and lead­ing the Irish with an 87% save percentage. 
But the Irish return many quality players, including six of the top seven scorers from last season. The 1996-97 Irish will be captained by a pair of cen­ters -senior Terry Lorenz and junior Steve Noble. Lorenz, who is noted for his size, strength, and all-around play, is one of the team's top per­formers in special teams situa­tions. 
Noble, who also captained the team as a sophomore, promises to be one of the most inspira­tional players this year. He sat out last week's game with a sore shoulder but had a full week of practice. Noble said that, this season, he was focus­ing on increasing his offensive output and playing hard in both ends of the rink. He also un­derstands his role as a captain. 
"I also have to show leader­ship and make sure the guys are fired up for every game." Noble stressed consistency as one of the key factors for suc­cess this season. 
"We have to play at a high level throughout the entire game," he remarked. 
The Irish forward line is both deep and strong. Senior Tim Harberts (8 G. 17 A) will at­tempt to recapture the form of his sophomore season, when he led the Irish with 21 goals and 13 assists. Sophomore Brian Urick returns to his right wing position after tallying 12 goals and 15 assists last season. Aniket Dhadphale led the Irish in goal-scoring last with 13 markers. 
This season he desires to im­prove his defense and continue to score goals. 
"We have a lot of depth on offense, so teams will have trouble matching up with us. If the four lines play like they can, we will have a very impressive offensive unit," observed 
Think of us as your school bus. 
Frequent service, all day from campus gets you on schedule. And when it's time to hit the again, we'll pick you up at the airport and bring you back to school. No hassels, no problems. For Information and schedule consult your travel agent or call: 
800-833-5555 
http://www.busville.com/irish.htm 
United Limo to the Chicago Airports 
Leave Notre Dame Arrive Midway Arrive O'Hare Main Gate {via Tri State Coach­Terminals 1 2 & 3 transfer in Portage) {International termi­nal15 minutes later) 3:00AM 6:10AM 5:55AM 5:00AM 8:10AM 8:10AM 7:00AM 10:10 AM 9:55AM 8:00AM 11:10 AM 10:55 AM 9:00AM 12:10 PM 11:55 AM 11:00 AM 2:10PM 1:55PM 12:00 PM 3:10PM 2:55PM 1:00PM 4:10PM 3:55PM 3:00PM 6:10PM 5:55PM 5:00PM 8:10PM 7:55PM 
UNITED LI~~O 
Your Airport Connection, O'Hare & Midway, All Day . .. Every Day 


. . The Observer/Rob Finch 
Coach D ave P~.uhn hopes 1996, h1s s_econd year here at Notre Dame, will be the year that his team skates 
past the opposition and puts the puck 1n the net on a consistent basis. 
Dhadphale. 
The Irish freshmen will look to contribute to the offense. Both Joe Dusbabek and Ben Simon are talented players who participated in the nation_al team camp this summer. 
"The camp definitely helped me get ready for this season," said Simon. "The level of com­petition was just awesome." Simon listed making the CCHA rookie team as foremost among his personal goals. 

Defensively, the Irish will be a young unit that includes just one senior and one junior. Sophomore Benoit Cotnoir (6 G, 13 A) was the team's top scor­ing defenseman last season and emerged as a young leader of the defense after playing in special teams situations. 
Other top returnees include senior Ben Nelsen and junior Justin Theel. Four freshman defenders, Sean Molina, Sean Seyferth, Tyson Fraser, and Nate Borega, will definitely contribute to the talent of the unit. 
Returning once more to mind the net for the Irish is standout goaltender Matt Eisler. He has appeared in 51 games over the past two seasons between the pipes and earned team MVP honors as a freshman. Eisler said that his goals were team­oriented. 

"I want us to jump substan­tially in the standings," he stat­ed. "And I want to make it to the second round of the play­offs." 
He said that the Irish must limit their mistakes to play bet­ter defense. 
"We can't afford to give up easy goals every game. By 'easy' I mean breakaways or a guy in front of the net all alone. We need to play well consis­tently." 
Tonight, the Fighting Irish hockey team opens its CCHA season against Western Michigan. Many players agreed it is a very important game. 
"It is essential that we win," said Eisler. "They're a quality team, and we've lost some close games to them in the past. It's time to beat them and get off on 
More thana music store 
MCAD·11435 

Tracks has 
used cd"s and 
uue 
buy quality 
used cd"s 
8 ,.00 
'l'or cash 
dZ3 
or

te aoa trade 
the right foot." 
Coach Poulin agreed. 

"Western Michigan is aggres­sive and competes well. "It's a big game for us." 
With Poulin behind the bench and an array of talented play­ers in front of him, one has to like Notre Dame's chances. 
.... 
(.) 
Cl! 
0.. E 
0 
< (.) u 
~ 
c 0 
Q) 
.0 
f\~~welry:imported clothing. stickers, insence and more! 
00 sta In Campus Shoppes 277-8338--www.kiva.net/-tracks/ 
-
Friday, October 18, 1996 
Story 
continued from page 28 
with a chance to relax and re­cuperate, or perhaps catch up on their studies. For head coach Debbie Brown's squad fall break presents an opportu­nity to reestablish themselves on the national scale. That op­portunity lies in the Pacific. 
After a Big East contest at West Virginia tomorrow, the Irish setters will head west and then further west as they will take on Cal State-Northridge on the 22nd before getting off the mainland to challenge the top team in the nation, the Hawaii Rainbows. for a pair. 
Before the Irish travel to Aloha land they must first take care of business against the up and down West Virginia Mountaineers who post a record of 15-8. The team that finished seventh in the confer­ence last season came from behind to defeat a very good Villanova squad that gave the Irish a run for their money. But nobody knows what to ex­pect from the Mountaineers as they turned around to lose to a struggling Georgetown team. 
The Matadors of Cal State­Northridge had a 8-9 mark heading into this weekend's ac­tion, but some of those losses have been to top twenty foes. The Big Sky conference leaders have tangled with the then tenth ranked San Diego State Aztecs and the currently thir­teenth ranked Trojans from Southern Cal. 
So the Matadome should pro­vide a good place for the Irish to tune up before they play in what will be a very hostile envi­ronment, Special Events Arena in Honolulu, HI. 
Coach Brown will be hoping that the new offensive scheme, implemented just recently, will be running smoothly. The new offense designed to give the team more options comes with the return of setter Carey May. Coach Brown analyzed how the team is making the adjust­ments. 
"I think we are doing pretty well, we still have a long ways to go. Carey is working really hard to get back into shape physically and to get back into the flow of things. But, we are definitely a better team than we were a couple of weeks ago." 
Sophomore middle blocker Lindsay Treadwell discussed the team in its time of transi­tion. 
"It does take awhile, but now we have Jaimie Lee back on the outside hitting the crap out of the ball. So, I think it will help in the long run." 
Lee, who has returned to her 

The Observer • SPORTS 
natural outside hitter slot after filling in for May fills out possi­bly one of the most dynamic hitting tandems in the country. The fearsome foursome of Lee, hitters Jenny Birkner and Angie Harris and middle blocker Mary Leffers can give teams fits. Birkner, Harris, and Lee were all district performers from a year ago and Leffers, a fresh­mc.n, was a highly touted recruit. 
The person who makes the offense go, May, has continued to get back into playing form as she now has the opportunity to practice with no matches this past week. The junior saw her first action of the season against Illinois State and she started in the wins over Providence and Boston College. 
On the island the squad bet­ter be on top of their game as the Rainbows usually draw over 7,000 a match, over twice as much as any other school. But, as coach Brown mentioned, this team enjoys that type of atmos­phere. 
"All of us know what it is going to be like, Hawaii is famous for bringing in tons of people," Treadwell added. "We'll have to be prepared physically, but maybe more mentally." 
The 'Bows are 50-1 in the past two seasons and are among the top twenty as a team 


... 
last three nationally-ranked foes, with George Mason and Washington State being the others. So the opportunities are running thin for the Irish to reestablish themselves nation­ally. 
"We just need to make sure that we are getting better," Brown explained. "We can't control seedings or who we are going to play in the NCAAs, but we can control us getting bet­ter." 
in the categories of hitting, kills, assists, and blocking. All­American candidate, senior Angelica Ljungquist, is the base for her squad as she ranks sev­enth and sixth in hitting (.424) and blocking (1.84) respective­ly. 
Thus far this season the Domers have not faired well against ranked opponents as Stanford, Louisville, and Penn State have knocked off NO. Hawaii marks one of the team's 

STUDY ASIA 
SYRACUSE 
ABROAD IN 
HONG KONG 
STUDY-TRAVEL IN CHINA 
BUSINESS & LIBERAL ARTS COURSES 
GENEROUS GRANTS & SCHOLARSHIPS 
STUDY IN ENGLISH 
INTERNSHIPS 
Syracuse University I 19 Euclid Avenue Syracuse, NY 13244-4170 1-800-235-3472 DIPA@suadmin.syr.edu 
http://sumweb.syr.edu/dipa 

Celebrate the grand re-opening of University Park Mall by joining us for a disco benefit featuring the legendary K.C. and the Sunshine Band 

Date: Sunday, October 20 Place: Tidbits Field, University Park's new food court Time: 7pm Admission: s2s, includes hors d'oeuvres, beer, wine. For more information, call (219) 277-2223 Tickets are available at our Customer lnformo~on Center and all proceeds help the Aro Parseghion Medical Research Foundation find acure for Neimonn-Pick Type Cdisease. 
But with all the themes we could hove used for this party, why did we choose disco ?The answer is simple: That's the way, uh-huh, uh-huh, we like it. Uh-huh, uh-huh. 

y 
1-IEUICAL RESEARLH 
Cocktail Attire SuNNY UNIVERSITY 
FOUNOATION 
101.5,.. PARK MALL 


• WOMEN's SOCCER 

Rutgers, other 'tough' Big East foes challenge Irish 
By KATHLEEN LOPEZ 
Sports Writer 
There is no time for rest and relaxation for the women's soc­cer team. The Irish will play three Big East matches during fall break. All of the matches will take place at Alumni Field. 
Playing at home will be an added bonus for the team. The Irish finished up a grueling road trip. In the past two weeks, the team defeated North Carolina and Duke in North Carolina. Then last weekend in California, the Irish beat Stanford. but Santa Clara upset the top-ranked squad, 3-1. 
The main goal for the Irish is to focus on regaining some con­fidence, after suffering their first loss of the season to the Santa Clara Broncos last week. "It should be easy to regain confidence as long as we stay focused." said senior Amy VanLaecke about the team's main goal. 
"The first thing is that we have to get our confidence back," said head women's soc­
cer coach Chris Petrucelli. "Then we have to re-establish that we are a confident team. We have to play with a little bit more emotion. Also, we have to play quicker and move a little bit more off the ball, all of the stuff we did not do against Santa Clara." 
"We need to know that we are capable of winning," said freshman Jen Grubb. "The loss really set us back. We were kind of fiat, but we are starting to pick it up." 
First on the list of victims is the Scarlet Knights of Rutgers. The Irish face them on Sunday. Hutgers is returning nine starters this year. They fin­ished last year with a record of 13-6-1. 
The Scarlet Knights conclud­ed the season last year with a third place finish. Notre Dame leads the series, 3-0-1 which includes a Notre Dame victory over the Scarlet Knights 3-0 in the last year's Big East tourna­ment. Rutgers is coming off a big win against No. 15 James Madison. 
"Rutgers has done well," said Petrucelli. "They are the third best team in the Big East. They 
are young, talented, and well­
coached." 
"Rutgers is always a tough 
team," said junior Holly 
Manthei. "They are strong like 
the other Big East teams. They 
will provide a big challenge for 
us on Sunday." 
Then next Friday, the West 
Virginia Mountaineers come to 
Alumni Field. 
The Mountaineers will try to 
keep pace with the defending 
national champions. This is the 
first year of existence for a 
women's soccer program at the 
University of West Virginia. 
The Mountaineers are going to 
have their hands full with the 
Irish, who are looking to regain 
some confidence and domi­
nance on the field. 
Finally the team will host the 
Seton Hall Pirates on Oct. 27. 
The Pirates are a young team, 
and they return all eleven of 
their starters. 

Last year they posted a record of 9-8-1. This will only be the second meeting between the two teams, with the Irish ·leading the series. Last year they dominated Seton Hall in 

The Observer/Mike Ruma 
Sophomore Shannon Boxx (#5) and teammate Cindy Daws (#2) hope to recapture the magic touch they had against North Carolina two weeks ago. 
New Jersey, 5-0. ourselves to play well and not 
The Irish are trying to remain slack off," said Grubb. focused with only a few games The team will only have two remaining in the regular sea­regular season games left. son. Then they will have to focus 
"This weekend we are going on the Big East tournament with the same strategy and which will be held at Alumni overcome ourselves, and force Field. 
,_ 
LONDON $275 
Paris $233 Madrid $242 Guatemala $238 Hong Kong $434 Bangkok $477 
f.UU AAE tACH WAY F"OM INDIANAPOliS lASED OH A ROUNOTW PI.MCHASl. FAAES DO NOT IHClUO£ fEDEAAl TAX(S 0111 Pf(s TOTAUNCi lfTWUN $3-$.. 5, D£Pf.NOING OH O£SnNAT10N 01t OlPAm.ME CHAAGU PAID DI'KllY fO fO«EIGH GO'fU;NMfNTS. 
[ij.UI.f411rravel ~ 
National Reservation Center 1-800-2-COUNCIL 
( 1-800-226-8624) 
~J:I/wanv.ciee.org!tnroeUmra 
EUROPASS FROM $210 
Happy 2 I s• Bir•hday our anaelic dauah•er, 
Colleen Carey 
ADVERTISEMENT 

NOTRE DAME 
V:Varslty C:Ciub !:Intramural

~ SPORTSIIII
. 0················· 0 ................. 0 END 
r­


19
18 
FOOTBALL/V

MEN'S SOCCER/V 
AT RUTGERS  VS. AIR FORCE  
7:30PM  AT STADIUM, 1:30PM  
(TV: NBC. 1:30PM)  
CROSS COUNTRY/Y  
AT TUCSON iNVITATIONAL  
AT TUCSON, AZ  

25  26  
WOMEN'S  HOCKEY/V  
SOCCER/V  AT MIAMI OF OHIO  
VS. WEST VIRGINIA  
AT ALUMNI FJELD.  
7:30PM  

20 

MEN'S SOCCER/V 
AT VILLANOVA, 1:110 PM 
WOMEN'S SOCCER/V 
VS. RUTGERS, AT ALUMNI FIELD, I PM 
WOMEN'S ROWING/C 
HEAD OF 7HE CHARLES REGATTA AT BOSTON, MA 
27 

WOMEN'S SOCCER/V 
VS. SETON HALL AT ALUMNI HALL., I PM 
WOMEN'S ROWING/( 
REGATTA AT COLUMBUS, OH 


Let your NIKE studmt rep know the time and locationofwJUr et•entsj(Jr next month. Reach her at: co/Iem.henshaw@nike.com. 
Did you know...? 
That you could own acondominium or townhome just minutes from Notre Dame for as little as $379* per month? 
A wise investmentfor students, parents, alumni andfaculty. 
• 
Condominiums and townhomes as low as $56,000 

• 
Perfect for game weekends 

• 
Beautiful waterfront settings ~sRO~ 


~r§)~

North Shore Club 
'!'­
~ ~ $ 
~SHQY-1-G

Models Open Daily Sat. &Su11. 12-5 P.M. 
(219) 232-2002
(800) 404-4275 

' Monrhly paymcnrs of I~ .md I. b:ncd on~ purchase pmc of $SS,990 wHh 20% down and a.lO·year 7.37~ A.R.M. 

----------------------------------------------------------------~--­
Friday, October 18, 1996 The Observer • TODAY page 27 
MIXED MEDIA JACK OHMAN YOUR HOROSCOPE. JEANE DIXON 


HAPPY BIRTHDAY! IN THE NEXT YEAR OF YOUR LIFE: Success will come when you get hack to hasics. Domestic change, could occur between no" and 'the end of the year. A raise or promo­tion will mean new financial free­dom. Property transactions are favored early in 1997. Next summer should be a golden period for family life. Contacts you make while on vacation could boost you up the career ladder. A change of lifestyle will bring more leisure time. Use it wisely. Develop a previously neglected talent. 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: boxer Tommy Hearns. actress Pam Dawber, trumpeter Wynton Marsal<s, singer Laura Nyro. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): You and YIPs reach a new under­standing. A friend may question your plans. Ignore any negative comments. Your timely su2gestions will lead to a successful out~~me. 
TAURUS (April 20-Ma'r 20J: A legacy or windfall gives ym1 new options. Think things through before leaving your present job or sUu1ing a business. You need to ta~e care of old debts tlrst. 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20J: Long-term investments are fa, ored if you want security in the future. Group activities will hold special appeal this evening. Good friends 
DILBERT 
,C...T THE TRI\DE 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 30 Big-house connector

1 Wackos 31 Get cozy 
10 Certain deodorant 
33Work 35 Alphabet trio 

15 Exotic 36 Exceeder
16 Uplift 39 New Deal org. 
17 Servopneuma­tic instrument 42ldle 18 Diet beverage 
43 Pianist Jose brand 47 Help wanted abbr.

19 Blemish 48 Seine sights 
20Bears, in Barcelona so Demanding 21 Too 51 1960 Pirate hero, for short 
22 Plan detail 52 Fictional24 Scattered 
be a mer 26 Fortune 500 
54 Barbecue 
orgs. 

accessory 27 Descendants 
55 Betting window 29 Signs option 
want to introduce vou tp intt:re~tin!! new people or pastimes. ~ SCOTT ADAMS CANCER (June 21-Jul' 22t: A friend shares a business idea. Be careful not to commit yourself to a
CHEAP PENS "f THAT'S ii-\AT'S ENOUGI-I 
pic-in-the-sky project. Your roman­tic partner may want a more pcnna­
g ORIGINAL. OKAY 1 lNDUSTR'< R£.5Et>.RCH 
~ 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

nent arrangement. If you arc happ~
FILL 'E.f\ UP. BUT FOR TODA'<. IT'S 
to!!cthcr, go for it! -LEO (July 23-r\ug. n 1: Reach
1'1"\ f>..FR.AID I CAN'T ilME TO 1-\IT TI-\E. 
out to people \\ ho can enrich 'our
GIVE YOU ~NY BUfFE.i. 

EYE. CONTACT. 
57 Gather 59 long-­60 Montana, once 61 Red chalcedony 63 Plume's owner, 
in song 64Aibuquerque's river 65 The arms of Morpheus 66 Poorly equipped 
DOWN 
1 Stuffs hastily 2 Patient's 
problem 3 One in a cast 4X 5 Word for the 
Lone Ranger 6 Publicity 7 Some 
mollusks 8 Vachel Lindsay 
lik. Shared intellectual rurstllh hc·lr you make friends. A hu,ine" "'"" ciate needs your full conpn<llitlll Do wlwl you can. VIRGO (Aug. 2.'·Scpl 22J: 
Refuse to let irrational fear' hold you back. Address what is bothering you with an expen"s help. A friend who has some big problems 'CL'b 
your advice. 
LIBRA (Sept 23-0ct. 22):. Romance thrives on considerate ges­tures. Your insurance needs may have changed. Talk with your agent. Self-improvement activities enjoy highly favorable influences this weekend. 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-No'. 21 1: Friends share delightful news. Tick­ets for a play or festive event sud­denly become available. A spur-of­the-moment invitation from a spe· cia! friend is very welcome. 
SAGITTARllJS rNov. 22-Dec. 21 ): Planning ahead i' the key to greater professional success. Weigh a job offer carefully. Only you can decide whether it is be!ler to stay put 
or move on. 
CAPRI COR!\ 1Dec. ~.:'-Jan. 19 ): Sharing quality time "ith a child can he as simple as reading a book together. A trip to the library or park is also fun. Why not bake cookies together using an old family recipe0 
AQUARIUS !Jan 20-f'eb. 18 J: A professional matter that 'ou thou2ht settled. still needs anention. Talk~with people who are still unde­cided. They need your leadership but could turn resemful if 1 ou tn to make their tlecisions for them. · 
PISCES (Feb. 19-!'vlan:h 20J. 
Shared imerests giYe 1·ou something 
10 di,cuss with-casual friends. A 
nc\\ electronic item capture~ ~our 
imagination. An acquaintancL' ma~ 
t'Xtend a last-minute in,·it<tlinn 


.. 
• 
.... 
-
• 
poem 
9Sun. talk 10 Brains 11 Truck 
attachment 12Track 
competitor 13 Baffled 14 Reprimands 21 Saint's home 23 Shares 25 Theaters of 
old 28 Month after Av 
32Symphony originally dedicated to Napoleon 
34 "I'm game!" 37--Aito 38 Sticking places 39 Binds 40 Kind of cable 41 "The Card 
Players" artist 44 Prepare the house for sale, e.g. 

45 Bucket passers 56 Badger 46 Sang group 49 Solid, polycyclic sa Where the 
Wanted: Reporters, 
alcohol Ucayali flows 52 Throat trouble 61 Dernier -­53 Honks, as a 62 Old French love 
photographers
goose poem 
and editors. 
Answers to any three clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420-5656 (75¢ per minute). 
Annual subscriptions are available for the 
Join The Observer staff. 
best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: (800) 762-1665. 
.. SPORTS Weekend 
... 
• 
" 
page 28 
• HOCKEY 
Face-off 
h•• .. 
The Observer/Jed Donahue Coach Dave Poulin expects his players, like Ben Simon (#8), to eventually be "the best team in the nation", which includes winning face-offs on a regular basis. 
• VOLLEYBALL 
Over the rainbow 

Captain Jamie Lee {14) and her Irish teammates look to reestablish the dominant play that they showed early in the 8eason. ·.· 
Fall break gives team ch·ance to regroup 
ByJOE CAVATO 
SporuWri~r 
Half of the semester is in the books and the time has come when students evaluate tJ1oir semesters and see what they have to do to and up where they hope to end up in December. 

-
The same is true for the Notre Dame women's volley­ball team who have dropped to number 22 in the USA Today poll and to the number 1B slot in Volleyball Magazine's top twenty. 
Fall break provides students 


Junior Matt Eisler, a two-year starter, is the backbone of Coach Poulin's 1996 Irish defense. 
Poulin expects much from '96 squad 
By CHARLEY GATES SportS Writer 
When asked what broad vi­sions he had for the Notre Dame hockey team, head coach Dave Poulin answered quite candidly, "We eventually want to be the best hockey team in the country." 

If anyone could help the Fighting Irish achieve such daunting goal, Poulin is the man. He knows what it takes to succeed. He is the most celebrated hockey player to come out of Notre Dame; dur­ing his career as a collegiate 
• MEN'S SOCCER 

Irish seek one thing: 
player here, he was a four-time letter winner and two-time captain. He ranks among Notre Dame's career leaders in every offensive statistic and spent twelve years playing in the NIIL. 
see HOCKEY I page 24 
RESPECT 
Rutgers provides true test 
By BRIAN REINTHALER Spons Writer 
Every athletic season con­tains a game or series of games that will determine how good a team really is. No matter what the team accomplished prior to this part of the season, it will be remembered for how it re­sponded to this challenge. It is the great team that rises to such an occasion and plays as though it has something to prove. 
According to the critics, the Notre Dame men's soccer team has something to prove in the week to come. 
One might think that, with their 9-2-2 overall record and an undefeated conference mark (5-0-2) that is good enough for sole possession of first place in the Big East, the Irish have al­ready proven that they are a team to be reckoned with. 
However, the people who put out the national polls are not completely convinced. 
The Irish have risen to the No. 15 ranking in the country, but still find themselves nine spots behind tonight's oppo­nent, No. 6 Rutgers, whose 9-1­2 record includes a loss to Seton Hall, who Notre Dame shutout earlier in the season. 
How could this be? 
It seems that the voters were waiting for the Irish to falter when they were tripped up 1-0 on the road against DePaul. It just didn't matter that Notre Dame completely outplayed the Blue Demons from the opening whistle to the final horn, or that a fluke goal was DePaul's only shot on goal in the game. 


They must have also weighed heavily a 3-0 loss at then No. 21 Indiana, just one game after 
see SOCCER I page 23 
vs. Air Force, October 19, 1:30 at Arizona Invitational 

• Women need confidence boost 
October 19 vs. Rutgers,

I I October 20, 1 p.m. 
see page 26 at Central Collegiate 
~ 
J€&' Conference, October 18vs. Rutgers 
• Studs pull out first victory
~ 
Today, 7 p.m. 

SMC Soccer at Wooster see page 22 
S¢ 

October 20 October 19, 2 p.m. 
at West Virginia 




page 2 

FI GHTI 
1  2  3  4  Tot  RUSHING  Yds/GmNo  Yds  Avg TO  Lg  FIELD GOALS  Tot  
38  43  34  31  146  Denson  95.0  91  475  5.2  4  47  Sanson  5-6  
19  31  10  20  80  Edwards  47.4  60  237  4.0  3  11  Cengia  0-1  
Farmer  35.4  27  177  6.6  2  21  PUNTING  No  Avg  Bk  Lg  
NO  Dpp  Kinder  43.7  26  131  5.0  1  28  Smith  21  43.0 0  57  
128  74  
2242  1289  PASSING  Comp All  Pet  Yds  TD  lnt  Lg  KICKOFF RETURNS  No  Avg  TO  Lg  
448.4  257.8  PowIus  72  130  55.4 929 6  3  48  Rossum  4  39.0 1  99  
393  302  Jackson  4  6  66.7 65  1  0  28  Denson  2  22.5 0  35  
5.7  4.3  Mosley  2  19.5 0  21  
1248  497  RECEIVING  Rec  Yds  Avg  TO  Lg  Farmer  2  13.0 0  15  
249.6  99.4  Johnson  15  253 16.9 1  48  
256  169  Chryplewicz  15  145  9.7  2  29  DEFENSE  T  A  Tot  FC  FR  PBUSac  
4.9  2.9  Mosley  12  134 11.2 0  34  Cobbins  26  14  40  0  0  2  1  
994  792  Edwards  11  125 11.4 2  39  Tatum  24  14  38  1  0  1  1  
198.8  158.4  Covington  23  7  30  1  2  2  0  
76  63  SCORING  TD  2XP 1XP FG  Sal Pis  Dansby  13  15  28  0  1  1  1.5  
137  133  Edwards  5  1-1  0-0  0-0  0  32  Wynn  18  10  28  0  0  0  4.5  
3  5  Denson  5  0-0  0-0  0-0  0  30  Rossum  13  14  27  0  0  2  0  
15/10  5/4  Sanson  0  5-6  15-170-0  0  30  Berry  14  10  24  0  0  1  6  
38/73  21/68  Farmer  2  0-0  0-0  0-0  0  12  Guilbeaux  15  8  23  0  0  1  0  
52.1  30.9  
2/6  1/1  

i,S
"'"' 

SCORE BY QUARTERS 1 2 3 4 Tot RUSHING Yds/Gm No Yds Avg TD Lg FIELD GOALS Tot Air Force 43 57 27 64 191 Morgan 113.4 94 567 60 6 77 Thompson 3-7 Opponents to 27 16 23 76 Johnson 70.2 35 351 10.0 5 81 Barbery 2-3 
Addison 34.6 41 173 4.2 3 41 TEAM STATS AF Opp Singleton 27.4 22 137 6.2 2 27 PUNTING No Avg Bk Lg First Downs 121 93 Ranger 21.6 15 108 7.2 0 22 Whatley 1 45.0 0 45 Total yards 2328 1609 Kirkland 16 42.8 0 57 
Total yards per game 465.6 321.8 PASSING Comp All Pet Yds TD Jnt Lg Total offensive plays 366 333 Morgan 48 86 .558 559 3 2 65 KICKOFF RETURNS No Avg TO Lg Avg. yards per play 5.0 3.7 Singleton 6 30.7 0 67 
Rushing yards 1769 556 RECEIVING Rec Yds Avg TD Lg Ruff 1 25.0 0 25 Rushing yards per game 353.8 111.2 Alexander 9 141 15.7 1 57 Gilliam 1 21.0 0 21 Rushing plays 280 174 Addison 8 28 3.5 0 13 Ranger 2 16.5 0 19 Avg. yards per rush 6.0 3.4 Tyner 7 104 14.9 0 28 
Passing yards 559 1053 Ranger 6 139 23.2 1 42 DEFENSE T A Tot FC FR PBU Sac Passing yards per game 111.8 210.6 Giui 34 18 52 1 0 1 3 Passes completed 48 87 SCORING TD 2XP 1XP FG Sal Pis Guthrie 30 17 47 0 1 0 0 Passes attempted 86 159 Morgan 6 o-o o-o 0-0 0 36 Sanderson 17 17 34 1 1 1 0 Passes intercepted 2 7 Johnson 5 0-0 0-0 0-0 0 30 Walker 22 10 32 1 1 5 0 
Fumbles/Fumbles lost 8/3 16/6 Addison 3 1-1 0-0 0-0 0 20 Pipes 18 13 31 0 0 2 0 Third down conversions 36/74 25173 Thompson 0 o-o 10-11 3-7 0 19 Pupich 17 9 26 1 0 2 3 Percentage .486 .342 Barbery 0 Q-0 1Q-13 2-3 0 16 Curry 15 10 25 0 0 2 1.5 Fourth down conversions 4/6 4/9 Singleton 2 Q-0 Q-0 0-0 0 12 Fernan~ez 15 8 23 2 0 0 3 The Observer/Mike Rums Air Force linebacker Lee Guthrie (44)has
L----------------------------------------------_J recorded 47 tackles in 1996. 
"The Most Popular 
It's time to dine with your 
Papa ... 
... Dine-In and , Delivery now ~,t,, lfhth Locatiof!l's};: 

. ,--~ 
''Papa fohn's and ND Football-the tradition continues ... '' 
papa Predicts. . . ~oted "Bat Delivered Pizza" The 1995-1996 Observer ii'Yoted "Best Delivered Pizza" 1993 Best of Michiana 
N 0 TRE DAME: 45 ~oted "Best Delivered Pizza" 1994 Best of Michiana
• F 12 ~oted "Best Delivered Pizza" 1995 Best of Michiana
AI r 0 rce: ~oted "Best Delivered Pizza" 1 996 Best of Michiana r-rar~:-, r"Ga-m-ea-,-, 
I Pa,~:J~--})t:kl I ~-. '. ·. I
Your 
Is now 
IFou.tir.~"g~ ·,: '\oppingl I L.. ~~·~ .· 1ng, I
•Delivery rivers • Order Takers I /' ~· ~ . , I I · · , Stix 1 
I '< 495 I I . ·. QOO I
•Pizza Makers 

L-----.JL~----.J 

Hours: 
*New for SMC store 

Notre Dame: 271­
Mon thru Thurs: 
formerly cactus Jack's 
1 177
11 a.m. -1 a.m. 
··--­
Fri thru Sat: 11 a.m. -3 a.m. 

271-Saint Mary's:
Sunday: 
North Village Mall
12 p.m. -1 a.m. 
PAPA 




Friday, October 18, 1996 
NOTRE DAME SCHEDULE 
at Vanderbilt W14-7 
11th season at Notre Dame 
Career record: 212-93-7 At Notre Dame: 96-28-2 Against Air Force: 8-0 

No.Name  Pos.  Ht.  Wt.  YR  
1  Deke Cooper  FS  6-4  205 FR  
2  Kinnon Tatum  ILB  6-0  224 SR  
3  Ron Powlus  QB  6-2  212 SR  
4  Kory Minor  OLB  6-2  235 so  
5  Emmell Mosley  FL  5-8  184 SR  
6  Lyron Cobbins  ILB  6-0  246 SR  
7  JariousJackson  QB  6-1  218 so  
8  Eric Chappell  QB  6-5  220 FR  
9  Raki Nelson  WR  6-1  178 FR  
10  Mike Perona  QB  6-2  197 SR  
10  Deveron Harper  CB  5-10  175 FR  
11  Jay Johnson  WR  6-2  170 FR  
12  Mario Strayhorn  FS  6-1  210 so  
12  Scali Cengia  K  5-10  180 JR  
13  Bert Berry  OLB  6-3  245 SR  
14  Ivory Covington  CB  5-10  168 JR  
14  AJ. McGunigal  QB  6-3  190 SR  
15  Allen Rossum  CB  5-8  178 JR  
15  Paul Rogers  QB  6-2  220 SA  
16  Todd Dvorak  K  5-10  175 so  
16  John Shingler  WA  6-1  231 so  
17  Hunter Smith  P/WR  6-2  210 so  
17  MarkMcKenna  QB  5-8  194 SA  
18  Cikai Champion  SE  5-10  183 SA  
19  Jim Sanson  K  5-11  185 FA  
19  Wayne Gunn  ss  6-2  210 so  
20 Kevin Kopka40 Byron Joyner  K FS  5-7 6-2  196 so 160 so  
21  Shannon Stephens  WR  5-10  179 so  
21  Kevin McDonnell  K  5-11  180 so  
22  Jay Vickers  RB  6-1  205 FA  
23  Autry Denson  TB  5-10  189 so  
24  TyGoode  CB  5-11  189 JA  
25  Randy Kinder  TB  6-1  204 SA  
26  Lee Lalyelle  CB  5-10  188 FR  
26  Mall Mammolenli  TB  5-8  165 SA  
27  Bobbie Howard  ILB  5-10  228 so  
28  Ken Barry  FB  6-0  224 JR  
29  A'Jani Sanders  ss  5-11  182 so  
30  Jarvis Edison  FS  6-4  219 JR  
31  Robert Farmer  TB  5-11  227 SA  
32  Justin Meko  DB  5-11  190 so  
33  Jaime Spencer  FB  6-0  247 so  
34  Ronnie Nicks  DB  6-1  215 FA  
35  Scali Palumbo  p  5-11  189 SR  
35  Robert Phelps  CB  6-0  185 SA  
36  Tim Lynch  DB  5-9  170 JR  
36  Chris Wachtel  p  6-0  211 SR  
38  Paul Grimm  DB  5-9  169 JR  
39  Benny Guilbeaux  ss  6-2  202 so  
40  Kevin Carrella  TE  6-1  239 SA  
41  Joe Sabey  ILB  6-2  222 SA  
42  Allan Maiden  NG  6-4  271 SR  
43  BiiiWagasy  OLB  6-3  225 SR  
44  Marc Edwards  FB  6-0  237 SR  
45 45  Joey Goodspeed Chris McCarthy  FB/lB K  6-0 5-11  230 FR 213 JR  
45  Phil Sicuso  DB  5-11  175 so  
46  Bill Gibbs  FS  5-10  171 SA  
47  Bill Mitoulas  ILB  6-1  229 JR  
48  Renaldo Wynn  DE  6-3  275 SR  
49  Joe Thomas  ILB  6-2  226 so  
50  David Payne  OL  6-1  284 so  
51  Melvin Dansby  DE  6-4  288 SA  
52  Alex Mueller  OG  6-6  275 so  
53  Lamont Bryant  DE  6-4  253 so  
54  Ed Casieri  LB  6-1  230 so  
54  Luke Pelitgoul  LT  6-6  270 JR  
55  Shellon Jordan  DE  6-3  241 so  
56  Kurt Belisle  DE  6-3  251  JR  
57  Rick Kaczenski  c  6-4  264 SA  
58  Mike Burgdorf  TE  6-1  222 SA  
59  Mallhew Kunz  ss  6-1  216 JR  
60  Antwoine Wellington  LB  6-2  230 FR  
60  Sean Rogers  OT  6-0  292 SA  
63  John Farrell  c  5-10  253 SA  
64  John Merandi  c  6-3  273 FA  
64  Mike Denvir  TE  6-4  246 SR  
65  Mall Griesbach  OG  6-1  258 JR  
66  Jell Kilburg  c  6-4  283 SR  
67  John Wagner  OT  6-7  320 so  
68  Mall Brennan  OL  6-5  270 FR  
69  David Quist  NG  6-5  290 SA  
70  Tim Ridder  OT  6-7  297 so  
71  JerryWisne  OG  6-7  285 so  
72  Leon Hires  OL  6-6  280 FA  
73  Mike Doughty  OT  6-8  313 SR  
74  Rob Mow!  DL  6-5  290 FR  
75  Chris Clevenger  OT  6-8  290 SR  
76  Jeremy Akers  OG  6-6  300 SA  
77  Brad Williams  DL  6-6  250 FA  
78  Jon Spickelmier  c  6-3  267 JR  
79  Mike Rosenthal  OG  6-7  310 so  
80  Malcolm Johnson  SE  6-5  203 JR  
81  Lewis Dawson  WR  6-0  180 FR  
82  Mike Gandy  TEJDE  6-4  235 FA  
84  Albert Jones  WR  5-11  183 SA  
85  Antwon Jones  NG  6-3  258 so  
86  Dan O'Leary  TE  6-5  230 FR  
87  Jimmy Friday  DE  6-2  240 so  
88  Bobby Brown  SE  6-3  185 so  
89  John Cerasani  DE  6-4  258 so  
90  Lance Legree  LB  6-2  248 FA  
91  Darnell Smilh  DE  6-5  276 SA  
92  Joe Ferrel  LB  6-3  230 FR  
93  B.J. Scali  DL  6-4  250 FR  
94  Justin Orr  WR  6-2  235 SA  
95  Corey Benne!!  DE  6-1  251  JR  
96  Jim Jones  DL  6-4  260 FR  
98  Pele Chryplewicz  TE  6-5  265 SA  
99  Jason Ching  DL  6-4  270 FR  

The Irish Extra • THE TEAMS 
He is Notre Dame's defensive signal-caller and leading tackler, but Lyron Cobbins will meet his match tomorrow when he faces Air Force engi­neer Beau Morgan. 
Cobbins has been twice nominated for the Butkus Award, which goes to the nation's best linebacker; Morgan ranks 17th nationally in rushing-per-game (113 yards) and last year became the eighth player in NCAA history to 

94 Mall Waszak DT 6-3 243 so 95 Jamie Maunz DT 6-4 272 SR 96 Chris Schweighardt NG 5-11 225 SA 97 Camron Curry DT 6-5 265 SR 98 Joe Suhajda DT 6-3 250 SR 99 Keith Ensor OLB 6-1 230 SR 

Lyron Cobbins vs. Beau Morgan 
rush and pass for more than 1,000 yards. 
"His quickness is what impresses me," praised Cobbins of the little man. "He is rare in that he has the ability to both run and throw the foot­ball. We have to play aggressive, make him make mistakes, and break his rhythm early." 
Cobbins and Co. left Morgan in his wake last season in a defensive manhandling of the Falcons. 
13th season at Air Force 
Career record: 95-57-1 At Air Force: 95-57-1 Against Notre Dame: 2-8 
No. Name Pas. Wt. YR 
1 Steve Pipes FAL 192 JR 
2 Tom Brown QB 178 SR 
3 Jason Sanderson FS 214 so 
4 Dallas Thompson K 5-11 190 so 
4 Dynasty Thompson SOAP 5-11 190 so 
5 Knots Landing Thompson SOAP 5-11 190 so 
5 Michael Walker we 5-7 187 SR 
6 Andre Johnson HB 5-7 175 SR 
6 Jason Kirkland p 6-0 167 so 
7 Charlton Warren we 5-9 192 so 
8 Tim Curry we 5-10 180 so 
9 Dylan Newman sc 6-0 174 so 
10 Marcus Alexander WR 6-3 181 SR 
11 Blane Morgan QB 5-9 187 so 
12 Beau Morgan QB 5-11 195 SA 
13 Tyrone Barbery PK 5-7 165 SA 
13 Brutus "The Barber" Beelcake WWF 6-0 220 Fake 
14 John Flynn QB 5-11 182 so 
15 Floyd Brazier HB 5-10 185 JR 
17 Mel Whalley LB/P 6-0 220 JR 
18 Billy Free DLB 6-1 215 so 
19 Tobin Ruff HB 6-0 205 JR 
20 Frank Staine-Pyne sc 6-0 192 JA 
21 Charles Gilliam HB 5-9 211 so 
22 Bryan Habas FAL 5-10 189 so 
23 Barry Roche HB 5-11 205 so 
24 Jemal Singleton HB 5-9 192 so 
25 Jamie Rhone FAL 5-10 192 JR 
26 Nishawn Smagh sc 5-11 181 FR 
27 Marc Raliger HB 5-11 180 SA 
28 Nate James WR 5-9 167 so 
29 Jimmy Oentice FAL 5-11 197 so 
30 Jeffrey Felton DB 5-11 195 FA 
31 Sean O'Brien ILB 5-11 234 so 
32 Ryan Hill FB 5-9 210 so 
33 Mall Parada FB 5-8 209 so 
34 Brian Mulloy FS 6-1 193 SA 
35 Charlie Jackson DB 6-0 198 FA 
37 Abe Ebia FAL 6-0 198 JR 
38 Nakia Addison FB 5-8 205 SA 
39 Craig Tanner FB 5-10 231 SR 
40 Jared Sessum sc 5-11 188 FR 
41 Todd Eilers HB 5-10 180 SR 
42 Ben Bartle!! OLB 6-2 210 so 
43 Josh DeMons ILB 6-2 220 JR 
44 Lee Guthrie ILB 6-1 223 SR 
45 Alex Pupich OLB 6-5 242 SA 
46 Mike Tyler OLB 6-1 215 so 
47 Marty O'Brien ILB 6-1 216 so 
48 Ryan Harris DLB 6-0 208 so 
49 Lance Rosa-Miranda ILB 6-0 218 JR 
50 Brian Phillips DC 6-1 242 so 
51 Chris Gizzi ILB 5-11 225 JR 
52 Jell Parr DC 6-3 240 JR 
53 D.J. Leary Jr. OT 6-3 263 SA 
54 Mike Zeman OC 6-1 250 SR 
55 Jell Haugh ILB 6-2 240 so 
56 Steve Fernandez DLB 6-1 238 JR 
57 Tim Schumacher DT 6-3 250 JR 
58 Jeffrey Mohr ILB 6-1 225. JR 
59 Joe Kennedy NG 6-0 240 so 
59 Teddy Kennedy OWl 6-0 240 Sen. 
60 Scott Breece OT 6-3 280 JR 
61 Shawn Tellers OG 6-1 265 JR 
62 Mark Thurbush OG 6-3 266 JR 
63 Ryan Paolucci OT 6-4 258 JA 
64 Jason Campbell OT 6-4 265 SR 
65 Zach Jordan OG 6-3 245 so 
66 Cliff Reimer DT 6-5 2W~:\SO 
67 Rob Evert OG 6-4 258 .; ~R 
68 Karl Falk OG 6-{) 260 JR 
69 Mark Kasayka OG 6-1 261 so 
70 Craig Fisher DT 6-2 230 so 
71 Eric Woodring OT 6-4 276 so 
72 Charles Parks OT 6-6 280 JR 
73 Joe Cashman OT 6-3 250 so 
74 Frank Mindrup OT 6-5 280 so 
75 James Nolan DT 6-3 236 so 
76 Carlton Hendrix OG 6-3 280 SR 
77 Ron Jenkins NG 6-2 261 JR 
78 Bryce Fisher DT 6-2 237 so 
79 James Smith OG 6-1 267 so 
80 Ryan Quaale TE 6-2 227 JR 
81 Ben Torrez WR 6-2 195 so 
82 Alex Wright WR 5-8 178 so 
83 Rory Rosenbach TE 6-4 250 JR 
84 Dustin Tyner WR 5-11 174 SR 
85 Mike Barron WR 6-1 181 so 
86 Ross Johnston OLB 6-1 222 JR 
87 Mall Brancato TE 6-4 241 so 
88 Brandon Fleck TE 6-1 221 so 
89 Tren!Tripple OS 6-3 225 SR 
90 Henry Lasher TE 6-2 210 so 
91 Sean Finnan ILB 6-3 230 JR 
92 Scali Chandler NG 6-3 280 JR 
93 Jarrell Hlavaty TE 6-4 245 JR 
93 Shawn Thomas DT 6-2 276 FR 


page 4 The Iri~h Ex:rra• COVER STORY Friday, October 18, 1996 
Randy Kinder often appears to be running down a hill. 

On 
paper, Randy Kinder is a coach's dream. He runs very, very fast. He carries weight well on his frame. He's blessed with strength and field vision, can hit the hole in an instant, and likes contact. 
But in reality, Kinder has not yet become a dream come true. 
"I haven't done all that I've wanted to," Kinder acknowledges. "I have more to accomplish, more goals for myself. I just hope I can break through and make the most of my opportunities." 
In his freshman year, Kinder surpassed expecta­tions for a rookie tailback as Lee Becton's more than capable back-up, posting 537 yards (second on the team to Becton), a 6.0 yard per carry average, and two 100+ yard games. 
With Becton hampered by a groin injury, Kinder assumed a starting role during his sophomore year. He continued to prove himself as a promising rusher with a string of four 1 00+ yard games, including a career high of 143 yards against Purdue. His total yards on the season crept up to 702. But after Becton returned to the squad, Kinder found the ball in his hands on fewer occasions, unable to keep his starting spot. Unfortunately, his solid season was capped by a knee ligament injury, preventing him from playing in the Fiesta Bowl against Colorado. 
"We went through a tough year, my sophomore year," Kinder recalfs. "With Lee injured I was able to get a lot of games in. But when he came back, I wasn't playing that much anymore. And then I had the knee mjury which ended my season. It was tough." 
In the following off-season, disciplinary troubles found Kinder and fellow tailback Robert Farmer. The two were accused of misconduct dating back to the night of October 16, 1994, by a female student at Notre Dame. Although the University conducted an investigation and exonerated the athletes, the incident placed another question mark on the athlete's shoul­ders. 
In his junior year, Kinder's numbers kept improving as he started eight games in the backfield for the Irish. He again paced the squad, amassing 809 yards and adding nine touchdowns on the ground, tying Marc Edwards for the team lead in rushing touch­downs. Once again, though, his season was marred, as minor injuries and a death in his family kept the speedster from reaching full acceleration. And filling in nicely was budding star freshman Autry Denson. 
"Last year, I was able to play a lot and get really rolling, but then I was injured, there's a death in my family, and I miss a game. I come back and don't get to play as much as I had wanted to. I never really have felt like I've hit my stride. Last year was the closest I've come, but, again, I never really got there." 
To add to his list of setbacks, Kinder was kept out of Notre Dame's bowl game for the second year in a row, this time due to a team suspension. Kinder released a statement to the press apologizing to Notre Dame for his suspension, pointing to "overindulgence of alcohol and my subsequent immature behavior" as the reasons for the disciplinary action. The suspen­sion forced Kinder to miss spring football practices as well. 
At Culver Military Academy this past summer, Kinder took snaps again with the team for the first time in a long time, hoping to start fresh in his senior season. But before the team played their first game, another injury, this time a pulled quadriceps muscle, forced Kinder to the sidelines once again. 
lie returned to face Texas in the third game of the season. and got in a few carries before an ill-timed Hon Powlus pitch on the option allowed Texas safety 

At times, so too 
has his career.
I 0 

By DAVE TREACY 
Associate Sports Editor 
Bryant Westbrook the opportunity to nearly decapi­tate the running back. Although his head somehow all-around game. stayed on his body, Kinder sat out the remainder of "Randy came out of highthe game. school knowing how to run 
Thus far, Kinder's 131 yards on 26 carries only around end. Sure, he's fast. But he needed to learn raise a brow, mainly because people expect better how to do other things, like take it up the middle and from him. He has so much talent. So much speed. So catch passes and block well. • much potential. "If an opponent has to prepare for an all-around 
There's that word again, potential. player, you've got the advantage. And Randy's a 
"I definitely haven't grown as much as I'd hoped much better back now than he was coming in." to," Kinder admits. "It's been a strange career for Randy Kinder's collegiate career ends after the next me; never reaching the top of my game. six or seven games. With 2,179 career yards, he has 
"It has been frustrating. But I feel like every time I the opportunity to reach third place on the all-time ~et out there, I'm still learning, still getting better. I rushing list, needing 503 yards to catch up with JUSt hope I get the opportunity to reach my full poten­Jerome Heavens. God knows Kinder has the speed to tial." catch up. 
That's the funny thing about Randy Kinder. Behind Kinder on the list of the all-time leadingChances are, he only needs one opportunity. If he rushers are Lee Becton, Jerome Bettis, Ray Zellars, gets it, if the holes are open for a split second, if a and Ricky Watters. He needs 162 more to pass the defender takes a bad angle on a tackle, if he gets Gipper. some breathing room ... say goodbye, 'cause he's gone. Randy Kinder has accomplished quite a few things
"I rely on a lot of speed... God gave me a lot of at Notre Dame. He's managed to make his mark speed. It's really been the centerpiece of my game despite healthy competition from teammates, injuries.since high school. It still is." and problems off the field. 
However, Kinder has had his chances on the field. It's time for Kinder to break out. To take one playAlthough he has split time with Denson and Farmer coast-to-coast, maybe more than one. To make peo­thus far, some folks believe that success doesn't come ple realize that he is in the process of realizing his from an excess of opportunities, but from making the potential. He needs time. most of the ones you get. He's got six more games.
One man with this opin­ion is running back coach Earle Moslex. 
"You cant be inefficient with the chances you get. 
NOTRE DAME
The fact is, when you've got the ball, you've got to do something with it. 
-ALL-TIME 
"Case in point, take Reggie Brooks. He aver­
G

aged 8.0 yards per carry (during the 1992 season). On how many carries? Fifteen a game. That's what being efficient is all about, and that's why 1 All ni k""tl 
Reggie was a good back. ' · en r n "' 
889 4131 4.6 49
"Randy's got sprinter's (1982,H/85) 
~~~r3-·ve I ~i~: \~at t~: ::l;VAatt~:f'OJ'IUih>n 
673 3471 5.J 32
Olymkpics idf he. fkocubsed ~n . (197'6-19:79)~ ·..· 
trac . An t m a out It, 
he's 200 pounds. He 3. Jwrn~ Heavens moves pretty fast for a big (197.5.·1978) 590 2682 4,5 15 
man. But he's tot to make 
~;~n~~~i ~~ntt£i~r·::: nt<m~;ipF 557 2409 4.3 4 anytime," Denson says. 5. George Gipp
"He's dangerous." 
369 2341 6.3 21
In Kinder's case, being (1917·1920) 
~h~ goe;p0o~~ti~na kn~~~ t1~ ;·.~.Tony.}J-r®ks 
423 2274 5.4 12
!~':t~l~syshihi~~1o:t ~~~~ i .(l987I:l991) cutting off chances for 7. Emil Sitko Kinder to take the ball (1946-1949) 362 2226 6.1 25 
around the ends. Mosley emphasizes that it Randy.Kindd 

371 2179 5.8 I<1
~~~nd~:J is\~ h~~!~ ~~~d ! (l993•l996) 
Friday, October 18, 1996 
IRISH ON THE OFFENSIVE... 
The Observer/Mike Ruma 

The Irish rushing attack will attempt to match the 397 yards they rolled up against Washington last Saturday. 
Getting back to his roots last weekend against Washington, Coach Holtz utilized the offen­sive strengths of his team to the utmost. 
Shedding the finesse-oriented Blarney, Holtz reemphasized the smashmouth football that he so dearly loves. In the process, the Irish rolled up almost 400 yards on the ground. Joe Moore's offensive line recovered from the Ohio State debacle, pounding the Husky defense and opening up mammoth holes. 
Tailback Autry Denson rushed for 137 yards on 20 car­ries and scored one touchdown. Three other backs also had touchdown runs. 
They will face an Air Force defense that. although known for its success against the run, gave up 410 yards to the Irish 
At first glance, the Irish de­fense may have its hands full. Air Force rolls into South Bend with a rushing arsenal that ranks second in the nation with a 353.8 average. Swift-footed engineer Beau Morgan, who nearly led the Falcons back from a 35-0 deficit at Notre Dame Stadium two years ago, has zipped for 455 yards on the season. 
On second thought, Air Force came into last year's contest ranked second in rushing and planned to run all over Notre Dame. Instead, the Irish defense embarrassed the Falcons, shackling Morgan and Co. to 57 first-half rushing yards {only nine yards on four carries by Morgan) and 69 total yards. 
At what point in tomorrow's game Air Force will gain a first down is anyone's guess, but Bob Davie's defense has reached a level of near indomitability. The Irish thrashed the Huskies for five sacks last week and didn't al­low Washington to make its second first down until six min­utes remained in the half! 
Still, the Irish must be wary of a letdown -Air Force has managed 27 or more points in three of the last five meetings against Notre Dame. Further, the Irish tend to play down a level against weaker teams. 
Noseguard Alton Maiden dis­missed the thought. 
"We're not going to go in there not respecting their team," Maiden insisted. 
"They run the ball with a strong offense, and from a defensive point of view, we have to very disciplined, and make the right decisions. We on the ground last season. Linebackers Lee Guthrie and Alex Pupich lead the attack that allows only 3.2 yards a carry. Pupich, fellow linebacker Steve Fernandez, and lineman Chris Gizzi each have three sacks apiece to pace the Falcons. 
Steve Pipes is the Falcons' preeminent defensive back. He leads the squad with two inter­ceptions through the first five games. The team total through five games is seven. 
Like his linebacker buddies, Pipes will also have his hands full this weekend. This over­whelmingly powerful rushing attack opened up the once-dor­mant Irish vertical passing game. Holtz has unleashed se­cret weapon Shannon Stephens on the nation. 
So far, he has performed. Against the Huskies Stephens caught 3 passes for 97 yards, including an acrobatic touch­down reception. He also ran a reverse for another 10 yards. In addition to Stephens, receiv­er Malcolm Johnson also had a 45 yard touchdown catch, and has become a reliable target. 

Air Force, and the remaining foes the Irish will face this sea­son, know that the rushing at­tack is the key to the Notre Dame offense. If they are to stop this juggernaut, they have to contain the run. For this reason, they will stack the line like other teams have. 
Thus, if the receivers can continue to make opposing defenses pay for play one-on­one coverage, the Irish should roll up yardage and points like there is no tomorrow. 
-Tim McConn 

••• fALCONS ON THE OFFENSIVE 
The Observer/Mike Ruma 

Although Air Force is recognized for its No. 2 ranked running game, the Notre Dame secondary, led by Jarvis Edison {left) and Allen Rossum will be weary of the underrated arm of quarterback Beau Morgan. 
have to come out and take Singleton leads the nation in charge and win the battle up kickoff returns with a 30.7 front." average, an area the Irish 
The reason that the Falcons haven't exactly covered in have scored 80 percent of the recent games. time within the red zone runs The bottom line rests in the deeper than Morgan though. wild Falcon running operation. Tailback Nakia Addison has If the Irish stifle Morgan's given the Irish fits in the last option early enough, he will be two years, but Andre Johnson forced to the air, and everybody is the go-to man this year, hav­knows that Falcons cannot fly ing rushed for 327 yards and against the Irish. five touchdowns. 
Meanwhile, sophomore Jemal -T. Ryan Kennedy 
. . 
amassed over1000 totalyards·thi~ sea­SQp. Bu,the ~t:m't.~~e ~{'!fiAGdefell$eon$atur~ay. P:<:)wlus:'is playmg the bestfoollian ofhis career.·· 
. . 
····,·.·.·.·.··
.................. 
' :;::. 


Aildre Johmmn.averag~s 10 yards per carry aild has scored five times. However, Denson, Edwards, I<inder:and FarmerareiJ.'ct exactly chopped liver. 
.. . . . . . . .. . 
lliiE~Jla~~ke1rs Chfi$ 'Pizzi1(S2 t~klesl andLee ••(47) head ..il.·solid unit.· However,:cobbins. ··'''1¥ttiltm!'"BetrY·''anrd. Nlinot}~e rti6re.tlia.n·solid. 
(jiving up 50 mort} yards· per game than the Irish, the Falcons have no returning starters from last y~ar. :J)eke.(:oope~~s emergence bolsters ND's Ullit. 
.,·.:· 
....:.: :--:·· 
.
• 

Jamal $ingle~onayerages 30 yards per return, but Air Force has struggled with place kicking..·.. · Rossmn.. Denso~ are always a threat to break one. 
·-... . . . ... 
.... CGacbing 

.~·. 
·,·,·.··)·,·.-!}.·.:·

:·. ;:: ··:'·~·~·:::.: ·:: ':' .. 
FiSher DeBerry co~istellt1y gets 
tlrtiiilost out ofhis 
·• ;tlt.lent everyyeal~ RQltt ha.~ .gone haek to•cthe basics .. and back to winJiing. · 
. ..... . .. 
. . .

..•...•....•..··· ... ··, ..
·.·.·.· 

. .. . 
•'•': 
'·· 

·:: :;:~~Overall 
.. .:--. .., ·. : ·:···. 
Althot1gji tlf~:)tlsh ·. do~inate thern on paper. the .Falco·Il;$: a:x:El-im• i:tltell!KePt .andtundamentally Sou.nd tootball.·tea.iib~. 131.lt even.that wcm't·make up 

page 6 The Irish Extra • THE INSIGHT Friday, October 18, 1996 
• IRISH INSIGHT 

Vans, grades -Blarney! 
Q
uietly it approaches in the distance. Without warning and certainly lack­ing a routine time frame, it rambles do North Quad. It has only one desti­
nation in mind. The dining hall. 
As it gets closer, everyone becomes aware of just what is about to happen. You knew something was missing while digesting the meatless ribs. No 

longer will you have to Joe Villinski swallow one more bite 
Associate Sports 
without your faithful Ed" dining companion. Itor What else can create a buzz like this? 
Surely not Student Activities' plan to destroy a jet fighter at Stonehenge as part of their rally cry to "Bombard Air Force." 
No, the only form of transportation gen­erating this type of excitement on campus is the Observer van. Once this sleek auto­mobile pulls up to the front door, it is sur­rounded faster than Jenny McCarthy at a Notre Dame pep rally. That's not saying much, but what would life be like without the Observer? 
Don't answer that. It is my life. 
That's just the first of a few random thoughts as the Irish begin the service academy portion of their schedule. 
-For all the flack Hon Powlus has received during his career at Notre Dame, he deserves much credit for understand­ing his role. This idea was no more apparent than in last week's drubbing of Washington. 
The senior quarterback threw only 12 times and spent a majority of his time making sure Autry Denson or Handy Kinder had a firm grip on the hand-off. For the Irish to win, Powlus knows he doesn't have to do it all or even most of it. In fact, Powlus conveyed these exact thoughl'i to head coach Lou Holtz. 
"I say to Hon, what do you suggest," Holtz said, "and he'd say, I suggest 24, I 

suggest 60 (running plays). It wasn't like 
Ron was suggesting to throw the ball." 
Nor was he worried about impressing 
NFL scouts or anything else. Powlus has 
repeatedly said he'll do anything to win 
and if winning entails running the ball, so 
be it. 

"I was asking them to run the ball," Powlus said. "When we run the ball, I'm on the field. I'm as much a part of that as anybody else. If we win games, I don't care how many times I throw the ball." 
True leaders never do. -What the hell was the Blarney offense anyway? 
Whatever it was, it's now history. It may still exist in some diluted form, but the "new" plan of allowing the offensive line to pound on their opponents has won out. 
Holtz realizes there's no reason to implement strategies with cheesy names. 
"I can second guess myself," Holtz said. "And I felt so bad after Ohio State because our weaknesses were revealed. What we needed to do was just go back and play football the way we can and not try to outsmart anybody. We just need to run basic offense and if they do this, you plug this in and we stop them like we always have." 
This time it can be called Notre Dame Football. 
-On a personal note, I was accosted by several friends and strangers Monday regarding the Observer's graded position analysis. I am open to criticism, seeing I dish it out myself, but these people believed the GPA of 3.7 was too high for the Washington game. 
One person said, "You gave the running backs an A. What about the fumbles." 
I've gotten C's on tests before and still managed to pull an A in the class. The first letter in the alphabet is not always a symbol of perfection. 
I know the Irish are constantly criti­cized, but give them their due when they deserve it. 

• THE IRISH EXTRA STAFF 
Editor: Tim Sherman Associate Editors: Dave Treacy and Joe Villinski Assistant Editors: Dylan 
Barmmer and Mike Day Graphic Design: Chris Mullins Statistician: Jim Belden Production: Tara Grieshop 



EXPRESS 


The place to go for ALL your NOTRE DAME sportswear & accessories! 
How on sale: Commemorative Shamrock Classic Merchandise 
IRISH  Friday  12noon •9pm  
EXPRESS  Saturday  8am· 9pm 
HOURS  Sunday  9am .J pm  

LaFortune Student Center (219)631-8128 
We accept VISA, MasterCard and Discover 




17. LSU 4-1 


18. Brigham Young 5-1 19. California 5-0 20. Virginia 4-1 
21 . Kansas State 5-1 
22. Georgia Tech 4-1 23. Wyoming 7-0 

~24. Utah 5-t 25. Washington 3-2 

various teams "this year's "Northwestern". Any squad who showed any indication of drastically improving and sur­prising the world received the label. 
514 12 487 19 451 21 409 20 379 22 317 23 264 24 
Itt -­104 16 
OTHERS RECEIVING VOTES: Southern Miss 93. Virginia Tech 70, Syracuse 23, Wisconsin 21, Iowa 18, Southern Cal 17, Army 13, Washington St 9, Kansas 7, Texas Tech 7, Navy 3, San Diego St 3 
CJM 


ABC* Ohio State at Purdue UCLA at Washington Georgia Tech at Clemson Nebraska at Texas Tech 
CBS Auburn at Florida 
ESPN 
*regional coverage, check your local the Tigers pulled the upset, but it will take a bit more this sea­son, as the "Fun and Gun" offense has been close to unstoppable. 

Danny Wuerffel masterfully directs the Gator attack, while Takeo Spikes and Marcellus Mostella lead the AU defense. 
On the other side of the ball, athletic Dameyune Craig spear­heads a solid Tiger attack. UF' strong safety Lawrence Wright has a nose for the ball. 
UF's hot-tempered Steve Spurrier has had his problems against the Bowden Clan. However, with two straight wins over Terry and Bobby, his already-immense ego must be growing even more. 
This is Florida's last real test before a potentially epic battle against Sunshine State brethren Florida State. 
USC at #4 Arizona State 
At the start of the 1996 sea­son, it was a popular trend among sportswriters to label 
Halfway through the season, Arizona State is the leading contender for the "Northwestern" title. A September 21st shut-out of top­ranked Nebraska is at the top of their resume. Tomorrow, though, the Sun Devils face their toughest test since the 'Huskers as they square of against the unranked yet tal­ented Trojans of Southern California. 
Though the Devils used a sti­fling defense to pull their early upset, it is the Jake Plummer­led offense that grabs the head­lines. PI ummer, one of the nation's top quarterbacks, has a deep and talented receiver corp, led by Keith Poole. 
USC's offense, on the other hand, is still experiencing some growing pains. John Robinson's charges have already lost twice this season but the Trojans still have the Pac-10 crown and a Rose Bowl berth to shoot for. They may not after leaving Tempe. 
mate shot to claim the national title. 
A swarming defense and an Ahman Green-led bevy of backs give Tom Osborne hope. 
The Red Raiders have disap­pointed some thus far but pos­sess outstanding skill position players. 
Running back Byron Hanspard is one of the nation's best-kept secrets, while dan­gerous signalcaller Zebbie Lethridge can beat you with the run or pass. 
UCLA at #25 Washington 
UCLA has been close on some upset bids this season (Tennessee, ASU) but have· come up short. They have another shot against the Huskies. 
Husky quartebacks Brock Huard (slight concussion vs. Notre Dame) and Shane Fortney (ankle injury) have not been 100%, nor has tailback Rashann Shehee. Coach Jim Lambright won't let UW letup. 


The Observer/Mike Ruma Tailback Pepe Pearson (29) and Ohio State, who were nearly upset by Wisconsin last weekend, will travel to Purdue on Saturday. 
The Observer/Mike Ruma 

Tailback Rashaan Shehee (1) will need to step up as the Huskies try to bounce back against UCLA. 
The Peerless Prognosticators 


Notre Dame Notre Dame Florida Florida usc Arizona St. Nebraska Nebraska 
Tim Sherman Dave Treacy 
Washington 
Associate Sports UCLA ditor Editor Record: 17-8 Record: 18-7 
~arts 

Notre Dame Notre Dame Florida 
Auburn 
usc usc 
Nebraska Nebraska 

Dylan Barmmer
Washington Assistant Sports UCLA Editor Record: 20-5 


I -­
1 
I 
-

• 

The Hammes NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE 
~~on the campus,, 
Call for our illustrated catalog 1-219-631-6316 Open Monday-Saturday, 9am-5pm 
Special Hours Football Weekends! Friday 9am-7pm; Saturday 8am-6pm 




