
~~~----~ 
Friday, March 29, 1996 • Vol. XXVII No. 115 THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Pokorny to lead SMC Class of '97 
Hy LORI ALLEN Saint Mary's News Editor 
Saint Mary's College juniors got a chance to revisit the polls yesterday to votiJ for senior class oflice dun to a penalty of the Pokorny ticket by the Board of Goverance Elections Committee. The .folie Pokorny tieket. including Laura Loh as Vice­
Adminstrators
Living 'single' 
note positive qualities held 
Controversy surrounding proposed co-residentiality by co-ed halls 
By MATTHEW LOUGHRAN
sparks parental interest 
News Writer 
Single-sex dorms are the exeeption rather than the rule at major Catholic uniwr­sities across the country. Many institutions, among them Boston College, College of the lloly Cross and Catholic University. have long-stand­
One common 
ing co-residentiality polieies. 
opinion among "We have had co-ed dormsstudents is that for 26 years, and we have no
co-residentiality would provide a regrets," said Hobert much-needed Capalbo, director of Student improvement in Housing at Boston College, "I gender relations believe that the poliey reflects 
on campus. 
what students are looking for in a college experience." Many administrators re­
By BILL CONNOLLY ity to the Board of Trustees, many 
ported positive effects from
Assistant News Editor parents are letting their voices be 
the programs. "(Co-residen­heard. 
C
tiality) has a good socializing o-residentiality at Notre Dame is Most parents are quick to note that effect on men, it makes theonce again a hot topic due to the single-sex dorms were the primary atmosphere a lot less oppres­Campus Life Council's proposed reason their child chose to attend the 
sively competitive," said
model and resolution for co-residen­University. However. a surprising 
Robert Friday, vice president
tiality whieh was rejected by Vice number of parents did not indude co­of Student Life at Catholic
President of Student Affairs Patricia residentiality as a faetor when decid­
University. Other positive
O'Hara. The voices which have not ing to send their child to Notre Dame. 
effects includfl better-kept
been publicly heard are those of the For instance, Ed O'Brien, father of halls and less damage done topeople who pay the tuition bill for senior Tom O'Brien, did not take resi­the halls themselves. 
most undergraduates: their parents. dence hall status into account. The With the news that the CLC may present a resolution on co-residential-see CO-RES I page 4 see DORMS I page 6 
p1'1~ s i d ~~ n t. Karyn Connolly as St~eretary and Kalin Ellsworth as Treasurer. were penal­iznd for handing out thtdr platform on 8 l/2"x II" paper. The penalty resulted in a 15 peremll rnduetion of the Pokorny tieket's votes. which eaust~d the runol'f. 
The runoff eleetion took place all day yes­terday during brflak­fast. lunch and dinner 
9.ttSAINT MA~
ELECTION 
Class of 1997 Runoff Results 
Korte-36% 
Pokorny-52% (after 15% deduction) 
Abstained-2.8% 

in the dining hall. and 64% of the junior elass voted. 
Thr. 15 pnreent reduetion again applied, howev­er. in order to win in a runoff elP.etion, a ticket nemls only tlw greater amount of raw votes. 
Tlw Pokorny tieket, who ran under the campaign slogan "329 reasons to vote for us" (citing all of tim nanws of the junior class) captured 52% of the junior dass votr.s. "We are absolutely ecstatic to be represtmling the class of 1997 next year," said presidnnt-nlnet .Jolie Pokorny. 
Tlw Anrw Korte tieket, with Carolyn Deppisch as Virn-Presidt!llt, Courtney McEvers as Secretary. 
see RUN-OFFS I page 6 

Birch: Ad-Hoc report Hall displays SMC history exhibit 
ByBERNADETTEPAMPUCH News Writer 
should be approved 
make Notre Dame into a col­The welcome brochure forLobbyist pledges lege community where mem­Bertrand Hall's Community bers would be free from History Room describes it as afull support for harassmtmt and prejudice. special place "where you can "If !University administra­spend a few minutes, a few
recommendations tors! adopt the recommenda­hours, or a few days." tions of this committfle, lthey] Here. on the fifth floor of one
Hy HRAD PRENDERGAST will be taking a hopeful step of the oldest buildings on Saint 
Nt"w~ Edi1or 
toward creating a University Mary's campus. the college has that embodies the best values managed to bring together
As the advent of the Universi­
of this country and the truest pieces of its history stretching
ty's rnsponst~ to the Ad lloe 
principles of the Christian tnt­back to before the Civil War. 
CommiUIH~ on (;ay and Lesbian clition." Birch said. "It is the Sister M. Campion, assistant
St udI' n t NIHHI s r e po r t a p ­
morally right thing to do." archivist and historian for the
proaclws. national lesbian 
Bireh. exr.cutive director of collection, said that the historypolitieal ltmder Elizabeth Bireh 
the Washington D.C.-based of the College stretches back was on campus last night to Human Hights Campaign even further.
lmul her full support to the bers of the French Church to Saint Mary's found its start 
(IIHC). the largest gay and les­"It all started baek in France
committee's recommendations. the Americas in seareh of new when four young French 
bian lobbyist group in the na­after the Freneh Hevolution in
Calling the report "stunning grounds in which to form acad­women were inducted into the 
tion. has attracted widespread 1789," she said, referring to the
and wondnrful," Birch said that emies. clinics, colleges and 
circumstances that sent mem­
the rncomnwndations would parochial schools. 
see BIRCH I page 6 see HALL I page 8 
Despite threat of terrorism, students remain safe 

Hditor's Note: This is the last the University's International in a two-part series examining Study Program. tlw issues Notre Dame students "Thn institute where the stu­fnrt! u•lwn they sltldy abroad. dnnts rnside is quite safe," said 
Thomas Bogenschild, director By GWENDOLYN NORGLE of the Program. who said that As><>< i.llt' News Fdiwr his focus on the safety of Notre 
Dame students has been con­
With tlw int:reasml number of centrated on London and the tt~rrorist attacks that have Middle East. ocrurrnd in Europe and the When four suieide bombings Middle l·:ast in recent weeks recently occurrP.d throughout has nmw a gn~atr.r concern for Israel. more than 60 people 
tlw saft~ty of Notre Dame stu­w11re killed in a nine-day peri­cltmts abroad. od. 
But whiln tlwse concerns are But despite these attaeks. justified due to tlw reported Notre Dame students in violenc:e, there is no need to Jerusalem are safe, according worry about the University's to Bogensehild. 
own overseas, according to Studr.nts have identification both students and direetors of eards to get in and out of the 
the safety of its students, the Jerusalem for the semester Notre Dame International Study agrees that the University's stu­
Obstacles 

Program knows the importance dents are not in danger. The of communication with its Tantur Ecumenical building,
Abroad 
branches. where the Notre Dame students "We talk with the local direc­are lodged, is quite safe, Lewis
Part 2 of 2 
tors there on a day-by-day told The South Bend Tribune. basis," he said of the study pro­However, recently, the studentsfaeility, whieh is "closely super­
gram in Jerusalem. During have been confined to camps
vised," said Bogenschild, who 
Spring Break. the program and to their residential area,
added that when it comes to the 
directors had an "up-to-date which is on the outskirts of
safety of the students, he and 
consultation" with the local Jerusalem near the West Bankthe other directors are more heads of the program in border, when in the past. they
concerned with their travel out­
.Jerusalem. made one or two wtw.ldy tripsside the living quarters. 
In addition, Bogr.nschild into downtown Jerusalem.
The Notre Dame students in 
added, "I am in very closfl con­Safety measures have alsoJerusalem do not use any pub­
tact with Notre Dame faeulty been strict for Notre Dame stu­
lie transportation; the 
who have expertise in the dents in Enr,land, according toUniversity provides a private Middle East." the Director of Notre Dame'svehiele for them. 
Brian Lewis. a Notre Dame
When it comes to maintaining 
theology major studying in see SAFE I page 4 

page 2 The Observer • INSIDE Friday, March 29, 1996 
• iNSIDE COLUMN 
In Praise of Humanistic Studies 
"I said 'Humanistic Studies."' 
I almost always have to repeat it when people ask me about my major. It's called Humanistic Studies, or BUST for short, and majoring in it is probably one of the best decisions I've made since I've been here. 
With its pillars of lit­erature, philosophy, his­tory, religion, and art appreciation, the HUST program aims to educate the whole person. It strives to develop in every student superior skills in critical, creative thinking, reading, writing, and speaking. It's similar to Notre Dame's PLS major, studies which highlight the importance and relevance of the liberal arts. 
And what is the purpose of a liberal arts col­lege? I think it should be to educate us in those arts. The liberal arts enlarge our in­tellectual horizons, refine our tastes, develop our understanding of ourselves and others, and give us a context for further learning. This kind of education we're receiving as HUST majors can continue throughout our whole lives. 
Now that we are versed in the works of clas­sical writers and thinkers like Virgil, Dante, Erasmus, Freud, and Voltaire,we have a springboard from which to continue our read­ing and reasoning styles. 
But being a BUST major does present some predicaments. Often when l am asked what I will do when I graduate, I cannot answer with one particular career as accounting or archi­tecture or pre-med majors might do. Instead of preparing us for any one thing, HUST pre­pares us for anything. 
When I look at the jobs held by graduates of the college who majored in BUST, the ca­reer variation is overwhelming. In skimming only one page of BUST grads, I encountered everything from lawyers to doctors to admin­istrators and museum curators. 
To major in HUST alone is challenging, but many students opt to couple BUST with an­other major. In doing so, those students bring in many insights from their respective majors. And one of the most important things this major has taught me is to respect the thoughts and opinions of my peers. 
As a BUST major, I come out of a day of classes knowing at least two new words, a new geographical tidbit, and I've probably been exposed to at least two new ideas or cul­tures I had never before considered. 
A liberal arts college offers many ways to pursue those arts. Vergerius said, "We con­sider those studies liberal which are worthy of a free man, those studies by which we attain and practice virtue and wisdom; that educa­tion which calls the forth, trains, and develops those highest gifts of body and of mind which ennoble men." And Humanistic Studies, in my opinion, is one of the best ways to pursue the liberal arts and to broaden your mind. 
I urge you underclasswomen ,especially, to consider HUST as a major or to compliment a major you're already pursuing. The skills you'll acquire and sharpen are invaluable. And the peers and professors you come to know and respect are beyond reproach. 
And when people ask you what you will be doing with a HUST major upon graduation, you can tell them, "Anything I want." 
HUST can take you anywhere. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 



News Heather Cocks Matthew Loughran 
Spons Brian Reinthaler Jim Belden 

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday excep[ during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of rhe Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
Graphics Brian Blank Production Belle Bautista Melissa DeRosa Lab Tech Katie Kroener 

• Wm1w Ar A Gu~cE 
Five U.S. students die when tour bus overturns in India 

NEW DELHI, India 
A bus carrying a U.S. university tour group rolled into a ditch on the way to the Taj Mahal today, killing five Ameri­cans, the U.S. Embassy said. 
The embassy said four students were hospitalized. A. newspaper said at least 18 students were injured but the report could not be immediately confirmed. 
The bus overturned in the ditch as it was trying to pass another vehicle. The Indian bus driver and a tour guide also were killed in the accident in northern India. 
There were 30 people on the bus ­27 Americans, the Indian guide and two Indian drivers. 
near Bhimnagar, a village 15 miles north of Agra, where the 17th century monument to love is located. 
In Agra, Dr. Munish Gupta said four students were in stable condition in his private Parekh Nursing Home. Three had fractured limbs and one had head injuries, he said. 
Rescuers had to slice off the roof of the bus, lying on its side, to reach passep.gers, according to the Amar Ujala, a newspaper published in Agra. The newspaper quoted witnesses as saying the bus was going too fast and the driver lost control on a bend. 
It said at least 18 students were injured. 
Police said the bus was coming from New Delhi, 125 
Wife tells of life with Arafat 
GAZA CITY, Gaza Strip 
Suha Arafat threw back her head and laughed heartily when asked whether her husband, Yasser Arafat, sings nursery rhymes to his 8-month-old daughter, Zahwa. "No, he whistles to her," she said. "I tell him, 'Talk to her. Don't whistle.' But he doesn't listen."' Relaxing at the couple's villa in Gaza City, Mrs. Arafat spoke with The 

Associated Press about the challenges she faces as the wife of one of the world's most controversial leaders ­and as a Westernized woman living in a male-dominated community that thrives on gossip. "There's a lot of stress around me. I do one hour of aerobics every day to release the tensions," she said. adding with a twinkle in her brown eyes: "Thank God for (beauty) creams. They hide the bags under my eyes." One thing Mrs. Arafat said she will not try to change is her husband's dress, even though some critics have said it was time the Palestinian leader traded his military-style khaki jackets for civilian suits. 
Workers treat wolves with respect 
BATTLE GROUND, Ind. 
Apollo, a black, 90-pound wolf puppy, greets his 
human visitors with a big, sloppy kiss. But if his 9­
month-old's friendliness belies the image of a "big, bad 
wolf," staff members at the Wolf Park, a 75-acre pre­
serve north of Lafayette, know better. They're con­
cerned, for instance, about the people who purchase 
wolf-dog hybrids. "We're seeing a real upsurge in pri­
vate wolf ownership and wolf hybrids," said Gary 
Kyrouac, the park's managing director. "Wolves are not 
things we'd recommend people getting into," he said. 
"But if they do, we tell them what they may be giving up. 
It could be their life." Kyrouac recalls the time he 
scratched lead male wolf Chinook on the belly too long 
and Chinook bit him on the side. Kyrouac admits he 
didn't pay enough attention to the wolrs warnings that 
he'd had enough petting. 


The AccuWeather®forecast for noon, Friday, March 29. 
Unes separate high temperature zones for the day. 
~...a.....a....~ 
COLD WARM STATIONARY 
@ 1996 AccuWeather, Inc. 

Hessui. B ES'J [TIJ EZJ [2] § i') ~), u 
HJGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY 
Vta ASSDCJSted Press 
Atlanta 73 53 Dallas 73 56 New Orleans 76 62 Baltimore 59 34 Jason, WV 59 24 New York 51 33 Boston 45 27 Los Angeles 69 55 Philadelphia 57 30 Calgary 12 0 Miami 84 72 Phoenix 81 53 Chicago 55 37 Minneapolis 39 31 St. Louis 60 47 
miles north of Agra. It was part of a larger group of American college stu­dents traveling to the Taj Mahal in two buses. The second bus, carrying 31 peo­ple, continued to the monument, unaware of the accident, the newspaper said. 
Ken Service, a spokesman for the University of Pittsburgh, said the stu­dents were part the university's Semester at Sea program, for which they received college credit. 
The group had traveled to India earli­er this month by ship to the southern city of Madras, an embassy official said, speaking on condition of anonymity. They apparently were traveling in a pri­vate buses. 
Most flew back today to Madras, from where their ship sails Friday to Ho Chi Minh City, Vietnam. 
"We are in shock," was all one student would say. 
The dead students were identified as Cherese Laulhere of Long Beach, Calif.; Jennifer Druck, of Del Mar, Calif.; Sarah Schewe of Amherst. Mass.; and Virginia Amato of Metairie, La. Service identified the fifth victim as John Wilson, of Pittsburgh, the husband of an educator at the University of Pittsburgh. 
Schewe, 20, was a student at Georgetown University, said a spokeswoman for the University of Massachusetts. It was not immediately known where the other victims were studying. 
Sperm 'blinded' by birth control 
RALEIGH, N.C. 

Scientists say it would be optimistic to suggest that daily birth control pills for men are just around the cor­ner, but researchers agree they are definitely on the horizon. Projects at North Carolina State University, Research Triangle Institute, Duke University and other locations are unlocking, one by one, the mysteries of the male reproductive system. "l think it's time for men to be in control of their own destiny and it gives the woman a chance to get a break from the responsibility," said Dr. Patricia Fail, head biologist on a male contraceptive pro­ject at the Research Triangle Institute. Unlike birth con­trol pills for women. drugs being investigated at Research Triangle Institute and North Carolina State do not rely on hormones to control fertility. That will spare men many of the side effects associated with birth.control in women and ensure that the contraceptives do not affect libido or sexual function. The approaches to male contraception differ dramatically. Dr. Joseph Hall, a biochemist and the lead investigator on the North Carolina State project, wants to "blind" sperm. Fail wants to eliminate it. 
Cat and a hot tin bat 
EAST BEHNARD. Texas 

Four high school baseball players charged with beat­ing a cat to death were kicked· off their team. East Bernard Independent School District Superintendent Nancy McNeal decided to ban the youths after they were arrested on animal cruelty charges Wednesday. "Based on the serious nature of this offense, the four who were involved in the killing of the cat will be removed from the baseball team for the remainder of this season," McNeal said. The teen-agers signed statements admitting they killed the tabby on March 16. Ryan Walters. Britt Sensat and Danny Crane, all 17, and a 16-year-old juvenile were charged with the Class A misdemeanor and released on personal recognizance bonds. If convicted, they would face up to a year in jail and a $4,000 line. The cat was an adopted pet of sorts at Koym Field, the park used by the East Bernard High School team. 
,--------~-------------------~~------~---------~~----~--­
-------------------. 
hiday, March 29, 1996 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
----~~--~~========~~~~~~~~ 
SMC survey probes issue of smoking in dining hall 
By CARRIE KOONTZ 
New' Writer 
In a survey given last week, approximately two-thirds of Saint Mary's students polled stated that they were in favor of a completely non-smoking envi­ronnwnt in the dining hall. 
This issue surfaeed as a result of an dining hall employee sur­vny. The rnsults showed that smoking in the dining hall was hotlwrsonw to many employees. In addition, the dining hall had n~eeived comment cards llXpn~ssing negative eomnwnts about smoking. 
After all of this was taken into account, it was deeidt~d that stu­dl;nts should be q unstionnd to gatlwr information coneerning this issue. 
In the survny, it was proposed that thn smoking section be movlld to thll North Wedge room as opposnd to the Grill Bar ama wlwnl it currently exists. Not all parties involved are eon­vinced that this is the best solu­tion. "Moving the smoking see­lion to the North Wt~dge room will he Vllry confusing for all involved. The North Wedge room is often reserved," dining hall manager Kevin Kerwin said. 
Student reaction has been mixed. Some students see no reason for any change at all. "The present smoking situation is convenient for both smokers and non smokers," stated sophomore Monica Caravia. 
A total of 279 students replied to the survey -179 were in favor of a completely non smok­ing environment, while 93 stu­dents voted to maintain a smok­ing section in the dining hall. 
The dining hall employees and other students against smoking in the dining hall. Jed by lirsl year student and dining hall employee Amber Fraiser, stated that this survey was just the lirst step. Fraiser is work­ing with Student Body President Sarah Sullivan and the Board of Governanee on a proposal in the hope of ultimately banning all smoking from the faeility. 
"It will be a long time before this happens. Hight now we are laking little steps in working to move the section." Fraiser said. 
./.AIRPORT 
. STORAGE 
CALL 256-3044 
Discount Plans Available for 6 Month & Yearly Rental Corner of Mayflower 
f.r Edison Roads 
Ask for: 

•. • 'factory .o~;cc::mt•tc~"Bill Stewart • Deferred ID...,,:-­
Asst. Sales Mgr. 
Students 

SMART OPTIONS FOR CAREER OPPORTUNITIES City Staffing, specializing in temporary and permanent placement, deals with a variety of Chicago's most prestigious companies. 
CALL US TO SET UP AN APPOINTMENT THAT WILL MAKE A DIFFERENCE! 
312-346-3400 


ND society co-hosts conference 
By DAVE HARTUNG 
News Writer 
Over 400 students and facul­
ty from around the midwest · will attend the annual confer­ence of Beta Alpha Psi, a national honorary accounting 
rraternity. 
Beta Sigma, the Notre Dame 
chapter of the organization, 
will be co-hosting the event 
with members from Ball State 
and Bowling Green 
Universities. The conference 
marks the first time in 10 years 
that Beta Alpha Psi has elected 
to hold the meeting on a col· 
lege campus. 
Those in attendance include 
375 students and 35 faculty 
members from 40 chapters 
that make up the midwest re­
gion of the fraternity. The pro­
gram, entitled ''Accounting: A 
Changing Environment," be­
gins Friday with an afternoon 
leadership conference, a pre­
lude to Saturday's main lecture 
schedule. Friday night the 
group will travel to the College Football Hall of Fame, which has been rented out for the oc­casion. 
The opening speaker Satur­day morning will be head foot­ball coach Lou Holtz, who be­gins the eonferenee at 9 a.m. He will be followed by Michael Henning, chairman and CEO of' Ernst and Young International, a member of the Big Six ac­counting companies. Wrapping up the conference is Ronald Cohen, chairman of the Ameri­can Institute of Certified Public Accountants. 
Throughout the day there will be papers presented by 21 of the 40 chapters. They are all student written and present­ed, with technical topics rang­ing from taxes to auditing. In addition, there will be four ses­sions presented by students on individual chapter activities. 
Commenting on the fact that this is the first time in ten years that the conferenee will he held on a college campus, Beta 
McNeill: Weigert brings 'vision' to new position 
Special to The Observer 
Kathleen Maas Weigert, as­sociate professional speeialist, faculty liaison and academic co­ordinator at the Center for So­cial Concerns, was appointed to a newly established position. associate director of academic affairs and researeh, aceording to Don McNeill, executive direc­tor of the eenter. 
"In this new position, her 
vision and energy will be focused on helping the center and Notre Dame to network and share present and future resources and innovative pro­grams with other renowned institutions of higher edueation." said McNeill of Weigert. 
A member of the faeulty sinee 1974, Weigert is an assoeiate professor in American Studies and a fellow in Kroc Institute for International Peace Studies. 
·We~:~:.. ~;,~~ialBal~. }u'
S~ccl {~ Sour CJliLJ~cn . 
Chinese Cuisine 
ON CAMPUS Graduation Weekend SPECIAL May 16-19, 1996 
COME EARLY; STAY LATE; SAME PRICE! 
art Parish Center has rooms available for your parents. Weekend cost is $40.00 per parent, whether you stay two, three, or four nights-. Rooms are available Thursday, Friday, Saturday and Sunday. 
For Reservations, call219-631-7512 
L:~I·~ortune 
Center 
Global Gifts 
1\f;Jrcll :L7,2JJ,Z!J 
IIUII-(JI'Ofit
/Ju!lt's !Juw-lipw 

Sigma Chapter President John Potter said that "it is a great honor for such a unique, stu­dent driven event to be held here at Notre Dame. We are especially proud to have speak­ers that are so well known and establishAd in our field." 
"This will bB an excellent ehance for the University to have some exposure for its business and aeeounting pro­grams," added Potter, who is also the Midwest Regional Chairman. "Our accounting program is ranked fifth In the nation, and this is a big oppor­tunity to show our facilities to other members of our organi­zation." 
James Wittenbach, professor of accounting and faculty advi­sor for the Notre Dame Chap­ter, commented that Notre Dame etm help the conferenee as well, saying "The conference is usually held in a large city, but I think having it at Notre Dame creates a draw that you don't get anywhere else." 
Rally targets issues, rights 
of 'womyn' 
Observer Staff Report 
HApresentatives from the Women's Hesource Center, the gender studies program. Amnesty International's eam­pus chapter, tlw athletie de­partment and Gays and Les­bians of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College will be among the speakers at tonight's "Womyn's Solidarity March." 
The rally, which begins at 7 
p.m. at the Fieldhouse Mall. will include discussion of women's issues such as the need for a women's eenter on campus, the ordination of women in the Catholic Chureh, inequalities in the athletic department be­tween men and women, rape. and the apparent lack of fund­ing for the gender studies pro­gram. aecording to Sarah Cor­son, an organizer of the event. 
The rally will also offer an open-microphone format for individuals who also wish to add to the diseussion. "We hope that feminists -which certainly includes men -will feel opAn to speak about these issues," she said. "We're trying to eonquer apathy toward women's issues, building a eoalition between Saint Mary's and Notre Dame women." 
Following the speak out. a eandlelight mareh will lead par­ticipants to 304 llaggar College Center at Saint Mary's, where musical entertainment and refreshments will be provided. 
"Men are strongly eneour­aged to come," Corson said. The events are expected to eonclude at around 10 p.m. 
· Anyone interested in applying for 
Station Manager ofWSND 

must complete an application by Tuesday 4/2 with Student Activities. Applications can be picked up at the Student Activities Office. 
Questions call Charlie@ 273-8667 

Friday, March 29, 1996 
page 4 The Observer· CAMPUS NEWS 
Co-Res 
continued from page 1 
leading issue for O'Brien was the superior academic msources of Notre Dame. 
However. O'Brien believes that "The current residential system provides a positive, unique character for the school." 
.Joe Schramm. father of sophomore .Jason Schramm, agrees with O'Brien. "This sys­tem allows students to build lasting friendships while at the same time keeping them fo­cused on their studies." 
Yet, when asked if he was in favor of a form of co­residentiality at Notre Dame. Sehrarnrn commented that he hoped the University would institute co-residentiality at some dorms to "promote undflrstanding of the 'real world."' 
O'Brien also believes the 

University should look into co­
residentiality. 'They should at 
least investigatfl making it an 
option for upperclass students 
who desire it." 
However, a majority of the 

parents talked to did not 
believe co-ed dorms would be 
positive for Notre Dame. Mary 
Cronley. mother of freshman 
Torn Cronley. is against co­
residentiality at Notre Dame 
bflcause it would take away 
from the unique charaeter that 
both O'Brien and Schramm 
believe the University possess­
es. 
"Single-sex dorms give kids 

more freedom to work and live 
at a stage in life where they 
are still developing toward 
being mature." 
Unlike O'Brien and 

Schramm. Cronley believes 
that "The current residential 
system is important to main­
taining tradition at Notre 
Damfl. It provides a dorm unity 
which translates into a earn­
pus-wide unity unparalleled by 
othflr universities." 
Safe 
continued from page 1 

London Program Anastasia Gutting. 
Gulling explained that the University has a "two-pronged approach" to teaching safety methods to its students study­ing in London: (1) initial assessment and (2) ongoing action. In this approach, sources at the U.S. Embassy and the British local police authority, the London Metro police, offer information for the Notre Dame students. Notre Dame also provides additional guidance. 
One point the London Program stresses to its stu­dents, Gutting said, is that "if you're in a potentially danger­ous situation, calmly and quickly follow the instruc­tions." The Program also advises the students to avoid areas that are likely targets. 
For example, she said, 
attacks like the recent IRA 
bombings, are geared toward 
"economic disruption rather 
than mass destruction." Thus, 
they are usually aimed at 
financial districts. Gutting 
stressed the importance of 
"being conscious of the nature 
of that threat in deciding how to implement" a plan of pre­caution. 
In reference to these attacks, Gutting noted that two bombs exploded in London right before the Notre Dame stu­dents went on break in February, and they occurred in an area "where students would not be." A third bomb exploded when students were off traveling over break, she added 
According to Gutting, extra precautions are taken at par­ticular times. ror example, during the Gulf War, when Americans and Brits were anticipated as being specific t&rgets, students were advised on how to dress to play down ther Americanism. In addition, guards patrolled the students' residential quarters, and cam­eras were used to increase the security of the building. 
No students have gone home 
as a result of the recent vio­
lence, Gutting added. And, 
according to the head of the 
Program in London, "things 
have quieted down," Gutting 
said. "The students have 
adopted the mode of the 
Brits." 
Notre Dame student Jane 
Nicknish agrees. Though 
Nicknish is studying in London 
through another university, 
she has been directly affected 


The Observer 
is now accepting applications for: 
Circulation Drivers 
Ifyou have 10:00am-1:30pm open for the rest of the year and possibly next year, please submit a resume to Matt Casey at the Observer Office, 3rd Floor LaFortune. 
•leglllrallon • l-6p111 TODAY! •u•rarr Concoune 

fiiDAY: 

• 
DINNa AI SOU1H • 7 &9PM •'RUDY" SAIUIDAY: 

• 
LUNCI AlliE .DDIE 

•IGOI&Ait 
PIACIIG, IPII 

• 
DINNa AI SIEPAII, IPM 

• 
DAIICE AI A.S. C.., 9PII 


SUNDAY: 

• 
MISS, lOAM 


• 
COIITINEIITAL I'EAIFAST IAFOITI.IIAWIM, IIAM 


ACOMPLETE USTING OF EVENTS WilL BE INCLUDED IN YOUK REGISTRATION 
PACKET! 


by the bombings and the bomb threats. 
In February. Nicknish's building was evacuated because of a bomb threat. Two weeks later, she had to leave her classroom and walk down the street when an alarm went off while she was in class. A third time. she had to evacuate the city's subway system when another bomb threat occurred. 
In her school b.uildings. Nicknish added, there are signs warning students not to leave their bags unattended. 
But in comparison to Syracuse. the school under whose program she is study­ing, Notre Dame is "a lot stricter" when it comes to advising students on how take safety measures, she said. The Notre Dame students are "more informed" and aceount­ed for, said Nicknish. who noted the various orientations Notre Dame holds on crime and safety issufls, like pick­pocketing and remaining calm during potential terrorist threats. 

While the directors of the Notre Dame International Study Program are concentrat­ing their efforts on other loca­tions in the University's study abroad program that are more likely to receive terrorist threats. they are still con­cerned with students in branches that arP less likely to be affected, like France. 
"Angers is not an area where we're terribly concerned about terrorist threats." Bogenschild said. Although there is nothing "unwarranted," he sa1d. if the Notre Dame program were centered in Paris, "that would be a different situation." 
When the students leave 
Angfli'S, they file reports with 
local directors so that the 
directors know where the stu­
dents can be located, he 
explained. 


Daily Delivery to Notre Dame and South Bend 
Don't forget to pick up flowers for this weekend's dance! 
1404 N. Ironwood Dr. South Bend, IN 4663 5 
(219) 288..3995 
M..F 7:30..7 Sat 8..6 I Sun Jo..s
• 

•

"All major credit cards accepted" 
CHARGE BY PHONE 
presents: 
SPECIAL FUNKY FRIDAY 
COLLEGE NIGHT 
featuring: 
THE REVEREND FUNK BAND 
(this year's battle of the bands winner) 
Both dance floors open until close with guest Djs playing your favorite booty call, tootsie roll, hip hop, and old school music between band breaks. 
Admission restricted to 21 and over with proper ID. Free admission if it's your birthday plus a birthday treat. 
$3.00 cover with student ID, $5.00 cover without *save $2.00 with this ad before 11 PM Fri, March 29 * 
jazzman's provides uniform security officers inside & outside with escorts 
friday, March 29, 1996 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS page 5 
NAACP problems necessitate adaptation 
Organtzatton faces COmpetitiOn SCandal 
' 

and laCk Of funding 
Ry DAVID FREDDOSO 
News Writer 
Tlw National Association for the Advancement of Colored People has come under scrutiny regarding its own internal lwalth and its eontinued relevance in assist­ing the African-American community in r!lcent times, aecording to Dianne Pindnrhughns, a member of the departmflnt of politieal science at thfl University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign. 
Among the major problems within the or­ganization are its "financial and i~~e.rnal organizational crises and recent cnt1c1sms and coneerns about its eonservative political stanee within the broader black communi­ty," slw said. 
On the centennial of the famous Plessy v. Ferguson decision of the United States Supreme Court, Pinderhughes addressed an audienee of students and faeulty in an installment of the Henkels Visiting Lecture Snries on the l'ersisllmee of Segregation in Ameriean Life. She presented her analysis of NMCP by examining its development, its aecomplishments. and its current battles. 
The NMCP was founded in 1909 in order to countnract the harmful effects of the Plnssy decision, which allowed for segrega­tion in public schools. 
The national organization immediately had to !:onfront several new statutns which had been passed in southern states and whieh were designed to indirectly prevent hlaeks from voting, such as the "(;randfather Clause," which compelled anyone whose lineal ancestors had not votnd bdore 1H66 lo lake a rigorous literacy ltlst in order to vote. 
"Tiwse statutes had come into full maturi­ty in the early twentieth century, and had signilkantly changt~d the distribution of par­ticipation in voting," said Pinderhughes. She indieated that this caused 
-! tfm~ ··tt; r.r.U 
~ (j 11rrr. fj '~ f( !' rim~ t.r. r.r.fl fj (j fjj if'i (j \J.~ 
(! tir.;r, ,:_~ l",t:H GfJ rii iri·n )~ 
. ,.: it ;m ,; ~. r. r:dr r; nfii rfi·fi ~-~ tiri"tll 1. ~. r:df Gt:i fii rrjn~~ f'! Hr.'t'-; -rr. t::'r..H 
.f) r1 ni rr; n~,~ 
:;r;;~; {I} r.r.rr Gr; rii in r; ~-~ 


Jf'c r fmr: r(j r.nJI 
~ r f 
1..: r. ~ r r:-r. r 

<5~ ~ifb'tsh Pan 
. · 
· 

The Observer/Brian Hardy 
Dr. Pinderhughes addressed the problemS' 
within the NAACP in a lecture last night. 
disproportionately small numbers of blacks to vote. It was in this extremely hostile environment that the NAACP was founded. and from these beginnings that it went on to play a major role in securing full voting rights for blacks. 
Pinderhughes then spoke of several of the successes which the NAACP has had in its attempt to assist the African American com­munity. The most famous advance was the 1954 Brown decision, which ended segrega­tion in public schools, at which time, says Pinderhughes, the NAACP reached its "high water mark." But this advance was not without negative consequence. 
"That very success meant that the associ­ation began to be pressured by public bodies in terms of its political activities, which were perhaps in violation of its tax-exempt sta­tus," said Pinderhughes. At that point, fed­eral tax law required that the NAACP be ~evered from its litigating arm. the Legal Defense Fund. 
Pinderhughes finally spoke about the NAACP's current problems. She stated that the organization must now battle the resur­gence of conservative civil rights groups. The NAACP has gone from being one of the only major civil rights groups to becoming one of many, and consequently it must com­

-UJ 
... 

• 0 
z 

~~-::§~' • 0~
• cc. 
® 

• Crunchy T~ \ls\.S • Origing/VIanfl7ossed 
pete with other fnendly org.amzatwns for legal resources and donations. Finally, the NAACP has suffered from the loss of !ts Legal D.efense F.und, w~ich, since its official separatiOn, has mcreasmgly sepa­rat~~ itself from the NAACP in its political
pOSitiOnS. 
But these problems are exacerbated b.y organizational difficulties. The last presi­dent of the NAACP was dismissed in a sexu­al harassment and discrimination scandal, and its national governing board is seen as being inefficient and to a great extent closed to new ideas. Many are also dissatisfied with the board's tendency to "emphasize political action as opposed to nationalist themes or economic themes," said Pin­derhughes. 
She indicated that the NAACP will have to adapt its role as it enters the 21st century to assist the African-American community. Among her suggestions for change, she included a greater involvement on the part of African American youth. "It will be a process of communication, action, and help­ing young people understand that there really are important things that the public sector does," she said. The organization's current president, Kweisi Mfume, already plans to appoint a youth director. 
For now, the group's focus will remain the same. "Anti-discrimination policy in voting rights, segregation in elementary. sec· ondary, and higher education levels, hous­ing discrimination, employme~t. an.d Affirmative Action remain highly active poli­cy areas in which the NAACP is and has been involved," she stated. 
As for the tactics in this continuing battle against discrimination, Pinderhughes sug­gests, "the association is most effective when it is able to link its consistent, stable, relatively conservative approach, which does not typically involve protest, with orga­nizations capable of protest, and of organiz­ing and managing more volatile kinds of strategic activities." 
But at this point, nothing is certain about the organization's future. "We will have to wait to see whether it will be our NAACP, or a completely different organization," she ad­mits. 
We accept all competitors coupons, and are open every day for lunch! 
r------~------......-------,
• : 99ft : $5.99 :S10.99: 
1 Garlic 1 Large 1 2 Large I : Breadsticks:1-Topping:1-Topping: 
1 • 1 Thin, Hand Tossed 1 Thin, Hand Tossed 1 With any I Pizza or Deep Dish I Pizza or Deep Dish I I Pizza order. I Extra I Extra I
I 

1 Not valid with other offers. 1 Not valid with other offers~ 
• SECURITY BEAT 
MONDAY, MARCH 25 
10:58 a.m. While patrolling. Security found u vehicle belonging to a Grace llall rosldont that had been broken Into in th11 02 parking lot. 
5:38 p.m. A l'asquerilln West resident reported ret:etvlng huruss­lng tolophone culls. 
H::ib p.m. A Cavanaugh llnll ros· !dent reporll•d rocolvlng hara.~sing telephone calls. 
11:15 p.m. A Kcllnan llail rosi· dP.nt was transported by Socurlty to the University Health CentPr for treatmont of n sport Injury. 
TUESDAY, MARCH 26 
8:26 a.m. A University employee was transported to Mcmorlul hospi­tal for treatment ·of Injuries sus· talnod during a fall. 
11:09 a.m. A University employ­ee was transported by Security to the University Health Center for treatmHnt of a lacorntlon. 
9:27 p.m. A Dlllon llall resident was transported by Security to St. Joseph Medical Center for treat· mont for a sport Injury. 
10:22 p.m. A Zahm Hall resi­dent reported the theft of his CD player from his vehicle whllo parked In tho 02 parking lot. 
WEDNESDAV,MARCH27 
1:55 p.m. A Carroll llall resident rllportl•d tho theft of his blkt> from tho 1st floor of Carroll Hall. 
2:33 p.m. A University «Hnployee reported vandalism to his vehlclt> while parked by tho radlutlon lab. 
7:57 p.m. An Alumni Hall resi­dent reported tho thort of his hook bag from DeBartolo Hall. 
11:07 p.m. A Morrissey Hall res· ldont reported the thol\ of his bike form Loftus. Tho bike was unlocked at tho limo of tho theft. 


----~--­
page 6 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS Friday, March 29, 1996 
our ongoing desire ~to foster equal opportunity to partici­as likely to be withheld as discussion" on issues of gays pate in the whole range of granted, despite the
Birch Run-offs
and lesbians. American life," Birch said. "I Constitution." 

continued from page I 
attention in working for gay and lesbian's rights. Prior to coming to the HRC, Birch served as chief litagator for Apple Computer Inc., helping the firm develop its policy granting benefits for the domestic partners of homosex­ual employees. 
Although she herself is not Catholic, Birch called on Notre Dame as one of the premiere American Catholic institutions to confront homosexuality on campus with decency and openness. 
"The fact remains that a year ago members of Gays and Les­bians of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College suffered a stinging setback and an enor­mous amount of pain in their drive for status as a recog­nized, University-sanctioned student group," she said. 
John Blandford, co-chair of GLND/SMC, which was one of several campus groups which organized Birch's visit, lauded Birch's words. "She repre­sents an important addition to 

Dorms 
continued from page 1 
Most institutions employ a system of co-residentiality by floor. This policy creates male floors and female floors. How­ever, three floors at College of the Holy Cross are co-ed by room. "These are only open to seniors and upperclassmen, and they are only available to a few, at that," said Gary Carskaddan, from the Housing Office at Holy Cross. 
If the recommendations of the ad hoc committee are ac­cepted, Birch said the Univer­sity should appoint a watchdog -whether a professor or an advisory committee -trusted by both administrators and gays and lesbians. 
"Whatever is done should create a state of trust," she said. 
But if the ad hoc committee's report is rejected, Birch sug­gested that a University-wide referendum be held. "I have to believe that more than 50 per­cent of the faculty and stu­dents at this University are open-minded and loving," she said. 
That the Church eventually extends an unconditional wel­come to gays and lesbians is important, said Birch, because many Americans currently abuse what they consider to be the authority of their religious faith to condemn homosexuals. 
"[These people] have con­demned me to the vengeance of God and they make it a principle of their lives to deny me and people like me an 
The policies are viewed by the administrators as part of the responsibility of the insti­tutions to their students. "The mission of a university is to prepare the students for life," Friday said. "Life is co-ed, society is co-ed." 
All three administrators ex­pressed favorable opinions concerning co-residentiality. "I believe [co-residentiality] has been a positive thing," Carskaddan said. "We still monitor access with a card system at the doors to the female hallways, but there 
have heard some voices calling not merely for thf' defeat of those I represent, but for our eradication. 
"My greatest hope for those of us who have religious convictions is that we will not give up our faith, but that it will work among all of us." she continued. "We do not need to demonize each other simply because we may disagree." 
Birch lays her hope for tol­eration in the principles of fairness and equality that are reflected in the U.S. Constitution and in Christianity when its tenets are free from misinterpretation. 
But she also recognizes that what sounds goods in theory often does not work in reality. "When I first became active in America's gay and lesbian communities, I was... confident that the American ideal would protect [homosexuals] and heal their wounds. 
So deep was our confidence in the American hope that it took the gay and lesbian com­
Birch took to task those politicians who she felt were obstacles to those civil rights, specifically Sen. Jesse Helms (R-N.C.) and Republican presi­dential candidate Pat Buchanan. 
"If we [the HRC] do nothing else in 1996, we are going to get rid of Helms," she said. 
Buchanan's name elicited the same response. 
"He has made a solemn vow not to appoint any gays or les­bians in a Buchanan adminis­tration, no matter their qualifi­cations. 
And all in the name of family values," Birch said. "Anti­Catholic bigotry is shameful and immoral. So is anti­Semitism. And so, too, is anti­gay bigotry." 

continued from page 1 
and Mia Pavlik as Treasurer, who ran with the campaign slogan "Women on the rise" received 36% of the junior class votes. "We campaigned our absolute hardest to the class of 1997, and it is un­fortunate that our fresh and new ideas were overlooked. We are hopeful that next year will be a success like we had planned," said Anne Korte. In addition, 2.8% of the class ab­stained. 
"The election results re­mained consistent, which shows that this was indeed the ticket that the junior class wanted to represent them next year," said Elections Commis­sioner Emily Ru!Tner. 
Please Recycle The Observer 
Knott Hall would like to thank the following businesses for their generous donations towards Casino Night, held on March 2, 1996. 
; Wings, etc. ; Macri's Deli : Mishawaka Brewing Company : Hacienda Mexican Restaurant : Chili's Bar Et Grill : Don Pablo's ~ Spageddies Italian Kitchen, : Fun Tan, lnc. : BW-3 : Dunkin Donuts  Soccer House The Huddle CJ's Pub Grains Et Grinds Bagel Cafe Victorian Pantry Applebee's Great Harvest Bread Company The College Football Hall ofFame Et all-who attended.  
Thank You  

 999  



No Masses will be celebrated in the residence halls. 
What challenges await professional women today? A panel of six women (three attorneys and three physicians) will discuss the choices they've made and the challenges they've faced in their careers. 
All College Mass 
1:30 p.m. 
Church of Loretto
Saturday, March 30 
Cmnpua /Uinialry 

9!00... 11!00 AM 
Suinl /Unry'1 College 
. --1!1­

126 DeBartolo Hall 
s A IN T 
MARY'S 
COLLEGE 
NOTRE DAME. IN 




~--.----.~--------------------------~--~~--~--..------~-----------------------------------------------------------­
~l 
Friday, March 29, 1996 The Observer· CAMPUS NEWS page 7 I 
1 



Yasher: Indigenous groups struggle for identity I I 
By MARILYN ALIOTO 
News Writer 
tndigt~nous ethnicity has be­come the basis of the political organization in Latin America over the past twenty years. 
Deborah Yasher addressed this and other pertinent issues in her lecture yesterday after­noon. Among these were the rHcent indigenous protests in relation to the rise of democ­racy and avoiding the violence that has occurred in protests of tlw other part of the world. 
Yash1~r stressed that even when inequality. poverty. and discrimination were high there were still no indigenous protests. She pointt~d out that 




Multi-Ca 
* A* 
* 
Schools attending: 
• University of Wisconsin Madison 
• University of Illinois 
• Case Western Reserve 
• Carnegie Mellon 
• Ohio State 
************** 
10 p.m. to 1 a.m. SDH -East Ballroom $2 Students with I D 
************** 


edjugorje 
March 25, 1996 Message 
Our Lady, Queen ofPeace 
"Dear Children! I invite you to decide again to love God above all else. In this time, when due to the spirit of consumerism, one forgets what it means to love and to cherish true values, I invite you again, lillie children, to put God in the first place in your life. Do not let Satan attract you through material things but, littiP children, deeiclt-~ for God who is freedom and love. Choose life and not death of Ihe soul, lillie chiluren, and this lime when you medi­tate upon the suffering and death of Jesus, I invite you to decide for life which blossomed through the Resurrection, and that your life may he renewed today through the conversion that shall lead you to eternal life. Thank you for having responded to my call." 
For tnore information on Marian apparitions or devotions" see the Children of Mary Homepage. 

despite the estimated 35-40 mil­lion indigenous population, change has only occurred in the past two decades. 
Organized protests began to surface in the 1980's. By the 1990's, Ecuador experienced such a powerful protest that the political and industrial spheres were paralyzed. In 1992, Guatemala also saw a protest, this time calling for political unity. Mexico, however, re­ceived the most publicity in 1994 with the Chipas Rebellion. 
"State reforms in the 1980's further disenfranchised and dis­empowered Latin America," Yasher said. Indigenous people lacked a prominent democratic presence and political auton­omy. resulting in land struggle 
• Iowa State 
• Purdue 
• IUSB 
by the individual and lack of participation. 
Yasher described three rea­sons for why these protests sur­faced. The first reason, ac­cording to Yasher, is "politiciz­ing identity." 
These are collective efforts to organize indigenous identities in relation to land, human, civil, political, inclusion, autonomy, and democratic fulfillment. "There is a significant depar­ture from the class base present in previous decades," Yasher said. 
According to Yasher, publi­cization is the second reason. This calls for the public to face indigenous issues on a national and international level. "Recent organizations have tried to stop hiding their identities which de­mand social recognition" she said. 
The third reason is "spacial­ization, a structure to redesign control within the community, politically. and socially while keeping ties to the land". 
Yasher noted that indigenous organizations are "not new in the countryside, not the result of the emerging of new identi­ties. not limited to rural popula­tions, and not the trueness of individual communities." 
Each of the five countries on which Yasher focused have their own unique charac­teristics in relation to the his­tory of indigenous protests. 
"In Ecuador," Yasher stated, "the National Confederation of Indigenous People in the Amazon and the Andes have made striking developments and is the oldest organization dating back to 1964." In Bolivia and Guatemala, the organiza­tions are structured but mostly based on factionalized groups. 
Mexico's indigenous groups are also localized. Peru, howev­er, still Jacks organized indige­nous groups. "Why have indige­nous protests surfaced in the first four countries during this 
• SMC CAMPUS BRIEFS 
The "Senior Comprehensive 
Art Exhibition" of twelve Saint 
Mary's College seniors will be 
on display in the Little Theatre 
and Hammes art galleries until 
Aprll12. 
During the week of March 
29 to April 3 pieces will be dis­
played by Allison Cascia.rl. 
Andy Feraco, Anna Hendricks 
and Gretchen Moore. The 
opening reception for this 
exhibition is on Friday, March 
29 from 6 to 8 p.m. 
The week of April 4 to April 
12 ends the exhibition with 
works shown by Autumn An­
del, Tamiko Little. Katie Lynch 
and Rosalyn De Carbo. The 
closing reception will be 
Friday, April 12 from 6-8 p.m. 
The Moreau galleries are 
open Tuesday through Friday. 
10 a.m. to noon and 1 to 4 
p.m.; Saturdays 10 a.m. to 
noon; Sundays 1 to 3 p.m. 
There is no charge for admis­
sion. For more information, 
call (219) 284-4655. 
Dance styles, ranging from classical to modern, will be featured in "Just Dance It!" a Saint Mary's College dance time and why has Peru not been able to organize," asked Yasher. 
"Theoretically, emerging indigenous protests are striking in that they challenge dominant paradigms, including liberalism and marxism." she asserted. One way in which sueh protests unfold is when "liberal democ­racy dismantles corporate-peas­ant relations and causes low economic stability." 
"Political liberalization was a popular movement in the 80's which made it easier to orga­nize and hold meetings" said Yasher. "The rights in the 80's implemented the promotion of growth, agriculture, economy. and social relations." 
The organizational methods have also improved. Yasher noted that "they are linked to other communities which create a national peasant network and gain leaders. "As a clue to why Peru has not made significant strides in indigenous protests. she offered, "historically these organizational methods were not constructed." 
The last point Yasher stressed dealt with symbols. "Claims to land are not only material. but bring back an indigenous iden­tity," Yasher asserted . 
concert by the Saint Mary's 
Dance Workshop, March 29 
through March 31, in the 
Moreau Center for the Arts 
Little Theatre at Saint Mary's. 
Under the artistic direction of lndi Dieckgrafe, the concert offers a diverse array of dances choreographed by stu­dents, faculty and guest artists. Guest artist Maggie Kast choreographed "Women at the Well," an interpretation of the story of the Samaritan women in the fourth chapter of John's gospel. Kast has been teaching and performing in Chicago and on tour for the last 30 years. 
Paula Frasz. a guest artist from Northern Illinois Univer­sity choreographed .. Skin Deep," which portrays wom­en's and society's conception of the ideal body and thB free­ing of women from this imago. The piece will be performed by seniors Molly LaJoie and Michelle Tiseo and the mem­bers of the Saint Mary's College Dance Workshop. 
Some pieces are chore­ographed by students and ad­junct professors. 
Orchestra to 
play at SMC 
Special to the Observer 

The South Bend Chamber Singers will present "Obligatos and Encores," music for chorus and solo instruments, Sunday, March 31 at 7:30 p.m. in the Moreau Center for tht\ Arts O'Laughlin Auditorium on the "Saint Mary's college campus. 
On the program are "A Pro­cession Winding Around Me." four Walt Whitman Civil War poems set to music by Jeffery Van, a pieee for chorus and flute by former Saint Mary's Music Chair .Jamns McCray, four pastorales for chorus and oboe by Cecil Effinger, Norman Delio .Joio's "Song of the Open Hoad," a work by .James Mul­holland for chorus and French horn and a composition for chorus and cello by Imant Haminsh. 
Tickets for the concert are $10 for adults, $8 for senior citizens. $5 for Saint Mary's­Notre Dame community mem­bers and $4 for students. 
--~~~--------~~ -­
page 8 The Observer • NEWS Friday, March 29, 1996 
---~----------., 
• G~EAr amrAIN 
Disease scare repels franchise customers 
Fast food chains 
Cattle caution 
Bovine spongiform 

import beef to 
encephalopathy (BSE), also known as mad cow disease,

keep up business 
caused public concern when the 

By DIRK BEVERIDGE 
British government announced 

Associated Press 
that a few cases ofa fatal human brain illness might have been 
LONDON 
caused by eating infected beef. 

The mad cow scare has left huge stockpiles of frozen ham­
Demand for beef since March 20* 

burgers at McDonald's and Wimpy, patties that face an un­certain future after the fast-food giants banned British beef. 
"It is more than likely every­
~ I 

thing will be destroyed," said 
-25% 0
I 

I
Italy · · ·30%

Katherine Young, a spokes­
·35% -40% Spain

woman for Wimpy International 
ermany 

PortugalLtd. "You're going to be looking 
at millions of burgers." 
'Estimates
-60%
McDonald's is not sure what 
Greece

to do with its unwanted McMeat as Britain's biggest fast-food 
Countries reporting BSE cases 

restaurants wrestles with the 
since 1986 

logistical difficulties of switching 
Switzerland 205

to non-British beef. "They're still in the freezer," 
Ireland 123 

said McDonald's spokeswoman 
Portugal 31 

Veronica Foster. "Our first con­
France 13 

cern is to get the beef back in 
Germany 4

the restaurants." Both McDonald's and Wimpy, 
Italy 2 

the No. 1 and No. 3 burger 
Denmark 1 

chains in Britain, put beef back flat-out to make burgers fromon the menu today after three foreign beef and workers rush­days of doing burgerless busi­ing to stock the restaurants withness. 
the meat from anywhere but
McDonald's was frying Dutch Britain.

patties at its British restaurants. 
"I've got more chance winning "1 like Big Macs, you know, 

the lottery than getting madand I've missed them since 
cow," said Barry Peterson, who
McDonald's stopped selling 
bought a McDonald's chickenthem last week," said Andrew burger in central London. 
Hall, 17, who didn't wait for lunchtime to order a Big Mac in Glasgow this morning. 
"I have missed not eating the burgers. These taste just the same," Chris Smith, 26, said at a McDonald's in London. 
Ms. Foster said Wednesday 
Jl&al'fl? l!Jt .Jleitllrlap

that sales were affected when McDonald's stopped serving British beef. 
to {j(tP :loutient .lJeffe. 

"I won't go to McDonalds any more," London cabbie Pete Hambri told a reporter on Wednesday. He went to Burger King instead. 


The switchover has thrown the burger companies into a 
&we, 

frenzy, with trucks running all 
~«rl. .Jlom,

over the country to pick up British burgers than won't be 
()' lfkal

sold, processing plants running 
Hall 
continued from page 1 

ways of religious life in 1841 at the request of Father Basil Moreau and thus began the or­der of the Marianites of the Holy Cross. Over one hundred and fifty years later the history of most of their work can be found at Bertrand Hall. 
"I had no idea that this was here," said Amberly Hersh­berger, who was one of the or­ganizers of the latest tour of Bertrand. "I walked in and I was really surprised." 
Hershberger, along with Regina Hall Resident Assistants Kara Masucci and Genifer Tarkowski, organized the tour as a hall activity. 
"We were looking for an event to teach our section a lit­tle more about Saint Mary's and its history and what it has to offer," said Masucci. 
Some of the history students can browse through is older than the College itself. Paint­ings, photos, and reproductions of early college founders line the walls; hand-sewn lace and religious garments from the days when the sisters did mending for the Brothers of the Holy Cross fill glass cases. 
"We haven't had too many visitors lately, but that's be­cause not too many people know about us yet," said Sister Campion, pointing out that the Community History Room is open every day to the general public. 
Some of the displays have a history of their own. There are hand-woven baskets from Thailand made from grasses found at the refugee camps where the Sisters worked in the late 1970's, handmade sandals 
23R0 Annual Sutntner Progratns 
ND-SMC Students 
Meeting April 1sr Carroll Hall, SMC 7:00PM 
London Rome 
May 22-June 21 June 16-July 15 
Travel in Ireland, Scotland, France, Germany and Switzerland 
Courses Offered in Biology, Business & Economics, History, Italian, Photography, Sociology. 
Cookies & Punch 
Past students and faculty will be present. For information call Prof. Black at 284-4460 or 272-3726. 
from Ghana, wood carvings 
from East Asia, and other gifts 
from around the world. 
One of the most interesting pieces is a small marble carv­ing of a baby cradled in a shell. The store is tied to Mother An­nunciata, former superior gen­. era! of her order in the 1800's and namesake of Annunciata Hall Senior Housing at Saint 
Mary's. 
When Saint John Neumann 
was bishop of Philadelphia he 
was visited by a group of chil­
dren who included Margaret 
McSheffery, who would later 
become Saint Mary's own 
Mother Annunciata. When the 
Bishop entered his parlor he 
found the children admiring his 
marble statue and jokingly said 
that anyone who could take it 
away could have it. Although 
no one could lift it, Margaret 
returned promptly with a small 
wagon in which she tri­
umphantly hauled it away. 
The Bishop reportedly said, 
"Some day, my child, you shall 
become a Religious, and what 
is more, you shall die at the 
head of your order." 
March 29, 30 at Bpm; March 31 at2:30 pm liHie Theatre For ticket information call 219/284-4626 Mon.-Fri., 9am-5pm 
In 1860 Margaret McSheffery did indeed enter the order of the Sisters of the Holy Cross, and when she died in 1900 she was, as the Bishop had pre­dicted, head of her order. 
But not many of these anec­dotal stories are known outside of the Community History Room. Hershberger noted dur­ing the tour that although many people have visited the archives at Notre Dame's Basilica, few even know where Bertrand Hall is. 
Located between the Church of Loretto and Holy Cross Hall, Bertrand is an immense struc­ture that is the second oldest on campus, dating back to the Civil War years. Built in 1862, it housed Saint Mary's Academy from 1863 to 1930. Today it holds the archives, business offices, and computer services of the Sisters of the Holy Cross. 
The Bertrand Hall Commu­nity History Room is open to the public every day from 9:30 
a.m. to 4:30 p.m. Tours can be arranged by calling Sister M. Campion at 284-5827 
8th Annual University Ballroom Dance Festival Intercollegiate Competition 
12:00,  Standard Ballroom Dances  
2:00,  Latin Dances  
3=30,  Nightclub Dances  
7=30,  Finals  
8:30,  Adult Competition  
9=30  ~  Team Match  

Saturday, March 30 
South Dining Hall 
Admission: $2 Students $8 Non Students 
Open Dancing Throughout the Day Open to the Public 
Questions?? 
Contact Greg Barlin (x-2508) at ND or Colleen Sutton (x-4127) at SMC or check the competition homepage at http://www.nd.edu/-r!>ualuan/ballroom/ 
Come Dance and Support your ND/SMC Ballroom Dance Team! 
Friday, March 29, 1996 The Observer· INTERNATIONAL NEWS page 9 
• CHINA 


Military pushes China-Taiwan crisis to brink 
By ELAINE KURTENBACH and CHARLENE FU Associated Press 

BEIJING 
Chinese President .Jiang Zernin was inclined to be ac­commodating when Taiwan's president did the unthinkable and visited the United States last summnr. 
Tlwn he !ward from the mili­tary. Bombarded by hundreds of letters each day from oflicers infuriated by his mild stance, .Jiang quiekly got the message that China must reaet strongly to tlw aiTront to Chinese sover­l)ignty over the renegade island. 
;\ month later. China's army was liring test missiles into the strait that St)parates Taiwan from the mainland as a warn­ing to stop efforts to gain the is­land inllwnational recognition. 
The pivotal role of the Peo­ple's Liberation Army in shap­ing China's n~sponse to Taiwan l'n~sidnnt l.ee Teng-hui's trip illustrates the growing influ­nncn of tlw military on the civil­ian leadership in Beijing. 
Domination of the civilian govnrnnll'nt by the increasingly voc:al. highly nationalist mili­tary will continue to have a ll~lling impaet on China's deal­ings, not just with Taiwan. hut with tlw world. 
The signilicancn of lim army's powm· goc~s far bnyond thn tra­ditional arc~as of polities and national security; it runs a huge c:omplex of factories, many pro­ducing civilian goodsor control­ling other businesses through­out China and abroad. 
Wlwn American diplomats thrmth~n sanctions over Chinese 
trade practices, the army stands to lose as much as China's bur­geoning private facto­ries. The army is involved in more and more of China's political and economic life; the Taiwan cns1s has shown it with particular clarity. 
The crisis. the worst since China and Taiwan stopped exchanging artillery lire in the late 1950s, was initially a purely political issue between China and Taiwan. 
Taiwan's president 
decided  to  attend  a  
reunion  at  his  alma  
mater,  Cornell  

University, last June. 
U.S. Secretary of State Warren Christopher assured Chinese Foreign Minister Qian Qichen in May that Lee would not get a 'isa to visit the United States. 
Several days later, the Clinton administration bowed to congressional pressure and granted Lee the visa, mortifying 

Qian and enraging Beijing. China accused the United States of helping Lee try to free Tai­wan l'rom the diplomatic isola­tion Beijing has imposed on the island it views as a rebel provinee. 
Len is campaigning to win Unilnd Nations membership for Taiwan and to expand tl111 is­land's international role. Chi­IHJse leaders fear his ultimate goal is to declare independence. 
Over the past 18 months, relations have been further strained between China 
Timelines .. 
and Taiwan. Although both share in a bountiful economic relationship, differences
of tension .. in political philosophies sharply divide them. 
Jan. 30, 1995: June 8: 

Taiwan President Lee Teng·hui snubs Taiwan President Lee's 

Chinese President Jiang Zemin's proposal for talks on reunification. rtoN..\'<"k 
I 


1995 
II
July 21: 

Beijing fires two short-range missiles into seas just no.rth of Taiwan. Four more missiles follow later in the week. Three weeks later, It stages 11 days of missile tests and live-fire war games. 
March 1996 
Dec.2: Pro-unification candidates do unexpectedly well in legislative elections in Taiwan. following intimidations by Beijing. 
I 
1996 

Feb. 19,1996: Intelligence reports show tens of thousands of Chinese soldiers massing on the coast of southeastern Fujian province opposite Taiwan. 
March 8: China stages war games and fires  March 20: Washington approves sale of Stinger air defense missiles and other  
the first of lour ballistic missiles in seas near  weaponry to Taiwan. The U.S. House of Representatives passes a resolution  
Taiwan's two main ports, threatening to cut the  demanding that China stop military moves to intimidate Taiwan and declares  
island's lifeline to the world.  that U.S. forces should defend the island from invasion or attack.  

11
111111 ffii 11 1IIIII 
March 17: Premter Li Peng says Chtna would attack only if Taiwan J I r declared independence or ts invaded by foreign forces. March 25: China ends two 
March 23: Lee wins the presidential election and quickly oHers sets of war games. The tug-to grant China's demand lor direct trade and telephone links. of-war over Taiwan continues. 
AP/ Wm. J. Castello 
His June 8, 1995, trip to New York brought to the boiling point tensions that have sim­mered since Nationalist Chinese forces fled to Taiwan after los­ing a civil war to the Com­munists in 1949. Even before Lee's trip, Beijing was angry over his snub of Jiang's propos­al in a Jan. 30, 1995, speech for talks on reunification. 
Ill-will had been building for several years. U.S. arms sales and a visit to Taiwan by U.S. Trade Representative Carla Hills in 1992 began a gradual adjustment of American policy in favor of greater recognition for Taipei's growing economic clout, much to China's conster­nation.Beijing said Lee must give up his campaign for more international recognition for Taiwan. Lee, in a post-victory interview, said he would not. 
The military is determined to 
hold a hard line. At the close of the latest war games, one of China's most powerful generals. Zhang Wannian, warned that force would be used if Taiwan "goes independent." 
Jiang and other top civilian leaders are in no position to disagree. They are vying with each other to succeed Deng Xi­aoping, the architect of China's economic reforms who is now too ill to run the country. 

Tuesday, April 2, at 3:00pm 101 DeBartolo Hall 
Attention Students! Do you want a voice in the future of Information Technology at Notre Dame? Here's your chance to participate! 
Come to 101 DeBartolo on Tuesday, April 2, at 3:00 pm. There 
you may voice your visions, concerns, and needs for information 
technology. A representative from Edutech, a consulting firm 
specializing in IT for colleges and universities, will facilitate this 
session. The meeting is scheduled to end at 4:00pm. 
This strategic planning effort is being sponsored by the 
Office of Information Technologies (OIT). As students you are 
one of the most important constituencies on campus. We need 
your input to enable us to effect strategic directions that align 
with yours. Please come and lend your support. 
••• University of Notre Dame
0• Office of Information Technologies0• Notre Dome, lndiono 46556 
--------------------~------~-----­
---·-----·--------------~­
Friday, March 29, 1996 
page 10 The Observer· WASHINGTON NEWS 

Democrats, Dole clash over minimum wage hike 
By MARCY GORDON 
Associated Press 
Congressional Democrats failed again Thursday to force a vote on raising the minimum wage, but promised to keep the issue alive this election year and challenge Senate Majority Leader Bob D o I e . Republicans accused them Dole of political opportunism and partisan attacks on Dole, who is President Clinton's certain elec­tion rival. 


Clinton quickly expressed dis­appointment at the outcome and blamed the Senate's Re­publican leadership for barring efforts "to give 1 0 million Americans an immediate pay increase." 
"With every day that the Re­

publican leadership continues 
to stall, the value of the mini­
mum wage continues to fall 
closer and closer to a 40-year 
low," Clinton said in a state­
ment. 
"If we value work, if we value 
families, we ought to raise the 
value of the minimum wage," 
Clinton said. "Now is the time 
to put politics aside, raise the 
minimum wage, and help lift 
the lives of millions of Ameri­
ca's workers." 
Knowing they face a tough 
fight, the minority Democrats 
said they'll try again and again 
to bring up the issue, which 
they are framing in terms of 
family values. 

"The fact is the Republican Party has declared a war on working families." Dole's coun­terpart, Senate Minority Leader Tom Daschle, D-S.D., told reporters before the party tried for votes in both the House and Senate. "This war on working families has got to stop." 
In a 55-45 tally on the Senate floor, the Democrats fell five votes shy of the 60 needed to shut off debate and force a vote on an amendment, proposed by Sen. Edward Kennedy, D-Mass., to national parks legislation. The amendment would boost the minimum wage from the current $4.25 an hour to $5.15 an hour in two 45-cent steps over the next two years. 
Despite the setback, key 
Democrats later told reporters they were encouraged by the size of the vote in their favor and its bipartisan character. "We have more than enough votes to pass minimum wage," Daschle said. "Sooner or later, this will pass.... We'll be back offering this week after week until we get it passed." 
Across the Capitol in the House, Republicans beat back two attempts by Democrats to attach an increase in the mini­mum wage to a measure in­creasing the government's bor­rowing authority. 
.Both were procedural mo­tions. Republicans defeated one by ruling that raising the mini­mum wage would violate a "Contract With America" law 
CASTING & ANGLING 
CouRSE Four Sessions 
Tuesday 6:00-7:30 PM Open to Students & Staff $8.00 Class Fee 
CLASS DATES. 
APRIL 2 APRIL 9 APRIL 16 APRIL 23 


Classes Held in the Joyce Center, · Rolfs & Campus Lakes Equipment Provided but Bring Own if Possible Register in Advance at RecSports 
enacted last year that forbids the federal government from imposing regulations on local governments without compenc sating them for their cost. 
The Republicans "are doing procedural pirouettes to avoid a real debate and preventing the public from seeing where they really stand on this issue," La­bor Secretary Hobert Reich said in an interview. " At a mini­mum, the public deserves to have its representatives stand up and be counted." 
Reich noted that Clinton pro­posed an increase nearly two years ago and the GOP had sup­ported one in 1989. "Time is running out in this Congress," he said. "The minimum wage is 
almost at  a  40-year low in  
terms  of  real  purchasing  
power."  

The White House has insinu­ated that Dole is using the mini­mum wage to play election-year politics. 
o/engan 51 CeCe6rar 
Come (flebn.te 
La 
The 

Misa de rJJomingo rJJe !l{p,t1Ws 
Palm Sunda~· ~fa;;:> 
.. 


1:10 p.m. Stlmjorrl-Ker'Jall CJHipef Padre J',ifrick Nrary, cs c 
Todos Estan Invitados
-
= 

Weather permitting, the procession will begin at the War Memorial. In case ofinclement weather, we will begin Mass at Keman-Stanford. 

• '~---·.· 
• 
' """ 
'\o,, 
• '\tk '11jfu, 
' 
)-!; ., 
• ,." 
• 

AN AYRES EXCLUSIVE! 


CLINIQUE 
FREE 7-PIECE GIFT 
YOURS WITH ANY CLINIQUE PURCHASE OF $15 OR MORE 
YOUR FREE 7-PC. CLINIQUE GIFT INCLUDES: 
•Moisture Surge Treatment Formula, .50-oz. __ •Full-Size Different Lipstick in Bronze Violet "%& •Soft-Pressed Powder Blusher in New Clover ~Dramatically Different Moisturizing Lotion, .50-oz. 
•__ ·'Wk-. •Clarifying Lotion 2, 2-oz. wm ·· •Full Potential Mascara in Black 'I •The Newest Clinique Cosmetics Bag 
One to a customer please, while supplies last Offer valid through April14. 

FOR YOUR PURCHASE, MAY WE SUGGEST Clinique's 3-Step Skincare System, 29.50 
•Soap 
with Dish ~Available in Extra Mild, Mild and Extra Strength) 

•Clarifying 
Lotion (Available in 4 Different Formulas). 6-oz. 


•Dramatically Different Moisturizing Lotion, 2-oz. 
ORDER ANY TIME TOLL-FREE 1-800-528·2345 

VIEWPOINT 
Friday, March 29, 1996 page 11 
THE OBSERVER 
N(rrRE DAME OFPICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MAHY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1996-97 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Elizabeth Foran Managing Editors Business Manager Parricia Carson Matt Casey Tom Roland 
News Editor ........................ 1\rad Prendergast Advertising Manager ............................ Ellen Ryan 
Viewpoim Editor .................. Meaghan Smith Ad Desifln Manager ...............................jed Peters Spons Editor .....................Timmhy Sherman Production Manager.......................Tara Grieshop Accent Edi10r ........................... joey Crawford Systems Manager ............................ Sean Gallavan Saint Mary's Editor ................. Caroline Blum Controller .......................................... Tyler Weber Photo Editor .... . ................. Mi..:hael Ruma 
The-Oh~ervcr i!. the inJcpendt·nt nt'wspapt:r published by rhc srudenrs of the Universiry of Notre Dame du Lac J.nd S<tint M,,ry's College. II docs nor necessarily reflect rhe policies of rhe administra­tion nfC'ithcr inslin11iun. The news is reported as acrurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned edi­rorial~ rcpre~t·m tht· opinion of the majority of rhe Editor-in-Chief, M;maging Ediror. News Editor, Viewpoint Ediror, Acce1H Editor, Phoro Editor. Spons Editor, anJ Saint Mary's Ediwr. (:onlnlt'lll&tric~. ll'tter!'l a1ui Imide ( :olumns present the view!> of rhc authors, and not necessarily those of.l'ht" ()h11erve1. Vit·wpointllpan is availablt· wall members of rhe Notre Dame/Saint Mary's com­munity ami mall reade-rs. Tht• free expression of v;1rying opinions through leuers is encouraged. 
hliror·in-( :hicf M.tnaging Editor/Viewpoint Sporl!> 
New~/Phow 
An·ent/Saint Mony'!. Ihy Ediwr/Produ(.tinn (;enerallnli.mn;uinn 
Observer Phone Lines 
631-4542  1\usincss Office  631-5313  
6.~ 1-4541  Advertising  631-6900/8840  
6J 1-4543  Sy"ems/Markcting Dept.  631-8839  
631-5.n3  Otllce Man:tgcr  631-7471  
631-4540  Fax  631-6927  
631·5303  Viewpoint  E-Mail  Viewpoinr.l@nd.edu  
(dl-7471  Ad E·Mail  ohserver@darwin.cc. nd.cdu  


• LETTER TO THE EDITOR 

Voting wrongs 
Dear Editor: 

I am writing in response to Caroline Blum's articles in the March 26 and 27 issues of The Observer, pertaining to the Saint Mary's elections and the class of 1997's violation. The Pokorny. Lob, Connolly, and EIJsworth ticket overlooked the Poster Policy No.6, resulting in a 15 percent deduction of the ticket's total votes. 
My concern as a member of the Class of 1997 at Saint Mary's is whether or not the Election Committee was looking out for the students' best interest. What they didn't realize was that penalizing the Pokorny ticket would be penalizing the supporters of' the Pokorny ticket, which in turn was the major­ity of the senior dass. When the Election Committee met to choose a percentage calculation, they did so with the intent to figure out how many students were unjustly persuaded by a few flyers. With such a high percentage calculated it appears the committee was out to penalize the ticket for other rea­sons. 
For sut:h a violation. I feel the penalty was steep. I under­stand that the violation should not have gone unnoticed and a 15 percent reduction is fair for the primary election. However, since both tickets are re-campaigning for runoffs, ls it necessary to have another 15 percent reduction? I agree with Emily HuO'ner in her statement that "when you have such percentagn of votnr turnout, then you know that the class real­ly had in mind who they want to represent them." 
My second concern is the manner in which my fellow class­mates rnaeted. I respect ull who are running and those on the Elections Committee. In turn I would hope they would show the same respect for me, a member of the Class of 1997, and for any opposing tickets. 
If someone should decide to make a statement for a newspa­per then they should be fully aware of the situation and the facts on which they are commenting. Emily Miller and Jen Lidga ran for President and Vice President of the Saint Mary's College student body respectively for 1996-97, therefore they should know that the poster policy that was violated is a new policy this year. So whether a ticket member has held a posi­tion in the past is not relevant. 
This election has taught me more about Saint Mary's politics than I would have imagined. I hope in future cases that the Elections Committee will take the concern of the student body at Saint Mary's into consideration. I feel the violation should be punished, and 15 percent of the primary election is just. llowever. taking away 15 percent of the opinion of the Class of 1997 a second time is wrong. 
KIMYIA VARZI Junior LeMans Hall 

Notre Dame sure has been bringing some pret­ty strange folks to campus lately. A medley of advertisements for gay/lesbian speakers have appeared in The Observer, courtesy of the right­thinkers inhabiting the Counseling Center, the GSU, and the Center for Social Concerns. Now, this Saturday (during the Final Four, so it's dou­bly evil), a fellow named Derrick Bell will be on campus, spreading a corrosive message of a dif­ferent sort. 
democracy. 

In the face of this pessimism, he sees as a solu­tion: nothing. Black people are to be witnesses to the destruction wrought by white society. and prophets calling on America to live up to its ideals. But, he says, no one ever listens to prophets. No one will listen to the cries of the underprivileged, oppressed, inner-city masses. 
I share Bell's pessimistic view of the pedantic, 
repetitive cry for more "edu­
Bell is a controversial cation" to solve society's black law professor, whose problems. claim to fame was resign­There, our agreement must ing from llarvard Law end. While I, as a pro-lifer,
Charles 

School's faculty. Now, I can have no illusions about can respect resignation America's capacity for from Harvard. I mean, I tremendous moral evil, I
Roth 

had so little respect for don't see it where he sees it. that rat-hole, I didn't even Egalitarianism has no power apply. to save; if that was his faith, 
.Unfortunately, he seems to have made a career out of making himself controversial. At Stanford. he was supposed to be teaching constitutional law, but instead focused so heavily on "black-white" issues that his students finished the course without learning con law. When the university set up a special series of lectures to remedy the situation, Bell and his cohorts protested and forced the school to cancel the series. 
Previously, he had been Dean of Oregon Law School. The faculty there voted not to hire an Asian-American woman. You can probably guess: he resigned in protest. His underlying message bothers me much more than his pen­chant for controversy. 
In his essay, 'The Permanence of Racism," he sets forth his position quite clearly: "Racism...is not an aberrant disease .... Racism is a primary stabilizing force in a nation of varied people whose opportunities and status are wildly dis­parate, and are likely to remain so." Because racism soothes the unrest of poor whites, and perhaps other groups like Hispanics, Bell calls racism, " a crucial component of liberal democ­racy in this country." 
lie rejects the notion that education can solve the problems of racism. Indeed, he is pessimistic that racism -as he defines it -can ever be eliminated. Because of racism's "crucial" role in preserving social stability, blacks will forever be the sacrificial victims on the altar of American 
he is well lost of it. But if he rejects that creed, to what ought black prophets call the nation? 
Were he simply using the existence of a black underclass to point out the flaws in the Great Society ideal of socialistic equality, I could go along for the ride. I fear, however, that he is the worst sort of believer: a hypocritical one. Having rejected his creed, he adheres to the "religion" of Civil Rights. He will use it to con­demn, never to save. He will rove the earth searching for converts, but teach them nothing but frustration. 
It's frustrating to see minds like Bell's go far astray. But it is educational nonetheless (and fun). to listen to someone with whom disagree­ment is complete. Frustration is often counter­balanced by fascination. 
Whatever Bell's drawbacks, he stands out in stark contrast to the doctrinaire gay rights speakers brought in by the Gender Studies folks. Here, at least, is a powerhouse controversialist whose ideas are well-thought out, if wrong; whose diagnosis is provocative, if not ultimately compelling. One can learn from listening to a man like that (for a little while, at least). 
Chuck Roth will join the ranks of the under­class when he graduates from Law School in 50 days. Until then, you can email him at Roth. 6@nd. edu. 
GARRY TRUDEAU
• 000NESBURY 
• QUOTE OF THE DAY 






ACCENT
page 12 Friday, March 29, 1996 
ADi erent Kin 
0 
piritua i 
By J.R. YANCHAK Accent Copy Ediror 
H
ave you ever been really afraid? Not the kind of fear that comes when you realize you have a test in two hours, 200 pages to read and a notebook that closely resembles a novel written in Sanskrit. How about the kind of fear that sends un­controllable chills up your spine and threatens your control of your bladder? 
Ghost stories told around a flickering campfire or in a dimly-lit room, and the conjec­ture about the unknown offered weekly on the "X Files" have always been a popular way to send fear coursing through someonc'o; body. Usually, the scarier something is the better. Tales such as these are entertaining to most, amusing to some, and ter­rifying 
t 0 
many. 
., 
i 
t
-

----t 
. I 
..} -t 
.· 

Someplace as old as Notre Dame almost seems required to have its share of tales of the unknown and unknowable. The ghosts of Notre Dame's past still walk the corridors and lurk in the rooms of some of its most venerable buildings, while other areas of cam­
pus are plagued by rumors and innuendo about unnatural happenings. For starters, Washington Hall just looks haunted, doesn't it? The spire that competes with the Basilica and Golden Dome nearby for domination of the sky and the peculiar circular windows invoke 
an air of almost palpable menace. No less could be expected of a building that houses one of the campus's most famous ghosts­the ghost of the Gipper. 
George Gipp's abilities on the football field are leg­endary and his story has been immortalized as an intP.gral piece of Notre Dame's hi<>tory. However, the stmy of his restless spirit is less well-known. 
The tale begins with Gipp (a notorious big-partier according to tour-guide Bryan Furze) returning from a late night of rP.veling off-campus. In the olden days, all the dorm doors were locked after curfew, and you were out of luck and in a lot of trouble if you weren't in by cur­f e w . George found him­s e If 
f ..J..
-
.1
l! 
t 
I 
l­
l
-



at Notre 
locked out in the frigid South Bend winter His position as fireguard at Washing refuge there. Searching fd climbed the fire escapl 
resolved to spend a 
classic! to Coach 
assistant w 
birds-eye view atop t Joe Oracko made a crucial field goal, t Bless you, Oracko." His exclamation ech and left many believing Rockne had spo 
A more recent tale of Rockne's s groundskeeper. The man was leaving after completing his duties. Moments nessed all the stadium lights kick on at tain the arena was empty when he lef found it still vaeant. The groundske . ghost of Rockne visiting the site of his g 
The undead of ND aren't limited just projectionist at Cushing discovered. Tl running the projeetor for an installmen The movie went well until she switehe switch was made, the ghostly image of with long black hair superimposed itse girl did not appear elsewhere in the mechanical error. Further investigatic showing the next night, turned up nc young girl. 
If ghosts aren't enough to send the ne then Notre Dame also offers some sup natural-locations as well. How about network of tunnels? The tunnels are s most students have never seen them heard of them and longs for them when temperatures. They remain a closely g nance department. 
Used years ago by students to avoid t 
tunnels eventually fell out of use after 
ruled they were unsafe. Connecting aln pus, except for the more recent ones. t sections under most of campus and ar1 graffiti. The entryways to most of the d< cemented over to prevent curious experience of underground Notre used only infrequently by maintenance 
The rat and cockroach problems been attributed to this underground work since the critters like the dar wet environment offered under the campus. But who knows what els might have been breed over the ye down in the lightless expanses? Could blind, fleshy-white creatures lurk below, created by the combi­nation of the radiation leaking from the Radiation Building and chemicals leaking from the halls of science? Prob­ably not, but it has the potential for a 
pretty  good-or  
really  bad-horror  
movie.  

This is only a sample of the supernatural wonders that lurk behi Notre Dame, a minor glimpse at the bt rors that you hopefully will never have great deal more such as the hidden ' 
individual ghosts for almost every dor exactly goes on inside the Radiation Re 
So next time you're wandering back after long hours of studying or partyin of your neck let you know something i brain fried from excess studying or a! you might run across a deceased N something even more monstrous. 
~........~~~------.. 
Friday, March 29, 1996 


arne 
night. ton llall lnd him to seek r an unlocked window, he ~. Unable to gain ~~ntry, he 
11ry chilly night on the lire escape. Legend has it that it was during this night hn contracted the strnp throat that later claimnd his life. The Gippnr's ghost still haunts he .hall, continuing his uties and guarding 
•ainst fires. l'he restless spirit of other Notre Dame football end troubles tlw stadium .r1~ he nwolutioniz11d Irish ball. Humors abounded Knutn Bnckrw's death. One 
story involved an assistant Frank L11ahy. The coaching s watching a game from a e seoreboard. When kicker e assistant erind out, "God IIPd throughout the stadium len from bnyond the grave. pirit involvnd a stadium lthn stadium late onn night 
ftnr his dnparturn, he wit­
ncn. I~~~ was absolutdy eer­and al'tnr invnstigating, he er swears that it was tlw tal victories. .o old football legPnds as a 
e Notrf' Dame studPnt was of tlw Frenrh film festival. to tlw lirst rPel. Whnn the a young girl in a rrd drPss f on tlw SITI11lll. Tlw young lm, ruling out sonw l'rnak n, including an additional 
traens of the mystnrious 
cessary chills up your spine. IWIHLtural-or nearly super­PI abandonnd subterrannan lightly lngendary. given that while almost 1~veryone has walking to elass in sub-zero mrdnd n~alm of the mainte­
w South Bend weather, the the university bureaucracy rost every building on cam­wy form a warren of inter­1 festooned with antiquated rms have been bricked and 1nts from getting first hand 
w. Today, the tunnels are rew. rienced by many dorms has 
.lt­

and speculation about what .narcl1 building. 
to the dorms late one night and the hackles on the back amiss, don't dismiss it as a :>hoi. You never know when ~e Da.me football legend or 
~~------~............................--------~~~--------..----~..--~..--~~~--------~----~~----~------~----------~ 
ACCENT 
page 13 

Elvis is still the Kini!! 
The legend continues with Irv Cass 
By JASON DORWART Assistant Accent Ediwr 
T
here really isn't anyone who 
isn't guilty of singing a favorite 
song in the shower or while 
shaving. But Irv Cass of South 
Bend decided four and a half years ago that his bathroom antics were worthy of being shared with the world. 
And the judges agreed. 
Cass entered his first Elvis imperson­ation tournament in late 1991 and fin­ished lil'th out of twenty contestants. 
lie decided that this showing was a good enough reason to pursue a career in what is one of our generation's strangest professions. And now, almost live years later, Cass is considered one of the world's top "Elvises." 
However. Cass refuses to acknowledge this. lie says that "each guy hears that they are the best. There are couple thou­sand world wide, so there are obviously a lot of good ones. There arc some guys who just never get anywhere." He real­izes that he has been I ucky enough to look like his mentor and has also always had fun with character portrayals. 
Bnfore he got into Elvis, Cass used to do impr11ssions of all sorts of celebrities ranging from the flighty and bizarre .Jerry Lewis to the multi-talented rock group the B11e Gees. 
Tlw Am11rican public and the entire world snem to love Elvis the best, though, and d1~mand to see people perform under that guisn. 
The demand for impersonations of ceiPbrities is great enough that in Las Vegas there is a show called "Legends in Conenrt" in which eight various charac­ters in each show pay homage to our era's biggest superstars. Cass has per­formed alongside other faux-celebs such as Marilyn Monroe, Liberace, Michael .Jackson, and the artist formerly known as Prince. 
This is one of his favorite gigs and he has done it several times. The show runs for a month at time so it is con­stant exposure and a stnady ineome for what has bceome his full-time job. 
As a full-time "Elvis," Cass works usually three to live times per week, but it always varies and sometimes he just needs to rest. He does all of his own singing so his voice can and often does get worn down. "The lit­tle that I do wears me down, so I can't imagine what it was like for [Elvis]," he says. 
But it is all worth it, he is sure to point out. Cass says, "It is fun to be able to entertain people. The fans love Elvis and always want to see more." He has fun on stage pretending to be and being treated like a superstar by the many fans. And besides, "the money is nothing I can complain about." 
But all the money isn't worth it if he doesn't have fun. So Cass knows the importance of keeping his voice clear and healthy and doesn't like to work too many days in a row. The tours that lasted months on end arc what he feels drove Elvis to his death. 
"I think Col. Parker (Elvis' manager) worked him to death," he says, "I don't know how [Elvis] could do it. That is probably why he died so young and got hooked on the drugs. But what many young people and [uninformed! critics today don't realize is 
and docs not like the fact that most impersonators that are seen on television tend to be the older, fatter Elvis. 
He complains that many of todays Elvis imposters 
that he didn't do illegal exaggerate drugs. All the drugs he everything by took were prescription using such drugs that he got from things as doctors because he cheesy paste­performed too hard. on sideburns They were all legal and wigs that drugs, he just overdid look like it, and that killed him." sheepdogs And Cass' opinion on painted black. the continuing contro­Because it is versy surrounding his full time Elvis' death? job he is able 
"Elvis is passed to take on the away; he's dead," says full look. "I Cass, "He loved enter­have the side­taining and being on burns and the stage too much, he hair and wouldn't be happy if he everything," couldn't have that. he says, Besides, he loved his "because I fans and wouldn't don't want to want to hurt people look like like that. You know. Bozo." he wouldn't want to On the see them grieve for Elvis Presley streets he him, that would hurt doesn't dress too many people." nor comb his hair 'like Elvis, hut some 
Although, Cass docs admit that he can people still stare and laugh and make the sec where this hope would come from. typical "That guy thinks he's Elvis," com­"If anyone had the money and the people ment. He is quick to point out that he is to do it, it would be Elvis. And that is "not mixed up in the head about who why your hope will only let you be 99 Elvis is and who I am. It's just a look I percent sure. But as far as I am con­have for my job." cerned, he is dead," Cass says. The onstage look is something to mar­
It is unfortunate that Elvis is dead vel at. though. Cass portrays Elvis' black 
because, according to leather '68 Comeback Special look and 
Cass, "On T.V. they mostly the younger Vegas years. He says, 
pick guys who look "I do portray the older Elvis but I don't 
like clowns and try look the heavy part. It was in '69 that 
to make a mock­Elvis started playing Vegas, and he 
ery of him." didn't balloon up until about two years 
Cass is a true before he died in '77." 
die-hard This knack for such an accurate por­
Elvis trayal has earned Cass the opportunity to 
Photo Curtesy of lrv Cass 

South Bend's lrv Cassis con­sidered by many to be one the the worlds top Elvis imperson­ators. 

fan play at the Las Vegas Hilton, the Imperial Palace in Las Vegas, the Paramount Arts Centre of Chicago, on the "Jerry Lewis Telethon," the "Phil Donahue Show" and ABC-TV's "20/20." He has also been the opening act for country legend Ronnie Milsap and Peter Noone, the former lead singer of the 60's English rock group Herman's Hermits. On the anniversary of Elvis' death this year, Cass will have the opportunity to sing with Elvis' former band and back-up singers, J. D. Sumner and the Stamps Quartet and the Jordanairs. His next local show will be at the Great Wall Restaurant on U.S. 31 in Roseland. The show starts at 8 p.m., 
'\·......... with dinn~r served a~ 6:30 P·":~·· on 
··· .. , Sat., Apnl 5. "lf you re an Elv1s fan \ at all, you'll enjoy it; I won't disap­" ' point. I promise," says Cass. 
The most important thing for Cass is how vital Elvis was to American cul­ture. "I don't know why anyone would want to make a mockery of him. He was an excellent singer. and a great enter­tainer and he brought a lot of happiness to a lot a people's lives. In my mind there are three big superstars up until now: Elvis, The Beatles, and Michael Jackson. I don't care if you like them or not, they have been important influences," he says. 
Cass just wants to give Elvis respect by ioing what he does so well and with so much fun. 
Thankya, thankya vermuch. lrv. 
... 

. ~ 
·-. 
.. 


~------------~-----.~---------.~--~--------------~----------------------------------------------~--~.. 
page 14 The Observer • SPORTS Friday, March 29, 1996 
Senior leadership key on journey to Meadowlands 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK 

Even though the flood of un­derclassmen leaving school early has made college basket­ball the sport of what could have been, success is still syn­onymous with seniors. 
This year's Final Four teams each advanced to the weekend at the Meadowlands with se­niors playing a key role. 
There is top-ranked Massachusetts with bookend forwards Donta Bright and Dana Dingle; Kentucky with its outside-inside duo of Tony Delk and Walter McCarty; Mississippi State with 3-point specialist Darryl Wilson and rugged power forward Russell Walters; and Syracuse with point guard Lazarus Sims and star forward John Wallace. 
People can reel off the names of the underclassmen who opted for the NBA draft after last sea­son sophomores Jerry Stackhouse and Rasheed Wallace of North Carolina, Joe Smith of Maryland and Antonio McDyess of Alabama. 
But last year's national cham­pion, UCLA, couldn't have won the school's 11th title without the senior trio of Ed O'Bannon, Tyus Edney and George Zidek. 
"To win on the road you have to be a good team, but I believe you have to be a senior-oriented team to win an NCAA tourna­ment," said John Calipari. 
Calipari has that in Bright and Dingle, two undersized for­wards who have been over­shadowed by All-American cen­ter Marcus Camby, who is weighing whether to stick around for his senior year, and the backcourt tandem of Edgar Padilla and Carmelo Travieso. 
'oelk made the move from point guard to shooting guard for the Wildcats after their first loss of the season, in November to Massachusetts. It's rare that a player good enough to be a second-team All-America is willing to sacrifice minutes for wins. 
"It's not just him," Calipari said. "I think you have to un­derstand what they did is they all stepped back, each player stepped back so they could take three steps forward. In our game, when it got a little crazy, they tried to do their own thing. Now they're not doing that." 

Syracuse came close to being another of those schools that lost a star early, but Wallace pulled his name out of the draft and returned for a very suc­cessful senior season that saw him selected a second-team All­America. 
"I hope it encourages them to stay," coach Jim Boeheim said of Wallace's decision. "I think I've long been an advocate that if you're really ready physically and mentally to go, there's nothing wrong with going. For the most part, most guys need to stay and work on their games and get better because the NBA needs you to be ready." 
Wallace made the baseball pass that led to the tying basket at the close of regulation against Georgia in the regional semifinals and then made the winning 3-pointer with 2.8 sec­onds to go in overtime. 
While the players who draw the most attention this weekend will be the underclassmen who will spend the next month weighing pro options, the suc­cess for any of the teams will most probably be riding with the sport's endangered species, seniors. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. 
Classifieds Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
Need graduation tix.  Will take any  Want to get cash for your old  JUDAY CREEK gem.  WANT TO COME AND SEE SOME  I can't wait to have a smoke with  
NOTICES  amount.  Call Allyson at X4309.  Sega games? X 1047  Call Jonathan  Well-maintained, 4-bedroom ranch with a 17 x 25 home office  PEOPLE THAT CAN REALLY SHAKE THEIR BOOTY? COME  Mom PC  
MAKE  MONEY  NOW NOT  & 3-car garage.  TO SOUTH DINING HALL, EAST  "What are you doing?!"  
SOMEDAY!  Are you moving to Detroit after  5 minutes to ND.  BALLROOM THIS SATURDAY,  
Don't know what to do with the sibs this weekend, sophs? Buzz lightyear to the rescue!  Rapidly growing I Telecommunications co.needs Reps in this area. Great financial  graduation and need a roommate? Me too! I'm a fun roomie and have tots of CO's! Call Amy @ 634-0746  REDUCED TO $149,500 Call Karen 272-3653.  MARCH 30 AND WATCH COM­PETITORS FROM OTHER SCHOOLS AND OUR VERY OWN  "I didn't think anyone one was pay­ing attention to me.... "  
TOY STORY showing @ Cushing Fri & Sat 8 & 10:30 Sun@ 2  opportunity for full & PIT position. Call today I (219) 287-2053 Mark Wright Independent Rep & Area Coordinator for Excel  for more information. FOR RENT  Waterfront Condos 1 Bedrooms from $52,000 2 Bedrooms from $80,000  ND/SMC BALLROOM DANCE TEAMS COMPETE. EVERYONE IS WELCOME.  Bets, bets and more bets .... isn't this fun?  
It's coming .... the first Four Food Groups of the Apocalypse Anthology: "A WELL BALANCED  I NEED A RIDE TO Minneapolis for Easter Break Will help with $ and driving  ROOMS FOR RENT IN PRIVATE HOME. VERY CLOSE TO ND.  New Decor EVERYTHING included Close to Notre Dame BEAUTIFUL!  SPRING CLEAN-UP SATURDAY, MARCH 30 Bam to 1pm Transportation and lunch provided!  Let's make some on !CPA, such as whether two people witt actually ever show up ....  
MEAL." Shazam! Take A WALK IN THE CLOUDS Friday 7 & 9:30 Saturday 9 Carroll Aud. Free Admission  Call Monica @ 3694 L'ARCHE HARBOR HOUSE in Jacksonville, Florida invites you to a year of service creating community  IDEAL FOR SMC-ND EVENTS. 272-6194. Studio apartment in private home, available June 1 . Quiet neighbor­ NORTH SHORE CLUB 232-2002 Nissan Sentra, 1983, 90000 miles,  Vans leave from Main Circle between 8 and 1 0. HAPPY BIRTHDAY, 0 TALL ONE!! WE LOVE VA (THRICE)!!  "From fear and from shame I wish that you henceforth divest yourself, so that you may no more speak like one who is dreaming.• Jillian Marie.  
••••••••••••EARTH WEEK••••••••••  with persons who are developmen­tally disabled. Responsiblities  hood near Notre Dame. $375/mo. incl. utilities. Phone 631-6072 days,  5 Speed, in excellent running condi­tion for$ 1400/obo. Call277-5106  Love, Minty Lips & The Girl With The Futon  Three blocked shots.  That was  
ShamROCK Greenfest  include: assist in creating a home; develop relationships with mem­ 273-1751 evenings.  or 1-5606.  I have room to Pittsburgh for  bad. bad.  t was bad.  We were all pretty  
an Environmental Musical  bers; and assist in personal care  • • • ROOMATE WANTED • • •  86 Honda Civic 4Dr., new brakes,  Easter. Leaving Wed. x0619.  
Celebration Saturday (3/30) 1·5pm, Fieldhouse  and community living. Requirements include a desire to  Prefer Female nonsmk grad std. Beautiful, safe downtown apt $200  clutch, battery. Very 'dependable. $800 271-1289  ..ROCK 'N ROLL..  Shorts.  
Mall  live with, learn from, and relate with  heat incl. Priv. 1/2 bath w/ room.  
FREE Food, drinks, tie-dying, seed  mentally disabled adults. Benefits  hardwd firs, firepl., dine rm, sun rm,  1421 N. Oak Dr.; condo, by owner,  TACKLE BOX  LIVE  Murph, sorry.  
planting, info, and more.  STOM­ include room, board, health jnsur­ garage, WD. On bus rt.  Alisa @  immaculate, 2 full baths, garage,  and  at  
PER BOB AND THE 4X4'S, TWEAK, AND GEORGE AND THE FREEKS will be playing! (rain place: CSC)  ance, and formation in the spirituali­ty and philosophy of L'Arche. To apply, contact Dottie Klein, 700 Arlington Rd., Jacksonville, FL  237-1840 5 BR; 605 St Peter $925/mo 232-2595  finished lower level, walk to ND. range, dishwasher, microwave, refrigerator, wid, $77,900,277-8898  HACE FRIO We gaurantee a great time.  Ctub23 Tonight  We're really everywhere. Ubiquitous one might say. one did.  In fact,  
EUROPE $229 Be a little flexible and save $$$  32211; (904)725-7740. Summer Camp Employment  CLAY TWNSHP 1&2 BDROOM  1993 NISSAN PATHFINDER XE, lots of options, prof. main!, 28000 miles...$21 ,500. 273-8673  •ROCK 'N ROLL.. the only boy who could ever reach  Hi to the 6 in 228! I love you girlies! Even better than Bieg!  
We'll help you beat the airline  Spend one of your best summers  UNITS ($350 & $450); STOVE,  me was the son of a preacher man  
prices. Destinations Worldwide AIRTICHtm 800-397-1098 airtich@ netcom.com  ever making a difference in the life of a child! Northern Minnesota coed summer recreational camp seeks qualified individuals to work as  FRIG,UTILITIES INCLUDED; SEC.DEP&LASTMONTH;NEAR NOTRE DAME. 272-1968. ALSO GRAD OR FACULTY  For Sale! I! Plane ticket to Boston (5/21) or Providence (5/20) b/o male or female ... call Jonathan x1047  REVEREND  FUNK  When is the next Pangborn sleep­over? I have my change of clothes and my breakfast grab and go!  
NATIONAL PARKS HIRING­Positions are now available at National Parks, Forests & Wildlife Preserves. Excellent benefits + bonuses! Call: 1-206-971-3620  cabin counselors who can also instruct in various activities. To apply contact Camp Foley, HCR 77 Box 172, Pine River, MN 56474 218-543-6161 or email at sbf­house@ uslink. net  UNIT: $375.00 PLUS UTILITIES; FURNISHED; SEC DEP&LAST MONTH; NEAR N.D. 272-1968. Need Summer Housing? Fully furnished 2 bedroom apt at  TICKETS (4) GARTH BROOKS INDY 3/29 BOB SEGER CHICAGO 5/9  winners of the NAZZ, funk freak show JAZZMAN'S FRIDAY NIGHT come & get a free funk injection watch out all you bookstore basket­ Squeal like a pig for me!!! Lupe Gonzalez--the sweet 15 (and 16 for me)--are we bad girls? No, I think that we're good .... ! think!  
.­ ext.N55846 RUDE AWAKWENING!  WANTED: Good people to earn money by becoming reps for EXCEL Telecommunications. Call  College Park for rent. Call X2915 for details. Room for Fall '96  272-7233 PERSONAL  batt players, Bond. James Bond is coming! Sunglasses found last Mon. 3/18 at  Observer Ad Design needs you! We are looking lor interested, Macintosh literate freshmen and  
Sexual Assault Awareness Week is coming! April14-18  299-1999 evenings. EASTERN EUROPE JOBS ­ 5-min drive! $250 inct utilities & extras! 1-4809/232-7175  0o0o0o0o0o0o0o0o0o0o0 QUALITY COPIES, QUICKL Y!l!  a S.B. restaurant. x4805 to claim.  Call Jen @  sophomores. Contact Jed at 4-1177 Oust like Papa John's).  
graduating senior looking for roo­ Teach basic English in Prague, Budapest, or Krakow. No teaching  Furnished Student Apts  THE COPY SHOP LaFortune Student Center  GRETCHEN JOHNSON, wishing you a GRAND opening of your tea  Sinnott sucks!  
mate for next year for Naperville/surrounding area. call  certificate or European languages required. Inexpensive Room &  Heat included -lg 1 bdrm, $330  Phone 631-COPY 0o0o0o0o0o0o0o0o0o0o0  sets' exhibit at Hammes Gallery, SMC, Friday, 29 March 6:30­ He's gay!  
kim 273-9840 ILOST & FOUND I Found: In Turtle Creek parking lot: Silver Braclet with little suns on it.  Board + other benefits. For info. call: (206)971-3680 ext.K55841 CRUISE SHIPS NOW HIRING ­Earn up to $2,000+/month working on Cruise Ships or Land-Tour com­panies. World travel. Seasonal &  -sm 1 bdrm, $260 755 South Bend Ave -1 block west of ND Ave deposit, references 1­800-582-9320 Need Summer Housing?  FAX IT FAST!!! Sending & Receiving at THE COPY SHOP LaFortune Student Center Our Fax# (219) 631-FAX1  8:30pm through 03 April. Congratulations on your artistic suc­cess! Love, Mom Jimmy Butter, The Great Sex Maker!  Sharon ... The Purdue pilgrimage is looming ahead. One Chris, One Hollywood and Two Parties make for tots of fun. Too bad you won't. be my chaffeur again. We wilt miss you as we sing La Bamba.  
,..  Call Brent at 273-6183 Lost: Notre Dame Student I D. Last seen exiting Regina on Thursday before break. If found call Mike O'Hara @273-6183. FOUND: Sunglasses at a restau­rant last Monday 3/18. Cai[Jen@  full-time employment available. No experience necessary. For more information calll-206-971-3550 ext. C55844 $Cruise Ships Hiring! Students Needed! $$$+Free Travel (Caribbean, Europe, Hawaii!) Seasonal/Permanent, No Exper. Necessary. Gde. 919-929-4398  Fully furnished 2 bedroom apt at College Park for rent. Call X2915 for details. NEED A PLACE THIS SUMMER? CALL US AT COLLEGE PARK CONDOS 273-1738  FAX IT FAST!!! It's coming .... the first Four Food Groups of the Apocalypse Anthology: "A WELL BALANCED MEAL." Hot diggedy damn! Happy 19th Bday Mary!!  SABOR LATINO Sat., March 30 10:30 pm Ctub23 SABOR LATINO Oh yeah ...we know who he is. Except we call him by his real name: The Ad Manager's Whipping  David Converse is the North Dining Hall god. Catch him and his side­kick at work next week. I promise you are in for a good show when they start to sit around and chat about the workings of life (and those bad things that we sweet, naive girts don't like to hear about...)  
X4805 I found a religious medallion in LaFortune last Friday night. If it belongs to you, call Rich at  extC1114 DO YOU KNOW WHAT YOU ARE DOING NEXT YEAR? TEACH FOR AMERICA IS LOOKING FOR  IRISH CO. B&B REGISTRY Stay at the "MOOSE KRAUSE HOUSE" or other approved homes. Grad. -Football games  Love, 1B FISHER REGATIA is coming April 13! Build your boat  Boy... FOR SALE -IBM comptbl. laptop computer (Compaq). 386, 4 MB RAM, internal modem (for  Hello, all you fellow flunkies! Do you feel alone, depressed, frustrat­ed? Here's the new solution, and it's catching on across the nation:  
.- 4·3314  WANTED  OUTSTANDING INDIVIDUALS TO TEACH UNDER-SERVED STU­DENTS IN URBAN AND RURAL AREAS. CALL 1-800-823-1230  219-277-7003 FOR SALE  now! Check with your halt presi­dents for an Entry Booklet. Check out our Website: http://www.nd.edu/-fisherlregatta  internet access), loaded with sottware(Word,MS Publisher, Excei,Powerpoint,etc.),color active matrix screen. Must sell!  DROP YOUR CURRENT MAJOR that's causing you all these prob­lems, and JOIN THE FOREST RANGERS' SOCIETY OF AMERI­ 
MOM'S HELPER  DEADLINE APRIL 3RD.  1990 two-door red Chevy Cavalier.  Questions? Call Kevin x1940 or Bill X3077. Ya Golla Regatta!  $799 or best offer. -maria x1573  CA!  
Love Babies?  Starting at $12/hr! The Princeton  Good condition.  Call Wendy at  Make your weekend complete with  Profit from the benefits of this new  
Assistance needed for 2 infants: newborn and 8 months. Late April thru Fall 50-20 hours 6.50/hr-10 a.m.· 1 p.m. prefered References required Tel. 272 3237 Leave message please, it machine answers.  Review is looking for qualified peo­ple to teach our test preparation programs. If you've earned high scores on the LSAT, GRE or SAT and would like to work 6-1 Ohrs in the evenings and on weekends, contact Michelle at ( (800)865-7737.  273-5818. $4000 or best offer. SONY CAR STEREO/CD PLAYER COX 5070, DETACHABLE FACE $200 call Steph 277-1440 SHARP PORTABLE STERE0,6­DtSC $100 STEPH 277-1440  Calif. actress-writer wife & photog­rapher husband wish to adopt new­born. Will provide love, nurturing environ., educ., financial security. Hollywood Hills home has large bac~ yard and loving dog. Call 818/241-5535 collect. Legal & Confidential.  a double dose of STOMPER BOB & THE 4x4s Friday-Corby's Pub Saturday-Bridget's "Oh her? She's just keeps hanging around. She's not bothering me too much ....  major, such as detailed Boy Scout and Girl Scout Trail Marking Techniques, chic orange and camoflauge jackets and a 25-year golden compass award. For more information, contact 284-4339 (SMC) or 634-1278 (ND).  


--~--~------------·--~~----~------------------------~~----~-----­
Friday, March 29, 1996 The Observer· SPORTS page 15 

Men's Final Four matchup 



Massachusetts Kentucky (35-1) ' (32-2)
1995-96 season statistics 
The Blad~ Law Stmlents Associ.-llion of Notre Dame Law Sdwol 
presents 

Reclaiming Society or Destroying Lives? 
A panel (liscussion on tbe effect of sentencing reforms, including" l ·J anll you' re out
luee stn ~es " 

atHl mamlatory sentencing witlwut parole laws, on inner-city, minority ant! youtb offenders in lowering crime rates 
Please join us on: 
Date:  Saturday, March 30, 1996  
Time:  1:30, PM  
Place:  Notre Dame Law  
School Courtroom  

Tltc Blad~ Law Sltulents Association of Notre Dame Law Sclwol 
presents 

uBridging the Racial Divide in America" 
featuring 

Derricl~ Bell 
Professor of Law, New York Univcrsfty Law Sclwol 
The Black Law Students Association is pleased to invite you to hear Professor Bell, a well-known and highly respected legal scholar and former Professor of Law at Harvard Law School and Dean of the University of Oregon Law School. Professor Bell left Harvard after serving on the faculty for eighteen years and the University of Oregon for the schools' refusals to hire and tenure women of color and other minority applicants to faculty posi­tions. Professor Bell is the author of four books on the law, his most recent being, Confronting Authority: Reflections of an Ardent Protester. 
All are welcome to attend and are encouraged to join us on: 
Date:  Saturday, March 30, 1996  
Tinte:  4:00, PM  
Place:  Hesburgh Auditorium,  
University of Notre Dame  

Freshman star considers NBA 
Happy 21st Woz! 
o need for DRAG from disguise your 

now that caDlpus friends"
·you're 
,;21! 

gathering of the National Association of Basketball Coaches. "Everything I've been hearing about caught me totally off guard. We are in the exploratory stage right now." 
Cremins said an announce­ment about Marbury's future will be made Tuesday or Wednesday. 
Donald Marbury Jr., one of Stephon's thren oldnr brothers, told the Daily News in New York the decision already has been made. 
"He's definitely coming out," Donald Marbury said. "That's what he wants to do. lie said, That's my dream. I just want to follow my dream."' 
But an NBA scout, speaking on condition he not be identi­fied, said there's no definite way to determine Marbury's draft standing because there several top underclassmen who haven't decided whether to leave school, including All-Americans Marcus Camby, Tim Duncan, All1m Iverson and Hay Allen. 
"He looks like he has a good opportunity to go fairly high," Cremins said. "But all this stuff (about leaving school) is mally prematurn." 
Marbury could not be reached for comment but said several weeks ago that he didn't think the transition to the NBA would be di!licult. ·~ 
As a freshman, hn averagnd 
18.9 points and 4.4 assists per game, leading the Yellow Jackets to the Atlantie Coast Confemnee wgular-season title. "for me, the NBA game will be a lot easier than college," Marbury said. 
"In college, they play all these 
.. 

triek defens1$: the box-and-one, the triangle-and-two. In the NBA, it's strietly one-on-one. If you ean go one-on-one, play defense and r.ateh tlw ball, you can go thew and bn successful in the NBA." 
Marbury's quiekness and ball­handling ability put him a step ahead of most point guards. If Iverson chooses to remain at Georgetown for another season, Marbury likely would be the first point guard seleetnd in the draft. 
"Point guards are born -not made," said Marty Blake, the NBA's director of scouting. "He's an excellent point guard with future NBA skills." 
Syracuse (28-8) 
76.5 68.4 46.5 40.8 188-526 195-675 70.2 62.5 38.7 37.0 17.4 14.3 
1995-96 season statistics 
AVG. POINTS OPP. AVG. POINTS FIELD GOAL PCT. OPP. FIELD GOAL PCT. 3-PT. FGM-FGA OPP. 3-PT. FGM-FGA FREE THROW PCT. OPP. FREE THROW PCT. REBOUND AVG. OPP. REBOUND AVG. ASSISTAVG. OPP. ASSIST AVG. 
-------~--____________________J 
AP 
73.2 65.2 47.9 38.3 203-530 236-729 70.9 69.9 38.9 33.0 15.1 11.3 74.8 61.8 45.4 38.4 157-448 160-538 68.0 68.7 40.2 34.3 15.0 10.5 

AVG. POINTS OPP. AVG. POINTS FIELD GOAL PCT. OPP. FIELDGOAL PCT. 3-PT. FGM-FGA OPP. 3-PT. FGM-FGA FREE THROW PCT. OPP. FREE THROW PCT. REBOUND AVG. OPP. REBOUND AVG. ASSISTAVG. OPP. ASSIST AVG. 
92.2 69.3 48.9 41.1 251-634 182-545 71.4 67.0 41.9 35.8 21.8 16.4 

By PAUL NEWBERRY Associated Press 
NEWYOBK 

Is one season at Georgia Tech enough to convince Stephon Marbury he's ready to play in the NBA? 
One of Marbury's older broth­ers said the freshman guard will enter the NBA draft, but Yellow Jackets coach Bobby Cremins insists Marbury is still consider­ing his options. 
"No, Stephon has not made the final decision," Cremins said Thursday as he arrived in New York for the Final Four and a 
AP 

page 16 The Observer· SPORTS Friday, March 29, 1996 
• MAJOR lEAGUE BASEBAll 


Boys of summer prepare for upcoming openers 
Associated Press 
Bobby Bonilla won't be start­ing in right field, and he won't be at third base. The Baltimore Orioles have a new spot for him -designated hitter. 
"Bobby is very valuable to us," manager Davey Johnson said. "He'll be our cleanup hit­ter all year long." 
Johnson revealed his tentative lineup Thursday, and the biggest surprise was that Tony Tarasco will be starting in right field instead of Bonilla when the Orioles open Monday against Kansas City. At third will be B.J. SurhoiT. 
Johnson said his decision is no reflection of Bonilla's defense. 'He's a good outfielder and a good third baseman, but we'd like to give some of our younger players an opportunity to play the outfield on an every-day basis." Johnson said. "Bobby will eventually play the field, but early on we want him to play 
DH." 
Surhoff overcame a rocky start to claim the third base job. Johnson told Bonilla that early on he would be an "insurance policy" at third and the outfield. 
"It's a little disappointing, but I'll do what it takes," Bonilla said. "I don't want to rock the boat." 
On Thursday, Bonilla hit a two-run homer and an RBI sin­gle as the designated hitter in the Orioles' 12-5 exhibition loss to Atlanta. 
The Orioles reduced their ros­

ter to 26 players -one over the 
limit -by optioning outfielder 
Mark Smith and left-bander 

Don't Get 
Left Out 
In The Cold 
Heat is Included 
in Your Rent! 
Plus Gas For Cooking &Hot Water 
Efficiencies from $290 
1-Bedrooms from $305 
2-Bedrooms from $375 
24-Hr. Emergency Maintenance Free Aerobics Classes Attentive Staff Community Activities Pool &Sundeck Clubhouse Air Conditioning Laundry Facilities Cable TV Available Beautiful Landscaping Close to Shopping 
272-1880 
Call or stop by today and we'll show you how great living at Hickory Village can be. 
+llCKORlJ DlLLAqEU 
Mon.-Fri. B-6, Sat. 10-4 & Sun. 12-4 

Rick Krivda to Rochester, and assigning reliever Keith Shepherd to their minor-league camp. 
Twins 
Kirby Puckett reported vision problems, and was being tested by specialists. 
Team physician Len Michienzi said it was too early to tell whether the problem was seri­ous, but doubted it was related to Puckett's beaning by Cleveland's Dennis Martinez on Sept. 28, 1995. 
Puckett flew to Baltimore's Johns Hopkins eye clinic. His status for Minnesota's opener Monday against Detroit was unknown. 
"I never had any problems with my eye before," Puckett said. "Everything was going great this spring. But right now, I'm not worried about opening day. My health is the most important thing. 
"The doctor said this could clear up in a day, a week or more. We don't know. If I can't see, I can't play.... It's kind of a waiting game now." 
Red Sox 
Kevin Mitchell and Stan Belinda, both essential to Boston's chances at winning another AL East title, probably will not be on the opening-day roster. 
Red Sox manager Kevin 

Kennedy _ acknowledged Thursday that Mitchell, a late­signing free agent who missed the first month of camp, will probably stay in Florida to work on his hitting. Belinda, who's recovering from tendinitis, might start the season on the disabled list. 
"I want to make sure the 25 I take can help us win a game," Kennedy said. "It's not spring training anymore." 
White Sox 
Darren Lewis thinks he's com­ing down with something only the start of the season can cure. 
''I'm getting the spring train­ing blues," he said after an 0­for-4 outing in Chicago's 4-3 victory over Texas on a cold, rainy day before a small crowd at Nashville, Tenn. "You just can't wait for the season to start." 
Cardinals 
St. Louis trimmed its roster to 27 by returning second base­man Geronimo Pena and pitcher Matt Morris to the minors, and placing four players on the dis­abled list. 
Pitchers Mark Petkovsek (inflamed right rotator cum and Mike Morgan (sore right shoul­der) were placed on the 15-day disabled list. Joining them were infielder Mike Gallego (strained right hamstring) and pitcher Donovan Osborne (broken rib). 


They Shelled it out for your orthodontist bills. Ox.Jglted. it up for your car insurance. And forked it over for that fish tank accident. Yet they still insist you call COllect. 
Touched by their undying love, you spare them further expense. You dial 1 800 CALL ATT. 
1 800 CALL MT always costs less than t-soo-coLLECT.* And always gets you the reliable Al~ Network. 
Use it wlteuet•er you're o.ff camfJus. 
Know the Code. 1 800 CALL ATT. That's Your True Choice:'M 
-

AT&T 
Your True Choice 
• For interstate calls. Promotions excluded. 1-800-COLLECT is a registered trademark of MCI. 
© 1996 A'l&T 


What You Can Win $1.000,000 IN CASH AND PRIZES! 
• 
Compete on the League Level (25 teams per league), Divisional Level (6 divisions in U.S.) and National Level. 

• 
Prizes include: -Dodge Viper'" -13 Dodge'" Trucks (new contest every other week) -Trips to the 1996 All-Star game and 


World Series'" -Satellite dishes • Big Screen TV's -Sports memorabilia and merchandise 
-And much, much more 
What You"ll Receive lor $99.95 -Includes Enlrv lo '96 Fanlasv Baseball 
• 
Soft shelled Arctic Zone"' tote cooler. 

• 
Fanatics Only shirt and bas~ball cap. 

• 
Stats Book from STATS, Inc." 


('95 Stats, '96 Projections). • MCI I FOX Sports Pager Certificate.• 
• 
Game book with league rules, player rosters, salary cap info and line-up cards. 

• 
Manager's Phone Card from MCI with one hour free phone time -for exclusive use with Fanatics Only Baseball. 

• 
Access to STATS, Inc~ Baseball Info Line. 


CAll NOWI 1-800-215-1660 

How to Plav 
• 
Use the Manager's Phone Card from MCI to call and play the game. 

• 
Each team consists of 18 players ­6 pitchers (3 starters + 3 relievers), a player at each of the eight fielding positions, an extra OF, 2 extra IF and an extra catcher. 

• 
See "Scoring Formula" below. 

• 
All teams restricted by salary cap. 

• 
You can make up to two "roster changes" per week. 

• 
Scores and standings updated daily ­available by phone, fax or mail service. 

• 
Complete details in game books. 


FANAnCS ONLY I STATS. INC BASEBALL SCORING mRMULA 
HITTING PERFORMANCE, PfTCIIING PERFORMANCE, nnDIIO PERFORMANCE, 
IYEE QE ELAY EQii'ilS QllrulQBl' EQii'ilS IYEE QE ELAY EQii'ilS 
GRAND SLAM 6 PERFECT GAME 25 ERROR ·1 HOME RUN 4 NOHITIER 10 ROUTINE 0 TRIPLE 3 WIN 6 GOOD 1 DOUBLE 2 SAVE 6 OUTSTANDING 2 SINGLE 1 SHUTOUT 3 RUN 1 INNINGS PITCHED 2 RBI 1 STRIKE OUT 1 STOLEN BASE 1 LOSS ·3 BASE ON BALLS 0.5 BLOWN SAVE ·3 
/""' 
•

AT BAT ·0.2 HIT ·1 SACRIFICE 0.5 EARNED RUN ·1 ~~·ros ~ HIT INTO DBL PLAY ·1 WILD PITCH ·1 HIT INTO TRPL PLAY WALK ·1
·1 ··:-········· . r , 
STRIKEOUT ·1 HOLD 3 CAUGHT STEALING ·1 
How to Join 
• 
Call the 800 number below and pay just $9995 plus $995 S & H for an entire season of baseball fun. We'll rush you your fantasy kit and merchandise. 

• 
NO HIDDEN COSTS and NO CHARGE FOR ROSTER CHANGES. 

• 
Join with friends and compete against them all season. 

• 
Fantasy League Commissioners -call 


(800) 215-1660 "Commissioners Only Hotline" about discounts for entering your entire league. 


·cu1tomer wm receiVe an MCI/ FOX Spor1a Pager Certlhcate valued at up to 566 to uae towards Sports Now pag1ng aeMCe lor arlher a purcha&e or lease option 
No purchaH necnNty lo ~V lanteay conl8at portJon ot Fant~tlct Only Fantaey Baseball Alternate mall·ln meana olantry dolls not Include tha FanatrCtil boaebatl hal. l·lhll1. 12·pack cooler and MCI f FOX Spons Pager Certrlleate Nor Cloeslllnclude the rule book. player roller or MCt phOne card For rntonn.t10n on Itt. alternate majHn muna ol entry. lend a &etl·addrHNd •tam!)«~ 1\0 en~loptl With your requell. InCluding your name. adclr•••· Clly, alate, ztp, telephone number and Social Security number, hand·prlntecl on a 3 X 5 card to· Fanatica On~. P.O. Box 1444, Young America. MN 55594· 1444 Realdenta ol WANT may omit return postage. This contest bagtna 3131196 anct ends at lhl aod ol regular ua.aon You mutt be a U S relldenl 18 Of oldtr to play Void In LOUIIIana and where prohrbllltd There II a \\ffijt ol IWo ~me kill and two antnes per participant You may return Itt. entrre set wrthln thrrty days lor a lull ralund, so long as you have not activated yoor PIN Number and materlale are In unuaed condition Odda ol wlnn~ng depend upon sktll of entrant. performance ol playel"l and number ~ ctn!filll Employeu. olflcara and dlractorl ol Fanabel Only, lhetr agencies. efflltat", and/or sublldlefiaa, compantaa engaged In the conduct ol thlt contest and their Immediate lamtllel are not eligible to play In the event ot a lie lor a league or I'IBIIOflal prize. the winner will be the contestant wrth the htgheat score the prevroos week Th11 conteat 11 not alllhatiKI With MLB MCI 11 a ~ratariKI Hrvtea marK o1 MCI 
Commuoattonl Cofpofattoo 
---------~----~--------------~---­
page 18 The Observer· SPORTS Friday, March 29, 1996 
• fENCING • WOMEN'S TENNIS 
NCAA's on tap for fencers 6th ranked Irish solidify 
By WILLY BAUER 
Sports Writer 
Topping last year's third place finish is on the minds of all eight of Notre Dame's fencers attend­ing the NCAA championships at Yale this weekend. The contin­gent consists of this year's best and brightest Irish fencers. 
The strongest teams for the Irish will send the maximum of two fencers. For women's foil, freshmen Sara Walsh and Myriah Brown will try to con­tinue thek successes. Walsh is considered one of the best in the field going into the competition. Walsh bested the defending champion from Penn State earli­er in the year. 
Brown has also fared well, in

--
addition to matching Walsh's 80 wins, she fenced well against the defending champ from the Nittany Lions losing 5-4. 
On the men's side, Bill Lester and Luke LaValle also look to grab the Irish some much need­ed team points. Lester was the runner-up last year at the NCAAs and has fenced well this year. He won the Midwest sabre title as a freshman and contributed key victories early in the season when Lester stum­bled a bit due to an illness. 
The women's epee team also looks to contend. Claudette de Bruin, a senior, looks to im­prove on last year's third place finish. 
After fmishing third behind de Bruin at the Midwest champi­onships, Anne Hoos will make her first trip to the NCAAs. Hoos had a 76-18 record this season. 
The final two contestants are Jeremy Siek and Brice Dille. Sick, a foilist, hopes to attain his 1994 level where he finished 
• MEN'S TENNIS 

Irish look to regain confidence 
By JOE CAVATO 
Sports Writer 
If there will be a time when the Notre Dame men's tennis team is up against the wall, now is that time. 
The Irish have lost four of their last five and have seen their record once at 6-1 to fall to 9-6. 
This Sunday the squad will try to turn things around and get back on the winning track as they square off against regional foe Indiana. 
The Irish still stand at 6-0 in the Midwest Hegion and will finish the last six regular sea­son matches with five in their region including matches against the very tough Northwestern Wildcats and fourteenth ranked Michigan Wolverines. 
After competing in five matches over the last two weekends the team has had some time to recuperate and get some solid days of practice. 

fifth. This year he has been one 
singles slots for 'Dawgs
of most consistent foilists, with a 66-6 record and coming in sec­ond place at the Midwest By KATHLEEN Championships. Siek should LOPEZ challenge for the title against Spons Writer 
Thorston Becker from Wayne State. Becker beat Sick twice this season 5-4. 
Dille is the team's surprise en­trant. He came through at the Midwest regionals finishing in fourth place. He had one of the best records for the often strug­gling epee team, 50-36. 
"I kept saying all season we needed more contribution from the epee team," said Auriol. "Both guys made the finals at the regionals though. Siek had a good season." 
Penn State is the favorite again this season. The Nittany Lions are defending its crown and boasts the women's foil champion. 
"We have had a really good and Jason Pun who have start­week of practice,H commented ed off quickly but struggled in captain Mike Sprouse. "We fi­the past two weekends. nally got a chance to work on The No. 2 doubles duo of some things." Pietrowski and Patterson, after 
The Hoosiers rate around being formed at mid-season tenth in the 18 team regional have been leading the way in and are lead by super sopho­double play, most recently up­more Derek Pope, who was setting the No 15 doubles ranked in the top twenty at the squad from Duke. end of the fall season. As the team heads into their 
After leading the team early final six matches before Big in the season the No. 1 and 2 East Tournament play and singles players Sprouse and NCAA Regionals, they will look Jakup Pietrowski have allowed to rebuild their once unshaken junior Ryan Simme and fresh­confidence. man Brian Patterson to carry "Right now we need a win," the weight of the team more Sprouse expressed. "We need recently. to get some confidence in each 
Head coach Bobby Bayliss other. It has nothing to do would like to solve the current with tennis, we simply need to inconsistency problem the Irish gain some confidence before have faced. post-season play. 
"Early in the year Mike and need to win the doubles point playing the second spot, and right ofT. That way we can get Crabtree will play No. 3 singles. momentum going as we head At No.4 singles will be the other into singles play." freshman, Marisa Velasco. And 
The Irish have  
Georgia on their  
mind, as they head  
down South this  
weekend to take on  
the Bulldogs. The  
No. 6 women's tennis  
team are looking to  
continue their hot  
streak. They take on  
Georgia on the  
Bulldog's home  
courts this Saturday.  
"We are on a roll,"  
stated senior captain  
Wendy Crabtree,  
"This weekend  
marks the start of  
some tough matches  
for us. Basically we  
are looking to step  
up our play against  
the Bulldogs. The  
key is for us to be  
confident."  
"Once again the  
key for us is to get a head start," stated The Observer/Brandon Candura  
head coach Jay  Freshman Jennifer Hall must continue to shine  
Louderback, "We  to keep the Irish rolling.  

The Irish line-up is fairly set rounding out the final two spots for the singles competition. will be junior Erin Gowen and Freshmen sensation Jennifer sophomore Kelley Olson. llall will find herself occupying The doubles lineup remains the No.1 spot. Hall has filled in constant. At No. 1 doubles will the spot for the Irish. She took be Lord and Crabtree. Then at over for Crabtree, who has been the second spot will be Gowen slowed down this season due to and Hall. The final pair will an ankle injury which she sus-consist of Velasco and Olson. tained this fall. The Irish are looking to step up 
According to Louderback, Hall their play in anticipation for the has been a valuable asset to the forthcoming matches. The team team, who has filled in wherever is not looking too far ahead, and she is needed. they know that Georgia is still 
Senior Holyn Lord will be an obstacle. 
Jakup carried the weight but recently it has been John J. 
RESERVE OFFICERS' TRAINING C 0 R P S 
O'Brien," Bayliss mentioned. 
Bayliss will be also looking to see some improvement in the top doubles tandem of Sprouse 


"A DYNAMITE CAST! SPELLBINDING! 
A Demonically funny Thriller." 
fill•• h•m !$!ll'ii l1$1tl 
SHPKfN GABHIU B£NICIO CRAll KEVIN PHi m'l~ BMDIV!N BYRN[ OH fnRO PAiMINHRI POlUI P0~1HTHWAIH mm 
SUMMER SCHOOL FOR PEOPLE 
ON THEIR WAY TO THE TOP. 
If you didn't sign up for ROTC as a By the time you have graduated from freshman or sophomore, you can still college, you'll have the credentials of catch up to your classmates by -=~ an Army officer. You'll also have attending Army ROTC Camp Chal-the self-confidence and discipline lenge, a paid six-week summer it takes to succeed in college and course in leadership training. beyond. 


ARMY ROTC 
TIE SMARTEST COWGE COURSE YOU tAN TAlE. 
For details, visit Pasquerilla Center or call 631-6986 

.---------~--------~----------------~-~~--------------------------------------­
Friday, March 29, 1996 The Observer· SPORTS page 19 




Irish feeling right at home 
By DYLAN BARMMER  Sycamores marked the first  er me that much whether I'm  
Assistant Sports Editor  Lime in twenty-one games that  pitching  on  the  road  or  at  

 the 14-7 Irish had the oppor­ home, but it is a good feeling to  
On a bitterly cold late March  tunity to relax in their own  be back home."  
afternoon, a day too cold to de­ clubhouse following a game.  The Irish, who will follow a  
lude one into thinking spring  "It was just neat getting our  weekend series at Villanova  
had arrived yet,  the Notre  first game in here on the home  with  13  straight games  at  
Dame baseball team took the  field, to open it up with a win,"  home, should learn to enjoy the  
field at Frank Eck stadium.  commented DH Jeff Wagner fol­ feeling.  Of the team's remain­ 
The game, which saw the  lowing the victory.  "I was glad  ing 34 regular season games,  
Irish down Indiana State 5-4 in  that I could be a part of it."  26 of those games will be at the  
front of a handful of Irish faith­ The game was the first ever for  Eck.  
ful, was less than spectacular,  Wagner, a freshman who con­ "It will be fun to get in the  
as the two teams combined to  tinued to aid the Irish cause,  groove and start playing our  
commit eight errors and squan­ turning in a 2-3, two RBI per­ games at horne," said the laid­ 
der numerous scoring opportu­ formance.  back Wagner.  "It's a lot easier  
nities.  But all that really mat­ Another  freshman  who  on  the body too, you know,  
- tered was that the Irish had  played a big part in the Irish's  staying at home instead of trav­ 
come home.  first home win was pitcher Alex  eling every weekend, coming  

 "When we were out there at  Shilliday, who earned his sec­ back and then going back out  
The Observer/Bob F1nch Sophomore Kelly Nichols comes off the mound to make a stop.  the beginning, it was hard to  ond save with a three inning,  on the road."  
remember the last day of fall  four hit, four strikeout showing  So will the day soon come  
home runs (2). and sluggingBig East percentage (.489). The Irish will need her offen­continued from page 24 sive production this weekend if they arc to continue their win­eomrrwntnd Coaeh Miller. ning ways. The Butgen; squad Sonwono olso oxpoctod to b1~ should provide yet another on tho diamond this weekend stern challenge for Notre is o!Tnnsivn star Mt~gan Dame. "The scouting report Murray. Ovnr llw last fnw says they're a pretty good days, Murray has bnen struck team," said Miller. hy the samn flu hug that a cou­"They have six or seven plo othPr tnam nwmhers had stmiors who are all very good. rontraelt~d. Because this is the !'irst lime "IMurrayl practiced today, we have played them, we and a liltlo ynstNday," noted a haven't seen them play yet." rPiinvt~d Mitior. "She's not Nevertheless, the Irish travel hack a II t h ~~ way, but s h n to New Jersey to extend their should play." Curnmtly, slw is six-game winning strnak, and, the team IPadPr in hits (301, dare we say, keep the jugger­runs srornd (201, HBI (I <JI. naut rolling right along. r----------------,1 NAILS BY JODY 1  practice, which was the last time we were on the field," mused head coach Paul Mainicri. "It was great to be back, though, it really was. It was just great to be able to play a game at home, and I think the kids were really excited about being back out here." The win against the Eagles continued from page 24 although he was still not quite able to overcome the control problems which have plagued him all season long. "For the most part, I thought Craig's performance was very encouraging," said coach Paul Mainieri following the game." IIe could be a real key guy for  in relief of winner Gregg Henebry. "I really feel fortunate to have gotten in this game," com­mented Shilliday, who dis­played a veteran's poise in pitching out of numerous jams late in the game. "It was a great feeling to be out there. I try to make it so it doesn't both-around." First baseman George Hestovich got the Irish on the board in the first inning when he slapped an RBI triple over the head of right fielder Hob Bruce, bringing Rowan Bichards, who had reached base after being beaned by los­ing pitcher Doug Kirar, home from second. Northeastern Illinois would knot the score at 1-1 on a Matt Dunne single in the second, and  when Eck will be graced with the presence of a horde of cheering Notre Dame baseball fans? Don't count on it. "We won't get those (crowds) for awhile," said Wagner. "When it starts warming up, we'll get the fans." Good thing there's so many home games left. Paul Turco along with sacrifice flies from Mike Amrhein and Handall Brooks to put the Irish in position to secure the win. Handall Brooks went 2-2 to up his team-high average to .435 on the season, and Bestovich finished 1-5 with two RBI, pushing his team lead in that department to 22. "I tried to make a few adjust­ments, keep things simple out there," said Hestovich, who has been mired in a bit of a slump  


us down the stretch." Restovich again put the Irish as of late. "Things came to­
IReflect your image with elegant nails I "I didn't pitch great today, ahead on a fielder's choice gether a little bit better today." but it was good to get the win," which scored center fielder The Irish will bring their
I Bring in this ad and receive lO'llc> OFF any nail service I said Allen, whose five inning, Scott Sollmann, who had three game winning streak to 
I Call for an tment I three hit performance moved reached first via a walk before Philadelphia this weekend, him to 1-3 on the year. "The stealing both second and third when they meet Big East last few times out there I've base. National rivals Villanova for a pitched a little bit better, and I The Irish would jump out to a three game series. The just hope that I can help this 6-1 lead by the end of the fifth Wildcats are currently tied with team out by the time the con­inning, using run scoring sin­the Irish atop the National with ference tournament rolls gles by Rowan Bichards and a 3-1 mark in conference play. 
e concentration in Philosophy. Politics, and Economics (PPE) is designe 
faculty and undergraduates with special interests in the intersecting area political philosophy, political theory, and economic analysis. Many of our ents go on to further work in law, public policy, and the foundations of 
E has three main attractions: 
• 
PPE integrates different approaches to foundational issues in political justice in a way not usually possible merely with a second major (and also requires many fewer courses than a second major); 

• 
PPE students interact closely with faculty members, in courses as well as less formally in advising and conversation (the student/faculty ratio in PPE's seminars and colloquia is about 10:1 ); 

• 
PPE students develop an intellectual community among themselves, especially through the justice Seminar, PPE's intensive gateway seminar. 


year about twenty highly motivated and talented students are admitted PPE; check it out to see if it is for you. You can call one of PPE's student 
nts for the inside scoop: Karla Arenas 4-3881 Sheila Moloney 273-5178 Hans Detlefsen 4-0675 Michael Williams 4-4681 
-
can also contact Professor David O'Connor. the director of PPE, at 1-6226, O'Connor.2 @nd.edu. 
Need I say more? Toy S'tory. 
TIONS and further infonnation are available outside Professor O'Connor's 
Fri./Sat. 8:00pm & I 0:30pm 
ice, 307 Decio, and at the Philosophy Department, 336 O'Shag.


Sunday 2:00pm 

e application deadline is April 11, 1996.


$2.00 in Cushing 


-~-­~----~  - -~ --~~-­----~­-~~­~----­ 
page 20 The Observer • SPORTS  Friday, March 29, 1996  
~~-------------------------~~  

• SPRING fOOTBAll 


The Irish are looking for their young defensive backs like freshman A'Jani Sanders (left) and sophomore Jarvis Edison (39)to fill the void left by graduating seniors ..uch as LaRon Moore and Brian Magee. The secondary has been an area of significant concern for head coach Lou Holtz in the past few seasons. 

Sanders steps to the forefront 
By JOE VILLINSKI 
Associate Sports Editor 

At his initial spring football press conference, head coach Lou Holtz designated two major areas which concern him heading into next season. 
Those areas included the lack of a game-breaker in the receiving core and the heavy losses to graduation in the sec­ondary. 
The secondary dilemma has become a primary concern to Holtz. 
"Secondary is a problem," Holtz said. "We lost three starters in the secondary." 
While, a certain amount of experience still exists at the cornerback spot, the departure of LaRon Moore and Brian Magee leaves both safety posi­tions up in the air this spring. 
Nothing safe about that. 

"Safety is a problem," Holtz admits. "But right now the two frontrunners would be A'Jani Sanders and Jarvis Edison or Ty Goode, those three. Then, Benny Guilbeaux has a chance and possibly Mario Strayhorn." 
Among these three, Edison has the only experience after being the top backup to Moore last year. 
His' action, however, was lim­ited in six games last year after suffering a lacerated liver against Texas. Due to a wrist injury. Edison currently has a cast on his arm that will be removed on April 3. 
"Based on experience Jarvis has the upper-hand," defensive backfield coach Torn McMahon added. "But we're going to base it on performance as well." 
Going from the sidelines to playing every down may not be easy at first, but McMahon be­lieves raised expectations about the freshman will help. 
"I think the expectations are that they are going to be full­time players," he said. 
"With that expectation, their expectations can come up and I expect them to be a lot better players because of the fact they know it's their time to play." 
"It's actually kind of scary," Sanders admitted. "You know it's an adjustment, but it's nothing really we can't han­dle." 
Sanders may be called upon to handle the strong safety spot along with Guilbeaux. 
Even though he did not see action last season, Sanders is highly regarded by the coach­ing staff. 
Holtz cited Sanders as a player he was anxious to see during spring practice. 
"He's (Sanders) a great ath­lete and he's really smart," McMahon commented. "Obviously experience is the biggest factor and none of the safeties other than Jarvis have that. It's a case of really good athletes without very much ex­perience." 
As is typical in spring foot­ball, the 5-11 Sanders is excit­ed about the opportunity in front of him. 
"The attitude is positive and everybody's looking forward to making some good adjust­ments," Sanders said. "Right now there's competition, but at my position I'm starting to get more playing time and learn­ing nickel and dime situations and things like that." 
Competing with Edison will be Goode who has been moved from cornerback to the free safety spot. Goode, who played in eight games in 1995, was also high on Holtz's list Wednesday. 
"Right now we've got him at free (safety) so he can settle in and learn that position," McMahon said. 
"The guy that I think can be a fine, fine football player and is really talented but nobody knows it because he hasn't shown it is Ty Goode," Holtz added. 
"He has better speed than anybody thinks. He just has to gain some confidence." 

Guilbeaux is a candidate at the strong safety spot after contributing on special teams last year. 
At 6-2, 202 pounds, Guilbeaux, like Edison, pre­sents an intimidating force in the secondary. 
"Benny's a bigger, stronger guy," McMahon added. "They all have their strengths and hopefully we can just put them in positions to play toward that strength." 
McMahon's optimistic senti­ments at the end of practice Wednesday echoed Holtz's comments earlier that day re­garding the extremely positive attitude present on this spring squad. 
"So far we're undefeated," McMahon said. "You can't have a bad attitude if you're undefeated, can you?" 
-
4 Goon REASONS To CALL THE HuDDLE FoR DELIVERY ,r ----------, r ---------­I I I I Any Large 14" Pizza Only $5.99 Large 14" Cheese Pizza Only $4.99 I IThe Best Pizza at the Best Price I INow, That's a Deal! Calll-6902I I Call 1-6902 I I COUPON EXPIRES 5/20/96 -1 COUPON EXPIRES 5/20/96 -1I­I­-DOUBLE DEAL___ -­---------­---------­------­I 1 I I 2 Large 14" Unlimited Topping Pizzas You get 2 Large 14" 1 item II I Iand a 2-liter Coke Product Only $10.99 Pizzas for Only $9.99 Cal/1-6902 Call 1-6902 II I I COUPON EXPIRES 5/20/96 I COUPON EXPIRES 5/20/96 IL L----------­----------­CALL THE HUDDLE AT 1-6902 We'll meet or beat any competitors coupon or deal, just call us and ask. We Deliver 7 days a week-lunch, dinner and late nite.  

l  
l  
Friday, March 29, 1996 The Observer • SPORTS page 21 --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~=--­ I I  
• SPRING fOOTBALL  I i  
I  

Hoosiers hopes ride on arm of Haniford 
BI.OOMIN(;TON. Ind. 
Chris l>itl01~ has a big ineen­tivn to do well in spring prae­tictL Otlwrwise, he may lind himself stuck on the sideline wlwn I·:arlllaniford arrives on campus this fall. 
I>ilton, Indiana's inc:umbent quartnrhaek, had a disappointing junior snason last year as tlw Iloosinrs stumbled to a 2-9 reeord. Coat:h Bill Mallory successfully rnc:ruitnd llanil'ord. the Indiana high sehool Mr. Football from Marlinsvilln, but l>itlol' is still pt~neih~d in as llw starter during spring drills. 
"I really feel good about Chris." Mallory said. "ll's a matlnr of him gelling in along wilh PVPrybody and pulling evl'rything togPthPr. J(p's eav;nr." 
I>ilton eomplt~tl'd 52 JWrnmt of his passes and throw for 
I.214 yards last ytwr. But only thn~e t·ompiP.tions wt~nt for touchdowns, and lw was intt~rreptml twice that num­hl'r. llilto1~ is liswd No. I dur­ing llw spring, with sopho­morl' .Jeff Kirn and rmlshirt freshm1n1 .lay Hodg1n·s and Brad Weber conWsting for thn barkup role. That c:ould ehange, however, with the ar­rival of' the 6-l'oot-3 llaniford, who set stato high school ea­rner rnmrds with 685 comple­tions. 1,088 attempts, 11,110 yards passing, 111 touch­downs and a completion per­centage of' .636. 
Almady nnw to the lloosiers is quarterbacks coach Kit DnWitt, who will coordinate the lloosinrs' passing game. 
"It's similar to some of the things we've done in the past. It's not l'ornign," Mallory said. "Tlwrn'II be some new wrin­kles. Them will be more of a tight end involvement. both in the passing game and being in there to help us on protec­tion." 
For the spring, the lloosiers an~ without end Brady Shields and fullh;u~k Sttwe Lee, both of whom had shoulder surgery after last season. Nathan Davis, the only returning starter on the defensive line, also is not practicing this spring in ordnr to concentrate on the shot put with the IU track tmun. 
Back with the Hoosiers is defensive tackle Bo Barzilauskas, another former Mr. Football who received pormission to rejoin the team aftt~r taking last year oil'. 
EARN CASH by DONATING 
You could earn: 

$30°0 atter your first plasma donation! 
$1500  if you donate alone (first visit)  
+$ 5°0  if you show college 1.0. (first visit)  
+$1 000  per person if you recruit someone and they donate  

$30°0 TOTAl! 
Help Us Save Lives Must be 18 years old; proof of current address with photo I. D. 
COME TO: HOURS: 
AMERICAN BIOMEDICAL T-F: 9-6 515 LINCOLNWAY WEST SAT: 8-5 SOUTH BEND, IN 46601-1117 234-6010 
Follow the Fighting Irish to 




Ireland 
Visit the Cork Jazz Festival 


Panther recovering from injury 
Associated Press 
PITTSBUHGH 

Demale Stanley, the Pitt re­ceiver who was seriously in­jured during last week's prac­tice, was upgraded from critical to serious condition at University of Pittsburgh Medical Center. 
Stanley, a freshman receiver from Belle Glade, Fla., broke his neck and sustained spinal cord damage as he bumped into a padded wall while Pitt prac­ticed at its Cost Center indoor complex. 
Emergency surgery was per­formed that night. Hospital visi­tors reported some movement in Stanley's left shoulder and arm had returned by Tuesday. 
Pitt officials, acting upon the family's request, have not an­nounced the extent of Stanley's injuries or if he will have any paralysis. 
Stanley, 19, is the son of 
Wayne Stanley, a former Iowa State player who was an assis­tant coach at Ohio State from 1979-83. 
Another Stanley son, Dimitrious, is a junior wide re­ceiver at Ohio State. 
Pitt coach Johnny Majors can­celed practice Saturday, but the Panthers resumed workouts Tuesday. 
The Blue-Gold spring game is scheduled April 13 at Pitt Stadium. 

Purdue looks for bench strength 
Associated Press 
WEST LAFAYETrE, Ind. Purdue ended last season with a .big victory and a big loss. ­
The Old Oaken Bucket win over Indiana sweetened yet an­other disappointing season for the Boilermakers, but the de­parture of record-setting Mike Alstott left coach .lim Colletto scrambling for a replacement at fullback. 
During spring practice, that job has been given to Edwin Watson, who has been switched from tailback. 
"IIow he adjusts to that" is one of the questions as Colletto begins preparing for his sixth year with the Boilermakers, still looking for his first winning sea­son. 
Colletto has 14 starters back from a team that finished 4-6-1 overall and 2-5-1 and ninth place in the Big Ten. Among the other goals during spring drills is "to improve the fundamental playing of the game" for every­one, particularly on defense, which returns eight starters, he said. 
Another goal is to shore up the reserves. 
"We pretty much know who the starters are, but it's going to be the guys who will have to play as subs or when injuries hit that will be important. In some areas, those guys need a lot of work," Colletto said. 
The biggest loss, of course, was Alstott, who finished with Purdue records of 3,635 rushing yards, 39 touchdowns and 256 points. lie had 264 yards and three touchdowns in his final game, a 51-14 romp over Indiana. 

Among the freshmen runners who could help Purdue in the fall is 6-foot-4, 225-pound Cullen Bryant .Jr., whose father played 13 years in the NFL. 
Rick Trefzger will return for his senior season at quarter­back, ·and Billy Dicken will try to rebound from a shoulder injury. John Reeves will not play this spring because of a recent bout with bacterial meningitis. 
Beeves was redshirted as a freshman and played in six games last year, including a start at Ohio State. 
Dicken played at defensive back last season while recover­ing from a dislocated shoulder and rotator euiT problems. 
"His distance is better. lie can throw it long," Colletto said. 
"He has much more velocity on it. He still has to wind up a little bit, but I would think by August, if he keeps improving at the rate he has been, he should be line." 
Among the other offensive starters returning this year arc receivers Kirk Olivadotti and Brian Alford, guards Emmett Zitelli, Mark Fischer and Damon Lewis and tackle John Hoogendoorn. 
Top defensive players coming back include linebackers Chike Okeafor and .Joe Hagins, line· men Jon Kriek, Greg Smith, Leo Perez and Craig Williams, and backs .lame! Coleman, Derrick Winston, Derrick Brown and Willie Burroughs. 
The Boilermakers lost both punter Hob Deignan and kicker Brad Bobich. 
Three junior college transfers -defensive end Hobert Faulkner, linebacker Doug Withers and placekicker Chris Arnce -also are getting close looks this spring. 
ERASMUS BOOKS 
•Used 
books bought and sold 

•25 
categories of Books 

•25,000 
Hardback and Paperback books in stock 

•Out-of-Print 
Search Service: $2.00 

•Appraisals 
large and small Open noon to six Tuesday through Sunday 1027 E. Wayne 


South Bend, IN 46617 (219)232-8444 
IRISH CouNTRY BEo &BREAKFAST REGISTRY 
The Preferred Registry 
Stay at the 

Moose Krallse Hollse 
or other approved homes for Graduation, Football Weekends, and Special Events 
Call (219)277-7003 • Fax (219)273·2455 
j 
-
page 22 The Observer • SPORTS Friday, March 29, 1996 
• SPORTS BRIEFS 
WEEKEND RACQUETBALL TOURNAMENT -This tourna­ment will be on Saturday, March 30. and Sunday. March 
31. There will be men's and women's divisions with t·shirts being awarded to all partici· pants. Bring your own rac­quet, but racquetballs will be provided. Also, refreshments will be served. You must register in advance in the RecSports office by Thursday. March 28 and there is a $6.00 fee. For more information, calll-6100. 
CHRISTMAS IN APRIL BEN­EFIT RUN -March 30 is the date for this 5K or 10K run, and 2 mile walk. The run be­gins at 11:00 a.m. with the start/finish being at the Rockne Memorial. There will be six divisions for each run with trophies being awarded to the top finisher in each divi­sion. 

All registrants will be awarded a t-shirt. The cost of the run is $5.00 in advance and $6.00 th{l day of the event. All proceeds from the event will he donated to Christmas in April. Family members of all staff and faculty will be allowed to participate. All family members over the age of 18 need tocomplete the standard registration and in· surance waiver and all minors need to have their parent or guardian sign the waiver for them· All registration/waiver forms can be obtained in the RecSports office and both will also be available at the event. 
DROP-IN VOLLEYBALL • Re<;Sports will be offering Drop-In Volleyball on Tuesdays April 2, 9, 16, 23, and 30, from 8:00-11:00 p.m. in the Joyce Center. Come by yourself or bring some friends. No established teams or ad­vanced sign-ups necessary. 


Bi\SI(E'fBi\LL Monday Aprill 7-9 P.M. LaF. 
Please Recycle The Observer 
Homeward Bound 2(H) 12:45, 2:55,5:15,7:25, 0:35 Bed of Roses (PG) 10:1o 
Beautiful Girls (R) 1:20. 9:45 
Sense and Sensibility (PG) 1:15, 4:15, 7:15 
City Hill (H) 1:411.4:40 
BhiCk Sheep (PG-13) 10:05 
Leaving Lis Vegas (R) 1:30, 4:20, 7:05, 0:50 
EucuUve OliCISion* (8) t:ll.tll.tll,i:ll, 7:11,7:45,11:81,11:31 Apollo 13 (PG) 12:55, 4:05, 7:oo 
Mr. Holland's 0 s(PG) 12:50,4:00, 7:oo. 1o:oo 

Women's Bookstore Sign-ups 
$8 Entry Fee 
Tuesday April2  Wednesday April 3  
7-9 P.M.  7~9 P.M. LaF.  
5-7 P.M.  
SMC D.H.  

DOD 
~
0 
~mes valid Now lhru Tuesday Only! 
THESE TIMES FOR WED. & THRUS. ONLY $3.75 ALL SEATS BEFORE 6 PM dO PASSES • SUPERSAVERS ACCEPTED 
0 

Always a <:rowd pleaser. 
.. 
Golfers journey to Owens Tourney 
By DEREK BETCHER 
Sporrs Wrirer 
Coach George Thomas and his team look to this weekend for their first serious competition since winning the Big East Championship last fall. 
After tentatively adding Kit Burton to the top-five, the Irish linksters packed off for the Johnny Owens Intercollegiate golf tournament in Lexington, Kentucky. 
Burton joins co-captains Joel Hepler and Brian Donohoe, (ranked one and two on the team, respectively). Brian Weeks in the three spot, and number-four Bill Moore, the Big East's reigning individual medalist. 
After a warm-up tournament in Florida over spring break, Thomas feels his team is ready to hit the links and begin piling up the points they need to qual­ify for the NCAA's golf tourna­ment. 
"Obviously, that's our main goal -to get to the NCAA," stressed Thomas. 
To reach that goal, the Irish will first have to earn enough points by beating competitive teams to finish in the top six in their district -thereby qualify­ing for a regional tournament. From each of these three re­gionals, the top-ten teams ad­vance to the NCAA's tourney. 
With a slim schedule limited by University requirements for its athletes, and without recent appearances in even a regional tourney, Thomas and his squad realize they face a challenge. 
"We just have to get a lot of points every time we go out," Donohoe said. 
"Unfortunately, the Big East doesn't get us an automatic bid into Regionals," Thomas point­ed out. 
Nonetheless, the team is op­timistic about its chances, be­ginning with their weekend in Lexington. 
"A couple of years ago, we were used to going out and get­ting pounded, but now we're beginning to gain confidence," commented Moore on his team's legitimacy. 
h J;  ~ -~  (;Jl£AT ..~uALL ,.. ft  Chinese ~ American Restau.rantand Cocktail Lounge Authcntlc S:cchu.tn,  
ManJenn & i lun<m Cuts me  
Bar and Restauraunt open 7 days a week  

Lunches starting at__ $4.25 
\'otl'd Bl'-.t

Dinners starting at __ $5.95 
Oril'nt.d Re~t.turant

Banquet rooms available for up yo 200 
in Michiana by 

130 Dixie Way N.,South Bend !Vlichicma Noll' 
(next to Randall's Inn) 
./V~.-2>~ 

WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
:4~B~ 
Thursday, April11, 1996 
Joyce ·center Monogram Room 
doors open 6:30 p.m. • dinner seNed 7:00 p.m. 
$11.00 per person Tickets available in the Women's Basketball office. Gate 1 -Joyce Center Tickets must be purchased by AprilS, 1996. 

hiday, March 29, 1996 The Observer • TODAY page 23 
FOUR FOOD GROUPS OF THE APOCALYPSE DAVE KELLETT YOUR HOROSCOPE JEANE DIXON 
• 

l---I..L...::I"-11---I.J--~---~----' V) L__JU..._..l...I....J.:........,;..::...L,_..J­


MISTER BOFFO 
uiLBERT 
WALLY, I'M HOPING '1'0U'LL AGREE. TO WRITE ABOUT '<OUR 
PP.O:l"ECT FOR THE 
NEWSLETTER ... 



HAI'I'Y IIIRTHDA Y! IN THE
~ou j(,..ow £vEI'ITvi'<\.L~ ~ou'cl 1-\IWE \o
Looi'-Ar ~ou 1 At~.E N'r ~cu !HE 
NEXT YEAR OF YOUR LIFE: A \j"(.I)I)J;Y-.l\IPIT Tllt..b,· .. 
new stmtegy works like magic. You will soon be hack on top! A fulfill­'S1.1C.IITE'S> 'Bt-r 1'17>>11\mE.O f\,­/ LAI'I.T \),li-\PI'f­
~~'D L.-jou'Sf\'\EI.Lf? IT':s 
ing rela\ionship takes on a special'' \-,-\ic.t<L"-S ~1• 
luster in June. A late-summer wed­
TcR~Ie,I.E! Ncw b,o {:,Er ~oup.­
ding is possible. The financial ou\­
1 .../ 
look brightens for those in limited
'SHf·CI.-E.I'oi'IE'D Up T1-m fl\,r1VI'E 
partnerships or family businesses. You gradually lose interest in cer­tain possessions. Next December, a work project will reach a critical stage. Stick close to home base. Sporting luck will be on your side early in '97. The fastest way to get something done is to do it your.;elf. 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: tennis star Jennifer Capriati, actor Eric Idle, football player Earl Campbell, beloved singer Pearl Bailey. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): All 
eyes are upon you. Good things flow your way with lillie effort on your pan. Rejoice in making a new beginning! There is no reason to passively accept a decision. 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Stop procrastinating' Even if the grass seems greener on lhe other side, make the most of present opportunities. Enjoy the applause given to your accomplishments. 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Inner hannony is easier to achieve now. Travel plans will develop as expected. Journey toward the sea if you can. New adventures beckon to the young-at-heart. 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): Skimming through life on the sur­face will never satisfy you. Get the financial facts and figures before making a final decision. New friend­ships help you deal with stress. 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Take 
JOE MARTIN 
SCOTT ADAMS 

stock of where your life is headed. Older people could prove lucky for you now, especially if they live sta­
r------------------------,Gr------------------------­
u ~ ~NO IN 11-\£ GRAND ; 
SO... ARE YOU 

~ IP-AOITION OF ENGINE£.~­
SAYING YOU ~ ING, I E~P£Ci '<OU'LL 
.. 

• OF INTEREST
DON'T OE5PI5E ~ GIVE THIS THE. LOWEST 
,. 

t-\E. NOW? WE. ARE. NOT
.. 

Notre Dame Communication and Theater pre· 
~ I'RlO~IT'(, THUS t-\A\'..lNG 
~ 

sents "On the Verge" this Friday and Saturday at 8
;;::­

p.m. in the Lab Theater at Washington Hall.
t-\£. O£.SPI5E '<OU. 
E 
, 

Admission is free. 
~ 
i 

t\t.~t! 

Northeast Neighborhood Spring Clean-Up takes place on Saturday, March 30 from 8 a.m.· 1 p.m. 
w 
.."' ~ 

Vans will leave from the main circle from 8-10 a.m. A barbecue lunch will be held afterwards for students
~ 
i 

and residents who help with the painting, yard work, 
_____, ~ L_...l..,__~---..-1.---''-----' 
34 Zebras, e.g. 41 Stationery amount
35 Population 
•MENU 
boom area 44 Suppress 36 Dress designer 45 Go as a group 
Notre Dame 
Mary 46 Wilde comment 
North South 
37 Ultimate so Fountain 
Tofu Fried Rice Shrimp Poppers 
consumer potable 
Cheese Enchilada Vegetables Marinara 
38 Sots, at times 52 In the capacity 
Spanish Rice & Beans Broccoli Spears
39 Road in the Ruhr of 
Saint Mary's 
Broccoli Cheddar Quiche 
Get answers to any three clues 
Brown Rice 
by touch-tone phone: 1·900-420· 
Seasoned Corn 
5656 (75¢ each minute). 
hie lives. Rely on your own fine 
in~tincts. 
VIR(;() (Aug. 23-Scpt. 22): Get­
ting your own way will be easy if 
you push the right bunons. Your 

energy level is high. Strike a healthy 
balance between work and play. 

Humor counts big with \hat special 'per.;on. 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): You 
are entering a highly productive 
period at work. Speaking a second 
language has business advantages. 
Give an au\hority figure time to 
respond to a proposal before push­
ing for an answer. 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): 
The emphasis now is on managing 
your money more efficiently. Do not 
try to sweep woll')'ing maner.; under 
\he rug. Pay off debts one at a time. 
Romantic passions dominate this 
evenmg. 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 
21 ): Fortune smiles when you "'sist 
taking on more responsibilities \han 
you can handle. A teen-ager is mak­
ing a declaration of independence. 
Continue to limit spending. 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 
19): Although you have a shth 
sense about money, linle things may 
sometimes get past you. Someone 
needs your sound advice. Self-disci­
pline will help you get work assign­
ments completed on time. 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): 
A long-tenn investment will soon 
produce belter returns. Romance 
could get the big chill tonight. 
Refrain from acting on impulse. 
Balance your checkbook before 
going shopping. 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Let 
your heart rule your head for once. 
Come out of your shell. Making 
reservations for a weekend retreat 
will put you in a happy, reflective 
mood. 
46 Article in Die Welt 47 Tease 
460neofa fivesome, for short 
49 Cologne's Church of St. 
51 Milk purchase 53 Chokers 54 "The Cannonball 
Run" actor 55 Computer 
programmers 56 Infection cause 57 Hardly dense 
DOWN 
1 Comparatively smooth 2 Don of fiction 3 Like most stationery 4 "The Mammoth Hunters" author 

and cleaning. Habitat for Humanity is seeking experienced (or enthusiastic non-experienced) volunteers for this weekend, both Saturday and Sunday in two shifts: 9 a.m.-1 p.m. and 1·5 p.m. For more information, call Johanna Ward at 4-4813. Multi-campus dance Saturday in South Dining Hall. East Ballroom from 10 p.m.-1 a.m. Everyone is encouraged to attend; the cost is $2. "A Walk in the Clouds" will be shown in Carroll Auditorium Friday at 7 and 9:30p.m. and Saturday at 9 p.m. Sponsored by Student Activities Board. Admission is free. RE:VISIONS #11 is now accepting stories for possi· ble publication. All entries must be typed, submitted in triplicate (3 copies), with name and address on removable front cover sheet. Please submit by 4 p.m. on Monday, April 1, to the English department in 356 O'Shaugnessy. Those with questions should eontact Professor O'Rourke, 631·7377, 465 Decio. The Off~Campus Palm Sunday Mass will be held at 4 p.m. on March 31 at the Turtle Creek Clubhouse. Anyone interested in helping out, please eall Steve Warner (631-5242) for more details. "The Usual Suspects" will be playing at 7:30 and 
9:30 p.m Friday and Saturday in the Snite Must~um. The cost of the movie is $2. 
5 Censor aGidget In "Gidget" 1 "Peanuts" 
character &Jug­9 Start of "The 
Yankee Doodle Boy" chorus tO Overcome 11 More sore 13 Easy 2-pointers 14 1939 movie lawman 

1& Dead duck 22 "The Fusco Brothers" dog, 
in the funnies 23Amounts 25 Christmas 
temps 27 Kind of analysis: 
Abbr. 29 Take it easy 30 Busybodies 32 Le Havre lading place 
33 Tarkington opus 
-· 

SPORTS 
page 24 
•LACROSSE 
Irish to defend streak at Hobart 
By TODD FITZPATRICK the reason is because the team Shea. Sports Writer communicates so well on and Hobart's leading scorers con­off the field," said Irish assis­sist of a talented quartet of se­
Some teams hate to play on tant coach Tim Shea. niors. Todd Muendel, Paul the road. Just ask the Orlando "Having students from Notre Lyle, Eric Curry, and Josh Magic. Dame, as compared to other Kenny lead the team in both 
Reasons for losing away from schools, really helps a lot. goals and assists. home will vary. Maybe players They absorb information really No one is more important to miss the comfort of their own quickly and they're easy to Notre Dame's defense this sea­beds. Maybe they can't handle teach." son than sophomore goalie the pressure of a hostile Shea has been particularly Alex Cade. crowd. impressed with the defensive The Irish will need Cade to 
Other teams seem to thrive play of Todd Bialous, Dave play well in the nets if they on it. They can focus more in­Cashen, Todd Rassas, and hope to slow down Hobart's tently without the distractions Andy Scollan. All of which offensive attack. of playing at home. The team have increased their playing "Alex is coming off a huge eats, sleeps, and travels as a time since last season. They season last year. Now he's in group. It's an us-against-the have adequately filled some of charge of the defense, and he's world mentality. the gaps created by graduating doing a great job," stated Shea. 
The Irish lacrosse team has letter winners. Because of the recent ankle certainly shown they have Freshman Laurence Galli has injury to attacker Will DeRiso, what it takes· to be road war­also showed great promise on the Irish will look to their top riors. defense. remaining scoring threats to 
Since losing its first contest He has stepped up on several pick up the slack. at home, No. 12 Notre Dame occasions to earn the praise of The big three who will hope has triumphed over four his coaching staff. to find the back of the net are straight opponents en route to The Irish defense will be es­Jimmy Keenan, Tony Reid, and a 4-1 record. pecially important this week­freshman phenom Chris 
The Irish hope to keep their end when Notre Dame faces Dusseau. road winning streak alive Hobart. Dusseau has led all Irish when play fifteenth-ranked "Offensively, Hobart is scorers with four goals in each Hobart this Saturday. probably one of the best teams of the past two games. 
"I think they're gelling really we'll face. They're in the same "Defensively, they [Hobart] well as a team. I think part of class as Loyola," commented are a little less talented than 
Eagles prove to be easy prey 
By TIM MCCONN as she pitched all eight innings Sports Writer in the second victory. Both players will pitch at 
Every athletic team at Notre Rutgers this weekend, accord­Dame, except football, has ing to Coach Miller. done it this year, so it's just Because the Irish play such a natural that the Irish Softball heavy load of four games in team just follows suit. two days, however, Kobata 
The Lady Irish (18-10, 0-0) and Bessolo will not be the will play their first ever Big only ones to get on the dia­East Conference softball game. mond. They travel to Rutgers this 'Tm expecting all four of our weekend for a doubleheader pitchers (Kobata, Bessolo, Joy on both Saturday and Sunday. Battersby, and Kelly Nichols) 


The Irish are definitely ex­to see time this weekend," cited to try their luck in the 
see BIG EAST I page 19
.. 

new conference. "We're ready to go," said 
=~· 
~ 
......; 

Notre Dame Coach Liz Miller. "This is the first time we've competed in the Big East, and we're anxious to get on the field and pl11v." 
Coach Miller and the Irish 
The Observer/Michelle Sweet 

have a lot to be excited about
First baseman George Restovich ignited the Irish offense this past weekend by driving in two runs while breaking out of his recent slump. right now. Going with their 
Big East debut, the team has By DYLAN BARMMER most recent victim of the surg­fielding before the game today," won six games in a row, and Assistant Sports Editor ing Irish (15-7), who rolled to a said head coach Paul Mainieri seven of their last eight. 
6-3 win behind good, solid, all following the game. "We hit a This streak includes their 
Apparently someone forgot to around play. lot of balls to our fielders and two-game sweep of the tell the folks at Northeastern The Irish fought off the cold worked on double plays. We Indiana Hoosiers last week­Illinois that South Bend oper­and the poor defense and base ended up turning three double end. In those contests, which ates on Eastern time, causing running which accompanied it plays, and we played an error­the Irish won by scores of 4-0 the bus bearing the school's in yesterday's game, and five less game. We've got a good and 4-3, junior All-American baseball team to arrive just fif­different pitchers scattered defensive team." pitcher Terri Kobata pitched teen minutes before the sched­seven hits in leading the Irish to Senior Craig Allen came back her fifth complete game uled 4:00 game. their third straight win, which into the starting rotation to shutout of the season, while 
They might as well have was also the ninth in their past earn his first win of the season, freshman 


never shown up. · ten games. The 8-12 Eagles became the "We worked real hard on our 

Lacrosse 
at Hoban, Saturday, March 30 
-
Softball 
at Rutgers, Saturday, March 30 
... Men's Tennis 
at Indiana, Sunday, March 31 
Angela Bessolo continued to see EAGLES I page19 impress in her rookie season 
Women's Tennis Men's golf travels to Lexington

a;
at Georgia, Friday, March 29 
see page 22 

Track ~ at Purdue Invitational, Saturday, Spring Football underway March 30 
see page 20

r/J
SMC Sports Men's and Women's Tennis 

Tennis ar Washington University, Friday, March 29 see page 18 
~ 






