
Wednesday, April 10, 1996• Vol. XXVII No. 120 THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVlNG NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Bosnia crash claims ND's Pieroni ND set to lead 

1\y BRAD PRENDERGAST plore the business opportunities in the News Editor Balkans during their trip. Pieroni was chairman and chief executive 
A brilliant dwmical engineer and busi­ollicer of The Parsons Corp., a top firm in rwssman who was known as much for his the chemical engineering and technology workplan~ intdligencn as for his compas­industries based in Pasadena, Calif. Prior sion, Lnonard Pinroni displayed his rare to becoming CEO, he had served as a vice blend of abilities as early as his student president in several different capaeities for days at Notre Damn. the firm beginning in 1978, at the relatively 
Pinroni. a I'JhO graduate of thn young age of 39. University, was one of a dozen top "lie was a smart businessman, but he Anwric:an businnss executives who, along still regarded himself as more of a technol­with U.S. Commerce Secrntary Hun Brown. ogist or an engineer than as a busi­dilld April 3 in a plane erash in Croatia. All nessman," Kohn said. "lie was one CEO :n people aboard were killed. who eould look at plans for a plant in Saudi 
"II•~ was a Notre Danw person," James Arabia, for example, and see flaws in it." Kuhn, professor enwritus of chemical Pieroni's expertise was also evident in nnginnnring, said of Pinroni. "lie really the classroom while at Notre Dame, where loved this plaen and never wanted anything he graduated witli high honors. "Of the to tarnish it." some-2,000 chemical engineering students 
Pinroni and thn other Amnrican execu­tivns aboard the plane had planned to ex-

Cold War executions hold new ramifications 
By MATT GAREAU Nt•w,Writcr 
Tlw trial and execution of .Julius and l·:tlwl Hosenbnrg ovnr forty ynars ago for their allng1HI involvnnwnt in a eonspiracy to provicll~ the Soviet Union with atomic snerets has snrious implications on American soeiPty today, 1u:eording to Holwrt Mnnropol. 
M1wropol. a son of tlw HosPn­lwrgs. oiTnn~d his views on the probll~rns with thn ease and tlwir presPnt-day ramifications ynstl~rday in a lecturn Judd at Notm Damn in thn Law School Courtroom. Thn leeture. nnti­Tho Observer/Katie Kroener tl•~d "Crinw of the Century: The 
Robert Meeropol, whose parents were executed for alleged involve­
Trial and Exm:ution of Julius 
ment in an atomic conspiracy with
and 1-:tlwl HosPnberg and Capi­
the Soviet Union, spoke out
tal Punishment." offnred 
against the death penalty yester­
Mnnropol's viHw that his par­
day in his lecture, "Crime of the 
nnts wern framed as scape­Century." goats by tlw governnwnt. 
In the era of McCarthyisrn Meeropol claimed the case is and tlw c:omrnunist scam, thn important because it defines Hos•~nlwrgs w1~m irnplicat1~d in the Cold War era in America. ordnr to account for the quick "Thn Cold War wasn't only dnv1dopnwnt of atornie about how the United States weapons by tlw Sovi•~t Union. related with the Soviet Union. It Tlw Hosnnbnrgs wnrn found also cltmlt with how Americans guilty and nxecu ted becausn dealt with other Americans," tlwy failnd to eooperate with said Met~ropol. top seen~t agencins in tho The trial occurred during the gov1~r n rn n n t. ar.r.onl in g to Mt~Propol. s~:e COLD WAR I page 4 
• Hihl PE..;I[~NTS' COUNCIL 
Leonard Pieroni 
CAREER HIGHLIGHTS 
~CEO since 1990 ofThe Parsons Corporation, Pasadena Calif., an industrial grant in construction and technology. 
~ Recipient of the 1993 University of Notre Dame College of Engineering Honor Award, recognizing graduates who have distinguished themselves in technology or business. 
~ Master's of Science, Chemical Engineering, Northwestern University, 1961. 
~ BachelotJs ofScience, Chemical Engineering. University of Notre Dame, 1960 


national Air Force society 
By JAMIE HEISLER Associate News Ediwr 
Aftnr a weekend of intense campaign­ing, the Notre Dame squadron of the Air Force HOTC Arnold Air Society was elect­ed national headquarters by 141 detach­ments of their peers. 
The AAS is a 4,000 member organiza­tion within thn Air Force HOTC program whose primary goal is service. "Our goal is to promote a better image of the Air Force within the community. Our objec­tives also include creating better officers 
see ROTC/ page 4 
Tho Observer/Katie Kroener 
The Ballet Folklorico de Chile (BAFOCHI) music and dance troupe will perform tonight at 8 p.m. at Stepan Center. Tickets cost $2 and can be purchased at the LaFortune Information Desk. 
Chilean ballet at Stepan tonight 
By MATTHEW LOUGHRAN over Chile and ends with a maintaining culture through News Writer presentation of popular and dance and music is, in our folk dances of Latin Ameriea. capacity as Catholic mis­
Latin American culture The group's current North sionaries, very important," comes to Notre Dame tonight American Tour includes stops said Sam Stanton, a member at 8 p.m. when the Ballet in Loyola University of of Maryknoll from Tarrytown, Folklorieo de Chile (BAFOCHI) Chicago, Notre Dame, LaSalle New York. performs at Stepan Center. University in Philadelphia, The group was brought to 
BAFOCHI is an independent Puerto Rico, Canada, and campus by the efforts of the artistic company made up of Mexico. Center for Social Concerns 28 artists that represent the The tour has been spon­and will be performing with culture of Chile, through sored by the Maryknoll special guest Sabor Latino. dance and music, in concerts Mission Association, a throughout the world. Catholic mission of 1,700 reli­Tickets cost $2, and can be 
The performance featun~s gious and laypeople all over purchased al. the LaFortune dances and music from all the world. "We feel that Information Desk. 

Francis examines black 
Council elects Senate members 
colleges' current roles
By DEBORA! I SCI I ULTZ cause I always hear of things Villalobos, and Dan Zwart. A!.~i\lant New~ Fdiror going on and I wonder where "We are glad to have so many By DEREK BETCHERthese things started from, or voluntenrs for the committne, 
News Writer
Matt Connor. eo-president of who deeided them. I would especially with such a range of St. l·:dward's llall . .Julin l.yzinski, really like to get a closer look at the entirn campus. But it is im­Originally spurred one-hun­
m-pn~sidnnt of l'asqw~rilla East how things run around cam­portant that everyone of you 
dred years ago by the land­
llall and Mary Slatt. co-prnsi­pus," said Lyzinski. show up for evnry meeting, be­mark Plessy v. Ferguson courtdnnt of Cavanaugh llall w•~re III'C also took nominations for cause we need you to vote on decision. historically black col­tdnrwd as tho rnprnsnntatives voluntners to be nwmbms of the budget rnquests," said II PC Co­leges will continue to play anfrom llall l'n~sidc~nts' Couneil for budget committee. The budget Chair Deborah I lellmuth. 
integral role in educating
StudPnt Snnatn at the III'C mnnt­eornmittee meets whenever In other IIPC news: African-American students, ac­ing last night. thnre is a request for money by •Cavanaugh Hall will be hav­cording to Norman C. Francis.
l·:adl ynar, III'C dncts three a dorm or a !?tudent group, and ing karaoke with an open mi­
Francis, the President of
nwmlwrs to sit in on Student the committnn then works with crophone at the Fieldhouse Mall Xavier University of LouisianaSPrmW rru~ntings in onh~r to in­the groups to si1e if they may on April11 from 4:30 to 7 p.m. 
addressed the past develop­
tTnas•~ campus n~prnstmtation. receive funds from IIPC. • Lewis llall is sponsoring a ment and future roles of histor­"I would rnally likn til be a Members of the IIPC budget cofTne house on April 16 from 9 ically black colleges in a leeture part of Student S1~rrat1~ to get thn eommitten for the 1996-97 year to 11 p.m. Anyone is welcome yesterday at the Center for So­charren to dig a litlln deept~r by are: Hobert Booker. Bill Briggs, . to attend and there will be re­cial Concerns. 
making a dilTI~rtmcn through Torn Brisknn, KellBy Burns, freshments and poetry readings. 
"This country was founded
making dt~dsions," said Connor. Clare Deckelman, Anne DuBay, • Farley Hall will also be hold­"I have always been eurious Kevin Fum<Li, Tim Fusco, Hyan ing a coffee house on April 18 see COLLEGES I page 6about Student Covnrnment be-Lutterbaeh, Jill Hinour. Ernie from 8 to 10 p.m. 




Wednesday, April 10, 1996
page 2 The Observer • INSIDE 



A tale 
of two 

teams 

Growing up it was safe to say that I hated Notre Dame basketball just as I hate Boston College football today. Don't get me wrong, my family always preached the greatness of the Notre Dame. It 

ranked second only to Thomas Schlidt 
heaven itself. Yet, 
when it came to bas-Associate Sports Editor ketball, we were Marquette Blue and Gold through and through. My family has had Marquette season tickets since before the glory years of AI McGuire and his 1977 National Championship team, and every year we would pack into the Mecca Arena to watch the Warriors (Golden Eagles) battle the Irish. Every year the result was the same. Whether from the clutch three point shooting of Joe Fredrick or the inside game of LaPhonso Ellis, the Irish always won. In fact, in a 20 game span from 1982 to 1994, when the series ended, the Irish lost only two games. Since 1994 Marquette and Notre Dame have gone in opposite directions. Marquette has been ranked within the top 25 the past three seasons and have made it into a post season tournament the past four years. The only place you'll see the Irish ranked this season is in the RPI poll at number 150 behind Saint Mary's (I'm hoping this isn't the Belles). Towson State and Oral Roberts. Why the opposite directions? There seems to be two easy answers. The first is coaching, but that's a column for another day. So that brings us to the second, recruiting. Marquette has never hauled in one of the top classes in the nation. Not once in the last ten years has one of their recruits been in the top 
50. The common thread among their recruits is that they are all considered within the top 100-150 players in the nation. Stars aren't necessary to succeed, solid players are. 
Notre Dame hasn't been successful in its recruiting ventures since LaPhonso Ellis signed on the dotted line in 1988. Until last year they have been unable to sign more than ·one of these top 150 players a year. This year's freshman class is the only class under coach John MacLeod in which all of its recruits were considered within the top 150 players in the country. 
Today marks the beginning of the final sign­ing period for the class of 2000. Two more recruits, small forward David Lalazarian and shooting guard Mike Friel, join power forward Todd Palmer in this year's recruiting class. I'm not going to lie, this is not going to be one of the top 50 classes in the nation, but it is solid. 
None are McDonald's All-Americans, but Palmer and Lalazarian are considered within the top 150 high school players in the nation while Friel11oats among the top 200. They don't have great odds of being drafted to the NBA in the first round, but when paired with this year's freshmen they could form a founda­tion for future improvement. 
I'm not naive enol!lgh to believe the Irish will ever win the Big East within the next 5 years, but I do see a glimmer of progress. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 


News Production Bill Connolly John Hutchinson Jillian Pagliocca Jackie Moser Sports Mike Day Lab Tech Meghan Kunkel Michael Hungeling Graphics Brian Blank 

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday excepf during exam and vacarion periods. The Observer is a member of the Associared Press. All reproduction righrs are reserved. 
• WmtLo AT A GuNc£ 
Two studies say mom's obesity raises risk of birth defects 
two studies offered no explanation for
CHICAGO 

the apparent link between obesity and
Obese mothers are at least twice as 

Obesity and 

birth defects. But the Alabama doctors
likely as thinner women to have babies 
speculated that fat women might have
with debilitating birth defects, two stud­

birth defects 

some abnormality in their metabolism
ies found. And a vitamin known to help 
Pregnant women who are overweight 

or that unrecognized nutritional factors 
prevent such abnormalities appears to 
prior to their pregnancy are at greater 

might play a role.
offer overweight women no protection, 
risk of having a child with birth defects. 

In one study, Boston University
the researchers said. 
researchers found that women who
Both studies, published in 
0 Women who weighed between 

Wednesday's Journal of the American 
weighed 176 to 195 pounds before
176 to 195 pounds before pregnancy 

pregnancy were about twice as likely to
Medical Association, involved so-called 
were twice as likely to have a child 
with birth defects as a woman 

have a child with a neural tube defect
neural tube defects and women who 
weighing between 11 0 

as women who weighed 110 to 130.
were obese at conception, not those who 
and 130 pounds. 

The risk was four-fold for women
gained a lot of weight during pregnancy. 
weighing 242 pounds or more.
The neural tube defects linked to obe­
0 Women weighing 

242 pounds or The study involved 604 fetuses or
sity include spina bifida -an incom­
greater were four infants with a neural tube defect born
plete closure of the spinal column that 
times as likely to women participating in birth defects
often results in paralysis ~ to anen­
to be at risk. research in Boston, Philadelphia and
cephaly, in which most of the brain is 
Ontario, Canada. 
missing. The defects annually afflict 
Obesity definition: 

The researchers did not have infor­
some 2,500 U.S. babies and an unknown 
Weight in 

Height mation on how tall all the participants
number of miscarried fetuses. 
pounds

An estimated·! 0 percent of women of 
were, but believe the increased risk is
5'0" ___149 

associated only with obesity, said lead
childbearing age are obese. 
5'2" 159 

author Martha Werler, an epidemiolo­
"Considering the recent increase in 
5'4"~-----169 gist. Large women whose weight is nev­
obesity in the U.S. population," Drs. 
Robert L. Goldenberg and Tsunenobu 
5'6" 180 ertheless appropriate for their height 
Tamura of the University of Alabama 
are not believed to run a higher risk. 
5'8"--·--191 

wrote in in an accompanying editorial, 
Werler and colleagues also found that
5'10" 202

the findings "may have important impli­
at least 400 micrograms of folic acid a
6'0"---214

cations for the prevention of neural tube 
day reduced the risk of neural tube 
defects." 
defects by 40 percent in women weigh-
Source: Boston University

The researchers who conducted the AP ing less than 154 pounds. 
Clinton: Nothing wrong in Bosnian deal 
WASHINGTON 

President Clinton asserted today the United States did nothing improper in not trying to stop arms shipments from Iran to Bosnia's battered army. Clinton said he is not concerned about a con­gressional investigation into whether his inaction led the United States into violating an international arms embar­go. On Monday, an administration offi­


cial said that at a time Bosnia was staggering in its war with Serb rebels, Clinton knew of and did not try to stop arms shipments from Iran through Croatia to Bosnia's army. Senate Major'ity Leader Bob Dole, the presumptive GOP presidential candidate this fall, has called on Congress to investigate whether there was any wrongdo­ing on Clinton's part. "There was absolutely nothing im­proper done," Clinton said in response to reporters' questions as he opened Oval Office talks with Greek Prime Minister Constantine Simitis. 

Charge reduced in tourist slaying 
DAYTONA BEACH 

A mentally retarded teen who confessed to shooting a Canadian tourist didn't fire the gun after all, authorities said as they charged another youth in the killing. Au­thorities still believe the retarded youth, Donald William Shoup, was present at the time of the shooting of Mark Fyke, an 18-year-old on spring break from Ontario. But they said Monday that he lied when he confessed. His lawyer says he is too retarded to understand what's hap­pening to him, and was miles away at the time of the killing. John O'Neal Rainey of Umatilla was charged with first-degree murder Monday in the March 15 killing, which began as a botched robbery. Rainey had already been in a juvenile detention center for two weeks on an unrelated charge of violating probation. Meanwhile, the charge against Shoup, 18, was reduced from first-degree murder, which could bring a death penalty, to second-de­gree murder, which has a maximum of life in prison. 


First Pulitzer awarded posthumously 
NEW YORK 

Jonathan Larson, who died hours after the final dress rehearsal of "Rent," won the 1996 Pulitzer Prize for drama Tuesday for his Broadway-bound rock musical that celebrates the modern-day bohemians of New York's grungy East Village. "Jonathan would have been so proud," the playwright's father, an overcome Allan Lar­son, said from Albuquerque, N.M., after learning of the posthumous award. "I hope 'Rent' will become a living tes­timonial to him." The 35-year-old Larson -believed to be the first person to win the drama award posthumously ­was found dead in his apartment on Jan. 25 of an aortic aneurysm. The Pulitzer for fiction was awarded to Richard Ford for "Independence Day," a sequel to his acclaimed 1986 novel, "The Sportswriter." It follows the life of Frank Bascombe, a writer turned real estate agent, in the 1980s. Ford, who has written four other novels and a collection of stories, was vacationing in France, according to his pub­lishing house, Alfred A. Knopf. George Walker won the Pulitzer Prize for music, for his composition "Lilacs." 

Bishops criticize book introduction 
NEW YORK 

In a rare ecclesiastical book review, the U.S. Catholic Church on Tuesday challenged the latest edition of a popular introduction to Catholicism by a prominent moral theologian as an invitation to dissent. The Secretariat for Doctrine and Pastoral Practices said the latest edition of "Catholicism" by the Rev. Richard McBrien of the University of Notre Dame is inaccurate or misleading in describing church positions on the virgin birth, the ordination of women and other issues. Church officials claimed the book maintains it is possible for Catholics to believe Jesus Christ could have sinned, indi­cates that the virgin birth of Jesus probably never hap­pened, and holds that homosexuality, contraception and women's ordination are open questions, with the official church teaching merely being one option. "For some readers it will give encouragement to dissent," the secre-. tariat said. 


Wednesday, ApriiiO AccuWeather® forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures The AccuWeather®forecast for noon, 
OHIO 
lindianapoli3 59° I ILL 
• 


~ .......................... 
COLD WARM STATIONARY 
0 1996 AccuWeather, Inc. 

Pressure .JA:i_ ~ r"\ 
H L EB CSJ !Til 0 !23 ~ ¥ L....!~ 
HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY VIB ASSOCISied Pmss 
Atlanta 78 41 Dallas 84 65 New Orleans 78 140 Baltimore 65 30 Denver 72 47 New York 60 
37


~,9,~4.Q.Q ~ ~ 6 
Boston 48 33 Los Angeles 72 54 Philadelphia 64 32 
Showers T·storms Rain Fl~r;Jes snoW Ice Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy 
Chicago 70 44 Miami 75 56 Phoenix 85 
61 

VIa Associated Press GraphicsNet C 1996 AccuWeather, Inc. 
Columbus 70 35 Minneapolis 56 47 St. Louis 79 
55 



--------------------~~~~v-------------------~--------------------------~-------~----­
Wednesday, A_rril 1 0, 1996 
The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Panel probes educational diversity 


Two races highlight SMC hall elections tomorrow
By MAUREEN HURLEY 
Saint Mary's News Editor 
Addressing cultural diversity in the dassroom is key in edu­eation, according to a panel diseussing "Growing up Arneri­ean" at Saint Mary's last night. 
Every education major at Saint Mary's and Notre Dame is required to take the course "Teaching in a Multicultural Society," which foeuses on di­versity in the classroom. Issues of race, gender, ethnicity, class and religion are among the many topies address1~d. 
Thmn parwlists, mpresenting a range of ethnic backgrounds, addrnssed these future teach­nrs, calling for a gmater sense of multieultural edueation and awareness in the classroom. 
"Tiw great thing about America is that all of us have rnadn a contribution to make this country what it is," said Warmn Outlaw, thn director of the Educational Talent Search at Notre Dame. 
Outlaw stressed the impor­tance nxpecting the hest from all students in the classroom. 
"It is important for teachers not to place value on children based on where they come from," said Outlaw. "You must have, high expectations for all your students." 
Outlaw lives out that philoso­phy in his role as the director for the Educational Talent Search. The program provides workshops on college prepara­tion for low-income middle and high school students that will be first-generation college stu­dents. 
"After corning from the ghet­to, if someone told me I'd be working for Notre Dame, and responsible for the higher edu­cation of over 800 students per year, I probably would have told them they were lying," Outlaw said. 
"When I was in high school, a guidance counselor told me that I wasn't college material. For some children, that could have been a deterrent, but be­cause my parents nurtured me, it made me angry instead of discouraging me," he con­tinued. "We need to encour­age children, rather than squelch their aspirations." 
Harvey Weingarten, a dentist in South Bend, spoke about his 
experience  as  a  first-gen­ 
eration  Eastern  European  
American.  

"My first experience of anti­semitism was when I was seven years old, when my family was blackballed from a neighbor­hood pool," Weingarten said. "As a seven-year-old, that was very difficult for me to un­derstand." 
Growing up as an American Jew, I don't feel I have been persecuted to the extreme that I have been forbidden to excel or attain my goals." 
Outlaw agreed. "I was aware that there was racism, but I al­ways viewed it as an obstacle, not an excuse for failure," said Outlaw. 
The panel maintained that stereotypes are not inherent, and that actions perpetuate discrimination. 
"I truly believe that all chil­dren are color blind," said Jesse Hsieh, a doctor in Granger. "Children learn prej­udice and division." 
That prejudice and division is caused by ignorance stemming from "a lack of knowledge of cultural history," Hsieh said. 
"Learning about my own cul­ture made me strong." 
"If we lived in an ideal world, there would be only one race: the human race," Outlaw said. 
By LAURA SMITH 
Assistant Saint Mary's Editor 

Communication, interhall sports, Notre DamP/Saint Mary's relations, and dances are com­mon themes in this year's llall Council Elections. Saint Mary's students will vote tomorrow in the dining hall for their 1996-97 Hall Council Representatives. 
Two tickets are competing to become the new Hall Council Representatives for Regina Hall. Jenny Wejman, Gwynn Murray­Nolan, Maureen Gill, and Jennifer Session, running under the slogan "Trust jn us to work hard for you," plan to increase communication in Hegina by hanging a calendar by the front desk. 
They also want to ~mprove Notre Dame/Saint Mary's rela­tions by increasing brother/sis­ter dorm activities. "We're enthusiastic," said Wejman. "We want to make Hegina the best place it can be and wel­come new freshman into the dorm." 
The other ticket running for Hegina Hall Council includes Barbara Nolan, Adrienne Sharp, 
Karen Ciaciura, and Ellen Coleman. Their slogan is "We're bakin' up a storm to make Regina more than just a dorm." 
According to Sharp, the tick­et's main platform goals are improving the kitchen, uniting Regina North and South, and planning a successful all-hall retreat. "We want Regina to be a place to call home away from home," said Sharp. "Increasing dorm identity is important to us," added Nolan. "We want to have a Regina Hall mascot and motto." 
LeMans Hall also has compet­ing tickets for Hall Council Rep­resentatives. Kathy Pilcavage, Jen Cherubini, Karey Weide, and Sharron Bonitatibus want to continue the work started by the current LeMans Hall Couneil headed by Simone Barber. According to Pilcavage, the tick­et plans to continue Hall Spirit Week and charity activities. 
Running under the slogan, "Let your future be in our hands," they want to establish a LeMans Home Page, start in­terhall sports tournaments, and purchase a big screen television for the LeMans lobby. "We want to encourage everyone to come out and vote on Thurs­
day," said Pilcavage. 
Patty Corbitt, Hache! Torres, 

Kim Kurgan, and Julie _Kochman are "Working to­gether to unify LeMans." They admire all the work of the cur­rent LeMans llall Council, but they wish to start different ac­tivities as well. "We aren't just making promises," said Torres. "We will follow them up with 
immediate action." 
This ticket's first goal is to in­

crease involvement in dorm 
activities, by planning-dances 
and offering less expensive tick­
ets. "We are confident in our 
leadership ability," said Torres. 
"We have a lot of experience 
and definite goals." 
The ticket of Jody Jennings, 

Meghan Driscoll, Megan Gal­
lagher, and Julie Gangloff are 
running unopposed for An­
nunciata Hall Council. "Be­
cause it is only the second year 
for Annunciata," said Jennings, 
"our main goal is to continue 
the traditions established by last 
year's Hall Council and start 
new ones." 
Jennings hopes to establish 

an e-mail terminal in Annunci­
COLD SORES? 
Apply LYCALL OINTMENT when 
-Szdman Frictl Rice

\''~-~J<. Swoot & Som cl,;cken 1 you feel that first tingle, and the at,,. . u cold sore may not break out at If Ch' C • • all. Or if it has, LYCALL OINT­
.,.~ ••~~..-· 1nese '! UISI 
MENT may help get rid of it in a day or two. 
Ask your Druggist, 
or send $5.95 for 8 Gm. to: CALEB lABORATORIES, INC 529 S. Seventh St. Minneapolis, MN 55415 
Satisfaction guaranteed 


T H E COMPACT D I S C Second Printing Now Available! 

ata Hall and start a Big Sis­ter/Little Sister program be­tween Annunciata seniors and Holy Cross freshman. 
Though Erin Battison, Bridget Sullivan, Melissa Lind, and Megan McLaughlin are running unopposed for Holy Cross Hall Council, they are excited and heavily involved in campaign­ing, according to Battison. "Our number one goal is to increase dorm unity," said Battison. "We will plan many hall dinners, study breaks, and outdoor activ­ities to accomplish this goal. We want to be the voice behind Holy Cross Hall." 
Lori Gundler, Charise Des­marteau, Laurie Pater, and Mary Swope are running unop­posed for McCandless Hall Council. They were unavailable for comment. 
Voting will take place in the dining hall tomorrow from 7:15 to 10 a.m., 11 a.m. to 1:30 p.m., and 4:30 to 7 p.m. Residence Hall Association Vice-President Elect and Hall Council Commissioner, Christine Riesenberger said, ''I'd really like to see everyone come out and vote tomorrow." If neces­sary, runoff elections will take place on Monday. 



Come & Rally ND/SMC as New York record scouts listen to 


Reminder: 
Class of 1997 Council 


Thursday, Aprilll, 1996 
Acoustic Cafe: 9:00-10:30 p.m. Corby's Pub: 11:00 p.m. 
applications able in the Government 
are avail Student Office. 

pplications are due 
his Friday. Positions re available for all 


committees. 
ny questions call1-5117. 
--~----~------------.-----~--~--------------­
page 4 The Observer • NEWS Wednesday, April 10, 1996 
based on oral testimony of Penn State, the election was other people who faced the intense, according to Bales.
Cold War Pieroni ROTC 
same penalty," he stated. "They [the other staff] gave a 
r 
start of the Cold War, known as the McCarthy period because of the communist manhunt start­ed by Wisconsin Sen. Joseph McCarthy. "During the McCarthy period, people were afraid of three things -the So­viet Union, communism, and atomic weapons," said Meeropol. 
He believes the assumption that America's nuclear secrets were stolen by spies was trig­gered by news that the Soviets had developed and tested atomic weapons in 1949. 
As 1950 rolled around, "the pressure on the FBI to catch the people who gave away these secrets mounted," he stated. 
Meeropol discussed problems with the evidence of the prose­
.. cution that should have set his parents free. "They were not charged with espionage, they were not charged with treason, they were charged with con­spiracy to commit espionage," he said. The charge of conspiracy meant that there would be little physical evidence to prosecute the Hosenbergs. Since the case relied mostly on oral evidence, it came down to the word of the Rosenbergs against the word of the other conspirators. "The chilling fact is that our govern­ment executed two people 
continued from page 1 
Much of the evidence, includ­ing sketches that were said to be given to the Soviets detailing bomb plans, were later found flawed. Meeropol believes that the sketches were examined in 1965 by atomic scientists and deemed worthless in construct­ing a bomb. 
Also, the sketches used in the trial were not even the purport­ed original drawings. Another conspirator drew the plans from his memory in his jail cell the day of his testimony. 
These facts lead Meeropol to believe his parents were wrongly convicted and put to death because they would not succumb to the power of the government. He believes the conviction served as an excuse to build up a large military in­frastructure to ward off the communist threat. 
"Powerful forces still don't want us to put the Cold War be­hind us," he said. Meeropol fa­vors cutting the budgets of the FBI, CIA, and other such agen­cies in order to keep something like the execution of his parents from ever happening again. "Lets get rid of these agencies and free up funds" to solve the social ills that harm America today, he said. 
"Let's stop their power and stop their funding. Let's work to abolish the death penalty to keep something like this from ever happening again." 
continued from page 1 
that I've taught during my time at Notre Dame, Leonard Pieroni was in the top five or six," Kohn said. 
After graduating from the University, Pieroni earned his master's degree in chemical engineering from Northwestern University in 1961, and then embarked on a successful pro­fessional career, where he gained intensive field experi­ence before eventually assum­ing more administrative duties. 
For his professional accom­plishments, Pieroni was award­ed Notre Dame's College of Engineering Honor Award in 1993, recognizing distinguished achievements in technology or business. 
"He was a brilliant engineer -very hard to beat," Kohn said. "But he willingly helped other people, too. He made ev­eryone around him become better engineers. He was ex­tremely well-liked by his class­mates." 
Even with success, Pieroni never flaunted his achieve­ments. "He never put on airs. He was very kind, very compas­sionate," Kohn said. "He made a strong impression on every­one who met him, without even trying." 
Pieroni is survived by his wife Marilyn, a son Len, and a daughter Vicki. 




Laughlin loses runoff in Texas 
By MICHAEL HOLMES 
Associa[ed Press 
AUSTIN, Texas 
Hep. Greg Laughlin, one of the first Democratic congress­men to switch parties after the 1994 GOP landslide, lost a GOP runoff Tuesday to former Libertarian presidential candi­date Ron Paul. 
The four-term incumbent be­came the first congressman this year to go down to defeat. The three previous House members forced into runoffs this decade also have lost. 
With 63 percent of precincts reporting, Paul had 8,499 votes, or 55 percent, and Laughlin had 6,885 votes, or 45 percent. 
In a Senate runoff, Rep. John Bryant of Dallas was locked in a neck-in-neck race with high school teacher Victor Morales for the Democratic nomination to challenge Sen. Phil Gramm. 
Bryant had 148,079 votes, or 50 percent, and Morales had 147,950 votes, or 40 percent, with 57 percent of precincts reporting. 
''I'm just hopeful. We've done all we can do," Bryant said as he arrived at a Dallas hotel. 
In the 14th District runoff, Laughlin was attacked as a political opportunist for switch­ing parties last summer -a move that resulted in party leaders rewarding him with a seat on the House Ways and Means Committee. 
The 54-year-old lawyer was forced into a runoff after cap­turing just 42 percent in the March 12 primary -less than the majority. Paul, a 60-year­old doctor, won 32 percent of the vote. Laughlin's other chal­lengers, Jim Deats and Ted Bozarth, threw their support behind Paul in the runoff. 
Laughlin and Paul battled over their conservative cre­dentials, with Laughlin lining up 

Free Pregnancy Test Referrals to Support Agencies Confidential Counseling 
SOUTH BEND -EAST DOWNTOWN SOUTH BEND 
Ironwood Circle 417 N. St. Louis Blvd. 2004 Ironwood Circle, Suite I Call 234~0363 273-8986 (24 hours) 
BOTH LOCATIONS CONVENIENT TO CAMPUS 
endorsements from such GOP heavyweights as House Speaker Newt Gingrich and former President Bush. 
Paul, a former Republican congressman who last ran for office as the 1988 presidential candidate of the Libertarian Party, was endorsed by con­servative activist Phyllis Schlafly and economist Milton Friedman. 
continued from page 1 
and more leadership," said Jen Rubner, the director of Public Affairs for the newly elected national staff. 
A staff of eight Air Force cadets attended NATCON, the national conclave of AAS, this past weekend in Detroit at which they were given the op­portunity to present their pro­posed platform to the other cadets. 
"It was a nationwide cam­paign in which we had to get a platform to everyone. We had to do a lot of research in order to find what needed to be im­proved or worked on," said Melissa Bales, the staff com­mander. 
The staff began work on their application last November when they decided to run. Funding was the first step in the process, and the group chose to find corporate and University sponsors. 
The package which they then compiled included a bid packet, slide show and a video presentation of their platform and goals. 
While the group was only competing against a staff from really good presentation, and we won by only five votes out of 152," she said. 
In serving as the national staff, the Notre Dame cadets are responsible for the administrative end of the orga­nization. "We oversee the running of the organization, and serve as more of a figure­head. We will represent the society at various functions," said Bales. 
Officers on the newly elected national stafT include: 
• 
Commander -Melissa Bales 

• 
Vice Commander -Mike Chapple 

• 
Director of Operations ­Melanie Bean 

• 
Director of Financial Man­agement -Rob Vitt 

• 
Director of Information Management -Kara Winn 

• 
Director of Training -Chip Warden 

• 
Director of Public Affairs ­Jen Rubner 

• 
DireCtor of Support -Kate Gries 


The positions went into effect immediately, thus reliev­ing the previous national staff from the University of Texas at San Antonio of their duties. 

~~·-·······;;···············································-~~ 
P
?'~ The University of Notre Dame Department of Music ~~~ 
&P'k presents ~((t, ' 
;"'-I'_ L _ I__ • "' \ 
jUcnota/ I 
i! AlexarderBlachly, CalvinBCJ.oVer, ArrlrewMShare, Dariel St~ ., with Craig Cramer, organ
I I 
! 12th-Century Chant by Nicolas of Clairvaux 
l 

~ Organ works by Bernardo Pasquini : 
~ Wednesday, April 10, 1996 I ~ 8:00p.m. ~ 



~~~:!f~~~f~~~~J 
e concentration in Philosophy, Politics. and Economics (PPE) is designe faculty and undergraduates with special interests in the intersecting political philosophy, political theory. and economic analysis. Many of our udents go on to further work in law, public policy. and the foundations of 
PE has three main attractions: 
• 
PPE integrates different approaches to ·foundational issues in political justice in a way not usually possible merely with a second major (and also requires many fewer courses than a second major): 

• 
PPE students interact closely with faculty members. in courses as well as less formally in advising and conversation (the student/faculty ratio in PPE seminars and colloquia is about 10:1 ): 

• 
PPE students develop an intellectual community among themselves. especially through the justice Seminar. PPE's intensive gateway seminar. 


Every year about twenty highly motivated and talented students are admitted PPE; check it out to see if it is for you. You can call one of PPE's student 
nts for the inside scoop: Karla Arenas 4-3881 Sheila Moloney· 273-5178 Hans Detlefsen 4-0675 Michael Williams 4-4681 
can also contact Professor David O'Connor, the director of PPE, at 1-6226. o·connor.2 @nd.edu. 


JIONS and further information are available outside Professor ce. 307 Decio. and at the Philosophy Department, 336 O'Shag. application deadline is April 11. 1996. 
·-·····-·~· ..... • ..................................................._ ...... _ ........ c:•»• ........ -... "" .. _""'_ ............ -..... . 
Wednesday, April 10, 1996 The Observer • NEWS page 5 

University promotes two N.Y. papers shine in Pulitzers 

in development division 
Webb, Farrell to lead growth at home, in L.A. 
Special to The Observer 
Kathleen Webb and Sean Farrell have been promoted to new positions in the Depart­ment of Development at the 
University of Notre Dame, according to D a n i e I Hcagan, di­reetor of development. 
w (l b b. director of 

the Ann u a I Farrell 
Fund since I994. has taken on additional responsibilities as executive 
dirtlctor of the Sorin Society. 
Flagship of the Annual Fund, tlw Sorin Society is comprised of bnnllfaetors who contribute a minimum of $1,000 annually in unrestricted gifts. as well as Founders Circln membflrs, who donatn $3,000 or more annu­ally. 
Webb is a 1991 Notre Dame graduate who began working in the University's develop­ment office as a student assis­tant. 
She was appointed assistant director of the Annual Fund in 1992 and oversees all aspects of the University's phone cen­ter and its direct mail and matching gifts programs. 
Farrell has been promoted 


from assis­tant director to director of t h e University's Los Angeles regional development office. 
Webb He succeeds 
D a v i d 

Morrissey, who recently was appointed to the newly created position of director of interna­tional and public policy advancement at Notre Dame. 
A 1977 graduate of the Uni­versity, Farrnll worked as an IBM representative with Havens & Associates of River­side, California. 

Are you looking for an on-campus job for next school year? Would you like to work part-time in your residence hall? 
The Office ofInformation Technologies is now accepting applications for Resident Computer Consultants. 
RCCs will assist students who are having difficulty con­necting their computers to the campus network. Interested? Fill out an electronic application on the Web. http:/ /www.nd.edu/ .... ccwww/app.html 
Ifyou have any questions contact Brian Bwchett or Hani El-Kukhun at Burchett.l@nd.edu or El-Kukhun.l@nd.edu 
By RICK HAMPSON 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK 

The News & Observer of Raleigh, N.C., won the 1996 Pulitzer Prize for public ser­vice journalism Tuesday for stories on the environmental and health risks of waste dis­posal in hog farming. 
The New York Times won three Pulitzers and Newsday won two. 
The Associated Press won for spot news photography for pic­tures taken by a freelancer of an infant being cradled by a firelighter after the Oklahoma City bombing. 
The prize for spot news re­porting went to Hobert D. Mc­Fadden of The New York Times for writing and report­ing on a variety of stories on deadline. 
The staff of The Orange County (Calif.) Hegister won for investigative reporting for stories that uncovered fraud in a fertility clinic. 
The award for explanatory journalism was won by Laurie Garrett of Newsday for her re­porting from Zaire on the Ebola virus outbreak. 
Another Newsday reporter, Bob Keeler, won the beat re­porting prize for his detailed portrait of a progressive local Homan Catholic parish. 
The national reporting prize went to Alix M. Freedman of The Wall Street Journal for her coverage of the tobacco industry, including a report that showed how ammonia additives heightened nicotine potency. 
David Hohde of The Christian Science Monitor won the inter­national reporting award for his reports on the massacre of thousands of Bosnian Muslims in Srebrenica. 
In a statement released by the Monitor, Rohde, who was in Bosnia when the awards 
Winners of the 1996 Pulitzer Prizes 
f;0 Journalism 
. ---·-···-·····~-----·-···~-~ 

Public se111ice: 
The News & Observer, Raleigh, N.C. 
Spot news reporting: 
Robert D. McFadden, The New York Times 
Investigative reporting: 
The Orange County (Calif.) Register staff 
Explanatory journalism: 
Laurie Garrett, Newsday 
Beat reporting: 
Bob Keeler, Newsday 
National reporting: 
Alix M. Freedman, The Wall Street Joumal 
lnternatim10l reporting: 
David Rohde, The Christian Science Monitor 
Feature writing: 
Rick Bragg, The New York Times 
Commentary: 
E.R. Shipp, New York Daily News 
Criticism: 
Roher! Campbell, The Boston Globe 
Editorial writing: 
Robert B. Semple Jr., The New York Times 
Editorial cartooning: 
Jim Morin, The Miami Herald 
Special award: Herb Cuen, San Francisco Chronicle 

Music: 
"Lilacs," by George Walker 
were announced, said he was "happy to get the truth out about the Srebrenica mas­sacre." Clayton Jones, the Monitor's international news editor, said: "We hope this prize reinforces eoncern about this massacre but also shows just what a good reporter can 
do  to  bring light  on  what  
unfortunately  is  a  tragic  
moment in history."  

The feature writing prize went to Rick Bragg of The New York Times for his stories about contemporary America, 
~ Photography 
. . 

Spot news photography: 
Photo of a 1-ycar-old Oklahoma City bombing victim in the arms of a firefighter; Charles Porter IV, free-lance, distributed by The Associated Press 
Feature photography: 
Photo of a Kenyan female circumcision 
rite; Stephanie Welsh, free-lance. 
published by Newhouse News Service 
{/!"& Literature 

-=--_, 
Fiction: 
"Independence Day," by Richard Ford 
Hi.flory: 
"William Cooper's Town: Power and Penma~ion on the Frontier of the Early American Republic," by Alan Taylor 
Biography: "God: A Biography," by Jack 
Miles 
Poetry: 
"The Dream of the Unified Field," by Jorie Graham 
General non-jictio11: 
"The Haunted Land: Facing Europe's Ghosts After Communism," hy Tina Rosenberg 


r:.::\~ Drama 
~~·· .... ···.<·~···.;:: -~-~~ 
Drama: 
"Rent," by Jonathan Larson AP/Wm. J. Castello 
and E.H. Shipp of the New York Daily News won the commentary award for her columns on race, welfare and other social issues. 
The criticism prize was awarded to Hobert Campbell of The Boston Globe for his writ­ing on architecture, and the editorial writing prize went to Hobert B. Semple Jr. of The New York Times for his editorials on environmental issues. Jim Morin of The Miami Herald won the editorial car­tooning Pulitzer. 


Q E C .... H I L · E Chilean Folklore Ballet 
a benefit performance for 

MARYKNOLL MISSION ASSOCIATION OF THE FAITHFUL 
In Collaboration with the Center for Social Concerns and Co-sponsors: Alumni Assoc.• Kellogg and Kroc Institutes • Campus Ministry • Freshman Yr. • PLS • Depts. of History, 
Romance Languages • Anthropology • SMC·Student Govemment & Multicultural Affairs • & others 
WEDNESDAY, APRIL 10 7:30PM -STEPAN CENTER -u of ND TICKETS -Available at LaFortune Student Center or at the Door $5.00 Adults, $2.00 Sludents-CHILDREN UNDER TWELVE-FREE! For more information call 631-7949 
*Special Appearance by SABOR LATINO* 
page 6 The Observer • NEWS Wednesday, April I 0, 1996 
in 1952, so I've lived under the poor of their rights to vote Plessy's system," Francis ex­in Louisiana. 





Colleges Audiotape of California 
plained. "With these recent develop­
continued from page 1 
on a principle that is both sim­ple and profound: for democra­cy to work, education has to be sound," Francis began, before quickly highlighting the history of black education in America. 
In pre-Civil War America, 90 percent of blacks lived in the South, and it was against the law to teach a slave to read or write, Francis explained. Blacks and whites collaborated to form the post-war education system and there was a dra­matic jump in minority literacy. The mission of the black col­leges that were then estab­lished was limited by econom­ics and social constrictions, but they flourished in a previously unimagined way, he continued. 
"Their progress has been far beyond their size and their re­sources," Francis said. 
While these educational ad­vancements were aided by the vast number of black civil ser­vants employed during the re­construction, by 1890 virtually every black public official had been systematically pushed out of office, Francis explained. This environment produced Plessy v. Ferguson: 
After Homer Plessy bought a railway ticket and refused to be moved from the compartment he was seated in, the Supreme Court eventually ruled that sep­arate but equal facilities for blacks were a reasonable state action. 
"I want you to appreciate these things. This hasn't been history for me, it's been a living experience. I was the first black ~actuate of Loyola Law School 
"When I went to vote for the first time, they asked me, 'How many bubbles are there in a bar of soap. If you can't answer that you can't vote,"' he added. 
Instead of promoting the gen­eral well-being, Plessy v. Ferguson promoted the superi­ority of one class and the inferi­ority of another, according to Francis. The Court's ruling ef­fectively left the historically black colleges as the only insti­tutions for black undergraduate degree-seekers. Francis summed up this difficult posi­tion by explaining, "Everywhere around them was the specter of inequality." 
Oddly, 1954's Brown v. Board of Education decision that re­versed Plessy's precedent brought historically black col­leges under fire. 
"People began asking why we needed black colleges. They said they were segregated. Well I'm the first black president of Xavier and I'll tell you the black college is not an anachronism," Francis stressed. 
He continued by emphasizing that inequality in education is not a threatening phenomena of the past. Recently, the Fifth Circuit Court of Appeals ruled that the University of Texas' Law School's affirmative action policies were unconstitutional. 
In a functionally similar move, the first executive order of newly elected Louisiana Gov­ernor Michael Foster was to abolish affirmative action. In­terestingly, Francis explained that Foster is the grandson of Murphy Foster, a former gov­ernor who 100 years ago stripped blacks, women, and 
Celebrate a friend's birthday with a special Observer ad. 

If you are interested in joining the Challenge U Fitness team, you need to: 
1. 
Pick up an Aerobic Instructor Application from the RecSports office. Return the completed form on Friday, April12. 

2. 
Attend an Aerobics Workshop on Friday, April12, 5:30-7:30, Gym 4, Joyce Center. You will learn a routine which you will 


perform at instructor auditions, Tuesday, April 23. Please bring a cassette tape. 
3. Set up an interview with Jennie Phillips, Fitness Coordinator. 
ments, I'm disturbed, and given 
my experiences, I have cause to 
be. If we allow ourselves to let 
Plessy be repeated, we are all 
at risk," he said. 
"The historic black college 
system has proved that you can 
take young people from ineffec­
tive early educational systems 
and teach them something. The 
mind is an unlimited facility," 
Francis stressed. 
He continued by lamenting 
the repeal of affirmative action 
that Fifth District universities 
are now facing. 
"What are we going to do 
when they [minority students] 
show up on our doorstep? We 
should give them the opportu­
nity to fulfill their potential," he 
concluded. 
Francis' lecture titled "Plessy, 
the Rise of the Historically 
Black College," was the fifth of 
its series. Lecturers in Henkels 
Visiting Scholar Series 
"Separate But Still Unequal," 
are sponsored by Paul M and 
Barbara Henkels. 

r------------------------, 
STRONG • FAST • CLEAN 
WOLFF BEDS 
[fml:AGO HAm & TAN~ 
5804 Grape Rd. Indian Ridge Plaza 277-7946 
'some state &teileral re~111auou~ n'1<~y.q~pty. 10 LOPVIII!hl !99bLnrcauo Harrcutting Co 





beatings fuels debate 
Associated Press 
LOS ANGELES 
A California Highway Patrol officer at scene of a beating of two illegal immigrants told a fel­low officer that deputies were "whaling on those guys," ac­cording to an audiotape of the confrontation. 
The tape also makes clear that the deputies, who repeat­edly shouted "Get down!" didn't use Spanish until after striking the immigrants repeatedly. 
Their first order in Spanish, "Manos aqui!" or "Hands here!" came as they were putting handcuffs on the two immigrants, who don't speak English. 
A videotape, shot by heli­copter news cameras on April 1 and released the same day, shows Riverside County deputies Kurt Franklin and Tracy Watson using batons to strike a Mexican 
~ONDON 
FRANHFURT PARIS AMSTERDAM VIENNA 

Fares are ~om Indianapolis. each waq based o~ a_RT purchase. Fares do not include federal taxes and passenger tactiiNes charges. whtch can total between SI9.9S and S31.9S. depending on the desNnation. nordolheqincludedeparturechargespatddirecllqtotoforeigngov· emments. which can toliil between Sl.OO and SGO.OO.Inf IStudent to maq be required. Fares Me sub;ett to change. RestricNons applqValid for departures until 31 Haq 1996 
Europo55fromS210 

~W~~~~11~ra~ve~l-~ 
CIEE: Council on International Educational Exchange 
On the Web: http://www.ciee.org/cts/ctshome.htm 


1-800-2-COUNCI~ 
[l-B00-226-8624) 
man and woman at the end of an 80-mile chase in a pickup truck crammed with illegal immigrants. 
CHP Officer Marco DeGennaro had turned on a audio tape recorder when he joined the chase. Its existence was un­known to investigators until the weekend. 
On it, he described the beating to a CHP sergeant moments after he witnessed it from a few feet away. 
"Those SOs (sheriffs officers) were whaling on those guys," said DeGennaro, who had ap­prehended one of the people fleeing from the pickup. "All I did was grab mine and throw him on the ground." 
The sergeant asks: "Were there cameras?" 
DeGennaro: "There were cameras, sarge. Nothing hap­pened on CHP side. Yeah, all the 
there." 

Are you prepared? We are. 
• Limit of IS Students per Class 
+ 
Free Extra Help 

+ 
The Best Instructors 

+ 
Satisfaction Guaranteed 


THE , PRINCETON REVIEW 
Call today! Classes are forming now. 



(800)865-7737 
T.P.R. ia not affilia!ed with Princeton University or the E.T S. 


JUNIOR RETREAT I996 
Saturday, April 2..0 4:00 p.m. through Sunday, April 2..1 6:00 p.m. 


ALL JUNIORS WELCOME! 
Applications available at the Library Campus Ministry Office. Return them to the Library Campus Ministry Office by Friday, April 19, at 4:oopm. 
Cost: $15 Place: Parish Center 

Participants meet at the Badin Hall Chapel at 4:00p.m. on Saturday, April 20. 
Sponsored by Campus· Ministry Questions?? CaU Fr. Bob Dowd, C.S.C. (I~]8oo or 1'5056) 
.. ............ .. -... .......... -................... ..
~ ' 

-~~---~------------------------~----~-------~-------------~-------------..------.--~ 
Wednesday, April 1 0, 1996 
The Observer • NEWS page 7 

GM, Ford top Fortune 500 Clinton signs line-item 

A"ociatcd Press 
NEW YORK 
Many job seekers and econo· 
mists believe there's more work 
to be found at small companies 
rather than huge corporations. 
The 1995 Fortune 500 rankings 
suggest they're right. 
Fortune magazine's annual 
listing of the nation's biggest 
publicly-held firms shows col­
lective employment levels 
increased a scant 0.2 percent, 
although the big companies' 
total profits profits grew 13 
percent. 
The list released Monday 
renects the downsizings and 
rHstructurings that began dur­
ing the last recession and con­
tinue today. The 500 also 
reflect the big mergers of 1995. 
ThH top live companies on the list lwld their places from 1994: No. 1 General Motors Corp. was followed by Ford Motor Co. in sm:ond place. Exxon Corp. in third. Wal-Mart Stores Inc. in fourth and AT&T Corp. in lifth. 
Fortunn, which is publishing the 500 list in its April 29 edi­tion. ranks the companies by annual rnvenues. The magazine also looks at their earnings, and found they made $244 bil· lion in 1995, up from $215.25 billion in 1994. 
Yet total employment at the 500 hanlly budgnd from the previous year, as job additions only just offset the layoffs and job cuts that have become com­monplace in U.S. lirms. 
Fortune did find hiring strong in sonw industries, like com­puters and lwalth cam, but the minusl'ule inereasn owrall sup­ports the widnly-hHid belief' that smaller and younger compa­nies, especially start-up lirms, present bntt1~r opportunities for job seekers. 
Ttte tiny increase in jobs also 
suggests many big companies 
have learned to do more using 
about the same, or fewer. 
workers. 
At No. 88 Goodyear Tire & 
Rubber Co., revenue was up 7.1 
percent and profits rose 7.8 
percent although employment 
fell 2,700 to 87,390. At No. 7 
General Electric Co., revenue 
rose 8.3 percent and profits 

jumped 39.1 percent as the 
company increased its work 
force by 1,000 employees, or 

about .04 percent. 
At other companies, such as 

No. 40 Boeing Co., job losses 
did mean lower revenue. 
But not all the job reductions were due to layoffs or the elimi­nation of staff. Employment at No. 16 Kmart Corp. fell to 250,000 from 335,000, partly because the store chain spun off some of its subsidiaries into separate companies. That also helped push Kmart down one notch on the list from No. 15. 
Some of the Kmart jobs were added back to the total Fortune 500 employment as OfficeMax, a former Kmart division, joined the list at No. 483. 
There was evidence of corpo­rate makeovers throughout the list. Sears, Roebuck and Co. fell to 15th place from No. 9 after spinning off Allstate Insurance -which is so big it debuted at No. 31. 
ITT Corp. broke up into three, and all made the list. The con­glomerate ranked No. 23 in 1994. Federated Department Stores Inc., after digesting R.H. Macy & Co. Inc. and Broadway Stores Inc., moved up to No. 69 from 141. 
Some stalwarts of the past were history: Borden Inc. was 
Big~ Yes. Profltable?­Not-always~?;§~; ;:x~ -­
No. 1 General Motors also was No. profits last year. But the size ranking lhe Fortune 500 club doesn't translate into bigger profits. 

· Winners ''"' J~f·"' . 
Company. ranking In Fortune 500. 1 earning~ General Motors (1) $6y~s-·bunorl··y_: 
(lenerafEieciric' (7) $6.57 billion:: · 

~xxon (3) $6.47 billio.;t· Philip Morris''(io)' \f1F $5.45 billion'*' International Business 
Machines (6) $4.18 billion Ford Motor (2) $4.14 billion 
Intel (60) $3.57 billion (i; Citicorp (19) $3.47 billion 
Merck (55) $3.34 billion Dupont (13) $3.29 billion 
Losers 

Company, ranking In Fortune 500, 1995 loss 
Pacific Telesis Group (144) -$2.31 billion GTE (38) -$2.14 billion Nynex (85) -$1.85 billion Bellsouth (49) -$1.23 billion SBC Communications (93) -$930 million Melville (110) -,$657.1 million Unisys (203) -,$624.6 million Kmart (16) ,a -$571 million Metropolitan Life i 
Insurance (22) -,$559.4 million '1 Morrison Knudsen (484) -,$484 million l 
·--~·. _ __.__:___.-·___· ~-_j 

Source: Fortune magazine AP 
swallowed by investment firm Kohlberg Kravis Roberts & Co. Capital Cities/ ABC and CBS dis­appeared as part of the big media merger boom. Great Atlantic & Pacific Tea (A&P to most of us). was evicted from the list because it's now owned by a foreign company. 
GM was the most profitable company, earning $6.88 billion for the year. 

veto to 'eliminate waste' 
By RON FOURNIER transfer such authority from Associated Press one branch to another. A federal employees union WASHINGTON immediately filed a lawsuit 
Handing the presidency un­challenging the law as precedented spending power, unconstitutional. President Clinton today signed "It has an unconstitutional the line-item veto bill and said allocation of authority to the it would help slash "special-in­president," said Robert M. terest boondoggles, tax loop­Tobias, president of the Na­holes and pure pork." tional Treasury Employees 
Four pens used to sign the Union. historic legislation were dis­"We're very much afraid of a patched to former Presidents hostile president who mightReagan, Ford, Carter and Bush veto a federal employee pay in­-all of whom sought the au­crease," he said. thority to cut specific items "It isn't a question of efficien­from spending bills. cy or effectiveness, the ques­
"I thank them and our coun­tion is does it violate the 
try thanks them," Clinton said Constitution." in an Oval Office ceremony. Seated at his desk, the presi­"Their successors will be able dent said, "For years, presi­to use this power that they long dents of both parties have sought to eliminate waste from pounded this very desk in frus­
the federal budget." tration at having to sign neces­
The new law, which fulfills a sary legislation that contains GOP "Contract With America" special-interest boondoggles, promise, allows the president tax loopholes and pure pork. to carve out provisions from "The line-item veto will givespending bills -even while us a chance to changn that," he 
signing the legislation. said. 
Until now, Congress had jeal· In 1985, Reagan pleaded for ously guarded its power over a line-item veto, promising:federal purse strings, turning "Then I'll make the cuts; I'll back more than 200 attempts take the responsibility -and since the days of Ulysses S. the heat ... and I'll enjoy it." 
Grant to give the president a Despite questions about con­line-item veto. stitutionality, Congress decided 
It does away with a require­the president needed a new ment, in place since the na­tool to combat the federal tion's founding, that a presi­deficit. dent must approve or r·eject Future presidents will be able legislation in its entirety. to strike out individual items 
Opponents characterized it as from spending bills, including a dangerous ceding to the ex­appropriations, narrowly tar· ecutive branch of Congress' geted tax breaks covering 100 power to spend tax money, and or fewer people and new or ex· argued that it would take a panded entitlements, such as constitutional amendment to Medicare or veterans' benelits. 
Attention All Notre Dame Undergraduates! Future Notre Dame Students want to meet you! The Admissions Office has recently mailed decision letters to high school seniors. We expect many, many (at least 400 or so) of these admitted students will want to visit campus and learn about the Notre Dame Experience first-hand from current Notre Dame students. WE NEED YOUR HELP! We are asking that each on-campus student help us by volunteering to host a student overnight for one or more of the following dates: Wednesday, April 10 _ Friday, April 19 _ Thursday, April 11 _ Saturday, April 20 _ Friday, April 12 _ Sunday, April 21 _ Saturday, April 13 _ Monday, April 22 _ Sunday, April 14 _ Tuesday, April 23 _ Monday, April15 _ Wednesday, April 24 _ Tuesday, April 16 _ Thursday, April 25 _ Wednesday, April 17 _ Friday, April 26 _ Thursday, April 18 _ Saturday, April 27 _ We ask that you complete this form today and drop it by the Admissions Office ( 11 3 Main Building). lf you prefer, you can call Jennifer Carrier at 1-7 505 and let her know which dates you would be willing to host. She also will take any questions you have about the program. (You can, if you like, drop this form in campus mail, but please do it now because time is running short.) A final option is to reply by e-mail to the following address: Jennifer.M.Schlueter.1 @nd.edu The students in our next Freshman class are calling today to visit very shortly. Any assistance you can give them will be greatly appreciated. On behalf of next year's freshmen, we thank you for your generosity. The Admissions Office 11 3 Main Building 631-7505  

--~------~-­
~--­
~ page 8 The Observer • NEWS Wednesday, April 10, 1996 
..:__::_______________________=::....:::_=:..:..::::______:=--:.==--:....:-=----------------. 
Unabomber linked to victims Rostenkowski pleads 
By RICHARD COLE 
Associated Press 
SAN FRANCISCO 
Investigators who had long theorized that the Unabomber chose his targets from books, the media or radical environ­mental publications have dis­covered possible direct links between suspect Theodore Kaczynski and at least four of the victims. 
Four of the targets had fre­quented universities where Kaczynski studied or worked, or had positions in those areas, federal law enforcement sources said Tuesday. 
And at least two bombs had written references to people who may also have crossed his path. 
"I think the possibility of that is very high -that there was much more of a personal con­nection with these people that we previously had believed," said an investigator who spoke on condition of anonymity. 
Four victims in the 16 attacks taught at, attended or fre­quently visited schools where Kaczynski was enrolled or worked: 
Pat Fisher, professor of com­puter science at Vanderbilt University, was the target of a 1982 mail bomb. Fisher said he attended the Massachusetts In­stitute of Technology when Kaczynski was at Harvard Uni­versity -both in Cambridge, Mass. -in the early 1960s, and took a class at Harvard. 
"We could have been in the same class," Fisher said. "I think he knew who I was." The connection continued: Kaczyn­ski went to graduate school in the math at the University of Michigan, and Fisher fre­quently visited there because his father worked in the same department. 
James McConnell, injured in a 1985 Unabomber attack, was a psychology professor at the University of Michigan when Kaczynski attended that school in the mid-1960s. 
The Unabomber's first fatal victim was Hugh Scrutton, a Sacramento computer store owner. 
Scrutton took math classes at the University of California at Berkeley during the summer of 1967, the year Kaczynski began teaching in that department, although he didn't teach Scrutton's course. 

Percy Wood, the airline ex­ecutive targeted by a 1980 mail bomb, lived in the Oakland­Piedmont area when Kaczynski ta,ught in neighboring Berkeley. More significantly, Wood served on the San Francisco Bay Area Air Pollution Control District's advisory council from 196 7 to 1969, the years Kaczynski taught at Berkeley. 
Wood told The Oakland Tri­bune that he didn't remember Kaczynski or any major envi­ronmental controversies that might have attracted the Un­abomber's attention. 
There were intriguing refer­ences to· two other people Kaczynski knew in two other bombings. 




Mourners remember Brown 

By LAURA MYERS 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
Hundreds of mourners, shar­ing a rainbow of umbrellas and torrent of public sorrow, stood for hours in a cold driving rain Tuesday to bid good-bye to Commerce Secretary Ron Brown.·· 
"He always told me, 'Keep hope alive,' but another bright light is out in the sky," said Roy Lewis, who worked with Brown in Democratic politics. 
Brown was to lie in repose for 24 hours in the ornate lobby of the Commerce Department, his body in a mahogany coffin on top of a black-velvet-draped catafalque built in 1865 to bear the body of President Lincoln. The funer­al bier has been used for other American presidents, including John F. Kennedy, Dwight Eisenhower and Lyndon Johnson, and Supreme Court justices and military leaders. 
A full-honors funeral is scheduled Wednesday for Brown at Arlington National Cemetery after President Clin­ton delivers a eulogy at the Na­tional Cathedral. Brown, 54, died with 32 other Americans and two other people in a plane crash in Croatia while on a trade miSsion to the former Yu­goslavia. 
The Commerce Department, where employees are being of­fered counseling, was to be closed nationwide on Wednes­day in a day of mourning. 

Office ofStudent Activities is accepting applications for positions as office assistant. Applicants will be responsible for run­ning errands, serving as a receptionist, typing and filing, and various other office duties as assigned. Must be familiar with WP 6.0. 
Applications should be turned in to 315 LaFortune no later than April19. Interviews begin April 24. 


The Observer 
Attention All News Writers: 
Ifyou are interested in writing for 

The Observer 
News Department, 
Please attend the inaugural Writers' Workshop on Wednesday, AprillO, at 7:30PM at The Observer, 3rd floor LaFortune. This meeting is mandatory ifyou want to write during the rest ofthe semest~r. 


Questions? Call Brad at 1-5323 
In a brief late-morning cere­mony Tuesday, Brown's body arrived at the Commerce De­partment as his family and Vice President AI Gore looked on, huddling in the driving rain, holding hands and holding back tears. Brown's widow, Alma, held tightly to her adult children, Michael and Tracey. 
A Navy band played "Nearer My God To Thee" as eight honor guard pallbearers, their young serious faces streaked wet, carried the flag-draped casket across a red carpet into the building. 
No words were spoken before or after the military honors, the eerie silence broken only by the rat-a-tat of raindrops on um­brellas as mourners lined the 
· closed streets. 
Sponsored by: 
The Kroc Institute for International Peace Studies, The Center for Social Concerns, and Campus Ministry. 



guilty to mail fraud 
By LARRY MARGASAK 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 

Dan Hostenkowski, the once­powerful House committee chairman, pleaded guilty Tues­day to two mail fraud charges in a deal that will bring him a 17 -month prison term. 
The gruff, former head of the Ways and Means Committee entered his plea before U.S. District Judge Norma Holloway Johnson. 
In return, prosecutors will recommend that the 68-year­old Chicago Democrat serve 17 months in prison and pay a $100,000 fine. 
Rostenkowski, who ran his tax-writing committee with an iron hand and was the quintes­sential congressional deal­maker, vowed two years ago to "fight these false charges" and prevail. 
"I will walk away from mud that has been splattered upon my reputation," Rostenkowski said the day he was arraigned on the charges. 
He was charged in May 1994 
Montgomery Theater 
with converting $636,600 in federal funds-and $56,267 in campaign funds -to his per­sonal use. 
Nearly two years ago, Hos­tenkowski rejected a possible deal that would have included a guilty plea to one false state­ment count, a six-month prison term and restitution of $38,000 to the government. 
The rejection led to a falling out between Rostenkowski and the prominent Washington at­torney then representing him, Robert Bennett 
Rostenkowski, who lost his bid for a 19th term to Republi­can political novice Michael Flanagan, originally was charged with 17 criminal counts. 
He was accused of mail fraud; conspiring to receive personal cash from the House Post Office; using official funds to pay employees who per­formed mainly personal work for him; using official funds to obtain ~rmchairs, crystal, china and other items from a House supply store for personal use; and obstructing justice. 
Happy 21st Birthday Beth! 

WOMEN'S RESOURCE CENTER-SEX OffENSE SERVICES CAMPUS ALLIANCE for RAPE ELIMINATION 
ADDRESSING COMMUNITY VIOLENCE 
Montgomery Thwer 

SOUTH BEND HERITAGE fOUNDATION-DISHAS HOUSE WORLD PEACE ACTION-KIDS in DANGEROUS SITUATIONS NEIGHBORHOOD MEDIATION PROJECT 
VIOLENCE IN DATING RELATIONSHIPS 
Lafortune Ballroom -Brown Bag lunch DR. MICKEY FRANCO 
1:30-4:00 CONFLICT RESOLUTION WORKSHOP 
RESOLVING INTERPERSONAL DIFFERENCES Lafortune Ballroom PROF. GARY ZIMMERMAN -Manchester College 
1:30-4:00 MOVIE & DISCUSSION 
Mon Theater 

--.--.--~----~--r-­
------------------------------~--~------------------~--~.----~--..--------.---~----~~--~ 





VIEWPOINT 
Wednesday, April I0, 1996 page 9 

THE OBSERVER 
NoTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY's OFFICE: .~09 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219),284-5365 
1996-97 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Elizabeth Foran Managing Editors Business Manager Parrit:ia Carson Manhew Casey 
Tom Roland News Editor ........................ Brad Prendergast Advertising Manager ............................ Ellen Ryan Viewpoint Editor .................. Meaghan Smith Ad Design Manager ............................... Jed Peters Spons Editor .....................Timothy Sherman Production Manager ....................... Tara Grieshop Accent Editor........................... joey Crawford Systems Manager ............................ Sean Gallavan Saint Mary's Editor................. Caroline Blum Controller .......................................... Tyler Weber l'hoto Editor .......................... Michael Ruma 
The Oh,erver is the independent newspaper published by rhe srudents of the University of Notre Dame du l~c and Saint Mary's College. h does nm necessarily reflect the policies ofrht' adminisua­rion of either institution. The news is reponed as accurarely and objectively as possible. Unsigned edi­torials rrpresC"Itt rhe opinion of thr majoriry of the Edimr-in·Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, ViC'wpoim Ediror, Accent Editor, Photo Ediwr, Sporrs Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commrmaries, lcuers and I nsidc Columns prt'SC'nt the views of tht' authors, and not necessarily those of The Obscrvrr. Vicwpuim spa(c is available mall members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's com­munity and wall reader!'>. Thr free t·xpression of varying opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines Editur·in-Chief 6.~ 1-4'>42 Business Office 631-5313 Managing Ediwr/Vicwpoint 6.~ 1-4541 Advertising 631-6900/8840 Spurt!'> 6.31-4543 Sysrems/M;trketing Dept. 631-8839 New!'>/ Photo 6.31-'>323 Office Manager 631-7471 Accent/Saint Maty's (dl-4'>40 !'ax 631-6927 lhy Editor/Produuiun 631-5303 Vie,wpoint E-Mail Viewpoim.l@nd.cdu ( ;t'llt"ral Information 631-7471 Ad E-Mail obscrver@darwin.cc.nd.edu 

• EDITORIAL 
Not a solution 
In its recommendations to Patricia O'Hara last month, the Ad Hoc Committee on Gay and Lesbian Student Needs called for a University group of gay and lesbian students to be constituted. The recommendation stipulated that the group would have an advisor approved by the Vice President of Student Affairs ­although input from the group would be solicited -and the grm!p s.!10uld exist in "special relationship to the office of Student AITa1rs. 
O'llaru's response to the committee's report was what she felt was adequate both for gay and lesbian students and a University community "that is committed to Gospel values and to the teach­ings of the Catholic Church." GJ.ND/SMC was once again denied recoh'Ilition, which was a condition from the start of the ad hoc committee's investigation, and a new University group was pro­posed. 
But what did her resolutions really solve? 
O'Hara's stipulations severely handicap the new University group. to the point where even the most basic functions of a col­lnction of students are denied. The University group, to be known as "Notre Dame Gays and Lesbians," will be unable to set up its own nuletings. nor will it have any formal control over those meetings through elected officials or student leadors. Moreover, the group will not have the opportunity to host speakers, a key resourctl that would have allowed group members to educate the campus or even· themselves on issues relating to gays and les­bians. 
The udvisor or advisors to the group are to be recommended to O'Hara by gay and lesbian students themselves, ·and these advi­sors will be responsible for organizing all meetings. 
Tllllse advisors also have to be approved' by O'Hara. In her response, O'Hara wrote, "fTlhe advisor must be someone with whom Student AO'airs can work." Translation: the advisor must btl sympathic to gay and lesbian students. yet be willing to toe the party line and accede to the University's desire for ultimate con­trol. As impotent liasons between the group and Student Affairs, the advisors will efTectively seal ofT meaningful contact between gay and lesbian students and Student Affairs. 
Which is what this all comes down to. This group serves little purpose other than to silence a minority that has more power as an unrecognized group than as a tightly controlled University "group." 
"(T)o facilitatB does not mean to control, nor does it mean to load," O'Hara wrote of the advisors' position regarding the group. Let's practice what we preach. 
Few stud(mts will join this group when they have more voice ouLo;;ide of it. This proposal serves only to further divide the issue. It accomplishes nothing, rather than trying to seriously meet the ntJeds of a minority cum pus group. 
Essentially the gay and lesbian students remain as powerless and voiceless as they are now, perhaps more so. With more of a voice, more publidty and a better opportunity to educate and push for change, GLND/SMC members are very unlikely to move from their current group and into the University's waiting arms. 
• DESIDERATA 
I apologize in advance, read­it's offensive to the First ers, but I'm going to have to Amendment right of free use my little space to vent my expression. Now, obviously, frustrations this week. If I some regulations of speech and didn't have the Ministry shows expression are permissible. to look forward to (and by the That's just common sense. But time you read this, they'll be these sorts of "time. place and over), I'd probably be pissed off manner" regulations must meet a~out everything. certain criteria in order to pass 
First off, there's my social constitutional muster. life-or perhaps I should say I'm not aware of any courts my lack thereof. Okay, so at considering an issue like this. least I still have music to In a case called Ward v. Rock enjoy-even if it's all by 
myself, driving to the gas station or the grocery store. And I can play it as loud as I want, right'? NOT ANY­MOHE! You see, the local 
Kirsten lawmakers decided that ,if you blast your music too loudly in your car, they 
Dunne 

should be able to take your car away from you. I have this wonderful 
loudspeaker in my car. It can be used to amplify one's voice; to activate one of several siren noises or a. loud horn, or-my personal favorite-to really jam. Being a music lover, I use this little toy extensively to express myself. When the NBA finals reach a conclusion I like, I drive around and let everyone hear Gary Glitter's "Rock an Holl Part II." When I'm in the mood to rough some­one up or tell him/her off, I take the less violent option and blast NWA tunes. When I learned that Ministry was touring again, I did nearby drivers and pedestrians the favor of playing "N.W.O." and "Stigmata" for them. The list goes on, but in short, I love my loud radio. Now it seems I can't even have any fun with the "normal" radio in the car, if I don't want the cops to be the proud new owners of my car. 
Not only do~;Js this make me angry because of the laws effects on me, personally though. More generally, I think Against Racism, the Supreme Court held that there was a First Amendment right to listen to loud rock music. Now. it did allow for "reasonable" noise restrictions, even if such restrictions are directed partic­ularly at LOUD music-and upheld a regulation whereby performers at a city park amphitheater were to use the city's sound technician and amplification equipment. I don't think that seizure of a vehicle can . under any sense of the word, be deemed a "rea­sonable" noise restriction. I don't see how this law was passed in the first place. and I certainly don't envision it being around very long. 
As if this weren't enough, last week they painted over the beautiful painting of Dennis Rodman on the Bigsby & Kruthers building, which graces the Kennedy inbound and made my ride to work more enjoyable. A city can reg­ulate billboards for purposes of 
traffic safety-which was the main concern here-but isn't supposed to distinguish among types of non-commercial bill­boards. pursuant to the Supreme Court's decision in Metromedia, Inc. v. City of San Diego. Thus the ordinance in Metromedia was struck down as unconstitutional, becausn it discriminated against non-com­mercial billboards generally and further discriminated among different types of 
such signs. The removal of the Dennis billboard, like­wise, demonstrated such a distinction, especially on the latter grounds (you'll see that Michael Jordan and Hyne Sandberg are still there.) 
Now. the city didn't force the removal of the sign; the Bigsby & Kruthers manage­

ment team went ahead and did it. But whether they did it of their own volition is another story. The city was complaining extensively about the few, minor traffic accidents at the billboard's site and about the drastic travel time increase of 10 minutes (which any rational person could tell you would dis­appear as the sign lost its new­ness.) Most of the commuters didn't mind and voiced their support through phone calls (I personally sent a letter) The management of Bigsby & Kruthers adores Dennis and loved the painting. I can reach but one conclusion: B & K whitewashed the artistic mas­terpiece due to pressure from art-hating city officials, who are probably also extremely jealous of Dennis. My ride to work is still not boring, though. Now it's maddening. No matter what goes in Dennis' place, all I'll be able to think about is what a shame the whole thing was-and how unnecessary, too. And I'll feel angry. 
• OllONEr~URY 
8£RNI£, I CAN'T 8W£.V£ YOU EX­
PE(;TM£3 70 
HANP-PIREAU 
TH&SE3 P&OP£&,, 
\ 
GARRY TRUDEAU 
• QuOTE OF THE DAY 
IT"3 ON£ OF THE RE'3Fal/5/81t..­f)()N'TNORRY/J80iffJAN ANP 
MMNING, 
mes OFu:A~IP, Ml/<13. 88TH. TH&Y'V& 8l£N M7H 
5TQ9(taJP. I KNON Y{)(/RE UP 70 /T... 5/Af:& TH/3 ee6/NNIM3. 
7H&Y'R£. 80TH MUt..ll-Mit..­
"Every~ody gets so much 
MYGOP-YOU'Re t./ONAIR£5. 
information all day long
&VENt&mNG YOUR 71AKJ SE!C-­
that they lose their common 
"',_ 1 LJJ•m-....., GO I 

sense. 
-Gertrude Stein 







ACCENT
page 10 Wednesday, April 10, 1996 
• ACCENT ASKS••• 

What do you Iike on your bagel? 


"What -isn't good on a· bagel?" 
Erin Luedecking Junior, Holy Cross 

"Butter and garlic." 
Sarah Karr Freshman, Cavanaugh 


" I like peanut butter and honey." 
Dan Santone Freshman,Zahm 

"Pickles:' 
Melissa Hanna Sophomore, Howard 


"A wheat bagel, toasted, green peppers and egg­plant for that vegetarian kick." 
Ashley Clark Sophomore, Holy Cross 
"Cream cheese and strawberry jelliin North Dining Hall." 
Matt Meichtry Sophomore, Zahm 


The "Holesome" /J 
By LESLIE FIELD 
Saint Mary's Accent Editor 
T
hink back to a sweeter time. A time filled with custard or strawberry jam, sur­rounded by a cushion of glazed delight. Children would dash out of church on Sundays, hoping to reach the donut table first. Sugar, powder, bear claws, chocolate, or plain. It really didn't matter because they were all delicious. 
Today, people don't eat donuts like they used to. A combination of low fat fads and new 90's style treats have, instead, made bagels the ultimate food for the health con­science person who still likes flavor and variety. Bagels have also become big business. Go to virtually any town in America with a Starbucks and you will almost always find a bagel shop nearby. 
New York delis and bagel shops have had the edge on bagels in America for as long as Americans can remember. It was the city to visit for bagel lovers who simply couldn't take another bite of their frozen Lenders. 
It has been rumored that the water used in making New York City bagels is chemically just right, producing a bagel of supreme chewability and taste. (A true bagel connoisseur never toasts their bagel.) But for non-New Yorkers, or New Yorkers choosing to spend a few years elsewhere, don't get all veclempt. There are bagel options here that just may surprise you. "Finagle A Bagel has the best bagels in the country as far as I am concerned, but there are some places around here that aren't too bad, like Studebagels," admitted native Bostonian and Stanford sophomore Ted Casieri. 
In South Bend, Studebagels seems to have the market on the city's best. bagels. According to Junior Cara Calcagno, "Studebagels is per­fect for a good bagel. They have a good choice of spreads and sandwich bagels, too. My favorite is the veggie lite on plain. The prices aren't too bad, either." 
Studebagels is known for their tasty veggie lite spreads and daily bagel of the day. Cranberry and pumpkin are two of their better specials. They advertise their bagels as low fat and always seem to be trying new spreads, which they encourage their customers to sample. They also offer soups of the day and have an espresso bar. With their bright atmosphere and upbeat music, Studebagels provides 

a nice environment for the bagel lover. 
Another spot which does not specialize in bagels but 
serves great ones is Lula's cafe, across the street from 
the Linebacker. Lula's is becoming famous for their cof­
fees and warm sourdough sandwiches, but many people 
haven't tried their bagels. Depending on the day, Lula's 
offers anything from plain to onion to poppyseed bagels. They are 
large and delicious when ordered warm or toasted with cream 
cheese. 


Avoiding the bust 
By RACHEL TORRES Accent Copy Editor 
S
aint Mary's College is a dry campus. So they say. The official policy at SMC regarding alcohol is very specific. If a student is under 21, she is not allowed to consume or even possess alcohol anywhere on campus. If a student is 21, she is allowed to consume alcohol, pro­
vided nobody under 21 is present. 
While this is the official policy, it does not reflect real campus life. Granted, SMC is no hotbed of drunken festivity, and yes, the policy does curb drinking habits to a degree, but underage drinking is very definitely a reality on campus. 
What's the big deal, really? College studer. ts are college students and if they want to drink, they're going to drink. What is amazing about SMC policy is the college knuws students drink anyway. Walk down a hallway in any dorm on the night of a dance, and you will hear the parties. Does the college think they're drinking kiddie cocktails and apple juice? No. They know students are drinking alcohol. Some R.A.s even dole out advice on how not to get caught if you ask them nicely enough to share the secrets. Sometimes these parties are abruptly ended by R.A.s, but most of the time they're safe. 
Why are they safe? Because the people having them know what to do to avoid getting busted. My point in this article is not to argue the ludicrousness of SMC alcohol policy, which could very easily be pone. Instead, it is to show you how to get away with drinking when you and your friends want to plan a social gather­ing with alcohol. 
Many students speak from experience. When a group of students returned from fall break this year, they celebrated with a party...with alcohol. With the help of some grumpy neighbors and a random male guest who did not under­stand the phrase, "you need an escort if you want to go anywhere," they were r busted. The scene that followed was nightmarish. Two R.A.s came into the room, took everybody's names and ID numbers, and made them dump all of the unopened cans. 
That night, six parties were busted in one dorm. On the bright side, that group's was the biggest with the most favorable male/female ratio. However, they all had to meet with the hall director to acknowledge that they were in violation of this won-· · · · · · ·· · · · derful policy. They found that the penalties for alcohol violation range from warnings to expulsion from the dorm with an inevitable disciplinary record that comes along with any punishment. The R.A.s actual­ly gave them some tips on how not to get in trouble again, and these, along with learning from other mistakes will help you when you host a party. 
1. Talk to your neighbors ahead of time. While most decent people will have no problem with a mini­mal amount of noise on a weekend, some people can get pretty anal. The courteous and smart thing to do is to let your neighbors know that there might be some excessive amount of noise on the night of your party. Ask them to come and tell you personally if they think the noise is getting out of hand rather than notify the R.A. on call. This way, the R.A. is not obligated to try to stop the noise and won't discover any alcohol. 



ACCENT
Wednesday, April I 0, 1996 page II 
nut Alternative 
But it's a Saturday and you ne1~d to escape the rain and wind of South Bend. So you head to Ch!cago unly to find less rain and more wind. The car ride has ~ade.you hungry and you are crav~ng a Sourdough bagel with Carrot Hummus spread? Why not? Emstem ~agels l?cated all over the Chicago anm, from Lineoln Park on Diversey to Oak Park, otTers an amazmg vanety of bagels, spreads and 
sandwidws. Their cream cheese spreads include Sun-Dried Tomato, Spanish Dill Lite, Cranberry Nut Orange and Chive Dive. They 1wen have a hrnakfast bagr.l callr.d the scrambled egg sand­wil'h. "It's nie1~ to wakn up and walk down to Einstein's to grab a Wrrific breakfast that's not too heavy," Megan 
.Junius, a Notre Damn graduate currnntly living in Lincoln Park commented. The Scrambled Egg sandwich sr.lls for two dollars and thirty cents. which also contributes to its attractibility. Other popular Einst1~in bagels indudn The Veg-Out, The Tasty Turkey, Snwhd Salmon and the Works and the 
ThrPe Cheesn Bagel Sandwich. If you are 
not up for the filling value meal of bagels, like tlw Four dollar and tw1-mty-live cent Invent Your Own Sub. tlwn you may want to giv1~ tlw BagPI Chips and Dips a whirl. For only a dollar sixty-live, it c~n be a solid snack or light meal. Einstein Bagels is clearly a good choice If you arn looking for bagnl variety and good service. Another popular mid-West 
bagPI spot is 

Thrnn Mnn and a bagel. Carrying similar spreads as Studebagels, Three MPn and a Bagnl has comp1~titive prices along with a great variety of bagels. If you arn (wading WI)St, ~top ofT in Seattle where the creative Bagel and Chocolate Soup Company thrives. The restaurant is complete with an espresso bar and a tire place with wing back chairs. And a bowl of chocolate soup tastes pretty good on a rainy Northwest afternoon, too. That's right, chocolate soup. "I was in Seattle and was drawn to the place just because 'll' its ratrhy name. I went in and ordered an onion bagel with cream eheese and fdt like I had to try the dweolate soup. It was fun," said Saint Mary's sopho­uwre Anue Geisler. From the Northwest all the way to the Northeast, yet another bagel eraze has started with Bruegger's Bagels. They are a young company, likn Studnbagels. and will give customers a free bagel if they. wish tlwrn a happy birthday. "We all went into different Bruegger's and wished tlwm a happy birthday. We got ten free bagels in all. I still can't believe we sang llappy Birthday to random employees. It was worth it, thoug~1. I go back all thH time.," said sophomore .Jeannie Merna of Farley. So enJOY the 
many tyJms of hagPls that are being made frnsh daily for you all over the country. They may not lw as sw1~1~l as a donut, but they sure arc "holesomc." 
I dorm party 101 
. a cap on the number of people you let into the party room. ·~h.is mean~ t!1at the party should be und your invited friends and should not encourage strange ~lSI tors. It IS Important to know that lends am trustworthy and respect the rules they should loll~w. ~hen too many people get ,d into a dorm room, even the great big rooms at SMC, the party IS on Its way to gettmg busted. 
. ke sure your guests are aware of bask SMC policies. Bad things can happen wh~n gu.ys ~m~e party and don't realize things like -a) fhey ne~~ to be escorted, a?d -b) what they re dr111k111g IS 
not legal. Honestly, if they know basic nohews, your guests will be much more .careful about tlwir tendencies to wander the halls by themselves to lind a bathroom and will work much harder to keep their noise levels down. 
It is very frustrating to hear your guy friends say, "Oh, I didn't know you guys can't have 
parties," or, "Gosh, what's an escort?" Sure, you .mi~ht have alread~ tol.~ them, but t~es.e 
are guys. and sometimes they have 1roblems with memory retentiOn..You ~ust dnll1t 
into their brains that they have to be careful. Help them to exerCise thmr common 
sense. Bow do you do this'? 

4. Make sure your guests are aware of the co?seq.uences of getting bust~d. Boys get their names and mnumbers put on the vwlatwn report, too, and copies get sent to their rectors. Somet!me.s nothing happens to the~, but one male guest at a SMC party got r.retty sick 111 a bathroom, and faced either a $200 tine or 40 hours of community.;ervice. 
Some SMC students dm't know consequences, either. None of them would want to face possible probation '>r a definite disciplinary record. When the con­seqwmces are known, everybody will want to be much more careful. I low can they be careful? 
5. Don't let anybody touch the ;tereo. As soon as a good song comes on the party mix. people will want to run and turn up the volu.me. Do not let them do this. If H.A.s get noise complaints, .)r happen to be walk111g past the par.ty room and think it's too loud, they can knock 'ln the door and ask you to keep 1t down. 
If they see alcohol, you're busted and that's no ~un. . . 
Noise violations don't just come from loud music; loud voices are a detimte haz­
ard. Allow no yelling, obnoxious laughing, or excited screams. Make sure your guests who 
bust a move to the tunns don't stomp too hard on the floors. t:\ven though you've already 
to your IH~ighbors, you don't want to take any chances. 
!onitor tlw tratlic flow into and out of the room. When the door opens an? closes too many times. 
As have more chances to peek in or hear your noise. You don't wantt,his to happen. Tell people 
nee tlwy're in, they should stay in unless their bladders are just about to explode and they must 
11 bathroom. se six littln tips may s1~em insignificant, but they are the difference b.etwee11 a successful pa.rty a~d tml on1L Healize that you will have to repeat them many times, or wnte them 1.~d put them 111 plam as sonw SMC students do. This is important because people tend to get swept mto the party mode 1ecomn... ah, less responsible. Party hardy and stay safe! 
• ACCENT SPEAKS••• 
The death of the "Dead" 
By J.R. YANCHAK 
Accent Copy Editor 
0 
n August 9, 1995, the music died. A whole lifestyle came to a tragic end. One of the most talented gui­tarists who ever lived succumbed to the weight of nearly three decades of abuse. In short, the Dead died. Whether you saw the Grateful Dead as remarkably talented musical geniuses or a cheap excuse to smoke pot with a crowd of thousands, the legacy th(~y left behind is as incredible as it is extensive. 
A Dead show was an experience unlike any other. Thou­sands of men and women. boys and girls cavorted in both natural and unnatural dazes. Vendors handed out nitmus­tllled balloons to eager teens while others peddled less legal merchandise that, unfortunately. eame to symbolize the Dead and, eventually, proved to be their downfall. But most of all, there was the music, music unlike any found anywhere else. 
What do you get when you mix rock, blues, and country ? A typical Grateful Dead song embraced inlluences from all three genres and melded them into a vibrant fusion of melodic perfection. Their music belongs somewhere in u unique corner of rock-and-roll. Moreover, their influence can be heard and seen in many newer bands, most notably l'hish. 
From the country-tinged sound of Workingman's Dead to the psychadelic extravagence of Aoxomoxoa, through more than thirty albums. the Dead's body o!' work allowed them to deliver ever-changing, ever-expanding sets of their unique bluesy rock sound. 
Someone once noted that the band could play for at least three days before running out of new material for the set. Only one Dead album ever broke the all mighty Billboards Top 100. and the Dead never enjoyed the commercial suc­cess they deserved. That was all right with the band an 
d its fans however. Better to keep the secret to them­selves. The Deadheads stood united only when their idols performed. These weren't just aging hippies and teens rebelling against their parents, but a diverse range of peo­ple from all walks of life, from lawyers and businessmen to professional basketball players . 
Of course. there was no shortage of the tie-dyed, peace­sign wearing, aging hippies traveling in their magic buses across the country. It was a brotherhood that traveled across the nation, supporting each other. relying on each other, and enjoying the music they loved . 
Jerry Garcia became the heart and soul of the band after lead singer and keyboardist Ron "Pigpen" McKernan died in the early 70's. Through the next two decades, Garcia came to symbolize the band and all it stood for. As a blues guitarist he knew no match. As a singer, his soulful voice replaced that of Pigpen and perhaps even superceded it. His death was a shocking blow that the band could not sur­vive. Combined with the negative publicity thf't had reeent­ly hounded their shows, the Dead decided to give it up and pursue solo interests after the body of their revered leader finally gave into years of drug abuse. 
Without the Grateful Dead, music is missing one of its fundamental elements. The bands that emerged from its roots in the sixties and continued with its sonic beauty long after its fellow bands bore in the ideological tires of the "Age of Aquarius" called it quits. Jefferson Airplane and the other bands that so epitomized the ethic and identity of the sixties retired or split into solo careers. 
None maintained the integrity and dedication the Dead showed during their nearly three deeades of performance. The spirit of the first Woodstock gave into the disco age of the seventios and the corporate greed of the eightitls. 
As Jerry was laid to rest, fans aeross the nation mourned a loss that struck their very souls. However, immortalized on T-shirts, posters, stickers, and other other merchandise that could be conceived as well as a Ben and Jerry's flavor. Jerry lives on. More importantly. the beliefs ~nd t~e . . integrity of the band lives on through that umque loelmg o1 brotherhood between relative strangers and that undying lire inspired by the sonic spaceways of song. 
A"> the Dead pass into the pantheon of bands past, it is our responsibility, the responsibility of those who loved and listened to them. to continue the work they started. Brotherhood is sorely needed in the strife-ridden times of ttlday. But with a little magie. a little music, and maybe n couple of hits, it could just be possible. 
.., 

-
-

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from II a.m. to I p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center at
Classifieds Saint Mary's. Deadline for nexr-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
NOTICES 
THINKING OF PRIESTHOOD? Check us out at: http://members.aol.com/lrjohnr/ 
html/voc1.html e-mial: frjohnr@aol.com 
Need some action, adventure, and romance in your life? Then come to the James Bond Film Festival this week at Cushing! 
April10-Dr. No 

CRUISE SHIPS NOW HIRING ­Earn up to $2,000+/month working on Cruise Ships or Land-Tour com­panies. World travel. Seasonal & full-time employment available. No experience necessary. For more information call1·206-971-3550 ext. C55844 
$ Cruise Ships Hiring! Students Needed! $$$+Free Travel (Caribbean, Europe, Hawaii!) Seasonal/Permanent, No Exper. Necessary. Gde. 919-929-4398 extC1114 
CLAY TWNSHP 1&2 BDROOM UNITS ($350 & $450); STOVE, FRIG,UTILITIES INCLUDED; SEC.DEP&LASTMONTH;NEAR NOTRE DAME 272-1968. ALSO GRAD OR FACULTY UNIT: $375.00 PLUS UTILITIES; FURNISHED; SEC DEP&LAST MONTH; NEAR N.D. 272-1968. 

····················•******* 
NEED A PLACE THIS SUMMER? CALL US AT COLLEGE PARK CONDOS 273-1738 ****************•*********** 
HOT! HOT! HOT! Lose 20 lbs. by summer break! New Metabolism Breakthrough. Results Guaranteed. Free gift with purchase. $29.95 cost. Calll-800-334-1664. 
MOVING SALE! Love Seat, Computer Desk, Bunk Beds, and a Pinnacle Club Membership. Call 273-4959. 
MOVING I 289-9274 dble&sngle bed, desk, dressers, hideaway, TV cart, lamps, end tables PANTHER-Word on the street is that Marbury 
Happy 20th!!! It's hard and even and Iverson are reconsidering though things may change, you'll because Dante Calabria is certain always find a life-long friend in to be the first guard selected. LA!!! Thanks for all the memories, the laughs, and the The streak stands at two. I think it "unique" dates (will there ever be a will go until at least August. normal one?) ...Who knows??? Maybe I'll see you in 2000 with a The Hit-Dog. Touch 'em all big "Tiffany's" ??? lelia. 
LOVE A&F, GORILLA Flash. Ahhhha. He saved every 
one of us. Prayer to the Blessed Virgin (Never known to fail.) Oh, most The swashbucklin' Kiwi might just beautiful flower of MI. Carmel, fruit-be wearing a green jacket come 
April 11 -Goldfinger Want to get cash for your old  ful vine splendor of Heaven,  Monday.  
April 12-13 -Goldeneye Sega games? Call Jonathan  IRISH CO. B&B REGISTRY  Have something to sell?  Blessed Mother of the Son of God.  
X 1047  Stay at the "MOOSE KRAUSE  Use the Observer.  Immaculate Virgin, assist me in my  Gary stinks.  
All movies cost $2 and are at 8:00  HOUSE" or other approved homes.  necessity. Oh, Star of the Sea, help  
and 1 0:30 Wednesday-Saturday NANNY with a special 2:00 showing Sunday SMC Alumnus looking for live-in  Grad. -Football games 219-277-7003  PERSONAL  me and show me, herein you are my mother. Oh Mary, conceived  Hey, we're going in the right direc­lion. See, there's the bridge we  
afternoon. summer girl to care for 6 children in  without sin, pray for us who have  crossed.  
our Lake Forest, IL home. Must  Multi-bdrm home, quiet, off-street  0c0c0c0c0c0o0o0o0c0c0  recourse to thee (3X). Holy Spirit,  
Wanted: Responsible person to care love to swim and play with kids. Call  parking, laundry, C/A, small pet OK.  QUALITY COPIES, QUICKLY!!!  you who solve all problems light all  "Now you're all in big, big trouble"  
for two children (ages 2 & 4) in my Dorothy Wehmer (847)234-8125.  $300/mo.  THE COPY SHOP  roads so that I can attain my goal.  
home mid May -late August.  Call 232-5230.  LaFortune Student Center  You who gave me the divine gift to  Radiohead is cool.  
References required. Call Jeanne Summer Camp Employment  Phone 631-COPY  forgive and forget all evil against  
273-5930. Activity Instructors Needed!  2 roommates needed for  0c0c0c0o0o0o0c0c0c0c0  me and that in all instances in my  Hey, I bet your brother would've  
Northern Minnesota coed camp  AIR-CONOITIONED College Park  life you are with me. I want in this  given pretty good directions, too,  
NATIONAL PARKS HIRING-seeks qualified individuals to work  apartment this summer $230 + utili- Have an SYR this weekend?  short prayer to thank you for all  
Positions are now available at as cabin counselors who can also  ties. Call 273-6952  things as you confirm once again  calmly call me  
National Parks, Forests & Wildlife instruct in various activities.  Start it off with a bang! Come visit  that I never want to be separated  
Preserves. Excellent benefits + Archery, Athletics, Biking, Fencing, bonuses! Call: 1-206-971-3620 Riflery, Springboard Diving,  FOR SALE  the COLLEGIATE JAZZ FESTIVAL at Stepan Center. Have some  from you in eternal glory. Thank you for your mercy toward me and  You think you're so smart, but I've seen you naked.  
ext.N55846 Waterskiing, and Woodworking are  refreshments and listen to some  mine. The person must say this  
some of the activities in need of  For Sale: A 1990 Red Two-Door  jazz. A guaranteed good time, and  prayer 3 consecutive days. After 3  Do you believe that we are all  
FERRIS! FERRIS! FERRIS! great instructors. Also seeking WSI  Chevy Cavalier. In good condition.  what better way to show your date  days, the request will be granted.  innately good?  
certified lifeguards. Representative  Call Wendy at 273-5818  what a cultured person you are!  This prayer must be published after  
Michiana Paintball -If you've never will be on the NO campus APRIL 10  the favor is granted.  Oh yeah, but my arm didn't get too  
played you'll love the game -If from 10-2 at LaFortune Center in  FURNITURE FOR SALE!  SAINT MARY'S COLLEGE  --------­ tired. Either time.  
you've played before you'll love the Dooley Lounge. Questions?  Sola, Dining Set, Waterbed,  FALL BREAK IN  ADOPTION -We understand the  
field. 291-9462 Contact Camp Foley, HCR 77 Box  Papasan, Bookshelves, Dresser,  WASHINGTON D.C.  strength it takes to choose adop­ That's what you (or I?) get for lick­ 
172, Pine River, MN 56474 218­ Coffee Table, Bar Stools and much  •Museums, Monuments  lion. You can have peace of mind  ing somebody off.  
ILOST & FOUND I 543-6161 or email at sbfhouse@ uslink.net  more. Call 273-0039 & ask for MeL Car for sale!!! 88 Chevy Corsica  ·v!P Tours of White House & Capitol •Excellent Dupont Circle Location  that we will cherish your newborn and provide a loving and secure home. Expenses paid. Please call  "What do you do when you see blue and red lights behind you?"  
Blue 101K Good Transportation  ·valuable Networking Opportunity  Donnamarie and Roger at 1-800­ Listen to the Bangles.  
Found: Car Key on Quad in front CHICAGO ROOMATES WANTED:  $1950 or B.O. Call Kim X-6414  232-6519.  
of O'Shag. Call236-9134 and I am looking for someone to live  Leave: Sun. October 2oth  Hillstock is coming soon  
leave message. with this summer in downtown  FOR SALE: Apple Stylewriter II  Return: Fri. October 25th  Peon huh? Well let me tell you  
Chicago. If you are looking for a  printer. $200 O.B.O.  something "Miss Ad Manager  Stamper Bob and Elsie's Promise  
I found a religious medallion in summer roomate or someone to  Call Kim at 273-8439  Price: $498 Includes: travel by air  Thang!" I ain't nobody's whipping  Stay Tuned  
LaFortune last Friday night. If it help share your rent give me a call.  to Washington, accommodations,  boy!  
belongs to you, call Rich at Mia 284-4390.  1421 N. Oak Hill Dr., condo, two full  airport transfers, and two special  Two sexy young women seeking  
4-3314  baths, walk to NO, finished lower  restaurant meals.  Bob Hayes- qualified sexy boys for B.P. dance.  
----------­Lost: a black sweater at Lat. St. FOR RENT  level, all appliances, garage, one-owner, $76,900, 277-8898  INFORMATION MEETING:  Where's my diet Coke? -JAW  If interested call x-1884  

Patty's party, Monday after spring THURS., APRIL 11TH Section 10C break. If found, call Jen x4828 ROOMS FOR RENT IN PRIVATE 247 MADELEVA AT 6PM. Bets and bets and more bets. Remember to treat other gaks as HOME Waterfront Condos you would treat your own gak. VERY CLOSE TO NO. 1 Bedrooms from $52,000 ADOPTION: Taco Bell has fat free cheese now.WANTED IDEAL FOR SMC-ND EVENTS. 2 Bedrooms from $80,000 I'm a very happy little girl named so can we make another bet? Happy Birthday moaner 
272-6194. New Decor Caitlin who is adopted. I would love WANTED: Good people to earn EVERYTHING included a baby sister or brother to play with. "Hi, I'm Chris and I've got a pencil Jackie Moser turns 21 today money by becoming reps for BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY Close to Notre Dame My parents are NO grads. Dad's a in my ear." EXCEL Telecommunications. Call 219-291-7153 BEAUTIFUL! lawyer and mom plays with me full Fat Chance wins Gina loses 299-1999 evenings NORTH SHORE CLUB time. We have a wonderful life, with Wannagotothegiftshop? 
NICE FURNISHED HOMES GOOD 232-2002 plenty of hugs, kisses, toys, & love Come watch 5'2" and Less beat the 
AREA NORTH OF NO FOR NEXT for a new baby. Call Meg & Shawn Flash. Ahhhha. He saved every seated, #28 team in bookstore EASTERN EUROPE JOBS -SCHOOL YEAR 2773097 86 Honda Civic 4Dr., new brakes, collect. (708)355-4970. Confidential one of us. Sunday, 1 :00 p.m. Teach basic English in Prague, clutch, battery. Very dependable. &legal. Budapest, or Krakow. No teaching NEED SUMMER HOUSING? $800 271-1289 "Shampoo is better, I go on first and Take me back to the Big Nasty certificate or European languages Fully furnished 2 bedroom apt at Taco Bell has fat free cheese now. make the hair clean. No! required. Inexpensive Room & College Park for rent. 1421 N. Oak Dr.; condo, by owner, so can we make another bet? Conditioner is better, I make the Hey Em, watch those drinks at Board + other benefits. For info. CALL X2915 for details immaculate, 2 full baths, garage, hair silky and soft ... Stop lookin' at senior bar. call: (206)971-3680 ext.K55841 finished lower level, walk to NO, ANTOSTAL IS COMING... me swan!" 
5 BR; 605 St Peter range, dishwasher, microwave, Check it out on the web: Hey, honoary section member $925/mo 232-2595 refrigerator, wid, $77,900, 277-8898 httt://www.nd.edu/-AnTostal "I'm Joey and I'm the most prettiest (Brendan) --section get I'd up night Want to get cash for your old guy in the whole world!" is this weekend. Be there--7A 
-
Sega games? Call Jonathan For Sale: A 1990 Red Two-Door For Sale!!! Plane ticket to Boston Hey peon, if you think the ad man-X 1047 Chevy Cavalier. In good condition. (5/21) or Providence (5/20) b/o ager is bad, just wait... oh just wait!! Hey, we're going in the right direc-Boggs and the sisters are on their Call Wendy at 273-5818 male or female ... call Jonathan You haven't even begun to be the lion. See, there's the bridge we way to the sweet sixteen and who x1047 whipping boy. crossed. knows what after that. 
L_ 

Wednesday, April I 0, 1996 
The Observer· SPORTS page 13 
• COLLEGE fOOTBALL 
Griese suspended indefinitely 
Associated Press 
ANN AHBOH. Mich. 

Michigan quarterbaek Brian Criese was suspnnded and ap­JHmrml in eourt Ttwsday l'or ar­raignment on a felony charge stemming from a weekend in­eidnnt in whieh he allegedly smashml a bar window. 
Ath 11~ tie department spoknsman Keith Molin said the matter is !wing treated as aleo­hol-rnlated, which mandates suspmtsion. 
"I have met with Brian and with tho tnam," coach Lloyd Carr said Ttwsday. "You have to realize that an inc:idnnt sueh as this has an nfTeet on the en­tiro program, not just on one 
individual." 

Carr said he suspended 
Griese indefinitely. 
Griese is barred from spring 
practices, which have already 
started. Carr plans additional, 
unspecified penalties, Molin 
said. 

Washtenaw County prosecu­
tors on Tuesday authorized the 
felony warrant. 
Griese became the 
Wolverines' starting quarter­. back live games into last sea­son aftnr Seott Dreisbach broke his thumb in a practice. The two arc cxpeeted to vie for the 
starter's spot this season. 
Molin said the charges would 
not determine who gets the 
starter's job. 

"This is an unfortunate inei­dent," said athletic director Joe Hobinson. lie said he agreed with Carr's disciplinary action. 
Griese, 21, was arraigned Tuesday in 15th District Court before judge Ann Mattson. She allowed him to remain free on a personal bond and scheduled a preliminary examination for April 17. 
The charge of malicious de­struction of property valued at more than $100 carries up to four years in prison and a $2,000 line on conviction. 
Griese, a junior, spent several hours in the Washtenaw County Jail after allegedly breaking the window early Sunday at the Score Keepers bar. 
Teaching and Research Abroad! 
Announcing The Fulbright Competition for I997..98. 
All freshmen, sophomores, and especially juniors interested in Graduate Study Abroad, don't miss the informational meeting with Professor A. James McAdams 
Thursday evening, April 11, 1996 at 7:00 PM in room 126 DeBartolo 
•AGreat Notre Dame Cfradition ofWinninc Fulbrichts • 
PANGBORN HALL PRESENTS.... 
A FORUM ON THE 1996 PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION: 
THE CANDIDATES 
THE ISSUES 

WHAT YOU NEED TO KNOW TO VOTE 
Wednesday, April 10, 1996 7 p.m. Basement Social Space of Pangborn Hall 
Featuring a panel discussion by Prof. Peri Arnold, Prof. Sam Best, and Prof. David Leege 
•NFL 



Jets eye Phillips with first draft pick 
By BARRY WILNER 
Associated Press 

HEMPSTEAD, N.Y. 
Lawrence Phillips, whose stoek has soared in postseason workouts, has impressed the New York Jets enough that they're considering taking him with the top pick in next week's NFL draft. 
The Jets seem set on picking either Southern California wide receiver Keyshawn Johnson, Illinois linebacker Kevin Hardy or Phillips, the Nebraska run­ning baek who was suspended for six games last season after being arrested for assaulting an ex-girlfriend. 
While coach Hich Kotite con­ceded the team has a glaring need for another receiver and has a good runner in Adrian Murrell, he and personnel di­rector Dick Haley made it clear Tuesday that Phillips would be a worthy top choice. 
"We evaluate every player very thoroughly," Kotite said. "We feel Lawrence Phillips is a very good player. We don't dis­cuss the personal sides of' peo­ple." 
Several NFL teams have ex­pressed added interest in Phillips sinee his private work­outs. They seem willing to deal with the negatives of his recent off-field history. 
The Jets sound willing to do so, too. 
"We talked about his career and being in New York and I think it was a very positive eon­versation," Kotite said. "I think he felt relaxed in the conversa­tion and so did I. 
"We know he is in therapy 
Want a Job? Go where the gold is! 
HOT JOB MARKETS USA 
Free info. (800) 722-0845 
right now and he plans to eon­tinue that." 
But that may also be a way of drawing offers from teams like the Baltimore Havens and St. Louis Hams, who want Phillips and would have to move up to get him. 
The Havens pick fourth and the Hams sixth and both have two first-round pieks. The Jets, who need a receiver, could get 
one at either spot in a draft considered deep in wide re­ceivers. 
In any case, the Jets didn't hold back the praise for Phillips. 
"It's evident to everybody that he is a big-time running baek," Haley said. "He's 225 with ex­cellent speed and explosiveness and he catches the ball, some­thing we have not see at Nebraska very often. There are no limitations from that stand­point. 
"We don't want to do an 
injustice to Lawrence Phillips because of what might or might not happen. Obviously, the in­cident was something that had to be investigated." 
Phillips was one of three play­ers who met with the Jets on 
Tuesday. lleisman Trophy win­ner Eddie George of Ohio State and defensive end Duane Clemons of California also vis­ited the team, but neither are considered candidates for the 
... I

first overall piek. They eould be chosen, however, in the event of a trade. 
Johnson, Hardy and now Phillips certainly have No. 1 potential. 
"I don't believe there is a downside to Lawrence Phillips," Haley said. "You have to clear up that picture for yourself. 
"Keyshawn is a very produc­tive college player and one of the guys we are looking at. lie's pretty much down to earth. He likes to play football. lie does talk too much, but it has not gotten him in any trouble. He knows how to handle himself in a winning situation." 
Attention: 

S~dentS~erStorage 
Your Favorite and most secure storage facility has constructed a new building just for you. No hidden fees and ask anyone on campu~ about us. 
•
Resident Manager 

•
Security Entrance System 


•Call Now for Reservations ==f:f:::.;.~~~~=fl.t== 
Located on Douglas between St. Rd. 23 & Grape Rd. 

I I I I I I I I I I I
I-
page 14 
• MAJOR lEAGUE BASEBALL 





BoSox return to form 
·,::...=:~ /lih:; ,·,:w:·A,~::.i.~::M~k' .. 

as Vaughn gpe§".··lll<l"/:UHWiWJ\! 
.A.oclated Prcu with a d~~bl around on f:()lnsEtCU1tiV~Ul~ llOSTON · t() right Tom Gordon pitched a com· Canseco.·t·ireen·weu plete game and new leadoff . two.run hitter Mike Greenwell drove in 'ito make three runs as the Boston Red 
Sox beat the Minnesota 
9·1 Tuesday in the 
makeup of Monday's snc•wea· 

out home opener. Kevin Mitchell's two--rnn~m· gle highlighted a third, and American MVP Mo Vaughn, who homers last year, hit a two-run···· snowballs 
shot in the. seventh for ·l¢J..urst,,., ~aUs. the. ~f!W Y~lJ'k ".-1..:t.J.~J).Ill'F~=~<I
this season. · · . xv.. won their home opener · 
Gordon, obtained as a free agent from Kansas City in the offseason. gave up seven hits, struck out eight and 'Yalked one. 
Boston won its second straight game after losing its first five as Gordon (1·1) re· bounded from his first start last Wednesday in which heal-lowed six runs in 3 1·3 innings at Texas. 
The Fenway Park stands were free of snow. but the game-time temperature was just 44 degrees. More snow was forecast for Tuesday night and Wednesday morning, threatening Wednesday's af· ternoon game between the teams. 
Greenwell. who batted sixth in the first five games, hit first Sunday for only the second time in his 10-year career. He went 3-for-5 and Boston got its first win, 3-1 at Kansas City. He went 3-for-5 again Tuesday. 
Gordon gave up a run in the top of the third on Matt Lawton's RBI grounder. Then the Red Sox, who hadn't scored more than four runs in any game this season, got four in the bottom of the inning off former Boston pitcher Frank Rodriguez (0-1). 
Mike Stanley walked, went to third on Tim Naehring's sin­gle and scored on Greenwell's single. John Valentin, who was 2-for-23 before Tuesday, got his second single of the game for a 2-1 lead. Mitchell then singled to center, scoring Greenwell and Valentin. 
Greenwell started the fifth 
IRISH CouNTRY BED &BREAKFAST REGISTRY 
The Preferred Registry 
Stay at the 
Moose Krause House 
or other approved homes for Graduation, Football Weekends, and Special Events 
To reserve: 
Call (219)277·7003 • Fax (219)273·2455 
zar£Hike conditions Tuesday, beaijng • tlur KansM City 1\()yals 7-lt 
The snow started before winner Andy Pettitte's (irst pitch and lasted until John Wetteland's last toss. It began as flakes, then turned to flur­ries and eventually, whipped by winds that never quit blow· ing, became a full-fledged, howling storm. 
Rarely has a major league game been played in such win­try conditions. But because the snow never stuck -it was 40 degrees at gainetime .;.,.... the action was allowed to continue without a stop. In fact, plate umpire Derryl Cousins even wore short sleeves, almost in defiance of the bad weather. 
Baseball has been plagued by snow, rain and cold this year. resulting in eight early postponements. But this ga.me clearly was the poster scene for critics who complain the season starts too early. 
An announced crowd of 56,329 -most of them were . present at the start -and first-ball thrower Joe DiMaggio saw the Yankees win their fifth straight home open­er. The fans got another reward besides the victory when they were told they would receive free tickets to another game. 
Somehow, the snow did not cause many problems for play­ers. Except for occasional slips on the mound and slides around the bases, there weren't a lot of mishaps. There were four errors, per­haps a surprisingly low total considering the conditions. 

Houses for Rent 96-97 
•Furnished 
•Security Systems •Washers/Dryers •4-8 Bedrooms 
Call Pat McKelvey at 258-9996 

Are You Up To The Challenge? 






MBA 5K Challenge 
~  To Benefit  ·~  
tr THEC9~-ti~£ECT,,,  r./1  
t  COORDINATING ORGANIZATION  t  

Saturday, April13th,1996 11:00am at Stepan Center 
<Race Day Registration begins at 9:30 a.rn.) 
T-Shirts, Food &Drinks, Post Race Prizes $5.00 pre-registration, $7.00 day of race 
Questions-Call273 -2694 SPONSOREDBYNOR WESTBANK 
The ObseJ;Ver • SPORTS Wednesday, April 10, 1996 
• MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBAll 
Unbeaten Rangers nip Pale Hose 
Associated Press 
CHICAGO 

The Texas Rangers remained baseball's only unbeaten team beating the Chicago White Sox 3-2 on Tuesday to go 7-0 -the best start in club history. 
Kevin Gross pitched six strong innings and Kevin Elster doubled in the go-ahead run in the seventh to spoil Chicago's home opener before a crowd of just 34,750 on a sunny but chilly day at Comiskey Park. 
The 1987 Milwaukee Brewers were the last American League team to start 7-0 when they set a league record by winning their first 13 games. The Atlanta Braves in 1994 were the last major league team to start 7-0. 
Gross (2-0) allowed six hits and two runs. He's won his first two starts for the first time since 1983 when he made his major league debut with the Phillies. The victory also gave the Rangers the team's first seven-game winning streak since May 21-29, 1992. 
Chicago's Kevin Tapani, the scheduled starter. was a late scratch because of a groin in­jury and was replaced by Kirk McCaskill, who started just one game last season. 
It was the end of a six-year stretch of durability for Tapani, who hadn't missed a start be­cause of injury since August, 1990, a span of 161 outings. He suffered the injury after pitch­ing three innings in Seattle six days ago. 
With the score tied 2-2 in the s~venth, Rusty Greer singled and, one out later, scored the go-ahead run when Elster lined a double to wall in left center off Larry Thomas (0-1). 
McCaskill hit Dean Palmer to open the fifth, Greer doubled and after Palmer was almost picked off third, Mark McLemore delivered a two-run '>ingle to right. That finished 
CONNECTING
YOU 

McCaskill. 
But the Sox tied it in their half when Tony Phillips and Darren Lewis singled and Frank Thomas poked an oppo­site-field, two-run double. 
Chicago had second and third in the seventh but Gil Heredia got Danny Tartabull on a roller to end the inning. Mike Henneman pitched the ninth for his second save. 
Tigers 10 Mariners 9 
DETROIT 

Cecil Fielder hit a grand slam, one of 10 extra-base hits by Detroit, and the Tigers held on for a 10-9 victory over the Seattle Mariners in their home opener Tuesday. 
Alan Trammell, starting his 20th season with the Tigers, and Travis Fryman also home­red for Detroit. Ricky Jordan and Alex Rodriguez homered for Seattle, which also hit six doubles and two triples. 
Greg Keagle (2-0) earned the victory with 3 2-3 innings of five-hit relief. Brian Williams pitched the ninth for the save. 
Paul Menhart (0-1), who walked the only three batters he faced, took the loss. 
The Tigers scored six runs in the fourth on one hit, Fielder's grand slam off reliever Bob Wells for a 10-7 lead. Seattle pitchers walked ·six and hit a batter in the inning. 
It was the ninth grand slam for Fielder and his first since May 22, 1995, which also came off Wells. 
The Mariners took a 3-0 lead off Detroit starter Scott Aldred in the first inning. Luis Sojo doubled and scored on Ken Griffey's triple. Edgar Martinez walked, then Jay Buhner dou­bled home Griffey and Martinez, who held up momen­tarily at third before scoring on an error by left fielder Melvin Nieves. 

In the bottom of the inning, Seattle starter Bob Wolcott walked the first two Detroit batters. Fryman then hit a 2-1 pitch off the facing of the sec­ond deck in left for his third homer, pulling the Tigers into a 3-3 tie. 
Trammell hit solo a homer in the second. 
The Mariners took a 7-5 lead in the fourth on two-run homers by Jordan and Rodriguez. Russ Davis singled home Alex Diaz, who had dou­bled, in the Seattle seventh. 
Sojo doubled home Rodriguez in the eighth. 
Aldred and Wolcott each last­ed 3 1-3 innings. Aldred gave up seven runs on five hits and three walks, while Wolcott yielded six runs on three hits and four walks. 
Blue Jays 5 Angels 0 
TORONTO 

Pat Hentgen pitched a five-hit shutout and Charlie O'Brien hit a two-run home run and drove in three runs, powering the Toronto Blue Jays to a 5-0 vic­tory over the California Angels on Tuesday. 
Hentgen, (2-0) struck out six and walked three en route to his fourth career shutout. 
O'Brien hit his first home run of the season, taking loser Mark Langston (0-1) over the left field fence to score Robert Perez for a 2-0 Toronto lead in the second. 
Perez, who scored two runs, reached on a fielder's choice following Juan Samuel's one­out single and then scored on O'Brien's homer. 
After Samuel singled again, this time with two out in the fourth, Perez delivered a run­scoring double to left. O'Brien's single to left scored Perez and Alex Gonzalez doubled home O'Brien for a 5-0 Blue Jays lead. 

• 
Redesigned and Updated 

• 
New Features include instructor profiles and professor "Hall of Fame" 

• 
An invaluable resource in selecting Fall '96 courses 


Pick up The Guide '96 in your dorm or at the Student Government Office on the second floor of Lafortune 

Wednesday, April 10, 1996 The Observer • SPORTS page 15 
• NFL • MASTERS 
Irvin speaks out about incident Love hopes to drop 
A•sodatcd Press have it. I definitely don't have ''I'm sorry. I'm sorry to all it," Irvin said. the people that have backed DALLAS me and love me, the people 
underachiever label 


Spnaking at length for the Irvin could not speak specifi­who know my character. I first time since being indicted cally about his case because of apologize to them whole­on drug eharges, Dallas a gag order, but he did apolo­heartedly."Cowboys rnceiver Michael gize for the March 4 incident Irvin said he's more upset Irvin told ESPN on Tuesday he in which police say he was in a about hurting the people who won't be suspended from the motel room with two topless are close to him than he is NFI. because he doesn't have a dancers, cocaine and mari­concerned with having tar­drug problem. juana. nished his image. The bad 
"I think suspension is for "I regret being in that room. publicity reportedly could cost somebody with a substance I regret being in that situa­him around $1 million in abuse problem -and I don't tion," Irvin said. endorsements. 

If you need to do some catching up or want to get a jump on fall, summer classes at Holy Cross College may be just the ticket. Choose one or both sessions, each offering a wide variety of quality general education courses. And pay our summer tuition rate of just $I 50 per credit hour. 
Take advantage of exceptionally small classes, a dedicated and caring faculty, and our convenient location just to the west of the University of Notre Dame campus. Credit earned is transferable. 
* HOLY 
You'll enjoy summer activities even more, knowing that you're also 
CROSS

getting ahead in your studies. Write or call Holy Cross College today. Applications for Summer Sessions I and II, as well as for the COLLEGE 1996 Fall Semester, are now being accepted. 
Office of Admissions 
P.O. Box 308 • Notre Dame, IN 46556 
Session I-May 20 to june 2 7 (219)239-8400, ext. 22 • Fax (219)233-7427 Session II -July I to August 9 
e-mail: hccadmis@gnn.com 
Associated Press 
AUGUSTA, Ga. 

He's made $6 million and has a picture perfect swing. So why is Davis Love III still considered an underachiever? 
Because he has inherited the dubious label of "the best golfer never to win a major." 
Nick Price, Fred Couples, Tom Kite, and Corey Pavin all had it. They all had the terrible tag of major collapsers at one time in their careers. 
Now, the burning brand of talent squandered is Love's burden to bear. Last year's Masters gave him hope that something will be done about it was my first real run at a ma­jor. I shot the low round of the day playing with Greg Norman then walked off 18 with a chance to win. I liked the feel­ing. I liked the taste. I want to do it again." 
Love, who also tied for fourth in the 1995 U.S. Open, is one of the longest hitters on tour. He is one of the best iron players and has a solid short game ex­cept for occasional lapses on short putts. The death of Davis Love II, his father and teacher, in a plane crash was a setback but Love has begun to emerge as a patient player, one who can think his way around the course. 
I I 
I I I I
very soon. 
He shot four straight sub-par rounds including a final round 6-under-par 66 only to lose to Ben Crenshaw by a stroke. Love didn't lose the Masters. Crenshaw won it. 
"It's a different feeling when you get down to the end of a major," Love said. "Sometimes your desire to win makes you too excited, too nervous and you get in your own way. You try to tell yourself it's just an­other tournament but it's not. Your emotions get away from you. It's something you have to conquer." 
The North Carolinian's best year was 1992 when he won three times, including the Player's Championship. 
"I work hard on my game now because I know that's what it will take to win a ma­jor,'' Love said. "Getting close at the Masters has made me want to work harder." 
Love hears the remarks about his overall poor record in ma­jors. 
''I've played 10 years and if I go another 10 years and don't win a major then I'll feel like I left something out there," Love said. "But I have a lot more confidence now than I've had before. I know I can do it." 
Augusta National Golf Club is a perfect setup for Love. He can reach the par-5s with iron sec­ond shots. He hits the ball high which is a necessity because of the normally hard and fast 
The 31-year-old Love has  greens. He can draw the ball  _j  
won 11 tournaments but until  which also is an advantage be­ l  
the 1995 Masters had been a  cause the course plays easiest  
big bust in the majors. He went  for a player with a hook.  
all of 1994 without making the  "I feel comfortable here,"  
cut in a major. In his first 27  Love said. "This is my seventh  
majors, Love missed 10 cuts  Masters.  I  know  my  way  
and never finished better than  around. It's time to win."  
11th in the 1991 U.S. Open.  Or,  as his critics would say,  
In 1995, he had to win the  about time.  
week before the Masters at  

New Orleans just to qualify for the tournament. 
"Last year showed me what I can do, how I can handle the pressure down the stretch," Love said. "It meant a lot to me to hang in there with Ben. It 
PLEASE RECYCLE THE OBSERVER 
"Adventure, Danger, Romance: Sr. Madeleva on Catholic Higher Education" 
Sandra Yocum Mize, University of Dayton author of forthcoming book: "A Strange Impulse": Educating Women in the Science of Theology Saint Mary's College, South Bend, Indiana (194 3 -1969) 
Saint Mary's College Respondent Gail Mandell, Department of Humanistic Studies, author of forthcoming book on Sr. Madeleva 
Thursday, Aprilll, Stapleton Lounge, 4:30-6:00 
Please join us for a presentation, discussion, and refreshments! 
'•

Sponsored by the Saint Mary's Centerfor Academic Innovation 
. ' 
' 

page 16 The Observer· SPORTS Wednesday, AprillO, 1996 
•GOLF 







Belles enjoy succesful opener 


With exceptional sc()te~ of 296 and 295 in the second and third rounds, the Notre Dame "'::. 
men's golf team finshed sixth,,, in the Marshall Invitational · last Saturday. A disappointin~ 313ln the opening round kept.· the Irish from moving any ,ftJr-.. ,...; ther. up in the eighteen-team· ··· · field, and as a result their 54• 
hole total of 904 couldn't touch Ohio State'$ Will.ning
868. ·· · 
Coach George Thomas was ~ able to pinpoint the cause of J his team's difficulties. "In the rtrst round, we had a horren­dous amount of putting. The kids just weren't used to the 
shape and contour of those kinds of greens. When you get in the Alleghenies, you get in ridge country where the greens get really small and slow," he explained. 
None of the Notre Dame's top five linksters had ever seen the course -Guyan Golf and Country Club • before their Thursday arrival in Huntington West Virginia. 
"It took us some time to adjust to their greens. Tbey were faster and softer, but in the second two rounds, we ob­viously p)ayed a lot better. Part of the adjustment was because people got used to the greens. but part of it was because we were pretty disap­pointed with the first round," co-captain Joel Hepler elabo­rated. 
Hepler's fluctuations through the meet mirrored his team's: after an 80 in the opening round. he closed out the tourney with consecutive Donohoe, a co,.eaptaln and number-two on the tea1Jl ......... 

hind Hepler, ·finished · · · 
weekeml with. a 226•. gqbd to 
tie him f()r 24th in the tourna­

ment. t·•;, 
His 7 4 and 72 in the final two rounds seem. t(). signal a recovery from~.!' early-~.=;ason struggles. •··•wv ;i 
'Tve been off all spring. It's not any one thing I can put my finger on.. but it looks like the extra practice has paid off," Donohoe offered. 
"The first round, nothing really clicked for anyone. It was especially disappointing bec~use it kept us from a great finish, but in a field that tough, sixth is pretty good," he commented. 
Coming in third for the Irish, Bryan Weeks shot a 229 high­lighted by a 73 in the third round. Bill Moore and Kit Burton tied with 230s to round out the scoring. 
Despite their pleasure with· a sixth place finish, the team collectively cites South Bend weather as a major factor holding the team back. 

While they do not recognize snow and drizzle as agreeable golfing weather, the team's tried to hit Blackthorn, their practice course, as often as possible. 
By DESIREE LEAK 
Sports W ricer 
Blackstock Stadium, home of the DePauw Tigers, now has a new stadium record. 
Freshman Stacy Davis blew past her competition in the 200M dash with a time of 
25.98. Not only did Davis col­lect first place honors, her name is now part of the record books. Davis owns the quickest 
time  ever  recorded  in  the  
women's  200M  dash  at  
Blackstock Stadium.  

"I was glad to get the stadium record, but I hope to improve my time next week," Davis said. 
She also placed first in the 100M dash. 
Despite high winds, snow flur­ries, and heavy competition, the Belles scored 63 points at DePauw, more than doubling they points scored at the meet last year. 
"The track conditions were not the greatest, but the team rose to the challenge and the number of personal records and season bests were very impres­sive," Head Coach Larry Szczechowski said. 
Freshman Liz Johnson scored 

Baseball 
continued from page 20 
heat to end the inning. 
From the very first pitch of the Irish seventh, which Scott Sollmann ripped up the middle for a single, the game was over. Late-inning rallies had become routine for Notre Dame. With Sollmann on sec­ond and Mike Amrhein on first. Restovich clobbered a 2-2 pitch for a double, driving in Soil­mann. And when the Huskies intentionally walked Wagner to load the bases, the experienced Lisanti won the game with a sacrifice fly. 
Free 





Saturday, April 13 
8:30 a.m. to 12:30 p.m. I 18 Nieuwland 

Sign up in I 0 I O'Shaughnessy 
sponsored by Prelaw Society 
personal records in both the shot and the discus. 
"I was pleased that I per­formed better this week, but I hope to· continue improving my distances next week," Johnson said. 
Along with Johnson, senior Julie Govorko had season bests in the shot, discus and javelin, while junior Desiree Leak ac· complished personal records in both long jump and triple jump. Leak surpassed last years per­sonal best in the triple jump by three feet with a distance of 29'8". 
In her first outdoor meet of the season, junior Courtenay Powers also put in a personal best in the 200M dash. Powers, along with Davis, freshman Sarah Gallagher and sopho­more Kristin Donahue placed fourth in an exciting 4x1OOM relay. 
Teammates Holly Platt and Gallagher competed in the 100M hurdles. Platt edged out a competitor at the line to finish third, while Gallagher ran her personal best time to finish fifth. Platt's personal record time of 1:13.64 in the 400M hurdles won her second place honors. 
In the distance races, senior Michelle Wenner competed in the 1500M, 3000M, and the 4x400M relay. Despite never competing in all three events at one meet, Wenner -placed third in the 1500M, fifth in the 3000M, recording personal bests in both races. 
Wenner along with sopho· more Alisha Barbee, j.unior Paula Kivinen, and freshman Janice Weiers placed fourth in the 4x400M relay. 
"The whole team performed well. I think this week's strong performance against tough competition is a good predictor of things to come," said Wenner. 
Assistant Coach Dustin Gill agreed. 
"With Little State next week, we have an opportunity to have one of the best team perfor­mances of the season," Gill said. 
Next Saturday the team heads to Indiana Wesleyan to compete in the annual Little State track meet. The Belles expect stiff competition at Little State and look forward to continuing their excellent performances at their biggest meet of the season. 

I • 


WeJnesday, April I 0, 1996 The Observer • SPORTS 



Tennis 
continued from page 20 
the win. 
The Wildcat's top duo of Alex Witt and Rafael Rizo-Patron edged seniors Mike Sprouse and Jason Pun 8-6. The terrif­ic and young doubles combina­tion sophomore Jakup Pietrowski and freshman Brian Patterson were outlasted by the same score as they fell to Wyeth Goodenough and Hy Tarpley. Northwestern's No. 3 doubles team made it a clean sweep as they handled junior Ryan Simme and senior J. J. O'Brien 8-2. 
Already rlown the doubles point the Irish seemed to be in a hole and in danger of losing their first regional match. 
The team's experience proved evident as the four points to clinch the win were won by upperclassmen. In the top slot Sprouse picked up another win as he beat Witt 6­3, 6-4. 
At Nos. 5 and 6 singles O'Brien and senior Brian Harris came up big. They both earned critical points as each of them won in straight sets. 
The younger players did not do quite as well. At No. 4 Hyan Tarpley beat Patterson in straight sets, 6-4, 6-3. Pietrowski lost a heartbreaker as Marco Silva out-battled him at No. 2 in a tough three set match, 3-6, 6-2,7-6, (8-6). 
With things tied up at three points a piece, Hyan Simme and Wyeth Goodenough were caught up in about as close a match as is possible. 
Goodenough got on top win­ning the first 6-4. But then Simme came back to win the second with another 6-4 score. Simme then won in dramatic fashion as the third and deci­sive set came down to a tie breaker in which Simme won 7-5. 
So, the Irish survived a scare on Saturday and had Easter off before they were to square off against Ball State on Monday. 
The netters got off to a better start which lead to a 5-2 win against the Cardinals as Pietrowski/Patterson and Simme/O'Brien both picked up 
page 17 

wins by the same score of 8-5 in the Nos. 1 and 3 doubles po­sitions respectively. 
Captain Mike Sprouse was out of the lineup which teamed sophomore Danny Hothschild and Pun together in the second doubles match which they were edged by .Jim Bove and Patrick Vizzone, 8-6. 
BSU's top player beat Pietrowski in the top position with the help of a first set tie breaker, 7-6,6-3. Brian Harris saw action again on Monday. However, this time he was bet­tered in three sets by Juan Fernadez, 3-6,6-4, 6-2. 
Simme continued his fine play as he picked up his second win of the weekend over Bove in convincing style, 6-1, 6-2 at No. 2 singles. Patterson got back on the winning track against the Cardinals Vizzone with a 6-3, 7-5 victory. 
O'Brien and Pun also earned points for the Irish. O'Brien went 2-0 on the weekend with a 6-3, 6-0 win over J.D. Hall in the fourth slot. Pun had to comeback and win in three as he ousted Pieter Opperman 4­6, 6-0, 6-3. 
.. j 
I I 
ROSS Approximately 3,000 Ross Alumni 
are Currently in Residencies or 
Private Practice In The U.S.A.
UNIVERSITY 

SCHOOL OF MEDICINE 
• 
Graduates licensed & practicing In 1111 U.S. • Ctlnlcalll'ltlfallons with hospitals In the U.S. 

• 
High pass rate on U.S. Med u-sing Exam • FuRy equipped, stat&-al·the-art baalc sclencelacllltles 


• Medical School Curriculum modeled after that In U.S. schoola 
SCHOOL OF VETIRINARY MEDICINE 
• Fourth year clinical training .C .aflllllted U.S. veterinary schools 
• Low student·lacutty ratio • U.S. veler-echool curriculum, DVM/Ph.D faculty 
[Financial Aid Avallable~~r Those W~o ~IJ!T!fJ 
Accepting Applications For Fall96 & Winter/Spring 97 terms. For further Information, Call or Wrlte: 

ROSS UNIVERSITY 
460 W 34th Street, New York, NY 10001 Phone (212) 279-5500 
• TRACK AND fiElD 
Williams leads Irish in opener 
BY BRIAN REINTHALER able to run in the 5000. Either Sports Writer one of those guys could have gotten us the win." 
If you want to win you have Quite a few athletes per­to stay healthy. But no one formed well on the men's side, needs to remind Irish track and but according to Piane, no one field coach Joe Piane of this matched the effort of sopho­fact. more Errol Williams. 
Both the men's and women's When asked to name the track squads fell to Western men's standout, Plane didn't Michigan on Staturday in duel even take a breath before meet competition. The men reponding, "Errol Williams was dropped their contest by just terrific in the highs (110-meter three points, 102-99, while the hurdles) and the 400 hurdles, women were beaten 91-79. and he anchored our mile The meet was the home-opener relay." for the Irish. After winning the 110-meter 
"We didn"t have (Mike) event in a time of 14.30 sec­Fleisch, who was a national onds and taking second in the qualifier in the shot," said 400 in 53.80, the sophomore Piane, "and Joe Dunlop wasn't valliantly anchored the mile relay, which came within a few hundredths of a second of clinching the meet for the Irish. 

For the women's squad, junior Alison Howard proved to be a strong leader. Howard
CAMPUS VIEW contibuted points in both the 400 meters and the long jump, taking first and second in those events respectively. 
She jumped a distance of 5.37 meters, just .02 meters shy of first place finisher Kyra Locke






APARTMENTS 
of Western Michigan. In the 400 she blew away the compe­tition with a blistering time of 56.06. 
"Alison has really been run­ning consistently," praised Pian e. 
Other first place finishers for the women were Bridget Vanwieringham in the javelin 
(53.7 4 meters), Kelle Saxen in the high jump (5'5"), Amy Seigel in the 1500 (4:40.75), Erica Peterson in the 400 hur­dles (1 :00.74), and Kristen Dudas in the 3000 (10:18.90). 
Men's winners included Greg Moretti in the hammer throw 
(53.74 meters), Dave Gerrity in the pole vault (16'0"), Lamarr Justice in the triple jump (15.13 meters), Derek Seiling in the 3000-meter steeplechase 
(9:18.88) and the 1500 (3:58.51), Jeff Hojnacki in the 800 (1:53.62), and Matt Althoff in the 5000 meters (14:53.28). 
The next meet for the Irish will be the upcoming Miami Invitational at the Miami of Ohio. 
When asked for his thoughts on the past weekend's meet, Piane explained, "You always feel bad if you lose, but if you have good performonr.es, you can't be too disappointed. it bodes well for the future." 
We are currently accepting applications 
Follow the Fighting Irish to 

for next year. 




Ireland 
Visit the Cork Jazz Festival 
FuRNISHED APARTMENTS SWIMMING POOL & JACUZZI TENNIS, VOLLEYBALL, & BASKETBALL COURTS 24 HOUR LAUNDRY & SHUTTLE BUS PROFESSIONAL MANAGEMENT 
•

*Limited Apartments available for your selection* For more information call272... 1441 

-------~-~------------~~ ~-----------­
r 
r 
~ ­

page 18 
• SPORTS BRIEFS 
DROP-IN VOLLEYBALL • RecSports Will be offering Drop-In Volleyball on Tuesdays April 16. 23. and 30, from 8-11 p.m. in the Joyce Center. No established teams or advanced sign-ups necessary. 
BLUE/GOLD FOOTBALL GAME STUDENT TICKETS ­There will be two Blue/Gold games at Krause Stadium this year -at 1:30 p.m. on April 20 and 27. Students will be admitted free to the April 20 Blue/Gold game, but mu$t pick up a ticket in advance between 10 a.m. and 5 p.m., April 9-11, at the Joyce Center's Gate 10 ticket winbdow. One (1) ticket will be issued per ID with a limit of two (2) IDs per student. A student may also purchase a ticket for $8 the day of the game. For the April 27 Blue/Gold game, students will be required to pay $6 in ad· vance, $8 day of game, with the advance sale beginning 8:30a.m. onApril15. 
MBA 5K CHALLENGE -The run will take place on Saturday, April 13 at 11 a.m. and starts at Stepan Center. Registration begins at 9:30 
a.m. and the cost is $7. For information, call Emory,Jodd 
at 273-2694. ···· WOMEN'S SOCCER BAN· QUET -A limited number of tickets remain for the wom­en's soccer National Championship banquet. Tickets cost $22 and are available by contacting Tony Yelovich at 1-4893. Tht.l ban­quet will take place Sunday, April 14 at 5:00 p.m.in the JACC Monogram Room. 


Lacrosse 
continued from page 20 
ing staff, this Keenan goal gave the team the momentum it needed going into the over.­time period. 
"We had the emotional advantage, no doubt about that," explained Shea. "The Harvard coaches were devas­tated because they thought they had the game locked up (before Keenan's goal)." 
This is when Dusseau worked his game-winning magic. With the Irish players following their set play called by the coaches, Burke Hayes took the first shot. It missed, and the Irish rebounded, try­ing yet another shot. This shot missed as well. Dusseau grabbed the loose ball, and with little hesitation, put it in the net. Game over. 
Game 2 of the Easter trip pit­ted the Irish against the Big Green of Dartmouth on Monday. Because they felt it necessary to win the first game of the trip to maintain the team's high morale, and used the majority of the week to get ready for Harvard, the Irish coaches had only one day to prepare for this game. For this reason, the Dartmouth style of play worried the Notre Dame coaches. 
"(The Big Green) are very patient and mechanical," said Shea. "They run a lot of set plays that can hurt you with little preparation." 
Just as they had done in the Saturday game, the Irish fell behind and had to regain the 
The Observer • SPORTS 
lead in exciting fashion toward the end of the game. After trailing 8-5 at the half, they entered the final period behind 11-9. At this point. Notre Dame's offense erupted. In a span of 3:24, four different Irish players scored one goal apiece. This gave the Irish a 13-12 lead. 
With 6:41 left, the Big Green tied the game at 13. 
Once again, Dusseau stepped up big time. With only 1:22 remaining, he drove to the right side of the goal. After beating his defender, he launched a shot high into the goal, scoring his third goal of the game and giving the Irish a 14-13 lead they would never relinquish. 
"The guys showed a lot of poise in the fourth," com­mented Shea. "(Dusseau) has a knack for finding the net in­side. He knows how to take hits, and the guys' are confi­dent throwing it inside to him." 
As a result of these weekend victories, the Irish have once again earned a higher ranking in the USILA national coaches' poll. The Irish are now the No. 7 ranked team in the nation and are glad to know that the rest of the country is finally taking note of their phe­nomenal performances. 
Dine-In/Carryout 52850 U.S. 31 Business 277-2121 

FRIDAY, APRIL 19 at 8 P.M. 
Tickets: $4 (Students), $10 (Adults) on sale at the Saint Mary's College box office, O'laughlin Auditorium, 9-5, Mon.-Fri. Visa, Discover, MasterCard: 219/284-4626 



Summer weather's on the way ... really! 
I ' 
This Thursday • 2:00 p.m. 
"Specializing in Authentic Notre Dame Sportswear." 

Ivy Field 


Dine-In/Carryout  Delivery/Carryout  
18157 State Rd. 23  6305 University Commons  
273-1202  271-1166  


Wednesday, April 10, 1996 The Observer • TODAY page 19 
FOUR FOOD GROUPS OF THE APOCALYPSE DAVE KELLETT YOUR HOROSCOPE JEANE DIXON 
r(;;~~:-=~--;:;=:::;=::::;==:;1 [Nil~ l>o J: . \Hf\'1 's jusT 
HAPI>Y BIRTHDAY! IN THE 'SME.C\..lfZOll~cE. . ."? \ 1'1\ PE 1'1 D ol'IC.. 
~'"' \2~110 ~ l o {,.o 

NEXT YEAR OF YOUR LIFE:
(.112. VJII-I'<\ .."> 
) 'SP.Tt~E 

You will make steady progress on a J "'BP-o1t1EI1 . 
variety of fronts. Others sense that / 
you are in earnest and hasten to help out. There is new emphasis on pre­serving what you already have in the areas of finance, romance and friendship. Sharing a special secret with a favorite companion leads to deeper rapport. A business project that you discarded could be resur­rected with surprising results. Choose new associates with great care. 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: sponscaster John Mad­den, bridge expert Omar Sharif, author David Halberstam. actor Steven Seagal.
JOE MARTIN

MISTER BOFFO ARIES (March 21-April 19): New proposals merit careful investi­gation. Some inside information comes your way later today. easing 

,. 
0 

TI-\E CO~PA.N'< US£0 10u 
..0 ... 

OFFER COUNSELING TN 
® 

11-\ESE CASES. BUT WE
"' 
".. 

FOUND IT WA':J MORt.
0.. 
1­1­0 

ECONOMICAL TO APPL'< 
" 
"' 

11-\E DE.f>..\1-\ PENf>..LT'(. 
·;; E 
,;, 
J 
II') 
CROSSWORD 

ACROSS 32 Ordinary writing 8& Au fait 33 Part of P.R. 67 Not-so­
1 Shakespearean impressive34 Gardner of prince 

grade4 Harridans 
"Mogambo" 

68 Via Sacra attire 37 French 
8 Chopped 

feminist's goal 69Piggies 13 Modern 70 Cincinnati has 
41 Baseballer 

musician Brian three
Williams 14 lroquoian 
42 Irritate 
language 

44 Start of a DOWN 15 At whom famous boast Peeping Tom 1 Bray 
46 Imperturbablepeeped 2 Goat breed 
53 Like most 

16 Freudian topic record albums 3 Pirate at work 
17 Actress 54 Southeastern 4 Next in line Swenson 
Kansas town 5 Cartoonist Peter 18 Let up 55 Snub 6 Musicians' 19 Food meant for so Orchid organ engagements Lent 63 Keeps an 7 Half--over 22 Geometry account of (drunk) 
subject 64 Elvis's "-­a Rub elbows 23 Torments Lost You" (with) 27 Sub's activity 65 Clios and Obies 9 "The Gathering" 
star 10 Sparkling gift? 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE ff Impending time 12 "Dear old" one t5 Test 20Some skit 
humor -':-iE-iE-iB 21 "A Christmas Carol" cry 24 "What's--for ~~~.::;-:::-~.::; me?" 
25 --homo 2& Like workhorses 
-.r.::+:::-f"!'" .-.r,;.,+:::-+.,;~ 28 High dudgeon 28 Eggy drink 30 Youth grp. 
-:-+.::+:"+:-t.::-t::-1 founded in 1 91 2 4~=+:::+.:::-+::;..l 31 Having a purpose 
34 Bridges of electricity 35Bass-­36 Sunburn soother 38 Hosp. section 39Tic--­(candy) 40 Zoo bird 43 Sophocles tragedy 
45 Jannings of "The Blue Angel" 

aboard your success wagon. Allow this only if they will he an a~set. 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Your day starts on a cheery note and will end rather excitingly. Team elTon helps speed tedious project~. Taking frequent break> will ~eep your energy level high. 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Your diplomatic manner is a hig asset now. Sidestep an argument with someone who acts antagonistic. Seeking out allies who ~hare your values will provide you With a ready-made suppon system. 
SCORI>JO (Oct. 23-Nov. 211: A frank discussion with an associate could lead to new understanding. Dividing work evenly will let you accomplish more. Your anraction to a newcomer is based on a true meet­ing of minds. 
SA(;JTTARIUS (Nov. 22·Dec. 21 ): Do not let your frustration over a loved one's ac11ons pull you down. Something you plan to do today could cause complication~. You'd bener have a backup plan in mind' 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): You should he able to see the light at the end of the tunnel now. Be patient. Expert advice will help you solve a financtal problem. Be 
•
willing to trade tem1X1rary gains for pennanent benefits. 
AQliARHJS (Jan. 20-Feh. 181: Your mate or favorite companion may try to meddle m your business affairs. Stand up for your rights. Only you can make decisions affect­ing your career. A child is telling you the truth. 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Trouble could he brewtng behind the scenes at work. Keeping your concerns to yourself would be a mistake. Get in touch with someone whose talents compliment your own. A budget revision may be nec­essary. 

SCOTT ADAMS 

your worrie~. Keep dental and med­ical appointments. 
TA l!Rl!S (April 20-May 20): Favorable travel or financial devel­opmems are featured for you and your mate. Romantic partners who must be apart should write or phone often. A tender gesture or encourag­ing note can mean a great d~al. 
GEMINI (Mav 21-June 20): Those around yo-u may be in a "show me" mood. If you do not respond in a down-to-earth manner, you can expect some grumbling. Review all options before finalizing an importam decision. 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): You are in one of your reclusive moods. Others may not appreciate your need for solitude. Seek quiet surroundings when tackling a com­plex task. 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Some self-promotion is essential now. Pur­sue a goal that has long been close to your hean. Others want to climb 

•MENU Notre Dame North Italian Beef Sandwich Baked Ziti Stir-Fry Chicken  South Ch-icken Strips Crostala Colcealla Romana Parslied Potatoes  
Saint Mary's  
Chicken Fried Steak  

Artichoke, Olive, Rice Casserole Whole Baby Carrots 


Wanted: Reporters, photographers and editors. Join The Observer staff. 
47 Steers clear of 48 They may be 
hard or soft 49 Put in 50 Dress part 51 Cricket squad 52 Street shows 56 Box spring 
support 57 Bindlestiff 58 Make goo-goo 
eyes at 59 Exploits 60 Bit of 
encouragement 6t --Jima 62 Slump 

Get answers to any three clues by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420­5656 (75¢ each minute). 
-
r 
I 

I ~ .. -SPORTS 
page 20 Wednesday, April 10, 1996 
By T. RYAN KENNEDY two-inning span to hand the woes. Two days later, against 
Sporrs Writer Panthers a grim 8-6 defeat. a scrappy 10-12 Connecticut However, Notre Dame's late­squad, Notre Dame again 
An Easter weekend tradition­inning heroics stalled in the struggled early. Irish pitching ally marked by relaxation and second game on Saturday, as allowed a base hit on the first good weather simply meant UConn prevailed 10-9. pitch of both games. Still business as usual for Notre "We've faced some terrible worse, the Irish found them­Dame baseball, winners of weather conditions," says selves facing consecutive 6-2 three of four games at The Eck Coach Paul Mainieri. "But the deficits after three innings. over the break. In the face of players hang in there well de­But in the first game, the Irish bizarre weather conditions spite the lousy conditions. rallied to cut the score to 6-5 that included everything from Thank goodness our kids have on the quick woodwork of Jeff rain, snow, swirling winds to a lot of character." Wagner and Bob Lisanti. 
... 20 degree In a crucial Big East The comeback, however, was tempera­
matchup against St. John's on marred in the sixth inning tures, the 
Thursday, the Irish struck when Richards went down I r i s h 
early with a first-inning leadoff with a sprained right knee. escaped St. 
blast by Rowan Richards, his With two out, on a fly to shal­John's and 
fifth dinger of the year. low right field, Brooks collided Wisconsin­
Meanwhile, Irish ace Darin into Richards. Richards made Milwaukee 
Schmalz was keeping it close the dazzling grab but 
and s pI it a L-__,....,-:l.
_ ___L__ _J 
down the stretch, holding St. remained on the ground hold­doublehead­John's to three runs on six ing his knee. He is out indefi­er with hits, with the Irish offensive nitely. Connecticut on Saturday. arsenal waiting in the wings. The seventh and final inning 
The Irish (5-2, 24-8) have Then, it finally came. With rolled around with the Huskies now won 16 of 18 games, but Randall Brooks and Richards having more than ample op­few have come without a leading the charge, the Irish portunity to bury the Irish. struggle. A theme seems to be did a little thundering of their The Huskies had the bases developing, as the Irish have own on the Red Storm, scoring loaded with two outs against staged a late-inning rally to four runs in the bottom of the freshman Alex Shilliday, but win in four of their last five fifth to ice the game. Schmalz the entire UConn coaching victories. went the distance, wiping out staff swarmed about the field 
On Thursday, Notre Dame the Redstorm abruptly with a in utter disarray over what scored four runs in the fifth in­1-2-3 inning to close the game. strategy to use. For the second ning of a seven-inning ball­The second end of the dou­time in the inning, they used a game to defeat St. John's 7 -3; bleheader was postponed due pinch hitter and for the second on Saturday, Notre Dame capi­to below-freezing temperatues straight time, it backfired. talized with two runs in the fi­and a wind-whipped blend of Shilliday got ahead of his man nal inning to squeak by Con­snow and rain. and then fanned him with the necticut 7-6;. and on Monday, But the inclement weather the Irish scored 6 runs in a did not erase Notre Dame's 
see BASEBALL I page 16 


Notre Dame tops Northwestern 
By JOE CAVATO Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame men's ten­By TIM MCCONN good to have the crowd behind nis team record has not faired Sports Writer us again." so well on the national level, 
That crowd will most likely but their record in their region It's over, but do they really greet freshman Chris Dusseau is a different story. · 
want it to be? with nothing short of a roar. The Irish is currently ranked With its exciting 7-6 and 14-He improved his team-leading twenty sixth in the nation, but 13 victories over Harvard and goal total by scoring five goals they are considered the top 
Dartmouth, respectively, this this weekend, two of which team in the midwestern weekend. 
were the game-winners in region. the Notre their respective contests. Their overall record stands 
D a m e Junior Tony Reid had four at 12-8, while they have yet to lacrosse goals, while sophomore Jimmy lose a match in their region. team com­Keenan scored three times and Easter weekend the squad im­
pleted its had two assists. proved that regional record to 
seven-game In Saturday's game against 9-0. 
road trip of No. 12 ranked Harvard, Notre Saturday the netters visited 
horror. Dame never led until the end Chicago as they battled the 
Despite the Dusseau of the game. Harvard had a 5-Northwestern Wildcats. The high-quality 4 lead entering the fourth Irish needed four wins on the competition, the Irish finished quarter. A Brian Erickson singles side to overcome being the trip in perfect fashion, go­goal tied up the game with swept in the doubles matches 
ing 7-0 and improving their 12:18 remaining. and pull out the victory by a overall record to 7-1. Harvard regained the lead score of 4-3. Assistant coach Tim Shea re­when Mike Eckert scored with Usually this season the men's tennis team has had a
flects the sentiments of the en­2:26 left in the final period. tire team regarding a trip that Once again, however, the Irish tough time of gaining victories included fun multi-hour bus would not die. Jimmy when they Jose the doubles 
rides. Keenan's score with only 40 point. Howev.er, on Saturday 
"We went 7-0, but on the seconds remaining sent the the Irish got some great sin­same token, we need to get game into overtime. gles play from their more back here," said Shea. According to the Irish coach-experienced players to notch 



The Observer/Eric Ruethling No. 1 doubles player Jakub Pietrowski teamed with freshman Brian Patterson to earn a tough victory over Ball State on Monday. 
• lrvin discusses drug accusations 

"Travel takes its toll. It'll be 
see LACROSSE/ page 18 
Softball 
vs. Ohio State, April II, 2 p.m. 
Track 
at Miami (OH) Invitational, April 13 
Lacrosse 
vs. North Carolina, April 13 
see TENNIS/ page 16 
Baseball 
see page 15 

vs. Chicago State, April 10, 6 p.m. 
Women's Tennis 
• Rangers remain unbeaten 
vs. Indiana, April 12 
see page 14 
Men's Tennis 

• Michigan quarterback suspended 
vs. Purdue, April 10 
see page 13 

-




