------------------~----------------------------------------------­

Monday, September 2, 1996 • Vol. XXX No. 6 THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Senior Bar reopens with menu, all-ages hours 
By l.lZ FORAN 
Edi10r-in-Chicf 
For all those underage under­elassnwn. here's your chance to finally get into a bar without IW!m g!~tting carded. 
On tho lirst day of classes, the Alumni-Senior Club (otherwise known as Senior Bar) began snrving food and non-alcoholic drink on weekdays from 7:30 
a.m. to 3 p.m. in an attnmpt to provide additional social space on tllfl south end of campus, according to Student Aetivities Dimctor Joe Cassidy. 
New serviees at the club will inrlude an extnnsive food menu along with study and social spaee. Games sueh as pool and darts will also be available dur­ing the new operating hours. 
The building will continue to opnrate as a bar during from 9 
p.m. to 2 a.m. Wednesday through Saturday nights.. No alcohol will be served during the daytime hours. 
The change was prompted by tho lack of social space on the south side, Cassidy said, and 
New policy gets mixed 
OpllllOOS 
By CAROLINE BLUM 
Saint Mary's Editor 
In a place they've historically sat. smoknd, and socialized, many Saint Mary's students were greeted not with ashtrays but pink table t1mts last Sunday whnn they ent!~red the Dining llall for the first time. 
Tlw tnnts informed studtmts of' a nPw poliey, orw of tlm~e dnseribed in thn nnw coiiPge handbook, pro­hibiting smoking anywhnr·e in the Dining llall. 
"Tiw nnw rule is annoying," snnior and Hnsidnnee llall Association (HilA) I)ining·IIall rep­rPsc~ntativP Kan~n Murphy com­nwntud. "I'vn benn sitting in the ll'ornwrl smoking snction l'or three ynar·s now. My friends and I used through expanding the hours he hopes _to provide needed space and food facilities for stu­dents and faculty members passing in and around the area. 
"We have 4000 square feet sitting vacant for the majority of the week," he said. "We asked ourselves if we were maximizing the use of this facil­ity. 
"When DeBartolo opened (in 1993), followed by the business sehoot (last year), we noticed a reduction of traffic through LaFortune during the day," he added. "The club is right next­door to those faeilities, and it could be used by the off-cam­pus students, faculty and grad students." 
Since the faeility will be mak­ing a transition from its prima­ry use as a bar to a multi-pur­pose facility, Cassidy admitted that a name change is being considered. 
"With the change in the use of the facility during the day, calling it a club is exclusive," he said. Senior Bar requires a membership card or a cover 

charge must be paid at the door. "The daytime operations are open to the entire community, 
Observer File Photo 

to nu•Pt in tlw morning to study and Among the most talked-about policy changes is the conversion of smokl'. Wn rrsl'd to sit and talk the dining hall to a non-smoking area. 
af'tnr dirrrwr l'or an hour while wn student opinion on the issue. Flyers announcing smoknd. But now, we just sit and talk aftnr din­the meeting were posted, wearing statistics rwr about how wn usnd to be able to smoke.'' about lung cancer and second-hand smoke. As part ol' hnr position on HilA, Murphy wit­"The whole Oyer was geared toward a non­IH~ssnd tlw nntin~ making or the poliey. She smoker," Murphy said. !!Xplairwd that thn procnss began from a studnnt­gnrwratPd mnc~ting that was hold to dntnrmine see REACTION I page 4 


ND re-christens campus roads 
Observer Staff Report 
With the eonstruction of new roads on cam­pus come the designation of new road names. 
Such is the case for the drive leading from Notre Dame Avenue past the new dorms and around the campus along the lakes to the east gate. That road has been named Holy Cross Drive, in honor of the University's founding religious community. 
Other eampus roads that were named or renamed include the following: 
• The road from Holy Cross Drive past Corby Hall to the Hammes Notre Dame 
see ROADS I page 4 while at night it will continue to through the rumor mill is operate as a club," Cassidy "Shamrox," which was submit­added. 

The namtl that has circulated see BAR/ page 4 
Community offers many volunteer opportunities 
For some students, leaving home often means leaving behind the opportunity to get involved in their local commu­nity. This article is part of a series focusing on ways to vol­unteer in the South Bend area. 
ByBERNADETTEPAMPUCH 
News Writer 
Epilepsy, which in various forms affects more than three million Americans, is highly treatable. The Michiana-based Epilepsy Education Association is one area organization dedi­cated not only to bringing a message of education and treatment to the public, but in finding volunteers to help sup­port their cause. 
"Epilepsy is one of the oldest conditions of mankind and one of the least recognized," said Bob Sherk, president of the Association. "Hesearch is (an) ultimate goal, not only educa­tion but finding funding for research." 
Projects that the Epilepsy Education Association are working on right now include a newsletter in the fall and an opportunity in the spring for a surgeon to come to the area and speak with medical profes­sionals about epilepsy. 
Studlmt volunteers from Notre Dame and Saint Mary's are welcome to help with the organization in a variety of capacities, especially with pro­jects involving public relations and writing. The next general board meeting will take place at the law offices of Barnes and Thornburg on the sixth floor of the First Source Bank Building, 100 N. Michigan, at 7::H> on Septembf!r 18. Sherk empha­sized that voluntnc~rs are invited to attend. 
Interested volunteers should call the Epilepsy Education Association at 27:{-4050. 
Live and in concert... 

-
page2 The Observer • INSIDE Monday, September 2, 1996 
• INSIDE CoLUMN 
Labor Day? Today? Who would have known? 
What's wrong with this 
Dan Cichalski
picture? · Look at yourself: Assistant Accent Editor You're probably sitting in a dining hall between classes. The Observer spread out on one side next to your food-laden tray. Surrounded by friends, you read the paper and discuss this morning's classes and those to come this afternoon. The problem is -and I bet few of you real­ized this-today is Labor Day. Today is the day when lazy government employees and workers in general keep the offices locked and add an extra day for one last weekend down the shore, up at the lake, or off at the cabin in the woods. ­But not here, not at Notre Dame. For some reason, The Powers That Be choose not to observe the Official End Of Summer. Back home (New Jersey), this weekend is marked with barbecues, cook-outs, trips to the beach, and afternoons spent in the boat on the river. Here Labor Day is spent in class. Rumor has it things were not always this way. My father tells me that when he was here in the sixties, there were no classes on Labor Day. However, this statement is also coming from a man who could not remember which hall was Breen-Phillips after he lived across from it in Cavanaugh for an entire year. Of course, back when my father was a stu­dent here, they had classes on Saturday morn­ing, even before the home football games. I suspect that those classes might have inter­fered somewhat with tailgating. Anyway, back to my point. Labor Day Weekend is a landmark of summer, along with Memorial Day Weekend and the Fourth of July. We shouldn't be in class today; we should be in the bleachers at Wrigley Field or up at Warren Dunes on the shores of Lake Michigan. We should be having barbecues on the decks at Campus View or celebrating my birthday. On the East Coast, school does not start for the kiddies until after Labor Day because the administrators know they wouldn't get half the students to show up on the holiday. Even many of the colleges, such as Boston College, wait until after the weekend to begin their academic years. If you're reading this during your lunch, chances are most of the Screamin' Eagles are still passed out or wondering how they got home last night. In twenty years, today is only the second time I've ever had to go to school on my birth­day because the summer back home goes until tomorrow. On the other hand, my birthdays always have been bittersweet: the joy of open­ing the presents and having the party was always slightly dampened by the realization that school would begin in less than a week. Perhaps the best argument for getting Labor Day off is the weather in South Bend. Last year, the nice weather lasted an unusually long time into October but it never returned again in the spring until the middle of May when fmals were finished. Autumn is the best season in Michiana, and it's just cruel to look outside on a day such as today (writing this yesterday, I'm assuming it's at least partly sunny today) to see how nice it is while we're stuck in a classroom reading an Emerson or Thoreau essay on nature. I ask you again: What's wrong with this pic­ture? 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
•  TODAY'S STAFF  
News  
Heather Cocks  Production  
Russ Williams  Heather Cocks  
Sports  Rosanna Ventrone  
Tim Sherman  
Dave Treacy  Lab Tech  
Graphics  David Murphy  
Tom Roland  

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
• WOFU.O AT A GLANCE 
Infamous South Carolina lake claims seven more victims 
UNION, S.C.  
A family and friends visiting the spot  
where Susan Smith drowned her two  
little boys met with tragedy themselves  
when their vehicle rolled into John D.  
Long Lake. Three adults and four chil­ 
dren drowned.  
Five of the victims were from  one  
family dren.  -parents and their three chil­ 4 miles g=s 

"It's like it's haunted or something. It 1=====-!:::::.::;:====~========:::::J 
keeps taking lives," Tommy Vinson, 46, said Sunday as he stood beside the lake a half-dozen miles outside town. 
The accident happened late Saturday. State divers worked through the night to find the bodies in the water near the boat ramp where Ms. Smith killed her children. 
The group of 10 had driven out to the lake and parked next to the ramp with their Chevrolet Suburban's headlights shining on two memorials to the Smith boys, 3-year-old Michael and 14-month-old Alex, Sheriff Howard Wells told WSPA-TV. 
Five of the group had gotten out of the vehicle when it started to roll toward the water with four children and an adult inside, said Mike Willis, a spokesman for the state Natural Resources Department. 
It passed between the memorial markers and knocked over a young tree planted in the Smith boys' memory as it slid down the steep grassy embank­ment into about 15 feet of water. 
Two adults -parents of three of the children -dived into the lake to help, and drowned with the others. 
"There's going to be some who say the lake needs to be drained. There should have been guardrails built," said Leonard Roark, a retired textile worker from Union who was among those gathered at the lake Sunday morning. 
The accident killed an entire family from nearby Buffalo: Tim Phillips, 28; his wife, Angie, 22; and Courtney, 4; Melena, 23 months, and 4-month-old Kinsleigh, saicJ Teresa Mims, the Phillips' cousin. 
Tim and Angie Phillips were the ones who jumped into the water trying to save their children and the others, said Bobby Moore, a neighbor of Phillips' mother, Patsy Phillips. 
Neither he nor Ms. Mims knew the identity of the other two victims. The Union County Sherifrs Department would not release their identities. 
Pressure builds against Iraq 
WASHINGTON 
U.S. military forces around the world were poised to move Sunday as the White House warned Saddam Hussein that his incursion into a Kurdish safe haven in northern Iraq will not go unpunished."I don't want to say when or where or what, but we will respond and we will respond with consequences to Saddam Hussein," White House 

Chief of Staff Leon Panetta said on NBC's "Meet the Press." President Clinton ordered the 20,000 American troops in the region to a high state of alert Saturday. The Air Force was assembling an "air expeditionary force" of up to 40 fighter planes that could deploy to the Middle East. U.S. military forces in the region include the air­craft carrier USS Carl Vinson, with almost 80 aircraft, in the Persian Gulf, and the carrier battle group led by the USS Enterprise, now on a port visit in Greece. Shortly after their defeat in the Gulf War, Saddam's forces moved into northern Iraq to crush a Kurdish rebellion, sending 2 million Kurds into exile in Turkey and Iran. The United States, Britain and France then established the safe haven and a no-fly zone for Iraqi planes in northern Iraq. 

TWA crash investigation continues 
SMITHTOWN, N.Y. 
The FBI knows more about what blew apart TWA Flight 
800 than it has divulged, although it still doesn't have 
enough evidence to declare it a crime, the agency's top 
investigator in the case said Sunday. "It's not that I'm try­
ing to play games with the public, but I know a lot more 
than I am telling," 'James Kallstrom said. "It serves no 
value to us to tell potential co-conspirators what we are 
doing." Since the July 17 blast that killed 230 people, inves­
tigators have found traces of two chemicals used in explo­
sives, while separate lines of inquiry have ruled out several 
possible mechanical flaws. Kallstrom, however, needs evi­
dence that can stand up in court before declaring a cause. 
"We are playing through a lot of scenarios," he said. "At 
times we have three, four or five possibilities we are run­
ning simultaneously." One area of interest is known terror­
ists, such as those involved in past conspiracies. Other theo­
ries include a grudge against a passenger or someone moti­
vated by financial gain, such as an insurance policy. 

Hurricane Edouard pounds East Coast 
BOSTON 
Vacationers fled the beaches of Cape Cod and its neighboring islands on Sunday as Hurricane Edouard barreled toward the area, washing out plans for Labor Day parades and picnics. "People are checking out of the hotel and canceling reservations," said Jane Currie-Silva, owner of The Galley. on Cliffside Beach on the island of Nantucket. "We took down the awning and boarded up the entire property ... We've closed up as if for season." On Martha's Vineyard, departing vacationers filled fer­ries and commuter flights headed for the mainland. More than 100 people were on standby for available ferry seats by morning, as officials said they were uncertain how long the boats would run. Edouard already had been blamed for two deaths in the pounding waves along the New Jersey shore, where a third person suffered a bro­ken neck while surfing. Swimming also was banned at most beaches along the southern shore of New York's Long Island, and heavy waves off that coastline interrupt­ed the work of recovering wreckage of TWA Flight 800. A hurricane warning was in effect from Watch Hill, R.I., to the Merrimack River in Massachusetts, a region including the offshore Nantucket, Martha's Vineyard and Block islands. 

Study suggests joking on the job 
STATE COLLEGE, Pa. 
Squirting the boss with a water pistol might not seem like the ticket to job security. Then again, there's something to be said for levity on the job. From harmless April Fool's pranks to elaborate practical jokes, like building a golf hole in the CEO's office, complete with sand traps and water hazardS, there is evidence that corporate America is begin­ning to take humor more seriously. "It's long been argued that good senses of humor are key communications tools that will bring about group cohesion and commitment," said John Sosik, co-author of a recent study that suggests a little levity can actually make workers perform better. "This study gives us some evidence of (humor's) effects that, in the past, were just hunches," Sosik said in a phone interview. "Humor brings people together and helps them cope with their demanding jobs." In layman's terms: If the boss is funny, you can make more money. Titled "A Funny Thing Happened on the Way to the Bottom Line," Sosik's study examined the effect of humor on job performance. 

5 Day South Bend Forcast AccuWeather'" forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 
; 
: •' 
·. /-······ ~'·-................-'/ 
Monday Tuesday ~.
~~ 
Wedne~day­
z 
Thursd~y -a 
Frid~}/ \~~{ 


• NATIONAL WEATHER 

The AccuWeather®forecast for noon, Monday, Sept. 2. 
Unes separate high temperature zones for the day. 
........................... 
COLD WARM STATIONARY 
0 19'96 A.ccuWeather, 'nc. 
Prossure 
H L 
HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAJN T.STORMS FlURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUCYY CLOUCYY 
Atlanta 82 70 Dallas 90 71 New Orleans 89 73 Baltimore 88 60 Denver 88 55 New York 83 67 
~~~~~~ ~ ~ c£f:1 
Boston 80 64 Los Angeles 85 66 Philadelphia 87 66
S;,;,~~ T-~t;,;~s Rain ~~~;;;~~ -~~:·~:· ~~-=-Sunny Pl. Cloudy Cloudy 
Via Associated Press GraphicsNet 
Monday, September 2, 1996 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Mesa-Gaido exhibit debuts in Moreau 
By LORI ALLEN Saim Mary's News EJiwr 
The Moreau Art galleries at Saint Mary's College kicked ofT the season Friday with an exhibit, "Upon the Arrival of My Family/A l.a Llegada de Mi Familia: Sculpture Installation by Uizabnth Mesa-Gaido." The opnning n~enption was followed hy a gallery talk by Mesa-Gaido on lwr work. 
MI!Sa-(;;tido discussed her background during thn talk, and how her work is the result of lwr own exptlrienee btllong­ing to two different cultures, Cuban and American. 
"Tiw body of my work deals with my family's experiences immigrating to America from Cuba in the 1960's, and the effnets it left on them as well as on tlw first generation born hern," said Mesa-Gaido. 
Mesa-Gaido uses various sculptural forms, images from tlw mass media, and sound in order to cmatn an environment whieh focuses on one's ques­tioning identity and cultural history. 
She also uses boat forms as both lit1~ral and symbolical. "Boats have been used fre­quently in literature as nwtaphors for change or begin­ning again, and my father left Cuba in a boat. therefore the boat ean hn SIHlll symbolically 
as  a  pod  or  a  seed,"  she  
nxplairwd.  
Art:hitectural spaces  and  

root-likn forms arn also pre­SIHlWd in Mesa-(;aido's work in ordnr to address metaphorical­ly change and the physical and psychological ties to culture, history or to a country. 
Mesa-Gaido includes dirt in her work, which can be seen as relating to the burial process, a moving onward and a leaving behind. Leaves and plant cut­tings are indications of roots being severed, yet growing again elsewhere. Seeds repre­sent a new beginning as well, and new metal "portrays what it is like to have to give up your past and have a dominant cul­ture looming above you," said Mesa-Gaido. 
"I believe that it is important for me to display my artwork at Saint Mary's because the more people who have the opportuni­ty to see it, the more I am given a ehance to portray my culture and to address immigration," said Mesa-Gaido. 
"Immigration is a trieky sub­ject. Most people have immi­grated from somewhere at some time or another, and now it is being capitalized," she added. 
"Displaying Mesa-Gaido's art­work is an excellent chance for students to take in different kinds of art and to view differ­ent cultures as well as deal with the metaphors of change, sueh as the boat, " said Johnson Bowles, director of Moreau Art galleries. 
The exhibit will continue through Sept. 29. Hours for tlw Moreau Galleries are Tuesday through Friday, 10 
a.m. to noon and 1 p.m. to 4 p.m.; Saturday, 10 a.m. to noon; and Sunday, 1 to 3 p.m. The exhibits are free and open to the public. 
Strike a pose ... 

The Observer/Rob Finch 
Greg Patterson follows the lead of tai-chi instructor JohnYoung during a class. 
• 
Course content wins prestige 
Special to The Observer 
The University of Notre Dame has received a $10,000 award from the John Templeton Foundation for offering outstanding courses on the relationship between science and religion. 
Notre Dame was honored for "Science and Religion" courses offered at both the undergrad­uate and graduate levels. The courses are taught by J. Matthew Ashley, assistant professor of the­ology, and Steven Crain, adjunct assistant profes­sor of theology. 
· Ashley studied physics at St. Louis University before attending Weston School of Theology and the University of Chicago, where he received master's and doctoral degrees in 1988 and 1993, respectively. He worked at the Vatican Observatory before coming to Notre Dame, where he also teaches courses in liberation the­ology. 
Crain studied physics and engineering at Stanford University before attending Fuller Theological Seminary and Notre Dame, fr_()m 
which he received master's and doctoral degrees in 1990 and 1993, respectively. 
He teaches theology at both Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College, and he authorfld an article entitled "Divine Action in a World of Chaos," forthcoming in the journal Faith and l'hilosophy. 
Notre Dame was among 100 institutions world­wide cited by the 1996 Templeton Science and Religion Course Program. According to program officials, the content and curricula of award-win­ning courses varied, but "winning courses must emphasize current developments in the field and give equal weight to both scientific and religious perspectives." 
The Science and Heligion Course Program is one of more than 40 similar aetivities of the Templeton Foundation, established in 1987 by international investment banker Sir John Templeton to encourage the pursuit of scientific and religious knowledge. Templeton received an honorary degree from Notre Dame during the University's 1996 commencement exercises in May. 

Organizational Meeting 
Date: Thursday September 5, 1996 
Location: Hesburgh Library Auditorium 
Time: 7:00 PM Beginners --Intermediate --Expert All are welcome Bring Checkbook, and Health Insurance Info. 
We Need Riders to Be clrampions of the Region and the Nation!!! 
Notre Dame -Vanderbilt 7ickets Available 1-800-852-7771 
Chinese -American Restaurant and Cocktail Lounge 
Lunches starting at .... $4.25 Dinners starting at .... $5.95 Banquet rooms available up to 200 
GREAT \VALL 
Bar and Restaurant open 7 days a week 130 Dixie Way N., South Bend (next to Randall's Inn) 
• COMMUNITY BRIEFS 
Special to The Observer 
The annual Fiesta 
Michiana, an ali-day celebra­
tion of Latin American cul­
ture, is returning to the South 
Bnnd area for the third year. 
Sponsored by area busi­
nesses in conjunction with 
the Indiana Arts Commission, 
the Fiesta features music, 
food. and dance, as well as 
showcasing Latin Ameriean 
arts and crafts. There will bo 
additional activities for chi!· 
dren. 
The Fiesta supports the 
serviees of La Casa de 
Amistad, a non-profit youth 
and community center that 
has served the llispanlc com­
munity for 22 years. 
The proceeds from the 
event will help fund the 
expansion of educational pro­
grams, family services, and 
youth services oft'ered by La . Casu. 
Fiesta Michiana will be 
held on the Morris Civie 
Auditorium plaza on 
September 7 from noon-8 
p.m. 
Professor Walter F. Pratt, Jr. will have a final meeting to inform you of deadline dates and the application process on 
Tuesday, September 3, 1996 7:00p.m. 101 Law School 
If you are unable to attend this meeting, a sheet of information may be obtained in 102-B O'Shaughnessy Hall after the meeting date. 
Chris Knych 
We miss you . Have A Great Day! 
page4 The Observer • NEWS Monday, September 2, 1996 
opposite the Grotto and run­Cross Drive provides the only 
ning to U.S. 31, will retain its route along and around cam­
Roads 
name, as will Dorr Road pus. 
continued from page 1 between U.S. 31 and the Notre In addition, improvements Dame Security Police on cam­were made to Notre Dame Bookstore is called Corby Drive. pus. Avenue, including new road 
• 
The drive behind the Main Because of the new stretch of surfaces, sidewalks, curbing,Building is known as Sorin pavement near the new dorms, and new street and sidewalk Court, in honor of the the main security gate has lighting.University's founder. moved south to the intersection The ceremonial row of trees 

• 
Old Juniper Road, which of Holy Cross Drive and Notre al~mg the avenue also were extends from the Snite Museum Dame Avenue, from its prior restored. to Douglas Road, is called St. location between Morris Inn More than 400 new trees Joseph's Drive. and Alumni Hall. were planted along the avenue 

• 
The road connecting St. A pedestrian mall has and on South Quad to replaceJoseph's Drive with the area replaced the section of Dorr dead and seriously diseased adjacent to Cavanaugh and Road that previously ran from trees that were removed Washington Halls and the Rockne Memorial to the throughout the winter. The new LaFortune Student Center is main gate. That mall was cre­trees include varieties of named Cavanaugh Drive. ated to link the new dorms -maples and ornamental trees 

• 
The semicircular road Keough and O'Neill halls, and such as crab apples.around Notre Dame Stadium is next fall, McGlinn and Welsh The summer's work was the known as Moose Krause Circle, halls -to the rest of the cam­first phase of a restoration pro­in honor of the University's pus. ject. Phase two, scheduled for longtime athletic director. Notre Dame Avenue contin­next summer, will include 


The name changes were ues to extend to the circle at its improvements to the c'bnnect­announced by the University in northern end, but access to the ing paths on God Quad, as well June. campus by car is no longer as additional new tree planti­
Saint Mary's Road, beginning available at that point. Holy ngs. 
Bar 
continued from page 1 
ted during a contest at the club last semester. Suggestions for a new name were submitted to the club for an unspecified prize. 
Cassidy said the decision on whether to change the name was not definite, although an adver­tisement ran in The Observer last week with the new name listed and Alumni-Senior Club in par­enthases immediately after. 
For many students, the changes mean not only more social space but the loss of ·Jiquid lunch as well. 
"It's not fair," said off-campus senior Susan Galanthay, who was underage last semester. "It was wrenched away from us... wrenched away when it was in our grasp." 
Junior Emily Broussard has noticed an abundance of stu­
Reaction 
dents smoking in their rooms 
lately.
continued from page 1 
"Because the smoking section is gone, smokers often wait until 
After the meeting the issue 
they get back to their rooms to
was raised to the Board of 
smoke," Broussard said. "ThatGovernance (BOG), Saint Mary's [the former smoking section]student government, and then a 
was the smoker's area."
vote was administered. 
Broussard said. "They knewAccording to Murphy, 
their friends would always bebetween 40 and 50% of students there. Now smokers socialize in 
with meal plans voted in the 
their rooms instead."
election, and barely half of these The new smoke-free Dining
students agreed to abolish 
Hall has also posed problemssmoking in tlie Dining Hall. 
for smoker and Dining Hall
"The thing that bothers me 
manager Kevin Kirwan. 
the most, is that now people are "Mariy of the people on mysmoking more in the places they 
staff smoke," Kirwan said.
can," Murphy explained. "Butts "They are upset because theyfrom cigarettes are all over the have to go outside now." 
place, especially in front of 
Many of the Dining Hall work­Madeleva. This is only amount-. 
ers who smoke now do so out­ing in more trash." 
side the service door of the
Many students agree that the building, but once the weatherbenches in front of Madeleva turns bad they may be forced toHall are now the hot spot to explore other options.
smoke before and after class. 
But many students are
"Tons of people smoke in pleased with the new policy,front of Mad eleva," junior 
providing a smoke-free atmos­Carolyn Lukas said. "I think the 
phere while they fight for a
more logical thing would have bur~er at the Grill Bar. 
been to reserve a section in the 
"I m glad students can no
Dining Hall for smokers to use. 
longer smoke in the Dining
That way, the smoke won't be Half." senior Kathleen Michaelsaround the non-smokers' food." 
said. "It's not inconvenient for
According to Murphy, the 
them, it was inconvenient foroption of designating the North 
us."
Wedge Room as a smoking area Back in their dorms, smokers
was discussed. The option are allowed to smoke in the
failed, however, because the 
vending areas, or in their roomsroom is often used for catering with their doors and transomsand student government meet­closed.
ing purposes. 
Welcome Back Summer Service Project and NYSP Stuuento 
Special thanks to 191 students who worked with programs including homeless shelter, AIDS homes, programs for disadvantaged children and teens, handicapped adults...to name a few. Your efforts were appreciated from coast to coast(+ Puerto Rico and Dominican Republic) and Notre Dame campus. 
You are wonderful ambassadors of the University of Notre Dame! 
Luis Andalon, Jr NYSP Erika Fuehrmeyer Catherine Kurowski Sean Reidy Bill Whitman Olivia Andrew Carrie Fuller Molly Lauinger Sabriya Rice Tony Williams 
Kathryn Archibald Michael Faffud Scott Leaman Kathryn Richdale Elizabeth Wons Natalia Arellano Michael Gaglia 
Adam Lips Roxanne Rodriguez Jon Worm AgelaAuth Kimberly Garbett · Denise Lofgren Richard Rolle, Jr. NYSP Ryan Wozniak Jessica Balster Catherine Gehred Carolyn Long Mark Rosenberg Therese Youngblood N) 
Deborah Barclay Casey Gentry Allison Looker Megan Ryan Dennis Zogg Sarah Bassler Theresa Gibbons Paula Lopez Rose Saari Belle Bautista Richard Glatz Regina Mactal 
Patricia Schafnitz Melanie Bean Felice Goldbach Sean Mahoney Todd Schmidt Heather Belanger KellyGoss Lisa Manabat 
Maureen Schutz Maya Borso Robert Grabowski Michelle Marcotte Rebecca Scudiero Jennifer Branigan Sarah Granger 
Bryan Mason Brian Seaman Clark Brixey Amy Green Michael McAllister Andy Sebesta 
Karen Cardinal Kyle Green Beth McCarthy Monica Seidel Edward Caspar Elizabeth Grossman Maura McCauley Molly Sharp SungCho Jennifer Guntzelman P.J. McCurry Julie Shepard Len Conapinski John Haigh NYSP Eileen McEnroe JackShem 
Regan Connell Erin Hains Peter McGarty NYSP Jenny Shurtz Patricia Connell Christine Haley KimMcGhay 
Rob Sieland Matthew Connor Nicole Hannah NYSP Kate McNally Beth Skalicky Carlene Costello Christina Harley Anne McNicholas David Smith 

Elizabeth Cuevas Janine Cuneo Kevin Cunningham Stacy Davis NYSP Karen Daylor Amy DeBoer NYSP Katie DeCoursey  Martin Hellmer Marjorie Hill Betsy Hodgson Katie Hogan Kathleen Hoitenga Colin Hutt Daniel Ibarra  Michelle McQuistan Suzanne Mignanelli Lynsey Miller Kate Mosca MarceloMou John Nakajima Beth Nolan  Kelly Smith Samantha Snyder David Spak Meagan Stoltz Jennifer Sushinsky Mary Sykora Maria Thieneman  
Mary Deitsch Amanda DiGirolamo Brian Dominic  Michael Irvine Christine Jennings Sarah Johnson  Lisa Novak JoJo Pagana Melissa Parent  Arnie Thompson Julie Tilghman Nicole Torrado  
Heather Dominique Katie Donohow  Sherricia Jone NYSP Jennifer Kaminski  Jacob Park Melissa Pasteris  John Vadaparampil J aninie Van Lancker  
Meghan Dooher James Dougherty NYSP Laurie Drew Nicole Emer Kimberly Fakler  Karen Kapusnak Sarah Katzmann Bridget Keenan Brendan Kelly Ben Ketchem NYSP  ThuyPham Molly Pierman Richard Pimentel NYSP Anthony Pohlen Erin Purtell  Kerry Van Voris Albert Vasquez, Jr. Margaret Vegh Evelyn Villarreal Allison Vitalo  
Colleen Fallon Alejandro Figueroa Mary Finley Kirsten Firla Bridgid Fitzpatrick AnneFreedy  Julie Klusas Mark Kocovski Angela Koloszar John Kosteva Andy Kostraba Maureen Kroha  Kristen Quinn Jennifer Ramirez Paola Ramirez Andrea Ray Paige Reeves Barry Regan  Kerri Vitalo Larry Ward Stacy Ward Kim West Christine White Petra White  CENTER FOR SOCIAL CONCERNS  

-------~ 
VIEWPOINT 
Monday, September 2, 1996 page 5 
THE OBSERVER 

NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q. Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1996-97 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Elizabeth For-•n Managing Edirors Business Manager Patricia Carson Man Casey Tom Roland 
News Ediror ........................ Brad Prendergast Advertising Manager ............................ Ellen Ryan Viewpoint Editor .................. Meaghan Smith Ad Design Manager ............................... Jed Peters Sporu Editor .................... .Timorhy Sherman Production Managcr ....................... Tara Grieshop Accent Editor ........................... jocy Crawford Srsrems Manager ............................ Sean Gallavan 
Sa.inr Mary's Ediror ................. C.aroline Blum Controllcr.......................................... Tyler Weber Photo Editor .......................... Michael Ruma 
The Observer is the independent n.wspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. It docs nor necessarily rcAect the policies of the administra­tion of either inlfitution. The news is reponed as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned edi­torials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, N.ws Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commemarics, lcners and Inside: C'..olumns prc:~nt the views of rhe authors, and not necessarily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's com­munity and to all readers. The free expression of varying opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 
Editor-in-Chief  631-4542  Business Office  631-5313  
Managing EditorNi~poim  631-4541  Advertising  631-6900/8840  
Spons  631-4543  Systems/Marketing Dept.  631-8839  
News/Photo  631-5323  Office Manager  631-7471  
Accrm/Sainr Mary's  631-4540  Fax  631-6927  
Day Edi10rll'roducrion  631-5303  Viewpoint  E-Mail  Viewpoint.1@nd.edu  
General! nformation  631-7471  Ad E-Mail  observer@darwin.cc.nd.edu  

• WINTER OF MY DISCONTENT 
Movin' on up...to a deluxe apartment off campus 
Helpful tips from off-campus senior to Administration 
As is the case with about half the members of my class, I am no longer a resident of the Notre Dame campus. Given that the four-year residence hall community lies at the foundation of the modern Notre Dame experience, the mass exodus of upper classmen to the apartment complexes that ring the cam­pus is a challenging and increasingly important issue. Whereas I've decided to put my money where my mouth has bt~tm and leave the dorms, I'd like to go ahead and otTer a sort of "report from thll front" of ofT-campus living. 
Notre Dame has been for generations a residential and practically self­contained campus. During my own freshman year, trips into South Bend or Mishawaka were at best a monthly alTair and I have many friends who still don't have any idea of the geographic layout of the surrounding community. Hut no eampus can remain forever an island, and the trend in recent years for an ever greater percentage of the junior and senior classes to seek non-University housing shows no sign of abating. The simple reality of the situa­tion here at ND is that moving oiT cam­pus is gradually becoming the normal and expected course of action for seniors. 
Given this, the University is faced with two dear paths: A) make the necessary adjustments-most notably introducing the option of co-ed living for juniors and seniors-to the current residence hall system and stop the hemorrhaging or B) accept and make provisions for the transformation of Notre Dame from a purely residential campus into one in which the majority of upper classman are commuter students. 
I have, along with many other stu­dents and faeulty, argued at length for this former option of on-campus reform. However, it is abundantly clear that for the foreseeable future no significant changes will be coming to hall life: Patricia O'Hara guaranteed this when she shot down last year's moderate CLC proposal for a small, experimental, seniors only co-ed facility. Thus it seems clear that the Powers Under The Dome have made their choice; they will cling to their anachronistic policies of gender segregation, strictly enforced "parietals" and general over-regulation of dorm life even if it means the ultimate Joss of 
Christopher Kratovil 

almost the entirety of the senior class as part of the residential campus communi­ty. 
Needless to say, I find this to be an unfortunate and short-sighted decision, but to continue to editorialize against it seems pretty pointless-almost the jour­nalistic equivalent of beating my head against the cinder block wall of an ND dorm room. 
So I'd like to try to shift this debate away from co-residentiality.and discipli­nary reform and onto the more prag­matic subject of how our University can better accommodate and cooperate with its ever growing ofT campus population. This discussion will take on a dramati­cally increasing importance in coming years, so we might as well get started now. 
Obviously, when a student moves off-campus they are-after consultation with their parents-irrevocably declar­ing their adulthood and independence from the supervisory duties of the University. Put in simpler terms, if any Dome bureaucrats come snooping around my house looking to act "in loco parentis" I'd be well within my rights to have South Bend's Finest arrest them for trespassing. So the relationship between the University and its ofT cam­pus students is fundamentally different from the one that exists between ND and its dorm residents. 
But this is not to imply that the University is relieved of all of its obliga­tions and duties towards its ofT-campus students. Primarily, Notre Dame work with local municipal authorities to insure the safety and security of its ofT-campus residents as they are in tran­sit between their homes and campus. For example, the streets that surround the campus are poorly lighted, narrow and often lack sidewalks. Since mem­bers of the University community-both faculty, staff and O.C. students-are the primary users of this infrastructure ND should lobby for and possibly fund their improvement. 
Cooperation between the South Bend Police Department and the Notre Dame Security/Police already exists but must be improved as student residences spring up throughout the area around campus. By way of example, The University of Chicago operates the world's second largest private police force (behind only, I'm told, the Pope's Swiss Guard) which works intimately with the Chicago PD to insure the secu­rity of UC's perimeter and of its ofT-cam­pus students. Go to any intersection in Hyde Park and see how long it takes before a UC police cruiser glides by-l'd like to see the same sort of ND police presence along our campus borders and in areas frequented by students. 
South Bend's public transportation system does not adequately serve the needs of the Notre Dame community, either on or ofT campus. The University should otTer to help fund new bus routes that would allow easier access to and from campus. Given the harsh nature of this region's climate, such a move is only sensible. 
OfT-campus students are now required to park to the immediate south of the JACC. I realize that parking is already at a premium at Notre Dame, but this seems an unreasonably distant lot to be exiled to. The construction of a multi-level parking garage that could serve the needs of all those affected by the current parking crunch-faculty, staff and students alike-should be undertaken as a practical priority. 
These are just a few basic suggestions as to how ND might better serve its ofT campus population. I'm sure I'll come up with a few more as the year goes on. 
'The University needs to 
remember that those of us who have chosen to leave the dorms in favor of a more realistic and adult lifestyle are still members of this commu­nity. At a minimum, we're still paying a lot of money for our educations and it's simply good business to take care of your customers.' 
The University needs to remember that those of us who have chosen to leave the dorms in favor of a more realistic and adult lifestyle are still members of this community. At a minimum, we're still paying a hell of a lot of money for our educations and it's simply good business to take care of your customers. The Administration has taken actions that will insure a steadily increasing ofT-cam­pus population. It had best prepare to deal with that situation now. 
Christopher Kratovil a senior living off-campus this semester. He can be reached on email at Kratovi/.1 @nd. edu. 
GARRY TRUDEAU
• DOONESBURV 
• QuoTE OF THE DAY 

ACCENT 
page 6 Monday, September 2, 1996 
Summer Fun at the Flicks 
By MARK TORMA it wasn't annoyingly self-impor­(not Emmanuel Beart). Reason sequences were a bit too fast. to. Reason to Skip: You have Accem Movie Critic tant. The tornadoes were to Skip: Labyrinthine plots can Nevertheless, the spectacle had something else to do. believable menaces, and I sym­ruin your day. been infused with some fine A Phenomenal Time to Fire ­
Ah. Another September, pathized easily with that crew Is Quasimodo Sexier than actors, and I couldn't deny John Travolta, Denzel another school year -it could be of scientists and the sculptress­Sean Connery? -I'm not them my appreciation. Reason Washington, and Matthew my last (how nostalgic senior aunt -and gaped at the destruc­equipped to answer that ques­to Watch: Well -who is sexier? McConnaughy head this group, movie reviewers can get). tion on screen. A good ride for tion, but in June, that's the Reason to Skip: Only if you and if you still don't know who 
Well, enough of that. In the the price -I expect to see it quandary we were faced with, don't want to know. Mr. McConnasomething is, then interest of not wasting any soon at Universal Studios. as· "The Hunchback of Notre Note to Bill, Wil, and Jeff: "A Time to Kill" is a must see. more time, I'll get down to busi­Reason to Watch: Barns blow­Dame" and "The Rock" both Sigourney Did It Better -This drama, along with ness. The summer movies. Bold, ing up, houses blowing up, debuted. I really enjoyed these Independence "Phenomenon" and "Courage impressive, elaborate, spectacu­movie theaters blowing up -and films; both tales of the pariah Day" was the height of the Under Fire," learned its lesson lar; they haven't failed to Helen Hunt (she didn't blow who emerges from seclusion to movie summer-with $103 mil­well: a drama only succeeds in engross the nation since 1989, up.) Reason to 
lion worth of the summer by stockpiling the when everywhere you looked Skip: Even viewers its stars. Succeed they did, and you saw "Michael Keaton as the with all those first weekend, while they didn't receive uni­Caped Crusader." FIX, still not it managed versal acclaim, they were 
So now, come May, we're sup­as good as its to be the most respected for being at least posed to believe that eating, trailer. forgettable halfway intelligent. The last breathing, AND going to the This Plot "unforget­time I looked, this was a good newest releases are vital to our Will Self­table movie thing, so give these films more very existence. I don't have to Destruct in event" ever. I than a first glance tell you that not all these over­Five Minutes saw it, I Mighty Morphin' Eddie hyped monsters are that great -This group enjoyed it, Murphy! -The only comedies to (how many of you got suckered includes Brian and then I make any waves this summer into "The Last Action Hero"?) DePalma, never thought were "The Cable Guy," but, hey, if you're stuck working Tom Cruise, about it "Kingpin," and "The Nutty in a factory or a post office all and a slew of again. Why? Professor." "Nutty" Murphy out­summer (in my case both), you actors I love Because, at did Jim Carrey and Woody might like to think that aliens to watch in the expense Harrelson. It did my heart good are mixing it up with the Fresh truly good of its to see him succeed again, and 
• Courtesy of 20th Century Fox
Prince. So with that in mind, I though he will need a return
~ 0. v •.e s · Will Smith and Harry Connick Jr. prepare to 'kick alien butt' in "Independence Day." story· the 
give you a kinder, gentler 'MissiOn: producers engagement to cement his overview of the summer at the Impossible" one-upped save his world from evil. followed a simple, multi-million comeback, I have faith. Just no movies. "Twister" and set new opening-"Hunch-back" was the best dollar formula: With super spe­more Axel Foley, please. 
Disaster in a Cornfield -The week records. Another record it movie of the summer; the com-cia! effects, make really big Finally, the last movie event summer opened with "Twister," may have set was "Most People bination of glorious music and things menace our heroes, and of the summer -Demi Moore in something I like to call "the Leaving Theaters Confused in an engaging, adult storyline we have a winner! First it was "Striptease!" And speaking of black and white section of 'The One Weekend". I enjoyed it -it really worked for me. Plus, you dinosaurs, then it was torna­something we don't see every Wizard of Oz' ," but others certainly was entertaining -but gotta love the faithfully ren-does, and now spaceships. This day, Demi will actually show up thought it stood alone well I did leave wondering, not dered Notre Dame Cathedral -is marketing genius, not film­-and I mean all of her -on enough to become the largest "What happened?," but "Why just like the real thing, I swear. making brilliance; these peo­screen at Cushing this fall. opening weekend winner in should I care?" A sometimes-More along the lines of pie's definition of plot is "A Surprised? I still am. Maybe the box-office history (at that time). intriguing plot descended into Japanimation, rather than the good excuse to blow things up." administration just likes Burt With a story that everybody schlock a few too many times, Disney sort, was "The Rock," in Jeff Goldblum talked science, Reynolds. thought was weak, but with and the interpersonal relation-which Sean Connery and Wil Smith talked smack -call it There you go -the summer special effects without peer, ships were badly mishandled. I Nicolas Cage split time between "Close Encounters of the Fresh that was, the SUB lineup that "Twister" commanded the first thrilled to the action and sus-a well-done drama and a both-Kind" This was more like a 40-will be. Happy viewing. round of Summer '96. I, too, pense sequences, however, and ersome rock-video clone. While year old B-movie with laser 
HEY! Do you watch GH?? 
was underwhelmed by the I would see it again just for they bantered back and forth, lights. Its enough to make Han 
Write the weekly update -call
story, but while all that torna­those. Reason to Watch: See Connery and Cage were a Solo look like Hamlet. Reason to do-chasing did get monotonous, above -and Vanessa Redgrave delight to watch. Still, the action Watch: Everyone will want you 
Rachel at 1-4540 NOW!! 
Days of Our Lives Update 
By JEN KOCH and JUUE BARBOUR 
Days ofOur Lives Correspondants 
Welcome back, Days fans! We're absolutely positive you were all glued to your television screens throughoutthe summer, ant.lt1J.ned in for your didly doses .<>f Salem's fine$t. But just in case ~pu did rtiJlP!:i~'of }!lmer:s, we'~]WV(l you theJ9W~ down on yourfavorite Salemites, .•• " ·. . . ·. ·•·· . ·· .·. ·· • . · 
The first half of the summer· saw the schemes of Sami and Lucas· exposed by an outraged Kate and the blackmail~happy nurse Lynn. Loyalty was not a priority in this case, as Sami played first grade tattle-tate· on Lucas after Jamie revealed all of Sapti'~ many dark secrets. The confrontation threw Carrie l:Jack into Captilin Clueless Austin's arms, while $etting Kate and t.ucas at oddswitll each other.ln thE) "l can do it faster than Judge Wapner" custody battlewhich en~ued, Sami won the cherished soap opera right to Jlegl\3ct her chit<l· (By the w~y; who takes care qf Belle, Brady, Abby. and Sean D.• anyway?!) Sami then took Will and moved into a rundown apartment in yet another attempt to win Austin's love through his pity, Has she no pride? · 
Kate was so overwhelmed with joy over the reunion of Carrie ;,m<i Austin that she temporarily forgot her own twisted troubles, involving a bec,lri<lden Victor and a seriously delusional Vivian. ..··. · t+ .·. 'f\ ··... .. . . 
The love triangle woes continued as Marlen!! discovered I<~$ten!s a~temptto destroy John's gas chamber-inspired letter to his beloved Doc. With Marlena threat­ening to tell John everything, Kristen joined forces with Stefano in an elaborate kid­napping plan. Whisked away to Paris in a classk, Dimera fantasy~land setting, Marlena agreed to spend one night with Stefano in exchange for her freedom. We're sure that Stefano, being an upstanding man of his word, would have kept his end of the bargain if given the chance. But first, ente,r John and his band of "we have noth~ lng better to do than fly halfway ~round the worhf' friends who, with Rachel's help, 
found the Parisian hideout. · · ··· ·· · ·· 
An extravagant masquerade trial followed as John was sentenced to die one more 
time. This time, however, it was death by guillotine. Vivian and Ivan popped in for some comic relief and happened to free John in the process. In the confusion, Stefano escaped with Marlena, but was followed by the ever·ready John and Rachel. John reclaimed Marlena while Rachel confronted Stefano at gunpoint.Jn a self-sa¢.­rificing gesture of nobility, Rachel shot Stefano, setting off a gas explosion whtt;lt buried them both in the collapsed tunnel. We're not counting Stefano out, though:.... we won't believe it until they show us the bodies. 
In a whirlwind of premarital bliss. Carrie and Austin decided to conveniently join 
the rest of the cast in Paris. Being the dedicated journalists we are, we've convinced 
Days to pay for OUR tickets to Paris, too. Rumor has it that money grows on trees 
out there in Salem. Queen Pessimist Celeste jumped on tbe Paris bandwagon so she 
could tell Carrie about her vision of' Austin marrying another woman. Convinced 
that DOOM was in their future, Carrie talked Austin into running away to a remote country inn where they couldn't be foung until their m~rrlage license was approved. · 
Mother Teresa Marlena promised Kristen that she wouldn't tell John about Kristen's scheming until after the baby was born. Unfortunately, Kristen's attempts to steal John's attention from Marlena led to a miscarriage. True to the Dimera blood, Kristen threatened her doctor in order to keep the secret from John. The doctor. however. put·a vvrench in her plan.to get pregnant immediately by telling John to refrain from sexu~ relations until ~fter the birth. That'll make it hard to pass the pregnancy test again, won't it?! We've gotten a glimpse ofthe future, and for John, it seems to hold some sort of glittery bralnwashing. Don't look now, John, but Kristen has some high-tech seduction planned. 
Back in Salem, psycho-neighbor Mary kidnaps Will. taking him away t'rom family 
an·.·.d· friends.· all the. way··.· to·.· ye.s~ ..y.. ou guessed.· i.t·...Paris. Wi.th. S.a... mi in hysterics, Bo
leads the kidnapping investigation while Caroline convinces Marlena to hurry home to her daughter'~ side~ Au~tin and Carrie c~m'tbe reached at the inn. but being the incredible father he is~ Austitl recognizes the. cry of the baby in the room next door as that of his son. ·· 
Bo and Hope spent the summer madly in love, again ...until Franco appeared with plans to destroy their love, again. Amidst Bo's suspicions that Franco is the evasive woman-beater, Hope and Franco took on modeling jobs with Titan. Their jobs took them to tbe oh~so-popu!ar is,~;tnd of Santa Rosa. where Hope's botel room sink flooded the room, ~ranco:Jhil:tkl]ight in shining arm~r, generously gave up.1);8lf ~is bed to Hope~ Imagtne thetr s:urprn;e when BQ walked m for an unexpected vtSlt wtth his Fancy Face! After the explanations died down, everyone returned to Salem to find a long-term contract offered to Hope and Franco. Hope turned it down, to everyone's surprise-everyone except Franco, who set up the contract as part of some larger plan for his mystery boss. This plot continues and we predict it will do so until the batteries in Franco's cell phone die. 
Over on the Horton lwmefront, Jennifer continued to encourage Jack's datlng ... until she caught a glimpse of Sharon. Touched by the ol' Jealousy bug, Jennifer regressed to the past. remembering all her good times with Jack. Peter, aware of Jen slipping away. rushed ahead with their around-the-world, let's-aban­don-Abby-again honeymoon. However, halfway around the globe in England, Peter's plans were foiled as Jen flashed back to her boarding school days in London with Jack. Every attempt to forget Jack, even escaping his name, became impossi­ble as Jen met a little boy in the park with J~ck's spunk and, yes, even his name! More troubles arose in Salem for the newlywed Blakes when Daniel Scott made another appearance in town. Jack and "I've got more new hairstyles than Demi Moore" Laura are bot on Daniel's trail. · 
That's the recap ofSummer '96, Days fans. Watch this week for Billie's long­awaited return, John's Star Trek-inspired brainwashing, and more developments on the abduction of neglected child number five. 
Jen Koch and Julie 8arb.our are juniors at N/) and SMC. respectively, and are legally Classified "Days" junkies. For now. reach Jen at Jenijer.L.Koch. 6@nd. edu. 
Monday, September 2, 1996 The Observer • CLASSIFIEDS page 7 
The Observer accepts dassifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaForrune and from 12 p.m. m 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. 
Deadline for next-day dassifieds is 3p.m. All dassifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
Classifieds 
VOLUNTEERS NEEDED  jStudent Football Card for sale­ And the next thing I know, I've got  
NOTICES  The EARLY CHILDHOOD DEVELOPMENT CENTER with programs at Saint Mary's  TICKETS  Want to buy student Ticket Booklet Call Tim 4-2318  season tickets. best offer. call cart­nay at 4-4983  wine in my hand and cheese up my...  
I'm looking for a STRINGING  College and the University of  Student Season Football Ticket  Bridget and Matty,  
MACHINE for my rackets.  Notre Dame is looking for  G.A.s SEASON TICKETS G.A  Card FOR SALE. call jean at  Where'd you guys go? I knew you'd  
Call Alex #634-2689  volunteers who enjoy working  WANTED PLEASE HELP IF  $$$ Need 4 OSU GAs. Call Collect  x0719.  have fun if you went out with me,  
with young children. If you would  YOU CAN CALL; 273-6929  Dave 810-642-8225 after 7  even if I had to force you!  
Entertainment Electronics Co.  be interested in spending 2 hours  
3509 Grape Ad(@ Classic Stereo)  a week rea1!in9 children's books,  Wanted: GAs for all games, sea­ Need accomodations for  Hey you Lardy Bastard!  
255-1172  building with blocks, and singing  son GAs. Call soon! 272-7223  NO-V andy??? NO alum has an  Tickets are NEEDED for PURDUE  Get off your butt and go to grad  
Hrs: M·F 11·5 Sat. 10-2  songs with children, please call  extra room @Opryland Hotel in  and OSUII Willing to buy or trade!  school!  
You break it. we'll fix itlll  Cindy Hestad, 284-4693 (SMC)  I will pay big $$$ for student fb  Nashville forTh., Fri. and Sat. for  Call4-3568.  
or Thayer Kramer, 631-3344 (NO).  books. Call Katie @ 243-9038.  solo@ cost.  NEED TICKETS TO PURDUE!  
THAT PRETTY PLACE, Bed and  Please join our fun filled days.  Call Brian@ 216-861-3757  Call 1-4542 ask for Liz  
Breakfast Inn has space available  Wanted: Student ticket books or  
for football wknds. 5 Rooms with  MALE/FEMALE ROOMMATE  student ticket applications.  NOTRE DAME GA'S WANTED  Tickets are NEEDED for  I Love this game, but I REALLY  
private baths. $70 -$90,  WANTED.OAKHtLL  Call x-1035.  ALL GAMES HOME  PURDUE and OSUII Willing to  hate this place  
Middlebury, 30 miles from campus.  CONDOS.VERY SAFE. I OMIN  AND AWAY  buy or trade! Call 4-3568.  
Toll Road. Exit #107.  FROM NO.  232-0058  Does anyone live in 321A Keough?  
1 -800-418-9487 Interested In Musical Theatre?  CALL 277-4924 CITY NEWS SERVICE  JUNIOR PARENT WEEKEND RUTGERs TICKETS AVAILABLE CALL 272-7233.  24 HRS. BUY -SELL • TRADE  ·I PERSONAL  Mullins, you're a dark! Mullins, you're a dark!  
Come see Student Players at  needs reliable part-time carriers for  TICKET-MART, INC.  Mullins, you're a dorl<l  
Activities Night, Sept 3  morning newspapers. Start imme­ Buy-trade all games & season  '""ZAP YOUR FAT'""  Mullins, you're a dorl<l  
at the JACC  diately, workload and pay variable.  GA's. 24 hours & local cash pick­ WANTED: NOTRE DAME GA'S  Lose Weight & Feel Great  Mullins, you're a dorl<l  
Call Mike x1186  up. 312-404-4903  ANY/ALL GAMES. PLEASE CALL  100% Natural and Guaranteed  
 
Interested In Musical Theatre?  232-0061.  No More Starving! Just RESULTSI  George, how long has It been since  
Come see Student Players at Activities Night. Sept 3  FOR RENT  I NEED GA TIXS ALL HOME  Call: (219) 289-5751  you've had a ticket?  
at the JACC  NOTRE DAME-VANDERBILT  GAMES.272-6551  $5.50 HAIRCUT  Sarah, Don't feed the Pygmiel She  
Nice 2BA+1 Bath Apt. 5 mins from  VITO'S BARBERSHOP  bites. May the smoke fund grow  
Interested In Musical Theatre?  campus. 289-3790  TICKETS AVAILABLE  NO SEASON & INDIVIDUAL GA  1523 LINCOLNWAY WEST  and the place where we keep It  
Come see Student Players at  FOOTBALL TIX WANTED. CHECK  SOUTH BEND  change.  
Activities Night, Sept 3  3BDRM HOUSE  1-800-852-7771  OUR PRICES BEFORE YOU  8-5-M-F  
at theJACC  NORTH OF N.D.  SELL.  8-4 ·SAT.  The peanut butter pie has been sit­ 
277-3097  674-7645.  ting out all night and is looking a lit­ 
Dear Class of 1998-We want our  tle shady .... mmmmm, actually it  
Students: Do you need a typist?  1, 2 & 3 BDRM HOMES NEAR  I NEED FOOTBALL GA'S!  NO PARENTS NEED 2-4 FOOT­ wookie. Return Chewy or else this  tastes better now that it has been  
Call Kathy at 277-2178.  CAMPUS. AVAIL. NOW.272-6306  WILL BEAT ANY OFFER!  BALL TIX FOR WASHINGTON  is war. One week, no questions  sitting out all night.  
CALL 243-1287 .  GAME. CALL MIKE V. 634-0997.  asked. Comply or else.-SUB and its  
50% off· used books boughVsold. 2  mafia connections  KC· my smokin' buddy, Jan,  
day ordaring, any textbook. 4  OWNER TO SUBLET PURDUE  N.D. FOOTBALL GA TIX  Shannon, Erin. Maureen, Nikki-you  
blocks South (Notre Dame ­ WK-END OR WK 9/13-9/20 AT  Need 2 Purdue GAs  BOUGHT & SOLD  Need Advice? Classes? Clubs?  guys rock. We need to party.  
Howard.) 7 days 10·6; 233-2342.  VARSITY CLUB RESORT HOTEL  Will pay $50 a piece  232-2378 ·A.M.  Traumas? LOVE?? send your let­ 
Pandora's books.  AT DISCOUNT. SLEEPS 4.  Call Jon at 634-1389  288-2726 ·P.M.  ters with a first name only to ALICE  Sparky & Steindog,  
KITCHEN, HOT TUB. POOL,  c/o Accent at the Observer, 314  I know these are getting a bit tire­ 
Retired widow available for house­ SPORTS LOUNGE, ETC. $200  NO ALUM NEEDS FOOTBALL  LaFortune. Expert replies promised.  some, but HAC & I love MB&  
sitting. Short term or long term. Call  WK·END NITES, $700/WK. 219·  Need: two tickets to Purdue game  SEASON TICKETS FOR PERSON­ Kevina  
633·4159 for details.  291-5849  and one ticket to Washington  AL USE ONLY WILL PAY WELL  
ILOST & FOUND I  1 BDRM. IN 3-BDRM HOME. CLOSE TO NO, SAFE. USE OF  game. Call Travis@ 219-634­1580.  2773097 WILL TRADE 2\tANDERBILT TIX  your son makes a pretty mean salad. But he doesn't really cook the chicken long enough.  Dante is just biding his time in Pastaland just waiting for fellow Heel MJ to pass the mantle of  
ALL UTILITIES & KITCHEN.  Need stud. tkt app I bookl $$$  FOR 2 BC OR ANY HOME GAME  world's greatest basketball on earth  
LOST -a camera at Bridget's  $275/MO. PAUL 232-2794.  x4893  2773097  first, she's a great cup flipper.  onto the gifted eyetalian. Then, the  
at the end of spring semester  Then, she's a dancing machine.  true pride of Beaver Falls will lead  
If found please call Nicole x 1412  I FORSALE  NEED STUDENT TICKET BOOK­LETS-DAVE -271-8019  FOOTBALL TICKETS NEEDED FOR OSU GAME 2 AND 2  Then there's the one who makes great french toast and then there's  the Boston Callies back to the glori­fied position of the world's greatest  
WANTED I ~----------------~  89 tercel 80k auto $3200 271·8280  NEEDED: ' MARRIED STUDENT TICKETS FOR SEASON  OR 4 TICKETS TOGETHER CALL ROBT. COLLECT 216-439-2192 AFTER 4  also the one who can't get a decent night sleep to save her life. Oh yeah, and there's one who makes a mean salad. But they've got great  franchise. We don't have time to be accurate.  
OUTBACK STEAKHOUSE, Grape  NEED 2 PURDUE TICKETSII II  posters.  In fact, we don't even have lime to  
Road. Mishawaka, is expanding its  Mac Pwrbk 150, $500  'GAs FOR OSU  PLEASE CALL X3886  correctly cook Chicken. But there's  
staff for the NO Football season.  Mac Pwrbk 5300cs, $2000  21 years ...  always rice.  
Outgoing. self-motivating individu·  271-8280  WILL BARGAIN, CALL 258-6056  WANTED TO BUY OHIO STATE  
als should apply In person. Now hir·  OR WASH. VS. ND.D TIX-CALL  LF-110 chair hockey, but maybe  Q: What do CS Lewis and John  
ing for wait. bus and host positions.  87 Plymouth. new parts & tuned 4  DAVE (614)764-7355  we could get a croquet set for this  Shingler have In common?  
Come In after 3pm today!  dr auto dependable car. $950 obo  I need several Purdue tickets. Call  year...to pass the time.  A: They don't believe in love, they  
1-9397  Jeff@ 4-0675.  Buying N.D .. Football Tickets,  just want to hook up and father  
HELP WANTED-$10.25  Public and Faculty Seats  LSF -you love the phone, girl.  future NFL players.  
Part-time work. Flexible eve. and  Need Purdue & Ohio tix. Will pay  Call 1 -800-255-2850  
weekend hours. No exp. required.  Who Needs A Bed?  $$. Also have Rutgers tix to trade  thanks for riding to Corby's with me.  Hey Ed, I saw that. There goes  
All mators welcome. Scholarships  2 new single beds for sale!  or sell. Call Erin #4030  Need Two Washington G.A.'s for  and the banana hanger is great.  your shot at glory. tough guy.  
available. Info-call 282-2357  Mattress, Boxspring, and  family, my tuition depends on it.  
Headboard included. Asking $275  " HEADIN' TO TEXAS "  Will pay HUGE bucks!  looks like Ed will get his T-shirt after  Just keep watching for those ros­ 
NEED DRUMMER  each. Call Jarrod at  Can you sell us NO -UT tix? call  Call Matt @ 234-8474 Thanks.  all.  ters y'all. We'll try our hardest.  
ALT. BAND  234-7601.  Todd x1668 or Shan x1833  
VEL VETS TO P J HARVEY  Petty cash anyone?  
283-0833/232-7392  1986 Accord LXi Hatchback 5 spd  Need 3 RESERVED SEAT tickets  Will pay big bucks for student sea­ Hey Lama-how about a little  
loaded rustproofed excellent car  for WASH. Call Brian @ 1648.  son tix. Matt@ 234-8474.  somethin', you know, fer the effort.  I love taxi-cab receipts.  
WANTED: Used TV-set  105k miles $3500 271-1040  
Call 634·4540  I NEED 2 PURDUE GAS  tj-thanks for steak & shake and  T·Shirts anyone?  
sofa sleeper for sale sleeps 2 seats  PLEASE CALL ANDREW  FINANCIAL REWARDS AWAIT  enough indigestion to last until  
BABYSITIER NEEDED 1·2 DAYS  3 $200. beige, 5 yrs old  X1942  YOU! Alum seeks happiness &  wednesday  12 days anyone?  
PER WEEK IN MY GRANGER  I am 1 mile from nd call 272-3491  fuzzy school memories. Will gleeful­ 
HOME. TWO CHILDREN AGES 6  after 3 pm matt no stains, burns.  Need 4 Purdue GAs. Call Bobby  ly pay TOO MUCH $ for 2 GA tixs.  For a mildly intersting time call  Bueller, Bueller?  
& 8 FROM 3:30 PM · 6:00 PM.  x1902.  OHIO & WASHINGTON preferred,  Kristen @ 555-geek  
MUST HAVE RELIABLE TRANS­ but not picky. Please call our busi­ White bucks are cool. They just  
PORTATION.  KINGSIZE WATERBED WITH  WANTED: 2 GA's Season Ticket  ness collect, (9-4), & ask for TED or  PC and TR: best of the worst or  exude class.  
PLEASE CALL 277-5786.  WAVELESS MATIRESS &  Please call at 256.0174, 6:00pm  JENNIFER. 616-925-0629  worst of the best?  
HEATER. BEST OFFER OVER  So do cloth belts. And "sailboat  
NATIONAL PARKS HIRING­ 150.00 277-1711  NEED 1 PURDUE TICKET  ------'WANTED----­ Hey football !ansi Watch for  shoes". And yellow floppy hats.  
Positions are now availalbe at  STUDENT OR GA  MARRIED STUDENT TICKETS  Friday's Sports pullouts where  The list goes on. You're all like the  
National Parks, Forests & Wildlife  CAR FOR SALE  CALL AMY X4218  AND REGULAR STUDENT TICK·  Sherman will astound us all with his  Gin Blossoms -hey jealousy. So  
Preserves. Excellent benefits +  1993 EAGLE TALON ES HATCH­ ETS $$$$$$  inability to pick the big upsets all  there.  
bonuses! Call: 1 -206-971 -3620  BACK 16V WHITE  WANTED: Student ticket app.  CALL KIM MARTIN  season long. He has to come up  
extN55848  Fully-Equipped, Like New in Perfect  Call243-9193  273-4789  short, otherwise he won't be quali­ GO RED SOXIII GO RED SOXIII  
Condition. Reasonably Priced  fied for his future job with James  GO RED SOXIII GO RED SOXIII  
ALASKA SUMMER EMPLOYMENT  Call273-8997 or 631-5884  Need 2 OSU GA's, will buy/trade  NEED Football Tickets  and Corso  GO RED SOX!II GO RED SOXI!f  
· Students Needed! Fishing  have Rutgers and USC. 634-0549  GO RED SOXIII GO RED SOXIII  
Industry. Earn up to $3,000­ 1995 Suzuki DR Dual Sport 650cc  Matt  2 for OSU, Washington,  I need some Snyder's Pretzels.  GO RED SOX!II GO RED SOXIII  
$6,000+ per month. Room and  great condition $3,300  Airforce, Pitt  GO RED. SOXIII GO RED SOXIII  
Board! Transportation! Male or Female. No experience necessary.  277-3670  Need 1 Purdue GA. Call 634-0549 Matt.  Call Laura 232-2976  The captain needs to stand up and salute mel Don't you agree? Well, I  GO RED SOXI!f GO RED SOXIII Please  ...  
Call (206)971-3510 extA55847  COUCH FOR SALE.272-6306  know you'd nod your head in agree­ 
NEED GA'S FOR THE WASH.  NEED 4 PURDUE GA'S. WILL PAY  ment --if you could.  BELLE/UNIQUE/AIM,  
EASTERN EUROPE JOBS·  VW 90 JETIA GL 2DA 5SPD  GAME. WILL PAY GOOD  GOOD $$$. CALL x2456.  Hey girl, I just wanted to tell you  
Teach basic conversational English  SNRF SPAT-TUNED. IMMACU·  MONEY. CALL #2456  We've got wee... not so wee..and  that ocassionally, In life, It Is neces­ 
In Prague. Budapest, or Krakow.  LATEl $6950/BEST 277-3569  t NEED TIX FOR NO-PURDUE  friggin' HUGEl! Can I help ye??  sary to jump a fence! Ro/Monique  
No teaching certificate or European  NEEDTXGA'S  GAMEl! (4 STUDENT, 3 GA)  
languages reqUired. Inexpensive  TECHLINE DAP-FRNT DRESS·  CALL MARY  CALL COURTNEY X3525  Hey Freshmen- Um& Mel,  
Room & Board + other benefits. For  ER/DSK WHITE EXCLNT CND $98  254-7647  Join the BRENT PRICE FAN clubll  We're listening to Dave at 3 In the  
Info. call:  277-3569  WANTED: TICKETS OSU  He's not Mark's little brother  momlng... aren't you jealous?  
(206)971-3680 ext.K55842  I NEED 2 PURDUE TIX  VS NO 614-687-0380 CALL COL­ anymore.  HAC&UI'BWD  
FOR SALE:  LECT AFTER 9:00PM  
Make money selling great  NEW WOODEN FUTON FRAME  FUTURE DOMER DYING TO  TOP$ PAID  Cockstock Rocked.  Lysol. Clean yes, germs no.  
European sweaters. Call for inter­ WITH RED FUTON. MAKES INTO  SEE IRISH FOR HER  IV will be better ...  
view. 237-0866  SOFA OR DOUBLE BED. $150.00  10TH B-DAYI  Need 6-8 GA Tix. AIR FORCE  Milk ... OJ .... purple stuff .... Sunny 0  
277-6438  913-541-3240  Cathy and Adam,  
Earn extra money for only five min­utes a day!  One fine futon & frame. $80 OBO.  PLEASE CALL AMBER x3729  I love you guys! Bring me a hot dog!  Sunny D ... it ain't just orange any more.  -­ 
Student carriers are needed to  Dan x4-3996.  NEED 2 PURDUE GAs  NEEDED: ONE G.A. FOR WASH·  
 
deliver the Chicago Tribune inside  Call Kieran @634-4487  INGTON GAME WILL PAY$$$$  I don't care what anyone says. We  I could never forget your precious  
all dorms for this school year.  CALL JANEL 4·2798  work hard and this paper looks  lips.  
Please call 684-4302 for more infor­ 92 JETIA 67K SSP, CRUISE,  damn good.  
mation.  SUNROOF,+. $8,500 287-1521  NEED 4 PURDUE GA'S. WILL PAY  I REALLY need tickets to OSU  Hi Doug! Um... The End.  
GOOD $$$. CALL x2456.  gamell Call Rachel @284-5201  EVERY NIGHT!II  

page 8 The Observer • SPORTS Monday, September 2, 1996 
• Nfl •MlB 
Panthers pounce in premiere; Surging Sox top Ns, 8-3 
By ANNE M. PETERSON the fourth of John Wasdin {7­Associated Press 7).
Johnson's debut a success in Miami 
Associated Press 
CHARLOTTE, N.C. 
When you're throwing a com­ing-out party for your new NFL stadium, it helps to invite one of the league's worst defenses. 
Kerry Collins threw for 198 yards and two touchdowns Sunday to help the Carolina Panthers open Ericsson Stadium with a 29-6 victory over Atlanta -the highest­scoring day in the franchise's 17-game history. John Kasay added five field goals. 
Collins, the NFL's 29th-rated quarterback as a rookie last season, was solid if unspectacu­lar Sunday, completing 17 of 31 passes. But that was good enough against a Falcons unit that was the worst in the league in 1995 defending the pass and ranked 29th in overall defense. 
Kasay kicked field goals from 32, 36, 53, 38 and 42 yards and Carolina used almost constant blitzing Ito derail Jeff George and the NFL's only run-and­shoot offense. The Panthers ~acked George seven times and frequently flushed him from the pocket, repeatedly bringing the crowd to its feet at the Panthers' new facility in down­town Charlotte. 
The Panthers, who played 
go-to man for the last two years, and the whole preseason they were going to him," Daniel said of his defense against the Cardinals' veteran receiver. 
"The last couple of plays, I 
· was just trying to get it down and not give him a chance to get to the ball," he said. "Without a doubt, why wouldn't they go to him? I knew they were going to him." The Cardinals, who scored on a 2-yard run by Boomer Esiason with a minute to go, got the ball back with the recovery of an onside kick. Esiason, who came to Arizona from the Jets as a free agent, hit four straight passes as the Cardinals reached the Indianapolis 22 with 15 sec­onds to go. But Daniel, who had offsea­son surgery for a shoulder injury, knocked the ball out of Moore's hands as Esiason went for a tying touchdown in the left corner of the end zone. Another long pass to Frank Sanders fell incomplete, and the final pass to Moore was broken up again by Daniel in the end zone as time ran out. "You always have a chance. I had a chance," Moore said of the final play. "I was hoping maybe to tap it away from him and come down with it, but he played the ball pretty good. "On the first one, he just made a play on the ball and batted it down," he said. Daniel, who missed most of the preseason, said he tried not to let his mended shoulder bother him. "I don't know how I'll feel tomorrow, probably a little sore, but that's normal. Once the game began, I really didn't think about it," he said. The loss spoiled the NFL coaching debut of Vince Tobin, who was the Colts' defensive coordinator last year, and it gave Lindy Infante a victory in his first game since he succeed­ed Ted Marchibroda as coach of the Colts. 
DOLPHINS 24, PATRIOTS 10 
MIAMI 
Jimmy Johnson said the Miami Dolphins would succeed this season by running the ball and relying on rookies. 
So far he's right. 
The Dolphins were both good and lucky Sunday in the first game under their new coach, dominating time of possession and scoring twice on fumble recoveries to beat the New England Patriots 24-10. 
Several of Johnson's 10 rook­ies had big days. Karim Abdul­Jabbar rushed for 115 yards in 26 carries, fullback Stanley PPitchett caught six passes and blocked well, and middle line­backer Zach Thomas had nine tackles and a sack. 
But the biggest Dolphins debut was made by Johnson, coaching his first game since leading the Dallas Cowboys to the 1994 Super Bowl title. 
"It was a good way to start," Johnson said. "I got a little ner­vous Saturday night and today. Every time I turned on the TV or read the paper, everyone was picking New England. Nobody was picking Miami. It was a little different feeling." 
For New England, the loss followed encouraging victories in the final three preseason games. 
"We were the unbeatable Patriots," linebacker Chris Slade said. "Now we're the bad Patriots." 
The opener drew a sellout crowd of 71,542. Former coach Don Shula declined to attend, making it the first Miami game he has missed since 1969. 
Dolphins safety Sean Hill and receiver Scott Miller scored when they recovered fumbles by teammates, and new kicker Joe Nedney hit a 34-yard field goal. Abdul-Jabbar added a 3­yard touchdown run while becoming the first Miami rookie to rush for 100 yards since Sammie Smith in 1989. 

CID411 POIII 
SAtURDAY, OCTOBER 5TH TICKETS ON SALE NOW AT niE LAFOmNE INFO DE. FOR $30. 
SAT,SEPTnH AT NOON IN 
113 
LAFORTUNE! 
OAKLAND, Calif. 
In his first start for the Boston Red Sox, Nomar Garciaparra put his nervous energy to work. 
Garciaparra got his first major league hit -a home run -and added an RBI single Sunday as the Boston Red Sox beat the Oakland Athletics 8-3. 
"Maybe I was a little excited out there and the adrenalin was running," said Garciaparra, a shortstop called up Saturday from Triple A Pawtucket. "Once you get that first one {hit) out of the way 1 think it eases up a bit." 
He made his major league debut in the seventh inning against the A's Saturday night, lining out to center field in his only at-bat in the eighth. 
On Sunday, he flied out for his first at-bat in the second inning, then hit his home run in 
Garciaparra finished the day 3-for-5. 
"It was good to get the first game and the first hit -espe­cially when it was a home run -out of the way," he said. 
"Garciaparra had a good day," said Red Sox manager Kevin Kennedy. "He's got good bat speed and home run power. He's for real." 
Red Sox starter Aaron Sele {6-9), activated earlier in the day from the disabled list where he was nursing a strained rib cage muscle, allowed four hits in six innings for his first win since Aug. 3. 
"It was real positive for me to throw six shutout innings. I got a couple ·or good outs with the changeup," Sele said. "I felt like I've been healthy enough to pitch the last couple of weeks." 


Paid Positions Available For... 
"W"eb Product:ion Team. Members 

The ~eb Production Tea.n Members are responsible for publishing the daily edition of the Observer on the Internet. The Observer offers the best learning .environment for online publishing. If interested, cont:actJason Huggins at The Observer, 314 LaFortune Student Center. 
No experience necessary!! 
Ballet Folklorico Azul y Oro Practices: 
Come learn traditional Mexican dancing. 
Everyone is welcome. Sundays, 3-6p.m. in 
Lewis Hall basement. 
Pre-professional Students: Have you ever 
considered dentistry as a career? Check out 
the Pre-Dental Society table at Activities 
Night. 
Club Council Needs You! Club Council 
always needs volunteers. Come help us 
determine where your money should go. 
Stop by and see what we are all about. 
Stop by our 2nd floor LaFortune office to see what the Club Council has to offer you and your organization! 

. . The Observer/Rob Finch 
Setter Ja1m1e Lee successfully quarterbacked the Irish and earned MVP honors in the Shamrock Classic. 
Volleyball 
continued from page 12 
to miss Ervin," Brown men­tioned. "She does a lot of good through hm passing and her defense. With .Jen we have a little less experience but she will do fine. This changes our system, but we have done that bdore." 
The Irish also received terrif­ic play from all-tournament junior Angie llarris. The out­side hitter picked up from wh11re she left off last season when she lead the Big East in kills. In Saturday's champi­unship match over the Gamecocks, she collected 14 kills and five aces to lead the Irish in those categories. 
Leffers worked through but­terflies on Friday to turn in very strong performances on Saturday. 
"! felt like a little fish in a big sea," expressed the 6-4 middle blocker about her first colle­giate match. "But after that I felt a little more comfortable." 
The intimidating Leffers can provide the Irish with a force in the middle, something that they lacked last year. 
Welcome Back Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Students 
CHESAPFAKE 
BAGFJ, 

•
Fresh Baked Bagels 

•
Homemade Soups & Salads 

•
Hot & Cold Deli Sandwiches 

• 
Gourmet Coffees 

• 
Cappuccino & Espresso 



Road 
ISam'a Club I IVenture j 

I 
N. MainSL 
5920 Grape Road, Mishawaka, IN 46545 Phone: 219-272-9415 • Fax: 219-272-7775 
Cappuccino
Free 
Buy 1 deli sandwich 
Specials
& get 1 of equal or Jesser value 
Short -$1.00
FREE. 
Tall-$1.50
Must be presented at time of purchase. Not -valid with other 
With coupon only. Not valid 
offers of promotions. One per with Any Other Coupons. Limit 
customer. Valid only at Grape one coupon per customer. 
Road. EXPIRES S/20/96 
"Mary can give us a solid block and we needed another big middle blocker last year," Birkner mentioned. "Now, we have several with Jen (Rouse), Lindsay (Treadwell}, and Molly (McCarthy)." 
"Her last two matches were a l~t better and she played with a lot of confidence," Brown men­tioned of her prep all-american. "She did well blocking and hit­ting, which is where we need her to carry a load this year." 
Defensively, Lee, Birkner and sophomore Lindsay Treadwell lead the way. In Saturday's matches Treadwell totaled 16 digs while Lee and Birkner con­tributed 13 a piece. 
With a consistent top five pro­gram visiting the JACC this week the team knows where they have to improve. 
"We need to communicate better. and when something does not go our way we need to pull together and forget about it," Leffers explained. "We tend to dwell on our mistakes too much. Volleyball is a very mental game, especially against top teams." 
Coach Brown also sees room for improvement. "We need to w.ork on rotations, we have to iron those wrinkles out." 
page 9 

Ravens' debut a sm.ash 

Jaguars surprise, Eagles eke by Redskins 17-14 
By DAVE GOLDBERG 
Associa ted Press 
BALTIMORE 
Even the brilliant Johnny Unitas couldn't have done what journeyman Vinny Testaverde did as the NFL returned to Baltimore on Sunday. 
Testaverde ran 9 yards for one touchdown and scrambled 12 yards to set up the winning score as the Baltimore Ravens began life outside Cleveland with a 19-14 win over the Oakland Raiders, the team that opened the NFL's franchise free agency era. 
The win by the Havens was the crowning moment of a day of celebration welcoming the NFL back to Baltimore 13 sea­sons after the Colts left for Indianapolis. The crowd was raucous all day, and at one point in the fourth quarter, ref­eree Dale Hamer had to implore the people running the public address system to stop playing music while the Raiders were huddling. 
But until Testaverde guided an 82-yard, eight-play drive that led to Earnest Byner's 1­yard touchdown run with 7:50 left, there was little to cheer about for the Municipal Stadium crowd of 64,124, largest in Baltimore football history. • 
In fact, the loudest noise was reserved for Unitas, the bril­liant but relatively immobile quarterback who led the old Colts in the glory years of the '50s and '60s. He was intro­duced as a "special mystery guest" after three dozen for­mer Colts had run onto the field. 
For most of the game, the Baltimore offense was stymied by an Oakland defense that 
,,."
Bh-thday,Tracy! 
Do something nfasclnatin~' this year! 
Love, 
Saint Vudo 
BecoME A CATHOLIC 
Sacred Heart Parish University of Notre Dame 
Offers 
R.C.I.A. with: 
• 
Pcu-ish setting· on ND ('Uil1JHIS 

• 
\VPdnt'sday evening· sessions 


• Altl•t·nalive to Campus l\linistr~· UClA 
Call Chris Miller at 631-7 508 
sacked Testaverde three times 
and had him under constant 
pressure, mostly by Anthony 
Smith, Pat Swilling and 
Aundray Bruce. 
After Testaverde scrambled 
in for the first touchdown in 
Ravens' history at the end of an 
85-yard drive, the Havens 
offense largely shut down. 
Billy Joe Hobert. subbing for the injured Jeff Hostetler. com­pleted TD passes of 7 and 10 yards to Tim Brown to give Oakland a 14-7 halftime lead 
JACKSONVILLE 24 
PITTSBURGH 9 
Pittsburgh coach Bill Cowher had a gut feeling about starting Jim Miller at quarterback. It looked more like a bad guess against the Jacksonville Jaguars. 
Mark Brunell ran a conserva­tive but efficient offense Sunday, throwing two touch­down passes and completing eight of 13 passes on third­down situations, leading the Jaguars to a 24-9 victory over the Steelers. 
The Jaguars put the game away when rookie linebacker Kevin Hardy, the No. 2 pick in the draft, stepped in front of Mike Tomczak' pass for an interception. James Stewart scored on a 1-yard run for a 24-9 lead with 4:49 remaining. 
Miller, a third-year pro who had played in three games, won the quarterback derby over Kordell Stewart and 11­year veteran Tomczak. Miller completed only three passes longer than 10 yards. In seven third-down situations, he com­pleted only one pass -an 8­yarder to Stewart. 
He finished 9-for-17 for 83 yards. 
Stewart wasn't effective. either. The Jaguars stuffed two option runs, and he missed badly on his two pass attempts. 
PHilADELPHIA 17 WASHINGTON 14 
Rodney Peete, overcoming a gimpy knee and three turnovers that kept it close, used his full arsenal of offen­sive weapons against the Washington Redskins. 
Peete, playing with a brace on the sprained left knee he injured two weeks ago, threw for 269 yards and two touch­downs in the Philadelphia Eagles' 17-14 victory Sunday, their eighth consecutive win over their NFC East rivals. 
The backfield and Peete slowed by injury, the Eagles (1­
0) were expected to drive the ball at the Redskins' untested defensive line. Instead, Peete (20-for-34) picked the sec­ondary apart in the first half, 
ferent receivers who were left wide open. 
Please Recycle The Observer 

-


University of Notre Dame 

~IOOtT ~CQUIRt'S~
International Study 

·L 1025 So. Bend Ave .JI

Program in 
I So. Bend, IN 46617 I Friday:
Wednesday: 


Open 2:00pm
DJ & Giveaway 
Bridget's Owns (Free
Night
Innsbruck, Austria 
Tuesday Nights! Munchies)
Thursday: 
287-6966 Saturday:
Information meeting 
Open 5:oopm Open 8:00pm­
with 
NDvs. 3:00 am
Professor Ursula Williams 
Vanderbilt Stomper Bob 
Tuesday, September 3, 1996 
4:30PM 
223 Hayes -Healy 

page 10 
Hole-in-one for Woods 
Associated Press Woods pulled the ball out of MILWAUKEE the hole to whistles and cheers and threw it into the·crowd. 
Tiger Woods, playing in his The hole-in-one gave Woods ftrst PGA Tour event as a pro· his second eagle of the day and fessional, shot a hole-in-one put him 7-llDder-par throughSunday in the final round of the 14 holes. Greater Milwaukee Open. The 20-year-old U.S. 
Woods selected a 6-iron on Amateur champion's play the 188-yard, par-3 14th. marked a turnaround from Woods waved his bat and high­Saturday's third round, when fived playing partner Joe Daley he. shot a 2-over-par 73 to as the crowd, lining the hole bring in the second-highest from tee to green, went wild. score of the day. 
Jackson emerges as Buckeyes' new QB 
Associated Press year is that he has really made a commitment off the field in COLUMBUS, Ohio terms of mental preparation. 
Ohio State football coach "He now has a much better John Cooper has decided understanding of what it takes junior Stanley Jackson will be to be the No. 1 quarterback his starting quarterback in and what we expect of bini in this week's opener. terms of running this team. I 
Jackson saw limited action am confident that he is last year as the No. 2 signal­ready." caller behind Bob Hoying, who Jackson, 6-foot-1, 203­was drafted by the pounds from Patterson, N.J., Philadelphia Eagles. beat out sophomore Joe 
In eight games, Jackson Germaine, who was redshirted 
completed 16 of 25 passes for last year. Mark Garcia had 202 yards and two touch­arthroscopic surgery on his downs. left knee on Aug. 20 and will 
"Stan has had a good fall miss the entire season. 
camp and has earned the Ohio State opens its season starting job," Cooper said. "He next Saturday at home againsthas always had the physical Rice. talent. The big difference this 
Sampras sails . 
By STEVE WILSTEIN Associated Press Writer 
NEW YORK 
Wherever Pete Sampras. goes, Mark Philippoussis follows, stalking him with menacing serves, threatening to grab a Grand Slam title himself one day and usurp the No. 1 spot. 
On Sunday at the U.S. Open, they blew past their opponents to set up Sampras vs. Philippoussis IV, a sequel with "Rocky" overtones. 
Sampras, the defending champion and No. 1 seed, reeled off 18 aces in a 6-3, 6-4, 6-2 rout of Alexander Volkov on the stadi­um court. Next door on the grandstand court, the unseeded, 19­year-old Philippoussis looked no less impressive with 25 aces in a 6-3, 6-2, 6-4 romp over 1993 finalist and No. 16 seed Cedric Pioline. 
Philippoussis' serve was so intimidating that Pioline flipped his racket around at set point, trailing 40-0, in the second set to try to hit the ball with the handle as if it were a baseball bat. Pioline foul-tipped the ball and lost the set. 
Sampras and Philippoussis have played three times in Grand Slam events in the past year: Sampras won here a year ago in a tough, four-setter; Philippoussis blasted him in straight sets on the hardcourt at the Australian Open in January; and Sampras finessed his way to a victory in straight sets on the grass at Wimbledon. The next meeting will be Tuesday. 
"Some guys are always in your quarter or half. He's one of them," Sampras said. "He's dangerous. He's got a big game. He proved that in Australia. Got back at him at Wimbledon." 
The Observer • SPORTS 
Soccer 
continued from page12 
the first game, playing on the 
• road at a small field, there were some real positives." The biggest positives for the coach were the shutout for the defense, and the fact that it was an away win. Senior midfielder Chris Mathis also acknowledged the importance of the conference road victory. "We had no Big East road wins last year," explained Mathis. "We need to win those games (this year)." Mathis and fellow midfielder Tony Capasso took the early initiative in Saturday's matchup. Mathis, the left mid­fielder, recorded the first Irish goal for the second straight year on a cross from Capasso. 
The play developed when Capasso stole the ball from one of the Friars in midfield. After executing a wall pass with junior Bill Savarino, Capasso delivered what Berticelli called "a great ball" to the foot of Mathis, who beat Providence goalkeeper Daniel Pires with a strong shot to the near side of the goal. The score came 
14:48 into the game. 
"We really started well," commented Mathis. "We came out with high intensity." 
Capasso agreed with Mathis'. 
"For the first twenty minutes we were all over them," said Capasso. 
A few minutes after the goal was scored, the Irish appeared to let up on the pressure. The remainder of the first half was the only period of time during which Providence was able to gain any momentum. 
In the second half, the mid­fielders and defenders 
Celebrate a Mend's birthday with a special Observer ad 
Monday, September 2, 1996 
The Observe"r/Mike Ruma The Irish defense was up to the task this weekend, as the stifling play contributed to a 2 -0 start to the regular season. 
slammed the door on the on the game Berticelli stated, Friars. Providence managed "Certainly this was a very big just one shot on goal in the win for us. Every conference second half and was outshot game is critical." 11-5 in the contest. The coach stressed the fact, 
"In the second half we came however, that the season is 
out strong," said Mathis. "We still young. 
kept them at bay and they "We will continue to show 
never really had a big chance." improvement," said Berticelli, 
The defensive performance "but we're going to make mis­
of the team can be credited takes. If you can survive mis­
somewhat to the play of fresh­takes and still win, it bodes 
men defenders Alan Woods well for the future, when hope­
and Matt McNew, with the vet­fully you can eliminate those 
eran leadership of senior mistakes." 
defender Brian Engesser. 
Mathis commended his The Irish will look for that 
younger teammates. continued improvement 
"Alan Woods is a tremen­against regional rival 
dous talent," said Mathis, "and Northwestern in the home 
Matt McNew did very well. His opener. The game is tomor­
height helps us out a lot." row night at 7:30 p.m. on 
In summarizing his thoughts Alumni Field. 

~ec~ "~0~
C
lJqi/Jt>.v_oq 7's 
1olis~· 
1/ft.> 
Saturday, September 7
& . 
Sunday, September 8 
Notre Dame Golf Course Tee Times Beginning at 9:00 
9 holes on Saturday & 18 holes on Sunday Play your own ball Divisions after first day (2 each for men and women) Fee is $12.00 Register & pay fee at Golf Pro Shop Deadline is Wednesday, September 4 For more info. call RecSports at 1-61 00 
-

~---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~----------------------~ 
Monday, September 2, 1996 The Observer • TODAY page 11 
MIXED MEDIA JACK OHMAN YOUR HOROSCOPE JEANE DIXON 

• OF INTEREST Madison Center And Hospital's Sex Offense Services (S-O·S) is seeking prospective volunteer advo· cates to assist individuals in crisis situations. The ten week training program will begin September 24. People interested in serving as volunteer advocates should contact Madison Center's S-O·S office at 283­1308 by the September 19 application deadline.  
•MENU Notre Dame North South Vegetable Calzone Chili Chicken Teriyaki Eldorado Casserole Beef Turnovers Country Fried Steak BeefTamale Baked Cod Jardiniere Saint Mary's BBQ Boneless Pork Rib Mixed Vegetables Southern Chicken and Dumplings  
Have something to say? Use The Observer classifieds  

MOTHER GOOSE & GRIMM 
DILBERT 
ADMINISTP-ATOR. 
MISTER. DOGBEI\T? 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 3t Texas shrine 32 Better half
t Wise man in a turban 34 Knife 6 Cleopatra's 38 Start of a snakes message on a to Furniture 
20-Across buildup 4t Narrow wood t4 Belly button 
piece 
42 Termites' kin obstruction 43 Frozen t6 Disappear --44 Mata Hari, e.g. thin air 
f5 Blood 
45 Cider f7 Perfect ingredients t8 Sailor's tall one 46 Perspire 
t 9 Protected. as 5o Agitate the feet 
52 End of a 20Vacation message on a memento 20-Across 23Foam 
59 "Besides that 
..
24 --Park. Colo. 25 Sign up with 60 Baseball's again Musial 29 Tina Turner's ex 61 Passover feast 
10 Records 1 t Take off the
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
topper 12 Five-and-ten, e.g. t3 Lincoln's 
in-laws 21 Hasten 22 Caddie's 
offering 25 Stadium cheers 26 Carrier to Tel 
Aviv 27 Coffee, in slang 28 Leave out 29 "How sweet 
--!" 30 Barbie's beau 32 Lots 


GET ON-LINE! 
t---._.;.._---~------· __ , .. 
Student government's on-line book fair gives you a chance to get more and pay less. Forget high prices and low ~e-sale. 
Search for books you need or sell books you have by getting connected to http:/jwww.nd.edu/-studegov/ 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY! IN THE NEXT YEAR OF YOUR LIFE: Your dreams of adventure will start coming true. Devote more attention to your mate if you want romance to be mutually satisfying. Your drive and determination will make you successful in almost any profession. Creativity and profits arc inter­twined. Offer a service no one else provides' The family circle expands early in 1997. Welcome a newcomer with a happy heart. Alliances of all types enjoy highly favorable influ­ences. 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: tennis great Jimmy Connors, actor Keanu Reeves,
MIKE PETERS singer Rosalind Ashford, defense attorney Robert Shapiro. ARIES (March 21-April 19): A family get-together that includes a few friends or neighbors will prove especially fun. Share the preparation 
I HATS WHe"N 
H£RWIP6RS and clean-up chores. Those driving to a park or picnic grounds should
~R£AK, get an early start. TAURUS (April 20-May 20): A barbecue or softball game helps bridge a generation gap. Eat and exercise in moderation. Romance may seek you out this week. Show your confident, businesslike side. GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Make this a happy day for children. Fun family activities will end their summer on an upbeat note. Certain household chores can no longer be postponed. CANCER (June 21-July 22): A 
parent will be impressed by your style of entertaining. Prepare food in
l DON'T LIKE PEOPLE.. 
advance for a buffet supper. Color­
ful paper plates and plastic utensils SURE, AS 
iHI'E> IS A. GOOD 
are fine for outdoor dining. 
OPPORTUNITY TO ANNOY CAN '(OU 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Put your
FM\ AS 
best foot forward today. A romantic
IDIOTS SUCH AS START 
relationship will deepen in time. Be
YOU KNOW.
YOURSELF FOR 1"\Y OWN TOMORROW? 
considerate. Leave your pets at home
I'LL GIVEENTERTAIN f'I\E.NT. 
62 Orange waste 63 Cooking fat 64 More logical 65 "Au I~ Lang 
66--law (principle of electricity) 
&7 Gems 
DOWN 
t Barber's motion 2 Desert stream 3 With: Fr. 4 Companion of 
potatoes 5 Magic trick & Performed 7 Smacks 8 Visitor to Kublai 
Khan 9 Marie and others: Abbr. 
'<OU 1''\Y PAGER 
NUf'\BE.R. 
33 Where the rudder is 34 Red's signification 35 Money drawer 36 Gallic girlfriend 37 Infirmary capacity 
39 Clothing chain since 1969, with "The" 
40 After-dinner order 
44 Hogs' home 
45 Tire filler Answers to any three clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420-5656 (75e per minute). 
Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: (800) 762-1665. 
if anendmg a neighborhood picnic. 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Scpt. 22): Make this a "labor-free" Labor Day hy serving cold cut!-and salads from a local deli. Picnickers should take along blankets, cold drinks and something to read. A telephone call brings welcome news. 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0cl. 22): Invite a friend or neighbor who lives alone to join in today's festivllie~. Share a ride if going to a park or returning from the beach. Break up the party early to avoid traffic snarls. 
SCORPIO (Oct. 2:\-Nov. 21 ): Casual entertaining leads to a promising romantic encounter. A former love could show renewed interest. Be wary of rekindling your earlier relationship. 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21 ): A company p1cn1c will he fun if you are on your best behavior. Wear traditional sports anire and go easy if alcohol is served. Share in the clean-up chores without waiting to be asked. 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 
19): Water sports may hold special 
interest today. Do not swim alone. A 
light lunch of sandwiches and fruit 
hits the spot' When visiting the 
beach or pool, take along a change 
of clothes for children. 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): 
Accept or extend a last-minute invi­
tation. A small gathering will be 
more fun than a larger one. A new· 
comer's overtures may not he wel­
come. Stand firm. Familv members 
draw closer together i1i an emer­
gency. 
PISCES !Feb. 19-March 20): A 
lazy morning at home hold' strong 
appeal. Later, take a walk with a 
romantic partner or a favorite 
canine. Finding out more about 
another culture could make you 
more tolerant. · 
-
.. 
4& Exchanges 47 Aviator Post 48 City on the Ruhr 49"... like--in 
the head" 50 Group of bees 51 Watches over 
53 Norway's capital 54 Salt Lake's home 55 Pile 5& Author Ferber 57 Movie unit 58 Misses the mark 

-· 

SPORTS 
12 
• VoLLEYBALL 
Shamrock roll 
Jaime Lee  15-8, and Toledo 15-9, 15­7, 15-9. The tournament  captain and all-tourna­ment selection Jenny  
handles first  MVP added 15 digs, six kills, four blocks, and four  Birkner evaluated. Freshman middle block­ 
test as setter  aces as she grew more confident at the key setter  er Mary LeiTers, also an all tournament selection,  
By JOE CAVATO  position. "I think Lee did a great  marveled at what Lee has been able to do.  
Sports Writer  job and made good choic­ "Jaime  is  doing  an  
- The Notre Dame volley­ball team had a productive weekend as they cruised through the Shamrock classic without losing a game. The sixth ranked  es," head coach Debbie Brown praised. "She doesn't make spectacular plays but she is just very solid, which is what we need at setter." "I felt a little nervous  incredible job. I don't think any other player on the team could do what she has done. She has also had to deal with a lot of pressure because the setter is the core of the  
Irish got three matches under their belts before this Wednesday's chal­lenge when the second ranked Stanford Cardinal visit the JACC. The experience was much needed as junior Jaime Lee saw her first action at setter in match play. Carey May, the usual setter, was forced to  because I have not played setter before," Lee expressed after Friday's match. "But, we have practiced enough so I felt confident. Also, our hit­ters are so good that I don't have to be perfect, I can just put it up there and they will take care of it." Lee's teammates also  team." During Friday's match against Central Florida, the Irish suffered another setback. Senior Kristina Ervin, Lee's replacement at outside hitter, sustained a "moderate ankle sprain" and is out for an indefinite period of time. Senior Jennifer Briggs was thrown into the start­ 
watch from the sidelines with a dislocated shoulder. Lee racked up 102 assists as the Irish swept through the tournament field of Central Florida, South Carolina 15-8, 15-4,  grew more comfortable with the new setter. "She played great and is working really hard. You never know what is going to happen so we needed a backup setter." senior  ing rotation and filled in nicely as she totaled twelve kills in her two starts on Saturday. "Of course we are going see VOLLEYBALL I page 9  

Monday, September 2, 1996 
The Observer/Rob Finch 
Midfielder Konstantin Koloskov fought through Friar defenders in the 1-0 victory. 
Providence provides first road win of Big East season 
By BRIAN REINTHALER ranked last once again in this year's 
preseason poll. 
Some teams might have felt a great 
Any coach will tell you that it is deal of pressure in such a situation. 
important for his or her team to get off especially following a season in which 
to a strong start. But never has that many felt that the squad had under­
statement been more true than it is achieved. However, the Blue and Gold 
this year for coach Mike Berticelli and rose to the occasion with a 1-0 victory 
the men's soccer team. Heading into and dominated a much improved Friar 
last Saturday's season opener at team throughout the contest. 
Providence, the Irish could not afford "Overall, it's a very good start for 
to drop their first game to a team us," said Berticelli. "We felt that for 
which not only finished in the base­
ment of the Big East in 1995, but was see SOCCER I page 10 

The Observer/Rob Finch 
The Observer/Rob Finch 
Holly Manthei and the Irish demolished Big East competition this weekend. See 
All-tournament selection Jenny Birkner contributed to the defense with timely digs. 
tomorrow's Observer for details. 

·,, ,. '"'' Football Men's Soccer • Tiger Woods wows with ace
a;
at Vanderbilt, September 5, vs. Northwestern, September 3, 
see page 10
7:30p.m. 
7:30p.m.
SPO 
Volleyball 
vs. Stanford, September 4, .....-= • Ravens make history 
·-
Women's Soccer 
at a 
7:00p.m. 
rn 
see page 9 
vs. Wisconsin, September 6, 7:30p.m. 
SMC Soccer 
• Jimmy Johnson returns to Miami 
vs. Manchester, September 3 
~
GLANCE 





