

Thursday, February 15, 1996• Vol. XXVII No. 90 THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAIN ' 
Miller and Murray triumph in run-off 
The Observer/Katie KroAner 

The Main Building's rotunda remains covered in scaffolding after plaster began to crack and fail from its inte­rior. A display of African tapestries was removed from the rotunda to protect the artwork. 
Damage forces exhibit removal 
Candidates 'honored' by win over Mclnerney/Wolsfeld 
By KRISTI KOLSKI A"isrant News FJitor 
Winning a majority of votes on all four quads, Seth Miller and Megan Murray will lead the student body as the president and vire-pn~sident in the com­ing year. 
Tlwy sen the vote as a call to w~t tlw campus connnetml. 
"The student body put their trust in us and we really value that." Murray said. 
Miller edwed similar senti­nHml'i. "We really feel honored and we will try to do our best." 
With a platform outlining ex­Jlf~riencf~. n~search and realistic goals to eiTect change in sixteen diiTerent areas. Miller and Mur­ray won 55.5 percent of the to­tal vote, with 2,022 student votes in tlw election. 
Byan Mcl1w rney and Matt Wolsfeld claimed 45.5 percent of the vole. or 1,619 student 
Vlllf~S. 
Although disappointml. Meln­Pnwy expressed support for the MiiiPr and Murray ticket. lie also hopns to contlmw working in the area of student gov­ernment. 
"Any avenue we can pursue to implement our ideas would be great," Mcinerney said. 
Wolsfeld declined to com­ment. 
In yesterdays runoff, 47.7 pereent of students voted, down from Mondays primary election participation of 50.1 percent. Only 85 of the 1,400 off-campus stud1mts voted, also down from the 102 students who cast bal­lots Monday. 
After taking some time to sa­vor their victory Miller and Murray will start working on implementing their platform. 
Their ideas focus on the debit card. football tieket exchange, computer resources, financial aid, the student section in the renovated stadium, student in­put, aeademic resources, Weekend Wheels, gender rela­tions, Mod Quad ATM. athletic facilities, book exchange and having fun. 
"We just really want to thank everyone who supported us," Miller said. 

..tm"~-~T~~oA~E 

By DAVE n LER News Editor 
An exhibit of African textiles is se1~king a new home today af­tnr plaster damage to the ro­lun da of tlw Administration Building 1weessitated its re­moval, according to Doug Bracllny, eurator of the Arts of the Anwriras, Africa and Ocea­nia for the Snite Mustwm. 
Tlw exhibit, assembled in honor of Black llistory Month, had to bn nnnoved from the rotunda lwcausn falling and t·.raeking plaster from the intn­rior of the rotunda m1dangered the lapistries. Tlw exhibit did not eause thn damage as was originally rnportml. 
"There's no way the cables (suspending thn exhibit) wen~ causing the cracks. They were attached to the floor joists," Bradley noted. lie said repair­men assured him that the dam­age and cracking was caused by other sources. 
Bradley speculates several factors, including the eonstruc­tion on the exterior of the building contributed to the craeking. 
"It's an old building, and we just had some of our coldest weather of the ye.ar, that may have helpnd," he said. 
The dust and debris created thrnatnn to do serious harm to the fabrie pieces, Bradley said. "It's too dangerous with all that plast1~r dust; it will get into any­thing and everything," he said. 
There was no damage to any of the textiles but the exhibit is currently without a home. "We're stymied," Bradley said. "Hepairs may only take a week, and if that's the case I'd like to 

~ELECTIONS 
1996 RUNOFF RESULTS 
• Badin and Cavanaugh led the voting turnout with 76.2% and 70.9%, respectively. 
I f,Ailler/Murray were most helped by convincing wins in North and South Quads. 
Voter Turnout 44.40o/o Mod 1042 

"' Off Campus 85 Absentee 68 Total Votes 3641 
hang the exhibit again." 
Should repairs take longer, Bradley said he would consider rehanging the exhibit in the rotunda and leaving it up for a longer period, because ade­quate space for such an exhibit is hard to find. 
"We're looking for public places with security and proper lighting, but they are scare," he said. Concerns like ultraviolet rays from sunlight factor into any placement decision, said Bradley. 
The incident is a tough break for the Snite because the pieces in the exhibit are rarely dis­played publicly, said Bradley. "We don't have enough wall space in our current gallery for everything we have, so it was an opportunity to put out some of our better pieces," said Bradley. 
The Observer/Christooher Mullins 



Gramm exits race after poor showing in Iowa 
By KEVIN GALYIN 
Associate.! Press 
WASIIINGTON 

Texas Sen. Phil Gramm dropped out of the l!epublican presidential race today, de­clining to endorse front-runner Bob Dole but taking a slap at his chief rival in New Hampshire, Pat Buchanan. 
"Our party cannot follow the path of protectionism," Gramm told a Capitol Hill news confer­ence announcing his withdraw­al in the aftermath of a weak showing in Iowa's GOP caucus­es on Monday. 
"There always has been a recessive gene in the American character that has found pro­tectionism appealing," Gramm said, a poke at Buchanan, who has made his opposition to free trade agreements a keynote of his campaign. 
Gramm, once considered Dole's chief rival for the nomi­nation, said he had gotten the message from his poor showing in Iowa and, before that, in Louisiana. 
"When the voters speak, I lis­ten," he said. 
Gramm said he had no plan now to endorse another candi­date. Front-runnnr Dole called him earlier today from New Hampshire but said he had not asked for Gramm's endorse­ment. 
"I enjoyed every day of this campaign," Gramm said. "Some days I enjoyed it better than others." 
When he walked into the room, supporters gave him a noisy welcome. Gramm looked around and asked, "Where were all you guys in Louisiana and Iowa?" 
lie had bragged he would win the Louisiana eaucuses two weeks ago where Buchanan was his only rival. lie finished a poor second. Then came Iowa, and he finished so weak that he was doomed. 
"When you run fifth in Iowa, an important state, you would have to l.Je brain dead not to take a look at where you are and what you're doing," Gramm told reporters bllfore abruptly cancnlling afternoon campaign events Tuesday and leaving New Hampshire. 
Gramm, 53, beeame the third candidate to quit the race. California Gov. Pete Wilson had a short-lived campaign, and Pennsylvania Sen. Arlen Specter quit late last year. Wilson and Specter now sup­port Dole. 
Gramm, who had spent at least $19 million in the race, said he was not quitting for lack of money. "I'm in the black," he said. 
If he had stayed in the race, observers said, he would have jeopardized his chances of re­election to his Senate seat in Texas. 
"It is my goal now to become a great senator," he said. 
He ended with a laughline: ''I'm tired of corning home late at night and having my own dog bark at me because he doesn't know who I am." 
In advance of Gramm's an­nouncement, Tnxas GOP Chairman Tom Pauken noted, "If he's not going to be able to turn it around, then the smart thing to do is simply to pull out and concentrate on the Sen­ate." 

page 2 The Observer • INSIDE Thursday, February 15, 1996 
• INSIDE COLUMN 



Cigarette butts and a revelation 
I like to walk back 
Brian Blank 
from the dining hall 
Assistant Graphics 
and have an after din­
Editor 
ner smoke just so I can flick the butt into the grass right before I get to the sand filled 
ash-bucket at the front door ofGrace Hall. 
It seems that some people on campus actually think this way. Maybe it is just habit, or a testimony to the effects of a throw-away society. Whichever the case, I still see cigarette butts all around the entrance to my dorm, just a few feet from the ash-bucket, and empty cans and other assorted trash littering the campus. 
The students of Notre Dame pride them­selves on community service projects, com­mitment to social awareness and ethical training, but actions (or lack there oO speak louder than words. Why does Recyclin' Irish have such a hard time find­ing volunteers for the student run recycling efforts on campus? 
It is our turn now. It is time to re-evalu­
ate our attitudes about the world around 
us. We need to move away from the dis­
posable society mentality and develop a 
more non-destructive attitude toward the 
environment. 
At a Catholic institution, it is especially 
troubling to find such an apathy towards 
the environment. The western world has 
consistently lacked compassion for the 
environment. This stems mainly from the 
outdated religious view of man's domi­
nance over everything in the world, as 
granted by God in the first book of the 
Bible. 
I do not wish to debunk the Bible from its 
place in religion. Throughout my entire 
life, I have been taught to follow the teach­
ing found in the Bible and respect the wis­
dom found there, but on this subject I won­
der if something is missing or got lost in 
the translation. 
I am not the first to think this way about 
religion's role in the environmental move­
ment. I came across this idea while read­
ing Father Thomas Berry's book, The 
Universe Story. Father Berry is a major 
proponent of a new understanding of the 
universe. He is an eco-theologian, portray­
ing the logic and understanding of modern 
science in a religious and almost mystic 
light. 
Berry calls us to rethink our religious 
views on creation and the universe and to 
incorporate the ideas being produced by 
our modern sciences. He does not suggest 
that we throw out any aspect of our 
Catholic faith. He simply wants us to 
rethink it! We must rewrite the story in 
modern terms that will finally end the dis­
crepancy between scientific and religious 
accounts of creation and the evolution of 
the human being. 
The universe is constantly in progress, it 
is in a continuing state of becoming. The 
universe itself is revelatory. If we incorpo­
rate our contemporary understanding of 
the universe, perhaps we can develop a 
more ecologically minded world. 
Open your mind to the possibility of a 
new and fresh understanding of the world. 
It may shock you to look at some of the 
things you take for granted. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer . 
•  TOI)AY'S STAfF  
News Heather Cocks Bill Connolly  Viewpoint Meghan Smith  
Sports Mike Day Meghan Kunkel  Production Melissa DeRosa Jackie Moser  
Graphics Chris Mullins  Lab Tech Brandon Candura  

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
• WORlD AT A GLANCE 

Boulder blasted apart in Japanese tunnel cave-in rescue 


Man convicted in mail bombing 
WILMINGTON, N.C. 
A man was convicted Wednesday of mailing a pipe bomb that blew off several of his wife's fingers and injured one of her co-workers. Jurors also found Stephan Bullis guilty of sending a second bomb to his wife's office building. That one was discovered in a mail bin and detonated after his arrest. Tracy Bullis smiled as the verdict was read, then sobbed quietly, along with Judith Harrison, the co-worker who was slightly injured. She had cried in court last week when she removed a glove to show her mangled hand. Bullis, 31, remained motionless. His public defender said he would likely be sentenced to life in prison, plus 40 years. He also faces a possible $1.5 million fine. "Life means life in federal court," attorney Michael Howell said. Prosecutors said Bullis was a cold, calculating man who was having an affair and bombed his wife July 10 after her life-insurance benefits were increased. They also said he faked his tears on the witness stand when asked his reac­tion to seeing his wife's mangled hand for the first time. At the time of the bombing, the couple had been married five years and Mrs. Bullis told investigators she thought their marriage was a happy one. 
Gulf War report implicates Pentagon 
WASHINGTON 
The Pentagon has complicated investigations into Gulf War illnesses by its poor record-keeping, delayed out­reach programs and faulty chemical and biological war­fare equipment, a presidential committee said Wednes­day. The Presidential Advisory Committee on Gulf War Veterans' Illnesses, in an interim report, also said re­search into the health problems of Persian Gulf veterans needs to be better coordinated and veterans need to be kept better informed. President Clinton set up the 12­member committee last year to review the broad range of issues surrounding the health problems that have af­flicted thousands of veterans of the 1991 war with Iraq. Deputy Defense Secretary John White, in a statement, said the Pentagon appreciates the "constructive input" of the committee and said many of its recommendations are being carried out. 
TOKYO 
Rescue workers used power shov­els Wednesday to begin digging toward 20 people trapped in a tunnel that collapsed when a boulder the size of a 20-story building slammed into it. 
Distraught relatives, many of whom have kept vigil near the tunnel entrance since the collapse Saturday, said they feared anyone who sur­vived the cave-in will already have frozen to death. 
It took four dynamite blasts over four days to reduce the rock to rub­ble that could be cleared away. Rescue workers promised Wednesday to keep up efforts to reach the bus and car trapped inside. 
"We think that we can speed up the pace of the operations from now on," said Yoshiaki Abe, director of the road maintenance division at the Hokkaido Development Bureau, which is leading the rescue effort. 
Rescuers had feared that prema­turely entering the tunnel to remove debris might trigger another land­slide. 
But even with the boulder gone, officials said it could take several 


Clinton announces drug conference 
WASHINGTON 
President Clinton will convene a national conference in early March to design a campaign to reduce drug­related violence among the young, the White House announced Wednesday. The announcement of the forum, which has been in the works for months, came one day after the chairman of the Senate Judiciary Committee, Sen. Ordn 


Hatch, R-Utah, said the government's war against drugs is in retreat with Clinton bearing part ofthe blame. Clin­ton also has put too much emphasis on treating hard­core users and not enough on law enforcement, Hatch told a Drug Enforcement Administration conference called to discuss the growing popularity of methampheta­mines, or "speed." "Although the senator says treatment doesn't count, let me remind him that treatment is not for the benefit of the addict; it's for the benefit of society to keep them away from their drug habit -committing more crimes," Rahm Emanuel, the White House director of special projects, said Wednesday. 
Physician mistakes doll for fetus 
STAMFORD, Conn. 
A medical training doll found along a darkened road­
side was too realistic for an assistant medical examiner: 
He mistook it for an aborted, partially frozen fetus and 
declared it dead. Police found the doll after a passerby 
called Sunday. It was covered with sand and gravel and 
one of its arms was severed. Assistant Medical Examiner 
Henry Minot was called to the scene, and sent the tiny 
body to the state Office of the Chief Medical Examiner in 
Farmington for an autopsy. Minot said both he and police 
were fooled. "This was obviously something that had 
been at the side of the road through a snowstorm ... and 
it looked enough like a fetus so that we thought it was," 
Minot said Wednesday. The state's chief medical exam­
iner, Dr. Wayne Carver, said the silicon rubber doll was a 
training manikin made to resemble an anatomically cor­
rect fetus. "It's not a doll you would buy for kids. 

Thursday, Feb. 15 AccuWeather'" forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 

The AccuWeather<~~torecast for noon, Thursday, Feb. 15. 
lines separate high temperature zones for the day. 
COLD WARM STATIONARY 
0 1996 Accuweather, Inc. 
Pressure 


HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS Fl.URRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY Pt Cl.OUDY CLOUDY 
V18 Assooated Press 

Atlanta 47 37 Dallas 50 28 New O~eans 52 45 Bahimore 36 28 Elmont, NY 39 26 New York 36 25 Boston 35 23 Los Angeles 69 58 Philadelphia 38 30 Chicago 21 12 Miami 80 65 Phoenix 7g 55 Columbus 29 18 Milwaukee 23 17 St. Louis 27 20 
The rescue has dominated national news coverage. Media trucks have descended on the accident scene and on the nearby fishing village of Furubira, home to many of the 19 passengers on the bus. 

...------------------~-------­
Thursday, February I5, 1996 The Observer • NEWS page 3 

Haitian election dubbed 'well-run' 

By MATf GAREAU 
News Writer 
Low voter turnout in the recent llaitinn presidential eleetion was overshadowed by the pcactlful and free nature of the election. according to Sister Sally Brickner, a mem­bor of the organization Witness for Peace. 
Brkkner spoke at the lies­burgh Center for International Studies on Wednesday, shar· ing her first-hand observa­tions of the election which led to the first peaceful transfer of power in Haiti in over 200 years. 
Briekner was one of nine­teen members of the non­profit organization Witness for Peace invited to observe the December presidential elections in Haiti. Among their duties were the process­ing of ballots at the polling places, observation of voter turnout, and keeping a close watch for any signs of force or coercion. Tho group was required to report all findings to the official eltlction commit· tee. 
"The election itself seemed to be very well run," com­mented Brickner. "Howfwer, there was really very low voter turnout. Only about 28% of eligible voters cast bnl· lots." 
This was the seventh Haitian election In seven months. The large amount of elections over a short time period may have contributed to a low voter turnout. 
According to Brickner, other factors affecting voter turnout include ignorance of the importance of casting a ballot and the Jack of radical changes in the struggling economy following past elec­tions. However, the most important reason may have been that. President-elect Rene Preval's victory was con· sidered a foregone conclusion. 
Brickner firmly believes that the peaceful election indicates that there is hope for a better future in Haiti. "Haitians seem determined to rise from their ashes," she said. 
The Caribbean island has been rocked with political and economic turmoil in recent years. Preval will replace the popular Jean-Bertrand Aris­tide, who came to power ten years ago after toppling dicta­tor Jean-Claude Duvalier. "Under the rule of Duvalier, there was much repression of the people," asserted Brick· 
see BRICKNER/ page 4 


4 
" TIIE POSTMAN' DELIVERS!" 
llodmJ \,1."'" 'I\\ ltlkl.. I'll' I 
''****' A \VI:\1'1'\G R0\1:\:\CE!'' 
.\fu h.u lloJI.Iol<•l' l<t l\ llll U I \I Ito 111'1 
''Swu: ILY R0\1:\1'\TIC !" 

Academy Award Nomination for Best Picture Friday and Saturday 7:30 and 9:45 pm World Wide Web<http://www.nd.edu/-cothweb/wwwsnite.html> 


Scully celebrates fifty years 
Teacher, rector reaches eleventh year at Notre Dame 
By MATTHEW LOUGHRAN News Writer 
Brother Bonaventure Scully became a member of the Con­gregation of Francis Xavier fifty years agotoday. Scully 

"Brother B," as he is affectionately dubbed by the residents of 

Keenan Hall, has seen many places and worked several jobs in his career as a Brother. 
He has lived in llultimore, New York, Denver and Mem­phis in the latter two cities he served as Superintendent of Catholic Schools. In addition, he was the principal of Our Lady of Good Counsel lligh School in Bethesda, Maryland in the late 1970's. 
His first visit to Notre Dame was during a sabbatical in 1980, but he was asked to return in 1985. llis wealth of experience as an administrator has been well utilized in the eleven years he has served as the Keenan Hall rector. "Brother brings a lot to this dorm. He gets along with all the 
residents very well," said Keenan sophomore Michael Quadrini. 
In addition to these duties, Scully has continued teaching, often inviting his Freshman Seminar class for meetings in the Keenan basement. 
Scully is instrumental in the organization of such campus events as Diversity Day and the Keenan Revue, sacrificing large amounts of his time making suggestions and helping out the student organizers. "Brother is a big help during these events," said Miguel Berastain, a senior who was the director of last year's diversity day. "lie helps us accomplish all that we need done, and is always a source of great ideas." 
• NORTHERN IRELAND 


Britain reacts to IRA bombing 
By SHAWN POGATCHNIK 
Associated Press 
BELFAST 
Beefing up security following an Irish Republican Army bombing last week, Britain an­nounced Wednesday it would deploy an extra army battalion in Northern Ireland. 
The 1st Battalion of the Royal Irish Regiment will be gar­risoned by Friday in bases along the British-ruled province's bor­der with the rest of Ireland. This was "a precautionary and prudent measure," a senior British army source said on condition of anonymity. 
On Friday, the IRA declared an end to its 17 -month cease­fire and bombed a London busi­ness district, killing two and wounding dozens. The attack poisoned the political atmo­sphere and revived fears of bombings and assassinations in Northern Ireland. 
In Dublin, the government-sponsored Forum for Peace and Reconciliation announced Wednesday it was suspending its weekly sessions because of the blast. 

The forum had been estab­lished a month after the IRA's September 1994 cease-fire to bring the IRA-allied Sinn Fein party into mainstream political debate -but only on the understanding that the cease-. fire would last. 
The cease-fire had halted a quarter-century of violence between the mainly Catholic IRA, which wants Northern Ireland to become part of the Irish Republic, and "loyalists" who want the majority­Protestant province remain a part of Britain. 
Government ministers and many other Irish politiCians now refuse to meet Sinn Fein leader Gerry Adams unless he can per­suade the IRA's ruling council to reinstate its cease-tire, a sub­ject aides to Irish Prime 

Holy Cross Associates = 

Presentation and Conversation with Associates recently returned from service in Chile 
Center for Social Concerns Thursday, Feb. 1S; 3:30 p.m. 
ALSO •.. 
Applications and Information about Holy Cross Associates in the USA Application deadline: March 8 Phone: 631-SS21 
Minister John Bruton are expected to discuss Friday with Adams. 
Ireland's previous prime min­ister, Albert Reynolds, met Adams on Tuesday and came away confident that the cease­fire could be resurrected. 
Reynolds told the Irish par­liament, the Dail, that Adams could "get the IRA to return to a full cessation of violence" if the British and Irish governments first charted a new course toward multiparty negotiations on Northern Ireland's future. 
During the cease-fire, Sinn Fein talked with the British gov­ernment for months but never was allowed into negotiations with leaders of Northern Ireland's pro-British Protestant majority. Britain said the IHA had to show its cease-tire was "permanent" by starting to dis­arm first, a move rejected by Sinn Fein as surrender. 
Protestant proposals, backed by Britain, to hold an election to a so-ealled "peace convention" as a way forward have been firmly rejected both by Sinn Fein and the north's moderate Catholic leaders. 
However, llruton, looking ahead to a summit with British Prime Minister John Major, has suggested the Irish government might compromise on the elec­tion idea. 
The extra battalion -about 500 soldiers -will bring British troop strength in Northern Ireland back to more than 17,000, among them the other six battalions of the Hoyal Irish, a locally recruited, predomi­nantly Protestant regiment. 

page 4 The Observer • NEWS Thursday, February 15, 1996 
Clinton associate denies coverup attempt Brickner 
By MARCY GORDON 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
An Arkansas lawyer who vis­ited the White House around the time Hillary Rodham Clin­ton's long-sought legal billing 
records reap­peared said today he didn't discuss Whitewater­related mat­ters with her. 
M r s Clinton met 

in August at Mrs. Clinton the White House residence with Alston Jennings, a Little Rock, Ark., lawyer representing a central figure in the Whitewater con­troversy, Arkansas business­man Seth Ward. Jennings testified that he and Mrs. Clinton discussed legal work they had done as ad­versaries in the past, to help prepare the first lady for an anticipated attack "concerning her ability as a lawyer." He said the Clintons' private attorney told him they antici­pated an article would be pub­lished that demeaned Mrs. Clinton's professional exper­tise. "They anticipated some at­tack on the first lady concern­ing her ability as a lawyer," Jennings told a hearing of the Senate Whitewater Committee. During his discussion with the president's wife, he said, "We did not talk in any way about Whitewater" or related matters. It was around the time of 
Jennings' visit that White House aide Carolyn Huber says Mrs. Clinton's billing records, under subpoena for more than two years, inexplicably ap­peared on a table in a book room in the family quarters. 
In addition to Jennings' tes­timony, the Whitewater panel also heard today from Chelsea Clinton's former nanny, Helen Dickey. 
Asked whether she had ever seen the billing records in a room in the family residence known as the book room or anywhere else in the White House, Dickey replied, "Not that I remember." 
The billing records included details of Mrs. Clinton's work on the Castle Grande project ­a matter she had said in a sworn statement she could not remember. 
The White House and Mrs. Clinton's private lawyer have declined to discuss her meet­ing with Jennings, disclosed by The Washington Post last week. The White House told the committee late Tuesday the meeting occurred on Aug. 9, not Aug. 10 as previously reported. 
Federal regulators have called Ward a straw purchaser in a sham real estate project named Castle Grande, which brought millions of dollars in losses to the failed Madison Guaranty Savings and Loan that is at the center of the Whitewater real estate affair. All the funds came from the S&L, while Ward put up no money. 
Madison, owned by a busi­
ness partner of President 
To our favorite 'net ho-





Happy 21sr! 

Clinton and his wife, James McDougal, used Mrs. Clinton's law firm for legal work. 
Dickey, the former nanny, already has been questioned by Whitewater committee investigators about the suicide of former White House deputy counsel Vincent Foster. 
A White House spokesman has said that Republicans' statements about Dickey ­that she supposedly learned of Foster's death hours before White House officials say they were notified -is one of the "wild conspiracy theories" surrounding Foster's suicide. 
At Tuesday's Whitewater hearing, committee Republi­
nor, and R.D. Randolph, his partner in Castle Sewer & Water Co., pressed Clinton to change his mind about legisla­tion that would have allowed small water companies to set their own rates. 
Tucker and Randolph want­ed to raise the water compa­ny's rates, and said that with­out the increase they might walk away from Castle's $1 million debt at Madison. 
A few days before, f:linton had vetoed a bill that was worded to benefit only Castle Sewer & Water. 
He argued it was too narrow­ly drawn. 
continued from page 3 
ner. 

She noted that many of the economic and political prob­lems from the days of Duvalier have not disappeared from Haiti. For instance, Haiti is still one of the poorest nations in the Western Hemisphere, let alone the world. 
However, Bruckner believes that the presence of non-profit organizations such as Witness for Peace will help alleviate this situation. She believes their continued aid will help things run smoothly, providing real hope for change in Haiti's future. 
cans grilled a former Clinton .----------------------------. 
aide about a bill Clinton signed as Arkansas governor after being pressured on the basis of his ties to Madison. 
An April 1987 memo to Clinton from another aide that shows that Jim Guy Tucker, the current Arkansas gover-
The GREis on April13, 1996. 
Are You Prepared? WeAre. 
• 
Umit or 10 Students per Oass 

• 
Free Extra Help 

• 
The Best Instructors 

• 
Satisfaction Guaranteed 



~~CETON 
.,.REVIEW 
Call Today! 800/865-7737 

The Princc:toa Review il: DOt affiliated with PriDCCtoo Univc:rsily or the Educational Testin1 Service. 
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME DEPARTMENT OF MUSIC 

FRENCH BAROQUE CHAMBER MUSIC 
Rameau Marais Leclair Blavet Couperin 
WENDY WILLIS, baroque flute MARY ANNE BALLARD, viola da gamba DARLENE CA TELLO, harpsichord 
WTTH 

JOHN PATRICK MORRISSEY, tenor 
WASHINGTON HALL University of Notre Dame 
Sunday, February 18, 1996, at 2:00 p.m. 
Admission Free; Open to the Public 
Reception following the concert 
For information phone Department of Music Publicity Office 219-631-6201 
Don't let THIS happen again! 


Hey J':lniors!!! 
LaFortune Stu ent Center (219)631-8128 

nforrnatlon Desk Hours 9 AM. -9 PM. (M-F) 
-~ 
We Accept both Visa. Master Card, and Discover 


What does marketinghave to do wiili 
public accounting?
(the answer mayslwck you) 
i!J ERNST&YOUNG LLP and 
Beta Alpha Psi 
present 



"Why I ditcheda.e advertising 
business to devotemyselfto 


marketinga Big 6fum.'' 
Phil Anderson 
Directorof Marketing E'.rxtit & Young <lUcago 

Thursday,Feb~ 15,1996 

Jordan Auditorimn 6:;10p.m. 
AIIfiUSdineSS maio~ wel~me Foo and Soft DrinkslOllowmg 
Thursday, February 15, 1996 
The Observer • NATIONAL NEWS page 5 
• COLOMBIA 

Massacre rocks northwest region, rebel group blamed 
By CHRIS TORCHIA 
Associated Press 
BOGOTA, Colombia 

Gunmen killed 11 banana farm workflrs al'ter pulling them ofT a bus yesterday in a violence-torn region of north­west Colombia. 
Authorities blamed the Hevolutionary Armed Forees of Colombia, a leftist rebel group that is feuding with the army. formtw gtwrrillas and right-wing paramilitary groups. 
The bus was heading to a banana farm whnn gunmen stoppml it at a roadblock near Carnpa, 2XO miles northwest of Bogota, police Col. Libardo Molina told HCN radio. 
The victims, I 0 nwn and a woman. were members of a politi1~al group founded by de­mobilized mbtds, according to Mario Agudelo, leadnr of the group, called llopt~. Peace and Liberty. 
Witnesses said several workers wern wounded when they jumped out bus windows to IJSCapt~. 
One man, 23-year-old Elias Palacio, was shot four times but said he survived because the bodies of other victims fell on him. 
President Ernesto Samper condemned the massacre and ordered security forces to swiftly hunt down those re­sponsible for the attack. 
Samper declared a nation­wide state of emergency in August, partly because of vio­lence in Uraba, a rural region near the border with Panama that has beon the site of sev­eral attacks in the past year. 
Hebels were believed re­sponsible for a similar attack Sept. 20 in which 26 banana workers were killed, and for an Aug. 29 massacre in which 17 men were tied up and shot to death. 
Eighteen people were killed in an Aug. 12 attack on a disco club in Uraba that was blamed on a paramilitary group formed to defend wealthy ranchers against rebel kidnapping and extor­tion. 
• YUGOSUW!A 


Peace accord faces review 
By BARRY SCHWEID 
Associated Press 

WASHINGTON 
The United States and its al­lies will meet Friday in Rome with three Balkan presidents in an effort to shore up com­pliance with the Bosnia peace accord, a senior U.S. official said today. 
Assistant Secretary of State Richard Holbrooke will repre­sent the United States. Russian, German, French, British, Italian and other European officials are expected to attend along with Presidents Alija Izetbegovic of Bosnia, Slobodan Milosevic of Serbia and Franjo Tudjman of Croatia. 
The official. who insisted on anonymity, said an announce­ment would be made shortly in Rome. 
The accords to settle the war, worked out last fall near Dayton, Ohio, are being tested by the feuding parties through slow implementation and seiz­ing of alleged war crimes sus­pects. 
Earlier, four senators led by Bob Dole expressed outrage at reports Radovan Karadzic, the Bosnian Serb leader wanted on war crimes charges, was al­lowed to pass through check­points in Bosnia manned by 
U.S. and other NATO troops. 
In a letter to President Clinton, Senate Majority Leader Dole, R-Kan., and Sens. Joseph 
I. Lieberman, D-Conn., Orrin G. Hatch, R-Utah, and Jesse Helms, R-N.C., asked for an explanation. 
The senators said they do not advocate American and other troops hunting down war crimes suspects. But they said a "see no evil" policy is un­conscionable and contrary to a pledge by Adm. Leighton Smith, commander of the 60,000 peacekeeping troops in Bosnia, to assist in capturing suspects. 
"We would like to know what the NATO investigation into this weekend's incident has revealed," the four senators said. "We are writing to express our outrage." 
The U.S. official who oversees implementation of the Bosnia peace settlement says American and other NATO peacekeeping troops are not required to arrest suspected war criminals. 
Assistant Secretary of State Hobert L. Gallucci also said Tuesday that allied soldiers manning checkpoints in the for­mer Yugoslav republic are not supposed to stop cars carrying civilians to see if suspects are inside. 
"The apprehension of in­dicted individuals is not a mis­sion requirement," Gallucci told a news eonference mainly for foreign journalists. But he said U.S. and other troops in NATO's Implementation Force could arrest any suspected war criminals they happen upon if they decide it is safe to do so. 
Gullucci was responding to -a reporter who questioned why Karadzic and Hatko Mladic, the political and military leaders of the Bosnian Serbs, have not been arrested. Both have been indicted by an international war crimes tribunal in The Hague, the Netherlands. 
Karadzic has traveled from Bosnia to Belgrade several times since the peace accord took effect in December. Last week he traveled from his eastern Bosnian stronghold of Pale to Banja Luka, an Serb-held indus­trial city in western Bosnia. 

CAMPUS MINISTRY ••• •••CONSIDERATIONS 
Confession: Treating Heart Problems 

Heart disease continues to be a major cause of death in the 
U.S. Yet, because of early diagnosis, better methods of surgery, and proper treatment, those who have heart disease may be able to live longer and more freely. 
There is another kind of heart problem which is more prevalent than any other. Symptoms include self-interested ambition, abuse of others, and ignoring people in need. This hardness of heart is called sin. If left untreated, it is deadly. The one tried and true treatment for this problem of the heart is honesty. Honesty that is followed by a commitment to love others and self usually leads a person to live more fully. 
There are various ways to be honest with ourselves and with others. They all require concrete steps. 
One concrete method offered by the Catholic Church is the Sacrament of Reconciliation, also known as the Sacrament of Penance and Confession. 
The Church teaches that speaking honestly and actually saying "I'm sorry"· to another person (in the Sacrament of Reconciliation, this person is a priest) is essential for real healing to take place. The Church teaches that it is important to hear the words "You are forgiven" for real healing and reconciliation to take place. 
It is the Faith of the Church that this is God's way of opening our hearts in order to heal them. It is God's way of removing the obstacles that cause our hearts to be so hard. It is God's way of allowing us to live more freely. It is God's way of helping us to be the kind of people we really want to be, the kind of people God is calling us to be. 
Many people celebrate the Sacrament of Reconciliation here at Notre Dame. At the Basilica of the Sacred Heart opportunities for Confession are at 11:15 a.m. and 5:00 p.m. Monday through Friday, and at 7:00 p.m. Monday through Thursday. 
Let's not leave these problems of the heart untreated. Let us accept God's invitation to live more freely and more generously. 
Fr. Bob Dowd, C.S.C. 

NOTRE DAME FRESHMAN RETREAT #5 
(last Freshman Retreat ofthe school year) 
Friday, February 23 (4:00p.m.) through Saturday (6:00p.m.) OPEN TO ANY FRESHMAN (N.D. OR S.M.C.) 
Applications avai/4ble at: 
All Campus Ministry Offices for more information calll-7800 or 1-5056 

Weekend Presiders at Sacred Heart Basilica  
Sat. February 17 Sun. February 18  5:00p.m 10:00 a.m. 11:45 a.m.  Rev. Patrick Neary, C.S.C. Rev. John Pearson, C.S.C. Rev. Richard Warner, C.S.C.  

. -. --. -·---·-~----~ --­
Page 6 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT Thursday, February 15, 1996 







VIEWPOINT 
Thursday, February 15, 1996 
page 7 


THE OBSERVER 
NOTRF DAME OHICE: P.O. Box Q. Norre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY's OHICE: 309 Haggar, Nmre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1995-96 General Board 
Edi10r-in-Chief john Lucas 

Business Manager  
joseph Riley  
New• Editor ................................ David Tyler  Advt•rtising Managcr...........................John Potter  
Viewpoint Editor ..............M<aghan Smith  Ad Design Manager ......................]en Mackowiak  
Sports Editor .........~ .................. Mike Norbw  Production Man<~ger .................. Jacqueline Moser  
At.:ccnt Editor .........................Kri.o.ta Nannery  Systems Manager ............................ Sean Galla van  
Saint Mary's Editor .................... Patti Carson  Observer Marketing Dircctor ..•....... Pcte Coleman  
Controller ............................................. Eric Lorge  

The Ob..:rver is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre ll~me du Lac •nd Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the adminima­unn of dchr:r instirurion. The news is reported as accurately and objt:ctivdy as possible. Unsigned edi­torials repment the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Vicwpoiru Ediror, Accent EJiror, Phoro Editor, Spuns Ediwr, and Saint Mary's Editor. Comnu·nrarir~. lrucn J.nd ln!Joidc Columns present rh~ views of the aUlhors, and nm necessarily those of The Ohscrvtt. Viewpoint •pace is available to all membe" of the Nurre Dame/Saint Mary's com­munity and to •ll readers. The free exprrssion of varying opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Editor-in-Chief Man•ging Editor/Viewpoint Spun\ Ncw'!t./Phulo Accent/S•int Mary's 
I );&y EJirnr/Produ~.:rion 
( ;cncro&llniCmnation 
Observer Phone Lines 

631-4542  Busine» Office  631-5313  
631-4541  Advertising  631-6900/8840  
631-4543  Systems/Marketing Dept.  631-8839  
631-5113  Oflice Manager  631-7471  
631-4540  rax  631-6927  
631-5303  Viewpoint  E-Mail  Viewpoint.l@nd.edu  
631-7471  Ad E-Mail  observcr@darwin.cc.nd.edu  

• KEVORKIAN KORNER 
One is the loneliest number that you'II ever know 
Yeslflrday, as most of you will remem­ber, was Valentine's Day. I've been reading all my favorite comic strips and columnists, from Mary Worth to Ann Landers, and they all have something to offer on Valentine's Day. The Family Circus will have a syrup-sweet little one­liner. suitable for taping on the wheez­ing frigid aires of the elderly. Sluggo, . 
Josh 

~~-



Ozersky 
.. \\ 
'.1 

too. has sonwthing planned. 
And ynt, for whatever seasonal pegs it gives to my favorite entertainments, I have to say I think Valentine's Day should bn diswntinued. This is a mean­spirited holiday. Some tiny percentage of the population may enjoy it, but con­sider the pmssure and pain it inflicts on tlw mst of us! 
Set asidn the bottomless eruelty of gradtl school valtmtine exehanges, with their cutting exposures. Grim faced, frustrated men sit in Zahm Hall as we speak. staring dcfeatedly at posters of buxom women, and gnashing their teeth at their exclusion from their such boun­ty. 011'-eampus. lonely intellectuals sit in their neal little apartments with cin­der-block bookcases, staring with analo­gous longing at the ethereal features of Calvin Klein's junkie-like models. These men snort their contempt at the crass­ness of capitalism, while they wither within. 
And what of the ladies? Have they btH~n spared the ehagrin of a solo valen­tine by a btmevolent deity? Far from it. Women suffer even more then men, sinee their dorm sisters are the ones who actually receive flowers and candy, which moek their Joss every time they enter the room. Worse still, they are forced to sit on their beds eating cup­cakes, and dreaming about what might have been. 
Brandy. you're a fine girl! 
What a good wife you 
would be! 
But my life, my love and 
my lady 
Is the sea! 

Men, at least, can wall themselves safely behind a faeade of indifferenee once the cursed holiday is over. Oh, I see them making small talk on the steps of LaFortune, or sitting together patheti­cally over their chieken patties at the dining hall. I myself have only recently escaped from this abyss, having rceently beeome engaged. But to the end of my days I will remember the bottomless spite of the have-not. 
But what of the haves? Even people lucky enough to have a stable relation­ship are stressed and pressured by this absurd eustom. As they hover over the bouquets at the florist, or select an appropriate rib-sampler at Oseo, they feel not love and eagerness, but re­sentment, and yes, anxiety. Will she like this one? Can I afford the good one? Why do I have to do this? What the hell do l have to prove, anyway? Such are the thoughts that skiddle on six legs aeross the minds of men. 
And too, here the ladies have an even worse time of it. Why did I only get aza­leas? It's three o clock, already. Is he getting me a valentine, or what? What can I wear to this dance? I don't feel like wearing heels. My monthlies are almost upon me. What the hell is so special about February 14th. anyway? 
I sympathize. As the President used to say, I understand your pain. But consid­er the most unhappy of all the groups tormented by Valentine's Day: the al­most-haves. These are the true losers of February 14th, the tormented souls on the cusp of a good thing, but still unsure and walking on eggshells to avoid falling back into the mass grave they feel about to escape from. Here the thought of a Valentine represents unbearable, asphyxiating, deep sea-intensity pres­sure. Is it too much, an overbearing, clumsy gesture. Will she show it to her friends, or, worse yet, to some suave thug whose existence you have long sus­pected but denied? 
And, once again, what of the woman's position? Nowhere is the evil of gender bias more real than here, in the tortur­ous paralysis of a woman waiting, Glass Menagerie-like, for a gentleman caller who will never arrive. Each nervous flash of eye-contact, each carefully­
'But consider the most 
unhappy of all the groups tormented by Valentine's Day: the almost­haves. These are the true losers of February 14th, the tormented souls on the cusp of a good thing, but still unsure and walking on eggshells to avoid falling back into the mass grave.' 
saved e-mail message, each re­membered gesture are carefully built up over time into a pattern of crystalline hope, drawn out in the shape of a valen­tine. And then one doesn't arrive! Holy God! Valentine's Day has got to go. 
If only we could permanently maim the holiday. Reduce it, flatten it, make it an oecasion for ironic jibes. Gag cards. For example, I might write to Pieder Beeli, 
Roses are red, 
And sweet as a grape 
Too bad for you 
Your father's an ape 
And "HAPPY VALENTINE'S DAY!" in cursive seript underneath. Or perhaps our proud Notre Dame sports tradition could be crossbred with a revamped Valentine's Day. "You told me I eould be part of the next national ehampion.. . " a card from a reeruit to Coach Holtz might begin, and then eontinue inside with, "so I went to Ohio State. Happy Valentine's Day." 
The problem with such sarcasm, of course, is that it does so little to blunt the hurt of rejeetion and longing which arc the leitmotifs of life in co-ed univer­sities. Perhaps we could amend the eur­rent Valentine's Day tradition in the way I have suggested, that is, sending smoked rib tips in plaee of eandy. This would add a bestial, carnal flavor to the spirit of the thing, balancing its prepu­beseent sentimentality with a little manichean reminder of our grosser natures. 
Instead of dim lights and a clumsy, heartbreaking danee to the mellow sounds of Boyz II Men, young hearts could fervently grasp each others biceps, shouting ribald encouragement or the lyrics to Nine Inch Nails songs. And yet, somehow, this seems inappro­priate to me too. 
Perhaps the best answer to the emo­tional bloodbath that is Valentine's Day is to send a terse e-mail message if you have a boyfriend or a girlfriend, and to not go outside if you don't. Just put some water on for dehydrated hash browns, turn on the radio, and drink something bracing as the song plays on 103.9: 
One is the loneliest number that you'll ever know ... 
Josh Ozersky is a graduate student in History. His e-mail address is Joshua.A. Ozersky 1 @nd. edu 

•  DOONESBURY  
So how much is my true identity worth to you, Mr. Hedley? Shall say $25,000?  ~ certainly shall not! This is a high­ly respected news organization -­we do not sources!  

GARRY TRUDEAU 

If it's cash-for­tra~h you're after, try some other shop! Our integrity is not 
for sale! -~--~~.. 
• QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"lean resist everything except temptation." 
-Oscar Wilde 


page 8 
Thursday, February 15, 1996 
• ALBUM REViEW 
Love may be dead~ but Mr. T lives 
. 


Brooks brings unique perspective to SLF 
Brooks distills and crystallizes life in her poetry from a perspective fundamentally shaped by her racial heritage. Identifying herself primarily as a member of the black community and secondarily as a poet, Brooks says she feels a strong obligation to write from and for this community. Rejecting the label "African-American" because she believes it excludes those members of the black community who are not American, Brooks frequently writes about the lives of blacks in American cities. Blazing a trail for her successors, Brooks was the first black poet to receive the Pulitzer Prize and was the first female black poet to be named poetry consultant to the Library of Congress. 
A strong proponent of poetical revisions, Brooks has carefully cultivated a style all her own. While her lit­erary influences and "admirations" are as wide rang­ing as Chaucer and Emily Dickinson, Brooks is con­scious of creating her own voice and avoids echoing the voices of those she admires. Her voice has emerged in over twenty-five collections of poetry and fiction, and in her two-volume autobiography. Brooks' latest work, entitled "Report From Part Two," was published last month. Well into her seventies, Brooks continues to speak with a powerful poetic voice. 
Although she says she is intrigued by the distinctly modern musical form of rap, Brooks does not embrace certain other modern mediums, including television and video. Those who attend the Festival tonight will note that, unlike the previous readings, Brooks' reading will not be filmed, at her request. The consummate poet of the real, Brooks believes that television and video "demystify" and project authors as "images." 
In a society which at times seems obsessrd with image rather than substance, the poetry of Gwendolyn Brooks assumes even greater importance. Brooks creates poems which speak of the truth and realities of modern life, yet her work is generally imbued with a strong sense of hope. Her poetry is as candid and aware as Brooks herself, and the Sophomore Literary Festival welcomes her back with admiration and anticipation. 



Mr. T Experience 
Love Is Dead 
Lookout! Records 
out of five 
**** 
By BRENT DICRESCENZO Music Critic 
cross campus, nestled between the jewel boxes of Bootie and Rusted Root, are copies of Green Day's Dookie. Throw them out. Trade them in. Barter them to uckers for a copy of the new Mr. T Experience album, Love is Dead. But it is 

By SARAH CASH ORE Assistant Accent Editor 
P
oetry really is life. It is life sifted through a strainer," Gwendolyn Brooks writes in her "Young Poets' Primer." Throughout her long and successful career as one of the best-known poets of the twentieth century, Gwendolyn Brooks has sifted and sorted life through her own unique and incompa­rable fashion. 
Brooks, who will share her poetry tonight at the Sophomore Literary Festival, began writing poetry at age seven. Her first book of poems, "A Street in Bronzeville," was published in 1945. Visiting Notre Dame for the first time since reading at the 1973 Sophomore Literary Festival, Brooks returns having been honored with a Pulitzer Prize in 1950 for "Annie Allen," two Guggenheim Fellowships, the 1989 Frost 
·Medal of the Poetry Society of America, the 1994 National Book Foundation's Medal for Distinguished Contribution to American Letters, and more than 70 honorary degrees. 
Brooks' accomplishments as a poet have also extended into the public sector through her involve­ment as poetry consultant to the Library of Congress and as Poet Laureate in 1985. The advisory board of the National Endowment for the Humanities also chose Brooks to deliver the prestigious Jefferson Lecture in 1994. A lifelong resident of Chicago, Brooks currently serves as Illinois' Poet Laureate, a position she has held since 1968. 
In addition to sharing her poetical abilities in offi­
cial capacities, Gwendolyn Brooks continues to be an 
active voice as she travels around the country, bring­
ing her gift to not only colleges and libraries, but also 
hospitals, prisons, and drug rehabilitation centers. 
Through her poetry, Brooks consistently expresses a 
strong social conscience and her actions support her 
words. 
Describing the role of poet and poetry, Brooks says, 
"A poet is a person who distills life and crystallizes 
experience which he holds in his hand. Prose is sur­
vey. Poetry is siren." 
unjust to compare the Mr. T. Experience to Green Day. In fact, Green Day should be compared to the Mr. T. Experience. After all, Billie Joe was mopping the floors of the legendary Gilman Street Club in Berkeley when the Mr. T. Experience began playing there in the mid-eighties. 
Dr. Frank has been the only steady member of the Mr. T Experience since those early days. Apparently, he's the only one who can fully comprehend the phenome­non that is Mr. T, for he writes all the music and lyrics to the songs. At times in the past Dr. Frank could come up with some funny songs, some catchy songs, and some rocking songs, but on Love Is Dead, each tune is a mix of all of these styles. In addi­tion, the stripping of the band to three piece adds enormous power to each song. The overlaid surf-influenced guitar lines of past albums have been left aside; only one guitar remains. As compensation for this loss, the lead power-chords are cranked high and each song bounces and crunches along. 
Unlike Green Day, who borrow (steal?) from the Buzzcocks, the Mr. T Experience leans more towards the Beach Boy spectrum of pop, as heard in songs like "Ba Ba Ba Ba Ba." Unlike past line-ups, the new rhythm section contributes to the vocal melodies. Joel, the bass player, backs up each song, echoes the lead vocals and oc­casionally sings lead. The new voice styling appears most obviously in "Thank You (For Not Being One of Them)." These vocal hooks float the Mr. T. Experience above the flood of other generic pop-punk bands on MTV. Even better, Dr. Frank doesn't try to sound British like that Billie Joe. 
Every time Green Day's "Basket Case" plays every blue blazer/black dress bedecked student stops dead in their tracks to sing the opening lines as some sort of ritualistic anthem. Yet how many of our generation can honestly relate to paranoia and being institutionalized? An anthem should reflect some sort of reality for the majority and not some pretentious angst that no one can relate to. 
In contrast to Green Day's "Basket Case," any of the tunes on Love Is Dead would work as an immediate anthem replacement. Perhaps the bungling-boy-falls-head­over-heels-for-uninterested-girl song called ''I'm Like Yeah, But She's All No" would do. Or how about the satirical anti-depressant ode, "That Prozac Moment" with the lines "''ve already wasted half a life-time or so if I change my mind how would I know? I need a Dr. Frank-ectomy though and hope it never grows back-pass the prozac?" 
The lyrics on Love Is Dead are penned in a language more common than typical rock lyrics. They are the words of a twenty-something musician raised on a steady diet of pop culture-someone who can't find that special someone, or has lost that special someone, or can't be with that special someone. 
However, the Mr. T Experience are not just whimpering bachelors. In fact, they don't really take themselves all too seriously. The Mr. T Experience properly keep their collective ego in check on the song "Dumb Little Band." Dr. Frank sings, "The guy at the bar says he thinks we're okay/ We kind of remind him of Green Day/ But it's a dumb little band and there's not much to say." Just when the wet rag of the pop-punk genre seemed to have been rung dry, the Mr. T Experience offers hope. Now, let's just hope they can hold the current roster for more than one album. 


Thursday, February 15, 1996 
page 9 
• ALBUM REVIEW 
AIbums like this • • • 


Soraya sbland mixture of cliches falls flat "On Nights Like This." 

W~NJ? Top 201
,ffi'( 
CL£22& 
1. 
Smashing Pumpkins -Mellon Collie and the Infinite Sadness 

2. 
Jewel -You Were Meant for Me 

3. 
No Doubt -Tragic Kingdom 


4. Possum Dixon -Star Maps 
5. Indigo Girls-Bury My Heart at Wounded Knee 
6. 
Tori Amos -Boys for Pete 

7. 
22 Brides -Beaker 


8. 
Oasis-(What's the Story) Morning4 Glory? 

9. 
Radiohead-Just (for college) 


10. Tripmaster Monkey -Practice 
..,..,. 
Applications 
11. The Presidents of the U.S.A. -self­titled 
12. 
Iodine -Maximum Joy 

13. 
Folk Implosion· The Folk Implosion 

14. 
Saturday Morning~ Cartoons' 




as tlwn~ was to the Presley-Jackson union. While Sade can get away with an obsessive concern 
Sonwtinws routine songs can be endowed with per­with the romantic realm, Soraya hasn't got the talent sonality hy virt1w of the quality of the vocals, but to carry it off. unfortunately, that isn't tlw case here. Soraya's voice 
-by Tim Bayne

is pleasant hut uttnrly unremarkable. The good people 
T 
lwrn afl~ a pletho­
ra of groups cur­
rnntly out there who have been raised listm1ing to their dads' BHatlns l.l''s and moved on to discover Torn Potty and other litH­Southern rockers in tlwir tenns. The differ­IHJces lwtween these groups is usually found in the amount of reverb in their guitars. 
Enter Siberia, nei­tlwr the latest or the grnatest of the new gui­tar-rocktli'S. Their new album, Damage, opens with a dreadfully unrevolutionary bluns­based piece of grunge ealled "Same Old Story." For a twist, sing11r Handi Farmer sings in a talky, dntaehod, Lou Heed­inspired hum leaving vnry littln to elwnr about. 
]."arnwr is orw of the most annoying things about Sihnria. In many of tlw songs she sounds as if she really could not eare loss. The most haplt~ss song on the album is a rnrnakn of and intense. "Black Car" switches from the three-beat to a four­beat major key bridge featuring guitar and strings while the listen­er waits with held breath for something to happen. "Underground" opens with just haunting gui­tar and Farmer's rare emotionally involved vocals. 
The best song on the album, and the best song on any disc released in 1996, is "Peter." Farmer shows you what can happen when she is intense while guitarist John West keeps it subtle­his best level-and the production sounds like a rainy evening in December. Farmer cares about this song and it is the best song no one will hear this year. 
Siberia is more tha.n 
capable of greatness, if 
they could just put it 
together for twelve 
songs. Until they do,
out of five 
listen to "Cowboy Trip" 
*** 
to perfectly encapsu­
Tl:\~ 'r~]?;~~l 
1. Joan Osborne -Relish 
2. 
Bush -Sifteen Stone J! 

3. 
Seven Mary Three -American Standard 

4. 
Smashing Pumpkins -Mellon Collie & The Infinite Sadness 


5. Alanis Morissette -Jagged Little Pill 
6. Oasis -(What's the Story) Morning Glory? . 
7. Kenny Shepherd-~dbetter 
8. Enya w Memory of Trees 
9. 
Beastie Boys-Aglio and Olio 

10. 
Natalie Merchant -Tigerlily 

11. 
Goo Goo Dolls -Boy Named Goo 


12. NOFX-Heavy Petting 
13. Rolling Stones • Stripped 
14. 
Reservoir Dogs Sou~dtrack 

15. Melissa Etheridge -Yollr Little. Secret 


16. Rusted Root ~When I Woke 
17._ ~~twi.~-~ain:~ Woman in Me 18,,.Van , ' ·son -How umg Has This 
0~J),~en On.? 1'1!,~. C.JO Exhale Soundtrack 2t)j!f'R.; By -seJt:titl~d 
:....;\; . : ~ 
.:=.,; 
·< 
_Traqks Top 20 is compiled]rom Tracks srecords, week ending 2113.. 

Af
wr Van 
Morrison's truly 
wful /Jays /.ike This eo rn ns So raya's UnSJHHLkahly bland On 
Nights /.ike This. 
Plnasantrwss was rwver so painful, nien was rwvnr so nasty. Nothing about Soraya is ol'f'nn­sivn except lwr eorn­pldn lack of ofTnnsive­ru~ss. She rt~works evnry rliehe in the (;n~at Big Book of I low to Writn a Mega-selling Pop llit. No doubt you'll hn hnaring this album on 1wery radio station, in 1wnry nlnvator and on every anodyrw sit­com hnl'orn the wnnk is out. 
Sure. Llw songs stkk in one's lwad hut that donsn't make this qual­ity art; it just nwans that Soraya has the lurrativ1~ knack of idnn­ti fyi ng a good hook for. what it is. UnforturHLtldy a good hook d1H~S not a song make. Nor can Sl~arn­lnss and pristine pro­duction hidn the fact that then~ is as much suhstancn to this album at Island Records would have us believe that the influence of Hickie Lee Jones and Joni Mitchell can be discerned in Soraya's vocal delivery. Perhaps they would also have us believe that Rush Limbaugh is the best thing that has hap­pened to Ameriea since Sesame Street. 

But it is with its lyri­cal content that On Nights Like This really puts itself fully and finally outside the pale. Apparently Soraya was an English literature major in college and for some unfathomable reason she seems to think that reading Cervantes and Austin imparts the ability to 

----.....IE-.3-....L.3L.....IIIIo....lilllll write a lyric worth lis­
Soraya 

On Nights Like This 
Tantrum Records 
out of five 
** 
tening to. It doesn't. From "Heason to Believe" comes, "I've been searching for a reason/ I've been searching for a way/ for a reason to believe/ for a way to be set free." Most every track finds Soraya wistfully pinning for lost love. 

"Sugar Sugar," which until reeently was relegated to sugar-substitute commnrcials. llere, Farmer, to her en~dit, can barely bring hersllif to sing. 
Thn most annoying thing about Siberia is their trmnendous potential. There aetually are four songs on Damage that make it worth anyone's while to piek up the CD. Th11se four songs stiek to minor chords, mostly thren-bcat patterns, and Farmer sings like she rnnans it. The results are scary. "Sorry" has an eerie dt~seending guitar pattern that is quietly atmospheric late Siberia-as-we-know-it. Ambient, echo-y, blues­based grunge during the verse, the steam of this song dissipates into soot for the moronic chorus-a blatant Beatles update-and then becomes a disposable blow­off bridge in which Farmer sounds like that dumb girl who always smokes on the corner. Although it is worth waiting for Siberia to grow up, don't make the mistake of waiting too long. 
-by Kevin Dolan 

Alukewarm wind from the North 
Siberia displays budding potential on latest release "Damage. " 
r 
I page 10 The Observer • SPORTS Thursday, February 15, 1996 
I ~ 
I 
The Nets held Ric Smits in check on their way to an 88-87 victory. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and fro!'l 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. 

Classifieds 
Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 

NOTICES 
FREET-SHIRT NATIONAL PARKS HIRING­FAX IT FAST!!! SENIORS SENIORS + $1000 Positions are now available at NEED A PLACE FOR THE SUM­Sending & Receiving Bet you didn't know that 
Credit Card fundraisers for fraterni­National Parks, Forests & Wildlife MER? COLLEGE PARK CONDO­at John Giovacco You're running out of time. So. do ties, sororities, Preserves. Excellent benefits + MINIUMS-8UBLETIING FOR THE COPY SHOP Charlie Krantz the right thing and go see Spike & groups. Any campus organiza­bonuses! Call: 1-206-971-3620 MID-MAY THROUGH AUGUST. LaFortune Student Center Mairin Ocheltree Lee's "CLOCKERS" at Cushing on tion can raise ext.N55845 CALL JEN. NICOLE, OR SARAH Our Fax# (219) 631-FAX1 Scott Johnson Friday and Saturday at 8:00 and up to $1000 by earning AT273-1738 FAX IT FAST!!! Ann Cordero 
10:30 a whopping $5.00/ BIG EAST TICKETS WANTED David Harris 
VISA application. TOP$$$ PAID I need a ride to Cincinnati this Liza Nykiel Take a study break and go see Call 1-800-932-0528 ext. 65. (800)269-5849 wknd. Joe x3790 Kara Spak
FOR SALE

Spike Lee's CLOCKERS on Qualified callers receive Kay/ee Lentine Sunday at 2:00 at Cushing FREET-SHIRT. SUMMER CAMP POSITIONS: SABOR LATINO Brandi Wilson and 
Make a difference in the life of a JUDAY CREEK gem. Saturday 2/17 Sarah Sanchez SPRING BREAK! ???????????????????? child/ Summer therapy camp for Well-maintained, 4-bedroom ranch esc in addition to being very cool people With only 1 week to live, DON'T NEED A PLACE FOR THE SUM­handicapped children. Located on with a 17 x 25 home office 10pm-1 am are also very talented actors. BLOWITI MER? GPSAT APARTMENT TO shore of Lake Superior near Big & 3-car garage. SABOR LATINO Come see for yourself at the Organize group· TRAVEL FREE SUBLET-TWO BATH, TWO BED­Bay, MI. Positions available for $154,900. SENIOR CLASS PLAY Jamaica/Cancun $399 Bahamas ROOMS, ETC. AVAILABLE JUNE Counselors, Waterfront, Instructors Call Karen 272-3653. ~ ~~LESBIAN, GAY Weds and Thurs 7:30 at $359 Florida $109 -AUGUST. for Nature/Arts & Crafts/Recreation, BISEXUAL ? ? ? Washington Hall FREE INFO packet. Call Sunsplash CALL 273-1738. Nurses, Therapists, Food Service, '89 BERETIA, ND/SMC's Premiere Group for Neil Simon's "Plaza Suite" 1·800-426-771 0 ???????????????????? and Auxiliary. Must be enthusiastic, V-6, auto, stereo/cassette, console, Queer Folk will hold a JUST DO IT 
responsible, and love children. June cruise, front-wheel drive, air. GENERAL MEETING All proceeds to benefit the Mandy Cancun & Jamaica Spring Break Help! Anyone who has recordings 16 through August 11. Salary. room Excellent condition, new front tires TONIGHT at 7:30 pm. Abdo fund Specials! 111% Lowest Price or pictures (or negatives) from the & board, and experience of lifetime & exhaust system, and new shocks. Call the Q-Line (287-6665) Guarantee! 7 Nights Air & Hotel Billy Joel lecture please call Mitch provided. Call or write for applica­Call 654-7439 (local call). for location. Tonight...tape "Friends" and watch From $4291 Save $100 On Silver (I played a song on stage) tion and information. Bay Cliff The First, the Original; YOUR friends in the Food/Drinks! http://www.spring­277-2174 Health Camp, 310 W. Washington, Accept no cheap imitations I SENIOR CLASS PLAY breaktravel.com Suite 300, Marquette, Ml 49855, 1991 DODGE COLT Neil Simon's "Plaza Suite" 1-800-678-6386 EX ND STAFFER & WIFE WISH (906)228-5770. *** MINT CONDITION *** $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ 7:30 at Washington Hall 
TO RENT APT. FOR SUMMER. NEW TIRES -NEW BRAKES The Price is Right (Vacca's a better actor than NON-SMOKERS, NO PETS, REF­NEW BATIERY, AIR I AUTO Is Coming! Matthew Perry, anyway)
FOR RENT 
Spring Break! Panama City! 8 Days ERENCES. CALL (941 )425-4404 21DOOR HATCH-March 2 Stepan Room With Kitchen $1191 Walk to OR WRITE 135 LAKEVIEW, MUL­ONE OWNER $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ HA!HA!HA!HA!HA!HA! Best Bars! 7 Nights In Key West BERRY FL 33860 THE POTATO HOUSE 8 BED­$4,800 OR BEST OFFER 259-HAppyJPW! $2591 Cocoa Beach Hilton (Great ROOM FOR NEXT SCHOOL YEAR 1864 Valentine's Day Spectacular! Beaches-Near Disney) $169! CRUISE SHIPS NOW HIRING­ALSO 3-4BEDROOM HOMES Hey all you SAW valentines-Sorry HAl is coming to Washington Hall/ Daytona $1391 http://www.spring­Earn up to $2,000+/month working CLOSE TO ND GOOD AREA DATA/FAX MODEM 4 SALE I didn't send you sappy India cards The Humor Artists will present an breaktravel.com. on Cruise Ships or Land-Tour com­2773097 Pract Periphs-ilxtrnl 14.4 & serial but some of you-Brittany and Betsy hour of sketches, stand-up and 1-800-678-6386 panies. World travel. Seasonal & cable. Bought for $120 2 mos ago, have gotten enough for all of us! songs! The FREE show will be held 
full-time employment available. No Irish Co. B&B Registry sell for $70. Call Dave x4010 Anyway have a Mirenda on me in Washington Hall at experience necessary. For more Stay at the "MOOSE KRAUSE today-I'll pay ya back. Happy V­7:00 p.m., Friday.
ILOST & FOUND I 
information call1-206-971-3550 HOUSE" or other approved homes. Day (late) XOXO-EIIen BRING YOUR PARENTS! 
ext.C55843 JPW -Grad. -Football games Are You Paying Too Much For Your Found: Sunglasses between Badin 219-277-7003 Auto Insurance? Hey Bad Jeans and the bookstore on 214. Call THE STUDENT UNION BOARD At Farm Bureau Insurance We Tonight...tape "Friends" and watch I heard you sent a Freek a card x1678. IS ACCEPTING Have Extremely Competitive Rates YOUR friends in the yesterday? 
APPLICATIONS!!! ROOMS FOR RENT IN PRIVATE and Discounts For The Following: SENIOR CLASS PLAY Any orange seams? LOST: gold rope chain necklace If you are interested in: planning HOME. -Top Scholar Discounts (ForB Neil Simon's "Plaza Suite" 
somewhere on North Quad or by concerts, running the movie series, VERY CLOSE TO ND. Average) (A Savings Up To 25%) 7:30 at Washington Hall Bon-Bon, the JACC on either 211 0 or 2111. If designing cultural arts events, IDEAL FOR SMC-ND EVENTS. -Multi Car Discounts (Vacca's a better actor than Memphians don't need a Valentine, found PLEASE call x1334. bringing in comedians and lectures, 272-6194. Contact Chris Hermon At Farm Matthew Perry, anyway) they're loved by everyone! 
planning Antostal, the Sophomore Bureau Insurance For Your Free Love the Alternative Intellect Literary Festival, or Collegiate Jazz TURTLE CREEK SUMMER APT Auto Quote 
WANTED 

Festival, SUB WANTS YOU!!!! SUBLET 1BDRM IN 2BDRM APT Why Pay Those High Rates When ! I George and the Freeks I I If you could be a rodent, what kind 
In addition, SUB needs controllers PARTLY FURNISHED $270/MO You Don't Have To? Not going to Mardi Gras? Come would you be? IMMEDIATE OPENING to help handle money, graphic +1/2 ELECTRIC. JUNE THRU If it is long distance to call me in hang out with the Freaks. PART TIME SALES POSITION designers to create advertising, and AUGUST CALL JOHN@634-4131 Elkhart call me and I'll call you right Club 23, Thursday, 15 Feb. NIGHTS AND WEEKENDS anyone interested in PR or rela­back!! 11 :00. Don't waste the night! $5.00 PER HOUR tions. MCKINLEY TERRACE & 295-4488 George and the Freeks: Shenanigans APPLY FAN FAIR, UNIVERSITY SUB is the largest organization on MISHAWAKA 3 BDRM HOMES. perfect for the post Valentine's day JPW PARK MALL campus with opportunities for AVAIL. NOW.272-6551 warm fuzzy feeling. Concerts
TICKETS

everyone, INTERESTED??? Come I ! George and the Freeks ! I 
get an application in 201 Lafortune Rm for Sum/Fall '96, 5-min drive Our Concerts: SUMMER JOBS or call1-7757!!1 $250 incl. util & extras! 1-4809 or NEED: 2 SETON HALL GA TIX. FOR SALE -IBM cmptbl. laptop, • Fun: High Quality Entertainment ALL LAND/WATER SPORTS APPLICATIONS DUE FEB 16 232·7175 CALL CHAD 4-2107. Compaq Contura 4/25dx, 486dx, • More Concerts: We've got two PRESTIGE CHILDERN'S CAMP -8MB RAM, Internal modem, color of them --1 :00 and 2:30pm 
..,. 
ADIRONDACK MOUNTAINS TEACH ENGLISH ABROAD -I need two tickets for the Seton VGA active-matrix screen, only • Campus Unity: Everyone is NEAR LAKE PLACID Make up to $25-$45/hr. teaching BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY Hall game on 2124. 2yrs. old (still under warranty!) invited 1-800-786-8373 basic conversational English 219-291-7153 Please call Maureen @ 4-37211 loaded w/ Excel, Powerpoint, Word, • Free Stuff: Admission is Free! Driving to New Orleans for Spring abroad. Japan, Taiwan, and MS Publisher, and much Break and need someone to share S.Korea. Many employers provide HOMES FOR RENT Need Seton Hall GAs x2895 more, carrying case included. Snite Annenburg Auditorium the ride with x0979 room & board + other benefits. No 232-2595 $1200 o.b.o. -call maria X1573 
teaching background or Asian lan­Saturday, February 17, 1996 Students needed to deliver the guages required. For more informa­Perfect for 2nd Semester PERSONAL I give German lessons. Chicago Tribune to rooms in their tion call: (206)971-3570 ext.J55843 Furnished Student Apts Call273 3856 Researched dorms. Call 684-4302 for more $Cruise Ships Hiring! Students Heat included 0o0o0o0o0o0o0o0c0c0c0 Rehearsed information. Needed! $$$+Free Travel -large 1 bedrm, $345 QUALITY COPIES, QUICKLVI!! You still have my jewelry .... holding Really Fun 
(Ca110bean, Europe, Hawaii!)"' -small 1 bedrm, $270 THE COPY SHOP it for ransom? Did anyone tape Superman's wed­Seasonal/Permanent, No Exper. 755 South Bend Ave-1 blk west of LaFortune Student Center ding? I need to see it!-Meghan Necessary. GDE. 919-929-4398 ext NDAve Phone 631-COPY some people around here are really @1525 C1114 deposit, references 1-800-582-9320 0c0c0c0c0o0o0o0c0o0c0 in bad moods ..... 

Photo courtesy of Indiana Pacers 
----~----~~----~-~­
Thursday, February 15, 1996 
-~-----------­
The Observer • SPORTS 
page II 

•NFL 


Modell, Browns fire Belichick 
Gretzky faces final 

By DAVID GINSBURG higher level of play as soon as A"oriatcd Press we can," Modell said in a statement. BAI.TIMQ!~ E "We've had some success 
Bill Beliehiek was fired as with Bill, including an 11-5 lwad coaeh today as Art playoff team in 1994. Modell began the overhaul of "However, I believe to get to his transplanted Cleveland the next level. a change at Browns franehise. head coach is necessary," he 
said. 

"The move to Baltimore of­Modell was en route to ft)rs us a new beginning, a Baltimore this afternoon and fresh start, and we want to rln not immediately available for nverything we ean to get to a further comment. 
The Browns went 5-11 last season, losing seven of their fi­.---------------, nal eight games after Modell 
Foik Nominations Invited The Reverend Paul J. Foik Award 
Committee invites nominees for the 1 award, which is given annually to a library fpculty member who has contributed significantly to library 
service to the Notre Dame community or to the library profession through personal scholarship or involvement in professional associations. The award is named for the Holy Cross priest who served us director of Notre Dame's library from 1912 to 1924 and was a leading figure in the library profession in the first quarter of the 20th century. It is among those announced at the President's faculty dinner in May. Previous winners have been Maureen Gleason, Deputy Director, Robert I lavlik. Engineering Librarian emeritus, Joseph Huebner, llead of Collection Development. Rafael Tarrago, Latin American Studies Subject Librarian and Janis Johnston. Associate Director, Law Lihrury. All members of the l /niversity I.ibraries' and Law Library fitculty with two or more years' tenure arc cligihle. Please send names of nominees. including justification, to the Reverend Paul J. Foik Award Committee, % Donald Sniegowski, J56 O'Shaughnessy I lull. by April 4. 
announced his intention to take the franchise to Baltimore. 
It was Cleveland's fourth los­ing season in five years under Beliehick. 
Belichick, 43, was 37-45 
with the Cleveland Browns. He took over the Browns in 1991 after 12 seasons with the 
days with Kings

New York Giants where he 
rose to defensive coordinator. He went 6-10 in his initial sea­son at Cleveland. 
After two straight 7-9 sea­sons, the Browns soared into the playoffs in 1994 behind a defense that surrendered an NFL-low 204 points. 
The Browns. a wild-card entry. beat New England before losing to Pittsburgh in the second round. 
Ted Marchibroda, who coached in Baltimore during the 1970s and led the Indianapolis Colts to the AFC championship game in 1995, is considered the favorite to re­place Belichick. 
Please Recycle The Observer 
9£)11Y a 

-.=----:E'!I~al ~~chelor 
Where LeMans Hall Lobby When THuRsDAY, FEB. 1s. 7:00PM Admission Free. $1 to bid 
Sponsored by:

-~­
LeMans Hall Council 


SAINT & Bengal Bouts MARY'S Proceeds go to 
COLLEGE 
NOTf(E DAM F., lN 
Holy Cross Mission in Ban ladesh 
In New York, Grotzky's pos­sible trade to the Rangers made headlines Wednesday. 
"Gretzky-to-Rangers Talk May Not Be Just Rumors," The New York Times said. 
"Will N.Y. Be Wayne's World?" asked the New York Post. 
Playing in Now York would offer Gretzky a high-profile market and a chnnce to play for a Stanley Cup contender that includes former Edmonton teammates Mark Messier and Kevin Lowe. 
The Rangers also art> one of the few teams with enough money and trade bait to lure Gretzky. 
But the team wasn't com­menting Wednesday on a pos­sible exchange that would send center Ray Ferraro and left wing Luc Robitaille to Los Angeles. 
"Right now, Wayne Gretzky is still the property of the Los Angeles Kings, so we have nothing to say," Rangers spokesman Rob Koch said. 
And what about the other teams reportedly interested in Gretzky? 
Gretzky, 35, says he wants to play for a contender, which should eliminate lowly Anaheim. 
Philadelphia has the money and is a top team, but Gretzky reportedly doesn't get along with Flyers star Eric Lindros. 
Associated Press 
Wayne Gretzky's days with the Los Angeles Kings appear to be numbered. But where is ho going? 
An NHL source said Wednesday he thinks the Kings will deal the Great One before the March 20 trading deadline . 
"I do believe he will go," said the source, who asked not to be identified. "It's a deal that needs to be made." 
However, Gretzky's agent said a tradn wasn't imminent. While Gretzky was in Buffalo on Wednesday, agent Mike 
Barnett was traveling to Toronto for a junior game. 
"If something was going on, I would be going to Buffalo," Barnett said. 
Gretzky, who will become a free agent after this season, was scratched from Wednesday night's game against the Sabres with a hip pointer. The injury occurred in Tuesday's 9-4loss to Detroit. 
Meanwhile, the Gretzky trade rumors continued. 
The New York Rangers and St. Louis Blues have already expressed interest in the NHL's career scoring leader. Other teams reportedly In the hunt are the Chicago Blackhawks, Anaheim Mighty Ducks, Philadelphia Flyers and Toronto Maple Leafs. 
Happy 21st

r--------------------------------------, 
Birthday, 
David G.!

[})~CQ>W[] ill~&~ 
HOURS: Monday-Thurtday 7:00a.m. to I0:00p.m. • Friday 7:00 a.m. to 8:00 p.m. • Saturday 9:00a.m. to 7:00 p.m. • Sunday 9:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. 
Good Luck in Syracuse!! 
I

1 Month for $29 
I 
NOTRE DAME 2.77-1166 

Walftine Distance from N.D. 
Mu•r be IH or older. One per cuMtomcr. Nul v;ali..l with any llther nffcr. Expirctl 2/25/lJ6 

L 
tvou'll always be ~,,a WINNER 
... . .  "·with us.\  
\Love,  
Mom&  
\Dad  

presents: 
THURSDAY COLLEGE NIGHT 
Featuring: 
ELSIE'S PROMISE 
LOWER LEVEL 
BoE & BRENDAN AcousTICAL JAM GROUP 
UPPER LEVEL 
• 
With guest Djs playing your favorite Tootsie Roll, Booty Call and Hip-Hop music during band breaks. 

• 
Both Dance Floors Open Until Close. 

• 
Doors open at 9:00 PM. 


$3.00 Admission With Student ID $5.00 Admission Without StudentiD 
Save $2.00 With This Ad Before 11 :00 PM 

I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
~ 
page 12 
The Observer • SPORTS 
Thursday, February 15, 1996 
• Cm.tEGE BASKEnlAu. 
Huskies stomp Mountaineers, earn 22nd straight win 

Associated Press 
STORRS, Conn. 

Doron Sheffer had six 3­
pointers and scored 23 points 
to lead No. 3 Connecticut to an 
87-69 victory over West 
Virginia on Wednesday night, 
the Huskies' 22nd consecutive 
win. 
Ray Allen and Kirk King 
added 13 points each for the 
Huskies (23-1, 13-0 Big East), 
while Rudy Johnson had 12 and 
Travis Knight 10. 
The Mountaineers (9-13, 4­
10) stayed with the Huskies until midway through the first half when Sheffer hit consecu­tive 3-pointers and Knight added a layup to give UConn a 24-16lead with 8:53 left. 
After Gordon Malone dunked, 
King, Ricky Moore and Dion 
Carson combined for five 
straight points to make it 29-18 
on the way to a 45-35 hafltime 
lead. 
The Huskies gradually built the lead to 75-54 with 7:33 left before West Virginia made one final run. Five points by Seldon Jefferson and a dunk by Sandro Varejao made it 79-67, but that was as close as the Mountaineers got. 
Damien Owens had 16 points and nine assists to lead West Virginia, while Jefferson had 14 points, Brent Solheim 13 and Malone 12. 
North Carolina 53 Clemson 48 
CLEMSON, S.C. 

Jeff Mcinnis simply followed his coach's advice to end one of North Carolina's worst slumps of the decade. 
Mcinnis' shot looked awk­
ward, coach Dean Smith told 
him, probably because he was 
changing things each time he 
launched the ball. 
"He said shoot the same way 
every time. That's what you 
have to do," said Mcinnis, who 
scored a career-high 25 points, 
all but one on 3-pointers, and 
No. 17 North Carolina ended its 
three-game losing streak with a 
53-48 victory over Clemson on 
Wednesday night. 
"Things went a little better 
tonight." 
Mcinnis' shooting rescued the 
Tar Heels (17 -7, 8-4 Atlantic 
Coast Conference) when they 
didn't look like a typically efli­
cient Smith club. 
Only five North Carolina play­
ers scored in its lowest offen­
sive performance this year. 
The Tar Heels committed two 
shot-clock violations with the 
game on the line in the last two 
minutes. 
"We've got a lot of work to do," Smith said. "But this is a tough place to break a losing streak so our guys ought to feel very pleased." 
Mcinnis was the most pleased, not because he tied a school record for 3s held by Dante Calabria and Hubert Davis, but because the Tar Heels won. 
It would have only been the second four-game losing streak in the past 31 seasons under Smith. 
"We knew coming in here that it would be the biggest game of the season," Mcinnis said. "We still want to compete for the ACC championship and 

we couldn't do it without a win tonight." 
Terrell Mcintyre missed an NBA 3-pointer with six seconds to go and Clemson trailing 51­
48. The Tigers (14-7, 4-7) lost for the seventh time in 10 games after starting 11-0. 
Mcinnis' seventh 3-pointer gave North Carolina its first lead in more than 12 minutes, 44-42. And after Tom Wideman again tied it with a putback, Mcinnis stroked his final 3 to put North Carolina ahead for good 
"When a guy's on, he's on, 
there's nothing you  can  do  
about it," Mcintyre said.  
Antwan  Jamison  had  12  

points and Shammond Williams 10 for North Carolina. Calabria was held to three points and starting center Serge Zwikker, averaging 10 points, went scoreless. 
Tony Christie had 12 points, all in the first half, to lead Clemson. 
Much was made of Smith's shouting matches with Clemson coach Rick Barnes, but the two shook hands warmly on Valentine's Day and the game went off without a serious argu­ment until after the game. 
Midway through the second half, Barnes yelled at the refer­ees to bring Smith to the scor­er's table. Smith had been ges-· turing with Clemson guard Bill Harder. 
Smith asked Barnes to call him, but the Clemson coach said he wanted to settle it face­to-face. 
"I don't know what the prob­lem is, I really don't," Barnes said. 

Thursday, February 15, 1996 The Observer· SPORTS page 13 
• COLLEGE BASKETBAll 
Pirates hit rough waters with eighth straight loss 
By DAVE IVEY Rutgers and didn't make the Griffin had a layup at the other Associarcd Pross trip. He's listed as day-to-day. end to cut the lead to 75-61 with 2:25 to play but it was too 
VILlANOVA, Pa. Eric Eberz added 15 points little, too late for the Pirates. 
KPrry Kittles scored 25 points for the Wildcats, while Alvin Kittles and Eberz scored 17 of in his final game at the duPont Williams had 13 and Jason Villanova's first 18 points in the Pavilion as No. 4 Villanova won Lawson added 12 points, 13 game as the Wildcats used a 10­its nighth straight, beating Seton rebounds and seven blocks. 0 run to take an 18-11lead with llall 79-67 Wednesday night. Adrian Griffin led Seton Hall 11 :20 remaining. 
Villanova (22-3, 12-2 Big with 22 points and .11 rebounds. 
East) avenged its 78-73 defeat Leading 47-23 at halftime, The Pirates got within 20-15 at Seton Hall on Jan. 17 and Villanova took its biggest lead of on a layup by Sanders, but that handed the Pirates their fifth the game at 56-29 with 16:30 is when Villanova pulled away. straight loss. left on a layup by Williams. Over the next seven minutes, 
Seton IIall (1 0-12, 6-8) played Seton Hall got within 73-59 Seton Hall was outscored 25-4 without senior point guard with 4:46 to go when Levell and trailed by as many as 26 Danny llurlny for a second Sanders made a layup to cap an points. straight game. lie sustained a 8-2 run. Seton llall shot just 30 per­
eoneussion Feb. 7 against After a layup by Williams, cent in the first half and missed 
FLOWERS Flowers, Roses, Balloons, Birthday
DELIVERED 
Cakes, Fruit Baskets,
r.Sl7 DAYSr.Sl 
Plush Animals and Gifts 
~asy tatGh 
Clocktower Square ALL MAJOR CREDIT 
51400 US 31 North Phone Answered South Bend CARDS ACCEPTED 24 Hours a Day 
277·1291 or 1·800·328·0206 
-· --­
-·-­
~-­
/
..:..-) 

Congratulations on 50 
years of service. May you have many more. 
9?eace. 

each of its four 3-point attempts while committing 11 turnovers. 
The Wildcats, led by Kittles' 14 points and 11 by Eberz, was 16-of-31 from the field (51 per­cent) in the opening half. Villanova blocked eight shots in the half, four by Lawson. 

Pholo Counesy of Villanova Spons fnformalion 
Guard Alvin Williams tallied 13 points as Villanova coasted to victory. 
r=MIKE ••~LOOD1 
DAVE MULLIN 
want to thank each of our supporters. 
When we have the money again. we·n take all 441 of you out... 
In the ambulance. 
~Side 
Street Strutte 



THE NOTRE DAME COALITION-TO ABOLISH THE DEATH PENALTY 
presents: 

The Electric Chair and the Chain Gang: Choices and 
Challenges for
Mr. Steven Bright 
Director, Southern Center for Human Rights 
America's Future 
Professor of Law, Yale Law School 
February 15,1996 7:ooPM DeBartolo Room 102 
Co~Sponsored by: 
Campus Ministry Center for Civil and Human Rights Notre Dame Law School Thomas J. White Center for Law and Government 


I o 
I 
I ~ 
.­
,· 
page 14 
class will be offere«fon.: Monday and Wednesday evenings from 6:30 -7:45 in Rockne Rm. 219. 'All levels 
are wel~ome, but spa.ce· i~ •.. limited.····· You must register . in advance in the RecSports ··· 
office and the fee is $30. For more information. call 1-6100. Open toaliNP dents. · 
Intercollegiate Bowling:' Any students of Notre Dame s· or St. Mary's who are inter"•/ ested in intercollegiate... bowling competition, please· contact Jason 4-1065 •. 
·,~t=·~. ·\/Jk· ::,:i;~f!L:·: women's L~~rosse: Practice schedule"•change beginning February 20 and will now be Tuesday and Thursday at 1Q:J5 p.m;;S Questions? Call Allison at 239-7924. 

If you see sports happening, call The Observer at 1-4543. 

The Observer • SPORTS Thursday, February 15, 1996 

Irish eye upset over Volunteers 
By KATHLEEN LOPEZ Spons Writer 
There is nothing like a little rest and relaxation to get you right back in the swing of things. The women's tennis team has had a little time to re­juvenate for their big match against the ninth-ranked 
Tennessee Volunteers. The Irish face the Vols on their home courts this evening at 7:00. 
"We always 


have .close Hall matches with Tennessee," stated Coach Jay Louderback. "It will be tough, but I think that we can do it." 
Some of the team did not get a chance to fully enjoy thier break. Senior Wendy Crabtree and freshman Jennifer Hall represented the Irish this past weekend at the Rolex National Championship in Dallas. 
ERASMUS BOOKS 
•Used 
books bought and sold 

•25 
categories of Books 

•25,000 
Hardback and Paperback books in stock 

•Out-of-Print 
Search Service: $2.00 

•Appraisals 
large and small Open noon to six Tuesday through Sunday 1027 E. Wayne 


South Bend, IN 46617 (219)232-8444 

Crabtree faced a tough oppo­nent in her first round match and, unfortunately, was dis­missed early from the tourna­ment. 
Hall showed that she is a force to reckon with by lasting four rounds, ending up in the semifinals. Her victory streak ended in the semifinals when she lost to Kansas' Kylie Hunt. 
"They both did well," stated Louderback. "Unfortunately, Crabtree had a tough match in the first round. Hall did ex­tremely well which is good for her. She is a tough competi­tor." 
This is the begining of a tough run for the Irish. They face three extemely talented opponents this week. After today's match against the Volunteers, they take on Alabama Saturday, and then on Sunday, they play Kentucky who is coming off a big upset. 
"These next three matches are going to be big," stated Louderback. "All of these 
STUDY ABROAD 
Semester, Summer and Year Programs 
Ecuador • Spain England • France Canada • Mexico Chile • Italy 


0 8i I 0. 30p.m.Sun. 'D.m. 
0 7.00 
you beHer see me at 
CUSHING, 
teams have the potential to fin­ish in the top 20." 
Once again, the key lies in the doubles' matches according to Louderback. Whoever captures at least two victories in the doubles will be in the driver's seat for the singles. 
The other key to securing the victory in this match against Tennesee is the No. 1 singles match. The Vols No. 1 singles player, Battle, finished in the top ten in the country last year. Crabtree has faced her in the vast, and the matches have been close and hard fought with the results being mixed. 
Yet again, the team will be without the expert play of se­nior Sherri Vitale. Vitale suf­fered an injury a couple weeks ago to her wrist and has been undergoing treatment for the injury. She is listed as doubtful for the other matches this weekend, but the outlook is hopeful. In Vitale's spot, either sophomore Molly Gavin or sophomore Kelley Olson will get the chance for some more 

CLOCK-eRS-FROM Yo'l~ AT 
or else, I'll CLOCK ·yo~Ul!! 
match play. 
Big performances are ex­pected from the dynamic fresh­men Marisa Velasco and Jennifer Hall. Velasco is unde­feated this season in her singles matches and is playing im­pressively. After Hall's good showing at the tournament, she is expected to come up with some big wins in both of her matches. 
The team is looking to gain a little momentum by securing a victory over Tennesse. The Irish are rested, relaxed, and ready to take on the Volunteers. 
JPRINCi BREAK 
CANCUN 
7 Night Packages Non·Stop From Indianapolis 
$4)9 
BEACHFRONT HOTELS AVAILABLE OASIS • DAY'S INN • CALINDA • HYATI 
pgckag11 lncludt: 
• 
Round-Tnp Non-Stop Airfare From lnd1anapohs 

• 
7 Nighls Beachfront Hotel Accommodations 

• 
Round-Trip Airport to Hotel Transfers 

• 
College Tours famous VIP Party Package· FREE cover charges, FREE parties. FREE food & drinks, EXCLUSIVE special events, OVER $150 in savmgs! 


LOWEST PRICES • BEST HOTELS • BIGGEST PARTIES 
ORGANIZE A GROUP AND TRAVEL FREEl 
c~t.t. COLLEGE TOURS "{OO~Y\ 800·)95·4896 
Pnces per penon, plus ta:o:•• Pub~c Chart•rs VIII Alktgro Air Tour Operator 11 Funqu.st Vaeabont Dela~s 1n Op1Par1 Contrad 
#16 Notre Dame Men vs. #21 l<entucky 
7:00P.M. 
#16 Notre Dame Women vs. #9 Tennessee 

ThursJay, February 15, 1996 The Observer • TODAY page 15 
..
FOUR FOOD GROUPS OF THE APOCALYPSE DAVE KELLETT YOUR HOROSCOPE JEANE DIXON 


"' 
SPORTS 
page 16 Thursday, February 15, 1996 

Irish declaw harmless Wildcats 
Peirick, Fields raise level ofplay, help spark No. 25 Irish to 72-56 victory in 'biggest game ofseason' 
By TODD FITZPATRICK Sports Writer 
Irish head coach Muffet McGraw referred to this con­test as the biggest game of the season. 
McGraw
• 
had several reasons to appear so excited after her women's basketball squad de­feated 

Fields

Villanova 72­56. 
Unless No. 25 Notre Dame suffers an upset this weekend against Pittsburgh, the Irish should maintain their national ranking for at least another week. 
Notre Dame has also placed itself in an excellent position to earn one of the top two seeds in the Big East Conference tournament. 
"In terms of the post-season, I think that game really helped us. The NCAA tournament se­lection committee always looks for good wins. This was a good win. They're a quality team, and they had won 15 of the last 16 games," comment­ed McGraw. 
The Irish dominated every facet of the first half. They were led by sharpshooting guard Beth Morgan, who scored 18 of her game-high 28 points in the first stanza. 
As a team, the Irish shot 63 percent from field while hold­ing the Wildcats to a 29 per­cent field goal percentage. 
When both teams headed to the locker room at halftime, the scoreboard displayed a 4 7­23 Irish advantage. 
"That was probably our sec­ond best shooting performance of the season in the first half. Beth really helped open up the inside with her shooting. She scored a lot in transition," noted McGraw. 
In the second half, Notre Dame had more difficulty de­fending the talented Villanova perimeter shooters. 
Denise Dillon and Sue Glenning, the Wildcats' top scorers, began connecting from the outside and finished with 15 points each. 
Meanwhile, the Irish rushed several shots and allowed Villanova to trim the lead. Coach McGraw called a time­out to halt the Wildcat momen­tum. 
"We started shooting a little too quickly and they were making a run at us," McGraw said. 
The Irish were sparked by the tough performances from senior Stacy Fields and sopho­more Mollie Peirick. 
Fields' four points and six rebounds lifted the Irish confi­dence level when it appeared the Wildcats would claw their way back into the game. 
McGraw was especially pleased with Peirick's clutch performance during this game and throughout the season. 
"Mollie is kind of the unsung hero. You can't win without a good point guard." 
Tonight's performance has given Notre Dame the confi­dence it will need to compete with Connecticut next Saturday. 
Before playing the nationally televised contest with the Huskies, the Irish must con­tend with conference foes Pittsburgh and Miami. 
Notre Dame may have a long road ahead of them, but they are certainly travelling in the right direction. 

The Observer/Brent Tadsen 
Guard Mollie Peirick's clutch play helped propel the Irish to victory. 


Freshman Brian Patterson hopes to build on Monday's win over LSU. 

ByJOECAVATO 
Spons Writer 
This afternoon, the Notre Dame men's tennis team will have to do something that they have not had to do yet this year, come back from a loss. At 3:30, the Irish will play host to the Kentucky Wildcats at the Eck Tennis Pavillion. 
This past Monday, the Irish dropped a close match to top 10 foe LSU, 3-4. The Irish felt they could have won that match as they lost two tie-breakers in singles play. Kentucky will certainly prove to be a challenge to the Irish. 
The Wildcats, currently ranked in the top 20, feature three fearsome singles players. Cedric Kaufman, a native of France, ranks in the top five in the nation. Kentucky fills in the two spot with a returning All­American Ludd Sundin from Sweden. In addition, Marcus Fluitty probably has the biggest 


Notre Dame takes on Kentucky 
serve in college tennis, some­times reaching into the 120s. 
These teams have a lot of his­tory between them. The Wildcats and the Irish have split four matches since 1993. All of the matches have gone down to the wire resulting in a 4-3 score every time. 
"We always have tough matches against them," men­tioned junior Ryan Simme. "It will be a good and tough match." 
"Kentucky, even though they aren't ranked as high as LSU, I think they are a much better indoors team," captain Mike Sprouse said. "So it will proba­bly be just as hard as the LSU match." The Irish hope to improve on their doubles play in order to overcome the Wildcats. 
"We worked hard this practice in doubles," commented coach Bobby Bayliss. "The doubles point will be key, like it always is." 
Sprouse explained, "Things that hadn't been breaking down (in doubles) broke down on Monday. We need to get back to basics and not play over our heads." Since the top of the Wildcats lineup is so strong, the Irish will look to take advantage of their depth. 
"Two or three guys have been carrying us," noted Bayliss. "Now it is time for some of the players lower in the lineup to step up." 

Freshman Brian Patterson will look to continue his outstanding play in the five spot. Patterson won his singles match Monday in straight sets. 
The Irish also expect senior John J. O'Brien to fill in at the four slot. O'Brien was under the weather on Monday and missed his singles match, thus pushing Patterson up to four. Junior Ryan Simme emphasized the importance of play at the bottom of the lineup. 
"They are pretty strong at the top of the lineup," said Simme. "So the main thing is to do well down low." 
Even though the Irish let a chance get by Monday, they remain positive. 
"I think everybody will bounee back," Simme mentioned. "Everyone is prepared, and things will probably go better." 
Sprouse concurred, "We need to realize that even though we let a chance go in LSU, there are still a lot of chances for us com­ing up. 

SP 
Basketball 
• Women's Tennis Preview 
at Conneticut, February 17, 1 :30 p.m. 
Men's Tennis 
see page 14 
vs. Kentucky, Today, 3:30p.m.
Women's Basketball 
at Pittsburg, Sat, 7:30p.m. 
• UConn keeps streak alive 
Track 
Big East Championships, 

... at a Hockey 
see page 12
February 17-18 
at Michigan, February 16, 7 p.m. 
• Gretsky discusses future with Kings 
SMC Sports


Women's Tennis see page ll
Basketball at Manchester, Tonight 

GLANCE 
vs. Tennessee, Tonight, 7 p.m. 





