~~----­

Wednesday, September 18, 1996 • Vol. XXX No. 18 TilE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
O'Hara taps advisers for University gay group 
Gude ' Gaughan will use previous experience to lead new NDLGS 
By BRAD PRENDERGAST announced that Father Tom News Editor Gaughan and Sister Mary Louise Gude will be the advisers for the 
The University took the first group, which was created by organizational steps in develop­O'Hara in response to recom­ing the newly created Notre mendations made by the Ad Hoc Dame Lesbian and Gay Students Committee on Gay and Lesbian (NI>LGS) group, but it remains to Student Needs last spring. btl smm how receptive homosex­Gaughan and Gude's roles as ual students will be toward the advisers mark an entrance into organization. uncharted waters at Notre 
Vice President for Student Dame, because NDLGS has been Affairs Patricia O'llara has designated a University group 


SMC/HCC program helps frosh 
By ANN KEARNS 
S•im Mary's Assistant Editor 

l.ii'H in college is a time of constant change and adjust­ment. Freshmen must adapt to .a lifestyle of new-found fretJdoms, friends, and away­from-home living. 
To cope with these adjust­ments, students involved in the Linkage Program at Saint Mary's College and lloly Cross CollegH have aids to assist tlwm during this transitional pnriod. 
Participating students live at Saint Mary's in Regina Hall and take one class at Sai'nt Mary's and four at Holy Cross. 
Thejr academic development is then evaluated at the end of the school year. If they meet the GPA requirement of 3.0, they are accepted to Saint Mary's as full-time students. 
Eligibility for this program does not depend on any specif­ic criteria. The opportunity to participate is offered to appli­cants who wish to be fully accepted into Saint Mary's College. Although these stu­dents have the ability to sue­
r.ather than a student or~aniza­tJOn. That means NDLGS IS sub­
~ect to.a number of restrictions, 
mcludmg the rule that at least one adviser must be present in order for a meeting to be held. 
In addition, NDLGS does not have the authority to bring otT­campus speakers to campus nor does it have access to University funds. 
O'Hara formed NDLGS instead of accepting th~ request from Gays and Lesbians at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College (GLND/SMC) to fill the role as the official homosexual group on 
Members of the Linkage Program, these three Saint Mary's hopefuls are able to take advantage of both Saint Mary's College and Holy Cross College campuses. They take classes at both institutions while living in Regina Hall at Saint Mary's, and if they meet the requirements, they will be accepted as full­time students at SMC. 
ceed at Saint Mary's, they are 
lacking in one particular area, 
according to Susan Vanek, 
academic counselor in the 
Freshman Office. 
Vanek believes that Holy 
Cross provides an environment 
conducive to sharpening study 
skills and learning to work 
independently. Small classes 
and individual attention play a -vital role in their ability to do this. Dividing the classes between the two institutions allows the 
see LINK I page 6 
campus. Because G~ND/SMC What we'li.(Gude and Gaughan) was turned down, the mterest of have to do IS feel our way in the 
GLN~/SMC members in NDLGS beginning." 
remams unclear. The intent of the group, as 
Gude said that, for NDLGS to stated in O'Hara's response become a useful organization, from April 2, is "to assist gay gay and lesbian students must and lesbian students in coming feel that they can play a role in to lind mutual support and in the path that the new group exploring common issues within takes. the context of the University 
"If this group is perceived as a community and the teachings of faculty-run group, it won't really the Catholic Church." work," Gude, an assistant pro-But for homosexual students, fessional specialist in Romance discussing their sexual orienta­languages and literature, said tion with authorities of the yesterday. "The students have to feel ownership in some ways. 
see NDLGS I page 4 
The economy of athletics... 
Business prof explores sports' financial side 
By MATTHEW LOUGHRAN 
Assistant News Editor 

Money has become a larger part of sports in recent years. However, ticket sales are only the beginning of the complex web of economic issues that affect the worlds of professional and collegiate sports. 
Richard Sheehan, professor of finance and business economics at Notre Dame, explores the relationship between economics and sports in "Keeping Score: The Economics of Big-Time Sports." 
Sheehan takes a look at both professional and college athlet­ics. "Almost half of the book is evaluating the market values of teams. In it, I compare the col­leges to the pros and found that some of the best college pro­grams are comparable to the best professional programs," said Sheehan. 
However, his book is not only an evaluation of how much a team is worth. He does include some analysis of the costs that go into building a winning team. 
"In part," he said, "it is a question of who is most effi­cient, who has the lowest cost­to-win ratio and how much it 

When addressing college ath­letics, Sheehan touches on the idea of paying players, and on the equality of funding for men's and women's sports. 
He indicates that there are colleges that exploit players through what he calls "explicit pay." These institutions give the players the equivalent of $2 per practice hour, he said. 
"You have to evaluate the worth of the education and divide it by the number of hours practiced [to find the 
see BOOK I page 4 
SMC Student Trustee fields questions today 
By LESLIE FIELD 
News Writer 

Brandee Carlson. the 1996­97 Student Trustee on the Saint Mary's College Hoard of Trustees, will answer ques­tions and give students an opportunity to voice their con­cerns today in the Dining I I all from 4:45 p.m. to 6:45 p.m. 
Shn also will hold a session on Thursday in LeMans llall's lobby from 12 to 2 p.m. 
Carlson, a senior mass com­munications major living in J.eMans, has bflfm involved in various capacities on campus since her freshman year. As Studnnt Trustee, she says her main concern is reaching stu­dents and learning about their conenrns, while representing mu~h of them on the Board of Trustees. 
The Board is made up of 35 Saint Mary's alumnae and active community members. 
"I want to make sure I'm in touch with students and they're in touch with me. It is important that all students are represented and know who I am so they can get in touch with me if they ever need any­thing," Carlson said. 
"I want to set a precedent for the Student Trustee of visibility and open communication," Carlson commented. Her time in the Dining Hall and in LeMans' lobby will be spent passing out a student question­a ire whieh aims to get stu­dents' opinions on four areas: what they wish to commend Saint Mary's on, policies that they do not like, ones they are 
see TRUSTEE I page 4 
• MULTICUlTURAl BEAT 




Panel: Know your history 
By JENN D'ARCY which included an Hispanic Outlaw went to Indiana News Writer American, an Asian-American, University to study medicine. an African-American and a She was aecepted into medical 
Minorities often have to earn Native American. school, but chose instead to prestigious places in society in The opening speaker, Iris pursue teaching. order to be treated equally, Outlaw, director of "Sure, the African-American according to members of the Multicultural Student Affairs at students can probably run fast, "Growing Up American" panel Notre Dame, spoke about her but they are academically and 
African-American background. "When you see an African­
see AMERICAN I page 6 
American. what do you think?" she challenged the audience. Outlaw lived for a short time 
• CONCERT UPDATE in an inner city until her father 
Observer Staff Report 

relocated the family because of the dangers he saw as a police­
Ticketmaster announced 
man in the neighborhood. 
yesterday that the Dave
Outlaw also lived in a small 
Matthews Band has post­
farm town with only two 
poned the concert previously
African-American families. She 
scheduled for Monday, Sept. 
recalls people calling the 
23, at the Joyce Center, due
Outlaw family "niggers." 
to the death of the bassist's
Teachers refrained from pun­
daughter. The date has not
ishing or correcting racial slurs 
yet been rescheduled. 

when they were directed at Outlaw and her family. 



~ -·--------------------~ 
----~~-----­
r 
page 2 Wednesday, September 18, 1996
The Observer • INSIDE 

' 
• INSIDE COlUMN 
'Tis the 

season 
It's that time of year 
Nora Meany
again. It's SYR season, 
Saint Mary's 

baby, and I can sense 
Accent Editor 

the anxiety from here... or was that sexu­al tension? SYRs exist for the sole purpose of getting drunk and hooking up with someone else's date. So girls, grab your ''I'm Fresh Meat" name tag, and guys, cop an attitude. Stick with me, and you'll create valuable rifts by spring break. 
SYRs, deemed "Screw Your Roommate" by the Domer set, were created to torture unsus­pecting freshmen. They occur at a most time­ly point in the year. Pale and with the telltale signs of the "freshman fifteen", they stagger around the floor in packs. Early on, partygo­ers are taught the value of Natural Light cases, control top pantyhose and the complete conformity to the social norms of a society. These social lessons will carry to graduation and beyond ... .I'm getting ahead of myself. Back to your lessons ..... 
First: clothes. For guys, khaki pants, a white dress shirt, red tie, navy blazer and brown shoes. You should be carrying one red rose that was hastily bought in LaFortune. It must be a rose. It must be red. It must only be one. Any variation and you might not be let into your date's dorm. No flower at all? You're going to that dance stag, boy! 
Ladies, you can wear whatever you want, as long as it's a black tank dress with dark hose and matching heels. What if your date is short and you have to wear flats? Eliminate this concern .... don't ask anyone under 6'1. You don't need the "height anxiety", and your date doesn't need the hassle of being asked if he "represents the lollipop kids" at the pre­party. 
But I have just touched upon an important subject.: who to ask. You can eliminate any­one described as "smart", "friendly" or aS" having a "good personality". These are buzz­words for loser. Instead, go for someone wh9 is attractive. The beauty of your date is directly reflective of your own self-worth. 
Zoom ahead to the pre-party. Having a good time? Drink. Not having a good time? Drink heavily. A good goal to shoot for is incoherency. Make sure everybody knows how much you've had. If possible, throw up. However, show your suave moves by aiming away from your date. That'll really win them over. Plus points if your date is sullen and moody at this point, or verbally abusive. 
The dance: Your dance will have a theme such as cartoons, romantic slogans or signs of the apocalypse. Do not dance. this is redun­dant. Stand on the dance floor in a cluster and ridicule classmates. Complain about the D.J's heavy rotation of "The Macarena". Aim to exploit your intoxicated state as much as possible. The sooner you get kicked out, the sooner you can..... 
Postparty: Taco Bell Drive-Thru. On the 
way, hook up with your roommate's date. By 
now, your date has left you for someone with 
a car and cottage in Michigan. Order nachos 
and a large coke, and make someone else pay. 
This is your night! Whew, and what a night it 
has been ....... . 
If you follow my handy tips, you should be 
the most shallow person on your floor by 
November. You will probably never find true 
contentment in a collegiate social situation. 
But, with fun like this, who needs happiness. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 

•  TODAY'S STAFF  
Graphics  
News  Jon King  
Jillian Paglioccia  
Matthew Loughran  Production  
Belle Bautista  
Sports  John Hutchinson  
Kathleen Lopez  
Brian Fremeau  Lab Tech  
Brandon Candura  

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday 

except during aam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of 
the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
• WORLD AT A GLANCE 

Klondike copters: prospectors race into Ontario backwoods 

TORONTO 
In a flashback to the gold-rush era, hundreds of prospectors from across North America raced into a huge tract of Ontario wilderness Tuesday, staking claims to mineral rights in an area that had been off-limits for 23 years. 
Some mining companies hired heli­copters to drop prospectors into the bush and bogs. An American firm recruited sprinters from a local high school track team to help stake claims. 

Up for grabs were the rights to dig for gold, copper, zinc, diamonds and other minerals on a 2,300-square-mile seg­ment of the Temagami region, 250 miles north of Toronto. It was the biggest mineral-claims rush in Canada in decades . . In June, Ontario's Conservative government decided to allow mining and expanded logging in the environmental­ly sensitive region after a 23-year freeze imposed by a court because of disputes over Indian land claims. 
Environmental groups have waged guerrilla-style protests against planned logging operations in some of Temagami's old-growth forests. They planned no similar protests against the mineral-claims rush, although some ecologists worry mining operations could damage the area. . 
The rush began at 9 a.m., with prospectors heading off in pickup trucks, all-terrain vehicles and on foot. Authorities estimated that 500 to 600 prospectors were taking part. 
''I'm supposed to be retired, but once this is in your 
Clinton wouldn't rule out hiring Dole 
WESTLAND 
If Bob Dole loses the election, would 
,-..,..-r-......_mr--.:~ there be a Cabinet job waiting for him in the Clinton administration? "You think he would want one?" President Clinton said Tuesday. "I wouldn't rule it out." The question arose during an interview with Clinton by ABC-TV's Barbara Walters. She said Clinton's first response was that he hadn't wwea_........___, thought about it but then he said he wouldn't rule it out. Walters chatted with the president for 45 minutes on Air Force One as the plane sat on the tarmac at the Willow Run Airport in Westland, Mich., before he flew to Chicago. The interview is scheduled to air Friday on ABC's "20-20." Last week, Walters interviewed Republican Bob Dole and his wife, Elizabeth. Walters said she asked Clinton about the resignations of three Health and Human Services Department officials. 

Three stations OK condom ads 

NEW YORK 
Television stations in Houston, Seattle and Chico, Calif., have agreed to run paid condom advertising, breaking ranks with other broadcast outlets that generally refuse such commercials. The 60-second ad, which shows a computer-animated skeleton citing the reasons he never used condoms, has been running for a year on cable's MTV and Comedy Central networks, but was rejected by the major networks and· about 40 TV stations. The maker of Lifestyles condoms said Tuesday that KCPM-TV in Chico and KING-TV in Seattle began running its ad this week and KPRC-TV in Houston would start running it next week. All three are NBC affiliates. Carol Carrozza, marketing director for Eatontown, N.J.-based Ansell Personal Products Group, said the stations have taken "a tremendous step" and she's hopeful other stations will be emboldened to run the ads. 


• NATIONAl WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forcast AccuWeathere forecast for daytime conditions and hi h temperatures 

The AccuWeather®forecast for noon, Wednesday, Sept. 18. 
Lines separate high temperature zones for the day. 

FRONTS: 
.............,..........._~ 
COLD WARM STATIONARY 
C 1996 AccuWeather, Inc. 
Pf6S8urs 

H L B &S'l ITIJ 

HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY 
Atlanta 81 56 Dallas 86 70 New Orleans 85 75 Baltimore 76 52 Oenver 64 38 New York 70 55 
. 

~ Boston 61 52 Los Angeles 84 64 Phoenix 94 69

~,~,~~~ ~ 

Showers T-storms Rain Flumes Snow Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy Chicago 72 49 Miami 90 n Pittsburgh 72 49 Via Assodated Press Gmphk::sNet '"" Columbus 75 47 Nashville 78 50 St. Louis 75 54 


blood you're hooked," prospector Jack Patrei, 57, told the Canadian Press news agency. 
Some mining companies brought lawyers or notary publics into the dense forest and bogs to verify times and locations of claims. Others video­taped their work. 
For the first 24 hours of the rush, "competitive staking rules" apply, the Ontario Department of Mines said. That means the first person to finish a claim is recognized. 
Each claim must be at least 40 acres. Prospectors must start in the northeast corner and work their way around the claim clockwise, driving stakes into each corner and marking the lines between the four posts. 
It can take as little as 12 minutes for a team of five prospectors to sprint around a claim, notching trees as they go. Royal Oak Mines Inc. of Kirkland, Wash., recruit­ed high-school track sprinters from nearby Timmins. 
Once the stakes are laid, prospectors have 30 days to file their claim at mining recorders' offices. 
On promising claims, preliminary exploration could begin almost immediately. But Mike Leahy, president of the Northern Prospectors Association, said up to five years would be needed to get a mine into operation. 
Provincial police brought in reinforcements to help Temagami's small detachment deal with the influx of prospectors. Constable Dana McLean predicted "a cer­tain amount of chaos" but doubted there would be con­frontations. 
Studies debate heart disease risk 
CHICAGO 
The smaller the particles in your "bad cholesterol," the greater your risk of heart disease, new research sug­gests. But a larger study in the same medical journal dis­putes that finding. And in an accompanying editorial, Johns Hopkins University researchers said it's question­able whether testing people's particle size would be help­ful in predicting their risk of-heart disease. The debate appears in Wednesday's Journal of the American Medical Association. In the first study, led by Stanford University's Christopher Gardner, 124 people who had suffered a heart attack or died of heart disease were matched with a control group believed to be disease-free. The researchers looked at the particles of low-density lipoproteins, or LDL cholesterol, in the patients' blood. Smaller LDL particles were linked to a higher risk of heart disease, the researchers said. In the second study, researchers also found that, while smaller LDL diameter was related to an increased heart attack risk. 

Florida abandons pursuit of convict 
NEW YORK 
Forty-four years after he fled a Florida chain gang, Eddie Brown can stop looking over his shoulder. Authorities have dropped their attempts to have the ail­ing, 64-year-old grandfather of 27 returned to prison. "I feel, Lord have mercy, what a burden off my back," Brown said Tuesday after learning Florida Gov. Lawton Chiles had dropped the extradition order. "It's just tremendous to be free." Brown was 19 when he robbed a convenience store in 1952 for $120. He fled a work crew in Zephyrhills, Fla., after serving six months of a five­year sentence and made his way to New York in 1957, taking jobs that didn't require background checks, like scrubbing floors and shining shoes. He lived a law-abid­ing life until his past caught up with him last year, when he got into a minor traffic accident. Police checked his license, found a warrant and arrested Brown. 
Wednesday, September 18, 1996 The Observer· CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
.• HALL PRESIDENTS COUNCIL 
School Mass, spirit day top council's calendar 
By KATE JACQUES 
News Writer 
The Hall President's Council had its weekly meeting last night, where upcoming events were discussed, including those focused on "spreading school spirit." 
• This Sunday, Sept. 22, a school-wide Mass will be cele­brated at 4:00 p.m. at the JACC. 
Following the service, a Student-Faculty Dinner will be given so that students can talk with their professors. In order to promote attendance, dorm masses are canceled 
• 80ARO OF GOVERNANCE 
and the dining halls will be closed. 
• 
SUB is planning the annual AnTostal celebration and is seeking volunteers. A meeting for all those interested will be held on Sunday, September 22. 

• 
Wednesday, Sept. 25, has been designated "Dorm Clothing Day." All students are requested to sign in at the Alumni-Senior Club wearing dorm clothing to win the most spirited dorm competition. 

• 
HPC has planned a Rave for Sept. 26. It will be held in LaFortune from 10 p.m. to 


1:30 a.m. 






BOG debates budget issues 
ByCARAFORD 
News Writer 
The Saint Mary's Board of Governance (BOG) met last evening to discuss its budget proposal and general business matters. 
The 1996-97 Student Government Budget was approved, with the overall amount totaling $115,500. A portion of the total went to clubs and organizations which received $14,000. Play of the Mind was given $5,000. Dalloway's Coffeehouse received $2,000. Class govern­ments were allotted $5,000, and the off-campus department received $700. 

"We want to stretch our dol­lars to benefit the students who are always at the meetings," explained BOG President Jen Turbiak. 
The BOG also approved a date for the WVFI "80s lunch," which will be held on Sept. 27. 
In other BOG business: 
• 
The Board scheduled the Student Connection dinner for Oct. 9 at 4:45 p.m. in the Wedgeroom. Current students holding positions will be on hand to discuss leadership opportunities with underclass­men. 

• 
The Student Activities Board canceled "Make a Deal" which was scheduled to take place tonight at 7 p.m. 





Business Consulting • Advanced Technology • Progressive Attitude 
OUR CHARTS INDICATE THAT YOU SHOULD CONSULT APOSITION 
... WATERSTONE 
@'CONSULTING 
For more information call 847.699.9797 Ext: 231 • http://www.waterstone.com 
Meyer gift establishes MBA chair, courses 
Special to The Observer 

The University has received a major monetary commitment from Ken Meyer, executive vice president of Lincoln Capital Management Company in Chicago. 
Meyer will endow a profes­sorship, fund several fellow­ships and summer internships, and develop a group of special graduate level courses in the MBA program of the College of Business Administration. 
"Ken's generosity will doubt­less accelerate Notre Dame's rise in the ranks of the nation's most highly respected business schools," said Father Edward Malloy, the University's president. 
"More important, countless Notre Dame business students and future business leaders will be the beneficiaries of his timely and significant gift." 
In addition to establishing the Kenneth R. Meyer Chair in Global Investment Management, the gift will fund the development of many MBA courses. 
"Notre Dame's graduate business school has made great strides in a very compet­itive environment," said Meyer. "I hope this gift will further enhance the University's prominence in graduate business education." 
The gift also will establish and fund the Meyer Presidential MBA Fellowships for outstanding graduate stu­dents in finance and a summer internship program. 
These would give selected MBA students working experi­ence in an investment firm. 
A 1966 graduate of Notre Dame, Meyer holds an MBA degree from the Wharton School of Finance. He has been with Lincoln Capital since 1981 and in the investment management business since 1968. 
A member of the board of directors of Irish Life of North America and of LINK Unlimited, a minority educa­tion program in Chicago, he is also a member of the Advisory Council for Notre Dame's College of Arts and Letters. 
School of Information 
Did Someone Say 
VVi 


Fall semester juststarted, but already it's time to think about applying for winter term courses at the School oflnformation at the University ofMichigan. 
Our deadline for applying in consideration offinancial aid is October 1, 1996. General applications will be accepted until November 1,1996. 
Our Master ofScience in Information program pre­pares you in an educational setting that values tradition yet boldly applies today's techno­logical resources. 
Faculty expertise spans library 
Real Jobs, Real Futures 
Our graduates work: 
• 
At CNN, America Online, Microsoft, United Technologies, and other leading corporations 

• 
At Dream Works and other entertainment companies 


oAt libraries, museums, and archives throughout the United States 
o As Internet/Web trainers 
studies, information sciences, archival administration, economics, management, organizational development, behavioral science, user interface collaboration technology, human-computer interaction, computer science, and systems engineering . 


We Want to Hear from You (313) 763-2285 
SI.MSI@umich.edu http://www.si.umich.edu/ 
An Equal Opportunity/Affirmative Action lnst1tut1on 


page4 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, September 18, 1996 
Book 
continued from page 1 
value]. The high end of the spectrum is around $22 per hour, while the low end is $2. The low end is held up by uni­versities that only graduate around 8 percent of their ath­letes," he said. 
He also comments on Title IX, the congressional proposition that guarantees equal funding for men's and women's sports at the collegiate level. Most col­leges divide their sports' budget between the two programs and allot an equal amount of schol­arship money to both. Nonetheless, large football pro­grams sometimes consume a disproportionate amount of ath­letic budgets. 
"Many programs believe that football should be excluded from the calculations, but that only works if football makes money. Some big universities do make money on their pro­grams, but most of Division I football does not," he said. "In fact, some even lose money." 
Sheehan first considered exploring this topic when caught in Friday pep-rally traf­fic when leaving his office too late one evening. "I got to thinking about how much Notre Dame's football team was worth. The next day, I sent around to every professional program asking for the num­bers so that I could compare them, but I kept getting turned down. So then I decided to real­ly pursue the topic," he recalled. 
Sheehan received his doctor­ate in economics from Boston College. He served as an assis­tant and associate professor at James Madison University, and as an economist with the Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis. He received the GBorgescu-Roegen Prize in Economics in 1990 and Notre Dame's executive MBA Teacher ofthe Year Award in 1994. 
Trustee 
continued from page 1 
in favor of and their impres­sion of Saint Mary's. 
Carlson is also in the process of establishing more concrete guidelines for the Student Trustee. "I want to write a job description for the Student Trustee to be placed in the constitution. I feel it is impo­rant to help future trustees to have a smooth transition," said Carlson. 
Saint Mary's has had a stu­dent on its Board of Trustees only during the past few years. It is a unique position, showing Saint Mary's interest in student representation on all levels, according to Carlson. There are also students sitting on each of the five subcommittees of the Board. These subcom­mittees highlight student life, the SMC mission, finance and budget, development, and edu­cation. 
Carlson could not comment on specific topics discussed during Board meetings. She did explain that enrollment, future development, upkeep of buildings, education and cur­rent concerns and issues are among topics generally dis­cussed during the Board's two­day meetings. 
The meetings are chaired by Mary Lou Gorno, current Chicago resident and Saint Mary's alumna. 
Carlson also sits on the Board of Governance {BOG}, Saint Mary's chief governing body. 
"I have a better understand­ing of campus when I'm at BOG. It is important for me to be aware of anything that's going on. The Board of Trustees is very open and excited to hear about student activiHes and concerns," Carlson said. 
She has sat on a variety of boards at Saint Mary's, rang­ing from the Judicial Board, which she chaired through her junior year, to VISA. 
Besides her involvement in these boards, Carlson started the Saint Mary's College Republican Club during her freshman year. The club con­tinues today under new lead­ership. 
Carlson urges juniors who are interested in becoming a Student Trustee to apply when they receive their invitations in January. The process is com­plex and, consequently, a good experience for students, she said. 
Three letters of recomenda­tion, a letter of intent, and an extensive interview process make up the selection process. College President William Hickey, faculty, members of the Board and alumnae sit in during various steps of the process. 

NDLGS 
continued from page 1 
Church may be somewhat dis­comforting. Gude and Gaughan said those concerns may pass with time. 
"It might be a hindrance to some, but it's part of the free­dom of choice. It's another venue to turn," said Gaughan, who has served the campus for 10 years, including as the cur­rent director of Notre Dame Encounter and Retreats and rec­tor of Stanford Hall. 
"Sister and I have adminis­tered to gay and lesbian stu­dents for many years," he con­tinued. "Hopefully, time will put these fears aside. 
Gude and Gaughan became advisers to the group after receiving invitations from O'Hara. Gude said she accepted the invitation in part because she developed friendships with homosexual individuals years ago when she was a graduate student. 

"I said yes out of a sense of paying a debt to my friends," she said. "This is not a commit­ment to Student Affairs as much as it is a commitment to them. When I met them, I wasn't intro­duced to an issue. I was intro­duced to people." 
The group has not met yet. 

GLND/SMC co-chairs Sean Gallavan and Carol Jones issued a statement yesterday on the formation of NDLGS. 
"GLND/SMC recognizes NDLGS as an important step for­ward for lesbian and gay stu­dents within the significant limi­committee," the statement read. and organizations should work tations imposed by Professor "GLND/SMC feels very strongly together to achieve equality on O'Hara's mandate to the ad hoc that all lesbian and gay students both campuses." 


Finance Club 
Career Night 

ABN AMRO/LaSalle National Bank Andersen Consulting Arthur Andersen & Co. AT&T Bank of America Baxter Health care Boston Consulting Group Cambridge Technology Group Cargill, Incorporated CIGNA C.W. Costello & Assoc. 
Dain Bosworth  Dean Witter Reynolds  First Chicago NBD  Ford Motor Company  
General Electric  GE Capital Services  General Mills  . General Reinsurance Corp.  
J.D. Edwards  Keycorp  Merrill Lynch  Merrill Lynch Investment Banking  

Merrill Lynch Private Client Group Moosbrugger Marketing Research Mutual of Omaha NIPSCO Northwestern Mutual Life Oak Brook Bank Olde Discount Stockbrokers PNC Bank Corp. Procter & Gamble Prudential Securities Staff Management The Summit Group 
Sophomores -Juniors -Seniors All Majors 
Tuesday Evening, September 24 7:00p.m. Atritlm College of Business Building 
Details ---> http://www.nd.edu/--finclub/finclubhome.html 
·------·------------•. 


Wednesday, September 18, 1996 The Observer • NEWS page 5 
Corrective procedure 
Clinton deploys more troops to Iraq 
By BARRY SCHWEID
proves deadly to heart 
By LINDSEY TANNER 
Alsociatrd Press Writrr 
CHICAGO 

A heart monitoring procedure used a million or more times a year in this country to treat crit­ically ill patients may actually be killing some of them, researchers say. 
Patients who undnrwent the procndure, called right heart catheterization, had a 21 per­cent highnr risk of death in the succeeding 30 days, according to ligures on 5,735 intensive­cure unit patients at five U.S. nwdical centers. 
Hight heart catheterization involves inserting a balloon­tippt~d catheter into a neck vein and guiding it into the heart's right atrium. The procedure allows doctors to measure how the heart is performing and choose the right treatment. 
The procedure, in use for 25 years, is a central element of care for critically ill patients who are in shock or whose hearts are functioning abnor­mally. The annual cost associat­ml with its use is more than $2 billion. 
Though some patients might lmnefit from the procedure, Dr. Alfred Connors Jr. of the University of Virginia said his study failed to identify any who did. 
"What we dntermined is that 
Associated Press Writer 
there clearly is an association WASHINGTONbetween the use of right heart President Clinton is sendingcatheters and a higher rate of 3,500 U.S. troops to Kuwait todeath," Connors said. 
"keep Saddam Hussein in aConnors offered some possible 
box" and as a warning the 
reasons why: Any time a foreign 
Iraqi leader risks further
agent like a catheter is inserted 
attacks if he threatens
into the body, there's an infec­American forces or neighbor­tion risk. And the procedure has ing Persian Gulf nations. 
been known to irritate the heart 
Defense Secretary William
muscles and sometimes cause 
Perry said today the troopsirregular heartbeats that could would join 1,200 already in
be fatal. 
Kuwait and would be there byBesides the higher death rate, the end of the week. He flatlyhis study linked the procedure 
rejected speculation the
to longer stays in the intensive­
Kuwaiti government initiallycare unit and higher hospital 
was unwilling to accept addi­costs. 
tional U.S. forces.
Connors and his colleagues "We're doing it because thesaid the research is the largest, 
Kuwaiti government feelsmost detailed study on right 
threatened," said Perry.
heart catheterization. It was 
Kuwait was invaded by Iraq in
published in Wednesday's 1990 and liberated monthsJournal of the American 
later by a U.S. led coalition. 
Medieal Association. 
Asked what actions by
"There's no question that the Saddam Hussein would prompthealth establishment should pay 
renewed U.S. strikes against
attention to that," said Dr. 
Iraq, the defense secretary
Claude Lenfant, director of the said, "We will not tolerate anyNational Heart, Lung and Blood threatening actions against our
Institute at the National 
air crews and any they take weInstitutes of I lealth. But he said will respond very sharply." 
banning the procedure in the At the State Department, aabsence of further research is spokesman said a new diplo­
"perhaps a little bit jumping to 
matic note was sent to
condusions." 
Baghdad's U.N. mission warn­
In an accompanying JAMA ing Iraq not to threaten U.S.
editorial, two doetors said the forces or its neighbors. It wasfindings are alarming enough to the second such warning in the warrant either immediate clini­past 10 days. 
cal trials by the institute. 
Spokesman Nicholas Burns said the note was "to put Iraq 
on notice." 
University of Notre Dame International Study Program in Earlier in the day President Clinton said he had signed the order sending the troops to Kuwait so that there wouldn't "be any ambiguity at all." Senate Republican leader
Monterrey, Mexico 
Trent Lott of Mississippi expressed satisfaction with the administration policy after meeting with Clinton. He said he hoped "there will be no basis" for the troops to go into
Information Meeting with 
Professor Juan Rivera 
r~~~s:;:~:;;::::; 

are a{[ invitee£ to a :Memoria{ :Mass for
Wednesday, 
Car[£. Cunningham 

September 18, 1996 
'Thursday, September 19, 1996 -7:00 P.M. 
118 DeBartolo 
Cfirist tfie 'l(ing Catfio{ic Cfiurcfi 
52473 'liS. 31 g{prtli {Corner of'llS. 31 ana 'Darien 'R.flaa) 
S:OO p.m. 
http://www.nd.edu:80/-silliman/carl.btmi 

M Pillsbury Doughboy Cookie Jar 

11:00 am -1:00 pm Fried Chlcken,Whipped Potatoee TM Blue Plate Special Lazy Baby 
and Gravy, Green Beane-$2.95 
w 

T Pat Heiden QuartetFree Espresso
T 
T 

WJewel & The FutureFree Gourmet Cookie
w J 
T After Hours Free 12 oz. coffee with any purchase ·J Stamper Bob
T 
with bagel purchase 4 Jalapeno Cream Cheese 
CARia~RfS URJOKf
~ 
Poppers for $.99 

wear your hall apparel. 


action but that depends on 
America's
whether Saddam threat­ens U.S. forces, including pilots flying over northern and southern Iraq, and Iraq's neighbors. 
Before departing for a three-day campaign swing in the Midwest and West, Clinton said, "The response we gave was designed to improve the strategic position of the United States and our allies to keep Saddam Hussein in a box and limit his ability to threaten his neighbors." 
Defense Secretary William Perry was expect­ed to give more details at a Pentagon briefing later in 
the day. 

Clinton confirmed the air base in lncirlik for the launching of air deployment after meeting strikes against Iraq. with congressional leaders EJ Kuwait has agreed to the deployment of to explain the administra-additional U.S. troops to .add to their tion's actions in Iraq as 1,200-strong contingent. 
"entirely appropriate ~Bahrain will allow U.S. F-16s to be based under the circumstances." on its territory to help enforce Iraq's He did not offer a southern "no-fly" zone. 
· bl " d 1 t !!] Saudi Arabia has not permitted the
limeta e tOr ep oymen • Americans to launch air strikes against but said the Defense lraqfromtheirterritory.
Department will carry it L-....:.:..::::L::~....::..:..::~::..:..:..::~------' out "in a very timely fashion." Clinton said. 
The actions are designed to But after today's meeting, communicate to Saddam that some GOP lawmakers scolded "the box you are in is now a Clinton for not matching tough tighter box," Clinton said. "It's words with deeds. obvious that he's always push-"Saddam Hussein is far bol­ing the envelope. We didn't ter oiT than he was two weeks want to create a precedent that ago," said Sen. John McCain, would lead him to believe he R-Ariz. He said Saddam now could take further action. We controls parts of northern Iraq didn't want there to be any that he previously did not and ambiguity at all." the Iraqi leader has split the 
Clinton sought to dispel criti-Gulf War allies as well. cism of his policy toward Iraq, "If you say that you're going saying other actions would to respond disproportionately have been too risky, such as and don't, then there's a price sending ground troops in to to pay. When your allies force Saddam out of northern become very uneasy and in fact Iraq or staging an attack that nonsupportive, except for the would have cost civilian lives. British, then you have a very 
"I feel good today that we did serious challenge," said the appropriate thing in the McCain, who is a close friend appropriate way and we got of Clinton's presidential rival, the results that we sought," Bob Dole. 
Bernardin prays with murderer 
By BRIAN BERGSTEIN Associated Press Writer 
SPRINGFIELD 

TerminaHy ill Cardinal Joseph Bernardin met Tuesday with a mass murderer who wanted to spend his final hours with a man facing death like himself. 
Bernardin, head of the 2.3­million-member Roman Catholic archdiocese of Chicago, is dying of cancer and has a year or less to live. 
The condemned man, Raymond Lee Stewart, wanted to pray with the cardinal because Bernardin is .. a man who is looking at life from the far end," said the inmate's lawyer, Joshua Sachs. 
Bernardin, who said earlier in the day that he did not want his visit with Stewart to be per­ceived as a media event, spent about an hour inside the prison, entering and leaving out of view of reporters. 
Stewart, 44, was to be put to death by injection early Wednesday for a 1981 rampage that took six lives. 
The Illinois Supreme Court rejected his appeal Tuesday, a day after his request for clemHn­cy was denied by Gov. Jim Edgar. 
Stewart was not a Homan Catholic and thus couldn't receive the last rites of the church. 


---------·

~---·--·­
.....--------, 

page 6 The Observer • NEWS Wednesday, September 18, 1996 
Mary's, and they learn with their Holy Cross friends.

Grads lament financial woes Link 
Additionally, they spend a 

continued from page 1 great deal of time with the 
TRINITY I SH DRNCE COMPRNY 

Saturda~. September 21 ·o P.M. Otaughlin Ruditorium 
Tickets: $5 (Students), $16 (Adults) on sale at the Suint Mary's Box Office, O'Loughlin Auditorium, Saint Mary's College 9om-
5pm, Monday· Friday. MO~AU Visa, MasterCard, and Discover orders C'1/C ·rcD occepted by phone at 219/284-4626 C 1 • C *discounts lor senior dflzens ond groups O'Laughlin Auditorium 
The Salvation Army Thrift Store 
Hsieh posited that people need to think through what 
506 South Main Street
they say before they say it: "Even if you're different, you 
South Bend, IN 46601 
Store Hours

have to be proud of who you 
10% are." 
Monday -Saturday Student & Faculty
#288-2539
9:00 a.m. -6:00 p.m. Discount With l.D. 
By VIVIAN MARINO 
Associated Press Writer 
NEW YORK 

Deirdre and Dewar McLeod are gathering some flock of sheepskin. 
She has a bachelor's degree in semiotics and a master's in cre­ative writing, and will soon earn a doctorate in English literature. He holds a bachelor's in human­ities and is working on his mas­ter's and Ph.D. in American his­tory. 
With those accumulating degrees, comes an accumula­tion of debt -loads of it -as much as $50,000 for the Brooklyn, N.Y., couple com­bined. 
"I don't even know what my payments are going to be. I try not to think about it," said Mrs. McLeod, 36, a part-time college instructor who begins regular loan payments once her disser­tation is filed and the degree awarded. 
"I'm glad they (the loans) were there. (But) I don't think I would do it again," she said. The McLeods will likely have to forgo buying a home and car and putting aside college sav­ings for 4-year-old daughter Sinead until the debt is under control and both secure full­time jobs. 
Thousands of college gradu­ates are lamenting the long­term consequences of taking on debt to fmance an education: a drain on their monthly income, a crimp on lifestyle and meager savings or investments. But fail­ure to meet student loan obliga­tions could spell fmancial disas­ter -wages can be garnished, 
8 
6 
Source: American Council on Education, Nellie Mae 
tax refunds intercepted and credit ruined. Bankruptcy won't even dismiss the obligation. 
The reality usually begins to set in during fall months, with the official end of the typical six­month grace period for loan paybacks for spring graduates. Lenders presume graduates will have had a chance to land jobs in their chosen fields by now. 
Yet that's often not the case. "That's our No. 1 topic, I would say," said Ken Kurson, 27-year­old editor of Green, a New York­based personal fmance newslet­ter for Generation Xers, those age 19 to 35. He gets many let­ters from readers complaining about how a lack of job opportu­nities and heavy student loan 
Ainerlcan 
continued from page 1 
intellectually capable of being at Notre Dame ... Don't let any­one beat that down," said Outlaw. 
Following Outlaw, Luisa 
engaged the group of Saint Mary's and Notre Dame stu­dents and faculty in the chant, as well. 
"Knowing your history results in the pride and foun­dation of who you are," Heredia said. She was a part of the Xicano Moments, a group expressing that "education 
Laura Heredia, a sophomore at Notre Dame and the president of the cultural group LaAlianza, spoke about her cultural background and the importance of history. Heredia shares Mexican, Indian, Polynesian and other ethnic backgrounds. 
Beginning her presentation with the chant that opens each LaAlianza meeting, Heredia gives us both power and basis," explained Heredia. "We need to see each other's cul­tures and try to understand them, then we can appreciate them." 
The final speaker, Dr. Suping Jesse Hsieh, elaborated on the importance of education to the Chinese culture. Hsieh involved the audience in establishing the presence of minorities in 
AP 

burdens are affecting the quali­ty of their lives. 
That's happened to some degree to 26-year-old Jennifer Sesen Klein, of the Washington, D.C., area, who had to take out about $20,000 in student loans in pursuit of a journalism degree at New York University. She made regular payments after her first full-time job, but is now unemployed and depends upon her husband to help with the $225 monthly pay­ments. She already was granted one deferment on the loans. 
Sensitive to the plight of oth­ers like her, Klein recently start­ed the National Association of Twentysomethings in Washington. 
academic institutions. 
Linkage students a chance to adapt to college courses more gradually. Instead of being put into a four year university, they are able to study in a competitive but relaxed envi­ronment at Holy Cross. 
A current participant in the program who wished to remain anonymous feels more comfortable in her Holy Cross classes. 
"Teachers there are very willing to help," she said. 
The students are free to choose their own class sched­ule with the exception of a mandatory class, College Success Strategies, which is offered at Holy Cross. 
This is a one credit course that prov\des students with time management skills, test­taking tips, and a survival guide for the college social life. Beginning this year, all Linkage students will be taught by the Linkage Coordinator for Holy Cross, Ann Baldinger. 
This gives them a chance to meet once a week and discuss any concerns as a group. 
The Linkage Program pro­vides the student with not only academic benefits, but also social benefits. It immediately introduces them to two differ­ent environments and groups of people. 
They live, eat, and study with their friends at Saint 
~ 

• 
USED FURNITURE Household Items -Clothing
• 


3 on 3 Basketball Tournament 
Sunday-September 22nd Play begins at noon on the Stepan Courts 52 entry fee 
Sign up outside the Sr. Class Office or at Alumni/Senior Club 
Prizes will be awarded, including Bruno's Gift Certificates 419-J 
other participants, with whom they initially have things in common, according to Michelle Sullivan, a freshman Linkage student. 
Katie Hanley, a sophomore at Saint Mary's and a former Linkage student, feels it was beneficial for her social life being a "Link." 
"Being in the Linkage Program gave me the best of both worlds. I was able to take a class at Saint Mary's, and at Holy Cross, I had the male perspective in my cours­es," she said. 
As with any program, it does have its setbacks. Current Linkage student, Jennifer Dallmus, is unable to play softball competitively for Saint Mary's this year. 
NCAA rules cite that athletes must be full-time students (enrolled with 12 semester hours) at the institution in which they are participating, according to Jan Travis, direc­tor of Athletics and Recreation. 
The program began during the 1992-93 school year with 16 students. Fourteen contin­ued at Saint Mary's the follow­ing year, with 11 graduating in May of 1996. 
The remaining three took an extra semester and will be graduating this winter. Two continued at Holy Cross and one withdrew from the pro­gram. 

Wednesday, September 18, 1996 The Observer • NEWS page 7 
• HAITI

Tobacco cover-up exposed 
Years later, democracy
By AMY KUEBELBECK Tuesday, tobacco stocks rallied Industrielle und Biologische 
Associated Press Writer 
ST. PAUL, Minn. 

Philip Morris researchers wrote of destroying documents and the need to "bury" unfavor­able nicotine research in the 1970s, according to documents filed in court Tuesday. 
The tobacco company also used a research lab in Germany to conduct work the company was "reluctant to do in this country," and a research direc­tor had a handwritten note in his files that said all important documents should be sent to his home, where "I will act on them & destroy." 
The papers were filed as part of the discovery process in a Minnesota lawsuit, one of 15 so far in which states are trying to recover Medicaid costs spent treating tobacco-related illness­es. 
"We're greatly disturbed by evidence of an illegal cover-up, because it deprives the public of the truth," said Minnesota Attorney General Hubert Humphrey Ill. "Clearly, they have some questions to answer." 
In related developments 
after a Florida court barred the state from seeking to collect Medicaid costs of treating smok­ers before a 1994 state law was passed. Also, Illinois Attorney General Jim Ryan said his state will become the 16th to sue the tobacco companies. 
All the states are keeping an eye on Minnesota, where Humphrey's efforts have pro­duced a warehouse full of tobac­co industry documents. 
One, a November 1977 memo about a researcher's efforts, written by Philip Morris scientist William Dunn, suggests a cover­up should the results prove damaging about nicotine's effects. 
"If she is able to demonstrate, as she anticipates, no withdraw­al effects of nicotine, we will want to pursue this avenue with some vigor. If, however, the results with nicotine are similar to those gotten with morphine and caffein (sic), we will want to bury it," Dunn wrote. "Accordingly, there are only two copies of this memo, the one attached and the original which I have." 
Other documents refer to the acquisition of the Institut fur Forschung GmbH, or INBIFO, in Cologne, Germany. An internal Philip Morris memo written by Helmut Wakeham in April 1970 recommends going ahead with the purchase "since this is a locale where we might do some of the things which we are reluctant to do in this country." 
Undated handwritten notes found in the files of Thomas Osdene, former director of research for Philip Morris, say all documents should be shipped to Cologne. "If IMPORTANT let­ters have to be sent please send to home -I will act on these & destroy." 
A March 1977 letter from Robert Seligman, Philip Morris vice president for research and development, suggested that written data be routed through a Philip Morris subsidiary in Switzerland "if we are to avoid direct contact with INBIFO and Philip Morris U.S.A." 
The state of Minnesota con­tends in papers filed Tuesday that the German research lab is part of "mounting evidence ... of purposefully using third parties to maintain their documents, apparently to preclude discov­ery." 


struggles and survives 



L---------------l~ Your one-of-a-kind source for everything you need to know. 
By ED McCULLOUGH 
Associated Press Writer 

PORT-AU-PRINCE 
Haiti's president is guarded at his desk by Americans and in his motorcade by Canadians. 
Two years after American troops swept ashore to oust a bloody military regime, Haiti's democracy is fragile and beset by grinding poverty and politi­cal instability -and sustained in part by the implicit threat of foreign military force. 
"If you want to understand Haiti, you've got to view it as a process. There are no short­term solutions," U.S. Ambassador William Swing said this week. "Progress is being made and the country is moving forward." 
Signs of that progress include: 
•Terror 
no longer rules Haiti's streets. The U.S.-led intervention on Sept. 19, 1994, marked the end of a regime that had killed at least 4,000 civilians since it staged a coup in 1991. The exiled president, Jean-Bertrand Aristide, returned home. 

•The 
intervention ended the exodus of thousands of Haitian boat people, fleeing poverty and repression, to the United States. 

•Haiti's 
armed forces. responsible for most of the civilian deaths, were disband­ed. 

•A 
presidential election was held in December, and a peace­ful transfer of power -a rarity in Haiti's 192-year history ­took place in February. 

•The 
U.S. force, which once numbered 20,000 troops, was replaced by U.N. peacekeepers in 1995. The last American combat troops left in April. 


But there have been setbacks as well. 
A U.N.-trained civilian police force has been unable to stop a months-old crime wave. Parliament has been slow to adopt economic measures that are a condition for more than 

(6th Street Shuttle to and from the game) 
ROYAL WAR 
MEMOORIA·~.STAOIUM
6Jhe 
~ 

..­
·:.<~\·

Oriainar J 
qrish 9?u& in Austin 
~TH5TREET 
Maggie Mae's 

$300 million in foreign aid. Foreign investment has yet to materialize. 
The former soldiers, while demobilized, remain a problem. President Rene Preval's gov­ernment blamed them for armed attacks last month on the national police headquar­ters and the legislative build­ing. 
Even Preval's own body­guards are being investigated for possible corruption, accord­ing to a Preval aide who spoke on condition of anonymity. Two of the bodyguards were reas­signed, and the unit is now being retrained under U.S. supervision. 
The United States says Preval was never in any danger. But with the U.S. presidential elec­tion just six weeks away, the Clinton administration took out an insurance policy on its suc­cesses in Haiti by sending in 40 State Department security agents last week to help protect Pre val. 
The presence of the U.S. agents reinforced some Haitians' view that a foreign military presence is needed to prop up Haiti's democracy. 
"In my humble opinion, I don't see how Preval can stay in power without multinational support," said Leslie Manigat, a university professor who was president for four months in 1988 before he was toppled in a coup. 
Haitians expected prosperity to accompany liberty, but their country remains the poorest in the Western Hemisphere. 
Annual inflation, while on the decline, is about 18 percent, and 65 percent of Haiti's people are jobless. Per-capita income is $340, less than a dollar a day for Haiti's 7.3 million people. 
"The people don't feel they are really in power," Aristide, long a champion of Haiti's poor, said in a paid radio spot this week that criticized Preval, his former prime minister. "Disappointment and disorder make people feel nothing has changed." 
The uncertainty extends to those trying to invest in Haiti's future. 
Paul Robert left Haiti 10 years ago and now works in an electrical parts factory in Long Island. Since the U.S.-led inter­vention, he has returned home frequently to help a group that provides hot meals for street kids. 
"I think I might stay in Haiti, open a hardware store," the softspoken 32-year-old said, sitting in a band shell in a downtown plaza where rice and beans are ladled out. "But if it all falls apart again? I can't decide." 
The United States and its partners in the U.N. Haiti mis­sion vow not to let that happen. 
In July, the United States began rotating small groups of troops in and out of Haiti to protect American military engi­neers building roads and wells. Pentagon officials say their presence also underscores a 
U.S. commitment to democracy. The mandate for the 1,250 
U.N. peacekeeping troops in Haiti ends Nov. 30, while the 500-member American military contingent -including engi­neers, medical corpsmen and about 130 troops -is set to leave June 30. 
U.S. and U.N. officials stop short of saying those deadlines will be extended -but they can be, if needed. 

Wednesday, September 18, 1996

page 8 The Observer • NEWS 
r • • •
••••••••••... ....... ...•:•"• ,... ...
•.a.• ..• ••••••••• 
r .. .. ,..'-... ..
.. ................. ..
... ... ... .. I J~§}nu 
A film series offering movies as they were meant to be experienced. Classic films. Big Screen. Bargain price. 
WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 18 2:00 and 7:00P.M. 
Anna , 
24th Annual SuJDJDer PrograJDs 
ND-SMC Students 
Meeting October 7th Carroll Hall, SMC 7:00p.m. 
London Ro1ne 
May 21-June 20 June 1S-July 14 
Travel in Ireland, Scotland, France, Germany, and Switzerland 
Courses Offered in Business &: Economics, Education, English, History, Italian, Justice, Music 
PIZZA! 
Past Students and Faculty will be present. For information call Prof. Black at284-4460 or 272-3726 
• BOSNIA 
Izetbegovic confident of win 
By JUDITH INGRAM 
Associated Press Writer 
SARAJEVO 

Bosnian Muslim leader Alija Izetbegovic seemed assured Tuesday of becoming chairman of the country's new three­member presidency as election officials neared the end of their tally. 
Even before final results were in, foreign envoys were press­ing Izetbegovic to start working on the institutions meant to steer the country away from war and separatism. 
Despite an increasingly nationalist tone from lzetbegovic's party, diplomats are counting on the 72-year-old president's desire to keep Bosnia whole. 
The two halves of the country -the Muslim-Croat federation and a Serb republic -will enjoy a high degree of autono­my. The key to holding Bosnia together will be avoiding grid­lock, beginning with the presi­dency. 
The peace plan for Bosnia called for a three-way presi· dency shared by a Muslim, a Serb and a Croat. The one with the highest number of votes is chairman for two years. 
With 85 percent of the Muslim and Croat ballots and 79 percent of the Serb vote counted, Izetbegovic had 629,000 votes to 501,000 for Momcilo Krajisnik, a Serb nationalist who campaigned on the platform to break up Bosnia. Kresimir Zubak of the main Croat party had 245,000 votes. 
The margin between the two top vote-getters was expected to narrow somewhat as more Serb polling· stations reported, said Nicole Szulc, director of the media center where results were being released. Final results were expected Wednesday. 
Izetbegovic's team was ecsta­tic. 
His party "will certainly pop the champagne tonight," said Mirza Hajric, a close aide to the Bosnian president. 
The 1995 Dayton peace accord that devised the elec­tions and postwar institutions spells out no specific powers for the chairman. Instead, his power is more symbolic. As the official who presents 
r Bosnia's image to the world, 
r 
the chairman will be the chief target of international pressure to hold the country together rather than break it into ethnic republics. 
The success of the effort will help determine how many international peace troops will stay beyond the end of their mission in December, and for how long. 
In the election campaign, Izetbegovic's party warned that if Muslims did not turn out, or split their votes between com­peting Muslim-led parties, Krajisnik could well be the country's next leader. 
Krajisnik was a senior deputy to Radovan Karadzic, the Bosnian Serb leader who has been indicted by the U.N. war crimes tribunal. He also was a senior member of the party that led the Serbs throughout the 3 1/2-year·war. In his campaign, he advocated the breakup of Bosnia and independence for its Serbs. 
His election to the presidency of a unified state will pose enough of a problem. But had he risen to the chairmanship, things would have been far 


POW and MIA 
Observance Day 
• Sept. 19  Prayer Service  
5:00p.m.; Grotto  
• Sept. 19-20  24 Hour Vigil  
5:30 p.m.-5:00 p.m.  
Field House Mall  
• Sept. 20  Retreat  
5:00p.m.  
South Quad Flagpole  

/oin the ArnoldAir Society and remember the men and women who sacrificed great/JI for our country. We will never forget their aptions 

more difficult, Western diplo­mats said. 
Members of the presidency will be able to make decisions by a two-thirds vote. But a dis­senting member can refer such decision to members of his eth­nic group in parliament, which can override them by a two­thirds vote. 
Reflect Remember Resolve 

'Crazy Jill' opens fire, self-inflicts stab wound 
ByDAVEIVEY 
Associated Press Writer 
STATE COLLEGE 
A 19-year-old woman with a Mohawk haircut spread out a tarp in the middle of the Penn State University campus Tuesday and opened fire with a rifle, killing one student and wounding another before she was tackled while trying to reload. 
Jillian Robbins, a hunter with Army Reserve training who acquaintances said had a histo­ry of mental problems and was known as "Crazy Jill," was hospitalized in serious condi­tion with a stab wound suffered in a struggle with the student who came to the rescue and knocked her down. 
No immediate charges were filed against Robbins, who is a longtime resident of State College but not a student. 
Police gave no motive for the shooting and said Robbins did not know her victims. 
Robbins positioned herself in front of the student union and fired off at least five shots from 
Appearing LIVE at the 
402 EAST MADISON 
Fri., September 20: Sam Lay Sat., September 21: Mr. Frog 
3:00p.m.-3:00a.m. 

Friday: SOcr Oysters SO¢ Shrimp 
EXCELLENT FOOD till I a.m. Thurs., Fri., Sat. 
FRIDAYS: blues SATURDAYS: classic rock-alternative-retro national and regional acts 
her rifle, a Mauser with a tele­scopic sight, around 9:30 a.m., police said. Hundreds of fright­ened students and teachers scattered across the lawn out­side the Hetzel Union Building, one of the campus' busiest areas. 
A book in one student's back­pack stopped a bullet. 
Aerospace engineering stu­dent Brendon Malovrh noticed smoke, ran over and tackled Robbins as she was putting in a second ammunition clip, police said. 
As the two struggled, Robbins pulled a knife from her purse and tried to stab Malovrh, stab­bing herself in the leg instead, police said. Malovrh quickly took off his belt and fashioned a tourniquet on Robbins. 
In front of them lay a dead Melanie Spalla, 19, of Altoona. Nicholas Mensah, 27, of Philadelphia, had been shot once in the abdomen. He was in stable condition. 
"This is a high-traffic area, where lots of people ride their bikes. It's freaky to know this happened here." 

~---~--------~ 
VIEWPOINT 
Wednesday,September 18, 1996 page 9 


Editor-in-Chief Managing Editor/Viewpoint Spons News/Photo Accent/Saint Mary's Day Ediwr/Prm!uction (;cncrallnformarion 
THE OBSERVER 
NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1996-97 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Elizabeth Foran Managing Editors Business Manager Patricia Carson Man Casey Tom Roland 
Nc:wo Editor ........................ Brad Pr<ndergast Advertising Manager............................ Ellen Ryan Viewpoint Editor...................Ethan Hayward Ad Design Manager ...............................Jed Peters Spona Editor .....................Timothy Sherman Production Manager.......................Tara Grieshop A<:<:ent Editor...........................joey Crawford Systems Manager ....................... Michael Brouillet 
Saint Mary'• Editor................. Caroline Blum Controller....••....................................Tyler Weber Phoro Editor •.•••.•••.••••••.......... M ichacl Ruma 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies ofthe administra­tion ofeither institution. The news is reponM as accul'iltdy and objccrivdy as possible. Unsigned edi­torials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief. Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor. Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, lenen and Inside Columns prescnr the views of the aurhors, and not necessarily rhose ofThe Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's com­munity and ro all readers. The free expression ofvarying opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 
631-4542  Business Office  631-5313  
631-4541  Advertising  631-6900/8840  
631-4543  Systems/Marketing Dept.  631-8839  
631-5323  Office Manager  631-7471  
631-4540  Fax  631-6927  
631-5303  Viewpoint  E-Mail  Viewpoint.! @nd.edu  
631-7471  Ad E-Mail  observer@darwin.cc.nd.edu  

• fRIVOLATA 
Scoping out the night-life in the Windy City 
I just realized that, in my first column of thH year, not once did I welcome the nHwcomers to the ND/SMC community. !low downright rude of me! I assure you that this was unintentional, and want to apologize. And while this may be a little belated, let me extend a warm welcome to you all. 
Last year, to give new Domers a sense 
Kirsten Dunne 

of what a spncial place they were in. I described how wonderful my seven years in the 'Bend were. and lamented over how much I missed it. That's not my plan this time around. Not that I don't cherish my college and. law school yHars, of course-l'd gladly stay in school for the rest of my life! I just don't know that reminiscing is all that con­structive, and I'm sure it makes me sound likn one of those obnoxious alum­ni you find in such abundance on home­game weekends ("Iley, this building wasn't here when I graduated in 1956!"). So instead, I'm going to give people something they can really use. Lilt'S facll it: most students want out of South Bllnd whenever possible, and Chicago is not far away. While I was at ND, people were constantly going to Chicago for weekends, and I imagine things haven't changed much in that n1gard. The problem, though, is that these weekend roadtrippers often have not the slightest inkling how to get around the city, and don't even know the names of the cool places to go. Well, guys. I'm not going to waste my column space on something as staid as giving you directions around Chi-town, but I will at least offer some suggestions on the better clubs in town. 
'A note of precaution: I'm not big on the sit-around-and-get-loaded bars, so if that's what you're looking for, the fol­lowing might not prove all that helpful. Of course, if that's what you seek, you don't have to travel out of South Bend, and my impression has been that most people who come to Chicago for the nighttime hangouts go for something a little different-i.e., clubs. That being said;here are some ideas for you: 
Crobar (not to be confused with Crow Bar). This is Dennis Rodman's favorite hangout, and that alone makes it worth checking out. The one possible draw­back .for you Domers is that the club is far cooler on Wednesdays and Thursdays than on weekends, Wednesday nights. being Dennis' favorite night to go, and Thursdays having recently been deemed "post-mortem" nights. Even if you can't make it during the week, though, don't despair-the weekend crowd is a little on the trendy side, but the music is decent. What's more, Crobar features a tattoo parlor and a body-piercing stand on the upper level-something you sure won't find at Linebacker or Club 23! Don't be put off by that if you're on the conservative side, though. Everyone I know who's been to Crobar-from the mainstream to the eccentric-enjoys it, and no matter what your style, I can almost guarantee that you'll feel welcome inside. 
Shelter. Another of Dennis' hangouts. and in my opinion, a better weekend hangout that Crobar. The music is easy to describe: it's continuous deep­house/hip-hop mixes. While I've always enjoyed this music (I'm really eclectic when it comes to music, you see), I've traditionally steered clear of clubs which feature it, because I can't stand the crowds they usually attract. "Hi, I'm beautiful, and I know you can't resist me." PLEASE! Thankfully, the Shelter crowd isn't like that, giving one the rare opportunity to enjoy house music in a club setting without all the attitude. Sometimes you'll find jewelry for sale in the women's bathroom (I can't vouch for the men's, but I wouldn't be surprised). What's more, if you flip through the Chicago Reader, you're very likely to find a free admission clip-out coupon in the clubs section. In short, I can't .think of any reason NOT to go to Shelter! (And no, I am not getting paid to say this.) 
Ka-Boom! In stark contrast to Shelter, the crowd in Ka-Boom!'s main room­the house room-is pretentious indeed, and from what I've seen, they have no particular reason to be so. If you can brush this off, though, you can have a great time atKa-Boom!. My favorite part about it is the diversity in music-aside from the house dance floor, there's also a disco room, a pseudo-gothic room, and a place to just sit and play pool (where the music is, yet again, of a new beat). Like Shelter. the decor is way cool, and the place is huge ... of course, they charge a $10 cover, so it damn well should be! However, cost and attitude aside, I high­ly recommend that you try Ka-Boom! at least once. 
The Exit. My favorite club of all, this place is industrial heaven. It used to look like a small prison from the outside, but recently they've painted a large smi­ley-face on the building to show that it's really a friendly sort of atmosphere. (Please don't be persuaded otherwise by the skull and cross-bones on the sign.) On the lower level at Exit, one can play pool or simply sit on a stool or a station­ary motorcycle listening to some good music and chatting with friends. (I might add that making new friends at Exit is perhaps easier than it is at other clubs­if you're like my friend Steffani and are unafraid to go up and begin talking to a complete stranger, chances are you will have made a new pal, rather than hav­ing been rebuffed as a complete lunatic.) Upstairs, you can lie on a couch, sit in a plush chair, or dance your brains out. As with the Shelter, you can probably find yourself a free pass in the Reader or a music .store, and once inside, you can load up on as many as you like. Of course, if you don't like industrial and gothic music, my prediction is that you'll be bored off your butt at the Exit. I guess I should warn you, too, that if you're mainstream as far as appearance goes, you may feel a bit out of place among this crowd, where black leather, mohawks and combat boots are the norm. On the other hand, no one is going to ostracize you simply because you look like you walked out of a J. Crew catalog-as I said before, this is really a friendly place! So if you person­ally are comfortable with possibly stand­ing out from the crowd, come on down to the Exit! (If, however, the diversity of the Coach's crowd continues to amaze you, you might want to start out some­where else.) 
As you are no doubt aware, there are many, many other bars and clubs in Chicago; I'm merely listing my favorites for you to get you started. But no matter where you choose to go, keep in mind that it's not quite as easy for you to get into a drinking establishment in Chi­town as it was, last time I heard, in South Bend. I know for a fact, as one example, that you may get asked for two forms of I.D. at Crobar. So come pre­pared with fakes! You might be asking: "Is there somewhere in Chicago where I can get a good fake I.D.?" Sorry, kids, I can't help you on that one. It's been five years since I've had to deal with this issue personally, and even if I knew where to tell you to go, doing so would probably violate the principles of DuLac. I'll just say that I know lots of underage people, and they all have fakes. Take it from there, and enjoy your neJ;lt week­end trip to the Windy City! 
Kirsten Dunne, ND '93, ND Law '96, works for Goldberg, Weisman & Cairo, Ltd. in Chicago. 
GARRY TRUDEAU
• 000NESBURY 
t/J&'P UK$ UHOF Y()(JTO A{)()J>fON& OR MORE B4RK5, U#P£/WRmNG 0PffRATION5... 
IN #CRAM?£, TH~ 8/U... SPatF/~ THAT THe' INTE­RIOR 5E:CI?£7:4/?Y {,(1/U. GlUNT YW UM11cP Ra;.oG/VI1/0N 
OF YOUR 5ftJNSOR?HIP 
tufTH TH£ 

-J]j-~ PARKS! 
• QuOTE OF THE DAY 
"Ifyou think education is expensive, try ignorance." 
-DerekBok 

..----~--~~---~----­
7-\CC6

page 10 Wednesday, September 18, 1996 

A tri ute to 
By DAN CICHALSKI most. It had "wonderful, scratchy drawings, ... Assistant Accent Editor bold design and color [on Sundays], ... kooky, aus­
O
tere Arizona landscapes, and [a] bizarre conglom­n November 18, 1985, the comics pages of eration of Spanish, slang, literary allusion, dialect. thirty-five newpapers were forever changed and mispronunciation." for the better. Soon though, "Calvin and In drawing "Calvin and Hobbes," Watterson Hobbes" would be carried in hundreds of newspa­would often "hold a blank sheet of paper, stare into pers across the country and around the world. space, and let [his) mind wander." The process is 
Bill Watterson, the creator and father of the the terrible tyke and his two-toned tiger, combined his background as a writer with early cartoon influ­ences to create one of the most popular strips of the late 1980s and early 90s. 
Watterson is a quiet man who enjoys his privacy and, as a result of his love for a life out of the public eye, little is known about him. He attended Kenyon College in Gambier, Ohio, and, as he states in The Calvin and Hobbes Tenth Anniversary Book, "I think I learned to be a writer so I could draw for a living." 
Three comic strips were instrumental in steering Watterson toward his ten-year career as a daily cartoonist: Charles Schulz's "Peanuts," Walt Kelly's "Pogo," and George Herriman's "Krazy Kat." It was Schulz's ever-popular "round-headed kid" and his friends that became the impetus and sent Watterson down the road to Toontown. 
"Peanuts" attracted Watterson for its basic appeal as a comic strip. The influence of Kelly's style can be seen in any of the "Calvin and Hobbes" strips with Spaceman Spiff or dinosaurs-"Pogo" was a busy strip with art more elaborate than usually found on the funny pages. It was also a strip with interesting, amusing, and often random dialogue. "Krazy Kat," though, impressed Watterson the 
By BRYAN FURZE 
Accent Writer 
' In a newspaper full of surprising horrors, it's a 
comforting little ritual to see our favorite char­
acters each morning for a few seconds over cof­fee. They become friends of sorts." 
Bill Watterson made this statement while he was still writing Calvin and Hobbes on a daily basis. The adventures of a six year old and his stuffed tiger joyed readers for ten years and then came to a sud­den, unexpected end. 
What is the real story behind these characters? Who are they and from where do they come? For all of you out there who have faithfully followed their escapades, here is a quick look back at two of the most beloved cartoon heroes of our time. 
Calvin, of course, is one half of the team that is the heart of this comic strip. He is a six year old child who thrives upon driving his parents, teacher, princi­pal, and of course Susie Derkins bonkers while taking on several alternate personalities ranging from a Tyrannosaurus Rex to Spaceman Spiff to Tracer Bullet, a private detective. His soul mate is his old stuffed tiger Hobbes. Bill Watterson explains that Calvin is not, as many believe, a biographical sketch of his children or of himself as a child. Watterson actually has no children, and was Calvin's antithesis appare_ntly sometimes long and seemingly unpro-~ ductive. But the finished product, whether it was a E simple, one-panel weekday strip or an intricate, r six-scene Sunday story, always brought at least a 
smile to reader's faces, if not blatant laughter. 
When an idea hits Watterson, who often draws outside where there is more action to stimulate a concept, he then looks at it "through Calvin's eyes. 


Faces of laughter: the 
as a child. Rather, Watterson says Calvin represents the child within him now. 
The second half of the team is of course Hobbes, a stuffed tiger from whom Calvin is inseparable. He is quite humanesque in many ways, yet retains his feline instincts, seen perhaps most clearly as he tack­les an unsuspecting Calvin. Hobbes is a biographical sketch of one of Watterson's four cats, Sprite. Watterson sees Hobbes as his ideal friend and states that the discrepancy of Hobbes' existence-alive in Calvin's eyes and stuffed in the eyes of the world­represents the subjective nature of reality. 
A great deal of the strip's humor stemmed from Calvin's parents. These characters were never given names as they were intended to act solely as Calvin's parents. A difficult job has been tasked to these two and they do their best with it. Watterson actually credits them highly, saying "I think they do a better job than I would." Calvin's father is a conglomera­tion of a self-portrait of Watterson and Watterson's own father. Calvin's mom is an original creatio which Watterson struggl&<> to develop betwee Calvin's outbursts. 
Susie Derkins and Moe are the only other name 
children in the strip. Calvin is suspected of having 
mild crush on Susie. She is everything Calvin isn' 
and what Watterson looked for in a girl, and found i 
the woman he married. Susie's last name wa 
Watterson's wife's Beagle's name. 
Wednesday, September 18, 1996 

•
I 

alvin's personality dictates a range of possible !actions to any subjeet." After ehecking his ideas rith his wife, who also serves as an editor and l.augh-o-meter," Watterson then inks the strips, onwtimes finishing an entire week-Sunday 
cludnd-in one day. 
OVI~r the ynars, Watterson has come up with some 1niqtw and dever ideas. a difficult task in an age 
lwre nearly everything is copyrighted and sml. Not only did he develop several adorable ~turning eharaeters but he also managed to invent 
trageous storylines that make Calvin and llobbes ueh special eharactnrs. 1 There was the time when a dog knocked Calvin 1 vt~r and ran away with Hobbes, making Calvin's fe for the nnxt fnw days a living hell. Eventually, 
ACCENT. 

Calvin stopped by Susie's to ask if she'd seen his pal and found him sitting at the tea table with Mr. Bunny. 
Then there was the time Calvin turned his Transmogrilier into a time machine and went to visit the dinosaurs. Then he turned it into a rocket ship and visited Mars. Then he made it a duplica­tor and created six copies of himself that turned out to be more trouble than they were worth. 
And there was always adventures with Rosalyn, the babysitter; Moe, the class bully (and other lias­cos in school); games of Calvinball in the yard; and the ultra-important Get Rid Of Slimy girlS (G.H.O.S.S.) club. 
With Calvin, there was always a way to look into the past, into the wonderful days of childhood and youth, to a time when girls were the enemy and the most important Saturday ritual was waking up at dawn to catch the first cartoons of the morning with a big bowl of sugar-loaded cereal. 
But today's funny pages are a little less funny without that spike-}laired kid (the original, by the way-even before Bart Simpson) and his stuffed tiger. Administrative differences between Watterson and his bosses led to the cartoonist's decision to retire from the daily strip scene at the end of 1995. 
"Calvin and Hobbes" fans can only hope that bet­ter days are ahead when Watterson will return on a larger scale. Perhaps soon, Barnes and Noble will carry a new "Calvin and Hobbes" collection, not of strips, of course, but new and different ideas and forms. And maybe Calvin and Hobbes will be the star of the next prime-time television cartoon hit. 
One can onlyhope. 
SO!t\E~£ J\JS\ DAAru> 8£11\ND THI\1 -mE£. SEf., l\\E.RE 1\E ~ ~tt-l! 
I~'T ~~ 0.\.'4\N? 

by Bill Watterson 
1\IE. l~WA'i/QS W..'#E SPOm:D \11\'o\! em. 11E~ I~RATI;.') 1\\t. £ME.Ia.>9lct .ItT l'tt..C~ \.IE. IK "IS Poci(ET, ~D ~ 
R:IR ThKt.Oft! 
page 11 

• ACCENT SPEAKS... 
Growing up with the funnies 


By CATHERINE DEELY Editor 


"So you see, all a. comic strip really is, is thousands of tiny colored dots on porous paper." I can still see the smug set on my elementary school science teacher's face as she passed around that ancient magnifying glass, making all of us peer iqshocked revelation at the blur of points making up what had formerly just been Hngar the Horrible. 
Of course, I knew then, as I do now, that she was wrong. That is not. never has been, and never will be, all a comic strip really is. 
They started out as old friends.• pored over on snowy Sunday mornings with a mug of hot chocolate in hand. There were Nancy and Odie and the kids from "Family Circus·~:....an pieces from days filled with the Sm'urfs on Saturday mornings and jelly bracelets and Velcro sneakers used for traction in recess dodge hall. They served as entertairi:tuent, as laughter, as fun in its most innocent form. 
As time passed by, the strips marked as favorites shifted subtly: teenage years meant more of au appreciation for Garfield's cynicism, Cathy's romantic traumas, and espe· cially the off-the-wall brilliance of th(;l two recently deceased Great Ones: "The Far Side" and "Calvin and Hobbes". The punchlines were no longer just.excuses for 
. sidesplitting laughter; they became symbols of adolescent identity~'Taped inside locker doors, mounted at odd angles on bEidrooni walls, painted in Technicolor on the knees of well·worn Levis ... slowly, comics emerged as culture. 
When parents screamed and siblings tormented, there was Blondie and Dagwood's house to disappear to. When life reached depths of complex messiness too great to be absorbed, the simplicity of the "Peanuts" gang made it all go away. •~ at least for a little while. · 
Uke life ~tself, time has marched on in comic strips; the names have changed, familiar faces have gone their sepa­rat&ways:Thoseofus who were weaned on Linus' blanket and called Marmaduke the family dog have changed as well. We\re older, bigger. busier ... almost grown-ups. one might say, with only the slightest shudder of disbelief. 
But a single fact stands clear and on its own: we know, just like we did back in grade school, that comic strips are so much more than dots on a piece of paper. 
Catherine Deely is''··~ a sophomore who spends all of her time . . comic strips, and thinks you should too. 


characters of 'Calvin and Hobbes' 
Moe is simply a bully. He is a conglomeration of every jerk Watterson has ever known. Watterson says of Moe's type: "I think they spawn on damp lock­er room floors." 
Finally, Hosalyn and Miss Wor.mwood are Calvin's arch enemies. Rosalyn is his baby-sitter and greatest fear. She is a tough character who refuses to be pushP.d around. She even seems to scare Calvin's 

parents. Watterson origi­nally planned to use her only once, but she amused him, so she stayed. 
Miss Wormwood is Calvin's teacher. She is just waiting for retire­ment and believes in the value of education. Thus, as Watterson says, "she's an unhappy person." 
These are the faces of "Calvin and Hobbes". We laughed with them for ten great years and then they departed. Calvin once found a small rac­coon that had been hurt adopted the raccoon and kept it warm and prayed for it, but it died the next morning. Calvin was devastat­ed. During a rare tender moment between father and son, Calvin says to his dad, 'Tm crying because out there he's gone, but he's not gone inside me ... I didn't even know he existed a few days ago, and now he's gone forever ... I had to say good-bye as soon as I said hello. Still ... in a sad, awful, terrible way, I'm happy I met him." Readers everywhere were devas­tated by the sudden retirement of Calvin and Hobbes and though they are missed each day when the comics are read, readers are in some small way glad that they had the privilege of knowing Calvin and all of his friends. 
in his backyard. HeL______________________________________________________________________________________________________j 
-
-------_.......-----~ 

-----~------~------­
Wednesday, September 18, 1996 The Observer • SPORTS page 12 
• CFl 

To0101ie Frazier's football future re01ains questionable 
Associated Press 
OMAHA, Neb. 

Former Nebraska quarter­back Tommie Frazier has been released from the hospital af­ter being treated for pneumo­nia, but it appears he could be out of action for the rest of his rookie season in the Canadian Football League. 

Frazier was admitted to Montreal General Hospital on Sept. 4. He was released Saturday, but Montreal Alouettes general manager Jim Popp said the backup quarter­back has been placed on the disabled list. 

"I would say probably the odds are he's finished for the season," Popp told the Omaha World-Herald. "It's not a defi­nite. It's just because of the re­cuperation time we only have six regular-season games left. There's still a good chance he could come back. But it's best that he does rest and get his body good and strong." 
Popp said Frazier has been put on blood thinners as a pre­caution because of two previ­ous blood clots in his right leg while at Nebraska and after he spit up blood the day he was hospitalized. 
He said tests were run to de­termine if Frazier's clots had returned, but those results will not be available until later in the week. 

Popp said Frazier's latest setback doesn't mean his CFL career is finished. He said as long as Frazier is on the dis­abled list because of a non­football-related injury, he can return at any time. 
"I've told him as long as I have a job, he'll always have a chance for a job," Popp said. "He's a great leader, and he makes a lot of good decisions. He can be an outstanding quarterback in the CFL as long as he wants to play. 
"If his health allows him, he'll always have an opportu­nity here. I hope for his sake, he'll be 100 percent healthy before he moves any further with football." 
Frazier, the Heisman Trophy runner-up in 1995 who was bypassed in the NFL draft after leading Nebraska to consecu­tive national championships, signed with Montreal on June 19. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. 
Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
Classifieds 

NOTICES  I HAVE A GREAT -HOPEFULLY PROFITABLE -IDEA FOR A COM­ 4 DAVE MATTHEWS TIX 4 SALE CALL 272-3229  NEED 2 OHIO ST. TICKETS G.A.or S.A. Please call ANNE  WANTED TO BUY OHIO STATE OR WASH. VS. ND.D TIX-CALL  OHIO STATE GA ONE AV FOR SALE  
PUTER GAME. NEED ASSOCI­ @634-3847.  DAVE (614)764-7355  CALL (910)72S-7543  
SKYDIVEII  ATES TO HELP WITH IT. CALL  '87 Mazda 323, Air,  FOR PRICE INFO  
Experience the ULTIMATE  TOM 288-S6S5.  Automatic, 90k, Blue  NEED 4 GAs for WASH  Need Texas tickets for family who  
of all sports  Great Condition  call CHRISSY@ 273-2SBO  lives in area. Call Samantha at 4­ *******Need 4 Air Force Tix••••••  
Training students for over  Hundereds of Students Are Earning  Call John 631-6414  2S50.  Please call MB at 4-1759.  
30 years  Free Spring Break Trips & Moneyl  Need 1 OSU ticket  
1 hour North of South Bend  Sell 8 Trips & Go Freel Bahamas  92 JETTA 67K SSP, CRUISE,  Call Greg at 2318  n. d. tickets for sale  ############  
Call lor class times  Cruise $279, Cancun & Jamaica  SUNROOF, +. $8,500 287-1521  271 1635  Need 2 OSU tix  
GREAT LAKES SKYDIVERS  $399, Panama City/Daytona $119!  ***Hey!*** Help me find two  Will pay cashl  
1-800-351-6617  www.springbreaktravel.com  '78 SILVER ANNIVERSARY  Washington GAs for my parent's  $NEED OSU, WASH, & AF TIX  Angela 271-1867  
1-616-628-4892  1-800-678-6386  CORVETTE, 30,000 MILES.  first ND game, call lnga @ X2S38  216-99S-1902 5-7 PM EDT M-F  
$9,500 FIRM.  216-6SO-S264 7-9 PM EDT M-F  HAVE OSU & WASH. TIX  
Asian Int. Society Meeting  ***FREE TRIPS & CASH***  CALL 243-0658.  SELLING 1 Ohio State GA b/o  (GAs &STUDS) 271-8279.  
Mont. Theater, Latf student centre  Find out how hundreds of student  4-0931.  NO ALUM NEEDS  ######################  
19 sep, 7pm  representatives are already earning  12 Speed touring bike  OSU/WASH/AF/RUT/PITT TIX  
FREE TRIPS and LOTS OF CASH  Kevelar Wave tires Aero bars  NEED TIX -HOME GAMES  CALL MIKE 212-372-7214  Need GA's for Air Force, Pitt &  
Entertainment Electronics Co.  with America's #1 Spring Break  $17S.OO (219)262-3739  312-9S1-5008  Rutgers. Call Jay @287-3736  
3S09 Grape Rd (@Classic Stereo)  company! Sell only 15 trips and  Need tickets for N.D.-Texas  
25S-1172  travel !reel Cancun, Bahamas,  COMPUTER 4 SALE  BUYING N.D. FOOTBALL TICK­ Sept.21 Call 1-800-840-3548  WANTED: Washington tickets. stu­ 
Hrs: M-F 11-S Sat. 10-2  Mazatlan, Jamaica, or Florida!  Mac Classic w/ software, modem,  ETS, PUBLIC AND FACULTY  dent or GA. Call Nathan at 4-2031  
You break it, we'll fix illII  CAMPUS MANAGER POSITIONS  printer $300 Patti -1329  SEATS CALL 1-800-2SS-2850  NEED FOOTBALL TIX CALL 233­ 
ALSO AVAILABLE. Call Nowl  S719 FOR BILL-ANY GAMES  I need 6 OSU tickets  
THAT PRETTY PLACE, Bed and  TAKE A BREAK STUDENT TRAV­ Preferred tailgate parking pass  Will pay high prices or  
Breakfast Inn has space available  EL  Get your genuine  needed for OSU game. Will pay  NEED 2-4 GA TIX  will trade BULLS tickets!  
for football wknds. 5 Rooms with  (800)9S-BREAK!  Irish Kilts  $$$.Call Matt at (614)469-360S.  ALL HOME GAMES.  Call Jason @ x122S  
private baths, $70 -$90,  in time for football season! Hand  CALL 276-2010/288-2877 AFT S  
Middlebury, 30 miles from campus.  Looking for an outgoing public rela­ crafted, Black watch plaid.  TICKETS WANTED -Will pay pre­ WILL TRADE 2 WASH GAS  
Toll Road, Exit #107,  tions rep. to represent a chiropractic  Call now ............................ 288-0116  mium price for 4 tickets for the  Need Ohio State tickets.  AND/OR $ FOR 2 OSU GAS  
1-800-418-9487  center at local health screenings.  NO/Ohio State game on Sat. 28th.  Call anytime. 302-832-7786  CALL KEVIN X3286  
ILOST & FOUND I  Paid training. Part time. Average $8 -$9/hour. For more information call (219)282-2828.  1988 Honda CRX, rare automatic, all maintenance receipts available.  No student tickets please. "Dynamite" seats only. Call Bill/Anna at 800-457-0486.  NEED OSU TIXI WILLING TO BUY OR TRADE I  BAND PARENTS!! need 4 GA Air Force  
94,000 miles, call Ray/Jacky  CALL4-1440  call collect  
REWARDII If anyone has or knows  COLLEGE COUPONS -the student  219/243-9182, $4500/best  NEED 2 OR 4 WASH. GAs. FOR  (414) 208-1632  
someone who has my black  coupon book you love to use is  PARENTS. HAVE 2 RUTGERS  TRADE ONLY -2 WA GAs for 2  
Jansport backpack with a camara  seeking a local sales representa­ 87 Mazda 323 129K SSP AC  GAs. WILL PAY OR TRADE.  OSU GAs -273-8379.  HAVE: 2 Pitt GA's, 2 Air Force  
and datebook inside, I will  tive! Earn $7/hr. or MOREl Put your  $2,300 Call 256-5523  CALL DAVE@ 4-1913  GA's. NEED: 2 Wash. GA's or Stu  
gladly give a reward tor its returnII  sales experience to good use. Must  ND DAD NEEDS TWO (2) GAs  tix. Call (610)530-0156  
Please, I would really, really,really  have car. Call 800/767-8393 ask for  Grad Non-Degree Student needs  FOR PURDUE, OHIO STATE AND  
appreciate ill I NO QUESTIONS  Janet.  Real Men Wear Kilts  GA tickets to any games.  WASHINGTON. CALL LARRY  I have 2 Air Force & 2 Rutgers  
ASKEDII  Order your Irish Kilt nowl  Call Val at 243-0798.  (219)422-6088  G.A.s -I need 4 PITT G.A.'s-Call  
Call 634-1403.  LARGE REAL ESTATE CO NR.  Call 288-0116  Shawn 215-676-6685  
CAMPUS IS SEEKING RELIABLE  BUYING G.A.'S FOOTBALL  DESPERATELY NEED WASH.  
***Please Helplll*** I lost my keys ori Purdue Saturday.lt's 3 keys on a Corona  PERSON FOR PART-TIME RECEPTIONIST POSITION. HOURS ARE  TICKETS  312.404.4903 Need Ohio State tix. Willing to buy  GA'S. CALL #2456 NEED 2 OHIO ST GA'S­ PERSONAL  
bottle opener/keychain. REWARD.  5 TO 7PM M-F, 9 TO 1PM SAT.  or trade. Call Matt 271-3683  WILL TRADE 2 RUTGRS GA'S  
Lost Purdue weekend: light blue rosary w/ silver cross. 20$ reward.  PHONE EXP A MUST. $7/HOUR 243-9555 I  NOTRE DAME GA'S WANTED ALL GAMES HOME AND AWAY  Need Ohio St. GA's. Matt -271-3683  Buy or trade  + $$ 634-1382.  FAX ITFAST!!I Sending & Receiving at  
x-2oa1 WANTED  . FOR RENT I WALK TO CAMPUS ,  232-00SB 24 HAS. BUY -SELL -TRADE TICKET-MART, INC.  sold OSU Was AF Pitt Rut stu tix2775931  Need 2 Pitt GA's cal! Sean x-3311  THE COPY SHOP LaFortune Student Center Our Fax# (219) 631-FAX1 FAX IT FASTIII  
2-3-4-5 BEDROOM HOMES  I need 2 Pitt tickets.  In desperate need of TWO TEXAS  
HELP WANTED-$10.2S  232-2595  WANTED: NOTRE DAME GA'S  Call Kyle@ 4-1957.  TICKETS!!! Will trade two USC or  Hey Carolyn, what time is it?  
Part-time work. Flexible eve. and  ANY/ALL GAMES. PLEASE CALL  two Rutgers or pay $$$. Call Colby  
weekend hours. No exp. required.  Need a place to stay on football  232-0061.  Ill FOR SALE 1!1  @ 634-1468.  GEORGE AND THE FREEKS  
All majors welcome. Scholarships  weekends?  STUD. TICKET BOOKLET  Club 23 Thursday 1 0:30pm  
available. Info-call 282-23S7  Furnished apartment for short term  I NEED FOOTBALL GA'SI  tel. 243-9448  Alum needs 2-4 AIR FORCE Tix for  What else really matters?  
rent. Full kitchen, living room, two  WILL BEAT ANY OFFER!  Family  
Babysitter Needed. ND/OSU game,  bedrooms, sleeps 4+. Call287­ CALL 243-1287  Need 2 OSU GA's For Parents  612-742-7638 Collect  DOUG MCKENNA of  
9/28. Attend family tailgate. watch 1  4876.  Call Rob x1902  GEORGE AND THE FREEKS  
yr. old daughter during game. Call  Dave Mathews/Black Crowes  NEEDED: 3 Ohio St. GA's. Call  playing Wed. nights at CJ's.  
Matt at (614)469-360S during day.  ROOMS-NIGEL Y DECOR. IN PRI­ 1st 10 Rows  232-0058  Buy & Sell but need  Jason at 4-1 03S.  
VATE HOME, 2 MI. N. OF CAM­ 6 Washington Tix  Chestnut House B&B,  
NATIONAL PARKS HIRING­ PUS. FOOTBALL WKNDS., CONT.  JUNIOR PARENT WEEKEND  Call Vince x1186  St. Joseph, MI.  
Positions are now availalbe at  BKFST INCL. CALL KIM 277-8340  RUTGERS TICKETS AVAILABLE  TICKETS DESPERATELY NEED­ Elegantly decorated home over­ 
National Parks, Forests & Wildlife  PLEASE CALL 232-0058  WANTED  ED -PLEASE HELP III  looking Lake Michigan and only 40  
Preserves. Excellent benefits +  House for rent Lake Maxinkukee 45  2 GAs for Air Force  Family wants to come to a game for  mins. from NO.  
bonuses! Call: 1-206-971-3620  min Notre Dame 4BD. CA FP  NEED 2 OHIO STATE GA  Carrie x2344  my senior year. Please help  Luxuriate in double whirlpools, pri­ 
extNS5848  APPL. $650. 317-942-2108  TIX ... WILL PAY$$$  Would like 2-6 tickets for any home  vate baths, full breakfasts & hors  
alter 6-317-942-2408.  Call Gina 243-0771  3 Dave Matthews tickets for sale  game. Please call Brian at 287­ d'oeuvres served fireside.  
ALASKA SUMMER EMPLOYMENT  call Eileen x0760  4876. Thank you.  (616) 983-7413.  
-Students Needed! Fishing  ROOMS IN PRIVATE HOME FOR  WANTED 2 GAs ND VS OHIO S  ***********************•********  
Industry. Earn up to $3,000­ ND-SMC EVENTS.  CALL COLLECT 215-355-7131  Need 213 OSU Tix for guy who got  STUDENT PLAYERS WANTS  
$6,000+ per month. Room and  IDEAL FOR FOOTBALL WEEK­ RON  me my FAKE ID, $1SO ea. @0538  I need 2 tickets to home games for  YOUR HELP  
Boardl Transportation! Male or  ENOS.  my alum brother. Please help!  we are looking for people to help us  
Female. No experience necessary.  VERY CLOSE TO CAMPUS.  NO Alum needs Ohio St. Tix (GAs).  NOTRE DAME GA'S WANTED  Call Erin at 634-3806  with the production of a musical  
Call (206)971-3S10 extA55847  243-0658.  Call (313)420-1208 or (212)250­ ALL GAMES HOME  beginning mid-Oct and running the  
6S13  AND AWAY  $$ Please Helpll $$  first week in Dec.  We are looking  
Going to Mexico City for Oct.  I Bedroom APT; clean, private bath;  232-0058  94 ND Alum Needs  for:  
Break?? I'm looking for anyone  entrance 3.S miles from campus. 6  GA TICKETS WANTED  GA  24 HAS.  1 or 2 Stud or GA tix to  VOCAL DIRECTOR  
going to the Cervantino Festival,  or 12 month leases only. Call alter  ONLY  A LOCAL BUSINESS  BUY -SELL -TRADE  Ohio St and Wash­ MUSICAL DIRECTOR  
etc.  Call Bernadette @284-5009  5p.m. 232-03S5  WOULD  LIKE TO PURCHASE  TICKET-MART, INC.  Call Joanne- COREOGRAPHER  
2 OR 4 SEASON TICKETS  OR  516-742-1923 (night)  MUSICIANS  
EASTERN EUROPE JOBS-Teach basic conversational English  FOR SALE  INDIVIDUAL GAMES ;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;277-1659  WANTED: NOTRE DAME GA'S ANY/ALL GAMES. PLEASE CALL  or 212-41S-3009 (,pay)  If you are interestred call Adam@ 4x4115today!ll  
in Prague, Budapest, or Krakow. No  232-0061.  For Sale: 2 ND-OSU GA's  
teaching certificate or European  COMPUTER 4 SALE  FOR SALE RUTGER TICKETS  317-2S1-4240 alterS  P.C.  
languages required. Inexpensive  DELL LX4100D LIKE NEW  GA. RUTGERS  $$$$$$  Promise me you'll swear like that  
Room & Board + other benefits. For  8MB, 100 MHZ  "CHEAP" ............. RUTGERS 272­ I NEED GA OR FACULTY TIXS  OSU Weekend Hotel Rooms  again?  
info. call:  $1500 CALL 233-S114  7233 RUTGERS....  ALL HOME GAMES.  South Bend Marriott  
(206)971-3680 ext.K5S842  AFTER 6:30 PM  272-65S1  Two Rooms-9/27-9/28  Ryan--Sorry about your Basketball!  
**Need Air Force TICKETS!!**  At Cost (216) 622-8207  
HUGE ND FAN DESPERATE FOR  COUCH & DORM REFRIG.272­ Please Call Kelly @ 4x2685  N.D. FOOTBALL GA TIX  For Sale-One Bed, only used once,  
5 GAs FOR RUTGERS. CALL PAT  6306  BOUGHT & SOLD  N.D. Football Tix-Buy/Sell  caiiT-Fats  
(813)360-2243.  <><>Dave Matthews TiX<><>  232-2378-A.M.  674-7645  
IBM PS1 486 28.8 Modem  Tickets for sale, call Mickey X1350  288-2726-P.M.  Sa props-past, present & honorary  
Need F student to care for child PT  CD ROM,Sound Blaster,  2Wash GA's  
in home while I work. Near Notre  Printer  I need 2 Ohio State tix, stud or GA  Wanted: 2 or more GAs @ face $  Best Offer.  Willi Trade OSU GA's for BC GA's,  
Dame. Call April289-9914  call 233-6903 eve.  call Gina 273-S833  for home games. 412/352-2219  1-612-427-3444  call Mary Kate at 203-24S-4354  

Wednesday, September 18, 1996 The Observer • SPORTS page 13 
• MAJOR lEAGUE BASEBAll 
Indians clinch AL Central title by topping White Sox 
ByRICKGANO 
Associated Press Writer 
CHICAGO 

The Cleveland Indians, with the best record in the major leagues, clinched their second straight AL Central title Tuesday night, routing the Chicago White Sox 9-4 behind a grand slam by Kevin Seitzer. 
Cleveland became the first team to clinch a playoff spot this year, and the victory sends the Indians into postseason play in consecutive seasons for the first time in their 96-year histo­ry. 
It also touched off a cele­bration at Comiskey Park, home of the slumping White Sox, whose wild-card hopes contin­ue to wilt after six losses in eight games. 
Cleveland made it to the World Series a year ago after a 100-44 regular season, only to lose in six games to the Atlanta Braves. 
The Indians, 91-59, would face Baltimore in the opening round of the AL playoffs if the Orioles hold on to their wild­card lead and fail to catch the AL East-leading New York 
Red Sox stay in the hunt for AL wild card position 
By HARRY ATKINS 
Associated Press Writer 
DETROIT 

The Boston Hed Sox kept their wild­card hopes alive and handed Detroit its 1OOth loss of the season with a 4-2 victo­ry Tuesday night. 
It was the Tigers' 1Oth straight loss, two shy of their longest skid this season. They left 14 runners on base, eight in scoring position through the first eight innings. 
Jose Canseco, playing for the first time in almost two months, broke a 2-2 tie when he drew a bases-loaded walk in the Boston seventh, an inning in which the Tigers used four pitchers. 
The Red Sox pulled to within 5 1/2 games of Baltimore in the AL wild-card race. The Orioles game against the New York Yankees was rained out Tuesday night. 
Felipe Lira (6-14) lost his seventh 
Yankees. 
Chicago began Tuesday night three games behind Baltimore in the wild-card race while Seattle was 3 1/2 back. 
The Indians scored three runs in the first ofT Alex Fernandez (14-1 0) and then added five more in the second as Seitzer, acquired from the Milwaukee Brewers on Aug. 31, hit his fourth career grand slam. 
Manny Ramirez had three singles, a double and drove in three runs in Cleveland's 15-hit attack, 13 of them allowed by Fernandez in 6 1-3 innings. 
Brian Anderson (3-1) allowed seven hits in six innings, includ­ing Frank Thomas' fifth homer in three games, to get the vic­tory. Eric Plunk pitched three innings for his second save, allowing an RBI single to Harold Baines in the ninth. 
Cleveland loaded the bases with no outs in the second on a single by Sandy Alomar, a walk to Omar Vizquel and bunt sin­gle by Kenny Lofton, his 200th hit of the season. 
Seitzer then lined his 13th homer -first as an Indian ­into the stands in left for a 7-1 lead. Two more hits and Ramirez's second RBI single made it 8-1. 
Cleveland scored three with two outs in the first. Jim Thome, Albert Belle and Julio Franco singled for one run. Ramirez followed with a fourth straight single, scoring Belle and sending Franco to third. 
The Indians then worked a double steal with Franco scor­ing for a 3-0 lead and Ramirez advancing to third on catcher Pat Borders' throwing error. 
Thomas hit his 37th homer­his fifth solo shot in three games -to make it 3-1 in the bottom of the first. 
straight decision, giving up three runs on six hits over 6 1-3 innings. 
Mark Brandenburg (5-5), the second of five Boston pitchers, worked two-thirds of an inning for the win. Heathcliff Slocumb got the final five outs for his 
·28th save. 
It marked the fourth time in club histo­
ry the Tigers have lost 100 or more 
games. They were 50-104 under the 
combined managership of Red Rolfe and 
Fred Hutchinson in 1952, 57-102 under 
Ralph Houk in 1975, and 59-103 under 
Sparky Anderson in 1989. 

Canseco, who had been on the disabled list since July 26, pinch hit for Reggie Jefferson with the bases loaded in the 
seventh. Canseco drew a two-out walk on 
Brewers beat Blue Jays 
Associated Press 

MILWAUKEE 
Ben McDonald pitched eight score­less innings and Fernando Vina had a two-run triple as the Milwaukee Brewers defeated the Toronto Blue Jays 4-0 Tuesday night. 
McDonald (12-10) allowed three hits and matched his career high with 10 strikeouts. He allowed a leadoff double to Otis Nixon in the first inning, a fourth-inning single to John Olerud and an infield single in the eighth to Tilson Brito. 
Angel Miranda pitched a perfect ninth to complete the Brewers' fourth shutout of the season. 
Luis Andujar (1-3) allowed four runs on four hits in 4 2-3 innings. He left after being hit in the leg by a line drive by Jeromy Burnitz. 
Milwaukee took a 1-0 lead in the first inning on John Jaha's sacrifice fly, and made it 2-0 on Marc Newfield's homer in the second. 
The Brewers added two runs in the fifth to make it 4-0. 
Newfield was hit by a pitch and Burnitz followed with a line single off Andujar's leg. Andujar retired the next two batters before leaving with a con­tusion of his left knee. Vina greeted reliever Bill Risley with a two-run triple down the right-field line. 
Notes: Brewers reliever Doug Jones was unavailable after suffering back spasms before the game .... Vina's triple was his 1Oth of the season. He is the first Brewer with 10 triples in a season since Paul Molitor had 13 in 1991. ... Andujar's other start against Milwaukee this season came when he was with Chicago, allowing five runs on five hits in 2 1-3 innings. 
a 3-1 pitch to force in the go-ahead run. ,---------------------------------, The Red Sox scored two runs in the I I ~~~t~~eRg~e:~!~~~ by Mo Vaughn and Please Recycle the Observer 
The Tigers tied it 2-2 on Ruben Sierra's pinch double in the sixth. 
L_________________________________________________~ 
Attention Seniors 
Last chance for sign..ups for Senior Portraits 


page 14 The Observer • SPORTS Wednesday, September 18, 1996 
·­
•NR ~ 
Bettis off to one of the best starts in Steeler history 
The Cushwa Center For the study of American Catholicism presents Pueblo Indian Catholicism: The Isleta Case Christopher Vecsey Colgate University Thursday, September 19, 1996 4:15PM Hesburgh Library Lounge  
University of Notre ~~ Dame International ~~~~,Study Programs \·~~ · ~vo ~~ -= Nagoya, Japan Information meeting with Professor Michael Brownstein Thursday, September 19, 1996 4:30PM 119 DeBartolo  

By ALAN ROBINSON 
Associated Press Writer 
PITTSBURGH 
Jerome Bettis of the Pittsburgh Steelers knows he's going to have a good game when his first carry "feels like I'm running downhill." 
The way he's running now­like Barry Foster in 1992 or Franco Harris in 1972 -he must feel like every carry is starting.----------., from atop M o u n t Washington, the peak that looms over down­t o w n Pittsburgh. 
Bettis' 133 yards in the Steelers' 24-6 dismantling of the Buffalo Bills on Monday gave him 306 in three games, one of the best starts for any new Steelers runner in history. 
Foster had a club-record 1,690 yards in 1992, Bill Cowher's first season as coach, but he was a backup for two years. Harris gained only 79 yards on 26 carries in his first three games as a rookie before starting a stretch of six consec­utive 100-yard games. 
Coach Bill Cowher said Bettis, the ex-Ram, has blend­ed in just as well in the Steelers' business-first locker room as he has into their run­friendly offense. 
"He's a 'fit' here," Cowher said. "He's a no-nonsense guy. He's not a guy who stands out because he fits in with every­one else. He's one of the guys 

r 
: 
who knows there's a difference between the time to play and the time to work. He's just a natural fit for us." 

It truly has been a fresh start in Pittsburgh for Bettis, who chased Barry Sanders for the NFL rushing title as a rookie in 1993 only to be discarded by St. Louis for two negligible draft picks in April. 
Bettis became expendable after an injury-hampered sea­son in 1995 led to the Rams' controversial decision to draft Nebraska's Lawrence Phillips. 
Bettis was angered when the Rams all but gave away a run­ning back who ran for 2,454 yards in his first two NFL sea­sons. But he has refused to criticize them, just as he didn't last season when he often ran behind a makeshift line. 
He also hasn't mentioned that Phillips, his replacement, has only 61 yards on 30 attempts. 
"I'm not trying to prove any­thing to anybody," said Bettis, who has 249 yards in his last two games. ''I'm just trying to show I'm a capable back when I get the ball, and that's what was missing last year. This is a great offense to be in for a running back." 
Especially, for a change, in prime time. 
"It really got me going to be on Monday night football for the first time," Bettis said. "The Rams didn't get on Monday night during my three years there. Those producer guys don't have much use for you when your team finishes 4-12 and 5-11." 
Bettis scored two touch­
downs Mond:.ty, one on a 43-because he's 240 or 250 Pittsburgh seems to miss the yarder that was the Steelers' pounds," the Bills' Mark least is unsigned running back longest scoring run since a 69-Maddox said. Bam Morris, whose off-season yarder by Foster against Green Bettis' consecutive 100-yard legal troubles in Texas led to Bay in 1992. Bettis looked like games against the Ravens (106 the Bettis trade. a man intent not only on win­yards) and Bills have helped "Injuries and adversity are ning a game, but proving a relieve the pressure on a part of the game," Cowher point. Steelers defense that was said. "It isn't injury and ad­
"You'd better tackle him forced to replace injured stars versity that knocks you down. early because If you don't, he Greg Lloyd and Ray Seals even It's how you deal with it. What gets a head of steam and then before Labor Day. Jerome has done has been real he's tough to bring down Right now, the player uplift for our team." 
Watch for The Irish Extra in Friday's Observer. 
Football Ticket Exchange Information!! 
Keeping in mind both the needs of students for a suitable ticket exchange program and the need to suppress unlawful selling/scalping of tickets, the Athletic Department and the Athletic Resources Department of Student Government have come up with the following Football Ticket Exchange Program for the '96 season. 
1) Ticket exchange will be available for all six (6) home football·games 
2) Each student ticket holder may exchange a maximum of two (2) student issue tickets for general admission tickets during the course of the season. 
3) The exchanging of tickets will take place on Tuesday, Wednesday, and Thursday of the week prior to game week, at the ticket office in the Joyce Center, from 8:30 a.m. to 5:00p.m. 
4) The number of tickets available for each game will vary by game, depending on the circumstances surrounding that game (see chart) 
5) Upon exchanging tickets, all students will be asked to sign a contract asserting that the tickets will not be unlawfully sold. 
6) **Any student wishing to exchange his or her ticket must be present at the time of the exchange, with the school 1.0., ticket booklet, and $16** 
GAME  # of Exchangeable Tickets  Dates of Exchange  
28 September Ohio State  400  17, 18, 19 Sept.  
12 October Washington  300  1, 2, 3 Oct.  
19 October Air Force  300  8, 9, 10 Oct.  
16 November Pittsburgh  400  5, 6, 7 Nov.  
23 November Rutgers  400  12, 13, 14 Nov.  

If you have any questions whatsoever concerning the exchange, please contact Student Government Athletic Resources ar 1 x6283 ** Please take notice: If cases of scalping arise, Athletic Resources and the Athletic Department will be forced to discontinue this program. 
WHERE YOU GO FROM HERE I~ UP TO YOU. 
Like you, we've invested agreat deal of time, effort, and .resources to ensure our success in the future. And just like you. we're driven. ambitious, and focused on the very top. This is how we have created the nation·s 8th largest fmancial institution and why we strive to identify top students on campuses across the country to participate in our professional development programs. 
This program is designed to provide amix of casework and technical education with interaction among successful and productive relationship managers. The Relationship Manager Development (Commercial Banking) Program, will participate in the foUowing: 
INFORMATION SESSION Morris Inn Notre Dame Room September 25,1996 
6:00PM 

First Chicago NBD is seeking Accounting, Finance. Economics and Marketing majors as candidates for positions in Illinois. Indiana and Michigan. To learn more about our career opportunities. please plan to attend our presentation. Casual Attire. Refreshments will be senred 

Fl RST 

~ CHICAGO 
AmericanNationalBank 
NBD

and Trust Company of OUcogo 
CORI'ORAriON 
We are aMember of FDIC and an Equal Opportunity Employer. 

-~----~---~-~ ~-­
Wednesday, September 18, 1996 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 15 

RecSports "Champion Student Award' recipients are selected by the Office of Recreational Sports. Honorees are chosen for their involvement in RecSports, including excellence in sportsmanship, leadership and participation. 

Fred Jos, a native of Lyon, France is a graduate student 
i 
the Chemistry department who is set to graduate in M 
of 1997. An active participant in RecSports fo 
several years, Fred has accumulated many championshi 
including four Graduate/Faculty/Staff Tennis Single 
titles, two G/F/S Mixed Doubles titles and two titles as 
member of a G/F/S Soccer team. Fred, thus far this faI 
is entered in G/F/S Tennis Singles and Mixed Doubles 
G/F/S Soccer, G/F /S Football and G/F/S Softball. 
Recipients receive <£~ merchandise from the 
VARSITY SHOP 

I 
, I 


I page 16 The Observer • SPORTS Wednesday, September 18, 1996 
• AMERICAN BASKETBALL lEAGUE 
•NBA

r 
I ~ 
Joyner-Kersee moves to hoops 
Stockton chooses 
Macintosh. More affordable than ever. 
With low student prices on Macintosh· computers, you can start doing whatever it is you want to do. And to make it even easier for you to purchase a Macintosh, apply for the Apple· Computer Loan. So you can take home a Mac; and you won't have to make a payment for 90 days~ How do you get started? Just visit your campus computer store today and pick up a Mac. 
Leave your mark. 
that I started out playing bas· she said. "And the trip wasI Heptathlete to ketball." easy back and forth to St. 
Joyner-Kersee, 5-foot-10, Louis."join the was a four-year starter at for­There was also Rage pointI ward for UCLA before she guard Dawn Staley, who
Richmond Rage became an Olympic star. She helped lead the United States
I averaged 9.6 points and 6.2 to a gold medal in Atlanta. By CONNIE FARROW 
rebounds and was a first-team "She told me that if I decided
Associated Press Writer 

all Western College Athletic to play on a team to come toI Conference choice in 1985. Richmond," said Joyner­
ST. LOUIS
I I Kersee said his wife had Kersee, who is to report to
Jackie Joyner-Kersee is cer­been approached about play­Richmond this week and begin tain she can make the switch
I 
ing basketball a number of practice next week. 
from heptathlon to hoops,
I times over the years, including Tammy Holder, general
I although she doesn't know 
an offer in 1989 to play in manager of the Rage, said the how much her track training 
I 
I will help. Europe. But the time was team's coach liked Joyner­never right. Kersee's competitiveness. 
"I can run up and down the "This year, prior to the "Rebounds, leadership, de­court forever," Joyner-Kersee
I Olympic Games, we started fense, putting the ball in the
said Tuesday at a news confer­
I thinking about it again," he hole -those are the things we
ence confirming she'll play in
I said. "When we heard about feel Jackie can help us with,"
the new American Basketball
I the ABL and what it was doing Holder said. "We want to show
League. "But it's different 
for women's sports, we decid­the world that some of herwhen you've got a ball in your ed to consider it." best moves are yet to come."
hand."

t 
Actually, the ABL came Joyner-Kersee won the hep­
Joyner-Kersee, who won 
courting after Joyner-Kersee tathlon in the 1988 and 1992Olympic gold medals in 1988 said during a television inter­Olympics and the gold medal
and 1992, will play for the 
view at the Atlanta Olympics in the long jump in 1988. SheRichmond Rage. 
she would like to play basket­won a silver medal in the longball again. Gary Cavalli, co­jump in 1992 and a silver in
Her husband and track 
founder and vice president of the heptathlon in 1984. 
coach, Bob Kersee, was confi­the eight-team women's bas­dent his wife could compete in ketball league, was watching Recovering from the ham­both sports. 
the interview and couldn't string injury, she abandoned
"She's been the queen of 
believe it. her bid for a third straighttrack and field, and now she 
heptathlon gold medal in
can return to her true court ­"The next morning we got Atlanta last month. She with­basketball," he said. 

on the phone with her," said stood the pain to capture theFinancial terms of the deal Cavalli, who is counting on bronze in the long jump. 
were not disclosed, but Joyner-Kersee to add cred­"I feel pretty good," she
Joyner-Kersee said she would ibility and attention to the said. "I have been doing a lit­play 28 to 35 games of the fledgling league, which begins tle bit of running, jumping and Rage's 40-game regular-sea­play in mid-October. weightlifting."
son schedule. That would 
Joyner-Kersee said she The basketball venture, how­allow her to compete in the looked at four teams, including ever, means postponement of
long jump and to continue 
Atlanta, Portland and San plans to have a child.
making public appearances. 

Jose, but decided on Richmond "I think it's still going to'Tm just finishing where I after watching the Rage prac­work out pretty well for me,"started," said Joyner-Kersee, tice last week. Joyner-Kersee said. "I still34. "Many people don't realize "The chemistry was there," want to start a family." 
< 
If~ 

you could, 
loyalty over money 
about his availability, th~ Tribune reported. SALT LAKE CITY 
"John's commitment to this 

John Stockton, forsaking organization is so strong, so 
millions of dollars to fmish his focused and so fair," Miller 
career in Utah, has agreed to said. 
a three-year. $15 million con­The owner said that during
tract with th.e Jazz~ negotiations Stockton put the .. The team said Tuesday the well-being of the team on a 
34~year-old All¥St;,tr guard is 
par with his own needs. 

, to sign when he arrives in "There just aren't a lot of 
Utah for the start (}f training 
guys like John Stockton 
on Oct. 5. 
around any more," Miller 

''We're pleased things have said. 
worked out and John plans to 
Stockton has missed only

sign what will.Hkely be his 
four games in his 12-year

final NBA contract with the 
career. He is the league's all­

Jazz," team owner Larry 
time leader in assists and 

Miller said. ''He has con­steals. He is an eight-time All­
tributed mor~ to this franchise Star and has won gold medals 
than numbers atone will ever 
at the 1992 and 1996tell." 
Olympics.

The value of the contract is Stockton and Karl Malone 
millions below what Stockton 
have been the main reasons 

could have made on the open the Jazz have won at least 51 
market. But Stockton has said 
games in seven of the last 

money is less important to eight seasons and have 
him than other considera­reached the Western 
tions. 
Conference fmals three times 

The Jazz did not disclose since 1992. terms of the contract but The 
Miller said negotiations on a 

Salt Lake Tribune and Deseret new contract were suspended
News reported it at $15 mil~ 
mid-season last year so 
lion. 
Stockton could concentrate on 

Stockton said last season playing.that he intended to re-sign 
Talks resumed after 

with the Jazz and he hoped to Stockton helped the United 
finish out his career with the States win the gold medal in 
team that drafted him out of the Atlanta Olympics. 
Gonzaga in 1984. 
Stockton was spending the 

Few teams believed final weeks of his summer 
Stockton would change his 
vacation in his hometown of 

mind and, as a result, there Spokane, Wash., and could 
was little bidding for his ser­not be reached for comment. 
vices. Only Miami inquired 
· · · r · .· 1 , 11tried 10 tbe rill "lflalalld will hear ill/ere.</. lthich 1l'ill be li1duded 111 /be reparmen/ schedule. flll' e.rampk. /be mouth ofMay 1996 had all mlere.<l mit' ofi2.!5't u~h
'Offer e>pim Ot1o1Jer J1. 1996. No purme111 of mlmsl orf>rit~cipal u·i/1 {,.requiredfor 911 rki\'S. Interest acc•·wu~ durmx lb" iO·rk!l' penoll 11111 Jt ' ~ 11' 'h. b tk. . m le urchase price of $1799 and" 6% foa orixinalion fee. Interest!' mrial!/e h<«ed on the Pnme Rate t!•· reporter! on the )//J
1 ~1 11 
an Amwtd i•ercmtaxe Rate !APR) o/13.93'X, Amonlblrpaymen/ of $.12.86 for the Power .!lac" 52611 'r'te~l "."" esi"J.~Ie ba.<e~~~~ a 17~~i loa7;:;';;~~i~{.t;;;.. liai!·,;~ ~~~~~!':~/~ ,;~1 '/he ~p/e Computer lixm bt~1-au H-year loan term u·ilh no prepayment{H!Uttlfy uud i< suhjed to credit af>prrmtl. ,llonthl>·/){11'~1en~ ba.<iness <klr ofthe month in TheWall Streetjournal. plus IJ.o/Jrettd of}.9'N, Monlb/J' /!I(J-mm/ tmdAPR'""~ n t<>lllme.\ e:rm!!1J/J.":'"etbl a7' ·t n t ©1996 Apple Computer. Inc. All rixbt< reserr·ed Apple. t/Ji! .1f1Jie/oxo. Jtaumd Madnlosb are rexL<tered trtltkmarks ofApple Computer. Inc. Pmcer Jla<" a fl<ldtn){)r. 
mtlr mrr tiependinx on tl<1ual computer SJ>Iem ptces, tolitiiOtln amountsh.lsltrle anfidlocallsale;!~';sha;' •.anc1/:'/':. ~~~,; ~~~~i;l:r':.u ~~;J~~.;~~H or m 111111·755·116111
ofApple Computer. Inc. All .Hacmtosb computers are destuned to be acces.w eto mf411' ua s U't" 1..\a '''.f· J ,. · _ • • 
r---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ ----------------­
Wednesday, September 18, 1996 The Observer· SPORTS page 17 

Courtesy of Ohio Slale Sports lnformalion Buckeyes' head coach John Cooper says that his team cannot afford to look past the Panthers to the impending showdown at Notre Dame. 
-liirf'are for tlJJD 
(Drawing at 12:00 midnight) 
!. 
. 

J'J.){IAi~WJ:kl.. 
---·········~.-, 

PowerBook' 190cs


Power Macintosh' 7200 
i'rJuii1'PL603e/120 MHz/!6MB RAM 
66Mllz/8MB RAM/500MB

i'rJui?1'PC"601/120 M//z/16.118 /WI 
1.6G'818X CD-ROM/15"display 
badllil, dual·sam. color display

1.2GIV4XCD-ROM/15"tli.l{l/a)' 
• COllEGE fOOTBAll 
Ohio State focuses on Pittsburgh 
By RUSTY MILLER 
Associated Press Writer 
COLUMBUS, Ohio 

Even with ninth-ranked Notre Dame looming, coach John Cooper swears that sev­enth-ranked Ohio State is only thinking about lowly Pitt. 
"I'm not sure we're not going to have a tough game," Cooper said Tuesday at his weekly news conference. 
History isn't an ally, if that's the case. The last three years, the Buckeyes have walloped the Panthers 63-28, 27-3 and 54-14. That's an average score of 48-15. Oddsmakers, never known to play fast and loose with their own money, favor the Buckeyes Saturday at 
12:30 p.m. by that same 33­point difference. 
Yet Cooper said his team cannot afford to look past Pitt to the game Sept. 28 in South Bend. To hear him tell it, the Buckeyes were downright for­tunate to escape a year ago with a 54-14 white-knuckler. 
"Even last year, it's a 14-14 game with two or three min­utes left in the first half. We scored, as I recall, right before halftime and we're leading 21­14," he said. "Then after that in the second half, we took pretty good control of the game." 
Ohio State piled up 636 yards and 30 first downs and forced 

TQX05 0UitC05Q-pO~1iort1Q 
September 19th at Senior Bar 
$6 per ticket, or 2 for $10 
Prizes Include: 
-fwD 1lc.kets for the texas game -Hotel ac.c.omodations for tlJJD 

five turnovers. Wide receiver Terry Glenn had nine catches for 253 yards and four touch­downs, compared with the Panthers 264 yards of total offense and two scores. 
But Cooper said there are lessons to be learned from upsets elsewhere, particularly Southwest Louisiana's 29-22 shocker late Saturday night over Texas A&M. 
''I've been in the game long enough and our players and coaches are mature enough to know that you'd better be ready to play," Cooper said. "All you've got to do is pick up Sunday's paper and read about what happened on Saturday. Southwestern Louisiana and A&M is a good example. Whenever you walk on the field, you'd better respect your opponent." 
Pitt is 1-2, with losses to West Virginia (34-0) and Houston (42-35 in overtime) sandwiched around a 52-14 victory over Kent. Ohio State battered Rice 70-7 two weeks ago and then enjoyed a week off to get ready for Pitt. 
Panthers coach Johnny Majors doesn't talk like a guy who expects to be respected by Ohio State. 
"We'll have to play consid­erably the best game we've played to make a contest of it," he said. 
What's more, Ohio State could be at full strength. Starting center Juan Porter missed the opener after having arthroscopic surgery on his left knee Aug. 27, but is back prac­ticing. Same goes for defensive tackle Winfield Garnett, who sprained a knee against Rice but has also returned to work­outs. 
Cooper said he did not an­ticipate any major changes in the lineup. Against Rice, starter Stanley Jackson and backup Joe Germaine com­bined to complete 12-of-19 passes for 315 yards and five touchdowns. 
"Unless something changes between now and game time, we'll probably keep the same rotation we used the first game," Cooper said. 
• SPORTS BRIEFS 
Volleyball Tournament ­Rec Sports will be sponsoring a one night tournament on September 19 at Stepan Courts. For more information, contact RecSports by Wednesday, September 18. 
Challenge U Fitness -Some classes are atill open. Please call RecSports for details. II' you are not able to attend for any reason, please contact the HecSports office so that we may give the spot to someone else. 
Field Hockey • There will be a field hockey game this Saturday, September 21, at Wheaton College. Anyone interested in playing, meet at Loftus parking lot at 7:30 a.m. The next practic·e will be on Monday, September 23 at 9 
p.m. in Loftus. Call Danielle Gray a.t 634·4853 or Megan Kennedy at 243-9476 with questions. 
BeeSports 
Holli~ne 
631-BHEC 
falilily rmro. I tpun,fng [mrs I Gm Dfl~~s 
START YOUR FIRST DAY WITH YEARS OF EXPERIENCE BEHIND YOU. 

Bring your BSN to the Army and we'll assign a preceptor to help put you at ease. 
Your preceptor will be an experienced Army Nurse who will smooth your transition from school to practice. With advice, counsel on Army nurs­
ing procedure, or just by being a friend. 
With your preceptor's help, you'll meet your new chal­lenges and rapidly move into a leadership role ofyour own. 
Ifyou're a BSN candidate...or you are an RN with a BSN... you'll find the rewards and responsibility you're looking for in Army Nursing. Contact your local Army Nurse Corps Recruiter. 
(314) 634-4496 
ARMY NURSE CORPS. BE ALL YOU CAN BE 
Visit your campus computer store for the best deals on a Mac • 
Notre Dame Computer Store Room 112 COMB • 631-7477 Monday -Friday 9am -5pm 
•Both the 5400 and 190 include built in ethernet and 25 foot RJ-45 network cable 
Free one-year Apple warranty. 


()jfor e.rpi,..., Odobtr II, 1996. C/996 A{¥1/e Computer, Inc All ri11hls resen'l!d. A{¥1/e, the Af>Pie /oi/(J, Ap(JieCare. laserif!'iter, Mac, Madnlosh, Perfomta, PowerBook, Pou~r Madntosh and Styleif!'iler are registered trademarks ofApple Computer, Inc. PowerPC Is a trrukmark oflnlerlulllonal Business Machines Corpomllon, u.rerl under license thmfrom. 
·,\t,,·,,, •
'••l( ll i' 
-

I 
I page 18 The Observer • SPORTS Wednesday, September 18, 1996 
·-----------------~--------~~-·­
Football 
continued from page 20 
the match-up. Texas is unde­feated under head coach John Mackovic when he has had an extra week to prepare, posting a 7-0-1 record over five seasons. 
"They had an open date which is certainly to their advantage," he said. "When you have an extra week, what you have is the opportunity to get healthy. You cannot minimize the impor­tance of getting healthy. 
"Number two, you have a week where you don't have the pressures on you and the play-
SMC 
continued from page 20 
final two from All-American Pilot senior Julie Reininga. 
"Serve reception is still a weak spot for us," Saint Mary's coach Julie Schroeder­Biek cited. "We played a good, intense offense against Bethel, but yet we just couldn't run it. Bethel has always been good servers, they put sidespin on the ball, which is something my team hasn't met yet." 
With the help of a rowdy crowd, the Pilots easily fin­ished off the Belles in the third set, 15-6, with the help of a duo of service aces and a few kills from Reininga. 
But with an inexperienced team including seven fresh­men, Schroeder-Biek can't complain about the run her team gave Bethel. 
''I'm happy with the match overall," she said. "Bethel is a ers can relax a little bit more and then get excited to come back. 
"Number three, you can change some things offensively and defensively." 
However, Holtz also made a bold prediction for the game. 
"The odds are absolutely in our favor this time... God didn't put me on this earth to lose four times there," he quipped. 
Holtz was referring to his less than perfect record (0-3) against Texas in Austin, a record he compiled while occupying the head coaching spot at Arkansas. 
Notre Dame must counter­balance the UT confidence level to take the clang out of their 
tough team, Lorne (Oke) has done a great job coaching them. I got a glance at them when they won the Calvin Tournament. This is the best Bethel team I've seen." 
And Bethel's success has resulted from more than just the addition of Davis. Pilot captain Reininga has received All-American status the last two seasons, with sophomore transfer and Mishawaka High graduate Samantha Poyser contributing force at the net. 
Reininga finished the game with five kills, five aces, and 15 digs, Poyser added seven digs and four kills, while sophomore Hope Lawson chipped in with eight kills. 
Love led the Belles with 18 assists and eight digs. 
"Our focus has been on the aggressive," Oke explained. "We've been able to maintain our mentality and stay consis­tent. We know that we can't sit back and rest on our record." 
Have something to say? Use Observer classifieds. 
The Observer 
is now hiring 
a Saint Mary's Sports Editor. 
• 

Interest in sports preferred. 
I 
I 
t. 
Call Caroline Blum at 63 7-4540 if interested.
I 
Sponsored by the Notre Dame Prelaw Society 
w
..... Tour the ND Law School 
Tuesda'J_, September 24 2:00p.m. 
Dean Link will address tf'ur members 
Please sign up in 101 
O'Shaughnessy by Friday, September 20 
-
bells. Such means of action in­clude preventing the big play, working out the kinks of the running game, and opening up another economy-sized hole for speedster Allen Rossum on the opening kick-off. 
Talented receiver Adams and tight end Pat Fitzgerald have good business relationships with quarterback James Brown; they've hooked up for big plays already this season. Rossum will have to stick on Adams con­sistently to avoid giving up a game-breaker, and Fitzgerald must not be allowed to duplicate the three touchdown perfor­mance he recorded last year. 
The running game will only improve with recovered tailback Randy Kinder added into the mix. Autry Denson will start against Texas, and Robert Farmer will see plenty of action in the backfield as well, as Holtz will try to keep his runners fresh throughout the game. 

Notre Dame was helped by big plays in last year's game. Emmett Mosely returned a punt for six points before the Irish ran an offensive play. Rossum returned an interception for a touchdown. and the Irish recov­ered a fumble on the UT 12 yard line to set up a third score. As Holtz has consistently evaluated, the Irish are not a big-play team, so they must work on exe-cution to open up opportunities. 

William Gibson  Thich Nhat Hanh R;,.rheod Books · PB  
G.P. Putnam's Sons • HC list24.95  ListB.OO  G.P. Putnam's Sons-HC  
list24.95  

By the end of the week, the coaches must have the con­fidence level of the squad up to the point where the Irish will be ready to disprove the notion that everything is bigger in Texas­including the Longhorns. 
Irish Notes: 
The defense received fresh­man Deke Cooper into its ranks this week, as the former wide receiver will be practicing at free safety. This move allows present back-up Ty Goode to move to cornerback, where he will assume the spot vacated by Shannon Stephens' switch to flanker. 
Edward Klein 
Pocket Books -HC 
list23.00 

35o/o0FF ALL NIW YORK BESTSELLER HARDCOVERS 

MAKE THE CONNECTION 
Bob Greene and Oprah Winfrey Bob Greene and Oprah Winfrey 
Hyperion-PB L.ist8.95 
Hyperion-HC List 18.95 

' 

Wednesday, September 18, 1996 The Observer • TODAY page 19 
_,

MIXED MEDIA JACK OHMAN YOUR HOROSCOPE JEANE DIXON 
-·--­
~--­
MOTHER GOOSE & GRIMM 

DILBERT 

YOU'RE LOOKING FOR AN't' RUERENC.E 10 THE. CURRENT 't'EAR. THOSE PIECES OF CODE WILL BE A. PROBLEI"\ WHEN 
THE 't'EAR I5 .;2.000. · 
CROSSWORD 
1 Oreo's center 35 "Moneyline" shouldered channel 
bovine 

6 Dotty 
36 Blaupunkt &1 Bamboozles 10 Karate school 
product &2 Parting word 14 Boring tool 
38 Yard pests 63 ---contra 15 Share a side 
39 Popular 64 Pants partwith 
education aid 

&5 Kidney-related16 Israeli airline 
42 Cellular phones 

66 Become 17 "The Cloister lack them 
attentive, with and the Hearth" 43 Kind of gloves uup" author 
44---good deed &7 Scorch 18 Kind of 
45 Heads-up 68 It's just over astockings 
notices foot 19 Auto brand 
47 Agcy. for 20 1986 Robert 
retirees 
DOWN

Palmer hit 
48 Last word of 23 Midpoint: Abbr. "For He's a Jolly 1 Irene of "Fame" 
24 Filth Good Fellow" 2 Felt sorry about 
25 Definitely, south 49 Bombard 3 "Holy moly!" of the border 51 Caviar 4 Italian dynasty 
28 "lch bin--53 End of a classic name Berliner" Eubie Blake title 5 Upright 
&Willing 

7 Not upANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
8 Storm winds 
9 Not out 10 Military punishment 11 Norwegian king ...,.-'-+-+~oiiioloiii~-t--'-+~~"-~ until 1991 
'!"1~"':-t:-:+=+::-!oil.liill 12 Senator in space --Garn ~.:,;.+::;:+::-+:-4 13 Matador's cheer 21 Word with "water" or "the boards" 
-:-+c::::+.,-+=+:':-4 22 Oaf =t:-:+::+.±:;.l 25 Pronunciation symbol 
The Observer 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompany­ing form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 

26 How sardines are packed 
27Sawwood 29 Screen favorite 
30 Hirschfeld's hidings 
32 Move effortlessly 
33 Scouting mission 
34 Susan Sontag piece Refreshed
36 
. 37 Decides 

40 Dropping sound 50 years: (BOO) 762-1665. 
IIAI'I'Y BIKI'III>A Y~ 1!\ I Ill. ,-..:E:\1 YEAR OF YOlll{ LIFE: 'iolll~<IIW mflucnt1al 11 ill ollc1 '"I' portal a crilll'id moml'nt. Tri.l\l'l (Hll\~' ll'Wardrn!! ltH huth your 1"111ancl'" anU career A rharH!.L' ol ~n' <ronment early 111 1'9\lf 11 Ill re,I<Ht' your. romantic hope,. lh· open hl new idea~. A longtrmc worl-. relallon,hip will h,• on 'tcau<L'I 
ground a' next summer approache". l.onc.~Ji"tancc communication:-t will assu~nc new imponancc hy rllH.bum­mc< of ·lJ7. Can vou ac:ce" lhc Net'' Ke~p 111 tnuc:h wlllt thn\c who 'hare 
)'Olll i.lllll\. 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON TillS DA \': movie 'tar Greta Ciarho. 'inger Fran~ie Avalon. 
MIKE PETERS 

aetre's Holly Robin"'"· ha,ehall player Ryne Sandberg. 
ARIES !March 21-April 19): lligher-ups aumirc your int~llec:t anu delerminalion. Do not lry IO \how up acolleague. Keep the work environment congenial. Ou1doo1 
spo11' and actlvitie~ tont' your mind 
anu hmh 

'L\liRliS IApril 20-May 20): Keep }Our eyes anu ear' open. ln,ide infonnalion will \leer you in 
the right direction. lnve~tigate a wiJe range of options that incluJe!\ 
travel and educational pursuits. 
<;EMINI IMay 21-June 20): Get tnvoh·ed in an investment s<:hcme al your own ri,k. Finan<:ial arrange­lnen" should he put in wriling. even 
when dealing with family memhers 
Avoid solituuc. CANCER (June 21-July 22):
SCOTT ADAMS 

Keep lll(l\ ing ahead even if you cncounler uelavs and uistractions.
iJ 

You ma) hav-e to change your
~ SIX MONTH5 LATER 
schedule to ac<:ommodate others. A
~r-------------------------~ 
twosome turns out lobe quile cozy.
I'M. 1-\I>.PPY TO REPORT IHP..T 
LEO !July 23-Aug. 22): Be more darin!! in career mailers. Shrug off a
THE OATE DIO NOT 51-\0W 
nan~) mood and explore a new 
fll'ld RL~ading: and reo.,carl'h are
UP ONCE. IN FACT, IT WAS 
ALL JUST ZEROS 1\ND 
ONESJ) ~ 
• OF INTEREST Patrick M. Regan, Ph.D., visiting fellow of the Kroc 
~ 

Institute, will lecture on "External Intervention into Internal: Conflicts as a Policy Choice" today at 12:15 
p.m. in C-103 Hesburgh Center. 
Students Speak Out on Gender will be presented by Gender Studies today from 4:15-6:15p.m. in the Hesburgh Ubrary Lounge and will include student presentations, an open discussion, and a reception in honor of Gender Studies Concentrators . All students, staff, and faculty are welcome. 
A Taste of Mexico will be served tomorrow at the 
Center for Social Concerns to support the Center for 
the Homeless. This hospitality luncheon will take 
place from 11.:30 a.m. to 1:00 p.m. The cost is $3.00. 
•MENU 
Notre Dame 

North South 
Hamburger Soup Broccoli Cheese Soup 
Roast Top Sirloin Chicken Nuggets Stuffed Shells Turkey Turnovers Pork Fried Rice New York Cheesecake 
St. Mary's 
41 Courage 55 Readily 
Rice and Veggie Bar 
46 Casual pants draftable 
BBQ Chicken
48 Anesthetize 56 Ultimate buyer 
Bean Tostada 
50 Steak type 57 Winter 
~ausage Calzone
Olympics venue52 Mitchell belle 

sa Bona fide the Wizard" 59 Gift-giving time 54 Bridge support 60 Fast speed 
53 "-Off to See 
Wanted: Reporters, 
Answers to any three clues in this puzzle 
photographers and editors. 
are available by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420-5656 (75¢ per minute). Annual subscriptions are available for the 
Join The Observer staff. 
· best of Sunday crosswords from the last 
Make checks payable to:  The Observer  
and mail to:  P.O. BoxQ  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  
D Enclosed is $70 for one academic year  
D Enclosed is $40 for one semester  

Name __________________________________________ Address ______________________________________ City-------------State _____ Zip.___________ 
l.t\UIL'd lhl\ huul-_, and lllil~:.\/lllL' OL 11 lliOlll~\· I\ 111.!111. horrn~ lilL'lll 
lnnn till' lihi·arv. • 
\'IR<;o 1Aug ~1 s,·pt ~21 FlnaJlL'ial mattt.~r~ turn '\l'rtou:-.. C'-fW nally where invc,tmL·nt' unJ 'a' 111~' arc conc:erned. Con,ull \l<ll'~ hr~l~Crs anu elcclronir Sill(:~ quoit'' Someone semi'\ you a m~'"'''!!t' you ran not afford to 1gnon:. 
LIBRA (Sepl. 2J-Or1. 22): C111n rrom"11tg wilh a partner will help lighten lhc almO>[Jherc. Make th,· nH"l of a professiOnal challenge: 11 nndd lcau to a<:arcer breakthrough 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 211 
Show more initiative. Someone whu 
IS 'low to approve you1 propo"tl' will hop aboard once you have solu your ideas. A change of scenery '" acti\ ities will prove energi1ing tim evemng. 
SAGITTARIUS 1 Nov. 22-lkc 21 ): A good Jay to <:alch up on paperwork, errands and correspon dencc. Take a romanti<: message seriously. A proposal could he in the work>. The one you love auorc' you: he happy' 
CAPRICORN (Dec 22-Jan 19): Your wannheartcd anu gencr· ous nature anracls other' like a mag ncl. New financial gains arc [JaJ1 ol th.~ riciUre. A get-together with frienus or family members builth camaraderie. 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Fcb. IS l Make a special effort to stash awa) funds for a rainy day. Timely invest­ment' will pay handsome dividend' Keep a promise to lovell nne even 1f doing so will inconvenirtKc you. 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Your mind is razor sharp, anu your timing just right' New doors open. A lucky break puts you in opportu­nily·s path. See how well you can caritalize on it. Personal objective' move within your grasp 
-· 
-


SPORTS 
-p~ag~e_2_o_________________________________________________________________________________________ 1996
~_e_d_n_es_d.ay~;-S~ptemberl8, 
• fOOTBAll 

Confidence questionable as injuries hinder squad 
I  By DAVE TREACY Associate Sports Editor  run defense is untested through the first two games of the sea­ still the big story. Two games have gone by, opposing offenses  
t I  At this point in the season, there are notable similarities  son, and they may blink when stared down by the Irish backs. However, Irish fullback Marc  have found only 46 net yards rushing, and quarterbacks have ended up on the turf much more  
r l I I I I  between Notre Dame and Texas. Both schools have played a relatively mediocre level of com­petition thus far. Texas has flexed their muscles in both games, beating Missouri and New Mexico State by an 81-17 point spread. The Irish fought to beat Vanderbilt, yet had a  Edwards was shaken up in the PU game and has not practiced for the last two days. He has been joined in the training room by right tackle Mike Doughty, who also missed Monday's prac­tice and played sparingly on Tuesday. "We'll just have to see how  often than they'd like. For Notre Dame, it's the sec­ondary that's heard most of the questions, and the defensive backfield has responded well thus far. But again, they haven't really been tested by receivers like Mike Adams and the others who will represent the cowbell­ 
I'­~  smooth ride on the Purdue train. Both teams have tough de­ they are (today)," Holtz ex­plained. "Without Doughty,  ringing Texans this weekend. Both teams are key pieces in  
t  fenses, yet their strengths lie in dlfferent areas. Texas' top unit is the secondary, returning four  without Edwards, it's just hard to have the continuity to make it happen."  the college football puzzle. Both have demonstrated the ability to score and to control opposing of­ 
experienced seniors led by  Despite the concerns about the  fenses. Both want this win pret­ 
Bryant Westbrook, considered  two seniors, they are expected  ty badly.  
one of the elite corners in col­ to be in the line-up.  So the deciding factor may  
le football. However, their  For the Irish, the front seven is  come down to confidence.  
Coaches and players alike have  
cited the importance confidence  
has in big-game situations such  
as this. So going into this week­ 
end, who's got the edge? .  
On first glance, hats off to  
Texas. The 'Horns have had  
two weeks to prepare for this  
one, and like their chances on  
their home field.  
"This game is important to the  
whole university and the whole  
'I  city of Austin," evaluated Westbrook. "I know the crowd  
I  will come out fired up and ready  
~­1 I  to make some noise." At yesterday's press confi­dence, Holtz acknowledged the  
attitude and intimidation the  
team may encounter in  
Memorial Stadium.  
"Going down to Austin, it is a  
very difficult place to play," he  
said. "The stands seem to be far  
away. The locker rooms are not  
air-conditioned. The fans get  
excited... Just a hard envi­ 
ronment because there is an air  
of excitement and Texas plays  
so well at home."  
The extra week Texas has had  
to prepare for Saturday's  
encounter is also a key advan­ 
Fullback Marc Edwards, who has s cored two touchdowns for the Irish  tage the Longhorns carry into  The Ruma Right tackle Mike Doughty is expected to return in full force today after  
this year, has missed both practices  so far this week.  see FOOTBALL I page 18  practicing sparingly on Tuesday.  



• SAINT MARY's VOLlEYBAll 
.... 

Belles fall short of victory 
By CAROLINE BLUM Saint Mary's Editor 
Bethel College knew the addition of freshman setter Lisa Davis would assist team. 
But what the Pilots didn't know, was that Davis would lead them into their best sea­son start ever during coach Lorne Oke's reign, growing to 15-0 Tuesday night after their 15-7, 15-11, 15-6 win over Saint Mary's College. 
Davis attributes part of her decision to attend Bethel to her short 5'5" height. 
"It was hard at first, because I knew Division I would want tall setters," Davis explained. "But it came down to a choice. I realized that there was more to life than volleyball, such as' an education. And at Bethel, I get both. I'm glad I'm here." 

Davis, the setter for the IHSAA State Champion Michigan City Wolves, had for­merly competed with many of the players she faced Tuesday night, such as SMC freshmen Katie Candiano from Hobart and Courtney Love from South Bend. 
''I'd seen some of the players [from Saint Mary's] before," Davis said after the game. "I knew they had good ability, which is why I knew we had to beat them." 
The Belles were not without energy when they came onto the field, stepping out to a quick 7-4 lead. But Davis changed all that when she stepped behind the base line. 
"Our assistant coach called out and told me where to serve," Davis said. "It was in the middle front. I left it a lit­tle short, but they [SMC] weren't passing to get it back, so I kept serving it in the short middle front." 
Davis, equipped with her lucky red pigtails, served the ball seven times in a row to put Bethel ahead, 11-7. 
"It was a definite turning point in the game," Oke said. "We became more aggressive and took back the game. Saint Mary's ball handling really hurt them. Especially against our consistent serving game and floor handling." 
The Belles lost some initia­tive going into the second game, but earned momentum fighting back to an 11-11 tie. But the Pilots stole three of the remaining points on service aces, one from Davis, and the 
see SMC I page 18 


at Texas 
at Michigan~ September 21, 11 a.m. 
September 20, 7 p.m. 

• Ohio State gears up for Pitt at St. John's 
Volleyball vs. Hope
(., 

September 20, 7:30 p.m. 
September 19, 7 p.m. 
see page 17
-
(..,­
vs. Connecticut 

• Stockton re-signs 
-
September 20, 7:30 p.m. see page 16 


