
Wednesday, March 6, 1996 • Vol. XXVII No. I04 THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Hall-of-Farner Group leaders ask for student voice 
sponsors scholarship 
By MATTI lEW LOUGHRAN Nl'w,Wrill'r 
A two-tim1~ All-American, I1)47 ll1~isman Trophy winner and Collngn Football llall of Famn honorne, .John ".Johnny" l.ujack won many honors in his time at Notre Damn. Now, he has dedd1~d to give back to the University that lwlpnd him ac­complish so much. 
l.ujaek has given the Univer­sity $200,000 to be used toward a general scholarship to begin in thn 1996-1997 school year. 
"Undnrgraduatn financial aid is Notre Dame's top fund-rais­ing priority, and we are deeply appreciative that .Johnny has gorw thn 'nxtra yard' with this new and gnnerous scholar­ship," said Univei·sity l·:x,~cutive Vice President Father William BPatH:hamp. 
l.ujack, who had a distin­guislu~d professional carnnr, 
see LUJACK/ page 4 
Trustee report applications due tomorrow 
By BRAD PRENDERGAST Associate News EJimr 
In an attempt to bolster the effectiveness of student gov­nrnment's spring semester re­port to the University's Board of Trustees, student officials are looking to campus organiza­tions to take an active role in determining what the report should say. 
This is a break from the pre­vious method in which the re­port was dnveloped, said Den­nis McCarthy, student body vice-president. In the past, trustees met only with students serving in student govemment through the Student Affairs trustees committee. 
"In dealing with !that) com­mittee, the trustees voiced an interest in meeting other stu­dnnts who had various roles on campus, not those just involved in student government," Mc­Carthy said. "Having different students involved will be a great way for students to pro­vide input." 
The reformed process also makes it easier for student gov­emment, which presents a re­port to the trustees in both the spring and fall semesters of each year, to present ideas to the trustees, McCarthy said. In past years, organizational prob­lems have prevented the fall semester report from being as effective and substantial as the spring report. 
Any student organization can participate in the new process by completing an application that allows it to suggest the is­sues that it feels should be brought forward to the Board of Trustnrs. The application, due Thursday, is the first of three steps in the process of determining the report's con­tent. 
A student government com­mittee will review the applica­tions and then announce on March 20 which themes will be presented to the trustees. At that point, all student groups will be asked to provide detailed proposals, due March 29, that center on the decided 
Appleby probes religion, violence 
By STEPHANIE DOYLE 
News Writer 

In onl1)r to understand the causes of religious violence, people must understand both the religious peacemaker and the mili­tant, aceording to Scott Appleby, Notre Dame associate profes­sor of history. who lectured yesterday on "Heligious Violence and Peacmnaking after the Cold War: Patterns and Possibilities" at the llnsburgh Cnnter for International Studies. 
Appleby, who has authornd two books and numerous articles on the topic, stat1~d that religion "has a dual role in soeiety as a hringnr of' pnace and the sword." 
D1~seribing the relationship between religion and ethnicity in society, Appleby statnd that religion reinforces ethnic identities in many plac.es today. lie said that the current wave of ethnic and religious violence in Europe started before thn Cold War began, not after it ended, as many bdieve. 
lnterv1mtion in religious ronllicts has chang1~d because larger nations are a lot more relurtant to intnrvene in disputes outside of' an intnmational organization, according to Appleby. 
"Secular nationalism has failed throughout to solve the prob­lem of' rdigion and ethnicity," Appleby said. 

The Observer/Katie Kroener On thn topic of' religious violence, Appleby explained that Scott Appleby, Notre Dame associ­snlective retrinval of' certain religious traditions and demo­ate professor of history, delivered a nization of' the enmny are some of the causes of' religious vio­lecture yesterday on post-Cold lencn in society today. Certain groups will pinpoint onn instance 
War religious violence and peace­making. see VIOLENCE/ page 4 

March 7 March 20 March 29 
April2 
Apri119 

Student Government's Tbneline Spring 1996 Board of Trustees Report 
•First 
set of group applications due 

•Student 
government states report theme 

•Detailed 
proposals about the declared theme due from campus groups 

•Student 
government announces groups that will attend Board ofTrustees meeting 

•Final 
Statement from each group due 


May 2 or 3 •Meeting with Board of Trustees 
The Observer/Brian Blank 
theme. 
After reviewing the second application, the student gov­ernment committee will choose three to four groups to partici­pate in the presentation of the report at the trustees meeting, to be held on either May 2 or 3. Those groups will be an­nounced by April 2. 
Each chosen group will also be asked to submit by April 19 a statement summarizing its position on the issue at hand. 
• GRADUATE STUDENT UNION 

The statements will then be for­warded to the trustees prior to the meeting in May. 
Past reports to the Board of Trustees have foeused on issues such as cable television, finan­cial aid, the Catholic character of Notre Dame and the Univer­sity's teaching and eurriculum. The report on teaching at the University prompted the estab­lishment of the John A. Kaneb Center for Undergraduate Teaching last year. 
GSU establishes goals, cites achievements 
By MATTHEW LOUGHRAN 
News Writer 
The Graduate Student Coun­cil, the ruling body of the Grad­uate Student Union had its final meeting under the leadership of current GSU president Joe Manak last night. 
The Council, which meets monthly to decide issues rele­vant to the lives and work of graduate students at Notre Dame, will be holding general elections on March 20 through 22 for a new president and vice president. Those interested in being considered as candidates ean fill out nomination forms available at the GSU office at 
211) LaFortune Student Center and turn them in there by Fri­day, March 8. 
In the past year, the GSU has begun many initiatives and ac­complished many goals set out at the beginning of Manak's administration. "Without the GSU, there would be no Travel Grant program, parties or any graduate student representa­tion on campus," said Manak. 
They have successfully lob­bied for improvements in mar­ried student housing at Univer­sity Village, eulminating in a new community center that is on the University's list of prior­ity expenses. They have in­creased support for the Travel Grant program, have estab­lislwd at least two newsgroups, nd.gsu and nd.gsu.computing, and is negotiating to have the 
see GSU/ page 4 

Southbound students bask in 'sun' of area salons 
By LAURA SMITH "'""·'"' S.1i111 ll1.1ry's Fdi1t>r 
lly Friday night. tlw campusns of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's will b1~ quiet. Whiln some stu­dents may lw going home and some may spend tlwir brPak job-searching, many Saint Mary's and Notrn Damn studnnts are !wading for the sunshirw. And many of these south-bound stu­dPnls who are traveling to warm and exotic plan~s are not waiting until tlwy get to their dPstinations to ratrh some rays. lns,tead, they arl' fn•qw•nting tlw tanning salons of the South Bend area in sParch of' a warm glow. 
"This is ddinitely our busiest timn of tlw year," said Carson, tht~ owrwr of l'owerTan on South IIPrHl Avnntw. "Most of tlw increase in businPss is dun to tlw college studnnts. Nor­mally. rollegl' students make up about 25 per­t'Pnt of our business, but right now they am ovnr 50 pPrrPnl ol' our husirwss." 
l'owPrTan is not t!w only local tanning salon PXJll'rienl'ing stlf'h a growth in husirwss. "We gl'l a lot ol' ,·o!IPgn students in bnl'on~ spring break," said Linda. the manager of Fun Tan. "It's the busiest time of the year. It keeps up until May because students want to keep tlwir tan for spring dances and graduation." 
College students are so important to South Bend's tanning salons that PowerTan is offering a new special with these important c.ustomers in mind. "We are offering a package that ineludes unlimited tanning from now until May 15 for only $49," said the owner of PowerTan. 
This is in addition to PowerTan's current spe­cials which inelude one week for $12. 21 tans for $20, and one month for $29. 
Many Saiut Mary's and Notre Damn students are taking advantage of these specials. "I went tanning for the first time last year bnfore Spring Break, and I'm tanning again this year becaus1~ it is ridaxing and assures me I won't get burned in Florida," aceording to Ellen Duggan, a Saint Mary's junior who leaves for Panama City Beach this Friday. 
"At first I was worried about skin cancer and wrinklns," Duggan said, "but since I don't go any 
see TAN/ page 4 


page 2 The Observer • INSIDE Wednesday, March 6, 1996 



DeBartolo: The Ph.D's nightmare 
Upon its completion in 1992, The DeBartolo Classroom Building was heralded as the "cutting­edge" of tomorrow's technology. It was the classroom building of the future and was to be a pro­totype for other universities looking to improve their campus facilities. 
According to an Observer feature article 

Krista Nannery Accent Editor 
on the DeBartolo Building written when the building first opened, the project cost $22 mil­lion to complete. Professors were supposed to be able to tap into six media presentations at once. The filler optic network would allow pro­fessors to pre-schedule a variety of media sources, including videocassettes, satellite transmissions and television. 
Most professors can't even get a simple video to play. How are they going to figure out satel­lite technology? 
Each semester, without fail, students squash themselves into the "front" doors of DeBartolo and attempt to figure out the seemingly ran­dom assignment of room numbers. Once in the classroom, if they're really lucky, they get to participate in DeBartolo's Fiber Optic "Media­on-Call" system, known affectionately to many as "Media-from-Mars." This usually requires that students sit there patiently (hopefully they've brought other homework) while the professor fiddles with buttons and on-screen displays. Eventually, the professor will give up and call the friendly people downstairs in the "Media-on-Call" office. This usually involves about twenty minutes of "OK, now what do I press?", "All right, I pressed that aTJd it says pause," "Oh wait, I think I just pressed some­thing else." If the class is really lucky, they'll get a special visit from one of the "Media-on­Call" techno-gurus, who come to save the day. Now. with 15 minutes of class time left, the class is ready to watch the 45 minute video. 
Over the past four years, this scenario has been repeated in one too many DeBartolo classrooms. It is not an isolated phenomena. And all this confusion is just to get a video or CD to play. It just doesn't seem worth it. 
Supposedly, at least four rooms in DeBartolo can connect with the satellite uplink at WNDU to originate a teleconference. Imagine what could happen if someone actually tried to do it. There'd be no WNDU broadcast for two weeks because someone pressed the wrong button. 
It would be no surprise to learn that DeBartolo already offers a training session for professors in the "Media-on-Call" system. If they don't, it would not be unreasonable to suggest that start doing so immediately. DeBartolo should require that all professors using Media-On-Call attend a mandatory train­ing seminar that would explain all aspects of the technology available to them. Even satellite tHchnology would be explained. 
If that's not a viable option, how about typing up some basic instructions for using videotapes and COs? Media-on-Call could laminate the instructions and make copies available in every classroom. This would eliminate "Now what do I press?" phonecalls and make life easier for all involved. Nothing is worse than a Ph.D frus­trated by "cutting-edge" technology. 
DeBartolo has a lot of potential yet to be real­ized. But all that technology doesn't mean a damn thing if only a handful of people know how to work it. Almost four years after its com­pletion, all those kinks should be ironed out already. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 


News Gwendolyn Norglc Production Jillian Pagliocca John Hutchinson Sports Jackie Moser Betsy Baker Lab Tech Megan McGrath Michael Hungeling Graphics Accent Brian Blank 
Mary Beth Ellis Julie Vodicka 

The Observer (USI'S ';99 2-400()) is published Monday through Friday cxt:cpt during exam and vacation periods. The Ohserver is a mcmher of the Associated Pres~. All repmduction righrs are reserved. 
• J!fORU} AT A GtANC£ 

On Junior Tuesday, Dole seeks commanding lead in GOP race 
Just a week ago, the GOP race was in chaos. Dole had won Iowa but was embar­rassed by Buchanan victory's in New 

Primary results 
Hampshire. Forbes ·then won Delaware and 

Bob Dole swept Tuesday's primaries, including
Arizona, seizing momentum from Buchanan 

five states where the winner takes all delegates.
and leaving Dole teetering. 
~ b 

But Dole recovered to win South Carolina, 

~e ~q,<:' and his overwhelming victory -with 45 per­~'li~b '!fl'li ~ b(l,'t:; ~0 ~ cent of the vote -re-established him as the ~ Gj 0 f..''
~'li ~'ti ~ ~e
THE VOTE
man to beat. 
Polling there and in Arizona also suggested %precincts that Buchanan's New Hampshire victory -reporting: and the exposure it brought the controversial 
Dole 
commentator -had triggered a block­
Alexander
Buchanan sentiment not only among the GOP establishment but also among primary vot­Buchanan 

ers. Dornan 0 0 0 0 0
There was also evidence as the GOP race 

Forbes 21 20 12 15 13
moved into a crowded March that more 

39% 90% 79% 84% 78% 
45% 54% 40% 46% 53% 1 0 5 13 7 5 21 15 31 25 21 
Republicans were thinking ahead to Gramm 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 November -a dynamic that helps Dole. 
Keyes 3 2 3 2 5 2 0 0
In Smyrna, Ga., Coca-Cola worker Martha -----------------------------------------------­Hughes said she liked Forbes and his flat tax L~_g_fl:r_________ 1 1 0 3 2 3 14 
the most but voted for Dole because "I think Taylor he's really the only one who can beat 
Delegates
Clinton." 
for the
Joy Toews, a Maryland accountant, voted for Dole and said, "He represents the best winner: candidate for the Republican Party and he's a veteran." 
Mob man Gotti accused of bribery 
NEW YORK 
While awaiting trial in 1991, mob boss John Gotti came up with a plot to escape from jail by bribing the presi­dent of the United States with up to $5 million, Gotti's former right-hand man testified Tuesday. The witness, mob de­fector Salvatore "Sammy Bull" Gravano, said he had a more workable scheme of his own -to escape by rope 

out an 11th-floor window of the federal jail in New York City where he and Gotti were being held. A former senior federal law enforcement official involved in the investiga­tion expressed skepticism about the schemes. Gravano testified at a hearing to determine whether Vincent "The Chin" Gigante, the reputed boss of the Genovese crime family, is competent to stand trial in connection with eight murders. Federal authorities contend that Gigante, 67, is faking bizarre behavior that includes wandering around the streets in a bathrobe and slippers, mumbling incoherently and claiming to hear God's voice. 
DNA extract aids rape investigators 
ROCHESTER, N.Y. 
Authorities have extracted a DNA sample from the 
womb of a comatose woman who was raped and impreg­
nated and now they are attempting to match it against 
samples obtained from suspects. A former nurse's aide 
accused of fondling another patient at the nursing home 
where the woman was raped 6 1/2 months ago has re­
fused to provide blood voluntarily, the Democrat and 
Chronicle reported today, quoting unidentified sources. 
But police discovered a blood stain on a laboratory coat 
that John Horace was believed to have worn and techni­
cians are trying to obtain a DNA sample from it, the 
newspaper said. Police say several employees and ex­
employees of the Westfall Health Care Center in subur­
ban Brighton are being investigated for the rape of a 29­
year-old patient who has been in a coma since a 1985 car 
crash. They refused to say whether the suspects include 
Horace Last month, Horace, 52, pleaded guilty to unre­
lated charges that he posed as a sex therapist. 




Wednesday, March 6 
AccuWeather00 forecast for daytime conditions and high tempemtures 
ILL. 
• 
57% 66% 72% 
48% 67% 41% 8 20 11 
~ 
25 0 17 0 0 0 
14 0 17 

0  0  0  0  0  0  0  
14 of 27  27 of 27  36 of 39  8 32 37 of of of 15 32 37 ----------­ 16 of 16  12 of 12  
AP  

Soldier emerges victorious in LSD case 
WEST PALM BEACH, Fla. 
A former soldier given LSD nearly 40 years ago in ex­periments by the Army and CIA won more than $400,000 from arbitrators to settle his lawsuit against the govern­ment. The three-member panel ruled in a split decision Monday that the government owed James Stanley, 62, of nearby Palm Springs $400,577 for secretly giving him LSD in 1958. He was then a young soldier who thought he was participating in a test of equipment and clothing. "I won the war," Stanley said. "Now I can forget about it. Tonight I think I can sleep." The government-appointed panel member dissented. William Aileo, a Pennsylvania lawyer, said he found no evidence that Stanley had suf­fered long-term effects. Aileo said that although the warning given to soldiers who took part in the LSD experiment was vague, it met the standards for 1958. As a 24-year-old staff sergeant in 1958, Stanley volunteered for what he thought was an test of equipment and cloth­ing under chemical warfare conditions at Aberdeen Proving Grounds in Maryland. Instead, the Army and CIA gave Stanley LSD to observe the drug's effects. 
Study undermines vitamin hype 
CHICAGO 
They may be popular in health food stores, but beta carotene pills won't help ward off heart disease or cancer or promote a longer life, two new studies indicate. The findings, published Wednesday in The Journal of the American Medical Association, underline previous studies that cast doubt on the supposed benefits of supplements containing beta carotene, a nutrient abundant in green and yellow vegetables. In the first study, researchers di­vided the 1,805 subjects into four equal groups according to their beta carotene blood levels prior to the study. The researchers found that those who began the study with the highest levels before taking beta carotene supple­ments were 40 percent less likely than those with the lowest levels to die of heart disease, cancer and other causes during the study's eight years of follow-up. But taking beta carotene supplements of 50 milligrams a day -about 10 times the minimum amount recommended in a healthy diet-had no effect on participants' health. 
VIB A$SOClated Press 
~ 

Atlanta 63 57 Dallas 48 25 New Orleans 56 55 Baltimore 59 49 Denver 42 8 New York 47 36
4,Q,~8 M8 {} ~ c:::1 

Boston 42 28 Los Angeles 80 25 Philadelphia 53 43 
Showers f.-storms Ram Flumes Snow fee Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy 

Chicago 22 17 M1ami 84 73 Phoenix 75 46 
Via AssOCiated Press Graph/csNet 
0 1996 AccuWeather. Inc 

Columbus 33 29 Minneapolis 18 ·1 St. LOUIS 28 22 

The AccuWeather® forecast for noon, Wednesday, March 6. 
3 s 
COLD WARM STATIONARY 

10 1996 AccuWeather, Inc. 
Pressure ...~. 6--"'\. .--./"\H L 6J ISS:! [!1] 0 tZl E1 ~ ~ r..:...___j. HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT CLOUDY CLOUDY 
Sherwin examines Pope's view of science, faith 
By ERICA ESPINOlA they tend to feed off each other and LISA BONK yet neither of them dominate. Nt'WI Wrirer., The Pope states that science 
has a two-fold obligation: Sci­
w(~rn tlwy two lovers or just entists must engage the whole good friends'! Exactly how community in their l'indings, dosely related are science and and they must recognize the nd igion? These were two transcendent truth about the questions probed by Father universe, Sherwin said. Miehaol Sherwin in his lecturo The Popn makns a controver­"lleconeiling Old Lovers: John sial claim that scientists must Paul II on Sdenr.n and Faith" realize that there is something last night. more than detectable matter, 
"Both science and religion there is a truth to be reckoned must pres(~rve tlwir own au­with. lin asserts that the scien­tonomy, both illuminfl an as­tific and religious community peel of n~ality," Sherwin said. must interact, according to Ar.r.ording to Sherwin. tlw Pope Sherwin. "Isolation is not an lwlievns that seienee and reli­option," Sherwin said. gion are very closely relatl)d -Science can correct the 
errors and superstition in reli-
SMC forum addresses women's leadership 
1\y TRICIA MALOVEY women's studies course as a Ncw1 Wrircr requirement. Also discussed was the 
Issues r.onr.nrning women's atmosphere at Saint Mary's lnadnrship at Saint Mary's and College and the faet that, while qunslions regarding the lack of Saint Mary's College is an all­use of thn Women's Center women's college. not many stu­W(~f(~ addrnssed at a forum dents focus on the importance lwld in honor of Women's of it being all-female. Month last night in the Saint "Many times people come to Mary's Clubhouse. Saint Mary's College, not be­
"Tiw Women's Center is a cause it is a women's college, plar.e for nvnryorw, (~spedally but in spite of the fact that it is for all of tlw studmll organiza­a women's college," stated an­tions, to hold nwntings and gt)t­other faculty membor. togntlwrs," said one faculty The talk was sponsored by IIIPIIIhl'r of tlw Cnntnr, which is the Wonwn's Cnntnr, the Sis-· hu·atPd in tlw hasPlliPnl of (.(~­ters of Nefertiti, the Women's Mans IIall. Studies Program, the Center 
Anotlwr topi(' addn~ssnd was For Academic Innovation and that of tlw WomPn's Studies the Fund fur the Improvement Program and fPminism. A sug­of Post Secondary Education w~st.ion was madn to includn a project. 
SENIORS! TONIGHT! 


(j 
to 9 
PM 
AT 


l~lirttpie sul>s will be scrveci ··nmuny Boy" and "Billy Madison" willl:x~ showing 

Free Pregnancy Test Referrals to Support Agencies Confidential Counseling 
SOUTH BEND • EAST DOWNTOWN SOUTH BEND Iron wood Circle 417 N. St. Louis Blvd. 20041ronwood Circle, Suite I Call 234·0363 273-8986 (24 hours) 
I :r•ii:I!•1%\it•llttB•lllfla:iia~i I i•1&:!9!QifJ 
gion, and religion can correct the idolatry and false absolutes in seience, Sherwin said. The core view of Pope John Paul II is that "there is no freedom without the recognition of truth," Sherwin said. 
The many questions that are being posed by students at uni­versities across the country stem from the laek of theologi­cal foundation in science, ac­cording to Sherwin. "Why shouldn't I falsify my data? Why shouldn't I just take some­one else's? Why should I believe what you are saying is true?" these students are ask­ing professors today. And many of these questions can be answered by those who can relate the fields of science and theology. 
We need leaders today to guide us, according to Sherwin, who added that "we need a new St. Thomas to do for us in our day what he did in his day." When the floor was open for questions, a student asked if there is such a person in to­day's lime who can guide us. 
Sherwin said Notre Dame Professor of Chemistry and Biochemistry Rudolph Bottei may be such a leader because Bottei is someone who strongly believes in relating religion to chemistry and chemistry to re­ligion in his lectures. lie is very successful at meshing the two, according to Sherwin. 




Grant to explore COLT ideas 
By ALLISON KOENIG NewsWrirer and LESLIE FIELD Sainr Mary's Accenr Editor 
A group of Saint Mary's stu­dents, faculty, and administra­tors met Tuesday for an infor­mational meeting to discuss the Fund for the Improvement of Post Secondary Education's $214,000 grant to a Community Commitment to Leadership Development. 
.Georgeanna Hosenbush, di­reetor of Student Activities, and Patrick White, associate dean of faculty, spoke at the luncheon, encouraging stu­dents and f'aeulty alike to for­mulate nflw ideas for leader­ship advancement in years to come. 
This year's Play of the Mind Conference provided laborato­ries for analysis and discus­sion, and the COLT groups will initiate the actual experimen­tation of many of the ideas generated during the confer­ence. 
A COLT group consists of two students, one faculty member, one alumna and one adminis­trator who is concerned with student development. Any stu­dent interested is encouraged to pick up an applieation from Student Activities. 
Melissa Peters, one of the project's coordinators, stated, "People keep saying there's nothing going on on this cam­pus. This is their opportunity to make Saint Mary's better." 
Five to six applications stat­ing an explorable idea will be accepted by Student Activities. Between 10 and 12 thousand dollars have been allotted to the exploration of the COLT's ideas. 
Necessary travel expenses will also be ineluded for the benefit of each group, aceord­ing to Peters. 
The commitment to be a member of a Community Lead­ership Team through the FIPSE grant includes fulfilling a certain number of hours, drawing a conelusion for the project by the end of the 1996­1997 school year and visiting other wonwn's colleges to gain ideas for improving thn com­munity. 
In addition to the theme of better faculty, student. and ad­ministration collaboration, top­ics mentioned at the luncheon as possible topics for COLT group discussions were wom­en's overall wnllness, methods for supporting new freshmen, a reduction in the transfer rate and classes addressing multi­cultural issues. 

Please, recycle The Observer 
Breaking Away for Spring Break? 
Ride 



II~ITt=n I I~A()
-..--~-..__ ------...,------· -._ ·--.--. ._.­
~· ·~
,..---....... 
Your convenient connection to the Chicago Airports United Limo leaves campus ten times daily for O'Hare and Midway Airports. Board at the Bus Shelter on Notre Dame Avenue next to the Morris Inn. 

Fares to Midway or O'Hare from Notre Dome: $28 One Way I $52 Round Trip Tickets con be purchased from our driver or through your travel agent. For further information coli 254-5000 
Your Airport Connection •All Day, Every Day 
-~~--------~ 
page 4 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, March 6, 1996 
• HAU PRESIDENTS' COUNCIL 

Council nominates co-chairs 
By DEBORAH SCHULTZ 
News Writer 
Deborah Hellmuth, co-presi­dent of Pasquerilla East Hall, Mike Tobin, co-president of Zahm Hall, and Brian Klausner, co-president of Flanner Hall were nominated for the posi­tions of co-chairs of Hall Presidents' Council at the HPC meeting last night. 
Matt Schlatter, present co­chair of IIPC, announced that the nomination period will be held open until the end of the week since the selection process of Resident Assistants is not yet completed, and RA's are not allowed to run for HPC co-chairs. Elections will be held on March 19 at the next HPC meeting. 
Scott Baker, representative from the Association of College Unions International 




Lujack 
continued from page 1 
has always kept his connection to Notre Dame, returning to serve as an assistant coach for then head co.ach Frank Leahy for two seasons. 
"It's hard to describe how pleased I am to make this con­tribution to my alma mater," Lujack said. "Notre Dame has been close to my heart, and I'm grateful to have attended this great university. I'm proud to be a Notre Darner." 
The number of students that the scholarship will benefit will vary from year to year, but the average range will be from two to eight students. The scholar­ship is for undergraduates with "outstanding credentials and demonstrated financial need." 
"This scholarship is set up in a way that is ideal for us," said Joseph Russo, director of Stu­dent Financial Aid. "We get to choose how much we will acti­vate in a given year, depending on need." 
Student Financial Aid plans to activate $9,000 to $10,000 for the 1996-1997 school year. This rate would extend the scholarship for at least 20 years. 
Conference, announced to'-the Council that Notre Dame will be hosting the conference in 1997. 
The ACUI is a non-profit, pro­fessional association of students and administrators working to enhance campus life through programs, services and facili­ties. Meeting annually with pro­fessionals to discuss possible programs, students gain know!· edge at these conferences through speakers, information­al sessions and meetings with other students from all over the country. 
"We have achieved a great honor by hosting the ACUI Conference," Baker said. 
Baker also spoke about the graphic design contest the con­ference is sponsoring. The theme of the conference is "Discover Gold," and the dead­line is April 4. The winner will receive a gift certificate for a 


Violence 
continued from p·age 1 
of violence in the Bible or other religious scripture and use that as their justification for vio­lence, according to Appleby, who listed defense and revenge as common motives behind re-
GSU 
continued from page 1 
University subsidize health care for the children of gradu­ate students. 
However, the next adminis­tration has many issues still facing it. In his final President's Report, Manak out­lined important issues for next year's GSU as they were set forth in a report to the Graduate Affairs Committee of the Academic Council. 
The establishment of a per­manent representative for graduate students on the Aca­demic Council is of highest pri­ority. "The Academic Council is the most important decision­making body on campus. Chaired by the University President, its decisions dramat-


Experience" is a tradition of exceptional guest service. If you have the ability to work hard and smile, now is your chance to join our team. 
tft 

We will be accepting applications for a variety of 
positions in all areas of hospitality service in our hotels, 
restaurants, retail, recreational, and support facilities. 
0 

Housing available for applicant only. 
For further information and application, call or write. ,.. 
All applicants will be subject to pre-employment 
drug testing. 
I

Yosemite Conc~on Services Co Human Resources Department 
~ P.O. Box 578 
'(,Y Yosemite, CA 95389 (209) 372-1236 
restaurant and will probably win a t-shirt with the winning logo on it. 
If students have any ques­tions, they are encouraged to contact either Baker at 634­1186 or Kira Carter at 634­1708. 
In other HPC news, represen­tatives from Pasquerilla East, Lyons, Lewis and Keenan Halls announced that they are spon­soring a multicultural week the week following Spring Break. The week will feature a student panel, a faculty panel dis­cussing affirmative action at Notre Dame, movies, dinners and other cultural activities. 
"We have worked pretty hard on this and I think it will be very informative," said Isabella Marchi, co-president of Lyons Hall. "We encourage everyone to come. We really hope to have a good turn out." 
ligious violence. 

Appleby concluded by addressing the different roles religious peacemakers play ­they can serve as advocates, intermediaries, observers and educators of peace. Heligion has an advantage in peacemaking in that it is uniquely placed to be both the center of conflict and resolution, he said. 
ically affect the lives flf gradu-· 
ate students," Manak said. 
Yet, graduate students alter­
nate representation every other 
year with MBA and law stu­
dents. 

The GSU also expressed a 
desire for increased graduate 
student departmental repre­
sentation, with the main thrust 
of the argument being that 
graduate students ought to be 
included in decisions that affect 
the departments for which they 
are being trained. 

Third, the GSU asked that the 
University develop a plan to im­
prove the graduate programs. 
Tan 
continued from page 1 

other time of year, I just lay back, listen' to the music and fall asleep." 
Saint Mary's junior Allison Carroll, who leaves Saturday for South Padre Island, Tex., agrees that tanning is relaxing. "A lot of people say it's vain to go tanning, but I don't want to burn in South Padre," she said. "It helps relieve stress and I can study better after I tan." 
Christa Clous, a junior at Saint Mary's, offers another 
reason to tan. "When I'm tan, I feel better about myself. don't eat as much. It gives me the same efl'ect as summer." 
Linda encourages students to choose Fun Tan because it was voted "The Area's Best Tanning Center" for the last three years. "We guarantee a tan and customer satisfaction," she said. 
But according to Carson, PowerTan is the best tanning salon in the area. "We are very customer friendly," he said. "We get you in and out as soon as possible, and we want to accommodate every­one." 

service week 


Wealth, power shape U.S. 

WHAT CAN I DO WITH A DEGREE IN MATHEMATICS? A lot! The training and analytical skills The top six, out of 250 job classifications, Do ANY NOTRE DAME MATH MAJORS acquired in studying mathematics are pre­were, in descending order: actuary, soft­GO ON FOR HIGHER DEGREES IN THE cisely what many companies and profes­ware engineer, computer systems analyst, MATHEMATICAL SCIENCES? sional schools look for. accountant, paralegal assistant and math­Certainly. Some of our best students con­CAN YOU BE MORE SPECIFIC? WHAT ematician. This means 4 out of the first 6 tinue in pure or applied mathematics, com­KIND OF JOBS AND WHAT KIND OF top jobs are in the mathematical sciences. puting science, statistics, and other math­COMPANIES ARE SOME OF OUR RE­I LIKE MATHEMATICS, BUT I'M NOT SURE ematical sciences. CENT NOTRE DAME MATH GRADUATES They've gone to places like Harvard,WORKING FOR? THAT IT'S WHAT I WANT TO DO FOR Among our recent graduates two very pop­THE REST OF MY LIFE. WOULD AN UN­Princeton, Chicago, Oxford, Berkeley, and ular kinds of jobs have been as actuaries DERGRADUATE DEGREE IN MATHEMAT­Wisconsin. Many of them teach at colleges and as computer programmers or systems ICS MAKE SENSE FOR ME? and universities across the country. Others analysts. It could very well. As I mentioned earlier, work at places like Bell Laboratories or at A few of the insurance companies hiring a degree in mathematics represents train­government organizations like the National our graduates as actuaries are Allstate, ing in analytical thought and quantitative Security Agency. Massachusetts Mutual, CIGNA, The Trav­skills that are invaluable in many areas of WHAT ABOUT THE PROGRAMS OFFEREDelers, Prudential, Aetna Life and Casualty, human endeavor. BY THE MATH DEPARTMENT?and Metropolitan. AT&T, Arthur Andersen, DuPont, IBM, WHAT ABOUT NOTRE DAME MATH The Department offers, all in the College GE, Eastman Kodak, Morgan Stanley, GRADUATES? WHAT OTHER AREAS of Science, a major in Math with possible NCR, General Motors, and Xerox are a few HAVE THEY GONE INTO? concentrations in Life Science, Education, of the companies where our math gradu­I'll name a few: medicine, music, den­Engineering Science, Social Science, Com­ates work as programmers or analysts. tistry, law, engineering, meteorology, busi­puting, and Business Administration. A THAT IS AN IMPRESSIVE LIST. -BUT ARE ness (MBA), applied physics, and theology. student can also double major in Math and THESE DESIRABLE JOBS? These students continued their studies at in, say, Philosophy.The 1995 publication JOBS RATED AL­places like Northwestern, North Carolina, The department also offers an HonorsMANACrated job classifications using the criteria of income, outlook, physical de­Stanford, Indiana, Illinois, Yale, Boston Mathematics Major in the College of Sci­mands, security, stress, and work environ­College, University of Pennsylvania, and ence and one in the College of Arts and ment. Georgetown. Letters. Come to our Open House on Wednesday, March 27, from 7 to 8 PM in Room 226 of the Computing Center and Mathematics Building and find out more about our programs. You may also call the Math Office at 631-7245 to arrange an appointment with our Associate Chairman Prof. Migliore or our Director of Undergraduate Studies Prof. Rosenthal.  

By MIKEJACCARINO 
News Writer 
In a lecture given before a predominantly professional and faculty audience at the College of Business Administration yes­terday, Charles Perrow, a soeiol­ogy professor at Yale currently working under a fellowship at Princeton, spoke about the role organizations play in the con­centration of wealth and power in the United States and their negative implications for American soeiety. 
Perrow detailed how large, bureaucratic and formal organi­zations have become the most instrumental means of control­ling and shaping culture, gov­ernment and economics in the United States. Focusing on early America, Perrow traced the ori­gin of the historical foundations leading to the establishment and growth or modern organizations and the political structures aid­ing them. "When this country began, 
.... people hated the idea of corpo­
~ rations because they feared the 
.... tyranny and concentration of 
., power which they associated 
~ with the British and Dutch com­panies they had had experience with in the past," Perrow said. "Springing from mutual finan­cial interests, legal changes were enacted making it possible for private endeavors to take place with minimum risk and public scrutiny." Thus the weak hands-ofT eco­nomic tradition of the United States can be credited to the early policy-shapers of this country: elite lawyers and legis­lators who were also busi­nessmen, according to Perrow. Frequently farmers and artisans 
were left outside looking in, he added. 
According to Perrow, the hands-off environment set the stage for the sweeping control exercised by corporations over the labor force during the in­dustrial revolution. 
"Suddenly seven-year-old kids were working 12 hour days, carrying 16 pound loads up the f'lights of stairs in the textile mills springing up across the East Coast," Perrow said. "Farmers went from mill to mill, peddling their children. as Irish immigrants f'leeing the potato famine worked for next to noth­ing." 
"We've always had a tremen­dous labor supply because when we ran out we went over to Europe and brought [labor[ here, offering great promises," Perrow said. 
Many of the rifts and divisions present within society today originated with the practices employed by the corporate or­ganizations of the industr·ial rev­olution, according to Perrow. 
"As long as there's sexism you can pay women less; as long as workers are fighting over race, religion and ethnicity, they're divided and wages can be kept down," he said. 
With such far-ranging control of labor and the enormous amounts of capital available through their control of indus­try, organizations began to con­solidate and merge into power­ful corporations eliminating competition, according to Perrow, who pointed to this trend as the origin of the con­centration of power and wealth in large organizations. 
The resulting corporations were able to manipulate gov­
ernment policy, beginning what Perrow said was a cycle of manipulation in the relationship between government and the corporate world in American politics. 
"We have a government and economic system which sends the rewards up, not down. WP. have a Congress that's made up of mostly millionaire busi­nessmen. and it's these men who write the laws," Perrow said. 
"As corporations grow stronger. their control over gov­ernment increast\S, making it P.asier for them to pass the lehris­lation they want, making them stronger still, and then thP. process begins anew." 
Perrow said he does not see corporate influence ending with control over Amel'ican politics but rather having implications for the cultural dynamics of the United States. By living and working in an environment stressing efficieney and profit rather than the consequences for the community, Americans become caught in the (:orporate mentality of pursuit of success and higher lifestyles . 
Perrow ended by offering an evaluation of the present as \:VCII as predictions for the future. 
"The same thing that was be­ing done at the turn of century by corporations is being done today but only in a more relined manner. If changes are not enacted, this country is going to deteriorate economically in the face of other countries with a better way," Perrow said. ''I'm afraid for my children who will feel the social unmst and prob­lems if businesses will not change, and I'm not sure there's a solution." 
-----------------------------------------------------------------.------------------.------------~-----------~ 


VIEWPOINT 
page 6 
THE OBSERVER 
NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1995-96 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief John Lucas Business Manager joseph Rjley 
'News Editor ................................ David Tyler Advertising Manager...........................John Potter Viewpoint Editor .................. Meaghan Smith Ad Design Manager ......................)en Mackowiak Sports Editor ............................. Mike Norbur Production Manager .................. jacqueline Moser Accent Editor ......................... Krista Nannery Systems Manager ............................ Sean Gallavan Saint Mary's Editor ....................Pani Carson Observer Marketing Director .......... Pete Coleman Controller ............................................. Eric Lorge 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by rhe students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. lc does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administra­tion of either institmion. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned edi­rorials reprcsem the opinion of the majority of the Ediror-in-Chief, Managing £diror, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Pharo Editor, Spans Editor, and Saint Mary's Ediwr. Commentaries, leuers and Inside Columns presem the views of the authors, and nor neces!.arily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Sainr Mary's com­munity and ro all readers. The free expression of varying opiniom. through leuers is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 
Ediror-in-Chief 631-4542 Business Ofllce 631-5313 Managing Edimr/Viewpoint 631-4541 Adverrising 631-6900/8840 Sporrs 631-4543 Sysrems/Markering Depr. 631-8839 News/Phoro 631-5323 Ofllce Manager 631-7471 Accent/Sainr Mary's 631-4'140 Fax 631-6927 Day Editor/Producrion 631-5303 Viewpoinr E-Mail Viewpoinr.1@nd.edu General Information 631-7471 AdE-Mail observer@darwin.cc.nd.edu 
• DESIDERATA 
~~~~,==~-Pt&Awr-/~1' 
..· ... ·· 
-~t.-~"-.q.,.., 
-~t~~;j~;~:4·'-'~~ 
·.,. h.-.:-'•\;,(::··~,,. -~~~ 
Wednesday, March 6, 1996 
. ~:--:z·. 
·/~::~~;'·' 
... ::::d!:;;,'! :~~:;;.::#~::; 
Choosing life over liberality, facts over feminism 
I try to stay away from the subject of abortion. but today I'm going to have to add to the hundreds of abortion-related pieces you've probably read this year already. If you are patient and read a little further than this, I think you'll see that this is a little different from what you are accustomed to reading regard­ing the subject of abortion. 
I'm not going to provide you with quotes from the Bible about why abor­tion is wrong; other columnists. more well-versed in that area than I. amply cover this aspect of the issue. Nor am I going to give you the feminist position on why abortion is wrong, because 1 don't consider myself a feminist. However. I am also not going to tell you that abortion is an acceptable choice, much less a constitutional right. Like many other Observer contributors. I would condemn abortion, but for what I feel to be different reasons. 
I don't like to label anyone, particular­ly myself. but I'd say that my views make me what one would call a liberal. I actively lobby for animal rights and for the abolition of the death penalty. I do whatever I can to help my many gay. lesbian and bisexual friends gain respect and recognition by the larger heterosexual community. When I can afford to do so. I donate to associations which provide care for AIDS patients; feed and clothe the needy; and seek to preserve the Bill of Rights. You get the idea. and probably would tend to also call me a liberal. if not, as one friend has labeled me, a "flaming left-winger." 
Now what is problematic to some peo­ple as far as my liberal tendencies go is the fact that. not only do I fail to support a "woman's right to choose;" 1 actively lobby against it. But it's not problematic at all for me; in fact, I see it as perfectly consistent with my other views. 
As I said, I'm not a feminist (although, as an aside, I would highly endorse the campus chapter of FFL for pro-lifers with a feminist point of view). I have always preferred the company of guys, and can understand their feelings and interests much more than I identify with those of other women. My male friends consider me "one of the guys." With this background. I tend to see little need for all the hype about feminism. That may be a flaw in my character, but I'm just telling you how it is with me. While I don't see feminism as particularly offen­sive and, in fact. have some feminist friends, I as an individual just don't real­ly connect with it. 
Kirsten Du·nne 
Facts are facts. and biologically, I am NOT "one of the guys." (Last time I checked, anyway.) And therefore I do share at least some of the concerns of feminist groups. and I recognize that women do have to deal with some issues that me do not; in some circumstances. they face blatant discrimination. I know this because I've experienced it. While those who look at me incredulously and question whether I am really an attor­ney are probably thrown off moreso by my alternative style of dress than my gender, my gender does play a role in other not-so-pleasant situations I've faced. For example, men who don't know me well just assume that certain topics will offend me and even state aloud that they can't discuss them because "there's a woman in the room." (When I threaten to deck them a good one with my Doc Martens, they usually change their minds.) Perhaps more innocent, but equally insulting, are the men who observe, for instance, that per­sonal injury law is a good field "for a woman," whereas my original choice of criminal defense law would not have been as ideal for someone of my sex. Things like this happen to me with fre­quency. and I won't say for a minute that they don't upset me. They do. And while I still can't see myself as a femi­nist. I recognize that women still face some battles today, battles that men don't have to deal with. 
On the other hand, contrary to pro­abortion activists -usually consisting of people who label themselves "femi­nists"-I don't at all see the woman with an unwanted pregnancy as the most oppressed party in the situation. Where the pregnancy results from con­sensual sex, this is clearly the case, and saying that she should have the "right to choose" is downright insulting, not least of all to that woman. She's had the right to choose. She chose to have sex. she chose when to have sex, and she appar­ently chose against using a reliable form of birth control. So these are choices that don't affect men. or at least do not affect them as directly. But that's got nothing to do with societal discrimina­tion; it's a biological fact. It's your body, so grow up and learn to deal with it. 
Of course, I am much more sympa­thetic to women who become pregnant through rape or other more unfortunate circumstances. However, I still do not view such a woman as more oppressed than the baby growing inside her; I do not think anyone can do so without accepting the distorted premise that the baby is not a human being but is rather simply part of the woman's body. Had this notion not led to such tragic conse­quences, it would be laughable. Therefore, accepting for the moment the more logical and realistic premise that the baby is a developing person, who is very much alive. how do we deal with the question of "choice?" First, we must recognize the obvious: that baby has no choice in the world. Then we must examine the status of the woman who, despite attaining the status of "mother" against her will, DOES have a choice now. She can choose to love and raise the child which, all else aside, is still her flesh and blood. If she fears she cannot be a good parent due to the circum­stances of her pregnancy. she can choose to place the baby with one of the thousands of people nationwide who are aching to adopt and love a child. Or. under the current state of the law. she can choose to kill the child (or, as some make it sound more acceptable. "termi­nate the pregnancy"). As a liberal per­son, who stands up for the downtrodden and oppressed at every step of the way. I simply cannot say that this last choice is ever an acceptable one. And to me, this is not a deviation from my liberality. 
At least I'm not quite as alone in my contentions as I once felt. As I men­tioned above, there is now a campus chapter of Feminists for Life; this phrase may have at one time been considered an anomaly. I am also joined by my good friend Fred Tiemann, NDLS '96 (very cool guy; get to know him!), who, like me, actively lobbies for both the abolition of the death penalty and the right to life. But there is still a pervasive belief that liberals must be "pro-choice," and it's annoying to me, mainly because it's so backwards. I recall in particular one evening when I was attempting to have dinner with some friends after an already-stressful day, and we found our­selves maliciously harrassed by a group of intoxicated Notre Dame students. When the most obnoxious among them realized who I was, he told me to "Shut up! There's a baby sleeping. But what do you care; you support abortion." I can only assume that he derived this conclusion from my positions on the other issues, and I would like to let him know that. not only was he rude and insensitive, but he was wrong. I do care; I care a lot, and I do not-cannot -support abortion. What's more, I pray for the day when everyone realizes that, particularly for liberals as myself, the only true "choice" -both logically and morally -is the choice that favors life. 
Kirsten Dunne works for Goldberg. Weisman and Cairo. Ltd. in Chicago. 
t&TM& 7EU-YOU aJHAT THAT Ho:JP5ABOUT, OK4Y? 
IT's ABOUTTHIN$ G&TTIN6 
'30 BAP IN ?HIS '­COUNTRY ?HAT 
A WH!T£ /WG{..() MAt& IS#RAI[) 
7V <31-fOW HIS FAC&.' 
ANf? THAT'SWHYtu& NEW PAT/ NHO El5E /?CACH/33 OUT 70 7H& VICT/MS OF AFFII<MA­7/V& ACTION? aHERE E/.SE 
IS TH/3 YOUN6, CONC:l3RN&I? 5K/NH&AO 5UPP0513P 70 GO? 
GARRY TRUDEAU 
WHY AM INOT 
SURPR/5£1?, 1'.8e-? rr5 ABe, ISN'TIF 
" 

"Men love war because it 
allows them to look serious. Because it is the one thing that stops women from laughing at them." 
-John Fowles 
VIEWPOINT
Wednesday, March 6, 1996 page 7 
• E1TFI\ -o THE EDITOR 
Setting the holocaust record straight 
The key to meatless Fridays: 
Give up 
complaining 
for Lent 
Dear Editor: 
This may be my first annual reply to the annual com­plaint against Lenten meatless Fridays in thn dining halls. This year's version of the complaint is articulately brought to us by an able wordsmith, Krista Nannery, on Friday last in the Inside column. · 
She says that meatless meals are not a sacrifico if they are not voluntary. Gosh, just like your mother used to serve? Does the term "in loco parentis" mean anything to you? In case you have not recognized the opportunity, your (voluntary) sacrifice lies in eating these meals with­out complaint. 
God bless you. 
MIKE SWADENER Technician, Bessert Center for Aerospace Research 
Rationality not relevant in war 
Dear Editor: 
Professor Delaney of our noble philosophy department was certainly right when he said you can hardly put forth an argu­ment near a philosopher without him up and poking hole in it, just because that's what they do. Let us thank Potter (The Observer, Feb. 23) for proving him correct. 
Potter doesn't seem to understand the context in which Foran's column about our Londoners living in a war zone was written. Instead, he chooses to become irritated by the per­ceived Domer-selfishness and London-sickness of a program alumna ("...she is trivializing a very important and complicat­ed issue with her griping about how it will aiTect the London Program."). 
Now, I will be the first to agree with him that the group as a whole is a bit quirky in their addiction to the limy way of life, but Foran definitely has a point in localizing the issue. 
The context to which I refer above is the bubble we know and love called Notre Dame. If Foran hadn't pointed out how close to our student body this issue is, do you think anybody would have paused at her Inside Column on their way to the Four Food Groups? I don't know how long Potter has been in our lovely family, but it doesn't' take long to learn that the answer is clearly a big "NO." 
Sadly enough. I doubt it made much of an impact anyway. Surely there are some people out there who worry about their friends in London, maybe remembering how many times they themselves sat and read at Trafalgar Square, so close to another recent bomb threat. But the issues raised by the Irish-English war (let's face it, a state of war exists) are not as important to the student body as the dining hall cereal sur­veys! (Pop quiz: how many of you attended last weeks' lecture on human rights violations by the HUC and the British Army? Just curious.) 
So, Potter, if you are so intent on finding "rational argu­ments" for everything, don't approach the topic of war. Is war ever rational? No! 
You are right in your claim that Foran's apparent pacifist position "does not seem to enable one to give a moral justifica­tion of the usc of violence" in the string of conflicts in which the U.S.A. has been involved. But isn't that just the nasty side of war? It's so bloody hard to justify. If violence of any sort were rational, I'd rationalize my way to hitting anyone on the head with a stick anytime I didn't like their opinion. 
I doubt Foran was trying to base a moral argument against this particular conflict upon the safety of 80-odd particular students, so don't whip out your logic on her. I hope she was trying to scare people. I don't think it worked, though . so let's try it again: 
Put your knife and fork down. Ignore your dining hall sur­roundings. Now try to imagine yourself in the JACC, attending a campus-wide Mass. Monk gets up and homilizes on the trag­ic loss or a beautiful, brilliant young person: your friend: your roommate: your classmate. They left with two suitcases and came home in a body bag. 
Wake up! This has been happening for 25 years (hy the "offieial" count) to countless families in In~land and England. There are organizations on this campus trying to do sonwthing to stop it. If fear is what it takes to get morn people involved, 
by God, Potter. let's use it.  It's a sad state of affairs, but hey,  
call me utilitarian.  
SHELBY HIGHSMITH  
Senior  
St. Edward's Hall  

Dear Editor: 
Wn in the Notrn Dame eommu­nity should he r.oneernml about thn quality of our politieal dnhaw and historieal under­standing. Opinions arn often nxagg•~ratPd or misreprnsented wlwn in print, hut we still pause at n•~o-Nazi rlwtorie, whieh we sorrowfully find in a reemJt let­tt~r to thn nditor. 
It is difficult to imagine a plainer nxampl•~ of nno-Nazi argument than Hoger Zalnnraitis's (Feb. 21) "I wish to extt~nd a gnnuirw metal-toed 'Nazi' hoot into your sidn as you lay (sie) gasping for lifn." 
Sonw historieal misn1adings apptHtn~d in anotlwr lPtter on tlw same day, even though the lettnr eond•~mrHHI tlw Nazi n~ginw. "It was not the 'Ctmnans' who lwlieVf~d in the murder of millions, but the Nazi eliw," Creg Bauer's letter stated, "(;nrman soldinrs and citizens did not know of thesn atrocities." Batwr nott~s that not all victims were .Jewish and asks us to ms1wct tlw nwmory of !Wt~ry vie­tim. lin writns that "people of all faiths and cultums were brutally murdt~n~d at tlw hands of the Nazis." We agree with Bauer that we should all emphasize the evil of the Nazi regime and honor its vktims. 
Our memory, however, should not minimize the circles of guilt and eomplicity. Regarding the dairn that the military played no roln in the killings, research during the last ten years by a number of German scholars in the Federal military archives in Freiburg has revealed that the armed forees played a major role in the killings of Jews and Slavs. Neither should we exag­gerate in our description of who were the targets of special aggression. The Nazis specilical­ly sought out people who were mentally ill, physically disabled, homosexual, Communist, Jowish. Homa, Slav, and political opponents (among whom were Christians, Social Demoerats, students, and aristocrats). 
The Nazi regime committed crimes against humanity, but its leaders and functionaries did so, with many supporters, by target­ing particular groups of people. 
We are responsible for what we think we know about history and for how we feel about it. Among the many sources for rPI1nction, one could consider Omer Bartov's "Hitler's Army," 
T. Schulte's 'The German Army ahd Nazi Polides in Occupied Russia," and Christian Streit's "The German Army and the Policies of Genocide" in G. Hirschfeld's "The Policies of Genocide." One can still prof­itably read Hannah Arendt's argument that evil can be unre­markable in her "Eichmann in Jerusalem." 
On the issue of contemporary nco-Nazism, one should consult llans-Georg Betz's artiele "The Two Faces of Hadical Right-wing Populism in Western Europe" in Notre Dame's "Review of Politics" 55 (Fall 1993) and the January Rth "New Yorker" excerpts of Ingo Hasselbach's autobiography (llasselbach led a nco-Nazi movement in East Berlin in the 1980s and 1990s and had ties to American nco­Nazis). 
Let us think carefully about the lessons we draw from histo­ry and let us help to prevent new crimes. 
ANDREW C. GOULD Assistant Professor ofGovernment ROBERTWEGS Professor of f-1 isrory 
• : ·,imOOD 
Republicans whimper and whine 
I had tlw Imst hand I've had in a few weeks. Stwen spades. three diamonds. two dubs, and no ht~arts. Tlwy went board. meaning four hooks, and my partner and I went stwen. We were only down hy twenty points and we could take the lead easily if we playml our cards right. We were in tlw lwginning stages of our game of spades, and our minds Wt'rt~ foeused on talking noisn and winning the han d . hu t t lw n I s m e II ed smoktL I looked up to stH~ smokt! billowing into thn din­ing an~a of tlw Center for Social Concerns from the main hallway. My first n~ac­tion was to locatn an alll~rna­tiv•~ PXit. but I didn't sen tho source of tlw smokn until SOiliPOnP shoutnd SOnW I~XpJn-tiVI~S and not.-d that somnorw threw a smok•~ bomb in the building. 
Tlw NotrP DamP Chapter of the National Assoriation for thf' Advancement of Colored l'twpln wnm holding a Black llistory Month Close­Out .lam in the C.S.C. Saturday night. Most every­one was having a good time. We wen~ a gathering of Black pPopln. enjoying eadt other's company, our musie. our food and our culture without the pressurns of bt~ing Black in America. I, personal­ly, eouldn't ask for much more. At the time of the smok•~ honrh. tlwre were a good numbnr of stu­dents, faculty. stafT. and pnople from South Bend and Mishawaka. What transpired was somewhat vague except for these few faets. A somewhat tall whit•~ mal•~ was staking out the C.S.C. while people wem filing in. From what I understand. he ran in the door, thrnw in a smoke bomb and took off run­ning. Two NAACP members got up from their table. kiekml thn smoke bomb out the door and procPeded to chase afttlr him. Unfortunately they didn't catch him. but they did get a decent df'StTiption. 
Now. I'm not a paranoid person, but this whole situation sounds prPLty shady to me. Many have said that this is just a situation wlwre some silly hoy wanted to play a joke on some people to scare thP slllffings out of them. Many have said that this kid was getting rnvt1ngn on sonworw who was tlwre. I say this kid is up to sonwthing dse. Like I always say it only takes orw sicko Nno-Nazi to do sonw crazy stuff. and I would ratlwr assunw the worsP and. watrh my sll~p. than to blow it off and go about my busirwss and Iw blown up. I've seen it dorw. And if l t:an SPP that sonwone can thmw a smokP homh in a building and get away with littlt~ or no trarn. tlwn lw can throw anything. We all know how easy it is to hop on thn World Wide Web and with a littl•~ time and nfTort find out how to makP a homt~made bomb. Yns. that kind of hate a111l ignorann1 still 11xists. 
l'riJJw example: this past wm1k a certain syndi­ratPd ("()lumnist (Mike Boyko) in a cnrtain nPwspa­lwr (Tiw Chicago Triburw) had taken upt•n hirnscdf to lw tlw pos!Pr boy for thn Bnpublican c:andidate for the l'rPsidnncy who rwnds no postt~rboy, Pat 
Christiane Likely 
Buchanan. One of Buchanan's points on his plat­form deal with immigrants coming in from Mexico and how they supposedly are ruining the economic situation in this country. Interesting concept, I say. I have heard fewer things more stupid in all my life, aside from Santa Claus, the Easter Bunny, and Howard Stern. What I can gather from Buchanan is that he is a scared, insecure White male, and I guess if I were like him, then I probably would whim­
per and whine, too. 
Anyway, Royko holds even 
stronger views of Mexico than 
I have heard from Buchanan. 
I won't quote from him 
directly to spare myself from 
nausea, but he claims, among 
other things, that Mexico has 
never done anything really worthwhile besides provide the world with tequila, Mexico and its government arc the cause of mil­lions of tons of drugs and its paraphernalia getting into our country, and we should turn Mexico into the largest golf resort in the world because Mexicans have done little else with it. Don't criti­cize anyone for doing something you do yourself, or for you Southerners, "sweep around your own front door. before you try to sweep around mine." 
Royko is not witty, nor is he especially insightful or knowledgeable. Sarcasm is a wonderful thing, but let's get to the nitty-gritty, and I'll use my favorite subject, the United States and its govern­ment, to prove my point. Drugs? If Mexico is so decrepit then I must wonder how the drugs get in. I have yet to see a drug factory in the hood. The United States has already been found to be a major part of a widespread drug importation ring where they pump in cocaine, crack, and heroine into the inner cities all over the country. Same thing with guns and ammunition. I think blaming anyone but our government is a cop-out. 
Our sodety is sick, and we don't want to recog­nize it. Not only do I have to worry about a white boy, who fiL<> the description, running around try­ing to blow all us Black folks up, but Buchanan and the whole Republican Party, and God only knows who else, ready and more than willing to compromise my state of mine in this country because h•~'s afraid of anything different than peo­ple who look like him. 
I ask anybody what truly worthwhile thing has the United States ever really done? Ne11d a minute? llmm. let's see. we hav11 pollutnd, dam­aged, dnstroycd, annihilated, killed, and blun­dcwed and fumbled our way throughout history. We have widespread racism, discrimination, cor­ruption, and prejudice. We have the rich control­ling and suffocating the middle and lower classes. We have high taxes, r.rime, and mortality rates, and low wagt~s. security, and safety. Well, I think I'd rathtw have a shot of tequila, and I don't even drink 
("h istiane Ukely is a senior in Pasquerilla We.~t //all. 



ACCE-NT 
page 8 Wednesday, March 6, 1996 
• ACCENT ASKS 
Vihat did you give up for Lent? 

"I gave up the elevator!' 
Betsy LaMore Sophomore, Holy Cross 
"I gave up missing class." 
Mike Silva Sophomore, Alumni 


"I gave up caffeine." 
Sarah Dylag Freshman, Cavanaugh 

"I gave up all food on Wednesday." 
Mike Wong Senior, Morrissey 

"I will go to church twice a week plus Sunday." 
Natalia Tafur Junior, Howard 
"I gave up studying on Tuesday and Saturday every other week." 
Molly O'Rourke Sophomore, McCandless 

The Brothers of the Notre Dame Glee 
By MARY BETH ELLIS Saint Mary's Accent Editor 
The Club not-sings correcll 
1
's quarter to five on a Wednesday afternoon, and the Notre Dame Glee "That's so much more powerfz Club, about to serenade an audience ofbackpacks and empty chairs in Besides their Fall, Christm a Crowley Hall practice room. is arranging itself on risers. Baseball Notre Dame, the Glee Club of caps and overwashed sweatshirts belie the classy sound they're here to hit the road. Their spring b polish as they prepare for a joint weekend concert with the University of hometowns of Clubbers acros Illinois Varsity Glee Club. Director Daniel Stowe raises his hands to lead Colorado before they turn b the Club in one of their trademark pieces, Edvard Grieg's "Brothers, Sing Day parade in St. Louis. 0n. " Why is the Club-with n 
In 1915, twelve men at the University of Notre Dame who liked music them-so well thought it might be fun to hang out and sometimes sing a little. Voila-a received? Glee Club. "They 
Over two thousand Domers have followed in their footsteps; today they're on the Internet and touring everywhere from Saint Mary's to Switzerland. The Notre Dame Glee Club is those guys in the rugby shirts whom the alumni attempt to clap along with in the JACC before each borne football game, the voices you hear crooning from the women's dorms during Singing Valentines each February 14. 
And they're thicker than the mud in North Quad: the NDGC Newsletter opens with "Dear Brothers." 
"It's a neat thing to be able to share the music," says presi­dent Jim Crowe against the backdrop of his fellow Clubbers "Ia-la" ing their ways through warmup scales. "It's a unique feeling when you're standing on the stage at the end of a piece you've just performed very well, and you couldn't have done it without the other guys standing there along­side of you. That's a bond no one can take away. If there's a little bit of animosity between individuals in the group, sud­denly it's wiped away because the audience belongs to everyone there." 
"Come and let--" 
The first bright notes of "Brothers, Sing On" burst onto the winter-dreary room like sunshine. but Stowe's trained ear picks up some wayward voices from the sixty or so singing before him. He wa11es a hand, and the sound fades away as quickly as it had appeared. Do it again. 
"Come and let our-" 
Stowe still isn't happy. Backing up his singers to the first word ofthe phrase, he repeatedly runs the same note-and you get the feeling he'll do it section by section, even Clubber by Clubber if he has to-until they produce the absolute best sound possible. have an appeal," Stowe admit 
"Come and let our swelling song mount like the whirling wind... " This and they perform it well. I'm time Stowe lets them go, the blended voices rising and falling in a tapes­Crowe credits the Club's p try ofsound until they hit another snag. This time they'rejumping a rest. twentieth century ear. Their "Rests have all kinds of electricity," Stowe tells them. "They can be the to breathe. "I attribute (our p 
The Voice of Saint Mary's Women's 
By KRISTIN TRABUCCO members do not mind the time commitme~ Assistant Accent Editor praise the opportunity to meet other st commented, "By the end of the year. we've 
I
talian. Spanish. German. French. English. What do It's a great way to meet people, especiall) these languages have in common? The Saint Mary's classes." Bochy concurred. "It really is fun Women's Choir can sing in all of them. like our own little family." 
Over thirty-five Saint Mary's women comprise the elite At the head of that family is Dr. Men group directed by Dr. Nancy Menk, Associate Professor of director. She has been with the choir for Music and Chalr of the Music Department at Saint Mary's. and each year finds new and interesting, 
The repertoire of the choir is diverse in more ways than challenging, pieces for the choir to per just language. "We sing a really wide variety of music," choir members say Menk has a special affi says choir member Emily Bochy. Much of the focus of the extremley difficult songs, they feel she do choir is on twentieth-century music, because earlier com­job and is a wonderful director. posers did not write music for a woman's voice. This In addition to their many hours of pra focus in no way limits the choir's selection of pieces, the choir puts on several concerts throu though. Although they do not sing pop music, they do per­Every other year is a touring year for the form some older pieces, as well as a few unusual twenti­being an off-year. Last year's tour, durin eth-century songs. was of the South, with performances 
For example, this year the choir is working on a piece Atlanta, and Clearwater, Florida. entitled, "A Dog Walks." "We make the sounds with a A highlight of the trip was the choir's I bell like a dog running," laughs Bochy. Although they the Saint Louis Cardinals' Spring Traininj may do some humorous pieces, the choir is very serious one choir member even got to play the s regarding its performances. Even though it will not be touring this yea1 
"It's very challenging and difficult," remarks choir several appearances scheduled. They will member Erin Shern. Menk has even brought in several several shows during a Spring festivE composers to work directly with the choir. Last year, Michigan, as well as giving their Spring c1 Libby Larson, a top women's composer, came to Saint Mary's in May. The group also sings at n111 Mary's. The choir performed her "Magnificat" with the functions, and has already performed in a I South Bend Symphony Orchestra and with a group of The Women's Choir does stay away fn women from the South Bend Chamber Singers. known songs in their shows. "Twentieth ce 
The group's diversity does not end with its pieces. music is not the type of thing that usually ~ Although the majority of the group are music majors, says Shern. But the group brings professiu many other disciplines are represented in the choir. In and culture to the South Bend community,, addition, students hail from seventeen states are are of Bochy characterizes the choir's pieces th all age levels. Auditions are held for membership to the different style than most people are used year-long choir, and are open to Notre Dame women as gives us something a little different, a little well as those from Saint Mary's, although at present the tie out of the ordinary; and in the process choir is made up of only Saint Mary's students. The choir little something new about music which practices four days a week for one hour each day. Choir music major would never be exposed to. 

ACC~NT --
Wnlncsday, March 6, 1996 page 9 

•
;Jc 0 

'lub celebrate 80 years of a capella excelleJI\ce 
. Music, paradoxically. can have its most 
011 the next try. "Excellent," Stowe beams. so much more exciting. " 
Spring, and Commencement concerts at .n packs up white glow~s and sheet music to .ak tour-a crazy-quilt whirlwind through 
tlw country-will take them all the way to 
I·:ast to catch up with the Saint Patrick's 
a single full-fledged music major among 
. "Tiu•y haw a love of good music, 
riliPd hy llwir continuing popularity." 
tPnor-hal'itorw-bass mix. nowl to the late 1ostly a capella harmonies allow the music 1larityJ in part to tlw uniqunness of an all-
male sound ... it's a sound that's kind of fallen by the wayside," he says . "It's unusual for guys to do this type of thing today." That sound leads to such phenomena as the Fifth Harmonic, an a capella group of five Clubbcrs whose smooth, ladies-hold-on-to-your-estrogen style rakes in perpetual favorable receptions. 
And all sixty members arc hams. The Glee Club boasts a sparkling con­cert personality that fits well with both their sacred pieces and contempo­rary seiRctions. Stowe makes it a point to encourage his Clubbers to in­teract with their audiences by having them put down their music folders, step up to the mike, and introduce a song or two. "It's important to get past the folders and connect with the audience," Stowe says. "There's a 
sheet of glass there. If you break through it, the audience will climb 
in." The Club has become expert glass shatterers under Stowe; this year's Christmas Concert saw members utilizing every­thing from pratfalls to jingle bells to capture the crowd. 
The day of the concert, and the dorm-rat look has been traded for ties and tails. Competitive as any varsity team on campus. ND's Glee Club has taken the stage, determined to show up their lllinois guests before the home crowd. Folk songs. spirituals. and the 11./ma Mater float to the rafters and envelope the audience. 
Not that achieving a packed tour schedule and a stack of recordings over the years has been easy. Club is a major time commitment. Concerts are frequent, and practices run for just under two hours nearly every class day. 
Hehearsals are fraternal sweatshop affairs during which parts arc hammered out, foreign texts translated, and dynam­ics endlessly attended to. Stowe's voice frequently slices through the singing: "Always open vowels ... not bad, now lighten up on the last syllable ... Crescendo-good." Up on the risers, some of his singers unconsciously conduct along with him, making themselves one with the sound as much as possi­ble. Ilands are often raised in the midst of a song, offering constructive criticism. If a member charges that the basses are lazy on a meter... Stowe runs the basses. "People try to point out the flaws in advance of a concert," Crowe says. "Everyonn has a vested interest in how the group does." Just part of the brotherhood. 
Concert aftermath. and the main lobby of Washington Hall t~<; a sea ofblack and white. As the two groups exchange com­pliments, some Domers hold scattered private conferences, trying to determine "who won" before both clubs adjourn to Bruno's. Guess what, guys-the winners were the audience. 
!I./though the notes from the final piece have long since drift­ed away. some Club/mrs are still singing to themselves-"Come and let our swelling song mount like the whirling wind"... as if already prepping for tlze next time the curtain rises on this eighty year old tradition. 
, though; tlwy 
udonts. Shern rt!ally hondt!d. from diiTtH"!Hll . We'rn kind of 

tlw group's Jver tPn yPars, ot to nwntion lrm. Although ity for pieki ng s llll PXCPIJIHlt 
il"t! per wnnk, out tlw ytmr. oup. this ynar 
Spring Brnak, Hichmond, 
rformanee at eamp. wlwre adi um organ. , thn ehoir has bt! performing llolland, rH~nrt at Saint 
!S and otlwr aiJ eonCI~rl. m most well­
lury womtm's raws t:rowds." nalism. talm1t. 
tlw nation. 
way: "It's a to." Tlw choir unusual. a lit­l tnadws us a tlw lnss-than 
"Joseph" mania covers South Bend; sold out shows begin tonight 
By MELANIE WATERS Assisranr Accem Editor 
W
lat's blaek and white...and green, red, yellow, purple, blue, pink, and orange all over? It's 'Joseph and the Amazing Technicolor Dreamcoat," and it bursts into the Morris Civic Auditorium tonight. Andrew Lloyd Webber's first performed work has come a long way since its prnmiere in a London elementary school in 1968. Webber, in collaboration with lyricist Tim Rice, wrotn the production to be performed by schools and colleges. However, "Joseph" has obviously made a lasting impression on the professional stage. 
Aceording to the Morris Civic Box Office, all of the performances from March 6-10 are sold out. Three additional performances have bnen added for March 11-13, easily making "Joseph" the most anticipat­ed produetion of the season. 
Whiln extra performances may be a welcome gift to ticket seekers, the additional shows are sure to take their toll on the local "stars" of "Joseph." The show calls for a sizable cast of actors and dancers. but also requirns the help of many backup singers. What makes "Joseph" unique is the age require­mt!nt of these important crooners: 10-14. 
The national touring company opens auditions for members of "Joseph's" children's choir about a month before the production begins. II ere in South Bend, two local choirs have the honor of performing onstage as a part of the east of the show. Clay United Methodist Church and Stanley Clark School stu­dents have been eagerly awaiting opening night after three grueling weeks of practice, practice, and more ·practice. 
Debbie Myers. director of Clay United's children's choir, said that her 19 singers have rehearsed every other night to learn 22 songs in three weeks. Not surprisingly, Myers admits that "they're tired! But," she said, "they're really nnnrgized. The songs arc lots of fun." 
Stanlny Clark director Amy Lukn agreed and said that rehearsals have been really intense. In addition to vocals, tlw students had to learn choreography and staging this past weekend with "Joseph's" choir dirnetor. Luke said that she chose the most "energetic and lively singers" out of the many auditionees at Stanley Clark, and that many have been involved with the school's drama program. However, many of the young singers are understandably nervous about their "big debut." 
"It'll bn interesting to sen how well they knep thnir focus on stage with the cast," Luke noted. The ar.tual touring mst, h~d by Brian Lane Green in the title role, arrived in South Bend only last night. The students will have one hour on stage for a sound check with the cast tonight, and then the brightest SJWCladP on Broadway hits the stage. 
".JosPph" r.an hardly be descrihml on paper, but it's guaranteed to entertain everyone, from the the­atrically ehallnnged to the most snasoned Broadway critic. Whern else can you lind a Biblical tale t~at ineorporatos reggae, country, disco, an Elvis-wannabe, and a finale that's as spectacular as the ent1re production'? Find a way to buy a tieket, and make sure you "Go, go, go..." 
• ACCENT SAYS 

Lenten Longing 
By CATHERINE DEELY Assistant Accent Editor 
Lent is a truly beautiful time of year. It is also a very thought-provoking and special observance. Catholic or not, everyone has the opportunity during the Lenten season to find out a little more about themselves and their faith. I would never attempt to detract from such meaning. 
However, there is another side of Lent that emerges, furtively and involuntarily, in all of us who have uttered those confident, oil-so-unwit­ting words: "I can give THAT up for Lent. No problem!" That side is called desperation, and it is born of deprivation. 
The sacrifices made for Lent ure n wide and colorful variety. There are those of the true and heartfelt type-those few brave and perse­vering souls who give up something near and dear to them, whether it be the music they love or the weekly "Friends" indulgence that gets them through eaeh tiresome, exam-laden week. Then there are the "get off easy" slack­ers. who will insist to the death that they are making an unimaginably burdensome saeri­lke... when in fact, they have nearly no ties, emotional or otherwise, to their offering. These are the fort'1sakers of Irish Mint yo-cream who have tasted it exactly twice, yet who will bemoan its loss heartrendingly as long as an audience is present to hear and pity their dtw­astation. 
As for the vast majority of us, well, we tend to fall somewhere in the middle of these two equally tragic extremes. Yet we are all tho same at our do-good Lenten hearts we start oft' ever so proud of our achievement and willpow­er... and then we get nasty. 
It begins with the small twinges of want: the impulse to utter the forbidden four-letter word at the slightest provocation after giving up obscenities; the temptation to sneak "just one" Hershey's Kiss after solemnly swearing off chocolate. But yes, oh definitely, we reassure ourselves, these lapses in focus are only momentary. We have it ALL under control. By the latter part of Lent, this facade has crum­bled entirely. Desperation has, at long last, set in. 
We will fight it to the end, even when such resistance has long since become futile. The temptation is taking over. but we will not admit it to ourselves; we insist upon staging our last stands anyway. My roommate, who will be known only as M. to protect her from the shame of Lenten defeat, is a prime example. She swore off the convenience of taking eleva­tors of any sort. and held to it: she was much more dedicated than the vast majority on this campus (including certain anonymous room­mates of her own. who, hypothetically speak­ing, MAY have sacrificed indulgence in particu­lar imported beverages.) So committed to her cause was M., in fact, that. one early weekend morning, in a certain male dorm with many, many floors, suffering from a rather altered sense of balance, and on one of the higher of these many, many noors, she refused to use the elevator to get to the lobby. She protested, she insisted, she complained that she eould not break her vow; it was a truly noble efl'ort. 
But, of course, after a messy showdown and a great deal of prodding, M. stepped on the ele­vator ... and all over her past demonstration of inner strength. 
Her story, while exceptionally sad, is not without good company. All throughout the land beneath the Golden Dome. and Saint Mary's as well, secret warriors in the battle against temptation struggle to coneenl their weakness. They may mask it with boasting and extrava­gant displays ... but believe me...it's still there. 
So the next timo you innocently debatn aloud whether to have one or two cups of morning coffee in thP. dining hall. b£1 very con­scious of the haggard-fa~ed figure slou~hing in the shadows with rabid eyes fixed upon the co!Teepot in red-orbBd longing. Smile brightly, ... ofl'er, "Hey, happy Lont!" ... 
. .And run while you still can. 
Wednesday, March 6, 1996 The Observer • SPORTS page 10 
• SPRING TRAINING 
Mets top draft pick shines; Gonzalez back to form 
Associated Press 
KISSIMMEE, Fla. 
Top draft pick Paul Wilson and Hector Ramirez pitched three scoreless innings apiece as four New York Mets com­bined to limit the Houston Astros to seven hits in a 4-0 vic­tory Tuesday. 
Wilson, the first pick in the 1994 amateur draft, allowed four hits and two walks, but escaped trouble in the first and third innings with double-play grounders. 
The victory was preserved with two innings of work by left-hander Pedro Martinez, who played for the Astros last season, and Joe Ausanio, who pitched the ninth. 
The Mets took a 1-0 lead in the second when Butch Huskey homered off loser Greg Swindell. A double by former Astro Chris Jones drove in Jay Payton to give New York a 2-0 lead in the fourth. 
Mets ss 4, Marlins ss 2 
Jeff Kent and Kevin Roberson homered to lead New York Mets over the other squad of Marlins. 
Kent hit the Mets' first home run of the spring in the second inning off John Burkett. Roberson connected in the eighth off reliever Miguel Batista, the fifth Marlins pitch­er. 
New York's Rick Reed pitched two scoreless innings for the save. 
Jose Vizcaino went 3-for-3, and Lance Johnson had two hits for New York. 
Andre Dawson went 2-for-3 for the Marlins. 

Braves 9, Marlins ss 1 
Jermaine Dye hit a grand slam Tuesday to help the Atlanta beat the other Florida squad. 
The Marlins, who split their squad and also lost to the New York Mets 4-2, falling to 0-6. Among the 20 teams training in Florida, only the Marlins are without a victory. 
Dye, who played at Double-A Greenville last season, homered against Terry Mathews. Marquis Grissom and Rafael Belliard had two hits apiece, and Ryan Klesko drove in two runs. 
Cuban defector Livan Hernandez pitched three score­less innings, retiring the final nine Braves he faced. 

Pirates 9, Phillies 8 
Pinch hitter Keith Osik, a re­placement player last spring, singled home the winning run in the bottom of the ninth inning for Pittsburgh. 
AI Martin led off with a dou­ble off loser Ricardo Jordan, and scored when Osik hit a sharp single to left field past a drawn-in infield. Osik, a non­roster player, is trying to make the Pirates as a third-string catcher and utility player. 
Mark Whiten went 4-for-4 for Philadelphia. Pittsburgh's Kevin Young had three hits -two doubles and a 
triple -and three RBis. He is hitting .778 (7-for-9) in three spring games. Jay Bell added two hits for the Pirates, includ­ing a three-run homer. 
Rangers 3, Yankees 1 
Juan Gonzalez, trying to put an injury-filled 1995 season behind him, homered and made a fine defensive play for Texas. 
Gonzalez hit his first homer of spring training, in the fourth in­ning, off loser Rich Monteleone. 
Moments earlier, Gonzalez made a perfect throw from right field on a fly ball by Jim Leyritz that forced Paul O'Neill to hold at third base. 
Texas added two runs in the seventh inning, on an RBI sin­gle by Damon Buford and squeeze bunt by Rene Gonzales. 
Starter Melido Perez pitched three shutout innings for the Yankees. He struck out five and walked two. Rangers starter Kevin Gross had allowed one hit and struck out three in three innings. 

Reds 5, Tigers 3 
Barry Larkin and Hal Morris had run-scoring singles in the seventh inning for Cincinnati. 
Curtis Goodwin singled to start the inning and stole sec­ond against loser Greg Gohr. Goodwin scored on the single by Larkin, who stole second before Morris singled him home. 
Detroit took a 2-0 lead in the third against starter Pete Schourek on a run-scoring dou­ble by Chris Goinez and an RBI single by Travis Fryman. 
Bret Boone homered in the fourth for Cincinnati. 
The Tigers tied it in the sev­enth on a double by Danny Bautista and a single by Shannen Penn. 
Hector Carrasco pitched the ninth to collect his second con­secutive save. 
Blue Jays 4, Twins 3 
Joe Carter had a homer among three hits, scored twice and drove in a run as Toronto won its third straight game. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. 
Classifieds Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
NOTICES I ._l_w:_J\_N_T_E_o_ __. NAZZ!! CRUISE SHIPS NOW HIRING­March 21, 1996 Earn up to $2,000+/month working 8 PM @ Stepan on Cruise Ships or Land-Tour com­Battle of Campus Bands panies. World travel. Seasonal & Food and Drinks full-time employment available. No All for Free!! experience necessary. For more information call 1-206-971-3550 Come see the best of the campus ext.C55843 bands compete for the coveted title of NAZZ!! BIG EAST TICKETS WANTED I need a ride for Spring Break to the TOP$$$ PAID New York City I Southern New York area. Will help drive and pay for (800)269-5849 gas. Please call Dan at 4-0654. $ Cruise Ships Hiring! Students EUROPE $229 Needed! $$$+Free Travel Be a little flexible and save $$$ (Caribbean, Europe, Hawaiil) We'll help you beat the airline Seasonal/Permanent. No Exper. prices. Necessary. GDE. 919-929-4398 ext Destinations Worldwide C1114 AIRTICHtm 800·397-1098 airtich@ netcom.com ALASKA EMPLOYMENT-Students Needed! Fishing Industry. Earn up to $3,000-$6,000+ per month. Room and Board! Transportation! ILOST & FOUND I Male or Female. No experience necessary. Call (206)971-3510 LOST • at Cavanaugh/St.Ed's extA55844 Formal: long navy blue wool woman's coat and men's navy blaz­Responsible babysitter needed for er both at Alumni/Senior Bar on 2 and 6-year-old. Any major block Friday night. Please call x-1407 of time 9:30-5:00 M-F. Great loca­tion 10 miles south of ND. Call Please Help! 299-0051. I lost my long black coat at Senior Bar on 2/23. Please call if you know where it is. Thanks. L..,___F_O_R_RE_N_T_ __.I Laura x1553 IRISH CO. B&B REGISTRY Stay at the "MOOSE KRAUSE LOST-FOSSIL WATCH HOUSE" or other approved homes. I lost a brown fossil watch with a Grad. -Football games brown woven band and a blue face. 219-277-7003 It has great sentimenatal value! If found please call Amy at x2326. Faculty or student 4 Bdrm -2 baths turn. appliances-washer-dryer Lost-gold clauddaugh ring attached 2 car garage off street (heart with surrounding hands) parking. Available in Aug. for lease. at JPW -the gala dance 234-13361v Msg -great sentimental value. Angela x4704 CLAY Twnshp-NEW OFFERING: 1, 2 & 3 Bedrooms Available: FOUND $350.00 -$500.00/mo Utilities I accidently picked up the wrong INCLUDED. 272-1968. jacket from Bridgers's. If you lost a Columbia jacket there, call Eddie at BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY x4010. 219-291-7153  1421 N. Oak Hill Dr., by owner, immaculate, two full baths, garage, finished lower level. walk to ND. range, dishwasher, microwave, refrigerator, washer/dryer, garage door opener, $77,900, ph. 277-8898 JUDAY CREEK gem. Well-maintained, 4-bedroom ranch with a 17 x 25 home office & 3·car garage. 5 minutes to ND. REDUCED TO $149,500 Call Karen 272-3653. Waterfront Condos 1 Bedrooms from $52,000 2 Bedrooms from $80,000 New Decor EVERYTHING included Close to Notre Dame BEAUTIFUL! NORTH SHORE CLUB 232-2002 Rossignal Skis( 190) w/Tyrolia 420 bindings & poles (gd cond) $150. It's a steal273-9176 (Trent). TICKETS WANTED: BIG EAST&FINAL FOUR TICKETS. WILL PAY$$$. CALL DAYS (800)444-8425. EVE (908)536-3431 I PERSONAL 05117 03/19 0o0o0o0o0o0o0o0o0o0o0 QUALITY COPIES, QUICKLY!!! THE COPY SHOP LaFortune Student Center Phone 631-COPY 0o0o0o0o0o0o0o0o0o0o0 Enthralling Conversation Guaranteed in exchange for ride to Harrisburg, PA or nearby on Friday March 8 after 1 :05 pm. Will pay share of tolls, gas, etc. Please call Erin ASAP x3777 RIDE DESIRED: FROM Southern NY or Northern NJ back to Campus on March 17th. Will pay share and keep driver entertained for hours! Brian x1173  Overworked and underpaid. PC really needs a slush fund. I love staying up all night and watching you drink Nestle quick at 6:00am. PC and Caroline and Maureen deserve Nobel prizes for founding SWKMBEFLWLOHM (SMCs Who Keep Mary Beth Ellis From Losing What's Left of Her Mind) Lisa the archie who lives on Bulla Road is a babe! Grrrrr! "Ziggy played for time, jiving us that we were voodoo The kids were just crass, he was the NAZZ With the Gid given ass He took it all too far but boy could he play guitar" You too can be the NAZZ -orat least be at NAZZ 8pm March 21 -Stepan It's the big 2-0!! Happy Birthday, Ernie! Love, Bert Cigarettes and whisky and wild, wild women ... Operation Paradise Cometh ... The Liberation is imminent! Calif. actress-writer wife & photog­rapher husband wish to adopt new­born. Will provide love, nurturing environ., educ., financial security. Hollywood Hills home has large back yard and loving dog. Call 818/241-5535 collect. Legal & Confidential. Do you have a ride home for SPRING BREAK yet? Place a classified ad in The Observer!!! It's inexpensive and effective! ... They'll drive ya crazy, they'll drive ya insane. Attention  $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ NEED MONEY FOR SPRING BREAK? Morrissey Student Loan Fund Dooley Rm(Across from info desk) M-F 11:30am-12:30pm one day waiting period 30 day loan @ 1% interest LAST DAY FOR SENIORS IS FRIDAY, MARCH 8, 1996 $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ They don't make 'em any finer than Ryan Walsh and Matt Golish They don't make 'em any finer than Ryan Walsh and Matt Golish "It'll be Fine!" ••ATTENTION MUSICIANS .. ZAHM HALL ACOUSTICAL JAM April 3, LaFortune Ballroom Benefitting Logan Center PERFORMERS NEEDED!! If you are interested in playing a set at the Jam, contact: Bryan x1919 or Anthony x3544 Hey Murray! I owe you a beer .... How bout a little BT, DT, instead of all that BS? It seems a cycle that we all seem to share The passing from hand to hand of our pride and despair Both parent and child cry apathy but everybody cares And then we vanish in thin air And only time is there Time and a legacy Hang in there HUST majors. three days and counting ... HAPPY 21st BIRTHDAY KATE McCANN!!! Don't go too crazy! Love, your friends in 2A  Leslie, welcome to the ninth circle of hell. Henceforth, you shall live on the shuttle. Avoid the ones th<JI endlessly circle Married Student Housing. (Oh wait, that would be all of them.) Also don't sit in the scary brown chair. Steal the good ones from News. Goooood luck! Call me if you ever need to stop the insanity. Dante is going to be like Alanis this weekend, "It's like rain." GTech is going to need all the Barry Brothers and maybe even Marco Coleman and Ken Swilling. It still won't be enough. And now he's even lami­nated. Speaking of Italians : Val, how's the hair? Head, get ready to see the best franchise in pro sports. Go BoSox. Hey Sports Scribe, Heartbreak Hill ain't nuthin'. I'm game. Maybe the Big 0 will pay for me to cover it. I love excess. Yoooog. Yoooomah. So what? America's Grease Monkey Capital versus the Hub of America? It's an NC'er kid. No contest. The city of circles can't wait for Carolina Blue body paint. Bookstore Basketball Finals Prediction: Boggs and the Sisters vs. Fat Chance I Team John Black Dominello, G.K. Tussterton, and Casper will touch no women in Panama City Wild West Tour '96 Countdown: 2 Days Casper is the Dopist Ghost in town Missing: One can of Vaseline. If found contact Gordy LaChance. That means you, Jess!! Three days 'till Hilton Head! Three days 'till Hilton Head! Bubba Come will dominate book­store. Well. maybe not but at least we have a cool name.  
..  LOST I lost a green fleece Eddie Bauer pullover at Bridget's. If you found it please call Eddie at x40 1 0 found small amount of money outside of doors on sunday the 25th. Call 273-6205 to verify arnount. LOST SAPPHIRE EARRING­dark blue stone. Great Sentimental Value!!! If found please call Amy at 4-4836  HOMES FOR RENT 232-2595 5 bdrms, 2 full baths, alarm sys, refrig, stove, partially furnished. Heat incl. Completely remodeled. 606 N. St. Peter. 289-5999 or 255-9471 Mark Kramer. FOR SALE H P 48G sci calc w/ cham app card x3692  TOP TEN QUOTES FROM PUR­DUE GYMNASTICS MEET (2/10/96): 1. Yeah! We beat Jeff! 2. O.K. Who wants to lube me up? 3. I'm being stalked! 4. I'm just coming around to go to the bathroom, but if spontaneous changing happens to occur, it' sok. 5. She's SO touchy feely. 6. If you can't beat 'em, sleep with 'em. 7. Karla, the stripper! 8. OK, we're famous. Now we just need to be naked. 9. Tom, I have long EVERYTHING,  -Class of 1998­Help us be your voice ... Applications for the 1996-97 Junior Class Council are available for pick-up in the Student Government Office (2nd floor LaFortune). Applications due: 3-20-96 GRIFFIN • FREEDY NOLAN • STRONSKY "The Voice of 98"  Treacy-You may have 50,00 pubs at your disposal, but I've got the Linebacker, baby, and that's all I need Tara­You'lllive, woman. I'll miss you a lot , though. Thanks for everything Love, Megan The time has come to be gone!  Valerie always wanted to see her name in print. Lacy, Christine, and Brigitte have nothing to worry about Hey Jill, I hope you like Michigan! We're really gonna miss you though. Dente­I'm already there. Beatrice Bret Heidman, Here's your personal. Still hooking up with my friends? Tell the London  

FOUND: Calculator in lockers at NSH, problably for the Mon. 
12:20 ChemLab. Call X2061 to identify. 
For sale: Mac LC computer with color monitor, stylewriter printer, Hayes modem. Like new. $500.00 OBO. Call Dave at 233-2588 you saw me in the shower. 
I am really lucky to have someone like Leslie Field on my stall. 
DO YOU LIKE TO WRITE? Join the Saint Mary's Observer staff. We want you. Call Caroline Blum 631-4540 or 284-4349. 
ATTENTION DEAR ONES OF MARY BETH ELLIS: Praise report: MBE has left the building. Good thing The Big 0 has given this SMC her life back!!!! 
Program I said Hi you big stud you. 
Anybody com at you yet? What I mean is: Anybody get to you yet? We all need friends in here. I can be a friend to you. 
' 
Wednesday, March 6, 1996 The Observer • SPORTS page II 

• MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBAll 
-
Fielder not content rebuilding OlyDlpic tea01 not an 
By HARRY ATKINS 
As~ociateJ Press 
lAKELAND, Fla. 
Cecil Finldnr has made it dtmr he doesn't want to be in Dntroit while the Tigers try to mhuild. Yet that doesn't mean lw will be disruptive. 
If' tht~ first few days of' spring training are any indication, Finldnr could he a unifying force on the team. 
A couple of months ago, Fitddnr generated headlines wlwn he told a Florida newspa­per IH~ would rather be traded than languish on a rebuilding D11troit team. I lis words were not rnc11ivt~d kindly back home. 
Tlw Tigers would likn to traue Fil1lder. But his hefty contract makes him unallraetive to most other teams. who don't want to pay $7.2 million a year to a .24:{ hitWr, IWIHJ if lw does hit :w honwrs. 
Fitdder SIH1ms rnlaxeu anu calm. lie's even lost a little weight. lin wants to put the trade talk behind. 
"I said what I said. But I can't go out thnrn and say that every day," Fielder says. 
Fielder could make life miser­able for Buddy Bnll, tlw Tigers' nnw manager. Fielder eould turn tlw dubhousn into a sour. unhappy plac1~ if he has a bad 
altitude. Fielder has chosen not to go that route. 
"Cecil's attitude has meant a lot," Bell said. "But I really didn't expect anything differ­ent. The reason I say that is because I talked to a lot of peo­ple about Cecil." 
Bell also played it smart. lie talked to Fielder, too. 
"He wants what's best for Cecil," Bell said. "But he also wants what's best for the orga­nization." 
Bell and his highly organized coaching staff have run a model camp. Every minute of every day before the exhibition games began was planned. 
Fielder has been impressed. "I told Buddy we might be all right," Fielder said. 
With Fielder setting the pace, the Tigers hit seven homers in their first four exhibition games. Thirteen of their first 23 runs were scored on homers. 
"We've got enough punch," Fielder said. "Everybody knows what it's going to depend on. What we've got to do is spot a pitcher down here. We need somebody to step up and help." 
It could happen. A few years ago, the Tigers took a big gam­ble on a washed up left-hander from the Toronto organization. David Wells came to spring 
LEXIS/NEXIS AT NOTRE DAME 
Many ofyou are becoming familiar with the Libraries' various electronic resources, particularly as they are made available through the Libraries' homepage on the World Wide Web. Each of these carries with it its own restrictions on the nature and volume of use. One service that is particular­ly problematic, because of its vendor restrictions, is the Lexis!Nexis service from Reed Elsevier, Inc. Our contract with the vendor provides for a major discount as an.academic institution. Thus, in 1994 we paid a total of $7,679 for services that would have cost $159,034 at the commercial rate. However, this contract also carries very severe restrictions. This service can be used only for teaching related pumoses and only by faculty and students of the University of Notre Dame. University staff and non Notre Dame personnel are not entitled to use the service. Moreover, the service should not be used for purely personal purposes or for research that is not related to course work. While the Libraries will not routinely monitor th~ use of this service, we ask that all our users be aware that violations ofour contract agreement by individuals on campus could result in the cancellation of the service at Notre Dame. This has happened at several institutions where violations were detected by the vendor. 
I and your fellow users ofthe Lexis!Nexis service will greatly appreciate your compliance with the spirit ofour contract. 
Robert C. Miller Director of Libraries 
THE&iS(j 
a~&; ,~. 
:( ~ 
-· -·· ··-· ­
·cLun· 
is hiring 
training with the Tigers and showed some signs of life. 
Detroit got two good prospects, pitcher C.J. Nitkowski and infielder Mark Lewis, when they traded Wells to. Cincinnati last season. 
Fielder, meanwhile, has worked with Tony Clark. It is a bit unusual, because Clark is the young man who would like someday to take Fielder's job away. 
If. the Tigers can develop Clark into a dependable first baseman, they would use Fielder more as a designated hitter. Some players might ob­ject to that, but Fielder has been trying to help Clark along. 
"We've got to get Tony out there and let him play," Fielder s11-id. "lie's going to help us. All he needs is confidence." 
Sounds like a young first baseman the Tigers once res­cued from Japan. llis name was Cecil Fielder. 
Please Recycle 
The 
Observer 
Raise Your Scores! 
SaUslaction Guaranteed 
Small Classes • Dynamic Instructors Practice Testing • Free Extra-Help 
~ ~~~CETON 800/2-RfVIEW 
.... REVIEW lllla.e•fclll@riVliW.CI• 
lP.R. Is not affiliated witll Pnnceton University or E.T.S. 
BARTENDERS 
for the 96-97 Season. 
Pick up Applications at Student Activities, 315 LaFortune. Must be 2 1 + by September, 1996 
• 
option for Iron Man 
By DAVID GINSBURG Associated Press 
ST. PETERSBUHG, Fla. 
By the time he finally retires, the much-decorated Cal Ripken will have accomplished just about everything a ballplayer could imagine. 
One thing he won't have, how­ever, is an Olympic gold medal, and the Baltimore Orioles' shortstop regrets never having had the chance to play on a baseball Dream Team. 
"I would have liked the oppor­tunity to play in an Olympic atmosphere," said Hipken, a two-time American League Most Valuable Player. "The tours in Japan I've been on with an All­Star team were exciting, and a lot of excitement would be cre­ated by a Dream Team." 
Until 1992, the Olympic bas­ketball team was comprised of mainly college players. Before that, the Dream Team was only a dream, because professionals were not allowed to participate. 
"Growing up, you have a view of amateur athletics and the Olympics, and there was some­thing really special about that," Ripken said. "But if you really start to dig into it and look at the Olympics. a question might be, is it really amateur or more professional, and should we showcase the best we have in the country?" 
The U.S. Olympic basketball committee in 1989 deemed that professionals should be allowed to participate in the sport, and that's how the Dream Team came about. The U.S. baseball team, however, is still made up of amateurs, in part because the Olympics are held in the midst of the major league season. 
"I don't know whether I'm ready to take a stand, but as a player I'd want to participate in a Dream Team situation like that," Ripken said. 
He got a taste of what the Olympic experience might be like when he toured Japan with a group of major leaguers, but he still doesn't know what it would be like to play alongside some of the best names in the sport while representing the United States. 
"It would be great for me to get a chance to play with all these other players you don't get a chance to play with and see some of the players from the National League," he said. "The greatest thing about an All-Star Game is that you get to be with the other players, to see them up close and more personal than when you play against them." 
Hipken, the 1982 AL Hookie of the Year, who has played in a major-league record 2,153 con­secutive games, will be 40 when the 2000 Olympics get under way in Sydney, Australia. If the eligibility rules change in the next four years, and if the major leagues can work out a schedule to allow the players to par­ticipate, perhaps Hipken ean live his dream after all. 
"I can't imagine still playing shortstop then," he said. "But I didn't think I'd be doing it this long, either." 
Colleen, Don't get faced on your birthday! 

Happy Birthday Colleen! 

Love, Your "pals" in 223 and 223 
n 
Student Activity Employee Applications Available Now! 
Applications are being accepted from now until March 22 for all positions in LaFortune Student Activities Office (under the supervision of the Student Activities Office) and Stepan Center. 
Applications can be picked up at the Student Activites Office, 315 LaFortune, or at the LaFortune Information Desk. 
Apply now for a great opportunity and learning experience! 
------~~-----­
page 12 The Observer • SPORTS 
-

Big East tries to shake NCAA jinx 
By JIM O'CONNELL 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK 
It hasn't been easy being Big East tournam~nt champion the last few years. Not because of how hard it is to win the title, rather because of the lack of NCAA tournament success that has followed.The first two teams to win the league's automatic berth in the 1990s, Connecticut and Seton Hall, did OK. 
The Huskies lost in overtime to Duke in the regional finals on a last-second shot by Christian Laettner. Seton Hall also lost in the regional finals, falling to de­fending national champion UNLV. Since then. however, the postseason resume of the con­ference champion has been sparse. 
In 1992, Syracuse lost to Massachusetts in overtime dur­ing the second round. Then came Seton Hall, a second­round loser to Western Kentucky as a No. 2 seed and Providence, a first-round loser to Alabama in 1994. 
Villanova lost in triple over­time to Old Dominion in the opening round last season as a No. 3 seed, the league's fourth straight tournament champion to flop. 
"I've read so much about how much the Big East tournament rllessed us up last year. I don't buy it. We messed ourselves up last year," Villanova coach Steve Lappas said. "We're going there to win the tournament and then do what we have to do the next week. We'll find out if we learned anything from last sea­son. You can't tell. Do I think we did? Yeah. But I can't tell." 
The tournament begins Wednesday at Madison Square Garden with five games -No. 12 Syracuse vs. Notre Dame; Boston College vs. Pittsburgh; Providence vs. St. John's; Miami 
IRISH COUNTRY BED &BREAKFAST REGISTRY 
The Preferred Registry 
Stay at the 
Moose Krause House 
or other approved homes for Graduation, Football Weekends, and Special Events 
To reserve:
·' Call (219)277·7003 • FaH (219)273·2455 
vs. Rutgers; and West Virginia vs. Seton Hall. 
The top three seeds -No. 4 Connecticut, No. 6 Georgetown and No. 9 Villanova -received byes into Thursday's quarterfi­nals. Connecticut (27 -2) broke its own record for league wins with 17 after having had 16 each of the last two seasons. 
"The record over the last three years says volumes about our kids," Huskies coach Jim Calhoun said. "The regular sea­son has meant a lot to our pro­gram and so does the tourna­ment." 
Lappas gets star guard Kerry Kittles back after a three-game suspension for unauthorized use of a university telephone credit card. While he was out, the Wildcats (24-5) beat Boston College in between losses to Connecticut and Georgetown. 
"I felt we had a tough week playing three games without Kerry," Lappas said. "Winning at Boston College was a great win. I'm looking forward to get­ting the team back and doing what we have to do in the Big East tournament.' 
Georgetown coach John Thompson said the recent fail­ure of Big East tournament champions in the NCAAs isn't a trend to be feared by the coach­es and players. 
"You hear that argument from a lot of people, but I don't think so necessarily," he said. "The 
EUROPE 
~ON DON $219 PRRIS $229 FRRNHFURT $229 ZURICH $285 
fires ire frornlndiinipolis.eithWiqbiSedonaHTpurchase.faresdo nolincludefederaltaxesind passengerfitiliNescharges. which can total between Sl9.9S and S31.9S. depending on 11le desNnition. nordotheqincludedeparturechirgespiiddirectlqtotororeigngov­ernrnents. Which can total between Sl.OO ind $60.00.Intl StudentiO rniq be required. fares are suject to chinge. Restrictions ipplqYilid for depirtures before 31 Mirth 1996 
EuropassfromS210 
Travel

'-------~ 
CIEE: Council on International Educational Exchange 
On the Web: http://www.ciee.org/cts/ctshome.htm 
1-800-2-COUNCIL 
[1-800-226-8624] 
emotional high is a lot but other champions have gone on and done well. You have to be consistent and focus. Young peo­ple are unpredictable so it's dif­ficult to say the tournament is the reason why you're success­ful or not successful." 
Wednesday's result could go a long way to ensuring Boston College (17 -9) and Providence (16-1 0) receive what are ex­pected to be the league's fifth and sixth bids into the field of 64.The latest RPI Report, a com­puter rating based in Indianapolis, has Boston College 41st and Providence 45th. Usually, a rating in the 40s and 17 wins are good enough to get teams from a power league like the Big East an at-large bid. 
"I always take a negative viewpoint," Providence coach Pete Gillen said. "We deserve to be in because we're playing in the toughest league in America. I don't care about HPI, PRI, DDI, whatever that chemist in Duluth or Bismarck says. He can go get a beer as far as I'm concerned. We'll go in assuming the worst and hope to win one or two games. But in my heart I feel we deserve the at-large bid." 
Students, Faculty, Staff 
Don't Pass Up This 
OJIJWI"lltllity 
Fast growing telecommunications company looking for Reps in this area. Must be a motivated self­starter looking for fun and money! Enjoy working with others and being your own boss. Full or part-lime. get the rewards that efforts. Call today for information! l'tlil•huc.•l Summc.•1•s 
llc.•ghnual Uh•t•l•C m• 
679-9257 

Wednesday, March 6, 1996 



Wednesday, March 6 
at 

Free Food Night starting at 7:00 
..... 
Wednesday, March 6, 1996 
. 1996 NCAA BIG EAST ~~~ WOMEN'S BASKETBALL ·,;"i (I)Conn•Cl•cut CHAMPIONSHIP 

(1) Connecltcut 
( 1) Connecticut 
(5)Vtllanova (5)VtUanova(t 2)St John's 
11) COnnoelocu1 

{3) Notre Dome 
Championship March 5 
(2)Provulnnce 
The Ob1erver/Bnan Blank 
:#~?<(-.,:=;· 
l"'~l! lL: l t' ~l:hL:L!L!lL: tl!l h'Lt::.l ch h'J.t:.l!iL~ISb 
: .~;!;:~~::;: ·::/: . .:·=·:. -~/: ··:., ;-}~ 
Wednesday, March 6: 11 a.m. BIG EAST 1st round -ESPN2 
1:30 p.m. BIG EAST 1st r9_und -ESPN 3 p.m. Conf~rence US~v1'st round-Sports Channel 3:30p.m. aiG EAS~~·1st round -E~~N, 7 p.m. BlG EAST )St round-ESPI'J2 
7:30 p.n). lllinois,t.i's. Michigan ..St.-ESPN 8 p.m. Mlehigary'vs. O!Jio···st.-Sports Channel ~p.m. BIG EA~T1s'(round-ESPN2 
Thursday, March7; "'" '"'"""" Noon Atlantic' fO Quarterfinal-ESfl'N" Noon BIG fAST Quarterfinal -ESPN2 
1 p.m. Qonfer~nce·tJ,SA Quarterfinal -Sports Channel 
2:30 p.r)l. BIG ~AST'Quarterfinal-ESPN 
2:30 p.r;,. Atlan\c 10 Q\~rterfinal -ESPN2 5 p.m. Nprth Atl tic Cha'i'AQ,!onship-ESPN2 7 p.m. BIG EAST uarterfin~·J;SPN2 
7.p.m~ Conference Quarterfi~~.;:·?~·~[,ts Channel 
7.30 p.m. ACC 1ft_f0~_ w:. iSPN.s_,.,&.-.2~;, 
9:30 
p.m. BIG EAST Quarterfinal -ESPN 9:30p.m. Atlantic 10 Quarterfinal-ESPN2 

9:30 
p.m. Conference USA Quarterfinal -Sports Channel 


The Observer/Brian Blank 
.ATTENTION ALL CLUB PRESIDENTS!!. . 
• The registration packet deadline has been extended to Friday, March 8. 
• 
Packets MUST be complete in order to receive funding. 

• 
Absolutely NO funding requests will be considered after March 8. 


•Once packet is complete, sign up for an appointment outside the CCC office, Room 206 LaFortune. 
• Appointments will run from Monday, March 18 to Friday, March 29. 
• • • Have a great Spring Break! • • • 

page13 
Women 
continued from page16 
carried into the seeond hair when they closed the gap to 38­37 on another cluteh three­point basket from McMillen. The Irish kept the score close for the first few minutes of the half, but the Huskies gradually pulled away and built a doubl!~ digit lead. Connecticut's defen­sive pressure was too much for the Irish to handle in the final minutes of the game. 
The Irish played the game with two injured starters. Sophomore guard Mollie Peirick was playing with a bro­ken nose, and senior forward Carey Poor endured a broken pinky fingor on her shooting hand. 
Cremins leads Tech revival 
By PAUL NEWBERRY 
Associated Press 
ATLANTA 
A few months ago, it seemed as if everyone was calling for Bobby Cremins' silver-haired head. 
The game had passed him by, fans and modia said. The most popular comment around Atlanta: "I wish he would have stayed at South Carolina when he had the chance." 
"I used to let some of that criticism get inside of me," said Cremins, who accepted a job at his alma mater in 1993, only to return to Georgia Tech less than a week later. "But I no longer let it bother me." 
Now, Cremins hears nothing but kind words. He is constant­ly congratulated on No. 18 Tech winning its first outright regu­lar-season title in the Atlantie toast Conference. After missing the NCAA tournament the past two years, he knows Tech's name will be called Sunday night. 
"No question, it's a much bet­ter feeling than the last two years," he said. "It's nice to know we'll have life afterwards, no matter how we do in the ACC tournament this week­end." 
Even though the Yellow Jackets won 16 games two years ago and followed with an 18-12 mark in 1995, they didn't receive an NCAA bid either year. When Tech lost seven of its first 13 games this season, the criticism of Cremins intensi­fiod. 
"I really ·appreciate thn pen­pill who bolieved in me and believed in this program," said Cremins, whose team re­bounded to go 20-10 overall and set a school record with a 13-3 mark in the ACC. 
Cromins finally seemed to acknowledgo the need for a bench in today's high-paced game. While the Yellow Jackets still rely on three key players -Stephon Marbury and Matt Harpring are All-ACC selections and Drew Barry is a second­teamer -the improved depth is noticeable. 
Reserves Gary Saunders and Juan Gaston are both averaging double-figure minutes and Bucky Hodge has been able to step in when needed. 
-
-
page 14 The Observer • SPORTS 
-
1996 NCAA BIG EAST BASKETBALL CHAMPIONSHIP 
(2) Georgetown 
The Observer/Brian Blank 

• StUNT MARY'S SOFTBAll 
No spring break for Belles 
By LORI GADDIS 
Sports Writer 
Sand, sun, and...softball? For most students traveling to tropi­cal regions for spring break into a haven of bikinis and biceps, softball plays no part in their plans. But for the Saint Mary's College softball team, that is what Spring Break is all about. 
The Belles will head to Fort Myers, Florida this Saturday where they will open their 1996 season against St. John-Fisher. They will play nine games throughout the week and end the long stretch on Friday, May 
15. Coach Maggie Killian has high expectations for Spring Break play as well as the re­mainder of the season. 
"We set goals earlier for the Spring trip. We are excited about our new players and pleased with how they are fitting in with the rest of the team," she said. "We hope to improve on our Spring Break record last year of 5 wins and 3 losses." 
Killian stated that winning in Florida will give the team the momentum to carry through 
• SPORTS BRIEFS 
Intercollegiate Bowling: Any students interested in collegiate bowling competi­tion, please call Jason at 4­1065. 
lnterhall Sports: All off­campus women interested in playing interhall soccer please call Bridget at 273­
2284. 
into the regular season. 
Last year, the Belles finished up with a 20-16 record. After losing only 2 seniors to gradua­tion last year, the Belles look forward to strong returnees in order to improve their win-loss record. 
One of these players is senior pitcher Maria Vogel. Vogel post­ed a 2. 74 ERA and looks to improve upon an 11-8 record. Vogel was recognized as an Academic All-scholar for (he 1994-1995 season. Also re­turning for the Belles are three­year starters Michelle Limb, a 1st-team All-Hegion center field­er, Laura Richter, a 3rd-team All-Region utility player, short­stop Shannon Heise, and Amy Misch at second base. 
Killian spoke about the strength of these five seniors. "All of these seniors have as­sumed leadership roles to effec­
tively guide the team," she stat­ed. "They possess unique quali­ties that have contributed to the success of past seasons and we expect the same from them for this season." 
The Belles also look to first­year players for strength. Killian stated that the team has added a lot of speed with the new players, and Saint Mary's hopes to take advantage of that with aggressiveness on the bases. 
Senior Heise added, "I think that the strength and experience of the seniors combined with the enthusiasm and freshness of the first-year players will pay off on the field and start our season off the right way." 
The Belles will continue their season back in South Bend on Thursday, March 21 at 3:00 against Olivet College at Saint Mary's College. 
The Observer 
is now accepting applications for: 
Advertising Account Executive 
Do you need extra money or valuable marketing and sales experience? The Observer offers: 
• 
Flexible Hours around class schedules. 

• 
Excellent Income Opportunity. 

• 
Valuable Work Experience in a Fun Atmosphere. 


Freshmen and Sophomores encouraged to apply. Please contact Ellen@ 631-6900 or drop off your resume to room 314, LaFortune. 
~·------~------------~-­
Wednesday, March 6, 1996 
Big East 
continued from page 16 
conference tournament play. 
This is one area that Syracuse can look to exploit. 
"I expect them to full court press and try to get us rattled and to come apart at the seams," said MacLeod. 
The Orange put the squeeze on Notre Dame in Saturday's game, turning the tide with a surprisingly aggressive press that succeeded in quickening the tempo of the game and forcing Notre Dame into turnovers. 
Matchup problems are a fur­ther disadvantage for the Irish. Especially troubling is Syracuse point guard Lazarus Sims, who at 6-3 proved a threat in the low-post against a smaller Irish backcourt. 
"We have to get more help for Doug (Gottlieb) and Admore (White)," stated MacLeod. "(Sims) like to get down in the middle and set screens, which leaves him free for offensive rebounds." 
GARRITY HONOHED: Notre Dame sophomore forward Pat Garrity became the first Irish player to garner conference ac­colades, being named to the All-Big East third team. The selections are made by league's coaches. 
Garrity is also in contention for Academic All-America consideration. A member of the College of Sciences, Garrity was named to the Academic All-District team for the Midwest region, which qualifies him for national recognition. 
Garrity leads the Irish with 
17.1 points and 7.1 rebounds per game. 
HOOVEH'S LAST IIURHAJ-1: While the Big East tournament provides a valuable learning environment for a young Notre Dame squad that will return 11 scholarship players to the con­ference next season, it also serves as a backdrop for the close of senior captain Ryan Hoover's career. 
Hoover is firmly entrenched in the Irish record book for career three-pointers made and attempted and free throw shooting percentage. His streak of 42 consecutive free throws made is also a school record. 
A native of Roscoe, IL, Hoover has led the Irish in scoring 11 times this season, including his 24 point perfor­mance against Syracuse on Saturday. 
"Ryan's handled the situation very well," said MacLeod. "If you take his side of it, he's been the focal point of various types of defenses all year. Ryan loves Notre Dame basket­ball, and he's had a very good career here." 
:-..~ ~ • ~ .:-... ~~~ 11:~ ....:-.. ' "'· • ~ .. ~.... ~,.:-, 
BIKE SALE : 
March 7, 8, 9 &10 • The hot new '96 bikes are here. Fantastic selection· of models & colors.
BIKE£.· A 10°' 0 I
SPECIALISTS LL AT /O FF. 
211 E. Main St., Niles, Ml .(616) 683-3100 
EARN CASH by DONATING 
You could earn: 
$30°0atter your first plasma donation! 
$15°0  if you donate alone (first visit)  
+$ 5°0  if you show college I. D. (first visit)  
+$1 0°0  per person if you recruit someone and they donate  

$30°0 TOTAl! 
Help Us Save Lives Must be 18 years old; proof of current address with photo I. D. 
COME TO: HOURS: 
AMERICAN BIOMEDICAL T-F: 9-6 515 LINCOLNWAY WEST SAT: 8-5 SOUTH BEND, IN 46601-1117 234-6010 
#16 Notre Dame vs. Kansas State 
10:00 a.m. #16 Notre Dame vs. Drake 
4:00p.m. Eck Tennis Pavilion •Admission: FREE! 
-

fOUR POOD GROUPS OF THE APOCALYPSE DAVE KELLETT YOUR HOROSCOPE JEANE DIXON 
-



DILBERT 
HEY, WALLY! 8 " THE e,o:,s SENT ~ 
t======~ HIS tiR.:)T E-MAIL ; MESSAGE.! 

CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 25 --torte 55 Master Simpson 28 Throttle 56 Wampanoag
1 Pocket bread 
31 Mr. 'iggins chief who led a
5 Pulitzer-winning 
1675-76 war 
32 "Land--!"
Ferber novel 
58 Instead
34 Gulf war missile
10 At a distance 
59 Professeur's
35 Muslim general 
14 Land of the 
place
36 Wire measure
Peacock 
60 "--, vidi, vici" 
37 Fix 61 Title
Throne 
15 Novelist Louise 38 "--, With a Z" 
62 Seashore
dela Ramee 40 Turns over 
features
18 Wrist-elbow 42Emblemof 
63Top dog
connector England 17 Daughter of 43 Midwest crop Powhatan 45 Helped sail a 
DOWN
19 "Aul~ Lang boat 
47 Falcon-headed 1 Prop for Santa 20 Spellbind deity 2 Shade of gray 21 Barbecue sites 48 Pupil's place 3 Savior-faire 23 Montana native 49 Not concerned 
4 Bedlam or worse 
24 Become with ethics 
5 Oklahomans 
established 51 Quiescent 
6 Little bit 7 Dentist's request ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 8 Mrs. McKinley 9 Cigarettes, in British slang ~~::-f::'-t::'-i 10 Classic British cars 26 Prefix with 
m~m~~--~ 11 Seneca chief 
during the -plasty American 27 Oglala chief at Revolution Little Big Horn 
..,._"-+'+-'+'::'-ll!ltlll!lt-=+::-f.:-:+:::.+:'-i 12 Part of A. D . 28 Cargo planks 13 Charlotte and 29 Rainer of "The others Good Earth" 18 Fabled racer 30 Nosed (out) .:-11~:+7+.:-:-~-:t::::-t:::+,...t::-t::-i 22 --standstill 33 Service closers ~,:+,:..+:e-1 24 Engraved 39 Stopped at marker Cape Canaveral -:7+=+:=+:::.'-1 25 Elite Navy 40 Applied oakum group to 
f>.,ND YOU SAID HE WASN'T BRIGHT ENOUGH TO FIGURE 
•MENU 
Notre Dame North Grilled Turkey Sandwich Cheeseburger Pie Spinach Cheese Tortellini 
Saint Mary's Baked Ham 
Artichoke, Olive, Rice Casserole Chicken Fried Steak 
Wanted: Reporters, photographers and editors. 
41 Abrasions 50 Like a stag 42 Fidgety 51 Aware of 44 Notable time 52 Holly 460pulent 53 One climbing 48 Fireplace the walls 
Join The 
49 Still 54 "Iliad," e.g. sleeping 57 Hospital dept. 
Observer staff. 
Get answers to any three clues 
by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420­5656 (75¢ each minute). 
\how your ft.·cling.\ opcnl) 
VIR(;() (/\up 23 Sep1. :!:!1 Jomt asset~ sudJenly 1m:rc~tsc. Try 1ng to maint.<ttn a hecttc !-.OCI;tl 'chcduk could Slrelch you 1oo llrrn Take step~ to streamline your \OCial calendar. 
LIBRA (Scpl. 23-0cl 22) Someone may acl IOuchy. l'liSiponr passing judgrncn1 unl!l you know the circumstances. Wor~ing alone can be highly profitable hul wrll require self-discipline. 
SCORPIO (Oc1. 23-Nov. 21). Business demands could impinge on your home life. Your mate expects more from you, and wilh good rea­son. A minor mix·up require!-. irnrne· diate attenllon. Be patient with someone who has suffered a disap pomtmenl. 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-0cc. 21): Domeslic issues could call for a family conference. Sci reasonable ground rules for children and enforce them consis1en1ly. A secrel romance could land you in hoi water. Exercise self-discipline. Pro­lee! your privacy and rcpull!lion. 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Wind up a business deal 1ha1 has become long and drawn out. i\ friend is helpful in solving a person­al problem. Check today's mail; recenlly received infom1a1ion could have been misleading. Romance looks somewhal unsettled. 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Be candid wilh your co-workers. You need !heir inpul. Give loved ones a !real lonighl. S1cer clear of controversial subjects, especially a1 meal lime. A teen-ager is in need of an encouraging word. Be there. 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Do no! make problems for yourself. Consult experts, no! friends. Lei your panner take care of join! inler­esls. h is your tum 10 sil back and observe. The evening hours prove ideal for romance. 
South Chicken Strips Noodles Romanoff' Cajun-Baked Sole 
-
-
SCOTT ADAMS 
"I FORGOT MY 
TIME TO
WATCH. OOE5 
CHANGE
ANYBODY 


IIi\ I'I'\ IHRTIIIIA \! lr\ II IF NEXT YEAR OF \OliR LIFE: Be fulurc·oncnlcd. II you are will­ing to take a temporary backs("af at work. your g:ood "icnsc will carry you to the top Other~ arc insi!-.renr that you pay your duc3. H1dc your impatience. Travel to foreign shores could prove very lucky. Give romance a chance to mature before· making a serious commitment. Financial issues cannot be settled ovcmighl. Have a hack -up plan juS! in case. Your career goals could suddenly change. 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON TillS DAY: poe! Elizaheth !Jarrell Browning, baskelball Slar Shaquille O'Neal, direc10r Rob Reiner, con­duclor Sarah Caldwell. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): You have many good ideas. One of !hem may even resolve an ongoing disagreemenl. Puning your 1alen1s on the line will pay off handsomely. Higher-ups applaud your efforts. 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): The whirlwind pace a1 work contin­ues. Others gel !ired jus! wa1ching you. Do your homework and a job imerview will go splendidly. A memher of !he opposi1e sex makes an offer. Ask peninenl queslions. 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Cenain financial reslriclions will be relaxed soon. Welcome a unique opponunity to expand your role at place of employment. A member of !he opposite sex may have designs on your hean. Play i1 cool. 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): Teamwork plays importanl divi· dends now. Concentrale on 1op pri· ority work, postponing tasks that can wail. Rely on your research to provide valuable answers. 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Good news arrives from someone living overseas. The abilily 10 speak a sec­ond language will help you clinch a lucralive deal. Romance makes your hean smg. Go for il 1 This evening, 

- 
SPORTS  
page 16  Wednesday, March 6, 1996  



-Garden Party 
Ryan Hoover and the Irish have one last chance to get by the big boys in this weeks Big East Tournament. 
Strike three 
UConn beats Irish again despite Morgan's record-breaking night 
By TODD FITZPATRICK 
Spores Writer 
In their first ever Big East tournament final, Notre Dame experienced a much too famil­iar occurrence. For the third 
time this sea­s o n , Connecticut thwarted Notre Dame's hopes of an upset victory. Once again, Kara Wolters 

d o min a t e d Morgan 
the Irish defense to lead all scorers with 28 points. 
Number two Connecticut held No. 22 Notre Dame to just one field goal in the final twelve minutes of play en route to its 71-54 victory. The Huskies earned its third straight confer­ence championship before a sellout crowd on their home court in Storrs, Connecticut. 
Despite the disappointing loss, the Irish (22-7) are headed to the NCAA tournament after finishing second in the competi­tive Big East conference. Connecticut earned an auto­matic NCAA tournament bid with their win. The first round match-ups will take place on Friday, March 15. Notre Dame might play its first round game at the Joyce Center. 
It came as no surprise that juniors Katryna Gaither and Beth Morgan led all Irish scor­ers. Gaither finished with 14 points and Morgan poured in 12. 
Morgan's dazzling dozen earned her a place in the Irish record books. She became the all-time leading scorer in Notre Dame women's basketball his­tory with 1.594 points. Morgan surpassed the former mark of 1,590 by Karen Robinson (1989-91). 
The first eleven minutes of the game were particularly rough for the Irish as they fell behind 29-15. The talented Husky trio of Wolters, Jennifer Rizzotti, and Nykesha Sales provided an array of offensive and defensive problems for the Irish. 
The last nine minutes of the first half belonged to Notre Dame. The Irish mounted an impressive rally and narrowed the margin to four points when freshman Sheila McMillen nailed a three-pointer with less than one minute remaining. 
Notre Dame's momentum 
see WOMEN I page# 
the taste of March Madness that comes with a conference tournament. 
"Our kids are excited about this," said Notre Dame coach John MacLeod. "Last year our season was over February 28th, the year before that March 2nd. Now it's the sixth of March and we're still play­ing basketball." 
Not many predict that the Irish will be playing basketball much longer. Notre Dame en­ters the tournament as the last seed, and faces almost impos­sible odds of winning the con­ference's automatic bid to the NCAAs. 
However, following the gutty performance over the weekend at Syracuse, there is renewed hope that the Irish can pull off one of the bigger upsets in Big East tournament history. 
"Two things happened as a result of Saturday's game," explained MacLeod. "We got (Syracuse's) attention, but while our players have a healthy respect for what Syracuse can do, they're also going to feel good going in." 
One of the biggest factors the Irish will have to contend with is post-season jitters. Although Notre Dame has nothing to lose, the Irish also lack any ex­posure to the increased hype and pressure associated with 
see BIG EAST I page 14 
Baseball 
vs. Lewis-Clark Stare in Searrle, March 8 vs. Long Beach State in Seattle, March 9 
• Big East teams prepare for tourney 
Women's Tennis 
vs. Kansas State, March 9, 10:00 a.m. 
see page 12 vs. Drake , March 9, 4:00 p.m. 
• March Madness viewing schedule 
see page 13 

• Saint Mary's softball has break plans see page 14 
By TIM SEYMOUR 
Associate Sports Editor 
Today marks the last of Notre Dame's new experiences in its inaugural season in the Big East conference, yet a sense of the familiar is also present. 
The 13th-seeded Irish (9-17. 4-14) participate in their first ever Big East Tournament when they play fourth-seeded Syracuse {22-7, 12-6) at 1:00 
p.m. in an ESPN-televised game at Madison Square Garden. 
Both the court and the oppo­nent are familiar to the Irish. Notre Dame owns a 1-1 record in the Garden this season, besting St. John's and losing to Manhattan in February games. The Orangemen were the most recent Irish opponent, strug­gling to a 71-67 victory over Notre Dame on Saturday. 
What is new for the Irish is 

Sophomore forward Pat Garrity became the first Notre Dame player to earn All-Big East honors as he was named the Conference's third team this season. Garrity, who leads the Irish in scoring, will have to produce if Notre Dame is to top Sycracuse in today's match-up. 

Men's Basketball 
vs. Syracuse at Big East Tournament, Wednesday, March 6, I :00 p.m. 
Softball 
-
at South Florida Tourney, March 8-10 






