---=----------=-----=--------_------------_··-----, 

Monday, March 25, 1996 • Vol. XXVII No. 111 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
ND announces degree recipients Festivites 

Observer Staff Report 
At the 151 st Commencement exercises, the University will be conferring twelve honorary degrees on national and international figures, including principle speaker Mary Ann Glendon. Glendon, a l.earnm! lland Professor of Law at Harvard Uni­versity, will be receiving an honorary doctor of laws degree. 
The recipients were chosen from fields including llw church, education, public service, law and busi­rwss, and will be honored at the exercises along with Sisler llelen Prejean, the 1996 recipient of Notre Dame's Laetare Medal. 
The honorary degree recipients include: 
• William Blake is a chief scientist for hydroac­cousties at David Taylor Model Basin and will receive a doctor of engineering degree. A 1964 graduate of Nolrn Dame, Blake has bmm active in sonar and pro­peller mseareh for next-generation submarines and surfaee ships. He is the author of two books in the field. After receiving his bachelor's degree in chemi­cal engineering from Notre Dame, he earned a doc­torate in naval architoeture and marine engineering from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology in 
t'JoiJ. 
• 
Huben Carriedo is assistant superintendent in the San Di11go Unified School distriet and will receive a doctor of laws degre11. Carriedo has worked as a tnadwr, coach, counselor and administrator in the N11w York City and San Diego publie school syst11ms for most of the past three decades. A 1965 graduate of Notre Dame, he earned a master's degree from Nnw York University and a doetorate in education from llarvard Univnrsity. He chairs Notre Dame's llispanie alumni group and serves as a mentor to the Univnrsity's Latino students. 

• 
Sl!1plwn Carter is the William Nelson Cromwell Proft1ssor of Law at Yale University and will be receiving a doctor of laws degree. Carter is tlw au­thor of "The Culture of Disbelief: I low American Law and Polities Trivialize Heligious Devotion," the award-winning book that examines societal stereo­types of rnligious bnlief. lie is a leading scholar in constitutional law, law and religion, intelleetual 


see DEGREES I page 4 

• GRADUATE STUDENT UNION 
De Haan, Coombs win single ticket race 
By MAITI-IEW LOUGHRAN 
News Writer 
With a majority of votes in and eountml, the Graduate Stu­dent Union has a new president and vicn president. Hobert de Ilaan and Deborah Coombs wnre eleetml in a g1Jncral elee­tion on Friday. 
"Thn turnout was about ten perennt of the population, roughly one-hundred p11ople," said .Jon Manak, outgoing GSU pn~sidnnl and director of this year's eleetions. "This is pretty consistent with past GSU elec­tions. last year there were about 
120. the year before that, there were 80 or so." . 
With 70 votes in favor of de llaan and Coombs, the majority of votes came from the College of Arts and Letters. Two voters took advantage of the early vot­ing period offered by the GSU. 
"The first item on the agenda is to approve a budget for the 
see GSUI page 6 


Conference urges UN to establish tribunal 
1\y DEREK BETCHER 
New' Wtitcr 
1\thnie dnansing, war crimes, gt1noeide, and other human rights a bus11 s w iII eon tin u e across tlw gl o bn u nl11ss the Unitt~! Nations and its member stal!Js push to establish a per­nHuHmt international erime tri­bunal. 
This was the consensus after a day-long conference in the Notm Damn Law School court­room that fmttured partieipants and scholars on tiHJ eurrent temporary Yugoslavian and Hwandan war crimes trial pro­ceedings. Saturday's eonfer­enee featured three addresses and three panel discussions that analyzed and explored the current state of international human rights erimes prosecu­tion. 
Quoting Pope Paul VI, David Link, Dean of the Notre Dame Law Sehool, opened the day by saying ,"If you want peace, work for justice." Under that 
see TRIBUNAL I page 4 

By CAROLINE BLUM 
Saint Mary's Ediror 
As a legendary year gripped with abstentions, resignations, and forum explosions draws to a close at Saint Mary's, students will decide their future student class officers this week. 
Out of 125 randomly selected Saint Mary's students, 109 said that they thought future student leaders could bring change to Saint Mary's and only 16 dis­agreed. 
The point? A survey admin­istered to students in the dining hall showed that Saint Mary's is ready for a new era where ques­tions of apathy and problems with the administration are left in the past. 
In the survey, students pin­pointed relations with Notre Dame, improvements in the din­ing hall, and social activities as topics they would like to see improved by their student lead­ers in the upcoming elections. 
Other concerns were stressed about current hot issues such as the ability to smoke in the dining hall, alcohol problems on cam­pus, eating disorders, security problems, and diversity on earn­pus. 
Tuesday Saint Mary's will de­cide what individuals can best help them achieve these changes. 
see ELECTION I page 6 

Just kickin' back 


• INsmE Cm..uMN 


One of life's little lessons 

Student participation is an integral aspect of the Notre Dame community. Meeting new people and establishing friendships through different campus organizations is an essential element of col­lege life. 


Presently, planning Stacey Ward for the next school year Assistant Viewpoint has begun and there Editor 
are loads of opportuni­ties in which to become involved. Everyday there are advertisements encouraging people to apply for different roles in various organizations. 
As selections are announced for the vari­ous jobs and leadership positions, I think there are many important ideas to keep in mind. 
I was not selected to be a Resident Assistant for the 1996-1997 school year. This is not a fact that I brag about, yet when asked, I won't deny it. 
At first I was disappointed. I have always greatly admired my RAs and the significant role they maintain in the Notre Dame com­munity. I thought it was a job that I would be able to handle successfully. I was attract­ed to the challenges and joys of the position and I thought that my character was one that suited me for both the many positive and negative aspects of this role. 
When I was not selected for the position the question, "What's wrong with me?" was one that continually ran through my thoughts. My friends helped me realize that because I was not selected does not mean that I am any less of a person, or possess more character flaws, than my fellow Siegfriedites who will soon accept their job. This idea is tough to accept when faced with disappointment, but I have come to believe that I was simply not meant to be an RA next year. 
Though I was discouraged at first, my not being accepted has been the impetus to search for involvement elsewhere. I realize that there are many other areas in which I could succeed. I have had to believe in myself and my talents and skills to gain the confidence to discover my potential in other activities. 
At times it is difficult to overcome disap­pointment and is easy to wallow in self-pity, creating a barrier of bitterness to hide the hurt. Yet, dealing with the hurt and allowing others to see my sadness has allowed me to overcome the disappointment and challenge myself with new discoveries. I realize in life we will not be granted all the positions and goals to which we aspire. Yet, that should not stop us from setting goals and striving for positions and dreams. 
Congratulations to the many people who will be RAs next year; I wish you the best of luck. I also applaud the many people who applied for the position and were not select­ed. Through the process of applying our­selves to our goals we benefit by learning more about our individual strengths and weaknesses, even though we might not aGhieve our original objectives. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 

News Accent Kristi Kolski Catherine Deely Kelly Brooks Joey Crawford 
Sports Production Tim McConn Mike Norbut Todd Fitzpatrick Nathan Wills 
Graphics Lab Tech Tom Roland Mike Hungeling Observer wannabe Systems Matt Biergans Mike Brouillet Jason Huggins 

The ObseiVer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday rhrough Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
CAIRO, Egypt  manner, from the front door," Ali said.  
Two Sudanese  men  hijacked  a  The 42 passengers and seven crew  
Sudanese airliner to the neighboring  members were freed.  
country of Eritrea on Sunday, where  Sudan's Muslim fundamentalist gov­ 
they surrendered without injury to the  ernment has been fighting  a 13-year  
49 passengers and crew members.  civil  war with rebels in the country's  
Egypt's Middle East News Agency  southern region who want autonomy.  
reported that the flight was en route  The rebels are mostly Christians and  
from the Sudanese capital of Khartoum  adherents of tribal faiths, while the  
to Port Sudan when the pilot was  government in Khartoum is Muslim.  
forced to divert to the Eritrean capital,  More than 1.3 million people have  
Asmara.  died in the conflict and the famines it  
On surrendering there, the  two  •-~~~c~~~;d  brought.  
hijackers said they were  allied to  route  Eritrea is at odds with Sudan. accus­ 
Sudanese opposition parties, Saudi  _,;,Plane forced  ing the government of supporting  
Arabia's Middle East BroadcastingCenter said.  to divert herel::::=====::::I":::::.:.'l:._'====::::LAP~  Eritrean Islamic rebels. It was unclear how the hijackers  
The hijackers professed "a lot of  would be handled by Eritrean authori­ 

hatred" for the Sudanese government, the jet's captain, ties. Bashir Ali, told the Saudi network in a telephone inter­At least two Sudanese aircraft have been hijacked in view from Asmara. But they made no political demands, the past two years by Sudanese seeking refuge in Egypt. and only wanted to go to Asmara, Ali said. In one case, the hijacker made it only as far as Port 
The hijackers, one of them carrying a pistol, seized Sudan, and was sentenced to five years in prison by a control of the A720 Airbus about 25 minutes after takeoff Sudanese court. He also was sentenced to lashing for from Khartoum, Ali said. being drunk during the hijacking. 
"He was very confused ... we calmed him down," Ali In the other case, an Egyptian court sentenced a said. Sudanese hijacker to 15 years in jail after he forced an On arrival in Asmara, less than an hour after the aircraft to land in the southern Egyptian city of Luxor. hijacking began, the "hijackers left the plane in a normal 
Dole pays brief visit to Nixon Library 
, YORBA LINDA, Calif. 
Bob Dole paid a nostalgic visit to the Richard M. Nixon presidential library Sunday, saluting his one-time mentor and frequent adviser as a friend "in good times and bad" and a strong, good-hearted leader despite the scan­dal that forced him from office. Speaking at a sun-soaked gathering in the library courtyard, Dole recalled a 

memo he said Nixon sent him shortly before his death two years ago predicting Dole would win the 1996 Republican presidential nomination. "He liked to give advice and I liked to receive advice from somebody who knew what they were talking about," the certain GOP nominee said. Dole said Nixon told him, "you will make it because you have brains, heart and guts -an abun­dance of each." Dole and his wife, Elizabeth. paid a brief visit to the graves of the late president and Pat Nixon, placing a bouquet of flowers between the two black mar­ble headstones. 

Two found in New England avalanche 
MOUNT WASHINGTON, N.H. 
Searchers recovered the bodies of two people buried in an avalanche Sunday on Mount Washington, the highest peak in the Northeast. The avalanche happened in the Gulf of Slides, a popular hiking and skiing area southeast of the mountain's summit. Just last week, the Appalachian Mountain Club had warned skiers and hik­ers of the possibility of avalanches and falling ice on the 6,288-foot-high mountain. The slide happened about 
9:30 a.m., striking three people, with one person escap­ing, Fish and Game Maj. Ronald Alie said. It was not known whether the three were hiking or skiing. The bodies were found late in the afternoon, said Fish and Game Sgt. Marty Garabedian. Authorities were not imme­diately sure whether to have a medical examiner hike to the scene or have the bodies brought to the base of the mountain. The three, at an elevation of about 4,500 feet, were swept about 500 feet down the mountain by the 250-foot wide avalanche, said Appalachian Mountain Club search coordinator John Sanders. 


Amazon dwellers hooked on cocaine 
RIO DE JANEIRO, Brazil 

Medical researchers returned from an expedition to the Amazon jungle with disturbing findings: many Amazon dwellers are getting hooked on cocaine. Professor Fatima Guedes of the Fluminense Federal Medical University, who coordinated the research in 12 Indian villages and 12 All)azon basin towns, told the Jornal do Brasil newspaper that "the situation is alarm­ing." Guedes said that in villages she visited five years ago where no one even knew what cocaine was, the adults are now addicted to the drug and badly in need of help. Youngsters and adolescents are using cocaine with syringes, adding to the risk of an AIDS outbreak, she said. Guedes said the expedition found that many Amazon towns are suffering unemployment rates of up to 70 percent, which is spurring the cocaine dependence. Cocaine from the Cali cartel enters the Amazon at the Colombian border town of Leiticia. In the past, it was simply transported down the river and prepared for ex­port, but traffickers have cultivated a local trade, bring­ing entire towns under the spell of the drug. 

Reformist Mexican mayor near death 
JUAREZ, Mexico 

Mayor Francisco Villareal, who led a rebellion against the federal government's hoarding of local toll bridge revenues, is in rapidly declining health, a newspaper said Sunday. Villareal, who was diagnosed with lymph and bone cancer several months ago, is eating very little and has stopped taking painkillers, the Reforma reported. He remains alert. "There is no hope now, and the end could come from one minute to the other," Irene Blanco, a close friend of Villareal, told the newspaper. In April 1995, Villareal installed city toll booths on the bridge connecting Juarez with El Paso, Texas, with the intention of collecting money from Juarez residents for local public works projects. Traditionally in Mexico, the federal gov­ernment has collected such toll receipts and returned a portion to the states and cities. In protest last year. Villareal withheld revenues and was jailed for five days. He then went on a 32-day hunger strike, demanding that all the revenues from international toll bridges be returned to the cities where the bridges are located. 


Monday, March 25 
The AccuWeather®forecast for noon, Monday, March 25.
AccuWeather® forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 
Lines separate high temperature zones tor the day.
305 
ILL. 
COLD WARM STATIONARY 
C 1996 AccuWeather, Inc. 
Pressure 
H L 

HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STDRMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY VIS Associated Press 
Atlanta 76 46 Dallas 83 64 New Orleans 77 60 Baltimore 60 29 Denver 21 13 New York 55 34 Boston 50 30 Los Angeles 70 52 Philadelphia 55 29 Chicago 63 38 Miami 73 68 Phoenix 71 47 Columbus 69 35 Minneapolis 35 32 St. Louis 68 43 
~ .-.-.,... ., ,.:. a·..···~-..-...~...~.·...-~··•·"~··--~·~•..•o•.•.•.•.•.•.• •.•"',. • • •" • • • •"'" 

~ /). .,rf1) 6 6 a£111 ~ ~ a
,,,,'....~....~ ...... :. +.;::·.:::· -=--=--=­
Showers T-storms Rain Flurries Snow Ice Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy Via Associated Press GraphicsNet 
• BOARD OF GOVERNANCE 
Board addresses ethnic diversity 
By LESLIE FIELD 
News Wrircr 
Saint Mary's Board of Gover­nance met last night in Haggar for the present board's final mHeting of the year. 
•Ethnic 
Diversity Commis­sioner Molly Kilmer proposed that a eontribution by BOG be made to the Center for Social Concerns to support the Folk l.orieo de Chile Ballet coming to the Stepan Cnnter on April 10 at 7:30 P.M. The proposal passnd, giving six-hundred dol­lars to the esc in support of the event. 

•Club 
L.Y.F.E., (Living Your Faith Everyday), a student run 



group aiming to focus on re­treats, service, prayer and re­flection, gained official club sta­tus for the remainder of the academic year. 
•A 
donation was made by BOG in support of Christmas in April. 

•On 
Wednesday. March 27, the I Iealth Fair will take place in the Angela Athletic Center from 2 to 6 p.m. Gloria Chelminiak, the previous Health Services Director and present Wellness Center Direc­tor. is running it with several Nursing Students. Twenty-two organizations will be at the Health Fair. Self-breast exami­nation information, hearing 


Happy 21st, Roger! 
Rearh for the stars 0 what adream it will be Getting the answers to Every possible quest Roaring when you claim 
your reward 
We are very proud ofyou, 
M&D 


D 
WEEKEND RACQUETBALL 
TOURNAMENT 
SATURDAY & SUNDAY MARCH 30 & MARCH 31 JOYCE CENTER Men's & Women's Divisions T -Shirts to all Participants Bring Your Own Racquet Balls Will be Provided Refreshments Will be Served 
Register in Advance at RecSports Deadline: Thursday, March 28 $6.00 Fee 
Follow the Fighting Irish to 





Ireland 

Visit the Cork Jazz .Festival 


October 2S -November 3 October 30 -November 3 Join us for eight days in Ireland If you only have a weekend, you can 
(two weekends and a week). still enjoy the beauty of Ireland 
fcaturin~ Irish enh:rtainmcnt. 'I:J. 22,. and No~re Dame footbal~­
~1ghheemg. great pzz and "~\'~'
•. and ol course plenty ol 

Notre Dame foothall. ~ ~ , ~ Irish entertainment. 0 ~~ < 
Only ~ _,. ~ Only$2}50 from ~· • $}450 from
' Chicago* • ' Chicago* 
Olhco dq'·"'""' cuoc' "'"' av;ulahlc MATfERHORN TRAVEL------­
For complete brochure. phone 1-K00-6JK-9150 or (410) 224-2230.. 
and seeing centers, Nordic Track demonstrations and rep­resentatives from St. Joseph's Medical Center and Pro Health will be part of the Fair. Food will be provided. 
•The 
Freshman Forum will be held on Tuesday, March 26. 

•Spring 
Day on campus will be held on April14. 

•Class 
elections will be held on Tuesday from 7 a.m. to 2 


p.m. and 4:30 to 7 p.m. in the Dining Hall. There are two tickets running for the Senior and Junior class tickets and one ticket running for the Sopho­more ticket. 
Next Sunday BOG will meet with the 1996-97 commission­ers at -9 p.m. in Haggar room 306. 

'Stations' to honor Lent 
Special to The Observer 
Scientists study water treatment 
Campus Ministry will host its third annual campus-wide Sta­tions of the Cross at the Grotto on April 2, at 7 p.m. The Sta­tions of the Cross, an ancient Lenten devotion begun by pil­grims in the Holy Land, re­traces Christ's steps from Pon­tius Pilate's Praaetorium to the hill of Golgotha. 
The Stations of the Cross are traditionally celebrated on Fri­day evenings during Lent in most Catholic churches. There are a total of fourteen stations. 

Special to The Observer 
University of Notre Dame scientists have developed new methods for studying and mon­itoring the treatment of waste­waters from !!!I refineries using modern DNA tech­niques. These meth­ods are under consideration for imple­

Kulpa

mentation this year in 
refinery plants. 
A research team headed by Charles Kulpa, professor of biological sciences and direc­tor of Notre Dame's Center for Biooengineering and Pollution Control, is the first to apply molecular techniques to mixed microbial systems in order to achieve better efficiency in the degradation of pollutants, in this case in oil refinery waste­waters. One technique, poly­merase chain reaction (PCR), reveals whether a bacterium is present in evidence taken from a crime scene. A second tech­nique, reverse transciptase ­PRC, tells researchers whether the microorganism is active. 
"One advantage to studying with molecular techniques is that we can get a molecular analysis in a matter of hours, whereas a classical biological and chemical analysis can take days." Kulpa said. "We can get the results very fast." 
Kulpa's techniques may soon be applied to one particular 
Free Pregnancy Test Referrals to Support Agencies Confidential Counseling 
SOUTH BEND • EAST DOWNTOWN SOUTH BEND Ironwood Circle 417 N. St. Louis Blvd. 20041ronwood Circle, Suite I Call234..0363 273·8986 (24 hours) 
I :!1iiII!1r%\i[,]:fJ3,]~''' 3:113:;li,l&:19iijltJ 

The Observer 
is now accepting applications for: 
Saint Mary's Day Editor 
Call Caroline Blum at 284-4349 or 631-4540 for information. 
problem treating refinery wastewater, the presence of ammonia. 
Two bacteria, Nitrosomonas and Nitrobacter, are known to convert ammonia to a less problematic compound, nitrate. "Everybody gets rid of ammonia this way," says Kulpa. "it's way too expensive to use any other method. With these techniques we're trying to understand how these two bacteria function. 
"One difficulty is that these bacteria appear to be very sen­sitive to other chemicals pre­sent in the wastewater, and as a result, nitrification fails. A good example is phenol, an or­ganic chemical common in re­finery wastewater. Phenol stops the conversion of ammo­nia to nitrate. With the novel use of these molecular tech­niques, we can study the ammonia problem and develop a rapid method of monitoring it in the plants." 
Kulpa's study, now in its fourth year, is funded by Chevron Research and Tech­nology Corp. Chevron is con­sidering implementing the techniques this year in its re­fineries. 
Later this year Kulpa and his colleagues will begin a new component of this research. They will use the same molecular techniques to deter· mine if there are indigenous bacteria, capable of degrading chemical components of gaso­line, present in pristine soil environments. This research will take place at the University of Notre Dame Environmental Hesearch Center (UNDEHC), a remote 7,300-acre tract of wilderness overlapping the border be­tween Wisconsin and Michi­gan's Upper Peninsula. 
"At this time we don't know whether bacteria capable of degrading the chemical compo­nents of gasoline exist natural­ly in soils," says Kulpa. "No one has ever studied uncontaminated environments. UNDERC possesses a number of soil setting types, so we'll even be able to tell whether these bacteria exist more plen­tifully in prairie soil versus for­est soil, for example. And UNDERC presents us with an unusual opportunity: We can go up there knowing that this soil has never seen pollutants before." 
The site of early biological field studies, Notre Dame in­herited the property in 1943. One of its most appealing fea­tures is that it includes 27 pris­tine lakes and the entire watersheds of 12. It became the site of the first whole-lake experiment ever performed, now considered a classic. A paradise for biologists, the property is home to a number and variety of bogs, lakes and streams and a range of land habitats. 
The Center for Bioengineer­ing and Pollution Control was established in 1987 to coordi­nate faculty research activities in the College of Engineering and of Science that concern developing new solutions to national and international pollution control problems. The center's interdisciplinary research, involving engineers, chemists and biologists, is both basic and applied in direction. The center's goal is to develop a fundamental understanding of related technologies that can be applied to polluted sites. 
page 4 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS Monday, March 25, 1996 

Degree 
continued from page 1 
property and the legal control of science and technology. A Yale law School graduate, he was appointed to the school's faculty in 1982 and four years later became the first African­American to earn tenure. 
• 
Claire Gaudiani is the presi­dent of Connecticut college and will receive a doctor of laws de­gree. A 1966 Connecticut grad­uate, she holds master's and doctoral degrees in French liter­ature from Indiana University. Before accepting her current post in 1988, she held faculty positions at the University of Pennsylvania as well as Emory and Purdue Universities. She chairs Campus Compact, a coali­tion of some 500 college and university presidents that has played a major role in encourag­ing the new wave of student community service. 

• 
Richard Goldstone is a pros­ecutor in the UN International 


Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia and Rwanda. He will be receiving a ctoctor of laws degree. A South African jurist, Goldstone has directed the pros­ecutors office of the war crimes tribunal since July 1994. A judge of the Appellate Division of the Supreme Court of South Africa, he also has chaired a standing committee investigat­ing political violence and human rights abuses by members of political parties and South African security forces. He will step down in July as prosecutor of the war crimes tribunal. 
• 
Jon Hassler is a novelist and writer-in-residence at St. John's University in Minnesota. He taught English at high schools and colleges in Minnesota before becoming a full-time writer at age 37. His first book "Staggerford," was published seven years later and has been followed by seven more, includ­ing the recently released "Rookery Blues." He holds degrees from St. John's and the University of Notre Dakota. 

• 
John Kaneb is the chairman 


of Gulf Oil and will receive a doctor of laws degree. A mem­ber of the Notre Dame Board of Trustees since 1980, Kaneb chairs Gulf Oil and H.P. Hood Inc.. is president of the Cata­mount Companies, and is chair­man or president of other fami­ly-controlled businesses and investment entities. Most recently, Kaneb provided the funding to establish Notre Dame's new center for teaching excellence. A graduate of Har­VI).rd University, he chairs the Harvard Medical School's capi­tal campaign as well the Notre Dame Board's committee on stu­dent affairs. 
• Cardinal Edward Pironio is the president of the Pontifical Council for the Laity, and will receive a doctor of laws. A na­tive of Argentina, Pironio has directed the Vatican council that promotes and coordinates the mission of lay men and women since 1984. He was ordained a bishop in 1964 and appointed as an advisor to the Second Vatican Council. Chosen secretary-gen­eral of the Latin American Bishops Conference in 1968, he became president of the organi­zation in 1972. Pironio was made a cardinal of the church in 1976 and served as prefect of the Congregation for Religious and secular Institutes prior to his current appointment. 
• 
C.N.R. Rao is the president of the Indian Institute of Science and will receive a doctor of sci­ence degree. An internationally renowned and respected scien­tist, Rao has made multiple con­tributions to the fields of physi­cal and solid state chemistry. He earned a master's degree from Banaras Hindu University at age 19 and a doctorate five years later from Purdue University. He taught and con­ducted research at the Indian Institute of Science in Bangalore from 1959-63 and was appoint­ed director in 1984. 

• 
Katherine Schipper is the Williams Professor of Account­ing at the University of Chicago Graduate School of Business. She will receive a doctor of laws. A specialist in corporate gover­nance and securities litigation, 


Schipper is a KPMG Peat Marwick Faculty Research Scholar at Chicago and director of the university's Institute of Professional Accounting. A graduate of Dayton University, she earned her master's of busi­ness administration and doctor­al degrees from Chicago. She currently serves as president of the American Accounting Association. 
• Sir John Templeton is an investment counselor and fi­nancial analyst. He will receive a doctor of laws degree. A grad­uate of Yale University and a Rhodes Scholar at Oxford, Templeton has been one of the world's most respected and suc­cessful money managers for more than 55 years. In 1972 he created the Templeton Foundation for Progress in Re­ligion which promotes under­standing between the sciences and religion and which honors colleges and universities, in­cluding Notre Dame, that pro­vide values-based education. He was knighted by Queen Elizabeth in 1987. 


Tribunal 
continued from page 1 
simple premise, he explained, the day's speakers would share their experiences in interna­tional law prosecution to formu­late recommendations to help establish a permanent interna­tional criminal court. 
"This meeting constitutes a historical event." Link ex­plained. "This is not just a con­ference, but a dream. Here members can reflect on their work to make historical changes." 
DePaul University professor Cherif Bassiouni, Vice Chairman of the UN Ad Hoc Committee on the Establishment of an International Criminal Court and President of the Interna­tional Human Rights Law Insti­tute. opened the conference's formal proceedings. He talked primarily about historical precedents and lessons that need to be kept in mind to en­sure success in establishing a permanent tribunal. 
Citing the humanistic philoso­phers Aristotle, Augustine, and Aquinas in Western culture in addition to Mayan, Hindu, and Chinese sources, Bassiouni posited that history favors the movement to establish a perma­nent tribunal. 
"There is something that com­mends itself to our intentions," he said. "That all these sepa­rate cultures should arrive at a, common conclusion shows that the regulation of armed conflict is a long and widely sought goal," he explained. 
Bassiouni spoke of the en­couragement he felt resulting 
Raise Your Scoresl 


from the UN's February 1993 and November 1994 decisions to create ad hoc tribunals in Yugoslavia and Rwanda. He pointed out that the world is currently witnessing interna­tional efforts towards mass­crime prosecutions that haven't been seen since the aftermath of World War II. 
"Today it may seem insignifi­cant, but in historical perspec­tive we [the Yugoslavian and Rwandan tribunals] have estab­lished an important historical precedent. There is a funda­mental importance of establish­ing individual responsibility for human rights. That is the best we can hope for." 
Bassiouni, along with each of the speakers who followed him, felt that their ongoing proceed­ings would strongly discourage contempt for international law and future brazen violations. 
Quelling such optimism, how­ever. Bassiouni cited the sober­ing financial. political, and bu­reaucratic limitations his Inter­national Crime Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia (ICTY) was facing. These hardships led him to his, and the confer­ence's, key point. 
"We cannot go on constantly reinventing tribunals. We need the permanency of an institu­tion and the accompanying sta­bility in infrastructure, past ex­perience. and logistics," Bassiouni said. 
Permanency would settle questions of legitimacy and au­thority while ensuring impar­tiality for the tribunal. As clear­ly beneficial as such an estab­lishment might seem, Bassiouni noted that the idea of a perma­nent tribunal does not receive universal support. 
"A permanent court causes a great deal of anxiety. some states have skeletons in their closets. Many see the pursuit of justice as independent to the pursuit of peace rather than as an aid to the pursuit of peace," Bassiouni lamented. 
Bassiouni was followed by the first of three panels that would spend the remainder of the day addressing specific topics rang­ing from a comparison of the Yugoslavian and Rwandan courts to a study of the gender issues facing ICTY. William Fenwick and Wengi Zhu's com­ments during the first panel were indicative of the dialogue that would follow. 
"Yugoslavia and Rwanda are clearly criminal trials, but they have serious international law implications," Fenwick, a ICTY senior legal advisor and inves­tigator, remarked. His com­ments centered on recounting his experiences working to prosecute Serbian war crimi­nals. 
Despite public opinion that ICTY may have been slow to yield results, Fenwick offered that, "The Yugoslavian court has done a better job of sub­stantiating its verdicts that any 
American Ca:t:tcer Society of Notre Dame 
Presents: 
Surviving Cancer: An ND Student's Perspective 
Featuring: 
Lori Miller 
Lecture & Question-Answer Session 
To be held Tuesday, March 26TH at 7:OOPM in 123 Nieuwland Science Hall 
Call Nicole@ 634-1318 With Any Questions 
other international court I've seen." Unlike past proceedings such as the Nuremberg War Trials, Fenwick explained that the current tribunal was ensur­ing impartiality by keeping "the moral outrage factor" out of the juridical processes. 
In spite of ICTY's efforts Fenwick still felt that room for improvement exists. 
"We can expect elaboration and expansion in the doctrine of command, especially with respect to non-military leaders. 
We need to push the envelopes because the current statues are unfortunately very vague," Fenwick said, alluding to diffi­culties ICTY was experiencing prosecuting political leaders rather than military officers for war crimes. 
He urged moderation, how­ever, by cautioning, "If you want a law that imposes unob­tainable standards. it will be morally satisfying, but it won't have any substantial effect. That is, it won't save any lives." 



~R & lH)IK IflliiD 
PLUS 
2MILEWALK SATURDAY, MARCH 30,11:00 AM 
ROCKNE MEMORIAL 
T-SHIRTS TO ALL REGISTRANTS REGISTER IN ADVANCE AT RECSPORTS $5.00 IN ADVANCE $6.00 DAY OF RACE STUDENT AND STAFF DIVISIONS 
ALL PROCEEDS TO BENEFIT CIEI::RITS'I'IV1AE Jli A:PIRITL 
SPONSORED BY 
~~ 
STUDENT GOVERNMENT IS NOW ACCEPTING NOMINATIONS FOR THESE AWARDS 
IRISH CLOVER AWARD We need your nomination of a STUDENT and a member of the FACULTY or STAFF who has exhibited outstanding service to the students of the Notre Dame community. 
FRANK o·MALLEY UNDERGRADUATE TEACHING AWARD We need your nomination of an outstanding 
undergraduate TEACHER. 
PLEASE CALL 631-4555 TO SUBMIT YOUR NOMINATION FOR EITHER OF THESE AWARDS 
Budget to test Dole's leadership New hundred dollar bill 
By ALAN FRAM costly for him and congres­other shutdown, striking a deal Associated Press sional Republicans to fail. A "is like business as usual 
to thwart counterfeiters 
WASIIINGTON 

As President Clinton and Congress square off this week in p11rhaps the finale of their IIJ1Jb budget war, there will be an interesting subplot involving firebrand llouse Hepublicans and Bob Dole's White House aspirations. 
Facing a Friday deadline, administration officials and c;op leaders will try to broker a dmLI on a $160 billion bill fi­nandng dozens of ageneies for thn rest of fiscal 1996 and avoiding another l'mleral shut­down. As thny do, the measure will he a test ease of whether Dole -the party's leader in Novnmbt~r·s eh~etion -can per­suade eonl'rontational llouse Hepublieans to compromise with Clinton on some of their most heartfelt principles. 
Th11 odds arc Dole will suc­ceed because it would be too new shutdown would tarnish his reputation as an achiever, encourage support for a third­party candidate like Boss Perot, and wound efforts by COP law­makers to appear reasonable, not extremist. 
But getting there won't be easy. There remains a deep­seated reluctance among many conservative llouse Republi­cans to compromise with Clin­ton on central GOP issues like spending cuts and government regulation -even though Dole, llouse Speaker Newt Gingrich, H-Ga., and other llouse leaders want them to. 
"lie's got to run a pres­idential campaign, but he doesn't have to win my con­gressional seat," said Rep. Mark Souder, R-Ind., one of the most conservative of the 74 House GOP freshmen. Souder says that while he and other Hepublicans want to avoid an­

[!]  •  [!]  
~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  Graduation Announcements Make it easy on yourself We address, stamp, insert, and mail your announcements for you. ~ ~ Memorable Mailings 271-7773  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  
[!]  •  [!]  

• Games to 15 Points 

• Single Elimination THREE POINT & FREE THROW CONTEST • Head to Head Competition • 45 Second Shooting Period • Double Elimination 
again" -anathema to first­term Republicans who pledged to change Washington's ways. 
"Sometimes you can't please everyone," Dole told reporters last week about his quandary with House Hepublicans, adding, "It's my view and the speaker's view that we want to get some things done, and if we can't do them solely with RtJpublican votes, obviously, we'd like to have Democratic support." 
For Dole, a noisy rift with House Hepublicans over the bill could presage more than just another messy budget fight. It could signal a presidential cam­paign in which Dole has to spend time wooing core COP conservatives, diminishing his efforts to attract more moder­ate swing voters. 
But for now, this week's fight focuses on legislation that is half-a-year overdue because of conflicts between Clinton and the GOP, and among Hepublicans themselves over spending levels and provisions loosening environmental pro­tection and restricting abor­tions. 
By CARL HARTMAN 
Associated Press 
WASIIINGTON 

A new $100 bill with a big­ger, off-center picture of Benjamin Franklin and several innovations to thwart counter­feiters goes into circulation around the world Monday. 
So far, $80 billion worth has been printed, equal to about a third of all old $100 bills in use. 
"They won't be everywhere right away -it will only be a trickle at first," said Bob Moore, a Federal Heserve spokesman. Some of the new bills should start showing up in financial capitals by Monday afternoon, he said. 
The bills, expected to be widely available next month, represent the first significant change in the appearance of 
U.S. currency since 1929. He­design of other denominations is to follow. 
All orders from commercial banks for $100 bills will be filled by the new bills starting Monday, but old notes "will not be recalled or devalued," ac­cording to the Treasury. 
Packed in book-size "bricks" worth $400,000 each, the new notes are issued only to branches of the Federal He­serve system, the government's central bank. The branches pass them on to commercial banks, including three that dis­tribute abroad: Union Bank of Switzerland, Bank of America and Hepublic New York Corp. 
The new bills have the same green and black color as the old ones, but one of the new safety features is a large figure "100" in the lower right-hand corner. Color-shifting ink makes it appear green when viewed straight and black when seen from an angle. The paper also includes a watermark. 
The words "United States of America'' are printed in micro­scopic letters on Franklin's coat. 
Fine lines, hard to reproduce even by the computerized tech­nology used in state-of-the art counterfeiting, appear behind Franklin's head and above the picture of Independence IIall in Philadelphia that covers most of the reverse side. 
New players enter tobacco war 
issey Film Fes 
FINAL REMINDER films are due t o d a Y in Room 203 Morrissey 
film fest event Thursday March 28 7:30 PM Stepan Center 
general and other legal repre­sentatives of 15 states, said the official, who took part in the meeting. The official spoke on condition of anonymity. 
Maryland and Texas, which had representatives at the meeting, are exploring filing lawsuits against all the tobaceo companies, the official said. Of­ficials from those states could not immediately be reached for comment. 
At least eight other states are considering legal aetion, the of­ficial said. The meeting on Sat­urday also included states that are already involved in litiga­tion. 
"The focus of the meeting was going forward in the law­suits," the official said. But there also was discussion of a historic settlement in which The Liggett Croup recently agreed to repay five states' Medicaid bills for treatment of sick smokers, the official said. 
The state officials met on the eve of the spring meeting here of the National Association of Attorneys General. Though not on the association's agenda, the issue of tobacco litigation was expected to be a hot topic among those attending. 
The 15 states that met Satur­day agreed to create u clear­inghouse for sharing tobacco information, the offieial said. A committee was appointed to determine how this would work. 
Florida, Mississippi, Mas­sachusetts, West Virginia, Louisiana and Minnesota all have suits against the compa­nies. 
Earlier this month, all exeept Minnesota agreed to settle with Liggett, the nation's fifth­largest cigarette maker. 
By JEANNINE AVERSA 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 

Some states that had stayed out of litigation against tobacco companies are now considering taking legal action against them, a state official involved in the litigation said Sunday. 
Such a move would expand the legal war between states and tobacco companies over recouping the costs of treating smoking-related illnesses. 
That was one of the options explored at a private meeting Saturday involving attorneys 
r--------~~~~~---------, 
1 UnlimitedTanning :! 'Till Graduation : 
I fM I 
! $60 ! 
L--------"":o,;'l:iO:----------.J 
Voted: AREA'S BEST TANNING CENTER 
IRISH COUNTRY BED &BREAKFAST REGISTRY 
17ze Preferred Registry 
Stay at the 

Moose Krause House 
or other approved homes for Graduation, Football Weekends, and Special Events 
1'o TfSfTVf: 

Call (219)277-7003 • FaK (219)273·2455 
.ISRAEL 
Election

Terrorist threats stop 
continued from page 1 

Two tickets are running for senior class office: one consist­
opening of borders 
ing of Anne Korte for President, Carolyn Deppisch for Vice­Associated Press tories on Feb. 25 after the first President, Courtney McEvers for 
in a series of suicide bombings 
Secretary, and Mia Pavlik forJERUSALEM that killed 62 people, including 
Treasurer, and another com­
Israel cannot lift the closure four bombers. 

posed of Jolie Pokorny for
of the West Bank and Gaza Strip The closure keeps tens of President, Laura Lob for Vice­because it has received warn­thousands of Palestinians from President, Karyn Connolly forings that Islamic militants plan jobs in Israel and costs the im­Secretary, and Katie Ellsworthmore terror attacks, Israel radio poverished Palestinian economy for Treasurer. 
quoted Prime Minister Shimon an estimated $6 million a day. 
The Korte ticket, running onPeres as saying Sunday. Israel radio reported that 
the platform "Women on the
The report said Peres told his Palestinians will be permitted to Rise," seeks to instigate a "LifeCabinet the month-old closure cross into Israel for emergency · After Saint Mary's" program,
would remain in effect until medical treatment. And 
which will provide counselingYasser Arafat arrests all leaders Palestinians who work in Jewish 
and workshops for seniorsof the Islamic militant Hamas settlements inside the West 
preparing for graduation. 

group who are wanted by Israel. Bank were allowed to return to 
"We want to have seminars
Israel sealed Palestinian terri-their jobs on Sunday. 

that will teach seniors how to Year Award in Oregon and has handle life after college," been invited to read at the Deppisch said. "We've heard a
Heritage 
White House in the past. lot of complaints from graduates "He [lnadal will give a talk the Saint Mary's doesn't prepare
continued from page 1 
based around our theme and students as well as they should on "Putting the War Behind will talk about the Asian for the outside world. We want Us." The lecture will be held American identity," said to change that." in the Hayes-Healy auditorium Adaniya. The program would also in­at 7:30p.m. "He was one of the first clude a Business Etiquette 
A lecture by Lawson lnada, Asian-Americans to write Workshop, and a liaison to ca­a professor from Oregon, will about Asian-American issues, reer and counseling. be the main event of the week and will be a good example for If elected, the Korte ticket and takes place Wednesday Asian-Americans on campus. would also create a project for a night at 7 p.m. in room 141, He is very well respected and Class Memory Book. The book DeBartolo. will help us provide an exam­would be like a scrap book, with 
Inada won the Poet of the ple for the whole student every page devoted to a different body." senior. The ticket also wants to hold a Vespers Service in the
recommendations do not slip 
spring, where every woman
through the cracks," the state­
GSU 
would light a candle and reflectment reads. 
on the meaningful aspects of
"The previous three presi­
continued from page 1 
their life. 

dents, Rita, Ed, and Joe have 
"We would like to focus notcoming year," said de Haan, done a great job starting things. 
only on uniting the class for our"After that I believe a large area The main thrust of my job is final year," Deppisch explained, for concern is that of housing." going to be to follow in their "but for preparing each womanIn a pre-prepared platform footsteps, doing the day-to-day for the rest of their life." 
statement, de Haan and Coombs grind to keep their programs ·The Pokorny ticket is runningestablished their commitment to going," said de Haan. 
on the platform "251 Reasons toimproving student housing, As of the time that this article Vote for Us," which are the 251
went to press, only the Engi­
both at Married Student 
names of the junior class mem­Housing and at Fischer-O'Hara­neering schools votes had not bers. The ticket will focus onGrace Residence. "Things have been counted, but are not ex­making their senior year memo­gotten a lot better, but I still pected to exceed 30 in number. 
rable if elected. 

think that a lot of people are De Haan and Coombs will pre­"We want to bring our classunhappy [with the residences], side over their first Graduate 
together as a whole unit,"
and we want to give them a Student Council on Tuesday, 
Pokorny said. "We want to
forum in which they can voice April 2, after taking office on leave our class with fond mem­their concerns," said de Haan. Aprill. 
Another concern that de Haan and Coombs plan to address in the coming year is the problem of student health care. 
"Right now the cost is good for us, but there are problems with what is not covered, catas­
trophic care, women's health issues, and children of stu­dents," said Coombs. 
In their platform, de Haan and Coombs note the Graduate School ad hoc Committee report which recommends improve­ments in the graduate health care program. 
March 29, 30 ot Bpm; March 31 of 2:30pm
"We need to follow up careful­

Little Theatre For ticket information coli
ly to track the progress of improvements to our health 
219/284-4626 Mon.-Fri., 9om-5pm care plan and ensure that these 
ories, all of our ideas focus on that." 
The Pokorny ticket wants to organize a ski trip with Wabash College, have a charity week devoted to raising money and sponsoring events in coopera­tion with various organizations, and have a "Getaway with the Girls." 
"They're aren't many chances at Saint Mary's to get together one-on-one," Pokorny said. "We think that if we get away from Saint Mary's we can get that one-on-one time and know each other better." 
According to Pokorny, her ticket incorporates the depend­ability and commitment of the years gone by and the fresh new ideas that will help make Saint Mary's more exciting for every­one. 
Two tickets are running for junior class board. Shannon Crunk (President) is running with Meg Couturier (Vice-Pres­ident). Meghan Theard (Secretary), and Alice Caruso (Treasurer). The ticket hopes to sponsor a class service project, post minutes and biweekly newsletters in order to further inform the junior class, design a junior class T -shirt, and aim to make Junior Mom's Weekend more exciting and less ex­pensive. 
"Our platform tries to incor­porate all the different aspects of Saint Mary's," explained Crunk. "The spiritual in an overnight retreat, the social in a junior class trip and talent show, and communication is posting minutes." 
Crunk wants to focus on Saint Mary's as a whole, and concen­trate on getting to know each other as classmates. 
"We have a really good atti­tude and want to bring a lot of enthusiasm to the junior class," Crunk said. "We are open to a broad range of input." 
The Meghan McNally (President), Emily Broussard (Vice-President), Anne Geisler (Secretary), and Anne Parente (Treasurer) ticket is running on the platform "We'll Work Hard .. To Play Hard, For You." The ticket will work to improve se­nior housing, develop a buddy program with freshmen, and hold a retreat with the Notre Dame junior class. 
"We tried to look at what we can change for the benefit of the class," Geisler said. "This year they started a petition to adapt a different system for senior hous­ing. It didn't go anywhere, but we think if we start something at the Student Government level, it would be more effective. We also think that a retreat with Notre Dame might be more ben­eficial than the typical forums. They can provide a more infor­mal setting for relations." 
Only one ticket is running for sophomore class, Katie Webby (President), Tysus Jackson (Vice-President), Nicole Kraimer (Secretary). and Melissa Kill (Treasurer). All four students currently head the freshman board, and want to carry over the knowledge that they have learned this year to next year. 
"We've accomplished and learned a great deal this year," Webby said. "We want to come in next year and pick up where we left off. We are prepared." 
The Webby ticket wants to instigate more class events, and bring their class together with the sophomore class at Notre Dame, through a cookout or bonfire. 
Webby explained her ticket's experience in working with the Habitat for Humanity this year, which they would like to expand into a full-fledged project that the class will work on until their graduation. By that time, Webby hopes to have an entire house built for the charity. 

"t y I e 

~ 

The Best DJ Sho-w in Chicago direct from the world-famous Excalibur Nightclub! Insane DJ'S combine -wild musical routines, comedy & gre t da ce t es! 
ln'UDENT VNION BOAllD 



The Observer/Dave Murphy 

John Gavula and Jen Sushinsky performed "The Actor's Nightmare" Sunday night in LaFortune Ballroom. This was one of four one-act plays performed at The Sophomore Four. 
GOP debates abortion issue 
FDA approvals bring hope to AIDS patients 
By LAURAN NEERGAARD 
Associated Pross 
WASHINGTON 

Fifteen years into the AIDS epidemic, patients finally have the promise of not curing but controlling the d1ladly virus ­thanks to a sudden influx of IWW drugs unlike that ever marshalled against any other disease. 
"It's such an extraordinary time of both discovery and hope," said Gordon Nary, exec­utive director of the Inter­national Assoeiation of Physi­cians in AIDS Care. 
"For many people today with IllY disease. there is a very good possibility ... it'll be a chronic disease" instead of a quick killer. 
Tlwsll new drugs, called pro­tlmsll inhibitors, don't cure the IllY virus that causes AIDS. But they attack it very differently than all other medicines -and the two newest ones can almost eliminate virus lurking in patients' blood. 
The new drugs give patients unprecedented choices in bat­tling IllY. More importantly, combining them with older medicines deals the virus a one-two punch that doctors hope -although they haven't proved it yet -will suppress IllY enough that patients live with AIDS for decades, just as they control other chronic dis­easlls. 
The headlines started in December when the Food and Drug Administration approved lloiTman LaHoche's saquinavir, the first but weak protease inhibitor, in a record 97 days. 
Happy 21st You're too Birthday, 
Jenl 
That record quickly fell. On March 1, the FDA approved Abbott Laboratories' more powerful ritonavir in 72 days. Two weeks later, indinavir got thll nod just 42 days after man­ufacturer Merck & Co. filed an FDA application. 
Protease inhibitors weren't the only good news. Patients also got a new eye implant to prevllnt AIDS-related blindness, the FDA passed a better method to screen blood dona­tions for IllY, and the first oral HIY test is expected in months. 
AIDS patients until now had live choiees: AZT, ddi, ddC, d4T and 3TC. All worked the same way, targeting an enzyme called reverse transcriptase that is important for HIY to re­produce. But the drugs helped only modestly, and HIY quickly mutates to resist them. 
So scientists specially designed drugs to target a sec­ond enzyme, protease, that is vital to another key step in IllY's reproduction. When com­bined with older medicines, the two most powerful protease inhibitors can cause the amount of IllY floating in many patients' blood to plummet by up to 98 percent. 
IllY still lurks elsewhere in the body, so the drugs are not a cure. 
Still, the idea is that keeping patients' lilY blood levels low for years would postpone AIDS symptoms. To do that, three­drug cocktails of either riton­avir or indinavir plus two older medicines became the most recommended AIDS therapy this month. 
Man in tights 


By CALVIN WOODWARD 
Associated Press 
ISELIN, N.J. 

If the Republicans maintain their hard line on abortion, they will risk losing Michele Jabin's vote. If they don't, they will risk losing Dave Plemmons' vigor. 
Such is the dilemma of Re­publican presidential cam­paigns. The party is usually clever at mending its rifts, but abortion can make the Big Tent rumble and shake. 
The issue waits in the wings for several stages of the cam­paign -as Sen. Bob Dole chooses a running mate, the party platform is drawn up and Pat Buchanan's role at the Au­gust national convention is weighed. 
Most Republican voters ap­
1 pear not to share the party's uncompromising anti -abortion stand as expressed in its plat­forms for 20 years. In surveys of GOP primary voters this season, sentiment 
' 
1es 

has run 54-40 against a consti­tutional abortion ban in the platform. Polled majorities in 25 of 29 states have rejected the idea, although sometimes narrowly. 
"I don't think women can take a step backwards," asserts Jabin, mother of two teenage daughters and a New Jersey Republican who differs little with her party except on abor­tion. "It's a very strong issue with me." 
So it is, from the other side, with Plemmons, a local Right to Life leader in Springfield, Mo., who exemplifies the enthusi­asm and organization anti­abortion activists bring to the party. 
Moving too far to appeal to the majority who do not see abortion as a commanding con­cern would alienate the size­able minority for whom there is little or nothing more impor­tant. 
"What Bob Dole has to decide is whether Bob Dole wants the energy {and) our spirit, or lack­
luster card-punching," Plemmons said. 
"He cannot afford to take for granted those people who have delivered for the Republican party ever since Reagan took on the social conservative man­tle." 
When citizens attending a po­litical focus group in New Jer­sey considered abortion, they were confused about Dole. "He's pro-choice," ventured one. "I thought he was against," began another. 
Some politicians might envy Dole that ambiguity, for the na­tion itself is nuanced on abor­tion. 
But forces will work to frame him as for or against: On Mon­day, an abortion-rights group plans a news conference to try to paint him as an anti-abortion absolutist. 
Dole's voting record is solidly against abortion rights on ques­tions specific to the procedure. But he supported two Supreme Court justices opposed by the anti-abortion movement and has rarely placed the issue at the top of the Senate agenda. 
Dole has said he would not disqualify a running mate solely on the basis of his or her abor­tion views. 
Although he's flubbed the question several times, he fa­vors a constitutional ban with exceptions for rape, incest and the life of the mother -excep­tions not specified in the 1992 GOP platform. 
The early betting is he won't try to change the platform lan­guage. 
"I think it's almost certain at this point that Dole will keep the platform plank as it was," said Norm Ornstein of the American Enterprise Institute. 
That might "keep the issue from becoming either a symbol of division in the Hepublican party or a symbol of extrem­ism." 
That assumes Buchanan is denied the chance or is talked out of the inclination to rattle' the meeting with his strict anti­abortion views. And that Hepublicans who favor abortion rights have no more success than usual in stripping the plank. 
---------------------·----~--­
VIEWPOINT 
page 8 Monday, March 25, 1996 
THE OBSERVER 
NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 
SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1996-97 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief 
· Elizabeth Foran 
Managing Editors Business Manager 
Patricia Carson Matt Casey 

Tom Roland News Editor ........................ Brad Prendergast Advertising Manager ............................ Ellen Ryan Viewpoint Editor .................. Meaghan Smith Ad Design Manager ............................... Jed Peters 
Sports Editor ..................... Timothy Sherman Production Manager ....................... Tara Grieshop Accent Editor ........................... Joey Crawford Systems Manager ............................ Sean Gallavan Saint Mary's Editor ................. Caroline Blum Controller .......................................... Tyler Weber Photo Editor .......................... Michael Ruma 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administra­tion ofeither instimrion. The news is reponed as accurarely and objectively as possible. Unsigned edi­torials represent rhe opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, leuers and Inside Columns present the views of the authors. and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's com­munity and w all readers. The free expression ofvarying opinions rhrough leners is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 

Editor~in~Chief 631-4542 Business Office 631-5313 Managing Editor/Viewpoint 631-4541 Advertising 631-6900/8840 Spotts 631-4543 Systems/Marketing Dept. 631-8839 News/Photo 631-5323 Office Manager 631-7471 Accent/Saint Mary's 631-4540 !'ax 631-6927 Day Editor/Production 631-5303 Viewpoint E-Mail Viewpoint.! @nd.edu General information 631-7471 Ad E-Mail observer@darwin.cc.nd.edu 

• WINTER Of MY DISCONTENT 
Pro sports continue their losing streak 
Players turned gypsies lose hometown support 
O
n Saturdays the New York Times publishes its skimpy but inevitably well written sports pages on the back of the business section. I have always found this confusing; putting sports in with the "living Arts" on weekdays already seemed like something of a stretch, so combining it with business struck me as downright ridiculous. However, recent developments in pro­fessional sports not only have made this 

Christopher Kratovil 
bizarre journalistic combination seem reasonable, but have made it difficult to distinguish where the "Business Day" ends and the "Sports Pages" begin. But given the frequency with which fran­chises now hop from city to city, perhaps the Times should consider dumping the sports news in with its Sunday "Travel" section. 
It is a sad reality that modern pro sports have become a mercenary and transient affair. This charge can be applied equally to both players and own­ers. The former show no loyalty to their teams and the latter flaunt their obliga­tions to both their fans and their cities. Even a cursory examination of the head­lines coming out of the world of sports reveals an industry that is beginning to 
T
spin out of control. Insofar as pro sports are a well established and worthwhile aspect of our society, contributing to civic pride and providing both a direct and indirect economic boost to the host cities, it is important that the current downward trend be reversed. he basis of any successful sports league is to establish stable franchis­es which proceed to form emotional and economic bonds with their cities and fans. This sense of mutual loyalty between team and fans is established over time and requires both a dose of on-the-field success and failure. Having made a commitment to a city, a sports team becomes an integral part of the municipal community by giving the pop­ulation a common rallying point, helping the area boost its national visibility and providing certain economic opportuni­ties. In return for these benefits, the city provides the team with both a fan market to draw upon and infrastructure. Thus a sort of mutually beneficial sym­biotic relationship develops over the years between a city and its pro-sports teams, eventually transcending the mere economic and becoming emotional. 
Today, however, this partnership between cities and franchises is break­ing down. We see this most clearly illus­trated in the NFL, where no fewer than 8 teams have either moved within the last year or are considering moving in the immediate future. Some sort of flow chart is almost necessary to keep track of the traveling circus that the National Football League has degenerated into. To briefly refresh your memory: before last season the former Los Angeles Rams pulled up stakes and landed in St. Louis even as their ex-crosstown rivals 
O
the Raiders decided that they would like to have "Oakland" in front of their name again; the Houston Oilers decided that the grass was greener in Nashville; the Seattle Seahawks, citing their deep con­cern for public safety in that an earth­quake was to rock the non-earthquake proof Kingdome during a game, sadly announced that they would have to snatch up the vast and recently vacated LA market; meanwhile the franchises in Arizona, Tampa Bay and Cincinnati were all talking about joining the mad­ness and moving themselves. f course I left the most absurd and disturbing example of franchise movement out of the above litany, namely the bizarre case of the Cleveland Browns. The Browns, among the oldest and best loved franchises in the league, had consistently filled their stadium with rabid fans. It therefore came as some­thing of a shock when Art Modell announced that the team would be mov­ing to Baltimore, Maryland-a city small­er than Cleveland, a mere 50 miles from the existing NFL franchise in Washington and which had lost its own team to Indianapolis over a decade ear­lier. In other words the Browns were more than happy to abandon their home of some 75 years and one of the best fan bases in football in favor of a new stadi­um and a few economic concessions from Maryland. Granted, this is an oversimplification of the situation, but I think that it is illustrative of the problem I am trying to get at; the death of loyalty in a business endeavor that is almost entirely based on the creation of loyalty between fan and team. 
How can the NFL seriously expect fans to continue to attend games where tick­ets alone cost between $25 and $50 when there is no guarantee that the team that you are supporting with your money will even be in town in a season or two? How can owners who move their franchises seriously believe that fans in their new town will ever be able to give their hearts entirely to the team 
•  DOONESBURY  GARRY TRUDEAU  
ITJ(JAS, BYAU­ACCOUN75, ON& OF 7He 7DUGHe5T /,I)£ZK'3 IN 7He HIS­7DR.Y OF 7H/3. 70­BAC£0 8115/N££6..,  L.166W:S IJeC/5/0N 7D 5/3.-n-te A HIX£ aASS­ACTlONLA/A/SUITHAS SeNT 5HOCI<IAIAV/3.S 7HROUGHOUT lH/3. eN­711?/3. /NPUSTRY/ /  ,:: /!JIG 708ACOJ 15 NOW \ 8R.U1!3131?, BLOO/?Y, ON 7He ROPeS/ NHAT':i ITS N/3.XTMOVe?' a/HeR& !XU317 GO FROM H&RE?  

T
which has shown itself to be blatantly mercenary? By allowing its franchises to transform themselves from bastions of civic pride into wandering gypsy cara­vans willing to play wherever the deal is sweetest, the NFL must realize that it is signing its own death warrant. Without the goodwill of the fans, no sports team or league can long endure, and in allow­ing people such as AI Davis and Art Modell to alienate entire cities the NFL is fast exhausting its supply of this pre­cious commodity. hose who point out that sports are in fact a business are quite correct; owners have a right to try and turn a profit off their teams. However, all four professional sports are de facto monopo­lies within their given game and individ­ual franchises have exclusive domain over their city's market. This unique quasi-monopolistic arrangement should make it possible for any reasonably wee-managed team to survive in any given major city. Admittedly, it is prob­ably always possible to make more money-at least for the short term-in another untapped market, but to do so is to violate the very fan trust that makes sports a viable business. 
In singling out the NFL for special crit­icism I am not ignoring the fact that baseball, hockey and basketball have their own fundamental problems. Rather, I am simply trying to point out that the NFL has tacitly consented to the transformation of its franchises from proud civic institutions into traveling extortionists, experts at breaking fans hearts and blackmailing local govern­ments. If it continues to blatantly defile the bonds of fan-team loyalty that lie at the very foundation of pro sports, the NFL will cease to be a focus of national attention and become a less-than-funny running joke. 
Christopher Kratovil's column appears every other Monday. 
• QUOTE OF TH£ DAY 
"serious sport has nothing 
to do with fair play. It is bound up with hatred, jeal­ousy, boastfulness, disregard of all rules and sadistic plea­sure in witnessing violence: in other words, it is war minus the shooting." 
-George Orwell 



;At the Osca~s

Monday, March 25, 1996 
page 9 

• AT THE MOVIES WITH FATMAN AND DADDY 
'Leaving Las Vegas': Drunken Love 
Nicolas Cage stars as an alcoholic who can be saved by no one, including Elisabeth Shue, in the dark drama 'Leaving Las Vegas.' 
• 'II ­
kilts, guys, and videotape 
"Leaving Las Vegas" 
***
(out nf fnur) 

Directed by Mike Higgis Starring Nicolas Cage and Elisabeth Shue 
.'·iyrwpsis: After fusing his job, Nicolas Cage sells and destroys all ofhis posses­sions and heads to Las Vegas. His plan is to drink himself to death while enjoy­ill!! the Tliceties of the seedy city of ill repute. After a couple of days, he hap­lessly falls in love with a sensitive pros­titute (Elisabeth Slwe). They begifl a codependtmt love affair that is doomed by their individual lifestyles and des­tiflies. 
Fatmun: 
The Fatman enjoys a snitch of Scotch with his sirloin. lie likes a tasty dark beer with his hamburgllrs and a glass of red wiml always hits the spot with pasta. But Nicolas Cage likes his booze without food. lie likes his booze without any­thing. Like Mickey Mantle in the third inning of a World Series game, Cage stumbles around Las Vegas watching his life pass away as he drinks himself to death. 
Undoubtmlly. "Leaving Las Vegas" is a sad movie. Evtlryorw already knows that if thny pay any attention whatsoev­er to tlw movie world. What makes the film so tragic is its hoplllessness. Cage plays the stereotyped role of the alienat­ed man with nothing lnft to give his life any sort of direction or meaning. Hxistenee for him has become a desulto­ry series of events that bear no relation to him as a person. Numbed by prodi­gious amounts of aleohol, he passively observes his existenctl slipping away. 
The romance between Shue and Cage brings further weight to the despair of the film. Mnaning, in the form of rna! lovn, gives Cage the opportunity for rednmption. lie can escape his death wish if lw aceepts himself as a human lwing. as somtlthng more than a passive obsPrver on his lifn, and acts on his feel­ings. But he ehooses-or maybe the akohol chooses for him-to remain a non-pl'rson and in doing so loses his life. 
By not acknowledging the hope that Shue brings, he forfeits himself. 
The film is stylistically well done, with interesting editing and camera work. Some of it resembles bad Oliver Stone, but other parts of it work quite well. What makes "Leaving Las Vegas" a good movie is not the much-lauded tech­nical aspects. It is one of the few recent dramas with a story that is both believ­able and deeply moving. It refuses to embrace the cliches that could so easily spoil a !ilm of this sort. Shue and Cage play sincere characters that have depth and sco . I recommend seeing this right. As much as it pains me to depart from the infrequently infallible logic of my corpulent colleague, I must contend that the sequence of events in this nick was about as plausible as the lovely Patty O'Hara's solution to the GLND/SMC controversy. My first supporting asser­tion is the appea.rance of the lovely con­cubine herself. Stunning prostitutes with hearts of gold? Not likely. Disease-rid­den prostitutes with nagging heroin problems who have become desensitized to the concept of human emotion itself? Far more likely indeed. If street harlots actually looked as good as Elisabeth 
movie and, remember, it is not original (nor really very funny) to bring alcohol along. This seems to be something of a trend for this lilm, and I think it is really quite an ignorant thing to do. It would be like me showing up at Jesus' house on _sun?ay.. with my copy of "The Origin of Speews. 
Daddy: Yeah, this movie was believable all 
Shue does, we would not have to worry about Hugh Grant's annoying little face popping up again for nine years, let alone nine months. 
Rather than turn this column into a pedantic search for minor, yet obscenely glaring, plot inadequacies, allow me to bestow laudations upon its inherent attributes. Czar Nicholas once again proves to the sentient populace of the World that he is, in fact, Lord of the Thespian's Manor; and always the man of my house as well. Deftly displaying his incredible range, Cage fills the movie with his haunting and, in this particular case, disgusting presence. I found myself gagging and puking blood with Nicky, not because I was drunk, but because he did such a phenomenal job of showing me what a completely repulsive charac­ter he portrayed. 
Ahh yes, a film whose central con­cept deals with a pathetic loser who desires to drink himself to death. A nar­rative idea that makes Daddy cringe at its mere utterance; and one that leaves me about as excited as a month-old corpse to go and see on the big screen. What a refreshingly nascent kernel of an idea it is. Unfortunately for the produc­ers of "Leaving Las Vegas," it is also a notion that people can lind acted out in much more realistic and vivid detail any weekend at the Linebacker. A bit of advice to any fledgling I'm-a-gonna­drink-myself-to-death stooges out there: come on over to Daddy's house and let him shoot you in the face. It is quicker, cheaper, and most importantly, it is less repugnant! 
Far be it from Daddy to pick your heroes, heroines, or role models, but I think it is somewhat ludicrous (and missing the point of the movie) for peo­ple to ido)ize Cage's character in the fashion they have been. There is nothing powerful or admirable about fatal cra­pulence; and, in my opinion, contrary to the popular societal beliefs hoisted upon youngsters by the Miller and Budweiser advertising moguls, there really is not anything too admirable about drunk people themselves. Face it: you smell bad, you pee on yourself. and you mate with anything that is physiologically capable of receiving your inebriated advances (fun. huh?!?) Next time you lind yourself hiking that bottle to your bloated lips, try reading a book or, bet­ter yet, finding out why you have to intoxicate yourself in order for others (and, more importantly, yourseiD to enjoy your company. 
Patman and Daddy are John Zach and Scott Bozik. 
"Braveheart" Dirm:ted by Mel Gibson Starring Mel Gibson 
***
(out of four) 

By MARK TORMA 
Accent Movie Critic 
Every so often a movie transcends its physical limi­tations and is just as enjoyable on the small screen. In my opinion, that's the mark of a truly line movie­it sparks the imagination in so many ways that the viewer simply Cltn't help but have a good time. "Lawrnnee of Arabia," "Schindler's List," and "The Godfather" are several classic examples, and I believe I've just found another-"Braveheart." I don't daim that it will, or should, win Best Picture, as tlw other thren did, but I will say this-Mel Gibson should be very proud. 
Yes, even on a TV in the middle of a dorm room, this tale of Scottish freedom lighters comes to life with bombast and vigor. For the uninformed, this Mel (;ibson creation (he directs and stars) came out last April, but it has been recently resurrected in tlwatnrs to take full advantage of its Oscar hype. Now also on video, it's the tale of the Scottish hero William Wallace, whose favorite word seems to have be1~n "Freedom!". Around the year 1300, Wallace inspirnd the Scots to beat back the thrust of English oppression and gain their independence. lie also gave Mel Gibson the material to make one of his most deeply felt movies since the early 80's, when he starred in Peter Weir's "Gallipoli" and "The Year of Living Dangerously." Now a huge Hollywood com­modity, Gibson has taken the delicate touch that he learned from Weir and combined it with some good, old-fashioned epic-style action. This defines his cur­rent directing style, and I think it works­"Braveheart" is quite a ride. 
One of Gibson's most stunning visual effects is his over-the-top display of battlefield killing, gouging, and maiming. Every one of the battle scenes rides the line line between brilliant pageantry and graphic gorefest-I'm not sure that the average moviegoer would be rriore inspired than disgusted with the massive bloodletting that goes on. Nevertheless, bat­tle's cruelty and insanity becomes all too apparent very quickly, so I suppose the graphic violence serves some purpose. More effective, though, were the flights of hundreds of English arrows floating silently and ominously towards our Scottish heroes; never before have I seen such an honest portrayal of impending death, and the knowing hopelessness of the Scottish troops was depressing. 
Still, for all the dark and bloody events on the field of battle, the perseverance of the Scots is what stayed with me. I sensed some real passion underly­ing much of the movie, as if Gibson had the entire cast believing in the cause they "fought" for. He him­self seemed like he wanted to be William Wallace, and wanted to have had some hand in the events that he recreates. The struggle starts as the Scottish people seek to regain the honor of their wives and the sanctity of their lineages (English lords have reserved the right by law to violate every Scottish bride on her wedding night). but Gibson allows for the true drama of history: the people's desperation is transformed into a noble drive for freedom against incredibly sinister forces. King Edward Longshanks is excruciatingly evil, and the Scottish nobles are equally devious. Even the legendary Robert the Bruce, future king of Scotland and sympathizer with the commoners, is bullied and manipulated by his father, a leprous nobleman even more wretched in spirit than he is in flesh. 
I respect Gibson for generally not bowing to cine­matic artifice, even as his character is grief-stricken at the murder of his wife. All sentimentality is respectful, not maudlin, and the only less-than-sin­cere moment was the liaison between Wallace and the Princess of Wales; it was unnecessary and some­what detracted from the very real gravity of the story. The film overcomes this single flaw in a heart­beat, though, and finishes strong. The capture of William Wallace is a fearful thing, but Gibson suc­cessfully exudes dignity while still preserving the intense fear of his final ordeal. 
Now a favorite of many, I can say that "Braveheart" certainly deserves this favor -it is quality escapism, a kind of dignified "Robin Hood: Prince of Thieves," yet also a grand epic in grand style. This isn't Mel Gibson's first foray into directing (see "The Man Without a Face" for that), but "Braveheart" certainly should not be his last. If you can stand gore, then make sure to see it. If you can't, there's another Australian star out there for you­his name is "Babe." I hear he's at least as cute as Mel Gibson. 
·--__ .. ---. ·------------·· 



A CRITIC'S GUIDE TO THE A 

By MARK TORMA 
Accem Movie Critic 
T
he Oscars this year will be quite out of the ordinary: the Best Picture winner will not win Best Director or any of the acting categories, and no film will win more than two of the non­
technical awards-no sweeps this year, folks. With those predictions, maybe I'm crazy, but hey, it's 1996, the year 

when Ron Howard and Ang Lee, directors of the two front runners for Best Picture, weren't even nominat­ed (that NEVER hap­pens). and when only six (count 'em, SIX) of the twenty-five , nominees in the \ acting and direct­
\ing cate­·. gories ha~e /.. , any prev~­
1. ous nomi­

nations. All this makes for a highly unpre­dictable Oscar field, full of Oscar rookies, oddities, and unknown commodities. How does a guy even start to figure out this mess? Well, crazy me, I'm going to give it a shot. 
BEST SUPPORTING ACTOR: it all comes down to the Hollywood pedi­gree of Ed Harris vs. the phe­nomenal year that Kevin Spacey had in 1995. Harris has been on the scene for quite some time-he garnered his first nomination for "The -but Spacey's star rose dramatically after appear­ances in several movies last year. His acclaim 
for "Seven" alone could have earned him a nomination; add his nominated turn in "The Usual Suspects" to that, and we have a winner. Look for Spacey's name up in lights. Slighted in this group were Don 
Cheadle ("Devil in a Blue 
Dress"), who split all other critical awards with Spacey, and subtle Alan Rickman in 
"Sense and Sensibility"-he showed more range than even Brad Pitt. 
BEST SUPPORTING ACTR E S S : the five best choices were probably nominated this year, so there should be no controversy. It's.a three-way race: Mira Sorvino, Joan Allen, and Kate Winslet have all gotten the respect as well as the much needed publicity to take home the statuette. Based on this, I have to give the edge to Sorvino (not even considering that her father is Hollywood nobility); she has the acclaim, the talent, and enough arti­cles to saturate a voter's wits. Only if the press has overdone it (if I s another article on the success 
prostitute roles at Oscar time, I'll spit). will Allen win, and she would deserve it. Winslet can wait for another year; if she chooses the right projects, she can look forward to Oscar 
accolades sooner than later. 
BEST ACTOR: this is a no-brainer. ..it really is. Nicolas Cage will win, and that's all there is to it. He has swept the major critics awards and received undy­ing praise for his fatal drunken­ness (it's almost as much an Oscar tradition as prostitu­tion) in "Leaving Las Vegas." The other candidates may be deserving, but no one's going to stop Cage from giving that speech. One notable omis­sion was probably Jonathan Pryce for "Carrington"; he probably cou d have taken the spot of Massimo Troisi, whose post-mortem recogni­tion is more of a tribute than a serious nomi­
nation this year. 
BEST ACTRESS: susan Sarandun will win with her combination of a highly regarded performance, a line reputa­tion in Hollywood, and a long history of wait­ing for Oscar. This is her fifth nomination­this year, only fellow nominee Meryl Streep has had more, and she has won twice 
already. Ditto for Emma Thompson, who should take it away for Best Adapted Screenplay anyway, and can afford to let 
someone else shine for a while. The others, Shue and Stone, pale in the light of the vet­eran Sarandon. who's come a long way from "The Rocky Horror Picture Show." Making it easy for her is the inexplicable omission of Jennifer Jason Leigh in "Georgia," and of Nicole Kidman in "To Die For,'' who was at least as good as Thompson's Elinor Dashwood. albeit in a very different role. 
BEST DIRECTOR: not at all an easy choice, but in the absence of Lee 
and Howard, (who, by virtue of his recog­nition by the Director's Guild, would have been a virtual shoo-in had he been nomi­nated), I will have to lean toward Mike Figgis for "Leaving Las Vegas." The Academy will give him the award as they attPmpt to atone for the fact that they 
negle~ted his film's bid for Best Picture; in 
a category with no clear favorites, this is probably a better reason than any. Ron Howard was quite unjustly passed over in this category; "Apollo 13" was not the best film out there. but his direction was out of this world-please pardon the pun. 
BEST PICTURE: for once. the hardest category to predict. "Apollo 13" is the most popular, and arguably the most uplifting (definitely the most patriotic) choice, but even so, it was a one-note, sterile film. enjoyable but not deeply moving. If Hollywood feels that way too, the Academy may opt for "Sense and Sensibility," a better movie than "Apollo." Its obvious Britishness may put it at a disadvan­tage, but every so often the Brits make inroads into Oscar territory-"llamlet" in 1948, "Chariots of Fire" in 1981, and the entire early 60's are good exam­ples. "Braveheart" is, at heart, an action movie, and it shouldn't feel bad-"Raiders of the Lost Ark" didn't win either. It's no coinci­dence that it's been twenty years since a foreign film has even been nominated, so "The Postman'"s chances are slim, no matter what Gene . Siskel says. And 
· "Babe"-ah, "Babe," a wonderful movie, but a movie about a pig. Perhaps all of these. 
movies are truly deserving, but only "Apollo'' and "Sense" are true contenders. That said, I say the winner of Best Picture 1995 wi'l bc..."Sense and Sensibility," in faith that the Aeademy's standards arc high this year. 
There you go: Spacey, Sorvino, Cage, Sarandon, Figgis, and "Sense and Sensibility." In addition to these. look for Emma Thomps,Jil, as I mentioned before, to win for AdaptPd Sereenplay, which could boost "Sense and Sensibility"'s chances consider­ably-a screenplay winner almost always wins BHst Picture as well. For Original ScrecnJilay, Christopher McQuarrie, the scribe of "The llsual Suspects," should win, but it's a tough field-you can never count Woody Allen or Oliver Stone out. My final prediction: look for John Toll to repeat as Best Cinematographer-last year, "Legends of the Fall," this year, "Braveheart." 
But this year, who knows? 
• fATMAN AJW DtUlDY AT 
Fatman: 

Stuffed and decorated for grand eelebration comes to es: four and a half hours o and, worst of all, Whoopi, s box in the form of the Oscar and l received tickets to att ets arc deep-ready to hold that they serve in the lobb during the show while I p Heston's chair and inees absurd tautology "! am tha ear. Daddy has placed mirr that he can observe the lin has to offer, with a special glance of the voluptuous We've worked long and har nity-the critic's penultim finding some innate rreativit now that it has finallv arrive if I can bear the excitmnent. 
But, before becoming ov , us refleet on the glory tha have given us in the past. that blissful March night Costner won Best Director C With Wolves," while Marty snubbed for the umptccntl when AI Pacino won Best Ae of a Woman"? How about being crotchety in "Driving ly had moments-probably f 
The real question is, why win are never the truly de. Daddy and I ponder every We've tried to discover the through propaganda-laden Freemason officials. and ta but we have been unsuceess cy of the Osears is deeply theories for the cultural irre market forces, organized Christian Coalition, etc. But I 
Daddy: 

Armed with only my aee1 Food" T-shirt, I sashayed in and notorious robbery. Kn would onee again witness t wrest the naked golden du hands of the talented few, pared myself to watch the g the '92 Republican eonventi March, and it is once again undeserving and hurl fece those with true cinematic vis Well. without further porn let's get down to what ever ing: the presentation of the Oscars! Sure, this experim won't mimic the outeome o ain't even going to keep tru nominees themselves! The give you the year in film the AMEHICAN way! In order t or libel suits. we dub our a loving reference to Disney's vertcd attempt to cash in o that is tearing this joint apar BEST SUPPORTING ACTO down. Who is Keyser Soze? 1 ster this side of Steve Forbe complex character to strut aters this year. Kudos, Kevi! due. Brad Pitt, we are ever ~ ary talents can't overcome t~ 
BEST SUPPORTING ACTRE 
The Gordies go to Tia Carre 
for "Tommy Boy!" Congrat 
proven that the combination 
talent is a recipe for Hollyw 
ing you in your upeoming Fo 
BEST ACTOR: The Gord 
Gingrich for their advocatio 
-~-----------~-------------------~---~------------------­

Monday, March 25, 1996 

ADEMY AWARDS 
THE OscARS 
I of the happy folk of rnoviedom, the ou today. That's right, lads and lass­dry spneches, ill-chosen rewardees, rawlnd across your insidious picture on Monday night. This ynar. Daddy nd tlw hig show in person. My pock­thP oodlns of complementary cheese 
so that I can overburden my jowls 1t my fnnt on the hack of Charlton antly whispnr lhn 
I am" in his right on his shoos so that llollywood 
lJH' of l'all·hing a osiP O'f>ontwll. for this opporlu­
tn rPward hnhind for himsPII'-and . l don't know 
anxious, lnt tlw Oscars \PilWIIIIWr 
n Knvin r "llanres nt homn tinw? Or 
r for his hamnwd-up rol1~ in "Scent hal annoying old lady who won for iss llaisy'"! Tlw Oscars have certain­
too many of Llwm. it that thn movins and actors that 
.rving vil'tors? It's a question that waking momnnl of our existencns. answnr by thr~ usual mnans-sif'ling 
III'WSJHtpnrs. talking with our loeal ing a lnad pipn to Michad Eisnt~r­ul in 1~nch attmnpt. Thn veiled sncre­rnhnddnd in thn establishment. The evancn of tlH~ Oscars are bountifui­Tinw, thn Band corporation, tlw have 1~onw to tlw conclusion that Llw 
hir· wit and my "Pow1~rnd By Junk 
o Uw den of conformity 1wing full w1~1l that I wr-monJ.(Pring hacks Ins from thn rightful 
snt down and prn­~~atnsl travnsty since 
111. Yns. irulnfld, it is .., 
'tinw to reward tlw s into thn nyfls of ion. p and circumstance, orw knew was com­
htlman and Daddy ~nl in snlf-adulation the Osears: hell, we ~ to tlw 1~atngorins or 
1 

atman and I plan to iJ". 
ay it should he-tlw •_ 1 avoid u~~Y, eoJ~yri~l~t , · ards tlw (,onllns. rn unsw~r1~ssful and pnr-it 
thn talking pig mania \ l ~ ,i: Knvin Spae1~y. hands l'lw most notorious gang-\. 
and undnniably the most his sassy stuff in the thn-' n, this award is long over-<.,__ 
only truly plausible answer is fluoride. Due to an abundance of 
this controlling chemical in our nation's supply of drinking water, 
all of our precious bodily fluids have been contaminated. We, and 
especially the members of the Academy, have lost all reason as a 
result. We are puppets in the hands of cultural idiocy and we 
have no perspective on quality, originality, or technical genius. 
This is why Stanley Kubrick has ne-ver won an Oscar for Best 
Dimetor. This is also why Mel Gibson is nominated for Best 
Director. 

Oh, the eritics will cry again this year after "Babe" takes home 
a sweep of the big four categories due to some deft 
invnsting. Almost every year, the bad movies 
win. Almost every year, the critics complain 
afterwards. llere's a quick sampling of the 
Oscars' crapping on the cinema: "Dances 
With Wolves," "Unforgiven," "Silence of the 
Lambs," and "Forrest Gump." I thought that 
al'ler the ever-insipid Tom Hanks doubled the 
idiocy last year and "Forrest Gump" was 
named the finest picture the world had to 
offer for 1994, the extermination of the 
Academy would begin. But no, the insitution 
is still intact and is still given respect by the 
public. It's the choice between art and 
. money-and in the States, it's definitely 
~ 
money that drives the production of films 
and wins at the Oscars. The actual crafts­
manship that goes into moviemaking 
rnceives very little attention at the Awards-it's only the "in" 
directors, or lifetimers who "deserve" to be recognized, who 
aetually win. Very little of what goes on in the major awards of 
the Osears (the more technical awards are a bit more fair) has to 
do with merit or artistic flair. That's why the Oscars suck every 
year. 

So, as I ease into my seat at the ceremony with my mammoth 
tuxedo poekets full of pilfered cheese and my breath smelling like 
costly champagne, I'll be sure not to take it all too seriously. Of 
course. wlwn I encounter lifetime idols like Cnristian Slater and 
Sharon Stone, it might be hard to maintain perspective. But, with 
Daddy heckling the winners and my attention focused on the eat­
ing at hand. I don't think we'll find ourselves too taken in by it all. 
I'll smile and be particularly careful to avoid the water, unless it's 
pure rain water with a little bit of grain alcohol in it. 
inequitable and infeasible concept been portrayed as being so 
simple and chivalrous. Actually, our Gordy goes to Hobert DeNiro 
for his work in "Casino." Maybe y'all can consider this payback 
for the Academy's shortcomings in their recognition of 
"Goodfellas." Or maybe this year of movies just smelled like an 
outhouse. 

BEST ACTRESS: Emma Thompson for "Sense and 
Sensibility." Definitely a consummate performance from an 
incredible professional, Emma breathes life even into the 
comatose narratives of Jane Austen (a feat worthy of a whole 
bushel of naked golden menl. Sharon Stone? Maybe for 
her job in "Action Jackson," certainly not for anything 
past "Total Hecall." Go get a bra, a dose of integrity, and 
call us in the morning. 

BEST DIHECTOH: The Gordy lands in the deserving lap 
of Martin Scorcese for his visual masterpiece, "Casino." 
For those of you who actually have taste, Martin's 
prowess is enough to bridge even the gaps of relativity. 
Better luck next year, Mel; we loved your battle 
seenes; we felt dirty and violated by the way you 
prostituted our emotions. 
BEST FILM: The most coveted Gordy goes to ... "Babe!" Talking pigs have hit it big again. and this time they're not limited to the realm of the Fortune 500. Unquestionably the most original movie of the year, and perhaps the only one you could take your kids to Ias long as they don't feel frightened by, as does the Patman, the skill of:;:a porcine thespians.) We can only hope this gem 
o sorry; but even our liter-~ breeds as many sequels as did James Bond; we 
n ftlet that you rPally lick butt.  can only pray that they start putting hay on the  
'S: Lad ins and Germs, we have a tie!  floor of theaters and that there is no latent increase of polydacty­ 
n for "Jury Duty," and to Bo Derek  ly among cousins.  
lations ladins! You've  once again  Well, it has been, as it is always, fun. We hope you enjoy the  
of a favorable cup size and a lack of  real Oscars, and we'll remind you that YOU can see US at the  
od success. We look forward to see- movies!  
y Boxing mateh.  
y gons to  Dick Arrney and Newt  When not handing out statuettes ofgolden pigs, Daddy is Scott  
of the flat tax! Never has such an  Bozik.  

T 

page 11 

1995 OSCAR NOMINEES 
BEST ACTRESS: Susan Sarandon-"Dead Man Walking" Elisabeth Shue-"Leaving Las Vegas" Sharon Stone-"Casino" Meryl Streep-"The Bridges of Madison County" 
Emma Thompson-"Sense and Sensibility" 
BEST SUPPORTING ACTRESS: ~ Joan Allen-"Nixon" Kathleen Quinlan-"Apollo 13" Mira Sorvino-"Mighty Aphrodite" Mare Winningham-"Georgia" Kate Winslet-"Sense and Sensibility" 
BEST CINEMATOGRAPHY: "Batman Forever" -Stephen Goldblatt "Braveheart" -John Toll "A Little Princess" -Emmanuel Lubezki "Sense and Sensibility" -Michael Coulter "Shanghai Triad" -Lu Vue 
BEST DIRECTOR: Chris Newman-"Babe" Mel Gibson-"Braveheart" Tim Robbins-"Dead Man Walking" Mike Figgis-"Leaving Las Vegas" Michael Radford-"II Postino" 
BEST SOUND EFFECTS EDITING: "Batman Forever" "Braveheart" "Crimson Tide" 
BEST DOCUMENTARY FEATURE: "Anne Frank Remembered" "The Battle Over Citizen Kane" "Fiddlefest" "Hank Aaron: Chasing the Dream" "Troublesome Creek: AMidwestern" 
BEST LIVE ACTION SHORT MOIVE: "Brooms" "Duke of Groove" "Lieberman in Love" "Little Surprises" "Tuesday Morning Ride" 
BEST COSTUME DESIGN: "Braveheart" "Restoration" "Richard Ill" "Sense and Sensibility" "12 Monkeys" 
BEST ACTOR: 

Nicolas Cage-"Leaving Las Vegas"
Richard Dreyfuss-"Mr. Holland's Opus" 
D tJ Anthony Hopkins-"Nixon" Sean Penn-"Dead Man Walking" 0 0 Massimo Troisi-"II Postino" 
0 0

BEST SUPPORTING ACTOR: James Cromwell-"Babe" Ed Harris-"Apollo 13" Brad Pitt-"12 Monkeys" Tim Roth-"Rob Roy" Kevin Spacey-"The Usual Suspects" 
BEST ORIGINAL SCORE-DRAMA: "Apollo 13"-James Horner "Braveheart"-James Horner "Nixon"-John Williams "II Postino"-Luis Bacalov "Sense and Sensibility"-Patrick Doyle 

BEST ORIGINAL SCORE-MUSICAL/COMEDY: "The American President"-Marc Shaiman "Pocahontas"-Alan Menken, Stephen Schwartz "Sabrina"-John Williams "Toy Story"-Randy Newman "Unstrung Heroes"-Thomas Newman 
BEST ORIGINAL SCREENPLAY: "Braveheart"-Randall Wallace "Mighty Aphrodite"-Woody Allen "Nixon"-Stephen J. Rivele, Christopher Wilkinson, Oliver Stone . "Toy Story"-Joss Whedon, Andy Stanton, Joel Cohen "The Usual Suspects"-Christopher McQuarrie 
BEST PICTURE: "Apollo 13" "Babe" "Braveheart" "II Postino" "Sense and Sensibility" 
BEST SOUND: "Apollo 13" "Batman Forever" "Braveheart" "Crimson Tide" "Waterworld" 
BEST VISUAL EFFECTS "Apollo 1~" "Babe" 

-I 
I 
I I 
j 
I 


page 12 Monday, March 25, 1996 
TL 0 JL Sf 8L • dfL Sf f ff ·'' 1'11SoA~OPEBAUroATEs
ne scars: ne ory en In ne aue e DaYs otou1ti~es . 


By KRISTEN DOYLE and MARK TORMA Associate Accent Editor and Accent Movie Critic 
Rewind to May 16, 1929. It was a relatively quiet affair. Modest really, in contrast to the globally televised debacle of glitz and glamour that is the Academy Awards today. There were no white-knuckle drumrolls since the winners had been announced three weeks ear­lier. Dinner and dancing preceded the Academy's annual financial report and the presentation of the awards. 
The Academy itself was composed primarily of the first large studio executives. For Hollywood's heavy-hitters like David Oselsnick and Sam Goldwyn of MGM, Oscars equaled dollar signs and rumors of a corrupt selection process ran rampant in the early years of the awards. Later, a secret ballot process was adopted and the voting body diversified to include film technicians, actors, directors and writers. 
The form of the Oscars has certainly evolved and refined over the past sixty-eight years, but the trends that distinguish the honorees tell a fascinating story. Their choices mirror the attitudes of an industry and often of an entire society. 
The history of the Oscars can not be proper­ly viewed as an objective annual of Hollywood's best, but rather should be seen as a collection of freeze-frames, com­posed by real people who's choices reflect their changing preferences and oversights. 
The thirties marked the birth of Hollywood's obsession with the "mega-hit" and the "mega-star." In 1934 "It Happened One Night" wowed the industry with the very first Oscar sweep, boasting a total of five wins including Best Picture, Director, Actor, and Actress. 
This feat has been repeated only twice by "One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest" in 1975 and "Silence of the Lambs" in 1991. 1939 is commonly referred to as the "crown jewel" of the movie age as some of the most legendary films were released, exhibiting some of the most memo­rable performances in screen histo­ry. 
"The Wizard ofOz", "Stagecoach", and "Mr. Smith Goes to Washington" were among the nominees for Best Picture, but "Gone With the Wind" won and took home seven other Oscars to boot. The Academy tended to overlook small scale, low-budget pieces in favor of the blockbusters. Sadly, only the contemporary film connoisseur will resurrect the smaller, unrecognized thirties films from the dusty film archives. 
The 1940s spotlighted many of the films that today's audiences consider part of the canon of American film classics. "The Maltese Falcon,""Citizen Kane," and "It's a Wonderful Life" were all nominees for Best Picture. 
The first part of the decade was character­ized by movies that dealt with World War II; "Casablanca" (the Best Picture winner in 1943) and "Mrs. Miniver" (the 1942 winner) were among them. They exhibited an intense patriotism and gave many the same feeling. 
Fast forward to 1952. The Awards as we 

know them began to take shape with their first 
live broadcast. They emerged as a national 
obsession where the beautiful people were 
dressed to kill, and came together for one tri­
umphant night of glamour and competition. 
The night itself was growing longer too. The number of awards had grown from eleven to twenty and would eventually reach twenty­four with additions like Best Supporting Actor and Actress in 1936, Best Docum~tary in 1940 and Costume Design in 1948/ 
The Academy Award honorees from the fifties reflected the social expectat(ons of the decade to a tee. A classic portrait of the ideal male and female was constructed. Male win­ne.rs like Marlon Brando, Gary Cooper, and Carlton Heston made the macho, strong, silent type the order of the day. Audrey Hepburn and Grace Kelly were idealized by young girls as the very embodiments of delicate feminini­ty. 
Hollywood in the fifties began to honor some 

of the impressive smaller films, but the big 
budget epic ("The Ten Commandments" and 
"Ben Hur") and the musical ("Gigi" and "An American in Paris") dominated. 
The movie industry initially resisted the rev­olutionary spirit of the 1960s, and chose to honor the safer choices typified by the musi­cal. "West Side Story" received ten Oscars in 1961 and "My Fair Lady" won eight in 1964. Harsher, more relevant films like "The Hus­tler" (1961) and "Dr. Strangelove" (1964) were nominated in fewer numbers and were seldom chosen as winners. 
However in the latter half of the sixties Hollywood recognized the hard-hitting drama. In 1967 Katherine Hepburn won in the 6est Actress category for "Guess Who's Coming to Dinner" a picture which challenged racial boundaries and earned a total of seven nominations; the equally revolutionary "The Graduate" and "In the Heat of the Night" were honored in the same year. The 1969 triumph of "Midnight Cowboy" over "Hello Dolly" es­tablished the Oscar tradition of the modern movie as a powerful social agent and commentator. 
The Oscars in the first half of the seventies were a tribute to all that are dark and sinister. Every trace of the hokiness of the early sixties was blotted out by films like the 1971 Best Pic­ture "The French Connection" and the 1972 and 197 4 winners the "Godfather Parts I" and 
"II." 

The political activism of the sixties became 
fashionable in Hollywood in the 
seventies not only in the selec­
tions by the Academy but at 
the ceremony itself. Marlon 
Brando sent a Native American 
to accept his Best Actor Oscar in 
1972 and Vanessa Redgrave incited 
a protest against her anti-Zionist 
views when she won for Best 
Supporting Actress for "Julia" in 
1977. Today the Oscars are a 
virtual forum for the social and 
political ideas of the industry. 
Inspirational films took over in 
the late seventies, as the enter­
tainment business sought to give 
some light to a post-war hope­
starved nation. "Rocky" which 
uplifted packed theaters for many 
weeks after it was released won for 
Best Picture in 1976 and Woody 
Allen's quirky romance "Annie Hall" 
was honored in 1977. 
The selection process in the latter part of the century has focused away from recognizing ) entire careers with Oscars and instead aimed to honor specific outstanding pieces and per­formances. This shift provided newcomers the opportunity to jumpstart their careers with an early Oscar; notable beneficiaries of this trend were Woody Allen, Sally Field and Richard Dreyfus. _ 
The 1980s are hard to classify; it was a decade of many one hit wonders that spanned the spectrum of film genre. The only major repeat winner within the decade was Oliver Stone for his direction of "Platoon" and "Born on the Fourth of July." As far as the big trophy of 
Best Picture went, it was the decade of the epic ("Ghandi," 1982), the tear-jerker ("Terms of Endearement," 1983), the period-piece ("Amadeus," 1984) and the romance ("Out of Africa," 1985) all in one. 
How Will film history label the most recent choices of the Academ'y? Will the resurrection of the Western ("Unforgiven" and "Dances with Wolves" have both won Best Picture.) emerge as a powerful trend or mere coinci­dence? 
What about the Academy's new acceptance 
for the Hitchockian shocker? Hitchcock him­
self never received an Oscar, but "Silence of 
the Lambs" and "Misery" have both been hon­
ored. 

Or will a long-term celebration of the human 
spirit be the defining trend of the nineties? 
(Consider "Schindler's List," "Forrest Gump" 
and all of the 1996 nominees). Whichever 
path the Academy takes in their Oscar distrib­
ution, a few constants will endure. The outfits 
will dazzle, the false modesty will flow like the 
wine at the post-ceremony party at Spago's, 
and the nation will be watching. 
Bo andHope are fmally back together, although there were some majoi: tumors ~hat Jude was going to sell·Hope into slavery to get rid of bet\ Even t}toqgh J3o WM wounded and another huge snow­
storm was. o.11 its way, he knew he had to suck it up and search. for Hppe. I;Ie.esc~p€l<Jfrom the pubwhere he was being nursed back to . health and then tra,c;ked Jude's footprints through the woods where he eventually met up with Hope, who had done a little escaping of her own. 
After Jude found out she vyas a cop, their whole living ar-\ rangement beca:rb:e unbearable. Unfortunately, even though Bo and Hope were reunited; Jude held them at gunpoint. Bo pretended to give in and asked for one more kiss from Hope when he had her close, he revealed his plan. They distracted Jude and wrestled the gun away. (Believe it or not, they actually had to discuss this intri­cate plan.) . The plan worked, but Bo got hurt in the process, which allowed Jude to. escape. 
Meanwhile, Jack was on a missionto find Jude. He already had a Witness who had seen Jude talking to another man, but he only saw the other man from behind. Still, Jack knew Peter was the mysterious partner. 
Jack finally found Jude, but when Jude offered to make a deal to reveal his boss if Jack would let him go, Jack refused. When Jack refused, a desperate Jude attacked him. Peter, however, had wit· nessed the whole thing and when the struggle began, Peter shot at Jude. 
Unfortunately, Jennifer was also out in the woods, and when Peter shot at the struggling pair and both fell, she assumed Jack was dead. She raced to Jack's side, but she soon realized Jude was the fallen one, notJack. Jack then accused Peter of killing Jude on purpose, and of course, Peter denied doing so and assumed he was off the hook now that Jude's dead. 
Back in Salem, things are heating up! Kristen is trying terribly hard to win John over, but the problem is Marlena. John is in love With her, and the signs are obvious. He claims to only be concerned about her because of Stefano and that the reason he can not truly love her is because she doubted his innocence over Tony's death. 
Kristen has begged and pleaded with him, in a very ugly neg· ligee, to tell her how to make things better. John then ran off to help find Stefano, and Kristen headed to confront "Doc." Now that Kate is back, she is ready to shake things up in the Carrie and Austin corner. Kate, however, also has to worry about Vivian, who still is convinced she will win Victor back. For her part, Vivian and man servant, Ivan, attempted to steal the unsigned divorce papers from Victor's study, but Kate caught them trying to leave the house. Kate made sure Victor signed the papers, while Victor told Vivian to salvage any shred of dignity she still had and leave. 
Everyone including Vivian showed up to celebrate the opening of a new dance club in Salem. Vivian got sloshingly drunk and encouraged Ivan's passes at her. They shared several passionate kisses before Vivian agreed to meet Ivan in her bedroom in one hour. As she climbed into bed with "Ivan," she was surprised to see that Stefano was the man in bed with her. Another of her old flames! Could they be planning to help each other get their respec­tive loves back? 
-Erin Kelsey and Christina Ftiscar 
General Hospital 

The big news first: Damien is dead (yes, we have heard that one before, but this time there was a body). When an arsonist set the Ward House on frre, Damien was trapped inside and killed. No one is really sure what Damien was doing there, but they are quite glad he is dead. His funeral was attended by Katherine and Ned, who managed to put aside their differences to mourn the most hated man in Port Charles. 
Damien had written his own eulogy, and Katherine gave a touch­ing soliloquy at his coffin about his love for her. Much to the shock of the citizens of Port Chuck, just about all were invited to his Will reading, which was slightly twisted. 
He had made them a video of himself, and had left his 'friends' a barrage of appropriate gifts; Mac got a broken magnifying glass and Lucy received a crystal ball. Katherine, however, walked away the big winner; she got the Smith family fortune. Afterwards, all 
. assembled at Luke's for one final rank-out session towards Damien. Garcia interrupts to report Damien's death was not an accident. 
Good old Bobl:)ie is still having the dead children dream. Tony thinks it is healthy, thatit is just closure over BJ's death. When one of the Ward House children needs a place to stay after the fire. Bobbie takes him in until a foster home can be found. She becomes very attached. and is sad when social services finds Baby James a family. 
This incident inspires her to contact an agency to find the daugh­ter she gave up for adoption when she was fifteen; because she does not know the lawyer's name or the father's (it was way back in her prostitute days) it might· take awhile, but she is hopeful. AJ is hitting the bottle pretty hard again. After fighting with Ned (an original concept there) he gets really drunk and passes out on the docks. Robin and Jason find him, and Robin convinces Jason (who works at Luke's now) to help him. They drive AJ around, waiting for him to sober up. In the car, he confesses to them that he was the one driving when Jason had his accident. 
TOJl1 and felicia are finally moving in the romance department. The two share a kiss on the rooftop, and then he plans a "Little Mermaid" fant<tSY date for the two of them. Unfortunately, Felicia's allergy to avocados gets in the way, and it must be postponed until another time. 
Brenda makes a deal with Jax; if he helps her make Sonny jeal­ous, she Will help him break up Lois ttnd Ned. Lois knows about Brenda's plan, and does not approve, even though Brenda has no intentions of breaking up Ned and her. Lucy contacts Jax about buying half of Dec~ption; the Quartermaines are p!itting it up for sale and Lucy does not have the cash to cover it. 
-Jennifer Rubow 


Monday, March 25, 1996 The Observer • SPORTS page 13 
1996 NCAA Basketball Championshi s 

Texas Tech Georgetown 
Kentucky Utah 
Louisville Wake Forest 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from !! a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Noue Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. ro 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classificds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
NOTICES  Nannies needed for the summer in Chicago & suburbs. Great families,  CLAY TWNSHP 1&2 BDROOM UNITS ($350 & $450); STOVE,  JUNIORS!\  Ted is a member of A.F.R.O.S.  Hey Greg, don't be a wuss.  
great pay, & a great city. Call Erin  FRIG,UTILITIES INCLUDED;  Next Tuesday, join us for a trip to  What a stud.  
at #4021 for info.  SEC.DEP&LASTMONTH;NEAR  see the Pacers play the Callies in  
Don't know what to do with the  NOTRE DAME. 272-1968.  Indianapolis! Tickets are only $25  Hey Ron, cheer up. Don't let one  
s1bs this weekend, sophs? Buzz  ALSO GRAD OR FACULTY  and are on sale at the LaFortune  Piece of@#$%# car,  thing get you down. Spend money  
Lightyear to the rescue!  WANTED: Good people to earn  UNIT: $375.00 PLUS UTILITIES;  Info. Desk. Transportation is pro­ I got a piece of@#$%$ car.  and you'll feel better.  
TOY STORY showing @ Cushing  money by becoming reps for  FURNISHED; SEC DEP&LAST  vided. Call 1-5117 with any ques­ The@#$#$# piece of@#$%#,  
Fn & Sat 8 & 10:30  EXCEL Telecommunications. Call  MONTH; NEAR N.D. 272-1968.  tions.  Never gets me very far.  
Sun@ 2  299-1999 evenings.  When's the lottery so we can all fig­ 
ure out what lucky team Dante is  
Need Summer Housing?  ******RESERVOIR CLOWNS******  @#$%me in the goat @##@I  going to be drafted by?  
EUROPE $229  EASTERN EUROPE JOBS - Fully furnished 2 bedroom apt at  
Be a little llexible and save $$$  Teach basic English in Prague,  College Park for rent.  
We'll help you beat the airline  Budapest, or Krakow. No leaching  Call X2915 for details.  Calif. actress-writer wife & photog­ Pass me around the mash pit ...  The writers who vote for the Cy  
prices.  certificate or European languages  rapher husband wish to adopt new­ Crankltup,#$#$##1  Young Award are going to sound a  
Destinations Worldwide  required. Inexpensive Room &  born. Will provide love, nurturing  lot like Elton John ...  
AIRTICHtm 800-397-1098 airtich@ netcom.com  Board + other benefits. For info. call: (206)971-3680 ext. K55841  FOR SALE  environ., educ., financial security. Hollywood Hills home has large  It's got no CD player, it's only got  "Rocket Man"  
back yard and loving dog. Call  the S-track.  
NATIONAL PARKS HIRING­ 818/241-5535 collect. Legal &  Whoever designed my car, can lick  God or this? My life is going to be  
Positions are now available at  CRUISE SHIPS NOW HIRING­ 1421 N. Oak Hill Dr., by owner,  Confidential.  my sweaty@#@$# @#@I  like Live. "Lighting Crashes" on my  
National Parks, Forests & Wildlife  Earn up to $2,000+/month working  immaculate, two full baths, garage,  head. I'm dead. He's going to  
Preserves. Excellent benefits +  on Cruise Ships or Land-Tour com­ finished lower level, walk to ND,  strike me down. It's all over. And  
bonuses! Call: 1-206-971-3620  panies. World travel. Seasonal &  range, dishwasher, microwave,  I got no @##@$#brakes,  to think, I had just 8 more days.  
ext.N55846  full-lime employment available. No  refrigerator, washer/dryer, garage  ATIN: FEMALE SOPHOMORE  I'm always way out of control.  
experience necessary. For more  door opener, $77,900,  ACCOUNTING MAJORS ......  Eleven times a day,  
The Michiana Paintball Club now  information call 1-206-971-3550  ph. 277-8898  Looking for a campus job for next  I hear, "Hey, watch it@#@##$#!"  And it was such a nice ball.  
has an Indoor Paintball field in  ext. C55844  year?  
South Bend -Free membership.  Responsibilities include working 1  
291-9462  1990 two-door red Chevy Cavalier.  hour/day (M-F)  Ms. Pac-Man Rules the world.  Schwin. Or was it a Huffy.  
$ Cruise Ships Hiring! Students  Good condition. Call Wendy at  Great experience, great payll  Anyone who thinks different can call  
Wake up & smell the coffee!  Needed! $$$+Free Travel  273-5818. $4000 or best offer.  Apply at the MORRISSEY LOAN  Dave Bradley at 273-0391.  
(Caribbean, Europe, Hawaii!)  FUND in the Dooley Rm.  Yummy.  
Attention! Today is the final day to  SeasonaVPermanent, No Exper.  (across from Info Desk in  
submit a student entry for the  Necessary. Gde. 919-929-4398  La Fort)  Crank it up, @#@#@#!  
Morrissey Filmiest. To submit your  extC1114  JUDAY CREEK gem.  between 11 :30-12:30 M-F  Tell your friend Veronica,  
film or for more Information, contact  Well-maintained, 4-bedroom ranch  by April3.  It's time to celebrate Hanukkah.  
Andy at X3501 in 203 Morrissey.  with a 17 x 25 home office  You better not ... uh ... mention  So drink your gin and tonica,  
DO YOU KNOW WHAT YOU ARE  & 3-car garage.  that again.  And smoke your marijuanica.  
Sexual Assault Awareness  DOING NEXT YEAR? TEACH  5 minutes to ND.  
Week is coming!  FOR AMERICA IS LOOKING FOR  REDUCED TO $149,500  Hey SA WI Just a few things to bring  
April14-18  OUTSTANDING INDIVIDUALS TO  Call Karen 272-3653.  you back!  Man, you really whizzed that one.  Crank it up, @#@#@#!  
TEACH UNDER-SERVED STU­ 1. What does Mahatma mean?  You buttonhooked me, I wasn't  
ILOST & FOUND I  DENTS IN URBAN AND RURAL AREAS. CALL 1-800-823-1230  2. My mind is like a --. 3. How bout the ancient mariner for  expecting you to buttonhook me. You're a regular Staubach.  Bridget's Recollection: Todd, Intro­ 
DEADLINE APRIL 3RD.  Waterfront Condos  dinner?  duce me to KO again. I swear I  
LOST LOST LOST LOST  1 Bedrooms from $52,000  Hey Dowd thanks for the contribu­ won't ask her what time it is, like I  
Green wool coat and wallet Sat,  2 Bedrooms from $80,000  tion, all the rest of you, send me  Congratulations Ben Davis High  did last time.  
March 2 at Sorin. Would like to eat in the near future. Please call  [ FORRENT  New Decor EVERYTHING included  mail now!  School in Indianapolis for their sec­ond straight state title. Now back to  
Kristin at X3803.  Close to Notre Dame  our regular programming.  Another Bridget's Recollection: Tell  
BEAUTIFUL!  your roommate that I'm never talk­ 
LOST: a silver pin with the  ROOMS FOR RENT IN PRIVATE  NORTH SHORE CLUB  Hey Clare Walkeri  ing to her again. She ditched me.  
enscribed word: BELIEVE. This  HOME.  232-2002  You favorite roommates miss you  I can't see you, it's too dark, come  
piece of jewelery has much senti­ VERY CLOSE TO ND.  so walk around in your free feet and  closer.  
mental meaning. Please call Kerry  IDEAL FOR SMC-ND EVENTS.  have a pint for us!  I'm really bad altha! murder game.  
at 4-2493 if found. Thanks.  272-6194.  I'd rather play good cop bad cop  
PC SYSTEM FOR SALE  Oooh, the Ragu Festivale.  with the BP girts.  
LOST: Woman's gold sapphire ring  Packard Bell 486 Desktop  
with two small diamonds last  MISHAWAKA (West End). 602 W.  Computer, Monitor, Printer, Internal  Happy Belated Birthday to KEVIN  
semester. If found, please call  6th. X-NICE large 2 bdrms, $425  Modem, and all accesories.  LANE!\ I Shooting 35--wow, what  Hey Todd- Crank it up, @#@#@#!  
X2446. Reward.  mos. + dep. + gas. References. No  Windows 3.0 and many other pro­ a STUD!\ I  Will you ever rise above the fantas­ 
----·----­ pels. Available 4/1. Can show start­ grams. Asking $795.00 -289-9508  tic 145,1 00? Doubt it.  
Lost:  ing 3/29. 256-7152 for appt.  Dontae' Jones has the best shot at  
Notre Dame Student ID.  the college level. Not to mention he  
Last seen exiting Regina on Thursday before break. If found call Mike O'Hara @273-6183.  5 bdrms, 2 full baths, alarm sys, refrig, stove, partially furnished.  PERSONAL  Happy belated Allison and Kerrill Too bad it's not the big 21, but we'll celebrate next year...  Major Woody, Private Parts and three other guys stationed at Fort Dix is the best team in Bookstore.  has the most interesting spelling of Dante.  - 
Heat incl. Completely remodeled.  0o0o0o0o0o0o0o0o0o0o0  We're going to house everyone.  
WANTED  606 N. St. Peter. 289-5999 or 255-9471  QUALITY COPIES, QUICKL VIII THE COPY SHOP  I disagree. While Dontae' Jones' shot Is good, I think Carmello  
Mark Kramer.  LaFortune Student Center  Lets just make a million bets and  That is, except for maybe Models  Travieso has the best shot at the  
MOM'S HELPER  Phone 631-COPY  drive him insane ....  Inc. II.  college level.  
Love Babies?  5 BR; 605 St Peter  0o0o0o0o0o0o0o0o0o0o0  
Assistance needed for 2 infants:  $925/mo 232-2595  I'll get the picture back .... you just  Carmello Travieso sucks.  
newborn and 8 months.  FAX IT FAST!!\  wait ....  Mortal Kombat II on Saga Genesis  
Late April thru Fall  Faculty or Student Available in  Sending & Receiving  is the best game ever.  You know what, you suck.  
50-20 hours  Aug.-For lease 4 bedroom, 2 full  at  Kristy- I disagree. Mortal Kombat is a very  
6.50/hr-10 a.m.-1 p.m. prefered  baths, furnished appliances-wash­ THE COPY SHOP  We all just wanted to wish our very­ good game, but I think Donkey  Speaking of Dante, where is our  
References required  er-dryer, attached 2 car garage, off  LaFortune Student Center  favorite Hawaiian a very happy birt­ Kong is the best game ever.  boy come Final Four time? You get  
Tel. 272 3237 Leave message  street parking, deposit + utilities.  Our Fax# (219) 631-FAX1  day. Happy 19thlll  Donkey Kong sucks.  one guess. Ask 40 of NC's finest  
please, if machine answers.  234-1336  FAX IT FASTIII  -From all of us  You know what, you suck!  women.  

----~--~-----~-----~­
~~
I 
I • COU..EGE BASKETBALl ~ 
I Wildcats smell a championship 
By OWEN CANFIELD Associated Press 
MINNEAPOLIS 
Hecent NCAA tournament losses to Duke, Michigan and Marquette stun~1 Kentucky. But each time, coach Rick Pitino says, the Wildcats were able to walk away proudly. 
That wasn't the case last year after a loss to North Carolina in the Southeast Hegional finals. Pitino believes selfish play doomed his team. 
"We looked at film the next day and said, 'Guys, this is why we lost. Store it away. We can't do anything about the loss, but next year let's be the direct opposite of this night,"' he said. "And they did that the entire year." 
The all-for-one, one-for-all mentality has taken Kentucky back to the Final Four again. The top­seeded Wildcats won the Midwest Regional with an 83-63 victory Saturday over No. 2 seed Wake Forest. 
Kentucky (32-2) will meet East Regional cham­pion Massachusetts in the NCAA semifinals Saturday night. UMass beat Kentucky 92-82 in the Wildcats' second game of the year. 
Kentucky enters the Final Four having won its four regional games by an average of 28 points. And they have shown that, while they prefer a quick tempo, they can win in a halfcourt game, too. 
Wake Forest (26-6) was able to keep the game at a moderate pace. Even so, Kentucky went out to a 19-point half­time lead, stretched it to 28 early in the second 

UMass goal now in full focus 
By PAUL NEWBERRY 
Associated Press 
ATLANTA 
Massachusetts has shown an uncanny knack for winning the close games all year. 
Now the Minutemen are play­ing like they don't want to take a chance on losing at the buzzer. 
The nation's top-ranked team turned overpowering at the NCAA East Regional, beating Arkansas by 16 points and then handing a very good George­town team its worst loss of the season. 
"We played great defense," UMass coach John Calipari said Saturday, savoring an 86-62 rout of Georgetown that gave the Minutemen their first trip to the Final Four. 
"We were diving to the floor for loose balls. We played unselfishly. We played with emotion and passion. We rebounded the heck out of the ball." 
The Minutemen (35-1) went to overtime to win four regular­season games, and 10 other contests were decided by fewer than 10 points. But since the NCAA tournament began, UMass has had only one close call, a 79-7 4 victory over Stan­ford in the second round; the half, then withstood a rally that saw the Demon Deacons get within 11. 

"Walking away from Wake Forest tonight, I'm so happy we had to play slow, play deliberate and we came away playing really strong, maybe our finest half of the season if not longer," Pitino said. 
He was talking about the first half, when Kentucky held All-American center Tim Duncan to three shots and only one point. Every time he touched the ball, he was sandwiched by two de­fenders who forced him to kick the ball back out. 
When that happened, Wake Forest wasn't able to get many open looks. The Demon Deacons fin­ished the half with just four field goals, on 4-of­18 shooting. 
"They were truly remarkable on defense," Pitino said. 
Wake Forest made things interesting for a while in the second half. The Demon Deacons started getting the ball into Duncan with more success, and he was quicker about putting up his shot. More often than not he got fouled and scored from the line. 
He had nine points and his teammates con­tributed five 3-pointers during a run that saw Wake Forest get within 11 twice, the final time 68-57 with 3:35 left. 
Then Tony Delk, who scored 25, hit a jumper and made three free throws after getting fouled on a 3-pointer. That made it a 16-point game and Kentucky coasted from there. 
"We understand now it really gets tough," Pitino said. 
other three games were de­Camby and Travieso also did cided by an average of 20.67 their part at the offensive end. points. Camby scored 22 points, in­
"Right now, we're playing the cluding the first three baskets best we have all year," Calipari of the second half, and freed up said. "We're fresh and alive." Travieso to drain six shots from 
The Hoyas (29-8), seeded sec­beyond the 3-point arc. ond in the East, can vouch for Travieso finished with 20 that. The Hoyas were close at points. halftime, 38-34, but UMass took Travieso's backcourt partner, control with a 9-0 run to begin Edgar Padilla, helped the Min­the second half. utemen thoroughly dominate 
"They were physically the battle of the backcourt. stronger than I thought they Padilla had eight points and were," said Georgetown coach five steals and held Georgetown John Thompson, denied what guard Victor Page, the Hoyas' would have been his first Final second-leading scorer, to nary Four appearance since 1985. a point. "They kept us on the perimeter more than I thought they would. We couldn't penetrate as much and get inside where we'd like to be." 
All-American center Marcus 

Camby, his long arms ready to swat away any Georgetown 
TournaJDent shot that came his way, clogged up the lane, while Carmela Travieso displayed textbook in­your-face defense against Ge­orgetown All-American Allen Iverson. 
"I just wanted to play him honest, not go after steals and contest every shot," said Travieso, who held Iverson to 23 points on 6-of-21 shooting and also came up with four of UMass' 16 steals. 
Monday, March 25, 1996 
Photo courtesy of Kentucky sports information 
Walter McCarty is a big reason why Kentucky is back in the Final Four. 
The Observer 
is now accepting applications for: 
Purchasing Manager 
Freshmen and Sophomores encouraged to apply. Please contact Matt Casey or Joe Hartzell @ 631-5313 or drop off your resume at The Observer Office, room 314 in LaFortune. 
•Resumes are due by 5:00PM on Friday, March 29TH. 
8-Ball 
Presnted by the Gorch Game Room 

Graduating soon? No job yet? 
Ever considered working in sports? 

For 8 years Sports Careers has provided products and services for sports industry job seekers, including The Insider newsletter (published twice a month with 60-75 currently available internships and jobs in sales, marketing, public relations, journalism and management each issue), an automated resume bank and more. 
Tuesday 
-For subscription information call ... 
March 26 
7:00PM 
. / .... . ) i .. .· .. ··· ····.· 

in the Gorch Game
ORIS 

CAREERS·.~···· 

Room $5 entry fee 
1-800-SPORT-77 


----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 

and eventual champion the entire first half. Arkansas made it to the nation­A fastbreak layup by Danny 
Jefferson Powell., 
al semifinals. Fortson, who led Cincinnati Mississippi State played its with 24 points and 13
Professor of Law at Duli.e University 
usual tight defense against rebounds, made it 41-38 with Cincinnati (28-5), which was 15:19 to play, and the Bearcats looking for its second Final failed to score on two posses­Four appearance in the '90s, sions that could have gotten and was able to hold off the one them within one or tied it. The big run the Bearcats made at Bulldogs then went on a 13-3 
on 

Loyalty to the Law: 
them. run over the next 6:21, and a 3­Jones, the unanimous selec­pointer by Marcus Bullard, his tion as regional MVP, had 28 first of the tournament, gave 
points in the 84-73 victory over them a 54-41 lead.
Politics and the Practice of Public 
,

r----------­
Lawyering in the United States 
Monday~ March 25 
4:00PM 

in the Law School Courtroom 
Monday, March 25, 1996 

Photo courtesy of Syracuse sports information 

Forward John Wallace scored 15 points in Syracuse's 60-57. 
What A Shocker Meredith Mueller 
•
IS 
21!!! 
present: 

The Observer • SPORTS page 15 
• COllEGE BASKETBALL 
'Cuse back at The Dance 
By TIM DAHLBERG Cipolla, cut on the fingers of his shooting hand Associated Press early in the game. missed the first free throw but then made the second. DENVER Kansas (29-5) was held to 34.4 percent shoot­
Syracuse was in a zone, and now the ing by the Syracuse zone, which continually frus­Orangemen are in the Final Four for the first trated efforts to get the ball inside to the time since 1987. Jayhawks' big men. 
Forcing Kansas into a miserable shooting game Syracuse (28-8). meanwhile, got 15 points each with a tight 2-3 zone, Syracuse upset the second­from Wallace and Otis llill as the two big men seeded Jayhawks 60-57 Sunday to win the NCAA got inside Kansas' man-to-man defense on West Hegional. numerous occasions for easy layups. 
When Jacque Vaughn's last 3-point attempt Syracuse led by nine points at halftime, but clanged off the rim as time ran out, Syracuse Vaughn and Haef LaFrenz came out of the locker players mobbed each other on the floor in cele­room looking to get Kansas back into the game. bration of their improbable run into the Final Diving for balls and flying through the lane, Four. Vaughn and LaFrenz scored the first 15 points of 
"Meadowlands, baby!" screamed Jason· the second half as Kansas roared back with an Cipolla, who made a free throw with 12.5 sec­18-5 run to open the second half. onds to give fourth-seeded Syracuse its final LaFrenz, scorelesss in first half, hit three bas­margin.Kansas managed to hold Syracuse star kets in 76 seconds to open the second half as John Wallace in check but, in a game where the Kansas roared back from the 35-26 halftime Jayhawks desperately needed the outside shot, deficit. could hit only 4-of-25 3-point attempts. Vaughn, forced to sit with three fouls and 
The final shot by Vaughn was symbolic Kansas' watch Syracuse build its lead in the last three utter inability to hit the long shot. The Jayhawks minutes of the first half, then took over, hitting a had plenty of time to set up the final shot, but 3-pointer to tie the game at 35, then adding Vaughn did not get a good look at the basket as three straight layups to give Kansas its first lead the Syracuse defense stretched out to deny the of the half, 41-40, with 14:28 left in the game. final points. At no time were the Jayhawks' woes more 
Kansas had trailed 59-54 before Vaughn hit obvious than in a 2-minute stretch late in the one of h.is team's few 3-pointers to pull the game with Syracuse holding a 54-52 lead. Jayhawks within two with 13.3 seconds left. John On three straight possessions, Kansas had a Wallace then inbounded a pass long to Cipolla, chance to tie the game but misfired badly all who was immediately fouled by Vaughn. three times. 
MSU earns first Final Four over Cincy 
By JIM O'CONNELL to a school that suddenly has Kentucky, only the Wildcats' Associated Press grabbed everybody's attention. second loss of the season. On Mississippi State beat th~n­Sunday, he had 15 points in the LEXINGTON, Ky. No. 1 Kentucky in the game's opening 7:19, making 
An incredible two-week run Southeastern Conference tour­six of his first seven shots. has Mississippi State in its first nament championship game 14 "Those are the shots l usually Final Four. Now all the days ago and knocked out top­take and I guess the adrenaline Bulldogs have. to do is keep it seeded Connecticut on Friday was little more pumped than going. night in the regional semifinals. usual," the junior forward said. 
They added to their im­In the weekend wins over the "They were falling for me, and pressive close of the season region's top two seeds, the when they fall, I keep shooting Sunday with a 73-63 victory Bulldogs never trailed. and it gets the team pumped over Cincinnati in the champi­Next up for fifth-seeded up." , onship game of the Southeast Mississippi State (26-7), which The Bulldogs shot 56 percent Regional. has won seven straight, will be and held the Bearcats to 36 
The Bearcats were only the Syracuse, which beat Kansas percent in taking a 37-29 half­latest high-profile team to fall 60-57 in the West Regional time lead. 
final, in Saturday's semifinals "We knew it would be a war 
at the Meadowlands in New from the tipoff, but Dontae' 
Jersey. made some big shots early and 
"Dreams are coming true for then we all gave that team 
us," said Dontae' Jones, who effort that we need to win 
led· the Bulldogs with 23 points and 13 rebounds. 
Top-ranked Massachusetts will play No. 2 Kentucky in the other national semifinal, and the winners meet next Monday night. 
The SEC had two teams in the Final Four for the second time in three years. In 1994, Florida games like we've been win­ning," Mississippi State guard Darryl Wilson said. 
Cincinnati opened the second half looking more like the team known for its defensive in­tensity. The Bearcats forced five turnovers in the opening 
3:27 of the second half after the Bulldogs committed only five in 
page 16 The Observer· SPORTS 
• 
•NBA 
Person exacts revenge on Indiana 
Miller ejection, Spurs three-point shooting knocks out Pacers 
By HANK LOWENKRON Associated Press 
INDIANAPOLIS 

Scoreless through three quarters, Chuck Person showed his former team that he can still hit the big 3-point shots. 
Person, who is second on Indiana's all-time NBA list for 3-pointers, hit three during a 15-2 fourth-quarter run as San Antonio defeated Indiana 100-88 Sunday. 
"The only way you can score is to shoot," Person said, after helping the Spurs extend the league's longest current winning streak to 13. "When you get to your spot, you've just got to shoot and not worry about whether it goes in." 
The Midwest Division leaders have gone 18-2 since losing their first two games following the All-Star break. 
"In the second half I play a lot of power for­ward, spread the defense, give David Robinson a chance to operate more one-on-one," Person said. "We've got shooters on the weak side in Sean Elliott and Vinny Del Negro. The guys trust one another and the chemistry is great." 
"It's all about getting to know one another," said Robinson, who had his 50th double-double of the season, topping the Spurs with 22 points and 13 rebounds. "I love this team. It has every­thing you want mentally and physically." 
Person missed his first six shots against his for­mer team before connecting for the first of two straight 3s with 10:03 to play, giving the Spurs an 81-75 lead. His second made it 84-75 with 
9:36 remaining, and his third put the Spurs ahead 91-77 with 7:38 to go. Indiana never drew closer than the final 12­point margin. 
The Pacers, who had leading scorer Reggie Miller ejected with his second technical in the third period, faded while making only one of 
Power Mac"7200/'90 
81500MB, CD, I)monitor 
Makes it easy to bring the vast new world of the Internet to your desk. And with the Apple" Internet Connection Kit and a modem, you'll be surfing on the Net faster 
than you can say "infonnation 
superhighway." 

their first eight shots in the final period. Two free throws by Rik Smits produced Indiana's only points in the San Antonio run, which ended on an Avery Johnson basket that made the score 93-77. The Pacers went more than 5 minutes without a field goal during the run. 
Coach Larry Brown had no problem with Miller's actions. 
"He's trying to win the game," Brown said. "I like to see him get emotional. That didn't lose the game for us. I don't fault him. We have other guys who can step up, but we didn't get it done because of the team we were playing. They're playing at a very high level." 
"It was very selfish on my part and I apolo­gized (to his teammates) after the game," Miller said. 'Tm sorry it happened. It's very unfortu­nate." 
Smits topped the Pacers with 16 points as Indiana shot 38 percent from the field. 
San Antonio, which had lost three straight to Indiana, had six players in double figures, including Johnson with 15. 
Miller, averaging 20.9 points, was called for an offensive foul and 'received his second technical for slamming the ball to the court in protest with 
8:5 3 remaining in the third period and the Pacers trailing 56-50. 
The loss was the seventh in 10 games for Indiana, with the only victories coming in games against expansion teams Toronto and Vancouver. 
Indiana battled back from a 9-point first-half deficit before Miller's ejection. The Spurs had built a 40-31 advantage in the second quarter when Indiana made only three of its first 15 shots. The Pacers cut the deficit to two points twice late in the period and trailed 48-45 at the break. 
NOTES: Indiana's Duane Ferrell came off the injured list to play for the first time since tearing a muscle in his right calf Feb. 18. He missed 16 games. Eddie Johnson, who missed the previous four games with a sprained left knee, replaced him on the injured list.... Will Perdue made the most of his playing time in the first half, scoring 10 points and grabbing seven rebounds in 10 minutes for the Spurs. He finished with 13 points.... The officials called 54 personals and five technicals. 
PowerBook" 5300csl100 StyleWriter 1200 
81500MB, PowerPC technology 
With its compact size, it fits Gives you flexibility that other note­almost anywhere.books still try to imitate. Flexibility Making it easy to move that gives you multimedia like you've wherever you want to never experienced before, easy go. And with its outstand­
ao:ess to the Net and cross-platform ing printing quality, it · . compatibility. And flexibility to do makes your work look For more information t'isil us on the In/erne/ a/ hlip.l!hedmfo.apple.coml 
· all that, wherever you are. amazing. 

BOOKSTORE XXV ABSOLUTE LAST CHANCE!! SIGN-UPS Today 11-4 P.M.
Price: $13.00 
in Lafortune 
The Observer/Mike Ruma 

Renaldo Wynn (left) and Models Inc. II are hoping to repeat as Bookstore Basketball champs. Last chance sign-ups are today. 
•10 years later• Happy 19TH Birthday, Andrew! 
Love, 
M,D,A, Q, &FE 

Look, if you think a talking stuffed moose Is pretty amazing, listen to this. I was hanging out with some of the boys the other evening. One of them just bought a new Macintosh: Evidently, Apple is offering incredibly low campus prices on Macintosh computers right now. So he pops in this CD·ROM. Man, you wouldn't believe what this thing could do. No wonder the Mac· is one of the most advanced multimedia computers. We're talking sight, sound, full-motion video-the works. Gee, wish I could move like that. 
Now's a great time to pack a Mac: 
Notre Dame Computer Store 
/ 
Room 112 CCMB · 631-7477 M-F9am-Spm 
Offers shoum abm~ expire May 15, 1996. Seeyour ctJmpus storefor de/ails about/be Apple Computer Loan. ©1996Apple Computer, Inc. All rights resen-ed. Apple, the Apple logo, LoserWriler, Macintosh, Performa, Pou•erBook and S!yleWri/er are registered trademarks ofApple Compuler, Inc. Mac and Pou'CI' Alae are trademarks ofA/1(!/e Computer. Inc. Pou'CI'PC is a trademark ofln/ernaJiona/ Business Machines Corpora/ion, used under license therefrom. All Macintosh computers are designed Ia be accessible lo indil'iduals u•Uh disability. 7b learn more (U.S. only), ca/1800-600-7808 or TTY 800-755-0601. 
Monday, March 25, 1996 
Climb 
continued from page 20 
with somn intimidating eheering. Hall, who played at the top spot, quiekly silenced the erowd. She manhandled her opponent, 6-2, 6-1. 
Lord, Velasco. and Gowen all fell behind in tlwir singlns matches, but all rallied back. According to Louderback, this was the key to the Irish ovnrall victory. 
"Lord, Velasco, and Gowen all fell behind early in thnir first snts, but they all rallied baek. This 
The Observer • SPORTS 
was the key for us because these were all big matches. By them rallying, there were no three­set matches." 
At the No. 6 spot, Olson dominated her oppo­nent. She also won in straight sets, 6-3, 6-1. 
"Basically I came to the net. I put the pressure on, and then captured the points," stated Olson about her victory. 
In the end, the Irish posted an impressive victo­ry over the Wolverines, 6-1, and are looking to move up in the rankings. The team is off for the week, but they are already looking ahead to their next victim, the Georgia Bulldogs. The Irish are set to faee them next Saturday at Georgia. 
Irish 
continued from page 20 
base. Then Tracee Agee sent a line shot out to left field to tie the game and earn the HBI. 
By the time the Irish had made two outs. the bases were loaded. But the defense stayed focused. leaving the IU runners stranded on base and into extra innings. 
The Observer/Brandon Candura 

"We put our hearts into it at
Junior Erin Gowen won at both No.5 singles and No.2 doubles as the Irish improved to 14-2 on the year. 
the end," Irish catcher Kristina 
~ ~.. . . . .... . . . . . . . . . .. . . . .. . . . . . . . .. . ... . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . 
Arts & Letters Departmental Follow-Up Sessions 
As a follow-up to the Major Fair, the departments listed below are holding informational meetings for prospective majors. If you are thinking of majoring in one of these departments, please make every effort to attend. 
Monda}l. March 25 
PSYCHOLOGY EDUCATION ENGLISH ALPP (Pre-Professional) CAPP (Computer Applications) COMMUNICATION & THEATRE 
ANTHI~OPOLOGY 
Tuesday. March 26 
ROMANCE LANGUAGES ECONOMICS GOVERNMENT 
4:00p.m.  117 Haggar Hall  
5:00p.m.  114 O'Shaughnessy  
5:00p.m.  203 O'Shaughnessy  
5:30p.m.  114 O'Shaughnessy  
6:00p.m.  114 O'Shaughnessy  
6:30p.m.  114 O'Shaughnessy  
7:30p.m.  204 O'Shaughnessy  
4:30 P.M.  118 O'Shaughnessy  
7:00p.m.  118 O'Shaughnessy  
7:00 p.m.  203 O'Shaughnessy  

\........................................................../ 
for: 

'l'he Assocllatllon of Colleae Unllons-lnternatllonal Reallonal Conference occurrllns on the Notre Dame campus lin NoYember I 001 sponsored by the OHIIce of Student ActiiYIItlles 
Rules and Regulations 
• 
Must contain and maintain the theme "Discover Gold" 

• 
Other pertinent information: ACU-1 Region 9Conference November 7-9 1997 University of Notre Dame 

• 
The design must be two-dimensional 

• 
Any medium may be used, i.e. watercolor, colored pencil, charcoal, etc. 

• 
The design should be in color. 

• 
The design must be contained within a 8 1/2 XII inch piece of paper. 

• 
The design must be adaptable for use in various formats, i.e. T-shirts, stationary, signs, promotional items, etc. 

• 
Deadline for all entries is 1:00 Ptl on April 4, 1996, at the Student Activities Office. 

• 
The selected logo design will become the property of ACU-1 and the University of Notre Dame. 



More information is available from the Office of Student Activities, 3 I 5 LaFortune Student Center. 
The participants in the 15TH Annual Notre Dame Invitational MBA Case Competition 

: 

The University of Texas at Austin Duke University Georgetown University The Ohio State University University of Notre Dame 


McCleary said. "The hearts take over more than the skills. We stayed together and lis­tened to our captains. They told us to go out there and get our hits." 
After pitching 14 innings straight, Ugo was unable to go into the extra-inning battle, and was replaced by Trina Valencia. 
It's not hard to figure out," Stephenson said. "We either throw Gina on the mound or we lose. But I knew going into the game that I was only going to play her 14 innings.
•

• A lead-off hit from McCleary
•

• was followed by doubles from
• 

Dawn Cunningham and Kara
! 

: McMahon in the eighth-inning for an Irish lead. Designated
• 

hitter Meghan Murray hit a 
sacrifice-fly to send McMahon home. making the score 4-1. 
"The pitcher change gave us power mentally," Miller ex­plained. 
"[UgoJ is a really good pitch­er, she throws hard and is one of the best pitchers we face all year, so when they pulled her out we used it to our advan­tage." 
But the battle was far from over. IU hammered four straight hits into the outfield, for a score of 4-3. 
Miller approached the mound with two runners still threaten­ing to counsel her pitcher. 
"When Coach came out and talked to us, it really gave me confidence," Bessolo said. "It's good for a pitcher to know that it isn't up to her to make the out. You have eight people be­hind you that can help you." 
Confident, Bessolo struck out Hoosier Jamie Thedford for the second out. 
"I had a relaxed feeling about my change-ups because I've been working on them," Bessolo said. "The coach called the sign for a change-up and Kris [McCleary) put her glove down low. She did a good job with her placing, because I threw it right in." 
The Irish easily put away the next batter for the win. 
"We knew IU would keep coming at us," Miller com­mented. "They're a great ball team and they don't give up. So we decided before the game that we would keep coming back no matter what." 
No Lengthy Classes No High CPA Review Tuitions Renowned Products 
at a Great Price CPA Review Books & Software To order call: 
1-800-CPA-3511 
DAUBERMAN 
CHAYKIN 
I 
I 
..j 
I 
I 
I 
I l 
I 
I
• I 
1 
I 
l 
I l l 
j 
I 
I I 
I 
I 
I 
" lI 
l 
I 
l 
I I 
I 
I I I I I I I I I I I I I I 
I I
• 
I page 18 The Observer • SPORTS Monday, March 25, 1996 
l 
f­
~ 
r 
I 
I 
I 
I t I 
Il ~ 
• SPORTS BRIEFS 
ARCHERY CLINIC RecSports will be sponsoring an Archery Clinic on Tuesday and Wednesday March 26 & 27 from 7-9 
p.m. 
All equipment will he provided and the fee for the class is $8. Class size is lim­ited and you must register in advance at RecSports. 

HOOPS SHOOT OUT ~ RecSports will be sponsoring a Hoop Shoot Out on Wednesday, March 27, at 7 

p.m. 
in the Joyce Center Arena. The Shoot Out will consist of a One-on-One con­test, a Three Point contest and a Free Throw contest. Advance registration in the RecSports office is required and the deadline is Tuesday, March 26. There is no fee for this event. For more information, call1-6100. 


BOWLING LEAGUE RecSports will be sponsoring a Bowling League on Thursday nights from March 28-May 2. Register your three-person team in advance at RecSports. Cost is $6 per week per person and includes three games and shoe rental. Play is held at Chippewa Bowl and transportation is not provid­ed. Deadline to register is Wednesday, March 27. Captain's meeting is sched­uled for March 27, at 6:15 
p.m. in the RecSports office. Call1-6100. 
WEEKEND RACQUET­BALL TOURNEY • This tournament will he on Saturday, March 30, and Sunday, March 31. There will he men's and women's divisions with t-shirts being awarded to all participants. Bring your own racquet, but racquetballs will he provid­ed. Refreshments will be served. Register in advance in the RecSports office by Thursday, March 28 and there is a $6 fee. For more information, call1-6100. 
CHRISTMAS IN APRIL BENEFIT RUN • March 30 is the date for this 5K or 10K run, and 2 mile walk. The run begins at 11 a.m. with the start/finish being at the Rockne Memorial. There will he six divisions for each run with trophies being awarded to the top finisher in each division. All regis­trants will he awarded a t­shirt. The cost of the run is $5 in advance and $6 the day of the event. Proceeds will he donated to Christmas in April. Family members need to complete the stan­dard registration and in­surance waiver and all minors need to have their parent or guardian sign the waiver for them. All regis­tration/waiver forms can he obtained in the RecSports office and both will also be available at the event. 
HousE FOR RENT 
'96-'97 
•5 
Bedrooms •Furnished •Washer/Dryer 

•Security 
System 


Call Pat McKelvey at 258-9996 
• Stmn MARY'S TENNIS 

Belles rise to occasion in home opener 
By STEPHANIE BUEK 
Saim Mary's Sporrs Editor 

March Madness and sunny spring weath­er made it tough to get court time on either campus this weekend. 
However, the Saint Mary's College tennis team owned a court of a different type at Eck Pavillion Saturday, sweeping Calvin College 9-0 in the home opener of their spring season. 
Though Saint Mary's made it look easy, the Belles' 9-0 victory did have its setbacks. Because a week of illness sidelined junior Nancy Sorota, #2 singles player, the entire team advanced one position to pick up the slack. 
The shift in personnel gave two fresh· men, Betsy Gemmer and Morey Graham, the opportunity to prove their skills at the #5 and #6 spots, respectively. According to Head Coach Katie Cromer, Saint Mary's not only played a solid match, hut stepped up as a team in the face of adversity. 
"(Calvin) looked really good warming up," Cromer said. "I wasn't expecting to do this well with the #2 singles out, and with two freshmen moving up, hut every­one really rose to the occasion. (The team) did a great job." 
Sorota agreed that the versatility in the 
Lax 
continued from page 20 

served notice that this was going to be a long day. 
"Definitely, we wanted to [start out quickly]." explained Reid. "We did not want to give them any inclination that they were going to come out and beat us." 
The second quarter differed very little from the first. Thirty-one seconds into the period, Burke Hayes' goal off of Reid's assist added to the Irish lead. Shortly thereafter. at the 
10:31 mark, Dusseau added his second goal to finish out the second period scoring. These individual positions of the Belles' lineup established a foundation for the team's success. Though Sorota did not play sin­gles, she remained on the roster to play #1 doubles with junior Kate Kozacik. 
Winning their match 9-8 (7-0), Sorota said knowing that her teammates won in singles play made doubles play easier. 
"Calvin had a lot of hard-hitting players," Sorota said. "But we played consistently. We didn't let them pull us into their game. We had total confidence in everyone. (The freshmen) got a chance to play and they showed they could handle it. Everyone stepped up really well." 
Stepping up has become a common call for the Belles. Since freshman Amy Fors, #6 singles, dislocated her shoulder during the Hilton Head match over spring break, the team has had to re-establish a #6 spot, as well as a solid #3 doubles position. 
When Sorota returns to full and complete health, Cromer expects Gemmer to become the regular #6. Fors is out for the season. 
Kozacik feels that Gemmer will definitely he a factor in solidifying the Belles' lineup. 
"(Gemmer) is a very aggressive player. She's always willing to be coached, and she works very hard to improve her game," Kozacik said. 
While Gemmer moved up to the five spot, Graham broke into the top six singles for the first time as well. 
Accustomed to filling in at the #3 doubles position, Graham said that encouragement from her more experienced teammates made her transition into the top six singles a much more comfortable one. 
"At first when my coach told me I was playing six, I was a little worried," Graham said. "But everyone on the team was really supportive, and that helped me through it. We spent a lot of time together at Hilton Head over spring break, and I think that has made us closer as a team." 
With five days to prepare, the Belles now look forward to having everyone healthy for yet another road trip. Saint Mary's travels to Saint Louis Friday for weekend contests against Washington University and Augustana College. 
After the fall season, Saint Mary's is ranked #4 in the Midwest Region and #16 in the nation. According to players, these will he very important matches in terms of advancing the team's ranking. 
"It's really different for us to travel so far for just a match," Kozacik said. "We go to Hilton Head and to the Midwest Invitational, but this is something that we haven't done in the past. I'm very nervous, hut it's a good reflection on our program." 
Happy Birthday, Loving Lion! 
The 5 to 5.13+ climbs of life all done with style, care, and perseverance for 22 years. Thanks for letting us come along on your fantastic journey. This world is a better place because of you, Greg! Keep on climbing! 
WLYMMMMMM! 

Dad, Mom, and Allison 
ARCHERY Mini .. Co;urse 
Tuesday &Wednesday March 26 &27 7:00-9:00 PM Joyce Center -Gym 1 
All Equipment Will be Provided 
Class Size is Limited Registerin Advance atRecSporls $8.00Fee 
fo?~~ 
two goals gave the Irish a 6-1 halftime lead. 
The Hayes score was the he­ginning of another 4-0 run by the Irish that culminated in a Dusseau goal with 6:27 left in the third period. 
With the score now 8-1, the Bulldogs tried to make a second half run. Following their pat­tern for the game, their attempt to save face, like everything else on Saturday, was not suc­cessful. They could only muster two second half goals, one in each quarter, against goalie Alex Cade and the Irish d(lfense. Cade played all sixty minutes and had twelve saves. 
The Irish, on the other hand, lit up the scoreboard for five more goals in the second half, finishing the scoring with 11-3 in favor of the good guys. 

One of the most encouraging signs of the early season is the play of freshman Dusseau, whose four goals came on the heels of another four-goal per· formance against Air Force last week. "I just happen to be the one scoring," said Dusseau. "My teammates are the ones that set everything up." 
The play of Reid and Dusseau shows the Irish are following the advice of Coach Corrigan. who says that they must make the big plays to win the big games. 
Says Reid, "We came out and did what we had to do." 
Lax Notes: Junior attacker Will DeRiso did not play Saturday against Butler because of an ankle injury. Although the injury doesn't ap­pear to he too serious, he will likely he out for 2-3 weeks. 


What will you do after graduation? 
Why not help us change lives? 
We care for young children who are abused, neglected, or HIV+. You can help. 
P.O. Box 66581 
Houston, TX 77226-6581 
Voice (713)529-0639

casa Fax (713)529-9179 
de esperonza 

Applications accepted year 'round. Room/Board/Stipend/Health Insurance. CPR/First Aid certification and training provided. 
FOUR FOOD GROUPS OF THE APOCALYPSE 

MISTER l\OFFO 
... SHOULD WE RI-SK A LAWSUIT OR BUILD A A PROOUCT THAT NOBOO'< ON O.RTH 
WANTS~ 
\ 
57 Words of comprehension 58 Group with roles to play 58 Bakery byproduct eo Soaks, as flax 81 Ogles 
82Wayne-­(Batman's home) 
DOWN 
1 Close 2 Color quality 3Job hazard 
regulator: Abbr. 4 500 sheets 
5"-­
overboard I" eA. J. Reynolds brand 
7 War deity a Gun, as an engine 

DAVE KELLETT YOUR HOROSCOPE JEANE DIXON 
HAPPY HIRTHDAY! IN THE NEXT YEAR OF YOUR LIFE: Success comes when you learn to separate the real from the phony. Get more rest and your productivity will rise. Summer brings romance, and perhaps, a long-distance move. A timely investment produces hoped-for results. Education is the key to a brighter future. Children begin to make positive contributions to family life. Nurture relationships that have been rewarding for you in the past. There is no need to shed old friends when making new ones. 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: singing legend Aretha Franklin, writer Gloria Steinem, rocker Elton John, figure skater Debi Thomas. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Do not be shy about taking on a leader­ship role at work. A lucrative­sounding offer merits further inves­
E 
,E 
tigation. A neighbor may intrude on 
@ 
your privacy, making you feel
i 
uncomfortable. TAURUS (April 20-May 20): A 
,0 

2 
new beginning makes you feel more optimistic about the future. A small gift from an old friend holds great significance. This person cares for you deeply but may not be good at verbalizing affection. 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Be kind, but refuse to let others impose on you. Set limits on what you are willing to do. A speculative venture finally gets off the ground. Keep your fingers crossed! 

SCOTT ADAMS 
CANCER (June 21-July 2?1: The business outlook is favoratlie for making investments. Buy or sell real estate, jewelry or heirlooms. Someone you meet today for the first time may stick like glue if given the slightest encouragement. 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): A good day to purchase things to improve 
LET'S DO BOTH! 
• OF INTEREST 


your home. Look for items on sale. 
A generous host, you sometimes 
wish that your guests were better 
about reciprocating. 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-SepL 22): 

Donating time and .effort to a charity 
campaign or community project will 
prove very fulfilling. A hobby may 
have commercial potential. Consult 
marketing specialists after getting a 
copyright or patent on your ideas. 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): A good day for financial moves of almost any kind. The purchase or sale of real estate should go well. Seek legal assistance when needed. Romantic opportunities abound; you feel highly desirable! 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov, 21): Work will help you recover from a personal disappointment. Tend to unfinished business before launching a major new ,project. Friends prove their loyalty in wonderful ways. 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21 ): Feel your creative power! Oth­ers sense that you are on the right track and want to ;h.tre your good fortune. Only give to the deserving. Your heart opens to someone new. 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Put your best foot forward at work. Go ahead and express admira· tion for someone's achievement. Ignoring a recent triumph could cre­ate bruised feelings. 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): You have more charisma than you think. Talk to new acquaintances with quiet confidence. Someone you meet today could play a major role in your future. 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): A sarcastic remark could turn off a potential ally. Avoid sounding bit­ter. Loved ones need to know they can always count on you. Keeping your distance from an irritating co­worker will avert a confrontation . 

BUT OUR PRIM.t>.RY VENDOR CAN'T DELIVER, 50 .. , 
) 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 31 --out? (pet's choice)
1 Tempest 32 Baden-Baden8 Ace of spades, and Ems 
e.g. 
38 Frequent10 Potatoes' subtitle in silent partner movies 14 Prophet after 39 Feeling insulted Daniel 40 Prefix with legal 15 Region or medic 18 "--Ia Douce" 41 Laughing17 Heroine's cry in 42 Christmas

silent movies 20 Plow animals 
43 Flings 

21 "Absolutely!" 44 Punctual 22 Grand pursuits 47 Saying 23 Dover's state: 48 House's 
Abbr. counterpart 24 Actress 48 Sum total 
Hepburn so"--itthe 25 Inebriated truth?" H Author Wiesel 54 They killed 30 Painter's stand silent movies 
--------------• ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE: 

"' 
8 
~ 
"' ~ 
.. ~ 
~ 
:;: 

•Rajeev Bhargava. Associate Professor at the Center for Political Studies at JawaharLal Nehru University and visiting lecturer from Harvard Divinity School will speak on "What is (Indian} Secularism Good For?" The event. co-sponsored by the Government Department, will begin at 4 p.m. in 
Seminar Room C-103 in the Hesburgh Center for International Studies. 
•vvonne Yarbro-Bejarano with Laur Aguilara 
will partake in a dialogue, "Laying it Bare: The Queer/Colored Body in Photography," tonight at 4:15 
p.m. in room 141 DeBartolo. 
•Asian Cultural Night, sponsored by the Asian American Association, includes a slide show on 
Indonesian textiles and an Indian dance performance. It will take place tonight at 7 p.m. in 141 DeBartolo. 
•Asian Heritage Week. Look out for events this 
whole week as part of Asian American Association's Third Annual Asian Heritage Week. 
•MENU 
Notre Dame 
North Philly Steak Sandwich Shrimp Spaghetti Vegetable Plate 
Saint Mary's 
Chicken Diablo Meat Hall Stroganoft' 

South Chicken in the Pot Beef Turnovers Baked Chicken Parmesan 

8 Blender-mixed cocktail 10 Distance 
runner 11 Wipeout 12 Friendship 
13 Makes leather 18 Artificially blonde, say 18 Illicit drug, in 
slang 23 Wooded valley 24 Shalom in 
Honolulu 25 Genesis son 28 Honolulu's site 
27 Employer 28Aug.-Oct. 
divider 28--nous 31 Country on a 

continental tour 32 Takes to the slopes 33 Stew vegetables 34 Prince 
Charles's sister 35 Fast planes 37 Conspicuous 
wealth 38 Brag 42 Abominable 

Snowman 43 Baby powder 44 Taunt 45Shore 
recess 48 Auto brands 47 Small cuts 48Agitate 49 Church nook 50 Surrounding 
glow 51 De-wrinkle 52 Verne captain 53 Nicholas, e.g. 55 Like old Paree 58 Highlands hat 
Mediterranean Pasta Station 
Get answers to any three clues 
by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420· 5656 (75¢ each minute). 
tffie Prank O'Ma{{ey 'Unier8raduate tfeacfiina ~ward 
Nominations for the o·Malley Award are now being accepted. Please submit your written nomination to the Student Government Office as soon as possible. 
SIJOIUOI'8fl by Stuclat Govemmat &IJd the Alum4f Aaodatlcm. 


• 
1 
l 

.. 
-.. 
SPORTS 

• 
By TIM MCCONNNotre Dame does Sports Writer 

its talking on field The Butler Bulldogs may 
know how to talk the talk. Inwith 11-3 victory this case, however, the Notre 

Junior midfielder Tony Reid, one of Notre Dame's scoring threats, added two more goals to his season total when the Irish beat Butler. 

Lacrosse 

at Hobart Saturday, March 30 
Softball 

vs. Michigan Wed. March 27, 2 p.m. 
Baseball 

vs. Wisconsin-Milwaukee 
Tues. March 26, 4 p.m. 
Mo March 25, 1996 
• SOfTBAll 

Notre Dame cruises past Indiana in double header 
By CAROLINE BLUM Hoosier errors. Saint Mary's News Editor "We had a big defensive problem," Indiana coach Diane 
A strong defense, an abun­Stephenson said. You can't dance of errors, and eleventh­have four errors and no hits in inning power led the Irish (18-an inning and expect to win the 
10) to a pair of victories, 4-0 game." and 4-3, in their home opener Pitcher Terri Kobata received Sunday over Indiana the well-deserved win with University. nine strikeouts and no walks. 
The first game remained Kobata's record now stands at scoreless until the seventh in­an impressive 9-1. ning, when the Hoosiers (19-The Hoosiers don't like to 
11) mishandled the ball four make the same mistake twice. times which led to four errors With the score tied 0-0 in the and four Notre Dame runs. seventh-inning of the second 
After pitcher Gina Ugo game, IU grew fierce as they walked the first batter, the watched Kelly Nichols send Hoosiers' errors loaded the teammate Liz Perkins home on bases. A single by Meghan a sacrifice fly. Murray drove home Kelly lU made the third out and Nichols and Kara McMahon, prepared for offensive rewmge. and another from Jenna Errors by the Irish this time Knudson sent home Jen gave Hoosier Ashley Giampaolo. Knudson received Montgomery a ride to third her trip home after more 
see IRISH I page 17 

Dame Lacrosse team was the one walking the victorious walk. 
Led by freshman Chris Dusseau's four goals. the Irish defeated Butler in resounding fashion 11-3, improving their record to 4-1 overall and 2-0 in Great Western Lacrosse Le.ague play. 
Coming off possibly the two most significant victories in school history, the Bulldogs were feeling a tad bit overcon­fident. Such an emotional ef­fect did those wins over Rutgers and Deleware have on 
Holyn Lord's win at Michigan helped the Irish retain their #6 ranking. 
them, in fact, that they decided to talk a little trash when they stepped on the field Saturday. 
"Before the game, [Notre 
Irish continue to climb 
Dame] Coach [Kevin Corrigan] reminded us that they're only a five-year old program," said 
with win over Wolverines junior midfielder Tony Reid. "This was the biggest game of 
By KATHLEEN LOPEZ consisting of seniors Wendynot just th.eir year. but of their Sports Writer Crabtree and Holyn Lord, lost a 
program, so we knew it was hard fought match togoing to be a very emotional The Irish have slowly inched Michigan's Sarah Cyganiak andgame for them." 
their way up to the top, and Sora Moon. 8-9.
While the Butler squad al­they are still looking to climb "It was a tight match, and inlowed their emotions to get the higher. The No. 6 women's the end it went down to a tie­best of them by engaging in tennis team posted another vic­breaker, but they just could notthese childish, unsportsman­tory this weekend. The Irish put it away." stated head coachlike actions, the Irish felt the defeated long-time rival, Michi­Jay Louderback, "We justneed to cut it short. 
gan, and improved their record weren't fired up."
Very short. 

to 14-2. The second-ranked doublesNotre Dame jumped out of "We did really well overall," team. consisting of junior Erinthe gates quickly. By the time stated sophomore Kelley Olson. Gowen and freshman Jenniferthe Bulldogs knew what had "Now that we are ranked sixth. Hall. were the only victorioushit them, the Irish had built an I think that there is more pres­pair. Gowen and Hall silenced
insurmountable 4-0 lead 
sure. We definitely have to their Wolverine opponents, 8-1. 
behind Reid's two goals. 
work harder now than we used After the slow start, the IrishAlthough Bulter's Tim Whipple to." bounced back with some im­finally gave the Bulldogs a The netters started out slowly pressive singles play. Accord­
score before the end of the 
in their doubles competition. ing to Louderback, the Michi­first quarter, No.tre Dame had They lost the doubles point to gan fans made their presence 
the strong Wolverines' doubles 
see LAX I page 18 
play. The No. 1 doubles team, 
see CLIMB I page 17 
• Saint Mary's Tennis shuts out Calvin Men's Tennis 
see page 18 at Indiana Sun. March 31 

Women's Tennis 
• SU, MSU complete Final Four puzzle at Georgia Fri. March 29 see page 15 
Track • Final Four bracket 
at Purdue Invite Sat. March 30 
see page 13 






