
Friday, February 23, 1996• Vol. XXVII No. 96 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Creating a vi.rtual reality 
Software designed by ND engineers will increase freedom of the disabled 
By JOHN GALVIN News Writer 
Would you like to ny across campus with a 

blink of your eye? Or how about dial a 
phone number with a twitch of your nose? 
It may seem a little far-fetched, but the 

College of Engim~ering at Notre Dame, in 
conjunction with the department of 
Computer Science and Engineering, are 
researching and developing a Virtual Real­
ity-Human Interface to allow just about any­
one to maneuver in th·e virtual world. 
Beyond the video games and fancy soft­

ware, virtual reality has the potential to free 
millions of people from the limitation of 
handicaps. 
Whether they suffer from a broken ankle 

or a severe neurological disorder, the com­
puter will allow anyone to live independent­
ly. Hecent technology has made available 
sensors which. when applied to the body can 
act us a hund or foot in the virtual world. 
"The idea", explains Notre Dame professor 

Dr. B1~ery, " is to create a 3-D virtual 
environment that the handicapped person 
can maneuver around in with similar free­
dom that a natural person would have walk­
ing around in a n~al environment." 
The research team is led by Drs. Beery and 

Uhran, who overlook about eighteen grad­
uate and undergraduate students involved in 
the virtual reality development. A Notre 
Dame graduate, Dawn Parkot, is doing her 
thesis work on this project. 
She has severe cerebral palsy and is sub­

stantially disabled. Having extremely limit­
ed musele control and acute vision and 
speech impairments, she acts as both a 
researehAr and a tester for the human-inter­
face device. 
Parkot's motivation and ability intrigued 

not only Notre Dame faculty but also IBM to 
provide funds for computers and software 
that ~~ottld make her achievemnnts more 
attainahln for others with similar obstacles. 
"What makes Dawn special." explained Dr. 

Bt~rry, " is that she managed to get through 
tlw systmn and gel an education, most peo­
pln in her eireumstance get frustrated and 
see SOFTWARE/ page 4 




Montoya receives honor of passing the Olympic torch 
By KRISTI KOLSKI Assistant News Editor 
Traditionally, Alex Montoya would not be Qr'·0,('
considered an all-cvv American guy. He is 
originally from AtJanfa 1996 
Colombia, and he has 
a physical disability.________________. 
that forces him to use prosthetics on both arms and one leg. 
But the Notre Dame senior embodies the American spirit so much that he has been selected to carry the Olympic torch for one stretch of the cross-country tour. 
The St. Edward's Hall resident is one of 5,500 people 
see TORCH/ page 6 


SMC hosts annual parents weekend 
By RACHEL TORRES 
Accent Copy Editor 
Today marks the start of another Sophomore Parents Weekend at Saint Mary's College. The weekend offi­cially kicks off at registration which will take place from 3-6 p.m. in the Haggar College Center. 
"Merry Times, Magical Memories," this year's theme for the weekend, will include tours, perfor­mances, and other social events for the sophomores and their parents. 
The student per­
Saint Mary's College Sophomore Parent's Weekend 
Schedule or Events 
Friday, February 23 3-6 p.m. Registration­Haggar College Center 8 p.m. 'Agnes of God'-Little Theatre 
Saturday, February 24 10 a.m.-12 p.m. Academic open house-LeMons lobby . I p.m. Group tour-College Football Hall of Fume 
4:30 p.m. Mass-Church of the Loretto 6 p.m. Social Hour-Century Center 7 p.m. Dinner-Century Center 
9:30 p.m.-1 a.m. Dance-Century Center 
Sunday, February 25 8-11 a.m. Continenlal Break.fast­Staoleton Loumte 

formance of 'Agnes of God' is one of the main attrac­tions of the weekend and will take place at 8 p.m. in 
see WEEKEND/ page 6 

SMC policies acknowledge rights of smokers 
He/itor's Note: This is the first in a three part series exploriny the use of tobacco at .'iaint lHary 's Colt eye. Today 's arti­cle examines the results of a surt•ey gillen to 200 SMC stu­dents which questioned their smoking preferences. 
By PATTI CARSON SJinr lvl.ory'; E.liwr 
"Bneuuse it relaxes nw when I'm strnssml out." 
That was the most common answnr given by 200 Saint Mary's women in an anony­mous smoking qtwstionnaire yeslt~rday when they were asknd, "Why do you smoke'?" 
Sixty-seven percent of the womfHl poll11d have smoked a tobaeeo product all(! 33 per­cent have never smoked a cig­arettt~. according to the poll. 
Interestingly enough, howev­er, only 38 pereent of those polled consider themselves "smokers" and will smoke alone. 
And when asked, "flow many 
Tobacco & Its Effects 
Part 1 of3 
eigarettes do you smokfl per day," the answers of smokers varied from two to eighteen cigarettes per day. The remaining (>2 percent stated that they either "do not smoke" or consider themselves only "social smokers." 
But the Saint Mary's Dining Hall considers this 38 percent in its planning. A smoking section currently exists to accommodate this minority. 
"Nearly every year, a student will fill out a comment card or take some kind of action to re­move the smoking section from the dining hall, or at least to move it to an enclosed area, " said Residence Hall Association (HilA) Dining Hall Chairwoman Karen Murphy. "But so far no action has been taken to carry out any of their plans," Murphy added. 
And the dining hall is not the only place to take smokers' rights into consideration. Ac­cording to the college hand­book, "Smoking is permitted in individual student rooms (with transom closed) if it is agreed upon by all roommates. Smoking is also permitted in the vending areas of each resi­dence hall. Smoking is prohib­ited in all other public areas of the residence halls. " 
Only three lloors of the four campus dormitories are desig­nated as non-smoking lloors. They are the second lloors of Regina North and Regina South, as well as the first noor of Holy Cross Hall. 
But those who do not smoke also have rights, as many made clear on the survey. One woman stated, "I find smokers inconsiderate and selfish, in­cluding my own mother." 
Another student wrote, "Our parents may not have known 
see TOBACCO/ page 4 


page 2 The Observer • INSIDE Friday, February 23, 1996 

• INSIDE COI..UMN 

A sacrifice: 
Nota 


theme night 
When it comes time to check the box under the category 'Religion,' 85 percent of Notre Dame students choose 'Catholic.' A good chunk of that 85 percent prac­tice their faith. 
Out of those who describe themselves as Catholic, many attend mass regularly. Others have more time and energy to devote to volunteer work. It's only natural; no two people are exactly the same. Different people have different needs and dif­ferent ideas about what their religion means to them. And different people celebrate differ­ent holidays-religious or otherwise-in dif­ferent ways. 
For example, Wednesday was Ash Wednesday, the beginning of the Lenten sea­son. And as will quickly become apparent when students attempt to eat lunch today, today is the first Friday in Lent. The dining halls will celebrate this occasion with students by eliminating any and all forms of meat from the menus. It's part two in a continuing series known to some as "Forty Days During Which Notre Dame Food Services Has Lots Of Excuses To Have Fun With Fish and Cheese" and to others "You Will Not Eat Meat Today. You Have No Choice." 
During Lent, most Catholics make a con­scious effort to sacrifice something that they really enjoy or have a bad habit of doing. In addition, Catholics are collectively asked to make a conscious decision to eliminate meat from their diets on Lenten Fridays. 
But if it's not a conscious decision-if it's not a choice voluntarily made in the spirit of the season-is it a sacrifice? Or is it Notre Dame Food Services (possibly at the direction of other departments) deciding that on-campus students will not eat meat today? The simple fact is, if the meat's not there, students can't eat it and everyone is forced to observe Lent, practicing Catholic or not. 
It's quite obvious and understandable that a Catholic university such as The University of Notre Dame would want to promote faith and belief. But promotion and force-feeding are two very different things. Allowing students the option of ham and turkey in the deli lines on Lenten Fridays should not infringe on one's practicing of faith. During such Fridays, most would understand if the dining halls offered a limited amount of meat-oriented menu selec­tions. Eating meat on Fridays does not make you a bad person. 
The numbers show that 15 percent of the student body does not describe themselves as Catholic. It would not be a surprise to learn that a good percentage of self-described Catholics on this campus do not practice their faith actively. Why then must meat be com­pletely eliminated from the dining hall menus during Lent? Ash Wednesday is not a theme night. Unfortunately, by creating menus spe­cific to an occasion that virtually deny a stu­dent the ability to decide for or against meat in their diet. the dining halls have created just such an atmosphere. 
Students should be allowed meat as an 
option when choosing their meals. Simply put, 
if it's not a choice it's not a sacrifice . 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Obser11er. 


News Accent Jamie Heisler Joey Crawford Jason Dorwart 
Production Sports Melissa DeRosa Brian Reinrhaler 
Jackie Moser Jim Belden 
Lab Tech 

• WoRto AT A Guwc~: 
Gambling goes after states' approval with big money 
ST. LOUIS 
After failing in its first attempt to legalize slot machines on Missouri riverboats, the gambling industry took no chances and spared no expense. 
Following a pattern that has been repeat­ed across the country, it hired the chief strategist for the state's most visible politi­cian, then-House Majority Leader Dick Gephardt, paying her company $218,750 to help win passage of the 1994 referendum. Gephardt himself got a $50,000 donation for his state political action committee. 
An additional $10,000 hired private inves­tigators to probe the background of a con­servative St. Louis businessman leading the opposition, and to plant leaks tying him to right-wing extremist David Duke. 
And more than $50,000 was routed to Freedom Inc., a black inner-city political machine in Kansas City, to register voters and head off potential opposition from churches. Even campaign insiders had mis­givings. "This is dirty,'' was scrawled on an internal campaign memo outlining the pay­ments to Freedom Inc. 
After pouring $11.5 million into the effort, the coalition including some of the nation's most recognizable ·gambling interests ­Hilton, Players and Promus -had the majority it needed. AP 

Farrakhan faces scrutiny upon return 
WASHINGTON 
Nation of Islam leader Louis Farrakhan's passport will be examined for entry and exit stamps from Iraq and Libya when he returns to the United States, a State Department official said Thursday. Farrakhan and his dele­gation are. due to return to Chicago on Saturday. He plans to deliver a major address Sunday at the University of Illi­

nois. State Department spokesman Nicholas Burns said: "if they do find those stamps, they will turn those pass­ports over to the proper authorities; In this case, the Jus­tice Department for a review of whether or not U.S. laws were violated." It is not clear whether any punitive action could be taken against him. The Justice Department's criminal division already has sent Farrakhan a letter advisong him he may have to register with the U.S. government as a Libyan agent, department officials have said. 
Alexander attacks GOP front-runners 
TAMPA, Fla. 
Lamar Alexander today accused Bob Dole of "ducking the contest of ideas" by avoiding a Republican presiden­tial candidates' forum in Arizona as the race heats up with a flurry of primaries. "This is going to be a roller coaster ride for the next few weeks until we get to Florida on March 12," Alexander said as he made a quick stop in Tampa before heading west. The former Tennessee governor was set to appear tonight with pub~ lisher Steve Forbes and Pat Buchanan in the Arizona candidates forum ahead of the state's Tuesday primary. Sen. Bob Dole, who finished behind Buchanan and ahead of Alexander in New Hampshire's primary, didn't plan to be there. ''I'm going to Arizona for a contest of ideas,'' Alexander said. "Senator Dole is ducking the contest of ideas." As for Buchanan, Alexander said he planned to hit the commentator hard on his protectionist trade views, which Alexander dubbed "Buchananism." 

Killer says he's at peace prior to death 
SAN FRANCISCO 

The man scheduled to be put to death early Friday for killing 14 young men says he's "made peace with it" and is even able to joke with the warden as the execution ap­proaches. But "Freeway Killer" William Bonin figu.res he might be nervous as 12:01 a.m. draws nearer. "I think I've accepted the fact that this may come about and I've made my peace with it and if it happens. it happens,'' he said in an interview with KQED-FM. "As far as how I'm going to feel at that very moment, I can't answer that question. I don't know. I don't think any of us would know until we're there." Bonin, convicted of murdering 14 young men and boys in 1979 and 1980. conceded, "I might be nervous tomorrow (Thursday) night." He said there was nothing he could say to victims' families. "I don't think anybody in a situation such as I'm in no mat­ter what they said would help, in any way. I really don't." But he did have some words for those who want to see him die. "They feel that my death will bring closure,'' he said. "But that's not the case. They're going to find out." 
Cardinal hospitalized with blood clot 
PHILADELPHIA 

Cardinal John Krol, retired archbishop of the Archdiocese of Philadelphia, has a blood clot in his left lung and is hospitalized in intensive care. Krol, 85, was in serious but stable condition today at Thomas Jefferson University Hospital. Doctors planned to lower the oxygen level in his respirator today to start weaning him from the device. "His spirits are a little bit subdued,'' said car­diologist Joseph F. Majdan. "He's a very stoic, very accepting man." Majdan expressed "guarded optimism" about Krol's outlook. Admitted after experiencing short­ness of breath, Krol's blood clot was discovered Tuesday, but wasn't related to the shortness of breath, Majdan said "It's a setback for somebody with multiple medical problems," Majdan said. Krol has diabetes and conges­tive heart failure. Krol, named a cardinal in June 1967, retired as archbishop of Philadelphia in 1988 after 27 years leading the nation's sixth-largest archdiocese. 

Friday, Feb. 23 AccuWeather® forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures The AccuWeather® forecast for noon, Friday, Feb. 23. 
Unes separate h1gh t~mperature zones for the day. 

FRONTS: 
"T'"T" ~ ~ 
COLD WARM STATIONARY 
C 1996 AccuWeather, 'nc. 

Pressure 
H L 


HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY 
V~aAssociati!KIPffiSS 
Graphics Dave Murphy Brian Blank 

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday c:xcepr during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are-reserve-d. 
Via Associated Press Graph/csNet C 1996 AccuWeather, Inc. 
Atlanta  68  56  Dallas  75  43  Miami  85  65  
Boston  56  41  Denver  58  22  New Orleans 74  63  
Chicago  48  32  Kansas City 60  25  New York  59  47  
Cincinnati  48  40  Lisbon. N.D. 44  21  Phoenix  71  48  
Cleveland  42  38  Los Angeles 66  50  St. Louis  41  32  

FriJay, ~ebruary 23, 1996 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Carter praises ND for human rights action Auction to 
By BILL CONNOLLY worldwide, nspecially in devel­these countries are where such start in their field. News Writer oping countries," wrote Carter, a degree is usually needed the Currently, six graduates of 

raise funds 


who made human rights issues 
FormfH l'rnsiden t Jim my a central theme of his presi­Carwr has praised the nfforts of dency. tlw Notre Dame Law School The former president also and its Center for Civil and extended his appreciation to Human th1~ CCIIH for working together Bights with the International Human (CCHHI in Hights Council of the Carter advancing Center in Atlanta. the eausn of "I look forward to a long human rights association between our around the Human Rights Program and world. your Center," he wrote. 
In a Founded in 1973 by Father January 19 Theodore Hesburgh, the CCHR lnllnr to initially concentrated on civil Notrn Dame's president, Fathnr rights issues in the United Edward Malloy, Carter wrote: States. "I am writing to <:ommend ... the The CCHR gradually began to work of your Law Sehoul and focus on human rights' law. Cnnter for Civil and Human Since 1986, it has offered an Bights in involving lawyers International Human Rights around the world in the devel­degree (L.L.M.-Master of Law 
o pIIW n l () r a g I () IJ a I h u m a II degree) through the University rights culture." Law school. Candidates for the 
Cartt1r offtlrtld parti<:ular L.L.M. degree need to already praise for tlw eentnr's graduate have their law degree. programs in intnrnalional hu­According to Mr. Garth man rights law and its new in­Meintjns, associate director of ternship programs at the the CCII H. this graduate pro­Unitml Nations Cnnlre for Hu­gram snlects eight to 10 man Bights and at the Interna­lawyers a year from those who tional Criminal Tribunals for apply for admission from devel­Hwanda and thn former Yu­oping countries. goslavia. "Thn idna," Mnintjes said, "is 
Tlw University's !'ommilmenl to give lawyers from developing to a combination of teaching, eountrins thn chance to study rnsnareh and snrvien plays an international human rights law "important role in inereasing sinee such a course is often not both llw numbers and the skills offered in their native coun­of human rights lngal advocates trins. This is unfortunate, since 



r----------------,
1 NAILS BY JODY 1 
IR.eflect your image with elegant nail~ 
I Bring in this ad and receive lOlJio OFF any nail service I I Call (or an tment I 
most." 

' Jam writing to com­mend...the work of your Law School and Center for Civil and Human Rights in involving lawyers around the world in the development of a glob­al human rights cul­ture.' 
Jimmy Carter 
Most recently, under the di­rection of Father William Lew­ers, the CCIIH joined with the Carter Center to create the in­ternship in the United Nations Center for Human Rights in Geneva, and with the MacArthur Foundation to e~tablish internship programs in the prosecutor's office of the International Criminal Tribunals for Hwanda and the former Yugoslavia. 
Graduates from the program on international human rights fill these internships. Accord­ing to Meintjes, this gives the lawyers the practical training they need, giving them a head 
the L.L.M. degree program are serving on either the Tribunal for Rwanda or the former Yu­goslavia. 
Two graduates sent to the Hague in the Netherlands, where the former Yugoslavia's Tribunal is held, have been employed as staff members. 
Those interns in the Tri­bunals work in the legal ser­vices section of the prosecutor's office. 
In this office, they research and investigate evidence in the trials of international criminals. 
Since these interns come from various nations, they are neutral to the countries and the cases they are investigating. 
This is an unprecedented event since not only are the in­terns neutral, but the judges hearing the cases are as well. Past international bodies have been controlled both in the judge's chair and the prosecu­tor's office by the party which won in the conflict under ques­tion. 
Meintjes urged all who are in­terested in the CCIIR and its work to attend a March 23 con­ference which will discuss the work of both Tribunals. 
The conference, which will be open to the public, will be attended by Justice Richard Goldstone, the chief prosecutor of both Tribunals, and various Tribunal staff members. 

for Center 
By DEREK BETCHER 
NewsWrircr 

South Bend's Center for the Ilomeless has set a fundraising goal of $100,000 for its fifth annual auction whieh will take place Saturday at 6 p.m. at the Century Center downtown. 
The auction will feature a wide assortment of novel items including travel packages and sports, television, and music memorabilia, many of which were donated by the University of Notre Dame. In addition, alumni such as Chris Zorich, LaPhonso Ellis, and Hick Mirnr made notable contributions. 
"There's been substantial Notre Dame involvement. They've donated quite a bit," noted Tammy Oehm, the event's coordinator."We've also had a lot of Notre Dame staff on the planning committee." 
"There are 350 items in a silent auction and 4 7 in thn oral one. We've got some really ex­citing things," Onhm said. 
Among the items available are numerous Notre Dame football ticket packages, including one package that lets its purehaser shadow the team all Saturday, from morning Mass to the post­game loeker room. The auction will also feature memorabilia autographnd by cnlebrities including Michael Jordan, Mickey Mantle, Cal Hipken Jr., David Letterman, and Michael Jackson. 
"Our first year we raised $7,000," Oehm said. "Last year we raised $50,000." 
All proceeds are nnllned straight into the Center's regu­lar operating budget. "That money will btl used to buy food and pay for other daily expens­es," Onhm said. 

B R U N 0 'S 
PIZZA NORTH 
US 31 North 273-3890 
Hours: 

Delivery 

'Till 1 AM Sun­273-3890 Thurs Lunch and 'Till2 AM Fri and Sat 
Regular Hours Lunch 11-2 
2 -14"Plain cheese or vegetable pizzas for $1.0.50 
CALL THE SOUTH STORE FOR WEEKEND RESERVATIONS 288-3320 



273-389 0 
USTILL THE BEST" 
Who said nothing in life is free? 
Student Activities presents 
Free Sl~ate Night! 
Saturday, March 2 
JACC Ice Rink 
9:45 p.m. to 1 a.m. 
sl<ate rental, hot chocolate, & cool<ies provided 
Friday, February 23, 1996
page 4 The Observer • NEWS 
Software 
continued from page 1 
give-up. She is the only one she knows, in her position who has gone for an advanced de­gree." 
The development of virtual­reality technology will facilitate in her current aspiration, as well as, her plans for a Ph.D. in Computer Science and a Ph.D. in her favorite subject, Physics. 
The research team is divided into three groups: 
The first group is working with Parkot and the human-in­terface device, learning how to run the software and receive signals. 
They are able to use signals from muscle contractions, eye­lid movement and brain waves to create musical sounds, and to eventually control move­ment in a virtual environment. 
The second group is dedi­cated to designing virtual-real­ity settings. 
A virtual office with a tele­phone, notepad and desk lamp. A virtual representation of Parkot's apartment, along with a complete virtual campus. 
The third group works to in­tegrate the efforts of the first two groups. They take information from the virtual world and turn it into real information and signals that can be used to create a voice, text or movement. 
This semester, the team 
hopes to create a simple virtu­
al office space with a 3-D key­
board. mouse and screens, 
and to associate them with 
their real world counterparts. 
They plan on Parkot actually 
being integrated into the sys­
tem by as early as this sum­
mer. 

The system would allow 
Parkot to turn on and off 
lights, control television chan­
nels, and possibly audibly com­
municate words. 

Once the software has 
reached a useful level, her 
home will be set up, so that 
she can have full access to the 
technology through her com­
puter system. 

This will enhance her ability 
to pursue her degree and will 
provide her a chance to evalu­
ate the system for long term 
design flaws. 

Eventually, they look towards 
generating a package that can 
calibrate itself to individual 
users. 

The "package," when devel­oped, seems unlimited in its potential uses. In about ten years, Dr. Beery claims, the system could allow people, with disabilities like Parkot, to live independently, and to even drive a car. 
Furthermore, Dr. Beery pro­jects that severe spinal injury vit.;tims who have lost control over anything except their eye­lids could potentially move a wheelchair, audibly communi­cate, write letters and control their real life through a virtual world. 
Future development will un­doubtedly link this hardware with robotics, which would al­low anyone to order a robot to water the flowers or cut the lawn. 
Notre Dame is researching and developing this system to benefit not only future disabled students, but to advance the human-computer relationship. 
Students with various dis­
abilities will gain freedom 
through a more maneuverable 
and personal environment. 
Once the system is developed 
the Computer Science Engi­
neers plan on using some of 
the systems in local schools to 
aid in all levels of communica­
tion and education. 

"It is very expensive to edu­
cate a handicap person," 
reminds Dr. Berry, "this kind 
of technology will bring the 
cost of education closer to the 
level of a normal student" and, 
therefore, facilitate in the edu­
cation of the several ingenious 
yet physically challenged peo­
ple, like Parkot. 

•Mr. Hollalll's Opus (PG) 12:50, 4:oo. 7:00, 1o:oo  
•Bed or Roses (PG) 12:55, 3:oo. 5:10,7:35,9:45  
•88auUiul Girls (R) 1:20,4:05,7:10, 0:40  
•Sense ami sensibility (PGJ 1:15,4:15.7:15, 10:05 •Before and Aner (PG·13l too,4:3o, 1:20, 1o:1o  
•CIIY Hall (R) 1:40,4:40,7:40, 10:15  
•Unllll'geiiBble (8) 1:25,4:10,7:38, 10:1o  
•l.elvlnu r..u veuas !Rl 1:3o. 4:2o, 7:05, s:5o  
•BIIICk Sheep IPG·13l 1:05,3:15,5:25,7:45, 0:55 •Twelve Monkeys (8) 1:45,4:35,7:25, 10:15 $3.75 ALL SEATS BEFORE 6 PM  


Tobacco 
continued from page 1 

the health risks of smoking, but people our age do. So I don't know why they do it." 
Several smokers expressed disinterest with health reper­cussions. One smoker stated, "I choose to smoke and I don't think it's going to kill me if I do it in moderation." Another anonymous smoker agreed, "Let me smoke if I want to. I feel like I'm in the minority and looked down upon by non­smokers. It's my choice and I'll take the consequences." 
Some smokers took an oppo­site stance. One smoker in the poll wrote, "I don't smoke be­cause I'm beckoning for lung cancer. I know what it can do to me, and I'm going to quit." 
Actually, 46 percent of the smokers polled stated that it was in their plans for the 
Smoking: Habit or Preference? 
YES NO 

Have you ever smoked a cigarette? Do your close friends smoke? 


Do you smoke alone? 38% 62% 
If you smoke: 

Have you tried to quit? 72% 28% 
Do you plan to quit? 46% 54% 
If you don't consider yourself a smoker, do you ever smoke at 44% 56% social gatherings or bars? 
future to stop smoking. Many Part two of the series will expressed their intentions to explore the health issues re­quit smoking "after college," lated to smoking. specifically for health reasons. 
If you see news happening, call The Observer at 1-5323. 
THE 





ALUMNI SENIOR CLUB 
is hiring 

BARTENDERS for the 96-97 Season. 
Pick up Applications at Student Activities, 315 LaFortune. Must be 21 + by September, 1996 


Kathleen Neal Cleaver 
Founder of the International Section of the Black Panther Party "Sex, Race & Democracy" 

----~ 

friday, February 23, 1996 The Observer • NEWS page 5 
N~ws Writer 
This Friday and Saturday, Notre Dame's llesburgh Li­brary will oll'er a unique oppor­tunity for graduate and under­graduatfl students to learn about the important issue of gender studies. 
The conference, entitled, "Gnnder Aeross the Disdplines: Graduate Hesearch in Gender Studies at Notre Dame" was organized by Deborah Coombs, GSU Women's Hesource Committee Chair. 
"The conferenee is a great expnrienee for the Notre Dame gruduatn students who will be presenting their papers. For many, this is their first oppor­tunity speaking to an audienee about their work," said Coombs. 
None of the speakers, how­ever. are studying gender stud-
Conference addresses Third F-14 crashes in Gulf 
By ROBERT BURNS Just two days earlier Bacon 
Associated Press had said in response to ques­tions about Sunday's crash, in 
role of gender studies 
By BRENDAN BOYLE ies on the graduate level be­WASHINGTON which the two crewmen were 
eause there is no gender stud­ies program on the graduate level at Notre Dame. For Coombs, this is just further evi­dence of the importance of gen­der studies. 
"Gender studies is applicable in more areas than just history and English," observed Coombs. In fact, the speakers range from the Department of Economies to the Medieval In­stitute. 
Not just the graduate stu­dents will benefit from the eonference. 
"This is also a great op­portunity for students interest­ed in gender issues," believes Coombs. "They can hear people speak from a wide variety of perspectives about gender issues." 
The conference lasts from 2-5 
p.m. 
on Friday and 9 a.m. -6 

p.m. 
on Saturday. 


FJ;1 UIIIIDIIIIIIIIIIIIIJJo, 3ITIJIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIUIII ffi 


otre 
ame 

ncounter 

A WEEKEND 
RETREAT EXPERIENCE 
GUIDED BY 
STUDENTS, FACULTY & 
STAFF 

An opporlunllr, In dlelogue wllh othen, to d..pen 
your undentlndlnt of rounelf, your wtlu.., your 
tlletlonthlp wfth Ctw11t, .,our expwlence of Chrletlan 
com""'"'tr and senice. 
RETREAT DATES: 

MARCH 29 • 31, 1996 
FORMS 
AVAILABLE: 

February 26 • March 1 
SIGN UP 

4:00 p.m. -March 1
DEADLINE: 

CONTACT: Campus Ministry Office 1 03 Hesburgh Library 631-7800 
COST: $25.00 

fE IIII!IIDIIIIDUIIII!Iw-; ·••illliiDDUDDIDim ffi 
In most cases wnile you wait-Village Mall 
South Bend, IN 46637
500/o off! 
(219) 277-1515
•Jewelry Repair 
•Gold Chains Centennial Place 
324 W. Cleveland Granger, IN 46530

• Engagement Rings 
(219) 277-1010 
............................................................ 
Dean Bernard Dobranski 
of the 
~olumbu$ i'ebooi of ~a:tu of ~a:tbolie ~ni1Jtr$itp of ~meriea 
will be available to meet with all students interested in a career in law 
Monday, February 26 
10:15-11:15 a.m. 
............................................................ 
The Navy ordered its F-14 fighter jets worldwide to stop flying for three days after a crash Thursday in the Persian Gulf, the third catastrophic loss for the Navy's front-line lighter in less than a month. 
The pilot and radar intercept officer ejected safely before the early morning crash. They were rescued in the northern gulf by a helicopter from the carrier USS Nimitz from which the F -14 was flying, officials said. 
There was no hostile action involved, Navy spokesman Lt. Cmdr. Kenneth Ross said, adding that there was no im­mediate explanation of what went wrong. 
An F-14 crashed last Sunday in the Pacific Ocean; another crashed Jan. 29 in Nashville, Tenn. Ten have gone down in the past two years and 32 since 1991. a record at least a little worse than for other planes. 
"This is a mystery," said Kenneth Bacon, chief spokesman for Defense Secre­tary William Perry. 
•Class Rin~s 
killed, that the Navy saw no pattern in recent F-14 crashes that would call for special safe­ty precautions. 
Each of the last three planes to crash was based at Miramar Naval Air Station near San Diego, although they were from 
Arab/on

different squadrons. Six of the 
&a

Navy's 13 F-14 squadrons are at Miramar. The others are at Oceana Naval Air Station in Indian Virginia. 
Ouan 

Immediately after Thursday's accident, Adm. Mike Boorda, the chief of naval operations, ordered a 72-hour "stand down" of the full F -14 fleet of 337 planes. 
In that period a team of Navy safety and engineering experts will review the latest crashes in search of common threads, officials said. 
The planes cost $32 million san, ein. (19.10 m} .. 
apiece. 64 ft. 1 1/2 in. (19.54 m) 1 Bacon said the F-14s were · N>oU.·2,o0o miles ' ··· · not being grounded for a spe­
Arst flown Dec. 21, 1970 

cific mechanical problem but to 
Manufacturer Grumman Corp.

allow experts to "wrack their 
Bethpage, N.V. 

brains for any explanation, no 
AP
Source: Jane's All Tha
matter how farfetehed." 
World's Aircraft 

JEWELERS Sized... US31 North 
The Notre Dame Marketing Club and the Advertising Educational Foundation present: 

Patricia A. Doyle: Director of Global Strategy for IBM business worldwide for Ogilvy & Mather advertising agency. 
"The Power of Persuasion: How Advertising Really Worl~s." 

Monday, February 26, 4:15 Jordan Auditorium, COBA 
Ogilvy and Mather also handles accounts for American Express, Kraft, Kimberly Clark, Hershey, and NYNEX. ALL MAJORS WELCOME 

Please bring a one page personal statement to Joey in 314 LaFortune by 5 p.m. Sunday, February 25. Call


Please recycle The Observer. 
631-4540 with questions. 
page 6 

Torch 
continued from page 1 

who will form the flame-carry­ing chain from Los Angeles to the Olympic stadium in Atlanta. 
On June 3 or 4, for two blocks in the city of Griffith, Indiana, Montoya will be part of the spirit in the undying tradition of the Olympic Games. 
When he walks down the street in Griffith there are many people he could be repre­senting. With his physical dis­ability, it could be for others who are physically challenged. Montoya could also do it for his hometown or even just for him­self. 
But Montoya views his role in the chain as representing the students of Notre Dame. 
"Notre Dame is a place of spirituality, opportunity and community," Montoya said. "I 
Weekend 
continued from page 1 
Little Theatre. Tickets may be purchased at the door. 
Tomorrow begins with the Academic open house in the lobby of LeMans Hall from 10 
a.m. to 12 p.m. Faculty mem­bers from all departments will be present to meet parents and answer questions. 
A traditional part of the week­end, this is similar to the fresh­man open house. 
However, the students and parents alike can appreciate it at a new level since the students have now completed over three take pride in representing the students who embody that." 
Montoya is quick to empha­size that he is representing the average student who, he claims, often does not get no­ticed. 
"There are a lot of things the University gets publicity about, mainly sports. Instead, I'm representing the average stu­dent who labors hard," Mon­toya said. 
Even though it is not his main goal, Montoya also views the selection as an affirmation for people who are physically chal­lenged. 
"It's another piece of evi­dence, both to people physically challenged or not, that any­thing is possible," he said. 
Proud, yet humble, Montoya can not deny that his role is an inspiration for many. Born in Colombia, Montoya calls the United States home and hopes to inspire all immigrants. 
semesters of their Saint Mary's career. 
"This has been implemented during parents' weekends be­cause students feel it's impor­tant for their parents to meet the professors they work with daily, " said Ellen Coleman, sophomore class president. 
Following the open house is the group tour of the College Football Hall of Fame. Starting at 1 p.m., the cost of this tour is not included in the prepaid weekend expenses. Tickets may be purchased at the door. Mass at the Church of Loretto follows at 4:30p.m. 
The highlight of the weekend is Saturday evening at the Cen­tury Center. The social hour 
The Observer • NEWS 
"I feel I am representing im­migrants because I am one of those people who had to come to the United States and had to learn a new language and cul­ture," Montoya said. 
After moving to San Diego at the age of four, gaining legal residency in 1992 and now his 
U.S. citizenship in the coming year, the opportunity to carry the torch is a sweet reward. 
Montoya believes he does not deserve the honor, but he is thankful to a friend from his hometown of San Diego who nominated him. 
"It humbles you and makes you more thankful for the coun­try you live in," he said. 
Two other people from St. Joseph County were selected along with Montoya: Karen My­ers, a Western Michigan Uni­versity student from New Carlise, Ind., and Robert Bau­thman, a sophomore at Penn High School. 
begins at 6 p.m. and dinner will be served at 7 p.m. 
College President Dr. William Hickey will be present at the dinner and will speak to the sophomores and their parents. The dance follows from 9:30 
p.m. to 1 a.m. 

"The dance, which is a cus­tomary part of Sophomore Par­ents Weekend, is what most stu­dents look forward to," Coleman said. 
"It's a good opportunity to meet the parents of classmates and for those parents to meet each other," she added. 
The weekend concludes with a continental breakfast in Sta­pleton Lounge of LeMans Hall from 8 a.m. to 11 a.m. 

The Observer/Brandon Candura 
The Corps of the Matter 
Brian Anderson from the Peace Corps, answers students' ques­tions Thursday at the Government Career Day held in the CCE. 



The Observer 
is now hiring for the following paid positions: 
Assistant Accent Editor Associate Accent Editor 
c 
.
~ . 

~\·;, r~···

~~:!: 
with any Pizza order. 
The New Number on Cam 


$5.99 
Large 1-Topping 
Not valid with other offers. 

8.99 
Large Pizza with Unlimited Toppings. 
No double toppings. Not valid with other offers. 
mw~INl1I $~JP©'i11lD«Dm 
Regis Holzgrefe 
Regis' hard work as JPW chair­person payed off makir.g this years JPW one of the best ever, distinguishing her as stuncnt of the week. 
Friday, February 23, 1996 The Observer· NATIONAL NEWS page 7 
Record heat wave ignites grass fires across Texas 
By MARK BABINECK more than 40 square miles, additional 40 square miles ear­Associated Prc.s destroying dozens of homes and lier this month. injuring at least 18 people. Gov. George W. Bush today POOLVILLE, Texas Unseasonably hot, windy and asked for a federal disaster 
Hampered by whipping wind tinder-dry weather has been declaration for the entire state. and t1~mp1~ratures rising toward feeding fires across Texas. lie planned to tour the fire area the YOs, firefighters today bat­Before the Poolville fire, flames today. tled a grass fire that burned had raced across nearly an The fire near Poolville, 35 
come on II 0 1r IJ 


CP~wZ2~®[?W w~oo 
PRESENTS 


saturday  march  2  
7  p.m.  Stepan  
tickets $3  at  the  door  or  Lafortune  

win fabulous [f_)[?QZ3@l011 
Bob Barker says ~®Wl~ ~:!lrr~v to get name tags! 
miles northwest of Fort Worth, was 40 percent contained by early today, Department of Public Safety Cpl. Bobby Hart said from an emergency com­mand post. 
Counties At least 16 firefighters and affected two residents had been injured. Angelina 
Bastrop
"We're not talking acres. 
Bexar

we're talking miles," Parker 
Brown

County Sheriff Ben Whiteman 
Callahan 

said. Clay"We've lost houses. We've Coryell lost trailers. We've lost barns. Denton 
Eastland

We've lost deer camps." 
Hill/Blum
The Poolville blaze, the state's 
Jack

largest, destroyed at least 57 
Jasper Upshur

homes, officials said. As of day­Llano 
Uvalde break it covered more than 40 McCulloch Williamson square miles, or more than Palo Pinto Wise 25,000 acres. AP Bush made state workers, 
retired insurance adjuster who
National Guard helicopters and 
had just moved to Poolville, lost
heavy equipment available to 
everything. She was gone when
fight the blaze. 
the fire started. 
Wayne Richardson soaked his 

"I guess I won't be putting my
yard with buckets of water as 
mailbox out anytime soon,"
the fire approached his home 
McCamon said. 
north of Poolville. Firefighters 
Highs Wednesday soared to
sprayed homes in the neighbor­
103 degrees at Laughlin Air
hood with water, but his was 
Force Base, the nation's high­
one of only a couple that were 
est.
spared. 
Dallas-Fort Worth In­
"I don't know why I was so 

ternational Airport reached 94
lucky," Richardson said. "I 
degrees, breaking the mark of
guess I just got picked." 
84 set in 1925. Nine other cities
Neighbor Sandra McCamon, a 

had records in the high YOs. 



The Observer 
is now accepting applications for the following paidpositions: 
Saint Mary's News Editor Saint Mary's Sports Editor Saint Mary's Accent Editor Saint Mary's Assistant Editor Saint Mary's Photo Editor Saint Mary's Day Editor (2) 

Please submit a resume and one page personal statement to Caroline Blum by Friday, March 1st. Questions? call284-4349 or 631-4540 
Come participate in a discussion of the special challenges facing international graduate students... 
The Journey of the International Graduate Student 
Presentation & discussion led by Andreas Erbe11, M.A., from the University Counseling Center (and an international graduate student himself), will cover: 
1. 
Challenges international graduate students face while pursuing their study in the U.S. 

2. 
The stress of making the transition to this culture 

3. 
The disappointments and problems international students face 

4. 
The problems that may occur in the return to one's homeland 


DATE: Sunday, February 25 PLACE: Fischer-O'Hara Grace Community Center TIME: 4:00-5:00 p.m. 
Sponsored by Fischer-O'Hara Grace Residences, tlze University Counseling Center & Campus Ministry 

-~---~----------.~~--~------------­
page 8 The Observer· INTERNATIONAL NEWS Friday, February 23, 1996 
• BosttiA·HERCZEGOVINA 


Thousands of Serbians flee Sarajevo in panic 
By DUSAN STOJANOVIC 
Associated Press 

VOGOSCA 
"I don't know where I'm go­ing," Nebojsa Acimovic said from the window of his old truck packed with furniture, trunks and relatives, joining the stream of embittered Serb refugees fleeing Sarajevo's sub­urbs Thursday. 
"Where this sad column stops is my next home." 
Thursday was the last day before the Muslim-led govern­ment begins to take control of five Sarajevo suburbs -and, in the minds of many Serbs, the last day before the enemy would come to inflict revenge for four years of war. 
The grim flight was another mournful chapter in Bosnia's tragedy -a war whose sole aim was to take a country 

Guerrilla activity results in increased precaution 
Associated Press cials called further provocations 
GROZNY, Russia 
Guerrillas blew up a gas pipeline in southern Chechnya on Thursday, igniting a fierce fire, and Russia strengthened its forces on the eve of a grim Chechen anniversary. 
Leaders of Chechnya's Rus­sian-backed government blamed the blast, and a similar attack in the neighboring re­public of Dagestan, on sepa­ratist Chechen fighters. 
No casualties were reported. But amid reports of a new clash between rebels and Russian troops, Moscow boosted its forces around Chechnya as a precaution against what offi-
The Center for the Homeless 







Auction'(

Saturday, February 24 • 6:30 p.m. The Century Center's Great Hall 
Here's just a few ofthe exciting items being offired at Auction '96: 
* An all inclusive trip for two persons for five nights, including airfare to the five-star Grand lido Resort on 
;e~:~:l:~:::;~:~UF:::Anth::;~:r~:e _vs. 
Ohto State-Your memorable day mcludes limo semce to the game, four tickets to the game, and dinner at the Morris Inn, then alimo ride home. 
; ,_.---* Annchair Quarterback -You and aguest will experience the ~-f action of Notre Dame football up close personal. Attend pre-game Mass and /~~.. .... . team meal before heading to the locker room. After the game, viewed from the 
I /
J 
-
'-' 
_ ._.. 

where Serbs, Muslims and Croats coexisted for centuries and carve out ethnically homo­geneous regions. 
This time, it was the Serbs on the move, forced out because of the policies of their leaders, who oversaw the brutal purge of Muslims and Croats from much of eastern and northern Bosnia, only to lose five Serb­held districts around Sarajevo at the negotiating table. 
Thousands of Serbs headed out of those suburbs Thursday, abandoning their homes in chaos and panic. 
Some slogged on foot along mud-and-snow covered roads in freezing temperatures, their belongings on their backs. Oth­ers jammed onto anything that would move -trucks, buses, tractors, horse-drawn carts ­splashing and sliding in long columns that fanned out from 
by the rebels. 
Friday is the 52nd anniver­sary of the mass deportation of Chechens by Soviet dictator Josef Stalin, who accused them of collaborating with the Nazi army. 
More than half the population of 425,000 Chechens and Ingush, another Caucasus Mountains people, died on the journey to the steppes of Cen­tral Asia. The Chechens were allowed to return to their home territory in the 1950s. , 
Last year, separatist leaders threatened to unleash a "blood­bath" against Russian invaders on the anuiversary, although they did not follow through. 
Vogosca, the first district the Serbs will lose Friday, and from four other areas. 
A German shepherd, led by a young boy, began to stumble on a snow-covered road. "Make it for just a bit longer," the boy pleaded, running his hand over the dog's head. 
A Bosnian Serb official over­seeing the exodus estimated that 20,000 people were leav­ing, with more to follow as all Serb neighborhoods are hand­ed over to the Muslim-led gov­ernment and its Bosnian Croat partners by March 19. 
"This is a human disaster," Acimovic said. 
His truck stalled on a frozen track linking Vogosca to an­other Serb suburb, Ilidza. 
"What did I do to deserve this exodus?" he asked, banging his fists against the steering wheel and swearing at his fortune. 


Snowstorm causes plane crash 
Associated Press 
BAIA MARE 
A plane crashed into a stone quarry in a snowstorm in northwest Romania on Thurs­day, killing all six people on board and two people on the ground. 
The plane, a Soviet-made Antonov-24, crashed about 9 miles from the northwestern town of Baia Mare after at­tempting two emergency land­ings, said the commander of Baia Mare's airport, Col. Vasile Dale a. 
Firefighters in the area said eight people were killed -the six people on board and two quarry workers. 
The cause of the crash was not known. 

Call 282-8700 for more information and ticket sales. Reservations are required. Absentee bidding available. 
Mark your calendar and d011't miss the biggest party of'96. 
• ; sideline, visit the locker room to hear Coach Holtz's post-game talk. Game of \._ li ~-r your choice. (University policy permits only men in the locker room.)
----·. .·* 1\vo ticke~ to Notre.Dame vs. USC in Los Angeles, airfare and two night 
__ ~. ~·· stay at the LA Airport Mamott Hotel, and a two rughts stay at the Marriott's Palm --. ._-· Desert Resort and Spa in Palm Springs. Airfare courtesy of Signal Travel. 
~* 1\vo football season tickets for the 1996 Notre Dame season. 
Other exciting items include: NFL on FOX signed memorabilia, local restaurant gift certificates and entertainment packages, television scripts signed by cast members, and lots of _..,..., surprises! New items are added daily. 

accord signed last December ended more than 3 1/2 years ofwar. 
A terse government state­ment said Izetbegovic suffered sudden cardiac problems and was hospitalized. 
Edhem Bicakcic, vice presi­dent of the ruling Party for Democratic Action, said that Izetbegovic was "out of criti­cal condition. He will be all right." 
lsmet Grbo, a spokesman for the party, said earlier the president would have to remain hospitalized for an unspecified time. 

The plane was en route to Bucharest after stops in Satu Mare and Baia Mare, about 250 miles northwest of the capital. 
On board were three crew members and three techni­cians who had been repairing aviation equipment at the two towns' airports. 
Romania has been plagued by a number of serious avia­tion accidents over the past year, including the March 1995 crash of a Brussels­bound jet just outside Bucharest that killed all 60 people on board. 


• !095-96 SL/\SON • NOTRE D!\lv\[ COtv\MLINICr\TI()N AND TIIFATRE PRLSLN IS 
Pt!WING AI Wr\SI IING'li..''N HALL ON TIIURSIJ\Y, ft BRllr\RY 22, FRil):\), FUIRU:\RY 23 AND SAIURDAY, FU\Rli:\RY 2.J. (MAIINiT AND [V[\INC.) M~\STERC<\RD AND VM Owms uu~ 631·8128 
Sup]p>orted 1by a grant from tlhe Paul .1\1. and Bar1bara Henlkels Visiting Scholar Series and the KnstD.tute for ScholaJrSJhiJP> in tftlle Li1beral Arts. 

Friday, February 23, 1996 The Observer • NEWS page 9 

Shuttle reaches orbit despite engine scare 
By MARCIA DUNN 
A..soliatcd Press 
CAPE CANAVEHAL, Fla. 
Seven shuttle astronauts blasted into orbit Thursday to attempt a Space Age version of Benjamin Franklin's kite exper­iment -unrenling a satellite on llw end of a 12.8-mile cord. 
Columbia, carrying an inter­national crew, rose from its seaside pad at 3:18p.m. As the shuttle sliced through a hazy sky, Mission Control got a scare when n cockpit light came on, indicating engine trouble that could force the crew to abort llw flight. But it proved to be a false alarm. 
"Arrivederci, au revoir, auf Wit~dersehen and adios," shut­tle commandtlr Andrew Allen said before liftoff. "We'II see you in a couple of weeks." 
On Saturday, in a risky ma­neuver, the crew will reel out the satellite and try to generate electricity from the half-ton metal ball and its slender cord as they sweep through Earth's magnetic field at 5 miles per second. 
The same U.S.-Italian exper­iment flopped four years ago; the tether jammed on the reel and the satellite got no farther than 840 feet from the shuttle, producing hardly any electric­ity. 
All known problems -most 
notably a protruding bolt on 
the rmll -have been fixed this 
time. 
The engine scare Thursday came a few seconds into the flight. The caution light as well as a gauge indicated one of the three main engines wasn't pro­viding enough thrust. 
It turned out to be a faulty reading. and Mission Control assured the crew everything was fine after maybe a half­minute of worry. 
Later, Mission Control told the crew that the flight con­troller watching the main engines was "trying to get his heart colleeted again." 
"Tell him to join the club," replied Columbia's pilot, Scott Horowitz. 
If the engine had malfunc­tioned, the crew probably would have had to attempt a dangerous return to the launch site, something that has never been done. 
About 600 European guests were on hand for the launch, including Ferdinando Salleo, the Italian ambassador to the United States. 
The four Americans, two Italians and one Swiss on board will unreel the satellite nearly 200 miles above Earth. For two days, the ball is supposed to soar above Columbia on the end of the tether, which looks like a white boot lace and is made of copper, nylon and Teflon. 
Scientists hope to generate 5,000 volts of electricity with the tethered satellite and pro­duce some 1,000 watts of power as current flows down the tether to Columbia. 

FLOWE 
0 F A M E R C A 
Daily Delivery to Notre Dame and South Bend Don't forget to pick up flowers for this weekend's dance! 
1404 N. Ironwood Dr. South Bend, IN 46635 
(219) 288..3995 
M..F 7:30..7 
""C Sat 8..6 c: 
Sun JQ..S e • 
"All major credit cards accepted"
• 0 ~ 
CHARGE BY PHONE 
199 5-9 6 PAU L M. AN D BARBARA H E N K E L S 
VISITING SCHOLARS SERIES 
COLLEGE OF ARTS AND LETTERS • UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 
Religion and Contemporary Liberalism 
COSPONSORED BY THE jACQUES MARITAIN CENTER, THE jOHN A. O'BRIEN CHAIR IN PHILOSOPHY, AND THE DEPARTMENT OF PHILOSOPHY 
at the Center for Continuing Education, University of Notre Dame 
Friday, February 23, 1996 
3:00PM 
Opening Remarks Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, c.s.c. 
3:15·5:30 PM 
Politically Active Churches and Church-State Separation Robert Audi David Hollenbach 
7:30-10:00 pm 
Religious Discourse and Exclusionary Politics jean Bethke Elshtain Sanford Levinson 
Saturday, February 24, 1996 9: 15·11 :45 AM 
Religion and Liberal Civic Culture john Coleman, S.}. Nicholas Wolterstorff 
1 :45·4: 15 PM 
Liberal Theory and Religious Pluralism Timothy jackson jorge Garcia 
4:30-5;30 PM 
Panel Discussion Martha Nussbaum • Philip Quinn • jean Bethke Elshtain 
• WALES 
Human error at fault for spill 
By SUE LEEMAN 
Associated Press 
ANGLE 

Human error probably caused last week's tanker grounding, which opened the way to one of the 10 largest oil spills in history, the vessel's manager said Thursday. 
The environmental devasta­tion the spill has generated in one of Britain's prime wildlife refuges was becoming appar­ent Thursday. 
More than a dozen dead sea birds have washed up. and hundreds more -mottled with oil -have reportedly been sighted. 
"It is not just the things you can see, like birds, seals and porpoises, that will be affected, but sponges, mollusks and other forms of life." said Phil Rothwell, head of policy opera­tions for the Royal Society for Protection of Birds. 
"This must be a disaster in anyone's terms." 
Capt. Peter Cooney, manag­ing director of Acomarit Ltd., the company that manages the Sea Empress, said there was "a high probability" that human error was to blame for the Feb. 15 grounding off St. Ann's head, the western head­land of the Milford Haven estu­ary. · An estimated 20 million gal­lons of oil leaked into the sea. 
"The early information we have is that there was nothing wrong technically with the ship whatsoever," Cooney said in an interview with BBC radio. 
"This can be borne out because she steamed in her own power finally to the berth where she now resides." 
John Fredriksen, a Norwe­gian who owns the vessel through companies in Cyprus, said Wednesday that the ship's 

Some major marine oil spills •asof3p.m.ESTWednesday 
Tanker  Gallons  Date  Location  
Amoco Cadiz  68 million  March 16, 1978  Off Brittany, France  
Torrey Canyon  36 million  March 18, 1967  Isles of Scilly, U.K.  
Braer  25 million  Jan.5, 1993  Off Garths Ness,  near Scotland  
Nova  21 million  Dec.6, 1985  Arabian Gulf  
Sea Empress  19 million•  Feb. 15, 1996  Milford Haven, Wales  
'%~~:~:.;·  
Exxon Valdez  11 million  March 24, 1989  Prince William Sound, Alaska  

AP/Carl FoxSource: Golob"s Oil Pollulion Bullelin 

crew and officers had passed slow to respond to the ground­tests for drugs and alcohol that ing. were administered immedi­It took six days to tow the ately. tanker clear of the rocks. 
The government was also Transport Secretary Sir defending itself against claims George Young told critics the by environmental groups and rescue operation would be in­St. Ann's residents that it was vestigated. 


GENDER ACROSS THE DISCIPLINES 
GRADUATE RESEARCH IN GENDER STUDIES AT NOTRE DAME 
++++ 
FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 23, I 996 SATURDAY, FEBRUARY 24, I 996 
HESBURGH LIBRARY AUDITORIUM 
The conference will feature presentations of original, gender-related research by Notre Dame graduate students, from a wide range of dis­ciplines. On Friday we will run from 2-6 pm, and on a Saturday fr-om 9:30 am-6:00 pm. This will be followed on Saturday evening {6-7:30 
pm) by a reception in the Hesburgh Library Lounge. All are welcome. Please come and support our grads. 
SPONSORED BY: 
THE GENDER STUDIES PROGRAM OF THE FACULTY OF ARTS AND LETTERS 
THE GRADUATE SCHOOL 
THE WOMEN'S RESOURCE COMMITTEE OF THE GRADUATE STUDENT UNION 
~-­
-

page 10 The Observer· NATIONAL NEWS Friday, February 23, 1996 
Clinton selects Fed nominees 
By MARTIN CRUTSINGER 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON, D.C. 
President Clinton said today he will renominate Alan Greenspan for a third four-year term as chairman of the Fed­
eral Reserve and name White House budget director Alice Rivlin to the Fed's No.2 post.. 
The presi­dent also 

chose St. Louis economist Laurence Meyer to fill a Fed vacancy. 
Clinton praised Greenspan effusively, saying "he has in­spired confidence and with good reason." 
"His decisions have helped us to work toward a period of sus­tained economic growth," the president said during an an­nouncement ceremony in the Oval Office. 
He said that Rivlin, nominat­ed as vice chairman, was one of the nation's foremost experts on how to keep the economy growing. "She always calls it as she sees it."Rivlin had indicat­ed recently that she was not interested in joining the Fed. 
"I haven't lost all my powers of persuasion," the president said with a laugh. "Battered and bloodied though I may be, 1 can still once in a while make a good argument." 
The two Democrats are to be sent to the Senate together with the renomination of Greenspan, a Republican. Economists predicted a favor· able response in financial mar­kets to the selections. They said Wall Street had hoped Greenspan would be reap­pointed and would view the other candidates as highly qualified, mainstream econo­mists. 
"Both of these nominees are solid, and the markets will take them in stride," said David Jones, chief economist at Aubrey G. Lanston & Co. in New York and the author of two books on the Greenspan Fed. 
Rivlin, who took over as director of the president's Office of Management and Budget when Leon Panetta was named chief of staff in 1994, was something of a surprise choice for the Fed. 
Her name surfaced several weeks ago, but at the time she firmly rejected the possibility. She said she thought it was im­portant to stay in her post as budget director because of ne­gotiations with Congress over balancing the federal budget. 
In addition to teaching eco­nomics, Meyer heads his own economic forecasting firm, Laurence H. Meyer & Associ­ates.. 
The administration bas sig­naled for months that it was considering no other candi· dates than the 69•year-old Greenspan for the Fed chair­manship. 
But it had hoped to package the conservative Republican with a more liberal Democrat for the No. 2 post. 
However, New York invest­ment banker Felix Rohatyn, Clinton's first choice for the vice chairmanship, withdrew from consideration last week after Republicans on the Senate Banking Committee let it be known that he was unacceptable. 
Clinton denounced the "out­rageous political treatment" accorded Rohatyn. 

Ameritech faces fines for poor service record 
Associated Press 
MILWAUKEE 

Inadequate customer service could cost Ameritech more than $225 million in fines under a suit by the Wisconsin Public Service Commission. 
The suit, filed in Circuit Court in Madison, said records show instances last year in which customers were without ser­vices for periods longer than tolerated by state law. 
The suit does not specify how big a fine should be. State law specifies $25 to $5,000 per vio­lation. 
If the maximum fines were required, the total could be $225 million, PSC attorney Glenn Kelley said Wednesday. 
The penalty is likely to be less than that because the commis­sion is more interested in com­pensating customers and avoid­ing problems in the future, Kel­ley said. 
Ameritech never denied its service problems last year, spokeswoman Pam Bednarczak said. 
"Our goal is to reach a set­tlement that benefits customers who were directly affected by last year's service problems," Bednarczak said. 
The PSC cited layofTs and re­tirement incentives with which Ameritech reduced payroll, and a transfer of maintenance workers to Ohio just before stormy weather struck Wis­consin last summer. 
The company "substantially and unreasonably" reduced its service ability in Wisconsin, beginning in late 1994, the commission said. 
Ameritech, based in Chicago, serves five states, including In­diana. It said 11,000 employees volunteered for retirement in 1995. 
Company records show 43,400 Wisconsin customers were without dial tone for more than 24 hours between March 1 and Oct. 31, violating a state acceptable-service standard, the suit says. 
Some customers were with­out service for eight days, it said. 
Ameritech will respond to the PSC suit in court documents, Bednarczak said. 

Federal order slows South Shore 
Associated Press 
SOUTH BEND, Ind. 
An emergency federal order reducing train speeds could make some South Shore Rail­road commuters late for work, a spokesman for the line said. 
The order issued Wednesday by Transportation Secretary Federico Pena could slow some trains enough to fall behind schedule, John Parsons said. 
The South Shore, which op­erates between South Bend and Chicago, is used by about 7,000 commuters each week­day. 
Pena issued the order after the fiery train collision Friday in Silver Spring, Md. Eleven people died in the crash involving Maryland Rail Commuter and Amtrak pas-
GO BOWLING TODAY!

$1.49 
a game 

Mon-Fri 9am -Spm & Sun-Thurs 9pm -Close. Anytime open lanes are available. 
senger trains. The order went into effect at 
12:01 a.m. Wednesday and re­quires commuter railroads to comply within 10 days. 
It says trains that stop at a station or slow to speeds below 10 mph can go no faster than 30 mph until reaching an all­clear signal. 
Parsons said there are nu­merous places along the South Shore line, including the east­ern end between Michigan City and South Bend, where trains are allowed to travel as fast as 79 mph. 
South Shore officials are con­cerned that trains won't meet the precise schedule required in the busy Chicago area. 
The South Shore travels on its own rails for 75 miles of its 90-mile route but uses other railroads' tracks for 15 miles in the Chicago area. 
The South Shore passenger service is owned and operated by Northern Indiana Commuter Transportation District, a public agency. 
The NICTD board was to dis­cuss the federal order at a meeting Friday. 

GREAT \YAL 

Voted #1 Oriental Restaurant 1991, 1992, and 1993! Szechuan • Cantonese • American Chinese Restaurant & Lounge Open 7 Days 
Sunday Buffet Brunch -Every Sunday $8.95 for Adults $3.95 for Children 
p tcattons are now being accepted for Food and Supply Manager at the Alumni-Senior Club for the 1996-1997 school year. 
Come Join the Team! 
eve.,y _­

N O WW a;;dNTUNIONBOARD 
T~EN 

I enjoy -watcl!ing a good n~.ovae with and 
Eve..y N 0 Wand 
THEN 

F .. i.& Sat.B/10:30p.n1.sundC 2e:na. s2.oo 
AT U~HING!! 


VIEWPOINT 
Friday, February 23, 1996 
page 11 

THE OBSERVER 
NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY's OFFICE: j09 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1995-96 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief John Lucas Business Manager Joseph Riley 
New• F.di10r ............................... David Tyler Advcnising Manager ........................... john Potter Viewpoint Editor ......... Mtaghan Smith Ad Design Manager ......................)en Mackowiak Sport\ Ediror ...........................Mikt-Norbut Production Manager .................. Jacqueline Moser At:l:rnl Editor ......................... Kri~t<l Nannrry Systems Manager ............................ Sean Gallavan SilifJt Mo~ry's Ec.li1or ................... Patti Carson Observer Marketing Director .......... Perc Coleman Controller ............................................. Eric Lorge 
l"ht· Oh~rvrr is the independent nC'w!.paper published by thC' smdents of the University of Nocrc I>Jtnt" du L.u..uul Saim Mary's Cullrge. It docs nor necessarily reflect rhe policies of rhe adminiscra· nun of C'lther imtinuion. Tht' news is rC'portC'd JS accuratdy and objccrivdy as possible. Unsigned edi· rono&l!!. rcpre\t:l\1 tlw opinion of rhe majority of the Editor·in·Chief. Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoinr Eduor, A,cem Editor, Photo Ediwr, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Ediror. <'ommC'fliJtit•\, lc:ucn .md Inside Columm prcscm the views of the authors, and not necessarily those of The Ohserver. Vicwpuim space is available w all members of the None Dame/Saint Mary's com· rnuniry .1nd 10 all re•u.iers. The free cxpres'iion ofvarying opinions through leners is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines Ediwr~ in·Chief 631-4542 Business Office 631-5313 Mo~no1~ing Edimr/Vit·w~mint 631-4541 Advertising 631-6900/8840 Sport\ (,j 1-4~4.1 Systems/Markesing Dept. 631-88.~9 Nr:ws/Photo 6.11-5323 Office Manager 631-7471 A..:rt'nt/S<~im Mary's 631-4540 Fax 631-6927 I )OJy Edicnr/Prmhu::rion 631-5.~03 Viewpoint E-Mail Viewpoim.l@nd.edu <;r:nrroallnformatinn 631-7471 Ad F.-Mail observer@darwin.cc.nd.edu 

• EDITORIALS 
Coresidentiality ideas too important to trash 
Monday's Campus Life Council meeting produced good news and bad news. The good news is that the council, having tackled tlu' thorny issue of coresidentlality, sent a pair of resolutions to Vice-President of Student Affairs Patricia O'Hara for her consid­eration. Unfortunately, that's also the bad news. 
Whilfl the CLC has done an admirable job in both thoroughly exploring the issue and proposing that the University examine the idea of coed living on campus, members cannot be sure their relwrt will ever go anywhere but into O'Hara's circular file. That seems to be the main destination for many promising ideas on controversial issues, particularly when O'Hara and University officers don't agree with CLC recommendations. As well-researched ideas and proposals are discarded, so goes the body's suppose.d power as the chief advisory board for O'Hara. 
One year ago this February, O'Hara set a dangerous preced1mt by ignoring the recommendations of the CLC after it passed a resolution calling for official recognition for GLND/SMC. O'Hara rnsponded by sidestepping the CLC and creating a committee to advise her on homosexual student needs. That committee has been meeting for almost a year with yet unreleased results, but thnre is no doubt as to whose opinions will prevail. The CLC's resolution has faded like the paper it was printed on. 
By dismissing the CLC's resolution, O'Hara established herself as suprcmn authority on all issues concerning campus life. Tossed aside were the opinions of not only students, but profes­sors, udministrators, rectors and clergy. More importantly. O'Hara obstructed the most important conduit of community sentiment that ever reached the Golden Dome. 
And now, the CLC presents O'Hara with one more opportunity to cast popular will to the trash heap. The CLC has positioned ito;elf as a powerful voice on campus opinion, including faculty and stuff as WP.ll as students. Their aggressive, but informed stanee on coresidentiality is a shining example of their willing­ness to help Notre Dame heal wounds that have festered for too long. llopefully, she'll take this opportunity to do the right thing. 
Mary Ann Who? 
For the second year in a row, the University has disappointed the senior class with the announcement of a fairly obscure com­mencement speaker. Mary Ann Glendon is a speaker who belongs lecturing in Debartolo 101 on a Wednesday afternoon, lnsteud of delivering a commencement address to a packed JACC. Although she's not without credentials, her selection will enrtainly disappoint students and parents hoping to hear a more prestigious speaker. It also breaks a long-standing tradition of inviting a sitting president in an election year. No one but administrators know if there was an honest attempt to draw President Clinton to campus, or where the breakdown occurred. Students can only hope thtl Class of '97 has bHttnr luck. 
• 
L./5713N, MIKE, I KNOW 
IT5 .3:CO A.M. ANI? 
YOU'Re PROBAB/...Y BUSY, 
8lfT YOU WANT 70 60 
OlfT ANI? t3£T SVMe. 
C:OFF&E<' 
• I AM NOT APOTTED PlANT 

Ordaining an all-male priesthood 
I, like many of you no doubt, have been strug­gling for a while with the concept of female priests. As a Catholic wannabe intellectual, I am not entirely satisfied with the rational support underlying our belief. I don't demand that my faith be strictly rational; there are things that can be seen only with the eyes of faith. Still, a faith that is from God ought to make sense on some level or other. 
Then again, God help me, I believe. I believe that the Church was established by 

Nevertheless, a few months ago, a part of the Vatican bureaucracy declared, with the Pope's consent, that the Church has spoken infallibly against ordaining women priests. I must be miss­ing something, I thought. If the Pope didn't speak ex cathedra, how could the Church speak infalli­bly? 
Discussing infallibility in an RCIA class, it sud­
denly became clear to me. The Church teaches that there are two kinds of infallibility. One is the kind I learned about as a kid, where 
God, and that it contains the "fullness of truth." Which brings us to the dilemma; I want to trust the Church but my reason leads me elsewhere. 
Of course, in the Bible, Jesus chose 12 men to be 

Charles Roth 
the Pope speaks ex cathedra. The other kind is exercised by the bishops, together with the Pope, usually in a Church council, but not necessarily. 
If the Church can speak infallibly, it can't be just that we elected a good Pope. It 

Apostles, and Jewish priests were only men. Women played significant roles in Jewish history (Ester, Judith) and in New Testament times. Women may have been present at the Last Supper; they certainly were with Jesus on Golgotha. But they were not priests. This tradition has continued for 2000 years, and it is not to be taken lightly. 
Still, assuming that the Church has not sinned by ordaining only men, the issue remains as to whether that tradition should continue. We used to have Mass in Latin, eat fish on Fridays, and require that women entering the Church cover their hoads. Clearly, the mere existence of a tra­dition doesn't end the discussion. 
Now, if the Pope spoke infallibly, that would end the discussion (for me). My childhood ed­ucation wasn't stellar, but we knew that when the Pope spoke infallibly (ex cathedra), we were obliged to believe. The other option was to stop believing in the Church, and to become a Protestant. • 
But as every good Catholic knows, the Pope has only spoken infallibly on two subjects: the Assumption of Mary and the Immaculate Con­ception. As a child, I remember thinking that these two were pretty easy; not obvious, perhaps, but at least they didn't seem to affect my life very much. A declaration on women's ordination would be very different. The Pope has still, you can quote me on this, made no ex cathedra infal­lible statement against ordaining women. 
could only be because the Holy Spirit was leading the Church. It is pleasing to think that the Church is being guided down the right paths by God, but even more so to think that this guidanee isn't something bPing handed down more than twice in human history. I envi­sion the Church being constantly guided by the Holy Spirit; maybe not 100% right every time, but always protected from being completely wrong. 
With regard to women priests, I don't believe that the Holy Spirit would allow the Church to have gone so long in error, even if that error was common to society. A community so holy as the Church would never allow itself to be so misled by something that can o~ly be described as sex­ism. The bishops, together with the Pope, have made it clear through their actions these last 2000 years that they feel no authority to ordain women. 
I do not yet comprehend why God should want only male priests. But it would not be the only time God has been guilty of particularism. As Dorothy Parker put it: How odd of God To Choose The Jews. 
Chuck Roth. a law school student, has never earned enough to pay income tax, and appears likely never to do so. Commiseration and com­plaints can be sent to Charles.G.Roth.6@nd.edu. 
GARRY TRUDEAU 
• QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"lean't understand why peo­
ple are frightened of new ideas. I'm frighte.ned of the old ones." 
-John Cage 

page 12 Friday, February 23, 1996
ACCE-NT 
The Staff of Accent proudly presents 





An Undercover Report on the Fabulotts , 
.(~ 

.,.; .~ ­
* "..,.-~~~. ~ -:::;;..:.:; .... : .... '.; -~­
.-~_....... if,.' -:__ ---·:.r-~~[-· _.....~.:-~: '-~ • .., 
'-'"'.t• ' • 
-~-It~~.... .. ~ 
_.,."' -< 
'f.'~?:f··_;. 
. 
/I 
' ' 
':_t ": ' 

r~EAPER ,,, 
By DAN CICHALSKI 
Accent Copy Editor 
and JOEY CRAWFORD 
Assistant Accent Editor 

ancing, funky ties, long hoi, Van Morrison's "Bro gifts: these all are part of Dame and Saint Mary's mals represent a stapl Mary's weekend life. Sc (the preferred, more pol 
hall semi-formal") and formals offer a cha ing the week's sorrows away with life's fi dents, they are times of great celebratio are a tremendous burden; to still others, just another social event in a long series of 
An average student may attend a couple ing a semester, but an elite group may f~ teen in a single academic year, or upwarc year career. 
Freshmen come to the South Bend area 
SYR night entails, but they learn fast. Bauer, who hails from Malvern, Pennsylv of a Freshman Dancing Queen. So far s and SYR's, with three more lined up in th friends bet me that I wouldn't make it to year," Bauer says. ''I'm not going to mak dance is this weekend and I'm going to Sta 
With so many dances to go to, what to tough decisions. Bauer says she tries ' much, especially with the same guy." W nent, a friend or neighbor across the hall i gown. 
Out of the eleven dances she's attended several for certain unique events. Over was the best. "Everyone had polyester recalls. The worst? "Our formal with Ke too crowded." 
With so many dances on the resume, tiJ wacky and wild experiences. "When I car at St. Ed's, my friends told me my datf around the building." Bauer laughs. A 
occurred at the Air Force Ball. "It was r Bauer says. "We were walking to the Pas gowns and there were lakes everywhere. and by the time we got there we looked li better after that." 
Of course, what would an SYR or formal best one I ever got," Bauer laments, "was actually flushed." And who says gifts just 
Kimberly Saurer also learned about tho career at the University of Notre Dame. twenty times during her freshman year al she attends has decreased each year bee resident of Turtle Creek, Saurer recalls s her first year, "I went to the Flanner Ha the best time. My date lived on one of th mate and I had been doing shots. When i of the floors (a tradition in Flanner). we the fifth floor I have no recollection." 

When asked about her 
recalls jokingly her ni Observer Editor-in-Chie calls Fort Collins, Color of the interesting gifts received a bunch of s those though. I al times ... one time my doms from some gu 
"Yeah, one time groped on the dane Afterwards, he left 
floor," she laughs as she refl her anonymous roommate. · ed for dances. Sometimes i 
meet someone new." she admit, the typical SYR an 
tiresome. Farley Hall sophomo similarly about the u 
events. "I had a gre has frequented the Dance. It was less formal because the the typical dance," s The New York nativ 


---~----~ 
Friday, February 23, 1996 page 13
ACCENT 
for a one time appearance the .... 

• 


ysterious Realm of SYR's and Formals 

a plenitude of alco­
Eyed Girl," flowers, silly long tradition on the Notre SYR's and for­of Notre Dame and Saint -Your-Hoommate Dances ically correct term is "all­to dress up while drown­To some stu­
not quite knowing what an llall resident Amanda represents the epitome attendnd eleven formals "One of my all tlw men's dorms in one it because Morrissey's last 
wear bneomes one of many !dresses! too appears immi­always willing to lend out a 
thus far, Bauer remembers II, Zahm's "Decade Dance" nd it was really cool," she nnan at Senior Bar. It was 
ere are bound to be some e back from the bathroom was somt~where running other night to remember 
ke a monsoon out there," 
e drowned rats. But it got 
be without the gifts? "The 
toilet bowl key-chain that ren't creative anymore? ~e crazy dances early in her 
She daneed the night away me. (The number of dances use of a boyfriend.) Now a me of the highlights during I Christmas formal and had top floors, where my room-came time to start the tour ere pretty intoxicated. Past 
orst dance expnrienee, she :htmare date with current ~· John Lucas. Saurer--who do, home--reflects on some she has received: "I guess I uirt guns ... everybody gets ~o got bubbles a couple of roommate got a box of con-
she didn't 1wen know. ny roommate was severely 1 floor for a couple of hours. 
her standing on the dance !cts on the misadventures of Most of the time I was excit­. gave me the opportunity to 
~ ~~ (.' ~~ 
& 


~ coolest!" Villaruz explains. "I get a lot of toys. Toys get boring 
after awhile." 
His most memorable dance experience came during his sophomore year when he attended the PE formal. During that excur­sion, his date "got really sick." This expert of dances claims that Pop Farley is easily the best dance on campus. But the time his date fixed him and his friends dinner at the Lewis formal during his freshman 
\' 

year definitely ranks as one of his top dancing experi­
ences. After attending the vast number of dances that he has, the dancing king tends to become a little apa­thetic about the events. "Towards the end of the streak, they become a bit of a burden," Villaruz maintains. Regardless, he loves going to SYR's and formals because they give him the opportunity to hang out with friends and "just chill." 
Not everyone is so enthusiastic about dances, though. Some people view these social events with complete disdain. Flanner Hall sophomore John Polhemus main­tains, "I hate dances; dances are stupid. They're just a reason to get dressed up and drink." 
Regardless, if you are a fan of dances, or if you despise the concept, they pose to be interesting nights. No one ever knows what quite to expect. One junior who wish­es to remain anonymous explains an outrageous dance: "My date kept me alone in a room and made me listen to Lionel Richie all night." By the end of the night, she was dancing on the ceiling with anger. 
Dances can be a great time or the worst experience of your life. From the advice of one of the "dance­aholics" polled: "It all depends on what you make of it." And that is one to grow on. 
An impressive list of dances that Aaron has attended during his 
. 8. SMC Freshman Formal-Beth U. stay at Notre Dame. 
•· Sophomore 
9. 
Farley SYR-Amy A. 

10. 
Knott SYR-Caroline A. 

11. 
LeMans Hall Dance-Sarah K. 

12. 
Morrissey Formal-Caroline A. 

13. 
PE SYR-Amy S. 

14. 
SMC Sophomore Formai-Jen 0. 

15. 
Morrissey SYR-Amy S. 

16. 
Lyons SYR-Janet A. 17 Pop Farley-Kristi K. 


18. 
Siegfried SYR-Beth T. Junior 

19. 
Farley SYR-Aileen F. 

20. 
Walsh SYR-Titea L. 

21. 
Morrissey Formal-Stephanie B. 

22. 
Howard SYR-Beth 

23. 
Morrissey SYR-Stephanie B. 

24. 
Lewis SYR-Sharon B. 

25. 
Lewis Formal-Tara C. 

26. 
PE Formal-Michelle F. 

27. 
Cavanaugh Formal-Lisa D. 

28. 
Morrissey Formai-Jen G. 

29. 
Folk Choir SYR-Mary S. 

30. 
Morrissey Formal-Renee F. 

31. 
SMC Junior Formai-Meghan M 

32. 
Farley Formai-Tracey Senior 

33. 
Knott SYR-Trang B. 

34. 
Lewis SYR-Jill A. 

35. 
Morrissey Formal-Amy G. 

36. 
Howard SYR-Sarah M. 

37. 
Badin SYR-Monica E. 

38. 
PE Formai-Jen G. 

39. 
Pangborn SYR-Nancy F. 

40. 
Lewis Formai-Jen R. 


41 . Pop Farley-Liz F. 
42. BP SYR-Liz S . 


... 
-
-
-

adds. Although, she must.---------------------_::______~===============~~~~~~::~~~~ 1 dance "uniform" can grow 
If you can beat the incredible record set by Aaron Villaruz, you 
e Michelle Annunziata feels 
·ual attire needed for these 
t time at Zahm's (where she 
could win a dinner for two at Don Pablo's fine eating establishment. 
most-three times) Decade 
monotonous than the usual 
Please call the Accent desk by 5 p.m. on March 5 at 631·4540 to 
dress was not as stifling as 
e maintains with fervor. 
enter. Documented proof needed. We look forward to your calls. 
has had her share of dance 


The Tragedy of Macbeth Arrives at Washington Hall 
Tragedy strikes Washington Hall. 
By RACHEL TORRES 
Accent Writer 


The Mystery of Agnes +-Iaunts Saint Mary's College 
I
magine an open black stage outlined with a thin white line. No scenery. Limited props. Five actors, and a time­less text by William Shakespeare. This is "Macbeth." 
This unconventional approach to theatrics comes from ACTER, A Center for Theatre, Education, and Research, and based at The University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill. Starting as an offshoot from the Royal Shakespeare Company in England, ACTER sponsors groups of London actors to go on six to nine week tours to campuses across America. The performers not only stage a play, but they also teach students and faculty about many of the aspects of theatre. 
Philip Joseph, Gareth Armstrong, Sam Dale, Sarah 
By MARY BETH ELLIS 
Saint Mary's Accent Editor 

T
he opening words of "Agnes of God" float from offstage, a portion of the Mass hauntingly sung by Agnes herself: "Kyrie elison, Christi eli­son ... " Lord, have mercy; Christ, have mercy. It is a fitting first line for this two-hour exploration of issues of innocence and deception, anger and forgive­ness. 
"Agnes" is deftly brought to the stage by Katie Sullivan, Saint Mary's Assistant Professor of Communication, Dance and Theatre. Part psychologi­cal mystery novel, part deeply probing character sketch. "Agnes" is a Church-soaked study of turbulent 
-
minds. This is not "Sister Act": The plot, which carries the audience from a assuming ramrod straight "who­dunit" posture on the edge of thier seats to a hand­over-the-mouth sympathy with the characters, is pow­erfully carried by a three-actress cast. The dominent themes of "Agnes" are reflected in its setting; the actresses pace and cower on a on a stark, colorless stage, the monotony of which is broken only by abstract, somewhat tortured figures that tower before
-a mood-lit backdrop. 
"Agnes" opens with court psychologist Dr. Livingstone, who narrates the action of the plot, offer­ing the audience an encaptulation of the off-stage action that brings the play to its in medias res starting 
,. 
point. Ever-present cigarette in hand, Livingstone delivers her "the facts of the case are these" monolouge: She has been appointed to the case of a young nun named Agnes, accused of murderering her own infant child minutes after its birth. Livingstone must deterine her ability to stand trial. 
Before we meet Agnes, however, we are introduced to her Mother Superior, Sister Miriam, whose early good humor is soon punctured by Livingstone's inquiries to reveal a wary and secretive nature. From Mother Miriam, we learn that Agnes is no ordninary nun. Completely sheltered by her abusive mother from the outside world, Agnes came to the convent at age seventeen without having see.n a movie or read a book. Her apparatnly pure love of God, however, seems to have sustained her in lieu of contact with soicety. 
As the play progresses, the audience is granted glimpses of increasing depth into Agnes' convoluted mind_:_ a mind suffering from paranoia, imprisioning guilt, and schizophrenia. These mental tribulations, tempered by a celestial singing voice, a brief appear­ance of the stigmata on the young nun's palms, and flashes of extra sensory precipitaion, have Livingston unravling Agnes' mind for months on end. 
Livingston herself functions as much more than a supposedly sane, secular first-person vehicle for the plot. Hardened against the Church from the day her sister died in a convent when her superior flatly refused to supply her with adequete medical attention ("I ran away from my faith as fast as my mind could go," she tells us), Livingston sums up her acidly cynical view of Catholicsm when she announces to Mother Superior, "The Virgin Birth was a lie told to a cuckholded husband by a frightened wife ... Poverty, chastity, and ignorance-that's what you live by." Livingston, who finds God only in an indi­vidual's mind, struggles for objectivity while dealing with this saintly but disturbed reli­gious. As she works to pry open the blinds hocking Agnes' rec­ollection of the night of her ••••child's death, Livingston is forced to confront personal religious and ethical issues. Exconde Her voyage, in a way, mirrors 
that of her patient's. 
Mother Miraim emerges as 

Berger, and Joanna Foster bring the magic from the London stage to campus this week. Supported in part by a grant from the Paul M. and Barbara Henkel's Visiting Scholar Series, and the Institute for Scholarship in the Liberal Arts, the actors pre­sent five performances, as well as work with stu­dents and faculty to discuss the literature and art of theatre. 
Working with the students in the classrooms is one of the most enjoyable aspects of this program for the players. Dale states, "The enthusiasm is very high; American students are much less inhib­ited than European students, and they tend to be much more energized." 
Indeed, the enthusiasm for this program can be felt around campusi the tickets sold out two weeks ago. The lucky ones who scored tickets for the actual performances are in for a real treat. 
The actors are presented with a challenge from the start since the five of them must represent thirty-two characters. An interesting catch to this 
The Observer/Brandon Candura DUmber is that because tWO Of the players are 
women, they must play male parts. 
"In Shakespeare's day," states Berger, "women didn't act, so men had to play the women's roles. This per­formance represents an interesting switch." 
Using vocal variations and subtle costume changes, the actors convince the audience that they really are different characters. The audience is called upon to use its imagina­tion since the actors are constantly changing roles and have little but their sheer theatrical talent to enhance their images. The stage has no scenery, but somehow the audi­ence knows when they are in Macbeth's castle or when they are on the battle field. This experience is powerful because of the overwhelming performances by the players. 
The ACTER performers bring unique and educationally entertaining incites into theater this week. Not only is "Macbeth" a well received performance, the intimate class­room experiences conducted by the performers are unpar­alleled. 

The ObServer/Cynthia Exconde The Saint Mary's Production of 'Agnes of God' shows this weekend. 
the play's most surprising character. Her inaugural jaunt on stage, complete with a corny one-liner, slowly degenerates into a picture of a somewhat shady indi­vidual, seeming to be overly protective of Agnes and her activities surrounding the night her infant child was found dead in a waste basket with its umbilical cord wrapped around its neck. She originally appears to possess a healthy view of both science and religion, but her fear of Livingston's probing questions of Agnes-"(Don't look at her as) the sum of her psycho­logical parts ... You're a surgeon. I don't want her mind cut open," she says upon their first meeting-reveals itself to be a protection of herself. 
"Agnes of God" does not resolve so much as it con­cludes. Plot questions raised by the storyline are answered; ethical and religious questions raised by the characters, of course, are not. "Why was a child molested and a baby killed and a mind destroyed?" an anguished Dr. Livingston demands in the final scene. Her only answer is a non-answer, as voiced by Mother Miriam: "We'll never find the answers to everything." 
"Agnes of God" runs Thursday, February 22, through Sunday, February 25. Student tickets are available for $3, senior citizens for $6, Saint Mary's -Notre Dame community members for $6, and adults for $8. Tickets are on sale at Saint Mary's box office in O"Laughlin Auditorium, 9 A.M .through 5 P.M ., Monday through Friday. Orders are accepted at (219) 284-46626. 
Friday, Fdmmy 23, 1996 The Observer· SPORTS page 15 
• Cou:::GE BASKETBAH 
Freethrows key in upset of Bearcats 
By JOE KAY Assudatnl Press 
CINCINNATI No. 21 Louisville did all kinds of things wrong Thursday night: missed layups, thrnw the ball away and had three players foul out. 
Tlwy did one thing exactly right: hit free throws. The Cardinals sank 2H of 36 in all. induding live by Tick Rogers in the final minutn, to hnat No. 6 Cincinnati 72-66. 
That one statistie made up for a whole lot of bad ones that usu­ally would mean disaster. The Cardinals {19-7, 10-2 Conference USA) had U> turnovers, had leading scorer DeJuan Wheat go 0­for-9 from the lield, and played th11 last 18 min utns without an exp«lrieneed eenter. 
"I don't know how to explain it," coach Denny Crum said. "Twenty-six turnovers is too many. And DnJuan going 0-for-9 ... If you'd have given me that stat before the game, I would have said we have no chance." 
Cincinnati (20-3, 9-2) lost on its home court for the first time in 
1:1 games this season because it couldn't take advantage of all those openings. Instead, the Bearcats wound up with their most lopsided loss. 
"They lwat us to the ball, they outplayed us, they outcoached us, tlwy outmanaged us. We didn't get it done," coach Bob Huggins said. 
Louisvilhl led most of the game and linally pulled away late in tlw second half. Alvin Sims' steal and dunk capped a 7-2 spurt that pushed the lead to 65-55 with 4:54 left. 
Darnell Burton's 3-pointer cut it to 65-62 with 1:02 left, but Louisville went 7 -of-8 from the line to get its ninth victory in 10 games. 
Fouls play«~d a big rohl. The officiating crew of Dick Paparo, Ed llightower and John Clougherty called 55 fouls, including two first-half teehnicals on Cincinnati. Louisville outscored Cincinnati from tlw foul line 28-13. 
The Cardinals came in determined to be just as physical as Cincinnati, which has a reputation for pushing around opponents under the boards. Louisville ended up with a 35-28 advantage in rebounds. 
"We talked all week long about how it was going to be a physical game and we've got to match lire with fire, not let them intimidate you," Crum said. "We went to war with them." 
A tightly officiated game would seem to favor Cincinnati, which has a lot more depth and height. But Cincinnati couldn't take advantage as Louisville's swarming defense kept the ball away from center Art Long and power forward Danny Fortson. 
"He (Fortson) never really got a chance to get into the game," Wheat said. "We played tough defense all night. We were in his face, and I think we confused him with our quickness." 
Fortson scored 23 for Cincinnati and Burton added 20. 
Rogers led a balanced Louisville attack with 17 points. Brian Kiser and Damion Dantzler added 12 apiece, and Wheat and Sims each had 11. 
Louisville center Samaki Walker missed his ninth consecutive game ovr.r questions of how his father obtained a car, and backup center Beau Zach Smith fouled out with 9:22 left. 
But Cincinnati gave up its front-line advantage by getting in foul trouble. Long, Fortson and point guard Keith LeGree were on the bench together with fouls for much of the first half. 
Louisville took advantage at the foul line. The Cardinals, who average 65 percent from the line, hit 17 of 21 free throws in the first half. Cincinnati was 1-for-5. 
Huggins got a technical for arguing calls during a timeout, and LeGree got a technical for arguing a charging call five minutes later. In-between, Louisville hit three free throws and went up 13­7. 
Burton changed the momentum by hitting a pair of jumpers and making a couple of steals during a six-point spurt that tied it. His dunk off a drive gave Cincinnati its biggest lead, 31-25, and the Bearcats took a 34-31 lead into intermission. 
Kittles suspended 
VILlANOVA, Pa. 
Kerry Kittles, the top scor­er for fourth-ranked Villanova, has been suspend· ed for the team's final three regular-season games because of the unauthorized use of a university telephone credit card number. 
"He made a significant number of calls over a peri­od of several months," ath­letic director Gene DeFilippo said in a statement. "The credit card number did not belong to any member of the basketball staff." 
After learning of the card use, the school contacted the Big East Conference and the NCAA, DeFilippo said. 
"The NCAA has ruled that use of the telephone credit card number is an extra benefit, and that Kerry is suspended for the next three regular-season basketball games," he said. "He will, however, rejoin the team and participate in the Big East and NCAA tourna· ments." 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. 
Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
Classifieds 
I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I 
I 
I I I I 
I 
I 
I 
-

must contend with Wolters' win. She was smothered by the four inch height advantage. Husky defense in their previous 
UConn 
"We will try to play behind meeting. her more," added McGraw. "She is going to draw the best 
continued from page 24 
Nykesha Sales and point defender on the team. But if Connecticut is always a chal­Jennifer Rizzotti, who leads the we run our offense correctly lenge. It will a great experi­team in assists, make up the and set our screens, she should ence either way," McGraw said. second and third members of get some good looks," stated 
The 25-3 Huskies are led by a Connecticut's tremendous trio. McGraw. trio of stars. Kara Wolters, a 6-Sales was a major factor in the Preparation and a good atti­7 center, averages more than last game with the Irish, so tude is definitely a great be­18 points and nearly 8 re­Coach McGraw hopes to apply ginning. but execution will be bounds per game. more pressure to the talented the key to victory. 
Her dominating presence guard. "We're going to try and find near the basket frustrated the "Nykesha Sales really hurt us their weak spots and take ad­Irish defense in their first in the last game. We plan to vantage of them," said Gaither. match-up. put Stacy Fields on her this If the Irish want to be one of 
"We have to pressure the ball time." the best, they will have to beat on the perimeter. Then it's my Beth Morgan must have a one of the best. This weekend, job to make her take a tough good shooting performance in the Irish will have that oppor­shot," explained Gaither, who Connecticut if the Irish hope to tunity. 
• SPORTS BRIEFS 
Jazz Oance: A Jazz Oance come out 
Co-Ree Volleyball Tournament class will be offered>\on o.n; on Saturday, March 2,from 10 Monday and Wednesday from a.m.-4 p.m. The registration 6:30-7:45 in Rockne Rm, 219. deadline is February 29. Play All levels are welcome, but Women's Lacrosse: Practice will take place in the Joyce space is limited. Y<ru must schedule change beginqing 
Center Fieldhouse. For more 
register ·in advance. {l.t ·the. F~))ruary 2<ta:~g. will:p.q~ b~. • -6100,
''::::w·

RecSports office and the fee. is Tuesday and Jhurstla.y af 
$30. For more information, 10:15 p.m. Questions? CaU 
call 1-6100. Open to all NO Allison at 239·7924. Interhall Soccer: All off-students. · "· . campus women interested in 
Orop-ln , •. Volley .lh .. Pli;\ying interb,a.Jl sp.;cer please 
Intercollegiate )lowllng: RecSports will·be sponsoring Ti·¢(ln(~ctBridget at ?73-2284. 
Any students of Saint Mary's Drop-In Volleyball eyery · , 
or Notre Dame who are inter­Tuesday night this semester; lnterhall Sports: RecSports ested in collegiate bowling Play will be from 8-11 p.m.. in is offering IH women's, cam-
competition, please (}ontact the Joyce Center. Open all pus outdoor, and qo-rec indoor 
Jason 4-1065. '' students. f~9Vlty and~!{'-~ocp~J".; ... IH 12' men's,
women's, and Grad/Fac/Staff 

Downhill Ski 
Trip: softball. · The deadline is Feb. 
Saint Mary's Basketball: RecSports will be sponsoring a 28 and· all captain meetings 
Come see the legendary ski trip to Cannonsburg, MJ on are on Feb. 29. Please call 
COACH MARVIN WOOO coach Sunday, February 25. The fe~ ,631~6100 for times~ · · 
his last basketball game evl3r fot the trip is,$30.0Q anq if 
Saturday at 3 p.m. at. Angela includes lift ticket, ski rental Notre Oame Men's 
Athletic Facility. Seniors Barb and transportation. The· bus Volleyball: Home games this 
Howells. Collen Andrews, departs the library circle at 11 weekend. Saturday the 24th at 
Michelle Limb, and Jennie a.m. and returns at 8 p.m. 12:00 against Butler and 
Taubenheim will also be mak­The registration deadline is Sunday the 25th at 3:00 
ing their last basketball apper· Thursday, February 22. against UI-Chicago.. Come 
ances of their careers. There support the men's volleyball 
will be a halftime show and Volleyball Tournament: team. Games are played in the 
other activities, so be sure to RecSports will be sponsoring a pit (auxiliary gym) ln the JACC. 
Please Recycle The Ohser.,er 
1811 S Ironwood Dr 

Between Lincoln­way and Calvert! 
233-7272 

54533 Terrace Ln 
Next to Subway on SR23! 
271·1177 

Perfect Pizza. Perfect Price. When you need to Everyday. stretch your budget, 

let Papa John's® Pizza help you out. Use the coupons below to enjoy some great pizza values. PLUS, you 
So if the only thing you can 

always get Papa John's® spe­
find in your pocket is lint, 

cial garlic sauce and pepper­
it's definitely time to get 
oncinis at no extra cost! 
Papa John's® on the phone. 

Late Nite Special Large : Fighting Irish Special 
I

Large Large 1-Topping, 
1 Topping Pizza I 
1 Topping Pizza I Bread Stix, & 2 Cokes 
9pm-close
95

$5.~~ $69~ ~ iI $1 0~~ 

The Observer/Brandon Candura 

Junior forward Marcus Young will be key under the boards if Irish hope to defeat Seton Hall on Saturday. 
get that, everything else will come."

Irish 
One thing that is starting to come along for the Irish is bal­

continued from page 24 
anced scoring, as Notre Dame The road, however, has not has begun to consistently place been kind to the Pirates this three players in double-figures. season, as The Hall has won Against Providence, Pat only one of its ten contests Garrity, Hyan Hoover, and 
away from home. Derek Manner all scored ten or That bodes well for a Notre 
more. Dame squad attempting to find The Hall exhibits similar bal­
its identity on its home court. ance, led by Griffin's team-high "Losing at home is extremely 19.8 points per game. Hurley, 
disappointing," noted Young, younger brother of Duke legend "However, we're starting to feel Bobby. and Levell Sanders also more confident, and once we average double-digits. 
Beds. Booths & Euros
~ 
~~~. Open 7 Days a Week 
e Q,u> 
Convenient Hours 
~ ~QJ 
Student Discounts
0~ ~ 
()'\)-' {• Unlimited Tanning Until March 10 for $25 -Beds + Booth -exp. Feb. 29 
• 1 Month Unlimited Tanning $35 -Beds + Booth -exp. Feb. 29 
272-7653 
UNIVERSITY COMMONS BY U.P. MALL 
256-9656 
GRAPE & McKINLEY NEAR K-MART 
·.....,­
.:. VISA 
_.,.,=··-~ --.:."<#.:... -----.J 
presen : 

SPECIAL FRIDAY COLLEGE NIGHT 
Featuring: 

ARTIE & THE ARTICHOKES 
LOWER LEVEL 

• 
With Guest D.J. 's on both lower Level and Upper Level Playing your favorite Tootsie Roll, Bootie Call & Perculator Hip-Hop music between Band Breaks on Lower Level and All Night on Upper Level 

• 
Doors Open at 8:00 p.m. 

• 
Both Dance Floors Open Until Close. 

• 
Absolutely no one under 21 will be admitted after 11:00 


p.m. and absolutely no one under 21 will be admitted without a college ID. Period. No exceptions. 
$3.00 Admission With Student ID $5.00 Admission Without Student ID 
*Every one under 21 must state they are prior to entry. 
hiday, February 23, 1996 The Observer • SPORTS page 17 
• fENCING 
Fencers face final regular-season challenge 
Irish, Joyce Center to host regional tourney 
By WILLY BAUER 
Spurts Writer 
After a month of traveling around the midwest and east coast, Notre Dame's fencing team got some well deserved time off to prepare for this weekend's Midwestern Team Champions at the Joyce Center. 
Both squads had successful regular seasons as the men's team went 22-2 while the wonwn finished 23-1. 
This we11kend the team will attempt to defend its Midwestern title. 
Freshmen played a major role on both teams during the regular season and will look to continue the effort this week­tmd. 
Sara Walsh and Myriah Brown were strong all year long for the women's foil team and Luke LaValle was an excellent complement to men's sabre captain Bill Lester. 
The Irish have previously faced each of the teams in this weekend's tournament and beat them all handily. 
"This is the last tune-up be­fore the NCAA qualifiers," said coach Yves Auriol. "The main concern is to fence better. We have beat all the Midwestern teams before, now we need to beat them with consistency. 
This weekend will decide the final spots for the team that will go to the qualifiers. People are very close to each other." 
For the women's team, com­petition will come from Wayne State, Ohio State, and Northwestern. 
Wayne State has a women's foilist who was on the Polish national team, and might give the Walsh-Brown combination some trouble. Ohio State boasts a women's foilist who placed at last year's NCAA championships, who also has the potential to give the Irish women fits. 
For the men, solid competi-
CHRISTMAS IN APRIL 
ISIGNUPS 
Monday, Feb. 26 and 
Tuesday, Feb. 27 
I I a.m. to 2 p.m. 
4 p.m. to 8 p.m. ' at Library Concourse 

I I a.m. to I p.m. 5 p.m. to 7 p.m. at SMC Dining Hall 
Limited space available ???s call Mike Dunn XJOOO 
tion will come from Lawrence University which has the NCAA champion with the epee. 
The Irish men's epee team has been a question mark all season. Captain Carl Jackson has not fenced all season but Brice Dille has filled in admirably. 
"The men's epee team has shown some improvement," critiqued Auriol. 
"Confidence is the main thing. The team has to fence well as a team. They have a lot of talent but are inex­perienced." 
Wayne State also has a strong men's foil squad which could test Jeremy Siek and the rest of the Irish foil team. Siek has fenced well this year. 
He has been complemented all season long by Auriol for his leadership qualities and his ability bring along the younger members of the team. 
"Each team we face will have good individuals," praised Auriol. 
"Some teams have people that could be in the top five at the NCAA's. As a team, we have the strongest in the Midwest. Because of the indi­viduals, this should be good competition before the quali­fiers." 
Not everyone on the team took the weekend off. LaValle, Brown and Nicole Mustilli par­ticipated in the Junior Olympics in Nashville. 
Mustilli and Brown tied for third place in the women's foil. Mustilli also placed third with the women's sabre, not a NCAA event, and ninth with the epee. LaValle placed ninth in men's sabre. 
~-......"'Tl 
Observer File Photo 

Senior foilist Jeremy Siek approaches the end of his collegiate career as he and and his fellow fencers pre­pare for the NCAA Championships. 
FRIENDS WORLD 
A PROGRAM IN COMPARATIVE RELIGION & CULTURE 
in 
.JAPAN • INDIA · ISRAEL 
A Year-Long Academic Program including visits to Thailand, Nepal and Italy 
• 
STUDY Religion, Anthropology/Sociology, International Studies, Cross­Cultural Studies, Gender Studies and many other fields. 

• 
LIVE in a Buddhist temple, a Tibetan monastery, a Hindu mission and join in their festivals, rituals and local arts. 

• 
EARN 24-36 credits toward your Bachelor's degree. Friends World is fully accredited with a 30 year commitment to global education and social change. 

• 
INDEPENDENT PRO'-'ECTS, discussions with religious leaders and other participatory activities are complemented by lectures and seminars. 


This program is supported with fondingfrom The Henry Luce Foundation, Inc. Ask about availabk scholarships. 
Friends World, Box CN Long Island University 239 Montauk Highway Southampton, NY 11968-4198 (516) 287-8475 jhoward@sand.Iiunet.edu 


LONG ISLAND UNIVERSI.TV 

page 18 The Observer • SPORTS Friday, February 23, 1996 
66th Annual Bengal Bouts 

(No, this is not a cruel joke). 
Help Student Activities pick a comedian for a show this semester. Check which of the following shows you would attend and send to 315 LaFortune by Fri., March 1st. 
PAULA POUNDSTONE $4/TICKET 
PENN & TELLER ROB SCHNEIDER STEVEN WRIGH.T  $7/TICKET $4/TICKET $5/TICKET  
Name: Phone Number:  

Winner will receive dinner for two, a limousine for transportation, two tickets to the show, and a chance to meet the comedian. 
Bouts 
continued from page 24 
finals, where he lost to Rob Naticchia. 
Some of the other top seeds include junior Butch Cabniros at 150, Mike Debiasi at 185 and Mike Mantey at 190. 
The 170-pound division looks to be one of the tightest divisions from top to bottom, with seniors Bob Lalor and Todd Murphy taking the top two seeds. 
Lalor, a captain this year, fell to Farrell in the 1995 semifinals at 175, while Murphy lost to Goddard in the finals at 170. 
One of the tougher decisions placed on the shoulders of the coaches was the layout of the heavyweight card, which looked as recently as a week ago to have a near full brack­et. 
Because of some major disparities in weight, however, some changes had to be made. 
Six boxers are now in the 200 pound division, with only three going to heavyweights, which had a weight limit of 250 pounds. 
Mon.-Fri. 9 am· 8 pm 

~ §flea•r Vlla1z,e~ af 
Sat.

"Styles for all Walfts ofLife" 
9 am-5 pm In the Campus Shoppes 
Sun. 11 am· 4 pm 

• Stylists specializing in : $5 Off a wide range of styling 
:Relaxer/Perms

for dances & special 
Expires 3/8/96

occasions • 
• Appointments necessary for tanning, relaxers, penns, and styles • (119)171-7674 

Sean Rogers, a walk-on on the football team, weighed in at 298, which made him ineli­gible to compete. 
A precedent was set a year ago, when former football player Greg Stec was forced to drop over 30 pounds to get un­der the ceiling. 
Even that seemed to be almost unfair, though, as he knocked out Jason Svadeba ten seconds into the first round to take the title. 
Whatever the weight class, though, every bracket will be looking for some good bouts, though some of the boxers may not be showing the best form. 
"The time period is so short to train," Suddes said. "It actu­ally takes a few years to get it going. 
"But boxing is a strange mix of the individual and the team sport. The veterans have of­fered a lot of support to the younger boxers the whole time. I'm really looking for­ward for the Bouts to begin." 
The quarterfinals start Sunday at 1:30 p.m. in the Joyce basketball arena. 
All the proceeds from the Bengal Bouts will go to the Holy Cross Missions in Bangladesh. 

Friday, February 23, 1996 

Observer File Photo 

Freshman forward Aniket Dhadphale will need to ignite the Irish offense in order to keep playoff hopes alive. 
The Observer 
is now hiring for the following paid positions: 
Saint Mary's Sports Editor 
Interested applicants should submit a resume and a one page personal statement to Tim Sherman in 314 LaFortune by Tuesday, February 27. Any questions? Call Tim at 631-4543. 

Special for Notre Datne and Saint Mary's Students. $2.oo Off with ID on Feb, 24'11 
The Observer • SPORTS page 19 
• HOCKEY 
Playoff hopes rest on thin ice 
By MIKE DAY 
Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame hockey team is short on a lot of things. 
They are short on the number of points they need to get into the playoffs. Thus, with just three games remaining in the regular season, they are short on time. And with leading scor­er Jamie Ling out for the remainder of the season, they are short on offensive produc­tion. 
However, there is one thing they are not short on. Fortunately for Irish fans, that one thing happens to be confi­dence. 
"I feel very good about the way we are playing," said Irish head coach Dave Poulin. "We have been playing well now for the last four weeks but haven't had anything to show for it. I'm confident that the results will come in these last three games." 
Trailing Ohio State by three points for the eighth and final seed in the CCHA playoffs, Notre Dame needs to win at least two of their last three games to have any chance of qualifying for 


·······················---------· 
I 

I I I I I I I I I 
I OFRCE I 
I StUDENT SENATORS I 
I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I 
I I ­
I I I I 
I I I 
I I I I I I I I I I I I I I 
post-season. 
Fortunately for the Irish, there has never been greater reason to be confident. They travel to Ohio to take on sixth place Miami tonight before visiting fifth place Bowling Green on Saturday. 
"These two games are against teams that we feel we can beat," said junior center Terry Lorenz. "We had our opportunities to beat both of them earlier in the year. so we're confident that we'll get the job done this time around." 
With 20 points in the stand­ings, Miami has all but locked up the sixth seed in the CCHA play­off race. Despite struggling at the defensive end, allowing over 
4.50 goals per contest. the Redskins (9-17 -4) have used one of the league's top offenses to make their move in the stand­ings. 
Freshman Randy Robitaille has been arguably the CCHA's top newcomer, ranking fifth in the conference with 43 points. With 13 goals and 26 assists, center Kevin Adams has also enjoyed a productive season. 
"They are a team that has im­proved a lot since the beginning of the season," said freshman right wing Brian Urick. "Still, we know that we are every bit as goort as them, and if we play our game, we should come out on top." 
Urick (11 goals), fellow frosh Aniket Dhadphale (12), and ju­nior center Tim Harberts (22 points) will be counted on to provide offensive punch as the Irish continue to adjust to the loss of Ling. 
"Certainly, that is a huge loss for us, both at the offensive and defensive end," said Poulin. "But we have some guys who are starting to come into their own offensively. so we should be all right in terms of scoring." 
The Irish dropped both of their earlier meetings with Bowling Green by one goal, so they know that upsetting the Falcons (22­11-1) is not out of the realm of possibility. 
Center Curtis Fry (42 points), left wing Brett Punchard (39), and center Mike Hall (39) lead the Falcons offensively, while Mike Savard and Bob Petrie have both seen action at goal­tender for Bowling Green. 
As for the Irish, senior Wade Salzman and sophomore Matt Eisler continue to alternate in goal with Salzman drawing the starting assignment Tuesday night against the Spartans. After stifling Michigan State early on, the veteran was part of a defensive collapse, giving up three goals in the final 3:33. 
"lie (Salzman) did a good job for us but struggled with the rest of the guys at the end," said Poulin. "Both him and Matt Eisler have been playing well for us, so I'll decide at game time who will start. I'm confident that both of them will get the job done this weekend." 
Indeed, the Irish are short on a lot of things but remain long on confidence. 



I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I 

------------------------------------------------~ 
page 20 The Observer • SPORTS Friday, February 23, 1996 
• TRACK & fiELD 
Wilson Invite offers SMC's Davis chases NCAA berth 
By CAROLINE BLUM Saint Mary's Sports Editor 

final stretch to NCAAs 
By JAMES BELDEN Spons Writer 
The Irish track and field teams are making the final turn on their 1996 outdoor season this weekend as they 
host  the  Alex  Wilson  
Invitational.  
The Men are  looking for  

their success to continue after last weeks third place finish in the Big East Championships, while the women are hoping to bounce back from their disap­pointing eleventh place finish. 
Loftus will be hosting anum­ber of the nation's top individ­uals who will be attempting to qualify for the indoor NCAA's during the final week of the indoor season. 
"About fifteen schools will be represented this weekend, with all of them hoping to qualify," coach Piane said. 
Notre Dame already has four individuals who are provision­ally qualified for the indoor championships and this week­end will give them an opportu­nity to send more. Jason Hexing has qualified in the 3000 and 500, and he will be joined by Lamarr Justice and Mike Fleisch in the triple jump and shot put respectively. 
Berit Junker is the fourth qualifier and is currently the lone qualifier on the women's side. 
Both squads are counting on making more than four reser­vations for the NCAA's in Indianapolis. 
"Errol Williams has a really good shot at qualifying in the 55 meter hurdles," stated Pian e. 
The Irish will be running in the Silverton Invitational on March second and then they will be concentrating on the championships. 
Last week the Irish were looking to score points for the team, but the focus has now turned towards the individu­als. "The focus turns towards the NCAA's this time of the season," coach Piane stated. 
One of the most important 
lessons in life is realizing there 
are some events that you just 
can't change. 

Freshman Stacy Davis was 
lucky enough to learn this les­
son early on. 

When asked about her hopes 
to qualify for the indoor track NCAA Division III finals Saturday at the Alex Invitational at Notre Dame, all she could say was, ''I'm going to go out there and do the best ,that I can do. I'm going to en­
joy it and try to have fun." 

Two weeks ago at the 
Huntington Invitational, Davis 
ran a 7.3 in the 55 meter dash 
for first place. 

If the meet had not been an 
exhibition, the time would 
have automatically qualified 
her for indoor nationals. 

Last Saturday in the first 
competition of the actual sea­
son, Davis again went home 
with a blue ribbon, but with a 
7.43 time. So instead of traveling with 

THE LAW SCHOOL EXPERIENCE FROM APPLICATION TO 
Tuesday. February 27 at 7:00p.m. 155 DeBartolo Hall 
A 12-member panel of prospective and current law students will discuss a range of topics from preparing for the LSAT to planning for graduation from law school. 
ALL STUDENTS ARE WELCOME 

University of Notre Dame Martin Luther King, Jr. Holiday Celebration, 1996 
Congratulations to Essay Contest Winners: 
Kathryn Goyer, Undergraduate 1ST Place 
"Honorable Intentions" 
Kristin Sadie, Graduate 1sT Place 
"Social Transformation"
-
Chris Lenko, Undergraduate 2ND Place 
"Enslaved by Our Fears of Difference" 
Kristen Boeke, Graduate zND Place 
"Resistance, Complicity and Oppression in One Hell of an Orphanage" 
Presentation of Awards: Sunday, February 25 at 7:00 pm Washington Hall, during the event of Kathleen Cleaver's talk: "Race, Sex, and Democracy" 
Martin Luther King, ]r. Holiday Celebration Planning Committee 
her team to another invitation­al at Huntington College this weekend, Davis will compete with the Notre Dame track team at the Alex Invitational. 
"I hope competing with Notre Dame will push me to go faster," she explained. 
"Hopefully it will allow me to see what I can do. I realize it's still early in the season so I won't be disappointed. I'm confident that I will improve through working hard this sea­son." 
Davis, a native to South Bend, attended LaSalle high school before coming to Saint Mary's this fall. Davis compet­ed in the state finals each year except during her sophomore season due to an injury. 
In her senior year, she placed first in each competi­tion but state, where she fin­ished fifth in the 100 meter dash and second in the 200. 
When the outdoor track sea­son begins after spring break, Davis will return to her favorite events, the 100 and 200 meter dash. 
''I'm excited for the outdoor season to begin," Davis said. "I see the indoor season as more of a workout than seri­ous competition." 
As for the rest of the team, they will travel to Huntington Saturday for the meet. 
At the University of Chicago last week, junior Paula Kivinen finished third in the high jump, 4' 11", and freshman Carrie Ferkenhoff earned fourth in the 3000 meter. 
"I think we'll do really well at Huntington this weekend because we've been there be­fore," Kivinen said. 
"When you've run a track before you feel more comfort­able the second time around." 

For hirthdays, good luck, congratulations, I Lo"e You, You're the Greatest, Thinking of You, Get Well or any occasion 
Send a hallon h_o,ught from 
v 4"~==~ ..,.,, ' 

HAVABAstf/ BALLOONs 
::f. .:· ~ ~ 
--' / Dixieland Plaza 
19785 Auten Rd. (Corner of J1 North) 
\ " 

' South Bend ' .~ ~,~,t~ ' 219/271-9766
,, ~\t l" ' ..~~'~ '''\. .·· l ,,, 
Congratt~lations Cookie Bouquet Thinking of You Care Package Find'bam,Sur"i"al Kit Craduafioh Balloon-in-a~Box 
\ righten someone,'$ day -send them 
alloon houquet from'Ha.,ahash Balloons 
10% di1count wilh 1tudent identiFication 
Cla,Jl(r A.. IJ T'I:Jrrr fl'iiDT·.,--,·E.
ii1 :r 1 'i c~l •• )lit ~~·~ :· , 
presented by Notre Dame Communication and Theatre 
631·7361 




-----~-------------~,#'-­
Friday, February 23, 1996 The Observer • SPORTS page 21 
.::>­

• BASEBALL 
Irish look for offense against Uncle Sam 
Three more reasons to buy a 
Macintosh this semester. 
. . 


• 
• r, __~
• .,. .... .. . iv 
~i.ll~~ 
"-"' 

Power ~acintosh 1200 PowerBook Pcrfom1a Power Pavback + Printer + Printer Rchaie Pa~back· Pa\back 
S.!t~llu l't(l Oil :1~· rofl.t'1 ltw:mlooJ> ll'xl tll{illtli II'bilk' ()1'1 :\.\1 lftk Hill"" ll'ili <illli~·J>Ilfl ;<I w· <{Ui •flullrl\111~ "''"'' ~ i,•tJ{'I•t(i•lw>i~ ui1 \J>.'l.F/7 J\>tNt/h~ uho·tr prmhN'<IIIJW Yf>l.• f•TIIIM uf<71 ;•ur,i>oN< u11/..~ \1 -V1>1<· dr'f-411< r111.1/vr prml<'l'\ \fj}'( 7.'.{•{'Ji: j•ntlll'f\ '/llolhf',tr~ (',-rfarnra 
IJ)(l~tng for J grt•JI dell on uomputrr and pnrlll"r' .~ wmplr!c ~y~tcm 1h:u\ tJS)' 10 tl\\' and rx·nt·n for all your ~hool r.t-eth> \ldl. no nt"t't.l to looL an~ funhrr lk'rau~c wh1lt ~uppht·~ 1~1. }l>U can rt't:t'irc up wl $SOO mail·m rdu!t~ whrn you buy ~ekctcd combinJtiM~ of :\pplt· \l:mnlmh wmpulc~. monrw~ :wd pnlllcl)_ Chn~ out the Ll!t'~t in .\ppk Computer~ nn Clmpu~ Thcr h:m: t'\crythmg for )\'!U !n tJkc homt·the pmwr to malt· any Mutknt. fJlUity or ~!.tffs hk 


Notre Dame ComputerStore 
Locall'd in Room 112 :\lnth and Computu Building Notre llame. lndhma 4(,556 219-631-7477 or on the Wd> at http://www.nd.t.·du/-ndrnat·/ 
Fightin' Irish invade Memphis to take on Acadamies in search offirst victory 
By DYlAN BARMMER 
Spons Writer 
Tlw Notrn Dame baseball ttmrn hopns to lnave the compe­tition "All Shook Up" this wenk­tmd, as tlwy travt~l to Memphis to eompetn in the five-team Servien Aeadmnies Classic::. 
Tlw Irish will look to bounce haek from a sonwwhat disap­pointing 0-2 start, as they take tlw fitdd l'or four seven-inning ganws ovt~r a tlm~e day span. 
"Thn team is a little upset ovt~r how this past weekend went." stated eateher and learn eaptain Bob Lisanti. "It's not a 
ERASMUS BOOKS 
•Used 
books bought and sold 

•25 
categories of Books 

•25.000 
Hardback and Paperback books in stock 

•Out-of-Print 
Search Service: $2.00 

•Appraisals 
large and small 


Open noon to six Tuesday through Sunday 
1027 E. Wayne South Bend, IN 46617 (219)232-8444 
Don't Get 
leftOut 
In The Cold 
Heat is Included in Your Rent! Plus Gas For 
Cooking &Hot Water 
Efficiencies from $290 
1-Bedrooms from $305 
2-Bedrooms from $375 
24-Hr. Emergency Maintenance Free Aerobics Classes Attentive Staff Community Activities Pool &Sundeck Clubhouse Air Conditioning Laundry Facilities Cable TV Available Beautiful Landscaping Close to Shopping 
272-1880 
Call or stop by today and we'll show you how great liVing at HICkory Village can be. 
+llCKORl] lJlLLACJEf! 
Mon.-Fri. 8-6, Sat. 10-4 & Sun. 12-4 
-
"t. 

situation where we feel really down, though. The guys are still excited to play -we're sort of chomping at the bit to get out there." 
The Irish will go to war against Army and Navy on Friday, both of whom have yet to face regular season competi­tion. On Saturday the Irish will meet 4-4 Air Force, and on Sunday they will take on Memphis, who will be playing in front of a supportive home­town crowd. 
While neither of these four opponents is seen as a national powerhouse, Mainieri and his Irish squad know better than to look past their opposition. 
"Sometimes the service acad­emies don't have the best talent level, but they'll battle you for the entire game," said Mainicri, who coached the Air Force Aeademy for six seasons and was instrumental in the Classie's creation. "You saw it during this past football season, when Notre Dame got the light of their life from both Army and Navy. I'm not taking any of these teams for granted." 
If the Irish are to get on the winning track this weekend, they will have to settle into a better groove, both offensively and on the mound. 
"We have to get our pitching going in the right direction," commented Mainieri. 
Sophomore Christian Parker is expected to take the hill for Friday's game against Army, with Darin Schmalz, Dan Stavisky, and Craig Allen also slated to start this weekend for the Irish. 
"We're going to have a good pitching staff this season," as­sured Allen. "I think our prob­lems last weekend were just a combination of first game jitters and getting used to being out­side, throwing off a real mound in a real stadium. We all got a few innings under our belt, and are ready to get back out there." 
Saturday's game against the Falcons is particularly mean­ingful for Mainieri, who is in only his second season at Notre Dame after a six year stint at the Academy. 
"It's going to be a very inter­esting experience for me per­sonally," commented Mainieri. ''I'm going to be up against a lot of players I recruited while at the Air Force Academy, and I'm also good friends with the coaching staff. I have nothing but the utmost respect for the Air Force Academy, but I will approach this game just like I do any other game against any other team -we'II be looking to go out there and spank them." 
As the only team in the tour­nament with more than two games under their belt, the Falcons may pose a threat to the Irish. Although they boast a bloated 9.55 ERA over their first eight games, the Falcons' offense is more than capable. 
Junior outfielder Derek Sawser has been the main threat for Air Force at the plate, compiling a .474 average to go along with a team-high three home runs and 15 runs batted in. Senior infielder Mike Sharp boasts a .500 average with nine RBI, while junior catcher Andy Watson is batting .333 with a home run and 11 RBI -not bad for the first four 
Observer File Photo Notre Dame will look to junior second baseman Randall Brooks to pro­vide solid defense up the middle of this season. 
games of the season. 
Mainieri expects the Irish to continue to play solid defense, while at the same time becom­ing more effective on the mound and more aggressive at the plate. 
"I was very pleased with our defensive play last weekend," commented Mainieri. "We need to learn to be more ag­gressive at the plate however ­really attack the ball and cut down on our strikeouts." 
The Irish struck out 22 times in their two losses to #17 Georgia Tech last weekend, in­cluding an embarrassing 15 
unch-outs in the second 


page 22 The Observer· SPORTS Friday, February 23, 1996 
• SOfHIAU. 
Irish sojourn to desert for season-opening test 
Observer File Photo 
By TIM MCCONN 
Sporrs Writer 
The Notre Dame softball team set out for the warmth of sunny Arizona yesterday as they pre­pare to begin their 1996 cam­paign today at the Arizona State Classic in Tempe, AZ. 
Behind the guidance of fourth year coach Liz Miller, whose record at Notre Dame is a stel­lar 117-52, the 1995 squad had the most successful season ever last year. 
They finished 19th in the na­tion after reaching the finals of the Mideast regional, where they eventually fell to Michigan 15-6. Based on this success, the· Irish feel they have plenty 
t 
! 
of high expectations to live up to in the upcoming year. 
However, both players and coaches feel this success won't lead to any added pressure. The only pressure, they feel, will come from within the team, not from the so-called experts on the outside. 
"We've set goals," said Miller. "We have created our own pressure. Expectations are not a factor right now. We're just ready to go out and play." 
Added All-American senior pitcher Terri Kobata, "It's still hard to tell hard right now (about pressure) since we haven't even played a game yet." 
Speaking of Kobata, she leads 

Senior pitcher Terri Kobata looks to add to her team high 14 no-hitters, as she leads the Irish into the new season. 
A77EII71011 
SOPHOMORES!! 
Ai>Plications for the JPW 1997 chairperson ore available at the Lafortune lnforrnation oesk. Return cornpleted applications to 
315 Lafortune, 
Student Activity Office· 
.. 
The Deadline is M 
28th s· onday, February 
· 1gn up ~0 . 
,. r an Interview when you turn in your application. In regards to
-
any questions. 
one area of the team that will have to perform quite well for this team to be successful. In her career at Notre Dame, she has 14 no-hitters, eight of which were perfect games. For these reasons, she has been the Irish's only two-time All­American. 
Along with Kobata, the other two starters will be junior Joy Battersby and freshman Angela Bessolo. The relief work will come from sophomore Kelly Nichols, who led the nation with eight saves last year. 
One problem heading into this weekend, though, is the fact that the pitching staff is experi­encing the injury bug. According to Miller, Battersby "is not back to 100% after breaking her hand in fall ball, and (Kobata) is questionable with a back injury." 
"A lot of responsibilities are going to the freshman and sophomore pitchers," com­mented Miller. "We have a lot of depth on this team, though." 
One concern as the Irish open up the season is that they play on the road an eye-popping 7 weekends in a row. This might pose as dangerous for many teams, but not for this one. 
"It could go either way," said Kobata. "We could get closer, or we could get sick of one an­other. But with the chemistry we have on this team, I can only see us getting closer." 
Coach Miller was overjoyed to hear this. 
"The chemistry is going the way we want it to go. Plus, we know that once we get through this stretch of road games, we have a long home stretch in April." 
The first test of this chemistry comes this weekend, beginning today against first Northwestern, then against 
Must be present to win at 
Basketball Movie Night 
February 28 La Fortune Ballroom HOOSIERS 8:00 p.m. 
HOO·P DREAMS 10:00 p.m. 
tickets will be distributed before Hoop Dreams with the drawing to be held after 
Midwestern Team Championships 
9:00a.m. 
this Saturday and Sunday 
Joyce Center Fieldhouse 
FREE Admission with your NDISMC student /.D. 
W~ Umu 
pto the 
IONAL FINALS & GAME TICKETS!!! 
host Arizona State. Then, on Saturday, they face a Big Ten doubleheader, Wisconsin and Indiana. 
The Irish have not had much success against three of these teams in the recent past. They lost doubleheaders to both Northwestern and Indiana last year, and they dropped a 4-1 decision to the Sun Devils at this tournament last year. Because this is the first year of varsity softball for Wisconsin, this will be the first ever meet­ing between the two schools. 
Expectations and past per­formances aside, the season is about to begin. The Irish know this, and are ready to build on next year's performance. 
By doing well this weekend against quality competition, Notre Dame would be taking a key step in this direction. In the words of coach Miller, they are "ready to go out and play." 


----------------------..----------------------------------------------------·---~~~------------­
MISTER BOFFO 
WE HOLD VlLLAGE MEET­INGS TO BOAST OF OUR 5K.lLL5 AND CURSE THE 
DEVIL-5PAWNED END­
USERS. 
\ 
54 End of the quip 61 "Abdulla Bulbul 
--" (old song) &2 Brouhaha 63 Villa decoration 64 Stradivari's 
teacher 65 At any time 66 Trim, as a 
photograph 67 Like some 
myths &a Florida county 69 Interpret 
DOWN 
1 Kind of sandwich 
2 Superimposed 
3 Japanese merchant ship 
4 Pipe dream: Var. 
5 Put on cloud nine 
&"Holy--!" 
7 Sampras, at times 
a Bone connector 9 These may be hit or cooked 27 Disburdens
1 o Shop tooI 29Warm-up
11 Ex-British P.M. 
exams, for short 
12 40's-50's singer -Lynn 32Cuba-­
page 23 

Friday, February 23, 1996 The Observer • TODAY 
DAVE KELLEIT 
JOE MARTIN 


PIG ON MY 


21 Pick 22 Foreign lady 25 Burn 26 Where Indians 
raise a flap? 

46 Keys sa Time's partner 48Stood 
59 Gymnast 51 AIa King? Korbut 53 Worship eo Musical pipe 
Get answers to any three clues by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420­5656 (75¢ each minute). 
YOUR HOROSCOPE JEANE DIXON 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY! IN THE members for support. Your sound NEXT YEAR OF YOUR LIFE: judgment wins you high praise. Show a healthy skepticism by giv­VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): ing more thought to other people's Your timing is excellent. Go ahead motives. Success depends on your and promote a business idea; career doing your homework diligently. advancement is a certainty. Deal Spending time with treasured diplomatically with headstrong peo­friends could make you decide that ple. Focusing on work leads to the price of fame is too high. Make astonishing progress. up your own mind about a "glam­LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Seize orous" lifestyle. A personal relation­a chance to strengthen an important ship reaches a turning point as relationship. All signals are "go." Christmas approaches. Have a clear Keep a tight rein on your temper. vision of what you hope to achieve Arguing will only make a difficult in the years just ahead. situation worse. 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21 ): THIS DAY: President George Soft-pedaling any criticism of fami­Washington, golfer Amy Alcott, ly members will help preserve basketball great Julius "Doctor J" domestic peace. Advantageous Erving, auto racer Niki Lauda. changes are in the works. Showing a 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Do positive attitude will win you some not allow groundless worries to important concessions. undermine your confidence. See SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. obstacles as tests of faith, not per­21 ): Creative enterprises will boost manent roadblocks. Sensible moves your income. A partnership is will get better results than issuing formed following a series of lively ultimatums. discussions. A romantic relationship 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): blossoms when you talk about Try to balance your dynamic things that are important to loved willpower with a heart of gold. Con­one. Speak from the heart. sulting an accountant or stock bro­CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. ker will help you provide for your 19): A strenuous work effort may future. Stay in shape. leave you feeling worn out. Be pre­
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): pared to back up a statement with Your efforts are rewarded with a facts and figures. True love helps to promotion or raise. Avoid taking stabilize your life. unnecessary financial risks. Joining AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): a professional group helps you meet Things could get tricky at work this influential people. Sharpen your morning. Beware of deception on writing skills. the part of a business associate. 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): Be Minor health problems require 
realistic; everything may not go attention. Keep dental and medical 
your way. Adopting a give-and-take appointments. 
attitude will boost productivity. PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): 
Inside information makes it possible Romantic partner may be moody. 
for you to put away extra money, Overseas contacts could be a source 
perhaps from a real estate deal. of dissension. Try to avoid a direct 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): You will confrontation. Travel enjoys highly 
gain more in the long run if you post­favorable influences. Allow extra 
pone asking for a raise. Be patient; time for a project that could prove 
your day will come. Tum to family profitable. 
•MENU  
Notre Dame  
North  South  
Vegetable Lo Mein  Arroz con Queso  
Shrimp Poppers  Mississippi Fried Catfish  
Cheese Enchilada  Breaded Cheese Sticks  
Saint Mary's  
Herb Marinated Steak  
Ocean Perch  
Okra and Tomatoes  

• OF INTEREST 
Flip Side will be sponsoring a trip to Marci's and a movie {bring money for both). Van pick-up is tonight at 
5:15 at Library Circle and 5:30 p.m. at LeMans' Circle. Questions? Call John (ND) 4-1419 or Erin (SMC) 284­5507. 
NOBODY'S FOOL will be tonight at 7 and 9:30 in Carroll Auditorium. Admission is free. Sponsored by SAB. 
Cinema at the Snlte: Tonight and tomorrow night the movie "Uving in Oblivion" will be playing at 7:30 and 
9:30 p.m. The cost of the movie is $2. 
"Embracing the Current Crisis/Building for the Future!" at New Wings of Faith Church (The Sunday place to Be). Located in the Historic 100 Center Complex, 100 N. Center Street. Mishawaka. Indiana. Service times are Sundays 9:30 a.m. and 6:00 p.m. Phone 219-271-8362 for more information. 
There will be a meeting for those who are interested in joining the Notre Dame VIetnamese Club at Building 8 O'Hara-Gra.ce Graduated Student Residence on the 25th of February (Sunday) at 6 p.m. All are welcome. If you plan to attend, please send e-mail to John Tran: jjt@csc.nd.edu. 
.. 
..... 
.. 

CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 
1 Pack (in) 
5 List ender 9 Huzzah for Horne 
14 Canyonlands National Park site 
15 Mathematical sets 16 Exxon Valdez, e.g. 
17 Bayes who sang "Over There" 
18Give--up 19 "Thai·s," e.g. 
20 Start of a quip 
23 Nettled, with "off" 
24 Rimrock locale 
25 Base runner's feat 
28Word with season or secret 
30 Seamstress's strip 34 Desists 36 Uppity one 38 Lady's man 39 More of the quip 42Antietam general 43 Show bias 44 Aft 
45 Lucille's love 
47 "Born Free" lion 
49 In a difficult position 50 One's entity 52 Adriatic seaport 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
r.;-r~;:+.:::+.==+:-+.+.:+-c~F.t:':-Ei ..r7+.~+.::-...,.-..;::+;~=+:-::+=R 
-:+7-+:::-f'I!IPI!IIIE+.-:-B~ 
-
• 

r
l . SPORTS
t 
page 24 Friday, February 23, 1996 
r Bengal Boxers get ready to rumble
f 
Bouts' quarterfinals begin on Sunday 
6 th Anno Notr--•a
By MIKE NORBUT 

Sports Editor 
It's been six weeks of running, eating healthy, swinging at a mirror and occassionally punch­ing another person. But when the 66th annual Bengal Bouts commence with the quarterfi­nals Sunday, it'll be a whole dif-' ferent story. 
"The first live one is so much different than sparring," said Bengal Bouts President Toby Biolchini, who earned the top seed in the 135-pound weight class. 
Indeed it will be different for the majority of the field, which is inexperienced in comparison to previous years. Only ten fi­nalists, including three cham­pions. have returned this year to make another run at a title. 
"I think this is one of the bet­ter years because of the even-
MEN'S BASKETBAll 
ness of the field," coach Tom Suddes said. "We-don't have quite the dominance this year. which opens it up for a bunch of new kids." 
Gone is three-year champion Jeff Goddard and long gone is four-year title holder Jeff Gerber. Taking their place as top names in this year's campus boxing championships are defending champions Andy Dicello (145 pounds), John Christoforetti (165) and Troy Phillips (200). 
But with only ten out of 102 total boxers with championship experience, all 15 weight class­es are pretty much up for grabs. 
"This year, the talent is there," Biolchini said. "It's just a question of how they'll do in the ring." 
The fate of some of the first­year boxers has already been decided, as there is always one 
or two in every weight class 
paired with the top seeds, which 
almost always equals a quick 
exit. Some of the veterans, how­
ever, received first round byes. 
But in a tournament as con­
densed as this, getting a bye is a . lot like kissing your sister. 
"It can almost be a disadvan­
tage if you're the top seed," 
Biolchini said. "It's good to get 
in and get warmed up in the 
quarterfinals. But on the other 
hand, you do run less of a risk 
of getting a serious injury." 
Chip Farrell, the top seed in 
the 160-pound division, might 
enjoy his first round bye this 
year. The sophomore received a 
deep cut over the bridge of his 
nose in the 17 5-pound division 
a year ago, nearly forcing him 
out of the competition. He 
fought through the blood to the 
see BOUTS I page 18 

Hall hopes to solidify NIT bid against Irish 
By TIM SEYMOUR Associate Sports Editor 

When Seton Hall comes to the Joyce Center for tomor­row's 4:00 p.m. tip, Irish fans could be forgiven for believing that Providence, Wednesday night's opponent, had returned in slightly lighter uni­forms. 
Indeed, the parallels between the Pirates and the Friars are too difficult to ignore. 
Both are growing more com­fortable with their young, en­thusiastic second year head coaches -Seton Hall's George Blaney and Providence's Pete Gillen. 
Both are led by solid if un­heralded performers -Adrian Griffin and Danny Hurley from the Pirates. Austin Croshere and Michael Brown from the Friars. 
And both are fighting for their post-season lives. 
This last similarity propelled Providence to a narrow victory over the Irish. and is what L______-'!!'!!!!!":::.------------___l makes the Pirates more dan-The Observer/Mike Ruma gerous than the average Big Junior point guard Admore White will test his skills East opponent. against Seton HaH's Danny Hurley, little brother of 
Seton Hall (11-13, 7 -9) has Duke legend Bobby. 
an outside shot at the NIT with a strong finish and a couple of wins in the confer­ence tournament. 
But if the Pirates mean to start the stretch run on Saturday, they will have to contend with an Irish squad that endured a painful lesson against Seton Hall's mirror image. 
"We have to improve our defensive intensity," said center Marcus Young. "That's what we learned from the (Providence) game -that we have to play hard for 40 minutes." 
"We have to attack whatever pressure they throw at us," agreed point guard Admore White. 
see IRISH I page 16 

;,, WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
Erasing the past 
Irish travelto Connecticut for nationally 
televised rematch with Big East leaders 
By TODD FITZPATRICK Sports Writer 
This time things will be different. 
These sentiments have been echoed by players and coaches alike on the Irish women's basketball team. When Notre Dame travels to Connecticut this weekend for a nationally televised bat­tle with the defending,•• national champion Fli Huskies, they will attempt to erase the painful memories of an 87-64 defeat more than one month ago. 
Now the Irish are 19­
5. They are the No. 23 ranked team in the nation. They have steamrolled through the Big East Conference to earn a first-round bye in the conference tourna­ment. An NCAA tour­nament bid is within their grasp. A win over Connecticut is next on their list. 
"We're more prepared than the last time we played them. We've made some adjustments. We're going into the game with an aggressive defense and a good atti­tude," commented Irish center Katryna Gaither. 
Ask Irish head coach Muffet McGraw if her team enters this game with a dift:erent attitu~e, .__._.._ 
the last contest, the Irish were con­cerned with earning a national ranking. Now that Notre Dame has earned respect nationally, they can focus on the game itself. 
"We don't have to win the game to get ranked. The hostile environment in 
see UCONNI page 16 
The Observer/Brent Tadsen 

and she WI.ll a~~wer ,with Junior center Katryna Gaither will have her hands full with a resoundmg Yes. In UConn center Kara Wolters and the rest of the "Huskies." 
Men's Basketball Men's and Women's Tennis 
• Hockey faces big weekend 

-
vs: Seton Hall, February 24, 4 p.m. at National Indoors, February 22-25 see page 28 
Women's Basketball 
Track 

at Connecticut, February 24, 3 p.m. 
Alex Wilson Invitational, Feb. 23-24 
• Cross country set for NCAA's 
.. 
Hockey SMC Sports see page 26 

at Miami (OH), February 23 Swimming at Liberal Arts Invitational, 
February 22-24 • Volleyball eyes Big East tourney see page 24 
at Bowling Green, February 24 



