-------~---. ---­

Tuesday, March 19, 1996 • Vol. XXVII No. 107 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
• CAMPUS LIFE COUNCIL 
O'Hara withholds approval of coresidentiality 
By BILL CONNOLLY coresidentiality, according to a it resolved that the CLC recom­ation of such an option should "designed to determine priori­As.istant Nrws Editor letter written by O'Hara and mends that the Vice President be guided by the CLC's ties and needs for the next stage received by CLC members yes­for Student Affairs considers expressed opinion on coresi­of the University's develop­
V i c e 
terday. and accepts the values and con­dentiality and the proposed ment." President of O'Hara's decision regarding cerns articulated in the model -which is the Council's O'Hara cited the conversion of Student the resolutions was the subject Council's report on coresiden­vision of what this senior coresi­Flanner and Grace into office Affairs of discussion at the Campus Life tiality." dential housing option might space as a principle of the Patricia Council's meeting yesterday. The second resolution con­look like." Colloquy. Further, O'Hara cited O'Hara can­The resolutions sent by the CLC tinues, "Be it resolved that the O'Hara explained her decision the Colloquy's support of a num­not presently to O'Hara discussed the values CLC recommends that the Vice by citing the Colloquy for the ber of priorities in student life. approve the and faults of co-residentiality President for Student Affairs Year 2000, a statement from the Yet, the Committee on Student Campus Life and provided a model on how to develops and implements a administration which was com­Life which helped formulate the Council's two implement coresidentilaity. senior coresidential housing pleted in May 1993. This state­n~solutions on The first resolution states, "Be option at Notre Dame. The ere-ment, according to O'Hara, was 
see CLC I page 4 

Against all odds: 
ND grad runs 

for U.S. Senate 
By BRAD PRENDERGAST New' Editor 
When Illinois Sen. Paul Simon announced that he was retiring this year from his seat in the 
U.S. Senate, thn Hepublican Party tapped Lt. Cov. Bob Kustra to carry the GOP nomination into the Novt~mbnr election against the l>mnocrats' candidate. It was a nomination that seemml rather sncure -after all, Kustra had the hacking of Gov. .lim Edgar and other top-ranking Illinois c;op ligures. 
But then along carne AI Salvi. 
Salvi, a IIJH2 graduate of Notre Dame with a hadwlor's dngrne in government and currontly a statP represm1tativn from Wauconda, Ill., has rnuddlml thn GOP primary with a mrent surge that has. more than doubled his support throughout tlw state. 
During today's stat«~ primary, the strength of that support -which has grown from 10 per­cent in tlw third week of .January to 21 percent at the .beginning of' March, according to a Chicago Tribunn poll-is being put to its linal tnst. 
As of early Mareh, Salvi remained about 25 pnrcentage points behind Kustra, but an aggressive advertising campaign in recent wnnks, eouplml with the fact that more than 26 pnrcnnt of the voters recently said they were undecided, has ensured that-neither eandidate will rest nasy until day's nnd. 
The eore of Salvi's campaign rests on a three­pronged platform characteristic of the young eonsnrvativ•~ H•~publieans currently serving in 
'Qne of the reasons I'm running is I don't think Bob Kustra can get nominated by the Republican Party.' 
Al Salvi 


Congress. lie advocates lowering taxes and cutting spending in order to reduce the size of the federal government, opposes abortion rights and federal funding of abortion, and sup­ports legislation protecting the rights of legal gun owners. 
It is Salvi's ardent support of this trifecta, and his belief that Ku!?tra bas strayed away from these policies, that compelled Salvi to enter the Republican race. 
see SALVI/ page 4 


GLND/SMC requests status as ND group 
By JAMIE HEISLER Associate News Editor 
In response to the Ad Hoc Committee Report on Gay and Lesbian Student Needs released February 29, GLND/SMC submitted a letter yesterday to Vice President of Student Affairs Patricia O'Hara requesting that they be allowed to serve as the "University group of gay and lesbian stu­dents" advocated in the report. 
According to .John Blandford, president of GLND/SMC, "We're trying in a non-confrontational way to take what we thought was important and central to the ad hoc report and place ourselves on the table as part of any resolution to come about." 
The ad hoc committee was assembled nearly a year ago by O'Hara with the purpose of de­termining the best means of 
see REQUEST I page 6 

Ex-SMC student loses life to terminal illness 
By MAUREEN HURLEY Saint Mary's News Editor 
Meghan Conley loved sports, choir, and Saint Mary's. Now, the Saint Mary's community mourns the loss of a fellow stu­
dent and remembers a friend. 
"Meghan loved every­thing about Saint Mary's, even the class work, 


along with Conley the whole 
ambiance of the school," said her mother, Kitty Conley. 
Conley died March 12 of kid­ney failure at Saint Anthony Medical Center following an 18-year battle with a chronic kidney disease. 
"She had more life than any­one I ever knew. She didn't want anyone to be upset about anything, no matter what. Even at her worst, she didn't want anyone to think she was sick," said Amy Lalick, her best friend from Saint Mary's. "When she was in the hospital, 
see CONLEY I page 6 


Report ranks ND Law School and COBA in top 50 
1\y JAMIE HEISLER 
A"oci.uc News Editor 
Aeeording to the annual U.S. News and World Heport's rank­ings of graduate schools, thn Notrn Dame Law School places 25th among nationally aecrmlitml insti­tutions, and the Collnge of Businnss Administration places 41st among 292 accredited MBA programs. 
l·:ach year the magazine ranks various forms of graduate sehools, inc:luding law schools, MBA pro­grams, medical srhools, engineer­ing programs, and numerous other spneialty programs in ordnr to determine thn best schools in the nation. 
Each form of school has different eriteria which arn judged to deter­mine the rankings. According to Denny Moore, director of Notre Dame public relations, however, the effort to rank schools on limit­nd eriteria leaves out factors which arn not as easily measured. 


"Our position on rankings has consistently been that it is ex­tremely difficult to rank schools because there are so many dif­ferences between schools, for example dill'erent missions and dif­ferent backgrounds," he said. "IHanking schools! is an arbitrary process, and it's natural to want to do that. It must be looked on with skepticism, however." 
Professor David Link, dean of the Law School. agrees that the rank­ings are not comprehensive enough to be true judges of quality in schools. "It's virtually impossi­ble to do these national rankings and have them be accurate. Schools are so different, and it's hard to get objective eriteria with quality," he said. 
Law schools across the nation were ranked on five factors: stu­dent selectivity, placement success, faculty resources, reputation, and overall rank. These factors com­bined gave the Notre Dame Law Sehool a score of 82.4 out of 100. 
According to Link, this ranking is fair in one sense but inaceurate in another. "We are appreciative of being ranked in the top tier, and feel they [U.S. News and World Report! do as good a job as they can. However, we are just as good as some people ranked ahead of us, and some people with lower scores are just as good as we are." 
One of the problems with the ranking system, according to Assistant Dean of the Law School Joe Bauer, is that it ranks on pure­ly quantitative measures, not qual­itative measures. lie feels that when quality is taken into consid­
see RANKINGS/ page 4 
Top 25 Law Schools 
*according to U.S. News and World Report 
1. 
Yale University 

2. 
Harvard University 

3. 
Stanford University 

4. 
University of Chicago 

5. 
Columbia University 

6. 
New York University 

7. 
University of Michigan 

8. 
University of Pennsylvania 

9. 
University of Virginia 

10. 
Duke University 

11. 
Cornell University 

12. 
Georgetown University 

13. 
University of Cal-Berkeley 

14. 
Northwestern University 

15. 
University of Southern Cal 

16. 
Vanderbilt University 

17. 
University of Cal-Los Angeles 

18. 
University of Texas-Austin 

19. 
University of Illinois-Urbana 

20. 
Washington and Lee University 

21. 
University of Minnesota-Twin Cities 

22. 
George Washington University 

23. 
Emory University 

24. 
University of Washington 

25. 
University of Notre Dame 


~-~------­

page 2 The Observer • INSIDE Tuesday, March 19, 1996 
• INsm~: Cm..uMN • Wmu.o AT A GtA~CE 


Resigned to the 
•


ruin 

The nature of the headlines deserved a Catherine Deely scream, but rather Assistant Accent Editor came as a somber dec­laration of horror: sixteen children, all too young even to comprehend the definition of evil, gunned down in a Scotland elementary school. 
By now, we all know the story only too well: seriously disturbed gunman with a grudge takes it upon himself to exact a method of revenge, making sense only within the twisted confines of his own madness. 
The world reeled from the unspeakable tragedy, but amidst the whirl of emotions pouring out-revulsion, sorrow, lament and rage-one was conspicuously absent: com­plete shock. While it is impossible to deny the impact of the murders, it is a sad but never­theless true reality: in this day and age, acts of sickening violence are fast becoming com­monplace. 
I don't know exactly which of the equally horrific incidents of the recent past triggered the seemingly unprecedented streak of vio­lence ... whether it was the World Trade Center disaster, Susan Smith, the Oklahoma City bombing, all or none of the above. But the fact remains that with each gruesome newscast and heartrending page of photos in "Newsweek," we become more and more dis­heartened with the world we live in ... and, while we will never accept the carnage, with each stomach-turning and heartbreaking front page article, we become that much more resigned. 
I can remember when the issue of violence in America's schools first garnered national attention. I can also remember the first specif­ic incidence of such violence to strike me directly. 
It was 1993, and a sixteen-year-old fresh­man named Jason Robinson was stabbed to death by three other teenagers-in his own suburban Massachusetts classroom. Along with many of my friends and classmates, I was devastated by the thought that something so grossly unfair and horrible could happen to someone so close to home. I have never for­gotten it. 
Yet as time passed, reports of violence-in and out of school-seemed to become daily fixtures. 
And with each murder, mass execution, and act of terrorism, the responses seemed to become more and more the same: a sigh, a shrug, and a resigned, "Well, that's the world we live in now." 
But does it really have to be? 
And do we really have to get used to it? 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 

News Production Deborah Schultz Jana Bruder Kelly Brooks Mike Norbut 
Sports Viewpoint Kathleen Lopez Meaghan Smith 
Graphics Lab Tech Tom Roland 
Katie Kroener 

Electrical fire at North Carolina rest home kills eight 
LAURINBURG, N.C. 

A fire apparently ignited by an electri­cal outlet that was too close to a bed sent smoke billowing through a rest home, killing eight residents and forcing of others to flee. 
The victims of Sunday night's fire the Scotch Meadow Rest Home r from 60 to 85 years old. 
The one-story brick building "a tremendous amount of smoke dam­age," Sheriff Wayne Bryant said. 
The fire apparently was started by an 
uncovered electrical outlet in a roomL-----''"'----...L..L-'"'----:--:J "They did pretty well, considering 
shared by two men, Bryant said. 
A bed had been pushed up to the outlet and the bed­clothes caught fire, Bryant said. One of the men escaped but the other did not, he said at a news conference. 
"There were a couple of bodies that were charred but most died from smoke," Bryant said. State pathologists planned autopsies. 
Blankets and a hospital bed littered the front yard early today and investigators' yellow tape surrounded the ranch-style building. Little structural damage was visible. 
"To be honest with you, I don't know what to say," said Ron Danella, owner of the 60-bed rest home outside Laurinburg. 
Clinton talks defend free trade policies 
NEW ORLEANS 
In a strong defense of his free-trade policies, President Clinton said today economically insecure Americans must allow the country "to reach out to the rest of the world." Clinton dedicated a new terminal at the Port of New Or­leans, 34 years after President John F. Kennedy opened a terminal at the same· port. Borrowing a free-trade slogan from his political hero Kennedy, Clinton said America has "to trade or fade." The North American Free Trade Agreement is key to the future of this port, which sup­ports 95,000 jobs and generates $11.4 billion of business a year. The president's visit to New Orleans was de­signed to make political inroads in one of the few south­ern states Clinton could win in November's general elec­tions. The former Arkansas governor also plans to ad­dress troops that served in Haiti, an operation that the White House believes is a major foreign-policy success for the president. On free trade, Clinton acknowledged the insecurity of many Americans dealing with shrinking paychecks and the prospect of layoffs. 

Deaths result from tainted oxygen 
TEMPLE, Texas 
Another veterans hospital patient who used newly in­stalled oxygen equipment last week has died, bringing the toll from the possibly contaminated oxygen to four, officials say. Spokeswoman Liz Crossan confirmed tlie latest death at Olin E. Teague Veterans Center. The cen­tral oxygen system at the center was switched to equip­ment provided by a new contractor Wednesday morning. Within 15 minutes, workers smelled an odor coming from it. The 89 patients who had been breath_ing oxygen from the system were switched to bottled oxygen, but three died later that day and the fourth died over the weekend. The other patients will remain on bottled oxygen until the system can be made safe, Ms. Crossan said. "Something like this has never happened before," Ms. Crossan said. "So far, our efforts to purge the system have failed, so we will have to bri"ng in outside consultants." "I want to emphasize that we still don't know if any of these deaths were related to the oxygen contamination," Ms. Crossan said. 


Fire doors separating the men's and women's sides closed automatically and helped keep the fire from spreading, Danella said. 
Two of the 40 surviving residents were treated for smoke inhalation. Most were taken to a motel and six went to a ours­ing home. 
"It feels mighty good to be alive. I want three or four more Christmases," said Ernest Monroe, 85, sitting in a hotel room this morning amid piles of clothes and wheelchairs. 
everything that happened," said Maxine Nicholson, a nursing assistant who helped care for the residents at the motel. "We got everybody calmed down." 
"It's unbelievable," said Glenda Wright, who visited the home every week with members of her church. 
"It was just like family," she said. "Whenever I was down, I would just come out here and they would lift up my spirits." 
Marie Hamilton, whose father-in-law was one of the evacuees, said she knew one of the victims, 72-year-old Lacy Goodwin. 
"He was a good man. He'd give you the shirt off his back," she said. 
Passenger train collides with truck 
MOBILE, Ala. 

Amtrak's Sunset Limited passenger train hit a truck at a suburban crossing Monday morning, injuring two crew­men and the truck driver in a fiery crash. The train did not derail and none of the 170 passengers was injured, Amtrak spokesman Marc Magliari said. The coast-to­coast Sunset Limited struck the tractor-trailer rig shortly after 7 a.m. at a crossing in Tillman's Corner, 10 miles west of Mobile, in a warehouse area often busy with truck traffic. The train hit the truck's trailer, tearing it apart and throwing wreckage into a swamp. The truck's cargo of paint and paint thinner caught fire, along with some of the train's diesel fuel. The cause of the wreck was not immediately known. The crossing is marked by a stop sign and a crossbucks warning sign, but no flashing lights or drop bars. Normal track speed in the area is 79 mph, Magliari said. Tommy Richardson, who operates a business about a half-mile from the track, said there is a blind spot at the crossing, with motorists stopped at the tracks unable to get a clear view in one direetion. CSX officials were at the scene but wouldn't comment. Officials of the company that owned the truck, CF Trucking, also declined to comment. 
American cars stand up to Japanese 
DETROIT 

Japanese cars still hold the edge in reliability, but 
computers on American vehicles are narrowing the gap, 
Consumer Reports said Monday. Acura and Infiniti, the 
luxury lines of Honda and Nissan, were the brands with 
the fewest problems reported by owners. General Motors' 
Saturn and Geo were best among American brands. 
Volvo and BMW were the most reliable Europeans. "The 
high-tech-ness creates a performance level that's pretty 
comparable across the board," said Bob Knoll, who runs 
the magazine's auto testing program. "We used to rate 
something called 'drivability' '---cars used to stumble, 
stall, have trouble starting. Today's cars are running ex­
tremely well." The coughing and slow starting that once 
plagued some cars and trucks have nearly disappeared 
from today's new vehicles, thanks to on-board computers 
aimed at reducing pollution. Brakes are another area 
where technology has evened out the competition. Knoll 
said anti-lock brakes work so well "it has made our 
brake testing even more routine than ever before." 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
Atlanta  67  48  Dallas  61  44  New Orleans 79  55  
Baltimore 60  40  Denver  38  24  New York  59  42  
Boston  54  34  Los Angeles 75  59  Philadelphia 59  38  
Chicago  49  22  Miami  81  71  Phoenix  83  54  
Columbus 48  36  Minneapolis 33  26  St. Louis  52  41  

Tuesday, March 19, 1996 The Observer· CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Week of events addresses student diversity Tornado 
By MATTHEW LOUGHRAN 
News Writer 
In Oetober of 1990, Denver youth Shaka franklin shot him­self to death. Since then, in an effort to curb teen suicide, his father Les has traveled aeross the United Stales and Canada speaking on issues of raee, teen drug abuse, and suieide. 
lie brings his mnssage to the Notre Dame eampus today at 
7:30 p.m. in a leeture at the Center for Soeial Coneerns opening the events for Human Hights Week. 
Franklin founded the Shaka Franklin Foundation shortly al't11r his son's death to help young people deal with thn problems that might lead them to mnsider suicide. llis lecture will addrnss issues of race and ethnieity and how they affeet the youth of today. 
Human Hights Week is a se­ries of events sponsored by Keenan, Lewis, Lyons, and Pasquerilla East Halls. 
"This week is meant to cele­brate and learn about the di­versity that exists in the Notre Dame community," said Miguel Berastain, also one of the direc­tors of Human Hights Week. 
Thursday's event will be a panel discussion of admissions standards, financial aid, and faculty hiring. This panel will include Joe Husso from the Of­fice of Finaneial Aid, Kathy Riddick of the Gender Studies Program, Susan Joyce of the Admissions Office, and Martin Murphy from the Anthropology Department. It will take place in 1 02 Debartolo Hall at 7:30 
p.m. Friday, there will be a presentation of the Native American experience at Notre Dame. 

This presentation will be given by Andrea Topash in the Lyons Hall Chapel at 7:30 p.m. and will be followed by de'monstrations of cultural arts such as Martial Arts and danc­ing at 9:00 p.m. in the base­ment of Keenan Hall. Directly following the demonstrations, the music group Sabor Latino will give a eoneert also in the Keenan basement. 
Saturday, the focus shifts to religious diversity and student experience. The day starts with a panel discussion of religious diversity with Rev. David Bur­rell, Professor Roland Smith and some Notre Dame students at 12:30 p.m. in the basement of Lewis Hall. Later in the day, there will be video presenta­tions on diversity in the base­ments of the sponsoring dorms at 6 p.m. This will be followed by a student panel discussion in 
HullUln Rlghh Week and Diversity Celebration 
Wednesday, March 20 
Olsoosslon:·~ues ol Race. ~mtor tor Social Hhruti~; and today~ Yoolll" Concort~S 
Thursday, Marcl1 21 Oi$CU$Si0/t 'AJIIrmaflve 10.1 PeB;rtolo
A<:llon all4 NOlie Dame' 



the basement of Keenan Hall at 8 p.m. The week culminates in the celebration of the "Diversity Day" Mass in the Keenan/Stanford Chapel at 4:30 
p.m. The Mass will feature the Coro Primavera de Nuestra Senora and the Voices of Faith Gospel Choir. 
Garvey debates internet censorship 
By HEATHER COCKS 
fu>istanr News Ediwr 
Opponents of the Communi­cations Decency Act have a le­gitimate argument against the art's eonstitu­tinnality, according to .John (;arvey, professor of law at Notre 
Danw. 
Tacked onto the Tnleeom-

Garvey

munications Bill rneently approved by Congress, tlw aet prohibits the prnsenee of indeeenl material on the World Wide Web. 
In addition. personal e-mail may pass through censors who an~ responsible for seanning the text for inappropriate con­
tPnl. 
Apple Computer, Inc. is one of many eompanies taking legal action against the restrictions. Along with numerous other op­ponents, they cite the First Amendment as their defense, claiming that the act is a bla­tant violation of the right to freedom of speech and expres­sion. 
Garvey is sympathetic to the basic intentions behind the Act, but he states that these same motivations are eonflicting with the ideas inherent to the First Amendment. "It's hard to seg­regate the users of the World Wide Web," he said. "Information is available to anyone beeause no matter what they tell you, you can't see who is really moving the mouse." 
This allows ehildren to obtain pornographic or otherwise ob­scene material with relative ease. Garvey believes that "this makes it so hard to reach a fea­sible middle-ground. Therefore, either users of all ages must face the restrictions, or no restrictions should be set. It's all or nothing at the mo­ment." 

A recent ruling in Philadel­phia delayed the activation of the act, pending further discus­sion and review. Garvey notes that opponents of Internet cen­sorship do have a valid claim, but adds that the issue will probably not be a dead one even if the act is overturned. "Society has successfully re­stricted the availability of cer­tain magazines, as well as in­fluencing the content of televi­sion and radio programs during certain hours," he said. "These preeedents lead one to assume that some sort of resolution will eventually be reached without completely revoking freedom of expression on the World Wide Web." 
Until such time, however. the debate rages on, espeeially con­cerning what age eonstitutes "too young" to gain Internet ae-
Arts and Letters Fair 
Wednesday, March 20 6:30-8:30 p.m. Monogram Room -JACC 
All Majors, Programs, Concentrations, and Area Studies will be represented 
Students in Business, Science, Engineering, and Architecture, as well as Arts and Letters, are welcome to investigate these programs 
cess. "1 think total censorship is a bad idea," commented one Notre Dame junior. "Parents should be the ones to decide whether they trust their kid not to abus'e Internet privileges. There's no reason to treat users of all ages like they're thirteen year-olds." 
"If we're old enough to vote, we're definitely old enough to be responsible for our own use of the Internet," added a Knott Hall sophomore. 
Arguably a greater violation of privacy comes with the po­tential review of private e-mail for both language and indecent content. Garvey views this as a problem of lesser magnitude. "With person-to-person mail, you know exactly who the recipient is. It's different than publishing something on the Net for anyone to read." 
A Dillon Hall freshman con­curs. "It's ridiculous to censor personal mail. You know who you're writing to, and you can judge the text for yourself. That should not be eategorized with adding rude stuff to a Web page which can be aecessed by anyone." 
For the moment, the future of the act remains in limbo; stu· dents and other users will not immediately be dealing with total censorship. "The conflict with the prineiples of the First Amendment is very real," says Garvey. "I imagine that this will be a prolonged debate. I cer· tainly haven't heard of any en­forcement of the act as of yet. 
"So no one should be losing sleep just yet over the odd word or two in their last E-Mail," he added. 
awareness lessens risk 
Special to The Observer 
Tornado Awareness Week is March 18-22, included will be a county wide test between 10 
a.m. and 11 a.m. on Wednes­day March 20. To heighten campus awareness of torna­does and tornado emergeney procedures, the Hisk Manage­ment and Safety Department is providing the following infor­mation. 
Tornado "weather" is an at­moshperic eondition typified by hot, humid days, southerly winds and darkening skies. Huge greenish-black thunder­douds usually appear an hour or two before the tornadoes form. Rain, and frequently hail. precede and follow torna­does. The time during which most tornadoes occur is between 3 p.m. and 7 p.m. When close by, tornadoes sound like the roar of jet planes at takeoff. 
A tornado is reeognizable by the funnel-shaped eloud which appears from the southwest and travels at about 30 miles per hour. 
It spins rapidly, with whirling winds which can exceed 300 miles per hour on the perime­ter, and extends toward the earth from the base of a thun­dercloud. 
When it touches down, it is often 300 yards wide. Its destructive force results from the speed of its exterior winds and the vacuum in its interior which creates large differences in the air pressure. 
A tornado wateh means that conditions are favorable for the development of tornadoes. A tornado warning is issued when a tornado has been sighted either visually or on radar, and Notre Dame is in its path. 
The St. Joseph Emergeney Management Tornado Warning system will activate the siren atop the Fire Station. 
For a tornado emergency, the siren will issue a steady tone for approximately three minutes. 
When a warning sounds pro­ceed with the following action: 
1) Take shelter in the nearest substantial building immedi­ately. 
Avoid windows, auditoriums, and gyms. If time does not permit lie flat in a ravine or ditch. 2) Go to the basement or to an interior corridor, or closet. 
Graduating soon? No job yet? 
Ever considered working in sports? 
For 8 years Sports Careers has provided products and services for sports industry joh seekers, including The Insider newsletter (puhlished twice a month with 60-75 currently available internships and jobs in sales, marketing, public relations, journalism and management each issue), an automated resume bank and more. 
For subscription information call ... 


SfORIS
CAREERS 
1-800-SPORT-77 
~-------~--------~----~------------------------------------------------------~------~ 
page 4 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS Tuesday, March 19, 1996 
CLC 
continued from page 1 
Colloquy was split on coresiden­tiality according to O'Hara. Thus, it was not placed in the Colloquy. 
As a result, O'Hara said that "these resolutions would dis­place other priorities that emerged in the Colloquy in derogation of a planning process that involved extensive partici­pation by faculty, administrators and students." 
O'Hara also provided addi­tional thoughts on why coresi­dentiality would be wrong at this time, the most important of which is Notre Dame's "rel­atively unique" model of resi­dential living. She believes the existing system has served the University's residential mission well. 
"If we believed that coed housing was a better model than our existing system for accomplishing our residential mission, there is no reason that we could not create coed hous-
Salvi 
continued from page 1 
"Kustra's on the losing end of all three," Salvi told the Chicago Tribune. "One of the reasons I'm running is I don't think Kustra, with his record, can get nominated by the Republican Party. and I don't think he can win in November." 
Salvi's membership in the Republican Party itself is inter­esting, considering· that his fa­ther ran for the Illinois Senate in 1966 and again in 1968 as a Democrat. But the younger Salvi said that during his stay at Notre Dame, he found that the conservative politics of Republicans such as Ronald Reagan were more in tune with his interests. 
"I had read about what a nut [Reagan] was," Salvi said, "but when I heard his first inaugur­al address, I was profoundly af­fected by it." 
After obtaining his law degree from the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, Salvi decided to bring his con­servative views into the politi­ing that would honor and rein­force our behavioral ex­pectations of students. We are not convinced, however, that coed housing is a better model for us at this point in our insti­tutional history." 

Further, O'Hara cited various changes at the University such as an increase in gender and racial diversity, and an increase in familial and developmental issues for students. These issues cause her to believe that "our existing halVsingle-sex dorm system and our current staffmg configurations and long tradi­tion of strong communities pro­vides the best framework within which to absorb and address these changes at this point." 
In addition, O'Hara does not believe "that single-sex halls are the root cause of the challenges that we face in the area of gen­der relations," even though a support for coresidentiality might imply this. 
O'Hara concluded that "Uni­versities are not static places. At the present time we believe that retaining our current system better serves our residential 
cal arena. Now in his second term as a state representative, Salvi has continually promoted the idea of the family as the focal point of his politics. 
"To me, everything revolves around the family," said Salvi, a father of four children between ages 1 and 6. "It's hard to raise a family now, and to me, that's the No. 1 issue. 
Among the other planks of Salvi's platform: 
• 
Tax reforms would be insti­tuted that would let, for exam­ple, the first $36,000 earned by a family of four be non-taxable. Income, including capital gains, over that level would be taxed at a flat 16 percent, and chari­table contributions and interest on home mortgages would be the only deductions allowed. 

• 
Congressmen would be bound by term limits of no more than 12 years in office. 

• 
All criminals would be re­quired to serve at least 85 per­cent of their sentences before becoming eligible for parole. 

• 
Legislation would be passed penalizing fathers delinquent on their child-support pay­ments by stripping them of owning a driver's license. 



meeting also called for recogni­tion of GLND/SMC. She did this because she believes the mem­bers of the ad hoc committee who are also on the CLC were held back by the administra­tion's mandate that the ad hoc committee could not ask for recognition of GLND/SMC. 
However, several members of the CLC believed Preacher's res­olution to be premature since O'Hara had not yet responded to the ad hoc committee's propos­als. Further, O'Hara had reject­ed recognition of GLND/SMC last year, and restating this resolu­tion could do more harm than good, members argued. 
Patrick searched to resolve this dispute by creating a new resolution which could be sent to O'Hara in order to advise her on the issue before she makes a decision. 
As a result, Patrick put forth a motion for continued discussion of the issue next week, where­upon a member of the CLC could submit a resolution in order to advise O'Hara. The motion passed, and a resolution is expected next week. 

mission and offers more benefits than a switch to a mix of single­sex and coed housing options. Nonetheless, in future reviews of this question, the report of the CLC offers observations that will be of help to us." 
Most of the CLC expressed dis­appointment over O'Hara's statements. Tom Matzzie, presi­dent of the judicial council, wor­ried that O'Hara was too quickly discarding the opinions of an important organization. 
Father George Rozum, a member of the council, coun­tered by saying, "She says our observations will be of help to her office in formulating any further policy. She doesn't say the resolutions will be discard­ed." 
However, Matzzie maintained that O'Hara was acting hastily by rejecting the CLC's ideas and saying the University was "stat­ic" at the same time. 
Father Patrick Sullivan, a council member, ended this exchange by stating that as a representative of the adminis­tration, O'Hara can't waver from the Colloquy. According to 
Sullivan, the only ones who can 
make  an  exception  to  the  
Colloquy  is  the  Board  of  
Trustees.  
Student  Body  President  

Jonathan Patrick agreed, and proposed the CLC form a sub­committee to develop a broader version of the CLC's resolution on coresidentiality to be pre­sented to the Board when the CLC meets with the Board dur­ing the first week of April. Sullivan emphasized that this new report should be made only after reviewing the Colloquy. Further, Sullivan advised the subcommittee to highlight the model for coresidentiality as an experiment which should be tested. 
This new committee will meet 'before the next CLC meeting on March 25, and will present their report to the entire CLC then. 
In other CLC news, the Council continued discussing the Ad Hoc Committee on Gay and Lesbian Student Needs' recent report. Ava Preacher, assistant dean of the College of Arts and Letters, commented that the resolution she submitted at the last CLC 
Rankings 
continued from page 1 

eration as well, the Notre Dame Law School has more to offer than many of the schools ranked ahead of them. 
"The criteria are incomplete," he said. "Many things go into the quality of a law student education." He cites two bene­fits which Notre Dame offers students and which are not considered in the rankings. 
"At least two areas exist be­cause Notre Dame is a Catholic law school. The first is that we expose students to moral and ethical questions. We raise normative questions in a way that others don't," according to Bauer. "The second benefit is the nature of the community here. With only 525 students, there is a very close relation­ship between the students, and between the students and fac­ulty, which you don't get any­where else." 
The law school has moved up and down in the ratings in the past few years, at one point being as high as 19th. Last the international program opportunities. "They [U.S. News and World Heportl don't even look at facilities. There is no direct measurement when you see this facility and the technology the faculty are using," he said. "Foreign pro­grams also aren't measured. We have a very high percent­age of students that go [abroad). Here students get a good dose of the international framework." 
While the rankings are prob­lematic, they do indicate that Notre Dame's graduate pro­grams do not receive the same attention as the undergraduate programs which were ranked 18th in the country last year. According to Moore, the under­graduate program has tradi­tionally been the strength at Notre Dame. lie continues, however, that the University is taking steps to improve the graduate programs. 
"In recent years efforts have been made, without going to the extent of larger state and private institutions, to address the graduate programs. The idea is not to be huge but to be 'small but superb,"' he said. 

year the school was ranked 39th, and the fact that it moved up to 25th this year means a great deal, said Bauer. "It is something which is a combined result of what the law school has done and what the University has done," he said. 
The Notre Dame College of Business Administration moved up in the rankings as well, ranking 53rd in 1993, 47th last year, and 41st this year. Ac­cording to Dean Jack Keane of the business school, this climb­ing figure indicates the efforts that Notre Dame has put into improving the MBA program. 
"We want to get better and have a plan," he said. "It [the plan) is called the MBA Top 25 Improvement Plan and entails strategies for getting in the top 25 of all rankings." 
The business school was judged on four factors includ­ing student selectivity, place­ment success, reputation, and overall rank. The school received a ranking of 79.3 out of 100. 
Keane too agrees that Notre Dame offers many benefits that are not easily measured, including the new facilities and 
Graduation Student Worke.;s Catering 
$May 11-19 $ 
Free Room/Board. 
$6.50 per hour 
Room Contract Sign-ups: 
Monday, March 18 thru Friday, March 29 !0:00AM-4:30PM 
Saturday, March 30 
10:00AM-4:00PM 
Last day to sign housing contract is April 3. 
Catering Office Lower Level South Dining Hall 
631-5449 



Tuesday, March 19, 1996 The Observer· NATIONAL NEWS page 5 
Clinton presents balanced budget plan Salvi trial 
By ALAN FRAM That would be the first year billion in savings from As~odatt:d Pre~s the government completed with Medicare, $59 billion from 
Balancing act
black ink in its ledger book Medicaid. $40 billion from wel­WASIIINGTON since 1969. fare, plus $297 billion from Resident Clinton's 1997 budgetl'msident Clinton plans to un­Fiscal 2002 is the same year annually approved general gov­includes nearly $100 billion in tax cuts over the next seven years, about half
veil a fiscal 1997 budget Tues­Clinton and Hepublicans aimed ernment programs. 
that of the Republican plan. Both plans
day calling for nearly $100 bil­at for balancing the budget There would be $99.7 billion balance the budget in 2002. lion in tax cuts, doeuments during their yearlong, incon­in tax cuts -about half of what 1996 show. elusive fiscal battle last year. Hepublicans have proposed -$158 billion 
The plan also projects a bal­The president's decision to re­largely for families and small 
$~.
billion ,..·_·___ , . .__,,
anced budget by 2002 and tain 2002 as a target -which businesses. 
140 ..·i;·
assunws Clinton will strike a congressional Hepublicans plan The proposal retains Clinton's 
2002

deal with Hepublicans for some to do as well -reflects a desire tax credit for children, which 120­
100 -$7.6 quick savings. to avoid accusations that they would provide $500 when fully 80-billion Pages from the president's are letting their budget-balanc­phased in, and a new tax de­60··· DEFICIT Hlnction-year budget, obtained ing deadline slip. duction for college tuition, 
40­20 ..

by The Assoeiated Press, show The president's fiscal recipe which would be worth $10,000 
0------­

that Clinton expects a $164.2 follows the outline he released when fully put into effect. billion defieit in fiscal 1997, last month and offers he made The president was detailing 
1998 2000 2002

which begins Oct. 1, dropping during budget talks with his plan six weeks after he re­to a $7.6 billion surplus in Hl\publicans. leased an overview to satisfy a Source: OHice of Management and Budget AP 2002. It would rely mostly on $124 legal deadline. 
Amerkan.Expr~ss can provide. So why settle for an on&nary cr~. card? Dedare yourseH Cl Cardmember, fodqy. ~. , 
.~ ~ ~' . . .

To apply, tal~ ···· ·.. 
. """"-:\.·· •.• 
f8~ 
Tap into a new online resource: American Express University. Visit us at http://americanexpress.com/studenV 
©1996 American Express Travel Related Services Company, Inc. 
·· .. '. 
~: .•.,.. .,..< :~: 
~ '· ~ 

ends in conviction 
By MICHAEL TIGHE 
Associated Press 
DEDHAM, Mass. 

Rejecting claims that John Salvi Ill was driven by delu­sions of a vast anti-Catholic conspiracy, a jury Monday convicted him of murdering two women in a shooting ram­page at two abortion clinics. 
The 24-year-old loner re­ceived the mandatory sentence of life in prison with no parole for the 1994 attacks in the Boston suburb of Brookline. 
As the verdicts were read, Salvi, who had repeatedly dis­rupted proceedings earlier in the case with demands to air his conspiraey notions, stood quietly, staring vacantly or bowing his head, his dark tie crooked. 
The jury deliberated nine hours over two days. Four of' the six women on the jury cried as the verdicts were read, as did friends and rela­tives of the victims, and Salvi's mother. 
The drama was extended as victims and their relatives read "victim impaet statements" to the court just before the sen­tencing. 
"You were a little man with a big gun," Ruth Ann Nichols, mother of one of the victims, said as she stared at Salvi. "I hope you have sheer misery for every day of your life." 
Salvi's lawyer, J.W. CarnllY Jr., had argued that his client was innocent by reason of insanity, and he repeatedly had asked Judge Barbara Dortch-Okara to declare Salvi incompetent to stand trial. 
The defense contended that the aspiring hairdresser envi­sioned himself a warrior fight­ing a worldwide, anti-Catholic conspiracy led by the Mafia, Freemasons and the Ku Klux Klan. 
Prosecutors argued that Salvi was in control of his senses and d-eliberately planned his crime. 
They noted Salvi practiced at a firing range the day before the killings, stocked up on 1,000 super-deadly hollow­point bullets and cut his longish, curly hair hours after the attack. 
In closing arguments. prose­cutor John Kivlan asked: "Every terrorist in this country we should excuse because they have strange beliefs?" 
Rejecting the insanity defense, the jury convicted Salvi of two counts of first-de­gree murder and five of assault with intent to murder. First-degree murder carries a mandatory sentence of life without parole . 
Massachusetts has no death 
penalty. 
If Salvi had been found inno­cent by reason of insanity, he would have been eommittcd to a mental hospital and could have bcm1 reh\asnd if authori­ties deemed hn was no longer a danger. 
Salvi walked into a Planned Parenthood clinie on Dec. 30, 1994, pulled out a .22-ealibcr rifle and opened fire. Receptionist Shannon Lowney, 25, was killed and three other people in the waiting room were wounded. 
Then, he drove his pickup about two miles to thn Pretnrm Health Services elinie and opened fire again, killing receptionist Lee Ann Nichols, 38, and wounding two others. 

page 6 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS Tuesday, March 19, 1996 
Request 
continued from page 1 
serving the gay and lesbian community on the Notre Dame campus. Accompanying this goal, however, was the man­date given by O'Hara that GLND/SMC could not be recog­nized by the University as part of the solution. 
Blandford, however, feels that GLND/SMC must be a part of any proposed resolution of the ad hoc report because it is in fact made up of the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's gay and les­bian community. "GLND/SMC is the gay and lesbian group on campus. If another group is formed without working with GLND/SMC, I don't know who 
Conley 
continued from page 1 
she'd always talk about how she wanted to get out of bed and back to class." 
Conley was a junior at Saint Mary's majoring in history and education. She was a McCand­less Hall resident during the 1993-94 academic year. 
Junior Hegina Gemco said, "She was one of the sweetest girls I've ever met. I wasn't aware of her medical problems until she told me about it. lt never got in the way of any­thing for her." 
While she was on medical leave from Saint Mary's follow­ing her freshman year, she maintained her studies at Pur­due University Calumet. 
"When her acceptance letter from Saint Mary's came, ev­eryone within screaming range could hear it," said Kitty Con­ley. "Since she was three, Meghan never wanted to go would go to the group," he said. "I don't think there is a whole other group of gay and lesbian students on campus, and so who then would [the University­sponsored group] be serving?" 

Citing the support given last year by every representative body at Notre Dame as well as the positive evaluation of GLND/SMC included in the ad hoc report, the letter petitions for O'Hara to give serious attention to the benefits that GLND/SMC could provide if con­stituted as the group mentioned in the ad hoc report. 
"If the group mentioned in the report is solely a support one, it won't be ·adequate. That is only one piece of our group," said Blandford. "She [O'Hara] should take advantage of what we have built over the years." 
anyplace else." 

While at Saint Mary's, she was a member of the Saint Mary's/Notre Dame mixed choir, and served on the Notre Dame student manager's orga­nization. Last year, she devel­oped and coordinated a similar student manager's organization for Crown Point High School. 
"Meghan was a football fa­natic. She learned to read quarterbacks when Joe Mon­tana was still at Notre Dame," Kitty Conley said. 
Conley shared her love of sports with the freshman she worked with in the high school student manager program she initiated. "Each one of those freshman knows enough to teach others," Kitty Conley said. 
Lalick remembered singing with Conley in choir, long chats on the telephone, a spring break trip to Florida freshman year, and Flanner Mass on Sundays. "She was the first person here I really bonded with. We were inseparable," she said. "Meghan was the 
In response to the letter sub­mitted by GLND/SMC, O'Hara stated, "I have no response to make until I respond to the ad hoc committee's report [in April]." 
O'Hara's response to the ad hoc report will determine to a large extent what GLND/SMC's course of action will be in the upcoming months, according to Blandford. He said, "We're not desperate for a solution. We're in a strong position, and we're not going away. If there is a credible step forward, we'll work with it. If the University decides to operate around us, we will keep operating. It's not fair or just, but we've learned how to operate and we have a lot of support. This is a perfect opportunity to move forward, however." 
bright shining little sunshine in my life." 
"If there's ever anyone in the whole world that would have never given up, it was Meghan," Lalick said. "We could all learn from her that, even if we never know what's out there, we need to keep reaching for the stars." 
Conley is survived by her par­ents, Dennis and Kitty Conley and her brother, Breandan, of Crown Point, Ind. 
She made such an impact on her hometown that Sunday marked Crown Point's first an­nual Meghan Conley Saint Patrick's Day Parade. 
According to Campus Min­istry, plans for a memorial ser­vice at Saint Mary's have not yet been finalized. 
The Meghan Conley Scholar­ship fund for Student Managers has been established in her honor. Contributions can be sent c/o Paul Condry, Regional Radio Sports Network, 1502 E. North Street, Crown Point, IN 46307. 
GLND/SMC has attempted at two times in the past to receive recognition as a group from the University, first in 1986 and again in 1992. Both times their requests to Student Affairs were denied. Despite these rejections as well as the man­date given by O'Hara, Blandford feels several things have changed in the past year which facilitate the group's ac­ceptance by the University. 
"We're in a better position than in years past because first of all the Notre Dame commu­nity knows more now about GLND/SMC than before," he said. "Also, through the pro­cess, O'Hara has learned more about' the needs of students and what is involved in GLND/SMC. I hope that given the new in­formation she would reeva,luate 
Student Activities Employee Applications Available N ! 
Applications are being accept­ed from NOW until MARCH 22 for all positions in LaFortune Student Center (under the supervision of the Student Activities Office) and Stepan Center. 
Applications can be picked up at the Student Activities Office, 315 LaFortune, or at the LaFortune Information Desk. 
Apply now for a great opportunity and experience! 
her position." 
Blandford also feels the im­plicit support of the ad hoc committee will improve GLND/SMC's position in the res­olution of the report. The letter submitted to O'Hara cites spe­cific sections from the ad hoc report, which members of GLND/SMC feel are positive evaluations of the group."The ad hoc committee put forth an honest evaluation of what GLND/SMC is about. lt came from a source that is trusted by Patty O'Hara, and I feel it is an implicit document of support for GLND/SMC," Blandford stat­ed. "The question is whether the report is read with the spir­it in which it was written or if it will be read more narrowly. If it is taken seriously, it is an important document." 


Tuesday, March 19, 1996 The Observer • INTERNATIONAL NEWS page 7 
•TAIWAN 
Resolution in sight for Military conducts war games nuclear test ban treaty 

We didn't thinkwe could make it anyeasierto surfthe Net. 
Thday, more students are using Macintosh' 
computers to share ideas on the Internet 
than any other computer. No small wonder, 
either. Because with aMacintosh there are 
no complicated commands needed to get 
up and surfing on the Net. So in amatter 
of minutes you can be on-line accessing 
the exciting new universe of the Internet. 
(Not to mention prospective employers.) 
And right now, buying aMac· is as easy as 
using one. For alimited time, we're offer­
ing special campus savings on selected 
Macintosh computers and Apple· printers. 
So visit us today, and look into the power 
of Macintosh. The power to be your best: 

Butwe just did. 
For more infomJalion t'isil us 011/he lnlemel a/ bllp:llbedinfo.apple.com/ 


By JOE McDONALD 
Associated Press 
TAIPEI 

The 50 attackers came by sea in a driving rain, mounting an amphibious assault on a northern Taiwanese beach. With tanks, missiles and artillery, Taiwanese soldiers overpowered them. 
Aetually, both sides were from the Taiwanese army, and the show was staged for foreign reporters to prove that Taiwan would be ready for a Chinese invasion. As of Monday, there was no sign that invasion might eome. 
China was supposed to start a new round of war games Mon­day only 11 miles from outlying Taiwanese islands, part of a campaign of intimidation in ad­vanee of Saturday's presiden­tial elections. 
Taiwanese troops take defensive positions 

· · · · .. ... ..... ~ • Taiwanese 
Fuzhou1,... Matsu • East China Pingtan ':t~<lit:Chu Islets• Sea CHINA,. ~~ ) ·~ "• ;;/J· '{ ~'li ··o~ung,P~h~.~ f'~..· Taipei ( ii.• 'i•.' (~f!lese i· l 
Quemoy mJillil.'Y .<.:: ; • 
exerc1se i
1111 
areas }
Tf ;·TAIWAN c Philippine / r;ghu l Sea 
Kaohsiunq!' 
100 miles 
South China 
c:::s 
Sea 
100km 
AP/Castello, Tso 

Hundreds of islanders have fled, and a newspaper said troops have taken up defensive positions on the beach of one islet
B~t Taiwan's Defense Min­istry said Monday there was no sign of the new exercises, pos­
sibly because of the bad weath­er. 
Taiwan hasn't said it expects the war games to erupt into a Chinese invasion, and China hasn't said they will either. 
But in a show of resolve, offi­cials invited foreign reporters to watch as 50 soldiers defend­ed against a mock attack by 50 others playing Chinese attack­ers at Huko Army Base. 
The attackers made their way onto the beach and took up po­sition, but using missiles with­out warheads and live artillery aimed to miss, the troops play­ing Taiwanese soldiers wiped them out. 
"If provoked, we will safe­guard our nation," said Gen. Kao An-kuo. 
By ALEXANDER HIGGINS 
Associated Press 
GENEVA 

Negotiators could wrap up a global treaty to ban tests of nu­clear weapons in time for it to be signed this year, U.S. offi­cials said Monday. 
Although major differences still remain, the five countries that acknowledge having nu­clear weapons -Britain, France, China, Hussia and the United States -are approach­ing a common stand on how extensive to make the ban, said Secretary of State Warren Christopher. 
"Now, 35 years after Presi­dent Kennedy first endorsed a comprehensive test ban treaty, we stand on the threshold of being able to reach that impor­tant goal," Christopher said. 
He said he found a "serious­ness and determination" among key delegations to bring the negotiations in the 38­nation Conference on Dis­armament to a successful con­clusion. 
The test ban, coupled with the nuclear non-proliferation treaty, is vital to halting the spread of nuclear weapons, Christopher said. "This is a his­toric opportunity. It certainly must not be lost," he said. 
Christopher met with key del­egations separately and in groups, and said he saw mo­mentum for resolving the 1,200 points of contention in the draft treaty. 
Britain, France and the United States have said they want the accord to permit "zero yield," meaning a com­plete ban on any nuclear explo­sions. Yield is the measure­ment of the force of nuclear explosions. 
Hussia has balked at the term zero-yield, saying it is unsure what it means, but says it agrees with the goal of no ex­plosions. 
China alone is demanding permission for "peaceful nu­clear explosions," which could presumably be used for such massive projects as excavating a canal across a desert. 
But other delegations reject the idea because it is impossi­ble to distinguish peaceful explosions from military ones. 
A senior U.S. State Depart­ment official said the negotia­tors have been bridging differ­ences. 
Save big on a Mac: 

Notre Dame Computer Store Room 112 CCMB •631-7477 M-F9am-5pm 

offers sboun abm~ expire May 15, 1996. See your campus storefor de/ails about/he Apple Computer lixln. ©1996 Apple Computer, Inc. All riRhls resen•ed. Apple, the Apple logo, laserWriler, Macintosh, Performa, Pou~rBook, SlyleWriler and "Tbe pou~r lo be your best" are regi<lered lrrldemarks ofApple Compuwr, Inc. Mac and Pou~r Mac are lrlkkmarils ofApple Computer, Inc. All Macintosh computers are designed /o be ar:assible lo inditidua/s ttilh disability. 7b learn more (US. only), call 800-600-7808 or m 800-755-060/. 
-----~-­

--· ­
VIEWPOINT 
page 8 Tuesday, March 19, 1995 
THE OBSERVER 

NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1996-97 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Elizabeth Foran 
Managing Editors Patricia Carson Tom Roland 

News Editor ......................... Brad Prendergast Viewpoint Editor .................. Meaghan Smith Spans Editor .....................Timothy Sherman Accent Editor........................... Joey Crawford Saint Mary's Editor................. Caroline Blum Photo Editor .......................... Michael Ruma 
Busines~ Manager Man Casey 
Advenising Manager ............................ Ellen Ryan Ad Design Manager ............................... Jed Peters Production Manager ....................... Tara Grieshop Systems Manager ............................ Sean Gallavan Conrroller .......................................... Tyler Weber 

The Observer IS the mdependem newspaper publashed by the students of me Omversny of Norre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. lr does nor necessarily reflecr the policies of the adminisrra­lion of either insdrmion. The news is reponed as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned edi­torials represent the opinion of the majoriry of the Ediwr-in-Chiet: Managing Editor, News Ediwr, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commenraric:s, letters and Inside Columns presem the views of the aurhors, and nor necessarily those of The Observer. Viewpoim space i11 available ro all members of the Notre Dame/Saim Mary's com­
munity and ro all readers. The free cxpn:ssion of varying opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 

Editor-in-Chief 631-4542 Business Office 631-5313 Managing Editor/Viewpoint 631-4541 Advertising 631-6900/8840 Spons 631-4543 Systems/Marketing Dept. 631-8839 News/Photo 631-5323 Office Manager 631-7471 Accent/Saint Mary's 631-4540 Fax 631-6927 Day Editor/Producrion 631-5303 Viewpoint E-Mail Viewpoint.! @nd.edu Generallnformarion 631-7471 Ad E-Mail observer@darwin.cc.nd.edu 

• AND IN THIS CORNER 
Lawmakers must base abortion laws on scientific evidence 
Yes, yet another column devoted to the ever-raging abortion debate. I think it's just fabulous the way this place cele­brates Women's History Month. 
I'm pro-choice. Not to be shocking, but by now I think this shouldn't come as much of a surprise. 
Matthew Apple 

One thing I insist upon defining is the difference between "pro-choice" and "pro-abortion." I do not encourage women to have abortions; I support their right to choose to have one. Some exuberant pro-lifers like to rant about America's "abortion culture," as if everyone who calls herself pro-choice likes to butcher infants just to spite the word of God --or, in this case, the word 
of an elderly backwoods priest with an expensive hat. 
There is no such thing as an "abortion culture." Any woman who actually enjoys having an abortion ought to ha.ve her head examined. 
That out of the way, what I intend to do is explain why it is necessary that women have the right to choose abor­tion during the first trimester of preg­nancy, as granted under the terms of Roe vs. Wade. 
(Incidental aside: Roe vs. Wade allows individual states to determine the eligi­bility of women to have what are called "partial-birth abortions," which I find disgusting and abhorrent and which are most likely so expensive that only the 
here with the first three months, which is plenty of time for a woman to decide.} According to the Roman Catholic 
Church, the "purpose" of human sexual­ity is procreation. Hence, every time a married couple make love, they are expected to have a child. This is also why the Church condemns homosexual love --because it does not produce chil­dren and is therefore "unnatural." The Church therefore believes that the con­cept of love is merely a tool to propagate the species ad infinitum. To the Church's way of thinking, every single aspect of love is "life," starting from the "potential" of each individual sex cell to become a fetus. Thus, since every sperm cell is a potential child in the eyes of God, and since God wants every single sperm cell to become a god-fearing Christian, it is immoral to use contra­ception or to masturbate. 
(I wonder if I'm the first person to use the dirty "m" word in this newspaper. I wonder about the dirty "p" and "v" words.} 
But is that what "life" is? 
In the oft-cited Roe vs. Wade, the Justices state that the "viability" of a fetus --its ability to survive outside the womb --can only be determined by a practicing physician. In other words, sci­ence, not religion, determines the exis­tence of life. In the modern world, reli­gion has no place in the law books. A person cannot help being influenced somehow by a system of moral beliefs, but mystical values per se which cannot be proven through reason or empirical evidence have no place in ruling society, especially in an ethnically and religious­ly diverse society such as the United States. 
It may be that lawmakers devise laws which reflect certain religious values, but the laws ·will be of man's creation for the benefit of man, not the dogma of an elitist hierarchy passed down from "on high." Lawmakers have a duty to find a common ground for making just laws, and that common ground is sci­ence. 
Concerning the actual right to choose, the very word "choice" carries moral obligations. If one cannot choose one's actions, one cannot be held morally accountable for the results. Where there is no choice, the concepts of right and wrong have no meaning. If lawmakers deny choice and force women to be nothing but sexual receptacles, abortion will cease to be a moral issue. Where there is no choice, there is no responsi­bility. 
'In other words, science, not 
religion, determines the existence of life. In the mod­ern world, religion has no place in the law books.' 
Obviously, contraception and adoption are alternatives, and, obviously, absti­nence is the only one-hundred percent effective method of contraception. But women themselves must have the power to determine what happens to their bod­ies, and this goes for with whom they have relationships and whether or not they wish to keep their children. 
If I were to father a child, I would hope that my partner would ask my opinion, and I would hope that she would carry it to term, but ultimately it is the woman's choice. l cannot bear children. I will never endure morning sickness or kicks to the uteral wall or agonizing labor contractions or excruci­atingly painful birth surgery. Who am I to tell a woman what to do with her body? 
Matthew Apple is a creative graduate student at Notre Dame whose column appears every other week. Contact him at matthew. t. apple.] @nd. edu or http://www.nd.edu/-mapple. 

• 000NESBURY GARRY TRUDEAU 

• QuOTE Of THE DAY 
"your friend is the man who knows all about you, and still likes you." 
-Elbert Hubbard 


~----------------------------·--------------------------------------------~------~-----·----­

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. 
Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cems per character per day, including all spaces. 
Classifieds 

1) "La pula .. Ia pula.."  Ma, I'm still waiting for the corned  
NOTICES  REWARDING SUMMER JOB­Orlando, FL-residential camp serv­ PC SYSTEM FOR SALE Packard Bell 486 Desktop  2) "RED LIGHT!!" 3) "Hey, is that a poopPr scooper?"  Calif. actress-writer wife & photog­ beef.  Our fax must be busted.  
ing developmentally disabled hiring  Computer, Monitor, Printer, Internal  4) "Is this a gay bar?"  rapher husband wish to adopt new­ I, have you started working on the  
NAZZ 1996111  counselors 18+. Live and work on  Modem, and <ttl accesories.  5) "Hey .. I get it. The teams that  born. Will provide love, nurturing  masse yet. How 'bout darts.  
Battle of the Campus Bands  wooded, lakefront preserve. Salary  Windows 3.0 and many other pro­ are playing in the tournament  environ., educ., financial security.  
plus room, board & extras 6/9-8/17.  grams. Asking $795.00 -289-9508  are the ones that won on Thursday.  Hollywood Hills home has large  THE BEAUTY OF THE IGUANA  
Stamper Bob & the 4X4's -George  Call 407-889-8088 for application.  back yard and loving dog. Call  
and the Freeks -Reverend  6) "Can I get over?''  "I'd rather you  818/241-5535 collect. Legal &  I know Greg so well. I can tell by  
Funk-Los Catatonics-Sabor  WANTED: Good people to earn  didn't. . ."  ·  Confidential.  the sound of his voice that he's  
Latino -Cod in Salsa -Emily Lord ­ money by becoming reps for  Got Pac-Man Fever? Arcade size  7) "We're in a life and death situa­ really in love. Yes, he is. Yes he is.  
Hace Frio-Tacklebox -Tweak ­Luster -emily Thursday, March 21 8 pm @ Stepan EUROPE$229  EXCEL Telecommunications. Call 299-1999 evenings. FOR RENT I ....R_OO_M_S_F_O_R_RE_N_T_IN_P_R_IV-AT_E_.  Ms. Pac-Man game for sale. Perfect for any dorm or apartment. Call Greg at 277-9499. I PERSONAL  tion and you're making a joke?" 8) "Where are you going?" "WE DON'T KNOW!" 9) "Daaaante" 1 0) "I don't understand why you girls just didn't leave earlier .. • 11) "That's ok, you guys can just  Attention ooCtass of 1998 .. Help us be your voice ... Applications for the 1996-97 Junior Class Council are available for pick-up in the  Who's up for a wet t-shirt contest? What's that? You have to show more than a wet !-shirt? What a dis­grace! Moron. I know Greg so well, I can tell by  
Be a little flexible and save $$$  HOME.  - stay at PC's.."  Student Government Office  the sound of his voice that he's  
We'll help you beat the airline  VERY CLOSE TO NO.  FAX IT FAST!!!  12) Anytime you need me to show  (2nd floor LaFortune).  really in love. Yes, he is. Yes he is.  
prices.  IDEAL FOR SMC-ND EVENTS.  Sending & Receiving  you around your city, just give me a  
Destinations Worldwide  272-6194.  at  call.  Applications due: 3-20-96  Number 12, Number 12, Number 12  
AIRTICHtm 800-397-1098  THE COPY SHOP  13) Jeremiah.  
airtich@ netcom.com  BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY  LaFortune Student Center  14) Boom baby.  GRIFFIN • FREEDY  THE BEAUTY OF THE IGUANA  
219-291-7153  Our Fax# (219) 631-FAX1  14.5) So you just turned 21 last  NOLAN • STRONSKY  
FAX IT FAST!!!  month, huh? (Friday's waitress to  • The Voice of 98"  Dave, I'll talk to you in a few days,  
NATIONAL PARKS HIRING­ 5 bdrms, 2 full baths, alarm sys,  Peter)  okay?  
Positions are now available at  refrig, stove, partially furnished.  WHILE THE CAT IS AWAY,  15) Mom, there's a guy in the  THE CUBS WILL WIN IT ALL THIS  
National Parks, Forests & Wildlife  Heat incl. Completely remodeled.  THE MICE WILL PLAY... AND  basement. His name is Eric. He's  YEAR!!! RYNO IS BACK AND NO  She fell asleep, so I won't be able  
Preserves. Excellent benefits +  606 N. St. Peter.  PLAY..  from Cleveland, I think. Be real  MAN CAN STOP HIM.  to go to see the fight with you ...  
bonuses! Call: 1-206-971-3620  289-5999 or 255-9471  quiet because he's asleep.  plus. she's kind of sick ... you  
ext.N55846  Mark Kramer.  "Ziggy played for time, jiving us  16) Hey Shiela, this is Dot. Could  Your belts are great. But Mrs.  know how it is  
that we were voodoo  you please wait until we're done  Carson sure would love one.  LOSER!  
The Michiana Paintball Club now has an Indoor Paintballlield in  FOR SALE  The kids were just crass, he was the NAZZ  with breakfast to scoop after Sammy?  Maybe you should give them to her for thanks ..  Heybabywhushappenlesgroove  
South Bend -Free membership.  With the God givEln ass  17) He seems like a real nice kid,  
291-9462  1421 N. Oak Hill Dr., by owner,  He took it all too far but boy could  but what was all that business with  WANTED: 2 hot lift ops  Come and get your love, come and  
ILOST & FOUND I  immaculate, two full baths, garage, finished lower level, walk to NO, range, dishwasher, microwave,  he play guitar'' You too can be the NAZZ  the cloth belts? Beware of those Eastern seaboard kids. 18) I'm serious. They're called  Please contact 26#-9#1 # ex.# 69  get your love Ted is just plain dirty  
refrigerator, washer/dryer, garage  - or at least be at NAZZ  banana monkeys. My sister always  I think Old Navy sells them.  Next  
''LOsr·  door opener, $77,900,  8pm  March 21 -Stepan  washes her bananas first. My sister  time I'm there I'll pick some up for  You're all worthless and weak.  
·•  A forest green L.L.Bean wool coat at Bridget's on 3n. If found please  ph. 277-8898  always washes her bananas first. 19) Who is Ben Davis?  her.  God I love this job.  
call Colleen at 4-23571  83 New Yorker auto 110K miles  20) You better pool player than me  Aw-ite, I'll admit it. The Heels didn't  
runs well $900 Call  X18220  Tim Corbitt is a legend in Mexico.  (guy w/ pinky ring)  quite have it this year. They just  Me too.  And I still have a whole  
FOUND: calculator in the lockers in  They call him "EL PRESIOENTE"  needed more Dante's, that's all.  year ahead of me.  
NSH, most likely for ChemLab.  Call  93 Honda Accord LX 4Dr., only  Sophomore Service  But that's OK, Carolina is still the  
X2061 to identify.  17K miles, supper condition like  Week  premier program in college basket­ Kiwi- 
new. factory warranty, $13,700,  PEACE AND A UTILE BIT MORE  ···············  ball playing in college's basketball  You're the best.  
call 272-8696  TO THE WASHINGTON D.C. KIDS  TODAY:  most prestigious confer4ence.  I  -Dolphin  
LOST:  a silver pin with the  I CAN'T WAIT TO TALKIE TALKIE  1) Sign-up for the Blood  hate to say it but go GTech and  
enscribed word:  BELIEVE. This  JUDAY CREEK gem.  WITH YOU ALL SOON .... YOU  Drive in the both  Wake.  Do us proud.  Oh yeah,  Melanie, I miss you.  Melrose just  
piece of jewelery has much senti­ Well-maintained, 4-bedroom ranch  KNOW.  Dining Halls  UConn is close enough o  isn't the same without you!  
mental meaning.  Please call Kerry  with a 17 x 25 home office  AD HOC TO ALL THAT BLOCK  2) Dismas House  Beantown  Go Huskies.  
at 4-2493 if found.  Thanks.  & 3-car garage.  GRANT  Meet at library Circle  Finally, no more Star Wars quotes.  
WANTED  5 minutes to NO. REDUCED TO $149,500 Call Karen 272-3653.  STUFF _WHAT IS THAT ANY WAY??? YOURS IN COLEMAN<, LESLIE  at 5pm to see the "House." ...........*. *.  St. Anthony can try but he's not pro­ficient with clodhoppers.  I'm boycotting.  
WEDNESDAY:  Pastels, plaids, belts, bucks , green.  Zooropa is pretty cool but Zoo  
ATIENTION SOUTH QUAD  1) Blood Drive  You keep complaining. They keep  Crakers really rock. I love  
WOMEN: City News Service is now  Watertront Condos  Do you think Potter would really do  9am to4pm  coming. Traditional with a twist.  Toastettes too. They are neat.  
hiring newspaper carriers to deliver  1 Bedrooms from $52,000  that at Mardi Gras? I think not!  LaFortune Ballroom  
to dorms in your area. Work 1 hr  2 Bedrooms from $80,000  2) Oismas House  The tradition continues ...The  It's a beautiful thing! I should know.  
each morning, make $45 per week.  New Decor  Meet at Library Circle  Masters  
Should have a bike. Ex. possibility  EVERYTHING included  If I had a million dollars. what band  at 5pm to see the  Squantum is cool. At least I know  
for advancement.  Call Joe at 4­ Close to Notre Dame  would I bring to campus?  "House."  Yeah Bookstore.  my way around .. Just take a right at  
1680.  BEAUTIFUL!  Watch for more details coming  ···············  the gun.  And  I can explain the  
NORTH SHORE CLUB  soon.  Class Mass  Rocket, Sele, Suppan, Flash, and  name.  So there.  
ALASKA EMPLOYMENT-Students  232-2002  Brought to you by SUB.  Sophomore 4  Shaky Wakey.  MLB watch out.  
Needed! Fishing Industry. Earn up  Jefferson Elem.  Canseco.  Yard.  532.  How long 'til  I'm not going to Milford sober.  
to $3,000-$6,000+ per month.  Mo tops it? That's MVP Mo.  
Room and Board! Transportation!  Mac Powerbook Duo 230 w/dock,  Talky, Talky!  NEEDED: A Saint Mary's Day  Nor !CPA  
Male or Female. No experience  230 MG HD, 8 RAM, 14in. color  Editor.  164. Or was it 166. I don't recall.  
necessary. Call (206)971-3510  monitor, Multimedia kit, ext. soft­ QUOTES TO REMEMBER  Contact Caroline at 284-4349 or  was buzzed. And guess what?  There is no budget I tell ya.  
extA55844  ware incl. $2200, call 234-2766  FROM INDIANAPOLIS:  631-4540.  Sports still prevailed.  It's all a scam.  

Tuesday, March 19, 1996 The Observer· SPORTS page II 
Irish 
continued from page I6 
madtl numerous outstanding eatehes and turned several double plays." 
But what pleased Mainieri most of all was the turnaround in the pitching starr. Irish pitehers eompiled a :3.72 EHA over the break, lowering their tnarn EHA from b39 to 5.17. 
"The biggest thing that hap­pened to us over the last seven games was the solidification or our pitching staff," said Mainieri. "If we ean eontinue to get this typ11 of pitching per­rormanees on a consistent ba­sis, we'll be tough to beat." 
Here's a rundown on the seven games the Irish played over thn break: 
lllfi'IUIII Of HOI II lUll I 

URBAN 
INSTITUTE 
Mli!HlMMift 
INVITES YOU TO AnEHO 
1995-96 PAUL M. AND BARBARA HENKELS VISITING SCHOLARS SERIES 
COllEGE OF ARTS AND LETTERS 
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 
SEPARATE AND STILL UNEQUAL 
Notre Dame 12, Lewis-Clark State 6 
The Irish began their seven­game road swing with a big win over Lnwis-Clark State, the top ranked team in the NAJA. The offense was keyed by first base­man George Restovieh, who went 3-4 with a homerun and five HBI, and center fielder Scott Sollmann, who went 3-4 with four n•ns and four stolen bases. On the mound, the Irish got a huge boost from freshman Alex Shilliday, who put in a spnetacular 5 1/3 innings of relief work, allowing just one hit while striking out eight to earn his first college win. 
Notre Dame 8, Long Beach State 4 
The Irish stopped #20 Long Beach State behind a perfect 
TLJt-:SDAY, MARC1119, 19% 
DOUGLAS MASSEY 
UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA 
"AMERICA'S HOUSING APARTHEID: PAST, PRESENT, AND FUTURE" 
4:15P.M. ROOM 124 CENTER FOR SOCIAL CONCERNS 
Douglas Massey is the Dorothy Swaine Thomas Professor of Sociology at the University of Pennsylvania. He is the author or co-author of six books, including American Apartheid: Segregation and the Making of the Underclass (1993), and more than seventy articles and book chapters on segregation, demography, urban sociology, migration, and social research. Former Director of the Center on Latin American Studies and the Population Research Center at the University of Chicago, he received the Ph.D. in Sociology from Princeton University. 
For mc:xa ~nlormalton The Henkels Vl!iltmg plaaM contact Scholars Senes IS a Mican-AmerH:an Dr. AoMuld a. Sm~th, Jr Progrtm of the College Stud.es Program. Dept or OJ. Oavtd L Hay, ol Arb and letters, ol SOCIOlogy, Center 
The lkban Institute, and 1s made possible for Social Concems, 
UnN of Notre 0&1"1l8, by • genefous eodow­and Urban Institute lor Tel (2Hil) 831-8798 meol proVKted by Paul Convnt.my and or G31-1~015 M & Batbat• Henkels Edocabonal lmllal!ves 


Upcoming Series Speakers: 
Thurs., March 28, Dianne Pinderhughes, Rm. 124 CSC Tues., April9, Norman Francisi, Rm. 124 CSC 
Women's Resource Center 
presents 

1996 Film Festival 
Tuesday, March 19: Go Irish Thursday, March 21: Clueless Friday, March 22: Some Like It Hot! 
AI/ showings are in Montgomery Theatre at 7:00PM 
All Films Are Free! 
performance at the plate from catcher Bob Lisanti. Lisanti was 4-4 from the plate with two doubles and three RBI. 
Second baseman Handall Brooks, who batted a blistering .450 over spring break, went 2­3 with two HBI and two stolnn bases, and his two-run single in Notre Dame's four-run fifth inning put the Irish ahead for good. ' 
Left fielder Mike Amrhein was a perfect 3-3 with a home­run and two RBI. Wally Widelski, Dan Stavisky, and Rich Sauget eombined to pitch 4 1/3 innings of three-hit, one­run ball in relief of starter Gregg Henebry. 
Washington 2, Notre Dame 1 

The only loss over spring break for the Irish came in a game which was called after only 5 1/2 innings due to sehcd­uling conflicts in the Kingdome. Washington's Aaron Myette held the Irish to just one run on four hits in six innings of work, outdueling Notre Dame's Darin Schmalz, who surrendered two runs on six hits in four innings on the mound. Left fielder Allen Greene was 1-2 with the Irish's only HBI. 
Notre Dame 6, Oral lloberts 2 

Alex Shilliday won his second game in five days, going seven innings while allowing just one run on three hits. Rowan Hichards, who was named MVP of the Irish Spring Classic, went 2-4 with two doubles and four RBI. Richards' two-run double in the fourth inning put the Irish up 3-1, and his RBI double 
1996 Spring Roadtrip 

Notre Dame's 6-1 performance over spring break was a turning point in the team's season, and included several stellar individual performances both at the plate and on the mound. Some of these top performers included: 
At the Plate~~,.~&·~* 

George Restovich (1 B) Mike Amrhein (LF) Randall Brooks (2B) Rowan Richards (RF) Bob Lisanti (C) Scott Sollman (CF) 
On the Mound 

Alex Shilliday Dan Stavisky Wally Widelski Darin Schmalz Christian Parker (.375 BA (9-24), 42B, 10 RBI) (.417 BA (1 0-24), 32B, 2HR, 5RBI) (.450 BA (9-20), 5RBI, 3SB) (.323 BA (1 0-31 ), 5HR, 7RBI) (.412 BA (7-17), 22B, 3RBI) (.310 BA (9-29), 8SB) 

(2-0, 0.73 ERA, 121/31P, 4H, 12 SO) (1-0, 2.00 ERA, 91P, 7SO) (1-0, 0.00 ERA, 31/31P, 2H, 2SO) (1-1, 3.38 ERA, 10 2/31P, 6SO) (2-0, 6.52 ERA, 92/3 IP, 7SO) 
in the eighth helped seal the win, whieh was the third in four games for the Irish. 
Notre Dame 6, Southern Illinois 2 

The Irish shelled higly-touted Saluki pitcher Brad Blumenstoek, and Christian Parker pitched a six-inning, two-run game to improve his record to 3-0 on the season. George Restovich came up big again, driving in three runs on two doubles, and Howan Bichards went 2-5 with three runs and a game-opening homerun. The improving Irish pitching staff surrendered just two runs on nine hits. 
Notre Dame 10, Indiana 4 

The Irish used a live-run sec­ond inning to cruise to victory over intrastate rival Indiana, and played an nrrorless game in the field. Howan lUchards went 2-5 with two BBI, and Handall Brooks went 2-4 with three RBI. 
Dan Stavisky earned his first win of the season, going seven innings, striking out seven while surrendering only one run on four hits. DH Justin Scholl hit his first homerun of the season in Notre Dame's big second inning. 
Notre Dame 10, Oral Hoberts 6 

The Irish used a three-run homerun from Mike Amrhein and a two-run shot by catcher Jeff Wagner to compile a six­run fifth inning which was in­strumental in the Irish's victory in the championship game of the tournament. 
Darin Schmalz earned the victory on the mound, and relievers Mike Balicki, Pat Davis, and Hich Sauget helped preserve the Irish vietory after Gregg llenebry struggled in the eighth inning. The win was the fourth straight for the surging Irish. 
------~---------------.-----,--­
page 12 The Observer· SPORTS Tuesday, March 19, 1996 
History 


continued from page 16 
Thorn: 'Physical 
score close throughout much of the first half. Notre Dame's lead remained in single digits 
assaults on referees 
until Gaither nailed a jumper with less than four minutes rem...ining. The double digit 
will not be tolerated'
margin, however, was only temporary. At halftime, the Irish led 33-26. team to win 70 games. In the second half, Purdue 
NBA answers The Bulls, who struggled to clawed its way back to trail by beat Philadelphia 98-94 two points on several occa­Rodman~ Monday night, already are 
sions. The Irish held onto their missing All-Star Scottie Pippen, lead partly because of clutch challenge with 
who is sidelined with an assort­play from reserve Rosanne ment of ailments. Rodman 
Bohman. She came off the averageg 15.1 rebounds per
suspension, fine
bench to score 16 points. game. Notre Dame finally pulled away Associated Press• Rodman, who contends the from the Boilermakers because referees around the league 
of successful free throw shoot­NEW YORK treat him unfairly, has behaved ing in the final minute. Chicago's Dennis Rodman, better this season than in years "We executed well on our the NBA's leading rebounder, past. But he lost his cool 
end. Purdue didn't shoot the was suspended for six games against the Nets. ball well. They put better and fined $20,000 by the After picking up a technical defense on Katryna and left league today for head-butting a 5:44 into the game for pound­Rosanne open," said McGraw. referee after being ejected from ing the ball on the court, The Observer/Mike Ruma 
In Sunday's game, Texas a game. Rodman was ejected with 1:31 Dennis Rodman was slapped with a six-game suspension and a Tech had the advantage of "Physical assaults on referees left in the first period after $20,000 fine for head-butting a referee in a game Saturday night. playing in its home state. They cannot and will not be tolerated being called for a personal foul. 
took advantage to land an 82-under any circumstances," said As Rodman argued the call 67 victory. Rod Thorn, the NBA's senior with Paul Mihalak, he put his r-----KRii's---,
Gaither contributed another vice president of basketball op­hands inside his shorts. Referee great effort by scoring 21 erations. T~d Bernhardt noticed the ges­1 points and collecting 8 re­Rodman also knocked over a ture and called Rodman for his bounds. water cooler, stripped off his second technical. I KOUNTRY: 
The Red Raiders had too jersey and shouted obscenities Rodman went after Bernhardt many weapons for the Irish to after he was ejected during the and lightly head-butted him I contain. Four players finished first quarter of Chicago's victo­above the left eye. Rodman KITCHEN I with more than 16 points, in­ry over New Jersey on then flung his shirt off, stormed cluding a game-high 2~ from Saturday. around the court and knocked I I Alicia Thompson. "The suspension and fine over a water bucket when he fi­
Notre Dame fought to keep reflect not only the head­nally left. I •Cinnamon Rolls•Cookies•Breads• I 
the score close in the first half butting, but the totality of his "They can suspend me and •Party Tray•Special Orders• despite Texas Tech's high-pow­actions on the court," Thorn make an example out of Dennis I All Products are made with Fresh Ingredients I 
ered offense. As the game pro­said. Rodman, I don't care," Rodman gressed, however, the Red Rodman won't be eligible to said after the game. Raiders pulled away from the play again until April 2, when "If I butted him, I butted him. 
Irish. By end of the second the Bulls play at Miami. His So suspend me, David Stern. half, Tech had built an insur­absence could hurt Chicago's Suspend me, Rod Thorn. You mountable double digit lead. bid to become the first NBA guys are so big, suspend me." North Village Mall• {219) 271 7888 .J 


Dine-In/Carryout Dine-ln/Carryou t Delivery/Carryout 52850 U.S. 31 Business 1815'Z State Rd. 23 6305 University Commons 
277-2121 273-1202 271-1166 
lHUT RP100052

r: -------..----------------------:-,
SUPER VALUE! BIG VALUE! GREAT VALUE! TRIPLEDECKER!
: $999 : $1299 -~-: $899 :TripleDe~rP~ :
I I 1 1 or Stuffed Crust Pizza I 11 
1 $999
One Medium I One Medium 1-Topping Pizza I One Medium I I Specialty Pizza & One Medium Specialty 1 2-Topping Pizza I I
First Topping 

Pl'zza $5 FREE
I $5 I Any 2nd Medium 1 $1299 1
4

I~ ....,:~~:::,:~. """!!!!!!Ill~~...._ I ~ ·~ •m~ A~::~::,:~ :~.,_,~~~~~~==~$....~~1mt-...._1 NO COUPON REQ:~:;ialty I 
I 
Special~ pizzas may vary. One coupon per party per visit. n ''7.A I Speoalty piZZas may vary One coupon per party per VISit nl..~ O~e coupon per party per visit. Not valid with I Offer expires 4/?JJ/96. Valid only at participating units n•~ I Not vahd with TripleDecker pizza or any other offer. ~u ,.,., Not vahd With TnpleDecker piZZa or any other offer Dehvery 1':.~~....,.. I TnpleDecker piZZa or any other offer. Delivery charges ~ uut owned by subsidiaires of Pizza Hul®,lnc. Specialty piz-1':.~~ Delivery charges may apply. 1/20 cent cash redemption -.-.ut charges may apply 1/'l!Jcentcash redemption value ut may apply.l/20centcash redemption value. -.-. zas may vary. Not valid w1th any other offer. Delivery utI \'alue. t1996 Pizza Hut, Inc. ® I ©1996 P!lLl Hut, Inc ® ©1996 Pizza Hul, Inc. ® 1 charges may apply. Patent pending. ~1996 Pizza Hul, Inc. ® .. 
~-------~-----------------~------­
-

'li.Jesday, March 19, 1996 The Observer· SPORTS page 13 
• MEN'S TENNIS 
Irish knock off Sun Devils, fall to Horned Frogs, Tarheels 
ByJOE CAVA TO Sports Writrr 
After being shut out in the National Team Indoors three weeks earlier the Notre Dame men's tennis team hoped to fair lwller at the Blue-Gray National Classic in Montgomery, Alabama. 
The Irish got ofT on thn right foot as they convincingly dll­featml the No. 33 ranknd team in the nation, Arizona State. Unfortunately that was the !wight of their weekend as they dropped eonsecutive matches to No. 5 Texas Christian and No. IS North Carolina pushing th1~ir meord to 11-6 on the year. 
In their victory over the Sun Devils the Irish got help from their doubles play and the bot­tom of thnir lineup as they won by a score of 5-l . 
Thn llorned Frogs of TCU dominated the Irish, sweeping the singles action and winning two out of three doubles match­es. 
Senior captain Mike Sprouse, who has lead the way all season long with a record of 10-5, was defeated in straight sets by Arizona State's top player, Oscar Bustos 6-4,6-3. As it turned out, Sprouse was shut out at the Classic as his match against TCU was suspended at a set a piece. David Calowell of 



Lenten Retreat 
HSpiritual Living in a Secular World" Saturday, March 23 @ 5:30PM 
through 

Sunday, March 24 @ 3:00PM 
All Welco111et 
Just fill out an application form from the Library Campus Ministry Office by: Friday, March 22, at 4:00PM. Cost: $1 5 Place : Parish Center 
0MPUS 
MINISTRY 
North Carolina overcame Sprouse in a hard fought three set match, 3-6, 6-2,6-1. 
Without the No. 1 singles point the Irish were lead to vic­tory by their No. 3, 4, 5, and 6 singles slots against the Sun Devils, who gave top ranked UCLA their toughest match of the season the day before. 
"We got great efforts out of Ryan Simme, Brian Patterson, and John J. O'Brien," head coach Bobby Bayliss raved. "I think it was probably our best match of the year." 
Simme, whose record now stands at 6-8, looked more like the Ryan Simme before surgp,ry as he defeated Tsolar Gevorkian 6-2, 6-4 at the No. 3 singles. However, in his other decision of the weekend Texas Christian's Talito Cavrales beat Simme in straight sets 6-1, 6-0. 
Patterson's record was pushed to 7-9 as he needed a tie breaker in the first set be­fore he clinched the point against ASU with a 6-3 score in the second stanza. The Tar Heels got the best of the Irish again as Paul Harsanyi domi­nated Patterson in the first 6-0 and struggled to overcome thll freshman in the second, 7-6. 
O'Brien went undefeated in Montgomery as he pickfld up wins against the Sun Devils and the Tar Heels. lie won a key match in the win over ASU as he came back to defeat Dave Critchley, 3-6, 6-2, 6-3. O'Brien earned the lone point against Carolina dominating Tony Thomas 6-0, 6-0. O'Brien's sin­gles record now stands at a very impressive and team best 10-3. 
In the No. 6 singles slot .Jason Pun went 1-2 in the Blue-Gray Classic and his dual match record was pushed to 10-7. Pun contributed to the win over ASU with a well fought victory 6-3, 7-5. Pun dropped his matches against Texas 
Participants meet at the Badin Campus Ministry Office at 5:30PM on Saturday, March 23. 
Questions? Call Fr. Bob Dowd, C.S.C. (1-7800, or 1-5056), Bridget Barry (4-4959), or Amy Schull(4-4941) 
Christian and North Carolina, 6-1, 6-1 and 6-0, 6-4, respec­tively. 
.Jakup Pietrowski only had one match in the no. 2 singles slot as two of his matches were suspended. The sophomore was beaten by TCU's David Raditi 6-4, 6-3. His season record stands at 8-6 after the loss. 
The doubles play paralleled the resu.Jts as they picked up the point in the win and lost the point in the two losses. The No. 1 tandem of Sprouse and Pun went 1-2 on the weekend pick­ing up a win against the Sun Devils and their record fell to the .500 mark at 8-8. 
The young duo of Pietrowski and Patterson again proved that they will be a force in dou­bles action, as they won two out of three matches and their only loss came by a tie breaker against the highly ranked horned frogs. 
After forming the No. 2 dou­bles team after six dual match­es this combination has gone a team best 9-3. 
The veteran team of O'Brien and Simme went 1 up and 2 down as their record falls to 8­6 on the season. 
Texas Christian's doubles teams presented as tall a task as one can imagine with their Nos. 1 and 2 doubles teams be­ing the two top ranked doubles teams in the nation. 
The Irish were ranked fif­teenth going into the Blue-Gray Classic and have an overall record of 11-6 and still a per­fect 6-0 record in mid-west re­gional aetion. 
This upcoming weekend the Irish will try to get lmek on the winning traek as they travel to North Carolina to take on two ACC opponents. They will re­match the Tar Ileels on Friday and then travel to Duke on Sunday. 
"We're anxious to get down to Tobacco Hoad and redeem our­selves", Bayliss commented. "We did not get what we want­ed out of the Blue-Gray, but this gives us another chance as Duke is ranked around ten and Carolina is in the top twenty." 
Now the Irish have some pressure on them as they only have eight dual matches left in the regular season and want to head into post season action on a roll. 
.... 

~-------------------------------------------------------------------­page 14 The Observer • SPORTS Tuesday, March 19, 1996 
• WOMEN'S TENNiS 
Irish overcome injuries to go 3-0 over break, capture No. 8 ranking 

r------~---~~~~--------,
I 

I 
: Unlimitecl Tanning : I 

I 
: 'Till Grq.dua.tion : 


I I ~ I I I 
! $65 ! 
L--------..;.:..;.;.;.;:;;,;.: __________.J
IL----­

] Voted: 1:! AREA's BEST 
~ 
c::s

:s TANNING CENTER \J 
(orne see the Chicago musical now on tour! 
The Kiltorton Rood Ensemble • presents 1J} "-Ll) e--~ 
d e 0 p"A rapturous weoveofirresistable 
sounds of Irish music ... conjuring a
J 
spirff oflreland." .cmmgo 1,,.Tim• 

7 e~~~::~BP.M. 
C<DRe --· 
O'Loughlin Auditorium 

Tickets: $7 {Students), $14 {Adults) on sole otthe Soint Mary's College box office, O'Loughlin Auditorium, 9-5, Mon.· Fri. Viso, Discover, MosterCord: 219/284-4626 
By KATHLEEN LOPEZ Sports Writer 
The women's tennis team made history last week. The Irish attained their highest rankings ever; they found themselves up eight spots in the Intercollegiate Tennis Association Poll, to the number eight spot. 
While the rest of the campus was heading home for the break, the team was focusing on there three forthcoming matches against tough opponents. The Irish played two home matches on Saturday against Kansas State and Drake. They were victorious in both, defeating the Wildcats, 5-2, and trouncing Drake,7-0. 
Then after their victories the team headed south to Florida State. The Irish won their first outdoor match against the Seminoles on Friday, 
6-1. 
The team had to overcome a lot of misfortune over break. The Irish were struck with some injuries and illness. Senior Wendy Crabtree has been battling an ankle injury and was forced to sit out her singles match against Drake. Senior Sherri Vitale has been trying to recover from a wrist injury which she suffered early in the sea­son. Vitale's status is still unknown. She has im­proved, but is not expected back anytime soon. Also this past week, junior Erin Gowen was bat­tling illness during her Florida State match. 
Doubles was the strength for the team. The Irish did not lose any doubles matches over the whole break, and found that this was the key to their victories. By winning the doubles points early, it gave the team momentum going into their singles matches. 
The Irish had spectacular performances from numerous players, which lifted them to victory in all three of their matches. Senior Holy Lord stat­ed that the first two matches were extremely tough for the team because they were back to back. 
"Overall, we had a good week. The double header was a long hard day. We pulled out some close ones to secure the victories." 
Freshman Jennifer Hall showed her strength at the No. 1 singles spot. She suffered a loss on the first .day to KState's Yana Dorodnova. Then she quickly bounced back to win her second match against Drake, in a tight three set match. 
Senior Holyn Lord also showed her talent, as she won all three of her singles matches over break. She rotated spots playing No. 2 and No. 3 singles. Lord dismissed both her KState and Drake opponents, in straight sets. 
Freshmen Marisa Velasco also had a spectacu­lar week, as she too was victorious in her match­es. She was solid at the No. 4 spot, but this freshman was not thoroughly satisfied with her performance. 
"I have not been playing as well as I had been," stated Velasco, "I was just trying to pull out vic­tories. I have been working hard on improving, but my groundstrokes are not the best that they have been. I think that I am just going through some ups and downs." 
The team did have to dig deep for its victories stated head coach Jay Louderback. "We had a tough week. There were injuries to deal with. Also we had a double header match. Then we had to play our first outdoor match. In the end, we played really well. Some big plays came from different players." 
The Irish are focusing on a tough match this week against the Purdue Boilermakers. They play on Wednesday at 3:30pm at Eck. 
Different members of the and Cade displayed the abilities squad stepped up and produced that has Coach Corrigan
Rebound 
big-time when they were called expecting big things from them, continued from page 16 upon. and from the team as a whole. Players like Keenan, DeRiso, Freshman Chris Dusseau paced Notre Dame with four goals, two in the decisive fourth ---------------------------, 
period. The last leg of the trip was at Villanova. 
This game quickly became a 1-1 tie. This did not last long, though, as the Irish continuous­ly built the lead throughout the remainder of the match. 
Behind two goals and three assists from DeRiso, Notre Dame won 8-2. 
Despite clutch performances

by Keenan, DeRiso, and Dusseau, the big story of the trip was sophomore goalie Alex 
Cade. 
lie showed off his All-

American skills with 28 saves .,. over the three game span. This performance came on the heels of a. disappointing L0 Y01
oMp e nle r d a gams t a· ary an · 
"Alex is never going to have a game like Loyola again," said 
K~.e~an. 
but we have all the fa1th m the world in Alex. 
He kept us in every game this weekend, especially Air Force. We wouldn't have won without him, no question." 
All in all, the Irish made the plays this time around to get
the wins. 
START YOUR FIRST DAY WITH YEARS OF EXPERIENCE BEHIND YOU. 
Bring your BSN to the Army 
and we'll assign a preceptor to 
help put you at ease. 
Your preceptor will be an experienced Army Nurse who will smooth your transition from 
school to practice. With advice, counsel on_Army nu~sing p~o­cedure, or JUSt by bemg a friend. With your preceptor's help, 
you'll meet your new challenges and rapidly move into a 
1 d h" 1 f

ea ers 1p ro e o your own. Ifyou're a BSN candidate ...or you are an RN with a BSN...you'll find the rewards and responsibility you're looking 
Everybody has an ?ff ?arne, for in Army Nursing. Contact your local Army Nurse Corps 
R  .  
ecrmter.  
ARMY NURSE CORPS.  
BE ALL YOU CAM BE.  

---------------------------' 
Spring into Spring Sale 
#8 Notre Dame vs. Purdue 
4:00 p.m.
"Specializing in Authen 

Eck Tennis Pavilion • Admission: FREE! 





Register in Advance at RecSports -$8.00 fee for Class 
Tuesday, March 19, 1996 
FOUR FOOD GROUPS OF THE APOCALYPSE 
~ou Wo'-\<.£D f\~~ \tJEE.Io'. ~ou LA•D Ou.,-A.t-L WEE!' Q,... \T,I'.),bN~ ~ou? \,.1\>.e. ~v,...,D,D,...·T '-jou? 
MISTER BOFFO 
DILBERT 
SEND THIS C>Y 
E-MAIL. 

The Observer • TODAY 
page IS 

DAVE KELLETT 
YOUR HOROSCOPE 
JEANE DIXON 

-IR'1'""-'To Ge.T THI'<T DEEP 
1>AR\<.Tt>-oP•CANI\ TI\N ... 


:1
.. "' 
,_..0 
,_ 
0 
() 
"' 

CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 33 Gunslinger's 66 Car security forte device
1 Mule's father 
37 Cloy 67 Toward shelter, 

4 Comic Carvey to a sailor 
38From--Z

B"Beatit!" 
&SWilling39 Shopping bags 13 Actress Turner 69 Rapture 41 Prefix with gram 15 Actor Jannings 

or meter 10 Miss Durbeyfield 16 Mild cigar 
71 Amount after 11 ---the Red expenses 42 TV knob 
44 Basketball 

18 Pro--(like strategy some legal 47 Green-card 
DOWN holderswork) 

19 Bronco-busting 1 Argus-eyed 50 Rubberneckaffair 2 Opera's 51 Parish heads 20 Subway system Caldwell53 Maxim23 Bara of the 3 Criticize snidely, silents 57 Harvard's -­with "at" Club24 Prairie diggers 
4 Liability 2BAII thumbs 
61 Feed a fete 5 Love, to Livy
64 Willa Cather's "One of--6 Ship of 1492 32 Apple 

co-founder --­Jobs 65 Skunk's defense 1 Dylan's "All­the Watchtower" a Teleplay ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 9 Threads --..,......,...,....,.,___, 1 o "Cool!" 
11 Exist 31 Soho so longs
12 Roundup~f.!:.lf.!:.l~.::!4~~-=-+~ remark 
33 Land near Bahrain
14 Tart 34 Applicable
21 Cool and damp 22 Brillo rival 
35 Like some Greek columns
25 Dodge 36 Sunset direction 
26 Nerve networks 40 Amtrak stop: 
27 Kind of preview Abbr. 
or thief 43 Restraining 
ropes
setting in N.Y.C. 45Wire nail 
~-=4-~=-+:--1 30 Head of the class 46 Blitz, in football 
FAX IT,TOO, IN CASE. HE.. DOE.5N'T CHECI<. HIS E-t-\All. AND t-\AIL THE. ORlGI.NAL 50 HE. HAS A CLE.AN COPY. 
Hllil......l'£.,~~ I 

HAPPY BIRTHOAY! IN THE NEXT YEAR OF YOUR LIFE: Meet work deadline, on time -or even earlier. A business boom is possible in early summer. Investi­gate a real estate deal very carefully before investing any money. A thor­ough approach can pay big divi­dends! Travel and new friends are on the agenda next fall. Flexibility helps you score important points with prominent people. See family members as they are, not as .you would like them to be. Career progress is assured so long as you 
avoid time-wasting digressions. 
CELEIIRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: actor Bruce Willis, actress Ursula Andress, saxophonist Ornette Coleman, frontier marshall Wyatt Earp. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Be helpful, not judgmental, if a loved one fails 10 live up to your expecta­tions. Worry can be a threat to your health. Accept those things you can­not change. 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Continue to exercise restraint on the social scene. Widening your circle of acquaintances will be good for your career. Do not jump to conclu­sions where a new relation!lhip is concerned. 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Fireworks could explode at work or home. Hidden resentments are brought QUI into the open. Refuse to be intimidated by someone who likes to issue ultimatums. 

SCOTT ADAMS 
CANCER (June 21-July 22):

u 
Pull the right strings and people

.. 
behind the scenes will help you.

!. 
GOOD~'t'E

u 
Professional or official activities are

.!:• 
''PAPERLESS," 
your most reliable source of income. Take a prominent role in family dis­
HELLO

~ 
cussions.

;; 
''CLUE.LE..~S.'' 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Keep

"' ~ 
. ~ 

.. 
.., 
! 
• OF INTEREST 

c 
.." 
: 
• Douglass Massey, of the University of Pennsylvania, will be giving a lecture titled America's 
Housing Apartheid: Past, Present, and Future today at 4:15 in Room 124 of the Center for Social Concerns. 
• Dick Huether will be on campus tonight to talk about the "Benefits of An Arts & Letters Degree to·stu­
dents Entering the Business World'. lie is an author, lecturer, consultant, and former general Electric Corporate Marketing Executive. The presentation is 
scheduled to take place from 6:30-7:30p.m. in the Sorin Room of LaFortune. 
• The Lithuanian Club will be presenting a video on the history and culture of Lithuania to celebrate the sixth anniversary of the re-establishment of Lithuanian independenee in 1990. lt will be held 
tonight from 7-8 p.m. in the Dooley Room of LaFortune. 
• The Chinese Threat: An Imminent Danger or Mere Intimidation'! A panel discussion on the Chinese-Taiwanese relationship in light of the upcom­ing Taiwanese elections and the recent Chinese mili­
tary movements will be held tonight at 7:30p.m. in the Hesburgh Library Auditorium. 
• The Memorial Explorers will be sponsoring a
46 Feature of the 58 Christmas Venus de Milo 
lecture tonight entitled "Balancing Cost and Quality of
59 Clinton, e.g.: 

Medical Care on an Individual Basis." It will be given years later 60 Employs 
49 Sophs. two Abbr. 
by Dr. Gary Fromm from Memorial Hospital and will 52 Summer ermine 
61 Taxi 

be held today at 7:30p.m. at the C.S.C. Coffee House. 62 Pledge of
54 Actor Quinn 
Allegiance55 Troll 
• A lecture on ''Fasting," by Father 56 Everglades bird 63Mai-­ending 
O'Connor, C.S.C., originally scheduled for 7:30p.m. tonight, has been rescheduled for 7:30 p.m. Friday evening.
Get answers to any three clues by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420­5656 (75¢ each minute). 
your feet planted firmly on the 
ground if approached hy someone 
with an unrealistic plan. Invite a 
friend to lunch at <1 favoruc restau­
rant, then visit an art gallery or 
museum together. 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Scpt. 22): 

Rocking the boat could capsi7.c a 
useful arrangement. Bide your time. 
You will eventually he able to have 
things just the way you wan! them. 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): To 

maintain your position, stay a step 
ahead of competitors. Business asso­
ciates may join you for a sociable 
lunch or dinner. Be more discreet 
about an office romance; others arc 
more observant than you think! 
SCORI'IO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21 ): 

Reduce sums alloued for social and 
business entertaining if running 
short on funds. Lend or borrow pru­
dently. An emerging trend gives you 
new hope for a business enterprise. 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 

2 I): Avoid acting either overconfi­
dent or nervous. Heart-to-heart talks 
with an ally or professional advisor 
helps you reach an overdue decision. 
Show your compassionate side. 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 

19): Friendly relations with your co­
workers is a vital part of your joh 
perfonnance. At times. your anitudc 
puzzles others. You may he dream­
ing of the ideal job situation. 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. I8): Heed the words and writings of oth· ers. They could hold the solution to a recurring problem. Catch up on your leuer-writing if you get the chance. 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): A friend or relative is outspoken but truthful. Sec the justice in this per­son's remarks instead of resenting them. Dine with a special compan­ion tonight, then do a few domestic chores before turning in . 
.. 
• 
' 

.-SPORTS 
16 


Bouncing Back 
County, Air Force, and Villanova. Irish recover from The first quarter of the UMBC game, a 14-4 Irish victory, set the tone for the
opening loss with 

rest of the trip. Midfielcier Jimmy Keenan scored on an unassisted goal 
1:13 into the game, and the Irish scored
three straight wins 

three more times in the quarter, which By TIM MCCONN ended with a 4-1 Notre Dame lead. Staff Writer Keenan went on to pour in four more 
goals (five total), and also contributed Coming off a disheartening, season­one assist. Junior attackman Will 
opening loss to highly-touted Loyola of DeRiso lit up the scorebo&rd with four Maryland, the Notre Dame Lacrosse goals of his own, all coming in the fourth team felt the need to redeem them­period~ 
selves. Although they played well in that 'The team helped create the opportu­contest, Coach Kevin Corrigan realized nities, and I just took advantage of that his Irish squad just did not come up them," explained Keenan of his five-goal with the big plays to win. As a result, explosion. "Everybody was really play­they wanted to show that they could live ing well." up to the high expectations they have They continued their winning waysplaced on themselves. against Air Force, winning 13-8. After 
The loss only added to their determi­falling behind 3-1 in the first period, the 
nation, and it showed in their three Irish fought back. They eventually took game stretch over the Spring Break holi­a 8-7 lead, and then blew it wide openday. In resounding fashion, the Irish with five goals in the final period. posted a 3-0 record last week with wins over tJniversity of Maryland at Baltimore 
see REBOUNO I page 14 

Will DeRiso scored four goals in Notre Dame's 14-4 win over Maryland-Baltimore County. 
• 
By DYLAN BARMMER Sports Writer 
Mission accomplished. 

,. The Notre Dame baseball team took a huge step forward in their young season, going a combined 6-1 in seven games over spring break to help move their record to 10-6 on the year. The Irish won two of three games at the Husky Classic in Seattle's Kingdome, and closed out the break with a perfect 4-0 performance in the Irish Spring Classic in San Antonio, Texas. "I really felt our team im­proved tremendously and came together over this spring 


History 01ade before Irish fall to Red Raiders in tourna01ent 
By TODD FITZPATRICK Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame women's basketball team made history this weekend by winning its first ever NCAA tournament game. But the luck of the Irish was not enough, even on Saint Patrick's Day, to earn a second round victory on Sunday. 
The Irish took care of fifth­seeded Purdue in the first round, but fourth-seeded Texas Tech was too much for Notre Dame to handle. · Despite Notre Dame's national ranking during the last month of the season, the tournament selection commit­tee surprisingly made the Irish a No. 12 seed in their 16-team region. So Notre Dame head­ed to Lubbock, Texas with a chip on its shoulder and some­thing to prove. They answered the critics by whipping Purdue 73-60. 
"Their [Purdue] seeding motivated us to play aggres­sive," commented center Katryna Gaither. 
Gaither led all players in scoring and rebounding. She tallied 18 points and grabbed an impressive 13 rebounds. 
"This is the moment we dreamed about all season. We felt like we had something to prove to the NCAA and our­selves. We played against an excellent team, but we just played better," said Irish head coach Muffet McGraw. 
"We had something to prove. They were a great opponent. The Purdue defense made it hard to get the ball, but others stepped up. It feels great," stated co-captain Beth Morgan. 
The Boilermakers kept the 
see HISTORY I page 12 
The Observer/Brent Tadsen 

break," commented head coach Paul Mainieri. "I have an extreme amount of confidence in our team at this particular time." 
The Irish earned Mainieri's confidence by outscoring their opponents by a 53-26 margin over spring break, putting in quality performances not only at the plate, but in the field as well. 
"Offensively, we're a very good team right now, but I don't feel we've yet clicked on all cylinders," asserted Mainieri. "Defensively we played real well all week, we 
see IRISH I page 11 
Forward Carey Poor and the rest of the Irish seniors played their final game against Texas Tech Sunday. 


Women's Tennis 

• Women's Tennis now ranked 8th 
vs. Purdue Wednesday, March 20, 3:30p.m. 
see page 14 

Softball 
vs. Purdue Thursday, March 21, 4 p.m.
Men's Tennis • Men's Tennis go 1-2 over break 
at North Carolina Friday, March 22 
Baseball 
see page 13 

at Boston College Saturday, March 23 
Lacrosse 

• March Madness Sweet Sixteen Lineup see page 10 
at Buder Saturday, March 23 




