-----------=----~ 
1 
I 


'1 

Friday, January 19, 1995e Vol. XXVII No. 71 TilE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVINC NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Billy Joel to go to an extreme in upcoming show 
By DAVE TYLER N.,ws Edi10r 
The Piano Man will put Notre Dame in the mood for a melody for the first time in over a decade on Jan. 30. lie will also take questions from the audi­
enee. 
Billy Joel (yes, the one who was married to Christie Brink­ley) will appear at Stepan Cen­ter at 7 p.m. in an unique solo performance set in a surpris­ingly intimate setting for a rock superstar. 
The event is not a concert in 
Billy Joel
the traditional sense of the word. Joel will take the stage in order to field student questions and play a variety of' songs, although not necessarily all of his com­posing. Joel has moved recently from playing large outdoor stadium show to smaller more inter­active appearances. In recent years he has played such shows at Princeton, Harvard and Long Island University at South Hampton. 
"Things are going to be extremely laid back," said the Student Union Board's Julie Wallman who is helping to coordinate Joel's appearance. "I think it will be almost like sitting around your living room with Billy Joel." 
Joel will have a guitar, piano and synthesizer at his disposal and will play whatever stirs him, said Wallman. If his recent shows are any guide, audi­lmce members are just as likely to hear Beethoven's "Ode To Joy" as they are Joel classics likfl "Goodnight Saigon." 
"We don't really have a set format yet, but from what I've heard he really likes to wing it," said Wallman. 
Joel's very appearance at Notre Dame came together in a rather hasty manner, Wallman said. Joel's agent sprang the idea on Notre Dame stu­dent organizers just before final exams last semes­ter. 
The pervasive campus rumor that Joel had been banned from Notre Dame by school officials for 
see JOEU page 4 
South Bend Police to implement use of new Breathalyzers 
By LIZ FORAN Associare News Ediror 
In an effort to continue effective enforcement of drunk driving laws in the South Bend area, the South 



Exhibits display 'domestic' art 
ByPAITICARSON Saint Mary's Editor 
If a picture is worth a thou­sand words. then just take a lis­ten this evening. Two artistic photography exhibits will open tonight at the Monmu Galleries on the Saint Mary's campus. 
The Hammes Gallery of Moreau will feature Lorie No­vak's "Out of Darkness." And "Notions and Nostalgia: Pho­tographs on Fabric," Amalia Amaki's and Suzanne Williamsim's exhibit, will also be featured in the Little Theatre Gallery of Moreau. Opening receptions for both exhibits start tonight at 7 p.m. and run until 9 p.m. 
Novak is a nationally-recog­nized artist who is currently teaehing as an assistant profes­sor of photography at New York University. Her ethereal color photographs of family album­type portraits are projected large seale onto night scenes of landscapes which are intended to evoke memories, dreams, and emotions. 
K. Johnson Bowles, director of Moreau Galleries, says that a trend in "domestic" art is no­ticeable lately. "I think that artists are using domestic forms for symbolic purposes," Bowles said. "They are finding familiar forms and trying to evoke feelings about life in gen­eral," she added. 

Novak, a graduate of the Art Institute of Chicago, has re­ceived numerous awards and grants induding the National Endowment for the Arts Indi­vidual Artist's Fellowship in Photography in 1990. Unfortu­nately, the artist will not be present at the opening tonight due to obligations in relation to Bend Police Department has pur­chased 30 new portable breatha­lyzers for their police cars, according to Mitch Kajzer, a cor­poral in the South Bend Police traffic division. 
"We now have 57 of them on the street," Kajzer said. "Almost every car is equipped with one now." 
The portable unit, called Alco-
The Alco-sensor Ill Po 
•A 
blood 11collol level of .1 0 or 

higher r..ull• In • OUI (Driving Under the Influence) 

•Appur•nt 
lmp1lrm1n1 nen II BAC It below .10 aen r..uu In OWl (Orlvlng While lntoxlceled) 

•Refuael 
to !eke the bruthalyzer r..u111 In • OWl 


the 1996 Olympic games, ac­cording to Bowles. 
The other exhibit featured at the opening is that of Amaki and Williamson. It is dualistic in nature as these artists col­laborated to complete the ex­hibit. Amaki constructs patch­work quilt-like pieces from photographs of people trans­ferred onto fabric as well as domestic symbols to comment 
see ART/ page 4 

Orange Bowl proceeds to fund scholarships 
By KELLY BROOKS News Wrirer 
Notre Dame is projected to receive close to $8 million for its Orange Bowl appearance. Many may wonder where the money goes. Some may as­sume it goes back to the athlet­ic department, but it goes directly to help the· students. 
Notre Dame has decided to use $5 million of the pro­ceeds from the Orange Bowl to make more scholarships, available to students 
An endowment is a perma­nent source of income for scholarships, but the revenue stream takes a long time to now at the level that would help all students. By withhold­ing some of the Orange bowl earnings, more money is made available to students as soon as 
possible. The University will con­tinue to improve the endowment. 
"An endowment is a long term goal but until we get there we will spend the revenue stream. It puts us in a posi­

starting in the fall or t__________J tion to help more 
1996. This is a change from the University's past policy which relied on a financial en­dowment to fund undergradu­ate scholarships. 
"In recent years bowl money has gone to supporting the en­dowment for undergraduates," said Joe Russo, director of fi­nancial aid. "Bowl proceeds will still support undergraduate scholarships but rather than putting all the money in the en­dowment it [the new policy] provides more money to stu­dents sooner." 
students," Russo said. 
The University is committed to making available another $5 million in yearly scholarships for the next four years. The money will come from sources such as bowl proceeds, licens­ing income, and the NBC con­tract, which have already in­creased the financial aid en­dowment by more than $30 million just in the past three years.. 
"The money is great news for 
see MONEY/ page 4 


page 2 The Observer • INSIDE Friday, January 19, ~;95 

•INSIDE COLUMN 
A Needed Return to the Center 
The budget battle in 

Washington has claimed another victim. On Tuesday William Cohen announced that he would not seek reelection. The senator from Maine marks the thirteenth to make the same decision. This 

breaks an old record of  
twelve set back in 1896.  Michael 0/Hara  
In these days of disen- Viewpoint Editor  
chantment with politics  

and their players the loss of Cohen perhaps would seem no big deal, and admittedly per­haps Cohen's decision will not cause a major ripple in the Senate pool. But Cohen's deci­sion could perhaps portend a more serious situation in politics. 
The loss of this fairly obscure senator from Maine, whom most have probably never heard of, will mark a milestone in Senate his­tory. More senators have called it quits now than at any other time in American history. But why the mass exodus? Why would so many want to leave a job that arguably has some of the best fringe benefits than any other? The answer to this looms large and could point to a disturbing trend affecting pol­itics nationwide. 
First lets look at the recent record of the Senate. The recent government shutdowns and budget debacle have brought consider­able negative press to Washington, and par­ticularly Congress. While the Whitewater investigation appears more problematic for Clinton than Congress, several actions taken by the Senate have been labeled as nit-pick­ing, petty politicking producing no serious or important developments. All this bad publici­ty surrounding Congress for apparent "poli­tics-as-usual" business has disenchanted many freshmen senators. 
Second is the disturbing trend to which the quitting of the thirteen senators points. Cohen was a moderate. Many of the others who have decided against reelection were also in the moderate camp. It appears that politics is taking a turn to the extreme much to the detriment of the country and the public at large. 
With the increasing move toward the extreme the middle suffers. A dearth of mod­erates will provide no area for compromise. Politicians pursuing ultra-conservative agen­das will butt heads with "bleeding heart" lib­erals with nothing productive occurring. Constant bickering will cause nothing but a mess. With the moderates leaving in record numbers the Senate is definitely heading in this direction unless some action can be taken to prevent this outcome. 
But what can be done to reverse this trend and return to the center? Is the center where we need or want to be? 
To answer these questions in reverse order I will first say yes, the center is where we need to be. Only through compromise, collab­oration and mutual understanding can any­thing be done in politics on any productive scale in this country. Only through maintain­ing the middle will policies get passed that the majority of the country can live with. 
But the answer to the first question is a bit more difficult. The answer-is not simple but one thing is certain; we must convince the moderates to stay in office. Some politicians are worth keeping. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
• TcmAY's STAFF  
News Jamie Heisler Sports Thomas Schlidt Graphics Brian Blank  Viewpoint Victoria Pratte Production Heather Dominique Melissa DeRosa Lab Tech Dave Murphy  

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacarion periods. The Observer is a member of lhe Associaled Press. All reproduclion righlS are reserved. 
• WORlD AT A GLANCE 
National Hockey League's super puck lights up TV screens 
When a player lets loose with aBOSTON Now you see it slapshot, the puck is trailed by an
The big problem with watching Fox Sports" SuperPuck Is an electron/cally rnodffled puck equipped 
electronic comet tail that streaks

with Infrared emtners that make the puck easier lo follow tor teleVIsion
-

hockey on TV trying to see that 
viewers. Special cameras create a "halo• effect that 
little puck -is about to be solved by James Bond-style technology: a computer chip embedded in the disc to help it stand out on the screen like a neon light. 
The National Hockey League and the Fox network unveiled the high­tech puck Thursday. "There are a whole lot of people that haven't been brought into the hockey experience. This is an opportunity to entice new fans into the television set," said NHL vice president Steve Solomon. 
obviously very concerned

FoxTrax, as the puck-tracking sys­
APIBo•a~och•ru about our core fans. We don't want 

tem is known, will make its debut in Saturday's All-Star Game at Boston's FleetCenter. On the ice, the new puck is indistinguishable from a regu­lar one -the same size and within one one-hundredth of a gram of an official 6-ounce puck. Held in your hand, the only clue is the 12 dots around the edges and four on each side -infrared emitters. On television, the SuperPuck appears with a fidgety, ani­mated halo that follows it around like a little brother. 
It seems Michael no longer thrills Lisa 
LOS ANGELES 
They said it wouldn't last. and were right: Lisa Marie Presley has for divorce from Michael Jackson. Presley cited irreconcilable differences, her publicist, Paul Bloch, said t The action was fJ.led in Los Angeles, said; court personnel could not tmmelot­ately confirm that. Said Jackson's cist, Lee Solters: "I know nothing it." The pop superstar and the only child of the late Elvis Presley were married in the Dominican Republic on May 26, 1994. It was the second marriage for Ms. Presley, 27, and the first for the 37-year-old Jackson. Last year, the couple gave a much-hyped primetime joint interview to ABC's Diane Sawyer, in which they claimed to be deeply in love and trying to have a child. Presley and Jackson were married in a secret ceremony in Santa Domingo, Dominican Republic. News reports from the judge who performed the ceremony were initially met with skepti­cism but later confirmed by the couple. 
Angry driver throws a fatal punch 
SAN FRANCISCO 
A bicyclist accidentally sideswipes a car, tearing ofT the 
sideview mirror. An argument breaks out. With one 
punch, the car's driver knocks down the cyclist, who 
cracks his head on the sidewalk and dies. Murder? 
Manslaughter? Self-defense? The answer from prosecu­
tors in the case of Louis Waldron, a 22-year-old black 
college student with a spotless record, was first-degree 
murder in the death of Patrick Hourican, a 33-year-old 
Irish-American plasterer.The decision to pursue the most 
serious charge possible has stirred allegations of racism 
and political pandering. "My client found himself pinned 
between national outrage over the Simpson verdict, a 
hotly contested mayor's race, and the first contested dis­
trict attorney's race in 16 years," said Waldron's attor­
ney, John Runfola. "This should have been no more than 
manslaughter." Hourican died Aug. 23, and the case 
was politicized when San Francisco's powerful Irish­
American community demanded harsh justice. Then­
Mayor Frank Jordan, of Irish descent and campaigning 
against black challenger Willie Brown, pleaded for wit­
nesses against Waldron to step forward. 
• INDIANA WEATHER 


Friday, Jan. 19 
AccuWeather'" forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 
The AccuWeather®forecast for noon, Friday, Jan. 19. 20s 
FRONTS: 
.......--T""" ...&...a... ...,......,_ 
COLD WARM STATIONARY 
C 1996 AccuWeather, Inc. 

Pressure ~ 
H L B ISSJITIJ 0 IZ38 ¢--~U 
HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY 
VIB Auoclated Pres:~ 
Atlanta 38 Baltimore 31 Boston 33 Chicago 23 
C 1996 AccuWeather, Inc.
Via Associated Press GraphlcsNtJt 
Columbus 44 
to do anything that turns off this audience," Solomon said. "I think there are many hard­core fans of the game that do not need the puck enhance­ment." At the very least, SuperPuck backers want to make sure it doesn't interfere with the game. To that end, the pucks were tested, autopsied and fired out of a cannon at more than 110 mph to make sure they will hold up. 
Judge overturns memory conviction 
REDWOOD CITY, Calif. 

The nation's first conviction based on repressed-memory testimony -a daughter's sudden recollection of seeing her father kill her playmate 20 years earlier -will be retried, prosecutors said Thursday. George Franklin's conviction and life sentence were overturned last year by a federal judge who said the trial judge made two major errors: allowing jurors to find a confession in Franklin's silent response to a jailhouse accusation, and barring defense evidence of news reports she might have read. Franklin, 56, a retired firefighter, was convicted of the September 1969 murder of 8-year-old Susan Nason in a trial that became the focus of a debate on repressed or recovered memory, the belief that a traumatic event can be stored in the unconscious mind for many years and then recalled. The chief prosecution witness was his daughter, Eileen Franklin-Lipsker, who said she was looking at her own young daughter in early 1989 and abruptly remembered seeing her father standing over Susan with a rock. 
United Nations to exhume graves 
ARUSHA, Tanzania 

A court set up by the United Nations to try people accused in Rwanda's 1994 genocide plans to start exhuming mass graves of some victims next month The International Tribunal for Rwanda has a list of 400 sus­pects. but has only indicted eight people, none of whom have been tried yet The court's chief prosecutor, Richard Goldstone, said today the exhumations are related to those cases. He said he expects more indictments March 
10. The Tanzania-based tribunal is focusing on people who ordered, organized or led the massacres. Thousands of other suspected participants will be tried in Rwanda, where many are already jailed The killings began in April 1994 after Rwanda's president died when his plane was shot down while landing in Kigali, Rwanda's capital. The death of President Juvenal Habyarimana, a moder­ate Hutu. allowed Hutu extremists to unleash a campaign of genocide against minority Tutsis. During the next three months, more than 500,000 people were killed The slaughter ended when a Tutsi-led rebel army chased the Hutu-dominated government and military to exile Goldstone did not say where the mass graves are. 
red across the screen. Fox can give it any shape or color with the click of a mouse. "With computer graphics, it can look like anything from Roger Rabbit to Gumby," Fox vice presi­dent Jerry Gepner said. And so, while video games are looking more and more like the real thing, the NHL and Fox have turned hockey into something out ofSega. It's unclear how hockey purists will react. 
18 Dallas 54 30 New Orleans 50 30 24 Denver 36 19 New York 30 24 32 Los Angeles 68 50 Philadelphia 32 25 09 Miami 70 53 Phoenix 64 44 22 Minneapolis 08 -12 St. Louis 31 16 


\t 

Friday, January 19, 1995 
O'Connell earns award for Catholic literature 

Special to The Observer 
Father Marvin O'Connell, professor emeritus of history, received the American Catholic llistorieal Association's John Gilmary Shea Prize during the association's 76th annual meet­ing in Atlanta on January 6. 
The Shea prize is given an­nually to an American or Canadian author for a distin­guished work of Catholic histor­ical scholarship. O'Connell's recent book, "Critics on Trial: An Introduction to the Catholic Modernist Crisis," was selected by a committee of church his­torians from a field of 26 books on Catholic history. 
The citation praises O'Connell for his presentation of a complicated Catholic controver­sy whieh "in its intricacy winds through late 19th and early 20th century secular and eccle­sial culture" and for his success in offering a "cohesive narra-
Special to the Observer 
An article by Kerry Temple, editor of Notre Dame Magazine, has been selected as one of the outstanding essays of 1995. 
"Last Call of the Wild" -in which Temple tells of his trek into the wilderness of New Mexico to pay homage to the late naturalist Aldo Leopold ­was cited as one of the "notable essays of 1 995" in the 10th edi­tive despite the fact that the modernist movement was never as neatly circumscribed as past church crises." 
"Critics on Trial" was pub­lished by Catholic University of America Press. 
A native of St. Paul, Minn., O'Connell studied philosophy and history at Saint Paul Semi­nary and was ordained a priest for the archdiocese of St. Paul and Minneapolis before receiv­ing a doctoral degree from Notre Dame in 1959. 
He taught history at the Uni­versity of Saint Thomas from 1958 until 1972, when he joined the Notre Dame faculty. At Notre Dame he served as chairman of the history de­partment from 1974-80, and from 1993-95 he directed the University's undergraduate program in London. 
He is at work on a biography of Notre Dame's founder, Fr. Edward Sorin. 
In the course of things 
TheObserver/BrandonCandura 

A student picks up his course packet at the newly relocated Copy Shop in the Corby Room of the LaFortune Student Center. Copying is still a service offered at the original Copy Shop in the basement. 

Judge slaps wrist in abuse case
Essay of ND magazine editor wins recognition 
"Don't do that." 
Marshall, 38, was convicted Jan. 4 of misdemeanor abuse for shoving his wife, Crystal, against the wall Oct. 31. Mar­shall acknowledged grabbing his wife by the shirt and push­ing her against the wall. She fell to the floor. 
"Any man in this county who deals violently with a woman should not expect a slap on the wrist. That is not what hap­pened here," Gehrke said Thursday. "The whole thing was staged.... Sometimes women lie. Sometimes women tion of "The Best American Es­says," published by Houghton Mifflin Company. Notre Dame Magazine is the only university periodical represented among the selections, which includes articles from Atlantic Monthly, Esquire and Smithsonian. 
A 1974 Notre Dame gradu­ate, Temple was appointed edi­tor of the magazine in July. He joined the staff as an associate editor in 1981 and was manag­ing editor from 1985-95. 
By ED WHITE 
Associated Press 
STANTON, Mich. 
Phone messages -most of them positive -piled up for a judge who literally slapped a man on the wrist for spousal abuse, a court administrator said Thursday. 
At a trial earlier this month, District Court Judge Joel Gehrke suspended all fines and a maximum 90-day jail sen­tence against Stewart Marshall, then slapped Marshall's wrist with three fingers, saying, manipulate." 
Gehrke played a tape of the trial at a news conference in his courtroom, 50 miles northeast of Grand Rapids, and also was interviewed on Rush Lim­baugh's syndicated radio talk show. 
The altercation between the Marshalls stemmed from an affair that Mrs. Marshall had with her husband's brother that resulted in a pregnancy. Eventually, the couple recon­ciled, and Marshall said they agreed they would put the baby up for adoption. 

4 Goon REASONS To CALL THE HuDDLE FoR DELIVERY 
r ----------, r----------,
$5.99 DEAL $4.99 DEAL
I I I I 
Any Large 14" Pizza Only $5.99 
Large 14" Cheese Pizza Only $4.99 
I I
The Best Pizza at the Best Price 
I 
Now, That's a Deal! I 
Call 1-6902 
I I Cal/1-6902
-1 I -1I 
COUPON EXPIRES 5/20/96 
COUPON EXPIRES 5/20/96
1-----------1----------­
$10.99 DEAL DOUBLE DEAL
I I I I 
I 
2 Large 14" Unlimited Topping Pizzas You get 2 Large 14" 1 item and a 2-liter Coke Product Only $10.99 I I Pizzas for Only $9.99 I Ca/11-6902 Cal/1-6902
I I I I
._ __________ ._ __________
I COlJPON EXPIRES 5/20/96 I COUPON EXPIRES 5/20/96 
..1
..1 

CALL THE HUDDLE AT 1-6902 
We'll meet or beat any competitors coupon or deal, just call us and ask. We Deliver 7 days a week-lunch, dinner and late nite. 
page 4 The Observer • NEWS Friday, January 19, 1995 
then admi,...ister field sobriety under arrest, according to try and is part of permanent . tests. These tests may include Kajzer. collections in places such as the
Breath Art 
having the individual walk in a However, he added, if the Bibliotheque Nationale in Paris. 
continued from page 1 straight line, stand on one leg individual shows impairment, or tip his head back and touch even if he is not above .10, he his nose. may still be arrested for operat­
sensor III, is used as a method If the officer still suspects that ing while intoxicated. A driver to determine the blood alcohol 
the driver is intoxicated, he cannot be forced to take a
level in a motorist suspected of 
may then administer the breath test, Kajzer said, but
driving under the influence. 
portable Alco-sensor test. The refusal to do so will result in anThis model has a three digit results of this test are not immediate arrest for drivingreadout instead of the tradition­admissible in court, "but they while intoxicated. 
al two digit, Kajzer said. 
are very accurate whencom­South Bend police run patrols
Notre Dame Security also 

pared with the breathalyzer in aimed specifically at drunk dri­uses the Alco-sensor, according the station." vers, usually around holidaysto Assistant Director of Notre The readings on blood alcohol and on weekends, according toDame Security Chuck Hurley. 
level cannot be used as evi­Kajzer. The patrols consist ofAt Least two of the units on dence because the units are around eight extra patrols carscampus are equipped with the portable and calibrated only whose only purpose is to lookportable breathalyzers, and the twice a year, so their accuracy for drivers suspected of driving 
Security Building contains a 
levels are not as high as the under the influence. 
stationary breathalyzer 
stationary units, which are Notre Dame Security has nomachine which officers must be 
highly accurate and able to be such patrols, but Hurley saidcertified to operate and from used as evidence in a court­that officers are always on thewhich results are admissible in room. lookottt for drunk drivers oncourt. 
Only officers certified by the Notre Dame property and espe­When a driver is suspected of 
Indiana University School of cially in the area surroundingdriving under the influence, an Toxicology may operate the sta­campus.
officer has probable cause to 
tionary breathalyzers in the "By no means do we targetstop the car and administer 
State of Indiana. students for drunk drivingtests to determine whether or If a suspected motorist does arrests," Hurley emphasized.
not the individual is sober. 
register on the portable unit, he "Very few students have everOnce the car has been stopped, is then handcuffed and trans­been arrested for drunk driving 
Kajzer said that additional 
ported to the police station or by Notre Dame Security." 
probable cause can include 
the Security Building to be test­Hurley attributed this to thesmell of alcohol on the driver 
ed again, the officers said. If students' heightened awarenessand bloodshot eyes. 
the reading on the stationary due to recent tragedies suffered Once the officer has probable breathalyzer is .1 0 or higher, around campus due to thecause to believe that a motorist the individual may be placed involvement of alcohol. 
may be intoxicated, he may 
something." 

"The money will help more students, and therefore we're continued from page 1 continued from page 1 confident that the quality and diversity of the student body 
Joel Money 
our office because it means we
once performing his late 1970's will be enhanced. We want to hit "Only the Good Die Young" will be able to help more stu­make possible a Notre Dame at a Joyce Center appearance is dents," commented Russo. "We education to any student admit­just that-a rumor, said need more scholarship money. ted." 
We want more money to make
Wallman. That song contains Notre Dame estimates that the oft-quoted line "Come out a Notre Dame education more the policy change will effect Virginia, don't make me wait­feasible." 425 undergraduates over the You Catholic girls start much By using the money next aca­four year period. "I call it " too late." · demic year, the University is quantum leap forward," state~ 
Joel's Notre Dame show is accelerating its goal to have Russo. "Over 400 additional being sponsored by Student more scholarships available for students will ultimately benefit Government, The Student 
students admitted to Notre from this commitment." All Union Board and Student Dame. "Right now students get scholarships awarded duringadmitted but can't come be­
Activities. Wallman said a limit­this period will be honored for 
ed number of tickets for the cause of financial reasons," ex­the duration of the student's performance would still be plains Russo. "That shouldn't career. happen. The University loses
available Friday. The cost is 


It was just a summer job. Now it's the rest of your life. 
Remember when your biggest career concern was running out of paper cups? And when 1t was easy to handle any summerjob because it was just a summer job? 
Now you're graduating. You want a career that will challenge you every day and offer a vanety of responsibilities. You want to work where the learning curve 
doesn't flatten out after a couple of years.  
At Andersen Consulting, our challenges change daily, like the world in which we work. Ourjob is  ANDERSEN  
to help clients do what they do. Only better.  CONSULTING  
Come talk to us about a career with Andersen  ARTiiUR ANllfRSFN & tll.. S.C  
Consulting.  Where we go from here:  
Andersen Consulting IS an equal opportunity employer.  

Andersen Consulting will be conducting screening inteNiews for full-time and internship opportunities on Wednesday, February 7th and Thursday, February 8th. Please see your Placement Office for details. 
continued from page 1 
on the individuality and nor­malcy of Mrican Americans. 
"The quilted image provides a more direct way of address­ing the notion of building from diverse remnants, constructing and reconstructing statements based upon my own interpreta­tions and understanding," Amaki said. Currently a lec­turer in art history at Spelman College in Atlanta, Amaki. was awarded the Southern Arts Federation/National Endow­ment for the Arts Regional Photography Fellowship in 1995. 
The other portion of the "Nostalgia" exhibit features Williamson, who transfers im­ages of far'm animals onto re­cycled domestic fabrics such as sheets, pillow cases, handker­chiefs, and curtains. 
"Many so-called proper words for female farm animals are used in the pejorative to describe women, " Williamson said. "My work addresses (these) issues of our cultural relationship to farm animals, and the connection between the domestic lives of animals and women," she added. 
Williamson's work has also been exhibited across the coun-Gallery director Bowles de­scribed the way in which the work of these artists is brought to Saint Mary's. "Artists from across the country send pro­posals, slides, resumes, and reviews from various publica­tions to us here at Saint Mary's," Bowles said. "Faculty and members of the community and beyond review the artistic materials and rate them. I tally up the votes and then invite those artists rated highest who fit into Moreau's schedule." 
According to Bowles, the artists are normally present during opening night of their respective exhibits. This time, however, the artists will not be present. Both _exhibits will run through Feb. 9. 
The next exhibit featured at the galleries will be that of Crit Streed. Streed's "Nature and Relationship: Paintings and Drawings" will be on display in the Little Theatre of the Moreau Galleries. Streed will be present on opening night, according to Bowles. 
T.he galleries are open Tues­day through Friday from 10 
a.m. to noon and 1 p.m. to 4 p.m.; Saturday, 10 a.m. to noon; and Sunday, 1 to 3 p.m. The exhibits are free and open to the public. 

Collision kills jet pilot 
Associated Press lided Wednesday evening dur­ing a training mission, Navy FALLON, Nev. said. Lt. Kevin Duggan was 
Two Navy fighter jets collid­found alive a few hours after ed over the northern Nevada the crash, Petty Officer Michael desert, killing one pilot. The Frazer said. other pilot bailed out and sur­The body of Lt. Comdr. vived with minor injuries, the William Braker was found by Navy said today. searchers shortly before mid­
The FA-18 Hornet jets col-night, Frazer said. 
LASALLE BOOKSTORE 
Your source for the best in theological and philosophical books! Featuring books by: John Paul II, von Balthasar, De Lubac, Aquinas, Maritain, Hauerwas, N.T. Wright, Mother Teresa, 
C.S. Lewis, Newman, Chesterton, Bonhoelfer, von Hildebrand. Also: Fathers of the Church, Vatican II documents, encyclicals, Bibles and biblical studies, prayer, lives of the saints. 
We can special order any bookyou need! 
: ------------------­
1oo/o off all books : 

1 for N.D.IS.M.C faculty andstudents with J.D. 1 
I LASALLE BOOKSTORE 237 N. Michigan St., downtown I I South Bend (at the corner of Michigan and LaSalle). I I 287-0349 Open 10-5 Monday -Friday I 
~-------------------~ 

f'o· 

Friday, January 19,.1995 The Observer • NEWS page 5 
Public colleges see tuitions fall Clinton prepares to 
By JON MARCUS cost of an education 29 percent. students who cannot afford an Associated Press The schools say they have education. 
deliver State of Union 
dropped their prices in re­But whenever tuition went 
BOSTON 

Knowledge may be getting cheaper. After increasing at more than double thn rate of inflation for a decade, tuition at some universities and colleges is coming down. 
Massachusetts public colleges cut tuition 5 percent to 10 pBr­cmlt on Wednesday, onll day af­ter North Country Community College, part of the State Uni­versity of New York, lowered part-limtl tuition 12 percent. 
Last week, North Carolina Wesleyan College said it would <~ut tuition 23 pereent. And in November, Muskingum College in Ohio decided to reduce the sponse to public anger over es­calating costs, and to attract more students. Muskingum al­ready is seeing what it de­scribed as a significant increase in applications. 
"Education is becoming re­garded more and more as a commodity," said the college's president, Samuel W. Speck Jr. "Colleges and universities have been increasing tuition and fees faster than inflation and family income, and each time you do that you're pricing more people out of the market." 
For years, colleges have blamed tuition increases on the cost of giving scholarships to up, more students found them­selves in need, and the addi­tional revenue would go toward financial aid. 
Colleges were like dogs chas­ing their tails. 
Tuition has climbed at double the rate of inflation for 10 years -including last fall, when prices rose an average of 6 per­cent. Tuition and fees -not in­cluding room and board -now average $2,860 at four-year public universities and $12,432 at four-year private colleges and universities, according to the College Board. 
Other schools are now plan­ning their tuition for the fall. 

The Observer 
is now accepting applications for 
1996-97 Editor-in-Chief 
Any undergraduate or graduate student at the University of Notre Dame or Saint Mary's College is encouraged to apply. The editor-in-chief is entirely responsible for the operation ofThe Observer. Applicants should have a strong interest in journalism and possess solid management, public relations, and communications skills. Previous newspaper experience or a background in writing and editing, while helpful, are not required. 
Applicants should submit a resume andfive-page statement to john Lucas by 4:00p.m., Friday, january 26, 1996. For additional information about the posi­tion or application process, contact john Lucas at 631-4542, or stop by the office on the thirdfloor ofLaFortune. 

We have started to take applications for next year. 
Furnished apartments­• 
swimming pool-jacuzzi­tennis, volleyball, & basketball courts­24 hour laundry-shuttle bus­
. 

professional management. 
*Apartments available for your selection.* 
For more information cal/272-1441. 
Address will focus in part on budget battle 
By TERENCE HUNT 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
Deadlocked with Republicans over a balanced budget, Presi­dent Clinton will confront a hostile Congress when he de­livers his ­State of the Union ad­d r e s s Tuesday. His election-year message: All sides must face up to A m e r i c a • s Clinton 
real prob­lems of crime, education and the economy. 
The speech will open Clin­ton's 1996 campaign and pre­view the themes he will throw against his Republican rival. 
The budget battle will loom over Clinton's address, which comes just three days before the expiration of a temporary measure keeping much of the government open. However, presidential spokesman Mike McCurry said the budget won't be Clinton's primary focus. 
"In a sense, he will make the budget fight seem puny by talk­ing about the things that have a much more direct impact on the lives of Americans," Mc­Curry said. 
Everyone agrees it would be an exercise in futility for Clinton to ask the Republican Congress to approve a lengthy list of initiatives. 
Still, he is expected to offer ideas dealing with the econ­omy, education, crime and the environment. 
He also is expected to renew his call for a campaign against teen pregnancy -a crusade he promised in last year's address, only to let fade away with his failed nomination of Dr. Henry Foster as surgeon general. 

Last year, soon after taking control of Congress. the Repub­licans booed Clinton's speech. The mood is sure to be worse this year after a year of hot tempers, angry battles and veto struggles. 
One thing seems certain: Clinton's address won't be as long as last year's 81-minute marathon. 
Republicans happily ridiculed it as too long, and the White House doesn't want to give them another easy shot. 
On the budget. the president will argue that Congress and the White House should put aside their disputes and lock in a deal with what the adminis­tration claims are $7 40 billion in agreed-upon savings. 
"It is wrong for us to defer this because of disagreements that are not necessary to re­solve in order to have a bal­anced budget or a modest tax cut," Clinton said Thursday, a day after Republicans called off budget talks with the White House. 
Republicans portray Clinton as the barrier to a budget deal and hope to make that the focus of the November election. "We'll take it to the voters rather than make a bad budget deal," said Senate Majority Leader Bob Dole, the front-run­ner for the GOP presidential nomination. 
Clinton solicited speech ideas from political scientists at White House dinners. Other suggestions were invited from a cross section of Americans ­from radio humorist Garrison Keillor to Boston University president John Silber -and their ideas were compiled in a green book for Clinton. 
"The principal theme is, 'Look, setting aside all this bickering, we've got some big challenges facing us as America goes into the 21st cen­tury," McCurry said. 
Clinton's focus away from the titanic budget struggle is, of course. dictated by political re­ality. 

INDIANA UNIVERSITY 
SOUTH BEND 
CONTU«HNGEDUCATION 
GMAT,GRE, LSAT REVIEWS 
There's no better way to prepare for the GRE, GMAT or LSAT 
• 
Strategies for attacking individual questions and the test as ~ whole 

• 
Official diagnostic and practice exams with actual test questions 

• 
Homework modules to reinforce what you learn in class 

• 
Vital emphasis on analytical, logical and critical reasoning skills 

• 
On exam day, you'll be more confident and less affected by test anxiety 


GMATReview Five Mondays, Feb. 12-March 11, 6:30-10:30 p.m. at IUSB. $295. Exam date: March 16. 
GRE Review Five Thursdays, March 7-April4, 6-10 p.m. at IUSB. $295. Exam date: April13. 
LSAT Review Four Thursdays, May 9-30, 6-10 p.m. at IUSB. $249. Exam date: June 10. 
PLEASE NOTE The April13 GRE will be the final paper-and-pencil version of this exam. All future GREs will be provided via computer only. 
Both the GRE and LSAT require analytical and logical reasoning. Since most undergraduates have little experience with these processes, a review course is almost essential to exam success. 

To register, or more information, call IUSB Continuing Education at 237-4261 
page6 Friday, January 19, J995 
Neo-Nazi hate cri01e
States t:· kills nine, injures 55 
By CLAUS-PETER TIEMANN 
WASHINGTON 

Associated Press 
The government is giying states seven months to figure , 
LUEBECK, Germany
out bow to catch stores that < · A suspected arson fire raced
sell cigarettes to teen~agers, 

through an immigrant homebeginning a national crl).ek­
before dawn today, killing atdown on illegal tobacco sales. ,., ,tends least nine people and injuring
Congress in 1992 pas$~d a ·.E)~uca'Qng 
55. Police blamed neo-Nazis for law forbidding any store from· "sell minors tob,acc:o 
what would be Germany's
selling tobacco to allyone r. Under thf~ new deadliest anti-foreigner attackunder 18. The so·ta.lled Synar ~must: since World War II. 
amendment,. named for the . . By ~eph , · • . . ,. , . . , . . ....:•···..10 u_,k.~~"''Jl•'•<l 
Three children were among
late Oklahoma Rep.\Mike ffovernment a , ·· , ..· .· .... ·. 
those killed by the fire that Synar, requires states to that sell tQbaccQ . . ··..········· While the S~nar . .·'..·.·•· 
broke out at 3:40 a.m. in a
enforce the sales ban. . an HHS-approved plap, to do '"'ment.m~kes major strtdes,.;y .. 
four-story apartment buildingBut the Departme,Jl;t of lll~pect~()ns · S!ltc Wi~40. )\Otbing about tb~J9e that houses Africans, Lebanese, 
Health and Human Services . mm ·.· .~m """ .. J11el,l)U1board ~hat today ~ts 
Syrians and Poles in the center an evening demonstration. 
never told states how to do the can mea . ing 20 percent of 'in .plain view of a play~ound of Luebeck, a North German A shelter for refugees fromjob -and studies have esti· the state1$ federal substance adjacent to a school mSt. 
port. the former Yugoslavia was also 
mated that teen·agers buy ap-qse gr~Jlts. •.......·.. aul/' HUillphrey S!lid. ..· •• 
Police detained three men on set afire early today in Burg­hundreds of millions of packs • .. -:-In fisp!lil yea,.r ...·. . . . .· 'fhe FJ:!f'. has proposed s~net 
suspicion of murder and arson. wedel, a town 110 miles south­
ofcigarettes a year. enough surprise inspections to .......... imits on tobacco marketmg. 
Police sources, speaking on west, but residents put out theOn Friday, HHS will publish report scientifically how well including bans on a~s attrac­condition of anonymity. said blaze before it hurt anyone orregulations in the Federal states comply withJhe Synar •'lt:tive t? .t?ens or d1splay~d .• 
the three suspects were right­caused major damage. Uniden­
Register spelling out how awendmeq~t AJsQ. tb~y nJ :tu:rre etnl~ren. ga.th~r, in l\H 
wing extremists, one of them a tified assailants poured flam­states must catch stores that develop a government-ap ffort to put underage smok­skinhead -a neo-Nazi with a mable liquid inside the buildingbreak the law and punish proved time frame to meet the ing. An estimated 3 million trademark shaved head. and set it alight; no one wasthem until they comply with law's s~les go!l-1. E~ch stat en-agers smoke. . •..... 

The turn-of-the-century arrested.
enforcing the ban. d! can deptde Qn ltl! O'Ml how l The 'fo~acco. lfi$titute, ho\f· building was reduced to a Until now, the worst attack
Enforcing the ban will help deal With stores thatbreakth ever, satd the Synar rules smoking shell, its whitewashed on foreigners in postwar
"stop illegal tobacco sales and law, and each will have a dif·•·· "would reduce youth acc.ess to walls blackened around holes Germany occurred in 1993 in
discourage thousands of young ferent deadline for imal com7,•• tobacco more dramaticftllY where windows were. Many the western city of Solingen,
people from striking. the first pliance; to reflect that some · than th~•. FPA proposal, Jn a African immigrants flocked to where five Turkish women and
match of a lifelong, life-threat" states alreaqy enforce tbl:i la. horter period oftim~ and 
the building near Luebeck's children were killed in a fire­ening addiction," President better than others. Failure less than halfthe cost. 
port during the day to inquire bombing. Four right-wing about friends and relatives. extremists were convicted in Authorities did not immedi­that attack. ately release the identity of the Luebeck prosecutor Michael
Cal students arrested in protest 
victims, but police said one of Boeckenhauer said today's fire the dead was woman who died started simultaneously in sev­
By MICHELLE LOCKE the early-morning public com­tracting and ad!llissions; the after jumping from a window eral places, indicating arson.
Associa[ed Press ment session. Some students other, offered by one of the re­sat quietly with arms raised in gents, would impose a one-year cradling a baby in her arms. He said the two arrested men 
The baby survived and was were from Grevesmuehlen inSAN FRANCISCO a clenched-fist salute. moratorium on the new poli· hospitalized with serious in­neighboring MecklenburgA parade of students assailed Ten students were arrested, ci(lS. 
juries, they said. Western Pomerania state,University of California regents cited and released when they The committee could vote Luebeck Mayor Michael across what used to be the bor­today over their decision spoke over their allotted time them down, refer them to the Bouteiller called on townspeo­der with communist East Ger­against affirmative action, and limit. A campus police officer full board for consideration or ple to gather at the scene for many.
each student was arrested for approached each student after simply table them. 


speaking longer than allowed the student refused to yield the -one minute. floor when warned the minute 
Students warned board mem­was up. bers they would have no respite As students were led away, unless they rescinded their July each slapped an orange-and­vote eliminating race and gen­black sticker over their mouths. der consideration from hiring, Two proposals were up for contracting and admissions consideration by a committee of decisions. regents. 
"You will find anly stormy One, offered by a student, days ahead," student Joel Tena would rescind the vote that said. eliminated race and gender 
About 100 people attended preferences from hiring, con-
The Observer 
is now accepting applications for the following paid positions: 
Assistant Systems Manager Web Administrator 
Freshmen and Sophomores encouraged to apply. Ifyou have Macintosh experience and are look­ing to run your own network, submit a one-page personal statement to Sean Gallavan by Friday, January 26. Call631-8839 with questions. 


~ 


,W 




Schedule for-.January 
domingo, 21 de enero de 1996 
1:30 p.m. Stanford-Keenan Chapel* Padre Thomas Zurcher, c.s.c. 
domingo, 28 de enero de 1996 
1:30 p.m. Stanford-Keenan Chapel Padre David Scheidler, c.s.c. 
Todos Estan Invitados 
*Please note time change. 
(Z\MPUS 
MINImY 
,~ 

Friday, January 19, 1995 The Observer • NEWS page 7 
..ilk. Blowing 
Tsnow 

States sees strong, damaging winds 
By RICK CALLAHAN 
Associat~d Press 
INDIANAPOLIS 

Ilighs winds gusting up to 60 mph raked the state Thursday, bringing an abrupt end to spring-like warmth, knocking down trees and tearing ofT shingles as melted snow pushed rivers and streams to flood stage. 
Showers and thunder­storms developed ahead of a strong cold front that clashed with rnadings in the 60s that arrived at what's normally the coldest time or the year. The balmy readings were short-lived, however, with a blast of polar air expected to cause a 50-degree plunge in tempnratures by daybreak Friday. 
"You have to have a really strong system in order to havn this warm of air this far north at this time of the ytmr." said Michael Sabones, a meteorologist with the National Weather Service in Indianapolis. "It happens from time to time but not very often." 
At least one death was blamed on the winds, an Indi­anapolis man killed when he was struck by a falling tree about :{:45 p.m. Thursday on the city's north side. The man's identity was being withheld pending notification of relatives. 
Thursday's storms brought 40 mph winds to most of the state, including a 62 mph gust that knocked down trees in the Columbus area. A gust in excess of 50 mph that blew the roof ofT a barn southwest of Alexandria was typical of damage reports scattered across a wide swath of the state. 
Indianapolis' high rose to 61 Thursday, the warmest since a 63-degree reading on Dec. 14, said Sabones. In Fort Wayne, the high was 60, tying the record high origi­nally set in 1973, while South Bend rose to 59, breaking the previous record of 58 set the same year. 
By Friday morning, the un­seasonable warmth will be nothing but a memory. With readings in the teens, about 2 inches of snow are forecast to be on the ground in the north and less than an inch over the south. Winds will remain gusty Friday, producing dan­gerously low wind chills and blowing and drifting snow, the weather service said. 
Thursday's midwinter warmth melted most of the state's snowpack, leaving only grayish mounds of snow piled along roads and in parking lots. The runoiT from the sudden melt fueled low­land flooding that the weath­er service said would linger along the Wabash River, East Fork of the White River and the White River through early next week. 
"There is flooding, but the areas that are flooded are the low-lying areas that always flood," said Alden Taylor, a spokesman for the State Emergency Management Agency. 
Sudden blizzard strikes Plains 
Thousands left stranded in cars and buildings 
By LARRY RYCKMAN 
Associated Press 
A blizzard that seemed to come out of nowhere fast blast­ed the Plains, stranding drivers overnight in their cars and forcing hundreds of students to sleep on carpets and gym mats at school. They awoke Thursday to eggs and juice served by their teachers. 
In Minnesota, authorities or­dered even snowplows off the roads and threatened to arrest any driver making a non-emer­gency trip. Hundreds of acci­dents were reported. 
The storm dumped more than a foot of snow in parts of Minnesota, Nebraska, Wiscon­sin and the Dakotas and sent temperatures plunging. It knocked out power to thou­sands of homes in several states and forced schools and offices to close. 
Tornadoes tore off roofs in Arkansas and Texas, where winds gusted to 110 mph. A man and a woman were killed when the roof of a store col­lapsed in Anthony, Texas. 
Ahead of the storm to the east, record high temperatures brought the threat of flooding, particularly in New York and Ohio. Chicago reached 58 de­grees, Cleveland hit 60 and Jackson, Ky., 69. 
The storm caught many by surprise because it moved in so quickly after a spell of mild weather. In Oklahoma, the tern-

Source: Accu-Weather Inc. 
perature ropped 40 degrees in two hours on Wednesday. Waterloo, Iowa, was a balmy 54 on Wednesday; on Thursday, the wind chill hit 50 below zero. 
"We had a little Florida, then a little Minnesota," said Megan Terry at the National Weather Service in Norman, Okla. 
Minnesota had a little Arctic. Wind gusting to 60 mph pushed the wind chill down to 90 de­grees below zero at Crookston. The wind chill hit minus 72 in Grand Forks, N.D., and more than 60 below in parts of Ne­braska. 
"We went out yesterday just once and that was for food," said Irma Abel in Hallock, 
AP/Carl Fox 
Minn., w ere t e win c i was minus-86. "We'll be staying out of this stuff today. The only time I'm going out is to walk the dog, and it will be a short walk." 
National Guardsmen used armored vehicles to help rescue stranded motorists in Polk 
. County, Minn. But elsewhere, even rescuers had to stay in­doors. "We're not sure whether there are people stranded out there or not," Minnesota State Patrol dispatcher Roxanne Engum said. "Because of the zero visibility, we can't get out there."At one point, more than 200 cars were stranded in Ne­braska. 
7~ ~ Z'aHee 

FRESHMAN RETREAT 
Friday, January 26 (4:00pm) -Saturday, January 27 (6:00pm) 
40 WOMEN + 40 MEN FROM 
Dillon Pasquerilla East Badin St. Ed's Lewis Walsh Morrissey Zahm 
A LIMITED NUMBER OF APPLICATIONS AVAILABLE at the Campus Ministry Office. 103 Hesburgh Library. 
Questions? Call Fr. Bob Dowd, CSC (1-7800/1-5056) 



page 8 The Observer • INTERNATIONAL NEWS Friday, January 19, 1995 
Palestinian election will legitimize peace 
By NICOlAS TATRO 
Associated Press 
JERUSALEM The outcome is not in doubt, nor are the implications. 
The Palestinians' legislative election on Saturday will give legitimacy to peacemaking with Israel, establish a line of suc­cession for Vasser Arafat and create a new voice for the Palestinian cause. 
Arafat, the PLO chairman, will take the lion's share of the vote from his token challenger, Samiha Khalil, a 72-year-old social worker. 
His supporters will also dominate the 88-seat National Council, which will act as a leg­islature for the 2 million Pales­tinians living in the West Bank and Gaza Strip. 
The major uncertainty is the turnout. The boycotting leftist and Islamic militant opposition groups will claim success if less than 50 percent of the 1 million registered voters show up. That seems unlikely, however. 
There is also the threat of violence, especially in Israeli­ruled east Jerusalem and the still-occupied West Bank city of Hebron. In both places, Jewish militants have threatened protests that could turn violent. 
Despite the question marks, Arafat is expected to get more than 80 percent of the vote for president of the Palestinian Authority. 
Such an endorsement will: 

-Transform the peace pro­cess from the policy of one man, Arafat, into a publicly en­dorsed course. That could help insure the survival of the peace policy after Arafat is gone. 
-Consolidate Arafat's local power base and complete the shift of the center o Palestinian political power from the Tunis-based PLO bureaucracy toward the Palestinian Authority, which rules the West Bank and Gaza Strip. 
-Establish a line of succes­sion for Arafat. In the event that Arafat would be unable to serve, the speaker of the Na­tional Council would take over as interim president for 60 days while new elections are arranged. 
Palestinians see the election primarily as another step to­ward their goal of creating an independent state of Palestine, with east Jerusalem as its capi­tal. 
"Most Palestinians look at the election not in terms of the peace process and democra­cy," said Khalil Shikaki, direc­tor of the independent Center for Palestinian Research and Studies, which conducts monthly opinion polls. 
"The man in the street sees the process as a national duty, as part of the process towards building an independent state." 
Arafat, he said, was using the election to create "more facts on the ground" to bolster Palestinian claims to sover­eignty and lessen the political influence of the Tunis bu­reaucracy. 
"He wants Palestinians to make the mental and physical jump to the inside. He wants to keep the empty shell of the PLO on the outside," said Shikaki. 
Candidates have avoided divisive questions and stressed their personal competence or emphasized their mainstream views. Local interests, not na­tional controversies, are get­ting the attention. 
"Nobody is taking a clear, black-and-white position on anything," said Mahdi Abdel­Hadi, director of the Passia think tank in Jerusalem. "There has been no time to crystallize political programs." 
Abdel-Hadi noted that even though nearly half the 500 in­dependent candidates are sup­porters of Arafat's Fatah fac­tion of the PLO, the election will introduce new faces. 
Assad willing to give recognition to Israeli state 
ByBARRYSCHWEID 
Associated Press 

WASHINGTON 
In what would be a revolu­tionary shift, President Hafez Assad of Syria is willing to sign a peace treaty with Israel that includes an element of recognition of the Jewish state, Israel's ambassador to Washington said Thursday. 
"What element, we don't know yet," Ambassador Itamar Rabinovich, who dou­bles as a negotiator in talks with Syria, said at a news con­ference. 
Israel will pursue the offer at a new round of negotiations opening next Wednesday at the Wye Conference Center in eastern Maryland. The talks also will focus on distribution of scarce water resources and on making the Israel-Syria border secure, Rabinovich said. 
Rabinovich, a professor and specialist on Syrian history be­fore becoming an Israeli diplo­mat, described Assad as well­entrenched in Damascus, con­fidently able to offer compre­hensive peace. 
Please Recycle The Observer 
The Voices of Faith Gospel Choir 
is looking for pianists that can play by ear. If interested, please call Courtney Smith at 634-2978. 
Israel, Syria approach treaty 
Such a peace, Rabinovich said, could include Lebanon and lead eventually to recogni­tion of Israel by most Arab countries. 
In another positive step, Ra­binovich said, Syria no longer insists on a public commitment from Israel to give up all of the strategic Golan Heights before dealing with Israel peace de­mands. 
"The decision to make peace with Israel has been a very revolutionary and very difficult decision" for Assad, the Israeli diplomat said. 
Only two years ago, he said, Syrian negotiators were unwilling even to discuss establishing diplomatic rela­tions with Israel. At most, he said, the Syrians had in mind a type of "glorified nonbel­ligerency" -an end to con­flict. 
By contrast, "the Syrian regime is now willing to sign a full-fledged peace treaty with Israel that will include an ele­ment" of normalization, Rabi­novich said. 
Secretary of State Warren Christopher also gave an up­beat account of Middle East peace talks Thursday in a speech at Harvard University. 
"Today, for the first time in half a century, we stand on the threshold of ending the ·Arab­Israeli conflict," he said. "A comprehensive peace between Israel and its immediate neighbors, and indeed with the entire Arab world, is no longer a dream but a realistic possibility." 
With reports circulating in Israel that Prime Minister Shi­mon Pere:; may advance na­tional elections from October to May, Rabinovich said timing is a big factor in whether the Syria negotiations succeed. 
He refused to say whether the reports are accurate. But he said talks will continue "as if there is no early election," at least through the next round at Wye -due to last two weeks -and a trip by Christopher to Damascus and Jerusalem early next month. 
Rabinovich indirectly ac­knowledged that moving up the elections could limit the negotiations. 
He said late October elec­tions would allow effective ne­gotiations as late as the sum­mer. 
That would seem to mean voting months earlier would cut negotiating time to a mat­ter of weeks. 
At Harvard with Christopher, State Department spokesman Nicholas Burns said: "We're not going to intervene in the domestic political life of Israel. Shimon Peres has to make a decision about elections. We can't do that for him." 

The Observer 
The Viewpoint Department is hiring for this semester: 
Associate Viewpoint Editor Assistant Viewpoint Editor Viewpoint Copy Editor 
Submit a resume to Michael O'Hara at The Observer by January 26, 314 LaFortune. For information call631-4541. 
CI'N·'"E' A' A··r··· T"ID(w· s·lti.11f·,,r·
•It r~ ·].\:! ~ ·: '+ , t ltJ :; · .,,··::ib"1 ~ C 
..6ff !1 :1: -:,:,:; ): -~· ::;;; .-:~ It; ;.-.·:···· ·"'-..,, 
presented by Notre Dame Communication and Theatre 
631·7361 
'!4NJRRESIST/BLE 
COJ\IEDYAND A 
JVICKED Dtlf(;Hl" 
~J:N1 ,\l4•.Jfrt' )()it£ THUS 
NICOlE KIDMAN 
TO DIE FOR 

FRIDAY & SATURDAY 7:30 & 9:45PM 
TM-E WOTRE DAME STUDEWT ~ltM ~ESTIVAt 
JAWUA'RY 26 & 2Y. T-:30 & 9:45 'PM DON'T MISS IT!!! 
World Wide Web<http://www.nd.edu/-cothweb/wwwsnite.html> 
friday, January 19, 1995 
The Observer • NEWS 

Yeltsin weathers hostage crisis 
By CHRIS BIRD Associated Press 
KEMSI-YUHT, Hussia 

Boris Yeltsin declared a bit­tnr vietory Thursday over C h e e h 11 n rnhels: They were wiped out by Hussian troops and most of their hostaw~s sur­vived an as­sault that turned a tiny village into a wasteland of cin­ders and c:orpsns sprawled in snowy ditches. 
I lis aeeount, whieh attempted to put a humiliating and politi­eally c:ostly npisod1l in the bnst possihln light, eould not be in­d!~perulnntly eonfirrned. Other governmnnt and military offi­cials· said fewer hostages lived through the barrage and some n~bels survived. 
l'hotograplwrs allowed into Pervornayskaya after the four­day assault found bloodied bod­ies lying in makeshift bunkers alongside rows of rifles and stacks of ammunition boxes. Those images may bolster Yeltsin's image for taking a tough line against well-armed rebels -or may increase the perception that the country is on the brink of chaos and that Cheehen war is a mistake. 


There was no immediate re­action from rebel forces to Yeltsin's remarks and it was not clear if they had reached rebel sympathizers who were holding a Turkish ferry hostage and threatening to kill the Rus­sians aboard. 
Trying to explain why a huge Hussian force took so long to defeat a band of no more than 250 rebels, Yeltsin claimed the village masked a giant under­ground rebel base with con­crete gun emplacements. 
The claim about Pervomayskaya, a remote ham­let of simple brick houses, seemed highly unlikely. 
Chechen separatists humili­ated Russia last week when they slipped past the border into the neighboring Russian republic of Dagestan, seizing hostages to press their demand that Moscow pull its troops out of Chechnya. 
After a five-day standoff in Pervomayskaya near Chech­nya's border, Russian troops stormed the village on Monday, unleashing their tanks, artillery and helicopter gunships on the gunmen surrounded there. 
On Thursday, Yeltsin said his forces had killed the gunmen and would now go after rebel leaders who have resorted to taking hostages and attacking Russian towns in their light for independence from Russia. 
!'We have taught (rebel leader Dzhokhar) Dudayev a sound lesson, and now it is nec­essary to deliver strikes on Dudayev's strongholds ... to put an end to terrorism on Russian soil," Yeltsin said. 

Defense cuts fund U.S. mission 
By JOHN DIAMOND 
AssoLiated Press 
WASHINGTON 

The White !louse is prepar­ing a list of $1.h billion in de­fensn spnnding cuts to partially pay for the Bosnia troop de­ployment, according to docu­nwnts obtained Thursday by The Assodated Press. 
The draft list proposes cutting rnorwy for an expanded neet of B-2 bombers, Army and Marine Corps Heserve helicopters, machine guns, fighter planes and researeh projects. 
A Pentagon official cautioned that the list, titled "Program Budget Decision No. 719," is under review by the Office of Management and Budget and could be changed. 
If approved by Congress, the cuts would provide most of the $2 billion the Pentagon esti­mates it will spend on the year­long deployment of 20,000 ground troops to Bosnia. 
The Clinton administration also spoke Thursday of its plans to provide artillery, helicopters and communications equip­ment to help Bosnia's Muslim­Croat federation hold its own against better-armed Serbs if new fighting erupts after the peacekeepers leave. 
"It's a kind of insurance poli­cy" for the federation, an ad­ministration official said. "It will create a military balance. But if deterrence fails, they will be able to defend themselves." 
The administration is portraying the proposed $1.6 billion in cuts as a modest bite from the $7 billion that the Republican-controlled Congress added to the President Clinton's defense budget request for this year. 
"Based on an agreement between the administration and the congressional leadership, some programs added by the Congress would be proposed for rescission in order to fi­nance the Bosnia (deploy­ment)," according to an admin­istration memo accompanying the list of cuts. 
Republicans would be likely to· balk at some of the proposed cuts. 
"We're going to make the fi­nal decision -that speaks for . itself," said Rep. Bill Young, R­Fia., chairman of the House Appropriations national secu­rity subcommittee. 


cushing auditorium 
friday and saturday at 8 & I0:30pm sunday at 2:00pm 

The Observer/ Brandon Candura 

In Remembrance 
Dr. Roland Smith, Jr. speaks at the forum entitled the Martin Luther King, Jr. Holiday Celebration, 1996: Economic Justice--or Just Us? 
Flat tax stance affects Forbes' voter support 
By SANDRA SOBIERAJ 
Associated Press 
MANCHESTER, N.H. 
GOP presidential candidate Steve Forbes acknowledged to­day that he has put his "politi­cal life on the line" by propos­ing to scrap a popular mort­gage-interest tax deduction. 
Despite some economists' worries that losing the deduc­tion may devalue homes, Forbes held firm on his pure flat-tax plan, urging voters to consider possible broader gains as their overall tax bill is cut. 
"People will have more to spend and the cost of financing a home goes down," the mul­timillionaire publisher told a Rotary Club breakfast here. "In the real world all of us come out ahead." 
One day after a Republican commission in Washington en­dorsed the idea of a single-rate income tax, Forbes seemed en­ergized. He maintained that ev­eryone would pay lower taxes under his 17 percent flat tax plan, and that it would drive up savings rates and push interest rates lower."I know I'm putting my political life on the line, but please go beyond what they say you will lose," Forbes said, referring to deductions. 
Pumping up his usual stump speech, Forbes called the cur­rent tax code an "anti-family, anti-growth monstrosity" that terrorizes the American people. His call for killing the tax code and creating a job re-training program for Internal Revenue Service workers drew enthusi­astic applause from the break­fast crowd of about 150 busi­ness men and women. 
Forbes dismissed criticism that his nat-tax will drive the deficit and suggested that, if this were the case, Washington lawmakers would have to adjust spending downward. 
"If something is good for the nation, shouldn't Washington adjust to the needs of the nation rather than the nation adjust to the appetites of Washington," Forbes said. 
On other issues, Forbes reit­erated his call for medical sav­ings accounts to replace Medi­care; for retirement accounts to replace Social Security for younger workers; and for an act that would put tenants in control of public housing. 

EARN CASH by DONATING 
You could earn: 
$30°0aHer your first plasma donation! 
$1500  if you donate alone (first visit)  
+$  soo  if you show college I.D. (first visit)  
+$1 000  per person if you recruit someone and they donate  

$30°0 TOTAL! Help Us Save Lives Must be 18 years old; proof of current address with photo I.D. COME TO: HOURS: AMERICAN BIOMEDICAL M-F: 9--6 515 LINCOLNWAY WEST SAT: 8-5 SoUTH BEND, IN 46601-1117 2~10 
-~--------~--~--------~~---------~-~------, 
VIEWPOINT 
page 10 Friday, January 19, 1996 
THE OBSERVER 
NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY'S OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1995-96 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief John Lucas Managing Editor Business Manager Suzanne Fry Joseph Riley 
News Editor ................................ David Tyler Advenising Manager...........................John Potter Viewpoint Editor.................. Michael O'Hara Ad Design Manager ......................)en Mackowiak Spans Editor ............................. Mike Norbut Production Manager .................. jacqueline Moser Accent Editor ......................... Krisra Nannery Systems Manager ............................ Sean Gallavan Saint Mary's Editor .................... Patti Carson Observer Marketing Director.......... Pete Coleman Controller ...................................... Eric Lorge 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administra­tion of either instimtion. The news is reponed as accurately and objectively as possible. UnsLgned edi­torials represem the opinion of the majoricy of the Edimr-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Pharo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, leners and Inside Columns present the views of the authors, and not necessarily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's com­muniry and to all readers. The.free expression of varying opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 
Editor-in-Chief 631-4542 Day Editor/Production 631-5303 Managing Editor/Viewpoint 631 General Information 6 31-7 471 4541 Business Office 631-5313 Sports 631-4543 Advertising 631-6900 I 8 840 News/Photo 631-5323 Systems/Marketing Dept. 63 Accent/Saint Mary's 631-4540 8839 

• locAL cow.·. 


Living in a bathrobe beats 'working for a living' 

No office, no boss, no worries, no money. I'm not retired, I'm a free-lance writer. I'm living the life deadline journalists dream of...work in your bathrobe, meet your friends for lunch, cash checks that arrive in the mail. 
The downside, at least in the early part of the free­
lancer's career, is a life of constant rejection. Our early manuscripts come right back with form letters ("we're sorry, but your manuscript does not meet our needs at this time... "). This is nothing new for writers. Late 19th century Indiana writer Booth Tarkington (who won a Pulitzer Prize for The Magnificent Ambersons) complained that when he started writing, it seemed as though "my poor things must have 
story out with an editor for more than a year, and had sent three pleading letters begging for the manuscript to be returned. Finally he got a letter back from the editor apologizing because he'd been called into service in the Navy. 
I remember one magazine that, after months, sent me a postcard apol­ogizing profusely for the delay in con­sidering my manuscript. They were behind, and they'd let me know soon. I think it's been six or seven years now, so I'm not holding my breath. 
So after many years of hard work, you suddenly become a modest suc­cess and start selling stories. The phone begins to ring. (Note: when you do achieve success, it will always come by phone. Rejections arrive by mail.) · 
Then you realize the joke's on you. 

read you what I wrote ... uh, what you wrote," I remember an edi­tor saying to me once, as I restrained myself from putting
Carol 
my fingers around her neck and squeezing. 
Then there's money. I pitched a story to a national magazine last week, albeit a small maga­zine. "Do you need to be paid for this?" the editor asked me hesi­
Bradley 
been stopped and returned from Philadelphia; they didn't seem to have had time to get all the way to New York and back." 
Of course worse than a rejection slip is never hearing at all. Chicago writer Harry Mark Petrakis once had a 
Another line I find even more appropriate is this: How do writers feel about editors? That's like asking the fire hydrants how they feel about the dogs. 
How do I feel about editors? Don't get me started. I've suffered with editors who compulsively re-write perfectly good copy, editing in grammatical and factual 
errors in the process. "Let me 
tantly. Are you kidding? You too can have a success­ful career as a writer, as long as you're willing to work for free. And when they do pay, it's usually late. 
I really, REALLY hate having to make six phone calls to some editor who hasn't paid me for a story. "I've 
'Sometimes the writ­
ing life gets me down... I crave an office, a 401K plan, office sup­plies somebody else pays for ... Then I realize that this would actually entail working for a liv­ing , and I immediately sit down and start writ­ing again.' 
been busy," one editor sniffed self­righteously. Well, excuse me for ask­ing. Would you wait around for three or four months for your paycheck? I have a business, I write for money. Period. And be forewarned: it may only be a lousy twenty-five bucks, but I'll follow you to the ends of the earth for it. Thanks. I'm sure the check's in the mail. 
Sometimes the writing life gets me down, and I start feeling like Disney's "Little Mermaid" ("I want to be where the people are"). I crave an office, a 401K plan, office supplies somebody else pays for. Then I realize this would actually entail working for a living, and I immediately sit down and start writ­ing again. 
I've taken as my motto a famous quo­tation by Winston Churchill, regarding a different sort of struggle: Never give 

VIEWPOINT
Friday, January 19, 1996 page 11 
• LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
The Observer/Rob Finch because my evening visit there with Lucy made it so. 
ANNE RAYMER 

Poor attitudes poison cultural atmosphere 
Loving Our Lady of Lourdes 
The following letter was received in response to a request for Grotto stories to commemorate the Grotto's one hun­dredth anniversary on August 5, 1996. The author of the letter and Lucy's hus­band. Notre Dame Professor Mark Pilkinton, have granted permission to publish it to encourage others to share their Grotto memories. 
Dear Editor: 
I had a friend named Lucy Pilkinton. Lucy was also my neighbor for ten years. We shared a common outlook on lire and love for the Grotto of Our Lady of Lourdes at the University of Notre Dame. But the only time that we visited the grotto together was late evening on January 31, 1993, the night before my surgery for cancer. My prognosis was poor and I was filled with worry, fearing that l would not live to raise my chil­dren. Lucy, however, exuded optimism. The trip to the grotto was both her invi­tation and hr.r expression of a fatih that could conquer the bad news of doctors. 
I.uey drove us there and spoke reas­
suringly on the drive. The night was 
cold with some snow on the ground but 
also dear with a poignant stillness. We 
parked near the grotto because Lucy 
was a Notre Dame empolyee and had a 

Editor's Note: The following is the third in a six-part series mz the Martin Luther King, Jr. holiday. 
Dear Editor: 
Marlin Luther King, Jr. led tlw eivil rights movement of the 1960s with a vibrant energy coupled with his sincere attempt to change American soeiety for the better. King believed segregation and Jim Crow laws in the South allowed for unpreecdcnted amounts of human rights atrocities in viola­tion of the United States Constitution. King used his brilliant mind, strong public spnaking skills and charisma to dimet his people to rise up and eombat l'lagrant injustice direeted spneifically towards Afriean-Amerieans. Unlike any other major light against injus­tice in th11 eountry. King applied a theory of non-violence that drew upon love and compassion for the human soul to dictate the movement. King's vision hoped for an American society which would adhere to the principles of liberty and justice for everyone. 
King's passion and charismat­ic leadership helped the Civil Rights movement attain voting privileges previously denied to African-Americans, end segre­gation in the South and win other small victories contribut­ing to the drive for equality. King and his followers in the South faced an adversary that openly contradicted the words written in the Declaration of Independence and the nation­building ideals of Republicanism and Americanism. Due to obstacles he faced, which were subject to change by lawful means, King peacefully over­came the problems in the South with the process of civil disobe­dience. 
However, others in different parts of the nation faced a much more potent and evil enemy. The racism encoun­tered by Malcolm X was explic­it, not implicit. Through eco­nomic oppression and social stratification, African­Americans have had a unique experience of the American Dream often curtailed by the white majority. 
In James Cone's Martin, Malcolm and America, the dif­ferent leadership techniques. philosophies and backgrounds of each man were explored. Due to their drastically differ­ent life experiences, each man held varying opinions concern­ing race relations. Martin experienced a loving and prominent family within a strong black community while Malcolm experienced a devas­tating childhood filled with vio­lence and poverty within a polarized society in which African-Americans suffered tremendously. Thus Martin 
*'" 
special sticker on her car window over the dashboard. I laugh as I think of her attention to vehicular <;orrectness because the parking lot was empty as one would expect at such a late hour on such a cold night. 
We knelt at the grotto railing and gazed at the statue face of Our Lady. I prayed my desperate request for pro­longed life. Then, we arose and lit can­dles in the grotto's cave. My special intention was for a complete recovery, a total healing. Lucy lit a candle for my family for she was aware of their mental suffering and enxiety, and most impor­tantly their need for solace. We left in peace. 
The following January in 1994, Lucy died suddenly of a brain aneurysm that burst while she was teaching a class at 
was an integrationist hoping to unite all races and forge a new common ground while Malcolm was a nationalist calling for the rise of African-Americans inde­pendent of white control or involvement. 
Almost everyone at Notre Dame can recall some of the words in Martin Luther King, Jr.'s famous "I Have a Dream" speech given in Washington, 
D.C. over thirty years ago. Yet, over the years, King's vision has yet to be realized. His words have been used as rhetoric with little emphasis on King's ~incere attempt to hold the U.S. accountable for its actions towards African­Americans. To this day, racial tension and strife still exists and threaten to tear the nation apart. The Rodney King ver­dict, the 1992 L.A. riots, anti­immigrant legislation in California and the rise of Neo­Nazism are just a few of the many problems in relations the nation faces. 
At the local level. racial ten­sions at Notre Dame have come alive on the pages of The Observer and at local demon­strations. Letters to the Editor laced with ignorance of differ­ing individuals and cultures sparked heated debate among various groups. King's vision of compassion and justice is marred daily by our flippant response to race relations on this campus. 
For instance, the Native American Student Association at Notre Dame protested the murals in the administration building depicting Christopher Columbus as a hero while sub­jugating the Native Americans. This demonstration brought out into the open the much needed attention to the state of race relations at Notre Dame. Many refused to acknowledge the importance and the validity of the scorn and discomfort felt by the Native American population at Notre Dame. Another exam-Notre Dame. She was in good health and good cheer at the time. She did not know that she had a brain aneurysm. I mourned her death as I have never mourned the death of another human being. 

It has been over two years since I had the surgery for cancer and my doctors, while cautious, are also expressing opti­mism. Lucy's faith was contagious. Through her faith and gift of friendship, I do indeed fell renewed in life. There are times when it seems to me that I even sense her presence. That this should be so does not surprise me. All in all, Jesus conquered death. The Mary who appeared to Bernadette at Lourdes was very much alive. The Lourdes grot­to at Notre Dame will forever be a reminder to me of the soul's survival 
pie was the series in The Observer's fall 1995 Viewpoint section. 
An author's philosophy in jus­tifying his belief in the savagery of cultures not adhering to Western, Christian standards brought out furious responses of anger. All of these events carried with them an ugliness reminiscent of Bull Connor's dogs and policemen hosing down children when racism ran rampant and unchecked. Although no dogs, hoses or even blatant legislation exist which openly support racism, there exists a pervading, poiso­nous atmosphere conducive to those attitudes in the aforemen­tioned Viewpoint letters. 
The exploration of that oppressive atmosphere can lead to bettering relationships at Notre Dame. King believed in none-violent civil disobedience with an emphasis on love for humankind. This requires those recognizing injustice to make difficult choices. It is not easy and requires extreme patience and dedication to justice, 
When individuals decide that an entire population is evil and savage based upon a superficial knowledge of a few, it is critical that everyone dedicated to jus­tice challenge others to truly question their misconceptions and ignorance. 
Individuals, however, should not only be quick to admonish the ignorant actions but, and more importantly, they should also be quick to embrace the person speaking these words of hate that merely mask his/her underlying alienation and pain. Notre Dame does have the potential to be a campus with a pervading atmosphere of love. 
A strong commitment and dedication to bettering race relations through open and honest dialogue--minus the rhetoric all too often used to incite anger and pain--is des­perately needed. A good place to start would be to insure that 
Whether long or short, inspirational. humorous or just sentimental, your story -or one passed along to you ­can enrich the archival record. Reply anonymously. if you prefer, or include your name and address. Please send your stories (or comments) to: Grotto Stories-0, P.O. Box 454, Notre Dame, IN 46556-0454 Include your name and address ifyou wish. or none, ifyou pre­fer to remain anonymous. All letters will be deposited in the University of Notre Dame Archives. 
all students are exposed to a curriculum that penetrates ignorance and racism. 
To properly address the prob­lems of race facing our commu­nity, a strong commitment by the administration, faculty and students must be made. Next time a letter is written that addresses an entire group, be it African-Americans, Native Americans, Latinos, Homosexuals, Democrats or Republicans. do not rely upon your own basic and limited "knowledge." Instead, take a step forward and embrace both the author and the subject and do what you can to promote justice. 
DANIELLE LEDEZMA 
Sophomore 
Lyons Hall 



;ACCCNT
page 12 Friday, January 19, 1996 





The Year? 2096. Life in the shadow of The Dome sure has changed. But then again, the more things c still patrol campus with a vengeance. Nowadays, they're floating high above the treetops and really kee 
expensive. And the Admin building? It's huge! The old golden part is still around, but nobody ever g~ SYRs. If you've got the cash, you could dish out $1500 and take the elevator to ther1 


N
EW! For the summer of '96 (That's 2096, folks.), the Hammes Six Flags Bookstore presents the addition of one of its most eagerly anticipated attractions: the Basilica Bungee Jump. Scheduled to open on May 15, the Bungee Jump will be included in the regular Bookstore admission (still just $125, 
O
family of four for just $450!) and remain open until the end of the summer season. Most of the Hammes' traditional rides will remain open, such as the Tuition Skyrocket and ~e Saint Mary's Lake Wave Pool, but structural difficulties may delay the sea­sonal opening of Weather Roller Coaster. h yeah, books can be purchased from 6 a.m. to 8 a.m. Monday through Friday and from 6 a.m. to 9 a.m. on Saturdays, so that book buyers do not interfere with park traffic and alumni searching for that per­fect pair of plaid pants (They now stock over 
50 varieties). As always, mass transporta­tion is suggested when coming to Six Flags on home football and table tennis week­ends. Alternate side of the street parking is suspended as well during these Gridlock 
Alert Periods. If you're planning to spend the day at Hammes Six Flags, it is advised that you leave early to avoid park traffic and student protests. 
CAN'T FIND A PARKING SPOT? 
T
he new D-16 parking lot. built in an effort to ease the overflow 
of vehicles present in the Notre Dame Metropolitan Area during the school year, was opened at a ribbon-cutting ceremony in Niles, Michigan, yesterday. Parking Lot Commissioner Robert E. "Vroom-Vroom" Dalton christened the new lot "another momentous step for Notre Dame Parking" and praised its wide ·spaces, state-of-the-art restrooms, and safe shuttle service to the actual campus. The new lot is intended primarily for the 700 student vehicles allowed at Notre Dame each semester. D-12, built in 2001 next to West Quad, had been reserved for students but the upcoming changes transforming Keogh, O'Neill, ~­Welch, and Philbin Halls into administration buildings will require -­that D-12 be used for more faculty parking. The shuttle service will run every hour on the hour, 8 a.m. to 10 p.m., except during inclement weather. Then it won't run at all. Students should note "I couldn't get to campus from D-16" is NOT a valid excuse for missing class. 
SAINT MARY'S MASCOT DEBATE CONTINUES 
S

aint Mary's College has made some major changes this year. 2096 
S
marks the emergence of men into Saint Mary's when Louis Holtz V, the great great great grandson of the late Notre Dame football coach. Lou Holtz, was accepted into the college in the Spring. The series of changes continued today when the former Tom Boys changed their mascot name back to the Belles due to protests from the student body. It was the eighth time this century the mascot was changed by this fickle campus. tudent body president, Belle Johnson, summed up the protests by claim­ing, "The former mascot just made us sound too unsophisticated, untidy, and unintelligible." She further adds, "As modern womtm ... and man, we have to keep in mind of the image we portray to the general public. I fmd nothing offensive about the name Belle..Plus I want something named after me." Johnson headed up this year's RHA coup, something that has become as big an institution as SMCTostal.. Johnson's motives may be questionable but a return to the roots may be what Saint Mary's needs to raise the dwin­dling morale--a moral lowered by the preeminence of continually poor weather. 
This page brought to you by: Krista "I'm not paranoid" Nannery, Joey "I'm trouble" Crawford, Dan "Yeah, you spell my last name" Cichalski, Ryan "You owe me one Malayter, Brian "Ad Boy" Meyer, Sean "Boy I'm tall" Galavan, Dave "Hey!" Tyler, and John "I'm no fun, no fun at all" lucas. And Ed. He did the art. 
c 

0 
a 
0 



,...
ACCENT

Fri~y,January 19, 1996 page 13 



,_ 
~I 

MoRE CoNSTRUCTION? 
C

onstruction ahead! As of 2098, all dorms built after T
1980 will be converted to administration buildings. The renovations will include satellite television in all rooms used by faculty and staff. Because construc­tion will temporarily shut down WNDU until 2100, NBC will not be available in the student dormi­tories until all work is complete. Students will still have access to CBS, PBS, QVC and The Food Channel. Reception on WVFI 640 AM, Notre Dame's student run radio station, will now only be available in the basement of Farley, the elevator in Lewis and the third stall from the right in the fourth floor bathroom in Badin. he new administration buildings, which will be all of West Quad, Mod Quad, and the new East Quad, will be equipped with saunas, weightrooms, bowling alleys, movie theaters, meditation rooms and lap pools. There will be one student faculty conference cubicle measuring 4 x 4 in each building. The new build-
year grad students will continue to teach all of Notre Dame's freshman year classes, at least the ones that are not already "taught" by DeBartolo's Media-on-call system. 
ARIETALS CHANGE! 
I
n an unexpected joint decision released yesterday by Residence Life and Student Affairs, the University will experiment with changes in the parietals policy in the upcoming academic year. The six-minute addition. the first variation since the extension to 3:15 a.m. in 2051, now makes the magic number 3:21. But the new legislation comes with a catch. The extra six minutes will only go into effect on even single-digit Fridays during the first quarter following a new moon and on odd-numbered Saturdays of each month in which the first did not fall on a weekday. Any student caught breaking parietals will face disciplinary measures. 
AND YOU THOUGHT THE VIEW FROM THE 
FRESHMAN SECTION WAS BAD? 
W
elcome fans to Notre Dame Stadium and the 209th season of Irish Football! We'd like to apologize right away for any inconvenience or light-headedness you might experi­ence today, especially those folks up in the upper tiers. The stadium is currently undergoing it's tenth expan­sion, slated to be completed later this year. After renovations are complete, the stadium will hold 251,307 ticket holders and everyone will have their own bathroom! lassrooms will be added alongCthe upper tier of the· stadium and the old press boxes will be converted to dorm rooms by sometime next year. Because of increasing demands from alumni for tickets, we are happy to announce that the student section is now two seats wide and 4903 rows high! Yes that's right sports fans! You will now be a participant in the largest alum­ni reunion of all time! We'd also like to inform all Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students that we've increased ticket prices to $2096 in order to celebrate what could be yet another winning season for the Irish! 


page 14 The Observer • SPORTS Friday, January 19, 1996 
• MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALl 
Owners unanimously approve inter league play 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. 
Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
Classifieds 
Spring Break Bahamas Party My dad (N.D.'93) needs ND/SMC Faculty couple seeks loving, MISHAWAKA-HOME FOR RENT. ADOPTION Cruise! 7 Days $279! Includes 15 students to care for me when he responsible person to care for our NEW CONSTRUCTION. 3 BED.-2 A wonderful home awaits your 
NOTICES 

Meals & 6 Free Parties) Great and my mom work. Hrs vary SA-2yr and 6yr old daughters in our BATH. $900.00/MO.+ baby. Happily married, financially 
Beaches/Nightlife! Leaves From Ft. 2P, M-F. Call273-4642. home. 25-30 hrs-will split between 257-0457 secure couple will give much love. Spring Break Bahamas Party Lauderdale! http://www.spring-two people if needed. All semester, Expenses paid. Call Margaret or Cruise! Early Specials! 7 Days breaktravel.com 1-800-678-6386 GREEK/LATIN HELP WANTED. start immed. Breaks and finals off. Perfect for 2nd Semester Peter at 800-529-8386. $279! Includes 15 Meals & 6 Graduate Patristics student knowl-Good pay. If you love kids, call Furnished Student Apts Parties! Great Beaches/Nightlife! Cancun & Jamaica Spring Brea:: edge in the Fathers needed urgent-277-7071. Heat included Prices Increase 11/21 & 12/15! Specials! 111% Lowest Price ly for translation and library -large 1 bedrm, $330 0o0o0o0o0o0o@o0o0o0o0 Spring Break Travel1-800-678-Guarantee! 7 Nights Air & Hotel research. Call anytime 219-848-ILOST & FOUND I -small 1 bedrm, $260 QUALITY COPIES, QUICKLY!!! 6386 From $429! Save $100 On 5187. -studio, $235 THE COPY SHOP 
Food/Drinksl http://www.spring-755 South Bend Ave-1 blk west of LaFortune Student Center Spring Break! Panama City! Early breaktravel.com I lost a very special gold heart NDAve Phone 631-COPY Specials I 8 Days Oceanview Room 1-800-678-6386 Will you be paying rent on an empty bracelet either at the JACC or deposit, references 1-800-582-9320 0o0o0o0o0o0o0o0o0o0o0 With Kitchen $129! Walk To Best apartment this summer? Ex ND Senior Bar on Jan. 15. If you found Bars! Key West $259! Cocoa Beach staffer and wife wish to rent your it please call Erin at 232-7991. TWO ROOMS FOR RENT AT Hilton $169! Prices Increase 11/21 Spring Break! Panama Cityl 8 Days apt Reliable, non-smokers, no LAFAYETTE SQUARE TOWN Happy Belated Birthday, & 12115! 1-800-678-6386 Room With Kitchen $1191 Walk to pets. References. We have rented HOMES. FULLY FURNISHED Sr. Patty!! 
Best Bars! 7 Nights In Key West student apts past 8 summers with · Found: pocket knife near AVAILABLE IMEDIATEL Y Cancun & Jamaica Spring Break $2591 Cocoa Beach Hilton (Great arrangements advantages to both Stonehenge on 1/17. Call 1678. CALL JESSE OR BEN AT What... what's going on? Turn Specials! 111% Lowest Price Beaches-Near Disney) $169! parties. Will take first apt on which 634-1838 FOR DETAILS around, Chewbacca, I can't see. Guarantee! 7 Nights Air From South Daytona $139! http://www.spring-we can agree to terms, so don't Lost: Gold rope bracelet. Oh...they've encased him in car-Bend & Hotel From $4191 Book breaktravel.com. wait. Call (941 )425-4404 or write Lost on 1/17 somewhere between 2 VERY NICE rooms for Sum/Fall bonite. He should be quite well-pro-Early! Save $100 On Food/Drinks! 1-800-678-6386 135 Lakeview Dr., Mulberry FL Knott and O'Shag. Great sentimen-'96. 5-min. drive! $250 incl tected -if he survives the freezing Spring Break Travell-800-678-33860. tal value! Please call Susan @ utilities & extras! 1-4809/232-7175 process, that is. 6386 AUDITIONS! AUDITIONS! 4980 Well, Calrissian, did he survive? 
Farley Hall Players' production of TEACH ENGLISH ABROAD-Yes, he's alive. And in perfect 
FOR SALE

Clueless "Royal Gambit" Make up to $25-$45/hr. teaching hibernation. Carroll Auditorium, SMC Thurs 7-9pm, Fri 3-5pm basic conversational English He's all yours bounty hunter. Reset
FOR RENT I I
I
Friday & Saturday 7 & 9:30 in Farley Basement abroad. Japan, Taiwan, and S. The Dating Handbook-2002 Things the chamber for Skywalker. 
Free Admission! Call Monica x4253 for details Korea. Many employers provide THE POTATO HOUSE 8 BED-to do on a Date. Fun, Silly, Skywalker has just landed, my lord. 
AUDITIONS! AUDITIONSI room & board + other benefits. No ROOM FOR NEXT SCHOOL YEAR Romantic, Unique-132 pages. Good. See to it that he finds his SPRING BREAK! teaching background or Asian lan-ALSO 3-4 BEDROOM HOMES $8.95 to Goshen Publishers, 422 way here. Calrissian, take the With only 1 week to live, DON'T BUSSINESS OPPORTUNITY guages required. For more informa-CLOSE TO ND GOOD AREA W. Lincoln Hwy, Suite 121, Exton, princess and the Wookiee to my BLOW IT! WORKSHOP lion call: (206) 971-3570 ext. 2773097 PA 19341 ship. Organize group-TRAVEL FREE Saturday Jan. 20 J55842 You said they'd be left in the city Jamaica/Cancun $399 Bahamas Call 273-3804 for details 1990 Honda Accord LX. 4 under my supervision. $359 Florida $1 09 NATIONAL PARKS HIRING-Great Apt. for Sublet!!ll dr.Stick.Beautiful car. Top condi-I am altering the deal. Pray I don't FREE INFO packet. Call Sunsplash Positions are now available at furnished apt minutes from ND lion. $8400.Call Bob. 277-2560 alter it any further. 1-800-426-7710 WANTED National Parks, Forests & Wildlife 2 BdRm w/ central air, wash & 
Preserves. Excellent benefits + dryer -located at 617 Portage Ave. FOR SALE! I!SOPHOMORES!! Anne Leap • • • FREE TRIPS & CASH • • • bonusesl Call: 1-206-971-3620 ext. $375/mo. plus utilities *Hewlett Packard Desk Writer sophomore four will hold auditions Word Processing Specialist Find out how hundreds of students N55844 Call Colleen at #233-1495 Printer for Apple Macintosh this sunday, 1/21 from 2-7 pm in 
Editing-General Correspondence-are already earning FREE TRIPS Proofreading-Business Documents-and LOTS OF CASH with Academic Papers-Free Pick-up and America's #1 Spring Break compa-Delivery ny! Sell only 15 trips and travel free! "Professional Results at Affordable Choose Cancun, Bahamas, Prices" Mazatlan, or Florida! CALL NOW! (219)257-1766 TAKE A BREAK STUDENT TRAV­
EL (800)95-BREAKI 
SPRING BREAK'S "HOTTEST TRIPS" CANCUN-SOUTH PADRE WANTED ISLAND -BELIZE Students who want to make extra 1-800-328-7513 cash delivering The Chicago http://www.studentadv1rav.com Tribune. Must live on-campus. FREE FOOD & DRINK PACKAGE Notre Dame/St.Mary's FOR EARLY SIGN· UPS Call684-4302. 
ALASKA EMPLOYMENT-Students Needed! Fishing Industry. Earn up to $3,000-$6,000+ per month. Room and Boardl Transportation! Male or Female. No experience necessary. Call (206)971-3510 ext A55843 
Area company seeking accounting professional. Salary $30's. Permanent position. Fee paid. Accounting software knowledge and experience in MS-DOS/LAN required. NOVELL a plus. Call 
219-825-3909. 

Need to sublet aprt at College Park. Only $165/ mo. Washer & Dryer included. Call Tim at 
273-9768. 

BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY 219-291-7153 
HOMES FOR RENT 232-2595 
ROOM FOR RENT. NICE NEIGH­BORHOOD. $300.00/MO. 255­9005 
*Apple Macintosh StyleWriter 204 o'shag Portable Printer. Call 631-7494 all sophomores welcome I!AUDITIONS!! 
PERSONAL 
M.I.B.­

Say a sad goodbye to.the Vein, My-DUST OFFYOUR DANCING Breath'II-Kick-Your-••• Boy, Beastly SHOES AND "SPRING" INTO Chicks, Stinky Hat Boy, etc., etc. ACTION ALL YOU We'll take a ride on the Mongoose BALLROOM DANCERS! CLASS-sometime and hook up with some ES WILL RESUME TUESDAY, sauce ... notes .... Just keep in mind-­JAN. 23, He's just a random Bob with an M 6:30-9:00 PM, WITH SWING/JIVE on each arm .... M.M.D. ;> 
IN 301 ROCKNE MEMORIAL ALL 
ARE WELCOME I DON'T FORGET 
YOUR I.D.! hey, you pump my 'nads 
By RONALD BLUM 
Associated Press 
LOS ANGELES 

Baseball owners broke with more than a century of tradi­tion on Thursday, unanimously approving the start of inter­league play in 1997. 
Each team will play 15 or 16 interleague games that year, the first that count in the records other than the All-Star game and World Series. 
"We have the greatest tradi­tion in the world, but tradition shouldn't be an albatross," acting commissioner Bud Selig said. 
"This will be a tremendous success. There isn't a doubt in my mind." 
Owners aren't worried that the two eventual World Series teams may play each other during the regular season. 
"There's nothing in the Constitution of the United States that forbids that," Selig said. "I remember sitting at the Super Bowl last year and watching San Francisco play San Diego, and somebody said they played last November. There was no less interest." 
In 1997, each team in the AL East will play a three-game se­ries against each team in the NL East and every AL Central team will play a three-game series against every NL 
Central team. AL West teams will play four games against NL West teams, but they might be split into a two-game series in each city. 
"There had been some clubs who were against it in the past when we took straw votes," said Philadelphia Phillies owner Bill Giles, one of the plan's creators. "I just think it's logical to accept it and approve it." 
The Major League Baseball Players Association must ap­prove the idea, and owners said they weren't worried about union rejection. 
"The concept of interleague play in major league baseball is certainly intriguing, worthy of serious consideration," union head Donald Fehr said. 
"As we look for new ways to grow the game and make it better for our fans, interleague games deserve a hard look." 
Selig predicted that the des­ignated hitter, used by the American League since 1973, wouldn't become a sticking point. 
NL president Len Coleman and AL president Gene Budig said that in 1997, the DH prob­ably will be used in AL ball­parks only. 
The union wants the DH ex­panded to both leagues, be­cause it creates high-salaried jobs. But owners have pro­posed the elimination of it in the AL. 
Selig said the DH "is a non­issue." 
"It (the DH) might kill inter­league play, but I don't expect the union to do that," said Boston Red Sox chief executive officer John Harrington, chair­man of the owners' schedule­format committee. 
Owners said they anticipated interleague games will rotate by division, meaning that every major league team will meet at least once every three seasons, but they didn't formulate spe­cific plans beyond 1997. 
After Phoenix and Tampa 
Bay join the majors in 1998, the number of inter­league games could increase to as many as 30 per team per season. 
Professional baseball leagues began when the NL was formed in 1876, and interleague play first was suggested .by Bill Veeck in the 1920s when he was president of the Chicago Cubs. 
The NFL has had inter­
conference games since 1970, following its merger with the AFL. 
"There were a series of opportunities out there for years that we turned our back on," Selig said. 
"We decided today not to turn out back on them anymore. The opportuni­
ties here are limitless." 
Even before the 232-day strike that wiped out the 1994 World Series and the start of the 1995 season, owners were looking for ways to increase at­tendance and revenue. 

In September 1993, they '-------------------------A-::-P=-/=E..,.d~D-e-=G-as_e_,ro 
voted to add a extra round of playoffs and split each league into three divisions instead of two starting in 1994. 
Attendance dropped 20 per­cent last season after the sport's eighth work stoppage in 23 years, and many teams lost millions of dollars. The criticism that followed the strike caused many owners to reevaluate their adherence to tradition. 
"You're creating new ex­citement, new opportunities. You're creating new poten­tial," Selig said. 
Baseball interleague play? 
How interleague play would work if it is adopted for 
the 1997 baseball season: Who would play? 
AL EAST vs. NL EAST 
Baltimore Atlanta 
Boston Florida 
Detroit Montreal 
N.Y. Yankees N.Y. Mets Toronto Philadelphia 
AL CENTRAL vs. NL CENTRAL 

Cleveland Chicago Cubs Chicago W. Sox Cincinnati Kansas City Houston Milwaukee Pittsburgh 
Minnesota St. Louis The schedule: 
Sa1d and C8nttaf Division teams . Games 
12 games each against 4 48
• 

divisional rivals • 11 games each against 9 99 other league teams • 3 games each against 5 15 interleague teams Total-162 
On the final day of their win­ter meetings, owners also ap­proved the proposed purchase of 25 percent of the California Angels by the Walt Disney Co., which will take over operation of the team from Gene Autry, its founding owner in 1961. 
The deal is contingent on the Anaheim City Council approv­ing within 60 days the recon­struction of Anaheim Stadium. If that doesn't happen, Disney could either pull out or attempt to move the team. 
"There are obviously other alternatives," Disney chairman Michael Eisner said. 
AL WEST vs. NL WEST California Colorado Oakland Los Angeles Seattle San Diego Texas San Francisco 

Games 
• 12 games each against 3 36 divisional rivals 
• 11 games each against 1 0 11 0 other league teams • 4 games each against 4 16 
interleague teams Total-162 
"They are not pretty alterna­tives and they are not ones we endorse. We want to stay in Anaheim, but we cannot lose hundreds of millions of dollars for that privilege." 
Owners also unanimously approved their $1.7 million, five-year television contracts with Fox, NBC, ESPN and Liberty and their licensing agreement with Major League Baseball Properties. 
They said they would discuss at their March meeting a plan to partially implement a new revenue sharing formula for the 1996 season. 

-~--~-----------~~~--·

If you are interested in learning how to con­front discrimination, then sign up now! 
The Multicultural Executive Council is offering students, staff, and professors the opportunity to participate in this diversity sensitivity workshop. 
LIMITED ENJ~OLLMENT-CALL IMMEDIATELY 
SATURDAY, FEBRUARY 3 
8:00 AM -2:00 PM 
EARTH SCIENCE BLDG RooM 101 
.... 

BI~EAI<FAST. AND LUNCH WILL BE Pl~OVIDED 
This worl<shop is being presented by the Notre Da111e Affiliate of the National Coalition Building Institute 
Contact: Adele Lanan • 631-7308 Mickey Franco • 631-4355 
r 
page 16 The Observer • SPORTS Friday, January 20, 1996 
• SUPERBOWl 
Sun Devil Stadium fails to meet Super Bowl standards 
By MEL REISNER 
Associated Press 
TEMPE, Ariz. 

Imagine a Fortune 500 executive who arrives in Phoenix via Learjet, stays at the plush Phoenician resort and pays seven times face value for tickets to the Super Bowl. 
Then he and his guests ride a shuttle to Sun Devil Stadium because of inadequate parking, sit on bench seating, find grid­lock in the concourses and at concession stands, and visit the bathroom in a portable toilet. 
It's a scenario that may turn out to be all too real. 
Arizona State's 37 -year-old stadium, seen by the university as a jewel between scenic, cac­tus-topped buttes, is a Jump of coal to some Super Bowl movers and shakers. 
Arizona Cardinals owner Bill Bidwill is seeking public-pri­vate backing for a $200 million dome that would allow him to leave the stadium and still keep the Cardinals in Arizona. 
He's not alone in pointing out shortcomings. 
"Face it, Phoenix," the stu­dent newspaper State Press ed­itorialized last September. "If you want to host a world-class event like the Super Bowl, you have to have a world-class facility. Sun Devil Stadium just isn't in that field." 
expansion Arizona Diamondbacks. 
The Cardinals haven't helped by playing eight years in Tempe without a winning season. 
But few who have been in the stands in the autumn heat question Bidwill's claim that a state-of-the-art dome would help the Cardinals fill more seats and attract lucrative events tike the Super Bowl, which is worth an estimated $187 million to the local econ­omy. 
"Major events like Super Bowls and Final Fours may have a greater likelihood of coming because of a new facil­ity, new hotel capacity, more tourism infrastructure and the like. A new facility is one com­ponent," said Rick Horrow, the NFL's facility development con­sultant. 
Last month, NFL commis­sioner Paul Tagliabue was cau­tious about promising a return to Arizona. 
"What happens down the road will depend in part on what happens with a stadium here and with stadiums in other communities," Tagliabue said. 
"The top level? You're talk­ing Joe Robbie and the Georgia Dome, and probably San Diego." 
Bidwill began his quest in a ._.~~~~;uo,;:v~K;o;yfN"~~_, hostile atmosphere, not long af­ter a battle over the use of $238 million in tax money to 
build a baseball dome for the llllJII!liJ!i:l!ll.!lllall 
MCAT • MCAT • MCAT Are You Prepared? WeAre. ~ small classes of 15 or fewer l::siJ free Caduceus software ~ free extra help with your instructor rsl four computer-analyzed diagnostic exams ~ independently verified score improvements rsl guaranteed satisfaction ~~:JNCETON~~REVIEW Classes begin Feb 3rd. for the April 20, 1996 test. (800) 2-REVIEW The Princeton Review is not affiliated with Princeton University or the AAMC.  

Steelers confident in victory 
By AlAN ROBINSON 
Associated Sports 

PITTSBURGH 
It is as inescapable as a Charles Haley pass rush, as in­evitable as an outrageous Jerry Jones quote. No matter where they turn, the Pittsburgh Steelers keep hearing they can't possibly beat Dallas. 
Not these Cowboys, not this year, not this team. The Steelers of the 1970s were 2-0 in the Super Bowl against the Cowboys, but nobody has spot­ted Terry Bradshaw taking any snaps from center recently. 
But if the public's general ap­athy toward the Steelers' chances is upsetting the mood or mentality of their locker room, it isn't apparent. Each new prediction causes only an­other shrug, and each new con­troversial statement from the Cowboys' Valley Ranch complex barely elicits a response. 
Neil O'Donnell's reaction Thursday was typical of his teammates: So what? 
"A lot of people have written us off all season, they wrote us off when we were 3-4," 
IIIII CIUIITIY BEl &BBEAIFAIT RECIITIY 
The Preferred Registry 
llelerVediUJCII'IDIII rooms 01' privata bomBS for Ml/SMC special evant weeklllllfl: JPW/GradJFootbalf 
• 
Used books bougi1t and sold 

• 
25 categories of Books 

• 
25,00J Hardback and Paperback books in stock 

• 
Out-of-Print Search Service: $2"' 

• 
Appraisals large and small Open noon to six Tuesday through Sunday 1027 E. Wayne ' 


South Bend, IN 46617 1219)232-8444 

O'Donnell said. "There's no more added pressure, because we're just trying to go out and win one more game. You just don't get caught up in it. You never know what's going to happen in a game, so you just don't get caught up in it." 
Just as Rod Woodson didn't when his full-throttle comeback attempt from September re­constructive knee surgery was laughed off by Cowboys re­ceiver Michael Irvin. 
Irvin suggested it would be "scary" for Woodson to try to play so soon aftAr surgery, in so big a game. 
"I don't know what he said, and I don't care what he said," Woodson explained. "Michael Irvin doesn't wear black and gold. He's not Dan Rooney. He doesn't sign my paychecks." 
Chad Brown and Brentson Buckner are among several Steelers who have grown slight­ly agitated at the Cowboys' can't-lose mentality, and they question why the game will be played if the winner is so cer­tain. Still, no Steelers have is­sued any outrageous predic­tions in response. 
As coach Bill Cowher said, "Nobody's making any Joe Namath predictions." 
"The Washington Redskins beat them twice, so they're not unbeatable," Brown said. "It's a little frustrating, and I don't feel as though we get very much respect. But we're not going to earn respect by saying we don't get it. The only chance to earn respect is go out there and win next Sunday." 
The Steelers' best chance for that to happen, O'Donnell said, is to keep playing the style that's been so successful as they've won 10 of their last 11 games: Run whenever possible, keep throwing the ball, avoid mistakes, create turnovers on defense. 
"You have to stay in the game with them," O'Donnell said. "We can't let them jump on us early, because they can really bury you if they do." 
Still, as if playing the Cowboys weren't pressure enough, these Steelers must live wit-h the legacy of their 1970s predecessors: a 4-0 record in the Super Bowl, 2-0 against the Cowboys. 
Happy 
21s~ 
i}.t;>• 
.((A
....-,
..,_ 
I0:30pm 


f 
Houses for Rent 96-97 
•Furnished •Security Systems •Washers/Dryers •4-8 Bedrooms 

Call Pat McKelvey at 258-9996 
DAYTONA BEACH 
I :J J'll,f) JjI 
STEAMBOAT VAIL/BEAVER CREEK HILTON HEAD ISLAND 
• PER PERSON DE~"t;NOING ON DESTINATION I BREAK OATES /LENGTH OF STAY. 
,~,aoo~.stu~-cll•.s'E 
TOLL FIIE!i lloiFOI!W.TIOiol & I!ES5J!\t.TIOIIIS OR SURF OYER TO 0111 WEI SITE AT: 
cushing auditorium 


friday and saturday at 8& sundayat 2:00pm 
Friday, January 19, 1996 The Observer • SPORTS page 17 
Cowboys overcome turmoil to reach Super Bowl ­
By DENNE H. FREEMAN 
Associated Press 
IRVING, Texas 

With all the distractions and adversity, it's a wonder the Dallas Cowboys ever made it to the Super Bowl. 
Quarterback Troy Aikman put it this way: "This 1995 team overcame more than any Super Bowl team I've been on." 
Did it ever, starting with a bad break and bad manners in the opener against the New York Giants. 
Week 1 
Cornerback Kevin Smith, who had been given a $11 million deal just the day before, was lost for the season with an achille's tendon tear in the sec­ond quarter of the 35-0 rout as Emmitt Smith rushed for 163 yards and four touchdowns. 
Dallas owner Jerry Jones, who had already irritated the NFL with a Pepsi Cola deal ear­lier in the summer that shot a hole in Coca Cola's exclusive league franchise, slapped commissioner Paul Taliabue and the Giants ownership in the face at halftime. 
While the Giants were trying to retire Phil Simms' number, Jones paraded Nike chief Phil Knight and tennis star Monica Seles around the stadium in full view of the fans and the na­tional television cameras. 
The NFL later sued Jones over the Nike deal, saying it in­fringed on property rights agreements. 
Week 2 
Jones announced he had signed Deion Sanders to a $35 million contract including a $13 million bonus, beating out the San Francisco 49ers, whose club president, Carmen Policy, called the offer "irresponsible." 
On the field, the Cowboys beat Denver 31-21. 
Week 3 
Deion arrives at Valley Hunch, buys a new home and meets his new teammates, who claim they are not bothered by his outlandish salary. 
On the field, the Cowboys beat Minnesota 23-17 in over­time on Smith's 31-yard touch­down run. 
Week 4 
A $300 million suit by the NFL over the Nike and Pepsi deals jars Valley Ranch. 
On the field, the Cowboys act like nothing has happened with a 34-20 win over Arizona on Smith's two touchdowns. 
Week 5 
ON C41PVS Junior Parrnt Wrekend ~PEOAL ftbruary 15-18, 1qqb 
Come early; stay late; same price! ' Sacred Heart Parish Center has rooms available 
I) for your parents. Weekend cost is $40.00 per parent, whether you stay two, three, or four nights. Rooms are available Thursday, Friday, Saturday 
and Sunday. For reservations, call 2 I 9-63 I -75 I 2. 
Sanders has surgery on his left ankle and doctors say it will be several weeks before he can play. 
On the field, former Dallas of­fensive coordinator Norv Turner picks apart the team he knows so well and the Washington Hedskins win 27­23. 

The game triggers a tempest of finger pointing. Barry Switzer rips Leon Lett, Tony Tolbert and Charles Haley for their play. Later in the week Switzer apologizes for going public with his comments. 
Week6 
On the field, Dallas. beats Green Bay 34-24 but a still-irri­tated Haley threatens to quit. 
It's the sixth consecutive loss by the Packers to the Cowboys and the two teams are destined to meet again in the NFC cham­pionship game. 
Week 7 
Haley sheepishly admits he was wrong for his outburst and begs the team's forgiveness. He says he will play out the rest of the year. 
On the field, Dallas rolls over San Diego 23-9 as the enraged defense produces six sacks. 
Week8 
In a bye week, holdout line­backer Darrin Smith finally signs a contract for $400,000 and joins the team for condi­tioning work. 
Week 9 
Sanders bounces back quick­er than expected and says he will make his Dallas debut against his former team, the 

'96 Late Night Olympics Teams 
Alumni I Walsh I Holy Cross Carroll I Lewis I Keenan Dillon I Badin I Howard Fisher I Pangborn I Regina Flanner I Siegfried I Pasquerilla East Grace I Breen-Phillips I McCandless Morrissey I Lyons Stanford I Pasquerilla West St. Edwards I Le Mans I Knott 
The Deadline for Entering a Team is Monday, .January 29. Call 1-6 I 00 for the Name of Your Hall Representative. 
Sorin I Farley 
Zahm I Cavanaugh Friday, February 2 7:00 PM -4:00AM Joyce Center .631-61()0 All LN()Me~~Were Donated by the Notre DamtAlamni Association 
,:: ...-;-;.<·'~ 

Atlanta Falcons. 
On the field, Sanders makes no big impact in a 28-13 vic­tory. He is used on offense and drops a 48-yard pass from Aikman that skips off his fin­gers in the end zone. 
Week 10 
The NFL substance-abuse policy hits home as Lett and Clayton Holmes are both sus­pended. Lett gets a four-game suspension but Holmes must sit out the year. 
Jones countersues the NFL, asking for $700 million in the battle over sponsorships. 
On the field, Dallas cruises to a 34-12 win over Philadelphia on Monday Night Football. Michael Irvin ties an NFL record with his seventh consec­utive 100-yard receiving game. 
Week 11 
Hype galore over the meeting between the 49ers and the Cowboys, who are seeking re­venge for a 38-28 loss in the NFC championship game the year before. Sanders and Jerry Hice exchange verbal shots. 
On the field, San Francisco whips Dallas 38-20 as Rice catches an 81-yard touchdown pass on the second play. 
Aikman is knocked out with a bruised tendon in his left knee in the first quarter. 
Week 12 
Some Cowboys players pri­vately question why Aikman didn't at least return to the sidelines in the second half of the 49ers game. 
Most players are in a snit with the media and hide out. 
Cornerback Larry Brown's son dies three days before the game. 
On the field, Dallas beats Oakland 34-21 as Smith scores three touchdowns and Sanders intercepts his first pass. 
Week 13 
Haley goes to Los Angeles to have his back cheeked. Middle linebacker Hobert Jones is hos­pitalized with an ear infection. 
On the field, center Hay Donaldson breaks a leg and Emmitt Smith sprains a knee but the Cowboys win a Thanksgving Day match with Kansas City 24-12. 
Week 14 
Lett returns from his suspen­sion. Smith recovers from knee sprain and Jones says some­thing like that won't happen in 1996 because he's going to plant grass in Texas Stadium. 
On the field, Smith rushes for 91 yards but Washington shocks the Cowboys again 24­17. 
Week 15 
Haley, who has a herniated disk, announces his retirement from football for the second time in a year. The next day he changes his mind and says he will return to the Cowboys as soon as possible. 
On the field, Switzer's fourth­down gamble on his own 29 late in the fourth period makes him the subject of national ridicule. The Cowboys fail twice 
to  make  a  yard  and  
Philadelphia wins on  a  field  
goal 20-17.  

The Dallas Morning News headlines it "Fiasco in Philly." An eastern newspaper call.s Switzer "Bozo the Coach." Switzer says: "We're shat­tered right now." 
Week 16 
Jones backs Switzer, saying he will return as coach. Jones backs his earlier statement that Switzer will be back unless "he is shot or hit by a truck." 
Sanders goes on a tirade in the Dallas locker room, saying "Switzer is doing a good job. Get off his back." 
On the field, the struggling Cowboys get lucky as Chris Boniol makes five field goals, including a 35-yarder with 0:00 on the clock, in a 21-20 win over the Giants. 
Week 17 
Defensive line coach John Blake takes the Oklahoma job and Switzer gives him permis­sion to leave the team. 
On the field, the Cowboys beat Arizona Christmas night to earn the NFC East title, and home-field advantage through­out the playoffs. 
The Playoffs 
The finally together Cowboys get a week's rest to heal physi­cal and mental wounds and roll into Tempe with a 30-11 win over Philadelphia and a 38-27 win over Groen Bay. 

The Observer 
is now accepting applications for the following position: 
Assistant Accent Editors Accent Copy Editors 
Freshman and Sophomores encouraged to apply. Please submit a one-page personal statement to Krista in 315 LaFortune by January 251h. Call631-4540 with questions. 


page 18 The Observer· SPORTS Friday, January 19, 1996 
•NFL Heart failure claims Fats 
Pearl Irvin upset over 
Associated Press He was known earlier in his earth. It meant something to pool days as New York Fats, Gleason and them people. NASHVILLE, Tenn. but became known as Gleason used to rack balls for
son's use of profanity 
Minnesota Fats, the sharp Minnesota Fats because of me when he was a kid in 
By JIM LITKE 
Associated Press 
Michael Irvin insists he will say what he wants whenever he wants. His mom says not so fast. 
"I will be talking with my boy," Pearl Irvin said from her home in Ft. Lauderdale, Fla. "I don't need to tell you he didn't learn to speak that way in this house." 
Pearl Irvin chuckled softly through much of the Thursday morning conversation. 
That means her son, better known as the Dallas Cowboys' 29-year-old perennial Pro Bowl receiver, probably will avoid a spanking. 
But she said grown man or not, he won't get off without a scolding, at the very least, for his choice of words on several occasions in recent days. 
Irvin first created an uproar last weekend while addressing a Texas Stadium crowd and a live national television audi­ence during presentation of the NFC championship trophy. In defending beleaguered coach Barry Switzer, he let slip a four-letter word. 
Given a chance to apologize Wednesday, Irvin instead faced the battery of TV cameras at the Cowboys Valley Ranch training facility and repeated the same word five times. 
He then defied anyone to stop 
him from expressing himself in 
any manner he chooses. His 
mom planned to take up the 
gauntlet. 
Don't Get Left Out In The Cold 
Heat is Included in Your Rent! Plus Gas For 
Cooking &Hot Water 
Efficiencies from $290 1-Bedrooms from $305 2-Bedrooms from $375 
24-Hr. Emergency Maintenance Free Aerobics Classes Attentive Staff Community Activities Pool &Sundeck Clubhouse Air Conditioning Laundry Facilities Cable TV Available Beautiful Landscaping Close to Shopping 


Call or stop by today and we'll show you how great liVing at Hickory Village can be. 
rHlCKORl] 
DlLLA~E-
Mon.-Fri. 8-6, Sat. 10·4 & Sun. 12-4 

"I almost fell through the floor the first time he said it," Pearl Irvin recalled. "I have never in my life heard Michael talk that way. "He told me, 'Mama, I'm sorry.' And I said, 'Michael, you know that's no way to talk, es­pecially not when you're speak­ing in public. And especially when you've got a little brother coming up who listens to every­thing you say. You wouldn't want him speaking like that.'  shooting, boastful billiard wiz­ard portrayed in the movie "The Hustler," died today, a day before his birthday. Fats died of congestive heart failure, his wife, Theresa, said. His age was a matter of dis­pute. Associates said he was born Jan. 19, 1900, but a 1966 biography, "Bank Shot," listed his date of birth as Jan. 19, 1913. "He always said, 'St. Peter, rack 'em up,' " his wife re­ Gleason's character in the movie. He wrote in his autobiogra­phy that technical advisers to the movie based the character of Minnesota Fats on him, and he became known by that name because of the popularity of the film. "Right after the movie hit the theaters all over the country, every living human started calling me Minnesota Fats," he wrote. _  Brooklyn and in Long Island." "Paul Newman is not a very good pool player. But he can make it look good. Now Gleason can play. Gleason can hustle. He could play pool for a living and make a living because he's plenty smart." Wanderone could shoot pool with either hand and was known for wearing $100 bills in the handkerchief pocket of his suits.  
"Now," she added, "I've got to remind him one more time. "My sister called me up the first time he said that on TV, and she said she was going to write him a letter," Pearl Irvin  called in announcing his death. Fats, whose real name was Rudolf Wanderone Jr., was portrayed by Jackie Gleason in the 1961 movie that starred Paul Newman.  In the movie, the character Minnesota Fats was a dapper, deadeye pool player challenged by a younger player (Newman) out to win his respect. Wanderone said in the 1988  Wanderone suffered a heart attack in 1992. The same year, he married Theresa Ward Bell. A previous marriage ended in divorce. In September 1993, he be­came disoriented and was in­ 
said. 'Til bet if he got that in the mail, he's being careful about what he says already."  He was born in New York City and played pool all his life in various parts of the country.  interview that the movie "didn't mean nothin' to me. I'm known clean around the  voluntarily committed to a psy­chiatric ward at Vanderbilt University Medical Center.  

B:DD pm Washingtcn Hall Saturday, January 20, 199Ei 
~~~ 

$3.[][] Students $5.[][] llDn-Students SpDnsDred by Student UniDn BDard and Student Rctivities Office 

Friday, January 19, 1996 The Observer • SPORTS page 19 
last three games after spending much of the season on the
Hockey 
bench, but fans should expect 
The Shark's back at it again 
continued from page 24 to see sophomore Matt Eisler 
(4.27 GAA) in goal for at least 
Notre Dame will begin their part of the weekend. push for the playofl's this week-• Michigan has been a main­end when they host Illinois-stay at the top of the CCHA Chicago tonight at the Joyce standings for the past several Center before traveling to Ann years, and this season is no Arbor to face Michigan on exception. Saturday night. The 18-4 Wolverines boast 
Like the Irish, Illinois-Chicago the league's highest scoring of­has suffered through their fense (5.86 goals per game) and share of problems this season. the CCIlA's stingiest defense 
(2.18). 
By ROB GLOSTER 
Associated Press 
FRESNO, Calif. Success on the court. Trouble orr it. 
Those elements have been constants in the coaching ca­reer of Jerry Tarkanian, and his first year at Fresno State has been no exception. 

the past decade. 
Now, the Bulldogs are bat­tling for the Western Athletic Conference lead after knocking off ranked teams New Mexico and Utah. They're threatening to reach the NCAA tournament for the first time since 1984. 
And this city has gone wild over Tarkanian, who graduated from Fresno State in 1955 after hotel room rented by point guard Dominick Young for a New Year's Eve party. 
There were six basketball players at the party and about two dozen other people. Young, who said he left the party be­fore the room was vandalized and stripped of furnishings, has agreed to pay the hotel $1 ,500. 
A hotel security guard also 

The 7-13-3 Flames have struggled at the offensive end, averaging an abismal 2.87 goals per contest. 
Forwards Tony Kolozsy (21 points), Mike Peron (20), and Chuck Mindel (20) have been solid, hut few others have con­tributed for the Flames. 
With that in mind, one would think that the Irish defense would have little trouble con­taining the floundering Flame ol1'ensfl. 
However, UIC was able to ~~seape with a 3-2 victory at the .Ioyce Center back on November 10. 
Freshman Benoit Cotnoir, se­nior Jeremy Coe, junior Ben Nelsen, senior Garry Gruber, junior Brian McCarthy, and the rest of the defense have ele­vated their lnvel of play after a tough beginning. 
Cotnoir and McCarthy have even contributed 12 points apinee at the offensive end. 
"We have shown flashes all season, but we've had prob­lnms being consistent for three periods," said Poulin. "At this stage of the season, you have to be consistent to win in this league." 
Senior goaltender Wade Salzman (2. 7 4 Goals Against Average) has emerged in his 
Michigan forwards Brendan Morrison (40 points) and Kevin Hilton (39) rank 1-2 in the league in scoring, while sopho­more Marly Turco is the con­ference's top goaltender with a 
2.28 GAA 
"They are a strong team at both ends of the ice," said team captain Brett Bruininks. "They will be tough to beat since they don't really have any weak­nesses on either offense or de­fense." 
The Irish offense will have their hands full keeping pace with their Michigan counter­parts. 
Senior center Jaimie Ling (21 points). freshman right wing Brian Urick (16), junior right wing Tim Harberts (13), and freshman left wing Aniket Dhadphale (14) will need to come up big for the Irish to have any chance of knocking off the heavily favorited Wolverines. 
"We've struggled some offen­sively, and it has shown," said Urick. 
"We know that we are run­ning out of time, and that we need to become more con­sistent and start converting more of our opportunities." 
Indeed, time is a commodity the Irish do not have. 
The coach with the best win­playing for the Bulldogs for two has accused forward Darnell ning percentage in college bas­seasons. McCulloch of punching him that ketball history, Tarkanian has The players' biggest problems night. No criminal charges have turned around a team that has have come off the court -been filed against Young or had just two winning seasons in including the trashing or a local McCulloch. 
Loss 
continued from page 24 

of the half, they failed to trim the lead to less than five points. With 8:28 remaining in the half, Jeannine Augustin hit a key three-point basket to pull the Irish to within six. After a television timeout and a three pointer by Connecticut guard Jennifer Rizzotti, Notre Dame trimmed the lead to five points on a steal and breakaway layup from Mollie Peirick. 
After going into the locker room at halftime with an eleven point deficit, the Irish attempted 
Irish 
continued from page 24 
travel to Storrs to face these same Huskies on their home court on February 24. The Irish are still 6-1 in the Big East, a mark which remains, for the time being at least, bet­ter than UConn's 4-1 record. An 11-4 overall mark is nothing to grumble about either. 
It's not often either that the Irish will face such a defense. How impressive was the Huskie 

CAMPUS BIBLE STUDY 
Register for the Spring Semester 
Do you have some questions about Bible Studies? Come to the Open House to get answers. 
Do You Wonder ... Why Study the Bible? How to study the Bible? 
What is Faith Sharing? How to apply Bible Teachings to present day situations? 
Come to ask questions and grow in the wisdom of the Lord. Find out what CBS is all about. 
Tuesday, January 23, 1996 7:00p.m. The Conference Room Campus Ministry Office Badin Hall 
Fr. AI D'Alonzo, CSC-Director 
Bring your Olrln 8ibfe or one lrliff be provided fhere lrliff be a soda{ period after the Dpen House. 
to close the gap early in the second half. Connecticut, however. increased its lead to 18 points. Notre Dame's last serious threat to the Huskies occurred when Beth Morgan hit a turn­around jumper to cut the deficit to eight. Connecticut dominated for the remainder of the second half to win the contest by 23 points. 
Despite Connecticut's impressive win, Connecticut head coach Geno Auriemma com­mented on his great concern heading into last night's contest. 
"I would not have been surprised if we had lost tonight. It has been tough keeping the team fresh during this stretch. We had some players really step up," stated Auriemma. 

defense? "That's the best de­fensive team we've played all year," said a somber Muffett McGraw following a game in which the Irish pulled down a respectable 39 rebounds to UConn's 46. Wolters had 14 of those 46 boards, and sopho­more guard Nykesha Sales, who normally pulls down 4 re­bounds a game, had 10, to go along with a season-high 24 points. 
It's also not often that Morgan, who UConn head coach Geno Auriemma called "a great player, one who I would love to have" will have such an off night. Morgan is a true leader on this team, a player the irish simply wouldn't be as dangerous without. Auriemma and his troops knew this coming into the game, and they adjusted their game plan to neutralize the high-scoring junior. ·· 
The plan worked, and the Huskies walked away with their fifteenth victory in 18 games so 
for 
far this year. They won be­cause they have more talent and depth, but they also won because they wanted it bad enough. 
"Our kids are pretty deter­mined," said Auriemma, a man accustomed to winning. "When I tell them they're playing against a great player, they respond. They usually rise to the occasion when they face a challenge, and they did tonight." 
"You can't let fatigue be a factor," said the warrior Wolters. "You can't make any excuses." 
The Irish didn't have many excuses in the aftermath, just tears. Their spirits had been broken, crushed under the wheels of Wolters and the mighty Huskie machine. 
"She's an outstanding play­er," said McGraw of Wolters. "She'll probably join the Olympic team based on tonight's highlight film alone." 

Junior Parents Weekend Liturgy 
will take place on Tuesday, Jan. 23 and Wednesday, Jan24, 1996 at 4:00p.m. in the Basilica of the Sacred Heart. 
All Juniors are invited to participate in these auditions. 


(l\MPUSMINISTRY 
For additional infomration: Ca/1631·5242 
r----~-----~-~-----~~-------------~~-----~-~~ 
page 20 The Observer • SPORTS Friday, January 19, 1996 
• COllEGE BASKETBAll 
Doctors confused, but Meyer braces for losing season 
ByRICKGANO

Camby cleared to play 
Associated Press 

By HOWARD ULMAN 
Associated Press 
WORCESTER, Mass. 

Marcus Camby was cleared Thursday to play again for top­ranked Massachusetts after tests turned up no problems. However, doctors are still try­ing to find out why he col­lapsed. 
Camby. who passed out for 10 minutes before Sunday's game at St. Bonaventure, left University of Massachusetts Medical Center, where he un­derwent four days of extensive tests. 
The junior center won't play Saturday at Duquesne, but coach John Calipari didn't rule out a return Tuesday at Pittsburgh. Camby, one of the nation's best players, did not accompany the team Thursday to Duquesne. 
"When he'll play will be up to Marcus," Calipari said at a news conference at the medical center. "He's not going to play for a game or two or three." 
Dr. Gerald Steinberg, chief medical officer of the hospital, said Camby, who did not attend the news conference, was feel­ing well but was tired from the tests. 
Calipari said Camby might start shooting Friday but wouldn't participate immedi­ately in a full-scale practice. 
"For the next week or so we'll see how he feels and then we'll move on," Calipari said. 
Earlier in the week, team doctors had said Camby would be out at least 10 days to two weeks. 
Massachusetts improved its· record to 15-0 with a 77-71 win over Rhode Island on Wednesday night, its second straight game without the 6­foot-11 Camby. 
After the two-game road trip, the Minutemen return home to play St. Bonaventure on Jan. 27. 
Calipari said he would be comfortable using Camby since any health problems that would endanger the player have been ruled out. The coach said doc­tors told him Camby is a "very healthy individual." 
They said results of heart and neurological tests were normal and they didn't seem seriously 
concerned about not finding 
CHICAGO
out why Camby collapsed. No Joey Meyer was still dripping cause is found in about half the with sweat nearly 30 minutescases of fainting, said Dr. David after his DePaul Blue DemonsDrachman, chair of neurology had lost yet another basketballat the medical center. 
game in a season that is quickly 
"We frequently just don't 
slipping out of control. 

identify why someone may black out," he said. "We do see "Did anyone else think it was
people who black out even hot in there?" Meyer asked,
longer than (10 minutes). Keep wiping his face and knowingin mind we're talking about 10 the heat will truly be on theminutes in 21 years." 
next seven weeks as DePaulDrachman asked how many tries to regroup and avoid itspeople at the news conference first losing season in 25 years. 
had ever passed out. Calipari Once a national power withraised his hand and said, "last names like Mark Aguirre and
night at halftime." The 
Terry Cummings, the BlueMinutemen were tied 36-36 . Demons are foundering.
before pulling away in the sec­They've lost five straight, start­ond half. 
ed 0-4 in the new Conference
Drachman said doctors are 
USA, fallen to 7-8 overall andawaiting results of some tests 
been depleted by academic
but didn't know the likelihood problems and injuries. 
of eventually finding a cause. By exerting himself in 
a r-!1."""----------­
game,Camby,whoisavera~ng 
20.9 points, 7.5 rebounds and 
3.2 blocks, is no more likely 
than a non-athlete to suffer a health problem, he added. 
"There are no guarantees in life," Drachman said. "This (collapse) occurred when he 
was standing stilL" 
Camby passed out after warming up and was taken to Olean {N.Y.) General Hospital. Tests were done there before his transfer Monday to Worcester. 
A screening for drugs and toxic substances done at the medical center were negative, Steinberg said. 
Before leaving the hospital around noon Sunday, Camby met with youngsters in the pe­diatrics unit, where he signed autographs. But he was eager to go home. 
"When I walked into his room today (he said) where were you?" Calipari said. "I was 12 minutes late." 
Before being discharged at about noon, Camby was at­tached to an ambulatory EEG, which monitors brain waves. Doctors planned to remove it after 48 hours. 
"My best guess is that it will be all normal," Drachm an said. 
Dr. Joel Gore, director of car­diology at the medical center, said tests that included an MRI and echocardiogram ruled out heart problems. 
2o-75% tJU Sdeaed ·Vintage Levis ·Over 40 styles. of hats ·Urban Outfitters •Belts ·Socks· Tights 
•Coats/Jackets ·Handbags/Purses ·Handcrafted Beaded Beaded •Petites ·Select Hats ss 
& Silver Jewelry 1912 s. 11th (U.S. 31133) 2 'k miles north of state line 
Layaway& 
Belle Plaza, Niles

Alterations Available 
687-9123 
M-F 1 ~~~~ to-6 Open sUn. 12-<4 

So Meyer will have to be more than just a coach. He'll also have to be a motivator, a counselor and a critic to his sh01:thanded and crestfallen team. 
He doesn't want his players "to start fixing blame instead of solving problems." 
"I've got to keep the guys to­gether. I think we can do better than we are doing. We are in a situation where we can't afford a whole lot of slippage. There's not a lot of margin for error," Meyer said after a 73-60 Joss to Marquette on Wednesday. 
DePaul, which hasn't made the NCAA tournament since the 1991-92 season, has not had a losing record since coach Ray Meyer's 1970-71 team went 8­17, one of only five losing sea­sons he had in 42 years. 
The Blue Demons have been first-round losers in the NIT the 
· last two seasons, fmishing with 17-11 and 16-12 records. They were 16-15 in 1992-93 and stayed home during the post­season. Joey Meyer's best season came in 1986-87 when the Blue Demons finished 28-3 with two wins in the NCAA tournament. He's taken DePaul to seven NCAA and three NIT's in his previous 11 seasons. Meyer, who signed a new four-year contract before this season, has heard from his crit­ics the last several years. Now his task is even more difficult. ''I'm not going to avoid peo­ple and not worry about what's said or printed. I'm going to do the best I can to get my team to compete," he said. ''I'm not going to walk around and cry. I'm going to try to be upbeat." DePaul dressed 11 Wednesday night; only eight were scholarship players. 

r-----------------------------------------------~
WANTED•. b Th Ob N D t
y e server ews ep 
1 .

Talented Dedicated Individuals for the Following Paid Posit1"ons·. 
News Copy Editor 
Interested? Submit a one-page resume per­sonal statement to Dave Tyler, News Editor; in Rm 314 LaFortune by Monday, Jan. 22. Questions? Call Dave at 1-5323. 
THE ARCOLA 
ROOMCORN ENT IS CALLING YOUR NAME! 
LOVE THE TRIBE 

NEW THEOLOGY COURSES LITERARY CATHOLICISM 
taught by Professor Charles Gordon 
THEO 286 Sec. 01-#4495-3:25-4:15 MWF 
THEO 286 Sec. 02-#4494-2:20-3:10 MWF 
116 O'Shaughnessy 

This course employs twentieth century novels by Catholic Authors in an exploration of the Church's theological and cultural traditions. 
~ 
------~-l 

Friday, January 19, 1996 The Observer· SPORTS page 21 
Knight, Pitino star in Taco Bell commercial 
Associated Press 
BLOOMINGTON, Ind. 

Though Bob Knight hates to lose -especially to rival Kentucky -the Indiana University basketball coach plays seeond-liddle to Kentucky wach Hick Pitino in a new Taco BPII commercial. 
In the commercial lilmed this week in Bloomington, Pitino, Knight and Georgetown coach John Thompson are vying for a lanky, 7-foot high school bas­ketball recruit. 
In addition to a great educa­tion, Knight entices the player with a soft taco; Thompson of­fers him a crunchy one. But Pitino brandishes a double-deck­er taco and the recruit can't resist, succumbing to Kentucky. 
Laurie Gannon, a spokes­woman for Taco Bell Corp., said the ad will promote the chain's new Sizzlin' Bacon menu of dou­ble-decker tacos. 
The 30-second commercial will begin its nationwide run Jan. 29. 
Though parts of the commer­cial were filmed at the Indiana Memorial Union, Assembly Hall and the IU Main Library, most of the shooting took place in the home of Kathryn Propst and Ed Furia. 
UNLIMITED 
• fENCING 

Fencers rely on youth in opener 
By WILLIAM BAUER 
Sports Writer 
A young fencing team will try to duplicate last year's impres­sive third place in the NCAA .championships and Midwest Collegiate championship. 
Both men's and women's squads might have to rely on a few freshmen if they want to equal the 1995 season and extend the women's 60 match win streak. 
· "This weekend's tournament is our first but we should be okay," said coach Yves Auriol who takes over coaching both men and women teams. "Overall we are a young team 
PRODUCTIONS 
presents 

SoUTH BEND REcoRD a CD COLLECTOR'S SHOW 
Sunday, January 21 
10:00 a.m. 5:00 p.m. 
At the Holiday Inn {University} 515 Dixieway N., US 31-33 North 
•  SELL  • TRADE  
COLLE CTIBLES  FROM  THE  
60's  •  70's  •  80's  •  90's  

LPs • CDs • 45s • 12" singles • imports • posters • • books • concert photos • videos • t -shirts • cassettes • ns • patches • and much more! 
and we might need a few meets to see where we are." 
The men's team strength is the sabre squad. Auriol is ex­pecting a lot from the team that returns senior All­American captain Bill Lester who came in second last year at the NCAA's and had a 55-7 record and must step up his play. 
Along with Lester is senior Chris McQuade and freshman Luke LaValle. LaValle won the under-17 Junior Olympics last year and has chance to make the Junior Olympic team. 
The women's team strength is the epee team that boasts se­nior captain Claudette de Bruin. de Bruin came in third at the NCAA's last year and won 95% of her matches. 
Junior Colleen Smerek. 89 wins, and sophomore Anne Hoos, 90 wins, complement their captain really well. Hoos owns Notre Dames single sea­son win record. 
Auriol, though, does have a few question marks on the other squads, mainly due to the younger fencers he will be forced to use. 
"We have great individuals but it depends if our older team members can perform." 
One of his concerns is the men's foil team. Senior All­American Jeremy Siek captains this squad that has little experience in play. 
Auriol feels that the duo of senior Paul Capobianco and sophomore John Tejada must step up for the team to excel in the 1996 season. 
Inexperience might not be a problem for the women's foil team even with the loss of Maria Panyi and her 105-2 record. 
Freshmen Sara Walsh and Myriah Brown will complement Notre Dame's all-time win­ningest women's fencer senior captain Mindi Kalogera . 
Walsh is in contention for the 
U.S. Olympic team and Brown won at the Junior Olympics last year. 
Young players is not all Auriol has to deal with in his first official year of coaching the men's team talking over for Michael DiCicco who was head coach since 1962. 
All-American sophomore Carl Jackson was sick and may miss at least a month which may hurt the epee team. 
The other members of the team have fenced before but not to a large extent. 
The most seasoned member is sophomore Brian Stone who posted a 57-19 record last year but others have not had that much action. 
"There are lot of questions this year with our injuries and the( new people coming in. It is hard to see how the season will go. We will be ready when we go to Boston, February 2, where we will face defending National Champion Penn State," responded Auriol to the teams short comings. 
This weekend the fencing team are in the Northwestern Open in Evanston. lllinios. 
Notre Dame will face tough competition in the way of Air Force, Long Beach State, Wayne State, Temple and Fairleigh Dickinson. 
Three of the opponents were placed in the top 25 last year. 

RETURNING FOR FALL SEMESTER 1996? A pre-registration deposit form and $100 (if required) MUST be mailed to: University ofNotre Dame l7ashiers ()J.?lce Notre Dame, IN 46556-5632 DEADLINE: January 24, 1996 Ifyou have not received a pre-registration deposit form and are a continuing undergraduate student, forms may be obtained from the Office ofStudent Accounts 102 Main Building.  

page 22 The Observer • SPORTS Friday, January 19, 1996 
• SMC BASKETRAU.

Mens 
continued from page 24 
Break, Chicago halt Belles' streak 
Notre Dame is also an improved team from its previ­By CAROLINE BLUM 20 times, and Chicago turned it was bigger and quicker, and there­ous meeting with the Scarlet Knights, something that Saint Mary's Sports Editor over 24 times. All in all it was a fore our offensive transitions suf­relates directly to having been through the Big East sloppy game." fered. We were slow defensivelywars a few times. 
When the Belles journeyed home Because th~ Belles receive no and therefore had difficulties set­"Our younger players have gotten a lot of Big East for Christmas break, they were at scholarship money, last Tuesday's ting up our offense quickly." 
experience that we didn't have the first time," 
their bests. Wednesday night, how­practice was the first workout the McGill led the team with elevenexplained MacLeod. "We're also a healthier team." 
ever, they received a startling team had seen since the last week points and four assists. She alsoPerhaps the greatest beneficiary of that experience wake-up call as they fell to the of classes. impressed the crowd when sheis freshman point guard Doug Gottlieb, who has University of Chicago 73-59. "The longer the break, the more tossed a few three-point goalsemerged as the team's floor general in recent weeks. 
Only a month earlier the Belles difficult it is to get into shape," through the net in the first half. 
Gottlieb played a season-high 37 minutes against the had celebrated their victories over junior Marianne Banko explained. Coach Wood will continue to workHoyas, and has dished out a team-high 70 assists so Concordia and Goshen College. "Chicago was our first game since on shooting with his players, butfar this season. 
They also remembered the battle the weekend before finals, while the also hopes to get the team in betterMore importantly, the rest of the team seems to 
they gave the nationally ranked game was Chicago's fourth since condition for their big match
have adjusted to Gottlieb's up-tempo style, which led Wheaton squad. A team they domi­the break." against Franklin on Saturday.
to easier looks at the basket against Georgetown than nated up until the last three min­Another factor affecting the "I want us to play more team-ori­the team was getting earlier in the year. 
utes of the game. Belles was the absence of the ented offensively and defensively,The progress that was evident against the Hoyas will Yet Wednesday, the Belles were team's leading scorer senior Jennie against Franklin," Wood said.
be equally necessary on Saturday, as the Irish are the faced with the realization that they Taubenheim, who was caught in the "Franklin has a tall center who is aonly Big East squad without a conference victory. If could not pick up where they left blizzard in the east and unable to pre-season All-American in Division Notre Dame is to avoid the last seed in the conference off. return in time for the game. III. We need to work together if we tournament, a win against the Scarlet Knights seems . "We looked like a team playing "We knew Chicago would be want to win." 
essential. 
our first game on Wednesday," tough," sophomore forward Julie 'fhe Belles will get their chance to"Every one of these games is a key game," said Head Coach Marvin Wood said. McGill said. "We had to reconstruct accomplish their coach's goals
MacLeod. "There's an urgency and importance 
"We shot only 37%, while Chicago our whole formation because Saturday at 2 p.m. in Angelaattached to conference games that reflects in the way shot 50%. We turned over the ball Jennie was snowed in. Franklin Athletic Facility. 
that all the conference teams battle." 
«m-a fifl ,...,. nmfr.n·~ i 
en
f:fm" t:n r.-rr ! 

.... The New Number on Cam
11 nmfr.n'~ : 
0
f:fm" f;tJ r.all 

•
Dnmfnn'~ 
1 

t Umtt f;n r.~&ff ~------• ~<(
-

Pomfr.o'~ : 
. f:ftnfl f:fJ f'Jdl 
I 

Pomfno'~ II 
f:fmQ f;n t'Jdf : 

Pomfno'!: 
. : ffmta f:tJ '"""'' 
:!:N 

• 
0~
• 
ca. ®~
fJomfno'~ ,..____ 
·r fimti f.fJ r.-ff 

fJnmfrtr'! 
1 
tl • f . t .i 

·--· 
!'tf t;r: ··~ 

r---------,r---------,
Large 1 Medium
1 1 1 1 
I Topping 1 1 2-Topping Pizza, 1 I • I ITwisty Bread, andI : Th1n Crust : : 2 Cans of Soda! : 
I I I I
: s5.75 :: s8.99 : 
I I I I 
Not valid with other offers. Not valid with other offers. 
..J L ..J
L 

------------------Pizza Cheesy Bread Twisty Bread 
Buffalo Wings 


--------------------~----~ 


MISTER BOFFO 

DILBERT 
:I 
0 

THANK5 TO MY (,) 
.SOFTWARE EMPIR,E, 
M.Y NET WEALTH 
I.S TWENTY BILLION DOLLARS. 
JOE MARTIN 

CONTRAR'r' TO POPULAR 
~ 
OPINION, IT 
DOE5 5EEM TO 
MA~E ME 
111\PP'(. 
~ 
0,.. 
z 
u 
.!: 
~ 
:;; 
"'. ~ 
.~ 
... 
, 
!
.. 
:I
..
..
.. 
£ 0 
~ 
SCOTT ADAMS 
1"\0NE.Y 
NO, BUT I Wf!..'S
CAN'T BU'r' 
ABLE TO
A SUN5£.T1 
LICENSE TliE
DOGBERT. 
DIGITA-L
) 
RIGHT5. 

53 Hardly erudite material 55 Evangeline's home 58 Make hospital-clean 
eo Movie dog 
81 Pirate's "last mile" 83Ciimax 84 Viking prince of Kiev 
85 Scale unit 
88 First name in whodunits 
87Capone's nemesis 
88 Helped, with "overII 
&&Prince-­
DOWN 
t Suds 2Jai-­3 Telephone, 
slangily 4 Pouring 11 Like some 

investigations 
13 Starting points 
8 French artist 
2t --NaNa
Duty 7 Land's 23 Wield components, In a 28 Roseanne, children's verse once a Genetic lab 27 Jungle fever supplies 21 "Oh, pshawl" 8 Canoodled 30 Poet Angelou 
to Sensible people 33 "--le roil"
do it (1792 cry) 
11 Hemingway's 35 "Three Weeks" Nick author Elinor 
12 "Les pecheurs 36 Sommer of "The de paries" Prize" composer 37 Stagger 38 Levi's "Christ Stopped at 
44 Put (down) 47 It's left holding 
the bag 48 "As--careI" 110 "Too Late the 
Phalarope" writer 

111 Eleve's place 52 Circled items 54 Tilting weapon 57 "--son salita" 
(Puccini aria) 58 Middleweight 
champ Tony 58 Fulda tributary &2 Elle's partner 
Get answers to any three clues by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420­5656 (75¢ each minute). 

page 23 YOUR HOROSCOPE JEANE DIXON 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY! IN THE NEXT YEAR OF YOUR LIFE: Be more discriminating in choosing your companions. Friends you make at Christmastime could open your eyes to a whole new world. Ration private and jointly owned resources. Stick to conventional business meth­ods. Money-making opportunities will abound next spring. May of '96 brings happy romance. Be true to your high ideals; avoid all forms of deception. Estranged siblings decide to bury the hatchet once and for all. 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: actress Laura San Gia­como, composer Aaron Copland, author William Steig, painter Claude Monet. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Rely on your first impressions regarding people and events. A legal obstacle can be overcome if you show perseverance. Romance with a younger partner could be terrific. 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): You enjoy a new feeling of freedom now. Follow your heart. You will soon be a position to obtain the things you want and need. Refuse to get entangled in other people's domestic squabbles. 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Avoid subjects that could ignite a hostile dialogue. Delve into a busi­ness, financial or real estate matter. Aiming for the stars is great if you do not trample on others' rights. 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): A secret assignment or business merg­er could bring new financial gains. Take steps to provide for your future by accumulating savings. Follow both intuitive promptings and friends' suggestions when seeking a solution to domestic worries . 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Go slow on expressing an opinion until cer­tain facts and figures have been veri­fied. The future holds wonderful surprises. Your chances for gaining public recognition, while boosting profit~. increase. 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Make the best possible use of your resourcefulness and creativity. It is much too soon to make a financial commitment. Seek additional data. You need to be selective when join­ing social clubs and making friends. 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Do not give in to a dissatisfied mood if duty keeps you pinned to your desk. Afternoon hours bring unexpected perks. Send out resumes if seeking a new job. 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): A confusing situation re4uires further investigation. Your work will be rewarded in tangible. ways. Sharing your privaie thoughts will help you build stronger rapport with mate or offspring. 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21 ): Excellent organizational skills arc your strongest asset. Take deci­sive action to advance progress. Others will follow your lead. Sitting on the fence is for the birds. 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): A good day to take direct action in career and business matters. Learn how silence can help you serve people who arc in need. Be a good listener. Something you hear turns a situation around. 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Get your relations with co-workers back on track. A family talk or pri­vate business discussion helps you launch a pet project. ESP or a period of reflection will guide you to a wise decision. 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Use common sense and good humor to neutralize conflicts. Investment proposals merit careful scrutiny. Postpone making a firm commit­ment. A candid chat helps banish secret worries. 

• OF lmREST Wrestling Club Practices will be held Tuesday . Wednesday, and Thursday from 7 p.m. until 8:30p.m . 
at the JACC Wrestling Room in preparation for the Ediilborough Open on Feb. 20. 
There is a MANDATORY meeting for all students who participated in the Urban Plunge over Christmas Break: Sun., January 21 beginning at 6:30 p.m. ­meet at the Hesburgh l..lbrary Auditorium. Students will then be taken to faculty homes for follow-up dis­cussions. You will be returned to campus by 10:00 p.m. 
Roller Skating with Flip Side: The group that provides something other than the usual social scene, will get the semester rolling with a trip to United Skates in Mishawaka for roller skating from 7:30p.m. to 11:00 p.m. Transportation will be provided from the Library Circle at 7:05 p.m. The cost is $4 for members and $5 for non-members. Skate rental is an additional $1.50. 
•MENU  
Notre Dame  
South Polish Sausage Sandwich Vegetable Calzone Oriental Vegetables  North Cheese Enchilada Tuna w/ Lemon Neapolitan Spaghetti  
Saint Mary's  
Chicken Fajitas Lasagna Blanco Whipped Potatoes  

Please Recycle 
The Observer 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 
1 Gulf sheikdom 11 Ship deck 10 City shortage in bad weather 14 "The Time 
Machine" race til Like an Ingenue 11 Garfield's foil, in 
the comics t7 Pick up, as Interest t1 Reached, In a way 11 English estate 
feature 20 Peals 22 Came down In 
buckets 24 Aloofness 211 Vegetates 
28 Site of Gen. Wainwright's stand 
28 Friesland Museum site 3t Bust-­(laugh hard) 32 Dotty 34 "Understood" 38Ballet­40 Like a whiz kid 4t Bridal veil material, often 
42 Mending process, Informally 
43 Without delay 411Weeone 48 False 48 Big name In 
little trains 110 Hawk 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
1-:":-tB'fl!tt~~~~~~m~]J
~ 
-:':+~+.~ ~:=+;=+-:~ 

on Sun.
_. 
Always $2 .,.........,...~­
SPORTS 
page 24 Friday, January 19, 1996 
Multiple weapons, suffocating defense too much for underdog Irish 
By TODD FITZPATRICK Sports Writer 

The Notre Dame women's basketball team stepped onto the Joyce Center basketball floor with visions of an upset. Connecticut, however, thwart­ed the high hopes of the Irish and emerged victori­ous. 
The Irish were greated by an attendance of 6501 energetic spectators, but the fan support was not enough to lift the Irish past the Huskies. Connecticut defeated Notre Dame 87-64 in a game that the Huskies never trailed. 
"I think the only thing I was happy with tonight was the crowd," commented Irish head coach Muffet McGraw. 
The Huskies' suffocating defense and arsenal of individual weapons was too much for the Irish to handle. 




Kara Wolters, Connecticut's 6'7" center, led all scorers with 28 points and an impressive 13 out of 18 from the field. Irish center Katryna Gaither tried valiantly to defend Wolters, but the four inch height differential proved to be too great. 
"She's probably one of the toughest players we have played against in the Big East," stated Gaither. 
"She will probably join the Olympic team based on that highlight film alone," added McGraw when asked to analyze Wolters' performance. 
Connecticut's defensive pressure frustrated co­captain Beth Morgan from the opening tip-off until the last buzzer.· The star guard hit only 5 of her 17 field goal attempts, incuding only 1 of her first 10. 
"Anywhere I went, someone was there. They got up in your face, and didn't give you any room," explained Morgan. 
"They had the best defensive team all year. We just didn't execute," said McGraw. 
Connecticut opened the game with a flurry of baskets to take an 11-2 lead. Although the Irish kept the point differential in single digits for most 
see LOSS I page 19 
Wolters, Connecticut win first round 
The Observer/Brent Tadsen Connecticut's 'hands in the face' defense held the Irish offense in check. 
By DYlAN BARMMER 
Sports Writer 
Beth Morgan sat at the table in the Joyce Center's media inter­view room, face flushed and eyes downcast. Her deflated spirits were in stark contrast to the jubi­lant condition of the two lep­rechauns which flanked her on either side of the wall. She sat, head slumped, underneath an "NO" banner, which on this fateful evening could very easily have stood for "Nightmare Defense." 
"It seemed like anywhere I 

went, someone was there," of­fered a punch-drunk Morgan, who was hounded by Huskies all night in an 87-64 loss to the third ranked women's basketball team in the nation. 
Morgan's highly uncharacter­istic 5-17 performance from the field was just one glaring statistic in a game in which the Irish never led, and never really threatened to do so. The reigning national champions of women's basketball simply walked into the Joyce Center last night and took the game out of the Irish's collective hands, crushing any hopes the Irish had fostered of remaining unbeaten in the Big East this sea­son. 
The Irish can console them­selves in the fact that the season is far from over. It is not often that they will face a player the likes of 6'7'' Kara Wolters, a red­wood among oak trees who scorched the overmatched Irish defense for 28 points on 13 of 18 shooting. In fact, they probably won't see such a player until they 
see IRISH I page 19 
•Haem 

leers begin final CCHA stretch 
By MIKE DAY Sports W rirer 
Time is precious .. 

As the Notre Dame hockey team heads for the home stretch of the CCHA schedule, they find themselves in a posi­tion where they can ill afford to waste any more time. 
Indeed, if the 5-13-3 Irish plan on making a final push in the conference standings, then now is not the time to dilly dally. 
"We've come to the realiza­tion that with just 13 league games left, we have to play our best hockey of the season," said Irish head coach Dave Poulin. 
"It's a matter of executing and playing consistently Friday and Saturday night." 
see HOCKEY I page 19 
• Ma'sBAII£TIALL 
MacLeod, Irish focused on key Rutgers rematch 
By TIM SEYMOUR present itself to 5-8 Notre Dame (0-6 
Associate Spons Editor Big East) than the visit of the Scarlet 
Knights to the Joyce Center on 
Rutgers senior forward Andrew Saturday at 2:00. 
Kolbasovsky has been on John The Irish played Rutgers tough the 
MacLeod's mind in recent days. last time, dropping ari 86-80 overtime 
Phoenix Suns forward Charles decision in December despite 20 
Barkley has not, according to the points from senior guard Ryan 
fifth-year Notre Dame head coach. Hoover. 
"I have no comment," stated Rutgers has been an improved team 
MacLeod when asked about the of late, however, almost upsetting 
vacant Suns coaching job, which Syracuse before succumbing 81-80. 
became available when Paul "If you score 80 points against 
Westphal was fired on Tuesday. Syracuse, that's lighting it up," said 
MacLeod coached the Suns from MacLeod. 
1973-87, and his name has been "They've improved since when 
mentioned as a possible successor to we've played them, but that's what 
interim coach Cotton Fitzsimmons conference play is all about. Just 
after the season. because you stumble early, that 
"My concern is with the Notre Dame doesn't mean that you have to stum­
basketball team," continued ble the rest of the way." 
MacLeod, who gave no other indica­MacLeod can only hope that those 
tion that his eyes have wandered words are prophetic for his own 
back toward the pro ranks recently. team, which can take some satisfac­
Specifically, MacLeod's concern has tion from taking No. 5 Georgetown to 
centered on guiding the Irish to their the limit earlier this week. 
first conference victory. 
No greater opportunity seems to see MENS/ page 22 

The Observer/Rob Finch 
Freshman point guard Doug Gottlieb will lead the Irish charge against the Scarlet Knights this weekend. 

Men's Basketball 
• Fencing opens at Northwestern .

.__ vs. Rutgers January 20, 2:00 p.m. 
Hockey 
see page 21 

vs. UIC January 19, 1996 
Women's Basketball 
vs. Georgetown January 21,2:00 p.m. 
• Belles lose heartbreaker to Chicago 

, SMC Sports
Fencing 
January 20 Swimming at Hinsdale see page 22 Northwestern Open January 19-21 
• Billiard legend Minnesota Fats died 
see page 21 






