
Friday, September 20, 1996 • Vol. XXX No. 20 TilE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Friday Feature 
As the races heat up ... 
GOP reps visit city 
By MAUREEN HURLEY 
~sociate News Editor 
SOUTH BEND 

On Tuesday, GOP representatives from across the state gathered at the South Bend Republican Headquarters to rally behind the man they confidently introduced as "the next govArnor of Indiana." 
Running on a campaign stressing "a lifetime commitment to conservative values," Steve Goldsmith, the current mayor of IndianapoUs and former prosecutor of Marion County, spoke to n crowd, including numerous Republican candidates for South Bend pollticnl seats, regarding the upcoming November election. 
As the election nears, Goldsmith stated that volunteers will be a major part of the outcome, as he characterized the race between him and 
see RALLY I page 6 

...so does the interest for SMC political science majors, who are taking part in this 
.year's campaigns 
By ANGELA CATALDO 
News Writer 
W 
en she started the project 
ast spring, Kelly Witka 
ever thought her idea to encourage fellow Saint Mary's stu­dents to get involved in local poli­tics would grow into the program it is today. 
Witka, a junior political science major at Saint Mary's, finds it diffi­cult to ignore the surge of political activity during an election year. 
"Last (school) year, before pri­maries, I realized that I wanted to 
NDFD Red 
The Observer/Mike Rums 


bright red beast, this fire engine belonging to the Notre 
Dame Fire Department contains over 50 gallons of foam 
nd more than 500 gallons of water. It's one of two engines 
owned by the department, and its price is as impressive as its 
capabilities. 
For more on this $190,000 machine, check out this week's Irish Focus on page 7. 

L \ 

' . 
' 

The Observer/Maureen Hu~ey Adrienne Sharp (above), SMC's College Republicans president, shows her support for Steve Goldsmith (above left) Tuesday. 
start getting involved (politically). I wanted to get a bipartisan group of political science students together to support local politicians. Unfortunately, it was the end of the year and people were too busy to dedicate a lot of time. So, another student and I went out on our own," Witka said. 
Her efforts were not in vain. At the beginning of this school year, Professor Patrick Pierce of the 
see POLITICS I page 4 


Sweatshop conditions exposed 
By DEREK BETCHER 
Assisrant News Edimr 
Sobering stories of exploitation, poverty, and abuse emerged from Charles Kernaghan's lecture "Children in Sweatshops," which addressed inhumane labor prac­tices overseas. Kernaghan used last night's lecture to champion the cause of holding U.S. retailers responsible for their overseas workers' wages and treatment. 
"When you bought your clothes before you came to school, did you think about where they came from, who made it, how much money they make, and what kind of conditions they have to live in?" Kernaghan asked his audi­ence. 
Kernaghan, the director of the National Labor Committee, pro­ceeded to recount his recent work exposing dehumanizing condi­tions in Central American textile factories. 
Among the many situations he detailed, Kernaghan told of a Wal-Mart apparel manufacturer in Honduras that hired twelve and thirteen year olds for subsis­tence wages. For 31 cents an hour, these child laborers spent 90 hours a week assembling clothes. They were molested, beaten, forbidden to talk, restrict­ed from using the bathroom, and occasionally fed amphetamines, according to Kernaghan. 
"It was a real eye-opener," the Loyola graduate said. "These young people have no tools to defend themselves with. They have no idea what they're mak­
see LABOR I page 4 


Grotto service honors vets 
By SASKIA SIDENFADEN 
News Writer 
Yesterday evening's prayer service commemorating Prisoners of War and those Missing in Action was not for the ROTC cadets and veterans who gathered at the Grotto. but for those soldiers who could not. 
ROTC Chaplain Father Patrick Neary opened the service with a prayer followed by two poems by Maj. Bruce Lovely and Cmdr. Jerry Coffee honoring the memory of soldiers fallen in action. 
"This [prayer service] is to remember those men and women who made sacri­fices, those who died, and those who are still missing in action," Chairman Cadet Col. Mike Chapple said. 
The prayer service and 24-hour vigil, at the Fieldhouse Mall, have been sponsored annually for over 20 years by the Notre Dame chapter of the Arnold Air Society. 
However, this was World War II veteran Roger Clarke's first service. Clarke (at right) attended the prayer to honor the memory of his fallen comrades. He was flying in a squadron of B-17s as an avia­tion engineer for the British Air Corps when he was shot down in June of 1943. 
"We lost 26 B-17s and I was taken as a prisoner of war. I was 23 at the time," the age when most of us are just graduating from college. 
Clarke was the more fortunate of his squadron; others were not as lucky. For those who did survive, a sense of duty still lingers -in the face of Clarke and the words of Lovely's poem: 


" ... please don't give up the fight and destroy what's left of me." 

Friday, September 20, 1996
page 2 The Observer • INSIDE 
• INsmE CotUMN 
I tniss Gracevision 
It is amazing that the University would spend over $10 million or more on a new dorm and not have . the common sense Bnan Blank to design it for the Assistant Graphics Editor 
purpose it was intended, a housing facility. 
Sure the building is up to fire code with doors that are forced shut by hydraulic cylinders, a ceiling that is covered in a fire retardant coating, and those 0-SO-Beautiful "prison motif' cinder block walls. 
The University solved its loft problem by providing "modular furniture" Now every bed can be lofted in every room, but there is no space for clothing in these tiny wardrobes, where my shirts hang to the bottom, and there is no way my new Pentium 166 with 17' screen will fit on the pathetically small end tables they call desks. · 
Had I known earlier I would have opted for that laptop for $500 more. Then I could use my desk for the much needed storage space. 
Another problem with the furniture is that the rooms were not designed around it or vise versa as customized lofts could be. The electrical outlets are set directly in the way of my drawers in the current configu­ration which optimizes our space. 
This configuration cannot even work in some rooms where the thermostats block the arrangement on one side and the sinks block it on the other. 
If fresh air is desired, there is plenty of flow through the new suicide windows. The only advantage I see is that with a common rope ladder they may serve as a great escape for night visitors when RA's come knocking. 
For now the only visitors we get are mos­quitoes and bees because there are no screens. 
What about rain? One of the Builders told me that when it rains, all the water runs straight down the side of the building through the wall and sometimes leaks through those windows. Great! 
One new thing is that we were never jealous of in Grace are the sinks in the room. They are not very mobile, and they take up useful space that could be used for necessities such as refrigerators or TV's 
Let's talk TV's There is no aerial antenna 
on this dorm. There is cable, but only in 
rector and assistant rector rooms. I get 
ONE channel and that one is fuzzy. I want 
to see Baywatch in full color again! 
Gracevision was better than this. 
Maybe I am being too hard on the University. They really did try to make the new dorms as communal as Grace was but the focus is moved out of the section and toward the whole dorm by providing a real chapel, more social space, and a modern laundry room. 
The problem really lies in the little 
things. I have Grace to compare it with. I 
was spoiled. Once the dorms are full of 
new freshmen and none left who remember 
Grace, they will not complain they will 
accept it as it is and only hear stories of 
how it used to be. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 

•  TODAY'S STAFF  
News  Viewpoint  
Michelle Krupa  Ethan Hayward  
David Freddoso  Production  
Sports  Jackie Moser  
Tim McConn  Michelle Krupa  
Graphics  Brad Prendergast  
Brian Blank  Lab Tech  
Accent  David Murphy  
Dan Cichalski  Photo Joe Stark  
Ashleigh Thompson  Jed Donahue  

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday excepr during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of rhe Associated Press. All reproducrion righrs are reserved. 
• WORlD AT A GLANCE 
Aircraft carrier, troops beef up U.S. presence in Iraq 
KUWAIT r:-----;;------;;-:-:;-:;:---:-----:----:-:-;----:;:-:;-:-liiiiiiiiiiiiiii;i~;;;;;~ 
Although rhetoric has softened and tension Iraqi and U.S. forces in the Gulf lfl!ll!l!ll Uti 
eased, the American military boosted its pres-As of Sept. 19 
ence in the Persian Gulf Thursday with more ground troops and some 75 warplanes to patrol Iraqi skies. 
Soon, more than 30,000 U.S. military per­sonnel and 200 American planes will be in the region, most aboard three dozen ships in the Gulf. 
Some 200 American soldiers landed Thursday at Kuwait International Airport, the vanguard of 3,500 soldiers sent by President Clinton to protect Kuwait. • 
The soldiers from Fort Hood, Texas, join 1,200 others who have been training for weeks in the Kuwaiti desert on 120 Abrams M1-A1 tanks and 60 Bradley fighting vehicles. 
The USS Enterprise also arrived in the Gulf carrying about 75 warplanes and 8,000 per­sonnel in its battle group, said Cmdr. T. McCreary, a U.S. Navy spokesman. It joins the carrier USS Carl Vinson, which has been involved in policing the "no-fly" zone in southern Iraq. 
Iraq has been radar tracking U.S. aircraft patrolling the northern and southern no-fly zones since last week, but has not fired on them. The zones were established at the end of the 1991 Gulf War to protect Kurds in the north 
After losing election, Peres retires 
TEL AVIV, Israel 

For almbst half a century, Shimon Peres has been a fixture in Israeli poli­tics, holding nearly every major gov­ernment job and, most recently, spear­heading a historic reconciliation with the Arabs. This week the 73-year-old Nobel Peace Prize laur.eate reluctantly lowered the curtain on his political career, bowing to pressure from col­


leagues and a bitter paradox that has vexed him for decades: for all his achievements, Peres could never win an election. In an interview with The Associated Press on Thursday, Peres was intermittently resigned and defiant, optimistic and glum. And it was clear the quest for Arab­Israeli peace drives him on. "For me the issue is peace," he said, settling into a leather chair in a book-lined office suite high above downtown Tel Aviv. "Whatever will serve the peace, and wherever I can serve the peace, I shall be there." On Wednesday, Peres ended four months of speculation following his stunning election defeat to Benjamin Netanyahu, announcing he would not run in a Labor Party leadership primary next year or in the next national election, scheduled for 2000. 
Serbs end secession struggle 
SARAJEVO, Bosnia-Herzegovina 

Serbs have abandoned the struggle to secede from Bosnia, the ultranationalist Serb who will be part of the country's three-member presidency announced Thursday. One of the most fervent fighters for an inde­pendent Bosnian Serb state, Momcilo Krajisnik told reporters that postwar realities meant giving up that vision for now. "Utopia has cost us both too much blood," he said of the Serb battle to break away from Bosnia, and the Muslim vision of keeping it whole. The country's 3 1/2-year war left 200,000 people dead or missing before ending last year with the Dayton peace agreement. "Our wish (to separate) will always stay," he said. "But if we are not realistic, we have no future." Krajisnik rejected any special status for Muslim President Alija Izetbegovic within the presidency. 

• NATiONAl WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forcast AccuWeather"' forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 
The AccuWeather®forecast for noon, Friday, Sept. 20. 
Lines separate high temperature zones for the day. 
............. COLD WARM STATIONARY 1C> 1996 AccuWea1her, 1nc. 
Pressure ~ ~ 
H L 6J &'SJ ITil 0 IZ3 8 ~ L.J. U 
HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY 
VIa Assoclaled Pr&5S 

S~~;e~; T-~~~~s ~~~~~~ ·~~~-~:· ~~-_ Sunny Pt~ ~~~udy .Cl~~~y
Rain 

Buffalo 73 50 Los Angeles 83 64 Philadelphia 80 56 
Via Associated Press Graph/csNet 

Chicago 69 57 Miami 90 77 Phoenix 98 72 

Iraq United States 
ARMED FORCES 
Active duty forces 382,000 30,000 Reserves 650,000 
Main battle tanks 2,700* 
Armored fighting vehicles 900 
Armored personnel carriers 2,000* 
Towed artillery 1,500* 
Self-propelled artillery 230 
Multiple rocket launchers 100 
Frigates 1 35 combat and Coastal patrol craft 7 support ships Mine counter measure 4 including two aircraft carriers 
Armed helicopters 120 Over200 
AI:~~~~ Air defense guns 5,500 Coalition* DEFENSE 
Bombers 6 aircraft 
Fighter ground attack 130 
Fighter 180 
and Shiite Muslims in the south. 
In Washington, CIA Director John Deutch said the fac­tion leader who forged a temporary alliance with Saddam Hussein to rout a rival Kurdish faction -sparking the latest troubles in Iraq-is now seeking U.S. protection. 
Clinton announces Mars exploration 
TACOMA, Wash. 
The first man on Mars will probably be an atmosphere­sniffing, chemistry-testing robot. "We're going to contin­ue to expand our knowledge of the universe. In December, we're going to launch a long-planned robotic mission to the surface of Mars," President Clinton said today during a campaign swing. "And believe it or not, if you've seen the movie, it lands on Independence Day 1997." Referring to this summer's hit movie, "Independence Day," the president added, "We thought we'd go visit them first and try to get around that blowing up the Capitol and the White House business." In announcing a new space policy today, Clinton is putting an end to a Bush administration dream of putting a human exploration team on Mars in the year 2019. That project, with a $500 billion-plus price tag, arrived still­born when President Bush proposed it on July 20, 1989. No money was ever appropriated. The new policy com­mits the National Aeronautics and Space Administration to using robots because they don't require elaborate machinery to produce livable air, food, water and to rid of waste. One robotic mission to Mars already is sched­uled for 1997 and one for 1998. Clinton's science adviser, Dr. John Gibbons, was to announce the revised policy today in Washington, the official said. 
Clinton stays tough in polls 
NEW YORK 
New state polls find President Clinton competitive with Republican challenger Bob Dole in several GOP strong­holds, including electoral vote-rich Texas, while Clinton holds a steady double-digit lead in two national surveys. Nationally, Clinton led 52-36-4 in a CNN-USA Today­Gallup tracking poll released Thursday. The results were a rolling average of nightly national surveys Monday, Tuesday and Wednesday among 710 likely voters (4-point error margin). And in a CBS News national poll of 1,202 registered voters Monday through Wednesday, Clinton led 56-34-5, statistically unchanged from early September. That survey's error margin was plus or minus 3 points. CBS found voters rejecting Dole's claims that Clinton has been running one of the most negative campaigns in history. 

Friday, September 20, 1996 
The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS page 3 

If~ 




you could, you 
More affordable than ever. 
With low student prices on Macintosh' computers, you can start doing whatever it is you want to do. And to make it even easier for you to purchase a Macintosh, apply for the Apple· Computer Loan. So you can take home a Mac; and you won't have to make a payment for 90 days~ How do you get started? Just visit your campus computer store today and pick up a Mac. 
Leave your mark. 
Missionary's life shows true faith 
By 1-1 EATH ER CROSS 
News Writer 
At noon Wednesday, hungry students crowded into the Saint Mary's dining hall to fill their stom­achs. But just a few yards away, other students, along with faculty and staff, gathered in LeMans Hall's Stapleton Lounge to nourish their spirits. 
Sister Elena Malits, Professor of Heligious Studies at the college, lectured on the life of a woman who· was in most respects average, but who lived an extraordinary life by discovering her faith. ller lecture was entitled "Jean Donovan: Discovering lloliness." 
Jean Donovan was born in 1953 to an Irish­American Catholic family. She went through undergraduate and graduate schools, and start­ed to live the American dream. But she left her financial and soda! success to become a mission­ary in El Salvador. ller life ended abruptly when. in 1980. after only three years with the mission, she was killed in the midst of a bloody dvil war. 
Donovan was a college student not unlike many wonwn of Saint Mary's -intelligent, indepen­dent, and adventurous. She was a practicing Catholie, but more or less just "went through the motions" of lwr religion. 
She was a typieal young student, who "wore t­shirts and blue jeans, used slang, and drank luwr," aeeording to Sister Malits. There was nothing about lwr manner that would have set hnr apart as a woman who was to spend her life lwlping otlwrs. 
".ltHLn's first words were 'do by self,"' said Sist«~r Malits. And throughout her young life she strove to embody those words as an independent woman. 
Slw worked to earn her master's degree in accounting from Case Western Heserve University in Cleveland, and soon landed a high­paying job at one of the country's top firms. 
Though her life was apparently full, her friends said that she "needed more." 
And that's when Donovan recalled her junior y«Htr of college, which she spent in Ireland, where she first talked to a Catholic missionary. 
Seeking an end to her city-life routine, she decided to go abroad. Her decision "was not a spiritual conviction; she was just looking for adventure" said Sister Malits. 
Adventure lured her to El Salvador, which was at that time in the midst of a civil war. Donovan spent three years helping the innocent civilian victims of the war. 
She cared for and protected the children who, she wrote, "saw their mothers raped, then hacked to pieces." 
Donovan visited Ireland and the United States a few times during those years, and though she knew she was putting her life in danger, she always went back to El Salvador to help the chil­dren. 
"I don't want to have to choose," she said, "between my life and theirs." 
Along with several nuns and priests, Donovan continued with the mission. Despite her good works, "she would never have thought of using the word 'holiness' in reference to herself," said Sister Malits. 
But Donovan, the average American Catholic, spent her life living what she felt was her calling. Tragically, her life was cut short by a group of political activists, who raped and brutally mur­dered this woman, who was a ray of hope through the dark clouds of war. She was only 
27. Jean Donovan was a victim, but her life was a triumph. 
"I see a lot of myself in Jean," said Megan Mahoney, a sophomore at Saint Mary's. "But I don't think I'd have the strength to live my faith in the capacity that she did." 
Donovan's experience shows how someone can realize the worthlessness of material items com­·pared to the value of human life. 
This lecture was the second of five in a series by the Center for Spirituality at Saint Mary's. 
Next Wednesday, Professor Elizabeth Newman will speak about another woman of faith. Her lecture is titled "Flannery O'Connor: Images of Holiness." The lecture will be held at 12:05 in Stapleton Loung~. Admission is free. 
SMC dancers display Trinity Irish tradition 
Two students participate in award winning dance troupe 
By LORI ALLEN Saint Mary's News Editor 
Chicago's Trinity Irish Dance Company kicks off the 1996-97 John M. Duggan Series at Saint Mary's College on Saturday at 8 p.m. in O'Laughlin Auditorium. 
Involved in the performance are two Saint Mary's College
students, Maureen Gill and
Joan Kowalski. Gill, a sophomore, has been dancing with the Trinity Irish Dance Company since she was four years old. "I started dancing with Mark Howard, the Artistic Director of the Trinity Irish Dance Company at four, and then competed until I was eigh­teen," said Gill. "I decided to stick with the Company after I 
stopped competing, which allowed for me to travel more." • 
Kowalski, a freshman, has been Irish dancing for the past eight years, but has only been with the Company for the past five. 
"This has been one of the best things I've ever done. We 
get to travel and experience
different audiences, like 

Royalty in Monacco. There really is no one word to describe the experience," said Kowalski. ''I'm so excited for my family and new friends to see me perform at my school." 
In drawing inspiration from ancient Celtic myths and sto­ries, the company's perfor­mances explore the develop­ment of Irish dance as a pre­cursor to tap, clog and square dancing, as well as the con­nection to African rhythms and dance styles. 
The dancers, who range in age from 15 to 28, offer tracti­tiona! Irish dance as part of their program, but put new twists on the tradition, in the form of progressive, athletic 
interpretations, and sleeker costumes. The current company was 
formed in 1990 as an offshoot of Howard's Trinity Dance Academy, which won 12 titles at the World Championship of Iris.h Dance in Dublin, Ireland. 
Among the company's high­lights was a specially choreo­graphed performance on one of Johnny Carson's final "Tonight Show" broadcasts. 
"The troop is really great, they are all nice girls. I am really excited to show people what Irish dancing is all about," Gill said. 
Tickets for the Trinity Irish Dancers are $16 for adults, $14 for senior citizens, $8 for members of the Saint Mary's 
and Notre Dame community,
and $5 for students. 
·rJjjer "'/"'"·'· Oclol~·r II, N96 No 1•(1"1/ll"//l o/mil're.<l or princif•li trill ht• ll'l(llired jill" 90 diiJCI". /nlet~s/1/cct·uiiiR dm?ilg lbts 90·tUII' {ll't"ti)(/iri/1 be 11dded /o !be princi/lltl . .will bear inleresl. trbicb tl'i/1 be indud"l in/be 11'/II(J"/111"111 scbttlule. Pot·t~l"ll/1/ft/e. !be 1111111/b of.II<IJ" /9% b11d an iu/m•.,·f mle of/2/';% trilb 1m.<nwwl l'<•rtwll'~~·· IIIII<' !AI'Iililj /.1.9JW, A11/IJIIIbil' /II(I"JI/<'11/ qf $32./I!Jjm·tbe l'oll"er Mac· 52{>(1 SJC\'/em i1· anesllmalt• b11sed 1111 11 /ollliiollntllnounltlj $1.91.1./i.l. wh1ciJ mdudes 11 sample purcb11se ;mce of $1.799 mula 6% inlmorwnlllwnJee. lnleres/IS mr111b/e iklsed o/1 !be l'rt/1/t' /late"·'· l"<'{Hn"/t>llllilbe 5tb /Jusm1•.« dill" o(lhe mouth 111 Tlwll"all Str.t•tJournal.{l//1.< a ·'fwewlo(i<J%..l/ou/b/1' /l<ll'llll'llftlllliAI'R .1111111"11 ti.«UIIII'S dtjinnenit!f"jwiuci{!lll 1111d does uo/ iudude ·'"/tile or /om/ ,,·ules la.r. TbeApple Computer /JI/111 b11s 1111 11:1~111" loan lermwtlb 110 {11"1'/ll(l"lll<'lllfwtutl(l' aud i.,· sul!iecl lo credit aftfltYII'til.•1/outb!r/IIIJ"IIIl'll/.< 1111,1 "'"' d•1••wili(~ on ac/util com{'uler Si'/1"111 prin•.l". totallt•m 1111111/llli.l". s/11/e 1111d /om/ stiles lares and 11 clumxe in/be monib(i· mri11ble interest ntl<•. ©1996 Apple l.hmpuln: Inc. .41/rf.ti!J/s resert'<tl. Apple. /be A/1{1/e loxo. Mac mu/,1/ticinltl<b are r<:~i,·ternil111lll"lll,,rks ofAftp/e Omtfl/1/t'~ Inc l'llll'l'r M11c !I' llintdcmllrk tlj'Af1'/c l.illlt{'llll'~ file A/1.1/tiOI/{!A<h W/1/f<ll/l'rS 1/1"1' tft>SIXII<'d Ill be acn•,"il!/e /11 im/il"idua/s ll"tib dilitbi/i/J•, n1 /etil"//111111"1' (f.:,\~ 1111(1'). Cii/18()/J.IJ()().l/1()/1 orT7}"81/0-75)-/i61i/. 
~ -~ ~·-----­
--------........ 
page 4 

The Observer· CAMPUS NEWS Friday, September 20, 1996 



Politics 
continued from page 1 

political science department 
approached Witka about try­
ing to revive the movement. 
In order to reach interested 
students, Witka went to the 
Political Science Club. 

For the semester's first 
meeting, she arranged to 
have representatives from 
both major political parties 
present to inform club mem­
bers of general inner work­
ings of politics. 

These representatives 
stressed the need in the polit­
ical world for volunteers, a 
need which is especially 
great during election years. 
*Representing the 
Democratic Party was Mark 
Meissner, Indiana State 
Senate candidate. 

Meissner did not push the students toward voting Democratic, but instead encouraged them to get involved with either political party. 
Joe Rachinsky, Deputy Campaign Manager for Joe Zakas, Republican candidate for the U. S. Senate, had a similar message, stating that party affiliation is not as important as political involve­ment. 
At the end of this first club meeting, representatives passed around sign-up sheets for volunteers. 
"I don't know the exact numbers, but there were at least thirty names on each sign-up sheet," Witka said. 
"I think it is so exciting that students are getting out and supporting the candidates within this community we are new a part of." 
Claire Halbritter, a sopho­more political science major, was recruited during that first club meeting and has since discovered numerous facets of the politcal machine. 
"I put my name on the 

Democratic sign-up sheet and 
a couple days later someone 
from Tim Roemer's office 
called me. Now I am working 
twice a week at the 
Democratic headquarters in 
South Bend." She has thus 
far worked phone polls and 
plans to make signs and pos­
sibly even help voters to reg­
ister. 
Halbritter is interested in 

law and hopes to become a 
government lawyer. She 
therefore sees her involve­
ment as beneficial to her 
future career. 
"I mostly want to learn, but 

I also need to become more 
closely affiliated with the 
Democratic party and get to 
know people" she said. "I 
used to not like politics, but 
now I realize that it stemmed 
from being naive." 
Both Witka and Halbritter 

feel that this student group is 
extremely important in elimi­
nating political ignorance. 
"I think it is very scary that individuals uneducated about this year's elections are vot­ing blindly by just choosing the name that sounds best, or not voting at all" Halbritter said. 
"If the students around here are smart enough to go to Saint Mary's and Notre Dame, then they should be smart enough to educate themselves about the candi­dates." 
Witka also feels strongly about education as well. So, when Kim Melvin from the Saint Mary's chapter of Circle K approached her to help with voter education and reg­istration at the South Bend Center for the Homeless, Witka agreed readily. 
As a result of their com­bined efforts, the Circle K club is holding a voter regis­tration party at the Center from 7 to 9 p.m. on Mon., 
Sept. 23. They hope to regis­year political climate led to the ter 75 to 125 citizens. 

Labor 

immediate passage of legislationThe Political Science Club 
that banned luring jobs abroad. will also organize a session continued from page 1 "There's a lot of hope here,"
for candidates to speak at Kernaghan said of this major suc­
the Center. This session is ing, where it goes, or what compar­cess, which encouraged him to 
important since Indiana is ative wages are." begin his first campaign against a 
only one of nine states that His investigations were generally corporate target, Gap. 
allows its homeless citizens to not welcomed by local managers, Kernaghan's National Labor 
vote. 
and so Kernaghan had to slowly Committee cris-crossed the nation 
"I feel that it is very impor­
collect facts to trace products from raising public awareness and lob­tant that we help educate and 
their Latin American producers to bying against Gap. As would often register these individuals 
their U.S. retailers. Kernaghan told happen to him when he targetedbecause voting is a right they 
of a worker covertly handing him a other companies, Kernaghan was shouldn't have taken away" 
tag identifying pants she had been approached by Gap executives who she said. 
assembling. One side of the tag cited their corporate code of con­As far as political involve­
ironically read "A portion of the duct, which promotes humane ment is concerned, Witka 
proceeds from the sale of this gar­treatment of all workers. But such reiterates that "it is not limit­
ment will go to children's chari­documents carry little weight in the ed to political science majors. 
ties," while the opposite side bore boardroom, Kernaghan said. Everyone should get 
Kathy Lee Gifford's likeness. "No worker's ever seen one of involved." 
This child labor revelation sent these. It's pure baloney. It's just She suggests that even 
headlines across the nation and public relations." though students are busy 
launched Kernaghan's allegations Eventually Gap agreed to allow they should take the time to 
of widespread injustices to promi­third-party investigators into their watch the news and read the 
nence. He seized the opportunity to Central American factories to mon­newspaper. 
crusade not only against retailers itor human-rights conditions. "Also, talk to friends" she 
like Gap, Limited, and JC Penney, Kernaghan felt the public outrage says. "Debating with friends 
but moreover against a business his group raised played a signifi­is a great way to voice ideas 
climate that he claims encourages cant role in that outcome. and form opinions." 
companies to use child labor. "Touring the country, we found Volunteering at a party's of 
Kernaghan showed the audience that the U.S. people are decent. headquarters is another way 
a trade magazine advertisement -They aren't interested in buying to get involved. "Even if you 
paid for by the U.S. government -goods made by exploiting kids and 
highlighting 35 cent an hour wages women."
only volunteer one hour a 
week, the candidates are so 
in Guatemala. The controversy, With that battle against working happy and appreciative. It's 
which aired on a 1992 episode of conditions over, Kernaghan is cur­definitely worth it," Witka 
60 Minutes, began when rently targeting Disney for its said. 
Kernaghan posed as an entrant in grossly inadequate overseas wages.
the textile business and created a Recently, Kernaghan visited aIn order to vote, partici­dummy corporation to expose gov­Haitian factory that producespants must register within 29 ernment policies on overseas relo­Disney garments. He claimed work­days of the elections. 
cation. What he discovered shocked ers were paid roughly nine centsAnyone .who has not regis­him. 
for each shirt they produced. The Democratic headquar­
tered has two weeks to do so. 
"They used taxpayer money to "I've never seen people so broken ters in South Bend can be 
lure jobs off of our soil," and poor," he said. "They (Disney) reached at 257-9589, and the 
Kernaghan asserted. are the premier company chasing Republican headquarters can 
Loans well below the prime rate, low wages, even worse than Nike." subsidies for labor training, travel At the conclusion of the lecturebe reached at 288-8683. 
expenses for executives seeking to Kernaghan distributed video tapesWitka believes that there is relocate, the creation of free-trade documenting the Hatian situation.
no excuse for not getting 
zones, and construction of plants He urged attendees to write theinvolved politically, even if within these zones were among the Disney corporation and request athe only action undertaken is perks that Kernaghan discovered change of course. 
voting. 
the Reagan and Bush administra­"We're challenging Disney. We"Even if you are going to tions regularly offered. even put their music into these
abstain, just vote" Witka 
His findings aired during the tapes, You know, 'hi-ho, hi-ho, it's
urges. "It is entirely too 1992 presidential election, and off to work we go,'" Kernaghan
important not to . " 
Kernaghan feels that the election announced. 

I I 

I I ®TOYOTA I I love what you do !~~ me I Owner Appreciation;Days

L-----------­

Visit your campus computer store for the best deals on a Mac. 
Notre Dame Computer Store Room 112 CCMB • 631-7477 Monday -Friday 9am -5pm 
•Both the 5400 and 190 include built in ethernet and 25 foot RJ-45 network cable 
PuwerPC"60J!/20 MHz!l6MB RAM PuwerPC"603el/20 MHz!/6MB RAM 1.2GB/4X CD-ROM/15"display 1.6GB/BXCD-ROM/15"display 
Free one-year Apple warranty. 
Just 4 Miles From Campus Go South on Eddy St., left on Jefferson to Cedar St. then left. 
Call For An Appointment 259.1981 ext. 623 
Mon. 7:30-8:00; Tues. -Fri. 7:30-5:30 

f1P exptm Oclober //, /996. CJ/996 A1fJ1e Computet; Inc. All r/gblr reserved. A/fie, /he A/Jiile logo, A[pii!Care, /.4.lritiler, Mac, MiJclnJo6b, Petforma, Power&x!k, Power Macinlosh andSlyleiiTiler are regislmJ lrademaris ofA/Jiile Computer; Inc. PowerPC Is a trademari oflnJemallonaJ Business MAcblnts CotportzJion, IISIItl wrder IJmue iiJm1roa 
.r----------~--~----~-------------------------------------------------------------------­
Regan: Nations should plan before intervention 
By GITA PULLAPILLY 
News Writ<r 
Should the United States have intervened in the Iraqi con­flict? According to Patrick Hegan, a visiting fellow of the Kroc Institute, the nation must weigh the costs and benefits before any intervention is to be undertaken. 
Hegan, a winner of numerous awards including the Carl Beck Award on International Studies, focused on interven­tion in conflicts as a policy choice in yesterday's lecture at the llesburgh Center. 
Hegan said that the success of an intervention is self-select­ed or biased because states only intervene when they expect to succeed with some ease. As an example, he cited the fact that essentially no one intervened in any military capacity in the former Yugoslavia before the recent violence began. Citing the rugged terrain of the land, the leaders of the West waited until it was too late and the conflict was already well out of hand. 
"There were a lot of diplo­matic interventions," he said, "but no troops or major sanc­tions to prevent the breakup. Then when it breaks up, you have the Bosnian conflict. During the Bosnian civil war, everyone jumps in ... European Union, NATO, etc. , they all jump in with some form of intervention." 
Hegan also claimed that the decision to intervene is often prejudiced by costs and bene­fits, and that "decision-makers choose alternative policies if they think they will fail." He stated that countries which share borders with states in conflict have an interest in intervention to prevent mass migrations of refugees onto their land. 
But on the other hand, humanitarian crises, such as the recent ethnic warfare in Rwanda, will often increase the chances of intervention. 
Hegan said that three condi­tions are necessary before intervention can occur. First, one needs a reasonable expec­tation of success, otherwise other alternatives will be used. Second, more than one nation must be involved, because uni­lateral interventions must be short term because of the expense involved. Third, there needs to be minimal domestic opposition. 
"With severe domestic oppo­sition, the intervention is unlikely. If there is a near zero chance of success (high costs and low benefits), inter­vention does not seem proba­ble," Hegan said. 
"The potential intervener would prefer to have the con­flict continue than have an intervention fail and still have a conflict." 
Began stated that leaders considering intervention should research similar eonflicts in recent history and find a prece­dent in deciding whether to intervene. Then, after deter­mining whether the present conflict can be settled in the near future without an inter­vention, they should finally consider whether or not to intervene. 
Did you know... f 
Autumn's first days 'Blowing in the Wind' 



Pueblo, Catholic pasts 'synchronize' 
By COLLEEN DOLAN 
News Writer 
The Pueblo Indians synchro­nization of original religious practices into the traditional Catholic practices has been a controversial issue for cen­turies, according to Professor Christopher Vecsey of Colgate University. 
On Thursday afternoon in the Hesburgh Library Lounge, Vecsey lectured on the Pueblos' spiritual and religious history, their unique approach to the Catholic religion today, as well as the Catholic Church's reac­tion to the Pueblos' approach to Catholicism. 
In the 16th century , the Spanish conquistadors had two 
That you could own acondominium or townhome just minutes from Notre Dame for as little as $379* per month? 
A wise investmentfor students, parents, alumni andfaculty. 
• 
Condominiums and townhomes as low as $56,000 

• 
Perfect for game weekends 


• 
Beautiful waterfront settings ~~'i!RO~ 


~r§)~c.
North Shore Club 

~ ~­
~ $ 
~~~ SH01.1.ti
Morkls Open Daily Sat. & Sun. 12-5 P.M. 

(219) 232-2002
Mon.-Fri. 10 AM.-6 P.M. 

(800) 404-4275 
reasons for invading the New World; gold and a vision of a new promised land, which included the conversion of the Native Americans, including the Pueblos, to the Catholic reli­gion. These Spaniards set up Franciscan missions in Southwest America to oversee their conversion. 
There were a number of Pueblo revolts, but the Pueblos were not completely opposed to Catholicism. Vecsey said. Eventually, instead of fighting the missions, they combined aspects of their original reli­gious culture in with the Catholic religion. 
This synchronization of the Pueblos' religion and Christianity has been difficult for the Church to swallow, according to Vecsey. 
As recently as 1965, mem­bers of the Church closely asso­ciated with the Pueblos attempted to oppress this syn­chronization of religions, claim­ing that their religious rituals were unacceptable to the Catholic Church. 
Today, however, the Pueblo Indians are recognized by the Papacy as being fully in com­munion with the Catholic Church. 
Professor Vecsey uses the term "synchrotism" to explain some of their practices. For example, a statue of a deer, symbolic to the Pueblos' origi­nal religion, watches over a Catholic Pueblo cemetery, and the Pueblos dress in headdress­es and costumes to dance in front of their church before entering to celebrate the Catholic mass. 
At the closing of the lecture, Vescey explained the Church's view of the Pueblos' religious worship. Apparently, the Pueblos' pagan reli~ious cele­brations are either Ignored by the Church or dismissed as "secular" or "cultural expres­sion" rather than as religious expressions. 
Vecsey pointed out, however, that unlike other cultural branches of Catholicism, such as Hispanic or Oriental tradi­tion, the Pueblos have incorpo­rated aspects of a different reli­gion, not merely a different cul­ture. 
Thus, Vecsey's exploration of the question "What kind of Catholics are these Pueblos?" was inconclusive; there is no simple answer to this idea of the synchronization of different religions. 

CHESAPFAKE 


BAGFI18AKERY.
l 


•
Fresh Baked Bagels 


•Homemade 
Soups & Salads 

•
Hot & Cold Deli Sandwiches 

• 
Gourmet Coffees 


• 
Cappuccino & Espresso 


5920 Grape Road, Mishawaka, IN 46545 Phone: 219-272-9415 • Fax: 219-272-7775 

MOVIETWISTE  
T H U R S D A Y 1 0: JOPM  
FRIDAY 8&10:30PM  
SATURDAY 8&10:30PM  


r-----------------------~ r----------------------,! Free lCappuccino! 
I Buy 1 deli sandwich I Specials :
I & get 1 of equal or I I 
I I I 
1 lesser value 1 
I I Short -$1.00
I . FREE. I 
1 Must be presented at time of 1 Tall-$1.50 I purchase. Not valid with other I 
With coupon only. Not valid 

l offers of promotions. One per I 
with Any Other Coupons. Limit

I customer. Valid only at Grape I
1 1 one coupon per customer. 
Road. EXPIRES 12131196 

L-----------------------~ L----------------------~ 
-----~----------~~-----------------. 
page 6 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS 
with a campaign and seeing how it's run behind the scenes," said Mike DeMent, a sophomore at Holy Cross, who works closely with the College Republicans and is involved with the Joe Zakas for U.S. Senate campaign. "This is the first election a lot of stu­dents can vote in, so it's so important that students exercise that right." 
Adrienne Sharp, the president for the College Republicans at Saint Mary's College, agreed. "Being at the rally and speaking with local and state Republican candidates really made me realize how important it for students to be aware of the issues in the local races, seeing how they affect our college campus," she said. 
Up until the November elections, the Saint Mary's College Republicans plans to work closely with the South Bend Republican Headquarters to bring voter issues both on campus and in the community. 

Guest gospel director to lead retreat 
on the side of supporting families." "To move forward in the future, we
Rally 

need to have Republican principles. That is why we will win in 1996,"
continued from page 1 

Goldsmith said, much to the approval 
as he characterized the race between him and Democratic Lt. Gov. Frank O'Bannon as one that "will be won by only a point or two." 
"We need to reach out to the voters, and let them know the true differ­ences between the two candidates," he said to supporters. "It seems like the Democrats running for state office are beginning to act and sound like Republicans." 
Referring back to conservative val­ues such as lower taxes and smaller government, Goldsmith, who has been known to criticize the taxing record of his opponent, said, "It's time to reduce the size of govern­ment, give more control to local com­munities, and put government back of College Republican groups from Saint Mary's College, Holy Cross College, Bethel College and Indiana University at South Bend that came out for the rally. 
Goldsmith addressed the impor­tance of students at local college cam­puses being involved in the election and staying informed of Indiana issues regardless of their homestate. 
"The issues that are discussed in this election will affect them, being students in Indiana," he said. 
Students throughout the colleges are working both in campaign offices and on their campuses to bring elec­tion issues to their peers. 
"For anyone interested in politics, it's such a great experience working 
Go 
Irish! 

Beat Texas! 

Special to The Observer 
The Voices of Faith Gospel Ensemble will host a retreat today and tomorrow on campus fea­turing Kevin Johnson, doctoral student of Musical arts and Choral Conducting at the University of Missouri, Kansas City. He will also direct the "Voices" choir at the African American Student Leadership Freshman Welcome tomorrow evening. 
Johnson will share the Gospel tradition with the "Voices" 
Association, and his recent pub­lications include the transcrip­tion of Handel's "Soulful Messiah," "Special Friends Gospel Songbook," and "We are One Voice Gospel Songbook." 





tlt:~\:~ CoMfDYSr~KTZ 
are welcome to join 

~(U(4e tJ{-~ 
Icons, Religious Items, Posters 111 E. Navarre St. (behind Kagel Flowershop) 
233-2523 
beginning tomorrow evening at 7:30 p.m. in the 
Keenan-Staniurd Chapel. Kevin Johnson is Campus Ministry's Chandra Johnson's brother. He is a member of the 

Friday, September 20, 1996 
Campus-wide Mass scheduled for Sunday 
Special to The Ohssryer 
For the first time since the 150th year cele­bration, the University will be having a campus wide mass in the J.A.C.C. at 4 p.m. on Sunday. It will be sponsored by Campus Ministry, the Office of the Provost, and Student Government. 
Guests will be seated according to department and major, giving students and faculty an opportunity to mingle in a non-academic set­ting. Immediately following the Mass, a picnic will be held for all. 
Many students have complained that the advising system is not as personal as it should be, and Student Body President Seth Miller agrees. 
"If Notre Dame really is a family, it makes sense that the students and professors should know each other on a more personal level, Miller said. 
Megan Murray, Student Body Vice President, sees the picnic as a great step toward better student/faculty relationships. 
"Being able to sit down and talk with faculty members and their families outside of the class­room relieves a lot of the academic pressure 
that usually separates students and their pro­
fessors," Murray said. Both dining halls will be closed for the evening, and mass and picnic attendance is strongly encouraged for all students. 
American Choral Directors r----------------------------------..., 

l?ritlny, Septetnher 20 
10:00 Jllll $4.00 Mtl\1\BERS .fa-qo!duue Ballwom $5.00 NON-MEMBERS 
brought to you by Jlip Side 


• 
Hip Huggers 

• 
Vintage Levi's 


• 
Mexican Bookbags 

• 
Urban Outfitters (retro 60's style) 



• Silver Rings • Hemp Jewelry 
r---~=-=c:=-==--·
We Buy 

10% OFF M~~~~~~:7
Used 

Sat: 10-6
Levi's 

with student ID 
closed Sun. 
THE 
smE 



CO., INC. 
Just 2.5 mi North of IN state line 
1912 S. 11th, Niles Belle Plaza 
687-9123 
..#?. ­

•-' -~·· VISA 

IRISH FOCUS page 7 


Fighting Fire at Notre Dame 
0 
ne minute, they might be on site when alarms blare throughout a dorm at 3 a.m., and the next, they could be spotted on campus scaling the Notre Dame Stadium Press Box. "We wear so many different hats here," John Antonucci, a 1978 Notre Dame graduate, said mod­
estly of the Notre Dame Fire Department. 

However, those "different hats" the Chief of Operations for the Notre Dame Fire Department spoke of help distinguish the department as one of the most unique in the nation. 
With a staff of 12 rounding out the Notre Dame Fire Department, the staff has undergone extensive training in the past two years. 
-
Reflecting on the the possible incidents that could occur on campus, Antonucci justified the exhaustive training by stating, "We wanted to be ready for any incident, if one would ever occur on campus." 
And prepared they are. 
According to Antonucci, the unit has received training in various types of rescue, including ice and open water rescue, high angle rescue and confined space rescue. Several mem­bers also are certified to serve on a dive team. 
Many of the training sessions were held on campus, and set 
• in real-life situations. Antonucci vividly described training for the high-angle rescue team, which entailed diving from the third floor of Sorin Hall with a single rope, and repelling otT the existing press box at Notre Dame Stadium. 
"It was a lot of intense training," he said. 
Antonucci, who has served as chief since 1994, stressed each member of the team must be trained in a variety of res­cue tactics, due to the small size of the department. 
Despite the small size, last year, the department made 985 runs, with 30 percent of them being emergency medical calls. Another 70 involved pulling students from stuck elevators. 
The department has come a long way since the Fire Station was built in 1945. And, as indicated by the intensive training the unit has undergone in the past two years, they continue to make leaps and bounds in progress, as they distinguish them­selves as one of just six universities in the nation to have a full-time, university-operated fire department. 
Ken Miller (above) pulls one of the fire department's two fire 
Photos by 

engines onto 
Mike

the apr!-:m in front of the Ruma ND Fire Station. Miller, who has been Story by a firefighter 
Maureen 

for 15 years, 
Hurley

is in his sixth year at Notre Dame. 



page8 The Observer • NEWS Friday, September 20, 1996 
House overrides Group violates E-mail guidelines 
By MATTHEW LOUGHRAN through the entire header, then computing activities of oth­Assistant News Editor get to the message and it isn't ers...Devleopment or use of
abortion ban veto anything that I want to read," unapproved mailing lists." 
~--~·········· 
: <CQ&A<!3cAQ{t'6J : 
• IRISH IMPORT SHOP • @R Edison Plaza • 
• 1643 Edison Road Next to Jamison Inn • 
···@··········



Ref/ect 
Remember 
Resolve 
POW and MIA 

Observance Day 
• 
Sept. 19 Prayer Service 5:00p.m.; Grotto 

• 
Sept. 19-20 24 Hour Vigil 5:30 p.m.-5:00 p.m. Field House Mall 

• 
Sept. 20 Retreat 5:00p.m. South Quad Flagpole 


join the Arnold Air Society and remember the men and women who sacrificed great/41 for our country. ~ will never forget their actions 
In violation of University com­one graduate student said. The ND Science Quarterly puting regulations, The ND The Office of Information could not be reached for com­Science Quarterly distributed Technologies (OIT) has estab­ment, but apparently did not an electronic mail message this lished guidelines for use of understand the guidelines and week containing a mailing list computing resources. has posted a formal apology for of several thousand recipients. The message from the Science the misuse. 
The 65 kilobite message was Quarterly violates part of the "If they had realized that they so large that it "crashed" com­"Impermissable Use" section of were in violation, we could puters of those who tried to document GOOl from the OIT 
have taken their privileges
download it and tied up phone entitled "Responsible Use of 
away," said Denise Moser,
lines of students checking their Information Technologies at Information Resource Center
mail. Notre Dame." 

Coordinator from the OIT.
The message itself was simply The document reads, "However, it was a misunder­
asking for submissions to the "Impermissible uses quarterly journal. include ... use of computer com­standing and they did follow up "It's ridiculous. We download munications facilities in ways with a apology, so we decided the thing for a long time, go that unnecessarily impede the to take no action." 

Pope answers liberal French critics 
Associated Press 

TOURS, France Visiting PopeHolding up through bone­
With Pope John Pau/1/'s visit days away, pollschilling rain and a full schedule, show most French Catholics approve of the Pope John Paul II lavished Pope, while some object to their faiths leader. praise Thursday on Catholics who stay true to papal authority 
Of 58 million
even in difficult times. 
French ...
On his first trip abroad since the Vatican announced last 

45 million week that he would have an are Catholic appendectomy, John Paul urged the people of this region to "stay faithful to the Church." Yes 

64 percent
The pope, speaking to about 

3,000 people, seemed to be rNo I 19 percent
answering those French Catholics who have criticized -No opinion the trip because of his conserva­17 percent
l
His schedule 

tive stance on issues including abortion and birth control. Thursday, Sept. 19 Earlier in Tours, French D The Pope arrives in Tours, President Jacques Chirac said f) later visits St. Laurent-sur-Sevre where a bomb targeting the pontiff
Catholicism "has left its mark 

was found in a church last month
on our behavior, our structures, our institutions." Friday, Sept. 20 
But to critics who contended EJ Sainte-Anne-D'Auray that government security and air bases used for the trip violat­Saturday, Sept. 21
El Spends the day in Tours

ed separation of church and state, Chirac insisted the French 
FRANCE
Sunday, Sept. 22
government "is secular ... 

(!) Honors the baptism of Clovis at 
respectful of the beliefs and con­the cathedral of Reims victions of all." 
ONE OF THE 
HOTTEST UP 
AND COMING BANDS OF MIDWEST! 

ByJIM ABRAMS 
Associated Press Writer 
WASHINGTON 

Scoring a big win for anti­abortion forces, the House voted Thursday to override President Clinton's veto of a bill that bans a form of late-term abortion. But the Senate seemed unlik~ly to follow suit. 
The apparent lack of suffi­cient support there makes it unlikely that the attempt to overturn the veto of the so­called partial-birth abortion bill will succeed. However, the House vote sent a message that the issue will not be ignored in the presidential campaign. 
Republican presidential nom­inee Bob Dole has campaigned actively on the issue. He said Thursday that as more Americans become aware of · the practice, "the president has been left almost alone, defend­ing the indefensible." 
When Clinton vetoed the bill in April, surrounded by five women who had undergone the procedure, he criticized the leg­islation by saying it "does not allow women to protect them­selves from serious threats to their health." 
The 285-137 vote was four more than the two-thirds need­ed for an override in the House. Seventy Democrats joined 215 Republicans to support revival of the bill, which would ban a procedure -generally per­formed in the third trimester ­in which the fetus is partly delivered through the birth canal before being killed. 
If enacted into law, the ban would mark the first time Congress has made illegal a specific abortion procedure since the Supreme Court ruled in 1973 that a woman has the right to an abortion. 
Supporters of the ban empha­sized with pictures and speech­es the gruesomeness of the pro­cedure. "How can anyone in this chamber or in the White House defend sticking a pair of scissors into a partially born baby's head so as to puncture the child's skull?" asked Rep. Chris Smith, R-N.J. 
But anti-abortion lawmakers also contended that the issue went well beyond such abor­tions, which are relatively rare. 
"Our moment in history is marked by a mortal conflict between a culture of death and a culture of life, and today, here and now, we must choose sides," said House Judiciary Committee Chairman Henry Hyde, R-Ill. 
"It's a frontal attempt on Roe vs. Wade, plain and simple," said Rep. Carolyn Maloney, D­N.Y., who supports abortion rights. 
The bill, if passed, would let doctors perform the procedure only if they can show it was the only way to save the mother's life. A doctor who performed the procedure illegally could face fines. and two years in prison. The bill also would let the father or maternal grand­parents file a eivil lawsuit against the doctor for monetary damages. 
Opponents of the measure argued that it would take away a lifesaving procedure used when the fetus is found to have serious abnormalities or the mother is in danger. 
"I didn't choose for my son to die," Vikki Stella of Naperville, Ill., told a news conference. "I wanted this baby. I chose to take him off life support which was my body. Congress has no right interfering in our lives and our tmgedies." She had the procedure two years ago after it was discovered that her fetus had no brain. 

~--~---~--~--~-~~-----­
Nerve gas may have hit Gulf War vets 
By SUSANNE SCHAFER Associated Press Writer 
WASIIINGTON 
The Pentagon is warning 5,000 Persian Gulf War veterans that they may have bnen exposed to nerve gas when U.S. troops destroyed an Iraqi weapons depot in 1991. A spokesman said the number could grow. 
The 5,000 figure is far higher than the number of soldinrs officials said they were trying to contact in June, when the Pentagon disclosed that U.S. troops may have been exposed to nerve gas in the destruction of the weapons depot at Khumisiyah in southern Iraq on March 4, 199 l. The depot, known as Bunker 73, eontained both conventional and chemical weapons, officials said. 
Offieials said in June that 300 to 400 members of the Army's 37th Engineer Battalion from Fort Bragg, N.C., were near the demolition. Earlier this month, investigators for a presidential advisory panel said they believed as many as 1,100 
U.S. troops were exposed in that incident. 
However. an announcement Thursday deseribed a second low-level exposure to chemical weapons, on March 10, 1991. Members of the 37th destroyed an unknown number of chemical rockets 


''...it's about tapping an ocean of creativity, passion and energy that, as 
far as we can see, has no bottom and no shores.'' 
Jack WeJch, Chairman and CEO 
found in stacks of crated munitions in a pit area about two miles from Bunker 73. Lawmakers expressed frustration over the Pentagon's handling of the matter. 
"From my view, this tells me the cover up continues," said Rep. Christopher Shays, R-Conn., chairman of the House Government Reform and Oversight sub­committee on human resources and inter­governmental relations. 
"We are continually getting bad news and it is not going to stop," complained Shays, upset no Pentagon official would appear before his panel to explain the growing number of potential exposures. 
He said he would insist Pentagon offi­cials testify in the future. 
"I think from beginning to end the Pentagon has done an abysmal job in han­dling this whole affair," said Rep. Bernard Sanders, a Vermont independent. 
"A lot of people are sick and people have the right to know the causes of the disease and have the right to know what has affected them." 
While the recent Pentagon disclosures tell of nerve gas exposures in southern · Iraq after the war, members of a Naval reserve battalion described what could have been a separate chemical attack in northern Iraq on Jan. 19, 1991, the third day of the Gulf War, the New York Times 
How would you describe GE's work environment? Open, inspiring, charged, fast-paced, non-bureaucratic, apolitical. We think you 'II agree these are partic­ularly appealing adjectives. 
We believe in being "boundary­less." We're taking down walls that divide people1 eliminating, hierar­chies and stripping out bur~au­cratic processes company-wide. And it's working. We are a 70 bil­lion dollar global enterprise whose extremely diverse range of businesses are number one or number two in their markets. Others look to us for manage­ment best practices and our finan­cial results have shareholders cheering. 
We'll be on campus this fall. Please check with the Placement Office for more details. 
We want to hear from Bachelor's and Master's degree candidates. Ifyou are bright, creative, passion­ate about your work and deter­
mined  to  make  things  
happen,  we  want  you  to  know  
we  find  these  to  be particularly  

appealing qualities. 
To find out more, visit us on the World Wide Web at: http://www.careermosaic.com/cm/ge 
• 
An Environment Without Boundaries 
An equal opportunity employer. 
reported in Friday's edition. 
Members of the 24th Naval Mobile Construction Battalion said something exploded in the air over their camps, and several people said chemical alarms began to sound as a dense cloud of gas floated around the area, the newspaper said. 
"I put my gas mask on right away, but by the time I got to the bunker, I couldn't breathe," former Navy petty officer Roy Butler, 53, told the Times. "Right after I got into the bunker, my lips started turn­ing numb and the numbness lasted for several days." Butler, a former Navy petty officer. said he now suffers from chronic fatigue, joint aches, memory loss and mys­terious gastrointestinal ailments and rash­es. 
About 150 members of the 24th battal­ion have come forward, the newspaper said, however the Pentagon said it found no unusual sign of illnesses during the incident. 
Some believe the unexplained illnesses may be linked to exposure to Iraqi chemi­cal weapons, but Pentagon spokesman Ken Bacon said there was no conclusive evidence of a link. 
Bacon said, however, that some of the soldiers who have been interviewed about the 1991 incidents have reported health 
problems. 
"We have not been able to find any unusual patterns in the people involved," Bacon said. "We're not saying there isn't, we're only saying we have found it." 
The Pentagon said letters would be sent to soldiers noti­fying them of possible expo­sure to chemical weapons. 



One 18" Pizza 

with 2 toppings 


~[p)®®fi~Il 


119 NORTH DIXIE WAY 

273-3890 
"STILL THE l\ E S T " 
Remember to 


share the warmth 
.. ····''ffl'c 

in the true 

Notre Dame spirit. 
Contact the Hammes Bookstore or the Center for Social Concerns for details. 
PROJECT WARMTH 


B R U N 0 'S 

Bomb part 
came from 

Florida 
ATLANTA 
The battery that was likely used to detonate the bomb at Centennial Olympic Park came from a south Florida hardware chain, Atlanta television station WXIA reported Thursday. 
The 12-volt battery, a type commonly used for lanterns, was in a shipment of 24 batter· ies delivered to the Sewell Hardware chain earlier this year, Worley Sewell told the television station. 
The battery was tracked to the West Palm Beach, Fla.· based chain by its lot number. 
Sewell said an FBI agent who visited the chain's headquarters Thursday told him the battery was used to detonate the bomb. It wasn't clear if the battery was stolen or sold to someone. 
The July 27 explosion killed a Georgia woman and injured 111 people. A Turkish news cameraman died running to the scene. 
Security guard Richard Jewell, who first spotted an unattended knapsack contain· ing the bomb and helped direct people away from it, was named as a suspect three days later. Jewell has denied· planti­ng the device, and no charges have been filed aga!nst him. 

-~-, 



VIEWPOINT 
page 10 Friday, September 20, 1996 
THE OBSERVER 
NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Norre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1996-97 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Elizabeth Foran Managing Editors Business Manager Patricia Carson Matt Casey Tom Roland 
News Editor ........................ Brad Prendergast Advertising Manager ............................ Ellen Ryan Viewpoint Editor ................... Ethan Hayward Ad Design Manager ............................... Jed Peters Sports Editor .....................Timothy Sherman Production Manager ....................... Tara Grieshop Accent Editor ........................... Joey Crawford Systems Manager ....................... Michael Brouille< 
Saint Mary's Editor ................. Caroline Blum ControUer .......................................... Tyler Weber Photo Editor ..........................Mic;hael Ruma 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the Universiry of Notre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administra­tion of either institmion. The news is reponed as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned edi­mrials represent the opinion of the majority of the Edimr-in-Chief, Managing Edimr, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Edimr, Phom Edimr, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Edimr. Commentaries, leners and Inside Columns present the views of the authors, and nO£ necessarily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's com­munity and to all readers. The free expression of varying opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Edimr-in-Chief Managing Editor/Viewpoint Sports News/Phom Accent/Saint Mary's Day Editor/Production G~neral Information 
Observer Phone Lines 

631-4542  Business Office  631-5313  
631-4541  Advertising  631-6900/8840  
631-4543  Systems/Marketing Dept.  631-8839  
631-5323  Office Manager  631-7471  
631-4540  Fax  631-6927  
631-5303  Viewpoint  E-Mail  Viewpoint.! @nd.edu  
631-7471  Ad E-Mail  observer@darwin.cc.nd.edu  


• OFTEN WRONG, BUT NEVER IN DOUBT 
The futile world of Pop-Ice public relations 
Candace and Jay live two doors down from me. They are six and seven years old, respectively. They combine to weigh eighty-five pounds-tops. Jay doesn't stop by too often, because he's busy rid­ing his bike up and down the street as fast as he can. I'm not sure what that does for him, but it must be important because he does it every day. Candace, however, is a show-off, always demand­ing an audience before riding her two-

Christopher Regan 

wheeler with no hands or no feet or both. When Candace and Jay are around, St. Louis feels like my own neighborhood-Westland Ave. 
Public relations for our estate on St. Louis boulevard are handled with the Pop-Ice method. We pass out the plastic tubes of frozen sugar water to keep our­selves in the good graces of Candace, Jay and all of their little friends. Needless to say, our house has phenom­enal popularity. 
Jay and Candace wander into the house from time to time and Jay will throw the ball at the six foot hoop in the corner of our living room with all his might. He records a basket every twen­tieth or so attempt. Every basket elicits the piercing shout of "TWO FOR ME!" It's a good thing he usually misses. Candace, on the other hand, will wander to unoccupied couch and tickle sleeping people, which makes her immensely popular. That's when you wonder if we ever should have fed them. 
Few things about my neighborhood are as endearing as Candace and Jay. Those two and the old man across the street from our house, that is. He is the 


• DOONESBURY 
Ntu/T, 11~ ron THAT fi4RK SPONSORSHIPS UJ(Jt.P ~ PR£7TYPRICEY FOR PRIVA~ INCJ()5TRY. 
fiJHAT'S TH£ UP­
$/P& FOR U$7 
\ 

slowest man in the universe; he'll take all afternoon just to walk from ·his fence gate to the front door. I don't know how old he is, but he's definitely past hurry­ing. He takes his walks two inches at a time. There must be an old gaffer like him in every neighborhood in America. The one in my old neighborhood died when I was only eight, but I remember him far more clearly than last weekend. 
Unfortunately. the estate at St. Louis is not my old neighborhood. I never looked over my shoulder once on Westland Avenue unless it was for water-balloon or snowball-toting friends. Late night games of capture the flag were the rule on my street, but we never see Jay or Candace or their friends on their bikes after dark. 
The deep suspicion with which every­one regards everyone else on our street is ubiquitous. When you pass a stranger on our sidewalks you don't want to say the wrong thing, so you usually don't say anything. The feeling that we don't belong there is clearly drawn on the faces of the older kids. They're almost our age, but they don't stop by or say "hi" or anything else. They stare and they dare you to stare back. There's nothing neighborly about it. 
We will never get to know them the way we know Candace and Jay and they will never know us as Candace and Jay do. It's too late for both sides. We have been classified by them and they by us. To them, we are the enemy-or at least deeply distrusted. We lock our doors and set our alarms-against our own neighbors. What they think of us I couldn't say, but this much is certain: we are all the same to them. We are the same as our friends up the street and the people who had these houses last year. 
All this is familiar in America. What 
makes it interesting is that it has come 
to make so much sense. I expect to be 
written off by my neighbors as at best a 
fool and at worst a racist. No doubt they 
expected me to suspect them when a student house was fire bombed or a roommate was mugged. Is that normal? It's definitely average. 
Historian Arthur Schlesinger called racism America's original sin. We have suffered as a nation for that sin every day of our history. Today, thirty years after the Civil Rights movement and 130 years after the Civil War, racism is underground, but it is more deeply ingrained. The signs of racism, discrimi­nation and bigotry have been fought, but the idea of racism goes unchallenged. With such good intentions and strong resolution, one wonders how we failed so badly.· 
A New York Times Editorial recently claimed that New York City schools were fundamentally flawed because there were too many white teachers in a largely black school system and hence, not enough "role models" for black stu­dents. The implications we subtle, but clear enough: black students cannot look up to white teachers. The converse is seldom maintained; sound it out and you'll see why. 
Schlesinger wrote about a UC Berkeley policy which required courses to be taught by professors matching the eth­nicity and gender identity of the subject to be taught. "The doctrine that only 
GARRY TRUDEAU 
SAY YOU'!?£ &XXOIV, ANP YtV 1-141/E A MASSIV6Oft 911-L UP ON TH£" TUN~ -«JJATSTANP5 
/JfAWtE/11 YOU AN£>A P.R. N/(7/fTMAR£? 
""' 
blacks can teach black history leads inexorably to the doctrine that blacks can teach and write only black histo­ry..." 
The same line of thinking is evident in the political arena, where people argue that congressional districts should be manipulated representatives for racial minorities. The implication? That a white person cannot represent the inter­ests of people who are not white.· We have nothing in common. They are all the same and will never be like us. We are all the same and will never be like them. 
Few truths could be more bitter than to discover that you have become what you hate. Nevertheless. today those who claim to fight against racism are often fighting for it. Candace and Jay are too young to be racists. You couldn't tell them it wasn't okay to play at our house. Maybe this is what T.S. Eliot meant when he wrote that among the "gifts reserved for age" was "the memory of things ill-done and done to others harm, which once we took for exercise of virtue." 
Christopher Regan is a senior Arts and Letters major. 
• OuorE oF THE DAY 
"}should not talk so much 
about myself if there were anybody else whom I knew so well." 
-Henry David Thoreau 


VIEWPOINT
Friday, September 20, 1996 page 11 
• lmERS TO THE EDITOR 
Notre Dame is yours, but the world is mine 
Dear Editor: dents drove up behind us and guess the fact that we were student is; maybe a suspect, My friends always give me 
They tell us that those who started yelling at us to hurty Black was more important but not a student. flack about going to this lily· attend Notre Dame are part of up and get out of the way. We than the fact that we were When we finally returned to white school, and I actually a family; they tell us that we were trying our best, but since women stranded at night. the dorm, we talked about used to defend Notre Dame. all belong here despite our dif· they were drunk it did not Once we got the car into D·2. what had happened with some Despite all of the things that l'et·ences, and after two years matter to them. The first vehi·· we ?ealized that we· needed a of our other friends, and I was my friends and I have been of struggling t find truth in de drove around us. but the so very angry. But, it wasn't through because we are Black, these statements-( was finally second continued to harass us. -----------··until I called my mom the next I still defended this school. 
starting to believe that despite Then, It happened. One of morning that I realized how Well, they say that it Is
'Ithurts that an igno~
the racism here, I actually them stuck his head out of the mtich that. word-nigger-had through pain and struggle that belonged at Notre Dame window and yelled. "Get out of' rant white athlete, hurt me. As I told her what we gain wisdom, so Black peo­because I am a hard WOI'king the way, you g-damn nig· had happened, I just broke ple must be the wisest people
who probably can
student like everyone else. gers! '' l felt as if my heart down and cried, and it sur· on earth. Which is why I tell Well, on Saturday, September stopped beating as they sped hardly read and most prised me. Those that know you this: This nigger is going 
7. I was coldly thrust back into off laughing. likely was so drunk me know that I do not cry over to get her degree from Notre reality-1 am Black, therefore, I guess I have been lucky, anything, but suddenly I just Dame and use it against those
that he can't remember 
Notre Dame Is not my family. because despite all of the realized how deeply Saturday very people that seek to Saturday started out as a things that white people have what he did, hurt me so ni.ght had hurt me. oppress my people. No one has good day. My roommate Tiana done to me, it took twenty Some of you may say, nigger the right to make someone feel
deeply.'
and I went to the mall. then we years before one called me a is just a word. and to you it like l felt that night, but white eame homo and slept the day nigger. That is, twenty years may be ... But to me It signifies racists only make me more away. Around eight that night and me being at the University centuries of brutality, oppres· determined. White people can· we went over our friend of Notre Dame. But that is not sion, and dehumanization of not hold a strong Black person Demonn's to watch the Mike the end of it. As we were push· jump so that we could get my people. The use of it today down lf they are smart. We Tyson fight. We kicked it over ing, Notre Dame Security vehi· Tia,na's power windows up and shows that things have not just have to be cautious in this there for a while then we cles drove right past us with· lock her doors. So we went to changed that much. Being white wilderness called Notre decided to go get something to out offering us any assistance. the security gate and asked Black at Notre Dame is an Dame and give up the illusion eat. We picked up my friend Finally, after a long line of them ·to send someone to give everyday struggle, but I had that we belong to this family. Kelvin and went to Burger traffic had begun to form us a jump. The officer they convinced myself that it would Incidents like this can easily King and everything was behind us, they came back and sent was unnecessarily rude to be worth it. But Saturday I was make one hate white people, cool-it had been a good night. of'fered us help. Then, when us, and everything we said was forced to see that no matter but they are not worth the At Burger King, Tiana's bat· we told them that we were just rewarded ·with a smart .what I accomplish, or how effort that hating them takes. tery light came on and her going to push the car into D-2, remark. And I must wonder, many degrees I achieve, to J do not need to "fit in" here as lights started growing dim so they asked with surprise, "Oh, why is it that he, too, did not · many whites I am always long as l get my degree. Wll decided we had better try you're Notre Dam.e students?" think that we were Notre going to be just a nigger. I In closing, if the white boy to make it back to campus. We Of course, being Black, why Dame students? Tiana has know that It should not bother who called my friends and me almost made it. At the last stop would they think that we "Domer 97" on her license me, but it does. It hurts that niggers is reading this. I would sign before D-2 on Bulla, her attended Notre Dame? All the plates and a Notre Dame park· an ignorant white athlete. who like to thank you for reminding car cut off and would not way from that stop sign to D-2, ing decal in her window, yet probably can hardly read and me that Notre Dame Is yours, restart. Our only choice was to not one of' the many cars full of both of the Notre Dame Police most likely was so drunk that but with me being a strong put the hazards on and push friendly Irish students that officers who were sent to he can't remember what he Black woman, the world is the car. So we all got out of' the passed us asked us if we need· "help" us were surprised to did, hurt me so deeply and mine. car and started to push. That's ed any help or needed them to find that we were students. I make my two hard years here when two vehicles full of call someone to assist us even guess we did not fit their seem as if they were not worth NIKOLE HANNAH white, athletic-looking stu· though we were two women. I notions of what a Notre Dame anything, Siegfried Hall 
• RIGHT OR WRONG? 

Selective reduction ignores personal dignity 
I apologize for writing about the Brits twice in a row. Our last column recount­ed the destruction of 3,300 frozen embryos in England last month. But two other prenatal dramas. which ran con­currently in the British tabloids with the mnbryo affair, should prompt us to ask wlwtlwr our concern for the disabled is a sham. First, Mandy Allwood, 31, took f1~rtility drugs and became pregnant by 
Charles Rice 

her 37-year-old boyfriend. Miss Allwood had already had one child and an abor­tion. Both she and her boyfriend are on welfare and, strangely, she was given free fertility drugs by the National Health Service. The drugs caused Miss Allwood to eonceive eight children-at once. Dr. Kypros Nicolaides, her obste­trician, who had not prescribed the fer­tility drugs, offered to abort all but two of the 13-wenk-old fetuses, to prevent the "high chance that all the babies will die, or if they survive there is a high chance that they will all be handi­eappml." 
Miss Allwood refused to abort. Instead, she agreed that Britain's largest tabloid, News of the World, would pay lwr at least $530,000 for attempting to givn birth to all the octuplets. The size of llw paymnnt would depend on "how many bahins were born." Miss Allwood's publicist, who also handled O.J. Simpson's trip to Oxford, said his client could make $1.5 million this year.Now let's look at the other case. On August 6th. the Society for the Protection of Unborn Children (SPUC) got a court 1irdcr against Queen Charlotte's Hospital forbidding an abortion on one twin child of a 28 year-old unidentified unmarried woman. The ease drew notice because both twins were healthy and the woman sought the abortion because of money problems.Dr. Vivienne Nathanson, of the British Medical Association, said it was the first case she had seen of abortion of a healthy, naturally conceived twin. "I don't think there's really any diff'er­ence," she said, "between performing an abortion to leave no fetus and reducing a twin to a singleton. " Phyllis Bowman, director of SPUC, said, "one baby is being killed. It will be left in the womb, its brother or sister growing beside it. . .the whole prospect. . .is horrifying. " 
Anti-abortion activists pledged to pay the mother $77,000 if she would allow both children to live. But the case became moot when the hospital announced that the woman had already aborted the twin a month before the furor arose. These cases are instructive in light of the reality of the "selective reduction" at stake in each case. "We probably are doing an average of one to two a week, " said Dr. Norman Ginsberg of Chicago's Illinois Masonic Medical Center. "If one believes in prochoice, " he said, "then this is just another aspect of that. The number of multiple preg­nancies has increased as a result of fer­tility drugs and in vitro fertilization. "(S]elective reduction to a smaller num­ber of fetuses [can] increase [the] chances of delivering infants mature enough to survive without being irre­versibly damaged by the sequelae of' marked prematurity. " Berkowitz, et al, Selective Reduction· . ... 318 New Eng. J. Med. 1043 44 (1988).The seminal article on the subject described what happens: "Under direct ultrasonic visualization, .. .a 20-gauge needle was introduced into the thorax of one of the upper-most fetuses. Whenever possible, the needle tip was placed directly into the fetal heart. Two of seven mmol of potassium chloride was then injected ... If cardiac activity persisted, five to ten ml of sterile saline was injected next to the heart in an attempt to disrupt cardiac function by extrinsic pressure." Ibid. The dead child is absorbed by the mother's body. The authors advise against delaying 

beyond the 12th week because delay may increase the psychological difficulty of making the decision: "Candidates ... undergo multiple ultrasound examina­tions that provide visual contact with their fetuses; this can evoke the type of emotional bonding that normally begins to develop after birth." Ibid. 
When the physician describes how the "20-gauge needle" by-passes one child to seek the heart of his brother or sister. it is time to admit that "selective reduc­tion" is the execution of an innocent vic­tim. 
The basic principle, as enunciated by John Paul II, is that "the direct and vol­untary killing of an innocent human being is always gravely immoral." Evangelium Vitae, no. 57. If we allow such killing in any case, the primary tar­gets will quickly become those who are defective or otherwise burdensome to the killers. The British outcry arose because the mother chose to abort one of two healthy twins. But, as one physi­cian noted, if she "chose to abort both twins, no one would have noticed." Nor would there have been an outcry if she had killed a defective twin. And that is the key to both of these cases. Why was Mandy Allwood pressured to kill six of her eight children? Was it not mainly the fear, as Dr. Nicolaides put it. that if all eight were born, "there is a high chanee that they will all be handi­capped"? 
In justice, all human beings are enti­tled to be treated as persons. We have replaced that principle with a functional definition of personhood. You will be treated as a person with respect to the right to live, only if you ean perform and are not a burden on others. We build ramps for the disabled. But the secular, relativist, individualist "culture of death" exhibits an intolerance of defect that has already extended beyond the unborn. 
The 3,300 British frozen embryos were killed because they were unwanted and useless. The selectively reduced twin would have had few defenders if he had been disabled. And Mandy Allwood was urged to kill six of her children pri­marily to avoid burdening society with more disabled children. 
In Evangelium Vitae, John Paul said that in the "materialistic perspective ... [t]he criterion of personal dignity ­which demands respect, generosity and service -is replaced by the criterion of efficiency. functionality and usefulness: others are considered not for what they 'are,' but for what they 'have, do, and produce.' This is the supremacy of the strong over the weak." Nos. 22-23. 
The next time you see a ramp for the disabled, check your warm fuzzies and ask yourself whether American culture is concerned for all the weak and dis­abled or only for those who can vote. And ask yourself' what you are doing about it. 
Professor Rice is on the Law School Faculty. His column appears every other Monday. 





ACCENT
page 12 Friday, September 20, 1996 
Notre Dame and Saint Mary's celebr~ 


B
By MARIA PEDRAZA New grocery stores include La Santa and help them Accent Writer Rosa, Tienda Abarrotes, La Consentida, to succeed in and Super Mercado Rosales. There is the larger soci­ecause of the increase in current also Los Tres Hermanos video store and ety. · Thus, La migration of Hispanics to the La Casa Musical, where Latin music is Casa also aims country from abroad and reloca­sold. to bridge the tion other parts of the United States, the For entertainment, there have always Hispanic popu­Hispanic population in South Bend is been dances at Lucia's Place and now lation with soci­presently growing very rapidly by the Elva's Fiesta club. Another Hispanic ety at large, year. In 1980, there were approxi­nightclub which has just opened is strengthening mately 2,689 Hispanics living in South Rafael's in Elkhart. all of Michiana. Bend. In 1990, it had grown to 5,201. La Panaderia Central, a bakery, is Voluntarily Presently, the population is growing at very new and has become extremely supported by a rate 17 times faster than that of the popular. There are also various many volun­greater South Bend community. authentic restaurants such as Mi teers from 
It is estimated that there are about Cocinita, La Taqueria Rosales, La Es­Notre Dame 8,000 Hispanics living in St. Joseph peranza , and Chico's Place. Except for and Saint county now. The majority of the La Esperanza, all of these businesses Mary's, La Casa Hispanic population traces its cultural are located on the west side of South is dependent roots to Mexico. Compared to other Bend where the majority of the UJlon and races, the Hispanic population of the Hispanic population lives. thankful for country is very young. The average age The establishment of these Hispanic students who is 21 compared to 33 Caucasians. businesses reflects the increase of His­have offered 
There is a clear tendency of upward panics coming into the area. their time and social mobility of younger Hispanics as La Casa de Amistad, a community skills to helping compared to their parents in terms of center also located on the west side, strengthen the educational attainment, as well as a has also tried to keep up with the Hispanic popu­general tendency toward multiple increase in population by expanding lation here in income earning families, employment and modifying its programs in order to South Bend. stability, and little time lost for illness, address any new or changing needs While stu­injury or lay off. incoming Hispanics may have. dents and other 
With the rise of the Hispanic popula­La Casa was established in 1973 by me:Jmbers of the tion in South Bend, there has been a Fr. John Phalen, C.S.C. in response to C<lmmunity considerable increase in Hispanic busi­the needs of Hispanic youth. Presently, help in con­nesses and other service providers La Casa has expanded to serve adults, tr.buting to the around the area. migrants, and seasonal workers as well. Hispanic popu­
For decades, South Bend has had La Today, La Cas a offers three types of Mexicana as the only local Mexican gro­assistance: youth programs, commu­
~· eh. n d d. Detail from a mural that hangs inside of the Multicultual Student
cery store which sufficiently met local nity services, and emergency services. 
lC 1ana, an Affairs Office in LaFortune 
needs. Within the past four to five Through their various programs, La La Casa and its years, though, various stores and busi­Casa's mission is to strengthen programs, the nesses have established themselves Michiana's Hispanic community and its Hispanic population has much to offer but to the community as a whole, 
becoming priceless experiences for
around the area and are doing very youth. in return. Its rich culture and customs well. Their goal is to empower individuals are valuable not only to the volunteer · everyone. 
La historia de La Alianza 
O
BY LETICIA MCDONALD cult to consolidate forces to Members submitted names to other than the president, vice-eight separate commissioners. Accent Writer organize group projects. Such the officers, and the names president, secretary, and trea-Currently, the commissioners was the case with Latin were then voted on until the surer. hold posts relating to politics, ne hundred fifty mem­Expressions and LULAC; last top three were kept. These "The advantage of having education, social functions, bers strong and growing, year LULAC put on of the three names were voted on commissioners is to give a spe­cultural awareness, publicLa Alianza is now not biggest fund raisers of the again until "La Alianza" was cific responsibility to each offi­relations, communications,only the primary Hispanic­year, the Latin Expressions tal­chosen. Spanish for "the cer, which brings about more freshman relations, and com­
American organization on ent show, by themselves. alliance," the new name efficiency," said Tony Duarte, munity services. 
campus, it is the result of years "The breadth of what they reflects the alltance of the Political Commissioner of Now, "all the Latinos can be 
of hard work by three separate are trying to do is larger than three previous gr<mps. Alianza. united as one on campus," said 
organizations. before," said last year's LULAC When Alianza formed, they When the group organized, Christina Ortecho, Com­
Composed of members of the vice president Danny Robledo combined the four head offi­the officers decided that there munications Commissioner of 
Notre Dame and Saint Mary's about having only one group. cers from LULAC, the NHI and were eight basic needs to Alianza. Through the hard 
communities, the three prima­According to Robledo and HAO into four executive offi­attend to. The goal was to work of many dedicated people 
ry groups that have con­other Alianza leaders, with one cers and eight commissioners, devote as much attention to La Alianza has been formed to 
tributed to La Alianza's suc­group it is easier to get people hoping to evenly distribute the each of these as possible, join the Latinos into one fami­
cess are the now-defunct involved and active in the responsibility among people resulting in the formation of ly.
League of United Latin organization and to enlist II
American Citizens, the His­student volunteers. 
panic American Organization, The road to choosing 
and the National Hispanic In­the name La Alianza 


Hi span
stitute. was a long and labo-Since each group had its own rious one. attendance requirements and 
ByBERNADETTEPAMPUCH celebration.
separate meetings, many stu­

Accent Writer According t,
dents were responsible for 

Sept. 21 Bureau, the nattending three different sets 
B
eginning in 1968 with a in the U.S. is e
of activities. At the end of the Pachanga Party 
presidential proclamation, million by the
1995/96 school year, officers 

9 p.m. at the Stepan Center one week every year has will account f
and members of the 

been set aside to recognize the so-total populat
three groups con­Sept. 26 
cial, cultural, economic, and people. Th
vened and decided 

Teatro Callejero Chicag() St. Theatre 
academic contributions of a minority grothat it would be bet­8 p.m. Place TBA variety of Hispanic groups in are found inter if all three groups the United States. union but are
joined together to Sept. 27 January 1, 1989, in urban areaform one umbrella 
Ohio State Bonfire at 9 p.m. at Douglas Field marked the While the s
organization. 

Oct. 3 Congressional passing California, TOrganization leaders 
of a bill designating Mexico, andfound many advan­
The Last Angry Brown Hat at 7 p.m. Place TBA 
the period of highest c
tages to having only one Oct. 5 September 15 to Hispanics, thegroup; primarily, hold-• October 15 as Hispanic ing in the M1ing only one meeting .;..,.... Spanish Rock at thEl CSC 

Heritage Month, states.
increased atten--1'---.->J 

Oct. 10 turning what Geographi
dance, eliminating 

:-':1N~., ... began as· a Americans m
stress and confu­Candlelight Vigil at 6 p.m. at the Grotto 
week-long group in thesion. In the past, Oct. 12 c o m -Pue.rto Rican
the three .:')1~--..~a_ 

memo­New Jersey,
founding Latino March in Washingt()n, D.C. 
ration Florida. Hergroups also 
into a Mexican-Arnefound it diffi­month­Ricans are t ! o n g groups among 
;ACCENT
Friday, September 20, 1996 page 13 
STUFF To Do 
Poetry Contest The National Library of Poetry will 


By LUISA 
HEREDIA 
Accent Writer 
I
t would be much easier to eonw to this university and forget where I come from and who I am. It would be much easier to come to this university and play the public relations game and learn to fiend for money rather than help­ing people. It would be much easier to come to this univnrsity and accept everything that was 
fed to me. But then again, the struggles that my people have faced have never been easy. 
Whtm I chose to come to this university, it was not bncause of its prestige. Berekeley could have given me that plus an nducation in Chicano Studies. Hather it was in order to make change, to establish something that would draw others to this campus. You see, my people am everywhen~. and my place and struggle is wherever 
cs 
the U.S. Census mber of Hispanics peeled to reach 30 I year 2000, which 1r 15 percent of a m of 251 million fastest growing today, Hispanics very state of the ostly concentrated 
hwestern states of LS, Colorado, New rizona have the centration of :are also many liv­,vest and eastern 
.lly, Mexican­ke up the largest 1uthwestern states, in New York and and Cubans in e in the Midwest, ricans and Puerto 
r="~~~ge. t ethnk 
they 
may 
be. 
s 0 

m y 
strug­
gle has 
led me 
here, to 
uphold the 
legacy of 
Dr. Julian 
Samora and 
S U F R 
activist 
Beatriz 
Cruz Rivera, 
to bring the 
little bit of 
awareness 
that I have 
and share it 
with others 
so that we 
can ask for 
a better 
curriculum, 
and to 
breathe 
new life into 
the commu­
nity as a 
resurgence 
of the spirit 
felt in the 
'60's when 

across 
Today, the influence of Hispanic, Latino, and Chicano cultures can be seen almost anywhere. 
Despite the recent furor over English-only restrictions, the United States has a strong history of being influenced by the Spanish language. The states of Texas, Nevada, Colorado, California, Montana, aild Florida all owe their names to Spanish words. Others like "rodeo," "hurricane," and "cafeteria" have entered into the American language as easily as "patio," "plaza" and "tobacco." 
In 1992, salsa outsold ketchup for the first time in the United States, and tacos, tortillas, chew­ing-gum and the ever-popular Caesar salad are all of Hispanic origin. 
Despite a nearly invisible pres­ence in the mainstream media, television and radio aimed at Hispanics in the U.S. is a multi­million dollar a year business. The two major Hispanic television broadcast networks, Univision and Telemundo, can be found in every major Latin community from Miami to Los Angeles, and as of 1992 there were nearly 800 news­papers and magazines either writ­ten in Spanish or directed at a His­panic audience. 

Contributions to American cul­ture is evident in the arts, humani­ties, and in service to the country. 
Emerging Latina and Chicana writers like Sandra Cisneros, Julia Alvarez, and Sandra Maria Esteves are not only making a name for themselves in the liter­ary world but are opening the eyes of many Americans to the writings of Hispanic women in the United States. 
War heroes like Phillip Bazar, the first Hispanic to earn the Medal of Honor during the Civil War, are joined by recipients like Ysmael Villegas from World War II and Roy Benavides from the Viet­nam era. Loretta Janet Velasquez, a Cuban-born woman, enlisted in the Confederate Army in 1860, masquerading as a man without her husband's knowledge. During the Spanish-American War in 1898, there were several Hispanic members of Theodore Roosevelt's "Rough Riders." 
Many Hispanic actors, actresses and musicians contribute to show­business, although some are more visibly active within the Latino community than others: actors like Edward James Olmos, Jimmy Smits, and Martin Sheen; actresses Elizabeth Pefia, Liz Torres of "The John Laroquette Show" and Daphne Zuniga of "Melrose Place"; musicians Tito Puente, Celia Cruz, Linda Ronstadt and Joan Baez. 
With so many contributions to the U.S. culture made by the Hispanic community, it is fitting that one month is set aside to cele­brate its impact and the role Hispanic-Americans have made in making America what it is today. 
,. 
f 
I 
page 14 The Observer • CLASSIFIEDS Friday, September 20, 1996
I 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at309 Haggar College Center. 
Classifieds Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 

Hundereds of Students Are Earning  IBM PSI 486 28.8 Modem  I will trade one Air Force, Pitt or  Need Ohio State tickets.  1 OSU GA FOR SALE B/0  
NOTICES  Free Spring Break Trips & Money! Sell 8 Trips & Go Freel Bahamas  CD ROM,Sound Blaster, Printer  Rutgers GA for one OSU.Bob. 277­2510.  Call anytime. 302-832-7786  NOTENDZONE CALL DAVE 4-4040  
Cruise $279, Cancun & Jamaica  call 233-6903 eve.  TRADE ONLY -2 WA GAs for 2  
SKYDIVEII  $399, Panama City/Daytona $1191  Need 2 OSU GA's For Parents  OSU GAs -273-8379.  std booklet 4 sale  
Experience the ULTIMATE  www.springbreaktravel.com  Call Rob x1902  233 4269  
of all sports  1-600-676-6386  Real Men Wear Kilts  NO DAD NEEDS TWO (2) GAs  
Training students for over  Order your Irish Kilt now!  I need 2 Ohio State tix, stud or GA  FOR PURDUE, OHIO STATE AND  FOR SALE: 4 OSU stud tix call Jen  
30 years  COLLEGE COUPONS -the student  Caii288-0116  call Gina 273-5833  WASHINGTON. CALL LARRY  @667-8435  
1 hour North of South Bend  coupon book you love to use is  (219)422-6088  
Call for class times  seeking a local sales representa­ Buy & Sell but need  OSU GA for sale to highest bid.  
GREAT LAKES SKYDIVERS 1-600-351-6617  tive! Earn $7/hr. or MORE! Put your sales experience to good use. Must  TICKETS  6 Washington Tix Call Vince x1186  DESPERATELY NEED WASH. GA'S. CALL #2456  264-4163  
1-616-628-4892  have car. Call 600n67-6393 ask lor  For Sale: 4 OSU GAlli II  
Janet.  NOTRE DAME GA'S WANTED  WANTED  NEED 2 OHIO ST GA'S ­ Best Offer, (219)271-2837  
VFW 624  ALL GAMES HOME  2 GAs for Air Force  WILL TRADE 2 RUTGRS GA'S  
Friday night dinners -4:30-6  LARGE REAL ESTATE CO NR.  AND AWAY  Carrie x2344  + $$  NO Parents need tickets for OSU  
Dancing-9-1  CAMPUS IS SEEKING RELIABLE  232-0058  634-1382.  game! Please call (630)810-0710  
All members & guests welcome.  PERSON FOR PART-TIME  24 HAS.  3 Dave Matthews tickets for sale  
214 U.S. 33 N.-Next to Knight's  RECEPTIONIST POSITION.  BUY -SELL -TRADE  call Eileen x0760  Alum needs 2-4 AIR FORCE Tix for  Have Washington, Air Force, and  
Inn.  HOURS ARE  Family  Pitt GA tix. Will trade for Ohio State  
5 TO 7PM M-F, 9 TO 1 PM SAT.  TICKET-MART, INC.  Need 2/3 OSU Tix for guy who got  612-742-7638 Collect  and/or B.C. tix. Call Stephen  
WORLD YOUTH DAY  PHONE EXP A MUST.  me my FAKE 10, $150 ea. @0538  (607)336-7218, 335-3129.  
WANT TO BE WITH THE POPE IN  $7/HOUR 243-9555  Need 2 OSU GA's  Wanted: 2 or more GAs @ face $  
PARIS NEXT AUGUST?  Parents are coming in town!  Seeking tickets for TEXAS, OHIO  for home games. 412/352-2219  FOR SALE: SR. STUD. BKL T  
Call Jeff 232-0550  Going to Mexico City lor Oct.  Call George x3669  St., WASHINGTON, and PITT  call 271-3696  
Break?? I'm looking for anyone  Call Greg at 219-273-1007  NEEDED: 3 Ohio St. GA's. Call  
Entertainment Electronics Co.  going to the Cervantino Festival,  WANTED: NOTRE DAME GA'S  Jason at 4-1 035.  Need 1 WASH stud ticket  
3509 Grape Rd (@Classic Stereo)  etc. Call Bernadette @264-5009  ANY/ALL GAMES. PLEASE CALL  $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$  will trade my OSU ticket or pay $  
255-1172  232-0061.  NEED 4 AF + 4 PITT GAs  Melissa x1339  
Hrs: M-F 11-5 Sat. 10-2 You break it, we'll fix ill II  FOR RENT  I NEED FOOTBALL GA'SI WILL BEAT ANY OFFER!  CHRIS 288-91 02 $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$  TICKETS DESPERATELY NEED­ED -PLEASE HELPIII Family wants to come to a game for  PERSONAL  
THAT PRETTY PLACE, Bed and  WALK TO CAMPUS  CALL 243-1287  Need Two GA's for Air Force game  my senior year. Please help  
Breakfast Inn has space available  2-3-4-5 BEDROOM HOMES  call Eric  x1661  Would like 2-6 tickets for any home  FAX IT FASTIII  
for football wknds. 5 Rooms with  232-2595  Dave Mathews/Black Crowes  game. Please call Brian at 287­ Sending & Receiving  
private baths, $70 -$90,  1st 1 0 Rows  232-0056  OSU TICKETS PRICED TO SELLI  4876.  Thank you.  at  
Middlebury, 30 miles from campus.  Need a place to stay on football  All tix MUST go, call soon 4-1351  THE COPY SHOP  
Toll Road, Exit #107,  weekends?  JUNIOR PARENT WEEKEND  LaFortune Student Center  
1-800-418-9487  Furnished apartment for short term  RUTGERS TICKETS AVAILABLE  NEEDED: One Wash. GA or con­ Need WASHINGTON -1 or 2 ga's  Our Fax# (219) 631-FAX1  
rent. Full kitchen, living room, two  PLEASE CALL 232-0058  verted STUDENT tix. Will pay$$$  OR studs. WILL TRADE ANY  FAX IT FASTIII  
FREET-SHIRT  bedrooms, sleeps 4+. Call287­ Kristin 4838  STUD. kate x3872  
+ $1000  4876.  WANTED 2 GAs NO VS OHIO S  Chestnut House B&B,  
Credit Card fundraisers for fraterni­ CALL COLLECT 215-355-7131  Will trade one Wash.,Air Force, or  $$ Please Help!! $$  St. Joseph, MI.  
ties, sororities & groups. Any cam­ ROOMS-NIGEL Y DECOR. IN PRI­ RON  Rutgers GA for one OSU. 277­ 94 NO Alum Needs  Elegantly decorated home over­ 
pus organization can raise up to  VATE HOME, 2 MI. N. OF CAM­ 2510.  1 or 2 Stud or GA tix to  looking Lake Michigan and only 40  
$1000 by earning a whopping  PUS. FOOTBALL WKNDS., CONT.  NO Alum needs Ohio St. Tix (GAs).  Ohio St and Wash­ mins. from NO.  
$5.00NISA application.  BKFST INCL. CALL KIM 277-8340  Call (313)420-1208 or (212)250­ Will trade 2 Air Force or Rutgers  Call Joanne- Luxuriate in double whirlpools, pri­ 
Callt-600-932-0526 ext.65  6513  GAs for One OSU.277-2510.  516-742-1923 (night)  vate baths, full breakfasts & hors  
Qualifies callers receive  House for rent Lake Maxinkukee 45  or 212-415-3009 (day)  d'oeuvres served fireside.  
FREET-SHIRT  min Notre Dame 4BD. CA FP  GA TICKETS WANTED  GA  Selling OHIO STATE TIXI  (616) 983-7413.  
APPL. $650. 317-942-2106  ONLY  A LOCAL BUSINESS  6 GAs CHEAP!  OSU Weekend Hotel Rooms  
STOMPER BOB  alter 6-317-942-2408.  WOULD LIKE TO PURCHASE  Call Sandra x4927  South Bend Marriott  STUDENT PLAYERS WANTS  
Saturday night  2 OR 4 SEASON TICKETS  OR  Two Rooms-9/27-9/28  YOUR HELP  
at Corby's Pub  ROOMS IN PRIVATE HOME FOR  INDIVIDUAL  GAMES  OHIO STATE TIXI  At Cost (216) 622-8207  we are looking for people to help us  
!O:OOp.m.  ND-SMC EVENTS.  ;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;277-1659  Selling GAs CHEAP!  with the production of a musical  
BE THERE!  IDEAL FOR FOOTBALL WEEK­ Call Sandra x4927  •••••••Need 4 Air Force Tix••••••  beginning mid-Oct and running the  
ENDS.  FOR SALE RUTGER TICKETS  Please call MB at 4-1759.  first week in Dec. We are looking  
VERY CLOSE TO CAMPUS.  GA. RUTGERS "CHEAP" ........... ..  Need 3(or2) PITT TIX(Stu/GA)  for:  
Joel Cummins, piano soloist  243-0656.  RUTGERS 272-7233 RUTGERS....  Will Trade 2 AF TIX &/or Pay$  Need GA's for Air 'Force, Pitt &  VOCAL DIRECTOR  
v•ill present a recital on Sunday at  Call4-1628  Rutgers. Call Jay @287-3736  MUSICAL DIRECTOR  
2:00p.m. at the Annenberg  I Bedroom APT; clean, private bath;  **Need Air Force TICKETS!!**  COREOGRAPHER  
Auditorium in the Snite Museum.  entrance 3.5 miles from campus. 6  Please Call Kelly @ 4x2665  DESPERATE for 3 Wash tix. GA or  WANTED: Washington tickets. stu­ MUSICIANS  
or 12 month leases only. Call alter ILOST & FOUND I 5p.m. 2;~5~ SALE  NEED 2 OHIO ST.TICKETS G.A.or S.A. Please call ANNE @634-3847.  stud tix turned into GA thru exchange. Offering handsome reward. Call Ryan @ 4-3592.  dent or GA. Call Nathan at 4-2031 I need 6 OSU tickets Will pay high prices or  If you are interestred call Adam@ 4x4115today!!l Help! I need a senior bar parking  
REWARD! I If anyone has or knows  I._____________,  NEED 4 GAs for WASH  ! I 2 OSU GAs FOR SALE I I Call4-1473 w/your offer  will trade BULLS tickets! Call Jason@ x1225  pass for OSU. Will trade JACC pass plus money. Please call  
someone who has my black  COMPUTER 4 SALE  call CHRISSY @ 273-2580  Allison at 243-9038.  
Jansport backpack with a camara  DELL LX41 000 LIKE NEW  -Wanted OSU Student Tix-­ WILL TRADE 2 WASH GAS  
and datebook inside, I will  6MB, 100 MHZ  Need 1 OSU ticket  Who wants to sit in GA anyway?  AND/OR $ FOR 2 OSU GAS  Hey Tobin, show me your t•••s  
gladly give a reward for its return!!  $1500 CALL 233-5114  Call Greg at 2318  Just supply the ticket and I'll worry  CALL KEVIN X3286  
Please , I would really, really,really  AFTER 6:30 PM  about the rest. $$$$  Ortega, are you having a fiesta in  
appreciate it!! NO QUESTIONS  Call  4-3005 and ask for Player  BAND PARENTSII  your pants  
ASKEDI!  COUCH & DORM REFRIG.272­ ***Hey!*** Help me find two  need 4 GA Air Force  
Call 634-1403.  6306  Washington GAs for my parent's  2 OSU GA Tix 4-Sale  call collect  EARN MONEY!II!I  
first NO game, call lnga @ X2538  Call272-5138  (414) 208-1632  Please help me with my senior  
Lost Purdue weekend: light blue  4 DAVE MATTHEWS TIX 4 SALE  Leave offer  comprehensive. I need to interview  
rosary w/ silver cross. 20$ reward.  CALL 272-3229  SELLING 1 Ohio State GA b/o  N.D. Football Tix-Buy/Sell  1 0 people who grew up in single  
x-2061  4-0931.  FOR SALE  674-7645  parent homes between the ages of  
'67 Mazda 323, Air,  5 OSU Tickets  5 and 15. A reward for this confi­ 
•••••LOST'***'*  Automatic, 90k, Blue  NEED TIX-HOME GAMES  (219) 232-8082  2Wash GA's  dential interview will be granted.  
I lost a Corona keychain/bottle  Great Condition  312-951-5008  Best Offer.  Please call Caroline at 243-9264  
opener (with three keys) on it over  Call John 631-6414  FOR SALE  1-612-427-3444  
the Purdue weekend. If you found  2 OSU Tix  they take credit cards! LB lounge,  
it, please call Paul at 634-1519.  BUYING N.D. FOOTBALL TICK­ b/o x0868  HAVE: 2 Pitt GA's, 2 Air Force  LBiounge,LBiounge  
REWARD.  GA's for all home games. Priced  ETS, PUBLIC AND FACULTY  GA's. NEED: 2 Wash. GA's or Stu  
CHEAP. Call4-1304  SEATS CALL 1-800-255-2850  NOTRE DAME GA'S WANTED  tix. Call (610)530-0156  there was a little girl and she had a  
WANTED  Kenwood 200W Amp  Preferred tailgate parking pass  ALL GAMES HOME AND AWAY  I have 2 Air Force & 2 Rutgers  little cur\ ...  
$300  needed for OSU game. Will pay  232-0058  G.A.s -I need 4 PITT G.A.'s -Call  what is this?  limerick night?  
Babysitter Needed. ND/OSU game,  Lux Sound 4-Channel OJ Mixer  $$$.Call Matt at (614)469-3605.  24 HAS.  Shawn 215-676-6685  
9/26. Attend family tailgate, watch 1  Sound Effects, etc.  BUY -SELL -TRADE  NEED OSU GA!!!!III  
yr. old daughter during game. Call  $300  TICKETS WANTED -Will pay pre­ Need 4 OSU stud tix  DAVEx0516  
Matt at (614)469-3605 during day.  Call Isaac 269-9025  mium price for 4 tickets for the  TICKET-MART, INC.  Call Doug@243-9224  
NO/Ohio State game on Sat. 28th.  well, trouble and trouble were  
Need to get rid of 4 Dave Mathews  Compuparts Lab., Inc.  No student tickets please.  WANTED: NOTRE DAME GA'S  1 OSU GA for sale  breaking into spontaneous dance  
tix at face value  Grand Opening I Very Low Price!  "Dynamite" seats only. Call  ANY/ALL GAMES. PLEASE CALL  Call Mike@243-9224  throughout the evening  
call283-0767  Big Sales on Computer System  Bill/Anna at 800-457-0466.  232-0061.  
and Parts!  FOR SALE  what, belle, you ate a whole order  
NATIONAL PARKS HIRING­ 8 MB RAM EDO $43  NEED 2 OR 4 WASH. GAs. FOR  $$$$$$  1 OSU GA, best offer  by yourself?  
Positions are now availalbe at  8 X CD-ROM $99  PARENTS. HAVE 2 RUTGERS  I NEED GA OR FACULTY TIXS  Call Aaron 634-2058  
National Parks, For-ests & Wildlife  2.0 GB Hard Drive $248  GAs. WILL PAY OR TRADE.  ALL HOME GAMES.  Mao says ....  
Preserves. Excellent benefits +  1 MB PCI SVGA CARD $35  ·CALL DAVE @ 4-1913  272-6551  Need 1 STUDENT ticket for WASH!  I know a little woman in Bejing  
bonuses! Call: 1-206-971-3620  and lots morel  Jeff: 233-2460  who can ...X2187  
extN55B46  320 N. Dixie Way (US 31, 1 block  Grad Non-Degree Student needs  N.D. FOOTBALL GA TIX  
south of Cleveland Rd)  GA tickets to any games.  BOUGHT & SOLD  Need 1 OSU ticket  I think Papa had a little bit too much  
ALASKA SUMMER EMPLOYMENT  Tel: 243-0421  Call Val at 243-0798.  232-2378 -A.M.  Student or GA  vino last night when he made that  
-Students Needed! Fishing  288-2726-P.M.  Please call Darryl @x4264  prediction.  
Industry. Earn up to $3,000­ BUYING G.A.'S FOOTBALL  
$6,000+ per month. Room and  87 Mazda 323, manual transm.,  312.404.4903  WANTED TO BUY OHIO STATE  G.A.'s FOR SALE  Two words -THE ROCKET. One  
Board I Transportation! Male or  AC, grey, 4 doors, new muffler,  OR WASH. VS. ND.D TIX-CALL  NDvs. OSU  number-201!!!!11111  
Female. No experience necessary.  $2,300 or best, 256-5523  NEED 2 OHIO ST. GA OR STU­ DAVE (614)764-7355  call 634-1708  
Call (206)971-3510 exiA55847  DENT 271-9278  The same two words -major league  
King Size Futon, 1 year old, $150,  n. d. tickets for sale  For sale: Two OSU GAs. $35  NFL disappointment.  
EASTERN EUROPE JOBS- call 256-5523  Need Ohio State tix. Willing to buy  271 1635  each. Call Ryan Sachire at 4-1679.  
Teach l;lasic conversational English  or trade. Call Matt 271-3683  I love my new halll!  
in Prague, Budapest, or Krakow. No  '78 SILVER ANNIVERSARY  $NEED OSU, WASH, & AF TIX  Married student tickets/booklets lor  
teaching certificate or European  CORVETTE, 30,000 MILES.  Need Ohio St. GA's. Buy or trade  216-995-1902 5-7 PM EDT M-F  sale. Call 271-8648 Leave mes­ Did you just get off the Mayflower?  
languages required. Inexpensive  $9,500 FIRM.  Matt-271-3683  216-650-5264 7-9 PM EDT M-F  sage.  
Room & Board + other benefits. For  CALL 243-0658.  12 inches of chicken?  
info. call:  sold OSU Was AF Pitt Rut stu  NO ALUM NEEDS  FOR SALE  
(206)971-3680 ext.K55842  tix2775931  OSU/WASH/AF/RUT/PITT TIX  1 OSU STU TICKET  Doesn't that pull-out look marvelous  
1988 Honda CRX, rare automatic,  CALL MIKE 212-372-7214  CALL 4-1881 b/o  
HUGE NO FAN DESPERATE FOR  all maintenance receipts available,  II! FOR SALE !II  What's up Norby?  
5 GAs FOR RUTGERS. CALL PAT  94,000 miles, call Ray/Jacky  STUD. TICKET BOOKLET  Need tickets for N.D.-Texas  KATE NEEDS 2 WASH. TIX!  
(6 13)360-2243.  219/243-9182, $4500/best  tel. 243-9448  Sept.21 Call1-800-840-3548  CALL ANYTIME -284-5456  I love this placelll!ll  

• MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL 
Braves open up lead Boggs, Yanks shell Orioles in East for stretch run Mariners pull 
By PAUL NEWBERRY Braves, it's to keep pace with 
offsweep of
Associated Press San Diego for the wild-card spot. The Padres, who also are ATLANTA battling for the NL West title, 

rival Rangers 
Three weeks ago, the Atlanta had a one-game lead on By TOM WITHERS
Braves were running away Montreal before Thursday's 
Associated Press 
with the NL East. A few days play. ago, it looked like they were "We've got to go there, have 
NEW YORKgoing to blow it. fun and win some ballgames," It's time for the Orioles to for­
By the time second-place Montreal's Moises Alou said 
get about the AL East and startMontreal arrived in Atlanta to after the Expos beat New York watching the race out West.
begin a five-game series 4-3 to go 17 games above .500 
Kenny Rogers pitched 5 2-3Thursday, the Braves had re­for the first time this year. 
shutout innings and Wade
established their comfort zone. "It's not a do-or-die situation. 
Boggs went 4-for-4 Thursday asThe Showdown in the East is Maybe the press and the fans the New York Yankees openednow nothing more than a play­see it that way. We've got to a five-game lead over Baltimoreoff tunoup for the Braves and play like we're playing any­
with an 9-3 win over the 
a chance to stay alive in the body else." 
Orioles in the opener of a twi­wild-card raee for the Expos. The Braves, who share a night doubleheader.
"Montreal is fighting for spring training home with the New York chased Miketh11ir lives," Chipper Jones Expos in West Palm Beach, 
Mussina (19-11) in two inningssaid before the opening game Fla., have nonetheless failed to for its fifth straight win againstof the series. "They're liable to develop a passionate rivalry Baltimore. The Yankees are 10­be a little anxious coming in with Montreal. 
2 this season against the sec­
here. We had trouble with The teams played in differ­
ond-place Orioles. 
them last year, hut we're 4-1 ent divisions until two years Baltimore, which had madethis year. It's Braves' time." ago, and a prime chance to stir up nine games in the standingsAtlanta had a 12 1/2-game things up was ruined by labor since late July, came to Newlead over the Expos on Aug. discord. 
York down three games and
30, its biggest of the season. The Expos had the best 
with designs on catching the
Then the Braves lost 11 of 13 record in baseball and led the Yankees. But after dropping theand saw their margin dwindle Braves by six games when the first two games of the show­to just 4 1/2 games last strike ended the 1994 season. 
down series, the Orioles' lead inSaturday. Last year, after the players 
the wild-card race slipped to
By Thursday, however, returned, Montreal struggled 
just 1 1/2 games over Seattle.
Atlanta had won four in a row while Atlanta cruised to its The Mariners, who have wonto push its margin back to six lirst World Series title. 
seven straight, were host to AL games with only 11 remaining Now, with the Expos back in 
West-leading Texas on 
-eight against the Expos. The the picture -if only marginal­Thursday.
two t11ams will close out the ly -the Braves want to send a 
In the second game, David
regular season with a three­message with this series. 
Wells started against New 
game set in Montreal. "We realize we could play York's David Cone. 
"It's not as Hxciting as it them right into the playoffs or Rogers (11-8), pulled from hiswould be if we had a one-or knock them out," Jones said. 
previous start after four innings two-gamn" lead. pitcher Greg "I vote for the latter." 
at Toronto because of a sore
Maddux said. The Braves' turnaround this shoulder, got his first win in six "But I'm glad we have a six­week can be attributed to the 
starts. The left-hander, who game lnad. Sometimes this starting pitchers. Maddux and 
gave up just three hits, was re­stuff gnts a little nerve-wrack­Denny Neagle both had com­moved in the sixth after walk­
ing. It's easier to watch the plete-game victories, Tom 
ing Bobby Bonilla with two 
gamr.s when you have a nice Glavine got within one out of a outs.
lead." complete game and John Brian Boehringer allowed
For the Expos, the realistic Smoltz worked eight innings Rafael Palmeiro's 37th homer,goal no longer is to catch the for a win. 

German-American 
National Congress 





SoOi' 

a two-run shot, and Cal Ripken's 24th, a drive in the eighth. New York's bullpen hadn't allowed a homer in 50 1-3 innings. 
But by then the Yankees had built an 8-0 lead. 
Tim Raines homered and Mariano Duncan drove in three runs for the Yankees, who have won eight of nine. 
Raines hit his sixth homer leading off the fourth to extend the lead to 4-0, and the Yankees blew it open the sixth, scoring four times. Cecil Fielder and Jim Leyritz sandwiched RBI singles around a two-run single by Duncan. 
Mussina was in trouble from the outset. He put the first two runners on in the first, but a double play and strikeout bailed him out. However, con­secutive walks opened the sec­ond, Derek Jeter bounced a two-run single to center and Boggs singled to score Jeter for a 3-0 lead. 
Mussina entered the game with just 60 walks in 226 1-3 innings, but had five in the first 1 2-3 innings. The right-han­der, who started Tuesday night and threw 16 pitches before the game was rained out, was removed after 55 pitches -his shortest outing of the year. 
Rogers issued a pair of one­out walks in the third, but got Roberto Alomar to ground into an inning-ending double play. 
Seattle 7, Texas 6 
The Seattle Mariners pulled it off, completing a hard-to­believe four-game sweep of Texas that put them right back in the AL West race. 
Seattle, nine games behind on Sept. 11, moved within two games of the reeling Rangers with a 7-6 victory Thursday. Ken Griffey Jr. and Dan Wilson drove in three runs each, and a second straight division title seems possible with 11 games remaining. 
Last year, the Mariners over­came a 12 1/2-game deficit on Aug. 20 and beat California in a one-game playoff. This year's comeback has been even more stunning, with Seattle gaining seven games in the standings in eight days. 
The Mariners have won eight straight and were just one game behind Baltimore in the AL wild-card race pending the second game of the Orioles' doubleheader at New York. Texas, in search of its first postseason appearance, has lost eight of nine, including five straight in the Kingdome. 
The Rangers' frustration showed in the fourth after the Rangers came back from a 3-0 deficit only to have Griffey hit a two-run single that put Seattle ahead 5-3. 
Manager Johnny Oates argued heatedly with first-base umpire Larry Young and then with plate umpire Mark Johnson. Will Clark argued with Young, and Dennis Cook had strong words of displeasure with Johnson after being taken out of the game. Texas catcher Ivan Rodriguez also argued with the plate umpire. 
Seattle, which won the season series 10-3, had the crowd of 39,769 pumped up. Among the signs bedecking the Kingdome: "Refuse II Lose Anytime" and "The Magic Is Back. 
Seattle took a 2-0 lead in the second when Dave Hollins walked with the bases loaded and Wilson hit a sacrifice fly, and Griffey singled home a run in the third. 
Texas tied the score in the fourth when Mark Whiten's throwing error in left allowed Ivan Rodriguez to come home on Mickey Tettleton's single and Dean Palmer followed with a two-run single. 
Griffey put the Mariners ahead to stay in the bottom half following singles by Hollins and Joey Cora and a walk to Alex Rodriguez. One inning later, Wilson hit a two-run homer for a 7-3 lead. 
Mickey Tettleton hit a solo homer for Texas in the sixth, and the Rangers pulled within a run in the eighth when Clark hit an RBI double and scored on Tettleton's sacrifice fly. 

presented by Notre Dame Communication and Theatre 
631·7361 
BEST FOREIGN LANGUAGE FILM 
FRIDAY SEPT. 20 and SATURDAY SEPT. 21 7:30 and 9:30PM 
http://www.nd.edu/-cothweb/wwwsnite.html 
I 
I • NFL 
I Favre appeals status in rehab Smith, 'Boys in search 
page 16 The Observer • SPORTS Friday, September 20, 1996 
By ARNIE STAPLETON 
Associated Press 
GREEN BAY, Wis. 
Brett Favre says he wants out of the NFL's drug abuse pro­gram not because he craves a beer, but because he misses his freedom. 
Favre is appealing his status in the league's substance abuse program, which he entered in May after he told the NFL he was addicted to the painkiller Vicodin. 
His appeal is being reviewed by NFL commissioner Paul Tagliabue, who could reach a decision as early as week's end, the Green Bay Press-Gazette reported Thursday. 
Green Bay coach Mike Holmgren first heard about the appeal during a national confer­ence call with reporters Thursday afternoon. He seemed taken aback and later was unusually testy at practice. 
In the locker room afterward, Favre said he was through talk­ing about his addiction and aftercare, something that would please the organization tremen­dously. 
"I ain't saying (expletive) now," Favre said. "So, don't even ask." 
Pressed if that was his choice or a directive from Holmgren or geneniJ manager Ron Wolf, Favre said the decision was his own. 
"Yeah. I'm tired of this. I'm tired of talking about it," he said. Holmgren also refused to talk about it after practice. 
''I'm not talking anymore to anybody today," he said as he left the field. 

Favre, last year's MVP, spent 46 days last summer at the Menninger Clinic in Topeka, Kan. to treat his addiction. He now takes non-narcotic medi­cine to deal with his aches and pains -and that's not some­thing he's trying to change. 
Favre said because he came forward with his addiction vol­untarily, he shouldn't be subject to the league's stringent after­care program. 
Because Favre is "behavioral­referred" to the league's sub­stance abuse program, the NFL requires frequent random drug tests and that he abstain from alcohol for two years. He also must meet with a local, league­appointed counselor twice a week and always has to let the league know of his whereabouts. 
If Favre tests positive for Vicodin or alcohol, he will be regarded as a first-time offender and could be fmed, but not sus­pended. 
If he were reclassified as self­referred, however, the league would offer its assistance, but the Packers would conduct his rehabilitation. He could come and go at any time and he could drink alcohol if he wanted. 
Favre has indicated before that he'll probably drink beer when his aftercare is finished and that he didn't expect the program to last two years. 
"I don't want people to think, 'Now he's playing well so he wants to go back to partying.' There's nothing wrong with the program. It's just that I shouldn't be in it, because I'm voluntary. I've thought that from the beginning," Favre told the newspaper. 
"This isn't about being able to drink. I haven't touched a drop in five months, so that's not a problem. This is about me regaining my freedom," Favre said. 
The NFL, citing confidentiality rules, declined to discuss Favre's situation Thursday. 
"The only thing I can say is the facts of the Brett Favre mat­ter are confidential under the terms of our substance abuse program," NFL spokesman Greg Aiello said. "I wish we could say more." 
On the teleconference, Holmgren said the confiden­tiality of the drug program pre­vents him from keeping up with every twist and turn of Favre's case. 
''I'm not privy to all that," Holmgr~n said. "So, I don't know ... 
Holmgren had wanted the is­sue to die after a news confer­ence on July 17 in which he and his quarterback addressed the issue, but also declined to answer several questions. 
"My hope was that it would eliminate some of the stuff that would be asked in the future," Holmgren said. "And I suppose I was a little naive about that. He has to ultimately be the final guy who says, 'No, I'm not going to talk about that.' " 
When Favre announced his addiction May 14, the team's news release stated he "volun­tarily" entered the league's sub­stance abuse program. Favre now says he was forced into rehab because the alternative was a $970,588 fine -four weeks' worth of his $4.125 mil­lion salary. 
The Observer 
is now hiring 
a Saint Mary's Sports Editor. 
Interest in sports preferred. Call Caroline Blum at 63 7-4540 if interested. 
$70 to $200 off Entire Univega Alpine 
Series Bikes We Ren-e Bjcyclesl 
Pitt.~ we service any bicycle make 
and model! 


of lost running game 
By DENNE FREEMAN Associated Press 
IRVING, Texas 
Emmitt Smith is all suited out 
with nowhere to run. 

"I look up and see eight-man 
fronts all the time," said Smith, 
the NFL's top rusher in four of 
the past six seasons. "We're not 
running the ball like we should. 
I just hope we get it figured out 
soon." 

Smith has only 253 yards in 
the Dallas Cowboys' first three 
games, averaging only 3.7 yards 
per carry. That average ranks 
him eighth in the league. 
"Nothing is a given anymore," · Smith said. "Teams are picking 
up on things we have been suc­
cessful doing in the past." 
The defending Super Bowl 
champions have stumbled to a 
1-2 start because the lack of 
passing proficiency has put a 
strain on the running game. 
Teams are loading up to stop 
Smith, forcing the Cowboys to 
the passing game that is missing 
suspended wide receiver 
Michael Irvin and injured tight end Jay Novacek. 
"Teams are loading up on us," Smith said. "We have to find a way to make them pay." 
Complicating the Cowboys' run problems is the fact that Smith isn't running on all cylin­ders. 
''I'm not 100 percent," Smith said. "I still have some things bothering me." 
Smith wouldn't get specific, but he still hasn't recovered from a twisted knee suffered in the preseason. 
''I'm not used to being this banged up this early in the year," he said. 
The Buffalo Bills present Smith's next challenge. 
"Buffalo didn't look great against Pittsburgh, but they'll make plays against us," Smith said. "Everybody plays their best games against us. Even the sorriest team in the NFL gets up for the Cowboys. That's the high standard we have to play to. We almost have to play perfect foot­ball to win games." 


I LA ESPERANZA 
E Authentic Mexican Kitchen ~ "Your Passport to a New Eating Experience.' 
~ 

~Serving lunch & dinner, & catering available ~Great Prices-Average dinner: $6.50I Averagelunch: $3.95 
~ 

TACOS... ENCHILADAS... CHIMICHANGAS.,.. 
~ E CHILE RELLENOS... TAMALES... FLAUTAS. . . I
I I
WET BURRITOS & MORE... 
E I 
~ Open 7 days a week! ~ ~
E Mon.-Thurs. ll:OO a.m.-9:00p.m. ~ ~ Fri. & Sat. 10:00 a.m.-10:00 p.m. E ~ 10:00 a.m.-8:00p.m. ~ 
~ 
N. Ironwood-Next 

door to Nick~ Patio Within Walking Distance from Campus! 
GET INVOLVED IN 1996-97 JPW 
The committee for this year's Junior Parent's Weekend is looking for a sophomore chairper­son. This is your chance to get involved in one of the most exciting events of junior year. Don't let this opportunity pass YOU by, apply now! 
• 
Applications are now available at the LaFortun Information Desk 

• 
Applications must be returned to 315 LaFortune by September 26th. 


IF YOU HAVE ANY QUESTIONS PLEASE CALL JOHN MENICUCCI X4113 




• BOXING 

Despite HIV, Morrison determined to box again 
FOR COOL •. RED 
.JIANS 

Fighter admits he is not 'good role model' 
By KELLY KURT 
Associated Press 
TULSA 

Former heavyweight boxer Tommy Morrison, who is HIV positive, said today that he will 
11011. 
$30 
MIRRORS SATIN TOP 
$34 
L.E.I. CARPENTER JEANS 
return to the ring to fight one last time to raise money for children with AIDS and aware­ness about the disease. 
Morrison said there is no site, no date and no opponent, but he hopes the fight occurs before the spring. 
Morrison said he has done ex­tensive research and firmly be­lieves that the virus cannot be transmitted in the ring. 
''I'm not now, nor have I ever been a good role model," Morrison said. "A lot of people are probably not going to like what I'm doing, but they will have to listen to what I have to say." 
Morrison said he feels a real empathy for children with AIDS because he has seen them being rejected in their commu­nities and schools. 
"Being rejected is more emo­tional than having the virus it­self," Morrison said. 
He said he withdrew from the media and public appearances after he announced his retire­ment in February because he wanted to spend time informing himself about the disease and deciding what he could do to in­crease awareness. 
Stuart Campbell, Morrison's attorney, said a number of fighters had expressed interest in facing Morrison. He would not identify the boxers, but did point to comments made by Ross Puritty as an example. 
Puritty has said he would con­sider fighting Morrison. 
They are "some that are either currently or have been ranked," Campbell said. 
But Morrison may have trou­ble getting the necessary licens­ing for a fight. 
Becki Andre, of the state Professional Boxing Advisory Board, said that Morrison likely would not be licensed to fight in Oklahoma because he remains on medical suspension in 
$30 
MIRRORS SATIN TOP 
$34 

PARIS BLUES ZIP-FRONT JEANS 
------~~--~---­
page 18 The Observer • SPORTS Friday, September 20, 1996 
• SMC VOllEYBAll • MEN'S TENNIS 
Strides made, but Irish 'anxious' to start season 
Observer Staff Repon

Belles fall to Dutch 
The 1996 Men's Tennis season By SHANNON RYAN to their weak passing skills. kicks off today as Notre Dame Sports Writer "I cannot stress it enough," hosts the tenth annual Tom 
she commented. "When we Fallon Invitation. 
Aggressive plays, great block­pass the ball consistently, we Eighteen colleges including ing, and powerful serves usually have such a better offense." five Big Ten schools, Colorado, add up to a win. However, Saint The Belles head coach also Nebraska, Baylor, and Miami Mary's volleyball team could not feels the team was lacking in the will descend on South Bend to combine these elements to deaf­area of communication, an area do battle in what should be a eatl0-2 Hope College. which Saint Mary's is usually great event for spectators. 
After coming off some tough strong. She feels the back row Notre Dame junior Jakup losses in the Ohio Northern did not do their job in verbaliz­Pietrowski will sit out of the Tournament and to Bethel ing. action in order to take advan­College, the Belles were hoping "I didn't hear or see anything tage of a prized invitation to the to terminate their three game getting done," she remarked. IT A National Clay Courts in losing streak last night. The Hope was also willing to take Baltimore next weekend. high expectations from their 8-2 the risks that Saint Mary's shied Otherwise, the Irish are at full beginning have dwindled as the away from. The Flying Dutch strength -healthy, and ready to team collected their seventh loss chased down every ball and come out of the blocks with a 11-15, 15-12, 10-15, and 5-15 took the chances needed to win. strong showing. against the Flying Dutch. "We're not a gut defense," "We have four new faces to 
Photo courtesy of Sports Information 

Hope played aggresively from Schroeder-Biek said. "We play show off and some returning 
Junior Danny Rothschild has added punch to both his serve and
the first serve as did Saint too safely and that worries me." players who have made big 
ground game, and as a result will assume duties in "B" singles.
Mary's. SMC controlled the Hope remained determined strides in their games since last 
"Ryan is a big server who impact player in our lineup.
serving and forced Hope to con­the entire match whereas Saint year," said Irish coach Bob takes the ball early and goes for Similarly, Eric has added punchcentrate against the powerful Mary's gave up in the third Bayliss. "While we'll certainly his shots," said Notre Dame to his own game. They will give blocks. game. The Belles lost by a miss Jakub's presence this assistant coach and former All-us great depth low in the line­Acccording to SMC coach Julie deficit of five in the third game weekend, it's a great honor for American and professional play-up."
Schroeder-Biek, "We've been and ten in the final fourth game. him to be in the top 32 college er Andy Zurcher. "Trent is very In the "D" flight Notre Dameworking hard on our blocking. Despite losing 1-3, SMC has players at the Clay Courts. It quick and athletic with great looks to seniors Ron Mencias,It's nice to see that it has paid not altogether thrown in the also creates opportunities for volleying instincts and a pene-and Marco Magnano for leader­ofT." The team compiled a total towel. They are looking for­some other players who are anx­trating forehand." ship and junior Vijay Freemanof 23 blocks, averaging 5 per ward to improving their weak ious to show what they can do." 
In the "C" flight, the Irish will and freshman Rob Warn for hal­game. Ashley Dickerson re­areas in rigorous practices. The The Irish will post a lineup of display their depth with fresh-ance.
flected their tough practices, Belles are hoping to utilize their Ryan Simme and Brian man Matt Horsley, sophomore "Mencias could make a big dif­leading the team with 9 blocks. strengths to defeat St. Xavier Patterson in "A" flight singles. 
Andy Warford, and junior Eric ference to our team this year,"Betsy Connolly and Meg Kelly Tuesday afternoon. "I am anxious for Ryan to re­Enloe. said Bayliss. "His quickness canalso assisted in temporarily si­Fortunately, the team refuses gain the form he had as a fresh­
"Matt has made major im-be intimidating. Freeman
lencing the Flying Dutch in the to give up their high spirits. man and sophomore and then provements in his serve since serves as well as anyone wesecond game with their blocks. They are anticipating the return improve on it," said Bayliss. "He the Nationals in August," said have. Magnano has been an in­The Belles, however, strug­of Kelly Meyer and turning their wants to play professionally Bayliss. "He shows extraordi-credibly positive co-captain.
gled in many areas against losing streak around. after graduating in May. This nary poise for a freshman. Switching to a longer racket has Hope College in Angela Athletic "I know we'll beat St. Xavier," will give him a read on where he Warford has improved as much helped his game. Warn is a veryFacility last night. freshman setter Courtney Love stands and what needs to be as anyone I've ever coached. He determined 'tough out' who hasPassing is the key to improve­replied confidently. "We've had done. Patterson has made great will eventually become an a devastating lefty forehand." 
ment for the Belles. In fact, enough losing this past week. strides, adding punch to his Schroeder-Biek credits their loss We're ready for a big win!" serve and flattening out his ground strokes. He'll do well for 
us this year." 
lot at7:30 a.m. The next prac­• SPORTS BRIEFS playing:'keet at Loftus parking 
Look for junior Danny Challenge U Fitness -Some tice will .be .. on Monday, 
Rothschild and freshmen Ryan 


@ATTENTION
classes are atill open. Please September 23. at 9 p.m. in 
Schire and Trent Miller to score call.RecSports for details. If Loftus. <::a.~ J)anielle Gray at. 
big for Notre Dame in the "B" 

[ Quality Hair Care J 
you are' not able .. to attend for. 6 o:t;'+vfegan Kennedy11 singles draw. Rothschild isanrreason, pleas~ contact the. 6 Yvltll q1JeStio~. ''' 
much improved over a year ago, 
Just Call & Say You

*Special Haircut Rates For
RecSports office. so that WeJit All ~s fnterhall football 
having added punch to both his 
Are A Student

College Students
may give the spot to someone · games .~. Sunday have been 
serve and ground game. 
256-9585 For

*Haircuts For Only $7.00 
else. · rescbedttled for Nov; 3. Plus, 
Sachire and Miller were highly 
Appointment

There will be a field hockey all men.'s football and soccer 
(With Student /D)
recruited high school players 
Mon.-Fri. 9:00-8:00 

game this Saturday, gamef(have beenmoved up a 
who chose Notre Dame over 
* Shampoo, Cut, & Blow Dry 
September 21, at Wheaton halfhour. with the first game 
some of the better tennis pro­
Sat. 9:00-5:00

Only $11.00 
College. Anyone interested in starting at 12:30. 
grams in the country. 

USED FURNITURE
Welcome Bacl~ Students!
Celebrate 

! ~ Household Items -Clothing
SALON 
• ® The Salvation Army Thrift Store



a friend's 

506 South Main Street





r-:--------,

1$5.00 Off Full Set 1 
South Bend, IN 4660 1

NOUVEAU 
Store Hours

birthday 
10%

I $2.50 Off Fill-In I 
Monday-Saturday
. 
Student & Faculty
#288-2539
An AVEDAa 
9:00a.m. -6:00p.m.

I with coupon only I 
Discount With I.D.
Concept Salon


with 

I Good through 10/96 I 
University of Notre
L--------.J
We've moved to the corner of Ironwood and South Bend Avenue­
a special 

Dame International 
Just 1/2 mile from campus! 
Study Program at 
1733 N. Ironwood 277-6767
Observer ad. 

Notre Dame Australia 
1997,98 

Information Meeting with
Look 
ERASMUS BOOKS 


who~s uhidina~~ Professor Mike Etzel 
• 
Used books bought and sold 

• 
25 categories of Books 

•25,000 
Hardback and Paperback books 



on her 21st!!
in stock 

Monday, September 23, 1996
•Out-of-Print 
Search Service: $2.00 

•Appraisals 
large and small 



Love~ 126 DeBartolo 
Open noon to six 
4:30PM
Tuesday through Sunday 

The Gang
1027 E. Wayne 

Sophomores in Colleges of Arts and Letters and
South Bend, IN 46617 

Business Administration are welcome!
(219) 232-8444 


I , 
The Observer· SPORTS page 19 
• MEN's IH FOOTBALL 
Fisher's goal: Repeat 
Observer Slaff Rcpon 
In may have taken them three overtimes, 
but Fisher Hall won last year's interhall 
ehampionship, and is looking to do much of 
tho same this year. 
The season looks promising for the defending ehamps from Fisher Hall. Despito their lofty achievements, this squad is looking to improve on last year's 6-2 record, as this year's squad returns the lion's share of last year's starters. 
On offense. the Wave return 4 of their 5 down linemen such as Sean Lynch and Brian Griffin. The man running the show will again be the sophomore-sensation, quurterbaek Alfredo Rodriguez, who looks as if he has improved his arm strength. This can only help Fisher's pass offense to continue the romp they began last year. 
The running gume shouldn't miss a beat with Mike Hock taking over at tailback and Greg Hr.gan at l'ullhaek. 
On tho other side of the ball Fisher also looks stellar as the same group of talented upperclassmen who drive the offense will run tho dof'enso. Wateh out for Sean Lynch here. who is always looking to put some serious hurt on opposing running backs. 
Although the Fisher Green Wave is sure to be the favorite to win the Gold division, one intriguing possibility has to be the Angry Mob of O'Neil. Consisting of former mem· bers of the once-powerful Grace team. these new tmtrants into the Gold division should shake things up a bit. 
Fresh off their dedication weekend and s1woral strong practices, the team looks to crush Alumni on Sunday. Led by eaptains Duve Butz (QB), Jim Hosenbach (OT, DT) and Shane I.uzadder (LB. FB), O'Neill should contend for the interhall title. 
The intense couching of Troy Phillips and Damian Peters is invaluable. They have dedicated time and ef1'ort and are working hard with a focus on the title. Freshman Eric Hovan will spearhead the running attack with excellent speed. Freshman 

Aaron Yoder and sophomore Rajit Basu will 
be Dave Butz's primary targets in the wide 
receiver positions. The offensive line is 
anchored by the brothers Shannon, Jim 
Rosenbach, Splinter, and tight end sensa­
tion, Brian Gaffney. 
On the defensive side of the ball, middle linebacker Shane Luzadder will distribute plenty of hurt. The defense of O'Neill is a Pro-Bowl unit with a physical defensive line and a dangerous secondary. At the Interhall jamboree last Sunday with Fisher, Flanner and Carroll-O'Neill proved to be a force to be reckoned with. 
If you want to talk about reversal of for­tunes, start talking about St. Edwards. The Steds looked shaky over the past couple of years, but this year-'s team should be a totally different story. Last season, St. Ed's always wondered whether they would be able to field a team after losing many play­ers to injuries. This year, the team is won­dering if they wiJI be able to make it to the playoffs. 
The return of over half of last year's team is a great improvement for the start of the season. The strong turnout of the freshman have helped to revitalize and improve the make-up of the team. 
"l cannot believe the numbers that have been showing up for practice," senior Mark Weber said. "It is totally different from last year." 
The improved spirit and turnout of more players than all of the past couple years has shown that the squad really plans to improve their record this year. The team is led by seniors Weber and Matt Garlock. Some of the veterans have voiced concerns about injuries depleting the team, but with improved reserves they will actually have replacements for injured players. 
"This year's team is the best I have seen in all my years at St. Ed's," evaluated junior Scott Bishop after the squad's (rrst scrim­mage. 
The running game should tum out be the work horse of St. Edwards' game plan. 

Gamecocks look to go out in style in final year 
Observer Slaff Rcpon 
As the men's interhall football sea­
son opens this Sunday, one cannot 
help but check out Sunday's game 
between the 'Cocks and Off-Campus, 
which provides an interesting twist of 
events. The heart and soul of last 
year's runner-up now play for the 
off-campus team. 
Energized by a cast of new faces and sense of history, the Flanner guys are not content to play out the hall's final season quietly. An effec­tive offensive backfield and a solid linebacking corps are expected to lead the Flanner charge. 
The offensive backfield seems to be the most promising aspect of the Flanner attack. Dave Lichota. one of Flanner's few returning starters and one of it's three captains, is expected to handle most of the rushing duties at tailback. Newcomer Erik Himan will also contribute to the ground game as starting fullback. 
Flanner's passing game is well-bal­anced with the addition of Mike Daigler at quarterback. 
"He throws the ball extremely well and has remarkable composure on the field," according to Bordas. 
While the offensive line remains questionable, tri-captain Bob Kampeau and Mike Girsch are expected to take charge of the block­ing corps. 
Defensively, Flanner's linebacking unit will set the standard. Tri-cap· tain Brett Galley and Steve Walter, transfers from Stanford and Morrissey respectively, bring much needed experience to the Gamecocks' defense. Rookie Robert Miyakawa will complete the linebacking corps and has been described as "promis­ing." 
Standing in the Cocks' way will be 
many of their former teammates. 
Running the show for Off-Campus 
will be former Flanner QB Scott 
Lupo. Blocking for him will be the 
noted pair of "Big" Joe Lang and 
Anthony "Drags" Dragone. 
Lupo should have all the time in the world to throw, and when he does, most likely he will be looking for his favorite target from last year, J.P. Fenningham. Leading the way for an intense defense will be Rob Murray. 
Despite these difficult obstacles in Sunday's season-opener, Bordas is confident of his team's chances to repeat last year's successes. 
"We've got a lot of new faces and we're not the fastest or biggest. This 
-
is our last year. we made to the championship last year and we're going to make it again this year." 
Another interesting matchup in the Blue division is the Morrisey-Dillon contest. Although only 3-2 last sen­son, the Manorites feel they have u ~egitimate chance at this year's title. 
Many key players return from last year's solid team. Quarterback John Polk and running back Mark Tate lead the way. Despite having powers Flanner and Off-campus in their divi­sion, they are still confident that they will follow up on last year's success. 
Dillon is a team that has a world of promise and a bundle of unanswered questions. The reason for these questions arise from graduation of 
l1 
last year's stars. Also, former quar­terback Andy Sgro has resigned his position in order to take on the coaching duties full-time. 
The freshman are the reason for optimism. At least five or six will make an impact on the team, most 
notably 365-pound Ociel Castelan. 
Castelan and the rest of the line, "still intact" from last year according to Sgro, will be block­ing for speedy tailback Greg Kuzma. 
Entertainment Electronics Co. 
"You break it, we'll fix it!!" 
Car & Home Stereos VCRs • TVs • Camcorders CD Players • PCs 
call2SS-1172 3509 N. Grape Road (at Classic Stereo) 
hours: Mon • Frl: I 1-5 Sat: 10-2 
Be part of a great Methodist Fellowship 

Worship with us at: ~ 
Olivet African Methodist Episcopal Church 
719 N. Notre Dame Avenue 
Sunday Morning Worship Service 
11:00 AM. 
Transportation provided. Will pick up at the library circle. 
Call 232-1563 by 8:00AM on Sunday mornings. 
Rev. Lenore Williams-White, Pastor 

The office of Academic Services for Student­Athletes is hiring tutors for the following sub­jects. If you are interested in tutoring and have demonstrated proficiency in the following subjects, please stop by 309 Main Building or call Jean, 1-5585 for information. 
Accounting (All Levels) BA 230 (Stats) Finance (All Levels) Marketing (All Levels) 
BA 240 (Computers) Spanish Writing Engineering 

entertainment where ifyou don't like what's on one floor you can 
keynote address: Robert Morris 
go party on the next floor. Two dance floors, DJ's on both levels. 
sculpture panel: moderator
PRESENTS: 
Austin Collins
, 

professor ofsrulp!Ure, University of Notre Dame
PHAT FRIDAYS 
Terrence Dempsey 
director, Museum ofContemporary Religious Art, St. Lou~ University
OFF CAMPUS PARTY NIGHT 
Robert Haywood
professor ofart history, University of Notre Dame 
Hold your off-campus parties at Jazzman's on Phat Friday's. 
Kathym Hixson 
senior editor, New Art Examiner
Avoid eviction notices. 

Gregory Knight
Call 233-8505 to schedule your off campus party. 
d1ief rurator, Chicago Cultural Center 
Lynne Warren 

rurator, Special Projects, Museum of Contemporary Art, Chirngo
21 and over with proper ID Doors open from 9PM to 3AM 

Saturday, September 21, 1996 1 • 5 p.m., The Snite Museum ofArt
Uniform Security provided both inside and outside 
free and open to the public 
m~M.-li:>~~·~~.x::<~:.t.~.:'>.-c.::::::w.::::w~~~'>r.:~::«~J:<,t.::::::~.:®.~::t=:N<.1W~~'.'f:·
fREE )UMBO HOT DOG WITH CHIPS WITH THIS AD BEFORE 11 PM 
1 PER PERSON WHEN PRESENl ED UPON ENTR)" 
The multi-level nite club offering the best in off-campus fun and 
page 20 
Volleyball 
continued from page 24 
leather form the court at Michigan. Efforts have been concentrated on wing positions covering tips and dinks effec­tively and consistently, a vul­nerability frequently taken ad­vantage of lately. 
The Irish have beeh forced to pull together as numerous in­juries and defensive weakness threatened the team. Intensifying their blocking game under the direction of blocking coach Jim McLaughlin, formerly head of the University of Southern California men's team, has given them the com­petitive edge at the net. With an average of 3.5 blocks per game, the Fighting Irish have held their opponent's attacking success to a stifling 13.4%. 
Brown has had her team at 

-
their best against lesser oppo­nents as they have won their last 50 against unranked teams. 
Tonight the Irish will hope to continue that dominance over the Wolverines whom the team has taken the last five contests. However Giovanazzi is poised for an upset as he returns four starters from a squad that went 19-15 one year ago. Junior set­ter Linnea Mendoza orches­trates the attack that will test that Irish defense. 
The squad will have a busy weekend as they will then host instate rival Purdue. 
If you see news happening, call The Observer at 1-5323 

. ' 
Coincidently, Purdue's head coach Joey Vrazel and Brown have some familiarity with each other. Brown was an assistant coach while Vrazel was a play­er on the US national team from 1989-1991. 
Vrazel will hope to overcome her former coach, but that seems to be a high mountain to climb as the Boilermakers re­turn four starters from a team that dropped 20 last season while picking up eight. 
Senior captain Jenny Birkner has consistently been the driv­ing force behind the Notre Dame offense with a team high 93 kills. Mary Leffers has stepped into the limelight and led the team with blocks and places second in kills. The freshman sensation has left her mark on more than the ball as she steps into fifteenth place in the nation in blocking. 
Surprisingly enough, the re­cent attention hasn't gone to the youngsters head. 
When asked about her national ranking, she respond­ed with "stats don't say much." As far as she is concerned, there could be a million block­ers out there doing a better job but not getting blocking oppor­tunities due to tipping and weak hitting. 
As the Irish do battle this weekend they hope that their outstanding serving continues 
The Observer· SPORTS 
as they have accumulated more service aces than errors, 78 to 
57. Angie Harris' jump serve can be one of the most domi­nating serves in the nation as she has amassed 19 aces. Sophomore Lindsay Treadwell has quietly amassed 12 aces of her own while J aimie Lee pro­vided consistency as she only has three service errors while playing in every game. 
After this weekend the Irish will face something that they have not faced yet this year, a break. Due to the cancellation of the Alumnae Game September 27, the team will next be in action on October 1 against a top-notch Ball State team. 
This break arrives at an excellent time for Brown's team as it will give them a chance to lick their wounds. Harris may sit out one of this weekend's matches in order to rest her knees. 
Jaimie Lee is still trying to get used to wearing the mask due to her broken nose. 
But, most importantly, junior setter Carey May might be available for the next match. May was the only true setter coming into the season but a dislocated shoulder has kept her to a role of cheerleader. This past week in practice, May was able to set for the first time since the injury. 


:::::; 
. 
<
.
I~ 
·tb~:::~:::::~w­

Ev£>ning R£>c£>ption 
Tu£>sday, Octobf.>r 15, 1996 -5:00-6:30 pm La FortunE.> Stud£>nt C£>nt£>r ·-Fostf.>r Room 

The Observer/Rob Finch Middle blocker Jennifer Rouse and outside hitter Jenny Birkner hope to help the Irish regain their winning form. 

TREK -CANNONDALE -ROLLERBLADE 
Full Service Department Pick-up & Delivery (call for appointment) 
Mon-Fri 
Saturday 
t;j-~~~~ 
lnt£>rvi£>ws W£>dn£>sday, OctobN 16, 1996 
10:00-7:00 10:00-5:00 


.. WATERSTONE @' CONSULTING 
Business Consulting ·-Advanced Technology ·-Progressive Attitude
II . 
I 
For more information call 847.699.9797 Ext: 231 ·-http:#'www.waterston£>.com · 
I , 
Friday, September 20, 1996 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 21 


The campus wide 
Openina of '*he 
School Year 
Mass 
will take place on Sunday, September 22nd at 4:00 PM at the Joyce Center. 
For those who will be unable to participate at that time, there will be alternate liturgies offered at: 
Fischer Graduate Residences 9:30 PM Morrissey Hall I 0:30 PM Zahm Hall I0:30 PM 
The Observer/ 
Midfielders Scott Wells and Tony Capasso, along with the rest of their Irish teammates, hope to be celebrating after two wins this weekend. 
TRINITY I__ SH DRNCE COMPRNY 
ORMHSR 
ACeltic Od usseu 
It's ever~ thing ~ou'd expect -and like nothing 
: >.;,.!4 ~~Y:-'~P$:=J}:.\t'i~%'J«»'?. ~xq;::"~· 

Saturda~. September 21 BP.M. O'Laughlin Auditorium 
Tickets: $5 {Students), $16 {Adults) on sole at the Saint Mary's Box Office, O'Loughlin Auditorium, Saint Mary's College 9om-
5pm, Monday-Friday. M O~AU Viso, MasterCard, and Discover orders C'C: 'TC:D accepted by phone ot219/284-4626 IC:::.1 • IC:::. 'discounts for senior citizens and groups O'Laughlin Auditorium 
which has surrendered 12 g~als in five games, will pro-The Observer • SPORTS 

~ivalry 
continued from page 24 
offense we should do well." 
UConn returned the majority of its starters; in fact, they only lost one to graduation. One of the key performers for the Huskies will be senior forward Kerry Connors. Connors is known for her speed and ability to finish. The Irish are well aware of Connors, and they are looking for sophomore Shannon Boxx to shut her down. Boxx is known for her aggressive play and tremendous play out of the air. She could be the key to shutting down UConn's offense. 
Another key matchup will also fall in the midfield. Senior midfielder Cindy Daws will mark UConn's Tammy Barnes. Daws will try to shut down the Huskies' commander in the center. 
The other pair to watch will 

be senior forward Amy VanLaecke against the Huskies' sweeper junior Sara Whelan. Whelan gave the Irish some trouble last year. She is known for her spark offensively from the back. VanLaecke is looking 
snuff out any offensive opportunities that Whelan might try to start. 
UConn not only has numerous talented players, but also they are a team known for their speed. The Huskies also have explosive forwards, according to Petrucelli. 
"The strengths are their returning players and they are very aggressive offensively," said senior Irish captain Cindy Daws about the Huskies. "The nation has overlooked them, so they are looking for respect." 
According to senior goalkeep­er Jen Rehola, the strength of the Huskies also can be found in their attack. 
"They are fast, and they play with three up front which we are not use to seeing," she said. 
The Irish reverted back to their man-to-man defense which won them the NCAA 
The Observer/Mike Ruma Forward Amy Vanlaecke will be matched up with sweeper Sara Whelan, who will try to shut down the opportunistic Vanlaecke. 
Championship last year, from the zone which they had used earlier in the season. In their first game with the old defen­sive set-up, the Irish looked strong. They decisively beat their opponent, the Indiana Hoosier, S-0. 
Freshman sweeper Jen Grubb had this to say about the new defense, "With the zone defense, mistakes could easily be made, and we just could not afford to make those mistakes because all of the games are important." 
"We have something that was successful for us in the past," said Petrucelli about the switch in defensive play for the Irish. "We feel comfortable with it, so why not fall back on something that won us the NCAA Championship last year." 
The Irish feel that if they dominate the key matchups and get a quick start then they might gain another victory over the Huskies and intensify the rivalry. 
Before they can solely focus on UConn, they face St. John's today. The challenge for the Irish in this game will be play­ing the Red Storm on their home turf. The team have yet to play a game on turf this sea­son. 
"We are not overlooking St. John's," said Petrucelli. "They play well at home. Also they play on turf, which is a differ­ent environment for us." 
The Red Storm returns~even starters, and are looking to avenge last year's trouncing by the Irish, 9-0. 
"Starting fast and playing well in the beginning are the keys," said Sobrero about com­ing out successful this week­end. "We need to play with confidence." 
After a tough weekend on the road, the Irish will be playing at Alumni Field next weekend against Marquette and Georgetown. 
page 22 
Soccer 
continued from page 24 
Freshman of the Year Bobby Rhine is also a scoring threat, and goaltender Matt Chavlovich has been tough on the opposition, compiling a 
1.02 goals-against-average. 
The Pirates of Seton Hall have been less successful than Connecticut so far this season, as they march into Alumni Field Sunday afternoon with a 2-3 record and an 0-1 mark in conference play. 
After losing scoring machine Mike Magarinos to graduation last season, the Pirates have relied on forwards Frank Collado and Peter Seavo for most of their offense. Collado leads the Pirate crew with goals and 12 points, and tal­ented freshman Seavo is right behind him with 10 points. The weak Pirate defense, vide an opportunity for the Irish to crank up their scoring production, which has been rather low thus far this season. 

"We've been struggling a lit­tle bit lately, but we're not overly concerned," commented forward Ryan Turner, who missed all of last season with a backinjury. "We've been get­ting enough scoring opportuni­ties, and we know it (scoring) 
· will come." 
The return of Turner and in­juries to Scott Wells and high­ly-touted freshman Ryan Cox have complicated the complex­ion of the Irish up front, forc­ing head coach Mike Berticelli to tinker around with various forward combinations. 
"There have been so many different combinations (at for­ward)," sajd Turner. "It takes time to learn how to play the position with someone. We just need to get some team chemistry going, and we'll be alright." 
Two conference victories this weekend wouldn't hurt either. 
On that Sunday, there will be NO I I :45 AM Mass or 7: IS PM Vespers in the Basilica. 

(1\MPUSMINISTRY 


MIXED MEDIA 
MOTHER GOOSE & GRIMM 
The Observer 

Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompany­ing form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
JACK OHMAN 

MIKE PETERS 

r---------------------------~ur---------------------------~ 
BUT LET'S BE HONEST, USERBOY, n: YOU NEED TO BE. TOLD 11-\/l.T I YOU'!\£. TOO STUPID TO USE T\-\IS PRODUCT. 
\ 
54 Eagerly accept 56 Muff· 
58 lngred1ent in a Bangalore torpedo 

59 C1udad Bolivaf'·s nver 62 Film developer's t:;.;--t--+----, 
deadline, maybe 64 Hunter's d1sh 65 Side dish made 
w1th Parmesan 66 T1me to look one's best? 67 Voting no 
DOWN 
t Rockies resort 2 Begin to nag 3 Work that may 
go uncredited 4 Dr.'s grp. s Lots of money 6 Cabinet 
department 7 Student's 
dream class 8 Rabbit, e.g. 9 Descendant 
of the Dryopithecus 10 They're not 
quite up to par 1 t Move erratically 12 One way to think 13 Musical form 
with a recurring theme 14 Allendorf is a suburb of it 

> 
z 
~ ~ 
I u "' 
, ~ 
.
.. 
0 Enclosed is $70 for one academic year 
0 Enclosed is $40 for one semester 
Name ____________________________________________ Address __________________________________ City-------State ____ Zip______ 
1-\~VE. YOU 

I'M UP TO
f\EVIEWE.D 

T\-IE. CHAPTER
THE. ORAH 

TITLED
'(E.T !' 

"OUI-\."
I 
21 Star of an 1850's Barnum tour 
30 Business V I P. 
32 European 
capital 
34 Supplement 
36 Ore-Ida Foods 
brand 37 Hold your horses!" 38 Updated clunker 40 ·gg Luftballons" pop group 

Answers to any three clues in this puzzle 
are available by touch-tone phone 
1-900-420·5656 (75c per m1nute). 
Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years (800) 762-1665 
Make checks payable to: and mail to: 
-----------------------;-­
r--------~----~--~---~------­
Friday, September 20, 1996 The Observer • TODAY page 23 
YOUR HOROSCOPE JEANE DIXON 
TINA THE TECHNICAL WRITER 
TO lt-ISE.I\T A 
COLUMN, CLICK THE COLUMN 
lNSERT MENU. 
~ 

IIAPI'Y BJI{TIIIJA Y! II\ TilE NEXT YEAR OF \Ol'J{ I.IFE: Spend nHH'L' time v. ith tho,t• L·ln'L''I to your hcw1. You ne~d h1 hl' llliHl' pen:eptivc where your hll,lllL''-' (t\StKiate~ are concerned (jj, L' t:ill'l'· ful thought to other penrk·s motives. 1-inanci<il pre"urc'' 11 Ill fade early in l'l'J7. Almost <UI> thin!,! could hap[J<:n when forme• nllli<Lntic partners ;u·e briefly united. Sudden 
succcs' could dramaticllh chaJH!l' a 
relationship. The right cc;mhmation of diet and exercise will ha1c lOll looking your best in nntimc. · 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON TillS DAY: movie star Soph1a Loren, hockey player Guy LaFleur. comedian Anne Meara. new"icao.;ter Pia Lindstrom. 
ARIES <t-.1arch ~1-Apnl IY). Revise a budget nr sa\·ing~ plan. Personal and profe,~mnal rclatwn­
ship' intensify. If married. find out your mate's true needs. Group actll'· itics _enjoy favorable inlluenccs this 
CVCiliiH!. 
TAliRUS !April 20-May ~01: A romantic attraction ha' a ~real chance for longevny. You sta7Jd to 
win a lc!!al hattiL" New 01 farawuv 
contacts -will hright~n your outlook. Share your expertl\e with ~ oung 
people. 
GEMINI <Ma) ~ 1-June ~OJ: Budget your money e\'Cil if you rnu~t take a rainchcck on ccrlatn 
travel or ;;ol'ial plans. You 11 ill not benefit from ddihcratel) pnll okmg someone. Work hard. 
CANCEH t.lum· 21-.lul) 221: A crov..d scene could wear vou nut. Pace yourself. Gi1·e thanb io people near and far who have helped you 111 the past. A ne11 locale is pl~a,ing: -"1 arc the price,. 
LEO <July 2.1-Aug. 221: Take note of your dream>: 1he1· are send· 
mg you a strong lllt\"'i:l~l' Ana111ing 
• OF INTEREST Gorch Games Room Pool League: Initial meeting (party} on Sunday will be held at 7:30p.m. in the Gorch Games Room, LaFortune basement. Free 
pizza, pop, and pool will be available. For information call the Games Room at 631-7376. 
Opening Mass of the Academic Year and All­Campus Picnic will take place on Sunday at the Joyce Center. The Mass is at 4 p.m. with picnic to follow. Both dining halls and Grab 'n Go will be closed during the event. 
The Juggler Magazine is now accepting poetry, prose, and art work. Submissions will be accepted in 356 O'Shaughnessey until October 27th. 
•MENU 
Notre Dame 
North 4Jb South Fried Cod/Fried Clams Manhattan Clam Chowder Chicken Gumbo BBQ Rib Sandwich Stuffed Shells Cajun CWcken Breast Sandwich Chicken Acapulco Pumpkin Pie 
Saint Maris Roast Loin of Pork Rotini Casserole Chopped Beef Steaks Cinnamon Apples 

Wanted: Reporters, photographers and editors. Join The Observer staff. 
The Observer 
P.O. BoxQ Notre Dame, IN 46556 
d /Oil!-!·\UII,~..dll !,!11,!1 1\l'l/h ~Ull \\Ill 
fnl'ltd,lup or r~o.·~o.·l,_:!llllltlll l~tnwutn· 'l'eb. ynu out '' hl'll Y'1u lea.., I l'\ 11L'l't II. 
\'JR(;() I ,\II~ 2\ ~l'pt 221: 
l·nenuslups are 1hc ''') 10 'eep1ng 
you on t1ac·L ~pcnd111g a lot of lllllllC)' 011 ~I llC\\ 11\lllillllll' J1i.ll'lllCI' l'Ollld he a lnlsl,l,l' 'I ,l,l' tllln~s slowly. i{eleal ;our plans f;,i 
launching a 1w11 1''".1'''1 J.IBJU (Scpl 21-tkt 221: Two heath arc hei!L't th<~n onl' nn\\.. Reach111g an a~lt,.'l'lllCnt wtth your lnencJs or u spc,·,,d group will he a relief. Shanng a lmanc~;tl r"k pays off. A wcll-chost•n g•ft advances a romantic rclatiolt'lllp. SCORPIO llkt. 2.1-Nm. 21): l1mcly wlks and trips will bomt your \Uc<.:c~~ rail: tn hu\tllc\~. Con­ftding in \Iran~~..·,,'' not a good idea. You aIread> ln11 e plenly of support lrom >llUI lol'ed one,. l'ut romance hac' int<> vour life. SA<;JTTAHil.·S <Nm. 22-Dec. 21 ): Not a good day to get involved 
in somt•onc rJ ...c· .. pcr~.;onal hu~ine~~. Pa11icipating in g1oup activities will h<xlSt your popul.lrlt). Spons events cn1ny favorable 1niluences. 
CAPRICOH'I: like 22-Jan. ll)i: The cmphas'' no\\ "on meet· 1ng new people. Surrender to a play­ful ur~e. Stron~ bonds arc formed when \-ou and~~ <~ur children have 
fun to!!ethcr. 
AQliAIHl'S 1.lan. 211-Fcb. IX): Rcsoll ing a tnc'' 1"ue will not he easy Postpone an in-tkpth discu,. '!On until alter till' 11 c·c·i-cml. A l'llld 
precipitating an .tr~umcnt nr legal 
action. 
PISCES (1-c·h l'l-March 201: TocJay marl-s the beginning of an 1111ponant relall<~nship. Circum­'tancc... ~t..~ad \'Oll t1) 'j,u an intl~re~t­
111~ new lncaic l.1~htheanccJ festi1·i· tit:, th:light lovl·d •~Ill'" of .ill agt'\. 

I 
• I I 
I 
41 Western tribe 46 Charlatan's fear 47 Kind of greens 48 Spice tree 49 "God Save the 
King" writer Henry-­soQuill 
52 Rio­(African coastal region) 
55 Entity 57 Answer Abbr. 60 Bus. concerns 61 Minn. neighbor 63 Yoo---­
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 
1 Obiecl ot a poliCe hunt a Around-town expense 15 Strength 16 H1slonc NASA miSSIOnS 
17 D1shes denved from the Nahuatl Indians 
10 Parts of the world 19 Palmdrom1c preposition 20 Equ1valent of -ness 21 Chopin work 
22 Certain commuter plane, for short 
24 W1th a willingness to proceed 
28 Put on 29 W1ll1am K1dd's cnme 31 Creme de Ia 
creme 33 "Minus" poml 34 Plus apoint 35 How many 
diseases end 39 Protection, of 
sorts 42 Slapp1ng site 43 Do some f1lm 
work 44 Dweller on the 
Volga 45 Sir, abroad 47 Unit of Chinese 
phonetics 48 Med1cal meas 5t "Stately 
pleasure-dome" site 53 Perry bailie site 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

AGE SIA P P L ECillO ER 
P 0 N T P A U L R E V E AE 
0 D E L E T~ Y S D 0 C
HOVE ~TITra·
A
I L E S A N D Q U 0 T E 
I'D'OI'P~t A T u All
S~+p 
0 
P A H H 
I 
S 

-f-:-b 
ES PEAT 

c o E o s s v to•"E Lrc-Tn 
A P T D I ~T R Y 0 N S 
23 Scoops 

c HAINIC Es AR"Ic R EA
25 Imported wme 

T I G H T R A C E S E A R L 26 "The Sacred I T SIU SIE L E s s E L s E Wood" essay1st 
S N P I T S E AA

*1WIA D Ep iM~
D~R 

• 
.. 

SPORTS Weekend 
I  
I  
f  
I •  
t  
r  
I  
I  
i  
;JUlltYBAll  
Wolverines poised  
for Irish upset  
By JOE CAVATO and coach Greg Giovanazzi, an SARAH NELSON assistant coach with Notre  
Sports W rirers Dame's coach Debbie Brown  
on the 1990 United States  
The Notre Dame women's National Team.  
volleyball team set off to Ann Brown's 6-3 squad has been  
Arbor, Michigan for today's working on their defensive  
game against the University of strategy and execution this  
Michigan Wolverines. The week and hopes to save the  
Irish will be greeted with a special welcome from U of M see VOLLEYBALL I page 20  


Junior outside hitter Angie Harris leads the team in aces with 19. 
at Texas, September 21, 11 a.m.
-at St. John's, today, 7:30p.m.
I • 
(•'­vs. Connecticut, ~ today, 7:30p.m.
(.., 
UConn-ND rivalry intensifies 
By KATHLEEN LOPEZ Sports Writer 
Last year a dawning of a new rivalry came about for the women's soccer team. The Irish suffered a close regular season loss to the University of Connecticut, 4-5. Then they met again twice in post season play, with the Irish gaining the initial victory to claim the Big East Championship, 1-0. The final spark that initiated the rivalry was when they knocked the Huskies out of the NCAA tournament. 
"There is a little bit of rivalry, between us," said junior Kate Sobrero. "We definitely want to win this one, decisively." 
This is a big weekend for the Irish, according to head coach Chris Petrucelli. The women's soccer team faces the fifth­ranked UConn Huskies on their home field on Sunday. 
"The Huskies are a solid team," said Petrucelli. "They are a team with lots of ex­perience." 
On the other hand, Huskies head coach Len Tsantiris, did not have much to say about the matchup. 
When asked about how he was preparing for the Irish, "We don't focus on matching up specifically to anyone," said 
at Michigan, @) today, 7:00p.m. 
The Observer/Mike Ruma 

Senior midfielder Cindy Daws and her Irish teammates rated second in the nation, take on fifth-ranked UConn in a weekend dash. 
Tsantiris. "We.just play." we are looking to exploit is the 
The Huskies are a team with freshman goalkeeper," said few flaws. One of the few Petrucelli. "Another weakness weaknesses could be found in for them is that we can score their starting goalkeeper, who on them, so if we can stop their is a freshman. 
"One of the weaknesses that see RIVALRY I page 22 
• Men's IH football begins Sunday see page 20 



Catholic Invitational 
•Braves rolling to division tide 
1€& today 
see page 15 





Friday, September 20, 1996 Irish Extra· STATISTICALLY SPEAKING 
·"f.· ,.,. ·:/~@f 

·::.:y::·. .
F I GH''I$'N 
1 2 3 4 Tot 14 17 10 8 49 Denson 0 0 0 7 7 Edwards 
Farmer KICKOFF RETURNS No Avg TO Lg TEAMSTATS NO Dpp Mosley Rossum 1 99.0 1 99 First Downs 53 18 Mosley 1 21.0 0 21 Total Yards 893 329 PASSING Comp AH Pet Yds TO lnt Lg 
Total Yards per game 446.5 164.5 Powlus 38 64 59.4 454 1 1 48 INTERCEPTIONS No Total offensive plays 166 97 Jackson 1 2 50.0 6 0 0 6 Edison 1 Avg. yards per play 5.4 3.4 
Rushing yards 433 46 RECEIVING Rec Yds Avg TO Lg DEFENSE T A Tot FC FR PBU Sac Rushing yards per game 216.5 23.0 Johnson 8 144 18.0 0 48 Tatum 8 6 14 1 0 1 1 Rushing plays 100 49 Chryplewicz 8 77 9.6 0 17 Dansby 6 6 12 0 1 0 1 
Passing yards 460 283 Mosley 7 61 8.7 0 12 Wynn 8 4 12 0 0 0 2 Passing yards per game 230.0 141.5 Denson 4 70 17.5 1 34 Cobbins 6 5 11 0 0 1 1 Passes completed 39 24 Berry 7 3 10 0 0 0 3 Passes intercepted 1 1 SCORING TO 2XP 1XP FG Sal Pis Maiden 4 5 9 0 0 0 0 
Fumbles/Fumbles lost 1Q-6 2-2 Denson 3 0 0 0 0 18 Covington 8 0 8 0 1 1 0 Penalties-Penalty yards 9-86 15-128 Edwards 2 0 0 0 0 14 Minor 5 3 8 0 0 3 1.5 Third down conversions 18/31 4/23 Sanson 0 0 5-5 2-3 0 11 
Percentage 58 17 Rossum 1 0 0 0 0 6 SERIES 
Fourth down conversions 1/2 0/0 Notre Dame leads: 7-2 FIELD GOALS Tot Last NDwin: 55-27 in 1995 Sanson 2-3 Last Texas win: 21-17 in 1969 Cengia 0-1 Streak: 3byND 
Ns 
PUNTING No Avo Bk Lg Williams Schlutis 7 42.4 0 53 Holmes Butcher KICKOFF RETURNS No Avo TO Lo 
TEAMSTATS UT Opp Brown McGarity 2 17.5 0 20 First Downs 50 36 Babino 1 180 0 18 Total Yards 856 594 PASSING CompAH Pet Yds TO tnt Lg 
Total Yards per game 428.0 297.0 Brown 21 38 55 238 3 0 40 INTERCEPTIONS No Total offensive plays 148 141 Walton 13 18 78 152 0 0 18 Carter 1 Avg. yards per play 5.8 4.2 Kirkpatrick 1 
Rushing yards 450 273 RECEIVING Rec Yds Avo TO Lg Mosier 1 Rushing ~rds per game 225.0 136.5 Adams 7 111 15.9 0 39 Richardson 1 Rushing plays 86 79 Williams 5 15 3.0 0 9 
Passing yards 406 321 Fitzgerald 4 93 23.3 0 40 DEFENSE T A Tot FC FR PBU Sac Passing yards per game 203.0 160.5 Jackson 4 43 10.8 1 15 King 9 8 17 1 0 0 0 Passes completed 36 28 Thomas 12 5 17 0 1 1 0 
Passes intercepted 0 5 SCORING TO 2XP 1XP FG Sal Pis Carter 11 5 16 0 0 3 0 FumbleS/Fumbles lost 5/4 6/5 Williams 4 0 0 0 0 24 Kirkpatrick 10 4 14 1 0 0 1 Penalties-Penalty yards 12-10218-186 Dawson 0 0 9-10 4-6 0 21 Akins 8 5 13 2 1 1 .5 Third down conversions 8-27 9-30 Holmes 2 0 0 0 0 12 Humphrey 7 6 13 1 0 3 .5 
Percentage 30 30 Jackson 1 0 0 0 0 6 Mosier 6 6 12 0 
0 . 1 0 Fourth down conversions 3-4 2-4 Richardson 5 5 10 0 0 0 0 FIELD GOALS Tot Dawson 4-6 
• 


4 
"The Most Popular 

''Papa John's and ND Football-the tradition continues ... '' 
Papa Predicts...  r~oted "Best Delivered l'#zza"The 1995-1996 Observer  
'  ~oted "Best Delivered Pizza" 1993 Best of Michiana  
NOTRE DAME:  31  ~oted "Best Delivered Plzza"1994 Best of Michiana  
Texas:  
 ~oted "Best Delivered Pizza" 1995 Best of Michiana [i(oted "Best Delivered Pizza" 1996 Best of Michiana  

Is now hiring:
rivers • Order Takers 
•Pizza Makers 

Hours: *New for SMC store Mon thru Thurs: 11 a.m.-1 a.m. Fri thru Sat: 11 a.m.-3 a.m. Sunday: 12 p.m. -1 a.m.  Notre Dame: formerly Cactus Jack's  271­1177  
271­PAPA  Saint Mary's: North Village Mall  

• 

Friday, September 20, 1996 
NOTRE DAME SCHEDULE 
Sept. 5 at Vanderbilt W14-7 Sept.14 PURDUE W35-0 Sept. 21 at Texas Sept. 28 OHIO STATE Oct. 12 WASHINGTON Oct. 19 AIR FORCE Nov. 2 Navy (Dublin) Nov. 9 at Boston College . Nov. 16 PITISBURGH Nov. 23 RUTGERS 
Nov. 30 at USC 
11th 
season at Notre Dame 

Career record: 210-92-7 At Notre Dame: 94-27-2 Against Texas: 3-5 
, 
NOTRE DAMEI 
No. Nama  Pot.  HI.  WI.  YR  
Deke Cooper  WR  6·4  205  FR  
Krnnon Talum  ILB  6·0  224  SR  
Ron Powlus  OB  6·2  212  SR  
Kory Minor  OLB  6·2  235  so  
Emmell Mosley  FL  5·B  184  SR  
Lyron Cobbms  ILB  6-D  246  SR  
Jarious Jackson  QB  6·1  218  so  
Eric Chappell  OB  6·5  220  FR  
9 Ra1<1 Nelson  WR  6-1  178  FR  
10 M1ke Perona  QB  6·2  197  SR  
11 Jay Johnson  WR  6·2  170  FR  
12 Mano Slrayhorn  FS  6·1  210  so  
12 Scnll CeOQia  K  5-10  180  JR  
13 Bert Berry  OLB  6·3  245  SR  
14 Ivory COVIOQIOO  CB  5·10  168  JR  
14 Tony McGumgal  QB  6·3  190  SR  
15 Allen RoS5Um  CB  5·8  17B  JR  
15 Paul Rogels  OB  6-2  220  SR  
16 TOdd Dvorak  K  5·10  175  so  
16 John Shmgler  OB  6·1  231  so  
17 Hunler Sm1lh  PNIR  6·2  210  so  
17 Mark McKenna  OB  5·8  194  SR  
18 C1ka1 Champion  SE  5-10  183  SR  
19 Jim Sanson  K  5·11  185  FR  
19 Wayne Gunn  ss  6·2  210  so  
20 Kevm Kopka  K  5·7  196  so  
20 Byron Joyner  FS  6·2  180  so  
21 Shannon Slephens  CB  5·10  179  so  
21 Kevm McDonnell  K  5·11  180  so  
22 Jay Vickers  RB  6·1  205  FR  
23 Aulry Denson  WR/TB  5·10  189  so  
24 ly Goode  CB  5·11  189  JR  
25 Handy Kmder  IB  6·1  204  SR  
26 Lee Lalyelle  CB  5·10  188  FR  
26 Mall Mammolenli  TB  5·8  165  SR  
27 Bobbie Howard  ILB  5·10  228  so  
28 Ken Barry  FB  6·0  224  JH  
29 A'Jam Sanders  ss  5·11  182  so  
30 Jarv1s Edison  FS  6·4  219  JR  
31 Robert Farmer  TB  5·11  227  SR  
33 Jaime Spencer  FB  6·0  247  so  
34 Roome Nicks  DB  6·1  215  FR  
35 Scoll Palumbo  p  5-11  189  SR  
35 Robert Phelps  CB  6·0  185  SR  
36 Tim Lynch  DB  5·9  170  JR  
36 Chns Wachlel  p  6·0  211  SR  
38 Paul Gnmm  DB  5·9  169  JR  
39 Benny Guilbeaux  ss  6·2  202  so  
40 Kev1n Carrella  IE  6·1  239  SR  
41 Joe Bailey  IL8  6·2  222  SR  
42 Allon Ma1den  NG  6·4  271  SR  
43 B1ll Wagasy  OLB  6·3  225  SR  
44 Marc Edwards  FB  6·0  237  SR  
45 Joey Goodspeed  FB/lB  6·0  230  FR  
45 Chrrs McCarlhy  K  5·11  213  JR  
45 Phil SICUSO  DB  5·11  175  so  
46 Bill G1bbs  FS  5·10  171  SR  
47 Hill M11oulas  ILB  6·1  229  JR  
48 Renaldo Wynn  DE  6·3  275  SR  
49 Joe Thomas  ILB  6·2  226  so  
50 Oav1d Payne  OL  6·1  284  so  
51 Melvm Dansby  DE  6·4  288  SR  
52 Alwc Mueller  OG  6-6  275  so  
53 Lamoni Bryanl  DE  6-4  253  so  
~ EdCas1e11  LB  6·1  230  so  
55 Shellon Jordan  DE  6·3  241  so  
56 Kurl Belisle  DE  6·3  251  JR  
57 R1ck Kaclensk1  c  6·4  264  SR  
56 Mike Burijdort  IE  6·1  222  SR  
59 Manhew Kuru  ss  6·1  216  JR  
60 An1W01ne Wellmglon  LB  6·2  230  FR  
60 Sean Rogers  OT  6·0  292  SR  
63 John farrell  c  5·10  253  SR  
64 John Mera1od1  c  6·3  273  FR  
64 M1ko Oenw  IE  6·4  246  SR  
65 Mall Gnesbach  OG  6-1  258  JR  
66 Jell Kilburg  c  6·4  283  SR  
67 John Wagner  OJ  6·7  320  so  
68 Man Brennan  OL  6·5  270  FR  
69 Oav1d 0UISI  NG  6·5  290  SR  
70 !1m Ridder  OT  6·7  297  so  
71 Jerry Wisne  OG  6·7  285  so  
n Leon Hiles  OL  6·6  280  FR  
73 M1ke Ooughly  or  6·8  313  SR  
74 Hob Mowl  OL  6·5  290  FR  
75 Ch11s Cleve"'JBr  OJ  6·8  290  SR  
76 Jeremy Akers  OG  6·6  300  SR  
77 Brad Williams  DL  6-6  250  FR  
78 Jon Sp1ckelm1er  c  6·3  267  JR  
79 Mike Rosenlhal  OG  6·7  310  so  
80 Malcolm Johnson  SE  6·5  203  JR  
81 Lew1s Dawson  WR  6·0  180  FR  
82 Mike Gandy  IE/DE  6·4  235  FR  
83 Deveron Harper  CB  5·10  175  FR  
84 Alberl Jones  WR  5·11  183  SR  
85 Anlwon Jones  NG  6·3  258  so  
86 Dan O'Lwry  IE  6-5  230  FR  
87 J1mmy Fnday  DE  6·2  240  so  
88 Bobby Brown  SE  6·3  185  so  
89 John Cerasam  DE  6·4  258  so  
90 Lance Legree  LB  6·2  248  FR  
91 Darnell Smilh  DE  6·5  276  SR  
92 Joe ferrer  LB  6·3  230  FR  
93 B J Scoll  OL  64  250  FR  
94 Justin Orr  WR  6·2  235  SR  
95 Corey Bennell  DE  61  251  JR  
96 J1m Jones  OL  6·4  260  FR  
98 Pele ChrypiBWICl  IE  6·5  265  SR  
99 Jason Chmg  OL  6·4  270  FR  


·----------~----­
The Irish Extra • THE TEAMS 


Despite solid numbers (215 yards rushing) last week against Purdue, the Irish running attack has yet to fulfill expectations. As Lou Holtz eagerly points out, the Notre Dame offense must be able to run the ball effectively to be successful. 
This will depend a lot on the health of fullback Marc Edwards and tailback Randy Kinder. Kinder missed the first two games with a pulled quadriceps muscle, and a minor knee injury has prevented Edwards from practicing at full 
Longhorn front seven vs. Irish running attack 
strength this week. 
With two preseason All-Americans patrolling the Texas secondary, Notre Dame must rely on the run more than they did in the first two games. If the Longhorns have a weakness, it is their defensive front seven. There is no doubting the unit's talent, but they lack big game experience. 
If the Longhorn front seven does not elevate their game on Saturday, the Irish will run ram­pant Saturday at Memorial Stadium. 
TAILBACK 23·Denson CORNERBACK 25·Kinder 2·Ail•n 
28·Hector 
FULLBACK

«·Edwards ~ 
33-Spencer 
FREE 
SAFETY 
1&-Carter 
1B·Oanaber 

'RIGHT TACKLE 
73·Doughty54-Petltgout 
TIGHTEND 

98-Chryplawlcz _.......___.u.... 
40·Carretta 
STRONG SAFETY 
17·Thomaa 

FLANKER 25-Crenshaw 
5·Moslay
18·Champloo 

SPLIT~ND 
39·Jacbon RUNNING BACK 
S.Scarrborough CORNERBACK 
14-Covlngton3·MIIchell 
10:Harper .

33·Holmes 
lEFT TACKLE 
75·Bishop71-Frlerson 
LEFT GUARD 

RUNNING BACK ~ 
11·Willlams 
29-Coleman 

~ r:, 
FREE SAFETY 3D-Edison 
Hooper 
TIGHT END 
81-Fitzgerald
BS·Scolt 
STRONG SAFETY
WILL 

29-Sanders2-Tatum 39-Guilbeaux
27-Howard 
CORNERBACK 
t5·Roaum 
24·Goode 

---·~-----·-----------~--·-~·~­
------~-----~----------­
Bert Berry finds his
Rightat 
comfort zone in Texas
Home 
and at rush backer 
By TIM SHERMAN, Sports Editor 
B
ert Berry has been looking forward to this for quite a long time now. It is finally his turn to go home. 
In fact, the senior will experience two homecomings, so to speak, this season. 
Tomorrow, when the Humble, TX native takes the field of Memorial Stadium, it will mark his first game in the Lone Star State since the 1994 Cotton Bowl. 
''I'm just excited to go back," Berry said. "I've been waiting for this game for a long time. I've known it's been on our schedule since freshman year." 
And while this is the sort of home­coming that Berry will enjoy for a few days and maybe gain a handful of 

• warm memories from, he has already had the pleasure of another and prob­ably more lasting homecoming this year. He has returned to his "home" on the football field -the position of rush linebacker. "I really do consider it my home. It suits my abilities well." It also suits his personality well. The role calls for an attacking, aggressive, animalistic sort of demeanor. It is a persona that Berry, who stands 6-foot-3 and entered the season weighing 245 pounds, has no trouble portraying on the field. "He's a wild maniac out there," classmate and close friend Lyron Cobbins said. On the field, his face hides behind a darkly-tinted sunshield and his hands lay ready to inflict bodily harm upon all who get in his way. He's not the kind of guy opposing quarterbacks like to meet. On the quad, though, it's another world. On his face beams a smile and his hands are ready to greet anyone along the way. He's exactly the kind of guy you'd like to meet. "Off the field, it's night and day with Bert," Cobbins explained. "When he's not playing, he's very sociable." One might diagnose Berry as a sort of schizophrenic when it comes to his on-the-field, off-the-field variations, but he attributes it to something else. "You can't really carry that stuff over onto the field," the senior said. "You are supposed to be aggressive and reckless and I have always been a shy, quiet, to-myself-kind-of guy. I take pride in that. I don't like to talk about football off the field. I try to live and treat people like I would want to be treated." But as evidenced by his three sacks and 10 tackles thus far in 1996, Berry's role in pads is to seek and destroy. 
It hasn't always been so simple. 
I
n large part due to his immense athleticism, Berry earned starts in four late-season games as a 
· freshman. At that point, though, his specific role was still undefined. 
But as Berry added muscle between freshman and sophomore year. it became apparent that his future was at the rush linebacker spot that new defensive coordinator Bob Davie put emphasis on. 
Berry responded with six sacks in 1994, including three against Stanford's Steve Stenstrom. His tremendous potential was now within reach. 
And then Kory Minor and the move came. Minor. a highly touted freshman in 1995, merited a starting linebacker 

slot. Since the rush spot requires a bit less experience and in-depth knowledge of the system, Berry was shifted to the more complex drop spot in favor of Minor. 
While his stats were down and many critics wondered if the shift would stunt Berry's growth, the 1996 Lindy's pre-season first-team All­American thinks it actually helped. 
"It has helped my overall game," Berry admitted. "When I came here, I was more of a one-dimensional play­er. Having to drop and go into cover­age has helped me. Of course, I would have wanted to play rush, but whatever helps the team is best." 
N
ow, with Minor having gained a year of seasoning, Berry is back where he belongs -at rush. 
"This has been a position that I've wanted to play since I followed (Texas) A&M (growing up). I've always loved that position and I think it's exciting. You can be a playmak­er. It's something I've waited for awhile." 
The wait for his literal homecoming, the Texas showdown, has been just as anticipated. 
"There are some bragging rights at stake," said Berry. "They've been waiting on us because last year, we beat them pretty good, and they want to turn things around. We need to approach it like we approach every game. It's going to be a tough envi­ronment. 
"The hardest part about going home is getting tickets for all your family. Being al;Jle to go home and play in front of family and friends is incen­tive. That will help." 
Berry and his fellow Texans (five defensive starters) know the immedi­ate importance of the contest, but they also are quite cognizant of its' more important consequences. 
"This game is going to have a lot to say about the national championship," Berry declared. 
And Berry is going to have a lot to say about Notre Dame's shot. 
The linebacking corps that includes Minor, strong-side backer Cobbins, and weak side backer Kinnon Tatum is among the hardest-hitting and best in the nation. 
"The Headbangers", a moniker the linebackers gave themselves during the spring of 1995, thrive off each other. especially the seniors (Berry, Cobbins, and Tatum). 
"Lyron, Kinnon, and myself came in here together and we have been friends all four years. We've just gotten closer every year. 
"When you go out there, it's almost like, 'I don't want to let them down'. We go out and play for each other. It helps when you're out there and you have to make certain checks because you have confidence and you know that they are going to get the job done." 
Next year, Berry hopes his job will be in the NFL, but right now, it's all about sacks and wins -not necessarily in that order. 
"I've always taken pride in making sacks. I like to set the standard pretty high. I said to my fellow linebackers that I want to average two a game. That would make 24. If individual awards come, then so be it, but our primary goal is to win a national championship." 
It all starts at home. 

page4  The Irish Extra • THE COVER  Friday, September 20, 1996  


r---------~---------------------------~~-------~~----------~-----­

Friday, September 20, 1996 
The Jrlth P.xrr11 • THE MATCH-UPS 
IRISH ON THE OFFENSIVE... 
T
he Longhorns' defense is definitely a step above the last two Notre Dame 
opponents'. They return a tal­
ented and experienced (98 
career starts) secondary and 
have an All-America candidate 
playing at nose guard. 
llowever, the team they field 
on Saturday lacks the presence 
of All-American defensive end 
Tony Brackens, Texas' main 
dt1fnnsive power last season, 
and the backfield the 'Horns 
will field on Saturday was the 
same one Ron Powlus scorched 
last season for 273 yards. 
While it's a new year and 
there's certainly no reason for 
Notre Dame to feel overconfi­
dent, the Irish offense should 
look upon this game as a legiti­
mate opportunity for a coming­
out party against a top team. . Pcf§PiU; the fAct .t!Jp.t Powlus 
fia success in last year's game, 
many of his passes fell into the 
hands of Derrick Mayes. 
fter studying the explo­
sive Texas offense this 
week, Notre Dame coach 

Lou Holtz believed the UT 
attack to be reminiscent of an 
opponent Irish fans would just 
as soon forget about. 
"When you try to compare 
them to who we played in the 
past as far as personnel, 
Colorado comes back to mind," 
he said. "I need not tell you 
what happened in the (1995) 
Fiesta Bowl game. We didn't 
have much success with them." 
Nobody needs to tell Holtz 
that was a different defense, 
however. The quick, blitzing 
version of this year's Irish 
dnfense has already registered 
12 sacks, presenting an intrigu­
ing match-up with the speedy 
and skillful Texas offense. 
The Longhorns possess a slew 
of weapons in their arsenal led 
by quarterback James Brown. 
Brown has a strong arm and 
ean be a dangerous scrambler. 
"lie's (Brown) a great ath­
letB," defensive end Henaldo 
Wynn said. "If you put pres­
sure on him he can scramble 
outside. The biggest thing will 
be keeping him inside the box." 
Brown has many targets 
ineluding receiver Mike Adams. 
Adams holds numerous school 
records. Along with Adams. 
senior tight end Pat Fitzgerald 
is an All-American candidate 
and will be used to try and 
break down the Irish defense. 
"We're going try and have to 
bring some quickness to the 
game because they're so fast," 
Texan Alton Maiden said. "We 
have speed too and with that, 
hopefully neutralize theirs." 
"They're more of a finesse 
team," Wynn said. "They got a 

Powlus picked apart Purdue, but will need to be at the top of his game against Texas. Brown is liable to rush for as many yards as he passes. 
D 



A healthy Kinder and Edwards would normal­
ly sway this vote, but Williams has been 
unstoppable. Mitchell is also dangerous. 
D 



Adams was an NFL prospect last .:year. 
Fitzgerald also provides big play threat. Irish 
unit needs to continue distribution. 
.

II 
D
Shouldn't have trouble dominating an even 
improved Texas defense. All-American Dan 
Neil anchors the Longhorn line. 

DWill· be tested trying to keep Brawn in pocket, · · ­but he should be in their pocket by day's end. Inexperienced Texas line will welcome Kinder. 


DDominant Irish unit will move into upper ech­elon with strong showing. Berry, Minor, Cobbins, and Tatum pretty much rock. 

D 



With two preseason All-Americans in 
Westbrook and Carter, Texas clearly over­
shadows still-untested Irish secondary. 
• 




Everybody knows about Rossum; place-kicking still up in the air. UT's Dawson has a great leg and punter Schultis hasn't had one returned. 

Cou.ehiug 
D 

Holtz is not about to go 0-4 at Texas. While 
Mackovic has been on the hot seat at UT, Holtz 
is the best big game coach in college football. 

D 

It's a close call, but old Notre Dame will win over all. In what m~y the biggest game of the year for the Irish, the defense will prevail no matter how good 'fe:ms looks on paper. 
"Ron Powlus is the best quar­terback I've ever played against," evaluated cornerback Bryant Westbrook. "He has so much control with everything that's going on, but it's our job to put pressure on him. He can beat up on any secondary in the country, but we won't let him do that to us again this year." 
Although NO's receivers have had success in their last two contests, none of the pre­sent wide-outs are a big threat. Safeties Chris Carter and Tre Thomas will have a tendency to creep up to the line if their cornerbacks are handling the Irish in man coverage. 
Coach Lou Holtz and offensive coordinator Dave Hoberts have compensated for Mayes' ab­sence with diversified play call­ing and multi-receiver sets. Using sevj;lral different players also will force'iexas' secondary to respect the receivers until the cornerbacks can discover their tendencies. While Texas 
lot of talent at all the skill posi­tions. They will try to beat you with speed on the deep ball or with the sweep." 
Hunning that sweep will be sophomore Hicky Williams who has rushed for 244 yards and four touchdowns in Texas' first two wins. The sophomore has · been drawing comparisons to legendary Longhorn running back Earl Campbell after breaking Campbell's fr:eshman rushing record last year. Tailback Shoo Mitchell comple­ments Williams nicely. 
won't slouch in the saddle, the Irish receivers can throw them ofT with consistent play. 
"(The Irish) have a lot of var­ied formations," coach John Mackovic said. "They don't use the same personnel groupings as a lot of teams, but they use the same players to go to a lot of these different formations. So, as you are getting ready to make your substitutions or your calls, you have to wait and see where they go. We have been working o·n that all week." 
The 'Horns defense has yet to see a power running game, as Missouri and New Mexico State did not have the weapons to dent the UT's armor. Their defensive line, led by 290 pound Chris Akins. will have a rough time with Notre Dame's improving 0-line, and Texas' 'backers are notably "capable." You must be more than capable to stop the Irish on the ground. 
-Dave Treacy 
Speed also abounds among an ND defense that has domi­nated the past two weeks and can gain a national name this week with a strong showing against a powerful offense. 
"We got a lot of quick guys too," Wynn said. "The advan­tage we have is not only are our guys quick, but we're physical too. You look at the offensive line on film and you'd think considering how big they are, they would be a power team, but that's not the case at all." 
Joe Villinski 

~--~-~-----------~-----·-~-----~--------~-----­
Football 'reins' in Texas 
I I "' 
Friday, September 20, 1996

page 6 The Irish Extra • THE INSIGHT 
• IRISH INSIGHT 


•  THE IRISH EXTRA STAFF  Barmmer and Mike Day  
Editor: Tim Sherman  Graphic Design:  
Associate Editors: Dave  Chris Mullins  
Treacy and Joe Villinski  Statistician: Jim Belden  
Assistant Editors: Dylan  Production: Heather Cocks  

Jimmie Walk 
Friday & Saturday September 27-28 I 1S cover charge 
IS OFF WITH 
ENT I.D. 
now on sale! C medy Central, 
From ? nt Tonight,
f.ntertalnme . 
VH-1, Nightshlft;, Hilarities, SlapstlX, d comedy Store, an 

-5 more\ 
Gerry !iThroumAn •
eHurnanJulcebo"" •• 
The One-Man . 
Rock&Roll Sh Comedy­
. OWIH
Wrth Three Do .. as appeared .,._ Denver, the T e 9 Nrg~t, John 
-? 
Cheap Trick mptatrons,'and manym
ore. also Rich Br 
own 
•: J. :· 
123 w. wasli~g~n. Suite 200 South Bend (Above B 
8HOWTIME 
Six Shows Every '"'"'­" >.-... u•Y & Thursday 8 10:30 
Campus Night 
doors open at 7 pm 
$4 admission
MUST BE 21 OR OVER 
with Student ID
for information and reservations 
every Wednesday and Thursday
(219)232-7777 
T
here's something special about foot­ball in Texas. 
Football is the pulse that runs deep through the heart of the state. And it should first be point­ed out that Texas is not just your average state. 
It is a state where you are permitted to carry a concealed weapon. It is a state where it is legal to shoot someone who trespasses on one's property. It is a land where a male is allowed to kill another man if he comes home one day and fmds that man with his wife. 
Keep in mind that Texas was an inde­pendent nation for nine years, from 1836-45. And for many natives, it still is. 
Indeed, Texas is a unique state. And football is imbedded in the blood of every Texan from birth to death. 
In Texas, football is not just a sport; it's a way of life. The players are immortalized like demi-gods or even like real life cowboys. And the coaches, from pee wee to high school, are always on the hot seat. 
Small towns rally around their high school teams as if life and death were hanging on the line with every practice, scrimmage, or game. Uke basketball in Indiana, football is treated as an event. 
All week long, anticipation mounts and hopes culminate, before that Friday night or Saturday afternoon finally arrives. Crowds of 20,00 people are not unusal for a regular season high school contest, and the playoffs may pull in twice that number. 
The proof is in the pudding. No state churns out more players than the Lone Star State. Sorry Florida. Miami, Florida State, and Florida may be perennial Top Ten residents, but all one has to do is take a look at their rosters. From top to bottom, their squads have an unmistakable Texas flavor to them. 


Unlike any other state, a school in Texas can compete for the national championship_ by recruiting almost exclusively within the state. In 1993 and 1994, Texas A&M finished in the Top Ten with just two players from out of state. 
Take a look at Notre Dame. Thirteen players call Texas their home, including five starters on defense. Edison, Alton Maiden, Bert Berry. Allen Rossum and A'Jani Sanders were all highly sought after players coming out of the region which was once part of Mexico. Even the unit's leader, defensive coordinator Bob Davie, has ties to Texas, as the coach of the dominating Texas A&M defense. 
The University of Texas is a story in itself. To say the school is rich in foot­ball history would not do it justice. The Longhorns have recorded 88 winning seasons in 103 years of competition. And the burnt orange will never let you forget that the program recorded three national championships during its dynasty of the late 1960's and early 1970's. 
School spirit. You'd be hard pressed to find a university with a bigger or more devoted following. The fan sup­port that visited South Bend last year for the Longhorn-Irish matchup was simply unbelievable. For Notre Dame fans, it was downright obnoxious. 
But that's the way football is in Texas. 
It is not just a game to watch and enjoy. 
It is a way of life. 


-------------·----~-~~-----~----------~--~--­

~~) TEAM 1. Nebraska (58) 2. Tennessee (5) 
3. 
Florida St. (4) 

4. 
Florida 

5. 
Penn St. 

6. 
Texas 

7. 
Ohio St. ! 8. Michigan


ji·

it ~ I
1-t; 9. Notre Dame 
10. Miami 

M 

11 . North Carolina 2-0 2-1 3-0 
e 12. Colorado 
13. Alabama 14. Auburn 3-0 
15. 
Southern Cal 2-1 

16. 
Kansas St. 3-0 

17. 
Arizona St. 2-0 

18. 
Virginia Tech 2-0 19. Iowa 2-0 20. Virginia 2-0 21. LSU 1-0 22. Kansas 2-0 23. Syracuse 0-1 


, 24. Washington 1-1 
1 
25. Oregon 3-0 


RECORD POINTS Prev 
1-0 2-0 1-0 2-0 3-0 2-0 1-0 2-0 2-0 3-0 1662 1 1561 2 1536 3 1519 4 1369 6 1232 7 1225 8 1211 11 1099 9 1071 10 
926 12 
911 5 
764 13 
764 15 
702 16 
684 17 
587 18 
528 19 
454 21 
441 22 
381 20 
360 24 
214 23 
174 
103 

OTHERS RECEIVING VOTES: Brigham Young 93. Northweslern 52, Wesl Virginia 47. Georgia Tech 22, Texas Tech 19, Wyoming 16, Arizon 
B. UCLA B. Utah B. South Carolina 6, Air Force 5. Wisconsin 4 
CJM 


ABC* 
Arizona at Washington 2:30 p.m. Tech at North Carolina 2:30 Oklahoma at San Diego State 2:30 p Oregon at Washington 3:00p.m. 
ESPN Pittsburgh at Ohio State 11:30 p.m. LSU at Auburn 6:30 p.m. 
*regional coverage, check your local listings 
BIOI 
KJIIQI' 

Do-or-die weekend for SEC title contenders, Huskers hit the desert 
By TODD FITZPATRICK Sports Writer 
#4 Florida at 
#2 Tennessee 
Although it's only the third week of the season, this SEC battle will probably decide the conference championship. Last year, Tennessee's only loss was against Florida. This year, however, the Volunteers will play at home with more than 100,000 fans in their corner. 
The most publicized matchup involves the two starting quar­terbacks. For Tennessee, junior Peyton Manning's intelli­gence anq accuracy could make him the No. 1 pick in the NFL Draft if he decides to leave early. He's that good. But Florida's Danny WuerfTel is no slouch either. He leads Steve Spurrier's explosive Fun-and­Gun offense and will look for his favorite targets, Ike Hilliard and Reidel Anthony. 
#1 Nebraska at 
#1 7 Arizona State 
Can anybody beat Nebraska? The Cornhuskers have won two consecutive National Championships. They haven't lost a game since the Orange Bowl following the 1993 sea­son. And they've already crushed Michigan State in this year's season opener. Tommy Frazier and Lawrence Phillips are gone from last season's high-powered offense, but quarterback Scott Frost and running back Ahman Green haven't skipped a beat thus far. 

Arizona State must hope for a big performance from quar­terback Jake Plummer, who has started 30 consecutive games, and Keith Poole, the Sun Devils' primary receiver. Defensively, linebackers Scott Von der Ahe and Derek Smith are backed up by hard-hitting free safety Mitchell Freedman. 
#21 LSU at 
#14 Auburn 

In this battle of the Tigers (both schools have the same nickname), the winner will have the upper hand in the SEC West. Not only is Auburn playing at home, but this game will be their fourth of the sea­son. LSU has only played one thus far, which could produce a slow start. 
Much of Auburn's offensive success will depend on the play of junior quarterback Dameyune Craig, who will be complemented by plenty of tal­ented receivers. 
LSU led the SEC in scoring defense and pass-efficiency defense last season. Most of the starting rotation, including tackles Anthony McFarland and Chuck Wiley, have returned. 
Georgia Tech at 
#11 North Carolina 
After knocking ofT Clemson at home and Syracuse on the road, it appears that North Carolina is for real. 
The Tar Heels' linebacking unit is the ACC's best, and maybe one of the best in· the nation. As a total defense, UNC led the conference with an average of 267.3 yards, almost 60 fewer than the next-best team. 
Georgia Tech is on the fringe of being nationally ranked. A win over North Carolina would vault them into the Top 25. The Yellow Jackets' strong running game must carry them. 


Courtesy of Florida State Sports lnfo""etlon 

Gator quarterback Danny Wuerffel hopes to avoid a similar fate against the Tennessee defense. 
The Peerless Prognosticators 



Notre Dame Notre Dame Florida Tennessee Nebraska Nebraska Auburn Auburn 
Tim Sherman Sports Editor N.C. N.C. 
Notre Dame Notre Dame Florida Florida Nebraska Nebraska 
LSU Auburn 
N.C. N.C. 




The Observer/Rob Finch Tight end Scott Dragos and Boston College roll into Michigan this weekend at 2:30 p.m. on ABC. 
Todd Fitzpatrick Sports Writer 
Notre Dame Tennessee Nebraska Auburn N.C. 
Notre Dame Tennessee Nebraska 
Auburn 
G. Tech 

-


.,...._...,___~.~­
.-:::";",________________ 
Tt-IE ROAD TRJP 
page 8 • The Irish Extra Friday, September 20, 1996 
University ofTexas . at Austin 
t/ 47,957 students 
t/ Founded in 1883 
t/ The colors are BURNT orange and white. And don't insult them, either. 
t/ Known as the "Longhorns" (affectionately shortened to 'Horns). Also called ''Teasippers" by their bitter state rivals over at A&M and others who are not fans. 
t/ "Hook 'em Horns" is their battle cry and will usually be accompanied by the UT hand signal, which you will soon recognize. 
t/ Beevo is the longhorn. Yep, it's real. And they love it. The men guarding Beevo are the "Cowboys" and are viewed with the same respect as our Irish Guard. Once, back in the day, some students at A&M kidnapped Beevo before the Thanksgiving Day meeting between the two schools. Since A&M was a big agri­cultural school, the abductors made use of the on-campus slaughterhouse...And had a barbeque... With ~~~~~~~~~~~:!....E~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
t/ Alumni include Lady 
Where to Eat 
College Hangouts 
X Copper Tank Brewing Co. 
504 Trinity Street; 478-8444 
X Kerbey Lane Cafe 
3704 Kerbey Lane; 451-1436 
X Hyde Park Bar & Grill 
4206 Duval St.; 458-3168 
X Martin Brothers Cafe 

2815 Guadalupe St.; 478-9001 
Country-Western. Steak 
X O'Bryan's (yep, an Irish place) 
X Broken Spoke
61 9 Congress; 476-4764 

3201 s. Lamar Blvd.
X Shady Grove Cafe 

X Salt Lick Restaurant1624 Barton Springs Rd.; 4 7 4­4000 S. IH 35; 326-20359991 X Austin Land & Cattle Co
X Sundowner Grill (on the lake) 1205 Lamar Blvd.; 4 72-1 
13
16107 Wharf Cv.; 258-9993 

-






