
Thursday, October 3, 1996 • Vol. XXX No. 29 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
• STUDENT SENATE 
Senate addresses parking 

Construction is seen as root of recent changes 
By RUSSELL WILLIAMS 
Assistant News Editor 
The seemingly never-ending discussion on parking contin­ued at yesterday's Student Senate meeting as Phil Johnson, assistant director of Notre Dame Security, addressed the issue. 
In Johnson's presentation, he examined each parking lot on campus, what role they serve now, and what role they will serve in the future. 
Johnson expressed concern about the minimal use of cer­tain lots on campus, like D2, and the lack of available spaces in other lots. 
Unlike students, faculty and staff are allowed to park in any 
By MAUREEN HURLEY 
Associate News Editor 
Individuals must strive to be bold and daring in tlwir faith lives, taking lessons from the St. Therese of Lisieux, aceord­ing to Keith Egan, professor of religious studies. I lis lecturn, entitled "Then\se Martin: A Bold lloliness," closed off the "lloly Young Women" series, spon­sored by the Center for Spirituality at Saint Mary's College. 
Egan eornnwmorated the Oct. 1 feast day of St. TIH)nise by describing "the boldness, the daring, and the courage" of the Carnwlite nun, who tragically died at the age of 24. 
Through tolling the story of St. Then\se, known as "the little flower," l·:gan hoped the audience in Stapleton Lounge would be inspired by her story in their own faith lives. 
According to Egan, one of the most notable aspects of St. Therese's short designated lot of their choosing. However, in light of the con­struetion on campus, Johnson said that this may change. 
"It is a luxury we may not be able to continue," Johnson said. 
The addition of Keough and O'Neill and the opening of two more dorms next academic year, coupled with construe­lion, have shifted parking away from the central campus to the perimeter. This doesn't mean that there is less available parking on campus. "We have an abundance or surplus of parking. But, its just not near where people want to park," noted Johnson. 
In order to adjust to changes, Johnson said, "We must devel­op a new paradigm in solving problems." The allocation of parking spots remained a pri­mary directive of Security. Additionally, he outlined plans by the facilities department for the next 10-15 years to effec­tively handle an increased demand for parking brought on by new building construction. 
Johnson's presentation con­cluded with a question and answer session. Off-campus co-president Brendan Tobin suggested making space avail­able for students in the lot adjacent to Senior Bar since that lot is one identified by Johnson as being underutilized. Johnson said that would be very difficult to do because fac­ulty and staff have not been very receptive to the idea. 
Also, Tobin pointed out that lighting in the C1 lot could be improved, and poliee patrols at night should be increased. "When you go to your car late at night, it can get pretty scary to some people," said Tobin. 
Johnson pointed out that a civil engineering firm has been hired to examino the possibility of putting a traffic light at the crosswalk for students who cross Juniper Hoad from C1. 
see SENATE/ page 4 

Egan: Therese eptiomizes Final glimpse 'bold, holy young woman' 

life was that she fought the traditional belief of a rigid, wrathful God, and encouraged individuals embrace a friendship with God. 
,
"Without biblical or theological train­ing, Therese boldly challenged the spiri­
I
tuality of her time. Her offering was to 
l 
a mereiful and loving God." In addition to attempting to change 
l 
the outlook on traditional faith, St. 
I
Therese is known for discovering "the little way," which provides a context in which Catholics can find an element of spirituality in even the smallest of actions. 
"Therese's little way is straight Gospel talk: love God, love neighbor. Do so in the most ordinary actions of everyday. The little way demands faithfulness, a commitment to love others in the ordi­
The Observer/Kim Michalik 

nary corners of life," Egan said. 
A Saint Mary's student takes time to catch a final glimpse of the Little Theatre Gallery's 
Through the little way, "Therese has art exhibit, "A Llegada de Mi Familia," by Elizabeth Mesa-Gaido. The gallery's next 
exhibit, Elise Mitchell Sanford's 'The Stuff of Dreams," opens tomorrow. 
see HOLY I page 4 

Efforts increased to attract minority students 
h'dilor 's Note: In light of Multicultural Week at Saint Mary's College. this is the third in a series exploring diversity in the College. 
By LORI ALLEN 
Saint Mary's News Editor 
Diversification is at the fore­front of rnennt efforts by Saint Mary's to determine its identity. The issue is being discussed in great detail across the campus this week because of Saint Mary's Multicultural Awareness Week. Faculty and students from the College have taken part in activities this week in hopes of shedding light on the issue of diversity. 
"The lack of diversity is a eon­cern with prospective students," said Maricela Ramirez, director of multicultural affairs. "I can't think of any student of color that 

a predominately 

white institute." 
Along with working to increase minority enrollment on campus, Hamirez stated that strides have been made to change the per­ception that Saint Mary's tradi­tionally reflects a "white, mid­dle-class culture." 
"The attitudes and campus cli­mate has been modified, to tell students and faculty of color that this is a weleoming place where they can succeed here, be lead­ers, and pursue academic achievement," she said. 
The Admission Offiee is also working to provide the commu­nity with students of various international backgrounds in the hopes of further enriching the College. According to Moira Murphy, assistant director of admission, each counselor has been trying to include schools that have a high pereentage of minority students in their recruitment process. They have also included telephone counsel­ing for minority students by other minority students. 
"I think because of the more concerted effort that we are pro­viding, with more tours and such, I would definitely hope that it would help to diversify Saint Mary's College," said Murphy. 
According to the 1996 Self­Study Report for the North Central Reaccredidation, the Saint Mary's College Admission 
see DIVERSITY/ page 4 

Freshmen diversity at Saint Mary's 
STUDENT BACKGROUND  NUMBER ENROLLING EACH YEAR  
1987  1989  1991  1993  1995  
1ST YEAR STUDENTS AFRICAN AMERICAN ASIAN AMERICAN HISPANIC AMERICAN NATIVE AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL  1 4 2 0 5  3 6 15 0 4  2 6 7 0 5  2 9 16 1 7  6 6 22 2 6  
MINORITY STUDENTS AS A PERCENTAGE OF THE STUDENT BODY  2.4%  3.2%  3.8%  5.9%  6.8%  
INTERNATIONAL & MINORITY STUDENTS AS A PERCENTAGE OF THE STUDENT BODY  3.4%  4.3%  5.0%  7.1%  8.5%  

SOURCE: THE COLLEGE FACT BOOK 

page 2 The Observer • INSIDE Thursday, October 3, 1996 
...------­
I 
I I 
I 
r 
I 
l ! 
I ! 
• INSIDE OLUMN 

Wakeup the students 
I ask that you recall Dave Treacy's Monday Irish Insight Column "Where were the voic­es?". "Simply put," he wrote, "the relative silence of the home crowd contributed toward the loss on Saturday." 
Darn right. While Dave focuses on the virtual silence of the alumni and fans at the Ohio State game, I'd like to take this time to criticize my fellow students. 

Basically, our support in general for the team on Saturday was pitiful. The Buckeyes took the crowd out of the game with the opening kick­off, and we barely made an· effort to get back into it. 
Too often, we stood there in silence, waiting for players to flap their arms like ptero­dactyls and encourage us to yell. 
Too often, we stood there in silence, waiting for a big play-such as Autry Denson's punt return -to get us psyched up and ready for a comeback. That's wrong. We did it back­wards. It should be we, the fans, who psych up the team with our screaming and chanting and roaring. Then they mount a comeback. 
Thinking back to last year's Texas game, I remember that the crowd -students, fans, and alumni alike -were into that game from the beginning and didn't let up until the clock hit zero. That game was not nearly as big. Other than that, it was quite similar: a high­ranked team came in and was expected to give us a good game. The Irish found them­selves losing at times during the game. But in the Texas game, unlike the Ohio State game, the crowd never gave up. We distract­ed the Texas team. 
What makes Saturday's loss more painful is the sight of scarlet in the stands. You couldn't ignore the Buckeye faithful because they were loud, and they kept it up for four quarters. 
Maybe that's it: maybe we're not in shape for a full game yet. Maybe we should have half the student body in the stands for the first half, and then they can leave and the fresh, rested second team cheerers can come in for the third and fourth quarters. The other half of the student section could be filled with local grade-school ND fans. They'd probably be louder than we were. 
At least there wasn't a mass exodus from 
the Student Quiet Corner before the Alma 
Mater played. Sure, some snuck out early to 
beat the rush back to their dorms, but for the 
most part we stayed and swayed. 
But few seemed dismayed. I saw a few people crying and that's the emotion I'd like to see. Some may argue that there's more to life at ND than football. I agree. But when the football program is what this school is recognized for more than anything else nationwide, the support we show for the team reflects the love and admiration we have for Our Lady and the Notre Dame fami­ly. 
When the subway alumni watch the game on NBC and see the effort we put into cheer­ing Lou's Lads onward to victory, or defeat, they see how much we "love thee Notre Dame." 
When I think back to Saturday's game 
years from now I'll remember it as the day 
we failed to wake up the echoes. I think we 
bored them to sleep. 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 



News Lab Tech Matthew Loughran Dave McCaffrey Bridget O'Connor Michael Lewis 
Production Sports Maureen Hurley Brian Reinthaler Rosanna Ventrone Viewpoint Ethan Hayward Graphics Accent Melissa Webet 
Jason Dorwat 

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
5 Day South Bend Forcast 


The AccuWeather'"'forecast for noon, Thursday, Oct. 3. 
AccuWeather® forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 
Lines separate high temperature zones for the day. 
Friday 

. I 
Saturd~· 
............... ~ 
/ 
COLD WARM STATIONARY 
Cl 1996 AccuWeather, Inc. 
Pr6ssure ~ ~ 
H L E3 ESI [TI] EZJ [ZJ B ~ ~ cC:J. 
HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY
Sunda~) 
NATIONAL SUMMARY: 
Colder air will charge Into the Northeast today aided by gusty northwest winds. Temperatures will average 20 degrees lower than yesterday from central New England to Ohio. A portion of the chilly air


Mong,;i;··(· 
will dip as far south as southern Texas. Residents from southern Oregon to southern Arizona will enjoy comfortably warm weather. 
(5',..-=S"~-----~ ·\/' 
,.. _,. ..... 

Atlanta 72 64 Dallas 73 57 New Orleans 74 84 
Baltimore 65 54 Denver 64 41 New York 60 55 
Boston 58 52 Los Angeles 82 63 Philadelphia 56 62
~,~,~~~~ {) ~ ~ 
Showers T-storms Rain Flurries Snow Ice Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy 
Chicago 56 35 Houston 79 70 Phoenix 96 72 
Via Associated Press GraphicsNet 
Columbus 55 44 Miami 88 78 St. Louis 60 45 

• Wmn.o AT A Guuu::E 
Former Bulgarian prime minister gunned down 
SOFIA, Bulgaria 
shortly before the shooting. 
Bulgaria's first post-Communist prime President Zhelyu Zhelev condemned minister was gunned down outside his the killing and ordered his National home Wednesday in an assassination Security Council to meet later that reflected the growing anarchy in Wednesday, state radio said. this impoverished Balkan country. Parliament observed a minute of 
Andrei Lukanov, 58, was one of silence, after which lawmakers unani­Bulgaria's most influential political and mously adopted a declaration that ter­business figures. He helped oust rorism would not be allowed to destabi­Communist strongman Todor Zhivkov lize Bulgaria. The declaration also said and headed two Socialist governments presidential elections would go ahead as until strikes forced him to step down in scheduled Oct. 27. November 1990. Bulgaria has become increasingly 
Lukanov remained an important mired in economic and political chaos in 
member of parliament for the Socialist Party -the former Communist Party he had joined as a young economist and diplomat -and was the strongest critic of the current Socialist prime minister, Zhan Videnov. 
Lukanov was shot and killed Wednesday morning, the Interior Ministry said, without elaborating. Bulgarian media quoted a neighbor, Verka Petkova, as saying she had seen a tall man dressed as a tramp near the house in the past few days, and saw him fumbling in garbage cans 
recent months, with crime rising, the currency plunging and debt repayments exceeding the 1996 gross domestic product. 
The price of bread -a staple -has quadrupled this year, with a 25 percent hike in the last week alone. 
The head of the National Bodyguard Service told the state news agency BTA that Lukanov was under its pro­tection from Feb. 1 to April 15 after he received death threats. The security ended after an agency investigation, BTA said, without elaborating. 
Mideast summit sparks silence 
WASHINGTON 
For one odd, very awkward, moment they were the three mute 
li1!1,..~·:,0,~~,';!11 men: the Israeli, Jordanian and Palestinian leaders, including PLO leader Yasser Arafat (at right), in a state of studied silence. It was one last unscripted moment in a hastily called Mideast summit that concluded with President Clinton trying to explain to a White House news conference why his three partners were present in the room but not taking ques­tions. "Well, they're certainly free to speak," President Clinton began. "It is my understanding that they thought it would be better if I spoke and answered the ques­tions." The risk in talking, he said, was that something upsetting might be said -something that would make the already tense Israeli-Palestinian situation even more tense. It was clear they had earlier decided that only Clinton would speak. "Let's don't kid around," Clinton told reporters. "I mean, what we're trying to do is to avoid saying anything that will make progress difficult." 
Controversial octuplets die 
LONDON 
A woman who had been trying against medical advice to give birth to eight babies lost the last four fetuses today. In a brief statement, King's College Hospital in London said: "We regret to announce that Mandy Allwood has now lost her four remaining babies." Allwood, 32, prematurely gave birth to three boys on Monday. All died. Obstetrician Donald Gibb said doctors delivered a girl under anesthetic this morning. The baby weighed just 7. 7 ounces and died soon afterward. Allwood conceived the eight fetuses after taking fertility drugs and rejected medical advice to abort some of them. The hospital said Allwood, in the 19th week of her pregnancy, received a blood transfusion and was in stable condition. It did not immediately provide more detail about the deaths of the last four fetuses. Allwood's pregnancy and her decisions aroused consid­erable controversy in Britain. After Allwood discovered she was pregnant with the eight fetuses, she approached the News of the World, a Sunday tabloid newspaper, which reportedly bought her story for a sliding scale six figure sum, depending on how many live births she pro­duced. 

Hernan reaks havoc in Mexico 
COLIMA, Mexico 
Hurricane Hernan hammered a remote stretch of Mexico's Pacific Coast on Wednesday, whipping up rough seas with its 85 mph winds and generating heavy rains in at least four states. Hernan struck land near Punta Tejupan in Michoacan state shortly before noon, and by 4 p.m. EDT the northern edge of its eye was buf­feting beaches and moving parallel to the coast on a northwest track at about 11 mph. Ports and harbors were closed in the states of Guerrero, Michoacan, Colima, and Jalisco -all the way north to Cabo Corrientes, 680 miles northwest of Mexico City. The National Water Commission reported swells and waves in some places of 14 feet. The Mexican government issued hurricane warnings from Zihuatanejo to Cabo Corrientes, and tropical storm warnings were in effect 60 miles north of Cabo Corrientes to San Bias. Hernan had already caused three days of heavy rains over parts of southern and central Mexico. The hurricane was expected to weaken after hitting land, but hurricane­force winds extended outward up to 30 miles from the center. 
PMS causes middle-school suspension 
DAYTON, Ohio 
School officials defended their suspension of a 13-year­old honor student who borrowed a packet of Midol from a friend, saying the girl violated the school's drug policy. Erica Taylor, 13, took the over-the-counter pills from a classmate at Baker Junior High School in Fairborn, Ohio, because she felt poorly -but then decided not to take them. When she was found out, the school suspended her for 10 days and ordering her to undergo a drug eval­uation or possibly face expulsion. "The more and more I thought about it, the more ridiculous it became," Erica's father, Dan Taylor, said Tuesday. The district's drug policy does not distinguish between legal and illegal or prescription and nonprescription drugs, said school spokeswoman Joy Paolo. Nonprescription drugs are only given to students who bring in signed permission slips from their parents. "We're real comfortable with our policy, and it's pretty much in line with what most dis­tricts do," Paolo said. "I believe the general public wants safe, drug-free schools." Midol, which contain aceta­minophen and caffeine, is taken to relieve cramps, headaches and other symptoms related to menstrual periods. 
Thursday, October 3, 1996 The Observer· CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
• CAMPUS BRIEFS 

Snite features Mexican photos 
Sprcial to The Observer 
In et~lebration of Hispanic Month, the University of Notre Dame is displaying pho­tographs by tlw Mexican pho­tographer Manu!ll Alvarez­Bravo in the rotunda of its Main Building. 
The 22 black and white pho­tographs, all from the pcnna­ncnt eollection of the Uniw~rsity's Snitr. Museum of Art, were selected and arranged by Steve Moriarity, the Snito's curator of photog­raphy. The exhibition will run through October. 
Widely considered Mexico's grnatest photographer, the 94-year-old Alvarez-Bravo was born, as he once said "in tlw City of Mexko, behind the cathedral, ncar the place where the temples of the ancient Mexican gods once stood." An amateur photog­raphl.'r and professional gov­ernment bureaucrat for sev­eral years. hn quit his job in the treasury department in 11):0 to devote himself to his art. lin has published books of photogmphy and exhibited works throughout North and South Arneriea and Europe. 
The exhibition represents Alvarez-Bravo's work from the lat1~ 1920s to 1975. With thn notablo exception of a 1934 photograph, "A Striking Worker, Assassinated,» all of 
the pictures exemplify the artist's penchant for pho­tographing subjects drawn from everyday life. 
The muralist Diego Rivera once remarked of Alvarez­Bravo's photographs that "they are Mexican in their format, their content. and thnir cause, and they are therefore full of irony and anguish. They are like those particles suspended in the air which render visible a ray of light as it penetrates a dark room." 
A special Charlie Rose Show featuring interviews with University of Notre Dame President Father Edward Malloy and head football coach Lou Holtz will be broadcast at 7 p.m. Thursday. Oet. 3 on WNIT television, Michiana 's PBS affiliate. WNIT broadcasts on channel 34 and cable channel 10. 
The program, taped Monday on eampus and in WNIT's Elkhart studios was aired late that night and early Tuesday morning on PBS affiliates across the country. 
The program, also featuring a eameo interview with Notre Dame alumnus and television personality Regis Philbin, 
marked  Malloy's  second  
appearance  with  Charlie  
Hose.  




Golden introduces novel to SMC 
By SARAH CORKREAN on National Public Hadio and invited her to News Writer speak, remembers Golden's works on the radio as "very moving and very powerful, and I thought 
African-American writer Marita Golden believes it would be very good for students to hear her". that words can overcome any racial barriers. "She enters into the minds of eharaeters that 
Highlighting cultural week with a lecture live with racial injustice everyday," senior Amy Wednesday afternoon in Moreau Center for the Brabeck said. "You fenl as if you are the charac­Performing Arts, Golden reflected on her most ter and enter a world that is so unfamiliar to me. recent work, "Saving Our Sons: Raising Black I can't wait till her novel is released and I'm anx­Children in a Turbulent World." The work is ious to read her other writings." Golden's personal account of raising her son a Aside from a student and faculty audionce, diverse world. many local community mombers were present. 
In addition to her speaking engagement, Golden "Golden's messagB is something that will be interacted with students in an academic class­appealing, not only for the Saint Mary's College room for part of the day. community, but for the Notre Dame and South 
She spent the day visiting Professor Linn Bend community," Hamirez said. Vacca's American Women of Color class, Golden Golden is a senior writer in the Graduate MBA was impressed with how interested and involved Creative Writing Program at Virginia the students were with the classroom discussion. Commonwealth University in Hechmond, 
Golden described her latest book as about "a Maryland. A popular lecturer on many college family in crisis in racially-divided America." campuses, Golden has spoken at Spelman Maricela Hamirez, director of the Saint Mary's College, Antioch and Howard Universities, 
Office of Multicultural Affairs, who heard Golden George washington University, and many others. 
• RESIDENCE HAll ASSOCIATION 


RHA announces petition drive 
By MISSY LIND Pangborn, and Stanford will film "She said No," a mock News Writer join with LeMans. McCandless trial, an open forum, breakfast Hall chose Breen Phillips, in the dorms and a possible Last night, the Residence Hall Keenan, O'Neill, and event with Flipside, a group Association (RHA) discussed Pasquerilla East. Hegina Hall's that plans alcohol and drug­topics ranging from brother/sister dorms are free events. HilA and Student Brother/Sister Dorms to hall Carroll, Cavanaugh, and Zahm. Activities Board (SAB) will allotments, alcohol awareness RHA also voted on the issue of sponsor an appearance by and October break housing. hall allotments last night. They comedian Wendy Fox on 
Nikki Milos, president of HHA, decided that each hall will get a Wednesday, Oct. 16 from 8:30 announced that the Board of base sum and additional fund­to 9:45 p.m. in Carroll Governance (BOG) will conduct ing based on the number of res­Auditorium. a technology petition drive on idents. Fall break housing will be Oct. 3 and 4 in the dining hall The LeMans Hall "LeMonster available on the fourth and fifth from 7 to 9 a.m., 11 to 1 p.m., Mash" costume dance is set for floor of Hegina North only. All and 4 to 6 p.m. Voice mail and Nov. 1. LeMans plans to sell residents, including those cable television top the list of jackets this year. They are also already living in Regina, will be items on the petition. planning a Mass on Oct. 13 with required to move to those two 
Milos also announced the Stanford. LeMans had their floors if they wish to remain on brother/sister dorms for the hall blessing on Oct. 1 . campus during break. Halls 1996/97 school year. The Alcohol Awareness Week will close at 8 p.m. on Sunday, Annunciata Hall's brother/sister chairwomen discussed ideas for Oct. 20 and re-open at 9 a.m. dorms are Alumni, Farley, and the week of Oct. 14 to 19. on Sunday, Oct. 27. Keough. Holy Cross was Among the possible ideas are a Next week's meeting will be in assigned Fisher, Lyons, and pledge to remain alcohol free the LeMans Tower Hoom at Morrissey. Badin, Flanner, for the week, a viewing of the 6:30p.m. on Wednesday. 
Have something to say? Use The Observer classifieds.
We've got yot--\1"" nowel""s fol"" this weeke"'d 's dC\1'\Ce 
•La,.gest selection ofFt'esh-c,.t 
t'OSeS *Daily delivet'y to campt's *St'""dent discotAnt 
•
Located ot"\ cot"net' of Edison and J.,.onwood 

•
.All majol" Ct'edit ca,.ds accepted 


800-224-4695 • 288-7551 

UNIVERSITY CLUB OF NOTRE DArvfE 
Is accepting membership applications for Notre Dame & Saint Mary's College & Holy Cross Faculty and full-time staff. 
Dues = $50 per year 
Call631A678 for membership applications or for more information 

page 4 

Senate 
continued from page 1 
Tobin thought that it would be a good idea. "Although a hin­drance to the driver, it would increase safety and security for the off-campus students," said Tobin. 
Serious consideration is being given to the idea of a shuttle for students who live off-campus or who need to get from one side of campus to the other. "The idea has merit," said Johnson, but he called it a "very expensive proposition," and stressed the need for stu­dent input. "If students aren't interested in making it hap­pen, it won't happen." 
Chief of Staff Brendan Kelly announced the forming of a committee to examine the pos­sibility of a permanent spot for a student with enumerated powers on the Board of Trustees. This issue was raised at the last meeting of Student Senate. "There is very little interactLon between students and faculty as far as input goes," said Kelly. 
At the next meeting of the senate on Oct. 16, Judicial Council President Ryan Mcinerney will initiate a dis­cussion on students' rights in disciplinary hearings. In an informational statement to the senate, Mcinerney wrote, "During the summer of 1993, all student rights were revoked. Currently students have no rights in an Administrative Hearing." Mcinerney also said that the introduction of a resolution regarding the students' rights issue is a distinct possibility. 
The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, October 3, 1996 

If you see news happening, call The Observer;;. at 631-5323 
ERASMUS BOOKS 
• 
Used books bought and sold 

• 
25 categories of Books 

•25,000 
Hardback and Paperback books in stock 

•Out-of.Print 
Search Service: $2.00 

•Appraisals 
large and small 


Open noon to six Tuesday through Sunday 1027 E. Wayne South Bend, IN 46617 (219) 232-8444 


Holy 
continued from page 1 
taught us that grace, God's pres­ence, is everywhere," he contin­ued. 
Referring to St. Therese's strong desire to serve God by becoming a Carmelite nun at the young age of 15, Egan said, "Recall this bold announcement by Therese: 'I feel the vocation of the warrior, the priest, the apostle, the doctor, the martyr.' Great chutzpa or bold dreams, indeed," citing St. Therese's autobiography, "Story of a Soul." 
Called "the greatest saint of modern times," by Pope Pius X, St. Therese epitomized determi­nation and faith regardless of the circumstances. 
"Therese, without any theolog­ical education, reveals a subtle 

Diversity 
continued from page 1 
Office has added a counselor, expanded its travel program, and worked with the National Hispanic Institute and with multicultural centers in many of the College's target states. 
In the area of financial aid, one international scholarship is offered to an entering first year student that is available for renewal for four years. The scholarship covers tuition, room and board, and fees. All international students are con­sidered for the scholarship, and must demonstrate finan­understanding about the mean­ing of holiness," Egan said. "Therese's personality was the concrete incarnation in which God's holiness came to us through her. 
"Therese Martin recognized that her desire to live with God fully alive within her was daring and bold," said Egan. 
Despite the suffering St. Therese endured in her battle with tuberculosis, and her death at a young age, she never lost faith or hope, according to Egan. 
"Weak and beleaguered with physical pain, Therese never finished the last sentence of her autobiography, which trails off with these words written with a pencil that her fingers could hardly hold, 'I go to Him with confidence and love...' That's courage," Egan said. 
He indicated that the support of others is essential in order to 
cia! need as well as academic success. A Holy Cross Grant is also <1\'ailable to students of African-American heritage on the basis of financial need. 
The Admission Office has included international tours in their recruitment process through a program called INTER-ED, which allowed them to visit countries as dif­ferent as Bangladesh and Pakistan this past summer. Mary Pat Nolan, director of admission, attended college fairs in the countries in order to introduce Saint Mary's College to prospective interna­tional students. 
"It was very exciting, I met a lot of fine students, 23 of whom 



IAZZMAN's 
NITE CLUB 
525 N. Hill Street 233-8505 , , 
, 


HIP HOP 
THURSDAY COLLEGE NIGHT. With a NY Twist Featuring:
DJ "Q" 
The Vinyl Man from the Big City FREE Admission Thursday to ND, SMC, HCC, and IUSB Students Must be 21 or over Doors open 9 PM -2 dance floors 
Coming Friday October 4TH 
THE SI<ALCOHOLII<S BAND 

The Observer/Kim Michalik 

Keith Egan, professor of religious studies, spoke about St. Therese of 
Lisieux yesterday as part of the lecture series, "Holy Young Women." 
achieve a faith analogous to that our hearts," said Egan. of St. Therese. "We need bold "Try her little way with the and daring friends to support us support of friends and commu­as we risk responding freely and nity who are trying to let God wholeheartedly to a loving God empower them with a loving who died to take possession of heart." 
are absolutely qualified for admission at this time," said Nolan. "It was a broadening experience personally for me to become more aware of the educational systems, and a bit more aware of the culture." 
While they have been to Europe twice, this is the first time that the College has gone elsewhere to recruit students. They are as committed as ever to adding these students to the already rich tradition that exists at Saint Mary's. 
"We have to start somewhere, and while this may not be pro­ductive right away, it is a big step for the College, the stu­dents will definitely add a cul­tural richness, " said Nolan. 
"We can only better the College to have students from other countries and cultures here to interact with on a daily basis," said Nolan. 

Chinese -American Restaurant and Cocktail Lounge 
Lunches starting at .... $4.25 Dinners starting at .... $5.95 Banquet rooms available up to 200 




GREAT \YALL 
Bar and Restaurant open 7 days a week 130 Dixie Way N., South Bend (next to Howard Johnson) 
The Society for Human Resource Management & the Management Association would like to invite everyone to attend the 
Donnelly Lecture Series 
In 
Participatory Management 


Robert J. Doyle 
Delta Management Group 
"The legacy of John F. Donnelly, Sr.: Participative Management at Work" 
Friday, October 4 jordan Auditorium, College of Business Administration 

12:40 -1 :55 PM 

Your one-of-a-kind source for everything you'll need to know. Watch for our In-Sites at www.kptngcatnpus.cotn 
~-----~--~---------~ 
Thursday, October 3, 1996 The Observer • NATIONAL NEWS page 5 
• ELECTION '96


Clinton, GOP clash over memo 
By MARCY GORDON Before the White House Elizabethtown, Pa., Hepublican 

Indiana registration 
A.<Sociarcd Press Writer relented in the travel office presidential nominee Bob Dole 
case, the House Government called on Clinton to release the WASIIINGTON Heform and Oversight memo. 

reaches record high 
For the second time this elec­Committee voted to seek a "The White House is evoking 
tion year, President Clinton and c;op lawmakers arc clashing over a White llousn executive 
privilege elaim. But neither side will say whether it's willing to push the matter to the 


Iega I brink L......o.-LC_I_in_t_o_n..._....., again. 
The latest dispute coneerns a memo to Clinton from the heads of the 
FBI and the Drug Enforcement Administration said to be highly critical or federal anti-drug pol­icy. Last spring, the White I louse and a GOP eongressional committen battled over 2,000 pages of doeuments related to thn White llouse travel ofrice firings in May 1993. 
criminal contempt charge against White House counsel Jack Quinn and two other White House aides. 
While not disclosing his next move, Hep. William Zeliff, R­N.II., chairman of the panel's national security subcommittee, said Tuesday his subcommittee would do everything possible to secure the memo by Louis Frech, director of the FBI, and Thomas Constantine, head of the Drug Enforcement Administration. 
Clinton took the rare step Tuesday of asserting presiden­tial privilege over the memo. 
"It concerns me a lot (because) Louis Frech is a guy I respect," Zeliff said in an inter­view. "We're going to do every­thing we can to get our hands on" the subpoenaed memo. 
While campaigning in 
executive privilege to keep that memo from seeing the light of day," he said. "Mr. President, it's time to release this memo so that the American people can see how bad your drug pol­icy has been over the past 44 months. We're going to demand it's release." 
At a hearing Tuesday, the subcommittee questioned White 
House  drug  czar  Barry  
McCaffrey,  Coast  Guard  
Commandant  Adm.  Hobert  

Kramek and others about a Pentagon-ordered report that found flaws in federal anti-drug policy. Some Republicans have accused McCaffrey of suppress­ing the report. 
Quinn told Zeliff in a letter, "The president has instructed me to inform you that he invokes executive privilege with respect to this document." 

By STEVE FARR 
Associated Press Writer 
INDIANAPOLIS 

Time is running out for would-be voters in Indiana, even as the number of those already registered reaches an all-time high. 
Monday is the deadline for Hoosiers to sign up to vote in the Nov. 5 election. But a last­minute stampede is unlikely, predicted Laurie P. Christie, co­director of the Indiana Election Commission. 
Nearly 3.4 million of Indiana's 
4.1 million eligible voters are already on the rolls, she said. 
"Our numbers are higher than they have ever been," Christie said Wednesday. She attributed most of the increase to the National Voter Hegistration Act that took effect 
ATTENTION JUNIORS!! ATTENTION SOPHOMO S!! 
COOPERS & LYB_!RAND 



OFFICE H:OURS 
Coopers & Lybrand L.L.P. will be on campus to hold office hours. Representatives will be available to talk one-on­one about internships, resume and interview tips,and to answer any questions you might have. C&L Office Hours is a casual event-business attire is not required. If you have a resume, please bring it and come talk to us: 
Friday, October 4, 1996 Dooley ROOlll (ROOOl 102) LaFortune Student Center 9:00 AM tO 5:00 PM 

NoT JUST KNOWLEDGE. KNow HOW. 



last Jan. 1. 

Most states have seen their voter rolls swell because of the "motor voter" law, she said. 
In Indiana, about 600,000 people have used it to sign up at places including Bureau of Motor Vehicle branches and public assistance offices. Two voter registration forms were sent out earlier this year with every Indiana income tax book­let. 
"I certainly think the accessi­bility has encouraged people to register who might not have previously," Christie said. 
About 3 million Indiana resi­dents were registered to vote in 1992, the last time an election included races for president. governor and other statewide offices. 
Christie expects voter turnout -as a percentage of registered voters -to drop this year from 1992's figure of 74 percent because of the larger voter pool. Many of the new voters are younger and less likely to votn than the middln-agnd and elder­ly suburbanites who regularly do, she said. 
"Obviously it's going to skew (the percentage) a little bit beeause with that many people registered you're going to have to have a huge turnout," Christie said. 
Robert Moats, student body president at Indiana University in Bloomington, hopes this year will bn different, though. Groups from the across the political spectrum joined together on the IU campus Wednesday for a two-day voting drive aimed at registering 2,000 students. 
"Students are really excited about registering to vote, but the key is to get students out to the polls," Moats said. "I think a lot of times the 18-to-25-year­olds don't think politieians speak to their issues, but mainly that's beeause their turnout is so low." 
Turnout ligures may also be affected by outdated rolls that still include duplications and people who have died or moved to another state. 
Aristotle Publishing of Washington D.C., which sells registration software, claimed last month that up to 20 percent of Indiana's registered voters were "deadwood." 

Diamond Importer and Jewelry Manufacturer looking for 


CAMPUS REP 
to earn extra income by distributing catalogs and taking orders. 
Engagement Rings, Wedding Rings and other Fine Jewelry 
\ \ I I / 
,~,.. Call Gordla Knox 
1-800-922-0090 
',;/ or email to sapeck@interaccess.com 


page 6 
The Observer • INTERNATIONAL NEWS Thursday, October 3, 1996 
• PERU • AFGHANISTAN 
Plane crash claims 70; U.N. envoy tries to contain conflict 

some may be Americans 
By ERIC LYMAN 
Associated Press W titer 
ANCON, Peru 
A Peruvian jetliner carrying 
70 people crashed into the 
Pacific Ocean early today 
after the pilot reported his 
navigational system had 
failed. There were no signs of 
survivors among the passen­
gers. 21 of whom boarded in 
Miami. 
Navy patrol boats found the wreckage of the plane 40 miles west of the town of Ancon this morning, said Adm. Jaime Monge, head of navy rescue operations. 
The plane's fuselage had split in half. Heavy fog was hampering efforts to locate anyone who might be alive in the frigid waters, he said. 
Aeroperu Flight 603 had flown from Miami to Lima and was en route to Santiago, Chile, when the pilot of the Boeing 757 said he no longer knew where he was. 
"What's happening? What altitude am I at? Why is my ground crash alarm on? Am I over land or sea?" the pilot said, according to Transportation Minister Elsa Carrera. 
Raul Chiappo, Miami opera­tions manager for Aeroperu, said the plane carried 20 pas­sengers who began their trip in Miami and one who board­ed there after flying in from John F. Kennedy airport in New York. 
It was not clear if any Americans were among the passengers. In Santiago, Interior Minister Carlos Figueroa said most of the pas­sengers were Chilean. 
The plane left Lima at 12:42 
a.m. today and the pilot reported mechanical failure 
five minutes later, asking to 
return to Lima, the airline 
statement said. 
The transportation minister said the tower told the pilot, Erick Schreiber. that he was over the ocean, and he then asked for a plane to guide him home to the airport. He was told a guide plane would arrive in 15 minutes. 
The tower lost contact with the plane at 1:10 a.m. 
The plane carried 61 pas­sengers and nine crew mem­bers. the airline said, although the 757 has a 180-person capacity. 
Armando Vicente, airport manager in Lima. said the air­craft was not the same plane that left Miami. Both the plane and crew were changed in Lima, but the flight number remained the same, he said. 
Jesus Herrera, a fisherman who lives in a wooden shack 40 feet from shore near Ancon, said he heard a rumble during the night. Ten minutes later. his shack was flooded with a surge of water. 
THE REALITIES OF MEXICO Arturo Ortega: Mexican singer & anthropologist 
ispeecii-a:n.a~-c-o-ncert ., 
I
:saturday, October 5 .7:30PM at the CSC 
free! refreshments provided! 
By ANWAR FARUQUI 
Associated Press Writer 
KABUL, Afghanistan 

The rebel fighters who con­trol most of Afghanistan clam­bered over the mountains north of Kabul on Wednesday, tightening their siege on the lone valley still in the hands of former government soldiers. 
Several hundred refugees anticipating more fighting were seen heading south toward Kabul, lugging bags of clothes and leading young children. They said the two sides were squared off about three miles apart. 
Meanwhile, a U.N. envoy tried desperately to prevent separate outbreaks of fighting in a nearby part of the coun­try. Norbert Holl met with northern warlord Rashid Dostum at his headquarters in Mazar-e-Sharif. 
Dostum 's army of ethnic Uzbeks and Tajiks, which con­trols most or all of seven northern provinces, is the only force standing in the way of complete Taliban control of Afghanistan. 
The warlord has reportedly sent 40,000 troops to bolster 

his front line. So far, Dostum has taken a neutral position between the 
government  troops  and  
Islamic rebels.  
There  was  no  word  late  

Wednesday on the progress of HoB's shuttle diplomacy. After meeting with Dostum, he flew to Kabul to meet the Taliban 

rebels. who captured the capi­
tal last week. 

The Taliban militia, made 
up of seminary students and 
clerics who want to impose 
their version of strict Islamic 
law on Afghanistan. have 
routed most of the smaller 
armies that have been fighting 
for years. 

In taking the capital Friday, the rebels overran fighters loyal to Ahmed Shah Massood, who had been shoring up the regime of President Burhanuddin Rabbani. 
The remnants of Massood's army are now trapped in the Panjshir Valley, about 150 northwest of Kabul. His sol­diers have dynamited the entrance to the valley and reportedly laid dozens of land mines in the area. 
But Wednesday, bearded Taliban soldiers with Kalashnikovs and rocket launchers slung over their shoulders hiked through the foothills of the Hindu Kush mountains aiming for the Panjshir Valley. They vowed to chase Massood out of Afghanistan or capture him and put him on trial as a war criminal. 
.. 
Thursday, October 3, 1996 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 7 


Campus Ministry••. 
Considerations... 
LIVING OUT THE GOSPEL OF LIFE: A HOPE FOR HEALING 
"But I feel that the greatest destroyer of peace today is abortion, because it is a war against the child, a direct killing of the innocent child, murder by the mother herself. And if we accept that a mother can kill even her own child, how can we tell people not to kill one another? ... Any country that accepts abortion is not teaching its people to love, bur to usc violence to get what they want. This is why rhe greatest destroyer of love and ·peace is abortion." (Mother Theresa, National Prayer Breakfast, Washington, D.C., February 3, 1994). 
Mother Theresa is on to something. Here is a woman who, like a doctor asked to give a checkup to a sick person, has accurately pinpointed a potentially fatal illness in the nick of time. America is nor well. We have lost the sense of the common good, of liberty and justice for all, and in our zeal for defending the absolute autonomy of the individual over anyone else, we are trampling on the voiceless and the defenseless. And our dream of liberty is dying. 
If we can accept the diagnosis, then we must recognize that we are a violent nation, especially violent towards those who can least defend themselves, or those who have committed crimes which have stripped them of dignity in our sight. What would those who founded our nation think? Unborn children are now a threat to our pursuit of happiness. They must be eliminated if they interfere. We no longer believe that we are endowed by the Creator with certain inalienable rights. Ifyour mind or health fails, then your life has no value. Thus euthanasia is increasingly upheld as the right to die and an act of charity. Prisoners on death row, because of what they have done, forfeit their humanity. The State seeks to undo their violence with a further act of violence. 
We have lost sight of the way of love. We have lost sight of the Body of Christ, espe­cially of its weaker parts, and their inestimable dignity in God's eyes. What will be our sorrow when one day we see that when we did these things to the least among us, we did it to Christ? What will be our sorrow when we realize that when we did these things, we did them to ourselves? When we abort, when we assist at a suicide, when we give someone a lethal injection, we are doing violence to our own body . 
Radical treatment is needed for this patient, for these United States. The prognosis is good if we will only see the Truth. All we need do is admit what we are doing. We are using violence to get what we want. 
Perhaps Notre Dame can take the lead in healing this land. Beginning October 6, Notre Dame will celebrate Respect Life Sunday. Our Eucharists that day will be for those who do violence, and for the defenseless who suffer violence. From October 6-13, Notre Dame Right to Life will celebrate Respect Life Week, with the theme: "Living Out the Gospel of Life." They will host the following events: 
10/6  2:15pm  Life Chain  
10/7  6:45pm  Pro-Life Rosary  
10/8  7:00pm  "Living Out the Gospel  
of Life: A Prayer for  
the Condemned"  
10/9  7:00pm  Litany for Life  
10/10 7:00pm  "Living Our the Gospel  
of Life: A Prayer  
for the Dying"  
10/11  6:30am­ Cemetery of Innocents  
6:30pm  
10113 7:00pm  "Living Out the Gospel  
of Life: A Prayer  
for the Unborn"  

Meet at Library Circle Grotto Walsh Hall Chapel Fr. Joe Ross, C.S.C. 
Field House Mall Dr. David Young, NO '77 Walsh Hall Chapel 
Library Mall 
Walsh Hall Chapel Liz Cenedella '97 
Pat Neary, C.S.C. 

Campus Ministry Events 
Thursday, CJctober 3-Thursday, October 10 
Power Lunch: Liturgy of the Eucharist Thursday, October 3, 12:45pm-1:45pm, Faculty Dining Room Memorial Eucharist for Henri Nouwen, followed by reception Thursday, October 3, 5:00pm, Chapel of the Holy Cross (Stanford-Keenan Chapel) Freshman Retreat Friday-Saturday, October 4-5, St. Joe Hall (Sacred Heart Parish Center) Commissioning Sunday for those who will minister at the Basilica. All masses. Eucharistic Minister Workshop Sunday, October 6, 2:30pm, Basilica of the Sacred Heart Reioice! (Black Catholic Mass) -ALL are welcome! 
' 
Sunday, October 6, 4:00pm, Fisher Hall Chapel 
Campus Bible Study Tuesdays, 7:00pm, Campus Ministry-Badin Hall 
KAIROS (4th day): Women in the Church-Sr. Regina Coli, C.S.I. Wednesday, October 9, 7:30pm, Chapel of the Holy Cross (Stanford-Keenan Chapel) 
Power Lunch: Voting and Values Thursday, October 10, 12:45-1:45pm, Faculty Dining Room 
TWENTY-SEVENTH SUNDAY IN ORDINARY TIME 

WEEKEND PRESIDERS 


Scripture Readings For 

AT SACRED HEART BASILICA 


This Coming Sunday 

Saturday October 5 5:00pm Rev. James Flanigan, C.S.C. 
1st Reading Isaiah 5: 1.. 7 2nd Reading Philippians 4: 6..9

Sunday October 6 I O:OOam Rev. Patrick Neary, C.S.C. I 1:45am Rev. Richard Warner, C.S.C. 
Gospel Matthew 21: 33..43 





VIEWPOINT 
page 8 Thursday, October 3, 1996 
THE OBSERVER 
NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1996-97 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Elizabeth Foran Managing Editors Business Manager Patricia Carson Matt Casey 
Tom Roland News Editor ....................... Brad Prendergast Advertising Manager ............................ EIIen Ryan Viewpoint Editor .................. Ethan Hayward Ad Design Manager ............................... Jed Peters Sports Editor .................... Timothy Sherman Production Manager.......................Tara Grieshop Accent Editor ........................... Joey Crawford Systems Manager.... . ..... Michael Brouiller 
Saint Mary's Editor ................. Caroline Blum Controller .......................................... Tyler Weber Photo Editor .......................... Michael Ruma 
The Observer is rhe independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame: du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does nor necessarily reflect the policies of rhe administra­tion of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned edi­torials represc:nr the: opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside: Columns present the views of the amhors, and not necessarily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available: to all members of the Notre: Damc:/Sainr Mary's com­municy and to all readers. The: free: expression of varying opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Editor-in-Chief Managing Ediror/Viewpoim Sports News/Photo Accent/Saint Mary's Day Editor/Production General Information 
Observer Phone Lines 
631-4542 Business Office 631-5313 631-4541 Advertising 631-6900/8840 631-4543 Systems/Marketing Dept. 631-8839 631-5323 Office Manager 631-7471 631-4540 Fax 631-6927 631-5303 Viewpoint E-Mail Viewpoint.l@nd.edu 631-7471 Ad E-Mail observer@darwin.cc.nd.edu 


• lETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Theology dept. seeks to open dialogue 
Dear Editor: 
On Sept. 26, The Observer ran an article on the recent discus­sion of the Father Richard McBrien's Catholicism (Revised & Updated Edition, 1994). I wish to supplement this article with further information. 
On May 3, 30 members of the University's theology department endorsed three resolutions concerning the Committee on Doctrine's refusal to follow the procedures for "formal doctrinal dialogue" of the National Conference of Catholic Bishops (NCCB) in issuing its "general review" of Catholicism. 
These· three resolutions were then endorsed on June 7 by 80 percent to 90 percent of the approximately 450 members of the Catholic Theological Society of America (CTSA). assembled at their annual convention in San Diego. The CTSA subsequently sent the resolutions to the NCCB's president, Archbishop Anthony Pilla, and also to all U.S. bishops. 
The three resolutions read as follows: 
1) RESOLVED: that the CTSA deplores the refusal of the NCCB's Committee on Doctrine to grant "formal doctrinal dialogue" to Richard McBrien regarding the Committee's "general review" {)f the completely revised and updated edition of his Catholicism. published in 1994. 
2) HESOLVED: That the CTSA interprets this refusal as a disre­gard of the NCCB's own guidelines contained in "Doctrinal Responsibilities: Approaches to Promoting Cooperation and Resolving Misunderstandings Between Bishops and Theologians" that the bishops adopted in June 1989 by a vote of 214-9, and that was reviewed by the Holy See. 
3) RESOLVED: That Resolutions One and Two be sent to the NCCB's president, Bishop Anthony Pilla, with copies to the other members of the NCCB. 
In sum, by endorsing these three resolutions, the overwhelm­ing majority of members of our University's theology department and also of the CTSA voiced their serious concern about the fact that one committee of the NCCB chose to set aside the U.S. bish­ops' agreed upon procedures. 
Interestingly, the first and second editions of Catholicism (1980) sold 165,000 copies, and the third edition (1994) has already sold over 30,000 copies. Also, the third edition includes a laudatory foreword by the Notre Dame's President Emeritus, Father Theodore Hesburgh, CSC. 
ROBERT KRIEG, CSC Associate Professor, Theology 
• DOONESBURY 
I KNOW YaJ'R& NOTPAR:r OF TH& !<&TAIL-5iC&N& ANY­/Yf01<13,8UTCANYOU7HIN!<OP ANYON61-f/HO C{){)WGE;TU5 AN &MfiR6lJNt/YSHIPMENT? 

ND obliged to curb drinking 
Dear Editor: 
I would like to congratulate Thomas Coyne publicly on the publishing. of his column entitled "In defense of an undergraduate's best friend." Indeed, it's not everyday that such a monumen­tally pathetic and dangerously ignorant piece of writing finds its way into print. 
In one of the more inane passages, he states (presumably with a straight face), "Lurking in the shadows of your social life, 'The Man' 
'Notre Dame is an institute of 
higher learning, not an amusement park or a booth at Oktoberfest. It has the legal and moral obligation to oppose, both in theory and in practice, the act of underage drinking.' 
awaits. patiently and purposely picking away at this campus' long-time tradition of exorbitant underage intoxication." Simply amazing. How anyone that is capable of using the word "exor­bitant" correctly could write such an incredibly ludicrous sentence is beyond me. 
For Coyne's information, Notre Dame is an institute of higher learning, not an amusement park or a booth at Oktoberfest. It has the legal and moral obligation to oppose, both in theory and practice, the act of underage drinking. As he later points out, the sad reality is that stu­dents are not likely to cooperate. 
This fact, however, changes nothing -the administration is still bound by a responsibility to speak and act against underage drinking at all times. 
On the other hand, they bear no responsibility when it comes to filling one's free time with endless bliss. If you're feeling ,particularly bored, why not try some volunteer work or com­munity service? No, of course not -that (to borrow a phrase from George Carlin) might be something Christ would do. It's so much easier to sit back with a few friends, toss down a cold one, and blame the University for "treating [you] like children." Well, if the shoe fits ... 
But no, better to shift the stains of guilt else­where-"We're bored and we're horny," he writes. Ah yes, the sweet mantra of the hopeless romantics, the sensitive words of those whose idea of foreplay is waiting for the girl to pass out. Tell me, when the "sloppy fun and sexual deviance" Coyne speaks of finally do spill over into the land of harassment and date rape, then who will he blame? Never mind-! think I know that answer already. She was asking for it, right? 
So is Coyne. I would like to think that I have this all wwng, that I misread something and incorrectly divined his true philosophy. Unfortunately, however. I know that even if that were the case, plenty of others at this University would step forward to pick up where Coyne apparently left off. I am fully aware that I am squarely in the minority when it comes to this issue and that. this letter will not be received particularly well by the average member of the student body. That is of absolutely no concern whatsoever to me. 
What does concern me is that the "national leaders... of drunkenness" who read and enjoy Coyne's column over liquid lunches have all been asking for it for quite a while. And while I'll be more than happy to chalk things up to natural selection when the end rolls around, those closer to the victim may find more tragedy in that evening when they finally misjudged their limit or in that night when they were sure they felt sober enough to drive home. 
In any case, I'm sure it won't be their fault ­like Coyne, they will point their fingers directly at the Golden Dome. In my opinion. however, the only thing that the Notre Dame should be ashamed of is that it has produced minds such as his. Cheers. 
S.E. OROSS 
Junior Keough Hall 
GARRY TRUDEAU 

al/31.),, I COUUJ lRY 
Yf3AH,

/iJI5. H£'9 ANOW ti!HAT~ 
TRY97'0NliR. FI</&NP OF H& 

WIS.

MIN~ l-fiHO (j(JTKJCI<£[? !?Of' OtffOF HIGH§0-fOO/..-,. I 
I

I 
• 0UOTE OF THE DAY 
"The sole purpose of 

human existence is to 
kindle a light of meaning in 
the darkness of mere being." 
-CarlJung 


VIEWPOINT
Thursday, October 3, 1996 page 9 
• LETTERS To THE EDITOR 
Drinking, hinging differ 
Dear Editor: 
In what is becoming known as "The Year of the Whine:" there have been numerous letters, articles and columns about the role of alcohol on the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's campuses. A Saint Mary's senior was upset because she heard that her dorm would hold her account­able if she came home drunk and woke people. An earlier column feared that the campus would go dry. I laving learned that his dorm had initiat­ml a znro tolerance for inebriation campaign, an ND senior stated that his rights were being vio­latml. A very recent addition to the discussion is the column by Thomas Coyne, labeled "In defense of an undergraduate's best friend." 
I knew a student here whose best friend was alcohol. lie was always ready to go out, usually dosed the bars, found himself' coming-to the rwxt morning forgetting what had happened the night before, or worse, partially remembering. Ill~. like so many of those whose opinions on the subject have appeared in The Observer this year, could not distinguish between drinking and being drunk. Eventually, there became no distinction. To drink was to get drunk. To drink and not get drunk was to not drink. 
lie, too, thought that he drank as he did bt~eausc there was nothing else to do and that drinking was the only way to deal with his sexu­ality. It never dawrwd on him that there were many more students who were not drinking the way that he did, had plenty to do, and were d1~aling with their s1~xuality without getting drunk. That perception never dawned on him because lw was very careful to avoid sueh peo­ple. 
Also, they were very careful to avoid him, so that his isolation and loneliness increased. His rnsponse'? Increase the drinking. Soon, the only times he felt alive were when he was drunk. But his life bt~r.ame unmanageable. lie did pretty well in school-ev1m graduated early. 
For the next five years he lost every job that he got and was unmnployed as often as he was ~~mployed. Financial problems were severe. He was completely cut off from his family, friends and the world. lie found himself on one of many skid-rows. praying for death, which he saw as 
• KEVORKIAN KORNER 
the only way out. lie didn't want to kill himself; he just wanted death to happen. 
I paid to have the Harvard study referred to in Coyne's column which ran Sept. 19. I did so because I felt it very important that distinctions between drinking and hinging be made and that people have an understanding of those distinc­tions not so much for themselves-those who binge seem unable to make any such distinc­tion-but for their acquaintances and friends, so that they can recognize when there is a problem and make sure that something gets done about it, so those friends don't end up on skidcrow praying for death. 
The study ends with 12 recommendations as to what colleges might do to deal with the problem of binge drinking. I couldn't afford to place them in the summary ad, so I'll include them here. I hope that the dialogue and discussion about the role of alcohol on the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's campuses will continue. I hope that the whining will not. A"TWELVE-STEP" PROGRAM From the Harvard School of Public Health College Alcohol Study 
1. 
Access the ways in which alcohol is affecting your college. 

2. 
Admit your college has an alcohol problem. 

3. 
A systematic effort begins with the president. 

4. 
Plan for a long-term effort. 

5. 
Involve everyone in the solution. 

6. 
Involve the local community in your efforts. 

7. 
Establish the rights of non-hinging students. 

8. 
Target disruptive behavior for disciplinary action. 

9. 
Address problem drinking at fraternities and sororities. 1 O.Provide a full-time education for a full-time tuition. 11.Encourage problem drinkers to seek help or treatment. 12.Freshmen orientation should start long before students arrive on campus. l would be happy to make an explanation of each of these steps to whomever might wish. 


STEPHEN NE~ON,CSC 
Rector, Sorin Hall 

ND must devote itself to graduate education 
Dear Editor: 

This letter is in response to the Sept. 10 article on the U.S. News and World Report ranking of Notre Dame. In the article, student president Seth Miller complains that the ranking of Notre Dame as 17th in the country is not an accurate reflection of the worth of an undergraduate education at Notre Dame because Notre Dame is being compared to universities which focus on graduate as well as undergraduate education. 
While undergraduate education is excellent at Notre Dame, the 
U.S. News and World Report ranking needs to be taken serious­ly. If Notre Dame wishes to climb out of the 17th or so ranking that it holds today, it must devote more resources to graduate education. There are some very fine graduate programs on Notre Dame's campus today-it might well be that these pro­grams saved Notre Dame from a lower ranking. 
However, there are many areas in which graduate education can be improved at Notre Dame; departments with Ph.D. pro­grams need increased resources in order to recruit, retain, and place their graduate students, and graduate students themselves need to feel more welcomed into the Notre Dame family. The lack of adequate health insurance, housing, funding, and teach­ing opportunities are some of the recurring problems graduate students face at Notre Dame. 
We must not hold to the misconception that improving gradu­ate education comes at the expense of undergraduate education. Most immediately, good graduate students make good TAs. Resources which graduate students need, such as libraries and labs, are used by undergraduates as well. Top faculty can be attracted to a university by the caliber of its graduate students; they will teach students of every level. But these are just the fringe benefits of having a large and active graduate community. 
Graduate students contribute a great deal to a university's general intellectual climate. They bring energy, interest, com­mitment, diversity, and new ideas into the university. The intel­lectual climate of a university is shared by all its members, undergraduate students included. There are very good reasons why the U.S. News and World researchers stress graduate edu­cation in their rankings of national universities. Improving grad­uate education at Notre Dame is the only way to make Notre Dame one of the top ten universities in the country. 
RACHEL KOOPMANS 
Graduate student in rhe Medieval lnstirute 

Agnew paved way for modern-day 'polarizers' 
The death of Spiro Agnew probably won't get much coverage on TV. He was not the sort of statesman either candi­date wants to be photographed attend­ing the funeral of, nor docs he recall an era either candidate wants anyone reminded of. In fact, a phrase he once used, "the forgotten man of American 

Josh Ozersky 

politics," has become an apt description of himself. llis passing deserves men­tion, however. because in many ways Agnew was the pioneer of the political landscape in which we now live. Without Agnew, no Heagan, no Buchanan, no Newt. No ease of Quayle vs. Murphy Brown; no Dole vs. the movies; no Ross Perot vs. the Commission on Presidential Debates. 
President Clinton. too, learned his lessons from Agnew; they all did. Without Nixon's truculent first Vice President, the relationship between the presidency and television might have been different. 
llenry Clay was known as the Great Compromiser. Agnew ought to be called thn Great Polarizer. 
"If, in challenging, we polarize the Amnrican people," he onr.fl said, "I say it is time for a positive polarization. It is time to rip away the rhetoric and divide on authentic lines." 
The rhetoric, however, was precisely what Agnew provided; the polarization followed it like the wake behind a battle­ship. 
He was President Nixon's hatchet man. Think of that. Agnew performed roles too bellicose and alienating for Nixon. Doing so took an earnestness that was impossible to feign and would have required impossible courage from a more sensitive man. lie was reactionary to his bones, but in a heartfelt, dogged way which transcended political expedi­ence. (Actually, he was not a very canny politician. As his biographer, Robert Marsh. points out, "Agnew appears to have invented a new mode of politics ­upward mobility through failure: indeed, he has proved the Peter Principle in reverse.) Sincerity, however, was not enough to grant him political immortali­ty. 
He lucked into his role as Nixon's point man in Nixon's war against the media, and relished it. With one Patrick Buchanan scripting the way, Agnew, still in search of his role within the adminis­tration, took to the airwaves on Nov. 13 in Des Moines, Iowa, addressing a regional meeting of Hepublicans. The networks had been warned that "it would be wise" to cover the speech live. Nixon was incensed at what he saw as the anti-Administration, anti-war biases of the networks. In particular, they had covered protesters on Moratorium Day in a late-night wrap-up. To make mat­ters worse, after Nixon's famous appeal to "the silent majority," the networks provided what, in retrospect, was fairly balanced coverage, including an inter­view with diplomat Averill Harriman, who criticized the Administration round­ly. Agnew was dispatched to fire the first salvo, and the rest is history. 
"A national masochism prevails," Agnew said four days later, "encouraged by an effete corps of impudent snobs who characterize themselves as intellec­tuals." 
In Des Moines, on the air, he took the point further, excoriating "this little group of men who do not only enjoy a right of instant rebuttal to every presi­dential address, but, more importantly, 
'Agnew performed roles 
too bellicose and 
alienating for Nixon. Doing 
so took an earnestness that 
was impossible to feign and 
would have required 
impossible courage from a 
more sensitive man. He was 
reactionary to his bones, 
but in a heartfelt, dogged 
way which transcended 
political expedience.' 
wield a free hand in selecting, present­ing and interpreting the great issues of our nation." 
The upshot of this attack on the media was that Agnew became an enormous media event, a TV celebrity in his own right. "Spiro is our hero" bumper stick­ers went up across the country. Agnew's rhetoric become stylized, self-parodic ­"Nattering Nabobs of Negativism," "a cry of alarm to penetrate the cacophony of seditious drivel" -and in so doing laid the groundwork for the recurring, self-serving assaults on television which would become such an essential part of every politician's television strategy. But another of Agnew's discoveries was more significant for posterity. 

Agnew stumbled across one of the fun­damental principles of political culture in the TV Age, of which even Nixon was not aware. Until that time, it was assumed by most politicians that, inso­far as TV was a medium to power, it rewarded those who were appealing. This is still the received notion about the Nixon-Kennedy debates -that Kennedy won because he was clean-shaven and relaxed-looking. Politicians from Estes Kefauver all the way through Nixon believed they had to be telegenic; even the fall of Senator McCarthy was credit­ed to his appearance on "See It Now" and the Army-McCarthy hearings. Agnew was the opposite of telegenic, and yet he bestrode the broadcast spec­trum like a colossus. lie was a polarizer, poison to television, with its philosophy of Least Objectionable Programming; and yet he was a media event unto him­self. And lastly, he flayed television, and "masochistic" just as he claimed, it came back for more every night. 
In recent years, anti-telegenic forces have utilized TV's blindness for their own effect, often for the same polarizing purposes as the master. TV doesn't care about ugly or handsome, for TV or against TV; it cares even less for approval or disapproval. Politicians today know that one doesn't have to be telegenic to be a "great communicator." Just be mean enough, and the camera will eat you up. 
Joshua Ozersky is a doctoral student in the history department and is cur­rently at work on a book on television in the 1970s. fie can be reached at Joshua.A.Ozersky.l@nd.edu. 
page 10 
• CLASSICAL COLUMN 
Weird music for 
late nights and 

campus concert 
By MICHAEL ANDERSON and JULIE BRUBAKER Accent Writers 
Notre Dame is simply known for its excitement and wide variety of things to do. For example, if you don't have an SYR to go to, there's always that movie at Cushing .... 
However, most students seem to end up at Jazzman's, C.J.'s, Corby's, Senior Bar, etc. But what is there to do after you come home??? 
In that brief interval between arriving home and crashing into a warm bed, we have a suggestion for you when you unwind: weird music. 
Here is a collection of works that just refuse to be confined by the predetermined rules of music. Truly, this kind of music makes the band Slayer look like a bunch of choir boys. 
Some very "talented" and renowned twentieth century composers began addressing questions such as "Does a musi­cal composition have to have notes in it?" or "Can nature determine the structure of a composition?" 
The catch is that these composers were entirely legitimate and even considered avant-garde. We've compiled a short list of some 'must-hear's from the twentieth century collection: 
Pierrot Lunaire -This Arnold Schonberg work features a "moonstruck" character accompanied by an odd combination of instruments. The opening line is "The wine which only eyes can drink ... " The rest gets stranger. 
Einstein on the Beach -You want something that can cast you into dreamland-try a violin playing the same three notes for four hours. Philip Glass calls it an 'opera.' We call it minimalism, and if you aren't hypnotized, the music has failed. 
Atmospheres -This piece by Ligeti uses the concept of sound mass to achieve an orchestral sound that is immensely clustered: no melody, no rhythm, no structure. It sounds like a re~lly intense nightmare. This song makes you feel1ike you got hit over the head with a shovel at some points, but relief from the pain is in sight as the texture thins over time. 
The Banshee-Henry Cowell's music is always a treat on a stormy night in South Bend. This kind of music encourages the traditional grand piano to be plucked and raked from the inside, making for some thunderous effects. It's weird, but a big hit at some dorm parties. 
Black Angels-Here's a piece to get the frustration out. George Crumb's "electrified" stringed instruments are pierc­ing. If you keep this 'music' ·On while you sleep, you are guaranteed dreams about fighting in past world wars or being attacked by swarming bees. 
And who could forget John Cage with his principles of found music and aleatoric music? This man made a pro­found impact on avant garde music. Try Cage's "4:33" (Four minutes and thirty-three seconds). The piece is performed with a stop watch and a piano, if desired. You won't hear anything -unless you make a sound! 
Or try his Sonatas and Preludes for the "prepared piano" '­the instrument that has an indeterminate amount ofnails and screws in it. 
This music is all available at the library. Make a tape for yourself and witness the effects of really WEIRD music! 
Although listening to CD's and tapes has its advantages, the 'real thing' is always much more exciting. And excitment is a key word for this Sunday's concert. 
At 2 p.m. on Sunday October 6 in the Annenberg Auditorium at the Snite Museum of Art, The Percussion Group will present a spectacular concert (of pretty weird music). This is really something no one should miss. 
The Percussion Group, comprised of three faculty members from the University of Cincinnati, is nothing like our march­ing band's drum line. 
Yes, they will bring drums, but you can expect a stellar concert of 'chamber music' performed on anything from amplified cactus needles to garbage cans. 
This, beyond a doupt, promises to be the most stunning and entertaining concert of the year (perhaps, even better than Dave Matthews -ifyou don't believe us, come see for your­selO. Imagine -three men dressed in black making amazing music out of such things as seashells, plants, and Mop'n'Glo bottles -weird!. They will rock you out of your seat with their rhythms and beats -it will defmitely be a 'jam session.' 
No matter what type of music you prefer, The Percussion Group will entertain and amaze you. So if you want to add a little spice to your Sunday afternoon, come join us at the Suite, where you'll see 'music' that sparks the imagination and challenges its traditional definitions. 
;ACS~NT :Thursday, October 3, 1996 

Sk<3lcoholiks add new flavor to NO scene 
:By DAN CICHALSKl 
Assistant Accent Editor 
W
ith all the bands that have sprouted on the Notre Dame campus, it would seem like there is nothing that has yet to be done. No new · covers. No new styles. No new 
ideas. Until the Skalcoholiks formed. The band name combines the 
group's style of music (ska) with a term that is thrown around campus frequently, though usually in a lighthearted manner. You could say they are addicted to ska. 
Ska. Yup, it's a word. In fact, it's a genre of music derived from Jamaican and British rhythms. Traditionally, horns are involved. 
The Skalcoholiks are comprised of Joe Cruz on bass guitar, Mike Bechtel on lead guitar, Noah Gray on drums, Tim Bowers on vocals, Tony Eltink on bass trombone, Paula Conolly on saxa­phone, and Dave Griffith on trombone. 
At the end of the spring semester, five members of the Notre Dame Marching Band got together with Cruz and Bechtel and made a tape. "We had some songs that we hoped we could cover," said Bowers. "And we started this semester." 
From there they selected some of their favorite songs from established bands to cover and looked ahead to this fall when they would go public with their love and talent for music. 
Following a popular debut September 20 at an off-campus party, Skalcoholiks follow up their premiere with two ap­pearances this Friday. 
The Lewis Hall Jerk and Pull will serve as the band's campus debut when they take the stage at or after 4 p.m. The follow­up will take place later in the 
evening at Jazzman's, where they expect to go on around 
10:30 p.m. 
Currently, their set list con­sists only of covers of songs by contemporary groups, but soon the band will begin fine-tuning their ideas and writing their own compositions. "We plan on writing though. We think that's really important. We don't want to be labeled as a cover band but we needed a base to start out with. Soon we hope to start working in orginals [to the sets] and taking out covers," Bowers said. 
But even the covers are a change from standard Grateful Dead or R.E.M. classics. 
The Mighty Mighty Bosstones, perhaps the most popular ska band today, is a favorite of the 
Skalcoholiks. Goldfinger a n d They 
Might Be 
Giants 
will also be honored by the sincerest form of flattery (imitation). "A lot of the songs might be new to people," Bowers explained. "We're trying to present some­thing that Notre Dame students haven't really been exposed to." 
And during the hornless part of the performance-when Eltink, Conolly, and Griffith take a break to rest their lips and lungs-listeners will be treated to some Beastie Boys. 

"As a band we have a lot of different influences. We all have a different type of back­ground. We all love the ska music because it's so upbeat, so much fun to play, so energetic. It's the type of music that lis­teners can really get involved 
with  and  let  loose,"  said  
Bowers.  
The  off-campus  gig  two  

weeks ago was such a success that Skalcoholiks played two sets-of the same nine songs. But in just a few practices since then, the band has doubled their repitoire and plans on rocking Jazzman's with nine­teen impressive renditions. 
"We had nine songs. [Monday] we added three.... [Tuesday] we added another three songs.... And [last night] we worked on another four," Bowers explained. "If all goes well, we'll have added ten songs in three days, whieh is phenome­
nal for us." 

With six of the Skaleoholiks in their junior year at Notre Dame and the seventh (Cruz) a fourth-ynar architecture major, the band expects to be around and performing for the Notre Dame community 
into 1998. 

"We're all very togeth­er, we're very into it. Everyone gets along wonderfully. Everyone listens to 
one another. There's no real 'head honcho.' We have a very good working rela­tionship," Bowers said. 
The only catch will be this coming spring, when Bechtel spends the semester abroad in London. Skalcoholiks hope to continue performing until May by finding someone to take Bechtel's place while he is away. 
"Energy. That's why we play ska. It's a lot of fun to play, we enjoy it. If we were playing Mariah Carey we just wouldn't have a good time.'' 
R.E.M. New Adventures in Hi-Fi 
*** 


N'E W· AD V E N T U R E S I N H I -F I 
group over the past years. 
Their only other work to which this is comparable in quality is the unexceptional "Fables of the Reconstruction", but like that 
Courtesy of I.R.S. Records album there is a 


ing bars of "How the West was Won" there is an almost universal lack of inspiration and gone are the catchy tunes we have come to asso­ciate with this 

P
rojecting a mood as somber as the Irish dressing room late last saturday afternoon, the first R.E.M. album for almost two years will very likely win them few new friends and come as a disappointment to their many fans. 
It is a difficult experience for the listener, for from the open-
moment of respite; today the track "Leave" pro­vides an example of why many people think R.E.M. to be the best band in the world. It is a jarring, profound few minutes of intense questioning with Stipe's voice achieving levels of emotional fervor sadly missing in the other thirteen tracks. 
To get to the heart of the issue, it appears as if R.E.M. 

(out of five) 
have temporarily lost their proven ability to write memo­rable songs. 
In all of their previous works there are perhaps few (if any) worse songs than "Departure", which suffers from sounding as if it was produced by a talent­less ensemble of R.E.M. imper­sonators. "Bittersweet Me" unbelievably contains the tired and cliched line "I don't know what I want anymore", and it certainly seems as if Stipe doesn't know what to do with a song anymore. 
All we can do is long for the days of "Automatic." 
Amidst this unusual medioc­rity there is contained the pos­sibility that R.E.M. will return to form; it is too soon yet to write them off. 
For the present however we must grimace and unhappily listen to a second rate work from a band who have repeat­edly proven that they can do much, much better. 
-by Julian Elliot 



-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 
Thursday, October 3, 1996 
• WVFI CORNER 
TOOL 
/Enima 
(out**of five) 
W
hen you name one of your songs "llooker with a Penis", there is only a certain level of artistic intngrity you can even hope to achieve. It's the music equivalent to sPlting out to paint your piece-de-n1sistance after pieking up a nien big sheet of black V!~lvot. 
Tool, how1wer. embraces their carnival sideshow aesthetic, which after two albums has boeonw as horrific and disturbing as an npisodn of "MTV Oddities." I practically pre­dicted limling the picture of a naked contor­tionist on the CD. 
Tho boys in Tool can play their instruments. Unfortunately, llwy'vn nvolved into the metal parallel ol' a llorde tour band. The songs lack direction, and mnander for nine minutes at tinws. Tl111 drum solos, sustained screams, and distortml wah guitar offeet arc routine by now for Tool. 
llnf'ortunatdy, the industrial virus has strick­Pn Tooll.oo. Like nunwrous modnrn nwtal bands who have se1m Blade Hunner mw too many time 
(i.e. c;ravity Kills, Stabbing Westward) Tool deridPd that fast-food drive-thru speaker vocal 
WSND sets Noeturne Nightflight fall




W~ND W~ND 
~X.9 FM 88.9 FM
program schedule 
By KATE HILLMAN (;uest Accent Writer 
Sunday: If you want the answers to the next CIIEM 117 exam in addition to some of life's most profound questions (i.e. hunger, world peace, who won the mud wrestling match between Nel Cartnr and Tito Ja1:kson), then climb aboard Gina Veccihone and Jeff Faragher's Choo Choo Train to Pleasureville where everyone listening has got a one-way ticket 'cause we can't guarantee a ride honw. Thn music? You'll lovn it. The Connells to The Ocean Blue. Lenny Kravitz to the Tragically I lip. And sonwday, through blood, sweat and Jeff's tears(cause he's a sensitive guy), someday we hopn to bn to Notre Dame what Dave and Donna were to West Beverly. 
Monday: Tune in Mark "Superjock" Hoscnberg and Matt "LJ" Loughran for freshly sliced tracks hand-pieked for you and your whole family from WSND's Vault of Contemporary College Musie. Along with the bnst from The Hed Hot Chili Peppers, Emmet Swimming, Iggy Pop, Rage Against the Machine. the Screamin' Cheetah Wheelies and many other fabulous artists, you'll expe­rinnco contests for amazing prizes, wonderfully crafted jokes and the occasional technical difficulty. It's over 98% fat free and much more savory than liver and onions. 
Tuesday: Between Kissin' Time with the four masked marauders from KISS and getting the Led out with Zepplin every week at 1 a.m., Kevin "KJ" Hini and Johnny "Bird" Gavula's Nocturne Nightflight peppers Notre Dame's best college music with the greatest classic rock of all time. Solve K.J's "Tri-Bond" riddle or Johnny Bird's movie quote to win the latest cutting edge alternative CD's. l.isl!m as the Bird spews useless facts from the depths of his mind and witness KJ's stunning wit as he keeps the show from sinking into its own twisted stew while experiencing musie from bands sud1 as Oasis, Smashing Pumpkins, Weczer and the Melvins. 
Wednesday: Nate "DdOgGg" Hackicwicz and Steve Bartman welcome you to the Land of Bart where tlwse two showcase the top of the college charts, such as The Cure, 311 and Sublime, as well as showcasing Notre Dame talent, holding contests and CD give-aways. They offer a great deal of insight into the musie they play, as they have come into personal contact with many musical artists through Nate's work at the modern rock radio station in washington D.C. and Bartman's contacts in the Chicago musie sennn. Listen to their zany stories as they tell tales from backstage about IU:.M .. llishwalla, the Hefreshmcnts, Jawbox, Goldfinger, Garbage, Filter, Everdear, No Doubt and Poe. 
Thursday: .loin Kamom Mwanika and Ken O'Keefe on Thursday nights where Nocturne fea­tun~s raw alternative rock tracks balanced with the best of today's hip-hop flava's. From the more commonly known acts such as A Tribe Called Quest, The Beastie Boys and Primus to the newer sounds of The Cardigans, Groove Collective and Catherine, this show will take its listeners 360 degrees. 
Friday: It's party time in Michiana! Tune into 88.9 FM every Friday night and join the biggest and lwst party in town with your special hosts Stclios Vouzoukas and Eric Francis. Each week we showcase the hotl!~st dub hits in Eurodance, Eurobeat, House, Techno, Jungle and Ambient. Club l·:urope also brings to you the current Eurocharts and some great contests. It's action, it's passion, it's hot rhythm. Club Europe: the beat of your heart! 
Courtesy of Zoo Records 
effects would add a fresh. Nineties flavor. 
Six of the fifteen tracks are little more than fuzzy keyboard throw-away interludes. The low point comes on "Die Eier von Satan," when a German narrative is laid over some NIN trashcan beats. Sadly, Tool supposes that the German language will trigger latent Germanophobia of a stereotypical gothic, expressionistic people. 
At best, A~nima only mimics Tools second LP, 
Undertow. 

Borrowing from indie-rock, Tool has found a fondness for stop-start tempos and fluctuations between quiet and full-blast rock, and the drums borrow quite heavily from Hush. However, Tool feels the need to flaunt their talents like a new tattoo. In this case the tat­too would most likely be a skull with a snake surrounded in black flame. 
-by Brent IJiCrescenzo 
page 11 


WVFI op 20 
8. Sebadoh-Harmacy 
9. Yo La Tengo -Selections From 

10. Squirrel Nut Zi!ers -Hot! 
II. Des~~dents-E .·· j,!hlngSuc~s . 
12. Sublime-Subl.me, 
13. 
Ramones-Greff-te~!·Hi~s · 

14. 
Mono Puff -Utt~ufi'l~rvised 


Unwound,.. Repetition :1...
.. rr.,..n ;• 
Player"/"The Ride" ~7" 
. . ·?f":~ ;~. :. 
. W'j.. .
'Jfks·Scared Straighf:;~t_" oo:f:.:wo Lunch ' · · 
r·=: ·I 



·,WSND 

NoSurne Top 20 
l. Luscious Jackson :; Naked Eye 
2. Pusherman -F/.oo~ed 
3. Trainspotting Soundtrack 
4. 
Mango Jam -Flux .. 

5. 
Soul Coughing -Irrilfiible Bliss tj 


6. Social Distortion-White Light, White J Heat, White Trash dJ 
7. 
The temonheads-Car1utton Cloth 

8. 
Ph~h. ·"Free" single 

9. 
GrJove;Collective-We Are the Peol/l I0. R.E.M. ·New 


11. Les C~ool ­
·~ 
12. The Connells ­
\~. 
Devestation 
13. Lisa Germano -~<.bfto.o-.....,...,,.~Y".nrn 
r
Circus 

page 12 The Observer· SPORTS Thursday, October 3, 1996 
• COLLEGE fOOTBALL 
Noble ready to take out frustrations on Buckeyes 
ByDAVEIVEY Associated Press Writer 
STATE COLLEGE, Pa. 
Penn State defensive tackle Brandon Noble says his on-field hyperactivity stems from a yearlong injury and illness-in­duced inactivity three seasons ago. 
The 6-foot-2, 270-pound se­nior, among the leading tack­lers for the No. 4 Nittany Lions (5-0, 1-0 Big Ten), sat the en­tire 1993 season with a broken leg and had to withdraw from school the following spring with mononucleosis. 
"That was a rough year," 
Noble said. "I lost lots of weight and I was kind of nervous about coming back, but football kept me going -there was no way I was going to quit on it." 
Noble is second on the team in both tackles (32) and sacks (three) going into Saturday's showdown at No. 3 Ohio State (3-0, 0-0), despite drawing con­stant double-teams at his right tackle position. 
Penn State coach Joe Paterno said Noble's success is based on a frenetic playing style. 
"He's quick and he never gives up," Paterno said. "He keeps after you until he gets you or gets knocked down try­ing." 
That level of activity is a far cry from how Noble spent his semester at home with mono, an illness that saps the afflicted person's energy. 
"I read a lot of books and watched too much TV," he said. "For two or three weeks, I could not get out of bed. I lost like 30 pounds. Basically, I just laid there in the dark and slept." 
With most of his high school friends away at college, Noble found relief from his perpetual boredom in television, watching "whatever was on." 
"In fact, one of our couches still has a big divot in it from where I'd sat in it for three months," said the Virginia Beach, Va., native. 
Noble, who had eight tackles in the Lions' nailbiting 23-20 victory over Wisconsin in the Big Ten opener last weekend, played a critical role in Penn State's back-to-hack shutouts of Temple and Northern Illinois. 
He recorded three of his team's seven sacks in a 41-0 win over the Owls. Noble an­chored a line that limited the Huskies to 79 yards rushing in a 49-0 win over Northern Illinois. 
"Brandon's been an inspira­tion to me," said linemate Chris Snyder. "I have watched him go through the tough times. Now he's getting his chance and in my mind, he's one of the best linemen in the country." 

The shutouts were nice, but continuing to play well in con­ference action is what moti­vates Noble and his teammates. 
"It's exciting. It's four quar­ters of hard football," Noble said. "We worked hard over the summer and in winter con­ditioning to get to this point. This is our chance to go to Pasadena, so we've got to play well now." 
The Observer accepts classifteds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. 
Classifieds Deadline for next-day classifteds is 3p.m. All classifteds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
NOTICES 
!!!!!!!!!!!!!1!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!11111! Anyone interested in playing disc golf. call x0509 !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
########################### Attention all LESBIAN, GAY, BISEXUAL, and QUESTIONING students, faculty, and staff: the second general meeting for the group which seeks to address your needs is TODAY, Oct. 3 at 7:30. We'll be discussing National Coming Out day/week events and many more. Please call the Q-LINE (236-9661) for the location of the meeting. ########################### 
THAT PRETTY PLACE, Bed and 
Breakfast Inn has space available 
for football wknds. 5 Rooms with 
private baths, $70 -$90, 
Middlebury, 30 miles from campus. 
Toll Road, Exit #107, 
1-800-418-9487 
Textbooks bought/sold/traded 
5 blks south on ND Ave. 
233-2342. Pandora's Books. 
ILOST & FOUND I 
FOUND: Ladies' Watch at St. 
Ed's toga. Call Jeff at 0841. 
Lost: Silver ring w/ bright green 
stone. Great sentimental value. 
Please call 4-3425 if found. 
Lost Golden Medallion of Jesus and His Sacred Heart Sentimentally Irreplaceable REWARD Call Jeremy x-1045 
Lost-pair of Nike tennis shoes 
if found call Maria-243-9282 
·····Losr····· 
I lost a Corona keychain/bottle 
opener (with three keys) on it over 
the Purdue weekend. If you found 
it, please call Paul at 634-1519. 
REWARD. 

WANTED 
For Macintosh: modem 
(1200/2400), keyboard, mouse 1­
5610 
Help! Homesick Texas looking for 
a ride to S.A. for Oct. Break. Call 
Leticia, 284-5021 
HUGE ND FAN DESPERATE FOR 5 GAs FOR RUTGERS. CALL PAT (813)360-2243. 
Hundereds of Students Are Earning Free Spring Break Trips & Money! Sell 8 Trips & Go Free! Bahamas Cruise $279, Cancun & Jamaica $399, Panama City/Daytona $119! www.springbreaktravel.com 1-800-678-6386 
'''FREE TRIPS & CASH"'' Find out how hundreds of student representatives are already earning FREE TRIPS and LOTS OF CASH with America's #1 Spring Break company! Sell only 15 trips and travel free! Cancun, Bahamas, Mazatlan, Jamaica, or Florida! CAMPUS MANAGER POSITIONS ALSO AVAILABLE. Call Now! TAKE A BREAK STUDENT TRAV­EL (800)95-BREAK! 
SPRING BREAK Cancun, Mazatlan From $399 Lowest price guaranteed! Sell 15 trips and travel free + cash! Call Sunbreaks 1-800-446-8355 

FOR RENT 

WALK TO CAMPUS 2-3-4-5 BEDROOM HOMES 232-2595 
Need a place to stay on football weekends? 
Furnished apartment for short term rent. Full kitchen, living room, two bedrooms, sleeps 4+. Call 287­4876. 
Furnished room for rent, $200/mon. Walk to ND. Call Paul at 289-4084. 
THE PRIMROSE PATH B&B, locat­ed 20 minutes north of campus, is a 1905 Victorian with 4 quiet guest rooms. Bountiful full breakfasts. "Michiana Now!" Reader's choice as one of "Michiana's Best of 1996". http://www.laketolake.com/lnns/prim rosepath/directorypage 616-695-6321 
ROOMS IN PRIVATE HOME FOR ND-SMC EVENTS. IDEAL FOR FOOTBALL WEEK­ENDS. 
VERY CLOSE TO CAMPUS. 
243-0658. 
1 & 2 BDRMS AVAIL. NOW. NEAR CAMPUS. GILLIS PROPERTIES 272-6306 

FOR SALE 

CAR FOR SALE -92 GEO Tracker 
Red with convertible top -54K A/C 
Great shape! $8,800. Call Pascal 
687-1253 (w) or 273-5848 (h) 
2 ga's for remaining games 
$80 each 219-271-2837 
after6 pm 
1988 Ford Pickup Truck F-150 
Lariat 56K mi 1-owner air cruise 
excellent condition $8,500 of 
best offer Call Barb 272-8687 
or 631-8808 

TICKETS 

NOTRE DAME GA'S WANTED ALL GAMES HOME AND AWAY 232-0058 24 HRS. BUY -SELL-TRADE 
TICKET-MART, INC. 
WANTED: NOTRE DAME GA'S 
ANY/ALL GAMES. PLEASE CALL 
232-0061. 
I NEED FOOTBALL GA'SI 
WILL BEAT ANY OFFER! 
CALL 243-1287 
I need 4 GA's for the Airforce 
Game. Please call soon. Cara 
243-1185. 
BUYING G.A.'S FOOTBALL 
312.404.4903 
I need 2 GA's for the Airforce 
Game . Please call 243-1185. 
Ashley. 
Need Washington Tix-Stud or GA. Will buy or trade. Matt 271-3683 
I need 2 Pitt tickets. Call Kyle@ 4-1957. 
Need 2 GAs for WA. or OH. game Cristina@ x2339 
Need lots of Washington tix-GA or student. Call Meghan @232-7839. 
NEED 2 GAs for Washington game! Call Megan at 243-9047 
NEED GA for Washington game. Call Suzy X4034 
need 5 WASH ga's or stud tix $$$ x2646 
Need 1 AIR FORCE tic bad please call Nate at 271-1846 
Rich Alum Needs WA GA's 
(206)621-3485 
Need 3 Rutgers GA's 
Call Erik @3807 
NEED two Washington tix, GA or 
student. Anne 289-4922 
!@#$%"%"&&')'"%"$%@$@#!'" 
NEED GA'S FOR AIR FORCE 
BRINGING CO-WORKERS FOR ND EXPERIENCE 
CALL (312) 540-2836 OR EMAIL 
john_d._potter@ notes.pw.com 
!@##$%"&(('""%"$#@$#$%'"%' 
FOR SALE 2 GA's ALL HOME 
GAMES 235-3394 
ALUM NEEDS GA's 
for WASH, AF, PITT & RUTGERS 
618-274-2990 M-F 8am-6pm 
GA's for sale: All home games 
Call x1596 with b/o. Ask for Mike. 
I need 4 Wash. Tix'' Stud. or GA 
Call Clare 243-9282 
Need 1 Wash. Student Ticket. 
Call Rich or Mike @ 1306 
Wanted: Tickets for any or all 
remaining home games. 
634-1152 

I need 2 WASHINGTON GA's $$$Please call Laura$$$ @ (219)284-4396 
I need 3 AIR FORCE GA's $$$Please call Laura$$$ @ (219)284-4396 
$$$$$ 

NEED 4 AF+4 PITT GA 288-9102 
$$$$$ 

I NEED WASH. ST. TICKETS 
CALL 243-9357 
Dave Mathews/Black Crowes 1st 1 0 Rows 232-0058 
Need 2 WASH. tickets 
Call Greg at 2318 
FOR SALE: 1 Wash. GA. b/o 
X0931. 

Will trade 1 Air Force stud. tix 
for 1 stud. tix for any other game. 
call Emily x2900. 
1 WAS GA 4 SALE 'CHEAP' 
CALL WANG@ 4-3295 
LEAVE YOUR NAME, 
PHONE AND OFFER AirForce stud. ticket for sale call Joanie x4128 
Need Pittsburgh OR Rutgers call Joanie x4128 
Need GAs for Airforce and Rutgers X0501 ask for Sean 
Now very DESPERATE for tix to Wash. GA or stud tix that were con­verted to GAs. Offering handsome reward. Call Ryan @ x3592. 
Need 2 Wash GAs and 2 Air Force GAs Call Chad 271-8019 
Washington Student tix for sale call 234-0913 
NEED 2 WASH. TICKETS 
634-2658 
SELL GA Wsh tix 2775931 
NEED 3 AF GA's 
Anne 283-0165 
NEED 4 TIX 
FOR AIR FORCE 
FOR MY FAMILY 
CHRIS @0788 
I NEED 4 AIR FORCE GA'S 
CALL STEVE AT '0867 
WANTED: 2 WASH GAs or STUD. 
upgrade FOR PARENTS. WILL 
PAY OR TRADE 2 RUTG. GAs 
CALL DAVE@ 4-1913 
!@#$%"&'()('&"%$#@#!@#$%"& 
NEED THREE PITT GA'S FOR 
FAMILY. CALL COLBY @X1468. 
!@#$0fo/\&'()('&"%$#@!@#$0fo/\&' 
NEED 4 AF GA'S FOR OUR PARENTS. CALL CHRISTINE OR SONIA @ 243-9433. 
WANTED: 2 WASH. GA'S. WILL 
TRADE 2 PITT GA'S OR PAY 
CASH. CALL JILL 312-871-0970. 
NOTRE DAME GA'S WANTED 
ALL GAMES HOME 
AND AWAY 
232-0058 
24 HAS. 
BUY -SELL -TRADE 
TICKET-MART, INC. 
WANTED: NOTRE DAME GA'S 
ANY/ALL GAMES. PLEASE CALL 
232-0061. 
$$$$$$ 
I NEED GA OR FACULTY TIXS 
ALL HOME GAMES. 
272-6551 
n. d. tickets for sale 271 1635 
$NEED OSU, WASH, & AF TIX 
216-995-1902 5-7 PM EDT M-F 
216-650-5264 7-9 PM EDT M-F 
NEED 2-4 GA TIX 
ALL HOME GAMES. 
CALL 276-201 0/288-2877 AFT 5 
ND DAD NEEDS TWO (2) GAs FOR PURDUE. OHIO STATE AND WASHINGTON. CALL LARRY (219)422-6088 
TAKING THE GRE? 
I need a student ticket/booklet (or 
GA) for the WA game on 10/12. 
Friend from last yr coming in! 
Please call Jen or Sarah-243­
9019 GA Football Tix -Buy/Sell 67 4-7645 -No student or student conv. 
I have 2 Air Force & 2 Rutgers 
G.A.s -I need 4 PITT G.A.'s-Call Shawn 215-676-6685 
i need tix for washington. if u can help, please call RON at 288-9102. 
KATE NEEDS 2 WASH. TIX! CALL ANYTIME -284-5456 
Need 2 Air F. GA's Amy 616-473-5825 
NEED 2 WASH. GA's FOR PAR­
ENTS! CALLX1932 
Need 4 Air Force Tix Call Frank Walters 18002439683 Leave name and # .:._ will pay top $. 
I NEED OHIO ST, WASH. & AF 
GA's.272-6306 
NEED WASHINGTON TICKETS­HAVE AF, PITT, RUTGERS TICK­ETS TO TRADE. CALL WORK 601-893-5352 OR HOME 901-755­4273 
NEED 1 WASH TIX 
AND 2 AFTIX 
CALLX2765 
Senior needs 1 Wash. STUDENT 
ticket for sister! 
Jeff 233-2460 
NEED 2 AIR FORCE GA'S 
CALL MATT x2058 
NEED WASHINGTON TIX STUDENT or G.A.'s CALL Brent or Tony@ 3662 
Thanks to everyone who responded to my plea for tickets last week. You were friendly and interested in help­ing... I won't soon forget that. Have a good life! Your friend, Ron Mueser, Minneapolis 
Need 1 Student Ticket for Wash! 
Please call Diana @ 243-9432 
I need 4 tickets for the Air Force 
game. My family's coming and I 
promise they'll cheer. Call Martin 
x1858 
Need 2 GAs for Washington 
Call Beth @ 4-4265 
My family needs Ga's to WASH Please help. Jon -1889 
!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!11!1!11!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
!II!! 
4 Washington student tickets 
FOR SALE! 
call Jenny@ 687-8435 
!11!1!!!!!1!!11!111!!!!!!!11!11!!11!!11!11!1!!!!!!1!!!!!! 
!!!!! 


PERSONAL 
COLOR COPIES ON CAMPUS! 
COLOR COPIES ON CAMPUS! 
COLOR COPIES ON CAMPUS! 
The highest quality full-color 
copies are now available at 
THE COPY SHOP 
LaFortune Student Center 
Phone #631-COPY 
CLARINET 
CORE BAND 
IS 
THE!!! 

Want a good excuse to go to Chicago? Want to see a way cool play? Check out-CHILDREN OF STRANGELOVE-a new play at the Famous Door Theater from Oct. 5 to Nov. 2. Call Becky at X3792 for coupons and info!! 
0 DISCOVER THE COPY SHOP 0 
in the LaFortune Student Center 
Mon. 7:30am -Midnight Tues. 7:30am -Midnight Wed. 7:30am -Midnight Thur. 7:30am -Midnight 
Fri. 7:30am -7:00pm Sat. Noon -6:00pm 
Sun. Noon -Midnight '(closed home football Saturdays) 
########################### 
Attention all LESBIAN, GAY, 
BISEXUAL, and QUESTIONING students, faculty, and staff: the second general meeting tor the 
group which seeks to address 
your needs is TODAY, 
Oct. 3 at 7:30. We'll be 
discussing National Coming Out 
day/week events and many more. 
Please call the Q-LINE (236-9661) 
for the location of the meeting. . 
########################### 
SABOR LATINO 
Saturday, Oct. 5 
10:30 pm Club 23 
SABOR LATINO 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY, LIS! 
Dr. Murray, I heard that you read these things. I'm glad to hear it. From time to time, we will send you messages in hopes that you are staying tuned. The Sorin gang sends a giant "hello" your way, as does the rest of the ND/SMC family. Take it easy, DR.MURRAY. 
coolio, if you are readingthis: I heard something about changing the name to the whispering otters. DO NOT THINK THAT THIS IS A GOOD MOVE. Don't do it, pal. I think that you should forever remain the screaming otters. That is a nice name. Sarin is a nice place. And otters (screaming ones) are nice animals. Be one with pride. "Go screaming otters, go." 
Missing: A multicolored lassie thing. Found: A mutlicolored lassie thing. 93!!! Fresh face, super model. 
Someone's birthday is coming up 
very, very soon. (Stop the bus and 
get her a watch, pal.) 
You bring your hard hat. I'll bring 
my Docs. 

Gavin: "I drink, therefore I am." 
Tenille, two days to the dance. Are 
you ready? You're the wooman! 
If your serious, love can be 
dangerous... 

Oh Tenille, you are so strong. Hold 
me. I love you and I want to have 
your babies. 


Thursday, October 3, 1996 The Observer • SPORTS page 13 



Baltimore one win away from sweep 
By DAVID GINSBURG 
Associated Press Writer 
BALTIMORE 
First, the Baltimore Orioles used a display of raw power to beat the Cleveland Indians. Then they took advantage of a throwing error on a controver­sial play. 
Now the Orioles need to come up with just onn more win, rngardless of tnchnique, in ordnr to nliminatn the defend­ing AL champions. 
Cal Hipken scored the tidm~aking run on 11 disputed play in the eighth inning. and thn Oriolns defeatml Clnveland 7-4 Wedrwsday for a 2-0 lead in thnir best-of-5 playoff series. 
Baltinwrt-l moved within one win of bncoming tlw first wild­card tnam to advance while pushing tlw Indians to the brink of elimination. Came 3 will bo Friday in Cleveland. 
"Anything can happnn, but I likn our chancns at this point," Baltimore managnr Davey .Johnson said. 
"We were looking for a split hut now we're up 2-0. We're in a good situation," said Baltimore sBcond baseman Roberto Alomar, who has been surrounded by controversy since spitting in the face of umpire .John Hirschbeck last Friday. 
A few hours after the game, Alomar dropped his appeal of a five-game suspension. A hear­ing had been scheduled for Thursday. 
In this game, though, another J\lomar was the center of atten­tion in a play involving an umpire. 
Brady Anderson homered for the second straight day, helping the Orioles take a 4-0 load. Albert Belle homered as the Indians rallilld, tying it with a run in the eighth. 
Then Baltimore bounced back in the bottom or the eighth. 
Bobby Bonilla drew a leadoff walk from Eric Plunk and Cal Hipken, in his first playoff series in 13 years, hit a ground­rule double. Eddie Murray was given an intentional walk to load the bases. 
Paul Assenmacher relieved, and ILl. Surhoff hit a tapper back to the mound. Assenrnaeher threw home for a forceout, but -with Surhoff running on the wrong side of 
Use Your Brain... 
Notre Dame Debate Team 
Last chance to join for the 1996-1997 season. 

Informational Meeting Thursday, October 3 at 7 pm Dooley Room, LaFortune 
the baseline -the throw from catcher Sandy Alomar, Roberto's brother, bounced off the glove of first baseman Jeff Kent. 
"He definitely blocked my view," Sandy Alornar said. "l was trying to aim the ball but couldn't see Jeff clearly. Either (SurhofO was running close to the grass or inside the line." 
The wild throw allowed Hipken to seorc for a 5-4 lead, and brought Indians manager Mike Hargrove out of the dugout to discuss the play with plate umpire Greg Kosc. 
"Obviously Sandy did not make a good throw, but our eontention was he had to alter his throw because Surhoff was running. inside the line," Hargrove said. "In the umpire's judgment. they said that it didn't have anything to do with the way the play turned out." 
Replays cleared showed Surhoff to the left side of the baseline as he approached the bag. 
First base umpire Tim Tschida said, "The fact that the baserunner is inside the line doesn't in and of itself consti­tute interference. His being inside the line has to prevent whoever is covering the bag from catching the ball. In our judgment, it was simply an errant throw." 
Once play resumed, Anderson hit a sacrifice Oy and Roberto Alornar added an HBI single. 
The loss left the Indians in the position of trying to become only the fourth big league team to rally from an 0-2 deficit in five-game playoff series. Cleveland led the majors with 99 wins this season. 
"It's going to be difficult," Hargrove admitted. 
"It was obviously a huge win for us," Anderson said. "If we go in Cleveland 1-1, then I'd say that they have the advan­tage." 
Mike Mussina will pitch for Baltimore against Jack McDowell on Friday before another sellout c.rowd at Jacobs Field. The crowd of 48,970 at Camden Yards was the largest ever at the young ballpark. 
With the Indians down 4-0. 
Hargrove gathered around a 
dozen of his players together in 
the dugout before the sixth 
inning for what appeared to be 
a low-key pep talk. The Indians 

The University of Notre Dame Department of Music presents 
THE PERCUSSION GROUP. 

CONCERT:  MASTERCLASS:  
Sunday, October 6  Monday, October 7  
2:00p.m.  10:45 a.m.  
Annenberg Auditorium  Annenberg Auditorium  
The Snite Museum ofArt  The Snite Museum of Art  
Tickets: $5 General  No admission charge  

$2 Students & Seniors THE PERCUSSIO:'\ GROl"P i\ 1\'pl.:\1:11\\:d h} GrL'.ll Lak~:\ 1\:rfnrmin~ ,\rtisl:h\lll"I,IIL''. 
immediately responded by playing the brand of baseball that earned them two straight AL Central titles. 
Kenny Lofton singled with one out and promptly stole his first two bases of the playoff before scoring on a groundout by Kevin Seitzer. .lim Thome then singled and Belle got his first hit of the series, a home run into the left-field seats that cut the lead to 4-:~. 
In the seventh, Baltimore starter Scott Erickson issued two straight walks with two outs and was replaced by Jesse Orosco, who struck out Lofton on a 2-2 pitch. Seitzor and .lim Thorne singled to open the eighth, chasing Orosco, and Julio Franco tied tho game with a sacrifice fly off Armando Benitez. 
Benitez. who avoided further damage by striking out Manny Hamierez and getting Sandy Alomar on the popup, wound up as tho winning pitcher and Plunk was the loser. Handy Myers pitched the ninth for a save. 
"We go horne. The horne team has won all the game so far, so we've got that on our side," said Cleveland starter Orel Hershiser, who lasted only five innings. 
The Orioles took a 1-0 first­inning lead for the second straight day. After Ilershiser walked Alomar and Hafael Palmeiro, Baltimore got an unearned run when a two-out grounder by Bonilla went through the legs of Seitzer at first base. 
After Anderson homered in 
the fifth, Palmeiro got a two-out 
single, Bonilla walked and 
Ripken lined an RBI single to 
left, his first hit in 14 eareer at­
bats against Hershiser. Murray 
then doubled, seoring Bonilla 
for a 4-0 lead, but Hipken was 
thrown out at the plate. 



TASTE OF NATIONS 
Food & Entertainment 
from Around the World 

page 14 The Observer • SPORTS Thursday, October 3, 1996 
• MAJOR lEAGUE BASEBAll 


Smoltz, Braves prevail in series opener 
By JOHN NADEL 
Associated Press Writer 
LOS ANGELES 
John Smoltz dominated the Dodgers for nine innings Wednesday, which was no sur­prise considering his terrific season and Los Angeles' recent ineptitude at the plate. 
Then, his catcher finished them off in the 1Oth. 
Smoltz, the major league leader in wins and strikeouts this season, allowed only four hits and Javy Lopez homered off Antonio Osuna as the pitch­ing-rich Atlanta Braves beat the Dodgers 2-1 in 10 innings in the opener of their NL play­off series. 
"Obviously, today was a big blow to them," Smoltz said. "They're not out of it, but this hurts. This is a big win for us, guaranteed going home with one victory and with (Greg) Maddux going tomorrow." 
Maddux (15-11), the four­time Cy Young Award winner whose streak will likely be stopped by Smoltz, will pitch for the NL East champion Braves in Game 2 Thursday night. Ismael Valdes (15-7) will start next for Los Angeles in the best-of-5 series. 
"It's a must-win tomorrow for us," said Dodgers manager Bill Russell, who lost in his first postseason game as a manager. "We'd hate to go to Atlanta down 2-0." 
As expected, the matchup between the teams with the top two ERAs in baseball was a classic pitching duel. There were a total of just nine hits ­four by Atlanta. 
"Low-scoring, whoever catches the break," Braves manager Bobby Cox said. "I thought we caught it today." 
Smoltz, 24-8 this year, retired his final 13 batters. He struck out seven, walked two and threw strikes on his last 17 pitches in improving his life­time mark to 6-1 in postseason play. 
"It was a great-pitched game all day," Smoltz said. "I think that's what everybody expects all series. We play some dull games in the postseason because of our pitching." 
Mark Wohlers, who had a club-record 39 saves, worked around a one-out single by Greg Gagne in the 1Oth to pre­serve the victory for the defending World Series cham­pions. 
"How can you get more out of Smoltz that we did today? The only thing else he could have done was throw a no-hitter," Wohlers said. "He made big pitch after big pitch. He's been doing this all year, and he's been doing this in the postsea­son since he's been with us." 
Ramon Martinez matched Smoltz for eight innings, giving up just three hits. But his bullpen did not do the job as the Dodgers lost their fifth straight game, a streak that cost them the NL West title, left them as the wild card team, and puts them in great jeop­ardy now. 
Lopez, who had grounded out in his only previous at-bat against Osuna this season, fell behind 0-2. He then worked the count full and fouled off three pitches before hitting a drive far over the fence in right-cen­ter field off a 92-mph fastball. 
Lopez will be rewarded with a spot on the bench Thursday night, in favor of Eddie Perez, who frequently catches Maddux. But Lopez said he didn't mind. 
As far as his homer was con­cerned, Lopez said, "When I fell behind 0-2, the first thing that went through my mind was, 'I'm going to get jammed.' So I kept my shoulder closed. That way, if there was a pitch away, I would be able to hit it. So every pitch they threw me, I was ready to hit -or at least make contact." 
He made contact all right, and won the game. 
Osuna nodded and smiled grimly when asked if he knew the ball was gone. 
"I was trying to throw the ball inside and it tailed on me," he said. "I've pitched to him four or five times, and noth­ing." 
Martinez left after the eighth, having thrown 131 pitches. With his last pitch, he retired Mark Lemke on a grounder with a runner at third. 
Martinez, who struck out six and walked three, said he knew he had to be near-perfect for the Dodgers to win. 
"Every time you go out there, you go with the pressure that you can't give anything to the other team," he said. "That' the way I looked at it when I went out there today. Against the Cy Young Award winner, you don't expect to get too many runs." 
The Dodgers didn't. They scored their lone run in the fifth on a leadoff double by Gagne and a two-out double by slumping rookie Todd Hollandsworth, who finished the re ar season with ust two hits in his final 23 at-bats. 

Hollandsworth was 0-for-2 with a strikeout before slicing his hit just inside the third-base bag on the first pitch from Smoltz. 
The run snapped a 21-inning scoreless streak for the Dodgers, who hadn't scored since the third inning Saturday in the next-to-last game of the season -a 4-2 loss to the San Diego Padres. 
The Dodgers were beaten 2-0 in 11 innings by the Padres on Sunday with the NL West title at stake. 
Los Angeles has scored only six runs during its five-game skid, and just once in its last 27 innings. 
Atlanta took a 1-0 lead in the fourth when Marquis Grissom singled, stole second, went to third on a groundout and scored on a sacrifice fly by Fred McGriff. 
Thursday, October 3, 1996 page 15
The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT 
ADVERTISEMENT 
VOLUME 2, NUMBER 1 OCTOBER 199& 
















NOTRE DAME 


DOING IT ••• 
THE ACCIDENTAL Hi. I'm NIKE's student rep, Colleen Henshaw. It's my job to show up at cool ca1111pus events and plan some of
MARATHONER 
5 
my own. Sometimes I even give away free NIKE stuff ... I It's hard to believe there make a lot of friends with this job... SportsPage will
I 
appear once a month for the rest of the school year. The cal­

was a time when 
D endar lists this month's campus sports events all in one
Leon Stronsky 
place. Sidelines clues you In to upcoming NIKE hap­couldn't possibly E penings and other notable news. Doing It is where a remark­able local athlete receives some ink... I'm responsible for 
imagine running a marathon. L 
putting the SportsPage together. If you want to see some­In the past year, he's crossed the thing that's not here, lead me to it. I'm flexible that way. Use
I 
my e-mail address: colleen.henshaw@nike.com... If you 

finish line in not one, but two, marathons. 
want to talk to NIKE HQ directly, use: sports.page@nike.com.

N
What changed? His mental attitude. One day, it Coming soon to a stairwell near you: step Into fall. Work up a sweat on a Stainnaster,
dawned on the junior from Carroll Hall he had the E 
in a step aerobics class, or on the stairs of your donn or classroom building October 7. You right stuff to qualify for the Chicago Marathon and 5 will be blessed with better health and maybe some cool NIKE stuff ... Are you going to let 'Brare beat you? Come out for llllldterm 1111adneu October 16 on the Stepan courts 
Stronsky decided to. see it through -all 26.2 
and blow off some steam. You can't exercise your brain cells all the time; take a break from the books miles. After completing Chicago, he braved the and flex your pees by challenging your study partners for a game of basketball or volleyball. Boston Marathon and bolted through the la'it lap. 
Flag Football. Who says there's no true college football national championship? 

Simple as that. 
There may not be one in varsity football, but 19% will see the first college football nation­Stransky's new-found single-mindedness pays al championships (flag football, that is). The Nike Invitational Aag Football Champi­onships (NIFFC) will be held December 27th through the 31st and will be brought to you 
off in the other long-distance contests of his life. 
by Butterfinger and played at the Nokia Sugar Bowl. No ties. No polls. No He maintains a 3.77 GPA in accounting and com­1111addenlng subfectivlty. 
puter apps. He is also the keeper of the junior 
Regional ~will be held in October and November (see schedule below). Winners will 
class purse-he's class treasurer. His motto for receive an expe~•• paid trip to the National Championship in New Orleans, in late December, Which '
just happens to be the same week as the Nokia Sugar Bowl. For more infonnation, call Beau 
maintaining magna-cum status 
Rugg at Ohio State University, 614-292-7671. is the same one he uses for fin­
NIKI College Flag Football Regional
ishing marathons: "I pick a goal 

Cha1111plonshlps
that's difficult, but within reach," 
presented by BuHerfinger 
October 11-13 University ofWisconsin-Eau 
Claire, Eau Claire, WI University of West Fl., Pensacola, FL, University of NC, Wilmington, NC 

November 15-17 University of Nebraska, Lincoln, NE November 15-17 Kutztown University, Kutztown, Pennsylvania November 22-24 University of Maryland, College Park, MD, University of San Diego, San Diego, CA, University of Texas, Arlington, TX November 29-30 Ohio State University, Columbus, OH 
BLUE LEAGUI:" 
3 

AT SrF.PAN F/F.W SOUTH. /,2,3 PM 
WOMIN'I VOLUY• MIN'I IOCCII/V
FoonALL/1
GOW LEAGUE AT SYRACUSEBLUE LEAGUE IALL/VAT ST/:WtN F/f11J NoRTH. 1.2.3 PM 7 PMAT STEPAN FlEW WEST VS. GEORGtTOWN

WOMIN'S FOORALL/1 
7,H,Y PM AT JACC, 7PM WOMIN'I IOCCII/Y Gow LEAGV£ 
AT DUKE
CIOII COUNYIY/V

AT STEPAN flEW WEST. /.2,3 PM 
7 PMNOTRE DAME INVITATIONALBI.UE Lt'AGUE TBAAT Sff:PAN FlEW WEST. 4,5,6 PM 

9 0 12 WOMIN'I VOWY• MIN'I SOCCII/V FOOnALL/VIWDMU''IYOLLIYIALI/V WOMIN'I IPOOYIALL/1 
VS. WESTERN ILI./NO/S VS. WASHINGTON
IALL/V

V.I. VII.IANIIVA AT JACC, 7 I'M BI.Vt' LEAGV£ AT ALUMNI FlEW. 7:JO PM AT SWJIUM. I:JO PM
AT ILI.INOIS STATE

MIN'S FOOTIALL/1 AT SIUAN Fm.IJ WEST. 
WOMIN'I VOLLIY• (TV: NBC. /:JO PM) 7 PMBWE L£AGUE 1.2.3 PM 

WOMIN'I FOOnALL/1 IALL/V
STI.I'IIN FlEW NORTH, /,2,3 PM GIIW Lf:AGU£ 
GIIW LEAGUE AT STfPAN FloW WEST, 
GOW LEAGUE VS. PROVIDENCE AT STEI\\N FlEW SoUTH. 4,5,6 PM 
AT STEPAN FlEW WEST. AT JACC, 7 PM 1.2.JPM 
4,5,6 PM 
MIDYIIM MADNIII MIN'I FOOnALL/1 MIN'I IOCCII/V FOOnALL/V

MIN'S SOCCII/Y WOMIN'I IOWINO/C 
AT STEPAN COURTS, II PM AT STEPAN FIELD WEST. AT RUTGERS VS. MR FORCE~ PrmRURGH (AT ALUMNI Ftm~ HEA/1 OF THE' ROCK Rt:GATI~ 7.R PM 7:JO PM AT STADIUM, I :JO PM

MIN'I FOORALL/1

/PM AT ROCKFORIJ, IL 
(TV: NBC. I:JO PM)
GOW LEAGUE

lw....o'"''•YOWYIALL/V CIOII COUNTIY/Y 
AT STEPAN FII::J.f) WEST, CIOII CouNnY/V

VS. Bll.ffi/N CO/JJ.'GE AT JACC. AT 0-:NTRIU. COWJJ£m: CONFfR· 
7,R PM AT TUSCON INVrrATIONM.

ZPM f1o/Ci.'(KA1AMAl.OO, M() AT TUSCON, AZ
WOMIN'I locCII/Y 
............
AT SANTA ClARA 2 PM 

20 
24 25 26 WOMIN'I YOWY• MIN'I locCII/V WOMIN'I locCII/V
MIN'I SOCCII/Y WOMIN'I IOWINO/C 
AT GE.ORGI:.TOWN VS. WEST VIRGINIA
IALL/Y

AT V/1./ANOVA HfA/J OF THE 
J:JOPM AT ALUMNI FlEW,

AT CAL STATE· NORTHRIIJGE 7 PM I:IHI PM CHAR/.1:.1 RE:GATTA 
7:30PM

AT BOSTON. MA VS. RUTGERS AT AI.UMNI FlEW. I PM 
WOMIN'I locCII/Y 

In creating this Spons Pagt, NIKE loa.< madt evuy
MIN'I IOCCII 
effort to accurately present the time and location for

WOMIN'I IOCCII/V 
VS. WISCONSINVS. SbTON HALL 

AT ALUMNI FIELD, 7:10PM upcoming athletic events on campus. We regret any 

AT AI.UMNI HAU. I PM 
schedule change.! or mistakes. If your club or intra·

WOMIN'I IOWJNO/C 
mural .!port wa.m 't covered. lei your NIKE .1/udtnl 

Rf:GAITA 
AT COLUMBUS, OH 
rep know and we "II try again nat month. 


V•V•rolty I C=CI•Io I l•l•t••••••l 

I • MAJOR lEAGUE BASEBALL
I 
page 16 The Observer • SPORTS Thursday, October 3, 1996 






Palmer error ties series 
By TOM WITHERS there, including five of six this regular-season games following Associated Press Writer season. Yankees losses, gave up only 
NEW YORK 
Dean Palmer, who left the bases loaded in the top of the 12th, threw wildly past first base in the bottom of the inning Wednesday night, giving the New York Yankees a 5-4 win over the Texas Rangers to even their AL playoff series at 1-all. 
Derek Jeter opened the 12th with a single off loser Mike Stanton, who then walked Tim Raines on a full count. Mike Henneman relieved, and Charlie Hayes bunted the first pitch toward Palmer at third base. 
Palmer fielded the ball clean­ly, but skipped his throw to first past second baseman Mark McLemore, covering on the play. Jeter paused briefly at third before sprinting home when he saw the ball bounce away. 
"It was one of those games where the first team to make a mistake was going to lose," Jeter said. 
Juan Gonzalez, who hit a three-run homer in the playoff opener, hit another three-run homer and a solo shot, giving Texas an early 4-1 lead. Cecil Fielder helped rally the Yankees with a home run and a tying single in the eighth. 
The best-of-5 series shifts to Texas. Jimmy Key will start Game 3 for the Yankees against Darren Oliver on Friday night. 
"If we had lost, we'd have had to go to Texas and win three in a row, and that's too tough," Jeter said. "It's still going to be a struggle, but we like our chances." 
The odds are in the Rangers' favor with the remainder of the series to be played at The Ballpark in Arlington. Texas has owned New York at home, winning 13 of the last 16 games 
The win snapped a four-game postseason losing streak for the Yankees, whose last playoff vic­tory was a thrilling, 7-5 win in 15 innings over Seattle last October. 
Texas led the majors in field­ing this season. In the playoff opener Tuesday night, Palmer made a diving, backhanded stop that helped prevent New York from breaking loose in the first inning. Palmer had his chance to put the Rangers ahead in the 12th. 
Kenny Rogers, scheduled to start Game 4 for the Yankees, made his frrst relief appearance in three years and walked Will Clark, loading the bases with two outs. After Brian Boehringer relieved, Palmer flied out to right. Boehringer wound up the winning pitcher. 
Trailing 4-3, the Yankees tied it in the eighth off Jeff Russell. 
Bernie Williams singled and hustled into second when Tino Martinez flied out to deep left. 
Fielder, whose homer had brought the Yankees within 4-2 in the fourth, lined a single to right and, as Williams slid home with the tying run, many of the Yankees bolted from their dugout to greet him. 
Texas starter Ken Hill allowed five hits in six-plus innings before giving way to Dennis Cook with two runners on in the seventh. Cook gave up a sacrifice fly to Hayes, pinch­hitting for Wade Boggs, that made it 4-3. 
For the second straight night, it was Gonzalez who led the Rangers. He hit a solo homer in the second off Andy Pettitte and added a three-run shot in the third to put Texas ahead 4-1. 
Gonzalez, who hit 47 homers 
during the regular season, has 
seven RBis in the series. 
Pettitte, who won 13 of his 21 

Appearing LIVE at the 
JML&ID)TI;&(Q)N (Q)'Xi&"ILIEIR{ IffiAIR{ 
402 EAST MADISON SOUTH BEND, IN (219) 288-3776 
Thurs., October 3, Ashwa Greggori Fri., October 4, Darryl Buchanan Sat., OctoberS, Stomper Bob 
hours: Mon-Sat 3:00p.m.-3:00a.m. 
NATIONAL &REGIONAL ACTS HALF PRICE COVER WITH STUDENT ID 
SERVING EXCELLENT FOOD till 1 a.m. Thurs., Fri., Sat. 
WEDNESDAYS: open mic jam THURSDAYS: reggae FRIDAYS: blues SATURDAYS: classic rock-alternative-retro 
national and regional acts 
four hits in 6 1-3 innings but was stung by six walks. 
Mariano Rivera pitched 2 2-3 innings of hitless relief for New York, combining with Pettitte to retire 13 straight from the fifth through the ninth innings. 
Pettitte, the likely AL Cy Young winner, was tagged for 10 runs and 10 hits in 2 2-3 innings in his last start against Texas, on July 30. He fared much better this time. 
Invite 
continued from page 20 
Dunlop and Maxwell have all finished in the top ten at the past two meets. 
The Irish will need similar contributions if they hope to maintain their recent momen­tum. Coach Joe Piane sees tougher competition visiting this weekend. The No. 13 Michigan Wolverines will be the highest ranked team, aside from Notre Dame, at the meet. Piane also praised West Virginia and Duke as schools that will contend at the meet. A surprise could come from the Division III school, North Central, which is known for its strength in cross-country. 
"I think we'll do well," said Piane. "It will be a real battle between Michigan and us. It should be real interesting." 
The Irish will field three teams on Friday. One team will compete in the first race against a group of Division III schools. The Irish will also run a junior varsity men and women's team together and the men will run in the last race of the evening. 
this game," added Baker. NrNJct~Ai'Vt-~1' Amy Bosanac and said the tie boosted 
19·P loss to Lyons. 
tmSund~yat .... ·.,~x.plays lladiri . 
than a minute win for Howard night. 
led to our two captain Nicole second halL for the second Senior Meghan h ...m ....-h+ in two touch­
1-2, BP chal­On Sunday at lp.m.• 
In-Line Skating Clinic · -· 

.... 

Monday, October 7 5:15-6:30 PM Parking Lot South of the joyce Center Equipment Provided 
Advance Registration at RecSports Required $6.00Fee All Levels Welcome 
631-6100 
Buddies Benefit for the Homeless 
and 20 year reunion of Vegetable Buddies 
general public invited/all ages show All proceeds from the show to benefit the Center for the Homeless 
Featuring: 





The Fabulous Thunderbirds 
Hit songs include: Powerful Stuff, Tuff Enuff, Wrap it Up 
With very special Guests: 

Howard Scott, Harold Brown, BB Dickerson 
from the 70's Supergroup who wrote andperformed their hits: Cisco Kid, Low Rider, Slipping into Darkness, The World is a Ghetto 
and the red hot rhythm & blues of 
The Whistle Pigs 

Saturday night, Oct. 5th, 1996 The State Theater-South Bend, IN 
Tickets go on sale Sept 5th: 

Available at:  Heartland Nightclub (or charge by phone): State Theater (or charge by phone): Tracks Records Method Music (Elkhart-Concord Mall)  219-234-5200 219-232-0679 219-277-8338 219-875-8880  
Advance TicketDay of show:  s: $1 7 $20  

VIP tickets: $40 (a limited number of preferred seats will be made available. Price includes pre-show reception at the Heartland VIP room [next door] with hors d'oeuvres, and greet the bands after the show in the VIP room). 
Sponsors: Northwest Airlines, WRBR, Avery Dennison, Heartland, Howard Johnson's and The State Theater 
Thursday, October 3, 1996 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 17 
-
.. 


The Observer/Mike Ruma 

Sobrero defends Portland star Shannon MacMillan (left) last year in the NCAA Final. 
,>-

Sobrero 
continued from page 20 
recognition as one of the top collegiate defenders in the nation. The native of Bloomfield Hills, MI graced the cover of Soccer America after holding MacMillan scoreless in the final. 
To put that effort in perspec­tive, MacMillan scored a goal in both the Olympic semifinal and final. leading the women's team to their first gold medal. MacMillan's talent only pre­sented Sobrero with a more inviting challenge. 
"I have the mentality of a de­fender," Sobrero added. "It's about being really aggressive. I'm one to just block shots or slide tackle someone. That's my favorite part of the game." 
Her fierce tenacity, combined with the stellar play of senior Kate Fisher and freshman sweeper Jen Grubb form a de­fensive unit responsible for seven shutouts this season. After blanking each of their NCAA Tournament opponents last year, Sobrero realizes the importance of that statistic. 
"Our defense is probably the best its ever been," she noted. "Grubb and Fisher 'are playing really, really well. And so is Shannon (Boxx) when she comes back there. Its not only us either. The whole team de­fends more than in the past." 
Sobrero has played in every game since arriving at Notre Dame as a freshman. Gradually, Sobrero turned her raw talent into being one of the most formidable defenders in the nation. 
"She was a great athlete who came in with not a lot of skill," Petrucelli remembered. "Now, she's a better soccer player be­cause of the knowledge she has gained. She also has become more skillful and really knows how to defend." 
Besides increasing her skill level, Petrucelli has witnessed another important transition. 
"Her personality on the team has changed a lot," he said. "She may not have been very confident and didn't know where she fit in at first." 
"I think that's definitely true," Sobrero said. "I defi­nitely have more confidence than I ever have. Not to the point where I am arrogant, but I just am more confident in myself." 
Sobrero attributes her own growth to the coaching staff and her teammates. With their support, Sobrero's maturity has become evident on the soc­cer field. 
As MacMillan learned, Sobrero's game is now multi­dimensional. In the 1994 na· tiona! semifinal against Portland, Sobrero scored the game winner off a corner kick. Couple scoring with a desire to push the ball over midfield and it becomes apparent why Sobrero has captured national attention. 
"I never use to like going for­ward," Sobrero said. "Now, af­ter seeing what can open up from going forward, I like it more. Through repetition, I got more comfortable at it and so I can help affect what goes up there." 
Earlier in the season, what went on back there involved implementing a zone defense. Because of a difficult adjust­ment to the new style, the Irish reverted back to a man-to-man scheme which entailed success last year. 
"There was way too much to it (the zone) and it was a lot harder than what we made it," Sobrero said. "We just made it so difficult for ourselves that it got to the point where it was frustrating. We were losing sight of the players we were suppose to defend." 
In soccer, that's not supposed to happen and the situation has now been rectified. As Sobrero realizes, a stable defense wins championships. 
She also understands anoth­er factor in that championship equation. 
"We have to keep our mentality of wanting to be the best team out there and always wanting to improve," she added. "Its really easy to be­come stagnant with where you're at. If we don't work on that, we're never going to play up to our potential." 
There's nobody who knows more about reaching potential than Sobrero. 
"Her personality is really starting to develop right now," Petrucelli said, "and she is putting her stamp on this team." 
It seems only fitting Sobrero leave her mark on the Irish by never leaving it on the field. 
well, the student union board was supposed to show 

strip tease,,,,"'''''"''
/ 
•. 
hut due to Jllfflt Jf flrohlcnn. 1 • . 1111 1111111
we re sorry to 11~1onn you t zat ·' 
'' ' ".,. 

De1ni naked (matte you look) but instead we qffer you Jhn Carrey's 
luscl.ousbody asvouwatchhis .,,, ,. b'
• 1111 G )' GISfll r zng psychotic, abnonna/ behavior in 






"Cable Guy' 
Once w..:uin. ,,.C' llf}(J/ogi:::efill·uny incom·enience. fJsyclw!ogico! or .1pirituo! \\'£' 1110,1' or 11/ll\' not hu1·e cou.1ed. 8 o n (/ 11 fJ e t i t e .' 
showing thursday 0 10:30. Fri. & Sat. 0' 8 & 10:30. Cushing Auditorium only $2 
Insight 
continued from page 20 
"We could have gone to Carolina and sat on the bench freshman year and would have been given a ring, but what does that mean," Daws added. 
Obviously, not_a whole lot. As talented recruits resisted the lure of Carolina blue on the soccer field, coach Chris Petrucelli finally got the play­ers necessary to slay Goliath. 
And last year in the national semifinal, after three previous losses, it finally happened. Notre Dame used a 1-0 upset of North Carolina as a spring­board to their first NCAA title. 
With that game, the battle lines were drawn. If playing the Irish meant nothing to the Tar Heels before, it sure does now. Last spring. Carolina head coach Anson Dorrance geared spring practice towards demolishing the Irish in a meaningless preseason affair. 
"That was their revenge," Petrucelli said. "They got it. Now it's over." 
That game may be over, but the rivalry is now more intense than ever. Put these two teams on South Quad, drop a ball between them, and stand back. Since no one has decid­ed to televise Friday's game, 

Thursday, October 3, 1996 
that might be the only way for the campus to appreciate the evolution of this rivalry. 
Counting tomorrow's con­test, there will already have been four Games-of-the­Millennium. Everyone knows the regular season doesn't mean as much, but put No. 1 vs. No. 2 in the same game and it deserves attention. These adversaries have ran into each other the past two post-seasons and nothing indi­cates that pattern will differ in the upcoming NCAA Tournament. 
Last season, the Irish used a 2-0 defeat in Houston as a measuring stick of what need­ed to improve before defeating Carolina in the Final Four. The game tomorrow will serve much the same purpose with one distinct feature. 
Neither team wants to lose. 
That's not to say each squad is excited about a notch in the loss column after any game, but this is a rivalry and rival­ries are funny like that. 
A defeat means more than it should and you can't wait for the next time to exact revenge. 
"You want it to be just like another game," Petrucelli said. "But you realize we're going to have an extra hop in our step at practice this week." 
And nobody gets the Irish hopping like North Carolina. 
Watch for coverage of Irish-Tar Heel game in Friday's Observer 
ReeSports 


Hotli.ne 
631·8BEC 
fat!lily Jmre. •l'~utiug [mrs •G;o:p Df!~~s 

CINEMA AT THE SNITE 
presented by Notre Dame Communications and Theatre 
631-7361 


http://www. nd .edu/-cothweb/wwwsnite. html 


IIAI'I'Y BIRTIIllA Y! IN TilE NEXT YEAR OF YOUR LIFE: 

Unc~pcctcd dc:veloprncrlls could lead Ill a wlwlc new way ul doin)! husin~ss. Travel for hoth '""inc" and pleasure. Romance: will take on dccpc·r si)!nrrrcancc as I\197 hegins. Keep a dose eye on recent invcst­menh. If ynu find that you arc on
spottrainlng... ~ 
the wrung tr;u:k. you should change course as snon as possihle. An amating job opportunity could tempt you to move to another city or state. Check the references of any­



-::;: :.:;;,~~~--:zc 
one who will be working in your 

C1996 Tribune Medta Services, Inc. • -~ 
home. 

Thursday, October 3, I996 The Observer • TODAY page 19 
MIXED MEDIA JACK OHMAN YOUR HOROSCOPE JEANE DIXON 
~ All Rtghla Reserved. 
MOTHER GOOSE & GRIMM 

DILBERT 
I NEED TO DOCU~ENT '<OUR JOB PROCESSES TO 51\TISF'I' OUR ISO qooo REQUlRE./"\E.NTS. 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 1o Ancient Rome's ----Way 
11 "Samson et 
Puzzle by Rich Norris 

Dalila" composer 31 Weaken, 
12 With 17-Across, romantically Shakespeare 32 Tendon tragedy 33 Famous loser 
13 Underhanded 37 Recuperative spot
21 Part of MTV 38 Damage, so to
22 Star speak25 Bandy about 40 Took off 
2& At full speed 
41 Final 27 Famous 
43 Nonstudent 28 Resided living in a 29 "--So Fine" college 
(1963 hit) community: 30 Has liabilities Var. 
10/3 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: all-star outlielder Dave
MIKE PETERS 
Winlield. rock 'n roll legend C'huh­
by Checker, author Gore Vidal, for­
mer astronaut Kathy Sullivan. 
ARIES !March 21-April 19): Fostering a cooperative work atmos­phere will encourage your associates to discuss key i!>sues openly. Some­one's explanation may he only half­true: lind out more. 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Keep tabs on your competitors. You do not want them passing off your ideas as their own. Let teen-agers know that freedom hrings certain responsibilitie> with it. 
GEMINI !May 21-June 20): It you have a grievance at work. speak up. Your timing is ~uperb 1 A diet and titness program will only work if you stick with it. Eat at home if you 
PROCESS 
1ul\1;11\lll' ll'lat 1011\lllp can he ,,d \a~l'd 11" ~\lU pour on the ch,11111 Apn/og11c rl ~·ou \aid \OIIIl'lll/11.':.' unl-rnd "' t>Utollrnc. 
\'II{(;() !Aug. 2l-Scp1. 22! lnht yt>ur rnstrncts. Shun prc-rn thc-,~y 'dtl'lllcs. A delay rould he ,, hlc~-..111~ 111 J'"~ui\C. Ust• the 1...''"'' ,, 
time to thrn~ things over Avord 
an.:c:plllll! il llna offer. 
LIBRA tScpt. 23-0ct. 22!: St11p h\!in1.! so naiv~. Other!-. arc u~in~ mu,-1; more sophisticated stratcgrc~ anrJ technryucs. Socialrting and good lud go hand-in-hand now Follow your intuition at t.:ritrcal 
11\0nlCillS. 
SCORI'IO (Oct. 21-Nov. 21 J Tac~lc a complex project one step at a tune. Doing your homework '"" help you kel confident. Banl\h a feeling of ri,·alry and cooperate \\ rth your ~:o-worker~ or relative~. 
SAGITTARilJS (Nov. 22-lkc 21 ): Show higher-ups your seriom side Your eflictency rises when you level with your associates. Stick to a business or personal budget. Time limits will work in your favor. 
C\I'RICORN (Dec. 22-Jan 14!: Feel free to communicate yo111 hopeo, and dream,_ New busine" ventures "'rll take more time than cxpc·ctcrJ but ab,o bring larger prof. its. Keep a romance under wraps. 
AQliARIUS <Jan. 20-Feb. 1!!): 
Don· 1 let someone' s accusations 
hoth~r you. Loans arc forthcoming 
for career or educational pursuits. 
Make sure your expectations arc 
reall'.. til..: 1f vou wanl a romantic 
alliance to la~t. 
PISCES (Feb. 1\1-March 201: 
Fini'h a proJect early and you will 
'"'·c moncv. Till' solution to a famr­
ly financial problem could be right 
umkr your nose. Consolidate your 
brlh 


"'0 I TRY TO ANTl.Cli'ATE 
_, 
" 0 THE. SHIFTING POLITICA.L 
.. 
<I!> 
WIND5. THEN I WRA.I'
"' 
.."' I"\Y5ELF IN iHE RELEVANT
0.. 
.... 
.... BUZZWORDS AND TRY TO 
0 
ACHIEVE If'o\PORTA.NCE
" 
"' 
WITHOUT ADDING VALUE.. 
~ 
w 
find restaurant meals too tempting.
SCOTT ADAMS 

CANCER (June 21-July 22) iJ 
The way your associates handle
,. 
details gives you valuable insights into their personalities. Be careful 
z 

~ u WI-\1\T'S 
about committing your resources.

. DIRECTOR OF 
Tearu elTon" ill booq profits . 
. YOUR 
u 

LEO <Jul~ 23-Aug. 22): Call a :;. J05
:;; ISO qooo 
truce with a family member before a
QUI\LITY 
quarrd escalates. A business or
"'

. TITLt.?
j 
., 
DESIGN. 


• OF INTEREST Holy Cross Associates will hold an informational meeting at 4 p.m. at the CSC. Applications for the domestic and Chile programs will be available. For more information call the HCA office at 1-8016. "The Enigma of the Pantheon" is the title 1lf a lecture to be given by Mark Wilson Jones at 4 p.m. Friday, Oct. 5 in the Annenberg Auditorium. This is 
the second of the fall lecture series sponsored by the School ofArchitecture. 
"Political Implications of Recent Soclo·Religlous Changes in Brazil" will be discussed by Paulo Siepierski today at 4:15 p.m. in C-103 Hesburgh Center f'or International Studies. 


CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 1 Fisherman's hook 5 Sting 10 Invites 14 Snack item since 1912 15 Transport for the brave? 1& Big dipper 11 See 12-Down 18 Incriminate 19 Coniferous 20 Mediocre, to a cabby? 23 Animation unit 24 Dine 25 Like a good-looking cabby? 32 Culled 
34 Trounced, with 
"down" 35Wonder 3&Kiln 
37 Fills 38 Orange waste 39Monopoly 
properties: 
Abbr. 40Pitch 41 "The Great 
Forest" painter 42 The inevitable, to a cabby? 45 Preacher of baseball 46 Alternative to a Compaq 47 Question to a smitten cabby? 55 Goat-man, in myth 56 Bright lights 
57 Carroll's "slithy" thing sa Word with drawing or drive 59 The Sleeping 
Prophet eoJej,\Jne &1 Word often after 
"Ye" &2 Bitter-­&3 Olympics award 
DOWN 
1 The Masters game 2 Field 3 Heartquake 
4Rain, e.g. 5 Torah &"Yes,--!" 
7 Detractor 8 Cross 9Lean 
•MENU Notre Dame 
NORTH Southern Fried Chicken Baked Cod with Herbs Cream of Mushroom Soup Baja Pizza Night 
Saint Mary's 
Shrimp Egg Hulls Green Pepper Steak Grilled Eggplant 
SOUTH Stir-Fry Be(lf Chicken Cacciatore Fettuccine Alfredo 
Amish Vegetable Soup 


44 Tickles 51 Not enough, to 47Call Susann 48 Early 52 Manolete Andean opponent 
Wanted: Reporters, 

49 Arrangement 53 Harmful 50 It may walk the 54 Funny Foxx dog 55 "Alice" spinoff 

photographers and 

Answers to any three clues in this.puzzle 

editors. 

are available by touch-tone phone: 
1-900-420-5656 (75¢ per minute). Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 

Join The Observer staff. 

50 years: (BOO) 762-1665. 
-


Thu October 3, 1996
page 20 
• WOMEN's SOCCER On her mark With a new confidence, defender Kate Sobrero steps into the national spotlight By JOE VILLINSKI Sports Editor Last year in the NCAA finals junior defender Kate Sobrero was given the assignment of marking Portland forward Shannon MacMillan. considered by many to be among the best in the country. There game left only left MacMillan asking one question. Who was marking who? Besides containing a U.S. National Team member, Sobrero also helped the Irish win their first national championship by sparking the Notre Dame attack out of the backfield. Sobrero's confident and quick play forced some­what of a role reversal. "1 think that was the biggest problem Shannon MacMillan had last year," women's soccer head coach Chris Petrucelli said. "She (Sobrero) has to mark players, but players end up having trouble marking her." Nonetheless, Sobrero admits she's not quite ready to become an intricate part of the Irish offense. ''I'm probably not one of the most skillful players," Sobrero said. ''I'm not one to take on 10 players and try to beat them." Notre Dame's game plan dictates that the defenders begin the attack and each has performed admirably in that respect. Sobrero, however knows what she does best. "I like being a defender," she said. "That's what I consider Scoring is always fun, but for the most part I like defend­ing." With her performance in the 1995 Final Four, Sobrero earned see SOBRERO I pagel8  The Observer/Mike Ruma Junior Kate Sobrero and the Irish defense are already responsible for seven shutouts in their first ten games this season.  • IRISH INSIGHT A rivalry second to none Back in the fall of 1994, the Notre Dame women's soccer team began something special. Funny thing is, it entailed ending some­thing else. That something was North Carolina's 92­game winning streak which ended courtesy of a scoreless tie as the Irish commenced their ascent to the ranks of the college elite. Almost two years to Joe Villinski the date of that historic Associate Sports game, Notre Dame and Editor North Carolina resume their fierce rivalry tomorrow in Durham, N.C. "There is always a rivalry towards Carolina, but Carolina never really had a rivalry back towards anyone," defender Kate Sobrero said. "After that (tie) though, it was a mutual rivalry." It is a rivalry already rich in tradition, despite its short three year life span. Carolina holds the edge in the series with a 3-1-1 record and can boast wins each year the two teams have played. That doesn't mean the series has been any less excit­ing for the Irish. No rivalry existed before Cindy Daws, Jen Renola and Co. decided it might not be a bad idea to start their own legacy in South Bend. Senior teammates Daws and Stacia Masters understand what it would have meant to join the Tar Heel machine that accounted for 12 of the first 13 NCAA National Championships. "We came here to keep Carolina from getting another national championship and win our own," Masters said. see INSIGHT I page 18  

• SMC SOCCER 

Belles upbeat despite loss 
By KATHRYN COUSINO Tuesday's away game against Sports Writer Kalamazoo College. The 7-0 loss set the Belles back to an 
Even in the chill of overall record 2-8-1. Wednesday night's practice, Boosting its record to 6-1-1, the Saint Mary's soccer team the outstanding Kalamazoo still felt some of the burn from team gave the Belles' defense 

. . • The Observer/Rachael Sederberg 
SMC will try to 1mprove the1r record against Manchester tonight. 

at North Carolina Friday, 5 p.m. 
at Syracuse Saturday, 7 p.m. 
vs. Georgetown Friday, 7 p.m. 
trouble and outplayed them offensively. 
"The opposing team had good speed," Belles coach Bob Sharp cited. "It presented a problem for the team. Our skill level matched theirs, but they basi­cally out-ran us." 
Midfielder and forward Jolie Pokorny agreed. 
"We were not outplayed," she said. "We just didn't play up to our capabilities." 
Even with the hefty loss, one could still hear the high spirits of the Belles Wednesday at practice. Their focus was still intact. 
"Before practice the ladies had a team meeting," Sharp said. "They agreed they didn't play as well as they are able to. But they are looking toward their next contest with determination." 
Pokorny added that they set goals of "being aggressive and working more as a team" at the meeting. 
Tonight the Belles will face off against Manchester behind Angela field. 
"I believe that the team will iron out their weak spots tonight," Sharp described. "They will continue their com­petitive and spirited attitude to bring home a win for the Belles. This team is very com­petitive and their winning atti­tude is still there." 


~·~l;;,t;~,~~~~~[ili!i,...... ~.•.l*·····h prepare to st Notre Dame 
Invitational 
·=·=:.:-····. 

After a we~koff. the men's cross-country team is looking to .. its dominance of late, as it hosts the Notre Dame JnVit~ltio,na.l this weekend. The team will be facing tougher It has recently, but all indications point to the Irish 
•. ,....,.•.•.•• v . .,.,... team at the Invitational. · been nearly unstoppable in their frrst three tesponsible for the first eight fmishers at .. .<!>nd six out of the first ten in the . In each meet, the Irish came away with 
.... '"'"''"' in convincing fashion. Notre Dame scored n),in,in11urti 15 points at Ohio State and nearly equaled with 18 at the Catholic. The Irish "B"-team place at the Valparaiso Invitational. That sdliadt··'Wascoimnn!':f\rl. of mostly underclassmen who filled in that had participated at Ohio State the day 
. . has been a solid performer for the Irish cor1tirme that this weekend. Rexing grabbed althe C&tboli~Jnvitational and fmished in a virtu­.sqp.homore Ryan Maxwell in the Buckeye viul,uuJitru. Semor Matt Althoff. who will be competing in his {)arne lnvitatlonal. also has two consecutive top 
· ... Althoff have. been aided by their teammates performances, and together have led the Irish to performancM in recent weeks. Derek Seiling, Joe 
page 16 
vs. Washington October 12, 1:30 p.m. 
• Women's lnterhall coverage 
Notre Dame Invitational see page 16 Friday 
• Orioles take 2-0 lead over Indians Volleyball vs. Concordia 
see page 13 Tonight, 7 p.m. 







