---------~-----~.----~-------­

Tuesday, February 20, 1996• Vol. XXVII No. 93 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
• CAMPUS LIFE COUNCil 
Co-ed living resolutions sent to O'Hara 
damage to a successful single-sex dorm environment. This sentiment was identi­
APossible Model of Coresidentiality? Advisory report seeks 
fied and discussed in a variety of ways: 
··. '· 

This is a list of issues the Campus life Council hopes to address in its 
exploration of coresidentiality. 
Values and Concerns ['Options 
• 
To develop a common life • The complex must not only house the students, but also include acommunal eating area, recreation area, study area and laundry 

• 
To face concern of size • A capacity of approximately 100 students 

• 
To address pastoral concerns • An option available only to seniors 

• 
To keep the "NO" way • Include aspects common to dorms • praying and athletics 


• To model collaboration of men • Staffed by both men and women and women (perhaps even amarried couple) 
• To offer privacy • Suite setup with two bedrooms and a bathroom 
• To encourage mixing and • Coed by room interaction 
-!able written by Sr. M.J. Gnffin of CLC subcommittee for coresidentiality. 
L-------~----------------------------~-------------------~ 
• Loss of unique hall spirit. 
options for possible 
• Loss of the virtues of the present resi­housing experiment dential system. 
• Disruption of the community current­
ly established. By BILL CONNOLLY 
• Loss of what the council identifind as News Writer 
an unknown 'mystery ingredient' in the current system.The Campus Life Council passed two • Fear of change of the current systemresolutions yesterday which will both be 
may hamper the development of individ­given to the Vice President of Student uals and the community." Affairs Patricia O'Hara, to consider and 
Providing for all these contentions, the possibly implement. CLC report includes values and concerns 
The first resolution passed was the matched with possible options. CLC's Compilation of Observations and The report concludes: "Be it resolved Proposal of Coresidential Model. The that the Campus Life Council recom­
report was formulated by the CLC mends that the Vice President for Subcommittee on Coresidentiality after 
Student Affairs considers and accepts the the entire CLC had discussed the values 
values and concerns articulated in the and concerns of the issue in detail. Council's report on coresidentiality."The CLC report stresses that, "the 
"Be it resolved that the Campus Life improvement and development of gender Council recommends that the Vice relationships at Notre Dame is a critical President for Student Affairs develops concern and need within the community. and implements a senior coresidential 
Through the CLC discussion the most housing option at Notre Dame. The cre­overwhelming value for the considera­ation of such an option should be guidedtion of coresidentiality as stated by each by the CLC's expressed opinion on coresi­
group is the opportunity to strengthen, 
dentiality and the proposed model ­develop and model enhanced male I which is the Council's vision of what this female interaction." senior coresidential housing option might 
However, the CLC report also stated look like." various reservations to coresidentiality. "These t:uncerns included the possible see CLC I page 6 

Survey: ND frosh Seniors push for name recognition 
By GWENDOLYN NORGLE opinions now. Commencement Committee which 
Assistant News Editor "If you're not African American, was formed by way of a resolution llispanic American, in HOTC, or par­passed unanimously by the Student Less than 40 percent of the class of ticipating in a service project next Senate on Sept. 27, this may change. 1997 will be recognized individually year, chances are, you won't get rec­"The curmnt commencement exer­
more politically, 
socially aware 
during the commencement weekend ognized," said Kuwick in explaining cises are not consistent with the per­this spring. And according to Senior that only those involved in these cere­sonalized and family-like nature of a By JP COONEY Class President Kevin Kuwick, things monies separate from the University's Notre Dame education," the resolu­
N<w' Writer 
are not going to change for future main ceremony, will be named. classes, unless students voice their But with the help of Kuwick and the
Tlw Ameriean Couneil on Education recently see DIPLOMA I page 4 nofeasml its annual survey of the attitudes of col­lege hound freshman across the country. The results of this survey show that Notre Dame 
Plessy explored on its centennial
l'reshnwn vary remarkably from their peers. Thny are more politically active and more inclirwd to soeial action. Brooks-Higginbotham opens 
The survny, which profiles the political and social views of the 1.52 million American college 
series with examination of
frtlshmen, was crnated in 1966 and is conducted annually by UClA This year's results are based on the rnsponses of 240,000 students at 4 73 two­cases public consequences year and four-ytlar institutions ineluding the By MARK FUSSA 
I.1JOH in the 1995-96 Notre Dame freshmen class. News Writer 
One of tlw most significant ways that Notre Dame students differ from their national coun­This year marks the one hundredth anniversary of ttlrparts is on their views of soda! action. 94% of the Supreme Court's 1896 Plessy vs. Ferguson rul­Notrn Dame freshman have participated in volun­ing, which al'firmed the legality of segregation. Last teer service in the past year, whereas 70°/., of stu­night at the lleshurgh Library Auditorium, Evelyn dnnts nationwide have. 34% of freshmen believe Brooks-lligginbotham of llarvard University pre­that it is unlikely that an individual can bring sented a lecture entitled "Hernembering Plessy: The about ehangtl in sodety, a ten year high. Only Haeial Construction of Citizenship", which investigat­20'){, of Notrtl Dame frnshnwn, on the other hand, ed the role of African-Americans as eitizens. feel that way. Brooks-Higginbotham used the Plessy ruling as a 
Tlwse statistics come as little surprise to most backdrop to investigate the role of blacks as citizens nwmhNs of the Notre Danw community. "85% of at the turn of the century. According to Brooks­our student body eonws from a Catholic back­lligginbotham, the Louisiana state legislature passnd ground," said Flanner rector Father Bill Seeteh. a law in July of 1890 mandating the segregation of "In llw past twnnty years Catholic parishes and railroads, supplanting an 1H68 law which stipulates schools have stressed the importance of being "all people should enjoy equal rights." Within days, aetivtl in the romrnunity, rather than solely going said Brooks-lligginbotham, the black community of to church." Louisiana responded. 
"Some of this has to do with the high schools In 1892, Homer Plessy, a man who was seven­that pnopk went to," commented Zahm fn~shman eighths white, was arrested by detectives in the Chris Walknr. "A lot of pnople who come hnre, white-only section of a train. Four years later, the 
mysnlf included, went to Catholic school and were case reached the Supreme Court, and segregation rt~quirtld to do community service. I think many was upheld. ptwpltl had a positive experience that they want Brooks-Higginhotham discussed the main points 
to repeat it on their own." from the eourt brief of Albion Tourgee, an attorney 
The survey also indicates that Notre Dame stu­who provided his services to the cause, to provide dents arn more concerned with social, family, and insight into the status of blacks as citizens. She dis­personal values. 45% ol' Notre Dame froshmen cussed Tourgee's brief in terms of "the public as pri-
Evelyn Brooks-Higginbotham discusses the implications of the Plessy 
see FROSH 1page vs. Ferguson ruling last night in the Hesburgh Library Auditorium. ______________s_e_e_P_L_E...,.S_S_Y,..-/,....p_a_g_e--,-4
4 


--~---­
-----·--------------------------------------------------------------------------~--------------­
page 2 
• h1SlDE COLUMN 

Just Another Alternative Joe 
"Turn that crap off you -------­
disturbing little dumbass!" My roommate, Toby, threw 

down his calculus book in disgust. "Do you have to crank that stereo up and prance around every time you walk into this room?" 
As usual I tuned out the fatass and went about my business. When I 
reached to turn up my CD player I recognized 
Joe Villinski Assistant Sports Editor 
the opening chords of Live's "Lightning Crashes" and smiled. This song was an anthem of sorts for the crowd I liked to call my friends. You see, we're a little different than your average Domers. As the song con­tinued to caress my alabaster eardrums, I could feel my soul gently drifting far above Toby's unceasing remonstrations. 
Suddenly, however, I was thrust back into my unnerving reality. Toby had a firm grip of my Underroos and was hoisting me six inches above the ground. "My mom was right," he squealed, "I always get stuck with walking freakshows for roommates." 
Toby was nearly hyperventilating. He noticed a large "s" shaped vein in his own forehead grow and pulsate as his likeness reflected in the lenses of my gaudy, black horn-rimmed glasses. The intensity of Toby's scowl reached the very pit of my being. I was left with a wrenching abdominal pain which immediately reminded me of the time I broke my spleen wrestling with my sister. 
Sensing my vulnerability, Toby's verbal bar­rage persisted. "Even though I always used generic words like "moron" and "jackass-boy" to describe you Joe, I just know that there has to be a term for people like you, who's every word and action I find vexatious and nauseat­ing." Toby's normally viscous American blood was now boiling. "You know what you are Joe? You're... You're........" 
"ALTERNATIVE?" I yelped like a yard dog in heat. "My Uncle Kirk used to tell me that if the shoe fits....Well in this case the Chuck Taylor's are snug as hell!" 
"Yeah," I continued, "maybe I am alterna­tive! And if your fat mainstream ass don't like it, too bad!" 
"Well I feel sorry for you Alternative Joe. Mom says you're a waste of flesh and bones and that you're ruining your life." 
"Toby, you intolerant cretin, do you honestly believe I choose to live my life out of touch with popular culture, subjugated to a lifetime sentence of flannel wearing and chain-smok­ing?" Tension was at an all time high. I felt a cool draft titillate the perimeter of my dank, drippy armpits. Had I not been such a wuss, we may have come to blows. 
Once again a song by one of the "fringe" bands I loved resounded in our room. Smashing Pumpkin's "Bullet with Butterfly Wings" worked its fabled alternative magic, building a transcendental bridge of under­standing, where ignorance once reigned. I could have sworn I saw a tear dot the corner of Toby's flabby eye socket. "I must admit," he said, "at times I do sometimes equate my plight to that of a rat in a cage." I also began to sob incessantly. 
Understanding had trampled our hatred and ignorance, much the way the alternative movement has trampled individuality on col­lege campuses everywhere. 
Aaron Skalicky contributed helpful insights. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of.The Observer. 
• TODAY'S STAFF  
News Melanie "Boys have cooties" Laflin Deborah "I'm a stud mama" Schultz Sports Joe "the winking bandit"  Graphics Chris Mullins Viewpoint Meaghan Smith Production Jana Bruder Belle Bautista  

--~~------------.... 
Tuesday, February 20, 1996
The Observer • INSIDE 
• WORlD AT A GLANCE 

1996 presidential candidates voice their platforms 

.~ ~.·..··~.·.•...·..·.··.·'·.uit·-!J,.I~ 'l·····1. : .... ·.·."·..  ............ 1~·.~r······.:. ..:-.·.., :: .. '· .... _ :.·· ..,..,.  
Steven Forbes Publisher  Dick Lugar Senator from Indiana  
Yes, with restrictions  No  
Opposes quotas  Opposes quotas  
Umlled  Yes  
Yes  No  


Supports two· yaarllmiton 

keep control: states freeze grants aid to advocates for five ~:,ars recipients able "workfare• at 1994 els. to work 
How would health care work?  Make Medicare  State block  Tax·free individual  Federal  Favors medical  Favors medical  
laSt as long as possible  grants would fund Medicaid. Medicare  mediCal savings accounts  government keeps Medicare; states get Medicaid  savings accounts  savings accounts; would Increase quaiHylng age for Social Security  

Passenger jet skids off runway 
HOUSTON 
A Continental Airlines jet skidded on its belly off a run­way Monday while landing at Intercontinental Airport, apparently when its landing gear collapsed. Authorities said none of the 82 passengers and five crew members aboard Flight 1943 was seriously injured. One man was hospitalized with back pain. Passengers aboard the DC­9, en route from Washington's National Airport and due to continue to Las Vegas, said the landing gear appeared to collapse seconds after hitting the runway on a clear morning. "All I could hear was metal grinding on the runway and pieces breaking off, and it was a horrible feeling," Richard Fisher said. The plane came to rest flat in a grassy area near the end of the runway. Fisher and other passengers said smoke began filling the cabin after the plane stopped. Fire department officials said there were no flames when they arrived, and the airline said it didn't know what caused the smoke. Continental spokesman Ned Walker said there was no immediate clue as to what caused the accident. The~ three-hour flight from Washington had been uneventful. 
NASA prepares for satellite problems 
CAPE CANAVERAL, Fla. 
Suppose, just suppose, Columbia's astronauts are reel­ing in a half-ton satellite at the end of a 12.8-mile cord when the motor inexplicably revs, yanking the satellite toward the space shuttle like an incoming cannonball. Or maybe a micrometeorite whizzes by and severs the teth­er, whipping the cord around the shuttle. Or maybe the cord goes slack and -boing! -the satellite becomes an out-of-control yo-yo. Maybe, maybe, maybe. The seven astronauts assigned to NASA's upcoming mission with the tethered satellite have trained for such dire pos­sibilities and more during two years of preparation on the ground in simulators. "All very hairy," said astro­naut Franklin Chang-Diaz, the crew's chief scientist It will be the second trip into space for Italy's tethered satellite, which got no farther than 840 feet out the last time and almost had to be ditched. Chang-Diaz and three other astronauts who flew on that failed 1992 mission are back, along with many of the same flight controllers and scientists. The countdown for Thursday's liftoff began Monday afternoon. 
Doctors hope cop will speak again 
CHATTANOOGA, Tenn. 
The severely brain-damaged policeman who aston­ished doctors and family by talking for the first time in 7 1/2 years may speak again, although the probability is a mystery. "I have honest hopes that he may speak again," neurologist Bruce Kaplan said Monday. "I do not have honest hopes he will get beyond severe neurological disability." Gary Dockery, 42, was shot in the head in 1988 by a drunken man while on duty. Since then, he has occasionally communicated by blinking his eyes or nod­ding his head, primarily to his family. He cannot chew, swallow or speak. He is paralyzed completely on his right side, partially on his left. Dockery amazed family and doctors by suddenly speaking coherently over an 18-hour period Feb. 11, a day after he was hospitalized for life­threatening pneumonia. Since surgery last Thursday to remove fluid from his lungs, he has communicated by opening and moving his eyes, squeezing hands, nodding to answer questions and moving his leg and arm upon command. "He does none of this consistently," Kaplan said. 
Group seeks truce over logging policy 
WASHINGTON 
A tradition-rich national forest conference reconvenes 
Tuesday, seeking a truce between timber companies and 
environmentalists at a time when tension over U.S. log­
ging policy is at a historic high. "The time has come for 
the nation to turn away from polarization and toward 
consensus," Forest Service Chief Jack Ward Thomas said 
in a welcome prepared for the Seventh American Forest 
Congress. The congress first met in 1882. The five-day 
event here brings together corporate officers, profes­
sional foresters, academics and-for the first time-en­
vironmentalists and other conservation-minded citizens. 
It's the first meeting of the congress since 1975, when the 
U.S. Congress passed a series of environmental laws that now are under attack by majority Republicans and some conservative Democrats. The second meeting, called by Teddy Roosevelt in 1905, led to the creation of the national forest system, which now stretches across 191 million acres. Hopes were high for this conference when it was announced last October and a series of 51 local meetings gathered citizen views. 


The AccuWeather® forecast lor noon, Tuesday, Feb. 20. Lines separate high temperature zones for the day. 
COLD WARM STATIONARY 

C 1996 AccuWeather, Inc. 
Pressute HJGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN f.STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY 


Villinski Lab Tech Kathleen "go sporrs"Lopez Katie Kroener 
The Obsc:rver (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday 
except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a· member of 
the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
Atlanta  73  53  Dallas  85  54  New Orleans 45  57  
Baltimore 53  41  Denver  63  41  New York  83 41  
Boston  51  38  Los Angeles 65  56  Philadelphia 52  42  
Chicago  46  35  Miami  72  57  Phoenix 80  60  
Columbus 55  44  Minneapolis 46  24  St. Louis65  44  

'Juesday, February 20, 1996 
The Observer • NEWS page 3 
• BOARD OF GOVERNANCE 

Panel discusses the
Nefertiti proposal approved 

importance of service 
By MAGGIE WALSH and a one woman production brochures to residents in early 
N~ws Wri1er 
Saint Mary's Board of Gover­nance (BOG) has approved a eo-sponsorship proposal pre­sentnd by the Sisters of Nefer­titi. The Sisters of Nefertiti will reenive $3,500 to help offset the eosts for their upcoming Spirit of Blackness Week. 
This second annual week long event, which begins on Ft~b. 26, has activities planned to promote campus awareness and support. Some events include an original play, writ­lt~n by student Alia Paige, called "A Place at the Table'', 
presented in Moreau's Little Theater. 
The proposal for the Student Leadership Award is being pro­cessed and will probably be fi­nalized in the near future. Saint Mary's students will be called upon to help select the student nominees. 
BOG is nearing completion of informational brochures. The pamphlets will contain the Saint Mary's Mission Statement and descriptions of each of the four major leadership organi­zations on campus. Representatives will probably be hand delivering the 
April. 

In other BOG business, new representatives were assigned to Admission and Scholarship, Fire and Safety, and the Cur­riculum Committees. The Spiritual Club has created a new branch, called Club Life, and is looking to finalize the approval so that the club can have a table at Activities Night in the fall. 
BOG has also hired an artist to create a logo for the renam­ing of the snack bar at Haggar . BOG is now holding its weekly meetings at 9 p.m. on Sunday evenings. 
Gore supports Everglades 
By TOM WELLS A"ncia1ed Press 
EVEHGLADES , Fla. 
The Clinton administration wants to double spending to re­store the Everglades to about $1.5 billion, funded in part by cutting subsidies to Florida sugar farmnrs, Viee President AI Gore said Monday. 
Part of the money would be used to buy 126,000 acres of land for an attl~mpt to restore some of the Everglades de­graded by decades of draining, farming, pollution and devel­opnwnt. (;ore spoke alongside a small lagoon at the Hoyal Palm Visitor's Center in Everglades National Park. Two alligators floatt~d nearby. 
"W!l are dealing with an ex­tremely fragile system that is 
on the verge of collapse," Gore said of the Everglades, a vast sheet of water known as the River of Grass that stretches about 50 to 75 miles wide across southern Florida. The water goes on to nourish Florida Bay. 
"We must pass on to our chil­dren a planet as healthy as that left to us," he said. 
Part of the administration's funding for the program would come from a one-penny reduc­tion in the current 18-cent-per­pound subsidy paid to sugar farmers in the Everglades area of South Florida. 
The subsidy reduction would raise $35 million each year for seven years for land acquisi­tion, Gore said, calling it "very small reduction in the very sig­nificant subsidy." 

There have been proposals in Washington to make all Florida sugar growers pay 2 cents on each pound of sugar to buy and restore land. 
Florida's two senators, Democrat Bob Graham and Re­publican Connie Mack, coun­tered with a proposal to tax sugar produced everywhere across the nation. A federal farm bill passed earlier this month by the Senate called for spending $200 million but with­out fees. 
The Everglades vs. sugar is­sue has figured in the debate on the farm bill as well as in presidential politics. The heavi­ly financed sugar lobby has clout, but so does the growing number of Florida residents who blame sugar growers for damaging the environment. 

Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
Ash Wednesday 
February 21, 1996 
MASSES 
11:30 a.m. Robert Moss, CSC, Presider 
Sacred Music Provided by the Basilica Schola 
5:00p.m:~· 
Robert Dowd, CSC, Presider 

Sacred Music Provided by the Notre Dame Liturgical Choir 
On Ash Wednesday and Good Friday, all Catholics between eighteen and sixty are obliged to~ that is to have only one full meal a day and only two smaller meals, eating nothing between meals. American Catholics who are 14 years or older are also obligated to abstain from meat on 
0MPU5 
MINISTRY 
Ash Wednesday and the Fridays of Lent. 
By MAUREEN HURLEY Saint Mary's News Editor 

The Saint Mary's Justice Education Department pre­sented the latest installment of its conversation series "Is com­munity still possible?" last night. The panel discussion focused on working community service projects in the South Bend area. 
The purpose of the lecture series is for "students to un­derstand that service should be considered a lifetime work, and that it is also a collabora­tive work," said Esmee Bellalta, coordinator of the jus­tice education program at Saint Mary's. 
All the panel members were involved in South Bend com­munity projects, ranging from neighborhood centers to the program "There are Children Here," created by Notre Dame Assistant Arts and Letters pro­fessor Jim Langford. 
Marco Miriani works as a neighborhood planner in South Bend, implementing the Good Neighbors/Good Neighborhoods program started by South Bend Mayor Joseph Kernan in 1993. "The purpose is to get the gov­ernment back into the neigh­borhood, with existing neigh­borhood associations working to come together to improve their own neighborhood," Miriani said. 
Patti Huettl, director of the Rum Village Center, agreed. "The center is a place where people collaborate to make it work. People working together to a common goal-that's what volunteerisrn is." Erik Christensen and Evan Sockalosky, both Notre Dame graduate students, were in Bel­lalta's class last year, and spoke of their experience working with the Rum Village Center project. 
"As an architecture student, I was able to bring technical knowledge to show them what could be done with their ideas," said Sockalosky. "This project has already gotten underway. That's exciting to see." 
"Architecture is all about people. It's important to have a working relationship with the clients to tackle a community problem together." said Chris­
~ -D. G"£AT Restau.rant and 

~~ ·~•~ Cocktatl Lounge
\YALL Ma~~:7~~~H~~~C~;sme 
Bar and Restauraunt open 7 days a week 
Lunches starting at__ $4.25 ,.llll'd Jh-,1
Dinners starting at __ $5.95 
l )ril·Jlt,d l{l',J.lul'.tJlt
Banquet rooms available for up yo 200 
in ~lil hi.1n.l h\ 130 Dixie Way N.,South Bend ,\JjlftiiiiHI :\'fill' (next to Randall's Inn) 
FCA (Fellowship of Christian Athletes) 
1sT faith-sharing talk of the semester. 
"How Valuable is our time?" 
8PM 
In the 

Sorin Room 
(1st floor LaFortune) 
February 21sT 

tensen. "It was good to work with the community; we dealt with a lot of sensitive issues that we usually don't think about as students." 
Langford and his wife, Jill, began a community project on their own. The Langfords pur­chased 16 acres in Lakefield to begin the program 'There Arc Children Here.' 
"There are five-year-olds liv­ing in Michiana with incredible stresses in their lives," Lang­ford said. "You see their smiles, and see that they can play in a place with no drive bys and no bad guys, and relax" 
"We're almost finished with construction. We figure when we're up and running, we'll be able to have 2000 children and volunteers stay there per year." 
All the panelists stressed the importance of community ser­vice in college life. "It's little things that have made a signifi­cant difference in other peo­ple's lives," said Huettl. 
The next lecture in the series takes place on Mon., Mar. 4 at 
6:30 p.m. in Stapleton Lounge. The topic is "Community based social work." 
• SECURITY BEAT 
FRI., FEB. 16 

9:03 a.m. A University employee was transported to Memorial Hospital for treatment of an Illness. 
4:47 p.m. Security responded to a two car accident on Old Juniper Aoad. there were no Injuries reported. 
SAT., FEB. 17 

3:30 a.m. A Pangborn Hall resident was transported to St. Jospeh Medical Center for treatment of Injuries sus· tained during a fall. 
5:00 a.m. Security and Notre Dame Fire responded to a lire alarm at Grace Hall. 
1:12 p.m. Security transported a unl· varsity employee to St. Jospeh Medical Center for treatment of Injuries sus· rained during a fall. 
6:35 p.m. A Flanner Hall resident re· ported the theft of his bike from the Flanner Hall bike rack. 
SUN., FEB. 18 

12:33 p.m. Security responded to a hit and run accident at the Main Gate Circle. 
1:48 p.m. AKeenan Hall Aetlldent re· ported the theft or his wallet from his un· locked room. 
5;14 p.m. Security stopped two juve· niles at University village. the were Identified and later released. 
Chinese -American 
page 4 The Observer • NEWS Tuesday, February 20, 1996 
Frosh 
continued from page 1 
feel it important to influence social values versus 38% nationally; 84% want to raise a family versus 71% nationally; 59% feel it is essential to devel­op a meaningful philosophy of life versus 42% nationally. These statistics indicate a sig­nificant difference between the average Notre Dame freshmen and other freshmen across the country. 
"Students who apply to Notre Dame want to stand out," said Farley freshman Melia Checcia. "They come from strong fami­lies and are encouraged to be­lieve they can make a differ­ence. Their families have al­ready instilled lasting values." 
These statistics are also not surprising to the Notre Dame Admissions Office. "We don't search for students with values by using a checklist," stated Admissions Counselor Pat Leonardo. "We are looking for students who are active and 
Plessy 
continued from page 1 
vate domain", "the reputation and respectability of white­ness", and racial classification. 
Brooks-Higginbotham sums up "the public as private" as the cultural trend that "public space came to signify private property just as whiteness meant private property." The Louisiana law, Brooks­Higginbotham explains. turned what was once public property into the exclusive domain of white society. Tourgee, Plessy's attorney, argued that by forcing his client to move, his right to use property was deprived. 
Segregation "constructed a society of insiders and outsiders according to access to this pub­lic property," said Brooks-Hig­ginbotham. 
"Numerous state legislatures devised ingenious schemes to deny public spaces to blacks," she said. 
Taking the second point, the reputation and respectability of being white, Brooks-Higgin­whose teachers and counselors tell us they are the greatest things on earth. Often that equates to sound values." 
Notre Dame freshmen also seem to be more politically aware than the average stu­dent. Only 29% of American freshmen feel it is important to stay politically aware, while 53% of Notre Dame freshmen feel that way. Notre Dame's freshmen also tend to be politi­cally more conservative, and hold definitive views on issues. 
While more than half of en­tering college students feel that abortion should be legal, just 38% of Notre Dame freshmen feel that way. 21% think the death penalty should be abol­ished, while 35% of Notre Dame freshmen think so. The widest gap between Notre Dame fresh­men and their peers appears in their feelings about sex. 43% of entering freshman feel that it is okay for two people to have sex if they really like each othP.r even if they have only known each other a short time. Just 22% of Notre Dame freshman approve of sex in that situation. 
P.E. freshman Anne Searle 
botham told the assembled crowd that the Plessy ruling denied blacks respectability in the eyes of the rest of society. She said, "African Americans didn't want to be white, they claimed the respectability of white society and all it allowed." 
Tourgee argued to the court that this ruling prevented Plessy from claiming his white­ness as his property, said Brooks-Higginbotham. Chal­lenging the court and under­scoring the importance of the white reputation, Tourgee wrote "most whites, if given the choice, would prefer death to being colored." 
Finally, Brooks-Higginbotham covered her final point, that of racial classification. "The dif­ference in equality wasn't Tourgee's issue. His issue was the standard," she said. 
According to Brooks-Higgin­botham, Tourgee pointed out that many states had different standards of race, but all Southern states eventually adopted the "one drop rule" which stated that if one drop of your blood was from a black ancestor, you were classified as 


• 1995-96 SEASON • NOTRE DAl'v\[ COl'v\MUNICATION AND THEATRE f>IUSENTS 
PLr\YING r\[ W:\SIIINGT('IN IIALL ON THURSDW, FUIRUt\RY 22, FRID;\\, FEI\RLI:\RY 23 AND SA!liRl}\), FUIRLI:\RY 24-(MAliNli AND [V[NING) M·\SlTRCMw AND VIS:\ Owms CALL: 631·8128 
SuLJpJP>orted by a grant from the P a1111.ll\-1. and! Barbara Henkels Visiting §dholar Series and the Kns6t1!llte for SchollarshiJP> in the Liberal Arts. 
said, ''I'm not at all surprised by this. Notre Dame students typically come from predomi­nantly conservative, Catholic, and upper-middle class fami­lies." 
"Just take a look in the man­room and you'll see why our students are well-informed and concerned with politics," com­mented Seetch. "There are lots of Times and Newsweek mag­azines around there. They read the paper and watch the news. There are lots of self­starting students who are will­ing to take a stand." 
While Notre Dame freshmen are considered to be socially concerned and politically active, only 20% of them have participated in a demonstration in the past year, compared to 41% of their peers. "Notre Dame students are more likely to want to have a direct impact on their community in ways other demonstrations," said Lewis freshman Colleen Newman. "They feel that by actively serving their communi­ty they can make more of a dif­ference than by demonstrat­ing." 
black. 

Tourgee ridiculed this rule, said Brooks-Higginbotham, by reversing the law, asking "is a single drop of black blood enough to color an ocean of caucasian whiteness." 
The issues dealt with by the "forward looking" Albion Tourgee, primarily the defini­tion of race, are still hard for our society to deal with said Brooks-Higginbotham. But she considers those difficulties to be a call to arms, saying "to remember Plessy vs. Ferguson is to remember the challenge given to us from our past." 
Diplo01a 
continued from page 1 

tion read. "The Undergraduate community desires a personal presentation of diplomas." 
The committee led by the se­nior class was created by the Senate to convey student inter­ests regarding this matter to the Provost's Office. 
And efforts to bring students' concerns to those in charge were made, according to Kuwick, who discussed the matter with Registrar Harold Pace and Associate provost Sister Kathleen Cannon. 
"I was asked by the Provost to find the best way to develop several individual ceremonies," Pace said. "We discussed times and places and passed along a scenario to the Provost." 
According to Cannon there were two different proposals presented by the students. 
•Every 
undergraduate at the University commencement cer­emony would be named and would walk across the stage. However, as Cannon explained, allowing 15 seconds per each of the 1800 undergraduates would add two hours and 45 minutes to the ceremony. 

•The 
colleges would hold in­dividual commencement cere­monies. 


According to Cannon, the sec­ond proposal was sent to the Provost's Advisory Council, which, in its first review of the proposal, discussed it with the Registrar's Office and person­nel at the Joyce Athletic and Convocation Center. After con­sidering the sizes of the groups and the number of workers needed to set up for the cere­monies, the Council and Com­mittee members realized upon second review that individual ceremonies were going to be impossible due to the logistics. 
"We weren't really able to get to 'the front' with a solid well­thought out proposal," Kuwick said. 
"It won't happen this year," said Kuwick, who, in response to Pace's efforts, explained that such an event can not simply be worked around the previ­ously scheduled events. 
"You can't just fit it in. You have to start all over," he said. 
Which is what Kuwick is still trying to do -if not for his own class, for those following. 
Although it is too late for commencement exercises to change for the class of '96, there is still hope for future classes. 
"It'll have to be next year," Kuwick continued. The commit­tee has constructed five or six schedules, including one plan which has individual cere­monies for each college "spread out" over the weekend. One of these proposals will be presented to the Provost's Office after Spring Break. 
Cannon and Pace added that there is still a chance that a more personalized ceremony be included in the weekend, specifically during the depart­mental distribution of diplo­mas. These departmental receptions can be "enhanced" and made more formal, Pace suggested. 
For now, the biggest problem facing the Commencement Committee is not only the ad­ministration, according to Kuwick -it's the students. 
Student awareness will be the key to changing the way Notre Dame students complete their education, according to Kuwick, who urged the student body to voice its opinion. 
The PAN-AFRICAN CULTURAL CENTER, in 
association with the Salon of Friendship and the African-American Student Alliance, PRESENTS 
Dr. Theophile Obenga 

in the Department 

Public Lecture Comparison Between African & European Values Of Civilization 
Tuesday, February 20 Wednesday, February 21 12:15-1:15 PM 7:30PM Montgomery Theatre, LaFortune Hesburgh Library Auditorium 
ANCIENT AFRICAN HISTORY 
Feb., 19, 3:00-4:30 PM Room 204 O'Shaughnessy Feb., 20, 7:00-8:30 PM Room 242 O'Shaughnessy Feb., 21, 12:15-1:15 PM 242 O'Shaughnessy Feb., 22, 12:15-1:15 PM Montgomery Theatre, LaFortune 
The first in a series of three academic seminars designed to insure a greater Intellectual re resentation of Africa in the curriculum of the Universi 
Dr. Theophile Obenga's visit to Notre Dame is part ofour City-Wide Black History Month Celebration Program throughout Spring Semester ,1996. 

NB: Sl donations are welcome at any of these events Tuesday, February 20, 1996 The Observer • INTERNATIONAL NEWS page 5 
• WALES • ENGLAND 
Salvage team hopes to reboard crippled tanker 
A.uo~iated Pre.u 
ST. ANN'S HEAD 

Twenty members of a salvage tnam boarded a crippled tanker leaking oil into a pristine wildlife sanctuary and began preparations Monday to pump thll oil into smaller vessels. 
Attaehnd to two tugs, the Sea Empress was battered overnight by high seas and strong winds off the southwest coast of Wallls. 
The Sea Empress ran aground Thursday on St. Ann's I lead at the tip of the western promontory guarding the mouth of Milford !Iaven estu­ary, onll of Britain's leading wildlife conservation amas. 
At high tidll Monday evening thn tanknr lifll~d oiT the bottom and began moving. 
"She was afloat and moved quite quickly some consider­able distance," a salvage work­er said on condition that he not be named. 
When the tide runs out, the Sea Empress should rest again on the bottom. he said. 
Estimates of the oil spillage have been dropped from 1.8 million gallons to 300,000 gal­lons, about 1 percent of its cargo. Although the leakage is much less than the 11 million gallons spilled in 1989's Exxon Valdez disaster in Alaska, there is still potential for substantial damage. 
The oil has already killed some 3,000 rare rock pool starfish at West Angle Bay, close to the stranded tanker. 
;' . ..__.lA
• \1i!·.··. 
Kohl meets Yeltsin to discuss re-election bids 
By SERGEI SHARGORODSKY 
As.nd;ucd l'r~ss 
MOSCOW 

Pn~sidllnt Boris Yeltsin dis­eussed his re-nleetion bid with Chanenllor Helmut Kohl of Germany on Monday and said hn was worrind by thtl deerease of German business intllrnsts in Hussia. 
Yeltsin said it has beeorne ap­panmt that c;errnan businesses am waiting to st~e who wins the .June ballot, following the Communists' and nationalists' victory in December's parlia­nwntary polls. 
"GtlrrtHlll businessmen want to wait until .lurw to see thll fate of reforms," he said after meeting with Kohl. 
Yeltsin announced Thursday that he is seeking a second term. lie trails in opinion polls behind Communist leader Gen­nady Zyuganov. 
Some Hussian news reports said Kohl's visit was planned as an endorsement of Yeltsin's candidacy and a boost to his campaign. 
Outright Western support of Yeltsin is not necessarily bene­ficial to the Russian president, however. His Communist and nationalist opponents accuse him of being too friendly with the West -at Russia's ex­pense. 
By ROBERT BARR 
Associated Press 

LONDON 
The IRA claimed responsibil­ity Monday for a blast that ripped through a double-decker bus in central London, killing one person and injuring nine. Police said they believed the bomb was detonated acciden­tally and the carrier may have been among the victims. 
Two people were arrested Monday under anti-terrorism laws, Scotland Yard said. But it refused to say whether they were connected to the Sunday night explosion. 
Despite some Protestant polit­ical leaders' demands that the government locked up all sus­pected IRA leaders, British and Irish leaders continued trying to salvage the battered peace process in Northern Ireland. 
The Irish Hepublican Army had already killed two people in London since calling off its 17­month cease-fire Feb. 9. 
Scotland Yard said there was no warning before the 10:38 
p.m. explosion at the edge of the theater district, near Covent Garden's popular restaurants and bars. 
Commander John Grieve, head of Scotland Yard's anti­terrorist unit, said the bus "was not the intended target," al­though he couldn't say what was. 
The IRA, in a statement tele­phoned to the British Broad­casting Corp. in Belfast, North­ern Ireland, claimed responsi­bility. 
"We can say at this stage we regret the loss of life and in­juries which occurred," the caller said. 
The mangled and burned wreckage continued to block traffic Monday while police technicians probed for clues. Buses carry video cameras, but it wasn't known if they survived the blast. 
Four victims of the blast re­mained hospitalized Monday. 
Dr. David Williams, director of Accidents and Emergencies at St. Thomas' Hospital, where the victims were treated, con­firmed Monday that armed guards were on duty in the hos­pital. Scotland Yard refused to comment on the reason for the e~tra security. 
Williams said one injured man, 38-year-old Half Hobart of Torquay in southwestern Eng­land, suffered severe injuries on the right side of his face and was in critical condition. His girlfriend, Denise Hall, 30, also was injured. 
Londoners. meanwhile, set-
INSTITUTE FOR INTERNATIONAL PEACE STUDlES 
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAA-1£ 
Telephone: (219) 631-6970 Fa.x: (219) 631-6973 
Two arrested in IRA bombing 
"You have always got it in the back of your mind that you could be in the same street next time," said John Langton, who was delivering meat Monday near the scene of the bombing. 
"I am just carrying on as nor­mal. There is nothing you can do -except hope the bombs don't come to you." 
Peter Robinson, deputy leader of the Democratic Unionist Party, the third-largest and exclusively Protestant party in Northern Ireland, urged the government to simply lock up suspected IHA leaders. 
However, Sir Patrick May­hew, Britain's minister respon­sible for governing Northern Ireland, said the search for a peaceful settlement would con­tinue despite the bombing. He rejected Protestant calls for the government to end all contacts with the IHA's allies in the Sinn Fein party. 
"It's perfectly clear that this (bombing) is part of a campaign designed to make the British government, a democratic gov­ernment. comply with the wish­es of terrorists. But of course that's going to fail," Mayhew said. 
John Hume, leader of the So­cial Democratic and Labor Party, which gets most Roman Catholic votes in Northern Ire­land, met for two hours Monday with British Prime Minister John M~jor. Hume said they exchanged proposals, but he gave no details. 
"I welcome the fact that the government is urgently dealing with the matter by meeting with all parties and with the Irish government," said Hume, 
U vc.::.mi:.-.g e-ve.-.ts 
Lecture 

Jean Be~hke Elsh~ain 
Laura A. Spelntan, Prof. ofSocial and Political Ethics, University ofChicago 
"Civil Patriotism or Cosmopolitism?" "The King is Dead Sovereignty at the Wednesday, February 21 , 1996 Century's E.nd" 
4: ISPM 

Thursday, February 22, 1996 
I 0:15AM 
Hesburgh Center Auditorium University of Notre Dame 

EVERYC>...... E WELCC>,....E! 
111111 


AP 
whose secret dialogue with Sinn Fein president Gerry Adams contributed to the IHA cease-fire. 
Bertie Ahern, leader of Fi­anna Fail, the largest party in the republic of Ireland, said he planned to meet this week with Adams. Ahern's party had en­thusiastically welcomed Sinn Fein as a partner in the peace process following the IHA cease-fire in September 1994. 
"We have some very strong things to say to him .... but whether he can do anything about it, I don't know," Ahern told Ireland's HTE radio. 
The IHA's return to violence, Ahern said, "makes no sense whatever. It's just unbelievable stupidity." 
Proinsias de Rossa, Ireland's social welfare minister, said Sinn Fein could not expect other parties to yield to its de­mand for negotiations while the bombings continue. 

"The easiest part is to stop killing people, and the IRA can stop doing that immediately, if they so choose. The difficult part is finding accommodation for people to sit down to talk to each other," said de Hossa, who was imprisoned as an IRA member in the 1950s. 
PLEASE RECYCLE 
THE 
OBSERVER. 


Raise Your Scoresl 

-------~---· 
~-----------------------------------------------· 
page 6 The Observer • NEWS Tuesday, February 20, 1996 

• BOSNIA 
Pitfalls obstruct path to peace 
By DAVID CRARY could unravel the successes.
D Bosnian government­EEll Serbs

Associated Press Like Steiner, Walker cited the 
Groat federation 

often halfhearted commitment SARAJEVO 
to peace displayed by political 
The guns that shattered leaders. schoolrooms and market stalls "They are not indicating that are silent, the armies sepa­they want peace at any price," rated. But the hard part is still he said in his headquarters in ahead. Ilidza, a tense Serb suburb out­
Bosnia has indeed emerged side Sarajevo. 'There has to be from war, thanks to a NATO­some sense of reconciliation ­Jed force that has carved out a the political leadership has to twisted maze of buffer zones be prepared to compromise and polices them with world­some of its more hardline posi­&lass firepower. tions." 
Peace is far from assured, On paper, the peace accord however, despite renewed creates a unified Bosnia group­pledges of cooperation from ing together a Serb republic
Major pitfalls facing the Bosnian 

Balkan leaders at a weekend peace agreement. and a Muslim-Croat federation. summit in Rome. But the Serbs have severed
Land transfer: NATO-led troops are

Foremost among the pitfalls, contacts with the federation
enforcing demilitarized zone along former 

say Western generals and and the federation itself is in
front line. But Serbs around Sarajevo are diplomats, is the Jack of good­angered by a land transfer scheduled for trouble. March 19.
will and trust among Bosnia's Croats in Mostar have balked Muslim, Serb and Croat lead­Musllm-Croat Federation: at efforts to reunify the south­ers. Created as counterweight to Serb region western city devastated by
in new, divided Bosnia. But Croats and

Rather than plunging whole­Muslim-Croat fighting there in
Muslims fought bitterly in 1993-1994, and

heartedly toward peace, they 1993-94. One reason is contin­
distrust remains. 

seem to be maneuvering for ued Croat animosity toward
Elections: Elections are supposed to

advantage in some future Muslims; another is the influ­
be organized by next fall. But complicatedround of diplomatic or military power-sharing arrangement for planned ence of crime gangs and cor­confrontation. government looks much like political rupt police in Croat-ruled west 
structure that collapsed when Bosnia

While they all have different Mostar who flourish in a di­
descended into war in 1992.

motives for avoiding genuine vided city. reconciliation, most of them Brcko corridor: Left unresolved by The NATO-led force has no peace accord. Serbs need route to connect
view continued ethnic tension mandate to grapple with Croat­
Banja Luka with eastern Bosnia and Serb· 

as the hest way for them to stay Muslim tensions, since the two
led Yugoslavia. Bosnian government needs in power. rail and road links north to outside world. sides nominally are allies. "The leaders are not clear yet Walker said it wouldn't do any what they want," said Michael AP good anyway "to bang their 
single community again, is in

Steiner, a German who is heads together" if there was no 
jeopardy.

deputy chief of a mission over­goodwill.
Ahead are more challenges:

seeing civilian aspects of the Many of the military and civil­
the actual transfer of control

peace process. ian experts deployed in Bosnia 
over territory, particularly

"Will they go all out for sense that ordinary people are
Serb-held Sarajevo; warehous­

peace?" Steiner wondered. "Or more open to reconciliation 
ing weaponry; organize elec­

do they want to be in the right than their leaders. 
tions for a government in which 

position if things get nasty 
former enemies will have to

again when IFOR (the NATO­
cooperate; deciding who will

led peace force) leaves?" 
get the vital Serb corridor

The peace force has success­across northern Bosnia.
fully imposed buffer zones. The 
Lt. Gen. Sir Michael Walker,

transfer of territory under the 
commander of NATO-led

Dayton peace agreement, in­
ground forces, says all three

cluding coveted Serb-held land 
sides have cooperated well in

around Sarajevo, has begun. 
military aspects of the peace

But progress has been slowed 
plan. He gives them a grade of

by Serb anger over the arrest of 90 percent. 
two senior military officers 
But he acknowledged it can
linked to war crimes. 
be frustrating to see non-mili­

Freedom of movement, cru­
tary problems arising that

cial to knitting civilians into a 
MARDI SOl 
CHEZMA 
CLC 
continued from page 1 

After reviewing the report throughout the week, the CLC had one last discussion before voting on the issue. 
Matt Schlatter, co-chair of the Hall Presidents' Council, voiced a concern that O'Hara doesn't have the direct power to "implement" the CLC's ideas as recommended in the report. 
Father Patrick Sullivan re­torted by asserting that the Board of Trustees seemed to be in favor of the report. Thus, ac­cording to Sullivan, the deci­sion whether or not to bring it to the Board should be left to O'Hara. In this way, the report could be implemented through her approval by the Board. 
Student Body President Jonathon Patrick agreed with Sullivan. Patrick added that the CLC could only had the power to recommend or advise on this issue. Thus, passing the ideas to O'Hara for recommendation was the most direct way for the CLC to proceed. 
Patrick also reminded the Council that O'Hara had one week, with the possibility of an extension, to present the CLC with her decision and the ratio­nale behind it. Patrick then suggested the resolution come to a vote, reminding the Council that a two-thirds majority was needed for the resolution to be passed. 
The resolution did pass by an overwhelming majority, with all but two members of the CLC, Assistant Dean Ava Preacher and Father Terence Linton, voting against it. Preacher had expressed reser­vations that the report didn't go far enough and might be seen as elitist by the student body since the recommended model includes only 100 seniors. 
The other resolution passed by the CLC for the considera­tion of O'Hara proposed input on future revisions of du lac by the student body. The reso­lution was proposed by Tom Matzzie, Judicial Council Presi­dent. 
The resolution, which was submitted first for discussion, All CLC members present ex­cepts for Sister Susan Bruno voted for the resolution, fulfill­ing the two-thirds majority needed. 
The resolution, which was submitted first for discussion, and then for a vote, stated: "Whereas, the current revision process for du lac excludes prior input and commentary from the Notre Dame commu­nity; and whereas the Catholic Church's social teachings en­courage the participation of in­dividuals in the decision mak­ing processes of their own community; whereas, a more inclusive du lac revision pro­cess would potentially improve student awareness of du lac and the policies contained within it. 
Therefore be it resolved, that the Campus Life Council rec­ommends that the Vice-Presi­dent for Student Affairs amend du lac to require an orga­nized public comment period as a part of the du lac revision process ... Specific revisions need not be announced, how­ever the Council asks that poli­cies under consideration for revision be specified at the beginning of the proposed organized public comment period." 
GARETH ARMSTRONG 
HAND IN HAND TO HELL: AN AcToR's PERSPECTIVE o~ RICHARD Ill AND MACL'ETH TLIESDAY, FEL'RLIARY 20 AT 4:30P.M. AT WASHINGTON HALL 
jOANNA FOSTERWILL PRESENT FRoM THE SNovv TO THE SuN: THE PoETRY oF AI\NA AKHMATOVA AND GRACE NICHOLS WEDNESDAY, FEL'RLIARY 21 AT 4:30P.M. AT WASHINGTON HALL 
VIEWPOINT 
Tuesday, February 20, 1996 
THE OBSERVER 
No1 Rl· DAM I'. OH ICF: 1'.0. Hox Q, Notre Dame, IN 465% (219) 631-7471 
SAINT MARY\ OI'Hn.: 30'! Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1995-96 General Board 
FA!i10r-in-Chief John L.uca~ Bu)incss Manager }o>eph Riley 
News Etlitur .............................. l>.aviJ Tyler Advertising Manager ........................... John Port(:r Viewpoint b.liwr ........Mt·.•ghan Smith Ad Design Manager ...................... }en Mackowiak Sports I·Alitor ..... Mike Norhut Production Manager .................. jacqueline Moser At.:(:cnl Editor ..... Krbr.1 Nanm·ry Systems Manager ............................ Scan Gallavan S.iint M.ary's hJiwr ................... l'.uci C.w~on Observer Marketing Director .......... Pcte Coleman Controller ............................................. Eric Lorge 
Iht• Oh,.cn·c:r j, du· iudt•pt•ntknr ncw!.p:lpcr puhli.!.ht·J by dJt' .\tudcms of the Univer!tity of Notre I)Jnu..· du l.o~l" .md ~.ainr M.try\ ( :olll'gt•. II does ntH ncc&:.!l!larily rcflc(l rhc polide.!. of rhc administra­llnll ol c:Uilt'T ino.,tiltuion. l"l1t' m·w' i!t n:portc:J o.1s J.n:ur:udy and objcuivdy a.!. possible. Unsigned cdi­HHIJI, rt·prC''It'nl thl· opuuon of lill· m.ajority of tht• Editor-in-Chief, MJ.n.1ging EJiwr. News Ediror, VH.·wptunr l·.diwr, Aut·nc l·.Jiwr, Plwro Editor, Spuns Editor, and Sainr Mary's Editor. Ccunmt'lliJrir!., lc.·uc.·r, .uul lmic.lc.· Columm prt·st·m tht· vic.·ws of the.· authors, and not necessarily those of .l.hc ( lh!<!crnr. Vic.·wpoant 'PJt:l' i~ ,JvJiiJblc to allmcmher!l of rhc: Norrc: f);lme/Sainr Mary's com­munny Jtul w .11! rc.•JJc:r\, The.· frcc.· c.·xpre!l.!lion of varying opinion.\ through lc:nc.·rs h encouragcd. 
Uillmer Phone Lines 
I·.Jiwr-in-Ciucf (,.~ 1-4542 llu.1itWS> Office 631-53U M.Hl.rging l·.ditor/Virwpt•iru (,.JJ-4541 AJvcrti>ing 631-6900/8840 SpurI\ (d 1-45H Sy>t<m>/Mark,·ting llcpt. 631-8839 N,-w,/t•hultl 6.~ 1-5_\l.\ Office Manager 6.~ 1-7471 Au:c.·nt/SJIIll M.1ry\ (>.~l-It 540 l'ax 631-6927 I l;l)' Edilc•r/l'rmhii.."IIOTl (._!1-5.~03 Viewpuint E-Mail Vicwpnint.l @nd.cdu {;c.·rwr.lllnll.rnureon (>_li-7471 AJ E-MJil oh!.crvcr@Jarwin.cc.nd.edu 
• AND IN THIS CORNfA 

page 7 

Fat Tuesday and the Fat Heads -Separated at Birth? 
I'd like to write about the New llampshin~ primary-no, really, I mean it. I do -except for the fact that all of tlw candidates combirwd have the same personal appeal as a month-long root canal with no anPstlwsia. 
llow sad is tlw world of polities: Buchanan rlaims he's the only Hepuhliean with "ideas" (the idea of fon:ing Americans to adlwnl to his Orwellian corH·f'pt of "family values," I suppostl); Dole says lw's tired of "mud­slinging" as lw proceeds to dish out somtl himstdf; Forbes cracks stupid 
Matthew Apple 

jokes and whirws "flat tax, flat tax" until lw's hlun in the faee; Alexander says "Vottl for me, because I'm not Dole or Buchanan"; some otlwr Hepublican no­nanHl says thtl l>tldaration of lndtlptlndt·nen is tlw "bridge" between '(;od and tlw Constitution,"' as if that means anything of any consequenee ­and Clinton's spllf't:h-writnrs continue to provtl tlwir mastNy of tlw term "vague." 
Wlwn n x -e a n d i d a t 11 Ph i I G r a m m annount:Pd his support of Dole, one of his givtln rnasons was that he believed Dole had the best ehanee to "beat Clinton." This appears to be the driving force behind all of the Hepubliean candi­dates: to "oust" the President and propel the Hepubliean party into power in the White llousn. Pardon me, but I thought the idea behind the prosidential eleetion was to vottl for the person best qualified to lead the Unillld Statlls. 
Thnse guys who only want to beat somtlontl havtl prntty much already proven that they eould eare less how they run the eountry. Presidents are 
supposed to have the public interest in mind, not their party's interests. 
Shows what I know about democracy. This November I wonder if I can vote "none of the above." 
With all of this political bull. it's really no wonder that "youth" in America are apathetic towards voting. Besides the reality that people under the age of 30 have no power (i.e., no money), the only decision we get to make is whether to vote for the old, rich white guy or the older, rich white guy. 
I notice that none of the candidates has bothered to even attempt attracting younger voters, though, excepting Lugar, all of the Republican candidates showed their interest in attracting hate­groups by attending gay-bashing rallies in Iowa. Seems they know exactly who votes in this eountry. 
But, of course, the New Hampshire Nonsense isn't the big event today ­that would have to be Mardi Gras. "Fat Tuesday," which, as my neighbors have been reminding me at all hours over the past four days. has in effect been going on all week. 
I've never really understood the rea­son for Mardi Gras -I figure if you really want to party. you don't need a reason. Of eourse, I've never really understood Lent. either. Lent: fake not enjoying yourself for a few weeks and pretend you actually care that people arc starving in Sudan in order to "pre­pare for the Coming" or similarly ccstat­ieally-wordcd phrases. 
When I was growing up. the rest of the families in our parish usually gave up luxuries such as mixed drinks, late-night pantry raids, going out to cat, or any­thing else that they eould do without most of the time anyway (note that sports activities were generally not con­sidered as Lental sacrifices). 
In my family, standard practice was for the kids to give up candy and for my mother to give up cookies. (I'm not posi­tive. but I think my father 1JSUally gives up arguing with my mother.) As you might expect, pretending not to cat candy doesn't make one very penitent. 

(That reminds me of a "Catholic" joke: For Lent a young couple decided to give up liquor. and they convinced their eight-year-old son to give up candy. Then on the first weekend of Lent, the boy discovered his parents drinking Brandy cordials. "Well. we only gave up hard liquor," the boy's mother said. "Fine," he responded obstinately, "then I'll only give up hard candy.") 
(Okay, dumb joke.) 

Actually, there is very little my family can give up for Lent. My mother insists upon forcing the family to uphold the old Church rule of "meatless Fridays or you'll burn in Hell for all Eternity," which now apparently only counts dur­ing Lent. 
The funny thing is, my family is usual­ly lucky just to have meat once a week. My family's idea of meat is hot-dogs for Sunday lunch. My parents don't drink, so that old reliable is out. Might as well be cookies (and tea; my mother goes through 100 tea bags in one week). As for the children, my siblings don't own any video game systems, so there's something else they don't have to give up. 
Probably the best thing my parents could ask my brothers to give up would be cartoons -and if you've seen the crap that's on TV now, you'd think it'd be easy to give it up. I mean, we had Voltron, the Transformers, GI Joe ­now THAT would have been a real sac­rifice. My old ploy was to ask if I could give up math homework. but for some reason that never seemed to fly. 
Then again. the idea of "giving up X" for an invented six-week period called Lent is silly. The key to most Lenten "sacrifices" is the same key to most su­permarket sales: give up somPthing you can do without. Instead of helping the unfortunate and reducing our obsession with the material world, all we have to do is temporarily reduce our luxuries. 
A real act of contrition would be to give away something we cherish and fast for a week straight. Not that I myself would go to such an extreme, but by only truly "worshipping" once or twice a year, Christians ultimately for­give themselves for not following their avowed faith. Lent winds up being a rit­ual of hypocrisy. 
Of course, I haven't even touched upon the links between the mid-winter and spring Christian celebrations and the traditional pagan rituals which the Church intentionally duplicated, but I suppose I can leave that to a future col­
umn in a more appropriate time and setting. 
Don't you just love obscure references and incoherence? You never know -I could be preparing to enter politics. All I have to do now is attaek Pat Buehanan a few times and claim I support unity. 
Nah. Too easy. 
Matthew T. Apple is a creative writing graduate student at Notre Dame who, frankly. u•as bored to tears by the Campaign '96 media coverage. Talk to him at matthew.t.apple.J@nd.edu or http://www.nd. edul-mapple. 
GARRY TRUDEAU
• .JOt"f:SBUit' 

• QuOTE OF THE DAY 
"Istand by all the misstate­ments." 
-Former VP Dan Quayle 

VIEWPOINT
page 8 Tuesday, February 20, 1996 
• lETTERS lG THE fmn:m 
A complete debacle? 
JPW masks real identity ofND life 
Dear Editor: 
The University put on a bril­liant performance this weekend for Junior parents and their lit­tle ehildren. They generated an image of America's leading catholic institution in a way that any marketing major might be proud of. The week­end is supposed to be a cele­bration of the "Notre Dame" family. Parents fly into town and are presented with an image of the University put for­ward by the University. President Malloy, Lou Holtz, and Father Beauchamp beamed smiles at the crowd and delivered their propaganda laden speeches to the ever cheering families. 
The hypocrisy of the entire event is disgusting. From the speeches to the slide show, a picture perfect image of Notre Dame comes off to the University's constituents ­namely those who pay tuition ­without even glancing at the issues which have plagued our stay here. JPW is meant to be a time to reflect on the past and see where we have come. If this had been engaged with even the slightest attempt at thinking about our last two and and a half years, I might have found something worthy of my parents' and my own time. But instead, only a well packaged "we're all so happy" here series of talks dribbled over a P.A. system. 
Malloy's depiction of the Notre Dame family was pure propaganda. Yes, I guess we are all one big, toasty group of young people. But, in our fami­ly we don't want our homosex­ual classmates talking on cam­pus. And in our family, we don't want to address the hor­rendous gender relations between our "brothers" and "sisters" that has been cited over and over again from a 1988 report by the task force on residentiality up through The Observer columnist Chris Kratovil's compelling article on gender relations a couple of weeks ago. And in our family, we don't want to talk about our pathetic homogeneity in which of the 1,901 students who enrolled in the Junior class. only 7 3 were African Americans (NO Fact Book, September 1995). We in the family are also at ease with the rising instances of sexual assault, since, I guess, Jesus forgives all sins. Malloy told my parents that we were one big support group -the NO family, singing the fight song and marching down the path of righteousness. but anyone who has been here for a couple of weeks can see that this simply is not the case. 
Even sadder might be the focus of the events. I attended the "meet your major" recep­tion on Saturday. Talking to one of my professors, a man seriously dedicated to the University, he spoke of his dis­appointment in only visiting with six of his students over the course of the reception. 
Meanwhile, Lou Holtz and his shallow, pop-psychology-go-get them speech received an extended standing ovation. Maybe the University might have had a professor speak about education and social duty at one of the banquets instead of tucking them neatly away on Saturday morning. Yes, my professor might not be famous, but I believe he represents what Notre Dame is about far more than little Lou babbling about how great it is that you don't have to worry about the ACLU pestering you at Notre Dame (God forbid someone defend our freedoms at a University!). 
Finally, the slide show was a disgrace. Over half of the pic­tures could have been labeled "''m so drunk -aren't I funny?" The fact that the pathetic state of the Notre Dame social life, one that fosters gender relation problems through a mix of con­doned alcohol abuse and a paternalistic approach to form­ing associations between the sexes, is celebrated without question makes me nauseous. We are all intelligent people, and social drinking is some­thing that most of us engage in. But the University tacitly allows alcohol abuse in order to cloak their overt paternalism and the general lack of any constructive social avenues at the school. The slide show again reinforced this programming not only on our minds, but on our parents' minds as well. 

What saddens me about JPW is that it could be a time of con­structive analysis of the University. I don't mean that we need to inundate the stu­dents and parents with the short comings of the University, but we could at least talk about them. By harnessing the extended Notre Dame network and by actively engaging stu­dents and parents in the past as well as the future of Notre Dame, we could foster intelli­gent conversation on what is good and what needs improve­ment here. Instead, JPW was simply carefully constructed propaganda which supported the current myths about Notre Dame that are so established that they stifle the hope of con­structive change. 
By engaging in more than image at the major functions of JPW, the University might dis­cuss the tensions that fill our University with both the stu­dents and the parents that pay the tuition. But no, the Notre Dame family would rather rah­rah their way through just another vacuous event that supports the same false myths about the University that are sold to us in recruiting pam­phlets (namely diversity, egali­tarianism, and an intelligent social atmosphere). My parents and I and your parents and you deserve more than contrived images of the University. Maybe those in charge of next year's event will strive to remove some of the propagan­da and replace it with authen­tic, constructive discussion and critical, reflective thinking. 
MIGUEL SANCHEZ Junior Off-Campus 
Absolving sins 
Dear Editor: 

Father Stephen Newton offers a letter to the editor (Feb. 14) "in case anyone was shocked by what was reported" concern­ing a talk of his (Feb. 5). 
Well, Father, I'm not so much shocked as anesthetized by this part of your letter: "Actually, instead of saying that falling short of a moral ideal is not sin ... sin is the human condition, blessed and absolved by God, as in the sacrament of reconcili­ation." 
Whatever happended to the teaching that sin is an offense against God, a violation of His commandments? "Bless me, Father, for I have fallen short of a moral ideal in my human condition." Students. do not try that on you hometown confes­sor. 
JIM CIERZNIAK 
Class of'57 
Ad campaign links fashion with porn 
Dear Editor: 

I quite agree with Beth Higgins's letter of Feb. 14. The Ohsen•er did this university no service by putting the Calvin Klein insert into its paper. Last fall. the public outcry forced the odious fashion designer to withdraw lubricious ads whieh were more than tacitly suggestive of child pornography. As a parent of two young daugh­ters, I not only resent what Klein did, (these kind of ads appear in such magazines as Seventeen where my daughters and their peers see them) but have consistently told them that they will never buy anything from this company. Every time they see Klein's name in print I want them to assoeiate it with words like "pervert" and "pornographer" and "anti-women." My only hope is that more people will make the same semantic connections. Klein has a con­stitutional right to advertise as he sees fit, but there is no reason in the world that I should (or would) support him with my money and little justification for The Obseruer in providing him with a venue for advertising his overpriced wares. 
LAWRENCE CUNNINGHAM 
Protessor 
Theology 
LNO raises funds 
Dear Editor: 

On behalf of the Office of Recreational Sports, I would like to thank all members of the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's com­munity who participated in Late Night Olympics on Friday. February 2. 
With your help, we had a great event, and we were able to raise nearly $4,000 for the St. Joseph County Special Olympics. The money raised has been earmarked for the purchase of new basketball uniforms. 
Thank you once again for your support and interest in what we hope will continue to be a very worthwhile event. 
KARA O'LEARY. 
RecServices Coordinator Office of Recrcarional Sports 
• MAY THE FORCE BE Wmt YflU 
Americans on the go leave their attention spans behind 
The television rating sweeps has taught me so much lately, like tattoos add to Rachel's appeal, Thorn Birds part I is much better than part II, and flip­ping through the best of what networks have to offer, can still produce nothing on TV. But the message clearly is this: America's attention span is dead, gone, kaput! Sorry ABC, NBC and CBS, but your efforts this month only serve as a memorial to our old friend. 
Of course, we all knew that the atten­tion span had been shrinking. Thanks to sociologists, we were warned that TV viewers were steadily falling into the habit of thinking in clumps of ten or fif­teen minutes. But somewhere between thought-clumping, Oprah and second long commercials the attention span became so minuscule that it vanished entirely. 
Wait, what am I writing about? Attention span, that's right. 
Anyway, sociologists generally agree today's official attention span stands at a whole thirty seconds. But with the ever-so-popular TV news sound bite, thirty seconds is an eon. First books seemed too long, now it's the movies. 
Good news, though. Mental regression has been taken into account by today's scriptwriters. No longer do we contend with the old Hollywood approach where we were filled in on the action up to the point where the movie begins. Logical narration just isn't the '90s way. 
Critics hold that Americans have no 

Kara Pavlik 
attention span because we cannot sit still. But this opinion only prevails as long as Americans eat at home. You see, if there's a bright side to any of this it's that most of us can concentrate on "the menu" for longer than five minutes. The down side is that sociologists are rumored to be the only ones able to find the restaurant's door again after a meal is finished. 
But hey, the brains of us Generation X'ers are supposed to what academics call "multivalent" and "polysemous." This means you should be able to put down that Spanish book and learn the information through osmosis, i.e. play a language tape as you sleep. With the tape flowing knowledge into your head, all you need is to do the hokey pokey and shake your head about . If you're not sick in the morning from all the action, amazing things may pop out. 

This may seem like a strange example, but it explains a lot. For example, peo­ple running around campus like chick­ens with their little heads cut off. Understand the majority of them aren't messing with amphetamines, they're just reacting from all the information they absorbed the night before by being their natural polysemous selves. 
And with the attention span already short, the go-go American attitude makes it virtually impossible to concen­trate on anything. So if the average South Bend student has the attention span of a windshield wiper, it may not be completely their own fault. When one jumps on today's bandwagon, dis­tractibility becomes the fault of society. They're the ones who encourage us to leave our body's emotional lights on until our batteries have run dry! 
However, my favorite scapegoat for attention span loss is one of America's newest diseases, Attention Deficit Disorder. And like all democratic dis­eases, it never disr:riminates. Therefore, we may run the gamut of ADD resources, seminars and clinics and not feel embarrassed or ashamed. 
I'm not mocking those who have a dis­ease or serious learning disability. It's just when you hear about third graders selling Ritilan (the medicine used to con­trol ADD) in dass, you've got to wonder if something hasn't gone terribly wrong with our youth. 
American's don't learn how to absorb and integrate new information into their lives because we're not obligated to do. Instead, we increasingly find ourselves identifying with Winston in George Orwell's "1984" who could never shut the "telescreen" off or escape the wrath of the status quo. 
By now my message should now be clear. Please help to revive America's attention span. Think of yourself as a the saving the mind. Turn off the TV, and reach for Trivial Pursuit. 
Kara Pavlik is a senior at Saint Mary's. She can be reached by email: pavl7087@jade.saintmarys. edu 


ACC~NT 

Tuesday, February 20, 1996 
Stick 


'em up

Real Italian Real Fast .. 
Dipping into the breadstick phenomenon 
By KRISTA NANNERY 
An:cnt hli!llr 
N
o matter how much the customers lwg and moan, the Papa .John's pizza people just won't roop1•rate. 
"Look, it's a Saturday night. W1~'ll be there with your bread­sticks in about two hours." 
Tlw roommates look at each otlwr, faces pale and worn. Tlwy'n~ tired, tlwy're hungry and they'n~ all on diets. They knew tlwy'd have to wait, but two hours? Do they have the patienee'! 
Fortunately, tlw Papa .John's delivery man makes it to earn­pus in about an hour. The girls quickly devour their midnight snack: two orders of doughy hreadstieks, accompanied by side ordus of garlic butter, nacho elwese and tomato sauce. 
lr11:reasingly, bmadsticks are becoming the rww appetizer­and sometimes 1wen main meal-of choict~. This is espe­cially true among the college crowd. Ever since the U.S. 33 branch of Papa .John's picked up Saint Mary's College as a part of its route the company has watelwd the number of hmadstiek orders skyrocket. At as little as $2 an order, it's not a bad deal. On average, Papa .John's sends out over 100 hox1~s of 'stieks a night. That n u mlw r wiII oftIHI top 150, nspnrially on Friday and Saturday evenings. That's 800 to I200 brmtdstirks d!~liverml daily to the campus of Saint Mary's alone. 
Papa .John's self-titled "dough-guy" Mike Smith, says, "Bn~adsticks are popular lwcaus1~ they'rn cheap and low fat. Thny're vnry filling, too." Ill~ describes the breadstick­rnaking proeess as relatively simple: rngular pizza dough is stretehed length-wise, then slic1~d. Basically, it's pizza crust without the sauce or eheese. Unless, of eourse, you choose to add that in the form of dipping sauc1~s yourself. 
While Papa John's busily de­livers their hreadstieks to cam­pus, Fazoli's, a franchised fast­food Italian restaurant, sits back and watches customers stream through its doors. Most Fazoli's customers come in just for the breadsticks. The man­agement estimates that each guest entering their es­tablishment has at least four breadstieks before leaving. This is part of an interesting policy: even if a guest orders nothing more than a Diet Coke, a Fazoli's server will eontinuous­ly offer them breadsticks while 
'on a Friday, it's not 
unusual for us to give out more than 5000 breads ticks.' 
Hllen Peirce, Fazoli's 
they're seated, free of eharge. 
"It's our policy that everyone in our restaurant get our breadsticks," says assistant manager Ellen Peirce. She often watehes guests come in, order two breadstieks, then sit down and wait f.,r more to be brought to their table. "On a Friday, it's not unusual for us to give out more than 5000 breadsticks," she adds. To give you an idea just how popular Fazoli's stieks are, during one week last semester, they went through 23,1 0~ of them. 
One thing that makes Fazoli's brnadsticks so popu­lar is garlic butter flavor­ing. It's a secrd recipe that the management is not allowed to disclose. Whatever it is, it .sure is working. People seem to like the butteriness. "Although I'll eat Papa John's 'sticks if someone has ordered t h em , they're too dry. I like them grnasier," says University of Notre Dame senior Mike Himbert. 

Other restaurant ehains jumping on the breadstieks bandwagon include The Olive Garden, Domino's Pizza and Pizza llut. Hostesses at The Olive Garden could only com­ment, "Oh my God! We go through so many breadsticks a day!" As with Fazoli's, every guest that enters The Olive Garden is greeted by free breadsticks. Some people find the 'sticks there so addicting that they won't even allow their server to put them on the table! Free refills provided without asking. 
Although little more than pizza crust and a special sauee-if you're lucky-bread­sticks are turning into the cheese fries and potato skins of the '90s. Will they ever replace shrimp cocktail or caviar? Probably not. But they are quickly replacing pizza as a cheap, low fat and filling mid­night snack. Now if only Papa John's would deliver them within fifteen minutes of your 
phone call ... 

page 9 

Healthy Relationships 
Dear John. 
I'm a girl who can't seem to lind Mr. Right. I'm not unattractive or snobby, but for the longest time, I've had trouble starting a relationship with anyone. The problem is that when I menta guy, I can't seem to progress past the friendship stage. Many of these 
guys become my good buddies, but they just don't seem interested in starting an intimate relationship. My bad luek has left me feeling unattractive and unconlident. Any ideas on how I can improve my relationship status? I know it's vague, but it's been troubling me forever..­Thanks, Just-a-Friend 
Dear .Just-a-Friend, 

First of all, my friend, luek often doesn't have John Galvin a lot to do with relationships. Maybe you're try-Medical Minute ing too hard. A potential person can sense this, Correspondent and it comes otT as needy and consequently unattractive. It sounds to me like you need to start defining your­self for who you are, not who you're with. Taking the time to know yourself, develop your personality and actually like yourself are very key things to do before beginning a fun relationship. You will then approach a new partner with lots to otTer, not lots you need. Good luck and have fun. 
Dear John, 
I have been going with my girl for over a year now. We both love each other and are very cool. We were set-up at my SYH and spent the summer together in New York. She has two years of col­lege left, and I'm graduating this year. The problem is that I'm "in love" with my girl, but in a few months we will be separated. I'm afraid that our separation will prevent us from growing and pro­gressing . Will things end after the emotional airport smooeh? Should I avoid getting too intimate, so I don't get whipped when I eventually have to leave? I want to be a nice-guy, but I just don't want to be played for a fool. -Ain't-No-Fool 
Dear Ain't-No-Fool, 
The idea of carrying on a long-distance relationship and worry­ing about whether or not there is, or might ever be, a commitment sounds incredibly stressful. You need to ascertain questions like: What do you each want out of your relationship? What are you each getting out of the relationship-now, in the past and in the future? What are your needs in a relationship? Are they being met over the long distance? Can they be met over time? Are you hav­ing fun? Think of it as a big experiment-if what you first decide to do isn't working for one or both of you, go back to the drawing board. And then have some fun. 
Dear John, 
I'm a communications major who is trying to cope with shyness. I ha\'e extreme difficulty talking to people-even to people I see and hang-out with everyday. I know making friends takes time and patience, but I seem to be at a loss as to how to develop ac­quaintances too. I've always been anti-social, but I never wanted to be. Who does, right? But I just don't know how not to be. 
I'm studying a profession that requires a lot of personal commu­nication, so it's making me nervous and depressed whenever I can't overcome my introvertedness. But it's not my career that worries me the most. I sense my emotional well-being deteriorat­ing every time I feel myself lost around others. Is there anything I can do to overcome shyness? Thanks.-lsolated 
Dear Isolated, 
You are not alone in feeling shy-although it probably feels that way. Shyness relates to one's exaggerated sense of self. Shy indi­viduals are often absorbed in themselves, and constantly focused on how they a!Teet others and how others feel about them. They worry about themselves and beeome so absorbed in their own dis­comfort and inadequacies that they cannot focus on or feel toward others. This eycle further isolates shy people from the mainstream of warm, giving relationships. Force yourself to talk more, share your feelings and to have some fun. 
Dear John, 
Last semester I went abroad, and, wouldn't you know, I met a guy and fell head-over-heels for him. Having never really had a real boyfriend, Giovanni was like a dream come true. He was very sweet, a perfect gentleman and very romantic. Unfortunately I had to leave him behind, and now here I am back in the U.S., and I miss him a lot and don't know what to do to deal with it. I plan to sec him again this summer but I don't know how to deal with it for now. It's not only the emotion I felt when I was with him, but the "amore" that I miss.-Missing the "Amore" in my life 
Dear Missing the "Amore" in my life, 
•

Experiencing an intimate relationship is great, however, long­distance relationships ean be really hard. Therefore, try to keep yourself busy with schoolwork and creating a social network while you're here. Make platonic friends and develop a support system to help you deal with daily stresses as well as just hanging-out. Write letters, pine away for your boyfriend, and in the meantime, have some fun. 
John Galvin can be reached for questions and ad11ice at: 
John.P.Galvin.3@nd.edu 

-----------------~----------------------------------------------,. 
page 10 The Observer· SPORTS Tuesday, February 20, 1996 
.. • COLlEGE BASKETBAll 
Hoyas deny Huskies' bid for perfect Big East season 
By JIM O'CONNELL 
Associated Press 
LANDOVER, Md. 
Georgetown did things no one had done to Connecticut since November. 
The 11th-ranked Hoy as ended the third-ranked Huskies' 23-game winning streak and chance at a perfect 
Big  East  season  with  a  
devastating  77-65  victory  
Monday night.  

"For the first time a team attacked us and we didn't respond," Connecticut coach Jim Calhoun said. "We ex­pected the challenge from a very good team, thought we could meet it and obviously didn't." 
Georgetown (22-5, 11-4 Big East). which was led by Allen Iverson's 26 points and eight steals. did it the way it used to in the old days -with a suffo­cating defense so good that even Ray Allen had one of his worst games of the season. 
"Allen plays both ends of the court extremely hard," Georgetown coach John Thompson said of the 6-foot Iverson. "He did a good job." 
The Huskies (24-2, 14-1) last lost to Iowa in the semifinals of the season-opening Great Alaska Shootout. Their start matched the best ever in the Big East. St. John's went 14-0 in 1984-85 and Georgetown ended that run as well. 
A 16-1 burst gave the Hoyas a 30-12 lead with 9:43 left in the first half. The Huskies had 12 turnovers at halftime and Allen, second only to Iverson in the league scoring race, was 1-for­9 at halftime with two points. It wasn't just one Georgetown player who stopped Allen. Boubacar Aw, Iverson, Victor Page and Jerry Nichols all cov­ered him. And there was plenty of help. Every time Allen went around a screen, there was another player waiting for him. 
"I think Boubacar and Jerry Nichols did a great job on him. Everybody else did a great job of helping out when he came down on transition," Iverson said of Allen. "We just wanted to come in here and play our style of basketball, and that's real hard defense. Boubacar set the tempo for us." 
Allen finished with 13 points on 5-for-18 shooting. 
"Ray has been played tough before in a lot of games. and great players are going to get played that way," Calhoun said. "Ray had to find a way to get free. He just didn't have a good game. I don't think he had a good game at either end." 
"They just stunned us. They got down on us," Allen said. "I remember they scored one of the first baskets and we just turned around and they were in our faces and took us by sur­prise." 
The Hoyas led 43-31 at half­time and the sellout crowd of 19,035 at USAir Arena had a sense the Huskies weren't done as they had never trailed in the second half during the winning streak. Iverson took care of that quickly. 
He scored the first points of the second half on a dunk where he went down the lane over teammates and opponents alike. He was fouled on the play and Calhoun was forced to call a timeout just 47 seconds into the second half. A 7-0 run that made it 55-36 with 16:09 left had Calhoun calling a second timeout. 

The lead reached 59-39 on a jumper by Aw with 13:53 left, the first time Connecticut had been behind by that many points this season. 
Jerome Williams had 12 points and 10 rebounds for the Hoyas. while Aw and Nichols each had 11 points. 
Connecticut had won the last five games against the Hoyas, including all three last season. 
"I had memories of them beating us three straight games last year. and I didn't want to be able to come home and say, 'I've never gotten a win against UConn,"' Williams said. 
Doron Sheffer led the Huskies with 23 points on 6-of-8 shoot­ing from 3-point range. 
"Maybe I'm going to say too many good things about Doron, but, boy, was he good," Calhoun said. "Iverson had some help tonight. Doron did­n't. He just didn't get any help." 
All but the first and last of the seven baskets of the 16-1 run came off turnovers as Georgetown's pressing, trap­ping defense had the Huskies shook. Iverson had three steals in the run and each led to a field goal. two by him, including a "three-point play, and a break­away dunk by Page. 

The Observer/Mike Norbut Superstar Hoya guard Allen Iverson had 26 points and eight steals last night as Georgetown ended UConn's 23-game winning streak with a 77-65 victory. 
The Observer accepts classifleds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. w 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. 
Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
Classifieds 
NOTICES 
ND/SMC/Holy Cross Students Rm for Sum/Fall '96, 5-min drive I need two tickets for the Seton MARDI GRAS MARDI GRAS when is that thing running anyway? Part-time work. $10.25/start. $250 incl. util & extras! 1-4809 or Hall game on 2/24. I'll be out of town. Flexible hours around classes. All 232-7175 Please call Maureen @ 4-3721! FOOD, FUN AND LOVE 
majors. Scholarships/Internships. is available Friday the 23rd at Dean, What are you going to do, now that CALL 282-2357. BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY I need tickets for MacBeth SUB's MARDI GRAS PARTY! hope it's a good valentine's dance. you (almost) have a NOTRE DAME 219-291-7153 Thursday night. Entertainment for the evening will too bad I don't get another t-shirt. DEGREE? Business opportunity VOLUNTEERS NEEDED Call Rachel 284-4354 be provided by say, I never got the one from two workshop, Thur, Feb 22, 8 PM, for The Early Childhood Development ROOMS FOR RENT IN PRIVATE Will pay cold, hard cash! Luster, Tacklebox years ago! those who QUALIFY. 273-3804 for Center is looking for volunteers who HOME. VERY CLOSE TO ND. and Tweak! details. enjoy young children. If you would IDEAL FOR SMC-ND EVENTS. All for the low cost of $1 in the if you stole my brown doc martens ,
PERSONAL
be interested in spending 2 hours a 272-6194. LaFortune Ballroom! please return them. I know who SPRING BREAK! With only 1 week week reading children's books, you are, mean monkey. I know to live, DON'T BLOW IT! Organize building with blocks and singing HOMES FOR RENT 0o0o0o0o0o0o0o0o0o0o0 MARDIGRAS MARDIGRAS you've got them group-TRAVEL FREE Jamaica or songs with children, please call 232-2595 QUALITY COPIES, QUICKL Yll! Cancun $399 Bahamas $359 Thayer Kramer at THE COPY SHOP Sonic the Hedgefrog wants his cool Nez and Mar face off in four Florida $109 FREE INFO packet. 631-3344 (NO) or Cindy Hestad at LaFortune Student Center gloves back. days...will anything ever be the Call Sunsplash 1-800-426-7710 284-4693 (SMC). Please join our NEED A PLACE FOR THE SUM­Phone 631-COPY same Bad jeans? 
fun filled days. MER? COLLEGE PARK CONDO­0o0o0o0o0o0o0o0o0o0o0 Doin' the bull dance. Feelin' the Spring Break Bahamas Party MINIUMS-SUBLETTING FOR flow. Workin' it, workin' it. Bon-Bon, Cruise! 7 Days $279! Includes 15 BIG EAST TICKETS WANTED MID-MAY THROUGH AUGUST. Dear Brian, I'm glad I've got a friend like you to Meals & 6 Free Parties! Great CALL JEN, NICOLE, OR SARAH Although we can't be together, I am As you can see, my young appren­lean on when I'm rejected, ... ! didn't Beaches/Nightlife! Leaves From Ft. TOP$$$ PAID AT273-1738 thinking of you! Happy Valentine's tice, your friends have failed. Now want to go anyway . Lauderdale! http://www.spring­Day! witness the firepower of this fully Love Always, breaktravel.com 1-800-678-6386 (800)269-5849 Je Tame, armed and operational battle sta­The Alternative lnlellect 
tion. Fire at will, Commander. Cancun & Jamaica Spring Break NATIONAL PARKS HIRING­2 BDR APT @ COLLEGE PARK Fire! Lisa ... smile roomie, you're out of Specials! 111% Lowest Price Positions are now available at FOR RENT FOR THE SUMMER Megs, Lisa, Kathryn, Simone, & Thai blast came from the Death here for some fun in the sun in no Guarantee! 7 Nights Air & Hotel National Parks, Forests & Wildlife ONLY. Julie, Star! That thing's operational! time at all! From $429! Save $100 On Preserves. Excellent benefits + BEST OFFER! (2,3 OR 4 PEOPLE) Have a great V-day. Home One, this is Gold Leader. Food/Drinks! http://www.spring­bonuses! Call: 1-206-971-3620 CALL SARAH OR JILL X2907 I miss you all! We saw it. All craft prepare to Banana ... can we teach our parents breaktravel.com 1-800-678-6386 ext.N55845 Love, Clare retreat. the "Jimmy this weekend? 
You won't get another chance at Spring Break! Panama City! 8 Days TEACH ENGLISH ABROAD -this, Admiral. I crushed your head Monk, and I'm Room With Kitchen $119! Walk to Make up to $25-$45/hr. teaching FOR SALE HOW MANY DAYS TILL WE GET We have no choice, General not scared to do it again. Just wait Best Bars! 7 Nights In Key West basic conversational English OUT OF HERE? Calrissian. Our cruisers can't repel 'till graduation. $259! Cocoa Beach Hilton (Great abroad. Japan, Taiwan, and MacSE/30 firepower ot that magnitude. Beaches-Near Disney) $1691 S.Korea. Many employers provide 100MB HD, 10 RAM AS OF WEDNESDAY, 2/28, I'M Han will have that shield down. "I think a man...feels more like a Daytona $139! http://www.spring­room & board + other benefits. No With Keyboard and Mouse OUTTA HERE. SO ARE YOU. We've got to give him more time. man if he can have a bottle of suds. breaktravel.com. 1-800-678-6386 teaching background or Asian lan­Excellent Condition! $200 WHEN DOES FOOD AND DRINK That's only my opinion, sir. 
guages required. For more informa­Brad x1440 SEASON BEGIN? WE STILL Tim Corbitt is spelled Tim Corbett. tion call: (206)971-3570 ext.J55843 NEED TO FIND A DRIVER FOR But he is cool no matter how you Mr. Stanford contest coming this ILOST & FOUND I JUDAY CREEK gem. WEDNESDAY NIGHTS. ANY VOL­say it. Saturday. Stepan center at 8:00. $Cruise Ships Hiring! Students Well-maintained, 4-bedroom ranch UNTEERS? Tix will be sold at the door. LOST: gold rope chain necklace Needed! $$$+Free Travel with a 17 x 25 home office Do you know anyone who has been 
somewhere on North Quad or by (Caribbean,.Europe, Hawaii!) & 3-car garage. $154,900. FREE FOOD! FREE FOOD! to an obscene amount of dances? "Drink up ladies, before it gets the JACC on either 2/1 0 or 2/11. If SeasonaVPermanent, No Exper. Call Karen 272-3653. Let Accent know. 631-4540 warm." found PLEASE call x1334. Necessary. GDE. 919-929-4398 ext Jazz nile in LaFortune Ballroom 
C1114 1987 Honda Civic Wagon Wed. 2/21 7pm -9pm hey, if that guy would not have Happy Birthday and going away I lost my green, JanSport backpack 4 Wheel Drive, Manual Come listen to the Tuesday Night flashed his lights, we would have hit party Homeless, enjoy your little at Acoustic Cafe last Thursday. WANTED: Transmission, A/C, AM/FM Jazz Band & two combos! the deer. and chore daddy would jaunt off to London. Offering a $10 reward for informa­2 Tickets to MacBeth, any night. $ 2800 or Best Offer Contact: Dancing, Music, & have paid for it. say, pal. did you tion leading to the return of my bag. Call Mike at 4-0959 Shopon Mollah # 631-4573 ever get that girl's car fixed? don't Regis thanks Mrs. Tate for the call. Call Scott x0652 FREE FOOD! FREE FOOD! smoke and drive, silly. 
Thanks for the coffee Janel. 
II II TICKETS
FORRENT NAZVNAZUNAZUNAZUNAZZ pixy pixy pixy stix and youwill 
WANTED 

never know Becky, your CD player was invalu­
L------------1 IRISH CO. B&B REGISTRY NEED: 2 SETON HALL GA TIX. Hey campus bands!!! able. Thank you. CRUISE SHIPS NOW HIRING­Stay at the "MOOSE KRAUSE CALL CHAD 4-2107. Be sure to pick up the application emily, allison, charity, Earn up to $2 ,000+/month working HOUSE'" or other approved homes. for NAZZ, the campus battle of the here's to you and the pink jeans! Hey Maureen, on Cruise Ships or Land-Tour com­Grad. -Football games I DESPARATELY NEED TWO bands, in the S.U.B. office! An I will be praying for you. panies. World travel. Seasonal & 219-277-7003 GA'S FOR SETON HALL CALL application, entry fee and three cora and ash, full-time employment available. No DAN AT3543 song tape is due on February 26th! stop with the trolls, will you? and Lance, Dom, Till, Ali, and Scull­experience necessary. For more MCKINLEY TERRACE & Get moving today! your music is way too loud. Hope the residents of the Inn information call 1-206-971-3550 MISHAWAKA 3 BDRM HOMES. Need Seton Hall GAs x2895 weren't too mad at us. By the way, ext.C55843 AVAIL. NOW.272-6551 NAZVNAZUNAZVNAZVNAZZ 4s BA;s rule!!! how's your ass Lance? 
, •.6 t·~ •t , ~, l , ' , ~ , t 0 • , I 0 t , I 0 I , f , ~ 0 ~, I 0 ~ , I 1 ~ ~ ! 0 ~ £ I, a ~ 1 I 0 I , I , I , I 0 I , ~ , I ' I , J • I 0 I • ~ • ~ 0 i 0 I 0 t .. I,. 1 0 ~ • t • o • ; ' t 
'lucsday, February 20, 1996 The Observer • SPORTS page I I 
• ~AINT MARY'S BASKETBAll out to a quick start by winning 
five out of the six singles
Tennis 
DePauw conquers Howells, Belles 
By CAROLINE BLUM 
Saint Mary's Spuns EJiror 
Senior Barbara Howells may end her basketball earner at Saint Mary's with a losing sea­son this year, but she won't have mueh else to complain about. 
Sunday Howells played, as Coach Marvin Wood detailed, "the best game of her career" against National Tournament hopeful DePauw College. Although the Belles fell to DePauw !HI-5H, Howells was 
almost  perfect with  15 re­ 
bounds,  12  points,  and  7  
blocked shots.  

"Barb played incredible," Wood said. "For her to play that good against such a strong team is a grt~at complinwnt to her. Each time DePauw trit~d to seore slw squattf~d thmn down." 
A humble llowells refused to lake tho crodil, however. 
"I didn't feel great about the game," she said. "You can nnver fnel good about a loss. Coaeh Wood told us that we weren't hitting tlw boards so all I did was concentrate on hilling thmn. But I admit, I was tired." 
After being on the road at Mandwster Thursday night, traveling home for a game against Olivet Saturday. and li­nally to DePauw on Sunday, Barb was not the only one who li)lt fatigued. 
A combination of nine 3­

pointers from their opponents and the loss of starting sopho­more Julie McGill to a twisted ankle contributed to the Belles' 89-76 loss to Manchester. 
However, junior Marianne Banko filled in with 22 points, her career high. 
"Marianne really stepped in and helped us out," Wood said. "She scored in double-figures, was 8-8 from the free-throw line, and made some incredible rebounds." 
Char Albrecht also con­tributed offensively in double ligures as well as defensively as a strong force. 
On Saturday the Belles earned their seventh win of the season against Olivet College, 81-39, with every player seeing at least nine minutes of play. 
"Olivet was the weakest team we had played all year," Wood said. "But I was proud because we executed the entire game. We never backed down just because we had a big lead." 
The Belles displayed the same efforts in their loss against DePauw Sunday. 
"Nicki (McGill) kept saying in the last few minutes of the game, 'let's go, we can do this."' Howells said. "We knew that we would lose, but we didn't give up. We pulled together and stayed a team. And I think that's important." 
A DePauw player hit six 3­pointers in a row in the first half, but after some readjust­ments, the Belles limited hP.r to only two points in the second half. Other problems for the Belles resulted from DePauw's trapping press. The press caused several of Saint Mary's turnovers, giving DePauw sev­eral easy points. 
Only two games remain on the Belles' schedule, Thursday at Aurora and Saturday at home against No. 2 Deliance. 
"For some of us, these games will be our last two ever," Howells said. "We want to end our season on a high note. 

continued from page 16 
They defeated Alabama's No. 3 doubles team of Amanda Ballinger and Jill Breslin. 
Hall, at No. 2 singles, led the way in her singles match, by routing her opponent, Brasington, 6-3, 6-0. At No. 3, Lord, won her first set deci­sively, 6-0, but then her oppo­nent, Breslin, put up a charge. Finally, Lord secured the vic­tory by capturing the second set, 7-5. 
Gowen was the other Irish player, who was victorious in singles, on Saturday. She bat­tled with Barna's Erin Braeuning, and quickly put the match away, 6-0, 6-3. 
"Gowen had an impressive match against Alabama," re­marked Louderback, "She came out quickly, and won convincingly, despite her in­jured knee." 
The Irish suffered three loss­es. Crabtree was handed her second straight loss of the weekend. She was defeated by Alabama's Camino, 6-2, 6-1. At No. 5 singles, Olson, lost to Ballinger, 6-7, 6-1, 6-3. Also suffering her first Joss of the season was Velasco who lost to Dill. 
"My opponent played well," stated Velasco, "I give her lots of credit. She came up with some big shots at crucial times. Basically, she just had a better day." 
"We were in control the whole time," stated Louderback "Because we won the doubles point and because we captured three quick victo­ries in singles." 
After coming out on top on Saturday, the Irish were forced to take on a hot Kentucky team. The No. 37 Wildcats were coming off a huge upset of No. 4 Georgia, the previous week. Notre Dame came away with the victory, handing the Wildcats a 6-3 loss. 
The Irish played the old for­mat for their match. This time they played singles' first, fol­low~d by doubles. They came out quickly, capturing five out of the six singles matches, and were in control for the whole match. 
"Kentucky is a good team," stated Louderback, "We came 

Thursday, February 29th 7:30pm O'Laughlin Auditorium St. Mary's College 
featuring 

"A TOUCH OF CLASS" Bach: Concerto No.2 for Harpsichord in E major, BWV 1053 Haydn: Symphony No. 49 in F minor, "La passione" AND MORE! 


GENERAL ADMISSION $13.00 CALL 219-232-6343 
South Bend Symphony Orchestra Co-sponsored by St. Mary's College Music Dept. 
matches. We got everybody in this match, so that everyone got a chance to play. Basically, we were fired up." 
Crabtree came up with her only victory of the weekend against Kentucky. She de­feated Kentucky's Courtney Roberts, who was forced to re­tire early because of a knee in­jury, 6-1, 1-0. 
Hall also had another impressive showing at the No. 2 singles spot as she quickly dismissed Wildeat's Massoumeh Emami, 6-4, 7-5. Lord came through at No. 3 singles, by beating Kentucky's Kathy Herring, 6-3, 6-2. Velasco defeated Andrea Nathan at No. 4 singles, 6-2. 6­
4. The fifth victory came from Gowen, she downed her Wildcat opponent, Kelly Brown. 6-1. 6-4. 
The only Irish singles player to suffer a loss was Olson, she was beat in straight sets by Kentucky's Christy Sigurski, 6­4, 6-1. 
The team did get swept in the doubles competition. New and old faces were on the court for the Irish doubles team. Olson and Velasco were bumped up to No. 1 doubles and were de­feated in a tight match, 9-8. Playing at No. 2 doubles was senior Meredith Siegfried and freshman Courtney Haskell. Haskell was playing in her first collegiate duel match. They were handed a defeat, 8-6. Sophomore Molly Gavin and sophomore Darci Sweet lost to Kentucky's Brown and Caroline Kirk. 
"This last match for us was tough," stated Louderback, "We had been playing all weekend long. All of the sin­gles played really well. All around the play was pretty solid." 
"Kentucky was a really solid team," stated Velasco, "We played tough and ground it out. In the end, we pulled through." 
Mostly the Irish will be rest­ing this weekend, because they are looking ahead to the National Indoor Tournament this coming weekend in 
Wisconsin. 
Celebrate a friend's birthday with a special Observer ad. 

JPRINtl BREAK 
CANCUN 
7 Night Packages Non-Stop From Indianapolis 
$4)9 

BEACHFRONT HOTELS AVAILABLE OASIS· DAY'S INN· CALINDA • HYATT 
packegea lnc!yde; • Round· Tr1p Non·Stop Au1are ~rom lnd1anapoha • 7 Nights Beachtronl Hotel Accommodatton• 
• 
Round· Trip Atrport to Hotel Tran1lers 

• 
College Toura famous VIP Party Pachga FREE cover charge•. FREE partial, FREE food & drink•. EXCLUSIVE special avant&. OVER $150 in 11v1n al 



LOWEST PRICES • BEST HOTELS • BIGGEST PARTIES 
ORGANIZE A GROUP AND TRAVEL FREE/ 
c~LL COLLEGE TOURS 

,-ooA"' 800-195-4896 
Pnce• per ~r.on, plu1 t..., Public cn.rt." VIa A)la,gro Air Tour e>p.r.tor 11 Funquatl V•callonl O.ta~• 11'1 Op/Par1 Contr.c:t 

< 


like everyone else, sometimes even more so. The added three years of not being in boxing shape tends to weigh just as heavily as a stiff jab or upper­cut. 
But with time quickly advanc­ing towards Sunday's quarter­final bouts, it's too late to start worrying about a ten-pound drop or who the first-round op­ponent will be. The chips just have to fall where they may. 
In the eyes of many specta­tors, wins and losses are inci­dental. The fact that a senior could just get in the ring and compete after three years of watching is enough to make the oldest die-hards stand and 
Irish 

continued from page 16 
coaches know what to expect. 
"They're a really quick team, but they aren't a very good shooting team." stated Poor. 
The Hurricanes are led by sophomore forward Octavia 
• SPORTS BRIEFS 

Jazz Dance: A Jazz Dance class will be offered on Monday and Wednesday from 
6:30 -7:45 in Rockne Rm. 
219. All levels are welcome, but space is limited. You must register in advance at the RecSports office and 'the fee is $30. Open to all ND stu­dents. 
Intercollegiate Bowling: Any students of Saint Mary's or Notre Dame who are inter­ested in collegiate bowling competition, please contact Jason 4·1065. 
Women's Lacrosse: Practice schedule change beginning February 20 and will now be Tuesday and Thursday at 10:15 p.m. Questions? Call Allison at 239-7924. 
Drop-In Volleyball: RecSports will be sponsoring Drop-In Volleyball every Tuesday night this semester. Play will be from 8-11 p.m. in the Joyce Center. Open to all students, faculty and staff. 
Downhill Ski Trip: RecSports will be sponsoring a ski trip to Cannonsburg, Ml on Sunday, February 25. The fee for the trip is $30.00 and it includes lift ticket, ski rental and transportation. The bus departs the library circle at 11 
a.m. and returns at 8 p.m. The registration deadline is Thursday, February 22. 
Volleyball Tournament: RecSports will be sponsoring a Co-Ree Volleyball Tournament on Saturday, March 2, from 10 a.m.-4 p.m. The registration deadline is February 29. Play will take place in the Joyce Center Fieldhouse. 
Blue, who averages over 16 points per game in Big East contests. In her last four games, she has led all Hurricane scorers with a 24 point average. Despite Blue's impressive statistics. the Irish are not intimidated. 
"Her quickness was hard to guard, but we know we can contain her," explained Poor. 
Desma Thomas and Jennifer Jordan round out the list of double digit scorers for the Hurricanes. Jordan also leads the team in rebounding with nearly seven per game. 
The Irish will attempt to con­tain all of Miami's scoring threats. On the other side of the ball, Notre Dame hopes to continue its own impressive of­fensive attack. The Irish had five players who scored in dou­ble figures this weekend against Pittsburgh. 
If Notre Dame plays like they have for the past two weeks, the Irish seniors will finish their last home game with a win. 

The Observer • SPORTS 
Bouts 

continued from page 16 
release form," he said. 

Being of legal age does have more than one advantage. But it didn't mean Mrs. Schmiedeler was going to take to the idea lightly, so Jim thought it would be better to just keep her in the dark. 
"I told my dad about it, but I wasn't going to tell my mom until afterwards," Schmiedeler, a South Bend native, said. "But then I had to go home one weekend and I had gotten a b1ack eye in practice. She found out pretty quick." 
There are plenty of distrac­tions to keep a second semester senior, especially one that has never before been in the ring, away from the boxing gym in the JACC. You can bet, though, that those who do it have the determination. 
And their own private rea­sons. 
"I've wanted to do it since sophomore year," Zahm Hall resident Pat McDonough said. "I figured it would be better for me to do it now rather than have a mid-life crisis." 
Whether you're 21 or '51, however, boxing can be a scary thing. Seniors more than any­one count on the buddy (or buddies) system to get them through the daily grind. 
"A big reason for me doing it was the roommate thing," said Charlie Algier, a fellow Stanford Hall resident with Schmiedeler. "It helps out a lot too, to work with a friend. You don't want to go beating on someone you don't know." 
But the door can swing both ways. Not having any previous experience against other boxers may give someone false confi­dence, making him think he can take on even the best of boxers right off the bat. 
"The first time I sparred. I fought (returning champion) John Christoforetti," McDonough said. "He kicked my butt pretty good. It's good, though, because I knew I was going to get hit. I wouldn't want to go up against someone who wasn't going to beat on me." 
Unless they're boxing prodi­
gies kept under wraps for three 
years, seniors take their lumps 


STUDY ­ABROAD 

Semester, Summer and Year Programs 
Ecuador • Spain England • France Canada • Mexico Chile • Italy 

rN·Az·z·i 
~ 1~6~ 
I ."BATTLE OF :t"HE BANDS" I 
I r·i4A!t&f.Sat·'U"*·'U·Ft1·Wfi·HM·''·i4, 1
I -DUE MONDAY FEB. 26 -I 
I I
NAZZ 1996 WILLTAKE:PLACE:MARCH 21. ANY CAMPUS BAND IS INVITED TO PARTICIPATE
I APPLICATIONS ARE AVAILABLE AT S.U.B. • 
~.......•..........~ 
------------. 
Tuesday, February 20, 1996 
cheer. 

And if all else fails, they'll at least hang up the gloves in their best physical condition. 
"I like the boxing workout," Schmiedeler said. "Never again will I eat healthier and be able to exercise for two hours a day. six days a week." 
In six short weeks, the se­niors have already picked up the intangibles they need to make them total boxers. The true physical test will be in the ring. 
"I just hope I don't get knocked out," 140-pound hope­ful Joe Leslie said. "Guys that light don't usually get floored by one punch, do they?" 
THE WORLD IS HUNGRY FORYOUR HELP 

FILM AND INFORMAnON SEMINARS 
Wednesday, February 21 6:00p.m. Center for Social Concerns 
& 

Tuesday, February 20 7:00p.m. StMary's Haggar Parlor 
For more information call800-424-8580 (+ 1). Find us on the web at http://peacecorps.gov 
·~· 

.E. PEACE CORPS The toughest job you'll ever love. 
Volunteers must b~ U.S. citizt!ns and meet other qualifications. The term uf ~rvice is twu years. The mini­mum age is 18, but there is nu upper agt! limit. react! Corps dues nul discriminate un the basis uf race, sex, religion, age (over40), ut sexual orientatiun. All Peace Curp:> pmgrams an~ administered una mm-discrimi­natory basis. 

Tuesday, February 20, 1996 The Observer • SPORTS page 13 
• TRACK • BASECAl!. 
Men finish third in Big East Tourney 
By BRIAN REINTHALER 
Sports Writer 
This past weekend, the Notre Dame track and lit~ld team com­ptlted in their inaugural Big East Championship meet. The men's team earnnd the immedi­ate respect of their new confer­once rivals by claiming third place overall in the meet. The women, despite some promising performances, wern only able to achieve eleventh place at the contest. 
The men's squad was paced by three first place finishes, two in running events and one in the field events. Sophomore Jason Hexing won the 5000 meter run in a time of 14:17.99, followed by teammate Matt Althoff who finished fifth in 14:32.90. In the 1000 meter run, senior Jeff Hojnacki was victorious for the second time this season as he crossed the finish line in a time of 2:27.39. .Junior Pat Gorman finishnd eighth in the event. 
The field was the site of the most significant Irish highlight of the weekend. Senior Mike Fleisch broke the Big East Championships record in the shot put with a throw of 59­
6.25. llis effort once again met NCAA provisional qualifying standards. 
Sophomore Errol Williams and senior Derek Seiling also turned in impressive perfor­mances on the track. Williams placed in two events, the 55 meter hurdles and the 200 meter dash. lie took fifth in the hurdles with a time of 7.45 and eighth in the 200 in 22.65. Seiling placPd sixth in the 3000, finishing in 8:27.19 and anchored the team's distance mndley relay with a 4:06 mile. 
Hojnacki, who was teamed with Seiling in the distance medley, gave his teammate 
The Finance Club 
Presents: 
The 32nd Annual Finance Forutn 
The IPO 
AN IN-DEPTH LOOK AT INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS FROM DIFFERENT STANDPOINTS. 
TONIGHT! 
•Mr. Jeffery Boetticher 
CEO and President 
•Mr. Thomas Grieg 
Managing Partner 
Donaldson, Lufkin & Jenrette 

Tuesday, Feb. 20, 7:ooPM, Jordan Auditorium • 
ts To Follow• 
strong praise for his perfor­mance. "Pat Gorman and I were tired coming off of the 1000 meter trials," said Hojnacki, "and Derek really car­ried us on his back." 
There were also a few other notable accomplishments in the field events. Senior Lamarr Justice met NCAA provisional qualifying standards again, as he turned in a second place leap of 51-2.25. Irish pole vaulters contributed quality points to the team effort with second and third place finishes. Junior David Gerrity jumped 16-2.75 to take second and freshman Mike Brown rounded up third place honors with an identical height. 
Top women's performances were found predominantly in the relays. The 4x800 meter team captured second with a time of 9:05.56, while the 4x400 group came in fourth in 3:47.85 and the distance medley relay finished fifth in 11:56.07. 
The top individual results were turned in by sophomore Berit Junker, junior Alison Howard, and senior Erica Peterson. Junker led the women with a 1:13.19 time in the 500 meter dash. Her time was good enough for second place in the event. Howard fin­ished sixth in the 400 with a dash of 56.83 and Peterson competed well in the 800, fin­ishing seventh in 2:15.31. 
When asked about the men's third place finish, Hojnacki said, "We finished higher than I thought we would. We were missing a few key sprinters and some distance runners were out due to injury. Everybody who made the trip competed well." 
Fleisch added, "Georgetown and Connecticut were extremely impressive, but hopefully we will be able to challenge them in the outdoor season." 
Irish stun 
By DYLAN BARMMER 
Sports Writer 

The wake-up call has been administered. 
The Notre Dame baseball team was welcomed into the 1996 season by an ever-so-ac­commodating Georgia Tech team. 
The host Yellow Jackets stung the Irish pitching staff for 21 runs ofT 26 hits in the two game series, pounding out convincing wins of 12-4 on Saturday after­noon and 9-4 in Sunday's game. 
Leading the welcoming com­mittee for the No. 16 Tech squad were freshman shortstop Jay Hood, who said hello to the Irish with a 6-8, three homerun, six RBI performance, and junior third baseman Michael Sorrow, who brought the Irish nothing but sorrow with his 5-10, five RBI performance on the week­end. 
But the Irish aren't about to lose perspective on the impor­tance of this weekend, looking instead to the positives which can be gleaned from the first two games of a nearly sixty game season. 
"There's a lot of adjustments to be made going from indoors {Loftus) to outdoors," com­mented head coach Paul Mainieri. "And when you're playing a team the caliber of Georgia Tech, t.?ere is very little room for error. 
The Irish pitching statT found this out the hard way, as nine different pitchers surrendered 18 earned runs to an angry swarm of Yellow Jackets. Tech hitters appeared to find therapy in the green Irish statT, using the weekend to vent the frustrations which an 0-5 start had caused. 
"It didn't work out as well as I'd hoped on the mound," com­mented Mainieri. "None of our pitchers were able to shut them out for more than an inning. I don't think we pitched that well at all." 
•

In season opener 
The Observer/Brian Hardy Darin Schmalz and the rest of the Irish hurlers were roughed up for 18 earned runs against Georgia Tech last weekend. 
The pitching turned sour from the beginning, as staff ace Craig Allen surrendered four runs, two of which were earned, in the first inning of Saturday's game. Three more runs, this time off sophomore Christian Parker in the third inning, put the Irish in an insurmountable 7-1 hole. 
Bad luck on the mound struck once again in the second game, most notably in the seventh inning, when, with the Irish trailing 5-3, Wally Widelski sur­rendered a three-run, two-out homerun to Hood to put the game out of reach at 8-3. 
Just as pitching plagued the Irish over the weekend, frus­tration also set in at the plate, where the Irish went down swinging 22 times, part of the reason why Notre Dame strand­ed 15 runners in the two game stretch. The most exciting moment for the Irish at the plate came in the ninth inning of Saturday's game, when catcher Bob Lisanti, starting his first game in over a year, launched a two-run homerun off Tech reliever Carlos Cason. 
"We were able to get about four runs and ten hits in each game, but we really didn't hit the ball like we could've be­cause we struck out too much," said Mainieri. 
DOYOUWANTTO....,_AieD I ...OVIIl 
................ACIIWIIMIIIIII NOW ACCEPTING APPLICATIONS FOR 

•This 
position 15 basically a precursor for the 1997-98 Student Body Treasurer. 

•
Any Sophomore in the Business CoUeee who has completed an introductory Accountin& course is eli&ible. 

•Applications 
are available in the Student Body Treasurer's omce (Inside Student Government on the 2nd floor of LaFortune) between 8a.m. and 4p.m. Monday • Friday. 

• Applications are due by Friday, 
February 23rd. 


The greatest display of early­season hitting jitters by the Irish came in Sunday's game, a game which saw the Irish jump out to a 2-0 lead, knocking starter Shane McGill out of the game after just three innings. But David Elder was able to come in and shut the door on the Irish. 
"Elder came in and got us be­having very defensively at the plate," commented Mainieri. "We struck out too much. 
One aspect of his team's game which Mainieri was pleased with was fielding, as the Irish committed just four errors on the weekend which was no small feat considering they are coming otT several months spent on the artificial surface of Loftus. 
"I think that the only phase of our game we played up to our potential in was the defensive aspect," said Mainieri. "We made some great defensive plays out there. 
"We were able to get the sea­son underway -we went outside and played one of the top teams in the country," mused Mainieri. "It showed us the level of play we want to get to, and we can get there. I don't think we played up to our capabilities. I think we're going to get better, and I think we'll play much bet­ter next weekend." 

-------------~--~-----­
t 
page 14 The Observer • SPORTS Tuesday, February 20, 1996 


I 
I Injured Ling leaves Notre Dame on thin ice 
I 
' I Irish set to face
I I MSU in final 
l showdown 
' 
I 
By MIKE DAY Sports Writer 

Unless the ice on which they play on was to suddenly evapo­rate, life couldn't get much worse for the Notre Dame hockey team. 
The 8-21-3 Irish currently find themselves out of a playoff position, one point behind Alaska Fairbanks for eighth 
place in the CCHA. Leading scorer and team leader Jaimie Ling is finished for the season after breaking his ankle in Friday night's 5-2 loss to Michigan. 
And oh, by the way, first place Michigan State heads into town tonight for their third and final game of the season against the Irish. 
"We know that we're in a tough position with Ling out and the schedule ahead of us," said junior center Terry Lorenz. "We're going to have to take it upon ourselves to pick up the slack and get into 


Junior center Terry Lorenz says he knows the Irish are in a tough posi­tion and will need to pick up the slack if Notre Dame is to reach the playoffs. 
Bare ntials 
' ··--for 5prtng 81... ­
w..-......._. 

. \¥iJ~B/f'i«'•WN·M:'";.«· ....... 
l!t_Jit~ 

AI l'fllll1rc::uts Jnct.ldl Itt_,.,., 
cordllora _.'*"*".... 
815-W~ Mc:K1N1u CAcro.s from y.,.. & Cowdru) 
257-8266 
the playoffs." 

Michigan State, 26-8, includ­ing a 22-5 league mark, has been as tough on both sides of the puck as any team in the nation. The Spartans limit op­ponents to a mere 2.81 goals per contest while scoring over fours goals a game at the of­fensive end. 
"They take advantage of any­thing you give them, so you have can't afford to have a lot of mental breakdowns," said Irish head coach Dave Poulin. "They have a strong front line and a good goaltender (Chad Alban). They really make you work hard at both ends." 
In contrast to Notre Dame, the Spartan offense is capable of exploding at any moment of the game. Led by the electrify­ing trio of Anson Carter (40 points), Mike York (34). and Mike Watt (34), MSU had won 11 of 12 games prior to Saturday's loss to Michigan. 
The Irish defense hopes to continue to reap the benefits of defenseman Davide Dal Grande's return to the lineup af~er missing 15 games with an injury. 
For the most part, the unit held two of the country's top offenses, Michigan and Western Michigan, in check over the past week. 
Sophomore goaltender Matt Eisler (4.30 Goals Against Average), along with defense­men Jeremy Coe, Ben Nelsen, Garry Gruber, and Brain McCarthy, have performed well of late but have little to show for their efforts against two of the nation's most talent­ed squads. 
"It's frustrating because we know that we're capable of 

. 

The Observer/Brian Hardy Netminder Matt Eisler has been playing well recently, but will need more offensive support tonight if the Irish hope to defeat Michigan State. 
beating Western Michigan and recognize the challenge that Michigan," said Nelsen. "The awaits them. score doesn't indicate how "We know that it's going to we've played. We can play be tough with him out of the with anybody if we play our lineup," said Lorenz. "We've type of game." kept a positive attitude 
Offensively, Notre Dame will through it all and know what have to find a way to compen­we have to do to be successful. sate for Ling's team leading 12 It's just a matter of going out goals and 19 assists. and accepting the challenge." Freshman right wing (24 Unless there is a sudden points), Lorenz (15), and junior evaporation. that challenge right wing Tim Harberts (22) begins tonight. 
Senior ND Premed Students 
•Interested in exploring primary care medicine and health ministryt 
•Desire to serve a medically indigent community in a Christian settingt 
•Willing to defer medical school matriculation for one yeart APPLY Now FOR THE 
Thomas Dooley Service Award Project 
A year-long service project at St. Joseph's Health Center in South Bend sponsored by the ND Alumni Club of St. Joseph's Valley. Recipients receive a considerable stipend to cover room and board, and medical care through the St. Joseph's Health Center. 
Applications are available now at the Center for Social Concerns! APLICATION DEADLINE -MARCH 18 
for further information, please contact: 
Valerie Soledad 
1995/96 Dooley Recipient St. Joseph's Health center 289-7662 
Maureen Skurski 

Center for Social Concerns 631-5779 

Tuesday, February 20, 1996 The Observer • TODAY page 15 


DILBERT 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
FOUR FOOD GROUPS OF THE APOCALYPSE 

r---------------------~ur-------~--------------~ 
~
THEY 
~ 
SIX CENTS 
~ 
lu 
THERE'S NO RISK! 
"' 

DAVE KELLETT YOUR HOROSCOPE JEANE DIXON 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY! IN THE NEXT YEAR OF YOUR LIFE: You draw closer to fulfilling a long­held. ambition. Family members give you their full support. Count on receiving help when you need it most. Your gift for self-expression is a powerful asset and could lead to a career in the public eye. Ask friends for constructive suggestions. You make a very persuasive spokesperson for causes dear to your heart! A hasty decision involving romance or marriage could prove costly. Slow down. 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: actor Sidney Poi tier, fashion designer Gloria Vanderbilt, singer Nancy Wilson, auto racing great Bobby Unser. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): The emphasis now is on completing projects already underway. Career success depends on your ability to keep secrets. An impatient attitude could throw a monkey wrench into achieving your goals. 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Trust your first impressions; they are seldom wrong. Productivity rises when you delegate more responsi­bility. Practice small economies. You need to study the job market if thinking of changing careers. 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Greater success depends on team effort. Do not discuss your financial or personal affairs with co-workers. Make allowances for someone who has emotional problems. 
CANCER (June 21-July 22):
SCOTT ADAMS 
You gain a competitive edge when you team up with successful people. 
Spruce up your appearance by giv­
ELBONIA 

ing your wardrobe an overhaul. Joining a professional or social organization will help your career. 
TOt"\ORROW, 

LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Watch out for the "morning grouchies." Research and literary projects are in 
'fOU BE TI-lE 
• OF INTEREST 

"International Comparison of Prices, Output, and Productivity" is a seminar given today by D.S. Prasada Rao of the Economics Department and University of New England, Armidale, Australia. The seminar will be held in the C-103 Hesbugh Center for International Studies at 12:30 p.m. 


46 Tree of the olive 52 Pre-stereo family sound 47 Nut tree 53 34-Down's -­
photographers
48 Research funds Sea 49 Family V.I.P. 54 Trebek of "Jeopardy!" 
and editors.
50 Lined up 

55 Rajah's mate Carthage, in 56 Small myth amphibians 
51 Queen of 

Join The Observer 
Get answers to any three clues by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420­
staff. 
5656 (75¢ each minute). 
the spotlight. Buy books for your home library. Key relationships will improve when you speak from the heart. 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Although the coast seems clear, you need to stay alert. Stormy conditions could jeopardize a valuable alliance. Ask direct questions if hoping to get at the root of an estrangement. 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): As a diplomat, you have few peers. Make a special attempt to nurture family relationships. Learn to be more adaptable at work and home. An occasional compromise will work miracles! 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Becoming overly attached to material possessions will hurt you in the long run. Remember: Spiritual values count most! Look within for guid­ance; you are your own best adviser. 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21 ): Your high spirits and good humor are a big plus in the social arena. Romance thrives. Seek coun­seling if still troubled by something that happened a long time ago. Peace of mind will follow. 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Discretion keeps you from say­ing or doing things you could regret later on. Be prepared to adjust your schedule to handle a rush job. High­er-ups admire your ability to per­form when under pressure. 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): 
A brainstorming session with a close 
friend will deepen your rapport. 
Making a phone call could rekindle 
a plan you deemed hopeless. Bold 
ideas galvanize you into action. 
Romance looks wonderful. 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): A 
direct approach and a specific pro­
posal will bring new clients or rev­
enue. Public entertainment provides 
you with an opportunity to meet 
someone eligible. 

The Observer 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompany­ing form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to:  The Observer  
and mail to:  P.O. BoxQ  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  
D Enclosed is $70 for one academic year  
D  Enclosed is $40 for one semester  

Name __________________________________________ __ Address _______________________________________ City--------State ____ Zip______ 
57 Mesa's location: Abbr. 58 Holy scroll 59 Norwegian saint 60 Methodology 61 Crazy 62 Split 63 One the Army wants 64 Indianapolis team 65 letters from Xanthippe 
DOWN 
1 King Kong's kin 2 Numbskull llndian ox 4 1975 gangster 
movie 5 Onetime airline 6 Country music's 
Holly 7 Earth goddess a Locale for clam diggers 

"Land Without Bread/Hunger in America/100 NY. NY" and "Blow Up" will be playing at 7 and 9 p.m. re­spectively tonight in the cinema at the Snite. The cost is $2. 
Right to life meeting tonight at 1:!:00 p.m. in the Montgomery Theater. All are weleome! 
•MENU  
Notre Dame  
North  South  
Turbot Almondine  Garden Quiche  
Beef Bourguignon  RatatouilJe Spaghetti  
Home-Style  Rice Pilaf  
Chicken Sandwich  
Saint Mary's  
Call for information  

Wanted: Reporters, 
98rowse (through) 10 Maitre d's offering 11 Seed covering 12 Paper money 14 Striking scene 21 Hollywood, with "the" 22 Arterial trunk 25 Rain clearer 26 Equine-related 27 Get hitched in a hurry 
28 Gaiters 29 Brewer's n~ed 30 Munch noisily 31 One of the 
Amazes 32 Signed on the 
dotted line 34 The East 37 "La classe de 
danse" artist 38 Croatia's sea 39 Moth repellent 45 Stockpiles 

CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 
1 Timber-dressing tool 4 Spy secrets 9 Federal Investigator 13 Maya Angelou, e.g. 15 Sky-colored 16 Conquering 
11 Isle of exile 18 Washington Zoo animal 19 The "U" in 
B.T.U 20 Obstinate 23 Nexus 24 Play ---with 
(do mischief to) 25 Old joke 
28 Restaurateur Toots 30 Second-century date 33 City in SE Kansas 34 To the left, to a sailor 35 Vandal 36 Conceited 40 Remote viewing 41 Improves, as text 42 Gallic girlfriend 43 Toast order 44Mardi-­45 Slept under the stars 47"8ali--" 48 [I am shocked!] 49 Nuts 
SPORTS 
page 16 Tuesday, February 20, 1996 

Irish picking up steam with weekend sweep 
By KATHLEEN LOPEZ 
Sports Writer 
Three wins in four days, is an accomplishment. The women's tennis team can boast exactly that. 
The Irish defeated the No. 9 Tennessee Volunteers on Thursday. Then this weekend the team followed it up with a victory over the Crimson Tide of Alabama on Saturday. The very next day, the team dis­missed the Kentucky Wildcats. 
"We knew that Alabama was a tough team," stated freshman Marisa Velasco, "The singles matches were going to be tough so the key was to win the doubles point." 
On Saturday, the team faced a tough Alabama team. The match was close the whole way through, but in the singles competition the Irish clinched it, 4-3. The key to the match was the doubles competition according to head coach, Jay Louderback. 
"The doubles point was the key to the victory because we split the singles and we needed it to claim the match," stated Louderback. 
The Irish swept all of the doubles matches. Seniors Wendy Crabtree and Holyn Lord defeated Alabama's Cantillon Brasington and Allison Eager, 8-5. Following their teammates' lead, junior Erin Gowen and freshman Jennifer Hall came out victori­ous in their close match with the Tide's Whitney Dill and Baili Camino, 9-7. Also coming out on top in their close match was sophomore Kelley Olson and Velasco, who won 9-7. 
see TENNIS I page I 1 


'Last Chance' 
First-year senior boxers take advantage of final Bengal Bouts opportunity 

Blowing away the opposition 
Irish look to continue dominating trend in last home game of season 
By TODD FITZPATRICK Sports Writer 
Home sweet home. 
The Notre Dame women's basketball team has cherished this motto all season, only dropping one game at the Joyce Center. Now Irish seniors have only one more opportunity to compete on their home court. They will play the last regular season home game of their college careers tonight against Miami, which enters this contest with a 13-11 record. 
Under different circumstances, Notre Dame may have looked past this game because of this week­end's nationally televised contest with Big East Conference leader and defending national champi­on Connecticut. Senior co-captain Carey Poor explained that this game is different. 
"I don't think anyone is looking past this game, especially because it is the last home game," com­mented Poor. 
The 18-5 Irish will try to continue one of its best winning streaks of the season. They have handily defeated Pittsburgh twice, along with triumphs over Georgetown and Villanova in their last four games. Because of their recent success. the Irish plan to make few adjustments heading into tonight's contest. 
"We're happy with the way we are playing. We're playing really well right now," Poor said. In their first match-up of the season, Notre Dame defeated Miami 6 7-50. So Irish players and 
see IRISH I page 12 
• Hockey faces Michigan State tonight 
see page 14 
• Baseball opens season with two losses 
see page 13 
• Belles fall despite Howells' effort 
see page 11 
By MIKE NORBUT SportS Editor 

Jim Schmiedeler's mom was never supposed to know. 
The senior desperately wanted to take part in the Bengal Bouts during his first three years on campus. But one thing or another always 
• 

seemed to get in his way. This year, however, things fell into place, and Schmiedeler got his chance to box. 
"The main thing that allowed me to do it this year was I got to sign my own 
see BOUTS I page 12 
Basketball 
vs. Providence Feb. 21, 7:30 p.m. 
Women's Basketball 
vs. Miami Feb. 20, 7 p.m. 
Hockey 
vs. Michigan State Feb. 20, 7 p.m. 
SPO 

at a 
GLANCE 
The Observer/Brian Hardy 
Above: Joe Leslie takes a breather during a spar­ring match Monday. Below, left: Jim Schmiedeler (left) tries to avoid a Charlie Algier jab during a Bengal Bouts workout. 
Track 
Alex Wilson Invite Feb. 23-24 
Men's and Women's Tennis 
at National Indoors Feb. 22-25 
SMC Sports 
Basketball ar Aurora Feb. 22, 7 p.m. Swimming at Liberal Arts Invite Feb. 22-24 




