
Tuesday, October 29, 1996 • Vol. XXX No. 41 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
• CAMPus l!FE Com~cn. 
Divided CLC vote defeats NDLGS resolution 
By MATTHEW LOUGHRAN Assistant News Editor 
In a divided vote that CLC Student Senate Representative Shane Bigelow said "may signal possible problems for the future." the Campus Life Council defeated a resolution regarding the University group Notre Dame Lesbian and Gay Students (NDLGS). 
"I noticed that there is a defi­nite split in the vote between the students who voted for the resolution and everyone above 22 years old that voted against it," Bigelow elaborated. 
Seven of the eight student representatives present voted for the resolution, while six fac­ulty and staff representatives voted against and two abstained. The split tally ulti­mately fell short of the two­thirds majority needed. 
The defeated resolution had called for Vice President of Student Affairs Patricia O'Hara to present a report every semester on the group's progress including an assess­ment by the Standing Committee, created in O'Hara's response to last spring's AdHoc Committee report. 
Many representatives ques­tioned the logic of asking Professor O'Hara to assess a group which she created. 
"When you put together a group, it doesn't make much sense to ask you to be the one that makes an objective judge­ment as to its progress," said Ava Preacher, associate dean of the College of Arts and Letters and CLC faculty representative. 

Gentlemen, start your engin-es 
Automotive engineers raced into their first competitive season 
By MARILYN ALIOTO News Writer 
The Notre Dame Society of Automotive Engineers (SAE), under Dr. Michael Stanisic. completed its first mini baja­vehide competition in Milwaukee this past summer. Although the nationwide event is three years old, this summer marked the first entry by a University team. 
Notre Dame finished 54th out of 65 teams in the overall event, but received a tenth place finish in the accelerated event. Competition included both stand­by rivals like University of Michigan and Florida State, as well as more exotic teams arriving from countries as far as Brazil. 
The competition challenged teams to construct the smallest, functional, one passenger, ofT-road vehicle within a list of guidelines. The final design was actually one of five original projects the automotive engineers produced, ace­cording to team member Renato Dell'Osso. 
Students are involved in every aspect of development from the concept and design to the actual manufacturing, repairing, and driving of the vehicle. 
Obtaining funds was a similar group responsibility. "The Chrysler 
' 

Council debate centered around the necessity of such a report and the importance of the Standing Committee in both assessing the progress of NDLGS and making that assess­ment public. 
"The Standing Committee and their dialogue are the key issues here," asserted Sister Mary Jane Griffin, Howard Hall's rector. "They are really the most important group to pay attention to." 
"This debate is really good," offered Ryan Mcinerney, judi­cial coordinator of the CLC and sponsor of the resolution. "but it takes away from the original intent which was simply to pro­vide Professor O'Hara with a: time frame for the report that she said she would eventually give." 
A friendly amendment to Mcinerney's resolution pro­posed moments before the vote changed its purpose from solely providing a time frame to ask­ing for a specific report from 
see VOTE I page 4 


specifications for last summer's race. 
Corporation and local SAE divisions are two main sponsors for the event," Dell'Osso said. 
Although the start up cost is about seven thousand dollars for materials and labor expenses, it usually decreases after the first year because many parts are reusable. "The project is recycled every two years and the team is already beginning to work on the car for next year," Dell'Osso said. 
The group works throughout the school year preparing and testing the new vehicle for the summer's race. 
"We learned a lot this year," said 
team member Chad Brandengurg (SAE). "It is a tremendous first-hand learning experience." 
SAE currently has fifty members, most of whom are mechanical engineers, although membership is open to all con­centrations. "It is a great opportunity to get to know your major," Brandenburg added. 
This summer's race will be held in Dayton, Ohio. Those interested in becoming members of the Notre Dame team are encouraged to call Renato Dell'Osso at 634-1758. 

Congressman anticipates campus speech 
By LORI ALLEN Saint Mary's News Editor 
Congressman Tim Roemer of Indiana's Third District will speak tonight at Saint Mary's College in Carroll Auditorium at 6 p.m. 
Roemer, who obtained his Masters and PhD in International Relations from the University of Notre Dame, will speak on his experiences in politics and how they have influ­


enced him to run for office. The former professor who taught at American University is look­ing forward to the speech. 
''I'm very excited about the chance to talk to the students of Saint Mary's College and the University of Notre Dame. Young people in college today are our nation's best and brightest as we move into the 21st century," said Roemer. "I often get my best feed­back from students." 
The event is being sponsored by the Student Academic Council who have arraigned a question-and-answer series immediately following Roemer's speech. 
"Roemer will not be campaigning or 
see ROEMER I page 4 



Maynooth program mixes students with true Irish 
Editor's note: This is the first in a three-part series focusing on Saint Mary's and Notre Dame students studying in Ireland. Funding for Caroline Blum's trip to Ireland was pro­vided by the Saint Mary's Board ofGovernance. 
By CAROLINE BLUM Saint Mary's Editor 
MAYNOOTH, Ireland 

In 1977. Peggy McCarthy was teaching English at St. Patrick's College in Maynooth, Ireland, when she received a phone call from Saint Mary's College. 
The caller asked if McCarthy would oversee a program that would allow Saint Mary's and Notre Dame students to study at St. Patrick's for a year. With the nearly ideal background of being a Saint Mary's alumna and Irish native, McCarthy anxiously agreed. 
"My parents sent me to Saint Mary's in America because they were afraid my brother was losing his faith," she remembered. "But I enjoyed my time at the College, which was why I was excited to start a program with Saint Mary's that would bring students over to Ireland." 
Nineteen years later, McCarthy still works as the advisor for the Ireland Program. 
Each year, she helps the 25 students selected from Notre Dame and Saint. Mary's to adapt to a new lifestyle _in Maynooth. 
"The whole essence of this program is for students to experience Irish student life," McCarthy said. "They take the classes with Irish students, and are encouraged to join the col­lege's societies and clubs." 

St. Patrick's College, often referred to as Maynooth College, was founded in 1795 when the British king allowed its construction as the Emerald Isle's first Catholic college. Located just 14 miles west of Dublin, the institution evolved into one of the world's largest seminaries, and in 1910 it was recognized as the-National University of Ireland. 
Today, St. Patrick's boasts 

over 100 faculty members and more than 4,000 students. 
This year, 16 Saint Mary's students and nine Notre Dame students are taking advantage of the program. 
Although designed for sopho­mores, five of the participants are juniors. Regardless of their class, all students live in five­bedroom apartment flats with Irish students as well as Americans. 
Notre Dame students Nick Becker and Mike Boland, the only males on the program, live with three Irish students and feel the experience has given them a world of opportunities. 
"Living with people different than the typical Notre Dame student has done a lot for me," Boland said. "It's fun to see the different ways in which people live and view the world. That's an experience I never could've got at Notre Dame." 
One of Boland's close friends also studies in Ireland, but is one of five independent Notre Dame students studying at the nearby Trinity University. 
This puts Boland in a favor­able position to compare the two approaches to Irish stud­ies. 
''I'm so glad I came to Maynooth instead," Boland said. "This program allows us to make friends with the Irish students and to travel. At Trinity, students are so struc­tured that they never really get to experience all of the won­ders of Ireland." 
But because Maynooth's studies are conducted in years rather than semesters, the pro-
see IRELAND I page 4 


page 2 The Observer • INSIDE Tuesday, October 29, 1996 
• INSIDE COLUMN 

Weare NOT dating! 
There have been numerous campus issues addressed so far this semester. among them toilet flushing. fan apathy, and drinking-in all its forms. But there is anoth­er that was recently brought to my attention 

yet again: dating. 
Dan Cichalski
There are people who say dating does not hap-Assistanr Accenr Editor pen at Notre Dame. Then there are others who say either you're single, or you're practi­cally, if not literally, engaged. There is no middle ground. The problem here is just the opposite of the one in that "Seinfeld" episode. Jerry kept get­ting upset because a guy would ask Elaine out without even considering that Jerry and Elaine might be dating because they were together at the sandwich shop. A couple of the opposite sex cannot walk across this campus or sit in a dining hall with­out other students in the vicinity assuming that they are "together." More likely, they are simply enjoying lunch or a conversation with one another. It does not mean that they can only have lunch or a conversation with that one person of the opposite sex. Just because a couple dines together does not mean that neither party may dine with anyone else. Consider this scenario: While waiting for some friends in the lobby of Washington Hall after "Barefoot in the Park," my play-going partner (whom we will call "Jen" to protect her anonymity} said hello to someone she knew. lie said hello back, saw me, then low­ered his eyes and said good-bye as he ran for the door. "We forgot to bring our signs that say 'NOT DATING,"' said "Jen." Even my mother has trouble with the con­cept of a platonic male/female relationship. After I told her that "Jen" and I were nothing more than friends, she still thought, five months later, that we were dating. And every time I mention a woman's name that's new to her, Mom asks, "What happened to [insert most recent woman's name here]?" But I am not spewing all these thoughts without a way to remedy the situation. First, let's put a ban on same-sex fraterniz­ing. Everyone put forth your best effort to be seen at least once a day with someone of the opposite sex. Hopefully, the sight will become so commonplace that no one will ever assume two fri\"lnds are dating because they merely are alone together. Better yet, opposite sex friends should make it a point to emphasize their Not Dating sta­tus. Try these lines out, and say them loud enough for everyone in the area code to hear you: 
• 
"I had a great time tonight, even though WE ARE NOT DATING!" 

• 
''I'd like to make a reservation for two people WIIO ARE NOT DATING!" 

• 
"Even though WE ARE NOT DATING, I thought Hobert DeNiro's portrayal of an ex­convict-turned-priest was outstanding!" 

• 
'That was a great run by Kinder, even though WE ARE NOT DATING!" 

• 
"The Yankees arc the best team in base­ball, and WE ARE NOT DATING!" 

• 
"Cheer, cheer for old Notre Dame. WE AHE NOT DATING; we're friends. Send a vol­ley cheer on high...." 


You see what I mean? With a little effort, no one will ever make the mistake of presum­ing that two friends are dating just because they have different reproductive organs. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
• TODAY'S STAFF 
News Production Derek Betcher Belle Bautista Saskia Sidenfaden Chris Uhart Sports Brian Reinrhaler Accent Melanie Waters Lab Tech Julie Vodicka Brandon Candura 

Tho Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. :rhe Observer is a member of 1he Associated Press. All reproduction righu are reserved. 
• WORLD AT A GLANCE 
Tutsi, Hutu clashes cause refugee exodus to Zaire 
CYANGUGU, • Refugee spilled over into 
Rwanda Kibumba Zaire, now home to 
Tutsi rebels traded many of the mortar and small-refugees. arms fire with U.N. officials say Zairian troops in the developing situa­eastern Zaire, as tion in eastern Zaire 500,000 refugees could rival the fled the fighting and 0 humanitarian disas­warehouses of U.N. camp , Lake ter of 1994, when food were reported Kivu hundreds of thou-looted. sands of Hwandan 
Sporadic gunfire llutus fled into Zaire could be heard today after their compatri­in Bukavu, a provin-ots slaughtered cia! capital in eastern 500,000 Hwandan Zaire. Fighting Tutsis. Sunday sent thou-The 1.2 million sands of Bukavu resi-refugees in Zaire are dents streaming west mainly Hutu, and for and north, as the two • at least the last two sides clashed a few years they have been miles to the south. housed in 40 U.N. 
The U.N. refugee c, refugee camps along agency said at least ~ the border. From four people were those camps, mili­killed and 100 10miles tant Hutus have wounded in that ~ launched attacks on fighting Sunday. 10km the Tutsi-led govern-Witness reports that [S;i2:J:m.:uLJJ2B!.LJL.;.L:.lRiWJ~amL;;;.:Z:::llllllittt.::iJ&lt::::::=:::=:r::::=:~JLL;;;._j me n t s in Bu r u n d i many more had died and Hwanda. could not be confirmed. Now the government of Zaire, with the help of some 
A struggle for land and power ,between ethnic Tutsis militant Hutu refugees, has ordered out and attacked and Hutus -which has left thousands dead in the last ethnic Tutsis who have been living in ea,stern Zaire for at three years in neighboring Rwanda and Burundi -has least 200 years. · 
Ailing Yeltsin goes on the offensive 
MOSCOW 
President Boris Yeltsin on Monday canceled all meetings for the week so he can rest and take medical tests ahead of heart surgery. "But it didn't stop him from punishing an ex-confi­dant who says the president is too sick to govern. Yeltsin lashed out at Alexander Korzhakov, his bodyguard and close friend for 11 years, accusing 
. him of making slanderous statements and ordering him relieved of his military duties. His offensive against Korzhakov, who has openly allied himself with ousted security chief Alexander Lebed, was the latest in a series of actions aimed at showing that Yeltsin is still running Russia despite his ailing heart. On Monday, Yeltsin spokesman Sergei Yastrzhembsky said the president was calling off all his meetings and would undergo tests to prepare for surgery. 
KKK lives on in the South 

PELION, S.C. 
A statue of a Ku Klux Klansman and a Confederate battle flag adorned the front yard of a white man charged with firing into a mostly black crowd at a night­club, his cousin said Monday. The flag and statue had been in the yard of the trailer home in Lexington for some time until Clayton Spires Jr. was arrested in the shootings, said !von Harsey, a neighbor and distant cousin. Spires was arrested along with Joshua England of New Holland in the shootings early Sunday that injured two people and left Gary Jones, 17, of Gilbert hospitalized. He was in stable condition. Lexington County Sheriff James Metts asked a task force of state and federal authorities to determine if Spires and England can be charged under federal hate crime statutes. The FBI was investigating. Both men remained in jail on $250,000 bond. 
Woman sues for unwanted surgery 
BATON HOUGE 

Mary Ann Turner thought she was going into the hos­pital for simple surgery to repair damage from the birth of her third baby. Instead, she claims in a lawsuit, sur­geons mutilated her genitals at the instigation of her anesthesiologist husband, who was present during the procedure 24 years ago and treated his wife afterward. "He told them she had some sexual problems and this would fix it," said Turner's lawyer, Richard Ducote. The lawsuit against Alan Ostrowe, her ex-husband, goes to trial Tuesday after eight years in the courts. It has divid­ed the couple's four children -two of their sons side with their father while the eldest son, Michael Constantine, and their daughter back Turner. Turner, now 56, claims Ostrowe persuaded the two surgeons to perform a female circumcision, removing the clitoral hood, while she was sedated. Her lawsuit doesn't offer a motive for Ostrowe's alleged actions, but Constantine says he knows why it happened. 
Asiatic ladybugs attack Hoosiers 
ELKHART 

Those cute little ladybugs are turning into real pests. Swarms of ladybugs have been covering northern Indiana homes, front porches -even inside walls ­recently in their last stop before hibernating. The insects are a species of ladybugs, the Asiatic lady beetle, that have migrated north from Tennessee, said Jeff Burbrink, Elkhart County extension educator. While most residents aren't thrilled with hundreds of bugs cov­ering their homes, the good news is the ladybugs only stay for a day or two. "Basically, it's a good old ladybug except for the nasty habit of swarming or crawling all over the house two days a year," Burbrink said. "It's the perfect insect, until a person finds 1,500 of them on a window." The best defense is resigned patience, Burbrink said. "There's no way to completely seal off a home," he said. "They find their way in." 
• SOUTH BEND WEATHER • NATIONAL WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forcast AccuWeather.,forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 
The AccuWeather<~~>torecast for noon, Tuesday, Oct. 29. 
······: _,./
\. :

).,._/'-----------· H L ~/. 

Tuesdat -(f 61 51 Wedne~day~ 62 41 Thursdfy ~ 52 33 
FRONTS:
Friday) ~ 
48 ............................. ~ 
t kHf~( "" COLD WARM STATIONARY SAMCP Pm"um ~
Satu~day ~~J*.51 H L mISS! [I] 0 ~~ -Q L..J.U 
HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT CLDUUY CLOUDY 
~ t"\l"'' ..... ' :"'-..) 

v;.~ledPr•u 
Allanta 79 58 Dallas 86 67 Miami 85 n BaHimore 78 55 Denver 46 34 New York 70 60 Baton Rouge 84 64 Honolulu 90 75 Phoenix 89 66
4,~,~4.Q.~ ~ ~ & 
Showers T-storms Rain Fl,;rries S~o·.;; Ice Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy 
Chicago 68 59 Indianapolis 76 56 PiHsburgh 71 42 
VIa Associated Prwss GraphiCSNet 
Columbus 73 54 Los Angeles n 59 StLouis n 64 
Tuesday, October 29, 1996 
The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS page3 
O'Donnell honored with Corby Award for service 
Special to The Observer Chaplain Corps Navy Reserve and three years later went on Father Joseph O'Donnell, for­active duty, joining an amphibi­mer Navy chaplain and now ous squadron of seven shipsreligious superior of Holy Cross operating in the coastal waters House, received the University of Vietnam. From 1969 until of Notre Dame Alumni his retirement from active dutyAssociation's Corby Award on in 1994, O'Donnell served in Saturday, October 19, during naval installations in Iceland, halftime ceremonies at the Okinawa, Pearl Harbor, San 
Notre Dame/Air Force football Diego, Portsmouth, Va., and game. Washington D.C. 
The Corby Award, named in His 27 years as an active duty honor of Father William Corby -chaplain included pastoral work Notre Dame's third president in medical facilities, administra­
and chaplain to Union troops tion, teaching and graduateduring the Civil War -is given studies in ethics at Texas annually by the Alumni Medical Center in Houston. For Association to a Notre Dame the last two years of his naval 
graduate "who has exemplified career he was executive assis­the values and true spirit of tant to the Chief of Chaplains. 
Notre Dame while serving in the O'Donnell's numerous militaryactive or reserve armed forces." decorations include the LegionA Chicago native, O'Donnell of Merit, the Meritorious Service 
was a Naval ROTC student who Medal, the Navy Commendation graduated from Notre Dame in Medal, the National Defense 1956. Ordained a priest for the Medal. a Combat Action Ribbon, Congregation of Holy Cross in a Navy Unit Commendation, and 1960 he did graduate work in various awards and ribbons pastoral psychology at Notre from the former Republic of 
Dame and served on the Vietnam. Stanford residence hall staff for At Holy Cross House, the a year before beginning seven retirement and medical facility 
years of ministry in parishes, for the Congregation of Holyschools and retreat houses in Cross, Father O'Donnell pre­the Midwest. In 1965 he sides over 44 resident Holyreceived a commission in the Cross religious and a staff of 35. 
• STUDENT ACTIVITIES BOARD 


SAB up-grades publicity efforts 
By ALLISON KOENIG 

attached party reminders. Although advertising strate­
News Writer 

Buckets of the candy will be gies for comedian Michael Petit 
placed in each residence hall. have not been set, the artist's 
Publicity efforts for Saint Several SAB members will be 
appearance on campus was dis­Mary's Student Activities Board invading classrooms bearing cussed at the meeting. Petit will 
events are steadily improving, cbokies, encouraging students perform on Thursday Nov. 7 at according to the SAB. Earlier, to attend the evening's events. 6 p.m. in the Haggar Snack in August, the Board made a The party will take place in Bar. resolution to increase and Haggar Parlor and Haggar Singer, storyteller, and lectur­improve publicity for the year. Game Room from 7 until 9 p.m. er Jack Gladstone will appear at 
"Publicity makes or breaks Winners of the murder mystery Saint Mary's Haggar Parlor at the (success oO events," said game will receive gift certifi­4:30p.m. on Thursday Nov. 14. Coordinator Lori McKeough, 
cates and discount coupons Gladstone's "Native Reflections" who applauded the board's from local restaurants and tells the story of the Native efforts thus far. stores such as Francesco's, American people in a unique
For example, Traditional Sunny Italy, Spiece, Grains & and entertaining approach. Events chairwomen Jen Ligda Grinds, BW3's, Fazoli's, Papa Ethnic Diversity Chairwoman and Jessi Lentych are trying John's, and Java Juice. 
Bronwyn McAuliffe also dis­

creative methods to attract stu­Other innovative publicity cussed the possibility of a sec­dents to the SAB Halloween efforts will be seen for the "You ond semester performance byparty. Laugh, You Lose" game show. Emmy Gay, a multicultural,
On Thursday, each Saint Gretchen Moore and Lori Riebe pro-gay lecturer/performer.Mary's student will receive an have ordered a large number of McKeough and McAuliffe invitation to the evening's party wax lips in hopes of sprucing up stressed the importance oflook­which includes a murder mys­mundane campus publicity. 
ing at diversity from more than tery game. Public Relations The game show will take one perspective, pointing out Coordinator Kelly Medlin, place Thursday Nov. 14 in the that Gay's appearance mightdressed as a witch, will be Dining Hall during dinner benefit the Saint Mary's com­
handing out candy with hours. munity in that regard. 




Gift funds Latino literature 
Special to The Observer 

Thomas Corson, chairman lection is its reconstruction of and chief executive officer of the library owned by Garcilaso The University has received 
Coachmen Industries Inc. of Inca, the first prominent rues­a $520,000 gift from the family Elkhart, has been a member of tizo intellectual of the 16th and of Tom and Dottie Corson of the advisory council for Notre 17th centures, whose writingsMiddlebury, Ind., to fund the 
Dmae's Law are widely con­acquisition of the Jose Durand 
School since------------sidered indis-
Collection, a unique library of 

1985. pensable to an 
rare Latin American books and 

His wife, 'The generosity of understanding
manuscripts. 

~ottie, is a reg-the Corson family of the mestizo
"The Tom and Dottie Corson 

1stered nurse . ( m i x e d Family Program for the Jose and former Will wonderfully European and 
Durand Collection is a mile­small business enhance the scholar-N a t i v e 

stone in the history of the 

owner. Their h" d . ll l Amerian) roots
reported University libraries," said daughter. s lp an mte ectua of Latin 
call. 
Notre Dame President Father 

Claire Corson life of the Notre Dame American cui­
4:27 p.m. Seeurlty Edward Malloy. "The generos­Skinner, gradu-•t £ ture. 
cle that hlld been broken ity of the Corson family will a ted from the commum y or years to Born in Cuzco parked In the. 02 South lot. wonderfully enhance the 
Law School in come." as the son of a 
6 p.ri't {St)eiifltY scholarship and intellectual 
1981. She has conquistador
life of the Notre Dame commu­

been a member and an Inca
..~~~~i~9rit~~~~ 
nity for years to come." · of the Law Father Edward Malloy P r i n c e s s , School advisory ------------Garcilaso Inca council since 1993. traveled to Spain in 1560, 
• 
Assembled over some 40 eventually settling in years by the late Jose Durand, Andalucia where he remained a professor of Spanish at the until his death. The collecton University of California at includes more than 500 books 
Berkeley, the collection published in the 16th century includes. four incunabula and read and absorbed by
' . . / :_ /
le;·W' 
(books printed before the 16th Garcilaso. century), hundreds of books There are early editions of and monographs from the classical writers like Aristotle, 16th, 17th, and 19th centuries, Ovid, and Virgil, and of Latin American government Renaissance writers like
We have started to take 

documents and historical trea-Boccaccio, Catiglione, and



pa~tments 
tises, at least 19 unpublished Tasso on subjects ranging
applications for next year. 
manuscripits, including 11-n from architecture and religion early 17th century Peruvian to language and literature. work entitled "Tragiocomedia In the wider collection, there de la Ystoria de Joseph," 18th are also chronicles, histories, 
and 19th century broadsheets grammars, and dictionaries
·~
• Furnished apartments 
and pamphlets, several issues reflecting Garcilaso's role as a of "Gaceta de Lima," the oldest colonial historian and Iinquist, 
"'i'i -~t 
• Swimming pool 
r1t 
newspaper in Latin America, along with some of Garcilaso's 
;~~ 
and numerous first editions of own works, such as "Historia General del Peru," his 1617 history. 
•Jacuzzi 

Happy 
20th~ 
Tom! 
l:'ou~ve eome 
a-long way! 
Love, 


----------------~~-------------------------------------------------~------------­
page 4 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS Tuesday, October 29, 1996 
continued from page 1 gram requires that students commit an entire year to study in Ireland. They receive a three-week break for Christmas and a two­week break during the spring. "At first I thought l would miss out on time with my friends if I left for a whole year," Saint Mary's junior Carrie Minogul said. "But com­ing to Ireland was something that I always wanted to do, and so I thought. 'Why not do it?' I spent my sophomore year sav­ing up my money, and at last, here I am." Many of the participating students had to make sacrifices  absence from ROTC," junior Bridget Murphy explained. "I can't say I'm not glad I came. My family began here, and I will get to retrace their steps." Like Murphy, many students study in Ireland to learn about their Irish heritage and to retrace their family's name. One Saint Mary's student has an additional personal factor for studying in Ireland. "Actually, I want to be a sheep-herder in Ireland," Moire Lanigan insisted. "My cousins own a sheep farm here, and it's always been something that I wanted to do. There is a sheep farm across the street from the College, and I often go there and help  what she expected to encounter in Ireland was far from reality. "I had this awful misconcep­tion that Ireland would be just like America, I guess because they speak English," Zacharias explained, "But the languages are not at all alike, and I defi­nitely experienced some cul­ture shock when I arrived." "It's not just adapting to a new culture and a new way of life, Saint Mary's sophomore Mary Liz Tully added. "You have to get used to liv­ing on your own and traveling across hemispheres. Going abroad requires· a lot of responsibility."  Roe01er continued from page 1 giving an election speech, he will be speaking on how his experiences in politics have changed his life," said SAC member Genevieve Morrill, a senior. The Student Academic Council strongly encourages both students and faculty to come out and listen to  Roemer. With the quickly approach­ing election, a Congressman taking the time to speak to the students should have a defi­nite influence. It's unusual to find students with a vast knowledge of poli­tics, and according to Student Academic Council's Tina Hajtek, SAC hopes that Roemer's appearance will help to heighten political awareness on campus.  
Vote continued from page 1  Have something to  
the Standing Committee. Preliminary subcommittee reports also marked last night's CLC meeting. The Alcohol, Student Life and Diversity Committees presented their agenda issues for the remain­der of the semester.  say? Use Observer classifieds.  





SMC names College editor 
Special to The Observer publication support to academ­graphic communication at the 
ic departments and administra­same institution. In the 
Kate Hancock has been tive offices of the College. English department there, named college editor/director Hancock received a bachelor Hancock served as assistant to of publications for Saint Mary's of arts degree magna cum the director of composition, College. Hancock's responsibil­laude from Morehead State assistant director of the· ities include University in Morehead, Ky. Macintosh computer lab and managing all and a master's degree in teaching assistant. She also official publi­English and doctorate in was a stafT writer in the office cations, serv­American literature from Ohio of publications at Morehead ing as editor University in Athens, Ohio. State University. of the Saint Most recently, Hancock served Hancock is a published poet Mary's as assistant to the president for with a chapbook "The Lazarus College publi­communications at Ohio Method" due out in October cation, University. from Kent State University Courier, and Prior to that, she was publi­Press. She is also a copy editor providing cations editor in the office of for The Ohio Review. 

besides being away from their out." 
family and friends for a year. Saint Mary's sophomore Lisa "I had to take a year's Zacharias admits that some of 
Ireland 
Organ concert set for Basilica on Sunday 
Special to The Observer Cesar Franck. The concert is free and open to the public. 
David Dahl, university Dahl. also the director of organist. at Pacific Lutheran music ministries at Christ University~ will present an Episcopal Church in Tocoma, organ recital Sunday at 8 Washington, has been per­
p.m. in· · Basilica of the forming for more than 30 Sacred Dahl is also a years. at Pacific Among Dahl's many dis­
tinctions, he was a recitalist include of the 1994 National Lubeck. Convention of the American 
~· Hans Guild of Organists in Dallas, Fanny Texas, and has performed for Michel national conventions of the 
Organ Historical Society. 
MORRIS CIVIC AUDITORIUM 
November 1-2-3, 1996 Friday 8 p.m., Saturday 2 p.m. &8 p.m., Sunday 1 :30 p.m. and 7:30 p.m. EST Tickets: $20.50 to $45.50 
Call 219-235-9190 
Box office open Monday -Friday 10 am -5 pm Group, Student & Senior Citizen Discounts Charge to VISA, MasterCard, Amex 
A Broadway Theatre League Presentation 
Tuesday, October 29, 1996 The Observer • ELECTION '96 page 5 
Clinton heralds fiscal health Issues take center stage 
By TERENCE HUNT White House Correspondent 
MINNEAPOLIS 
President Clinton brought another dose of good news to the campaign trail Monday, saying he has steered the budget deficit to its lowest level since 1981. Republicans also claimed credit for the drop, but the administration said they don't deserve it. 
On a sunny fall day, the president pumped up thou­sands of supporters at a city hall rally in a St. Louis sub­urb, his first stop on a day­long swing through three Midwestern states. "Bear down, eight days," shouted Clinton, far ahead in the polls with the election fast approaching. 
With the help of two stu­dents, Clinton literally unveiled a huge chart with a graph showing the deficit had dropped to $107.3 billion in the fiscal year that ended Sept. 30. 
"The deficit was a ball and chain holding back our econo­my," the president said. "Well, today we got some new good news about exactly how far the deficit has dropped since I took office." 
Speaking over a small group of hecklers in a huge crowd of supporters, Clinton cited the $107.3 billion figure and said, "So today, Missouri, you don't have to listen to the shouting. You can look at the showing." He also carried the deficit news to rallies in Minneapolis and Chicago. 
Addressing a near.capacity crowd at the Target Center sports arena in Minneapolis, 
for upcoming election 
Election Presidential economics 

Clinton implored voters, "Will you be there on Tuesday? God bless you, Minnesota." As he talked about America's global responsibilities, a woman shout­ed back, "Tell me about it, draft dodger." 
Republicans asserted they were responsible for bringing the deficit down. 
"This is a huge credit to the common sense Republican 
A comparison of the U.S. economy in the 
By CALVIN WOODWARD
~ years that three presidents faced re-election: 
Associated Press Writer 
• 1984/or J992for 0 J996for 
WASHINGTON 
Ronald Reagan George Bush Bill Clinton 
Voters are of many minds this year on what they most need to GPO-----Unemployment -Inflation ---­
know. They want the candi­
dates' plans on taxes. Schools are a concern to many. They're anxious about crime. To a moti­vated minority, abortion matters most. 
But no one issue towers over the others in this presidential campaign. So what's left to dis­cuss? Plenty. 
• TAXES: The hardy perennial squeaked to the top in the Pew Center poll on subjects voters wanted to hear more about. 
Dole promises big tax reduc­tions plus a balanced budget by 2002 without painful spending cuts. But important details are missing. As well, the plan requires both an accelerated economy and a pliant Congress to work. 
Clinton broke his 1992 promise for a middle-class tax cut. He raised taxes on the wealthy, gave the working poor more tax relief and boosted the gasoline tax. 
• ABORTION: The non-parti­
san group Project Vote Smart Congress which fought for fields thousands of hotline calls 
spending constraints," party from people wanting to know chairman Haley Barbour said. where candidates stand. This is 
But the administration dis­the topic most in demand. agreed. "The spending reduc­Clinton vetoed a bill that tion since the Republican major­would have banned most uses of ity's been in place has been rel­a late-term abortion procedure.atively modest compared to the Many Democrats, otherwise'' overall total, although we have supportive of abortion rights,been able to work with them in joined Republicans to back the the last year on a mutually proposed ban. 
acceptable budget.' But Dole, while opposed to abortion rights, is not comfort­able discussing the subject. And his party does not have the pub­lic's support for wanting a con­stitutional abortion ban. 
• EDUCATION: Clinton wants a strong federal role; Dole would close the Education Department and give more con­trol to local officials. 
Dole, in a 15-state pilot pro­gram requiring matching state money, would offer $1,000 ele­mentary and $1,500 high school vouchers to help parents pay for private or religious school, or to send their children to better public schools. 
Clinton opposes vouchers. He likes charter schools, which can be set up by parents, teachers or other groups and get no­strings government money as long as they meet standards. He also talks about stepped-up repair, literacy and technology programs for public schools. 
• CRIME: Clinton won a major anti-crime package that includ­ed money for more local police and more prisons. He stiffened gun control and expanded the death penalty. But he saw teen­age drug use double in his term. 
Dole pledges to cut teen-age drug use by half, using the National Guard and perhaps the military to fight supply. Like Clinton, he favors a constitution­al amendment to strengthen the rights of crime victims and the idea of prosecuting violent youths as adults. 
He opposes most gun controls but favors an "instant-check" system for gun purchases and says he would appoint tougher judges. 
EHCLUS I UEL Y RT RYRES 
WIN AN AUTOGRAPHED MICHAEL JORDAN BASKETBALL 
Register to win in the Men's Fragrance Department now through November 9th. 
One winner will be chosen from a random drawing of all stores' entries. Basketball to be awarded in January 1997. Some restrictions may apply. 

Experience this exciting new cologne... distinctive, invigorating, fun and "light as air." Cologne Spray 3.4-oz., $35. 1.7-oz., $23. 
TM
Designed and created by bijan, XEL Inc. ©1996. 

ORDER ANY TIME TOLL-FREE 1-800-528-2345 
page 6 The Observer • INTERNATIONAL NEWS Tuesday, October 29, 1996 
• EGYPT 
Dozens missing in collapse 
By SALAH NASRAWI 
Associated Press Writer 
CAIRO 
Using cranes, shovels and their bare hands, rescue work­ers pulled 15 survivors Monday from the ruins of a collapsed 12­story apartment building in a Cairo suburb, but dozens more were still missing. 
By nightfall. a total of 15 bod­ies had been found in the rubble of the concrete-block and plas­ter building, which collapsed Sunday in Heliopolis, an upper middle-class residential and commercial suburb on the east side of Cairo. 
Police said more than 60 oth­ers were still unaccounted for. Six people were rescued Sunday. 
Scores of anxious relatives 
stood in the street Monday, 
many weeping and others too 
I 
stunned to talk. 
~ 
• AFGHANISTAN 
Anaheed Abdel-Messih, a woman in her 20s, said her par­ents were in an x-ray clinic in the building when it collapsed. 
"I don't know if they are still alive," she cried. "It needs a miracle." 
Dr. Adel el-Sharouni, Cairo's chief of emergency aid, said he had to amputate the arm of one victim and the leg of another to free them from the debris. "We couldn't get them out without the operation," he said. 
Police detained a building con­tractor and an engineering con­sultant for questioning Monday, saying they may have been responsible for weakening the 30-year-old building's structure by ordering the removal of walls during the renovation of an apartment. 
The building's owner also was arrested, police said. 
Many buildings in Cairo are poorly constructed. Building owners often add floors beyond the number allowed on their permits, contractors cheat on materials and there is little gov­ernment enforcement of zoning or construction codes. 
Gen. Mukbil Shafri, comman­der of the army's engineer corps who was supervising the rescue work, told Egypt's Middle East News Agency he believed changes had been made to the columns supporting the front of the building, causing the col­lapse. 
A neighbor, Ahmed Mohammed, said some residents of the building jumped from their balconies as the building crumbled Sunday evening. He said he heard two loud noises, then could seen nothing but a huge cloud of dust being thrown up by the collapsing walls. 
All but the back side of the building fell, piling debris five stories high. 
Afghan civil strife intensifies 
By ANDREW SELSKY 
Associated Press Wrirer 
KABU 
Allied forces seeking to pre­vent the country's takeover by an army of religious students massed Monday 10 miles north of Kabul, while their fighter jets bombed Taliban positions on the edge of the capital. 
Soldiers loyal to warlord Rashid Dostum fought along­side former government troops led by the ousted military chief, Ahmed Shah Massood. 
The anti-Taliban forces were several thousand strong, reporters there said. Soldiers from a smaller Islamic sect known as Jsmaili Muslims also arrived at the front line Monday to link up with Dostum and Massood, they said. 
Pilots loyal to Dostum con­ducted bombing runs outside the capital Monday. The attacks followed night bombing raids on the Kabul airport, on the northwestern edge of the city. It was the third straight day Dostum's jets bombed Kabul airport. 
"Our forces are participating fully, whether on the defense or on the attack," said Gen. Yusuf, a spokesman at Dostum's head­quarters in the northern city of 
1 Mazar-e-Sharif. "It's our planes that are bombing." There have been no reports of injuries. 
The Taliban army seized the capital on Sept. 27, ousting the government, and have cap­tured two-thirds of the .country in their campaign to impose their version of strict Islamic rule. 
The military alliance against the Taliban formed soon after the capital fell, combining the forces of Dostum, Massood, the Ismailis led by Jaffar Nauderi and a small Shiite sect led by Karim Khalili. 
This ad was design~d and sub~mi1tted ofThe University •· 
Peace envoys from the United Nations and Pakistan are trying to broker a cease-fire, but talks are deadlocked. 
On Monday, Dostum's forces moved multiple-rocket launch­ers into place north of a key pass that the deposed govern­ment has been trying to cap­ture for nearly a week. 
Taliban soldiers are fiercely guarding the Khair Khay pass area, whose hills overlook Kabul, repulsing repeated attempts to claim it. 
In Kabul, two bombs landed near the airport shortly after midnight. A third -a cluster bomb -hit a runway. Airport workers swept up the shrapnel so the airport could reopen, they said. 
Jordan River 
Map
......,'1fi>,;.._...,Jrl detail I -.4
.......it) 
' 
AP/Car1 Fox 
''If there is a redeployment,there will be no way to prevent bloodshed," said Baruch Marzel, a leader of the Hebron community, .;~
11 
CAREER OPPORTUNITIES -CS FIRST BosToN -­"As far as you want. As fast as you can. " The Firm: CS First Boston is a leading global investment bank with 33 offices in 21 countries. The Position: CS First Boston is recruiting for its Financial Analyst program. Positions are available in the Investment Banking Division. Event: On-campus presentation. All University of Notre Dame Seniors are invited to attend the presentation. When: Monday, November 4, 1996 at 7:30p.m. Where: Senior Bar Interviewing Date:' Wednesday, January 29, 1997  

Tuesday, October 29, 1996 The Observer • NATIONAL NEWS page 7 
Court set for euthanasia case 
By LAURIE ASSEO 
Associated Press Writer 
WASHINGTON 
The Constitution does not create a "right to die," says Supreme Court Justice Antonio Scalia, who with the rest of the court will soon decide whether states may ban doctor-assisted suicide. 
In a recent speech at Catholic. University, Scalia said it is "absolutely plain that there is no right to die. There were laws against sui­cide" when the Constitution was drafted. 
The high court agreed earli­er this month to decide whether doctors can be barred from prescribing life­ending drugs for terminally ill patients who no longer want to live. 
Most states forbid doctor­assisted suicide, but lower courts have struck down such bans imposed by New York and Washington state. 
Scalia did not mention the assisted suicide issue, accord­ing to a transcript of his Oct. 18 speech to an audience at Catholic University's school of philosophy. But he repeated his previous statements that the Constitution does not pro­tect a right to die. 
Legal ethics expert Geoffrey Hazard, a University of Pennsylvania law professor, 
'All sorts of rights 
that clearly did not exist at the time of the Constitution have been held by the court and are thought by jus­tices of the court to exist today.' 
Supreme Court Justice Antonin Scalia 
said today that while Scalia had a right to speak, he thought the justice's state­ment was "very poor form." 
For those with a case com­ing before the court, "I think they would feel that his mind is closed to them and that is an unfortunate feeling to have when you're going before the court," Hazard said. 
Another legal ethics expert, 
&B BOOKMARKET I 
Wilshire Plaza • Mishawaka 'Zl' 219/243-9062 (Former "House of Fabrics" between "Sam's" &"Waccamaw PoHery") STORE HOURS Mo11..sot IOAM-9PM /Sun 12PM-6PM 
New York University law pro­fessor Stephen Gillers, said Scalia's statement wouldn't disqualify him from hearing the case because he already wrote forcefully in a 1990 opinion that the Constitution doesn't recognize a right to die. 
But Gillers added, "If he had called me, I would have said 'you don't need this.' It will give the public less confi­dence in the objectivity of his vote." 
Scalia told the Catholic University audience that courts should not recognize constitutional rights -such as the right to abortion -that did not exist when the Constitution was drafted. 
"All sorts of rights that clearly did not exist at the time of the Constitution have been held by the court and are thought by justices of the court to exist today," he said. 
Last April -before the high court agreed to decide the doctor-assisted suicide issue -Scalia warned students at Bridgewater College in Bridgewater, Va., against relying on law to resolve all societal problems. 
Clinton's Cri01e Bill fails to curb violence 
Two years after passage, reforms prove ineffective 
By LAURA MECKLER 
Associated Press Writer 
WASHINGTON 
Children murdered. Neighborhoods terrorized. A violent crime every 22 seconds. Those were the images invoked as Congress passed, and President Clinton signed, a bill to put 100,000 police on the streets. 
But two years later, by spe­cific intent, those police officers are just as likely to end up in quiet small towns as in dense city neighborhoods devastated by violence. 
Of the 43,028 cops funded by August, more than half went to cities with below-average vio­lent crime rates or to towns so small they don't even report their crime data to the FBI, according to an Associated Press computer analysis. 
And one-third of the addi­tions to police departments ­counted as more than 14,000 officers -aren't new cops at all. Instead, that money went to hire civilians for office work, pay overtime or buy equip­ment. Cities calculated the hours gained in officer street time, added them up, and the Justice Department counted that toward the 100,000 goal. 
Yet all of that was what Congress intended. 
"Quite simply put, it's the only way the bill would have passed," said Bob Scully, exec­utive director of the National Association of Police Organizations. "Everyone in this country has a concern about crime and everyone wanted to have a piece of the pie.'' 
Few applications have been turned down as the govern­ment awarded $2.24 billion ­early installments on a six-year program that adds officers gradually. 
If a department took the time to apply, came up with the minimum 25 percent matching money, demonstrated it could retain the officer after the fed­eral money ran out and showed a commitment to community policing -which aims to con­nect officers with the neighbor­hoods they serve -it was sure to get a grant. 
Crime rates were not consid­ered. 
Given the political reality, the results are not surprising. About half the officers -just over 20,000 -went to cities with 1994 crime rates above the national average of 7.14 violent crimes per 1,000 peo­ple. 
Departments with below­average violent crime received an additional 18,450 officers. And the rest went to·depart­ments that don't report their FBI statistics. 
Crime rates tell only part of the story, said Joe Brann, director of the program within the Justice Department. Police also work with communities in other ways, and the grants fur­ther the goal of spreading com­munity policing, no matter what a town's crime level is, he said. 
Besides, he added, even a small amount of crime is unac­ceptable to most people. 
Small towns agree. 
Briarwood Beach, Ohio, with 690 residents and one violent crime in 1994, has started see­ing drug problems, said Mayor Terry Biddle. Its three-person force doubled with the grant ­one of 312 departments that received at least one officer for every violent crime in 1994. 
"One fulltime police officer might not make any difference in Philadelphia, Washington or New York, but I guarantee that one fulltime officer makes a tremendous impact in our vil­lage," he said. 
Yet that's a far cry from the rhetoric that surrounded the program as it moved through Congress, strongly pushed by Clinton. 
.
.,_~..._.,.~--~--<---­
page 8 The Observer • NATIONAL NEWS Tuesday, October 29, 1996 
FBI clears Jewell of bo01bing suspicion 
By RUSS BYNUM Associated Press Writer 
ATLANTA 
Richard Jewell, cleared of suspicion in the Olympic Park bombing, said today the FBI and the media engaged in a "mad rush" that nearly destroyed his life. 
"I did not set became the center of intense coverage. 
"Your cameras and the FBI followed my every move," he said. "I was numb, sick. I was in shock and felt helpless. I felt like a hunted animal, followed constantly, waiting to be killed." 
The effort to clear his name 
e n d e d 
out to be a--------..,;,---Saturday when hero," Jewell 'In their mad rush_ to federal prose-
said in a state-cutors sent ment to fulfill their own Jewell a letter reporters, his personal agendas, the clearing him of 
voice breaking suspicion. at times. "I set FBI and the media "In their out to do my 1 t d t d mad rush to
job." amos es roye me fulfill their The onetime and my mother.' own personal Olympic securi-agendas, the ty guard tear-. h I FBI and the 
fully thanked Rzc ard Jewel media almost 
his mother and his law.fers for their faith in him through his 88-day effort to convince the world of his innocence. 
"For 88 days I lived a night­mare," Jewell said. "For 88 days, my mother lived a night­mare, too. Mom, thanks for sticking behind me and believ­ing in me." 
The July 27 explosion during a late-night concert in Centennial Olympic Park killed one person and injured more than 100. 
Jewell, a security guard for AT&T, found the suspicious knapsack minutes before it exploded, but then he came under suspicion. While he was never charged, his name was leaked to the media and he 
destroyed me and my moth­er," Jewell said. 
lie said that during his ordeal, "the knowledge that I did my job and in the process might have saved lives kept me going. My faith in God gave me peace of mind. I thank God it is now ended." 
''I'm glad that the emperor has finally admitted that he has no clothes," said one of his attorneys, G. Watson Bryant Jr. 
Jewell did not take questions after reading the statement. 
Earlier today, prosecutors released FBI affidavits that were used to gain warrants for searches of Jewell's home and other property after the bomb­ing. 

new and used cars Gates Chevy World 
Call Greg Mitchem at 237-4000 for appointment 
Bring this ad in and receive 
$1000ff 
~pPV 
~ JAMES You.•re -the Bes-t! 
Love, Mom Dad Lori & Darren 
The Observer 
is now accepting applications for the following position: 
Sports Writers Sports Copy Editors 
Please contact Tim Sherman or Joe Villinski in the Sports department at 1-4543 for more information. 
New drug sparks optimism 
By MATT CRENSON 
Associated Press Writer 
BALTIMORE 
Scientists are encouraged by early studies that show drugs used in organ trans­plants can regenerate cells damaged by Alzheimer's, Parkinson's and related dis­eases of the nervous system. 
Test-tube experiments, as well as trials using rats and monkeys, are showing that modified versions of drugs such as FK506 and cyclosporin can help restore damaged nerve cells in the brain and nervous system, neuroscientist Solomon Snyder said Monday. 
"It's clearly something worth studying," said Snyder, a professor of neuroscience, pharmacology and psychiatry at the Johns Hopkins 
8' This 
~'.iweek 
University School of Medicine. 
Animal experiments have shown that the immunosup­pressive drug FK506 and other drugs derived from it can improve the regeneration of facial and other nerves that have been crushed. 
In test tubes, the drugs have also stimulated regrowth in_ the kind of nerve cells that are important in Alzheimer's and in Parkinson's disease. 
Bruce Gold, a pioneer in the field and professor at the Oregon Health Sciences University in Portland, cau­tioned that it will be a while before the drugs are used in humans. 
"It's in the early experi­mental stages," he said. 
But the properties that have been discovered so far sug­gest that the immunosuppres­sant relatives could be useful in any case involving nerve 
§>ri: at Kickers 
~ TUESDAY:
::S Karaoke-Over 4000 songs 
WEDNESDAY: Incognito* * 8-1OPM DJ starts at 1OPM. 
Win prizes all night!!! 
THURSDAY: Open Jam & Halloween Party 
featuring "The Sulentic Brothers" $100 Cash prize for the best costume 
FRIDAY & SATURDAY: 
DJ Dance Party 
N 
between Cleveland and Douglas on US31-33 
4 pool tables, 4 dart boards, big screen TV's, and good times for all! 
**Incognito is the area's Hottest Male Dance Revue 
. 
D 'til3AM 
r r ~ . c-u·rs~­
. I,--·I~
Snt&IJ . -_,. _,.
. . .r' -~ .. -J 
STUDY ABROAD 
• 
Coursework, internships & more ' 

• 
Business programs in 3 countries 

• 
Placement in foreign universities 


ZIMBABWE • ENGLAND • ITALY HONG KONG • SPAIN • FRANCE 
SYRACUSE UNIVERSITY • 119 Euclid Avenue • Syracuse, NY 13244-4170 1·800·235-3472 • DIPA@suadmin.syr.edu • http://sumweb.syr.edu/dipa 
damage, including paralysis due to spinal cord injury, carpal tunnel syndrome, neu­rodegenerative diseases and stroke. 
Now researchers are begin­ning to test the drugs in mon­keys that have a disorder sim­ilar to Parkinson's. 
If those tests go well, Snyder said, human tests of the drug could begin in a year or so. 
"It's preliminary, but let me tell you it's working," he said. 
Researchers found in the 1960s that they could shut down the body's immune sys­tem by interfering with a bio­chemical pathway that even­tually causes an attack on materials alien to the body, such as a newly transplanted kidney or liver. 
Without the drugs that do that, organ transplants wouldn't be possible. 
Paris Madrid Guatemala 
Hong Kong $434 Bangkok $477 
fAAES ME EACH WAY FROM INDIANAPOUS lASED ON AROUNOTRIP PUftCHASE. fARES DO HOT INClUDE FEDEAAL TAXES 011 Pf(S TOTAUNG IETWEEN $3-$45, DEPf:NOING ON D£ST\NAOON 011 D£PAim.lfiE CHARGES PAW ~ECRY 10 fOAEIGN GOVERNMeNTS. 
[ieihlf411Travel--...._ 
National Reservation Center 1-800-2-COUNCil 
( 1-800-226-8624) 
http:llwww.ciee.org!traveUmn 
EUROPASS FROM $210 
EURAILPASSES AVAil ABLE BY PHONE! 
• 
I ; ~ 
a.. 
~ 
$233 $242 $238 

VIEWPOINT 
Tuesday, October 29, 1996 
THE OBSERVER 
NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1996-97 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Elizabeth Foran Managing Editors Business Manager Patricia Carson Matt Casey Tom Roland 
News Editor ........................ Brad Prendergast Advertising Manager............................ Ellen Ryan Viewpoint Editor...................Ethan Hayward Ad Design Manager ............................... Jed Peters Sports Editor .....................Timothy Sherman Production Manager....................... Tara Grieshop Accent Editor........................... Joey Crawford Systems Manager ....................... Michael Brouillet 
Saint Mary's Editor ................. Caroline Blum Controller..........................................Tyler Weber Photo Editor .......................... Michael Ruma 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University ofNotre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administra­cion ofeither institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned edi­torials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Columns present the views of the authors, and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notre: Dame/Saint Mary's com­munity and to all rc:adc:rs. The: frc:c: expression ofvarying opinions chrough letters is enCouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 
Editor-in-Chief 631-4542 Business Office 631-5313 Managing Editor/Viewpoint 631-4541 Advertising 631-6900/8840 Sports 631-4543 Systems/Marketing Dept. 631-8839 News/Photo 631-5323 Office Manager 631-7471 Accent/Saint Mary's 631-4540 Fax 631-6927 Day Editor/Production 631-5303 Viewpoint E-Mail Viewpoint.1@nd.edu General Information 631-7471 Ad E-Mail observc:r@darwin.cc.nd.edu 
• THE.MIGHTY OAK 

page 9 
... 
1 
Ecology-minded turtle is somethin·g to be admired 
Consider the wisdom of the turtle. 
He has quietly and unobtrusively plied the waters and forests of this plan­et for millions of years. There is a cer-· tain intelligence hidden in the deep brown pools of his eyes. A noble, horny brow cradles these wells of secret 
Sean O'Connor 
knowledge, the glasses through which the collective conscience of his ancient order has viewed the entire evolution of our species, the proliferation of our technology, and the rise of our civiliza­tions. 
The turtle has always complied with the natural order. He has been success­ful in his own way, having to change lit­tle through the millennia even as every­thing around him was altered drastical­ly. His way is modest, yet undeniably awesome, for he has ruled his little niche for a time that we cannot even fathom. 
As I sit and think of the life of the tur­tle, I am reminded of his admirable per­sistence, the will to live which is present in the quiet determination of his eyes. 
When I was young, my friends and I repeatedly caught a particular box turtle in our neighborhood over a span of sev­eral summers. This fellow only had three legs, the fourth lost in some old accident of his, yet it did not seem to bother him. He was fast and bold, not retracting into his battered shell when we plucked him from his path. 
When we returned him to his former position, he would resume his progress without pause, staying true to his same 
• 000NESBURY 
Go.P.ANAL-YSTOIA'3Emi.BOTTDL lAKES ON7HE CHAf?IJCTEI(/951E. 
, DIJ.5tCAJJ.Y, /1/E'R& TAI.J<I/Ik3 . 
.·. AI30UT7H£MJ5Te/HICAI.--' L-Y CHAl/..ENGf3l?/dffiz; fi()(}S£./NA CENTVR'I.' 
path, driven by instinct or necessity to complete some errand that is beyond our knowledge. I admired this turtle, and empathized with him because of his old affiiction. 
After several summers, we did not see him again. Though our subdivision retained its own little fastness of nature in the form of a second-growth woodlot, the neighborhoods around us were rapidly being scraped clean of anything that grew while I myself was growing up. There was nothing for an old turtle, wizened warrior though he was, in a sterile landscape of raw clay. I do not know what happened to him, though I can guess it was not a good fate. 
Where once we caught four or five turtles each summer, now I have seen none for five summers. The last I saw in my yard was attracted to our strawber­ries; our resident turtles had always dis­played an uncanny ability to seek them out when they were ripe. I saw this same turtle crushed dead in the street in front of our house several days later, probably on his way home from our gar­den. 
If that old battler the turtle, undefeat­ed for millennia, can so easily disappear even from a suburban area that retains some semi-natural areas, imagine how much easier something much more sen­sitive can meet its end. My mother swears that only several years previous, the butterflies in our yard were manifold more. The flowers of our gardens at the height of summer were graced with flut­tering caucuses of swallowtails the size of my hand. 
Later, during the annual late summer migrations, the monarchs would hang from the trees by the thousands, cloth­ing them in a brilliant, dripping shower of orange that gently swayed with the wind. Now the swallowtails are fewer though our flowers are more, and the monarchs gather in multitudes of three. Perhaps pesticide use has reduced them, or maybe a more direct form of habitat 
70 /JA"TC, OV&R 
30M£Mee<s OP THIS AJ1MIN­157RATIONHAVE 8/ZN !NIOt-VEI? 

destruction. Regardless, there are obvi­ously fewer and that is not good. It is in fact perilous, for who can know what greater calamity their demise foretells? 
This planet has evolved an inconceiv­ably complex set of interactions over several billion years. Within several thousand years, and especially the last several hundred, these interactions have been seriously upset, perhaps irrevoca­bly so. This alarms me greatly; I know earth and life have a remarkable elastic­ity in general, but many individual species are not so malleable. Surely, the accumulated losses of many species will cause the whole system to crash. Remember the analogy of the plane; one can pull rivets from its wings and it will still fly, but who can predict the key rivet, the removal of which will compro­mise the integrity of the entire body? It would appear profoundly logical not to pull rivets . 
REAGAN HAP OVE'R /00 
UN/JE!U//11$ IN TROU8t&. AN/J THEIR.IUR.ON6/JO/NGU/A5 FAR MOl?£ 5B<JOUS! YET 71-fE PIJ8UC FOR.GAV& RE'AGAN­
SHOU/../JN'TatNlON GeT THE SM1E PASS?' 
GARRY TRUDEAU 
NO. a!N7DN5 A t./8131<AL­HESHOUW 
/(JI(JI(/ ~­
/ 
The tvrtle is a silent witness to the unhinging of the natural order. He must realize that something is drastically wrong, that some catastrophe is looming in the future. 
Though the turtle's few acres of trees are mercilessly stripped by the machines of a species whose entire rise to prominence occurred within only a fraction of the turtle's long reign, he can do nothing, say nothing. His reservoir of wisdom is locked within his old horny head. While the turtle will go on, incon­spicuously earning a living among leaf litter and water weed in the few wild places left to the world, we will go on upsetting, destroying. It is a pity we do not have the wisdom of the turtle. 
Sean O'Connor is a senior Arts and Letters major. His column appears every other Tuesday. 
• 0UOTE OF THE DAY 
"land my public under­
stand each other very 
well: it does not hear what I 
say, and I don't say what it 
wants to hear." 
-Karl Kraus 
;ACCENT
page 10 Tuesday, October 29, 1996 
Has baseball struck out with 
Pirates' shortstop Jay Bell proves that good gu~ 
By MELANIE WATERS 
Assistall! Accent Editor 
As triumphant Yankee fans party in the streets ofNew York and 
Braves fans hang their heads along with their ever-waving toma­
hawks. another season ofMajor League Baseball draws to a close. And while some fans enjoyed the success of their favorite teams or were content that there even was a World Series, others remained leery of the sport and its continuing conflicts between man­agers. owners. players and the media. The 1996 season marked a return to a full schedule ofgames, much to the relief offans who were frustrated by a shortened 1995 season and furious with a 1994 season that left them without a World Series at all. !Jut with attendance 
still struggling in 
m a n y 
major league . :~ ~~~;: ~:~-: ·,-· 
sta-·-. 
diums and many fans still griping about players' behavior both on and off the field, is there anything left to like about baseball? 
Many players demand salaries that contain more O's than a can of Chef Boyardee's finest, and while they appear to be willing to strike for their financial rights, each passing year brings new incidences of less-than-million-dollar behavior. 
Spitting on umpires? Punching out photographers and cursing the media? Drug rehab? And we used to think that bat corking was a trauma. 
While Major League Baseball remains in dire need ofa true commis­sioner, there are still plenty of good reasons to love the sport. This past summer, Accent spent the day with one of those reasons: Pittsburgh Pirates shortstop Jay Bell, who has not only been rec­ognized repeatedly for his community service efforts, but also served as the National League players' representative during the 1994 strike. As a player, negotiator, and dad, Bell speaks out on what is still great about baseball and what can be 
done to keep it that way. 
''I'm sorry," says Pirates Media Helations Director .Jim Trdinich as he hustles into the dugout at Three 
Rivers Stadium. "Jay's on his way. lie's with his family." It is hours until game time, and the outlield 
grass is basking in the warmth of the mid-afternoon August sun as a handful of players trickle onto the field for an impromptu round of fielding practice. 
Bell's teammates explain that while his talents help to lead the team on the field each night, his first priority is with his family. Minutes later, the locker room door opens 
and the Gold Glove Award winning shortstop emerges, already changed into his crisp white, black and gold uniform that sports the number three. 
A large contingent of fans have started to gather in the cen­
ter field grass in preparation for the Pirates' annual "Camera Night," Polaroids in tow, hoping for the chance to meet their favorite player. 
Clearly a favorite of many Pittsburgh fans, Bell knows that a professional athlete's life is subject to constant scrutiny 
-whether or not they feel the need to act accordingly. . .;O.~~c·~~ _ "I don't care if you're out on the baseball field or <:'~~~ ·:: ,:::...~~.:...~,. if you're reporting on somebody or anything!" he 
. ~"t :;},3,2·~:'"::.::;;~~:.?:_'?:"-: says firmly. "You're a role model! And so that's ~;;:..,..~-:-~ ~, ~-·~~,-.~-=$::R~·-f-:\ when you have to say:., h~ve a responsibility:
~~'::-"~~i::.~'-'..;-~~---,=·•·:~·-· _: _·-..._ .....-:;_· -·ff .e~·::'"'~.:O not because of the situatiOn, but because you . · .. · '· ::~·::·.· -_ ._,..: ~---: ;-~~~;.~ are a human being with responsibilities. And :;:;.~_~"'-=-'::=:. --: ~--~~--'--;.. :.;.._7·--.~.. because I ~'? who I am, I have a responsibility
_ 
~---~"'-"-_;"..;~~~··---· -2:·· _,_....._ . -~.-· =--..., ~: to be a positive role model." · ·-::...__ -= · · .---:.·, ::_,~~: ~ ~ "The people who are watching me the clos­
.. . 
~~~~§;.:;~~::J:-.ffJ~~'£1~·~~-~~~ · 
~ 
·. :.,;·-. --~---:~~'~ est are my children and my wife," says ~-:;..:",?;;:_-~-;.__7 Bell, "and so I have a responsibility to 
-.~., them." ~_;~ In addition, Bell's faith as a Christian has 
·-:. ..:;:;: been a source of inspiration to him both on and off the field, shaping his personal conduct and his commitment to service work. In 1993, the city of Pittsburgh awarded him the Pittsburgh Points of Light Foundation Award for his extensive efforts. 
Currently, Bell works closely with a Pittsburgh charity led by a local minister that provides necessary goods and services to low­
income city residents at a greatly reduced eost. 
"The emphasis is not on giving things away, but it's 'work for what you get,' and we'll help you in the process," explains Bell. "It's a great charity -it 
does some major things for the city." In addition, Bell manages to do some pretty great things 
for the team that he has been a leader of for the past eight seasons. Consistently ranked at or near the top of all short­stops in the majors in assists and fielding percentage, Bell was 
an integral part of the Pirates teams of the early 90's that won the National League East Division 
Baseball changed quickly, thou: 1994 players' strike. Like many c the lower decks of Three Hivers Pittsburgh Steelers. I 
To lure baseball fans, manage1 giveaways, at which Bell shakes h 
"Gimmicks are not the ansv major thing, other than getting a ment for a new stadium, would put a winning team out on the J That's what people will pay to set 
Could the construction of a new base-ball-only stadium be the key to a winning season 
b 0 t h 
!lnancial­ly and athleti­cally for I t h e 
.----1I 
. • -.. I 
_:. .~-~1 
..---=----.. . 
'f-! : ... --,.:;~. -::~1 
~~~. -----­
~-. . --~·-:-·-1
'-;;· ~ .. -, -..~~ 
-~--· ..-~. .-­
Pirates'! ·-..,.... =­"A new 
·--;::;.· · stadium in the beginning will be a pick-me­up,'' says Bell, "but you have to maintain it by putting a good team on the field. We don't have a very good lease and it doesn't matter how many fans come to the game, !the Pirates) ru still not making great money from ticket sales because they have to 1 much money elsewhere. If the team owned their own stadium; 
would have all the revenue -pa sions, tickets -so that's a major want this new stadium." 
If Bell seems comfortable with tl no surprise that he was a natura representative during the strike. at a winter meeting of all the tear his colleagues at the center of an 1 and labor disagreements. 
"The players' strike was not n Bell, "it was about the whole. Am time, but the whole to come. I J­whole, as well as to me individual! 
"Nobody can see the future. I 1 a bad decision. And in the proces for a while. Hopefully, we can gel period of time so we won't even labor bickering back and forth in t 
Baseball is a notoriously vola! 
maps of where you are going. Check out "MapQuest" (www.mapquest.com) for
• WEB SITE OF THE WEEK 
free web site that provides city to city driving directions for anywhere in the 

"South Bend" and "Chicago," and MapQuest will take care of the rest. MapQu detailed maps ofyour entire trip, and can even provide points of interest, and loc.
On the Road to the Windy City 
stations and fast food restaurants along the way. 
Before you leave, though, check the traffic in Chicago by visiting the Illinois D( Transportation (IDOT} Traffic Systems Center Detailed Expressway Cong (www.ai.eecs.uic.edu/GCM/CongestionMap.html). Updated every minute, IDOT's 1
with Ferris, Jake and Elwood 
will tell how long your drive might be and indicates places of heavy congestion l 
what to expect. By JASON HUGGINS But getting to Chicago is only half the fun. To lind out what to do with the othe World Wide Web Correspondent are hundreds of web sites you can visit dedicated to indexing the cooler parts of ( 
of these sites is "Biancago" (biancago.tezcat.com). According to Bianca, the web ~ "You won't lind any museum reviews or tourist sites here. Biancago is the real ( "It's 106 miles to Chicago, we've got a full tank of gas, half a pack-et of cigarettes, it's dark, Chicago you want to live in, not just visit: The neighborhood bars and clubs, the and we're wearing sunglasses. Hit it." stores, the tattoo parlors, the performance art theatres, the indie music and mov: 
Even though you might not have the same traveling habits as Jake and Elwood Blues, road part of Chicago you won't find on the corporate servers." trips to Chicago can be an exciting experience for many Domers. Armed with a computer and One the best places recommended by Bianca is "Brew and View.'' Where else Cl this article, you can plan (through the Internet, of course) an impressive itinerary for a day.trip two movies for $2.50 AND drink beer'! The real deal, however, is on Thursday r to Chicago. triple bill and .25 cent beers. 
"At least we're close to Chicago," is a common phrase we hear around campus; but how If you're the type that does want museum reviews and tourist sites, visit the Cit many people really know what to do once they get to the Windy City? This week's web site official "Chicago Mosaic Home Page'' {www.ci.chi.il.us). Here you can find then review will help. and phone number for almost all of the theatres. museums, and places to visit in 
First you need to know how to get there. By train, car, or bicycle you'll need directions to and area. If you're thrifty, don't forget to check out "What to do in Chicago c 
ACCENT
Tuesday, October 29, 1996 page 11 
fans in the '90s? 
can wear black ... and gold 
title three years in a row. trades and relocation. As the July trade deadline approached this past 
, alienating hordes of fans with the summer, Bell was mentioned in a possible trade to the San Diego , the Pirates are struggling to fill Padres that ultimately never materialized. At least until next season, ium. which they share with the Bell, his wife Laura, and their daughter Brianna and son Brantley will 
continue to call Pittsburgh "home." often resorts to gimmicks and "I love being in Pittsburgh," Bell says with a smile. "I have some head. great friends here, so along with the excitement about going to a team 
er. The that might have a chance to win, there's a down side to it too. If you do get traded, you want to go to a place that's winning. If I go some­where, I'm going to make the best of the situation, and I'll probably enjoy the places I'll go." 
Bell's crystal blue eyes light up as he reflects on his career, which has included time in the Cleveland Indians and Minnesota Twins orga­
nizations. · "This has been a terrific time. I've played base­ball since I was about six years old, and for the 
last 24 years, it's been a major part of my life. My wife enjoys the game, my kids have a great time coming to the ballpark...and whether it be here that I finish my career or whether it be somewhere else, I hope that I can do some pos­
itive things." Daddy might be a local hero, but Brianna and Brantley probably don't mind sharing 
their talented father with baseball fans. "My children are five and one, so they don't have a concept of 'the limelight' 
yet," Bell explains with a chuckle. "But one of the things that I hope I can exemplify to them is what my father exemplified to me. Make sure that you're humble, and that you lead a life that's pleas­
in~ to Christ. That's all I strive for. As for the many young fans who 
look up to Bell both on and off the dia­mond, Bell hopes that his life of faith and his positive deeds will set an encouraging example. Bell grew up overseas in a military family and never saw a big league game until he played in his first one. And while he didn't have a particular idol as a young boy, Bell says there are 
several players today that he admires both as col­leagues and friends. "[Pirates third baseman] Jeff King is certainly one of the 
people that I enjoy being around. He's not only my closest 
friend in baseball, but he's certainly one of the most humble peo­ple when it comes to the success he's had." In those respects, both humility and success, Bell and King seem to 
be soul mates. They are clearly respected by their teammates, as well as adored by Pittsburgh fans. Bell remains incredibly modest when it comes to discussing his accomplishments, and manages to downplay his role in the "spotlight," especially when it comes to his cherished personal life. And while he admits that winning another Gold Glove and batting .300 every year would be wonderful, his goal 
business side of baseball, then it's remains to serve as a team leader both on and off the field. favorite to fill the role of players' As six o'clock draws near, Jason Kendall, the Pirates' All-Star rookie was elected to be the league rep catcher, greets Bell on his way to the outfield. 
. Bell soon found himself and "They're callin' for ya, Jay!" reports Kendall, and indeed, a chorus battlefield of salary cap disputes of cheers erupts as Bell leans over to assess the crowd. He waves, and soon thereafter departs with several kind words and a firm handshake ssarily about individuals," says from the very hand that gracefully and masterfully turns double plays 
not only the whole at that period of on a daily basis. 
ad a responsibility to baseball as a The fans jostle each other and crane their necks in hopes of snap­to try and secure an agreement. ping a picture of their beloved shortstop as he makes his way out to , now that we look back, it was their awaiting smiles with an equally genuine one of his own. After 
we hurt the reputation of baseball all, pleasing his fans is a "responsibility," and one that he is only too something accomplished for a long happy to oblige. have to worry about this ... type of 
Photo and logo courtesy Pittsburgh Pirates Media Relations depart­
future." · 
ment--http://www.pirateball.com
Je sport when it comes to player 
The Art Institute of Chicago is a great road trip ~""'·~........-.1 tion. While you can't take a virtual tour of the museum through the web. you can museum hours and information about the latest exhibitions. 
Another great Chicago destination is the Second City Comedy Club (www.secondcity Second City is the home of some of the funniest young comedhms in the country. . page includes the complete playbill, show hours and prices, and .even includes Second City Aptitude Test," where you can lind out how Second City got its name~ · · 
Even though there are a million things to do in Chicago (and not enough time to do them.in) Ferris Bueller and his pals did not let that bother them. To iind out how F~rris, Cameron, . half, there Sloane did it all in one day, read "The Time Problem" ess:ay on the "Ferris Bueller's Day ~'"'·""~<:u. One Home Page" (www.dartmouth.edu/-buellerl). . · ·· 
s author. For an adventure, try to match what Ferris and friends did in only eight hours: 1} Go to :hicago! The top of the Sears Tower: 2) Visit the stock market; 3) Visit museum of art; 4) Lunch at second-hand Louis; 5) Catch (at least part of) a Cubs game; 6) Take part inparade. ~ stores; the 
) By the way, the home page of the original Chicago road trippers, Jake and Elwood Blues, the "alt.fan.bl ues-brothers FAQ" fwww.cs.monash.edu.au/~prlngle/bluesbros/faq watch Whether or not you're on a "mission from God," planning an action-packed trip to loe""'"••l'l"'·'"l 
, with a easy when you have an Internet connection. 
Chicago's Jason is a junior MIS major•from Thousand Oaks,CA. , address, Jason.R.Huggins. 3®nd. edu. downtown a Budget" 
oUJr ritJorlim.ate mafdo]t. Your best .Pvtm IJnU'I' nt~l'A.nt<o:' ma,y do.it... Get your 
r<>fiil"''hii:t to smoking! · 
ru......~.., .v.• •.c:>o.u•.,ricans .are on a ·daily basis. 
Many . . . . . are. doing so even though. they. realize the 
detrimental.effects that cigarette smoke has on the· body. 
What is even scarier isthat many Cigarette smokers 
nowadays are beginning. the ithabit. at a very· yo:ung. age, 
evenat 13 or 14; These. youngsters, along with many 
adultsmokers,are not fully aware of the adverse effects ··of Cigarette smoking. 
Smoking is the single largestpreventable cause of death 
and disability in theyruted States.. In fact, 1 in 6 deaths in 
th~ United States each year can beattributed to smoking. 
You may actually he surprise(} to learn that smoking kills more Americans each year than cocaine,~eroin, al<mhol; automobile accidents, homicide . and. suicide all combined, Furthermore, lung caneerhas.long been the number·• one cause. of cancer ;related deaths in men and what .is even nt?:re shocking is thatlung cancer has sur., oa1;sed breast cancer as the.)eading cancer killer of 
Ob'viOusl·vj ............".,..... smoking bas horrible.effetts on the P~rhilln~; t\;n, rA.R·,~on that cigarette smoke is that cigarettEJ' smoke cbemticzUSinc;hiditlg amounts of 
htngs, . ~. ~··......,,..,..... ev,entuallv become <imlcti.vec.iili.a after years .orren~eti1tive EvE,n,tually ·tar. begins to. build 'UP in . . lungs 
and damage$ . lung tissue. This .tar will in turn . lead.to lung cancer; . .. . ..·. .. . . · Further damage occurs to the human l:ungs by smoking 
when 1he alveoli are damaged; The alveoli are tiny sacs in the lungs whichaid in oxygen transport.. When damage occurs to.the. alveoli, ·the lungs are unable to transport adetfuate levels of oxygen to vital organs. 
In addition to contributing to lung cancer. smokingis suspected to cause 114 of all deaths .resulting from coro­nary artery db;ease, ~he third highest killer ill the United 
States. ··· · 'Se\le,ral· chemicals from cigarette smoke may harm the human cardiovascular system; 'For example, nicotine, an on the adrenal gl;1nds, thus causing'"'<>"'""'t" hQt·mones··whicll. increase botlr the blood 
to the hemoglobin ·in .the Coltte!>PoJndi.Jt1gl)(Stri{)s tb(l body of s<n:rie of its W.so believed to weaken 
·and ·s~i.entists beUevetha.t to dot: Re$(larchers claim sriltQkin,g c(]~ntJ'ill\Itels to· the buildup • of cholesterol in thole,stEir'ol . buildup then. results in •a ::il>letrtt$1:S believe that smokers are <>'>'t... t ..... risk ofh~vingastroke than 
" 
.... 
page 12 The Observer • SPORTS Tuesday, October 29, 1996 

Vikings fumble game away as Bears hang on 
ByRON LESKO 
Associated Press Writer 
MINNEAPOLIS 
All season, the Chicago Bears have found ways to lose. On Monday night, they watched the Minnesota Vikings do the same. 
After losing Robert Smith and Warren Moon, the Vikings lost the game 15-13. Walt .Harris blocked a field goal attempt with 3:47 to play, and Bryan Cox forced and recovered a fumble two minutes later as the Bears held on to beat slumping Minnesota. 
It was only. the second win for the Bears (3-5) since a season­opening victory over the defending Super Bowl champi­on Dallas Cowboys. 
"I don't know how we stack up against other teams in the league, but I do know that there's not any team in the league that plays harder than this group," said Chicago coach Dave Wannstedt, who won for the third time in his last four trips to the Metrodome. "This football team deserved to win this game." 
The battered Bears, who got a boost from the return of several injured players, built a 15-3 
.halftime lead behind Dave Krieg's passing and their first rushing touchdown of the sea­son, a 1-yard dive by Rashaan Salaam. They held the Vikings (5-3) to a franchise-worst 11 rushing yards, and they watched the Vikings bumble to their third loss in four games. 
Minnesota was penalized 12 times for 75 yards, had two kicks blocked, gave up five sacks and committed two turnovers, both of which proved costly. 
The first, Mark Carrier's div­ing interception of a Moon pass with 23 seconds left in the first half, led to the second of Jeff Jaeger's two field goals. 
The last, Cox's fumble recov­ery, ended Minnesota's last chance. 
. It was a costly loss for the 
Vikings because of the injuries and their second-half schedule, which includes Kansas City and Denver at home and Oakland, Detroit and Green Bay on the road. 
"It comes down to poise," said Qadry Ismail, who caught a 54-yard touchdown pass from )\1oon in the third quarter. "Unfortunately, we didn't have any." 
The Vikings lost Smith, the NFC's second-leading rusher, late in the first quarter with an injured left knee. With torn liga­ments, he might be done for the season. 
After Moon rallied the Vikings with 10 third-quarter points, he reinjured his right ankle when he was hit by Jim Flanigan while throwing an incompletion. 
Brad Johnson, who led the Vikings to a comeback win in the season-opener after Moon was hurt, came in to loud cheers with 11:58 left in the game and twice led Minnesota into scoring range. 
But Harris charged through virtually untouched "to block Scott Sisson's 48-yard field goal attempt. 
"I feel every time I have a chance," said Harris, a rookie. "I got a real good jump off the ball. I think (Sisson) took his time to make sure he made it." 
The Vikings defense, which played well in the second half, immediately got the ball back. John Randle stormed in to deflect a Krieg pass and backup defensive tackle Jason Fisk dove to intercept it at the Chicago 49. 
Johnson's 18-yard pass to Jake Reed gave Minnesota a first down at the Chicago 31. But on third-and-14 at the 35, Cox stripped a scrambling Johnson and pounced on the fumble. 
Johnson, who might find him­self in the middle of a quarter­back controversy after Minnesota's offense continued to sputter with Moon, complet­ed 10 of 15 passes for 79 yards. 
"Brad did a courageous job," said Vikings coach Dennis Green. "He tried to get us into the end zone. But we needed to score points, and we didn't." 
Although the Vikings got a career-high 11 catches for 153 yards from Reed, they managed only 11 rushing yards on 14 carries. Flanigan, one of the injured Bears making his return, had one of Chicago's five sacks along with his game­ending hit on Moon. 
Krieg, who took over for injured Erik Kramer four games ago and was playing eight days after his 38th birthday, was outstanding in the first half, completing 18 of 26 passes for 152 yards as the Bears built their surprising lead. 
Krieg was just 5-for-9 for 35 yards after halftime. Fortunately for the Bears, their defense stiffened when it had to. 
"This win does a lot for this team," Krieg said. "I think it's big." 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from· 8 a.m. 10 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. 10 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. 
Classifieds Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
VOLUNTEER CHESS COACH  Mountain Bike for sale. Paramount.  Help!! I need Rutgers GAs!!  Spring Break Bahamas Party  
NOTICES  NEEDED! ST. ANTHONY'S GRADE SCHOOL. 1 HOUR PER  FOR RENT  with Shimano components and many extras. $300 obo. 273-8112  Please call X3886.  Cruise! 6 Days $279! Includes All Meals, Free Parties, Taxes! Great  
WEEK AFTER 3:00PM.  ALUM NEEDS RUTGERS TIX  Beaches & Nightlife! Prices  
WANNA LAUGH? COME SEE ...  CONTACT: CHERYLKOVAS  90 VW JETTA BLACK 2DR SNRF  CALL 773-525-3170 W/BO  Increase Soon -Save $50! spring­ 
233-9155  FURNISHED!!, 1 BEDROOM APT,  5SPD MINT $6500 080 277-3569  breaktravel.com 1-800-678-6386  
COMEDIAN TAYLOR MASON  VERY CLEAN, All UTILITIES  NEED 3 RUTGERS GA's  
FRIDAY. NOVEMBER 1ST  Notre Dame students  INCLUDED. FREE CABLE, 3  MAC Centris 610, w/17"monitor,  Call Rob X3014  0 DISCOVER THE COPY SHOP 0  
8 P.M./ TIX $3.00 AT THE DOOR  PART-TIME WORK  MILES FROM CAMPUS, PRIVATE  laser printer, 14.4 modem, Excel,  in the LaFortune Student Center  
IN THE LIBRARY AUDITORIUM!  $1 0.25/starting  ENTRANCE, CALL AFTER 5PM.  Word, Games, GMAT. $1350, Call  NEED 5 GA'S FOR PITT  Mon. 7:30am -Midnight  
SPONSORED BY SUB-WHERE  Flexible hours around classes.  232-0355  Joe K. (NO '95)@ (312)649-1365.  CHRIS X3046  Tues. 7:30am -Midnight  
FANTASIES ARE A WAY OF LIFE!  Scholarships/Internships available ..  Will deliver.  Wed. 7:30am -Midnight  
Eve. and wknd. hours available.  WALK TO CAMPUS  n. d. tickets for sale  Thur. 7:30am -Midnight  
SPRING BREAK Travel Free  Transportation necesary.  2-3-4-5 BEDROOM HOMES  271 1635  Fri. 7:30am -7:00pm  
Organize a Small Group Earn $$$ Cancun Jamaica Bahamas  For details call 282-2357  232-2595  TICKETS  NOTRE DAME GA'S WANTED  Sat. Noon -6:00pm Sun. Noon -Midnight  
Package includes 2 meals + 3hrs.  INTERNS WANTED I I I  BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY  All GAMES HOME  (closed home football Saturdays)  
all-u-can drink daily. Don Surf &  MIS I BUSINESS I COMP SCI/  Private Homes for Football,  NOTRE DAME GA'S WANTED  AND AWAY  
Sun (800)763-5606.  MARKETING I CAP I ART MAJORs  JPW, Graduation, etc.  All GAMES HOME  232-0058  TIM CORBITT IS THE COOLEST,  
21!;1-291-7153  AND AWAY  24 HAS.  PART! EST GUY EVER TO LIVE IN  
THAT PRETTY PLACE, Bed and  Shamrock Network Design is look­ 232-0058  BUY -SELL -TRADE  LAFAYETTE  
Breakfast Inn has space available  ing for INTERNS interested in  24 HAS.  
for football wknds. 5 Rooms with  learning more about Internet  BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY ..  BUY • SELL -TRADE  TICKET-MART. INC.  Cancun & Jamaica Spring Break  
private baths. $70 -$90,  Marketing. SND is owned & run by  private homes for football, JPW,  Specials! 7 Nights Air & Hotel From  
Middlebury, 30 miles from campus.  NO Alumni & provides computer &  graduation, etc. 219-291-7153  TICKET-MART, INC.  WANTED: NOTRE DAME GA'S  South Bend $419! Increase. Soon ­ 
Toll Road, Exit #107,  marketing services for several large  ANY/All GAMES. PLEASE CALL  Save $50! Save $150 On Food,  
1-800-418-9487  corporations.  HOUSING AVAILABLE NOW &  WANTED: NOTRE DAME GA'S  232-0061.  Drinks! 111% Lowest Price  
Call: Paul or Tucker at 234-2211  FOR '97-98 SCHOOL YR.  ANY/ALL GAMES. PLEASE CALL  Guarantee! springbreaktravel.com  
Spring Break Bahamas Party  Email: Paul@snd.com  2-10 STUDENTS. CLOSE TO  232-0061.  $$$$$$  1-800-678-6386  
Cruise! 6 Days $2791 Includes All  CAMPUS.  I NEED GA OR FACULTY TIXS  
Meals, Free Parties. Taxes! Great  DOMUS PROPERTIES -KRAMER  BUYING G.A.'S FOOTBALL  All HOME GAMES.  Hey Jen Weber  
Beaches & Nightlife! Prices  NOW IS THE TIME TO CALL  674-2571.  312.404.4903  272-6551  What a birthday, it is about time you  
Increase Soon-Save $50! spring­ LEISURE TOURS AND GET FREE  turned 21. How many shots  
break1ravel.com 1-800-678-6386  INFORMATION FOR SPRING  ROOMMATE NEEDED, SUPER  FOR SALE.2 GA's All HOME  NEED 2-4 GA TIX  did you do? I guess you are a true  
BREAK PACKAGES TO SOUTH  RIVERFRONT HOME, $350 STU­ GAMES 235-3394  All HOME GAMES.  gambler now. Well its over, just  
Cancun & Jamaica Spring Break  PADRE, CANCUN. JAMAICA AND  DENT OR PROFESSIONAL; 683­ CALL276-2010/288·2877 AFT 5  wait til next year!!  
Specials! 7 Nights Air & Hotel From  FLORIDA. REPS NEEDED ...TRAV­ 3720 DAYS  N.D. Football tickets bought & sold.  
South Bend $419! Prices Increase  El FREE AND EARN COMMIS­ 219-232-2378 a.m.  GA Football Tix -Buy/Sell  LINE DANCING TONIGHT IN  
Soon-Save $50! Save $150 on  SIONS. 800-838-8203  288-2726 p.m.  Rutgers tickets  LAFORTUNE BALLROOM FROM  
Food. Drinksl111% Lowest Price  THE PRIMROSE PATH B&B, locat­ 67 4-7645 -No student or student  6:00-8:00 PM WITH THE BALL­ 
Guarantee! springbreaktravel.com  ed 20 minutes north of campus, is a  STUDENT FOOTBALL TIX FOR  conv.  ROOM DANCE CLUB. $3 FOR  
1-800-678-6386  HUGE NO FAN DESPERATE FOR  1905 Victorian with 4 quiet guest  SALE ·All GAMES!!!  NON-MEMBERS, MEMBERS ARE  
5 GAs FOR RUTGERS. CALL PAT  rooms. Bountiful full breakfasts.  call James X1658  NEED WASHINGTON TICKETS •  FREE!  
Spring Break Panama City!  (813)360-2243.  "Michiana Now!" Reader's choice  HAVE AF, PITT, RUTGERS TICK­ 
Boardwalk Beach Resort! Best  as one of  FOR SALE AIRFORCE PITT  ETS TO TRADE. CALL WORK  Come see Doug McKenna  
Hotel, Location, Pricel7 Nights  Hundereds of Students Are Earning  "Michiana's Best of 1996".  AND RUTGERS GAs FOR  601-893-5352 OR HOME 901-755­ of George and the Freeks  
$1291 Day1ona-Best location $1391  Free Spring Break Trips & Money!  http://www.laketolake.com/inns/prim  SALE 272-7233•••••••••••  4273  every Wednesday night  
Cocoa Beach Hilton $1691 spring­ Sell 8 Trips & Go Freel Bahamas  rosepathldirectorypage  at C.J.'s Pub.  
breaklravel.com 1-800-678-6386  Cruise $279, Cancun & Jamaica  616-695-6321  TIX for every home game.  NEED BC & WASH TIX  
$399, Panama City/Day1ona $119!  Call (301) 445-3955  312-951-5008  ·HOCKEY PLAYERS LOOK­ 
Home Health Care Nurse Available  www.springbreaktravel.com  ROOMS IN PRIVATE HOME FOR  Any off-campus person  
Days or Evenings. Call 236-9522. ILOST & FOUND I  1-800-678-6386 YOUR LOVING CARE, 3 LOVING  ND-SMC. EVENTS. IDEAL FOR FOOTBALL WEEK­ENDS. VERY CLOSE TO CAMPUS.  NEED BCTIXI As many as possible  NEED 2 RUTGERS TIX Call Pat X3015 Desperate for RUTGERS Tix. Call  interested in playing off-campus lnterhall HOCKEY should call: Chuck @ 243-9315 or Kevin and Rix @ 273-5928  
KIDS, MY HOME,  243-0658.  CALL ANYTIME: 4-1382  ROB @634·0552.  -HOCKEY PLAYERS LOOK­ 
LOST: Green Eddie Bauer Jacket.  M,W AFTERNOONS, GOOD$.  or (617) 828-1089  
Size XL Tall. If found, please call X2079. Thanks.  277-9079  FOR SALE  NEED 2 GAs-ANY HOME GAME. NEED AT LEAST 10 DAYS  Hey GH or George Holloway what did you profess about Braves domi­ 
Participants needed for studies in  NOTICE. CALL COLLECT: PEG  nation? If you could repeat what  
~  -4  LOST: PAIR OF PRESCRIPTION  memory, language, & perception.  1985 Subaru Gl4-door, manual  I NEED RUTGERS GA'S  McDERMOTT 410/965-7732  you wrote before F'all Break it would  
I I I I I  GUESS GLASSES ON WAY FROM D6 LOT TO KEOUGH HALL. THEY ARE IN A GRAY CASE. IF FOUND CALL JOHN @4-4113. $$REWARD$$  call Dr. Radvansky at 631-6473 VOLUNTEER GIRLS VOLLEYBALL COACH Starting immediately 5th-6th grade/Our lady of Hungary  transmission, AC, cassette with AM-FM radio, $1200. Call x18120. COMPUTER, IBM PS/1, 486SX2 50 MHZ, 8 MB RAM, 253 MB  CALL KATIE 243-9038 ••••• NAVY GAME TIXS ••••• Selling 4 GA tixs.  AFTER 4pm. Beer, Money, and Lavish Praise in exchange for 3 tix to Rutgers. 508­339-7497  be helpful. New Daytime Hours Starting Mon. , Oct. 28 9:00 am -4:30 pm Alumni Senior Club  
I  School. South Bend  HARD DISK, 3.5" DISK DRIVE, 14"  Call x1453 ask for Patrick  NEED 2 GAs for Rutgers  
FOUND:  Call Sue Mason 289-3272  COLOR MONITOR, WINDOWS  Alyssa 271-984 7  The best TEAM in the best SPORT  
LARGE AMBER CLIP EARRING.  (daytime), 234-3750 (evenings).  FOR WORK GROUPS, PANASON­ $$$$  in the world just brought home their  
CALL DOROTHY 272-2136.  SPRING BREAK  IC KX-P 1124 24 PIN DOT MATRIX PRINTER.  NEED 4 PITT GA  PERSONAL  24th World Championship. "Start spreadin' the news..."  
WANTED  Cancun, Mazatlan From $399 Lowest price guaranteed I  $500. 273-0959  288-9102  COLOR COPIES ON CAMPUS!  YEAH YANKEES!!! The Braves were just a fad.  
Sell 15 trips and travel free +cash!  $$$$  COLOR COPIES ON CAMPUS!  
Earn MONEY and FREE TRIPS!!  Call Sunbreaks 1-800-446-8355  COMPUTER, GATEWAY 486DX2  COLOR COPIES ON CAMPUS!  PLEASE I Stop the Chopl  
Absolute Best SPRING BREAK  66MHZ, 16MB RAM, 1.2GB  I@ #$0/oi'&"())(W'%$#@ I  The highest quality full-color  It's worn out its welcome.  
'  ,  Packages available!!  Babysitter needed during Bible  TOTAL HARD DRIVE CAPACITY,  I NEED PITT TICKETS!!!  copies are now available at  And, besides; it's a Florida State  
INDIVIDUALS, student ORGANIZA·  Study at Sunnyside Church: 115 S.  3.5" DISK DRIVE, 5.25" DISK  Perferably Stud Tkt. Converted to  THE COPY SHOP  thing. Ew.  
TIONS, or small GROUPS wanted!!  Frances St, S.Bend. The 4th  DRIVE, 4X CD ROM DRIVE, 28.8  GA...  LaFortune Student Center  
Call INTER-CAMPUS PROGRAMS  Thursday of every month, from  MODEM, 15" COLOR MONITOR,  CALL4-4217...  Phone #631-COPY  Holloway, you owe me 20 bucks.  
at  8:30-11 :30a.m. $5/hr; transportation  FULL TOWER CASE, 2MB SVGA  J@#$%A&•())(•&A%$#@f  
1-800-327-6013  provided. Call Christine at 287­·  CARD, WINDOWS 95. $1,000.  ..... STRUTING THE PANTS ALL  Wake up, Koch. Welcome beck :)  
or http://www.icpt.com  4296.  273-0959  STUD TIX 4 SALE X14131  THE WAY TO PA..  


Tuesday, October 29, 1996 The Observer • SPORTS page 13 
• MAJOR lEAGUE BASEBAll 
Sierra dealt to Cincinnati Celebration planned 
By JOE KAY 
Assocaited Press Writer 
CINCINNATI 
Ruben Sierra, a key figure in the trade that sent Cecil Fielder to the New York Yankees, went to his third team of the year Monday when the Cincinnati Reds acquired him to bat cleanup. 
The Reds sent two low-level minor leaguers to the Detroit Tigers for Sierra, 31, who hit 12 homers and drove in 7 2 runs for the Yankees and Tigers last season. 
The Tigers agreed to pay most of Sierra's $5.5 million salary for 1997, the final year on his five-year contract. The Tigers will pick up $4.875 mil­lion, leaving the Reds to pay $625,000. 
The Reds gave up outfielder Decomba Conner, 23, who hit .281 for Class A Winston-Salem last year, and right-handed pitcher Ben Bailey, 22, who was 10-11 last year with Winston-Salem and Charleston. 
The Yankees gave up on Sierra last July, sending him to the Tigers for Fielder along with minor-league pitcher Matt Drews and $1 million. Yankees manager Joe Torre said at the time that Sierra, 31, simply wasn't hitting enough homers -11 in 98 games. · 
Reds general manager Jim Bowden said Sierra, a switch­hitter with 232 homers in 11 seasons in the American League, fit the Reds' need for a reasonably priced cleanup hit­ter. 
"I've always liked reclama­tion projects. I consider him a little bit of one," Bowden said. 
The Reds lacked a proven cleanup hitter last season. They could not afford to keep Ron Gant after the 1995 season, and Reggie Sanders missed half of the 1996 season because of injuries. Cincinnati got Kevin Mitchell from Boston in a trade last July, but he went AWOL during the final road trip and was suspended the rest of the season. Mitchell is a free agent. 
Cincinnati expects to trim its payroll to around $32 million next year, down from $38.5 million on opening day this 

$13.99 CD 
$13.99 CD 
year. Bowden is still looking to acquire starting pitchers. 
for pinstriped champs 
If Sierra doesn't work out in a starting role, he will be an af­fordable backup, Bowden said. By RAYNER PIKE fans, including Pee Wee 
"There's very little downside Associated Press Writer Scheidt, who was first on line to this deal," Bowden said. for playoff tickets, and Freddy NEW YORK "The Fan" Schuman, a pot­
Sierra played for Texas from After 18 years, the New York banging regular in the upper1988-92 before being traded to Yankees will hear the roaring deck at Yankee Stadium. 
Oakland as part of the deal for Jose Canseco. He went to the echoes in the "Canyon of When the procession reaches Yankees for Danny Tartabull in Heroes" on Tuesday when City Hall, Giuliani said each 
baseball's newest champions Yankee will receive his own
July 1995. 
Sierra has averaged 21 receive the city's trademark key to the city, the same as homage, a ticker-tape parade. with the Rangers, hockey's
homers and 93 RBis during his Mayor Rudolph Giuliani, a Stanley Cup winners, two years career. He hit a career-high 30 
lifelong Yankees fan, said he ago.
homers for Texas in 1987 and drove in 119 runs in 1989. was aiming to throw "the "And very appropriately, 
biggest parade in the history of each one of them deserves a
Sierra hit .258 with 11 
homers and 52 RBis in 96 the city." With pleasant weath­key to the city because this was games for the Yankees and er predicted and the mayor's a team victory. Everybody con­people counting the crowd, it tributed," Giuliani said . 
. 222 with one homer and 20 
could turn out to be just that.
RBis in 46 games for Detroit. Giuliani talked about having 
Bowden thinks Sierra struggled When the 1978 Yankees got 3 million people, enough to fill their ride up Broadway, short­Yankee Stadium 53 times,
in New York because he wasn't 
playing every day. stop Bucky Dent was the focal along a parade route of just point of cheers. In this parade, under a mile.
"It was kind of tough to get the Yankee relief pitchers will Extravagant crowd estimatesthe playing time he was used 
to," Bowden said. "I don't have the most eye-catching have been a staple of past pa­transportation -a vintage fire rades, with the most out­
think there's any question that 
a guy who has 11 homers at truck. landish, 4. 7 million, put forth the halfway point still has Also among the floats for the for the Gulf War welcome rest of the team members will home of 1991.
power." 
be one for special Yankees Another measure of success has been the tonnage of confet­
ti cleaned up after the parade. The heaviest paper storm, more than 1,200 tons, fell on the American hostages re­turned from Iran in 1981. 
The Gulf War parade was the last in which actual ticker-tape fell. Two hundred miles of the thin paper ribbon that used to spout from old-time stock-quo­tation printers were specially purchased for the parade. For years now, the paper blizzard has consisted of shredded tele­phone books, computer print­outs and toilet paper. 
The Yankees parade will be the fourth of the 1990s, follow­ing the Rangers, the Gulf War vets and Nelson Mandela in 1990. 
Ticker-tape parades date from early in the century, but became an institution with the lionizing of aviator Charles 
Lindbergh in 1927. The honor has been extended frequently to pioneering avia­
Plus, we ha·ve loaded 
tors, from Amelia Earhart and Douglas "Wrong Way" Corrigan in the 1920s and
in hundre~ds of CD 
1930s to astronauts John Glenn, Gordon Cooper, Neil Armstrong, Buzz Aldrin and
titles pric1ed from 
Michael Collins in the 1960s. 
$5.99 to $9.99 each. Check out 4lUr selec­tion filled lvith great artists and. some of their finest work. 
page 14 

Jets get one for the win column 
By BARRY WILNER game, and I'll put my foot itt Associated Press Writer my mouth again and say we're going to win some 
HEMPSTEAD, N.Y. more." ... 
The New York Jets went Perhaps. But beating:the out to Arizona and blew it. Cardinals doesn't make you a They won. playoff contender; OJ;' even a 
Obviously, this team has no favorite to win again; Pa.rtf¢": sense of histor.y. Now, the ularly against a diffic~lt worst the Jets can do is 1-15, schedule; the reri),11in~ng and that's been done before. seven opponents have a ·t();tn~ 
Not that they wanted to be bined recordof30·18. .)liN the first NFL team to. run the The Jets have improved'thf> table or, rather, be run over last three weeks. losing· close for a full 16-game season. games to Jacksonvme·and They'll leave that opportunity Buffalo before finally break-' for the Atlanta Falcons. ing through. Of course, after 
"It's a relief," said Adrian management committed Murrell. the main hero of more than $80 million in New York's 31-21 victory at long-term contracts in the Arizona that ended a 12-offseason, 8~1. not 1·8, would game slide, eight of the losses be more in line with expecta,. this season. Murrell rushed tions. for a team-record 199 yards, But these are the Jets,' of including a 78-yarder that course. And their litany of clinched the team's first win failure for the last 2 1/2 since just after last decades makes any victory Thanksgiving. tasty. Particularly in the 
"It's a relief." Murrell re­1990s, when they are 36-69. peated, "because people "We've been through so were thinking we'd go 0-16. much adversity," veteran But we knew that wasn't safety Lonnie Young said, going to happen." "that we've learned how to 
To their credit. despite all handle it." the underachievement and And actually getting to talk injuries and poor coaching, about a win was fun for them the Jets have stuck together. Monday. Having a bye this When victory finally came, week allows them to savor they were thinking in terms the victory even more. of how it helps for the future And, as Murrell indicated, rather than how it reminds be expects it to be a spring· people of how pitiful the team board for the rest of the year. was for two months. "lt's a big boost for. this 
"This win should have a team and for its morale," domino effect for us," said Murrell, who has 744 Murrell said. yards rushing, third in the 
"I said we weren't going to AFC. "We showed we can go 0-16," added Keyshawn stick it out and keep plugging Johnson. the top pick in this with the mentality to stay in a year's draft whose enthusi­game. We showed it early on, asm and improving play have but blew some games. This been bright spots in a dismal time, we stayed rightin there season. "We finally won a and won the game." · 
-· ----~---~~-~--­
The Observer • SPORTS Tuesday, October 29, 1996 
Controversy surrounds Fontes 
By HARRY ATKINS 
Associated Press Writer 
PONTIAC, Mich. 
One day after perhaps the 
biggest coaching blunder of his 
career, Wayne Fontes had dam­
age control operating in high 
gear. 
Fontes, in danger of losing the confidence of his quarterback, the loyalty of his team and maybe, his job -spent a lot of time explaining and apologizing to Scott Mitchell and the Detroit Lions on Monday. 
This latest controversy stemmed from an incident in the second quarter of Sunday's surprising 35-7 loss to the New York Giants. 
Mitchell had already thrown three interceptions. Fontes had backup Don Majkowski warned up and ready to go. But he didn't make the switch on a change of possession. 
Instead, he let Mitchell begin a series. Mitchell threw an in­complete pass on the first snap, then Fontes sent in Majkowski. That gave the 63,501 fans who booed Mitchell when he took the field a chance to cheer and jeer as he made the long trek to the sidelines. 
After he had time to think about it, Fontes apparently realized his mistake. 
"I have no regrets about tak­ing him out of the game. None whatsoever," Fontes said. "What I do regret is taking him out when I did. I've never blamed or put a finger on one player. And I realize now it might have seemed like I was doing that to Scott." 
Fontes sent word around the Silverdome he wanted to know when Mitchell arrived, so he could go to the locker room and talk with him. He needn't have bothered. Mitchell made a bee­line for the coach's office the minute he arrived. 
jOIN THE CAMPUS BIBLE STUDY (CBS) 
Sponsored by All students invited to attend The Office ofCampus Ministry Inter-Faith Bible Study 
"He sat down and we had a great meeting," Fontes said. "We talked like two civilized people. It was a great conver­sation. I told him it probably embarrassed him, and I apolo­gized for doing that." 
Fontes said he and Mitchell shook hands and parted amica­bly. Mitchell, who made it a point to hang around and speak with reporters after the game, did not appear in the dressing room while it was open to re­porters on Monday. 
Several other players, how­ever, confirmed that Fontes apologized to the. whole team during a morning meeting. There also was a meeting be­tween the coaching staff and a committee of veteran players to iron out some problems. 
So, what happens now? 
The Lions are 4-4 halfway through the season. They are 1 1/2 games behind Green Bay in the NFC Central, with two games against the Packers ahead, starting with Sunday's game at Lambeau Field. 
There also are trips to Chicago, San Diego and San Francisco. The Lions have lost 11 of their last 12 on the West 
ASaint Mary's College I John M. Duggan Series Event 
Huv~ ~wt:' 
The Delany Sisters' First 100 Years 
Friday, November 1 8 PM O'Laughlin Auditorium \ ·il""':.,.,....~-. 
Provocative and entertaining ...a dramatic experience to be shared with the entire family. 
Tickets*: Students: $5; Adults: $18; on sale at the Saint Mary's College Box Office in O'Laughlin Auditorium, 
9am-Spm, Monday-Friday Saint Mary's College Credit card orders accepted by M O~AU 4~~~ phone at 219/284-4626 c·c:: ·r"E,'D 
'discounts for senior cttizens. C, • J SMC/ND commumly andgroups FOR T flE ARTS 

Coast, meaning their chances of 
making the playoffs are remote, 
at best. 
"We are better than we've played in the last two weeks," defensive tackle Henry Thomas said. "I hope everybody under­stands that. Why should things be changed? We know we have a great team. There's no sense in tearing things apart." 
Not all the players shared Thomas' enthusiasm, however. Immediately after Sunday's game, wide receiver IIerman Moore said he was sick of the trauma. 
"It's just not fun anymore," he said. "It's embarrassing. It goes beyond embarrassing." 
A day later, Moore wasn't backing off. He had, however. cooled down. 
"I said some things yesterday. I'm not sorry about that," Moore said. "I don't think I crossed any lines." 
''I'm sure it doesn't so much shake his confidence as it does make him wonder if he has the backing of the coaches," Moore said. "Scott is still here. His mindset is still winning. I think he still has as much confidence as ever." 

Every Tuesday 7:00p.m. 
~~tompHifh~~ 
Office of Campus Ministry 

• 
Conference Room -Badin Hall 
One Hour Sessions Bring Your Own Bible 
Attend the 
DYNAMIC INTERVIEWING 
Directed by: Rev. AI D'Alonzo, CSC 
Workshop! 
For additional information call: 
Presented by: Olivia Williams, Assistant Director Career & Placement Services
631-5955 631-5242 
When: Tuesday, October 29, 1996 Where: DeBartolo Hall -Room 209 
Sessions now in progress 
Time: 4:00 -5:30 p.m. 

You are most welcome! 
Conducted by: 
Ms. Christine Derwent-Junior Achievement 

Tuesday, October 29, 1996 The Observer • SPORTS page 15 
• COllEGE fOOTBAll 


look for the Following Events: 
'tt;~ 
October 28th-November 1 st Media Campaign-Daily Ads in The Observer Posters in The Residence Halls And Academic Buildings 
October 29th 
Magic And Mind Games Presentation Come And Be Amazed At john Fabjance, Master Magician and Pick Pocketer 
7:00 p.m. Washington Hadl (Look For A Preview Of The Magic Man In The Dining Halls) 
October 31st 
Trick or Treat!! Free Candy and Other Giveaways At An Info Booth In The Huddle Stop By And Chat With The Peer Education Tearn and Staff Members Of The Office Of Alcohol And Drug Education 
These Activities Are Open ·To All Faculty, Staff and Students 
Care About Yourself And Others!!!! C'aJ:"-e 

/J1uch ;bout If, "-'h ou are en and h 
golngt ow 
Sponsored by the Office of Alcohol and Drug Education °drink. 
page 16 The Observer • SPORTS Tuesday, October 29, 1996 

Aging Bulls look to repeat Injuries plague Pacers 
By MIKE NADEL ond book. "You can forget about 70 
as season approaches
Associated Press Writer Jackson has a new one-year wins right now," Rodman said. 
CHICAGO The Chicago Bulls won't win 72 games again. 
They're too old, too brittle and, apparently, too disinter­ested to have the kind of sensa­tional start that carried them to their history-making 1995-96 season. 
"Being that we've had some injuries and some surgeries and we haven't had time to practice together as a unit, it seems we were made to get off to a slow start," Michael Jordan said. "And that's not so bad -as long as we finish strong. 
"It's going to take away some expectations, but I like to think that this team is mature, that we're not going to try to live up to the expectations of others, anyway. We're going to play our style, and hopefully end up with a championship." 
Last season, led by the magi­cal Jordan, the maniacal Dennis Rodman and the mag­nificent Scottie Pippen, the Bulls won 41 of their first 44 games. 
They finished 72-10, becom­ing the first NBA team ever to reach the 70-win mark, and then rolled through the playoffs for their fourth championship of the 1990s. 
Jordan, driven to show that he could dominate in his first full season after coming out of retirement, won his eighth NBA scoring title and fourth MVP award. 
Rodman, determined to prove he could be more of a boon than a distraction after two dif­ficult years in San Antonio, captured his fifth straight rebounding crown. Pippen was a first-team All-Star. Toni Kukoc was the league's best non-starter and Phil Jackson was the NBA's top coach. 
Although they're all back, "the urgency's not there, the intensity, the desperation," Jackson said. 
Jordan has a $30 million con­tract and Rodman signed for $9 million. Both have movies com­ing out soon -Jordan sharing the silver screen with Bugs Bunny, Rodman with Jean­Claude VanDamme. 
Rodman also is hosting an MTV show and writing a sec-contract and talks fondly of re­tiring to Montana in the not­too-distant future. · 
Pippen, Ron Harper and Luc Longley each had offseason surgery. Pippen, one of basket­ball's best all-around players, was questionable for the Nov. 1 opener. 
"A year ago, we were trying to establish ourselves. Michael and Dennis were really trying to reassert themselV<es. It would be inhuman for us to have the same intensity now," backup guard Steve Kerr said. "The entire focus of this season is to be healthy and strong down the stretch. If we struggle a little early, that's the way it's got to be." 
But will the Bulls be able to muster enough energy next spring, when the games count? 
Already the league's oldest team, their only offseason ac­quisition was 43-year-old back­up center Robert Parish. 
By the time the playoffs get rolling, Rodman will be 36, Jordan 34, Bill Wennington 34, Harper 33, Pippen 31 and Kerr 31. 
"We're definitely an old team," Harper said. "But I think you'll see us outsmart teams when it really matters." 
Said Jordan: "We'll have some disadvantages, where younger teams run right past us. That's why the mental thing becomes so important." 
To a man, the Bulls insist that matching or surpassing last season's victory total isn't a goal. 
"Totally unrealistic," Pippen said. 
"If we win 60-something or 50-something games but go on to win the title," Jordan said, "I won't think of it as any less of an achievement." 
Already, the Bulls have had some controversy. Rodman, who injured his hamstring, de­cided not to show up for a pre­season game. Jackson was up­set that he didn't hear from Rodman, who apparently re­ceived clearance from general manager Jerry Krause to stay away. 
Though a seemingly minor matter, it was yet another in­stance of Rodman putting him­self before the team. 
The Spurs, who dealt the flamboyant forward to Chicago before last season, contended Rodman's selfishness killed their title chances. 
Aside from a referee­headbutting incident, Rodman was relatively well-behaved last season as he chased a title and a big contract. But now that he's got his $9 million and has said he's quitting after the sea­son, what motivation does Rodman have to act with civili­ty in 1996-97? 
"Everybody is waiting for me to (mess) up, just like they did last year," he said. "But I still want one more ring." 
One more ring for Rodman. One for the thumb for Jordan, Pippen and Jackson, the lone remnants from the Bulls' 1991­93 championship run. 
And then? 
This space is for you! Stop by the Club Council to take advantage of your free advertising space in this 
column. 
Stop by our 2nd floor LaFortune office to see what the Club Council has to offer you and your organization! 
By HANK LOWENKRON 
Associated Press W rirer 
INDIANAPOLIS It's only October, and already the Indiana Pacers are hurting. 
Rik Smits, who had surgery on his feet last month, still isn't practicing, and first-round draft pick Erick Dampier is recu­perating from a hernia opera­tion. 
That leaves coach Larry Brown with a big question mark as the Pacers head into the start of the NBA season. 
On top of that, with the trade of Mark Jackson, the likely starter at point guard is Travis Best, an inexperienced second­year player. 
''I'd say we're ready," said Best, who played in 59 games and averaged 3.7 points as a rookie. "There's always going to be flaws in what we're doing out there.... Guys are working hard, that's all you can ask." 
Best scored 58 points in the preseason with 24 assists and just 16 turnovers in 55 minutes. 
"I feel comfortable, and I think everybody does," he said. "I believe I've earned the start­ing job .... Everybody is touch­ing the ball more and that's what scores the points. Defensively, we've been playing very well." 
Indiana won a franchise­record 52 games in 1994-95 and matched that number last year. Then in the offseason, the Pacers spent millions to re-sign unrestricted free agents Reggie Miller, Dale Davis and Antonio Davis. 
The major roster change was the trade of Jackson and Ricky Pierce to Denver for Jalen Rose, Reggie Williams and a first­round draft pick that was used to select Dampier. 
But the injuries have compli­cated things. Smits is still recu­perating from the Sept. 8 surgery; Dampier, who was fill­ing in for him, had surgery last week and both he and Smits may start the season on the in­jured list. 
Veteran Eddie Johnson, who had knee surgery in May, doesn't plan to practice until December. 
Duane Ferrell is also likely to be unavailable at the start of the season with a torn right calf muscle, and Williams has been bothered by a sore right leg. 
When the Pacers open Friday night at Detroit, the probable starters are Antonio Davis at center, Dale Davis and Derrick McKey at forward and Best and Miller in the backcourt. 
Think ofus 
as your scHool bus. 
. semester breaks or heading home for your SISter's wedding, if going home means catching a plane at Midway or O'Hare, the best way to the airport is United Limo. 
~--.... Frequent service, all day from campus gets you there on schedule. And when it's time to hit the books again, we'll pick you up at the airport and bring you back to schooL No hassles, no problems. 
For information and schedule consul! your travel agent or call 
800-833-5555 
I I~ITI=n II~A()
Vi ~i i i..i...i' i-ii i i'V' 
Your Airport Connection, O'Hare & Midway, All Day... Every Day 
CANDAX McNAIR PROGRAM 
Organizational Meeting with DR. MARIO BORELLI DIRECTOR, CANDAX 
WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 30, 1996 7:00P.M. ROOM 141 DE BARTOLO 
FOR STUDENTS I NTERESTED IN GRADUATE STUDIES 
WHO ARE EITHER FIRST GENERATION COLLEGE STUDENTS ON FINANCIAL AID OR FROM UNDERREPRESENTED GROUPS 
All INTERESTED STUDENTS ARE WELCOME REFRESHMENTS AFTER TilE MEETING AT 8:00P.M. 
---~----­

Big East 
continued from page 20 
made three save to prevent Rutgers from gaining the early advantage. However, just 43 seconds into the second half, Scarlet Knights forward Michael Shaw beat Velho with one of his four shots in the game. 
Despite going on to outshoot Rutgers 6-3 in the second half, the Irish were unable to beat goalie Jonathan Conway and Rutgers escaped with the 1-0 win. 
From New Jersey, Notre Dame traveled across the Delaware River to Villanova. for a contest that appeared to offer the Irish a break before they faced rival Georgetown. The Wildcats had something else in mind. 
Paul Miraggia beat Velho just three minutes into the match and fellow midfielder Mike Paskey tallied just 17 minutes later on an assist from Miraggia. 
The 2-0 Villanova lead stood until the 88:30 mark of the game, when junior Ryan Turner scored an unassisted goal for the Irish on his fifth shot of the game. 
Notre Dame finished the con­test with 18 shots on goal to the Wildcats' 10, but dropped their second straight game by the score of 2-1. 
Needless to say, things were not looking well when Georgetown opened up the scoring in the third and final game of Notre Dame's East Coast trip. 
However, Bill Savarino evened the score about five minutes into the second half on an assist from midfielder Joe Gallo. The game was then forced into overtime as neither team could break. the tie before the 90:00 mark. 
Two minutes into the second half of the extra session, a fa­miliar hero stepped up for the Irish. Once again, senior cap­tain Tony Capasso registered a game-winning goal and Notre Dame salvaged a 2-1 victory to move back up into second place in the Big East. The goal, assisted by fellow senior Konstantin Koloskov, was Capasso's seventh of the year. He leads the team in scoring with 20 points. 
The Irish are now 10-4-2 overall and 6-2-2 in the conference, with one Big East match remaining at Boston College. The Irish will close out their home schedule on Thursday against defending national champion Wisconsin. 
jPiease Recycle The Observer j 

TONIGHT! TONIGHT! TONIGHT! 
Ma~c and Mind 
Garnes!!!! 
John Fabjance will mess with your mind AND your valuables (beware he's also a pickpocket) ... 
Tuesday, October 29 Washington Hall 7:00pm Sponsored by: Office of Alcohol and Drug Education 
Hawaii 
continued from page 20 
saw one of NO's worst serving matches of the year. The Irish shot themselves in the foot at the service line, usually a strength for the team. They had only five aces as opposed to 16 service errors. 
"We didn't execute in any as­pect of the game," Brown sim­ply stated. "We had a lot of service errors and not many aces and we dug a big hole for ourselves." 
In addition to the problems at the service line the team committed 38 hitting errors as well as a season high eight ball handling errors, four by the setter, May. 
With the opportunity that lay ahead in the Pacific, one could understand if the team was looking ahead, but apparently that wasn't the case. 
"I don't think we were look­ing ahead. We just didn't play very well," Brown explained. "I'd almost feel better if we were looking ahead, but we were playing hard and .we just haven't been able to get into a rhythm since really the whole season." 
The netters have stared ad­versity in the eye for practical­ly the entire season as injuries have plagued the team. Outside hitter Angie Harris is still not a .hundred percent after her knee surgery in the off-season and May is just get­ting back into things as a dislo­cated shoulder has kept her sidelined the entire year. 
The team was ranked sixth to start the season and filled with potential, but has failed to beat a ranked team and has dropped several matches to unranked opponents. The Irish were talking Final Four possibilities and may now find themselves slipping out of the top 25. Coach Brown dis­cussed what it would take for this squad to turn things around. 
"We're still working on it. I think it is just a matter of time. It has been hard to switch from Jaimie to Carey. I think all of us were hoping in the back of our minds that it would click right away but that wasn't realistic. That's part of it and we haven't been 100% healthy. 
page 17 
I'm not trying to make excuses. We should be playing better than we are. There's no ques­tion about that." 
Coming off an upset is a diffi­cult thing to do, but that task was even harder as they had to deal with the Rainbow All­American Angelica Lundquist. 
The top ranked team in the nation enjoyed an incredible team hitting percentage of .476 en route to a 15-5, 15-8, 15-2 triumph. In front of a crowd of 7,916 the 'Bows racked up 11 blocks. to just two for the guests. 
Notre Dame freshman middle blocker Mary Leffers hit .357 on 14 attempts. Leffers also led the Irish the next night with .269 hitting and six blocks. Brown saw her team come back after a dismal game in game one to challenge the home team in the next two, 15­1, 15-9, 15-13. 
Hawaii pushed their record to 22-0 with 18 of those in three game sweeps. The Rainbow Wahine have won 57 of their last 59 matches dating back to the 1994 campaign. So there is no shame in losing at Special Events Arena. 
"It's a great environment to play in," Brown observed. "They are very consistent and made us earn every point and it really wasn't until the sixth game when we challenged them. We were down 0-6 and showed a lot of character to come back like that." 
With just eleven matches re­maining, the character of the team will have to shine through their somewhat aver­age 13-8 record. One of the thorns in the Irish side has been their hitting,· but as Brown discusses, her players realize the season is not over. 
"My perception is the team is hanging in there. We are not hanging our heads saying our season's over. We are saying we have a lot of room for im­provement. I think the attitude and work ethic is good. Sometimes it takes some trials and the team that perseveres comes out on top. We are just going to keep working on get­ting better and persevering even though things aren't go­ing our way." 
Hopefully the team's attitude can overcome their recent play as they only have three non­conference matches before post-season action begins. 
IF YOU SEE SPORTS HAPPENING, CALL THE OBSERVER AT 
1-4543. 

I 
~ I 
--------------~---------~-~ 
page 18 
Records 
continued from page 20 
Currently Daws has scored 51 goals and she has 59 assists in her Notre Dame career for 161 points. She surpassed the pre­vious record of 154 points, which was held by Michelle McCarthy. 
"I am happy for Cindy," said Petrucelli. "She has done so much for us in the past four years. It is statement of what she has done for us in these four years." 
"It is great for her," said senior Kate Fisher. "This just proves that she works really hard, and that she is one of the top players." 
Sophomore Monica Gerardo tied her own record in the game against Seton Hall. She scored four of the ten goals in the game, which she previously set last season in the Irish's game against Indiana. 
Also igniting the Irish offense this past week was freshman Jenny Heft. In her second career start, she scored the second fastest goal ever for the team. Almost instantly, Heft darted through the Rutgers defense and nailed a shot from about 10 yards out. 
The goal was the second in her career. A week later in the game against Seton Hall, Heft netted two more goals. 
"Jenny is a spark for us off the bench," said Petrucelli. "She is really coming on right now." 
Freshman Kara Brown set and tied two school records in the Seton Hall game. She had four assists in the first half of the game, and finished the game with five. 
In their three games over break, the Irish registered 
shutouts over all three. 
The team had a game the sunday before break against one of the tougher Big East opponents, Rutgers. Rutgers is the third-ranked team in the Big East. The Scarlet Knights were manhandled by the Irish, 6-0. 
Notre Dame was without freshman sweeper Jenn Grubb, who was serving her one game suspension for receiving a yel­low card in the game against Santa Clara. Besides Daws' hat trick, senior Stacia Masters net­ted her first goal of the season. Junior Jean McGregor found a wide-open Masters in front of the net. 
The following day the team took on the West Virginia Mountaineers. The West Virginia women's soccer pro­gram is in its first year of exis­tence. 
The Mountaineers could not keep pace with the Irish, and lost 10-0. Junior midfielder Holly Manthei chalked up two goals in the contest. She put the in the initial goal for the Irish, when she connected with a pass from freshman Jenny Streiffer. 
Streiffer also put a goal of her own. Gerardo made a double goal contribution in the game also. 
This past Sunday, Notre Dame defeated Seton Hall, 10­0. 
Besides Gerardo's four goal effort, Streiffer and Heft con­tributed two goals apiece. Grubb and senior Amy VanLaecke made their pres­ence known with a goal a piece. With the victory, the Irish's record rises to 16-1-0, and 8-0­0 in the Big East. They only have two regular season games left, before the Big East tourna­ment. 

Have you ever wanted to learn to 
1
• 
I 
I. t 
come to Lafortune Ballroom on October 29th from 
7:00 p.m. to 10:00 p.m. 
and learn with the Ballroom Dance Club. 
$3 for non-members, 
and members are free!! 
98UPDATB 
The Observer • SPORTS Tuesday, October 29, 1996 
• CROSS COUNTRY 
Irish capture seventh place 
By WILLY BAUER 
Sports Writer 
The Irish returned from Arizona after finding out how they stack up compared to the top ranked cross-country teams in the nation. 
The 11th ranked Notre Dame cross-country team finished the Arizona Invitational, October 19, in seventh place. The Invitational hosted five top 10 and nine of the top 20 cross country teams in the nation. This was the lowest finish of the season for the Irish, but this was also the toughest competi­tion that the team has faced or will face until the NCAA cham­pionships. 
"It was okay but not great," said coach Joe Piane. "Matt Althoff ran great. (Derek) Seiling and (Jason) Hexing ran well but not great. (Joe) Dunlop also ran well, and Antonio Arce 
is making improvements." The Irish were also able to defeat some opponents. 
"We beat the teams that we needed to jump in Wake Forest and Texas," said Piane, "and we did that handily. There was fantastic competition. It was great to see the course and we hope to be back there for the NCAA championships." 
Matt Althoff was the first Irish runner to cross the finish line in 26th place, and Derek Seiling was right behind him in 27th. Jason Hexing followed his teammates closely in 31st place and Joe Dunlop rounded out the top four Irish runners in 60th place. There were 216 runners representing 32 schools. 
Stanford won the meet scor­ing 53 points, compared to the Irish score of 238. Nebraska's Cleophas Boor won the race, but his team finished in sixth place, just ahead of the Irish. 
Notre Dame's "B" team ran in Michigan on October 18 at the Central Collegiate Conference meet. The "B" team once again ran admirably against other schools' "A" teams, finishing in sixth place. Tom Englehardt was the first Irish runner to fin­ish, qualifying in 20th place. 
"They did all right, all things being considered," said Pian e. 
This was the last regular sea­son meet for Notre Dame's "A" team, as it now prepares for the Big East championships November 1 in Boston, Massachusetts. Last year the men finished in third place and are looking to improve. 
"It should be a great meet," said Piane. "There are four teams ranked in the top 25, with Providence being the most underrated. They are number nine but could be in top three at the NCAA's. Georgetown and Villanova are also top teams." 

WaV\ted: Repo~te~s1 photog~aphe~s1 aV\d 
edito~s. 3oiV\ the Obse~ve~ staff. 
OVEMBER 1 U.Aftii-4:00PM 
he College of . . .. . Administration , ; ::}and 2nd Floors 
what is right 
OfJ! 

Tuesday, October 29, 1996 The Observer • TODAY page 19 
MIXED MEDIA JACKOHMN..J" YOUR HOROSCOPE JEANE DIXON 

SCOTT ADAMS 

.
To all those who completed the 
All fitl1less classes are half price.
RecSports equipment survey. 
Sign U]p at the RecSports office. Your involvement is appreciated. Please contact 1-5965 if you would like to receive the survey. 
631-6100 

MOTHER GOOSE & GRIMM 
DILBERT 
I'VE HIT THE GLASS CEILING. I'LL 1\lEVER 
BE PROMOTED AGAIN. 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 31 Sobnquel 
35 Hollywood·s Flynn 1 Red mk amount 
s Grve as an example 
36 Parade feature 
37 Trendy9 Make ashamed 
38 Chorce at a casrno 14lnter 
15 Alack's partner 42 Church denom
16 Jouster's weapon 43 Kind of bag 
44 "--Ia vistar··11 Fraternity letter 
18 Light, happy 45 "The Lion King" tune lion 19 Flowery 47 "Three perfume Match" 20 Choice at a 48 ". . and soft the singles bar --blows": 23 Bloodshot 
Thomas Gray 
49 K-0 connector Thurman 51 Barely lit 
25 Lost vitality 52 Choice at a 
29With 12-Down. 
24 Actress 
faculty a hospital 
department procedure 61 Deux's follower 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
PROf'o\O"TE YOU. 
62 Popular food chain. informally 
63 Just 64 Useful quality 65 Glib comment 66 Abscond 67lmpudent 68Word with 
pigeon or open 69 Salinger dedicatee 
DOWN 
1 Having no get-up-and-go 2 Stick in the .fridge 
3ln--(as originally positioned) 
4 Coal-rich area in Europe s Telephoned 6 Trojan War epic 7 Fine-grained 
Puzzle by Miriam D. Frankel 
mineral  
a First Family of Ferrara  27 Thin porridge 28 Tar  46 Axis foes 48 Moved speedily  55 Sword part 56 Glenn's state  
9 Modern car  29 Magna---­ 50 Having light fog  57 Thorny flower  
feature 10 Robin's mentor  30 Shakespeare's Hathaway  51 Remote-controlled plane  58 Prepares the printing press  
11 One opposed  32 Some  52 Span. coins  59 Svelte  
12 See 29-Across  Pennsylvania  53 Heavenly bear  60 Public relations  
13 Roll call word  Dutch  54 OHice chief  overkill  
21 Competitor of Pert  33 ---Python 34 Mystery writer's  

award Answers to any three clues in this puzzle 22 Surpass in are available by touch-tone phone· 36 Blessingperformance 
1-900-420-5656 (75e> per mrnute). 25 Four-door. 
39 Some jackets Annual subscriptions are available for the 
best of Sunday crosswords from the last 26 Fragrance 41 Start for hazard 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY! IN THE NEXT YEAR OF YOUR LIFE: Finding a hettcr work environment 
will h<~lSl your pm<luctivity. Handle your personal funds carefully. pur­
chasing fewer luxuries. Travel is 
favored early in 1997. A winter va­cation could result in both romance and valuable social connections. You begin to have more fun' Family ties grow stronger following a wed­ding or birth that takes place next summer. Refuse to mediate between feuding relatives; they may be enjoying their ongoing battle. 
CELEBRITIES .BORN ON THIS DAY: actress Winona Ryder, actor Richard Dreyfuss. actress Kate Jackson. hockey player Dennis Potvin. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): An alliance is subject to strain today. Remember to give credit where it isI THINK I due. Taking a new approach to an old problem hastens progress. High­
TRASH CAN, er-ups will be impressed by the results of teamwork.
I THINI< I TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Good luck is linked to sharing. Pool­
TRASH CAN, 
ing funds or talents could prove very beneficial. If a family business
I THINK I,, 
needs revamping, seek the advice of expens. 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): You find yourself in limbo where romance is concerned. The next move is up to your partner. Think about the possible outcome if you seek a raise or different assignment. 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): New intellectual pursuits will coun­
financial rewards from an unexpect­
ed source. Influential people like your style. 
VIRGO (Aug. 21-Sept. 22): People will not respond favorably if you throw "your weight around. Go slow. Settling into a routine will help you acco~1plish more. Expect il larger paycheck or new perks if you have been putting in ovenime. 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Focus on improving your relation­ships at work and home. Your domestic partner mily be getting restless. Spend more time having fun together. Shared goals are also imponant. 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): A dynamic change is occurring in an important alliance. A romantic revival is possible. Someone new enters your life, motivating you in positive ways. 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Confusion will reign if you let it. Make your plans known to those in authority. but avoid debating issues with contentious co-workers. Physical actiYity will help relieve tension. 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Your work environment is in a state of !lux. Determine what you want and go after it' Past relation­ships play an impo!lant role in a cur­rent alliance. 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): A financial deal is still up for grabs. Strive to h.old on to your hard­earned cash' Discard possessions that no longer have your interest. Business negotiations will reach a turning point-later today. 
PISCES (Feh. 19-March 20): Be 
prepared to handle increased com­
munications and paperwork. Your 
keen intuition helps you uncover im­
portant information. Do a favor for 
someone who will be appreciative. 
-
THAT'S BECAUSE YOU'RE 
NOT WILLING TO "PLAY "THE. GAf'o\E..'' '<OU HAVE TO LOOK ANO ACT LIKE THE PERSON WHO CAN 

teract a restless mood. You find a secret reserve of energy this after­noon. Working on a project that has been postponed too often will give you a sense of accomplishment. 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): If tem­pers !lare at work. douse the flames. Going the extra mile will bring 
·(,1·'· 

... SPORTS 
page 20 Tuesday, October 29, 1996 
-
• WOMEN's SOCCER 
Champs sweep Big East trip 
Brown, Daws set pace, break school records 
By KATHLEEN LOPEZ Sporrs Writer 
Practice makes perfect. The top-ranked women's socce.r team can say just that, as they clinch their first Big East regu­lar season title. The Irish claimed the title after defeating the Seton Hall Pirates this past Sunday, 10-0. They claim the title based on the team's 2-1 victory over the second-ranked Connecticut Huskies. With this past victory over Seton Hall, the Irish move to 8-0-0 in the rank­ings. 
The Irish are looking to ride this wave of victories into post season play. "We are starting to peak right now, which is important," said head coach Chris Petrucelli. "It is impor­tant to play well when it counts." 
"We are on a roll right now," said senior Kate Fisher. "We are on a roll offensively and defensively, and it will all come together at the right time." 
Numerous Irish players had outstanding offensive efforts this past week. Senior mid­fielder Cindy Daws was named 


Big East OITensive Player of the Week. She turned in two hat tricks this past week in the team's contest against Rutgers and West Virginia. In the game against West Virginia, Daws became the Notre Dame all 
Freshman Kara Brown registered four first half assists against Seton time leading point scorer. Hall to break a Notre Dame record. Her efforts were instrumental in the 10-0 victory for the Irish. 
see RECORDS I page 18 
• MEN's SOCCER 
Rough waters on the east coast 
Capasso, Irish salvage third game of trip 
By BRIAN REINTHALER Sports Writer 
While most students were packing their bags and prepar­ing to leave campus for fall break, the Irish men's soccer team was heading east for an important three-game road trip consisting of all confer­ence matchups. 
The trip did nat begin exact­ly as planned. 
The first hurdle for Notre Dame was No. 6 Rutgers. A win in the contest would cer­tainly have boosted the Irish into the top 10 of the national poll. 
Sophomore goalkeeper Greg Velho helped Notre Dame sur­vived a tirst half in which they were ou tshot 7-1. The starter 
see BIG EAST I page 17 

• VOllEYBAll 

Sports Information Photo Senior captain Jenny Birkner recorded 11 digs against West Virginia to move into third place on the Notre Dame career list. The Irish defeated the Mountaineers 15-0, 15-3, 15-11. 
Optimism abounds despite tough losses 
By JOE CAVATO Sports Writer 
After a fall break itinerary which found the women's vol­leyball squad weary of travel across the continent and half of the Pacific Ocean, coach Debbie Brown finds her squad down but not out. 
The Irish setters went 1-3 over the week with the win coming in Big East play at West Virginia. The Mountaineers totaled 14 points in the three games which represents the lowest total scored by an Irish oppo­nent this season. 
In the first two games the Domers hardly knew there was a team on the other side of the net as Brown's squad took the match by the final of 15-0, 15-3, 15-11. With the sweep, they improved their Big East record to a perfect 5­0 this season and 18-0 total in their first two seasons in the conference. 
With juniors Jaimie Lee and Carey May back at their nat­ural positions, the sometimes stagnant offense showed signs of improvement as they enjoyed a team hitting per­centage of .284. May picked up 31 assists with no ball han­dling errors while 6-5 Jen Rouse had a tremendous day chalking up seven kills with a .545 percentage. 
Senior captain Jenny Birkner's team leading 11 digs moved her past '93 grad­uate Alicia Turner into third­place on the Irish career digs list with 1,200. 
Unfortunately, the team didn't fair as well on the West Coast as the Big East leaders learned that they were defi­nitely not the best in the West. They were upset by Cal State Northridge and dropped two to the top-ranked Hawaii Rainbows. 
The Matadome of Cal State 
see HAWAII I page 17 

vs. Navy 
• Cross Country competes in Arizona 
November 2, 8:00a.m. 
vs. Wisconsin 
see page 18
i ­
~ 
October 31, 7:30 p.m. 
Big East Championships 
• Tigers deal Sierra to Cincinnati
r 
November 2 
I 
see page 13 
~ '. 


