

---~--­
Tuesday, February 13, 1996• Vol. XXVII No. 88 THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S • ELECliON '96 
Election field narrows, run-off Wednesday 
Mclnerney/Wolsfeld 19.89% 






Dole squeaks by in Iowa caucus 
By JOliN KING A"oti;ttl'll Press 
• NEWS ANALYSIS 
I>I·:S MOINES, Iowa Hnpuhlit·an front-runner 

Buchanan surprises· Bob Doll' Wsted his presidtm­tial ambitions in Iowa caurus­PS Monday night against a 
with a close second 
t'l'owdt~d. contentious lield of c;op challengers lined up for 
By RAAMJANI rate voters with his radio and tlw rlHLIH~n to drive President 
New~ Writer television commercials did Clinton from tlw While lloust~. 
not work well with the caucus Tlw Iowa contests launched 
The winner of yesterday's system. the (;t)l' liPid into an unpreee­
Iowa Caucus was the favored Arnold said that for contitJ­dnntt~d stretch of early 
candidate, Hobert Dole who UQd success, Forbes would nomination battles. Orw spot­
finished first with 27 percent have needed to finish within light was on Steve Forbes and 
of the vote. Pat Buchanan live to six percent of Dole. He Lamar i\lt~xandnr, who faced 
finished a strong second fol­fell well short of that goal. party activists for the first 
lowed by Lamar Alexander. While it was a victory for lime, while Pat Buehanan and 
One big surprise however, Dole, Pat Buchanan will also J'hil (;ramrn battled for !iUp­
based on recent media be able to gain momentum port from tlw staw's large and 
reports. was how poorly Steve from Iowa since, according to influential bloc of Christian 
Forbes fared. He only Arnold. Buchanan was the 
const~rvatives. 
received 10 percent of the candidate favored by the "The people of Iowa could 
votB. His campaign had been Christian Right which is tradi­wnll dt~dde the futurn of this 
gaining momentum recently, tionully a strong voting bloc rountry," said Doln, the Senate 
but this defeat will seriously in Iowa. majority leader from neighbor­
damage his chances of win­·Arnold, places a high ing Kansas. "You've got to 
ning. amount of importance on the think of it that way. That's how 
Notre Dame professor Peri Iowa Caucus. He said that important this is." 
Arnold was not surprised by those who come in fourth With thousands of Iowa ac­
Forbe·s· poor showing. place or lower will be set tivists undecided and unim­
According to Arnold. Forbes' back throughout the rest of pressed going into thn eau­
technique of trying to satu­
see CAUCUS I page 4 

cuses. t~aeh of Dole's rivals hoped to push him off his 
state's registered Hepublieans with his eye focused more onJH~reh. More practically, they -for the evening straw poll at November than a chillywagml an unpredietable race 
2,142 precinct meetings at February night.
for sneond and third, hoping churches. sehools and com­The Hepublican candidatesthat would be a boost as the munity centers. Monday's vote were hard put to clarify their
campaign moves to Nnw 
was the first step in choosing differences on the issues, seek­llampshire and beyond. 
25 dt1legates to the GOP con­ing less government. a simpler"It's going to depend on who vention. tax system and stricter family
gets tlwir pcopl1~ out," said 
The Democrats' caucuses values that forbid abortions.
(;ramm. 
served only as a reminder that Forbes' opponents were united
COl' officials predicted a 
Clinton has no primary chal­in their critieism of the uneom­record turnout of' I:W,OOO vot­
lenge. lie spent the weekend 
ers -about 20 percent of the 


campaigning here anyway. see DOLE I page 4 
• SMC DEBATE 
Candidates square off on variety of issues 
By HEATHER CROSS 
News Writer 
MAUREEN HURLEY 
Saint Mary's News Ediror 
On the eve of election day. Saint Mary's Student Body President and Vice President hopefuls faced questioning from voters in an open forum last night sponsored by the Board of Governance (BOG). 
The forum, hosted by BOG Elections Commissioner Emily Huffner, began with an opening statement from e11ch ticket. The _candidates answered six questions from Ruffner, then the floor was opened for stu­dents to ask questions regard­ing the six women's views on their possible future the next student body President and Vice President. 
While communication to increase student involvement ranked as a primary issue throughout the campaign, the tickets opened the questioning by citing the following as their most important platform goal: 
• 
The Leigh Ann llutchison/Amberly Hershberger ticket stated that later access to the Moreau tun­nel door ranks as a top priority. 

• 
The Emily Miller/Jennifer Lidga ticket stressed the benefit of creating freshman year sup­port groups, allowing freshmen the opportunity to be mentored by upperclassmen in their major. 


• The Jen Turbiak!Beth Ann Miller believe that campus­wide publicity of activities is their most important goal, and they intend on setting up a large dining hall calendar of events. 
Throughout the series of questions, candidatns dealt with issues that would eonfront them in the ol'liees or student body President and Vice President, ranging from servkc opportunities on campus to aeadernie requirements. 
Citing the success of January's Play of the Mind Conference, the llutchison/llersllberger ticket hopes to host a similar eonf'er­ence where freshmen can col­laborate and communicate on new ideas to improve campus leadership and involvement. 
"Every woman here has the power to make an improve­ment," said llershbergcr. "Leanne and I think that one element that is very important is student accountability." By serving as a resource for stu­dents to bring about ehangc, they hope to "instill a sense of ownership and pride in the programs that go on at Saint Mary's," Hershberger said. 

The Miller/Lidga team said the Saint Mary's eommunity should be fully aware of the functions of the campus, and emphasized the importance of student input. 
"We based our platform on 
see DEBATE I page 4 

By KRIST! KOLSKI 102 of 1440 off-campus stu­A»ist•mt News Editor dm1ts cast ballots. Mi!lnr expressed joy over Yt~slnrday the tickets or Hyan makmg the runoff. "We feel 
Mcinerney and Matt Wolsfdd, that all week the 'three r's' sep­and Seth Miller and Megan arated us: research, realistic Murra)' earrwd spots in a runoff and record," he said. "We have 
Wl'dnesday to determine the a proven record of making student body president and promises and keeping them." vkt~·presidtml. Murray looked forward to the 
Millt~r/Murray garnered 25.R2 runoff. "Elections can be so pnn:t~nt (!JH!J) votns while unprmlictable. I think it will be Mehwrrwy/Wolsf'dd took 19.81) dose because the primary was pPI't'f'nt (7£l2) votes. In aceor-dosn." she said. "I just really danre with eleetion hi-laws, hope a lot of' people turn out sinn~ lil'ty pernmt plus one votn and vote." was not won by a single ticknt, Tlw Mdnerney/Wolsfeld tick­a runoff will he lwld between et t~ehoed the euphoria. "We tlwsn two top lirkets. are r11ally excited about the 
Hounding out the mst of the tight rac11 and we hope that the voting; tlw Brian Klausrwr/ student body will give us a Tony I!Pid tirknt reeeived 13.78 ehanee to make changes," pert:f'nt (52 H) votes, Mike Mcinerney said. I."Jood!l>ave MuiiPn took 11.51 Under the rules of the runoff, pPrl'ent i441). Greg the remaining tickets could be­Zarzaur/Tt~d Mahan received gin campaigning at 12:01 am 'J.O:~ percnnt (346), Hyan today, and eontinue until 11:59 Cuillnn/Dnhorah Hellmuth eap-tonight. tun~d 7.52 pnrcent (28H), Torn "We havn to work harder in llodPrit'k/Kate McShane took some of the dorms to swing 
h.H 1J pt~rcnnt (264). Mikn some of the votes our way," l·:gt~r/Mikt> Bacon received 2.74 Wolsfnld said. pt>rc'tHII (105), Kt~vin Of the tickets that did not (;Jynn/l'atrirk Bnlton got 2.04 make the runoff. Eger/Bacon pt'l'rt~nt (7HJ. and Harry llo-was the only one to offer an en­wist•n/J>t>mian Nave rnanagnd dorsenwnt, throwing their sup-1.41J pt~rn~nl (57). port to Melnerney/Wolsfeld. 
Nurnhnrs revnal that just "Thny are motivated by ambi­oVPr !iO pPITI'llt of thn studnnt Lion to do something for stu­body rast volt's Monday. Only dents and they are not moti­
:•t-'"" .., · ·· " ' 
J • 1--------------------------. 
1 NOTRE DAME 
: ELECTIONS 
j 

..,·------------• 
6.89% 
The results for the 1996 

primary elections. Atotal 

of 3831 students voted. A 
runoff will take place this 
Wednesday between 
Miller/Mur~ay and 


Mclnerney/Wolsfeld. 
The Observer/Christopher Mullins 
vated by bureaucracy," Eger said. 
Although the Eger/Bacon tick­et did not win a large per­eentage of the vote, Eger found the election experience enlight­ening. 
"I think we accomplished what we wanted to," Eger said. "We added levity." . 

Howisen did not speak for his running-mate, Nave, in offering an endorsement but felt that Miller/Murry are a very quali­fied team. 
Among the other tickets. Flood/Mullen, Zarzaur/Mahan, Klausner/Reid and Guillen/IIellmuth did not offer any endorsements but instead 
Glynn/Belton 2.04% 
Guillen/Hellmuth 7.52% Howisen/Nave 1.49% 
Klausner/Reid 13.78% 
wishnd both tickets luck. 
"They are both worthy eandi­dates, and we respect their campaigns," Mullen said. "It is tough for us to endorse one candidate." 
Klausner had similar stmli­ments. "I think both are really 
see ELECTION I page 4 

page 2 The Observer • INSIDE Tuesday, February 13, 1996 




A Public 
Service 


Announce01ent 
You do know what tomorrow is, don't you? If you don't, you 
should be shot. 
To desensationalize Valentine's Day is absolutely devastating. I know the day is a tense one, but trust me! Good things will happen to you tomorrow if you are a proponent of good things. 
And if you make a conscious decision to abstain from the celebration, you better have a VERY serious reason. This does not include being involved in a new relationship where the "rules" are, as yet, undefined. This does not excuse those of you who tried to pull ofT something smashing last year and were oblit­erated. Suck it up. There is nothing stoic about being unloved or unloving on Valentine's Day. 
It's potentially the most emotionally charged day of the entire year. Hopefully, your stingy boyfriend buys you a dozen roses out of nowhere. Or the quiet guy in your EG120 lecture invites you to dinner. (Who cares if it's only in the dining hall? You can still say you have a date.) 
Look here, 0 Shy Ones. John Donne exclaims, "Stand still, and I will read to thee/ A lecture, Love, in love's philosophy." Valentine's Day is the ultimate excuse for all of you reclusive types to do something that makes somebody (and hopefully, yourselO happy. You don't have to invest in a dozen red roses. And you don't have to serenade her. Leave that to the Glee Club. 
I know you. I know you have someone par­ticular in mind but have hidden your emotions so well that you have vowed to abandon this Valentine's Day. You are hoping that your Special Someone will do the romancing for you. Not recommended. 
Or perhaps you fall into that pathetic cate­gory that I like to call As Flavorless as a Saltine. You are dull, dry and inspirationless. And you are killing any possibility of a rela­tionship because of it. This column is dedicat­ed to you. 
Following is a list of the most romantic things I can think of. And believe me, when it comes to being a Romantic (yes, I will capital­ize the R if you don't mind). All it takes is a lit­tle flair for the festive. 
• 
Wear red underwear. (Actually, any color in silk will do.) 

• 
Pick the reddest red lipstick you can find. 

• 
Sift out all the red M&M's, skittles, gummy bears, whatever. Spell your lover's name on a sign with a little bit of Elmer's. 

• 
Put a cherry in your yo-cream. 


Too tame for you? OK, here's another list for those who William Congreve describes as "no novice in the labyrinth of love." 
• 
Pretend you're Dante and she's Beatrice. Write a sonnet and slide it under her door. 

• 
Kiss someone. Anyone. 

• 
Leave a silent voice mail for someone to hear when they wake up. 

• 
Speak in Italian. 


I've now eliminated your excuses for evad­ing the most marketable holiday Hallmark ever got a hold of. You have only a matter of hours, so get to it. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 


News Viewpoint Melanie Laflin Meaghan Smirh Deborah Schulrz Kevin Kiefer 
Sports Production Megan McGrarh )ana Bruder Karhleen Lopez Tara Grieshop 
Graphics Lab Tech Karie Kroener 
Chris Mullins 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacadon periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 

• Wmu.o 14T AGtAWCE 
Economic effects of flood seep into every corner 
PORTLAND, Ore. 
As shopkeepers pulled sandbags aside and pushed squeegees to clear inches of muck from their front doors Monday, Northwesterners began assessing the broader impact of last week's floods. 
Freight trains packed with goods and hundreds of long­haul truckers started moving after being idled behind mudslides and high waters, commercial shipping was halted indefinitely and farmers must figure out when to plant fields still soggy with sewage-laden river waters. 
Meanwhile, thousands of people remained out of their homes as the Northwest's swollen web of waterways slowly receded. Everywhere the rivers and streams had strayed, gooey brown sludge remained. 
Just like the muddy waters that spread from farm towns to industrial parks, the economic effects of the Flood of 1996 are seeping into every corner: truckloads of TVs held up by mudslides, a shipload of Toyotas stalled outside the idled Port of Portland, a computer printer fac­tory closed two days for lack of employees, a golf course reduced to one big water hazard. 
And much like a roiling stream washes out a riverbank and deposits it downstream to form a fertile plain, the flood is picking up p'arts of the economy and setting them down in new places. 
"Some people will be shifting away from discretionary purchases," said William Conerly, senior vice president 
Kevorkian judge limits questioning 
PONTIAC, Mich. 
A judge ruled Monday that potential jurors in Dr. Jack Kevorkian's assisted suicide trial cannot be asked about their religious beliefs or their views on a law that banned the practice. After first approving a defense motion to ask such questions, Circuit Judge Jessica Cooper switched positions and threw out juror questionnaires proposed by 

both sides. In her order, the judge told lawyers not to ask any questions that. require prospective jurors to reveal their religious beliefs or their views on a now­expired state law banning assisted suicide. Kevorkian, an outspoken advocate of physician-assisted suicide as an option for the severely ill, is accused of violating the ban by aiding two 1993 deaths. Merian Frederick, 72, of Ann Arbor, had Lou Gehrig's disease, and Dr. Ali Khalili, 61, of Oak Brook, Ill., had bone cancer. Both died after inhal­ing carbon monoxide. 

Gunman attacks former workplace 
SACRAMENTO, Calif. 
A man fired from Packard Bell for urging armed rebel­lion against his bosses shot up his former workplace with 40 rounds of ammunition Monday until he was wounded in the shoulder by a security guard. No one else was hurt in the shooting at the computer maker's headquarters. "It's really miraculous that somebody wasn't hit with at least a ricochet," police spokesman Michael Heenan said. Heenan said Phuoc .Bui, 34, could be charged with at­tempted murder. Bui was hospitalizaed in good condition. Bui had been fired on Friday "for the kind of behavior that would make you suspect something like this -dis­tributing literature to other employees about taking up arms against supervisors," Heenan said. Bui entered the Packard Bell complex about 9 a.m. and went to his for­mer worksite, a large packing room, carrying a 9 mm semiautomatic pistol and three clips of ammunition in a small nylon bag, the police officer said. The gunman began shooting, mostly into the ceiling and into a super­visor's office, Heenan said. He forced one of his former supervisors to walk down a hall, where Bui was confront­ed by two plainclothes security guards. Packard Bell said in a statement that i1 is re-examining its security. 

Northwest flooding 
The residents of northwest are cleaning up altar last week's devastating floods. Thousands of people remain out of their homes throughout the lour states. 
Idaho 

for First Interstate Bank. "Maybe they are not getting the big-screen TV they have been thinking about. They are throwing their money into landscaping their yard, if there was minor damage, or massive reconstruction for those people who have major damage." 
Electricians will be in high demand because the high waters shorted out so many systems. And overbooked construction workers will be shifting from new projects to repair work. 


Passenger defecates on airliner 
NEW YORK 
An investment banker accused of defecating on a air­liner's food-service cart during a flight pleaded guilty to­day to a misdemeanor charge of threatening a flight at­tendant and agreed to pay $50,000 in restitution. His lawyer said his only problem was diarrhea. "I was an­gry," Gerard Finneran, 52. told Magistrate Judge Steven 
M. Gold as he admitted making the threat aboard a United Airlines flight from Buenos Aires to New York on Oct. 20. Finneran, a managing director at the Trust Company of the West who lives in upscale Greenwich, Conn., faces up to six months in jail and a $5,000 fine when he is sentenced May 14. As part of his sentence, Finneran agreed to pay the airline $49,029 for damage to the plane and to reimburse passengers for the flight. Finneran told Gold that he had no intention of carrying out his threat but badly wanted another glass of wine after the airline had stopped serving alcohol. "I became annoyed and said words that implied a physical threat," he said. 

Program gives hope to troubled kids 
RANTOUL, Ill. 
At Hope Meadows, families get free housing and an $18,000 salary for one parent to stay home and take care of the kids. Retired people get reduced rent for doing ev­erything from reading to the children to working as school crossing guards. The government-subsidized community, set up at an abandoned Air Force base, oper­ates according to the African proverb "It takes a village to raise a cbild." The project is aimed at kids who have suffered from the abuse and addictions of their biological parents. The 22 "Hope children" are those in state cus­tody who are older or have special medical or behavioral problems that make them hard to place elsewhere. The Hope Meadows residents, along with child-welfare work­ers and volunteers, are building a community focused on serving children. "It's going to make a lot of difference in a lot of people's lives," said Debbie Calhoun, who has seven children in her family's home -two foster chil­dren, four adopted children and her biological daughter. Calhoun said she and her husband, Ken, decided to move to Hope Meadows when it opened in 1994 because of the program's promise of a stable, long-term family setting for foster and adopted children. 


The AccuWeather~~~> forecast for noon. Tuesday, Feb. 13. 
COLD WARM STATIONARY C 1996 AccuWeather, Inc. 
Pre.ssure ~ ~ 
H L Ea &'SJ 1TI1 0 IZ3 § ~ L-...! U 
HIGH L.OW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY 
v• Auoclatrtd p,.... 

Atlanta  59  39  Dallas  73  44  New Orleans 67  46  
Baltimore 35  23  Denver  53  30  New York  28  16  
Boston  30  10  Los Angeles 73  55  Philadelphia 34  23  
Chicago  32  24  Miami  75  50  Phoenix 73  55  
Columbus 35  24  Minneapolis  31  17  St. Louis47  35  

I, 

Storytime! .. . . 
Alistair Macleod reads his story, "The Boat, wh1ch he wrote wh1le attending Notre Dame in the '60's. 
The Observer • NEWS page 3 







New ResNet on schedule 
0/T working bugs out ofsystem to arrive in dorms 
By HEATHER COCKS 
Assistant News Editor 

No more busy phone lines. Unlimited, immediate access to e-mail and the Internet. It's a net surfer's dream. 
With the commencement of the Fall 1996 semester, it will become a reality for many Notre Dame students. 
The project, dubbed "HesNet", involves bringing all the residence halls online, al­lowing 'students the freedom to browse the Internet from the comfort of their dorm rooms. "This is a huge step," says Larry Rapagnani, assistant provost for the Office of Information Technologies. "In the next 12 months, we will es­sentially be doubling the level of technology available." 
Workers have been drilling in dorms all across campus, in­stalling outlets that resemble a slightly enlarged phone jack. By connecting their computers to this outlet, students can access the network via Ethernet rather than using a modem. 
As explained by Hapagnani, the Ethernet is five times faster than a modem; in addition, it eliminates the often frustrating wait that ensues when attempt­ing to dial into the network. "It will be activated 24-hours a day, seven days a week," says Hapagnani. "It's really such a wonderful convenience." 
Student Council Chief Council and Judicial Council President Tom Matzzie concurrs_ "The new residential networking will be a great improvement, a great addition to the campus," said Matzzie. 
50 percent of students arriv­ing on campus in August 1996 will be living in dorms which have been brought online in time for registration. 
"This network is being con­structed with a limited number of hands doing the job," com­ments Documentation Coordinator Kathy Sexton. In order to join the ResNet, each hall must have at least one small room acting as a techno­logical hub; the area will be filled with electronic equipment providing the residents' link to Internet. Sexton noted that the process is time-consuming. but she asserted that the remaining dorms will come online as quickly as possible. "By October of 1997, every residence hall will be network-ready," she predicts. 
ResNet users will be able to access the Netscape, Eudora, and other software that links them to many campus re­sources such as the library card catalogue. Rapagnani states that the ultimate intent behind ResNet is to create in the dorm room a similar environment as that which is found in a com­puter cluster. "Initially students will still need to visit the clus­ters to access programs such as Courseware; however, our goal is to provide this through ResNet by August 1998," says Rapagnani. 
"It is disappointing that the cluster software will not be available immediately," com­mented Matzzie. "However, it will be worth the wait." 
With this unlimited ability to tap into the Internet comes an expected level of responsibility, which is outlined in the "Responsible Use Policy." The Office of Information Technologies has been working to adapt the current Computer Usage Policy to create "a non­restrictive policy designed not to scare students, but to reaf­firm the need to use this reaource wisely," clarifies Rapagnani. The guidelines will appear in duLac, as well as the faculty handbook, to ensure that people recognize that they will be held accountable for any abuse of the ResNet privilege. 
In theory, this rapid connec­tion will be free to Notre Dame students; the only real expendi­ture involves upgrading some computers that may not cur­rently be "Ethernet-ready," ac­cording to Rapagnani. "Many of the newer models have the Ethernet card already installed, but those lacking the card will need to purchase one in order to use ResNet." lie asserts that the computer store will offer advice and assistance should students seek an upgrade or question the· capabilities of their current machine. 
Both Sexton and Rapagnani maintain that they understand the necessity to keep parents, faculty, and students informed of the new developments in HesNet. Sexton has been com­piling the "Byteline", an infor­mation packet containing the specifics of the network, as well as articles explaining which computer models are Ethernet­ready. Advice is also oiTered as to the best procedure should students or parents wish to in­vest in an Ethernet card. "Communication is absolutely vital," affirms Sexton, adding, "We do not want anyone enter­ing into this blindly. We're here to help and make this as easy as possible." The Byteline will be published in May and promptly mailed to both stu­dents and parents. 
"We're making real progress in our attempt to generate an environment in which we in­corporate more and more tech­nological advances into ev­eryday life," states Hapagnani. "As society continues its evolu­tion towards electronics, we will continue to increase the technology available to the stu­dent body." 
A list will be printed in May citing the dorms that will be online by the beginning of the Fall 1996 semester. 



Please 

--------·-­
page 4 The Observer • NEWS Tuesd:~y, February 13, 1996 
Dole 
continued from page 1 
promising flat tax he would use 
to replace the income tax. 
"If we had the flat tax in our 
(Republican) platform, we'd 
have just about as many mem­
bers as the flat earth society," 
Alexander said. 
For Dole, 72, Iowa repre­
sented the first step in his third 
bid for the GOP nomination, 
and nothing less than a win ·would do in a contest he won in 1988. "I'm ready for the people to make a judgment," he said. 
Iowa was a precursor to the 
year's first presidential pri­
mary, next Tuesday in New 
Hampshire, where polls show 
Dole in a dead heat with 
Forbes, the political newcomer 
whose non-stop television ad­
vertising has dominated the 
campaign environment this 
winter. 
Beyond testing Dole's 
strength, Iowa's vote was the 
first balloting for Forbes after a 
$20 million advertising barrage 
largely dedicated to attacking 
Dole. Forbes' standing slipped 
in recent polling, and he pro­
claimed a modest goal: "I hope 
to finish in the top four." 
Gramm and Alexander were 
sorely in need of a top-three 
finish. But they faced stiff com­
petition from Buchanan, who 
was gaining strength among 
Christian conservatives who 
could make up perhaps 40 per­
cent of caucus attendees. 
Buchanan implored backers of 
long-shot candidate Alan Keyes 
not to cost him precious points. 
Forbes campaigned as the 
outsider, stealing a march from 
Alexander, the former gover­
nor of Tennessee. 
Also on the ballot were 
Indiana Sen. Dick Lugar, 
Illinois businessman Morry 
Taylor and California Rep. Bob 
Dornan. 
Officially, the delegate hunt 
began last week in Louisiana, 
whine Buchanan stunned 
Gramm and captured 13 of 21 
delegates. Dole, Forbes and 
most other GOP hopefuls boy­
cotted, preserving Iowa's tradi­
tional role as the first full-scale 
contest. 
As such, Iowa was likely to 
rank the candidates for the 
hectic weeks ahead. And while 
all nine on Monday's ballot 
vowed to fight on, the Iowa re­
sults likely will be the begin­
ning of the end for several. 
Over the next six weeks, a 
grueling calendar forces the 
candidates to compete in 32 states, and 70 percent of GOP delegates will be chosen by the time California holds its March 26 primary. 
The Republicans hoping to replace Clinton campaigned right up to the dinner hour. 
Polls showed Dole with a commanding lead but enthusi­asm for his candidacy has been hard to come by, and he bused in hundreds of volunteers from other Midwest states to help get his supporters into gear. He stressed his affinity for farm country, and argued he was the only candidate with the leader­ship qualities and experience required in a president. 
Forbes didn't have a ground operation to rival that of Gramm, Dole or Alexander. He was banking on support won through an unprecedented $4 million Iowa TV ad campaign, and the strength of an anti­Washington message that con­demned politicians and called for limiting their terms and cut­ting their pensions. Rivals said Forbes' flat tax would punish the middle class, and argued he wasn't qualified to be president in any event. 
Gramm, for his part, was in serious trouble after promising a win in Louisiana. His loss sent his standing here tum­bling, and the Texan already was lagging well back in New Hampshire. Gramm began the week saying he would quit the race if he fared worse than · third, but later vowed to press on regardless. 
Still, aides were mulling pulling scarce resources from New Hampshire and saving them for South Carolina, on the theory that Forbes might seri­ously wound Dole in New Hampshire but find tougher sledding in the South because of his more moderate social views. 
Alexander drew enthusiastic crowds the final weekend and campaigned on the theme he was more prepared for the presidency than Forbes, had fresher ideas than Dole -and was running a more positive campaign than either of them. To stay in the race, he needed to prove a base of support. 
For Buchanan, Iowa was a 
pleasant surprise. 
He had low expectations here, but rushed from his win in Louisiana to tell Iowa's Christian conservatives he had proven Gramm too weak to beat Dole or Clinton. Late polling showed him gaining. 

PLAZA 
~".rJ'l~iL 


1ll 
E] 



E
17V~~H on~~ TEB. llf~ 1 7:3o,~ ~~nior cLa55 PLaY 

TICKETS $3, BUY AT LAFORTUNE INFO DESK OR AT WASH. HALL 1/2 HOUR BEFORE SHOW 
BRING YOUR VALENTINE ON WED. TAPE FRIENDS ON THURS. 
Debate 
continued from page 1 
interviews with student leaders and we feel this is what the student body is really asking for," said Miller. This ticket stressed the student body's awareness of such policies can lead to positive change where it is needed. 
Along with a controversial proposal to look into the possi­bility of reducing graduation requirements, the Turbiak!Miller ticket proposed a variety of publicity ideas. In addition to the dining hall cal­endar, this team proposed a monthly insert in The Observer, to increase aware­ness on both the Saint Mary's and Notre Dame campuses. 
"We believe that not only our platform encompasses all the qualities of the mission state­ment, but we, as Saint Mary's women, encompass all these qualities spiritually, academi­cally and socially," said Turbiak. 
Voting will take place today in the Saint Mary's dining hall from 8 a.m. to 2 p.m. and' 4:30 
p.m. to 7 p.m. Students must present their Saint Mary's ID to vote. 

Election 
continued from page 1 
qualified, maybe a little too se­rious but either ticket would do a great job." 
Roderick/McShane also wished both candidates luck but expressed disappointment in the voter turn out. Only 3,831 students out of the 7,636 eligi­ble voted. 
The Glynn/Belton was un­available for comment. 
Students can vote in their dorms Wednesday from 11 a.m. to 1 p.m. and between 5 p.m. and 7 p.m. Off-campus stu­dents can vote in LaFortune during those same times. 

Professor of Law, Yale Law School 


Caucus 
continued from page.l 
the primaries. 
One of those who finished in the lower portion of the draw was Indiana Senator Richard Lugar. "Of all the candidates, he may have the best creden­tials to be President," said Professor Arnold. There are several reasons why Lugar fin­ished with only 4 percent of the vote. "He doesn't have the flat tax like Steve Forbes," said Arnold. Lugar has been unable to catch on b~;Jcause he has fewer demagogic skills and is a quiet, midwestern type of politician. 
"Lugar has a sterling record as a farm policy leader. He is also one of the most distin­guished Republican foreign pol­icy makers in the Senate," said Arnold. 
He stands apart from the other Republicans as being a foreign policy candidate which is evidenced by his tenure on the Senate Foreign Relations Committee. 
Lugar has been running an overlooked campaign ever since he announced his candi­dacy on the same day as the Oklahoma City bombing, April 19, 1995. Ever since he has had trouble stepping into the spotlight. 
Even though the primary .elections are just beginning, Dole's victory and Buchanan's strong showing will give them the momentum going into the next few weeks. Lamar Alexander fared well also, but all of the other candidates will need to make up ground in a hurry to have a chance to win the Republican nomination for President. 
IF YOU SEE NEWS HAPPENING, CALL THE OBSERVER AT 1-5323. 
All Valentines on Valentine's Day! 

256-1444 
SPECIALIZING IN CUISINE Southern Italian Finest PreP.ared by Francesco FamilyAn Authentic Taste ItalyMost Romantic Place in South Bend and Mishawaka 
Hours 
Mon-Thu 
4-10 Frl & Sat 
4-11 Sun closed 
Welcome Junior Parents! 
1213 Lincolnway West Mishawaka (Francesco was chef at ND for 30 !) 
THE NOTRE DAME 
COALITION TO ABOLISH THE 
DEATH PENALTY 
presents: 
The Electric Chair and the Chain Gang: 
Choices and Challenges for America's Future 

7:ooPM 





Debartolo Room 102 
Co~Sponsored by: 

Center for Civil and Human Rights Notre Dame Law School Thomas J. White Center for Law and Government 

Tuesday, January 23, 1996 The Observer • NEWS page 5 
Port Authority hides Peace Prize nominees named 
By DOUG MELLGREN closes the names of candidates, group Soldiers' Mothers;

art from public view 
Associated Press partly to protect those strug­Kurdish Parliamentarian Leyla 
Associated Press 
NEWYOHK 

When motorists in the New York City area pay tolls to use bridges and tunnels, they're also subsidizing a multimillion­dollar art collection. 
The Port Authority, which op­erates bridge and tunnel links between New York and New Jers11y as well as the region's three big airports, owns more than 1,300 artworks, and most are k11pt far from public view, the Daily News reported today. The agency disputes that last assertion. 
The collection, appraised at $26.7 million for insurance purposes, includes works by sueh modern masters as Pablo Pieasso and Alexander Calder, the News said. The eollection's resale value is estimated at $14.7 million. 
To care for the works -a 
To Kate-

We missed your last birthday at N.D., but we wish you a wonderful year! 
Happy22+1 
Love, 

Your Family 

38-page list of holdings -the government agency employs a curator paid more than $40,000 a year, and consults an art committee with experts from the Whitney Museum in New York and the Newark Museum. 
Many of the 1,320 paintings, sculptures, tapestries and other treasures grace the offices of agency officials or employees, or they're in storage, records show. 
Tapestries valued at $91,000 adorn a hallway and reception area of the PA's executive of­fices in the World Trade Center, the News said. And a foyer leading to the suite show­cases two Calder mobiles appraised at about $23,000 and $15,000. 
Port Authority Chairman Lew Eisenberg disputed that the artworks are hidden away in executive offices. 
OSLO, Norway 

President Clinton and his peace emissary for Bosnia, Richard Holbrooke, are among 103 people and organizations so far nominated for this year's Nobel Peace Prize. 
Imprisoned Chinese dissident and human rights activist Wei Jingsheng received multiple nominations. 
In keeping with the prize committee's tradition of se­crecy, the non-voting secretary, Geir Lundestad, refused com­ment Monday on the names of candidates. 
He would say only that 82 in­dividuals and 21 organizations had been nominated as of Monday, but proposals post­marked by the Jan. 31 nomina­tion deadline were continuing to arrive in Oslo and still could be included. 
The Oslo-based Norwegian Nobel Committee never dis­
gling against oppressive regimes. 
However, names of some can­didates become public, usually because those making the .nom­inations announce them. 
This year, known candidates include Clinton and Holbrooke, a U.S. assistant secretary of state, for their efforts to bring peace to Bosnia. Former President Jimmy Carter, who has been nominated several years running for his world­wide peace efforts, was nomi­nated again this year. 
The 1995 Peace Prize winner, anti-nuclear activist Joseph Rotblat, suggested Mordechai Vanunu, an Israeli nuclear technician imprisoned since 1986 for revealing secrets about the country's atomic weapons. 
Other known nominees for the 1996 prize are: Hussian human rights activist Sergei Kovalyov; the Russian anti-war Zana, who is jailed in Turkey; East Timor's Catholic Bishop Carlos Filipe Ximenes Belo; and Bishop Samuel Ruiz of Mexico. 
Others include Ibrahim Rugova, president of the trou­bled Kosovo region of Serbia; Hermod Lannu, a 100-year-old Dane nominated for his lifelong efforts to promote international solidarity; and Maha Ghosananda, a Bhuddist monk, for his efforts to bring peace to Cambodia. 
The five-member committee will have its first meeting on Feb. 28 to begin the process of picking a winner, to be an­nounced in mid-October. 
Lundestad said this year's cash award would be about $1 million. 
The prize is always presented in Oslo on Doc. 10, the anniver­sary of the death of Alfred Nobel, a Swede who invented dynamite and endowed the prize in his 1895 will. 






Compton struggles to survive 
By DEBORAH HASTINGS 
Associated Press 
COMPTON, Calif. 

Just south of downtown Los Angeles, smack against Watts, lies the oldest city west of the Mississippi governed by a black majority. It's also the birth­place of gangsta rap, which hints at the city's troubles. 
Political corruption is seem­ingly endemic, the school sys­tem ranks dead last in the state, racial tension is rife, and crime is no stranger in the streets. 
I

day lS 
so  grab your honey and  
head  to  hesburgh @ 8pm  
to  see  the  student  readers  
;~-­ including:  
.....t·~c.·­ luisa heredia  
....  david griffith 
.­ kathleen mcmanus  
alex macleod  

Yet, it hasn't always been that way and many people hold out hope for the future. Families live here for genera­tions, believing that land is everything and leaving means surrendering. 
"Compton still looks the same as it did when I came here in 1971," says Peter Bozanieh, the deputy district attorney in charge of Compton's graffiti­marred courthouse. 
"You get the feeling of being in the Bronx or something. A baekwater. The people, a lot of the people, are just nice fami­lies, trying to live a good life." 
But life in Compton can be cheap. "People killing each other over a small-time card game," Bozanich says. 
Crime born of poverty and despair. People stealing things like manhole covers. 
"It's worth 200 bucks for the metal," Bozanich says. 
Compton is the horne of gangsta rap's biggest stars. Dr. Ore and the late Eazy-E. 
Suge (pronounced "Shug") Knight, the head of the pre-em­inent rap label Death How Hecords, whose artists include Snoop Doggy Dogg and Tupac Shakur, has a home here. 
"That's where I get my en­ergy," Knight has been quoted as saying. "Compton's like the ocean. It's real pretty, but any time something can happen. Somebody getting eaten. Somebody lighting. Something's always going on." 
Some of Compton's racial problems stem from the fact that half of its 97,000 citizens are blaek and at least 42 per­cent are Hispanic. But no Hispanics serve on the City Council and many feel the city's black power base discriminates against them. 
Compton's history of politieal corruption was underscored with the December bribery and tax evasion convictions of for­mer mayor Walter Tucker Ill, who was forced to resign his freshman seat in Congress. 
The city's school test scores rank at the very bottom in California. The school district was so mismanaged and heav­ily in debt that the state took it over in 1993. 
At least one school board member has filed a federal law­suit seeking to regain control of the district from the state. 
Compton has one of California's highest crime rates. In 1994, the most recent fig­ures available from the U.S. Justice Department, there were 81 murders, nearly double the homicides in nearby Inglewood . In San Francisco, a city whose population is seven times larger than Compton's. 

rachel wacker doug metz & jessica maich  When the Great American Dream  

MINORITIES IN ACADEMIA A Presentation by  isn't great enough  
DR. ARNOLD L. MITCHEM EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR, N.C.E.O.A. WASHINGTON D.C. WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 14, 1996 7:00 P.M. C.C.E. AUDITORIUM SPONSORED BY THE CANDAX MCNAIR PROGRAM INTERESTED FACULTY AND STUDENTS ARE INVITED REFRESHMENTS IN ADJACENT LOUNGE AT 8:00 P.M.  Have you considered THE HOLY CROSS CANDIDATE YEAR? A one-year program at Moreau Seminary at the University of Notre Dame for college graduates interested in exploring the possibility of a lifetime of service as a Holy Cross priest or brother. Scholarship assistance is available. Call or write for information: Fr. John Conley, C.S.C. Fr. Patrick Neary, C.S.C. Congregation of Holy Cross Box 541, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (2 I9) 631-6385  

page 6 The Observer • INTERNATIONAL NEWS Tuesday, February 13, 1996 
• hAI.Y • PERSIAN GUlf 

Fast driving and fog ·cause highway disaster 
By BRIAN MURPHY 
Associated Press 

ROME 
Notoriously fast drivers and sudden fog: It's a recipe for dis­aster on Italian highways. 
In the latest epic pile-up, at least 11 people were killed Monday when 300 cars smashed in a chain-reaction that left twisted metal and gasoline-fed flames across a main highway in northern Italy. Hundreds of people were hurt, some seriously. 
The rush-hour carnage was one of the bloodiest episodes in Italy's history of fog-related highway disasters -most oc­curring in winter when fog banks roll in thick and quickly. 
"Italians tend to drive fast and should be aware of the ex­treme danger of fog," said Roberto Miceli, a spokesman for the Automobile Club of Italy in Rome. "It's one of our worst killers." 
Signs warning of fog danger are common and special reflec­tors line roads in many fog­prone areas. 
But they mean nothing unless drivers heed recommendations to slow down when fog is likely, said Miceli.The speed limit of 80 mph is widely ignored and sporadically enforced. 
The site of Monday's crash ­the A-4 highway -was a graveyard of mangled metal, charred hulks and shattered glass. 
Some vehicles were crushed like accordions. Jack-knifed tractor trailers were wedged together and cars were perched on guardrails. 
The highway, the main route between Milan and Trieste, cuts through rolling hills near Soave, a wine producing area 12 miles east of Verona where the crash occurred. 
Some vehicles went up in flames, blistering off paint· and coloring the fog with an orange glow. 
Rescuers used metal cutters and blow torches to reach vic­tims. 
The fog started to roll in at 8 
a.m. -a peak travel time. Fog often forces cancellations of plane trips in winter, adding even more cars to roadways between major cities. 

Traffic was snarled up to nine miles in both directions Monday. The highway was not expected to be fully open until early Tuesday. 
Low visibility caused prob­lems for pilots of rescue heli­copters. At least 50 ambu­lances carried victims to hospi­tals. 
The death toll could surpass the worst fog-related highway disaster in Italy: Feb. 20, 1989, when 13 people died in a series of crashes in Emilia Romagna in northeastern Italy. , 
At least one politician said the accident points out the need for more safety measures. 
"Fog is a meteorological phe­nomenon that is predictable and not sporadiC along Italian highways," said Paolo Galletti of the Greens party. 
Other nations in Europe face similar fog hazards. 
Ten people were killed in the Paris suburb of Melun in November in a series of crash­es during a foggy night. Fog is also particularly dense at times along the main A-1 highway from Paris to the Belgian bor­der. 




B RUN 0 'S 
PIZZA SOUTH 2610 Prairie Ave 288..3320 

BRuNo'sVALENTINE DINNER SPECIAL 
I. Main Course 

1. 
Rib-Eye >Comes with 

2. 
Chicken Pannigiana Jumbo Shrimp 



II. Side of Pasta 
1. Baked Ziti 


Hours of special: From 5:00 to 12:00 

Sheiks try to maintain power 
By MARTIN MARRIS 
Associated Press 
MANAMA, Bahrain 

Five years after the Gulf War, the kings and sheiks who once held absolute power in the wealthy nations of this oil-rich region are having trouble main­taining their tight grip. 
Governments across the re­gion are facing challenges from dissidents agitating either for more democracy or for a return to stricter Islamic austerity. 
The king of Saudi Arabia, sidelined by a stroke, surren­dered power to his half-brother last month. 
Qatar's leadership changed hands last year in a bloodless palace coup. 
With a bombing Sunday, add Bahrain to the list. 
No government in the Gulf appears in imminent danger of collapse, but the recent rum­blings have left the region un­settled. 
In the latest disturbance, a bomb injured four people and wrecked the lobby of Bahrain's plush Diplomat Hotel on Sunday night, the second blast at a luxury hotel in less than a month. 
The bombing capped weeks of anti-government protests in the tiny island state, a key cen­ter for the U.S. Navy. 
Sporadic unrest began in December 1994. sending shiv­ers through the country's local population -and its indispens­able foreign workers. 
"People have stopped ventur­ing into the market" because of the unrest, said D'Souza, an Indian storekeeper in Manama's picturesque bazaar who -like many people in Bahrain -would give only his last name to a reporter. 
Others were less worried. "I think most people are aware of what region they are 
living in," said Michael 
Langton, the American director 
of the Bahrain Institute of 
Banking and Finance. "The 
Middle East is a volatile place, 
and people know that when 
they come here." 
The anti-government violence 
began after Shiite Muslim op­
position leaders began calling 
for the release of political pris­
oners, better job opportunities 
and a restoration of parlia­
ment, which was dissolved 20 
years ago. 
The government accuses 
Iran, a mostly Shiite country, of 
orchestrating the unrest. The 
Bahraini leadership has re­
sponded by cracking down, ar­
resting prominent Shiite 
preachers and hundreds of 
other people. 
While the streets of down­town Manama are dominated by gleaming tower blocks that house international banks, the . picture is different in the Shiite Muslim villages, the heartland 
of the unrest. 
People live in simple concrete 
or mud-lined houses. Slogans 
spray-painted on walls 
denounce the ruling AI Khalifa 
dynasty -but are quickly 
painted over by police. 
Bahrain, the first Gulf nation 
to strike oil in the 1930s, will 
also be the first to run out of 
the black gold. Output is down 
to a trickle and the spigots will 
be dry by around the year 
2000. 
The nation of 500,000 has turned to banking, services and subsidies from Saudi Arabia, which is connected to Bahrain by a causeway. 
The Saudi kingdom has its own worries these days. 
A car-bombing at a joint American-Saudi military head­quarters in the capital, Riyadh, killed five Americans and two Indians on Nov. 13. 
Authorities have yet to de­termine who is responsible, but suspicion has focused on Saudi dissidents seeking to drive American forces out of the kingdom. 
Some 20,000 American sol­diers, sailors and airmen are stationed in the region, a legacy of the Gulf War and the American commitment to keep oil flowing freely to the indus­trialized West. 
The conservative Gulf leaders see the Americans as a shield against radical regimes in Iran and Iraq, but some citizens op­pose any U.S. presence in Arab lands. 
King Fahd, part of the dy­nasty that has ruled Saudi Arabia since it was established in 1932, fell ill with a reported stroke in November and tem­porarily handed over the reins of government to his half­brother. Abdullah, on Jan 1. Fahd may resume his duties if he recovers, but he's in his 70s and has a history of health problems. 

STUDY ABROAD 
Semester, Summer and Year Programs 
Ecuador • Spain England • France Canada • Mexico Chile •Italy 

We have started to take applications for next year. 

Furnished apartments­swimming pool-jacuzzi­tennis, volleyball, & basketball courts­24 hour laundry-shuttle bus­professional management. 

III. Antipasto, Combination Salad, Vegetables, vu•~ucum 
Mushrooms.,. 
*Apartments available for your selection.* 

IV. Soup Choice: ~Xt 
1. 
Minestrone .; <!23 ~ ~ 

2. 
Chicken ;p ;;I • 


For more information cal/272-1441. 




288-3320 
"STILL THE BEST" 
Tuesday, February 13, 1996 The Observer • INTERNATIONAL NEWS page 7 
• fRANCE • GUINEA 
Bishops argue condoms needed to prevent AIDS 

Mutiny shows support for Conte 
By TINA SUSMAN 
businesses and hijacking cars, 

Associated Press 
and shooting anyone who got in their way. 
CONAKRY 

Conte, switching from· his When the president of ti}is 
usual Muslim robes into his downtrodden nation addressed 
general's uniform for the occa­mutinous troops Feb. 4, the re­
sion, emerged from the palace sults weren't what one might 
ruins early Feb. 4, promised have expected from a mob that the soldiers a pay raise, fired had just bePn firing cannons at the defense minister they had 
1 his palace. accused of neglecting their Rather than finish the job, needs and announced an they roared support for amnesty for the rebels. President Lansana Conte, and as suddenly as the two-day It was an oddly quiet ending mutiny began, it ended. to an odd uprising, but oddities "It's almost abnormal how aren't unusual here. From the normal everything suddenly start, Guinea, the first French became," said Deborah colony to gain independence, Grieser, the acting public has had a unique way of doing 
AP/Carl Fox 

affairs officer at the U.S. things.
wild over a pay dispute. 

Embassy, which remained open While France's other West
There's little argument the

through the nights of Feb. 2-3 African colonies accepted
soldiers are underpaid -base

for employees too frightened to Charles de Gaulle's offer in 
pay for the 8,500-man army is

venture home through the 1958 to remain in the colonial
about $70 a month, compared

riotous streets. fold, Guinea's fiercely indepen­
.to more than twice that for the 
dent leader, Sekou Toure, de­
best-paid civil servants in the

To an outsider, little seems clared his people preferred
country of 6.5 million. 

normal in Guinea. Not the new "freedom in poverty to pros­
"But how can you have sym­

color TVs in every shabby gov­perity in chains." 
pathy for people who would do

ernment office. Not the tanks in Poverty they got. France
that?" said Ibrahim Diallo, who 

the streets. Not the vendors withdrew everything it had put
works at a car dealership, ges­

selling popcorn, peanuts, ice into the rebellious colony, in­
turing toward the remains of

cream and even women's un­cluding telephone lines, mili­
the Palace of Nations. "This

derwear on the grounds of tary equipment, aid and capi­
was the palace of the people,

Conte's ruined palace. ial. 
not something to be trashed by

Perhaps most surprising is Toure pursued radical poli­
our own soldiers."

that Conte is still in power after cies modeled after the Soviet
The Chinese-built seaside

the two-day army uprising, and Chinese communist sys­
complex, lavish by all accounts,

which killed dozens of people tems he admired: Farms were 
came under lire about 9 a.m.

and left his palace a charred nationalized, the government
on Feb. 2, when a few soldiers

wreck. T.he president now controlled every facet of life
rolled tanks up to its green,

works out of a military bar­and mass arrests and torture
wrought-iron gates and opened

racks nearby. were common.
fire.

If anything, the mutiny ap­About 2 million people fled
The uprising spread to in­

pears to have strengthened into exile, most from the Fulani
clude about 2,000 men, who

Conte's image and harmed that ethnic group that Toure ac­
repeatedly shelled the palace ­

of the army, which is seen as cused of trying to overthrow his 
with Conte inside -then ram­

having sat back and allowed a Malinki-dominated govern­
paged through the city looting 

few rebellious soldiers to run ment. 
By EDUARDO CUE 
Associa1ed Press 
PARIS 

Contradicting Vatican doc­trine against artificial birth control, the French Bishops Conference said Monday that the use of condoms is neces­sary to prevent AIDS from spreading. 
Pope John Paul II has insisted that abstinence outside mar­riage and lid11lity within mar­riage are the only legitimate weapons against the sexual transmission of AIDS. 
The Valiean had no immedi­ate comment on what appar­ently is the lirst time a bishops' conference has contradicted the pope's teachings on the subject. 
"Many competent doctors af­firm that a condom of good quality is currently the only method of prev11ntion. In that respeet, it is necessary," the bishops' conference said in "AIDS: Society in Question," a 235-page report. 
"Those responsible for public health, legitimately worried about the spread of AIDS and the cost of treating it, support the use (of condoms)," the re­port said. 

"The church, suspected of being totally opposed to their use, sees itself accused of working in favor of death." 
The report was written by the conference's social committee. A spokesman for the confer­ence said the report reflects the official policy of the French Catholic Church. 
Marc Gentilini, the president of a committee of Catholic French doctors, said thr church "cannot be against the use of condoms, a method that pre­vents the transmission of death." 
Even in his travels in Africa, where AIDS is rampant in many countries and wives are commonly infected by unfaith­ful husbands, the pope has re­fused to ease the church's pro­hibition on the use of condoms. 
The condom ban is part of the overall church ban on arti­licial birth control. 
Chinese ~ American 

A-: ...A. CR£AT Resta~rantand 
J; ·~-~uALL Cocktatl Lounge
.'I n Authentic Sze,huan, Mandenn & Hunan CuiSine 
Bar and Restauraunt open 7 days a week 
Lunches starting at__ $4.25 \'otl'd Bl'~t
Dinners starting at __ $5.95 l lril'ntal Rl'~I.Hir.lllt
Banquet rooms available for up yo 200 
in t\ti,hi.ln.l h, 130 Dixie Way N.,South Bend 
.\lil'hiw1u 1'\oH' (next to Randall's Inn) 



Dine-In/Carryou t  Delivery/Carryout  
52850 U.S. 31 Business  18157 State Rd. 23  6305 University Commons  
277-2121  273-1202  271-1166  



SUPER VALUE! BIG VALUE! GREAT VALUE! TRIPLEDECKER PIZZA! New TrlpleDecl\er P~ 

or Stuffed Crust Pizza 
~99 

One Medium

One Medium 1-Topping Pizza 
One Medium Specialty Pizza 


& ~2.2­
2-Topping Pizza Any 2nd Medium $5 One Medium Specialry Pizza Any 2nd Medium $5 9 
Any Specialty$1?
Add 12 Wmgs $4 
NO COUPON REQUIRED 

('lfft>rnpl1'"4/lJ/% V•hd~'lllyatparticlpdttn~unill!Sp«iilty t ~ Offcrexpires4/'!IJ/96. Validunlyatparticipati~gunils.Sperialty .e-~ t C
Offeremu-es4/YJ/%. Validonly,tnarlicipatingunits.On.rcoupon pti-USINY v.ry l'l&w lf'll'ntit'll \llUpt'll whm urdmn~ Onr ~ :: pizzas may vary. One coupon pt'l' party pt"l' VlSII. Good on Pan, : ~ ~rt"v. p<r visit. Good on Pan, Thin 'N' Crispv. and Hand Tossed Offtr 4/30/96 Vlid~ · · · ownrd \.,, 
mupun pt'f pi11Y prr VIlli (.()Uij on Pan, llun 'N' Cnspy and Thm 'N' Crispy and H;mJ T11:55l'd s.tyft.> CTWII. Plt>a.o;e menlion : ~-trust. Please mmhon orunnn when orderlroo. Not vaUd with bside.qnres f ~ ••• H !. ,R_ at p!! 11K1p~ting umls ~·-·uy
1

ILandTnwdStyltcnJJI Notvl\ltdw•thTripJ.rDeckerPimlor~y ~ • couponwhenordt>ring.Notvalidw11hTriplt!Atckerl'iwor.my ~ , ,... ·~ ~ut su lalfl'SO IUUI UNY,llll atypltWINfV"'Y·'""'' ~ tlthtf ,l(frr lNllmv ch.uxt*s rNIV apply 1/'1!.J ttnt cash m.trmptm ut • tlthtr offrr. Delivrrv Wrge_""Y annlv.. 1!1JJ ctnl cash redemptilm ut •Triplelkker Piw or any other offl'l'. I:Rhvl'l')' charges may apply. 1/1JJ vahd with any other offrr. IJI'IiVPry ~!NY apply. Palt'nt ut valur (l19%f'wo1Hut.Tr.: · 11t1 ~ value. (H9%Ptl.zatlut,lnc rr ® ~ centruhredemptionvalue.tl19%PiwHut,lnc. ® : l\onding.OI996PizzaHut,lnc 11t1 : 
......................................................................................................................................................................................................................-........................................................................... 
tHUlRP100041 
·-~ 

VIEWPOINT 
page 8 Tuesday, February 13, 1996 
THE OBSERVER 


•NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1995-96 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief John Lucas Business Manager Joseph Riley 
News Editor ................................ David Tyler Advertising Manager ........................... John Potter Viewpoint Editor .................. Meaghan Smith Ad Design Manager ...................... )en Mackowiak Sports Ed.itor ............................. Mike Norbut Production Manager .................. Jacqueline Moser Accent Editor ......................... Krista Nannery Systems Manager ............................ Sean Gallavan Saint Mary's Editor .................... Patti Catson Observer Marketing Director .......... Pete Coleman Controller ............................................. Eric Lorge 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administra­tion of either insdtution. The news is reponed as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned edi­torials represent the opinion of the majoriry of rhe Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoinr Editor, Accent Ediwr, Phow Ediwr, Sporrs Ediwr, and Sainr Mary's Ediwr. Commemaries, leners and Inside Columns present the views of che authors, and nor necessarily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's com­muniry and ro all readers. The frc:e expression of varying opinions through leners is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 
Editor-in-Chief 631-4542 Business Office 631-5313 Managing Editor/Viewpoint 631-4541 Advenising 631-6900/8840 Spans 631-4543 Systems/Markering Depr. 631-8839 News/Photo 631-5323 Office Manager 63!-7471 Accent/Saint Mary's 631-4540 Fax 631-6927 Day Editor/Production 631-5303 Viewpoint E-Mail Viewpoint. I @nd.edu Generallnformarion 631-7471 Ad E-Mail. ob~erver@darwin.cc.nd.edu 
• lHURS TO THE EmTOR 
Generating ch............... 
Dear EditQt: 

As we p&rticipated in the Pl!tY J>fthe · January 25~28, we Saint Mary's students, questioned different aspects of the quality ofllfe · Many different issues were discussed; while our groul)(dt:us.«~tt<l on the diversity on campus. This discussion was meant ~(I erate ideas to bring about change. ....... 
Our challenge became one of accepting ourselves as well as · others. We should be proud of the race and the talents Gqd has given us~ they are gifts. We formulated these ten questions from our lengthy introspective discussion. w 
We are sharing them in order to begin the process of evaluat­ing our prejudices, in hopes of replacing fear with understand· ing. We hope that you not only take the time to tho,ugJhtl)itlly answer these questions, but also talk with others responses. 
Questions about myself: 
1. 
Do I know my prejudices? 

2. 
Am I open to change/differences? 

3. 
How do I respond to racial, sexual aru:Vor religl.ous 

4. 
Willi accept a ·lesbian/gay person ~international student ~person of another race ·person of another religious background as a roommate,student in a class, or as a 5;-Am I open to inter•racial relationships~ .. 


tionships, those of my roommate, those of my . . .•..··. ..•...•..·.· family members) . . r . . ......... ·. ·· ····•·. ····· · 
6. 
What do I do to make people feel that they can't share what is most important to them? (Sexual preferences. problems, racial problems) 

7. 
What does it take for me to perceive that a <uLuu··LuiLLU event includes me? 

8. 
How do I show support for these events? 

9. 
Do I know my own heritage and do I share it with othe~? 

10. 
How diverse do I want Saint Mary's and Notre Dameto be? )iW 


These questions are not just applicable to the Saint Mary's/ Notre Dame community, but also to our communities, our states, our natiQns, the world. 
PHYLI.lS KAMINSKI, Religious Studies MARCELLA RAMIEREZ, Director ofOffice·of Mulcicul.tural Affairs MOIRA MURPHY, Admissions Councilor 
MARY BETH MAlTE!96 TRACY HOLLINGSWORTH~97 
J\NNE.POQ.ru:; '97 
ERIN EMIG '99 JENNIFER Sl'O~ 
:. . . . . 
' N'~,._.;. n ,/' ~ ,;_:•,•:•:•:•,•, ,_.'•
50111& TIP/ 
THEGtJY IWN76VEN 6/V&H/S 
~l 

Debunking the feminist myth 
Dear Editor: 
In her pertinent Inside Column decrying, among other things, the implications of Barbie's physical appearance (Jan. 29). Laura Smith makes a crucial observation about the current state of feminism in our society. Summarizing her argument, Smith postulates, "It just might be possible that if Barbie were created by a woman, even a woman who called herself a feminist, she would still have long blonde hair, big blue eyes, huge breasts and a tiny waist." 
While I disagree that a woman creating Barbie would call herself a feminist (in light of her job, to do so would constitute a blatant contradic­tion), Smith goes on to outline a sad but valid point: Women are oftentimes as much to blame as "male chauvinist pigs" for fashioning unrealis­tic, usually sickening, versions of femininity. The female editors of Glamour and 'Teen, as Smith notes, serve as effective examples. 
Feminism is a way of perceiving and interact­ing in the world that aims to combat the demeaning images as well as "misplaced norms and values" that continue to haunt women. Many of my peers at Notre Dame shrink back in virtual horror when asked if they are feminists. They are quick to answer in the negative, as if femi­nism is the plague. I believe that this seeming ignorance about feminism stems from the stereo­type which tragically remains pervasive. in our society. In other words, feminists are supposedly homosexual, anti-family, bra-burning, non-shav­ing rebels. 
Using my own life as a reference, I can attest that his image paints a harshly unrepresentative picture of feminists and the ideologies to which w·e subscribe. Such negative depictions are grounded only in fear, so I would like to set forth my view of feminism to eradicate the mysteries which unnecessarily persist. While there exists no universal or specific definition of feminism (as it differs for ever person, depending on factors as race, class, nationality, and background), I believe that it embodies three basic components. 
The first is possession of a healthy self-esteem. This term is self-explanatory; it simply encom­passes feeling confident about oneself and one's abilities as a woman. It includes eating right, exercising, annihilating destructive bodily prac­tice). participating in whatever makes you achieve your potential as a human being, and not putting yourself down. 
Your rock-solid rep­utation for fairness, I guess. Also, with your awesome investi­gative skills, you were bound to get me eventually. 
GARRY TRUDEAU 
/3CARIN61N MINI? Ya.J'R& 
SF!71NGAT 
PETER.J/311­
NINGS' 7ER.~ 
MINAL... 
The second component is utilizing-both liter­ally and figuratively-one's voice as a woman by standing up for one's beliefs. By failing to do so, a woman compromises herself and allows others to repress her mentally, intellectually, or spiritu­ally. Utilizing one's voice may be as simple !!-s vocalizing your support for the Women's Resource Center, reporting sexual harassment to the appropriate officil!-ls, or explaining to a peer why the recent internet message entitled "Seventy-five reasons why a woman should shut up" is wrong. 
The last component of feminism requires tak­ing a proactive stance against the injustice, sex­ism, and patriarchy that continues to exist in our country. This aspect, like using one's voice, encompasses the "little things' that a woman (or man, for that matter) can do to make a big differ­ence. This might entail taking feminist theory classes to learn about guiding philosophies, join­ing Student Advocates for Inclusive Ministry, learning self-defense, supporting female friends studying to be engineers, supporting female friends studying to be anything, refusing to listen to blonde jokes, and writing letters of admonition to the female editors of degrading magazines (or better yet, refusing to buy them). 
This notion of feminism does not mandate that you become a lesbian, relinquish your desire to marry and bear children, or even stop shaving your legs. If anything, I believe that his stand­point remains realistic, pragmatic, and highly effective as a catalyst for improving the status of women both on campus and in the "real world." 
As Smith challenges at the end of her column, I, too, would love to "show America that a woman can create a better, more positive image of femininity than the creator of Barbie." But the first step begins with us right here at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's. We can no longer be afraid to term ourselves as feminists or stand up for what we hold to be moral, right, and even­gasp!-politically correct. If we graduate from college unaware of our rights, strengths, and voices as women, we will, in essence, become the ignorant editors and Barbie-manufacturers of the world. I have a hard time calling these individuals "sisters." 
LAURA MERRITT 
Senior Lyons Hall 
• Quon: Of THE DAY 
"When we lose the right to be different, we lose the privilege to be free." 
-Charles Evans Hughes 

VIEWPOINT
Tuesday, February 13, 1996 
page 9 

• LETTERS To THE EDITOR 
Critic writes negative review ofRevue 
Dear Editor: have a serious eating problem. Many students starve 
l'vll been told I havP. a pretty good sense of humor, themselves, throw up, and exercise compulsively and l'vn never been accused of being politically cor­because they believe they are "too fat." rect. In years past, whenever whining letters to the While the type of insensitivity displayed by some of 
•~ditor about the Keenan Hevue have appeared in The the men of Keenan will not cause eating problems, it OhsMver, I have thought to myself' "Lighten up," and certainly creates an atmosphere in which weight vindietively smeared ketchup and salad dressing all becomes important and closely tied to woman's self­over tlw page, making a highly-caloric non-recyclable esteem. It's kind of ironic that the Revue directly pre­mess. ceded "Eating Disorders Awareness" and "Straight 
But, at the risk of having my own words coated with Talk About Being Gay" presentations all this week. foul-tasting dining hall condiments, I have to express Students who are struggling with these issues and my disappointment at this year's revue. Some of the actively working to make Notre Dame a more support­skits were highly amusing and entertaining, but others ive environment for dealing with these problems find crossed the line between humor and poor taste. their efforts undermined by events like the Revue, 
Having supported the revue for four years, I .don't which minimize the seriousness of their concerns. ever remember being subjected to such a barrage of Finally, the lack of sensitivity the Keenan men dis­crude and insulting jokes speeilically aimed at over­played towards women's issues is probably the best weight and homosexual students. We vilil'y the admin­argument against coed dorms yet offered to the admin­istration for the lack of support they give to the homo­istration. If this school ever hopes to achieve coresi­sexual community, but then hundreds of us congregate dentiality, we need to convince the university we are to laugh and cheer for three and a half' hours as the responsible, sensitive, and tolerant of difference. men of Keenan repeatedly question and attack the Events like the Keenan ·Revue frustrate our efforts in masculinity or gay students. these areas. 
Statistks suggest there are gay and lesbian students Come on Keenan, there are a lot of traditions, poli­living in evPry single dorm on campus, including cies, and anomalies unique to Notre Dame to make fun 1\twnan llall. It is sad to think these men arn forced to of on this campus without resorting to cruel highly per­partidpatll in the devaluing of a group they themsBlves sonal attacks of one's individual characteristics or may lwlong to. qualities. I appreciate your efforts to bring laughter to 
Additionally, the endless rBf'erences to women's the Notre Dame campus, but this year a lot of us just wtdght and appearance insecurities weren't evfln weren't laughing. n~motdy Pntertaining. A 19HH University Counseling CHRIS LENKO C:Pnter survny of' our fenHtle undflrgraduate studflnts Senior found that morn than one in live Notre Dame women Pasquerilla East 


Notre Dame's No. 1 Fan rallies for student spirit 
Dear Editor: ting them down, it would be I have faith this team can 
Yes, I am back once again, nice to turn that around by come close to ending with an "Notre Dame's #1 Fan." For cheering more for your own even record. I would not comp, those of you who wonder, "back players and team!!! I record to the games if I had FAITH in again?" I wrote a letter last the games and recently when I just one or two of the players. October to you, the student was watching the replay I even but I have FAITH in each and body, for not backing your heard the announcers say, every member of the team. team, your classmates, and last "Boy, the Notre Dame student They are not going to quit but not least, your friends dur­body isn't into the game, with because they are a team. The ing the games of the 1995 foot­their Irish playing with members of your team could ball season. You were very outstanding intensity." very easily say we are not going lukewarm and not at all like the That really bothers me for anywhere and just go through 12th man by cheering and get­you, students, because I love the motions, but they are the ting excited along with: "THE this university. You students Fightin' Irish. SPIRIT OF TilE NOTRE DAME need to get off your duffs and They need you and your sup­FIGHTIN' IHISI~!" show this team, your team, that port. So, not only come to the 
With the basketball season you are behind them all the games but let them hear you and our first year in the Big way. and show your FIGIITIN' IHISII East about two-thirds over, This has been a rough year SPIHIT not only to your tPam you, the student body, have not but a growing one, being in the but also show these Big East come anywhere close to "shak­Big East and only four of the teams just what kind or spirit ing down the thunder." As I eleven Big East games being we have here at Notre Dame! said before, I am not being a home. This team deserves your judge. I am just describing the full support and they are not way I see and hear it. Instead getting it! Five of the seven KEITH PENROD of yelling swear words at differ­remaining games are home and "Notre Dame's Ill Fan"' ent opponent players and cut-they are all Big East games. 
A moral media: Choosing print over practice 
Dear Editor: whieh Congress hopes to ban. success, nor of the committed Notre have an abortion. Anyone who claims to 
In tlw rwar past, Notre .Dame has been It is important to note at this point Dame students in attendance. be such a person is either a fraud or is eritidzt•d for forsaking its Catholic soul that the anonymous "rare procedure" Indeed, no mention of it was made at intellectually dishonest, utterly failing to in search of seeular reeognition as an Congress is attempting to ban is more all. Yet somehow there was room for a comprehend the fundamental basis of institution of research. Indeed, it is dif­popularly known as partial-birth abor­piece consuming nearly half a page by the Catholic faith. As expressed by linllt not to notice the elaims to serve tions. In this procedure, labor is Kara Pavlik entitled "Seek Guidance Via Bernard Cardinal Law this past Monday two of the most preerl'linent Homan induced, and the entire body of the very the Psychic Hotline," and of course for in Washington, D.C., the Church herself Catholic institutions of higher learning much alive and fully-developed baby is Jeanne Dixon's "Your Horoscope." teaches as much. in thr. nation. delivered, leaving only the head still Pope John Paul II stated in evangelium While these are admittedly strong 
Spt~dlically, I am rel'orring to tho utter inside the mother. Vitae: "An important and serious words, they certainly are far from laek of attPntion paid to the most signifi­At this point, a needle is inserted at responsibility belongs to those involved extreme or scandalous. It is little differ­cant event organized this year for the the base of the child's skull through in the mass media, who are called to ent than candidly pointing out to some­purpose of' ending the evil of abortion, which its brains are suctioned out, ensure that the messages which they so one who does not believe in the free this year's annual March for Life in allowing the "doctor" to collapse the effectively transmit will support the cul­market that they are not really a capital­Washington, D.C. baby's skull and finish the delivery. ture of life." ist, no matter how much they insist on 
In spite of the fact that the praeticc of Over 600 of these procedures are per­I am sickened by the shameful irre­bearing the title. killing unborn children is with out a formed each year. I suppose that one sponsibility of this newspaper which In the future, The Observer should doubt thfl greatnst evil facing our coun­might consider 600 "rare" when con­claims to "serve" Notre Dame and Saint truly take some responsibility in serving try today, and a practice on which the trastfld with the over 4,000 other abor­Mary's. With a popular media dominat­its readership, the majority of whom Catholic position is dear and unwaver­tions performed each and every day in ed by liberal thought, we must realize chose to attend a Catholic university to ing, this newspaper failed to itself this country, but I personally have a dif­that for a true marketplace of ideas to be educated and supported in a Catholic author even a single word concerning ficult time seeing it that way. President exist, Catholic institutions such as Notre atmosphere, not to be assaulted by arti­the March for Life on January 22. Clinton vows to veto any bill limiting the Dame and Saint Mary's must speak with cles of trivial nonsense at odds with the 
Hather, the only effort (if one can call availability of this procedure. a single voice and refuse to allow them­teachings of their faith. it sueh) it made was to insert a very The article concluded with a patriotic selves to be lowered into the muddle brief and slanted column borrowed from quote from the president of the National and drowned in the culture of death. the Associated Press. This "report" Abortion and Reproductive Rights Action I would like to make one thing clear: STEVEN HIEATT vaguely referred to a "rare late­League. The day after the March, no There is no such thing as a Catholic who 3rd Year Law Student term ...specific abortion procedure" mention was made of the turnout, of its supports giving a mother the choice to 


• I I

ACCENT
Tuesday; February 13, 1996 page 11 
l 
OMORE LITERARY FESTIVAL 

reading and poetry since elementary school and was the founder of a neighborhood news­paper. She is now married and has three chil­dnm, and has just recently returned to Notre Damn to do graduate work in writing. Maieh was inspired to return to her writing about four years ago by a poem by Mary Jo Salter she found at a bookstore. She said that it is dif'lkult balancing family life and student life, but that she is happy to be in a place where writing is supported and is very grateful to be in the program. 
Maich calls her poetry "one person's voiee, one person's experiences." She says that sometimes "tlwre is a value in just hearing many people's experienees." Maich does not consciously choose the subjects of her poems, but lets herself be surprised and pleased by them. or her poems. the one she loves most is always the one she is working on at the pre­sent. 
She plans to continue writing in the future and says that since she has started writing again she can't stop. Some of her inspirations have been Sonia Gernes, John Matthias, Vah-lrin Sayers, William Faulkner, and Mary Jo Salter. 
Two of the poems she will be reading are "I Want and I Want," and "Chinese Carry-out." She is reading at the Sophomore Literary Festival for the second time, but she has attended the festival for the last twelve years and calls it a bright spot in February and an incredible offering to the community, always well worth the eiTort it takes to at­tend. She is honored and excited to be a part of it. 
Douglas William Metz 
By KELLY FITZPATRICK 
A.:cc111 Wrircr 
D
ouglas William Metz, sonior and Morrissey residnnt, is a Communieations and Tlwatrn (Film Production) major from Linden, New Jersey. 
Student Heading Night will not be the l'irst time that Metz has read his work for an audience. lie has read for the Aeoustic Cafe and has bmm sponsored by "The Jugglnr" to perform his work. Metz has also publicly read his work in eal'ns in upstate New York as well as New York City. 
Metz is looking forward to his seeond publishing as well; he has already had poetry published in an anthology, and a second of his poems was recently selected to appear in "Out of a Maze," an anthology that will be debuting in the near future. 
Although Metz says that it is diflieult to say that he really 
has a particular style of writing, his work relleets what he 
ealls the "wPird pattorn" of his life. According to Metz, he pri­
marily writes during the most troublesome times of his life. No 
matter how reeent a difficult period has been. writing a poem 
about it is a "psychological catharsis" for Metz. llis work pro­
vidi!S Metz with the opportunity to truly put the incident 
behind him; "it's a way of saying that it's over and done with." 
His work has also been influenced by such writers as Jean 
Genet. Jaek Kerouac, Arthur Himbaud, and William S. 
Burroughs. 
Metz began writing poetry at the age of nine, later beginning 
to write lietion. lie currently is working on his second novel. 

Melz says that he will be able to consider his participation in 
the Festival as the climax of his Notre Dame experience. 
Following graduation, Metz plans to continue writing and trav­
el cross-eountry. 
Jessica Maich 
By JOE HENDERSON Accent Wrircr 
P
oet Jessica Maieh is a resident of South Bend and a graduate student in creative writing at the university. Maich has loved 

eredia 
DesPrt. California, is current­llall. Slw is also onn of this mnore l.it•~rary Festival. very thought provoking, as 
in politirs and the Xikanl 
lturn. about my culturn and thn IINI'dia. "I have bnen writ­
y junior year (in high sehooll, 
s. I just want to nxprnss my 
has eonw from tlw author of lfo Corky Gonzalez. This s culture, expresses the view 
-

•~rs can visualize these views 
work; her writing allows them 'Ords and listen closely to the 
lVtly. mt who is faithful to her eul­to enlighten the lives of oth­
• MEDICAL MINUTE 
The ups and downs of motion sickness 
By LIZA NYKIEL Medical Minute Correspondent 
Can't you just see it now ... It's spring break. and you're board­
ing the cruise liner that's going to bring you over to the tropical 
island you're going to be spending the next week relaxing and 
soaking up the warm rays of the sun. With the morning sea air at 
your baek, you stand on the deck of the boat as it pushes oft' into 
the clear, cool. refreshing, yet slightly roeky waters .of the 
Atlantic, excited for what the week will bring. Then the cmise 
liner .starts rocking. and you wonder how a boat this big could 
actually rock . .Then it starts bopping and rocking. Then it starts 
dipping and bopping and rocking. Then it's rising and dipping 
and bopping and rocking. You get the idea. Next thing you know, 
your stomach is rising and dipping and bopping and roeking, and 
you are looking quitft green. Motion sickness. It can get the best . of most of us. 
The French call it mal de mer and even the most seasoned 
travelers can suffl~r from it. In the air, it's airsickness. On land, 
it's car sickness. On Space Mountain, it's amusement park ride 
sickness. No matter what kind. it's all the same thing-that 
queasy, uneasy feeling that makes you wish you had stayed in 
South Bend. Motion sickness stems from imbalances in the inner 
ear, where various spatial assessments are constantly made and 
sent to the brain for interpretation. To help keep our bodies in 
balance. our sensory systems continually eollect information 
about our surroundings. Motion sickness results when the brain 
receives the wrong information about the environment. It is 
when our balance system notes a discrepancy between what our 
inner ears sense and what our eves sense thnt motion sickness 
can take hold, says Horst Konrad, M.D., chairman of the 
Committee on Equilibrium of the American Academy of 
Otolaryngology/ Head and Neck Surgery. Not everyone gets 
motion sickness. but for those of us who do, it can be pure hell. 
Once those symptoms start, motion sickness ean be very difficult 
to stop, especially if you've reached ihat point of no return... usu­
ally when nausea sets in. 
Much investigation has gone into discovering how motion sick­
ness can be prevented over the past thirty yeurs. Dr. Patrieia 
Cowings, director of the Psychophysiological Research 
Laboratory for NASA has been making people vomit, essentially, 
to explore this phenomenon. By using a chair which rotates as a 
person rotates their head, which throws off the inm~r ear's sense 
of balance, Dr. Cowings makes people sick, while monitoring 
their physiological responses. Once Dr. Cowings has identified a 
person's responses, usually the tensing of various muscles, 
increased heart and respiratory rate etc, she teaches them how 
to control these responses, lmiding to the elimination of the nau­
sea in almost 80% of her subjects. The results of Dr. Cowings 
and other researchers are promising enough that an aetual cure 
for motion siekness is on the horizon. 
In the mean time, or at least so that the majority of us can 
make it through our travels this March. there are a number of 
home remedies that have been suggested over the years to heir' 
prevent or at least alleviate the symptoms that aec~mpany this 
phenomenon. First of all, there are a number of thmgs yo~ can 
do prior to venturing ofT in a boat, plane, train or automobile that 
can help you. Be sure to get enough sleep, as your chance of get­. ting motion sick increases with fatigue. Sleeping in that boat, plane. truin or automobile helps too. as you eliminate f:.he amount of time your brain is aware of its confusion in perceptions. Also be sure that you don't have large amounts of alcohol in your sys· tern when you start traveling. Too much alcohol can interfere with the way in which the brain .handles the information about the environment and ean set oft' motion sickness. Alcohol can also dissolve into the fluids of your inner ear. which renlly sends your head spinning. There are also a n~mber ~>f pre~entive med­ications that you can take before you thmk you re gmng to get sick, such as Dramamine or Bonine. One or two tablets last up to 24 hours, but be sure to take them in advance, a.<> they can pro­vide no relief once the symptoms start. 
One~ your on the rol).d, or air, or afloat, there are a number of things you can do. Get your. nos~ out of the joint, ~s b~td odors can contribute to nauseu. If you re a smoker, don t tlunk that lighting up is going to calm you down; it's only going to make things worse for you. Don't overindulge with food, a.'i you're.only giving the acids in your digestive system more to make you s1ck with. Because the early stages of motion sickness involves ex­cessive salvation. which dribbles down into your stomach and makes you nauseous, age-old cures call for olives or lemons. w.hieh are going to dry your mouth out. To neutralize the excess acid that is sloshing arounc\ in your stomach, soda crackers can help. Above all. remember that time heals all wounds... your body will eventually adjust to the environment. So be patient. Things will get better. 
Liza Nykiel is a senior biology major who got her inspiration for this column from the combined 96 hrs oftraveling done on a train and a boat her sophomore year's spring break. 

page 12 The Observer • SPORTS Tuesday, February 13, 1996 
Capriati returns for Paris Open 
I 
l 
~ 
By SALVATORE ZANCA 

l 
I Associated Press 
• TENNIS 

PARIS 
Jennifer Capriati returns to tennis in Paris on Tuesday for only her second match in 2 1/2 years. It will be a lot different from the first time she played in Paris six years ago. 
"It's something I really want to do -so I accepted a wild­card entry without any kind of pressure from anyone," Capriati was quoted as saying in Monday's editions of the New York Post. 
Barely 14, Capriati made the French Open semifinals in 1990 to become the youngest semifi­nalist in Grand Slam history. 
Full of bubbly enthusiasm and innocence, she visited Notre Dame cathedral and wondered where the football field was. Asked about Napoleon, she said, "You know, he's the little dead dude." 
She was ranked as high as sixth in 1991. Now, Capriati is back at 19 after a troubled exile from the game that included arrests for shoplifting and marijuana possession and tours in drug rehabilitation. 
"I really feel excited about playing in Paris," Capriati said. "I've been working with my dad (Stefano) once again in Tampa and really feel like I'm ready to play." 
Her return starts Tuesday with a first-round match against a tough Belgian player, Sabine Appelmans, at the Paris Open indoor tournament. 
Appelmans, No. 25 in the world, is the highest-ranked non-seeded player in the 28­player event. 
''I'm looking forward to play­ing her," the Belgian said after Monday's draw. "It will be a surprise to see how well she plays. I think she must be fit if she is playing, and I am looking for a tough match." 
Capriati held the promise of becoming the sport's top star when she turned pro just before the age of 14. In addi­tion to her semifinal appear­ance at the French Open in 1990, she reached the semis at Wimbledon and the U.S. Open in 1991 and won the Olympic gold medal in 1992. 
But burnout and injuries eventually took their toll. Capriati quit the tour and moved away from her family after losing in the first round of the 1993 U.S. Open. 
She was arrested on suspi­cion of shoplifting cheap jewel­ry in December of that year, and was arrested for marijuana possession in May 1994. The police photo of a nose-ringed Capriati was published in news­papers worldwide. 

Capriati made an aborted comeback attempt at a tourna­ment in Philadelphia in November 1994. She lost to Anke Huber in three sets in the first round, dropped out of sight and has not played since. 
Reunited with her father, Capriati has been practicing at the Saddlebrook resort near Tampa, Fla. She has reportedty lost 25 to 35 pounds and is in good playing shape. 
Capriati ·has made no commitment to a long-term comeback. 
''I'm taking things one step at a time," she said in a statement last week. 
Mary Pierce, the 1995 Australian Open champion who is seeded fourth at the Paris Open, is eager to see Capriati back in tournament play. 
"We've always been close friends. We grew up on the cir­cuit (in Florida) as we were about the same age," Pierce said. "We've always stayed in contact, and it's good to see her playing again." 
Capriati could have a tough time against the 23-year-old Appelmans, who has won six tournaments in her career. She has won one indoor event. in Linz, Austria in 1994 and was a quarterfinalist at the Paris Open last year. 
[t+.:..· ···.· .,,, •::wt·· ·· 
if'l''Nlfuster surpasses 
~. ~g·~~~;tf~r No. 1 
···· .,z~:;~'"' · · .Jtr:= · · :;@::. &aociated Pte$ll ····· points to defend. 
··""'''''·'.·:};.'ill': M..·O·NTE CARLO Muster won 12 tournaments
last year, 11 on clay. Other 
·Thomas Muster. master of players, including Sampras the clay courts, overtook and Agassi, have said Muster Andr~:Agassf on Monday to does not deserve to be No. 1 
<:laim the No. 1 ranking in ten-because he has yet to prove nis. himself on other surfaces. 
Th~ ~ustrian is the 13th :;;:: Muster, 29, took exceptionplayet to be in first place since ·. · to the criticism, saying he was the rankings began in 1973. the oldest player since John However, Muster's position at Newcombe to reach the pinna­
the top of the ATP Tour may cle. not last long. "I've won one Grand Slam The No.1 ranking will be up out of 12 tournaments," 
for grabs again this week Muster said Monday in South when Muster· plays in Dubai Africa. where he played in a while Agassi and Pete Davis Cup match. ''I've won Sampras play in San Jose, the biggest indoors event. I Calif. think rve proved that I am the 
Muster had 4,474 points to No. 1. If it's one hour or one move ahead of Sampras, who week or one year, it's a big now has 4,465. Agassi. who achievement." took over as No. 1 from. Muster won two singles Sampras at the Australian matches on grass against Open, dropped to third. South Africa, his first ever vic-
The reason for the change is tories on the surface, but that the San Jose tournament Austria lost the World Group is being played a week later tie 3-2. · this year because first-round "It certainly reflects the fact 
. Davis Cup matches were that you can dominate on one j played last week. surface and play enough ten­1 As a result. Agassi lost the nis to mislead a lot of people," · 204 computer points he Agassi said after beating 
picked up for winning in San Sampras in an exhibition last Jose last year. Muster had no week in Atlanta, Georgia, 
The Observer accepts dassificds every bustness day from 8 a.m. w J p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. w j p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center . 

.­
Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classified> must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 

Classifieds 
NOTICES 
SPRING BREAK! With only 1 week to live, DON'T SLOW IT! Organize group-TRAVEL FREE Jamaica/Cancun $399 Bahamas $359 Florida $109 FREE INFO packet Call Sunsplash 1·800-426-7710 
Cancun & Jamaica Spring Break Specials! 111% Lowest Price Guarantee! 7 Nights Air & Hotel 
From $429! Save $100 On Food/Drinks! http://www.spring­
breaktravel.com 
1-800-678-6386 
Spring Break! Panama City! 8 Days Room With Kitchen $119! Walk to Best Bars! 7 Nights In Key West $259! Cocoa Beach Hilton (Great Beaches-Near Disney) $169! Daytona $139! http://www.spring· breaktravel.com. 1-800·678-6386 
Can you dunk? SportsChannel, TCI Cable and Notre Dame want to see you give up your best jam at the Michiana Slam Dunk Challenge. this Wednesday night at the Joyce Center Fieldhouse. Preliminary competition starts at six o'clock with the three winners being announced at the end of that evening's Irish women's basketball home contest. Those winners will return the follow· ing Wednesday and compete at halftime of the Irish men's basket· ball game tor the title of Michiana's Best Jammer and a spot in the Slam Dunk finals at a CHICAGO BULLS HOME GAME. It's free for everyone to participate. For more information or to enter; call the Notre Dame Sports Promotions office at (219)631-6095. 

ILOST & FOUND I 
REWARD$$ Lost detachable face· 
plate for PIONEER CD car stereo. 
Lost on 213. Should be in black 
plastic case w/ "PIONEER" written 
on it. If found PLEASE call Mark @ 
634-3489! 
--------· 
LOST on South Quad/Badin 
royal blue Adidas hat 
Sentimental Value 
Pis call x 2493 
Found: Sunglasses between Badin and the bookstore on 214. Call x1678. 

LOST: Pair of red/gold glasses at Senior Bar last Thurs .... any info call Alex the Blind x1717 .... girls don't dig guys that run into walls 
WANTED 

IMMEDIATE OPENING PART TIME SALES POSITION NIGHTS AND WEEKENDS $5.00 PER HOUR APPLY FAN FAIR, UNIVERSITY PARK MALL 
Driving to New Orleans for Spring Break and need someone to share the ride with x0979 
Need ride to Pittsburgh over JPW Please call Amy X3812 
WANTED: Good people to earn money by becoming reps for EXCEL Telecommunications. Call 299·1999 evenings. 
???????????????????? NEED A PLACE FOR THE SUM­MER? GREAT APARTMENT TO SUBLET-TWO BATH. TWO BED· ROOMS, ETC. AVAILABLE JUNE -AUGUST. CALL 273-1738. ???????????????????? 
Help! Anyone who has recordings or pictures (or negatives) from the Billy Joel lecture please call Mitch Silver (I played a song on stage) 
277-2174 
EX NO STAFFER & WIFE WISH TO RENT APT. FOR SUMMER. NON-SMOKERS, NO PETS, REF· ERENCES. CALL (941)425·4404 OR WRITE 135 LAKEVIEW, MUL· BERRY FL 33860 
BIG EAST TICKETS WANTED TOP$$$ PAID (800)269-5849 
NATIONAL PARKS HIRING· 
Positions are now available at 
National Parks, Forests & Wildlife 
Preserves. Excellent benefits + 
bonuses! Call: 1·206·971-3620 
ext.N55845 
TEACH ENGLISH ABROAD • Make up to $25·$45/hr. teaching basic conversational English abroad. Japan, Taiwan, and S.Korea. Many employers provide room & board + other benefits. No teaching background or Asian lan­guages required. For more informa· tion call: (206)971·3570 ext.J55843 
CRUISE SHIPS NOW HIRING-Earn up to $2,000+/month working on Cruise Ships or Land· Tour com­panies. World travel. Seasonal & full-time employment available. No experience necessary. For more information call1-206·971-3550 extC55843 
THE STUDENT UNION BOARD IS ACCEPTING 
APPLICATIONS!!! If you are interested in: planning concerts. running the movie series, designing cultural arts events, bringing in comedians and lectures. planning Antostal, the Sophomore Literary Festival, or Collegiate Jazz Festival, SUB WANTS YOU!!!! In addition, SUB needs controllers to help handle money, graphic designers to create advertising, and anyone interested in PR or rela· lions. SUB is the largest organization on campus with opportunities for everyone, INTERESTED??? Come get an application in 201 Lafortune or call1-77571!! APPLICATIONS DUE FEB 16 
FOR RENT 
THE POTATO HOUSE 8 BED· ROOM FOR NEXT SCHOOL YEAR ALSO 3-4BEDROOM HOMES CLOSE TO NO GOOD AREA 2773097 
••••••••••••••••••*******•••••••* **** 
2 BOA APT@ COLLEGE PARK FOR RENT FOR SUMMER ONLY. $800/MONTH (2,3 OR 4 PEOPLE) CALL SARAH OR JILL X2907 
••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••* ******* 
1 BDRM in 3 bdrm apt. Mostly fur­nished. $200/mo + 1/3 electric. Downtown. Call Alisa or Vanda 237·1840 
Irish Co. B&B Registry Stay at the "MOOSE KRAUSE HOUSE" or other approved homes. JPW · Grad. -Football games 219-277·7003 
ROOMS FOR RENT IN PAIVATE 
HOME. VERY CLOSE TO NO. IDEAL FOR SMC-ND EVENTS. 
272-6194. 

TURTLE CREEK SUMMER APT SUBLET 1 BDAM IN 2BDAM APT PARTLY FURNISHED $270/MO +1/2 ELECTRIC. JUNE THRU AUGUST CALL JOHN@634·4131 BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY 219-291·7153 
HOMES FOR RENT 232·2595 
Perfect for 2nd Semester Furnished Student Apts Heat included ·large 1 bedrm, $345 -small 1 bedrm, $270 755 South Bend Ave-1 blk west of NO Ave deposit, references 1·800·582-9320 
FOR SALE 
Pioneer AM/FM Stereo-Amp· Receiver with Dual Tape Deck. 1 00 Watts of tunes! Call John at 232·2955 today! 
---------· 
JUDAY CREEK gem. Well-maintained, 4-bedroom ranch 
with a 17 x 25 home office & 3-car garage. $154,900. 
Call Karen 272-3653. 
'89 BERETTA, V-6, auto, stereo/cassette, console, cruise. front-wheel drive, air. 
Excellent condition, new front tires & exhaust system, and new shocks. Call654·7439 (local call). 
GORGEOUS RED 1989 MAZDA RX-7 CONVERTIBLE, LOADED, LOW MILES, MINT CONDITION, GARAGE KEPT, FACULTY OWNED· $14,500-234·6332. 
1991 DODGE COLT ••• MINT CONDITION ••• 
NEW TIRES -NEW BRAKES NEW BATTERY, AIR I AUTO 21DOOR HATCH · 
ONE OWNER $4,800 OR BEST OFFER 259· 1864 
TICKETS 
DESPERATELY NEED 2 SETON HALL GA's 4·2107 
NEED: Thurs. Macbeth ticket. Will buy or trade for Fri. night. 4·2107 
/ 
PERSONAL 
0c0c0c0o0o0c0o0c0o0c0 
QUALITY COPIES, QUICKL Y!l! THE COPY SHOP LaFortune Student Center Phone 631-COPY 
0c0o0o0c0c0o0o0c0c0o0 
FAX IT FAST!!! Sending & Receiving at 
THE COPY SHOP LaFortune Student Center Our Fax# (219) 631·FAX1 
FAX IT FAST!!! 
PW Carnation Sale at Dining Halls NOW! Only a Buck!! 
•••••••••••••••••••*********** * ••••••• Sophomore Literary Festival Student Reading-Tues., Feb 13@ 8pm, Hesburgh Library Auditorium Hear your fellow domers read their own work: Luisa Heredia, David Griffith, Kathleen McManus, Alex MacLeod, Rachel Wacker, Douglas Metz, and Jessica Maich
*************•··········*············· 
--------· 
To the Dante Calabria fan, here's Drew Barry in your face! 
Oh momma momma momma come qwck I got the shakes and I'm gonna be sick throw your arms around me in the cold dark night Hey now momma don't you shut 6ut the light 
Look Foran-Grow up... stop your incessant whin· ing ... and DO YOUR JOBI!I! LIFE SUCKS! GET A HELMET! 
Gee Liz Foran is looking over my shoulder. Maybe she should GET A LIFE!!!! 
It would be a shame if some· thing ... untoward would appear in the classified ..... hmmmm, LIZ!!I!!!I!!I 
If you only knew the power of the dark side. Obi-Wan never told you what happened to your father. He told me enough I He told me you killed him. No. I am your father. No. No. That's not true! That's impossible! Search your feelings. You know it to be true. No! No! No! Luke. You can destroy the Emperor. He has foreseen this. It is your destiny. Join me, and we can rule the galaxy as father and son. Come with me. It's the only way. 
EXHIBITION UPDATE: Mel says there are bits of pepper and a noodle or two on the bath· mat. Stay tuned tor more facts about Dave Tyler's dinner display. 
HAPPY B-DAY CLARE Live it up like a real WOMAN! LOVE CBS 
Wanted: A Few Good Men Limited Positions Available! Improve Your Social Skills! Interview for Opportunity of a Lifetime! 
A selection process in progress for unique 4-hour committment with a possibility for overtime. Fringe ben· efits a plus. Call 1·800-SYR·DATE, ext 3832 or ext 3762. Previous experience a must 
Sheila. Happy Belated Birthday! 
To the Drew Barry fan, Mount St. Mary's in your face. Let's see, UNC lost. two NBA top ten picks and still manages to be a top 15 club. GTech, on the other hand, loses seven games. Before the ACC season. We'll see who's still play· ing in March (NIT doesn't cut it-can you say 1st round loss). In fact, the Heels will still be around in April. See you in Charlotte. Plus, does Drew get chicks like Dante. 'Null said. 
Jordan, Worthy, Stackhouse!!! Anderson. Forrest, Salley??? 
Props, though, must be given to Brent Barry · beacon to caucasians everywhere. 
One night of holiness doesn't make you a good girl! 
"I'm One, CK One• 
She MUST be stopped. 
BP FAN CLUB!!! No, not that weak North Quad dorm. It's the club named for the greatest point guard in the history of the NBA. BRENT PRICE WANTS YOU to join the BP Fan Club. Check Legend's Home Page for details. 
"Give me a keg of beer." ·Teenwolf. 
Brown, I tell ya, brown. 
Hey Shingler, here you go kid. Your name made it into the paper. But I don't knwo about that whole "Shingler Watch" thing. I don't want to give away NO's secret weapon. 
The Truffle Shuffle rocks. Chunk will one day be a Hollywood legend. 
...

',. .... _.f...'.. :./tt 


'li.Jcsday, february I3, I996 The Observer • SPORTS page 13 
• CoLLEGE FooTBALL 
Heisman winner George prepares for NFL dr~ft 
By HANK LOWENKRON 
Associated Press 
INDIANAPOLIS 

The NFL scouting eombine is behind him and now Ileisman Trophy winner Eddie George can think about selecting an agtmt to negotialtl an NFL con­tract. 
George was among the more than :no NFL hopPfuls who at­tnnded the NFL scouting eom­bine that coneluded here Monday. 
Now it's time for the :~0 NFL lllams to lwgin inttmsive re­vinws of the maLPrial gathered in intervinws <ind physical, agility and psychological tests conductfHI since the combine lwgan Thursday. 
"It's dnfinitely a new experi­nru:n," said George, a 6-foot-2, UO-pound tailback who led the nation with 24 touchdowns and rushed for an Ohio State-record 1,826 yards as a senior. "It's stressful, but that's what you have to do." 
George didn't run or do much physical work in the HCA Dome, a common trend among players who expect to be select­ed early when the April 20-21 draft begins. 
lie plans to conduct a full workout back in Columbus, Ohio on March 8 where he'll demonstrate the quickness, vision and cutting skills that had the Buckeyes undefeated and competing for the Hose Bowl and a national champi­onship until losing to Michigan 31-23 in the final game of the regular season. 
The senior tailback said he's been too busy to seleet an agent because of heavy demands on his time sinee he was presented with the I leis man after leading the nation with 24 touchdowns and rushing for an Ohio State­record 1,826 yards as a senior. 
"There really isn't any reason to rush and sign with an agent. N9thing happens about an NFL contract until you're picked in the draft and that's some six weeks away," he said. "I've been attending a lot of func­tions since the season ended, and an agent hasn't been a pri­ority." 
The banquet circuit is one reason he didn't do a full work­out at the combine, George said. 
"I haven't had the time to concentrate on my condition­ing. I just want to do my best when the NFL evaluates me. I didn't want to do some things here, and some things some other plaee. I want to do a com­plete workout in Ohio," he said. 
Be did undergo extensive 
.-----------------------------, physical testing here, including 
The Observer 
is now hiring for the following paid position: 
Assistant Accent Editor 
Freshmen and Sophomores are encouraged ro apply. Some journalism experience and basic knowledge of desktop publishing helpful. 
Please bring a one page personal statement to Krista in 314 LaFortune by 2 pm, Thursday February 15. Ca/11-4540 with questions. 
a second trip to the hospital for a CAT scan on the shoulder he injured as a freshman with the Buckeyes. 
"It went well," he said of the examinations by teams of doc­tors and trainers representing the 30 teams. "It's a long, tough process on your body. I feel like I played a game, car­ried the ball at least 25 times, the way they were yanking on my shoulders. Other than that, it was something you had to do. They got the job done, and I don't have to go through that again." 
George, who had no problem learning to follow blockers and catching passes in college, said he's had to adjust since finish­ing 264 points ahead of runner­up Tommie Frazier of Nebraska in the Heisman voting. 

"It's tough. A lot of your time is demanded on at banquets, and representing the university because you won a presti~i:ms award," he said. 
-, 
He says he doesn't know where he ranks in a group of backs that became deeper when 10 underclassmen declared for the draft. That group included Leland McElroy of Texas A&M, Nebraska's Lawrence Phillips, Michigan's Tim Biakabutuka and Karim Abdui-Jabbar of UClA 


~----~--~ ~ 
page 14 The Observer • SPORTS Tuesday, February 13, 1996 
• COLLEGE BASKETBAI..l •NFL 
Wallace's 18 sparks Moon trial on the horizon 
Syracuse past Rutgers 
By JIM O'CONNELL 
Associated Press 

PISCATAWAY, N.J. 
John Wallace scored 18 points and grabbed 12 re­bounds in No. 16 Syracuse's uninspired 63-54 victory over Rutgers on Monday night. 
The Orangemen (19-6, 9-5 Big East) certainly didn't look like the team that beat then­No. 8 Georgetown by 21 points two days earlier. The game was one of those were neither shot well, both turned the ball with little pressure and the better team prevailed because of a run everyone knew was com­ing.· 
Rutgers (6-15, 3-10) was somehow within 39-36 with 
9:53 to play, but as it has so many times in its first season in the Big East, it allowed the big run to come. 
Syracuse scored the game's next 11 points to take a 50-36 lead with 5:03 left. The Scarlet Knights missed six shots from the field and the front end of a 1-and-1 in the span and the closest they got the rest of the way was 55-48 with 1:41 left on a four-point play by Billy Gilligan. 
Syracuse finished the game shooting 39 percent (20-for­51), which looked pretty good next to Rutgers' 25 percent (19-for-75). Syracuse was 4­for-16 from 3-point range, while Rutgers was 6-for-26. Wallace was 8-for-11 from the field, the only starter from ei­ther team to shoot better than 50 percent. 
The victory was the sixth in seven games for Syracuse, which moved within one-half game of No. 14 Ge_orgetown for first place in the Big East 7. 
The Scarlet Knights, who lost 81-80 at the Carrier Dome ear­lier in the season, lost for the seventh time in eight games and the 11th of their last 13. 
Otis Hill added 11 points for the Orangemen, who made seven of eight free throws in the final 1:52. 
Damon Santiago led the Scarlet Knights with 14 pOints and Gilligan and Rob Hodgson had 10 each. Johnny McCrimmon had 18 rebounds for Rutgers, which finished with a 54-43 advantage off 'the boards, 26-8 on the offensive end. 
The game was originally scheduled for Jan. 7, but was postponed by the blizzard which struck the Northeast. 

By TERRI lANGFORD 
Associated Press 
RJCHMOND, Texas 

Warren Moon heads to court Tuesday to face a spousal abuse charge pursued by pros­ecutors despite pleas from the quarterback's wife to drop the case. 
The misdemeanor domestic violence case has taken several different turns in the seven months since Moon's panicked 7 -year-old son Jeffrey placed a 9i 1 call to police. 
With trial set to begin before Fort Bend County Court-At-Law Judge Larry Wagenbach, it has become a test of wills between Moon, who has refused to enter a guilty plea, and prosecutors who have threatened to put his wife, Felicia, and son on the witness stand. 
''I'm very confident that it's going to work out okay," Moon, looking relaxed, said Sunday while attending the NBA All­Star game in San Antonio. 
Felicia Moon repeatedly has pleaded with Fort Bend County prosecutor John Healey to drop the misdemeanor assault charge, saying Healey is using his authority to take a private family matter public. 
Healey refused to divulge how many times he has gone ahead with a domestic violence case despite a victim's refusal to press charges. 
"I am not in the habit of going through our records and 
Delivered free on compus 272-0970 Maternowski's flowers Visa &Mastercard welcome 
~~ 
computers to answer general questions," Healey said. 
Moon has admitted that he "lost control" during an argu­ment with Felicia Moon last July 18, but his lawyer says the Minnesota Vikings star he has rejected several plea offers. 
"They want a trial. We're going to have a trial," lawyer Rusty Hardin said. "I just can­not live with somebody walking in and pleading guilty to some­thing he's not guilty of." 
The Moons and their four children have kept their prima­ry residence in Missouri City in Fort Bend County, just south of Houston, ever since his days as a quarterback with Houston. 
On the day of the attack, Felicia Moon -a former board member for a Fort Bend County women's shelter -told police her husband struck her on the head with an open hand and choked her to the point of los­ing consciousness. 
She broke free and fled in her car. Moon pursued in a chase that reportedly reached speeds of 100 mph. Felicia Moon said she evaded her husband and returned to their home, where police were waiting. 
In the seven months of back­and-forth court filings, Felicia Moon has asked that the matter be dropped. She has said, in court papers, that she plans to invoke her Fifth Amendment rights if called to testify. 
Prosecutors have said they in­tend to grant Felicia Moon im­munity from prosecution, forc­ing her to testify. If she refuses, she could be jailed on a con­tempt charge. 
"Where The Aroma Of Gentle Spices Awaits You" Featuring 
North INDIAN TANDOORS & South INDIAN CURRIES
HA LA EAR 
Delicious Meats, Fish & 1 1 • J I . ] I _ Vegetarian Platters 
~,Cf, ~ 
Imported Indian & Other Wines & Beer 10% discount for students on Valentine's Day DINE IN • CARRY OUT • CATERING • RESERVATIONS DESIRED DlnnerTues • Thurs 5:00 • 9:00 Fri • Sat 5:00 -9:30 
::;c-~~ 

r--------------------------------------, 
~
CP(Q>WC3ffi/J~~ 
HOURS: Monday-Thursday 7:00 a.m. to I0:00p.m. • Friday 7:00 a.m. to 8:00 p.m. • Saturday 9:00 a.m. to 7:00 p.m. • Sunday 9:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. 
NOTRE DAME 2.77-1166 
Wall{in~ Distance from N.D. 
Must be 18 or older, One per customer. 
Not valid with any other offer. Expires 2/25/96

L 
i ­
I r 
• MAJOR lEAGUE BASEBALL 
Pirates sale imminent 
Associated Press NL president Len Coleman are 
expected to attend a news 

PITTSBURGH conference in Pittsburgh 
Major league owners ate ex* lowing the vote. · · 
pected to end the Pittsburgh The 109-year~old Pirates 
Pirates• 18·month search for a) franchise was pufup (or sale 
new buyer when they vote by its current 10-member 
Tuesday on Kevin McClatchy's. co11sortillJl1 of t;.orppratiqns 
$90 million ~uyout. "''and private businessmen in 
Ten of the 14 NL owners August 1994. McClatchy, who 
and eight of the 14AL OWJ.ers currently owns a minor leagu~ 
must ratify the sale.'' The team, did not emerge as the 
approval became almost cer*:M frontrun!:Ier until bafieball 
tain when the ownershi~ comw . rejected Cable TV franchise 
tnitted headed by Chicago OWl).er John Rig(l.S' ot:ft}r last 
White Sox chairman Jt;~,rry. June. · :w;. · ·'1Y 
Reinsdorf unanimously recw . Among McClatchy's biggest 
ommended ratification. ,,.... .m ba(lkers Are H.~ •• ·Hein~ C()•.· 
·McClatchy, a .33-ye~r-old: presideniAnthqnyO'Reilly ,.sacramento, Calif.• busmess:, anQ. bee'·· s 
man who would beC()J)le tM .. ,.~Fuhrer. 
mlijors' youngest owner, .and····· 
~Side 

Street Strutte 
friday, February 16 


8:00 PM Moreau Center/O'Laughlin Auditorium Student Tickets: $4; Adults: S1 0 
Tickets on sale at the Saint Mary's College box office, Olaughlin Auditorium, 9-5, Mon.-Fri. Visa, Discover, MasterCard: 219/284-4626 
Tuesday, february 13, 1996 The Observer • SPORTS page 15 
• COLLEGE BASKETBAll 
Red-hot Hawkeyes attempt to end Crisler j_inx 
Anociared Press 
ANN ARBOR 

The old Iowa llawkeyes stomped Michigan two weeks ago in Iowa City. On Tuesday, a revamped -and rejuvenated -Hawkeye team will try to break a 14-game losing streak at Crisler Arena. 
"We've changed, there's no question about that," coach Tom Davis said. 
A three-game suspension for guard Chris Kingsbury, which expires after the Michigan con­test. and Kenyon Murray's pref­erence to come off the bench has given the 19th-ranked llawkeyes (17 -6 overall, 6-5 Big Ten) a new look and a two­game winning streak. 
They might be catching No. 23 Michigan (15-8, 5-5) at a good time, since the Wolverines have l'ost four of their last five games, including last Saturday's 69-64 setback to Purdue. 
With Mon'ter Glasper subbing for Kingsbury and Ryan Bowen starting ahead of Murray, Iowa whipped Northwestern 88-77 last week and dismantled Indialf! 76-50 on Sunday, the Hoosiers' most lopsided loss to Iowa since 1979. 
Murray led Iowa with 16 

points, grabbed eight rebounds and handed out six assists while Glasper added nine points and four assists. The 6­foot-2 guard also hauled down a career-high nine rebounds while nailing the Hawkeyes' only two 3-point shots in 19 tries. 
"He knows the team needs him right now," Davis said of Glasper. "We need him more than what we've needed him before, and he's rising to the occasion." 
Murray, who scored a season­high 17 points in a reserve role at Northwestern, also had four steals against Indiana to 

They Shelled it out for your orthodontist bills. O:x.J.gllOO. it up for your car insurance. And forked it over for that fish tank accident. 
Yet they still insist you call COllect. Touched by their undying love, you spare them further expense. You dial 1 800 CALL ATT. 
I 800 CALL MT always costs less than t-soo-cot.I.ECT.* And always gets you the reliable A:I~ Netwot·k. lise it u•llellel•er you're f~/.l' ctllllfJus. 
Know the Code. 1 800 CALL ATT. That's Your True Choice;•M 

AT&T 

Your True Choice 
• For interstate calls. l'mmotions excluded. 1-HOO-COUJ'cr is a registered tmdemark of MCI. 
become Iowa's career leader 
with 187. 
"I think I'm playing well, but I know I can play a lot better," Murray said. "I feel like I'm opening up things for every­body else when I drive to the basket. I just have to keep working hard and try to take it to another level." 
He will continue to do it off 
the bench, Davis said. 
"I don't see where Kenyon would want to change," he said. "I don't think I'd change if I were Kenyon." 
Iowa appears to be playing 'better defense and getting more people involved offensively 
1:11996 Al&T 
since Kingsbury, the school record-holder for 3-pointers, was given a three-game sus­pension for unsportsmanlike conduct against Penn State. 
"We lost Chris, so we have to play together," Murray said. "We don't have that outside shot now. We have to concen­trate more on getting the ball inside. We're just playing more as a team." 
The Hawkeyes held Indiana's Brian Evans, the Big Ten's leading scorer at 23 points a game, to just 13 points, includ­ing no 3-pointers. Offensively, Russ Millard scored 15 points, Andre Woolridge 14 and Jess Settles 10. 
Nothing has worked in Iowa's favor at Ann Arbor. The Hawkeyes' last win was a 75-58 decision in 1981, although last year they pushed the game into two overtimes before losing 83­82. 
In their first meeting this sea­son, Iowa held the Wolverines to 38.3 percent shooting and created 23 turnovers in a 70-61 victory. Woolridge matched his career-high with 28 points, in part because Louis Bullock picked up four first-half fouls . 
• SPORTS BRIEFS 
Jazz Dance: A Jazz Dance class will be offered on Monday and Wednesday evtmings from 6:30 -7:45 in Rockne Rm. 219. All levels are welcome, but space is limited. You must register in advance in the RecSports office and the fee is $30. For more information, call 1­6100. Open to all ND stu­dents. 
IntercollegiatA Bowling: Any students of Notre Dame or St. Mary's who are inter­ested in intercollegiate bowl­ing competition, please con­tact Jason 4-1065. 
Sailing Club Meeting: Sailing Club meeting on Tuesday, Feb. 13, 7 p.m. in 120 Hayes Healey. General Meeting for anyone in­terested. Any questions, call Melanie Schroeder at 4­2147. 

I 'J j'lf,fjJiI 
STEAMBOAT VAIL/BEAVER CREEK HILTON HEAD ISLAND 
' PEA PERSON DEPENDING ON DESTINATION I BAW OAT£5 /LEHGTM Of STAY 
f..;.SQO..;..SIINCII...S·E 
TOLL Fll55 llolf'OI!WioT10iol &l!li511i11\11oTIOI>IS OR SUIIf OVER TO IIIII WEI liTE AT: 



~ 
I 
t 
~ 
l ­
I I 
I 
I ' 
I 
I • 
Tuesday, February 13, 1996 

page 16 The Observer • SPORTS for the Irish, as Pitt employs a in his first collegiate start,
•PGA 
three-guard alignment and while forward Pat Garrity

Hoops 
tries to engage the other team seemed to benefit from his 

continued from page 20 in a track meet under aggres­frontcourt mate's presence, 
sive second year coach Ralph connecting for 24 points and battling team so if you let them Willard. grabbing 10 boards. get going, it can be scary, but In an effort to spur the team The emergence of Hickey as 
Aging Golden Bear's 
major streak to end 
if you stop them early, it works out of its recent quagmire, a scoring threat is a welcome to your advantage." Willard has shaken up the addition for the Irish, whoByRON SIRAK be the final special exemption Panther lineup, benching vet­have been looking for someone 
Associated Press he would accept. 
Notre Dame will be looking eran guards Andre Alridge and to take the pressure off Garrity "That would be my last regu­to reestablish its advantage on Jerry McCullough, the team's and shooter Ryan Hoover.

NEW YORK lar major in a row," Nicklaus its home court. The Irish are leading scorer, in favor of a Relying on only two offensiveJack Nicklaus, the most suc­said at St. Andrews about an 1-3 at the Joyce Center in con­youth movement. weapons contributed to Notrecessful golfer the game has exemption into the 1996 U.S. 
ference play, and are hoping to Sophomore Kevin _Willard Dame's first loss to theknown, said today the U.S. Open. 
reverse that trend with four of and freshman Vonteego Panthers.
Open at Oakland Hills in June "He is in the U.S. Open this "will probably end my streak of year on a special exemption," a their final six contests in Cummings will try to reinvent friendly domains. the Panthers, although the "Guys are really starting to
consecutive major champi­source close to Nicklaus told 
"You have to win all your experiment proved unsuccess­learn their rolls better," saidonships" at 138. The Associated Press, "but he home games and try to get as ful in its debut, an 80-71 loss Gottlieb. "(Pitt) was reallyNicklaus had said last July will only go back if he earns his many on the road as possible -at Providence. rolling when we played themthat he likely would not return way in." Nicklaus will play in that's the secret to conference the last time, while we hadn'tto the British Open until it is the PGA Championship in 

play," said guard Doug Notre Dame will counter gotten any conference wins
played again at St. Andrews in August and then restrict his 
Gottlieb. "It's especially with its rejuvenated front under our belt and weren't
the· year 2000. play in the majors to the important to win this one, court, which enjoyed its most real sure of ourselves. 
Speaking today on a confer­Masters and the 2000 British because then people will show productive outing of the sea­"Now we've won some
ence call from his headquarters Open. up for the next three." son on Sunday with the inser­games and have been getting
in West Palm Beach, Fla., "I am of the feeling that there tion of freshman Phil Hickey as closer in others, while they areNicklaus said he was looking are no ifs, ands or buts about Slowing down the Panthers' the starting center. really struggling," he contin­forward to his 40th straight it," the source told the AP. "He running game will be crucial Hickey dropped in 13 points ued.
U.S. Open. will not return to the British 
And he indicated he would Open until 2000." pass up the British Open unless 
Nicklaus, however, has left a ing the Masters six times, the he suddenly improves. door open for himself in case PGA five, four U.S. Opens and By skipping the British Open his play in the Masters and U.S. the British Open three times. at Royal Lytham & St. Annes Open "should warrant it" by 
He also won the U.S. Amateur 
Golf Club in July, Nicklaus will officially entering this year's twice. end an incredible streak in the British Open, the source said. 
After rolling in a putt on the four professional major cham­Nicklaus won his last major 

last hole on Sunday at St. pionships that began with the championship at the Masters in Andrews, Nicklaus received a 1962 Masters. 1986 and last made the cut in warm embrace from the ador­"You've got to stop some­
all four majors in the same ing Scottish gallery and then time," Nicklaus said after fin­year in 1991. 
spoke emotionally about his 
ishing 79th in last year's British Nicklaus has played in the last regular British Open. Open at St. Andrews in July. four professional major "I wanted that putt,""Until this year, I had missed 
championships -the U.S. Nicklaus said. "To shoot under 
three cuts in a row. Enough is Open, British Open, Masters 
par on my last day was special.enough." and PGA Championship-143 Then I got a little emotional 
Nicklaus, 56, got into the U.S. times, beginning with the 1957 
looking around at all the peo­Open this year on a special ex­U.S. Open. He has won a record ple, knowing this would be the emption granted by the USGA. 18 major championships, tak­lastregular one." 
He said last year that it would 
Coming soon to your mailbox: the new ALUMNI NEWSLffiER with the annual ballot 
Because, as a senior, you're considered part of the great Notre Dame Family of graduates. As a senior, your first year's contribution to the University and your inclusion in this year's football ticket lottery are already accomplished. And as asenior, you are eligible to elect new members to the Alumni Board of Directors. 
That's why you'll receive a ballot with this issue. You're asked to vote for seven of the candidates. One will represent you by virtue of being an At-Large (young alum) member, and one will represent you as a Regional director. 
Bring your ballot to tne Alumni 
-~ &.I'.L•~uu..,.&.~~. Office at 201 Main Building and 
.· ;i~, · receive a Notre Dame memento of your senior year. If you prefer, you can drop the ballot in campus0 mail. Either way, be sure to vote. The work of the Alumni Board influences the effectiveness of the Notre Dame Family;~everywhere that mean erever you are, for the rest of your life. i ~;'.' 
Remember, you'll receive The ALUMNI NEWSLETTER-frel-as Ion University has your current address. When you're settled "gut there" be sure to update Notre Dame with your home and busine~~ address, p fax and e-mail numbers. Keeping us updated means you'll ,geep info like football ticket applications coming to you! :'~ 
The Notre Dame Alumni Association 201 Main Building 631-6000 






_______......._____________________________ 


'Ii.tcsday, rebruary 13, I996~______________T.:...:h~e:....:O:::::...:::.:bs=e.:...:rv:..::e.:_r_•=S-=-P-=O=-=-R=-=T.:...:S=---------------,------;;;;:::::::::::;:::::::;;;;;p::ag;;;;;e;;;;;I:::.7 
• TRACK 
Fencing 
continued from page 20

Tracksters prep for Big East Championships 
freshman Luke LaValle had 

By JAMES BELDEN 
Sport' Writer 
Tlw Notre Dame track and lillld teams took part in two dif­fnrmJt nvnnts this past week­nnd, and came home ready for nnxt wnek's Big East ( :hampionships. 
Butlnr University playnd host to both Irish squads at the Canon IV Classics in Indianoplis, while a select group from thn mnn's team travnlnd to West Lafayette for tlw Cmllral Collegiate Indoor ( :tmmpionships. 
The Irish placed ninth out of tlw twelvn-tnam finld at the Cnntral Collngiatn Indoor Championships with a strong showing in thn field events. With the Big East Championships next weekend the Irish may have been looking bnyond this weekend's meets. 
"We competed adequately this weekend, but the team was probably looking forward to next week's Big East Championships," coach Piane stated. 
Co-captain Mike Fleisch, con­tinued to set the standard for the Irish as he finished third in the shot put with a throw of 57­
1.25. The Irish have been con­sistently strong in the field events this year. 
The Irish excelled in the pole vault, led by junior Dave Gerrity's vault of 15-11.25. Gerrity has been recovering from a back injury that was traek related. 
"The Central Collegiates re­
rEARN CASH by DONATING 
You could earn: 
$30°0atter your first plasma donation! 
$1500  if you donate alone (first visit)  
+$  soo  if you show college I.D. (first visit)  
+$1 000  per person if you recrutt sumeone and they donate  

$30°0 TOTAL! Help Us Save Lives 
Must be 18 years old; proof of current address with photo I. D. COME TO: HOURS: AMERICAN BIOMEDICAL M-F: 9-6 515 LINCOLNWAY WEST SAT: 8-5 SOUll-t BEND, IN 46601-1117 234-6010 
ally went well for the men. Dave Gerrity provided some good performances for the team," praised Piane. 
"Dave's made quite a come­back since his injury," Piane said. 
Lamarr Justice provided his consistent contribution to the team with his sixth place finish in the long jump with a leap of 22-3.5, and Dan Frigo also chipped in with his sixth-place jump of 6-8 in the high jump. 
Jason Hexing provisionally qualilied for the NCAA's with a fourth place finish in the 3,000 meters. The Irish sophomore finished with a time of 8:11.09 and provided a bright spot for 
Tennis 
continued from page 20 
mains undefeated at 5-0. 
At number two singles Pietrowski battled the fifth­ranked player in the country, Gus Fernandes. Fernandes proved that he deserves his high ranking. In the first, he fought off three set points and went on to win the tie breaker 7-4. That momentum carried Fernandes take the second set 6-2. 
LSU clinched their fourth and winning point as Jose Leon defeated Pun, 6-3,7-6. Again, LSU showed why they are a top ten team. Pun had the lead in the tie breaker 6-5 but Leon battled hack and won the match with an 8-6 tie-breaker. 
In a very slow paced match, Simme and Ryan Ideta ex­changed ground strokes and battled to split the first two stanzas. After LSU clinched the victory they elected to forfeit 
What does marketinghave to do with 
public accounting? 
(the answer mayshockyou) 
!II ERNST&YOUNG LLP and 
Beta Alpha Psi 
pl'e8t'flt 

"Why I ditchedthe advertising business to devotemyse1fto 
marketinga Big 6tinn.'' 
Phil Anderson 
DirectorofM.arlLeting Ernst & Young <lllcago 
Thursday,Feb~ 15,1996 Jordan Auditorimn 6:~0 pm. All business maio~ weloome Food and Soft Drinks10llowing 
the struggling men's runners. 
"The sprinters are looking to improve, but thel"e is always room for improvement," Piane commented. 
On the women's side, sopho­more Berit Junker had another stellar performance at the Canon IV Classics as she fin­ished third in the 800 meters with a time of 2:10.42. Freshman Kelle Saxen earned lifth place with a jump of 1.65 meters in the high jump. 
This weekend both Irish squads will make the trip to Syracuse University for their in­augural Big East Championships. 
the final point to the Irish resulting in the 4-3 result. 
"I thought that we would he a bottom heavy team," Bayliss commented. "But we have held our own at the top of the line­up. Mike is undefeated and Pietrowski just lost his first match today." 
"We came out tod.ay and thought that we could win, we did not just want to be close. Two or three players have been carrying us, and now it is time for us to play better at doubles and be more consistent down low." 
The Irish schedule continues to be brutal. This Thursday top-twenty foe Kentucky will challenge the Irish. Then the Irish travel to the National Indoors in Louisville, where they will battle number three Georgia. In fact, five of the next six Irish opponents are top twenty teams, with three in the top ten. 
"We let this opportunity slip away," Bayliss said. "We need to move up from this and take another step. We are disap­pointed, but we have more opportunities in our schedule." 
perfect records for the Irish. 
"I think the meet went well," said Lester. "It wasn't as diffi­cult as the weekend before. There were a couple tough matches hut as a team we did well. We beat the teams we needed to. We had good con­tributions from our alternates also." 
The men's foil and epee team members also put in stellar performances, aiding the teams' sweep of the competi­tion. Seniors Paul Capobianco and Jeremy Siek had their expected strong performances, winning 23 matches between them for the foil team. Junior Brice Dille led the epee squad with nine victories. 
The Irish will take a week­end off before hosting the Midwestern Team Championships. February 24 and 25. 
"I think we've had a fair amount of meets and few loss­es," Lester said. "There isn't that good of competition next weekend as there will be at the NCAA's. It'll be a good prepa­ration for us." 
"I think we should do really well," said de Bruin about next weekends meet. "The only problem we had was with Northwestern. If we fence as well as we did last weekend we should do well." 
"Hopefully the team will come together for the team championships," said Auriol. "We will try to keep our rhythm and momentum this week. It's been a long month. The past two or three years the teams have peaked at this event so hopefully we'll do the same." 
LaValle, Brown and Mustilli will use the weekend off to travel to Louisville, Kentucky to fence in the Junior Olympics. 
MARDI SOIR 



page 18 The Observer • SPORTS Tuesday, February 13, 1996 
• HOCKEY 

Irish to meet former doormat Western Michigan 
By MIKE DAY Spons Writer 

How times have changed. 
Since reentering the CCHA in 1992, the Notre Dame hockey team has had more than their share of hard 
,---..----_,....,...., fought, even­ly matched slugfests against the Western Michigan Broncos. 
Sure, both Coe programs made their residence near the bottom of the conference stand­ings and neither ever made much noise in the league play­offs, but the match-up provided as much. excitement and fire­works as any. 
However, whereas the Irish hockey program has continued to struggle, the Broncos have rebuilt theirs into one of the league's elite. It has landed them a 23-6-3 overall record and a top ten ranking heading into tonight's contest at WMU. 
"They are a hard working team that's playing as well as any in the conference right now," said senior defenseman Jeremy Coe. "We know that we will have to be at our best and avoid the big mistakes to beat them." 
As if the pressure of trying to beat one of the nation's top teams at their home arena was­n't enough, there is much more riding on tonight's game against the Broncos. The 8-20­3 Irish have fallen out of the top eight teams in the CCHA stand­ings for the first time in two months and would miss the league playoffs if they started today. 

"That is something that will be on our minds from here on out," said Irish head coach Dave Poulin. "We know that we need points (two for a win, one for a tie) to move up in the standings. It's just a matter of going out and executing our game plan." 
The Notre Dame defense, led by Coe, junior Brian McCarthy, senior Garry Gruber, and junior Ben Nelsen, will have their hands full trying to contain one of the country's best offensive squads. 
To make matters worse, 

• COLLEGE BASKETBAll
I 
I f 
I 'Nova crushes Philly rival LaSalle 
By JOHN F. BONFATTI 
Associated Press 

I' 
I 
I 
PHILADELPHIA Kerry Kittles scored 25 points Monday night and No. 4 
I 
Villanova routed city rival La I Salle 90-50, the worst loss ever sustained by the Explorers. Jason Lawson and Eric Eberz 
each had 11 points for the
I 
I Wildcats, winners of eight 
I 
I . straight. Romaine Haywood had 14 for La Salle, which has lost eight of nine. I The worst previous loss by the Explorers was a 113-77 
I 
t I defeat against Notre Dame in 1977. After neither team scored in the game's first two and a half 
minutes, the Wildcats (21-3) 
' ' 
toyed with the Explorers (5-18), leading by 30 points at the half. 
f 
I 
I 
I I f 
! 
I I 
' 
Brian Flickinger's 3-pointer Villanova went on a 14-0 run, got La Salle on the board and with Kittles hitting back-to­cut Villanova's lead to 5-3 five hack treys, to assume a 36-11 minutes into the game. That lead with 3:25 left in the half. was as close as La Salle would The Wildcats finished the half get. with an 8-0 run. Two free 
The overmatched Explorers throws by Chuck Kornegay tried to play a slow-down game closed the half and gave early, but they missed their Villanova its biggest lead of the first six shots, and had four half at 46-16. turnovers, including two shot Villanova compounded La clock violations, in the game's Salle's ineptitude with 52 per­first five minutes. cent shooting from the floor in 
Ahead 8-5, the Wildcats ran the first half, including 6 of 7 off a 9-0 run, capped by a from 3-point range. Lawson layup. It was the first of La Salle shot 23 percent, and three big runs that rendered the Wildcats got 13 points off the second half meaningless. 11 La Salle turnovers. 
S.\INT ~IARY~s STUDENT BODY 
Presidential and Viee Presidential Eleetions 
VOTE: 
Tuesday, February 13, 1996 
-l!t­
In the Dining Hall:
SAINT 
7:30 am -2:00 pm

MARY'S or 
COLLEGE 4:30 pm -7:00 pm 
NOTRE DAME, IN 

H.rercise l'our Right To Choose!! 
e Te got tLe loo you ~ant. 
"Specializing in Authentic Notre Dame Sportswear." 
freshman Benoit Cotnoir, one of the team's most consistent per­formers, is expected to miss the game with an InJury. Goaltender Matt Eisler and the rest of the unit will have to pick up the slack if the Irish are to upset the streaking Broncos. 
"They are a senior based team that plays with a lot of confidence," said Eisler. "They've played well all season, and we struggled against them last time. It's the kind of situa­tion where it will take our best game to beat them." 
Senior forwards Jamal Mayters, Chris Brooks, and Jeremy Brown have provided the kind of leadership and of­fensive punch that has helped propel Western Michigan, once a league doormat, into a national power. 
Although they have not been as successful thus far, Notre Dame senior forwards Jamie Ling (31 points). Jamie Morshead (13), and Chris Bales (four) will have to step up and cancel out the Bronco trio if the Irish hope to pass Ferris State and Ohio State for the final playoff spot. 
"We need to play consistent hockey for three periods and not just one or two," said Coe. "We have been Jekyll and Hyde some times this season. They have become the kind of team that will make you pay if you don't play 60 minutes of hock­ey." 
What a difference a year makes. 


Hours: Daily 11:00 Am. -2:00 
Am -2:30 Am -Sun. Noon 
ednesday Dane 
Sound and Lighting 
1/2 YARD NIGHT 
• Free 32 oz Souvenir Glass 
lst 50 Customers • Refills $2.00 
• Starts at 9:00 p.m. 
LADIES DANCE NIGHT OUT 
• DJ Starts at 9:30 p.m. 

• $1.00 Chicken Wings 9:00-11:00 p.m. 
Corner of Michigan & Wayne Streets 
FIRST TIME DISC JOCKEY 
participate 
• 
Regulation height baskets 

• 
Call 1-6095 to enter 


• 






'Ii.!csday, February 13, 1996 The Observer • TODAY page 19 
DAVE KELLETT 
JOE MARTIN 
MISTER BOHO 


D1LBERT SCOTT ADAMS 
~------------------~0~~================~~ ~ ... ELI~INI\TE 5lCK DA.YS. 

.= u r-\1\KE THEM U5E VACATION 
.~ .; OA.'<5 W~EN THE't"RE ILL. ! CALL IT A ''TII"\E. ~.'\NK." "' 
~ IT*5 PLA"1'FUL ... ~ IT'5 CRUEL ... I 
..! ( LtK.E IT . 
" 
'#.
., 

~-------L~~----~~~*~~~~~~----~~~~ 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 35 facto 39 Chorister
1 N.Y.C. gallery 5 Personnel 40 Following 10 Nostra 
42 Egg on 14 Diabolic 
43 Squad
15 Biender setting 44 Sturgeon16 Pink-slipped delicacy11 Cozy place 45 Plotter's plot 

18 Official publication 47 Mistreat 19 Pore over 
50 "The Wind in the 20 Little Bear Willows" 22 Chic character 23 Brown brew 
51 Deere product24 Health 
54 Swiss peak enthusiast's dish 56 Senator Charles 26Entreat and family 

30 Lodge resident 32 Technique 
57 Little Flower, in 34 Jack Horner's 
old New Y,ork last words 63 Part of A.D. 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
~"--1-=-+::::...j 

RecSports would like to thank the following area businesses for their generosity in support of 
our first Valentine Aerobics class. HACIENDA 
All proceeds go to the American Heart Association in support of Amerian Heart Month. 



64 Faneuil and 
Tammany, e.g. 65 Stable particles 66 Appear 

67 Marina's place 68 Theaters 69 Oregano. e.g. 10 Unkempt 71 Republican 
V.I.P. Jack 
DOWN 
1 Waiter's offering 2 Walkie-talkie word 3 Strindberg's "--Julie" 4 Province east of 
B.C. 5 Go bad 6 Cable TV man 7 Cornstarch 
brand 8 Intimidating 9Swamp 

10 Little Joe, e.g. 11 Kind of daisy 49 "Best of My 58 Shakespeare1260's radical Love" rock title start Bobby group 59 Corner piece 13 Totaled 51 Rubbish 60 Miami's county 21 Composed, as a Girl" 
52 Actress Blakley 61 News bit bed 36 Lyricist 
53 Lum's partner 62 Pronto22 Manuscript encl. 37 Ditto 55 Hot-blooded 64 Unnamed fellow 25 Mideast rulers 
38 Frankfort on the 26 H.S. jr.'s exam 27 Singer Lovett 41 Like many 
Get answers to any three clues
28 Word following interstates 
by touch-tone phone: 1·900·420·
don de 46 Noted nightclub 29 Little Boy, e.g. 48 Sgt.'s superiors 5656 (75¢ each minute). 
• J 
YOUR HOROSCOPE JEANE DIXON 
HAPPY IIIRTHDAY! IN THE NEXT YEAR OF YOUR LIFE: Be honest about your expectations. Otherwise. hidden resentments could undermine a close relation­ship. Someone in authority may not be aware of your special talents. Look for ways to showcase them. A promotion or new job perk is fea­tured in August. Real estate inve:;t­me•Hs are favored throughout the :·>~II. Decide what you want most and ~.o afl•!r it' Break with tradition and ,;,Jenc1 the winter holidays in an ·:ntireiy different w:ty. 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: record-setting pilot Chuck Yeager, actress Kim Novak, ?otf great Patty Berg. opera singer hlr.<.'n Farrell. 
.i.RIES (March 21-April 19): You have more options than you realize. Check carefully to see that nothing has been overlooked. A vis­itor from abroad offers wise advice: fc'low ir! Show your appreciation f\lr ~· favo, i!·. tangible ways. 
Tt<.~:'.l.l~. ,·~_mil 20-May 20): A11 oid~~-'nd:·.. ~.:inal tnay trv to ~--:;:po~.c .:''1:1:· ef!'o1 ;.~·· )li·a:·r,.hter: vui Y"";;)' ,,:>sJ:·c ..·,·~;,_t!r.rlrr::!•: 'vlt!l your r; c _,...,t.,~ 1 ,.c ~ t·:'.!to:·• ~ :!..~Y cscahl!C. ·:ou w;n b;g whe,; ;;n1 m:tke •he first move! Show more trust in a young person. 
GEMINI (May 2 I -June 20): Past efforts begin to pay off. Enjoy the fruits of your labor! Business trips are productive if you see key people. A plan you implemented recently is working out well. Con­tinue to curb spending. 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): An investment opportunity may have you puzzled. Seek more information before making up your mind. A friend who owes you money may try to borrow more! Say "no." Reading books enhances your vocabulary. 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): When you speak. others listen attentively. 
• OF INTEREST· 
"Ethical Responsibilities of Multinational Corporations for Global Power Imbalances" is a lec­ture given this afternoon at 4;15 p.m. by Lee Tavis, professor of finance, School of Business Administration, University of Notre Dame. The lecture will be held in the Hesburgh Center Auditorium. The Marist Volunteer Program offers a variety of 
-
service opportunities in the U.S., its territories, and .Mexico. Br. Frank Kf'lly will hold general information sessions at the Cf:!nter for Social Concerns today at. 
4:30 p.m. and at 7:30 p.m. Interviews on Wed., Thurs., and Fri.. "Minorites In Academia", a presentation by Dr. Arnold Mitchem Executive Director, N.C.E.O.A. Wash.• 
D.C. will be given tomorrow night at 7:<)0 p.m. in the 
C.C.E. Auditorium. It will be sponsored by the Candax McNair Program. Interested faculty and stu· dents are invited for refreshments in adjaeent lounge at 8:00p.m. "Night & Fog/A Propos de Nice" and ''Alpphaville" will be playing at 7 and 9 p.m. respectively tonight in the Cinema at the Snite. The cost is $2. "Embracing the Current Crisis/Building for the Future!" at New Wings of' Faith Church (The Sunday Place To Be). Located in the Historic 100 Center Complex, 100 N. Center Street, Mishawaka, Ind. Service times are Sundays 9:30 a.m. and 6:00 p_m, Phone 219·271-8362 for mor~ information. 
•MENU 
Notre Dame Call 631-0111 for information 
Saint Mary's Call 284-4500 for information 
Celebrate a friend's birthday with a special Observer ad. 
Use your well-known powers of persuasion to auain greater financial security. Your magnetic personality auracts both influential people and new funding. 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Business associates will be impressed by a bold approach. Do what you can to nurture an impor­tant professional relationship. Good ideas and streamlined procedures will move things forward. 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Rap­port may be difficult to establish today; accords could stall. Stick to tried-and-true strategies. You have the vision needed to shepherd a win­ning project to completion. 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21 ): Others may be overly optimistic today. Verify a pledge before·pro­ceeding. Promise only what you know you can deliver. Striking a better balance between work and play will restore domestic harmony. 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21 ): You receive encouraging news. Do not be afmid to show your feel­ings. To stay within a budget, make certain you really need the sale items you purchase. Tread lightly in 10mance. 
CAPRICOR:-.1 (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): G!ve top priority to intellectual pursuits. Tasks that challenge yc:1r mental prowess give you a feeling of accomplishment. Heed the advice of a trusted elder. 
AQUARIUS !Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Allow extra time for nips and meet­ings. Your skills as a mediator are sorely needed. Take control of your financial destiny. A family member could introduce you to someone who is perfect for you! 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Smarten up! Do not let a critical alti­tude or irritable mood rock your love boat. Patch up a deteriorating relationship with your sensitive touch. 

J!f!J Jolt $1AR. S1tAKeJI(!J'U$t 

SPORTS 
page 20 
• MEN'S TENNIS 

Tenth-ranked Tigers too much for Irish 
LSUsweeps doubles to edge ND 4-3 
ByJOECAVATO Sports Writer 

For the third time this season 
the Notre Dame men's tennis 
team was tested by a top 25 
team contender. But the third 
time definitely did not prove to 
be a charm. 

The Louisiana State Tigers handed the Irish their first loss of the season 4-3. LSU, ranked tenth in the nation, will contend for the national title this sea­son. 
LSU got off to a fast start as they swept the doubles match­es. "I thought we played poorly in doubles," head coach Bobby Bayliss observed. "We had breakdowns and did a lot of fundamental things wrong." 
Zak Blanchard and Pedro 
Braga outlasted Sprouse and 
Jason Pun in the number one 
doubles position, 8-6. Jakub 
Pietrowski and Brian Harris fell 
8-2 to the Tiger's second­
ranked team. Ryan Simme and 
John Jay O'Brien dropped their 
match in the third doubles 
match to Jose Leon and Gus 

Irish forward Derrick Manner (above) and reserve guard 
opportunity for getting going 

Keith Kurowski (right) will look to slow down the agres­sive Pitt attack, which focuses on the running game and again," said Irish forward uses a three-guard set. The Panthers' have struggled to Derrick Manner. "They're a 
a 4-8 mark in the Big East and have lost eight of their 
last nine games. 
Fernandes. 
Another setback for the Irish occurred off the court for the Irish during the doubles match­es. O'Brien came back from Davis Cup action and was stricken with strep throat. The decision for him not to play was 
made just after his  doubles  
match.  Harris took  O'Brien's  
place in the lineup.  

"I don't know if not having John made a difference or not," Bayliss mentioned. "I have confidence in Brian. He has been in that situation before and has responded well." 
The Irish scored their first point when freshman Brian Patterson took both sets from Zak Blanchard 6-4, 6-2 in the number four singles match. Patterson jumped ahead in the first 5-0 and then closed out the match by winning seven of the next nine games to prove once again that he is a force in divi­sion one tennis. Patterson's win pushed his dual match record to 4-1. 
In the sixth singles spot senior Harris dropped his match 6-4, 6-3 to a very good player in sophomore Eduardo Villagomez. 
Captain Mike Sprouse contin­ued his stellar play as he de­feated Pedro Braga, a pre-sea-. son all-American. In the first stanza Sprouse fell behind 0-2, but then came back to win the "One of the pleasant surprises set 6-3. Sprouse dominated in all of college tennis has been play with his big serves and Mike Sprouse," Bayliss raved. clutch. shots. Sprouse's scored Sprouse now has beaten three the Irish second point as he top tw{)nty-five players and re-went on to defeat Braga 6-3, 6­


3. see TENNIS/ page 17 
Pitt offers hope for win 
By TIM SEYMOUR Associate SportS Editor 

Slumping Panthers Notre Dame could not wish for a better opponent as it
visit JACC tonight 
tries to break its most recent skid and regain dominance of its home floor. Or a more dangerous one. 
Pittsburgh staggers into the Joyce Center tonight for a 7:30p.m. tip the not-so-proud owners of a 9-11 ( 4-8) record that includes a skein of eight losses in its last nine games. 
Yet as the Irish have found out, there are no certainties in the realm of conference play. 
Like St. John's, which knocked off the Irish at home on Sunday, Pitt has under­achieved this season. Notre Dame must hope that the Panthers do not finally reach their potential tonight. 
"After seeing the St. John's game, (Pitt) may be thinking about coming here as an 
see HOOPS/ page 16 
.FENCJNG 
Fencers dominate Duke 
By WILLY BAUER Sports Wrirer 
Devastating. Crushed. 
Destroyed. 
That about describes the 
Notre D · fencing team 
and what it did to its oppo­n e n t s ·a· f t e r compet­ing in its last meet 
o.f the Shannon year at Duke University over the weekend. 
"It was a really good 
weekend," said coach Yves 
Auriol. "The teams fenced 
very well. Overall. we 
fenced better than we have 
all season. The competition 
was not that strong but 
looking at our results we did 
well. The women destroyed 
Duke and North Carolina. 
The men's foil team was 
solid but didn't do to well 
against Duke. The men's 
epee team is. still struggling 
but showing improvement." 
Freshman Myriah Brown 
stood out among her foilist 
peers with a undefeated 
performance over the week­
end. Brown, flawless in 20 
matches, helped the Irish 
slice through its competi­
tion. Classmates Nicole 
Mustilli and Sara Walsh only 
lost one match each. 
Walsh's loss was her first 
and only of the regular sea­
son. 
The women's epee team 
was almost as dominating as 
it ran through its opponents. 
Unlike the foil team which 
relied on it~ freshmen, the 
epee squad was led by its 
older members. Senior 
Claudette de Bruin went 15­
1 and classmate Ashley 
Shannon was 18-2. The 
weekend was highlighted by 
a 16-0 team victory over 
Duke. · 
"The meet went really 
well," said de Bruin. "I was 
really impressed with my 
team. Everyone really 
stepped up this weekend." 
The men's sabre squad was back to form after sQme tough matches in Boston, as it cut up its competition. The team lost only seven matches the whole week­end. Senior Bill Lester and 
see FENCING/ page i 7 


Men's Basketball Women's Tennis 
vs. Pittsburgh, February 13, 7:00p.m. 
vs. Tennessee, February 15, 7:00p.m. 
Women's Basketball 
Men's Tennis 
vs. Villanova, February 14, 7:00p.m. 
vs. Kentucky, February 15, 3:30p.m 
Hockey 
SMC Sports 
at Western Michigan, February 13, 
Basketball vs. Calvin, February 13, 
7:00p.m. 
7:00p.m. 
•.Hockey prepares for CCHA foe 
see page 18 
• 
Weekend track results see page 17 

• 
Capriati prepares to return see page 12 



~ 






