Notre Dame 
Observer 
07251342 
1111111111111111111111111111111111111111 
038390 
Box: 42 
Volume: 27 
Issue: 69 
Day: Wed 
Date: 1/17/1996 12:00:00 AM 
Notes: 
Issue # Missing (may not exist) : 
Issue # Missing (probably not published) : 



Wednesday, January 17, 1996 • Vol. XXVII No. 69 TilE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
burglaries mar holidays 
By LIZ FORAN 
Assoliatc News Editor 
/\ number of student apart­ments and houses were broken into in the areas around cam­pus over Christmas break, ac­cording to reports from the South Bend Police Department and Notre Dame Security. 
Fourteen apartments in the Campus View apartment com­plex and another three in the Turtle Crnek complex were bro­ken into over break. with vary­ing amounts of items. missing. 
At least two houses on Notre Dame /\venue were also broken into, although loss was mini­mal. Orw of the houses had a door foreed open, but the only itnms missing amid eomputnrs and sternos were two eoffee ta­bles. 
.Joe Taylor, who lives in Cam­pus ViBw Apartments, had a St~ga systmn, a phone and some Kit Kat eandy bars missing, along with other minor things. "W1~ kenp fint.ling little things missing," he said, "but they didn't take very much. It was probably a bunch of 15-year­old kids." 
Doreen Muszer, manager of Campus View apartments. said that security was on duty dur­ing the breaks. 
Turtle Creek manager Beth llofTman said that apartment staff made daily rounds of the property to make security eheeks on all the apartments. "We found the three that were broken into the morning after they happened. 
"The police assume that it is the same group of people who were doing all of the break­ins," she said. 
"But we have about twice the number of units that Campus View has, and we only had three broken into, and that was about two weeks before the ones in Campus View. " 
Both Muszer and Hoffman said police stepped up patrols and cheeks in the area over brnak, and the inereased pres­ence may have prevented more loss and damage. 
Chuck Hurley, assistant direc­tor of Notre Dame Security. said Notre Dame Security increased perimeter patrols of 
see THEFTS/ page 4 


The Observer/Mike Ruma 
Snow failed to stop burglaries in the Campus View and Turtle Creek apartment complexes over winter 
break. · 


Seniors raise funds for Abdo 
By KRISTI KOLSKI 
Assi,tant New> Editor 
In an nf'f'ort to help injured Notrt~ Dame senior Mandy Abdo. tlw stmior dass. Siegfried llall residents and friends from /\bdo's homn-state of Minnesota organiztHI a raflle at the Senior Bar Monday twening that raised $:L1JH5. 
/\hdo. who was seriously in­jurnd in a ear aeeidnnt in Novmnhnr of last smnester. has lwn11 nwvt~d to a hospital in Minrwupolis. 
Thn rnorwy will lw used to buy Abdo a laptop eomputer so she will have access to e-mail through her duration in the hospital, according to Senior Class President Kevin Kuwik. 
Brent Tadsen, a friend from Minnesota, donated several framed collages of members of the Notre Dame football team and coach Lou Holtz for the raf­fle. 
Some of the senior sports managers donated t-shirts and hats. 
The senior class is in the pro­ees~-> of setting up a permanent fund for Abdo. 

"We are going to try to do something once a month at Se­nior Bar to maintain aware­ness," said Kuwik. 
Fund raising organizers are working toward garnering enough money to purchase a $25,000 voice activated/eye­gaze system computer to be presented to Abdo at gradua­tion. 
"Our class has had a few un­fortunate events this year and it is good to see everyone rally around someone beset by such an accident," said Kuwik. "It's the least we could do." 
Mosquito expert Craig dead of heart attack at 65 
From staff and wire reports 
George Craig Jr., Clark Pro­fessor of Biology at Notre Dame and one of the world's foremost experts on mosquitoes, died 
Dec. 17 while attending a meeting of the Entomological Society of America in Las Vegas, Nev. Craig, a resident of 

South Bend, Craig was 65. The cause of death was a heart attack. 
A memorial mass for Craig will be celebrated at 5:15 p.m. today in the Basilica of the Sa­cred Heart. University Presi­dent Emeritus Father Theodore I Iesburgh will preside. 
Craig devoted his life to studying the insect which the general public does not consid­er potentially harmful in order to develop strategies to combat the pests' disease spreading abilities. He examined their breeding habits, their behavior, their genetics, and their sen­sory systems in the course of his nearly 40-year academic career at Notre Dame. 
He was a fellow of the Na­tional Academy of Sciences, and a recipient of the the Na­tional Insitutes of Health's Merit Award for the superior competence and productivity of his research. Craig received 35 years of continuous funding for his investigations of mosquitoes and their disease-carrying ca­pabilities. 
Craig was particularly expert in the Aedes genus, whose members comprise over 800 of the more than 3,000 species of mosquitoes. Aedes mosquitoes transmit yellow and dengue fever and encephalitis, which can be fatal to humans. 
Last year, Craig directed re­search investigating an out­break of eastern equine enchepalitis in the Michian area that killed an Elkhart tod­dler and several area horsos. Also in 1995 he led teams of researchers looking into a dengue hemorraghic fever that crossed into the United States from Mexico and a LaCrosse encephalitis outbreak in West Virginia. 
Craig joined the Notre Dame faculty in 1957, as an assitant professor in the Vector Biology Laboratory. Until 1975, Craig studied the genntics of Aedes aegypti, demonstrating the ge­netic basis of traits central to the understanding of disease transmission and mosquito control. Under his dirnction, Notre Dame-aiTiliatnd scientists carried out 80 percent of all ge­netic research on the species. 
When the disease-carrying Asian Tiger mosquito arrived in the U.S. in 1985. Craig was outspoken in his criticism of government failure to control the spread of the highly cl'fec­tivn transmitter of disnase. lie maintained the Federal Gov­ernment ignored warnings about the species and took little action to contain it. 
"Their position is to wait for an epidemic and then do some­thing about it, "he said. "That's like jumping out of the Empire State Building and saying you're all right 99 percent of 
see CRAIG/ page 4 

The Observer/Brent Tadsen 

The rivalry continues 
Despite Irish dommance throughout the majority of the Jan. 1 FedEx Orange Bowl, the Florida State Seminoles topped the Irish for a final score of 31-26. See Irish Extra for related stories. 
page 2 The Observer • INSIDE Wednesday, January 17, 1996 


• WORW AT A Gt.AMCE 

Nutritionists watch what America eats 



Robbed 
of 

'community' 
Welcome back to John Potter South Bend, and wel-Advertising Manager come back to Notre Dame! We hope you enjoyed your vacation. Oh. you went to the bowl game? So did I! Did you see your grandmother in Boca? Bummer. You got robbed over break? Hey, so did I! Small world. eh? 
This may seem cynical, but on the contrary the conversation is all too real. As you all now know, about twenty student apartments or houses were broken into over winter break. Not a bad follow-up to the four houses that were robbed during the short week between summer session and the fall semes­ter in August. 
The student lifestyle at Notre Dame is con­spicuously susceptible to crime. Leaving a light on, holding your mail and the newspa­per, putting lights on timers. or leaving a radio on are fantastic ideas that do little to hide the apparent absence of the student body during University breaks. 
The University has been here for over 150 years, and even the dumbest of the dumb could by now figure out when we leave and when we come back. What can be done to help protect the student body that must live off-campus? The University cannot house every student, so shouldn't the University share in the responsibility to protect us? 
Some complexes have taken the initiative on there own. Lafayette Square, once a crime­bound complex. installed ADT Security sys­tems and a nightly security guard. Did it help? You bet. Campus View added a securi­ty guard until the break was over and replaced fourteen broken doors. That isn't enough. 
So who should assume the obligation to pro­tect the student body? We can only do so much as individuals to protect ourselves. Sure we could live on-campus, but then others would still have to live off-campus as fresh­man still live in study lounges. 
So let's think. Notre Dame is the largest employer in South Bend? Notre Dame injects how much money into the Michiana economy? Notre Dame has a billion dollar endowment and receives $20,000 a year per student? 
Notre Dame has power and money. Use it! We are all part of the 'community' as far as duLac is concerned when we live off-campus, but not when security is concerned. The apartment complexes that were robbed are less than one hundred yards from University property! The houses are even on Notre Dame Avenue! 
Speculation continues about the thieves, although the fact that such a variety of things were stolen (ranging from KitKats to a bed­frame and mattress) indicates that they had a heck of a lot of time and no particular inter­ests. They even stopped to watch a porno movie and drink beers in one apartment. Then they went next door for a cigarette. No joke! 
If someone were paying attention, the thieves probably would be in jail. While it is the responsibility of the complex owners to provide secure living environments for ten­ants, the University can and should exert a more serious effort. We have the ability. and now the apparent need for such action. 
Attention Golden Dome:-Help the students! We do not have the influence. Individuals are only here for a finite period of time-the University is the grandmother of South Bend. Please, help take care of your flock. You pro­tect us from ourselves; now help protect us from those elements beyond our control. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

WASHINGTON Americans are eating four times as Eating habitS 
much Mexican food and three times as much popcorn and pretzels as they did 
Americans eat less fat today than in the
two decades ago. 
1970s, but far too little nutritious food.
We are managing to eat less fat, but 
On any given day, halfthe people surveyed
putting on the pounds anyway. ' ate no fruit. An Agriculture Department survey of 5,500 Americans in 1994 found that 
Grainshalf ate no fruit on a given day. 
including 
pizza, pasta,
They readily passed up dark green Mexican food and deep yellow vegetables, despite offi­... Up 100 percent cial advice to eat more. 
One in three adults was overweight. Soft drinks Children were getting off to a sweet Consumption by start, switching from milk to soft drinks children under 5 
...Up 23 percent
or apple-based juices. The survey came out two weeks after 
Snack foodthe government issued updated guide­lines telling people to eat more grains, 
... Up 200 percent
eat five helpings of fruits and vegetables a day and try to get 30 minutes of mod­Fat • erate exercise a day. WDown 7 percent
Americans did report eating a lot more grain, but that category included Milk a 200 percent increase in snacks and a Consumption by children under 5 
]

60 percent increase in ready-to-eat V Down 16 percent cereals. The reported tripling in snack foodsSource: Department of Agriculture AP 
such as crackers, popcorn, pretzels and corn chips astonished even the industry. 
"Wow!" said Jane Schultz. of the Snack Foods Association, based in Alexandria, Va. The industry estimates that the average American ate 22 pounds of salty snacks in 1994, up from 
17.5 pounds in 1988. 
But the industry numbers don't go any farther back. "I wouldn't say it's out of the realm of possibility," she said. 
The most progress came in the fat department, where the message to lower consumption has been around the longest. Americans got 33 percent of their calories from fat in 1994, down from 40 percent in 1977-1978, but still above the recommended 30 percent. 
Two-thirds of adults got more than the limit for all fats. Nearly as many got more than their limit for saturated fat, set at 10 percent of daily calories. 
Based on those measurements, one in three adults was overweight, compared with one in five in the 1977-1978 sur­vey. 
"The calories have gone up some, but what we think is important also is that people aren't exercising," Borrud said. 
First lady prepared to testify 
LITTLE ROCK, Ark. 
Besieged by questions over her role in Whitewater and the White House travel office firings. Hillary Rodham Clinton said today she is prepared to testify before Congress but hasn't dis­cussed it with the president. "I will do whatever it takes to cooperate," she said. Regarding testifying before the Senate Whitewater Committee, Mrs. 

Clinton said, "I can't imagine anything worse, especially since you have no idea what the questions are. These people think they can come out and ask me anything." Asked if President Clinton recommends she testify, she replied: "I don't know. I haven't really asked him about that. His attitude is just keep telling what happened." In recent interviews, the first lady has been questioned about her role in the controversies, particularly disclo­sures in the past couple of weeks. 
Justice Department approves merger 
WASHINGTON 
The Justice Department said today it will not challenge the proposed $10.3 billion merger of the nation's 14th and 20th largest banks after they agreed to divest about $170 million in deposits. First Bank Systems, Inc. of Minneapolis, with 360 offices and about $21.9 billion in deposits. plants to purchase First Interstate Bancorp of Los Angeles, which has more than 1,000 offices and $48.2 billion in deposits. The Justice Department said it notified the Federal Reserve it has no antitrust opposition to the merger. The Fed is still reviewing the proposed deal. First Bank Systems has assets of $33 billion; First Interstate has total assets of $55 billion, the Justice Department said. The Justice Department said the divestiture resolved its antitrust concerns that First Bank's purchase would lessen competition for banking services available to small and medium-sized businesses. "This acquisition could have reduced competition and caused businesses to pay more for banking services in these three markets," said Anne K. Bingaman, assistant attorney general in charge of the antitrust division. 
Extremes rule current politics 
WASHINGTON 
Maine Republican Sen. William Cohen's surprise decision to retire -in mid-career and in no obvious electoral jeopardy -is fresh evidence that modern­day politics is squeezing the moderates out of Washington. "The extremes dominate," said Democratic Sen. Joseph Lieberman of Connecticut, active in trying to shove his own party toward the cen­ter. "That can't go on for long with a government hop­ing to hold the trust of the American people." Lieberman's sobering prediction is for the political sci­entists to debate. Or perhaps for the voters to influ­ence. Their fascination with Ross Perot, Colin Powell and now Steve Forbes attests to an eagerness for something new in presidential politics. In all, 13 sena­tors of both parties have announced plans to retire, a record number. The roster is heavily tilted toward minority Democrats. and toward moderates of both parties. 
Ireland peace report postponed 
BELFAST, Northern Ireland 
The American-led commission working to get peace­making moving again in Northern Ireland will delay its much-anticipated report until next week. The com­mission led by George Mitchell, a former Senator from Maine, is putting together recommendations on how to revive a process deadlocked by disagreement over disarming Northern Ireland's rival paramilitary camps, the IRA and pro-British "loyalists." The three-man panel said Tuesday that it would release its recommendations Jan. 24 in Belfast, and not Thursday as originally planned. The postponement followed a spate of hastily scheduled meetings this week in Belfast and Dublin, the Irish capital. The commission met late Monday with Gerry Adams, leader of the IRA-allied Sinn Fein party. In their statement, the commissioners said they would begin this weekend "to review the enormous volume of material they have accumulated. to consider carefully the issues among themselves, to make their final deci­sions and to write the report." 


News  Graphics  
Hearher Cocks  Tom Roland  
Maureen Hurley  Production  
Allison Fashek  
Sports  Jackie Moser  
Joe Villinski  Lab Tech  
Karhleen Lopez  Brenr T adsen  

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacarion periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 

Wednesday, Jan.17 
AccuWeather"' forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 

The AccuWeather®forecast for noon, Wednesday, Jan. 17. Lines separate high temperature zones for the day. 

........................... 

COLD WARM STATIONARY 
C 1996 AccuWealher, Inc. 

Pressure ~ 
H L B 5S'IITIJ 0 ~(31:) ~U 
HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PTCLOUDY CLOUDY 
ViaAssoclaledPI&SS 

Atlanta 57 47 Dallas 46 44 Milwaukee 39 35 Baltimore 44 41 Dayton 56 45 Nashville 60 55 Boston 53 42 Ft. Lauderdale80 71 Princeton 53 36 Calgal)l ·2 ·6 Helena 5 ·14 Seattle 39 28 Chicago 45 42 Las Vegas 55 37 Yo.1kers, NY 52 38 

Joyce, Hesburgh remember Notre Dame alumnus 
Observer Staff Repon 
lloward Phalin, a trustHe and bnrwfaetor of the University, dind January 11. 
A 1928 Notre Dame alumnus, l'halin and his wife, Evange­linn, who died in 1987, pro­vidml the funds for the "Word of Li fn" mosaie on the south fa­eadn of the llesburgh Library and for the reecnt restoration of the 19th eentury stained glass windows in the Basilica of the Saernd lleart. 
l'halin sP.rved on tllll Univer­sity's advisory board of lay trustees beginning in 1964. When governance of Notre Dame passed to a newly-eonsti­tu ted board in 196 7, he became one of its charter members and served in that role until his eleetion as a life trustee in 1974. He also was a member of the advisory councils for the University Libraries and the College of Arts and Letters. 
Phalin retired in 1968 as chairman of the board of Chicago's Field Enterprises Educational Corporation, pub­lisher of World Book. lie also received an honorary doctor of laws degree from the University in that same year. 
The Phalins had no children. 
The funeral Mass for Phalin was eelebrated Monday at St. Patriek's Church in McHenry, Ill. Fr. Theodore Hesburgh, president emeritus of Notre Dame, and Fr. Edmund Joyce, executive vice-president emeri­tus, presided at the Mass. 
1996-97 RA APPLICATIONS 


Are Now Available Office Of Student Affairs 31 S Main Building 
Through Friday, Januaryl9, 1996 

By RAY LONG 
Associated Press 
SPRINGFIELD, Ill. 

An abused wife who had de­manded she be put to death for killing her husband was spared Tuesday by Gov. Jim Edgar hours before she was to be­come the second woman exe­cuted in the United States in at least 20 years. 
Guinevere Garcia apparently had had a change of heart: 
Please recycle The Observer 

"Thank God that this has hap­pened," her lawyer quoted her as saying after Edgar com­muted her death sentence to life in prison with no chance of parole. 
Garcia, 37, was to have been executed shortly after midnight for shooting her husband dur­ing an argument that grew from a botched robbery. 
Death-penalty opponents, in­cluding Bianca Jagger, had campaigned for clemency over Garcia's objections, arguing that she had a harrowing life that included alcoholism and sexual abuse in childhood and prostitution as a teen-ager. 
As late as last week, Garcia had angrily denounced efforts to win clemency, telling the state Prisoner Review Board, "This is not a suicide.... I am responsible for these crimes." 
Edgar, a Republican who hadn't overturned a death sen­tence in five years in office, said the facts of Garcia's crime didn't justify her execution. He cited evidence that she apparently didn't plan to kill her husband. 
IIIII CIINTIY BEl &BIEAIFAIT REIIITIY 
The Prefi•rrell Rcgtst7y 

Reserved luxorlous rooms or privata homes lor 1111/SMC special avant waakands: JPW/Grad./Football 
To reserve can 1218)277-7003 Fax (2181277-2465 

"Horrible as was her crime, it is an offense comparable to those that judges and jurors have determined over and over again should not be punishable by death," Edgar said in a statement. 
The governor acknowledged that he was acting against Gar­cia's wishes, but said: "It is not the state's responsibility to carry out the wishes of a defen­dant. It is the state's responsi­bility to assure that the death penalty eontinues to be admin­istered properly." 
Garcia's attorney, Manos Kavvadias, said Garcia nevP.r really wanted to die but was "drained" after losing an ap­peal to the Illinois Supreme Court last year. "She was ready to accept the sentence as it was," he said. 
After prison offieials told her of Edgar's deeision, "she was relieved -like a big weight had been removed from her," Kavvadias said. 
Edgar rejected arguments that Garcia was a victim of bat­tered woman syndrome. His aides insisted neither the inter­national spotlight nor Garcia's gender influeneed his decision. 
The only woman put to death in the United States since the Supreme Court reinstated capi­tal punishment in 1976 was Velma Barfield. 
Dollar Days are Here! 
Small Blizzard or Breeze .  .$1  
Peanut Buster Parfait .  $1  
Do ubI e 8 urge ncheese 20¢ extra)  $1  
2 Hot Dogs.  $1  
S.R. 
23 -Across from Coach's Sports Bar 



Now through January 2151 

Free Pregnancy Test Referrals to Support Agencies Confidential Counseling 

Call234-0363 
(24 hours) 
SOUTH BEND 
417 N. St. louis Blvd. 
(Convenient to Campus) 

----------~­
page 4 The Observer • NEWS Wednesday, January 17, 1996 
Keough Center receives donation Craig 
Special to The Observer 
Herbert Allen, chief executive officer of the investment bank­ing firm Allen & Company, do­nated $700,000 to the Keough Center for Irish Studies. 
Made in honor of the center's founder, Donald Keough, the two gifts of $350,000 each will be used to support lectures in 

·Irish studies and to purchase a microfilm collection of about 200,000 18th century books, broadsides and other printed materials, including all editions of the works of Edmund Burke, Henry Fielding, Benjamin Franklin, Thomas Paine, Alexander Pope, and Jonathan Swift, among others. Acquisition of the collection will substantially enhance the 
Notre Dame library's holdings in Irish literature, religion, his­tory, government, culture and other topics. 
The Keough Center was es­tablished in 1993 and is di­rected by Keough Professor of Irish Studies Seamus Deane, generally acknowledged to be the world's foremost scholar of Irish literature and culture. 

University Club honored with rare stein 
Special to The Observer 
A local attorney presented a limited edition beer stein to the University Club in memory of the late Indiana 3rd District Congressman F. Jay Nimtz. 
Nimtz, who died in 1990, was a member of the University Club. Prior to his congressional career, he was a member of the 


Thefts 
continued from page 1 
the apartment complexes and areas surrounding campus. 
"We patrol the areas more frequently over breaks," he said, "but the best advice I can give to students is to take their valuables home with them or store them with Notre Dame Security." 

international prosecuting staff at the Nuremburg trials follow­ing World War II. 
The stein was presented on December 21 by H. Theodore Noell to Paul Conway, associate professor of finance and chair­man of the University Club's board of directors. Noell and Nimtz were friends and collab­orators on legal matters for 
Security offers a program ev­ery winter in which off-campus students may store valuables such as televisions and computers to help prevent theft. 
Items are locked in the Security Building and students may pick them up after breaks. 
Hurley said that no major in­cidents or thefts occurred on campus over the break. 



The Observer 
is now accepting applications for the following paid positions: 
Assistant Systems Manager Web Administrator 
Freshmen and Sophomores encouraged to apply. H you have Macintosh experience and are look­ing to run your own network, submit a one-page personal statement to Sean Gallavan by Friday, January 26. Call631-8839 with questions. 

SYRACUSE 
SUMMER STUDY ABROAD 
Pick a Place Under the Sun 
• 
EUROPE 

• 
ASIA 

• 
AFRICA 

• 
NEW ZEALAND 

• 
CENTRAL AMERICA 


Internships • Language Programs Traveling Seminars Grants Available 
Division of International Programs Abroad Summer Programs Office, 119 Euclid Avenue Syracuse, NY 13244-4170 
1-800-251-9674 • dipasum@suadmin.syr.edu 

many years 
The 12-inch high, hand-paint­ed stein features an American bald eagle. It was manu­factured in Germany by the Zoeller and Born Company. 
The University Club has a unique and variegated collec­tion of some 130 beer steins and tankards, some of which are more than 300 years old. 
If you see news happening, call The Observer at 1-5323 

Houses for Rent 96-97 
•Furnished •Security Systems •VVashers/Dryers •4-8 Bedrooms 

Call Pat MeKelvey at 258-9996 
continued from page 1 
the way down." 

In addition to his numerous professional accomplishments, Craig was also well known for his interest in upholding the in­terests of Notre Dame, accord­ing to Professor Frederick Goetz, director of graduate studies. "He always held Notre Dame above everything else and also always put undergrad­uate education above every­thing else. It has been a great loss to the university because of his interest in undergraduate teaching," said Goetz. 
Craig was born July 8, 1930, in Chicago, where he grew up. He graduated the University of Chicago Lab High School before enrolling at Indiana University. He graduate in 1951 with a de­gree in zoology. He received master's and doctoral degrees in entomology from the Uni­versity of Illinois. 
lie is survived is by his wife of 42 years, Elizabeth Plum of South Bend; a son James, of Niles, Michigan; two daughters, Patricia Craig of Chicago and Sarah Craig Peterek of Niles; and six grandchildren. 


Late Night Olyntpics X Friday, February 2 7:00PM-4:00AM Joyce Center 
The Tenth Annual Late Night Olympics is Scheduled for Friday, February 2, 1996. The Proceeds from this All-Night Sports Extrava­ganza go to Benefit the St. Joseph County 
Special Olympics. For More Information 
Contact Your Hall Representative or Call 
RecSports at 631-6100. 
The Deadline for Entering a Temn is Monday, January 29. 

I~TERNATIONAL WORKING OPPORTUNITY 
OBCENGLISH 
'--------~ 

CONVERSATION SCHOOL 
is seeking university graduates for a one year teaching position in Japan. Attractive salary, benefits and travel opportunities. 
' Japanese Language Skills Not Necessary. 
RECRUITING DATES: February 5, 6, and 7 at Career and Placement Services. Open to all majors. Sign~ups Open This Week 

, , 
) .... 



CELEBRATED EVENTS 
Comprehensive Wedding Coordinating and Party Planning 
CYNTHIA BASKER 302 East Donaldson Avenue Mishawaka, Indiana 46545 219 258~5482 
Call or write for free infonnational packet 

Be a Real Champion, Support Special Olympics! 
Friday, February 2 7:00PM-4:00AM 
*""'· 
· Joyce Center 631-6100 

All LNO Medals Were Donated by the Notre Dame Alumni Association 
Wednesday, January 17, 1996 
The Observer • NEWS page 5 
Status of Russian hostages remains uncertain 

By CHRIS BIRD 
Associated Press 
PERVOMAYSKAYA, 
RUSSIA 
Russian troops backed by tanks and helicopter gunships battled with Chechen sepa­ratists in a Russian city today, and Chechen gunmen in Turkey reportedly seized a ferry with Russians aboard. 
The Russian army offensive in the village of Pervomayskaya was an attempt to free dozens of hostages being held by Chechen rebels. 
A group of Chechen fighters tried to come to the rebels' aid, but Russian warplanes attacked their trucks 10 miles southeast of the village, said Yevgeny Ryabtsev of the Interior Ministry in Moscow. 

The trucks were destroyed and about 150 rebels were believed to have been killed, he said. There was no indepen­dent confirmation. 
In the Turkish port of Trab­zon, masked Chechen gunmen seized a Black Sea ferry, Turkey's semiofficial Anatolia news agency reported. 
The agency said the gunmen claimed to have killed one pas­senger and threatened to kill all the Russians aboard if the ship did not immediately depart. The vessel -with some 165 people aboard-set sail at about 9:45 p.m. for an undis­closed destination, Anatolia said. It said the gunmen were armed with automatic rifles and shouted slogans demand­ing freedom for Chechnya. 
In Pervomayskaya, the boom of tank fire rang out for a sec­ond day of intense street fight­ing in the tiny village in the southern republic of Dagestan, just short of Chechnya's bor­der. Despite snow, helicopter gunships went up to fire rock­ets at the remaining rebels. 
Russian troops brought out 24 people, most of them hostages, from Pervomayskaya since Monday, but the fate of the majority of the 100 or so hostages remained unclear. 
In the Chechen capital, Grozny, unknown assailants reportedly seized about 30 workers at an electric power 

Dexter's not his usual self. 
You suspect the salsa. 
So you call Dr. Nusblatt, your family vet back home. 
The call is cheap. (Too bad about the consultation fee.) 
Uvc off campus? Sign up lbr A:m:r True Reach Savings'" and save 25% 
no matter who, how, when or where 
you call in the ll.S. 
Life can be complicated. AT&T True Reach Savings'M is simple. Save 25% on every kind of call on your Al&Tphone bill-direct dial, calling card, directory assistance, local toll, cellular, fax and modem­when you spend just $25 a montit No other plan gives you all these different ways to sav~· just call1800TRUE-ATT to sign up. Save on every call. That's Your True Cboice:'M 



AT&T 
Your True Choice 
•Rdcrs lo long disranre calls bill~d to A'I&Thome or AT&T CaJiing Card at'munlS. Discounts offAl&Tbasic mres. Certain exclu'iions apply. Suhjel1 Ul billirtM NJilahilily. Offt'r av.tilahlc to rt"SJdenlial A'I&T mstomers: Minimum spending requirement is per residential llne. ..Compared to major long distance carriers. Cll996A1&T 
plant early today, the ITAR­Tass news agency quoted a government official as saying. 
Alexander Zdanovich of the Federal Security Service said a special task force was investi­gHting the report that workers were captured and taken away on buses to an unknown desti­nation. 
The Interior Ministry in Moscow said 60 rebels were killed, 15 seriously wounded and an unspecified number captured on Monday. Four Russian servicemen were killed and at least 20 were wounded during two days of fighting. 
One of the dead was Col. Andrei Krestyaninov, comman­der of an Interior Ministry rapid reaction unit. 
Support for GOP flat tax waning 
By jOHN KING 
Associated Press 

WASHINGTON 
Eager to make bold tax re­form a 1996 campaign center­piece, most Republicans were quick to embrace the flat tax and the marketing charm of its postcard simplicity. But that support has cracked and could crumble because of brewing class warfare among GOP presidential hopefuls. 
There is considerable irony to this: When it comes to mix­ing politics and economics, Republicans are usually quick to pillory Democrats for trying to pit the poor and middle class against the wealthy. 
But for now. that is the theme of an internal GOP fight. The outcome will determine whether the flat tax, or any specific tax reform proposal, finds its way into the 1996 GOP platform. 
Senate Majority Leader Bob Dole warns that Republicans need to make sure they don't embrace a plan in which "the middle class take it on the chin." Not to be outdone, Texas Sen. Phil Gramm casts himself as "a blue-collar Republican," trying to distin­guish himself from the blue­blooded Republican who has made the flat tax the most con­tentious issue in the GOP presi­dential race. 
That would be millionaire publisher Steve Forbes, whose plan for a 17 percent flat tax would eliminate deductions for mortgage interest and gifts to charity. It also would not make individuals pay taxes on divi­dends, interest or capital gains. 
Put more simply, a wealthy individual who doesn't work but makes millions from investments would pay no in­come taxes, while a barber, factory worker or office recep­tionist would. 
"I do not believe it is defensi­ble," Gramm said Tuesday of that idea. He also said it was unfair to take the mortgage interest deduction away from the middle class. 
Gramm has plenty of com­pany within the GOP fie1d: Front-runner Dole, former Tennessee Gov. Lamar Alexan­der and commentator Pat Buchanan all raise similar ob­jections to the Forbes flat tax. 
Yet even as they try to un­dermine Forbes and his plan, Dole, Gramm, Alexander and Buchanan are sold on the idea of promoting dramatic tax re­form as a 1996 issue. 

Wednesday, January 17,1996
page 6 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT 
Economic Justice 






Just Us? 
us-Who care/Who don't care US-Haves/Have-nots US-Students/Teachers US-Healthy/Sick US-Followers/Leaders US-With loving and supportive 
community/Lonely and Broken US-Powerless/Powerful US-Educated/Uneducated us-Landowners/Renters US-Dependent/! ndependent US-Immigrants/Native-born us-Athletes, Artists, Scientists, 
Homemakers, Businesspeople, 
Engineers... US-With different shades of skin-colors: 
black, red, white, brown and yellow 
US-WHO ARE WE? 

0MPU5 

MINISTRY UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 
Sponsors: African American Student Alliance, Amnesty International, Campus Ministry, Center for Social Concerns, Multicultural Student Affairs, Student Government, Student Affairs 
page 7 

Wednesday, January 17, 1996 The Observer • NEWS 
~~------------­
Coalition tries to block NATO sent to guard utilities 
0 hio waste storage site Serb threats 
ByPAULSOUHRADA 
A"ociatcd Press 
COLUMBUS, Ohio 

A eoalition of environmental groups on Tuesday proposed a constitutional amendment to hnad off efl'orts to build region­
al nudear waste storage site in Ohio. 
"Wn are trying to stop Ohio from beeoming a multi-state regional dump," said state Sen. Dennis Kucinieh, D-Cleveland, a leading dump opponent. 
Ohio is set to bneome the first of six regional storage facilities under a law passed last year. 
The faeility would collect ra­diouetive dothing, animal ear­casses, tools and maehineryfrom nuclear power plants, hospitals, universities and busi­
nesses in Ohio, Indiana, Iowa, Minnesota, Missouri and 
. · 
wtseonsm. Each slate -J'oined under 
the Midwest Low-Level Hadioaetive Waste Compact ­promises to operate a storage 
site for 20 years, or until it reaches its eapaeity of 2.25 mil­lion cubic feet of waste. 
If voters approve, the consti­tutional amendment would pro­hibit Ohio from taking in ra­
dioactive material from outside the state. 
Ohio would be the seeond state to leave the compact. Michigan was to be the first host state, but was kicked out in 1991 after efforts to find a suitable location there stalled. 
If Ohio pulls out, Minnesota is next in line to host the facility, said Gregg Larson, eompact ex­eeutive director. 
"I don't know what impact
" 
would I1ave on tI1e compact,Larson said. "I'd worry about 
h h · ld b 
w at t e tmpact wou e on 0 hio." 
spur decision 
s •

fn• QrQ]eVQ By GEORGE JAHN 
Associated Press 
SAHAJEVO 
Alarmed by Serb threats to leave their parts of Sarajevo stripped bare and burning, the commander of NATO in Bosnia sent troops Tuesday to guard water, gas and electrical sta­tions in the Bosnian capitaL 
French troops who took con­trol of the four utilities stations with 150 troops, 30 armored personnel carriers and 10 light
tanks encountered no resistance -a sign that the heavily armed NATO forces command respect
NATO officials said that hos­
tile armies aeross Bosnia were 
on schedule in moving back
f ront ll·nes as mandated byfrom 

~h;e~'Z~~~ ~::~~e a;r;_~~~~~t~ 
buffer zone by Friday. 
But the second failure in two days to release prisoners of war 
and lingering Croat-Muslim tensions in the divided city of Mostar overshadowed NATO's 
successes. The deadline for the release of all POWs is also Fri­day. 
NATO is not directly involved in prisoner releases or in nor­malizing Mostar. The scrapping of the releases demonstrates that the hostile factions have little respect for provisions of the peace agreement not di­rectly enforced by NATO. 
Navy Capt. Mark van Dyke, a NATO spokesman, acknowl­edged that a failure to free POWs would constitute a "cer­tain fraying" of the peaceaccord. 
In Mostar, 35 miles southwest 
f 
o Sarajevo, Muslims and Croats cannot agree on a uni­
fi d . f d ·r · 
te po1tee orce an reum ymg their sectors. 
B:ll[] pm Washington Hall Saturday, January 2[], 1995 

STUDENT UNION BOARD 
Bosnia ·~ 
Update h.~ 
u·· Re~l 

C g~;~i~~d~~~~~nnment-Serb ....... Newpartitlonline asof11122/95 ~ Proposedsitesotprisonerexchange 
CROATIA Sava River _), ['\. I , [ .. 
" ..... ... 
{ { .......~ • Gradaca~.~::., ' .. ... ~* ••• Banja :!0... t'" ~ ~., .....J Luka ~ ....:~. •"'i YUGO. 't \ ~............. Tuzla ···' (serol/lJ: ....., '· \ n BOSNIA·····} / \'l;J HERZEG.ovi'NA (!!J./ Srebrenlca '·-. SarajevO ·_..:::.:·::::!tGorazde ······~ {'"; ...... \~ : 
"'·~ { YUGO. ,..,;.,~, (Montenegro)

50 miles 5oi<m Aexchangeinvolvingabout900prisoners was thwarted for asecond day as the 
B · t d d th t th
osmangovernrnen eman s a e Serbsaccountfornearty25,000missing people. Fridayisthedeadlineforallwar
prisoners to be released under Bosnia's 
Dec.14peaceagreement. 

@ Humanrightsorganizationsandthe
u .ed 8 d th
mt tales an o er governments say they have evidence that Serbs massacred thousands of people from Srebrenica. The Serbs deny the charges. 
AP!Wm. J. Castello 

Have something to say? Use The Observer classifieds. 
Engagement Rings 
10%-15% OFF! Official Wholesale Price List! 

S.A. Peck & Co. 

55 E. Klzshington, Chicago, /L 60602 For a Free 32-Pagt Color Callllog Toll-Free (800) 922-0090 FAX (312) 977-0248 Inttmtl Catalog a/ http: llwww.sapuk. coml>aptck 
My fashion ~ecret? Goodwill. 
Who said that in order to look good 
I I I I
quality selection of clot ing that you would find in the I mall. .. but at a 
I
price that will 
I
keep you comin5 back, looking goo , I and impressing 
I
friends. So, the next 
I
time you need a particular outfit, or I 


page 8 
The Observer· NATIONAL NEWS Wednesday, January 17, 1996 
Infectious 
Budget negotiations resume today
diseases returning 
By LAURAN NEERGAARD Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 

Infectious diseases are on a global rebound, killing thou­sands more Americans, surviv­ing potent antibiotics and possibly evolving into stronger bugs as the climate changes, a coalition of doctors warned Tuesday. 
The world is "more vulnera­ble than ever before," said No­bel laureate Joshua Lederberg, who led a call by the Journal of the American Medical Associa­tion and 35 other international medical journals for a global battle against infections. 
The development of antibi­otics once had doctors predict­ing infectious diseases would be conquered by now. 
Instead, in the past decade new infections such as the AIDS virus suddenly began killing hundreds of thousands, older diseases like tuberculosis returned and bacteria began evolving to defy treatment. 
Tuesday, doctors in 21 coun­tries published 242 studies to illustrate the scope of the threat. 
Among the most alarming: The U.S. death rate from infec­tious diseases rose 58 percent between 1980 and 1992, and a snapshot of middle America found antibiotic resistance growing fast. 
That doesn't mean people should panic, Lederberg em­phasized. 
By JIM ABRAMS 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
A week after they were sus­pended, budget negotiations resume today between the White House and Republicans -but with more pre-meeting talk about the consequences of failure than any likelihood of success. 
Senate moderates, mean­while, are urging the negotia­tors not to give up, asserting "the future of this country is at stake." 
House Speaker Newt Gingrich said Tuesday he would attend the Wednesday afternoon meet­ing -even that had been uncertain -but was not opti­mistic about reaching an agree­ment on a seven-year balanced budget plan. 
"We've had no indication of any movement on their part so far," Gingrich, R-Ga., said at a fund-raising event in Lansing, Mich. In the absence of a deal, he said, Republicans will fund only those programs they like. "You'll see us pass some very targeted appropriations," Gin­grich said. 

Later at a speech outsirl.e De­troit, Gingrich said Republicans would approve overall spending at only about 75 percent of 1995 levels, using the remain­ing 25 percent to move toward a balanced budget. 
White House press secretary Mike McCurry said an agree­ment could be close but only if Republicans drop their insis­tence on restructuring Medi­care. 
Republicans keep raising the threshold of what they want, he said. 
"They are now apparently after something else; they want a fundamental entitlements re­form." 
At least this time, McCurry said, the talks are going for­ward with little threat of an­
other government-crippling shutdown. 
'They're not going to monkey around with government shut­downs and debt ceilings as a way to force their budget priorities," McCurry said of the Republicans. 
House Budget Committee Chairman John Kasich. R-Ohio, suggested over the weekend that Republicans would allow the debt ceiling to rise because of the serious repercussions of the nation defaulting on its debts. 
But Sen. Jim Inhofe, R-Okla., said Tuesday that "there's a difference of opinions among Republicans" on extending the authority to borrow, and that he and others were still oppos­ing raising the ceiling until a budget deal was reached. 
Talks between President Clinton and the GOP leaders were broken off a week ago with the two sides divided on a formula for a balanced budget that would include savings from Medicare, Medicaid and welfare and a tax cut. 
Clinton has suggested that they agree on broad numbers and put off until the November election the tougher issues of how to change the shape of ma­jor programs such as Medicare. 
A group of moderate senators -10 Republicans and 10 Democrats -said Tuesday they were writing leaders from both parties to urge them "not to walk away" from the budget negotiations. 
Sen. John Breaux, D-La., said the letter "says simply, 'Keep trying. Do not give up. The fu­ture of this country is at stake."' 
Sen. John Chafee of Rhode Is­land, a Republican member of the group, said it would be a mistake to let the opportunity for an accord slip away. "We think that the tough decisions aren't going to be made in elec­tions." 
Krisanne is 


Is The W.irld Ready1 
7~ ~ Z'eu~te 


The Observer 
is now accepting applications for the following positions: 
Accent Copy Editors 
Freshman and Sophomores encouraged to apply. Please submit a one-page personal statement to Krista in 315 LaFortune by Thursday, January 25™. Call 631-4540 with questions. 
FRESHMAN RETREAT 
Friday, January 26 (4:00pm) -Saturday, January 2 7 (6:00pm) 
40 WOMEN + 40 MEN FROM 
Dillon  Pasquerilla East  
Badin  St. Ed's  
0MPUS MINISTRY  Lewis Morrissey  Walsh Zahm  


A LIMITED NUMBER OF APPLICATIONS AVAILABLE at the Campus Ministry Office, 103 Hesburgh Library. 
Questions? Call Fr. Bob Dowd, CSC (1-7800/1-5056) 
___j 
Wednesday, January 17, 1996 The Observer • NATIONAL NEWS page 9 
AT&T begins layoffs; 40,000 jobs eliminated 

Mexican drug lord faces charges 
tired DEA agent from Dallas istration can overcome wide­Cocaine levels who helped put together the spread corruption and ef­
U.S. case against the drug king­fectively combat drug traffick­pin in the early 1990s. ing.
in the US face 
"But it will take them years Mexico comes up in March to amass the kind of power and for U.S. recertification for itsshort-term drop fortune he enjoyed," Jordan role in the drug war. added. "He was one of the big The State Department and
By ANITA SNOW 

guys." Congress annually rate coun­
Associated Press 

Recent blows to Colombia's tries for their cooperation and Cali cartel have helped create a award U.S. aid accordingly. 
MEXICO CITY 
new breed of Mexican drug "Hopefully Garcia Abrego'sThe flow of cocaine into the lords, poised to become equally arrest is just a start," said Jor­United States may slow tem­powerful in the world market. dan.
porarily as the rivals of jailed, The Mexicans now are re­"If the Zedillo administrationdrug lord Juan Garcia Abrego sponsible for smuggling at least goes after the rest of the drugbattle over his turf, but there three-quarters of all cocaine lords we could really see somelikely will be little long-term ef­entering the United States, U.S. results."
fect, experts said Tuesday. 
authorities say. The arrest was seen as theAlthough Garcia Abrego was 
Garcia Abrego, one of the most important in Mexico's one of the most formidable 
FBI's 10 most-wanted, was ar­drug war since Miguel Angel smuggling kingpins in Mexico, rested by Mexican authorities Felix Gallardo, the "Godfatherhis power had waned recently. 
and deported Monday to Hous­of Mexican Drug Trafficking"Now, members of his cartel and ton, where he faces U.S. federal was imprisoned in 1989. 
others will be hungry to snatch charges of drug trafficking, Felix Gallardo's arrest put a up the multimillion-dollar busi­conspiracy and money launder­temporary dent in Mexican ness he controlled. 
ing. trafficking as others battled for"A lot of people will struggle The arrest is expected to his territory. But within a few to get Garcia Abrego's busi­boost President Ernesto Zedillo years, the vacuum was filled.
ness," said Phil Jordan, a re­in his effort to prove his admin-The same process is likely to 
WANTED: by The Observer News Dept. 
Talented Dedicated Individuals for the Following Paid Positions: 
News Copy Editor 
Interested? Submit a one-page resume per­sonal statement to Dave Tyler, News Editor, in Rm 314 LaFortune by Monday, Jan. 22. Questions? Call Dave at 1-5323. 
happen again, the experts said. 
Garcia Abrego's rivals "are celebrating tonight," said Peter Lupsha, a University of New Mexico professor who studies the drug trade. 
Juarez cartel leader Amado Carrillo Fuentes, described as Mexico's No. 1 drug smuggler, can only benefit from Garcia Abrego's arrest, Lupsha said. 
Carrillo Fuentes, known as "The Lord of the Skies" for his use of old passenger jets to fly Colombian cocaine into Mexico, has risen rapidly in power ­aided by the cool, professional manner he learned from his mentors in the Cali cartel. 
"Nothing changes for drug trafficking," said Lupsha. 

By RAVI NESSMAN 
Associated Press 
MORRISTOWN, N.J. 

AT&T Corp. began handing out pink slips to at least 2,000 employees Tuesday, the first in a series of layoffs that will elim­inate 40,000 jobs over the next three years across the country. 
Supervisors began delivering the news in one-on-one meet­ings. 
"The old Ma Bell mentality that you have a job for life is not there anymore," said Bob Cort, 40, as he arrived at his advertising job at AT&T's Network Systems office in Morris Township. "You've got a lot of people working here who could find themselves without jobs today. It's a stressful time for everyone." 
Company spokesman Ritch Blasi said about 2,000 to 2,500 people were to receive notice Tuesday. Many will be termi­nated in two months; others might stay on until later in the year. 
The telecommunications giant plans to cut about 13 per­cent of its work force over the next three years as it splits into three companies. About 70 per­cent of the 40,000 jobs to be eliminated will be gone by the end of 1996. 
The 40,000 includes 7,000 workers who accepted a buyout offer. 

Wednesday, January 17, 1996
page 10 The Observer • NEWS 
Little-known brewery tries African expansion 

.. 
Jan. IS· 19 Monday • Friday 
. . 
. .

During Store Houn . . 
. . 
.·.
-:o 
·.· 
.. 

• • 0 ••••••••• 0 0 0 • 0 •• 0 0 0 •• 0 0 0 0 0 • 0 •• 0 ••••• 
By PATRICK McDOWELL 
Associated Press 
MAPUTO, Mozambique 
Nobody said making beer in war-shattered Mozambique would be easy, but where there's water, there's a way. 
And maybe there's new prof­its for a big brewer hoping to expand across Africa, a conti­nent most others see as a hope­less investment. 
Anheuser-Busch? Miller? Heineken? No, and not Bass, Fosters or the big Japanese outfits either. 
Try South African Breweries, the world's sixth-largest beer­maker by volume although it's little-known ofT the southern tip of Africa. 
The firm, known as SAB, is 
rapidly expanding northward, 
buying into money-losing brew­
eries around the rest of Africa 
-and China and Hungary -as 
fast as cash-strapped govern­
ments privatize them. And it's 
dealing with obstacles like out­
dated equipment and local offi­
cials who won't turn on the water without a bribe. The expansion marks one of the more striking examples of 
The Observer South African companies stak­ing out foreign holdings follow­
is now accepting applications
ing the end of anti-apartheid sanctions and the country's 
for the following positions:
new respectability under Presi­dent Nelson Mandela. "I was amazed last summer to see someone from South 
Assistant Accent Editors
African Breweries at a whole­salers' convention in the United States," said Robert Weinberg, 
Freshman and Sophomores encouraged to 
an industry analyst and former 
apply. Submit a one-page statement of intent
Anheuser-Busch vice president. "They were looking for a 
to Krista in 315 LaFortune by January 25. 
wholesaler to sell their beer in 
Call631-4540 with questions.
the United States. They're very 
........... . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
..........
. . . . . . . . . . . . .
... . ........ .
. . . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . .. :~ :~ :::::::~ :~ :::::::::::::: : :: : ::::::::::::::
. . . . . . . . . . . 
··:······· 

aggressive. I was impressed." · 
The company denies any immediate plans to sell its brands in the United States. But it has picked up stakes in the state-run breweries of Zambia, Tanzania and Mozambique and is talking with Angolan officials. 
All were enemies of South Africa's former white-minority regime, but all have been wrecked by decades of civil war or economic bungling and need investors. 
Yet poor infrastructure and stifling bureaucracy scare off most business people. 
SAB isn't scared. South 
Africa's third-largest conglom­
erate behind the Anglo-Ameri­
can mining and De Beers dia­
mond giants, it has a capitaliza­
tion of $8.7 billion and controls 
98 percent of the South African 
beer market of 23.5 million 
liters, the continent's largest. 
The flagship brand, Castle, 
was founded in the Johannes­
burg gold fields in 1895. An 
early advertising poster echoed the British imperial slogan, "Cape to Cairo," and executives view the rest of Africa as their rightful backyard. 
"For better or worse, we have some experience in Africa, and find it a bit easier than some really high-tech companies might," said Andre Parker, head of SAB's Indol subsidiary that runs the African invest­ments. 
In Mozambique, where local brands such as Manica and 2M were almost always out of stock, Craig McDougall of SAB leads a $15 million joint ven­ture that boosted output overnight. 
He bought the formerly state­run brewery, then faced bribe­hungry officials who refused to turn on the water taps. So Mc­Dougall cut a deal with the fire department, supplying tires for trucks in exchange for two tankers of water a day. 
Some of SAB's African expe­
rience comes from getting 
around anti-apartheid sane­
tions. Castle and SAB's other big brand, Lion, have sold throughout the region for years, having been brewed during the sanctions era in neighboring Swaziland and Lesotho. 
Remember Rolling Rock? In the mid-1980s, the Philadel­phia-brewed brand had a fol­lowing among U.S. college stu­dents, some of whom urged the Reagan administration to im­pose sanctions on South Africa. Little did they realize that SAB owned Rolling Rock through front companies -a fact un­covered when the brand was sold in 1988. 
Today's penetration is rela­tively straightforward. SAB buys into the local brewer, pre­ferring a joint venture with gov­ernment to minimize hassles. 
Tennis Mi.xer 

January 22 ~I 6:00 PM 7:30 PM 
Global drinking 
The top 1 0 countries ranked according to 1994 beer consumption per capita in liters: 
. . 
DIIIIIIIIJIIrfllfll1& 
a Austria 'fl¥ 117.0 
....,,.JSitRII!i~ 
's Hungary 103.0 e 
llllllttlllrtl~~~fL+.i~~~~fii~I;J=i~:~~ 
10 New Zealand 102.1 
x approximately e estimate 
Source: World Drink Trends, 1995 Edition AP 

r------.--~----~--------~----------------~------------~----------------------------------~·----------------------------------~-­
VIEWPOINT 
Wednesday, January 17, 1996 page 11 


THE OBSERVER 
NoTRE DAME OFFICF.: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1995-96 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief john Lucas Managing Editor Business Manager Sm.annc 1:ry Joseph Riley 
News Edi10r ................................ David Tyler Advertising Manager ........................... John Ponor Viewpoint Editor .................. Micharl O'Hara Ad Design Manager ......................)en Mackowiak Spans Editor ............................. Mike Norbut Production Manager .................. Jacqueline Moser Accent Editor ......................... Krism Nanncry Systems Manager ............................ Sean Gallavan Saint Mary's Editor ..... Pani Carson Observer Marketing Director.......... Pete Coleman Controller ............................................. Eric Lorge 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published hy the students of the University of Norre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does nor necessarily reflect the policirs of the administra­tion of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively a.< possible. Unsigned edi­torials represent the opinion of the majority of rhe Ediwr-in-Chief, Managing Ediwr, News Ediwr, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. <;ommcntarics, IC'rtcrs and Inside <:olumns present the views of the authors1 and nor necessarily rhose of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's com­muniry and ro all readers. The free expression of varying opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 
Editor-in-Chief 631-4542 Business Office 631-5313 Managing Editor/Viewpoint 631-4541 Advertising 631-6900/8840 Spons 631-4543 Systems/Marketing Dept. 631-8839 News/Photo 631-5323 Office Manager 631-7471 Accent/Saint M•ry's 631-4540 Fax 631-6927 Day Editor/Production 631-5303 Viewpoint E-Mail Viewpoint. 1 @nd.edu General IntOrmation 631-7471 Ad E-Mail observer@darwin.cc.nd.edu 
• LETIERS TO THE EDITOR 
Dr. King's thoughts and words come to life 
Editor's Note: The following is a reprint of a col­umn which ran in 71ze Observer on Dec. 5, 1994 and is the first in a six-part series on Dr. Martin Luther King. Penny Russell is now a professor at Ohio State l!nivt?rsity. 
Dear Editor: 
In the fall of 1950, Martin Luther King, Jr., a stu­dent at Crozer Theological Seminary in Chester, Pennsylvania, wrote an essay entitled, "An Autobiography of Heligious Development." King rncounted his life experiences and the origins of his religious faith emphasizing the supporting and nur­turing inlluences of his family, church and communi­ty. Now forty-four years later, I want to present to the Notrn Dame community some of the ideas that King diseussed in this little-known essay. 
Originally handwritten on light green, lined note­book paper, it is one of King's first statements on the significance of religion in his life. lie began the essay admilling to "anti-capitalist feelings" because he wit­rwssed hungry people having to wait for food in bread linns during the Great Depression. Then King intro­duced his affectionate family that consisted of his father, mother, sister. brother and a maternal grand­motlwr, and lw underscored the love and care they had for one another. "I have never experienced the ftwling of not having the basic necessities of life," King recalled. "These things were always provided by a fatlwr who always put his family first. My father has always been a real father." 
Tlwn Martin Luther King turned to the outside world and described the segregated African­Anwriean neighborhood of Auburn Avenue in Atlanta where lw spent his childhood in a middle class, "wholesome" community where most people were religious. "I can well remember that all of my child­hood playmates were regular Sunday Sehool goers," he wrote, "not that I ehose them on that basis, but because it was very difficult to lind playmates in my eommunity who did not attend Sunday School." 
At this point King highlighted the significance of his family and eommunity to the story of his religious development. "It is quite easy for me to think of a God of love mainly because I grew up in a family where love was e1mtral and where lovely relationships were ever so prostml." lie continued, "It is quite easy for me to think of the universe as basically friendly main­ly heeause of my uplifting hereditary and environ­mental circumstances." King was optimistic about the possibility of progress in race relations by the time he was attending Crozer, in spite of childhood experi­ences of racism and discrimination. 
King recounted his first encounter with racism in this essay. When he was six years old he lost his best friend, a white boy of his own age. The boy came to King and told him that his father had ordered him not to play with Martin anymore. King was shocked by the incident and sought for an explanation from his own parents. "We were at the dinner table when the situation was discussed, and here for the first time I was made aware of the existence of the race prob­lem," he remembered. His parents discussed the problems and insults they had endured and the wounded little boy made a momentous decision: "I was greatly shocked, and. from that moment on I was determined to hate every white person. As I grew older and older this feeling continued to grow." King's parents reminded him that it was his Christian duty to love all people and King responded by asking, "How can 1 love a race of people [who] hated me and who had been responsible for breaking me up with one of my best childhood friends?" Morehouse College in Atlanta provided the solution for him. King recalled. "I did conquer these anti-White feelings until I entered college and came into contact with white students through working in interracial organi­zations." 
It was at Morehouse College that Martin Luther King realized he would enter the clergy. In this essay he revealed that his decision to become a minister "was an inner urge calling me to serve humanity." And King credited his father's influence as a deter­mining factor in his decision. "This is not to say that he ever spoke to me in terms of being a minister, but my admiration for him was the great moving factor; He set forth a noble example that I didn't mind fol­lowing." 
In the conclusion to his essay King proclaimed the central values of his life and his future work. "At pre­sent I still feel the affects of the noble moral and ethi­cal ideals that I grew up under," he wrote. "They have been real and precious to me, and even in moments of theological doubt I could never turn away from them. Even though I have never had an abrupt conversion experience, religion has been real to me and closely knitted to life. In fact the two cannot be separated; religion for me is life." 
All quotations are from "An Autobiography of Religious Development" published in Carson, Luker and Russell, eds., "The Papers of Martin Luther King, Jr., Volume I: Called to Serve," January 1929-June 1951 (Berkeley: University of California Press, 1992). 
PENNY RUSSELL 
Former Lecturer in History Department 
Everyone urged to take part in MLK holiday activities 
Dear Editor: 

What are we celebrating at the Dr. Martin Luther King, 
Jr. Holiday? 

It is a time to celebrate the movement that gave women 
equal rights, equal opportunity for housing for all and 
called for attention to the needs of disabled people every­
where. 

It is a time to inspire as Dr. King inspired, "The rich 
man (woman) to do what he/she ought to do, the poor 
man (woman) to do what he/she ought to do." 
Do we really understand the human rights movement? 
Do we know what civil rights are? What are we doing to 
meet the challenges? 

The Planning Committee for the 1996 observance of the 
King Holiday eagerly welcomes one and all to full partici­
pation in: 
•The 
Essay Contest 

•The 
Iceberg Debate 

•The 
Panel Discussion 

•The 
Prayer Service 

•Comedy 
Jam 



Together we can make a home for everyone! We each make a difference! 
THE MARTIN LUTHER KING, JR. HOLIDAY 
CELEBRATION PLANNING COMMITTEE 
Universiry of Norre Dame 

GARRY TRUDEAU 
MR. 8I.JTT5, I HOP& '1WReA­liZ£ 7HATtV/iN ?Hf)i(jlf;vuA/?8 
NOWAMON6 
AU1&5,U/13 5TIUMIGHT 
HAI!f'TOASI< 7HtoaA5KJV­A/.. T(}(Xjff 
QUE5TKJN. 
• QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"critics are like eunuchs in 
a harem. They know how it's done; they've seen it done every day; but they're unable to do it themselves." 
-Brendan Behan 

---·--··---------·~·~~------~­
--·~ ~ 
ACCENT
page 12 Wednesday, January 17, 1996 
• AccENT AsKs••• 
Where were you during the Blizzard of '96? 

"California!" 
Leticia Bajuyo Sophomore Farley 
"I shovelled ... and I shovelled and then I shovelled some more. It was thrilling!" 
Margaret Chollis Freshman Badin 


"South Carolina ... We got 8 inches!" 
Jonathan Griffin Freshman Morrissey 
"I was walking and got stuck in a snow drift." 
Mike Boland Junior Morrissey 



"I went sledding on a golf course!" 
Chris Cutter Junior Alumni 
"There was so much snow we had to make a path for my dog to go out­side!" 
Peggy Wolf Freshman Badin 

WHO ANSWERED: 57.9°/o Female 42.1 °/o Male 
Freshmen: 23.1 °/o Sophomores: 23.1 °/o Juniors: 30.8°/o Seniors: 20.5°/o Grad: 3°/o 



Strangest answers to Best New Band: That Breakfast at Tiffany's band How about... none 
Reade 
Way back entertain you think y 

wading th and a E 


Strangest answers to Best Male Artist: Anyone except Jamie Walters Claude Monet David Hasselhoff 
Strangest answer to Worst Female Artist: The Artist Formerly Known as Prince 
Rusted Root was voted BEST ALBUM (Anthrax and The Lion King tied for last.) 
BEST~ 
WORS 
BEST VI BEST MOVIi BEST 
He made up his own c; Worst movie of my life: 
Most of you describe your musical taste as ALTERNATIVE, but a lot of you like ROCK. COUNTRY music also seems to have a rather strong following. If that's the case> why don't more of us go to Heartland? 
The Observer/ Brandon Candura and Katie Kroener 

Florida State Notre Dame 
31-26 
Seminole running back 

Andre Cooper. . 
Warrick Dmm racked up 

The Florida State receiver 
151 yards rushing while 

caught only four passes fQr 38 
quarterbaek Danny Kannell 
yards, but three of them were 
threw for four touchdowns. 
for touchdowns. · 

Rotten 


West Coast Fever 

--Quarterback Thomas Krug (left) led Notre Dame's five-receiver fast break attack. 
-see page 2 

ran 
es 
Florida State fourth quarter surge spoils Notre Dames upset bid 
By MIKE NORBUT Sports Ediwr 
MIAMI 

Notre Dame head coach Lou Holtz has been known to prognosticate every now and then. In fact. he made two forecasts during the week proceeding Notre Dame's appearance in the Orange Bowl. 
He first centered on how the future of the Irish. specifically in 1996, looked bright. "There's no doubt that on paper, next year looks very, very good," he said. However. he also cast a stormy cloud over his team as they prepared to meet Florida State. 
"I have intrepidations about our team. " he said on New Year's eve. "I wouldn't be honest if I didn't say it. They have that far away look in their eyes when I talk to them. You never have enough practice time. There are always things you need to correct." 
Holtz's worst fears came true. And because of it, his long-term prediction still hangs in the balance. 
Florida State roared baek from a 26-14 fourth quar­ter deficit to top Notre Dame 31-26 in front of 72,198 at the 62nd annual FedEx Orange Bowl. The Seminoles' New Year's Day win made the Irish their 11th consecutive bowl vietim. 
Notre Dame (9-3) fell to 11th in the final Associated Press poll. All three losses this season eame at the hands of top ten teams. 
"We have no alibis," Holtz said following the game. "We played hard. Florida State is a line football team and they played very well." 
In reality, he had several chances to attribute some­thing to Notre Dame's defeat. For starters. he was without the services of quarterback Hon Powlus and tailback Handy Kinder. 
Then a week before the game, the university an­nounced that tight end Leon Wallace and tailback Clement Stokes would not make the trip to Miami 
see IRISH I page 2 
• Joct: Strip 

Ever wonder why? 
T
he halftime show at the Orange Bowl has long been the most hyped mid-game "extravaganza" of the bowl season. This year's was appro­priately entitled "Out of This World" but not exaetly in a good sense. It was cheesier than the 


Green Bay Packers' fandom, more  Tim Sherman  
nonsensical than many of the names of Georgetown basketball  Associate Sports Editor  
players and most of all. just plain  

random. Kind of like the following tidbits. After all. it's just a "Wonderwall" . ... You always knew that Bobby Bowden's team was a little bit shady. 
After Florida State scored to go ahead by one point with 6:09 left on the clock. tlw Seminol11 extra-point team trotted onto the field. Why? 
A two point lead is really no bettnr than a one point cushion but a three point margin is a din'nrent story. So logically. a two-point convnrsion attmnpt should have been the play. 
see SHERMAN I page 3 


Wednesday, January 17, 1996 

page 2 The Observer • IRISH EXTRA 

In addition to running the football, Marc Edwards was pressed into tight end duty. It was one of Lou Holtz's several new surprises that he showed to Florida State. 
Holtz pulls five receivers out of grab bag of gimmicks 
By TIM SEYMOUR 
Associate Sports Editor 
MIAMI 
As the Orange Bowl ended an era in its dillapidated namesake of a stadium, it seemed appropriate that Notre Dame experiment with ending an era of its own. 
Traditionally synonymous with smash­mouthed football, the Irish decided that new looks were the new vogue, un­veiling different offensive formations at every opportunity. 
Five-wide receiver sets and one-back, two-tight end packages highlighted Notre Dame's newfound diversity, answering critics who believed that the Irish had failed to keep pace with the game. 
"Up until now, everyone knew what Notre Dame did," proclaimed senior tight end Pete Chryplewicz. "Now with 4-wide sets, it opens things up and puts teams on the defensive." 
Florida State was certainly on the defensive early in the game. On Notre Dame's first play from scrimmage, 
''':'i!!i;WJWill!<}ir"il·' 

freshman Autry Denson scampered 48-yards down the right sideline, sprung by a block from fullback Marc Edwards, who lined up as a tight end on the play. 
Despite the varied forma­tions, though, substitution was kept to a minimum as the Irish utilized the same 
core players regardless of the set. "We didn't want to change personnel so that when we broke the huddle, they didn't know what to expect," stated head coach Lou Holtz. A sound strategy, perhaps, but one that created some strange visuals. The 6-5, 263-pound Chryplewicz spent as much time split out wide as he did on the line, while Edwards played his own version of "Where's Waldo," popping up as frequently in the back­field, as on the line, or in the slot. "We dictated them into one 
defensive set and got them dis­combobulated in the beginning, but they adjusted," explained Holtz. 
The adjustment effectively shut down Notre Dame's running backs and tight end in the five-wide set, as they com­bined for just five receptions, none going for more than ten yards. 
"They started spreading their defense out, which made it harder for us," said Irish quarterback Thomas Krug. 
The Seminoles threw in a wrinkle of their own at halftime, blitzing on almost every down to exploit Notre Dame's empty backfield. 
It was the one move in the chess match that the Irish could not counter. "They were bringing seven or eight 
guys up the middle in the second half, and we just couldn't pick them up in the five-wide set," noted Chryplewicz. 
Florida State registered only one sack, but the constant pressure forced Krug out of his rhythm, as despite the extra targets he was only able to complete two fourth quarter passes. 
That coupled with the lack of a consis­tent ground game ultimately led to Notre Dame's demise. While the Irish rushed for a respectable 256 yards, the total was boosted by three long runs early in the game, and Notre Dame was never able to dominate the line of scrim­mage, as perhaps the Irish took the cliche "in with the new, out with the old" all too serious. 
Irish 
continued from page 1 
because "neither player met the acade­mic expectations of the football staff during the fall semester." 
He could have even made a case against the officials, who made a ques­tionable intentional grounding call against Irish quarterback Thomas Krug in the waning minutes of the game. The call resulted in a safety for the Seminoles and a 31-26 lead. 
"(Fullback Marc) Edwards was the receiver," Holtz said, "but I guess it's grounding if he doesn't hit him in the chest. You don't throw it too well, though, when the guy's on your throat." 
Krug was attempting to hit Edwards on a screen pass over the middle but had to get rid of the ball because of heavy pressure from Florida State's Reinanr Wilson. It was a pivotal play that pushed the momentum back to the side of the Seminoles, who one play ear­lier had failed to score a go-ahead touchdown on a fourth-and-goal play after recovering an Edwards fumble. 
The goal line stand was only the sec­ond time the Irish defense had stopped the powerful Florida State offense in the fouth quarter. With 13:44 to play, Irish freshman Hunter Smith dropped a punt at the Seminole one-yard line, and quar­terback Danny Kannel! stepped out of the back of the end zone on the ensuing play, resulting in a safety and a 19-14 Notre Dame lead. 
The next Irish drive, which came off a free kick, culminated in a five-yard touchdown pass from Krug to tight end Pete Chryplewicz. It seemed to put Notre Dame's foot on the Seminoles' throat. 
"We never thought we had it won," wide receiver and Notre Dame's Orange Bowl MVP Derrick Mayes said. "Florida State's a great team. We knew it'd be a shootout until the end." 
The Seminoles answered immediately with two touchdowns, each in drives of less than two minutes and each on touchdown passes by Kannell. The first went to receiver E.G. Green, who also made a crucial fourth down grab on Florida State's second scoring drive, which ended with a three-yard scoring ''I'm sure Derrick will catch it." able to keep the fearful Irish running strike from Kannell to Andre Cooper, It looked in the first half like Mayes game in check and out of the end zone. Florida State's Orange Bowl MVP. would be snakebitten in his final Notre Warrick Dunn, on the other hand, 
"I told our quarterback in the fourth Dame game. The senior had several methodically piled up 151 yards on 22 quarter to get the ball high to Andre and plays, including a 51-yard punt return carries against an Irish defense that see if he makes the plays," Florida State for a touchdown, called back because of showed signs of fatigue. coach Bobby Bowden said. "Thank blocking in the back penalties. "We figured we could stay on them, goodness he made enough to win." The penalties were a symbol of Notre but we couldn't," nose guard Paul 
Cooper only caught four passes for 38 Dame's execution, which struggled Grasmanis said. "We were a little worn yards, but three were for touchdowns. throughout the game. It started when down. They got to us in the end." Kannell was 20-of-32 passing for 290 Scott Cengia missed a 35-yard field goal It was an ironic game, to say the least. yards and an Orange Bowl record four on Notre DamA's first possession. Later Holtz, who has always taken pride in his touchdowns. He was intercepted twice. in the first quarter, the Irish had to set­team's power and smashmouth style, 
Trying to counter for Notre Dame tle for a 20-yarder after failing to con­used Bowden-esque trickery like a fake Mayes, who had six receptions for 96 vert inside the Seminole 10. punt and five-receiver formations to try yards and two touchdowns, including a "Anytime you get in scoring position to throw the Seminoles off. highlight film tip-and-catch in the end and don't push it in, it's just disgrace­Bowden did the opposite. He relied on zone over Samari Rolle. ful," offensive guard Ryan Leahy said. the quick legs of Dunn and an aggres­
"It's a great feeling knowing I can just But Florida State had a lot to do with sive defense to mount a comeback. throw it," said Krug, who fought off a that. Even after losing leading tackler "It was a game of making plays," Holtz case of nausea to complete 14 of 24 Sam Cowart to a knee injury in the first said. "We couldn't make mistakes like passes for 140 yards and three scores. quarter, the Seminole defense was still we did." 
• GRADED POSITION ANALYSIS 

throw for 290 yards and four scores.
. Quarterback A-Thomas Krug threw for three touchdowns and 140 
Linebackers B-
yards. He ran for 45 more, And most of all, he was a leader on the field\. The playmakers didn't make anything happen. Florida State controlled the game in the fourth quarter. 
Running Backs B Secondary C+
The big rUl1swere there, but Denson, Edwards and There's no doubt Florida State's plan was to takeFarmer couldn't finish them off with touchdowns. 
advantage of Allen Rossum's and Ivory Covington's Edwards' fumble at the e;nd was big. 
height. LaRon Moore and Shawn Wooden played well in their finales, but Brian Magee was a step slow. 
Receivers B+ ·Derrick Mayes was the MVP with two touchdown Special Teams C catches and Pete Chryplewicz caught another. But Mayeshad a touchdown called back because of a clip, there were more blocks in the back than statues in a muchlike.Rocket five years ago. Hunter Smith punted wax musemn; well but Scott Cengia continued the Irish kicking woes. 
Offensive Line B . r. Coaching B Notre Dame racked up 425·yards of total· offense, but ·The new look offense made it exciting but the team the line had trouble picking up Seminole blitzes. ..lacked a killer instinct in the fourth quarter. 
Defensive Line C+ Overall Grade 2.82 
Warrick Dunn contipued hisdomin~tion of the Irisb Tbe Irish dominated the Seminoles for three quarters witb.lS1· y&r<is rushipg. They got some pressure on '~!!!!before seeingit all slip away in the fourth. It leaves a Danny Kannell, butthe Seminoles QB still had time to few doubts for next year.. ~~Mike Norbut 
L________________________________________ --­
--~-­

------------------------------~-----. 
Wednesday, January 17, 1996 The Observer • IRISH EXTRA page 3 
Wear and tear, Seminoles rip Irish defense 
Fatigue contributes to disappointing fourth quarter let-down 
By MEGAN McGRATH 
Sports Writer 
MIAMI 

For three quarters, the Fighting Irish defensive seemed to have Florida State's number, allwit just barnly. 
The Seminoles possessed one of the top offenses in tlw land, avnraging over 40 points a game !wading into the Orange Bowl, and twice had posted 60 points or more. 
Notre Dame managed to hold Florida State to just 14 points at the half and a mere 227 yards of total offense. But when push eanw to shove. thn Irish dflfense found themsnlves being pushed and shoved en route to a fourth quarter collapse. 
"That might be the best defensive team we played this year," Florida State coach Bobby Bowden said. "The way to beat people with great skill is to beat them at the line of scrimmage, and I was afraid they might do just that." 
Early in the game, the Irish were able to control the line of scrimmage, but the athleticism of Florida State forced the Irish into a dangerous "bend-but­don't-break" defense most of the night . They avoided giving up huge plays, but allowed the 

Seminole split end E.G. Green beats Shawn Wooden for a fourth quarter touchdown that narrowed the Irish lead to 26-21. 

PREV­TEAM RECORD POINTS IOUS 
1. Nebraska (62) 12-0-0 1550 1 
2. Florida (5) 11-1-0 1474 2 
3. Tennessee 11-1-0 1428 4 
4. Florida State 10-2-0 1311 8 
5. Colorado 10-2-0 1309 7 
6. Ohio State 11-2-0 1161 4 
7. Kansas State 10-2-0 1147 10 
8. Northwestern 10-2-0 1124 3 
9. Kansas 10-2-0 1029 11 10. Virginia Tech 10-2-0 1015 13 11. Notre Dame 9-3-0 931 6 12. Southern Cal 9-2-1 886 17 13. Penn State 9-3-0 867 15 14. Texas 10-2-1 724 9 15. Texas A&M 9-3-0 661 19 16. Virginia 9-4-0 603 18 17. Michigan 9-4-0 474 14 18. Oregon 9-3-0 416 12 19. Syracuse 9-3-0 382 20. Miami (Fia) 8-3-0 352 22 21. Alabama 8-3-0 313 21 22. Auburn 8-4-0 276 16 23. Texas Tech 9-3-0 197 24. Toledo 11-0-1 170 25 25. Iowa 8-4-0 133 
'Noles to slowly but surely wear them down. 
In the first quarter, a Shawn Wooden interception stopped the Seminoles' promising first drive. But Florida State answered Notre Dame's first score with one of their own, featuring several long runs by Warriek Dunn. 
The Irish responded by stop­ping the 'Noles cold on their next two possessions, featuring big sacks by Renaldo Wynn and John McLaughlin. 
"We had them pretty discombobulated in the begin­ning," head coach Lou Holtz said. "But then they adjusted." 
In the third quarter, the cracks in Notre Dame's defense began to show. On their second possession of the quarter, quarterback Danny Kanell picked apart the secondary for three straight first downs. But Ivory Covington responded with an interception to stop the drive. However, the Irish couldn't benefit as the offense went three and out and the weary defense took the field again. 
The wear was evident in the fourth quarter. After the de­fense flustered Kanell into a safety, the Seminoles scored on their next two possessions to put the Irish away. 
"I don't think there's any doubt that we got worn out," Holtz said. "It was a hot and humid day. They probably turned up the tempo a little bit too much." 
The performance was a let­down for the defensive unit, whose steady improvement 
• By the Book 
TEAM STATISTICS  
FSU  ND  
First downs  26  17  
Rushes-yards  37-188  45-256  
Passing yards  290  169  
Comp-att-inl  20-33-2  15-26-1  
Return yards  130  131  
Fumbles-lost  1-0  2-1  
Penalties-yards  7-59  7-55  
Punts-ave  3-44  5-42.4  
3rd down conv  6-13  7-16  
4th down conv  1-2  2-2  
Possession time  28:13  31:47  
INDIVIDUAL STATISTICS  

RUSHING -Notre Dame: Farmer 7-93, Denson 11-67, Edwards 14-55, Krug 11-45, Thorne 1-4, Sollman 1-(8). Florida State: Dunn 22-151, Preston 6-55, Williams 2-7, Abdullah 2­2, Kanell 5-(27). 
PASSING -Notre Dame: Krug 14-24, 140 yards, 3 TO's, Smith 1-1, 29, Edwards 0-1, 
• Scoring Summary 
SCORE BY QUARTERS 
1  2  3  4  F  
Notre Dame  10  0  7  9  26  
Florida State  7  7  0  17  31  

SCORING SUMMARY FIRST QUARTER Notre Dame 7, Florida State 0 (5 plays, 50 yards, 1 :55) 
8:27 -Tom Krug hits Derrick Mayes on a 39 yard TO pass (Scott Cengia PAT). Key Play: Shawn Wooden intercepted Kanell and positioned the Irish offense at the 50 yard line. 
Notre Dame 7, Florida State 7 (7 plays, 81 yards, 2: 19) 
6:08 -Andre Cooper catches a 15 yard TO pass from Kanell (Bentley PAT) Key Play: Warrick Dunn's 23-yard run put the Seminoles in a scoring opportunity. 
Notre Dame 10, Florida State 7 (14 plays, 62 yards, 6:06) 
0:02 -Scott Cengia converts a 20 yard field goal kick. Key Play: Charles Stafford picks up a first down on a third down and seven. 
SECOND QUARTER Florida State 14, Notre Dame 1 0 (10 plays, 59 yards, 4:44) 
2:30 -Kanell throws a 1 0 yard pass to Cooper for his second score (Bentley PAT). Key Play: Kanell throws for a first down lo Messam on 3rd and 8. 

over the course of the season especially today" senior LaRon helped the Irish into the Orange Moore said. "Everyone was Bowl and made coach Bob there for each other and no one Davie a candidate for head was patronizing." coaching slots all over the Fellow seniors Brian Magee country. and Wooden added seven and 
A squad primarily led by ju­six hits respectively. But all of niors, several seniors on the Irish defensive backs strug­defense made their last game a gled with coverage, allowing memorable one. Kannll to thread the defense in 
Safety LaRon Moore, criti­the second half . cized throughout the season, "Danny threw some good had a good outing in his last balls and our receivers were game for the Irish, making a catching the ball," Bowden said team-high eight tackles. of his quarterback, who com­
"I think our senior leadership pleted 20 of 32 passes for 290 was better as the year went on, yards and three touchdowns. 
Florida State: Kannell 20-32. 290. 4 TO's. Dunn 0-1. 
RECEIVING -Notre Dame: Mayes 6-96, 2 TO's, Chryplewicz 3-16, 1 TD, Edwards 2-25, Stafford 2-14, Mosley 1-13, Farmer 1-3 Florida State: Messam 6-103, E. Green 5-99, 1 TD, Cooper 4-36, 3 TO's, Dunn 2-19, Williams 2-17, Abdullah 1-14. 
TACKLES-Notre Dame: Cobbins 8, Moore 8, Magee 7, Wynn 6, Wooden 6, Minor 5, Rossum 5, Berry 4, Covington 4, Grasmanis 4, Mclaughlin 3, Monahan 2, Tatun 1, Howard 1, Wagasy 1, D. Smith 1, Bennett 1, Edison 1, Stallard 1, Sollman 1, H. Smith 1, Carretta 1. Florida State: Hamlet 7, Rebol 6, Rolla 5, Capers 5, Bush 5, Colzie 3, Wadsworth 3, Marion 3, Spikes 3, Pittman 3, Spain 2, Hammond 2, Key 2, Battles 2, Green 2, Crockett 2, Roye 2, Saunders 1, Humphrey 1, Edwards 1, Crawford 1, Wilson 1, Cowart 1, Boulware 1, Harrell 1, Green 1, Crowe 1, Abdullah 1. 
THIRD QUARTER Notre Dame 17, Florida State 14 (10 plays, 55 yards, 4:58) 
8:04 -Derrick Mayes gets his second TD on a 33 yard Krug pass (Cengia PAT). Key Play: Krug runs for four yards on a fourth and three at the Florida State 36. 
FOURTH QUARTER Notre Dame 19, Florida State 14 
13:44 -Kanell steps out of the end zone for a safety. 
Notre Dame 26, Florida State 14 (5 plays, 63 yards. 2:01) 
11 :43 -Pete Chryplewicz catches a five yard TO pass from Krug (Cengia PAT). Key Play: Farmer breaks free for a 51 yard gain on 3rd and two. 
Notre Dame 26, Florida State 21 (5 plays, 73 yards, 1 :56) 9:47-Kanell finds E.G. Green for an 
11 yard TO strike (Bentley PAT). Key Play: Kanell threw for passes of 24 and 21 yards. 
Florida State 29, Notre Dame 26 (6 plays, 30 yards, 1 :39) 
6:09 -Cooper scores his third TO on a three yard pass from Kanell (Kanell hits Cooper for the two point conversion). Key Play: Kanell hits Green for a 22 yard gain on a fourth and four situation. 
Florida State 31, Notre Dame 26 
2:02 -Florida State is awarded a safe­ty when Tom Krug is called for intentional grounding in the end zone. 
Shennan 
continued from page 1 

The Seminoles realized their error but without any timeouts, they had to resort to a little bit of chicanery to get the right personnel in the game. 
Conveniently, Warriek Dunn began writhing on the ground with an apparently serious injury. Once the right people were in the game, Dunn got to his feet -holding his wrist. That's right, his wrist. The 'Noles got the two and Dunn was right back in the next series handling the ball without problems. You have to wonder. 
... Also lost in the collapse of the fourth quarter was the importance of Scott Cengia's missed field goal that ended Notre Dame's impressive 
-
first drive. With those points, it might have been a completely different story on the fate-sealing· safety. If tied at 29 and on their own three yard­line, a slip screen that hadn't really worked all 
evening very well wouldn't have been the call. 
It raises an interesting dilemma for the Irish coaching staff in terms of this season's recruit­ing. With two young kickers already on scholar­ship (placekicker Kevin Kopka and punter Hunter Smith). Notre Dame may not be able to afford to devote another scholarship to an area that continues to be a glaring weakness. But can they afford not to. You have to wonder. 
... Speaking of major deficiencies, the loss pre­viewed next season's most troublesome area ­who is going to catch the ball? 
Much to their credit, the Irish coaching staff came out with some great wrinkles, specifically, ­the multiple wide-out sets. However, the Irish just did not have the personnel to pull it off with as much success as they should have. Marc Edwards and Pete Chryplewicz are great at their respective positions, but when lined up in a trips formation, they're not going to be respected enough by opposing defenses to make it worth­while. Notre Dame just didn't have the requisite talent at the receiver spot to make it click. 
Maybe realizing that an option quarterback is not in the immediate future, Holtz indicated that the Irish will be using such formations next sea­son. The question is, with who? Derrick Mayes is gone and the outlook for help is bleak. Emmett Mosley is a nice complimentary receiver and frosh Bobby Brown shows promise but the list is awful thin after that. You have to wonder. 

Wednesday, January 17, 1996

page 4 The Observer • IRISH EXTRA 
.. 
The Observer/Brent Tadsen 

Olie the Orange keeps things light down on the sideline. Whoever was inside of the 
comedic citrus had to have a rough time with the humidiity, all the while being vigiliant 
for cheap-shot artist Charley Steiner. 
Florida State 31 Notre Dame 26 
Orange Bowl Stadium January 1, 1996 


By MIKE NORBUT Sports Editor 
MIAMI 

Though the outcome was an unfa­vorable one for Irish faithful-a 31­26 defeat at the hands of Florida State-the whole Notre Dame entourage can take comfort in the fact that they took part in the last Orange Bowl. 
-
There will be an Orange Bowl next year. Just not in the Orange Bowl. Sound confusing? Try being part of 
the Orange Bowl committee. 
For the past 62 years, the Orange Bowl has been played in the stadium of the same name. Next year, it will be held up the road a piece, at the re­cently built Joe Robbie Stadium, home of the NFL's Miami Dolphins. 
The game will still be the Orange Bowl, though. Somehow, the Joe Robbie Bowl doesn't sound right. 
"In order to preserve the tradition of our game and participate in the 



Bowl Alliance, it has become neces­sary for us to move our future FedEx Orange Bowl game to Joe Robbie Stadium," Orange Bowl Committee President Donald E. Kubit wrote in the game program. "But we must remember that it is the event and not the site-the game and not the stadi­um-that has made our game the premier college football sporting event which it is today." 
During its existence, the Orange Bowl has hosted 13 national champi­onships, including Nebraska's 24-17 win over Miami in 1995's version. 
UNLUCKY ELEVEN: With his sec­ond consecutive New Year's loss, Holtz's all-time bowl record falls to 10-8-2. As the 11th win continues to elude him, it seems that eleven is a number that has haunted him as of late. 
In addition to being mired in the quagmire in search of eleven bowl wins, Holtz's team dropped to 11th in the final Associated Press poll. 
Moreover, they became Florida State's and coach Bobby Bowden's 11th consecutive bowl victim, an NCAA record. 
"I didn't talk to the boys about the streak," Bowden said. "It's enough meaning to me to coach a team that beats Notre Dame in the Orange Bowl." 
Bowden is now 15-3-1 in bowl games, tied for second in wins with the legendary Alabama coach Paul "Bear" Bryant. Penn State's Joe Paterno is first with 17, while Holtz is tied for fourth. 
Holtz is 11th all-time with 208. 

YOUNG RECRUITS: The Irish, who worked out at Barry University while in Miami, had a few special visitors at practice before the game. 
lloltz's son, Skip, and his grandson, Trey, were out a few days before the game. The 20-month old superstar held for some kicks after practice. 
"His parents are here because we invited Trey," Holtz said. "We did not invite my son and have him just bring Trey. We invited Trey to practice." 
Skip Holtz, his father's former offensive coordinator, just received a contract extension as head eoaeh at Connecticut. 
OVERTIME: Had the intentional grounding not been called against Notre Dame quarterback Thomas Krug and had the Irish driven down the field to tie the game at 29 with a Scott Cengia field goal, the game would not have ended in a tie. 
Instead, an overtime would have been played to ensure a winner. 
The format for the bowl game over­time is similiar to that of high school football, with a team getting four downs to score from the ten. 
"They ought to do it the way the pros do," Holtz said. "The reason they don't is nobody asked me." 
·';. 


WeJnesday, January 17, 1996 
page 13 

' even h . 
ave one? 

s I Choice Avvards 
in November, we asked you all to fill out our ent surveys. Happily, you agreed. (Some of u're pretty funny. You are.) We finally finished ough the mounds of paper a little while ago e proud to present you with the results. joy and best of everything in 1996! 
RST NEW BAND? THE REMBRANDTS ~He~g~~~~~sebeen 
around for a while?) 


MALE ARTIST? ALANIS MORISSETTE. 
RE ARE FICKLE" WORST FEMALE ARTIST? 
-
RISSETTE (TIED WITH COURTNEY LOVE) ALE ARTIST: BRUCE SPRINGSTEEN T MALE ARTIST: MICHAEL BOLTON 
EO: BEASTIE BOYS with SABOTAGE (wasn'tthat94?) 
: APOLLO 13, BRAVEHEART and SEVEN 
TV SHOW: FRIENDS, ER, SEINFELD tegory: FAVORITE CHILDHOOD CARTOONS: 


page 14 The Observer • SPORTS Wednesday, January 17, 1996 
• MEN'S BASKETBALl 
Notre Dame learned lessons during Villanova romp 

By TIM SEYMOUR 
Associate Sports Editor 

PHILADELPHIA 
Given the benefit of hindsight, Notre Dame's January 2nd 76­57 loss at Villanova proves the perfect foil to Notre Dame's lat­est defeat at the hands of Georgetown. 
Senior guard Ryan Hoover noted after the loss to the Hoyas that, "We aren't real excited about moral victories at this point." Still, looking back to the debacle at du Pont, it does seem that the Irish are pointed in the right direction. 
In contrast to the Georgetown game, against Villanova the Irish were never close, trailing by 14 at the break and getting no closer is the second half. 
Like the Hoyas, the Wildcats are a Top Ten squad and the clear class of the Big East. The Irish played like those acco­lades spoke for themselves. 
Villanova's trapping defense wreaked havoc with Notre Dame's offensive sets, as the long arms of Alvin Williams and Kerry Kittles forced the Irish into 15 turnovers and numer­ous bad shots. 
"When they double-teamed us and trapped us, we got back on our heels and started putting the ball above our head -all the things we don't want to do," said Irish head coach John MacLeod after the game. 
At the other end, Villanova's backcourt was putting on a clinic in moving without the ball for the benefit of the Irish, as Williams went for 22 points while Kittles added 17 points, seven assists, and seven boards. 
After the game, Wildcat head coach Steve Lappas may have given MacLeod some food for thought when he suggested that "it's easier to prepare for a team that 99.9% of the time plays man." The Irish avoided a similar showing against the Hoyas by employing a zone for the first time in five years. 
Notre Dame also seems to have adjusted to the physical nature of the Big East, battling the bigger Hoyas to a 43-34 advantage on the boards after getting pushed around by Villanova's post players. 
Hoover seems to have adjust­ed as well. The Wildcats held him to six points by playing aggressive defense and making him put the ball on the floor, something he's been reluctant to do in the past. Against a similarly quick Hoya squad, he was able to free himself for 26 points. 
The lessons learned at Villanova came at a hefty price, but the Irish seem to have learned them well. 


Rodman does it all as Bulls continue supreme dominance 
By MIKE NADEL showed he could play an all­said of Rodman's 3-point shoot­sitting pretty in this league," in the world. That shouldn't be, Associated Press around game," said Jordan, ing. ''I'm happy he did it. We Chicago's Luc Longley said. but it is." whose 15-foot jumper with 10 were pretty much in control at It took Rodman 700 games to Jerry Stackhouse scored 24 CHICAGO minutes to play gave Rodman the time. But let's just let it get his first triple-double, but it points for Philadelphia (7-27), 
d. ..

For one night, Dennis his lOth assist. "I told him, 'All re. is what Rodman does nightly -which fell a mere 24 1/2 games Rodman took over the title of you have to do is pass to me on Jordan had 32 points for the rebound like a demon -that behind Chicago in the race for Mr. Do-lt-All for the Chicago the last one. I'm pretty sure I Bulls (32-3), who have won impressed Philadelphia coach the Eastern Conference title. Bulls. can get a free shot.' " nine in a row overall. Their John Lucas. Rodman, the NBA's Stackhouse even exchanged in­
Rodman had his first career home winning streak, matching top rebounder four seasons sults with Rodman, resulting in triple-double Tuesday night Rodman even hit a 3-pointer, their mark set in 1990-91, running, had 13 boards to the a technical foul for each player, with 10 points, 21 rebounds his first as a Bull after eight includes 19 games this season 76ers' 12 in the first half. after a hard foul by Rodman in and a career-high 10 assists as misses behind the arc. It came and the final seven last year. the third quarter. Chicago tied a team record with on the final play of the first half They haven't lost at the United "Dennis Rodman just kicked Jordan was coming off 48­its 26th straight home victory after he took a pass from Center since March 24 -our butts on the glass all and 46-point performances. by beating the Philadelphia Scottie Pippen, dribbled back­Jordan's first home game after night," said Lucas, who The former came at 76ers 116-104. ward several feet and fired coming out of retirement. coached Rodman during one of Philadelphia on Saturday, when 
away as 1/8the capacity crowd the forward's two tumultuous much was made of Jordan 
"It was unexpected. You ex­celebrated. "Anyone who establishes seasons in San Antonio. "The outscoring fellow North pect maybe 10 points and the "Let's not get too comfortable home-court dominance, espe­guy just has great desire. At 6-Carolina alum Stackhouse 48­rebounding, but the assists? He with that," a smiling Jordan cially going into the playoffs, is 8, he's the greatest rebounder 13. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. 
Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
Classifieds 
Spring Break! Panama City! 8 Days  GREEK/LATIN HELP WANTED.  ALASKA EMPLOYMENT·  
NOTICES  Room With Kitchen $119! Walk to Best Bars! 7 Nights tn Key West  Graduate Patristics student knowl­edge in the Fathers needed urgent- Students Needed! Fishing Industry. Earn up to $3,000-$6,000+ per  FOR SALE  Anyone interested in joing the WVFI news department for the spring  
$259! Cocoa Beach Hilton (Great  ly for translation and library  month. Room and Board!  semsester, please call X2036.  
Spring Break Bahamas Party  Beaches-Near Disney) $1691  research. Call any1ime 219-848­ Transportation! Male or Female. No  
Cruise! Early Specials! 7 Days  Day1ona $139! http://www.spring­ 5187.  experience necessary. Call  The Dating Handbook-2002 Things  Attention Juniors  
- $279! Includes 15 Meals & 6 Parties! Great Beaches/Nightlife!  breaktravel.com. 1-800-678-6386  COUNSELORS, COACHES:  (206)971-3510 ext A55843  to do on a Date. Fun. Silly, Romantic, Unique-132 pages.  Class Ski Trip Tickets are NOW on  
Prices Increase 11/21 & 12/15!  Outstanding Maine girls camp has  Area company seeking accounting  $8.95 to Goshen Publishers, 422  sale at the Lafortune Info desk!!  
Spring Break Travel1·800-678­ AUDITIONS! AUDITIONS!  summer opportunities for mature  professional. Salary $30's.  W. Lincoln Hwy, Suite 121, Exton,  
6386  Farley Hall Players' production of  Counselors and Coaches: Tennis,  Permanent position. Fee paid.  PA 19341  Join us on Jan. 27-28 for a great  
"Royal Gambit"  Soccer, Softball, Volleyball,  Accounting software knowledge  day and night of skiing for just $55!  
Thurs 7-9pm, Fri 3-5pm  Baksetball, PE Majors, Gymnastics,  and experience in MS-DOS/LAN  
Spring Break! Panama City! Early Specials! 8 Days Oceanview Room  in Farley Basement Call Monica x4253 for details  Lifeguards, WSI, Waterskiing·, Sailing, Canoeing, Pioneering,  required. NOVELL a plus. Call 219-825-3909.  PERSONAL  The Inferno rages on. When is 'ol #24 going to get his due. J.R.  
With Kitchen $129! Walk To Best  AUDITIONS! AUDITIONS!  Ropes, Piano Accompaniast, AN's  Reid's spot as the best player col- 
Bars! Key West $259! Cocoa Beach Hilton $169! Prices Increase 11/21 & 12115! 1-800-678-6386  ILOST&FOUNDI  and Video. Accent is on fun and quality instruction. High salary plus travel allowance. Send resume to  FOR RENT  Carson-God knows what you do  lege is rapidly being endangered. Ja Cha Tcha Jaa Chaa. Man-to- 
Camp Pinecliffe, 277 South  One person furnished apt.  to his creatures. Judgement day  Man.  
Cassingham Road, Columbus. OH  3.5 miles from campus  is near.  
Cancun & Jamaica Spring Break  I lost a very special gold heart  43209.  Must see  Ivory Coast, with the Felton  
Specials! 111% Lowest Price  bracelet either at the JACC or  Call after 6:00 232-0355  Spenser ball fake.  
Guarantee! 7 Nights Air From South  Senior Bar on Jan. 15. If you found  0o0o0o0o0o0o0o0o0o0o0  
Bend & Hotel From $419! Book  it please call Erin at 232-7991.  Will you be paying rent on an empty  THE POTATO HOUSE 8 BED- Happy Birthday Jeff, Sean, Eric,  
Early! Save $100 On Food/Drinks!  apartment this summer? Ex ND  ROOM FOR NEXT SCHOOL YEAR  QUALITY COPIES, QUICKLY!!!  Rex, Mason, O'Malley, Harry, Scull,  
Spring Break Travel1-800-678­6386  WANTED  staffer and wife wish to rent your apt. Reliable, non-smokers, no  ALSO 3-4 BEDROOM HOMES CLOSE TO ND GOOD AREA  THE COPY SHOP LaFortune Student Center  and Andrea. You're all pretty cool.  
pets. References. We have rented  2773097  Phone 631-COPY  Wild one,  
SPRING BREAK'S "HOTTEST  • • • FREE TRIPS & CASH • • •  student apts past 8 summers with  0o0o0o0o0o0o0o0o0o0o0  You remember that darn little yahoo  
TRIPS"  Find out how hundreds of students  arrangements advantages to both  BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY  up there in Racine.  
CANCUN ·SOUTH PADRE  are already earning FREE TRIPS  parties. Will take first apt on which  219-291-7153  
ISLAND -BELIZE  and LOTS OF CASH with  we can agree to terms, so don't  Bounty hunters. We don't need that  Yeah, that's right. Charley Steiner  
1-800-328-7513  America's #1 Spring Break compa­ wait. Call (941 )425-4404 or write  HOMES FOR RENT  scum.  in the house. Ya gotta love the  
http://www .studentadvtrav .com  nyl Sell only 15 trips and travel free!  135 Lakeview Dr., Mulberry FL  232-2595  Yes, sir.  'Center. Dah dah dah, dah dah dah!  
FREE FOOD & DRINK PACKAGE  Choose Cancun, Bahamas.  33860.  Those Rebels won't escape us.  
FOR EARLY SIGN-UPS  Mazatlan. or Florida! CALL NOW!  ROOM FOR RENT. NICE NEIGH- Sir, we have a priority signal from  Dear Colleen.  
TAKE A BREAK STUDENT TRAV­ TEACH ENGLISH ABROAD­ BORHOOD. $300.00/MO. 255­ the Star Destroyer Avenger.  Some day I will aspire to the level of  
EL (800)95-BREAK!  Make up to $25-$45/hr. teaching  9005  There will be a substantial reward  your goats; you are so ambitious!  
Spring Break Bahamas Party  basic conversational English  for the one who finds the  
Cruise! 7 Days $279! Includes 15  WANTED  abroad. Japan, Taiwan, and S.  MISHAWAKA-HOME FOR RENT.  Millennium Falcon. You are free to  PAIN IN MY HEAD  
Meals & 6 Free Parties! Great  Students who want to make extra  Korea. Many employers provide  NEW CONSTRUCTION. 3 BED.-2  use any methods necessary, but I  OH I'D RATHER BE DEAD  
Beaches/Nightlife! Leaves From Ft.  cash delivering The Chicago  room & board + other benefits. No  BATH. $900.00/MO.+  want them alive.  
Lauderdale! http://www.spring- Tribune. Must live on-campus.  teaching background or Asian !an­ 257-0457  No disintegrations!  KAY, BAHYE!  
breaktravel.com 1-800-678-6386  Notre Dame/St. Mary's  guages required. For more informa- As you wish.  
Call 684-4302.  lion call: (206) 971-3570 ext.  Perfect for 2nd Semester  Lord Vader! My lord, we have them.  
J55842  Furnished Student Apts  There's nothing like coming back  
Cancun & Jamaica Spring Break  My dad (N.D.'93) needs ND/SMC  Heat included  from break to find Jesus living in  
Specials! 111% Lowest Price  students to care for me when he  NATIONAL PARKS HIRING­ -large 1 bedrm, $330  ADOPTION  your section.  
Guarantee! 7 Nights Air & Hotel  and my mom work. Hrs vary 8A­ Positions are now available at  -small 1 bedrm, $260  A wonderful home awaits your  
From $429! Save $100 On  2P, M-F. Call273-4642.  National Parks, Forests & Wildlife  -studio, $235  baby. Happily married, financially  Alan,  
Food/Drinks! http:f/www.spring- Preserves. Excellent benefits +  755 South Bend Ave-1 blk west of  secure couple will give much love.  If they don't use the gloves to make  
breaktravel.com  Wanted, ride to IU Blooomington  bonuses! Call: 1-206-971-3620 ext.  ND Ave  Expenses paid. Call Margaret or  the cookies, then what are they for?  
1-800-678-6386  Friday, Jan 26. Call Adam 4-1767  N55844  deposit, references 1-800-582-9320  Peter at 800-529-8386.  

Wednesday, January 17, 1996 The Observer· SPORTS page 15 

Suns fire Westphal, Fitzsimmons hired for third time 
By MEL REISNER 
Associated Press 
PJIOENIX 

Coach Paul Westphal, his Phoenix Suns under .500 and hampered by injuries to key players, was fired today and replaced by his mentor and for­mer Suns eoach Cotton Fitzsimmons. 
"The injuries that we sus­tained have taken their toll and as a result we got to a point where I believe it was time to shuffie the eards-to make the change -before the season was over," owner and presi­dent Jerry Colangelo said dur­ing a news conference at America West Arena. 
Westphal, a former Suns star w.ho returned to Phoenix for the 1992-93 season, coached the club to 59 victories and the Pacific Division title last year. This year the Suns (14-19) have been plagued by injuries to Charles Barkley and Danny Manning and have lost seven of their last 10 games. 
Fitzsimmons, the Suns' vice president and TV-radio color analyst, will guide the Suns for the third time. Fitzsimmons, 65, put together a 217-111 record from 1988-1992 and a 97-67 record from 1970-72. 
MCAT • MCAT • MCAT Are You Prepared? 
WeAre.  
~ r:iJ rsl ~ Ci\ ~  small classes of 15 or fewer free Caduceus software free extra help with your instructor four computer-analyzed diagnostic exams independently verified score improvements guaranteed satisfaction  
THE PRINCETON REVIEW I  

Classes begin Feb 3rd. for the April 20, 1996 test. 
(800) 2-REVIEW 
The Princeton Review is not affiliated with Princeton University or the AAMC. 
"I really look forward to the challenge because I do see a light at the end of the tunnel," he said. "I do think this team is capable of playing good basket­ball ball and winning." 
The coaching change was bit­tersweet for Fitzsimmons, who brought Westphal in as an assistant and spent four years grooming him for the job. 
"I look forward to the chal­lenge, but I'm not necessarily glad to be here," Fitzsimmons said, adding that he had noth­ing but praise for Westphal. 
"If any of you want to ask me any negative questions about Paul and his coaching ... don't do it with me." 
Fitzsimmons will not be an interim coach, Colangelo said. 
"He is the new head coach of the Phoenix Suns. At some point in the future, we'll deter­mine whether or not there's going to be a coaching change and I have no idea so don't ask me what thta means. He is the new coach of the Phoenix Suns, period," he said. 
Players were told of the move before their scheduled practice. 
"I would like to say I was sur­prised, but being in the league 11 years, I've seen this before," center Joe Kleine told the Phoenix Gazette. "I could kind of see it coming. You don't want to say it's all Paul's fault, because it's not. There are a Jot of circumstances he had no control over, and in some ways a coach can't make players play better. 
"Paul's a guy who gave a Jot of responsibility to the players. So, we have to take some responsibility for what has hap­pened to him. But something had to be done. In the NBA, 
The Observer 
The Viewpoint Department is hiring for this semester: 
Associate Viewpoint Editor Assistant Viewpoint Editor Viewpoint Copy Editor 
Submit a resume to Michael O'Hara at The Observer by January 26, 314 LaFortune. For information call631-4541. 
that's the way things happen it's not the players, it's the coach." 
Westphal's laid back coaching style and the team's perceived lack of discipline came under criticism in recent weeks, espe­cially beeause the Suns are ranked among the league's poorest defensive teams this season. 
The Suns opened the season with an 8-11 record, their worst start since going 8-12 in 1987-88. 
Even some players admitted the team was playing boring basketball, and Colangelo called Westphal into a meeting in mid-December, saying he was unhappy with the team's play. 
Other injured Suns include Mario Bennett, John Coker, Kevin Johnson, John Williams and Stefano Rusconi. 
The Suns also have one of the league's biggest payrolls. Barkley gets $11.5 million over three seasons. Manning gets $40 million over six seasons, Johnson earns $10 million over two seasons and A.C. Green gets $20.5 million over four seasons. 
Last week. Barkley said he heard he was on the trading bloek, possibly involving a deal with the New York Knicks. But the Suns and Knicks said there was nothing to the deal, and Colangelo vehemently denied that Barkley would be dealt. 
"We're not trading Charles Barkley, unless someone ofi'ers us a blockbuster deal," that can't be passed, he said. "There are no deals on the table of any kind." 

a) 
I had four finals, a project and five papers; I just forgot. 

b) 
I just made a New Year's resolution to do something good for myself. 


Whether you chose a), b) or llnone of the above,11 
you still have time to sign up for Communities ND. 
Sign up by Friday Jan. 19 at either the Badin Hall or 103 Hesburgh Library office of Campus Ministry. 
The RALLY DAY to begin Communities ND takes place on Saturday, Jan. 20 from 11 am -4 pm in the LaFortune Ballroom. 

a) 
small Christian communities at Notre Dame, open to ALL undergraduates 

b) 
co-ed, student-led groups of 8-10 undergraduates which meet every other week 

c) 
a chance to share prayer and conversation and to learn about your faith 

d) 
all of the above 


did you guess d)? it's the best answer --no partial credit 
Any questions? Call Darrell Paulsen or Kate Barrett at 631-5242. A
IWJ! 

(?MPUS Com-ties fi MINISTRY The Challenge of ;AcJ..,It Ch,.istianity 
page 16 The Observer • SPORTS Wednesday, January 17, 1996 
•NFL 

Super Bowl-bound Steelers creating own history 
By ALAN ROBINSON 
Associated Press 

PITTSBURGH 
Finally, Pittsburgh and the Steelers can quit living in the 1970s. 
Disco and polyester suits can die a deserved death. Fans can dismantle those game room shrines to Franco and Mean Joe. And the Steelers can escape the time warp that be­gan with the Immaculate Reception and seemed destined to encapsulate the franchise and its fans forever. 
It's been a long time coming, 16 years to be precise, but the Steelers are going to the Super Bowl again, and there's not a single player named Bradshaw, Ham, Stallworth or Blount on their roster. The coach is Bill Cowher, not Chuck Noll, and the players are long removed from those that earned Pittsburgh its cherished nick­
•.SPOR11 BRI&FS :~':;::;M~; 

Late Night Olympies X~ Late N~gh,t Olympics is lJ¢hednled for Friday, Febmary 2. st~g at 7p.m, 1n the Joyq_e Cente( For more information contactyout HallIt Representative ··········.·.or RecSports at 1-6100, <& 
Late ~!gbt Ol>mp'c~.. X M~.s· A·Meal.;. On Jan. 22 or 23 in the Dining Hall sign-up to skip a meal on Jan. 31, and epro• ceeds iwill go 
to ··· · · 1 
OlympiCs. 

lntercollegia.(e Any9!le interested· · com'petftively ... ' niterc'ollegiat vet please contact Jason at 4-1065. Tennis Mixer 71Come aJJ.d be paired up with aVarsity Tennis player in doubles competition on Jan. 22 at the Eck Tennis Pavilion. For more information call RecSports at 1·6100. 
Scuba Course • The informa­tion meeting for this course is scheduled for Jan. 21at 3:30 
p.m. in Rockne Rm. 218;( For more information if:\' call RecSports. 
Sbo Rin Ryu Karate • Students are instructed accord­ing to traditional Okinawan techniques. A demonstration will be held Jan. 30 at 6:30 
p.m. in Rockne Rm. 219~ Call 1-6100 for more information. 
Tae Kwon Do-Students are instructed in accordance with World Tae Kwon Do Federation techniques. A demonstration is scheduled for Jan. 28 at 3:(}0 
p.m. in Rockne Rm. 301. Call RecSports for more informa­tion. 
Ballet RecSports will be
w 

sponsoring a Beginner and an Advanced Ballet class. An information session will be held on Jan. 28 at 1:00 p.m. in Rockne Rm. 301. Call RecSports for more informa­tion. 
Jazz Dance • A Jazz dance class will be offered. There will be an information session on Jan. 30 at 6:00 p.m. in Rockne Rm. 219. Sign-ups begin Jan. 31 at 8:00 a.m. in the RecSports office. For more information call RecSports. 
Cross-Country Ski Clinics ­There will be a clinic on Jan. 24 at 4:30 p.m., Jan. 27 at 2:00p.m., and Feb. 3 at 12:30 
p.m. To register in advance, and for more information. call RecSports. 
name of City of Champions. 
At last, Generation X has a Super Bowl team of its own to embrace. Many in Pittsburgh would say it's about time. 
"I think we've been going through a process here, the road to the Super Bowl," defen­sive end Ray Seals said. "The first time (1995) we came close, and now we're going there. We know what's gone on here before, and there would have been no hooray, hooray stuff until we got there." 
Cowher, 38, himself never played for the Steelers, but he grew up in Pittsburgh in the 1970s and saw how the Super Bowls electrified and energized a city. He remembers Terrible Towels twirling by the thou­sands and the tornado-loud roar of noise that engulfed Three Rivers Stadium during big Steelers' home games. 
Even when he infrequently returned home from playing football at North Carolina State, his father, Bill, a Steelers' sea­son ticket holder. kept him updated on team news. 
Now, his father still offers coaching advice, just as he did from the grandstands when Noll was the coach, only his son is the recipient. 
"He still tells me what I should have done," Cowher said. "And it's great. Like I said before, there's a tradition that's been here, and we think it's great. We recognize it's a dif­ferent era and a different time, the Steelers' tense 20-16 AFC championship game victory over the Indianapolis Colts. 
Tormented by three oh-so­close Pirates' pennant runs from 1990-92 and the Steelers' excruciating AFC championship game loss to San Diego last sea­son, Pittsburgh finally has a winner to cheer again. 
"The greatest joy is to see Dan Rooney go through this again," Cowher said, referring to the Steelers pesident. 
"That's special to me. He's a special man, and a special per­son, and this is a great city. To see this come back, the Pittsburgh-Dallas Super Bowls, it's going to special." 
Of course, those Steelers teams of the 1970s set a prece­dent that this team and those that follow can match only with perfection. The Steelers are 4-0 in the Super Bowl, the only AFC team with so enviable a record, and are 2-0 against the Cowboys. 
and we've kind of got our own personality. But at the same 
Spring Break '96 Spring Break '96 
time, what coach Noll and the 

Bahamas
Steelers were able to do in the 1970s revitalized this town. 
"You're seeing a little bit of that now. It's kind of like the next generation." 
Round Trip Air Fare 


Seven (7) nights lodging at choice hotel. 
He saw it again Sunday, when 
•

Welcome pany with complimentary Island beverage. 
fans streamed from the stands 
Beach parties, FREE food, FREE drinks and more. Exclusive FREE or discounted admission to Nassau's honest clubs. Plus much, much, morel 
to celebrate on field with the 
players and coaches following 

1/15 Monday 9am-5pm 1/16 Tuesday 9am-8pm 1/17 Wednesday 9am-8pm 1/18 Thursday 9am-8pm 1/19 Friday 9am-5pm 1/20 Saturday 9am-5pm 
GEAR 
FOI SPOIT! 
Ask for it by name. 
The Hammes 
NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE 
"on the camptts" 


Wednesday, January 17, 1996 The Observer • SPORTS page 17 
• COLLEGE BASKETBALL 
Reason behind Camby's sudden collapse uncertain 
35 


By HOWARD ULMAN 
Assodated Press 
WUHCESTEH, Mass. 
No. 1 Massachusetts should survive the immediate future without its No. 1 player but could be in trouble if Marcus Camby misses more than two weeks. 
Camby, who collapsed Sunday before a game against St. Bonaventure in Olean. N.Y., rest11d in a hospital room 
The Graduate School of International Studies at the University ofDenver 
GSIS offers a diwrsc program of study preparing students for careers in govenunent service, int~'mational organizations, non-profit organizations, business, and academia. 
•MA & PhD in International Studies  •MNMSW with the School of Social Work  
•Mast~TS  in Public Policy  •MIM with the Daniels College of Business  
•MNJD with the College of I.aw  •MAliC with the School of Conununication  

~·or application and bulletin write to: Graduate School of International Studies, Box 101, University of Denver, 2201 S. Gaylord St., Denver, CO 80208 or call (303) 871­2344. 
Tuesday while his teammates returned to practice. 
There was a news blackout on Camby at University of Massachusetts Medical Center, where he was taken Monday for tests. 
Coach John Calipari closed Tuesday's practice as 6-foot-8 Inus Norville and 6-7 Tyrone Weeks prepared to replace the 6-11 Camby, one of the nation's best players, in Wednesday night's home game against Hhode Island. 
"What makes us a great team is that if one guy goes down another steps up," Weeks said. "Coach always asks who's going to step up and, in the last game, it was me." 
Unbeaten Massachusetts won 65-52 as Weeks had career highs of 15 points and 12 rebounds. Weeks said he expected Norville to start Wednesday. 
There was no word on how long Camby would be hospital­ized, although a series of tests before Tuesday found no heart abnormalities and left doctors uncertain what caused the col­lapse after Camby had warmed up for Sunday's game. Camby was unresponsive for about 10 minutes. 
On Monday. team physician James Halph and UMass physi­cian Daniel Clapp said it would be at least 10 days to two weeks before Camby plays. 
Those two weeks are proba­bly the easiest part of a tough schedule for the Minutemen. Camby's absence could help the team develop some much-need-

FOR ONLY 

PER WEEK INCLUDING SUNDAYS 
fl:5 acollege student, the Chic~go Tribune knows your time and money are valuable. That's why we bring the world to you with all the regional, national and international news you want at a 
<fhira.BO [ribune 
price you can afford. ­
ORDER TODAY using the coupon below or, for faster service, call 
1-800-TRIBUNE 1-800-874-2863 Ask for operator 201. 
On-campus delivery will automatically stop for vacations and holidays. 
Mail coupon to: Chicago Tribune, 2000 York Rd., Suite 124, Oak Brook, IL 60521-0001 
CHECK ONE SPRING TERM, 16 WEEKS 
Seven-day D $37.60 ($2.35/wk) 
Mon.-Sat. D $25.60 ($1.60/wk) 
Sun. only D $24.00 ($1.50/wk) 
Payment by: D Check D MasterCard D VISA D American Express D Discover Account No_______________Exp. Date ____________ 
Signature ----------------------------­Name (Please print)---------------------------­
School ______________________________________________________ Address/dorm_____________________~Apt./room no. ___ City_________________State_______Zip ______ 
Phone L__j --------------------------------------------­

In areas not serviced by home delivery, mail subscriptions will be offered. This offer expires March 31, 1996. Offer not valid with any other Chicago Tribune discount. OP201 
ed depth as Weeks and Norville play more. 
Their 14-0 record includes six wins over teams ranked as high as No. 1 when the games were played. Of their 15 remaining opponents before the Atlantic 10 tournament, only No. 11 Virginia Tech-is ranked. 
Their next five games are against Rhode Island (9-4), Duquesne (5-8), Pittsburgh (8­3), St. Bonaventure (5-7) and Fordham (2-9). 
Rhode Island lost by seven points to Dayton, a team Massachusetts beat by 20. 
"We're playing them in their gym. Their people will be pumped up," Hhode Island coach AI Skinner said. "They definitely have the mindset and ability to play well without him." 
He said the Minutemen are a Top 10 team without Camby but wouldn't win the national championship if the 21-year-old junior misses the rest of the season. 
"You can't remove a player that good (and) in a short peri­od of time expect to make those kind of strides," Skinner said. "You've done too much with him and developing your offense around him to change it now." 


No one has suggested publicly that Camby might miss the rest of the season. 
The competition stiffens in a six-game stretch starting Feb. 1 at Temple (7-6 overall and 4-0 in the Atlantic 10). Massachusetts has two games against Temple and one against Virginia Tech in that span. 
Camby, an intimidating shot blocker, is averaging 20.9 points and 7.5 rebounds and is a likely lottery pick if he enters this year's draft. 
"Everybody will have to give a little more to fill the void," guard Carmelo Travieso said. "That's saying a Jot because Marcus does so much." 
Camby's heart and breathing never stopped and he was taken initially to Olean (N.Y.) General Hospital. He was flown Monday on an air ambulance to Worcester, where he was admitted to UMass Medical Center. 
.. 
----------~-----------------------------~ ----­
page 18 The Observer· SPORTS Wednesday, January 17, 1996 
... • VOlLEYBJ.\U.. 
Irish lose Harris, Pacific Regional 
By BETSY BAKER Sports Writer 
PALO ALTO, CALIF. 
The floor of the volleyball court at Oral Roberts University reads "Expect a Miracle." 
It was not a miracle but an impenetrable defense and over­powering offense that led to the nineteenth-ranked Golden Eagles defeat of the twelfth­ranked Notre Dame volleyball team in the semi-final match of the Pacific Regional. 
"Physically, we felt pretty good," Irish head coach Debbie Brown said of the loss. "But it didn't matter what we did. The ball just kept coming over the net." 
Oral Roberts came out on fire in game one jumping out to an 8-1 lead. Despite a valiant comeback effort, the Irish couldn't catch up, eventually losing the game 15-9. 
Game two brought much of the same for the Irish with a 15-11 loss. The upset of the Irish grew more eminent as the Golden Eagle once again jumped out to a lead and then was basically sealed when they lost their team leader, sopho­more outside hitter Angie Harris, to a knee injury with the score at 8-3. The Irish, who were relying on their mental toughness to keep them in the match, were caught off guard and shaken up by the injury to Harris and never recovered. 
Oral Roberts took game three, and the match, with a score of 15-4. 
"Angie getting injured affect­ed me mentally and that effect­ed the team," Brown said. "We were forced to put in a substi­tute who had never played that position. 
"Our execution was very good. There was nothing we could do to beat them." 
Much of the reason for this 
was that four of the Golden 
Eagles' players were in double 
figures in the kill column. 
Debora Dos Santos led Oral 
Roberts with sixteen kills and 
fifteen digs, while team leader 
Ksenija Kugler contributed 
fourteen kills. 

Twenty-five year old Kugler, 
a native of Croatia, is joined on 
the team by fellow Croatian 
Zvjezdana Sirola in addition to 

Jaimie Lee (4), Jen Rouse (9) and the Irish dropped their regional match to Oral Roberts in three sets, ending their NCAA tournament 
run. 

the six Brazilians who make up the Golden Eagles. 
The advantage of experience in both years and on the inter­national volleyball scene was an obvious contributor to the suc­cess of Oral Roberts. 
The Irish finished up the sea­son 27-7 overall and unde­feated in the Big East. Despite losing at the regional level for the third straight season, many positive points can be extracted from the 1995 season. 
Harris, who underwent surgery for torn ligaments in her knee over the Christmas break. led the team in kills with 470 total, an average of 4.273 kills per game. 
Behind Harris is fellow sopho­more sensation Jaimie Lee who finished with 426 kills. Junior co-captain Jenny Birkner led the Irish defensive effort with 346 digs. Sophomore setter Carey May led the offense the whole season for the with the exception of 3 games, compiling 1536 assists. 
Lone senior, Brett Hensel, fin­ished up her career with Irish with 35 kills and 962 digs. 
"Brett has often gone unno­
presents: 
THURSDAY COLLEGE NIGHT 
Featuring: 
TONY-TONY 
PLAYING YOUR FAVORITE HIP-HOP & BOOTIE CALL 
MUSIC TO DANCE TO! 
J 
• 
Both Dance Floors Open. 

• 
21 and over ID's required: cash bar 


... 
$3.00 Admission With Student ID $5.00 Admission Without Student ID 
Save $2.00 With This Ad Before 11:00 pm 
ticed, but she is one of the best all-around player this program has ever had," Brown said of the senior co-captain. 
Overall, the Irish are a young team that used this season to gain experience and build up a team unity that enhances their performance on and off the court. 
Coach Brown remembers the 1995 fondly and looks forward to the continued success of all but one of its players 
"I can't say enough about the players," Brown said. "They are the best team I have ever coached." 
Big East 
continued from page 24 

our offense," stated Gaither. 
All of Notre Dame's hard work and confidence will be tested when they face Connecticut Thuursday night. The reigning national champi­on Huskies will threaten Notre Dame's undefeated conference 
record on Thursday night at the JACC. 
A win over UConn would fi­nally earn the Irish a spot in the Associated Press Top 25, one of team's goals for this sea­son. More importantly, howev­er, a Notre Dame win would earn the Irish some much deserved respect throughout the conference and the nation. 
If you see sports happening, call The Observer at 1-4543. 
Welcome Faculty, Staff, and Students! Come to a FREE Information/Registration Meeting at NOTRE DAME! 
Date: Tuesday, January 23, 1996 Time: 12:15 to 12:45 and 5:15 to 5:45 Location: Lafortune Center, Foster Room 
Contact Jessica at 631-5829 for more information1 Register by January 24th! 
Bring Your Lunch! Payroll Deduction Available! Come see yourself 20 lbs. thinner in the magic mirror! 
------------------~----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
Wednesday, January 17, 1996 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 19 
SLAB OF CLAY It's 4 a.m. Gumby:s on TV. It reminds you of a simpler time. Saturday cartoons with your big brother. You suddenly miss him. So you call. He says, "You're my pony pal Pokey,:." There ain't a dry eye in the house. 
~--...~~ ~.._...--r-W~ 
\..,._.........-...._....... 
1-800-COLLECT ® 
Save The People You Call Up To 44%. 
• 

.. 
Gumby and Gumby Characters are Registered Trademarks of Prema Toy Co., Inc. All rights reserved. ©1996 Prema Toy Co., Inc. For long-distance calls. Savings based on a3-minute AT&T operator-dialed interstate call. 
-----~-----~---------~-----------------~~~~ 
page 20 The Observer • SPORTS Wednesday, January 17, 1996 
Step 
continued from page 24 
ers with run-of-the-mill names and blue-collar attitudes. All they had going for them was a common hatred of losing. 
This was Georgetown in front of a national audience. And the Irish didn't flinch. They just misfired. 
"These are games we need to win," senior Ryan Hoover said, "but you have to look at the positive things." 
There were a few of those. The Irish out rebounded the powerful Hoyas and laid out guard Victor Page on picks by Pat Garrity and Phil Hickey. 

Flat out, they out-brawned a very physical Georgetown team. 
"We're starting to compete on a physical level," Garrity bla­tantly understated. 
Strength is always a good way to combat speed. So is smarts. 
The more the freshmen and sophomores play with each other, the more comfortable they become. You can see the confidence grow from game to game. And now, with Marcus Young and Derek Manner back on the floor, the pieces are at least considering a tight fit. 
It's no secret that there's no Allen Iverson playing for Notre Dame. It's a team of role play­ers that weeks ago were not quite sure what those roles were. Freshman Doug Gottlieb was taking three-pointers and Garrity was afraid of the paint. Matt Gotsch's spider-dunk was the biggest threat to opponents on a fast break. 
Against Georgetown, Garrity built a house in the paint and Gottlieb only shot layups. And you can still count on a jam from Gotsch every once in a while. 
il1, 

D~w j!J w;] Juu,. 'Jt;, 'J'9!)~ 
The only thing left to do now is win a ball game. 
"We're so close," freshman Doug Gottlieb said. "It's just a matter of getting over the hump. We were a little bit un­sure of ourselves at the end of the game." 
Again, these are just intangi­bles that will come with time. Babies do have to learn to walk before they can hit a jumper over a guy with a 40-inch verti­cal leap. 
Even the fans realized the on­going transformation. Though some of the chants directed to­wards Iverson and center Othella Harrington were a bit crass, they had meaning and emotion behind them. 
"The crowd was exciting," the Irish coach said. "The thing to do now is get it to the point where we blow the lid off." 
MacLeod may have created a monster. People will start ex­pecting victory. But that's bet­ter than accepting defeat with a "they tried hard" disclaimer. 
"It's not how good we are now, it's how good we're going to be," MacLeod said. "I can't spend time making sense of something when it's crystal clear." 


for highly motivated individuals to establish a career in the bro­
kerage business. Qualified college graduates who enter our 4-12 month Securi­ties Training Program will prepare for Series 7 licensing and receive a wealth of experience working side-by-side with a successful stockbroker. 
OLDE's CoMPENSATION PACKAGE INCLUDES: 
• 
Attractive base salary & commission payouts 

• 
Comprehensive health plan & vacation time 


• 401(k) Retirement Plan Campus interviews will be held on February 8, 1996. If you would like to succeed in the dynamic brokerage industry, please see your Career Center for more information or contact: OLDE Discount Stockbrokers National Recruiting 
751 Griswold Street Detroit, MI 48226 
1-800-937-0606 
~OLDE 

McKinsey&Company 
THE NORTH AMERICAN BUSINESS ANALYST PROGRAM 
CASE STUDY INTERVIEW WORKSHOP 

We invite you to join us on Thursday, January 18 at 7:00p.m. in the University Club Main Lounge for a Case Study Interview Workshop. 
For most graduating seniors, the case study interview is unfamiliar. This workshop is designed to help you confidently approach the case study interview. At this workshop, McKinsey consultants will: 
• 
Explain exactly what to expect in the McKinsey interview 

• 
Discuss various types of cases used in interviews 

• 
Allow you to role-play case interviews 

• 
Answer any questions you may have. 


McKinsey a Company, Inc. will begin the 1996 Business Analyst Program interview process for University of
.. 
Notre Dame seniors in January 1996. For further information, please call Kathleen Hornstein at 312/551-3666 
or contact the Placement Center. Casual attire, please. 

page 22 The Observer • SPORTS Wednesday, January 17, 1996 
• HOCKEY 
Inconsistency plagues lackluster holiday performance 
By MIKE DAY 
Sports Writer 
Santa was not especially kind to the Notre Dame hockey team over the Christmas holidays. In fact, he was downright heart­less. 
The Irish headed into the break playing their best hockey 
----~UNDS UNLIMI~:,~~ PRODUCTIONS 

SOUTH BEND RECORD Et CD 
/MUSIC COLLECTIBLES FROM THE I 50's • 60's • 70's • 80's • 90's / ' 
/;LPs • COs • 45s • 12" singles • imports • posters • maga­'/_ zines • books • concert photos • videos • t-shirts • cassettes • ./ pins • patches • and much more! 
of the season, winning four of their final six games prior to a 19 day layoff. However, with just one victory in their last six games, the break couldn't have ended sooner for the Irish. 
"We played well at times, but we were not at all consistent," said Irish coach Dave Poulin. 

The Observer/Brent Tadsen Freshman Brian Urick has been one of the few bright spots for the Notre Dame hockey team which now has just one win in its last six games. 
..... 
!Admission FREE!
l' with this ad 

COLLECTOR'S SHOW Sunday, January 21 
10:00 a.m. 5:00 p.m. 
At the Holiday Inn (University) 515 Dixieway N., US 31-33 North 
BUY • SELL • TRADE 
"Both weekends we played well on Friday and became compla­cent on Saturday. That is a habit we cannot afford to get into." 
The low point of the lacklus­ter two week stretch came Saturday night when Miami of Ohio stomped the Irish 6-3 on the heels of tying Notre Dame 2-2 on Friday evening. 
The Irish have struggled to find the back of the net, and that was again the case on Saturday. Defenseman Brian McCarthy, left wing Steve Noble, and defenseman Jeremy Coe recorded one goal apiece, but that was all the offense Notre Dame could muster against Redskin goaltender Kevin Deschambeault. 
On the other side of the coin, Notre Dame goaltender Wade Salzman was solid between the 
Please Recycle The Dbseruer 
Don't Procrastinate! l1lQ,W is the time to guaran­tee the lowest rates and best hotel selection for Spring Break '96. This is your last chance to reserve your spot. 
Tours has complete 

ckages to South Padre 
Cancun, and Mardi Gras. 
liiWi
For~ info. 
1-800-838-8203 

pipes in both games, but the struggling Irish offense pro­vided little support behind him. 
"We've had plenty of opportu­nities, but we just haven't been able to convert," said Poulin. "The shots have been there, but we've faced some tough goal­tending. We've made the last two goalies we've played Player of the Week." 
The previous weekend against Ohio State (January 5­
6) followed a similar pattern. The Irish played well in a 2-2 tie on Friday, but then turned around and floundered in a 5-2 loss to the Buckeyes on Saturday. 
"We've had problems scoring for much of the season," said Notre Dame senior captain Brett Bruininks. "The fresh­men (Brian Urick, Aniket 
CH~LENGE 
'·-..___
•

FITNESS SCHEDULE SPRING, 1996 
JQXCE CE~IER CLASSES 
4:00.5:00 STEP Gym I M/W $23 
4:10.5:10 HI Intensity Gym l M/W $18 3 5:20-6:20 STEP Gym I M/W $23 ~ 5:20-6:10 Fin & Tone Gym l M/W $18 5 ~:15·5:15 Cardia Combo Gym I T/Th SIS h ~:15·5:15 Hi Intensity Gym 2 T/Th $18 7 ~:30·6:30 STEP Gym I T/Th $23 
~:.10·6:30 Lo Impart Gym 2 f/Th SIS 
RQCK~E CLASSES 
12:15-12:45 STEP 301 "1/W/F $25 10 ~:00-5:00 STEP 301 '.1/W/F $35 II 5:20-6:20 STEP JOI ~1/W $23 
12 9:00·10:00 Cardio Combo 301 M/W $18 13 6:30·7:15 am STEP 301 TITh $23 14 12:15-12:45 STEP 301 T/Th $23 IS 4:15·5:15 STEP 301 T/Th $23 16 5:30-6:30 STEP 301 T/Th $23 17 9:00.10:00 STEP· 301 T/Th $23 
18 5:30-6:30 STEP 301 F $12 
19 4:00.5:00 Double STEP 301 Su $12 20 5:15-5:45 All Abs 301 Su $12 21 6:00-7:00 Hi Intensity 301 Su $12 
RQI,[S CLASSES 22 12:15-12:45 Aquarise M/Wt·· $18 23 6:45-7:45 Aquacise T/Th $18 
Make the commitment to a physically active 1996 by joining a Challenge U fitness class. Regular physical activity can help you look good and feel even better! Sign· ups begin THURSDAY, JANUARY /8, 7:30am at the RecSports office located in the Joyce Center. Cla~~es will begin Monday, January 22. Class minimum of twelve participants. **Schedule is tentative. Take the lime to WORK IN your WORKOUT• 
IRISH WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
... to break the Notre Dame women's basketball attendance record! 
B«;Cad.P~ 
NOTRE DAME 
----vs.----­
:h~ !Vaiiood e~ 
CONNECTICUT 
This Thursday 
7 P.M. 
Dhadphale, Benoit Cotnoir) have played great. but the rest of the guys need to step it up for us to become a good offen­sive team." 
The only bright spot for the Irish was a stunning 3-2 upset of Wisconsin on December 28 in Milwaukee. Goaltender Matt Eisler played one of his strongest games, bafning one of the nation's top teams in front of their home crowd of 14,162. 
"We played really well against Wisconsin, and it showed," said Poulin. "We weren't able to play with the same consistency against Miami. With just 13 games left, we are fe1~1ing a sense of imme­diacy to reach that level of con­sistency." 
Indeed, time is beginning to run out on the Irish. 

Wednesday, January 17, 1996 
Irish 
continued from page 24 
chip away from the outside. 
"Teams that have used a zone defense against Georgetown have had more success. because if they get rolling, you don't have enough timeouts to stop them," stated Irish head coach John MacLeod. 
"I thought that our players responded well (to playing zone), and it helped us stay close until the end." 
However, despite some initial frustration, the Hoya sharp­shooters began to zero in dur­ing the second half, providing clutch three pointers when the Irish appeared poised to make a final run. 
The most critical came with seven minutes to go, after Notre 
Play Stronger!
•75 Days 
~---~--~----~­
Dame senior Ryan Hoover fol­lowed a three-pointer with a steal and a layup to cut the gap to two points. 
With the partisan crowd on its feet for the first time all night, Georgetown's Jerry Nichols came down and calmly drained a 23-footer to stabilize the Hoyas. One possession later, Hoya Allen Iverson knocked down a three of his own to put Georgetown com­fortably in front. 
Iverson, whose lightning­quick moves were somewhat neutralized by Notre Dame's zone, finished with 26 points, including four three-pointers, while Nichols had 12 and a third guard, Victor Page, con­tributed 14. 
"The last thing we practiced before the game was our zone shells," said Hoya head coach 
The Observer • SPORTS 

John Thompson. "Zone is not going to bother us with Victor, Allen, and Jerry on the perime­ter." 
The Irish perimeter people were also up to the task, as Hoover turned in his best all­around performance of the sea­son, going for 26 points and eight rebounds to compliment Gottlieb in the backcourt. Sophomore forward Pat Garrity had 12 points and nine boards for the Irish. 
• * * 

Notre Dame went 3-4 over the holidays, beating Xavier, San Diego, and Loyola Marymount while losing to UCLA at home and conference foes Villanova, Boston College, and Pittsburgh on the road. 
The Irish will have to wait until Saturday, when they host Rutgers at 2:00, to try and improve on their 0-6 confer­ence mark. 
* * * 

Monday's game with the Hoyas was very physical, espe­cially for Hoya guard Victor Page, who got clobbered twice by Notre Dame screens while pressuring the ball in the back­court. 
Pat Garrity set the first screen for the Irish, after which Page had to be helped off the floor after his head _collided with Garrity's chin. Freshman Phil Hickey did the honors the sec­ond time. 
Arms and legs also flew late in the game, when Hoya Boubacar Aw fell on and seemed to hold down Notre Dame's Ryan Hoover, the best Irish three point shooter, 
•4 Golf Fitness/Ciin....."'-~··"·"· 
•4 free tanningk~ess.·
Caii254-D460+·:z·· 
Taekwondo ISelf Defense Classes! 
Classes forming NOW 
Call 254-0460 


* * * "Anyone that has grown up in 
Perhaps even more than Catholic education knows that Boston College, Georgetown is playing Notre Dame has special seen as a bastion of Catholic significance," he said. education on a plane with Notre "The golden dome has Dame, a significance that was always meant something to not lost on John Thompson. me." 
Sullllller Service Projects 
• Eight weeks of volunteer 
service with a disadvantaged population 
• Sponsored by a Notre Dame 
) 

Alumni Club 
• Students receive a $1500.00 Scholarship 
• Applications are available in December and January at the 
Center for Social Concerns 
• Watch for further information 
• Information Sessions: Jan. 18~ 6:00-6:30pm 
... 
• 
1 
l 
Wednesday, January 17, 1996 The Observer • TODAY page 23 
-
FOUR FOOD GROUPS OF THE APOCALYPSE DAVE KELLEIT YOUR HOROSCOPE JEANE DIXON 
\,JELL. C...,.n1I Fu'"'"'1 ~co...,Noz.E liiE J:o,,..,.._,c.AN'S.-uouo..­
Lot<t.,&~t El<f"'n ~EAL. 
MISTER BOFFO 
, •• llo.LoH~ V.h-M TMT1 1.\•,.'a.._ ~'" 13.:: W~\I.ING, Or. t>. '35'-P~>or..E ~~~-~ Netl.­VJtTI'I f'xrrt~D"TU .AI4() A fV._._ 
~u.'1!?! ~ou'~E (:aOM"" 'STIC.~ WWM \T!~ 
~ 'R~.....~!?'! 
/ 

JOE MARTIN 

SCOTT ADAMS 
~----------------------~ur------------------------­
2 ~ 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY! IN THE You could change your mind tomor NEXT YEAR OF YOUR LIFE: row. Cenain disagreements are actu­Seize the opportunity to realize a ally creative, leading to improved long-cherished dream. Your insight working conditions. into a complicated situation is extra­VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): The ordinary. A recurring problem will area of psychic or spiritual investi · be solved in early spring. Free your­gation may be discussed today. G~1 self of a burden you no longer have in touch with those at a distance to carry. Take a calculated risk in Someone behind the scenes provide' romance. Tender moments will revi­important information. talize your love life in August. LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): YoUI Long-distance travel is likely once offbeat sense of humor works in fall gets underway. Visit someone your favor. channing new busine" who is often in your thoughts. Build associates. Say "yes" to an unex­on your earlier rapport. pected invitation. Indulge an urge to CELEBRITIES BORN ON add to your domestic comforts. THIS DAY: patriot Benjamin SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21) Franklin. boxing legend Muhammad Combing originality with practicali­Ali, puppeteer Shari Lewis, actress ty will move you close to a goal Betty White. You gain the support of a special ARIES (March 21-April 19): friend or group. Certain social plan' Take the time you need to do things could be postponed due to wor~ right. Career progress comes when obligations. you implement state-of-the-art SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec methods. Your instincts are excel­21): If tempted to act on impulse lent and will steer you in the right think about the possible repercus· direction. Romance deepens. sions. Listen to your conscience. Do TAURUS (April 20-May 20): not give credence to rumors. Con­Put pressure on someone who is in a fronting someone who has alway' position to back a pet project. been loyal would be a mistake. Friends could provide valuable CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan inside information. Find tangible 19): Not a good day to take on mort· ways to repay them. Real estate than you can comfortably handle transactions are best postponed. Higher-ups are evaluating your per GEMINI (May 21-June 20): An fonnance. Improving your propen~ older person may question your loy­increases its value. Avoid rushin~ alty. Try not to get upset. Feeling romance. guilty about the past will hamper AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18) progress. Look ahead with confi­A difficult task will require concen dence. Rearrange your work sched­tration. A conversation with an ule to accommodate someone who intellectual goes well; you discove1 is very busy. shared interests. Talking with ;, CANCER (June 21-July 22): good friend will banish certair Professional and private desires may doubts. Keep spending within rea conflict today. Watch out for petty son if you go out tonight. arguments. Overlooking certain PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Br details could trip you up. Stay alert! there for a child who seeks yoUt Romance and marriage are very advice. Your encouragement work' much on your mind. wonders! Help a friend who is goin~ LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): A deci­through a stressful experience sion may be totally up in the air Review your habits. then plan an now. Avoid issuing ultimatums. exercise regimen that will be fun.  
• OF INTEREST In honor of Martin Luther King Jr. Day, the Saint Mary's College of Multicultural Affairs presents a lun· cheon entitled "Reflections on Martin Luther King, Jr., his Life and Legacy" at 12:15 p.m. today in the North Wedge room in the dining hall. Also, on Friday, Dr. Erskine Peters, University of Notre Dame English pro· fessor, will prt>sent a lecture entitled "Retlectlons on Martin Luther King, Jr.: a Historical Context" at 4 p.m. in the Stapleton Lounge.  
•MENU Notre Dame Call631·0111 for menu information Saint Mary's Caneloni Florentini Three Cheese Omlet Sweet and Sour Pork Mixed Vegetables  
Wanted: Reporters, photographers and editors. Join The Observer staff.  

-
• 

-
IF YOU PLAN 10 RE.M.tUN IN 1\-\E C0/1'\PUIEI\ BUSINE~S YOU'D BEJTER BUNDLE. i~E "DOGBERT ;1.000" OPEI\1\TlNG SYSIE.M WITH E.VE.RY 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 32 Old war story 33Campaign
1 "The Fall" 
quest

author 35 Anomalous
6 Part of an eagle's flight 
38 Bloke 11 Logician's 
39 Bonhomme signoff 
Richard captain 
40 Water color 

event 41 Bad--. Mich. 15 Cut back 42 Juice, so to 16 Half of dos speak 11 Foolish reply 43 Kind of fund 19 Like Mahler's 44 Bid-and-asked, 
Symphony No. 4 on Wall Street 20 Speaks softly 46 Andean capital 21 Tame 47 Favorite place 23 Kind of ray 49 Nigerian port 25 Military caps 52 Lowers 26 Singer Shirley 54 Jazz's Charles 30 Topps rival Mingus, e.g. 
14 Alamogordo 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
0 

~ OTHERWI5E I AFTER I ~ 001"\lNA,TE THE MARKET ~ YOU'LL BE LA':>T ON M.Y ~ LIST TO RECEIVE NELJ 
8 PRODUC.T5! 
~ 

58 Pursuit of satori 59 Acme 
62 "Evil Woman" rock grp. 
63 Angler's basket 
64 Possibly clashing clothing pattern 
65 Actor Cariou 
66 Long time 67 Suit material 
DOWN 
1 Send packing 2 Tiny bit 3 Computer list 4 The Beatles' 
"Back in the 
" 

5 Arose (from) 6 Reject 7 Watch station? aDeclasse 9 Burden 
10 Colonial wigs 11 Fair exchange 12The blahs 13Venetian 
magistrates 

45Young--53 Parched 
29 Formed a lap 31 Orchestra 
leader Baxter 331, e.g. 341 36 Neatnik's bane 37 Table material 39 Tiny bit 40 S.A.Iand 42 Strength 43 Even matches 
(tots) 46 Commander 47 Eye shade 48 White poplar 50 More proficient 51 Foes of Caesar 
55 Latin "that" 56 Luminary 57 Math branch 60 Shell-game item &1 Block 
attachment 

Get answers to any three clues by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420­5656 (75¢ each minute). 

22 It's fuII of hard-to-spell 
words 24 Seekiflg 26 N. Y.C. race 
track, informally 
"Sisters" role 
z 
~ -~ 
! 
~ 
.~ 
... 
" .! 
·;; 
:J 
YOU REMIND ME OF 50ME.BOOY ... 
1.T'5 THE. GLA55E5, 
ISN'T IT? 
) 


~------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
-
SPORTS 
page 24 Wednesday, January 17, 1996 
Hanging with the Hoyas 

Georgetown 
edges scrappy 
Irish by five 
By TIM SEYMOUR Associate Sports Editor 

It was a big night at the Joyce Center on Monday. The Big East, ESPN's Big Monday, and a big name opponent were all in town as Notre
-Dame looked to finally win the big one, its inaugural confer­ence victory. After a 74-69 Georgetown win that dropped the Irish to 0-6 in the Big East, that wait will continue, but Notre Dame showed that it has taken some steps in the right direction over Christmas break. Big Steps. In a game that saw 22 lead changes, the Irish scrapped with the No. 5 Hoyas tooth and nail throughout, exhibit­ing a resiliency that may have been lacking earlier in the season. "We've played with good teams like UConn and UCLA for six or seven minutes and then folded," said freshman point guard Doug Gottlieb,
• 
who turned in a solid 37 minute effort that included nine assists, many of them spectacular. "(Late in the first halO I was excited that we were staying with them." 
Packed uncharacteristically in a zone defense, the Irish successfully stifled Georgetown's high octane attack, forcing the Hoyas to 
see IRISH I page 21 


Irish remain perfect in Big East 

-
Confidence keys 6-1 mark over christmas break 
TODD FITZPATRICK 
Sports Writer 

While most Notre Dame stu­dents spent their vacations re­laxing, members of the wom­en's basketball team spent their Christmas breaks beating up on Big East opponents. 
Since splitting their first two games of the break, the Irish have won five straight contests to raise their Big East confer­ence record to a perfect 6-0. The Irish began the new year 
.. with an overtime win against Seton Hall. Over the next three games, the red hot Irish de­feated St. John's, Boston College, and Syracuse by an av­
-
erage of 28 points. This week­end, Notre Dame continued their winning ways by beating Providence 90-80. 
Shooting percentage has con­tributed, possibly more than any other statistic, to the team's great success thus far. Notre Dame has shot better than its opponents in all four­teen games. The Irish are shooting an outstanding 51.7 percent from the field. In the first half against Michigan State, Notre Dame shot an amazing 72 percent from the field. 
Senior Stacy Fields attributes the Irish winning streak to in­creased team confidence. 
"We're finally starting to gel as a team. Confidence is a big factor. Instead of going into games with the attitude that we have to beat the other team, we are going into games with the 
Men's Basketball 
vs. Rutgers January 20, 2:00 p.m. 
Women's Basketball 
vs. Connecticut January 18,j 7 p.m. 
Fencing 
Northwestern Open January 19-21 
attitude that they have to beat us," commented Fields. 
Fields has certainly made great contributions lately to the Irish effort. She scored a sea­son-high seventeen points against Providence on Sunday. Fields also added seven re­bounds, four assists, and two steals during the Irish victory. 
Katryna Gaither has made impressive contributions of her own, garnering the Big East co­player of the week honors for the second week in a row. Gaither averaged 28 points and 
12.5 rebounds, while shooting a phenomenal 70.2 percent from the field. 
"We have just built on our past losses. We viewed them as part of the learning proces, and used the experiences to get bet­ter. We have been working hard on both our defense and 
see BIG EAST I page 18 
Hockey 
vs. UICJanuary 19,7 p.m. 
SMC Sports 
January 17 Basketball at Chicago January 20 Swimming at Hillsdale 

• Villanova trounces Irish basketball 
see page 14 
• JOCK STRIP 
Notre Dame takes step in the right direction 
John MacLeod is frustrated. Any man with a pulse would be. 
It was well-known and well­document­ed going in to this season that N o t r e D a m e would have problems in its inaugur­al season in Mike Norbut the Big Sports Editor East. But only a man with skin the thick­ness of a brick wall could shrug off the pain of an 0-6 start in the new conference. 

''I'm frustrated, but I'm not discouraged," the Notre Dame coach said. "You don't get any­thing accomplished by turning your back. We're making strides and getting better." 
Monday's 74-69 loss at the hands of fifth-ranked Georgetown was evidence that the Irish can, given certain cir­cumstances, compete with anyone in the Big East. 

The Hoyas had it all as they strutted out on the new floor at the Joyce Center. Shiny Air Jordans. Flashy Nike uniforms. Names that were both awe in­spiring and impossible to pro­nounce. 
On the,other side were play-
see STEP I page 20 

The Observer/Brent Tadsen Molly Peirick is currently the fifth leading scorer on the women's bas­ketball team which is now 6-0 in the Big East. 
• Hockey drops five oflast six 
see page 22 

• Volleyball bows out ofNCAAs 
see page 18 





