
Monday, October 7, 1996 • Vol. XXX No. 31 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Viewer poll gives debate advantage to Clinton 
By JOHN KING Associated Press Writer 
IIAHTFOHI>. Conn. 

l'n~sident Clinton and Bob llole rlaslwd vigorously ovnr tax1~s. trustworthiness and SJH~nding prioritins Sunday night in a prinw-linw d!dlate critical to tlw HPpublican chal­lnngl~r·s hopns for a historic Ortolwr comeback. 
"I think the best thing going for Bob I>oiP is that Bob Dole kenps his word," the former Kansas senator said near thn closn of tlw 90-minute debate, sugg~~sting Clinton could not be trustnd to kn1~p his eleclion­ynar prornisns. 
Clinton forclll'ully disagreed, assPrting that he had kept most of his 1992 campaign promises, from steering the economy out of recession to cutting the deficit in half. "It is not midnight in America, sena­tm·: We are bettnr off than we wern four years ago," the president said in making his casn for a second term. 
The Democratic incumbent and his Hepublican challenger stood just a few feet apart on a red-carpeted stage, challeng­ing each other again and again in a showdown that ushered in tlw final month of the White llousn campaign. 
Clinton took credit for an economy that had created morn than 10 million jobs, dnclining crime rates and thin­ner welfare rolls -and for vntoing the Dole-backed Hepublican budgets he assert­ed would have cut $270 billion from Medicare and another $30 billion from education. 
Looking ahead, Clinton said his $100 billion in tax credits targeted to making college more affordable were far more responsible than Dole's "$550 billion tax scheme." 
"We have the right approach for the future," Clinton said. 
Dole vehemently protested Clinton's characterization of the GOP budget, accusing the president of running a cam­paign designed to scare elderly Americans. 
"I am trying to save your Medicare, just as I rescued Soeial Security," Dole said. 
He noted that Medicare spending increased in the 
see DEBATE I page 4 
• NEWS ANALYSIS 
Missed opportunities leave Dole finishing second 
By COLLEEN PATRICK 
News Writer 
Contrary to previous Presidential Debates, Presidential Nominees Bob Dole and incumbent Bill Clinton failed to use last night's debates as an opportu· nity to focus on issues of char­acter, according to members of the Political Science depart­ment at Saint Mary's Collego. 
Last ·night, members of the department gathered to watch and discuss the first of the '96 debates. Throughout the 90­rninute dBbate, analysts felt that Dole failed to use oppor­tunities to boost support In the polls, while Clinton used Dole's weaknesses to comple­ment his effective oratorieal skllls. 
"The debates wHre not good for Dole," said Associate Professor of Politieal Schmo1 Patrick Pierce. "Bill Clinton acted presidential. and Bob Dole did not do the things he 
see ANALYSIS I page 4 

A 'rite' of passage 
F
riday night, junior nursing majors par­ticipated in the first annual Nursing Dedication Ceremony at Saint Mary's College. The dedication, held in the Church of Loretto, was highlighted by prayers and ret1ections, replacing the cap­ping ceremony used in previous years. 

Events celebrate right to life 
By I I EATHER COCKS 
AISori.ltc News Editor 
Notn~ I>anw Hight to Life has organizPd a week of activities in honor of Hespect Life Week, which eommiHlcod yestorday and ends on October 13. 
"We want to tmsure that pen­ph~ on this campus are informed on the issues," stated Catriona Wilki1\, a vir.e-president of Hight to Life. "We want people to n~speet life of all kinds." 
Tlw week's events began yes­terday with a Life Chain along Ironwood Drive. Wilkie explainml that the partieipants gathered along a sizeable stretch of road wielding "peace­ful signs that let the community know there is an active local pro-lifi\ faetion." 
Wilkie was pleased with the turnout, which included stu­dents from both Notre Dame and Saint Mary's, as well as an impressive number of local resi­dents. 
The Walsh Hall chapel will host three guest speakers this week in presentations that will target what Wilkie cited as the key foeal points of Hespect Life Week: Capital punishment, euthanasia, and abortion. Father Joe Hoss begins the "Living Out the Gospel of Life" series on Tuesday, Octobnr 8, by sharing his experiences working with death row inmates. 
On Thursday, Dr. David Young, a Notre Dame alumnus, presents his stories of working with dying patients in a speech entitled "A Prayer for the Dying." 
The final speaker will be Liz Cenedella, a senior at Notre Dame who was forced to make a decision about abortion and is currently raising her child while studying. Entitled "A Prayer for the Unborn," Cenedella will 
share her story on Sunday, October 13. 
The Voices of Faith Gospel Choir, the Folk Choir, and the Coro Primavera will perform at the respective presentations. 
Other highlights of the week are two prayer services. "We hope to provide an environment in which students can come together and pray for life," said Wilkie. 
The first is a Pro-Life rosary at the Grotto, at 6:45 p.m. tonight. On Wednesday, there will be a Litany for Life vigil at the Fieldhouse Mall at 7 p.m. 
Wilkie also encouraged stu­dents to visit the Cemetery for the Innocents, which will be erected between Notre Dame Stadium and the Hesburgh Library. The lawn will be filled with 4,400 crosses to commem­orate the number of abortions performed every day in the United States. 
CCE hosts annual A&L career fair 
... 

By KRISTEN BOGNER News Writer 
The annual Fall Arts and Lettnrs Career Day will be held on Tuesday, October 8, from 11 a.m. to 4 p.m. at the Center for Continuing Education. The fair will provide students with specific infor­mation on the application of particular degrees and skill areas in various industries. 
Over thirty-three career areas will be repre­sented, including those in advertising, public relations, sales and marketing, consulting, art and graphic design, retail, social service, the Alliance for Catholic Education, and the legal and paralegal industrins. Representatives from many fields will be available to answer ques­tions. 
Various firms will also conduct workshops at 
I the fair. Both Anderson Consulting and Boston Consulting will make presentations on the con­sulting industry. U-Line, Inc. will conduct a workshop on marketing oneself to small and 
mid-size firms. Sears Hoebuck will have presen­tations on careers in retail management and Junior Achievement will also hold a workshop on the non-profit and social serviee environ­ment. 
Those who plan to attend graduate school may want to attend the fair, as there will be a workshop given by Kaplan Educational Services on computer adaptive testing applicable for tests such as the GMAT and the GHE. 
J 


Respect Life Week 
Monday, Oct. 7 6:45p.m. 
Pro-Life Rosary at the Grotto 
Thesday, Oct. 8 7:00p.m. 

** "Living out the Gospel of Life" Father Joe Ross speaks about working on death 
row 
Wednesday, Oct. 9 

7:00p.m. 

Litany for Life Candellight vigil at Fieldhouse Mall 
Thursday, Oct. 10 7:00p.m. 

** "A Prayer for the Dying" Dr. David Young (NO '77) speaks on working with the dying 
Sunday, Oct. 13 7:00p.m. 

** "A Prayer for the Unborn" NO senior Liz Cenedella speaks on her decision not to have an abonion 
** All presentations will be held in the Walsh Hall Chapel!~ 
The Observer/Sue O'Kain 

r 
page 2 The Observer • INSIDE Monday, October 7, 1996 
• INSIDE COLUMN 
Of for111als 
and foot 




fetishes 

Not but....  to  complain,  Laura Petelle  
On  behalf  of  my  News Copy Editor  
friend-we-'ll call her  
Mary-! am  forced to  

register a complaint about bad dates. There are a preponderance of clueless young men, who seem to be drawn to Notre Dame like moths to a flame. 
Being a freshman like myself, Mary doesn't know a whole lot of guys yet. Or at least, she doesn't know a whole lot of normal ones­you know what they say about why men are like parking spots. So, fool that she was, Mary innocently allowed herself to be set up by one of her friends. 
Friday arrived, and with it came a frenzy of showering and nerves. Mary was ready to go, looked great, had her gift for the young man, and was ready for him to arrive. He was right on time, just like a good date should be, and he looked very nice. After taking the requisite prom-type pictures, he and Mary went party-hopping for a while until it was time to get on the bus. Keep in mind that this ND boy does not drink. 
On the bus ride he was silent. Upon arrival at Covaleski Stadium, he suggested that they sit down. Mary agreed, and the two of them sat and started to talk. 
He had seemed like a rather silent boy, but once he started talking, he couldn't stop. Mary suggested that he might like to dance.... No, her date told her, he didn;.t dance. So she just sat there, listening to him talk. 
Mary began to get a little annoyed that her companion wouldn't let her get a single word in edgewise-whenever she began a story, he would wait about fifteen seconds before cut­ting her off impatiently to resume his own exceptionally exciting life story. She realized after about half an hour of this that her date wasn't listening to any of her responses any­way, and began to respond with sarcastic comments-without the boy ever cluing in. 
He told Mary all about. every girl he's ever met, and then began to pull out pictures of the ones he'd dated, with comments along the lines of, "Isn't she hot?" Even that, though totally impolite, wasn't so bad. 
There were also the lectures-on why she should do her homework, not cut calculus, and on the "jazz idiom." He spoke like a self proclaimed authority on any and every sub­ject, even when it was obvious to Mary, who is not a dimwit, that it was all bull. But even that wasn't so bad-it was the shoes that really got to Mary. 
Mary likes shoes. Mary owns a lot of shoes. But Mary is no match for her date. The boy owns, by Mary's count, over thirty pairs, and proceeded to tell Mary all about every pair of shoes he owns-what they look like, where he bought them, what they cost, and where he stores them in his room. 
And then he told her again-just in case she missed it the first time. Needless to say, Mary and her companion went home on the first bus. 
In the post-dance pow-wows, the question came up time and time again: "Why didn't you ditch him, Mary?" 
"He had my keys." 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
• TooAv's STAFF 
News Production Saskia Sidenfaden Heather Cocks Matt Loughran Tara Grieshop 
Sports Accent Brian Fromeau Rachel Torres 
Lab Tech Graphics 


Pope asks for 'spiritual solidarity' before surgery 
----Square. 1-Iis last operation was a hipAppendicitiS replacement in April1994. 
The pontiff is staying in a private 10th­Pope John Paul II floor suite that includes a tiny chapel dedi­
is set to undergo

surgeryforchronic cated to the Black Madonna of 
appendicitis. Czestochowa, the Virgin Mary icon dear to Roman Catholics in Poland. John Paul is Polish. In his last Vatican appearance before entering the hospital, John Paul brought 16 , people a step closer to sainthood and asked ' the faithful to pray for him. The 2 1/2-hour ceremony put his stamina to the test. "I ask you to accompany me with your prayers," the pontiff told the crowd that filled sun-bathed square. "I send warm greetings to those in the hospital or in nursing homes, knowing that I can count on their spiritual solidarity." When the pope finished, a man near the altar cried out: "Long life to the pope!" Wearing emerald green vestments, John Paul appeared tired and at times his voice wavered during the ceremony of beatifica­tion, the final step before consideration for sainthood. The pope's left hand quivered noticeably Large intestine -an affliction that has led to widespread 
speculation he could be suffering from a Removing an inflamed appendix more serious illness, such as Parkinson's prevents it from bursting and disease.
releasing infective material into
the abdominal cavity. The pontiff gave communion to dozens It will be the pope's sixth operation at the L-----------:-:=-=-----:-:____j of people who approached the flower­APffoniaCowan ringed altar. Many people came to wish the 
pope a speedy recovery. 

Bride literally 'takes the plunge' 
DREXEL, Mo. 
Talk about taking the plunge. The bride wore white satin, a striped leather helmet and black polyester jump suit. Terri Essex said she'd always wanted to try skydiv­ing, but never got around to it until her wedding day, when she leapt from a plane 10,000 feet above her wed­ding party. "It's like g~ving away the bride just by push­ing her out the airplane door," said instructor Pat Ensign, who accompanied the bride on her first dive. ''I'm more nervous about her coming down than I am about getting married," said groom Stephen Foster, on terra firma, squinting into the sky. The couple had planned a Las Vegas wedding, but when they couldn't arrange time for the trip, the bride's father suggested combining their nuptials with his annual fly-in barbecue. He even gave the bride away. Sort of. "When he opened the door and my legs dangled down, I said to my dad, 'I can't. I can't,"' Essex said. But she jumped. Minutes later, she was on the ground, her shaking hands peeling away the jumpsuit to reveal her wedding gown. 
'First Wives' still first at box office 
LOS ANGELES 
"The First Wives Club" was No. 1 at the box office for the third straight weekend, earning an estimated $11.1 million, industry sources said Sunday. The comedy about ex-wives getting even with their former hus­bands -starring Bette Midler, Diane Keaton and Goldie Hawn -topped Steven Seagal's new film, "Glimmer Man," which took in $7.6 million. Tom Hanks' first effort as writer and director, "That Thing You Do!" debuted in third place with $6.6 million. The movie, which also features Hanks on screen, chronicles the rise of a 1964 rock band to teen worship. Another new movie, "D3: The Mighty Ducks," placed fourth with $6.5 million. "Independence Day," in its 14th week, dropped to 10th place. The sci-fi thriller has earned $295 million since its debut. 
• NATIONAL WEATHER 

The AccuWeather®forecast for noon, Monday, Oct. 7. 

HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY VIa Auoclated Preu 
Katie Kroener Sue O'Kain 

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday ~,~,~~~-~~ ~ 
Showers T-storms Rain Fl~r;ies S~o·:; Ice Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy
except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights arc reserved. Via Associated Press GraphicsNel 
Monday, October 7, I 996 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
• ELECTION '96 

Registration deadline arrives, informational lectures continue 
Observer Staff Reports 
Today is the last day to register to vote in tho l 1)96 elections. 
Hngistration can be done between 8 a.m. and 5:30 p.m. at tlw voter registration office in thn County-City Building located at .lnfferson Boulevard and Lafayette Street, in downtown South Bend. 
It is also possible to mail in a voter registra­tion application. Applications and informa­tion may Lw obtained at libraries and auto licnnsn branches. To be valid, an apllication must bn postmarked no later than today. 
lntc~rnational issues will bn the focus of the fifth installmnnt of a weekly lecture series at Notre~ Dame, to be held this afternoon in the auditorium !'or the Center for Continuing 
l~ducation. 
Tlw serins, "The 1996 Election and the Common Good," allows Notre Dame faculty nwmbnrs to prnsnnt thnir ideas on all facets of upcoming elections. 
Professors Alan Dowty, Martha Merritt and l'ntnr Walshc1, all of thn department of govern­nwnt and international studies, will spnak at tlw nvnnt. 
The presentation, beginning at 4 p.m., will precnde a gnrwral discussion session. Both events are free and open to the public. 
Thn final installmnnt will be Oct. 14, from 4 to 5 p.m. Future speakers will be announced as they are dntnrmined. 
Among the campus organizations sponsoring the series arn the Cnnter for Social Concerns and tho Cnnter for Continuing Education. 
"Whiln many polls and pundits say Americans don't earn about international issues as much as thny care about domestic ones. it is dear wn live in a global society, shape and arn shapml by it, and have responsi­bilities to it," said Kathleen Maas Weigert, an associate dirc~ctor or the esc and organizer of tlw seric~s. 
"We nned to be better educated about (inter­national issues)." 
• CORRECTION 
The article on Student Senate's meeting in last Thursday's edition should have stated that Brendan Kelly, student government chief of stall'. announeed the formation of' a eommlttee to pxamine the possibility of a permanent spot for a student on the Faculty Senate. 
Tho at·tiele on the Residenee Hall i\ssodation in last Thursday's edition should havo stated that Saint Mary's students must ehPC~k out of their dorms for fall break by noon on Sunday, Oct. 20. 
11w Observer regrets the errors. 

College welcomes potential students 
By MARY BETH ELLIS News Writer 
Wearing letter jackets heavy with high school identity, they enter Carroll Auditorium in a state of nervous confusion, carefully painted nails elenched around tiny plastic cups of orange punch. They're from Green Bay, from Iowa, from just outside Chicago. They are still a prom and a graduation away from this place. 
They are what each Saint Mary's woman once was: A prospective student. 
Yesterday's annual Fall Day on the Campus brought them here, called them away from cheerleading practice and student council meet­ings to stop by Saint Mary's storefront as they windowshop for a college. 
The day began at 8:30 a.m. with registration and continental breakfast in Le Mans Hall. Each prospective student then received a folder con­taining their first official Saint Mary's informa­tion. The packets inducted a course catalogue, viewbooks, a campus map, financial aid infor­mation, the day's schedule... and a free SMC pen. 
Following breakfast, President Hickey and Admission Director Mary Pat Nolan welcomed the prospective students and their parents. Nolan, in a letter to the students, voiced her hope that "by the day's end you will begin to see yourself as a Saint Mary's woman." An admis­sions presentation in ()'Laughlin Auditorium fol­lowed. 
The students then made their way to Carroll Auditorium tor a panel discussion with current Saint Mary's women. Organizers planned the panel discussion without parents so that the prospective students would get a chance to ask questions that they might not otherwise ask about the College. 
Students asked questions about everyday life at the College touching upon topics such as pari­etals, dress codes, scheduling and dorm space. 
The tour guides dropped their groups at the Dining Hall for free lunch, then invited them to a late afternoon Mass at Regina Chapel. From this point on numbers decidedly dwindled­there was, after all, school in the morning. Celebrant Fr. Jim Gunshinan prayed for "those facing difficult decisions about their future." After today, the Saint Mary's Admissions staff hopes that the hardest decision won't prove so difficult after all. 
You're in the Army now 



Foundation honors Miller, Bland 
By RORY FANNING News Writer 
The International Rotary Foundation honored Seth Miller and Beth Bland as this year's International Hotary Scholars. 
The Foundation, an international as<;ociation dedicated to the advanee­ment of good will and humanitarian 

College Democrats: General meeting on Tues, Oct. B, 1996 @ 7:00p.m. in 221 Hayes-Heair,. Guest speaker to discuss "Economics and the Election' Q's call Catherine 232-0431 
Feast of Holy Rosary: On Mon., Oct 7 at 6:45 p.m., The Children of Mary, ND Hight to Life, and the Knights of the Immaculata will celebrate the feast of the lloly Rosary at the Grotto. Consists of Benediction, Exposition, and the Rosary. 
Women's Resource Center: Open house at the Women's Resource Centt•r, Wed., Oct 9, 7:30-9:30 p.m. Refreshments SL•rwd, All Welcome 
Rt•.<;pat Lift• Week: 
10/7 6:45 p.m. · Pro·Life Rosary-Grotto 
10/8 7:00p.m. -"Living out the Gospel of Life: A Prayer for lhe Condemned" Joe 
Ross, CSC· Walsh Hall Chapel 
10/9 7:00p.m. · Litany for Life. Fr. Mike Baxter, CSC-Field House Mall 
10/10 7:00p.m.. "Living out the Gospel of Life: A Prayer for the Dying" Dr. 
David Young, '77 ·Walsh Hall Chapel 
10/13 7:00p.m.. "Living out the Gospel of Life: A Prayer for the Unborn" Liz 
Cenedella '97 · Walsh Hall Chapel 
Stop b)' our 2nd floor LaFortune office to see what the Club Council has to offer you and your organization! 

TUE., OCT.1 
.. bike rack. The bike was · time of the theft. 
p.m. A St. Edward's Hall resl· 
•wat; transported by Security to St. 

Medical Center tor treatment or .Injuries sustained during a fall. 
WED.,OCT.2 
12:53 a.m. Security transported a 
The Observer/Joe Stark 

Cadet Sergeant Major Jeremy Scarlett returns to campus from Army ROTC Basic Training weekend in Michigan. 
Dillon Hall resident to St. Joseph Medical Center tor treatment of a sports Injury. 
5:44 p.m. A Fischer Graduate resi­dent reported the theft of his book bag from the bench at the Grotto. The book bag was left unattended at the time of 
the theft. 
7:50 p.m. A Pangborn resident reported the theft of her football ticket book lrom her purse. It Is unknown where or when the theft occurred. 

efforts in third world countries, awards the scholarships to outstand­ing students or professors who exem­plify the spirit of the Rotary tradition, and hope to continue their education abroad. 
Rotary Scholars must submit an essay on their respective to pies, eom­plete three rounds of judging, and undergo an extensive interviewing process. The value of the scholarship varies with each district, but guaran­tees money toward overseas study. 
Bland hopes to study Programmnd Liberal Studies at Louvain College, Belgium. Miller plans to continue his education at the London School of Economics, Kings College, or the University of Sydney, studying politkal economies. 
RIP OFF THIS COUPON INSTEAD OF YOUR ROOMMATE'S FOOD. 
There's an easier way to get free food Just rip off this part of the paper and come to Fazoli's_ When you purchase any adult entree (excluding Double Slice Pizza) we'll give you a free garden salad. It's a steal. 
,-----------------------, 
I FREE GARDEN SALAD I I 991t value I 
1 with purchase of one adult entree (excluding Double Slice Pizza) I 
I I I I I I I I I 52770 US Route 33N, 277-4008, South Bend I 
1One per person, per order at participating Farzoli's only. Not valid with any other offer. Expires 1213119:_]
L-----------------------­
page 4 The Observer • NEWS Monday, October 7, I996 

Analysis 
continued from page I 
needed to do to look presiden­tial." According to Pierce, in the debates Dole needed to pro­voke Clinton to speak or act in such a way that would be dam­aging to himself. 
Dole attempted to provoke Clinton with reference to his past performance, particularly to Clinton's "photo-op foreign policy." The President, howev­er, maintained his poise, which proved damaging to the Dole campaign, according to Pierce. 
Dole surprised audience members in last night's face­off by swaying his focus from the character issue, unlike his previous campaigning tactics. 
According to Pierce, Dole failed to seize his single oppor­tunity to talk about the major personal differences between Clinton and himself, which could have been the key to Dole's success. Dole's remark, "let's talk issues, not charac­ter" surprised Pierce the most, as he cites personality traits as the single most impor­tant factor voters focus on in the voting booth on Nov. 5. 
According to Pierce, if Dole had the chance to make this debate a success, that was his golden opportunity. "Dole did not help himself," he said. 
However, others view this movement away from the character issue as a method of establishing credibility with the American people. "He defi­nitely showed himself as a oredible candidate, and he rose above the political hoopla of character mudslinging," said Adrienne Sharp, President of the College Republicans at Saint Mary's. 
Analysts believe that next week's debates will be reserved for more informal issues, including the character debate. Whereas last night's formal setting focused on more established platform issues and past performance. 
Describing Dole as a more formal speaker, Pierce prog­nosticated that Clinton will dominate in the second, more informal debate. "He [Dole] had the opportunity to do something significant but did not do it," said Pierce. 
Dole's inarticulate speaking was evidenced by his disjoint­ed responses, according to Pierce, who stated that Dole failed to stick to specific issues, whereas Clinton addressed each topic promptly and con­cisely. 
However, many felt that Dole delivered a credible perfor­mance. Sharp said, "I was impressed with Bob Dole's per­formance. He needed to give the debate of his life, and he did a good job." 
Sharp said she expected Clinton to dominate Dole in the debate because Dole is a self described "plain spoken man." While Sharp felt that Dole proved himself in last night's debate, she was disappointed that he did not use the oppor­tunity to jump on the character question. "Not taking advan­tage of that opportunity was a disadvantage to Dole, and a big advantage to Clinton." 
Vice President nominees AI Gore and Jack Kemp will face off on Wednesday, in St. Petersburg, while the final face-off between Clinton and Dole will take place Oct. 16. 
!Please Recycle The Observer! 
ly as fast as it could, and that millions of Americans were feeling an economic squeeze.

Debate 

"Americans are working harder and paying higher taxes," he said. " ... I want the govern­
continued from page I 
ment to pinch pennies for a change instead of Republican plan, just not by as much as the American families." Democrats wanted. With answer after answer, Clinton sought to 
And he rejected Clinton's claim that Dole portray Dole as bent on cutting or gutting vital could not enact his plan for a 15 percent tax cut government programs such as Head Start and plan without exploding the deficit or making student loans. even deeper cuts than Republicans pushed last He also criticized Dole's proposal to eliminate year. "If I could not cut taxes the Education Department. "I and balance the budget at the ------------think my ideas are better for same time I would not look you 'Americans are the future," the president said. in the eye tonight," Dole said. Dole was equally determined 
Quick CBS and ABC News polls working harder to shed any suggestion he was found half of debate watchers and paying higher hardhearted, referring oblique­said Clinton won, about three in taxes...I want the gov-ly to his own struggles overcom­
10 gave Dole the advantage, and ing grave World War II wounds the rest called the match a tie or ernment to pinch pen-and making the case that his were uncertain. nies for a change.' school-choice plan would allow 
Nine in ten of those polled by Bob Dole poor inner-city children to go to CBS said the contest did not better schools. ''I'm not some change their candidate prefer-extremist out here," Dole said. ence. "I care about people." 
Entering the debate, Clinton 'We are better off Predictably, both campaigns was ahead by a dozen points or claimed victory even before the more in most national polls and than we were cand'd1 ates had rnade thmr · way in surveys from the major four years ago ... per-off the stage of Hartford's Electoral College battleground ll 1th' k h Bushnell Theater. 
states. The two candidates will sana y, Ill we ave "When the story is written meet again in 10 days. the right approach for about this campaign, the record Dole was the aggressor the future.'' will show that we turned it 
throughout the night, asserting around in Hartford, time and again that Clinton's ________B_il_l_C_l_in_t_o_n Connecticut," Dole told a post-conservative election-year debate rally. Clinton told his rhetoric about curfews, school uniforms and supporters, "Personally, I welfare reform was at odds with a liberal thought Senator Dole did a very good job in record of giant tax increases and a giant gov-stating his position and I did my best to state ernment takeover of health care. mine·" 
"I wouldn't want to be a liberal either -Mr. Dole didn't limit his criticism to domestic poli-President -but you are stuck with it," Dole cy.said. "Saddam Hussein is better off than he was 
Clinton shook his head at the label and called four years ago," Dole said. More broadly, he it the "golden oldie" of Republican presidential said "We've lost credibility around the world. campaigns. He said that given his record of Our allies aren't sure what we are going to do." deficit reduction, paring welfare rolls and sup-Clinton said the criticisms were off base. porting the death penalty, "I just don't think Dole at one point called on Clinton to clarify 
that dog will hunt this time." whether he was considering presidential par-
For all the sharp exchanges, there were sev-dons for former Arkansas business and political eral moments of laughter. "You can probably associates convicted in the Whitewater investi­tell we like each other, we just see the world in gation. Clinton said he was not considering any, different ways," Clinton said. but did not rule the possibility out, saying only 
Dole said the economy was not growing near-that no one would be given special treatment. 

Buy A Book, Make A Difference 
$15 
Proceeds generated from the sale of this cookbook provide giant monies for Breast Cancer Research at the IU Cancer Center. 
Just Peachy cookbooks now available at the Notre Dame Bookstore 
Help win the fight against Breast Cancer. This 320 page, professionally printed, hardbound cookbook contains over 500 recipes (including your favorite celebrities and politicians) and a special 32 page Breast Health section. 



Seminars on Breast Cancer will be held on Tuesday, October 8 from 
11:30-1:00 p.m. at LaFortune Ballroom or on Wednesday evening, 
October 9 from 7:00-9:00 p.m. at the Hesburgh Library. 
T-shirts will be given at the lunchtime and evening sessions on Breast Cancer Awareness, free of charge while supplies last. 
A silent auction on two auto­graphed copies ofjust Peachy Cookbooks and a special donation by john Mel/encamp will be held at the bookstore the week ofOctober 7. 
All bids on the above items may be placed through the book department 
ofthe bookstore. 
THE HAMMES NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE ON THE CAMPUS 
I 
I 
Monday, October 7, 1996 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS page 5 




Alumnus retires after Daley accepts professorship 
Special to The Observer 1967. He also holds doctoral the Frank R. Huisking
three decades of service 
degrees in philosophy from Foundation. The HuiskingFather Brian Daley, formerly a Loyola Seminary and in theology Foundation was established in Sprcial to The Observer there in the 425th visiting associate professor of from Hochschule Skt. Georgen. 1946 to honor Charles Transportation Brigade. theology at Notre Dame, has He was ordained a priest in lluisking's son, a 1937 Notre 
Major Gennral .John Scully, Ile served as Deputy been named 1970. Dame graduate who died in cornrnandnr of the I02nd U.S. Commanding General in the Huisking Daley joined the faculty of the World War II. The foundation Army Heserve Command 86th U.S. Army Heserve Professor of Weston School of Theology in also established a University (USAHCOM) and alumnus of Command prior to his appoint­Theology, 1978 as a specialist in patristics, scholarship fund from which tlw Univnrsity of Notre Dame, ment to the l 02ml USAHCOM according to the study of the thought and cul­eight students are receiving retired this week after 32 in 1991 where he was later University ture of the early Church. lie financial aid this year. years of military servicn. promoted to Major General. provost came to Notre Dame as a visit­Charles lluisking, who died in Coineidmltally, his retiremnnt From 1993 to 1996, General Nathan ing associate professor two 1970, was the founder of Chas took placn at thn samn time Scully was a member of the Hatch. years ago. His publications L. Iluisking & Co., Inc., the par­
A native of

tlw I02nd USAHCOM, which Army Heserve Forces Policy include "Companions in the ent company of Glyco
Daley

hn has commandnd sincn Committee, and served as its 0 range, NJ, , Mission of Jesus," an anthology Chemicals, Inc., a division of I 'J9 I, was dnactivated. The Viee Chairman in 1995-1996. Daley gradu-of writings on Jesuit religious Swill Aluminum. Iluisking, two nvnnts wnre marknd with General Scully's decorations ated from Fordham University life, and "The Hope of the Early whose five sons all graduated a military cnrmnony at com­inelude the Legion of Merit, in 1961. A Hhodes Scholar, he Church: A Handbook of Patristic from Notre Dame, served for 
mand hnadquartnrs in St. the Army Commendation studied classics, philosophy, and Eschatology." The Iluisking many ynars on the advisory Louis, Missouri. Medal with four Oak Leaf ancient history at Merton chair in theology is one of two councils of the University's C111Wral Scully graduatnd in Clusters, the Army College, Oxford, where he endowed faculty positions Colleges of Science and 
I 'Jh4 narning a Bachelor of Achinvement Medal with three received a master's degree in underwritten at Notre Dame by Engineering. 

t\ rts dngr1H~ in English. II o Oak Clusters, the National latnr ohtainod a Masters Ddense Service Medal, the d1~gr1w in l·:nglish from Do Armed Forces Heserve Medal, Paul Univnrsity in I 966. thn Vietnam Service Medal, 
Sc.ully 1mt1~rnd the Army in the Army Service Hibbon, the I ')(,4 upon r!H~I~iving a corn­Army Heserve Components mission through tho Hnsnrve Overseas Training Hibbon, the Ol"lknrs Training Corps. Hepublic of Vietnam Campaign 
After cornplnting the Medal, and the Hepublic of 
Adjutant Gmwral <Hficnr Basie Vietnam Gallantry Cross with coursn, lw bm~amn the assis­Palm Unit Citation, as well as tant Chief of thn Fifth Army tho Army Staff Badge. O!Ticnr Distribution Branch. Currently, General Scully is In 11)(,7, lw was dnployNI to Senior Vice President and 
Vintnam with the 38th Basn Director of lluman Hesources Post OflkP. Upon his eompln­for LaSalle National tion of activo duty in l 'J68, he Corporation. lie and his wife, 
joir11•d tlw Army Hnsnrvns, Judy, live in Hiverside, Illinois, spnruling most of his career and have three children. 
Relatives said roughly 2,000 friends and former 
• OBITUARY 

patients attended a wake last week at Glueckert Funeral Home in Arlington Heights, Ill., accord­John Cywinski, a doctor from Hoffman Estates, ing to The Daily Herald. Cywinski's f\tneral pro­Ill., died of an aneurysm at Notre Dame Stadium cession passed by his home of 29 years and by St. 
during halftime of the Notre Dame-Ohio State Viator High School, where he had been the foot­game on Sept. 28, The (Chicago) Daily Herald ball team's physician.
reported Friday. 

When he wasn't making rounds at the hospital. 
Cywinski. a ·1956 graduate with a bachelor's of Cywinski could be found soothing babit~s andscience degree, was at tbe game with his wife 
reassuring anxious parents in his Hoffman
Sue, his five children, and two of his seven grand­Estates office. 
children. The night before, he met coach Lou "He was the type of doctor who, no matterHoltz at the pep rally at the Joyce Center. 
what else he had planned, would drop what heCywinski loved nothing more than watching the 
was doing to see a patient," said Dr. Robert
Fighting Irish play football, family members said. 
Boton. "They always came first."
"Dad was taken far too early, but he would 
The Daily /Jerald and The Observer's Michelle
have liked the way it happened," said his son 
Krupa and Brad Prendergast contributed to this
John, himself a 1984 Notre Dame graduate. 
report. 



University receives grants for new scholarships 
Sprcial lo Th~ Obs~rver 
William He illy, chairman and CIW of K-Ill Communications Corporation, has given $1.5 million in K-Ill stock to Notre Damn to fund merit scholar­ships for outstanding students. 
Heilly is a Notre Dame grad­uate and a member of the University's Board of Trustees. In presenting the gift at the fall meeting of the trustees, he said. "This grant will be used to rnward students entirely on merit. To study at this University truly is a prize, and it's my hope this scholarship will bring Notre Dame its next Hhodns Scholars." 
"Scholarship aid has been and continues to be Notre Damn's foremost fund-raising priority, " said Father Edward Malloy, the University's presi­dent, in accepting the gift. "It is always a proud moment for us when a distinguished alum­nus like Bill Heilly makes it possible for future generations of students to share the bene­fit of a Notre Dame educa­tion." 
Heilly is actively involved in both educational and "safety net" issues. 
In addition to being a Notre Dame trustee, he has spent the last five years assisting Cardinal Hayes High school in NewYork's South Bronx. With his help, Cardinal Hayes is in the process of successfully reinventing itself as one of the most technologically advanced high schools in the country. lie has been responsible for the installation of more than 
150 computer stations, and has assisted in developing computer-aided curricula in English, science, reading, and journalism. 
Heilly's current project at the high school is to oversee the construction of the modern fitness center. 
This new, state-of-the-art facility will allow students to engage in health-enhancing recreation in a secure environ­ment. 
Reilly also serves on the boards of Citymeals-on­Wheels, Channel 13/WNET, and the FMC Corporation. 
Since founding K-lll Communications in 1989, Reilly has propelled the diver­sified media company into generating annual revenues in excess of $1.5 billion. 
The University has also received a grant of $100,000 from the Halph M. Parsons Foundation to establish an undergraduate engineering scholarship fund in memory of Len Pieroni, a 1960 Notre Dame graduate. 
Pieroni, chairman and chief executive officer of The Parsons Corporation, a world­wide engineering firm, died April 3 in a plane crash in Croatia. 
He and 34 others, including 
U.S. Commerce Secretary Ron Brown, had been exploring business opportunities in the Balkan region when the Air Force CT-43 in which they were traveling crashed while attempting to land at the Cilipi Airport near Dubrovnik. 
"The Parsons Foundation has further ensured that Len Pieroni's name will always b1~ affectionately remembered at his alma mater," said Notre Dame's president, Father Edward Malloy. "We are indeed grateful for this gener­ous gift in memory of such a fine man." 
In 1993 Pieroni received one of Notre Dame's College of Engineering honor awards for his leadership in international engineering and construction. 
The Ralph M. Parsons Foundation of Los Angeles became an independent grant­making foundation upon Mr. Parson's death in 1974. The foundation supports pre-emi­nent institutions of higher edu­cation, among other program areas. 
24th Annual SuJDJDer Progra1ns 
ND-SMC Students 
Meeting October 7th Carroll Hall, SMC 
7:00p.m. London Rotne 
May 21-June 20 June 15-July 14 
Travel in Ireland, Scotland, France, Germany, and Switzerland 
Courses Offered in Business & Economics, Education, English, History, Italian, Justice, Music 




PIZZA! 
Past Students and Faculty will be present. For information call Prof. Black at 284-4460 or 272-3726 

page 6 The Observer • NEWS Monday, October 7, 1996 
• AFGHANISTAN • JAPAN 
Fights rage under new rulers Governor pushes for 
removal of U.S. troops 
By ANWAR FARUQI 
Associated Press Writer 
KABUL 
Taliban fighters bombarded a northern valley with rockets Sunday in the second day of their assault on government soldiers, who took refuge there after being driven from the capital. 
The Taliban were pouring more firepower into the area, and convoys of tanks, trucks and fighters were seen heading toward the Panjshir Valley, 90 miles north of Kabul. 
The Taliban, a group of Islamic militants that has con­quered most of the country, claimed Saturday to have cap­tured three mountain peaks overlooking the valley, but were still far from former gov­ernment troops deeper inside the valley. 
The former government mili­tary commander, Ahmed Shah Massood, reportedly took heavy artillery, tanks and rock­et launchers when he fled the city last week. But it is not clear how many soldiers are fighting on his side. 


Witnesses at the edge of the valley said they saw the Taliban fighters preparing for battle, shaking their heads from side to side and grunting religious chants before setting off. 
The Taliban, which has imposed its strict interpreta­tion of Islamic law in areas it controls, ousted Massood and former President Burhanuddin Rabbani from Kabul on Sept. 27. 
A Taliban defense ministry spokesman said on condition of anonymity that fighting was concentrated at the mouth of the valley. The new Taliban rulers in Kabul have declared Massood a war criminal and vowed to push his troops out of the valley. 
There were reports of a few civilians fleeing the area; many had already left. 
As the fighting raged north of Kabul, the U.N. special envoy Norbert Holl held more talks with the new Taliban rulers in the capital. 
Holl refused to give details about his talks, but he had been expected to convey the 
U.N. dismay over the Taliban's human rights record. 
Women have been ordered to stop working and to cover themselves from head to toe. Education for girls has been banned. Men have been ordered to grow beards, wear either a skullcap or turban, and pray five times a day. Cassettes, television and most games have been banned. 
•ISRAEl 


'Peace' still resembles war zone 
By DIANNA CAHN 
Associated Press Writer 
RAMALLAH 
It looks like a war zone. Israelis soldiers with a tank are dug in on a hilltop and snipers shielded by mounds of loose rocks focus their tele­scopic sights on the Palestinian city. 
"It's like Yugoslavia," the Israeli squad commander said, identifying himself only as Ronny. "Who thought that after the (peace) accords we would be here with tanks?" 
Gunfights erupted between Israeli and Palestinian troops in the West Bank and Gaza Strip late last month; 58 Palestinians, 15 Israelis and three Egyptians were killed. 
After the first battles on Sep. 25, Israel surrounded every major West Bank city with tanks, a haunting reminder for Palestinians that the Israelis are still in control and that autonomy is a long way from their goal of an independent state. 
The Israelis insist that the new military positions are a defensive precaution taken after Palestinian police opened fire on Israeli troops. 
Defense Minister Yitzhak Mordechai maintained last week that the show of power calmed tensions, and he has since pulled some of the tanks back, out of sight of the cities. 
But he warned that if the Palestinians shoot, Israel will respond "with massive force and fire." 
The tank overlooking Ramallah can't be seen from the city. but its presence is felt. 
"They are just threatening and bullying us," Ramallah resident Meral al-Agha said. "This does not coincide with the peace process and what is supposed to be an atmosphere for promoting peace between Israelis and Palestinians." 
The talks may be the last 
hope of saving peace efforts. 

?I ;e~ ~i{e 1fJed &tte~tt... r~e~~ 
By ERIC TALMADGE 
Associated Press Writer 

TAKETOMI ISLAND 
In the closing days of World War II, Okinawa's main island was virtually leveled in the last land battle between the United States and Japan. The nearby coral-ringed islets escaped unscathed. 
Now, as the Okinawa state government pushes for the complete withdrawal of American troops still stationed here, it is the residents of Okinawa's outlying islands who are gearing up for an invasion -by Japanese tourists. 
Although he hasn't won the agreement of either Tokyo or Washington, Gov. Masahide Ota is setting plans based on his demand for a 20-year phaseout of U.S. military bases, which house 30,000 American service­men and women. 
Since the removal of the bases would likely cost Okinawa's economy $2 billion annually, his plan calls for a major boost in construction, publicity and other projects aimed at more than doubling tourism revenues over the next five to 10 years. 
That has people on Okinawa's more pristine, smaller islets concerned. 
The brunt of the military presence is borne by Okinawa Island, where all but a handful of the troops are stationed. The smaller islands thus have little to gain from the bases' removal and fear a surge in tourists could destroy their natural rich­es. 
"Tourists are good, but not too many," said Tomihiko Kajimoto, who operates a glass­bottomed boat on tours over the largest reef of blue coral in the world. "Wherever there are a lot of tourists, there's a lot of garbage." 
In peak months, as many as 400,000 tourists, most from Japan's main islands, already travel to Okinawa. Within the next five to 10 years, officials want the total yearly figure to reach 7 million or more. 


~ 7 (')~ 1996 
6:45fuH 
~ 
~~ &~ P!t6-~i/e ~~ 

., • .. .... 1'f ~I '1.• ~IIi ... , • ~ i <lr ... 
Monday,October 7, 1996 The Observer • NATIONAL NEWS page 7 


PMS contributes to adolescent suspension 
By DEB RIECHMANN ing their child's right to free 
Assod~ted Press Writer 
WASHINGTON 

Suspended: A 13-year-old honor student in Ohio for hav­ing Midol at school. A first­grader in North Carolina for a kiddie smooch. 
Two co-eds at a Homan Catholic high school in Florida refused t.o nnnove "pro­choice" stickers from their cars and were suspended. as was an Anderson, S.C., boy who wore a jacket to school with a Confederate hattie flag on back. 
Buf'ft~ttld by lawsuits and lesser criticisms. many school administrators have begun fol­lowing to the letter school rules on weapons, clothing, drugs and potentially offensive behavior. Many want to ensure their students respect differ­ences among classmates. Others are trying hard -too hard. some say-for "political correctness." 
"They're going and getting all strid now because there's all this crime,'' said Robert Evans, a senior at Archbishop Carroll High School in Washington. 
Many educators agree with the Washington 17 -year-old. They say removing students from school is not the first choice for discipline, but offi­cials havo become quick to suspend in response to public unxiety over school safety. 
"You may see that we are eracking down more to be sen­sitive to what the public wants," said Carole Kennedy, principal at New Haven Elementary School in Columbia. Mo., and president of the National Association of Elementary School Principals. 
Some educators also fear lawsuits filed by parents alleg· speech or expression has 'beeri violated or the school did too little to protect their child's safety, said Gwendolyn Gregory, deputy general conn· sel of the National School Boards Association. 
They read about the jury. in San Franeisco that awarded $500,000 to a. student on find­ing that school officials Ignored her (~omplaints about a sixth-grade boy's almost daily barrage of vulgarities, lewd insults and threats. The jury ordered the school district to pay 93 percent of the award; the boy's family, $27,000; the girl's forrner principal, $6,000. 
In response to inquiries, the 
U.S. Department of Education issued policy guidelines in August for peer sexual harass­ment. Norma Cantu, the department's assistant secre" tary for civil rights, said harassment that "creates a hostile environment" is a. fed~ eral offense, covered by a law prohibiting sex discrimination In· educational programs and activities. Thus, she said, a school can be liable for failing to respond appropriately tc) a pupil's complaint ofsexual harassment by a classmate. 
Nadine Strossen, national president of the American Civil ..• Liberties Union,. saJd ~he··· thinks educators' fears of being sued are overblown•' Public education is ''under siege," she said, but trea,tirig Midol like marijuana lll,~k(;)S the school look ridiculous./ > i 
The Midol· incidentoc(:Urted · · last week in Dayton, OJ;itp,. where the 13-year-old gtrtwrur' suspended for. violating b.er school's drug policy. Shf;l ha~r· borrowed a packet of the men.:., strual pain pills front a class~: 
mate but never took it/ 

~~~ &)~~~~/'~~~~~~~~~ 
... 
~~ ) ;\ ~~ • . ( '<) / 
sE ER' , ' : ~D \, 'RlDlf "' :' 
0 en to all ND/SMC students 

Challenging academic program at Sacred Hearl College in Cochin, India, focusing on the Asian world. 16 semester credits applicable towards core or major requirements. 
Oppor·tunily for travel nnd study in many countries of !he Far Eas!, Southeast Asia, South Asia, Eastern Europe and Western Europe. 
INI'l'RMATION ANil AI'I'I.I<'ATI<'N:' AVAII.Aill.l' 
Pli\.'~RT VIDE\.' l''N llh.111LII..i11 r:-:: AIJlf'.1N1 TD ANf:'X'l!R QIIEFTll"lN~ 

Any quc.•tion.•? Call /Jr. C Pu/lapinl•. 
/99J .•tuJmt.• on the Great Wall nfC/riflll 








Debate fails to impress Perot 
By JIM ABRAMS NAFTA agreement in 1993. got them bracketed tonight. Associated Press Writer Perot had predicted earlier That's one example of our Sunday that after going one-on­strategy," said Perot, the bil­WASHINGTON one with Clinton, Dole would lionaire Texan running at the 
Ross Perot said Sunday the regret that Perot was kept from head of his Reform Party. presidential debate that he was participating in the presidential Perot also insisted that he will excluded from was "interesting debates. stay in the race, regardless of' to listen to," but neither "Senator Dole will probably his exclusion from the debates President Clinton 
nor Republican 
~-----------------------------------------ha ni ds rival Bob Dole d i ffi­
'We will be in this race to the end · 
talked about the c u I ­real problems because I want the American peo­ties in the country . ple to vote their conscience.' buy-
faces. 

Ross Perot i n g
"It was inter­r----------------------televi­
esting to listen to," Perot said on CNN's "Larry King Live." "My concern is that they never went to the core problems. The core problem is that we have two parties that control our government." 
He also said neither candi­date really addressed the coun­try's financial situation. 
"We are on a financial precipice that we cannot let the country fall off of," Perot said. 
Perot appeared on the show shortly after the presidential debates between Clinton and Dole in Hartford, Conn. It is a favorite Perot forum, who declared his candidacy on King's show in 1992 and debat­ed Vice President Gore on the be missing me a lot. He would wish that there was a third per­son there because it's just one­on-one tonight, and that will be a tough game," Perot said on CBS' "Face the Nation." 
Perot, who lost a court battle to reverse the decision by the Commission on Presidential Debates that shut him out of the face-offs, took his case to the nation Sunday. He appeared on CBS and a 30­minute infomercial on ABC prior to the debates and on the King show afterward to answer the same questions posed to Clinton and Dole. 
"They've done everything they can to freeze us out. We've 
s ion air time. "We will be in this race to the end because I want the American people to vote their conscienee," he said. 
The Texas billionaire appeared on a 30-minute infomerical on ABC two hours before the debate began. Sitting with running mate Pat Choate, Perot complained about his exclusion from the debates and the 120 days granted to the Federal Election Commission to review that decision. 
"They could make a decision quickly, but they won't," he said. 
Perot won 19 percent of the vote in 1992 when he actually appeared in the debates. 
HMOs explore alternative medicine 
By STEVE SAKSON 
Associated Press Writer 

NEW YORK 
They won't pay for shark cartilage pills and coffee ene­mas yet, but leading l-IMOs are experimenting with the demi­science called alternative med­icine, hoping to cure ills when regular medicine fails. It's a startling trend. Many doctors still view some alternative methods with great skepticism -the word "quackery" is bandied about -and health maintenance organizations 
284-4468. 

have a reputation for shunning all but the most reliable treat­ments. 
While most l-IMOs already offer chiropractic coverage, a number are adding acupunc­turists and massage therapists, along with practitioners called naturopaths who use herbal remedies, relaxation therapies, yoga and more. The health plans are offering to cover this care just like they do for cardi­ologists and pediatricians. 
On Tuesday, the picture will broaden when Oxford Health Plans Inc., a highly profitable HMO in the Northeast with a reputation for marketing inno­vation, jumps into the field with the most extensive pro­gram to date. 
One big reason is that patients want it, even though hardly any of the alternative techniques have undergone rigorous. scientifically con­trolled studies. 
A landmark survey, pub­lished in 1993 by Harvard Medical School, showed that 
,.............................., 
: CHICAGO FORUM : BUS TRIP 
• 
Friday, October 11 • 
• Most of the 178 ABA-approved : 
• Sponsored by the 
: Notre Dame Prelaw Society law schools will be represented •
• 

• • Meet in Main Circle at 9:45 a.m . • • • Planned return to NO by 7:00 p.m. • $ 10 round trip 
•
•

Sign up in 101 O'Shau~hnessy •
•

by Wednesday, Octo er 9. •
•


•
•
• 

NOTE: Does not constitute an official excused absence from missed classes. 
~ ..............................~ 
one in three Americans used nontraditional treatments, spending a total of $14 billion a year compared with just under $1 trillion spent on traditional health care. 
"Consumers are already vot­ing with their out-of-pocket expenditures that these ser­vices work," said Alan Kittner, a California-based consultant who helps l-IMOs set up net-· works of alternative providers. 
"Quite often these things can be less expensive than tradi­tional health care, especially if you can avoid hospitaliza­tions," said Randall Huyser, an HMO industry analyst with the securities firm Furman Sclz in San Francisco. 
More importantly, public health authorities are becom­ing convinced that at least some of these things may really work. 
At least 41 state governments now require chiropractic cov­erage in some form. Six states require acupuncture coverage and nine license naturooaths. 



VIEWPOINT 
page 8 Monday, October 7, 1996 

THE OBSERVER 
NoTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY'S OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1996-97 General Board 
Ediror-in-Chief Elizaberh Foran 
Managing Edirors Patricia Carson Tom Roland 
News Ediror ........................ Brad Prendergasr Viewpoinr Ediror ................... Erhan Hayward Sports Ediror .....................Timorhy Sherman Accenr Ediror ........................... Joey Crawford 
Saint Mary's Editor ................. Caroline Blum Phor\) Ediror .......................... Michael Ruma 
Editor-in-Chief Managing Editor/Viewpoint Sports News/Phoro Accem/Saint Mary's Day Editor/Production General Information 
• THE DISCOURSE 
Business Manager Man Casey 
Advenising Manager ............................ Ellen Ryan Ad Design Manager ............................... Jed Perers Production Manager.......................Tara Grieshop Sysrems Manager ....................... Michael Brouiller 
Conrroller .......................................... Tyler Weber 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University ofNotre Dame duLac and Saim Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administra­rion.of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned edi­rorials rcpresem the opinion of rhe majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accem Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saim Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letcers and Inside Columns present the views of the authors, and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's com­munity and to aU readers. The free expression ofvarying opinions through \etters is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 
631-4542  Business Office  63I-5313  
631-4541  Advertising  631-6900/8840  
631-4543  Systems/Marketing Dept.  63I-8839  
631-5323  Office Manager  63I-7471  
63I-4540  Fax  631-6927  
631-5303  Viewpoint  E-Mail  Viewpoint.! @nd.edu  
631-747I  Ad E-Mail  observer@darwin.cc.nd.edu  


Christianity not always a popularity contest 
As an undergraduate, I had the plea­sure of meeting a fellow student named Brad, a Russian major who is the son of a Protestant minister. Brad plans to devote his life to missionary work in Russia. We worked together for three years on the student management team in a campus dining hall. Occasionally we would engage in religious conversa­tions. 


Sean Seymore 
One day we discussed televangelism. I asked Brad for his opinion of the most popular televangelist in the nation, to whom I will refer as Dr. X. Brad stated that he is not impressed with Dr. X's ministry; however, he did not give spe­cific reasons. This is surprising, because Dr. X has been on television for over 25 years, has a church with thousands of members, has published numerous best-selling books, and attracts many national celebrities to his weekly ser­vices. However, after considerable thought, I can now understand why someone truly committed to doing Christ's work would question the way that Dr. X ministers. 
I have viewed bits and pieces of Dr. X's broadcasts for many years. When Dr. X gives a sermon, I have noticed that two words are rarely mentioned. In fact, even when I look back on the countless homilies I have heard, these same two words are rarely mentioned. It appears that these two words are dis­appearing from sermons in many Christian houses of worship: sin and hell. 
The one attribute of Dr. X's ministry that stands out is its popularity. Dr. X is undoubtedly the most popular televan­gelist in the nation. His followers proud­ly proclaim that "Dr. X makes people feel good about themselves." The role of the Christian church is changing in America. In addition to being a house of worship, the church has assumed the role of counselor. In some churches, psychology and religion are given equal weight. It appears that Americans have become fickle when it comes to choos­ing a church. Some persons will no longer attend a church where they will be criticized, disciplined, or reminded about sin and hell. They will simply attend another church or stay home. Therefore, some ministers have found that if they avoid criticism, discipline, and the use of words "sin" and "hell" in their sermons (or change their meaning, which is what Dr. X has done), their pews will be full on Sunday. 

For example, rarely will one hear the following statement m a worship ser­vice: "Failing to address the needs of the poor violates the law of God and is sinful." Now the message is, "Remember the less fortunate in your prayers." I believe that such mild mes­sages are misleading. Eventually, some persons develop a perverse understand­ing of the law of God. Sin is an undeni­able part of human existence; it sepa­rates humankind from God. If the pur­pose of the church is to foster the rela­tionship between God and humankind, to make Christians true disciples of Christ, and to "Go into the whole world and preach the Gospel," sin and disci­pline should be discussed regularly. 
It is also interesting to observe how behavior that was inappropriate just one generation ago, such as intermit­tent church attendance and tardiness, often go without reprimand. However, some ministers have not "looked the other way." While I was an undergradu­ate at Tennessee, I attended Mass at an old, working-class parish built by Irish immigrants. The pastor had been there for over 40 years. Not only does he give frank homilies, but he also expects dis­cipline. For example he noticed that some persons would leave Mass imme­diately after Communion. One Sunday, he said, "Please do not leave the church until the priest has left the altar." There was a time when the altar servers began to arrive later than their sched­uled meeting time. So, the pastor said, "It's a shame you parents can't have your sons here on time." One Easter, the High Mass was celebrated in Latin. Since many lapsed Catholics attend Mass only on this day, they were not expecting a Latin Mass. Just before the opening hymn, the pastor said, "If you were here last Sunday, you know that this Mass will be in Latin." The pastor is not criticized for his actions because he is making his parishioners true disciples of Christ. In this case, persons have not left the church; all five Sunday Masses are well attended. 

Many persons attend specific religious services because they like the person presiding. I have often wondered if "like" means that the presider is a good orator or if the presider tells the con­gregation what it wants to hear. Jesus Christ told his followers many things that were not pleasing to the ear. Why must all sermons make the congrega­tion feel good? This is not to say that every one needs to include "fire and brimstone," but sin and hell are just as real as obedience and heaven. The Christian church has an obligation to preach God's word wholly and honestly, and should be less concerned with pop­ularity, full pews and hurt feelings. 
Sean Seymore is a graduate student in inorganic chemistry. He can be reached at sean.b.seymore.l@nd.edu or at http://www.nd.edu/-sseymore. 
• 0.UOTE OF THE DAY 
"But what is freedom? 
Rightly understood, a 
universal license to be 
good." 
-David Hartley Coleridge 

• DOONESBURY GARRY TRUDEAU 

~----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­

VIEWPOINT
MonJay, October 7, 1996 page 9 
• lEITERS To THE-EDITOR 

Reaction to student behavior at OSU game varies 
Dear Editor: 
It is unfortunat(~ it takes only one student to ruin a football week­end. I witrwssnd a student steal an OSU flag from an Ohio State fan nnar Brnnn-Phillips Hall shortly after the OSU game, cheered on by others as he ran and was chased by the victim. 
Another stud(mt tripped the victim as he was running at full SJH~nd, and lw went flying on the cement. 
A fight ensued and, fortunately. was quickly halted by another ND student. This student thon proceeded to chastise the one who tripped the victim. and others came to the victim's aid. I heard tlwm say they knew the thief and would help the victim retrieve his stohm item. 
I could not stay to see how all this concluded and walked with hundreds of others to tho parking lots north of the stadium. There was a big silence on the part of the OSU and ND fans as we walked along thinking of this ugly incident. 
I hopn those helpful students wern able to make amends and that tlw stolen flag is not hanging in someone's room. 
MICHAEL KEENAN Springtldd, Virginia 


Dear Editor: 

Notre Dame prides itself on strong family bonds among the students. l'aculty, staff, and alumni. We extend our family to those who are in need in our community, to those who are sick in our community, in service to those outside our community, The extension of fami­ly exists in tradition at Notre Dame. Traditions are strong here. Let's not make shunning our family members a tradition. 
Week after week, month after month, and year after year, we ignore the supportive structure of the fami.ly. We choose to be a family when the team is winning or when the team has a strong potential to win. We reach out to those who are succeeding, not those who are struggling. We extend the hand to help those who do not necessarily need our help. We Ignore the team that loses the foot· ball game, whether it is ours or another. We put down the players who struggled to meet the all too high expectations of their family members. We do not stand up for our family members when we are struggling in attaining our endeavors. We do live with pride for 
Dear Editor: 

I was practically born singing the Notre Dame Victory March. I've been a fan and have felt the legendary spirit of the University my whole life. 
But Saturday's loss against Ohio State was the first time I truly came to know this power­ful spirit as a member of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's family. I took away something much more special than I would have, dare I say it, if Notre Dame had won. 
The extreme loyalty in the student section consumed the entire stadium. Our cheers never let up, and I feel the team never admit­ted defeat until the last second ticked off the clock and it read 0:00. 
Though in disbelief of the passing of another football season without a national champi­onship, the supportive voice of the student body did not cease to echo "we are ND" throughout the legendary stadium. We thanked our team while still on our feet for their hard fought battle as they raised their gleaming helmets high. 
After the Irish Guard took care of some crude Ohio State fans, the Victory March over­powered their taunting as did the Alma Mater. 
those who try, despite the outeome. We do not accept defeat together. We do not act like a family. 
Last weekend, the football team lost one game. Yet already, I have heard that we have a below-average team. Whether that is true or not, one faet is clear: the team played, tried. and lost together. We cannot scoff the team that stayed together. As much as one tries to avoid it, we, as a family, lost that game with the team. We did not eheer for our family members. We did not act like a family. 
We, the fans and the family, must cheer our team throughout the game. We may be vieto.ri­ous on the lleld. We may lose the contest. If we do stand by our team and support them despite the outcome, then we have done more than winning the g<tme. We have brought pride and a closeness among the family that is far greater than any win on the field. That is the tradition of family at Notre Dame. That is Notre Dame. 
PETER KESSENICH 
S~nior, Morrissey Manor 
I have to ask myself, would Ohio State fans have done the same? Could they stand proud at the final second of their defeat knowing that their institution stood for so much mom than football? Would the same fans who a few years earlier booed their own eoach and demand he be fired remain so loyal'? 
Marc Edwards seemed to summarize my feelings as he saluted the student body after the scoreboard read the unbelievable tally of 16-29. Exhausted and disappointed like a weary soldier, he stood alone in the corner of the end zone with his arm fully extendod into the sky, grasping his golden helmet, and thanking the fans for our pride. However, I feel we truly need to thank no. 44 and the rest of the team for reminding us that Notre Dame and its community stand for so much moro than the sport of football. 
Despite what the scoroboard displays, wo will always be victorious in pride, loyalty, tra­dition, and faith -things that most schools cannot even understand. 
SHANNON RYAN 
Freshman,Regina Hall 


Taking a lead from the gods of entrepeneurship 
1.. Hon lluhbard. the pulp science lie­lion author and founder of the Church of SdPntology, was onee quoted as saying, "Tiw fast(~St way to gnt rieh in Ameriea is to start your own religion." I'.T. Barnum, the eircus mogul, allegedly quipped that "no one ever lost money undnn~stimating the intelligence of the Amnriean pnopln." With graduation 

Christopher Kratovil 
~.

'~ ,--::-l
.. 'i --I 
: ' 

looming nearer nvery day, and me still without a coherent plan for the future, those two bits of wisdom have been on my mind a lot lately. The problem is that all thn really cool ideas for a new for­prolit religion have already been taken: proclaim yourself a prophet, and face accusations of being a mere David Koresh wannabe; relnase nerve gas in a crowded subway in the name of Suprnme Truth, and hear the eries of "benn tlwre, done that." No, with all due respect to thn genius behind America's most financially successful eult. the fringe religion market is satural!~d and is no longer thn gold-paved path to suc­C(~ss that it once was. 
In light of this situation, thnre are those who would argue that the next­best thing is to get into the Notre Dame merchandising business. Develop your­self a line of gnnctieally engineered blue and gold vegetables ("perfect for veg­etable trays at tailgaters!"), stick an "Officially Licensed Product of the University of Notre Dame" label on them, sit back and wait for our plaid pants-wearing alumni to snap them up. Ahhh, yes, financial security for life built on the slavish, deep-pocketed devotion of one's fellow alumni. But once again, there are problems even with this insidi­ous scheme; besides the Bookstore "On the Campus" (where else would it be?) lacking a produce section, obtaining that little ND sticker is going to mean that a healthy percentage of your profits are headed to the Dome rather than your pocket. 
Still searching for a fool-proof profi­teering scheme, that recent Harvard study on collegiate binge drinking came to mind. ND might not win a national championship in football any time soon, but that doesn't mean we're not #1 in other fields, such as per capita student alcohol consumption. Obviously a liquor store near campus could prove finan­cially lucrative. I'd start by paying off the right people in the South Bend Police Department, and then sell Jack Daniel's to every freshman who walks in with a note from his mom assuring me that he's 21. 
Of course I'd have to keep a couple of nasty attorneys on retainer in the odd event that an underage customer should clio of alcohol poisoning, but aside from that, this struck me as a low-risk, high­return plan. But then all those "dry campus" rumors started floating around: no doubt the day Krat's Beverage Emporium "Near the Campus" opened for business would be the same day that Monk holds a press conference against a cheering backdrop of Flipside members to announce the new alcohol policy. 

Naturally, this steady accumulation of dead-end schemes was starting to get me down. Indeed, the possibility that I might not be able to eon my way into the good life had become so real that I con­sented to take the LSAT this past Saturday. I, along with several hundred of my senior classmates and tens of thousands of would-be lawyers across the nation, plopped down $81 a head to take the exam. Oh, yeah, those who reg­istered late got hit up for an extra $49. But in order for your LSAT score to mean anything, you have to "subscribe" to this sort of pseudo-middle man orga­nization called the Law School Data Assembly Service (LSDAS} at another $82 per annum. And what does the LSDAS, which is naturally run by the same people who bring us the LSAT, do? Well, for your subscription fee plus $8 per law school you apply to, LSDAS is kind enough to forward a Xerox of your undergraduate transcript plus a copy of your LSAT scores (together known as the "Master Law School Report"} to the various admissions offices. Just in case you think that those who have signed up with LSDAS are gullible fools who have who have forked over a considerable sum of money for a service whieh does, well, next to nothing, you should know that LSDAS is obligatory for almost every law school in the country, that they have no competitors (I believe the term for that is "monopoly"}. What an ingenious racket! 
Oh, but the fun doesn't stop there. The company, Law Service, that runs the LSAT and LSDAS also offers some $234 (plus shipping and handling} worth of publications to use in preparing yourself for their test. If you still don't feel ready for the test after all that, never fear, for the McDonald's and Burger King of tlw test preparation world, Kaplan and Thn Princeton Heview, ofl'er intensive cours­es at only $795 each. Lest you think that KaplanffPH is monoy better spent than the LSDAS subscription. gems of wisdom from the course includo "eat a good breakfast on the morning of the test," "expect some questions to take you for­ward in time and some to take you back­ward," and "reread the question if nee­essary." 
In one final stroke of genius, Law Services -fully aware that most test­takers are supremely eager to learn their scores -offers to give you your results over the phone a few days before they are mailed out. Needless to say, there's a $10 fcc attached to the human­itarian gesture. 
I don't mean to imply that the LSAT/LSDAS is the only cash cow of a standardized test out there . From what I understand, our would-be physician friends get milked even harder by the MCAT and medical school application procedure. I don't imagine that whatev­er company runs the GRE is in danger of folding. And of course the real money is in the tests administered to almost every high school kid in the country, the SAT and the ACT. 
So, that's it, friends. After graduation I'm buying myself a Seantron machine, a couple of dictionaries and coming up with a fancy acronym fro my new stan­dardized test. What better way to mak(1 it rich than by sticking it to no-income college kids who want to continue their educations? 
Christopher Kratovil is a senior Arts and Letters major. 1/is column appears every Monday. 




Movie Monday 
Monday, October 7, 1996
page 10 

Something Good About 'That Thing' 
• AT THE MOVIES WITH fATMAN AND DADDY 

~EXTREME MEASURES9 EXTREMELY DULL 
Courtesy of Castle Rock Entertainment 
By CATHERINE DEELY 
Accent Copy Editor 

(Out of Four) 
Yes, the song WILL stay in your head forever. 
It's what everyone seems to know about"That Thing You Do"-the cutesy, Pop-Lite, destined-for-elevator-airplay single, spawned from the film of the same name seemingly for the single pur­pose of gracing U93 repeatedly. And repeatedly. 
So the logical conelusion would be that "That Thing You Do"-the big-screen version-might have just about the same properties as its title song: cliched, fluffy, bordering quite dangerously on the exceedingly irritating. 
Yet somehow, somewhere, it turns out to be a genuinely enjoyable movie. Its beauty is that, like the single, it does not attempt to be thought-provoking art. It plays itself out and it has fun doing so. 
Much hype has surrounded "That Thing You Do", mainly because of its writer, director, and co-star: the undeni­able Big Name in 1-lollywood, Tom Hanks. Clips flashed on television have 
"In every life there comes a time when that dream you dream becomes that thing you do." 

suggested a Hanks-penned retelling of never unadorned. Bands on the silver the Beatles story: the suits sported by screen do not merely break up and float the main characters alone would seem away wherefore they came; they sponta­to imply such. Thank God for Hanks and neously combust, and take many, many for the American moviegoer, the others with them. See "The Doors" for rumors are all untrue. The ~----reference. The Wonders do 
boys in THIS band are about as akin to the Beatles as 
the New Kids on the Block. But hey, the 
f i l m 
shrugs­that's all g 0 0 d ' 
too. 
T h e storyline is the stuff of 1960's suburbia dreams: a casually grouped ensemble of four working guys from Erie, Pennsylvania acci­dentally stumbles into the musical big time, thanks to a lone catchy tune (bet you can't guess which one.) They rise, they rejoice, and they inevitably fall. Appropriately enough, they are called The Wonders; what they actually end up being are one-HIT won­ders. When the reality of their fame's fleetingness is at last revealed at the film's conclusion, the revelation is not a crushing disappointment, but a relief. Anything less casual or more dramatic would blight out the simple dose of feel­good which Hanks has crafted this movie to provide. 
Movies about rock bands are almost 

not string themselves out on drugs, indulge in scandalous sex with ravenous groupies (well, none that we see, at least), or 
h a v e 
o v e r ­whelm­i n g I y violent and des­perate c 0 n ­

fronta­tions with one anoth­The 
Courtesy of Twentieth Century Fox 
Tom Hanks por­
trays a record compa­
ny executive who man­
ages a rock band, The 
Wonders, whose signature song rockets to the top of the charts. Hanks makes his feature film writing and direction­al debut in "That Thing You Do." 
are somewhat cliched: Johnathon Schaech's Jimmy, the self-absorbed artiste who cannot bear the insult of having his magnum opi made commer­cial; Steve Zahn's Lenny, the wisecrack­ing, pleasure-seeking buffoon; Ethan Embry as the anonymous strange and wallflower-ish bassist, who never has much of anything to say; and Tom Everett Scott as Guy, the well-adjusted cool guy who just likes to play his music. Of course. any movie about four funky dudes in a band would not be complete without the token beautiful girl to instill romance-and conflict-in at least a few of their souls, so Liv Tyler comes along, too, as the Wonders' biggest fan. 
Hanks himself does a reasonable turn in his project; he plays the Band Boss likeably, but, thankfully, not so much that his character becomes indis­tinguishable from the nice guys in "Big" and "Sleepless in Seattle" who have helped to carve out his image. His direc­tion is flowing and unpretentious: the characters' lines spark out almost as if improvised, with enough bizarre humor and unafl'ected campiness to resemble a sort of laid-back documentary. An audi­ence could not only see themselves enjoying (albeit guiltily) the Wonders' music, but having a blast hanging out with them offstage, as well. 
The required semi-heavy elements do dot the picture: the ongoing struggle between true art and big money, the phoniness of the entertainment industry, and. most resoundingly, the unreliability of fickle Fame. The final scene of "That Thing You Do" threatens to turn the movie into an all-American love story: do not be fooled. This is unashamed. classic cinematic light fare at its best. There is no underlying message to be learned, no agonizing philosophizing to he done. Go, see it, smile, laugh: take it for what it is. 
The only worry to be had is getting that damn song out of your head. And even that really isn't so bad. 
Catherine Deely is a sophomore from Warwick, Rhode Island. liuing in Lewis Hall. She is an English major so that she can someday spend her days following a band around. 
By FATMAN AND DADDY 
Accent Movie Critics 
'(;{ (Out of Four) 
Synopsis: Hugh Grant plays a young Brit doctor working in a New York emergency room. He finds fishy things going on with homeless patients who come under his care. Gene Hackman plays a distinguished NYU neurologist looking to make his greatest discovery and finding himself short of time. What could be hap­pening?! 
Fatman: Few things bring more fear into the Fatman's heart than a trip to the doctor. It's not the cholesterol tests. nor the lubricated finger that I find so abhorrent. No. it's a fear that I will be sick. Sick with the disease that has McDonald's running scared and the Crown thinking that Diana radiates beauty when compared to it. You see, I consume hides of beef daily. Beef salad, Beefamato to wash it down, and ribs for a treat. But I don't eat just any beef. I eat only British beef. Pure Limey is what I call it. But, like sex in Haiti, it's a risk-a gambit. With each bite, the spectre of mad cow disease looms in the air. I could find myself frothing at the mouth and groveling on the ground in an instant. 
I think it might be the whole doctor thing. Or maybe it's just that Hugh Grant is English? This movie bothered me. It made me think about mad cow disease. And it's not just those reasons. "Extreme Measures" just sucked. I hated it. I'd rather listen to the Prime Minister's hour or watch goat herding on BBC-3 than see this movie again. Hugh snivels. Gene loses more of his hair. The moral questions pass over like introductory lectures in a utilitarianism class. Everything was so forced and predictable, so contrived and ridiculous-I wish Jesus could have made it all better for me. 
Doctor movies can be good. Witness "Awakenings". But this was just cheese and more cheese-only with a British accent. I wish the cast could get mad cow disease. I wish Hugh Grant would fall in love with Lady Diana and 

they could leave the spotlight of the public eye Hugh Grant and Sarah Jessica Parker star in the medical (not quite thrilling) thriller, "Extreme Measures." 
forever and live in loving union with the British cattle. Then I wouldn't have to see Diana naked on the cover of The Enquirer, and Grant would never make another movie. But, I dream and I haven't talked about the movie. There is nothing to talk about. Go eat some meat and flip between John Major on C-SPAN and ER-you'll get the general idea. 

Daddy: Few things can be more tedious to endure than a movie that tries to do too much with too little time and too thin a narrative. "Extreme Measures" is one of those hastily thrown together montages of numerous, disparate themes that sneaks into your hometown theatres, making little impact and even less income. The film itself is a harbinger of fall, the time where movies which lack the cinematic puissance to premiere in times of Hollywood largesse are foisted on an entertainment-hungry and cash-laden public. Indeed, often do these stinkers successfully solicit funds from mindless millions on the strength of the illusion of quality that a cagey Gene Hackman and hapless Hugh Grant can conjure. However, even cog­nizant of the Wittgenstein verity that "the people on the average are not worth much anywhere", Daddy remains optimistic and contends that "Extreme Measures'"s ruse will be here exposed and dispatched forever. 
Forced to deal with a crippling lack of actual sub­
---------, owing its stay of execution to an ambivalent 
stance, this typical autumnal masterpiece resorts to a feeble attempt at stimulating the emotions of its audi­ence. It does so by cheaply and haphazardly presenting an inept bag of tricks filled with issues such as euthanasia, homelessness. utilitarianism. filial respon­sibility and violated Hippocratic oaths. However, its chicanery proves to be thoroughly impotent. and the movie fails to pique its audience's interest, or any other more intimate sentiments. 
Yes, "Extreme Measures" is a coward in the same sense as is Charles Rice. One of the two is afraid to match itself against the much stronger summer block­busters, while the other is too frightened to publish his articles in a publication where they would meet with the critical scrutiny they warrant. Unfortunately for this dysfunctional and loathsome member of our some­times compassionate (though more often hypocritical and contemptible) Notre Dame family, the cover of the Observer is no more formidable than is the sanctuary of fall. In time, the absence of quality and integrity will finally be discovered in both subjects. 
"Extreme Measures" supports itself on its desperate narrative no more successfully than Hice supports his columns on hollow (and subjectively interpreted) cain­chisms and question-begging arguments. Hegardless, both phenomena will continue to exist, with one entity 
audience, and the other to the most apathetic and spineless student body Daddy can conceive of. It seems that, as long as people will foolishly part with their money, movies like "Extreme Measures" will continue to haunt our theatres. Likewise, as long as our student body continues to occupy itself only with beer, football, and future financial gain, Charles Rice is guaranteed to again pollute our papers with rabid homopho­bia and unmitigated hatred. In conclusion. I feel Notre Dame must ask itself two questions: first, what do movies like "Extreme Measures" say about motion picture executives and Hollywood in general, and, secondly, what does Charles Rice suggest about our esteemed administration and Notre Dame as an institution? Both ques­tions are, in this critic's opinion, queries which demand answers. 
Fatman and Daddy are John Zach and Scott 
Bazik. 

Movie Monday 
MonJay. October 7. 199(1 page II 
• ; i 
}1/ITH KAISEB 

11~at Your Heart Out! 
You'd Ue IUtAV~~ to Make This Your First Date Movie 
By KAISER MEANY 
.'>.1int Mary\ Arrent Fdiwr 
II wo11 c;oldPn C;lolH•s. It won Acadomy Awards. II mad<' a mint at thP box of!icP, and n·dl'l'lll<'d MPI c;ibson's r<'JHitation aftPr that "Bird on a V\'irp" thing. It was Bravt•hPart. t.lw rinPnmtic matPrpincP that pro1nisPd. "I!OMANCI·:. Tlli·:ACIIImY. lllmO­
IC: IIATTI.I·:S ANI> MEL c;JBSON IN A KILT!." lll'y, as 1111' magazi1w ad boastnd. what's not lo likl''! 
I'IPnty, if you inlnnd to vinw this moviP with a "l'losP fri1•1HI" or first dat1•. Now. most of my loyal llhrPP) rnadPrs might arguP thai il was not tlwir intl'ntion at all to makn this moVil' a dating I'VPnt. JloWPVPr, With "llrav<'hl'art's" n•cPnl vidPo r!'lnasP pain~d with all of lhP artion. romaiH'P and M1d c;ibson-nPss of tlw moviP. it is a concnrn of min1• that tl11• movi<' might find its way into IIII'>II'>Jll'rling VC:lls. This. pairnd with di111ml'd lights. Smartl'op and a smooth. romantic yawn-arm-around-tlw shouldnr­II'CJllniqu" rould provP to lw disastrous. 
For tlw slim minoritv who has not sPnn tlw movil' yl't, "llravPh;•art" is lhP story of \'Villiam Wallan·. a fourln1•nth n~nlury patri­ol who pavl'd ll11• way for Scotland's frnndom m·pr a tyranniral British ruin. Molivalnd by lhl' dPalh of his lov<'. and supportnd by a growing numlH'r of Srottish rlansmnn and Irish voluntPPrs. \\'allan• !Pads an oiTPnsivn raid into nortlwrn l·:ngland to rhaliPng<' tlw 
JlOWI'I'S  of  
l.ongshanks,  thP  
king.  

Thl' spncial pf'fl•rts of tlu~ moviP ar<' roll\'incing, I'SJll'l'ially tlw dl'rapitaling hPad ballll' scPIH'S. ThP rilll'lllatography. as w1•ll. is brilliant. I FliN FACT: Ovn Sm., of lllf• I'XtPI'iOI' S!'I'III'S, Sl'l in Srot I and. \VP rP 
artually f'ilnH•d in ln•land.) ThP act­ing, from tlw main rharartPrs to thP 1•xtras. is wondnrful as Wl'li. l:inally, MPI ( ;ibson outdons hi1ns1df in his dirt~l·.­torial dPbut. It is a truly \\'OIHIPrful 1110\'iP. 
So, wh1•rn doPs till' troubiP arisl''! l:irst of all. all of thl' WOillPn in tJw movil' arn bnauliful. Now. this is not a prob!Pmatic first datP lopil'. if you arP not going for rnalism. !lownvnr. knPp in mind that this is tlw four­tl'l~nth l'l•ntury. TlwrP was no indoor plumb­ing in that agn. Not only that. hut rather no hygimw standards what so 1wnr. It was not uncommon for sonHHHII' to batlw a fnw times a yPar ... <tnd that was considP.n•.d good! No hair brushPs. No toothbruslws. No Ivory soap. Following nw? 
Okay women. thP problnms ariS!) when your datP r.omm<'nts how gorgeous tho wonwn look. Not to lwap sonw unrnalistie standards IJpn•, but I think that it's pathetic wh1·n a bunch of anriPnl nomadic wonwn. f'rPsh !'rom working lhP finld and riding horseback in thn rain. look bolter than Ill!'. Not f'nl'ling insnrurP'' Think about it.. ... you will. 
<;uys, you do not gl'l ofl' tlw hook easily in ronwprision. Sun•, all thP mnn an~ scruffy, fal and dil'ly, but then~ is thn pontry of Mel's rharartnr.. William Wallae1~ slays loyal to 1111' mnmory of his lovn until the day l11• .... WI' II. ... 1hrouglwut tlw wholn movie. lie knPps IH)r handk1~rehinf' with him always, and spouts romantic ponlry at thn drop of a hat. 
For exam piP, " .... 1wery day I thought about you.," "IBomn was! not as beautiful as you.," 
"! love you. I always have. I want to marry you.," "I will love you my wholo life, you and no otlwr.," " I don't want to wake. I want to stay hem~ with you.," and. "I sen lmy love's] slrnanlh in you.." llnavy duty stuff. Plus he spPaks numm·ous languages, looks great in a kilt and has big hlun eyes. Compared to that, do you really think that your dale will lw impressed with your suave 'Til call you somnt.inw!" after? !Ev1)n if' you do eall after) Nope. I didn't think so eilhor. 
Which brings about anolhor topic. Tlwrp, are a handful of bigtime romantic love scnrws and a wee bit 'o' nudity that may make you squamish. Thr.se love scenns are not only heavily amorous, but comical as well. 
"Wallace's hair is so long that he looks ridirulous in the kissing scenes." says Mirhael C. Thelen Esq. nf' Morrissey. "I keep thinking that ho looks likn Kip Winger or a mnmber of' Warnml getting it on with a groupiP bar.kstagn. It loses the mood, and makns you look callous whon you laugh out loud during intimate moments." 
Add to that a heaping amount of violence. complete with spears, arrows, blood shed, dirt. grime, pain, loud sound nl'fects, people falling off horses and thoso spiklly things on rhains that Mel swings around and clubs somn British soldinrs in the lwad with, and you have shocking seerws indeed. If you look away, you lose the faith and respnct of your datn. Pay too much attention, and 
you'll look like a 
sadist. 
Or olse, as 
Arwen Dickey 
comments, "You 
can just make out 
during the violent 
seenes......so you 
don't havn to 
watch." I Iowever. 
if this is how you 
opnrate on an 
awkward first 
date to begin 
with, CONGBATU­
I.ATIONS, you do 
not need advice 
from me. 
Finally, it is an 
admittedly long 
movie to begin 
with. and do you 
rnally want to 
subjeet yourself to 
a three hour epic 
with someone you 
are not surn that 
you like? "The 
movie drags at 
times," says Beth 
Lang, a Junior 
from Saint Mary's. 
"You really havn to choose your company wnll." 
What makes this movie drag? Some of the culprits are long battle semws, visual cam­era pans of the countryside, large dramatic dialogues and monologues and gratuitous brnad dipping scenes. This is true. I must have witnessed at least six scenes changes where they focused on a character dipping his bread into some kind of porridge, feeding himself and grunting with approval. (Actually, if you do not adlwre to the advice of this article and do watch this on an early date, you may want to point this out to the person you're with. You might just score some points for perception.) 
So. hncausn of the unrealistic standards created by the charactnrs, the awkward romance scenes, the large chunk of violence and the amount of time of tlw movie. you may want to bypass this as a first date. llowever. it is a truly great movie when walehed with friends. llnather Campbell, a .Junior from Knott, sums it up best when she says, "All in all, "Bravchnarl" is a wonderful movin. I love it!". 
Kaiser Meany lzas not ruled a country ... yet. Now size's a junior communi­cations major at Saint Mary's College. 

Days Of Our Lives 
ByJULIE BARBOUR and JENIFER KOCH Accent Days of Our Lives Cvrrespondents 
The mud that once clogged the hourglass has finally fallen through Now, if we could just take a hint from Billy Crystal and"Forget Paris," we would be happier than white on rietl. 
Poor Sami. Wo hope she doesn't have gunpowder on her dothes from the backfire that took place in the French judge's chamber. In h1lr attempt to convince the judge to rule on keeping her and Austin in Paris for six months, she accidentally talked him into sending the twisted fam­ily back to the U.S.A. Time for Sami to start plan #2744 of "It is fate that Austin and I be together." As we predicted, Sami is not going to sign the divorce papers. 
Tho hot water that Franco has been in cooled down a bit when Jill remembered seeing bright blue eyes through her becr-gogglns the night of' her first attack. You see, Franco has green eyes. Now Fancy Face and Brady will have to find something else to argue about for a while. Maybe they could discuss "Not inviting your ex-fiam~e to your wedding." 
Speaking of ex-fiances, Billie has taken a flight to cloud nine. See what a relationship with a psycho ean do for yotll' psychP'! Oh, and how could we almost forget to mention the barn scene'?! For those of you who saw it, we are sorry; for those of you who missed it, count your lueky stars. 
Kristen stepped onto thin ice when she confessed in her sleep that her baby was dead. Don't worry, though, "Mr. I Don't Miss A Dntail'' .John figured out that Kristen's ''dream" was dtw to IllS pt·eoecupat.ion with Will's kidnapping. The Doc stepped in with her connections and got an appointment for Kristen with a Parisian doctor. Kristen had a ran• encounter with reality when she figured out that she couldn't fool a doc­tor into thinking sho was pregnant. 
Busted!!! Jack finally came through, with some help from Laura, and exposed Peter for the crook he is. After paying off the hit men who had threatened to kill Daniel, Jack received signed proof of Peter's shady past. Days turned into WWF as Peter and Jack did their own versions of the moves Hulk Hogan made famous. A random elderly Frenchman in the park guided Jon and her broken heart towards .lack and his bag o' Band-Aids. As for Peter. he found consolation in Stefano's return and promise of he.lp. 
Stefano's appearance came as no surprise due to the foreshadowing of the safe deposit box he left Loxy. Abc urged his wife to open the box and get over the past, andCeleste convinced Lexy Stefano's evil could reach beyond the grave. He won't have to roach far. 
Paranoia ran through the other half of the Carver elan as Wendy pan­icked when Jonah entered Benjamin in a national baby contest. She seemed quite concerned with keeping their whereabouts a secret from Ben's father. It looks like Wendy and Jonah are about to gilt some seri­ous air time with the necessary pre-marital conllict. 



General Hospital 
By GENEVIEVE MORRILL Accent General Ho~pital Correspondent 
This week in Port Charles...Aiexis David walks in: "Greetings, COUSIN." No wonder. Stefan tells her he wants an acquittal, and she promises him one. Did anyone elsti notice the way slw looked at him when she said that Nikolas is just like his father'?! 
Meanwhile, Kevin is terrified by an onslaught of horrible memories, and the D.A. wants him moved to a maxium security prison...without therapy. Lucy is devastated and in a grumpy mood when she sees Sonny. She explodes that it isn't fair for HIM never to have been caught, and then bursts into tears. Saint Sonny (see below) comforts her. However, he knows all about the place Kevin is lumded for. and Lucy rovoals that she fears that if her Doc must go there, he'II go insane. Sonny swears he will help Kevin. In return, Lucy offers him her stake in Luke's, but Sonny insists she take time to reconsider since she's upsnt and he would NEVER take advantage. They reaffirm their love as Felida walks away with Mac. Lucy pins Felicia with a killer glare before breaking down. 
Stefan anonymously invites Lucky to play a eomputer garne-Tiarnoria. "I can't," says the witless Spencer boy; "my family is leaving town." Yeah, I always tell new Internet pals intimate personal details. When Luke asks Laura how she is, she responds that he is resorting to emo­tional blackmail, and that makes him as bad as the Cassadines ever were. She also claims that he makes her feel she's a prisoner again. Anyone notice that each time the Cassadine name is mentioned. Luke must take a long swig of something alcoholic? 
Tony says he and early need somewhere private to go, and convinces her to rejoin the nursing program. Carly does indeed go baek, while Bobble makes her promise everything short of her firstborn before allowing her readmission. Tony gives Carly the key to his cabin, undf'r the watchful eye of Stefan. Carly calls her mother and tells her she's found a wonderful new man. Virginia calls Bobbie and both mothers sing the praises ofthis lovely man. 
At the board meeting. Jax promises to dedicate his resources to pre­serving the company. Sonny can't understand how the Qs make peace so easily; he wants to whack Jax and bury him in the backyard. Tracy enters and justifies her action with her love. She has the room under her spell... until Ned reveals why it is Lois is gone. Tracy is banished for good. Lila tries to talk to Ned about the reality of his pain. but he continues to hide it. Maybe he, Laura and Brenda should start a support group. Katharine comes over for a PR meeting and says the solution to having Sonny on the board is to make him look good. After all, he is a philan­thropist, has never boon indicted, and just solved all of ELQ's union problems. 
Monica returns from a conference and Dr. Dorman plans a romantic evening. ShH's surprised. a wetlk passes, and tlw guy looks completely different! When Monica breaks it off, Dorman gets insulting...and then threatening. After he vents at Monica. he goes off to operate on Alan's hand. Does anyone smell a malpractice suit? After the surgery, Dorman and Stefan share a look ... what does it mean? Another cousin...or con­spirator? Stay tuned. 
.. 


page 12 The Observer • SPORTS Monday, October 7, 1996 
• MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBAll 


No-nonsense Braves no strangers to post-season 
By PAUL NEWBERRY 
Associated Press Writer 
ATLANTA 
Fourteen years ago, when the Atlanta Braves played St. Louis for the National League cham­pionship, they were a team totally unprepared for the post­season spotlight -and it showed. 
The 1982 Braves had spotty pitching and a just-happy-to­make-it-this-far attitude. Not surprisingly, they were swept by the Cardinals in three straight. 
When the same two clubs begin the NL championship series Wednesday night at Atlanta-Fulton County Stadium, the Braves could hardly be any different. They have the game's best pitching and their eyes on bigger prizes than a division title or even the league pen­nant. 
"This is step two," said Mark Lemke, hardly excited by a 5-2 victory Saturday that gave the Braves a sweep of Los Angeles in the divisional series. "We're on the way, but we're still short of the World Series. There will be no letdown, no hype. You see what happened to Cleveland." 
The Indians -who lost to Atlanta in the 1995 World Series and had the best record in baseball this year -are heading home after an upset loss to Baltimore. The Braves, meanwhile, are moving on to more important things. 
It's almost becoming blase, these early-round playoff victo­ries. After finishing off the Dodgers, the team gathered on the field for a typical postgame celebration: a few high-fives, a few handshakes, then a quick turn for the clubhouse. A few champagne corks were popped, but the celebration was short and low-key. 
"We're just going about our business," said Mark Wohlers, who saved all three wins in the first round. "Nothing short of a world championship is accept­ed." 

The Braves are rapidly be­coming a team for the ages, undoubtedly sensing their ever­growing legacy in baseball his­tory. 
By winning the NL East, Atlanta already had become just the third franchise to reach the postseason five seasons in a row. Now, the Braves have joined Oakland (1971-75) as the only teams to play in five straight league championship series. If the Braves can repeat as World Series champions, they likely will be remembered as one of the best teams ever to play the game. 
"Sure, we've got some talent and we give ourselves a chance to win more times than not, but the thing I'm amazed about is that we play much better, much crisper baseball this time of year than we do in the regular season," said Tom Glavine, who pitched 6 2-3 innings Saturday to complete a virtuoso perfor­mance by Atlanta's starting pitchers. 
Even Glavine had to admit being surprised by Atlanta's amazing run through the '90s, which already includes trips to three of the last four World Series. 
"It's hard to do," Glavine said. "I don't care how good you are, or how good you are on paper, you get to this time of year and a lot of crazy things can happen.... The margin of error is very, very small." 
The margin of error is a lot bigger when you have pitching like the Braves. The three-man playoff rotation -John Smoltz, Greg Maddux and Glavine ­was 54-29 with a 2.88 ERA during the regular season and even better against the Dodgers: 3-0 with a 0.79 ERA. 
Los Angeles hit .147-a record low for a three-game series -managing only 14 hits and not one homer. The heart of the Los Angeles batting order -Mike Piazza, Eric Karros and Raul Mondesi -was 5-for-30, with only two extra-base hits. 
"We've got some big-game pitchers," Lemke said. "You 
saw it once again." 
With a pitching staff that actually edged out the Braves for the major-league ERA title, Los Angeles appeared to have the best chance in the NL of upsetting the Braves. 
"This was the team we were most afraid of," Chipper Jones said. "We're just happy to get by them." 
Now, with three days off, Atlanta has a chance to set up its pitching rotation just like it wants for the Cardinals. Smoltz will pitch the opener, followed by Maddux and Glavine. 
The Braves have won 14 of their last 17 postseason games, including seven in a row at home. Of course, St. Louis has never lost a league playoff series, including that 1982 vic­tory over the Braves. 
"St. Louis is capable, intel­ligent and playing well for (first-year manager Tony) La Russa right now," Lemke said. "No team is going to walk through the series." 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. 
Classifieds 

Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
* * * .. *. * * * * * *,., ••• *. * *. *. Find out how hundreds of student Call Beth at 4-4265 $$$Please call Laura$$$ I NEED WASHINGTON TICKETS· game. My family's coming and 1 NOTICES representatives are already earning @ (219)284-4396 PLEASE CALL X4121 promise they'll cheer. Call Martin FREE TRIPS and LOTS OF CASH NOTRE DAME GA'S WANTED * * * * * * * * * * * * * • * •••• *. * * * x1858 !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! with America's #1 Spring Break ALL GAMES HOME I need 3 AIR FORCE GA's 
!!!!! company! Sell only 15 trips and AND AWAY $$$Please call Laura$$$ FOR SALE: STUDENT TICKET ***"'************•*********** Anyone interested in playing disc travel free! Cancun, Bahamas, 232-0058 @ (219)284-4396 BOOKLETS CALL 4 X4317 My family needs Ga's to WASH golf, call x0509 Mazatlan, Jamaica, or Florida! 24 HRS. Please help. !!!!!!1!1!1!!!!!!!!!!1!!1!!!!!!!!!!!11!111!!!!!!!!!!!!!1! CAMPUS MANAGER POSITIONS BUY -SELL -TRADE I NEED WASH. ST. TICKETS NEED WASH GA'S FOR FAMILY Jon -1889 !!!! ALSO AVAILABLE. Call Now! CALL 243-9357 WILLING TO PAY$$$$$$$$$$$ 
•••FREE TRIPS & CAsw·· 2 Washington GA's needed I need 2 WASHINGTON GA's I need 4 tickets for the Air Force 
*'********••••••••••••••••••••• 

TAKE A BREAK STUDENT TRAV-TICKET-MART, INC. PLEASE CALL 273-2687-MARK THAT PRETIY PLACE, Bed and EL Dave Mathews/Black Crowes OR 243-9476-KATE NEED 2 GAS FOR WASH GAME Breakfast Inn has space available (800)95-BREAK! WANTED: NOTRE DAME GA'S 1st 1 0 Rows 232-0058 FOR PARENTS for football wknds. 5 Rooms with ANY/ALL GAMES. PLEASE CALL HELP-NEED 2 WA GA'S OR STU PLEASE CALL KAREN X4421 private baths, $70 -$90, Ride needed: Fall Break -to 232-0061. Need 2 WASH. tickets TIX CALL KATIE 289-4922 Middlebury, 30 miles from campus. n.e.PA/NJ area. Will pay gas, etc. Call Greg at 2318 PLEASE, NEED 2 AIR F GA'S Toll Road, Exit #1 07, Call 243-9357 I NEED FOOTBALL GA'S! NEED 2 WASHINGTON GA'S-ALICIA 243-1321 1-800-41 8-9487 WILL BEAT ANY OFFER! FOR SALE: 1 Wash. GA. b/o WILL PAY CASH OR 
SPRING BREAK 97. CANCUN, CALL 243-1287 X0931. TRADE FOR 2 AIR FORCE GA'S I NEED 2 AIR FORCE GA's Textbooks boughVsoldltraded PANAMA CITY. BEST HOTELS, CALL DAVE X0806 Call JON @243-9220 5 blks south on ND Ave. LOWEST PRICES. STUDENT DESPERATE FOR A TOTAL OF 1 WAS GA 4 SALE •cHEAP• 233-2342. Pandora's Books. REPS NEEDED. FREE TRIP + SIX GA's FOR AIRFORCE. CALL WANG @ 4-3295 Stud TIX BOOK Leaving for Fall Break? 
COMMISSION.$ (800)484-3498 CALL CARA AND ASHLEY 243-LEAVE YOUR NAME, 4 Sale -X1413 I'd love your AF Tickets! Having EXT. 6531 1185. PHONE AND OFFER friends in! Please call Jen or Sarah
ILOST & FOUND I 
HELP! I NEED 1 Wash. ticket -243-9019 

BUYING G.A.'S FOOTBALL Need GAs for Airforce and Rutgers (prefer GA) for my brother (NO '94) Lost FREE TRIPS & CASH! Individuals 312.404.4903 X0501 ask for Sean Call Michelle x1330 #@#@# Golden Medallion of Jesus and His and organizations wanted to sell NEED 4 PITI+2 AF GAs Sacred Heart SKI & SPRING BREAK beach trips. Need Washington Tix-Stud or GA. Now very DESPERATE for tix to NOTRE DAME GA'S WANTED 2 WASH Stud 288-9102 Sentimentally Irreplaceable Hottest places & coolest spaces. Will buy or trade. Matt 271-3683 Wash. GA or stud tix that were con-ALL GAMES HOME REWARD Call Jeremy x-1045 Check out our web site: www.stu-verted to GAs. Offering handsome AND AWAY Sell 1 Wash Stud GA 
dentexpress.com Call immediately Need 2 GAs for WA. or OH. game reward. Call Ryan @ x3592. 232-0058 $125 b/o @634-0538 Lost-pair of Nike tennis shoes Student Express, Inc. 1-800-Cristina@ x2339 24 HRS. if found call Maria-243-9282 SURFS-UP SELL GA Wsh tix 2775931 BUY -SELL -TRADE HELP! I Need 3 Air Force Stud tix 
WANTED or GA's. Pis call Anne @2625 ·····Losr····· 2 GAs for Air Force NEED4 TIX TICKET-MART, INC. I lost a Corona keychain/bottle FOR RENT Carrie x2344 FOR AIR FORCE 
opener (with three keys) on it over FOR MY FAMILY $$$$$$ ######################### the Purdue weekend. If you found WALK TO CAMPUS Need lots of Washington tix-GA or CHRIS @0788 I NEED GA OR FACULTY TIXS 3 Washington student tix it, please call Paul at 634-1519. 2-3-4-5 BEDROOM HOMES student. Call Meghan @232-7839. ALL HOME GAMES. FOR SALE! REWARD. 232-2595 I NEED 4 AIR FORCE GA'S 272-6551 call Jenny @ 687-8435 
NEED 2 GAs for Washington game! CALL STEVE AT •o867 with best offer Need a place to stay on football Call Megan at 243-9047 n. d. tickets for sale ######################### REWARD weekends? WANTED: 2 WASH GAs or STUD. 271 1635 REWARD NEED GA for Washington game. upgrade FOR PARENTS. WILL Two Washington GA's needed for REWARD Furnished apartment for short term Call Suzy X4034 PAY OR TRADE 2 RUTG. GAs $NEED OSU, WASH, & AF TIX family from Calif. Call Dave x2030 
rent. Full kitchen, living room, two CALL DAVE@ 4-1913 216-995-1902 5-7 PM EDT M-F I'VE LOST MY CAMERA GIVEN bedrooms, sleeps 4+. Call 287-Need 1 AIR FORCE tic bad 216-650-5264 7-9 PM EDT M-F I need 2 non-student GAs for Air TO ME BY MY SONS ON MY 50TH 4876. please call Nate at 271-1846 !@#$%"&.()(.&"%$#@#!@#$%"& Force. Call FRANK at 4-3323. 
BIRTHDAY. NEED 2-4 GA TIX 
Furnished room for rent, $200/mon. Rich Alum Needs WA GA's NEED THREE PITI GA'S FOR ALL HOME GAMES. Will trade 2 Rutgers tickets for 2 CAMERA LOST IN THE HUDDLE Walk to ND. Call Paul at 289-4084. (206)621-3485 FAMILY. CALL COLBY @X1468. CALL 276-2010/288-2877 AFT 5 USC tickets, call x0847. 
ON SUNDAY AFTER OHIO STATE  
GAME. CAMERA DESCRIPTION:  ROOMS IN PRIVATE HOME FOR ND-SMC EVENTS. IDEAL FOR FOOTBALL WEEK- Need 3 Rutgers GA's Call Erik @3807  !@#$%"&.()(.&"%$#@!@#$%"&· NEED 4 AF GA'S FOR OUR  ND DAD NEEDS TWO (2) GAs FOR PURDUE, OHIO STATE AND WASHINGTON. CALL LARRY  Desperately needed UW tickets. Please call Carey @ 232-0885  
RICOH MODEL Z-1002. PLEASE CALL PAUL PENDER­GASTAT 860-651-1911.  ENDS. VERY CLOSE TO CAMPUS. 243-0658. 1 & 2 BDRMS AVAIL. NOW. NEAR CAMPUS. GILLIS PROPERTIES  !@#$%"%"&&")""%"$%@$@#!." NEED GA'S FOR AIR FORCE BRINGING CO-WORKERS FOR ND EXPERIENCE  PARENTS. CALL CHRISTINE OR SONIA @ 243-9433. WANTED: 2 WASH. GA'S. WILL TRADE 2 PITI GA'S OR PAY CASH. CALL JILL 312-871-0970.  (219)422-6088 GA Football Tix -Buy/Sell 67 4-7645 -No student or student conv.  NEED BC & WASH TIX 312-951-5008 WANTED 4 Tickets to AirForce Notre Dame Game. Call Collect 901-795-6724.  
WANTED For Macintosh: modem  272-6306 FOUR SISTERS INN bed & bkfst home. Rms avail for football week- CALL (312) 540-2836 OR EMAIL john_d._potter@ notes.pw.com  ......................................,...... NEED ONE GA FOR SENIOR'S  i need tix for washington. if u can help, please call RON at 288-9102. Need 2 Air F. GA's  PERSONAL  
..  (1200/2400), keyboard, mouse 1­5610 RIDE NEEDED TO NYC AREA 4 OCT BREAK. $ FOR GAS & TOLLS. CALL DIANA X1344 HUGE ND FAN DESPERATE FOR 5 GAs FOR RUTGERS. CALL PAT (813)360-2243. Hundereds of Students Are Earning Free Spring Break Trips & Money! Sell 8 Trips & Go Free! Bahamas Cruise $279, Cancun & Jamaica  ends, JPW & grad. 2 miles from campus. 219.287.6797 FOR SALE 90 VW JETIA BLACK 2DR SNRF 5SPD MINT $6500 OBO 277-3569 LUGGAGE CARRIER for top of car, like new. $50. 616-684-6249. TICKETS  !@##$%"&(("""%"$#@$#$%."%. FOR SALE 2 GA's ALL HOME GAMES 235-3394 ALUM NEEDS GA's for WASH, AF, PITI & RUTGERS 618-27 4-2990 M-F 8am-6pm I need 4 Wash. Tix•• Stud. or GA Call Clare 243-9282 Need 2 Wash GAs and 2 Air Force GAs Call Chad 271-8019  FATHER· LAST CHANCE FOR HIM! PLEASE CALL BRIAN 287-4876 ............................................................,. bless you =========================== NO-NAVY GAME Want to go but don't want to pay for the package deal? I have tickets to the game sans airfare. Interested? Call ASAP Denise X1572 ===========================  Amy 616-4 73-5825 Need 4 Air Force Tix Call Frank Walters 18002439683 Leave name and # ­will pay top $. NEED WASHINGTON TICKETS­HAVE AF, PITI, RUTGERS TICK­ETS TO TRADE. CALL WORK 601-893-5352 OR HOME 901-755­4273 Need 1 Student Ticket for Wash! Please call Diana @ 243-9432  COLOR COPIES ON CAMPUS! COLOR COPIES ON CAMPUS! COLOR COPIES ON CAMPUS! The highest quality full-color copies are now available at THE COPY SHOP LaFortune Student Center Phone #631-COPY Stephanie, Well you are one year away from the life that we all dream of. I hope that you have a great birthday, 1 love ya! J  

$399, Panama City/Daytona $119!  WANTED: NOTRE DAME GA'S  Hope you are having a nice lunch  
www.springbreaktravel.com  3 Air Force tickets  NEED 3 AF GA's  ANY/ALL GAMES. PLEASE CALL  Need 2 GAs for Washington  Jen. L,J  
1-800-678-6386  Call Dave 4-1238  Anne 283-0165  232-0061.  Call Beth @ 4-4265  

Monday, October 7, 1996 The Observer • SPORTS page 13 



'Niner reserves rout Rams 
By R.B. FALLSTROM 
A..sociared Pross 
ST. LOUIS 

The San Francisco 49ers beat the St. Louis Hams again, and this limn they did it with back­ups. 
Backup quarterback Elvis Grbae threw three touchdown passes, two of them to reserve tight end Ted Popson, and the 49ors took advantage of three oarly turnovers Sunday to beat the Hams for the 13th straight limn, 2K-11. 
Yet another backup, Terry Kirby, scored in the first half and Jerry Hicc caught a 31­yard scoring pass in the fourth quartnr. 
Since HiGh Brooks took over as Hams coach last season, the 4(Jors (4-1) have outscored the Hams 147-34 in four games. The Hams' last victory over San Francisco came in 1990 and thny haven't beaten thorn at horne sinee Sept. 14, 1986. 
tirhae stepped in for Stove Young, who took a week off to lwal a nagging groin sprain sufforod in the 49ors' 34-0 vic­tory over the Hams on Sept. 8 in San Francisco. 
Grbae missed Thursday's r1ractiee with back spasms hut looked fine on Sunday, com­pleting 20 of 33 passes for 222 yards before sitting down early in the fourth quarter. His p~r­formance was reminiscent of his first pro start last October, when he threw two touchdown passes and led the 49ers to a fast start in a 44-10 victory in St. Louis. 
The 49ers led 21-0 at half­time and it could have been a lot worse. The Rams (1-4) stopped Tommy Vardell twice inside the 1 to take over on downs midway through the first quarter, and an ill-advised Grbac pass from the Rams 14 was picked ofT by Keith Lyle in the end zone with 30 seconds left in the half. 
Grbac, who's 5-2 as the 49ers starter, wasn't the only backup having a big day. Kirby filled in for Derek Loville, who has a strained left knee, and ran for 73 yards on 13 carries. He also caught five passes for 57 yards. 
Kirby entered the game with 18 yards on six carriees. 
Popson, who caught scoring passes of 1 and 9 yards, entered the game with two catches for 20 yards. He's the backup to Brent Jones, who was inactive due to a shoulder injury. 

The Rams scored for the first time in seven quarters against San Francisco when Chip Lohmiller kicked a 28-yard field goal with 5:15 left in the third period. 
By then, only a few thousand of the crowd of 61,260 were still around. 
St. Louis started the NFL's first all-rookie backfield since 1976 with Banks at quarter­back, Lawrence Phillips at tail­back and Derrick Harris at full­back. 
Banks and Phillips made key mistakes. Banks, who fumbled three times in his first appear­ance at San Francisco, botched an exchange on the fourth play of the game and was picked off by Merton Hanks in the second quarter to set up a 49crs score. 
Phillips let the ball squirt out of his grasp and right to Ken Norton, who returned it 20 yards to the Rams 9. The 49ers scored on the next play when Grbac connected with Popson to make it 21-0 with 5:48 left in the half. 
Banks was 18-for-33 for 180 yards and one touchdown with two interceptions. 
Rice caught seven passes for 108 yards and a touchdown. 
Favre continues record pace 
By RICKGANO 
A.<Sociatcd Press 
CIIiCAGO 

Brell Favre and Antonio Freeman played pitch-and­eateh Sunday, and the Green Bay Packers rolled to their most lopsided victory ever at Soldier Finld against the Chieago Bears, :H-6. 
Freeman came down with a 50-yard touehdown pass from Favm on the final play of the first half and made a fully nxtnndnd grab over Chicago dnfnnder Kevin Minielield for a 35-yard seore in the third quar­tnr. 
Another Green Bay rneeivcr, Don Benbe, returned a kickoff 90 yards for a touchdown as the Packers beat the Bears for a fifth straight game and for the seventh time in the last nine. 
Favre eompleted 18 of 27 passes for 246 yards and four touchdowns, giving him 20 in six games. Freeman made seven catehes for 146 yards. 
The Packers, at 5-l, arc off to their best start sinee 6-1 in 1978. The Bears are 2-4 for the first time since 1983. 
Green Bay beat the Bears by 26 in 1994 at Soldier Field and had a 31-point win in 1962 at Wrigley Field. 
Freeman outmaneuvered two of his teammates and three Chicago defenders to eatch the ball for the touchdown on the final play of the half. 
Chris Jaeke missed the extra point, his first miss in 88 attempts, but still Green Bay had a 20-3 lead. 
Chicago got a field goal from 41-yard field goal from Jeff Jaeger in the third quarter, but Beebe put the Packers back in control, taking the kickoff on the right side and then break­ing left at the 40 and outrun­ning two Bears to the end zone. 
Seven minutes later, Favre hit Freeman for the 35-yarder, and it was 34-6. 
Favre also threw touehdown passes of 18 yards to Robert Brooks and 2 yards to Keith Jackson with 35 seconds left in the first half. 

That play capped a 53-yard drive in just a minute and a half, with Favre hitting Freeman three times for 42 yards. 
Green Bay's Doug Evans then intercepted Dave Krieg -one of three interceptions Krieg threw -at the 50 with 20 sec­onds remaining. Instead of sit­ting on the ball, the Packers decided to go for more. 
After two incompletions, Favre rolled right and heaved the ball to the right corner where Freeman. Beebe and the Packers' Derrick Mayes were battling with Miniefield, Anthony Marshall and Mark Carrier. 
Somehow, Freeman came down with the ball. 
The Bears only first-half points came on Jaeger's 40­yard field goal. 
Fourth quarter rally falls short, Colts lose 
By BUCKY GLEASON 
Associated Press Writer 
ORCHARD PARK, N.Y. 
The Buffalo Bills got a scare from Captain Comeback before making one of their own and beating the NFL's last unde­feated team Sunday. 
Steve Christie's 39-yard field goal with 5:38 remaining in overtime gave the Bills a 16-13 victory over Indianapolis after the Colts rallied to take the lead, then let it slip away. 
"Obviously, you get pumped up because you have a chance to win the game," said Christie, whose 37-yardcr with 15 sec­onds left in regulation sent the game into overtime. "As a kick­er, you have to keep a level head." 
Jim Harbaugh, who has led the Colts to several comebaek victories over the last two sea­sons, helped them overcome a 10-point deficit with three scor­ing drives in the second half that put Indianapolis ahead 13­10. 
Harbaugh orchestrated an 81-yard drive between two Cary Blanehard field goals, but . the Bills came back and improved their overtime record at Hich Stadium to 5-0. 
The Colts and Bills are now tied for the AFC East lead at 4­1. 
Todd Collins, making just his third career start in place of injured Jim Kelly, completed 23 of 44 passes for 309 yards, including a 30-yard TD to Andre Reed in the second quar­ter. 
More important was Collins' poise during a 58-yard drive in the final two minutes of regula­tion before Christie nailed the 37 -yarder that tied the game at the end of the fourth quarter. 
With no timeouts, Collins calmly moved the team against Indianapolis' soft defense before hitting Quinn Early for 21 yards and rookie Eric Moulds for 24. 
He went to the end zone once before Christie came in to kick the second of his three field goals. 
'I just said, 'This is our last chance.' There were no second chances," Collins said. "We had to perform now and not make any mistakes. They were great calls, and we moved the 





Law School Symposium 
Tuesday, October 8 at 6:00p.m. 
Notre Dame Law School Courtroom, 220 Law School 
Scheduled Guest Speakers From: 
• 
DePaul University College of Law 

• 
Northwestern University School of Law 

• 
Notre Dame Law School 


• 
University of Illinois College of Law 

• 
Kaplan Education Centers 


' 
Call to reserve your seat 1-800-KAP-TEST 
w 

Co-sponsored by Kaplan and tbe Notre Dame Prelaw Society • ....r 

ball. It was a great feeling." 
Thurman Thomas had eight catches for 111 yards, and also became the 11th player to rush for more than 10,000 yards in a career. 
Thomas helped put Buffalo ahead 10-0 when he turned a 5-yard dump pass from Collins into a 69-yard gain that led to Christie's first field goal. 
The winning kiek came after Buffalo drove 26 yards to the Indianapolis 22. Reserve run­ning back Darick Holmes helped set up Christie with a 
10-yard gain and  a  key first  
down.  
Buffalo has won  11 straight  

games decided by a touchdown or less, including one in over­time against the New York Giants. 
"Anything is possible in this league," Bills defensive end Bruce Smith said. "It shows the character of this team. We hung in there together." 
Harbaugh was 17 of 42 for 203 yards, but he was sacked five times. Marshall Faulk fin­ished with 55 yards on 20 car­ries after returning from a foot injury. 
Buffalo had built a 10-0 lead on Collins' first career touch­down pass in the seeond quar­ter and Christie's 42-yard field goal in the third. 
After Blanchard answered with a 44-yarder, Harbaugh led the Colts on a 81-yard drive that tied the game at 10-10. 
lie was fadng second-and-22 from his own 7 when he found rookie Marvin llarrison along the sideline for 41 yards to get the Colts out of trouble. On third-and-10, he hit Aaron Bailey for 17 yards. Faulk eventually scored from the 1. 
"We've been in a lot of games like this, and a lot of them have gone in our favor," Faulk said. "This was just one that didn't. The ball bounced in their favor." 
For the first 2 1/2 quarters, Huffalo dominated defensively. 
The Colts had become so flus­tered that they burned all three timeouts 3:40 into the second half. Harbaugh had Bills pass rushers Bruce Smith, Phil Hansen and Bryce Paup in his face for much of the game. 
"We knew they were good up front," Colts coach Lindy Infante said. "We talked about it and worked on it all week long. We just didn't hold up as well as we needed to." 
Indianapolis, held to 82 yards in the first half, did not have a quality possession until the third quarter, when llarbaugh engineered the long drive that tied the game. 
Buffalo had 68 yards rushing in the first half, just five shy of what Indianapolis had been allowing per game in its first four games. Faulk was held to just 10 yards on six earries in the first two quarters, when the Colts were held to just 28 yards rushing. 
Diamond Importer and Jewelry Manufacturer looking for 


CAMPUS REP 
to earn extra income by distributing catalogs and taking orders. 
Engagement Rings, Wedding Rings and other Fine Jewelry 1
,~'' /./ Call Gordia Knox ' 
1-800-922-0090 :·~ or email to sapeck@lnteraccess.com 

.-------------------­
page 14 The Observer • SPORTS Monday, October 7, 1996 
• COLLEGE fOOTBAll 



Big Ten battles shuffle around top ten rankings 
Northwestern shocks U ofM l·n 4th quarter 
ByRICKGANO 
Associated Press Writer 
EVANSTON, Ill. 
Of all the games he's played, of all the victories from a year ago when he helped Northwestern earn a trip to the Rose Bowl, Steve Schnur has never experienced any thing like the Wildcats' 17-16 win over Michigan. 
"Just to come back and go all the way to the wire. It's a great game. It's the best game I've ever played in since I've been here," said Northwestern's senior quarterback after Saturday's emotional come­from-behind victory. 
''I'm more proud of this team now than I have ever been. We have a lot going for us now but we have a lot of the season ahead of us." 
Northwestern trailed 16-0 in the fourth quarter before win­ning on Brian Gowins' 39-yard field goal with 13 seconds remaining. 
The Wildcats drove from their 20 to the Michigan 22 and Gowins actually had to hit the game-winner twice because officials ruled after his first kick that play had not been whistled in. 
After the game, Dyche Stadium was a sea of purple as fans stormed the field to greet the team -reminiscent of last season when the Wildcats stunned college football by win­ning the Big Ten. 
"If this doesn't convince peo­ple to take us seriously, I don't know what else we can do," said senior linebacker Pat 
Fi~~g~~:~·in my heart we were going to win the game. I've never stopped believing." 
The Wildcats rose seven spots to No. 1s in The Associated 
Press poll Sunday, while Michigan dropped eight places to No. 14. 
Northwestern has now won four straight after a season­opening, one-point loss at Wake Forest that left many cynics questioning if last year was just a fluke. 
"When we lost to Wake Forest, a lot of people began to doubt us," Schnur said. "And I can't blame them. I'm sure if I was on the bandwagon, I would've jumped off, too. So this was a statement game." 
Levelle Brown's 3-yard touchdown run capped a 71­yard drive and Schnur hit D'Wayne Bates with a two­point conversion early in the fourth, cutting the lead to 16-8. 
The drive started after Michigan receiver Tai Streets, who tied a school record with 12 catches, fumbled after a pass reception. 
And then another Michigan fumble by Chris Howard led to the first of three final-period field goals by Gowins. 
Still trailing 16-14 with just less than two minutes to go, Schnur directed the fmal drive, hitting a 12-yarder to Brian Musso on fourth-and-9 with a minute left. 
Schnur completed 20 of 35 passes for 246 yards, 128 of them in the final quarter. And Darnell Autry rushed for 100 yards for an 18th straight game. 
Michigan blew a fourth-quar­ter lead to Northwestern for a second straight year and the Wolverines realize how big the loss could be to their Big Ten title chances. 
Chinese ;.. American Restaurant and Cocktail Lounge 
Lunches starting at .... $4.25 Dinners starting at .... $5.95 Banquet rooms available up to 200 


GREAT \VALL 
Bar and Restaurant open 7 days a week 130 Dixie Way N., South Bend (next to Randall's Inn) 

PEACE CORPS 
"THE TOUGHEST.JOB YOU'LL EVER LOVE" 
October 15 &16 
Information Session October 15 Center for Social Concerns 7:00-8:30 p.m. 
Interviews October 16 Career Planning and Placement 8:30 a.m.-4:00 p.m. 
Register at the Career Planning office. Can interview on 10/17 at St. Mary's. 

FOR MORE INFORMATION CALL 


1-800-424-8580 
www.peacecorps.gov 

Ohio State blows out Penn St., earns national attention 
Associated Press 

COLUMBUS, Ohio 
Penn State coach Joe Paterno didn't say directly that Ohio State should be ranked No. 1 in the nation after the Buckeyes defeated the Nittany Lions. But he strongly hinted at it. 
Voters in the Associated Press poll on Sunday advanced the unbeaten Buckeyes from third to second -behind top-rated Florida -as a result of Saturday's 38-7 vic­tory, their fourth of the season. 
When Paterno was asked following the game if he thought Ohio State was un­derrated, he said, "I do. I thought last year when we played them (and lost 28-25) they should have been No. 1. I don't know what it takes to get somebody outside the state of Florida to be No.1." 
Ohio State coach John Cooper's reply: "I don't know if we're better than Florida and Florida State (which was ranked second last week), but if we keep playing like this, we have to move up. I thought this one was going to be a nail-biter." 
The margin of victory against the Nittany Lions, who were ranked fourth going into the game but have fallen to No. 10, undoubtedly caused many voters to move the Buckeyes up and give them 24 first-place votes, 23 more than last week. 
The defeat was the worst for Penn State since they lost 44-7 against Notre Dame in 1984 and was Ohio State's second straight triumph over a highly ranked team. The then-No. 4 Buckeyes defeated the fifth-ranked Irish 29-16 at Notre Dame one week earlier. 
Penn State (5-1 overall, 1-1 Big Ten Conference) also was the highest-ranked team Ohio State has beaten since knocking Iowa from the poll's No. 1 spot in 1985 at Ohio Stadium.lt wasn't supposed to be this easy for the Buckeyes or their starting quar­terback, Stanley Jackson. 
In his fourth game as a starter, Jackson completed 11 of 22 pass attempts for 169 yards and two touchdowns, and ran for 53 yards on eight carries. 
TEAM RECORD  POINTS PREVIOUS  
1 . Florida (38)  5-0  1643  1  
2. Ohio St. (24)  4-0  1609  3  
3. Florida St. ( 4)  4-0  1557  2  
4. Arizona St. ( 1 )  5-0  1471  5  
5. Nebraska  3-1  1374  7  
6. Miami  4-0  1312  8  
7. Tennessee  3-1  1243  9  
8. Alabama  5-0  1052  13  
9. Colorado  3-1  1019  10  
10. Penn St.  5-1  995  4  
11. Notre Dame  3-1  988  11  
12. LSU  4-0  977  14  
13. North Carolina  4-1  910  15  
14. Michigan  4-1  863  6  
15. Northwestern  4-1  743  22  
16. Washington  3-1  680  18  
17. West Virginia  6-0  618  19  
18. Auburn  4-1  483  20  
19. Brigham Young  5-1  348  21  
20. Virginia  4-1  339  12  
21. California  5-0  322  
22. Kansas St.  4-1  281  16  
23. Georgia Tech  4-1  206  
24. Wyoming  6-0  185  25  
25. Texas  3-2  ·162  23  


Others receiving votes: Utah 125, Kansas 70, East Carolina 42, Southern Mississippi 40, Virginia Tech 35, Southern California 33, Iowa 12, Wisconsin 12, Syracuse 10, Washington St. 8, Georgia 6, Texas A&M 1, Texas Tech 1. 
The Observer/ Sue O'Kaln 


Monday, October 7, I996 
The Observer • SPORTS page IS 



Winless Falcons give Bettis looks to roll past Chiefs Lions a late-game scare 
By DOUG TUCKER 
Associated Pross Writer 
KANSAS CITY, Mo. 

They remember Jerome Bettis in Kansas City. Do they ever. 
The Chiefs were 3-0 a couple of' years ago when Bettis accompanied Los Angeles to Arrowhead Stadium and rushml 35 times for 132 yards, keying a 16-0 Hams win that turned out to be a pivotal loss for the Chiefs that year. 
"lie whipped up on us pretty good," said cornerback Dale Carter. 
Now Bettis is back with a better team, leading the Pittsburgh Steelers (3-1) into Arrowhead for tlw Chiefs' only Monday night home game. D1wisi ng a defensive game plan was a snap. All the Chiefs had to do was dust off the lilm of his last visit and ponder what another huge day for the big man might mean. 
"If we stop him, we have a real good cham~e of winning," Carter said. "If we don't, if we just let him keep running north and south instead of turning him east and west, then we eould be in for anotll­er long day like the last time lw was here." 
Stopping the 245-pound Bettis will be no easy thing for the Chiefs (4-1). whose own running game has dropped off from last season. 
lie's the AFC's second-lead­ing rusher with 421 yards, averaging 5 yards a pop and running confidently behind a lirst-rate line. 
"They have good receivers, guys who can make plays," safety Brian Washington said. "But I don't think Pittsburgh's philosophy is to put it on the receivers. Their philosophy is run the ball, run the ball, run the ball, and play tight defense." 
Bettis, too, recalls his last trip to town. 
"It wasn't too bad," said the four-year veteran, who has flourished since the Steelers acquired him from the Rams. "I must say I had a pretty good game." 
Until he ran for 116 yards against Baltimore on Sept. 8, Bettis had gone 27 straight games without 100. But in the Steelers' 30-16 victory over Houston last week, he went over 1 00 for the third straight outing. 
"!lis career has been resur­rected," Washington said. 
"I have a good offensive line and they're doing things to keep me from taking big hits," Bettis said. "They're keeping those big defensive linemen off me. All I'm doing is running into the safeties. It's an easier hit when you run into the safeties as opposed to getting hit by those big linemen." 

As a safety who knows his limitations, Washington can appreciate what Bettis is say­ing. 
"It's going to be a long night for any secondary when the ball is breaking through the line of scrimmage and that guy's getting 7-8 yards a carry," Washington said. 
"Maybe we can get in there before he gets into the sec­ondary. That's the best thing you can do with a big back like that, get him before he gets started. Once he gets started, he's definitely a load to bring down." 
While the Chiefs figure Bettis is playing as well as he did in 1994, Bettis credits the Chiefs with getting better. 
"Back then they had just changed their defense and it was a learning period for them," he said. "Now they're really comfortable with their defense and they're very aggressive. 
"I think it's pretty much going to be up to my offensive line. If they control the line of scrimmage, then we're going to be in for a big day. If we have problems controlling the line of scrimmage, it's going to be really rough for us to run the ball." 
By HARRY ATKINS 
Associated Press Writer 
PONTIAC, Mich. 
It was the kind of game the Detroit Lions frequently squan­der, and they almost did. 
Scott Mitchell ran for one touchdown and passed for three more, staking Detroit to a 28-0 halftime lead. Still, the Lions needed to hold off the winless Atlanta Falcons to win 28-24 Sunday. 
The loss doomed the Falcons to the fourth 0-5 start in club history. But they didn't go down without a fight. The Lions (4-2) have won 10 straight and 15 of 16 at the Silverdome . 
Atlanta, 2-6 on the road last season, is 0-3 outside Georgia Dome in 1996. 
Jamal Anderson brought the Falcons b{lck with three touch­downs-on runs of 9, 5 and 14 yards and Morten Andersen's 4 7 -yard field goal with 5:57 left in the game had the 58,666 fans booing the home team. 
Mitchell, who completed 20 of 37 passes for 276 yards without an interception, finally got the Lions' offense back on track. 
Mixing passes to Johnnie Morton and Herman Moore with runs by Barry Sanders, the Lions drove from their own 20 to the Atlanta 1. From there, Mitchell dropped to his 
knee three times, and time ran out. 
Bobby IIebert, making his second start in place of sus­pended JeiT George, completed 18 of 36 passes for 180 yards. 
But his lone interception, by Ryan McNeil in the end zone with 10:44 left in the fourth quarter, might have cost the Falcons their chance for the best comeback in club history. Atlanta twice has overcome 21­point deficits for victories. 
Moore, who went into the weekend as the NFL's leading receiver, had three receptions for 107 yards, including touch­down catches of 25 and 50 yards. 
Mitchell scored the only TD of the first quarter on a 2-yard sneak. He tossed a 9-yard scor­ing pass to Brett Perriman 1:17 into the second period, and the two TO pitches to Moore made it 28-0 with 1:57 left in the half. 
That's when the Atlanta comeback began. IIebert need­ed only 1:50 to drive the Falcons 81 yards for Anderson's first TD just before halftime. 
Anderson, who rushed 16 times for 103 yards, scored his third TO as time expired in the third quarter. 
Sanders rushed 26 times for 86 yards and Perriman finished with seven catches for 84 yards for Detroit. 

Summer Engineering Program Foreign Study in London, England 
INFORMATION MEETING: 
Wednesday, October 9, 1996 Room 356 Fitzpatrick Hall 7:00p.m. 

ALL ENGINEERING STUDENTS WELC 

Duke 
continued from page 16 
Cindy Daws sent a pass sailing into the goalbox. Sophomore Monica Gerardo beat out the Blue Devil keeper, and nailed the shot in. Finally this gave thn Irish the lead, 1-0. 
Thn Irish dominated the sec­ond half. allowing the Blue lkvils to get ofT only one shot. Notre Dame manag1~d to rip-ofT ten shots in the second half. StreiiTer made the second goal for the Irish with lifteen min­utes remaining in the game. A rnhound trickled out of thn goal arna, and from the top of the left side of the box, she buried it in the back of the net. Sophomore Ilolly Manthei initi­ated the play, and Daws chalked up the assist. 
"Coach was right when he said we were tired" said Daws, "But that was no excuse for us to come out and play as non­challantly as we did." 
The play of the Blue Devil keeper. Piper, kept the game close, as she made seven spec­tacular saves. She stretched out and got her hands on sophomore Shannon Boxx's blast from just outside the goal­box. 
"It was fun to show people what we have, because we have not had an opportunity like that," said Streiffer about the weekend. "We still have a lot to look forward to, and we are going to start to focus on next week." 
StreiiTer was named the MVP, and four of her teammates were recognized. The entire defensive line, Grubb, senior Kate Fisher, and junior Kate Sobrero. And Daws was recog­nized for her play in the mid­dle. 

"It can't be anything but an honor when you are playing with people like this," said Streiffer about being rec­ognized. 
lhnkPlAdidasWOI'Ilf".ll'S S<:x::c.er'Classict'·
~,::::·«:·····. ... .. . ''· 
Notre Dame All-Tournament Team 
Senior Cindy Daws (MF) Freshman Jen Grubb (D) Junior Kate Sobrero (D) Senior Kate Fisher (D) 
Notre Dame Tournament MVP FreshmanJermy Streiffer(MF) 
The Ob!.crvcr/Suc O'Kain 

Pacers welcome Dampier 
Associated Press 
CHAPEL HILL, N.C. 
When Erick Dampier was available at the No. 10 pick in last summer's NBA draft, the Indiana Pacers were surprised. After all, here was a 6-foot-11, 265-pound center who had been an honorable mention All-American his sophomore and junior seasons. 
So the Pacers, who had the 10th pick after a trade with Denver, jumped at the op­portunity. 
Six days into their training camp here at the University of North Carolina, the Pacers are jumping for joy. 
''I've always been high on him, but he's more than I even anticipated," said Pacers coach 
Larry Brown. "lie's got unlimited potential. lie's got a chance, I think, to be great." 
Dampier, who made himself eligible for the draft after his junior season at Mississippi State, has come to camp as a rookie, but has impressed coaches and teammates with his no-nonsense approach and solid work ethic. 
"So far, everything is going great," said Dampier. "I've got a lot to learn and I understand that. Plus, the transition from college to pros is pretty big. The players here are bigger, stronger and faster and I still don't know what it's going to be like playing 82 games when I'm used to 30." 

page 16 The Observer • SPORTS Monday, October 7, 1 'N6 


Carolina 
continued from page 20 
Monica Gerardo and Tar Heel junior Staci Wilson never mate­rialized. Wilson was reassigned to senior forward and Irish scor­ing threat Amy VanLaecke. The real contest of the evening came in the pairing of Notre Dame junior Holly Manthei and North Carolina sophomore Tiffany Roberts. Roberts and Manthei were teammates on the U.S. na­tional team. "(The match-up) was a battle the whole game," noted Peturcelli. 
The well anticipated match-up between Tar Heel sensation, sophomore Cindy Parlow, and Irish captain, senior Cindy Daws, wasn't even a contest. Daws dominated Parlow in ball control, and Parlow could not penetrate Daws' defense. Parlow saw limited playing time, and seemed a bit sluggish throughout the entire game. 
Due to Daws' domination, the Tar Heels moved Parlow up front. Senior Kate Fisher silenced Parlow there. "The big key was when they pushed Cindy Parlow up front. I was concerned," said Petrucelli. "Kate did a great job marking her, and kept her out of the game. And a couple of times, she stopped her on one on one situations." 
At the close of the second half, the game still remained tied and headed into two fifteen minute overtimes. Three minutes into the first overtime period, Streiffer struck again. Daws knocked a pass into the box, when a blazing Streiffer beat out Tar Heel goalkeeper Overgaard and knocked in the game-winning goal. 
In the process of scoring, Streiffer and Overgaard collid­ed, causing Overgaard to sus­tain a concussion. The Irish still had to battle the Tar Heels for the twelve remaining minutes in the first overtime, and for another fifteen in the second 

overtime. Heel head coach Anson Tar Heel forward Keller stat­Dorrance. "A program like 
Respect
ed, "They absolutely came at us Notre Dame, which has had an no-fear." excellent succession of recruit­
continued from page 20
The final 27 minutes were an ing classes, is an outstanding ongoing battle, but the Irish still team." 
it take for the Irish to gain the dominated. Notre Dame held Keller agreed. "Right now, I 
respect they so dutifully
North Carolina to three shots. would say there is a team better deserve? 
For the first time in history, than North Carolina" Many of the reporters tossed North Carolina suffered back-to­The Irish tried to remain 
out numerous question
hack losses to the same team, as somewhat humble and focused 
revolving around respect.
they were handed just their after the victory. "We are excit­Was the win a fluke, ques­
fourth loss in eleven years. ed about the win," said 
tioned many of the reporters?
North Carolina fell to 8-1, while Petrucelli about the game. "But Who would take the title in 
Notre Dame remained unde­we still have not won the nation­
the end? Granted, North 
feated at 11-0. al championship, and that is our Carolina was the perennial"Parity had arrived," said Tar goal." 
soccer powerhouse. For the past eleven years the Tar Heels have not truly been challenged by any other team in the nation. They boast a nine year stint as NCAA champions. 
Even after the win on Friday night, the Irish still felt as though they would not be given the respect they deserve. "I almost would not be surprised if we did not get the number one ranking after this weekend," said captain Cindy Daws. 
While the Tar Heels have been recognized as the team to beat in each of the last eleven years, the Irish have enjoyed success as of late. North Carolina got its first taste of the young Notre Dame team in 1993, at the Challenge Classic in Houston, Texas. They handed the Irish a 3-0 defeat. One year later at the same tournament, the Irish ended the Tar Heel's 92 game winning streak, tying them, 0-0. In the NCAA championship that same year the Tar Heels manhandled the Irish, 5-0. Last year, the two met yet again in the Challenge Classic in Houston, and the Tar Heels were victorious but this time the score was only 2­
0. Times started to change, and in the NCAA semifinals, Notre Dame beat North Carolina, 1-0. The rivalry continued this past weekend, as the Irish ventured to North Carolina. When Notre Dame defeated UNC, they thought that the soccer world would realize that they are just as strong, if not better than North Carolina. Apparently, it is not enough. 

"The Carolina fans will always be a bit slow with their acceptance," said sophomore Holly Manthei. "With this win, it was not a fluke, hands down we were the better team on the field that day." 
At least it appears that cer­tain programs are gaining ground and at a much quicker pace. UNC head coach Anson Dorrance acknowledged that the Notre Dame program is one of the strongest, and that is due to the successful recruiting. The Irish have one of the most talented group of freshman in the nation. Freshman Jenny Streiffer is currently ranked as the best freshman in the nation. Streiffer is the leading scorer for the team. She responded that her efforts against the Tar Heels were to help the team gain the respect they deserve. "It made everybody so angry about the way the players were treated last year, " said Streiffer. "I just wanted to help them out and help them get the respect back." 
Freshman Jen Grubb is ranked as the third best in the nation. Currently the seventh ranked freshman is Jenny !left. Heft currently is in a reserve role for the Irish. Freshmen Kara Brown and freshman Mary Boerner are respectfully ranked No. 32 and No. 37. 
In a quick eight years, the women's soccer program has developed into one of the top in the nation. The Irish have paid their dues, and it is time for them to get in the spotlight and get the attention they rightfully deserve. Isn't time for the Tar Heels to pass on the torch and recognize that there are better teams out there. 



Blue Devils unable to shut down potent offense 
By KATHLEEN LOPEZ Spans Writer 
Coming off a big victory for any team is rough. The women's soccer team had that exact problem this weekend. After capturing a win over North Carolina, Notre Dame had to play another tough team the following day. 
It took a while for the Irish to get warmed up, but they suc­cessfully defeated the Duke Blue Devils in their final game at the Duke Addidas Women's Soccer Classic, 2-0. 
"Anytime you have a chance 

LONDON $275 
Paris $233 Quito $288 Santiago $438 Tokyo $364 Hong Kong $434 
fAIIES AilE EACH WAY FROM INDIANAPOliS lASED ON A ROUNDTRIP P\JIICHASE. f.MES DO NOT INCLUDE FEDERAl TAXES OR PfC5 
TOTAUNG IETWEEN $3-$45, DEP£HOING ON OE5nNATION OA O£PARME CHAAGES PAlO OIIIECTU TO FO«EIGN GOVERNMENTS. 

[ij.iil.fijII Travel~ 
National Reservation Center 
1-800-2-COUNCIL 
( 1-800-226-8624) 
http:llwww.ciee.org!truvel.hbn 


EUROPASS FROM $210 

to play what will be the top team in the country, on your home turf you are excited," said Duke head coach Bill Hempen about his team's first half effort. "They were still shaking off some of the effects of playing overtime game 24 hours ago. They showed their championship mentality and came through in the clutch." 


"The game the other night took a lot out of us," said Manthei. "Both physically and emotionally it was a tough game for us. We would have liked to come into this game on that emotionally high level as the North Carolina game was really hard to do." 
The Irish suffered a bit of a scare, because at halftime they were still tied with the Blue Devils, 0-0. After the relatively quiet first half, the team was fired up for the second half. They surged forward, creating many more scoring opportuni­ties. ·At one point, freshman Jen Grubb took a shot from out­side the penalty box, and drilled the crossbar. The rebound trickled out and anoth­er Irish player pounded it in. Blue Devil goalkeeper, sopho­more Dana Piper, stopped the ball, but did not gain control. Freshman Jenny Streiffer nailed the ball, but Duke junior Lauren Cyran made a coura­geous back line save. 
Just minutes later, senior 
see DUKE I page #15 









Law Fair 
Wednesday, October 9 10:00--2:00 p.m. 
Center for Continuing Education · (Basement) 
Representatt from approximately 60 law schools will be available to ans,ver questions and to distribute application materials and bulletins. 
Sponsored by the Notre Dame Prelaw Society 


-~------------~-------------­
..-----------­
Monday, October 7, 1996 
• MEN's SOCCER 

Away-game struggles plague Irish no longer 
By BRIAN REINTHALER 
Sports Writer 
Much is said about home 
field advantage in collegiate 
soccer. 
Variablos such as the size and condition of difl'orent fields and homo crowd support often make it difficult for teams to play play woll on the road. .lust ask last yoar's men's soc­cor team. 
l>ospito an almost perfect home record, the I995 Irish finished undor .500 overall and 4-7 in the Big East. That is what happens when a team fails to win one game away from tlwir horne finld. Having tho ability to win on the road is orw of tho factors that sopa­rates good teams from rrwdiocro orws. 
That is why tho outlook for the I 1JIJ6 Irish squad is so promising. 
On Satuday evening, Notre Dame travnled to Syracuse for tlwir most important road gamo of tlw season to date. Whnn all was said and done, the Irish had improved to 4-0-2 in tho Big East and 2-0 in eon­for«HWI~ road gamos with a 1-0 dnfoat of tho Orangemen. 
"It (the Syracuse game) was critical for us." said Irish head roach Mike Borticelli. "That win took a lot of prnssure off 
us... 
Oncn again, sonior and snc­ond-yoar captain Tony Capasso provid1~d thn ofl1'cnse that pro­pellod Notre Dame to victory. For the second time in as many games, Capasso was responsi­ble for the game-winning goal. In the two games, the midfield­er eompiled eight points and figured in every Irish goal. 
"It was a quality play by Capasso," said Berticelli of the goal. "There's no question he has definitely stepped up to the level you would like to expect of a senior eaptain." 
Also contributing on offense for the seeond straight game were Ryan Turner and Konstantin Koloskov. Each assisted on Capasso's goal at 
Syracuse  and  tallied  in  
Tuesday's  win  at  Western  
Michigan.  

On Saturday, the Irish dofense turned in its first solid performance since the depar­ture of tri-eaptain Brian Engessor due to a broken leg. The gamo marked the sixth shutout of the season for Notre Dame, but was also the first game in which the opposition was held to less than two goals since Engesser's injury. 
"(Peter) Gansler has also stepped up," said Berticelli of his sonior defender and cap­tain. "llis experience and leadership in the back has beon vory important for us." 
The Blue and Gold are now 7-2-2 and play their next two matches at horne this weokend. They face Western Illinois on friday and host Big East rival Pittsburgh on Sunday. 

--------, 
' 

The Observer/Mike Ruma 

Senior defender and captain Peter Gansler (left) is one of several Irish players who have stepped up their 
play as a result of team injuries . 
• SAINT MARY's SOCCER 

Belles' confidence builds 

By ANGELA OLSEN S.1inr Mary's Spurrs Editor 
The winning attitude that Saint Mary's soccer c:oad1 Bob Sharp knew his players had was in full form on Thursday. After a disappointing loss last Tunsday against Kalamazoo the Belles were looking for a win when they faced ofT a~ainst Manchester at home. 
With a strong defensive performance, the Saint Mary's soccer team was able to shut out Manchester College l-0 . The Belles improved thoir rceord to 3-8-1. Senior .folic Pokorny scored the goal for Saint Mary's, 
The Belle's remained strong throughout game by being aggressive and playing hard offensive· ly. "We dominated thEl game," said junior sweeper Keary Sullivan. 
Sophomore goalie Jo Wagner had three saves for the day and attributed this low number to the dominant defensive play of the Belles. "My.· defense did a good job in dominating the ball when it came Into our third of the field," said Wagner. 
The Belles next game is Thursday against Calvin College. 
V-Ball 
continued from page 18 
players," Brown complimented. 
Briggs was the star of the weekend as she topped a ca­reer high 16 kill pcrformanco on Friday with a 21 kill show­ing on Sunday. 
"JB played very well for us," Brown stated. "She had a real­ly good week of practice." 
Setter Jaime Lee also gave her compliments to Briggs. 
"JB has been our go-to per­son this year, her hits have been really terminating and 


Goldman, Sachs, & Co. 
invites University of Notre Dame undergraduates to an information session to explore opportunities in the 
Investment Banking Division 
Monday, October 14, 1996 

The Morris Inn  
The Notre Dame Room 8:00p.m.  GoldmanSaells  
casual attire  

she can hit from everywhere. 
She is a really easy person to 
set for and she has done a 
great job switching from mid­
dle blocker." 
Briggs gives her sottcr some 
credit for her sueeoss. 
"I just told .Jaimie how I 
wanted it and she just put it up 
thcro beautifully. The ball 
hung thcro fur so long, all I 
had to do was hit it." 
Although the Irish learned 
that they had the ability to dig 
themselves out of a hole, thoy 
are still concerned as to why 
they were in that hole. 
"I think this can be kind of a 
stepping stone for us as a 
team," Lee explained. "Wo 
came out flat and made some 
mistakes. I don't know why we 
have come out flat, maybe it is 
because of the injuries and all 
the changing of the lineup, but 
I am not sure what is wrong." 
Coach Brown has many of the same feelings after the Irish came out flat against Ball State and then against Villanova. 
"We still have a long ways to go to where we want to be at the end of the season. We need to improve a lot. I thought we have already had a couple of wake up calls, so I guess we will take the positives out of this match and go from there." 
Briggs also expressed her concern and bewilderment at the problems the Irish have had. 
"I think we have been strug­gling all season long. We have so much individual talent and coaching talent, but I don't know why things haven't clicked. We haven't played up to our potential yet, but we are going to find that missing ele­ment and things will start to click." 

r-~--­
page 18 The Observer • SPORTS Monday, October 7, 1996 
• VOLLEYBALL 



Irish volleyball team chalks up Big East victories 
ByJOECAVATO 
SportS Writer 
After cruising by Georgetown in conference champion fash­ion, last year's Beasts of the Big East were tamed a bit on Sunday, when Villanova gave the Notre Dame volleyball team quite a scare. 
The Irish (10-4, 2-0 Big East) opened conference play much like they did a year ago with a sweep over Georgetown Friday night 15-8, 15-6, 15-9. Head coach Debbie Brown received outstanding play from senior hitter Jen Briggs to triumph over the Hoyas 15-8, 15-6, 15­
9. Brown rested one of their top hitters and the nation's leading ace leader Angie Harris due to continuing tendonitis in her right knee. 
Briggs did more than simply fill in for the very potent Harris, she led the Irish in kills with 16 and an incredible .500 hitting percentage on 26 total attacks. Captain Jenny Birkner chipped in 12 kills of her own to complement her .391 hitting percentage as the Irish domi­nated the Hoyas en route to their first Big East victory of the season. 
But the Villanova Wildcats were set to prove that the Irish would not walk through the conference this season as they took the first two sets 15-9, 15­
13. The Irish have won all 15 of their matches in the confer­ence and had previously only lost one set to Big East foes. 

The home team had leads in both games one (7-1) and two (7-4) but failed to capitalize on their opportunities to win. 
"I thought we were serving very tentatively which allowed them to pass well," commented Brown. "We also failed to capi­talize on our opportunities. I think that part of losing those leads was due to a lack of con­centration, I can't point to one thing, but I don't think we take Big East games as seriously as we should." 
Villanova was led by Megan O'Brien who had 19 kills and Stacy Evans who did it all for her squad. Evans, a member of the all Big East team a year ago, racked up 17 kills, 20 dig, and 7 total blocks in hopes of pulling of an upset. 
Brown was hoping to give Harris another day off against the Wildcats, but Brown was forced to put Harris into the lineup as the Irish were staring defeat in the eyes. 
"I didn't start Angie, but she has such tremendous firepower and I was not going to lose the match with her on the bench," expressed Brown. 
Harris came off the bench to score 11 kills and 10 digs to help the Irish turn back the Wildcats. 
The turning point in the match was delivered from Harris' replacement, Jen Briggs, as she stepped to the service line with her team trail-

r::.anrnoatrm•n and Villanova. 
ing 7-9. The Irish rallied behind the strong service of Briggs to push the score to 14­9, before Birkner served out the match. 
Down 7-9, middle blocker Lindsay Treadwell and Harris teamed up for two blocks in a row to knot things up at nine a piece. The 'Cats made some technical mistakes that the Irish took advantage of to get back into the match. 
The Domers dug themselves out of another hole in game four as they were down 4-9 and junior setter Jaimie Lee picked up her serving. Treadwell got two of her 13 kills in a run in which the Irish pulled within two of the 'Cats. 
Villanova was just three points from victory at 12-10, but again Brown's squad rallied for five straight points behind the serve of Lee. Birkner and Treadwell clinched the last two points for the Irish with a kill and block. 
In the rally point scoring of the deciding game five, the 'Cats pushed ahead to a 4-1 lead. The home team clawed their way back into a 9-9 tie. Things remained close as the teams continued to side out each other and the score was 12-12. 
Harris broke the deadlock with a tip. Then 6-4 freshman Mary Leffers teamed up with Harris and then with Lee to close out the match. Leffers bounced back from a two kill performance on Friday to have 14 kills on a .379 hitting per­centage along with three aces against the Wildcats. 
Leffers rotated with fellow freshman Mandi Powell to take advantage of Powell's defense and passing. 
"Powell did a good job for us, she is a good passer which took some pressure off the other 
see V-BALL I page 17 




Tuesday, October 8™ Notre Dame Room 
LaFortune Student Center 12:00 -2:00 p.m. 
Bring your lunch, listen, and relax 
Broadway Christian Church 1412 S. Carroll St. 7:00 p.m. Tickets: $3.00 (available at the door) 
All proceeds benefit the Center for the Homeless 
"'U'~~~.~~~~~<Utt~u~ «4-t6 de ~ ~Dt de~ 4fti'Ut· ~U I'He44a<;e ~ c.taiUf ~de 
~  eu«i de~~ d«t k  fud/4  ~  t¥1 ~  ~ ta4(e,  HIUd«<d dd(., eu«i  
~...  -'8~~  
Sponsored by: The Center for Social Concerns  



MIKE PETERS 
MOTHER GOOSE & GRIMM 

DILBERT SCOTT ADAMS 
38 Singer Midlerbanks of the 42 Empty talk
Nile" speaker 45 Loner

28 Linguine, e.g. Answers to any three clues in this puzzle 49 Give birth, as a 
are available by touch-tone phone: knock 1-900-420-5656 (75ft per minute).
sheep 

30 TV soldiers of 51 U.S.N.A. grad Annual subscriptions are available for the fortune, with 53 Beverly Hills' best of Sunday crosswords from the last "the" Rodeo--50 years: (800) 762-1665. 
Do you have a disciplinary hearing with Residence Life? 
Sh1deV\t C\overV\meV\t has traiV\ed aV\d e;xperieV\ced staff members to assist ):'OIA with ):'OlAf"' heariV\g with the 
Office of ResideV\ce Life.  We are here to help ):'OIA before1  d1..1riV\g aV\d after ):'OlAf"' discipliV\ary proceediV\gs.  
IF YOU NEED ASSISTANCE CALL 631-4553 OR 631-7668  
Ryan Mcinerney  jennifer Dovidio  
judicial Council President  judicial Council Vice President  
UNIVERSITY  Of  NOTRF.  DAME  All information is strictly confidential  
Srunf.NT  C.ov••Nu~Nl  

I'VE NEVERTHE.lf\ CORPORATE l THINK I'll5EEN A.

CULTURE 15 f.>.. C>IT 

CAll YOU
PIERCED
DIFFERENT FROI'\ 

OURS. TIW TO BE FLEXIBLE..  ~ ,.  13P-AIN eEFOR.L  "l"\l5TER. CONSERVATIVE.:'  
~  
~  
c  
::l......  
&7 Fixed fee  
68 Church song  
&9 I came: Lat.  
10 Soup pods  
71 Parenthetical  
remark  
72 A. C./D.C. power  
73 Classmate  
DOWN  
1 Quarrel  
2Verdant  
Jlndy 500's  
Luyendyk  
4 Simon &  
Garfunkel hit  
5 Picnic quaff  
& Bungle  
7 Essence  
a Made clothes  
91955 Oscar  
actress  
10 Kind of salad  
11 Head's  
opposite  
12--time  
(never)  
13 "--we forget"  31 Matisse  55 Madame  &1 Autumn tool  
19 Regarding  subjects  Bovary  62 French 101  
21 Russian space  33 Lake of the  56 Partner of cons  verb  
station  Ozarks' river  57 Italian wine  63 Vintage  
25 Popular  34 Kind of eclipse  center  &SCiub- 
Japanese beer  35 Lechers' looks  59 Daredevil  66 Okla.-to-Ky.  
-=+:::+=+:0+::-1 27 "Allegory on the Knievel direction


MIXED MEDIA JACK OHMAN YOUR HOROSCOPE JEANE DIXON 
YOU'Ll HEI>.O OUR TECHNOLOGY ALLV\NC.E WIT~ f.>.. 51'\AlL 5ILIC.ON VALLE.Y 
START-UP. 
HAl'I'\' IIJRTHDA Y! IN THE NEXT YEAR OF YOUR LIFE: Record profits or a tinancial wind­fall will inspire you to be more dar­ing. End a relaiionship that is going nowhere. Making new, less intense friends will help you relax. The signing of a contract in December or January could rut you on easy street. Someone suggests a move to another city or state is rossible. Think twice before pulling ur stakes, especially if you have school-age children. Your romantic partner wants to srcml more time alone with you. 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: celli>t Yo-Yo Ma, actress June Allyson, Archhishor Desmond Tutu, su>pense author Helen Macinnes. 
ARIES !March 21-April 19): Although you pride yourself on being self-sufticient. let others heir you for a change. A part-time busi­ness need> constant attention if it is to grow. 
TAURUS (Arril 20-May 20): Protect your reputation by being dis­creet. Although your co-workers try your patience, you will emerge on top. Be creative when dealing with an emotionally draining situation. 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Study a problem analytically and you will find a solution. Seek more infor­mation regarding a career change. Staying silent about >omething you dislike would be a mistake. 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): A co-worker has big rians for you. Go ahead and make intelligent conces­sions. An estranged relative is ready to reconcile. Be friendly, but avoid making promises. 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Your job performance is being evaluated. Push yourself to accomplish more than your colleagues. A change in personnel could work to your advantage. 
II OF INTEREST
·; 
A Pro-Life Rosary will be said at 6:45 p.m. tonight at the Grotto. The Rosary is sponsored by N.D. Hight to Life, Children of Many, Campus Ministry and Knights of the Immaculata. 
"The 1996 Elections and the Common Good: International Issues" will be the topic of n lecture and discussion led by Professors Alan Dowty, Martha Merritt, and Peter Walsh on Monday October 7, from 
-

4 to 5 p.m. in the auditorium of the Center l.'or Continuing Education. 
• MENUt! 
Notre Dame 
North South Chicken Patties Yankee Pot Roast Taco Bar Baked Sole Jardiniere Stir-fried vegetables Potato Pancakes Pepperoni Pizza Turkey/broccoli bake 
·· Saint Maey's 
New England Boiled Dinner Pasta Primavera Buffalo Chicken Breast Sandwich 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
Wanted: Reporters, photographers and editors. Join The Observer staff. 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): A rroject will be held up unle" you take the initiative. Sho\\Ta'e your talents to best advantage. Refuse to let one disarrointing relationship sour you on love. 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-Ckt. 22L Oth­ers know when you are ribbing. Be truthful even if you fear orpnsition. Romantic revelations put you on the srot. A child's comrlainl about a teacher is justitied. 
SCOIH'IO (Oct. 2J-Nov. 21 l: Keep on riugging away even il everyone else seems to have slowed down. Update your resume. A romantic drought is about to end. Finish current assignmenh before starting new ones. 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21 ): A new project takes more time than estimated. Business travel is hectic but rewarding. Keep you1 financial options open. A promotion or relocation could be delayed. Time is on your side where romance is concerned. 
CAPRICORN 1 Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Creative ventures will bnng both money and fame. Thank a surerb teacher or mentor. A check finally arrives. Major hou,ehold arriiances arc good inve>tments. Romance turns a corner. You find yourself walking on air' 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Fcb. 1!\): Work pressures mount. Face any problems head-on or tension will grow. A second income will help relieve tinancial worries. If a current romance is not what you really want, look around. Confide in friends. 
PISCES !Feb. 19-Murch 20): 
Even if t'Ontroversy surrounds you. 
it will only imrrove your perfor­
mance. Be patient with both teen· 
agers and clients. A soft voice and 
gentle manner will have greater 
impact than harsh words or an ulti· 
matum. 


CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 1 Shut noisily 5 Trouser parts 9lridium, e.g. 14 Sound of contentment 15 Cleveland's lake 1& Playing marble 11 Sale stipulation 18 Bumbling Carol Burnett role 20 Prefix with meter 22 Cumberland R. locale 23 Real estate unit 24 Sty sound 2& Pharmacist's weight 28Nitwit 32 Sign up 
3& Opposer 37 Trounce 39 Edition 40W.W.II gun 41 Downy duck 43 It grows from 
the neck 44 Bedevil 4& Neighbor of 
Belg. 47 Lab culture 48 National Guard 
building so Three Rivers 
Stadium team 52 Lack 54 1169 erupter 55 Clean air grp. 58 Stallion's mate 60 Fish hawk 64 Greer Garson 
Oscar-winning role 

Monday, October 7, 1996 The Observer • TODAY page 19 
.. 


.,.. SPORTS 
page 20 Monday, October 7, 1996 
• WoMEN's SoccER 

r 
-
The Observer/Mike Ruma 
Freshman Jenny Streiffer (right) celebrates her game-winning overtime goal with senior Amy Vanlaecke over North Carolina goal­keeper Gretchen Overgaard. In a collision with Streiffer en route to the goal, Overgaard was knocked unconscious. 
.. 

North Carolina's Debbie Keller (right) attempts to elude 
Notre Dame defender Kate Sobrero. 

-


Defending champs back where they belong-at the top 
By KATHLEEN LOPEZ Sports Writer 
DUHHAM, N.C. 
Encountering the North Carolina press was quite an experience for the women's soccer team this past weekend. 
In the past, the press have not looked upon the Irish with kindness. In fact, for the first time in his­tory, the defending national champions were not the top-ranked team in the following season. 
The Irish had defeated the Tar Heels the previous night, and proved on the field who initially should have been that top team in the nation. But despite having defeated North Carolina, the reporters from a couple of North Carolina papers were still doubt­ing the strength of the Notre Dame team. What will 
U.S. national teammates Holly Manthei (center) and 

see RESPECT/ page 16 
Tiffany Roberts went head to head on Friday. 
Irish dump 'Heels as Streiffer paves way back to No. 1 
By KATHLEEN LOPEZ Sports Writer 
DUHHAM. N.C. 
Silent but deadly. There is no other way to describe Notre Dame freshman Jenny Streiffer. Streiffer is not one of the most rec­ognizable members on the women's soccer team, nor is she the most vocal. However, she definitely is one of the most talented, as she showed in the No. 1 vs. No. 2 match-up this past weekend at the Duke Addidas Women's Soccer Classic. She was the key factor in the defending national champions' win over the top-ranked North Carolina team. Due to Streiffer's incredible goals, the Irish defeated the Tar Heels 2-1 in overtime. 
"She (Streiffer) had a great game, and it is not because she scored two goals," said head coach Chris Petrucelli. "She really dictated the pace of the game by holding the ball. by play making, and by creating chances." 
Streiffer tied the game up twenty minutes into the first half. From five yards out, she knocked in a header off of sophomore Shannon Boxx's pass. In spite of a relatively unemotional first half of the season, the quiet, mild-mannered Streiffer threw her fist into the air and celebrated with a triumphant leap after her goal. The Tar Heels got their first taste of the Southerner's soccer when she burned by the keeper to chase Boxx's pass down, and tied the game at 1-1. 
"I wanted to help them (the team)," said Streiffer about her efforts. "I wanted to help them get the respect back." 
The Tar Heels had posted their first and only goal of the game at the twenty-five min­uted mark. North Carolina senior Debbie Keller angled a shot past Notre Dame goal­keeper senior Jen Henola to give the Tar Heels the lead, 1-0. Keller received the pass from freshman Laurie Schwoy ofT of a direct kick. Keller is the leading goal scorer for North Carolina. 
The Irish went into the half tied, 1-1. Notre Dame led the shot total at the half with ten shots compared to North Carolina's six. But the second half of the battle was to be a defensive one. 
The Irish dominated many of the key match­ups on the field throughout the game. The would-be volatile pairing of Irish sophomore 
see CAROLINA I page 16 

(6 
vs. Washington 

at Central Collegiate 
October 12, 1:30 p.m. 

Conference 
• Volleyball team posts Big East wins 
JE&'
at Stanford 

October 18, 7:30p.m. 
see page 18 
~ October 11, 6 p.m. 

Soccer vs. Calvin 
:.,(.., 
vs. Western Illinois 

~ October 10, 4 p.m. • Men's soccer wins at Syracuse October 11, 
~ 

Volleyball vs. Lake Forest see page 17 
at Illinois State 

October 9, 7 p.m. 
@ October 8, 7 p.m. 





