
Thursday, November 21, 1996 • Vol. XXX No. 58 THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Wadsworth: Field for new coach narrowed 
By MATTHEW LOUGHRAN 
Assistant News Editor 
Athletic Director Mike Wadsworth faces what he calls, "a nearly impossible situation," in trying to find a new head 
football~-----...,., 

coach. 
While he would not name any candidates or respond to questions about their ide n tit i e s, Wadsworth Wadsworth said that he had only two or three coaches in mind. He also said that he would decide on Holtz's successor in the next two or three weeks so that the candidate could either be on campus for or at least be able to have some part in the recruiting process, which 
begins in earnest in early December. 
"We have boiled it down to only a few candidates, and now we have to choose one that would be a perfect fit for the program," he said. Wadsworth spoke at a luncheon sponsored by the Notre Dame Club of Saint Joseph Valley. 
"With recruiting concerns and the media attention involved it is impossible to have an open search of all can­didates," Wadsworth said, indi­cating that the University began its search with a limited number of candidates. He then went on to explain the criteria that he and Father William Beauchamp, executive vice president of the University, will use to determine Holtz's suc­cessor. 
"First of all, we are looking 

see WADSWORTH I page 4 
• STUDENT SENATE 

'Liquid lunch' to be reviewed 
By MATTHEW LOUGHRAN 
Assistant News Editor 
At the end of last year, the Office of Student Activities announced the end of the "liq­
uid  lunch"  policy  at  the  
Alumni  Senior  Club  on  
Fridays.  Yesterday,  the  

Student Senate voted almost unanimously to ask the Office of Student Activities to revive the policy. 
In a 14-1 vote, the Senate passed a resolution asking, "that the policies governing the operation of Alumni Senior Club should be changed to reflect those that were in place during the 1995-1996 school year." 
The only vote against came from sophomore class presi­dent Peter Cesaro, who could not be reached for comment. 
Senior class president Bill Hammonds brought the issue to the Senate's attention. "I had become concerned when I 


The Observer/Dave Murphy 

University officials will reconsider 'liquid lunch' at Alumni Senior Club. 
heard about the change in pol­icy last year," Hammonds said. "I sent out letters at that time to all officials involved, but I received no response." 
Joe Cassidy, the director of Student Activities, said that he considered the construction of more dorms on the south side of campus as well as the addi­tion of the College of Business Administration to the area as reasons that more social space was needed on campus. "The only facility that Student Activities runs on that side of 
see SENATE I page 6 


Panel seeks to bring about understanding, support 

The Observer/Adam Andres 
Last night, panel members discussed the challenges of sharing one's 
sexual preference with family and friends. 
AIDS roundtable emphasizes risks 
By AMY SCHMIDT News Writer 
"Not teaching AIDS education is like a physics teacher not teaching the laws of gravity for fear that students will jump ofT the top of a building." 
Using this metaphor to explain the ignorance to and need for AIDS education across campus and in the South Bend community, Father Steve Newton, rector of Sorin Hall and executive direc­tor of the Life Treatment Center, joined the latest in a series of Critical Issues Roundtable Discussions sponsored by the gender studies department. 
Newton, along with AIDS educators from Notre Dame and South Bend, addressed the issue that many Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students believe that they are not at risk for HIV and AIDS. 
"People think about pregnancy more than HIV on campus," said senior Scott Baker, a peer edu­cator for AIDS Awareness. 
Baker said that the main objective of his AIDS education efforts at Notre Dame is to spread the word about risk across campus so that no one will 
see AIDS I page 6 
By DEREK BETCHER 
Assistant News Editor 
Coming out to one's family and friends is one of the most troubling experiences for a gay or lesbian. The mix of sup­port, understanding, disavow­el, and withdrawal that a fam­ily offers to a member announcing their homosexuali­ty plays a seminal role in that individual's life, according to last night's panel discussion. 
In the inaugural event for the Standing Committee On Gay and Lesbian Student Needs, last night's panel addressed homosexuality and the family. Students, faculty, and a community member combined their personal expe­riences with audience offer­ings to pioneer understanding. 
"·Whether we are gay or. straight, our purpose is to fur­ther understanding," Ann Firth, chair of the standing committee, said in her intro­duction. 
The panelists, Tony Silva, a Notre Dame senior; Carol Jones, a Saint Mary's senior; Father David Burrell, profes­sor of philosophy and theology; Paula Shannon, a Notre Dame senior; and Bill Breckbill, a Goshen resident, opened the evening by addressing the dif­ficulties they experienced when an individual comes out to their family. 
"It took me a year to get the guts up," Jones said, notiug that the time she spent strengthening her resolve was difficult for her. "I was lying a lot, but it got to the point where I didn't want to lie any­more." 
Jones told how she finally wrote her parents a letter telling them that she was a lesbian and how she then anx­iously awaited their response. Her parents' mixed reactions were similar to many other split reactions that were shared during the evening. 
"My dad called and said, 'Just so you know, I got your letter, and I know it took a lot of courage to write."' she said, noting that her mother was contrastingly silent. "The issue's been pretty dead since then," she said. 
Shannon plans on telling her 
see SUPPORT I page 4 



Olmos calls for Latino awareness 
By CHRISTOPHER SHIPLEY 
News Writer 
Edward James Olmos, esteemed actor and humanitarian, was wel­comed by the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's community with a unity clap, symbolizing Latino empowerment. He went on to speak about that very issue through the use of anecdotes and humor at Stepan Center to a sellout crowd Wednesday night. 
At the lecture, presented by the Office of Multicultural Student Affairs, Olmos was introduced by Luisa Heredia, president of La Alianza, as a "dedicated humanitari­an, and hero to the entire Latino community." 
Olmos is best known for his Emmy winning portrayal of Jamie Escalante, a Los Angeles calculus teacher who motivated his students in "Stand and Deliver." The actor has also starred in television's "Miami Vice," and the silver screen's "American Me" and "Mi Familia." 
Of the topics that Olmos addressed, violence and its affect on American communities prevailed as the press­ing issue of the night. The Chicano actor, who has been awarded five honorary doctorates in sociology and one in the humanities, based "American Me" on 18 years of research on violence in Hispanic 
communities. 
"Violence is not a social prob­lem, it is a health prob­lem. Our society is try­ing to heal ence on multicultural history, usually to disappointing results. When he asked the professors and teachers in the audience to name and describe one American hero of Chinese decent, all fell silent. 
"Ninety-seven percent of our social studies curriculum from grammar 

t h e s e -----------------------­

'Violence is not a social problem, it is a health problem.' 
Edward James Olmos 

wounds. You vaccinate against polio; you must vaccinate against violence in the same way. Violence is a learned behavior," he said. 
In addition to addressing violence, Olmos praised the efforts of our teachers, but described the current drawbacks in the education system. 
Olmos posed many questions, chal­lenging the knowledge of the audi­school to 12th grade is Anglo histo­ry," Olmos told the crowd of over 400 students, teachers, and commu­nity members. 
"I want to augment our history lessons, and be inclusive, not exclu­sive. I want to know who W.E.B. DuBois was in addition to Abraham Lincoln and George Washington." 
see OLMOS I page 6 page 2 The Observer • INSIDE Thursday, November 21, 1996 


• INSIDE COLUM~ 

A rite of 
passage 
There's a certain day in every adult's life that is usually considered a hallmark of human existenc:n, a coming of age, a symbol of finally growing up. and a night of obscene 
activitic~s. 
The 21st birthday. 
Well, today Dave 
Treacy turns 21. 
It's funny how this day 
has been so built up in 
my mind for a very long 
time. For years now, 
November 21, 199h, has 
been circled on the 
proverbial calendar. As 
of late, however. the 
countdown to 21 has 
had much less impor­
tance. Couldn't exactly tell you why. 
Granted, today is the day when alcohol 
consumption becomes legal. Today, entering 
bars and liquor stores is not something to 
feel nervous about. Today, as friends usher 
me from place to place in an effort to have 
me enjoy this festive occasion as much as 
possible, perhaps to the point where remem­
bc~ring anything that actually happens will be 
a struggle, the basic point of the day seems 
douded. 
Because, let's face facts, folks, drinking 
underage has not been a real difficult thing 
to do here at a school where binge drinking 
and studying sometimes go hand in hand. So 
that aspect of it really seems almost negligi­
ble. 
My question is, how big of a deal is it to 
reach a 21st birthday? How will my life, or 
anybody else's life when they reach the big 
two-onn, change from this day forward'? 
Does maturity all of a sudden set in? Does wisdom and fortitude become a step closer? Is "the future" not quite so far away? 
Will Nirvana be accessible to me? Nah, probably not. It's just another birth­day. 
Something inside me is telling me that this occasion isn't as important to my life as a fair number of other days that have passed. 
My first day of kindergarten, for example, probably falls into that category of special occasions. 
The day my father put a basketball hoop in my driveway comes to mind. 
The first time I held a trumpet in my hands and made a noise come out of it has lots of significance. 
The day my acceptance letter from Notre Dame arrived in the mailbox. 
December 18. 1995, the day my father passed away, has had an impact that this birthday will never reach. 
Today is not just another day in the life of Dave Treacy -that's not my point. But per­haps a sobering thought is that there have been, and will be, many more events, birth­days, and fond memories more important than the day where people try to separate me from controlling my bodily functions. 
Not to say it won't be interesting. As a matter of fact. going out tonight with my friends will probably end up as one of the most fun nights of my life. Hell, it'd better be. 
So the question is, upon waking up tomor­row morning, should anything further be expected of me than to remember to take some Advil? 
Maybe the answer is in my horoscope. I'll be sure to check it before going out. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of lhe author and not necessarily those of The Obseruer. 

• TODAY'S STAFF 
News Viewpoint Kelly Brooks Ethan Hayward Mike: Lewis Accent Sports Joey Crawford Tim McConn Graphics Lab Tech Melissa Weber 
Dave McCaffrey Production Maureen Hurley Mark DeBoy 

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is publisheJ Monday through Friday except durin~ ex;tm and vacarion periods. The Observer is a member of du: Assodatcd Press. All rcproducrion rights arc rc~ervcd. 
• WORLD AT A GLANCE 
Officer pleads innocent in spy case, gets legal help 
WASIIINGTON 

CIA officer Harold J. Nicholson plans to plead innocent to charges of spying for Hussia and today won additional court-appointed legal help to light the case. 
At a surprise hearing, U.S. Magistrate Thomas H. Jones Jr. granted the request by Nicholson's attorney, Jonathan Shapiro, to appoint an additional defense lawyer to help him. Jones also said Shapiro would be allowed to submit a request for a budget for defense investigative purposes. 
Shapiro, who was appointed to rep­resent Nicholson on Monday, is in a two-attorney law firm, and said he had never tried a spy case before. 
Shapiro asked the judge for the right to subpoena a tape-recording of a CIA polygraph examination of Nicholson and to subpoena an unidentified CIA otlicial. Both would help the defense refute a portion of the gov­ernment's case against Nicholson, Shapiro said. 
The subpoena request was dropped when Assistant 
Yeltsin: 'I'm in a fighting mood' 

MOSCOW 
In his first television appearance since heart bypass surgery, Boris Yeltsin strolled slowly arounri the grounds of the Kremlin hospital Wednesday and declared: ''I'm in a lighting mood." The brief clip showed a considerably thinner Russian presi­dent bundled up in a traditional Hussian fur hat, plaid scarf and a jack­

et to ward off the chilly November wind. He leaned slightly on the left arm of his granddaughter, Masha, and his wife Naina and younger daughter, Tatyana Dyachenko, were at his side. "I can't say I'm fully, firm­ly and strongly on my feet, but the doctors did their job," Yeltsin said on the grounds of the Kremlin hospital. The stroll was taped after Yeltsin had his stitches removed Wednesday. The chief Kremlin doctor, Sergei Mironov, said the 65-year-old Yeltsin could be released from the hospital Thursday or Friday. Yeltsin will spend several weeks recuperating at his country home outside Moscow or at a government health resort before returning to work in the Kremlin. "Now I need to train," Yeltsin said. "I need to take on more, physically and emotional­ly, to rehabilitate in full force." 
Town votes to open Klan shop 

LAURENS, S.C. 
The Redneck Shop has won permission to keep selling Confederate and Ku Klux Klan memorabilia on the town square. City Council voted 6-1 on Tuesday to reverse itself and grant a business license to the store, which has sold Klan books, T -shirts and robes. Photographs on dis­play included one of a black man with a KKK brand. Ministers and community leaders organized protests, and in July a white man angered by the store drove a van into the front window, destroying counters and dis­plays. Other people threw rocks and picketed. The license became an issue in July after the man who once ran the store, Michael Burden Jr., relinquished his per­mit. The council voted 6-0 not to give new owner John Howard a license, and he filed a lawsuit, which had not come to trial. There was no comment from Howard. He was not at Tuesday's meeting and calls to him and his lawyer were not returned today. 
• SOUTH BEND WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forcast 
AccuWeather~ forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 
., ~:,:::~ru 


'~~/'·· --~:H L ,­

Thursd~y  Q,  43  29  
Friday  ~  40  25  
Saturday  ~  37  23  
/Sunday  ~  36  26  
~·  36  24  
\  

4,~,~9,Q.Q!) ~ u 
Showers T-storms Rain Flu"ies Snow Ice Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy Vta Assoctated Press GraphtcsNet 
The spy cases 
llurold Niflwluw 'f amtt ma.rkf #u-$tCattd maJar $«:uri~· brt<WII w.'ilhlnthr CIA ~~lfU 1994. 1krou~ CMI[Nlml 
Aldrich II. Ames CIA pool 
CuuiJit'rillttlllgroctofficitJl 
Arrtstcd 
Febru(lr;r 1994 

All~ly Placed g<l\'ttnrt~(.fU stc!\'1& U\ "Jrad dmp1" amund Wa:rhingwnfor pidu~ IJ)' the KGB; met with Snvietagtnl:t 11rmmd tht 1vorfl! 
Thetlpoft 

WUd l1U!tU/iJIG f14/lt:nu. Anre.r (lnd his wifr houyf11 n t.S40,CKX? hnmt< wilh o11r papnmt; h( tarn(d about $70,000 p1r .war 
• NATIONAL WEATHER 
The AccuWeather<R>forecast for noon, Thursday, Nov. 21. 
20s Lines separate high temperature zones for the day. 
FRONTS: 
~ ........_._ ....,.ay. 
COLD WARM STATIONARY 
C 1996 AccuWeather, Inc. 

P1'6SSUrtl 
H L 

HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY 
Vt.l As60CIS/ed Press 
Atlanta  64  49  Denver  63  30  Memphis  59  40  
Baltimore  48  29  Detroil  4t  28  New York  47  35  
Boston  47  30  Houston  75  56  Philadelphia 49  31  
Chicago  43  23  Kansas City  47  28  St. Louis  45  32  
Dallas  66  45  Los Angeles 66  53  San Diego  65  60  

Harold James Nicholo;on CIA I""' 
Fonner sJation cllief 
Arrested 
NtJ\'ember /IJf)() 
Allegedly 

rur"td 0\'l!t !lw ult'nflflt) rJf CIA affittn Jrwned during thr fHBI Ill'~ )'ttlf.r; ni/J infarmmion almul 
· llu! CIA swtilm i11 Mo.rww 
ThetlpoiT 

Geu't qut.rtlmlclblt> answers i11 aroJJiint lie·dtltt'lor test fast y~ttr: C(}ff("talrd rttmera.f in hi1 t1Ji.c~ cougllt himJ)hotnl{rtlphin~ 
urretdnrllmtllfl 
That hearing also will examine whether he should be denied bail because there is a risk of flight or because lw may pose a danger to the community. 
The government also will call witnesses them, seeking to establish probable cause to believe Nicholson has committed espionage. 
Drug lord gets life in prison 
SAN DIEGO 

A crack dealer who tried to get his drug conviction overturned by claiming the CIA was involved in cocaine dealing for the benefit of the Nicaraguan Contras was sentenced to life in prison. "Freeway" Hicky Hoss was convicted in March of buying 220 pounds of cocaine for $169,000 from Oscar Danilo Blandon, a former narcotics trafficker and civilian leader of a CIA-backed guerrilla group, who also worked as a federal drug informant. Defense attorney Alan Fenster tried to usc the issue of alleged CIA involvement in crack dealing during the 1980s as a reason U.S. District Judge Marilyn L. lluff should set aside Hoss' conviction. But on Tuesday the judge refused and handed down the life snntnnee, which was mandatory because of two prior convictions. Sentencing was originally set for Sept. 13, but the judge delayed it to study the CIA allegations. "The conduct of Ross, James and Brown is not excused by any so-called tenuous tics to the CIA," Hull' said before the sentencing. "It does not give them a free pass the rest of thc~ir lives to further addict people because of something that may have happened in the early 1980s." Assistant U.S. Attorney L.J. O'Neale, used Blandon to testify against Hoss, said Tuesday there was no evidence of a CIA-drug connection. 
Clay scathes black Republican 
WASIIINGTON 

In a scathing parting shot, Hep. Bill Clay, a black Democrat from Missouri, called defeated black Hepublican Hep. Gary Franks of Connecticut a "Negro Dr. Kevorkian" bent on destroying his own race. In a six-page open letter circulated on Capitol Ilill, Clay described Franks as part of a conservative "new Negro cabal" that has undermined efforts by blacks to improve their communities and economic standing through gov­ernment programs. "His six years in Congress were highlighted by support of legislation inimical to the per­manent interest of black folk," Clay wrote. The letter lists 10 actions by Franks that Clay says hurt blacks, including testimony in a federal court against a Georgia majority black district that elected Hep. Cynthia McKinney, a black, and votes for such GOP measures as welfare overhaul, cuts in inner-city housing and cuts in summer jobs for youth. 
U.S. Attorney Hob Chesnut said llw government would not raise those aspects of the case at a hearing Monday to determine whether Nicholson is released on bail. 
Nicholson's formal plea of inno­cence likely would come later at an arraignment sometime aftnr a grand jury returns an indictment. 
In an interview before the hearing, Shapiro said, "We~ will be pleading not guilty and we intend to light the case very hard." 
Initially, surprised prosc~cutors feared that Jones had moved up a hearing scheduled for Monday to determine whether there~ is enough evidence to send Nicholson's case to a grand jury. 



Thursday, November 21, 1996 
The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS page 3 


Hehir urges intervention 
By DEREK BETCHER 
Assistant News Editor 
Nuclear proliferation and the interven­tion methods which seek to limit that spread have taken on a new urgency, according to Father Bryan Hehir. Hehir, 
a noted Catholic the­ologian, gave a lecture examining the setting of international poli­tics, recent non-inter­vention traditions, and proposed expansion of intervention policies. 
"There's a problem 


with world power. The Hehir military isn't clearly number one anymore, economics and politics are bigger now," Hehir said. 
In addition to noting the complete col­lapse of cold war world structure, Hehir noted an erosion of the classical Westphalian system. Traditions of sover­eignty, non-intervention, and separation of religion and state are all declining. 
"The changing structure of power makes management of military power the central question," Hehir said. 
Citing an issue central to his studies at the Harvard Divinity School, Hehir noted that a world tradition of reluctance to intervene in other countries' struggles has remained "insulated" from these world power changes. 
Hehir, who co-authored "The Challenge of Peace" (a landmark treatise on non proliferation) with Cardinal Joseph Bernardin, argued that the UN and its member nations should take a more active role in peacekeeping now that the threat of Soviet escalation has been removed. 
Hehir feels that the UN can now afford to take a far less passive stance on reducing international violence. 
"My changes would create a more interventionalist international authority," Hehir said, and curbing the spread of nuclear weapons would be the key focus of interventiion for Hehir. 
"My sense is that the proliferation question has taken the central place that the superpower face off once had. The protocol ought to be changed, but incre­mentally," he said. "There is now a need for us to recast the forms of interven­tion." 
He proceeded to explain that multilat­eral authority and enforcement would have to be carefully structured in any future intervention doctrines. Means and motivations used in action would need to be closely monitored as well. Also, Hehir stressed that remaining powers, like the United States, must take care to avoid a compromised moral baseline in all of their interventionalist dealings. 

SOUTH BEND • EAST DOWNTOWN SOUTH BEND Ironwood Circle 417 N. St. louis Blvd. 20041ronwood Circle, Suite I CaII 234·0363 273·8986 (24 hours) 
BOTH LOCATIONS CONVENIENT TO CAMPUS 

"WHERE SOUTH 
BEND MEETS NOTRE 
DAME." 


O~~\. ~ OPEN UNTIL 3:00AM 1bwbw~ ~'-1\.·_n~ ~ 
~~\_ ~ \~0 ~ TONIGHT: V ot~ EISI E'S PROMISE
~\. ~\.! ~v-ue,

\~ (.~ TOMORROW: 
FRIDAY LIQUID LUNCH 
Open at noon 
SATURDAY: 
ND vs RUTGERS GAME WATCH 
Open at noon 
SATURDAY NIGHT
SAME GREAT BAR. 
ADD NINE SAME COOL JUKE BOX. 
STILL JUST SO~ FOR APOOL GAME. 
NOW A NEW MENU! 
... 

Analysts agree GOP failed to present best candidate 
By MICHAEL LEWIS 
News Writer 

A Democratic and a Republican ana­lyst agreed that the GOP did not run their best candidate in 1996 and that the House of Representatives will prob­ably stay under Republican control. 
Mickey Edwards, a former Congressman from Oklahoma, repre­sented the conservative philosophy while New York Times writer Richard Berke took up the left in the last lecture of the College of Arts and Letters-spon­sored series on the '96 elections. Edwards mapped the Republican Party's transformation over the past half century and offered his view of the future relationship between conser­vatism and the GOP. 
"In the '50s and '60s, there was no conservative political movement in the country," Edwards said. However, since Barry Goldwater's trouncing by Lyndon Johnson in 1964, the only two Democrats to have won the White House have won by running on a rela­tively conservative platform. 
"Conservative politics will be, for sometime to come, the dominant force in American politics," Edwards said. 
While the Republican Party may look to be in trouble, he points to a thriving conservative political movement. He stated that Democrats had to move to the political right to win, while the GOP has maintained control of the Congress and of the majority of the statehouses. 
"What the future is for Republicans is going to depend a little bit on whether they learned their lessons," Edwards said. "If the Republicans can learn to believe in incremental progress, they have a good future." 
Although he represented the Democratic slant, Richard Berke agreed with Edwards about several things, including Edwards' statement that, "Bob Dole was a lousy candidate." 
Much to Berke's surprise, the 1996 presidential election turned out to be uneventful with a plethora of negative ads, no strong independent candidates, and an unpopular GOP nominee. 
"We may be in for a period of long­term Republican dominance in the House," Berke said. He believes the unpopularity of House Speaker Newt Gingrich and Bill Clinton's performance in the election created the best foresee­able opportunity for a significant Democratic victory in the Congress. 

Chinese -American Restaurant 
and Cocktail Lounge 
Lunches starting at .... $4.25 Dinners starting at .... $5.95 Banquet rooms available up to 200 



GREAT \VALL 
Bar and Restaurant open 7 days a week 130 Dixie Way N., South Bend (next to Howard Johnson) 


EXPRESS 
The place to go for ALL your NOTRE DAME sportswear & accessories! 
Now Available ­Shamrock Classic Merchandise 
Friday 12 • 9 pm

IRISH 
EXPRESS 
Saturday 8am· 9pm
HOURS 
Sunday 9am -3 pm 
LaFortune Student Center (219)631-8128 
We accept VISA, MasterCard and Discover 

----~-......,..---------,.._-----~-----~-~ ~-~~ ~-~-------, 
page 4 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, November 21, 1996 

Support 
continued from page 1 
parents about her bisexuality this Christmas, and she talked about what she anticipates from the experience. 
"My mom knows everything about me except this," Shannon said. "It'll be a process for them to work through." She also noted that she was more con­eerned about about how her "homo­phobic Texas panhandle community" would react to her family than about how her family would react to her announcement. 
"I know who I am, arid my identity is stable. I just want them to accept the fact that I like men and women," Shannon said. 
Breckbill offered his perspectives as the father of a lesbian. He didn't learn 
Wadsworth 
continued from page 1 
for someone who can reach a 
superior level of athletic 
achievement," Wadsworth 
continued. He cautioned that 
the prospective coach does not 
need to currently have a com­
parable winning percentage to 
Holtz. Wadsworth said that he 
would make the selection 
based on whether or not he 
believes the candidate is capa­
ble of achieving such a per­
centage with the resources 
available from the University. 
Wadsworth also addressed the problem of recruiting play­ers for Notre Dame. "We need someone who is willing to emb'race the academic stan­dards of the University," he said. "We also are looking for someone who will take a very active role in the lives of the players." He indicated that Notre Dame coaches have to bring in only players that will succeed at the University. 
"(The head football coach). however, has to take a person­al interest in his players," he said. While not blaming the Boston Coll~ge gambling scan­dal on head coach Dan Henning, he used it as an example of this active role. 
The final attribute the new head coach must have, accord­ing to Wadsworth, a proficien­cy for public speaking. "The coach has to be an ambas­sador for Notre Dame to the alumni clubs, media, and fans all over the world," he said. "Anyone chosen for the job would have to relish speaking in public." 
Wadsworth ended his lun­cheon speech by answering questions from members of the alumni club. The questions ranged from recent specula­tion about the possibility of Northwestern Coach Gary Barnett succeeding Holtz to how the athletic department tries to keep recruits from leaving early either for profes­sional contracts, or for other schools. 
Used, rare and 
out-of-print books 
Initial cost of $2.00 
Nationally -circulated ad .I Success rate of 5CJ>/o .I Time required: 2 months 
ERASMUS BOOKS Open noon to six Tuesday through Sunday 1027 E. Wayne South Bend, IN 46617 (219) 232-8444 
of her lesbianism until she was 29, but he remembers the moment with warm acceptance. 
"She called us into the living room and shared with us, in a direct but caring way, that she was a lesbian. It was a cherished time," Breckbill said. "She relaxed once she knew who she was." 
Silva came out to his parents over two years ago, and shared the evolu­tion of their sentiments. He explained that at first his mother cried and his father reacted with disbelief, but cur­rently, his mother advocates gay rights and his father has become more accepting. 
"It was tense," Silva said. He also told of the suddenness of divulging his sexuality to his sister. 
"I had been making small talk for an hour, and finally she said, 'So Tony, what's going on with you?' and I said, 'Carol, I'm gay."' 
Taking up the theme of sibling homo­sexuality, an audience member told of the pressures she felt as the only mem­ber of her family who knew her broth­er was gay. 
"The only way I know is because I asked," she said. "My brother told me, 'It's nice when people ask because it shows you are willing to hear their answer." 
Audience members and panelists continued to address the issues associ­ated with sharing homosexuality with family and friends. 
"I found that one of the hardest things is being in a relationship and not being able to share that with my family," Jones said. "I miss not just sharing the joy of being in one, but also the comfort that could come when the realtionship goes on the rocks." 
"That's the hardest -not being able to share such a beautiful part of my life," Shannon said. "I do want to be open and honest with my parents." 
"As a parent, I would like to suggest that people considering telling their parents keep working on it," Breckbill said, summing up the hopeful tone of the evening's discourse. "It's awkward, but parents do want to know, general­
)y. .. 
During the panel discussion, students were also invited to Parents, Family, and Friends of Lesbians and Gays meetings. 
"It's a process that takes time, and we're working together," an audience member said. The Michiana chapter of PFLAG is one of 380 national support groups for those who know gays and lesbians. The group meets the fourth Sunday of every month at Christ the King Church on Cleveland Hoad. 

Save The People You Call Up To 44%. 
For long-distance calls. Savings based on a 3-min. AT&T operator-dialed interstate call. 
~------------~~­
Thursday, November 21, 1996 The Observer • NATIONAL NEWS page 5 


Friends mourn loss of Chicago cardinal 
By SARAH NORDGREN 
Associated Press Writer 
CHICAGO Cardinal Joseph Bernardin, the son of Italian immigrants 
who rose to become the nation's senior Catholic Church offi­cial, was mourned 
o n 

Wednesday Bernardin as a man who used his own graceful death as his last sermon. 
His funeral Mass, before 1,300 friends, religious lead­ers and politicians, followed two days of mourning by tens of thousands of people who filed past the casket at Holy Name Cathedral. 
Bernardin, the senior Roman Catholic prelate in the United States and leader of Chicago's 2.3 million Catholics, died last week after a 17 -month bout with pancre­atic cancer. He spent his final months telling his followers he was at peace with his fate and his beliefs. 
Just days before his death, he wrote to the U.S. Supreme Court, urging it not to allow doctor-assisted suicide. In September, Bernardin also went to the cell of a death­row inmate who asked to pray with him before being execut­ed. 
During his homily, Velo said Bernardin's greatest legacy was as a man who bridged the differences of race, poli­tics and religion. 

Thinkofus 
as yourscliool bus. 
semester breaks or heading home for your sister's wedding, if going home means catching a plane at Midway or O'Hare, the best way to the airport is United Limo. 
Frequent seJVice, all day from campus gets you there on schedule. And when it's time to hit the books again, we'll pick you up at the airport and bring you back to 
school. No hassles, no problems. -For information and schedule consult your travel agent or call 
800-833-5555 
I J~ITI=n II~A()
Vi ~i i i-i..i' i-ii i iV' 
Your Airport Connection, O'Hare &Midway, All Day... Every Day 
United Limo to the Chicago Airports 
Leave Notre Dame  Arrive Midway  Arrive O'Hare  
Main Gate  (via Tri State Coach­ Terminals 1, 2, & 3  
transfer in Portage)  (International terminal  
15 minutes later)  
4:00a.m.  6:10a.m.  5:55a.m.  
6:00a.m.  8:10a.m.  8:10a.m.  
8:00a.m.  10:10 a.m.  9:55a.m.  
9:00a.m.  11:10 a.m.  10:55 a.m.  
10:00 a.m.  12:10 p.m.  11:55 a.m.  
12:00 p.m.  2:10p.m.  1:55 p.m.  
1:00 p.m.  3:10p.m.  2:55p.m.  
2:00p.m.  4:10p.m.  3:55p.m.  
4:00p.m.  6:10p.m.  5:55p.m.  
6:00p.m.  8:10p.m.  7:55p.m.  


Clinton makes trip dolVIl under 
By TERENCE HUNT 
Associated Press Writer 
SYDNEY, Australia 
Assuming the role of tourist­in-chief, President Clinton made a surprise early-morning visit Thursday to Sydney's famed 
Opera House and found an astonished security guard to lead a tour. The president also went on a shopping 

spree with his Clinton wife and bought a Crocodile Dundee-style hat. 
One day after winning a standing ovation with a speech in Australia's Parliament, the president pivoted from business t<i pleasure. His only official duties were a brief speech to the people of Sydney. 
"This is a magnificent place," Clinton declared. He praised Australia as a remarkable. nation of immigrants, always willing to extend a hand to the needy countries of the world. 
"Whenever the troubled places of the Earth call out," the president said, "Australia has always been there to help. Throughout the Asia-Pacific region and the entire world, you are seen as a beacon of strength and freedom and democracy." 
He said his wife, Hillary, told him she wanted to return to Australia in 2000 as America's representative as Sydney hosts the Olympic Games. "Which means, I suppose, I'll have to come back as her valet ... ," he joked. "I've had such a good time here, I'd like to come back in any capacity." 
The highlight of Clinton's day: a long-awaited golf date with PGA pro Greg Norman, an Australian legend. Concluding his speech, Clinton said, "I am about to go try to survive a golf game with your famous golfer." 
Earlier, he quipped that he would spot Norman a few strokes, but "no more than one a hole." 
Limbering up for the match, the president went jogging early in the morning in the Royal Botanic Gardens along the waterfront. His diplomatic work behind him, he said he looked forward to a break. "I need it. It's great." 
Still in jogging pants and 
sweaty T -shirt, Clinton strolled over to the Opera House, whose towering white shells' roof are a trademark of Sydney. It was closed at the early hour but Clinton found a surprised watch­man who took him around the building until an opera house official rushed in to take over. 
"This is one of the most famous buildings in the world," the president said. "I didn't want to come all the way to Sydney and not see it." Clinton said. 
"As a musician, I have always been curious about what the concert halls look like and how the acoustics would work." · Later, the president and Mrs, Clinton went on a shopping excursion in a trendy section of Sydney called the Rocks. 
The president went into a clothing store and picked out a traditional Australian Akubra wide-brimmed hat. He said, "I have had a great old Indiana Jon~.s hat that I just about wore out. 
Mrs. Clinton, asked about their shopping trip, said, "We bought some aboriginal art for Christmas gifts." They bought a boomerang, vases, woven bas­kets and other items. 
DO YOU WANT SOME GOOD EXPERIENCE WORKING FOR 
THE OBSERVER join the Saint Mary's Observer Staff 
Open editorial positions in news and sports. Bring applications to 314 LaFortune 
FUN!! 
call Caroline Blum @ 
631-4540 with questions 

Ifyou see news happening, call The Observer at 631-5323 
You can be a part of an important clinical research study. 


Do you have Asthma? 
You may be eligible to participate in a medical research study which will provide: 
FREE CLINIC VISITS/ PHYSICAL EXAMS FREE STUDY MEDICATION FREE LABORATORY TESTS/ LUNG FUNCTION TESTS & MODEST FINANCIAL COMPENSATION (Up to $4oo.00) 
To be ~ligible to participate, you must be between the ages of 12 and 70 years old have a diagnosis of asthma. 
For more information about being a volunteer for this medical research study call: (219) 288--0931 or 

1--800.-RxStudy ( 1--800--797--8839) 
Healtlt\(Advance 
Insmu~e 
Wllllot~ 11..-q.so;:lro Cult'n 

r----------------------------~-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------. 
page 6 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, November 21, I 996 



AIDS 
continued from page 1 
be uninformed. 
Acknowledging that risk is greatly underestimated at Notre Damn, Newton also said that the issue of alcohol must be addressed when educating about AIDS transmission. 
"The alcohol patterns on this campus are very serious threats to health, including AIDS," Newton said. 
Hegarding the larger eommu­nity, Debra Stanley, Educational Coordinator for AIDS Ministries/AIDS Assist. cncour­agl~d people to look at AIDS as a general health issue, encourag­ing a proaetive stanee. 
"We are just not looking at our health in a preventative mode," said Stanley. 
Senate 
continued from page 1 
campus is the Alumni Senior Club," he said. 
As for what llammoncls eallccl the tradition of' the liquid luneh program, Cassidy referred to Malloy's address to the faculty earlier in the semester. "The only thing that [Malloy) addressed in reference to cam­pus life was the alcohol abuse on campus," he said. "I just don't see the need for [serving alcohol) during the lunch hour." 
I
NTERNATIONAL WORKING OPPORTUNITY 
~""''··· ·-···;.:"'' 
§§3OBC ENGLISH:: 
COm\iRSATION SCHOOL 
is seeking university graduates 
fora one year teaching position in Japan. Attractive salary, benefits and opportunities. Japanese language skills Hot necessary 
RECRUITING DATES: February 1, 2, and 3 
One 18" Pizza for Slo.oo +tax One item per pizza 
Stanley also said that certain marginalized sections of the community, including African­Americans and women, arc increasingly affected by AIDS but traditionally denied access to education and information. 
"We (African-Americans) have had a lack of access to health care. and this is linked to both economics and politics," Stanley said. 
According to Stanley, informa­tion about women and AIDS has been limited up to now because of the treatment of women as "second class citizens." 
"Women's symptoms are just now being looked at," said Stanley. "Traditional HIV/AIDS research has focused only on gay, white men." 
Sylvia Galvan, the bilingual client care coordinator for AIDS Ministries, added that in provid­ing AIDS education, one must 
"I dun't think the seniors are as much of a part of [the "binge" drinking) problem," Hammonds said. "I find the idea of someone te1]ing me that I am not capable of making a responsible decision in regard to alcohol slightly ofl'ensive." 
"Now seniors are still going to go get a beer after classes on Friday," Senate member Ryan Mcinerney, who drafted the resolution, said. "They are just going to drive off campus to get it, and that is more dan­gerous." 
Hammonds argued that the new non-alcoholic lunch offered realize that judgment has made victims of the disease seem less than human. 
''The hardest thing for people to see is that (AIDS patients) are human beings," Galvan said. 
Adding to Newton's suggestion for AIDS education that is "broader and a lot bolder than it is at Notre Dame," Stanley stressed that such education must address the nee.ds of what she called our "shrinking plan­et." 
"We must remember that we touch each other so closely through our actions," she said. "We need to provide opportuni­ties for people to create their own solutions through preven­tion." 
Further information about substance abuse and AIDS edu­cation is available at the Life Treatment Center at 233-LIFE, and AIDS Ministries at 288-AIDS. 
by the Alumni Senior Club had failed in the stated goal of bringing more people together on the south side of campus. "It has even hurt business to be open every day and not have anyone show up except con­struction workers from the sta­dium," Hammonds said. 
Cassidy agreed but asked that the Senate consider any changes short of reinstating "liquid lunch." 
The resolution will be sent to Vice President for Student Affairs Patricia O'Hara and included in the agenda for Monday's Campus Life Council meeting. 
'97-98 4-8 Bedrooms, Fully furnished Security Systems Washers/Dryers call Pat @ 258-9996 
OIDlOS 
continued from page 1 
Over the course of the talk, Olmos lined up questions con­cerning abortion, his humani­tarian work in Chiapas, his career in entertainment, and thp thought of an 'English Only' America. 
When the issue of an 'English Only' America was raised by a member of the audience, Olmos addressed it with the same frankness and 
/PLEASE RECYCLE THE OBSERVER/ 
Appearing LIVE at tbe 
lMllhliJ)TI~(Q)N (Q)1f~1lJEnR Iffi.&nR 
402 EAST MADISON SOUTH BEND, IN (219) 288-3776 
Thursday, November 21, Dub Dis Friday, November 22, Billy "Stix" Nix Saturday, November 23, Danny Lerman 
hours: Mon Sat 3:00p.m.-3:00a.m. 
NATIONAL & REGIONAL ACTS HALF PRICE COVER WITH STUDENT ID 
SERVING EXCELLENT FOOD till 1 a.m. Thurs., Fri., Sat. 
WEDNESDAYS: open rn1c Jam THURSDAYS: reggae FRIDAYS: blues SATURDAYS: classic rock -alternative -retro national and regional acts 
assertiveness that he had used throughout the entire leeture. 
"Many would rather make dollars than make sense. don't like to make dollars," Olmos stated. 
"When you vote 'English Only' you arc telling your chil­dren's children's ehildren that they can only be monolingual. You have the responsibility of not letting the dollar beat you clown." 
After the talk, Olmos spoke with members of the audience and signed autographs in LaFortune's Foster Boom. 
r-------~.~~~-------~----~~--­
Thursday, November 21, 1996 The Observer· NATIONAL NEWS page? 





Speaker: GOP has 'moral obligation' to compromise 
By DAV1D ESPO Associated Press Writer 
WASHfNGTON 
Chosen by Republicans for a second term as House speak­er, Newt Gingrich said Wednesday the GOP 

Congress has Gingrich an "absolute 
moral obligation" to work with President Clinton and leave the campaign wars behind. 
In a speech following his selection, Gingrich looked ahead to an "Implementation Congress" on issues such as bal­ancing the budget, cutting taxes, attacking drugs and improving the health care system. 
"We bear the unusual burden of reaching out to a Democratic president and saying, together, we can find common ground," said Gingrich, whose formal election as speaker is slated for Jan. 7, 1997, when the 105th Congress officially convenes. 
Across the Capitol complex, Senate Democratic Leader Tom Daschle of South Dakota expressed a similar hope for cooperation. 
In his first extended remarks since the presidential and con­gressional elections, Daschle said, "There really is perhaps an historic opportunity for Democrats and Republicans to work together. And our choice 
Ever Wonder Why the Birds Fly South? 
It's Not Just for the Weather. 
T 
he flagship of an excellent business school, our MBA 
program is nationally ranked 
for high quality and cost­effectiveness. Check out our references at right. What's more, a booming internation­al business community (Mercedes, JVC, British Steel) and outstanding computer, research, and classroom facilities make a UA business degree an especially great value. Our admission requirements? Like a lot of things about us, they're a little different: 
• 
Most MBA programs require several years' work experience -we want you right out of college. 

• 
Most programs prefer business majors-our students come from a wide range of backgrounds, and we like it that way. (Liberal-arts majors welcome here.) 


We're looking for bright, motivated students -especially those hoping to combine academic challenges with hands-on experience. 
If your grades and GMAT scores tell us you have potential, you can get an early start on the education -and the career-you want. 




IC~BAI 
Tl!e University of Alabama is an equal opportunity educational imtitution/employer. 

"The University of 
Alabama offers one of 
the most low-cost, 
sought-after MBAs. 
But this doesn't come 
at the cost of 
academics." 
The Princeton Review Student Access Guide to the Best Business Schools, 1996 Edition 
"Business Week selected 15 quality business schools that offer consumers the most bang for the buck .•• Alabama has been steadily increasing the quality of its students." 
Business Week Guide to the Best Business Schools, Fourth Edition 

Send us your GMAT scores. We'll do the rest. 
Write: 
The University of Alabama 
Manderson Graduate School of Business 
College of Commerce and 
Business Administration 
Box 870223 
Tuscaloosa, AL 35487-0223 
Call: toll-free 888/UofA MBA 
WWW address: http://www.cba.ua.edu/-mba 
And by the way it was 73° in Tuscaloosa on December 5, 1995 
is really this: We can legislate Gingrich's remarks were or we can recriminate." more subdued and less combat­
President Clinton, too, has ive than two years ago. indicated a willingness to work Then, he had led his party to with Republicans. "We're in a House majority for the first this boat together, and we have time in 40 years, and stood to paddle it together," he said ready to lead them through an shortly after the voters had exhaustive effort to pass the returned both him and the GOP conservative "Contract With Congress to power. America." 
r i 
Jr' '{ r' I JJ Jr:.. r· I lU ~J
J J.!,../r 1 !:.) ._I ,_.I _. '_:.) .._.I _. .!_) 
MEETING 
Wednesd~y, 20 November~. 7.00 p.m. ~(9 
Montgomery Theater, LaFortune 
Interested in bikingjracing with us? 
~ Road and Trail Riding(J!f·~ Interested but can't make it? · ~ co.ntact Tom thorvath@darwin.hellos.nd.edu 

PRESENTS A 


SKA-FEST 
THURSDAY Nov 11 3 8ANPS l-MooN RECORP RECORDING BANPS FROM ST. LOUIS 
(1) 
ISSAC GREEN & THE SKALERS 

(l) 
BAcCONE DOLCE, PLUS ND CAMPUS BAND 


(3) SKALCOHOLIKS Doors open 9 p.m. -2 Dance Floors -21 and over 
FRIDAY NOV 22 SI<ALCOHOLII<S-BRING A PARENT PARTY 18 AND OVER WITH COLLEGE ID FRIDAY 

-----~·~-~----1 
page 8 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT Thursday, November 14, 1996 

CAMPUS MINISTRY® 
Calendar of Events 
November 21 -December 5 
Power Lunch: Sacrament of Marriage Part II 
Thursday, November 21 12:45-1:45 pm Faculty Dining Room 
Folk Choir Benefit Concert for the Holy Cross Missions 
Saturday, November 23 
7:30 pm, Basilica 
Campus Bible Study: Who Is Jesus to me? 
Tuesday, November 26, 7:00pm Campus Ministry-Badin Office 
Thanksgiving Day Mass 
Thursday, November 28 
11:30 am, Basilica 
Relationship Workshop Team Meeting 
Wednesday, December 4, 5:00pm Faculty Dining Room 
Kairos: Advent 
Wednesday, December 4, 7:30pm Chapel of the Holy Cross 
Power Lunch: The Spirit of Advent 
Thursday, December 5 12:45-1:45pm Faculty Dining Room 
Announcement: Are you a gay, lesbian or questioning undergraduate? Campus Ministry welcomes you to join us in conversation. For information call Kate at 1-5242 or 237-1981 
Thirty-Fourth Sunday in Ordinary Time 
Feast of Christ the King 
Weekend Presiders Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
Saturday, November 23 
Half hour after game Rev. Richard V. Warner, C.S.C 
45 minutes after game at Stepan Center Rev. Danial Jenky, C.S.C. 
Sunday, November 24 
8 a.m. Rev. James Rigert, C.S.C. 
10 a.m. Rev. E. William Beauchamp, C.S.C 
12:00 noon 
Rev. Edward A. Malloy, C.S.C. 
Scripture Readings for this coming Sunday 
First Reading: Ezekiel 34:11-12, 15-17 Second Reading: 1 Corinthians 15:20-26, 28 Gospel: Matthew 25:31-46 


WHAT COULD PARENTS' WEEKEND POSSIBLY HAVE TO DO WITH THE THANKSGIVING HOLIDAY ANYWAY? 
Oh, you think you have it all figured out simply from reading the title. You 
think this article is about something as simple as being thankful for your 
Mom and Dad at Thanksgiving time. Although that may ultimately be what 
this article has to say, it is actually much more nuanced and, may I say, 
sophisticated than that. 
We are well nigh upon Parents' Weekend. Mom, Dad, sibs, and Rover may 
already be enroute! It's a weekend during which we host our parents 
instead of them always hosting us. It's an opportunity to welcome them to 
the home that they have, in many ways, made possible for us and that we 
have, or are beginning to, claim as our own. 
Do you think it's mere coincidence that Parents' Weekend falls only days 
away from Thanksgiving Day? Well, I'm not sure either, but it sure seems to 
make a lot of sense ... doesn't it? I mean what two events are better compan­
ions than hosting our parents and the day upon which we give thanks to 
God for the blessings we have known in our lives. 
We often speak of the Notre Dame Family. In fact, we so often speak of it that I fear the power of the image may be lessened. Nonetheless, the reality is, it isn't only you who became a part of Notre Dame when you enrolled f(>r that first class. There was something more that happened. Mom and Dad's years of love and care had moved you to a place beyond the shelter of their home, but not beyond the shelter of their hearts. Their participation in this place is wrapped up in yours; their membership in this family is wrapped up in you. 
All of us, students, parents, faculty and staff, the entire Notre Dame commu­nity, have much to be thankful for in these days. In the same way that fami­lies throughout the country gather on Thanksgiving Day to give thanks, I think it makes sense that we should gather. Although wrapped up in a foot­ball weekend, it is no less an opportunity for this Notre Dame Family to gather and to give thanks for the many blessings that we as a family have known. 
One of the most significant ways that we, as a Catholic community, can give 
thanks is through the celebration of the Eucharist. The very word, 
"eucharist," means "thanksgiving" in Greek. I have long thought that no 
visit to this campus is complete without partaking in the Eucharist; I risk 
offending some by saying that it is more important even than that which 
takes place in the stadium on six Saturdays in the Fall. It is, wherever we 
choose to partake in it, a central symbol of our shared faith, and an impor­
tant moment of prayer and thanks for this family. 
Oh, I'd like to take credit for the fact that Parents' Weekend falls days before Thanksgiving...but I cannot. Perhaps credit is due to someone, or maybe it's just coincidence. Whatever the reason, let's not miss the connection. Join 
me in giving thanks to God this weekend for the blessings that your family 
has known in the persons ofyour parents, and join me, too, in thanking God for the blessings that this larger Notre Dame family has known. 
Jim Lies, C.S.C. 
CJ 
0 
~ 
~ b ~ 
~ 
~ ~ 
~ 
~ 
a· 
~ 
~ 
• • • 


(Z\MPUSMINISTRY 




VIEWPOINT 
Thursday, November 21, 1996 
THE OBSERVER 
NoTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 63!-7471 
SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1996-97 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Elizabeth Foran Managing Editors Business Manager Patricia Carson Mart Casey Tom Roland 
News Editor.. . ................ Brad Prc:nderga.o;t Advertising Manager ........................... Ellen Ryan Viewpoint Editor................... Erhan Hayward Ad Design Manager ..............................Jed Peters Sports Editor........ . ..... Timothy Sherman Production Manager ...................... Tara Grieshop Accent Editor..........................Joey Crawford Systems Manager ..................Michael Brouillet 
Saint Mary's Editor.................Caroline Blum Controller .........................................Tyler Weber Photo Editor .......................... Michael Ruma 
The Observer is rhe independent newspaper published by rhe srudems of the Universiry of Notre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect rhe policies of rhe adminisrra· rion ofeither institution. The news is reponed as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned edi­torials represenr dte opinion of rhe majority of the Ediror-in-Chief, Managing Ediror, News Ediror, Viewpoinr Editor, Accent Ediror, Photo Editor, Sporrs Ediror, and Saint Mary's Ediror. Commentaries, letters and [nside Columns present the views of rhe aurhor.s, and not necessarily rhose ofThe Observer. Viewpoint space is available ro all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's com­munity and ro all readers. The free expression of varying opinions through leners is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 
Editor-in-Chief 631-4542 Business Office 631-5313 Managing Edicor/Viewpoint 631-4541 Advertising 631 -6900/8840 Sports 631-4543 Systems/Marketing Dept. 631-8839 News/Photo 631-5323 Office Manager 631-7471 Accent/Saint Mary's 631-4540 Fax 631-6927 Dav Ediror/Production 631-5303 Viewpoint E-Mail Viewpoint.! @nd.edu Gc~erallnformation 631-7471 Ad E-Mail observer@darwin.cc.nd.edu 

• 
Going home for Thanksgiving the pilgrim way 
They came slinking into the country in tlw full light of day, uninvited. While they expected to work here, thoy did not carry passports, visas or greencards. They worn dirty, unkempt, and tired; they did not speak the language and were too lazy to learn. 
Bernadette Pampuch 

The problem was not that they came in ones or twos, it was that they came in such numbers. Whole hungry families, mothers, fathers, children and livestock. We found them disease-ridden, desper­ate, eager to take hold of the land. We found them reluctant to give up their oh­so-foreign customs, way of dress, way of life. They were intruders, aliens, and today we would probably deport them. 
llappy Thanksgiving. 
Next week we celebrate Thanksgiving Day -day of vacation, day of family dinner, day of orange cut-out pumpkins, yellow-crayoned cornucopias, pilgrim hats made out of black and white con­struction paper and Indian array fash­ioned from grocery bags and plastic beads. We rarely remember what it is all for. 
We learn in elementary school that Thanksgiving celebrates the coming together of mythically distant Pilgrims and Indians in a great feast of friend­ship, make more paper pilgrim hats and paper-plate turkeys, and never stop and think about how hypocritical we've become. We forget. 
Thanksgiving -today, besides cele­brating the thanks we give, we remem­ber the Mayflower and the pilgrims. It is funny we celebrate the arrival of a boat­load of undesirables fleeing from their home country if we stop and think about 
• GARRY TRUDEAU 
how many times we have turned away boatloads of tired refugees from China, Cuba and beyond. They come seeking the same things our original pilgrims wanted; a better life, a new land to take hold of, and freedom. What is the differ­ence? 
Maybe we should change the inscrip­tion on the Statue of Liberty. It should read, "Give me your tired, your poor, your huddled masses/ unless they are too dark, or too poor, or too eager to take hold of the land." 
We don't want them. We don't care how hard they work, they do not belong here. They are not the same as we are. They bring their Haitian food, Chinese holidays, El Salvadoran traditions. They don't look the same, talk the same, or seem to want to learn. 
Maybe it's because they are too dark, too ethnic. We don't seem to have a problem with illegal immigrants from certain parts of the world. In the olden days, if someone from Russia escaped to the U.S., we called it "defection." If a Mexican does the same thing, it's called illegal. 
Maybe it's the language. We can allow history to show that the pilgrims came here and would not abandon their tongue, but we will not allow anyone else to do the same. This American con­tinent was and is home to the language of the Cherokee, Iroquois, and Lakota, but managed to absorb English and sur­vive. We adapted, and changed. We learned to incorporate native words into everything. Michigan, Minnesota, Mishawaka, and a thousand others. Now, we pass English-only laws and overlook the reality of foreign words col­oring our speech: kiosk, fiesta, carpe diem. Deja vu. 
It happens again and again, every day. Foreigners come, we turn them away. If they stay, we seek them out and punish them, but only under certain circum­stances. They must be ethnic, they must be poor, there must be no one to speak for them. 
This Thanksgiving, some of us will do it again. We will parade out the turkeys and stuffing, corn and pilgrim hats, and tip our hats to people like California gover­nor Pete Wilson and his revolutionary ideas -denying schooling to the chil­dren of immigrants, denying medical attention to the undocumented, denying basic human aid to anyone who is not supposed to be here. 
How will the chil­dren of the immi­grants that stay cele­brate an American Thanksgiving years from now? 
Instead of turkeys and overflowing cor­nucopias, bones licked clean and thrown out in the streets. Instead of peace offerings, beat­ings from the 
L.A.P.D. Instead of the Mayflower, Cuban flotillas turned away. 
One of the funniest things I ever saw was a sign at a civil rights rally for Latinos in Washington, DC, that said, "Who's the illegal alien, pilgrim?" Funny, because it's something we never learn in school. Those of us who proudly trace our ancestry back to the Mayflower call ourselves Americans and think the children of immigrants from China born and raised here in the U.S. are still Chinese. 
Two of my great-grandparents illegal­ly entered the U.S. from Poland through Ellis Island. My great-grandfather snuck across the border between Mexico and Eagle Pass, Texas, to work the fields. My roots lie in Russia, England, and the Cherokee Nation. But above all else, I am one hundred percent American, daughter of parents born in the U.S. to parents born in the U.S., and proud to 


~---------~---­
....._ 
page 10 
Thursday, November 21, 1996 

VARIOUS ARTISTS 0 Come All Ye Faithful: Rock for Choice ~ ~ 
BIJ\11 (RIIIlf:\ DIIIICI.IIfii.L (kii\IIIRI Dm l'ORl:IT 11110 liJ[) ~ 
= = """ 
a = 

C
himney-necked Henry Hollins starts ofT the season's inevitable alternative rock Gen-X-Mas compilation with a post­modern version of '"Twas the Night Before Christmas." The heart-warm­ing sounds of police helicopters and sporadic Uzi blasts accompany Hollins as he slaughters a tradi­tional holiday favorite with neck vein popping fer­vor. 

EELS 
T
he debut album from this California-based band has been hailed as one of the high­lights of the year in music, and no doubt some of this acclaim is well-deserved. However, to be worthy of such accolades a work must be good from beginning to end, and unfortunatdy the Eels do not quite meet this crite­rion. 
Things start well enough with the popular 
Nocturn~,;::0,Top,.. l..;o 
,·--r~······ ... ,..........~.. 
1. 
Morcheeba -Who Can You Trust? 

2. 
Shawn Colvin-A Few Small Repairs 


3. 
Kula Shaker-K 

4. 
Geggy Tah -Sacred Cow II 

5. 
The Cheese -Flip Your Lid 


6. The Heads -No Talking: Just Head 
7. Donavan-Sutras 
8. Luscious Jackson-Fever In, Fever Out 
;-..~
9. Pete Drooge & the Sinners 
··~ 
10. Catherine -1/ot Saki & Bedtime Stories 
\
11. BT-lma 1 
12. The Hoots -Illadelph 1/alflife \ 
13. Mazzy Star-Amoung My Swan 
14. Sneaker Pimps -Tesko Suicide 
l 
15. 
Star -69 Xtended Play 

16. 
Division St. -.)'tanding On Ceremony 




8X.9 F!\1 )
17. Bill White Acre-Billy's Not Bitter 
18. 
Preacher Boy 

19. 
Garbage 

20. 
Vic Chesnutt -About to Choke 


"-. 
' 
Beautiful Freak 
(out of five) 
This musical lump of coal never recovers, despite a few desperate, honest attempts to squeeze out a diamond by a few artists. Luscious Jackson's deep, trippy groove on "Queen of Bliss" surpasses their new album's material with angelic vocals, piano spice, and mind-numbing multi-layering. Covering a Hebrew chant is a refreshing change of pace set by Shudder to Think on "AI Hanisim", for Craig Werden's high vibrato works perfectly over subtle, controlled guitar noise. Face to Face take the low-risk road to success by faithfully covering Elvis' "Blue Christmas" with little change. 
Where the album fails is in letting inexperienced grunge bands attempt to write their own new car­ols. Let's face it. Sponge, Mike Watt, and Wool are no Irvin Berlin. "Christmas Day" by Sponge starts ofT with the stolen riff from Police's "Every Breath You Take" and quickly nose-dives into music best fit for sale in rotating cassette displays on gas station sales counters. Ever wonder why Wool never quite broke it big time? Listen to the laughable "Xmas It's Christmas" and witness poor­ly disguised Skid How songs. 
A cover album of traditional Christmas favorites would have been exponentially more palatable. 0 Come All Ye Faithful conjures as much Christmas sentimentality as grey snow. Do you have a friend that likes one of the bands on this record? Give the gift of socks instead. 
by Brent DiCrescenzo 

(out of five) 
"Novocaine for the Soul," a curious and catchy tune simply presented and easily enjoyed. Also deserving of mention are "Beautiful Freak," a slow and charming ballad free from undue com­plexity, and "Not Heady Yet," another relaxed, soulful tune augmented by creditable production and the earthy. drawling voice of E, the vocalist. His melancholy attitude surfaces again in "Guest List," a subdued lament which emphasizes once more the prevalent feeling of E's exclusion from anything of interest in the world. 
Somewhat disturbingly, this somber feeling becomes mutated in a couple of tracks. leaving unpleasant memories in the mind of the listener; "Flower" is just a dismal plea to God from a lonely guy backed by hideous choir noises and containing such wonderfully inept lines as "it's a pretty big world God, and I am awful small." "Manchild" also is hardly a credit to the rest of the album, consisting of cheesy samples creating the frame­work for a forgettable dirge which well could have been left on the mixing room lloor. Both these tracks point to a small but significant problem; the vocalist is a relatively depressed and unhappy per­son, kind of a Californian Kierkegaard, who believes the world would be a better place if we shared his suiTering. We do not want to, though; it's boring. The reason why this album is as good as it is (and it is good), is that competent musical skills and excellent production preclude too many lapses into this kind of nonsense. 
by Julian Elliott 
• CLASSICAL CORNER 



A Lesson 
on 'The 
Lou Cheer' 
By JULIE BRUBAKER and MICHAEL ANDERSON A.ccenr Musk Critics 
P
eter Ilyitch Tchaikovski called it "very loud and noisy." The University of Notre Dame simply calls it the "Lou Cheer." Of course, the Notre Dame community is proud to have had Lou for over ten 
years, but classical music lovers like us wonder how 
Tchaikovski's "1812 Overture" ever became associated 
with Notre Dame's famed head coach. 
Our brief survey explores not only the origin and evolu­tion of the "Lou Cheer," but also the history of' Tchaikovski's "1812 Overture.'' 
The year 1812 has nothing to do with Independence Day and fireworks in America. Rather. the overture's title is a reference to the year of Russia's victory over Napoleon. 
Though many a Domer would disagree, Tchaikovski admitted that the "1812 Overture" did not excite him. If it were not for a lucrative commission, it is unlikely that he would have generated the composition on his own initia­tive. 
The "1812 Overture" was completed in 1882 for tho 70th anniversary of the Russian victory. It was also used for the 1882 Moscow Exhibition, in particular for the con­secration of the Cathedral of Christ the Savior. 
Despite the relative disapproval by Tchaikovski himself, the "1812 Overture" was well-received in its premiere and in many successful performances throughout Hussia . 
The power-packed ending of the "1812 Overture" is like­ly the reason for its popularity in the United States. With loud accents, a strong orchestral sound, and a compelling sense of closure, tho piece easily fits into any !iroworks display on the Fourth of July. 
How the "1812 Overture" found its way into the house that Rockne built is another story. 
In the mid-1980's, the Marching Band did a half-time show featuring Tchaikovski's "1812 Overture." Little did they know that the students and fans would be captivated by its exciting texture. 
The student body's response to this piece was so strong that the band kept on playing it randomly, throughout football games. 
During the Southern California game one year, some students began the gestures of the now famous "Lou cheer." Eventually. this spread throughout the stadium. Thus, the H1812. Overture," accompanied by the newly developed gestures of the students, became the "Lou cheer." It later became a staple of football games after the third quarter and during the band's post-game show. 
The "Lou cheer" is a rare instance in which a collegiate football coach and a piece of classical music have been consistently linked together. 
We suggest that this practice should become a tradition at the University of Notre Dame. As coaches are consid­ered for Lou Holtz' replacement, the student body should consider a piece of classical music that would be suitable for a tribute to that coach. 
Lou Holtz and the "1812 Overture" are a unique combi­nation. Although there seems to be no formula for fitting a coach with a classical piece of music, the student body can anticipate voting for a work that evokes a certain hys­teria for the fans. Our warning: be careful with the invigo­rating works of Richard Wagner. 
Perhaps another piece that is "loud and noisy" is all Notre Dame fans need to honor their football team's new head coach. 
While Lou is still here, after this weekend's Rutgers game. the Folk Choir will present a "Concert of Sacred Music for the Missions." 
This free concert oiTered by the Basilica's 'contemporary music release' ensemble will be held in the Basilica at 
8:00 p.m. after the football game on Saturday. There will be a free-will donation at intermission to bone!it the Holy Cross Missions. 
The concert will feature sacred music from the Folk Choir's new CD. All proceeds from the sale of this album will benefit an African Mission. 
The concert will last about an hour and may be a way to avoid post-game restaurant crowds in South Bend. 
Thursda, November 21, 1996 The Observer • SPORTS page 11 
• MAJOR lEAGUE BASEBALL 
Smoltz to stay 
Fans 'angry' as Belle departs Cleveland 
in Atlanta
By KEN BERGER that the Braves would re-sign Belle's chase for dollars was can you say? Albert's a great Associated Press Writer Smoltz. Terms of the contract just another sign that the rela­hitter." 
By PAUL NEWBERRY 
were not immediately available. tionship between cities and pro Alomar said the team was 
AssOciated Press Wrirer
CLEVELAND Even without Belle, athletes, once the very fabric of prepared for Belle's departure The Cleveland Indians are Cleveland's lineup is still sound. sports, has eroded. before the season even started. 
/}' __ __ •··•·•··,•,-,, _... AoTLANTA
less powerful but more com­Kenny Lofton still leads off, fol­"Let us stop getting our "I think Albert had a goal," 
'· The Atlanta Braves will 
fortable -in the clubhouse and lowed by either Julio Franco or hearts broken by people who Alomar said. "His goal was to 
keep the best rotation in
bank account -without Albert • Kevin Seitzer, Jim Thome, we don't even know, who we be the highest paid player in 
baseball intact with the re­
Belle. recently acquired Matt Williams think love us and want to be baseball, and he achieved it. I 
*i~ning toa.*yof t;y·Young
The challenge now is finding and Manny Hamirez. with us," Needle said. "This is knew this was the last year I Award wiiiner John Sfuoltz. 
something constructive to do Hart said he appreciated not a love affair. This is busi­was going to play with Albert 
A source, speakhig on the
with all that money they don't Belle's contributions, but ness. These guys are mercenar­Belle." 
c()npition. tha~ he nqt be iden­have to pay him. wasn't exactly teary-eyed over ies of fortune. Sure, they're our The Indians, who turned 
tified, said Smaltz had agreed
Belle signed a free-agent con­his departure. team -until they feel like around decades of losing with 
to a riew contract with the 
tract with the Chicago White "We have turned the page." going someplace else." Belle in the middle of the bat­National League champions.
Sox on Tuesday. The deal Like team management, Cleveland fans have been ting order, now must try to reportedly will pay him $55 Indians fans supported Belle here before. keep contending without him. million for five years. through all his controversies, "I know I am more angry, Not ortly that, they have to get 
Should the Indians have got­from alcohol rehab to sus­more jaded," Diane Elting of him out when they play the te~l out the checkbook and just pensions to tantrums that are Shaker Heights said. "It's get­White Sox, their chief AL paid Belle what he wanted? not even included on Belle's ting to the point where I don't Central rivals. 
"It's not that we couldn't extensive rap sheet with the care anymore. If the individuals Indians fans might be tempt­have stepped up and played," American League -like bash­who play on a team change ed to get out the 1997 schedule, goneral manager John Hart ing the clubhouse thermostat, every· year, how can you have circle all the games with said. "It's just that there arc showing up teammates for not any loyalty? You don't even Chicago and get ready to boo better ways for us to spend our scoring on his hits and rear­know who's out there any­the player they've cheered all money." ranging the postgame buffet. more." these years. 
This remains to be seen. But the expected outcry over Indians catcher Sandy The problem with that is, Among those on Hart's wish list this popular slugger's depar­Alomar, one of the nice guys baseball is in such a labor and is .John Smoltz, who won the NL ture was just not there. After left in sports, recalled that financial mess that there is no Cy Young award for the Atlanta losing the NFL's Browns to Belle's stay with the Indians schedule for the 1997 season Braves this year. llart would Baltimore and the franchise wasn't just about home runs yet. White Sox owner Jerry not confirm a report that free agency movement, this city and RBis. Reinsdorf, a frequent critic of Cleveland offered Smaltz a knows the drill in pro sports in "It was always an adventure spiraling sports salaries, now four-year contract worth $30 the :9os. with Albert," Alomar said. has the highest-paid players in million. Talk show host Bill Needle set "Sometimes you got a little bit two sports-Michael Jordan of 
That hope appeared to be the tone on radio station WKNR scared when things were flying the Bulls and Belle. dashed today with the word just before the announcement. around the clubhouse, but what When will it end? 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. 


Classifieds 
Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 

NOTICES 
SPRING BREAK Travel Free Organize a Small Group Earn$$$ Cancun Jamaica Bahamas Package includes 2 meals + 3hrs. all-u-can drink daily. Don. Surf & Sun (800)763-5606. 
MICHIANA PAINTBALL IS NOW OPEN FOR INDOOR PAINTBALL GAMES AT SCOTTSDALE MALL CALL 291-9462 FOR INFO. 
Spring Break Bahamas Party Cruise! 6 Days $279! Includes All Meals, Free Parties, Taxes! Great Beaches & Nightlife! Prices Increase Soon-Save $50! spring­breaktravel.com 1-800-678-6386 
Cancun & Jamaica Spring Break Specials! 7 Nights Air & Hotel From South Bend $419! Prices Increase Soon-Save $50! Save $150 on Food, Drinks! 111% Lowest Price Guarantee! springbreaktravel.com 
1-800-678-6386 
Spring Break Panama City! Boardwalk Beach Resort! Best Hotel, Location, Price! 7 Nights $1291 Daytona-Best Location $139! Cocoa Beach Hilton $169! spring­breaktravel.com 1-800-678-6386 
NEED A QUALIFIED BABYSITTER? REFERENCES AVAILABLE 288-0704 
ILOST & FOUND I 
..........HELP!!!*'**•••••••• I lost a gold ring with a purple stone. It has great sentimental value. Please, if you find it, call Nicole x2547-REWARD. 

WANTED 
HUGE NO FAN DESPERATE FOR 5 GAs FOR RUTGERS. CALL PAT (813}360-2243. 
EASTERN EUROPE JOBS-Teach basic conversational English in Prague, Budapest, or Krakow. No teaching certificate or European languages required. Inexpensive Room & Board + other benefits. For info. call: (206)971-3680 ext.K55843 
NATIONAL PARKS HIRING· Positions are now available at National Parks, Forests, & Wildlife Preserves. Excellent benefits + bonuses! Call: 1-206-971-3620 ext. N55849 
ALASKA EMPLOYMENT· Students Needed! Fishing Industry. 
Earn up to $3,000-$6,000+ per month. Room and Board! 

FOR SALE
Transportation! Male or Female. No experience necessary. Call (206)971-351 0 extA55848 Macintosh Power Book 520 with 
color screen, modem included & Part Time Nanny Needed. portable color Hewlett Packard Flexible hours. Call 273-2713 printer for SALE!!! 4-1266 Mary. 
Atten_tion: Alumni, Parents, and 1963 TRIUMPH TR-4. Students $3,500 OR B/0. Looking for a porcelain Basilica LARRY 289-5303 EVE. issued in 1994 -Will pay good price! House for Sale by Owner Please call Kyle at 634-1799 1308 White Oak Drive in Wooded 
Estates. Walk to Notre Dame. 3 Roommate Wanted -Male/Female Bedroom ranch, 2 car garage openminded person wanted to attached w/ breezeway. 11/2 baths, share rent and utilities of 2 bedroom 1313 SF main level, 1025 sf base­apartment near downtown. Grad ment. ale, disposal, all appliances, student preferred. Ask for Scott -Security System. Completely 234-5795 refreshed to sell. asking 88,500. 
Open houses 12-5 every Sunday. Michiana's largest night club and Call219-295-8727 newest restaurant is now seeking competant, hard working individuals 'RENTS IN TOWN? to fill several positions within our ROOMS @ ST. MARY'S INN growing company. Positions now FOR SALE-CALL 288-0704 available are: Hostess, Banquet and restaurant servers, bus per­1995 Gold Saturn 25,000mls sons, Beer Tub and shot girls. All Air, Automatic, anti-lock brakes, positions are ideal for students. If dual air bags. $12,900 interested, contact Heartland and Call257-0238 The Old Chicago Steakhouse at 222 S. Michigan St. South Bend. 

I TICKETS I 
FOR RENT I Rutgers GAs for sale: up to 6 seats 
"=~~~~~~~=-----' together; (219) 250-3150 WALK TO CAMPUS 2-3-4-5 BEDROOM HOMES !!!!!!!RUTGERS GA FOR 232-2595 SALE!!!!!!!! 
.....Call Nicole @ 4x2807..... 7 MO. LEASE 1197-7/97 College Park Condo 2 bed, 2 full 2 RUT. GAs 4 SALE 
bath, wood floor, wash/dry, vaulted X2626,2597: lv.offer ceil, porch, furniture avail . BEAUTIFUL! For Sale 2 Rutger GA 243-9384 273-2580 
FOR SALE-2 GA's and 1 student ROOMS IN PRIVATE HOME FOR ticket for Rutgers. Call 634-4985 ND-SMC EVENTS. with best offer. 
IDEAL FOR FOOTBALL WEEK­
ENDS. NOTRE DAME GA'S WANTED VERY CLOSE TO CAMPUS. ALL GAMES HOME 243-0658. AND AWAY 
232-0058 REGGAE D. J. 24 HAS. 234 0705 BUY · SELL · TRADE 
2 & 6 BDRM HOMES AVAIL NOW TICKET-MART, INC. OR NEXT FALL. NEAR CAM­PUS.GILLIS PROPERTIES 272-WANTED: NOTRE DAME GA'S 6306 ANY/ALL GAMES. PLEASE CALL 
232-0061. Spacious 2 bdrm. apartment near campus, unfurnished, for spring FOR SALE 2 GA's ALL HOME semester. Call Peter at 234-4779. GAMES 235-3394 
House for Rent HELP! S.side-Erksine Blvd Student needs Rutgers GA's Great Neighborhood for family.· Newly Remodeled-10 min from NO Call Mark at x1487 2 bedrom-bsmt-garage-new appl w/d-a/c-water incl NEED RUTGERS TIX avail Dec or Jan $595+dep Brigitte x4055 1-7545 or 232-6942 WANTED RUTGERS GA TICKETS CALL ALEX @ 232-7324 
NEED 1 RUTGERS STD TIX CALL MICHELE @X2984 
Need a GA or Student ticket for Rutgers game. It's for my little brother. Call 4-2340. Ask for Frank. 
2 RUTGERS GA'S FOR SALE CALL CARL @ 4-2004 WITH BEST OFFER 
!! FOR SALE!! Rutgers Stud Tix Cheap, cail X1473 
Needed: 2 Rutgers GAs call Ryan at 4-3662 
FOR SALE Rutgers stud tix LOU'S LAST HOME GAME-Paul@283­0397 
NEED Rutger senior section stdt tix Anne 289-4922 
STUD TIX 4 SALE X1413 
NOTRE DAME GA'S WANTED ALL GAMES HOME 
AND AWAY 
232-0058 
24 HRS. BUY • SELL· TRADE 
TICKET-MART, INC. 
WANTED: NOTRE DAME GA'S ANY/ALL GAMES. PLEASE CALL 232-0061. 
$$$$$$ I NEED GA OR FACULTY TIXS ALL HOME GAMES. 272-6551 
n. d. tickets for sale 271 1635 
GA.s FOR SALE GA.s ""'"""""""PITT, RUTGERs , USC , GA.s CALL. ....272-7233. 
Need Rutgers GA's? 3 for sale@ 277-9957 
• *NEED 2 G.A.'s FOR USC* • • *please call 243-0760* • 
FOR SALE: 2 Rutgers GAs 273-2580 
Need Student Converted GA for Rutgers for cousin's first game. Call Steph X4135 
ND FOOTBALL TIX 
BOUGHT & SOLD. AM • 232-2378 PM -288-2726. 
RUT. STU FOR SALE-35$ -Ryan 234-1078 
For sale: 2 Married Std. Tix for Rutgers. Need 1 ID to use. x4519 
For sale: 4 USC tix. Excellent seats. Call X1930. 
Buy/sell Rutgers tickets ­Check our price 67 4-7645 
2 Rutgers GA's for sale. Room avail. if needed. 277-8340 
NEED RUTGERS GA's 312 951-5008 
One Rutgers GA $35, Call Daniel 273-6428 
Need 1 Rutgers GA call Scot X2005 
std tkt 4 sale. x3666 
When parents divorced, dad got tixs. Now I'm a Senior and mom wants to see a game. 
PLEASE-I need one stud conv GA or be disowned! CALL 243-0721 
LOU'S LAST GAME!!!. .. 2 GA'S GREAT SEATS ..... CALL 634-2480 .. (LV.MESSAGE) 
I need 3 ga tickets for Rutgers Call Timatx1747 

PERSONAL 
STANLEY­I was incognito -wearing the Big Banana suit. Wanted to make sure you weren't followed. ST, @ the new Juice Bar. -IRIS 
Mail Starved Domers in lnnsbruck 
crave correspondence!! 
lnnrain 33 
A-6020 lnnsbruck 
Tirol, Austria Europe 
COLOR COPIES ON CAMPUS! COLOR COPIES ON CAMPUS! COLOR COPIES ON CAMPUS! 
The highest quality full-color 
copies are now available at 
THE COPY SHOP 
LaFortune Student Center 
Phone #631-COPY 
TIM CORBITT IS THE COOLEST, PARTIEST GUY EVER TO LIVE IN LAFAYETTE 
ADOPTION IS A CHOICE OF LOVE. Choosing Adoption is an unselfish act of love. Your child will be raised to know this. Caring couple wish to share our love, laughs, and lives with an infant. Dad is kind and gen­tle. Mom is friendly and fun. Let's talk and see if we're right for you and your baby. Andrea and Lee: 1­800-213-3960. 
HEY GUNN-Do you think the Chief would permit an addition to the Oligarchy? Still working on that "accounting" thing. 
***SLF IS COMING:·• Start preparing early by coming to the Coffeehouse, Thursday, Nov. 21 in the LaFortune Ballroom, from 8-10 pm. Come to listen or sign up in the DH to read or play music. All are welcome. 
THANKS ST. JUDE FOR FAVORS GRANTED. TKS 
S-pooh, I do read the personals!!! Love, J-pooh 
Attention Seniors!!! In honor of our LAST PEP RALLY the class of 1997 is sponsoring a LAST PEP RALLY PARTY @ Alumni Senior Club. Doors open @ 5 pm-At 6:45, we will walk over together to the JACC (seats have been saved). FREE FOOD! BRING YOUR PARENTS! 
Kimberly -The strangeness never ends here at good ol' NO. The Fightin' Irish have now been ren­dered Holtzless, if you haven't heard. It's chaotic. Who the hell knows what's gonna happen? My God, what are we gonna do at the end of the third quarter? By the way, the boxing reference, that was me, if you didn't figure that one out. I still can't believe you're doing that. Anyway, I gots to go. Go Guinness! 
Bill McNamara, Ryan Larkin & Craig "Nook" Wieber-I'm really sorry guys. I should have men­tioned you all in the Article. I'm retarded. My apologies. -Kevin Cooney 
Now, what you all have been anx­iously awaiting, from the home office in 1025 Flanner. here's the latest AP Waverace Poll: 
1. 
Mac (of course, he beat Hanson) 

2. 
Da House 

3. 
Spoon man (this is a gift) 

4. 
Krame Dog (with 69 votes) 

5. 
Girsch-bone (Rebel-lover) 

6. 
Fales (a.k.a., the Ricker) 

7. 
Chubbers 

8. 
RignaBomber 

9. 
C-note 

10. 
a-ball 


Sobs really doesn't have big thighs. So girls, what did you think of your two superfans? Personally, I thought we were pretty cool. 
-~-~--~-----~--~----~------~-~-~ ~--­
page 12 The Observer • SPORTS Thursday, November 21, 1996 
Northwestern's record was a
• WOMENS'S BASKETBALL 
hideous 23-107-2, including
Barnett 
three 11-loss seasons . 
By the time Barnett arrived
No. 14 Irish fall to top-ranked Vols • 
continued from page 16 
in '92, conversation in ry that were zapped from Evanston simply concerned
off the Irish to advance to the points and nine rebounds, 
winning one or two Big Ten
finals against host Louisiana. while, after getting off to a slow coach Lou Holtz on November 
games, never mind a Big Ten
Bid for upset 
McGraw's squad found them­start, Beth Morgan chipped in 20, 1993. 
selves down 19 points with just 13. The Loyalists remember well title. 
It only took four years of
under 12 minutes to play. They Early in the contest the when Barnett first stepped into
comes up 
the permanent spotlight. On bringing in his own players and 
came back to give the Lady Vols squads were knotted at 14 weeding out the old. 
a scare. The Domers closed the before the Domers' fantastic September 2, 1995, thejust short margin to just six points with duo of Gaither and Morgan Wildcats splattered the lloltz­The line on Barnett remains 
6:04 remaining but succumbed combined to give the Irish the led Irish all over Notre Dame the same -he is a relentless 
recruiter, one who frequently
72-59. lead at 18-14. With 4:28 Stadium, snatching victory
By JOE CAVATO 
"This was a great opportunity remaining until halftime Notre away from the heavy favorites, outrecruits his fellow col­
Spons Writer leagues.
to see where we are," McGraw Dame freshman Julie 17-15. commented. "Coming in here Henderson pushed their lead to It was perhaps the most con­At the same time, he pro­
The season has barely gotten duces on the field when the
and playing well is really what the biggest they would have, sequential victory in 
out of the gates and already the stakes arc highest. Five of
our goal was. And I felt like we 24-19. Northwestern football history,
Notre Dame women's basket­and the script had been engi­Northwestern's nine wins this
did t.?at for about thirty min­However, Holdsclaw's 6-2ball squad has a good idea of year came in the final 30 sec­
utes. frame and Irish turnovers neered by Barnett himself.
how it can run. 
Notre Dame did not help their turned the tide as Tennessee From then on, the head coach onds. 
After cruising by Kent last While the coach ought never
cause as they totaled 22 closed the half with a 15-3 run made believers out of his 'Cats,
Friday and upsetting the sixth­and he led them straight to take all the credit for this, a
turnovers, which turned into 35 for a seven point lead at the
ranked Iowa llawkeyes, head team's winning hunger and
points for their opponents. half. "We were controlling the their first Rose-Bowl appear­
coaeh Mull'et McGraw was hop­ance since 1949. proper execution starts with its
Tennessee's Chamique tempo and had the playing ouring to maintain their quick start lloldsclaw dominated by scor­type of game. But, we got care­Barnett's Rose Bowl plans coach. 
as they battled Tennessee in While Barnett in many ways
ing 22 points and grabbing 12 less with the ball. Defensively, began long before the 1995
the semifinals of the women's boards, thus turning away the we also had a couple of lapses season though. When he intro­then would be ideal for the 
National Invitation Tournament Notre Dame job, other con­
Irish hopes for an upset. the last five minutes of the half, duced himself to the
Tunsday night. 
Irish center Katryna Gaither and I think that was where the Northwestern student body in cerns exist besides his own The national perennial power 
continued her fine play with 20 game was decided."
and defending champs fended 

Observer Staff Report their record to 3-1 and earn lead the Irish. Rosanne third place in the women's Bohman and Jeannine 
The Notre Dame women's National Invitat~l)nal A'(tgustin, . e(l in ~. 5 · .. ~ basketball team, rankt}d four­Tournament. ··· and 10 p ; re;...,tl ·ly. teenth in the nation, upset the Senior center Katryna Beth Morgan led t;.;" Irish eigth-ranked North Carolina Gaither poured in 
a game­with six ass~sts. Se r· State Wolfpack 64-53. high 24 points h · 10 row' · · 
With the win the Irish push rebounds and four to :d~til:" 
Please Recycle The Observer 
Make a Difference With ... OCCUPATIONAL THERAP\' 
Improve Your Patients' Quality ofLife 
Occupational therapy is a 90-year-old health care profession concerned with the use of purposeful physical and me~ tal activities for individuals who are challenged by physical and/or psychosocial disabilities, develop­mental or learning disabilities, poverty or cultural differences, or the aging process. Occupational therapists work with these patients to maxi­mize independence, improve quality of life, minimize disability, and maintain health. 
.. 
January of 1992, he conclud'ed desire to take tho job. For his remarks with a promise of instance, how would buying out "·taking the Purple to a $1 million contract adhere to Pasadena." Already, we can the "values of Notre Damn" 
see Barnett at the podium of that Wadsworth and the Joyce Center, visions of Beauchamp championed last championships dancing in our Tuesday? heads. -The hiring of Barnett would 
Gary Barnett resembl-es a perhaps make the two eat their dazzling magician, or hypnotist own words. perhaps, one whose work Is a national championship leaves onlookers paralyzed worth $1 million? Notre Dame with disbelief. will find out soon enough. His accomplishments in his "I don't think you ever say five years at Northwestern fall never or always," Barnett said 
just short of mind-boggling, recently. p?rt.icularly when one consid­"I don't know at this point in ers tte fact that from 1980-91, time." 
r-----------------'----~-­
Join a Rapidly Growing P1·ojession 
1 
According to U.S. Department of Labor statistics, occupational therapy MIDWESTERN UNIVERSITY ts among the fastest growing health care professions, with the number of 
OCCUPATIONAL THERAPY PROGRAM 
available positions rcHaling '5'5,000 nationally with an expected increase Please send me rhe following information (Check all that apply): in new positions approaching 60% by the year 2000. 
0 OT Program Catalog 0 OT Program Brochure 0 Admission Application 
Study With the Health Gare Team at Midwestern University 
Name 
Midwestern University's College of Allied Health Professions otTers a _)0­momh, entry-level program in occupational therapy leading to a .'vlaster 
Address 
of Occupational Therapy degree. The program includes classroom learn­ing and 2.) weeks of full~time clinical experience.You will work closely City/State/Zip 
with students in the College's Physical Therapy program as part of o~r interdisciplinary approach to therapy education. The Universirv, which Undergraduate/Graduate College is located in Downers Grove, Illinois (a western suburb of Chi~ago) also 
Projected Enrollment Date 
administers colleges of osteopathic medicine and pharmacy. ' 
Phone
Learn more about a career in occupational therapy at Midwestern University by returning the form or calling 630-515-6188. 
Return to Office ofAdmissions, Mid~ University; 555 31st St., Downers Grow, IL 60515 
--------------"---------~--­
Thursday, November 21, 1996 The Observer • SPORTS -page 13 
ment on the coaching situation, thing I did when I became head for Notre Dame when Holtz was "The Head Coach. "The skep­but extensively praised his for­coach was to make Bob our



Davie 
down and out. The Irish rolled tics point to the fact that Notre mer assistant. defensive coordinator. He over Vanderbilt 41-0 and the Dame football has never hired a 
continued from page 16 "First of all, I don't want to cares about his players more players carried Davie off the former assistant coach from make comments if Coach Holtz than anyone I've seen. He is an field, an indication of the their within the program. Then '92, '94. and '95 recognized is still the coach," Slocum said intense competitor who always appreciation and affection for again, Notre Dame never hired him as the top defensive coordi­yesterday. "I have tremendous worked at his job." 
the ever-personable coach. a high school football coach 
nator in the country. respect for Coach Holtz and for Davie is also proven under The moment was the pinnacle until1980. Texas A&M football coach Coach Davie. pressure. He has been involved of his coaching career, one Michael Wadsworth himself 
R.C. Slocum, who knows Davie "Bob and I worked together in 15 bowl games during his 18 which made people realize that declared that he had no prob­best from Davie's days with the "when I was an assistant at years as assistant coach. Last someday soon, Davie would be 
lem with a highly-experiencedAggies, was reluctant to com-A&M. I liked him and the first year he served as interim coach a head coach. Now he may be assistant, namely Davie, to fill 

(400-level and 500-level ENGL courses are "by permission "for non-majors) 
We would also like to invite students interested in the Undergraduate Concentration in Irish Studies to meet with Professor Seamus Deane at 7:30p.m. on Thursday, November 21st in 105 O'Shaughnessy Hall. 
Information about the program and sign up opportunities will be announced and made available at that meeting. 



··<$$:r ~••
• Hudson's Holiday •
$Hudoon'• iol~!~P.!~! MMI<d p<oplo \ 
who can bring fun, mirth, mischief, and laughter to our guests. This is not a typical sales associate position but more a public relations position where some of the job functions would be: 
• 
Greet guests and share holiday happenings ~ ~ throughout the store. " WSKILLS & ABIUTI~ W 

• 
Escort guests through the shopping experience REEffQUIREDt': " 'th h l'd h kl' • ec Ive


WI a o I ay c ec ISt communicat'1o 
• 
Demonstrate "Random Acts .of Kindness" for all skills n 

guests and associates when not assisting guests • Problem solving with their holiday gift selections ability 

• 
Develop general knowledge ofthe entire store • Interactive social 

• 
In an energetic, upbeat manner, provide a gift skills shopping service throughout the store, either by • Ability to maintain accompanying the guest or utilizing the guest's ~ a good sense of ~ 


shopping list ~ humor ~ 
If you have the skills and abilities listed ~ 
above and want to experience the wonders r of the holiday season please contact Hudson's Human Resource Office at 

• (219)271-6204 and ask for Lydia • 
··~ ~·· 
The Donald and Marilyn Keough Center for Irish Studies is delighted to announce its courses for Spring, 1997 
3856  COIG 102:01  Beginning Irish II  
3857  COIG301:01  The Irish in Their Own Words  
3868  ENGL 300V:01  Literature in a Divided Ireland  
3878  ENGL 372A:01  Modem Irish Literature  
3901  ENGL 470B:01  Joyce and Baldwin  
3902  ENGL 470F:01  Irish Poetry After Yeats  
3917  ENGL 540A:01  Shakespeare and Beckett  
3919  ENGL570:01  Modem British and Irish Poetry  
3548  HIST 327:01  Irish History II  
4336  HIST 328:01  The Great Irish Famine and Its Impacts  
3616  HIST 573:01  Ireland in the Age of Revolution  
4369  HIST642:01  Sources and Resources for Irish Studies  
2056  SOC 374:01  Irish Americans  

MWF 9:35-10:25 MWF 11:45-12:35 
MWF 1:55-2:45 T H 2:00-3:15 T H 3:30-4:45 T H 5:00-6:16 MW 3:00-4:15 T H 4:30-5:45 
MWF 9:35-10:25 T H 11:00-12:15 MW 3:00-4:15 T H 2:00-4:00 
T H 11:00-12:15 Peter McQuillan Peter McQuillan 
Kathleen Hohenleitner John Waters Cyraina Johnson-Roullier John Waters James Robinson John Matthias 
James Smyth Kevin Whelan James Smyth Kevin Whelan 
Patrick Sullivan, CSC 
ADVERTISEMENT 
................... ~o ~ 
22 
HOCKEY/V 
AT BOWLING GREEN 
THE GOAL OF THIS SPORTSWEEKEND IS TO INFORM STUDENTS ABOUT SPORTS. NIKE DOES NOT SPONSOR ANY SPORTS ON THIS CAMPUS. THIS AD DOES NOT IN ANY WAY IMPLY SUCH SPONSORSHIP. 



0 IOBJSiffiEND 0_.=~=:-----,.:~=::
.. 
23 
FOOTBALL/¥ 
VS. RUTGERS STADIUM, 1:30PM (TV: NBC, 1:30PM) 
VOLLEYBALL/¥ 
BIG EAST CHAMPIONSHIPS AT UNIV. OF PITTSBURGH 
HOCKEY/V 
AT MIAMI (OHIO) 
WOMEN'S BASKETBALL/¥ 
AT BOWLING GREEN 1:30PM 
24 
VOLLEYBALL/¥ 
BIG EAST CHAMPIONSHIPS AT UNIV. OF PITTSBURGH 
MEN'S BASKETBALL/¥ 
VS. MONMOUTH JACC, 2:00PM 
Let your NIKE student rep know the time and location ofyour events for next mqnth. Reach her at: col/een.henshaw@nike.com. 
the void. 
"While it may be a lot easier to take a head coach, if there is an assistant coach that you know well who has the poten­tial and the capacity, that cer­tainly substitutes for experi­ence." 
As a student Youngstown State in the mid-1970s, Bob Davie aspired to be a teacher. He played for his school's foot­ball team, but only gave pass­ing consideration to actually coaching football. A conversa­tion with Jean Phillips (now 
.athletic director at Villanova) changed his life. 
"He was the offensive coordi­nator at Youngstown when I was a senior, and he was only 22 or 23 years old" recalls Davie. "He had already been a graduate assistant at Tennessee and so he was really working his way to the top. Well, we went 9-or 10-2 the year before and we had a lot of guys back, so we had high expectations. Unfortunately, we lost two of our first four games, and things weren't going so good." 
One day Coach Phillips visited Davie's dorm room. 
"We had a real heart to heart conversation for about an hour or two," Davie continues. "And then he said to me, 'Have you thought about coaching?· Before that I kind of had it in my mind that I was going to teach, but Jean convinced me [to be a coach] and I never looked back from there." 
Indeed, Davie moved on to be a graduate assistant at Pittsburgh in 1977, linebackers coach at Arizona in '78 and '79, linebackers coach at Pitt from 1980-82, and defensive coordi­nator and assistant head coach at Tulane in '83 and '84, before moving on to College Station. 
Now in his third season at Notre Dame, Davie has finally molded his philosophy and style into a defense he can call his own. He has helped attract the nation's top players and he has instilled a certain reckless abandon and nasty attitude into his crew. 
"We've developed into a pret­ty good defensive team, and we're young in the secondary," analyzes Davie. 
As for his future, the onlook­ers can only guess whether Davie will remain at Notre Dame if he is not offered the head position. 
He is, however, happy at Notre Dame. 
"I like the atmosphere here. Everything revolves around Notre Dame and Notre Dame football and that's what my life revolves around. I like college towns where nothing else is going on." 
Bob Davie has been at the crossroads before. Last winter he came within a handshake of coaching in sunny California. He is also the one who turned down a head coaching position at the University of Oklahoma, and he has said "no thank you" to the NFL. Now he can only sit back and wait. 
"Someday I will be a head coach. I want to be at a place where I put every ounce of energy and time into the pro­gram, and it's a place where I want to stay for a long time, a place with no limits, where I can sink my family into." 
One can only hope Michael 
Wadsworth is listening. 


We have started to tal{e applications for next year. 
• 
Furnished apartments 

• 
Swimming pool 



Apartments
• 
Jacuzzi 

• 
Tennis~ volleyball, & 



available for 
basketball courts 

your selection.
• 
24 hour laundry 

• 
Shuttle bus 


For more information 
• Professional call272-1441
management 



EAT UP! 
~--------------------------------------------------------------­
page 14 .•. • SAINT MARY'S BASKETBAll 
New coach 'honored' 
By ANGELA OLSEN Saint Mary's Spores Editor 
When the Saint Mary's basketball team takes the floor on Friday night in their first match of the new season, a new face on the sidelines will be leading them. 
Thn man the players will look to as their new head coach is Dave Hoeder of South Bend. Hoeder succeeds Marv Wood, who held the position for the last twelve years. 
''I'm excited about the opportunity," commented Roeder on his new position. "It's been a lifelong goal." 
Hoeder brings a wealth of experience into his new posi­tion. lie has been involved in coaching for the past twelve
.. 
years in both the high school and collegiate levels. 
Currently, Hoeder is the head coach ·of the Brandywine Junior/Senior High School girls' varsity basketball team in Niles. Michigan. lie will con­tinue to keep this position in addition to his new role as head coach for the Belles. 
Prior to this, Roeder was head coach at Gorham Fayette lligh School in Fayette, Ohio and North Central High School in Pioneer, Ohio, where he re­ceived the District VII Coach of the Year award. 
Hoeder also served as head women's junior varsity coach at Doane College in Crete, Nebraska and assistant women's basketball coach at Colorado Northwestern. 
While at Doane College Roeder developed a team that reached the National Association Intercollegiate Athletics National Tournament and coached a junior varsity team that won 31 consecutive games. 
In the past Hoeder has often been instrumental in develop­ing teams. He looks to do the same for the Belles in their new season. 
"II'm) trying to teach a new system to improve upon last year and develop a program approach." 
Hoeder says that he feels "very honored" to succeed the legendary Marv Wood. 
The Observer· SPORTS 
x-c;ountry 
continued from page 16 
the Irish topped last year's dis­trict performance with the vic­tory. 
"I didn't think we had a solid race until districts," said Rexing. "If we had run like the districts as we had run at the Big East, we would have won the Big East by 20 points." 
Coach Piane feels there is a big difference between last year's team and the present version. 
"We're a better team than last year," Piane said. "We have four potential All­Americans and last year we only had one." 
Notre Dame faces tough chal­lenges to improve upon last 
beeni()Oking f~r. ways,. t() Win 
as they've gotten off to their worst Start since 1993·94 sea.. son. The solution on 
year's eighth-place finish. The University of Arkansas is the defending champion and enters the meet with the same team as last year and the number-one ranking in the nation. 
Stanford, Colorado, Oklahoma State and Oregon, along with the Irish, are the teams that should challenge the Razorbacks for the national title. 
"We could place in the top six," said Piane. "Our goal is the top four. We don't have to improve. We have to repro­duce our efforts of the last two weeks. If we step it up, God knows how we'll be." 
Rexing feels that, like last year, Notre Dame's fortunes are looking up at the end of the season. 
"Nationals are always unpre­dictable," said Rexing. "We are 
··winning solution 
was defense. Miller, who scored 22 points to 
22 turnovers, lead Indiana. "We did a real good job on their shooters and our guys up front did a great 
Sixers settle for outside shots job on the boards." iD a 103-92 victory. "We haven't been playing ''1 thought our defense was that badly even though we've the story tonight." said Reggie been losing," Miller said. 
Thursday, November 21, 1996 
on an upswing though, whern a lot of teams are on down­swings." 
The team's goal at the begin­ning of the season was the NCAA meet, the team has achieved that goal. Now, that the Irish arc five days away from competition, the only goal now is to qualify in the top-H). 
"You gag a season by your championship meets," said Hexing. "llopefully, we'll re­deem ourselves (from the Big East meet) at the Nationals." 
Coach Piano is content with just being at the national meet. 
"Only 22 teams qualify for the meet out of 292 teams in the nation," s,aid Piane. "That means 270 are sitting at home. You get to the meet you have a very good team. To place in the top 10 would be a hell of a year." 

-~----------­
Thursday, November 21, 1996 The Observer • TODAY page 15 
CREAM 0' THE VALLEY ROAD ED LEADER YOUR HOROSCOPE JEANE DIXON 
-

MIKE PETERS 
SCOTT ADAMS 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
-=11:-:1r.:-11=1r.:-1 


HAPPY BIRTHDAY! IN THE NEXT YEAR OF YOUR LIFE: Lady Luck is your almost-constant companion. Your personal life will more than live up to your expecta­tions' Be willing to go the extra mile for business or career progress. then enjoy a well-deserved vacation in a warm climate. A robust romance beckons early in 1997. Steer a steady course where family life is concerned. Children benefit from stability. An unexpected gift or bonus will let you do something special for your loved ones. 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: actress Goldie Hawn, baseball great Ken Griffey Jr.. Vani­ty Fair editor Tina Brown, ballet great Natalia Makarova. 
ARIES <March 21-April 19): Doing one thing at a time pays handsome dividends. Listen to a 
younger person's ad\'ice. Recipro­cating favors wins you new fans. 
ALEX... A 
Business tends to be on-again, off­again. 
BLACK WIDOW 
SPIPfRr, 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Ride the tide now regardless of what your associates or rivals say. Remember, they have their own agenda. Take time to analyze a situ­ation before voicing an opinion. 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Working at home is productive and stimulating. You can reduce distrac­tions by screening your phone calls. It may be necessary to change your
' 
plans for the evening.
AC.e:X iR665KS t,AST SHOW 
l SNEI>.K DOWN 1-\E.R£. ONCE A WEEK AND MOVE THIS GUY'S 
cue,I(LE. WALL IN BY A QUARTER-INCH. 
55 Straightened (out) 57 Snaps 58 "I'm a beauty," said Venus de 
Milo~­
61 Like big shoes to fill? 62 Designer Simpson 63 Donnybrook 64 Giants make them, briefly 65 "Chill!" 66lnge contemporary 
DOWN 
1 Open up, in a' way 2 Turn hastily 3 Continuous arrival 4 Foreign title of honor 5 Goes without purpose 6 Bit 
26 Roper subjects
7 Dir. heading 29 Germfree 
8 One beheaded by Perseus 31 Deny 9 Insect's sense 34 Trombonist organ Winding 10 "Romeo and 36~­Juliet" event phenomena 11 Trancelike state 37Steam 12-500 rooms 13 Lustrous 38 Mideast flier 
18 Nursery arrivals 39 Deflected, as a 
22 "Tosca" soprano question 
25Smell--41 Child 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): Refuse to take on a burden that should be shouldered by someone else. Getting involved in a friend's love life would be a mistake. Be
WHAT'S THIS 
supportive. but avoid giving advice. 
I FORGET.
~ 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): When
EXPER.H'\ENT 
IT'S BE.EN 
traveling, try to choose a route that
N 
GOING TO 
will let you avoid traffic jams. You
fl.. LONG
~ 
,.. 
PI\O\JE7
"' 
TLI"\E. 

• 
Answers to any three clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420-5656 (751': per minute). 
Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-B88-7-ACROSS. 
need to be lkXtbk if appointmcm\ 
are postponed or canceled. Romance 
will stall if you push too hard. 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Scpt. 22): 
Although an idea interests you, you 
may lack the motivation to act on it. 
Paying closer attention to detail\ 
will prevent careless mistakes. Tak­
ing a bold approach in romance will 
net you a special date. 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Curh an urge to be extravagant. Putting your money imo practical ventures will lead to greater financial securi­ty. Save up for that dream home' 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21 ): Owning property increases your clout. Family members may offer financial assistance if you are buy­ing real estate. Be prepared to pay interest. Follow your heart in romance. 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21 ): Avoid acting all wrapped up in yourself. Put your mate's needs first for a change. An expert's financial advice helps you meet a crisis suc­cessfully. 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Surprises on the home front are something to write about. Be careful what you say, however, lest you embarrass loved ones. Your goals could change following a talk with an older and wiser friend. 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb, 18): Keep any self-doubts to yourself. You have what it takes to succeed' Steer clear of someone who always seems negative. Instead seek out people who think positive. 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Make a decision that will benefit everyone involved. A health prob­lem may be related to emotional stress or job dissatisfaction. Although loved ones want to help, they lack expertise. 


Wanted: Reporters, photographers and editors. Join The Observer staff 
DILBERT 
WHAT ARE. 'fOU DOING IN THE MARKETING DE.PAP..TI"\E.NT7 

CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 
1 Tobacco ptpe 
6 Emulate Lorelet 
11 Platters. now 
14 "HelpI" co-star 
15 Keep --to the ground 
16 Circus exclamation 
17 "Where's my watch?" asked Captain Hook 
19 Nautical chain 
20 Burning 21 Buffalo area 
23 Actor Gulager 24 1955 Kentucky Derby winner 
27 Wyoming peak 28 Prefix with -gram 
30 Pen point style 32 Emaciated 33 Toast 35 Old toothpaste 
brand 37 "Get lost. Toto!" shouted the Ttn 
Man~­
39 Stop by unexpectedly 40 1961 Heston role 41 TV detective Houston 42 Start of a fast break, often 44 "Like--not 
48 Circular 50 "It's--in the 
face" 52 Soul, in St.-L6 53 Summons, e.g. 
43 Cordlike ornament 45 Hair problem 46 Diner order 47 Goes back to brunette, e.g. 49 Durable wood 
51 Ensemble's leading part 54 Team 56 Like a line 59 In the manner of 60 Popular name fora dog 
-









SPORTS 
page 16 Thursday, November 21, 1996 
Who's it goin 
to be? 

Bob Davie has been rumored as the favorite for the head coaching job at Purdue. 
Irish defensive coordinator has support ofteam members 
By T. RYAN KENNEDY 
Sports Writer 
Bob Davie has reached the cross­roads of his football coaching career. It would be easy if he had to choose the road less traveled by, but these cross­roads do not even provide choice. This time Davie's destiny is out of his own hands. Within the next several days, the Notre Dame administration will make a decision on "The Head Coach," and Davie heads the list of front-run­nnrs. 
This is a momentous call for the authorities. This will determine who the playnrs hoist in tiHl air when Notre Dame wins its next championship. This event may yet surpass the gross nxcitement output of the nation's recent presidential election. 
Davie joins Northwestern's Gary 
Barnett at the top of athletic director Michael Wadsworth's Christmas wish list, which is a lot shorter than people think. 
Like Barnett, Davie has paid his dues. He is the architect of one of the top defenses in the country, and this is not his first monster. As defensive coordinator at Texas A&M from 1989 to 1994. Davie shaped a series of top­flight defenses, including the notorious "Wrecking Crew" defense that led the nation in total defense in 1991 (222.4 yards per game) and ranked third in 1993 (24 7.6 yards). 
At the same time, Davie sent every linebacker he ever coached at A&M to the NFL, including Quentin Coryatt, Marcus Buckley and Aaron Wallace. The result was merely expected: pre­season publications in the summers of 
see DAVIE I page 13 

,-------~~--------------------------~--~--------~~~-, 
Northwestern's Gary Barnett (right) is unsure if he wants Lou Holtz's former job. 

Despite alleged offer, Wildcats' coach still weighing his options 
By T. RYAN KENNEDY 
Sports Writer 
As the days unravel from The Resignation, the whispers and lingers point more than ever to the man from Evanston, Ill. Gary Barnett never did look sharp in purple anyway, and it remains seemingly a matter of time before Northwestern's head coach dons the gold and blue. 
Already, Notre Dame loyalists cannot resist the temptation to compare the arrival of Barnett with that of Ara Parseghian's grand entrance in 1964. The cliche, "history repeats itself." has never been used more. When Parseghian strolled into South Bend, he brought with him a mediocre record of :~6-35-1 in eight seasons at Northwestern. lie then resurrected a Notre Dame program that had wal­lowed in misery years earlier. Barnett in some respects has the chance to do the same. This time, the only remedy is a national championship. 
Barnett, however, continues to sub­vert his feelings on the position. 
"Notre Dame officials have asked me if I want to be considered as a candi­date for their head coaching position," Barnett stated late Tuesday. "Presently, I am taking this under con­sideration. Once I have had time to fully consider my options, I will let them know of my decision as to whether I wish to be considered for the job. I will not comment further on this issue until that time," he contimwd. 
Barnett undoubtedly wants the job, and many argue he is the candidate with the most experience. lie certainly possesses the magical powers of vkto­
see BARNETT I page 12 
• MEN's CROSS COUNTRY 

Irish runners prepare for NCAAs 
By WILLY BAUER 
Sporrs Writer 
Once again the Irish are back at the national finals. 
For the sixth time in the 1990's, Notre Dame's men's cross-country team will be
• participating in the NCAA championship meet, on November 25. The meet is held in Arizona. where the Irish pre­viously posted a seventh-place finish against several ranked teams on September 1<J. 
llistory has been kind to the Irish harriers at the NCAA
.. championships: four top-H) finishes in the previous live ap­pearances at the nationals. 
"''m pumped," said coach Joe Piane. "If the fellas produce like they did last week, bad. 
Actually, how we did at the Big East championships, we should do very well." 
Clearly the Irish are running with high spirits after the District IV meet. The Irish won the meet against highly-touted teams, qualifying four runners in the top 10. Joe Dunlop had his best rest of the year, finish­ing out the quartet in tenth­place in the meet. 
Matt Althoff and Derek Seiling have been very consis­tent all season. Both have been among the top finishers in every meet the Irish have run in. 
Jason Rexing has been the hottest Domer runner in recent weeks. lie finished in second place at both the Big East championship and the District IV meet. He was an important cog in Piane's running machine that has turned it on as of late. 
"I feel pretty good," said Hexing. "I feel I can be right up there in the front challenging for the top-20. I expect to be an All-American." 
The Irish squads are in simi­lar positions as they were last year, when both teams saved their best performances for the final meets of the year. 
Last year, the team finished in third place at the Big East championships and second place at the District meet, before notching an eighth-place finish at the NCMs. This year the Irish did not do as well in the Big East (fourth place), but 
see X-COUNTRY I page 14 

The Observer/Sarah O'Conner 
The Irish cross-country team travels to Arizona for the NCAAs. 

NCM Tournament • Belles hoopsters have new coach
vs. Rutgers 
vs. Wisconsin
~-November 23. 12:30 p.m. 
November 24, 1996 see page 14

(•' aJ
-
~ 
\_ 
NCM Tournament
at Bowling Green 
(.., •• •Irish women take third place
at UNC-Greensbore
Tomorrow, 12:30 p.m. 
November 24, 1 p.m. CI:J 
see page 12 
-
Basketball 
• Belle signs with Sox
Big East Championships 
. at Kalamazoo College 
November 23 ~ ~
~ Tomorrow, 6 p.m. 
see page II 





