
Friday, February 21, 1997 • Vol. XXX No. 96 THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND ' 
Construction to begin on State Road 23 
B s· 
due to environmental con-u Iness owners worry cerns regarding relocation ----··at,·.~.­
0

about safety, loss of of~~ters~~~y ~~~·munity . 
members are afraid the 
customers during two 
enterprise will create more
problems than the traffic congestion it should allevi­


ate. With businesses and 
residential neighborhoods By MICHELLE KRUPA lining the road, consider­Assistant News Editor able pedestrian traffic flows 
through the area. With five State Road 23, known locally as South Bend Ave., lanes, safety is a concern. will finally undergo improvement thanks to a $13.8 "[Legislators] haven't 
million contract awarded by the Indiana Department of taken into consideration the Transportation (INDOT) last Wednesday. The five-lan­character of this area. This ing of the street from Cleveland Road to Twyckenham, is a high pedestrian area 
originally set for completion in 1994, was postponed and when you build a five lane highway, you're going to have pedestrian fatali­ties. This decision is dan­gerous to the community," Dave Frank, owner of Frank's Delicatessen on South Bend Ave., said. Claire Myers, manager of . . . . The Observer/Katie Kroener Cam us View A artments, In an attempt to all~v1ate traffic congest1on !n the_are~ bet\~een ca'!lpu.s .and University 

Constructl·on seaso·ns 
P d . . P Park Mall, construction on State Road 23 will begm th1s spnng turnmg 1t mto a five-lane 
expresse Simi1ar concerns. highway. ' "I am most worried about 
"We [legislators] have had meetings with concerned

safety, especially during home football weekends. A lot 
business owners, and there is no easy solution. There

of the kids that live here don't have cars, and they 
was an option of getting the road narrowed slightly to

have to walk to campus and other places. I know it's 
four lanes, but this [five-laning] is the best option. To

sometimes impossible to drive onto 23, but with five 
be honest, I've always been concerned with pedestrian

lanes, it will be dangerous to walk," Myers said. 
traffic, no matter how many lanes," Zakas said. 

State Senator Joseph Zakas expressed related fears, 
He also expressed concern for the community during but says the anticipated benefits will outweigh the pos­sible drawbacks. 

see ROAD I page 4 

• STUDENT GOVERNMENT


RFK, Jr. will.discuss 
Saferide to debut tonight 
environmental defense 
By MATTHEW LOUGHRAN are ready to go. We have imag­from any off-campus locationBy BRIDGET O'CONNOR dents from Catholic colleges and Assistant News Editor ined every possible scenario and within two miles of the 
Assistant News Editor universities across the nation 
everyone has been very coopera­University.
together to discuss the role of At 10 p.m. tonight, Saferid; tive, from ROTC to the Office of "We will pick students up fromAs the chief prosecuting attor­the student in discussions about

• will take its first passengers from Alcohol and Drug Education and the movies, the mall, Beacon 
ney for the Hudson Riverkeeper the Catholic identity of colleges an off-campus location to their Student Affairs. It has really Bowl, wherever they may be, and organization and senior attorney and universities. 
homes. 
been a community-wide effort." drive them home," said Miller.
for the Natural Resources The senior attorney for the 
The service, The service will run from 10 "It is not just for alcohol and
Defense Council, Robert Natural Resources Defense 
established by p.m. until 3 a.m. on Friday and bars."
Kennedy Jr. has a reputation as Council, Kennedy is also a clini­student gov­Saturday nights. Although orga­Unlike its predecessor,a resolute defender of the envi-cal professor and supervising ernment, real­nizers ask that all students sign Weekend Wheels, Saferide onlyronment. attorney at the izes one of the insurance waivers in order to drives students to their homes
This image Environmental 
priorities set ride, they will put a temporary and does not follow a schedule.
has been built ---~ ·-·" ~-· Litigation Clinic by Student system into place for the first few "With the old service, you had toat Pace Univer­
on _his success-'w·e brought [RFK] 
B o d y weekends. be at a specific place at a specifices m the areas sity School of President and Miller "We will give people temporary · time," Detgen said. "It would beof prosecuting to campus Law in New Vice President waivers that they will have to at Bridget's at one time, Corby's 
governments because we felt... [it] York. 
Seth Miller and Megan Murray at sign when we pick them up," a few minutes later and so on.
He has worked

and companies would be relevant to an the beginning of their adminis­said Molly Detgen, the organizer We do not take students from bar
for pollutmg the . . on several politi­tration. of the program, "Then, the next to bar, we just take them home." 
Hudson River audience of Catholic cal campaigns 
"This was something we talked day they will be asked to fill out Currently, the service is onlyand Long Island students concerned and was state about when we were considering the actual waivers. But we open to Notre Dame students.
sound and for coordinator for 
running for office last year," said decided that it was safer if we But, according to Detgen, "we
about their role as citi­

suing sewage Edward Ken­
Miller. "We started it into motion not leave students waiting in a are working out the details with 
treatment zens in our society.' nedy's 1980 
in late October." parking lot." Saint Mary's student government plants to force presidential cam­"It was a lot of work to get it Notre Dame students can call to get them included in the pro­
compliance paign. 
done," added Murray. "But we the dispatch num~er {631-9888) gram soon." 
with the Clean Thomas Matzzie Kennedy is Water Act. also noted for his Kennedy will bring his mes­work in assisting several indige­
Latin church influences America 
sage to Stepan Center tonight in nous tribes in Latin America and his talk titled, "Our Canada in successfully negotiat­
By HEATHER MACKENZIE 1) A survey conducted by the Hemisphere," the 28-minute
Environmental Destiny." ing treaties protecting traditional 
News Copy Editor Notre Dame social science video documentary produced
"We brought Robert Kennedy, homelands. 
training lab to analyze the role by Golden Dame Productions.
Jr. to campus because we felt The New York City Watershed The growing relationship of parishes, dioceses, the reli­The video was designed to
that his speech about social agreement is another of his 
between the churches in Latin gious community, and colleges portray a personal view of the responsibility would be relevant highly publicized environmental America and the United States and universities; 2) A video Church's influence in Latinto an audience of Catholic stu­activities as it is regarded as an was the focus of a lecture pre­documentary to show personal American countries. Itdents concerned about their role international model in stake­sented yesterday afternoon. · footage of missionary work in explained that beginning in as citizens in our society," said holder consensus negotiations Father Robert Pelton, profes­different Latin American com­1961 with Pope John PaulThomas Matzzie, president of and sustainable development. 
sor in the Notre Dame depart­munities; 3) A book project XXIII, the United States beganthe National Association of Graduating from Harvard ment of theology, opened by commissioned by the confer­an outreach program to helpStudents at Catholic Colleges and University, Kennedy studied at explaining the Latin American ence to document the findings Latin America become moreUniversities (NASCCU). the London School of Economics project undertaken by the of the study. self-sufficient.
Kennedy's speech will be the and received his law degree 
National Conference of "We are concentrating on "There is a stereotype that
keynote address of the NASC­from the University of Virginia Catholic Bishops. . our role and our response [in poor people are only definedCU's Seventh Annual National Law School. 
Pelton explained that the Latin America] in the context by their poverty," the videoConference. The focus of the The speech will take place at project included three main of the bishops and the Catholic explained. "But they can giveconference is "Social Justice 7:30p.m. Tickets are $3 for stu­steps to determine the influ­Church," Pelton said. us so much. Life is not aboutActivism on the Catholic dents and $5 for the general ence of the American religious Pelton began by presentingCampus" and will bring 70 stu-public. 
community on Latin America: "Sharing Faith Across the see lATIN I page 4 


~--------~--------~----~------------------------~----~~~~--~---~-~ ~-~-~-~~~~------------­
page 2 
• INSIDE COlUMN 
No virtue in the governlllent 
Recently, I had a particularly moving experi­ence at the Grotto. I still am not entirely sure what it meant, but I know that many have shared some of their most beautiful or tragic moments with the God ~~~~~~~':"" 


they seek among.those stones and candles. In reflecting on that night, I remember feeling as if I had an increased sense of perception on my walk home afterwards. The religious artwork on God Quad seemed to stand out in a way that it hadn't before. From the statue of Jesus to Mary Brandon Williams 
AssistanrViewpoinr Editor 

on the Dome . to the stained glass windows of 
the Basilica -they all seemed to be more 
defined than usual. 
We take that artwork for granted here at ND. 
We forget what it stands for. One concept for 
which it stands, among many others, is virtue. 
It seems wholly appropriate at a Catholic 
school to be surrounded by images possessing 
a virtuous connotation. One place it certainly 
does not seem appropriate today is in govern­
ment. 
Our nations leaders have lately been swept 
with an astonishing number of ethical charges. 
From Rostenkowski to Gingrich to President 
Clinton -the list is mind-boggling. I certainly 
am not trying to come off as holier than thou. 
God knows that I am not. All people make mis­
takes in their personal lives and none of us is 
without blame. However, no matter what, 
there should be a distinction between what 
goes on in the private lives of our leaders and 
what goes on in the public corridors of our gov­
ernment. 
The latest possible scandal concerns allega­
tions that the Chinese embassy may have 
received U.S. secrets or policy benefits in 
exchange for campaign contributions to the 
Democratic Party. This scandal could poten­
tially involve the Clinton administration all the 
way through to the Commerce department. 
Among all the heated controversy surrounding 
Aldrich Ames, another instance of U.S. officials, 
especially in the White House, aiding and abet­
ting foreign spies would be devastating. 
No one needs to ju'mp to any conclusions 
about the veracity of these allegations. There 
is a long and recent trail of preceding scandals 
marring our current government. We can not 
take them lightly. John F. Kennedy may not 
have been a saint in his personal life, but, as 
far as I know, he always maintained an ideal of 
civic virtue and a virtuous republic. Similarly, 
King David had Bathsheba, but he always tried 
to lead Israel to God. 
Long ago Plato identified the death of democ­
racy with the inability to maintain virtue. He 
saw democracy as possessing a natural ten­
dency towards succumbing to its base desires 
and manipulation of the people for the perpet­
uation of power, leading eventually to tyranny. 
James Madison believed the only way to avoid 
this was to preserve a moral republic led by 
virtuous leaders with each feeding off of the 
other. In no other way could our Constitutional 
experiment succeed. · 
There was a time when this government was 
respected around the world simply for this 
virtue, not for its power or its wealth. Yet we 
have strayed from the ideal of a republic that 
puts what is right over political expedience ­
and we wonder why some third world coun­
tries in Latin America and the Middle East 
despise the U.S. flag. Maybe we should spon­
sor a Capitol field trip to the Grotto. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
• TooAv's STAFF  
News  Lab Tech  
Michelle Krupa  Kevin Dalum  
Sean Smith  Accent  
Sports  Joey Crawford  
Joe Cavato  Viewpoint  
Production  Anna Restovich  
Michelle Krupa  Graphics  
Mark DeBoy,  Jon King  
Satur¢lay~ 30 Sunday ~ Mong,~y ~,,/ 


The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday chrough Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of rh~ Associated Press. All reproduccion rights are reserved. 
.. ~..~.~.~-~.~.. 
Friday, February 18, 1997

The Observer • INSIDE 
• WORLD AT A GLANCE 
Military fears 165 Sri Lankan refugees dead 
COLOMBO, Sri Lanka 
A boat carrying ethnic Tamils fleeing Sri Lanka's civil war overturned Thursday off the north coast of the island nation and 165 people were feared dead, the military said. 
Intercepted radio messages from Tamil rebels indicated 95 bodies had been recovered, military officials said. 
Seventy people were missing, including --•••­22 children, the officials said on condi-~illliii~WiliillliM~··· tion of anonymity. 
The disaster could not be confirmed 1'--'-_::__::_c____:....,_;,..~ independently because the government does not allow reporters into rebel-eon­trolled regions and there is no telephone ~"1 ""''"'"'1:'':1 link to the area. 
The boat, carrying refugees to India, 1::-e;:;;:::;;~Lt"-.lL-....,,..alot•lhl nearly 35 miles away, sank soon after it left the rebel base at Naehchikuddah vii­lage early Thursday, the officials said. 
The rebels control the area and Sri tion. 
The military says rebels have been encouraging ethnic Tamils to flee to India since government forces started gaining ground in a series of offensives in the past 18 months. 
Last October, 14 people, including eight children and four women, drowned when another boat carrying Tamil refugees cap­
sized. 
More than 50,000 Sri Lankan Tamils are living in refugee camps in the southern Indian state of Tamil Nadu, 20,000 of them baving arrived there in the past year. 
Sinee 1983, the Sri Lankan military has been fighting Tamil rebels who want a homeland in the north and east of the country. 
The rebels allege widespread discrimi­nation by the majority Sinhalese, who eon-trot the government and the military, 

Lanka's navy did not send rescue craft p==~!§:~~~~~~so~m~lle:s:J against minority Tamils. More than 47,000 
because it wanted to avoid a eonfronta-b so km people have been killed in the fighting. 
Mandela starts education campaign 
SOWETO, South Africa 
A potentially thorny moment passed smoothly Thursday when President Nelson Mandela's ex-wife, Winnie, showed up at a ceremony attended by Mandela and his girlfriend. It was the first time all three were seen at the same public function. But if there was any discomfort, all hid it well. Mandela and Graca Machel sat togeth­

er, laughing and whispering at times, on a podium for the ceremony kicking off Mandela's "culture of learn­ing" campaign to promote education in South Africa. Winnie Madikizela-Mandela arrived late and walked to an open seat on the podium, with three chairs between her and Mandela. She and Mandela didn't speak and hardly looked in each other's direction. Madikizela­Mandela and Machel also had no contact. Mandela, 78, divorced Winnie last year, four years after their separa­tion in 1992. Since the divorce, Mandela and Maehel, 51, have gone public with their relationship, which was rumored for months before the divorce. Maehel is the widow of former Mozambique leade.r Samora Machel, who was killed in a 1986 plane crash. Both she and Mandela say they have no plans to marry again. 

Former rapist commits murder 
TAMPA, Fla. 
A neighbor walked over to Lawrence Singleton's door and saw pretty much. what Californians feared 10 years ago when they drove Singleton out of town: There was Singleton, his face and chest covered with blood, a naked woman dead on the living room floor. Singleton, 69, was arrested on murder charges Wednesday, a decade after being released from a California prison for raping a teen-age hitchhiker and hacking her forearms off with an axe. Back in California, people responded with a col­lective I-told-you-so. In Florida, officials said they were angry that Singleton was out on their streets but said there was little they could have done to monitor him. "It's a sad commentary on our criminal justice system that a person of this notoriety who has committed a crime this heinous is out on the streets," -sherifrs Lt. David Gee said. California Gov. Pete Wilson called the slaying a needless tragedy. 

'Doonesbury' makes fun of Trump 
ATLANTIC CITY, N.J. 
Donald Trump is seething at "Doonesbury" artist Garry Trudeau, whose comic strip is taking up Trump's efforts to dislodge neighbors blocking expansion of his Trump Plaza casino. "It's a low blow," said Trump, whose oversized ego and lavish lifestyle have been tar­gets of Trudeau's lampoons since the 1980s. ''lie's a third-rate talent. And it's too bad that he's allowed to write this garbage. The good news is he's been covering me for years and it seems very few people read what he writes." Trudeau's comic strips, which will hit about 1,000 United States newspapers aWnext week. show Trump seeking advice on how to grab Sabatini's Hestaurant, a tiny Pacific Avenue eatery.· "So I grab their property through eminent domain, but they light it. Tie me up in hearings for three years! Problem: How to get these yo-yos to fold and get out," Trump says to the Duke character in one panel. He also schemes to take advantage of the owners' heart conditions. "I just want you to meet with the Sabatinis and do that Antichrist thing you do," Trump tells Duke in the strip. The dia­logue is made up. The situation isn't. Trump, who owns four Atlantic City casino hotels, has been frustrated by a handful of stubborn property owners in his attempts to expand. 


Animals augment farm injuries 
MINNEAPOLIS, Minn. 
Modern farmers operate various kinds of heavy equip­ment. However, of all the dangers farmers face every day, not many people would believe that a large number of farm injuries are caused by the animals themselves. According to a recently published survey organized by ­epidemiologist Debora Boyle, dairy cattle are a major cause of injury to numerous farmers, at least those in parts of the midwest. Boyle, a University of Minnesota graduate, said the idea from her recent study came from an earlier study conducted in 1990. "There was a study that found animal injuries were a main source among farmers," Boyle said. "Our study focused on cattle-relat­ed injuries and the activities in which farmers obtained them." Both studies consisted of interviews with ran­domly-selected farmers from Minnesota, Wisconsin, North Dakota, South Dakota and Nebraska. Over 13,000 Midwest farmers were interviewed for the 1990 study. 

• SOUTH BEND WEATHER • NATIONAL WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forcast 
The AccuWeather<R>forecast for noon, Friday, Feb. 21.
AccuWeather ®forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 
Lines separate high temperature zones tor the day. 

Thursday 
Q, Friday 
H L B bSI [Til 0 !Z3 EJ¢ ~u 
HIGH I..OW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY 
;,)'/\!'""'~'"v , , Via AssoclaltJr;J Press 

-
{)

~~~88ct:Z1 ~ u
',','' '''' :....... ·:·.:::·.:::· -=--=--=­
Showers T-storms Rain Flurries Snow Ice Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy Via Associated Press GraphicsNet 
Atlanta 62 54 Elk Lick 54 53 New York 64 52 Baltimore 68 52 Honolulu 83 65 Philadelphia 64 50 Boston 61 47 Lexington 39 37 StLouis 32 28 Chicago 28 23 Kennebunk 49 44 San Francisco 60 46 Denver 39 13 Miami 83 75 Seattle 52 36 
• 

Friday, February 21, 1997 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Falk: States need humanity Security arrests man 
By ANNE HOSINSKI signify the state as a political nance worldwide is not a sim­News Writer actor that has a range of possi­ple, fabricated policy but must 
in D2 lot last night 
bilities for projection, power be a compassionate, genuine 
A need exists to restore a compassionate state to the forms of world governance, according to Professor Richard Falk of Princeton University in his lecture yesterday. ' 
He noted that the problem comes from the lack of humane governance, a form of govern­ment that is suitable to the needs of the people in the state and is prepared to cater to those needs in international politics. 
Calling the compassionate state a "metaphor intended to 
and influence, " Falk stressed that compassionate politics depends on the role of non­state actors in institutional set­tings of government. 
He said that the quest for humane governance must be rooted in the reality of human suffering, if it is to be credible. 
"Humane governance cannot be premised on speculation of detached reason and cannot be content with prescribing moral abstractions," Falk said. 
Falk noted that the solution to establishing humane gover­response to the needs of the public. 

The solution, according to Falk must "generate action and engagement to the extent to which we cannot foretell the future and so are responsible to create the future." 
The lecture, "Democracy and the prospects for Humane Governance," was a part of the third annual Theodore Hesburgh Lecture on Ethics and Public Policy at the Hesburgh Center of International Studies. 
Urn, I think it's a ... 

Students admire a sculpture at yesterday's. opening of Patty Bunner-Pitcher's exhibit at the Snite Museum's Isis Gallery. The artist is a teacher at the University of Southern Michigan and her art will be on display on campus until March 14. 
Saturday,february 22, 1997 
8:00 PM at Stepan Center 
By LIZ FORAN 
Editor-in-Chief 
Notre Dame Security made an arrest following a break-in in the D2 lot late last night, according to Chuck Hurley, assistant direc­tor of Security. 
The arrest alleviates some of the frustration surrounding the rash of thefts from vehicles parked in student lots. Security had increased patrols, done hours of undercover surveil­lance, and even added additional lighting in the lots prior to last night's arrest, with no results. 
"This doesn't mean we aren't going to continue to patrol the lots," Hurley stressed. "We aren't positive he's connected [to the other break-ins]." 
Shortly before 11 p.m. Thursday night, an officer patrolling the D2 lot saw broken glass near a car. The officer stopped a man in close proximity to the car who was walking away. 
When searched, the 23-year­old South Bend resident was found to have a screwdriver con­cealed inside one of the gloves on his hand, Hurley said. The man was taken into custody and transferred to St. Joseph County Jail. 
He was charged with conver­sion and remained in prison as of 3 a.m., according to St. Joseph County Captain Greg Labis. 
"We contacted the student and had the car brought to Security," Hurley said. "We discovered evi­dence connecting this person [with the break-in]." 
The man denied any involve­ment in other cases when inter­viewed by Security, although "the manner of operation was similar to other vehicles," Hurley added. 

ND to host second business conference 
By MICHAEL LEWIS 
News Writer 
A group, described as the nation's best international busi­ness council, will host its second annual conference this week­end at Notre Dame's College of Business Administration. 
International business stu­dents from several different universities will be on campus Friday through Sunday for the Notre Dame Council on International 
Business Development's Intercollegiate Consulting Conference. The group was founded in 1989 by six business students, and today, has more than 250 members. 
In describing the purpose of the conference, Intercollegiate Consulting Conference Committee member Katy Loughney said, "It's really an opportunity for those who are interested in International Business to meet people who are successful in the industry." 
"It serves as a sounding board, and we can bounce ideas off each other," Loughney said. 
Katie Bellock, co-director of the council's Business Services Division, described the meeting. 
"The conference is student run. It gives us a chance to see what other colleges are doing and what goals they have ver­sus what goals we have," Bellock said. 
She continued that the con­ference promotes the exchange of new ideas and provides a basis of comparison lretween Notre Dame's council and that of other schools. 
"It's basically a chance to get together to share ideas, and I think it gives the students a sense of confidence," Megan Stifel, the council's vice-presi­dent of development said. 
CINEMA AT THE SNITE 
presented by Notre Dame Communication and Theatre 
FRIDAY AND SATURDAY FEBRUARY 21ST AND 22ND 
7:30 and 9:45 p.m. 

http://www.nd.edu/-cothweb/wwwsnite.html 

--~-----------~----­
page 4 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS Friday, February 21, 1997 
Road 
continued from page I 
the two construction seasons, both in 1997 and 1998. 
"The project has been much needed due to the fact that con­gestion has been much worse in past years. But my other concern is kind of a new awareness -the certain cost to people's everyday lives when you do this kind of work. Time and aggravation is a social cost," Zakas said. 
Although the road will never fully close, negating need of detours, closures will occur to through-traffic at separate intervals at the Edison, Douglas, and Ironwood inter­sections. 
Community business owners, including those at Coach's sports bar, are concerned about the adverse effects of construction on their business­es. 
"I'm concerned about how my business is going to survive during the construction. I'm worried if people will even bother trying to fight the traffic to come. We've got to do some­thing so our business doesn't fall apart," said Donna Murphy, Coach's general manager. 
Claiming to understand the plight of business owners, State 
"This is the best form of eco­nomic development we can provide to this community. If you look at the macro [econom­
ic] picture, in the short run this may cause some chaos, but it's going to be in the best interests of everybody in the long run," Dvorak said. 
For businesses to continue their success, roads often need to be repaired, according to Darlene Bauman, INDOT repre­sentative. 
"Unfortunately, sometimes construction does get into the way of business, but business owners need to understand that sometimes the reason that their business is doing so well is the fact that they are located on a good road, and that road maintenance is a natural part of that road's life. We do try to work with business in terms of giving a patron access to them during construction," Bauman said. 
The department is also pos­ing a "disincentive program" to the contractors, Walsh and Kelly of Griffin, to ensure that the work is finished on sched­ule, before the 1998 football season, according to Tom Stoffi, area engineer for INDOT. 
"What we say is not that they will be rewarded for being done early, but that if they don't get done by such-and­such a date in 1998, they will 

Latin 
continued from page I 
having, but about giving." 
The documentary delved into individual communities by showing the impact that spe­cific churches had. For exam­ple, the community of San Lucas in Guatemala was greatly aided by the diocese of New Ulm, Minn. Over 1,000 new homes and 21 new schools were built with New Ulm's aid, as well as a medical clinic, an orphanage, and a seed orchard. Most impor­tantly, the literacy rate of this community has risen from three to 80 percent. 
"We arc blessed to have a stream or volunteers who bring their skills," explained Raymond Luker of New Ulm. "[The volunteers] then get to experience the culture, faith, and poverty first-hand." 
The video documentary was followed by a Power Point pre­sentation delineating the sta­tistical findings of the confer­ence's survey. Anre Venter, a member of the conference, explained several of the sur­vey's conclusions. 
"This survey was meant to be descriptive in nature," Venter stated. "Our conclu­sions should help structure the really grown in the past 35 years," said Venter. "The financial support has not increased nearly as much as the number of actual people universities are sending to Latin America." 
Sr. Mary McGlone, a visiting professor from Avila College in Kansas City, Mo., attempted to tie tho statistical conclusions with the more personal out­look presented in the docu­mentary. Commissioned to write the book "The Story: Pastoral Theological Impli­cations," which comprises the final stage in the conference's project, McGlone explained the three aspects of the Church's involvement in Latin America: attitudes, activities, and theology. 
"There is a dear sense that there is generosity in the United States," McGlone said. "We need a sense of connec­tion. As people get involved they get on a trajectory... people who get beyond the ini­tial fear move from generosity to raised consciousness." 
McGlone emphasized that although the contribution of the United States to Latin America was indeed signifi­cant, the Church and the com­munity must not lose sight of what the Latin American com­munity gives back to us. 
"When I've touched their hands, seen their tears, some­thing happens... when the Spirit is awakened in our peo­ple the positive dimensions of relationships can grow." 
Concluding with a question session to clarify statistics, Pelton and McGlone stressed the importance of the relation­ship between the churches of the United States and Latin America.· 
"Something new is being born among us," stated McGlone, citing an old Peruvian song. "This is not the old mission; we are mov­ing toward community." 
The lecture, "The Influence of the Latin American Church on the North American Church," was held yesterday 
afternoon  at 4 p.m in the  
Hesburgh  Center  for  
International Studies.  

Please recycle The Observer. 
face liquidated damages. It's a

Representative Michael Dvorak 
kind of dilsincentive to get the 

notes the benefits for owners 
project done on time," Stoffl

after the construction. 
said. 

Have something to say? Use Observer classifieds. 

We care. From the day you move in, our friendly, profes­sional staff will give you great service. Great location, great service, great price ... Hickory Village has what you need. Come by and see for yourself! 
Efficiencies from $290 1-Bedrooms from $305 2-Bedrooms from $375 

24-hour Emergency Maintenance Service Attentive Staff • Cable TV Available Free Aerobics Classes Laundry Room in Every Building Acres of Rolling Lawns and Trees Pool, Sundeck &Clubhouse Close to Great Shopping Air Conditioning 

Call or stop by Ieday and v.t~'ll show you how great living at Hickory Village can be. 
272-1880 
rHlCKORlJ 
DlLLA~Ef! 

Mon.-Fri. 8-6, Sat. 10-4 & Sun. 12-4 
The University of Notre Dame Department of Music · presents Guest Pianist 
~aul-,4ndti Bempichat 
/\~  t;o~a~~n ~~~~6 ~9~f  
~;;  9oha~t1tes  Btahms  
...~ ~~  Seven Fantasias (Op. 116)  
~>--1 /i' --...... ---<\1' l  (  and Three Intermezzi (Op. 117) ,41t1tlfletsatv eo1tcett  

2 pm, Sunday, February 23; Pre-concert lecture, 1 pm Annenberg Auditorium, The Snite Museum of Art 
_j 

Tickets: $5 General Admission; $2 Students/Seniors For more information, call 63!-6201. 
T Sec Annua Gender Studies Conference 
nature of the Church's involve­ment in the past few decades." 
Venter presented statistics that showed the primary involvement of American parishes, dioceses, religious communities, and universities was financial aid. However, all four groups also showed an increase in human involve­ment in Latin America, espe­cially among college students and faculty members. 
"Student experience has 
1.99 7 Black Catholic Series -Part I Lecture and Discussion: 
~~No Color, ·No Culture, No Faith" 
Wednesday, February 26 
7:30 p.m. Hesburgh Library Lounge 

Fr. Edward B. Branch Director -The Catholic Center Atlanta University Center, Atlanta, Georgia 
Sponsored by Campus Ministry 


Gender Across the Disciplines: Interweaving Understanding 
Montgomery Theatre LaFortune 
9 a.m. coffee and donuts 
9:30a.m... 5 p.m. 
Reception immediately following in the Dooley Room 
a~u ring talk~!;~~ 'e Graduate 

'·...:~:,:,:.: 
·· ''February'~~ 



Sponsored by The Graduate Student Union 
& 


The Gender Studies Program 
For a complete program listing http://www. nd. edu/ gsu/ doc uments/wrc/ conf.hrml 

I . 
Friday, February 21, 1997 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS page 5 
ND grad fights drug war in Navy 
By CHAD McKIMSON Special to The Observer  the country's law enforcement agencies alone. They are not adequately equipped  capabilities, the Pacific Fleet is able to maintain a constant  
or trained for blue water search operations  involvement in monitoring  
CARIBBEAN SEA  of the high seas. That's where we come in  international waterways for  
The Navy spends its time defending U.S.  and bring out expertise in this medium to  drug trafficking. The Princeton  
interests, often on the other side of the  the fight," Griffin said.  spent the last several months  
world. However, for the crew of the guid­ Griffin, the combat systems officer on the  preparing for the deployment,  
ed-missile cruiser USS Princeton, protect­ Princeton, supervises the ship's combat  and Griffin feels the training will  
ing America's interests on their current  systems personnel.  serve him well during the opera­ 
deployment will keep them a little closer to  The Princeton is equipped with powerful  tion.  
home.  engines and a state-of-the-art Aegis com­ "The last several months of  
Instead of keeping the peace in the  bat system, a computer operated command  training has prepared me very  
Arabian Gulf, the crew will be in the  and control system. Aegis is an integrated  well. The ship's primary focus  
Southeastern Pacific and Caribbean Sea  system ·designed to simultaneously collect,  remained on training and  
waging war on what many people feel is an  evaluate and display combat information,  preparing for the types of opera­ 
even larger threat to the United States than  launch and guide missiles to their targets  tions we can expect to encounter  
international disputes ­illegal narcotics.  and share tactical information with other  while deployed overseas,"  
Lt. Cmdr. Jeffrey Griffin, a 1986 graduate  ships and aircraft.  Griffin, a 10-year Navy veteran,  
of Notre Dame, and the rest of the crew of  Along with the Aegis system, the  said.  
the Ticonderoga-class cruiser departed  Princeton possesses a variety of air, sur­ The deployment will be hard  
their home port of San Diego in mid­ face, and land-attack missiles, torpedoes  work for Griffin and will require  
January for a counter-narcotics mission off  and rapid fire guns. The versatility of the  some long hours, but he has  
the coasts of Central and South America.  9,500-ton cruiser enables it to build a  some goals he wants to accom­ 
Griffin feels it is important for the Navy to  defensive shield around a naval battle  plish.  
help protect the U.S. from illegal drug  group, conduct offensive strikes against  "What I hope for on this  
smuggling.  land targets, and undertake surveillance,  deployment is for the ship to  
"To combat this tremendously well-orga­ search and rescue and counter-narcotic  have a positive impact in the  
nized and well-financed adversary [drug  operations. .  war on drugs, specifically to help  
lords] requires the resources of more than  Because of the Princeton's multi-mission  stem the flow from Central America into the United States,"  ,  
Griffin said. "Personally, I hope this  ~ i  

deployment prepares me for my next at-sea assignment as an executive officer of a naval war­ship." 
While living and serving on a warship like the Princeton can be a difficult lifestyle, Griffm still values the experience. 
"The most rewarding aspect for me is contributing to the national security and the defense of the United States by ensuring that the ship's combat systems are ready for conflict if called upon," Griffm said. 
Chad McKimson is a Navy journalist assigned to the Navy Public Affairs Center at Naval Station, San Diego. 


Leave the driving to us. 
Starts this Friday, February 21! Hours: 10 p.m.~3 a.m. Friday and Saturday Call the hodine: 631-9888 

UNIVER.SITY Of NOTRE DAME Srun"H Gtw'•"'"UNT 

page 6 The Observer • NEWS 
Cerny to give 'American' recital 
Special to The Observer 
William Cerny, professor of music at Notre Dame, will perform a spring concert recital on Sun., March 2 at 2 
p.m. in the Anneberg Auditorium of the Snite Museum of Art. 
Entitled "American Centennial Celebration," the concert is dedicated to the works of American com­posers. The program will highlight composers born in 1896, including Virgil Thomson, Howard Hanson, 
Robert Sessions, and William Grant Still. The recital is free and open to the public. 
Included on Cerny's recital program are "Three Visions" (1936) by Still, "Five 2-Part Inventions" (1946) by Sessions, "Three Miniatures and Clog Dance" (1932) by Hanson, and "Sonata for 
Piano"  (1967)  by  Peter  
Mennin.  
A  graduate  of  Yale  

University, Cerny was a pro­fessional accompanist in New York City early in his career. He was on the faculty of Eastman School of Music for 13 years before coming to Notre Dame in 1972. 

While at Eastman, he per­formed the complete 62 Haydn sonatas, the 19 Mozart sonatas, and the complete 32 Beethoven piano sonatas. 
His solo performances have taken him to scores of univer­sity campuses, and his weekly radio program has been car­ried by 30 National Public Hadio stations throughout the country. 
For more information, please call 631-6201. 
DynamO to play in ND theater 

Special to The Observer 
DynamO Theatre, a profes­sional company from Montreal, Canada will perform an original play, "The Challenge," Feb. 27 through March 1 at Washington Hall. 
In addition to the perfor­mance, DynamO will conduct two workshops for theatre stu­dents. 
DynamO Theatre has per­formed for audiences in Canada, the United States, South America, Europe, and Asia for more than 15 years with a unique form of perfor-
If you see news happening~ call The Observer at l-5323. 

'97-98 4-8 Bedrooms, Fully furnished Security Systems Washers/Dryers call Pat @ 258-9996 
ERASMUS BOOKS 
~Used books bought andsold 
• 
25 categories of Books 

• 
25,000 Ha~dback & Paperback books in stock 

• 
Out-of-Ptint Searcb Sen~ce:$2.00 

•
Appraisals large and small 


Open noon to six · 
Tuesday through Sunday 1027 E. Wayne South Bend, IN 46617 
(219) 232-8444 
mance art the company_ calls "theatre of acrobatic move­ment." 
It blends aspects of drama, circusJ and dance into a form that transcends language, says Bruce Auerbach, Notre Dame's director of theatre and associ­ate professional specialist in communication and theatre. 
According to Auerbach, DynamO was included in the University's mainstage season primarily because its style of theatre is very different from the styles with which Notre Dame students are familiar. 

"This will be a great stretch for our audience, and our stu­dents will see and work with a new physical form." 
"The Challenge" is a tale of exploration and risk in which a pack of thrill-seeking youths heads off to see if "something might happen." 
"Its compelling narrative," says Auerbach, is driven by electrifying physicality and evocative images. 
Finance Club Chicago Trip 
Thursday and Friday of Spring Break Week -March 13th and 14th 
Signups in Finance Dept. Office 
~:;ii:ANDERSEN 

last day -Friday February 21st
.:CONSULTING 

>even 

• 
Stay at the Chicago Downtown Marriott Thursday and Friday night 

• 
Tentative visits include: 


~tlii~t«JS~Q~ ~tit\~:~~ ~,~~e,b:'ct;n:g ..e 
!) 
• The Chicago Board of Trade ~-· 
• LaSalle National Bank-ABN/AMRO bank 
• Andersen Consulting -ND' s largest employer lWO • Morgan Stanley -investment bankers 
0 

• 
Merrill Lynch -financial services even ~Merrill Lynch 

• 
The Chicago Stock Exchange 


Price: $70 Includes hotel and roundtrip ticket on the South Shore 

MORGAN STANLEY 

i8 Chicago Board of Trade 
r-----------------------,
Unlimited Tanning 

L---------~~ _:!-!-~---------.J 
1 :  Until Spring Break  1 :  
! I  for $25  - 1 :  

Satisfaction 
Voted: 
AREA's BrsT 
TANNING CENTER . 
Commons Grape & McKinley 
by UP Mall near KMart 
272-7653 256-965 

Friday, February 21, 1997 The Observer • NATIONAL NEWS page 7 
Panel: Marijuana could help patients 
By PAUL RECER 
Associated Press Writer 
BETHESDA, Md. 

Sparse but promising evi­dence indicates smoking mari­juana may ease the suffering of some seriously ill patients, but more study is needed before the drug's medical value is understood, a panel of experts said Thursday. 
At a news conference inter­rupted repeatedly by pro-mari­juana demonstrators, the experts assembled by the National Institutes of Health spoke of intriguing hints that marijuana smoking helps some patients with cancer, AIDS or glaucoma. But they cautioned there is little hard scientific evidence. 
"For at least some indica­tions (medical uses), it looks promising enough that there should be some new controlled studies," said Dr. William T. Beaver, a professor of pharma­cology at Georgetown University School of Medicine and the panel's chairman. 
Although a final committee report is not complete, "the general mood was that for some indications, there is a rationale for looking further into the therapeutic effects of marijuana," Beaver said. 
The eight-member committee appeared at a news conference after two days of hearings dur­ing which members reviewed the scientific literature on med­ical use of smoked marijuana and heard from other experts. 
Dr. Alan Leshner, head of the National Institute of Drug Abuse, organized the meeting after California and Arizona enacted state laws that allow medical uses of marijuana. 
Those state laws also 
· prompted White House drug czar Barry McCaffrey to issue a warning that doctors who pre­scribe marijuana could lose their federal authority to pre­scribe medicine. One California doctor already has been warned by the Department of Justice that he is under investi­gation. Despite McCaffrey's tough stand, however, Leshner said the NIH would finance medical marijuana studies, if proposed research is approved by the agency's peer-review process. He said his institute is empow­ered to issue legal marijuana to researchers. "Qur policy is that if other institutes (at NIH) support a 

study, then we will provide the marijuana," he said. 
Allowing doctors to prescribe marijuana is popular with Americans, favored by 62 per­cent to 33 percent in a CBS News poll released Thursday. But legalizing marijuana for personal use is opposed by 70 percent to 26 percent in the poll of 1,276 adults taken Jan. 30-Feb. 1. 
Results have a 3-percentage­point margin of sampling error, CBS said. 
Thursday's news conference was interrupted four times by ACT UP, the AIDS activist group, and members of the Marijuana Policy Project. In shouted accusations, the demonstrators accused Leshner of using a "stall tac­tic" to block marijuana research and of ignoring exist­ing research. 
"We don't trust you," screamed one demonstrator. "People with AIDS need mari­juana to survive." 
Security officers removed each demonstrator in turn, and the news conference continued. 
Beaver said the scientists did not consider the politics or legal problems of doing mari­juana research. 

The Notre Dame African Students' Associatzon 
PROUDLY PRESENTS A Panel Discussion 
LAND Of JEAliTY I. PUNTY 

"Truth & Reconciliation" 
" VICTIMS & PERPETRATORS IN POST-APARTHEID SOUTH AFRICA & EASTERN EUROPE" featuring 
Mark Behr, English Dept.; Prof Peter Walshe(Moderator), Govt. Dept.; Prof James McAdams, 
Govt. Dept.; Garth Meintjes, Assistant Director/CCHRL; Jasmin Nordien, Peace Studies Program. 
Thursday, Feb. 27 • 4:00 p.m. • Hesburgh Auditorium 
FREE ADMISSION http://www.nd.edu/-ndasa· 

Technology could tell if gun killed King 
By WOODY BAIRD 
Associated Press Writer 
MEMPHIS, Tenn. 

New technology exists that could determine whether James Earl Ray's rifle killed the Rev. Martin Luther King Jr. in 1968, a judge said today. 
Judge Joe Brown's decision must now be reviewed by the Tennessee Court of Criminal Appeals before Brown can rule on Ray's request for a new test of the weapon. 
Ray is asking for that test in an attempt to take back his guilty plea and go to trial. 
Brown could not say when the appeals court will make its review. 
Ray, 68, pleaded guilty to murder in 1969 but reversed himself almost immediately and has been requesting a trial ever since. He claims he was set up to be the fall guy for the real killers. 
He contends the hunting rifle found at the murder scene with his fingerprints on it was put there by conspirators trying to frame him. 
To have new tests, Ray's lawyers must first convince the courts that improved technolo­gy can determine if the rifle found at the scene killed King. They would then have to show that test results in Ray's favor help prove his innocence. 
Ray has drawn support in his bid for a trial from civil rights leaders and from the family of King. Both his widow, Coretta Scott King, and son Dexter King urged Brown to put Ray on trial. 
"Even if no new light is shed on the facts concerning my hus­band's assassination, at least we and the nation can have the satisfaction of knowing that jus­tice has run its course in this tragedy," Mrs. King said at today's hearing; 
Robert Hathaway, an assis­tant forensics examiner for Rhode Island, said new technol­ogy could prove another rifle fired the shot that killed King on the balcony of the Lorraine Motel in April 1968. 
That technology is a scanning electron microscope, which Hathaway said wasn't available until the mid 1980s. 
"Knowing that the magnifica­tion is much greater and better it is an additional tool that can be used to possibly resolve the conflict over whether it was fired from this gun," said Hathaway, who spent 17 years in the crime lab for the Connecticut State Police. 
Hathaway said the FBI used technology available at the time to test the bullet and rifle, but there has been "no matching of the death slug to the rifle itself." 
The U.S. House Select Committee on Assassinations had the King rifle tested in the 1970s, but because the slug was so mangled, could not establish beyond a scientific doubt that it was the murder weapon. 
Tests showed, however, that King was killed by the same kind of gun and that lead in the 
1 
death slug matched unspent bullets found with the rifle. 
l 


Diamond Price Quotations 219/246-1939 
Thinking of purchasing a diamond? Choose wisely, with information in our complimentary book, Diamonds Magnified, and clear advice about how to select an affordable diamond. 
The D~~~~~M~~Qtoriey® 
KeyBank Building, Suite #101 South B~nd, Indiana 4660 l 



City-Wide Celebration of Black History Month 
The Pan Mrican Cultural Center in cooperation with The Mrican and Mrican American Studies Program Presents 
FROM AFRICA TO AMERICA 
An Evening of 
Af,.ieA.H z,~~.,~es II.Hit biHfl 
With 

DARLENE BLACKBURN 
Her Innovative and Dynamic Dance Troup from Chicago & Washington High School Gospel and Inspirational Choir 

By lAURA MYERS Associated Press Writer 
WASHINGTON 

The United States urged Cuba on Thursday to exercise restraint during a fly-over by exiles to mark the anniversary of the shoot-down of two of their 
f • planes. 
! 
At the same time, the State Department cautioned organiz­ers of Monday's demonstration 
that they would be "playing with fire" if they violated Cuban air­space or waters. 
"What we've been assured is that they have no intention of violating Cuban territorial seas or airspace. And that's a very important promise or pledge that they've made," said Glyn Davies, a State Department spokesman. 
Davies said the United States informed the Castro government that the Brothers to the Rescue have the right as Americans to hold a peaceful demonstration, about 20 miles off the coast of Cuba. 
Communist Cuba has ignored international law before, howev­er, Davies contended, including when its military shot down the two unarmed, civilian aircraft Feb. 24, 1996, killing four peo­pie. The shoot-down resulted in stiffer U.S. economic sanctions against Cuba. 

"When you're talking about Castro's Cuba, given what hap­pened on Feb. 24th of last year ... you know you can be playing with fire if you do go into Cuban territorial airspace," he said. 
In Havana, Marianela Ferriol, spokeswoman for the Ministry of Foreign Relations, told reporters Cuba would adopt "all necessary measures to impede any viola­tion of the air, land or maritime space of the country" during the anniversary demonstration on Monday. 

pilot longer be extremely extremely safety 
Aviation 
an and 
Lukester's 22! 
Happy Birthday, mate. 
-The Cougars 


February 28, 1997 at 7:00, Hesburgh Library Auditorium 
sfvJDENT:$3. 'l'l'lQ<El;~V.4f(~B LE AT ·.. ··..·NE lN FO. D~E~S K ,.. :. .· •.. ... 
. · • 
This Third Edition of City-Wide Celebration of Black History Month Jointly sponsored by: Pan-African Cultural Center, African and African American Studies Program, Student Union Intellectual Life Committee, Student Activities, Kellogg Institute, Student Government, Washington High School Multicultural Society, and ..,; Salon of Friendship. 
4 
u: ­

Friday, February 21, 1997 The Observer • INTERNATIONAL NEWS page 9 
--------------------~~~==~~~~~~~~~~~~~--------------------------------~~­
• SAUDI ARAB!A • ZAIRE 
Air Force settles into saudi desert 
By CHARLES HANLEY Associated Press Writer 
PRINCE SULTAN AIR 
BASE 

The U.S. Air Force is hun­kering down behind 64 miles of 8-foot fence, tons of barbed wire and a long stretch of scorpion-and­snake desert to escape the threat of terrorism in Saudi Arabia. 
Eight months after 19 of their comrades were killed in the bombing of high-rise apartments in eastern Saudi Arabia, more than 4,000 Air Force men and women are 


settled into a gritty, dusty 
city of 700 dun-colored tents .where security may be tighter than at any military base in the 
world. 
Even the latrines get "securi­
ty" handling. Sewage tank 
trucks from outside are not 
allowed to penetrate the base 
perimeter, so on-base tankers 
must empty the latrines and 
transfer their contents to civilian trucks miles away at the fence. 
Incoming fuel and water are handled the same way because of the fear of truck bombs, tying up dozens of trucks and scores of Air Force security police who escort them. 
"We don't do anything for. convenience or efficiency," base commander Brig. Gen. Daniel Dick said. 

Leaders reject U.N. peace plan 

By KAMANGA MUTOND 
Associated Press Writer 
KINSHASA 

The Zairian government threatened Thursday to resume bombing rebel-held territory, but also agreed to attend a regional summit on ending its escalating civil war. 
Meanwhile, South African and U.S. officials tried to set up what would be the first face-to-face peace talks between Zaire's warring fac-· tions since the conflict began in September. 
Though there were no reports of new airstrikes on rebel-controlled towns, both gides threatened to step up attacks. 
Defense Minister Gen. Likulia 
Bolongo warned that airstrikes 
would resume and urged civil­
ians to stay away from rebel 
bases. 
· "The Zairian armed forces 
are determined to carry out 
the war and take back all the 
territory occupied by 
invaders," he said. 
Rebel leader Laurent Kabila 
threatened to attack Zaire's 
largest refugee camp, saying 



the government had used Tingi-Tingi as a base for air raids that killed at least eight civilians in rebel-held territory this week. 
"We ask the international community not to ask us to refrain when we give a 
• RUSSIA 
response to those kind of provocations," Kabila said. 
Under U.N. pressure, Kabila had agreed to delay an attack on the camp, which houses 150,000 Rwandan Hutu refugees along with former Rwandan soldiers armed by the Zairian government. The air raids came Monday, a day later, killing eight people. Thirty remained hospitalized Thursday. 
Kabila, who was surveying the damage from the bombing of the town of Bukavu, also said he was skeptical of a U.N. proposal to end the civil war in eastern Zaire. The rebels, who want to end the 32-year rule of President Mobutu Sese Seko, have seized a 900-mile strip of territory. 
"The U.N. cannot help us. The U.N. was always here while Mobutu was breaking the country," Kabila said. 
The government on Wednesday also rejected the 
U.N. proposal, saying it fails to condemn neighboring African countries for giving military support to the rebels. Zaire accuses Rwanda, Burundi and Uganda of supporting and sup­plying the rebels. 
But Prime Minister Leon Kengo wa Dondo said Thursday that Zaire, which has refused to attend two pre­vious summits, was "not opposed" to participating in regional talks . 

Albright: NATO plans not a threat 
expansion and will continue to hold that position." 
Primakov made the remark at a news conference after talking to visiting Italian Foreign Minister Lumberto Dini, one of several allied diplo­mats trying to sell NATO expan­sion to the skeptical Russians. 
Burns told American reporters nothing dramatic transpired at Albright's sepa­rate hour-long meetings with Chernomyrdin and Primakov, which was followed by a stur­geon and beef stew dinner. 
Afterward, Albright walked through Red Square in frigid weather. ''I'm freezing," she acknowledged, but kept up the pace in the well-lighted his­toric site at the side of the Kremlin. 

By BARRY SCHWEID Associated Press Writer 
MOSCOW 

Secretary of State Madeleine Albright ran into skepticism Thursday in trying to convince Russian leaders that expansion of NATO eastward in the next two years would pose no threat to Moscow. 
"We established a working relationship," she said after seeing Prime Minister Viktor Chernomyrdin and Foreign Minister Yevgeny Primakov. A meeting with President Boris Yeltsin was scheduled Friday, and that could be crucial. 
Despite his health problems, Yeltsin is thought by State Department experts to be in charge of Kremlin decision­making. "He is the president; he runs the government on a daily basis," spokesman Nicholas Burns said. 
Primakov, however, asserted that "Russia has a negative position on NATO 
v1ttention sop omore 6usiness majors! 

Applications are now being accepted for Assistant Student Body Treasurer for 1997--98 
• Gain valuable practical experience in a business oriented leadership role! 
• handle over $400,000 a year! 

VIEWPOINT 
page 10 Friday, February 21, 1997 
THE OBSERVER 

NoTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1996-97 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Elizabeth Foran Managing Editors Business Manager Patricia Carson Matt Casey Tom Roland 

News Editor... .......Brad Prendergast Advertising Manager. .................. Ellen Ryan Viewpoint Editor.. .........Ethan Hayward Ad Design Manager ..............................jed Peters Sports Editor ....................Timothy Sherman Production Manager .........Heather Cocks Accent Editor.......... . ...... Joey Crawford Systems Manager ...................... Michael Brouillet 
Saint Mary's Editor................ Caroline Blum Controller. . ........................... Tyler Weber Photo Editor ......................... Michael Rum a 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. It does nor necessarily reflect the policies of the adminisrra­rion ofeither institucion. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned edi­rorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoim Editor, Accent Ediror, Photo Ediror, Spons Editor, and Saint Mary's Edicor. Commentaries, lerrers and Inside Columns present rhe views of the auchors, and nor necessarily those ofThe Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members 6[ rhe Notre Dame/Saint Mary's com­munity and to all readers. The free expression of varying opinions through letrers is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 

Editor-in-Chief 631-4542 Business Office 631-5313 Managing Ediror/Viewpoint 631-4541 Advertising 631-6900/8840 Spans 631-4543 Systems/Marketing Dept. 631-8839 News/Photo 631-5323 Office Manager 631-7471 Accent/Saint Mary's 631-4540 Fax 631-6927 Day Editor/Production 631-5303 Viewpoint E-Mail Viewpoint.! @nd.edu General Information 631-7471 Ad E-Mail observer@darwin.cc.nd.edu 
C:JG.\"ENc~ 
•.' 
~ 

NE'Nc;, 
• lETTER To THE EmroR 
ND women fail to support female electoral candidates 
Dear Editor: Women of Notre Dame, you dropped the balL 
Frankly, you made it overwhelmingly clear when you elected Matt Griffin and Erek Nass as your new student body leaders in the recent presidential elec­tion. (For those of you who supported the Szabo/Gillard ticket, I applaud you, and I invite you to bear witness to the diatribe I have prepared for your back­stabbing peers.) 
I hold you responsible for this ill-con­ceived mistake because in every female dorm except two (Knott, where Mary Gillard lives, and Howard), the Griffin/Nass ticket received the majority of votes by an average margin of 23 per­cent over its competitor. 
The Notre Dame men performed quite differently, however; tho Szabo/Gillard ticket won every male dorm (by an aver­age margin of victory of 12 percent) except Stanford and Keenan, where Griffin and Nass reside, respectively. In fact, I would even argue that the men humiliated you by supporting the female candidate that was to be your voice in student government 
Yes, yes, you're right; it would have been pitifully provincial of you to vote for Mary Gillard just because she was the only woman running for office in the final election. But if you read Allison Koenig's February 10 Observer Inside Column entitled "Waiting for a leading woman," in which she descries the lack of female leadership and initiative in stu­dent government executive office, you should have felt compelled to vote differ­ently. So if you still weren't convinced by the Szabo/Gillard platform, then why did you vote for the opposition? 
Was it because Griffin and Nass had the word "experience" plastered all over their pithy little campaign posters? Well if that's the case, you really screwed up, because Koenig states that "from a lead­ership and government involvement standpoint, [Mary Gillard] is more quali­fied to lead the student body than any of the nine candidates." 
Or was it because they proclaimed themselves, in hackneyed fashion, "your voice?" Wrong again-the Szabo/Gillard ticket was the only ticket, from the very beginning, to advocate improved gender relations efforts. 
So far, we haven't come up with any intelligent reasons for your misguided actions, so let's pose a few inane (but much more likely) explanations. 
Perhaps you thought we needed some cute guys in office. Perhaps you like the trendy sweaters they were wearing in their campaign posters. Perhaps your friends told you how cool those guys are because they go to Bridget's all the time. Perhaps you're entrenched in a high­school mentality that demands that you vote on the basis of sheer popularity. This, of course, is all conjecture. 
If you can't yet see where I am going with this, lot me spell it out for you. You were afraid to break away from the pack, afraid to take a chance, afraid to live up to changing gender roles. 
You have strong spokeswomen on this campus and powerful feminist ideologies at your fingertips, but you chose to ignore all of them in this election. The time has come to emancipate yourselves from social conservatism and to take the risk of ruffling some feathers. This was your big chance, and you blew it. 
After all, she who complains about how the ball bounces probably dropped it 
PATRICK PERRI 
Senior 
Morrissey Manor 


VIEWPOINT
Friday, February 21, 1997 page 11 
• DISGRESSIONS, DISTORTIONS, AND GENERAl RAMBUI\IGS 
Shoppers, on your mark, get ready, get set, go! 
It's beautiful... touching, really, when a father decides to impart to his child the vast complexities of his aggregate life knowledge and philosophies -espe­
. cially when they concern toilet paper! I was twelve years old when my father decided to share with me his authorita­tive theories on shopping. "Kath," he said, "in order to be a winner in the 

Kathy Scheibel 
sport of shopping, you must understand the intricacies of the game. For exam~ pie, products such as toilet paper, tooth­paste and kitty litter should always be bought in mass quantities at discount prices, because things are cheaper by the gross, and toilet paper just doesn't spoil. Concentrate on the details, and victory will greet you at every blue light special." 
Doesn't every father have a similar session with his daughter as she comes of age? Well ... no, probably not, because not every father is priming his daughter to inherit his legacy as Strategic Stockpile Shopping Champion of the World. In fact, most fathers probably don't even know that shopping is a high­ly intense, mentally stimulating and physically demanding game of strategy. My dad, however, does -and he engages in this game once a week ... all week long. 
• CAPITOL COMMENTS 
Play officially opens at an atrociously early hour Sunday morning (before the Joneses or their cat would even think about being awake) when the paper boy launches the 30-pound weekend edition of the newspaper through our dining room window. While Mom sweeps up the shattered glass, Dad pounces on the paper in a race against time, inventory supply and opposing Stockpile Shoppers. He tears past the front page, the comics, even the sports page, until his hands land on the sacred glossies ... the four­inch-thick, for-suckers-only, we-dare­you-to-try-and-find-the -deal-before-it­expires advertisement section. 
"Wow! Soap is only $1.50 per bar at Wal-Mart this week! Ooh! And Kmart has a buy 36, get one free special on. laundry detergent! And, good gracious -they've got kegs of pickles for 49 bucks at Sam's Club! You can't beat that with a stick! Geez ol' Pete -here's a S­cent coupon for molasses at Food Barn! We need molasses, don't we honey?" 
"Yes, dear -I think we just opened the last gallon yesterday." 
"Holy cow! Would you just look at these outrageously low prices for olives!" 
"You're allergic to olives, dear." "And dirt-cheap baby formula! And kitty litter!" "Our children are grown up, and the cat died four years ago, dear." 
Obviously, the object of the game is not necessarily to purchase items truly needed, nor is it to actually get a bar­gain, but rather the importance is placed on the quantity of perceived bar­gains scouted and the extent of absurdly extreme measures taken in obtaining and exploiting these perceived bargains. 
After this invigorating and inspiring 
scouting stage comes the most challeng­ing, yet the most integral part of the game -the organizational phase... when mere dreams are transformed into possible realities. This, incidentally, is the favorite stage of the spectator. All three of us ki<:ls will routinely drag our lifeless bodies out of bed several hours before sunrise just to witness Dad's metamorphosis into Superhuman Strategist. It's a vivid visual experience: His heart begins violently convulsing, and the blood rips through his veins at lightning speed, sparking random neu­ron firings and turning his entire body an interesting shade of purple. The mice inside his brain begin to run like mad on their little wheels (and it must be pretty steamy in there, because smoke invari­. ably filters out of Dad's ears), and his eyes grow wide as the spirit of inspira­
tion enters him. 

He whips out his chalkboard and 
begins diagramming furiously. "Okay, 
team-here's the plan: We hit the Wal­
Mart in Tallahassee first, then we shoot 
on over to Denver and visit the Venture 
on Main Street, then we'll head up to 
Big Bob's Ball-Point Pens in Vegas; we'll 
loop over to Crazy Harry's in 
Dubuque..." 

According to Dad (and he is the reign­
ing Champion of Strategic Stockpile 
Shopping), failure to cross over several 
time zones and burn at least eight tanks 
of gas is a clear and flagrant violation of 
the rules. 

" ... and finally, we'll blitz Sam's Club 
and buy all of their remaining toilet 
paper, that is unless any unforeseeable 
bargains should present themselves 
along the way. Are ya with me, kids?" 
We sleepily and collectively mumble, 
"Ummm, we gotta... uh... do some stuff," and, satisfied with the amusement of Dad's smoking head, we wander back to our beds to sleep until normal people do. Mom, who seems to be our sole gene contributor, follows soon after us. 
So, Dad gives explicit directions to the dog to make sure to clear a loading zone for the loot and to continue on as usual without him, assuring him that he will return victorious. 
So, the family carries on through the rest of the week, noting the severe weather patterns developing over most of North America and knowing that Dad is certainly enjoying the extra, added challenge of atmospheric turbulence. 
On Saturday evening, Dad's return is announced by the grating sound of metal dragging on pavement, as his car, now several tons heavier than last Sunday and riding only a fraction of a centimeter from the ground, crawls up the driveway. Mr. Jones storms the field to get the post-game interview with Dad, while the reserves (i.e. the family) rush in to transfer the goods to the disaster prep sight (i.e. the basement, which holds enough supplies to sustain the entire neighborhood for several decades in the event that World War III should occur). The car thanks us profusely as we relieve it of 46 bags of charcoal, 258 rolls of toilet paper, 73 bottles of sham­poo, 300 pounds of gerbil food ... 
"Gerbil food?! Dad -we don't have any gerbils!" "They're in the trunk... they were on sale, too!" . That's good for the extra point. And the crowd goes wild! 
Kathy Scheibel is a junior Arts and Letters major. Her column appears every other Friday . 

Are quotas the answer to Notre Dame's lack of diversity? 
Tucked nicely together on the back cover of the most recent edition of Notre Dame Magazine is the symmetrical pat­tern of sixteen photographs of students from the Class of 2000. Nine males and eight females represent the gender bal­ance of the student population on cam­pus. About one third are people of color or easily-recognizable ethnic minorities. 
Gary Caruso 

Diversity and political correctness exudes in this public relations triumph. 
Wrapped across the front and back of the most recent edition of "Alumni, The Newsletter for Notre Dame Alumni," is the 1997 Ballot for the Alumni Association's National Board of Directors. This board is the highest alumni organization at Notre Dame, and alumni can only serve one three-year term in their lifetime. Obviously, the bal­lot layout is not as slick as the Class of 2000 cover, yet the ballot is very distinct in its own way. The fourteen candidates are all white males. 
I haye a grouchy, sometimes bitter classmate from Chicago who could "give a damn" about the national board as he continues over the years to fade from a Notre Dame Rah-Rah to a Notre Dame Indifferent. In fact, he claims to have a sure-fire method of choosing the alumni board winners. He asserts that to be given the opportunity to run on the bal­lot only means that the candidate has become a "good ole boy" with someone at the University. My classmate can tell who will win by first, eliminating the ugly photographs. He swears that each year at least two candidates loose because they are too fat or too stiff look­ing. 
Secondly, while my friend always votes for the younger of the two oppo­nents in each region, he estimates that the older candidate will win eighty per­cent of the time. Says he, "The guy who serves for almost twenty years on his local club's board is the guy who is dri­ven by all that Notre Dame rah-rah 'stuff.' He only lives to attend every Notre Dame 'game of the century' each season and to finally serve a once-in-a­lifetime term on the national board. I'd vote against anyone who served more than two years as president and more than six years on any club board. What ever happened to serving a while and letting a younger person have the same opportunity and experience after you?" 
Finally, my classmate reads the biographies and statements of the remaining "open seats" on his ballot. He favors engineers over attorneys, but will vote against anyone who uses "God and country" together in a statement. He will drop the candidate with the most "schmaltz" in a statement. Most emphatically, though, he will exclude a candidate who seems to be "too rigid or Notre Dame white Catholic stereotypi­cal." 
After a careful inspection of this alum­ni ballot, one could also assert that age diversity is nonexistent. One third of the candidates running for seats with no age restriction are from the Class of 1969. Again excluding the At-Large seat reserved for young alumni, only two candidates have graduated lessthan ten years ago. 
It is ironic for the campus to recently spend days celebrating events to under­stand and promote multicultural diversi­ty, and then publish an alumni ballot void of ethnic, age or gender diversity. Regardless of how many women cur­rently serve on the national board, the fact remains that none were on this bal­lot. Regardless of the fact that the first African American was recently elected Oral Roberts of Indiana. That choice to president of the alumni board, no candi-be so Catholic, in itself, is not necessari­dates represent any ethnic diversity. ly bad. However, it is incumbent upon Regardless of the fact that candidates each administrator, staff member and have graduated from each decade from • student to conscientiously strive each 
the 1950s to the 1990s, a third are from the Class of 1969. It is mathematical equivalent of having 33 U.S. Senators from Alaska. 
My grumpy classmate is having a field day with this issue. He just got over his obsession with Notre Dame issuing sta­dium parking passes to contributors of $3,000 or more on football weekends. Now he wants to know why the staff of the Alumni Association Office does not offer some sensitivity, continuity and guidance to the currently sitting "good ole boys" who place the next generation of "hand-picked boys" on the ballot? 
In many ways, his question is quite valid. My sister was one of the first freshmen classes of women to enter Notre Dame. She fought against a tradi­tion of male preference that was ingrained in Notre Dame for over a cen­tury. She endured immature college "boys" insulting her on the quads. She suffered the indignities of being bypassed to be editor of a campus publi­cation, not on her merits, but on her gender. Have women finally won a place in the campus classrooms, but not in other university settings? 
Three weeks ago a freshman, Class of 2000, wrote a courageous, poignant let­ter to the editor about living on both sides of the ethnic bubble. He is a Cuban, but passes as the white, Catholic, stereotype that dominates the University's student population. He con­siders himself lucky to be able to see both sides, that can comfort, but which also contain fear, anger and bigotry. 
Notre Dame chooses to be so homoge­neous, reserving a quarte·r of each freshman class for children of alumni. Unlike Georgetown, for example, which barely has half of its enrollment Catholic, Notre Dame could be called the day to embrace as much diversity as possible throughout the university sys­tern. The real world demands it. 
Everyone recognizes that more men than women have graduated from Notre · Dame, although surely the Class of 1969 did not have one-third more graduates. Most will also recognize that while the gender representation was very accu­rate, the ethnic and cultural representa­tion of the Class of 2000 on the Notre Dame Magazine was not quite the actual makeup of the class, but an honest effort to be inclusive. Yet can anybody believe that not one woman or a person of color was qualified nor available for the alum­ni ballot this spring? 
Advocating quotas makes any conserv­ative shiver, especially the far-right con­servatives in the Notre Dame adminis­tration. However, this is another classic case of the age-old quota dilemma, "How can the Alumni Association be inclusive if it does not impose some type of quota for women and minorities?" 
As my "Oscar The Grouch" classmate might explain it , "You expect these ole boy types to be sensitive on their own? Hell, they'd sell Kangaroo meat to the dining halls if they could find some hand-picked boy to supply it. You tell everyone I said that, you hear? And see if you can mention the football stadium parking passes they give out to anyone with money instead of the alumni who deserve it." 
Gary J. Caruso, Notre Dame '73, worked at the U.S. House of Representatives for 18 years and is now a publicist with the International Union of Electronics Workers (IUE) in Washington, D.C. His column appears every other Friday and his Internet address is hottline@aol. com. 
---~-~-~~----~~......----~-----­

;ACCENT
page 12 Friday, February 21, 1997 
By LIZ FORAN Ediror-In-Chief 
S 
ometimes the lure of soft brown or blue eyes, an adorable face, cute body and winning dis­position can get you in big trouble. In some cases it can even get you evicted. 
"We don't allow students to have pets other than small caged animals or fish," stated Beth Hoffman, manager of Turtle Creek apartments, a largely stu­dent populated complex to the east of campus. "We're not being discriminatory, but on a whole stu­dents cannot take care of a pet to the extent that they need to be taken care of." 
Hoffman, who volunteers at South Bend animal shelter Pet Refuge, claims the number of stray ani­mals, mostly cats, around the apartment complex are descendants of pets abandoned by students who were graduating or going home for breaks. 
"Some of them are third or fourth generation (strays). We have caught some of them, but they are wild now," she added. "It's very, very sad." 

Responsible ownership 

Not all students are irresponsible regarding pet ownership, according to Billy Giles, a senior who lives in Turtle Creek. When he attempted to bring a puppy back from his hometown of New York to the complex, he was told he could not keep the pet and his lease at the same time. 
''I'm a city kid· who grew up in Manhattan, and I always wanted a dog," Giles said. "My parents said it was cruel to have a dog when you live in the city, and I agreed, but there seemed to be something funda­mentally American to have a dog. 
"My roommate and I adopted a·dog from a shelter in New York. She was cute, spunky, friendly, she didn't bite -completely not the type of dog you would expect from a shelter. 
"I knew people in Turtle Creek who had cats and dogs, but I called just to be sure," he said. 
He was told the apart­ment had stopped allow­ing pets two years before, and that only residents with pets before the ban were allowed to keep them through a grandfa­ther clause. 
"They (the management) wouldn't listen to me. I asked them to just look at the dog ­that she wasn't destructive. I told them I would take care of her, that I was a model tenant at Campus View for two years. I of­fered to pay extra rent, to rake leaves and shov­el snow it they would let me have a dog." 
Giles ended up bring­ing the dog back to school with him and finding a home for her on a nearby farm. He disagrees strongly with the policy that groups all students as irresponsible and unable to care for a pet. 
"You should be able to prove yourself," he said. "You should be able to provide references." 
L--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­

Finding a way 

Where's there is a will, there is a way, say two stu­dents who have an unauthorized dog at an apartment complex close to campus. 
-"The landlord ~doesn't know we have her," said one of the students, a senior at Notre Dame. "They don't live on the premises." 
The roommates acquired the dog, a five-year-old small mixed breed, from Pet Refuge, an agency which does require proof of an acceptable envi­ronment before placing their animals in homes. 
"We had Pet Refuge call our friend, who pretended she was the landlord," he said. "She told them it was all right for us to have a dog in the apartment. 
"Then we had them (Pet Refuge) call our friend's mother in New York, who pretended to be [one of the student's] mother. She said it was okay with her for us to have a dog, and that she would take the dog if one of us couldn't after graduation." 
The roommates do plan to give the dog to one's parents or a brother or sister if one of them cannot keep her upon graduation. 

The official route 

Lying is often the only way for a student to receive an animal from a pet shelter, according to Rosemary Hutchins, office manager at the South Bend Humane Society, who said they do get a number of requests from students each year interested in pets. 
"We do a lot of checking," she said. 
"We always check to see if they can handle them." 

this is The Humane Society does not refuse pets to stu­The dents, although they must make sure the apartment or dwelling will allow them and the animals will be provided for after graduation. "I don't want to give away all our secrets," Hutchins said, "but you can tell if a student is lying." She could not give a percentage of students who inquire who do eventually end up with pets. 
where > fuzzy 

House rules 
Avoiding student dominated apartment complexes, which do typically not allow pets, is often the only option for student insistent upon having animal com­panionship. 
Erin Sayer, a Saint Mary's senior who lives in Candlewood Apartments in Mishawaka, has had a kitten since she first moved in 
"I love it," said. had a cat all m y life, but 

~~ ~---~--­
Friday, February 21, 1997 
page 13 

the first time I've had one on my own." expense and occasional inconvenience of own­let are not major issues for Sayer, who spends an $10 in food and supplies for the cat weekly. 
short breaks from school, she has neighbors 
re of the cat. while on longer breaks he makes 
home to Long Lake, Minn., with her. 
raduate plans do include the cat-no matter 
she ends up, Sayer is determined to take her 
·iend with her. 
For safety's sake 


ent reasons prompt students to welcome pets cady days already crammed full of classes, g and extracurricular activities. Taking on the esponsibility of an animal, especially a dog, 
high degree of maturity and dedication. Mary's senior Erin Whealan and her room­ecided to get a puppy for their house on the 
er of Corby and Hill streets. They decided eir cute and fuzzy friend would be a ottweiler/German Shepherd mix. "In a way she's a watch dog, even though she's only a puppy," Whealan said. "She barks if anyone even walks by the house." 
For five women living in one of the more crime ridden areas of student dwellings, she is the perfect addition, although Whealan is quick to add that she serves 
not only that purpose. 
"She keeps the tension down," she  
laughed. "When people are fighting,  
\  they just go play with the dog and they usually feel better."  
J  
'  

Financial affair 
Even students who rent houses instead of apart­ments are subject to the will of the landlord as to whether or not they can keep pets. 
"Our landlord never said anything about it," Whealan said. "But he's seen the dog and he hasn't said anything about it." 
Sayer must pay $150 a year to have a cat at Candlewood Apartments. "That's just in case they pee on the carpet," she said. · 
But Hoffman said animals at Turtle Creek can cause more damage than students realize. Animals damaged thousands of dollars of property per year back when the apartment allowed animals. 
"The reasoning (behind not allowing pets) is finan­cial as well," she said. "We've replaced thousands of dollars worth of carpeting." 
.. 
··~­
Not fair to who? 

The reason Hoffman returned to time and again as to why students should not have pets was the health and welfare of the animals, citing abandonment, im­proper care and the erratic hours students keep as being unfair to the animal. 
"When I told a girl last year that she couldn't have a puppy, she picked the dog up, walked outside the apartment and dropped him into someone's back­yard," Hoffman recalled. "She told me, 'Now I no longer have a puppy.' We had to take him to the pound." 
At the time of this interview, Hoffman was just about to leave to remind another tenant of the no pets policy. 
"The maintenance man discovered a cat," she said. "We were just about to go over with a copy of the ·lease." 
"We see the results," she added, when 
cats are outside freezing during the win­
ter after being abandoned. "We found 
one cat this year that was very sick 
and pregnant. 

"It's not fair to the animals," 
she stressed. "In this commu­
nity, it's what works best for 
us." 

• STUFF To Do 
C>rt CampLJ..s 
T
he University of Notre Dame String Trio will per­form a recital tonight at 7:30 p.m. in the 20th Century Gallery of the Snite Museum of Art. 
The trio consists of three Notre Dame faculty mem­bers: associate professors of music Carolyn Plummer (violin) and Karen Buranskas (cello) and assistant pro­fessor of music Christine Rutledge (violin). 
Included in the program will be selections from Franz Schubert, Bohuslav Martinu and Irving Fine. 
Recently, the Trio was awarded a grant from the Institute for Scholarship in the Liberal Arts to produce a recording of Paul Hindemith's "String Trio.'' 
Admission is free but seating is limited. Seats can be reserved by calling 631-6201. 
P
aul-Andre Bempechat will perform a piano concert at 2 p.m. Sunday afternoon in the Annenberg Auditorium. 
Schubert's "Sonata in G Major" and Johannes Brahms' "Seven Fantasias" and "Three Intermezzi" will be featured. 
A pre-concert lecture begins at 1 p.m. Tickets are $5 for the general public, $2 for students and senior citi­zens. 
A new exhibit entitled "Portraits on Paper: J-\.selections from the Permanent Collection" will open at the Snite Museum of Art on Sunday. 
The exhibit explores the complex relationship among artist, subject and viewer as expressed in different cul­tures and periods using various media on paper. 
Drawings in the exhibit will include pastels by the 18th century artists Rosalba Carriera and John Russell. Artists from the 19th century on display include Jacques-Louis David, Edgar Degas, Puvis de Chavannes and Adolph von Menzel. Augustus John's "Portrait of Cyril Connolly" is a notable drawing from the 20th cen­tury. 
Woodcut prints by Max Beckman and Leonard Baskin will be included with works by Jacques Villion, Kathe Kollwitz and Alfred Leslie. 
Twentieth century photographs by Arnold Newman, Diane Arbus, Richard Avedon and W. Eugene Smith will also be exhibited. Their subjects include famous artists, soldiers, street children, Native Americans, prostitutes and the dead. 
The exhibit runs until March 30. 
.A.re>LJ.rtcl ..--owrt 
B
arnes and Noble on Grape Road welcomes screen­writer and South Bend native Larry Karaszewski for a discussion and book signing Sunday at 2:30p.m. 
Karaszewski and college pal Scott Alexander wrote the screenplay for the Oscar-nominated 'The People vs. Larry Flint," starring Woody Harrelson and Courtney Love. They have also written the screenplays 
. for "Ed Wood," "Problem Child," "Problem Child 2," Disney's recent release "That Darn Cat," and "Mars Attacks!" Their upcoming projects include an animat­ed musical, "Cats Don't Dance," and a live-action ver­sion of "The Jetsons.'' 
F
or those who couldn't get enough of "Star Wars: A New Hope" and had to go see it five or six times, "The Empire Strikes Back" opens tonight on four screens in the area. 
Movies 10 in Mishawaka will be showing "Empire" at 11 a.m., 12, 1:45, 2:45, 4:30, 5:30, 7:15, 8:15 and 10 
p.m. "Star Wars" will continue to run on one screen at 
11:30 a.m., 2:15, 5, 7:45 and 10:30 p.m. 
Scottsdale 6 at Scottsdale Mall is screening "Empire" at 9:45 and 10:45 a.m. on Saturday and Sunday. Regular showtimes are 12:45, 1:15, 3:45, 4:15, 6:45, 7:15, 9:45 and 10 p.m. "Star Wars" runs at 10:30 a.m. Saturday and Sunday and 1:30, 4:30, 7:30 and 10:15 
p.m. everyday. Feel the Force. 
----~ 

----------·----~-~----~ 
------------------·------------------~------------------­


page 14 The Observer • SPORTS 
Miller 
continued from page 24 
play Division I basketball out of high school but walked on to the Irish squad as a freshman, playing in 25 games and getting attention not for his offense, as most shooting guards do, but for his defense. 
He was awarded a scholar­ship in his sophomore year, but the money was only guaranteed on a season-by-season basis. The guard saw a bit more time, but played behind Ryan Hoover and Keith Kurowski, two of Notre Dame's better athletes. He retained the scholarship for his junior year and played the same role as a back-up. 
He began to become a scoring threat with his deep shooting, but injuries affected his season and forced him to the bench. 
But in Miller's senior year, he entered school without a schol­arship forcing him to leave the team to help finance his educa­tion. 
"It was a weird feeling not to be on the team," Miller con­firmed. ''I'd played basketball since I'd been in third grade. All of a sudden to have that gone without expecting it to be gone ... it was hard. It's been nice to come back and know that I've got one year left." 
An injury to Kurowski, the last in a long string of ailments for the guard, opened up a scholarship for Miller, allowing him to suit up again. What has followed his reinstatement is an appointment to a team co-cap­tain position, as W!Jil as a spot in the starting line-up. 
Funny how things work out. 

"It's been a strange twist of events," he admitted. "I guess you never know how things will 
Classifieds 
work out. I guess the best thing to do is try your best when you have the chance and maybe things will work themselves out." 
Like most outside shooters, Miller has been streaky this season, going through some games where the hoop seems as big as an ocean and others where it's as small as a thim­ble. But off-days are not the result of a lack of effort. 
"Probably, I 1\ke to be in a gym by myself the most, prac­ticing on my own, working on my shot," he revealed. "I think the extra work has really helped me out this year. 
"I originally wasn't going to be on the team this year, so when I got the chance I decided that I'd try to make the most out of it. I think that I've put in a lot of extra work, and it's paid off a lot." 
"Pete puts a lot of effort into being a basketball player," MacLeod said. "He takes hours and hours of time practicing his shooting. If nobody wants to shoot with him, he'll grab a ball and go by himself. He's got a singleness of purpose that re­ally is rare." 
Miller, known as a freshman as a tenacious defender, likes that challenge as well. 
"I take pride in playing de­fense. I think defense is just the determination to stop your opponent. It's a lot of hustle. You've got to have a lot of heart to play defense, and I like that." 
"Every game in the Big East is a challenge, and there's always going to be a talented opponent. It's never very hard to get motivated against them." 
"Pete goes up against the best, or one of the best, athletes from the other team in every game," MacLeod offered. " He doesn't back down; he "rises to 
If anyone found a blue Notre Dame book bag outside of 305 DeBartolo
NOTICES 
Hall betweel) 12:30 and 1 :30 

SPRING BREAK PANAMA CITY BEACH FLORIDA SANDPIPER-BEACON BEACH RESORT 3 POOLS, 1 INDOOR POOL, HUGE BEACHSIDE HOT TUB, SUITES UP TO 10 PEOPLE TIKI BEACH BAR, HOME OF THE BIGGEST PARTY. FREE INFO 1·800-488-8828 WWW.SANDPIPERBEACON.COM 
Monday afternoon, please contact Joe at x2088. 
LOST. One black leather ladies glove with white fur lining. Oh, how I miss it! Beth x4951 
Lost: Navy blue backpack in SDH at dinner on Wed. Important CPA books are inside! Please return if 

picked up by mistake. No questions  
"'L:.:_  asked.  
THE COPY SHOP  Call4-3397.  
LaFortune Student Center  

Sun.: Noon· Midnight Open Early, Late, & Weekends 
SPRING BREAK! MARCO ISLAND, FLORIDA AND 
S. PADRE, TX BEACHFRONT CONDOS SLEEPS 4 TO B. FROM $695 WEEK. PRICES DISCOUNT­ED BY OWNER. 941-642·5483 
MICHIANA PAINTBALL IS NOW OPEN FOR INDOOR PAINTBALL GAMES AT SCOTISDALE MALL. 
,~ CALL 291·2540 FOR INFO. 
•••ACT NOW! LAST CHANCE TO 
CALL LEISURE TOURS AND GET 
FREE INFO FOR SPRING BREAK 
PACKAGES TO SOUTH PADRE,
" 
CANCUN, JAMAICA AND FLORI· DA. 1·800-838-8203 
I , RAPE SUPPORT GROUP ·Offered on-campus for ND 
' 
and SMC students -Completely Confidential For more information, call Sex Offense Services at 
283-1308 RAPE SUPPORT GROUP 

Thank you St. Jude, for prayers answered. 
ILOST & FO~ND I 
FEMALE AND MALE CAMP COUNSELORS needed for out­standing Maine camps! CAMP VEGA for girls and CAMP CEDAR for boys. Each located on magnifi­cent lakefront setting with excep· tional facilities. Over 1 00 positions at each camp lor heads and assis· !ants in tennis, basketball, baseball, volleyball, soccer, lacrosse, golf, field hockey, roller hockey, swim­ming, sailing, canoeing, scuba, water-skiing, archery, weight train­ing, athletic trainer, journalism, pho· tography, ceramics, crafts, drama, dance uazz, tap, ballet). nature study. backpacking, horseback riding, ropes course, trip leaders. mountain biking. riflery. general (w/youngest campers). Also looking for secre­taries, maintenance, kitchen. Camp dates approx. June 21·Aug 21. Top salary, room, board, laundry, cloth· ing, and travel allowance. MEN­CAMP CEDAR for boys, 1758 Beacon Street, Brookling, MA 02146, ccedarme@aol.com, 1-888­844·8080. WOMEN·CAMP VEGA, PO Box 1771, Duxbury, MA 02332, jobs@campvega.com, http://cam­pvega.com, 1-800·838·VEGA. WE WILL BE ON THE NOTRE DAME CAMPUS, Monday, March 3 in the LaFortune Student Center, Dooley 
Room from 10AM to 4PM. NO APPOINTMENT NECESSARY. 

the challenge." 
Such players have included Derek Anderson from Kentucky. Neil Reed from Indiana. Felipe Lopez from St. John's. 
Guys that are highly touted, expected to go to the pros. Miller wasn't even expected to play college ball. 
Two seniors start in the back court for the Irish, Miller and Admore White. White was ex­pected to take the reins of the team as a freshman, but never came into his own until this year. But the two have worked together, figuring out the oth­er's court habits, and have turned into a tandem that works. 
"We know each other's ten­dencies really well. Admore has really come into his own as a player this year. I feel com­fortable playing with him. What's really helped us this year is that he's become an of­fensive threat. So now he pen­etrates, I can spot up on the wing, and he'll kick it to me and I'll be wide open." 
"Pete and Ad have given us everything they've had this year," MacLeod evaluated. "There's a real bond that's de­veloped between them that's picked up steam for four years, and it's really fun to watch." 
Miller, besides the concussion against the Mountaineers, has .had stitches in his head and presently has a broken nose. It seems that Miller likes a bit of contact in his game. Perhaps not of the injury kind, but he likes to get his hands dirty. Do the little things. Contribute whatever he can to the effort. Not expect attention, but get the job done. He thinks that this may be a forgotten art. 
"Today you get these guys who have been told since they 
Wanted: DRIVER to take student 
from Clay H.S. to SMC. M. Tu, Th, Recyclin' Irish is accepting applica-Reuland the best director ever:1 0.
TICKETS
2:45pm. $18/wk lions for Pres,'VP, Sec, Treas. and drives his cast toChicago 1 OOmph 
233-4581 or 631-7531 
WANTED: BASKETBALL TICKETS SUMMER JOBS FOR SATURDAY! GA OR STU­ALL LAND/WATER SPORTS DENT. CALL PRESTIGE CHIDREN'S CAMPS 273-2580. PLEASE WE WANT TO ADIRONDACK MOUNTAINS GO TO A GAME THIS YEAR! 
Historian. Apps available in AI @3am wlo a license 9.He's always mailbox in CSC-<lue back in mail-up for a "3some" 8.1nfamous fresh· box by Mon. Feb. 24. Call Cristin man initiation rites ?.Lloyd-his sig· (X4408} or Karen (X1277) for more nificant other 6. LCGset info. Olympics: let's see who can screw 
the most in 1 hr! 5.Math majors don't 

NEAR LAKE PLACID SEPTEMBER 67 and take theater classes! 4.CO-ED 1·800· 786-8373 Need 2 GA's for guys WILCO!!!!!! NAKED ACTING! 3.'1et's talk about 
Providence game on Sat. together at Stepan (meaningless) _ ' 2Where else ALASKA EMPLOYMENT-Earn up Call Bill at x-0544 Feb.25 at 8 pm would we get the liquor bottles for to $3,000·$6,000+/mo. in fisheries, only $10 with an ID. the play?! 1.He's good ... REAL parks, resorts. Airfare! Need 2 GA's for guys COME ROCK and GROOVE!!! GOOD! (how do you think we got Food/Lodging! Get all the options. Providence game on Sat. Get your tix at the LaFun info desk our parts?) Call Call Bill at x-0544 before they're gone! for a night of drinking, kidnapping, (919}918·7767, ext.A154. Compliments of SUB schizophrenia and crossdressing, 
Phone 631-COPY Mon.: 7:30 a.m. -Midnight LOST. One black leather EASTERN EUROPE/ASIAN JOBS Tues.: 7:30 a.m. -Midnight ladies glove with white fur lining. Live in Prague, Budapest, Tokyo, Wed.: 7:30 a.m. • Midnight Oh, how I miss it! Beth x4951 -etc. teaching simple conversational Thur.: 7:30a.m. -Midnight English. No languages/teaching Fri.: 7:30a.m.-7:00p.m. exp. required.
WANTED

Sat.: Noon · 6:00 p.m. (919)918-7767, Ext. W154. 
come see Andrew and his wild & 

PERSONAL 
GEORGE AND THE FREEKS untamed cast in LIE, CHEAT & 

THIS SATURDAY NIGHT GENUFLECT fri&sat 7:30pm wash For a gift• that is unique, send a AT DALLOWAY'S AT SMC hall BELL YGRAM to your SHEIK! You don't need an LD. 234-3355 it's 18 and over! Yes, you can get Bryan, Mike, Judy, Barb, 
in to see the Freeks play! Courtenay and anyone else who 

GEORGE AND THE FREEKS deserves this-Electrolysis by Rebecca Since Bryan blatantly begged for 
FOR RENT 
Blend Method 674·6933 Applications for Marketing Club a personal, here it is. We're send-
Officers are available outside of ing all our love (mostly platonic) Homes for Rent for 97-98 JAZZERCISE L059 COBA. Due 2124/97. across the Big Pond to our favorite ADT Security 232-2595 Very close to campus Questions call 1-9330. Londoners hangin' on Albemarle. 277·0111 Anybody picked up Di yet? How 
AFFORDABLE 1 ,2, & 3 BDRM HOMES. AVAIL. NOW. NEAR COLOR COPIES ON CAMPUS! !I CAMPUS. GILLIS PROPERTIES COLOR COPIES ON CAMPUS!! I 272-6551 COLOR COPIES ON CAMPUS!!! 
The highest quality color copies BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY are now available at 219-291-i153 FAX 1185 THE COPY SHOP 
LaFortune Student Center POTATO HOUSE· 8-BDRM-FOR Phone 631-COPY 
NEXT SCHOOL YEAR. 277-3097. 
Are you athletic and looking to NICE FURNISHED HOMES FOR increase your endurance, energy NEXT SCHOOL YEAR NORTH OF and mental focus? You are a phone ND2773097 call away from changing your entire 
future! 1·800·927·2527 ext. 1051 
Need a townhouse this summer? 
We need to sublet ours I Call us at ADOPTION: 
273-9829! Corporate Executive & homemaker 
can offer newborn a wondertul.life filled with warmth, security, endless 
FOR SALE 
love, education & a bright future. 
ConfidentiaL Mark Bed -Queensize orthopedic premi-& Candace 1-888-81 H 141 
um mattress set. Never used still in package -cost 550 sacrifice 175. Adoption: A very loving, financially 
(219) 674-2352 secure, well educated young cou­
pie, long to adopt your newborn. ...Pioneer Stereo For Sale ... Close and caring extended family. 6·Disc CD Player and We offer a special life for your child. Stereo Reciever with Remote Expenses paid. Please call Sherri & 
$350 o.b.o. Joe 1-800·378·6680. 
call Vince @ 257-2932 
Friday, February 21, 1997 

were in high school that they're all-stars, the greatest. When they get to college they think that everybody is going to kneel down before them and let them do whatever they want. People tend to lose focus on what's really important about the game of basketball. 
"It's a team game, and the way basketball should be played is that each guy con­tributes to the team. There's so many guys concerned today about individual stuff, their own statistics, their own future, when what's really important is how the team does. When I came out of high school, no­

in 'the t round of the UST AliTA Women's National 
body expected me to do any­thing." 
"And so I came into college with the attitude that I would do whatever I could to con­tribute to the team~ And I think that's what's really kept me going." 
Miller walks onto the court every game just as he did when he was a freshman without a scholarship. He epitomizes the phrase "there is no I in TEAM." He does his job. 
Miller doesn't receive very many standing ovations. He probably doesn't even want them. 
Refreshing, isn't it? 
of Jennifer Han and Tiffany Gates posted an 8-5 win over 
Championship in Madison,, "Angela Lawrence and Isabella Wisconsin, .. iF Petrov. 
The loss drops Notre Dame's · However, Pepperdine came record to 4-2 on the season back by winning the next two while Pepperdine remains matches, claiming the doubles undefeated at 5-0. The Irish point. will still compete in the conso· In the singles matches, Hall lation phase of the tourna-and Gates both struck again. ment, which runs through Hall defeated Petrov 6·3, 3-6, Sunday. 7-5, in the first match while 
Despite the loss, the Irish Gates defeated Pepperdine's willstill compete in two more Anna Svedenhov 6-2, 7-6 (2) matches during the tourna~ in the third. However, ment against two of the top Pepperdine secured the next sixteen teams in the country. three matches for the win. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
INTERESTED IN LEADERSHIP? top10 things that make Andrew 
Electrolysis by Rebecca 'bout Chuck? We're not having Blend Method 674-6933 quite as much fun, but we're going 
broke too, so you suck. Sandra
·······················•***"'* Bullock hasn't called me yet. Jen "The Marketing Life of Curiosity" and Julie got their beads in a G-Presentation by Thomas Quinn, rated manner. Mia might be in CEO of JW.Messner on Tuesday London. I took Colleen. There are Feb. 25 at 4:00 in 121 COBA. no sheep here but we do have the Open to all! Sponsored by the ska version of "Take On Me" by A-
Marketing Club Ha. And Shannon Dunne is the ************"***************** most beautiful woman on this cam· 
pus. But that's the last time I'm Boy, nothing like sticking to the floor going to say it. Keep drinkin' you at Club! bloody lushes. 
-Dan, Mia, Jen, Julie, Julie, 
Dear wicket, thanks for the milk Melanie, Erin, Joe, Michelle, Mindy, and cookies. i hope your boyfriend Colleen, and the band. 
isn't too jealous. happy belated V-Day. love, C3PO I am Tiger Woods. 
THANK YOU Andrew, Jenn, Liz, Boy, nothing like sticking to the floor Helga, Meghan, & Cheryl!!! Love, at Club! 
your funny & sexy cast of LCG :) 
Shooting Cupid -coming soon to s~s~s~s~s~s~s~s~ a venue near you. Are you Ready? SKACOHOLIKS Skankin' their way back home to Open memo to all staff: be there on JAZZMAN'S Nile Club Saturday...or else. See posters for Friday, Febraury 21 reference. 
10:30 p.m. SkaSkaSkaSkaSkaSkaSkaSka How precisely does one skank? 

-----~--------------~-----~-------------~---~-~-----~---~ 
--~~--~-------------~~-------------.-------­

Friday, February 21, 1997 The Observer • SPORTS page 15 
.-· I
reers."

• MEtts TENNIS 
"The most important thing is

Seniors 
that they have accepted their 

continued from page 24 roles," McGraw said.
Irish set for tough .challenge 
"Jeannine is a great defensive By JIM ZALET A are strong and belt the b~dl. prepared to face them." books as they have been focal player and great point-guard, Sports Writer They will dictate play on On Thursday the Irish prac­points in many firsts for the and she'll give the ball up. 
program while fulfilling those Rosanne will play great defenseSunday." ticed returning tough serves in expectations. and do a lot of the blue collar
The 8-2 Notre Dame men's North Carolina is led by tri­preparation for the match. tennis team will face the what captain senior Paul Harsanyi. The top-ranked play of the "Last year was our best sea­work." may turnout to be its toughest He and Rob Tedesco won the Tar Heels will be similar to the son ever. and now this year is With the dynamic duo of match of the season on Sunday. No. 3 doubles title last year. two opponents Notre Dame our best. So they have really Morgan and Gaither and 
Bohman and Augustin filling

The Tar Heels of North His overall record last season faced over-the weekend. reached two high watermarks 
for the program," McGraw said. their roles, the team has a com­Carolina travel the Eck Tennis was an impressive 22-9. With a close loss on Saturday 
Pavilion to face the No. 29 Four other players had 20 to Texas and an upset win "I think it is great for them to plete mix. t ranked Irish. win seasons last year for the Sunday against Duke, the Irish be able to look back and say 'I "When other teams have fo­
The No. 13 ranked Tar Heels Tar Heels including juniors have proved that they can com­did what I came here to do and cused on me or Katryna, they l Imade a great contribution to have stepped up," Morgan said. 
are coming off of their fifth con­Tedesco and Tony 'Thomas. pete among the best. 
I

the program."' With just two more regular
secutive NCAA appearance sea­Tedesco, off to a good start The Tar Heels are undefeat­t son. this season, looks to repeat as ed, but they have not faced the This season, the Irish have season contests remaining, The Tar Heels team is one of an All-ACC player again this top opponents like Notre Dame been in the top 25 all year long, McGraw will look for her squad l 
to make some noise in the post

the most well-balanced in the year. has. and they cracked the top ten I 
country, according to Irish In his career, he has spilt vic­"They are a well-balanced, for the first time in school's his­season behind the· tremendous Coach Bobby Bayliss. tories with Notre Dame junior well coached, respectable tory earlier in the year when leadership that the seniors 
they knocked off two top ten bring. The busy Irish schedule !
"Their mid to low part of the Jakub Pietrowski. team," Bayliss said. lineup is exceptionally strong, Irish freshman Trent Miller Bayliss' outlook for the rest of squads. They also made their has not allowed them to think I where most teams drop down believes the team is ready to the season is mostly positive, national television debut earlier about what tomorrow repre­in this area, their whole team is face off against the Tar Heels. but the Irish have to work for it. this year. Last year they picked sents. But they realize that l very talented," he said. "We are coming in strong af­The remaining opponents are up their first NCAA tournament their contest against the -~ 
"The Tar Heels are known for ter two straight wins." Miller not going to be easy matches. victory last season with an Pirates (whom they sank the 
I

upset over Purdue. last time out by 40) will be their 
their hard and powerful serves. said after their victory against "We are not an overwhelming They have three players be­Indiana on Tuesday. team. We can beat a ranked This class is unique in that it last in the Joyce Center. tween 6-foot-3 and 6-foot-6 and "They hit hard, but we are team one day, Duke, and have a has the two most prolific scor­"These four years have gone 
DON'T BE ANOTHER ANONYMOUS ND WOMAN. 
Join the Women's Resource Center (WRC) and mal<e your time here matter. Come t6''the 
p.!~~~u:k' ~~~,~~~~~ ~Pthe 
Student Government Office, on the 2nd floor of LaFortune. 
COLLEGE 2for 1 FOOTBALL 
Admission
HALL a<A.ME 
SU t' T ll 11•: '\II. IS Ill.\ S .\ 


Michiana Paintball 
291-9482 1/2 price -$5 per person 
Call ahaa(l for location and rasarvations! 

\4~~ Buy ene sandwich y~'~ er salad, get 1/2 eff 2nd ene. .Exp. 3/1/'17. 
rough time with an easier team ers in history who are also two by so fast," Morgan said. "I another." of the best women's basketball haven't really thought about it, As long ·as the Irish continue players in the land. Beth but I am sure it will hit us when Morgan became the first to we walk on the court with our
to play up to their ability and 
work hard they should continue score over 2,000 points, and parents." to win the remainder of the her classmate Gaither is the The Irish will not be caught season. next closest as she was the up with these sentimental 
"As long as we are ready to 12th player in Irish history to thoughts for long as they know score over 1,000 points. Both they will tip-off several more
play, stay healthy and are hun­gry to win, we should win the have received national recogni­times in their career. 
rest of our matches," Bayliss tion and are considered All­"We still have some unfin­
American candidates. Unlike ished business," Morgan said.
said. 

The toughest one ahead of Morgan and Gaither, you will "We want to dominate the next · them is the Blue-Gray National not find Bohman or Augustin's two games and go the Big East 
Classic over Spring Break. names written all over the championship and play UConn . 
The tournament will include record books, but they can be Then we hope we'II get a good 12 of the top 16 teams in the found at the heart of wins. seed in ·the NCAA country and will provide a good "Both Rosanne and Jeannine Tournament." 
test for the Irish. have really stepped up their So the group that has already -· game this season," Morgan rewritten the history books still said. "They are playing the has a couple of empty pages best basketball of their ca-that have yet to be touched. 
Swiss Valley Specials 
Friday: 
$4 Off rental and lift ticket with student 10 
Saturday: 
2 for 1 Iift tickets after 6pm 
Sunday: 
$13 lift tickets after 3pm 

Other Ideas..: 5 ticket voucher for any off-campus movie (available at the LaFortune Info Desk) • Tubing at Saint Patrick's Park (277-4828) • Friday crab races at Finni an's 
\,' I ~ 
page 16 The Observer • SPORTS 
• fENCING 

Siek epitomizes ND values 
r 
I I I 
I 
I I 
I 
I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I 
l ­
l I 
I 
~ 
I 
I 
' I 
I 
I 
By DAVlD FRICK 
Sporrs Writer 
Notre Dame fencing repre­sents one of the finest traditions in college athletics. 
For the past thirty-five years, no other fencing squad has been as consistently dominant. 
If one individual were to personify the Notre Dame excellence on and off the strip, senior foil captain Jeremy Siek is the one. 
Sick's accomplishments as­tound: three-time All­American, top foilist of Notre Dame squad for four years, twice captain of the foil squad, eighth on the all-time Notre Dame win list, twice Midwest foil champion, and member of the 1993 United States Junior Pan-American fencing team. But, numbers do not represent the value of a star like Siek. 
"Jeremy is a great leader for the foil team, especially with a predominantly young squad," said head coach Yves Auriol. 
Leadership is a new found quality for Siek, who has trans­formed from a quiet kid his freshman year to a dominant presence in his final season. 
''I've really tried this year to be more emotional so that the rest of the team can feed off of my energy," said Siek. 
"Jeremy has really improved 

• in his confidence as a captain this year, and that has been helpful to all of us," said sopho­more foilist Stephane Auriol. 
A different sort of transformation occurred for Siek on the strip. While he always showed a great deal of brilliance each year, this year he has added a consistency that strikes fear in the heart of opponents. 

"This season is Jeremy's best. In the past, he has been incon­sistent. This year he has put it all together, and I think his best performance will be when the NCAAs come around." 
"I think he is recognized by his opponents as a strong candidate for the NCAA championship. He can beat­anyone," said the elder Auriol. 
"I feel really good about my fencing. I've put myself on an­other level this year by adding consistency. I feel stronger and faster," said Siek. 
"But, to win a championship will be tough with the stiff com­petition" 
One person who has wit­nessed Siek's greatness for the past four years is fellow fencing star, senior sabre captain Bill Lester. 
Both have been two-time cap­tains for the team, and together have combined for a whopping 386 wins to only 59 defeats. Though Lester has a slight lead in win total, Siek holds a higher win percentage. 
"Jeremy is amazing. For all the things I do, he does them better. He's a top fencer, great student, and just a great guy overall. He deserves more credit than he receives," said Lester . 
The prowess in the classroom is represented in his 3.44 GPA in Mathematics as an· Honor Student. 
With the heavy demands of the fencing travel schedule, this number is nothing short of amazing. 
;_~~~~-"""~~ ... A little_wine, and even Jesus is a regular Casanova with the ladies. 
Happy2J8T 
Birthdayjesus. 

"Every semester, I look back and wonder how I managed," said Siek. 
The sky is the limit-for Siek following his graduation. His heart is torn between following a possible Olympic dream, and continuing his education at graduate school. 
"I told myself in high school that if I was one of the top eight fencers in the nation, I would give the Olympics a shot. At some point I will have to make a decision, but right now I'm just focusing on the season," said Siek. 
Notre Dame fencing is as good as they come. Excellence, leadership, and scholarship are all qualities which have been associated with the squad in the past and present. 
Jeremy Siek takes these qual­ities and personifies them in every aspect of his life. Siek is a true student-athlete, and a credit to Notre Dame. 

~-----~-------------~~~~------------~--~--------~----------~~--------~-------.--~--.-­
Friday, February 21, 1996 The Observer • SPORTS page 17 
-

• HOCKEY 
leers hope to end season with less pressure, more fun 
Season winding down as playoff hopes disappear 
By CHARLEY GATES Sports Wrirer 
With their season concluding and with their playoff aspira­tions contingent on cir­cumstances beyond their con­trol. the Irish hockey squad may implement a new strategy for this weekend's games against WesterJl. Michigan. 
"We're going to focus on go­ing out and having fun," stated freshman sensation Ben Simon. "Even if we win our three remaining games, we still could miss making the playoffs [the Irish currently trail the last playoff spot by four points]. 
"So we're just going to go out and have fun. Earlier in the season, we were focused on lit­tle things and got distracted. But now that's going to change." 
Don't take Simon's words too lightly. By "fun" he doesn't 
i H ll ((l\ tih 10) ' TIJ
<&JPJPY JL Jl · llJ)n.Jriltll. <&y­
A//ison Main 
mean exchanging jokes on the bench. 
He means playing without worrying; he means scoring goals, winning games, and enjoying the process. 
"Losing isn't any fun," he ob­served. 
If losses are the yardstick of measurement for fun, then this year's hockey season has been like a funeral. 
The Irish are 8-23-1 overall and 5-18-1 in the competitive Central Collegiate Hockey Association and currently are mired in an eight-game losing streak. 
The most recent losses came last weekend against a big, bad Michigan team, which is cur­rently ranked first in the coun­try. The Wolverines soundly beat the Irish, 3-1 and 6-1. 
"Earlier in the week some of the guys' spirits were down," stated sophomore forward Brian Urick, whose exciting play has been one of the high­lights for Irish hockey fans this season. 
"On Monday," added Simon, "we were all kind of bummed. Not everyone came to practice mentally ready to play, and Poulin [head coach] threw us off the ice. But we came back on Tuesday ready to go." 

"As the week wore on, guys started to forget about last weekend and just began to concentrate on this weekend's games against Western Michigan." 
What went on in practice this week, aside from being tossed of the ice? 
"We worked a lot on one-on-one bat­tles in the corner," stated Urick. 
"That's probably the biggest thing we've worked on. We've also practiced our shooting and scoring, because that
has been problemat­
ic for us at times this season." 
"We just worked 
home against Michigan State, aon the fundamentals," added difficult opponent. Ferris State,Simon. "We're a well-condi­
however, plays three games
tioned team, but it's a long sea­this weekend away at Alaska­son and some guys are tired. 
Fairbanks, a team that is at theThe last couple of weeks of sea­bottom of the CCHA and a teamson can be tough." 
that Ferris State is not likely toNotre Dame currently trails lose many games to. 
Ferris State, which sits in 
Even if the Irish win their
eighth place, the last playoff next three games, Ferris Statespot for the CCHA tournament, would have to lose two of theirby four points and with three final three games for Notre
games remaining. Two of these remaining contests will be played this weekend against Western Michigan. 
Tonight, the teams square off at the Joyce Center at 7 p.m., and on Saturday evening the Boys of Winter travel to Big Rapids for the part II of this double header. 
N.otre Dame's final game is at 
L_______________________________J 
The Observer/Brandon Candura 

Sophomore Benoit Cotnoir battles in the corner with an opponent. With their play­off chances out of their hands, they will skate with a new attitude. 
Dame to make the playoffs. A tie and a win by Ferris 
State in their final three games would guaranteed them a spot in the playoffs. 
Though the playoff outlook for the Boys' may not be bright, Simon gave some good advice. Now is a great time for the 
1 
young Irish squad to learn to 
1
enjoy playing hockey and, more 
1
importantly, to win. 
I 
. I I I 
. I 


--~·
r-------........··-~-.....,........,-~.---·-~-··-~·-----------·-------·-­

The Observer • SPORTS Friday, February 21, 1996 
-
• MEN'S BASKETBALL 
ND tips-off against Providence 
NEED HELP JOB HUNTING? 
READY-TO-WORKsM will electronically market
Information Meeting 

your availability to potential employers throughout the Internet for as little as $10!!!
Feb 25th (Tues) 

SOCIAL 

* RTW will easily & quickly, put YOU on the net
6:30-7:00 PM 
CONCERNS 

* RTW will give you international visibility
at the Center for Social Concerns 

* RTW will bring employers directly to you 
African American 

* RTW will forward your resume to employers
& Hispanic 

Advertise your availability through 
READY-TO-WORKsM! 
EMPLOYERS, search our database for FREE! 
Summer of 1997 

$2300.00 for 10 week program For details, call: (847) 604-2452 Three elective Theology credits Or visit: www.readytowork.comHA AA St. Procopius-Cgo St. Agatha-ego 
READY-TO-WORK, L.L.C.
St. Ben's-Detroit St. V. de Paul-San 
P.O. Box 7470

Diego (South Bend) Libertyville, IL 60048-7470 (847) 680-7894 
Center for Social Concerns NEED 
HELP JOB HUNTING?SM
Fax: (847) 680-7917 
Office of Multicultural Student Affairs 
By DAVE TREACY 
Associate Sports Editor 
Notre Dame did not fare well in its last outing against Providence College, to say the least. In what can only be termed a massacre, the Friars pressed the Irish into an 82-59 decision. But that was over two months ago, and Notre Dame is a different team now than they were thim.
I 
"We've gotten a little more

I 
confidence since we last played 
I 
I 
I them," guard Pete Miller as­sessed. "People know their 
roles, and we're playing more together as a team." Guard Jamel Thomas led
I Providence in scoring in the last contest, a testament to their finesse. Irish coach John
II ~ 
MacLeod sees many layers to the Friars that make them
l 
tough to handle. "The combination of speed,
l quickness, power, and finesse that they have is really tremen­dous," he commented. "They've played well on the road against Wisconsin and Texas, and those are two teams that are not easy wins, but they got them both." Hopefully, the Irish will learn from previous mistakes in order to prevent history from re­peating itself. "Last time we had a lot of problems with their pressure right away," guard Pete Miller recalled. "They're really quick, really athletic, and they put a lot of defensive pressure on us. We didn't handle that well, and we never got into our offensive flow. We're really going to have to concentrate on beating the trap and taking care of the ball a little better." The trap is only one area of the game that the Irish will try to improve. MacLeod cited bet­ter shot selection and offensive rebounding as areas that his 

squad will concentrate on against the Friars. 
Sitting atop the Big East 7 standings with a 10-5 confer­ence record (19-7 overall), Providence has not slowed down this season. Forward Austin Croshere, a 6-9 senior forward, is showcasing his tal­ents, and has led his team in scoring in six of their last seven contests. He also has led the squad in rebounding three times in that same span. 
"Austin is a tough competitor. He's really playing well for them, and he'll be a great match-up for Pat (Garrity)." 
Garrity has continued to put up numbers befitting of a po­tential Big East player of the year, and, like Croshere, is counted on to clean the glass as welL The match-up may be one of the best that'll be found in the Joyce Center this season. 
Notre Dame has puzzled many a basketball fan as of late. After chugging through three straight wins over St. John's, Connecticut, and West Virginia, they suffered a tough loss at the hands of the Villanova Wildcats last Sunday, then followed it up with a loss to Seton Hall, playing the sec­ond half in a funk. Which team will show up to face Providence? 
"We have to get over that loss (to Seton Hall) right now," Miller recognized. "We only have three games left (before the Big East tournament). and we can't make excuses. The way we lost that game (to Seton Hall) was not acceptable, but we can't sit back and feel sorry for ourselves. We have to come out Saturday and put that game behind us." 
Part of the problem has been the lack of a killer instinct. But it is a problem that the team knows it needs to address. 
"We have to learn not to let a team back into a game. Coach always says you've got to take away their will to live, and that's something we're going to have to do over the next three games," Miller said. "It's the time when the good teams step up and the one's that don't are the ones that stay home. So it's time for us to step up right now." 
Sounds like fighting words. 
Diesel! 
Home Squeeze is 191 
Ao/JZ. !!iJad'[j· A/cfyaao 

Friday, February 21, 1996 The Observer • SPORTS page 19 
• SoFTBALL 
Softball squad sets sights high despite graduations 
By ALLISON KRILLA Miller will rely on returning in 53 games last season, in Sports Writer starters, sophomore Angela which she caught ten would-be­Bessolo and Battersby to pick base-stealers and picked off 11 
Losing a core of seniors led by up where they left off last sea­baserunners. a two-time All-American pitch­son to lead the Irish pitching "Kristina brings great inten­er could loom like an ominous staff. Bessolo garnered 1996 sity every time she is behind the 
cloud over the future of a soft­Big East co-rookie of the year plate," said Miller. ball team. Unless, of course, honors after a 19-8 campaign, Look for Korrie Allen to con­you're Notre Dame, who including a 1.46 ERA and five tinue her trademark defense returns one of the strongest shutouts. Battersby, a 1996 behind the plate, along with senior classes in school history second-team all-Big East selec­clutch offensive performances. for the 1997 season. tion, was a flawless 5-0 against Allen sparked the offense as a 
Headlined by 1996 Big East conference competition and a pinch-hitter in 1996 connecting player of the year, Meghan career-best .643 winning per­for 8 RBis on 15 hits. Murray, the senior class seeks centage on the season. Junior Freshman Tara King could also to provide leadership and expe­right-hander Kelly Nichols see action at catcher this rience for the Irish. Co-captain rounds out a talented staff with spring. Katie Marten. Notre Dame's ca­pinpoint control. Nichols led Behind the talented battery reer stolen bases leader, Joy the NCAA in saves the past two mates, Notre Dame returns the Battersby, a hard throwing seasons and needs four more entire infield, anchored by co­right-handed hurler, Liz saves to become the NCAA all­captain Meghan Murray at Perkins, a strong-armed versa­time saves leader. Her control shortstop. The senior became tile athlete, and Kara wreaked havoc on Big East op­the first Notre Dame softball McMahon. a 1996 first-team ponents in 1996, holding con­player to hit over .400 in a sea­all-Big East selection have their ference foes to a .068 batting son when she batted .402 in sights set on a fourth straight average and not allowing any 1996. Murray, last season's 
NCAA tournament appearance runs. team leader in batting, hits, and a Big East title. On the receiving end of Notre RBI, triples and home runs, 
"There is no question the ex­Dame's stellar pitching staff, looks to power the Irish offense perience of knowing how to win sophomore Kristina McCleary once again. game after game is going to be and junior Korrie Allen look to Third-baseman Kara a valuable asset to our·team provide leadership behind the McMahon guards the hot cor­this year," said Irish head plate. McCleary's solid play ner with a strong arm that coach Liz Miller. earned her a starting position places her fifth on the all-time 
Notre Dame assist list with 233. Junior Kelly Rowe started 23 of the last 24 games of 1996 at first base, posting a . 970 field­
ing percentage. Sophomore Giampaolo come back to left will also see time in the out­Dawn Cunningham played 59 field and center field, respec­field, although her strength is games at second base last sea­tively. Perkins provides offen­mainly as the designated hitter. 
son, starting in 53, and display­sive power, bringing 33 career Coach Miller will rely on the ing her fleet feet with nine doubles to an already solid entire team to fill the voids left stolen bases in nine attempts. tearn. Her 15 assists last sea­by the class of 1996, but offense "Dawn is one of our quickest son prove her ability to cover plays a particularly importantplayers and it shows when she the left side of the outfield. role as a key to success for the -..J 
is on the bases," said coach Giampaolo's speed in center 1997 campaign. . 1 Miller. translated to success in 1996, "With our team balance and I Sophomore Amy Laboe and as Jennifer received first-team contributions from every player 
I

freshman Lisa Tully should also all-Big East accolades. Her ag­on the team, we are looking to 
I

see time in the infield for the gressive offensive play con­score more runs this year," said 
I

Irish this spring. Both bring tributed to a .387 average and Miller. ·jversatility and intensity to the 82 hits.• both second on the The Big East pre-season 
I

lineup. team last season. South Division leaders take to 
Familiar faces anchor the 
Junior Joanna Zuhoski and the road this weekend for the outfield again this season, as freshman Sarah Mathison wiH Arizona State Tournament. 
l 

Liz Perkins and junior Jennifer fight for the starting job in right They face Wisconsin and host field, a void left by Academic Arizona State today and All-American Jenna Knudson. square-off against Indiana and Zuhoski's speed helped the Iowa on Saturday. The tough team in 1996, as a pinch run­competition here will set the ner with 15 runs scored and table for a 1997 season full of
Ill 
nine stolen bases. Katie Marten expectations. 
:::c 
1­

J~J, ........,....~ at · 
lffor the 1997-98 year. You may pjck up Student Activities, 315 

$3.00 discount for students and faculty with valid ND ID at Joyce Center Box Office only. 

page 20 The Observer • SPORTS Friday, February 21, 1996 
• BENGAL BOUTS 

' ~ 
Dillon 

Richard Thomas 
Stefan "The Hatchet Man" Stephan 'Tone" Locher 
Roger "The Storming Mormon" Gorman Matt "MOJO" Berilla ~·;~b 
175 
Ted "The Bear" Lefere Andrew "Big Cat" Riederer 
ve" Bundschuh er Any" Dowd\ 
an Bomber" Harkins lian Bruiser" Herbert 

John 'The Bomb" Barsic Cqris "Maverick' Craytor
Jt::hl: . . Felipe ciilndo Er ReynosO?
Chris imzanianDevil Conoscenti 
Arcola" Mori~~~!!;jj1 

Justyn "The Pudgy Pugilist" Harki (Bye) 
Newcomers will get their shots in 

Bouts 
continued from page 24 
Gaffney's main competition looks to come from returning finalist Mike DiBiase. 
"DiBiase is a great all-around fighter," said Butz. "He's got some of the best technique in the club." 
"Everybody in that weight class is tough," said Butz. "It's maybe the most stacked class." 
The same cannot be said, at least right now, about the 190­pound class. 
Basically, it's two-time cham­pion Mike Mantey and every­body else. 
"There's a lot of guys who don't have much experience," Mantey said. ''I'm not sure, but I don't know if any of them competed last year." 
There are a few things that worry Mantey, though. 
"They are young, so you never know. Plus, there·are a few lefties and that can throw you off." 
Much the same can be said of the 200-pound weight class, where there is one known­quantity, Phillips, and a bunch of newcomers. 
"The new guys have improved a lot so it's a pretty good class," Phillips said. 
Much of that improvement comes from the help of Phillips. 
"He's just tough," Butz said of Phillips. "Plus, he's a great guy. He's always helping." 
Butz may be Phillips' biggest challenge. 
"One guy that I have noticed is Dave Butz," said Mantey. ''I've sparred with him and he can hit." 
Though the experience isn't quite there in many of the heavier classes, the numbers are. And that is important. 
"The coach (Tom Sudded} was really excited because we have a number of guys at 200," Butz noted. "In the past, they haven't had too many big guys." 
"It's all like a cycle," Mantey added. "Right now, a lot of guys are young, but if they stick with it, then they'll be experienced down the road. I just hope they enjoy their experience." 
Someone is bound to enjoy his experience in the heavy­weight division. JLast year, the champion (Tim Regan} won the title without having to fight (bye, forfeit}. but this year, there are four contestants bat­tling to take home the title. 
"No one really knows a whole lot-about these guys," Phillips said. "We'll find out Sunday." 

By KATHLEEN LOPEZ 
Sports Writer 
With the large majority of newcomers to the Bouts, learn­ing has been the major empha­sis in these weeks leading up to · the actual tournament. 
Some newcomers have risen to be possible contenders in their respective divisions, such as junior Josh Akers. Akers has been a real surprise in the 170-pound division. 
"If you are looking for a new­comer, Josh Akers is tough," said defending 170-pound champion, senior Pat Maciariello. 
"He is very muscular, he hits hard and he is a left-handed boxer. And being a left-handed boxer can be an advantage." 
Maciariello is the favored in his weight class, and he earned himself a bye in the first round. Junior Norm Beznoska and senior Seth Roy also will be forces to reckon with. 
Roy made it all the way to the finals in last year's bouts, but fell to John Christoforetti in the finals of the 165-pound divi­sion. 
"The two guys that are tough in this weight class are Seth Roy and Norm Beznoska," said Maciariello. "Those are the most experienced guys in this weight class." 
"This is one of the toughest brackets that we have got just looking at the people," said Beznoska. "The top four seeds are all really good. Pat Maciariello is the defending champ, and he is definitely one of the best out there. Seth Roy • is real good. He is a power puncher, and he has good skills." 
"The No. 4 seed Josh Akers, is a first year kid, but he is re­ally tough. He should do really well this year. Charlie Vorae is a freshman, but he should do 

real good.  I think that he might  
surprise  some  people  this  
year."  

When it comes to experience, a majority of the boxers will agree that Christoforetti has the most experience of all. 
He has to be the favorite in the 165-pound division. He captured the 165 title last year and looks to repeat. 
"I know that by just having John (Christoforetti) in the bracket makes it a very tough bracket," said junior captain Ryan Rans. 
"Obviously just the level of intensity that he brings to a fight, is just more than most guys have. Also he brings in experience, which is key in a fight." 

Although, there are several who are looking to give Christoforetti quite a challenge, including one of his fellow cap­tains, Rans. Rans got the No. 2 seed and is set to face another contender, senior Keith DeBickes. 
"Obviously the No. 2 seed, Ryan Rans is the big talk in this (bracket} because we are great friends," said Christoforetti. "He is an awesome junior cap­tain, and so hopefully if we both do well all the way through, that's what we are both looking at. 
"Both Keith DeBickes and Ben Rost are first year guys. They both have been here ev­ery day and have been working very hard. The major chat­lenge in the bracket for me would be having to fight Ryan (Rans} because he is such a good friend." 
The 175-pound weight class looks to be stacked with talent also. Chris Dobramski charac­terizes this specific weight class as quick yet strong. 
Junior Bryan Harkins is first year fighter, but he looks to be another solid athfete. 
Senior Matt Dowd is looking to repeat his finals appearance. Last year he made it all the way but failed to seize the champi­onship. 

The Observer/Mike Ruma 
Senior John Kametz goes through one last practice before he will step in the ring for real when this Sunday rolls around. 

Friday, February 21, 1996 The Observer • SPORTS page 21 
·~ 

• BENGAL BOUTS 
Students drop books in exchange for gloves 
take on Ramarge in the top

By MIKE DAY Assisranr Spores Ediror bracket of the quarterfinals. "Even though I lack experi­When the first punch is ence, my determination will thrown Sunday to officially make up for it," said Ramarge. open up the 67th year of · "My conditioning has helped 
Bengal Bouts, students will me a lot, and I've been deter­have the opportunity to view mined to work as hard as I their classmates as they've could to make up for my lack of 
never seen them before. experience." Right before their eyes, nor­Pagano, the runner-up last 
mally reserved, mild mannered year in the 140 pound division, students will be transformed will encounter Buccellato, into a group of aggressive, yet while Cranley will face disciplined fighters, slugging it Johnson. out with one another for three "He (Johnson) is a southpaw, 
heart-stopping rounds. so that makes it a bigger chal­For more than six weeks, the lenge," said Cranley. "Lefties boxers have been building up are difficult because their 
to Sunday a day when hopes power punch comes at you in a and dreams will be put on the different way." line in front of classmates, fac­''I'll just have to stay within 
ulty and fans. myself and fight my type of 
And as is the case with the fight." 145-pound class. there will be In the 135-pound class .. junior plenty of faces that they haven't Lucas Mollina, sophomore Tom 
seen before. Will and junior Sean Sharpe Out of a group of eight box­fought in last year's bouts. ers, only junior Fred Kelly, But like the 145-pound divi­
sophomore Thomas Cranley sion, there are five new com­and senior Ted Pagano have petitors this year. experienced the Bengal Bouts Will, the defending 130­
tradition. pound champion and early 
Freshman Brendan Walsh, favorite, is slated to fight fresh­senior Mathew Ramarge, fresh­man John Froman. man Brian Daigle, junior Dicky Sharpe, a semifinalist a year 
Johnson and sophomore Kevin ago, will encounter senior Pete Buccellato will be competing Meyer in the top half of the for the first time. 
bracket. 

Kelly, the defending champi­"He's (Sharpe) a little taller on of the 145-pound class, will than me, probably about three face Walsh, while Daigle will or four inches," said Meyer. 
"He's definitely got some reach on me. I should be a little 
The University of Notre Dame Department of Music

·)) 
quicker inside." presents 
• Two S·week sessions In the battle of newcomers,
,-\~,_, 
• More than 75 quality sophomore David Murphy will education courses knock gloves with freshman
The Notre Dame 

!) 
• French Immersion 3·week Michael Maguire, and Molina
. ) 1_, 

Program will face sophomore Dominic
-· 
String Trio 

• College Preview High School Fahey to round out the division. 
Program Molina, who competed last

l 
playing works by 

• Pont-Aven Art Program year in the 155-pound class, Franz Schubert, Bohuslav Martinu 
has trimmed down consider­ably and is expected to chal­
For information: 

The American University of Paris
and Irving Fine 
lenge Will for the title in the

Summer Programs, Box S-4 
competitive division. 

60 East 42nd St., Suite 1463
7:30pm Friday, February 21 
"I've done a lot of running

New York, New York 1 0 165
20th Century Gallery, Snite Museum of Art 
and bag work to build my

J 
Tel. (212) 983-1414 
endurance," said Mollina. 

Fax (212) 983-0444
Free admission; limited seating. 

"I think my endurance and ! Please call631-6201 to reserve your seats in advance. 
Web site ·http://www.aup.fr experience should be a big fac­Accredited by the Middle States Associanon tor."
Email · Summer@aup.fr With junior Matt Peacock, sophomores David Seerveld, Chris Owens, and Brian Dillon as the only four in the 125­pound class, the group will not fight until Wednesday's semifi­nals. 
271-11 77 St. Mary's (North Village Mall) 
Papa John's and HPC is sponsoring an All Campus Contest 2 71-PAPA 
,---_____F_e_b_ru_a__{__1_4_t_h_ru_M_a_rc_h_31___

___,r-----, r-----,
This weeks winners are... 1 ~:;~ Munchie 1 1 Late , . 1 I s I I I
•Top S leaders will be post­ed every Friday in The 
I ..·. .·· I I I
Observer 
• The dorm which purchases I $ +tax II I 
Buy 4 sessions at the regular

the most Papa john 's items L-----.JL_____ .J 
price & get 2 FREE! 

between Feb. 14 
Buy 5 & get 3 FREE .. .

.--......a.-.rr-----,r-----,
& March 31 will receive free 
Buy 6 &get 4 FREE .. .

I Lenten .•. ial I I I
pizza for their dorm's dance, 
HOurs: 

I I I I
plus SSOO for the dorm to 
Mon thru Thurs: 1 1 a.m.-1 a.m. 

spend at their discretion 
I I I I
Fri thru Sat: 1 1 a.m.-3 a.m 

•See Hall President for 
Sunday: 12 p.m.-1a.m. 

I I I I
details 

1 
1 
I 
I 
j 
l 
' 1 J 
1 


page 22  The Observer • SPORTS  Friday, February 21, 1996  
• FOOTBALl  • SWIMMING  
Dream quickly turns to reality  Swimmers make- 

I . 
By TIM SHERMAN 
Sports Editor 
Becoming the head coach at 
Notre Dame has to be a dream 
for many football coaches, no 
matter what the level. After 15 
years in coaching Bob Davie 
has achieved that dream. 
Now, the nightmare starts. 
"You don't feel pressure (as 
the head coach)," Davie said. 
"You feel obligation. You sense 
and realize how many people 
are affected by Notre Dame 
football. You feel an obligation 
to do the right things. I felt that 
as assistant but being the head 
coach you feel the obligation to 
make decision. Someone told 
me a long time ago, it's easy to 
make suggestions, it's hard to 
make decision." 
Well, Davie is fast getting 
accustomed playing the role of 
decision-maker but that doesn't 
mean he's totally settled into 
much of a comfort zone. 
"To be honest, you have to 
have some success (as a head 
coach) before you truly feel 
comfortable," said Davie. ''I'm 
totally comfortable in my abili­
ties, but let's face it, you're 
judged on what happens next 
fall. The real evaluation lies 
ahead. The long-range is to 
build a foundation, but first you 
have to win some games." 
While September 5th is the date circled on everybody's cal­endar for the winning to begin the preparation has already begun. Currently, the squad is well into the annual winter con­.ditioning program and Davie 
has already left his mark. 
"We're focusing on more 
speed drills this winter," Davie 
said. "In the past, we've done a 
lot of agility drills but now 
we're working on speed, trying 
to improve 40 (yard dash) 
times. Also, we're doing a lot of 
the type of drills they do in the 
NFL combines. We're calling 
them "combine drills." 
There will also be some vari­
ations come spring practices. 
"We'll probably hit a lot less," 
Davie explained. "It will be 
almost all teaching. We're 
going to really try and teach a 

lot of schemes and game a. 
We're going to teach third­
downs, goal-line, and situations 
like milking the clock at the end 
of the game." 

There is one more change 
that will surely make people 
take notice. "The quarterback 
will wear a red shirt," Davie 
revealed. 

Ron Powlus surely doesn't 
need the extra media attention 
that is bound to come with the 
red shirt, but he's going to be 
the one to get it. 

"I think it is the case that Ron 
is No. 1," Davie confirmed. 
"Ron ended the season last year 
as the number one quarterback 
and I everywhere I've ever 
been, the guy that ended up the 
prior season as the starting 
quarterback came back the 
next season as the No. 1 quar­
terback. " 

When it comes to other per­
sonnel, though, there will be 
handful of possible changes. 

"Brad Williams is going to 
play nose guard," Davie said. 
"After talking about it with 
Coach Mattison and knowing 
what we need and knowing 
Brad, his best position is nose 
guard." 

Other possible candidates for 
position changes mentioned by 
Davie were Joey Goodspeed 
and Mike Gandy. Goodspeed 
could possibly move to a line­
bac;;ker position, while Gandy, 
recruited as a tight end, may 
shift over to defensive end. 

"You can only make changes 
if the players want to make 
changes," Davie stressed. 

One player who will be stay­
ing still is freshman safety Deke 
Cooper. 

"He's getting bigger and 
stronger and looks good in the 
weight room," Davie observed. 
That's good news for Irish fans, as is the assertion Davie ·made regarding transfers. 
"There's not going to be any 
transfers," Davie stated. 
"Everyone is solid. Now, you 
can't get inside everyone's 
head. But everyone is excited 
about opportunity. Change 
leads to opportunities. " · 
Williams, along with Jarious 
Jackson, was the subject of much talk regarding a transfer. 
''I've addressed it with each one," said Davie. "Just the situ­ation with people assuming things with Ron Powlus back. Just the situation itself, people think there is something there. And with Brad Williams, its totally false. I don't know where that s coming from. I think somewhere from the West coast. I'm not saying a player will never transfer, but there are no red flags on everyone." 
Transfer talk is one area where the intense scrutiny sur­rounding Notre Dame football is quite apparent. Davie is fast realizing that he is the focal point of it all and everyone wants to hear what he has to say. 
"That all comes with the job," Davie conceded. "I've spoken to the Alumni Club in Chicago and to the Monogram Club. I have things like that all throughout the month." 
And if Davie follows the hectic speaking tour predecessor Lou Holtz followed it's only going to get worse. But that may not be a safe assumption. 
''I'm going to sit down and think all that through," said Davie regarding extensive weekly engagements such as Quarterback Club luncheons and the pep rallies. 
"They'll all continue but I may not play as strong of a role on a weekly basis. I'm going to think th it and see what I'm most comfortable doing. My focus is going to be on the players and day to day things. Everyorrtl is different." 
"So far, I've accepted very few speaking engagement. It's been one step at a time. The important thing is building a foundation, so I've been slow to do things outside of football." 
How long he can maintain such an outlook is the question. 
"The challenge is the time management. If you come into the office without a specific plan, you can get sidetracked so 
easily."  ·  
The  nightmare  has  just  
begun.  


splash at Big East 
Special to The Observer fourth with her NCAA consid­
eration time of 4:54.59 while 
Notre Dame's women's swim­freshman Allison Hollis placedming and diving team stands in 14th in 5:03.33. In the 200 in­second place and the men in dividual medley, Notre Dame's seventh after the second day of Molly Beeler, Liz Barger and action at the Big East swim­Anne Iacobucci placed sixth, ming and diving champi­seventh and eight while onships. Competition resumes Shannon Suddarth was 13th. Friday at the Werblin Another school record fell in Recreation Center at Rutgers the 50 freestyle as CourtneyUniversity and continued South swam 23.93 to break the through Saturday February 22. 24-hour old record of 23.97 set Miami leads the women's com­by Laura Shepard on petition with 284 points, with Wednesday in the 200 freestyle Notre Dame second with 244 relay. Shepard took seventh in 
points, and Villanova third with th~ 50 freestyle in 24.18. 
213. Pittsburgh leads the The Irish continued their men's division with 244 points relay success they had on while Syracuse has 226. The Wednesday with first and sec­seventh-place Irish have 11. ond-place finishes as they were Notre Dame's women's swim­second once again this time on 
ming and diving team had two Thursday in the 400 medleyswimmers post NCAA con­relay. The team of Erin sideration times in the 500 Brooks, Brittany Kline, Liz freestyle as junior Linda Gallo Barger and Courtney South set a new school record as she posted and NCAA consideration 
took second in 4:51.51. time of 3:47.25, another school Freshman Alison Newell was record. 
Dante's Peak PG13 11:00* 1:45 4:45 7:45 10:10 Fools Rush In PG13 11:45* 2:30 5:00 7:45 10:10 
1:45' 4:30 7:15 10:00 
Absolute Power R 
2:00* 4:45 7:30 10:10 
1:00, 1:45, 4:30, 7:15, 10:00  
DANGEROUS GROUND (R) 2:30, 445, 7:oo. 9:15 IN LOVE ANO WAR (PG-13)1:55, 4:45, 7:30,10:15 SHINE (PG-13) 1:10,3:35,5:50,8:10,10:25  
STAR WARS: ANEW HOPE (PG) *in OTS 11:30,2:15, 5:00,7:45,10:30  
SW: THE EMPIRE STRIKES BACK (PG) * in OTS 12:00, 2:45, 5:30, 8:15  
ROSEWOOD (R)* 12:15, 3:15, 6:45, 9:45  
METRO (R) 1:20, 4:00, 7:30, 10:20  
BEAUTICIAN ANO THE BEAST (PG) 2:30, 5:10 BEVERLY HILLS NINJA (PG-13) 7:25, 9:25 HE ENGLISH PATIENT (R)1:00, 4:30, 8:00 Times valid through next Thursday *No passes  

Expen'ence the natural serenity qf North Shore Club, just minutesJrom Notre Dame. 
• 
A wise investment for alumni, faculty and parents 

• 
Townhomes and condominiums from $84,990 

• 
Waterfront views • Exterior maintenance provided 


Come visit us at ~:~~<;-~ 
North Shore Club ~;,~; 
Angela at the St. joseph River • South Bend 
Furnished Models Open Daily 
Sat. & Sun. 12-5 p.m. • Mon.-Fri. 10 a.m.-6 p.m. 


Friday, February 21, 1996 
CREAM O'THE VALLEY ROAD 
MOTHER GOOSE & GRIMM 


DILBERT 
'100'R.E ACCUSEO OF 5TtALtNG A COMPUTER. WE'LL 
P..EDUCE THE CHI\"GE. iO ''LEWD CONDUCT W!iH 
APPLti\NCE~'' 1F 't'OU'LL PI.EAD GU!LTY. 
) 
CROSSWORD 
1 Where NaCI is 36 Vote in Quebeccollected 37 "Life of Christ"a First name in painterGerman politics 38 Diana of "The 
14 Noted Ojibwa of Avengers"
fiction 
39 46-Across, e.g. 1&1955 title 
41 Senior member heroine 
42 Abbey Theater 11 Classic name adventurer 
44 Brigitte is one 18 Fan 45About 19Where the 46 Four-time 
Mikado once Emmy-winning lived series 
47 Elimination game "Fudge!" 49 Detectives' info, possibly 
20 Relative of 
22 "Show Boat" 51 Health grp.
composer 52 "Heartbreak
23 Focal point House" writer 
25 Politico Bella 
55 Transportation27 Overly strict 
Secretary. 31 Kind of buddy beginning 1993 

e 
& 
i .Ill ! 
I § 

The Observer • TODAY page 23 
ED LEADER YOUR HOROSCOPE 
HAI'I'Y BIRTHOAY! 11'1< THI' 
NEXT YEAR OF YOUR LIFE: Your creativity or artistry could make you a fortune! Pursue a romantic interest that develops this coming spring. A financial windfall IS likely if you reinvest business profits. Do something that has never occurred to your competitors. If you see a leadership vacuum next fall, fill the void. A salary increase or bonus will make Christmas especial­ly merry. Plan to travel early in 1998. Promotional activities will require your special touch. 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: actress Tyne Daly, jazz singer Nina Simone, baseball player Alan Trammel, beloved humorist Erma Bombeck. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Beware of get-rich-quick schemes. Someone who is envious of your success may want to take over your contacts and resources. Keep your mvcstment strategies to yourself. 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): If hoping to win the heart of a sensi­tive individual, keep your more aggressive impulses in check. Your charm convinces someone to say "yes" to an important question. 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): An employment offer features an ele­ment of risk. Investigate a company thoroughly before agreeing to climb on board. Higher-ups will be impressed when you meet a difficult deadline. 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): A 
SCOTT ADAMS 
domestic project may be more com­plicated than anticipated. An impor­tant lesson learned in the past can be 
applied to the present. An old school chum has good news to share. 

WOOL.D 't'OU 
Tlo\IIIT SOUN05 FAIR.. LIKE. A 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Your excellent instincts will help you get a real estate venture off the ground. 

PE.OPLt Will UNOE.~­MINUTt 
STANO IT'5 J"U5T A 
Pooling resources with an ally lets

ALONE. WIT11 
PLEA. 5AI\GAIN. 

''1"\R., COFFE.E"? 
57 Wouldn't hurt 
&1 He coined the phrase "Harmony in discord" 
&3 Holdings 
&5 Compliant one 
&& Lifting device 
67 Eighty-sixes 
68 Defrauded 
DOWN 
1 Common quotation 
JEANE DIXON 
you leather yuur ne't. Nctwor~mg 
leads to valuable business connec­
tions. 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Put a financial plan into motion without delay. Influential people will be astounded by your business acumen. Your intuition guides you to a once­in-a-lifetime opportunity. 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Make certain all financial details arc worked out to your satisfaction. Spending quality time with your loved one draws you closer together. Keep a low profile if you attend a social function tonight. 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21 J: Teamwork will boost productivity and profits. Be diplomatic with those you need to win over. A co­worker's support will ease any doubts. Get out and socialize this weekend. 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dcc. 21 ): Put your best ideas or products on display today. You have some­thing that no one else can offer. Take a chance on romance. Less coura­geous types are awed by your dar­
mg. 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): A new pairing looks promising. Give it your all, even if you must reschedule important appointments. An encounter with a stranger could leave you with certain questions. 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Your legion of fans continues to grow. Take a business trip. Your superb conversational skills will help you drum up business. You and an ally see eye-to-eye. 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): A renovation project will soon be com­pleted. Look around for other areas where improvement is needed. Putting your energy into a physical fitness program will produce de­lightful results. 
2 Unsubstantial 3 Italian body of water 4 With 10-and 15-Down, a Fellini quote 5 Prove to be successful 6 Suffix with senor 
Wanted: Reporters,
1 None-too­
-
• 
... 
1 1 
~l 
gentle landing a Frequency unit 9 Jeff Lynne's 
rock grp. 10 See 4-Down 11 Wee parasite 12 Client 13 Cousin of a gull 15 See 4-Down 21 Epitome of 
simplicity 24 Exchange 26 Where: Lat. 27 Utterance 28 Mohawk River 
city 29 Splendid 30 Easter start 32 Office assistant 33 Japan's -­


Bay 34 "Terrace at Le Havre," e.g. 
37 Kind of radiation 40 Hardly old-fashioned 43 Farm animal 
47 Schoenberg's "--to Napoleon" 


48 "Melrose Place" 58 Some soil role 59 Start or 50 Impersonators Massachusetts' 
photographers and

52 Worn out motto 
53 Wanderer 60 Made a tax 54 "Iliad" figure valuation: Abbr. 56 Sacred bull of 62 Medium grade 
editors. 

Egyptian myth 64 Forbes rival 
Answers to any three clues in this puzzle 
Join The Observer 

are available by touch-tone phone: 
1-900-420-5656 (75¢ per minute). Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 
staff.

50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 

.. 


-
.. 
-~ 
.. 
I • 
: 
• 
SPORTS Weekend 
page 24 Friday, Februa1y 21, 1996 
• WOMEN's BASKETBALL • BENGAL BOUTS 

Stellar seniors make last stand 
ByJOECAVATO Sports Writer 
Tomorrow night the Notre Dame women's basketball team will take to the Joyce Center floor for the last time this season. At the end of the contest with the Seton Hall Pirates, four of those dressed in Blue and Gold will walk off and leave the Joyce Center court behind them for the last time, and they will also leave behind a legacy. 
"They (the seniors) have brought in the talent and the work ethic to raise the sta­tus of the progtam and really help us compete nationally," head coach Muffet McGraw said. 
Before the Class of 1997 stepped on campus, the Notre Dame women's basket­ball program was a solid program in the Midwestern Collegiate Conference. Since their freshman orientation, the women's basketball team has compiled an 89-30 mark. McGraw has seen the program burst onto the national scene and come to dominate the Big East conference with the Connecticut Huskies. 
The Observer/Mike Ruma

"When we came in here four years ago, 
Senior Troy Phillips eyes a second straight Bengal Bouts title. The

we all hoped to raise the status of the pro­
long road back begins this Sunday.

gram and had those expectations," Beth Morgan said. "Over those years, I think we have done that and its very exciting for 
It's time for the main 

us." The senior starters, Beth Morgan, Katryna Gaither, Rosanne Bohman and 
event, Bengal Bouts 

Jeannine Augustin along with Adrienne The Observer/Rob Finch Jordan will be remembered in the history 
By TIM SHERMAN
Katryna Gaither, second on Notre Dame's all-time point list, 
Spans Editor

will roam the paint at the Joyce one last time tomorrow. see SENIORS I page 15 
• MEN'S BASKETBAll Crowds will flock to the Joyce Center Sunday afternoon at 1 
p.m. primarily with two things in mind. 
First, they will be supporting the great cause of the Bengal missions in India. ·

Finally, it's time for Miller 
In addition, they will go hoping to see one thing, knockouts. By DAVE TREACY It is a safe bet that the missions will receive what they want, Associate Spans Editor but don't be so sure that the knockout hungry fans will get a lot 
of what they want. 

Pete Miller was helped off the "The crowd wants to see people going toe-to-toe but your best floor in the recent home game chance of winning is staying back and thinking and being against West Virginia after patient and using your jab," said 200-pound Bouter Dave Butz. catching an elbow to the head "A lot of people' like to watch the bigger guys fight becauS(l and getting a slight concussion. one lucky punch can end the fight," sophomore Butz said. "The As he made his way to the lock­coaches tell us to throw 80 percent jabs, especially for us first­er room, he received a standing year guys. They say box, don't fight." ovation from the crowd for his But if there's one pugilist who may have a bit of trouble efforts. Unfortunately, the listening to that advice it's 1996 185-pound champion Brian 
banged-up Miller didn't realize Gaffney. what was going on and doesn't One of the two favorites in this year's 180-pound division, remember being noticed. Gaffney made a name for himself last year as a true free It's funny how that works. swinger. 
For three years, Pete Miller It was effective but he's attempting to become a more com­really wasn't recognized for his plete fighter. contribution to the Irish pro­"He's worked on moving a little more and his defense," ob­
gram. And when the applause served returning champion Troy Philips, who has sparred with finally came, he was barely Gaffney. "But you never know, that may all go out the window conscious enough to get off the once he gets in there and gets hit." 
court under his own power, let alone appreciate the tribute. see BOUTS I page 20 
But for Miller, the tribute isn't what's important. He doesn't care about applause or 
7th Annu 
accolades. He cares about whether or not the team wins. Notre Dame beat West Virginia 90-76. 
Notre 
"Pete Miller believes in the 
~~;ij
team," agreed head coach John MacLeod. "He's willing to put the team first, before his own statistics and before everything else. He's smart enough to know that if the team wins, 
Bengal Bouts 

then everything else follows, including individual attention." Quarter Finals Semi-Finals There are quite a few strange 
Sunday, Feb 23 1:OOpm Wednesday, Feb 26 7:30pm

twists to Miller's saga at Notre Dame. He was not recruited to Finals
The Observer/Rob Finch 
Senior guard Pete Miller (center) has seen his share of ups and downs Saturday, Mar 1 8:00pm see MILLER I page 14 but has earned a starting role on this year's squad. _, .b IObserM 





vs. Providence, Tomorrow, 4 p.m. 
vs Seton Hall, Tomorrow, 7:30p.m. 
vs, Western Michigan, Today, 7 p.m. 

Men's and Women's 
•Part two of Davie series 

Tennis at National Indoor Team Championships, 
see page 22 

February 21-23 
• 
•Complete Bengal Bouts coverage 
X 
at Northwestern Meet, see pages 20-21 Tomorrow 









