~~~~--~--~--~~~-.~------------------------~..~~--~-----.--~~~--------------------------~---------.-----------~------~·-------. 

Wednesday, October 15 , 1997 • Vol. XXXI No. 38 THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Stanford apologizes to ND for band performance 
By HEATHER COCKS News Editor 
Stanford University issued a formal apology to Notre Dame 
ter than toinsult.others'

for the content of its marching band's pre-game and halftime religion and heritage.' shows, performed at the Oct. 4 football game, University 
Gerhard Casper

President Father Edward Malloy 
president ofStanford

said yesterday. During the program that University 
sparked the controversy, Irish people were referred to as The marching band has since "stinking drunks," while the been prohibited from playing in 
band parodied the Irish potato their home arena when Notre famine and staged a debate Dame travels to Stanford in between the devil and a Catholic November 1999. according to "Cardinal." Stanford athletic director Ted 
"Our students should know Leland. better than to insult others' reli­Malloy accepted the apology gion and heritage," Stanford and lauded its condemnation of University President Gerhard the racial, ethnic and anti­Casper wrote Monday to Malloy. Catholic slurs included in the "The band's purported satire shows; in addition, he expressed 
was uncivil and improper." see STANFORD I page 4 
By SARAH HANSEN the greatest impact on their site in the News Writer smallest amount of time. Students involved in the Washington 
Early Sunday morning, 203 Notre Seminar expect to learn about environ­Dame students will board over 20 mental concerns in the District of buses en route to earning one credit in Columbia. The 24 participants plan to the most experiential and service­meet with governmental ·and religious based educational ·opportunity offered agencies in an effort to gain a deeper bv Notre Dame. understanding of the various points of 
·Three fall service projects are offered view regarding the environment. by the University this year, each one George lloward, author of a recently allowing students to visit Appalachia, released book on Ecological Washington, D.C., and Chicago for a Psychology, spoke to the group as part hands-on education in serving others. of the orientation session, offering one 
This year 165 students will partake of the many views of the environment in the Appalachia Seminar, visiting 16 they hope to eneounter over the week. total sites. Upon their return to campus, the 
Within the program, students are participants of the Washington given the opporttinity to learn about Seminar will meet with campus envi­the environmental issues within the ronmental groups for collaborative dis­region, while pre-med students focus cussion and planning. on rural health care. Fourteen Notre Dame students will 
At manv sites, Notre Dame alumni witness diversity through work with will acc(;mpany students over the the Urban Life Center in Chicago as Two artists, Susan Bradt and Charles Johnson, will be bringing their work to Saint Mary'sbreak. The students and alumni plan to 
Moreau Gallery. See article on page 3.
work side by side in an e!Tort to make see SERVICE/ page 4 
LONI grant helps recruit Latinas, small town residents 
By MELANIE GARMAN 
oriented decisions. Assistant Saint Mary's News Editor "We worked with students on issues and ways to exercise 
Increasing the number of leadership, college placement, Indiana students attending col­self-esteem and ways to meet lege, especially Saint Mary's, is the physical challenges needed the goal of the newly founded to succeed," said Patrick White, Leaders of a New Indiana (LONI) associate dean of faculty, who program. early in the high schools, it served as co-director of the 
The program, which is sup­would allow these students to academy this summer with ported by the Lilly Endowment, have a chance to visit Saint Georgeanna Rosenbush. supports the leadership develop­Mary's knowing that there is "We emphasized collaborative ment and education of both additional help offered to them leadership which is needed in Latina students and students through the LON! program," the real world," White added. from communities smaller than said Mary Pat Nolan, director of The second phase of the pro­25,000 people in the state of admission. gram offers a $3,500 grant to Indiana. Beginning in their sophomore, those students who demonstrate 
Each of the 18 private colleges junior and senior years of high financial need after admission to 
which are participating in the school, students eligible for the Saint Mary's. Students are still LON! program were given a LON! program are invited to the eligible to b~ a participant in the variety of options on the focus of summer Leadership and LON! project and any of its pro­their individual programs. Saint Community Development grams, even if they do not quali­Mary's decided to cover the Academy, which is staffed on fy for the LON! grant. entire spectrum from pre-col­campus by Saint Mary's faculty, In its first year, Saint Mary's 
lege to post-college, setting up administration, and students. gave out 33 grants to students events to entice high school stu­During this week, students expe­who qualified and the college dents to attend Saint Mary's, as rience intense leadership chal­hopes to double that number by well as continuing on in their lenges that will benefit them not next year. career in the state of Indiana. only in the present, but in their 
"We decided that by starting future educational and career-
see LONI I page 4 







. ---------­

---~-~-· 
page 2 
• INSIDE COLUMN 
Don't Volunteer 

Well, fall has arrived, hell week is almost 
Nora Meany 

Saint Mary's Accent Editor are beginning to settle into life here in South Bend with welcome relief. The worst is over. Maybe a few of us even have some free time on our hands..... So what, pray tell, do we do to fill the void of excess time? Watch T.V.? Go out and have fun? Study? Well, I can tell you one thing that you SHOULD NOT do under ANY CIRCUM­STANCE. Volunteer. You heard me, don't volunteer. I cannot think of a more deplorable waste of time for anyone than a day of volunteering. How pointless can that be? You, a successful Sir or Ma'am of the Notre Dame Community, giving your time so that some random stranger who probably deserves whatever economic strife that was encountered, can have his or her hardships worked out for free. You need to work on your resume! In a word, internships. After all, I think I speak for everybody when I say that I didn't get into college by helping little old women across the street. The underprivileged cannot get you a job after you graduate. Why bother making connections that you will never be able to use in the workforce? Your time is valuable. You need to study. You need to socialize. You need to spend hours camped out on your Goodwill couch watching 90210 reruns. What you don't need to do is waste time commuting back and forth from a thankless volunteering job for which you receive neither compensation nor a resume accreditation. Case in point: Future doctors and lawyers, you will be charging $250 an hour for your services in a few years. Why give it away for free now? You, Notre Dame Community, are worth much more than that. You are SO SPE­CIAL that you do not need to volunteer. Ever. The underprivileged depress me, anyway. Why would I want to be around people who have nothing? How could that possibly pre­pare me for the hardships that I will face in life? You, Notre Dame Community, will never be homeless. I know I never will. In fact, nobody with a college degree has ever, in the history of the world, been homeless. Trust me on this. I just can't relate. Besides, there are hardly any opportunities to volunteer in South Bend. Why, aside from SURV, Campus Ministry, Center for Social Concerns, Christmas in April, Hope Mission, South Bend Center for the Homeless, Appalachia Seminar, Urban Plunge and vari­ous other dorm projects and private funds, there is no place to donate my time at all. Why bother? I look upon my college career as a stepping stone to greater and more profitable things. What's important in life, anyway? Here's a clue .... you can't feed yourself with love. You can't buy a new suit made out of compassion. You can't throw a big party for all of your friends if you don't have a big home to fit everyone in. I consider myself a good Catholic. I know that you are too. So, I try to take care of myself in the style that Catholics have adopt­ed for centuries. !live for myself, and myself alone. Is that not the way of the Catholic? So, I'll see you all in ........ heaven. 
past, and many of us 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
• TooAv's STAFF  
News  Graphics  
Dave Freddoso  Melissa Weber  
Laura Petelle ·  Production  
Sports  Tara Grieshop  
Brian Kessler  Dave Freddoso  
Viewpoint  Laura Petelle  
Mary Margaret Nussbaum  Lab Tech  
Accent  Sam Assaf  
Ashleigh Thompson  
Andrea Jordan  

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associared Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
-~-------· 

Wednesday, October 15, 1997
The Observer • INSIDE 
• WORLD AT A GLANCE 

Think tank report reaffirms U.S. military dominance 
LONDON 
Hegional conflicts show little sign of winding down, the world arms trade is growing and the United States has no challengers to its mili­tary dominance, a leading military think tank said Tuesday. 
There is also "considerable con­cern" about nuclear, biological and chemical weapons, the International Institute for Strategic Studies said in its study, "The Military Ralance 1997-98." A special focus of that concern is Iraq, which has defied. 
U.N. resolutions to diselose details of its chemical and biological weapons programs, the institute said. 
The annual assessment of military capabilities and defense spending in 169 countries concluded that pre­

Source: International Institute APIA. Kranz
venting or controlling civil wars and rise.
for Strategic Studies 
Clinton apologizes to Brasilians 
Amid distractions from home, President Clinton tried to smooth over misunderstandings about U.S. views on trade in Latin America on Tuesday and apologized to Brazil for a U.S. govern­ment slight. "The document was wrong," Clinton said of a U.S. Embassy commercial guide that outraged Brazilians by asserting corruption was 
"'"""""-"-_..,_-­endemic here. "And it represented an appalling error of judgment. No Brazilian could have been any more upset about it than I was. I thought it was terrible and I did everything I could to correct it." Clinton also tried to dis­pel widespread suspicions that Washington opposes the Latin trading bloc Mercosur and wants to instead create a hemispheric-wide free trade zone by 2005. Clinton said it wasn't an either-or choice. "I support Mercosur," the president said, referring to the alliance of Brazil, Argentina, Paraguay and Uruguay. "We can en)ate a free-trade area of Americas consistent with Mercosur .... So to me this is a false choice that we don't intend to ask the Brazilians, the Argentineans or the other members of Mercosur to make." On a hot, sunny day, Clinton spoke at a news conference with President .Fernando Henrique Cardoso in the Alvarado Palace garden where exotic birds sang in the trees. 
Scientists: Garlic wards off infections 
JEHUSALEM 
Israeli researchers announced today that they have found additional evidence for what grandmothers have known all along: eating plenty of garlic wards ol'f infec­tions. Scientists at the Weizman Institute of Science in Hehovot said they have isolated large quantities of allicin, garlic's main biologically active ingredient. The researchers found, through numerous tests, that allicin can disable infection-causing amoebas in test tubes. "We are now checking it on different kinds of cells," said Meir Wilehek of the institute's Riological Chemistry Department. Wilchek said if allicin is found to kill infec­tous disease-causing organisms, garlic may become the antibiotic of the future. Many infectious organisms have become resistant to currently known antibiotics such as penicillin and amoxicillan. One doctor, however, said more tests are needed. "This is an interesting prelimi­nary finding, but it needs to be taken further," said Dr. Elliott Berry of lladassah Hospital. Berry urged caution in further predictions before more complete research is done. 
• SoUTH BEND WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forcast AccuWeather® forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 
.............................................. 
r~, .......... 
H L 
Thursday  ~51  36  
Friday  Q  42  37  
··=···=··  
Saturday  ~50  35  
,>  /  
Sunday  __""  .  ~53  39  
rft.;  ' ·v ..,...,,  ~•.r  


4,~,~9.88(t~d 
Showers T-storms Rain Flurries Snow Ice Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy Via Assoc1ated Press GraphicsNet 
Arms sales boom 
A look at the trend in worldwide arms sales: 90--------------------­
-~ 84.9  In billions,  
1995 U.S. dollars  
60  
39.9  
v  

30 

o~~~~w.~~~~~-­
1987 '88 '89 '90 '91 '92 '93 '94 '95 '96 
• NATIONAl WEATHER 
The AccuWeather®forecast for noon, Wednesday, Oct. 15. 
os 
FRONTS: 

............................. ~ 
COLD WARM STATIONARY 
C 1997 AccuWeather, Inc. 
Pressure 
H L 


HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY VIB Assocul/tld Press 
Atlanta  65  48  Dallas  78  50  New Orleans  75  57  
Baltimore  60  50  Denver  67  33  New York  61  53  
Boston  56  50  Los Angeles  93  67  Phoenix  95  65  
Chicago  54  39  Miami  84  75  St. Louis  60  43  
Columbus  56  35  Minneapolis  57  35  San Francisco  80  56  

Hairstyle gets student fired 
BEHLIN 
An African law student !ired by a Berlin luxury hotel because ll'er corn-rowed hair did not conform to an "average" European styfe is demanding an apology, her lawyer said Tuesday. The woman, who was born in Rurundi and has lived in Rerlin for 16 years, was sent for a three-day temporary job at the newly rebuilt Hotel Adlon in June. She was let go on tlw second day, howev­er, because her braided hair did not conform with the international hotel's standards, said hotel lawyer Hans­Joachim Jungbluth. Jungbluth notified the woman's lawyer, Martin Poell, that the hotel's requirements included an "average middle-European haircut and style." Po ell called the phrase racist. Jungbluth said it was legal language taken from past court decisions and had nothing to do with race. "If a German with light skin had the same hairstyle, she couldn't have continued to work there either," he said. Hotel manager Jean van Daalen's office referred calls to their lawyer. But he told the Der Tagesspiegel newspaper last week that the woman's rejection had nothing to do with her national origin. "Perhaps an employee overreacted in the hotel's opening phase, but in any ease it was not meant person­ally," he said. Poell said his client wanted "an apology first of all" and $57 to $114 for the lost day's wages. Jungbluth said he would not consider apologizing because the hotel had done nothing wrong. 
.Hasbro, Galoob win 'Star Wars' 
NEW YOHK 
llasbro Inc. and Galoob Toys Inc. -the No. 2 and No. 3 U.S. toymakers -won the rights to produce toys for the three new Star Wars movies on Tuesday in a deal analysts called the biggest toy licensing agreement ev!~r. While both companies declined to disclose terms of the agreements, Star Wars is already the best-selling toy license to date, with millions of dollars in revenues each year. Galoob, meantime, offered almost one-firth of its 
. stock to the films' producers at an attractive price. "Star Wars is the biggest suceess story in the toy industry," said Frank Heysen, editor of Playthings magazine, a New York-based trade publication. "Since the original movie came out 20 years ago, there's hardly been any let up in demand for Star Wars' toys." Ilasbro and Galoob already hold the licenses for the original Star Wars trilo­gy. Each produces a wide range of merchandise that not only attracts children but fanatical adult collectors as well. While those agreements will still hold, both compa­nies also gain rights to the much-awaited "prequels" from Lucastilm Ltd. 
low-level regional conflicts is extremely difficult-"and there is little sign of these seriously abating." 
Chipman said the United States is the only country capable of conduct­ing large-scale military operations with a global reach. It is also "the principal architect" of existing bal­ance of power arrangements in Europe, the Middle East and Asia, and its role "is as vital as ever," he said. 
As for China, the institute said Reijing is upgrading its military forces but does not have the resources "to project a major conven­tional force beyond its territory." 
The global arms trade grew by 13 percent in 1995, and the trend con­tinued last year with an 8 percent 
-~----~-----------~ 
Wednesday, October 15, 1997 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Artists' works come to Moreau 
Fitzgibbon takes the reins, makes plans 
The host family programDirector chosen matches Notre Dame's interna­tional students with Michianafor international families to promote and intro­duce American community relations into the lives of the
student affairs 
international students. By ANNE HOSINSKI Also on Fitzgibbon's agenda News Writer is the institution of a field trip 
program, allowing internation­New cultural and educational al students to expand their 
experiences are on the horizon view of the United States by vis­
for Notre Dame's international iting other portions of the coun­students, according to Maureen try. Fitzgibbon, the newly appoint­Fitzgibbon began her career ed director of international stu­at the University of Iowa, serv­
dent affairs. ing as an international student Fitzgibbon intends to expand and scholar advisor from 1984­87.
the cross-cultural interaction between international and She graduated from the 
American students. University of Iowa with a bach­
"Our international students elor's degree in English in 1980 are here for more than just the and received a master's degree education. The.y have a strong in student development in post desire to experience the culture secondary education in 1986. of America as well," she said. Prior to serving at Notre 
Fitzgibbon plans on institut­Dame, Fitzgibbon spent 10 
ing a language exchange pro­years at Grinnell College in gram between international Iowa as the director of interna­and American students, in tional student services, and the 
which both groups of students assistant director of admis­can share experiences with one sions, coordinator of interna­another related to their respec­tional admissions and assistant 
tive cultures. director of off-campus studies. "My hope is to enhance the Fitzgibbon replaces Arthur support service for internation­Grubert, who recently was al students through the expan­appointed director of interna­
sion of the host family pro­tional education relations and gram," commented Fitzgibbon. student visas. 
Think ofus 
as yourscliooJ bus. 

semester breaks or heading home for your sister's if going home means catching a plane at Midway or the best way to the airport is United limo. 
Frequent service, all day from campus gets you there on schedule. And when it's time to hit the books again, we'll pick you up at the airport and bring you back to 
. school. No hassles, no problems. For infonnation and schedule consult your travel agent or call 
800..833-5555 
www.busville.com 

II~ITI=n II~AII 
Vi ~i i i.U i.ii i i'-' 
Your Airport Connection, O'Hare & Midway, All Day ... Every Day 
United Limo to the Chicago Airports 

By ARIANN BUTLER News Writer 
Moreau Galleries at Saint Mary's College will display the works of Susan Brandt and Charles Johnson until Nov. 7. 
According to Brandt, her work combines the "feminine virtue of quilt making with materials of questionable virtue." 
Her quilts are made from scrap materials that balance conceptual ideas with craft. She claims that she challenges the established definition of domes­ticity, femininity, and quilt mak­ing in relation to "high" art. 
"Her work ultimately and most importantly acknowledges women's historical and contem­porary roles as producers of meaning, not just makers of quilts." said Alison Ferris, cura­tor of the John Michael Kohler Art Center. 
Brandt. an instructor at Adirondack Community College in New York. holds a masters in fine art degree from The School of Art Institute of Chicago. She 
obtained her bachelor's degree from Philadelphia College of Art. 
Her work has been exhibited in New York, Wisconsin, North Carolina, New Jersey and Minnesota. Brandt has received grants from the New York Foundation for the Arts and Artist's Space. 
Johnson's work centcrs on the idea that "humans are a part of the natural environment and must coexist with the rest of nature." 
He incorporates realistically rendered endangered animals and architectural structures into the style of ceramic totems. 
The animals are presented in a rough and organic fashion that contrasts the hard-edged linear portions of the building, which are primarily Medieval churches and ancient structures. These contrasts emphasizes the "tem­porary and vulnerable quality" of the animals. 
In the future, Johnson said he plans to "push the dialogue of stacked objects even further" in his series of endangered ani­mals. He also hopes to incorpo­
rate a "series of multiple-part wall pieces" into public places. 
Johnson is an assistant profes­sor of art at Edinboro University of Pennsylvania. He has been awarded an individual Artist's Grant from the Wisconsin Arts Board as well as an Arts/Industry Artist in Residency from the John Michael Kohler Art Center. 
Most recently his work has been exhibited at the University of Kansas, the University of Nevada, and the University of North Texas. He holds amasters in fine arts and a masters in art from the University of Wisconsin-Madison, where he also obtained his bachelor's degree. 
Brandt and Johnson opened their exhibits last Friday with a reception and a lecture by Johnson on his pieces. 
The Moreau Galleries are open to the public Tuesday through Friday, 10 a.m. to 12 
p.m. and 1 p.m. to 4 p.m., Saturday, 10 a.m. to 12 p.m., and Sunday, 1 p.m. to 3 p.m. or by special appointment. 
Recycle The Observii--:or e!sef 

Player of the Year Candidate: 
FRI., Ocr. 17 
11:00pm 

Season TickeTs 10 AlltFaR.es ND T-sblR.Ts TO 
a~~s pRST 1,000 Fans 
. t Dl FKee admzsszon ro aLL
Cont 1nen a1 ~ 
Express • } ce CenTeR. 
---.------­
Wednesday, October 15, I 997 
page4 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS 
LONI 
continued from page 1 
"We were very impressed with the number of students we were able to help in the program's first year of existence," said Maria Thompson, LON! project educational director. 
"We currently have 1,000 Indiana prospects for next year who, we hope, will consider Saint Mary's as their college 
Stanford 
continued from page 1 
his own strong denunciation of 
the group's behavior. 
"As a community formed largely by Irish-American Catholics, we find the behavior of the Stanford band not merely ... boorish, but personally offen­sive," Malloy said in a statement. 
"Such bigotry -whether directed at Catholics, Jews, the Irish, African-Americans, Native Americans, or any other group -is absolutely unacceptable,· especially from a student organi­zation representing an institu­tion that rightfully prides itself on diversity," he added. 
The incident in Palo Alto is not the first time Stanford's band has upset the Notre Dame com­munity. In 1991, Malloy barred the school's marching band from 
Service 
continued from page 1 
part of the Cultural Diversity Seminar. 
The participants in the Cultural Diversity Seminar, working in conjunction with the choice," she added. 
Once admitted to Saint Mary's as an undergraduate, students are then entered into the men­taring program. Within the men­taring program, they are assigned faculty and student mentors who work closely with each woman and assist them with any questions that may arise. 
"Our goal was to have each mentor meet with their students at least once a month, however, they have actually been meeting at least once a week," White 
the Notre Dame campus, claim­ing its halftime antics "mocked members of the Catholic faith." 
Aware of the existing ban, which Malloy plans to extend indefinitely, Stanford said it will not seek permission to bring the performers to South Bend when the football teams clash here in 1998 and 2000. 
The band members' immedi­ate response to the controversy was one of confusion, claiming spectators overreacted to what was meant as a mere joke. 
"Our field show was meant to poke fun at the Notre Dame mascot and not at a group of people," band manager Scott McKissen told a Knight­Ridder/Tribune reporter. "Unfortunately, some people took it far more seriously than it was intended." 
Knight-Ridder/Tribune Media Services contributed to this report. 
Office of Multicultural Student Affairs, plan to tour ethnic neighborhoods in Chicago, hear the blues, and meet those work­ing in the Windy City to promote equality and integration. 
All three programs require orientation and follow-up ses­sions stressing relevant Catholic social teachings. 
said. 

The next phase of the pro­gram offers students the oppor­tunity to participate in summer internships between their junior and senior years. Having paid summer employment offers real world experience in the state of Indiana, while allowing students to stay close to home. 
"Many times students in small­er communities tend to want a quality education while being close to home," White stated. 
Since the invention of the pro­gram, Saint Mary's has been given the opportunity to hire two additional members to their counseling staff. 
"With the additional staff membnrs wn are able to intensi­fy our recruitment program," said Nolan. "We arc able to make ourselves visible to com­munities that we have never reached before, which we hope will strengthen our enrollment." 
The LONI program is twofold in that it benefits students in the state of Indiana, while at the same time contributing to the progress of the state. According to a 1995 "working paper" of the Indiana Commission for Higher Education, Indiana ranks 47th out of the 50 states in the percontage of residents ovor 25 years old with baccalaureate or higher degrees. 
"So far we have been very imprcssod with those who came from all over the state to partic­ipate," said White. "They all seem extremely proud to be a part of the program and are excited to go back to their hometowns to promote the pro­gram." 



.

Why lS Mona smiling? 

Rumor has it. Mona Lisa had pasta on her mind. Kind of like the authentic Italian pasta you'll find at Fazoli's. Fettuccine Alfredo, Spaghetti with rich Marinara sauce. And hearty Lasagna. just to name a few. Come by soon for a real work of art. You'll smile. too. 
52770 US Route 33N, 277-4008, South Bend 

Invite A Professor to 
Lunch. 
Starting October 27th ...... . 
Want to get to know your professor better? All you have to do is ask them! Professors will be given free meal tickets through their departments so that you can 

invite your professor to lunch or dinner. 
Student Academic Council Committiee 
Notre Dame Student Union 
Wednesday, October 15, 1997 The Observer • NATIONAL NEWS page 5 
Americans Merton and Scholes win economics Nobel 
By ERIC QUINONES derivatives, the risky invest­Myron S. Scholes of Stanford Associated Press Writer ments that have brought riches University were honored by the to some but ruin to Britain's Royal Swedish Academy of NEW YORK oldest bank and California's Sciences for devising a formula 
Two Americans won the Orange County. for pricing derivatives, such as Nobel Prize in economics Professors Robert C. Merton stock options. Tuesday for their work on of Harvard University and The work helped build what 
Extend Your Reach 
Campus Talk 
International Rates 


Algeria  Switzerland  0.46  
Andorra  Taiwan  0.60  
Argentina  Tajikistan  1.00  
Armenia  Thailand  0.82  
Australia  Trinidad & Tobago  0.80  
Austria  0.93  
Bahamas  0.98  
Belarus  1.00  
Belgium  1.00  
Bermuda  0.69  0.80  
Brazil  0.2  0.44  
Canada  0.17  0  1.00  
China  1.22  Ol36  0.54  
Colombia  o.78 ;;rr#'  Mexlco4  ,!t-15  ••  1.55  
Costa Rica  0.70 ,,;''"' Mexlco~5  !).52  0.85  
Czech Republic  0.85 ;w  Mexlco-6  }0.69  
Denmark  0.45  Mexico-7  0;80  
Dominican Republic  0.70  Mexico-8  (}.89  
Egypt  1.02  Monaco  0.46  
El Salvador  0.89  Nakhodka  1.00  
Ethiopia  1.25  Netherlands  0.46  
Finland  0.55  New Zealand  0.74  
France  0.46  Nigeria  0.98  
Georgia  1.04  Norway  0.50  
Germany  0.46  Pakistan  1.35  
Ghana  1.01  Panama  0.74  Rates apply 24 hours per day  
Greece Guam Guatemala Haiti  0.75 0.74 0.89 0.84  Philippines Poland Portugal Romania  0.80 0.75 0.73 1.35  No monthly fee, no minimum 30 initiaV6second increments 10% discount on all weekend  
Hong Kong  0.58  Russia  1.00  calls from discounted area  
Hungary  0.74  Saudi Arabia  0.92  code  
Iceland  0.71  Singapore  0.55  $2.00 surcharge applied to all  
India  0.85  South Africa  0.74  calls using 1.800.860.8900  
Indonesia Iran  0.94 1.18  Spain Sri Lanka  0.67 1.45  outside discount calling area  
Ireland  0.61  Sweden  0.44  

For more information call Dan Swain 286..6028 • swaind@lci.com 
Help YWCA 
help people 

:~.-.........·.·.•.·.·······················-·.·~.·.·,·,-.·,·~.-...-.......•.•.•.·.·...·.-.~·.··············································································~·.·······~l 
Join the United Way/Notre Dame team 
and pledge your support today 

YWCA-

offering the women's shelter, mother and child residential and outreach programs, and services YWCA for persons with AIDS 
now is a $70 
trillion global Black-Scholes formula 
market. Professors Robert C. Merton of Hruvard University and Myron S. Scholes o1 Stanford University have been awarded the Nobel Pnze in economics, Their
"People don't 
method to determine the value of derivatives is considered one of the foremost recognize it, but contributions to economic science over the last 25 years. 
their con tribu-
C =SN(d) -Le-"N(d-ev't)

tions helped 
This formula helped build derivatives into a $70 trillion global
make every-
market. Derivatives are financial investments whose values are body's life a lot derived from an underlying asset. 
better," said Homeowners or The lender is able buyers can lock in to offer a fixed rate
Robert Brusca, 
interest rates. and limit its ownchief economist risk by selling mortgage-backed
at Nikko 
derivatives toSecurities investors. 
International in Four major 
derivative markets: 

New York. 
Interest rates
Indirect

Derivatives 
Stocks and bonds are securities Currency 
benefits of 

formula linked to, or Commodities derived from, an 
Investment 
Investors gain 
underlying 
money flows a variety of asset, such as into the mortgage trading options market to make more with various
stocks, interest 
home loans. degrees of risk. 
rates or a cur­
rency. 
APfWm. J. Castello 

One common 
rises if the bet is wrong. 

form of derivative is a stock The most notorious loss on
option, which gives the holder the derivatives market was thethe right, but not the obligation, $1.38 billion that rogue traderto buy or Sflll a stock at a spe­Nick Leeson racked up on thecific price within a specific peri­
Tokyo stock market in 1995.

od. 
The losses brought down

Companies routinely use 
Barings, Britain's oldest bank. 

derivatives as a hedge against In 1994, Orange County lost
unforeseen losses due to cur­$1.64 billion in part from deriv­rency and interest-rate volatili­atives investments that guessedty. Derivatives make it possible, wrong on the direction of inter­for example, to refinance home est rates, leading to the biggestmortgages when interest rates municipal bankruptcy in U.S.
are falling. 
history.

But because buyers of deriva­
Procter & Gamble, one of

tives are not directly buying 
America's blue-chip companies, shares in a company or another lost more than $100 million onasset, determining their worth 

soured derivative investmentshad seemed more like gambling that same year.

than investing. 
Scholes originally developed Merton and Scholes' formula 

the theory on how to valuefor valuing the investments 

derivatives while working with

helped create a widely used 
Fischer Black, who died instandard and allowed for a 

1995. After the Black-Scholesworldwide trade in derivatives. 

formula on valuing stock

The market for derivatives is options was published in 1973,now nearly 10 times the U.S. 
Merton helped apply the workgross domestic product. 

to additional markets. 

"If you ask what idea in the Scholes said he was ecstaticlast 50 or 60 years coming from and surprised to share the $1
economic research has had the million prize with Merton. Both
biggest impact on the world, men are also partners in Long­this is it." said Avainash Dixit, Term Capital Management, an
an economics professor at 
investment firm in Greenwich,Princeton University. 

Conn.

In addition to using options Merton, the fourth Harvardand other derivatives to reduce winner of the economics prize
risk, speculators also trade 
and the school's 35th Nobel

them. Because they are cheap­
laureate overall, earned his 

er to buy than the underlying Ph.D. in economics in 1970 at
shares, there is a potential to the Massachusetts Institute of
leverage a relatively small 
Technology. Scholes earned hisamount of cash into a big gain. 

at the University of Chicago inBut the risk of big losses also 1969. 


Two information-packed meetings: 
15 <l&l\toi.Jer: 
Brenda, NO '98 and Angela, SMC '98, went back for one more semester in lnnsbruck. Find out why! Focus: •classes •getting around •host family experiences •immersion in the local culture •struggles 
and successes  118 DeBartolo, 4:30pm  
29 <!&lttoi.Jer:  
Prof.  Dr.  Gernot Gurtler,  Notre Dame's lnnsbruck Academic  

Coordinator, will be visiting from lnnsbruck with the latest news about the program. lnnsbruckers from previous years are encouraged to attend this meeting. Dinner afterward in South Dining Hall. (Get a meal pass in advance if you need one) 126 DeBartolo, 4:30pm 
STUDY ABROAD: IT'S GOOD FOR YOU! 
page 6 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT Wednesday, October 15, 1997 

Give away your coat... 
and 
SHARE THE WARMTH. 
FACTS AND FIGURES ON PovERTY AND AMERICA'S WoRKING PooR 
* Fastest grow­ing segment of homeless popu­lation: families and children. 
········ . 

* The growth •. <<• • in the number. . of.-:: •··········.. •• · working poor :· .····<·.. >.· 
grew by 400,000· :•· ·.· between 1980 <•·.•·.·>••. 
and 1990, all of·.•.• which were accounted for by the growth of female working poor. 
* In 1992, 21% of all children were poor, with 46% of African­American chil­dren and 39% of Hispanic young­sters living in poverty. 
* In 1993 the bottom 20% of households received only 3.6% of U.S. income while the top 20% amassed 48.2%, the widest gap since the Census Bureau started keeping track in 1947.­The top 5% of households earn 
· 

Each donor will receive a 2 chasing a new GEAR for s......_.....~ 

SOCIAL CONCERNS COMMUNITY SERVICE 



coats were , including ···~.ll•·:~~..:.•:rt1•··;;,"'n'·~s in need 
ound the sta­and 22. 

to be used in pur­otre Dame Bookstore 
Hammes Bookstore 
STUDENT AcTIVITIES 
St. Michael's Laundry 
Notre Dame Support Services 

----------~--~-----­

Wednesday, October 15, 1997 The Observer • INTERNATIONAL NEWS page 7 
Orthodox Jews issue ultimatum to Netanyahu 
By KARIN LAUB Associated Press Writer 
JERUSALEM In a step likely to anger American Jews, Prime 
Minister Benjamin Netanyahu agreed Tuesday to back legis­lation that will solidify Orthodox control over reli­gious affairs in Israel and block recognition of Reform and Conservative Judaism. 
Orthodox lawmakers said if Netanyahu goes back on his word, as he has done before, they will topple his govern­ment before the year is out. 
The Montana Power Company 
Presents 
For Undergraduate and MBA Students in All Majors 
• 
Robert P. Gannon ('66) vice chairman, president and chief executive speaking on "Chaos Theory And The Emerging New Energy Industry," Thursday, October 16, at 3:30 p.m. in Jordan Auditorium. 

• 
Steve Dee ('62) vice president of Corporate Marketing and former Notre Dame College of Business Administration professor, teaching an OMEGA class on "Leadership Management and Marketing," Friday, October 17, from 8:45­

10:15 a.m. in COBA Room 159. 

• 
An informal, university-wide discussion of the energy industry and full time and summer internship career opportunities with Gannon, Dee, and Jack Haffey (MBA '72), executive vice president and chief operating officer of Montana Power's Energy Communications and Services Division, Friday, October 17, from 10:30-11:45 a.m. in COBA Room 162. 


The Montana Power Company (NYSE:MTP) is a $1.1 billion revenue, diversified energy and telecommunications company based in Butte, Montana. 
Wall Street Forum 
-Presentations on-
Commercial Banking +lnveSIIIIentBanking • Asset Management 
ExecutiveslroDJ 
Chase Manhattan+ Credit Suisse/First Boston Goldman Sachs + Lehman Brothers+ Merrill Lynch Morgan Stanley, Dean Witter, Discover & Co. Robert Baird + Salomon Smith Barney+ T. Rowe Price 
Who: AlJ Majors & Classes Welcome 
When: Friday, October 31, 1997 + 10:00 a.m.-3:30p.m. 
Where: 
Jordan Auditorium -Col1ege ofBusiness Administration 
For further intormauon contact: 
Prof. John Affleck-Graves 631-6370 • affleck-graves.l@n2.edu 
Students may submit resumes_to COBA.102 by October 30 for inclusion in the Wan Street Resume Book 
The proposed legislation would alienate American Jews, including some of Netanyahu's most powerful supporters. 
More than 90 percent of U.S. Jews belong to non-Orthodox streams of Judaism. In Israel, however, while the vast majority of Jews are secular, less than 1 percent belong to the Reform or Conservative movements. 
The move "will be seen by American Jews as delegitimiz­ing their Jewish identity," said Rabbi Uri Regev, head of the Reform movement in IsraeL 
Since Israel was founded, the Orthodox have had a monopoly over official reli­gious affairs. Only Orthodox rabbis sit on local religious councils, which provide vari­ous religious services, perform marriages and conversions and grant divorces. 
The Reform movement in Israel has tried to challenge the Orthodox monopoly in court, while the Orthodox have pushed the government to pass legislation that would for­mally deprive the other streams of recognition. 
In June 1996, Netanyahu promised the Orthodox that his government would pass legislation affirming that only Orthodox rabbis can perform conversions in IsraeL 
Reform and Conservative conversions performed abroad are recognized in IsraeL 
But in an attempt to avoid a showdown with American Jews, Netanyahu got the bill put on hold while a committee headed by Finance Minister Yaakov Neeman, an Orthodox Jew, sought a compromise. 
Orthodox rabbis were alarmed Monday when leaks from the committee suggested that Neeman would propose setting up a conversion insti­tute with representatives from all three streams. 
Orthodox parties are also troubled by a Supreme Court case on whether Reform and Conservative representatives can sit on religious councils. The court ruling Oct. 29 is expected to be against them. 
So six Orthodox legislators from three parties told Netanyahu they would topple his government unless he got the conversion bill and legisla­tion to maintain Orthodox dominance in religious coun­cils passed by November. 

Netanyahu promised to sub­mit a bill on the religious councils. 
He also pledged to get the conversion bill passed if Neeman's committee did not reach an acceptable compro­mise by mid-November, said Bobby Brown, Netanyahu's adviser on Diaspora affairs. 
In the meantime, Brown said, the prime minister would try to keep both sides talking in hopes of avoiding a show­down. ­
However, that seems increasingly unlikely_ 
Regev, the leader of the Reform movement, said the Orthodox resistance to any recognition of the rival streams makes compromise impossible. 
He said the Reform move­ment will press ahead with its court cases and not agree to further delays. 
Besides the religious council case, the government must explain to the Supreme Court on Nov. 10 why it does not recognize conversions per­formed by Reform and Conservative rabbis in IsraeL 
Once the disputes are back in court, Brown said, the gov­ernment will fully back Orthodox legislation. "If the (religious) status quo is threat­ened by litigation, then there will be legislation," he told The Associated Press. 
Meanwhile, Israel's Channel 2 TV said Arieh Deri, head of the religious Shas party, was working through back chan­nels to win the opposition Labor Party's support for the conversion bilL 
Labor has been trying to mend its troubled relations with Israel's religious minori­ty, but many of its supporters would see backing the bill as a betrayaL 

God's
people
need you. 

For more information on the Holy Cross one-year Candidate Program contact 
Moreau Seminary 

Fr. Jim King, c.s.c. Notre Dame, IN 46556 

(219) 631-6385 http://www.nd.edu/-vocation 
ANSWER~ 
THECALLW 
Fr. Bill Wack, cs.c 


~-----------­
VIEWPOINT 
page 8 Wednesday, October 15, 1997 
THE OBSERVER 
NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY'S OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46551) (219} 284-5365 
1997-98 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Brad Prendergast 

The Observer is rhe independenr newspaper published by the .~rudents ofrhe University of Notre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the: administration ofeirher 
institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible:. Unsigned editorial~ represent 1he opinion of rhe majoriry of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, Assisram Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Sporrs Ediror, Accc:nr Editor, Saint Mary's Editor, Photo Ediror, and Associate News Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Columns present the: views of rhe aurhors, and nor neces­sarily those ofThc: Observer. Yiewpoinr space is available to all members of rhe Notre Dame/Sainr Mary's community and m all readers. The free expression of varying opinions through lener~ is encouraged. 

Parties Face Critical Test in November 
• OtHJNESBURY GARRY TRUDEAU 
'7lJ PROTE5T

"ANCJACCORPIN6 7lJA 
lH~ CONI?fT!()I-.G,

NeW !<£PORT, lH&I<£ 
lf/6 t/~ AU Nil<&­

AJ<e 577t.L-Nt/Ma?Ot./5 
5ftl'60R£/?AlJ-11£7$ 7lJ

tABOR VIOLAT/ON51N N/Ke~ MC?lJ/?1&5/N 
RCFU% 70 tvt:.AR 7H!i/R. Of!NA." 
6&41< lH/5 W!FEiK&Nl?. " 
• GUOTE OF THE DAY 
"There is unrest in the 
forest/There is trou­ble with the trees/For the maples want more sun­light/But the oaks ignore their pleas." 
-Rush 
Managing Editor 
Jamie Heisler 
Assistant Managing Editor 

Dan Cichalski News Editor ............................ Heather Cocks Viewpoint Editor ...................... Kelly Brooks 
Sports Editor ................................. Mike Day Accent Editor__ , ....................... Joey Crawford Saint Mary's Editor.. ....... Lori Allen Photo Editor ........................... Katie Kroener 
Observer Phone Lines  
Editor-in-Chief  631-4542  Business Office  
Managing Editor  631-4541  Advertising  
News/Photo  631-5.123  Systems  
Sports  631-4543  Office Manager  
Accent/Saint Mary's  631-4540  Fax  
Day Editor/Viewpoint  631-5303  · Viewpoint E-Mail  
Ge-neraJlnformation  631-7471  Ad E-Mail  

• AWAKENINGS 
With the recent buzz around Washing­ton over independent counsels and miss­ing videotapes, it is easy to forget that there are some key state and city elec­tions taking place in November. The gubernatorial races in New Jersey and Virginia (the only two in the country) and the mayoral campaign in New York promise to captivate political intrigue. Who knows -they may even jolt the political climate as we prepare for the 1998 midterm elections. 
J.P. 
Cooney 

In years past, the results of these three elections have had a national impact on the following year's congres­sional elections. As a result, the nation­al party organizations are intimately involved, spending large amounts of campaign money in an attempt to gain visibility and momentum for 1998. The question is, why is there so much at stake in three seemingly small off-year elections? 
Rewind back to 1993: Republican Rudolph Giuliani preaches fiscal respon­sibility and governmental reform in the New York mayoral race, defeating the popular Democratic incumbent David Dinkins in a major Democratic strong­hold. Across the George Washington Bridge in New Jersey, Republican Christine Todd Whitman's aggressive tax-cut proposal brings her from more than 10 points behind to upset Democratic incumbent Jim Florio. Just 250 miles down south in Virginia, George Allen, the tobacco-chewing son of a football coaching legend, scores a 
Bminess Manager Tom Roland 
Advertising Manager ............................. jed Peter!! Ad Design Manager ..................... Jennifer Breslow Production Manager .........................Mark DeBoy Systems Manager ................. Michael Brouillet Controller.... .. ............. -.................. Kyle Carlin 
major gubernatorial victory for the GOP by promising to get tQugh on crime through the elimination of parole. 
Fast forward from 1993 to 1994: The Newt Gingrich-led GOP drafts a united platform called "Contract With America." Its cornerstone issues are reducing the size of government, elimi­nating deficits through fiscal modera­tion, cutting taxes, and getting tough on crime. Do those issues sound familiar'? They are the exact same critical issues which swept three underdog Republicans into office in New York City, New Jersey, and Virginia in 1993. The Hepublican Party went on to a landslide congressional victory, gaining control of both houses for 
the first time in Messinger's decades. No won­chances are slim, der the national however. parties arc so con­McGreevey is a cerned. young politician 
In 1993, the with scant expnri­Republican chal­encc; hn was once lengers echoed a mayor and is central conserva­now a state sena­tive tenets to make tor. llis ideology, their way from like many 1990s behind. The Domocrats, is still themes expounded somewhat unde­in the New York, fined. llr, is wag­New Jersey, and ing an all-out war Virginia elections with Whitman on had universal the issue of car appeal and insurance ratos, pinched a nerve which are higher that resonated in New Jersoy with voters nation-L-----------------­than anywhern in 
wide. It was these races which helped motivate Gingrich to unite Hepublicans under the Contract. 
These 1993 races served as accurate predictors of voter preferences in the proceeding midterm election, and 1997 holds similar potential. This time the challengers are Democrats: Ruth Messinger in New York, James McGreevey in New Jersey, and Donald Beyer in Virginia. Actually, Beyer does not face the incumbent Allen because 
631-5313 
631-6900/8840 631-8839 631-7471 
6.~1-6927 
Viewpoint.! @nd.edu observer@darwin.cc.nd.edu 

the country. He is also highly critical of Whitman's tax-cut package. A victory for McGreevey, whose chances increase each day as Whitman's popularity wanes and his name recognition increases, might signal a rejection of "foolhardy" Republican "tax schemes" and cause the GOP's trump card issue to lose credibility. 
Beyer is the classic New Democrat. lie is fiscally conservative, socially liber­al, and willing to go head-on into tradi-Virginia does not allow governors to serve consecutive terms. But Beyer's opponent, Attorney General James Gilmore, might as well be the incum­bent. Unlike the 1993 Republiean eandi­dates, these three arc strikingly dissimi­lar. Each represents one of the frag­mented wings of the Democratic Party. 
Messinger hails from the Democrat's old libnral-wing. In the 1970s and '80s she was a staunch advocate for the poor, hornnless, and underprivilnged. While she has attempted to change hnr image for the 1997 race, a victory for Messinger would be a victory for Gephardt Democrats, and may signal a potnntialliberal-resurgcnce in thfl elec­
toratn. 

tionally Republican issue areas. lie is combative with Gilmore on two hot-but­ton issues: abortion and punishment for sex offenders. This is critical, for he is posing a direct challenge to the Christian Coalition in a southern state and seeking to dispel voter conc~wns that Democrats are soft on crime. Also significant is the distinct gender cleav­age in Virginia-women overwhelm­ingly favor Beyer while men prefer Gilmore. A Beyer victory would further exploit the gender gap in the Hepublican Party and solidify the Democrats' strength among women voters. 
Mnssinger, McGreevey, and Beyor all serve as major issue balloons for the Democrat's 1998 congressional cam­paign. The three distinct candidates' success and their Hepubliean opponents' ability to deflect their attacks ovor the next month will dictate the pace of play for 1998. A Messinger eomeback in Now York might revitalize the liberal­wing; a victory in New Jersey for McGreevey would signal the need to appeal to tho pocketbook; and a victory for Beyer would invigorate New Democrats and delivr,r a blow to funda­mental conservatism. 
In all likelihood, the two Hepublican incumbents will coast to victory and Beyer will scom a dose last-minute win in Virginia. And that's exactly how 1998 will probably go-the Hepublicans will maintain their narrow majority and the Democrats will remain moderate and in the minority. But don't count out the possibility of some upset victories and a disrupting of the current political cli­mate -it happened in 1993 and could happen again. 
J.P. Cooney is ajunior economics and gollernment major living in Knott 1/all. lie can be reached at Joseph.P.Cooney.6@nd.edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those ofThe Observer. 
VIEWPOINT
Wednesday, October 15, 1997 page 9 
• Goo'N' liFE • THE MIGHTY .OAK 
Profanity is Never Funny 
S
id Caesar took the stage earlier this year at the Golden Globe Awards, paying tribute to his friend, director Rob Reiner. Caesar received a standing ovation, and the audience roared with laughter as he prattled on in Italian, French, and German. 
As his name implies, Sid Caesar was the "King of Comedy" when television 
Julie Ferraro 

was young. lie had a staff of writers who knew what made people laugh: good, clean jokes and hilarious slapstick. The ongoing popularity of Sid Caesar indi­cates that this kind of comedy still brings laughs from an audience. Itis a sad reflection on the state of modern come­dy. 
Neil Simon. one of Sid Caesar's own writers for his television shows, went on to make his name writing comedies for the stage and movies. The fact that most of his plays have spent years on Broadway is proof that he is a "success." Why, then, does such a successful play­wright have to resort to using foul lan­guage to get laughs? 
In Neil Simon's recent hit play "Laughter on the 23rd Floor" -based on the escapades of Sid Caesar's writers back in the 1950s-a lot of the comedy hinges on language that is not fit to speak or print. Caricatures of Neil Simon and his brother Danny, Mel Brooks, Carl Reiner. Larry Gelbart and others use the "f-word" so often it has, on occasion, caused audience members to walk out on regional productions. Itmakes a per­son stop and think what has really hap­pened to comedy writing. 
Years ago, writing comedy could have been compared to writing great litera­ture. It had a lasting value. The day after Sid Caesar's weekly episode of "Your Show of Shows," people laughed all over again when sharing those good jokes with co-workers or neighbors. Today, much of comedy relies on foul-mouthed insults, infidelity, homosexuality and other topics that tear apart relation­• ships, instead of building them up. 
What is funny, after all, about someone taking the Lord's name in vain? If you take a second to think about it. nothing. And knowing that God loves us all equal­ly, using foul language to insult a friend isn't funny either. As children of God, what we read and what is written for us to watch on the stage and in movies, should bring us closer to God, not influ­ence us to do wrong. 
Pity the writers who believe that, just because they receive a big check for their efforts, "anything goes" in comedy. Pity the writers, and don't take their example. 
Anything doesn't go in comedy, espe­cially in this age when so many people need a good, honest laugh to keep their spirits alive when faced with wars, low wages, bills and other troubles we read about in the daily news. We don't need the Neil Simons of the world showing us, through their writing, how to ruin our relationships by offending people with foul language, all in the name of comedy. We need the likes of Sid Caesar to remind us what it means to really have fun. 
Julie A. Ferraro is a local administra­tive assistant. She can be reached at Julie.A.Ferraro.3@nd. edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Clearcut Logging Rapes the Earth 
There are few scourges of humanity that can so utterly mature trees on the burn site. demolish the work of God as can the great clearcuts that are Logging practices on public land are also conducted with perpetrated on the American West, the tropical rainforests the health of the forest in mind (so the agencies claim; sec-and the other great forestlands of the world. The horrible ond to economics, of course, but not necessarily at odds with clearcuts leave huge scars that bleed soil in great flows into it). Selective cutting of individual trees tends not to open up the streams that vein them; great unnatural things which a large enough hole in the canopy to allow oak seedlings a can be seen from space. Whatever fool would advocate this fighting chance against young maples who are already lofty sort of rape in the name of eco-by comparison. Therefore, the nomics or jobs or whatever other agencies have been favoring euphemism for greed should small-scale clearcuts. Plenty of seriously re-examine the func-light is available for oak or pine tinning of his common sense. germination and growth; mature Limited clearcutting, however, seed trees are in close proximity may be necessary to maintain and a vigorous stand of young the health of some forests that trees is quick to develop. The have already been altered by cuts are strategically located to human activity. The clearcutting reduce erosive consequences and issue is certainly not clearcut. dead standing trees -snags ­
In general, the eastern forests are left because they provide are more elastic to the effects of important nest sites for many logging than the great cathedral birds and other cavity-dwelling forests of the Northwest. They wildlife. have been under the sway of Nonetheless, these small scale American civilization longer and clearcuts are riddled with prob-those pieces of their biodiversity !ems. The heavy equipment assn-which did not quickly fold under ciated with logging compacts for-pressure and die out ·have adapt-est soils, destroying the delicate ed and Jive in a tenuous sort of communities of fungi, inverte­balance. And certainly the brates, and microbes which dwell clearcuts of the East no longer in the soil and are essential to the approach the ridiculous bias-perpetuation of the nutrient 
phemies of the West. L_____________________ cycles which drive forest life. 
__j 

The Ozark forests of Missouri and The exposed soils are rapidly dried by Arkansas have been significantly the sun, further reducing their regener­changed since they were subjected to ative potential. Small vertebrates also large scale logging around the turn of suffer terribly; one study indicates that
Sean the century. At that time the land was most of the amphibian population in clothed in a mixture of pine, pine-oak, clearcuts was crushed. Imagine the and oak-hickory forest. with large areas compoundment of these factors when 
O'Connor of open woodland and savanna-park-massive areas are stripped bare. lands of widely spaced trees underlain But there are other subtle mechanisms with the grasses and herbs of the adja-at work in the small clearcuts of the cent midwestern prairies. This mosaic east. The fragmentation of tracts of was maintained by the limited occur-eastern forest produces more of that renee of natural fire and by controlled burns set by the kind of habitat that biologists know as "edge," the brushy Osage and other Native American groups. When the big tim-transition between closed forest and field. There are a host ber companies rolled in around the 1890s their chief target of organisms that thrive in edge. Among these are many was the pine, and they ripped through the hills in no time at animals that predate the nests of song birds, feeding on eggs all. The mill at Grandin, Missouri in the heart of the pine or young, such as blue jays, grackles, raccoons, and skunks. country was the biggest in the world in its day. Nary a pine But the most notorious of these is rather a nest parasite, was left for miles in many locales; and these were not days the brown-headed cowbird. These drab little fellows lay of reseeding, either out of goodwill or legal obligation. their eggs in the nests of other songbirds and then go on Without any standing mature pines left to reseed by wind, their merry way (it is thought they evolved this poor-parent­the pines simply disappeared from great areas. ing behavior because they had constantly to follow the rov-
With the cover gone the effects of local farmers running ing buffalo herds whose backs they picked clean of parasites cattle and hogs on the ridges worsened erosion and tram-and whose churned-up trails they devoided of insects). pled regenerating vegetation. Unbridled and frequent fire When the cowbird hatches it pushes the nestlings of the resi­swept through, further stripping the vegetation and com-dent bird out of the nest; or, if they have not yet hatched, it pounding the erosion problem. The rivers of the region suf-pierces the eggs with its beak. The parent bird, bound by fered greatly from the input of gravel eroded out of the hills; instinct, feeds the unruly and usually larger cowbird nestling but this is another story. until it fledges. No young of the parents' own kind usually 
Eventually the various conservation organizations of the survive. state gained some control over the situation. Grazing was The past 10 years or so have seen an alarming decrease in limited and fire was completely suppressed. But shortleaf the number of neotropical migrant songbirds breeding in the pine, the only pine native to the Missouri Ozarks, depends on eastern forests. Previously it was thought that the decline fire to reproduce. The cones of this pine open only when could be explained by the deforestation of their tropical-their sealing resin is melted by the heat of a fire. And the American wintering grounds. A recently completed long-mature trees withstand fire well owing to the thick protec-term study suggests another significant factor in the decline tant bark of their trunks and their tendency to resprout from -cowbird parasitization-and nest predation in the eastern stumps. With no pines left to reseed anyway, oaks quickly North American forests. These migrant birds, such as the stepped into their place. In a short time, all the hills were many thrushes and wood warblers, are the primary victims clothed in a vigorous forest of oaks and their associate hick-of cowbird parasitization. One, the yellow warbler, which ories and all seemed well to the newcomer, but the charac-can produce three or four clutches of eggs each season, lost ter of the place was definitely changed. 100 percent of its broods to cowbirds in many cases. And 
The oaks formed a closed canopy which cast a dense the increase in these predations which led to the decline can shade. The only understory trees, shrubs, and herbs that be attributed to small clearcuts fragmenting the forest. could grow there were very shade tolerant. The prairie So what is the answer? 1-Iow can these forests, that have plant communities which had flourished in the dappled light already been much altered, destroyed and somewhat of the oak and pine savannas disappeared. But everything restored, hemmed in or infiltrated by towns and roads, be was thick and green and deer and turkey slowly returned in best managed to promote long-term health and biodiversity? great numbers. The solution is surely site-specific. Forests differ in their 
The oaks have grown now untroubled by significant fire composition quite significantly across the east. Different fac­for a considerable time. And in their shade, a miniature for-tors are at work; in many eastern forests the succession to a est of sugar maples has sprung up. Sugar maples are resis-forest of sugar maples (and beeches, which only grow in a tant to shade; they germinate well in the understory and few counties of Missouri) is the normal pattern (nearby grow to a small size, then lock into a sort of static state wait-Warren Woods in Michigan is a superb example, especially ing for a window of light to open and give them a place to go. in the spring, when the silvery columns of the beech cathe-Today, when a big oak falls, the maples quickly shoot up to dral rise out of a rich floor that laughs with scores of take its place in the canopy. ephemeral woodland flowers). There seems to be a down-
Oaks do not germinate well in their own shade, and for side to every management practice yet invented; how can we that matter, neither do pines. Over the past few years, biolo-hope to come up with something to take the place of what gists have begun· to notice a shift in the composition of developed over millions of years of interactions too intricate Missouri forests in favor of sugar maples, presumably to imagine·? Perhaps something must be partially sacrificed because of the deep shade in which seedlings must germi-to assure the well-being of the greater whole. But too much nate. The maples are considered generally less desirable in has already been sacrificed. terms of wildlife benefit. And for God's sake, if some system is still functioning natu-
Missouri agencies that manage the public forests have rally and unhinder~d by the hurting or the helping hand of implemented a number of practices in attempt to restore the humanity, leave it alone. original character of the forests or at least prevent the suc­cession to sugar maples. Controlled burns are a large part Sean O'Connor, Notre Dame '97, is a first-year graduate of this program; they do not kill the big, mature trees, but student at Notre Dame. He can be reached at clear out the underbrush and many of the smaller trees, Sean.B.O'Connor.43@nd.edu. encouraging the growth of savanna grasses and forbs. The views expressed in this column are those of the author Burns also encourage shortleaf pines to reseed if there are and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
ACCENT
page 10 Wednesday, October 15, 1997 
• AccENT Asw:s••• 
What is your favorite piece of artwork? 

"Picasso's 'Nudes Dancing' because there are nude peo­ple in it!" 
Luther Groth Junior, Alumni 
"'Starry Night' by Van Gogh. There's a deep meaning behind it, which I have yet to uncover." 
Danielle Maloney Junior, Regina 



"'Far Side: School for the Gifted,' because it expresses deep truths of gifted students." 
Scotch Herrity Freshman, St. Edward's 
"Michaelangelo's 'Pieta,' because it portrays Jesus' divine suffering." 
Lauren Herring Sophomore, Cavanaugh 



"'The LaFortune Barbeque Mural' because it makes me so hungry!" 
Donald Doan Freshman, Carroll 

By BRIDGET RZEZUTKO 
Accenr Writer 

M
ost people know a little something about art. If anything, you know a Picasso from a Monet, or at the very least, your red crayon from thn blue crayon. Maybe you even remember the color wheel. or know that "yellow and blue make green," a lesson learned from Zip-Lock commercials. However, there are some very talented students on this campus who know even more than that. The ISIS Gallery inside Ril<~y Hall of Art and Design sponsors either student artwork or an up-and-coming artist each month. 
This month's featured artist is Annie Kammerer, a seeond year graduate student in painting. The mural in the football offico and this show in the ISIS gallery arc just a few of the credits given to her name and talent. Kammerer's main interests are art and food, and with that in mind she created seven works of art to create a show entitled "Consuming Rituals." 
"I wanted to study food and its role in rituals, especially weddings. The wedding cake plays a big role in the ceremony," Kammerer said. 
Most pHopln aren't <twaro of it, but the wedding cake has both history and a symbolic meaning. We often lose touch with these meanings through constant repetition. Lot's face it, no one tells us the story behind these rituals; people tend to do them without knowing why. 
The traditional Anglo-Saxon wedding cake, with its tall, white and extravagantly deco­rated tiers, symbolizes the bride. Dating back to the Victorian era, married couples have cut the wedding eake together. The cutting ol' the cake is the first ad the couple per-

Photo Courtesy ot Vanda Nagy 

Annie Kammerer and Heidi Steinke prepare for opening night of "Consuming Rituals." 
forms together after marriage. Once it is cut into pieces and eaten by all the guests pre­sent, it represents the act of consummation, publicly sanc:tifying thr. marriage. Kammerer brings the meaning of cake cutting into question by blurring the distinction between the bride and the cake. 
"I don't have any criticism toward weddings or women. I am just slightly critical of the food ritual. The cake has such an original meaning, but over the top is a layer of floofi· ness," she commented. 
Kammerer painted four oil paintings, all on canvas. each of different wedding cakes. Each painting represents a part or aspect of the ceremony. For example, the painting entitled "Bridal Cake" has an obvious body reference to a woman with distinctive imprints made by using a doily. Another painting, titled "Baptismal Cake," illustrates the baptism of the ceremony. 
Another piece, called "Bustle" occurred to Kammerer during a scroll workshop. It is made of paper and tulle and is quite large, which is meant as a parody. This bustle is exaggerated to show how much planning and effort are put into a moment that always disappears so fast. 
Even the veil holds a symbol in Kammerer's artwork; it is not just a veil but also a recipe. This is another way to show that the cake represents the bride -the "recipe" is clearly visibh~ while the bride is at the altar or walking down the aisle. 
A recipe of the cake is also neatly handwritten on large sheets of homemade paper tacked to the wall. This is to emphasize the many ingredients and amount of energy put into the event, which is stressed by Kammerer's use or the phrase "gently combine," list­ed in the ingredients. 
"Consuming Hituals" is on display through Oct. 26. The ISIS hours are from 8:30 a.m. to 5 p.m., Monday thr·ough Friday. Although the schPdule may be subject to ehange, a slew of students and up and coming artists arc scheduled to be featured throughout the year. 
From Oct. 30 to Nov. 20, sculptures by Christopher Furman will he on show at the gallery, and from Dec. 4 through Jan. 18 the first-yoar studio graduate group will dis· play a show entitled, "New Faces." 
Paintings by Dan Addington can be seen from Jan. 22 to Feb. 13. To follow, a theme show of jurh~d art works will appear from Fnb. 20 to Mar. 2. Ceramies by Corrine Peterson will be on display from Mar. 6 through Apr. 6. 
finally, to close out the year. the BA show will be held Apr. 20 to May 17. featuring undergraduate seniors. 
Check out these art displays while they are here. There is no price for admission and everyone free to wander about the gallery at their leisure. Don't worry about not under­standing art. -the featured atrist always places an "artist statement" on the wall to oxplain his or her intent and tlw meaning behind the work. 
The next time you are in The Huddle munching on a delicious pizza, head on over to Riley Hall. These artists have an incredible talent and have created beautiful works for you to nnjoy, thus tako advantage of it. You nover know, one or them eould be the next Renoir, or the next Annie Kammerer. Just think, you would be able to say you saw the artwork way back when. Imagine the envy. 
The Observer/Kevin Dalum 

r-·~----------~-----~-----~------------------­
·-· ~---. -------------­
--~ 
Wednesday, October 15, 1997 page 11
ACCENT 



0 rt 
By ASHLEIGH THOMPSON Associate Accent Editor 
W 
at do New York's Museum of Modern Art, Chicago's Museum of 
Contemporary Art and Notre Dame's-snite Museum of Art have in 
ommon? All have housed one-person exhibits of Lorna Simpson, one of America's hottest young African-American artists. 
Born in Brooklyn, NY, Simpson has exhibited her photography interna­tionally, and is one of the most closely-followed conceptual artists working today. Simpson's works raise issues regarding the legitimacy of pho­tographs as reality, women as viewed objects in art, and additional racial and sexist stereo­types. 
"Details," an exhibit of 21 of Simpson's photographs, is currently on display through Nov. 1 6 at the Snite. 
Images of the hands of V a r i 0 U S Lama Simpson. "She. ""1992. Collection Museum of Contemporary Art. Chicago. 

A f r i c a n -"Details," an exhibit by internationally acclaimed photographer Am e r i can s . Lorna Simpson, is currently on display at the O'Shaughnessy the ph o-Gallery of the Snite Museum of Art. tographs each 
include accompanying text. Othe~· large format photographs lent from SoHo's Sean Kelly Gallery accompany the series. 
Scattered on the gallery walls, the images immediately capture the viewer's eye with their striking simplicity,. while the captions present a separate. mental challenge. Once reconciled and understood as a coherent unit, they convey notions of clarity and brilliance. 
The exhibit is guest curated by Hobert Haywood, assistant professor of art history and criticism. 
'"Details' is a provocative yet subtle suite of 21 intaglio prints which force a wedge between visual and linguistic modes of communication. Each image consists of a body part (specifically a hand} and sentence fragment,". he said. "In trying to establish a connection between the hand gesture and the textual fragment (for example, 'acted in self-defense'), the viewer is compelled to invent a story to make the part-body, part-text cohere as a narrative. And yet any story one invents, which inevitably invokes racial and gender stereotypes, fails to cohere -fails, that is, to present itself as truth." 
The female subjects are neither eroticized nor specifically named, sub­verting the traditionally patriarchal domination of art. They defy the male viewer, asserting themselves as protagonists in Simpson's drama. Despite the beauty and strength they convey. the subjects also suffer from univer­sal vulnerability, unwillingly victimized by the ignorance of contemporary America. Simpson assumes a uniquely African-American tone that applies to the universality of modern America. 
Simpson questions the historical and cultural contexts that give meaning to photographic images and texts. They do not serve as aesthetic objects in and of themselves, but instead address a political agenda usually found outside of artistic realm. The associated captions undermine the intimacy of the photographs in order to raise issues of public importance. The com­bination of text and photographs confronts the the viewer's sense of secu­rity by questioning society's conventions. 
Simpson earned a BrA from the School of Visual Arts in New York, and her MFA from the University of California, San Diego. She is the recipient of awards from the College Art Association and the National Endowment for the Arts. Various reviews and publications have featured her consis­tently since the mid-1980s. 
Simpson will lecture in the Snite's Annenberg Auditorium on Oct. 30 at 
7:30 p.m., made possible by the Snite Museum, the Dept. of Art, Art llistory and Design, Gender Studies, the African and African-American Studies Program, and Mr. and Mrs. John C. Hud·olph. Simpson's visit will also include a seminar program for students and faculty the following morning. The lecture is free and open to the public. 
The Snite Museum of Art is open to the public from 10 a.m. to 4 p.m. on Tuesday and Wednesday, from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. Thursday through Saturday, and 1 p.m. to 5 p.m on Sundays. The Snite is closed on Mondays and major holidays. and there is no charge for admission. 
Thanks to the Snite Museum of Art for their cooperation and informa­l inn. Further information can be obtained by calling the exhibit curator, Professor Haywood, at 631-6208, or the Snite Museum ofArt at 631-4 711. 
Ten Ways to Better Understand Art 
By KRISTIN DOYLE 
Accent Copy Editor 
D
o you dread visits to art museums? Do you regard con­temporary art as an over-hyped, over-priced scam? 
Do you slink away whenever the conversation turns to art interpretation? 
If you must answer "yes" to any of these questions, per­haps you are afflicted with a common ailment identified by physicians as artophobia. 

The symptoms range from anx­iety and loss of speech to nau­sea and blurry vision. There is hope, however. A gradual increase in exposure to art coupled with the prescription of our very own Gina Costa, the Snite Museum's Curator of Education, virtually guamntees relief. 
The treatment is founded on an increased awareness of your own ability to create a valuable interpretation of a piece based solely on your membership with the human race. A series of questions that highlight contrasts betwPen different works and their features lie at the core of the treatment. 
1. 
rrame and pictorial area: What is the proportion of the frame's height ta its width? What is the relation of shapes to the frame? Is it harmonious or dis­cordant? Are they "respected" by the frame or cut by it? 

2. 
Techniques: What materials are used? What type of paint? How is the paint applied? (Strokes, layers, spots? Thickly or smoothly?) Are the colors transparent or opaque? 

3. 
Organization: Is it simple or complex? Geometrically ordered or free and seemingly accidental? Do some forms dominate over others? Is there symme­try? Is the space crowded? Is there variety or repetition of form? 

4. 
Individual units: Are there many objects in the space? Are they large or small? Are they regular or irregular shapes? What kind of pattern do they form? What proportion of solid and "broken up" areas? Is there an emphasis on center or marginal areas? To what degree is the work ornate? Are the forms bulging or nat? 


5. Lines: Are they clear or obscure, angular or curved? 
6. 
Colors: Are they bright or subdued, "plain," "rare" or elaborately mixed? Are there any dominant colors? Are they warm, cool, dark or light? Are there moderate or extreme contrasts? What about repetitions or "echoes"? 

7. 
Light: Is there a consistent source? Do the sources lie inside or outside of the picture or both? Is there a strong or muted contrast? What about shad­ows'? What is their function? (Clarifying form or space? Emphasizing mood?} 

8. 
Space: Is it shallow or deep? Is it open or screened off? What kind of perspective is offered? (Linear or aerial?} Is the main interest near or far? 

9. 
General Observations: How consistent is the structure of the whole? Does the work seem spontaneous or calculated? Does it seem carefully planned or improvised? How meaningful are the various formal elements and their orga­nization for -the interpretation of theme? How about for the conveyance of mood or for the creation of a sustained "visual" interest? Is the effect loud or intimate, monumental or trifling, solemn or gay, aesthetic or opulent, etc.? 

10. 
Closing Notes: Hemember in your observations to distinguish between the given "data" and your own associations. It is also important to consider alternate choices that the artist may have made. Compare a given work with others which are near, or which you remember, and try to articulate what makes it similar or different. Make sure to notice not only what is shown but also what is omitted. 


•NBA 

page 12 The Observer • SPORTS Wednesday, October 15, 1997 

Stockton to miss two months  Bird makes debut in  
By GREG BEACHAM but he could also have some organization later by getting Associated Press Writer permanent limitations," Mason some young guys more min­said. "We just have to wait and utes."  93-90 loss to Cavaliers  
SALT LAKE CITY see." The Jazz re-signed backup  Associated Press missed another shot before the  
The Utah Jazz are suddenly Stockton, in the second year point guard Howard Eisley dur­ Pacers got the rebound and  
an army without a general. of a three-year, $15 million ing the offseason. Eisley has  INDIANAPOLIS called a 20-second timeout.  
John Stockton, who has contract, has played 609 con­played in 147 consecutive  Fans got their first look at an During the timeout, Bird  
missed only four games during secutive regular-season games, games for Utah and will start in  irate Larry Bird as a coach protested to referee Joe Forte  
his entire NBA career, had the third longest active streak Stockton's place.  Tuesday night while his Indiana and as the two exchanged words  
knee surgery Monday night and behind Phoenix's A.C. Green "It's unfortunate. but we  Pacers were losing to the Mullin joined thnm and showed  
will be sidelined for the first six (696) and New Jersey's Michael must move on," Eisley said. "I  Cleveland Cavaliers 93-90 the officials a blood-soaked  
to eight weeks of the regular Cage (657). The career leader still have a lot of learning to do  Tuesday night. towel. He received four stitches  
season. He has played every is Randy Smith (906). during the preseason."  Bird became irate over a non­to the head but was able to  
game for seven straight sea­He has played in all 127 play­The Jazz also drafted Jacque  call and failure of the officials to return and play 11 minutes in  
sons. off games in Jazz history and Vaughn and intended to keep  halt play when Chris Mullin was the second half, finishing the  
"It's weird without Stock last season led the team to the three point guards on their ros­ injured with 4:20 left in the game with 12 points and six  
here," Karl Malone said at NBA Finals for the first time. ter.  opnning half. Mullin was hit on assists.  
practice Tuesday. "It's not "This is a terrible thing, but  the head as Danny Ferry Bird also expressed his dis­ 
going to be the same until he "It's too bad for John, but it at the same time it's an oppor­ attnmpted to block his drive to pleasure over thn officiating sev­ 
gets back." gives our young guys a chance tunity for me," Vaughn said. "I  the basket. The impact sent eral times in a game which had  
The 35-year-old star guard, to show what they can do," just want him on the bench to  Mullin to the floor and play con­Cleveland attempt 64 free  
the NBA career leader in Utah coach Jerry Sloan said. yell at me."  tinued as he l~d on the court throws as the Pacers were called  
assists and steals, had arthro­''I've seen organizations Stockton is the third big­ holding his head and bleeding. for 43 personals. Indiana shot  
scopic surgery on his left knee destroyed over situations like name player who will miss the  The Cavaliers got the ball, only 39 free throws as the  
to remove loose cartilage. this, but that won't happen to start of the season with a major  went to their nnd of the court, Cavaliers were called for 33  
Dr. Lyle Mason, the team's us." injury. Miami's Alonzo  missed a shot and Indiana fouls.  
orthopedic surgeon, said this "He told me last night, 'I'll Mourning (knee surgery) will  brought the ball down and Indiana's Fred Hoibnrg led all  
particular injury does not heal see you in two weeks,"' Malone be out eight to 12 weeks and  scored after Mullin had left the scorers with 17 points, making  
easily. said. "I told him to just sit Chicago's Scottie Pippen (foot  court and headed to the locker­6-of-8 shots. However, one on  
"It's possible he could return down. It's a great loss for us, surgery) will be out two to  room. Cleveland again moved his misses was a 3-point attempt  
to 100 percent effectiveness, but this will definitely help the three months.  the ball down to its end and as time expired.  

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day clas­
sifieds is 3p.m. All classilleds must be prepaid. The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifleds for content without issuing refunds. 
Classifieds 

.___N_O_T_IC_E_s_ __..l 000 THE COPY SHOP 000 LaFortune Student Center  ~-'_F_O_R_RE_N_T_---1 BULLA RD. MCKINLEY TERRACE. SWANSON PARK 3 BDRM  Stud Tix 4 USC/BC w/stud ID!!! $50 for both Call X1459 TICKETS  NOTRE DAME FOOTBALL TICKETS BUY -SELL -TRADE 232-0058  You know you want 'em! BC GA's -call4-1471 (B/0) PERSONAL  "Thank God I'm a Country Boy" Rest in Peace, John Denver... All of us here at the Neil Diamond Fan Club want to express our deep­est sympathies. You touched so many lives and helped so many  
Store Hours  HOMES, 1 & 2 BDRM DUPLEXS  CONFIDENTIAL  ADOPTION -LOOK NO FURTHER  hearts. Your life will never be for­ 
Mon.-Thur.: 7:30 a.m.-Midnight  ALSO. 2726551  I NEED GA TIXS ALL ND  TICKET-MART, INC.  A newspaper ad led me to DEBBIE  gotten.  
Fri.: 7:30 a.m.-7:00p.m.  HOME GAMES.272-6551  & MIKE 2 years ago & I chose them  "Take me Home Country Roads"  
Sat.: Noon-6:00p.m.  ROOMS IN PRIVATE HOME FOR  BUY/SELL ND SEASON AND INDI­ to adopt my baby. They're wonder­ 
Sun.: Noon-Midnight  FOOTBALL WEEKENDS AND  Student Ticket Book FOR SALE for  VIDUAL GAME TICKETS.  ful parents and I couldn't be happier  lets go jack 'the barbarian' barber  
(closed home football Sat's)  OTHER ND-SMC EVENTS.  all remaining home games.  674-7645.  with my choice. I'm thrilled that they  
Phone 631-COPY  VERY CLOSE TO CAMPUS -5  Best offer.  want to adopt again! They're fun.  HAPPY RON FIESTA WEEK!  
MIN. DRIVE OR 15-20 MIN. WALK.  Call 243-8409. Leave message.  ND FOOTBALL TICKETS  affectionate, professional, stable &  We love you Ron!  
GREAT RESUMES! Only 4 mi.  243-0658.  FOR SALE  easy to talk to. I'll gladly talk with  
from ND campus on U.S. 31/33.  Need BC GA's. Grandparents are  DAYTIME#: 232-2378  you too. (888)690-BABY or check  Adam, Jay, Matt and Ron,  
Call (616)684-4633.  THAT PRETTY PLACE. Bed and  coming in and will pay good money!  EVENING#: 288-2726  their web site at  Thanks for everything! Go  
ILOST & FOUND I  Breakfast Inn has space available for football/parent wknds. 5 Rooms with private baths, $70-$90,  Call Frank, 4-2340. Alumni needs 3 GA USC tixs. Call  ND TICKETS WANTED DAYTIME#: 232-2378  WWW.MEETUS.COM ARE YOU A VEGETARIAN?  Chaos Football! Love, Your Team  
Middlebury, 30 miles from campus.  Megan at 773-327-1480.  EVENING#: 288-2726  We need to hear from you!  Hey sleepy, miss your first class?  
would appreciate anyone who finds  Toll Road, Exit #107,  Join us for a focus group after  
keys to room 308 to call x1862  1-800-418-9487.  USC GA's needed DESPERATE­ FOR SALE  fall break to voice your opinions to  Meghan knows matrix vector  
If you find the little grit who stole  LY!!!!!!!!!  Notre Dame Food Services.  spaces  
them, you can also call x1862  FURNISHED HOMES GOOD  Call Colin at 288-2504  N.D. G.A.'S  Call the marketing office at 631­ 
AREA NORTH OF ND FOR NEXT  5589 for more information.  jon does not  
blue bookbag lost in bookstore  SCHOOL YEAR 277-3097  FOR SALE  271-9412.  
on 10/1. if found call steve at x­ 3 USC G.A.s  000 THE COPY SHOP 000  FALL BOXING TOURNAMENT  
2070. REWARD OFFERED!!  FOR SALE  $160 obo 284-5116  WANTED: 2 BC TIX. WILL TRADE FOR WVA GA'S OR CASH. CALL  LaFortune Student Center .J High-Speed Copies  Come watch your friends and room­mates fight it out in there debut box­ 
LOST: BLUE FOSSIL WATCH  JOHN AT  .J Canon Color Laser Copies  ing tournament.  
with leather band  Brass bed, queen size with orthope­ 2 BC GA's for sale  (415) 668-1391 BY 10/18.  .J Digital Color Printing  4:00 ACC in the boxing room  
call: john -4197 reward!! please!  dic mattress set and frame. New,  (757)671-1649  .J Binding & Laminating  Good Luck to All the Boxers!  
never used, still in plastic. $250.00.  USC .. BOSTON.. NAVY  .J Public Fax Service 631-FAX1  
LOST: key ring with TAZ key  219-862-2082  Call Peter  W.VA.GAs FOR SALE 272-7233  Phone 631-COPY  what's it like to get hit by a little  
chain. last seen on lakeside of  634-1579  guy?  
Bond Hall. please call Mike at  -89 Buick LeSabre,4D, 96K, V.  to all the boxing coaches:  
X3528  good, Clean,One owner, $4000  USC stud tix $30  GARTH BROOKS  thanks for whipping us into shape,  Kathy,  
Call:232-3707  287-9998  IN CHICAGO 272-7233...  making do us hundreds of pushups  You can be an honorary member of  
FOUND: keys, thurs nile @ senior  -91 Ford Taurus,HBack, 4d, 72K,  and situps, thousands of jumping  3C, even though you ARE a traitor.  
bar or coaches  One owner. V. clean, Call: 288­ USC student ticket for sale. x3476  I need 6 GA BC tickets! I'll take  jacks. thanks for weeks of sore  Enjoy blasting Paula and Jewel in  
call ann 273-9942  2808  as many as I can get! Please  muscles, tired arms, hurt jaws and  Tennessee. I will think of you next  
For Sale: 6 USC GAs. Call  call Amanda at 634-0831!  swollen hands.  time it rains! Love, Colleen  
WANTED  -86 Honda Prelude, 2D, V. Clean, V.G condition Just $1800. Call:  (800)808-2221 x254 (Rob W.)  FOR SALE:  hey wait. why are we thanking you? oh yeah, WE HAVE BODIES OF  Smoky-treats are cool.  
277-3254  ND vs. USC Tickets  STEEL.  
Gold!! Wanted reps., unlimited  -90 Honda Civic, V. Clean. Like  For Sale:  273-3911  We appreciate all of your hard work  Go Marlins!  
earning potential!!  new, 5spd, Low Milge, Just $3800,  2 BC student tickets  and time.  
616-461-6772.  Call: Hamad, 277-3254  (not GA's)  BC TIX For Sale (Best Offer)  Andrea Jordan s my hero.  
Earn MONEY and FREE TRIPS!!  91 Saturn SL2. V.G. condition,  call Jenny @ 687-8435...................  288-3975  canada here we come  joolie bean--he's NOT from min­ 
Absolute Best SPRING BREAK  call:631-7629.  ···usc···  i've been hit by a truck named psy­ nesota!  
Packages available!! INDIVIDU­ Stud-xchgd BC GA for sale or pre­ 2 GAs 4-SALE  cho  
ALS, student ORGANIZATIONS, or  GOV'T FORECLOSED homes from  fer trade for Navy stud/xchg Lezlie  1-77471eave offer  I luv u guys! U R the best.  
small GROUPS wanted!! Call  pennies on $1. Delinquent Tax,  x0555  matlab was created by satan to  
INTER-CAMPUS PROGRAMS at  Repo's. REO's. Your area. Toll Free  2 G.A.tickets For Sale USC, Navy,  punish me for my sins  Pop Tarts. Thev are, like, good, and  
1-800-327-6013 or  (1)800-218-9000 Ext. H-2013 for  USC Tix 4 sale, 4 GA's & 2Stu GA's  W. Virg.  stuff.  
http://www.icpt.com  current listings.  call 273-9608 leave b/o  Jeremy: 612-427-3444  why would anyone look that in  
depth into surface resistance prob­ -Uh, sir ... coJid you get your  
...EARN FREE TRIPS & CAsw··  SEIZED CARS from $175.  I need USC GAs!!!l!  USC STUDENT TIC  lem  stomach off my desk?  
CLASS TRAVEL needs students to  Porsches, Cadillacs, Chevys,  Call Mandy at 243-4783.  FOR SALE  -I hate you.  
promote Spring Break 1998! Sell 15  BMW's, Corvettes. Also Jeeps,  -john -4197  cal tech drinks from a fire hose  -See ya next week, son!  
trips & travel free! Highly motivated  4WD's. Your area. Toll Free 1-800­ I NEED 8 USC TIX  -Time for my weekly feigning of  
students can earn a free trip & over  218-9000 Ext. 2013 for current list­ 312-951-5008  stud GA for BC for $65 Call 44465  Have you turned  interest in you, son.  
$10,000! Choose Cancun.  ings.  in your  
Bahamas. Mazatlan, Jamaica or  Need two BC GA's  2 BC GA'S NEEDED  LONDON PROGRAM  Hardy,  
Florida! North America's largest stu­ For Sale:  x2721 -Eileen ·  call Jen @ X 0849  APPLICATION???  Morgs and I made a valiant effort to  
dent tour operator! Call Now! 1-800­ GUITAR  revive the tradition this weekend.  
838-6411  1988 Alvarez acoustic/electric  2 BC tickets for sale. $32 each  I need 2 USC GAs.  RESERVE COURT TIME AT  However, we just couldn't get it  
new $985  Don (310)334-5837  Call X3880  STEPAN  together enough to find the number.  
,.  ··spring Break.. ."Take 2" •• Hiring Reps! Sell15 .. Take 2 Free.  Sell for $450 OBO Call X1459  Two USC GA'S For SALE.  for your club or organization. Wednesday, Oct. 15, 4pm  Next weekend?  
Hot destinations! Free Parties,  Call Brett at x3361.  CHEAP!  Montgomery Theatre, LaFortune.  Christine,  
Eats. Drinks. SunSplash 1-800-426­ For Sale:  1 USC student ticket for sale  Call Student Activities, 6912  Would you please read Gen. 38:3­ 
771 O/www.sunsplashtours.com  Mac 520 Powerbook w/ color  MARRIED STD TKTS  (notGA)  if you have questions.  10 and get back to me? Just want­ 
printer. 12MB Ram  271-7042  call Jenny @ 687-8435  ed to know you're opinion.  
WANTED-VOLUNTEER  1 semester use  Good luck PANTHER! We love  
Girls Volleyball Coach  New over $2500  WANTED N D G A'S  you!  Back to the Bluegrass in five days!  
7th & 8th Grade  sell for $1500 OBO  TO ALL HOME GAMES  -The Swedish Bikini Team  
Our Lady of Hungary School  Call X1459  271 1526  2 BC student tix  2 N-S Stanford sucks at football.  
South Bend  for sale (cheap)  If you're going down the wrong  
Need own transportation  NEED WV Tix a.s.a.p.  2 stud tix for sale. all home games.  call Jenny @ 687-8435  path, don't worry. God allows U­ Matt Heather is my hero.  
Contact Sue Mason 289-3272  Call Chris 4-2220  Call4-3313  turns.  Hi Muttsy.  

page 13

Wednesday, October 15, 1997 
.NLCS 
Marlins 
By STEVEN WINE 
Associated Press Wriret 
ATLANTA 

When the national anthem playe.d Tuesday night, Jim Leyland stood with his hand on his chest as if braced for heartache. He had been here befor~. next to the dugout rail in Atlanta, one step from the World Series. 
Then the song ended, and Leyland put his cap on and went to work. Three hours later, he and his players leaped over that final dugout step and ran onto the field as National League champions. 
The Florida Marlins made it to the World Series by beating the Atlanta Braves 7-4 to win the NL championship series four games to two. After 33 years in professional base­ball, including 12 as a manager, Leyland achieved the biggest victory of his career. 
'Tm finally here," Leyland said. . \k 
Previously, Leyland was 0-3 in games when his team had a chance to win the pennant. Each loss came with the Pittsburgh Pirates, and came against the Braves and manager Bobby Cox. 
In 1991, the Pirates led the NLCS 3-2 but failed to score in the final two games. Five years ago Tuesday night, the Pirates led 2-0 in the ninth inning of Game 7, but a single by Francisco Cabrera sent Atlanta to the 1992 World Series. 
"Lord knows I've been on the other side of this thing -not on this field, but not very far from here," Leyland said, referring to the recently demolished Atlanta-Fulton County Stadium. 
At age 52, Leyland finally figured out how to beat the Braves. It took a move to Miami and an· $89 million spending spree by Marlins owner Wayne Huizenga to do it. 
Leyland was Huizenga's most crucial offseason acquisition, a proven manager to mold a team of high-priced hired hands. The formet minor-league catcher with a .222 career average turned the Marlins into winners for the first time.·.. the five-year hi!~tory ofthe franchise. •· 
He may not be b~kfu 1998. Hu.izer1ga put the team up for sale in June, and payroll will likely be slashed during offseason. Budget cuts drove Leyland out of Pittsburgh, and they could drive 
him out of Miamt But there are still games to be won this year. 
Florida finished nintl games behind Atlanta during the regular season, then faced a wave of injuries and illness in the playoffs, includ­ing Leyland's own bout with walking pneumonia. His best pitcher contracted a viral infection, and his second-best pitcher went to the sidelines 

with a career-threatening torn rotator cuff. Leyland coaxed the Marlins 
through the adversity. A gaunt, .stoic chain-smoker, quick to curse and qUick to cry, he tookan assortment of pe alities -tempestuous Bobby Bo moody GarySheffield, sullen Devon White -and earned their respect. lri the end, the team of rented millionaires mirrored their manager's resiliency. 


His key decisions paid off Tuesday, as usual. Leyland had Jeff Conine sacrifice in the first inning, and the Marlins scored two more runs for a 4~0 lead;. Following an animated discussion in th~ dugout with Kevin Brown, Leyland reluctantly let his tiring ace face the top of the Braves order in the seventh. 
"I was probably going to take Brown out in the seventh ... but I left him in. He's my best, and I left him out there," Leyland said. . 
Brown said ha asked his manager to let him face "one hitter at a time." "I said if they get someone on, you can come get me," he said. 
The result was a 1-2-3 inning. Six outs later, the Marlins were headed back to Miami for the World Series. 
• WoMEN's GoLF 
-
Irish settle for eighth place despite King's strong effort 
Special to The Observer 

Senior co-captain Katie King's fifth­place finish was not enough to carry the Notre Dame women's golf team in final round action Sunday at the Kentucky Lady Kat Invitational, as the Irish slipped into eighth place among the 18-team field. 
King -who fired a Notre Dame record 71 in Friday's opening round -carded a 75 on Sunday to finish at 11-over par 227 and in a tie for fifth among the 96-player field, just three shots out of second. 
King, rebounding from an uncharac­teristic 265 effort at last week's Michigan Invitational, posted the third-best 54-hole score in the 10­year history of the Notre Dame women's golf program. 
Notre Dame's three-round total of 
943 bests the team 54-hole record set 
at the 1991-92 Michigan State 
Invitational (949). The Irish finished 
just a shot behind Arkansas, four 
shots behind the College of Charleston 
and eight behind fifth-place 
Vanderbilt. 

Penn State used a final-round 299 to 
vault over four teams into fourth place 
(922). 

Notre Dame stood tied for second 
after a school-record 302 in the first 
round, a score which stood up as the 
fourth-best of the tournament behind 
Michigan State's 300 in the first 
round, Penn State's 299 on Sunday 
and Kentucky's 298 in the second 
round. The Irish shot 320 on Saturday 
to slip into a tie with Arkansas for 
sixth heading into Sunday's action. 
King's 11-over total equals the sec­
ond-best finish to par in a 54-hole 
tournament by an Irish women's 
golfer, with her 10-over 229 at the 
1996-97 Illinois State Classic remain­
ing the Notre Dame record. 
ller record-setting 71 in the opening 
round equaled the second-best score 
among the 288 total individual rounds 
in the tournament. Michigan State's 
Kasey Gant shot a first-round 69 en 
route to medalist honors (222), while Purdue's Colleen Cashman shot 71 Friday before finishing in a four-way tie for second (224). Notre Dame senior co-captain Tracy Melby slipped to an 82 on Sunday to finish at 236, while sophomore Andrea Klee wrapped up a consistent 79-81-80/240 
tournament. 
Sophomore Beth Cooper again failed to find the formula of her opening­round 75, posting a second straight 84 on Sunday to finish at a disappointing 
243. 

Freshman Mary Klein's final-round 84 yielded a 249 total. Sunday's results leave King and Melby tied atop Notre Dame's career stroke average 
charts. 
Both players have played 78 career 
rounds and totaled 6,397 strokes for 
an 82.01 stroke average over the 
course of 31 career tournaments, well 
ahead of the existing Irish record 
(83.11, by Kathy Phares from 1989­
93). King entered the 1997-98 season 
10 shots ahead of Melby but finished 
one shot behind her fellow Irish co­
captain at the season-opening 
Michigan State Intercollegiate before 
finishing 18 shots behind Melby at 
Michigan. 
King has led the Irish in 12 career 
tournaments, second in the program's 
history behind Phares (17) and one 
better than Melby and Crissy Klein 
(1990-94). 
King has counted to Notre Dame's 
team score in 67 career rounds, mov­
ing past Phares (66) into third place 
all-time at Notre Dame behind sisters 
Julie {71, 1992-96) and Tracy Melby 
(70). King's percentage of rounds 
counted {.858) ranks fourth in Irish 
history behind Phares (.971), Tracy 
Melby (.897) and Wojnas (.881). 
King's fifth-place finish is the second 
best of her career, behind a runner­
up showing at the Illinois State Classic 
in the fall of 1996. 
Melby leads Notre Dame with an 
80.33 stroke average over nine rounds in the fall of 1997, followed by Klee (80.89}. King (81.44), Cooper (82.89) and Klein (84.22). 

We Feature

We Vacuum 
We Detail 
Quaker State

& Towel Dry 
While You Wait 
5406 N. Main • Mishawalm •271-7788 Tal{e Douglas East to Main Street 
Hours of Operation 8-7 M-Sat; 9-5 Sun 
r $3~ 600FF, 
CAR'NASH 

Good for any Extra Value Wash. Limit one coupon per vehicle per visit. May not be combined with any other offer. 
L _ :_x~r:;,s.}_ ~~9_! _ .J 
r $5~ 000-FF, 
DETAIL 

Good for any Extra Value Detail. Limit one coupon per vehicle per visit. May not be combined with any other offer. 
Expires I I 130197
L. _________.J 
i $3~ 60 -0F-Fi 
:LUBE:
I.I 
! 0·uAKER! 
! STATE. ! 
IGood for any Extra Value Lube. I 1 Limit one coupon per vehicle 1 1per visit. May not be combined 1 I with any other offer. Expires I 11/30/97
L---------.J 


\Zound 1 t7eginner£> Mondaif> &.r Wedne£>daif> 
4:1?-?:30 

1012q to 12/10 
. . ... . ...•$20 . . . . . . . . ..... 
\Zound 2 Mvanc.ed Tue£>daif> &.r 1hur£>daif> 
{p:30-1:4? 
I0/2S to 12/q 
$1? 
~ign-up£> 
begin 

-_.
1hur£>dai, Oc.tober l{p, S:OO am 
'5pace is \imited! 
C.ontad 1-')q(p') with ani questions. 

----~-------------~------~------------~­
page 14 The Observer • SPORTS Wednesday, October 15, 1997 
----------------------------------------~------------­
• WOMEN'S INTERHALl 

Badin picks up first victory, Chaos denied playoff berth 
..-------­
-
...­
By ANTHONY BIANCO Sports Writer 
Cavanaugh headed into Monday's game needing a win to secure a playoff spot. 
Badin, winless on the season, came into its last contest hop­ing to turn things around. 
The underdog Bullfrogs pre­vailed with a 12-6 win, ending any chance of a Chaos post sea­son. 
The scoring began with a Cavanaugh touchdown early in the first half. Quarterback Katie King connected with Allison Krilla on a deflected pass that fell into her hands. 
The Bullfrogs came back in 
Women's lnterhall Power Poll 
1. P.E. 5·0·0 2. Walsh 5·1·0 3. Breen·Phillips 3·0·3 
4. Lyons  4·1·1  
5. P.W.  3·1·1  
6. Lewis  3·2·0  
7. Off-Campus  2·3·1  
8. Cavanaugh  2·3·1  
9. McGlinn  2·3·0  
10. Badin  1·4·1  
11. Welsh  1·4·0  
12. Pangborn  1·4·0  
13. Farley  0·3·2  
14. Howard  0·3·2  

The Observer/Tom Roland 
the same half. Priscilla Clements hit an open Betsy Ca vo for 15 yards. She then carried the ball 50 yards to tie the game. 
Both teams' offenses played well in the game. Cavanaugh's captain Kristin Patrick com­mented, "We had a lot of drives that could have worked us to the end zone. Katie King con­nected often with Sarah Kaufman and Megan McNally." 
Fran Maloney, the Badin cap­tain, had similar praise for the Bullfrogs. 
"Our offense did a sensational job." she said. "Things came together when we needed them to. Basically, our offense stepped it up." 
The game was decided late in the second half by the Badin offense. On a quarterback draw, Clements capped its drive with a touchdown run from three yards out. The score gave them a 12-6 lead that they would carry to end the game and their season. 

Cavanaugh, 2-3-1, will miss the playoffs with the loss. Badin, finishing with a 1-4-1 record, came out with a more positive outlook. 
This game was the first time all season that the Bullfrogs got on the scoreboard. 
"This was the best way we could have ended the season," said Clements. "We havH gained the momentum and con­fidence that was lacking all season, that will hopefully carry over into next season." 
BP 13, Walsh 0 

ThH season culminated Monday night for the last two undefeated teams in the divi­sion. as BP and Walsh faced off in a gamH moved to Loftus because of a rain delay. 
The BanshHes of BP would come out with the victory, hold­ing on to their 3-0-3 undefeated record with a 13-0 win over Walsh's Wild Women. 
"Our secondary was burned on the first play," pointed out BP quarterback Katie Meehan. "They took advantage with a deep pass and drove upfield. But our defense stepped it up and turned things around." 
Walsh turned over the ball before they could score, paving the way for the first Banshee scoring drive. 
They quickly marched up the field with a couple of deep passes from Meehan. Co-cap­tain Natalie Kelley pulled in one catch on a long route to the right, capping the first drive with six points. The two-point conversion attempt was unsuc­cessful. kfleping it a six point game. 
"We played really well because we connected often with the receivers with the deep ball," said Meehan. 
The BP defense continued its domination, not allowing any opponent all season to get on the board. 
"Our offense wasn't execut­ing, our receivers couldn't get open," said Walsh cornerback Sara Morrill. 
Walsh had a chance to tie the 
JAZZMAN's 
NITE CLUB 
525 N. Hill Street 233-8505 THURSDAY COLLEGE NIGHTS OCTOBER 16™ FEATURING FLORIDA EVANS SHOW BAND & REVUE 
WITH GUEST BAND "BUTTERFLY EFFEt:T" 
Doors open 8:00 p.m. 21 and over with proper IDs $2.00 with Student 10 -$4.00 without Uniform Security Police -Lighted Parking 
"-UIIU.U!f I. UUI.~UU}'~~ 

TASHI STATION  Nov. 6TH  
SKALCOHOLIKS  Nov. 2PT  
TASHI STATION  Dec. 4TH  
233-8505  

Save $1.00 With This Ad Before 11:00 PM 
game as the second half came option to the right. Tight end sion despite the loss. to a close, but Morrill let a Megan Speaks caught the pass "The loss is good for the potential interception slip by. for the conversion, making the tPam," comments Morrill. "This Meehan would capitalize, run­score 13-0. was the last time we could 
ning in a touchdown with an Walsh (5-1-0), won its divi-afford one before the playoffs." 
PMC 
Portfolio Management Challenge 
• 
$2,000 in Prizes 

• 
Learn how to invest for your future in the stock market 

• 
Make trades using the internet, e-mail, or fax 

• 
Separate division for Freshmen and Sophomores 

• 
Attend one of our informational meetings on Oct. 27th & 


28th to learn more about our contest. Time and place of meetings will be announced in the Observer. 
BONUS Register now and receive a free booklet on how to invest. 
Pre-Register for your Convenience Name: Address: 
Phone: Year: E-Mail: 
Send to PMC, 302 Stanford Hall, Campus Mail with a $20 check for your registration fee made payable to NDCIBD. 

IDdustria.l-Progrsssivs -Rstro -A.ltsrDativsDaDotl 
lr1111 •dmiiiiDD w/111 v•lld ooll11111 ID ""prop11r ldiiDIIIIoiiiiDD 

Tickets available at~~ and HEARTlAND 
SISTER MACHINE GUN 
Tickets available at ~~ and HEARTLAND 
EVERY WEDNESDAY 
Snow Crab Legs, All-U-Can-Eat, just 15.95 9 oz. Top Sirloin Butt Steak & lib. of Snow Crab Legs, just 17.95 Open 5-lOpm Tues.-Thurs. & 5-llpm Fri. & Sat. Free Admission to Heartland with Dinner ~22 S. MICHIGAN· SOUTH BE,ND · (219) 234-5200 
Wednesday, October 15, 1997 
The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 15 

RecSports "Champion Student Award" recipients are selected by the Office of Recreational Sports. Honorees are chosen for their involvement in RecSports, including excellence in sportsmanship, leadership and participation. 

Christy Egart is a junior marketing major from Anoka, Minnesota. Christy's strong belief in the "sound mind, sound body" philosophy and subsequent dedication to her health and fitness, has made her the RecSports Champion student. Christy can be found in the Rockne weight room on a regular basis perfecting her body building techniques. To round out her fitness regimen, Christy also participates in aerobic fitness activities several days a week. Personally, Christy sees fitness as a way to push oneself both physically and mentally. In the future, Christy hope to utilize her marketing skills in the sport, health and fitness fields. 
Recipients receive ~~ merchandise from the 
..a 
VARSITY SHOP
......, 
"Specializing in Authentic Notre Dame Sportswear" 
(Joyce Center) 


alt It-
VARSITY SHOP 

"Specializing in Authentic 
Look for this award to appear in the Observer every other Wednesday. Students selected receive ~~ 
I'T'L....,.~~~....:. &'L
merchandise courtesy of \,&..--.. --.-....,..1--·-and the v;i?io; located on the second floor of the Joyce Center. The 
&'L
vi?io; 

is open Monday-Saturday 11 :OOam to 5:00pm and Sunday 1:OOpm to 4:00pm. (Phone: 631-8560). 
page 16 The Observer • SPORTS Wednesday, October 15, 1997
-
Special to The Observer 
• SAI!J!\lG 
The Irish sailing team has been breezing by the competi­tion this fall. The team has qualified for all three fall national championships after defeating 15 midwestern schools in recent district quali­fiers. 
In order to qualify for a national championship, a sailor must finish in first or second at district qualifiers. The Irish sailing team has qualified to attend all three fall national championships. 
Junior Stephanie Doyle has qualified to attend the women's single-handed nationals at the Coast Guard Academy in Connecticut. R.J. Wolney, Margaret Ruffing, and Paul Kaseburg have qualified to attend the sloop nationals in Santa Cruz, California. Junior Paul Kaseburg also made the men's single-handed nationals in Michigan. 
No other midwestern team has qualified for all three nationals this year, making Notre Dame's success even more impressive. In November, the Notre Dame sailors will compete against the best col­lege sailors in the country to claim the coveted national title. 
Stephanie Doyle earned first

·-
place at the women's Midwest qualifiers held at the University of Wisconsin on Sept. 20-21. Fifteen girls competed in Tech dinghies in difficult wind condi­tions. Doyle won five of the twelve races in heavy winds on Saturday, and she won the final race on Sunday. That helped to solidify Notre Dame's num­ber one women's sailing rank­ing in the midwest for the sec­ond year in a row. Doyle was ranked sixth in the country last year and is opti­mistic about her chances to do well this year. She will sail a single person Laser Radial at the Coast Guard Academy in three weeks in hopes of giving the Irish their first ever nation­al women's title. 
R.J. Wolney, Margaret Ruffing, and Paul Kaseburg also faced trying wind condi­tions at their district regatta on Sept. 27-28. Sloops qualifiers were held at the Detroit Yacht Club in Flying Scots. The regat­ta was sailed in a river with a strong current and complicated wind patterns. 
The team started the final day of racing in sixth place. Wolney, Kaseburg, and Hulling skillfully defeated Purdue in tlw final four races of Sunday, cap­turing second place. All three sailors used their extensive sailing experience to maneuver past their competition and crush an 18-point deficit that would have kept them out of nationals qualification. 

Wolney began his sailing career at Notre Dame with a bang, proving that he will be a force to be reckoned with over the next four years. 
Ruffing was another key com­ponent to the trio's come from behind victory. Ruffing execut­ed the operation of the spin­naker beautifully, allowing the Irish to capture second place and a spot at nationals. 
Skipper Paul Kaseburg capped off the team's most suc­cessful fall ever with a win at the men's single-handed quali­fier at Wisconsin. Kaseburg defeated 16 other sailors to earn the right to compete against some of the fastest Laser sailors in the country at Western Michigan. 
The regatta was sailed in medium to heavy winds which was perfect for Kaseburg, who sails particularly fast in stronger wind. Kaseburg is a former youth champion in wind surfing who is sponsored by several prestigious sailing com­panies. 
The Irish sailing team is on a mission to bring Notre Dame back to its glory days of the 1960-70s. In the past, Notre Dame sailing has been home to a college sailor of the year and several all-Americans. 
The team hopes to have at least two all-Americans in the next two years and maintain a successful "learn to sail pro­gram" that has taught hun­dreds of Notre Dame students how to sail. 
The team returned several talented members this year, including Lauren Mack, Becky Murray, Nate Sniadecki, Jeff Rauenhorst, and Ann Halloran. Freshmen Liz Brotz and Darren Madden also showed lots of promise. 
Team advisor Pat Leonardo is another key component in Notre Dame's rr.cent success. Leonardo maintains a key role as leader for the Irish. In thr. past four years, th11 racing team has traveled all over the country and even to Japan. 
Tho tPam is oxcited about its success and hopes to do well at nationals. The rejuvenation of Notre Dame's sailing as a 1 national threat is possible with­in tho next four yoars. Tho determination and talent of its mombers are leading the team onward to victory and back to its days of glory. 
Field Hockey -Practice will p.m. and Sundays from 10
· • SPORTS BRIEFS 

be on Mondays and a.m. to 1 p.m. Notre Dame Martial Arts Wednesdays from 9 to 10 p.m.Institute -Tae kwon do and in Loftus. Call Maureen at Men's basketball walk~on jujitsu practice for beginners x4281 or Stephanie at x2741 tryouts -Tryouts will be will take place from 4 to 6 with any questions. held on Monday and Tuesday, 
p.m. 
on Thursdays and 6 to 8 Oct. 27 & 28, from 7 to 8:30 

p.m. 
on Sundays In Room 218 Synchronized Swimming­p.m. in the Joyce Center. Rockne Memorial. All are wel­Practices are held on Mondays Candidates must attend both come. and Wednesdays from 8 to 10 sessions. 



Join bestselling author Jane Bryant Quinn, Sound Moneys Chris Farrell, Nobel laureate James Tobin, and other top financial experts for a lively informative look at personal investing. 
Tuesday, October 28, 1997, 2:45PM-4:30PM Center for Continuing Education's Auditorium (Space available on a first come basis) 
A University of Notre Dame Human Resources Employee and a TIM-CREF representative will be available to answer your specific questions following the teleconference. 


Wednesday, October 15, 1997 The Observer· SPORTS 
minutes remaining in the game.

W.Soccer ­

----­ 
-­---­--MORGAN STANLEY invites members of the Class of 1998 interested in career opportunities in Investment Banking to our presentation on Thursday, October 16, 1997 7:00p.m. Notre Dame Room LaFortune Student Center Reception to follow Morgan Stanley & Co. Incorporated 1585 Broadway, New York, NY 10036 www.ms.com Morgan Stanley is an Equal Opportunity Employer  
ATTENTION ALPP MAJORS THERE WILL BE AN IMPORT ANT MEETING FOR ALL ALPP STUDENTS THURSDAY, OCTOBER 16 in 210 DE BARTOLO HALL ACCORDING TO THE FOLLOWING SCHEDULE: SENIORS 4:30-5:00 JUNIORS 5:00-5:30 SOPHOMORES 5:30-6:00  

Notre Dame has now beaten continued from page 20 Wisconsin eight straight times 
since a 6-0 loss in 1989. The 

test to record her 11th win also marks the team's 
shutout. Beene is quickly 30th consecutive win against 
approaching Jen Renola's sea­Big Ten opponents, including 
son record of 13 and has low­three in 1997. 
ered her nation-leading goals The Irish now prepare for 
against average to 0.29. their final road game of the 
Notre Dame outshot regular season, a matchup Wisconsin 26-1, allowing its with Big East foe Syracuse on lone shot with less than three Sunday. 
.... SoccerSdedule  
Oct. 19  at Syracuse  Syracuse, NY  
Oct. 24  Seton Hall  Notre Dame, IN  
Oct. 26  Connecticut  Notre Dame, IN  
Oct. 31  Michigan  Notre Dame, IN  
Nov. 2  Providence  Notre Dame, IN  
Nov. 7-9  at BIG EAST  Piscataway, NJ  
Nov. 15-16  NCAA 1st Round  TBA  
Nov. 21-23  NCAA 2nd Round  TBA  
Nov. 28-30  NCAA 3rd Round  TBA  
Dec. 5  NCAA Semifinals  Greensboro, NC  
Dec.?  NCAA Finals  Greensboro, NC  

Irish 
continued from page 20 
Gallo and was able to manuev­er through the entire defense before beating Alexander. Savarino 
.------,---­scored his second goal of the game on a one-on­one with the keeper. 
He dribbled in from the side and was Turner able to slip a shot past the diving Alexander. 
Turner and Bocklage added one goal apiece to cap off the offensive fireworks for Notre Dame. 
The final four goals were all scored within a 10-minute span late in the second half. 
"We were forcing things a lit­tle too much in the first half. This could have been a carry­over from the Syracuse game in which we played well for 90 minutes and were unable to score," Berticelli commented. 
"We needed to relax, spread the field, and play our game. We are a good enough team that the goals will come. We do not need to force them." 
The offensive production for the Irish was tremendous against the Broncos. 
Notre Dame hopes to contin­ue its offensive output against Georgetown this weekend. The Hoyas are in first place in the Big East standings, and the Irish would love to gain some ground in hopes of a late sea­son run. 

VOLUME 3, NUMBER 3 ADVERTISEMENT 

l 1997 






Can you be a hero? Can you make a difference? NIKE P.L.A.Y.CORPS recruits and trains college students to coach in local youth leagues. After the season, coaches receive $500 towards their tuition. Email me at colleen.henshaw@nike.com for details. 


... .. 
n

18 
0 FooTBALLlV 
II VS. USC 
n 

STADIUM, NooN 
0..

MEN'S TENNISN 
ID AT ITA ALL AMERICAN CHAMP. 
..n 
.. ID 
Ill 

""" 
0

25 
:::J fOOTBALLiV WOMEN'S TENNISN 
Ill 

VS. BOSTON COLLEGE AT ALL AMERICAN 
.......

STADIUM ALL DAY 
WOMEN'S W/SWIMMING & 
< 
II

VOLLEYBALLiV DIVINGN 
<

AT SYRACUSE, 1:00 PM AT COLLEGIATE CLASSIC 
Ill..
6:00PM 
..VI 
'< 
....... 
n 
II 
n 
c 
D'" ....... 
-
II 
:::J
..
.. 
Ill 
3 c.. 
Ill 



THE GOAL OF THIS SPORTS1/2PAGE IS TO INFORM STUDENTS ABOUT SPORTS ON CAMPUS. NIKE DOES NOT SPONSOR ANY VARSI1Y, INTRAMURAL OR CLUB SPORTS ON THIS CAMPUS AND THIS PAGE DOES NOT IN ANY WAY IMPLY SUCH SPONSORSHIP 
~----~--~-------~ ---~ ~ -­
page 18 The Observer • SPORTS Wednesday, October 15, 1997 
-
• CROSS COUNTRY 

Men place fourth at Furman Invitational 
Women also put in strong performance 
By ERIK KUSHTO Sports Writer 
The men's and women's cross country teams put in solid performances this past weekend. placing fourth and 1 4 t h • respectively, at the Furman Invitational. 
The men garnered 185 points, finishing 
-'"--"'-A~r~c~e­ahead of four ranked teams and behind such talent­ed programs as Stanford, Colorado, and Wisconsin. The women finished 14th out of a field of 23. 
Junior Antonio Arce led the men's team, which placed four runners in the top 50. 
"The team performed really well," said Arce. "We came in with a need for a win after we lost to Eastern Michigan. We got out faster and got in better position. Everybody ran well." 

..__ Arce finished 19th overall with a time of 25:06. Also run­ning well for the Irish were freshman Ryan Shay, who fin­ished in 28th place with a time of 25:21. Senior all-American Jason Hexing came in third for the Irish and placed 37th in the meet with a time of 25:34, and junior Ryan Maxwell fin­ished 42nd with a time of 25:34. 
The Furman Invitational gave the cross country teams a taste of what to expect later on this season at the NCAA cham­pionships. 
"Stanford and Colorado were deeper than us, but Wisconsin was not too far away," said Arce. 
Based on the performance at the invitational, Arce expects big things as the season pro­gresses. 
"This past weekend, we showed that we can beat teams not in our district, and that is important to get an at­large bid [in the NCAA cham­pionships]. But our key con­cern is to defend as district champs and not have to wait for an at-large bid." 
The women's team struggled a bit on Saturday. Alison Klemmer was the first Irish runner to finish, placing 42nd with a time of 18:08. Sophomore all-American 
Joanna Deeter followed  in  
48th  place  with  a  time  of  
18:12.  

The cross country team returns to action on Friday at the Central Collegiate Championships in Ypsilanti, Mich. 

+ Campus Ministry This Week + 


...... 

OFFICE OF CAMPUS MINISTRY 
103 Hesburgh Library: 631-7800 112 Badin Hall: 631-5242 Basilica Offices: 631-8463 

Appalachian-Washington Diversity Seminars Send-off Mass 
Saturday, October 18, 10:00 pm, Stanford-Keenan Chapel Celebrant: Fr. Jim Lies, C.S.C. 
Freshmen Retreat #13, Nov.7-8 
Application forms for the retreat for residents of Badin, Keenan, Lewis, O'Neill, Pasquerilla East, St. Ed's, Siegfried, Walsh and Zahm are available through the rectors and at Campus Ministry at 103 Hesburgh Library. Deadline: October 30. Don't miss the sign-up! 
Notre Dame Encounter Retreat Sign-up for Retreat #48 (Nov. 14-16) 
Monday-Friday, October 13-17, 103 Hesburgh Library 

Wednesday, October 15, 1997 The Observer • TODAY page 19 

Join The Observer staff. 
HEY!! Do You Drink Because You Think There Is Nothing Else To Do?? Come On, Stretch Your Imagination And Be Creative. 

Jf 
Stop By The Office of Alcohol & Drug Education For A Free ·copy of You Too Can Have Fun In South Bend. This Book Contains Information On Over 380 Fun Places And 
.. 
Things To Do In Our Community. 

DAN SULLIVAN 

MOTHER GOOSE & GRIMM MIKE PETERS 

DILBERT 
SCOTT ADAMS 

STUDIES HAVE SHOWN 
TI-l AT'S WH'< THE 
'<E5 1 OUR FEES A-RE
i.

THA-T MONKE'1'5 CAN PICK 
DOGBERT MUTUAL FUND 
HIGH1 BUT I DON'T

STOCKS BETTER THAN 
EMPLOYS ONL'Y MONI<E'<S. 
:; 
APOLOGIZE FOR HIRING

MOST PROFt..SSIONALS. 
THE BEST. 

CROSSWORD ACROSS 29 Certain tennis 57 Longtime stroke welterweight
1 They sweep at boxing champ
33 L.A. suburb near Sherman 62 Crossword

the regatta 
5 Malay for "man" maker's canvasOaks10 Come to a-­64 Honored the35 Giraffe-like14 Unbending , flagruminants •15 Rhythmic 65 France's 194737Whetpattern in Literature 
poetry 38 Noted Italian 
Nobelist 16 Spindle religious 
66 Church section 17 Leaf projection 
philosopher 

67 The Velvet Fog 18 City near Boys 43 Advance 
68 Neck and neck Town 44--Beach, 69 Hammer's end 
19 Strike Calif. 
10 Alaska's North 

20 Oscar winner 
45 Former Bigfor "Jerry 
Apple mayor 
71 Let

Maguire" 48 Certain tide 23 Words to no 49 Author LeShan DOWN
one in particular 52 John-­
24 Star Wars 1 Garage squirterprogram: Abbr. 53 Help-wanted 
2 Stir 25 Bluesman -­abbr. 
3 Pop singerMahal 55 Exclusive, as Dupree 28 Born abroad circles 
4 Three-time Masters champ 5 Sequel to 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE "Typee" 6 San--, Italy 7 Not much 27Smokey-­4& Disney frame 56 African river 

8 Certain grape (Broadway hit 47 Boosts 58 Perfect placelocale)
sodas 49Salad 59 Fighting bull 30 Showoff
9 Like some ingredient so Gambol 31 Translucent
dames 50 Muffle 61 Nice notion 
gem
10 Requirement of 51 Burning with &2 Econ. statistic 32 Galileo, e.g.

Islam desire &3 TV actress

34--Pet
11 Sweat 
54 Laud Charlotte

(novelty item) 
-7--+--:=--+-:7+-:-f~!l f-=::+.+--FE-1 13 Seenic Scottish 
F+'-+-'+'0-1 12 Everyone 

35 "Horrors!" river 
3& Wise guy Answers to any three clues in this puzzle 21 Small lizard 38 Musher's need are available by touch-tone phone: 22 Ingredient in a 39 Kind of list 1-900-420-5656 (75¢ per minute). 
boomerang 40 Relax Annual subscriptions are available for the 8-:+~::-t.:-:--i 2& O'Neill's "-­41 Sine--non best of Sunday crosswords from the last Christie" 42 Free, as clothing 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
YOUR HOROSCOPE 
Aries: The Moon spends anoth­er day in Aries' house, throwing 
that inexorable tidal pull 
behind the Ram's headlong 
charge. Dare to risk it all today. 
Defeat is inconceivable. Taurus: Appearances matter 
today, but so do the currents 
that flow beneath them. Pay attention to your partner's 
mood. Some mysteries are 
meant to be unravelled slowly. Gemini: New ideas and new 
ways of expressing them are 
the currency of the moment. Self-promotion is favored today, as long as it doesn't hap· pen at a friend's expense. Your positive change could benefit everyone. Cancer: Thoughtless behavior is guaranteed to backfire today. 
Maintain your sense of deco­
rum even if it hurts. Unburden yourself to loved ones at the end of the day. Leo: Love finds its way into your world and lights up the day. Others may forgive you for acting a little too proud of yourself. Everyone can feel that this is a time of regeneration in your life. Virgo: You work best on your own today. Do not take chances with someone who has already proven himself unwor­thy of your trust. Instead of pointing a finger of blame, let the facts do the talking. Libra: When the Moon visits Aries' house, Venus is in an 
EUGENIA LAST "'L-. 
aggressive mood. You may find yourself forcing some aspect of a relationship. Whatever hap­pens, good or bad, remember that it is of your own making. Scorpio: Being greedy or stub­born will set you back today. Any conflict that you join will rapidly escalate into an ugly mess. A big, complex machine is useless without the crucial placement of small parts. Sagittarius: You find it impos­sible to stop telling jokes ,today. Your self-delight only increases when the world laughs with you. There is some· one out there who can't wait to get his or her hands on you. Capricorn: You feel drained by hard work and a crazy sched­ule. Spend some time with your family even if it simply means being a physical presence. Find a way to rejuvenate your ener­gy before it ebbs any further. Aquarius: Your idea may not be the one that is implement­ed, but your approach to mak­ing it work is truly original. You are far ahead of the curve today. Record your actions for those who are not yet here to witness them. Pisces: Being too gracious may obscure your motivation and make it easy for others to ignore your request. Asserting your needs does not necessarily mean that they will be met. Keep your own counsel today. 

"­

SPORTS 
• MEN's SoccER • WOMEN's SOCCER 
Irish score seven unanswered goals Grubb ties record as 
page 20 
• fOOTBALL 

Goodspeed to fill void in Irish linebacker corps 
By BETSY BAKER backer. Associate Sports Editor Goodspeed, who started the season as a fullback for the Irish, was origi­
Much of head coach Bob Davie and nally recruited as a linebacker but has the Notre Dame football team's task never seen the defensive sidn of the going into this week's game against ball at Notre Dame. Aftnr being side­Southern Cal lies in building upon last lined by a shoulder injury for the last week's 45-21 victory over Pittsburgh four weeks, Goodspeed's return has and carrying the momentum into been much-awaited by the Irish. but Saturday. the context of it remains an added sur­
However, there is an added element prise. when you put a first-year head coach The shift results from a shortage at and a relatively young football team up linebacker due to Ronnie Nicks' knee against one of the oldest and biggest injury against Pitt last week. Abovn college football programs in the all, Davie hopes that Goodspeed will nation. Combine that with the fact provide some big-game experiencn to that it is the first time the Irish have the inexperienced linebacker corps. returned home since going 1-2 on the "The thing I like about Joey road, and the team has quite a task Goodspeed -he has played in college ahead of it. games," Davie said. "He has started in 
Davie knows the challenge that lies college football games. lie knows 
ahead of his team and knows that what it takes to win in college football there will be some necessary adjust­games." ments to be made. It remains to be seen just how much, 
In addition to being undersized and if any, Goodspeed will be usnd as a inexperienced on defense, the Irish linebacker, but Davie remains confi­will be going up against a Trojan dent in the sophomore's ability. offensive line that averages 315 "If I had to guess right now, I would pounds across the front. say he could probably do it based on 
One of the major changes that will what I saw in high school, and just be made going into Saturday's contest how I see him carry himself on the will be not only the return of Joey football field," Davie said. Goodspeed into the lineup, but also the In addition to Goodspeed's return, shifting of him from offense to defense. the Irish will probably get linebacker Davie announced at his weekly press Bobbie Howard and defensive end conference yesterday that Goodspeed Corey Bennett back from injury. has received the high sign to begin Howard and Bennett's return could working out with the defense as a line-play a pivotal role in how the Irish Wednesday, October 15, 1997 
The Observer/Brandon Candura 
Sophomore Joey Goodspeed began working out with the linebackers on Monday. Goodspeed had been used as a fullback, but injury on defense called for the shift. 
defense adjusts to the Trojans' sizn on victory. the line and experienee at reeeivers. · Davie is not concerned about the 
The looming question, however, focus, however, because of all the remains how Davie will lead the team other areas of concern for the Irish. in his first contest against USC as a "I think it is pretty easy !staying head coach. focused) because we have got so many 
An added incentive for victory lies in other things to address as a team," the fact that the Irish quarterback Davie said. "You know, if we want to eoaeh Mike Sanford is the former enjoy the feeling we had coming back assistant head coach of the Trojans. on Saturday night after that game, we Still, it will be imperative for Davie to have got an awful lot of improvement make sure that the team stays focused to do, so I really don't think that is a if it plans to walk off the field with a problem." 
By DAN LUZIETTI and TOM STUDEBAKER Sports Writers 

The Notre Dame men's soccer team defeated the Western Michigan Broncos 7-1 last night at Alumni Field. It was a tale of two halves for the Irish. 
The first half was one of frustration for Notre Dame. Western Michigan jumped out to a 1-0 lead on a goal by senior forward Phil Rosendall just under three minutes into the game. The Irish were out of sync for the better part of the first half and were unable to put much pressure on Bronco goalie Andrew Alexander. 
"We were obviously frustrated in the first half, and our play showed that," said head coach Mike Berticelli. "We knew that we were capable of playing much better than we were in the first half." 
The second half was one of the best offensive halves in recent Notre Dame soccer history. The Irish dominated the second half, scoring seven unanswered goals while outshooting the Broncos 17-5 in the half and 24-7 in the game. 
After the frustrating first half, it did not take long for the Irish to turn it around in the second half. Junior Ben Bocklage put Notre Dame on the scoreboard just 18 seconds into the half. It was Bocklage's second goal of the year. 
Five minutes later, senior Bill Savarino scored the second goal of the game for the Irish. Quite possibly one of the best goals of the season, Savarino dribbled into the Bronc(i zone and blasted a shot from 25 yards out. This goal opened the floodgates, and the rout began. 
Sophomore Andrew Aris put the Irish up 3-1 with his third goal of the season. Aris received the ball around the top of the penalty box and 
VS. USC, 

at St. Cloud State, 
• October 18, 2:30 p.m. 
.~.

~ October 17,7 p.m. 
:t ..,.

111i'~ at Syracuse, 
Notre DaiDe prevails 
Irish offense 

The Observer/John CTaily Sophomore defender Alan Woods heads the ball to his teammate, clearing the zone for the Irish. ND pre­vailed 7-1, shuting out the Broncos in the second half. 
dribbled around one defender before putting it past Alexander. 
Senior co-eaptain Hyan Turner was tho next to score. Turner collected a pass from senior Joe 
see IRISH/ page 17 
explodes in 10-0 victory 
By ALLISON KRILLA Sports Writer 
A balaneed attack is key to the success of any team, espe­cially a team with national championship aspirations. 
Yestflrday, the Irish women's soccer tnam gave a dink on the art of a balanced attaek, as eight Irish 


players net­Sobrero ted goals in a 10-0 victory over the Wisconsin Badgers in Madison. 
Notre Dame's second-rank11d squad built a 7-0 lead at half­time en route tq its highest goal total since a 10-1 win over Villanova on Nov. 3, 
1996. 

Defender Jenn Grubb led the Irish onslaught, dishing out 
Q) 
• Marlins win NLCS 

four assists in the first half and netting one goal in tlw second for a game-high six points. Grubb's four first half assists tied a Notre Dam(~ record. 
Notre Dame controlled the ball from the start, capturing a 3-0 advantage in the first I 0 minutes on goals from Shannon Boxx, Jenny 11oft, and Jenny Streiffer. 
Senior defender Katc> Sobrero took a feed from Grubb at the 18:49 mark and found the net for her first goal of the season. Iris Laneaster also netted her first goal of the year less than six minutes later to give Notre Dame a 5-0 lead. 
Freshmen Monica Gonzalez and Meotis Erikson got in on the action to close out the first half scoring for the visiting Irish. 
Both Streiffer and Gonzalez fired in their second goals of the game in the seeond half as the Blue and Gold upped its record to 13-0-1 on the year. 
Notre Dame's defensive anchor, goalkeeper LaKeysia Beene, made one save on tlw Badgers' only shot of tho con­
se~ W. SOCCER I page 17 
.. --~ 

at Central Collegiate, ~ 
see page 13
\~ October 19, 12 p.m. 
~ 

October 17, 4 p.m. ......
··-­

·:::W
.. 
vs. Georgetown, 

~.....·· Volleyball vs. Defiance ~ •BP, Badin claim victories for interhall
> ... M October 17, 7:30p.m. 
v~ 

College,
···~ see page 14 
vs. North Carolina, 

Today, 6:30p.m. 
October 17, 8 p.m. 

~ ~ 



