
Tuesday, AprilS, 1997 • Vol. XXX No. 119 THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
• BoARD or GovERNANCE 
SMC board formally recognizes 'The Alliance' 
By LORI ALLEN a founding member of the group. strives to provide a safe environ­out unbiased information to edu­apptoved club recognition at Saint Mary's Editor "The student voice will not only ment for those dealing with cate the members of BOG, in Saint Mary's College starting be heard by those present here issues dealing with sexuality. order for them to make an now, and continuing into the 
In a decision termed "histori­today, but will resound in the The group aims to provide stu·­informed decision on the ques­1997-98 academic year. cal," Saint Mary's College Board years to come. Tonight we made dents with a physical space with tion of official recognition of The "I feel very confident in the of Governance (BOG) granted history." a safe and welcoming atmos­Alliance. decision that the women of BOG recognition to a campus sexuali­Logged in the College history phere to hold discussions on The research team reported have made. I had this confidence ty group last night, after almost a books with official recognition as sexuality. answers to previous questions on even before I knew the result of month of deliberation. a campus organization is The The Alliance first proposed its campus ministry opinion, verifi­the vote because of the hard 
"Nothing in my experience at Alliance of Lesbian, Bisexual, constitution at the March 3 BOG cation of club adviser, Catholic work, long hours and research Saint Mary's has made me more Straight and Questioning Women meeting, and was tabled until the documents and the laity of the that was put into making this proud to be a member of a com­of Saint Mary's College. March 19 meeting. At this meet­Catholic community. decision. I have the utmost munity that truly pioneers Known by its common name, ing, BOG members formed an The board voted in favor of change," said senior Carol Jones, The Alliance, the organization internal research team to seek The Alliance's constitution and 
see ALLIANCE I page 6 

College Democrats plan.to educate 
Group targets revision of non-discrimination clause as top priority 
By DEREK BETCHER Associate News Editor 
WVFI-AM will announce Wedtiesday 

Twelve months ago the Office of 
that it is one step closer to joining the 
Student Affairs agreed to approach
FM radio band, according to a source Notre Dame's officers about consideringfamiliar with the station's push for the revising the University's non-discrimina­change in frequency status. 
tion clause to include sexual orientation. 
According to the source, members of 

A forum has been scheduled for 7 p.m. 
the campus radio station met last night tonight in the Center for Social Concerns with Patricia D'Hara, vice presi<Jent of 
to examine the issue. The College
Student Affairs, and learned that their Democrats now plan to spearhead a call application to join the FM band had for action. They say the goal of tonight's 
received initial approval froin'the forum is to educate the Notre Dame 
University. ,,... ·+iF · campus.
Federal CommunicationS CommiSsion "We're just trying to elicit a response.

approval also is required. 
First, we want to raise both awareness Reached by The Observer late<last and discussion around campus," said 
night, several station members conS!' 
J.P. Cooney, College Democrats co-presi­mended that vice president for Student tion last April 2. Recently, she reportedfirmed that an announcementwould be dent. 
Affairs Patricia O'Hara raise the ques­that she has met the recommendationmade Wednesday. They couldnot 
Last Spring, the Ad Hoc Committee on tion of revision to the University's offi­Gay and Lesbian Student Needs recom­
cers. O'Hara accepted the recommenda­
see ~l{tpage4 .. 
see FORUM/ page 6 




• CmME BEAT 


0-C students witness drug bust on front lawn 
By HEATHER COCKS 
News Editor 
A high-speed car chase by the St. Joseph's County Police Department resulted in the arrest of an armed suspect yes­terday outside a block of resi­dences occupied entirely by Notre Dame students. 
"We were getting into our cars to go to class, and there was a huge drug bust happen­ing practically on our front steps," said senior-Gwen Norgle. 
Robert Harris was found in possession of over 40 pounds of marijuana, three guns, including a .357 Magnum, and $1,125 in cash, according to police sources. They reported that Harris lives on N. St. Louis Street, another area in which several Notre Dame students are currently located. 
A chase began in the Roseland area after hotel maids discovered illicit sub­stances and firearms in a room reserved in Harris' name. The suspect fled when police arrived to conduct a search, speeding toward South Bend while discarding the drugs and two guns through the car win­dow. 

Russell Williams, a senior at Notre Dame, recalled hearing the sirens at approximately noon, as pursuit of Harris con­tinued toward his house in the 100 block of N. St. Peter's Street. 
"The sirens got really close, and I heard a huge commotion outside the house," Williams 
see HARRIS I page 4 
Campus 

Residence of Suspect 

:«.,.l)l:.,<·':>:'::> 
. ~: 
-~~ . 

-----------~~--------------------------------------, 
page 2 
• INSIDE COLUMN 


I dare you 
Apathy and cowardice. 
Laura PeteUe 
Are these the salient 
News Copy Editor 
features of the future leaders of our country? 
I'm sick to death of people who don't know or don't care what's going on. Har Homa? How does that affect me? Women in the priesthood? Let them argue about it. Welfare reform? I don't really know anything about it. 
That's the chorus: I don't know and I don't care -it has no immediacy to my life. 
But it does: will you care if the U.S. joins a war of intervention? If there are no priests available to baptize your child? If you-or someone you love-goes on welfare? Then what will you do? 
You'll complain. It's what you do best. 
You'll blame it on someone else. You'll blame it on the politicians -when you never voted in the election. You'll blame it on the Pope. You'll blame it on everybody and anybody but your­self. 
But you are the one at fault. Because you never cared to inform yourself and you were too afraid to take an informed stand. 
These aren't far-distant problems. The "real world" is fast approaching, as any senior will tell you, and the real world will begin ~o affect each and every one of you, if it hasn't already. 
Have you taken a stand on anything? Or are you afraid that you'll be labeled a geek, a prude, or -horror of horrors -an activist? 
Taking a stand isn't always a popular thing to do -it takes courage to put your personal convictions out where anyone can attack them and you. But you never have to be afraid to speak ifyou speak the truth, and you'll never be ashamed of that truth as long as you act on your convictions. 
We're blessed. We have at our disposal hun­dreds of opportunities for service -but service without knowledge does little good. Each and every one of us will be called upon to make ethical decisions -ethical decisions that can not be made if one is uninformed. 
Beyond that, it is your right as a citizen of a democratic society to have free access to the news. But it is also your responsibility to use that access. The strength of a democracy lies in an educated electorate, an electorate that knows the issues and votes accordingly. 
You want a stand? Here's my stand: 
I don't believe in abortion. I don't believe in capital punishment. I don't believe in casual sex. I refuse to condemn homosexuals. I don't think binge drinking constitutes a social life. I believe in God. I like my parents. I believe in the ordination of women as Catholic priests. 
I'm taking a stand. I'm letting my voice be heard. I'm informing myself and making deci­sions that my conscience can live with. 
I could complain. I could blame. But instead I'm learning, not just knowledge but compas­sion. 
Having convictions doesn't mean you have to scream them from the rooftops. It doesn't mean you have to join every service club on campus. What it means is that you have a base to work from, something to help you make decisions, and something to say when someone asks you, "What do I do?" 
And then some people will get involved. Some people will work for change. Many peo­ple on this campus already are: they should be our role models as individuals who are part of a Church, a country, and a world. 
It's hard work to support a conviction; it's a dangerous game to speak those convictions aloud. But as Dolores Ibarruri said, "It is better to die on your feet than to live on your knees." 
So I dare you: Be a voice. 
The views expressed in the Inside .Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
• TooAv's STAFF  
News  Accent  
Matt Loughran  Joey Crawford  
David Freddoso  Ashleigh Thompson  
Sports  Graphics  
Kevin Robinson  Peter Cilella  
Brian Reinrhaler  Production  
Viewpoint  Heather Cocks  
Bill Crawford  Chris Uharr  
Lab Tech  
Meghan Dooher  

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday chrough Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of rhe Associated Press. All reproduction rights an~ reserved. 
Tuesday, April 8, 1997
The Observer • INSIDE 

• WORlD AT A GLANCE 
Catholic church razed by arsonists in Northern Ireland 
BELFAST, Northern Ireland 

A rural Roman Catholic church was North Atlantic burned to the ground today in the third Ocean attack on a Catholic church in three days. 
The recent series of church burnings began two weekends ago when a Baptist church in east Belfast was badly dam­aged. Arson attacks were carried out on Protestant homes the following Tuesday in rural County Tyrone. 
Today, the Church of the Immaculate • Conception, near Tandragee, a predomi­nantly Protestant town, was already con­sumed by flame when fire crews arrived about 3 a.m. Tandragee, 40 miles south­west of Belfast, has strong connections to the Orange Order, the province's long-dominant Protestant fraternal group. 25 km 
Mass. Harper said he cried at the sight of the smoking ruins. 
"It's just a shell. The sacristy's walls are still standing but the roof has come in. Behind the altar there's a 'blackened cross," Harper said. "The people who did this-it was deliberate -have absolute­ly no conscience at all." 
On the Saturday following the attack on the Protestant homes, two Catholic churches in towns west of Belfast were set on fire; one was razed. 
The church burnings coincide with the approach of the summer "marching sea­son." Protestant-Catholic relations tradi­tionally deteriorate during the parades. 
For the past 30 weeks, a Protestant mob has menaced weekly services at a 
The area's Anglican minister, the Rev. ---------~~~-~w Catholic church in Ballymena, 20 miles Brian Harper, arrived at daybreak to comfort Catholic northwest of Belfast, to protest Catholic attempts to block parishioners who had come expecting to attend 9 a.m. Protestant marches. 
Gore celebrates gradual improvements 
BETHESDA, Md. 

No deed is too small to earn someone a pat on the back from Vice President AI Gore when it comes to improving gov­ernment. Decisions to recycle Marine uniforms, mount a safety campaign for New Jersey highway workers and even put a number on a federal building so people can find it are being praised by Gore as signs "the era of better.govern­


ment has begun." Gore, chief of the bureaucratic house­cleaning, gave a pep talk Monday to more than 600 fed­eral workers and private sector managers meeting to dis­cuss ways to make government more efficient. Claiming early success in the drive to answer phones faster, cut red tape and be polite, he said the effort to treat people like customers "will amaze the bench-warmers" who doubt it can be done. Most federal agencies set standards for customer service under the National Performance Review started early in the first Clinton-Gore administra­tion. By their own first accounting, they have made inroads in achieving public satisfaction. According to a customer survey by 150 agencies, previewed by Gore, the 
U.S. Customs Service has been answering all calls within a minute. 
McVeigh team discredits confessions 
DENVER 

Two prospective jurors in the Oklahoma City bombing trial Monday said they had heard a news report of Timothy McVeigh's purported confession, but dismissed it as unwor­thy of belief. "I kind of thought it was something made up," said a supermarket maintenance man. "I thought it was kind of hokey." Another candidate said all he could remem­ber was that it was "a story about a confession that wasn't true, or nobody knows whether it was made up." The responses related to a report in The Dallas Morning News' -first posted on its Internet site Feb. 28 -that McVeigh told his defense team he alone drove the truck in the bomb­ing, and decided on a daytime attack to ensure a "body count." The reports prompted a vigorous media response by McVeigh attorney Stephen Jones, who lashed out at the reporters and portrayed the alleged confession as a scripted ploy by the defense to try to get a witness to talk. The cam­paign obviously resonated with jurors -nearly all of those who have heard of the report have expressed doubts about it. And Jones even took another shot at the News. "As far as you know, the reporter for The Dallas Morning News is yelling down a rain barrel so he could hear himself talk?" 
Breweries come under fire for ads 
WASHINGTON 

The Federal Trade Commission has opened an inquiry into whether two major beer marketers -Miller Brewing Co. and Anheuser-Busch -aim advertising at underage drinkers, company officials said Monday. Both companies said they are cooperating with the agency, and one, Anheuser-Busch, issued a statement saying, "We do not target our advertising toward young people, period." Both Miller and Anheuser-Busch mounted ad campaigns last year on MTV, about half of whose audience is underage. Susan Henderson, a spokeswoman for Miller Brewing Co., said the company received an FTC request for information on media buying on .Jan. 14. "We are cooperating fully," she said. She said that Miller received an FTC letter, not a subpoena. Stephen Lambright, vice president and group executive of Anheuser-Busch Companies Inc., said the com­pany had not received any form of legal notification from the agency. Instead, he said, the brewer contacted the agency on its own and "volunteered to provide them infor­mation on our overall media buying practices." "The FTC took us up on our offer and those meetings have included discussions of the extensive efforts we make to ensure that our advertising appears in media specifically chosen to reach those adult drinkers who can legally purchase our products," Lambright said. 
Seattle, New Orleans papers win big 
NEW YORK 

Stories about dangers in the sea and in the air, about hopes and fears generated by new AIDS treatments, about abuses in federal housing for American Indians and in a ruthless regime in Afghanistan -all captured 1997 Pulitzer Prizes in journalism Monday. The Times­Picayune of New Orleans won two awards, including the public service prize for a series examining how overfish­ing and pollution are devastating the oceans. The Seattle Times also won two Pulitzers, journalism's most presti­gious prizes. An Associated Press photo of Hussian President Boris Yeltsin dancing at a rock concert while campaigning for re-election was among other winners. In the arts, jazz trumpeter Wynton Marsalis took the music prize for "Blood on the Fields," an epic composition on slavery. Frank McCourt took the prize for biography with "Angela's Ashes: A Memoir." The Times-Picayune's pub­lic service award was for a series titled "Oceans of Trouble." The national reporting prize went to The Wall Street Journal for coverage of the emergence of powerful new drugs that have proved surprisingly effective against AIDS. 
• SOUTH BE.NO WEATHER • NATIONAl WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forcast The AccuWeather®forecast for noon, Tuesday, April 8. 
AccuWeather® forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 


Thesday ~ ~0 28 
COLD WARM STATIONARY 
C 1997 AccuWeather, Inc. 
Pressure 

H L B ~ [TI) 0 . [ZJ 8 -!) ~ u 
HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT CLOUDY CLOUDY 
'"~~~~--·~h ....____ 

Arcola 35 24 Casper 35 11 Miami 81 70 Atlanta 68 42 Columbus 72 42 New York 54 42 Baltimore 60 37 Dallas 62 53 Phoenix 81 57 Bellingham 53 40 Denver 37 24 St. Louis 46 33 Chicago 40 24 Los Angeles 69 53 Traverse 38 20 

............... 



Tuesday, April 8, I 997 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS page 3 



Students: AIDS exhibit evokes heartbreak, hope 
By ALLISON KOENIG Assistant News Editor 
The faces belong to men, women and children. They come from every race, class and culture. They speak of spiri­tuality, careers, childhood, shock, mar­riage, strength and pain. They also speak about living with AIDS. 
Project Face to Face is a visiting exhi­bition composed of masks and words, which opened today in the LaFortune Ballroom. Taped interviews with each person are set up unde.r the mask dis­play, enabling an observer to look into a person's face while hearing their story. 
"Th.e stories are not just about AIDS. They're about the common bonds of being human. I don't think you'll hear any repeating stories in the exhibit," said Jason Dilley, the contributing artist 
All of the persons represented in the exhibit arc living with AIDS. Although the disease serves as the common 
Sophomore Pete Cesaro listens intently to the voice of an AIDS victim at the 'Face to Face' exhibit yesterday. 
thread for the exhibit, there is much to learn about besides the disease itself. 
Raul Gutierrez said. ing at the faces, but then looking away here and now. It requires us to ask,Notre Dame is one of 10 colleges and "AIDS needs to be exposed at Notre because it is so hard to bear," another 'How do I, as a viewer, think and feeluniversities that the project will visit Dame because ... it's one of those things stated. about it,' or 'Do I not want to thinkthis spring. "Many teenagers and young we don't talk about here," he continued. "I think that AIDS education and about it?" he concluded. 
adults haven't met or worked with peo­A comment board is available for warnings are starting to mean nothing Today at 2 p.m., Dilley will make aple with AIDS. Of the seven (Notre viewers to write personal reactions to to young people. What makes the mask of a community member's faceDame) volunteers who helped set up the the exhibit, and post for others to see. exhibit work is what we find in educa­who has AIDS. He will be demonstrating exhibit, none of them had ever met The reactions attest to the powerful tion: to change behavior, we must mask making techniques in LaFortunesomeone with AIDS. That's indicative of effect of the exhibition. change the feeling about the behavior. during the course of the week. Thewhy visiting colleges is so important," "It's amazing how this can break your The exhibit compels passion, empathy exhibit can be viewed today throughDilley said. 
heart, and give you hope at the same about what happens in this disease," Thursday from 11 a.m. to 4 p.m. and 7"I don't personally know anyone with time," read one anonymous note. "An Dilley said. p.m. to 9 p.m., and also Friday from 10AIDS, but now I feel as though I do. 
incredible idea -you find yourself star-"The exhibition really brings us to the a.m. to 12 p.m.
These arc actual people," freshman 
• SECURITY BEAT See you next year... 
FRIDAY, APRIL 4 6:32 p,m. A Flanner HalLresident 
reported the tht\1t of his bike frorn the 
10 a.m. A Zahm Hall resident reported Joyce Center. His l:ifke was loriked at 
the theft of his bookbag from the the time of the theft. 
LaFortune Student Center. The bag 
was left unattended at the time of the SATURDAY, APRIL·s 
theft. 
2:40 p.m. A Fischer Grad. resident 9:54 a.m. A Flenner Hall.re$ldet:t! reported the theft of his bookbag from reported the theft of.his l:iike from out~ Law School. The bookbag was left side the North Dining Hall. I-lls unattended at the time of the theft looked at thetim!l of the tlwft •...... · 
4:55 p.m. Security cited a South Bend c.g.12;24 p.m,.:•.••.,,.. -, .::-·-::o::-. resident for driving while intoxicated. Sreported 

MEET YOUR NEW RESEARCH ASSISTANT: 


''FirstSearch'' 
On Trial until Apri/30, 1997 
The University Libraries of Notre Dame invite you to search our newest online reference database, FirstSearch. 
FirstSearch is a collection of over 60 databases covering a wide range of academic disciplines. For example, with FirstSearch if your area is the sciences, BIOSIS, GenSci Abstracts, MEDLINE, GeoRef, GEOBASE, and EnvironmentS are just a few ofthe indexes that can assist you with your research. Search business and economic literature by using the EconLit Database or the ABIIINFORM, a major index for articles related to business. Dissertation Abstracts, FactSearch, a database to current statistics on a variety of topics, and databases in the areas ofthe arts and humanities are readily available. FirstSearch also gives you immediate access to the holdings of20,000 libraries worldwide via WorldCat. In addition, newspaper articles, general periodicals and some full-text materials can be accessed via FirstSearch. 
After trying FirstSearch, the Libraries would appreciate your comments in two areas: the coverage and content ofthe indexes and the access software and its features. Also, after the trial period the University Libraries may choose to subscribe to one or more of the 60 databases. FirstSearch and an e-mail link to enter your comments can be reached through the Libraries' homepage. 
The URL is: 

http://www .nd.edu/-ndlibs/iac.htm 
The Observer/Kevin Dalum Rob De Haan (center) and Melissa Falber presided over their last Graduate Student Council meeting last night. The new administra­tion holds its first meeting next month. 


University of Notre Dame Department of Music presents 
~benb-MUSIQVE 
Music FOR AscENSION AND PENTECOST 
9:30p.m. Wed., April9 Basilica of the Sacred Heart 


~rbola :Jflf(ustcorum 
Free and open to the public. 

page 4 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS Tuesday, April 8, 1997 

Recipients 
continued from page 1 

of engineering. A 1950 gradu­ate of Princeton, Billington has taught and conducted research at his alma mater since 1960 and has served as director of the Program in Architecture and Engineering since 1990. 
• Sister Rosemary Connelly, 
R.S.M .. executive director, Misericordia/Heart of Mercy Center, doctor of Laws. A mem­ber of the Religious Sisters of Mercy, Connelly directs both Misericordia and Heart of Mercy Center, Chicago area agencies that provide loving, challenging and dignified envi­ronments to more than 500 children and adults with men­tal and physical disabilities. A graduate of Saint Xavier's College of Chicago, she holds master's degrees in sociology and social work from St. Louis and Loyola Universities, respectively. She has received more than two dozen awards for humanitarian services. 
• 
Rita Dove, Commonwealth Professor of English. University of Virginia, doctor of letters. One of the nation's most highly regarded poets, Dove served as poet laureate of the United States from 1993-95 and won a Pulitzer Prize for leadership in the humanities from President and Mrs. Clinton in ceremonies earlier this year. 

• 
Roman Herzog, federal president of the Republic of Germany, doctor of laws. Herzog was elected Germany's seventh president at the May 1994 federal convention. He served from 1983-1994 as the German vice president, and went on as president of the Federal Constitutional Court. 

• 
Leon Lederman, director emeritus, Fermi National Accelerator Laboratory, and Pritzker Professor of Science, Illinois Institute of Technology, doctor Of science. An interna­tionally renowned physicist for more than 40 years, Lederman was awarded the 1988 Nobel Prize in Physics. 

• 
Cardinal Adam Maida, archbishop of Detroit, doctor of laws. Named archbishop of Detroit by Pope John Paul II in 1990 and elevated to cardinal four years later, Maida has spoken forcefully against racism and assisted suicide and in support of ecumenism and the rights of immigrants. 

• 
Arthur Martinez, chairman and CEO of Sears, Roebuck and Co., doctor of laws. Martinez was appointed the 12th chair­man of Sears in 1995, after serving the previous three years as chair and CEO of the company's retail division. 

• 
Barry Munitz, chancellor, California State University System, doctor of laws. As chief executive officer of the nation's largest senior system of public higher education, Munitz over­sees 23 campuses with 336,000 students and more than 33,000 faculty and staff. He is immedi­ate past chair of the American Council on Education and serves with Notre Dame's President, Father Edward Malloy, on the Business-Higher Education Forum and the board of Campus Compact. 

• 
Ara Parseghian, founder of the Ara Parseghian Medical Research Foundation and Notre Dame head football coach from 1964-74. doctor of laws. Parseghian has dedicated his life to the discovery of a cure for Niemann-Pick Type C dis­ease, a rare and fatal genetic disorder that struck three of his grandchildren, including Michael, who died March 24 at age nine. The foundation has raised some $5 million since 1994, and scientists supported 


by the funds are reportedly Norgle's roommate. Martha O'Rourke, contacted 
making rapid progress. Named campus security when she noticed the commotion

Harris

head coach in 1964, 
outside her home. "I wanted to know what theyParseghian restored Irish foot­continued from page I could do, as far as patrolling the area in future,"
ball to national prominence 
she said. 

and won two consensus nation­said. "Looking out the window, I saw a man in · "They LNotre Dame Security] told me they were al championships. 
plainclothes with a gun drawn. primarily concerned with the students on campus,
• Antonin Scalia, associate "It looked like he was about to shoot someone," and not as much with the off-campus residents." justice, U.S. Supreme Court, he added. 
O'Rourke explained. doctor of laws. Nominated to Williams and his roommate caught a brief Norgle expressed heightened concern about the the Supreme Court by glimpse of Harris' vehicle as it squeezed into a 10-situation. "I just feel that, since we are Notre Dame 
President Reagan, Scalia took meter wide space between his house and Norgle's. students, campus security should help a little ­the oath of office in 1986 after 
"He barely missed hitting the gas meter," better patrolling, plus more concern about the safe­sitting for five years on the U.S. 
Williams said. "That could've blown up both hous­ty of the areas where students live," she asserted. Court of Appeals for the District es." Noting the car's erratic path, Williams looked "We thought these areas were pretty safe,"of Columbia Circuit. His legal out the window and counted at least five police cars Norgle said. "First, my neighbors see people in career included his private following Harris. 
their back yard at night, then this drug bust hap­
practice in Cleveland, faculty "The guy jumped out of his car and just ran," pens.appointments at the University Williams recalled. "The cops ran after him, and "It makes us wonder if we're secure here at all,"of Virginia and Chicago Law they caught him a few blocks away." she added. Schools, and Georgetown and Stanford University Law deemed appropriate for the air­in the community," Flood said at Schools, and government ser­WVFI waves, including songs with the time. "We're shaking the 
vice as an assistant attorney offensive or degrading language. stereotype that we play music general in the Justice continued from page I If approved, the switch to FM that no one wants to hear." Department. would expand the station's lis­. This new policy, though 
• Ann Claire WiJ.Iiams, federal release any further details. tening area. The present AM recently finalized, has been judge, U.S. District Court for Switching to FM would be the current limits the station's reach developing on-air since January 
the Northern District of Illinois, culmination of a plan that began to the Notre Dame campus. 1996, Flood said. He could not be doctor of laws. A1975 graduate several years ago. In the fall of excluding Saint Mary's and the reached for comment last night. of the Notre Dame Law School, 1994, WVFI's staff renewed its South Bend community. Other developments at the sta­Williams has been a member of plan to attain FM status, a Approval from the University tion along the road to FM status the University's Board of process that included demon­also has required that the station included massive staff cuts in Trustees since 1988. Before her strating a professional commit­win greater support from student November 1995 that were 
appointment by President ment to the station. listeners. As recently as two designed to streamline the sta­Reagan to the federal bench in Those steps were designed to weeks ago, current station man­tion and bring greater communi­1985, she served as an assis­meet FCC standards, which ager Mike Flood announced cation and consistency among tant U.S. attor..ney in Chicago apply to FM stations but not to measures to give air time to co-workers. 
and as a trial and supervising those on the AM band. Becoming music that demographics prove WVFI officially filed its propos­attorney. an FM station would require is preferred by college students. al to move to an FM frequency in WVFI to avoid any material not "We want to be more inclusive March 1996. 

rtb 


APril 6 to APril 13 


Recycle on CamPus 
Call Sheila at 1-5615 (Building ServicesJ 
Volunteer to helP Recyclin' Irish APril 7-1 0 from 9-5 dailY 


Learn about ComPanies who Care 
at the 1st Annual Environmental Career Fair APril 1ofrom 12-4PM Center for Social Concerns 
Organized bY the Terra Club 
~~(.r 

o.,, .~
~\.'<·'"..~· ...

\::,.. -,:·. ~ Discuss Air Polution PolicY 
~\-. ~ with local officials and the Environmental Law SocietY 
~ 
APril 1 0 from 3-4:30PM room 121 law School


E..l~~ 
Clean uP CamPus 
esPeciallY around the lakes, with Irish Outdoors APril 12 from 12-1 PM Fieldhouse Mall
the squirrels and birds will thank You later 
Tl·e Que Sl·nd 0_ Dance from 1-5PM Field~ouse Mall 
-, • ~ CX"" .saturdaYt APnl 12 witb your friends and favorite camPus bands at the ShamROCK Greenfest rRecYclin' lrishJ 
Mass at 5PM The Grotto

Listen to Fr. Hesburgh 
SaturdaYt APril 12 

hear the call to be a steward for the earth. rSEAJ 
Join Irish Outdo?rS 
,..ake a H ,. ke

SundaYt APril 13 1~ 
in the sand at the Indiana Dunes State Park meet at 12Pm library Circle 

SPonsored BY the Environmental Coalition: RecYclin· Irish • Students for ResPonsible Business •Irish Outdoors Students for Environmental Action • Terra Club • Environmental Law SocietY 



Tuesday, April 8, 1997 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS page 5 
• RESIDENCE HAll ASSOCIATION 


Only three tickets run in hall officer election 
By P. COLLEEN NUGENT 
Saint Mary's News Writer 
Wednesday, the Saint Mary's College community will once again hold an election. This time, the College will elect its residence hall officers. 
LeMans and McCandless are the only residence halls with tickets running. "The other halls did not have any repre­sentatives at the mandatory meeting," said Barbara Nolan, the elections commissioner for the Residence Hall Association. · "But now the elections are closed and they will be reopened in the beginning of 1997-98 school year." 
Jenn Cervantes, Courtney Merris, Betsy Lamora and Johanna Tario comprise one of the tickets for LeMans Hall. With what they describe as tak­ing the annual activities and building on them with new ideas. the candidates believe that they are capable of improving the overall atmos­phere of Saint Mary's College. 
"We are looking forward to building on the old and incor­porating the new ideas," stated Merris. • 
Melanie Garman, Carin Hansen, and Jen Nelson and Shelly Richter, make up the other ticket for Lemans Hall. 
Hansen and Nelson, former residents of McCandless and LeMans Halls, have been involved with Hall council since their freshman year. 
"The incoming freshmen need to get involved through the activites that we have to offer," said Nelson. "A close family and residential environ­ment through everyone's par­ticipation is going to be one of our main goals." 
The tickets expressed ideas quite similar to those expressed by the ticket of Gina Gurreso, Kat Rademacher, Penelope Kistka and Sharis Long, who are running unop­posed in McCandless Hall. 


SMC grads discuss careers 
ByCARAFORD 
News Writer 
Three Saint Mary's graduates with majors in psychology returned to campus last night to participate in a panel discussion with current students. Rory Cavanaugh, Karen Genovese and Erin Kopfer discussed their current occupations and answered any questions regard­ing post-college career options. 
All three women stressed the importance of researching pos­sible job opportunities early on in order to lower the amount of stress involved in seeking employment. 
"Attending job fairs and researching possible job oppor­tunities is helpful," said Cavanaugh, a sales assistant. 
Kopfer said her internship at a local hospital gave her hands-on· experience and exposed her to several different career options. Kopfer currently works in Chicago as a recruiting adminis­trator. 
Kopfer believes her experi­ence at a women's college con­tributed to her success in the business world. "Being assertive is defmitely something you learn her~; whether you realize it or not. 


Genovese, a graduate student at the Illinois School of Professional Psychology, advised students interested in graduate school to research their options and talk to current students within their program of interest. 
"It is harder to talk to profes­sors in graduate school." she said. 

Genovese also offered person­al insight in balancing !)Chool­work. "Stressing out in under­grad is completely worthless-it doesn't get you anywhere. Just relax and have fun." 
Cavanaugh offered similar advice. "You really have to man­age your time well, but things have a way of working them­selves out." 
You HAVE A VOICE. 
viewpoint.l@nd.edu 


out for it ..... ANTOSTAL '97!! BACK TO 
THE 
BEGINNING 
If you're interested in.... 


Visual Basic, OLE, Active X, Visual C++, Custom Control Building, SQUODBC, M, QuakeC Client Server, or Web Programming 
... then we're interested in you. 
At Epic, we build some of the world's largest client server systems for healthcare. 
If you have a BS or better in Computer Science (or related field) with excellent grades, then send your resume to. 
Epic Systems 5301 Tokay Blvd. Madison, WI 53711 jobs@epicsys.com 
Epic has a no-smoking environment and is an Equal Opportunity Employer 
JPJPE The C\On.cenh&ti\On. in. JPhiR\OIWJP>hy9 JP\Oliitics9 and!. Ec\Onomics 
The Concentration in Philosop_hy, Politics, and Economics (PPE) is designed for undergraauates with special interests in the intersecting areas ofpolitical philosophy, political theory, and economic analysis. Many_ ofour students go on to careers in law, public policy, or the acaaemy. 
PPE has three main attractions: 
(1) 
PPE integrates different approaches to politics and justice in a way not usually possible merely with a second major (and also requires many fewer courses than a second major); 

(2) 
PPE students interact closely with faculty members, both in courses and in advising and conversation (the srudent/facurly ratio in PPE's seminars and colloquia is about 10:1); 

(3) 
PPE students develop an intellectual community among themselves, especially through the Justice Seminar, PPE's intensive gateway course. 


Every year about twenty highly motivated and talented students are admitted to PPE; check it out to see if it is for you. You can contact one of PPE's student con­
sultants for the insider view:  
Karla Arenas  4-4285  Arenas. 1 @nd.edu  
Michael Williams  288-0116  Williams.! 08@nd.edu  
Cristina Coronado  243-9172  Coronado. I @nd.edu  

You can also contact Professor David O'Connor at O'Connor.2@nd.edu, or Professor John Roos at Roos.l @nd.edu. 
APPLICATIONS and further information are available outside Professor O'Connor's office, 307 Decio. The application deadline is April 9. You may also apply electronically. Simply send Professor O'Connor an e-mail message, subject "PPE application," with the following information: name, address, telephone, e­mail, year you are in now, expected major, courses you have taken in philosophy, government, and economics, your GPA, and a statement of no more than 300 words of why you are interested in PPE and why PPE should be interested in you. Acceptances will be announced AprillO. 
page 6 

The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS Tuseday, April 8, 1997 

Lecture focuses on 'making love' 
the history of the revision process, why the revi­sions are necessary, why revision is a timely

Forum 

issue, and which legal and judicial issues under­



ij"QBSffi\iER-. -. -, 
lie the process. 
continued from page 1 
"We're going to try to keep this interactive and • • and that the issue currently remains under con­brief," said former College Democrats president fidential consideration. Catherine Mullaly. "We want people to ask ques­
I I
is now hiring for the following position: 

The deliberate pace of the proceedings has left tions; the goal is to get people to talk." 
some campus members dissatisfied. Last fall, assistant vice president for residence "Why has it taken a year?" planner Matt Dull life Bill-Kirk denied the College Democrats' • ILLUSTRATION EDITOR • asked. "For us, this is a question of 'Okay, this request to host a rally celebrating National has gone on long enough. At least we deserve a Coming Out Week. Organizers of tonight's meet­IIf interested, please submit a one-page statement I response." ing deny that their planning connects with last 
of interest and a brief (5-10 page) portfolio

"Basically, with the current clause, they're fall's events. 
• to The Observer office, •
saying it is just to discriminate," asserted "This is not stemming from any specilic past GLND/SMC co-president Sean Gallavan. issues," Mullaly asserted. 3rd floor LaFortune, College Democrats plans on using tonight's Also, revision of the non-discrimination clause 
by Thursday, April 10.

I I
meeting to present their demand for a progress should not be confused with past debates over 
update. recognition of GLND/SMC, planners stressed. • Applications should be addressed to Ed Leader. • Before opening the forum for audience discus­Tonight's forum will be the first in a series of sion, Allison Dobson and Cooney will first lay the three meetings which the members of the 
Questions? Call X4428. 

_j
background to the issue. The two will speak on College Democrats have planned. 
L 

·-·-·-·-·-· 

I I ~ 
I 
Alliance 
continued from page 1 
respect for the women of both 
organizations and I look forward to 
the future," said student body pres­
ident Jen Turbiak. 

The incoming student administra­
tion agrees. 

"I am pleased to see the hard work of the student leaders in BOG materialize in the decision. BOG took the time to research this topic thoroughly and I am certain that we made the proper decision," said student body president-elect Nikki Milos. 
Associate professor of religious studies and department chair Joe Incandela will assume the role of adviser to The Alliance. 
The organization's constitution also defined a board consisting of five women assuming the roles of Publicity Coordinator, Financial Coordinator, Correspondent, Group Facilitator, and Events Coordinator. 
According to the organization's mission statement, The Alliance looks to educate the larger campus communities on issues surrounding sexuality, create an open forum in which students freely and critically study the rich heritage of the Catholic tradition, raise the ques­tions necessary to develop a mature religious life, cultivate a community 
life which responds to the needs of 
women in a way that is dedicated to 
the personal and social growth and 
foster an appreciation of differ­
ences and acceptance of diversity. 
"Initially we saw a need for stu­dents to be educated regarding homosexuality, but because a huge part of the success revolved around women of diverse backgrounds coming together, we knew that our goals had to be expanded to include all issues surrounding sexuality, not just sexual identity," said Jones. 
The Alliance contains in its cone stitution a Policy of Non­Discrimination which seeks to set an example of acceptance, respect and inclusiveness for the Saint Mary's community. The organiza­tion and its officers shall not dis­criminate on the basis of race, color, religious beliefs, national ori­gin, gender, disability, polittcal affil­iation, or sexual orientation. 
The College's Board of Governance is the central student government organization which provides a forum for discussion of issues and policies that concern and affect students as well as the col­lege community. 
BOG seeks to actively facilitate communication between all aspects of the Saint Mary's community and to make formal recommendations regarding issues and policies of the College in accordance with the con­cern of the student body. 
ATTENTION GOVERNMENT MAJORS! 
Now is the time to apply for a fall 1997 Government Internship 
Interviews will be held April 8, 9, 10 217 O'Shaughnessy 
For more information call Carolina Arroyo, 631-8248 
The Hall Presidents Council is accepting applications for: 
HPC TREASURER 
HPC EXECUTIVE ASSISTANT CAMPUS-WIDE OLYMPIC CHAIRPERSON DATE WEEK CHAIRPERSON 
....•..••..•.............•.................... 
Applications may be picked up on the HPC desk in the Student Government Office. 
DuE DATE: APRIL 10, 1997 
By CHRIS SHIPLEY 
News Writer 
The physicality and spiritu­
ality of making love were con­
trasted last night in the second 
of a three-part discussion 
series entitled "Heclaiming 
Human Sexuality." The forum, 
presented by Campus 
Ministry, featured speakers 
Fran Ferder and John Heagle 
who reflected on the ways in 
which love can be expressed 
in a relationship. 
The panel focused its discus­sion on the ways in which making love can be expressed through friendship and hon­esty. Physical communication, the duo stressed, is not the only way in which two people can make love. 
"There is a lot more that goes into making love than just getting undressed, having sex, and having an orgasm," Ferder stressed to the audi­ence. "It is quite another thing to take your masks off, and let your guard down." 
Encouragement of commu­nication skills and the explo­ration of friendship ensure that one can become a "pro­
fessional listener," or one 
more in touch with their feel­
ings of intimacy, the speakers 
offered. Making love, the two 
said, is taking actions enabling 
relationships to grow. 
Intimacy, Ferder explained, is an action learned early in life, as our need for recogni­tion is something whieh all people struggle with as they develop. Interpersonal com­munication, or "psychological nakedness," can allow two individuals to become just as emotionally close as the act of sex itself, she said. 
"We must be in charge of our own self-disclosure. I can show you my body, but shar­ing my so.ul is a lot more demanding. We believe this makes the physical much more meaningful," Fender illustrated. 
Heagle invited the audience to recreate their sexuality as something more sacred and mysterious than a casual experience. The survival of marriages and culture depends upon society's ability to reclaim its sincerity, Heagle claimed. 
"We must see making love 

as more inclusive, profound 
and wide-sweeping than an 
act of sex," Heagle pointed 
out. 

The pair spent much of the 
evening challenging the ten­
dency of popular culture to 
reduce sexuality and the 
expression of love to the act of 
sex. 

"In our culture we arc con­stantly being told by the media and our culture that only casual, irresponsible sex is fun. Sally Jesse Raphael and all the others show us how starved we really are for inti­macy," Heagle said. "The gateway to loving is listening." 
Ferder and Heagle finally challenged the group to find new and creative expressions of love. 
"Ask yourself, '!low can I undress my heart?'" Ferder said. 
Monday nights' lecture was the second in Campus Ministry's three-part series on Keeping The Faith. The final installment, titled "Giving Life: Sexuality and Generativity," will be held in the Keenan­Stanford Chapel on Wednesday night at 7 p.m. 
In the winter of1978, this campus was a happy place. The Irish were National Champions. A Notre Dame senior was accepted and planning on attending law school tlwfollowingfall. Ryall accounts, hisJitture looh:ed bright. He was due to graduate from Notre Dame in May, and he was in lo·ve. The previous summer while employed at ct vacation resort, he had met Mark, afellorc employ­ee, and began what both hoped would be a permanent, loving relationship. In February, however, this young man with so nmch talent and potential chose to take his own life. His motivation for suicide was simple: he could not face the homophobia that permeated his world. No record ofthis senior's obituary has been fowul in The Observer archives. Mark's loving rela­tionship was not honored. 
Now, 19 years later, in an effort to "bring this tragedy 'home' with dignity and opti­mism," Mark Schubauer of Ester., Alaska has approached the ,Gay and Lesbian Alumni/ae of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College (GALA-ND/SMC) with an idea and an offer. Through his own generosity, which was matched in GALA-ND/SMC's 1996 annual fund drive, an endowed scholarship has been established in memory of Mark's loved one. 
Accordingly, GALA-SMC/SMC is pleased to announce that it is accepting applications for the First Annual GALA-ND/SMC Memorial Scholarship in honor of this deceased former student, as well as members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's Community lost to AIDS. This year's award consists of two $1, 500.00 grants to be presented to two gay, lesbian or bisexual students from Notre Dame and/or Saint Mary's College to honor leadership and to support the student's participation in a six-to-eight-week summer service project benefiting the gay, lesbian, and bisexual community. Projects at agencies providing services to individuals with HIV/AIDS or agencies providing services to gay and lesbian youth are encouraged. 
It is anticipated tl~at the scholarships will be personally conferred by Mark Schubnuer nnd representnti'Ves of GALA-ND/SMC this spring in South Rend. 
The deadline for applications is Tuesday, April 22, 1997. Guidelines and application forms may be obtained from the Center for Social Concerns at Notre Dame or by e-mail request from GALANDSMC@aol.com. 
The Gay and Lesbian Alumni!ae of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College is an -independent 501 (c)(3) charitable organization with no affiliation to either the University of Notre Dame or Saint Mary's College. The names of recipients of these scholarships will be kept confidential pending their consent. GALA­ND/SMC may be contacted for further information at GALANDSMC@aol.com or (612}221-9765. 

Tuesday, April 8, 1997 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS page 7 


Nanni extolls virtues of living in a community 
Don't get lost in a maze of requirements and endless fees. At NDFCU, we make it simple and affordable. 
JfACH Ent;LISH in ..", · 
EASTERN EC'ROPE
• N 0,FEE CHECKING 
PRAGUE • BUDAPEST • KRAKOW 

How would yo1.0. like to tlfSl(h basic -:onversational English in Eastern
• No MoNTHLY SERVICE CHARGE 
Europe? Our matenals profile manv rewarding teachbg opportunities with
' 
great benefits. For mfonnation, call: 

• No MINIMUM BALANCE REQUIRED 
(206) 971-3680 Ext. K55845 
We '~ ' ,_,rch • put>liltuns co. 

• No PER,CHECK CHARGE 
EMPLOYMENT IN AMERICA'S 
• 0VERDRAIT PROTECTION AVAILABLE NATIONAL PARKS 
Find out how to begin your job search in National Parks, Fo,.ts. and Wildl~e 
Preserves.
A Better Choice to Make 
(219) 239..6611 or (800) 522.. 6611 
Independent of the University 

r~ NOTRE DAME NCUA 
~.. FEDERAL CREDIT UNION 


By SARAH CORKREAN 
Saint Mary's News Editor 
For Lou Nanni, executive director of the South Bend Center for the Homeless, the key to building a meaningful community is to mend the torn fabric of society. 
As part of the Saint Mary's College Justice Education Conversation series address­ing whether it is still possible to live in community, Nanni explored the question based on his past experiences. 
"As true Christians, we must seek to bring together disparate groups in our soci­ety so that each can discover the dignity, worth, and God­given potential of each other to build a meaningful commu­nity," said Nanni. 
Nanni, an '84 Notre Dame graduate, joined the Holy Cross Associates in Chile after graduation. 
Along with five other Associates, the group lived in a home together and were forced to create their own community beside the greater community of the poor they served while in Chile. 
Web Address: 
WORK CATERING FOR GRADUATION 
May IO-r8 

• $6.75 per hour 
• 
Flexible Schedule 

• 
Free room I board 


Housing contract Deadline: April I oth Sign up: Monday -Saturday Io:oo am to s:oo pm Catering Employment Office SDH/ Lower level 
The group encountered some problems and disagree­ments while living in close quarters, Nanni said. But after they discussed together what annoyed each one of them, problems were resolved. 
"We were forced to come up with a list of people who were not contributing to the com­munity, and I was on every­one's list," laughed Nanni. 
"Living with the other Associates in Chile, I learned about my limitations which is critical to building an interde­pendency with others," he added. 
Reflecting on the experience and his attitude before his excursion in Chile, Nanni noted he had always thought community meant serving others. 
But through experiences over the years, Nanni has seen service as a stepping stone to building community. 
Most of Nanni's personal experiences where he has seen a community develop has been at the Center for the Homeless. 
He cited examples of guests 
.net 
COLLEGE OF SCIENCE DISTINGUISHED SCHOLAR LECTURE SERIES 

Quantum Mechanics and the Limits ofScientific Knowledge 

Dr. james Cushing Department ofPhysics 
April 8, 1997 7:30PM DeBartolo 131 
Christians they want to become," he added. 
Nanni noted that it is in the manner and attitude of the homeless that we are kept on track of not getting obsessed with material possessions. 
Referring to an example of community, Nanni recounted the time his father was strick­en with cancer in the hospital and a guest at the Center walked into his office and threw down an envelope and disappeared. 
Inside the envelope was a $20 bill and a small wrinkled postcard of an elf looking to the stars. 
The guest wrote on an attached note: "For all that you have done for me this is all I can give back. I have carried the post card for a long time on the street and I want to give it to you in your family's time of need." 
With a tear in his eye, Nanni said that such an action is a perfect example of community -someone who had absolutely nothing found a way to give a little commu­nity to others. 

who have so few material possessions and no family support. 
Often, he said, they are ter­ribly eager and zealous to participate in a community. The guests are overjoyed to just sit down and engage in conversation with others. 
hers at church for young peo­ple is discouraging," said Nanni. "What is encouraging is the growing sector of not­for-profit organizations where community members are finding citizenship by vol­unteering and serving on executive boards". 


LOOKING FOR A SIMPLER FINANCIAL CHOICE? 
Take the Direct Route with Direct Deposit and No..Fee Checking. 
"My critics may disagree with me, but the last thing the Center does is serve people," said Nanni. 
"The Center brings togeth­er individuals and families to overcome situations through community and volunteer support," he continued. 
Changing the focus of his discussion from the homeless community to the larger pub­lic community, Nanni believes we are losing our sense of community in today's society. 
"The low participation num­
"Participation may be low in some areas, but people are finding ways to volunteer in other areas of the community that are just as important," said junior Brenda Hoban. 
Nanni  believes  building  
community  is  a  two-step  
process.  

"The homeless need the community just as much as the community needs the homeless," said Nanni. 
"They need each other to help one another grow closer to God to become the type of 









VIEWPOINT 
page 8 Tuesday, April 8, 1997 
THE OBSERVER 
NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1997-98 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief 
Brad Prendergast 
Managing Editor Business Manager 
Jamie Heisler Tom Roland 
Assistant Managing Editor 
Maureen Hurley News Editor..... . ....... Heather Cocks Advenising Manager............................. Jed Peters Viewpoint Editor ..................... Dan Cichalski Ad Design Manager.........................Wendy Klare Sports Editor .................................. Mike Day Production Manager.... . ........... Mark DeBoy Accent Editor........................... Joey Crawford Systems Manager ....................... Michael Brouillet Saint Mary's Editor... . ............. Lori AJien Con<roller ............................................ Kyle Carlin Photo Ediror ........................... Katie Kroener 
Th~ Observer is the independent newspaper published by rhe students of rhe University ofNorre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect rhe policies of the administration ofeither insrirmion. The news is reponed as accurately and objecrivdy as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Ediror, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Sports Ediror, Accent Ediwr, Saint Mary's Editor, Pharo Editor, and Associate News Editor. Commenraries, leners and Inside Columns present the views of rhe authors, and nor neces­sarily chose of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available ro all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's community and to aH readers. The free expression of varying opinions chrough leccers is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 
Editor-in-Chief 631-4542 Business Office 631-5313 Managing Ediror/Viewpoinr 631-4541 Advertising 63!-6900/8840 News/Photo 631-5323 Systems 631-8839 Sporrs 631-4543 Office Manager 631-7471 Accent/Saint Mary's 631-4540 Fax 631-6927 Day Ediror/Producrion 631-5303 Viewpoint E-Mail Viewpoint.! @nd.edu General Information 631-7471 Ad E-Mail observer@darwin.cc.nd.edu 

QIJ\TE. FRAAK\Y THIS IS 
TH~ MC10T INCREDIBLY NW-lrt:J 5TRlKTURE FOR IMPL~M£NTING A HlSTORlC STRATEGY TO E.MR:>W~R YOUR 
A~O::>MINAL M\JOC.L~S 
AND PRioRITIZE NEW OPPJRTUNIT\~S FOR FL~TTE.R SlDOCHS 
AADA MORE. 

FLEX\BLE 

AMER\CA'
_,..,...~ 
• AND IN THIS CORNER ••. 

Comets and cults: nothing new under the sun 
• DOONESBURY 
THIS 8+ IS IAJ!(ON6, MANl 
YOU'RE P/5SIN' M/3 H&R/3 BIG T/M/3.1 
MR.511XUM, 
IMeR/3/..Y 
6AV8YOU 7H& GRAf?e. 
YOUtJE3­7£3R.V&V. 
""' 


Comets have throughout the course of Western civilization been considered in the Christian mind as harbingers of doom. The most famous comet in history, Halley's Comet, has been linked in partic­ular to comet sightings in 70 A.D., suppos­edly prophesying the destruction of Jerusalem, and in 1066 A.D., which William the Conqueror unscrupulously 

Matthew Apple 
used to predict his victory at the Battle of Hastings. The widespread panic in response to Halley's unusually bright appearance in the first half of the 20th century was the impetus for H.G. Wells' book "In the Days of the Comet" and the source of Mark Twain's deathbed remark that as he had come with the comet, so would he go. 
llale-Bopp's appearance in the north­western American sky has brought its share of self-fulfilling disaster in the past month, instigating the third mass suicide of members of the international Solar Temple cult, this time in Quebec, and now linked with the celebrated deaths of the 39 members of the Higher Source group. The mass suicide in San Diego has spawned endless television and internet coverage and renewed interest in mil­lenialism and cult death, as we all lean forward on the edge of our sofas to take in the morbid details. Cults abound throughout the United States and the rest of the world, but they receive little atten­tion until death attracts the media hounds. 
Cults are, of course, nothing new. Webster's defines a "cult" as any group which follows religious rituals that are not accepted by the orthodoxy; thus the word "cult" always carried negative overtones, and often leads those in the accepted reli­gions to consider cult members odd, extremist, or simply insane. Historically, all Christian societies have sheltered rem­nants of previous belief systems, whose adherents sometimes worshiped secretly, sometimes openly, always persecuted. 
The worship of the goddess Artemis or Diana in ancient Mediterranean civiliza­tion remained prevalent until the advent of Christianity, after which the goddess worship is referred to as the Cult of Diana. Many historians and anthropolo­gists see connections between the Cult of Diana and various forms of Mother Goddess or witchcraft belief. Outside the Mediterranean world in other parts of the world affected by Christianity, the ancient Irish claimed as their highest power the god Lugh, the light-bringer of the sun, the Scandinavian and Germanic tribes believed in Wotan or Odin, and various tribes of the Native Americans of Central America worshiped gods of the sun and sky in various animal forms, all beliefs now relegated to the status of myth or transformed into saintly cults by Homan Catholicism. 
But have religious cults become associ­ated with ritualistic death by suicide sole­ly because of 20th century media? Even the tendency of cults towards apocalyptic or post-apocalyptic fervor is not new, not even in American history. Several groups of the later half of the 19th century's "Great Awakening" predicted the end of the world on specific days, even changing the date twice when their predictions failed to come true. Time seems to have a great deal to do with the cult belief, the sense of change as promulgated by humanity's concept of time that ereates this irrational fervor or need to transcend the mundane. Apocalyptic views of the world aren't relegated solely to cults, however; Christianity itself contains the concept of the Second Coming, the Jewish tradition of Messianism. 
The cyclical renewal observed in natur­al phenomenon which is traditionally the basis for pagan cults and the concept of 
CAN'T 8£3, 
MAN! 
7HIS /!3 11/AYCH BA%' 
\ 
AS WAS YOUR E3N­T/1<13 ARSTPR{X}f5 INWHICH YOU 
Ha..t:J 7H!3 q]UA/?13 RfXJT OF !44 70 B/3 15. /T/5, IN FACT, 
!J.. -----­
/A/at., 5UR&, FROM A NAJ<J?OW, A850­WTIST, £UROC£N­
7RIC ffli?SP&CTIV~ A1LIY~ 17'5 12.. 
I 

the Christian Resurrection are not connected by coinci­dence. Until the days of the Emperor Constantine in the 4th century A.D., Christianity's early history, as celebrated and "llollywoodized" in fictional depictions of the Home of Nero, was as a religion under persecution. Persecution came to an end not because Constantine became Christian, but beeausfl of his Edict of Milan, passed in 313, which forbade persecution of any forms of monotheism. Constantine himself was not baptized a Christian until he lay on his deathbed; throughout his life, he reigned as the head priest of the state religion of Sol lnvictus, "the Invincible Sun," and in the interests of unifying the various faetions of his kingdom, Constantine deliberately blurred the differences between the three most popular monotheistic religions of Mithraism, Sol Invictus and Christianity. 
In fact, it was at the Council of Nicaea in 325, presided over by Constantine, that the Church fathers declared the divinity of the man known as Jesus, named Yeshua, or Joshua, in the Greek, deciding the spe­cific nature of his divinity by a vote. Constantine was acknowledged as the new Messiah, and upon the monarch's death, forged papers were produced which gave Christianity the status of ofli­cial state religion and the right to anoint 
-kings. Starting with the incorporation of the pagan religions of the Near East, up through the assimilation of the various pagan beliefs and iconography of Northern and Western Europe, Christianity today resembles more the pagan cults than it does its base in Judaism. 
But Christianity is· called a religion, not a mythology, and not a cult, because as a 
50 MY FASCINATING. CIJ!.-TURE awt.07H!5EE 7EACH!3.S ANAPVANC£1) JT'!315, CJV/UlATION~ 
MAN' \ \ 
system of beliefs even its various sects have essentially the same basic ortho­doxy, that of the Hesurreetion. Why, tlwn, is the majority of the Western World fas­cinated and repelled by the seemingly irrational beliefs of what we eall cults? Beliefs in UFOs, charismatic leaders who claim to be Christ, beliefs in the apoca­lypse, whether by divine or natural forces, if there is a difference, should come as no surprise to a devout Christian. A surface reading of' Christian scripture reveals all manner of' irrational images, including the most oft-quoted book of the Bible, Hevelations. Unless one interprets Christian roadings strictly symbolically, there seems no reason at all to believe what is written. 
A few weeks ago in a Time poll of approximately I ,000 Americans, over 80 percent or the respondents professed a belief in Heaven as a physical place, and about half believed Jesus physically died and returned from the grave. How differ­ent is that from the belief that an extraterrestrial object, hiding behind a natural object, will spirit away the souls of believers to an otherworldly paradise? 
Matthew Apple is a graduate student in the English Department. He can be con­tacted at mapple@skyenet.net or http://www.skyenet. net/-mapple. 

GARRY TRUDEAU 
• GUOTE OF THE DAY 
"To his dog, every man is Napoleon; hence, the constant popularity of 
dogs." 
-Anonymous 

~--------------------------~--------------------~.------------------------~------------------------­


VIEWPOINT

Tuesday, April 8, 1997 page 9 
• THE MIGHTY OAK 
Suburbia: Relentlessly venturing into the wild 
Adventurous outdoor recreation has become a rampant fad. It is politically correct and fashionable to engage in forms of outdoor recreation that go beyond traditional team sports -things such as mountain biking, rock climbing, whitewater rafting and so on. Everybody wants to be "extreme" this and "extreme" that in the quest for an adrenaline rush. 

Sean O'Connor 
One need only watch some shoe commer­cial to sec that such adventurous sport is what the media is presenting as the ulti­mate challenge, the coolest and the most individualistic. And this can be true, in the purest, distilled forms of such sports, when they are self-reliant and do not clash with the environment. But when the sports themselves damage the natural character of their setting, they become unethical and hypocritical. 
Some might say that they partake in such sport to be closer to nature, free of the comforts and constraints of civiliza­tion. But then they opt for a new road cut through a forest so it is easier to reach a prime rock climbing site. and they put in a parking lot nearby with r.v. hookups, and trample rare ferns that grow on the lip of the cliff. Or they take to their moun­tain bikes in unruly platoons and tear up trails. causing significant erosion prob­(()ms, thrashing down the herb layer of the forest and eventually ruining the qual­ity of the site. Are these people closer to nature? When they first get there, but not when they leave. 
As p(wple become more obsessed with this desire to be wild, the demand for the construction of new recreational sites and the reworking of old ones seems to have increased. But the development of an area for recreation often compromises the wilderness character of the site. Every part and parcel of land does not need to be developed. This includes partial devel­opment such as trail building which opens parkland to more recreational use. In the creation of a new park, some of the wild­ness of the place may be lost. 
To the relief of the sensible person, a nice stretch of woods might be acquired by the local conservation department, presumably saved from the cruel razor of the builder. But then the bulldozers move in under the unlikely banner of the con­servation department itself. They cut use­less loop roads, construct campgrounds with trailer hookups and rifle ranges, smooth out picnic areas, and build all manner of pavilions and parking lots to "improve access," taming a large portion of that which they would contend to keep wild. 
Better than an industrial park, but no longer wild nonetheless. Something of the character of the place is lost, some­thing of that rare commodity, that sense that one is standing in a place that is immune to time and always will be, a refuge from all that is angle-cut and ster­ilized. For even if all the works erected in that place should fall into ruin, and the trees return and grow up through the cracking pavement, the contour will still show a lingering artificiality and old bricks will remain in the ground. Hundreds of years later a keen-sighted person shuflling through the leaf-litter will know that place has been visited by our heavy hand. 
Probably most of the people who engage in outdoor adventure sports are from the suburbs, like myself. The sub­urbs are always on the march, swallow­ing more natural land or farmland, with the occasional handful of acres being set aside as a park for ballfields and picnics. I was pleased to return home for Easter and find useless wooded ridges near my house finally put to good measure, pared down into terraces and lined with tall, vinyl-dad homes in close array. Nothing left there to support the vermin and bugs that would make the people uncomfort­able. It was once pleasant to live where I live, with a few woodlots and natural veg­
• lETTER TO THE EDITOR 


Business cur.riciilum 
Deat Editor, 
I found J. Patrick Coolican 's letter of26 March 1997.~.·, ""' w ..... 
Not only is it a wonderful example of the naJrrow-miJadii'd :oN!dtitiice 
education is supposed to guard.against~ but..."' '-'.'""'1.\."J 
and unsubstantiated claims whose usage should 
writing-heavy liberal arts coprses th,at Cot>lh:;an 
America's assault on the human spirit? Grape Road 
Patrick, put down that copy of'fTbeSbrewtape Letters';amrJJ~il>rne uptior1tlirl' i'·''Nl! lt's time to stop hiding behind the liberala~dthink · cation is and what makes a person educated: The ili.Etl'k of:Letlut::atl~diritUvitdu:a!E;I' is not the list of books they've read. but rather · ly. There are many ways for students to reach a good selection of them at college, the basic m€,thtod<>10J!V lenged to develop and.the.rruse,ba1Sic Ski11sto -,c--.,~~·-~­formulate their own reli.Sone(:t what course of study .,~htrl••nt<:·· ,.. fundamental abilities 
At the same time, a few areas of ~<n•r""''"" human endeavor. In able to use their skills to le~·etttgera 1ndi:Jidirig aiCQU<i.iltta:tli deeper understanding in stealing corporate raider ophy, theology, scienco, options if and when the 
By the tone of G.oolicart'.$ . that isn't Vefy Well lln•rlAr'<Otnnd. suggest that a c six semester hours; what issues determine sQ\(j¢e;$$(>f(raJiltir institutions, and markets l.l•~·~~··~y~, ness majors find jobs, but an option on selves in that """'iti"'" they will have to to be appointed liberal education. 

etation left along the creeks, and the occasional turkey or bobwhite. There were small lots and small houses but something natural was left around them. There were no huge mountains to thun­der down from on motorbikes through fields of delicate wildflowers while screaming about a lack of fear or any­thing, but the quiet observer might spot a muskrat in the creek. 
The builders seem to be exercising greater economy in recent years. They have begun to tear down some of the ranch houses and replace them with four or five bigger houses shoehorned-in on the same lots. Another one just went, a fine little stone house on about two acres (a large lot) a few streets over. Across the front yard, five white oaks had been assembled in a stately procession. They were blessed with the pleasant, cured form that this tree attains when it grows in the open, and probably 100-150 years old-grand giants from another age. Of course they were felled with efficiency, and now the lot is bare, except for some damaged, spindly, second-growth weed­trees around the edges with their roots sheared away. (If I was planning to move into the new subdivision, I would rather have the builder take down these mortally wounded things as well, to save me the trouble later.) And in the ultimate act of gall, they have named the subdivision Sappington Oaks. Apparenily those who name subdivisions get some perverse delight in commemorating what they have destroyed, like warriors donning the shirts of the enemies they have killed. 
I guess this is what the buyers want­bigger houses at the expense of any sort of environs. Hopefully these are not the same people who, spurred on by a shoe commercial, take to the woods on the weekend and ruin what they go to see while waving some pseudo-philosophical, hypocritical slogan that makes it all sound cool. Maybe there are still a few home­buyers that would hedge on the 10 1/2 baths in exchange for a yard big enough for their dachshund, and who would then go to the woods on the weekend and qui­etly hike some trail and take things in without screaming about Mountain Dew 
• lETIER TO THE EDITOR 
adventure nonsense. 
The suburbs are beginning to resemble the thickest parts of the city with regard to the density of housing. It is too bad that some sort of program to rejuvenate areas of the city, restore old buildings that are antiquated but fundamentally solid, and keep people from evacuating to the former country and re-erecting the city there, cannot be implemented on a large scale. I guess the logistics of it would be quite difficult, but it is a shame to see fine old cities crumble and newer, less grand ones rise to ruin the woods that remain. 
There are local ordinances in a few places that require that 75 percent of the existing natural vegetation of a site be preserved when a new home is construct­ed. This plan is more expensive for the developer, but wiser. Wildlife habitat is preserved to a considerable degree and the aesthetics of the subdivisions are greatly enhanced. Green common spaces left at regular intervals (naturally vegetat­ed, not reduced to picnic area deserts), connected with corridors of natural vege­tation along streams, boost wildlife appeal. Such a development plan for future suburban areas would be a great boon to community life. 
When people who express some sort of idealistic desire for wildness -such as the participants of adventure sports ­check their behavior with some common­sense conservation ethic, ruination of nat­ural areas can be avoided. There is already enough destruction of the envi­ronment without need for that caused by the zealotry of those who would claim to love it. It would be prudent for those who say they quest for the wild and adventure to temper their sporting and make sure they preserve what they love. Maybe they could even contribute something back into wildlife conservation by enhancing the habitat of their own yards and push­ing for more responsible development, both of recreational parks and new sub­urban communities. Anything less would be uncivilized. 
Sean O'Connor is a senior Arts and Letters major. His column appears every other Tuesday . 




AIDS funding revisited 
Dear Editor, 

I usually try to read the articles in the Viewpoint section of The Observer with the appropriate grain of salt. Being in this section of the paper appears to mean these articles are the opinion of the author and need to have very little to do with the facts. Two recent articles have disturbed me enough to write in though. I'll focus on the article "Money corrupts; lots of money corrupts lots of people," written by Christopher Regan in the aptly titled column, "Often Wrong, But Never in Doubt," March 21, 1997. 
In Mr. Regan's book report on Duesberg's "Inventing the AIDS Virus," Regan com­pletely dismisses decades of research in several sub-categories of biological science. Such scientifically dubious statements like, "You get liver cancer because you drink too much or breast cancer because it runs in the family ... ," can be passed off as oversimplifying the facts to make a point. But the following excerpt clearly indicates his lack of even a basic understanding of what's going on in the body with respect to the immune system and the HIV virus: "The HIV test itself is an antibody test. They look for the antibodies -the thing that kills viruses -instead of the deadly AIDS virus itself. Why? They can't find any HIV, even in people with full-blown AIDS." 
To be.sure, HIV and AIDS is a poorly understood process. After all these decades of research dedicated to finding the "magic bullet" to cure cancer we haven't fig­ured that process out yet either. AIDS is a syndrome, at least he got the acronym correct, which causes the immune system of its victim to be unusually susceptible to disease. So much so that diseases, like pneumonia, which are most often curable can no longer be controlled in these patients. 
Let's try and get a few things straight for the time being. Scientists don't know everything. The most humble ones will happily tell you how little we as a society know about anything. But to categorize research scientists as a bunch of money­grubbing, amoral ego-maniacs is not only personally offensive, it is patently wrong. HIV and AIDS became the hot topic a few years ago, and I would agree that propor­tionately there is too much money spent on this one disease. But to imply that thou­sands of researchers the world over are hiding the "truth" because they'll lose their funding is ridiculous. For Mr. Regan to pretend to teach us the "truth" about AIDS from the writings of one or two dissenters is at best poor journalism and at worst dishonest. Learn both sides of the issue and perhaps some basics on virology before you attempt this again, Mr. Regan. 
Finally, to the editor. Notre Dame has a fine and rich tradition of housing and pro­ducing many respected scientists in a variety of fields. If The Observer wants to print articles about cloning, AIDS, cancer or other related topics there are far better sources than the "Arts and Letters" majors that generally appear in the Viewpoint page. 
MIKE BUENING Graduate Student Dept. of Chemistry and Biochemistry 

·-----~-----------------------""----: 
;ACCENT
page 10 Tuesday, April 8, 1997 
Seck hopes to INhen he invade 
By ASHLEIGH THOMPSON 
Associate Accent Editor 

0 
ne look at Beck llansen, and what you'll probably notice is a mop of light brown hair, big puppy dog eyes, and the gangly physique of an uncoordinated adolescent. One listen however, and you'll hear the winner of the Grammys for Best Alternative Music Performance and Best Male Rock Vocal Performance, Spin's Artist of the Year, and the man responsible for the platinum Odelay, Rolling Stone's Album of the Year. That's a lot of attention for a 26-year-old high school dropout from Los Angeles. 
Music critics around the world almost universally label him as the meaning of cool, while the industry dubs him the definitive pop-icon of the 20-something generation. 
So what is the appeal? 

Beck's sound seems about as ambiguous as the man him­self. An undefinable mixture of folk, hip-hop, rap and blues, the music seems to extend in every direction from some knowing center. The listener can never predict where Beck's music or lyrics will venture, but a trip through Odelay -Beck's fourth album -will be sure to keep the soul grooving and the mindwheel spin­
ning. While "Devil's Haircut" and "Where It's At" were early radio favorites, 
there is no one bad track on the album. Each has its own lla­vor, its own ideology. Any critic who labeled Beck a one-hit wonder after the 1993 release "Loser," should listen to Odelay and beg 
for absolution. 

A spokesperson from his label, Geffen, remarked of Beck in a recent 
Entertainment Weekly article, "What drives him crazy is 
people thinking of him as a goofball. lie's very serious 
about his music, but he thinks there's too much angst in 
rock. He'd rather entertain." 
And entertain he does. He currently linished touring with 
The Cardigans, and now totes both Germany's Atari 
Teenage Riot and The Roots along with him on this small 
venue tour. lie wants to get close to the fans. He wants to 
bring coolness to his generation, reviving the retro-cult 
energy that seems to be flowing more freely each time he 
wears a cowboy hat or makes another MTV video. 
But if one thing becomes apparent from following Beck's 
career and reading interview after interview -Beck is the 
media's underdog favorite -it's his frustration with banal 
lyrics, with being a slacker, with disposable culture, and 
the listener who doesn't really seem to listen. 
In this vein of sincerity and eloquence, Beck explains his 
views on image in the newest Holling Stone -the ono with 
his boyish face blazoned across the cover. "People have this 
conception that I put on different characters. But to me, 
there's a definite continuity in what I do. If thero wasn't, it 
wouldn't work." 
Beck certainly seems concerned with his image. but in 
the manner opposite of many of his contemporaries. lie 
fears being portrayed as something he is not, of being mis­
represented. He mentions his long-time girlfriend Leigh 
with affection, since she knew him and cared about him 
before anyone else or fame ever did. 
And only a person like this could want to be dressed in a 
rhinestone suit while holding the reins of a white horse for 
a photo shoot. Beck admits to using and reinventing a 
number of different styles and samples, but he insists on 
taking them further, creating something dangerous and 
new. 
What Beck decides to do with his talent in the future can 
only be imagined. Coming from a family where his Dad was 
a bluegrass musician and his mother was hanging out in 
Andy Warhol's circles, Beck definitely understands his abil­
ity to invent and risk. 
Even after watching a few videos, listening to Odelay or 
reading the barrage of interviews and articles generated 
after the Grammys; it's still hard to understand what Beck 
is all about -maybe because Beck is the fusion of all of 
these things, a quantity needing to be experienced. No one 
can dispute that he's outgrown his "Loser" phase, but he's 
not the only one winning. Through the ingenuity in his 
music, Beck scores points for his entire generation. 

Tickets 
for tonight's show are still avail· 
able. They can be purchased at 
the LaFortune Information 
Desk or at the door. Tickets for students are only $15, and are $18 for faculty, staff, and the general pub· lie. Doors open at 7 p.m. and the show begins at 8 p.m. 



;ACCENT

Tuesday, April 8, 1997 page 11 








rove he isn!lt a 

-
Stepan Center tonight 
...and the other attractions 
atari teenage riot Burn, Berlin, Burn! **** 
(out of five stars) 

I 
n 1990 the Berlin Wall fell. I think it had something to do with politics and dissent and stuff like that-I don't quite remember. All I know is that if Atari Teenage Riot's LP Burn, Berlin, Burn! had been out back then, whoever wanted that wall down could have done the following: 1) Take 100 1 00-watt speakers and line them face up against the graffiti splashed cement. 2) Hook up a Bose stereo with a few thousand Deutschmark amp. 3) Lay out some chaise lounge chairs and frosty masses of Diinkleweiss bier. 4) Pop in the Atari Teenage Riot CD, kick back, .and crank that volume knob full clockwise. 5) Press play. 
ATR's sonic blast would have torn through that wall like a wet Kleenex and chunks of mauer would have blown away_like snot in a sneeze or the blast scenes in T2 and ID4. Burn, Berlin, Burn! is revolutionary music that incites seizures, fist-fights, palpitations, whiplash, the runs, and headbanging in their simultaneously frightened and adrenalized audiences. It's music con­structed after downing extra-strong coffee brewed with Mountain Dew to wash away ten Snickers bars and grosses of Pixie-sticks. It's Minor Threat and the Prodigy playing bumper cars, as drum machines click off at 180 beats per minute under scratchy samples of what sounds like Slayer, Sick Of It All, and Sonic Youth. 
With song titles like "Destroy 2000 Years of Culture," "Deutschland (Has Cotta Die)," "Raverbashing," "Delete Yourself," "Speed," and "Into the Death" you won't find ATR on VH1 anytime soon (although, ironically, they are playing here at Notre Dame). Alec Empire, the musical incubus behind ATR, grew tired of the sleepy, commercial techno scene in Berlin, and it shows as this bastard child wrecks havoc with eardrums and electronica until the acceleration knocks you to the floor-the new, true punk. 
by Brent DiCrescenzo 


illadelph halflife *** 
(out of five stars) 

E
very once in awhile, a group comes along and makes a definitive recording which masters the style in a particular genre better than anyone. Philadelphia's Roots have created mas­terpieces in the fusion of jazz and hip-hop with both their debut, Do You Want More?!!!?!?, and their sophomore effort, illadelph halflife. The beats of the Roots move like .a slow ride through Philadelphia's streets reminiscent of another Philadelphian's, The Fresh Prince, hit "Summertime." Guest appearances by Q-tip on "Ita! (The Universe Song)" and D'angelo on "The Hypnotic" mark two of the albums better tracks. The Roots are a group that is able to see through the posing that often accompanies rap -"What They Do" denounces the sucka MCs 
-
who are after only money. The video which can be found on MTV ( of course) pounds this home with its satirization of rap and R&B videos' poseur MCs, low riders, and booty-shakin' b-girls. 
Unlike most rap groups the Roots perform as a live band with their two MCs, Black Thought and Malik B. laying down well thought out lyrics. illadelph is a well calculated and complex work. With street corner bravado on cuts like "Respond React," "It Just Don't Stop," and "Clones," the Roots manage to avoid sounding cliched, blending their deep, ever-changing sonic backdrops. The backdrops combine R&B, jazz, and their own style of hip-hop to create an album that will remain as lasting a force as Grandmaster Flash, A Tribe Called Quest, or Dr. Ore. And while the Roots have been lost among the shuffle and hype of the East Coast vs. West Coast rap rivalry in recent months, their performance tonight should open more than a few eyes to the newest wave of rap; it will provide a welcome relief from the body assaulting music of Atari Teenage Riot and serve as a stellar warm up for Beck who samples unrepentently from 
rap. 
by Pete McCarty 



~---------------------~··--------·--­
-------·-~·~------­

.... 
Classifieds 

~-N_O_T_I_C_ES__~I  ~~--~--A_N_T_E_D__~  ALASKA SUMMER EMPLOYMENT -Fishing Industry. Learn how students can earn up to $2,850/rno + benefits (room &  Must see nice 3 bdr home. 2 blocks/campus. Avail -now or Fall. 273-1566  Need Graduation Tickets Desparately. Please help!  Whoever hooked up with my 13 yr. old sister at Bridget's on Friday, I didn't appreciate it. If you want to apologize or if anyone knows who it  
THE COPY SHOP  SUMMER JOBS  board}.  NICE HOMES NORTH OF ND FOR  Brian-287-4876  was, please call Matt at x4-2259  
LaFortune Student Center  ALL LAND/WATER SPORTS  Call Alaska Information Services:  NEXT SCHOOL YEAR 2773097  Thank You  
Phone 631-COPY  PRESTIGE CHIDREN'S CAMPS  206-971-3514, xA55841.  BALLROOM DANCE TONIGHT  
Mon.: 7:30a.m.-Midnight  ADIRONDACK MOUNTAINS  1,2 & 3 BDRM HOMES NEAR  6:00-8:00 PM IN STEPAN CEN·  
Tues.: 7:30a.m. -Midnight  NEAR LAKE PLACID  CAMPUS.GILLIS PROPERTIES  NEED ND GRAD. TIX. $$  TEA. HUSTLE AND TANGO II.  
Wed.: 7:30a.m.-Midnight  1-800-786-8373  Paid Record Label Internship: Red  272-6306  PLEASE CALL 272-3753 AFTER 5  ALL ARE WELCOME. NON-MEM­ 
Thur.: 7:30a.m. -Midnight  Ant seeks marketing reps in South  PM. OR LV. MESSAGE ANYTIME.  BERS $3.  
Fri.: 7:30a.m.-7:00p.m.  CRUISE & LAND TOUR EMPLOY­ Bend  New house close to campus avail.  
Sat.: Noon-6:00p.m.  MENT · Discover how workers can  who love alt./rock music. 10·  for summer sublet $240 a month  I NEED GRADUATION TIX'!  
Sun.: Noon-Midnight  earn up to $2,000+/mo. on Cruise  20hrs/wk, working w/record stores,  per person 243-9438  WILL PAY BIG$$!! x2369  Holly,  
Open Early, Late, & Weekends  Ships or up to $5,000-$7,000/sum­ lifestyle  Those were wonderful pictures.  
mer in the Land Tour industry! Call  stores, colleges, artists. Call Rob  NICE HOMES NORTH OF ND FOR  You photograph well. Remember  
Confidential Church Vocation  Cruise Information Services: 800­ Ossorio Toll Free 1-888-RED­ NEXT SCHOOL YEAR 2773097  STEVE MILLER TICKETS  I've always got time for you.  
Information a>Jailable on the web at: http://members.aol.com/frjohnr/html /voc1.html  276-5407 Ext. C55846 SUMMER EMPLOYMENT:  ANTS. Cruise Lines Hiring -Earn to  POTATO HOUSE 8 BEDROOM FOR NEXT SCHOOL YEAR  CENTER STAGE 1st 10 ROWS FLOOR 4/25 JACC; I  Paul Buenos Deez Nutz.  
- Interested in Making Extra $$$?  ART EDUCATION ASSISTANT SNITE ART MUSEUM. Assist Education Curator with sum­ $2,000+/mo. plus free world travel (Europe, Caribbean, etc.). No exp. neces­ '-27-73-09-~_o_R_SA_L_E_ ___.I  .__P_E_R_s_o_N_A_L_--~  OPEN ADOPTION continuing contact with your child.  
Large Phys Therapy Practice look­ mer youth art program focusing on  sary. (919)918-7767, ext.C154.  FAX IT FAST!!!  visits,photographs,more.  
ing for students to make follow up  museum objects and related hands­ Sending & Receiving  Tom & Tammy, South Bend.  
phone calls to see how our patients  on activities.  National Parks Hiring -Plus Forest,  Two ten speed bikes  at  1-800-484-1607code:9883  
are doing. Filing and computer  JUNE 2ND TO AUGUST 1ST, 10  Beach Resorts, Ranches, Rafting  35 ea 288-7502  THE COPY SHOP  
entry also available. Flexible hours.  hours per week.  Companies. Nationwide openings.  LaFortune Student Center  CLASS OF 1998  
Call Gerard or Doug now! 233­ Fine Arts Major with exp. teaching  Call (919)918-7767, ext.R154.  Oldsmobile Cutlass 4 dr 1981-only  Our Fax# (219) 631-FAX1  
- 5754 ILOST & FOUND I  and/or working with children pre· ferred. (JUNE 23 TO AUG. 1ST, additional Work Study hours-if eligible-with National Youth Sports Program to  FOR RENT Near Campus  60,000 mi. -new motor-body in good cond. Call 273-9111 85 Honda Civic, 5-spd, 78K mi, good cond., $1200 obo, call  FAX IT FAST!!! HISPANIC STUDENT RETREAT!! Friday, April11. Join your ND/SMC  JOIN SENIOR CLASS COUNCIL  
Lost: Gold Claddagh Ring  make a total of 40 hours per week if  Homes for 97-98  Deepak @271-8358.  family in an experiencia religiosa.  Boost your resume! Help plan Sr.  
Reward! Call Dee at 232-5474.  desired, PLUS room and board  232·2595  Open to Notre Dame and Saint  Week! This is your last chance to  
included June 23 to Aug. 1st).  FREE Phone Card. No restrictions,  Mary's students, sponsored by  get involved in Class Gov't!  
CALL education curator Sherrie  College Park Sublet  Nothing to join, Nothing to lose, .19  Campus Ministry. Call Fr. Pal Neary  
REWARD: Lost yellow labrador  Gauley,  min. in  at 631-7712 for more info.  PICK UP AN APPLICATION OUT­ 
puppy, about 45 lbs. & 6 mo.s, last  631-4435, ASAP.  for June and July '97. 3-4 People  the  SIDE 213 LAFUN. Due back by the  
seen stray at St. Louis Street party  2BR, 2 Bath, Washer, Dryer in Apt.  U.S. SASE to: Free Phone Card,  $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$  18th.  
on Saturday night taken away by 2  Internet internships in Washington!  Call 273·3054  PO Box 1041, Logansport, IN  
ladies. Please call Dave at 288­ Marketing, journalism, web design,  46947  SOPHOMORE ACCOUNTING  Ahhh ... I'm Peter Cottontail hoppin'  
9102 with any info at all.  PR, research! Call Ben:  College Park Apartment 2/2  MAJORS  down the bunny trail.  
202-408-0008 or  Available June 1 for '97-'98 school  FURNITURE-Futon $100 Firm,  
interns@ interactivehq.org  year  Chair $50 273-8673  Want the best job on campus?  "Nice hat."  
LOST: Brown leather portfolio with  Call 271-5601  "Right back at you."  
my name written in gold on the  Need ride to Colorado after  '88 HONDA ACCORD LX  Stop by Morrissey Loan Fund  
cover.  finals. Just one bag & me. Will  Lease our College Park Apt. for the  Reliable -$4000 or best offer  across from the Lafortune Info  I wish that I had Jesse's girl.  
Extremely important information  pay. Maggie x1813  Summer! Call X4620 for info.  273-1550  Desk b/w 11:30-12:30 M-F or  
inside. I really need it!  Thanks!  ca114-1188 or 1-6616 for ?'s  I am Sparticus.  
Please call Tara at 4·1291  Alaska Employment • Earn up to $3,000·$6,000+/mo. in fisheries,  ···college Park Apartment•••  TICKETS  (Only MALES need apply)  "No I will not make out with you!"  
LOST: one pearl-drop earring; lost  parks,  • $175 per person, per month  
somewhere near SOH on Easter  resorts. Airfare! Food/Lodging! Get  -subletting for June & July  Do you have an extra GRADUA­ Family Needs Graduation  Pegs-You're time is coming.  
Sunday; Great sentimental value.  all the options. Call  -washer, dryer, air cond  TION TICKET(S)? Will pay well!!  Tickets ­Please Help!  BEWARE!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!  
Call Amy X4218.  (919)918-7767, ext. A154.  -call X1266  Please call Paige at X4011  Christian 273-6967  

page 13 

Tuesday, Apnl8, 1997 The Observer· PAID ADVERTISEMENT 

page 14 The Observer • SPORTS Tuesday, AprilS, 1997 
• MAJOR lEAGUE BASEBALL 
Royals squeeze past Orioles 
By CRAIG HORST 
Associated Press Writer 
KANSAS CITY, Mo. 
Roberto Alomar heard boos, 
starting from the moment he 
was introduced. 
Jeff King heard cheers, for his home run, double and final, winning fly ball. 
Alomar made his return to baseball after a five-game spit­ting suspension, but the Baltimore second baseman was gone by the time the Kansas City Royals won their home opener 6-5 Monday on King's sacrifice fly in the ninth inning. 
Alomar went 2-for-3 and, still hobbled by a badly sprained ankle, left for a pinch-runner in the eighth inning. 

-It was Alomar's first official game of the season. He was suspended for spitting in umpire John Hirschbeck's face last September, but the penalty was delayed through the end of the 1996 regular season and playoffs. Alomar's replacement, Jeff Reboulet, singled home the tying run with two outs in the top of the ninth, but King won it in the bottom half. A crowd of 40,052, the largest for a Royals' home game since July 4, 1993, booed Alomar during pre-game intro­ductions and each time he came to bat. But Alomar was cheered when he made a diving play in the second inning on a ball that took a bad hop at the edge of the infield grass. He threw out the speedy Tom Goodwin. The score was tied at 5 when Bip Roberts drew a leadoff walk from Armando Benitez (0­
1) in the ninth. After Goodwin popped out trying to bunt, Roberts took third on a hit-and­run single by Jay Bell. 
King, who had an RBI double early and his 1 OOth career home run in the eighth, fol­lowed with a winning sacrifice fly. 
Jamie Walker (1-1) got one out for the win. 
Play was halted several times in the late innings when sou­venir, giveaway baseballs were thrown on the field. The Royals gave out balls to the first 40,000 fans. 
King led off the eighth with a homer that tied it at 4. David Howard hit an RBI single with two outs to give the Royals the lead. 
Brian Bevil, trying for his first major league save, retired the first two Orioles in the ninth. But Mike Bordick doubled and took third on right fielder Jermaine Dye's fielding error and, after an intentional walk to Brady Anderson, Reboulet had an infield hit that made it 5-all. 
Anderson, who is playing with a cracked rib, led off the game with a double, the 1,000th hit of his career. He later hit his first home run of the year after hitting 50 last season. 
Brewers 5, Rangers 3 
MILWAUKEE Spring madness came early to County Stadium on Monday. 
Mike Matheny hit a grand slam and the Milwaukee Brewers beat the Texas Rangers 5-3 in their home opener in front of 42,893 fans, many of whom littered the field with giveaway baseballs, caus­ing three delays and threaten­ing the first forfeit in the club's 28-year history. 
The Brewers, who begin a three-day "Spring Madness" promotion on Wednesday in which bleacher seats cost but $1, were nearly done in by their fans on Monday. 
Although nobody was injured, the game was delayed three times, and Texas manager Johnny Oates played the game under protest. He pulled his players off the field twice in the second inning, with the delays lasting 14 and 16 minutes. 

Finally, Brewers manager Phil Garner and umpire crew chief Jim McKean took a micro­phone and admonished the fans to behave. 
The start of the game also was delayed for several min­utes when dozens of fans pelted the field with the baseballs they were given as they entered County Stadium, site of several ugly fan-player incidents in re­cent years. 
The final delay came moments after Matheny's grand slam gave Milwaukee a 4-1 lead in the second. He connect­ed off Ken Hill (1-1) following a walk by Jeromy Burnitz and singles by Jose Valentin and Gerald Williams. 
Oates instructed his team to take refuge in the dugout for a second time when fans littered the field with baseballs. 
With order restored, the Brewers made it 5-2 in the fifth when John Jaha scored on sec­ond baseman Mark McLemore's error. Mickey Tettleton home­red for the third straight game, connecting off Jose Mercedes in the sixth to make it 5-3. 
Cal Eldred (1-0), whose first start was washed out in Texas last week, gave up two runs on four hits in five innings, includ­ing an RBI single by Lee Stevens in the third that pulled Texas to 4-2. 
McLemore led off the first with a wind-aided double, took third on a wild pitch and scored on Dean Palmer's groundout. 
Doug Jones pitched the ninth for his third save. 
Hill surrendered four earned runs on seven hits in six-plus innings. 
-
Interested in an Environmental Career? Come to the Environmental Career Information Day 
Thursday April 1Oth 12:00 -4:30 p.m. at the CSC Students in all disciplines and all classes are welcome 
Learn about jobs that work with the Environment at the career fair: 
• 
US Environmental Protection Agency 

• 
Hoosier Environmental Council 

• 
Chicago Assoc. Planners and Architects 

• 
Superior Waste Systems 

• 
Indiana University -Purdue University, Indianapolis (IUPUI) School of Public and Environmental Affairs 

• 
Advanced Pollution Technologies, Ltd. 

• 
Solid Waste Management District of St. Joseph County 


Group discussions 
12:30-1:30pm USEPA 1:00-2:00pm Advanced Pollution Technologies, Ltd. 

1:30 -2:30 pm Mishawaka Utilities Water Department 2:00-3:00pm Solid Waste Management District of St. Joseph County More companies may be added! 
Help yourselfhelp the earth Sponsored by Terra Club Questions? E-mail: earth@darwin.helios.nd.edu 
aao pitchlng:;:i:~lways 
S):lect;has bli),en brilliant 
overthelast five games. The 
lastfi:V(l Colorado startets 
combined for a 5-0 

.,.'-'-•~----" and 2.0S ERAa.u sc ·· 
. !'.l. pitching i~,;conta~ 
·just like good hitting,'' 
<~A~tt:=:h::::::_:=·· -= ·'·<~%~~ ·......;.;;:,~,... 
n:'Itall hoilSdo;n i~ pitch­ing,n Reds manager Ray Knight saidi:jt(t puts a lot of pressure oii your offense when you are down four or five runs early. And our hit­ters are not making contact in critical situations. It was 10-2 and we have the bases loaded but hit into a double play. A base hit in that situation puts us back in the ballgame." 
In the first. Larry Walker had an RBI triple and Dante Bichette an RBI double before Reed's three·run shot. 



based on the novel by 
John Steinbeck 
adapted by 
Frank Galati 
directed by 
Reginald Bain 
Playing at Washington Hall 
Reserved Seats $8, Seniors $7, All Students $6 
Tickets are available at the door or in advance at the L..aFor.une Student Center Ticket Office. MasterCard and Visa orders call 631-8128 

Tuesday, April 8, 1997 page 15 
• WOMEN's GOLF 
Irish finish in top 10 at Kirk Bell Invitational 
By GENE BRTALIK King and Tracey Melby, card­Sports Writer ing 182's enabling them to capture 16th place in a ninety 
At the beginning of this sea­player field. They were fol­son. Coach Ross Smith stated lowed by Cooper, Hall and that for the woman's golf team junior Kristen Schaner. to improve this season, one of "I struggled in the first the golfers in the four through round, but after adjusting my six spot would have to come swing for the second round I through. played pretty solid," stated 
A couple of weeks ago it was Hall. freshman Beth Cooper who led "It was nice to see her play the team at the Kirk Bell well. She is one of the hardest Invitational. This past week­workers on the team. The end at the Indiana Invitational, whole team was 'tickled to senior Marty Anne Hall stepped death' to see her play well," up and carded a second round commented Smith. Melby 3 over par 77. This helped the agreed and added, "She is the team jump two spots into tenth type of player that never gives place in a 17 team field. The up, and coach's help on the team finished only six strokes range before the second round behind an impressive was confident boaster for her." Northwestern squad. The one sore spot for the 
"I was pleased with how well team is that Schaner is suffer­we played, especially in a field ing from a shoulder injury that laden with talent. Four of the inhibited her play over the top 25 teams were there, weekend. including the whole Big 10," The team returns to action said Smith. next weekend at the Purdue 
Leading the team once again University Spring Invitational. were junior co-captains Katie 
.\
11111

Mans Golf :':1 Johnny Owens Invitational Results 
... """''""""'"'"'""'"'""'·~ww~h~~:: ..~:::::·'"''k""'t:i·m~.w.d~L:.::j: 
Team Finish Player Finish 

1. Toledo 876 9. Brian Weeks 221 
2. Miami (OH) 881 9. Joel Hepler 221 3. Marshall 887 34. Todd Vernon 226 
4. Notre Dame 891 38. Brian Donohue 227 
. · ··• CJub -A weightlift­ing club is coming soon next ear for novice or serious Learn more about the liftfug·and developing a and stronger physique. Binh at 4-4364 for sign­
and l}lore info. . 
• Mnts Gou= 

Vernon shows improvement 
Freshman helps Irish grab fourth place finish 
By GENE BRTALIK 
. Sports Writer 
Less than a week after achieving their biggest victory in the 1990s, the men's golf team returned to action at the Johnny Owens Invitational. 
Unlike the first win they achieved last week against a weaker field, this weekend saw the men's team finish fourth in an 18-team field against some sive first two rounds shooting a 294 and a 288 respectively (their highest two rounds of the year), and was in third place overall. 

On the third day, the weather became extremely rough, resembling the conditions they played in last week. The team finished with a 309 in the round, ending up in fourth place overall. They finished four strokes behind third place Marshall, and four ahead of Eastern Kentucky. 
"We played solid the first two rounds, but on the third day the weather got to us," commented freshman Todd Vernon. 
Once again eyes focused on 
"I am beginning to show signs of improvement from last fall," commented Vernon. "What has really helped me is the work I have done on my short game." 
"He is doing a good job filling in. A 69 is just what we need from the five spot," said Weeks regarding Vernon's play . 
The top finisher for the Irish was Weeks, finishing eighth in a field of 96, scoring a 220 for three rounds and finishing one stroke ahead of fellow co-cap­tain Joel Hepler. 
Weeks and Hepler both shot under par with 70 and a 69, respectively. 
"I am gradually improving, but I am having problems with 


Do you like to dane~? 
Interested in 
'froopl'i!D? 

Come to ov.l" JV\fol"matioV\al meeting 
TONJc:\t-IT 9:30pm 

at the MoV\tgome,.y Theat,.e iV\ LaFod!AV\ 
of the strongest competition Vernon. my putting. I am happy with they have faced all season. A week after shooting a one how I have played, but I could 
"The team is gradually over par 72 in extremely diffi­do better," added Weeks. improving," stated junior co­cult weather conditions, he The team returns to action in captain Bryan Weeks. carded a three-under par 69 on two weeks at the Legends of 
The team played an impres-an equally difficult course. Indiana Intercollegiate. 
Reclaiming 
The Contemporary 
Human 
Christian 
Sexuality 
Challenge 
Monday, April 7 • 7-8:30 pm Making Love: Sexuality and Intimacy 
Contemporary culture tends to reduce sexuality to sex. It misses the shared call to "make love" in more inclu­sive ways through friendship, honesty and generous service. 
Wednesday, April 9 • 7-8:30 pm Giving Life: Sexuality and Generativity 
Every Human being is an imago Dei-an icon of the divine. Thus each of us, whether single or married, young or old, gay or straight, is invited to respond to God's invitation to "increase and multiply" -to give life to humanity and the world. 

Fran Ferder 
and John Heagle nationally recognized authors and 
speakers on the topic of sexuality 
and spirituality. 
April 7, 9, 1997 Chapel of the Holy Cross Keenan-Stanfo,rd Hall 7-8:30 
Each session will include an experience of 1n·ayer·, presentation by the speakers and refreshments. 

0MPUS 
MINISTRY 

-
... ' 
-------------~---~----~~­
page 16 The Observer· SPORTS 
• MH.J'S TENNIS

-
Sachire, Pietrowski storm Purdue 
By JIM ZALETA 
Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame men's tennis team improved its record to 15­4 with a victory over Purdue University on Saturday. The 11th-ranked Irish team came 
out strong after a much deserved rest. 
The last match the team played was the win against Ball 

State on Pietrowski March 22. The Boilermakers have fallen to the Irish in their recent meetings. Purdue, currently 10-4, faced an Irish team that has their sights set on the NCAA tournament in May. Notre Dame has participated in the NCAA tournament in each of the last six seasons. The Irish opened the match playing hard and winning all three doubles matches by a score of 8-3. Junior Jakub Pietrowski and sophomore Brian Patterson pounded 22nd­ranked Cris James and Derek Meyers. The Purdue pair had trouble keeping up with their Irish opponents, who made them scramble to all ends of the court. Pietrowski and Patterson continuously pound­ed them into the ground, never giving them a chance to rest. Their record improves to an impressive 13-3 and they cur­rently hold a national ranking of 18, up 20 places from the last ranking. Coach Bobby Bayliss considers them the best doubles team in the Midwest, and feels they will definitely go up in the new rankings which 
come out next week. 
Freshmen Trent Miller and Ryan Sachire also played an impressive match at No. 2 dou­bles. 
The two freshmen have adapted well to college doubles play, compiling an overall record of 12-4 between the No. 2 and 3 spots this season. 
"The whole team has been working real hard," said Sachire, "putting in extra time lifting and training a lot. Coach Bayliss has really done a lot to keep the team working hard." 
Senior Ryan Simme and junior Danny Rothschild beat Bryan Harris and Jason Smith at No. 3 doubles. Since moving to this position the pair has compiled a 5-0 record. The pair is currently 15-9 in overall doubles play. 
Sachire continued his hard work at the No. 1 singles spot. He defeated Purdue's Gordon 7-5, 6-4. 
"I have to credit Coach Bayliss and Coach Zurcher for all they have done with me this year," Sachire commented. "They have helped me a lot. We always go out there with a no fear attitude." 
Sachire is currently ranked 
42nd in the country, up from 
previous rankings. 
"Sachire has a never quit, coming-right-at-you, let's-see­what-you-got-attitude," Bayliss said. "He plays without fear." 
Pietrowski won in two sets 
over James. Pietrowski, cur­
rently 17-14 overall, has seen 
difficult opponents as of late. 
He has continued to. pull 
through for the Irish giving 
them big wins in the No. 2 spot. 
He is still has not entirely 
recovered from his elbow injury 
last season. 
At the No. 3 spot, Simme lost a close first set to Meyers, 7-6, and then fell 6-1 in the second set. 
Patterson improved his No. 4 singles record to 9-2. l-Ie easily defeated Greg Wessenberg 6-1 in the first set, but Wessengerg came back to take the second. 
Patterson turned on the heat though and won the third, giv­ing him the match. 
Rothschild lost in three sets to Jerad Harbaugh, but he has proven essential to the middle part of the lineup this season. His hard play has been over­looked, but he is one of the key players who deepens the Irish lineup. 
Fifth-year senior and co-cap­tain Marco Magnano played in. his first varsity match Saturday for the injured Eric Enloe. Magnano won the match in two sets 6-4, 6-4 over Steve Brizendine.. 
"He stepped up and won one for the team," Bayliss said. 
His victory was a huge boost for the team. Enloe is expected to be in the lineup on Wednesday. 
The Irish face what could be their toughest match of the sea­son on Wednesday. The Northwestern Wildcats will come to the Eck to play at 3:30 p.m. 
"I expect a war," Bayliss con­
tinued. "They are the best 
team in the Big Ten. They are 
extremely aggressive, big 
strong guys." 
They have lost some very close matches this year to teams in the top 10. The latest being against No. 9 Pepperdine last week. 
Sachire acknowledged that 
everyone has to be on their 
game to win. "The regional 
title could come down to this 
match-up," Sachire said. 
Please Recycle The Observer 
COACH BOBDA

-Speaks to the Notre Dame students about the coming year and ND football.


-WEDNESDAY•7PM DeBartolo 101 Tickets are ree and availa le at the Info Desk 

Tuesday, AprilS, 1997 

• SPORTS MEDICINE 
Moriarty to lecture on Creatine 

Observer Staff Report 
Dr. James Moriarity will conduct a lecture on the topic of Creatine Monohydrate in Athletics on Monday, April 14 at 7:30p.m. 
The lecture will be in room 102 DeBartolo IIall. The lec­ture will detail the history of creatine in its use as an ergogenic substance. 
Recommendations for prop­er dosage, time of uss and suitability for individual sports will be addressed. 
The lecture will be the same as presented to a national group of sports medicine physicians by Moriarity at the American Medical Society of Sports Medicine Annual in Colorado Springs. 
Creatine has received a great amount of notoriety as one of the first supplements that "really works" to enhance athletic performance. While there is a significant amount of research supporting the efficiency of creatine, there is a great deal of "misinforma­tion" and grandiose claims regarding its use. 
The lecture is targeted for student athletes, coaches. exercise specialists and indi­viduals interested in remain­ing on the leading edge of sports science. 

Celebrate a friend's birthday with a special Observer ad. 
I~e Cushwa Center 

1:::::! F 
For the study ·of I I AmericanU Catholicism 
presents 
Catholic Intellectual Traditions and Contemporary Scholarship 
Professor James Turner 
Department of History 
This Afternoon Tuesday, April 8 4:00p.m. Hesburgh Library Lounge 

[TRJINSFER: 
Transfer Orientation 
I
for Fall Jf 1997 
E

needs Chairperson ( s) 
N 
All interested pick up an application in 315 LaFortune. T 
Application Deadline: fl April lith 
T
4:00 pn1 
I 
Questions? Call: 
0
Giovana at 243-1451 Matt at 4-3451 
N 
-~---­

Tuesday, April 8, 1997 The Observer· SPORTS page 17 
• BOOKSTORE BASKETBAll

• NFL 
Former Irish running back charged with DWI 
Associated Press 
KENNER, La. 

New Orleans Saints fullback Ray Zellars was arrested early Monday in the city's suburbs for reckless operation of a vehi­cle, driving while intoxicated and having no license. 
Zellars, 24, was stopped about 3 a.m. after Kenner police saw him traveling at a high rate of speed. He later failed a field sobriety test and had a blood alcohol level of 0.115, investigators said. 
A 0.10 reading is considered legally intoxicated in Louisiana. 
Zellars, the second leading rusher on the Saints last year, had just completed a three-day minieamp, the first under Mike Ditka, who was hired as the coaeh in January. 
"We are aware of the situa-

New Orleans Saints star and for­Iller Irish player Ray Zellars, was arrested Monday in Louisiana. 
tion and Mike Ditka has spoken to Ray," general manager Bill Kuharich said in a statement. 
Zellars was a No. 2 draft pick out of Notre Dame in 1995. 

Have something to say? Use The Observer classifieds. 
Informational 
Meeting: 
Wednesday,April 9th 
8:00PM 
at the 
LaFortune .Sorin Room 
or 
call Steve McMullen at 
4-0600 
MOREAU CENTER / LITTLE THEATRE APRIL 10, 11,12 at 8 p.m. APRIL 13 at 2:30 p.m. 
For ticket information, call: 219/284-4626 
~OBSERVER 
The Accent Section is looking for people interested in the following paid positions: 
Assistant Editors Copy Editors Music Editor 
We are also lookingfor music critics, film critics, writers in general, and anyone interested in writing an advice column. 

For information please contact Joey at 1-4540 and write a one page personal statement. 
Team names draw attention 
By BETSY BAKER 
Associate Sports Editor 
There are many factors that motivate teams to play Bookstore Basketball. Some teams embrace the competition and the idea of becoming champions of one of the best athletic traditions at Notre Dame, while others just need to get in shape. Some teams like often infamous people that catch Irish eyes. 

Then there is the men's bas­ketball team. Regardless of the kind of performance the team has given in the past season ­it could have won the National Championship for all Bookstore players care -it always seems there is someone who feels the Irish hoopsters deserve criti­cism and manifest this feeling 
to go out and make a ,-----------------==-­
statement, whether it be Tape" or "Naked 
'1\
; 

! r·~l;'~l Women."
with creative apparel or e~ .. 
'"'
creative play, and still oth-,,,, ers just like to go out, play some ball, and have a good time. 
Regardless of why a team is out on the court, there is one serious decision that goes into playing Bookstore Basketball ­what to name the team. 
Although they are few and far between, some teams decide to let their playing speak for themselves and go nameless, receiving the ever-cr·eative "Team 272" distinction. But for the most part, creating a team name for Bookstore takes more time and effort than prac­ticing for the tournament itself, with many of this year's teams reflecting this. 
Of course, every year brings the obvious· references to the sexual repression that, as shown by the Bookstore names, apparently runs rampant at this University. It also pays tes­tament to the student body's affinity to the latest -literally and figuratively -breaking news. 
This year's teams pay much attention to the late rappers Tupac Shakur and the Notorious B.I.G., and other nament such as "Who's Your Daddy?" or "If we're not danc­ing with our janitors, we're probably dancing with your mother." 
Still, others prefer the simple, yet witty approach, such as "Team," "Bye," or "47474." 
Finally, there are the teams that leave us wondering and probably, because of this, will draw a crowd, such as "DOS 
GOLDKAMPS avec Duct 

.,, IQIIJ'iJIL,, Overall, the Bookstore 
names are often pretti­in their bookstore name. A er and more creative than the good example of that this year play itself, but that's one of the is the named "The Matt Gotsch best parts about Bookstore Meal Plan." Basketball -even if you can't 
Another favorite choice of play basketball, you can still teams is to choose a name that get some recognition for play­actually has something to do ing in the tournament. with the team itself. You know what they say ­
Third-seeded "Malicjous it's all in the name. Prosecution" ~------------------.,., 
is made up of a group of law students, while No. 32 "All the President's Men" is made up of University president Father Edward "Monk" Malloy and four others closely relat­
ed. 

Many teams feel the need to bring their or someone else's parents into the tour-
Bookstore Basketball 

-
-
If you need to do some catching up or want to get a jump on fall, summer classes at Holy Cross College may be just the ticket. Choose one or both sessions, each offering a wide variety of quality general education courses. And pay our summer tuition rate of just $160 per credit hour. 
Take advantage of exceptionally small classes, a dedicated and caring faculty, and our convenient location just to the west of the University of Notre Dame campus. Credit earned is transferable. 
f ­

You'll enjoy summer activities even more, knowing that you're atso getting ahead in your studies. Write or call Holy Cross 
*
HOLY 

College today. Applications for Summer Sessions I and II, as well CROSS as for the 1997 Fall Semester, are now being accepted. l;;: COLLEGE Office of Admissions Session I -May 19 to june 26 P.O. Box 308 • Notre Dame, IN 46556 
(219) 239-8400, ext. 22 • Fax (219) 233-7427
Session II -june 30 to August 7 
e-mail:-hccadmis@gnn.com 

-----~----­
I 1,, 
Tuesday, AprilS, 1997
page 18 The Observer· SPORTS 

-
i 
I 
l ~­
t 
-
-
• BASEBALL 
Despite chill, Irish bats are hot 
By T. RYAN KENNEDY Above all, Chicago State (7-stamped five of the first six bat­Spans Writer 
18) and its thin 18-man roster ters he ever faced with the let­is in town today for a 5 p.m. ter "K." He finished his debut At present, things couldn't be show against a Notre Dame last week with eight strikeouts, more perfect for these base­team that dresses some 30 despite losing 2-1 because the 
ballin' Irish: The wind contin­players a game and has won 11 offense cooled to subzero tem­
ues to whirl. One more chilly of 12 g&mes. peratures. 
frost has saturated South Bend. Freshman Tim Kalita (0-1) "I expeet him to do well. lie's 
Jeff Wagner was named Big will take the mound for the earned another start by attack­East Player of the Week, and Irish, and for those who have ing the hitters," said coach Paul 
freshman Brant Ust was named forgotten or never knew to Mainieri. "He lets it all hang Big East Rookie of the Week. begin with. it was Kalita who out, and by that I mean he lets the fastball go and he throws strikes." On the other side, Irish bats have inflicted mad slaughter on their opponents of late. Against a Chicago State team that has allowed some 27 home runs (to opponen"ts' 10 surrendered), Wagner, Amrhein and Co. loom larger than life. Ust himself has inflicted his share of damage. "We've just got to keep swinging the bats," Ust said. "Any time you can put away a team in one inning, that's an instant confidence builder." As for the weather, Notre Dame seems to always possess the advantage, even against other teams that a·re accus­tomed to the kind of cold weather that continues to plague South Bend. Much of this is due to the heavily favored balance of power on the side of the Irish. Coach Mainieri's hard-nosed philosophy is an advantage unto itself. "That's part of the game," said Mainieri. "It's something we've had to deal with and it's something we'll have to deal 
~with in order to win." 

If you see sports happening, call The Observer at 1·4543. 
• To Support 
• To Assist 
• To explore common issues of being gay or lesbian at Notre Dame 
MEETING FOR NOTRE DAME LESBIAN AND GAY 
STUDENTS GROUP 
Today!!! Tuesday, April 8 
For time and location of meeting, call 63 1-8041 NDLGS Group Advisors: Fr. Tom Gaughan, C.S.C. Sr. Mary Louise Gude, C.S.C. 
All Meetings are private and confidential. 
some of the crowding at the safeties. If not, he figures to

D-backs 
reclaim his starting job from a 

continued from page 20 
safeties, and it is these spots that could be up for grabs. Sanders, who earned the start­ing role at strong safety before the 1996 campaign, was forced to miss more than half of the season due to knee problems. 
It has been speculated that Sanders could be moved to a corner in order to alleviate year ago. Edison, who is also returning from midseason injuries, is expected to win back his job as the starting free safety. Potential challengers for the position are Guilbeaux and Cooper. 
The freshmen who will attempt to displace the more experienced defenders are Ronald Israel (6-1, 175) and BrockWilliams(5-11,175). 


Senior Ivory Covington and Junior Benny Guilbeaux will hopefully be key contributors to next season's defensive backfield. 
Intensive German and Russian Summer Language Program 
Complete your Language requirements by earning up to 9 credits in German and 5 credits in Russian. Low tuition rates; so% tuition reductionfor recent ND graduates. 
101 Beginning German I 6/17 -711 1 02 Beginning German II 7/2 -7/16 1 03 Beginning German III 7/17 -7/29 

(MTWHF 10:20 a.m.-12:30 p.m. tutoriall:30 p.m.) 
E 240 Conversational German 6/17-7/29 (Til 6:00p.m. -8:30p.m.) 500 German Graduate Reading 6/17-7/29 (MTWIIF 11:30 a.m. -12:30 p.m.) RU 101 First Year Russian 6/17-7/29 (MTWHF 6:30 p.m. -8:30p.m.) 
Contact: Summer School Director at 63:1.-7282 
project face to face 


~eeiliq t4e /ace~ ol ai~~ ali~ 4i 
apJ-Ail 7-11 lafoJ-Atv.J'\e ball J-Aoom fJ-Aee admissioJ'\ 11-4 7-9 rii1110C\m-12 



·-·-----·--------~---­Tuesday, AprilS, 1997 The Observer • TODAY page 19 
MIXED MEDIA JACK OHMAN YOUR HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Betty Ford, Jacques Brd, Sonja I ienie, Catfish Hunter 
DEAR EUGENIA: I have been di­vorn~d for two years after a 19-year marriage. I had a relationship with a man born Nov. 5, 1955, which I ef\ded. I met a fellow born June 13, 1958, in December and I fell head over heels. He seemed to as well. Now he seems to have cooled it. Will this relationship work? Help? I'm a Virgo, born Sept. 9, 1957, at 7:10a.m. 
Looking for Love 
DEAR LOOKING FOR LOVE: Your connection to your Gemini lover ap­pears to be one of kanna. I feel that you met in order to teach one an­other something, and not necessarily. to be together for any length of time. You actually match up better to those born under the water signs Cancer, Scorpio and Pisces. Don't give up hope. People from your past are like­ly to come back into your life at the end of the year or beginning of next year. If he is meant to be in your life again, it will be so. As for other past partners, it is best not to forget the reasons why these individuals have not been in your life since your last encounter. 
ARIES (March 21-April 20): Your ambitious mood may not go over well with loved ones. Find a quiet
"THe HAPPe,\ C,O L.UCK~ ReAPER 
spot where you can work diJigently and stay out of the way. TAURUS (April 21-May 21): Check your personal papers to make
SCOTT ADAMS

DILBERT 
sure everything is in order. You will lmd that you are lucky today. GEMINI (May 22-June 21): You
HERE.'5 THE NEW ORG 
O~A'( I WHO TOLD 'YOu 
can expect to have some problems 
·CHART. I I-lAO TO THAT EVERY YEAR I FISH 
RHRRANGE. THE L~YOUT TO M~KE-IT FIT. 

CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 27 Reason for a small craft 
1 Cobblers advisorysCity near 32 ParisPhoen1x newspaper,10 "Half-Breed" with "Le" 
singer 34 Blow one's top 14 Med. sch 35 Circle segment course 36 Baker's dozen15 All possible 37 Sign of spring 16 Part of A.P.R. 
38 Headliner 17 Nimble 39 What Dorian 
18 Dancer Gray didn't do Jeanmaire 
40"--lnsh 19 Persia, today 
Rose" 20 The Boy King 41 Computer 21 Sculpture in the device Louvre 42 Dog patch 23 Madalyn O'Hair. dweller 
e.g. 44 Author John 25 "Norma----" Dickson-­
26 Deborah's role 45 Bill's partner in "The King 46 Costa Rican and I" export 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
5 K & 10 K Runs 
plus 


• 
2 Mile Walk Saturday, April 12, 11 :00 AM Stepan Center 

Born Today: You'll have some brilliant ideas this year but you will also 
YOUR 5ECRETARIES'DAY 
attract some undesirable characters. Be observant in all your dealings and you 
will watch your assets grow. Be too trusting and you stand. to lose. 
IT MEAN';, 
CARD OUT Of 'YOUR TRASH NOTI-\ING... 
AND SAVE IT FOR NEY-T NOTI-IING 
Tif'\E1 1-\T A.LL. 
) 
49 Former Ford offering 54 Org. that st1cks to its guns 55 Bread spread 56 Memorable ship 57 Count calones 58 Gen. Bradley 59 Modify so--Dom1ni 61 Precious metal 62 Lascivious looks 63 He was a "Giant" star 
DOWN 
1 Naples noodles 2 Enter, as data 3 1955 hit for the 
Crew-Guts 4 Pig's digs sMother-­6 The Super 
Bowl, e.g. 7 Diner's card 

·­
a Nov. electee 28 Regrets 41 Tailless cat 49 SyntheSIZer 9 Tears? 29 Apollo mission 43 International 
man 10"--and agreement 50 "Tickle Me" doll 
30 Intervals of 
Misdemeanors" 
history 44 Wickerworkers 51 Genuine 11 Mata-­
31 Farm 46 Sketch comic 52 Where Bill met 12 Useful Latin John Hillary
measure 
abbr. 
32 Repast 47 Sports center 53 Lo-fat 13 Gambler's 
mecca 33 Today, in Turin 48 Squelched 57 Father figure 
34 Southernmost Great Lake 
21 Ivy plant 
22 It may be Far or Answers to any three clues in this puzzle 
Near 37 Irregular 
are available by touch-tone phone: 24 Brings to a 38 Carolina rail 1-900-420-5656 (75q; per minute). close 
40"--Ben Annual subscriptions are available for the 
-=+=+=+:::-l 27 Town--(early Adhem" (Leigh best of Sunday crosswords from the last newsman) Hunt poem) 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 


R~~ 

C-HRISTMAS IN APRIL 
BENEFIT R U N 


T-Shirts to all Registrants Register in advance at RecSports $5.00 in Advance or $6.00 Day of Race All Proceeds to Benefit Christmas in April 
631-6100 


with your mate 1f you have beef' spending too much time away from home. Your fickle nature may caust: jealousy. 
CANCER (june 22-July 22): If you tak~ on ton much, you wm find your­self in a martyr's position once again. Colleagues may try to undem1ine you when talking to superiors. 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 23): You can make financial gains if you are pre­pared to take a risk. This is a great day to get out and enjoy an entertain­ing evening with friends or lovers. 
VIRGO (Aug. 24-Sept. 22): You can make favorable real estate offers today Your ability to put a deal to­gether will surprise others. 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 23): Travel and educational pursuits will help al­leviate the stress you have been un­dergoing. You need to pamper your­self for a change. 
SCORPIO (Oct. 24-Nov. 22): This is not the best day to visit relatives who get on your nerves. You will lind that doing odd jobs around the house will be successful and appreciated by loved ones. 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 23-Dec. 21): 
Do not sign contracts or get involved 
in dubious financial deals. You must 
use discretion when talking to others. 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 20): 
Opportunities to make money may 
interfere with your personal plans. 
Try to ease the disappointment by 
making compensations. 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 21-Feb. 18): The 
advice you get today may be·based 
on false information.. Don't be too 
quick to respond to a plea for h'elp. 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): You 
will enjoy getting together with 
friends and children to share in spe­
cial events that are taking place. 




SPORTS 
page 20 Tuesday, AprilS, 1997 
• TRACK AND fiHD 

Irish tracksters look ahead after weekend success 
Men and women capture first and second place 
By STEVE HARRIS Sports Writer 
The great ones make it look easy. No matter who the com­petition is or what odds they face, the best athletes find a way to rise to the top, display­ing grace, style and efficiency no matter what obstacle lies in front of them. 
That was once again the case for the Notre Dame track and field team last weekend. Although the squad fought hard all the way down to the wire, there was little doubt that the Irish wouldn't walk away victorious. 
When it was all said and done, the men's team emerged victorious in the weekend's tri­angular meet between Miami (Ohio) and Butler. The women also looked impressive, placing second to Miami by just six points. 
Leading the charge once again were hurdler Errol Williams and sprinter Chris Cochran. 
Williams placed first in the 

.,.. 
110-meter hurdles with a time of 14.0 seconds before racing to a victory in the 100-meter dash (1 0.8). 
Cochran matched Williams, winning the 400-meters (48.30) and 200-meters (21.93) over his competitors from Miami and Butler. 
Other winners for the Irish were Jason Hexing in the 1500­meter (3:52.4), Derek Seiling in the steeplechase (9:15.4), and Jeff Hojnacki in the 800-meter (1:51.6). 
Jay Hafner captured the prize in the hammer throw (168-6}, while javelin thrower Chris Smith (189-4 1/2) and shot putter Mike Fleisch (56-1­3/4) also came away on top for the Irish. 
On the women's side, Alison Ho"ward, Dominque Calloway, and Nadia Schmiedt emerged as double winners in their respective events, helping Notre Dame score 139 points on the day. 
Howard won the 400-meter run in a stunning 54.66 before leaping 18-feet, 3 inches in the long jump. Not to be outdone, Calloway won the 100-meter (11. 7) and 200-meter (24.25) despite tough competition from Miami. 
Hurdler Nadia Schmiedt sparked Notre" Dame in the 400-meter and 100-meter hur­dles with times of (1:00.30) and (14.5), respectively. 
The Irish return to action next weekend at the Sea Ray Relays in Knoxville, Tenn., and at the Miami Invitational in Oxford, Ohio. 


Senior Jeff Hojnacki chases down his competitor en route to a victory in the 800-meter. the Irish win top honors in this weekend's tri-meet with Miami of Ohio and Butler .  The Observer/Rob F1nch His running helped  
• fOOTBALL  

Secondary depth key for Irish 
- 
I I r ~ ! I I  - 


The Observer/Brandon Candura Senior Allen Rossum, despite seeing action at wide receiver this spring, is expected to lead the Irish backfield in 1997. 
Veterans look to provide leadership on defense 
By BRIAN REINTHALER Assistant Sporrs Ediror 

The Notre Dame football program has tradi­tionally relied on its front seven for leadership on the defensive side of the ball. In 1997, however, it is the secondary whose experience will be the key factor in the defense's success. 
Besides returning senior starters Allen Rossum, Ivory Covington and Jarvis Edison, the Irish have a plethora of younger talent with sig­nificant game experience. 
"(The younger guys) are coming along just fine," said Rossum. The whole secondary just has a lot of learning to do. When you see a guy make a mistake, you just make sure we point it out to him." 
Due to injuries last season to Edison and sophomore A'Jani Sanders, players such as Benny Guilbeaux and Deke Cooper were given an opportunity to cut their teeth at the safety posi­tions. 
••rtl·;n~g· f:o\o·,•·IJ···,a···i1·1··
up: I i i ' : ~ : .j ·• . 11 ' : i : ·. 
'199!7 

The Observer will be profiling a different position on the Notre Dame football team each day this week. 
Of all the players who saw their first live action in 1996, Guilbeaux, a rising junior, was, by far, the most impressive. Guilbeaux led the team with four interceptions and linished third on the squad in tackles with 62. 
Senior Ty Goode and sophomores Devron Harper and Lee Lafayette are additional back­field options for new defensive coodinator Greg Mattison. 
Among the projected starters, Rossum and Covington appear to be the veterans to whom the secondary will look for leadership. Each record­ed 50 or more tackles and neither missed a sin­gle game for the Irish in 1996. 
"We have the added responsibility of being seniors," Rossum commented, "but it's not really going to put stress on the secondary (to lead the entire defense)." 
With spring football well under way, the com­petition for starting positions has begun. Although the depth charts will not be finalized before the incoming freshman are given a look in August, the backs with experience should be able to establish some job security during the spring. 
The squad has tremendous depth at the 
seeD-BACKS I page 18 
D Monday 8~ Linebackers IITuesday 8;;: SecondaryD Wednesday 8., Defensive Line D Thursday e:., Special Teams D Friday fl-,; Wide Receivers 
The Observer/ Melissa Weber 
at Indiana,
vs. Chicago State, 
rf Today
Today, 5 p.m. 

r 
aJ •Men's Tennis defeats Purdue 
SPOiris 
vs. Northwestern,
AT A ... , 
vy at Michigan, 

April 9, 3:45 p.m. see page 16
~ .~ ...
April!O

..... _ 
Track and Field, riJ • Bookstore Basketball 
., at Sea Ray Relays
Men's Lacrosse vs. Butler, 
see page 17
GLANCE~~ 
and Miami Invitational 
April 9, 3 p.m. 

April 11 and 12 ~ 




