~--------·------~--------------------------------------------------------~ 

Wednesday, February 26, 1997 • Vol. XXX No. 99 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
• HALL PRES!OENTS' CO!JNCIL 
Council passes constitutional amendments 
By SEAN SMITH last week. In the end, 22 dorms voted vice president of Student Affairs. News Writer to accept the changes. Sorin and Under Article 10 of the new constitu­Carroll rejected the reforms, Alumni tion, however, amendments would be 
University of Notre Dame students and Flanner abstained, and Keough approved only by Student Senate, and are now one step closer to owning a was not represented. not HPC. rP!'ormed student constitution. "We [HPC] were very well represent­"It's good to take a lot of busy work 
Following a short debate last night, ed and agreed with the changes," said out of HPC, but an amendment is a dif­the Hall !'residents' Council over­Mark Fennell, co-president of Keenan ferent circumstance," said Bill Briggs, whelmingly approved the Student Hall and member of the reform com­co-president of Keenan Hall. Senate reform committne's proposed mittee. The reform committee's pro­The debate did not last long, howev­changes to the current constitutional posed changes, however, did not go er, as the room was cleared of all non­documrnt. entirely undebated. Mike Tobin, co­HPC members and voting commenced. 
"This [reformation] is something that chair of HPC and off-campus represen­The general consensus among HPC a lot of people have put a lot of work tative, expressed concern over HPC's members was that student senators into, and it is complete, thorough, and future role in approving amendments would be in more contact with their allows· us to do things better," said to the constitution. constituents in the future and thus Brendan Kelly, head of the reform "Basically this document allows HPC could adequate!>' represent the views committee. to do what it does best," Kelly replied. of the campus. 
The outcome of HPC's vote was not As the current constitution demands "One thing that we did maintain in surprising, resulting from the reform now, all amendments must be this document was HPC's autonomy," 
Brendan Kelly, chair of the reform commit­
committee's effective presentation of approved by both HPC and Student 
tee, explained the proposed constitutional
the proposed changes to the council Senate before going to the desk of the 
see REFORM I page 4 changes to the HPC before they voted. 
• SAINT MAHY'S CLASS OFFICER ELECTIONS
WEDNESDAY FEATURE 
Balloting decides two
Prof's approach impacts students 
offices in SMC primaries
SMC's Claude 
By LORI ALLEN (treasurer) were chosen to Saint Mary's News Editor represent their class.

Renshaw tours 
"It is such an honor that the In an unexpected twist for class has chosen us to repre­and teaches Saint Mary's student politics, sent them next year. We are only one runoff election will ready to get going and start By ALYSSON COOK follow yesterday's three pri­implementing everything that maries. we discussed on our plat­
Saint Mary's Assistant News Editor While the junior and fresh­form," Coury said. Claude Renshaw, Saint man classes elected their offi­Chiara Marcheschi (presi­cers Tuesday, the Class of dent), Katie Brown (vice presi­
Mary's professor of business 
administration and econom­1999 must revisit the polls on dent), Sarah Corkrean (secre­
Thursday for a runoff. tary). and Brigid Coleman
ics. has an office with a 
couch. a chair, .and an imme­Three tickets ran for senior «reasurer) earned 32 percent 
diately comfortable atmos­class office, and the deciding of the vote. 
phere. vote fell with the Coury ticket. "We are excited for Lisa and 
That's not all. Capturing 54 percent of the wish them the best of luck 
A personable man with a vote, Lisa Coury (president), next year," said Marcheschi. 
sturdy handshake, Renshaw's Ivonne Grantham (vice presi­Sarah Looney (president), 
window is a collage of exotic dent), Meredith Johnson (sec­Michelle Abraham (vice presi­
stamps from all corners of retary). and Meg Winkler 
see ELECTIONS I page 4the world. His office reflects 
his own character. It houses 
Abbey adorn the opposite "We organized the trip
a new bumper sticker collec­wall. through the Republican Club
tion and an autographed 
"I love London and to go to D.C. ," said Renshaw. 
photo of Newt Gingrich. 
Washington D.C., and I know " The whole idea was to show
A map of London's 
the two cities well," said everyone around and maybeUnderground, acquired dur­Renshaw. Three years ago, meet a few politicians." 
ing Renshaw's 1987 sabbati­Renshaw decided to take a A trip to Washington wascal in London, engulfs one group of tostudents only the beginning. Duringwall. A bookshelf with family 
Washington D.C. During this past Christmas break,
photos and black and white Fall Break of 1994, he took Professor Renshaw and his
prints of the Tower of 
students from Saint Mary's to wife chaperoned a week-long
London. Saint Paul's the nation's capital for theCathedral, and Westminster 
first time. see RENSHAW I page 4 



Malloy to serve as club trustee 
Special to The Observer nization to local clubs and com­of the national service pro­
munities. gram. 
Father Edward Malloy, presi­Now in his tenth year as The Boys Club, first estab­dent of the University of Notre Notre Dame's president, Malloy lished in 1860, changed its Dame, has been elected to the is a national leader in efforts to name in 1990 to Boys & Girls National Board of Trustees of assist America's young people. Clubs of America. With 1,976 the Boys & He is a member of the National clubs nationwide, B&GCA pro­Girls Clubs of Committee on Higher Education vides guidance-oriented char­America. and the Health of Youth, a new acter development programs on 
As a organization funded by the a daily basis to some 2.6 million national Centers for Disease Control and young people between six and trustee, Prevention. and he chairs the 18 years of age. Malloy will Education and Training Club programs emphasizehelp generate Committee of the AmeriCorps educational achievement, support for and National Civilian career exploration, drug and the B&GCA's Community Corps Advisory alcohol avoidance, health and annual cam­Board. He also chairs the fitness, gang and violence pre­paign, which Indiana Commission on vention, cultural enrichment, supports programs and services Community Service, which leadership development and provided by the national orga-oversees state implementation community service. 






page 2 

r 
f • INSIDE COlUMN 
We have 
sntart, 
tw"O 
It has occured to me 

that many people hold  Nora Meany  
the mistaken belief  Saint Mary's Accent  
that Saint Mary's stu­ Editor  
dents are not intelle­ 
gent.  

This is not write. We are not stoopid here across the street. They learn us really good here. 
I are Kommunications major here at SMC, and I had talking to people in my classes. They say that it is fun being Kommunications major! 
I have classes with students from Noter Dame and I like them. I cannot tell who is a Noter Dame student and who is a Saint Mary's student just from looking at them if they are in my classes. Well, unless they are a boy. 
Boys do not go to Saint Mary's. Boys go to Noter Dame. 
In my classes nobody looks more smart or acts more smart we are happy to have them in our classes. 
Every school is different, though. For instance, I have to take a COMP my senior year of college. 
Do you know what a COMP is? Neither do 
I. But just because schools are different does not mene that they are more smarter or more stupider. 
I are ofended that people would say that we here are just to get husbands and not be smart. I do not want husband yet. I are only a junior. 
I am worked as an editor here at the · paper. Do you like the paper? I like the paper. The paper is fun. 
Sometimes I am going to dances here at Noter Dame. Do you like dances? I like dances. Dances are fun. 
Last year I goed to Maynooth, which is in Iarlend. Even though Iarlend is a different country, they speaked well Inglish good. I had to go in a plane to get there. 
I don't like planes cause planes make my easrs go pop and it hurts when my eaars go pop and it makes what is in between my head hurt too when I ride in they.so I don't ride in planes that very much. 
I haved friends at Noter Dame and Saint Mary's and Holy Cross too. I don't think that anyone of my friends is stoopid. Just because you go to one school or another school does not make you more smarter or more stoopider. 
My friends do not think that I am stooped. They love me for who I am. My friends are good. Do you have friends? 
I knowed that what they speaked about at the Keenan Review was just a joke. I knowed then that Saint Mary's are not stoopid. I thinked then everyone else knowed that too. 
But I just want to be sure. After all, if people believe stereotypes, then they well believe everything that they are reading about stereotypes. And we know that's not true. 
So, in closing, I would like to say that Saint Mary's students am not stoopid. They learn us real good. 
For instance, I just got learned about 
satire. Do you now about satire? I like satire. Satire is good. 

The uiews expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Obseruer. 
• TooAv's STAFF  
News  Graphics  
Derek Betcher  Melissa Weber  
Allison Koenig  
Sports  Production  
Kathleen Lopez  Derek Betcher  
Viewpoint  John Hutchinson  
Tara Churik  
Accent  Lab Tech  
Megan Furstenfeld  Meghan Dooher  
Joe Weiler  

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
• 
WORLD AT A GLANCE 

• 
SOUTH BEND WEATHER 


5 Day South Bend Forcast 
AccuWeather® forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 
' \ 
(/''·---~--'' 
···.,, 


~~A4oa{)~u
,,,,,~,~ .....  ·:·.·:·::·::..-=--=­ 
Showers  T-storms  Rain  Flu·r;ies  S~o·~  Ice  Sunny  Pt. Cloudy  Cloudy  
Via Associated Press GrsphicsNet  

Wednesday, February 26, 1997
The Observer· INSIDE 
San Francisco mayor details night in Lincoln bedroom 
SAN FRANCISCO Brown, the former head of 
Mayor Willie Brown, one of the 
California's state Assembly 938 people granted a night's stay and one of the nation's most in the White House's Lincoln powerful black politicians, Bedroom, revealed some of the was asked why the president sordid details to reporters on had invited him to stay Tuesday. overnight. 
His overall assessment? Nice "Obviously, they were not furniture, lumpy mattress. trying to get anything from me 
Of the bed, he said: "You have to -I had nothing to give step up to get in, and it's not terri­them," the mayor chuckled. bly comfortable." The mattress "What they lost was every­felt like it hadn't been upgraded thing that wasn't tied down ... since Lincoln slept on it, he said. I took everything -every­The towels were worn. And, yes, thing that had 'White House' he swiped a few souvenirs. on it." 
Controversy over the Lincoln Pressed on that point, the Bedroom has intensified in recent mayor owned up to taking days amid reports that dozens of some stationery. He said he prominent Democratic donors, some who gave as much left the towels because they were worn and didn't have as $100,000 each, were rewarded with overnight stays. a White House logo. 
Princess Di plans to auction gowns  Tape catches women in dressing room  
NEW YORK  DOVER. N.H.  
What's a well-dressed royal to do  A photographer who took bridal portraits and portfo­ 
with a closet full of couture gowns? To  lios for aspiring models is accused of secretly videotap­ 
the auction block, my dear. Princess  ing his subjects in a basement dressing room where a  
Diana is selling 80 of her elegant  sign warned: "Attention Models!!! Please! No undergar­ 
evening dresses in hopes of raising  ments. Why? Because pantyhose, panties and bras cause  
millions of dollars for charity. "I hope  unsightly lines and bulges which are unacceptable for  
that people will enjoy this, that they'll  glamorous or model shows." By Tuesday, about 20  
buy the dresses to wear, to have fun in  women contacted police with fears they might have been  
them," Charles Hindlip of Christie's  victims of 71-year-old L!Jwrence Ring, who is accused of  
auction house said Tuesday. "Diana, Princess of Wales,  making the tapes for two decades and distributing some  
has got superb taste, and I think many people will want  of the pictures over the Internet. "They realize now they  
to emulate it." Christie's did not even guess how much  may have been taped," said Sgt. Anthony Colarusso.  
the gowns will bring when they go up for bids June 25.  "They're very upset because they don't feel they did any­ 
The gowns, five of which Christie's displayed at a pre­ thing wrong-and they didn't." Police accused the pho­ 
view Tuesday, range from a slinky number in white silk  tographer of going much further t)1an voyeurism with  
chiffon to the stately, ink-blue gown Diana wore to a  some of his subjects -including having sex on camera  
1986 White House dinner with the Reagans. Also on the  with a 15-year-old girl whose call to police last week led  
block will be a midnight-blue tulle dance dress, its tight  to Ring's arrest. Police Chief William Fenniman said Ring  
bodice and flouncy skirt dotted with diamond stars, and  paid women $15 an hour for modeling, $30 an hour for  
a straight, silk evening dress covered with faux pearls.  body painting and $150 an hour for acting in porno­ 
Diana's most celebrated gown will be notably absent  graphic movies. After searching Ring's house for about  
from the auction. The frothy, ill-fated wedding dress will  12 hours on Saturday, police charged him with sexual  
stay in the closet. The princess, in a statement Tuesday,  assault and said more charges are expected. Some 400  
pronounced herself "delighted that these dresses, which  hours of videotape and thousands of photo negatives  
gave me so much pleasure, may be enjoyed by others."  were seized, some going back so far that officers recog­ 
nized some of their own high school elassmates.  
Woman charged with feeding bears  Pickup truck rams car, kills young man  
TUCSON, Ariz.  TALLAHASSEE, Fla.  
Patricia Thomas doesn't deny she fed bears outside  A driver who became enraged when a carload of four  
her mountain cabin hand-packed French vanilla ice  young men honked at him at a light chased them down  
cream. There's even a photograph showing a bear lap­ and rammed their vehicle with his pickup truck, killing  
ping it up on her porch. If convicted of a misdemeanor  one of them, police said Tuesday. Howard Charles  
nuisance charge, she could face up to 30 days in jail and  Kendrick, 50, was jailed on charges of murder and  
a $500 fine. Feeding bears endangers people because  attempted murder. Police are investigating whether the  
the wild animals lose their innate fear of humans, say  attack was racially motivated and whether to charge him  
game officials, who accuse Ms. Thomas of feeding them  with a hate crime. He is white; the young men are black.  
ice cream on July 4th, just three weeks before a bear  Kendrick used his pickup "as a weapon to attaek these  
mauled a 16-year-old girl at a 4-H camp on another part  people," said police investigator David Folsom. Police  
of Mount Lemmon. Cadie Pruss, a game and fish officer,  said Kendrick, a university groundskeeper, had been  
testified at a hearing last month that an employee in a  drinking and turned angry when four youths honked at  
Baskin-Robbins store told her Ms. Thomas "would buy  him for not moving through a green light early Saturday.  
10 to 12 quarts of hand-packed French vanilla ice  Kendrick chased their car for three miles at speeds up to  
cream" for the bears. But Ms. Thomas' attorney,  100 mph before he rammed the small car, sending it into  
Bradford Brown, noted that the officer did not ask the  a fire hydrant, police said. Kendrick's pickup hit a utility  
clerk when the sales took place. He also argued that  pole, snapping it in two. Romondo Lamb, a 19-year-old  
game officials did not follow the proper procedures to  high school senior, died Monday after he was discon­ 
implement the nuisance ordinance. A prosecutor, a jus­ nected from life-support. The three other young men in  
tice of the peace and Ms. Thomas' attorney will try to  the car and Kendrick suffered minor injuries.  
resolve the misdemeanor charge of criminal nuisance.  

• NATIONAl WEATHER 
The AccuWeather®forecast for noon, Wednesday, Feb. 26. 
FRONTS: 
""T"""""T"" ............_ ....,...,.,... 
COLD WARM STATIONARY 
\0 1997 AccuWeather, Inc. 
Pr11ssure 

H L B 5SI ~ EZ.J. ~ 8 {) ~ u 
HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T·STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY 
VIS AssOCI&/ed Pre51i  
Anchorage  35  28  Flagstaff  33  21  New York  57  44  
Atlanta  67  56  Honolulu  80  68  Pittsburgh  58  45  
Boston  52  42  Indianapolis 48  43  St. Louis  44  35  
Chicago  34  30  Las Vegas  59  43  San Dieg?  62  52  
Dallas  54  39  Los Angeles 67  55  Yuma  68  49  

Wednesday, February 26, 1997 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Hey: Dependence shapes policy 
By LIZ NAGLE 
News Writer 
E~~onomic dependence, politi­cal will, and United States hege­mony were addressed yesterday in a lecture by Jeanne Hey, assistant professor in the politi­cal science department and the International Studies Program at Miami University. 
Hey shared results from her study of the processes underly­ing foreign policy of countries economically dependent on one primary "core" state. Specifically, she examined Latin American countries for which the core state is the United States. 
''I'm reading widely what scholars and practitioners are saying about Latin America and seeing what patterns I can find," she said. 
Hey has developed her own typology to classify dependent foreign policies. The system sep­arates policy outcome and policy maker's ·preference into pro­core and anti-core categories, based on their consistency with the policies of the core state. 
Consensus, compliance, com­pensation, and counter depen­dence were what she termed the four potential policy out­comes. Hey's current project is to determine when, why, and how each of these trends devel­ops. 
During her lecture, Hey focused primarily on the anti­core policy outcomes of compen­sation and counter dependence. Counter dependence, ·she told the audience, may result from policy makers' efforts to defend national interests against the pressures of the core state. It could also stem from a nation's desire to gain regional prestige, or simply from its own anti­imperialist feelings. 

"Whether or not a foreign pol­icy will oppose the U.S. will often depend on the policy maker's preference," Hey said. 
In some cases, she explained, anti-core policy will be achieved despite the policy maker's pro­core inclinations because of efforts to compensate for the state's [usually economic] dependence. 
"Political reasons are not suf­ficient to explain why pro-core leaders will support anti-core policy," Hey said. She stated that policy makers occasionally find it necessary to support anti­core policies to create an image of independence that assuages anti-imperialist sentiment. 
According to Hey, anti-core actions need special circum­stances to develop for policy independence. Economic pros­perity is one such factor which encourages independent policy making. The end of the Cold 

is looking for a 
CONT '8LLER* PURCHASI ;(, ANAGER. 
Calll-5313 with questions. Interested? Submit resume to 314 LaFortune. 
These are paid positions. 
*Candidates for Controller must be a junior or senior accounting major. 
Comedy Writers & Aetors Wanted! 
ND Humor Artists: Notre Dame's only sketch comedy group. 
We write, we act, we organize our own shows. In addition to sketch comedy, we also perform improv and video shows. We are looking for fresh writers and actors (You can write or act or both.) Our meetings are held Thursdays 7-9pm and Sundays 3-Spm. 
WHY NOT COME TOMORROW??? 
Thursday@ 7pm in the Library Auditorium . 
Any questions, please call Denis at 4x1832. 
War has also created opportuni­. ties for anti-core policy because 
U.S. 
intervention is less likely now that Latin America is no longer threatened by Soviet influence. Anti-core policy is also able to develop when the 

U.S. 
is obliged to support democracy for ideological rea­sons. 


However, Hey noted that the dominant factor in determining whether or not it will occur is geographic. Economic policy of Latin American countries, for instance, is very rarely anti-core because of the economic pres­sures from within the core state. 
Acceptance of a global trend toward a nco-liberal model of development is also a factor; economic policy will almost always fall into the categories of consensus and compliance. 
Political or diplomatic policy, on the other hand, allows a greater degree of defiance toward the core state. Hey said she will further explore the dif­ferences between economic and diplomatic areas of policy mak­ing in the future. 
The lecture, "Latin American Foreign Policy toward the U.S.: Can We Agree to Disagree?" was held at the Hesburgh Center for International Studies. 

Being There••• 
The Observer/Katie Kroener 

Last night, the Chicago band Wilco treated a small Stepan Center crowd to a dynamic show. Front man Jeff Tweedy (above) led the charge in ranging from the mellow to the intense. 


1997 Black Catholic Series-Part IV 
Lecture and Discussion: 
"No Color, No Culture, No Faith" 
Tonight! 
7:30p.m. 

Hesburgh Library Lounge 
Fr. Edward B. Branch Director -The Catholic Center Atlanta University Center, Atlanta, Georgia 
Sponsored by Campus Ministry 
• 
page 4 
ReforiD 
continued from page 1 
Kelly said. Mary Gillard, co-president of 

Knott Hall and recently appointed chief of staff for the future Griffin/Nass administra­tion, was present at the meet­ing and voted in favor of the proposed reforms. 
"A lot of people don't under­stand what student govern­ment does and hopefully this [reformed constitution] will help them," Gillard said. 
The reform committee's pre­sentation of the proposal to the senate is scheduled for this afternoon and a vote on its rec­ommendations is expected on March 5. 
Pending approval by both student senate and the office of the vice-president pf Student Affairs, Patricia O'Hara, implementation of the reforms could begin as early as mid­March and continue through September. 
Renshaw 
continued from page I 
trip to London. Eleven women, ten from Saint Mary's and one from Notre Dame, departed on Renshaw's first overseas expedition as a tour guide. 
"I had a blast," said Saint Mary's senior Corrie Hanrahan. 
"We went to forget school for a while and to have fun," said Renshaw. "My wife and I took the group on walking tours, to the pubs, and we taught them the ways of the Underground," he said. 
Many of the girls had a favorite sightseeing experi­ence. 
"I loved my visit to the Tower of London," said Saint Mary's student Tara Mooney. 
"This crazy beefeater, Tony of the Tower, gave us the tour, and it was amazing to walk on the same stairs that queens and kings had used, and to see the gallery where the armour of King Henry Vlll was on dis­play," she added. 
"There was always some­thing going on, and we were constantly out and about," said Hanrahan. 
"I felt really comfortable tak­ing the Underground by myself at the end of the week," she 
TEACH EM;USH in ' ----• -EAST-ERN.£VROPE­
PRAGUE • BUDAPEST • KRAKOW How would you like to teach basic conve:-oational English in Eastern Europe? Our matertaJs .P.rofile _many rewarding teaching ~pportu;Ottles wtth great benefits. For mfonnd10n, call: (206) 971-3680 
w. ·~. -·"".""""'"" ~ Ext. 1<55845 

EMPLOYMENT IN AMERICA'S 
NATIONAL PARKS 
Find out how to begin your JOb search in National Parl<s, Forests. and Wildlife Preserves. 
Learn from the #1 Source that uncovers hundreds of employment opportunities in the great outdoors. 
·Seasonal & Year-Round 
• Excellent Benefits 

-~~----~----------­
Wednesday, February 26, 1997
The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS 
Elections 
continued from page 1 
dent), Joann Searfoss (secretary), and Lori Riebe (treasurer) captured 7.5 percent of the vote while 6.5 percent abstained. 
"We thought all of the tickets were great / and we are happy for them and know they'll do a great job next year. We plan on still being involved in our senior class activities," Riebe said. 
The Class of 1999 mu'st face a runoff between the Wehby and Desmarteau tick­ets. 
Katie Wehby (president), Tysus Jackson (vice president). Nicole Kraimer (secre­tary), and Becky Deitle (treasurer) earned 4 7 percent of the sophomore class vote. 
"Just looking at our platform shows our great ideas. They are new and innovative and we feel that our experience best qual­ifies us to lead the Class of '99," said Webby. 
Charise Desmarteau (president), Julie Steciuk (vice president), Kate Moot (secre­tary) and Ann Marie Roche (treasurer) received 25 percent of the vote. 
"I see this as a great opportunity for our class to make some changes. I think there is a need for some new ideas to be implB­
said. 
Renshaw is a busy man. On March 6, he will spend the day in D.C. 
"There is a day each year which is set aside as National Tax Day, and next Thursday I will work in the phone bank at USA Today headquarters in D.C.," Renshaw said. 
National Tax Day is spon­sored by USA Today in con­junction with the American Institute of Certified Accountants. USA Today will publish an 800 number and people from all over the coun­try can call in and ask for help with their taxes. 
Renshaw has helped out for years on local television and radio shows where people call in with tax questions. He also resides on a committee in Washington. 
"The AICPA invites about 72 CPA's from around the country to participate in National Tax Day, and I am excited to have this opportuni­ty," Renshaw said. 
In the midst of all the excite­ment, Renshaw has a reunion planned for his London group. He will host the group at his house on Sunday. 
"I am looking forward to seeing everyone on Sunday, because I taped the trip and I can't wait to share it with the group," said Saint Mary's sophomore Tara Thomas. 
per§on 

mented and we would be eager to try out new ideas if the class would give us a chance," said Desmarteau. 
The Malecki ticket, consisting of Lynette Malecki (president), Tara Thomas (vice president). Stephanie Villinski (secretary), and Colleen Campbell (treasurer) gained 
19.5 percent of the vote, 8.5 percent abstaining. 
··..;:·.:.:: 


'l~t!s~~~sa!~:r~~!~~t~t:;~ 
.resent tHem next·year. W.eare ready to get going and start implementing everything that we discussed on our platform.' 
Lisa Coury, Class of'98 
"I am happy to see that there is a runoff and a possibility for a change," Thomas noted. 
The Class of 2000 balloted decisively, electing Nancy Midden (president), Angie Little (vice president), Julie Duba (secre­tary) and Michelle· Samretta (treasurer) in a landslide. Their ticket captured 71.1 percent of the freshman vote. 
"I am very excited and am looking for­ward to working with the members of our class," said Midden. 
The Midden ticket ran against Janet Horvath (president), Aryn Seminara (vice president), Sarah Clinger (secretary) and Erin Vartabedian (treasurer) who received 18.7 percent of the vote. 
"It was a very good race and I wish Nancy Midden and her entire party good luck for the following year," said Horvath. 
The landslide came largely because the opposing Martin ticket withdrew. Consisting of Kimmi Martin (president), Erin Hall (vice president), Bridget Hefferman (secretary) and Belmarie Gonzalez-Esteyez (treasurer), the ticket pulled out Monday night. 
"Our ticket withdrew the night before the election and we want to let everyone know that we will continue to remain active in the class, we are not quitting, just postpon­ing for a while," said Martin. 
"With these results it's clear that the freshman class has noticed the Midden ticket's hard work and has confidence that they are the leaders of the Class of 2000," said Emily Miller, elections commissioner. 
Voting in the runoff election for the Class of 1999 will take place on Thursday in the dining hall. 
Like to write? 
The Observer is looking for good writers. Call 1-5323 
Notre Dame Communication 
30% off allgames ··.·.
•

F$:7 
t •. I I I 
[;~;~ '.. :. ··:t 1,0, , ...... I ..,
..___________,.___~_ ....
!c •tteq.,..i;i. ~,lr.. /11!171; I 
Michiana Paintball 
291-9482 1/2 prlca • $5 par parson 
Call ahoad lor location and rosorvatlons! 
COLLEGE 
FOOTBALL 
H,~.~!-.~..1~~ 2 for 1 admission 
Hofferth Chiropractic I Massage 256-1008 112 hr. $19 and 1 hr. $38 Either deal can be between dates! 
Buy 16 wings,  Swiss Valley:  
get 10 free.  Men's Day  
One coupon per couple. Not valid wl any other  Full day= $12 + $8  
offers.  rentals. Before 1 p.m.  
OTIIER lDEAS: Raquetball and Rocco's  and Siam • Chuck E. Cheese and Checkers •  

IJazer Tag and IJula's • Ice Cream and Ice Skating • Basketball and Bruno's • l'ool and l'apa John's • Bowling and Bibler's • 
Wednesday, February 26, 1997 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS page 5 
Assenga: SMC offers community ND applies code of 
conduct to licensing 
Tanzanian student relates thoughts on US. 
By RACHEL TORRES News Writer 
She came halfway across the world to go to Saint Mary's College. 
Last night in Stapleton Lounge, Prediganda Assenga addressed a full audience of students, teachers, and admin­istrators about her experiences at Saint Mary's as a student from Tanzania, Africa. 
Growing up in a small village of 500 as one of twelve chil­dren in her family, Assenga did not know much outside of her own experiences. 
"I used to think that every­body in the world was Catholic, because everybody who lived in my village was," she said. 
She attended Mama Clementine University for one year. which is similar to a U.S. high school. 
There, she became part of a non-profit organization which sponsored her education at Saint Mary's. 
To Assenga, college life at Saint Mary's is "a dream come true. I do indeed love it." 
She will remember her years at Saint Mary's through her friends. caring teachers, prac­tice of her faith, and a com­fortable life. In essence, the school represents everything Assenga wanted. 
Assenga took time to extend a sincere thanks to her teach­ers at Saint Mary's."Not once in my four years here were they too busy to take time for me." She also praises the "sis­ters here who have touched my life." 
Her friends contributed to many memorable experiences for Assenga, especially her travels to Connecticut, Vermont, Boston, New York, and California. 
She is looking forward to a spring break trip to Florida with her friends in a few weeks. 
"I am amazed at how com­fortable life is in the United States," she commented, "Tanzania is the second poor­est country in the world. You should all consider yourselves among the luckiest people just for being Americans." 
She espeCially noted the dif­ferences between the US and Tanzania with regards to tech­nology and transportation. Assenga noted that technology such as computers, fax machines, and modems make life in America so much easier than life in Tanzania. 
Also, transportation in the US is comparatively easy for her; "travel on busses with goats and chickens is a way of life in my country," Assenga says. 
In America, Assenga has continued her learned habit of drinking a full glass of water before every meal. "[In Tanzania] it filled my stomach before a simple meal of just one banana," she said. 
Keeping this in mind, 
Assenga is "amazed" to see the 
trays of food people throw 
away at Saint Mary's every day 
in the dining hall. 
Assenga is looking forward 

The Observer/ Manuela Hemandez Prediganda Assenga, a Saint Mary's student from Tanzania, spoke last night in Stapleton Lounge about observations she had made about the United States. 
to returning to Tanzania when she graduates, after having been away for four years. 
She wants to be seen as a role model for other Tanzanians who can't come to the United States for college. 
Assenga will miss most the strong sense of community Saint Mary's has provided, along with her friendships, but she is eager to go home to enrich her people with the knowledge she has gained here. 

By MICHAEL LEWIS News Writer 
For over 150 years, Notre Dame has demanded that its fac­ulty, staff, and students abide by a code of conduct that is appro­priate for a Catholic University. Now any individual or business that enters into a licensing agreement with the institution will have to do the same. 
According to the new code of conduct, Notre Dame is "com­mitted to conducting its business affairs in a socially responsible manner consistent with its reli­gious and educational mission," and "expects nothing less of its business partners and licensees." 
The Code of Conduct will apply to all licensees, as well as their contractors, subcontractors, ven­dors, manufacturers, sub licensees and any related entities throughout the world which pro­duce or sell products or materials incorporated in products which bear the name, trademarks, or images of the university. 
The penalty to licensees for violating the Code of Conduct will be termination of business or implementation of a correc­tive action plan. 
There are several ways in which these licensees must meet Notre Dame's standards. They must comply with all applicable legal requirements in producing or selling products with Notre Dame's name or insignia on it. 
They also must share Notte Dame's commitment to the pro­tection and preservation of the global environment. 
Honesty, integrity, trustworthi­
ness, and respect for the unique 
intrinsic value of the human 
being are standards that the 
licensees must observe. Any 
Notre Dame contractor or 
licensee is expected to value and 
practice business ethics. 
Labor is another important 
tenant of Notre Dame's Code of 
Conduct for licensees. Workers 
must work voluntarily, not be at 
risk of physical harm, be fairly 
compensated and not exploited 
in any way. 
The wages and benefits pro­. vided should comply with applic­
able laws and match or exceed 
the local standards. Companies 
must not overwork their employ­
ees and provide acceptable com­
pensation for overtime labor. 
The work environment must 
be safe and healthy, and any res­
idential facilities the company 
provides should also meet health 
standards. The ability of workers 
to do their jobs should be the 
sole determinant of whether they 
are hired; discrimination is intol­
erable. 
Licensees must avoid corporal 
punishment and psychological or 
physical coercion. Any company 
that produces Notre Dame 
authorized products must do so 
in a country whose human rights 
standard agree with those of the 
university. 
If local laws disagree with the 
standards of the Code of 
Conduct, licensees should not 
produce products in that coun­
try. The nation in question must 
also have a political, economic, 
and social environment that 
threatens neither Notre Dame's 
reputation nor commercial or 
other interests. 

Fireside Chat .......................................................... Speaker Rosemary Houghton Associate Director
Tolkien: A Different Way of Seeing 
Friday, February 28th 
12:00 Noon Notre Dame Room LaFortune Student·Center 


page 6 The Observer • NEWS Wednesday, February 26, 1997 

• WEST BANK 

Israeli soldiers kill Palestinian 
By SAMAR ASSAD 
Associated Press Writer 
HIZME, West Bank 
Israeli soldiers in civilian clothing opened fire in a West Bank village Tuesday, killing one Palestinian and wounding three. Troops used tear gas to quell later clashes with stone­throwing Palestinians. 
The army said the shooting occurred during a confrontation between soldiers and villagers in Hizme, just north of Jerusalem, an area that is under joint Israeli and Palestinian control. 
It heightened fears of a new wave of violence in the West Bank, which is already tense because of Israel's plan to build a new Jewish neighborhood in east Jerusalem. Palestinians, who hope to establish a capital in east Jerusalem, warn the con­struction could derail the peace process. 
Witnesses said the shooters were dressed in civilian clothes and Israel TV said they were from an elite undercover unit. 

Eisner could collect big in deal 
By E. SCOTT RECKARD 
Associated Press Wrirer 
ANAHEIM, Calif. 
Walt Disney Co. Chairman Michael Eisner could collect $300 million in stock and salary over the next decade under a new contract overwhelmingly approved by the company's shareholders. 
Eisner said the deal was based strictly on the company's performance since he took over as chief executive in 1984. In that time, he said, the value of Disney stock has soared from $2 billion to $50 billion. 
Shareholders at Tuesday's annual meeting approved the contract by a 7-1 margin, and rejected resolutions requiring Disney to more strongly police foreign workplaces and exam­ine pay policies to link them to job performance. 
Dozens of picketers outside the meeting accused Disney of exploiting foreign workers while fattening the wallets of top executives. 
"It would take a Haitian 16.8 years to earn Eisner's hourly income of $9,783," said a sign carried by Diane Rice, a retired 

Voted Best Wings in Michiana! 
Wings Weekly Specials 

Food and
of all 

mucll more! 
MONDAY 
25C wings 
TUESDAY & WEDNESDAY ._...__,More than just wings! 
THURSDAY 
Feast for Four 
$1995 
•SOwings 
•Curly 
Fries 

•One 
Drink


Darts 

Pitcher 
ASK ABOUT OUR WALL OF FLAME 
838 University Center 6502 Grape Road 
(between Service Merchandise & Best Buy) Phone 273-0088 

!age armed with handguns and speaking Hebrew were Jewish settlers. 
They walklld up to his house, grabbed his nephew and "hit him with the butts of their guns," he said. When confront­ed by family members, the men opened fire, he said. Soldiers posted at a nearby checkpoint refused to help and an army jeep entered the village and left with the gunmen, he said. 
Yossi Shoval, spokesman for Jerusalem's Hadassah hospital, identified the dead man as Mohammed Abdel Aziz Abu Hallowi, 56. He said Hallowi was wounded in the knee and was dead on arrival. 
An army statement said the Israeli troops had been attacked by Palestinian residents and fired. 
"From the shots, one Palestinian was killed, another was injured seriously, and two others lightly," the statement said, stressing that "it was a shooting by Israeli soldiers and not a shooting by civilians." 
Diamond Price Quotations 219 I 246-1939 
Thinking of purchasing a diamond? Choose wisely, with information in our complimentary book, Diamonds Magnified, and clear advice about how to select an affordable diamond. 
The Diamond Authoricy®
A Division ofJohn M. Marshall's, Inc. 
KeyBank Building, Suite #101 South Bend, Indiana 46601 
Jury finds"''du Pont guilty of murder 
Sentence takes mental illness into account 
Associated Press 

MEDIA, Pa. 
Multimillionaire John E. 
du Por1t was found guilty·. of 
-murder Tuesday, but jurors 
spared him a possible life 
sentence, deciding that 
mental illness . Phtyed a role 
in his fatal shooting of an 
Olympic wrestler. . 
The jurors decided that du 
Pont · committed third­
degree murder, ot murder 
without premeditated intent, 
but was also mentally ill. 
The conviction means du 
J>onr..»'ill lJkely spend time 
in a"mental hospital, and 
then begin. serving prison a 
sentence of 20 to 40 years; 
if 

The sentence also carries 
a $50,000 fine. Judge 
Patril.)ia Jenkins. will hold a 
hearing to determine if du 
Pont should go to a mental 
hospital to setve at least 
part of the sentence. ·tV Du Pont also was convict· 
ed oftwo counts of assault 
.fgr pginting his gun at 
wrestler David Schultz's 
wife, Nancy, and his securi­
ty t:Qnsultatlt. 

Both sides agreed that the 
chemical fortune heir was 
mentally ill when he shot 
Schultz, 36, on Jan. 26, 1996, outside the wrestler's qome on du Pont's estate, Foxcatcher Farms. 
But prosecutors said his illness stopped short of legal insanity -the inability to te}l rightfrom wrong. 
They said du Pont killed Schultz because he was jeal­(lus of the respect the gold medalist at the 1984 Olympics commanded in the wrestling world. 
Defense attornElys and the experts they called said Du Pont, 58, was a paranoid schizophrenic who fancied himself as the Dalai Lama, the Christ Child and other grandiose figures. 
They said he could not tell right from wrong when he shot Schultz thr13e times in his driveway, the third time in the back while Schultz's wife watched. 
Jurors had the choice of acquitting him by reason of insanity, finding him guilty hut mentally ill, or guilty of first-degree murder. third­degree murder or voluntary manslaughter. . 
Jurors apparently rejected the insanity defense early in their delil)erations. based on the questions they asked the judge. 
Several times, they asked for the differences between first-degree murder, third· degree ·murder and manslaughter. 
Dressed to . Kill on Your 21st! 
Happy 8-Day McCarth 

Love, Bulldog, 
0 'Reilly, and 
Brower 
school librarian. 
Sanford Litvack, Disney's director of corporate opera­tions, defended the company's policies regarding foreign workers. He said the company aggressively enforces a strict code of conduct for licensees and contractors. 
But loud cheers went up when someone in the audience called Litvack arrogant, and boos erupted when he denied that morale among Disney's workers had suffered because of recent benefit cutbacks. 
Speaking to a crowd of 10,000, Eisner took personal responsibility for the debacle involving his friend Michael Ovitz, who spent 14 months as Disney's president in a botched attempt to carve out a role as Eisner's second in command. 

Wednesday, February 26, 1997 The Observer • NATIONAL NEWS page 7 
Crude oil Budget manuevering heats up 
By DAVID ESPO 

soybeafts Associated Press Writer 
WASHINGTON 
The balanced budget amend­ment to the Constitution teetered on the brink on

Crude and its ... 
Tuesday as a pivotalrebounded .Tl1e · 

Democratic freshman endorsedrecent lows in 

the and

on the New York ·~"·-"'"._. measure one final 
uncommitted senator weighedExch?i1ge 

a make-or-break decision. 

workers N.i1!ter·in~ 
"It's the right thing to do,"

try threatened to strike. 
Sen. Mary Landrieu, D-La., said On other commodity 

in announcing she would votekets,. soyhel}n futur;e • 

for the Republican-crafted

sharply, while copper measure despite reservations. 
retreated. 
Barring any last-minute

A Nigerian oil workers·FX switches, Landrieu's decisionwhite-collar trade union said 
appeared to leave the fate of

it will strike Friday ifJanuary / the amendment in the hands ofand February back salaries Sen. Bob Torricelli, D-N.J., whoaren't paid. Nigeria exports .. 
pledged to disclose his decisionslightly more than 2 million;;; on Wednesday.

barrels of oil a day and about · Torricelli supported the mea­half of that goes to the U.S. 
sure two years ago in the

market. 
House. He has been uncommit­

Even with Iraq's f~cen 
ted since his election to the

return to world oil markets, Senate in November, even asany disruption from Nigeria the White House andcould cause short·term . 
Democratic leaders have lob­tightness, said analyst bied him to oppose the mea­

Evans at Pegasus · 
sure now.

Econometric Group. 
And at day's end, the White

"The question is Wh~ther ........n<>ri.·;.rle.en}Jress~lrea 
House addtessed one of

strike would mean an inter~ Torricelli's concerns when itruption in the flow of oil," quietly announced creation of a Evans said. "These are white­
presidential commission to

collar workers -the 
study capital budgeting. 

who afflx the official stamp 
"I understand the enormitythe bill of lading. It doesn't of the moment," Torricelli said sound quite as critical as if as he pondered his decision. 

were talking about the With a final vote expected byworking actually loading th 
early next week, the party's

crude oil." 
leaders seemed locked in a warGasoline futures of nerves. 

support on the N 
Senate Democratic leader Tom Daschle, leading the oppo­sition, conceded, "our momen­

Need a job for the 1997-98 
tum has lost a couple of wheels" with Landrieu's announcement. He added, though, "I think it is entirely 
possible we could win this." 
Majority Leader Trent Lott 

academic year? 
Student Activities is now ~ 
told reporters he could count "about 66" votes for the mea­

accepting applications for: I 
~:;1~~~!~;;,~!1~~~~:: 
Ballroom Monitors Sound Technicians Games Room Attendants Building Set Up Crew 2 4 Hour Lounge Monitors ND Cake Service 
Applications are available at 3 1 5 LaFortune 
~ 

would like to thank the following businesses for their generous donations towards ~ ~. held on February 8, 1997: 
+ MACRI'S DELI +ANTHONY TRAVEL + DON PABLO'S 
+ SPAGEDDIES ITALIAN KITCHEN +THE ALUMNI ASSOCIATION 
+FUN TAN, INC +MEIJER + MARCO'S PIZZA + SPIECE + USA FITNESS 
And to all who attended! 
sure, one shy of the two-thirds needed to prevail, but suggest­ed there may be a surprise or two. 
"There's more than one sen­ator who is still considering how to vote on final passage," he said with an air of mystery. 
Privately, though, GOP aides said Republicans were pre­pared to let the measure fail rather than bow to Democratic demands for changes. These aides, speaking on condition of anonymity, noted that all 55 Senate Republicans are lined up to vote for the measure, but thus far, only 11 of 45 Democrats have done so -a 

· breakdown that would make it relatively easy to make an issue of the measure's defeat at the next election. The measure, a cornerstone .of the Republican legislative agenda, would require a bal­anced budget by 2002 and require a three-fifths vote of Congress to run a deficit any year thereafter. · The drama surrounding Landrieu and Torricelli over­shadowed the day's debate oh the Senate floor, where Democrats failed, 55-44, in an effort to exempt Social Security from the provisions of the amendment. Failure to do so, cautioned Sen. Edward M. Kennedy, D­Mass., would make the trust fund that pays for Social Security into a "piggy bank" for 
other programs. 
Republicans argued that they, 
too, wanted to protect Social 
Security, but countered that the 
only way to do it was to include 
it in the amendment. 
·:You put Social Security out there and it is totally, totally without defense in terms of what Congress can do with the surplus" in the trust fund, said ·Sen. Pete V. Domenici, R-N.M. He said the proposal "provides an excuse" for former support­ers of the amendment to 
oppose it now. 
Social Security was one of the 
reservations cited by Landrieu 
as she disclosed her decision. 
She told reporters she would 
vote for rival versions of the 
amendment that would exempt 
the program from the amend­
ment and also provide for sep­
arate budgeting for construc­
tion projects. 
These versions are not 
expected to pass, however, and 
Landrieu said she would vote 
for the Republican version of 
the measure on the decisive 
roll call. 
She said her decision was 
"based on many statements 
made during the campaign on 
this issue." 
Landrieu thus joined fellow 
southern Democratic freshman 
Max Cleland of Georgia as a 
reluctant supporter of the 
amendment. A third swing vote 
-freshman Democratic Sen. 
Tim Johnson of South Dakota, 
announced his opposition to the 
bill last week, even though he 
had voted for it two years ago 
in the House. 
That left Torricelli, and if 
Republicans relished turning 
the spotlight on him, he seemed 
to welcome the attention. 
"This is big time stuff," said 
Sen. Orrin Hatch, R-Utah, one 
of the leading supporters of the 
measure. "I've been around 
her for 21 years and I've never 
seen a larger issue." 

VIEWPOINT 
page 8 Wednesday, February 26, 1997 
THE OBSERVER 
NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY'S OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1996-97 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Elizabeth Foran Managing Editors Business Manager Patricia Carson Matt Casey Tom Roland 
News Editor ....................Brad Prendergast Advertising Manager .......................... Ellen Ryan Viewpoint Ediror ................... Ethan Hayward Ad Design Manager. ............................. Jed Peters Sports Editor .....................Timothy Sherman Production Manager .....................Heather Cocks Accent Editor........................... Joey Crawford Systems Manager ...................... Michael Brouillet Saint Mary's Editor ......... Caroline Blum Controller ......................................... Tyler Weber Photo Editor .......................... Michael Ruma 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by che students of the University of Notre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. Ir does not necessarily reflect the policies of the adminisrra~ rion of either institution. The new~ is reponed as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned edi­torials represenr the opinion of rhe majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Ediror, Accent Editor, Pharo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Columns presenr rhe views of rhe authors, and nor necessarily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of rhe Notre Dame/Saint Mary's com­munity and ro all readers. The free expression of varying opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 
Editor-in-Chief 631-4542 Business OHlce 631-5313 Managing Editor/Viewpoint 631-4541 Advertising 631-6900/8841) Sports 631-4543 Systems/Marketing Dept. 631-8839 News/Photo 631-5323 Office Manager 631-7471 Accenr/Sainr Mary's 631-4540 Fax 631-6927 Dav Editor/Production 631-5303 Viewpoint E-Mail Viewpoint.! @nd.edu Ge~eral Information 631-7471 Ad E-Mail observer@daf\Vin.cc.nd.edu 

• Goo 'N l!FE 

Cease spiritual deprivation 
In stageplays like Guys and Dolls, old The priests and religious who venture into movies or television shows, those who mission territories may not always have the sought shelter and food at a "mission" were fluency to proclaim God to the natives in the also subjected to a sermon by some well­local language. Still, their actions portray intentioned minister or lay person. It was the existence of a loving Father without hav­part of the "ritual" of poverty. Yet, a deeper ing to utter a sound. Many members of the significance could be attached to the cus­laity, by giving of time that might be other­tom, in many ways lost now. It has long wise spent watching television, playing been known that to deny a body food is to sports or pursuing an assortment of leisure activities, arc concrete proof that there is more to life than being "comfortable" and "having tim." An hour or two spent consol­
Julie 

ing the sick as a hospital volunteer, working in a soup kitchen or with a youth ministry may seem fruitless at first, but there is
Ferraro 

always a "trial period." Tn persevere in the 
task -day after day or week after week ­
those who see the familiar face will also rec­kill it, and to deny the soul sustenance ognize in that same willing soul an honesty through God's word is to cripple it. Spiritual that may give nourishment to their spirits. starvation is, perhaps, as common as physi­Of course, there are some starved souls cal starvation in present times. All one need who may never recover their health. It is do is listen to a news broadcast to confirm not like some eager "savior" can pressure the rampant crime and devastation wrought such a one, nor can he or she be aban­by souls wasting away from lack of the Good doned. More often than not, these "hope­News. Though God loves such souls uncon­less" are the true test of personal spiritual ditionally, they have either refused His well-being. If we can forego the desire to sweet nourishment of their own free will, or push ourselves on others, instead step baek it has never been offered to them, like an and consign the "weaker" soul to God infant never given a bottle. through prayer, then He to whom no one is 
The majority of the world's ills pour forth hopeless may intervene -nourish that soul from these starved souls. After all, where -and bring it back to health. there is regular. sincere prayer, a true The one thing that never must be allowed intention of Christian living and a willing­to happen is for the spiritually healthy soul ness to accept God wherever He is found -to let itself starve. Discouragement in a par­everywhere -peace, love and harmony ticular ministry, in a eareer, in the family thrive. What can be done? may make it seem that daily prayer, reading 
In most cases, it is almost impossible to and other practices have little effect on the force a starved soul to partake of divine outcome of events. Through it all -for the nourishment, just a<> starving bodies cannot Lord challenges those lie loves -prayer handle solid food. Anyone with the lofty idea must continue to sustain the soul, like water of "converting these poor wretches" entirely from an oasis in a vast desert. by word of mouth will find little success. Only Faith must endure, perhaps only a crust of the soul fed by prayer, Scripture and genuine bread for a weary soul, but still nourish­faith will understand that more can be ment. Only for those who let these precious accomplished by example than by words. tidbits slip away do things become "worse", 
Take those who have heard God's call and, does the soul starve. To hold on is to believe with careful preparation, answered whole­in God's eternal love, that He will sustain us heartedly. Mother Teresa did not barge with His lifegiving Word through all our around shouting how much God loved the troubles. He lays a feast before His people ­poor Indian ghetto dwellers: She simply took a banquet of His love. There is no reason the dying off the streets, offered them com­any should starve. passion and made them comfortable. She Julie Ferraro is a secretary in the showed them God's love enfleshed. Friemann Life Science Center . 
• LETTER To THE EDITOR 
Tom Clancy: A second look 
Dear Editor: instead of rewarding young writers and 
It is ama?Jng how two people can see poets for their intellectual contributions, the same thing and later describe it so we, the audience and society, are shun­differently. Thomas Coyne and I both ning them in order to indulge in attended the Tom Clancy reading and Clancy's "mindless drivel" of "cheap question session during the Sophomore thrills and unearned suspense." While I 
·literary Festival, but I feel his interpre­agree that the intellectual contribution 
tation of Clancy in The Observer is total­of unknown writers is something to 
ly incorrect. While Coyne was watching appreciate, I am not so eager to reject 
an arrogant monster who writes mind­the literary merit of Clancy. 
less drivel. l was admiring an author The style of writing Clancy utilizes is 
whose intelligence and writing skills are called story-telling. He simply tells sto­
paving the way !or a new genre of liter­ries about imaginary people living in 
ature. While Coyne maliciously attacked today's world. Like no other author of 
Clancy, I will defend both his statements today, except perhaps John Grisham, 
during the evening and his writing. Clancy knows how to tell a captivating 
First. I will agree with Coyne that tale. How else can you explain millions Clancy appeared arrogant. But you earn of readers willing to tum through seven $31 million a year and have millions of hundred pages to see how the story people reading your books and try to ends? The fact is that people love to remain humble. Anybody who has 31 escape into his books as they would into million reasons to tell him that what a movie. People are willing to experi­he's doing and believes is correct is ence new things through his books, and bound to become somewhat arrogant. Clancy is willing to provide the enter­
Besides being arrogant, however, tainment to do so. Clancy is also very realistic. He doesn't Don't discount this style of ""Titing. write poetry for the simple fact that he From the Iliad to The Three Musketeers needs to earn an income to feed his to the common fairy tale, story-telling is a family. That makes si}nse to me. He centuries-old technique. While these sto­doesn't support the N<;~,tional ries may differ in complexity, they don't Endowment of the Arts. That's too bad! necessarily differ in value. They provide We can always use another abstract entertainment. a quality that makes sculpture or recycled automotive parts readers curious, fascinated, and delight­in front of the art building, especially ed. Being simply a form of entertainment one paid for by our tax money. doesn't lessen the value ofClancy's books 
Even Clancy's controversial statements but is a value within itself. make sense. Calling Gandhi arrogant Coyne is taking a much too negative seems correet when you put it into con­approach toward Clancy and his books. text. How confident of passive resistance When one understands what Clancy is would Gandhi have been had he been saying it may be arrogant but also may opposing Saddam Hussein in Iraq instead be correct. To condemn his books as of the relatively docile English govern­"mindless drivel" insults Clancy and the ment? Clancy also realistically stated that many people who read them. as much as poets and writers have done While measuring literature as gdod or to establish it, the U.S. would not have bad or drivel is a subjective procflss, it is freedom of the press ifit were not for the difficult to contest the value of books soldiers who fought in the Revolutionary millions have read and loved. Clancy War to win that right and others. As far has perfected the art of story-telling in as his comment regarding women's right his literary time. If Coyne doesn't like to vote, it is very possible that he joked that fact, I suggest he just not read the that granting the right was a mistake books. because women generally tend to vote Democratic, whereas he is a Republican. PATRICK O'SHAUGHNESSY 
Finally there is Coyne's statement that Freshman, Dillon Hall 
• DOONESBURY GARRY TRUDEAU 
• Uucrn: OF THE DAY 
"Art is long, life short, judgment difficult, opportunity transient." -Johann Wolfgang von Gothe 

VIEWPOINT
Wednesday, February 26, 1997 page 9 
• LETTERS TO THE tDITOR 
Student government election judges issues, not gender 
Dear Editor: 
I am writing to thank Patrick Perri for his in-depth explanation in his letter of Feb. 21 as to why women should have voted for the Matt Szabo and Mary Gillard ticket. However, it bothers me that he presumes to have license to attack the women of Notre Dame about our voting and declares we need instructions about who to vote for and what to think. In a patronizing tone, he felt he had to "spell it out" for the women of Notre Dame; we are "afraid to live up to changing gender roles," and that somehow voting for Mary Gillard would "emancipate" us all from social conservatism. 
Perri's audacious belief that the most important issue for women in this election was the sex of Mary Gillard is offensive to the student body, and should be to Mary Gillard herself. The fact that Gillard is an experienced and capable candidate and a woman is not a novel concept. She is a woman and politician with views that -I know this is hard to believe Patrick -may not be shared by every other person of her gender. 
Perri pled his rambling, incoherent case for the Szabo/Gillard ticket and now Notre Dame knows why HE voted the way he did. He relies on Allison Koenig's opinion that Gillard was the best candidate from an experience standpoint and he proclaims that Gillard's ticket was the only one to "advo­cate improved gender relations efforts." Does Perri wish to insult every woman on this campus by demanding they decide their vote on the basis of the vague notion of "improving gender relations?" 
Maybe we should assess Perri's other insulting deductions as to why women voted for the Griffin/Nass ticket. He claims the women were afraid to "break away from the pack"· that he left mostly undefined. I will suppose that Perri's "pack" is the scheming conglomerate of women who vote on the basis of good looks, "trendy sweaters" and whether or not the candidates frequent Bridget's. OR maybe his "pack" consisted of the women "entrenched in a high school mentality" that vote on "sheer popularity." Surely, the women who voted for Griffin/Nass have trouble sleeping now that Perri has figured out their real motivation. Now they see their error in not supporting the ticket that had grand illusions of tearing Stepan Center down. 
Can Perri believe that Notre Dame women are so superficial, shallow and misguided that they need a self-righteous resident of Morrissey to be their voice for emancipation and feminism? Mr. Perri seems to thinks he has it all figured out -women should vote for women. By his own logic, Perri should have wholeheartedly supported Griffin and Nass since there was not just one, but TWO men he could have voted for. By voting for this ticket, perhaps Perri would have further empowered himself by voting for men solely because he is one. 
In his lengthy diatribe, Perri uses Gillard only as a token -not as a candidate with any issues or ideas, but as a figurehead for Notre Dame women to automatically sup­port because of shared gender. We all know who we voted for and why. In case you think I am trying to defend my own vote, I voted for Szabo/Gillard, but can assure you Mary's gender had nothing to do with it. If you believe that Szabo/Gillard had a better platform, then direct your misguided argu­ments at every student who voted for Griffin/Nass. Also Patrick, as it is painfully obvious you have personal. petty problems with Matt Griffin and Erek Nass, why don't you write them a nasty letter regarding their taste in clothing and the bar they prefer and save us all the time? 
THERESA HIGGINS 
Junior 
Lewis Hall 
Dear Editor: 
I am writing in response to Patrick Perri's letter (Feb. 21) regarding the recent election of Matt Griffin and Erek Nass. While I agree that the results of the male and female dorms were interesting, I do not agree that the women of Notre Dame can seri­ously be accused of being afraid to "live up to changing gender roles." 
I am not ashamed to admit that I am one of the many women who voted for Griffin and Nass. I felt, as I'm sure did many others, that either ticket would have done a fine job in office. I chose to vote for Griffin and Nass, however, because I felt their platform was more realistic and more attain­able. I strongly agree that we need more women in leadership positions, yet I am unwilling to sacrifice ideals and goals in the name of gender. 
Whether one is male of female is a biological fact. Determined at birth, it is no more open to change than one's height or eye color. In fact, one's biological sex reveals next to nothing about one's expe­rience, character, or leadership ability. Perri accused the Notre Dame women of voting for Griffin and Nass because "we needed some cute guys in office." Yet what difference is there between voting for looks and voting for a person because she possesses two x chromosomes? Both are extremely superficial and unin­formed decisions. 
Perri states that in voting for Griffin and Nass, the women of Notre Dame ignored "powerful feminist ideologies." Again, I dis­agree. An election is not an ideal situation. Instead, the voters must decide from a limited num­ber of imperfect choices. By elect­ing Griffin and Nass, the students were showing support for their platform, not denouncing the role of women in government. I pre­sume to speak for the women on campus when I say that we do not wish to see a woman elected to office just because she is a woman. The idea of a "token woman" is to me more demeaning than the elected, regardless of sex. While we hope for the day when this will be a woman, we acknowledge that we must make 
the best of what we have. 
Ultimately, the blame for an all male office cannot and does not reside with the voters. Instead of reprimanding the women of Notre Dame for supporting Griffin and Nass, it is necessary to examine the cultural attitudes that pro­duced and elected a male ticket. Why did so few women run for office at all? What are the under­lying attitudes that prevented or discouraged women from seeking the presidential office? These are the issues that need to be addressed. 
Perhaps once the female popula­tion is better represented in the various tickets, the University will see the election of a campaign, it is likely that males will continue to dominate Notre Dame's politi­cal arena. 
JESSICA FRIES Sophomore Pasquerilla West 

Remember the responsibilities of 'Irishness' 
As the most joyous, glorious, and sacred holiday that Hallmark ever knew approaches, I must take this opportunity to incite some Irish fervor. THE DAY draws closer; a day for the finest people on God's green ear.th to stand and be noticed (and if all goes well, perhaps fall down); a day for the Irish. 
With March 17 t-minus 19 days away (that's 27,360 minutes or 1,641,600 sec-
Thomas 
Coyne 

onds for those of you keeping track) it is time to get in the St. Pat's Day spirit, and I don't mean skip class and ruri over to that apartment complex with the great parking. I mean it's time to reflect on what St. Patrick's Day is and what exactly we are celebrating. 
As difficult as it is to admit, the drink­ing, singing, and dancing have absohite­ly nQthing to do with the patron saint of Ireland and what he accomplished in God's country. Whether or not he drove the snakes out of Ireland (a process that actually took 800 years) matters little ­what he did do was bring Catholicism to a pagan people. Through the network of monasteries he created, he provided space for erudition in an otherwise igno­rant age. He was the holiest of men, his devotion and sacrifice of mythical pro­portion. lie is a symbol of peace, of self­lessness, of piety -he has come to rep­resent that which is good about the land and the people he loved. 
It is a bit curious that on March 17 we will remember him by wearing Shamrocks and plastic green hats from Osco and slugging pints of Guinness or jars of Jameson. We say we are cele­brating the Irish, revelling in being Irish, engaging in Irish activities. How did the notion of what is Irish ever become so distorted? I find it ironic that few places on earth revel in Irish stereotypes more than the Irish-American bastion Notre Dame. We say we are Irish to the core, the home of the Fightin' Irish, yet on March 17 we will all prove that we have not one idea what Irishness is. 
Are we not in some way responsible as a school that waves the tri-color and pastes leprechauns and shamrocks across its campus to take an interest in the history, culture, and politics of Ireland? As ethnic groups express their rage and disgust for mascots and nick­names that pervert their culture's tradi­tions, we at Notre Dame are as account­able as anyone for such injustice. We rally behind a leprechaun caricature taken from racist British propaganda likening the h'ish to monkeys. We drink in the name of the Irish, we fight in the name of the Irish. We create, embrace, and perpetuate myths and stereotypes about Irishness, stereotypes that have in a sense become the Irish, stereotypes that are belittling and deny the tragedy and the glory of Irishness. 
Notre Dame has recently made an effort to remedy such ignorance through its Irish studies program. a program that will allow this "Irish University" to explore what being Irish really is. Yet as a student body largely composed of students with Irish blood, it is surprising with how little effort and how little interest we approach the study of a her­itage this University supposedly cele­brates. 
On March 17 we will sport our Irish sweatshirts and stumble through rowdy parties, green beer in hand, muttering in the most miserable brogues ever heard, but how many of us understand anything of substance regarding Ireland and its people? How many of us have taken an Irish Studies class? How many of us even know there is an Irish lan­guage, let alone that one can fulfill Notre Dame's language requirement in it? 
Names like Tone, Parnell, De Valera mean nothing to most of us, but to an Irishman they sound like Washington, Lincoln, Roosevelt. Initials like UVF, RUC, IRA, SDLP sound like new campus organizations to a Domer (perhaps the Ultra Vehement Feminist or the Students Drinking Like Professionals). yet to a student at Queen's University Belfast, they mean something very dif­ferent, something very dire. They are outfits at the center of one of the oldest conflicts in Western H.istory, a conflict that seems to be drawing closer to resolve, a conflict most of us know noth­ing about. 
You may wonder why you should even care. Ethnocentrism is as American as apple pie, and most of us are not con­cerned with such developments abroad, developments that will change the face of a country we don't pay attention to but love to invoke on March 17 and foot­ball Saturdays. Yet as Irish-Americans, as Christians, as human beings, we should be aware of Ireland's tragic yes­terday and be a vocal force in helping forge its tomorrow. 
Yet we are not interested. We forget. We forget that most of us are in fact American because our ancestors were starved out of their homeland in the 1840's while the English got fat. In the United States, we remember past atroci­ties and attempt to patch the scars they left behind, albeit slowly. The tragic history of African and Jewish Americans should never be forgotten. We regularly recall the terrible legacy of slavery in America and remember the horror of the holocaust -our capital's holocaust museum is one of the most outstanding monuments to the Jewish plight. 
Yet do we recall the thousands of Irish murdered, enslaved, and transplanted throughout history? Do we mourn the fact that millions of fellow Catholics lived under rigorous penal laws imposed by a British minority, all in the name of our faith? These are sources of Irish pride and Irish sorrow, yet they are wholly overlooked by those of us who claim to be Irish but whose only Irish hero is Arthur Guinness. 
It seems that what we understand 
about the Irish aside from the Blarney 
stone stereotypes are Hollywood and 
media representations of the Irish hooli­gans, the fighting Irish, the terrorists who kill indiscriminately. The reality of Irish history is that the worst acts of vio­lence ever committed on Irish soil were by the British against the Irish. 
But that is not what we hear about. We hear about how those murderous Irishman resumed bombing last year and destroyed any chance for peace when the real blame for the violence falls squarely on the politicking of an inept Major government. As abrasive as it may sound, one man's terrorist is another man's freedom fighter, but we, the Irish in America, fail to recognize that point of view. We balk at the notion of violence and say 'How could they?' Don't ask the IRA, ask John Major, Maggie Thatcher, and the countless British governments before them whose racist politics subjugated and exploited the Irish people. 
The loss of life resulting from Fenian violence cannot be justified by any means. Peace is the priority, and it is the hope of very Irishman. But as we stand on the brink of peace and applaud the changes leading to resolution in the North of Ireland, the ugly fact that no one seems willing to accept is that had there not been violence, there would never have been change. 
So as you celebrate St. Patrick's Day and revel in your Irishness, remember that what you are celebrating is much bigger than one day. Remember that the country you are celebrating is more than shamrocks and whiskey and tweed caps, but is a county with a chance to become one free, independent nation for the first time in centuries, a country ready to stop living beneath the shadows of hatred and violence. Our voices count in shaping Ireland's future -our objec­tion to injustice and occupation can help the Irish find that peaceful tomorrow; our ignorance and indifference will help them stay right where they are. 
R. Thomas Coyne is a senior Arts and Letters major. His column appears every other Wednesday. 
---~ ~----­
ACCE-NT
page 10 Wednesday, February 26, 1997 
• ACCENT ASKS 

If you could replace the president with a cartoon character, who would it be? 

By NATHANIEL MARX 
Accent Writer 


o one will dispute that the 
Golden Dome is the heart of 
he Notre Dame campus. Residents of Alumni Hall say they live at the center of the universe, while LaFortune Hall claims to be Notre Dame's living room. Where, then, does one look to find the soul of this campus? It must be a place steeped in history, yet in touch with the mod­ern world. It should represent Notre Dame's variety and live up to the character and ideals of the University. Most importantly, the soul of Notre Dame would be found in a place where life as 
We have a person on retreat nearly every weekend." Thummel tutors children at the Center for the Homeless, while another student assists at the retirement center. 
"Our days can be really, really full," Elliott remarks. In addition to their academic work, activities, and com­munity service, the men at Old College participate in frequent prayer as a community. Elliott explains, "Most of us roll out of bed at 7 in the morning to get up for 7:15 morning prayer­not to'Hllany of my friends [outside of Old College] are talking about doing that." Additionally, evening prayer or Mass is held at 5 p.m., and Mass or night prayer at 10 p.m. Special "com­munity nights" on Mondays and Thursdays include Mass as well as 


dinner prepared by two of the Old Collegians. The residents of Old College take their community prayer seriously. "We have a commitment to get up every day and to be here for every single one of these men here," Thummel says. 
The University itself has several commitments to the men at Old College. While the Old Collegians are asked to pay for room and board, the University grants them full tuition scholarships for as long as they remain in the program. "I don't think that there's ever a feeling that thr, University or Holy Cross wants their money out of us," Elliott says, but it is 
"Butthead because he is cool." 
Megan Walsh Freshman, Pasquerilla East 
"Optimus Prime because he can transform the country into a better place for all humankind." 
Brian Jankowitz .Sophomore, Morrissey 


"Papa Smurf because he was a wise and natural leader." 
Katie Fox Sophomore, Cavanaugh 

"Homer Simpson because he character­izes many Americans." 

Mark Higgins Freshman, Flanner 


"Yogi Bear because he has always been a figure of lead­ership and the American way." 
Christy Duval Sophomore, Pasquerilla East 

"Shaggy because he has really good pos­ture." 


Steve McMullen Junior, Keough 
The Observer/Rachael Sederberg 

a community is a happy reality and a serious responsibili­ty . 
One would do well 'to search for N o t r e Dame's soul among the 12 under­graduates and two priests who live at Old College. The students here are exploring a 
vocation as 

C a t h o l i c The men of Old College are composed of four juniors, seven p r i e s t s . sophomores and one freshman. 
Junior Kyle Elliott explains that the Old College program is "a trial run at living in a religious community." While it is often called the undergraduate semi­nary, Elliott thinks the term "House of Formation" better describes Old College. 
Formation happens in many ways at Old College. In preparation for possi­ble seminary studies, the Old Collegians are required to study a cer­tain amount of philosophy and theolo­gy. Still, as Notre Dame studepts, they may choose almost any major, and they study a variety of fields, including pre-medicine, government, economics and psychology. The resi­dents are 

a I s o involved in N o t r e Dame's many activ­ities. "We have two band mem­bers," says Elliott. "We have people in various clubs and activities, in retreat planning 


As im tual diret residents the vital 
formati experien communi they shou arate h athletic other g Elliott pointed underst religiou like Hoi 
commit­

In the hunt for Old College, simply look for its trademark sign. 
tees ... " 

Perhaps the most significant extracurricular activity for the Old Collegians is community ser­vice. Junior Ryan Thummel says, "There's two of us working at the Logan Center, a few in religious edu­cation, high school and elementary... 
clear that the students feel a particu­lar responsibility to complete academ­ic work and support each other to the best of their abilities. 
What brought these men to Old College, and why do they choose to need to gious co is our tr We're n 
field. You wouldn't be sense of community if out all over campus," E At the same time, 01 tainly not isolated fr campus life. In additi 
-~ -----------------~--------------­
ACCENT
Wednesday, February 26, 1997 page 11 
-
• ACCENT SPEAKS 
-

That Darn President 
us will not become priests." However, By DAN CICHALSKI Collegians can be found at dances and he adds that those who do not become 
Assistant Accent Editor
is the history parties, and have a large number of priests will almost certainly be "active 
lege itself. At friends who live in the dorms. lay members of their communities." st structure on While they do not hold any SYRs or Thummel remembers that "John e've already had one Calvin in the White House. And~Iessing to be formals, they do have a house party Conley said to me when I was coming currently, there's a cat as the First Pet. So why not elect)tt, "The build-each semester. The community make in, 'Thummel, this is not a priest­Calvin as President and let him bring along Hobbes as
W
it, but it's got its own rules about social life, includ­making program. We are making VP? Surely a tiger can do that job.
the most part, ing parietals that are an hour earlier good men."' Thummel feels that their 
Today's Photo Poll question sparks some interesting scenarios[
s own room, than in the residence halls. For the time at Old College should be "about that only a lazy Arts and Letters major such as myself would 'nger residents most part, the residents believe that finding God's will in your life today." 
spend any serious would-be productive time contemplating. 
lite guest bed­their social life is not very different Rather than dedicating themselves to What if Calvin grew up to be president of the United States? .
'ortable living from that of other students on cam­becoming priests, he believes that How about someone from the Peanuts gang? There are hun­that the Old pus. "the immediacy of our commitment is dreds of possible candidates out there in the Chicago Tribune'ste visitors. Old College is a relatively unique to the men in the house and to our Tempo section and on the Cartoon Network. Let's consider: • location near program in America. As such, it academics." 
• "Blondie." If Dagwood Bumstead were elected president,'s Lake is hard draws people from all over the coun­Thummel and Elliott readily admit Blondie would start to go by her maiden name and try to get apring and fall, try. Thummel hails from Wichita, that being at Old College involves a tO-billion page health care package passed. But, the more like­ack stoop and Kansas while Elliott comes all the way constant struggle to balance the many ly scenario here would be to elect Blondie. Dagwood would beSaint Mary's from Alaska. Other residents are parts of their daily lives. 
able to adequately perform vice-presidential duties while sleep­tiful," Elliott 
S t i I I , ing on the couch eight hours a day.
Elliott 

• "Dilbert." No question here: Dogbert for president! A:allege pray in thinks that Dogbert cabinet would consist of Catbert as chief of staff and a reconstruc­" when Rathert as postmaster general. Dilbert could be put in charge
one built by everything 
of spraying the rental shoes in the White House bowling alley. 
The chapel is is in its • "The Far Side." Gary Larson's hilarious cartoon had no 
ce of Father p r o p e r 
main characters so the likely candidate to emerge from the Farnit are many place, you Side Primaries would be a cow-any cow.
estments. Yet should feel • "Doonesbury." Zunker Harris. We need a president nameda! building is this kind of Zunker, that's all there is to it. With President Harris, there
I. One Old stretching 
would be no question as to whether or not he inhaled.
"tar, Thummel -this kind • "Peanuts." Charlie Brown can't manage a baseball team, so r, and others of pulling. 
it is unlikely that he could manage the country. Snoopy would altar servers. I think that perform well. given his vast knowledge of American history and e, Father Rob call that ability to sleep on the top of a dog house. 
ily about the brought us • "He-Man." This guy's got the p~r.fect campaign slogan:ess and com­here is "Master of the Universe." Not even FDR can compete with that. 
ife. now mak­· • The Warner Brothers Party. Yosemite Sam could be theof yet another ing us western frontier candidate. But Bugs Bunny would win outchoose to live g r o w over Sam. With President Bunny in the White House, though,and Thummel another America's carrot production would suffer tremendously. Don'the formation step to forget the Warner Brothers. The self-made cartoon, rising up
This staff c=--~~~~~~~~77~~~~--~~~~~~~77.~~ becoming 
from a childhood of poverty, living in a water tower on a studio
who we 

lot. There's nothing more American than that.
are." 

• "Calvin and Hobbes." The White House would become oneNotre Dame If the big Get Rid Of Slimy girlS (G.R.O.S.S.) clubhouse. Calvin would 
at Old College. residents 
be able to stay up as late as he wants and rent any movies he'dnt has a spiri­' from California, Arkansas, and of Old College do indeed represent the like. It'd be the idea of small government at its.smallest; theeets with for Washington. soul of Notre Dame, they do not people really would run everything.
three hours The Old Collegians would probably always feel understood by other stu­• The Transformer Party. Optimus Prime was a fine leader,Of his spiritu-agree with Elliott who says that his dents, and they invite people to learn keeping the Decepticons from taking over the Earth. He evenBob Epping, reasons for coming. to Old College fall more about their community. "I came back from the dead. Since Optimus had his own weaponsBob rocks." somewhere in between a "mystical would like Notre Dame to know more and was made of steel, the Secret Service could be cut and the"tual direction pulling" by God to consider a priestly about this place," Thummel says, ''I'm money used for the Presidential Car Wash. 
about some vocation and the encouragement of very proud of it." 
• "Scooby-Doo." Shaggy was a weenie, but if George Bushneed to talk Father John Conley, a Holy Cross In any case, the men at Old College can be president. . . . Scooby himself is a long shot because no .on so that you vocations director. "So many things are verv aware of the truth of college one would be able to understand his speeches. Not that that's aperiod of time seemed toreally add up when I start­life that is in the soul of every Notre bad thing....
been through ed really thinking about it, and I think Dame student. 
• The Disney Party. There are several possibilities within this that's true for most of the guys here... As Elliott says, "It's a winding road, party alone. With all of his powers, Aladdin might be too muchrt of my life, It really made sense to come to Old and you never know what's around of a dictator, so he'd be a bad choice. Goofy's got a chance­ees, "I would College." the next bend." The Old Collegians remember Gerry Ford. Everyone would love Mufasa as presi­
--....

·on to anyone Currently, there are four juniors, are fortunate to share their winding dent because of that voice. Scar could even get elected (Nixon an important seven sophomores, and one freshman road with each other and with God. 
was reelected). Donald Duck would not be a problem in thelir existence." living at 

Oval Office, even though he doesn't wear any pants. After all, rtant as spiri­0 I d JFK and Clinton couldn't keep theirs on.
tion is to the College. 
• The Superfriends. The Justice League of America is a cabi­fOld College, Despite net or Congress in waiting. Superman or Batman would be the
part of their t h e 
president, though the Wonder Twins would make a good co­
n is in their impor­
prez pair. Aquaman could be secretary of the navy. 
e of living as a tance of • ''The Smurfs." If Papa Smurf can keep all those little blue y. Asked why consider­men in line with one woman running around town, he can holdd receive sep­ing the down Congress. Gargamel seems like a dead ringer for speaker
using when priest­
of the House. 
teams and hood, 
• "The Simpsons." The next American royal family, ala the
oups do not, t h e i r 
Kennedys? Perhaps not, but Usa seems to have a good head on
d Thummel plans for 
her shoulders, especially for an eight-year-old. If Lisa were
out that to life after 
elected, we'd finally find out what state Springfield is in. Bartnd life in a grad ua­would be the equivalent of Roger Clinton -that annoying, piti­
community tion are 
ful brother she would really like to keep out of the public eye. 
· Cross, they not pre­
• "The Flintstones." Truly America's First Family. Fred's aive in a reli­deter­hard-working man who remains faithful to his wife, except for munity. "This mined. 
those testosterone-bonding sessions at the Waterbuffalo Lodge ining ground. Elliott or bowling alley. 
t out on the points 
Well, some of these might not be prudent suggestions. Whohie to get that out that cares? A lot of shady people can get elected in this country, bute were spread "if you we're just not lucky enough to have someone as colorful asiott says. want to A replication of the original log cabin built by Father Stephen Badin pro­Bugs Bunny residing at 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue. 
College is cer­run the vides a place to celebrate Mass. 
If we did live in such a wonderful world, I think Calvin would n the rest of statistics, get my vote. 
1 to attending most of 


Wednesday, February 26, 1997 The Observer· SPORTS page 12 
•NBA 

Washington defeats Indiana 
By DAVID GINSBURG Associared Press Wrirer 

LANDOVER, Md. 
Juwan Howard scored 20 of his 28 points in the first half as the Washington Bullets built a 21-point lead and cruised past the Indiana Pacers 108-87 Tuesday night, ending a three­game losing streak. 
Howard also had 11 rebounds and nine assists, barely missing the first triple-double of his NBA career. The third-year forward was coming off a miserable nine-point effort against Detroit, the first time in 36 games he failed to score in double figures. 
Tracy Murray scored 19 and Rod Strickland 17 for the Bullets, who shot 63 percent before halftime to go up 58-37. Washington led by as many as 29 points in the second half in registering its second-most lop­sided victory of the season. 
The Bullets, despite getting only nine points from leading scorer Chris Webber, won their third game in the last 12 and improved to 3-5 under new coach Bernie Bickerstaff. Washington had lost four straight to Indiana dating back to last season. 
The Pacers (25-29) and Bullets (25-30) are chasing Orlando (28­
25) for the eighth and final play­off spot in the Eastern Conference. 
Reggie Miller and Rik Smits had 14 points apiece for Indiana, but Miller was 1-for-7 in the first half and Smits was 4­for-9 with three turnovers as the Pacers put themselves in a deep hole by shooting just 39 percent. 
Washington led 29-23 early in the second quarter before Howard started a 9-0 run with a layup and ended it with a tip-in. The Bullets pulled away late in the period when Howard scored six straight points in a 14-2 surge that made it 58-35. 
Webber opened the second half with a free throw and a dunk, and two foul shots by Strickland upped the margin to 26 points. It was 76-54 before Murray scored five points in a 7­0 spree that put the Bullets up by 29. 
Notes: Miller went 4-for-12 and is 37 -for-111 from the field (33 percent) in his last seven games.... Newcomer Mark Jackson scored eight for Indiana.... Webber grabbed all 10 of his rebounds in the first 
half.  
Seattle Cleveland  72 66  
CLEVELAND  

Seattle outscored Cleveland by 14 points at the foul line to beat the Cavaliers 72-66 Tuesday night in one of the lowest-scor­ing games in NBA history. 
The 13 8 combined points were the seventh fewest since the shot clock was introduced in the 1954-55 season. No. 6 on the list is Miami's 71-66 victory over Cleveland on Feb. 1. 
The Sonics made 24 of 29 free throws, including 10 of 10 by Hersey Hawkins, to win their seventh straight despite a sea­son-low point total by Seattle. Cleveland was 10 of 18 from the line. 
Seattle stars Gary Payton and Shawn Kemp had off nights. Payton was held to eight points on 2-of-12 shooting with only one assist, while Kemp shot 2­for-7 from the field for nine points. 
Cleveland, the league's top­rated defensive team, trailed 60­52 early in the fourth but went on a 12-2 run to regain the lead. Terrell Brandon's 3-pointer with two minutes left made it 64-62 and caused by far the ioudest applause of the season from 18,725 at Gund Arena. 
But Payton, Brandon's good friend from their college days in Oregon, followed a 3-pointer by Sam Perkins with a nifty drive to give the So nics a 67-64 lead with 92 seconds to play. 
Hawkins and Detlef Schrempf then combined to hit five of six foul shots down the stretch. Hawkins finished with 16 points, and Perkins had 14. 
Seattle shot 35 percent from the field and fell far short of their previous scoring low this season, 84 points against the Chicago Bulls. The Sonics' fran­chise low is 65, set in 1990. 
Seattle, second in the league in scoring with 101 points per game, took only 11 shots in the first quarter and made on-ly three while falling behind 18-15. 
The Sonics led 37-35 at half­time despite shooting 30 per­cent. They scored more points 
(38) in the third quarter against the Clippers earlier this season, and nearly twice as many (70) in the first half against Golden State. 
The point guard matchup be­tween Brandon and Payton never materialized. They didn't guard each other for most of the game. 
Brandon, who is in a shooting slump, had only one field goal in the first half and finished with 11 points on 4-of-15 shooting. 

Courtesy of the Indiana Pacers Despite Reggie Miller's 14 points, Indiana couldn't overcome the offensive barrage led by Washington's Juwan Howard. 
The Observer acceprs classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. ro 3 p.m. at the Norre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. ro 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Cemer. 
Classifieds Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds musr be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
SUMMER JOBS ALL LAND/WATER SPORTS 
NOTICES 

PRESTIGE CHIDREN'S CAMPS 
ADIRONDACK MOUNTAINS SPRING BREAK NEAR LAKE PLACID PANAMA CITY BEACH FLORIDA 1·800·786·8373 SANDPIPER-BEACON BEACH RESORT 3 POOLS, 1 INDOOR POOL, HUGE BEACHSIDE HOT Wanted: CRUISE & LAND-TOUR EMPLY· MENT-Industry offers Travel (Hawaii, Mexico, Caribbean), imcomparable benefits, & good pay. Find out how to start the application process now! Cruise Employment Services provides the answers. Call 800·276·4948 Ext. C55846 (We are a research & publishing company) 1990 HONDA Civic DX HB. New tires, new exhaust, new timing belt, great mileage, CD player. $3900/best. 233·6124 
Bianchi mtn bike for sale. Never rid· den. Last year's model. Paid $550. Sacrifice $450 obo. Call 243·1308 ask for John 
Adoption: A very loving, financially Betsy, Julie, & Joann: secure, well educated young cou-The Mickey's Crew misses you. pie, long to adopt your newborn. Love, KDOG Close and caring extended family. We offer a special life for your child. Some of us will marry hockey play· Expenses paid. Please call Sherri & ers while others of us will marry hall Joe 1·800·378·6680. presidents. 
GEORGE AND THE FREEKS Cheat once, you are gone!! No 
TUB, SUITES UP TO 10 PEOPLE TIKI BEACH BAR, HOME OF THE "Kegerator'' for use beginning June BIGGEST PARTY. 1. Willing to pay big bucks. FREE INFO 1-800·488·8828 WWW.SANDPIPERBEACON.COM Call 634·1305 
Ask for John, Andy, or Dan. 
THE COPY SHOP  
LaFortune Student Center  ALASKA EMPLOYMENT • Earn up  
Phone 631-COPY  to $3,000·$6,000+/mo. in fisheries,  
Mon.: 7:30a.m.· Midnight  parks, resorts. Airfare!  
Tues.: 7:30a.m. ·Midnight  Food/Lodging! Get all the options.  
Wed.: 7:30 a.m. • Midnight  Call  

Going to or through southern Illinois for spring break? I need a ride and will help pay for gas and tolls. Liz • 273·3943 
Wanted: DRIVER to take student from Clay H.S. to SMC. M, Tu, Th, 2:45pm. $18/wk 233·4581 or 631·7531 
NEED RIDE to Kansas City -Spring Break· call Jen X1485 IBM Thinkpad w/ Canon Printer $600 or best offer call Jen 284·4407 

PERSONAL 
JAZZERCISE Very close to campus 277·0111 
second chances. Come see DOUG MCKENNA of Puritanical I tell you. GEORGE AND THE FREEKS every Wednesday night Dance Puppet Boy , Dance!! at C. J.'s PUB ... 
No one is safe!! The Shocker Grand Opening: strikes again. There is no telling what poor unsuspecting thing will CAFE' POCHE' be his next victim. 
Located in the Architecture School Where are you #1. Feb.26, 1997 
Thur.: 7:30 a.m. • Midnight (919)918·7767, ext.A154. Fri.: 7:30a.m.· 7:00p.m. Sat.: Noon· 6:00p.m. FEMALE AND MALE CAMP Sun.: Noon· Midnight COUNSELORS needed for out· Open Early, Late, & Weekends standing Maine camps! CAMP 
VEGA for girls and CAMP CEDAR 
for boys. Each located on magnifi· MICHIANA PAINTBALL IS NOW cent lakefront setting with excep· OPEN FOR INDOOR PAINTBALL tional facilities. Over 100 positions GAMES AT SCOTTSDALE MALL at each camp for heads and assis· CALL 291·2540 FOR INFO. !ants in tennis, basketball, baseball, 
volleyball, soccer, lacrosse, golf, 
field hockey, roller hockey, swim· Longing white beaches, crystal blue ming, sailing, canoeing, scuba, 
ALASKA SUMMER EMPLOYMENT 
• Fishing Industry. Details on how to find a high-paying job with excellent benefits (transportation + room & board). For information: 800·276· 0654 ExtA55841 (We are a research & publishing company.) 
FOR RENT 
Homes for Rent for 97·98 ADT Security 232·2595 Electrolysis by Rebecca Blend Method 674·6933 

FAX IT FAST!!! 
Sending & Receiving 
at 
THE COPY SHOP LaFortune Student Center Our Fax# (219) 631·FAX1 
FAX IT FAST!!! 
Hello boys 
Free Coffee Mugs. Register to win Oh, there you are LVB!! Electronic Basketball game. 
I want gear. Class of 1998 presents ... Possibly the fight of the year. Blackhawks vs Chris "Little Mac" Owens Red Wings VS. 
Brian "Look at me I'm skinny • Sunday, March 23rd never stopped me from getting Limited numbers of busy" Dillon tickets are still available at the Lafortune info. Tonight 7:30 desk. 
water, a suntan and great parties? water-skiing, archery, weight train· Sign up now for College Tours ing, athletic trainer, journalism, pho· Spring Break Cancun '97. Call 1· tography, ceramics, crafts, drama, 800·244·4463. dance 
Uazz, tap, ballet), nature study, 
backpacking, horseback riding, 
ILOST & FOUND I 

ropes course, trip leaders, mountain 
biking, riflery, general (w/youngest Lost: Navy blue backpack in SDH at campers). Also looking for secre· dinner on Wed. Important CPA taries, maintenance, kitchen. Camp books are inside! Please return if dates approx. June 21-ft.ug 21. Top picked up by mistake. No questions salary, room, board, laundry, cloth· asked. ing, and travel allowance. MEN· Call4·3397. CAMP CEDAR for boys, 1758 
Beacon Street, Brookling, MA LOST. One black leather 02146, ccedarme@aol.com, 1·888· ladies glove with white fur lining. 844·8080. WOMEN-CAMP VEGA, AFFORDABLE 1 ,2, & 3 BDRM ..Fat Rader and the Bad Guys•• HOMES. AVAIL NOW. NEAR wl Cod in Salsa CAMPUS. GILLIS PROPERTIES Wed. Night-Bridget's 272·6551 
NICE FURNISHED HOMES FOR NEXT SCHOOL YEAR NORTH OF ND 2773097 
FOR SALE 
Bed -Oueensize orthopedic preml­urn mattress set. Never used still in package · cost 550 sacrifice 175. (219) 674·2352 FIESTANG FILIPINO Ill 

Sat. March 1 @7:00 Lafortune Ballroom dinner, show, party, & more 
Sun. March 2 @2:00 Washington Hall cultural play by PINTIG 
HURRY! TIX @ INFO DESK 
Congrats my paesan. NEED RIDE to Kansas City I love you. ·L ·Spring Break· call Jen X1485 
Animal let down all of 5a by losing ATTN: SRS./FB FANS to the Diesel in the finals. B'NBREGISTRY·FINE HOMES· GRAD/FR OR/FB wknds. 291·7153 Wanted: 
••••••••Hey JUNIORs••••••••• "Kegerator" for use beginning June Send letters to your friends abroad. 1. Willing to pay big bucks. Drop letters off at 213 La Fun by Friday 2/28. Call 634·1305 
Ask for John, Andy, or Dan. Way too much intoxication going around this weekend. What is? 
Oh, how I miss it! Beth x4951 PO Box 1771, Duxbury, MA 02332, Ceasar cut on an odd-shaped head. Good Luck BD & Frogger!! 
jobs@campvega.com, http://cam· ND GRAD WANTS TO PASS ON ADOPTION: Need I say more?! Found • Blue paperback Bible on pvega.com, 1·800·838-VEGA. WE HIS LEGACY: Corporate Executive & homemaker Hey Trick. take a look at the menu. 2/20 on sidewalk near Galvin Life WILL BE ON THE NOTRE DAME '85 Buick Skyhawk can offer newborn a wonderful life John· Science. Call Julie@ 1·6085. CAMPUS, Monday, March 3 in the GREAT Student Car! filled with warmth, security, endless It is nice to have you back! Chicken & Dumplings, baby!! 
Lafortune Student Center, Dooley $500 obo love, education & a bright future. ·Kathleen Room from 10AM to 4PM. NO 289·4384 Mel Confidential. Mark Are you going to stay away from the 
WANTED 

APPOINTMENT NECESSARY. & Candace 1-888·811·1141 Pat Fear Rocks my world. D·hall forever? 
page 13 

Teammate Admore White White said. "I had been strug­Fraser who only managed six had no problem with the crystal gling for the last two games, points.
8-ball 
ball on a sign, however. and I felt the least I could do "This was a hard-fought, low­
-

continued from page 20 
the Irish with 27 points, 18 in the second half. The 69-60 vic­tory assured Notre Dame of their first winning season in two years. 
Always modest. Garrity admitted that the propaganda distributed to ticket holders made him a little uneasy. 
"Before the game I thought I was going to have a terrible game when they start putting stuff like that out," he added. 
"He's definitely got my vote," White said. 
White might make multiple trips to the polls after Garrity, along with reserve Antoni Wyche, compensated for his 2­11 night from the field. Wyche tallied a career-high 17 points, including a crucial trey that gave Notre Dame (14-11, 8-9) a 54-49 lead with 5:37 left. 
"He (Antoni) came up big," Garrity said. "That's what we need. We need guys coming off the bench, scoring points, being was make a layup and my free throws." 

The game was ugly for the most part as both teams shot under 42 percent from the field and under 20 percent from beyond the arc. As in their last outing, the Irish struggled from the outset, reaching the ten point plateau midway through the first half. 
The Irish opened the game connecting on only two of their first thirteen shots. 
Despite that, the Irish trailed by one point at halftime. The Hurricanes (15-10, 9-8) shot an equally pathetic 39 percent, while committing eight turnovers and putting the Irish in the bonus with 11:40 to go in the first half. 
Ugly facts that made for a typical Big East contest. 
"It was a tough game because they just kept coming," said Garrity who displayed combat injuries with cuts both under his eye and on his neck. 
"This game didn't have the flow to it that some of the other games have," Irish head coach John MacLeod said. "It was not a particularly high-powered offensive game." 
More defensive flair was demonstrated as Notre Dame held Miami leading scorer Tim James to just nine points. Garrity also manhandled Alex scoring, intensely played game," MacLeod surmised. "Every game has a character­istic attached to it. This game was fought down in the trench­es. This team does that a lot, and I really like that." 
Miami had no player to take over at game's end, so the Irish defense did instead. In the last two minutes, the Hurricanes turned it over twice, while also offering up a brick and an air ball. 
"They're a hungry team that knows how to win," Miami head coach Leonard Hamilton said of the Irish. 
As for Garrity, Hamilton admitted that he posed one of the biggest problems Miami has encountered the entire season. Hamilton was pleased his team limited Garrity's touches inside, but was baffled at the way in which Garrity can pop off a screen and knock down a 15­footer with a hand in his face. 
"He's a tremendous basket­ball player," Hamilton added. "He has the confidence to hit the clutch shots down the stretch. He moves so well with­out the basketball. He just caught it and shot it as we were right there to contest." 
Sounds like Hamilton will be lining up behind White at the Big East MVP polling center. 
is accepting applications for 
pRODUCTION ASSISTANTS 
in the following departments: NEWS 
SPORTS 
AccENT 
Applicants must have experience using Macintosh computers; previous experience with Quark Xpress
• 

is helpful, but not required. 
Submit a briefresume to 314 LaFortune by 5 p.m. on March 5. Questions? Contact Mark DeBoy, Production Manager, at 1-5303. 
;o~.-.-·--.-·-----~ ~-~~~-~~ 
; . . ·.····..•. .. . 
·· ··,·Notre Dat11111 CDiriiTiunlf::i: i.'liJd Theatre 
~t!!i ~• .... .·· . 

~---·-----.....-----------­page 14 The Observer • SPORTS Wednesday, February 26, 1997 
was a case in point. Midway through the season, to focus more on playing Early in the current six-game Admore White, who was just when the Irish hit a four-game together." home winning streak, that role
Steps 

2-10 from the floor, called out a losing streak in January to drop That focus was most apparent fell on guys like Pete Miller and play designed for either himself their league mark to just 1-5, in the early days of February, Derek Manner. Saturday, itcontinued from page 20 or Garrity. Seeing a crack in the team was at rock bottom. when the Irish put together was Matt Gotsch and David 
"We're a lot more mature the Hurrican defense, White In addition, the calls for Notre three conference wins in a Lalazarian. Last night, Antoni now," said Pat Garrity. "We're exploded to the goal and kissed Dame to find a replacement for week. Wyche did the honors. not making a lot of the stupid in left-handed lay-up over the MacLeod became louder. "That stretch was really cru­And no one can forget the mistakes like we did last year." defense to put the Irish ahead "We just had to lay it out cial for us," admitted Garrity. constant, Garrity. 
Last year, and even through by three. there on the floor for Coach," "We proved we could play." "This is the time to be cook­the first half of the this year, But he wasn't done. He then said White. "He's done every­MacLeod always thought so. · ing, to be on a tear going into the Irish probably would have stepped to the free throw line thing he can for us." "We felt like this group's the Big East Tournament," said found ways to dribble away the and sunk four straight free White and his team re­makeup was good," he said. MacLeod. type of close game they have throws to ice the games. sponded, traveling to the in­"We thought this team would "Now, we're really focused on often found themselves. It was simply execution of the hospitable Carrier Dome and really battle and they have. the Big East Tournament," said 
Not anymore. little things, aided by a sense of returning home with a 73-58 The chemistry is there. We Garrity. "Let's run the table 
Now, Notre Dame knows how confidence. win over Syracuse. The victory have people deferring to the out there." to do the little things it takes to "It was just a matter of win­stabilized the team, and the guys that is hot, and we have That would be quite a baby win. Importantly, they also ning some games to get that maturing process began. had different people step up." step. have the necessary confidence. confidence back," said Garrity. "Every team, at one point, 
Last night's final two minutes It hasn't always been so sim-goes through a slump," ob­served White. "We started 
jsign-upsj 
WED., Feb.26, THURS., Feb.27, 11 AM to 2 PM, 4 PM to 8 PM -AT LIBRARY CONCOURSE Limited Spots Available 
The Observer/Rob Finch 
Questions? Call Mike Dunn 634~3917
The Irish managed to find ways around the intense Hurricane defense in last night's contest. 

-
Leave the driving to us. 
Thanks to the nearly 300 riders this past weekend for making us a success! Driver training this Wednesday 

7-9:30 p.m. in Security Building 
• 
UN•vtunr n• NnTu Duu '""""'r.nwoo.,,.,.,, 

Wednesday, February 26, 1997 The Observer • SPORTS page 15 
• BENGAL BOUTS 
Intensity level increases for tonight's semifinals 
Champions look to defend their titles 
By BETSY BAKER 
Assistant Spor\,' Editor 
It's time for the boys to prove themselves as men. as the com­petition heightens for tonight's Bengal Bouts semifinals. As the number of matches are cut in half. the intensity doubles because this year's pugilists aim to get one step closer to the ultimate goal, a Bengal Bouts championship. 
While some of the boxers would be complacent making it to the final round, earning them the coveted Bengal Bouts jack­et, others have a little more to prove. 
"Some guys are out here for the jacket, but I already have that," said senior John Kmetz, two-time finalist, who will box fellow senior Tim Irwin in one of tonight's 157-pound semi­finals. 'Tm going for the title." 
Chip Farrell, a two-time fi­nalist in tlw 160-pound weight class, concurs. 
"The fact that I've made it to the final round the last two years without winning just makes me hungrier," Farrell commented. 
Still others are faced with defending their titles. Senior Chris Sikora, the top seed in the 15 7 -pound class, will take on Brendan McGuire in tonight's second semi-final in that class. Sikora, who had a bit of a size advantage in Sunday's quarter­final, will find himself more evenly-matched against McGuire. Sikora will also have to fend off the pressure that goes along with being the favorite and maintain the good, clean style of fighting that has found him success in the past. 
"A lot of people have come to me and asked me whether I think I'II repeat this year, so that's kind of forced me to look at the big picture," Sikorasaid. "But I'm just trying to stay focused." 
Such is the same for Doug Pollina of the 150-pound class. Pollina will face Steve Allen tonight in hopes of the opportu­nity to return to the finals to defend his title. After one of 

Showcase your talent and win a prize!!! Come to the ... 
4th Annual 

Troop N D 
,,,,., -~·· 
,,,•••• 
When: March 3 Where: Washington Hall Call x0939 for sign ups 
the more impressive showings on Sunday with a TKO of Andrew McElhinney in the first round, Pollina is forced at sharpening his skills and preparing himself for more of a battle against Allen. 
''I'm just going to have to con­tinue to train hard," Pollina said of his next step after Sunday's match. "I'll run and continue to train myself." 
On the other side of the 150 semis are graduate student Stefan Schroffner, who defeated Stephan Locher on Sunday with a split decision, and up-and­coming freshman J. R. Mellin who has already impressed people in his first year. Mellin used a lethal jab to take down senior Mike Eberly in the sec­ond round of Sunday's quarter­final match. 
When asked if he was worried about his semi-final match against Schroffner, Mellin answered, "He throws a real powerful punch, which is a little 


out of control, but if he lands it can do some real damage." "He throws a lot of hooks so I guess I'll just jab and move." 
In 155-pound action, top-seed Damon Affinito will take on sophomore John DeSplinter, who pulled off an impressive unanimous decision over Joshua Kirzedeer on Sunday. Affinito is one of the quicker fighters of the Bouts which will give him an advantage going into tonight's semi-finals. On the other side of the bracket, it will be a battle of the seniors as Pete Titteron will take on Matt Berilla. Titterton's very aggres­sive style against Berilla's abili­ty to land nearly every one of jab's on his opponent's face should make for one of the bet­ter bouts ~ the middle weight classes. 
Finally, to what Bengal Bouts president, John Christoforetti, touted as the toughest ...yeight class of the bouts, the 160­pound looks to live up to that billing as it places Chip Farrell against a feisty Tom Roderick, whose ability to catch his oppo­nent on the way helped him find the way to the semifinals. 
"Chip's a good fighter," Roderick said of tonight's op­ponent. "He's got a different style than my last opponent. He's more of an in-and-out fighter, but I'm looking forward to fighting him." 
Richard Molloy will also have a chance to live up to the top­seed he earned in his first year of the Bengal Bouts when he goes up against Tom Biolchini. 
-

Biolchini will have a bit of an advantage, having come off an impressive quarterfinal victory over Alex Kerrigan, but the first-year Molloy is receiving a lot of hype from his teammates. 
Still, all the hype in the world will only get you as far as the ropes, and from there on out, it is a test of manhood. 
Have something to
• 

The William and Katherine Devers Program in Dante Studies 
say? Use Observer 
in conjunction with the Medieval Institute 
classifieds. 
-
presents: 
......· 
.;:::~:: := =;:;::::~:~:;:;:;::::~;::?~~\:::. 
·:::··::=:=:i?~~~::::i)f 
~~~: .·· :(::f:::=::::::::::::::::::: 
·::;:·· :­


·.:· ..·.;::. :;:-­-: ,•'::=\:}:' 
.·:.·-·.:·,.;:;:::::::;:·· 

fHrpages of the.Pri~fed Book and . IIJlages of~!!~;::~.t~:~fViemory" 
B RUN 0 'S 
Lina B~I,~,o~ijl~ni~~rsity of Pisa 
·: .. ··.·.·.·. .. ·.· .·· ·..· .. 
Delivery_~ Special 
Thursday, F;B;Qgrjz;::t.7, 1997 ~4:30pm 
·.:-. ·.·.:::{:::·:;:::··:········· 
One large One medium one topp_ing one topping
·::,:; t~E ZCi :;:;ii;"P 
for $7.95 for $6.95 
Department of Special Collections, 102 Hesburgh Library 

A reception will follow the lecture; all are welcome. 
273-3890
For further information contact the Devers Program in Dante Studies at 631-5610. 

page 16 The Observer • SPORTS Wednesday, February 26, 1997 
• BENGAL BOUTS 

Semifinals -will separate pretenders from contenders 
Wednesday's fights sure to· entertain 
By MIKE DAY Assistant Sports Editor 
The smiles are gone, and the party has come to an end. Things are starting to get seri­ous at the 67th annual Bengal Bouts. 
And as the fighters prepare for the semifinals tonight at the Joyce Center, the time has come to separate the contenders from the pretenders. 
In the 145-pound division, top seeds and co-favorites Fred Kelly and Ted Pagano seem des­tined to meet in Saturday's finals, but they will first have to take care of business if that matchup is to take place. 
Kelly, who defeated Brendan Walsh with a second round TKO last Sunday, will face No. 5 seed Matt Ramarge this evening. Ramarge has been one of the true surprises in this year's bouts, knocking off Brian Daigle in the quarterfinals. 


~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
has been there to give me ad­
vice when I've needed it," said 
Maguire. "He is a great lighter,
Benga,l B,outs 
and I know it will be a tough fight. I look forward to the chat­lenge." 
After coasting through the
'Semifi••na•ls 
Matt Peacock 

-
Tom "Go Ahead and Sign Your" 
Will 


--· 

Steve "The Wreckin 

J 
_s_re_ff_a_n--'"""'T""h..,.e""H-""a'-"tc""h-e_t_M_a_n_",l -
Schroffner .
-

Jeffrey "MaddoCJ" Mellin I 

Matt "Mojo" Berilla Chris "The Polish Prince" 


Rich "Rachels Dad" Mallo Thomas "T~~~~~~ia Tornado' J Tom "Go To Your Happy Place" ­
Roderick Chip "Off The Ola Block" Farrel 
"It is certainly a challenge to compete having not fought in it before," said Ramarge. "But I believe my conditioning and endurance will help make up for my lack of experience." 
After fighting for his life last Sunday against newcomer Kevin Buccellato, Pagano will need a stronger effort against the expe­rienced No. 3 seed Tom Cronley. Pagano struggled against Buccellato, ·narrowly escaping with a split decision in one of the day's most exciting matches. 
"He (Pagano) has a lot of ex­perience and is one of the top fighters competing," said Cronley. "It will be a tough fight, and I know that I'll have to come ready, both physically and mentally." 
Fans should definitely show up early to witness the highly competitive 135-pound class. Top seed Tommy Will is set to battle No. 4 seed Sean Sharpe, while newcomer Mike Maguirewill try his luck against the 
heavy favorite, Lucas Molina. 
Molina, who looked impres­sive in Sunday's second round TKO of Dominic Fahey, is not looking past Maguire to a po­tential finals matchup against Will.. 
first round, Will faces a big test in 1996 semifinalist Sharpe. Overcoming a slow start, Sharpe displayed his mettle in a tough 

-.'----'-R.:...z.::.a:::n'--"--'-T-'-'h.::.e...:S:.::c:::a"-r"-'R-"a:::::n.::s::___J 
Patrick "Take Two Of These" Maciariello 
Ted "The Bear" Lefere 
Chris "Doom• Dobranski 

J 
Matt "Was There Ever Any" ­
Andrew "The Brazilian Bruiser" Hebert 
Brian "The Nutty Irishman" Gaffne 
Mike "Guns Don't Kill 
People, J
__!S!ll Pea le'' Aomanchek 
Aaron ''MayT~e Force Be With ­
The Obse!Ver/Brandan Candura 

Senior Mike DeBiasi hopes to improve on last year's runner-up finish. 

Bouts 
continued from page 20 
freshman, my experience would be a big factor, but it's not against Aaron," said DeBiasi. "He really fought a great light. He really has good technique." 
De Biasi, a finalist last year,
Tro "C-Bass" Philli s is also an above-average tech­
nical boxer who will use the 
jab extensively. 

"This really should be a great boxing match," said DeBiasi, with an emphasis on the "boxing." 
Don't expect that to be the case in the second semifinal in the 200-pound class, where first-year Bouter Chris Conoscenti will take on Dave Butz. 

Butz has been one of the big­ger surprises of the Bouts and has already learned a valuable 

The ObseNer/Mike Ruma 

"Ragin Roman" Ted Pagano looks to rebound from a tough first fight tonight in the semifinals. 
"lie (Maguire) has fought well aggressive opponent." and will definitely be tough to Over the last six weeks, the beat on Wednesday," said . veteran Molina has worked Molina. "He's really aggressive extensively with Maguire, teach-and that style always is a chal-ing the newcomer some of the lenge to fight against. It is a lit-secrets of the trade. tle tougher to fight agafnst an "He has taught me a lot and win over senior Pete Meyer on Sunday. 
"I think my experience and endurance really helped me out in the final two rounds," said Sharpe. "I know that I will have to be at my best on Wednesday
tobeataguylikehim(Wi!O." After receiving a bye through the quarterfinals, the well rest­ed quartet in the 125-pound class is eager to step into the ring tonight. Junior Matt Peacock will face sophomore David Seerveld, while sopho­more Chris Owens prepares to take on fellow sophomore Brian Dillon. 
lesson. 
"I threw 61 punches in the first round of my first fight, and I was exhausted at the end," Butz said. "I know I can't do that. I just need more control." 
Should he advance, his oppo­nent likely will be Phillips. 
The senior is a sound boxer who packs a heavy punch. He will see his first action against Chris Craytor. 
The heavyweight division is pretty much wide open. 
Top-seeded Dave Monahan is the only returning lighter from last year. 
"Monahan may have an edge just on technique because of his experience," said Mantey. 
He will be stepping into the ring to face newcomer Justyn Harkin. 
In the other contest, left­handed Mike Romero will be looking to get past Steven Smyth. 



Wednesday, February 26, 1997 The ObseFver • SPORTS page 17 
• BENGAL BOUTS 
-

Top ranked boxers begin quest for titles tonight 


Campus View Apart~rrents  
We are now taking applications for NEXT YEAR!!  -furnished apartments -shuttle bus -central air -24 hour laundry  
•Swimming pool/SPA •Tennis, volleyball, & basketball courts •FLEXIBLE LEASE PLANS  
Apartments Available for your selection For more information, call272-1441 Summer leases Available  

By KATHLEEN LOPEZ 
Sports Writer 
Some consider having a bye in a round a blessing in disguise. Others see it as a major disad­vantage. The argument will be decided by tonight's fights, when the middle weight classes will sec· action from some of the top seeds for the first time. 
While some of the boxers have settled their first night jitters, others will be facing their nerves for the first time. Favored in the 165 pound weight class, senior captain John Christoforetti will take on freshman David Remick. Christoforetti advanced into the semis with a forfeit win over sophomore Peter Kelly. Remick has seen some action in the ring as he defeated freshman Scott Potter by a unanimous decision. 
Christoforetti finds himself at a disadvantage to Remick because he has not yet stepped in the ring. "I find it to be a dis­advantage. Each fight in the ring is valuable. Actual fighting is different than sparring. Just to get your legs, and get under the lights is a tremendous advantage. My sophomore year I had a bye all the way into the finals. and it just took a while to get use to it all. I am just glad that I have befor·e the finals this year." 
"He is the guy I look up to," said Remick about Christoforetti. "I have sparred against him before. I know a lit­tle about what to expect. I am definitely the underdog. Basically, I am going to go out there and do my best and' see what happens." 
"I am expecting Dave to be 
unday, March 2 • 2:00 PM Joyce Center at Notre Dame 
Reserved Seating $16. $13, $9 Magic Circle (Courtside seating with commemorative Harlem Globetrotters jersey) and VIP seating also available. For group discounts call (219) 631-7356 
\ 

'ON SALE NOW 
Visit us . the Worldwide Web at http://harlemglobetrotters.com 
very aggressive," said Christoforetti about his oppo­nent. 
If Christoforetti advances, he might have to face one of his fel­low captains in the finals of the 165 class. Junior captain Ryan Rans is the No. 2 seed in this bracket and has to face senior first year boxer Ben Rost. 
"I know who he is and that he is in ROTC, but that is it," said Rans about his opponent. "I am going to have to learn fast as I can in the ring. Whoever can adapt the fastest will have the biggest advantage." 
Rans has been trying to fine tune some of the things that did not run smoothly for him on Sunday. "I have been working on ring management and how to use the ring to my advantage," he said. 
When asked about possibly having to face Christoforetti in the finals, he responded, "The hardest thing to do is take it one bout at a time, especially when John is at the other end of the bracket." 
Christoforetti also senses that there is a possibility of meeting Rans in the finals, "Ordinarily, I prefer to take it one step at a time. Ryan and I have tough matches. Hopefully the best man will win, and we will see who ends up in the finals." 
Junior Sean Mahoney has emerged as a surprise in the 170 pound bracket. But after tonight, he might be the one ending up be surprised as he will face top-seeded senior Pat Maciariello. 
"I think I am at an advantage because I did it last year," said Maciariello. "I have seen every-
Tickets available at Joyce Center Box Office {Cash only on Jan 30) All Ticketmaster locations, 
or charge by 
at (219) 272-7979 
$3.00 discount for students and faculty with valid ND ID at Joyce Center Box Office only. 
~'""" ~ 
one that I might have to fight, and so that gives me an advan­tage." 
"His height is going to be an advantage that I am going to have to watch out for," said Maciariello about Mahoney. "My experience is going to be an advantage over him so it will be interesting." 
And in the other semi-finals of the 170 weight class will be Seth "Take Your Last Breath" Roy against Norm "The Barber" Beznoska. Both Roy and Beznoska are experienced, so this matchup might prove very interesting. Also both are in ROTC, so it should be a physical fight as well. 
"I am not going to change any­thing about the way I fought," said Roy about his preparations for tonight's fight. "Sunday's fight was a technically sound fight for me, I felt really good 

Now anyone can learn about what's new in medicine andfind out what medical school is like in these seven free sessions, o n to the neral ublic. 

Place: 102 DeBartolo Hall (west of stadium) University of Notre Dame Join us for 6 evenings of enlightenment as leading doctors and medical school professors discuss the hottest in medicine today. en to the c. 
Session 1: Too Tall -Too Small: 
Growth Disorders Ora Pescovitz, M.D. (named among the "Best Doctors in America") 
Tuesday, March 4, 1997 
Session 2: Forensic Medicine-"Dead Men Do Tell Tales" Rick Hoover, M.D. Tuesday, March 11, 1997 
Session 3: Eating Disorders Gerald Myers, M.D. Sleep Disorders Michael Englert, M.D. Tuesday, March 18, 1997 
For more· 

about it. Norm (Beznoska) is a technical fighter, and so I am not going to change anything about the way I have been thinking or training. Basically, I think that it should be a good fight." 
"You always increase with pressure as the tournament goes on," said Beznoska about 
· whether or not nerves increase in the semi-finals. "I do feel the pressure, and I am, a little bit use to it." The top seed did not get a bye in the 175 weight class. Senior Ted Lefere is the top-ranked boxer, and he will face junior Chris Dobranski. Lefere might dominate this one, but Dobranski has determination; Dobranski won by split decision in the first round. The second half of the bracket could be one of the day's better fights, with senior Matt Dowd 
Session 4: Epilepsy -Recent Advances and Treatments 
Robert Kingsley, Ph.D. Daniel Silbergeld, M.D. Tuesday, March 25, 1997 
Session 5: ~~E.R." (Emergency Room) 
Mark Walsh, M.D. Tuesday, April1, 1997 
• 
Session 6: Ethics in Managed Care 
Panel Discussion Philip Newbold, Gary Fromm, M.D., Kevin McDonnell, Ph.D., Stephen Anderson, M.D., John Robinson, Ph.D., 
J.D., and Jerome Ivacic Tuesday, April 8, 1997 
facing junior Andrew Hebert. Hebert wowed the crowd on Sunday with his aggressive fighting style. Dowd is an expe­rienced boxer, having made an appearance in last year's finals. Hebert has the height advan­tage, while Dowd has the ex­perience. "Dowd is real strong, and he is patient," said Hebert. "He doesn't lose control, so it is hard to get him off balance. With Dowd, we won't be looking to throw a lot of punches so it should be a good fight." 
"He is a hard puncher and has a really good right," said Dowd about Hebert. "I am going to try to stay away from that as much as I can. I am probably not going to go inside and try to mix it up a lot either." 
Tonight's fights will answer whether or not the boxers have settled their nerves, or whether they are still on edge. 
-
-
-

-page 18 The Observer • SPORTS Wednesday, February 26, 1997 
• WOMEN'S BASKETBAll 

Morgan sparks Irish with 19 second half points 
Only eight players dress 
for game 
By JOE CAVATO 
Sports Writer 
The Mountaineers tried, but they could not climb the chal­lenge presented to them when the fourteenth ranked Notre Dame women's basketball squad visited their home court. 
It was a far cry from their 45 point drubbing of West Virginia earlier in the year, but both of the tallies look the same in the win column. The hosts gave the Irish a scare going into the locker room at halftime as they were within one. But. 19 second half points from NO superstar Beth Morgan led the way to a 80-6 7 victory. The win gives the Irish a 25-5 record, including a 17-1 mark in the Big East. The Mountaineers fell to 18­
11. 
The Irish squad which only dressed eight players had two score over 20 points and two additional players score in double figures as the starters were forced to play the majori­ty of the minutes. 

The high scoring first half of play saw the teams trade buck­ets as West Virginia shot 50 percent from the .field, while Notre Dame shot 49 percent. The half saw the lead change hands five times, and the score was also knotted eight times which is something that the Irish have not experienced recently. The Irish have cruised through the Big East, dominating most opponents. 
That was not the case last night in Morgantown. Behind the strong play of Maria Tochobanova and Talisha Hargis, the Mountaineers led the Irish until the midway point of the first stanza. After consecutive three-pointers from Mandy Honay and Hargis, WVU got out to their largest lead of the contest, leading 15­11 with just under 15 minutes remaining in the first half. 
Before senior forward Rosanne Bohman scored four consecutive points, sophomore guard Sheila McMillen dialed long distance to turn the tide 

-
The Observer/Mike Ruma 
Sophomore Sheila McMillen sparked the Irish off the bench with 7 points and 4 rebounds. 

Tickets now on sale for the Men's Big East Basketball Tournament 
r-----•-------.. 
1 M~rch 5·8, 1997 1 IMadison Square Garden I I New York City
... 
L-·------------.1I 
cricket packages are $Lt0.00 and can be purchased at the ')oyce een ~icket Office located in the upper level through }Vlonday, }Vlf!lrch 3. 
Office Hours: 9·5pm For more information call 631·7356 

and give Notre Dame a four point lead. Bohman turned in an excellent game from the power forward slot. She added 15 points, seven rebounds and played all but three minutes of the game. McMillen came off the bench to score stwen points and snag four rebounds in 25 minutes of play. 
The lead changed hands again in the first. Tochobanova had 14 first half points and five rebounds, help­ing her team grab their last lead of the game at 33-32 with 
5:24 remaining in tho flrst. 
Head coach Mu!Tot McGraw countered Tochobanova's strong play in the paint with the Big· East leading scorer, Katryna Gaither. 
The senior center. who avor­ages 19.7 ppg and 9.1 rpg, had 14 points and sevon robounds in tho first on her way to a double-double with 21 points and 16 rebounds on the evening. 
Junior Mollie Peirick also had a big first half. She had five of her six assists in the first and had only one turnover on the night. Peirick was also the team's fourth scorer in double figures as shn had 11. 
Notre Dame responded to the challenge that the Mountaineers presented when they came out of the locker room after the break. The Irish began the half with a 10­2 run that gave thern some breathing room, leading 53-44 with just under 15 minutes of action remaining. 
Both squads came out with cold hands as the Irish shot 39 percent, and the Mountaineers shot a dismal 29 pfm:ent. But the ability of tlw Irish to get to the free throw line was crucial as they made 1R trips in the second half. 
Morgan went 7 for 8 from the charity stripe as she led all scorers with 24 points. A three from Morgan and Gaither's dominance in the middle pushed the lead to 13 with over ten minutes remain­ing. However, the Mountaineers were not done as Rebecca Burbridge came off the bench and nailed two treys to pull them within seven. 
The Irish closed strong and ended the game with a lead equal to their largest of the contest, 13. 
The win closed the regular season for the Irish. and they will begin post season action when the Big East Tournament starts this weekend. Notre Dame finishes second in the Big East 6 to top ranked Connecticut. TIHJir 17-1 con­ference record is good for the second seed in the tournamont which will give them a bye in the flrst round. Thev will be in action next in quarterfinal play on March 2. 



....... 

thusiasm for a trip may be mis­employers. placed. Try to accomplish your 
~~==~~~L-~~~L____£~~~...u~~~~~~~~~~~ 
ACROSS 30 Nile bird 56 Vein 

..._ 
31 Academy 58 "The Island of student the Day Before" 
1 Conspiracy 
6 Thundering 32 Prearrange 
author 

11 Quipster 35 Suede feature 59 Broadcast 
14 Diminish 36 Straw hats 60 Bristles 
15 Stir up, in away 38 Part of a name 61 Consult 
16 Billy Joel's on a menu 62 Unkempt
"--to Extremes" 
39 Surprising "gift" 63 Discernment 
40 This comes in as March goes 

17 Limited group? 
19 Oriental DOWN 
out

absolute 41 Quite some 1 Stadium
20 Kind of steel distance off souvenirs 21 Astronaut in 
42 Gofer's 2Biindas-­
1996 news assignment 3 Theda the vamp23 Undercover 44 Joan of Arc, e.g. 
4 Now and then 24 "Frasier" 5 Inaugural Rock operative 46 Salon treatment 
character 48 Figures and Roll Hall of 25 Communion 49 Gentle as-­
Fame inductee 
dishes 50 Unexpected &Jibe 28 Like TV's Jaime 55 Malaysian 7 Flagwoman? . Sommers export a Circus cries 9 Elvis's "A Fool Such--" ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 10 Moves in the 

Puzzle by Chet Currier 
garden 11 Sorcery 
29 Time to beware 44 Sportscaster 50 Resentful Albert
.;.;.+7-f~::=-+::=-! 13 Former Philly 
Twice" author suffixes
46 Clotho and 33"Now--me Lachesis 53 Spiffy 18 Right-angle down ..." 47 Author Walker 54 Jubilation 
mayor Wilson 
joints 34 Actress who 48 To whom "my 57 Golfer's 22 News inits. played heart belongs" concern Tootsie's
24Activist tootsie 
'!'!"P.!!"'r!'~ .-r~~~ 25 Loblolly, e.g. 
3&0newhom Answers to any three clues in this puzzle 
~-=+~..;. '!"!'F-EH 26 Down with: Fr. 
Pilate pardoned are available by touch-tone phone: r--EBB~'!"!!.;::..r.:+:-t=.fl!l!l =+:-7+..;.+:::-1 27 Harrison 1-900-420-5656 (75¢ per minute).
37 Kind of historysobriquet 
Annual subscriptions are available for the 

41 Uzbek lake
-=-+-=+,-+:~~~ 28 Like some best of Sunday crosswords from the last breath 43 Hoops target 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 

ATTENTION RECOVERING STUDENTS!! 
-
.. 

ARE YOU AN ACTIVE MEMBER OF ALCOHOLICS ANONYMOUS? WOULD YOU BE WILLING TO DO SERVICE BY HELPING US BEGIN AN OPEN A.A. 
MEETING ON CAMPUS? WE HAVE MANY NEW STUDENTS WHO NEED YOUR SUPPORT!! 
•

IF YOU ARE INTERESTED, PLEASE CONTACT GINA POGGIONE AT THE 
OFFICE OF ALCOHOL AND DRUG EDUCATION AT 631-7970. 
-

CREAM O'THE VALLEY ROAD ED LEADER 
DOG, "THAT TAKES 1DNS OF HARD WOR~ Al'\tl DEDICATION/CAN YOU 'r\1\NDLE. li? 
NO PROBLEM. WHEN :r:: GO IN THE RING, SPARKS ARE GONNA FLY. 
MOTHER GOOSE & GRIMM MIKE PETERS 
Wednesday, February 26, 1997 The Observer • TODAY page 19 
YOUR HOROSCOPE JEANE DIXON 
HAI'I'Y BIRTHDAY! 1\ THE goaJ:... with a confcren~..:c call or c­NEXT YEAR OF YOlR LIFE: mai I. A shre\\·d husinc" I) pc re­
Let your imaginalinn takL· flight. quire~ careful handling. Paint, wrilc or compo.\e! f..Jarri~1gc VII{(;() (Aug. 2.1-Sept. 221: Re­and family life will he 'ources ol main open to other points of view: delight throughout IY97. Remain they could give you valuahlc food lnw·key when around intemc incli­I(Jr thought. Routine chores can he viduals. A major hu>incss tkci,ion postponed for something much more looms next fall. Go ahead and take a challenging. Just stay on your toes chance on an cxL"itlll~ nev.. \Cilture: when around higher-ups. widespread rccogniti~lll will follm' LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): You Next Dcccmhcr finds you full of may he pushing too hard. Give some creative ideas. Join fon.:cs with an thought to pulling hac~. Although energetic ncighhor or colleague. A financial matters are on ynur mind, timely investment brings la:-.ting fi­there arc more important things. A nancial security. child needs plenty of TLC to over­
CELEBRITIES BORN ON come a fear. Be patient. THIS DAY: country music star SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21 ): Johnny Cash. rock 'n roll legend You arc moving in the right direc­Fats Domino, actress Betty Hutton. tion where work is concerned. Suc­swimmer Jenny Thomp>on. cess stems from your engaging in a 
ARIES (March 21-April 1'.!): multitude of activities. You will The :-.ignab you get in husint.!ss arc have your pick of cligihlc romantic contradictory. Wait Ior funhcr devel­partners; choose wisely. opments. Examine merchandise SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. very carefully when sales are tinaL 21 ): You will accomplish much A friend's behavior may have you more today if you seek solitude. Pay puzzled. careful attention to job-related 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): research. Be as organized as possi­Your business plans may be affected ble. A clandestine romance could by uncenainty. Preparation and self­end in heartache. confidence will see you through. CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. You know who you are and what 19): Look at a problem in the light you want from life. of a friend's experiences. Teamwork 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): is the key to boosting productivity. Someone may try to sell you a bill A romantic relationship deserves top of goods. Refuse to be sweet-talked priority this evening. into doing something that is against AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): your best interests. lmellectual en­Continue to work on an ambitious deavors are favored this afternoon. project without revealing what it is 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): all about. Profits are about to The soft sell will work best now. increase, making a promotion or Use charm when making a presenta­new perks possible. tion but avoid giving away the store. PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): The social scene looks lively to­Keep moving. The people you meet night. Romance casts its lure. You now can help you achieve long­could meet your ideal mate! sought goals. An excellent day for 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Your en­writing letters and contacting former 

DILBERT SCOTT ADAMS 
HAVE. YOU S£.T UP OUR 8" OFF-5IT£. MEETING 50 WE ~ C.AN TALK ABOUT HOW ~ 
" 

OVERWORKED YOU ARE.? ~ 
>-­
" 

I WAS THINKING WE. 
DID YOU KNOW Tl-\f:o..T 

SHOULD INVITE THE. 
lF YOU'RE A 5Tf:..TE 

RE.ST OF THE. STAFF, TOO. 
TROOPE.R 1'YOU CAN 51-\00T 
WE CAN Ol5CUSS OUR 
AN'Y ANIMA.L THAT'S 

MISSION :,TAT£.1"'\ENT, 
BEEN \-\IT 5Y A CAR? 

MAYBE.. 1-\A.VE A SACK RACE. 
1 


• 


SPORTS 
page 20 Wednesday, February 26, 1997 
• MnlS BASKETBAll 

Irish end home season on a high note 
Seniors bid 
farewell with a victory 
By JOE VILLINSKI Associate Sports Editor 
As Pat Garrity stepped to the free throw line last night to seal a second consecutive Irish victory, he finally heard what he had been seeing. 
All night long, Joyce Center fans had shown Garrity their support by raising signs pro­claiming the Notre Dame star this year's Big East MVP. Led by the student section, the crowd then chanted that re­frain, while Garrity appeared calm and collected as always. 
After the game, Garrity took time to reflect on the moment. 
Still, calm and collected. But with a smile and a hope these fans are preaching the truth. 
"That was nice," Garrity said. "First it was nice to see the student body is behind us because that is a big part of this. We're playing for Notre Dame, and the kids are who make this school wliat it is. That was special." 
On what was senior night, those students had plenty to cheer about as the junior led 
see B-BALL I page 13 


Team takes baby steps toward goal 
By TIM SHERMAN Sports Editor 
Notre Dame is a baby when it comes to the Big East. But that baby is quickly learning to walk. 
And like any other baby, it has been a step-by-step pro­cess. 
"The first step is to defend your home court," said Irish coach John MacLeod. "We've done that." 
"The next steps are to win some games on the road and make it into the top 50 in the country. We haven't done that yet but we're making progress." 
But nowhere has the progress been more evident than at the Joyc·e Center. 
With last night's 69-60 vic­tory over Miami, Notre Dame ended its home slate with a 12-3 record. including an im­pressive 7-2 Big East mark. 
"They have improved tremendously," offered Miami coach Leonard Hamilton. "They know Coach MacLeod's system very well." 
And with knowledge, comes growth. 
see STEPS I page 14 
• BENGAL BOUTS 

Veterans look to make debut in Bouts' semifinals 
By TIM SHERMAN SportS Editor 

There was something miss­ing from Sunday's first round of Bengal Bout action. 
Actually, there were a few somethings missing. 
For starters, there were ho quarterfinal heavyweight fights, due to the fact that there are just four heavy­weight contenders. 
Perhaps more noticeable were the absences of two-time champions Mike Mantey (190 pounds) and Troy Phillips, as each advanced with a bye. 
Beginning tonight. the rest of the field won't be lucky, as both Mantey, an officer of the Boxing Club, and Phillips, a top seed {like Mantey), make their 1997 debuts. 
"It's going to be hard going in there cold," Mantey said. "But I'm really looking for­ward to it. Plus, I got to see my opponent." 
That OJ:>ponent, graduate stu­dent and first-time Bengal Bouter Craig Prins, will have his work cut out for him against the experienced and dangerous Mantey. 
"The one thing about him is that he's a lefty," said Mantey. "And that will cause some problems. I just have to fight my fight." 
In the other 190 fight, Mike Velten will also see action for the first time. His first round was a walk-over. He will have to contend with the strong Todd Carcelli. 
Probably the most competi­tive class of the heavier weights is the 180-pound class. . Defending champion Brian Gaffney is undefeated thus far in his two-year career and continues to gain valuable ex­perience. 
"He's a tough kid and a tough puncher," appraised second-seeded Mike Debiasi. 
Gaffney will be looking to advance against Mike Romanchek. 
The second semifinal contest has the makings to be one of the better fights of the evening, as Aaron Yoder will square off against DeBiasi. 
Yo.der, a freshman who is seeded third in the division, showed good poise and savvy Sunday. With a long reach, Yoder had the patience to feel his opponent out before capi­talizing on opportunities. 
"ln any other fight against a 
see BOUTS/ page 16 

• 
vs. Michigan State 
• 

\_ February 28, 7 p.m. 
• Women's basketball victorious 
at Big East Tournament 
Women's Tennis at 
March 1-4 
Wisconsin, February 27 
see page 18 
• 
Men's Tennis at Michigan 
Softball at NFCA Leadoff 
• 

• Pacers fall to Bullets 
Classic, February 28 
State, Today 
see page 12
• 





