-------------------------~----------------------------------------------------------------------~----------­
__ The state of affairs in South Dining Home Football Weekend ..J ND assistant volleyball coach Elaina Hall will change again after fall break as 
Oden will face a familiar nemesis on North0 Check out the Schedule of Events to Carolina's coaching staff when the teams construction continues. 
see what's going on around campus, face off tonight-her sister. Back page
p.3 
where it's and when. 7 


Friday, October 17, 1997 • Vol. XXXI No. 40 THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
• SECURITY BEAT 
Police: Imposter officer pulls over ND student 
Observer Staff Report Security/Police report. report said. The student, thinking the vehi­At that point, the student 
A Notre Dame student driving cle was in fact a police car, found the registration, and ihe ncar campus was pulled over by pulled to the side of the road man let her go, the report con­a man claiming to be a St. near the intersection of Bulla tinued. Joseph County police officer and Ironwood roads. The driver "We don't believe [the man's early Thursday morning. of the other car allegedly vehicle) was a police car," said 
At 12:45 a.m., the student was approached her vehicle and Chuck Hurley, assistant director turning onto Ironwood Road requested her driver's license of Notre Dame Security, who after stopping at the Burger and registration. noted that St. Joseph County King at the intersection of that When the student said she police reports indicate that no road and Indiana 23 when she could not find the registration, one was pulled over by county noticed a vehicle with nashing the man told her that she would authorities at that location at lights on its grill following her, have to get into his car and "go acco·rding to a Notre Dame down to the police station," the see SECURITY/ page 6 
FRIDAY FEATURE 


Workin' ... in a van down by the Joyce Center 

GTE Road Trip brings on-site college football coverage to Internet 
By MATTHEW LOUGHRAN Associate News Editor 
1 he heavily decorated rec­reational vehicle parked by Gate 10 !),f. the Joyce Center is the office of two men who call themselves "R<iZi'l:I Warriors." 
Matt Thomson and Bill Emkow, in town for the Notre Dame vs. USC football game on Saturday, started the season at Notre Dame The Observer/Kevin Dalum 
vs. Georgia Tech; drove to West Pat Garrity of Notre Dame's men's basketball squad participates in an on-line chat Tuesday night in the GTE Road Trip RV. The chat is still accessible on the Web.
Lafayette for the Purdue game the following week; and to Columbus At each stop along the way, the "We roll into town on Sunday for the Ohio State vs. Arizona two write pre-game features, a and try to get the phone lines set game in week three. story about the game and post-up so that we can go on the 
Their job? To travel to the game features, all of which are Internet," Emkow said. "Then we biggest college football game in then posted to the World Wide look for stories about the town, the country every week of the sea­Web. Thomson takes pictures of the people and the experience of son, an operation called the GTE the game and Emkow writes the Road Trip. stories. see FEATURE/ page 12 


Douglas Rd. 
Site where aNotre Dame student was pulled over

College Park 
early Thursday by aman Bulla Rd. allegedly posing as a police officer 


Campus View,.,_ . 
,.. , ·tlJfo:: 

Malloy, alums try to aid girl's quest for visa 

Filipino student hopes to attend ND in August '98 
By KRISTINA ZURCHER News Writer 
The U.S. Embassy in Manila has repeatedly denied a 15-year-old Filipino girl access to a student visa because she is poor, according to Commander Vincent Converse, a 1976 Notre Dame alumnus. 
Jenalee Almes received a full scholarship to St. Gregory's Preparatory School in Arizona and intended to come to the U.S. in August. She had planned to apply to Notre Dame for further study in the area of computer science. However, the U.S. Embassy refused her request for a student visa, Converse said. 
Many poor foreign students remain in the U.S. after their instruction because the opportunities are greater here than in their own countries. The embassies assume that most poor students will stay in the U.S. instead of returning to their homes and thus deny their visa requests. 
"The situation is a catch-22. If you're a poor student overseas, you have to stay that way because there are no opportunities available to you," said Converse, who is trying to help Almes. 
Converse stayed in the Philippines while with the Navy and employed members of the Almes family for a time. According to Converse, he and his wife "adopted" several Filipino families, including the Almes family. 
Converse contacted University President Father Edward Malloy regarding Almes' visa problem, and both men wrote several letters to congressmen about the case. Several Indiana 
see ALMES/ page 6 
This is the last issue of The Observer until Tues., Oct. 28. 
Cheer on the Irish football team when it plays USC and Boston College, and have a safe October break. 
• INSIOE COLUMN 


Change the 

Cheer 
As the daily editor of this column, I have 
the opportunity to read about some wide 
ranging topics expressed by our Observer 
staff-whether I want to or not. 
Some of my favorite ~~~~~~~ 
columns. and most fre­
quent I might add, deal 
with such issues as 
stress, friendship, idiots 
riding on golf carts, and 
my personal favorite ­
campus squirrels. 
This is all well and 
good, and believe me 
these columns are nec­
essary every once in 
awhile. But the problem 
is that we are avoiding the crucial issue on 
campus. 
No, I am not talking about the "Spirit of 
Inclusion," or Saint Mary's rights, or that 
business is a shallow major. These issues 
have been covered. What I am referring to 
has been weighing heavily on many a stu­
dents' mind: the changing of the Lou Holtz 
cheer. 
For years the 1812 Overture has been a 
fixture at Notre Dame sporting events. In 
the early 1980s, at basketball games, it was 
played frequently. At football games in the 
late 1980s it developed into a tribute to Lou 
Holtz -and will always be remembered as 
such. 
We are all very aware that at the end of 
the third quarter at football games it's time 
to raise our arms..We do it almost subcon­
sciously. But instead of the familiar "Lou" in 
time with the music, this year we have been 
informed to chant "Bob." 
I have noticed that many of us are not 
very enthusiastic about the change. Some 
students have taken to raising L's instead of 
B's and continue to chant Lou. Others refuse 
to participate at all. 
Why is this? 
It's not because the Notre Dame student 
body doesn't like Coach Davie. Most of us 
accept him and look forward to him leading 
the team for years to come. The problem is 
that the cheer is the Lou Holtz Cheer. 
Period. 
This cheer was a special tribute every 
game by the student body to Lou Holtz and 
an indication of the relationship built 
between the two over the years. In other 
words, Lou Holtz earned that cheer. It does 
not seem right to simply switch it over to 
another person. Even if we were instructed 
to change the cheer for the president of the 
United States, or better yet the pope, I have 
a feeling it would still be a strange transi­
tion for the student body, and hard to 
accept. 
We don't have to get rid of the 1812 
Overture. It's a tradition and should remain 
that way. And if we would like to do a cheer 
to honor Coach Davie, let's be original. I 
think the creative minds at this University 
should be able to think of something. 
Maybe instead of focusing on squirrels and 
how stressed out we· all are, we should 
spend more of our time on issues like devis­
ing a cheer for our present coach if that's 
what we want. 
But, nevertheless, let's not cheapen the 
tribute to our former coach by passing it 
down to everyone that comes along. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
page 2 . 


• TOOAY's STAFF  
News  Graphics  
Heather Cocks  Dave Piening  
Nicole Swartzentruber  Production  
Sports  Laura Petelle  
Sarah Dylag  Heather Cocks  
Allison Krilla  Lab Tech  
Viewpoint  Patrick Quigley  
Tara Churik  
Accent  
Joe Weiler  

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of rhe Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 

Friday, October 17, 1997 
The Observer • INSIDE 





utside the Dome 
compiled from U-Wire reports 

Lawsuit against U of M may reach Supreme Court 
ANN AHBOR, Mich. 
The lawsuit filed Tuesday against the University claiming that under­graduate admissions policies blatantly discriminate by race has the potr.ntial 
of setting precedent in the U.S. Supreme Court, some legal experts 

say. 
The Center for Individual Rights. the same law firm that won the ground­breaking Hopwood affirmative action case in the 5th Circuit Court of Appeals last year, filed a class-action lawsuit against the University, the College of Literature, Science and Arts, University President Lee Bollinger and former President James Duderstadt. The suit claims that race is a deciding factor in admissions. 
The last Supreme Court case that ruled on affirmative action in higher education was Bakke vs. University of California in 1978. 

"It seems clear to me that the court will have a case before it to clarify Bakke," said University of Alabama Law Prof. Bryan Fair, who recently wrote a book supporting affirmative action. "It seems unavoidable. The liti­gation is mounting." 
Opponents of affirmative action agree that the Supreme Court must hr.ar a casr. involving affirmative action in admissions to colleges and universitir.s. 
"I don't normally think we need to have one solid ruling for everything across the board," said David Boaz, executive vice president of the Cato Institute, a conservative think tank. "But in these circumstances, there are fundamental rights br.ing violated." 
William Allen, former chair of the 
U.S. Commission on Civil Rights and a law professor at Michigan State University, said thcrr, are currently no guidelines set by the Supreme Court regarding affirmative action in admis­sions. 
"Bakkr. does not answer the ques­tions of aflirmative adion that current lawsuits produce," Allen said. 
In the Bakke ruling. Justice Lewis Powell wrote that admissions policies that use racial quotas are unconstitu­tional, but universities may use race as one of many factors to determine admission if it rectifies past discrimi­nation. 
Those arc not specific guidelines, Allen contends, but only Powell's opin­ion. 
"There is a need for the Supreme Court to set concrete guidelines," Allen said, adding that lawsuits such as the one against the University would not occur once the Suprenw Court rules delinitively on the issun. 
• YALE UNIVERSITY District Court scrutinizes housing policy 
NEW HAVEN, Conn 
The four Orthodox Jewish students' civil suit, liled yes­
terday afternoon in the New Haven U.S. District Court, claimed that Yale's mandatory housing policy violates the students' federal constitutional rights and contractual agreements between the students and Yale. Naming Yale University, Yale college dean Hichard Brodhead, and dean of Student Affairs Betty Trachtenburg as defendants, the students' lawyer Nathan Lewin filed a thirty-page list of eight legal claims. The suit followed weeks of failed negoti­ations, in which the students decided they were unable to · live in the Yale dorms without compromising the modesty their religion requires. In the suit, Lewin alleged that Yale religiously discriminates against the students by refusing either to grant exceptions to the housing rules or to accommodate the students within the dormitories. He asked the court to abolish Yale's housing policy, and to force Yale to return the students' money and pay the stu­dents' legal fees. Yale legal counsel Dorothy Hobinson said 
Yale will probably file a motion to dismiss the claims. 
• OKLAHOMA UNIVERSITY 

OU professor recovers from shooting 
NOHMAN, Okla. 
An OU professor who was mugged and grazed by a bullet 
Tuesday night was back at work Wednesday. Charles 
Sexauer, who is also a pediatric doctor at University Hospital 
in Oklahoma City, was walking to his ear at around 11 p.m. 
in an OU Health Sciences Center parking lot when a 17 -year­
old man accosted him, said Jake Lowrey, University Hospital 
spokesman. "He asked him for his keys and wallet," Lowrey 
said. "The doctor gave them to him and then he was told to 
turn around." Lowrey said the doctor turned around and the 
man fired a gun at him. The bullet hit the doctor above and 
behind his ear. "Luckily the bullet just grazed him," Lowrey 
said. He said the suspect ran away, not making any effort to 
take the professor's ear. Sexauer went across the street to 
University Hospital where he was immediately placed in the 
emergency room, Lowrey said. "A Health Seiences Center 
police unit heard the shot ... and spprehended him." 
• COLORADO UNIVERSITY 
Sports, sweatshops, and the swoosh 
BOULDEH. Colo. 

Varsity athletes have many anxiety-creating n~sponsibili­
ties to fulfill on game day. They must get enough sleep, eat 
right and they must remember to bring all of thPir Nikt~ 
apparel. Nike's $5.6 million eontract with CU requires varsity 
athletes to wear the Nike issued gear. with the visiblt~ 
swoosh, to all practices, games, exhibitions, clinics and any 
other sporting event sponsored by CU. For varsity volleyball 
player Shana Bowen , this means grabbing the correct Nike 
shoes, shorts, kneepads. socks and shirt. "1 feel privilt~ged to 
be sponsored by Nike," the sophomore sodology major said. 
"It's like being paid." CU signed the six-year contract with 
Nike in June. The initial face-value is $5.6 million, not 
ineluding bonuses the school may receive from Nike. In addi­
tion to the money, the $5.6 million includes footwear, appar­
el and equipment. The contract originated in October 1995 
and CU took two years to examine the contract. which was 
officially signed May 12, by athletic director Hirhard Tharp 
and chancellor Hichard Byyny. The contract goes through 
the 2000-01 school year. 

• IDAHO STATE UNIVERSITY 
ISU faces lawsuit over credit policy 
PHOVO, Utah 

A lawsuit challenging Idaho State Univnrsity's policy of ·offering university credit for religious classes is continuing through the efforts of 10 Idaho residents and numerous anonymous donors. The lawsuit, which originally protested a land-swap between ISU and the LDS church, was allowed to eontinue on the issue of the for-credit institute classes after of the· the land-swap issue was thrown out of eourt. Carole Wells, a local board member of the American Civil Liberties Union. who became a full-time student after filing the law­suit, leads the suit claiming that college credit for institute classes violates separation of church and state. "I feel that since we do have a first amendment that calls for separation of chureh and state, we need to be very careful about the oversight that they exert over a program like that," Wells said. She enrolled in two courses offered by the LDS institute of religion eourses last year. 


Saturday ~ 59 42 Sunday ~ 57 42 Monday ~ 54 39 I 
COLD WARM STATIONARY 
!0 1997 AccuWeather. Inc.

I 
p,essu'• .JAcl. <(3 '') ,.--."\
H L GJ &'SJ [TI] 0 GSJ 8 ~ ~ C,.__,!.

Tuesday ~ 54 36 
HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT CLOUDY CLOUDY
I 
Vta Associated Pr•ss 
~......Y..........) 

Atlanta 68 54 Dallas 73 48 New Orleans 71 
56 Baltimore 59 48 Denver 76 40 New York 57 
49 Boston 57 42 Los Angeles 89 67 Philadelphia 60 
46

;?,Q,~4.8Q~~u 
Chicago 64 37 Miami 85 68 Phoenix 92 65
'howers T-storms Rain Fl.;r;ies s;ioW Ice Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy 
Columbus 58 36 Minneapolis 64 45 St. Louis 61 43
a Associated Press GraphicsNet 

• SOUTH BENO WEATHER • NATIONAL WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forcast 

The AccuWeather<ll>forecast for noon, Friday, Oct. 17. 
AccuWeather'" forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 
Lines separate high temperature zones for the day. 
H L 

Friday ~ 58 40 
-------·-------------~-------·--------­
Friday, October 17, 1997 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
• CoNSTRUCTION BEAT 

SDH switches to buffet format after fall break 
By NICOLE SWARTZENTRUBER News Writer 
While Notre Dame students prepare for a week of rejuve­nation. South Dining Hall awaits a week of reorganiza­tion. 
To allow for further con­struction, the east and eest dining rooms will convert to buffet style, effectively closing off South's kitchen services. 
North Dining Hall will supply the majority of the food for South's buffets. A truck will run entrees in "hot boxes" from North to South with three major deliveries per meal, and any needed in between. 
"Our job is to get the food out of North in a timely manner, making sure South is provided with hot food," said Todd Hill, operations manager for North Dining Hall. 
North will supply the buffets with three entrees, two starch foods, and two vegetables. The selection will simply be a con­densed version of the North Dining Hall menu. 
Notre Dame Food Services is, however, attempting to create some alluring aspects for the buffet. The salad, pasta, and hot food bars will remain intact, and Eggo waffles may be available for every meal. 
Food Services plans to offer Pop Tarts and Hot Pockets, along with a "mini-special." 
South Dining Hall general manager Reggie Kalili, expressed his interest in pro­~iding a greater variety with the "mini-special." He listed specials such as "dessert night," or "dishes from around the world" as some possibili­ties. 
Kalili said that he is open for suggestions as well: "As long as we can do it, we'll try it," he said. Suggestion boxes are in every dining room on cam­pus, and students are encour­aged to submit their ideas for improvement. 

The change in physical lay­out of the dining halls will require students' patience and cooperation. The partition currently separating the east and west dining rooms will come down, and all five sets of doors will be open for use. 
Students will enter the dining rooms through the two sets of double doors on either end of the foyer. The path for food will run across the stage, to the far wall, down the steps, and along the two buffet tables. Four lines of traffic will go down either side of the tables, and flow into the salad bar area. Students will exit through the double doors adja­cent to the entrance. 
South Dining Hall will signifi­cantly depend on North Dining Hall for its provisions after October break, but it will have a mini-kitchen at the front of the dining hall to cook as much food on location as possible. 
Kalili admits that buffet style is not an ideal mode of service for the masses that eat at South Dining Hall, but he said, "right now it seems to be the best plan to accommodate everyone." 
South Dining Hall will remain buffet style through the end of the school year, with the antic­ipation of a new and improved dining hall next fall. 
Diamond PriceQuotations 246-1939 
Thinking of purchasing a diamond? Choose wisely with information in our complimentary book, Diamonds Magnified, 186 pages, hardbound. 


The Dian1ond Authority® 
A Division of John M. Marshall's, Inc. Established 1965 
Monday-Friday, lOa.m. to 6p.m. 
KeyBank Building, Suite #101 South Bend, Indiana 46601 

REMINDER.· 
Think long and hard over fall break about dropping that class, because Fri., Oct. 31, is the last day to drop. 
See your local registrar. 
*No passes 
1997 LAW FAIR . 

List of Universities/Colleges Attending: 
University of Akron 
Albany Law School-Union Univ. 
Am. Univ.-Washington College 
Univ. of Arizona College of Law 
Boston College Law School 
Brooklyn Law School 
Univ. of California-Davis 
Univ. of So. California-L.A. 
Catholic Univ. of Am.-Columbia 
Chicago-Kent College of Law 
University of Cincinnati 
Columbia Law Se;hool 
Univ. of Dayton School of Law 
Univ. of Denver School of Law 
DePaul Univ. College of Law 
Detroit College of Law-MSU Univ. of Detroit Mercy Dickinson Univ. School of Law 
Duke Univ. SchooJ of Lnw 
Duquesue Univ. School of Law 
Emory Univ. School of Law Fordham Univ. School of Law
I George Washington University Hamline University Univ. of Illinois-Urbana
I I Indiana Univ.-Bloomington Indiana Univ.-Indianapolis Univ. of Iowa College of Law
I I 
John Mar~hall Law School 
1·-·"" -·~-·-·· '"";J William Mitchell College J I Williamnette University I I 
Lewis & Clark La-w School Loyola Law School-L.A. University of Maine Marquette University Northeastern University No. Illinois University Northwestern University University of Notre Dame Ohio Northern University University of Pennsylvania University of Pittsburgh Quinnipiac College University of Richmond Roger Williams University St. Louis University St. Mary's lfniv.-Texas Univ. of San Francisco Seton Hall University Syracuse University Temple University Univen:ity of Texas University of Toledo Tulane University Valparaiso University Vanderbilt University Vallanova University Wake Forest University Washington & Lee Univ. Widener University 
Yeshiva University I KAPLAN 




DON'T MISS IT! 
.II 
!1 


J 

LED BY. 
GROVER MITCHELL 
the 
Yeayjlthe
@7t/nrnni 
WITH DRUMMER BuTCH MILES 
FALL GAIA 

~~asie 
7:30 p.m. Thursday, October 30 Indiana University South Bend Main Auditorium Tickets: $35 a person A Dessert Reception Will Follow the Concert Call the IUSB Box Office (219) 237-4203 
I 
IUSB 


I 
1.......-----·---·~-----·--~--------------"'··'~·--· 


----~ ----~-------­
--~------·-----~---------~----------. 
page 4 

The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT Friday, October 17, 1997 

Win an all expense paid trip to the ND ys. Hawaii game

'WIN!• 

in Hawaii. Includes airfare, hotel accommodations, tickets to the game and Champion prize packs. 
Please stop by the Hammes Bookstore or Varsity Shop for program details. 
THE HAMMES 
NOTRE DAME 
BOOKSTORE 
"On the Campus" Phone: 631-6316 
• 
' 
' 
' 
' 
~ 
' 
f'
' 
' 





Friday, October 17, 1997 
'Who has more expe~ 
rience with the fail~ 
ures and the small 
number of successes 
than I?' 
Mario Cuomo, about his qualificatiom to he a delegate at New York's com,ention to amend the state's 200 year­old constitution 
• WORLD BRlHS 
NATO urges Serbs to vote against Karadzic supporters 
SARAJEVO 
The NATO-led peace force has dropped 
leaflets over the northern Bosnian town of 
Brcko, urging voters not to support war 
crimes suspect Radovan Karadzic in elections 
later this year. "Support the leaders who, by 
their cooperation with the international com­
munity, make your equal participation in th.e 
programs of reconstruction possible," says 
one of the thousands of leaflets NATO 
dropped this week. Brc:ko is crucial to Serbs, 
Croats and Muslims because of its strategic 
location -its proximity to Croatia and its 
position on a narrow stretch of territory link­
ing Serb-held lands in Bosnia's east and west. 
It is currently held by the Serbs under strict 
international supervision, but its future will be 
decided by international arbitration. Elections 
for a new Serb National Assembly and presi­
dent are scheduled for November and 
December. 
Lawyers: Kevorkian unlikely to get prosecuted 
DETROIT 
Dr. Jack Kevorkian is practically in a free-suicide zone these days. Dr. Death has takPn part in at least 23 suicides since August 1996. and ncitlwr state nor county prosecutors have brought charges against him. Police haven't even bothered to bring him in for questioning; they usually just talk with his lawyer. Last fall, David Gorcyca got elected Oakland County prosecutor in part by arguing that his prede­cessor had wasted money pursuing cases against Kevorkian. And in Macomb County, the prosecutor has all but given up, and even agreed to meet with Kevorkian about working out a more dignified way to drop off the bod­ies. "It does appear as if Jack Kevorkian has been granted the implicit authority to be able to assist in suicides in southeastern Michigan under the current state of the law," said Larry Dubin, law professor at University of Detroit Mercy. Said Kevorkian's lawyer, Geoffrey Fieger: "They're afraid. They're never going to prosecute." 

Canada mourns crash victims 
ST-BERNARD. Que. 
Farming families and politicians, including Canada's prime minister, grieved together Thursday at a memorial Mass for 42 senior citizens killed when their bus plunged into a ravine. As the Rev. Marc-Andre Lachance slowly read the names of the victims of Monday's crash, his voice sometimes breaking with emotion, a mourner lit a candle and placed a red rose near the altar. Dozens of burning candles and roses soon filled the area. The accident, which killed the driver as well as the 42 Golden Age Club members, was the worst bus crash ever in Canada. Five members of the tour group survived and are in serious but stable condition at a hospital in Quebec City, about 20 miles from the site of the accident. "Despite the pain that I have in my heart, I have a lot of admiration for them," Lachance said of the victims. 

COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 

Sri Lanka probes cause of bombing 

Seven Americans die in explosion; officials suspect rebel faction 
By NIRESH ELIAT AMBY 
Associated Press Writer 
COLOMBO, Sri Lanka 
A day after a truck bomb exploded in the heart of Colombo, many resi­dents of Sri Lanka's capital refused to leave their homes, afraid of more attacks despite an abundance of fresh troops in the streets. 
The truck bomb went off in the parking lot of a five-star hotel, caus­ing heavy damage to the building, a neighboring hotel and the twin towers of the 39-story World Trade Center, which had~just opened on Sunday. Eighteen people were killed in the bombing and subsequent gunbattles with rebels in Colombo on Wednesday. More than 100 were wounded, including seven Americans. 
The government blamed Tamil 
• ARGU\!TINA 

rebels, who want an independent nation in the north of Sri Lanka ­formerly Ceylon -which lies at the southern tip of India. 
Sri Lanka's largest Tamil rebel group, the Liberation Tigers of Tamil Eelam, denied responsibility. But the attack had all the hallmarks of the Tigers -a truck bomb and suicide squads carrying cyanide tablets on cords around their necks. Last week the group was designated a terrorist organization by the Clinton adminis­tration. 
On Thursday, workers cleared away broken glass and chunks of concrete from the shattered high rises. In all, 18 buildings were damaged. 
The government began an investi­gation into how Tamil rebels were able to get past security. Only trucks clearly marked as belonging to the two hotels were supposed to be allowed into the area of the bombing. 
With much of the business district still sealed off, Sri Lanka's stock 
see SRI LANKA/page 6 
B
uddhist 
monks 
carry the coffin of top monk Vitharandeniye Chandrajothi Thursday . 
Chandrajothi was shot dead Wednesday by · Tamil Tiger guerrillas. The authorities have blamed the Tamil Tiger guerrillas for the truck 
ing and several others, killing at least 20 and wounding 105. 
AP 


Clinton allies U.S. with Argentina 
By TERENCE HUNT 
Associated Press Writer 
BUENOS AIRES 
In moves watched uneasily in South America, President Clinton proclaimed Argentina a special military ally Thursday and defended his willingness to sell F -16 fighter jets to Chile. 
He said neither step would upset Latin America's mili­tary balance. 
"It would be the height of stupidity for these countries to go to war with each other." Clinton said of Latin America nations, which have been transformed from mili­tary dictatorships to stable democracies. 
Clinton reached out across Latin America in a televised town hall meeting whose sponsors said it was beamed to 500 million people in 33 countries in the hemisphere, some U.S. cities, as well as Spain and Portugal. 

Even far from home, Clinton was asked to defend his campaign fund-raising tactics, the subject of con­gressional hearings and a federal investigation. The president seemed surprised the issue arose among town hall questions focusing most­ly on immigration, drugs, trade and human rights. 
"The fundamental problem in America is there is no effective limitation on spend­ing" during campaigns and no free or reduced-cost access to communications for national and congressional candidates, he said. 
Clinton opened the day at a welcoming ceremony with President Carlos Menem at a monument to Argentina's founding father, Gen. Jose de San Martin, this country's equivalent of George Washington. A military band wore colorful uniforms and tall black hats, each adorned with a white feather. 
The president announced he had notified Congress of his intention to designate Argentina as a major non­NATO ally, the first country to win such status since the Cold War. It would rank with the likes of Australia, Israel, Egypt, Japan, South Korea and Jordan. Congress can object within 30 days. 
"Argentina has answered the call to peace," Clinton said, noting he was recogniz­ing the country for partic­ipating in U.N. peacekeeping missions from Guatemala and Haiti to Bosnia, Cyprus and Mozambique. 
Chile, Argentina's neighbor across the Andes, has expressed concern that the designation would upset the regional military balance. The political opposition here has raised similar questions. 
"There is nothing here designed to upset the mili­tary balance in South America," Clinton said, answering a critic at the town hall meeting. 

~-----­
page 6 The Observer • NEWS Friday, October 17, 1997 

• CONGO

Al01es 

Congo's president won't admit defeat 
continued from page 1 
100 rniles C.A.R..j
~ 
100 km 
CAMEROON 
--,--. t/ 
REPUBLIC (J
OFCONGO . 
{' 
~ 
Congo j!' 
(Zaire~// 
River I 
. · ~ CONGO 
Brazzaville!' (former Zatre) . . I )
''i.tp~mt!£1. 9,,l 
• i /• .. ' ' 
/9
;;.J. " Kinshasa 
France, Congo's former colo­nial ruler, said it saw no need to nvacuate its roughly 1,400 
and Arizona congressmen, 
By KAMANGA MUTOND 
including Dan Coates and 
Associated Press Writer Richard Lugar, have promised 
their support for Almes. 
KINSHASA, CongoAlmes presently attends a 
Militiamen who seized the 
high school in Manila and is liv­
capital of the Republic of ing with relatives there. 
Congo looted what was left byConverse said that in the 
their rivals Thursday, and their 
Philippines, when a child lives 
triumphant leader promised to with relatives. she is expected 
name a new government with­to do their housework. 
in days.
He said that Almes' typical Gen. Denis Sassou-Nguosso's
day begins at 3:30 a.m. when 
Cobra militia captured
she cooks the family breakfast. 
Brazzaville, tho capital of this 
She goes to school in the morn­
central African nation, and ing and comes home to make 
Pointe Noire, its second-largest
lunch. She returns to school in 
city, on Wednesday. With the the afternoon and then goes 
fall of the two cities, Sassou­
home to cook dinner and clean. 
Nguesso told Hadio France 
In the evenings, she does her 
Internationale on Thursdayhomework. 
that he considered his four­
"Jenalee is doing well so far, 
month war against President 
but I don't know how long she Pascal Lissouba's forc1~s over. 
can keep it up," Converse said. 
"We have nearly total control 
Converso added that if an of the country, control of tho 
overseas company made Almes political capital, and of the eco­
an offer now for a job after nomic capital," he said. 
graduation, she would be able Many reports on the confiict 
to prove to the U.S. Embassy in Brazzaville and the Republic
her intent to leave the U.S. after 
of Congo wore coming from 
finishing school. He is searching 
just across the river in 
for an American company with Kinshasa, capital of the simi­
branches overseas that would 
larly named Congo. Tho U.S. 
offer Almes a job. 
Embassy in Kinshasa con­
"She [Almes) has the drive 
lirmed Sassou-Nguesso's con-and determination to succeed, if only given a chance," Converse said. 
quest of Brazzaville. 

Lissouba refused to admit defeat and said from hiding Thursday that he still consid­ered himself the country's leader. 
"I cannot but considor mysnlf president since I do not yet have before me a successor democratically nlected as I was," Lissouba said in a teln­phone interview with Hadio Franco Intornationale. 
Novertheless, the rest of tho world appeared to have accepted that Sassou-Nguesso had driven his longtime rival from power. The French ambassador in Brazzaville, Haymond Cesairo, said Sassou­Nguesso's men controlled the city and were encountering "!'ower and fnwer pockets of resistancn." 
"We'ro not far from tho con­elusion of the war," Cesairn said by telephone. 
Militiamen were rushing to loot what little of value remained in the city after four months of warfare, he said, and were targeting neighbor­hoods considerod strongholds of Lissouba and his prime min­ister, Bernard Kolelas. 
Converse can be reached at 3100 N. Sourdough Place, Tucson, Ariz., 85749, or at (520) 7 49-5318. 


Th-e Avenue 
ERASMUS BOOKS 
• 
Use:l. rooks l::x:u;Jht. arrl sold 

• 
25 categories of Books 


• 25,000 Hardback and Paperback rooks in stock 
• 
OJt-of-Print Search Service: $2.00 

• 
Pwraisals laige arrl srall 


Open noon to six Tuesday through Sunday 1027 E. Wayne South Bend, IN 46617 (219) 232,8444 
is desperately seeking your submissions. Submit your essays, personal statements, critiques, arguments, & opinions to the envelope outside 310 Madeleva by October 31. 



Ducks, Rabbits~rechauns 


Experience the natural serenity qf North Shore Club, just minutesftom Notre Dame. 
• 
A wise investment for alumni, faculty and parents 

• 
More than 114 of our residents are part of the Notre Dame family • Waterfront views 

• 
Townhomes and condominiums from $89,000 Come visit us at .f;:;;.~ 


North Shore Club \!,~; 
Angela at the St. joseph River • South Bend 
Furnished Models Open Daily 
Sat. {i Sun. 12-5 p.m. • Mon.-Fri. 10 a.m.-6 p.m. 
219-232-2002. 800-404-4275 
HEY! ... Have you heard? Mail Boxes Etc. has 





5¢ COPIES 
MBE can also ship your Overnight & 2nd Day Air letter, UPS packages, take passport photos, fax, and much more. 

?.IJ 
MAIL BOXESETC: 
Corner of S.R. 23 & Ironwood in the Martin's Plaza Phone (219) 277-6245 Fax (219) 277-7679 Open 9am-7pm, M-F lOam-Spm, Saturday 

Security 
continued from page 1 
that time. 
The man is described as a white male in his 20s, 5-foot-6, with a heavy build and shoul­der-length hair, and wearing a blue shirt and blue jeans. His car was a four-door, maroon­colored, older model vehicle. 
Hurley cautioned students that il' an tin marked car with flashing lights pulls up behind their cars, they should drive to a populated area bel'orn they pull over. 
"II' t11f1 person approaching your ear is not in uniform. you should not stay there. Leave immediately," Hurley said. "Drive to a nearby phone or. if near campus. drive to one of our gates and let Security know what is going on." 
citizens from Pointe Noire, the commercial capital. 

EARN CASH BY DONATING 
You could earn: 
$2ooo after your first plasma donation! 
$15DD if you donate alone (first visit} 
+$ 500 if you show college I.D. (first visit} 
$20oo TOTAL! 

+$1 Qoo per person if you recruit someone and they donate twice 
HELP US SAVE LIVES/ 
Must be 18 years old; proof of current address with photo I.D. 
Come to: 
AMERICAN BIOMEDICAL 515 Lincolnway West 

South Bend, IN 46601-1117 Hours: Tu-F: 9:00-6:00 Sat: 8:00-5:00 234-6010 
-
-----~-------------~~--------~ 
----~--~-~~-----------..--------~---·­


Historic Campus Tour Glee Club Performance Irish Courtyard -open to public Center for the Homeless tours Marching Band Rehearsal Cheerleaders and porn pons Pep Rally 
Special Bookstore Hours Saint Mary's College tour Alumni flag football Cheerleaders and Porn Pons AA closed meeting Cheerleaders and Porn Pons Glee Club -ND in Revue Marching Band Concert Marching Band pre-game Notre Dame vs. Southern Cal Mass Mass Candlelight Dinner "Joseph & the Technicolor Dreamcoat" 
Mass 9 a,m. to 5:.)Q·p.ml Special Bookstore hours 

The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS page 7 

SMC adjusts financial aid program 
By COLLEEN McCARTHY 
News Writer 
The financial aid process can bring about feelings of love or hate, depending on which stu­dents or parents one speaks with. But the financial aid office at Saint Mary's College is trying to make the process as painless as possible for students and par­ents alike by instituting an indi­vidualized approach and dealing with some process problems. 
Because Saint Mary's College is an institution which costs over $20,000 a year with living expenses, financial aid is an issue for many students. 
"We look at each student's case on an individual basis and we go by the standards of ethical principles and practices for financial aid," said Mary Nucciarone, director of financial aid. "Our office always tries to adhere to that philosophy. We have a limited amount of 







MEET 
resources and we try to distrib­ute them as equitably as possi­ble." 
The first option for those seek­ing finacial aid is a scholarship which is based on both need and academic eligibility. Scholarships are followed by need-based grants and then campus employment opportuni­ties. According to Nucciarone, loans are viewed as a last resort. 
"There is a lot to the process, but our goal at Saint Mary's is to treat each person and family as an individual," she said. The commitment to individual treat­ment means that the office takes into account factors such as the death of a family member or fluctuation in income. 
According to Nucciarone, sometimes difficult situations arise involving students and families. One common situation that the office runs into is when a family refuses to contribute to a student's education. 
I
• 

In this case, the student wish­es to be viewed as independent in Drder to receive financial assistance. However, due to fed­eral regulations, the student is seen as a dependent. 
"In this situation, we have to ask many questions and while we empathize with the students and families, we can't help everyone," Nucciarone said. "This is sometimes perceived as being a negative experience with the financial aid office." 
She added, "While our goal is to always support the individual student, we train our support staff, which includes student workers, to be able to listen to what the students say when they come into the office and to be able to answer common ques­tions." 
Because the office is in a small space, some students are uncomfortable sharing confiden­tial information with the support staff. 
The staff often needs more information and facts to know who to refer the people to. Regarding this, Nucciarone said, "This is a problem that we are keenly aware of." 

AND All£ SUBJEtl TO CHANGE lllllll. PAilllli FUU. (All FOK OUR lOW IIOi'IFSTlC fAKESANDFAR£51llOIH[K\'IORlOWIO!OESTll1ATUIII"S.RESliUCIIONSAP1'U.· 
BIJTravel ­
CIH: Co•ocil on lntnnlllionllf Edllc:lllilmal bd~~~oi!Jle 
1-800-2-COUNCIL 
1-800-226-8624 

BUY DIAMONDS 

BELOW WHOLESALE! 
9!~ g'Je-ck £c w{Y.
Since 1921 

CHICAGO • NEW YORK • ANlWERP •ISRAEL 
Direct Diamond Importers 
1-800-922-0090 
or visit our website at 
sapeck.com 

Winner of The Reader's Digest 

LookSmort Editor's Choice Award 
17 1997

.:.._:::_pag_e8 ---------=-=The::........::..cOb=serv.:..c_:_er·PAID AOVI:<.RflS~EM~EN~T_____ Oc_rob_er , _
Fri____:_day_, _ 



Dear Alumni & Friends, 
The staff of Campus Ministry extends an invitation to come together and celebrate the Eucharist this weekend. 
USC Football Weekend October 18 and 19, 1997 

Saturday Vigil Masses 
Basilica 30 minutes after game 
Stepan Center 45 minutes after game 

Sunday Masses 
Basilica 8:00, 10:00 & 11:45 am 
Sacred Heart Parish Crypt 6:00, 7:00, 8:00, 

9:30 & 11:00 am 
0MPU5 

tV11NISTRY 
Friday, October 17, 1997 
The Observer • NATIONAL NEWS page 9 
Social Security checks pale co01pared to cost of living 
By ALICE ANN LOVE 
Associated Press Writer 
WASHINGTON 

Along with 44 million other Americans who receive Social Security benefits, Rufus Clayton will see his monthly check grow next year by just 2.1 percent ­in his case, $10.50 -the low­est cost-of-living raise in a decade. 
"They give you a little increase," said Clayton, 77, a retired bricklayer who helped build the Pentagon. "But you can believe me, you don't have ... extra money on Social Security. I mean, you have to watch your budget and watch it close." 
Like about 15 percent of retirees, Clayton's only income is from Social Security. Next year's cost-of-living increase. announced Thursday, will push his monthly check to about $514.50 from this year's $504. 
Clayton, who lives in a subsi­dized apartment for low-income elderly, still won't be able to afford market-rate rents in the nation's capital. And Clayton also will have to forgo buying any more of the snappy hats and ties he likes to wear. 
"That's the way you get through," Clayton said. 
Checks from the govern­ment's biggest benefit program are adjusted annually to keep inflation from eroding their buying power. 
For 1998, the adjustment means that starting in January 

XtreamZ Nightclub 1150 Mishawaka Ave. South Bend Ave. IN 46615 *******************************219-283-0653******************************* 
Eddy past LaFayette, right at Mishawaka Ave. Exit, at first light on right side. 
the average monthly check for 
retirees will rise by $16 to 
$765, said Commissioner 
Kenneth S. Apfel. The maxi­
mum check for retirees will rise 
to $1,342 from $1,326, based 
on a combination of factors 
including the cost-of-living 
adjustment. 
The average monthly pay­
ment to disabled workers will 
rise to $722 from $707. 
And the maximum monthly Supplemental Security payment for 6.5 million elderly or dis­abled individuals with low incomes also will rise 2.1 per­cent, or $10, to $494. 
That's the second-lowest cost of living increase since the adjustment became automatic in 1975. The low was 1.3 per­cent in 1987. 
"It is low. but that's the direct result of low inflation," said Apfel. "This low inflation is very good news." 
Separately, the agency said that for 144 million working Americans, the maximum annual earnings subject to Social Security payroll taxes next year will rise to $68,400 from $65,400. Because the rate at which earnings are taxed remains at 6.2 percent, the maximum Social Security tax will be $4.241. 
The cost-of-living adjust­ments are based on changes in the Consumer Price Index from the third quarter of one year to the third quarter of the next. 
Union contracts guarantee about 5 million working Americans similar raises tied to inflation, the AFL-CIO says. For most workers. however, raises are not a sure thing and wages grow at a lesser rate -a sea­sonally adjusted 0.8 percent 

Social Security 
,_\. SEf'(. 

B~n~fits paid.to 44 ~~ 
m~lhon Ame~cans "; llllfll )will grow by JUSt 2.1 4"'~em.,.~"' percent next year, the lowest cost-of-living raise in a decade 1998 19971! 
Average monthly benefits 
• Retired worker 
$765 $749 

• Retired couple 
$1.288 $1.261 
---~--­

• Widowed mother, two children 
$1.522 $1,491 

• 
Elderly widow or widower 

• 
Supplemental Security Income, individual 


ffi~Wiliilt  $731 $716  
• Disabled worker, spouse and children  $LI98 $1.173  
• Disabled worker  $722 $707  

$494 $484 

• Supplemental Security Income, couple 
$741 $726 

during the 12 months that ended June 30 for all civilian employees, the Bureau of Labor Statistics says. 




Which Big Six firm not only relies on technology but also creates it? 
Visit us on the web at http://www.dttus.com 
...
~-: 

the answer 1• s 
·;.;:., 

@1997 Deloi tte &Touche LLP. Deloi tte &Touche refers to Deloi tte &Touche LLP and 

~ --~-_...,----------------_,----~~~-~ .... -~--~-""-··------.-----­

Everybody plays at the College Football Hall of Fame! Experience the excitement of an action-packed game, test your skills, or learn from legendary coaches. There's something for everyone at the College Football Hall of Fame! 
• 360° Stadium Theater • Training Center • Pigskin Pageantry • Hall of Champions Strategy Clinic • Bowl Games & National Championships • Great Moments 
PREVIEW THE BIG GAME AT THE HALL OF FAME! 
Sponsored by the Knights ofColumbus, Council 553 
Friday, October 17 8:30P.M. at the College Football Hall of Fame Press Box 
Guests Include: Notre Dame Greats Mike McCoy &Coach Wally Moore 
Guest Emcee: Pat Catanzarite 
Special Guest: David Haugh, Asst Sports Editor, South Bend Tribune 
USC Guest: Former USC Quarterback, Craig Fertig 
Football history, trivia, door prizes, and the latest information on Notre Dame and USC. Previews are held each Friday at 8:30P.M. preceding Notre Dame home games. Tickets are $5 each and include admission to the Hall ofFame. 
The world's most exciting and interactive sports Hall ofFame is just a FREE SHUTTLE ride away! 
Shuttle Hours & Schedule: Shuttle will run from 12 noon -8:30 P.M. (Friday Only!) 
Bus will pick up and drop offat the Main Circle east ofAlumni Hall 
on Notre Dame Ave. 
NamE DAME 
to 

12:00 NOON 
1:00 P.M. 2:00P.M. 3:00P.M. 4:00P.M. 5:00P.M. 6:00P.M. 7:00P.M. 

HAIL OF FAME 
To Notre Dame 
12:30 P.M. 
1:30 P.M. 2:30P.M. 3:30P.M. 4:30P.M. 5:30P.M. 6:30P.M. 7:30P.M. 8:30P.M. 


I .800.440.FAME 
( 1.800.440.3263) • http://collegefootball.org/ 
219.235.9999 
Founding Sponsors: 

.-------------~~----~-~-.. ---~------------------­
Friday, October 17, 1997 
The Observer • NATIONAL NEWS page 11 
Frozen eggs produce baby Disease-free old age not 


By TARA MEYER 
Associated Press Writer 
ATLANTA 

In what may be the first such case in the United States, a Georgia woman gave birth after being implanted with eggs that had been frozen. 
Up to now, U.S. doctors have been able to produce pregnan­cies from frozen embryos -that is, ~~ggs fertilized with sperm and tlwn frozen -but Pggs alone W()re considerPd too fragile to freez(). 
The latest feat, which has bPen achieved only sporadically else­where around the world, could giv() women some new repro­ductive options and sidestep some of the ethical objections to 
~i..fhi.·.~· .!ti;:i.................. .· .. 
test-tube fertilization. 
"This stretches the reproduc­tive field as far as you can envi­sion it right now," said Dr. Joe Massey, co-founder of Reproductive Biology Associates, the Atlanta clinic that accom­plished the feat. The same clinic in 1993 produced the first U.S. baby using sperm injected directly into a woman's egg. 
In 1986, a doctor in Australia was able to produce the first known births from frozen eggs. A year later, a team of German doctors also produced frozen­egg pregnancies. But until now, 
U.S. doctors have not been able to mimic the results, said Michael Tucker, scientific direc­tor of the Atlanta clinic. 
"This is an area in our field in 
·. ··J·.··. tt!M; NH; .:#. 
····~ · QJ Bing/]QIJJtO[J.~ ..J'N'Y; .. ~ ~~ Oct. i a·th::r ·.;r..m·~\riiN;)r•;:.,... /: 
~ ,.. ~ 
The Notre Dame Department of Music 
$6 General Admission 
$3 Student/ Senior Citizen 
Monday, October 27 Washington Hall 
8p.m. 
Tickets are 
available at the door, in advance 
at the which no one has been able to reliably achieve results over the past decade," said Dr. Anna Namnoum, director of in vitro fertilization at Emory University's Center for Reproductive Medicine. "This is a significant development." 

The 39-year-old woman came to the clinic almost a year ago suffering from premature ovari­an failure, which caused her to go through menopause early. 
She had tried in vitro fertiliza­tion, where eggs taken from a woman's ovaries are fertilized with sperm in the lab and the resulting embryo is implanted in the woman's uterus. But it didn't work because her husband's sperm were too weak. 
The clinic had been running a donor program for frozen eggs as part of its research since 1994. It successfully produced two earlier pregnancies using those eggs, but both ended in miscarriage. The clinic decided to use frozen eggs from a 29­year-old donor to try to help the 39-year-old woman. 
"We had the eggs sitting around and she was sort of backed into a hole," Tucker said. "All things considered, this was sort of an end-of-the-line option." 

impossible, studies say 
Hansel NeighborhoodService Center help people 

Join the United Way/Notre Dame team and pledge your support today 
By LAURAN NEERGAARD 
Associated Press Writer 
WASHINGTON 
Along with those first gray hairs may soon come a new tradition: a midlife medical checkup in which Americans could get a customized pre­scription for an old age free of disease. 
Don't expect a fountain of youth. But a new review of geriatric practice recom­mends that scientists refocus how they study and treat the rapidly aging U.S. population -because of new evidence that getting old doesn't have to mean getting sick. 
Friday's edition of the jour­nal Science hails this as "the new gerontology," and calls for the study of hormones that decrease with age and how lifestyle, not genes, may play the biggest role in life expectancy. 
"Many aspects of 'usual aging' can be avoided or reversed," Dr. John Rowe, president of the Mount Sinai Medical Center in New York, 


Help 

wrote in an editorial accom­panying the review. 
"The stage is set for major community-based interven­tion studies designed to enhance the likelihood of older persons not only to avoid disease and disability, but to truly age successful­
[ y." 
The U.S. National Institute on Aging already is starting such research. A five-year national study will test whether brain exercises can help healthy older people avoid Alzheimer's disease and stay mentally sharp overall. It's based on findings that people who have "active brains" at younger ages seem protected, a kind of "use it or lose it" prospect. 
"We now move into a realm where we make an effort to achieve optimal function for every person," explained NIA Deputy Director Terrie Wetle. "The exciting findings that are leading us down these paths have to do with our untangling the mysteries of normal aging." 


Hrut6e£ He.U.J~ 
Sewiee Cesdelt, IKe. 
Hansel Neighborhood Service Center­
offering day care, transportation services and emergency financial assistance 
page 12 The Observer· CAMPUS NEWS Friday, October 17, 1997 
players, everyone. We arc heading down to University of

Feature 
Virginia next week and I understand that is a beautiful

continued from page 1 
campus." that weekend. "We have been to South 
"We are working with Bend twice now for games. University Netcasting, which and I don't really consider it a hosts the athletic pages for 'stop' on the tour, because it most of these schools. such as is home," added Emkow, who Notre Dame, Michigan State, grew up in South Bend. "I Stanford, Purdue and others." didn't even know what state he added. "Because of this we Clemson was· in before we have inside access to the ath-went there, but when we got letic departments and football there I loved the place." teams at each school that we The site features a weekly go to." chat with the two writers as ware needed to bring the experience of a college foot­ball weekend to tho Internet. 
"Basically, we have all the oquipmcnt that we need," said Matt Thomson, who takes the pictures for the Web site. "I think it is telling that we have a scanner, but because of our digital cam­eras, we have not even taken it out of the box yet." 
Both described the program as a test-case. 
"People said that this couldn't be done," Emkow said. "Thny said that this kind 
They stop the RV in or --------------of insidn access to eaeh near the tailgating area of place couldn't happen. So 
the stadium at every game 'Wehave been to South if this goes well, the spon­and they set up their tent Bend twice now for sors may start it up againwith computers and a big next year. There has even television screen that games, and I don't really con-benn talk of doing some-broadcasts ESPN's College Sider it a "stop" on the tour, thing like this for tho GamePian show. NCAA basketball tourna­
"We were in the middle because it's home.' mcnt." of the tailgating at The "Hoad Warriors" Clemson," Emkow said. have visited the University "So we had a lot of people Bill Emkow of Kentucky. Florida State 
come by and send their kids over to watch the TV or well as any interesting people get on the Internet." on campus. This week Notre 
The two added that the Dame basketball forward Pat stops on their trip so far have Garrity joined the chat room. varied greatly, but that all "Our chats are not always have their high points. focused on football," Emkow 
"The best game so far was said. "We figured that, with Purdue vs. Notre Dame," said Midnight Madness coming up Thomson, who graduated this week it would be good to from Purdue. "But every place get him on here. Besides he is has its different aspects that an important ligure in college make them fun. sports." 
"The best so far has been As the mobile Web-produc-Clemson," he added. "When tion studio for the road trip, we went down there. every-the RV contains computers, a one was interested in what scanner, digital cameras, a we were doing -the football digital video camera and all beat writers, the coaches, the the other hardware and soft-
University, Clemson University, Ohio Stat.e University, Purdue University and Notre Dame. 
The next two weeks will rind them in Charlottnsville, Va., for Virginia vs. Florida State and East Lansing, Mich.. for Michigan State vs. Ohio State. 
The last three weeks of the season, mid-to late November. they will travel to 
Los  Angeles  for  USC  vs.  
Stanford; Tucson, Ariz..  for  
University  of Arizona  vs.  

California University; and back to Los Angeles for the USC vs. UCLA game. 
Questions? Comments.P Compliments (thank you!!). E-mail The Observer news department at Observer.obsnews.l@nd.edu 
Hey B Hap 
Voted: Area's Best Tanning Center Every Year 

r-------, r-------, 
I One Week I : Unlimited : or I Tanning I 
I I
1only $15.001 L-------.J 
University Commons 
by UP Mall 

272-7653 
110 TanningI 
I I  Bed  I I  
I I  Sessions  I I  

1only $35.001 
L-------.J Grape & McKinley 
near KMart 


256-9656 

To everything there is a season 

The Observer/Patnck Quigley 

After an unusually warm first half of the semester, leaves on the trees of the Notre Dame campus are beginning to change color. 
There will be a memorial mass for Stacy Marie Smith, Class of1997 on October 25th in the McGlinn Hall Chapel approxi1nately 1 hour after the end ofthe B.C. Game. 


Please join us in ren1embering her life and her love for Notre Dame. 
Charge by Phone at 235-9190 or 800-537-6415 Or Purchase at Morris Box Office, Method Music Elkhart, Disc Go Round Mishawaka, and Majerek's Hallmark Reader's World 


With love your twin, Spec. 4 Andrew Lanchsweerdt, U.S. Army 
page 13 

U.S. ports bar ships from Japan 
By MICHAEL WHITE Associated Press Writer 
LOS ANGELES 

The U.S. Maritime Commission's order to bar Japanese ships from U.S. ports could put Uncle Sam in the role of Scrooge to U.S. merchants stocking shelves for the Christmas shopping season. 
Ports along the West Coast are just wrapping up their Christmas rush, with hundreds of millions of dollars worth of Christmas goodies -from cam­eras and computers to stereos -still making its way across the Pacific. Should it last very long. the impact of a shipping embar­go would be felt by both retailers and consumers across the nation. 
"You have retailers getting their last-minute Christmas goods in. It could have an impact on all of us real quick," said Jack Kyser, chief economist for the Econqmic Development Corp. of Los Angeles County. "It could take a lot of joy out of the Christmas holidays." 
Of the $170 billion in trade passing each year in and out the ports of Los Angeles and Long Beach-the nation's busiest­$45.6 billion is heading for or coming in from Japan, said Kyser. 
The commission on Thursday ordered the Coast Guard to bar Japanese ships from entering 
U.S. ports and told the Customs Service to detain those already at berth. 
The Keough Institute of Irish Studies 
is delighted to announce its courses for Spring, 1998 
CLIR 102: CLIR 301: 
ENGL 4700:01 ENGL 4701:01 ENGL 577A:Ol 
ANTI-1460: 
LLR0551: 
HIST 317: 
HIST 327: 
HIST 495: 
G0Vf492: 
GOVf505: Beginning Irish ll The Irish in Their Own Words: 17th-18th Century 
Irish and Scottish Literature: 1780-1820 
W.B. Yeats and the Irish Literary Renaissance Anglo-Irish "Gothic" 
Urban Images: Dublin and Chicago 
Dialogues Across the Channel: French, English, and Irish Women Writers (17th-19th Century) 
Medicine, Literature and Culture in 18th and 19th Century Ireland Irish History II Ireland In The Age of Revolution 
Politics of Identity: Ireland 1800-1939 Northern Ireland/Comparative Perspective MWF 9:35-10:30 MWF 11:45-12:35 
MW 11:45-1:00 MW 3:00-4:15 MWF 10:40-11:30 
TH 3:30-4:45 
T2:00-4:30 
TH 12:30-1:45 
MWF 9:35-10:25 
MW 3:00-4:15 
MW 4:30-5:45 
MW 11:45-1:00 Peter McQuillan Peter McQuillan 

John Waters Gerald Bruns James Walton 
Kenneth Moore 
Julia Douthwaite 
James McGeachie 
Jim Smyth 
Jim Smyth 
Margaret O'Callaghan Margaret O'Callaghan 
(400-level and 500-level ENGL courses are "by permission" for non-majors) 
For Information about the Irish Studies Program please contact Department of English (1-7226) 356 O'Shaughnessy Hall 
or visit the Undergraduate Studies Office (1~8636) 101 O'Shaughnessy Hall 
r----~ ~~---~--­
·~~ ~-----~--~ ----~---~-----~ 
Friday, October 17, I 997 

Cashback 
Bonus" 
award* 

It could be y·ou ,1;; 

.· if you call ., . 
. 1-aoo IT PAvs~~ro. · and apply for a Discover® 
DIESEL........................................... . TOWER RECORDS........................ NORTHWEST AIRLINES.............. . THE SHARPER IMAGE................ . 

ToapPiy<>111i~,ao WVYW_Ii.U"'O<I\ 
©tW...,__TruoiCQm!)lllly, 
Friday, October 17, 1997 The Observer • NATIONAL NEWS page 15 


Lawmakers want FfC to stand by 'USA' label 
ByJOHN D. McCLAIN 
Associated Press Writer 
WASHINGTON 

Criticism from lawmakers and labor unions have turned back a plan to allow substan­tially foreign-made items to bear the label "Made in the USA." • 
The Federal Trade Commission was expected to kill its proposal to allow com­panies to use the label if "sub­stantially all" of a product was made from American parts or assembled by U.S. workers, according to a source who spoke on condition of anonymi­ty. 
That would have meant that products with as little as 75 percent American content would have been allowed to bear the label. 
The commission had argued that American factories needed such a designation in order to compete globally. But labor unions and some lawmakers opposed the proposed guide­lines, arguing they would encourage corporations to send jobs overseas. 
Under that pressure, the FTC was expected to retain the cur­rent requirement that forbids companies from using the "Made in USA" label if a prod­uct has more than a small amount of foreign content. 
Jodie Bernstein, director of the FTC's consumer protection bureau, was expected to rec­ommend to the full commission that the old "all or virtually all" standard be retained. said the source. 
But because the current stan­dard had been criticized as vague, Bernstein also will rec­ommend that the commission clarify the definition of the "Made in USA" phrase and require that products are the result of least 90 percent American parts and labor. 
That requirement was rec­ommended by the attorneys general of 16 states. 

Taking Applications for Fall '98 and January '98 


James Michener dies at 90 
By JUAN B. ELIZONDO Jr. 
Associated Press Writer 
AUSTIN, Texas 
James A. Michener, who guided millions of readers from the South Pacific to the fringes of space in giant, best-selling novels, died Thursday at his home of kidney failure. He was 90. 
Michener's death came less than a week after he ordered doctors to disconnect him from life-sustaining dialysis treat­ments. 
Harold Evans, president of Random House, which pub­lished several of Michener's books, called him "America's storyteller." 
"He took enormous delight in satisfying his own intrepid intellectual curiosity, and we are the richer for it," Evans said. "The world was his home, as he entitled his 1992 autobiography." 
Said Michener's longtime friend and assistant John Kinds: "His loss will be great not only the literary scene but to the many colleges he has nurtured through the years and the many thousands of people who feel he is their friend." 
Michener's heralded writing career, which spanned nearly 50 years, began in his mid-life, with "Tales of the South Pacific." The boo·k. written during his tour of duty with the Navy in World War II won the Pulitzer Prize in 1948 and was the basis for "South Pacific," a long-running Broadway musi­cal.and later a motion picture. 
Michener then spent decades wandering the globe, from Japan and Korea to Hungary, Hawaii, Afghanistan, Spain, South Africa, Colorado, Israel, Chesapeake Bay, Poland, Texas, Alaska and the Caribbean. 
He wrote historical-geo­graphic blockbusters, living in and absorbing the culture of the places of which he wrote. His books argued for universal ideals: religious and racial tol­erance, hard work and self-

Harold Evans president ofRandom House, about James Michener 
reliance. 
''I'm not a stylist," Michener said of his writing. "There are a whole lot of things I'm not good at. I'm not hard in dia­logue; I don't have that won­derful crispness. I don't think I'm good at psychology. But what I can do is put a good narrative together and hold the reader's interest." 
Every one of his books was a commercial success. The first printing of his 1985 novel, "Texas," was 750,000 copies; it eventually sold more than 1 million copies. 
He never quit working, say­ing "as long as the old brain keeps functioning, I know the desire will always be there. I can hardly wait to get up in the morning, to get back to work." 

He released his latest book, "A Century of Sonnets," earlier this year and reportedly was working on a book about his illness. 
Michener was born Feb. 3, 1907, in New York City, and was taken as an orphan to the Bucks County Poorhou·se in Doylestown, Pa. His name, James Albert Michener, came from his adoptive Quaker par­ents, Edwin and Mabel Michener. 
His childhood was spent in poverty, he recalled, "so that accounts for my social attitude -I'm a fiery liberal." 
"I've never felt in a position to reject anybody," he said in a 1972 interview. "I could be Jewish, part Negro, probably not Oriental, but almost any­thing else. This has loomed large in my thoughts." 
Michener followed "South Pacific" with "The Fires of Spring" in 1949. It was filled with autobiographical touches, telling of a poor Pennsylvania boy who becomes a writer. 
In "Voice of Asia" in 1951, Michener presented a variety of points of view gathered from interviews in Japan, India and other countries of the Orient. "The Bridges at Toko-ri" {1953) and "Sayonara" (1954) were based on the Korean war, and in 1955 Michener pro­duced "The Floating World," a history of Japanese prints. 
During the Hungarian revolt in 1956, Michener was in Austria where some 20,000 refugees crossed to the West. He assisted dozens to safety, writing about the experience in 1957's "The Bridge at Andau." 





Invite A Professor to 
Lunch. 
Starting October 27th ...... . 
Want to get to know your professor better? All you have to do is ask them! Professors will be given free meal tickets through their departments so that you can 

invite your professor to lunch or dinner. 
Student Academic Council Committiee 
Notre Dame Student Union 


r-'~-~-----------------------------------~-----· --~--------....... 
' 
' 
page 16 The Observer· SPECIAL AD SECTION Friday, October 17, 1997 
After the GaJJJe. • • 





PRIME RIB • STEAKS 
S~OOD•COCKTMLLOUNGE 

6402 North Grape Road 277-6368 
Call for Reservations 

Chinese ... American Restaurallt 
and C.oektail Lounl!e 
Authentic Szechuan, Mandarin 


•Lunches 
starting at .... $4.25 

•Dinners 
starting at .... $5.95 

•Banquet 
rooms available up to 200 Sunday Buffet-Every Sunday 


$8.95 for Adults $3.9 5 for Children 

Bar and Restaurant open 7 days a week 
(219} 272-7376 •130 Dixie Way N., South Bend• FAX 272-7425 (next to Howard, Johnson}_ • Call For Reservations 
This display was made possible by the combined efforts of Observer Marketing Managers, Greg Szilier and Jeremy Cazares, Ad Designers, Jenn Breslow, Brett Huelat, and Jon King, and the Advertising Department. Contact Greg or Jeremy at 631-6900 for more information_ 



From 9 pm to 10 pm 

@lFJEN

from Monday through Thursday 

Sun.-Thurs. 

(in October) the price of two large 
lOam-I am sandwichee iB the 

Fri.-Sat. 

same as the time 
10 am-3 am

you calL Small sandwiches, only 
Open later on

t2.79, or trab a 
Fri. & Sat. Nights!

large for only $4.99 Located conveniently in the CampUB Shops 


Friday, October 17, 1997 
The Observer • SPECIAL AD SECTION 
o Trivia  
o 7 ft TV Screens  
o Seating for  
Over 300  
o Extra Large  
Booths  
o Mouth Watering  
Variety of  
Sandwiches  
and Entrees  
52750 U.S. 33N.  
IBelween Cleveland &Danlen Rdl  
ISening Sl. Marl's!  
243·1122  

.:-;:·· 
-',;-. 
• 
Famous for our uunalo 12 Sauce Flavors 

• 
Great Sandwiches ·Salads 

• 
Buffalo Chips 



Grill & Pub and much moreL W.Washm~gton St. IDo1NJtt01Nn South Bend 1/2 Block West of College Football HaD of Fame 
Open Daily 20 TV's 2 Big Screens 
r --~ 7r:-r;--, r --l'-t;-~r-,,..,..,
1 '.r )\.1-"·..J,-u I I ··~· j_!t·;:) :;;; I 
I $5.00 I I $10.00 I 
I I I I
1 Dine In Only 1 1 Dine In Only 1 
._ _________.... ._ _____.... _.__ .... 
I
IExpires 12-31-97 obsmap 1 1Expires 12-31-97 obsmap 1 
I 
o 
Homemade &Breads 

o 
Appetizers 

o 
Salads 


o 
Sandwiches and PASTA 



After the game.. . After work ... . After all•• It's 
Two Post-Game Celebration Locations: Granger: 66 J5 N. Main Street 273·0003 Elkhart:· 324J Interchange Drive 266-J J 29 

-


r---------------------------~~------------------------~------------------------­




VIEWPOINT 
Americans not immune from atrocities of Tibetan plight 
page 18 
THE OBSERVER 
NoTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Norre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 
SAINT MARy's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1997-98 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief 
Brad Prendergast 

Managing Editor Business Manager 
Jamie Heisler Tom Roland 
Assistant Managing Editor 

Dan Cichalski News Editor ............................ Heather Cocks Advertising Manager.... . ....... Jed Peters Viewpoint Editor.... . .... Kellv Brooks Ad Design Manager ......, ............. Jennifer Breslow Sports Editor ............. Mike Day Production Manager ........................ Mark DeBoy Accent Editor .......................... joey Crawford Systems Manager ......................Michael Brouillet Saint Mary's Editor ....................... Lori Allen Controller... . . ............................... Kyle Carlin Photo Editor .... . ............. Katie Kroener 
The Observer is rhe independent newspaper published by rhe srudenrs of rhe University of Notre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. Ir does not necessarily reflecr the policies of the adminisrrarion of either insmunon. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Ediror-in-Chiet~ Managing Ediror, Assistant Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoim Ediror. Sports Editor. Accent Editor. Saint Mary's Editor, Pharo Editor, and Associate News Editor. Commemaries,lerrers and Inside Columns presem the views of rhe aurhors, and nor neces­sarily those ofThe Observer. Viewpoint space is available ro all members of rhe Norre Dame/Saint Mary's communi£)' and to all readers. The free expression ofvarying opinions through lew~rs is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 
Editor-in-Chief Gj!-4542 Managing Editor 631-4541 News/Phoro 63I-5j23 SportS 631-4543 Accenr/Saim Marv's 631-4540 Day Editor/ViewPoint 631-5303 General Information 631-7471 
• ON THE POLLEN PATH 
Until the new movie "Seven Years in Tibet" came out last week, few Americans realized the atrocities com­mitted by China against the people of Tibet. In the movie, the young Dalai Lama, while watching black and white news reels from World War II, asks friend and mountaineer Heinrich Harrer {Brad Pitt), "Do you wonder if 

Kyle Smith 

someday people will look at Tibet on 
the movie screen and wonder what 
happened to us?" 
What has happened to Tibet? To begin, the Communist government of China, which has occupied Tibet for nearly 50 years, has virtually erased the identity of the Tibetan people and eliminated freedom of religion, free­dom of speech and freedom of the press. 
Predominantly Buddhists. Tibetans 
-
are some of the most peaceful people 
on earth: yet China, since its occupa­
tion of Tibet began, has abolished reli­
gious freedom and has punished those 
who maintain their traditional cultural 
ways. For those who assert their 
Tibetan heritage, the Chinese military 
has tortured, imprisoned and executed 
them. 
Unarmed Buddhist monks continuing to peacefully practice their religion have seen their monasteries burned and their spiritual leader, the Dalai Lama, exiled to India. China's eradica­tion of the Tibetan culture is so wide­spread that Tibetan universities have been shut down and the Tibetan lan­guage banned. And in the past few 
• 
Business OHice 631-53U Advertising 631-6900/8840 Svstems 631-88j9 Office Manager 6.11-7471 Fax 631-6927 Viewpoint E-Mail Viewpoint. I ((:Vnd.edu Ad E-Mail obscrver@darwin.cc.nd.edu 

years. China has been resettling its citi'­zens in Tibet and forcing abortion and sterilization amt>ngst Tibetans--mak­ing them almost a minority in their own country. 
As if it wasn't bad enough, the terror of the Chinese government does not stop with humans; the Communists have clear-cut acre upon acre of forests, dumped radioactive nuclear waste throughout Tibet and drained Tibet's most sacred lake, Yamdrok Tso, to construct a hydroelectric power plant for China. 
After all the horrific acts committed against them by the Chinese govern­ment, the Dalai Lama and many other Tibetan Buddhists still harbor no ani­mosity toward China. 
The Dalai Lama once said, "We [Tibetans) must embrace our enemy, because with two arms wrapped around them, they cannot point a gun at us." The Dalai Lama has even said that he and other Tibetans could live under Chinese rule if only Tibet could be reestablished as a demilitarized zone of Ahimsa {non-violence), yet the Chinese government, along with the governments of other nations, has turned a deaf ear to the plight of Tibet. 
What has the world, namely the U.S., done to help Tibet? Virtually nothing. Instead of taking a pro-active role toward peace and democracy in the post-Cold War world, the U.S. has placed political and economic interests ahead of human rights and the envi­ronment by once again granting China most-favored nation trading status. The Clinton administration went so far as to de-link human rights and trade-­in effect telling the world that the U.S. doesn't care how workers are treated as long as trade is not affected. As the Dalai Lama said, "Nothing in polities is a matter of honor." 
The World Parliamentarians Convention in Washington last April declared that there were no negotia­tions between China and Tibet, and 
Friday, October 17, 1997 


AIR Fan 50~ANNIVERSAR'f 
that the Dalai Lama's talks with President Clinton and Secretary of State Madeline Albright accomplished little. Public criticism of China, howov­cr, is kept quiet to prr.serve what Washington has dubbed the more important issues, namely tho r.eonomic relations between the U.S. and China. 
Still, the ill-conceived notion that U.S. economic involvement in China holps to 
'America and democracy 
exist because people wanted to be free from tyran­nical rule and free to worship as they pleased, yet now when fellow humans in Tibet are trying to exercise their right to peace and religious freedom, we turn our heads.' 
lower the amount of human rights vio­lations in Tibet and China pervades Washington politics. In fact, a 1995 study by the State Department itself concluded that human rights conditions actually become worse the morn the 
U.S. becomes economically involved in China. 
The U.S. has no strategic intorest in Tibet because of our economic interest in China. Prnsident Bush lauded the Gulf War as a victory of freedom and democracy over the tyranny of a ruth­less dictator, but what was our rna! motivation and strategic intorr.st in lib­m·ating Kuwait? Tho military and tho modia were instrumontal in persuading the American public that the U.S. actu­ally does care about people and freo­dom; I rocall, specifically, the CNN footage of thousands of Kuwaitis wav­ing littlo Amorican flags and thanking tho U.S. Marini)S for libomting Kuwait City. If there was oil in Lhasa, would we have seen those same images on CNN from Tibet'? 
China claims that its oppression of Tibet is occurring only because it seeks to uncover criminal activity. It com­pares the situation in Tibet to the gov­ernmental cmckdnwns in the U.S. on religious cults who carry out violent acts. The Chinese government, howev­er, overlooks one hugo differPncn: Buddhism advocates peace and com­passion, and thn Dalai Lama is a com­passionate and peaceful lcadnr, not a mnntal casn likn Marshall Applewhite or David Koresh. 
Two hundn)d years ago, our nation was founded on prindples of frPI~dom -namely frnedom from rnligious opprnssion. Massachus1~tts was a plaC!~ of refuge for the Puritans, Pennsylvania for the Quakers, Maryland for thn Catholics, and the list guns on. 
America and dnmocraey exist b1~cause people wanted to be frnn from tyrannical rule and free to worship as they plnased, ynt now when fellow humans in Tibet an) trying to exercise th1~ir right to pnaee and rnligious free­dom, we turn our !wads. GrPed, no IongN freedom, is at the top of our list. We invaded Iraq under the guis1~ of' democracy so as to save a nickel at tlw gas pump, yet we allow Tibet to blend so China can continue to produce ch(Htp, plastic toys. 
The Dalai Lama hoped that pnople would wonder what happennd to Tib1~t -I wondnr what happr.nnd to Amnrica. 
Kyle Smith is a sophomore f>L'i and philosophy major. 1/e can be rr>ached via e-mail at Smith.334@nd.edu. /lis column appears every other Friday. 
The 11iews expressed in this column are those of the author and are not necessarily those of The Observer . 
• DOONESBURY 
B,P., PIP YOl/KNCW 7HAT SA7lJRPAY IS 
NIKe APIAR£Ne!i5 

1/AYr YeAH... 
\ ""' 
• 
GARRY TRUDEAU 

~~ ~PIACKo61?a.JP IN !iEP:TTlE 7HAT!i lRYING70 50 tfiH(}j;; I OUNNO, (3fffPIAYE!R"3 70FeFlJ5e70 /QITHn? MAN­tfii?.AR 7J.Ie/R NIK& Gi54R. 
UJOK'3
\ 
PAINFUL.. 
~ 

• QuoTE OF THE DAY 
"Aculture is no better than its woods." 
-Wystan Hugh Auden 

------------------------~..------------r-----------~------------------------------------------~ 

VIEWPOINT ­
Friday, October 17, 1997 page 19 
• Posrctums FROM MEXICO 
'Football': The great 'American' pastime 
MEXICO CITY 

Anwrica, for some reason, is the only country in the world which insists upon referring to football as "football"and soccer as "soccer." In most other nations soccer. a game in whieh you spend 95 percent of the 
Bernadette Pampuch 

ganw kicking the ball around with your fePt. is aptly named "football," and AmPrican football. a game in which you usually just run around with the ball in your hands, is called "American foot­ball." 
My own dislike of organized sports aside. soerPr is infinitely more exciting than football for a variety of reasons. and I would like to propose that Notre Dame scrap its football team and replace it with soccer. 
First. soccer players take up signifi­cantly less space than football players. Tlw nntin• Mexican national team. for instance, can easily fit into a Saint Mary's shuttln bus: That means less transportation costs for Notre Dame. And I'm talking about both the physical size of players as well as their number. .Jorge Campos, star of the Mexican national league and a goal tender like no otlwr. stands just about as tall as me when I'm barefoot. And I'm a girl. The last Anwrican football player I dated used to do one-armed push-ups with me standing on his back. 
Second. soccer fans outnumber foot­ball fans worldwide. This means more revenue for Notre Dame as soon as we expand tlw stadium again. Just as an nxampiP. tlw Aztrc Stadium in Mexico City holds 120.000 fans. ranking second bPhind Brazil as the largest in the world. 
lmagirw: no morP scalping, no more 
• lETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
fights over who has priority for tickets (students or alumni), no more lack of seats. Of course. the nosebloed view is horrendous and the traffic even worso. But it's a small price to pay for America finally jumping on the global bandwag­on and joining England, Ireland, Mexico, Brazil and a few hundred other countries in an evnr-growing passion for soccer. 
Third, soccer players are more macho than football players. In football, if a player is injured, the game stops. Bruised knee? Half an hour extra on the clock. In soccer. a playnr can have a bleeding head wound and bn writing around in. agony on the grass, and the game goes on around him. No nxcuses. Soccer players are used to pain; soccer players don't wear helmnts. They kick, they dodge, they swivel. A football player would never think about using his head to stop an oncoming football. Real men wear shorts and knecsocks when they play sports. 
Fourth, soccer provides fans with a quick-pacf~d game that never slows down. Football fans complain that a game in which a winning score is 2-1 isn't really a game at all. but I would rather see two equally-matched soccer teams struggle valiantly to finally score a goal in 90 minutes of play and end up tied than two mediocre teams just bat a football back and forth for three hours and finish with a high score that doesn't really mean anything at all. Besides, scoring rules in soccer make much more sense. One goal equals one point. Period . 
Fifth, football is going tlw way of the dinosaur anyway. If you don't believe me, take a head count of the number of cousins, nieces, nephews, little brothers and sisters and young friends of the family that arc currently playing soc­cer. Political analysts like to say that one of the swing votes in the last presi­dential election came from the "soccer moms." the mothers of young, middle­class families responsible for driving the kids around to practice three times a week. Soccer camps have sprung up everywhere around the country, teams at high schools, junior highs and grade 



Take Time to Enjoy ND 

As a fairly recent alumnus of Notre Dame (Class of '96), I was fortunate to visit campus this weekend. I was glad to be here on a non-football weekend. which meant the atmosphere was normal and not frenzied with visitors. 
While I was visiting friends from dorm to dorm, however, I stopped myself. Not to gaze at the still-magnificent Dome or mammoth new dorms or ugly enclosure of the Jesus statue; I stopped because I was rushing myself. I realized that all around me, students were also rushing in every direction. 
At that precise moment. I saw what Notre Dame docs to a porson -it makes you feel pressured enough that each moment is consumed with stress and a need to rush. rush, rush. So to current students, I say save that for the real world. Enjoy what you have now which is an abundance of friends. bad-tasting beer. a glorious campus, and a lifetime of memo­ries in the making. 
Take tons of pictures, go to your dorm dances, stop complaining about tlw football team (Coach Davie will be hailed as a genius someday), sup­port our soccer and fencing team, and only walk fast if you are on your way to the Dining IIall for a two-hour meal. Life is good-enjoy it. 
Alex Montoya Class of 1 996 San Diego 

schools abound, and it is quickly becoming the fastest-growing sport in the U.S. 
In a few years, most of these little rugrats will be coming to Notre Dame with more experience in bopping a ball off of their head than throwing it with their hands. It's easy to imagine the problems the football team will have if any of them find their way onto the field. 
Finally, the soccer experience really isn't all that different from football. Notre Dame shouldn't have any prob­lems adjusting if we start competing for the World Cup next year instead of a college football bowl. Both have strange mascots running around: little red-headed leprechaun with a goatee (Notre Dame). big fluffy-headed chicken that's supposed to be an eagle (Aguilas de Mexico). 
Crazy fans painting their chests with giant letters that spell out VIVA MEXI­CO, CABRONES! (Mexico) or LET'S GO ND! (Notre Dame) in a variety of proud colors. Weird traditions: The Lou chant at Notre Dame, tooting big plastic horns every three seconds in the Aztec Stadium. Odd game-day food: Eating bratwursts out of the trunk of the car at Notre Dame, eating bags of pre-popped microwave popcorn with lemon and chili pepper in Mexico. 

This only proves that while the cul­ture varies from place to place in the world, the passion for the sport, foot­ball or soccer, never really changes at all. 
Bernadette Pampuch, SMC '97, lives and studies in Mexico City. She can be reached at bpampuch@hotmail.com except on Thursday nights, when she is usually at a soccer game. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and are not nec­essarily those ofThe Observer . 
Jones R~~pt{~ft Rewarded 
'.Jt:=;::,.;::.,. ·.:·.:~;=:~·:···-=·:<:· 


Student \fo:lunteers 
First of all, I'd like · tunity to thank any · helped plan and Jones lecture, and The· lecture was enjoyed by hours ners, plan:ning .. tickets. I would··. much. ..·· .. . 
Secondly, I'd like to·adqf~Ss some of the recent letters subn1ttted to The Observer. Apparently,<tllerti was some confusion as to how the guest list· of the reception was formed. 
I would like to clear up that confusion so that those who felt that the list was unjust can understand what they rhay do in the future to be a guest ofthe recep­
tion. .'·/~, 
Unfortunately, SUB ha~ia limited bud· get. Because of this; WE) ·are fob:~d to limit the amount ofmoney we can spend on a reception. This translates to a limit on the number of guests. For the James Earl Jones lecture, we were limited to 50 guests including Mr. Jones' 
ln establishing criteria for the 'guest list, one must surely concedethat those who helped in the lecture's organization should be considered first. This totaled nearly 50. A lecture of this magnitude . consists of a large group of people plan­ning and performing many t;;tsks that •people would not even think need 
· done. The majority of the invita­all slated to those people who 
the issue of why faculty were 
. I can respond by saying that 
was planned by students, for 
· It was put on using student 
and therefore, we believe 
ts' interests should be first 
foremost). considered. 
Furthermore, l would like to convey that SUB was deeply hurt by these alle­gations. This event was solely intended to he fun, it was not intended to turn into an issue of race. Mr. Jones expressed his reason for being here was to he an enter­tainer, not a spokesperson. SUB's main goal is to provide fun and entertainment for all students. 
Finally, I would like to mention that .StJB is always accepting of new mem­bers~ We encourage people to sign up at 
anytime in the year, no matter if one is "in the loop" or not. Anyone interested in joining SUB may stop by 201 LaFortune. Jbope that I have cleared up any misun­derstandings. 
Brian Churney Programmer Ideas and Issues Student Union Board 

-
page 20 VIEWPOINT Friday, October 17, 1997 
• CAPITOL COMMENTS 
Offensive behavior is only in the eye of the beholder 
• lETTER TO THE EDITOR 
A ReiDembran·ce of Denver's Life and Love 
After hearing the news of John Denver's death, please allow an admirer to digress on newfound revelations. 
In recent years. people have tended to look over people like John Denver, seeing them as hippies, or lost romantics. For all practical purposes, this is true. But let's take a closer look. One of the things I admire most of John Denver when I listen to his songs is his complete vulnerability in his love of life. It is so obvious. His words, his voice, his style all reflect an unashamed love, and in that love he reaches the freedom and peace that God meant for us to have. This may sound fairly radical and excessive, but look at it from your own life. Isn't it the one goal of life to say you actually lived and made the most of your time here? John Denver reached this goal in his life-as he said. who he is is in his songs. I am the type of person who tends to ask why on Earth anyone would want to be so vulnerable? There's nothing so ridiculous as being completely honest and opening oneself to the world. And then it dawned on me. It is the only way to become a complete person. Self­protection is merely fear and pride, a stopper .to growth. 
Today. we tend to roll our eyes at ideals like this, but if we could be com­pletely honest with ourselves for one instant, we would see that those who live their lives as John Denver did are making the most of their time. This does not mean they have a perfect life or do not make mistakes, but that they are not afraid to live. It is a tossing away of pride and opening oneself up, in spite of the vulnerability, to live. 
To continue this train of thought a moment longer brings me to the thought of heaven. If life is lived as was by John Denver and those like him, I believe we will see our passing from this Earth as a continuation of love. It is a love of life that brings us to depart from this place. In excitement of life. we see heaven as the fulfillment of love. 
I will forever admire John Denver and his ability to truly live life. For those who know me. this is completely against ANYTIIING I have ever said about love, but it occurred to me while thinking of John Denver that in my pride, I am unable to appreciate this gift of life. The only way to truly appreciate it is to open myself to love and be loved, to hurt and be hurt by life. In this realization I decided if John Denver can dedicate his whole life to making others aware of ideals like this, it is the least I can do to risk a lit­tle and write this. It is a step in opening myself, regardless of what anyone thinks as they read this now. 
Our time is here and now. let us soak in life, let it "fill up our sr-nsr-s" and in this, give back everything we can in the time we are here. 
Molly Noem Saint Mary's College 
Voices of 'Right Reason'? 
Right Reason has published a litany of woeful blasphemies. 
"First five copies FREE. Each subsequent copy one dollar." Pusher. 30 pieces of silver have decreased in value. 
There is no response. "God"? In your Idol? Idolater of true gods. 
"[P)riests will take God out of the shelter of the tabernacle and expose Him so that the faithful can see and converse with Him." Scaled eyes. No. God is at the brothel in Thailand; he shows him­self to those in the AIDS clinics; the cancer wards; he whispers to the little ones in the hospitals. lie has recently been spotted weeping over the dead children and their moth­ers in Algeria. 
"God has given bishops of the Catholic Church the ability to sum­mon Him to their presence." God is not your bishop's bellhop. God rushes to the cries for justice of the sodomized altar boys and the sexu­ally abused children in their care. They cry for the Almighty to bear his mighty arm in vengeance. 

Millstones tied around the neck. Shame. 
"Male homosexuality can be cured." Heretical physicians who make men's 
minds sick; those who cannot heal themselves. Your sepulcher needs more 
white-wash. 

"Whether you know it or not, you are searching for God." God is already present. Blind to the stranger in your midst. The beam. Who is my neigh­bor? "Right Reason: Where Charity and Love Prevail." Woe to those who call evil 
-
good. 
G.E. Dann 
Faculte de theologie Universite de Strasbourg, France 
Let's face it. Despite all of the outcries from Irish Catholics who attended the Notre Dame football gamn at Stanford, the most offnnsive and obnoxious band in tho country is not from Stanford. It is the band of the University of Southorn California. 



Gary Caruso 
The incessant "da, da. da, da, da-da, da. da. da. da-da, da, da da. da, da" it will softly play throughout evnry waking moment of tomorrow's football game rivals only Florida State's tomahawk and "Indian" chant for the irritation of the year award. Nobody horn knows the purpose of the "da. das" song, and prob­ably would not care to undnrstand any­way. Everybody tires of it as quickly as one tires of the cry of a baby. 
The only logical conclusion those of us not affiliated with USC could make is that the "da, das" song is a tool utiliznd to intimidate and agitate the opposition. Its sole purpose can only be to neutralizn any advantage the home linld or a supn­rior opposing team might have over USC. If not, then could the USC contingrmt be mere self-righteous snobs showing otT, their "da, das" song? 
Hegardless of how fans react to the USC band's annoying "da, das," few will probably object as vociferously as Irish Catholics did over the Stanford band's prwf'ormance two weeks ago. Calling the Irish "stinking drunks," the announcer bngan a parody of the potato famine fea­turing "Seamus O'llungry" whose "sparse cultural heritage consisted only of lighting, then starving." 
The Stanford performance included a mock debate between the devil and a Catholic "Cardinal," a pun on the univer­sity's mascot, the color cardinal. It seems funny to me that the "Cardinal" was actually defending good against the devil. Sounds like something that would compete with Harvard's annual funny Lampoon Pudding whatever the hell (oops, I've fallen to the devil) the award is they present each year to a major celebrity. 
As a reaction to the performance, over­ly sensitive Irish Catholics with no sense of humor have demanded that Stanford University officials plaee sanctions upon the band members. Stanford, not being a religious-affiliated institution with a sense of moral self-righteousness, refus­es. Its officers see the antics as possibly in poor taste. but not outrageously offen­sive. The hope of them ever taking action against the band probably has as much chanee as Notre Dame officers om­dally recognizing a gay student organiza­tion on campus. The wrath of Hell does powerfully persuade some clergy mem­bers. 
The only time in my recollection that the Stanford band did receive a sanction for its actions happened several years ago. The band members, marching in boxer shorts, took their curtain call by dropping trousers and mooning the stadi­um audience. Granted, they exposed themselves which borders on breaking local laws regarding indecency. But then again, so do all those fans who tomorrow will flaunt their open bner cans as they parade around the campus. 
What actions cross the line of decency and respect? How can we judge whose sense of humor is unacceptable? When does sophomoric humor become vieious and vulgar'? That debate could sound as familiar as the isswes raised last summer when the Supreme Court struck down the attempt by Congress to sensor material on the Internet. 
How many movies, usually portraying a coming-of-age theme, show young per­sons mooning someone? Television com­edy on such shows as "Saturday Night Live," "Mad TV" and "In Living Color" are continually making fun of African Americans. We didn't hear mueh from their eommunity leadnrs when Eddie Murphy was one of the first to push his comndy to the ndge ynars ago ... during a more sensitive time in our s01~iety. 
Somn in this country, including Irish Catholics and fundamentalist Christians, need to lighten up a bit and "get a clue and get over it." Too many super serious pnople takn too many incidents too liter­ally, overrnaeting to minor situations likn an atomic bomb on an ant hill. They nend to let suf.h obnoxious things like the USC band's "da. das" song roll niT thPir backs. Or better ynt, thny nnnd to nxnrt their humor against the agitators. 
As llallowerm approaches, many homes in this country will be egged and covnrnd with toilet paper. Thosn owners will undoubtedly be upset, but I'm surP they will not put razor blades in tlwir candy nnxt ynar. Our supPr sPnsitivn Irish Catholics nnnd to take the incidnnt for what it was, not for what thev want to make it. In thn easn of the USC band. I suggest we stuff rolls of toilet paper in every instrument we can bdore tlw gamP and muflln their "da. das" attempts. 
Heeently, I was walking in Washington. D.C., when I passed an African Anwrican woman with lwr son and ovnrhnard part of their conversation. The bov could not havn been morn than night y1:ars old. lin obviously had eomplaincd about sonworw calling him or his race a namn. 
As wr~ passed, hnrn is what I !ward his mother say, "Don't you never mind what anyone says. You ain't nothing. Look what they did to Jesus. You remember, we ain't nothing. and ignore thrm." 
. Pownrful advice from an inrwr-rity woman who obviously attnnds church and is trying to properly couns1~l hnr son. ller son's environmont is far morn dra­matieally at risk than the surroundings of a Catholie high school principal's who wrotn the Stanford Univnrsity president to complain about its band's (JPrfor­mancn. Of course, tho principal does makn one slightly rel1want point in his complaint ... he paid for admission to wit­ness the band's sp!~etad!). It is amazing that this onn, paid-for incident has not seriously alTncted more fans in the stadi­um that day, espeeially compared to that inner-city youth who probably faces thousands of more ineidnnts nach year ... and for frne. 
Tomorrow, 'when the myriad "da. das" inundat1~ us from USC's sideline to the point of wanting to walk down and throw up on tho band, remember what one of my Notrn Damn classmates had to say this wnek. lie is another of thn disgusted and frustratnd alumni who have had a miserable time this football season. lin had livnd in southern California for many years when USC had a string of wins over Notre Dame, thus making his pnrsonal life as a fan miserable. 
While discussing the Stanford band's antics versus the USC band's "da, das," my classmate got somewhat philosophi­caL "Hell," he said, "I can imagine the heart attack that holy roller prineipal might have had if the Stanford band had mooned us. Maybe Notre Dame should apply for a grant from the National Endowmnnt for the Arts and arrange for its band to moon USC next year in an 'artistic' display at the Colisnum. That might make Jesse Helms happy." 
Maybe, just maybe. At least it would 
makn me laugh. 
Gary J. Caruso. Notre Dame '73. worked at the U.S. 1/ouse of Representatives for 18 years andfor the International Union ofElectronics Workers (IUE) in Washington, D.C. 1/is column appears every other Friday and his Internet address is dchottline@hot­mail.com. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and are not necessar­ily those of The Observer. 
-----------~------, 
------------------------------~-­
-~• T;l~:!~--~ 
I 
;-f.:#~~~:-~ 
-
i.·. 
•· 
I

Friday, October 17, 1997 page 211 


Joseph and his AJDazing Teeh.*t~lieoJo,r DreaJDeoat hit Notre DaJDe with a sto-rJD of color 
By JOSEPH WEILER 
Assistant Accent Editor 
asquerilla East breaks out the the steel drums and golden chariots this 
weekend for the triumphant return musical theater to Notre Dame. It has 
been ten years since Washington Hall has been exposed to this much singing and dancing and Andrew Lloyd Weber and Tim Rice's "Joseph and the Amazing Technicolor Dreamcoat" brings broadway back with a vengeance. 
Director Kelly McGann, a sophomore from P.E., brings an interesting combina­tion of professionalism and fun to this rendition of one of the world's most popular musicals. The audience is never quite sure what it's going to get. While cast mem­bers bound onto the stage in wonderfully ornate costumes suited perfectly for sto­rytelling, at the same time they are placed in a very simple set with few details, leaving the onlookers the responsibility of filling the scenery. 
While the voices of Merideth Watt (Narrator) and Jeff Cloninge (Joseph) are both outstanding, they are supported surprisingly well by a large cast which includes a choir of small children at least 60 strong -a difficult crew to work with for even the most experienced professional. For the most part they serve mostly as cute scenery. but McGann uses them well at certain to make "Joseph" an entirely amusing and enter­taining event. 
This is P.E.'s first attempt to break into the ranks of the vari­ous legitimate theater groups around campus and the whole company brings both the quality and pizzazz that should make this production a success. 
Shows run this weekend, Thursday, Friday and Saturday at 7:30 pm and will be held in Washington Hall. Tickets can be purchased at the LaFortune box office. 

Cast members of "Joseph" hold the audience captive. 

' 

"-~MARION MORRISON, (A.KA. JOHN AYNE) -ACTOR fi: ORENTHAL J. SIMPSON -ACTOR MARKMCGWIRE-MLB SLUGGER JUNIOR SIEU-NFL HITMAN LISA LESLIE -WNBA SUPERSTAR 
THE FIGHT SONG 
11FIGHT ONn 
FIGHT ON FOR OL1 SC, OUR TEAMS FIGHT ON TO VICTORY. OURALMA MATER DEAR LOOKS UP TO YOU, FIGHT ON AND WIN FOROL1 SC FIGHT ON TO VICTORY FIGHT ON! 
l 


THE SHILLELAGH
j 
I 

jThe shillelagh is a jeweled Gaelic war club jmade of oak from Ireland which goes to jthe winner of each NO/USC game. Oak is jused because it's the only wood strong jenough to crack an Irish skull. For each 
...

!NO victory an emerald with a shamrock is jplaced on it while a Trojan head is added ifor each USC victory. · The current count jis 39 shamrocks to 24 heads and 5 golden jmedallions representing a tie. 
page 22 The Observer • SPORTS Friday, October 17, 1997
-
• BASKETBALL 

Jordan injures toe, worries Jackson 
By STEPHEN WADE Associated Press Writer 
PARIS 

Michael Jordan has a sore toe, and the Chicago Bulls are already missing Scottie Pippen and Dennis Rodman. Could a stumble be coming in the McDonald's Championship? 
Jordan cut his practice time in half Thursday as the Bulls prepared for their opener Friday in this six-team interna­tional championship, and Bulls coach Phil Jackson sounded worried. 
"He had one toe bothering him (Monday) and now the other toe is bothering him," Jackson said. "It hurts him and he can't jump. We have a big concern about it, but that's a minor problem. Hopefully by tomorrow (Friday), he'll be bet­ter." 
Jackson then slapped on his game face. This may be a pre· season tournament, but the NBA is 14-0 in seven previous events and Jackson doesn't want a blemish. 
Would he rest Jordan? 
"Not if it threatens winning/' Jackson said. "I don't think it's anything about saving face. I think it's that the NBA has something they have to uphold. lt is a status we have to uphold." 
No mistaking how big this biennial showdown has become between the NBA and five of the world's best clubs laden with American and international talent. 
More than 1.000 reporters and photographers have been accredited, more than for the NBA finals -and 40 percent more than six years ago when Magic Johnson and the Los Angeles Lakers played in Paris' Bercy Sports Palace. 
"I want to win, whatever it takes to win," Jordan said. 
• MAJOR lEAGUE BASEBAll 

Orioles plan to build on season 
By DAVID GINSBURG 
Associated Press Writer 
BALTIMOHE 
There was a different mood in tho Baltimore Orioles' dub­house this year as they deared out their lockers after losing the AL championship series. 
A year ago, immediately after the Orioles were Hliminahed from the ALCS in live games by the New York Yanknes, general manager Pat Gillick talked about tearing apart a team that depended too heavily on the long ball. 
It was an open concession that the Yankees were the bet­ter team and that Baltimore couldn't win the AL East with­out making significant changes. 
This year's Orioles didn't get any farther in the playoffs, suc­cumbing in six games to the Cleveland Indians in the second round. The difference is, Baltimore heads into this off­season with the firm beli!lf that no heavy maintenance will be required to prepare for 1998. 
"In my heart I feol we're the best team," assistant general manager Kfvin Malone said. "No matter how good you arc, you have to got breaks, you have to got lueky, you have to execute." 
The Orioles accomplishod quite a bit this season. winning more gamos than any team in the league in becoming only the third team in AL history to rnmain in first plaen for the entire season. Thny also claimed thoir first division llag since 1983. 
They then beat Seattlo acn Handy Johnson twice in dump­ing Scaitle from the playoffs before dropping four one-run games to the Indians. 
"I think the Yankees took care or us a lot easier last year," center fielder Brady Anderson said. "It wasn't that dose. Our team is dearly better than last year; we could have won every single game." 
And so the Orioles fell short of their ultimate goal: roaching the World Series. That disap­pointment, however, didn't detract from what had been accomplished beforehand. 
"The fact of the matter is we had a tremendous year," Cal Hipken said. "We went wire-to­wire. We won 98 games. It makes you feel really good whon you set out in spring training to play good baseball then you have the kind of year that we had. So we're kind of celebrating that." 
The season included one of the more uplifting sagas in team history, the roturn in September of Eric Davis just three months removed from colon cancor surgery. llis plight made everyone on the team realize that winning the pen­nant is not life or death 
"l have a renewed sense of what life is all about when I look at Erie Davis," Hipken said. "There were a lot of inspiring things to come out of Mr. Davis' locker." 
Hipken had a discussion with manager Davey Johnson in the wake of Wednesday's finale, a 1-0 defeat in 11 innings. The chat had nothing to do with the third baseman's consecutive games streak, which reached 2,478 but became a distraction latP in the season beeausP of his ailing back. 
"I told him that we had some­thing to build on when we get to spring training next year," Hipken said. "The expectation will be a little higher again." 

The Observer accepts classifleds every business day from Ra.m. to 3 p.m. at the Nom· Dame ollice, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 30<)· Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day clas­
sifleds is 3p.m. All classifleds must be prepaid. The charge is 3 cents per character per day, ir!Cluding all spaces. The Observer niserves the right to edit all classilleds I(H content without issuing refund,. 
Classifieds 
Ice skates for kids: girl 7 & boy 9  CONDO FOR SALE! PERFECT  I need three GA's for USC (in a row  2 G.A.tickets For Sale USC. Navy.  i hate gradiants. they do everything  
NOTICES  .I  years old. (21 9) 254 9841  CONDITION ALL NEUTRAL HIGH CEILINGS SKYLIGHTS FIRE· PLACE 2 BRS. ALL APPLIANCES  or as close as possible). Call Brian @ 4·2872  W. Virg. Jeremy: 612-427-3444  except make sense. why does he kick the plugs? did i  
BASEMENT AND GARAGE! CALL  Friends coming in for USC  2 BC GA'S NEEDED  hurt you in someway. i didn't do  
SANDY 235·3561 IMMEDIATE  Need GAs!!  call Jen @ X 0849  anything. i know what i'm talking  
POSSESSION!  Preferred student transfered  about lane. i"ve been at this high·  
call  4·3447  I need 2 USC GAs.  school for seven and a half years.  
On Simonton Lake, home,  Call X3880  i'm no dummy.  
central air, heated garage, 40' pier.  2 USC GA's for sale  
(21 9)262-2699  287·3181 after 7 pm  You know you want 'em!  LONDON PROGRAM  
Rooms available in private home for  BC GA's · call4-1471 (B/0)  
GREAT RESUMES! Only 4 mi.  Football and Jr. Parents  SPACIOUS CONDOMINIUM  Two G.A. B.C. Tixs for sale.  APPLICATIONS  
from NO campus on U.S. 31/33.  Weekend's. Located less than 2  WALK TO CAMPUS  Best offer. Call703-812-8759.  BC stud GA $55 Call 44465  
Call (616)684-4633.  miles from campus, contin. brkfst.  Garage, poo!, AJC, hardwood  are due  
included. Call Kim at 277-8340.  floors. ceramic tile, much more!!l  DESPERATE!!  Need 2-4 tickets for Navy  no later than  
ILOST & FOUND I  ROOMS IN PRIVATE HOME FOR  Just One Year Old!! See it·-http://www.nd.edu/  Need 4 BC Tickets Will Pay Top$  Call Vince 4-1690  5:00PM Friday. Oct. 17  
FOOTBALL WEEKENDS AND  -tmandeiVcondo.html  Call Dave@  FOR SALE:  
would appreciate anyone who finds  OTHER ND-SMC EVENTS.  Call (219) 289-8914  (815)479·0586  Yo quiero Taco Bell or Ron Fiesta­ 
keys to room 308 to call x1862  VERY CLOSE TO CAMPUS • 5  TWO Navy GAs  Happy week!'  
If you find the little grit who stole them, you can also call x1862  MIN. DRIVE OR 15·20 MIN. WALK. 243·0658.  TICKETS  2 BC TKTS · LL · $70/PAIR (800)201·4373  ONE W. VaGA Call Colby @ 4·4903  The Chop has been stopped.  
Braves suck.  
blue bookbag lost in bookstore  THAT PRETTY PLACE, Bed and  I NEED GA TIXS ALL NO  USC & BC stud tix avail (face)  2 Tix for all games  
on 10/1. if found call steve at x- Breakfast Inn has space available  HOME GAMES.272·6551  &Two BC Ga's. Steve 4-2795  (219) 254 9841  Save some whiskey-Tennessee  
2070. REWARD OFFERED!!  for football/parent wknds. 5 Rooms  here we come.  
with private baths, $70·$90,  Need BC GA's. Grandparents are  NOTRE DAME  2 pair USC and  
LOST-: key ring with TAZ key  Middlebury, 30 miles from campus.  coming in and will pay good money!  FOOTBALL TICKETS  1 pair BC 4 sale  Nerd. we DO love you.  
chain. last seen on lakeside of  Toll Road. Exit #107.  Call Frank, 4·2340.  BUY • SELL · TRADE  271-6005  
Bond Hall. please call Mike at  1-800·418-9487.  Joe Montana is the greatest quar­ 
X3528  2 BC GA's for sale  232·0058  Two USC GA's for sale!  terback the NFL has ever seen. Hi  
Orchard Cottage B&B 15 min. from  (757)671·1649  Section 11 0; $50 ea.  Joe!  
FOUND: keys, thurs nite @ senior  campus. bd room, LR, bath  CONFIDENTIAL  Call 634-1 926  
bar or coaches  & kitchen. sleeps 4. continenetal  Call Peter  TICKET-MART, INC.  Beware the DONKEY PUNCH!!'  
call ann 273-9942 breakfast included. last min. can· ....------------, cellation for USC Oct 18 &WANTED I BC Oct 25 games. call 288-3923  634·1579 USC stud tix $30  BUY/SELL NO SEASON AND INDI­VIDUAL GAME TICKETS.  Grad Stud tix booklet for Sale Best offer. 634-4516  Chiquita. Here's your ad.  
LG-ol-d!-!-W-a-nt_e_d-re-p-s.-,u-n-lim-i-te_d_..J  I  FOR SALE  287-9998 I need USC GAs!!!!'  674-7645. NO FOOTBALL TICKETS  PERSONAL  HEY ­Did anyone read Viewpoint tonight? Just wondering. I couldn't  
earning potential!!  Call Mandy at 243·4783.  FOR SALE  ADOPTION · LOOK NO FURTHER  tell.  
616-461-6772.  Clean House near campus!  DAYTIME#: 232·2378  A newspaper ad led me to DEBBIE  
746 Marquette ave $98.500  I NEED 8 USC TIX  EVENING #: 288-2726  & MIKE 2 years ago & I chose them  ER .. ER... ER ... ER .  
Earn MONEY and FREE TRIPS!!  1 ,600 sq ft 3 bdrm. FM, 2 bath  312-951-5008  to adopt my baby. They're wonder­ 
Absolute Best SPRING BREAK  2car garage,a/c call 287·6868  NO TICKETS WANTED  ful parents and I couldn't be happier  Only a few more hours and I get to  
Packages available!! INDIVIDU­ 2 BC tickets for sale. $32 each  DAYTIME#: 232·2378  with my choice. I'm thrilled that they  go HOME!  
ALS. student ORGANIZATIONS, or  "4 HORSEMEN' NCAA FOOT·  Don (31 0)334-5837  EVENING#: 288-2726  want to adopt again! They're fun,  
small GROUPS wanted!! Call  BALL, ABSOLUTE MINT CONDI·  affectionate, professional, stable &  Allison. we miss you'  
INTER-CAMPUS PROGRAMS at  TION. AUTOGRAPHED BY THE 4  Two USC GA'S For SALE.  FOR  SALE  easy to talk to. I'll gladly talk with  But we are kicking butt on our own!  
1-800-327·6013 or  HORSEMEN. MAKE OFFERS TO  Call Brett at x3361.  you too. (888)690-BABY or check  
http://www.icpt.com  SEAN MOLLOY, 94 CROSS  N.D. G.A.'S  their web site at  Michiana Tattoo Emporium  
RIDGE. GREENVILLE. SC 29607.  MARRIED STD TKTS  WWW.MEETUS.COM  Wednesday night study break  
1-864-675-6222  271·7042  271-9412.  We love Sketch!  
MODELS/DANCERS WANTED  ARE YOU A VEGETARIAN?  
please call 21 9-271·0633  91 Saturn SL2, V.G. condition,  $45 For Sale  WANTED N D G A'S  We need to hear from you!  All systems go on the Death Star  
call:631-7629.  1 USC GA  TO ALL HOME GAMES  Join us for a focus group after  
Call Brian 243-5638  271 1526  fall break to voice your opinions to  I'm doing LAUNDRY!  
•••EARN FREE TRIPS & CASH ...  GOV'T FORECLOSED homes from  $45 For Sale  Notre Dame Food Services.  
CLASS TRAVEL needs students to  pennies on $1. Delinquent Tax.  2 stud tix for sale. all home games.  Call the marketing office at 631­ WSND squad: keepin" the faith from  
promote Spring Break 1998! Sell 15  Repo's. REO's. Your area. Toll Free  Need 1 BC GA  Ca114·3313  5589 for more information.  midnight 'til two on 88.9  
trips & travel free! Highly motivated  (1)800-218·9000 Ext. H-2013 fs.  
students can earn a free trip & over  273-3227  USC .. BOSTON.. NAVY  000 THE COPY SHOP 000  ER ... EA... ER ... ER ...  
$10,000! Choose Cancun,  SEIZED CARS from $175.  W.VA.GAs FOR SALE 272·7233  LaFortune Student Center  
Bahamas, Mazatlan, Jamaica or  Porsches, Cadillacs, Chevys,  GA's for sale at cost: 4 Navy  " High-Speed Copies  It's not nice to mock deaf people.  
Florida! North America's largest stu·  BMW's, Corvettes. Also Jeeps,  and 4 WV call Jill 3850  GARTH BROOKS  " Canon Color Laser Copies  
dent tour operator! Call Now! 1-800­ 4WD's. Your area. Toll Free 1-800·  IN  CHICAGO  272-7233...  " Digital Color Printrng  We're definitely cooler than Barbie.  
838-6411  218-9000 Ext. 2013 for current list·  " Binding & Laminating  
ings.  FOR SALE  vPublic Fax Service 631·FAX1  Hi mom.  
2 USC GA's  FOR SALE:  Phone 631-COPY  
""Spring Break..."Take 2"••  SAVE YOUR PARENTS/YOUR­ 289-4384  NO vs. USC Tickets  It wasn't too painful. was it?  
Hiring Reps' Sell 15 .. Take 2 Free.  SELF MONEY!  MEL  273·3911  i am way too tired to be here.  i am  
Hot destinations! Free Parties,  131 minutes of long distance calls  lv msg  not her, i am on a beach some­ ER better have taped, Kate ...  
Eats. Drinks. SunSplash 1-800-426­ for only $25! Rate is lower than call- where  Or else ...  
771 O/www.sunsplashtours.com  ing cards, collect calls & 800 ser- BC TIX For Sale (Best Offer)  i'm drinking pin a colatas "hello  
vice. 277-3318  Married stud tix sale 273·1997  288·3975  honey"  Ow.  

~------~· ~ -----~-­
Friday, October 17, 1997 The Observer • SPORTS page 23 
-

• MAJOR lEAGUE BASEBALl 
Hernandez pitches his way into his 'wildest drean1s' 
By STEVEN WINE 
Associated Press Writer 
MIAMI 

Growing up in Cuba, just 300 miles from Miami, Livan Hernandez managed to get his hands on videotapes of the 1992 and '93 World Series. 
But watching a World Series game live on TV? Or listening on the radio? No way. 
"I've never seen one," Hernandez said Thursday. "Not even dreaming." 
That will change Saturday, whPn Hernandez looks in at his catchP-r, winds up and throws the first pitch of GamP 1. In a s<:P-nario litP-rally beyond his wildest dreams, the 22-year-old rookie will start for the Florida Marlins against the Cleveland Indians. 
His family and friends in Cuba may not be able to watch, but much of the rest of the world will. Even the president is talking about the Marlins. 
"I want to congratulate those in Miami because their baseball team is going to be in the World Series," President Clinton said Thursday during his tour of South America. 
In Miami, the bandwagon is overflowing. Their new hero is Hernandez, the MVP in the National League championship series. He caused such a comma­tion walking into a Little Havana restaurant Wednesday that it took him four hours to eat lunch. 
"I love all the fans," Hernandez said. "I hope they fill the stadium and yell a lot." 
Hernandez will be opposed by Cleveland's 39-year-old Ore! Hershiser, who started -and lost -the first game in Marlins' history in April 1993, when he pitched for the Los Angeles Dodgers. 
Five seasons later, the Marlins are in the postseason for the first time, and they're thriving. The NL's wild-card team went 7-2 in the first two rounds and reached the World Series by surprising two-time defending NL champi­on Atlanta. 
Cleveland, seeking its first world championship since 1948, is also regarded as an upstart despite winning its second American League title in three years. The Indians beat Baltimore in the AL champi­onship series thanks to four one­run victories. 
"Whether anybody believes it or not, the best two teams are here," Marlins manager Jim Leyland said. "Neither team fluked into this thing. Both teams did what they had to do." 
''I'll have to get a feel for the umpire," Hernandez said through an interpreter. ''I'm going to work the corners and change up my pitches like I did against Atlanta." 

Hernandez said he doesn't know where the city of Cleveland is, but he has faced the Indians. In 1996, his first professional season, he allowed them eight runs and 12 hits in 6 2-3 in con­secutive spring training ap­pearances that earned him a demotion to the minors. 
The Marlins blamed culture shock for that slow start. This year Hernandez quit eating Big Macs, dropped 20 pounds, won his first nine major league de­cisions and even learned a little English. 
He now knows how to say "World Series." 


*COME IN AFTER THE GAME* 
LADIES' AND MEN'S WORLD FAMOUS RAINWEAR, CLOTHING 
AND FURNISHINGS .. 
AT SAVINGS OF 
30 TO 60%
One coupon per party per visit at the Niles and Buchanan locations. Not valid with any other offer. Expires 12/31/97. 
---~--~---------~-­
page 24 The Observer • SPORTS Friday, October 17, 1997 
-• SAINT MARY's SOCCER 





Saint Mary's cruises to 8-0 shutout of Defiance 
By LYNETTE MALECKI 
Sports Writer 
The weather may have been frigid Tuesday afternoon, but the SMC soccer team was on fire as it crushed Defiance College, 8-0. 
The Belles were able to domi­nate ball control with the majority of the game taking place on Defiance's end of the field. During the first half Saint Mary's outshot Defiance 20-0. The Belles' defense only al­lowed one shot early in the sec­ond half. shutting down the Defiance offense. 
Junior fullback Katie Wagner led the Belles' attack. scoring the first goal of the game 10:35 into the first half off an assist from junior midfielder Monica Cernanec. Less than a minute later, Wagner scored again from several yards out. Assists were credited to Cernanec and sophomore midfielder Mary Woodka. Cernanec was also able to net her own goal at the 
14:05 mark. giving the Belles a
' 

IN 
Before MAACO... 

PAI~T SERVICE 
R 
3-0 lead at the end of the half. 
The Belles continued to domi­nate in the second half. out­shooting Defiance 18-1 and racking up five more unan­swered goals. 
"I was pleased with tho team's performance during the second half. We were able to work the ball well which gave us more shot opportunities," said head coach Bob Sharp. 
Senior tri-captain Debbie Diemer scored 3:15 into the second half, rolling it right by Defiance's goalkeeper. Woodka scored next, blasting the ball from elose range at the 8:20 mark. 
With the Belles up 5-0, Sharp made several changes in the lineup. Katie Wagner dropped back to play defense. while senior fullback Keary Sullivan was moved up. In addition, junior Mary K. Hoffman. who usually plays mid!ield, was sub­stituted for junior goalkeeper and tri-captain Jo Wagner. 
The remaining three goals for the Belles all came from senior tri-captain Eileen Newell, who tied the school record for the most goals seored in a single game. 

The Belles' dominance of the game Tuesday indicates the team's steady improvement, Sharp said. 
"We have a buneh of girls who want to win. We are improving with each game, and the team has continued to bond. The seniors remain the strength of the team," Sharp said. 
Still, Sharp does see room for improvement. 
"To win, we need to sustain a high level of intensity for the full 90 minutes. That is still what we are lacking. It's all a matter of mind set," said Sharp. 
It was a much-needed victory by thn Belles, bringing their record to 5-12-0. The win could give them confidence and momentum going into today's horne game against John Carroll at 3 p.m. 
"We'll take the win against Defiance, but Itoday! will be the real test." Sharp said. 

The Observer/Manuela Hernandez 

Saint Mary's will face St. John's today after a decisive victory Tuesday over Defiance College. 

Startrng At • • • • • • • • • • • • • • 
With over 25 yeors experience in outo pointing end bodyworks, MAACO is the notionolleader of quality automotive collision and point services. We have alarge variety of packoges to ensure a collision and paint service to lit every budget. 
SOUTH BEND 
250 East Sample Street 
234·1925 

_ .. 
................ 
1 
. . · ' • 9.:~
1 1ft.





$18'9 
·. -· 
•DENT 
STRAIGHTENING 

•RUST 
REPAIRS 

•PARTS 
REPLACEMENT 

•SKILLED 
BODYWORK TECHNICIANS 


Bodywork, rust repair and stripping of old paint extra. Vans. trucks and commercial vehicles by estimate. Additional surtace prepara~on may be necessary. Not valid with any other offer. MAACO Auto Painting & Bodyworks centers are independent franchises of MAACO Enterprises. Inc. Prices, hours and services may vary. 


Today's Message With Today's Music! 
+ 
One Excellent Hour in Length 

+ 
Casual Atmosphere 

+ 
Message: "Gifts!" by Rev. Bill Wassner 

+ 
Inspirational Blues & Jazz by Lazy Baby 

+ 
Contemporary Christian Music 


.. 
+ Drama Vignettes 
+ Communion Service Every WeEk 
Every Sunday at 11 :30 a.m. 
{So you can sleep in) 
First Christian Church of South Bend Corner of Eddy and Jefferson-Just Down the Street 
• 289-2417 + http://members.aol.comffirstccsb/fcc.htm 
XIS 
FRI., Ocr. 17 11:00pm 


Season TzckeTs 10 
Player of the Year Candidate: Pat Garrity 


Arn.pa~tes 


ND T-sbrn..Ts TO 
a~+as fiRST 1,000 Fans . t 1t FR.ee admzsszon ro aLL
Cont 1nen a1 ~) 
Express riJ ]o ce Cenren. 
~--~-~--------~ -~ ----~ 
page 25

Friday, October I 7, I 997 The Observer· PAID ADVERTISEMENT 
N 

T 

MES 

PUS 

The "Quivira" jacket by GEAR For Sports®... 
classic, relaxed clothes done simply right. 
G R 

T S 
® 

Monday -Friday 9am-7pm Saturday 9am-5pm, Sunday llam-5pm Phone:219-631-6316 Special hours football weekends: Friday 9am-7pm, Saturday 8am-7pm, Sunday 9am-5pm For catalog information calll-800-647-4641 
*Before or after the game, stop by one of 
our many locations conveniently located 
throughout the stadium and on campus. 
._ 



Big East  
Notre Dame  4~0  
Villanova  4-0  
Syracuse  3-1  
Seton Hall  2-2  
Connecticut  2-2  
Pittsburgh  2-2  
West Virginia  2-2  
Georgetown  2-2  
Providence  1-3  
Rutgers  1-3  
Boston CollegeT1\H!i  1-3  
St. John's  0-4  


Overall 
12~5 
14-5 15-6 13-9 13-10 
.==~~~:'= . .. ::j::~ 
9-7 
10-8 10-9 15-9 13-11 5-16 6-10 


Volleyball 
continued from page 32 
many players placing high in game statistics. 
Sophomore Mary Leffers leads the conference in block­ing with an average of 1.3 per game, while senior hitter Jaimie Len leads in hitting with 4.61 kills a game. Freshman setter Denise Boylan, who was named Big East rookie of the week recently, is second in assists, averaging 11.36 per game. 
The match will serve as a reunion of sorts for members of a prominent family in women's volleyball, as sisters Elaina and Kim Oden will compete against each other as assistant coaches at Notre Dame and North Carolina, respectively. 
The two sisters both were on the U.S. national team which won the bronze metal in the 1992 Olympic Games in Barcelona. Kim served as cap­
marfinr 
tain of that team, and also captained the U.S. at the 1988 Olympics in Seoul. Both sisters were named to the NCAA 1980s All-Decade Team, with Kim taking player of the decade honors. 
"The match will be kind of different for us because it's not like the pressure you feel as a player, or even had as a coach," said Elaina Oden. "It won't be anything personal whichever one of us loses ... but I still want us to win, no question." 
"This will be special for us, because it has never happened before," Kim Oden comment­ed. "It's always difficult to be on opposing sides. I want her team to do well but of course I want to win. I think Notre Dame is very fortunate to have Elaina here. I'm really excited to see her and spend some time visiting." 
The mateh begins tonight at approximately 8 p.m. in the Joyce Center, foll<lwing the Notre Dame-Southern California pep rally and short­ly before the "Midnight Madness" basketball practice. 

Go Irish! Beat USC! 

ACCELERATED PROGRAM IN ACCOUNTING 
for individuals with a baccalaureate degree as ofAugust 1998 in any major 
• 
Earn a certificate in accounting in 10 months 

• 
Course work is intended to cover material typically tested on the CPA examination 


• Program begins August 25, 1998 
• Application deadline: June 15, 1998 
For more information, please contact the Department of Business Administration and Economics at 219/284-4501 or the Admission Office at 219/284-4587. Saint Mary's College is ranked the #1 Midwest Regional Liberal Arts College by US. News and World Report.
-tit­
SAINT MARY'S 
COLLEGE 
SOTRE DAME, IN 

THE NATION'S PREMIER CATHOLIC WOMEN'S COLLEGE 

Side Door Deli 


ur ect 
Sante Fe SfYie "Chicken Quesadillas" 
Faiita chicken striPs. PePPers. onions. cheddar. mozzarella and a fresh cilantro. all folded into a crisPY flour tortilla. 
The Italian waY 
Cotto Salami. PePPeroni. cured ham. sliced tomatoes. roasted red PePPers. llrilled onions. Provolone cheese and flavored with our own !!rain mustard sauce. 
HardY Beef & Mushroom 
A ZIPPY beef sandwich flavored with a lii!ht l!arlic mayonnaise. i!rilled onions. mushrooms. PePPeroncini's and smothered with Provolone cheese. 
Garden Ve2etable with Yoeurt Cheese 
Low fat sandwich. stuffed with zucchini. onions. mushrooms. roasted PePPers. sPinach and cucumbers all melted tollether with sPiCY YO!!Urt cheese. 
Roast TurkeY 
This turkey breast is teamed with tomato slices. PePPeroni and cheddar cheese. 
Our Pesta Chicken 
A wonderful combination of Products. chicken breast. sliced tomatoes. fresh SPinach. basil Pesto sauce and swiss cheese. 
Whole Panini  Half Panini  
$3.95  $2.49  
Panini S  ecials!  

Half Panini with souP or salad. and drink 
__________ onlY $4.29 _________ _ Half Panini With SOUP 
__________ onlY $3.79 _________ _ 
Panini is a uniqtu' Italian Sandwich, filled with .fresh meats, vegetables and sauces -grilled to perfection and served HOT! 
,4vailable al these locations: -Corner ofSt. Rd. 23 & lronu•ood 272-6928 -/:'. .Jackson St .. Elkhnrl 2'),'1-66:)9 -St. Rd. Gra 21 
........ 

Prepared .fresh daily. We start with Fresh Iceberg Lettuce arui romaine, then top our salads with crisp vegetables and quality lJfeats & cheeses. 

Garden Salad 

Lettuce. tomatoes. cheddar cheese. cucumber slices. red om on;;. llreen PePPer rinlls. black olives & boiled ell!!. 
Vel:!etable Salad 

Lettuce. tomatoes. cucumber slices. red on10ns. black olives & ere en PePPer r1n2s. 
Chef Salad 

Lettuce. tomatoes. cheddar cheese. cucumber sl1ces. 
red onions. l1reen PePPers. boiled ell!!. turkey & ham. 
Cobb Salad 

Lettuce. tomatoes. cheddar cheese. red onions. blue cheese. boiled el!ll. scallions. chicken striPs & bacon bits. 
Seven laver Salad 

Lettuce. tomatoes. cheddar cheese. maYonnaise. Ere en Peas bacon bits & leaf lettuce. 
Caesar Salad 

Romaine lettuce. boiled e112. tomatoes. shredded Parmesan & croutons. 
Chicken Caesar Salad 
Romaine lettuce. boiled eel!. tomatoes. chicken stnPs shredded Parmesan & croutons. 
SPinach-Mushroom Salad 
SPinach. tomatoes. red onions. boiled e22. bacon bits & sliced mushrooms. 
Beef or Chicken Taco Salad 
Lettuce, tomatoes. cheddar cheese. beef or chicken. red onions. JZreen onions·. black olives. leaf lettuce. salsa & tostido chiPs. 
Crab Flake Salad 

Lettuce. lemon wedees. leaf lettuce. chives & imitation crab meat. 
ShrimP Salad 

Lettuce. lemon wedees. leaf lettuce. chives & cooked babY shrimP. 
Vel:!l:!ie Snack 

Leaf lettuce. carrot sticks. ereen PePPer striPs. celerY sticks. broccoli & cauliflower buds. tomato wedlles & Ranch dressinl1. 
--selertions 


-----------------------.----------~~---------­
friday, October 17, 1997 The Observer· SPORTS page 27 
• IRISH INSIGHT 
Midnight Madness opens promising Notre Dame season 
Fall break is upon us, and with it comes an end of sorts for many groups on campus. 
For the football team, al­
though it rarely gets to relax and enjoy much of it, the mid­semester wtwk ofl' from classes marks the end of' the 


first half' of' Brian Reinthaler the season. Assistant Sports Editor 
For students in general. it represents the end of midterm exams and the first rhance in the course of the aca­demic year to put papers and projects aside, at least for a few days. 
For all of us, it is a time to look back and analyze successes and failures that we have experi­enced since mid-August, in hopes of making adjustments and improvements to better our­selves down the stretch run of 1997. 
There is onn group on campus, though, for whom fall break mp­resents a beginning and a dean slate. It is hard to believe that the time has already come, but the 1997-98 basketball season will get underway tonight at midnight. 
That's right, Irish hoops fans, Midnight Madness is coming to the Joyce Center. The festivities begin at 11:10 p.m., and T-shirts will be awarded to the first 1,000 fans in attendance. 
Notre Dame will launch its campaign in an attempt to build on the success of a year ago, when the Irish made a run to the NIT quarterfinals before being ousted by the Wolverines of Michigan on a running jump shot in the waning momonts of the gamn. 
After knocking off Oral Roberts and TCU in the opening rounds, Notre Dame was given the opportunity to host hated stowed pre-season all-America honors on Garrity, and the Irish senior has been listed among the top 10 candidates for the Naismith College Player of the Year Award. 
Despite the loss of a number of key players to graduation, Garrity ic; also pleased with his supporting cast for the coming season. Among the freshmen who will be on display for the first time in their Notre Dame careers are forwards Leviticus Williamson and Hans Rasmussen, guards Martin lngelsby and Tom Krizmanich, and center Peter Okwalinga. 
So in between celebrating with your friends and packing your bags for a week away from South Bend, take an hour or so and eome out to support the ­Notre Dame basketball team as it enters what could be its most exciting year in decades. 
rival Michigan for the right to travel to New York's Madison Square Garden for the NIT semi­finals. · 
The Irish erased an early first half deficit of 20 points before halftime and grabbed their first lead with just minutes remaining on the clock in the second half. Unfortunately, the Irish came up just short on a last-second attempt of their own, and the exciting season came to an end. 
This year, 1996-97 Big East player of the year Pat Garrity returns to try to boost Notre Dame to the next step. Pre-sea­son honors have already begun piling up on Garrity's resume. Among other accolades, The Sporting News has rated Garrity 


as the third-best power forward in the nation and picked him to repeat as Big East player of the year. Inside Sports and Street & Smith's magazine have be­

"~ V€ ~ ~a~r;;(t ~ .. ~~14) 720r;;IJ 


L14v: ~' ~' 1, ~' £ I 


THESE 15 ORIGINAL SONGS FEATURI::••;TH .. HIT "HERE COME THE IRISH': 
WRITTEN AND co-PRODUCED BY JoHN ScULLY (1980lRISH TRI-CAPTAJN AND ALL-AMERICAN; NFL VETERAN FROM 1981 TO 1991) WITH GRAMMY-AWARD WINNING PRODUCER JIM TULLIO. 
PERFECT Gl FT IDEA-ALLOWS FANS 
OF NOTRE DAME 
EXPERIENCE INTO THEIR HOMES 
"SINCE GRADUATING AFTER THE 1980 SEASON, f HAVE B~EN KNOWN BEFORE ANYTHING ELSE AS SOMEONE WHO CAME FROM NOTRE DAME. IAM PROUD TO SAY THAT LABEL SPEAKS FOR ITSELF IN ALL MY ENDEAVORS." OHN SCULLY 

DUCER 
Available NOW atthe Notre · <, Bookstore and Varsity Shop. Orto order, call the Notre Dame Catalog Fulfillment Centertoday at 1-800-647-4641 
-
.._ 

page 28 The Observer • SPORTS Friday, October 17, 1997 
--------------------------------------~~------------­
• 

Undefeated Notre Dame enters home stretch 

By ALLISON KRILLA 
Sports Writer 

EntPring the home stretch of the regular season, the Notre Dame women's soccer team finds some of its most challeng­ing conference games still on the horizon. 

In their final four Big East games, the Irish (13-0-1. 7 -0-0l take on three of the top four teams in the conference. They face fourth-place Syracuse (12-3­0, 5-3-0) on the road, followed by Seton Hall (12-2-0. 7-0-0) and first place UConn ( 13-1-0, 8-0-0) at Alumni Field. 
The team carries a seven­game winning streak into Sunday's c<mtest with Syracuse, including five consecutive shutouts. 
Notre Dame hopes to usc its last few games to tune up for the postseason tournaments, but its Big East opponents seek to play the role of spoiler against the blue and gold. 
''I'm very excited for the rest of the season," said sophomore defender Jen Grubb. "Training has been really good recently, and I think it showed in the last few games. It's going to be fun to play in these games and also fun for the fans." 
Grubb and the rest of the defense will be tested more as the regular season draws to a close by the powerful ofl'enses of the conference's top teams. 
Seton Hall is led by Big East rookie of the week, sophomore Kelly Smith, who led the Pirates with five goals and one assist in two shutout victories last week. Smith has scored in nine games, and her 36 points set a single­season scoring record for Seton IIall. 
Notrn Damn has a high flying ofl'ense of its own, paced by Big East ofl'ensive player of the week Jenny Streiffer, whose four-goal efl'ort against Georgetown ranks second on the conference charts. 
It will be the defense, however, that determines Notrr. Dame's success. 
Goalkeeper LaKeysia Beene has reeordnd 11 shutouts and owns the best goals against aver­age in the nation (0.29). Defr.nders Grubb, Kate Sobrero, and Kelly Lindsey, while forced to play on the other side of mid­field during the lopsided victo­ries. have been working hard to keep their focus. 
"My job is to keep us solid in the back." said Grubb. "We need to keep our focus and not give up any soft goals. I go into the game thinking about taking care of the defensive end first, the assists come later. 
"It will be a good test for us," said Grubb of the tough contests ahead. "It's a little more chal­lenging to play the tougher [con­ference] teams at tho end, and then turn around and play them again in the Big East tourna-


Oct. 19 Oct. 24 Oct. 26 Oct. 31 Nov. 2 Nov. 7-9 Nov. 15-16 Nov. 21-23 Nov. 28-30 Dec. 5 Dec.? 
at Syracuse Seton Hall Connecticut Michigan Providence at BIG EAST NCAA 1st Round NCAA 2nd Round NCAA 3rd Round NCAA Semifinals NCAA Finals 
ment." 

Notre Dame also has another advantage in the eoming weeks: the games will take place in the friendly eonfines of Alumni Pield. Opponents will deal with thn jet lag and lack or fan support that road games bring. 
"Everybody is really nxdtnd to play at home," said Grubb. "I think it will be gr<mt for us and for our fans to be back at home." 

NOTRE DAME HOME GAMES 
Join Us at Parisi's Lounge 
Serving Sandwiches, Specials & Pizza Before &During the Game. 
Reservations accepted for dinner after the game. Call ahead for carry out orders. 
.. 
One of the few area restaurants with live dinner music. 
Fri. & Sat., 9 pm to midnight, Sun., 6:30-9:30 pm 
Albert Hidaldo, pianist 
-
MeR'S Soccer 
F'l:-iciay Qct. 17 

Your road to convenience begins on  
the  Information  Highway  with  our  
FREE "Dorm" Banking service. Via the  
Internet, you can access your account  
and perform many of the same trans­ 
actions that were once only available through Touch-Tone Teller.  ON-LINE  
All you need to access your account is  
an Internet Connection. Questions? Call for details.  DORM  
I  


WORLD-WIDE WEB: HTTP://WWW.NDFCU.ORG 
A Better Choice to klake 

LOCATIONS: 
Douglas Hoad 239-6611 or §.D0-522-6611 Ireland Hoad -299-2220 Edison Lakes-254-4400 Mill Street-256-2361 Saint Mary's Campus-284-4614 Saint .Joseph's Medieal Center-237-7288 
24-HOUR LOAN-BY-PHONE: 800-567-6328 E-MAIL: NDFCU@SKYENET.NET 
vs. (;fJ
Georgetown 
7~30pm 
Irish Volleyball JlsiJ vs. North Carolina 
Friday Oct. 17 
8:00pm 


Free admission to all students! 
Friday, October 17, 1997 The Observer • SPORTS page 29 
..... 

• FOOTBALl 
Notre Dame off to a good start in recruiting race 
By ERIK KUSHTO 
~portS Writer 
When the Notre Dame football tnam has a 2-4 start, people will look everywhere to find an answnr. 
Ont~ of the areas most fre­quently cited for the Irish decline this season has been recruiting, or lack thereof. It has bcen mentioned so often. in fact, that former head coach Lou lloltz took an opportunity on national tehwision to addrcss tho issue and the fingers that werc inevitably pointed at him. Recruiting is an issue that Bob Davie has made his No. 1 priori­ty, and while it is unclear what effect, if any, Notre Dame's slow start will have on this year's recruiting class, the Irish have acquired several commitments from some of the nation's best prep athletes. 
Notre Dame received its first verbal commitment in March when Tom Lopienski. a 6-foot­3, 235-pound fullback verbally committed to the Irish. Lopi£mski. from Walsh Jesuit High School in Cuyahoga Falls, Ohio, selected Notre Dame over the likes of Michigan. Michigan State, Penn State and Ohio State. Lopifmski played tailback during his junior year, rushing for mom than 500 yards before injuring his ankle halfway 
To Mr. Boubal's class, 
Kellie B. Kellie K. Jeremy Tanner Sean Hugo Cortney Kelsey K. Kaitlyn Kelsey G. Kerry Henry Ricky Jake Ryan Tracy Andrew Steven Sara Kate Scott Shannon George Matt 
Best Wishes this year in Third Grade!!! And good luck with your class paper. 
t :!•J~ l:iIt 
1-800-KAP-TEST 
www.kaplan.com 
"MCA.T IS a reg1stered trademark of the Assoc~ahon of Amancan MediCal Collages 


www.nd.edu/~observer/IRJ 
through the season. A talented receiver with excellent hands, Lopienski could contribute at fullback, tight end, linebacker or interior lineman. The son of a former Notre Dame corner­back, Lopienski is the first Walsh product to commit to Notre Dame since Hal Yon Wyl, who wore the blue and gold in the early 1980s. 
The Irish received their sec­ond commitment later last spring when Hyan Scarola announced he would attend Notre Dame. At 6-foot-5 and 308 pounds, Scarola was one of the most coveted linemen in the country. A native of Murrysville, Pa., Scarola is projected as an offensive tackle in college. Also the son of a Notre Dame alum­nus, Scarola turned down early offers from Northwestern and Penn State. 
Notre Dame's third com­mitment came as a surprise to many in the recruiting world. Although not listed as one of the top 600 seniors in country, Rocky Boiman, a 6-foot-4, 210­pound free safety from Cincinnati, Ohio, was offered a· scholarship by Bob Davie after attending the Notre Dame sum­mer football camp in June. 
"He has very good speed for a kid that size and can really cover," said Brian Smith of Inside Irish Recruiting/Student Sports Magazine. Boiman runs a 4.5 40-yard dash. 

Dave Piening/The Observer 

A projected strong safety or of Terrell. "To start with, he has drop linebacker, Boiman is a a terrific work ethic. He spends good hitter. During his junior his summers in Chicago with his year, Boiman had 51 tackles, uncle who played pro football three interceptions for 80 yards, and works out everyday. He is and three broken passes. He an extremely confident young also returned six kicks for 152 man." yards. Boiman will add some Rumors began to surface much-needed size to the Notre recently that Terrell was Dame secondary. wavering on his commitment, 
The jewel of Notre Dame's but both he and his coach put recruiting class so far is wide that rumor to rest. As receiver David Terrell. At 6-Huguenot High School coach foot-3 and 200 pounds, Terrell Richard McFee told Lou runs the 40 in 4.3 seconds. As Somogyi of Blue and Gold a junior at Huguenot High Illustrated, "(Terrell) is lock, School in Richmond, Va., stock, signed, sealed and deliv­Terrell caught 35 passes for ered to Notre Dame." 712 yards and 12 touchdowns. To these four commitments, Terrell has been rated as one of the Irish are hoping to add the top five prospects in the between 15 and 19 more before nation. the National Signing Day on 
"He is the bomb," raved Smith Feb. 4, 1998. 
Insiders discuss schools and the admissions process. 
DEVIL'S ADVOCATE (PG) 1:00 4:00 7:00 9:50 KNOW WHAT YOU DID (PG-13) 2:15 5:00 7:20 9:40 
ROCKETMAN (PG)

~Sunday, October 26th,6:00pm 1:45 4:30 6:40 9:00 ~ Notre Dame Law School YEARS IN TIBET (PG-13) Courtroom, 220 Law School, Notre Dame 1:15 4:10 7:10 10:00 THE GIRLS (R) 2:00 4:45 7:30 10:10
Scheduled Guest Speakers from 
SOUL FOOD (R) DePaul University College of Law • Northwestern University 1:30 4:20 6:50 9:30 
School of Law • Notre Dame Law School • University of ll~inois 
.._

College of Law • Santa Clara School of Law 

-

r------------------------,
: AI ~awwe Q • 
iuvtancino 'g l 
: ITALIAN EATERY : 
... 

: Football Feast : 
: Available All Day Saturday and Sunday 1 1
Monday After 4:00 p.m. 
1 New and Improved ­
*Spaghetti and Meatballs 
*New Appetizers *Chicken Strip Dinners *Games and Attractions (video games) 
**Bring this coupon and receive free 112 order of garlic bread w/purchase of meal. 
St. Andrew's Plaza 

LaSalle Square 620 W. Edison Rd. Suite 130 
913 N. Bendix Drive Mishawaka, IN 46545 
South Bend, IN 46628 L. 254-9533 234-5817 
------------------------~ 
page 30 The Observer· SPORTS Friday, October 17, 1997 
..... here, is rather subdued and is 
• MAJOR lEAGUE BASEBAlL
neither very cocky nor arrogant.

Jock Strip 
The only players who are really 

continued from page 32 
have this air. None can be more blatantly obvious than the sophomore members of the Notre Dame Hockey team. No one would mind it if the team was good, but coming off last season with only nine wins and 25 losses. there is nothing these men should gloat about. Maybe they are the best players this school has seen in a long time. One still doesn't gloat coming ofT two back-to-back sub-10 win seasons. 
Here's an example to ponder. A month ago, when Alumni Field held the adidas/Lady Footlocker classic, these players and a certain "lefthanded" member of our basketball team could be heard talking smack to the North Carolina woman's soccer team as it headed to the locker room at halftime down 1­
0. Phrases such as, "Good try, you always have Sunday to win," and "At least on Sunday you will be able to finish at .500" were heard. Now one might say that, if any other fan was chanti­ng this, it wouldn't matter. These other fans would know that the game was not over. They know that North Carolina is not ranked Nq. 1 for nothing. The Lady Tar Heels expect to hear cat calls from the crowd. but not from a team who scored fewer goals than they did last year. 
The hockey coach, Dave Poulin, a veteran NHL player, has a great deal of class, a great personality, and is very open with anyone who wants to talk. It is a shame that his image could be tarnished by these arrogant players. These players should forget about their inflat­ed egos and worry about win­ning hockey games. 
There are only two teams on this campus that may walk the walk and talk the talk: the foot­ball team and the woman's soc­cer team. The football team, although it is the main reason that a majority of students come conceited are rather low on the depth chart. You don't see Ron Powlus, Kory Minor, or Melvin Dansby walking around campus as if they are the man. 
The woman's soccer team can walk around the way it does for one reason: it has produced results. Since the program's inception in 1989, the team has worked to becomes winners. For the past three years, the team has been in the NCM finals, so it has the right to boast. 
A premier example for all ath­letes to follow is Notre Dame basketball star Pat Garrity. Garrity has been a star on the court ever since he was a sopho­more, yet no one would even kn0w who he was if he didn't tower over us. He strolls along campus and keeps to himself. He knows his star status, but plays it ofT as no big deal. 
Attitudes exist on every cam­pus and there is nothing anyone can do to change the way the athletes are. Hopefully, they will quickly realize that they should forgo personal superstar status and try to be liked by everyone on campus. If this doesn't hap­pen, they will never get any respect, unless they win an NCM championship. 
That may make their swelled heads explode. 

Hershiser accused of cheating 
By JIM LITKE 
Associated Press Writer 
When a pitcher is 39 years old and somehow still at the peak of his powers, people joke that he must have discovered the fountain of youth. Manager Davey Johnson wasn't laugh­ing, though, when Ore! llershiser stuffed his Orioles through seven solid innings the other night in the American League playoffs. 
"I know from experience that Ore! likes to put water on the back of his neck," said .Johnson, who managed against llershiser for nine sHasons when both were in the National League. 
"He prefers to have the cover of the ball moist as opposed to dry, and he will get water wherever he can get it. I Ie was going right from his mouth right to the ball and that's ille­gal." 
There are a number of ways to view .Johnson's comments. The obvious one is as sour grapes, since the loss of that game last Saturday put his team down 2-1 in the series and the Orioles were going to face Hershiser and that wicked sinker one more time if the series went to seven games. (It didn't.) 
One chance to get Hershiser to say it ain't so evaporated Wednesday, when the Indians finished oi'J' the ALCS in Baltimore. He blew ofT a sched­uled appearance in the inter­view room before that Game 6, saying he would answer ques­tions only afterward and only if he were going to pitch Game 7. 
Florida teammate Bobby Bonilla has heard the rumors, too, but he's not sure what to make of them. 
"lie is getting a little older," Bonilla chuckled. "He's got to be crafty." 
Think ofus 
as yourscHool bus. 

semester breaks or heading home for your sister's wedding, if going home means catching a plane at Midway or O'Hare, the best way to the airport is United Limo. 
Frequent S91ViCe, all day from campus gets you there on schedule. And when it's time to hit the books again, we'll pick you up at the airport and bring you back to school. No hassles, no problems. 
For information and schedule consult your travel agent or call 
800-833-5555 
www.busville.com 

I I~ITI=n II~AO 
Vi ~ii ii i-U i.i.i i i'-J 
Your Airport Connection, O'Hare &Midway, AllDay... Every Day 
United Limo to the Chicago Airports 
Arrive O'Hare 

Main Gate (via Tri State Coach· Terminals 1, 2, & 3 transfer in Portage) (International terminal 
15 minutes later) 3:00a.m. 6:10a.m. 5:55a.m. 5:00a.m. 8:10a.m. 8:20a.m. 7:00a.m. 10:10 a.m. 9:55a.m. 8:00a.m. 11:10 a.m. 10:55 a.m. 9:00a.m. 12:10 p.m. 11:55 a.m. 
11:00 p.m. 2:10p.m. 1:55 p.m. 12:00 p.m. 3:10p.m. 2:55p.m. 1:00 p.m. 4:10p.m. 3:55p.m. 3:00p.m. 6:10p.m. 5:55p.m. 5:00p.m. 8:10p.m. 7:55p.m. 
Leave Notre Dame Arrive Midway 
'?ALL S!D&e'7AL 

$3 p_er person per hour 
(Not Friday or Saturday after 6 o'clock) ••THE BEST TABLES AT THE BEST RATES.. 
402 E.Madison SouthBend 23-0-S-C-A-R (236-7227)
Open 7 days a week 

_
.. Must be 21 to enter Just <l 3 minute walk from downtown 
Full Bar • Appetizers • Leagues • Tournaments 
S>RIOOfT (/!\COUIQf'S)
-

1025 SOUTH BEND AVE. 3 BLOCKS SO. OF STADIUM 
... 
TUES. & WED. CLOSED 
THURS. $2 COVER DJ IS CAPT. MOORE 
FRI. OPEN 2:00 PM (FREE MUNCHIES) DJ AT 10:00 
-
SAT. OPEN AT 9:00 A.M. DJ IS BLONDIE 
HAVE A GOOD BREAI<! 
GO IRISH!! 

IDdustriaJ ~Progressive ~ Retro ~ AJterDativeDaDce 
.-~·m
•'' ...
'.'
... 

Tic.+t!is available at~~ and HEARTLAND 

SISTER MACHINE GUN 
Tick11ts available at~~ and HEARTLAND 
EVERY WEDNESDAY 
Snow Crab Legs, AII-U-Can-Eat, just 15.95 9 oz. Top Sirloin Butt Steak & lib. of Snow Crab Legs, just 17.95 Open 5-lOpm Tues.-Thurs. & 5-llpm Fri. & Sat. Free Admission to Heartland with Dinner ;!22 S. MICHIGAN· SOUTH BEND· (219) 234-5200 
' 

Friday, October 17, 1997 
The Observer • TODAY page 31 
MEN ABOUT CAMPUS 

MOTHER GOOSE & GRIMM 

DILBERT 

I'LL J"UST COMPARE MY FUND'S PERFORI"\A.NCE
IS II HARD TO WRITE 
TO T\4E S&P 500
AN EARNlNGS REPORT UNDER A. COMMON SE.T
AFTER YOU STEAL OF ASSUMPTIONS.
THE INVESTORS' 1-\0NEY? 
OH. 
\.._ 

DAN SULLIVAN YOUR HOROSCOPE 
Aries: Seek to initiate dialogues today, but avoid 
arguments. Your mouth has a mind of its own, and 
HAV£ A JJA PPY 
BREA~. bRIV£ 
your own words surprise
SAFELY. DoN'T 
you. Your interests are 
C,ET LOST, 
best served by knowing 
when to stop. 

RELAX, A!Jb 
NAV£ FUt-1· 
Taurus: Spend as much time as possible in the pre­sent tense today. You are in touch with your feelings but out of touch with the future. Being observant ofMIKE PETERS your surr-oundings will keep you out of trouble. 
Gemini: Today you are the social butterfly in a field of bright flowers. You know what you want, and you act swiftly and deci­sively to get it. Your words hold everyone enthralled. 
Cancer: You feel blown over by a wind of data and details. Someone is going to ignore you no matter how many times you explain something to him.
SCOTT ADAMS It's okay to give up on oth­
u 

ers today .after you've
< 140W "TEN PERCENT done your best with them. 

BETTER THA.N
~ DID 
~ 

Leo: With the Moon visit­
iHE 5&P 500 
on ~ 

ing Gemini's house, the 
. ~ 

, IF IT WERE AL50 
wind will fan your names 
: MANAGED BY AN 
over the next few days. No
.. 

UNSCRUPULOU5 
idea or impulse is too 
.. < DOG!'' 
.~ 
::> 

strange to investigate. 
Love will find you even if 
you are not looking for it. 

Virgo: Today's slightest stammer or misplaced punctuation mark could be turned against you. Everyone's standards have suddenly become very high. The traditional approach may be the best right now. 
Libra: You experience a rich moment of introspec­tion or heart to heart com­munication today. Take a new approach to an old theme. It may be hard to keep from dancing. 

Scorpio: This is not your lucky day, unless you con­sider it good luck if noth­ing truly awful happens. You are tempted to trust someone with pretty words or a pleasant smile. Minor details could become major problems. 
Sagittarius: Gamblers may break the bank today; then again, they may lose everything. Be clear and direct with your partner if you have any kind of future together. Important events happen quickly. 
Capricorn: The presence of uninformed or unfo­cused people makes you feel like a genius. Your mental health may require that you spend some time in isolation today. Get out­side for open sky time, and don't talk to strangers. 
. Aquarius: Surrender to the moment today, discon­necting it from past and future. The Moon in Gemini causes events to happen with greater speed than you could have imag­ined. An erotic experience might take you beyond the realm of words. 
Pisces: Stay right where you are, or get to a safe place as soon as you can. The winds of confusion are about to stir things up again. Keep your per­plexed state to yourself ­others may not be able to relate. 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 25 Cry of glee 2&A.C.L.U.
1 Thoroughfares: concerns: Abbr.
Abbr. 28 Vogue
4 1920's chess champion 29 Gigs Capablanca 30 One of Frank's 
8 Nubia Desert exes site 31 Bill and Bob's 13 Canvas coats? 
opponent 

32 Sheds Ben Franklin's 33 Archly theatrical portrait 34 Ab --(from 
17 Pump thump the beginning) 18 Attorney 35 Cornerstone of modifier Cartesianism 19 Going around 36 Centers the world 37 Nonexistent 20 Much of boot 38 Air France 
camp terminal 21 Fax button 39Goggles 22 Giveaway 40 Threw over 23 Projecting part 42 !, to a printer 16 Where to see 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
9 Free from restraint 
10 Important monetary currency peg 
121ntelligence 14 Cooler places? 15 Work on, with 
"to" 20 Hero's list 

43 Particular 44Greens, 
politically 48 Ardent 49 Quid pro quo 50 Sweetie pie 51 Monet subject 52 Physicist Mach 53 Raw material 54 Tarquin's title 
DOWN 

1 Area near · TriBeCa 2Ciass 3 Tabletop, perhaps 4 In agreement 5 Upright 
&Actaeon, ultimately, in Greek myth 
7 Hrs. in Quebec 8 Hermes accessories 

25 Young role on 
TV 27 Drains 28 Suffix in 
high-tech company names 
29--be 32 Prized 
mushroom 33 Rodeo rider 35 Most moronic 36 Psalms singer 39 Faux pas 41 Exchanges 

Wanted: Reporters, 
42 She played 46 Scheherazade 
photographers and 
Margo in "All specialty 
About Eve" 
47 An oath on it was 43 See once held to be 44 Jim Carrey, in a inviolable 
editors. 
1997 movie 49 Company 45 Sensation number 
Join The Observer 
Answers to any three clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420-5656 (75¢ per minute). 
staff.
Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
.. 
• 
-


SPORTS Weekend 
• 
-
.. -
page 32 
• 
Notre Dame looks for home court win 

The ObseNer/Joe Star\< Angie Harris and the Notre Dame volleyball team build off a winning streak as they face North Carolina tonight. 
By BILL HART 
Sports Writer 
Notro Damo's volloyball tnam will hopo to continuo its win­ning ways tonight. taking tho home court against North C.arolina in tlw toam's final homo match of the month. 
North Carolina, dospitn the difficult task put beforn it. has playod vory solidly and consis­tently this season. The Tar llor.ls arc 12-8 on the soason and 4-3 in ACC action. 
The Tar llools just roccntly ended a two-match skid with a four-game win over NC State on Tuesday. They are led by senior hitter Alida Alford, who had 20 kills in the win over the Wolfpack. and sophomore Tori Seibert, who has averaged 
3.642 kills per game. 
Last season, the Tar lleels went 20-12 on the season and tied for fourth in the ACC. 
"We've watched quite a bit of tape on them," head coach Debbie Brown said about tho Irish's opponents, "and wo've learned quito a bit ofT of il. They'rn a solid team, well bal­anced between o!Tense and defense. Thoy'vc been very competitive in tlw ACC recently. This should be a tough match." 
Notre Dame (12-5), on the other hand, has rcaclwd ono of its higlwst points of tho soason. With wins over eonforonce opponents Boston Collnge and Providnnce last weokend. the Irish arc riding a six-match winning streak, thoir longost of the season. 
Tho team is currently 4-0 in Big East play, tif~d with Villanova for first place in the conference. The Irish have won 52 of their last 53 matches against unranked opponents in the Joyce Center and have not lost to an unranked team since early last season. 
This is the last match for the team before it begins a five­match road trip which will last through the end of the month. 
The Irish have been relatively successful against the Tar Heels, having won the only two contests that have oeeurred. llowever, the last time the two teams played was a 3-0 win in 1986. 
Notre Damn continues to excel in the Big East, with 
see VOLLEYBALL I page 26 
• 
Irish face four tough teams over break 
By TOM STUDEBAKER and DAN LUZIETTI Sports Writers 
The Notre Dame men's soccer team docs not exactly have a relaxing fall break this year. Over the course of the week, the Irish will play four big conference games against Georgetown, St. John's, Seton Hall, and Connecticut. All of these games will be crucial to the Big East standings as the post-season tournament approaches. 
The Georgetown Hoyas are currently ranked first in the Big East with a confer­ence record of 6-1 and a season record of 8-4. The Irish, 8-4-2 on the year and 4-1-1 in conference play, are ill' second place. A win for the Irish would put them one point behind the Hoyas and in great position to make a late-season run. 
Last year, the Irish beat the Hoyas twice by a score of 2-1, with one game going into overtime. Georgetown is coming off of an emotional overtime win over conference foe Pittsburgh. Junior midfielder Billy Bednarz scored with just one minute remaining in the first overtime to give Georgetown the victory. 
Friday's match against Georgetown promises to be a showdown of two of the top goaltenders in the Big East. Sophomore goalie Tyler Purtill has played tremendously in the net for the Hoyas all season long. He has not allowed more than one goal in any of the 12 games this year. Irish goalie junior Greg Velho has also had a great year thus far. He has posted seven shutouts on the year and did not allow a Big East opponent to score until Notre Dame's sixth conference game. 
The Irish attack is coming off of a stellar performance against Western Michigan on Tuesday night. After being held in check 

~­
-A 'A 
@ 


The Observer/Brandon Candura 
Notre Dame takes a strong offense into four Big East games next week. 
for the first half, Notre Dame exploded in the second, scoring an astounding seven unanswered goals. Senior eo-captain Hyan Turner, senior Bill Savarino, and junior Ben Bocklage each scored two goals for the Irish. 
The Irish defense will be called on to stop lloyas forward Eric Kvello, who has scored nine goals on the year, seven of which came against Big East opponents. Kvello, a junior, is second in scoring in the Big East. lie is joined up front by senior Tom Greaser and sophomore Jason Partenza. 
The Irish will then play defending 
vs. USC, 

,.
Tomorrow, 2:30 p.m. 

~ 
at Syracuse, October 19, 12 p.m. 
vs. Georgetown, 

•$¢
Today, 7:30p.m. vs. North Carolina, 

Today, 8 p.m. $¢ national champion St. John's on Tuesday. Last year, Notre Dame tied the Bed Storm 2-2, and this year's game is extremely important because both teams are cur­rently tied for second place in the Big East. 
The next stop on the Irish road trip will be Seton Hall. Notre Dame holds a series advantage of 3-1 against the Pirates. 
The last stop on the trip will be Connecticut. The last timn that these two teams played was in the semifinals of the Big East tournament last year, with the Irish prevailing 2-1. 
Notre Dame takes on Georgetown tonight, at 7:30p.m., at Alumni Field. 
at St. Cloud State, 
Today, 7 p.m. at Central Collegiate, Today, 4 p.m. 
Volleyball at Franklin, 
October 19, 3 p.m. Soccer vs. John Carroll U., Today, 3 p.m. 
Friday, October 17, 1997 
• JocK STRIP 
Trash talk nothing but bad attitude 
Last week on the ESPN Web page. viewers were asked to determine if athletes exude sportsmanship. or the re­sponses 30 percent said that athletes 
r-------..., somewhat showed sports· manship. 
Sports­manship is a neces­sary com­ponent of m a k i n g Sporrs Wrirer 
sports fun. Nobody wants to go out and play a pick-up game of touch football if a kid on the other team is going to mock his opponent. The only thing this brings about is a game-end­ing fight and a few trips to the infirmary. 
Trash talk also reflects poorly on the person who speaks it. Take Charles Woodson for example. Woodson, an All-American candidate cornerback from Michigan, is quoted a..<; saying, "Water covers three-fourths of the lcmd, I cover the other fourth." That statement and many other trash-talking comments make Michigan's opponents want to destroy the Wolverines. This wa..<; evi­dent when we played them three weeks ago. The only thing that stopped Bobby Brown from a touchdown was Woodson's hand on his shoul­der pads. 
On the basketball court trash-talking is experienced even more with the constant heckling of one's man in order to throw off his concentration, and make him cause a turnover. 
Sportsmanship is a idea that needs to be grasped by all athletes, no matter the sport. But where does this notion of sportsmanship come from? Usually, it will come from the athlete's attitude in general. Athletes whose atti­tude is negative will usually be unfriendly and not the type one would go up to after a game. They, in a sense, always have their game faces on. Athletes with a positive attitude may talk smaek dur­ing the game, but when the contest is over they are kind, personal, and friendly. 
Let's take a deep look at the attitudes the exude from the athletes here on campus. The athletes can be found interwoven among us, walk· ing to class. in the dining hall. and in our own dorm. Most of them walk around without a certain air of importance, but there exist a few who do 
see JOCK STRIP I page 30 

Q.) •Football recruiting update 
~ 
see page 29••riJ • Women's soccer 
-e 
see page 28 

~.. .-..-. ;-: ~~ .-~: -; ~ ~ .--:-~---:-.~.:--:.-:-.----:-.-:--:-..-:--:-.. -:-:-.. ..,.....,..,. .....---,-;-,.,.,....,... -..,.....--;. ··-···· . ' . . ' . . • • • • • • • • . 'l 
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 
. ' ... 1 
. . .. ' . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
. I 
I 
I 
()C'f'(>BEH J 7, 1997 N(YfH.E I>AME VS. S<)UTI-IERN CALIF()RN lA 


r 
r 
----~ ----~----------""'!""~-~...,......_,-----:,....,..,...,_.~---.-~. -~ 
! 
Irish Insider • STATISTICALLY SPEAKING Friday, October 17, 1997 
FIGHTIN' IRISH 
Penalties-Yards  Nelson  10  16  
Average Per Game  Barry  6  7.5  12  
NO  Opp  Average Per Punt  
First Downs  126  136  Time Of Possession/Game  Punt Returns  No  Yds  Avg  TD  Long  
Rushing  56  63  3rd Down Percentage  44%  48%  Rossum  6  19  3.2  0  7  
Passing  63  62  4th Down Percentage  22%  50%  Denson  2  24  12.0  0  13  
Penalty  7  11  Sacks By-Yards  10-69  8-56  
Rushing Yardage  984  1155  Interceptions  No  Yds  Avg  TD  Long  
Average Per Rush  4.1  4.5  Individual Statistics  Minor  2  37  18.5  0  33  
Average Per Game  164.0  192.5  Rossum  1  1  1.0  0  1  
TDs Rushing  8  13  Passing  Effie  Att-Cmp-lnt  Pet  Yds  TD Avg/G  Guilbeaux  1  0  0.0  0  0  
Passing Yardage  1233  1186  PowIus  129 177-118-5  66.7  1233 5  205.5  
Att-Cmp-lnt  178-118-5  174-107-4  Smith  0.00  1-0-0  0.0  0  0  0  Kick Returns No  Yds  Avg  TD  Long  
Average Per Pass  6.9  6.8  Rossum  8  229  28.6  1  93  
Average Per Catch  10.4  11.1  Rushing  No  Yds  Avg  TD  Long  Avg/G  Driver  7  137  19.6  0  49  
Average Per Game  205.5  197.7  Denson  126  550  4.4  5  50  91.7  Denson  5  93  18.6  0  33  
TDs Passing  5  3  Stokes  17  110  6.5  0  17  22.0  Harper  3  57  19.0  0  23  
Total Offense  2217  2341  Goodspeed 18  81  4.5  0  14  27.0  Sanders  1  10  10.0  0  10  
Total Plays  418  428  Driver  23  71  3.1  1  9  11.8  
Average Per Play  5.3  5.5  Spencer  13  66  5.1  23  11.0  Defensive UT  AT  Tot  ForL Sacks  In!  
The Observer/Brandon Candura Bobby Brown leads the Irish with 32 recep­tions on the year.  Average Per Game Kickoff Return Average lnt Return Average  369.5 22.6 9.5  390.2 23.9 10.6  Receiving No Brown 32  Yds Avg 380 11.9  TD 3  Long 39  Avg/G 63.3  Friday Dansby Minor  30 28 30  30 24 14  60 52 44  0 4-21 4-8  1.0-5 1.5-26 1.5-14  0 0 2-37  

TROJANS 
397.0 Woods 52.93 3-1-0 33.3 17.0 Raaphorst 131.1 3-2-0 66.7 Opponents Punt Return Average 9.0 9.0 Woods 556.0 1-1-0 100.0 lnt Return Average 14.6 8.3 
Team Statistics usc Opp Fumbles-Lost 5-2 12-4 Receiving No Yds Avg First Downs 89 102 Penalties-Yards 34-287 39-343 Miller 32 362 11.3 Rushing 31 29 Average Per Game 57.4 68.6 Soward 22 419 19.0 Passing 47 69 Average Per Punt 42.4 39.0 Bastianelli 19 223 11.7 Penalty 11 4 3rd Down Percentage 33% 35% Harris 4 67 16.8 Rushing Yardage 474 424 4th Down Percentage 20% 50% Sermons 4 16 4.0 
Average Per Rush 2.6 2.6 Sacks By-Yards 22-147 13-81 
Average Per Game 94.8 84.8 Punt Returns No Yds Avg TDs Rushing 6 6 Individual Statistics Morton 17 149 8.8 Passing Yardage 1108 1561 Rushing No Yds Avg TD Long Avg/G Soward 2 7 3.5 
Att-Cmp-lnt 164-91-4 195-107-7 MacKenzie 46 163 3.5 3 20 32.6 Steen 1 18 
Average Per Pass 6.8 8.0 Woods 35 139 4.0 2 12 34.8 Cook 1 14 
Average Per Catch 12.2 14.6 Washington 50 112 2.2 0 9 22.4 
Average Per Game 221.6 312.2 Sermons 18 71 3.9 0 11 14.2 Interceptions No Yds 
TDs Passing 6 9 Papadakis 7 28 4.0 0 11 7.0 Morton 2 32 
Total Offense 1582 1985 Kelly 2 32 
Total Plays 349 361 Passing Effie Att-Cmp-lnt Pet Yds TD Avg/G McCutcheon 1 0 0.0 0 0 
The Observer/Brandon Candura 

Average Per Play 4.5 5.5 Fox 118 157-87-4 55.4 1063 5 78 Cook 1 0 0.0 0 0 
Tailback Delon Washington has been held to just 112 yards on 50 carries. 
~ ®l'I.J[]~~ 
Mon thru Thurs: 
11 a.m. -1 a.m . 
Fri th ru Sat: 
11 a.m. 3 a.m. 

~------------~Sunday:
12 p.m. -1 a.m.

27:1.-:L:L 77 Notre Dame 27:1.-PAPA Saint Mary's 




Visa/Mastercard Accepted [I( Voted "Best Deliv81'811 Pizza" The 1997, '96, '95, '94, & '93 Best of Michiana 



... ..,.,.....,....,,..-,-..,.--...,....---.~-·~ 

Friday, October 17, 1997 page 3 
Irish Insider • THE MATCH-UPS 
IRISH ON THE OFFENSIVE••• 



The Observer/Brandon Candura 
Tailback Autry Denson and the Notre Dame rushing attack hope to build on last week's" 17-yard performance. 
T
his week, head coach Bob 
Davie has been able to do 
something that he hasn't been 
able to do: build on a win. 
Last week, the Irish finally found the end zone which had been as elusive as goals against the women's soccer team. Against Pittsburgh, the Irish rolled up 45 points and 317 yards on the ground. This week, they will try to find out if they can do it against a decent team. 
Though the Trojans are limping into South Bend with a 2-3 record they still rank third in the natio~ in run defense and all of their loss­es have come to solid opponent~. 
But Davie's squad now has a bit of confidence that it hoves to build on as it aims to turn around the season. 
"We made some improvement against Pittsburgh," Davie said. "I t,tifnk the thing that stands out is we had players step up and make plays. That is what gives you con­fidence." 
T
he Trojan rushing attack is certainly nothing to fear. That is, of course. unless your defense ranks 90th nationally against the run. Although Southern California has averaged only 90 yards rushing per game, Notre Dame goes into Saturday's con­test allowing 204 yards per game on the ground on 4. 7 yards per carry. Not to mention the fact that the Trojans boast a mammoth offensive line which measures 6­foot-5, 315 pounds per man. 
"Everyone looks at our offensive line and says how big we are," commented Irish head coach Bob Davie. "You know, we have got some size, but we are nowhere close to what Southern Cal is across the front." 
The expected return of Bobbie Howard and Corey Bennett could bolster the Irish front seven enough to keep USC tailbacks Delon Washington and Malaefou MacKenzie under wraps. The two have combined for only 175 rush­ing on the year and are averaging less than three yards per carry. MacKenzie, a true freshman, has been the better of the two thus far. The first and second string fullbacks, Rodney Sermons and Ted Iacenda, have combined for only 19 carries in 1997. 
Sophomore John Fox has led the Trojans through the air, but has completed just 55.4 percent of his passes. R. Jay Howard pro­vides Fox with a deep threat tar­get. Soward leads Southern Cal in receiving yardage (419 yards), despite catching only 22 balls, 10 less than reception leader Billy Miller. 
"I can't imagine there are many receivers in this country better than (Soward)," commented Irish 
Bobby Brown and Malcolm Johnson will be challenged tomor­row by one of the best secondarip· in the nation. USC's cornerba·!\.s Daylon McCutcheon and B 1 ~n Kelly will line up nose to nc'0 With the Irish receivers, freeino up the rest of their defense. 
"They have two }:>t> time ~orne~s in McCutcheon ulld Kelly, Davie said. "They .. ertainly ~ave the ability to 1:ne up and JUSt play bump-a.P':-run. They play With a lot ~·-versonality and are not p:taid to get up and take chances." 
So far this season the receiving corps has been up to the challenge and arguably the brightest spot for the offensive unit. 
"I think our receivers are as improved as any element or any dimension of our football team," Davie expressed. "They have made some big, big third down conversions through the course of the season." 
Despite the play of the receivers anrl TC'Jn Powlus, Davie knows that ,de game will be won in the trenches. 


"Let's face it, for us to win, we have to run the football and that isn't any different than what I said going into the Georgia Tech game," Davie said. 
Last week's emergence of Clement Stokes and a healthier Jamie Spencer flashed the talent that the running attack had bot­tled up for the first four games. 
"I think that at running back it is obvious with competition it brings out the best in players," Davie said. "Clement Stokes deserved a chance to play, but I think Autry Denson responded just as well." 
"We are pleased with Jamie Spencer," Davie continued. "He looks like he is getting back close to 100 percent." 
Davie also hopes that his offense will continue to make strides at playing at 100 percent of its potential tomorrow. 
-Joe Cavato 
I 


Quarterback~­
Experience .lbi~ves the edge to/Powlus over the sophomore John Fox. The sign a l-callers share almost identical mnribers. · 

Running Backs 
RQbinson has used a tailback by committee, which means he's not really thrilled with any 
of them. A healthy Spencer could pro­vide the Irish with what they need. 
Receivers 
Brown and Johnson have been all they can be for the Irish, but USC's Soward is a play-maker, something that Davie is still without. 
Offensive Line 
Both are immense and­look terrific on paper. However, both have 

underachieved. This is a pivotal aspect, and as always, this is where the game will be won and lost. 
Defensive Line 
Perry, Matlock, and Jefferson have some­thing the Irish lack up front -size. Though none of its opponents is known for the run, USC still has the third-best run defense. 

Linebackers 
Kory Minor and the return of Bobbie Howard from a knee injury give the Blue and Gold the edge. Trojan inside linebacker Chris Claiborne is big and makes things happen. 
Secondary 
Are you kidding? McCutcheon and Kelly are cornerbacks but play a different game than Covington and Rossum. 
Special Teams 

These units practically 
mirror each other. Both possess proven return men and premiere punters, and the only ques­tion lies in place kicking. 
Coaching 
Even though Robinson is on the hot seat, he is still a legend who has beaten the Irish seven out of 11 attempts. 
Overall 

After the Trojans spoiled NO's hopes for a big 
• post-season payday, end­
ing the Decade of Dominance, the Irish hope to take one step closer to the .500 mark. 
coach Bob Davie. "He is a game­breaker." 
Cornerback Allen Rossum has his work cut out for him covering Soward. In 16 games at the colle­giate level, the sophomore has already broken eight touchdowns for 60 yards or more. The rest of the secondary must also step it up in order to force the Trojans to rely on their sputtering ground game. 
Other changes in the defensive unit for the Irish include the replacement of senior cornerback Ivory Covington, with classmate Ty Goode. Goode has provided a spark in the backfield with his spirited play and heavy hitting in games at Stanford and Pittsburgh. Up front, Bennett will play nose guard, moving Lance Legree to the back-up position. Howard should start with Jimmy Friday at inside linebacker, and Grant Irons will have a chance to come off the bench. 

-Brian Reinthaler 
••. TROJANS ON THE OFFENSIVE 
____________.,..________ ________ 
page4 Friday, Octobe,r 17, 1997
Irish Insider· COVER STORY 
-~--~His turn in the 
"­
Senior tailback Clement Stokes finally shines through advPrsity 
By BETSY BAKER 
Associate Sports Editor 
The words "spark" and "elu­sive" may very well be two of the most overused adjectives to describe a good tailback in col­lege football. But with his 109­yard performance last week against Pittsburgh, Clement Stokes epitomized them both. 
The senior tailback worked his way into the lineup last week and provided the type of perfor­mance that helped open up the Irish offense, maximizing its potential across the boards and producing the kind of success it had been searching for all sea­son. 
The Irish scored 45 points against the Panthers, and although Stokes was not person­ally responsible for any of the points, his contribution on offense allowed for a balanced attack that left the Pitt defense spinning. 
So where has this "spark" been all season? Add "patient" to that list of adjectives because Stokes has been there all along, waiting for his chance to break through. 
Stokes, who is considered a junior eligibility-wise, began his career with the Irish as a back­up tailback and a member of the special teams. He did not play his freshman year but saw the field in all games except Boston College and Navy during his sophomore year, ranking sixth among Irish rushers in 1995. 
The spring of his sophomore year brought academic turmoil for Stokes and almost led to him leaving the University. After spending the fall semester of his junior year away from the University, Stokes returned with a renewed focus. 
"My sophomore year. ·. was a little unsure of things." ~tokns said. "I think that's when· ' ling away for a semester -a .. d stepping back from football am just really looking at yotn" arad­emics and what you want to do long term -really helps you. When I was away, I realized that I really did love Notre Dame." 
Stokes' renewal spread from inside the classroom onto the football field as he was onp, of the premiere performers last spring. Stokes ran for 139 yards on 26 carries in the second of the two B!ue-Gold scrimmages. earning him offensive MVP hon­ors for the spring game. 
Going into this fall, it appeared as if Stokes was going to have the opportunity to finally prove himself. However. the emergence of freshman tailback Tony Driver, combined with the inability of the running game to establish a consistent rhythm in its first five games, put Stokes once again in the role of a reserve with his main contribu­tion as a member of the special teams. 
Still. Davie recognized Stokes' work ethic early and began to realize that while his team did not lack the speed or talent that Stokes could contribute, his proven resilience could be exemplary for the downtrodden Irish. Davie began to refer to Stokes as the "spark" of the spe­cial teams before the Michigan game, and his vote of confidence for the senior last week proved successful. 
"He deserves to play," Davie said after the win at Pittsburgh. "Clement hasn't stopped work­ing. He has given 100 percent in practice and on special teams. He deserves some play-


The 

Clement Stokes is looking to prove that he is capable of duplicating his performance from last week. 
ing time." ed. also remain each other's bfgg("st The most valuable asset If last week's performance is supporters. 
Stokes contributes to the Irish, any indication, it appears to be Davie couldn't be happier with 
however, is the fact that he is a in the best interest of the Irish to the Stokes-Denson combination, 
team player. Afthough he has have Stokes in the game. especially with the product of 
waited patiently to prove him­Stokes' style complements that the competition. 
self, and did so last week, he is of leading-rusher Autry Denson, "The thing I was pleased with still willing to do what is in the and the combination of the two the most in the second half last best interest of the team. could provide a deadly one-two week is that I saw Clement ''I'm a player just like anyone punch for the Southern Cal Stokes run the football -I was else, and I just want to do defense. The two tailbacks watching the tape at four in the what's best for the team, and seem to push each other, as morning -and I saw a kid what is going to win football shown by each having a 100-jumping up and down on the games for us," Stokes comment-plus yard performance, but they sidelines. It was Autry Denson," 
Davie said. "So I think we have good chemistry at that position. We have a lot of good competi­tion and that will bring out the best in all of them." 
Stokes realizes the value of the competition also. 
"You get motivated by compe­tition," Stokes commented. "When you have good guys that play up to the level you're around, it motivates you. Whenever one person does well, we all enjoy to see them do well, but when it's our turn. we push for the person who's in there." 
Hegardless of who is on the field. though, Stokes' focus will remain the same -continue to work hard so that whatever capadty he fulfills will bP a posi­tivn contribution to the team. lie is not complac1~nt with wlwre hn is now. though. and hopns that in the next year and a half, his contribution to the team will coincide with the development of a career that places him in the long history of great Irish tailbacks. 
"I've worked a long time to get where I am. but I'm not content where I am right now," Stokes said. "I just have to continue to work hard. I don't think it's one thing that you can put your fin­ger on, like I have to do this to win, or this to play. I didn't approach it that way up until this point. It's just a matter of going 100 percent every down, and when you get the opportuni­ty you need to step up." 


page 6 Irish Insider • THE INSIGHT Friday, October 17, 1997 
• IRISH INSIGHT 
T
imes sure have changed. In the past 37 years, this football program has witnessed four national champi­onship seasons, seven different head 
coaches, and a new stadium sprout up. 
Approximately 3 7 years ago in 1960, both Notre Dame and USC faced each other with losing records. The Irish were under the leadership of Joe 

Kuharich.  Kathleen Lopez  
"JUSt  the  Assistant Sports Editor  
pageantry that goes  
with  this  game  is  

second to none," Irish head coach Bob Davie said about the storied history between Notre Dame and USC. 
"The Notre Dame game is of maxi­mum importance to us in terms of our experience in playing this rivalry," said USC head coach John Robinson. "For us, I can't tell you how important it is for all of us on this team, in terms of our personal situation that we're in." 
Currently, the two teams enter the game with the same problems. Notre Dame's record stands at 2-4, while USC's record is 2-3. 
"The Notre Dame team has had problems much like ours," Robinson said. "They have not played as well as they have hoped. But they're fighting to start some momentum in their sea­son." 
"It is really exciting to have a chance to play USC," Davie said. "This is probably the biggest rivalry I have been involved in college coaching. Two great universities and two storied foot­ball programs." 
Currently, the Irish lead the series 39-24. USC holds the record for most victories against Notre Dame with 24, while the Irish hold the record for most victories against the Trojans with 39. 
This meeting marks the 52nd 

straight game between the two rivals. In the past. this rivalry marked the do· or die game of the season for both teams. 
Despite the fact that many question the significance of the game this year, its impor­tance is sub­stantial. While this game does not make or break Bob Davie's coach­ing career, it does for Robinson. The USC coach is in the midst of trying to dispel rumors. 

The Trojans haVe n0 t beat-The Observer/Brandon Candura en the Irish in The USC-Notre Dame game is always an anticipated battle regardless of the records or national rankings. 
Notre Dame Stadium since 1981. The Irish were under the leadership of Gerry Faust, who was in the midst of his first sea­son, when USC squeezed out a victory over the Irish, 14-7. 
Davie maintains this rivalry is like no others. "I think what makes this dif­ferent is just the location of the schools and just the long, long tradition. Just the West Coast, you know, coming in to play a Midwestern team.... But this game is the whole country. You have got players who were recruited from all different corners of the country and certainly fans from all corners of the country." 
"I love playing in South Bend," Robinson said. "It's not easy and I rec­ognize that, but I've always felt an excitement there, especially when you win in an environment like that. It's memorable." 
Oftentimes you hear amongst stu­dents and fans that the football season is not worth anything anymore. Both Robinson and Davie feel the opposite. This game is crucial for both teams. The rivalry, the history, and the mys­tique surrounding this series is second to none. This could be the turning point for Davie and Co. in a season of lackluster play, but Robinson and the Trojans are in search of bragging rights. They want nothing more than back-to-hack defeats of Notre Dame, which hasn't happened since 1982. 
• THE IRISH INSIDER STAFF 
Editor: Mike Day Associate Editor: Betsy Baker Assistant Editors: Joe Cavato, Kathleen Lopez, Brian Reinthaler Graphic Design: Tom Roland, Jon King Statistician: Jim Belden Production: Mark DeBoy Cover: Tom Roland, Katie Kroener 

come offand the spotlight dims . .. 
-~z~~~~:qr~y~~:~~~~~------------­
To ORDER CALL 1·800-647 -4641 TOLL FREE OR FAX YOUR ORDER TO 219-631-9754 MON.-FRl. 9 AM TO 9 PM 
• A portion of the proceeds from the sale of this calendar will go to support charity. For wholesale information... Onyx Publishing P.O. Box 763 Notre Dame, IN 46556-90763 1.800.923. 7581 



Friday, October 17, 1997 Irish Insider • THE TEAMS page 5 




The Observer/Brandon Candura 
Joey Goodspeed was moved to inside linebacker. 
SPLIT END 
No. Name Pas. HI. Wt. YR 1 Deke Cooper FS 6-3 209 so 
1 Daylon McCutcheonCB 5·11 175 JR 2 Benny Guilbeaux ss 6-1 207 JR 
&·Johnson 
2 Darnell Lacy s 6-3 195 so 

3 Ron Powlus QB 6-3 225 SR 
9-Nelson 
2 Rod Perry Jr WR 5-10 180 FR

CORNERBACK 
3 Billy Miller WR 6-4 210 JR4 Kory Minor OLB 6-1 234 JR 

TAILBAGK 42-Kelly 
4 John Fox QB 6·4 205 so5 A'jani Sanders ss 5-11 188 JR 

23-Denson 14·Hill 
4 Mark Cusano LB 6-2 225 JR6 Malcolm Johnson SE 6-5 213 SR 

32-Stokes 

5 Rodney Sermons FB 6·0 210 SR 8 Eric Chappell QB 6-4 213 so 
7 Jarious Jackson QB 6-0 219 JR 
6 Antuan Simmons LB/S 5-11 185 FR 9 Raki Nelson FL 5-11 189 so 
7 Chad Morton s 5-8 180 so 10 Deveron Harper CB 5-11 185 so 
8 Rashard Cook s 6-0 200 JR 11 Jay Johnson SE 6-0 186 so 
9 Quincy Woods QB 6·1 185 so 12 Scott Cengia K 5-10 181 SR 
9 Zeke Moreno LB 6-3 240 FR 
1 0 Jason Steen DE 6·4 220 FR
FULLBACK

12 Mario Strayhorn OLB 6-1 214 JR 
11 Darryl Knight s 6-2 195 FR 14 Ivory Covington CB 5-10 169 SR 
33-Spencer

13 Jimmy Friday ILB 6-2 227 JR 
11 Adam Rendon PK 6-2 205 JR
28--Barry 
13 Kris Richard CB 6·0 170 FR15 Allen Rossum CB 5-8 179 SR 

.•· 
14 Mike Van RaaphorstQB 6·5 220 FR 17 Hunter Smith p 6-2 210 .JR 
16 Zak Kustok QB 6-2 190 FR 
15 Junior Rickman TE 6·4 245 SR 18 Cikai Champion SE 5-10 183 'sR 
16 Matt Dalton QB 6·2 185 FR p

17 Jim Wren 6-0 220 SR 19 Jim Sanson K 5-9 179 so 
18 Joey Getherall WR 5-9 165 FR 
18 R. Jay Soward WR 5-11 175 so 19 Wayne Gunn OLB 6-2 210 JR 
19 Adam Abrams PK 5-9 185 JR 20 Kevin Kopka K 5-7 214 JR 
19 Stanley Guyness WR 6-2 185 FR 20 Byron Joyner FS 6-1 188 JR 
21 Ken Haslip CB 5-10 160 JA 21 Shannon Stephens FL 5-10 175 JR 
21 Malaefou MacKenzieTB 6-0 210 FR 22 Jay Vickers TB 5-11 218 so 
22 David Gibson LB/S 6-2 215 so 23 Autry Denson TB 5-10 184 JR 
23 Anthony Volsan CB 5-10 170 SR 
24 Delon Washington TB 5·11 205 SR24 Ty Goode CB 5-11 184 SR 

25 Mike Bastianelli WR 6·1 195 JR 26 Lee Lafayette CB 5-9 189 so 
25 Tony Driver TB 6-3 205 FR 
26 Eric Reese TB 5-11 185 FR 27 Bobbie Howard ILB 5-10 228 JR 
27 Jabari Jackson TB 6·2 215 JR 28 Ken Barry FB 6-0 221 SR 
28 Charlie Landrigan FB 6-0 210 FR 
29 Frank Carter s 6-0 185 so29 Cooper Rego TB 5-9 185 FR 

FLANKER 
30 LaVale Woods FB(fB5-7 220 SR30 Jarvis Edison FS 6-4 221 SR 

88-Brown 
31 lfeanyl Ohalete LB/S 6-2 205 FR31 Darcey Levy RB 6-2 195 FR 

18--Getheral 

34 Ryan Tyiska LB 6-2 220 SR 33 Jamie Spencer FB 6-1 248 JR 
32 Clement Stokes TB 6-0 205 SR 
35 Petros Papadakis TB 6-0 205 so 34 Ronnie Nicks ILB 6-0 220 so 
36 Chris Reyes s 6-0 205 so 35 Robert Phelps CB 6-0 189 SR 
36 Miguel Marco WRIS 5-11 185 FR 

37 David Bell PK 6-1 200 so 36 Tim Lynch CB 5-9 177 SR 
p

36 Chris Wachtel 5-11 207 SR 
37 Rick Luce s 5·11 185 JR 37 Ron Israel DB 6-1 175 FR 
38 Mike MacGillivray P/PK 5-10 205 FR 37 Kevin Rice FB s-o· 200 SR 
38 Danny Bravo s 6-0 205 FR 38 Brock Williams CB 5-11 175 FR 
li-i 
I 
39 Marvin Powell Ill TE 6·2 235 JR 

40 Rob Aubrey LB 6-3 235 JR 39 Anthony Denman LB 6-3 205 FR 
38 Paul Grimm CB 5-9 170 SR 
41 Antoinne Harris CB 5-8 170 so 40 Jason Murray FB 6-2 235 FR 
41 Rocky Brown WR 5-11 175 JR 40 Brendan Farrell ss 5-11 215 so 42 Brian Kelly CB 6-1 190 SR 41 Joe Ferrer OLB 6-2 230 so 
43 Grant Pearsall LB/S 6-1 210 SR 
44 Sultan Abdui-MalikDE 6-3 225 FR42 Antwoine Wellington ILB 6-0 237 so 

45 Henry Wallace FB 6·2 210 FR 45 Joey Goodspeed FB 6-0 225 so 
44 Grant Irons ILB 6-5 225 FR 
46 Ted lacenda FB 6-0 225 FR 

4 7 Jahl Johnson TB 5-7 185 JR 46 Kevin Dansby LB 6-2 210 FR 
45 Chris McCarthy K 5-11 205 SR 
47 Mathieu Faltys s 6-2 210 FR 47 Bill Mitoulas OLB 6-1 225 SR 
48 Brennan Ochs FB 6-1 205 FR 48 Johnathan Herbert WR 5-11 194 so 
I 

CORNERBACK 
49 Ryan Shapiro FB 6-0 230 FR
TAILBACK 24-Goode 

50 Eric Denmon c 6-2 260 so 50 David Payne c 6-0 281 JR 
49 Joe Thomas ILB 6-2 223 JR 
14·Covington 
51 Jason Grain OG 6-5 310 so 51 Melvin Dansby DE 6-4 276 SR 
52 Dennis Tolbert DT 6·2 260 SR 52 Alex Mueller OG 6-6 270 JR 
lr.:b 
53 Jonathan Mosley LB 6-0 225 SR 

55 Chris Claiborne LB 6·3 250 so 54 Luke Petitgout OT 6-5 287 SR 
53 Lamont Bryant OLB 6-3 243 JR 56 Jonathan HimebauchC 6-3 295 SR 
57 Aaron Williams DE/DT6-4 270 so 56 Kurt Belisle DE 6-2 266 SR 
55 Shelton Jordan DE 6-3 241 JR 
59 Rocky Seta s 5-11 200 JR 57 Rick Kaczenski c 6-4 258 SR 
61 Matt McShane c 6·5 285 so 58 Brendan O'Connor OG 6-2 294 so 
FULLBACK ~­

62 David Pratchard OG 6-5 290 JR 58 Mike Burgdorf TE 6-0 205 JR 
5-Sermans 
67 Chris Brymer OG 6-3 310 SR 

68 Brent McCaffrey OT 6-5 265 FR 60 Scott Fagan OLB 6-2 219 so 
59 Matthew Kunz ILB 6-0 215 SR 
70 Mike Whitcanack OT 6-7 305 FR 

71 Travis Claridge OG 6-6 300 so 84 John Merandi c 6-3 272 so 
~~.

62 Casey Robin OL 6-7 285 FR 
72 Todd Keneley DT 6·0 260 JR 65 Anthony Brannan ss 5-11 194 so 
73 Phalen Pounds OT 6-7 325 SR 66 JW Jordan OL 6-1 284 FR 
74 Ken Bowen OT 6-8 330 JR 

75 Faaesea Mailo OT/OG 6·5 330 so 70 Tim Ridder OG 6-7 298 JR 
67 John Wagner OT 6-7 320 JR 
76 Joel Sugg OT 6-6 275 FR 

77 Trevor Roberts OG 6-4 305 FR 72 Leon Hires OG 6-4 287 so 
71 Jerry Wisne OG 6-6 295 JR 
78 Rome Douglas OT 6-7 300 JR 73 Mike Doughty OT 6-7 303 SR 
79 Grant Boelter OT/OG 6·5 315 SR 74 Rob Mowl OG 6-5 294 so 
80 Larry Parker WR 6-2 195 SR 75 Chris Clevenger OT 6-8 312 SR 
81 Antoine Harris TE 6-4 220 FR 76 Kurt Vollers OL 6-7 275 FR 
RIGHT TACKLE 

82 Gu~ot Dhaliwal TE 6-3 230 JR 77 Brad Williams DE 6-4 266 so 
74-Bowen 

83 Troy Garner WR 6·3 200 FR 78 Jon Spickelmier c 6-3 274 SR 
68·McCaffrey 

84 Jeff Daley TE 6-4 235 SR 79 Mike Rosenthal OG 6-7 315 JR 
85 Dylan Weiss WR 5-10 170 FR 80 Justin Smith WR 6-1 185 FR 
66 Gerard Khoro21an TE 6-5 245 so 81 Lewis Dawson SE 5-11 186 so 
87 Kevin Mclaughlin WR 6·3 205 FR 82 Mike Gandy TE 6-5 264 so 
TIGHT END 
68 George Perry DE 6-5 260 SR
83-Keur 

88-Rance . STRONG 
89 Lonnie Ford TE 6-3 220 FR 84 Mike Denvir TE 6-4 243 SR 
83 Justin Orr FL 6-2 233 SR 
SAFETY 

90 Ryan Nielsen DE 6·5 235 FR 85 Antwon Jones NG 6-3 267 JR 
2-Guilbeaux 

91 Bobby DeMars LB 6-4 235 FR 86 Dan O'Leary TE 6-4 243 so 
5-Sanders 

92 Kori Dickerson DE 6-4 215 FR 87 Jabari Holloway TE 6-4 235 FR 
93 Tommie TownsendDT 6-4 255 FR 88 Bobby Brown FL 6-3 185 JR 
94 Pat Swanson TEISNP 6-4 235 so 90 Lance Legree NG 6-1 271 so 
95 Marc Matlock DT 6-5 280 JR 91 N. VanHook-Drucker DE 6-2 228 so 
96 S. Abdui-Shaheed DE 6-4 260 FR 

97 Cedric Jefferson DT 6-2 280 SR 93 B.J. Scott DE 6-3 267 so 
92 Bryan Mulvena LB 6-2 225 JR 
98 Carl Colley TE 6-4 230 FR 94 Andy Wisne DL 6-5 255 FR 
99 Steve Davis DT 6-2 280 SR 95 Corey Bennett NG 6-1 253 SR 
99 Ennis Davis DT 6-4 295 FR 96 Jim Jones NG 6-2 280 so 97 Eric Glass DT 6-4 220 so 98 John Teasdale TE 6-6 255 FR 99 Jason Ching DE 6-3 235 so 



1st season at Notre Dame 
Career record: 2-4 At Notre Dame: 2-4 Against Southern Cal: 0-0 
Spencer's return to good hnalth has given the Irish the opportunity to move backup Joey Goodspeed to inside linebacker. Aftnr missing the bulk of the first six games, tho 6-foot-1, 248-pound Spencer appeared to regain his old form last Saturday, rushing for a 33-yard touchdown late in the third quarter at Pittsburgh. 
One of the chief reasons for Notre Damn's offensive demise this season has been the inef­foctive play at the fullback position. In six games, Irish fullbacks have combined for just 196 yards. Spencer hopes to give the Irish an option they've been missing on Saturday. 
Jamie Spencer is back in top playing form. 
Against Notre Dame: 7-3-1 



. i 

Friday, October 17, 1997 

The Observer/Brandon Candura 

Chris Howard and the Wolverines will put their undefeated record on the line when they host conference 
foe No. 15 Iowa in a pivotal Big Ten battle. 
Denson. Banks should reach his mark regardless. Also, Wolverine cornerback Charles Woodson will draw the assign­ment of covering pre-season Heisman hopeful Tim Dwight. 

This game presents an inter­esting Big 12 showdown 
between relative unknowns. The Aggies can prove that they 
12. Michigan State 5-0 1058 11 
are, in fact, for real with a win on homecoming week in 
13. Washington St. 5-0 958 12 Manhattan. They also need a 14. Texas A&M 5-0 827 15 victory to keep pace with sur­
15. Iowa 4-1 703 17
prising Oklahoma State in the South division of the confer­16. Oklahoma St. 6-0 665 20 ence. 
17. UCLA 4-2 637 18 
Kansas State's chances to 
18. Air Force 7-0 516 19
represent the North division in the Big 12 championship game 
19. Georgia 4-1 446 13 are pretty slim at the moment, 
20. Kansas State 4-1 388 22
but that will not prevent quar­terback Michael Bishop and 21. Georgia Tech 4-1 281 25 the Wildcats from getting fired 
22. Virginia Tech 5-1 274 23 up to spoil A&M's undefeated 
23. West Virginia 5-1 182
season. Bishop took to the ground 24. Wisconsin 6-1 134 last weekend against Missouri 
25. Stanford 4-2 119 16
and racked up 194 rushing 
OTHERS RECEIVING VOTES: Arizona State 69. New Mexico 57,
yards on his own. The Aggies 
Toledo 46, Purdue 38, Wyoming 26, Virginia 20, Alabama 15,
held Kansas State to just 39 
Colorado 15, Brigham Young 14, Miami, OH 11, Ohio 9, Clemson 8,
yards rushing in last year's 
Marshall 8, Southern Mississippi 5, Colorado State 4, Rice 4,
contest, so it should be inter­
North Carolina State 2.
esting to see how they attempt 
to contain Bishop this Saturday. 
TEAM 

1. Penn State (51) 2. Nebraska (14) 
3. 
Florida State (3) 

4. 
N. Carolina (2) 

5. 
Michigan 

6. 
Auburn 7.· Florida 


8. 
LSU 


9. 
Tennessee 

10. 
Washington 


11 . Ohio State RECORD 5-0 5-0 5-0 6-0 5-0 6-0 5-1 5-1 4-1 4-1 5-1 
POINTS 
1724 1668 1603 1521 1490 1366 1280 1199 1126 1121 1113 
PREV 2 3 4 5 6 8 1 
14 
9 
10 
7 

-
~..~1 ,---:---.I. I 0 .-~' 0 o .-. --.-.~, .-,-~~ ---~----:-~. --, o -·---:--o .--: .-. ~
o 0 o .-, -. • ,-;-,,:-;-',·-:-.~~~---:--:----:---, .~. o 
' ... ' ' . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ' . . . . . . . ' . . ' . . . 0. . . . . . . . . . . ... 0. . . . ' 
. . . . ... ' .. 

Large Hand,.tossed pizza ,.. . with one free topping ...... :-....__J~~ 10 breadsticks 2 dips , 2 liter Coke p~oducf' 
-
We accept Credit Cards 
Mastercard American Express Discover Visa 







