------------~------------------~-­
• Speaking up... Road-triPPina to Michiaan? 
Irish Soccer 
Accent gives tips on how to get 
Andrew Aris will help the Irish
Charles Rice tells the Notre Dame com­
there and what to do when you 
defend their third-place ranking in the
munity to recognize the Church's belief 
arrive as well as tons of info about 
Big East this weekend in home game
that homosexual orientation is a disorder. 
the university. 
play. 
p. 8 p. 10 & 11 
Back Page 

Friday, September 26, 1997 • Vol. XXXI No. 25 
THE INDEPENDENf NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINf MARY'S 


Friday Feature 
1976 by Father Bob Pelton, for­mer Notre Dame theology pro­fessor, upon his return from Chile as a way of renewing priests to the theological and doctrine changes following the Vatican II conference," said Father Eugene Lauer, the direc­tor of the CCFM. 
The curriculum at the center consists of 35 required courses in seven fields, including social issues and modern spirituality. 
"We start out with the funda­mental, basic courses," Lauer said. "Then we move towards the more applied courses, such as how to deal with the subject of AIDS and other social con­cerns. About 40 percent of our faculty comes from the University. The other 60 percent is flown in from other institu­tions and organizations." 
Each class spans two to three days and demands four to 13 hours worth of time spent in lec­tures. 
"You can tell that a lot of the classes that we are taking are 
see CCFM I page 4 

Coalition Council aims to clearly outline goals 
By CHRISTOPHER SHIPLEY 
News Writer 
Direction and organization were the issues at the table last night as executive off1cers from the multicultural clubs around campus gathered for the second Coalition Council. 
Most of the discussion for the evening meeting centered around creating a mission statement which would clearly outline the goals of the Coalition Council. Kevin Huie, assistant director of the Office of Multicultural Student Affairs, spearheaded the dis­cussion. 
Huie suggested coalition col­laboration and establishing the council's reputation through­out the University as two clear goals for the current academic school year. 
"We need to represent our 
organizations and the tradi­tionally underrepresented on this campus," Huie comment­ed. "This needs to be a discus­sion group." 
Several of the council mem­bers suggested that a system of event networking, program­ming, and co-sponsorship of student events would most effectively accomplish this purpose. 
Huie agreed, ..but warned 
that the council must not restrict itself when dealings with the other organizations of the University. 
"It's a wonderful opportunity to network and get ideas, but that shouldn't be the only goal," Huie stated. "We can all go to the meetings with the Student Union Board, Academic Affairs, Residence Life, and the hall commission-
see COALITION I page 6 


Students complain about food 
By SARAH J. HILTZ 
News Writer 
With the completion of West Quad dormitories and the result­ing reconstruction of South Dining I I all, dining hall crowds have been abnormally large, and students are not happy about it. 
'It's going to get 
worse before it gets better. They haven't seen anything yet.' 
Dave Prentkowski 
director ofFood Services 
"After 6:30 p.m., South is a mob scene," said junior Allison Dobson. 
But director of food services Dave Prentkowski emphasized that students should not be com­plaining -yet. 
"It's going to get worse before it gets better. They haven't seen anything yet," Prentkowski said. 
To accommodate the con­struction, which will ultimately cost more than $10 million, South will switch to a buffet for­mat after October break. At that point, South will have no func­tional kitchen, and all food will be transported from the kitchens of North Dining Hall. Food will be driven over several times throughout the day, ensuring that food bound for South will be fresh and hot. 
see DINING I page 4 

Suggested merger of 1971 still in SMC memory 
h'ditor's Note: This is the fourth in a Jour-part series 
examining relations between 
the Notre Dame and Saint 
Mary's campuses and the 
aspects that strengthen or 
shatter the stereotypes. 
By LORI ALLEN Saint Mary's Editor 
Saint Mary's College almost lost its id1mtity as a separate institution 26 years ago. A suggested merger in 1971 would have unified the College and the University of Notre Dame into one co-educational institution founded by the same religious community. 
But. before the two schools could merge and amongst great controversy. the admin­istrators at Saint Mary's College decided against it and the merger fell through. 
Saint Mary's would remain an all-women's college, and 
Notre Dame would begin the process of becoming co-educa­tional. 
On Dec. 1, 1971, Father Theodore Hesburgh officially announced that Notre Dame would admit women the next fall. 
"We had been through two years of unsuccessful attempts to charm the Saint Mary's Sisters [of the Holy Cross]. but in the end we sat down togeth­er and I said, 'You want to marry us, but you don't want to take our name or live with us.' The sisters agreed, and we decided to make Notre Dame co-educational some other way," said Hesburgh in a 1987 interview with The Observer. 
Some other way inevitably affected enrollment at Saint Mary's College. 
In 1972, 200 of the 240 Notre Dame transfer students were from Saint Mary's, and enrollment at Saint Mary's decreased by 20 percent. 

"When the negotiations broke down, students were boycotting classes and were very upset," said Gail Mandell, professor of Humanistic Studies at Saint Mary's College. "The morale dropped significantly." 
Many Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students were agitated about the two schools going their own separate ways. A large number of Saint Mary's students had majors offered only at Notre Dame, and found themselves caught more than halfway through their college careers with the choice of either changing their majors or transferring to Notre Dame. 

"It was a time full of excite­ment and confusion. Excitement for the possibili­ties, confusion about the dynamics of what was going on," said Susan Welte, the stu­dent body president at Saint Mary's in 1972-73. 
"For me, at the time, it was 'What's going to happen with my friends? Are they going to go over to Notre Dame? And what's going to happen when they begin admitting on their own? We're just right across the street from this institution that's now gone co-ed," said Welte in a South Bend Tribune interview. 
What was uncertain was the way the women of Notre Dame would interact with those of Saint Mary's. 
It was feared that there would be jealousy. It was feared that there would be competition. What resulted 
was both. 
The women of Saint Mary's had to get used to having "sis­ters" across the street, and the women of Notre Dame had to adjust to attending a male­dominated institution. 
As the years passed and Notre Dame grew comfortable with its role as a coeducational institution, Saint Mary's strengthened as well. increas­ing enrollment steadily over time. 
Since then both schools have prospered independently, but not without prevailing stereo­types. 
The women of Notre Dame began to establish their own traditions, and Saint Mary's did as well, in the process los­ing touch with one another as women. 
After Notre Dame became co-ed the Saint Mary's College administration spent an entire 
see MERGER I page 4 

~~~~-~~-------­
• INSIOE COLUMN 

Cheers To What? 
I know Nora Meany's Colleen GaughanInside Column this past 
Assistant Viewpoint 
Wednesday entitled 
Editor
"Cheers ... I Think" was 
written in pure jest and 

she intended only to entertain, but I think she 
should know she offended a lot of people who 
are-too shy to speak up. 
I am not shy. 

For those of you who don't particularly wish 
to dig through a recycle bin to understand 
what I'm talking about, allow me to refresh 
your memory. Nora was expressing her satiri­
cally deep concern for her friend's social life 
because this friend had made a choice to 
abstain from drinking. even on her coveted 
21st birthday. 

In humor, she presented stereotypical rea­
sons for such a decision, including alcoholism, 
anorexia. manic-depression. and poverty. She 
was way out of line. These are very serious 
issues that hit home to a lot of people, not 
wounding ammunition for a wry piece of jour­
nalism. My father is a poverty-stricken alco­
holic, my brother is a manic-depressive, and I 
just happen to be recovering from a long bat­
tle with anorexia. It was not exactly pleasant 
to be reminded in such a thoughtless context. 
Please tell me, just what is wrong with cloud­
ing her ears with a little sensitivity? 
I don't care how funny people think they 
are or how amusing this kind of humor can 
be; alcoholism and its painful effects are by 
no means a laughing matter. 
More students than anyone realizes have 
made thoughtful decisions not to drink, choic­
es that deserve the utmost respect. Do you 
think it's easy to say no? Do you think these 
individuals enjoy the discomfort of standing 
out in a social setting? Nora asked why any­
one would want to subject themselves to this 
kind of humiliation. They could ask her the 
same. 

She wanted to know what we would think if 
someone who just decided one day to stop 
drinking. Here's an answer: Amen! That's one 
less drunk driver, or drunk friend, or drunk 
brother, or drunk roommate to worry about. 
What's the point of going out if you're not 
going to drink?! Getting away, kickin' off your 
shoes, dancing, meeting people, releasing 
tension, and, for some, even expanding your 
mind without the pressures of a classroom. 
Imagine that. None of these things require 
alcohol for enjoyment, and if they do for you, 
that's pretty sad. 

There is so much more to this city than 
sleazy, !-can't-breathe-in-here bars. Look 
around once in awhile. I too am guilty of 
carelessly tossing aside that 101 Fun Things 
To Do in South Bend book, but I was thumb­
ing through it the other day, and there's some 
really good stuff in there! And what is with 
our incessant need to be entertained, any­
way? Anyone ever heard of Conversation?! 
Doing shots on your 21st is NOT a rite of 
passage, and I truly pity those who believe it 
is. You can have just as good a time with a 
few margaritas or black Russians, and you 
wouldn't have to spend the night with your 
porcelain god. Why do we continually stigma­
tize others who don't always follow the crowd 
and comply with our complacency? Are we 
really that afraid of being ourselves? 
I don't know yet what legacy I will pass on 
to my children, but at least I know I will 
remember it. This isn't for Nora and her 
humor. This is for the people who really feel 
the way she described. Don't spit on people's 
choices. 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
• Too;w's STAFF  
News  
Michelle Krupa  Graphics  
Nicole Swartzentruber  Peter Cilella  
Sports  Production  
Allison Krilla  Mark DeBoy  
Viewpoint  Michelle Krupa  
Kelly Brooks  Lab Tech  
Accent  Kevin Dalum  
Joey Crawford  
Friday 70 52 Saturday ~ 73 54 Sunday ~ 68 51 Monday ~ 66 48 


The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacarion periods. The Observer is a member of rhe Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
• WORLD AT A GLANCE 
Hurricane smacks Baja California 
SAN QUINTIN. Mexico state in Mexico and then into southwest-Hurricane Nora was downgraded to a Hurricane Nora ern Arizona later. tropical storm today after pummeling As of 5 a.m. EDT An isolated tornado or two is possible
'" 1 d s 24 Position: 22.9'N, 114.7'W 
BaJ·a CaIifornia with high winds and ..ewes av, epr. later today over soutl1wnsterr1 and
Moving: NNW at 13 mph · heavy rain. Nora was headed toward 250,miles sustained winds: 85 mph south-central Arizona, the center said. the U.S. Southwest, where people hur-'i!50km Gusts at: 105 mph Forecasters predicted up to 8 inches of ried to fill sandbags and stockpile 'Cf··~ . " ·---··· rain for the Yuma region -double the emergency supplies. roJ. , . _ ... J·'"~'·,,X.)··· area's average annual rainfall. 
Nora was downgraded when its sus-;>\\,_ ··,.: -·-. .· Nora hit the Baja California peninsula tained winds dropped to 70 mph, and Baj!i'~ :;;., MEXICO.,· r• early today near Punta Eugenia. about forecasters said further weakening is Carfom~\ t,, f) G midway down the 800-mile-long coast-expected as it moves up the Gulf of • '~c~tsan Lucas j f line. California. ~ ) '\ f ('''-Sea swells were estimated at 12 feet 
At 2 p.m. EDT, Nora was about. 65 ~ i.-.,. \ ... y-·l ,~{ and winds at 60 mph at Bahia Tortugas. 
0
miles south of Yuma, Ariz., and moving te• ·'-.,~.:_xico Cit~ ·l. 11 a village on Punta Eugenia, said witness nforth at h28 mph with sustained winds Paciftc Ocea11 '··v"J:M.'·..,-,·.:-_ .<.~:... Huben Garcia. 
o 65 mp . ...· . "At the moment, there there is a lot of A gradual turn toward the north-l14" • 2.. we rain," Garcia said by telephone.
90, northeast was expected during the next People living in homes scattered 12 to 24 hours, the U.S. Hurricane Center in Miami said. around the peninsula gathered in town for safety, he The center of Nora will likely move into northern Sonora said. 
108 10 
British editors tackle reforms 
LONDON 

No more paparazzi pictures. No more gangs of reporters outside people's homes. No payments to children for stories. Reacting to the uproar over press intrusion following the death of Princess Diana, the Press Complaints Commission asked editors Thursday to voluntarily adopt "the toughest set of industry regulations anywhere in 


Europe." "Motorbike chases, stalking and hounding are unacceptable -and editors who carry pictures obtained by them will be subjected to the severest censure," said the commission's chairman, Lord Wakeham. "I have found that editors across the industry have been of the same mind -times have changed -and we want to change with them," he said in outlining the new code at a news conference. However, work continued on details of the code, including con!licts between an "overriding public interest" and personal privacy -questions that are acute in coverage of Britain's royal family and gov­ernment officials. 
Infants learn language in crib 
WASHINGTON 

Better watch your language around the cradle. Babies as young as 8 months can hear and remember words ­good and bad -researchers have discovered. "Little ears are listening," says Peter Jusczyk of Johns Hopkins University. Jusczyk said new research shows that read­ing to children at such an early age, even if they don't seem to understand, can start the process of learning language. "As you are sitting there reading, the child is learning something about sound patterns of words," he said. "That is important because they learn how words are formed and it helps them to segment sound patterns out of speech." The conclusion is based on experiments in which infants listened repeatedly to three recorded stories. Two weeks later, the babies' recognition of words from those stories was compared against words that were not in the stories. Jusczyk said it was clear the infants recognized the story words. A report on the study will be published Friday in the journal Science. "This is important work," said Hobin Chapman, a language­learning researcher at the University of Wisconsin, Madison. "It advances the findings of earlier work that showed children do attend to the sounds of language ... and pick out those that are familiar." She said the stud­ies show that "a lot of language learning is happening in the first year of life. 
Companies race to market drug 
NEWYOHK 
Barbara Zimmerman stumbled ofT a New Jersey curb and into a race between drug makers dashing to be the first to replace the most widely prescribed drug in the nation: estrogen. While nursing her broken ankle. the retired jewelry designer discovered she had osteoporo­sis. But she balked at taking estrogen -the conventional treatment for the bone-thinning disease -when her doctor warned it could raise her risk of breast cancer. "We have a lot of cancer in our family and I was afraid to take estrogen," said Mrs. Zimmerman, 70, of Tenany. 
N.J. "It was just scary to me." Instead, two years after her fall, Mrs. Zimmerman is wrapping up her stint as a research subject in a test of Eli Lilly's drug, raloxifene. Researchers expect the drug to be the first "anti-estro­gen" on the market. It would be given instead of estro­gen for women who have gone through menopause. If these new drugs work, women would be able to protect their bones and hearts without increasing their chanc!)S of breast cancer. 
Millionaire victim of botched plot 
NEW YOHK 
A scheme to abduct and rob New Jersey millionaire Nelson Gross gave three teens enough cash for a spend­ing spree as well as a huge problem: what to do with Gross. Authorities charged Thursday that their solution was to butcher Gross, 65 -a one-time federal prosecu­tor and political power broker turned restaurateur ­then dump his body on the densely wooded banks of the Hudson Hiver only blocks from their Manhattan homes. Afterward, the three allegedly used his money to buy two used cars off the street, a motorcycle and jewelry. The suspects also openly talked about the crime. and a man who heard them tipped off a detective, authorities said. A federal judge ordered one of the teens, Anthony "Alex" Estevns, 18, held without bail Thursday on charges of kidnapping and conspiracy to kidnap. Esteves. who could face the death penalty, hung his head throughout the brief court appearance as family and friends, some in tears, looked on. "I love you. Alex!" a young woman in the second row called out as he was led away. llis court-appointed defense lawyer, Isabelle Kirshner, said her client was "very upset. ... lie's a little overwhelmed." Charges against two of Esteves' friends. Christian Velez, 17, and Alex Grullion. 17, were not made public because they are juveniles. 
• SOUTH BEND WEATHER • NATIONAL WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend l.<'orecast AccuWeather® forecust for daytime conditions nnd high temperatures 
The AccuWeather® forecast lor noon, Friday, Sept. 26. 
Lines separate high temperature zones for the day. 
_,/-·
i'',,,........ 
H L 

-y--"T"" 
COLD WARM STATIONARY 
C 1997 AccuWeather. Inc. 

Pressure 
H L m LSI [Til 0 . GS1 8 {) ~ ce::J.

Tuesday ···~ 63 46
( . 

HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T·STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT CLOUDY CLOUDY
,l> ..y....··'-..., 

VIR A5SOCIB/Bc1 Press 

.· .· 

Atlanta 75 60 Dallas 85 60 New Orleans 82 68 Baltimore 74 55 Denver 81 52 New York 72 59 Boston 67 56 Los Angeles 87 70 Philadelphia 73 54

4,<J.Q9.Q,Q {) ~ u 
Chicago 72 52 Miami 88 78 Phoenix 93 77
Showers T-storms Ram Flurries Snow Ice Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy 
Via Associated Press GraphicsNel 
Columbus 71 50 Minneapolis 80 51 St. Louis 78 52 
page 2  The Observer • INSIDE  Friday, September 26, 1997  


----------~--~­
Friday, September 26, 1997 
The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS page 3 

Johnsilon & Johnson


ND chef fights world hunger 

By JOELLE FARMER 
News Writer 
"No more hunger in America. No more hungry children." 
Notre Dame's executive chef, Denis Ellis, and his colleagues chanted these words this last week from the Capitol steps while marching on Washington, D.C. As a participant in the Childhood Hunger Forum, Ellis is doing his part to holp alleviate world hunger. 
"Nobody wants to believe there's hunger. Politicians are shying away from the issue," Ellis said. For this reason, he and others traveled to the nation's capital to further expose the problem of hunger. 
The Childhood Hunger Forum was sponsored by thP American Culinary Federation. Ellis is one of more than 40,000 members of ACF and of The Chef and the Child Foundation, the charitable arm of the ACF. 
Through these organizations Ellis, with chefs across the country, volunteers his time and knowledge to develop ways to save starving chil­dren. According to Ellis, the foundation does this through education, experimentation, and political involvement. 
During last week's forum, Ellis led a team of chPfs to demonstrate the development of new recipes which are used in the United States and Third World countries to help in the fight against hunger. 
Using gleaned vegetables donated by Breedlove Dehydrated Foods, Ellis experiments with the food in order to formulate recipes for the hungry. Also, as chair of this committee. he perfects 
The University of Notre Dame Department of Music presents 
1\. SCHUBERT CELEBRATION 
with Guest Artists 
~t\:\"FOIID S\.L\i\:\" & Di\t·m DREIDI~N. 
baritone p1amst 

Schubert's Piano Music 
Sun., Sept. 28, 2:00 p.m. 
AnnenbergAuditorium 

Die schone Miillerin 
Tues., Sept. 30, 8:00 p.m. Hesburgh Library Auditorium 
For om: -.un..;..:n -·.'i>o General AJmission; $3 Students/Seniors For both concerts -$1 0 General Admission; $5 Students/Seniors Tickets available at the door or at the LaFortune Box Office. 
Ellis said that to equip children with the skills necessary to feed themselves, the foundation goes into schools to educate the chil­dren. 
Using a puppet named Chef Combo, the foundation's members teach the children what food is, where it came from, and various ways of how to prepare it. 
As National Childhood Hunger Day on Oct. 16 approaches, Ellis hopes that all Americans will unite against hunger. 
"We must not think that our steps are too small. There may be big splashes, (like National Childhood Hunger Day), but we must make small steps each day," Ellis said. 

recipes, making them both user and environmen­tally friendly. 
Practicality is key in Ellis' work. He prepares everything for one-kettle cooking, realizing that many homeless centers do not have the resources for much else. In making the recipes environmen­tally friendly Ellis takes into consideration the cleanliness of water and other supplies available to those who will be preparing the meals 
"It's not enough to just create a recipe. We must develop recipes indigenous to all the geo­graphic regions of the world," he said. 
The ultimate goal of Ellis and The Chef and the Child Foundation is to have a FEAST (Feed Every American Starving Today) rally, where the prob­lems of hunger will be brought to political light, on the White House lawn and eventually on the lawns of all world leaders. Ellis hopes that the first FEAST will be next year on the Florida gov­ernor's lawn. 1 
With the help of politicians, Ellis hopes that a Good Samaritan Bill that is on the House floor, offering a tax incentive to those companies which donate excess food to the hungry, will pass. As Ellis points out, over 96 billion pounds, 24 percent of prepared food, go to waste annually in the United States. 
According to the U.S. Census Bureau, more than 21 percent of children under age 18, and 25 per­cent of children under 6, are poor. This is twice the child poverty rate of any other industrial nation. About 4 million children in the U.S. under age 12 are hungry while another 9.6 million are at risk of hunger. 
According to the American Culinary Federation, 84 percent of children are expected to fend for 
themselves for at least one meal a 
day. 



grants biology department funds 
By MAITHEW QUINN 
News Writer 
Notre Dame has received a $264,000 commitment from 
Johnson &Johnson of New Brunswick, N.J., for research 
in the University's department of biological sciences. 
''We. are grateful to the people of Johnson & Johnson for 
this commitment and heartened by the generosity and 
imagination which gave rise to it," said University 
Presidi:mt Father Edward Malloy in a recent press release. 
~'Such l)Upport qot only helps us maintain an academic 
envi.tdlimen.t attractiVe to the very best scholars, but could 
also contribute to discoveries with splendidly beneficial 
applieations'fotall hUmankind:" 
The commitment. made by Johnson & Johnson's 
Focused Giving.Program, will support the research of 
David Hyde and Joseph O'Tousa, both associate professors 
olbiological sciences at Notre Dame. 
· Their project. titled "Characterization of RdgB's Role in 
tlleVfiirtebrate Visua,L~ystem,'' concerns a gene mutation 
which causes retinal disintegration in mice~ lt could signif· 
icantly incr~;~ase contemporary scientific understanding of 
the function of photoreceptors in all vertebrate animals 
and ()f hereditary retinal degeneration in human beings. 1 •··. 
:'What .1 am particularly pleased with is that the dona­
tion by Johnson & Johnson will allow us to do some signifi­
c~+ntworkwith Vfiirtebrate animals such as mice," O'Tousa 
e~plained. ''We were previously unable to do this to such 
an exy~pt. ..y. •.. .. ••.. "We are currently looking at a protein that is conserved 
ill the nervous system." he continued. "We will now be 
able td ril.ake a ¢()rr~latioli with respect to the signaling 
processes between vertebrate and invertebrate models. I 
believe we can discover new players in cell·signaling 
processes." 
Joh1lson &: Johnson;foun~ed in 1886, was the first com­
pany to produce germ-free medical products. Since the 
compapy's Focused Giving Program was established in 
1980 to stimulate biomedical research, it has awarded 
more than $25 million to researchers at universities, col­
leges and research institutions. 
"Johnson & Johnson is very pleased with the success of 
this program,'' said Robert Gussin, the company's corpo­
rate vice president for science and technology, in a recent 
press release, 
"We are achieving a significant expansion of our own 
scientific capabilities and opportunities through this net­
work, as well as enabling these researchers to pursue 
thei.t discoyery programs," he continued. "Tllis can only 
lead td more and better health care products in the 
future." 




at The Huddle 
7pm -1 am 
Sun.· Sat. 
10 pm • 1am 
Football Fri. and Sat. 


1-6902 
Free Delivery on Campus 
-----r----­
r l4'~i;~-; -I r 14" Lor~e 1 14" Lor~e ICheese P1zzo I I Cheese P1zzo I 1 Cheese P1zzo I 1 I with 1 Topping 1 I . with . I $3.99 I I I I Mult1ple Toppmgs 
I $4.99 I $5.99 Offer expires Fri., 10/16 I Offer expires Fri., 10/16 I Offer expires Fri., 10/16 
____ _,a _____
...11­




page 4 The Observer· CAMPUS NEWS Friday, September 26, I 997 
tion. them to eat at the North Dining Hall, and The program, one of eight of its kind in "It really is a renewal of the mind, body, has classes in Brownson Hall. the U.S., only lasts from Aug. 19 to Dec.

CCFM 
and spirit," he said. "When I first applied "The main advantage to being on cam­11, and has had over 1,800 participants in 
Put our ideas into action! 
Penn Tower Hotel
We the Future 2 

October 17 ·19, 1997
A CONVENTION ON NATIONAL ISSUES FOR YOUNG ADULTS 
Philadelphia, PA 

Applications and convention details are available on line at www.libertynet.org/-first For more information, e-mail or call toll free first@libertynet.org 888-FIRST96 
THE BOSTON CONSULTING GROUP 
Invites all interested students to attend a presentation by 
Marc Chapman 
Associate Recruiting Director, Chicago 
Speaking on "Strategy Consulting and the Associate" 
* * * 
Notre Dame Room, Morris Inn 
Wednesday, October 1 
6:00p.m. 

Reception to follow Casual Attire 
* * * 
Ifyou are unable to a/lend the presentation, please visit Caree; and Placement Services for more information about career opportunities with BCG 


Attention all 
H.U.G.S. 

Members! 
Dates for T.B. testing have been changed to Monday, September 29th and Thursday, October 2nd. The times are stillll-3 both days. 
continued from page 1 
semester overviews that they condense into a short couple of days," said Father Frank Kilcline, a participant from St. Patrick Church in Kokomo, Ind. 
"The program is a renewal, not just the­ologically, but spiritually as well. It helps to remind you of a lot of things that you have forgotten." 
Monsignor Paul Montoya, from Inglewood. Calif., agreed but added that the program included more than educa­for this they sent me information on diet­ing and keeping fit as well as the text­books." 
The participants take classes and meet on the newly renovated third floor of Brownson Hall. "About three months ago, the University renovated this area for us," Lauer said. "We used to live, cat, and have class in James Hall across the street. But Holy Cross College took that over this year for use by their students as a dorm." 
So now the center places its partici­pants in Notre Dame Apartments, allows pus is that we interact with the young people," Montoya said. "They have been nothing but kind to us. The reception that we get is great. We honestly feel like we are part of the student body. 
"Of course, when graduates of this pro­gram leave, they can relate better to the modern world," he added. "The things that are learned here can be carried forth to the ministries that people here partic­ipate in. We can go back and say to the graduates that we went to ND and we know where they are coming from." 
its 21 years. "There are only a handful of programs that arc casually mentioned by members of different ministries; this is one of them," Kilcline said. 
All participants must have 10 years of experience in Catholic ministry and a master's degn~e. or its equivalent in expe­rience. 
"This program is absolutely top-notch," Montoya said. "There is a real emphasis on academic updating of the participants as well as their spiritual and physical well-being." 

Merger 
continued from page 1 
year re-examining its mission and developing a plan for the future. Saint Mary's had been Notre Dame's sister school for more than 120 years and had decided that it wanted more. 
Saint Mary's would not just be Notre Dame's sister school, but would be its equal. 
"I think that the decision not to merge was the right deci­sion. The quality of the stu­dents has gone up, and I am not discouraged," said Sister Jean Kiene, professor of English at Saint Mary's College 

Dining 
continued from page 1 
North Dining Hall has also changed its format in response to the reduced number of stu­dents eating there this year. The south room. commonly referred to as the "Mexican room," has been closed to provide more room for staff. The food that was normally in that part is now in the middle room, adding to the congestion in the already crowd­ed section. 
"It's a debacle," said junior Doug Lovejoy about the reloca-
Get up off the couch! Put down the remote! Set the tap aside! 
who was teaching at the time the merger was called off. 
"I think that what we here at Saint Mary's do best is help students advance. We have a tremendous faculty dedicated to helping the individual," said Kiene. 
Today, women at Notre Dame make up 45 percent of the more than 7,800-member undergraduate population, nearly a 1-to-1 ratio. 
Both schools have come a long way, but have yet to refine the relationship with one another. 
As many people hope, maybe it can start now. 
The South Bend Tribune con­tributed to this report. 
tion. 
"It makes that middle place so much more crowded. And when you get Mexican food, the condi­ments are not right there like they used to be," added Lovejoy. 
Some students, including junior Brad Faircloth, claim that the quality of the food at both dining halls has deteriorated this year. 
"The pasta has been flaccid," said Faircloth. 
But Prentkowski emphasized that the quality of the food has not changed since last year. 
"Nothing has changed as far as food production," Prentkowski stated. 
Flip Side sponsors '80s dance Saturday 
By P. COLLEEN NUGENT 
Associate Saint Mary's News Editor 
This Saturday, Flip Side will be sponsoring an 80s dance. It will take place from 10 p.m. to 
1:30 a.m. in the LaFortune Ballroom. A $3 fcc will be charged at the door. 
Flip Side provides fun social activities that do not involve alcohol. This club is intendPd to serve the studP-nts who desire an evening of fun. games, and various activities, explained co-president Kevin Kiefer. 
"The biggest misconception about Flip Side," according to Kiefer, "is that we believe in prohibition. In reality, we just want to be able to have a good time without alcohol." 
Flip Side events provide a great chance to meet new peo­ple outside~ or the academic area, and many of the activi­ties are held as off-campus events. Trips to Chicago, roller-skating events and dances are just a few of the many different weekend activi­ties. 




Ducks, RabbitsJ!prechauns 
Experience the natural serenity qf North Shore Club, just minutes.from Notre Dame. 
• 
A wise investment for alumni, faculty and parents 

• 
More than 114 of our residents are part of the Notre Dame family • Waterfront views 

• 
Townhomes and condominiums from $89,000 


Come visit us at ;-~~'<-. 
North Shore Club ~~,~; 
Angela at the St. Joseph River • South Bend 
Furnished Models Open Daily 
Sat. & Sun. 12-5 p.m. • Mon.-Fri. 10 a.m.-6 p.m. 219-232-2002 • 800-404-4275 
Amsterdam • Atlanta • Auckland • Bangkok • Boston • Brussels • Budapest • Buenos Aires • Chicago • Dallas • DUsseldorf Fran~furt • Hamburg • Helsinki • Hong Kong • Jakarta • Kuala Lumpur • Lisbon • London • Los Angeles • Madrid • Melbournt> Milan • M~nterrey • Moscow • Mumbai • Munich • New York • Oslo • Paris • San Francisco • Sao Paulo • Seoul • Sh~ng-hai Smg~pore • Stockholm • Stuttgart • Sydney • Tokyo • Toronto • Vienna • Warsaw • Washington • ZUrich 
Friday, Seprember 26, 1997 
The Observer • INTERNATIONAL NEWS page 5 
• INDONESIA
• CUBA 
Haze disaster makes life hard 
By TIM DEAGLE 
Associated Press Writer 
Southeast Asian haze
...,.:...... : 
By ANITA SNOW >:0Mi~ ~lear whaihe meant. Associated Press Writcr Cuban prosecutor " ;t.. Van d~i\ Y:ee~ helo MEXICO CI'r~.TlJ.S.•based ~roup . 
An American charged witlf ,. Cuban Libecration F ... ··..····· l:lyattempting to stage an upris" contend b.e attempted 8£lveral ing against Fidel Castro is to times io 1996 to s an be tried Oct. 3 in Cuba, where uprising by he could face the death penaP .Castro literature ty, Castro's governmet1t\'tihg the rnateri announced Thursday. :;;(\1\,Molotov cocktails, .. 
The trial of Walter Van der Prosecutors also claim:, Veer, 52, was mentioned at der Veer was in possession the weekly Foreign Ministry a deface<l.•. Cuban flag, cam()U· news conference in Havana, flage ge~i'; and a U.S. rn. ·ry Cuba's official Prensa Latina. ba.ckpac~ at the timeo news agency said in a dispatch'" arrest; the government l(lttiros monitored here. to have 13 witnesses. %Ii•· 
Prensa Latina quoted m The trial comes istry spokesman Alej time in U.S Gonzalez as saying put1dtl,!a.ted by would "provide all legal botribiD.gs t,~at antees corresponding" overnment has 
u.s. citizen. It was not .S.-basedtl.xile ""n'''"'"" 
JAMBI, Indonesia 

The smoke is so thick it stings the eyes and burns the throat, making the sim­ple act of breathing a chore. It's impossible to see beyond 50 feet and the sun seems to have disappeared. 
All across Southeast Asia. people are struggling to cope with an unprecedent­ed ecological disaster caused by hundreds of for­est fires in Indonesia. 
The fires -many of them deliberately set as a cheap way of clearing land -have been burning for months, creating a cloud of smoke that covers an area more than half the size of the continental United States. 
Known as "the haze," it has made life miserable for millions of people, not only in Indonesia but also in five other countries where it has sent air pollution levels soaring: Malaysia, Brunei, Singapore, the Philippines and Thailand. 
The high-rise office buildings of Malaysia's capital, Kuala Lumpur, are barely visible. Some beach resorts in southern Thailand are blanketed. Airports across the region have been closed. Many schools have been shut down. 
But nowhere is the smoke worse than in this town of 300,000 on the Indonesian island of Sumatra. 
Jambi, 370 miles northwest of the Indonesian capital of Jakarta, is surrounded by a fire afternoon, the daylight is so dim that drivers must turn on their headlights. 

The scene is the same on the island of Borneo and in parts of Java and Sulawesi. 
The fires, many deliberately set by forestry and plantation companies, have blackened at least 740,000 acres. There are unconfirmed reports that the acreage burned is twice that number. 
To make matters worse, El Nino, an abnormal weather pat­tern over the Pacific Ocean, has brought on the worst drought in half a century, delaying mon­soon rains that could ease the situation. 

that has crept to within a few miles of the city. The forest undergrowth is alive with flames and with every hot, dry gust of wind, the sparks swirl high into the trees. 
In town, long lines of cough­ing patients wait outside doc­tors' clinics. Hospital wards are full. 
"I take cough medicine and wear a mask when I'm out­side," said Roy Pernihutay, an operator with the local tele­phone company. "But I still find it hard to breathe. My head feels dizzy." 
Smoke detectors have been switched off to keep them from ringing constantly. By early 
The Changing Status of Children in Latin America: 
Issues in Child Health and Children's Rights 
All sessions are open to the public. 
Academic Workshop 
Auditorium ofthe Hesburgh Center for International Studies 
Friday, September 26 

I. The Changing Face of Malnutrition in Latin America 
3:45 p.m.-4:45 p.m. . . . . . Overview of Malnutntwn m Latm Amenca 
5:00 p.m.-6:30p.m. . . . . Residual Undernutrition Issues: M1cronutnent Malnutntwn 
Saturday, September 27 

II. Feeding Practices and Environmental Sanitation 8:45 a.m.-9:45 a.m. Breastfeeding and Appropriate Complementary Feeding Practices 
10:00 a.m.-11 :00 a.m. Environmental Sanitation and Its Relation to Child Health 
III. Bridging Issues of Child Health and Juvenile Rights 11 :30 a.m.-12:30 p.m. The Agendas and Priorities of International Agencies Working with Children and Children's Issues 
2:00 p.m.-3:00p.m. The Epidemic of Violence 
IV. Childhood, Citizenship, and Democracy 3:15 p.m.-4:15p.m. The Child as Citizen and the Concept of Democracy 
4:30 p.m.-5:30p.m. Integral Protection of Minors as Citizens 
Sunday, September 28 

v. Violence, Delinquency, and Penal Law 9:00 a.m.-10:00 a.m. Children and Adolescents in Conflict with Penal Law 
\0:15 a.m.-11:15 a.m. Mortality Due to Violent Crimes: External Causes of Juvenile Death 
VI. Child Labor and Education 
11:45 a.m.-12:45 p.m. Child Labor and Education in Latin America 
Public Policy Forum 
Auditorium ofthe Center for Continuing Education 
Monday, September 29 

8:45a.m. Welcome and Introduction 
9:00-10:15 a.m. 

Session I Child Health, Nutrition, and Sanitation 
10:30-11:45 a.m. 

Session II Issues of Education, Labor, and Violence 
1:30-3:00 p.m. 

Session III Child Rights: Citizenship, Democracy, and Penal Law 

Forum Panelists 

Ramon Aleman Arias Supreme Court ofJustice and Casa Esperanza, Panama 
Sir George Alleyne 
Pan American Health Organization 
Luis Anderson 
C/OSL-ORIT, Venezuela 
Rev. John Drexel, OMI 
Archdiocese of Sao Paulo, Brazil 
Michael Heisler 
Task Force for Child Survival and 
Development 
The Carter Center; USA 
Marta Mauras 
UNICEF-Latin America and the 
Caribbean 
Juan E. Mendez 
Inter-American Institute of Human 
Rights, Costa Rica 
Marinela Servitje de Lerdo de Tejada 
Papalote Children sMuseum, Mexico 
Eugenio Raul Zaffaroni 
Faculty ofPenal Law, University of Buenos Aires Argentina 
Nelly Zavaleta 
Instituto de Investigaci6n Nutricional, Peru 
~ ~-~~ 

page 6 The Observer • NEWS Friday, September 26, 1997 

SMC freshmen vote Kelley and Kezios 
By P. COLLEEN. NUGENJ 
Associate SaimMat)i~~ News Ediror)W( 
Yesterday's run-off election put Carolyn Kelley and Kara Kezios in the top positions for Saint Mary's freshman class. The pair were elected freshman body president and vice president, respectively. 
They earned 53 percent of the votes, while their opponents, Chriss Asher and Katie Poynter held 45 percent; two percent abstained. 
"I think it was a vetyigood election and l'm very exCited to be working with the freshman class as a whole," stated Janet Horvath, elections student com' missioner. "AU of the candidates had a lotl.tf potential ~4.d.J:,tn., 
-+%1t==~t:.=~~===~?-:·::~..: . ,. ::: 


Coalition 
continued from page 1 
ers, especially the multicultural commissioners." 
The assistant director also informed the group that the interview process for the OMSA assistant director position for­merly filled by Jose Gonzalez has reached its final stages. 
Face-to-face interviews will be conducted in the first two weeks of October with the final decision being made shortly thereafter. The new assistant director should begin work as early as November. 
Earlier in the evening, the council heard a presentation from Notre Dame Security offi­cers Rex Rakow and Chuck Hurley on providing safety to stu­dents of the University. 
The presentation included safe­ty tips on care of bicycles, auto­mobiles, and personal posses­sions around campus. 
Rakow and Hurley also dealt with the procedure by which an officer may approach someone suspected of criminal dealing. 
anxious to see wh 
u ·· = ·::·· ==:·:, .. ~.:=,;/W:
d.0.·(••\t;.•.;:... •.. .... •. . .. · 
. .. . 
Despite the fact that Asher and Poynter did not win, Poynter stated, "I am very disappointed we didn't win the election, but I think that Kara and Carolyn will do a terrific job, and I W\?hthem the best of luck." !n•··" ·.. · :· 
The freshman class board is composed of a total of 13 mem, hers. 
Presently, only seven members reside on this hoard. The newly elected president and vice presi­dent will be abl~ to · · $e the remaining members. · 
"Nothing has been ..... ded yet, and we are not sure about when the next moves will be made to complete this board;i stated 
Kezios, >.·.··'··.·'···'····.'•.~-•-.'.•. i.i.;:_~\J,:i:!ii>•
? . ·_.,,·,·::=.=====>:w·=.. 
Rakow and Hurley noted that regulations specify that an officer is to ask to see a student identifi­cation card in any criminal situa­tion. This procedure is to occur regardless of color. 
Rakow encouraged those stu­dents, who in their dealings with Notre Dame Security feel they have been treated unfairly, to eontact the Security office and speak with one of the on-duty supervisors. 
"Everyone deserves to be treat­ed with respect," Rakow said. "All of our officers are expected to go out of their way to provide assistance to every member of this community." 
Olivia Williams, assistant direc­tor of the Office of Career and Placement, also made a brief pre­sentation to the council on preparing resumes for several of the upcoming career summits. 
Career and Placement is eur­rently accepting resumes for the Midwest Minority Undergraduate Career Forum to be held at the Westin O'Hare Hotel in Chicago on Nov. 21. 
Williams also urged the coali­tion leaders to encourage their members to use her office as a 
It is intended that Asher and Poynter will be invited to join the freshman board. 

However, no plans have been made as of yet, and sometime in the near future the class of 2001 will choose its secretary and treasurer. 
''We are anxious to work with the freshman class board to exe­cute the points of our platform." stated Kelley. 
The women said they were extremely optimistic about the freshman class, and about what theY }lope. to accomplish by the end ofthis year. 
Kezios stated, "Our classmates showed interest and involvement when they voted today, and we really hope they'll continue to do so throughout the year." 
resource for getting resume cri­tiques and interview skills. 

The council was also able to formalize details on an OMSA sponsored trip over fall break to Chicago, and set a tentative date for a Halloween dance. 
Steven Gomez, the diversity chair for the Griflin!Nass admin­istration, suggested the creation of an ad hoc committee of all of' the student coalitions for the planning of the dance in order to relieve some of the burden from the shoulders of the executive officers. 
One of the final topics of discus­sion that the council addressed was that of the OMSA dance scheduled for tonight in tlw LaFortune Ballroom from 9 p.m. to 1:30 a.m. 
Tony Reid, the new student pro­grammer working with OMSA on planning campus wide events, expressed both his disappoint­ment in past dance attendance and hope for the support of tonight's dance. 
Heid, who formerly worked for Student Activities, encouraged all of the leaders to advertise the dance to students and members of their organizations. 


NASA approves next Mir mission 
By MARCIA DUNN Associated Press Writer 
CAPE CANAVEBAL, Fla. 
With just hours to go before liftoff, NASA gave the go­ahead Thursday to put anotlwr American aboard the rain­shackle Mir space station despite pressure to back out before somoonc gets killed. 
Space shuttle Atlantis was scheduled to Ieavo as planned on a night flight with astronaut David Wolf. 
NASA Administrator Daniel Goldin insisted his decision was not based on emotion or politics, but rather science. lie relied on two concurring, last-minute safety reviews conducted by outside experts. 
"In light of the increased scrutiny and heightened emo­tion, I can assure you: This intensely rigorous internal and external review of the shuttle-Mir analyzed thoroughly risk, readiness and, foremost, safety," Goldin said. 
In recent weeks, NASA had come under increasing pres­sure from members of Congress and others not to put another American aboard. But U.S. and Russian space officials had warned that if the United States pulled out, it would be an insult to Moscow that could jeopardize the project to build an international space station. 
Wolf didn't learn for certain until late Wednesday that he would be flying to Mir for a full, four-month stay. Earlier, he had given Goldin "a resounding yes" when asked if NASA should press ahead. 
"It's going to be a fun mission. It's going to be great," shuttle-Mir program manager Frank Culbertson quoted the 41-year-old, never-married Wolf as saying. 
During its 10-day flight, the shuttle will bring back Michael Foale, the fifth American to live on Mir. Foale has spent 4 1/2 months aboard the space station. In addition, Atlantis and its crew of seven will deliver a new computer along with other repair gear and urgently needed sup­plies. 
Gen. Yuri Glazkov, deputy commander of the cosmonaut training center near Moscow. insisted that he would never send anyone to Mir and "expose him to danger." 
"Some people of the media say it's Hussian roulette. something like that. It's not roulette," Glazkov said. "It's Russian ability to assess the situation. It's Hussian couragP and self-assurance." 
Goldin said there are always risks in spaceflight. and NASA oflieials are "deeply touched" by the public interest in the llight and fears for the Mir astronauts' well-being. 
But "the decision to continue our joint participation aboard Mir should not be based on emotion or politics." he said. "It should not be based on fear. A decision should be based -and is based -on scientific and technical assessment of the mission safety and the agency's ability to gain add experience and knowledge that cannot be gained elsewhere." 
"?riL.-1 SP&{31/I.-1 
$3 per person per hour (Not Friday or Saturday after 6 o'clock) 
••THE BEST TABLES AT THE BEST RATES.. 
402 E.Madison South Bend 
23-0-S-C-A-R (236-7227)
Open 7 days a week 
Must be 21 to enter Just a 3 minute walk from downtown 

Full Bar • Appetizers • Leagues • Tournaments 
II.I.lrdz,sl.'rh.rJ 'Progrsssivs , Rstro , AitsrDativsDaDos 
rr1111 sdmi••JoD wlt.b rrs/Jd oo/111111 ID J/1: prop11r JdiiDIIIJostloD 

SUBS & SALADS 
Conveniently located in Martin's Plaza: Corner of 23 & Ironwood 



277-2234 
r~-, r131iiif-, ·~, 
l?e'u~~. I l?e:. .. ~~· I l?e'ut-_..,;;;;:z~. I 
~~~~y~~~l I ~ II ~~~~~ I 
ISub & a 32oz Drink ar I I ~ I I \C({))M\B3({)) I 
Regular Pnce, Get a • li\il rE' /j}.lI second Regular 6" Sub I I COOkieSI I ~Wll ~fi ~ I of equal or Lesser value (A Regular 6" Sub, Chips 
EVERY WEDNESDAY 
Snow Crab Legs, Ali-U-Can-Eat,just 15.95
I FREE! I I for a I I and 32oz. Drink.) I One order per coupon one coupon per 
9 oz. Top Sirloin Butt Steak & lib. of Snow Crab Legs, just 17.95I per customer per visit. I I do II a r I I customer per visit.. I 
Open 5-lOpm Tues.-Thurs. & 5-llpm Fri. & Sat. Free Admission to Heartland with Dinner
Exp1res 12-31-97 
Expires 12-31-97 .J

L .J L .J L 
222 S. MICHIGAN· SOUTH BEND· (219) 234-5200 
Friday, September 26, 1997 The Observer • NATIONAL NEWS page 7 


Stadiums roar for Promise Keepers 
By CALVIN WOODWARD 
Associated Press Writer 
WASHINGTON 

Bill McCartney's experience of being born again was loud, mag­netic and bust-through-the-door passionate, like much else in his life. No wonder stadiums began filling up because of it. 
On the day of his epiphany, the football coach rushed in to tell his wife and her friend that he'd committed his life to Christ. He got blank stares. 
"As time went on, I thought he was downright obnoxious about it," Lyndi McCartney said. "Every time he turned around he was praising the Lord for everything." 
Now, she's come to his way of thinking and so have multitudes of men drawn to Promise Keepers, the ministry founded by McCartney. They flock to sta­diums to pledge themselves to a new moral start. 
The coach who helped turn the University of Colorado foot­ball team into a winner is trying to do the same for Christian men using some of the same motiva­tional skills and butt-slapping jock attitudes of the game. There are plenty of hugs, too. 
On Saturday, Promise Keepers mounts a gathering in Washington that McCartney says will be a mass "statement of 

the history ofthe world.' 
Bill McCartney Promise Keepers founder 
humility" with no political agen­da. Male humility is one of the keystones of Promise Keepers. 
But McCartney, 57, could hardly be more expansive in predicting what will take place. "I believe it's going to be a his­toric gathering unlike any other in any nation in the history of the world." 
That's some humble pie. He's never been very good at munching on that. 
A few years ago, he took a personality test and learned "l have a very domineering per­sonality." That's why he figures he was such a success at work 
while "failing so much at home." 
-The work-obsessed man who guided the Buffaloes to a 1990 national championship never made time to see his sons play football until they were in high school. 
-The man who concerned himself with moral leadership of his team saw an unwed daugh­ter have two children by Colorado players, and several dozen team members arrested for a variety of misdeeds. 
-The man who now tells other men to be better husbands once came home too late to see his wife, uncharacteristically druQk, spread herself on the stairs, feet up, in a bid for his attention. 
The McCartneys tell some of these stories in his autobiogra­phy, "From Ashes to Glory." They are part of the mythology now -blows that make steel stronger. 
"Bill McCartney is tapping into something here -the failure of fatherhood, or the failure of hus­bands, that is felt in the psyche of America today," says Bruce Shelley, who has taught church history for more than 30 years at Colorado's conservative Denver Seminary. 

Diamond PriceQuotations 246-1939 1-888-969-1945 
Thinking of purchasing a diamond? Choose wisely with information in our complimentary book, Diamonds Magnified, 186 pages, hardbound. 
The DiaDlond Authority®
A Division ofJohn M. Marshall's, Inc. Established 1965 
Monday-Friday, lOa.m. to 6p.m. KeyBank Building, Suite #101 South Bend, Indiana 46601 
Walk right in ... 
School celebrates 40 years of integration 
By TERENCE HUNT 
Associated Press Writer 
LITTLE ROCK, Ark. 
In a powerful gesture of racial healing, President Clinton pulled open the front door of Central High School Thursday and stood back to wel­come nine blacks who had braved hate-filled mobs 40 years ago to break an all-white color barri­er. 
"What happened here changed the course of our country forever," Clinton said, recalling a racial drama that wrenched America and was seared in history on television screens around the world. 
"Forty years ago today, they climbed these steps, passed through this door and moved our nation. And for that we must all thank them," said 
Clinton. The audience ­ blacks  
and white together  - roared  
approval.  

But even as he commemorat­ed an important, early victory of the civil rights movement, Clinton warned that American schools are resegregating, opportunities for jobs and edu­cation remain unequal and affirmative action programs are being rolled back, "slamming shut the doors of higher educa­tion on a new generation." 
"Segregation is no longer the law," Clinton said, "but too often separation is still the rule. And we cannot forget one stub­born fact that has not yet been said as clearly as it should: There is still discrimination in America. 
"We have to keep working on it-not just with our voices but with our laws," the president said. "And we have to engage each other in it." 

Deforestation • Air Pollution • Soil Poisoning • Water Pollution • Global Warming • Ozone Depletion • Acid Rain 
Earth-Friendly Human Nature 
an.~< g~~rpopulation, cr~i(e'c:l3. <;~9ud of ecologi­which shad6~s our planet. damage already done, how­
.· reversed If we were to dra­our consumption levels. 
the g(;!epfy-rooted drives 
READING 
• Sunday, October sth 
• 7:00p.m. 

• Barnes & Noble (Grape Road, Mishawaka) 
Professor Howard will be reading from his new book, Ecological Psychology. The read­ing will be followed by a book signing. 
Available at bookstores now! 
Arkansas Gov. Mike Huckabee, a Republican, also stirred the crowd, saying, "What happened here 40 years ago was simply wrong. It was evil. And we renounce it." 
Huckabee, a Baptist minister, said that in many parts of the South, "It was the white churches that helped not only ignore the problems of racism but in many cases actually fos­tered those feelings and those sentiments." He called on all religious leaders "to say never, never. never, never again will we be silent." 
Clinton was 11 years old dur­ing the Little Rock crisis, attending segregated schools 50 miles away in Hot Springs. "It was Little Rock that made racial equality a driving obses­sion in my life," he said. 
After a morning drizzle, skies turned blue and a warm sun beat down on Central students and hundreds of guests. includ­ing the family of the late Supreme Court Justice Thurgood Marshall, a civil rights pioneer. 
Now middle-aged, the so­called Little Rock Nine -six women and three men ­basked in cheers and applause, a sharp contrast to the taunts and jeers they braved as teen­agers. The president led them up Central's steps and he held open the school's heavy glass­paneled doors, greeting each of the nine with a handshake or a pat. Clinton was assisted by Huckabee and Little Rock Mayor Jim Dailey. 
The dramatic gesture had been suggested by students and by the nine who had been turned back, presidential spokesman Mike McCurry said. 
One of the nine, Minnijean Brown Trickey, a social worker in Ontario, became over­whelmed and reached out emo­tionally to Clinton and Huckabee for comfort. "It was pretty strong symbolism," she said. 
ERASMUS BOOKS 
• 
U3Erl l:xJoks ta.>::Jht an::l sold 

• 
25 categories of Books 


• 
25,000 Hardback and Paperback 


l:xJoks in stock • Q.lt-of-Print SeaJ:d1 Servia.: $2.00 
• ~s large an::l smll 

Open noon to six Tuesday through Sunday 1027 E. Wayne South Bend, IN 46617 (219) 232,8444 
WISHMASTER (R) DIGITAL 2:15 5:00 7:30 9:40 
THE GAME (R) DIGITAL 1:00 4:00 7:00 9:45 
FIRE DOWN BELOW (R) 1:45 4:45 7:40 10:00 DIGITAL MONEY TALKS (R) 
2:30 5:15 7:50 10:15 
AIR FORCE ONE (R) 

1:30 4:30 7:20 10:10 
G.l. JANE (R) 

1:15 4:15 7:10 9:50 
Sat/Sun Mat. in [brackets] OUT TO SEA (PG-13) 
[1 :45] 4:30 7:00 9:30 
BEST FRIENDS WEDDING (PG-13) 
[2:00] 5:00 7:30 9:50 IN AND OUT (PG-13) [3:55] 5:25 8:55 11 :20 








VIEWPOINT 
page 8 Friday, September 26, 1997 
THE OBSERVER 
NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1997-98 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Brad Prendergast Managing Editor Business Manager Jamie Hcisl~r Tom Roland AssiS£ant Managing Editor 
Dan Cichalski News Editor ............................Heather Cocks Advertising Manager.............................. Jed Peters Viewpoint Editor ....................... Kelly Brooks Ad Design Manager ..................... Jennifer Breslow Sports Editor .................................. Mike Day Production Manager ......................... Mark DeBoy Accent Editor........................... Joey Crawford Systems Manager ....................... Michael Brouillet Saint Mary's Editor ........................ Lori Allen Controller............................................ Kyle Carlin Photo Editor ........................... Katie Kroener 
The Observer is the independenr newspaper published by che srudents. of rhe University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saim Mary's College. lr does nor necessarily rdlrcr che policies of the administration ofeither insrirudon. The news is reported as accurardy and objectively as possible. Unsigned cdiwrials represent rhe opinion of che majority of the Ediror-in-Chief, Managing Editor, Assisranr Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoinr Editor, Sports Editor, Accent Editor, Saint Mary's Editor, Photo Editor, and Associate News Editor. Commentaries, Jeerers and Inside Columns present the views of the authors, and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's community and to all readers. The free expression of varying opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 
Editor-in-Chief  631-4542  Business Office  631-5313  
Managing Editor  631-4541  Advertising  631-6900/8840  
News/Photo  631-5.n3  Systems  631-8839  
Spans Accem/Sainr Mary's  631-4543 631-4540  Office Manager Fax  631-7471 631-6927  
Day Editor/Viewpoint  631-5303  Viewpoint E-Mail  Viewpoint. I @nd.edu  
General Information  631-7471  Ad E-Mail  observer@datwin.cc.nd.edu  


• RIGHT OR WRONG? 
Stop Being PC, Treat Homosexuality as Disorder 
The administration rates an "A" for sin­cerity and effort on the homosexual issue. But our leaders themselves have now demonstrated that their policy is harmful to students. 
The University denies recognition to GLND/SMC because, said vice president of Student Affairs Patricia O'Hara, that group's "value-neutral approach" and its approval of "stable. monogamous [homo­sexual] relationships" are not "consistent with official Church teaching." Notre Dame intends, as O'Hara stated, "to 

Charles Rice 
remain faithful to the teachings of the Catholic Church." However, the Church teaches not only that homosexual acts are wrong but also that the inclination toward them is disordered, a reality which Notre Dame refuses to affirm. The Letter on the Pastoral Care of Homosexual Persons, issued with the approval of John Paul II in 1986, said, "Although the particular incli­nation of the homosexual person is not a sin, it is a more or less strong tendency ordered toward an intrinsic moral evil, and thus the inclination itself must be seen as an objective disorder." 
On Sept. 8, 1997, the Pope promulgated the "definitive and normative" Latin text of the Catechism. originally issued in French in 1992. The final text revises No. 2358 to state explicitly that the homosex­ual inclination is "objectively disordered." Cardinal Joseph Tarzinger. in presenting it to the press, said the change was the result of "very deep study." The original text read: "The number of men and women who have deep-seated homosexu­al tendencies is not negligible. They do not choose their homosexual condition; for most of them it is a trial." The final text reads: "The number of men and women who have deep-seated homosexu­al tendencies is not negligible. This incli­nation, objectively disordered, is a trial for most of them." 
The first Italian edition had said "innate" instead of "deep-seated." This led to objections, said the cardinal, "that we made people think homosexual ten­dency was innate, that it was already pre­sent at the moment of birth conception ... Many competent experts said this has not been proven." The Catechism recognizes that homosexual orientation is"deep-seat­ed" in the individual's subconscious and "is not simply a matter of choice or will," he said. At the same time, it makes clear the Church's teaching that "homosexual acts are objectively disordered" because "they do not correspond to the fundamen­tal tendency of sexuality which between a man and a woman is ordered toward the birth of children." Catholic Courier, Sept. 11, 1997, p.6. 
In its statement, "The Spirit of Inclusion," the University commendably said. "We value gay and lesbian members of this community ... We condemn harass­ment of any kind." But the administration still refuses to affirm, and therefore implicitly denies or regards as irrelevant, the reality that homosexual acts, and the inclination to them, are "objectively disor­dered." If, as the administration implies, the inclination is not disordered, why may it not be acted upon? But if, as the Catechism states, the acts are "objectively disordered," how could the inclination to those acts be anything but disordered? 
Now, regrettably, the administration has moved from failing to give its students the fuU truth to actively opposing efforts to promote constructive discussion in the context of that entire truth. In the first Maritain Center lecture, Dr. Joseph Nicolosi, who heads the National Association of Hesearch and Therapy of Homosexuality, discussed the evidence that homosexuality ~s a treatable "psycho­logical disorder." In the second, speakers associated with Exodus International dis­cussed "their histories as homosexuals and their spiritual journeys away from that way of life." 
Instead of welcoming those discussions, the director of Campus Ministry took a full-page Observer ad to say, "I do not think the presentation will be helpful ... nor are the topics ... pertinent to where our community is at this time ... [TJhese two presentations will eause unm~eessary pain and a deepened sense of isolation on the part of some of our homosexual stu­dents.... If you are uncertain about your sexual orientation, or if you are gay or 
'Homosexual acts, and the 
inclination to them, are 'intrinsically disordered,' not because of 'official Church teaching,' but because they are contrary to nature.' 
lesbian, and you want a safe and caring place to talk about it, please contact Campus Ministry. Our first goal will be to assure you that homosexual orientation in and of itself is neither sinful nor morally wrong in any way. Secondly, we will try to provide you with a pastoral support group in a confidential atmosphere where you can speak freely about your own situation and learn from the experiences of other students. If you are a Catholic or a mem­ber of a Christian denomination. we will try to help you find ways of living out your faith convictions with integrity." 
Search that statement-and any other University statement-and you will find no indication that the homosexual inclina­tion is disordered or that it is anything but a permanent unchangeable condition. 
So why is that a big deal? Because the administration's position could lead stu­dents of homosexual inclination to con­clude that they are locked in to that con­dition permanently and that the homosex­ual lifestyle is not disordered and is there­fore an otherwise legitimate alternative, 

• DOONESBURY GARRY TRUDEAU 

prohibited only by an arbitrary "oflicial Church teaching." This inference is strengthened by the intense and formal solicitude shown by the University to those with homosexual inclinations, far beyond that shown to students affiictnd with other inclinations. The University Smoking Policy states that. "The University ... will provide access to smok­ing cessation programs to all members of the campus community who desire them." 
To treat an inclination to smoking as a treatable disorder is politically correct. To do so with the homosexual inclination would be politically incorrect to the maxi­mum. This disparity reflects the reality that the de facto ollieial religion of NotrP Dame is political correctness, rivaled, perhaps, only by the cult of the money god. 
I lomosexual acts, and the inclination to them, are "intrinsically disordered," not because of "oflicial Church teaching," but because they are contrary to nature. Not even the Faculty Senate could repeal that law of nature. The University's refusal to allirm it is a dereliction of duty. As the 1986 Letter said, "departure from the Church's teaching or silence about it, in an effort to provide pastoral care, is nei­ther caring nor pastoral. Only what is true can ultimately be pastoral. The neglect of the Church's position prevents homosexual men and women from receiving the care they need and deserve." 
The administration ought to reconsider its position. If it will not oll'er its student the entire constructive and hopeful teach­ing of the Church on this issue. it ought at least to get out of the way of those mem­bcrs of the University community who are trying to do so. 
Charles Rice is on the Law School facul­ty. His column appears every other Friday. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
• 0.UOTE OF THE DAY 
"He who thinks himself wise, 0 heavens! is a great fool. -Voltaire 



VIEWPOINT

Friday, September 26, 1997 page 9 
• lETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Use Medical Resources Fairly, Sparingly 
Kristopher Tel'l't, following in the footsteps of his mentor Charles Hice {SPpt. 24), stakes out a moral absolutist position on issues of death and dying that cannot be sustained in this or any otlwr imperfect world. If it is always immoral to refuse nourishment to a person in a persistent vegetative state, whatever the wishes of the family or the quality of his or her life. then surely it must be pqually wrong (or perhaps morn wrong if moral abso­lutism allows for sueh a com­parison) for a society to deny pot!lntially life-saving treat­tll()nt to any person who needs it. whatever the cost or the prognosis for a favorable out­come, and without any consid­eration of the quality of life that person might experience in tho future. But the demand for such medical servic!ls is nearly infinite, and the supply is limit!ld by (at least) the gross national product. Is it therefore mandatory for soeiety to exhaust its resources caring for tho siek and infirm, with no thought for the welfare of the young child whose lifll might later have been spared if thll resources had somehow been rationed? If not. then how is this rationing to b!l accom­plished? (I for one am uneasy about the morality or using ability to pay, the preferred method in our own sod<~ty). Unfortunately, there arc many such issues of n~source alloca­tion that must be addressed, usually by the "proportional­ists" among us, while the abso­lutists hav!l the luxury of label­ing anyone who actually attempts to solvo these dil'ficult (somotimns intraetablel prob­lems as immoral. 
James]. Kolata Professor of Physics Sepremher 24, 1997 
• ,::;uBMITT!NG !..ETTERS 
We want to hearfrom 

you! 
Submit your letters to the editor via e-mail or disk. Please drop off your letters at 314 LaFortune Student Center or send them to Viewpoint. I@nd.edu. Please limit the length ofyour letter to 250 words. 
Ifyou have any ques­tions, call the Viewpoint department at 6 31­5303. 


Make Every Day Your Masterpiece 
In this all too often selfish and cynical world there stood a champion who stood for what is right and something that we all too often take for granted, life. llis name was Travis Ruhe. I know that nobody on this campus knows Travis or has ever heard of him, but deep down in our hearts we all know a Travis Ruhe or long to be one. 
Travis Ruhe found out sometime during our junior year in high school that he had become inflicted with leukemia and would probably die. I never once heard Travis ask the question, "Why me'?'' He simply accepted this curveball from God and decided to get busy living because it sure beats dying. Travis was the type of person we all long to be. Kind, generous, thoughtful, and full of life. Full of life, what a term to think about. Do we really know what it means to be alive? Travis did. Travis Ruhe made everyday his masterpiece because he did not know if he would live to see tomorrow. Maybe everybody should think about that outlook on life. Do we really know what is in store for us around the corner? 
I was informed last night that Travis lost his battle with leukemia on Tuesday morning. And what a battle it was. Travis refused to go silently into that good night because he wanted to live. But, all the cancer remissions and rebirths finally exhaust­ed his overworked and frail body. 
Today, we live in a society where most people dream for a Mercedes Benz, a fat bank account, and all the material plea­sures this world has to offer. Travis Ruhe simply wanted to graduate from high school with his friends and classmates before he died. What a sight it was when he walked by himself. without any assistance, to that podium amidst overwhelming cheers of joy from his classmates, family, and all the onlookers to receive his diploma. I am proud to consider Travis Ruhe one of my greatest inspirations and heroes. 
They say that God works in mysterious ways. He sure does. I guess Travis' spirit was not meant to be caged by this selfish and unforgiving world. His spirit needed to take flight. Travis' life, despite being cut so tragically short, poses a challenge to us all. Make everyday your masterpiece, treat all people with dig­nity and respect, and makll friendship a fine art because you never know when someone close to you will cease to exist. I am proud to say that his legacy is alive and breathing within every­body that knew him. Now that you know him, be brave enough to follow his creed. 
David Zachry Freshman, Alumni Hall September I0, 1997 

Frisbee-Schmis bee, Stick to the Issues 
Michalll P!lppard's shameless aggrandizement of the Frisbee team in Monday's Observer is a path!ltic tribute to the lack of any real n!lws around here. Are we to believe that our campus publi­cation is the indiscriminate vehicle for any and all propaganda which one of us may wish to sp!lw? Shall I send you a four-column story on the bocce club simply because I think they are a n!lat bunch of guys? I'll b!l sure to mention their crazy nicknames or perhaps an equally !lsoteric bit of useless information. Or better yet, a glowing insight into the spiritual values which lawn bowling imbues in its participants. The fact that you saw fit to devote fully half a page to this collection of god-forsaken quad-urchins is frightening enough, all the more so that you allowed it to be writ­ten by such a blatantly biased "freelance" author. In the future, let's keep the paper fre!l of this kind of special-interest minutia and concentrate on the more important things around here. 
Norm DePlume 
Senior, OH~Campus 
September 25, 1997 

Editor's note: Nora Meany's Inside Column on Wednesday was written in satire, with the intention that readers would under­stand Meany's support of those who choose not to drink. 
That misunderstanding aside, The Observer is printing the two letters below because the ideas contained within them are worth discussing. 
Stand Up For Sobriety 
In response to the Inside Column written by Nora Meany about her friend who has made the choice not to drink -I have a few ques­tions ... and a few comments. Was Mllany serious? Was she just look­ing for reactions? As far as the refllmnclls to "ignorance" and "naiv!lte" go, the only evidence I saw of that was her own, and cer­tainly not that of her friend who has chosen not to drink. Iler argu­ment basically says, "Sell out and drink like the mst of us." She states that for her friend to make this decision in an environment where social life revolves around drinking would be "humiliating." I would argu!l just the opposit!l. She should be proud of her friend for not conforming and for standing up for what she b!l!ieves, certainly not cond!lmning and embarrassing her with that ridiculous articl!l. 
Meany stated that "W!l at Notre Dame, Saint Mary's, and Holy Cross are part of a drinking society above and beyond the academic one we face from nine to five." How dam she take it upon herself to make this absurd generalization for the entire population of thr!le upstanding schools? I would hope she chose her college based on its reputation, excellence, and integrity, not upon its drinking behavior. I would also hope she wants to get more out of college life than drunken parties, slurred conversations, and hook-ups. Thes!l "cher­ish!ld memories" {as she calls them) ar!l funny to a point, but embar­rassment that some of us would rather b!l without. 
The day Meany's article was printed was one of my friend's birth­days. As a graduate of Notre Dame, he turned 23 without ever hav­ing had a drop of alcohol in his life. It was his personal choice that his friends r!lspected, and he certainly was not treat!ld with an"unbearable lack of r!lspect" as she suggested, nor did he miss out on any of the night life. In fact, he was always thll first one to suggest going out. He was at bars all th!l time shaking his rump more than the r!lst of us. He built relationships based on trust and compatibility, not through beer goggles at the Linebacker or over thll shamd expe­rience of praying to the porcelain god. 
As far as "What's th!l use of going out if you're not going to drink anyway?": Meany, why don't you ask someone who doesn't n!led alcohol as a social crutch, someone who doesn't need a beer to hav!l a good time, someone with high standards for herself and enough guts to back them up? In fact why don't you ask your friend about whom you wrote that article, and then thank her when she driv!ls you home. 
Victoria Edwards 
Welsh Family Hall 
September 25. 1997 


I aml'lot'~person who g~tS easily offended by other people's 
Drink f})om the Wine of a Ga~d Life and Family 
opiniolls, bUt lwas thoroughly disheartened when I read 
Wedne~day's Insi(ie Column by Nora Meany.l was very offended 
thatMeany ~;alled notdriliking a "problem" and felt that deciding 
not to drinkwas an "error of [her friend's] ways," and an "igno­
rant choic~:" I was just wondering if Meany ever even both!lred 
asking herfriend why she chose not to drink, because maybe she 
would reconsider calling her friend a "prodigal child." 
I would like to tell you, Meany, about my father. My father is, without a doubt, the greatest role model a kid could possibly ask for; Growmg up, l watched my father's actions and listened to my father's words. I have never heard my father tell a sexist joke. I have never heard my father say anything racist. I have never seen my father strike anyone. He instilled in me a Christian set of values by which I hope to live now that l am on my own. Do you know what the kicker is, Meany? 
I also have never seen my father drink. That, in a nutshllll. is the reason I do not drink. If I can be half the man my father is now, I will be twice the man I could ever hope to be. 
Now, ami wrong not to drink? Am I missing out on evl'rything that is good about Notre Dame? Should I confine myself to my room. forced into a herhli.ts existence just because I do not drink? I hope not. But, Meany, when you claim that there is no point in going out ifone is not going to drink, that is basically what you are saying,$in~ much of the social life on our campus DOES involve drinking. You seem like you pity people who do not drink. Let me tell you something. I pity you, too, ifone of the "most cherished memodes"you have of Notre Dame is a drunken hook-up. 
I cannot believe youactually asked why people would "want to deviate from the norm." I want to stress before I say this that I do not think that alcohol is an evil. since the majority of my friends DO drink. You realize, thOugh, that we would still be living in caves ifpeople did not want to deviate from the norm, don't you? Let's see if we can name.a few nonconformists; shall we? Maybe you've hellfd ofso1ne oftP..efll..;L~t's !;lee ... Jesus Cllrist, Martin Luther Kin~ Jr,, Galileo, Einsteiri, Ghandi, Howard Stern (okay, bad exam­J:!le};l sbiver to think what our world would be like ifthese individ­
yals were asafraid to go~gainsqhe flow as you apparently are. 
In conclusion, I have to say that I am sick of seeing the "peer pressure" that! thoughtwe all outgrew when we stopped carrying lunch boxes.to school. Mea,ny;} pray that you are not seriously pressuring your friend to go hack on a personal decision that she most likely made in her best interests; To whoever the friend men­tioned is, I hope you havethe courage to stand behind your deci­sion and not lether push you around. 
Mike Bradt 
Sophomore, Dillon Hall 
Seprember 25, 1997 


page 10 Friday, September 26, 1997



:ACCENT 


Athletic Campus 

There are plenty of routes available to get from South Bend to Ann Arbor, but the quickest is to go I-80/90 to US 12 to US 31 to US 23 and finally hit I-94, which pretty much goes straight into town. 
......-... 

The trip should last about two and a half hours. 
THE FIGHT SONG 
Hail! To the victors valiant! Hail! To the conquerina heroes! Hail! Hail! To Michiaan! Leaders and best! 
Hail! To the victors valiant! Hail! To the conquerina heroes! Hail! Hail! To Michiaan! ChamPions of the West! 


ACCENT

Friday, September 26, 1997 page 11 

Here is the lowdown on what's happening this weekend. 
Friday. September 26 
5-7 p.m. -The ND and Michigan Clubs will jointly sponsor the "Legends Dinner," which features university officials and former rival football players from the two schools. The dinner is at the Clarion Hotel on Jackson Road in Ann Arbor, located right off of exit 172 ofl-94. Notre Dame is scheduled to present Athletic Director Mike Wadsworth, Vice President Father William Beauchamp, and former Irish players Rod West and Dave Duerson. University of Michigan speakers are scheduled to include Senior Associate Director of Athletics Keith Molin and former players Marc Milia, Mark Bolach, John Wengler and Rich Leach. Tickets are still available for the dinner, at $25/single, $45/double and $180 for a table of eight. 
8 p.m. -Following dinner will be a Notre Dame pep rally, with the ND cheerleading squad and special video appearances from Irish coach Bob Davie and the Band of the Fighting Irish as well as other "unannounced" special guests. The pep rally is free and open to all and is also at the Clarion Hotel. , 
Saturday. September 27 

Sunrise until Game Time -Game day will kick off with the Regional Tailgate, sponsored by all of the Notre Dame Clubs of Michigan. The Notre Dame band and cheerleaders will also attend the tailgate, which features food and drinks and begins approximately two hours before game time. The tailgate is located at Pioneer High School, directly across from Michigan Stadium. The tailgate is free and open to all. · 
Game time -For all of those students who do not have tickets to the game, the "official" gamewatch site is also at the Clarion Hotel, in its lounge/bar. There are plenty of other sports bars around town-Tripper's (on State St.), Banfield's (on Jackson), and Scorekeeper's. 
Sunday. September 28 

9 a.m. -The weekend concludes with a mass in the Clarion ballroom. Throughout the weekend a hospitality booth, satellite ND bookstore, and commemorative T -shirt sales station will be set up at the Clarion, as well as at the Regional Tailgate. 
.. 


page 12 The Observer· SPORTS Friday, September 26, 1997 
• MAJOR lEAGUE BASEBAU. 

Cone's five inning no-hitter paces Yankees 
, 
By KEN BERGER Associated Press 
CLEVELAND David Cone didn't allow any hits. Think he's ready for the playoffs? 
Facing the opponent that awaits him in Game 1 of the AL division series, Cone no-hit Cleveland for five innings as the New York Yankees beat the Indians 5-4 in 10 innings Thursday night. 
Cone, making his second start after missing a month with shoulder tendinitis, left with a 2-1 lead after throwing 75 pitches. Cleveland sent it to extra innings with a run off Willie Banks in the seventh, and Ivan Cruz hit a tiebreak­ing. two-run single in the 10th to win it for New York. 
Victory, shmictory. The topic afterward was Cone. 
"I wish David had never got­ten hurt, and we could get more length out of him," Yankees manager Joe Torre said. "But when you're dealing with David Cone, the trust fac­tor is a big part of it. And you trust him in a big game." 
Ore I Hershiser, who will face Cone on Tuesday at Yankee Stadium, also finished his reg­ular season with a strong out­ing. Hershiser, 8-1 with a 1.83 ERA in the postseason, allowed two runs and six hits in six innings and threw 95 pitches. 
"I felt good. I threw all of my pitches," Hershiser said. "There are no aches and pains, and there's no reason to feel that on Tuesday I won't be ready to go." 
The defending World Series champions won the season series from Cleveland 6-5. Cleveland has not won a sea­son series from the Yankees since 1992. 
Cone, who left with a 2-1 lead, came out of a game with a no-hitter for the second time in two years. In a dramatic comeback from surgery to remove an aneurysm from his right arm last year. Cone no­hit Oakland for seven innings on Sept. 2 and left after 85 pitches. 
On a pitch count in his Sllc­ond start after missing a month with shoulder ten­dinitis, Cone walked five, struck out two and allowed one earned run. 
Torre said he felt Cone could throw 100 pitches if he had to. Cone is just taking it one pitch at a time. 
"I really have no blueprint," Cone said. ''I'm just kind of !1y­ing by the seat of my pants right now, doing the best I can." 
Cruz, called up from Triple-A on Sept. 15, drove in Andy Fox and Wade Boggs with a single to right off Paul Shuey {4-2) to break a 2-2 tie in the 10th. 
Cecil Fielder, who hit his 12th homer in the second, fol­lowed Cruz's single with a sac­rifice !1y. 
"I like what I'm seeing from Cecil." Torre said. Graeme Lloyd pitched a 
scoreless eighth. and Hamiro Mendoza a scoreless ninth. Jeff Manto hit a two-run homer, his second homer in two nights, ofT Mike Stanton with two outs in the ninth to make it 5-4. 
"Mickey Manto," Indians manager Mike Hargrove joked. 
After Tony Fernandez sin­gled, Stanton got pinch-hitter Kevin Seitzer to line to short for the final out. 
Cone left with a 2-1 lead that Willie Banks couldn't hold. The Indians tied it when Bruce Aven walked, Marquis Grissom sacrificed and Enrique Wilson got his first major league RBI with a single to right. 
The closest the Indians got to a hit against Cone was whr,n Grissom lined to right in the fifth and was robbed on a div­ing catch by Fox, who had just replaced Paul O'Neill. 
Fox led off the 1Oth with a single, and Derek Jeter struck out. Wade Boggs and pinch­hitter Raines both walked to load the bases and set up Cruz's base hit. 
Fielder's solo homer to left made it 1-0 in the second, and Cleveland tied it without get­ting a hit in the fourth. Manny Ramirez and Jim Thome Jed off with walks. Cone threw a wild pitch, and H.amirez scored on a one-out groundout by Sean Casey. 
Cleveland got its first hit with one out in the sixth when Jeff Branson hit a grounder off the first-base bag against Banks. 
Notes: Cleveland rookie Jaret Wright will pitch Game 2 of the division series at Yankee Stadium next Thursday. Charles Nagy will pitch Game 3.... Paul Assenmacher. who pitched a perfect seventh, has not allowed a run in 11 outings in September. He has allowed only one earned run since June 16 (32 2-3 innings).... Matt Williams went 0-for-2 against Cone, but the Indians third baseman is 9-for-29 with two homers against the right­hander in his career. 
Blue Jays 4, Orioles :~ 
TORONTO 
After breaking another Toronto record, Joe Carter may have tipped his Blue Cap for tho final time. 
Wearing No. 43 in honor of fired manager Cito Gaston, Carter became the Toronto's career leader with his 203rd homer. leading the Blue Jays over the Baltimore Orioles 4-3 Thursday night. 
Carter, who had been tied with George Bell, connected ofT Mike Mussina {15-8) in the sixth inning. It was his 21st of the season, his first since Aug. 29. 
lie came out for a curtain call following the shot to ac­knowledge the cheering SkyDome crowd. 
"I've said before that I'd like to play one more season and I've always said I'd like to lin­ish my career in Toronto." said Carter, who is eligible to become a free agent. "But nothing has been said to me so I don't know what their plans are. Hopefully, they'll include me. But if this is my last week. it sure has been an emotional one." 

Carter, acquired by the Blue Jays from San Diego in 1989 along with Huberto Alomar, also had a run-scoring double in the first as the Blue Jays stopped a five-game losing streak and won for just the third time in 15 games. Carter usually wears No. 29 but switched for the night to bring attention to Gaston. who was fired Wednesday. 
Mussina, scheduled to open Game 1 of the playoffs against Seattle's Randy Johnson next Wednesday, gave up four runs -three earned -and I 0 hits in seven innings, struck out seven and walked one. 
"It would have been a long layoff between starts if they hadn't bumped me baek two days," said Mussina. "I should be ready for Wednesday." 
Chris Carpenter (3-7) al­lowed both runs and nine hits over seven innings. 
Jeff Heboulet singled ofT Paul Quantrill leading off the ninth and H.oberto Alomar got a one­out single off Dan Plesac. who then struck out Hafael Palmeiro. 
Geronimo Ber.roa singled to second off Kelvim Escobar, and Tomas Perez threw in the dirt to first for a run-scoring error. B.J. Surhoff then hit a game-ending grounder, giving Escobar his 14th save. 
The Observer accepts classifleds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. ar rhe Notre Dame office, 314 Lafortune and from 12 p.m. ro 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. 
Classifieds Deadline for next-day classifleds is 3p.m. All classitleds must be prepaid. The charge is .l cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
'"EARN FREE TRIPS & CASH'"  FURNISHED HOMES GOOD  Wanted: ND Football Tickets  ND Alum 2 pay TOP$$ 4 USC TIX!  its good to like girls  
NOTICES  CLASS TRAVEL needs students to promote Spring Break 1998! Sell15  AREA NORTH OF ND FOR NEXT SCHOOL YEAR 2773097  Discreet Buyer -Call 1-800-255­2850  410-737-6115  a cute little queen that can't run away.  
trips & travel free! Highly motivated  NEED 2 NAVY TIX. CALL FRANK.  it's good to be king  
000 THE COPY SHOP 000 LaFortune Student Center  students can earn a free trip & over $10,000! Choose Cancun,  FOR SALE  HAVE WV/NAVY BUT NEED Mich/USC. CAll Mel 4-1349 if  800-243-9683.  whatever the pay.  
Store Hours  Bahamas, Mazatlan. Jamaica or  want to sell/trade!!  ALUM NEEDS GA TIX TO HOME  Be a part of history at ND"s biggest  
Mon.-Thur.: 7:30 a.m.-Midnight  Florida! North America's largest stu­ 1988 Pontiac 6000 LE. With radio,  GAMES AND LSU  dance party EVERI WSND 88.9  
Fri.: 7:30 a.m.-7:00p.m.  dent tour operator! Calf Now! 1-800­ AJC, pwr windows/locks,  USC GA FOR SALE! 50 YD LINE­ CALL MIKE 800-991-0525  1m's Retro 70's Dance is coming.  
Sat.: Noon-6:00p.m.  838-6411  pwr steering. 137 klmi, drives like a  BEST OFFER 271-7458  Stay Tuned ..  
Sun.: Noon-Midnight  dream, for 1875 or best  Class of '88 needs 4 GA tixs for  
(closed home football Sat's)  "Spring Break..."Take 2'"'  offer. calf 634-3660  2 USC Tickets Needed  USC game. Calf 818-790-0094 or  photo JOE!! do nude yoga with mE  
Phone 631-COPY  Hiring Reps! Sell 15 .. Take 2 Free.  ask for Henry  Call Pete @ 4-0954  e-mail JPOOIG@AOL.COM  
Hot destinations! Free Parties,  the trouble with bucket seats is tha·  
Eats, Drinks. SunSplash 1-800-426­ Brass bed, queen size with orthope­ need 2 BC GA's  Poor college student needs 2 tick·  no everyone has the same size  
CHILD CARE  771 O/www.sunspfashtours.com  die mattress set and frame. New,  calf jen @ x0849  ets for the USC game (for my broth·  bucket  
$50/wk. w/meafs inc. in Clay Twp.  never used, stiff in plastic. $250.00.  er and his wife). Please calf 634­ 
243-2821.  WANTED: Greek tutor to teach  219-862-2082  I need BC tix.  3880.  what is god has alzheimers and ha=;  
conversational Greek, call 233­ 273-1510  forgetton we exist!?  
1239  # # # # # # # # # # # #  NEED 4 WV GA's. calf 4-3025  
WANTED:  For Safe:  2 BC GAs  dolan-am I Howser or am I Quaid~  
student volunteers for  Babysitter wanted for 3 yr. old.  '88 Ford Escort  Best Offer  married student tickets for sale.  
ALUMNI PUBLICATIONS/  Flexible hours. 2.5 m from campus.  white, 2 door, automatic  x2706  $60 each. 277-3665  photo. i'ff do nude yoga. you bring  
NOTRE DAME MAGAZINE  277-1037  great condition  the dozen jelly do-nuts!  
When? 3-5 hours/week starting now; possibly to fill 12 hour  Male seeks female roommate to  calf 687 ·8435 # # # # # # # # # # # #  NEED 4 STUD TIX -GA'D FOR NAVY CALL TODD  PERSONAL  alex-your keys called, they're in a  
pa1d posit1on 2nd semester!  share 2-bdrm home. $325/mo. Inc!  243 5609  Farley laundrey basket  
CONTACT: 631-4638 or  utilities. 243-0491 .  Two Michigan tickets for sale.  FREE Facial & Mkvr w/ Mary Kay  
beal.1 @ nd.edu  Calf Laura at 634-1487  NOTRE DAME  Call Margrette 2845099  Looking for a nde to Miami U., Ohi:>  
ILOST & FOUND I  FOR RENT  Moving sale: 89 Lincoln continental, new tires,exceffent condition.  FOOTBALL TICKETS BUY -SELL -TRADE  Looking for a ride to Miami U.,Ohio this weekend. Will pay for gas.  this weekend. Will pay for gas. Ca Pat@ 4·1901.  
•  A black watch on a velcro band was  WALK TO CAMPUS 2-5 BEDROOM HOMES  4,600/BO; Queen size bed, 1 yr, $190; Microware $90; JBL front  232-0058  Calf Pat@ 4-1901.  1-2,1-2  
lost fast Tuesday night at Stepan  $195/PERSON  speakers $200 each. 243-1128.  CONFIDENTIAL  SYR TONITE?  i'm ready in my 9th week  
Field. If you know where it is.  232-2595  TICKET-MART, INC.  
please calf Ryan at 4-1665.  Car must sell.  TOYS. TEDDY BEARS. PEZ AND  coffeen g., wow what can I say?  
Ford Tempo 1991, 4-door,  MORE NEAT STUFF  i"ve looked from afar for so long a1 d  
Bed & Breakfast  air. very good condition.  BUY/SELL ND SEASON AND INDI­ FOR YOUR DATE!  I can't take it anymore! I would b:  
Lost: Diamond Necklace fast  Have rooms for USC & Boston  $2800 or b/o. Calf Emidio  VIDUAL GAME TICKETS.  honored if you would go out with  
Thursday at Jazzman's.  games. 1 mi. N. of campus.  631·8594  674-7645.  THE COUNTRY HARVESTER  me tonight. please!! i'm begging  
Reward. If found. please calf  2 night min. 272-9260  LOWER LEVEL LAFORTUNE  you!  
284-4350.  FURNITURE MUST SELL  Buying GA's seasons or individual  -don antonio  
New TV+VCR combination,  games. Top dollar paid.  
ROOMS IN PRIVATE HOME FOR  futon+mattress.  Confidential service.  Alena.  wow that guy was obsessed!  
Lost: Videotape on Euthanasia in  FOOTBALL WEEKENDS AND  Calf Emidio 631-8594  Calf 234-5650.  Scrunani misses Punani.  yeah thanks ..... psycho.  
manila envelope in/near D.B.  OTHER ND-SMC EVENTS.  Come home soon.  
please calf ASAP: 4-3915  VERY CLOSE TO CAMPUS -5  YARD SALE  ND FOOTBALL TICKETS  Love always,  that article was stupid  
$20 REWARD  MIN. DRIVE OR 15-20 MIN. WALK.  Sept 27&28 8-4. Sofas, chairs,  FOR SALE  Brian  
243-0658.  micro., exer. equip., clothes.  DAYTIME#: 232-2378  If you were arrested today for bei•g  
WANTED  THAT PRETTY PLACE, Bed and  52589 Lilac Rd. off Cleveland Rd. 4 bfcks east of Portage.  EVENING#: 288-2726  000 THE COPY SHOP 000  a Christian, would there be enou[ll evidence to convict you?  
Breakfast Inn has space available  ND TICKETS WANTED  LaFortune Student Center  
for football/parent wknds. 5 Rooms  MOUNTAIN BIKE  DAYTIME#: 232·2378  ~ High-Speed Copies  pssst....yo quiero Taco Bell.  
In-home babysitter for 1 0-mo. old.  with private baths, $70-$90,  '95 Trek 9200  EVENING #: 288·2726  ~ Canon Color Laser Copies  
TUES!THURS P.M. for 4 hours.  Middlebury, 30 miles from campus.  full aluminum  ..J Digital Color Printing  My sophomore and freshman  
Home located 5 min.s from ND  Toll Road. Exit #107.  FULL SUSPENSION  FOR SALE  '-1 Binding & Laminating  neighbors are the bomb! But -m\  
campus. Contact Carmen Nanni:  1-800-418-9487.  sweet condition  ~ Public Fax Service 631-FAX1  roomate kind of smells. Have a:  
234-1744  $7500BO  N.D. G.A.'S  Phone 631-COPY  great weekend!! -Cavanaugh Ke  
Bed and Breakfast for NO games.  
Childcare needed for infant & preschooler TfTH all day.  Private home 2 miles from stadium. Private baths. 272-9471  TICKETS  271-9412.  why are they so dumb. who can they not know? it's written as plain  just kidding -comet.  
Car req'd; 20 min from NO.  WANTED N D G A'S  as I can write it.  L'Observer c'est ma vie. Sans  
Experience & ref's desired.  NICE HOME NOW OR NEXT  I NEED GA TIXS ALL ND  TO ALL HOME GAMES  no one knows what I do, because  L"Observer. Je n'avais rien. Je sLiis  
(616)663-6006.  SEMESTER 2773097  HOME GAMES.272-6551  271 1526  i"m too shy to say so ....  pathetique  

Friday, September 26, 1997 The Observer • SPORTS page 13 
• WOMErfS !NTERHAll SPORTS 
Defense dominates as scoreless ties abound 
By KATHLEEN O'BRIEN 
Sports Writer 
Badin 0, Howard 0 
A young Badin llall team kicked off its interhall football season with a scoreless tic against Howard. 
The two teams fought a defensive battle which neither was able to win. Badin took the ball first, but an intercep­tion by Anne O'Brien gave Howard its first possession. 
Howard tried passing and having quarterback Priscilla Clements run the option, but it was unable to convert for a first down. The opening series for each team gave an indica­tion of what the rest of the game would be like -defen­sive stops on the first series of each possession. 
Not until late in the first half did either team have a posses­sion with more than one series. Badin finally attained a first down with runs by Stephanie So and Clements but were once again forced to call in punter Katie Dillonhurger. 
Kristy Green caught the pass from Howard quarterback Bea Korbel. but the next pass fell incomplete. Both teams went into the half looking for some offense. 
Howard opened up the sec­ond half on offense but was soon forced to have Sarah Murray punt. Betsy Cavo had a good punt return for Badin, and it seemed in good position to score. 
But safety Jen Cobb proved key for Howard, gaining her first of two interceptions in the second half. 
After several incomplete passes by Howard, Badin brought the ball down field on a 20-yard pass to Betsy Cavo. Clements then ran the ball about five yards, followed by a Kelly Hanratty run. Their of­fense then ran out of options, as Clements couldn't get another first down. 
The offenses were stopped by interceptions late in the game. Howard's Cobb inter­cepted a Clements pass, fol­lowed by Badin's Katie Kroener ending Howard's last attempt at a touchdown with an interception. 
As the clock ran down, Badin was unsuccessful in scoring on the option. "I think we've real­ly turned it around since last year," said head coach Taylor MacDonald. "This was a good first game for us. Hopefully, Badin will be making a playoff appearance this year." 
Badin faces 1-0-1 Breen­Philips on Sunday. 
Howard fell to 0-1-1 on the season, having lost to Cavanaugh on Sunday. Coached by Sean Gallagher and Jay Ingersoll, it is led by captains Cobb and Jen Branigan at defensive end. 
Lyons 12, Pangborn 7 
Lyons and Pangborn started off big on offense, with three touchdowns in the first four possessions of the game. 
Lyons was first to score, as quarterback Kathy Tschanz brought the ball almost 40 yards down field, followed by a Jennifer Ryan reception for the touchdown. The attempt for the extra point was no good. 
Pangborn started off its sec­ond possession with a long run by quarterback Jill DePaul. This was followed by a touch­down run by Nicole Duillet. The extra point was good on a pass to Kristin Kuzmer. 
The Lyons Lions came roar­

$3.00 cover with I.D at the door. 
XtreamZ Nightclub 1150 Mishawaka Ave. South Bend Ave. IN 46615 
•••••••••••••••• 219·283·0653 •••••••••••••••••• 
ing back on the next posses­sion. Katie Yanez was key with four receptions and one run. Pass interference was called on Pangborn, giving Lyons an automatic first down and set­ting up the long touchdown pass to Yanez. 
After the half, both defenses came up big, but it was too late for Pangborn, which lost 12-7. 
Lyons defensive coach Norm Beznoska said, "It was a real tough game. Pangborn is tough, but we played well together as a team. The defense came up big, especial­ly Shannon Harvey and Lisa Thomas in the defensive sec­ondary." Pangborn fell to 0-2 on the season, while Lyons improved to 1-1. 
Breen-Philips 0, Cavanaugh 0 
The Breen-Philips Banshees and Cavanaugh Chaos tied 0-0 in a game marked by many penalties and a boisterous B.P. crowd. 

Natalie Kelley, a junior, seemed to get her hands on the ball on almost every play for Breen-Philips. She had numerous runs and receptions in the game, and acted as punter for the Banshees. They were also led by quarterback Katie Meehan. 
Katie M:.:Coyd was a key player on the offensive and defensive line for Cavanaugh. Flanker Megan McNally also made big contributions. 
Coach Jay DeCoons said, "I want to congratulate the defense for stepping up big and keeping us in the game. We just have to step the execu­tion up on offense." 
Both teams dropped to 1-0-1 going into the second week of competition. 
Breen-Philips coach Kevin Shannon said, "It was a hard­fought game, and it's too bad we didn't come out on top." 
WOMEN'S IH FOOTBAll POWER POl P.E. 1-0 Lewis Walsh 1-0 B.P. P.W. 0-0-1 Cavanaugh 
-

Welsh 1-1 Lyons McGlinn 1-1 Badin 
Farley 0-1-1 Howard 
Off-Campus 0-2 Pangborn 
BELL ROAD, NILES, MICHIGAN Same location as last year; 1/4 mile west of Shelton's Farm Market 
Bring rhis tid in For soc oHI DHer UCJiid All season 
Be a part of NHH's 18th vear of haunting Niles! 
our new chills will "Scare the Yell out of You!" BACK BY POPULAR DEMAND! sMALL Fun for the entire family! C ~ 11 Face Painting
'i. 11 Must see Petting zoo
A 
~ .-II Hay Ride R ~ 11 Free Mini-pumpkin to each E ~]!:0 rider under 12 
S (~FUN HOUSE 
OPEN DATES FRI. thru SUN., OCT. 3rd-5th FRI. thru SUN., OCT. 10th-12th FRI. thru SUN., OCT. 17th-19th FRI. thru SUN., OCT. 24th-26th 
HOURS ADMISSION 
SAT. & SUN. 4:30-8 P.M. $4.00·Fun House& Hayride 
!Michigan Timel 


ALL FEATURES IN ULTRA STEREO ATHOUSAND ACRES (R)* 12:45, 3:15, 5:45, 8:05, 10:30 
THE PEACEMAKER (R)* DTS 12:50, 1:20, 3:35, 4:15, 7:00, 7:30, 9:45, 10:15 EXCESS BAGGAGE (PG-13) 12:45, 3:05, 5:30, 7:50, 10:05 CONTACT (PG) 1:05, 4:10 FIRE DOWN BELOW (R) 1:30, 4:20, 7:15, 9:40 MONEY TALKS (R) 12:55, 3:10, 5:25, 7:35, 9:55 THE EDGE (R)* 1:40, 4:30,7:45, 10:25 HERCULES/GEORGE OF THE JUNGLE (PG) DOUBLE FEATURE 1:10, 
5:05, 9:00 MIMIC (R) 7:55, 10:10 MEN IN BlACK (PG-13) 1:05,3:20. 
5:40, 8:00, 10:20 

Sneak preview Sat. night 9/27 of "Kiss the Girls" at 8:00pm. 
Times valid through next Thursday *No passes 
page 14 The Observer • SPORTS Friday, September 26, 1997 
• SPORTS MEOlA 
Albert pleads guilty to assault and battery 
By MICHELLE BOORSTEIN 
Associated Press 
ARLINGTON, Va. 
After three days that put the details of his kinky sex life on trial, Marv Albert pleaded guilty Thursday to assault and battery charges that could bring him a year behind bars and perhaps a lifetime of humiliation. Within hours, NBC fired him. 
"From my point of view. I just felt like I had to end this ordeal," Albert said outside court in a weary voice after agreeing to a deal in which prosecutors dropped the more serious charge of forcible sodomy, which carried from five years to life in prison. 
Albert, 56, was accused by a longtime lover of flinging her onto a bed, viciously biting her back and forcing her to perform oral sex in an Arlington hotel room Feb. 12 because she failed to bring another man into their bed. 
His plea came a day after a surprise witness came forward with similar accusations: that Albert -wearing white panties and a garter belt -bit her on the neck and tried to force her to perform oral sex on him dur­ing a 1994 struggle in a Dallas hotel room that left her holding the sportscaster's toupee. 
"The significance of that testi­mony is profound," Arlington County Commonwealth's Attorney Richard Trodden said 
-
outside court. adding that the plea bargain was endorsed by Albert's 42-year-old accuser. As he left court, Albert thanked NBC for standing by him. But less than four hours later, the network issued a statement saying it had termi­nated its relationship with Albert. Albert. who for three decades has been one of America's most 
distinctive play-by-play voices with his exuberant "Yesss!'" call, later issued a statement of his own, resigning from the regional MSG cable network as the voice of basketball's New York Knicks. 
"I fully understand the posi­tion in which the networks found themselves due to my very painful situation," Albert said. "In the interest of my fam­ily, my friends and my many supporters, I step aside with deep humility and will seek to reconstruct my personal and professional life." 
Albert's lawyer, Roy Black, said his client accepted the deal because the judge had gutted his case. 
"If all our evidence had been allowed, we wouldn't be in this position," said Black, who suc­cessfully defended William Kennedy Smith against a rape charge in 1991. "I thought it was the best way for Marv to end this matter." 
Under Virginia's rape shield law, the judge is allowed to bar evidence of a sex assault vic­tim's past. The defense intended to introduce evidence that Albert's accuser had a pattern of threatening past boyfriends and that she was mentally unstable. 
In their biggest coup, defense lawyers played a tape for jurors Tuesday in which she appeared to coach and bribe a potential witness, a cab driver, into back­ing up her claim that Albert was trying to procure another man for three-way sex. 
As Albert made his plea before Circuit Judge Benjamin 
N.A. Kendrick. his family and other supporters sat stoically in three rows of the courtroom. showing no visible reaction. His fiancee, ESPN producer Heather Faulkiner, sat with her hands clasped in her lap. 

• MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL 

Maddux controls season 
By PAUL NEWBERRY 
Asso"~red P~. 
,.•:.. ··:..· ATLANTA Go B.head, call Greg Maddux a control freak. He doesn't milld a bit. This season, the Atlanta BnJ;ves pitcher and four*time Cy Young Award winner took his already impeccable control 
to new levels. He walked only 20 hitters in 232 2·3 innings, an average ofQ.774 walk per 
nine innings. And consider this: Of those 20 walks, six were intentional. 
"It seems like every year he does something amazing that brings attention to the way he 
. pitches," teammate and fellow pitcher Tom Glavine said. 
Typically, Maddux shrugs when asked about a season that ranks among the best in baseball history from a control standpoint -and makes him one of the top contenders for an unprecedented fifth Cy Young. 
"I've noticed hitters being a lot more aggressive off me early in the count," said Maddux, who will start Game 1 of the divisional playoffs next Tuesday, "That's going to reduce the walks." 
He was also forced to admit, "My control has been pretty good." 
Accordi:hg to the Elias Sports Bureau, only seven pitchers qualifying for the ERA title since 1900 have walked fewer batters per nine innings than Maddux, led by Pittsburgh's Babe Adams (0.616} in 1920. Only two of those seven are contemporaries of Maddux: Brett Saberhagen (0.660) with the New York Mets in 1994 and Bob Tewksbury (0.773) with St. Louis two years earli­er. 
Maddux (19·4) went· into his final regular-season start Monday with a chance for another unique accom­plishment: more wins than walks. 
"That says it all for me," Atlanta general manager John Schuerholz said. "How can you win more games or as many games as you walk hitters? It's unheard of." 
Alas, Maddux left himself with another goal to strive for. 

He didn't get a decision and added a walk to his total with an intentional pass, ending a streak of 38 consecutive innings without a walk. Earlier in the season, he had a 36­inning streak. 
"His command is awesome," pitching coach Leo Mazzone said. "lt's been that way ever since we've had him here. but it boggles your mind to watch it day in and day out." 
It wasn't always this way: Maddux had 74 walks in 155 2-3 innings as a rookie with the Chicago Cubs a decade ago. But he worked diligently to improve his control, cognizant that he wasn't the kind of pitcher who could just blow hitters away with a 100 mph fastball. 
Over the past four years, Maddux has 102 walks in 889 1-3 innings -1.032 per nine innings. 
"He drives himself tremen­dously," Mazzone said. "When he does his work on the side, if he is off target just a couple of inches, he gets very angry. It's something he takes a great deal of pride in." 

Happy 21st Birthday Tricia Malovey! 
Love, Mom&Dad 
CINEMA AT THE SNITE 
presented by Notre Dame Communication and Theatre 

Showing Friday and Saturday: 7:30 and 9:30 pm 
(Austin Powers will not be shown) 
W 
th nearly 80 years of' leadership experience 
111 our field, TIAA-CREF is eminently 
qualified to help you build a comf(mable, won}·­
l'ree retirement. 
Our references are equally impeccable­
today, nearly two million of' the best minds in 
America trust us with their financial future. 
Allow us to review our qualifications. 
Superior strength 
With over $200 billion in assets, TIAA-CREF is the world's largest retirement organization­and among the most solid. TIAA is one of' only a handful of' companies to have earned top ra;­ings for finam·ial strength, and CRL~F is one ol' \Vall Street's largest investors.' 
Solid, long-term performance 
We seek out long-term opportunities that other companies. in pursuit of quick gains, often miss. Though past performance can "t guarantee future results. this patient philosophy has proven extremely rewarding. 
Surprisingly low expenses 
TJAA-CRI-:F's operating costs are among the 

Ensuring the future for those who shape iC' 

lowest in the insurance and mutual fund 
industJ·ies. Therefore, more ofyour money goes where it should-towards ensuring your future.' 
Easy diversification 
We offer a wide variety of' expertly managed 
investment options to help build your assets. 
With stock, bond, money market, and real estate accounts-as well as a guaranteed annuity to choose l'rom-TIA1\-CREF makes diversification easy. 
Unrivaled service 
We lwlieve that our service distinguishes us from every other retirement company. In the latest Dalbar Consumer Satisfaction Survey, a study of 2,000 financial companies, TIAA­CREF was voted the leading provider of' retirement plans. 
lfyou work in l'ducation, research. or relat­ed fields. why not put Tl1\A-CREF's experi­ence to work for you"1 To lind out mo1·e, visit our \\'eb site at www.tiaa-crel'.org or call us at I-S00-8.j2-2776. 
1A++ (S~fwnori._A.\1 B~sl U~.: AA.-\. llull & Phelps. r\d.l, MutKly'~ lnv~.!Uc~r_S_e~·\'ict"s: AAA St:•mtl;u·d .md 1\ltJr·~ lt1r iil_ability. suund mvcstmt·nb.. daim!--pay.n~ :~bilit,\, ami on-rail linan<1.1l ~lrcnt.'lh. 1 ht•w rat.mgs ni11AA i!S 11~ msuran~ t' H.lmpan~v du not .,pply tu CRI·.I·. ·.\J<1m~ml ,·>t~~.,..·fu.•lll\11/t~ R.tllll.•l·ln.l~IJ.•t.•, 19911. L1ppcr :\nat\1it<JI Ser.,.in.$. lm .. !JI'I~·r./Jurd1 1r."•, 111•1~1/ll<'td 11.1111, JlJlJb (Qu<~l1t•rly). l•or.mor~ mmplt<!t' mlorm.11.11on. t~du~l1.ng c~;~rgt·~ and t'Xpt•nst's. ni11.1-X(J[).X4:2-273,,, t:xtensin~l .'1~1:1.1o~ l'REF and TIA:\ 1-h·all·~~late prnspt•t"IUM'~. Kt·.nl ther.lt'ilfdully hclon· yuu ln\'t'sl or send money. 11:\A-CRl~l· lnt!J\'Jdual and lnMIIUIIOIIill St"r.'ll't'S, lnl dt~tnbutcs CRU· ccrttiiL'illt'S and tht• \'ariablt· rumponcnt ofTL\;\ l'Onlfa{'!!i. 
r-~------~~------------~--~~--~----~----------~~--~-----------------~-­
Friday, September 26, 1997 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 15 

~-..CHASE 




portunities 
n today's competitive global Ienvironment, you need the right start to your career. So explore all the opportunities available to you-at Chase. 


As the largest bank in the U.S., we offer exciting and challenging 

careers in finance, accounting, sales, marketing, technology, human resources, and more. With so much to choose from, you can select one that matches your skills, interests, and goals. To find out more, join us on: 
October 8, 1997, 7:30 -9:30 p.m. 
Morris Inn, Alumni Room 
In just one hour, you will get to know us-and we will get to know you. So start thinking about joining the dynamic global environment only a premier financial services organization can offer you-and explore a world of opportunities at Chase. 

www.chase.com/careers 
CHASE. The right relationship is everything~M 
. Chase Manhattan Bank is an Equal Opportunity Employere 1997 The Chase Manhattan Corporation 
page 16 The Observer • SPORTS Friday, September 26, 1997 
• MAJOR lEAGUE BASEBALL 

Cleveland chooses Wright for Ga01e 2 
By KEN BERGER Associated Press Writer 
CLEVELAND 
Cleveland's Ore! Hershiser will start Game 1 of the AL division series against New York and will be followed by rookie Jaret Wright. chosen over staff ace Charles Nagy to pitch the second game at Yankee Stadium. 
Hershiser started Thursday night against David Cone in the final regular season game between the teams. The two right-handers will meet again in the series opener. as long as Cone was OK in his second start after missing a month with shoulder tendinitis. 
Hershiser. 39. the 1988 NL Cy Young Award winner, is 8­1 with a 1.83 ERA in his career in the postseason. 
"Ore! has been a big-game pitcher his entire career," Indians manager Mike Hargrove said. "He is very dif­ficult to intimidate no matter what the circumstances are." 
In a bold move that shows the utmost confidence in Cleveland's top young pitcher, Wright. 21, will make his first career appearance against the Yankees in the second game. He is scheduled to face left­bander Andy Pettitte. 
"I'll probably talk to Ore! and Charlie a little about what can happen in the playoffs," said Wright (8-3, 4.33 ERA). a savior in Cleveland's injury­ravaged rotation. "All I can do is do my job." 
Wright, son of former major 

ALUMNI
Ill 
SENIOR 
Show starts 

~(fJrt frfbca q(fJrt frfbca 
league left-hander Clyde Wright, pushes Nagy back to Game 3. Nagy (15-10). Cleveland's No. 1 pitcher and opening day starter this sea­son, is 0-2 with an 18.00 ERA in three starts against the Yankees in 1997 (9 innings, 24 hits) and 6-8 with a 5.86 ERA in his career. 
"I don't think Charlie needs to do anything different against them," Hargrove said. "Charlie has been too good for too long for anybody to make too much of that." 
Nagy was fourth in the AL Cy Young voting last season and was the All-Star game starter in Philadelphia. 
But the Yankees hammered the 30-year-old right-hander for six earned runs and nine hits in five innings Tuesday night. The Indians came back from a 9-2 deficit and clinched the AL Central title against their wild-card opponent. 
Nagy also had a 7.15 ERA in two division series games last season, when Cleveland lost to Baltimore in four games. He lost the opener to David Wells, now with the Yankees. 
New York manager Joe Torre has not announced whether Wells or Dwight Gooden will start Game 3. 



Red Sox rookie turns heads 
By HOWARD ULMAN 
Associated Press Writer 
BOSTON 
In spring training, Nomar Garciaparra handled contro­versy as smoothly as he han­dles a bat and glove. 
Boston already had an out­standing shortstop, John Valentin, and he didn't want to move to second base to make room for the rookie. Valentin had his own goal, "to be one of the best short­stops the Hed Sox ever had." 
There was little doubt Garciaparra would get that chance instead, but he didn't aggravate a touchy situation. Under the glare of the spot­light and the Florida sun, he simply said the right things and made the right plays. 
"My job is to go out there and play wherever they put me and do the best I can," he said before the season began. 
On Sunday, his season ends, a season in which Red Sox fans had little to cheer but Garciaparra. He dazzled them with his fielding, set records with his hitting and appears to be a shoo-in for AL rookie of the year. 
"If Nomar had come along 15, 20 years ago, I'm sure Cal Ripken would have been glad to move over to third base," says Johnny Pesky, whose 55­year-old record of 205 hits by a Red Sox rookie was threat­ened by Garciaparra. "When you get a talent like that, he has to play." 
lie has played so well that he even broke Ted Williams team rookie record of 344 total bases with two doubles on Sept. 19. But the Hed Sox lost the game. 
"What he has done this year," Pesky says, "you'd have to say he is a perfect player." 
As teammates continue to collect souvenir balls for him to mark each milestone, he still lacks one characteristic of stardom. an inflated ego. 
Breaking Williams' record "means a lot," Garciaparra said. "Right now, I'm more upset that we lost." 
That's more than a stock answer from the 24-year-old shortstop with exceptional maturity for a rookie. Spending three years at Georgia Tech before turning pro helped. 
Garciaparra is devoted to the sport he loves and con­

sumed by a desire for con­sistency. In the batter's box, he goes through the same routine on every at-bat ­tugging his gloves, tapping his toes. 
It is more than just super­stition. 
"I just like things tight be­fore I exert energy," he said. "my toes at the end of my shoes and then. when I have gloves on my hands, the same thing. I'm just pushing and pulling them down and then I'm just getting ready to hit." 
Garciaparra broke the major league record for HBis by a leadoff hitter and set the AL mark for longest hitting streak by a rookie, 30 games. He has the most hits in the league and also could lead in runs and triples. 
Power and speed? lie had 29 homers and 22 stolen bases going into the regular season's final weekend. 
In the field, he has excep­tional quickness, sure hands and a powerful arm. 
Is there anything he needs to work on? 
Garciaparra said he never sets goals or expectations. "so I don't think of what I've done as a surprise." 


~---------~ --------~~--­
Friday, September 26, 1997 The Observer· SPORTS 

MEN'S IH FOOTBALL POWER POLL 

WMPP-y -Sarah ~ 

Portfolio Management Challenge 
who: Mr. Joy Jordon 
what: The Topic of Leveraged Buy-outs 
when: TODAY, Friday 
2:00pm 
where: Jordan Auditorium of COBA ALL MAJORS ARE WELCOME 
• 
Mr. Jordon is a trustee and benefactor of the University. 

• 
He is also the founder and chairman of The Jordan Company, a leading New York leveraged buy-out firm. 



M. Soccer 
continued from page 20 
Berticelli said. "Each player has the ability to score from any position on the field. To win, we have to be technically sound." 
The Scarlet Knights look to sophomore forward Brian Piesner, the team's scoring leader, and senior midfielder Billy Walsh to lead their scoring attack. 
Notre Dame brings a two­game winning streak into this weekend. The Irish defense has been tenacious in conference play all season. It has yet to give up a goal to a Big East opponent with a lot of credit going to senior goalie Greg Velho. Velho has 18 career shutouts, including five this year. 
The Irish attack has received a boost by the recent play of senior co-captain Ryan Turner. Turner leads the team in scor­ing with five goals and four assists. The Irish will rely on his offensive prowess as they approach this important week­end. 
The games will be held at Alumni Field, with Villanova coming to town on Friday at 
7:30 p.m. and Rutgers on Sunday at 1 p.m. 
The Notre Dame Men's tennis 
·-·'''~'?'-V') ·. 
team will host 

the Tom Fallon 
Invitational':''+ today througlj,,: '' Sunday . .atthe,,
..... ··~:) .....:~-. . . .:: .. :.:,:;.>·::\·k.: ·'·.: ..,.,; :::·:.:=:.:;:;'.::·:'if: 
Eck 't_.................. 
1. 2. 3. 4. 5. 

You are invited to join with fellow actuarial stu­dents and faculty members for a special presenta­tion about post-graduate job opportunities and summer internships at 
ITRUSTMARK INSURANCE COMPANY I 
Trustmark is a leading mutual life and health insurer located in a beautiful suburban setting 30 miles north of Chicago. 
Actuarial Careers at Trustmark Presentation 
Tuesday, Sept. 30, 1997 Notre Dame LaFortune Center -Foster Room 7:30 p.m. -9:30 p.m. 
-

Trustmark representatives will be available to answer your career-related questions following the program. Food and beverages will be served. 
To R.S. VP call Jen Rubnerat (219) 243-8326 by Monday, September 25 
M 
1. Keenan 
2. Dillon 
12. Alumni 

Dillon Keenan .... Keough Keenan Sarin 
3. 
4. 
5. '6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 11. 
O'Nei Keough Morrissey St. Ed's Siegfried Stanford Zahm Sarin Knott 
1. 2. 3. 4. 
5. 6. 7. 8. 
Farley McGlinn Lewis Howard Welsh Walsh PW BP 
PE 
Cavanaugh Badin Lyons 

64 90 
91 
96 138 
161 189 
204 207 213 224 231 
Crosby Lyons Beth Marino Farley Rachel Bundick Farley Kelley Smith Farley Katherine Fout Welsh 

page 18 The Observer· SPORTS Friday, September 26, 1991 
' 
I I I 
I 
I .,.. 
I I I I I 
! I 
I 
• 


W.Soccer 
continued from page 20 
scoring eight in eight games, good enough for 1Oth place on the national leader list and sec­ond in the conference. 
"This weekend is very im­portant for us," said Streiffer. "It's really important for us to be first in the conference, and we need to play well against Big East teams to do that." 
Defensively, the Irish have been stellar, thanks in large part to goalkeeper LaKeysia Beene, who ranks first in the nation among net minders with a minuscule 0.39 goals against average, having allowed only three goals in eight games and having recorded six shutouts. 
Defenders Kate Sobrero, Jen Grubb and Kelly Lindsay have been in all-star form, giving Beene strong support in the back. 
"I have a great defense in front of me, " said Beene. "I have confidence in my defense; they've been playing great." 
Although this weekend's opponents will not pose too much of a challenge for the Irish, every game is a stepping stone toward the ultimate goals -a Big East crown and nation­al championship. 
THE BIG Wom~n'~ ~o~~~ 
Scoring Leaders 




EAST 
Overall Goals Points 
Jenny Streiffer, Notre Dame 5 19 
8 16 
7 16 
6 15 
6 13 
6 13 
6 13 
5 13 
4 13 

Sara Whalen, Connecticut 4 13 


Golf 
continued from page 20 
Hall. St. John's nine Big East titlPs are the most by a school in thP conference's 18-year his­tory. Four of those champi­onships came in consecutive years, also a conference record. 
"We need to play smart," Limbach said about Notre Dame's kPy to victory. "We can't make any mistakes. You're not going to figure this course out playing it only oncP, so I think we'll have an advan­tagP there." 
Senior Bryan Weeks will lead the Irish along with junior Brad Hardin and sophomore Jeff Connell. Weeks led the Irish for the 12th time in his career last weekend at the Hawkeye Intercollegiate in Iowa City. A 74 in Sunday's final round earned him a 15th-place finish with a 228. Weeks' career stroke average of 76.58 over 72 rounds is the lowest Irish aver­age since 1982. Statistics before 1981 are incomplete. 
"He always has been (a leader for this team)." Stanis said of Weeks. "Even when other (top players) were here, he always seemed to shine through." 
Kent State won the Hawkeye Intercollegiate with a final score of 889. ThP Irish finished 11th with a team score of 930, one stroke behind Wright State and eight behind Northern Illinois. 
Hardin won the campus championship last yPar and placed second in the 1996 Big East conference championship. Opening with a 74 at the Hawkeye last weekend, Harding struggled through the final two rounds, scoring an 85 and an 80 to finish at 239. 


Strip 
continued from page 20 
agreed to allow student-athletes to work jobs on campus to earn extra money. 
The NCM set precedent with this bold move. It showed trust in the student-athletes and igno­ranee in the way the world of college athletics all too often operates. 
While it seems like a plausible idea to many to allow student­athletes to work, the reality is that presents from entities such as "friends of the program" make this idea an impossibility. The illegalities that occur as a result of perks to student-ath­letes could now be characterized as payment for work. 
If other colleges "cheated" by somehow supporting the pay­ment of athletes, be it directly or indirectly, before student-ath­letes were allowed to work, they would be 10 times more prone to do so now. How difficult would it be to say that Jimmy worked 30 hours at North Dining Hall and that is why he received a check for $50? 
To see why this idea is not practical, we could look at Michigan, where the car driven by Robert "Tractor" Traylor has led to an investigation of the basketball program and possibl1 NCAA sanctions for thi' Wolverines. Or we could look a.. Michael Myers, arguably the best defensive lineman in collegt= football, who was dismissei..: from the Alabama football teaTL as a result of allegedly receivinJ:: plane tickets from an agent. A: corrupt as things are now, the:­would become exponentiall:­worse if student-athletes o• seholarship were allowed to re­ceive payment for working a jo• on eampus. 

The losers here arc the stu­dent-athletes. While many legiti­mately need money and want t::t work in an honest manner, the.; are unable to do so. llowevm, one has to wonder if Traylor ana Myers initiated their respectiv=J illegalities. or if they were ap­proached. Odds are, they wen approached by someone wh J never was a student-athlete an::! has no respect for what they do 
While the NCAA board o=f directors reconsiders its stancCJ on this issue, maybe it should tr..' to find a way to stamp out th=J illegalities while plaeing mor3 faith in the student-athletes. 
Is it possible to come up with 'l plan so college athleties ar ~ looked at as a game and not 'l business? Such a stance woul=I help us value the Notre Damr­Michigan game regardless r I' our record, but due to the trad­tion. 

Notre Dame"Js biggest Dance Party 

IS COJlliDg. • • 


-
Friday, October 3rd, in the Stepan disco ball, from 8:00pm-!2:00am. Featuring WSND radio personalities, the MEC's Taste of Nations, Troop NI::I free cd's, and your grandmother. Be a part of history!!! Relive the decade you were born in. Show off your innate fashion sense. Look groovy. 
---------~-~------------­

Friday, September 26, 1997 The Observer • TODAY page 19 
MEN ABOUT CAMPUS DAN SULLIVAN 


MIKE PETERS 


DILBERT 

OH, NO! I OVER­
SLEPT ... NO TIME 
TO APPL'( Mto.K.EUP ~EFORE MY BIG MEETING! 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 29 School tie? 31 Where the 
1 Hot stuff Starting meets s U.S.N A. rank 35 Descriptive
11 Ice. so to speak 
words of honor 14 Spark 
40 It can take your 15 Magazine breath away 17 Visible 
41 Screamers 42 "---daisy!"
18 On the nasty side 
43 One billion years, in 19 Big brute geology
20 Soak 
44 H.S. class 21 Discharged 
45 "--;~ -were you 22 Hogwash 24 Help wanted 47 Gained a lap advertisement? so Taunt 26 Fabled "Arabian 
s3Sty Nights" 57 Kind of part creature 59 Some fraternity 
27 Rocket scientist 
men Wernher-­60 Christmas Braun crackler 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

SCOTT ADAMS 

OKAY, DOES EVEF\'(ONE UNDERSTAND 
IHE.IR 
TA~\<..5? 
61 Cliffside dwellers 63 Poker ploy 64 Italy's Gulf of 
65 Hydrocarbon suffix 66 Grp. in old spy 
novels 67 90's catch phrase 
DOWN 
1 Flip side? 2 Cancel 3 Has trouble 
running 4 Brest friend s Brings up the 
rear 6 Moral element 
in literature 7Words s Beat severely 9 Robotic: Var. 
10 Medical prefix 11 "Get--!" 12 Physiognomy 13 Skedaddled 16 Secreting 
securely 23 Chopin pieces 25 Ill humors 28 Local theater, 
slangily 
30 Biological classes 32 Scrooge's 
attribute 33 ---majeste 
IT'5 NEWT GINGRICH! 
\I/ 


34"--of 51 Isolated hill 56 Things to 
Solomon" 52 Elizabeth's love sit on 35 Popular cologne 53 Bronte heroine sa Appropriate cry 36 Lot 54 Beijing coin for Crusoe? 37 Trunk items 55 Old news 62 "School 38 Kind of commentator Daze" 
chamber --Abel director 39Agatha contemporary 
Answers to any three clues in this puzzle 46 Big book 

are available by touch-tone phone: 48 Looks out for, 
1-900-420-5656 (75¢ per minute). maybe 
Annual subscriptions are available for the 49 Part of the best of Sunday crosswords from the last crown jewels 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
YOUR HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 
ClLLHRri IES BORN ON THIS DAY: '-JugM 1\a~· Rob1n:-.un, Doug I knnmh. Wvnnnn.l ludd, ( ;old,1 ML'Ir 
DI:AI~ I.:UCE:'<IA I ,ltll l"UHL'Ilih· 
bv1ng ...-ul•d lnr brL'.ll"h nt ··1 nmtract. 
:\lh!lhcr 1.."omp.11w took lH'L'r thL• com­
p.ln\· th,lt I w,,.._ '''{lrh.1ng for .1nd 
1\'clllll'd llll' to ..,lgn cl contract to con­
lllliiL' working I rl'lusL•d Nothmg 111 
111\" <lrJglnnl l·untr,lll st,ltcd that I 
mu:-.1 hunor tlw length olm\· contract 
11 the company \\'l'n' to bt' sold \\'til J 
\1\111 or lo~l' th1s c.1Sl'" II I Jo..;,l', will 1t 
l."O!-l 111L' \"L'f\' much? Ur, 1J I win, V\'ill 
thL'I'l' bl' anV financ1c1l rewards? Your 
hl'lp in thi~ mo1tter v..muld be greatly 
apprL'Cialt•d, as it has been pl.1yin~ on 
111\ mmd 
John 
DEAR }OHr-;: Your chart appears to be quite good in professional areas, and therefore you should be concentrating more on getting on with and ahead in your current posi­tion, which I believe is working for you. You have taken a position of competition for the company who is currently suing you, and that's a good sign, because obviously you are good at what you do. Don't waste too much time or money on lawyers "Yho want to countersue. TI1at appears to be a last resort if the company in question doesn't back down. As far as reaping financial rewards from this company, I feel more confident telling you that you will make money through the hard work you put in and doing the best job you can for your clients. Good luck. 
ARIES (March 21-April20): Secret affairs involving colleagues are likely. Proceed with caution to avoid gossip. ~-fuch can be accomplished if you \\·ork on your own. 

TALRLS !April 21-May 2n l'lc·.1· ~un· lnp.... \\·dl pn111HliL' rom,1nn· Ytllll nhdJt\· !11 tmd !-tlluiJPn~ will gl'l \'tltl tlw .1ppro\·.11 y\1u n·qum·. 
GH11'\I 1\t.w 22-June 21): Y<>ur ptJ:-.ItHm tn ...,nl.,d,: c.m bl' enh.liKl'd b\· ill\'(llVl'nll'nt llll1111lll1Uillt\' tunctunb 
Your \\'II .md d1.1rm \\'Ill it•l ntlwr-. t~1 
bL•nd tu _vour ,,.,1\ l,f th1nking 
CANCER Ijune 22-July 22): lr,n·el 
will be ~-t,ur bl·-.t bt•l. Ym1 \\'ill g(1111 
\'.llu<~bll· k.nowlt•dgl' through thL' pl'n­
pll' \'OU t'lll.'Otlllll'r 

LEO iluly 23-Aug. 23): Yuu will 
hil\'l' nppnrtul1l!JL.... tu m.lkL' t':"\lra (a~h. 
litHVL'\.L'r, on·r-.pL'nJJng nn /u\Uf\' 
Jtl'm~ \\'Ill be ,1 mnf~>r ...,£'th.3.d. 
VIRGO (Aug. 24-Sept. 22): Tra~·el 
will result JJ1 llL'"" romantic attrac­
tions. You will tmd that sooal actJ\·i­
tw~ W!ll be L'I1JO\"ilhit' t\lld pronwte 
new connL'Ctu m-. 

LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 231: D~r,•ct vour attenlh11l toward Wtlrk \'\'hat }rou don't get t1mshed, take home RL~­evaluatl' \'Our pl>SJtlOn and career objecttv6. 
SCORPIO <Oct. 24-Nov. 22): Social e\·ents \\ dl promote meeting ne\\' potential mates. You will be luckv \•;hL'rL' 11n-estments are con­
cern~d. 

SAGITTARil:S !Nov. 23-Dec. 21): You can l;t't ahm~ well '"'lth fanulv member~ Clear up existuig problem·s 
once and tur all 

CAPRICORP\ (Dec. 22-jan. 20): Commumci'l.te \nth \'our mcite. Plea­sure trips \\'ill re~ult in a better under­standing of your rl'iationsh1p 
AQUARILS Ijan. 21-Feb. 18): You c_an make l'\.tri'l money through part­hme jobs and "111art long-term inn:'st­ments. Be prt·pared to help older members of ,·our famll\'. 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): :\ew relationship; will develop through t~1e group~ you JOin. You wtll be emo­twnal i'!.nd take wmments too serious­ly. 
Born T?da~: This can be _one of your best year~ ~·t•t If ~'ou're "'illing to accept the mev1table, move wtth the hmes and learn t~1 lin• moderatelv. You\·e gt~t s~m1e terrific. ideas_ and if you take the time to t•ninrce them proper!~· ~·ou w1ll fmd yourselt walkmg the road to success. 
• 0~ INTER~ST 

Guest*irtlst David Briitman will present a piano concert Sunday afternoon (September 28) at 2 pm in the Annenberg Auditorium of the Snite Museum ()f Art Works by Schubert. Tickets-$6 gener­al admiss~()n and $3 students and senior citizens-are available at the door and the LaFortune box Office. Call1·6201 for more information, 
•MENU South.As 
Buffalo Hot Wings Canadian Cheese Soup Meat Ravioli Fried Rice Chili Sombrero 
North New England Clam Chowder Beef Fajitas Cheese Enchiladas Nacho and Pizza Bites Vegetable Egg Rolls 

Wanted: Reporters, photographers and editors. 
a


Join The Observer staff. 
House of Smooth 
•---_ sponsored by ~ 
, ...... ~ 
·­

Instructions:  
I. Cut tie along dotted line and remove  ',THIS WEEKEND  
2. Place tape along back of tie and place upon shirt 3. Send out the vibe with true SUB style  Hercu./es at Cushing  
4. Attend all SUB events this weekend  Thursday  !0:30pm  
5. Become a POP ICON  Friday  8 & !0:30pm  
Saturday  8 & !0:30pm  



SPORTS Wee 
en 


page 20 Friday, September 16, 199"' 


Golf team seeks third straight title 
By DAN CICHALSKJ Assisranr Managing Ediwr 
When the Notre Dame men's golf team attempts to capture its third straight Big East cham­pionship this weekend, it will 
have an advantage over the rest of the field. 
The Irish will be play­ing on their home course. 
"That will 

d e f i n i t e I y Weeks give vs an advantage," senior Brad Stanis said Thursday before teeing off with sophomore Adam Limbach. They were out at the par-72 Blackthorn Golf Club yesterday to determine who will be Notre Dame's fifth player this weekend. 
"It's a tough course," Stanis continued. "But I like the team's chances. Everyone on the team feels good about this weekend." 
Notre Dame won the last two Big East titles by narrow mar­gins. In 1995, the Irish trailed going into the last round but rallied to capture first place. Last year, Notre Dame held a 12-stroke lead over Georgetown beginning the final round and held on for a one-stroke victory. 
The lloyas look strong again this year after winning the Seton Hall Pirate Golf Invitational, which included Big East teams St. John's and Seton 
see GOLF I page 18 
• Mrrls SOCCER 


Irish face Big East foes 
By DAN LUZIETTI and TOM STUDEBAKER Sporrs Wrirers 
The Notre Dame men's soc­cer team has a very important weekend coming up as it faces the Villanova Wildcats and the Hutgers Scarlet Knights. All three teams arc currently tied for third place in the Big East with records of 2-0-1, behind Georgetown and Pittsburgh. 
"This is going to be a very important weekend for thn team," said coach Mike Berticelli. "It is not a make-or­break situation as far as Big East play. A win counts as a win no matter who you play, but it would be nice to walk away with two wins and put some distance between us in the standings." 
On Friday night at Alumni Field, Notre Dame will face Villanova. The Wildcats bring in an overall record of 3-2-2. Villanova is led by sophomon~ Donovan llornsby, who loads the team in scoring with three goals and thren assists. Senior forward James Cocoran has added three goals and two assists to the Wildcats' attack this season. 
Last year, Villanova came away with a 2-1 victory over the Irish. In the three games that these two teams have played, the Wildcats hold a 2-1 series advantage. 
"Villanova is a very physical team," said Bcrticelli. "In the past, we have played them very dosely. It promises to be a bat­tle on the field." 
Rutgers brings in a com­pletely different style of play. The Scarlet Knights harbor deep resentment towards the Irish after Notre Dame upset them to win the Big East cham­pionship. However, B.utgers leads the series with Notre Dame 3-1. 
"Hutgcrs is a good team with very talented individuals," 
seeM. SOCCER I page 17 

• WOM!::i'lS SOCCER 

Rolling Irish head east 
By ALLISON KRILLA Sporrs Wrirer 
After a thrilling weekend playing before a sold-out crowd at Alumni Field against national powerhouse North Carolina and a ranked Duke team in the adi­das/LadyFootlocker Classic. Notre Dame takes to the road to face Big East conference opponents Rutgers and Villanova. 
With these games, the Irish (7-0-1) begin a stretch that includes six road-trips broken up only by a visit from Boston College on Oct. 5. Eight of Notre Dame's remaining 11 regular season contests are against Big East foes, making the second-half of the season critical for the Irish. 
Entering tonight's game, the Irish have compiled a perfect 10-0 record versus Big East opponents on the road, and a 19-1 overall mark in regular season conference play, since joining the Big East in 1995. 
The Rutgers Scarlet Knights {3-5, 1-2) are coming off a 3-1 win over North Carolina State, and face the Irish for the first time since a 6-0 loss at Alumni Field in 1996. Overall, the Irish hold a 4-0-1 advantage over the Scarlet Knights. 
Rutgers returns seven starters from a team that fin­ished 14-7 last season, plac­ing third in the Big East with a 6-3 mark, including Shannon Nagle, who ranks fifth among Big East scoring leaders with 13 points. 
Sunday's match-up pits the Irish against the Wildcats of Villanova. who, despite their 3-4 record, upset Penn State earlier this fall. Under first­year head coach Ann Clifton, the Wildcats arc looking to build on last year's 5-5 con­ference record at the exponse of the Irish. 
Notre Dame, however. brings a potent offense and stingy defense to the East Coast this weekend. 
Sophomore midf'ielder Jenny Strciffer leads the charge on offense, with fplJow sophomore Jenny Heft rlosn behind. Strcif'f<~r·s 19 points on the year give hnr a sharn or the 14th position on the na­tion's scoring leader board and top billing among Big East players, while her nine assists place third among the country's best. After netting 12 goals in her rookie cam­paign, Heft has been on fire, 
see W. SOCCER I page 18 

• JOCK STRIP 

Athletics: games or business? 
the Notre Dame foot­
ball team prepares to 
o battle with Michigan tomorrow, the game, as it should be, will be televised nationally via ABC televi-------~~---­
sion. By JOHN 
Notre COPPOLELIA 0 a m. e _ Sporrs Columnist Michigan is one of college football's best rivalries, and the tele­cast should be a prolitable for ABC, even though NO's record is not quite where ev· eryone thought it would be. 
Indeed. an undefeated Irish team facing an unde­feated Wolverine team would have been dubbed its "game of the year" and would have promised ABC its bigges1 crowd of the year. Th€ inevitable loss of viewers and the subsequent loss of rev· enue for ABC once agair reminds us that, as pure anc entertaining it is, collcgf football is a business. 
College football isn't only I business, it's big business Every sport at every uni versity from volleyball h• fencing to basketball is • business, and each and ever"' sport generates some sort cf revenue for that given uni­versity. 
The athletes who pla,.1 these sports are, in som3 cases, given scholarships i:J order to attract them to pla.t these sports for a universit) . This scholarship is in manw ways a "payment" to thes= athletes, giving them a frtB education and a place t:::l showcase their talent at 3 place as renowned as Notr=:J Dame. However, the que~­tion arises of whether or n<·t these athletes should recei'\le payment based on their pe:-­formance. 
Bowl appearances gene:-­ate millions for a colie~ e football team and success m other athletics generates re"'­enue on a lesser scale. S3, should student-athletes l e paid based on their perfo-­mance? 
The answer to this que3­tion is going to be the saiie whether you ask a coac1, administrator, or even Ute athletes themselves -no. 
But this question does Je~d into the debate ragiLg through college athletics a•d the NCAA board of direct<rs over whether or not studeLt­athletes on scholarship should be allowed to work a job in order to earn ext::-a money. 
Last year, the NCAA bo~d of directors, in a move whch was scrutinized and uU­mately delayed for a ye1..r, 
see STRIP I page J 8 


a;
at Michigan, 
vs. St. John's, 

• Women's lnterhall Football 
Tomorrow, 2:30p.m. 
~ October 3, 7 p.m. 
'C 
see page l.S
vs. Villanova, 
Volleyball, at Carroll College, ...... 

Today, 7:30p.m. 
'· Tomorrow, 3 p.m. 

¥,, •Marv Albert pleads guilty 
'·~/ ~ 
at Rutgers, 

Cross Country, at Adrian, see page li 
Today, 7:30p.m. 
Tomorrow, II a.m.
~ ~ 


-~~­

---~----~---­
---------... 
Irish Insider • STATISTICALLY SPEAKING Friday, September 26, 1997 


FIGHTIN' IRISH 
Scoring  1st  2nd  3rd  4th  Total  Average Per Game  356.7  377.7  
ND  7  20  0  14  41  Kickoff Returns: #-Yards  15-280  5-130  Passing  Effie.  Att-Cmp-lnt Pet  Yds  TO  Avg/G  
Opponents  21  20  3  20  64  Punt Returns: #-Yards  6-31  9-92  Powlus  119.86  109-72-3  66.1  691 2  230.3  
tnt Returns: #-Yards  4-38  3-11  Smith  0.00  1-0-0  0-0  0  0  0  
Team Statistics  ND  Opp  Kickoff Return Average  18.7  26.0  Kick Returns  No  Yds  Avg  TO  
Scoring  41  64  Punt Return Average  5.2  10.2  Rossum  7  136  19.4  0  
Points Per Game  13.7  21.3  tnt Return Average  9.5  3.7  Denson  5  93  18.6  0  
First Downs  65  64  Fumbles-Lost  3-1  1-0  Driver  2  28  14.0  0  
Rushing  25  31  Penalties-Yards  19-171  18-145  Receiving  No  Yds  Avg  TO  Avg/G  
Passing  37  30  Average Per Game  57.0  48.3  Brown  21  201  9.6  1  67.0  
Penalty  3  3  Denson  13  138  10.6  1  46.0  
Rushing Yardage  379  532  Individual Statistics  Johnson  11  112  10.2  0  37.3  
Yards Gained Rushing  452  584  O'Leary  5  68  13.6  0  34.0  
Yards Lost Rushing  73  52  Rushing  All  Net  Avg  TD  Avg/G  Getherall  5  47  9.4  0  47.0  
Rushing Attempts  106  131  Denson  61  234  3.8  3  78.0  Field Goals  FGM-FGA  Avg  
Average Per Rush  3.6  4.1  Goodspeed  18  81  4.5  0  27.0  Sanson  2-3  66.7  
Average Per Game  126.3  177.3  Powlus  16  40  2.5  0  13.3  Punting  No  Yds  Avg  Long TB  120  
TD's Rushing  3  5  Driver  4  13  3.3  0  4.3  Smith  15  656  43.7  64  1  4  
Passing Yardage  691  601  Spencer  3  6  2.0  0  2.0  
Att-Comp-lnt  110-72-3  80-49-4  Punt Returns  No  Yds  Avg  TO  Defensive Statistics  
Average Per Pass  6.3  7.5  Rossum  5  18  3.6  0  UT  AT  Total  For-Loss Sacks-Yds lnt-Yds  
Average Per Catch  9.6  12.3  Denson  1  13  13.0  0  Dansby  14  17  31  3-20  0.5-18  0-0  
Average Per Game  230.3  200.3  Friday  15  14  29  0-0  1-5  0-0  
TD's Passing  2  1  Interceptions  No  Yds  Avg  TO  Bryant  13  11  24  3-6  2-7  0-0  
The Observer/Kevin Datum  Total Oflense  1070  1133  Minor  2  37  18.5  0  Covington 14  9  23  0-0  0-0  0-0  
Receiver Malcolm Johnson ranks third on the Irish with 11 receptions.  Total Plays Average Per Play  216 5.0  211 5.4  Rossum Guilbeaux  1 1  1 0  1.0 0.0  0 0  Minor Sanders  10 8  10 9  20 17  3-7 0-0  0.5-3 0-0  2-37 0-0  
\NOLVERINES  
Scoring  1st  2nd  3rd  4th  Total  Net Punting  37.1  35.1  
Michigan  14  17  21  13  65  Kickoff Ret!Yds/Avg  3/73/24.3  7/138/19.7  Punting  No  Yds  Avg  Blk  
Opponent  3  0  3  0  6  Fumbles/Lost  3/2  2/0  Vinson  7  313  44.7  0  
Penalties/Yds  21/183  15/131  Griese  2  76  38.0  0  
Team Statistics  UM  Opp  3rd Dwn Cnv/AtVPct  13/30/43.3  10/33/30.3  Field Goals  FGAIFGM  
First Downs  51  24  Time Of Possession  69:49  50:11  Baker  2/4  
Rushing  22  9  Feely  1/2  
Passing  25  13  Individual Statistics  Punt Returns  No  Yds  Avg  TO  
Other  4  2  Rushing  Att  Net Yds  Avg  TO  Avg/G  Woodson  7  40  5.7  0  
Total Net Yards  958  378  Howard  31  152  4.9  2  76.0  Shaw  2  23  11.5  0  
Total Plays  160  127  Thomas  30  142  4.7  1  71.0  Whitley  1  5  5.0  0  
Avg. Per Play  6.0  3.0  Williams  21  119  5.7  0  59.5  Kick Off Returns  No  Yds  Avg  TO  
Avg. Per Game  479  189  Floyd  8  27  3.4  1  27.0  Williams  3  73  24.3  0  
Net Rushing Yards  486  141  Schanski  3  18  6.0  1  9.0  
Total Attempts  102  55  Passing  All  Cmp  tnt  Yds  TO  Avg/G  Eft  Defense  UT  AT  Tot  Tfi-Yd S-Yd  
Avg. Per Play  4.8  2.6  Griese  50  34  1  427 3  213.5  155.5  Sword  11  2  13  2-3  0-0  
Avg. Per Game  243.0  70.5  Brady  7  6  0  44  0  22.0  138.5  Hendricks  8  5  13  2-5  0-0  
Net Passing Yards  472  237  Kapsner  1  1  0  1  0  1.0  108.4  Ray  7  5  12  1-3  0-0  
AtVCmp/lnt  58/41/1  72/31/5  Receiving  No  Yds  Avg  TO  Avg/G  Jones  7  3  10  0-0  0-0  
Avg. Per Att.  8.1  3.3  Tuman  6  149  24.8  0  74.5  Woodson  9  1  10  3-11  0-0  
Avg. Per Camp.  11.5  7.6  Woodson  3  74  24.7  1  37.0  Hall  6  2  8  1-16  0-0  
Avg. Per Game  236.0  118.5  Williams  6  54  9.0  0  27.0  Weathers  6  2  8  0-0  0-0  
Punts/Avg/Bik  10/38.5/0  18/38.8/0  Streets  7  49  7.0  0  24.5  Mayes  5  2  7  1-3  0-0  Courtesy of Michigan Sports Information  
Punt Ret/Yds/Avg  10/68/6.8  3/14/4.7  Howard  7  47  6.7  1  23.5  Wolverine tailback Clarence Williams  
ranks third on the team with 119 yards.  


Visa/Mastercard Accepted [II' Voted "Best Delivered Pizzo" The 1997, '96, '95, '94, & '93 Best of Michiana 




-----~~-~-­
Friday, September 26, 1997 Irish Insider • THE MATCH-UPS page 3 
IRISH ON THE OffENSIVE••• 
w:
th the inability of the Irish offense to find the promised land with any regularity, scoring just 41 points in their first three games, facing the Michigan defense is not exactly what Ron Powlus and Co. need to get on track. 
To make things worse, offensive tackle Chris Clevenger and Joey Goodspeed are out, and Joey Getherall is doubtful. Also plagued by an injury is Shannon Stephens, who has yet to see action. 
Head coach Bob Davie's main concern on offense has been the execution and ability to maintain drives and find the end zone. 
''I'm very comfortable with our scheme offensively," he said. "The No. 1 thing we need to do is exe­cute better. What we need to do is get rewards for moving the ball." 
While Bobby Brown has stepped up and amassed 21 receptions on the year, the Irish have still not been able to find a playmaker. With the loss of Stephens and Getherall, the receiving corps lost some of their burners. 
"We continue to need somebody to make big plays," Davie said. "I think Tony Driver can give us a spark, and I think that Jabari Halloway is a young guy that can run and catch as a tight end. We do have some athleticism, particu­larly in this freshman class." 
Another member of that fresh­man class who is trying to step up as a playmaker is Darcy Levy. He continues to work out at receiver after starting out as a tailback. 
The receiving corps will be chal­lenged come Saturday as Michigan is led by everyone's all­American Charles Woodson. 
"Obviously Charles Woodson is a guy that jumps out at you," Davie said when discussing Michigan's defense. "He has the ability to take a receiver out of the game." 

Woodson's supporting cast is not too shabby either. The Wolverines rank first in the nation in total defense, yielding just 189 yards a game, and no opponent has yet to find the end zone against the Maize and Blue. Michigan has allowed just two field goals in its wins over Colorado and Baylor. 
The Irish offensive line will have to be on top of its game for the full 60 minutes with no apparent weakness in Michigan's defense. 
"They are real big and real physical up front," Davie said. "They alternate a lot of inside line­backers, and they're talented." 
The Irish do have a couple of things going for them. Greg Mattison was Michigan's defensive coordinator for the past two years, and they run the same system. Notre Dame also has the challenge of playing a top 10 team with the opportunity to prove themselves and turn the season around. 
"When you look at them, they play basically the same scheme we play on defense," Davie said. "It's really a carbon copy of what we play." 
"The only way to feel better is to play better," Davie said. "So, we've got a big, big challenge, but I know our football team does like a challenge, and it's a big oppo­nent. We've got to keep working and fighting through it." 
-Joe Cavato 

••• WOlVERINES ON THE OFFENSIVE 

A !though Michigan's offense J-\.does not put up quite the num­bers that Michigan State does, it will bring a well-balanced attack onto the field tomorrow. Like the Spartans, the Wolverines feature a three-deep backfield that is aver­aging 243 yards per game. The Wolverine backfield stars senior Chris Howard, who has con­tributed a pair of touchdowns in the last two games and averages 76 yards per game. Alternating with Howard will be junior Clarence Williams and true fresh­man Anthony Thomas, who have combined for 261 yards in the last two games. 
In addition to three tailbacks, the Wolverines alternate two full­backs, so the Irish defensive line, which has given up 532 yards rushing in the last two games, will have to step up its performance in a big way. This could be a difficult task for the Irish since they have once again lost defensive end Corey Bennett, who reinjured his knee last week, and is still missing linebacker Bobbie Howard due to injury. 
Leading the Wolverine offense will be senior quarterback Brian Griese, who beat out junior Scott Driesbach for the starting job with strong performances against both Colorado and Baylor. Griese has averaged 213 yards passing thus far, and has completed 68 percent of his passes (34 for 50, 427 yds.). 
Griese also has a couple of reli­able receivers in 6-foot-5, 233 pound tight end Jerame Tuman and junior wide out Charles Woodson. If the Irish thought that Michigan State's Sedrick Irvin was an all-around threat on offense ­rushing, receiving, and even con­tributing a halfback pass -Woodson brings new definition to the word. Woodson plays on both sides of the ball for the Wolverines, and also is their lead­ing punt returner. 
Still, stopping the run will be the main objective of the Irish defense against the Wolverines, and Irish head coach Bob Davie hopes that improving the communication within the unit might help accom­plish this. The Irish will have junior outside linebacker Kory Minor doing the play-calling this week, which should hopefully pro­vide a bit of an emotional spark to the defense which is worn down by injury and inexperience. 
Overall, the major concern of the Irish defense will lie in finding a way to get the ball back into the hands of its offense, and doing so in as quick a manner as possible as to avoid overworking an already weary unit. 
-Betsy Baker 
I 

Quarterbacks 
Quality receivers have transformed Griese from a mediocre to a QB. Powlus will never shake the scapegoat label but is more experienced and a better pure passer. 
Running Backs ~ 
The Irish are down to MICHIGAN one proven healthy back in Denson, while the Wolverine stable is stacked with Howard and Co. 

Receivers ~ 
Tight e.nd Tuman was MICHIGAN all-Big Ten last year and shows no signs of letting up. Tai Streets has a cool name and is coming off a stellar sophomore campaign. 

Offensive Line 

The inconsistency of 1}1~A~ I 
the Irish gives a young Wolverine line the edge here. They are big as usual and appear to have come together already this season. 

Defensive Line ~ 
The Wolverines are MICHIGAN huge up front and return all three starters, including Renes who is a tank at 6-foot-1, 286 pounds. Notre Dame is still looking for the right mix . 

Linebackers ~ 
and Co~-MICHIGAN enhaver are experi­enced and always around the ball, teaming up for a 173 tackles last year. The defense is one of the best at stopping the run and the 'backers play a big role in that. 

Secondary ~ 
All-world triple threat MICHl GAN Charles Woodson alone gives UM the edge, but his supporting cast is excellent as well. 


~ Special Teams 
N Rossum and Wood­
:J\7(Jj :::~s:re ~:~g~~~~: 
return men in the land. Smith helps the Irish cause despite last week's coverage lapses. 

Coaching ~ 
Carr's crew has taken M.ICH.IGAN care of business, easily disposing of Colorado and Baylor. Davie and his staff are searching for answers. 

Overall 

The Irish traditionally~
play well in the "Big MICHIGAN House," but they don't traditionally lose to Purdue. Michigan is ranked sixth, and ND didn't receive a vote last week. 
page 4 Irish Insider· COVER STORY Friday, September 26, 1997 

The Observer/Brandon Candura Receiver Bobby Brown, shown here being covered by Michigan State cornerback Ray Hill, has earned the status of "go-to" guy on the Irish and hopes to raise his game to another level when the Irish travel to Ann Arbor this Saturday and attempt to upset Michigan. 



Brown leads 'new edition' of receivers 
By KATHLEEN LOPEZ 
Assistanc Spotts Editor 
In a season of so much transition, one of the major changes on the football team has gone unnoticed. Junior Bobby Brown has played behind the likes of Irish great Derrick Mayes and backed up Emmett Mosely last year. All of a sudden, Brown has burst onto the scene this year in a crucial offensive role. 
Currently, he is on pace to break the Irish record of receptions in a season, which is held by Tom Gatewood at 77. In the first three games of this season, Brown has chalked up seven receptions per game, totaling 201 yards. 
"It is more like one of those things where you see what happens," Brown replied about a possible record-break­ing season. "I really haven't thought about it to tell you the truth. This is only the fourth game, and things haven't gone so well offensively, so that's more of my focus right now. If it happens it would be a good thing, but I'm really not concentrating on it." 
"I played behind Derrick Mayes my freshman year, and Mosely and Cikai Champion last year," Brown said. "They just told me to always believe and that my day was going to come." 
Receivers coach Urban Meyer charac­terizes Brown as a "classy kid" who has grown up tremendously in the past few years. 
Brown has attributed much of his maturation to participating in track, where he runs the 400 meters and the mile relay. 
"Track was a confidence builder for me," Brown stated. "I did both in high school, and I did well in both. When I started to do well in track here, I ques­tioned why I wasn't doing well in foot­ball. I realized that college wasn't that different from high school and by run­ning track, I matured." 
Brown attended St. Thomas Aquinas in Lauderhill, Fla. In high school, he was a SuperPrep All-American and ranked 13th among wide receivers in the nation. The four-year standout in football and track was heavily recruited by all of the Florida schools, the University of Michigan, as well as Boston College. 
"I never thought that I would come here," said Brown. "I thought that it was too cold, and it was too far from home. I had the same ideas and the same stereotypes that everyone has when I first got recruited by them." 
The clincher for Brown was when he came for a visit and was taken aback by not only the team, but the University as a whole. 
"The tradition and mystique of Notre Dame really got to me on my visit," Brown said. "The players treated me like one of their own, so I felt like I was home." 
The 6-foot-3 Brown saw action as wide receiver in eight games in the 1996 season excluding the Vanderbilt, Ohio State, and Southern Cal games. He had two receptions last year. One 49­yard reception came in the Pittsburgh game and added one 35-yard catch against Rutgers. 
"Last year at this time, he wasn't trav­eling so that's a lot of improvement," Meyer said. "He wasn't even part of the team. He was just a guy that was there. He has grown into and worked his way into being one of the best receivers." 
"His greatest asset is he really knows the offense, and he does a nice job of getting open," Meyer said. "lie has caught the ball well, and he has been the guy that has come up with a lot of third down catches for us. He has 21 catches in three games which is pretty good. The leading receiver here last year had 25 catches so he is having a good year." 
The emergence of Brown this year has helped the offense as far as the receiv­ing corps. This also puts him in the spotlight as far as the offensive prob­lems go. 
"First of all, I can't get down on myself nor can I get down on my teammates," Brown said about his responsibilities at this point in the season. "By showing my teammates and my coaches that I believe in the system and that I believe in us, that's the number one thing that I can do to give us a boost." 
"I think that's what each one of us can do to give the team a boost," Brown sug­gested. "I think this is the number one thing that the team can do to show that we still believe in this and that we can turn this thing around." 
Brown remains positive about the remainder of the season, he said. "We have to take it one step at a time. Start with Michigan and focus on Michigan. We need to take it one step at a time and realize that you can't have hind­sight in college football. You can't look behind you because you need to focus on this week's game. And then go from there." 
With the bleak start of this year's sea­son, fans are skeptical about the future of Notre Dame football. "I fully expect us to be outstanding at receiver if Bobby continues to work hard," Meyer said. 

Fans can rest assured that with Brown's performance in the last three games, the offensive unit rests in good hands. 

Friday, September 26, 1997 Irish Insider • THE TEAMS page 5 

In the Spo 

Mter struggling much of the year, the Notre Autry Denson at the same time. Ken Barry is Dame running game will have to raise its level another option. The task will be tough for the of play if they are to have any chance of upset­group as the Wolverines have size and experi­ting Michigan. With Joey Goodspeed injured, ence up front. Led by Glen Steele, Rob Renes, the Irish hope Jamie Spencer will be at full and Josh Williams, Michigan gives up just 70.5 speed on Saturday. If not, they may utilize yards a game on the ground. The Irish will cer­freshman Tony Driver in the backfield with tainly have their work cut out for them. 
1st 
3rd

season season
at at
Notre 
Dame 
Career record: 1-2 Career record: 19~0 
At Notre Dame: 1-2 At Michigan: 19-8-0 
Against Michigan: 0-0 Against Notre Dame: 0-0 
No. Name Pos. HI. WI. YR No. Name Pos. HI. WI. YR 
1 Deke Cooper FS 6-3 209 so 2 Charles Woodson CB 6-1 197 JR 
2 Benny Guilbeaux ss 6-1 207 JR 3 Todd Brooks WR 6-0 193 SA 
3 Ron Powlus QB 6-3 225 SA 3 Brandon Komblue PK 5-10 160 JR 
4 Kory Minor OLB 6-1 234 JR 4 David Downs CB 5-7 167 JR 
5 A'jani Sanders ss 5-11 188 JR 4 Russell Shaw WR 6-0 180 SA 
6 Malcolm Johnson SE 6-5 213 SA 5 James Whijley DB 6-0 180 FR 
7 Jarious Jackson QB 6·0 219 JR 
6 Manus Edwards TB 5-8 178 so 8 Eric Chappell QB 6-4 213 so 
7 Chris Floyd FB 6-1 227 SR 9 Raki Nelson FL 5-11 189 so 
8 Chris Howard RB 5-11 214 SA 10 Deveron Harper CB 5-11 185 so 
8 Ryan Parini FS 6-2 179 so 11 Jay Johnson SE 6-0 186 so 
9 DiAIIo Johnson FS 6-3 185 JR 12 Scott Cengia K 5-10 181 SA 
10Tom Brady QB 6-5 215 JR 12 Mario Strayhorn OLB 6-1 214 JR 
12 Scott Dreisbach QB 6-4 208 SR 13 Jimmy Friday ILB 6-2 227 JR 
13Jason Kapsner QB 6-6 220 so 14 Ivory Covington CB 5-10 169 SA 
14 Brian Griese QB 6-3 207 SR 15 Allen Aossum CB 5-8 179 SA 
15 De Wayne Patmon DB 6-1 183 FR 16 Zak Kustok QB 6-2 190 FA 
16 Brent Washington CB 6-0 184 JR 17 Hunter Smith p 6-2 210 JR 
17 Chad Henman WR 5-10 181 so 18 Cikai Champion SE 5·10 183 SA 
18 LeAundre Brown CB 5-10 177 so 18 Joey Getherall WR 5·9 165 FA 
18Mark Bergin QB 6-2 195 JR 19 Jim Sanson K 5-9 179 so 
19Aaron Wright WR 6-0 172 so 19 WayneGunn OLB 6-2 210 JR 
• ·-:<-~ ~-: 201an Gold RB 6-1 200 so 20 Kevin Kopka K 5-7 214 JR 
22 Kevin Bryant WR 6-0 175 JR 20 Byron Joyner FS 6-1 188 JR 
23 William Peterson DB 6-0 197 FA 21 Shannon Stephens FL 5·10 175 JR 
23 Scott Parachek WR 6-1 191 SR 22 Jay Vickers TB 5-11 218 so 
24 Patrick McCall RB 5-11 189 FA 23 Autry Denson TB 5-10 184 JR 
25Terrence Quinn WR 5-10 187 SR 24 Ty Goode CB 5-11 184 SA 
26Eric Mayes ILB 5-11 220 SA 25 Tony Driver TB 6-3 205 FA 
27 Demetrius Smith FB 6-2 265 FA 26 Lee Lafayette CB 5-9 189 so 
28Daydrion Taylor FS 6-0 192 JR 27 Bobbie Howard ILB 5·10 228 JR 
29 Colby Keefer TE 6-3 250 SA 28 Ken Barry FB 6-0 221 SA 
30Andre Weathers CB 6-0 183 SA 29 Cooper Rego TB 5-9 185 FA 
31 Kenneth Jackson CB 5-10 179 JR 30 Jarvis Edison FS 6-4 221 SA 
FLANKER 32 Anthony Thomas RB 6-1 220 FA 31 Darcey Levy RB 6-2 195 FA 
88;.srown 33 Clarence Williams RB 5-9 196 JR 32 Clement Stokes TB 6-0 205 SA 
9-Nelson 
34John Anes FB 6-2 224 so 33 Jamie Spencer FB 6-1 248 JR 
35 Ray Jackson TB 6-4 210 FR 34 Ronnie Nicks ILB 6·0 220 so 
36 Bob Fraumann LB 6-3 210 FR 35 Robert Phelps CB 6-0 189 SA 
36 Aaron Shea TE 6-4 250 JR 36 Chris Wachtel p 5-11 207 SA 
37 Kurt Anderson LB 6-5 240 FA 36 Tim Lynch CB 5-9 177 SA 
38Jason Vinson p 6-2 194 SR 37 Ron Israel DB 6-1 175 FA 
39J.R. Ford RB 5-8 184 JR 37 Kevin Rice FB 6-0 200 SA 
40Eric Rosel DB 6-3 200 FA 38 Brock Williams CB 5-11 175 FA 
41 Tommy Hendricks CB 6-2 200 so 38 Paul Grimm CB 5-9 170 SA 
41 Jimi Hendrix Kind 6-6 145 BUD 39 Anthony Denman LB 6-3 205 FA 
42 Tate Schanski RB 5-11 191 JR 40 Jason Murray FB 6-2 235 FA 
43Ciint Copenhaver OLB 6-4 237 SA 40 Brendan Farrell ss 5·11 215 so 
44Rob Swett ILB 6-3 229 SA 41 Joe Ferrer OLB 6-2 230 so 
45 Darren Patterson WR 5-10 172 SA 42 Antwoine Wellington ILB 6-0 237 so 
45 Jeff Holtry OLB 6-3 235 so 43 Grant Irons ILB 6-5 225 FA 
46 Kraig Baker PK 6-1 188 SA 44 Mike Tribe ILB 5-10 215 FA 
49Jay Feely PK 5-10 190 SA 45 Joey Goodspeed FB 6-0 225 so 
49 Matt Johnson ss 5-10 180 JR 45 Chris McCarthy K 5-11 205 SA 
50 David Crispin ILB 6-1 234 SR 46 Kevin Dansby LB 6-2 210 FA 
51 Eric Brackens LB 6-2 208 FA 47 Bill Mitoulas OLB 6-1 225 SA 
52 Chris Zeimann OT 6-7 270 JR 48 Johnathan Herbert WR 5-11 194 so 
53 Ben Huff DT 6-4 273 SR 49 Joe Thomas ILB 6-2 223 JR 
54 Maurice Williams DL 6-7 280 FA 50 David Payne c 6-0 281 JR 
55 Dhani Jones ILB 6-2 220 so 51 Melvin Dansby DE 6-4 276 SA 
56 James Hall DE 6-3 250 JR 52 Alex Mueller OG 6-6 270 JR 
57 Chris Singletary OLB 6-2 240 SA 53 Lamont Bryant OLB 6-3 243 JR 
58 Rob Renes NT 6-1 279 JR 54 Luke Petitgout OT 6-5 287 SA 
59 Grady Brooks OLB 6-2 256 so 55 Shelton Jordan DE 6-3 241 JR 
60 Nate Miller OG/C 6-3 264 SA 56 Kurt Belisle DE 6-2 266 SA 
63 Eric Warner OG 6-5 250 so 57 Rick Kaczenskl c 6-4 258 SA 
64Steve Frazier c 6-4 280 JR 58 Brendan O'Connor OG 6-2 294 so 
65Andy Sechler OLB 6-1 197 so 58 Mike Burgdorf TE 6-0 205 JR 
66 Bill Seymour DL 6-4 227 FR 59 Matthew Kunz ILB 6-0 215 SA 
67 David Brandt c 6-4 276 so 60 Scott Fagan OLB 6-2 219 so 
68 Zach Adami OG 6-5 282 SR 62 Casey Robin OL 6-7 285 FA 
69Todd Mossa OL 6-4 295 FR 64 John Merandi c 6-3 272 so 
70Ben Mast OL 6-5 285 FR 65 Anthony Brannan ss 5-11 194 so 
71 Jeff Potts OT 6-7 290 JR 66 JW Jordan OL 6-1 284 FA 
73Paul Tannous OT 6-5 270 so 67 John Wagner OT 6-7 320 JR 
74Jason Brooks OL 6-4 267 FR 70 Tim Ridder OG 6-7 298 JR 
75Adam Adkins OL 6-4 260 FR 71 Jerry Wisne OG 6-6 295 JR 
,__ , 76 Steve Hutchinson OG 6-5 293 so 72 Leon Hires OG 6-4 287 so 
77 Jon Jansen OT 6-7 298 SA 73 Mike Doughty OT 6-7 303 SA 
78 Noah Parker OG 6-4 283 SR 74 Rob Mowl OG 6-5 294 so 
79 Jeff Backus OT 6-6 273 so 75 Chris Clevenger OT 6-8 312 SA 
80Jerame Tuman TE 6-5 233 SR 76 Kurt Vollers OL 6-7 275 FA 
81 Glen Steele DE 6-5 281 SR 77 Brad Williams DE 6-4 266 so 
82Chad Carpenter TE 6-4 243 so 78 Jon Spickelmier c 6-3 274 SA 
83Jerry Johnson WR 6-4 180 so 79 Mike Rosenthal OG 6-7 315 JR 
84 Shawn Thompson TE 6-4 220 FA 80 Justin Smith WR 6-1 185 FA 
85 Marcus Knight WR 6-1 180 so 81 Lewis Dawson SE 5-11 186 so 
85 Knight Rider CAR 6-0 1000 KITI 82 Mike Gandy TE 6-5 264 so 
86 T ai Streets WR 6-4 185 JR 83 Justin Orr FL 6-2 233 SA 
88 Mark Campbell TE 6-6 250 SA 84 Mike Denvir TE 6-4 243 SA 
90Juaquin Feazell DE 6-4 268 SR 85 Antwon Jones NG 6-3 267 JR 
91 Josh Williams DT 6-3 270 JR 86 Dan O'Leary TE 6-4 243 so 
92 Chad Stock PK 5-10 185 JR 87 Jabari Holloway TE 6-4 235 FA 
93Sam Sword ILB 6-2 242 SA 88 Bobby Brown FL 6-3 185 JR 
94 Eric Wilson DT 6-4 266 so 90 Lance Legree NG 6-1 271 so 
95Jeff Del Verne PK 5-11 217 so ­91 N. VanHook-DruckerDE 6-2 228 so 
95 Pat Kratus DE 6-3 260 JR 93 B.J. Scott DE 6-3 267 so 
97 Lance Ostrom TE 6-7 255 SR 94 Andy Wisne DL 6-5 255 FA 
99Jake Frysinger LB 6-4 235 FR 95 Corey Bennett NG 6-1 253 SA 
99Jeff Smokevitch ILB 6-0 207 JR 96 Jim Jones NG 6-2 280 so 97 Eric Glass DT 6-4 220 so 98 John Teasdale TE 6·6 255 FR 99 Jason Ching DE 6-3 235 so 
-
page 6 Irish Insider • THE INSIGHT Friday, September 26, 1997 
• IRISH INSIGHT 
Michigan leaves slumping Notre Dame in the dust 
O
nce apon a time there lived two giants. For a century, these two seemingly invincable giants battled it out to see once and for all who was king of the mountain. 
No matter how far one giant fell behind the other one, it always seemed that the giant would bounce back and return to its place next to the other giant at the top of the mountain. 
For over 100 years, Michigan and Notre Dame have been the two giants of college football. They rank one and two in all­time victories and in winning percentage. 
While they've cer­tainly had their share of ups and downs, no other schools have been able to sustain dominance quite like the Irish and Wolverines. A 5-6 record one year could translate into a national championship the next year. 
Over the past century, there has been no way to keep either of the two giants down for too long. 
Unfortunately, the time has come again to test the theory of the giants. One of the two giants has been brutally cut down at the knees and left gasping for air. 
Notre Dame, the fallen giant, limps into Ann Arbor having lost two straight games and its reputation as a power in college football. With its image out the window and given Michigan's surge to No. 6 in the polls, a victory over the Wolverines might be the ND's only chance of regaining a small amount of respectability. 
Can it happen? Can the Irish reach into their back pocket and find a little of that trademark "luck" this Saturday at Michigan? 
No way in Hell. 
The Wolverines are bigger, stronger, faster, and more experienced than the Irish. Add that to the fact that the Irish are playing in one of the nation's most hostile environments, and one can see that there is simply no way the Irish have any chance at all. 

When it comes down to it, Notre Dame lacks the speed and size that it takes to be a giant in college football. 
A week ago, a bigger, more physical Michigan State offensive line manhan­dled a much smaller Irish defensive line that was forced to start a pair of con­verted linebackers. And just two weeks ago, a quicker group of Purdue receivers ran circles around Notre Dame's sec­ondary. 
Offensively, Notre Dame lacks the playmakers that it takes to stretch a defense, and it's apparent that the Irish no longer possess the personnel to pound it down the throat of an opponent. 
To put it simply, given the cards they've been dealt, the Irish have no chance of beating the Wolverines on Saturday. In fact, they may not win another road game before a Thanksgiving weekend showdown with Hawaii. 
But don't blame the players. They are not laying down by any stretch of the imagination, and it is foolish to question the heart of any member of the Irish. 
And don't blame the coaches. They inherited this sinking ship at the wrong time and do not deserve to be miscon­strued as miracle workers. 
There is a much bigger reason for Notre Dame's 1-2 start. Three games into the Bob Davie era, we are seeing the ultimate results of the mediocre recruit­ing that took place the last three or four years under Lou Holtz. 
That is not to take anything from what Holtz accomplished in his 11 years with the Irish. He resurrected a floundering program and brought it back to the sta­tus of "giant." 
But ba,d luck with several key recruits coupled with a few subpar classes has left Notre Dame in the rut they find themselves in as they prepare for the Wolverines. 

Now, it is up to Davie to emulate what Holtz did before him and bring Notre Dame football back to the level it once shared with Michigan. 
It won't start on Saturday, and given the current state of the program, it may take awhile for Notre Dame to get back on top. Only time will tell if Davie and his staff are the true answer to the prob­lem. 
But as has been the case with the two giants for more than a century, the Irish will eventually regain their place at the top of the mountain. 

• THE IRISH INSIOER STAFF 
Editor: Mike Day Associate Editor: Betsy Baker Assistant Editors: Joe Cavato, Kathleen Lopez, Brian Reinthaler Graphic Design: Tom Roland, Jon King Statistician: Jim Belden Production: Mark DeBoy 
Cover: Ryan Mason, Brandon Candura 
PASTA SANDWICHES Delivering a Difference! ·SERVICE,& ,MO;RE!
..  .  .  .  ,.  •1,  
_._._  ~----­ 
Wolfie's serves SANDWICHES served on  
loaves that are baked FRESH daily!!  
Start by choosing two of these: Then top it off with Free extras:  
Ham Lettuce, Tomatoes,  
Turkey Onions, Green Peppers,  
Salami Mushrooms, Jalapenos,  
Pepperoni Cucumbers,  
Beef Strips Mayonnaise, Mustard,  
Chicken Strips Olive Oil, Vinegar, Bacon Strips Garlic Spread, Meatballs Marinara Sauce, American, Swiss, Cheddar Parmesan Cheese,  ~~S}~~~llJlSun-Thurs 10 am-1 am Fri-Sat 10 am-3 am  
or Mozzarella Cheese Salt, Pepper  




Small Sandwiches, only $2. 79, or grab a large for only $4.99 
Located conveniently in the Campus Shoppes 


IPiSh 
ExpePts? 

Mike Day (5-7) Sports Editor 
Michigan Purdue North Carolina 
UCLA 

Betsy Baker (7-5) Associate Sports Editor 
Notre Dame Northwestern North Carolina 
UCLA 

Joe Cavato (5-7) Assistant Sports Editor 
Michigan Northwestern North Carolina 
UCLA 

Kathleen Lopez (8-4) Assistant Sports Editor 
Notre Dame Purdue North Carolina 
UCLA 

Brian Reinthaler (3-9) Assistant Sports Editor 
Michigan Purdue North Carolina 
UCLA 

Chris Petrucelli Women's Soccer Coach/N.C. Hater 
Notre Dame Purdue Virginia 
UCLA 
, 

Friday, September 26, 1997 Irish Insider • THE NATI 0 N page 7 

ISH INSIDER 
e on the Nation 
Northwestern, Purdue set for battle 
UCLA hosts PAC-10 rival Arizona 
By BRIAN REINTHALER Assistant Sports Editor 
Northwestern at Purdue 
Okay, okay, I know what you're thinking. This ain't exactly a marquee match-up. But look closely. It bears plen­ty of significance for all of you Irish fans out there. Yes, that's right, it is the Battle of the Spoilers. In two of the last three seasons, one of these teams has gotten an early crack at crushing Notre Dame's preseason hopes and dreams, and both have taken full advantage of the opportu­nity. 
So far this season, the back­to-hack Big Ten champions have looked more like the "Mildcats" of yesteryear. Mter a season-opening victory over Oklahoma, Northwestern fell for the second straight season to Wake Forest, struggled to get by perennial ACC doormat Duke, and slipped yet another notch, falling to Rice (the 'Cats first home loss in 13 games) last weekend. 
Purdue, on the other hand, after dropping its opener to mighty Toledo, decided it would follow the example of the 1995 Northwestern squad and knock off Notre Dame. The Observer/Brandon Candura The least Purdue could do now Led by quarterback Billy Dicken, who torched Notre Dame for 352 yards just two weeks ago, Purdue will is beat the Wildcats and make 
host Big Ten opponent Northwestern this Saturday at Ross-Ade Stadium. 



TEAM RECORD POINTS PREV 
1. Florida (32) 3-0 1699 3 
2. Penn State (28) 3-0 1675 1 
3. Nebraska (7) 3-0 1601 7 
4. Florida State ( 1 ) 3-0 1530 5 5. N. Carolina (2) 3-0 1475 6 6. Michigan 2-0 1412 8 7. Ohio State 3-0 1287 9 8. Auburn 3-0 1180 12 9. Tennessee 2-1 1158 4 
10. Washingotn 2-1 1148 2 11. Iowa 3-0 1062 13 12. Michigan State 3-0 968 17 13. LSU 2-1 805 10 14. Viginia Tech 3-0 770 18 15. Washington St. 3-0 767 19 15. Colorado 1-1 725 15 17. Clemson 2-1 547 16 18. Kansas State 2-0 495 20 19. Georgia 3-0 444 25 20. Stanford 2-1 403 21 21. Alabama 2-1 329 11 22. Texas A&M 2-0 290 23. Brigham Young 1-1 215 24. UCLA 1-2 181 24 25. Arizona State 2-1 177 12 
OTHERS RECEIVING VOTES: Air Force 129, North Carolina State 73, Southern Mississippi 66, Pittsburgh 26, Wyoming 18, California 11, Colorado State 11, Oregon 11, Kansas 10, Texas 9, Oklahoma State 8, Arkansas 7, Kentucky 6, South Carolina 6, Miami 5, USC 5, Toledo 4, Boston College 1, Georgia Tech 1. 
-
a run at the Big Ten champi­onship, so that Irish fans everywhere can have even more excuses for their recent disappointments. 
in the nation, featuring Dre' Bly and Robert Williams. The unit has allowed just one touchdown pass in its first three contests. 

Virginia at No. 5 North Carolina 
This also may not look like a terrific match-up on paper, but there is some history worth noting. In each of the last two seasons, Virginia has pulled off at least one major upset in the course of its con­ference schedule. In 1995, the Cavaliers became the first ACC team to knock off Florida State, and a year ago, they rumbled back from a 17-3 deficit in the fourth quarter to beat the Tar Heels. Also, the last four meetings between these two squads have been decided by seven points are less. 
Since replacing Chris Keldorf at quarterback for North Carolina, Oscar Davenport has completed 72 percent of his passes and will look to exploit the Virginia secondary, which allowed 324 yards of passing in its opener versus Auburn. Cavalier field general Aaron Brooks should be tested by what many believe to be the premiere defensive backfield 

,_ 
Arizona at No. 24 UCLA 
Which UCLA team will show up this week? Does it matter? Two weeks ago, an 0-2 Bruin squad (losses to Tennessee and Washington State) trav­eled to Austin, Tex. and dis­patched with the Longhorns in historical fashion, 66-3. 
It remains to be seen whether Arizona can put up a fight, no matter which version of the 1997 Bruins takes the field on Saturday. UCLA played Tennessee tough down the stretch in their only home game thus far and now has the momentum to turn their sea­son around for good. 
Do not be too quick to count the Wildcats out, though, espe­cially if the Bruins jump out to an early lead. Should UCLA become complacent, Arizona will look to make a quick run, as they did a week ago in Colombus, Ohio. 
The Buckeyes grabbed a 28­0 first half advantage but barely held off the Wildcats in the fourth quarter for a 28-20 victory. 





---~-----------~--..------~-----~-~ ~---~-~­
'h vs. Wolverines 
Satul!'Jay9 Se]p>tem1bell' 279 1997 2g30 JP>olmo 
Michigan Stadium Ann All'1bl(])ll'9 Michigan 
·····nge 


CHANGE: 
usc Tues, Boston College Tues, 0 Navy Tues, Octo West Virginia Tues, Novembe 

LES OF THE EXCHANGE: 
exchange his/her ticket fo _six games. In game will be availa _. -­er ticket, he/she 
,­
-





