-----,---·--------~---~----------­


.r-,~~~-----------------------.~--------------------------------­
• SMC made a deci­sion last week regard­ing student possession of halogen lamps. 
p.7 

Friday, April4, 1997 • Vol. XXX No. 117 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 

One year later. .. 
• Ambivalence still dominates campus reactions to the Ad Hoc recommendations p. 3 

Congressional hearing plans future of federal aid_ 
By DAN CICHALSKI and DEREK BETCHER 
Associate News Editors 
A bipartisan educational panel agreed Thursday that America's government and institutions of higher education need to work together to help more individuals afford the rising costs of college tuition. 
In the process of reauthorizing the Higher Education Act, U.S. Representatives Tim Roemer (D-South Bend) and Fred Upton (R-St. Joseph, Mich.) assembled two panels comprised 

education.' Rep. Tim Roemer 
"The single most impor­
of college administrators, students cur­rently receiving financial aid and others to discuss possible remedies and amend­ments. The formal congressional hearing was held in the Hesburgh Center for International Studies yesterday after­noon. 
"We need to really keep our eye on the ball here and see why college tuition rates are going up at the degree that they are," Roemer said. "We need to concen­trate on making sure, whether you are a middle-class parent or lower-income parent, that you can access higher edu­
cation." 
"An investment in the people now," Upton said, "will pay dividends in the future. It's amazing for me to think about when I was a student that every student back then could earn enough during the summer through minimum wage to pay their own tuition check." 
Six administrators repre­senting different colleges and universities in northern Indiana and western Michigan formed the first panel which discussed 
issues such as accountabili­ty, affordability and accessi­bility in relation to college costs. 
•Men's
RISE 
lacrosse team TO THE readies for 4th-ranked

OCCASION 

Hofstra p. 28 

tant items in the Higher Education Act are the array of student aid programs," Notre Dame Provost Nathan Hatch said in his opening remarks. "The guiding principle for the subcommittee should be to preserve, and in some cases extend, the existing programs and to fund them at the current levels." 
Joining Hatch on the panel were Indiana University at South Bend Acting Chancellor Lester Lamon, Western Michigan University President Diether Haenicke, Bethel College President Norman Bridges, Lake Michigan College President Hichard Pappas and Ivy Tech State College Chancellor Carl Lutz. 
The general consensus among panel members and the congress­men was that these federal pro­grams must be continued, but improved. 
"We see these programs as a necessary complement to what we do," Haenicke said. "The programs 
•d The Observer/Shannon Dunne you [t.he governmentl provi e are Yesterday's panel reached a consensus regard­
essential for us. S~venty percent of ing the need for both continuing and improving o~r ..students receiVe some sort of federal aid programs. 
md. d d " H h 'd
"A lot of things need to be worked on at ~ur mo~t nee y stu ents, ate sai . the federal and state levels to ensure this !ts ~ss1stance to our students has been act works," Lutz added. VI~~l. 
The representatives of area institutions I urge Congress to restore the grant showed a strong interest in maintaining program as the central focus of federal effective programs like Pell Grants. "Pell Grants are a vital source of aid for see TUITION I page 6 

By ALLISON KOENIG 
Assistant News Editor 
AIDS patients will tell their stories to visitors in LaFortune Ballroom all next week, thanks to a hospital volunteer and the powers of the media. 
Project Face to Face is a non-profit organization that sponsors an interactive exhibit which tells the stories of people living with the AIDS virus. In the exhibit, a hand­crafted mask, modeled in the image of each patient, hangs above a tape player and a printed excerpt fr6m a 
recording. Viewers are able Jason Dilley, the artist who. to look into the faces of the conceived Project Face to victims and hear in the indi­Face, learned first-hand vidual's own words the reali­about AIDS through his vol­ty of life with AIDS. unteer position at San The program is sponsored Francisco General Hospital. through a $5,000 donation Dilley designed the project to from the administration and accomplish two objectives: to the Student Union Board educate the public and to 
"We really want to get as express hope. many people to come as pos­According to Dilley, the sible. This program is so exhibition is especially important; it is something to important for young people put on your list to do and to witness because they are actually do it," said Tricia the group most affected by Sevilla, the SUB member AIDS. who is responsible for coordi­Dilley's background in the­nating the exhibition's visit to ater arts and mask making Notre Dame. 
see FACE I page 4 
Friday Feature 
...And I haven't had a drink in 40 days 
By BRIDGET O'CONNOR 
Assistant News Editor 

an aim of the program. The Observer/Shannon Dunne 
"To be honest, I don't real­Student Gavin Campbell (right) earned over ly care about student drink­$200, part of wrich was sponsored by Doug ing. There are some people Zwilling, after completing the Sober-a-thon . 
who are addicted though, and I care about getting treatment the Life Treatment Center, pointed for them," explained Sullivan. out that while the aim was not the 
Father Steve Newton, rector of benefits brought to the students but Sorin Hall and executive director of see SOBER I page 4 

page 2 
• INSIOE COLUMN 
Not Just 
Oranges and 
Tolllatoes 
When I informed peo­ple that I went on the Megan Ferstenfeld CSC Migrant Accent Copy Ediror 
Experiences Seminar in 
Immokalee, Fla., over spring break, one of the more popular responses I received was: 
"Oh that's great-did you pick a lot of oranges?" 
Well, yes, I did pick a lot of oranges. And a lot of people picked tomatoes, too. But there was so much more to it than that. 
Not that I blame anyone. In fact, I am certain that I would have asked the same question if I had been in their shoes. 
Yet, their inability to grasp the true nature of my experience highlights an important deficit in our education. While we can read about something forever in a book, and attend lectures until we drop, we can never fully understand another reality unless we have the opportunity to witness it first-hand. 
Since the day we enter school, we are taught everything can be reduced to theo­ries or equations, that every subject has its corresponding call number on the shelf of a library. 
However, this is a dangerous attitude. When we become so caught up in analysis, we lose our grip on reality. 
Before I left for Immokalee, I read all about the problems of migrant life -the asalarization, the exploitation, the primi­tive working conditions -and thought I knew just about everything there was. Still, in spite of my technical expertise, I wasn't the least bit prepared for what I encoun­tered. 
Never in my wildest dreams could I have expected the outpouring of hospitality and generosity we were shown by the people of Immokalee. Nor could I have imagined their amazing faith and spirit. Based upon what I read, I would have thought to find a bleak, dismal wasteland; but instead I found joy, compassion and life. 
Although we were only there for seven days, the relationships I formed with the migrants were some of the most intense I have ever made. While I can't say that I solved any major problems, I did learn how to make homemade tortillas, refried beans and enchiladas. Above all, I learned that the migrants are people, with real faces, just like you and me. As far as I'm con­cerned, this knowledge I gained is more profound than that contained in even the thickest volumes in the Hesburgh Tower. 
The Migrant Experiences Seminar is just one of a number of experiential learning opportunities offered through the Center for Social Concerns. In my opinion, they are an essential complement to the class­room. In fact, if it were up to me, I would require that all students participate in at least one such program before graduating. 
Sure, we will all leave Notre Dame with a "great" education. We will be able to write 25-page research papers, do Power Point presentations, or balance redox equations. But what will we have really learned? When I look back on my four years here, I hope that I can remember more than just the number of oranges I picked in a day. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
• TooAv's STAFF  
News  
Michelle Krupa  Graphics  
Heather MacKenzie  Jon King  
Sports  Production  
Joe Cavato  Michelle Krupa  
Viewpoint  Mark DeBoy  
Ayana Fakhir  Heather Cocks  
Accent  Lab Tech  
Joey Crawford  Joe Stark  
Nate Wills  

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights arc reserved. 
------~---~--~-------------------=-­
The Observer • INSIDE Friday, April 4, 1997 
• WORLD AT A GLANCE 
Russia and Belarus take first step toward peace 

MOSCOW 

Russia and Belarus signed a treaty Wednesday meant to bring their peo­ple, economies and armies closer together, in a first step toward reinte­gration by two former Soviet republics. 
President Boris Yeltsin, who signed the accord with his Belarusian counter­part Alexander Lukashenko, stressed the two Slavic nations will remain sov­ereign and separate. 
"We'll not transform our community into a unified state for now, but a union of two states," Yeltsin said at the sign­ing ceremony in a gilded Kremlin hall. 
No other ex-Soviet republics have shown a real desire for r~unification since the Soviet Union collapsed in 1991, creatmg 15 separate states. 
Although Russian hard-liners hailed the treaty as a step toward the revival of a mighty state, Belarusian opponents expressed fear their country of 10 million people would 
NYC bar bans table dancing 
Hey, Julia Roberts -get down off that bar! And Drew Barrymore ­don't shake your booty like that! City officials have put a halt to hoofing at Hogs & Heifers, a downtown hooky­tonk known for its collection of celebrity bras donated by visitors like Roberts, Barrymore and Darryl Hannah. Those stars and other 

patr?ns have been known to mount the Hogs & Heifers bar m spontaneous bursts of late-night dancing. But it turns out a Prohibition-era ordinance requires a cabaret license for such footloose activity. Last Thursday night, Hogs & Heifer owner Allen Dell said, a dozen police offi­cers walked in, told him that undercover cops had wit­nessed dancing in the bar the previous weekend, and shut him down."It's a sad world when they padlock a guy for dancing," Dell said. He went to court the next day and got the bar reopened. And despite signs inside and out reading "No Dancing by Order of New York City Department of Consumer Affairs, Cabaret Division," at l~ast a dozen patro~s on a recent weeknight were bop­pmg to country music blaring from the jukebox. 
Murderer escapes and kills again 
COLUMBUS 
A paroled murderer diagnosed with hysterical 
paralysis leaped from his wheelchair, overpowered a 
guard and escaped in the truck of a man he later shot 
to death, police said. Alva Campbell, 48, was arrested 
Wednesday about six hours after he grabbed a 
revolver from a sherifrs deputy and escaped from the 
Franklin County Courthouse through an underground 
passageway, police said. Campbell, paroled in 1992 
after serving 20 years for killing a man in a bar, was 
held without bond today on charges of aggravated 
murder, felonious assault and escape. Once outside the 
courthouse, Campbell commandeered a truck belong­
ing to Charles Dials, 18, who may have been at the 
co~rtho~se to yay a fine for a headlight violation, 
police said. While searching police received a report of 
a shooting in a Kmart parking lot about five miles 
away. They arrived to find Dials inside, shot dead and 
wearing Campbell's prison uniform. Campbell later 
forced his way into a car driven by a woman. 
• SOUTH BEND WEATHER • NATIONAL WEATHER 5 Day South Bend Forcast 

The AccuWeather®forecast for noon, Friday, April 4. 
Lines separate high temperature zones for the day. 
FRONTS: 

"T""T'" ............... ............... 
COLD WARM STATIONARY 
Q ~ 997 AccuWeather, Inc. 
Pressure 

H L m ISS! [Til 0 [Z] ~ i) ~ u 
HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T·STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT CLOUDY CLOUDY 
V1a Assoc~ated Press 
Anchorage 42 19 Dallas 78 66 Norfolk 68 51 Arcola 70 53 Fargo 47 26 Phoenix 66 49 Atlanta 77 53 Helena 40 18 Richmond 74 47 Boston 47 35 Louisville 74 53 Topeka 64 50 Charleston 81 58 t)lashville 75 58 Tulsa 70 57 
lose its independence to much larger Russia. 
Critics also argued that integrating the two struggling countries will only create more problems for both. 
About 5,000 opponents of the accord ~ried to march to the Russian Embassy m the Belarusian capital, Minsk. Riot police confronted them, clubbing and hitting the marchers when the protest­ers threw stones at them. 
The clash was the worst violence in Belarus in months. Russian news broad­casts showed policemen beating women 
. . ~i~h truncheons and an officer swinging h1s boot to hit an mJurod protester who was lying on the pavement. 
Opposition and human rights activists said about 200 people were beaten and detained. The government con­firmed 70 people were detained and three policemen were injured, but declined to provide more information. 
Researchers find American cannibals 
NASIIVILLE, Tenn. 

One spring around the year 1150, the people of what's now known as Cowboy Wash mQt a horrible end. In a j~mbled collection of bones, tools and pottery, archaeolo­gists have uncovered grim evidence that attackers slaughtered, butchered and perhaps even cannibalized the long-ago inhabitants of the American Southwest. The discove~y a?ds to the growing debate over the possibility of canmbahsm among the Anasazi Indians, whose spec­tacular, apartment-like cliff dwellings are now a major tourist attraction. "We feel very strongly that this is a case of cannibalism. If it's not, we don't know what else it could be that would produce this set of remains " said Brian Billman, part of a team of archaeologists who excavated the site from 1992 to 1996 in the Ute Mountains of southwestern Colorado. Inside two of the three small dwellings they unearthed were the bones of at least seven people scattered amid the everyday pottery and tools of 12th century Southwestern life. Cut marks on the bones suggest that the bodies were butchered about the time of death, and darkened areas on some of them suggest cooking as well. "Certainly people were mutilated," said Patricia Lambert, a researcher on the case. 
Six inmates die in highway crash 
DICKSON, Tenn. 

A van transporting prisoners burst into flame on a highway today, killing all six of them as the driver tried vainly to save the chained and shackled men authorities said. The driver was burned. Earlier report; that a sev­enth inmate survived the fire were incorrect, said Safety Depart.m~nt spokesman Anthony Kimbrough. "There we~e .six mmat:s and they all died," he said. A guard ass1stmg the dnver was unhurt. Kimbrough said the fire apparently was started by a broken drive shaft that pierced the vehicle's fuel tank. Emergency officials said the problem may have been a broken axle rather than the drive shaft. No other vehicles were involved, Ms. Armour said. The charred gray van came to rest on the median of Interstate 40, about 45 miles west of Nashville. Its windows were blown out and glass was scattered on the highway. "The prisoners were consumed in the fire " sa~d Lt. Mik: Dover of the Tennessee Highway Patrol. He said the pnsoners were chained and shackled to each other but not to the vehicle. The fire burned so hot that the plastic in the van melted away. 


Friday, April 4, 1997 The Observer· AD HOC RECOMMENDATIONS RETROSPECTIVE page 3 
the Ad Hoc

on effects of Open Letter response 
Committee 

One year later. .. 
Campus disagrees 
By DEREK BETCHER 
Associate News Editor 
On the -one-year anniversary of vice president for Student Affairs Patricia O'Hara's Open Letter addressing gay and lesbian student issues, the campus is ambivalent regarding the letter's impact. 
Last spring the Ad Hoc Committee on Gay and Lesbian Student Needs ended 11 months of research by submitting 12 detailed recommendations ·to the Office of Student Affairs. Ranging from hall staff training to the creation of a Standing Committee, each recommen­dation was effectiyely accepted by O'Hara in her April 2, 1996 Open Letter in Response to ~he Final Report of the Ad lloc Committee. 
Although a full 12 months have since elapsed. the Notre Dame community is mixed in judging the changes the letter has brought. The Office of Student Affairs reports that all 12 recommendations have been met, but nonetheless many campus gays and les­bians report noticing limited results. Some students are strongly critical of the entire process. 
Sean Gallavan, co-chair of Gays and Lesbians at Notre Dame/Saint Mary's College (GLND/SMC) is among the naysayers. 
"/ would say it's going nowhere,,, Gallavan said. "The Ad Hoc Committee began with good, open, hon­est dialogue, but since then action has been deplorably inadequate. , 
Specifically, Gallavan targeted the responses to Recommendation 5 and Recommendation 12. The former led to the ereation of the University group Notre Dame Gay and Lesbian Students (NDGLS) and the latter called for Student Affairs to consider amending the University's non-discrimination dausc to indudc sexual orientation. 
Onlookers generally agree that those two issues have proven themselves as the Open Letter's most controversial responses. 
To this day, an independent gay and lesbian student group has not been rec­ognized and the non-discrimination clause has not been amended ­although the Open Letter promised nei­ther course of action. 
"[Professor O'Hara] met what she had claimed, and she raised all of the issues. But is this adequate? No," Gallavan asserted. 
"It's not just about GLND/SMC being recognized. It's about all people being equals," he said. Gallavan later listed rector and RA sensitivity-training as an example of a unquestionably positive result of the Open Letter. 
"The most important thing is that this issue has started discussion on campus -an open discussion of treating people 

equally," he said. 
Ann Firth, chair of the Ad Hoc Committee and chair of the Standing Committee has kept equally abreast of gay and lesbian issues in the 12 month interim 

since O'Hara's Firth response. Her obser­vations arc comparatively more opti­mistic. 
''I've seen some progress in the last year." Firth stated. "I think Professor O'Hara was dear in the response she gave, and I think there has been dear follow-through." 
One important indirect benefit of the response which Firth also pinpointed was the open discussion of gay and les­bian issues which has ensued. Regardless of whether one agrees with the recommend&tions, she explained, the campus has been made aware enough to thoughtfully consider the issues. 
Firth also reiterated the University's official stance on gay and lesbian stu­dents (much of which is reprinted near the right margin). 
"Clearly there's more that can be done. There's always room for growth, but I've seen significant advance­ment, , Firth said. 
John Blandford, co-chair of GLND/SMC from Jan. 1994 through May 1995, has labeled the last 12 months a huge disappointment. 
"There's a real misconception that pervades this campus that something progressive has been done. But no ­it's really not any better," he said. 
Warning against "a false impression of progress," Blandford pointed to NDLGS as an example of a inadequacy in the Open Letter. As a University group, rather than a student group, NDLGS cannot elect representatives or sponsor events and is distinctly depen­
dent on the Office of Student Affairs. 
"The group [Professor O'Hara) created is not what the Ad Hoc Committee called for. It's just another incarnation of the Campus 

Ministry group," Blandford Blandford asserted. "While NDGLS does serve a function, it cannot help the whole group. 
"As a whole, it's been a huge disappointment . . . The Ad Hoc Committee was used by Professor O'Hara to stall for a year. There has been no implementation in good· faith,, Blandford said. 
Although recognizing room for con­tinued improvement, O'Hara has detected no ill faith towards the cam­pus gay and lesbian community through the Office of Student Affairs. 
"I feel that we have followed through on each of the recommendations," she. said. 
the Office of 
• MAJOR GAY Ai\10 lESBIAN DEVELOPMENTS IN REVIEW: 4/96 TO 4/97 
At student activities night, Sean Gallavan, 
GLND/SMC co-chair,  . rom  
handing out flyers su  f the  
University's non-discn  
include sexual orientat  
disciplined ford·  
publications."  ·  

Bill Kirk, vice pre 

the request of the +ri.I4'P::h4...•,._. · "'?·''+:i+ntn,,,;~:l.tt,~--~•paneldiscossion, "Homosexuality 
demonstration as part 

, "It is clear to this office .. sponsor of this function," picnic, replacing the can· proceeded without incident , Student Senate, and the Faculty Senate would each issue resolutions critical of the administration's reaction. 
t•1 would like to think that the climate has gotten a lit­tle better. And at the same time, we can continue to build on the fairness of the Ad Hoc· Committee's recom­mendations,, O'Hara said. 
O'Hara emphasized 
himself apolitical in
that the greatest 
the GLND/SMC and
strength of the Open 
NDGLS debate, Geary
Letter does not lie in 
advocates a practical
any single recommen­
approach to that situation.
dation or response, 
"Some people want GLND/SMC, but
but rather resides in 
the University doesn't. Unfortunately
its total integrated 
the University has power over that," he 
response. 
said.

"No one step is suffi­

Geary 

cient," she explained. 
O'Hara also noted 
improved dialogue and awareness of 
gay and lesbian issues during the past 
12 months. ' 
"This year has been characterized by 
a greater openness," she said. "This 
year may not have been marked by as 
much rancor." 
In small contrast to that dissipation, 
the lack of open progress on revising 
the non-discrimination clause has 
become a controversial issue in recent 
weeks. 

"Making that revision would be 
incredible," Gallavan said. "It would be ·the most signifi­cant step the University has 
• 0FFIC!AI.. UNiVERSITY POSITION, ISSUED 10/11/96 ever taken towards meeting gay and lesbian 
The University ackno~l.~d.Q~~ a~d affirms the 
student needs." 
presence of.~g~.,gayanq lesoianstudents in our 
"It is still under 
midst. We.val ur gay acyd lesbian students, as
consideration," 
O'Hara noted, 
we value.. ··· swtto:are members of this 
adding that is 
tthe t:Jhiv~rsity to be asafe 
against University . policy to discuss 
~ich every_student 

issues under con­
mt,:eod~~vocto which,we

sideration by the 
hara.ssmerif of any kind.

officers. In several cases students have 
0 the he.I~stYea,the yniversityhas
misunderstood 
put'into ui~s'"'q~13igned to specifically
the Office of Student Affairs' 
address t .~ML.Q~yand l~s~ian students. 
role in shaping 
The,t~jpei) .. ) 'fStuqentAffairs~Professor
the discrimination 
clause issue. As 
PatriCia!~Q'Hq /' . . l~d!pe §tanding Committee 
alluded to in the 
on Gay a~~...Lesb ·······.·.· ,tuderif Needs to advise her. 
wording of both 
In additiort~:~g~~ Uriiver$tty has formed two groups
Recommendation 
12 and O'Hara's 
which offer suppcrrt.tp.. ,:9Hf gay aQd lesbian students 
response to that 
within the context ohtlis· community.
recommendation, 
The Standing Committee sponsored a Gumbleton, auxiliary Among other points, rted an independent gays and lesbians, . non-discrimination ing out to serve 
In Monday's Observer... 
Further 
coverage on 
the impact of 

• Hqmophobia," four theology faculty 
··  bers stressed that neither church  
, ecclesiology, nor the Bible  
...  homophobia. Also, doctrine  
d  es  t preclude allowing an  

independent gay student group, they concluded. 
Student Affairs is only empowered to raise the question of revising the clause to the University's officers. 
"I have done that,".--------, O'Hara stated. Sean Geary, a stu­dent member of the Standing Committee, offers an accepting perspective. Labeling 
"There are so many dijJer­ent levels to this broader discussion. I say, Take the compromise and work with it, ,, Geary said. 
Also, Geary pinpointed an indirect negative consequence of the Open Letter. 
"The gay community has become more divisive [in the past year]. There are just opposing forces," he said. 
In any case, much of the University awaits the next development in the realm of gay and lesbian student issues. 

page 4 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS Friday, April 4, 1997 
neighbors in Stanford Hall and "We realize that this is the "not just on issues of dying, but from a group of women in first year and that it might take of the reality of living and work­
Sober Face 
continued from page 1 
that participation in the pro­gram would "give the students the. opportunity to examine their own drinking patterns." 
More importantly for Newton, participants do something for someone else and will gain con­cern and awareness in the area of chemical dependency. 
Tying the idea of abstaining from alcohol into the Lenten season, participants were given a "self-structured and flexible format," through which they were to collect pledges from supporters in exchange for a commitment that they would not drink. 
"The response was really great," said Sullivan. He added that he received the most sup­port from Breen-Phillips, Farley, LeMans and Regina halls. 
One individual who rose to the challenge was Gavin Campbell. At this point, Campbell is the contest leader with a promise of over $200 in pledges to collect. 
"None of [my friends] thought I could do it," said Campbell. He explained that he collected most of his pledges from his Pasquerilla East. 
"I did it because I saw an advertisement in the dining hall," he continued. "My friend thought it was a good idea." 
While Campbell will turn in those pledges, he will reap the benefits of his commitment when he collects the tickets to the Roast the Coach dinner which are valued at several hundred dollars. The event is also put on by the Life Treatment Center. 
FOX-TV is also sponsoring the Sober-a-thon and .has kicked in some of the other prizes. Those prizes include dinner for two at Tippecanoe restaurant and two tickets to Movies 10. 
Campbell noted, however, that his motivation was the challenge of abstaining rather than the prizes. 
As to the success of the pro­gram, Sullivan reported that there were between 100 and 200 participants in the pro­gram this year. 
TEACH EllmLISH in ' · 
EASTERN EUROPE 

PRAGUE • BUDAPEST • KRAKOW How would yol4 like to tearh bask -:onversational Enalish in Eastern Europe_? Our ~atenals profile manv rewardmg teach1~~ opportunities with great benefits. For mfonnation, call: 
(206} 971-3680 ExL 1<55845 
W~r '"' 1 rmeuch a. publiAhifl& ~­

pJ"oject face to face 

~eeiJtq the lace~ ol 4i~~ 4Jt~ 4i 
f~ee admissioV\ 
11-4 7-9 l"il1110am-12 
EVER GET THE FEELING 
YOU'RE BEING WATCHED? 
Expect all eyes on you in our hot one-of­
a-kind prom dresses. Featuring: 
Black Tie by Oleg Cassini and NITELINE 


HE-RO Group Evening Wear Outlet 

LOOK LIKE A MILLION PAY NEXT TO NOTHING 
lighthouse Place 
Lighthouse Pl. 219-879-4237 

longer to get it on board in the consciousness of the Notre Dame community," explained Newton. 
As such, he noted that plan­ning for next year's Sober-a­thon would begin immediately after· the Roast the Coach event. He added that next year's pro­gram would incorporate some additional activities to raise awareness. 
Please recycle The Observer. 
continued from page 1 
provided the tools for the exhibi­tion. He completed his first mask in 1988; the recorded interview was finished shortly afterward. A group of professional artists and others interested in the per­sonal testimonies of AIDS patients were then invited to work on the project. 
Dilley will be in LaFortune on Monday and Tuesday demon­strating the process of creating the masks. On Tuesday at 2 p.m., he will depict the faee of a local community member with AIDS to a mask in public view. A recorded interview with the per­son will also be completed. 
The project's ultimate goal is to have persons with AIDS speak ing day to day with a commonly ostracizing illness," advocates asserted. 
According to Sevilla, the exhi­bition is powerful because it resounds the fact that AIDS "is all'ecting the person right next to you." 
Project Faee to Face has been viewed at 18 conferences in the United States and Italy, in numerous museums and civic institutions across the country, and at dozens of colleges and universities nationwide. 
All students and community members are invitl)d to observe the display in LaFortune Ballroom. free of ehargP. Monday through Thursday, 11 
a.m. to 4 p.m. and 7 p.m. to 9 p.m., and also next Friday from 10 a.m. to 12 p.m. 


~r~----------------------------------------------------~------------------------------------------------------------~------------------~ 
A weekly section from The Observer News Department 
Today ... 
---~ 
.~ 
A look at the Huddle 
Whether you go there for pizza or cappuccino, for the Acoustic Cafe, or simply to study, the Huddle plays a large role in LaFortune's function as Notre Dame's student center. 
Friday, April 4, 1997 
Mcfortune's? 
Can ·commercial restaurants ever come to LaFortune? 
Big ideas in store for the future of the Huddle 
By JUSTYN HARKIN Deparcmenrs Page Editor 
Matt Szabo, during his 1997 campaign for student body president, ran on a platform that offered, among other things, the commercialization of the Huddle's restaurant space in the LaFortune Student Center. 
Szabo imagined a new Huddle, complete with brand-name gourmet coffee and honest-to-goodness sand­wiches from a real-live deli. 
Szabo was also. quick to comment that Notre Dame's Food Service-run Huddle was a dinosaur compared to other universities' student centers, which featured com­mercial restaurants like McDonald's, Burger King or Taco Bell. The notion of commercial restaurants occupying LaFortune was indeed provocative, but election results effectively dropped the issue, perhaps until a future candi­date picks it up. 
There are two ways for the University to bring in a restaurant like McDonald's: either through a licensing agreement or the purchase of a franchise. 
A licensing agreement would permit Notre Dame to use the name of a large franchise, but it would be limited in what it could offer in terms of m~mu selection. If a licens­ing agreement was arranged with Taco Bell, for example, only the basic taco would be available, with the possible addition of another item. 
Purchasing a franchise, on the other hand, would permit the University not only to use the name of Taco Bell, but to sell all Taco Bell products. The LaFortune location of the franchise would thus be entitled to all of the privileges boasted by the licensee 

across the street. 

Dave Prentkowski, direc­tor of Food Services at the University, noted that although such ideas for commercial restaurants in LaFortune have been con­sidered, market research has revealed that such a restaurant would not be 
successful. 

Dave Prentkowski "There's a hundred 
things to consider [before 
--------------------bringing in a franchise]. It's not as simple as 'can we bring one in tomorrow?"' Prentkowski said. 
One such thing to consider would be the future move of administrative employees from the Main Building to Grace and Flanner. The distance from the towers to LaFortune will greatly decrease the amount of employee patrons, especially in the winter. 

Prentkowski also explained that because of the size of the University, the cus­tomer base is rather limited. The restricted menu of a franchise restaurant also detracts from its initial attractiveness. 
He further noted that market research has shown that once the novelty of the restaurant wears away, students are likely to become bored with the product. Eventually, prices would have to be raised to cover the expenses and the use of the franchise's name. 
Add the fact that most students are "tied" to their meal plans, and the idea for a commercial restaurant seems even less appealing. "Besides," adds Prentkowski, "There has not been much of a demand for such a service." Prentkowski noted that the facilities at the Huddle have a flexibility to change their menus according to the students' tastes. 
Also, because the Huddle is considered an auxiliary service, the prices of its products are dictated only by the cost of maintaining the Huddle's operations costs. 
"We do not run it [the Huddle] as a profit-generating business," said Prentkowski. "We just want to break even." 
By JUSTYN HARKIN 
Departments Page Editor 
Although there is little likelihood of commer.cializing LaFortune, that does not completely rule out the possibility of any change in the future. Jim Labella, oper­ations manager for the Huddle, notes that there are several new ideas on the table for change in the Huddle's current layout. 
The Huddle, which includes the Little Store, Tomassito's Pizza, Allegro, The Huddle Grill, and the now-defunct Orient Express, occupies almost half of the first floor of LaFortune. 
The Huddle will deliver any of its products, including those in the Little Store, free of charge to any campus location if the order is over $5. 
"We get orders from everything from pizza to batteries," said Labella. "It is pretty common to get an order from a student requesting [things like] a bowl of chicken soup and a packet of cold medicine." 
In addition to the services offered by the restaurants and convenience store, the Huddle is available to do catering for LaFortune activities, SYRs, and events on the Fieldhouse Mall. 
Any organized student activity that plans to use the Huddle ultimately must seek its permission. Labella is quick to add, however, that the Huddle most cer­tainly welcomes such activities. 
In fact. Labella has been considering the use of an Acoustic Cafe format to increase sales in Allegro. 
"Entertainment needs to be tied into the coffee shop somehow in order to bring people down there," Labella said. Although there ·are concerns about the avail­ability of space, Labella has considered making Allegro more friendly to poetry readings, music sessions, and the like. 
Perhaps one of the largest complaints about the coffee shop can be heard amongst the ranks of students performing all-nighters in LaFortune's 24-hour lounge when their desired double espressos are not available because of Allegro's 
early closing hour, 9:30p.m. Labella explained that the decision to make Allegro's closing time earlier was due to an extremely light evening usage. 
"[Keeping Allegro open late] was not a good use of our resources," Labella said, "It was really slow." As compensation for the coffee shop's early closing hour, however, Labella decided to offer Allegro's gourmet coffees in the Little Store, 
which features a much later closing time of 3 a.m. An instant cappuccino ·machine was also installed. 
Another idea for change in LaFortune involves the Little Store, which is by far the Huddle•s largest attrac­tion. Labella wants to take the space currently occu­pied by the Orient Express 

and convert it into a larger Jim Labella version of the Little Store. 
He explains that the space now used by the Little Store would be used for additional seating and benches and that the overall services of the Little Store would be greatly increased. 
Labella imagines expanding the size of the Little Store to that of a small super­market, expanding its services to include greater selection of current items as well as the addition of new items, such as a health and beauty aisle, or a selec­tion of hot food similar to that of a grocery store's deli. 
Labella stressed that these ideas concerning Allegro, the Little Store, and the fate of Orient Express are merely ~sals, and they may or may not be real­ized. ........ 
------~-------------------------------------------------­
page 6 The Observer • NEWS 
Tuition 
continued from page 1 
aid to needy students,'" Lamon said. He also added that the direct student loan system is more efficient than an indirect method. 
Roemer stressed that the pri­mary objective of the panel dis­cussion yesterday was to gather input from the various aspects of college education and financial aid. 
"WE don't want to regulate you," he said. "The diversity of this panel reflects the strength of the Higher Education Act." 
While the first panel was dom­inated by administrators, the second panel was composed of individuals involved in the receiving and distributing stages of the aid process. 
Two students, a parent, two community college administra­tors, and a banker rounded out the congressmen's audience by offering their conclusions on accessibility and efficiency of the current financial aid system. 
"I really think that it is valu­able to listen to individual peo­ple,'' Roemer said. "We need to ask ourselves 'Are we encourag­ing people to go to school? What more can we do?'" 
Crescent Mohammad. a South Bend resident currently enrolled in her .senior year at Harvard University, offered some of the afternoon's most compelling remarks. 
"As an African American stu­dent from the inner city, I do not feel that I would have had access to this education without current programs and funding," she said, offering testimony for con­tinuing federal aid support. 
She also agreed that there is room for expansio.n and improvement. 
''I'll be repaying $200-$250 a month for the next 10 years," she shared. "I'd like to work in the public sector... I'm not inter­ested in corporate America, but corporate America pays well and I need to pay back these loans." 
Roemer later agreed that an aid system that dictates careers is less-than-desirable. 
Mohammad was especially supportive of educational youth programs and federal work­study programs, and Roemer and Upton later questioned her about programs like TRIO, NY~P. and Upward Bound. 
Although he spoke from the perspective of a man with five college-aged children and step­children, Greg Murphy focused on broader demographic trou­bles. 
Specifically, he was concerned that in the coming years a small portion of the public will need to be prepared to support a larger, aging generation of baby­boomers. 
"It is easy to toss out platitudes about how the youth are our future, but for the first time that is really going to matter,'' he said, explaining that increased labor productivity via increased education will soon become a national necessity. 
Labeling the financial aid sys­tem both helpful and confusing, Jason Terakedis -a Western Michigan University senior ­raised several questions about the complexity of obtaining aid. He recommended lowering redundant accountability stan­dards, focusing on aid to low income families, and minimizing bureaucracy inherent in federal­state interaction. 
"I never agree with the phrase 'If it ain't broke don't fix it."' he said. "It is always good to look at and fine-tune existing policies and procedures." 
Other panelists agreed that the system, while functional, holds much room for improvement. 
"The process could do well to be simplified,'' said Hichard Wedemeyer, Glen Oaks College dean of students. "Our current system works, but it does not prombte efficiency." 
Upton was receptive to many of panel's sentiments, admitting that some current regulations are excessive. 
"You can request an absentee ballot by fax, but you can't apply for a student loan by fax," he remarked. 
Joe Calvaruso, senior vice presiden~f Shoreline Bank, proposed a deregulation initia­tive to help lenders help stu­dents. 
"We need to modernize our federal programs to achieve con­tinued reliable and easy avail­able funds well into the 21st cen­tury," he said. · 
Questions, comments, ideas??? 
E-mail The Observer at observer.obs news.l@ nd.edu 
Friday, April 4, 1997 
DEI~tEft:,,.. 
•. ..,,~,_.., ..,.,,,.... "IL 
eJ\tecutithlii\\;it.fi"'nO con,··· science, while a third said she couldn;t live. with herselfif she did. 10 
The candidates for the panel that Will sit in judgment of Timothy McVeigh were ques­tioned as'· jury sell:lction entered a third day. Their answers took the tone of a theological discussion. 
A computer analyst who teaches a Bible class for teen­agers said he considered the Christian belief of turning the other cheek but still concluded "you could support the argu· ment for the death penalty." 
''I'm not a strong advocate of the death penalty," he said. "I think it should be used in very rare cases." 
Another prospect, also a computer analyst, said she recalled Jesus' teachings that only those without sin should cast the first stone. "I don't feel capital of throwing that first stone,'' she said. 
"I could consider all of the evidence but I couldn't live with myself if I had to decide if somebody was to be put to death,'' said the woman iden­tifiedasJurorNo.lOl. 
The next woman que,­tioned, a farmer's wife identi­fi~d (l;s Juror No. 779, used her own view of the Golden .. .. ack the geath penal­
.. ·.... " ':·:::·:~&~· .::. 
I was always taught: Do 
u.rn others what you would want others to do unto you," she said. -~.tlf he's guilty, he should get the death penalty.'' ... Because the federal charges of murder and conspiracy against McVeigh carry a penalty of death by injection, a willingness to impose the death penalty is a require­ment. Of the 19 questioned so far, only two have opposed it. 
With the process plodding along and some prospects being questioned for an hour or more, it is expected to take weeks to whittle the pool of 350 prospects to 1.2 jurors and six alternates. 
In another development, 
U.S. District Judge Hichard Matsch scheduled a hearing Thursday on a petition filed by a group of news media repre­sentatives who want public access to the jury selection process. · 
To help protect the privacy of prospective jurors, Matsch is conducting challenges for cause in chambers. He ordered construction of a par-. tition that blocks the candi­dates from the view of the news media in his courtroom. He also has sealed daily tran­scripts during the selection process. 
McVeigh, 28, is charged in the April 19, 1995, truck bombing that ripped open the Oklahoma City federal build­ing, killing 168 people and injuring hundreds. 


Friday, April 4, 1997 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS 
SMC bans halogen lamps for '97-'98 
By HEATHER CROSS 
News Writer 
When moving into the dorms next fall, Saint Mary's students will not need to lug halogen lamps along with their belongings. 
As of August, the appli­ances will no longer be allowed in the residence halls, Saint Mary's office of Residence Life and Housing announced last week. 
The decision to ban the lamps was based on a recom­mendation from the Fire and Safety Committee, according to Suzie Orr, director of Residence Life and Housing at Saint Mary's. 
The decision was publicized this week in a letter to stu­dents from Orr which listed several dangers of the lamps. 
"There has been at least one fire caused by a halogen lamp at Saint Mary's, and one at Notre Dame, in the past two years," Orr noted. 
The letter also stated that the decision was made "after much discussion about the fire hazards created by the use of halogen lighting and the personal safety and lia­bility issues associated by allowing the continued use of these lights." 
Students were warned that the lights that will be prohib­ited as of next term include not only the floor standing models, called torchiere, but also desk lamps and all other lamps that usc halogen bulbs, which can produce tempera­tures of over 1,000 degrees. 
Also included in the letter were safety tips for students who currently use halogen 
lamps in the dorms. The information was provided by the Underwriters Laborator­ies Inc., a company that inspects and approves many appliances, including the lamps. 
Students have mixed reac­tions to the new policy. Katie Pain, a resident advisor in LeMans Hall, agrees with the decision. 
"It's better to be safe than sorry," Pain said. 

Addie Gayoso 

Other students feel that the policy is unfair. Junior Sarah Bandera enjoys the conve­nience of her halogen lamp. 
"We've had no problem with ours," Bandera said. "I think that if the companies can make them up to safety standards, we should be allowed to have them." 
"College is where we're 
supposed to  learn to  take  
care  of  ourselves,"  said  
sophomore Jen Lemler.  

She said that the decision conveys the message that Saint Mary's does not trust the students enough to let them take responsibility for 
their lamps. 

The decision regarding lamps follows a similar rule that was instituted during the 1995-1996 academic year in which candles, lit or unlit, were prohibited in the resi­dence halls. 
This rule was adopted after several fires occurred last year due to irresponsible use of candles. 
The concern about fire safety associated with smok­ing in the residence halls also has increased in the past after the third floor fire of Holy Cross Hall earlier this semester. That fire was caused by smoldering ashes in a garbage can. 
A student who lives in the section where the fire occurred commented, "Halogen lamps and smoking both have the potential to cause a fire." 
She added, "If you handle them responsibly, I don't really see the difference." 
Addie Gayoso, a sopho­more, feels strongly that smoking should be prohibited 
before halogen lamps  are  
banned.  
"I  can  understand  the  

school's desire to protect our safety," said Gayoso, "but if they're truly concerned about preventing fires, smoking shouldn't be allowed in dorms." 
The decision to ban halogen lamps from the residential areas has been made by sev­eral other colleges and uni­versities. Purdue University, Bowling Green State University, and American University have all adopted similar policies. 
senior Dame. growth in attendance, moved from auditorium to Stepan Center, where a crowd la,n,~¢ll:roups;:·;··· of morethan 1 ;200 people gath· 
ered for the event. · Tickets for Latin Expressions 
. are being.sQld at the LaFortune Student Information Desk, by all La Alianza and will IC avaUabl•O: tonigllt at the door. ·· ·Latina"are La Alianza, , ~"''"·"'·· tudents, mem­will 6:3Qp.m. rn"rln<>•·•nn contact 
11.mnorrat 631~6070; 

Ifyou see news happening, call The Observer at 1-5323. 
ATTENTION NOTRE DAME STUDENTS: 
We are asking for your enthusiasm to help welcome potential members of the next Freshman Class to Notre Dame. Last week we sent decision letters to thousands of students who applied to Notre Dame. Now, many of those admitted would like to visit the University, meet some students, spend a night in a dorm, and in 
Igeneral, get a sense of the community that is Notre Dame. We initially approache~our Hospitality Program men1bers to fulfill this role. However, we can never be certain what the demand fdtovernight visits will be. To insure that we do not disappoint any potential visitors, we want to open the invitation to host to any 
I enthusiastic undergraduates of Notre Dame .. We will host on all ofthe following nights: 
Sunday, April 6 Monday, April 7 Tuesday, April 8 Wednesday, April 9 Thursday, April10 Friday, April 11 Saturday, April 12 Sunday, April 13 Monday, April 14 Tuesday, April 15 
D D D D 
D 
D 
D 
D D D 

Wednesday, April 16 Thursday, April 17 Friday, April 18 Saturday;:nApril 19 Sunday,ApriL20 Monday, April 21.:.,. Tuesday, April 22 Wednesday, April 23 Thursday, April 24 Friday, April25 
D 
D 
D 
)i D 
D 
D 
D D D D 
If you can host a student on any night, please let us know. We deed all the studenthosts we can get. To volunteer, simply check the day(s) that you woulci.be available t@.G.est, c~!P thi~ adverti§.ement from the paper, and drop it off in the Admissions Office: Room 113 Main1Building. · 
If you have questions or concerns, please contact our office. On behalf o£Lthe newest members of Notre Dame, we thank you very much for your enthusiasm and generosity. 
·::~t 

Sincerely, 
Office of Admissions 113 Main Building 631-7505 

page 8 The Observer • NATIONAL NEWS Friday, April 4, 1997 
Scientists find cancer 'switch' FCC will mandate 
By TIM WHITMIRE 
Associated Press Writer 
NEW YORK 
Scientists have isolated a substance they believe trig­gers breast cancer and whose discovery could lead to valu­able advances in early detec­tion and treatment of the dis­ease. 
Researchers at the State University of New York-Stony Brook said they found that the molecule mitogen-activated protein kinase, or MAP kinase, exists at levels five to 20 times higher in women with breast cancer than in normal breast tissue. 
The discovery is reported in the April issue of The Journal of Clinical Investigation. An accompanying editorial calls it "an extremely exciting finding that has the potential of iden­tifying an important therapeu­tic target." 
Breast cancer strikes about 180,000 American women each year, and is expected to kill 44,000 this year. 
Dr. Craig Malbon, vice dean of Stony Brook's University Medical Center and head of the research team, said Tuesday that migration of MAP kinase into the nucleus of a cell signals the cell to begin replicating itself, caus­ing cancer. 
Previous research has shown that MAP kinase sig­nals cells to proliferate, Malbon said. The new research established a link 
to other parts of their body, making the molecule a marker for those so-called metastatic cancers, he said. 
The discovery could allow doctors to test for high levels of MAP kinase in breast cells, allowing detection of breast cancer even before noticeable tumors develop, Malbon said. 
It also raises the possibility between extremely high levels of the molecule and the growth and spread of breast cancer. he said. 
Elevated levels of MAP kinase also were found in the lymph nodes of breast cancer patients whose cancer spread 
ovarabt.mdance of the substance. called MAP kinase,
switch 
forces breast cancer cells to reproduce wildly. 


of introducing special mole­cules to cancerous cells designed to "turn off" the MAP kinase cell. 
Such targeted treatment in cases that are detected early can be preferable to the more scattershot approaches of 
radiation therapy or chemotherapy, Malbon said. 
The Stony Brook study was funded in part by the American Cancer Society and involved examination of tissue specimens from more than 25 patients -some with normal breast tissue, some with breast cancer and some with other breast diseases. 
digital TVs soon 
By JEANNINE A VERSA 
Associated Press Writer 
WASIIINGTON 

Federal regulators are pre­pared to approve a plan Thursday to begin rolling out cinema-quality digital television to the public in 24 months. 
The Federal Communications Commission's plan caps 10 years of work to clear the way for the biggest industry advance since color in the 1950s. 
The 24-month rule will apply to stations owned or affiliated with ABC, CBS, NBC and Fox in the nation's top 10 markets. Network affiliates and owned stations in markets 11 through 30 will have 30 months to begin digital broadcasting and the rest of the stations will have l'ive years, FCC sources said, speak­ing on condition of anonymity. 
"This gives us a chance to redefine television and in partic­ular to redefine the public inter­est," said FCC Chairman Reed Hundt, announcing an agree­ment among the four commis­sioners. The plan will be official­ly adopted on Thursday. 
The commission already has received written pledges from at least 25 stations in the top 10 markets to offer digital broad­casts within 18 months-in time for the 1998 holiday shop­ping season, the FCC sources said. 
The next step up-high defin­ition television with its even sharper pictures and sound than digital TV -is being left up to each station under the FCC plan, according to sources familiar with it. Stations will be free to broadcast as little or as much digital high-definition programs as they want. 
With the new digital teclmolo­gy, TV stations could cram more services into their airwaves space. For example. they could offer sports scores to laptop computer users or even estab­lish a separate pay-for-view sports channel. 
Once the plan is formally approved, the FCC will immedi­ately begin issuing new digital broadcast licenses to every TV station in the country. 
Hundt had supported a short timetable for pushing digital television onto the market, a move endorsed by the manufac­turers of TV sets. 
As they convert to digital, broadcasters will be transmit­ting programs over two chan­nels: their existing analog; and a second digital channel that they'll get from the government for free. This way, existing ana­log TV sets will not be rendered immediately useless. 
The FCC's plan shortens the time broadcasters have to switch entirely to digital -from 15 years to nine years, or by 2006. Broadcasters don't like the new timetable, which matches a Clinton administration proposal. 
After 2006, broadcasters will no longer transmit programs in analog. That means people will either have to buy a new digital TV by then, or a device that would enable existing TV sets to receive the new signals. 

Have something to say? Use Observer classifieds. 
Do You Assume the Risk 
of Going to College?!? 
The ]ournal of College and University Law 
Notre Dame Law School 
presents 
Robert Bickel & Peter Lake 
speaking on the doctrine of In Loco Parentis 
April 4, 1997 4:00p.m. Law School Courtroom 



Reception to follow 


• ENGLAND 
Company stops alien coverage 
By EDITH LEDERER 
Associated Press Writer 
LONDON 
A company that insured the Heaven's Gate cult against abduction, impregnation or attack by aliens said Wednesday it has stopped offering that policy in the wake of the 39 cult members' sui­cide. 
"Innocent lives were wrecked." managing director Simon Burgess said. "We don't wish to contribute to a repeti­tion of the Heaven's Gate deaths." 
When the brokerage Goodfellow Rebecca Ingrams Pearson, known as GRIP, added alien insurance to its list of policies last summer, Heaven's Gate was one of 
• MEXICO 
Workers worried about hepatitis 
By MARK STEVENSON 
Associated Press Writer 
MEXICO CITY 
Mexican grower Conrad Gonzalez's regimen for his strawberry !ields includes well­water irrigation and a covering of plastic sheets to prevent the· plants from coming into contact with the soil. 
"It mav sound contentious, but \\'(' are 1~s good and maybe a lit­tle better than U.S. growers" in sanitation standards. Gonzalez says of the farms ncar San Quintin, in the border state of Baja California. 
But an outbreak of hepatitis 

The 
ickor~ 
Uillaee Love Affair 
Look At What 
$295 
Can Get You: 
• 
A3reat One-Bedroom Apartment 

• 
(Efficiencies from $280, 


i wo Bedrooms AvailablfJ from $355!) 
• 
Sparkling Povl and Sundeck 

• 
Bl)autiful Clubhouse 

• 
Acres of Rolling Lawns and Trees 

• 
Attentive Staff 

• 
Laundry Facilities 

• 
Cable TV Available Close to Great Shopping 

• 
Air Conditioning 

• 
24-hour Emergency Mi"intenance 


272-1880 
ICLEV~ 
•IICKORY ~ 
VILLAGE <
. 
~ 
EDISOH-~---t 
1-1-----+..McKINLEY 
JEFFERSON 

Call or stop by today and ~W'II show you how great hv1ng at H1ckory Village can be. 
rHlCKORU 
VlLLAC3EfA 
Mon.-Fri. 8-6, Sat. 10-4 &Sun. 12-4 
4,000 policyholders worldwide who bought it, Burgess said. Britain and the United States were the biggest markets. 
While those policies will not be renewed, the company still offers other unusual policies, which account for about 10 percent of business. 
"We insure virgins against immaculate conception; prosti­tutes against loss of earnings from headache and backache;· conversion to a werewolf or vampire; death or serious injury through paranormal activity; and unfaithful hus­bands against Bobbitting," he said. This was· a reference to John Bobbitt, whose wife sev­ered his penis in 1993. 
Burgess says he offers the unusual policies for the public­ity they bring. 
linked to strawberries grown 150 miles south of Tijuana and served at U.S. schools has Gonzalez fearing he may lose 
U.S. markets for his products. 
"If this goes beyond the cur­rent health problem ... the indus­try will be affected both in Mexico and the United States," says Gonzalez, president of the Coastal Fruit and Vegetable Growers Association. · 
Consumers in at least six U.S. states are believed to have been exposed to hepatitis through frozen strawberries, although 151 schoolchildren and teachers in Michigan arc the only people reported to have fallen ill. 
The Heaven's Gate cult learned of the company on the Internet, then bought a $1,000 policy on Oct. 10. 
It covered up to 50 members and would pay $1 million per person for abduction, impreg­nation or death caused by aliens. 
But the cult members took their own lives last week in a California mansion, seeking redemption in a spaceship they believed was trailing the Hale­Bopp comet. 
Their policy beneficiary was the Society of Heaven's Gate. The cult paid the premium and the policy remains in force until Oct. 9, hut collecting is another issue entirely. 
"They would have to prove that they were abducted," Burgess said. 
Mexican participants in the $1.9 billion-a-year produce export business -which has blossomed in the two years since the North American Bree Trade Agreement took effect -deny they are to blame for the out­break. 
"I don't think irrigation water was the source of this infection," said Israel Camacho, assistant secretary of agriculture for Baja California. 
"It is more likely that the strawberries were contaminat­ed, if they were contaminated, during processing and packing rather than during cultivation," he said. 
Free and open to the public. 
it's eo m I• n g • • 
PREVIEW NIGHT 
Wednesday April 9 at 7:30 pm in the band building 
Admission is FREE Refreshments Provided 
Listen to ND's Jazz bands play one last time before CJF begins next Weekend! 
Tree Plan.ting 
help plant 1,750 trees 
Sunday9 APril 6 Volunteers Needed 
Students for Environmental Action 
• 
THE 
FESTIVAL 
Friday & Saturday Aprilll-12 Stepan Center 

Enjoy music played by students and jazz greats from across the country! 
-----~-----------·-----·-fo -----------·----------------------~-......._­
----~----·------•-.....-ow_ _.._-----­
page 10 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT Friday, April 4, 1997 

With joy and thanksgiving the Congregation of Holy Cross and the families of Brent Allen l(ruger, C.S. C. James Martin Lies, C.S.C . 
.... 

John Arthur Steele, C.S.C. Stephan Sullivan Wilbricht, C.S.C. announce the ordination of our brothers and sons for service to the People of God 
Through the ancient Christian signs ofthe laying on ofhands and the prayer of the Church the Office of Presbyter will be conferred by: 
The Most Reverend Charles A. Schleck, C.S.C. Titular Archbishop of Africa Adjunct Secretary Congregation for the Evangelization of Peoples 
On Saturday, April 5, 1997 Basilica ofSacred Heart University ofNotre Dame Notre Dame, Indiana 

Friday, April 4, 1997 The Observer • WASHINGTON-NEWS page 11 
) Clinton takes center stage in fund-raising rush 
By JOHN SOLOMON 
Associated Press Writer 
WASHINGTON 
Eager to raise millions for President Clinton's re-election, Democratic fund-raisers laid out precise and ambitious goals: Events with the president should raise $50 million, those with Vice President Al Gore, $10.8 million; those with Hillary Rodham Clinton, $5 mil­lion, according to documents 
For ticket information, roll: 219/284-4626 
released Wednesday. 
"Ugh," Clinton scribbled alongside a memo from aide Phil Caplan that detailed the Democratic Party's expected debts and even recommended budgeting $1 million for "potential fines" after the 1996 electiln. 
"I think we can do better w/mail if we have the right message," Clinton wrote back another time when then-deputy chief of staff Harold Ickes raised concerns that the Democratic Party wasn't rais­ing enough money to spen~ in federal races. 
The documents were among hundreds of pages from Ickes' White House files that were turned over last month to con­gressional committees investi­gating allegations of fund-rais­ing abuses. The papers were released Wednesday by the White House. 
The memos portray a White House eager to exploit the money-drawing powers of its chief occupants while intimate­ly coordinating a Democratic fund-raising machine it now admits was out of control. 
Many of the memos are blunt -laying out precise and ambi­tious goals. 
One page attached to an Ickes memo projected the president should raise $50.2 million by attending fund-raising events, while Gore should bring in $10.8 million and Mrs. Clinton an additional $5 million. 
The first lady was slated for a variety of fund-raising activities in the documents, from making 10 calls to donors to being host for a "Pakistani event" that would raise $100,000. 
If the various lists of fund­raisers were added up, the total associated with the presi­dent's possible attendance could have been as much as $70 million -from coffees and dinners to a conference call expected to yield $100,000. 

Harold Ickes 
"The fund-raising needs for the DNC will require a very substantial commitment of time from the President, the Vice President, the First Lady and Mrs. Gore," Ickes wrote in one memo directly to Clinton and Gore. 
The words "very substantial" were underlined. 
The release of the documents dominated the daily press briefing at the White House, where officials once again found themselves defending the extensive time spent by the president, vice president and presidential aides on political fund raising. 
"The Republicans outspent us," and it was a "difficult political contest," White House counsel Lanny Davis said. 
Press secretary Mike McCurry added: "If you ask the Republican National Committee to present you with their analo­gous set of documents ... you'd see the same thing." 

The White House documents show that at least in one instance Ickes was kept apprised of the large amounts of money raised by a handful of donors who attended two coffee klatches with Clinton in June 1996. 
"Harold, here are the coffee attendees (with POTUS) and amts. raised," read a handwrit­ten cover letter faxed to Ickes from the DNC about two weeks after the coffees. 

An accompanying list s~owed that each attendee had raised or donated between $50,000 and $100,000 -for a total of $1 million. Some had asterisks alongside their names to denote "contributions are in installments." 

Ducks, Rabbits~rechauns 
Experience the natural serenity qf North Shore Club, just minutesfrom Notre Dame. 
• 
A wise investment for alumni, faculty and parents 

• 
Townhomes and condominiums from $84,990 

• 
Waterfront views • Exterior maintenance provided 


. . ~~~ 
Come v1s1t us at #..,.,_(il""' 
North Shore Club ~~.!i 
Angela at the St. joseph River • South Bend 
Furnished Models Open 
now located at Universit Park Mall! 

®SKECHERS.! 
G.H. BASS &Co. CABLE & Co. 
---SINCE 1876­

Kenneth (:ole D~~~~1). 
BOSTONIAN C.laM<s Simple.M~ 
These great brands and more. Get a FREE garment dyed T-shirt with your purchase of $50 or more. 
Offer good while supplies last. Coupon must be presented at the time of purchase. 
ENTERTAINMENT YOUR WAY! 
Wedding Receptions are
.'.Al\.ms

B Our Specialty 
• Over 20 Disk Jockeys
UN-~~~D 
including a wide variety of music 
BOOKING AGENCY 

• Uve Bands 
• 
String Quartets 

• 
Pianists and Harpists 

• 
Vocalists 

• 
And Featuring Moonlight Oasis: A blend of DJ, MC. vocalist and light show


219-243-9204 

We Want You... ---.... to Teach Aerobic~! l!ec~port~ will be holding audition~ for ~tep, hiI lo and toning in~tructor~ for it~ '92'0'98 ~taft on Thur~day, April 24, (iym I, @ the Joyce Center. 
Nere'.§ what you need to do: 
I. Pick up an ln~tructor application from Rec~port~ 
l!etum the completed fonn and a blank caMeffe tape by Thur~ay, A.priiiO. 
2. Check out the video to learn the routine to be performed at audition~. 
3. ~el up an Interview with Jennie Phillip~. fitneM Coordinator 105965. 
~ 

I TltAiI HousE I
I ~
RESTAURANT­
~ ~
ISpecializing in Authentic Thai Cuisin 
~ Come in and try our exotic and spicy Thai food~ i Dine in or Carry Out ~ 
~ ~ 
I ~ 257-4875 I ~ 
~15% discount when you bring in ad! I
I jiHAIHOUSE g BUSINESS HOURS I ~ • D D w Mon.-Thur. ~ 
fo!l ~ 11am-9pm ~ Martins K-Mart ~ fri.-Sat. 11am-10pm ~ CJ Sun. 12-Spm ~ 508 W. McKinle Mishawaka, IN ~ 
~@I 
Friday, April 4, 1997

page 12 The Observer· WASHINGTON NEWS 
Hubbell meets with Clinton, denies Whitewater allegations 
By RON FOURNIER 
Associated Press Writer 
WASHINGTON 
Shortly after White House aides began an effort to secure him financial help, Webster Hubbell met with President Clinton at his 
.--......,.---....... Camp David retreat and denied the accusations against him. "I didn't tell him the 
t r u t h , " ~-"-----"'~ Hubbell said Clinton Thursday. 
Hubbell. a Whitewater figure, said he knew at the time of the July 1994 meeting he had bilked his former law firm but lied to the president about it. Months later, Hubbell reversed course and pleaded guilty. 
"The president asked me if I'd done something wrong," Hubbell said in a telephone interview from Little Rock, Ark. "And I didn't tell him the truth." 
Hubbell, one of the president's closest confidants, abruptly resigned from the No. 3 Justice Department job in March 1994 amid reports of a billing dispute with the Little Rock law firm where he and Hillary Rodham Clinton had been partners. 
At least three top administra­tion officials, including then­Chief of Staff Mack McLarty and current White House staff chief Erskine Bowles, made calls to find Hubbell work in the days that followed, and Hubbell reportedly landed several hun­dreds of thousands of dollars of work. 
Whitewater prosecutors, frus­trated by Hubbell's memory lapses as he cooperated with their probe, are now looking into whether the financial assis­tance influenced his response to investigators. Hubbell and the White House both deny that it did. 
Expressing deep regret for 
misleading Clinton and other 
friends, Hubbell said he gave 
the president no reason to 
believe he was anything but 
The lan and mos po literature, fasc beauty and internati 
Learn fast: 
Contact: 
innocent of accusations that he stole money from his former law firm and some of its clients. 
"The president and first lady did not know and I did not tell them I committed a crime until I pleaded guilty," Hubbell said. 
On Thursday, Clinton said McLarty and Bowles had acted "just out of human compassion" and that what they did was entirely proper because they believed Hubbell had done noth­ing wrong. 
"At the time that .was done, no one had any idea about what the nature of the allegations were against Mr. Hubbell or whether they were true," Clinton said. 
"Everybody th'?ught there was some sort of billing dispute with his law firm and that's all any­body knew about it, so, no, I do not think they did anything improper." 
As the president defended his associates, a Little Rock grand jury investigating payments made to Hubbell summoned a businessman who had hired the former associate attorney gen­eral at the request of Clinton friends. The grand jury also heard testimony from James McDougal, the convicted former. business partner of Clinton. 
Hubbell said he was sum­
moned to Camp David in June 
or July of 1994 to play golf with 
Clinton -some four months 
after his resignation. With 
Hillary Rodham Clinton inside 
the presidential cabin, Hubbell 
and Clinton went for a walk. 
"He believed me and I was 
wrong," Hubbell said. "I want 
to make sure I emphasize 
that.. .. I hurt my friends, not 
just by committing the crime but 
in how I dealt with my friends 
afterward. I did not face up to 
my criminality initially, even 
after I left Justice. I have now." 
White House special counsel 
Lanny Davis confirmed the 
meeting. 
"Based upon our records, it 
appears Mr. Hubbell visited 
President and Mrs. Clinton dur-'------------------------------------_J 
ing a social weekend at Camp David over the July fourth weekend," Davis said. 
"We have no reason to dis-
e 
argest 
f rich natural rtunities 

~m•~ 
~ New Spring Arrivals ~­
~ 1 Oo/o off witla student ID ~ 
~ • Hemp, Beaded & Silver Jewelry 
~  • Unique Dresses  
(g!~fi!l (g!  HOURS:M • F: 10 • 7  • Urban Outfitters • Toe Rings  
~  Sat:  10-6  • Mexican Purses  
~  • Vintage Levis  
~  TJIE 1912 s . 11th st.  

Just 2.5 mi North of IN state line 
~ (U.S. 31) ~ 
~STYLE B~:::5PI~~a -[687-9123[ ~ ~ CO., INC. B-Iii C1:, ~ ~ 
~m•~m 
~ 
We igJ Buy igJ~
fi!l
Used Levi's @ 
~ 
~ 

pute Mr. Hubbell's memory that that has been at the center of he told the president and first investigations into whether for­lady that he had done nothing eign money was funneled to wrong," he said. Democratic campaigns. · 
After leaving the Justice White House press secretary Department, Hubbell received Mike McCurry said the presi­about $100,000 from the Lippo dent "is not in a position to ren­Group, an Indonesian company der a judgment about what Mr. 
MEET YOUR NEW RESEARCH ASSISTANT: 
''FirstSearch'' 
On Trial until Apri/30, 1997 
The University Libraries ofNotre Dame invite you to search our newest online reference database, FirstSearch. 
FirstSearch is a collection of over 60 databases covering a wide range of academic disciplines. For example, with FirstSearch if your area is the sciences, BIOSIS, GenSci Abstracts, MEDLINE, GeoRef, GEOBASE, and EnvironmentS are just a few of the indexes that can assist you with your research. Search business and economic literature by using the EconLit Database or the ABIIINFORM, a major index for articles related to business. Dissertation Abstracts, FactSearch, a database to current statistics on a variety of topics, and databases in the areas ofthe arts and humanities are readily available. FirstSearch also gives you immediate access to the holdings of20,000 libraries worldwide via WorldCat. In addition, newspaper articles, general periodicals and some full-text materials can be accessed via FirstSearch. 
After trying FirstSearch, the Libraries would appreciate your comments in two areas: the coverage and content ofthe indexes and the access software and its features. Also, after the trial period the University Libraries may choose to subscribe to one or more of the 60 databases. FirstSearch and an e-mail link to enter your comments can be reached through the Libraries' homepage. 
The URL is: 

http://www.nd.edu/-ndlibs/iac.htm 
Hubbell did or did not do when he had been retained by the Lippo Group. It's not his position to judge what was then a pri­vate citizen in his own pursuit of gainful employment. I mean, he doesn't render an opinion on something like that." ­

·#4 ·11-~p;s.J7:R·A 
V$~. ·#1'8 ·N·ol7:R:J$· :J)A..~:J$· Friday, 3:00pm Moose Krause Stadium 
**FREE Mini Lacrosse Balls to those in attendance! 
·N·:I) SOFT·I3·A·L:i...
. . . . .... "' 
I VS.t._ 
~mosYo··N: ;~O·L:L:E'·G~· .(·:,2~
I . . -. .. . '-. . . . . . -~ . -" 
: Friday, 4:00pm : Ivy Field 
I /fJ!zee p· wdj k .
I "f' ~ c;w-en 
: to.~ai:t/w,~/
I 


VIEWPOINT 
Friday, April 4, 1997 page 13 
THE OBSERVER 
NoTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1997-98 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Brad Prendergast Managing Editor Business Manager Jamie Heisler Tom Roland Assistant Managing Editor 
Maureen Hurley News Editor............................Heather Cocks Advertising Manager.............................. Jed Peters Viewpoint Editor .....................Dan Cichalski Ad Design Manager..........................Wendy Klare Sports Editor .................................. Mike Day Production Manager......................... Mark DeBoy Accent Editor........................... Joey Crawford Systems Manager ....................... Michael Brouillet Saint Mary's Editor ........................ Lori Allen Controller............................................ Kyle Carlin Photo Editor ........................... Katie Kroener 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the srudents of the University of Notre Dame du L1.c and Sainr Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect rhe policies of the administration of either insriwrion. The news is reponed as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of rhe majoriry of rhe Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editor, News Ediror, Viewpoint Ediror, Sports Editor. Accent Editor, Saint Mary's Editor, Pharo Editor, and Associate News Editor. Commentaries, leners and Inside Columns present the views of the authors, and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's community and ro all readers. The free expression of varying opinions through lerrers is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 
Editor-in-Chief 631-4542 Business Office 631-5313 Managing Editor/Viewpoint 631-4 541 Advertising 631-6900/8840 News/Photo 631-5323 Systems 631-8839 Sports 631-4543 Office Manager 631-7471 Accem/Sainr Mary's 631-4540 Fax 631-6927 Day Ediror/Producrion 631-5303 Viewpoint E-Mail Viewpoint. I @nd.edu General Informacion 631-7471 Ad E-Mail observer@darwin.cc.nd.edu 
• CAPITOl COMMENTS 
Internet content must not be censored 
•  000NESBURY  GARRY TRUDEAU •  
OKAY, 1 A/JMfT IT-TJ.I& R£­C&NT ~Pm-& OF BAP N£11Jt;. HA~ &OT M& A L.ITTt.£ BLU&!  fT'§ ATTIM£5 liKE Till? -IJJII£N TH£ t«JRt/J TtJR/>15 f)A.RK ANP l.JGt,Y-TIVITI TURN TO MY 7RU&5T '3aJK£ OFCOMRJRJ;. ONlY HOPE FOR TH5 RJ7VR&  


The stomach irritation commercial blared, "(Product name) reduces acid faster than any other relief remedy." Yet, across the bottom of the television screen displayed a disclaimer in tiny let­ters. "The rate of acid reduction does not imply the rate of relief." What was craftily said by the announcer actually was true, but had nothing to do with faster relief. 

Gary Caruso 
Traditionally, such artful writing and cunning delivery have allowed marketing professionals to mislead the public whtle walking the fine line between truth and freedom of speech. While their content may have technically been correct, their wily presentation implied a statement that was not true. Freedom of speech guarantees permit such technical cor­rectness, but federal regulations guaran­tee accuracy in advertising. The tug of war on public expression constantly stretches like Silly Putty. 
Currently, the Supreme Court is consid­ering the free speech merits of a law Congress passed last year which limits the content of the Internet. Supporters of the law are attempting to ban what they call "pornography" on the Internet. They remind me of the writers of the acid relief commercial. They have an agenda that pulls at the edges of the Bill of Rights. If they succeed in pulling those edges like Silly Putty, the entire Bill of Rights will eventually stretch so as to only protect a select portion of our soci­ety. 
Crusades against nudity, boastful sexu­al encounter stories or solicitations to meet others are moral, decent and virtu­ous acts in themselves. However, the crusade does not lie within the definition of free speech. Limiting one's ability to express sexual content may limit "inde­cency," which is protected by free speech, rather than "pornography," which can be limited. 
This Supreme Court decision, expect­ed in July, will be the first definitive guideline for Internet content. It will probably be the first of a number of deci­sions which the court should consider. The court should consider policies like the one imposed by Notre Dame on its students which prohibits content con­trary to the mission of the University and the Catholic Church. 
Granted, nudity published in a maga­zine and sold in a South Bend store may actually fail the "local standards" test on campus. So Notre Dame probably can continue to shut down student home pages like the administration did last year when a graduate student posted previously published nude photographs on the NO server. However, a student who is not Catholic and believes in another religion-or even better, believes in something so diabolically opposed to the Church as devil worship -must be free to publish that belief, or nobody has free speech rights. 
Students who believe in abortion, rights for gays, contraception and women priests should have the right to post such announcements on the University's web site. Regardless of the fact that the University provides the com­puter on-line service, free speech for one student paves the way for free speech for all students. This may be especially true when one examines the NO home page disclaimer that states that opinions on the home pages are those of the students. 
Can the University exercise any parental authority over persons who are over 18 years of age and legal adults? Does the University attempt to exert sep­arate standards toward married students over unmarried ones, over Catholic stu­dents versus non-Catholics, or over those on campus versus those off campus? 
My mother and I argue constantly about prayer in school and abortion. 
claim that in a free society, everyone remains free when nobody is denied a choice ... period. I recall that when I was in the third grade in public school, dur­ing the days when prayer in school was permitted, I had a Protestant teacher who lead us in reciting the Lord's Prayer using "debts" instead of the Catholic ver­sion using "trespass." I would squeeze my eyes tightly closed and whisper "tres­pass" while I feared that I would go to hell for saying the "wrong" prayer. 
Eight-year-olds tend to make situations more dramatic than they actually are, and I was no exception. However, the fact remained that my right to say my prayer or someone else's right to say no prayer were being violated. The same holds true for expression on a campus that considers itself open to listening to all opinions in an open dialogue. I per­sonally believe that nude pictures are a bit much for home pages, but in many places they are within the "local stan­dards" tests for pornography. 
I don't practice devil worshipping, nor do I associate with such cults. However, if one follower were somehow to be admitted to Notre Dame and wanted to post "The Devil Rules" on a home page, I would be the first to support that right. I believe that the best argument for moral­ity -the best way to convince others to support virtuous points of view -is to contrast decency with indecency. Let the indecent stand next to the decent, and good people will make the correct choice. 
Former New York Governor Mario Cuomo took unnecessary grief over the abortion issue from fellow Catholics in the 1980s. As a public official, Cuomo supported the law as it applied equally to everyone. As a Catholic, he practiced his religion where he should have, with his family at his church. Maybe, only if he was the governor of the Vatican, could he have imposed his religion on his con­stituency. 
Notre Dame administrators should con­sider adopting a philosophy similar to that of former Chicago Cardinal Joseph Bernardin. The Catholic Church can stand on its beliefs while reaching out to those who differ with doctrine. Church leaders can listen to and debate with so­called "outcasts" in open forums while maintaining their confidence and convic­tions. 
Openness is not an admission of acqui­escence. Rather, it stimulates thought and conscience. The church leader who respectfully challenges while teaching probably commands more esteem, and ultimately conformity, from the congre­gation than the leader who stands on doctrine without at least listening to oth­ers. 
In our modern society, everyone real­izes that a percentage of any church or organization or alumni group will differ from its leaders. Nobody expects Liberty University or Notre Dame or Oral Roberts to graduate class after class of alumni who all will follow every law every day of their lives. We all hear about the gradu­ate who got arrested or divorced or fell prey to substance abuse or gambling. It happens, and nobody can blame a church or school for that "bad seed." 
If the criminal on television, who expresses his free speech by wearing a Notre Dame Irish sweatshirt, does not reflect poorly on the University, how can a student or alumnus who believes in contraception reflect poorly on the Catholic Church or the University? It happens. Get over it. 
Notre Dame should study the Supreme Court's July decision closely, and modify its policy regarding Internet content accordingly. Most court watchers sus­pect that the ban on the Internet's con­tent will be struck down in favor of free speech. It would be a shame if the next case heard was one called "Student v. Notre Dame." 
Gary J. Caruso, Notre Dame '73, worked at the U.S. House of Representatives for eighteen years and is now a publicist with the International Union ofElectronics Workers (IUE) in Washington, D.C. His column appears every other Friday and his Internet address is hottline@aol. com. 
• fiUOTE OF THE DAY 
"Where I was born and 
where and how I have lived is unimportant. It is what I have done with where I have been that should be of interest_" 
-Georgia O'Keeffe 

------·---------------------------------------------·-----·-·-----------­
r---------------~~----~ -----------~----~~---~-------------~--------......---------­
VIEWPOINT 
page 14 Friday, April 4, 1997 
• RIGHT ANO WRONG 
Playing God: The threat of human cloning 
"Human cloni~ will take place ... in my human well-being. But ... creating an criteria of the moral law ... lTJhey must human life. In this perspective, contra­lifetime," says Sen. Tom Harkin (D­entire human being, identical to anoth­be at the service of the human person ... ception is ... so profoundly unlawful as Iowa). If you want a safe bet, forget the er, [isJ playing God, and that is where according to the design and will of God." never to be, for any reason, justified ... Chicago Cubs. Put your money on Sen. we must draw the line." Sen. Harkin, Unfortunately, as author Kirkpatrick [T)o say the contrary is equal to main­Harkin. however, said: "I don't think we can Sale predicts, "In a world that ... com­taining that ... it is lawful not to recog­

Dolly the sheep, the first verifiably stop the inevitable march of science." modifies gene-splicing, amniocenteses nize God as God." cloned animal, was introduced to the He also said, "I don't think cloning is and in vitro fertilization, there cannot !Iuman cloning is one of numerous world by Dr. Ian Wilmut in Edinburgh demeaning to human nature." be any lasting legal restraints on ... aberrations that share the premises of this February. Dr. Wilmut took from an Princeton biology professor Lee Silver reproductive technology ... [W]hen the the contraceptive ethic. If we claim the adult "donor" sheep a cell which he noted that, with cloning ability, it Supreme Court found in 1980 that right to act as arbiters of when life shall then treated so that all its genes could "becomes feasible" to add genes to cor­patenting genetically created life was begin, we will predictable make our­

rect a genetic disease or genetically legal, and thus that people could make selves arbiters of when it shall end, as enhance a person. "All of a sudden, profits from it, it opened a floodgate ... in abortion and euthanasia. If we claim genetic engineering is ... easier." The history of science is the history of the right to separate deliberately the Genetic engineering might be justified the dominance of technology ... over set­unitive and procreative aspects of sex, for therapeutic purposes, to correct ge­tled human societies and ordered how can we criticize homosexual activi­
Charles 
netic defects. Or it could be unjustified if human perceptions." ty on any ground other than the esthetic used, for example, to produce "design­The second reason why human or the practical? In Humanae Vitae, er" people to fill assigned roles or per­cloning will not be effectively prohibited Pope Paul VI warned that through con­
form certain tasks. Incidentally, it is not is the dominance of the contraceptive traception, man "may finally lose true that genetically engineering, for ethic. When the 1930 Anglican Lambeth respect for the woman and ... may !con­example, very tall persons with longer Conference approved a limited sider) her as a mere instrument of self­arms would guarantee a Final Four allowance of contraception, it was the ish enjoyment." This is so because, with be activated to develop into a lamb. He team 20 years thence. Other factors first time that any Christian denomina­contraception, sexual activity is no electrically fused that cell with the would influence their development, tion had declared that contraception longer total self-donation, but instead it unfertilized egg of a ewe, from which including variations in coaching, (unless could ever be objectively right. As a becomes an exercise in mutual mastur­egg the nucleus containing the DNA of you want to clone Bobby Knight). Washington Post editorial objected, bation and the woman becomes an 
, the ewe had been removed. The fused Similarly, while a human clone would "The church must either reject the plain object. Cloning would decisively confirm cell and egg interacted and developed have a genetic mak~up identical to the teachings of the Bible or reject schemes the status of woman as an object, an 
Rice 
r 
into a lamb embryo. Since the ewe's "donor" of its genetic material, that for the 'scientific' production of human impersonal egg bank. 
r 
DNA had been removed, the only DNA would not guarantee that they would be souls." It is futile to try to put the brakes ont in the embryo was that of the "donor." indistinguishable. Environmental and Contraception, like cloning, in vitro human cloning, or abortion or euthana­r The embryo was then implanted in a other factors would operate, as they do fertilization and other technological sia, without restoring the conviction that ' "surrogate mother" sheep and carried with identical twins who share the same modes of creating life, involves the God, and not man, is the arbiter of when 
to term. The result is Dolly, a sheep that genetic makeup. deliberate separation of the unitive and and how life begins and ends. This re­is a genetic copy of the "donor" sheep. The Catholic Church condemns human procreative aspects of sex. Pope John quires a reassessment and rejection of 
Dr. Wilmut predicts that we can "pro­cloning. The 1987 Instruction on Paul saic;l that, in contraception, couples contraception. duce," in the next two or three years, Bioethics said that attempts "for obtain­"act as arbiters of the divine plan and In the meantime, don't bet against [cloned] animals' whose milk would ing a human being without any connec­they manipulate and degrade human Sen. Harkin's prediction. But do yourself contain "proteins to treat human illness­tion with sexuality [through cloning are] sexuality and with it themselves and a favor. Read, and pray about, es, such as hemophilia." Cloned sheep contrary to the moral law, since they their married partner by altering its Humanae Vitae and John Paul's Letter "will offer ... models to study cystic are in opposition to the dignity both of value of total self-giving." to Families (1994) and Evangelium fibrosis ... [T]here could be no limits on human procreation and of the conjugal The question is: Who is in charge? Vitae (1995). Share them with your the­the possible diseases to be treated." But union." Man or God? As John Paul put it, in con­ology professor. He or she might learn he said it would be "inhumane" to clone For two reasons it is unlikely that any traception "men and women ... claim a something and might even thank you for human beings. effective prohibition of human cloning power which belongs solely to God: the it. And we do have anonymous grading. 
Sen. Christopher Bond (R.-Mo.). intro­will be enacted. One reason is the pre­power to decide, in a final analysis, the ducing his bill to bar federal funding of vailing liberation of technology from coming into existence of a human per­Professor Rice is on the Law School research Ol'l. human cloning. said: "For moral restraints. John Paul II insisted in son. They [act not as) cooperators in faculty His column appears every other plants and animals, it makes sense to Bioethics that "science and technology God's creative power, but las) the ulti­Friday. clone your specimens to improve ... require ... respect for the fundamental mate depositories of the source of 
• lETTER TO THE EDITOR ' • ~t~ffER TO THE EDITOR 
Thank you for 
,., :Ulaming hip-hop for our proble01s 
Dear Editor,

the humility 
This is in response to Eduardo Llull's article called "Returning to our roots." In this article, Mr. Llull cited thal hip-hop (yes. rap) reflects a violent and materialistic nature, indicative of "the loss of virtue and morali­Dear Editor, 
,,_, ty throl!gh,Ea lack of Go<}." I wonder if Mr. LluU,is suggesting that all rap falls under this criticism. Also, wouldn't this imply that there are no positive, God-loving rappers? I hope not, because you would be sadlyFather Warner, Father Jenky and Sister Teresita, !l!ltmistaken to deny ho'Y often topics of religion come upamong certain rappers. Perhaps you may not know , tb!s by listening tothe radio or watching MTV, but how could you criticize an entire genre withoutI would like to thank you for the small change at re,~earfhin{fit? J)ld Mr. LlulL do his homework}lefore writing the article, or is he deaf to the lyrics that 10:30 Mass in the Basilica the last few weeks 

mean somethingto people all across the world? 
prior to break. I have noticed that the servers ·c;les blaming hiphQp,Jot.the,prohlems of' tb~ wodd topay~ Mr. pull wants to br1ng religion (assumingly have been kneeling during the consecration at licism) into publicschools, "and in this way direct us to His goodness." Does Mr. Uull realize what he Mass. This has made for an atmosphere where I .._••,•.·-._ lipscllools4J:l the United State~•. ofAm:tit:ica are NOT for religi9us education. Surely. the beautyam more comfortable recognizing the relationship eedoms enjoyed by all of us cannot be forsaken simply because you may not comprehend howbetween myself and God, and judging from the !>.afjotlit~:rperson tnayfeel.ofl'ended by being th.e Jl1inorlty in the environmentthat Mr. Llull is suggesting. Mr. 
receptiveness of the congregation, the community Llull .}limself claimed that he was ''conditioned by his teachers to think that religion did not belong in the does as well. 
_·.. cl!I$St()omli!t.Likewise, .don't you see how someone could be ''conditioned" in other ways (i.e., God is the solu­It is strange for me to see a society where we ti?n to. all your problems.). Besides this, American schools are falling behind the rest of the world. Is new 
stand for the entrance of our president, and for .­
religio'l.ls curriculum the answer? I don\think so;.
the entrance of any judge, in recognition of the . Howcould being faithful to God help a poor, urban youth going to a sub-standard school? With littlerelationship between us, yet we are reluctant to V';leitrnt';ld intbedasst()Ol1l;tfew options to make a ljving;.and virtually no chance to move up the social ladder,recognize the relationship between ourselves and 
how could religion deter crime and violence? · 
God. 
Mr, Liull sitid that;~America is conditioned,· as lwas. to believe that God belongs in the Church and not inKneeling is not foreign to our Anglo-American .o~r ~yery?ay llyes.'' I agree. Persons may call themselves Christians, yet refuse to pay for welfare and pub­culture. Last week Paul McCartney knelt to recog­li~ scb(}olS outside ()f their district. At the same time; their childre,n are..given every advantage that a childnize the relationship between himself and Queen des .. : What ever happened to the Golden Rule? Furthermore, Mr. Llull says that God once did influence Elizabeth as she knighted him. I feel uncomfort­oth· U. _· . When? Wll.en blacks wete under the c})ams of slavery? When Native Americans were denied cHi­
able in a congregation that does not recognize 
ship? W?en women_ were., denied the right to vote? When people were denied basic common courtesythat they are in the presence of the King of Kings dehiedsei:'vi.ces; based solely on the color Q~their skin? Mr. Llull named his article "Returning to our
and Lord of Lords. , _•• _s," W!J?seroots, I ask_By the way, America was violent and materialisticlong before hip-hop .•
It certainly is a positive sign that the Basilica at ( -Not Pt)ly.do Ieonsiderit hypocritical for a Catholic to refuse to pay for a m0re egalitarian society, I find itNotre Dame has chosen to recognize in a small l1JP,icro11s ~? trace the problems of our country to religion. One of the cornerstones of our society is the free­
way the greatness of the sacramental presence 
dom U:om religion; whatever a misguided Notre D8Jlle studerit newspaper editor may have you believe. The
which we come together to celebrate. Taking a 
lpssll.a,~k (}f.religionamong many people is an effect of other things in our culture. not a cause. In an envi·physical position which recognizes the relation­•·• :tonm~nt filled ;With drugs; crime,· violence; sub•standard schools, • materialism, racism, dysfunctional fami­ship between ourselves and our Lord makes our ~e~.]:)~ok~pfallliHes, and a growi11g gap between th~ classes in this society, it is very easy to stray from your"amen" at the end of the eucharistic prayer ring '¢o»ceptiotf of 4 virt1)6Us lifestyle:·Jn these circ\tmstanees, r(lligion does little to remedy these problemsout ever more loudly as we recognize Him with e$ er-e~ti11g a population content with the s~rife _in their lives with the hopes of an afterlife. .. · our whole selves. 
,; ·_ ·g¢ Mf, LhrRand otbers who think like him to read thisletter for what it is. Inno\wayis this a personal a1tac~; Ij1J~t c11:n notallow Mr, Llull's line o[thillkingto go unques~oned. All [ask is for the consideration of some 6f thtrissuesthat I'hrought up. !W\i@IHit'''1"''''''''''::' i;~i!t' · ';:t
JOSEPH BROSSART Law Student 


DAVID K. BUCKLEY Freshman Keenan Hall 
.---------------------------------------~~----~---------------------~-~-----------------------------------------------------------­
ACCENT
Friday, April4, 1997 page 15 ­
lFrnlli~9 l1fill~IP311lrniKB9 3)U)dJ CBIPCDwfime illiP 
SMC celebrates the twentieth anniversary of its 
lrelan·d Progratn  
By NORA MEANY  Margaret McCarthy, referred to as Peg by her stu­ the taste oflreland's mythical beers.  
Saint Mary's Accent Editor  dents, will be on hand for the party as well. A con­ "I do miss the beer," stated Connie Casson, Ireland  
ast year was definitely a 'growing up' period in my life. My views on what had once been so familiar and secure were adjusted as I experienced new ''Lsocial and cultural awareness.  stant fixture with the program from the start, she runs the program from Maynooth and also teaches the Irish History class for the American students. Many pro­grammers rate McCarthy's famous weekend field trips through the countryside ·of Ireland as some of their favorite memories. Peg herself is a graduate  Program 95-96, "However, I'm hesitant to say that I miss that the most out of everything. I think I miss the sheep more. Or maybe the rain -it never rains in South Bend." Today, volunteers from past years will register the out of town graduates in Haggar  
Ireland is unique in that it may be one of the few  from Saint Mary's, and this weekend  Parlor from 4 to 6 p.m.  
places where you can sit down, anywhere, and chat to  promises to be a homecoming  Next, there is a  
someone about everything and nothing all at the same  celebration for her on top  Counselor's Dessert  
time." Hollis Janowak, who made the Ireland  of the reunion.  and Reception in  
Program excursion during 1995-1996  "I am looking  Haggar for all for­ 
For the past 20 years, Saint Mary's College has sent  forward  mer participants at  
a well-selected group of eager young Americans to  to seeing  8 p.m. No doubt  
study at Saint Patrick's  Overdorf will  
College in Maynooth, Ireland.  supply a  
Presently, over 550 students  g 0 0 d  
have participated in the  amount of  
program, taking a plunge  Irish milk  
into the world of Irish cul­ chocolate  
ture.  a.>for all in  
Mostly made up of  atten­ 
Saint Mary's and Notre  dance.  
Dame undergraduates.  Since  
the students approach  sweets  
their year with a mix o  w i l l  
apprehension and  '"'·'i'" . abound at  
excitement. While  _;../-...the recep­ 
visions of a perfectly poured Guinness dance in  ,' t i o n , ,..-­S h a r i  
their heads, most student face the fear of assimi­ "' planned a Power  
lating into a foreign cul­ Walk from  
ture. But by year's  LeMans  
end, each stu­ Courtyard to  
dent boasts won­ the Grotto on  
derful and  Saturday, from 8 to  --I  
unique memo­ 9 a.m. The walk,  
ries of their year in "The Motherland."  planned "in memory of all the miles you walked in Ireland,"  
Returning  will not be depen­ 
home can be ..,..••••  dent of the weath­ 
difficult, howev­•d •  er. "In case of  
er, as many stu­ rain, " Shair stated  
dents have found.  on the schedule,  
To go from a slower and more relaxed way of life back to the  · no change of plans, of course." In honor of the  
demands and deadlines of life in South Bend takes  damp conditions that were faced  
a bit of coping and adjust­ment. Many students choose  by all while abroad, the  
to stay in touch with their Irish "mates" and friends from  programmers will once  
the program on a regular basis, reminiscing about their experiences. "Our year has been very close," says Karen Godwin of the 95-96 Ireland Program. "We always  again he j able to demonstrate their ability/I to be "wash Mint and wear"  
seize an opportunity when we can get together to tell sto­ries, share pictures and even f a pint." ·  I Irish.\ I After the l walk, there willf\ be a soccer match  
Karen's sister, Michelle,  held in the field  
studied abroad through the program three years before 1 her. This weekend, 1 Michelle counts her-· j self as one of over a-.' 1oo former . -~U' "program­:., . -" . mers" that f. , ' ' ··l· · will come ~I ~'-'i""._..-...-'~·-.. together ..·/ -;> ·:.:,. o._. : · on the ........... . campus of S a i n t Mary's to  behind Angela. Sports were not a foreign notion to the athletic and unathlet­ic alike, and many of the programmers boast having held a place on one of Maynooth's many sports teams. However. unlike the competitions at Saint Patrick's, there will not be a keg on tap for halftime. A Ceili will be held from 2 to 4  _._I  
celebrate the 20th .,....,,...,...... anniver­~, . sary of the program's beginning. :,:;r,< :;JJ;):i?'} The week­end's festivi­ties were primari­ly planned by Shari Overdorf, the program's coordi­nator from Saint Mary's. Shari has had her hands full these past few months,  e most," says Christian Nafziger, Ireland Program 95-96. "It will be nice to see her, and good to mingle with students from past years."  p.m in Carroll Auditorium, where programmers can dance, sing and make merry. The ambiance in Carroll promises to rival that of the Student's Union, Maynooth 's answer to the Senior Bar. After the Ceili, Mass will be held in Regina Chapel, followed by a din-. ner banquet in the lower level of the dining hall at 6:30 p.m. After din­ner, participants can settle down with a drink and listen to Irish music at Dalloway's Coffee House. Overdorf cautions, however, that like life in the  I  

for aside from the anniversary's planning she has also The celebration began yesterday with a faculty tea Emerald Isle, one must approach the weekend's plansbeen screening the applicants for next year's pro­in Stapleton Lounge, introducing Peg to the faculty of with an open mind and an easy-going attitude. "As in gram. Though the numbers differ from year to year, Saint Mary's. Later in the evening, Peg and the pro­the fashion of the Irish tradition," she adds, "all partsShari expects to send 20 students to Ireland in the grammers met at the Mishawaka Brewery to share a of the schedule are subject to change." If ever there 
upcoming academic year, though the final count has pint together. However, it has been said that the beer was an audience that could understand and heed not been finalized back here in the United States does not even approach those words, Saint Mary's will see them this weekend. 
r--------------------------------------------------~.--------------~-------~-------------.-~------------~-----------------. 
page 16 
-
•MlB 
Auociated Pren 
HOUSTON 
After going hitless for 6 ~f3.<;::t:H)))rk;;)faru<J~~$.innings against Darryl Kile; looked as if Atlanta w drop to Q.;~Jthis seastni; 
Then Fred McGriff homered, and the Braves finally got go-t··(·•;(·t;hrl~e :innin~r~ ing, rallying to beat the base Houston Astros 3-2 Thursday ..· LoftQn night for their first win. fourth. Kile 
McGriff's homer broke• up 'T~~rai~ht "b!:) P·n~~~·.., Kih~'s rio-hit bid. in tM Glavine with seventh and Jeff Blauser and sixth. Keith Lockhart each hit sacri-..•.,.,... Houston took ~ 2•QJead in fice flies for the Braves, who the fifth inning on James will open new Turner Field in Mouton's sacrifice fly and Atlanta on Friday night Derek Bell's RBfsingle. against the Cubs. ?~\. Kile, whopitched a no-hitter Dodgers 2, Pliillies 1 in 1993, fooled the Braves with a nasty curve ball , LOS ANGELES through the first six innings Mike Piazza homered and and was bidding with what Todd Hollandsworth hit an would have been the earliest RBI double in the sixth inning no-hitter by date. Thursday nightt(.),backismael But McGriff ended an)! ~aldes. and lead the Los 
thoughts ofthat by hitting a 2-,1-ngeles Dodgers to a g..l ~in 1 fastball .{}ver.the l~ft"field I~pverthEl P~.iJ~de]ph:ia J>hlllies. fence to bring Atlanta within . Piazza openedthe sj"xth with 
Z-}he Brave~ then scored nto ~~ll~~J~~ift~,,~~.ihtJd iri~:h~ more runs in the eighth. go-ahead · 
Javier Lopez·walkedtoopen Leiter'*' the inning and was replaced V by pincn:runner R!).lp 
Belliard. Mark Lemke fol­
lowed wit~.a d?l1ble befo;r~Blaus€r and pineli~ hitter···· Lockhart delivered their sacri­
fice flies. . 3f:f1~p:::::::====·=·· Tom Gla~e aliowed..~ix hits in seven.il'lliitl.g$. for the \Vi.9hlt'\ · 
The left-hand.er walked three''"'' and didn't record a strikeout. but accomplished what Cy Young win,ner John Smoltz and Greg Maddux couldn't do 
tliis week ....., beat the Astros. ·· · 
"Mark W<>hlers strp_ck o~t three in the final 1·1-3 innings for the saveJts tlie Braves won 
Classifieds 
The Observer • SPORTS Friday, April 4, 1997 
Tigers are still without roar 
Associated Press here." off Dave Stevens while playing 
Pat Meares, who hit a game­for Toronto. 
MINNEAPOLIS winning two-run homer on "It's not something that I 
Career hit No. 3,019 was like Tuesday and scored the win­have done very frequently,"almost none that had come ning run Wednesday, added a Molitor said. "Maybe it's the before for Paul Molitor. It also two-run double for Minnesota, (Hale-Bopp) comet. I don't helped make career ·appear­off to its best start since the know what to attribute it to." ance No. 1 memorable for Todd 1987 team opened 4-0. Tony Clark, who had two 
Ritchie. Dan Naulty got the final out RBis in each of the first two 
Molitor hit his third career for the save. games, made it 7-5 with a two­grand slam and Matt Lawton Tigers starter Willie Blair was run homer in the third, a 412­added a three-run homer in a the loser, allowing seven runs foot shot to right with two outs. seven-run second inning as the in 1 2-3 innings. It was Blair's Meares' two-run double made Minnesota Twins beat Detroit first start since Sept. 30, 1995, it 9-5 in the bottom half, and 10-6 Thursday night for a sea­for San Diego against the Johnson's RBI double off 
son-opening three-game sweep. Dodgers, and his first AL start Ritchie got the Tigers to 9-6 in 
The homers helped Ritchie since Sept. 9, 1991, for the fourth. The Twins added an get the victory in his first major Cleveland against Boston. unearned run in the sixth when league game. It was the 22nd loss in the left-fielder Bobby Higginson
"It's good to be part of some­last 24 games for the Tigers misplayed Lawton's line drive 
thing like that," said Ritchie, dating to the end of last season, for a two-base error that who was out of options but sur­and pitching was the main cul­allowed Greg Myers to score. prised the Twins with an excel­prit again. Detroit allowed eight lent spring. "They'll remember walks, and 19 in 24 1-3 innings Angels 2, Red Sox 0 
him getting that grand slam, during the series. and I pitched in that game. It's "It's really hard to find any­Rookie Jason Dickson pitchedgood. I like that." thing positive," said A.J. Sager, a five-hitter for his first major
With parents Bennett and who worked 3 1-3 scoreless, league shutout and Garret Betty watching from behind walkless innings during the Anderson drove in the go­home plate, Ritchie replaced series. "With the way we ended ahead run Thursday night to starter Scott Aldred to start the last season, we really wanted to give the Anaheim Angels a 2-0 fourth with Minnesota leading come out and get some wins. win over the Boston Hed Sox. 9-5. He allowed a single on his During spring training we made Dickson, who came to springfirst pitch and an RBI double on improvements, we acquired training hoping to be the fifth in 
his second pitch, but he allowed new players, so this isn't what the Angels' rotation, became only one more hit over the next we wanted." the club's No. 2 starter after a three innings. Detroit took a 3-0 lead in the spring training injury to ace "I was real nervous after the second on an HBI single by Chuck Finley. 
two leadoff hits," Ritchie said. Melvin Nieves, a passed ball by The right-hander, making his "I didn't let it get to me, but it Aldred and a groundout by eighth career start, limited the wasn't what I pictured. But I Brian Johnson. But the Twins Red Sox to five singles, struck stayed calm and tried to keep jumped on Blair in the bottom out live and didn't walk a bat­throwing strikes." half. ter. !lis first career complete
Ritchie was the Twins' first­Lawton tied it with a 441-foot game came one night after round draft pick in 1990, the drive on the first pitch he saw. California's bullpen blew a 5-2 12th pick overall. lie was Minnesota then loaded the lead in the ninth inning. slowed by back pain in 1991 bases with a double by Todd Reggie Jefferson and Nornar and shoulder soreness in 1993 Walker, a fielder's choice Garciaparra had two hits before missing all of 1994 with grounder by Chuck Knoblauch apiece for the Red Sox. a shoulder injury. But he had a and a walk to Hich Becker Dickson also got some defen­
1.98 ERA in 10 exhibition before Molitor lined Blair's last sive help from shortstop Gary appearances to earn a spot on pitch of the night into the left­DiSarcina, who turned· a pair of the 12-man staff. center field stands. inning-ending double plays and "He didn't make the club It was Molitor's 3,019th robbed Bill Haselman of a hit in because he's out of options," career hit and his first grand the sixth by smothering a Molitor said. "He made the club slam since July 5, 1994, when grounder toward the hole and 
because he deserved to be he connected at the Metrodome throwing him out. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
I NEED a girl to deliver newspapers  Cruise Lines Hiring · Earn to  Moving Off Campus?  EX NO STAFFER AND SPOUSE  
NOTICES  on South Quad. Less than 1 hour per day. Bonus for first week plus  $2,000+/mo. plus free world travel (Europe,  ·Beds, Table, Desk,etc. VERY CHEAP  PERSONAL  (RETIRED) WISH TO RENT APT. FOR SUMMER.  
free paper. Call Mike xt186  Caribbean. etc.). No exp. neces­ call 273·97 4 7  NON-SMOKERS, NON·  
THE COPY SHOP  sary. (919)918-7767, ext.C154.  DRINKERS, NO PETS, REFER·  
LaFortune Student Center  SUMMER EMPLOYMENT:  Two ten speed bikes  FAX IT FAST!!!  ENCES. WRITE 135  
Phone 631-COPY  ART EDUCATION ASSISTANT  National Parks Hiring · Plus Forest,  35 ea 288· 7502  Sending & Receiving  LAKEVIEW, MULBERRY FL 33860  
Mon.: 7:30a.m. ·Midnight  SNITE ART MUSEUM.  Beach Resorts, Ranches, Rafting  at  OR PHONE (941 )425·4404 ANY­ 
,.._  Tues.: 7:30a.m. ·Midnight Wed.: 7:30a.m. ·Midnight  Assist Education Curator with sum· mer youth art program focusing on  Companies. Nationwide openings. Call (919)918·7767, ext.R154.  GRAD SALE  THE COPY SHOP LaFortune Student Center  TIME.  
Thur.: 7:30a.m. ·Midnight  museum objects and related hands·  84 Red Ford Tempo  Our Fax# (219) 631-FAXI  OPEN ADOPTION  
Fri.: 7:30 a.m. • 7:00 p.m. Sat.: Noon· 6:00p.m.  on activities. JUNE 2ND TO AUGUST tST, 10  FOR RENT  Runs/looks really good: $800 Boom box w/ two 1 0" and two 12"  FAX IT FAST!!!  continuing contact with your child. visits,photographs,more.  
Sun.: Noon • Midnight  hours per week.  speakers: $100  Tom & Tammy, South Bend.  
Open Early, Late, & Weekends  Fine Arts Major with exp. teaching  Near Campus  19" TV: $30  BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY  1-800-484-1607code:9883  
ILOST & FOUND I  and/or working with children pre­!erred. (JUNE 23 TO AUG. 1ST, additional  Homes for 97-98 232·2595  Call4-1473 ASAP  219·291·7153  Hi Court, I hope you are haveing a great day, call you tonight.  
Work Study hours-if eligible-with  College Park Sublet  Oldsmobile Cutlass 4 dr 1981· only  FREE BECK TICKETS  
LOST: String of pearls and a cross  National Youth Sports Program to  60,000 mi. · new motor-body in  for anyone who can help load-in for  Hey, You, come see SHOOTING  
between Hesburgh Library and the  make a total of 40 hours per week if  for June and July '97. 3·4 People  good cond. Call 273·9111  BECK from It am til 6 pm on Tues.  CUPID.  
Basilica of the Sacred Heart. Call  desired, PLUS room and board  2BR, 2 Bath, Washer, Dryer in Apt.  4/8 at Stepan. call Ashleigh at SUB  You'll like it. Everybody's doing it.  
Dolores at 1·5729 or 234· 7287.  included June 23 to Aug. tst).  Call 273-3054  FREE Phone Card. No restrictions,  at 1·7757.  Basement of Keenan Hall, Saturday  
CALL education curator Sherrie  Nothing to join, Nothing to lose .•. 19  Night (Tomorrow), It:30 p.m.  
Gauley,  min. in  We play the songs that make you  
Lost: Gold Claddagh Ring  631-4435, ASAP.  College Park Apartment 2/2  the  shake your ...  
Reward! Call Dee at 232·5474.  Available June 1 for '97·'98 school  U.S. SASE to : Free Phone Card,  HISPANIC STUDENT RETREAT!!  
ALASKA SUMMER EMPLOYMENT  year  PO Box 1041, Logansport, IN  Friday, April II. Join your ND/SMC  It's an egg, grantede a hard boiled  
• Fishing Industry.  Call271·5601  46947  family in an experiencia religiosa.  egg. And what is an egg?  
LOST: Brown leather portfolio with  Learn how students can earn up to  Open to Notre Dame and Saint  
my name written in gold on the  $2,850/mo + benefits (room &  Lease our College Park Apt. for the  DO YOU NEED HELP SURVIVING  Mary's students, sponsored by  one word: hattie; second word:"  
cover.  board).  Summer! Call X4620 for info.  THESE NO WINTERS? LLBean  Campus Ministry. Call Fr. Pat Neary  egg; put the two together; ok well  
Extremely important information  Call Alaska Information Services:  Thanks!  down coat for  at 631·7712 for more info.  nothing but. ..  
inside. I really need it!  206-971-3514, xA55841.  sale· great cond., men's S· this is  
Please call Tara at 4·1291  New 5 bedroom home, two bath,  the warmest coat you can find! will  $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$  LONDON, LONDON, LONDON, ...  
two car garage. Central air, dish·  keep  HA!!!  
WANTED  Paid Record Label Internship: Red Ant seeks marketing reps in South  washer, disposal, fridge/icemaker,  you warm on those walks to & from 02, 06, Ct· great deal for $125!  SOPHOMORE ACCOUNTING MAJORS  Bon-Bon,  
Bend  washer/dryer included.  call Wendy @ 243 9430  T minus 14 days and counting.  
SUMMER JOBS  who love alt./rock music. 1 0­ $1500/12 mo. lease. Call232·4527  Want the best job on campus?  Wjhat will you be doing on "D" day?  
ALL LAND/WATER SPORTS  20hrs/wk, working w/record stores,  or 683-5038.  '89 Do'dge Caravan, Rebuilt Engine,  
PRESTIGE CHIDREN'S CAMPS  lifestyle  V.G Condition. $1700  Stop by Morrissey Loan Fund  Shmeg,  
ADIRONDACK MOUNTAINS NEAR LAKE PLACID  stores, colleges, artists. Call Rob Ossorio Toll Free 1-888-RED­ FOR SALE  o/b/o. '83 Honda Civic. Good Cond. $500  across from the Lafortune Info Desk b/w 11 :30-12:30 M·F or  The Zahm wierdos want to come pick up your underwear. Oh wail,  
1·800· 786·8373  ANTS.  o/b/o.  ca114-1188 or 1-6616 for ?'s  maybe Melissa took them home  
1986 Acura Integra  Call Jihad 277·3254.  (Only MALES need apply)  after leaving Zahm last night. Get a  
CRUISE & LAND TOUR EMPLOY­ 5 sp, A/C, cass.. sunroof. Good  clue. Don't be Sud. JK is always  
MENT · Discover how workers can earn up to $2,000+/mo. on Cruise  Alaska Employment -Earn up to $3,000-$6,000+/mo. in fisheries,  shape.$1900 273·5930  TICKETS  ADOPTION: A Loving Choice. Caring family wishes to share love,  there with a hug or you. M, E,J, M  
Ships or up to $5,000-$7,000/sum­ parks,  IBMPS/1  laughter, dreams with newborn.  
mer in the Land Tour industry! Call  resorts. Airfare! Food/Lodging! Get  486/modem/software  NEED NO GRAD. TIX. $$  Please  The classilieds are the worst part of  
Cruise Information Services: 800·  all the options. Call  $500 or best offer  PLEASE CALL 272-3753 AFTER 5  call Barbara  the paper.  
276·5407 Ext. C55846  (919)918-7767, ext. At 54.  Call273-9747  PM. OR LV. MESSAGE ANYTIME.  1-800-753· 7755.  




Comrnunh:m'~ Out, Ca~itafi~tn' ~ ln. ~o Now What? 
CAPITALISM I 0 I: 
Russi8/·S · :::":· .r..:.r~.H:·;:;~v0~{;:5:t!: 1 
OHAii'IJIJirhiii;
.. ···~··.·: .·: :.•.:···,,., ...tl.::·?·•::···· ····, ;·· '·"· ...;;-:.~:.'.· .. 1{'~-<::· 
Saturday, April5;·coBAAtrium Registration: 12:30-1:30 
EREBENTATIONS: 1:30-4:00 
'John Pistole Federal Bureau ofInvestigation Penny ']oley Trust Cotnpany ofthe west 
--~arshall t;joldman Davis Center for Russian Studies, Harvard u. 
Discussions will follow. Refreshments will be served. Presented by the NDCIBD in honor of Dean Keane 
Friday, April 4, 1997 The Observer • SPORTS 
•MlB 
Marlins jump out of gates with a three game sweep of the Cubbies 
Associated Press 
MIAMI 
Alex Fernandez made a victo­rious debut for his hometown team and Jeff Conine hit a first­inning grand slam as the Florida Marlins beat the Chicago Cubs 8-2 Thursday night for a season-opening three-game sweep 
The Cubs' woes were com­pounded when Mark Grace limped out of the game in the sixth inning with a strained right hamstring. Grace, who pulled up running ~ut a triple, was off to a 5-for-10 start. 
Fernandez allowed one run 
and live hits in 6 2-3 innings, 
retiring 13 in a row at one 
point. The Miami native signed 
a $35 million, live-year contract 
in December after seven sea­
sons with the Chicago White 
Sox. 
Florida officials had hoped for a sellout with the local hero pitching, but the crowd of 
32.592 was nearly 10,000 below capacity. Fans gave Fernandez a standing ovation when he left in the seventh. 
The Marlins are off to the 
fastest start in their five-year 
history and are three games 
above .500 for the first time 
since May 20, 1994. 
The three-game sweep was 
Florida's first against the Cubs, 
who managed just 15 hits in the 
series and were outscored 16-7. 
Moises Alou, who went 3-for­4, singled home Florida's first run in the lirst inning following walks to Edgar Renteria and Gary Sheffield. Devon White reached on an infield single, and Conine followed with the third grand slam of his career for a 5-0 lead against loser Frank Castillo. 
Chicago scored in the second on Shawon Dunston's single, a double by Kevin Orie and a groundout. Orie missed a homer by a foot on his drive, which hit 18 feet high on the scoreboard. 
The inning ended with Florida second baseman Luis Castillo robbing the Cubs of a run. He threw out Frank Castillo from the grass behind second base on a grounder, stranding Orie at third. 
Sheflield made three difficult catches in right field. 
Florida added three runs in 
the eighth against Mel Rojas, 
making his Cubs debut. After 
Rojas loaded the bases, 
Sheffield was hit by a pitch, 
Bobby Bonilla walked and Alou 
drove in a run with a ground­
out. 
Frank Castillo, whose 16 loss­
es last year tied for the most in 
the -NL, allowed five runs and 
eight hits in 4 1-3 innings. 
Giants 7, Pirates 5 
SAN FRANCISCO 
It took one of the newest 
Giants to finally subdue the 
pesky Pittsburgh Pirates. 
Jeff Kent matched a career­
high with five RBis in his sec­
ond game in San Francisco as 
the Giants withstood Mark 
Johnson's first career grand 
slam to beat the Pirates 7-5 
Thursday night. 
Kent. who came to San Francisco from Cleveland dur­ing the offseason as part of the Matt Williams' trade, hit a two­run homer, a two-run double and added a sacrifice fly. 
The effort helped San Francisco snap an eight-game home losing streak to Pittsburgh, which included a 5­2 defeat in Tuesday's season­opener. 
"These guys, they play us tough. We finally beat them," San Francisco manager Dusty Baker said. 
Kent wasn't aware of the streak until his wife told him about after the season-opening loss. 
"I told her, 'You've got to be kidding me.' It was kind of a surprise. I thought we'd better win this time," Kent said. 
Osvaldo Fernandez went five 
innings, allowing six hits, 
including Johnson's slam, to 
pick up the victory. Baker used 
three relievers in the ninth with 
Rod Beck getting the final out 
for his first save. 

"We came back but just couldn't get the big hit in the end. Give the Giants credit for jumping on us early," Pittsburgh manager Gene Lamont said. 
Fernandez breezed through 
four scoreless innings but got 
into trouble in the fifth as a sin­
gle by Joe Randa, a walk to 
Tony Womack and a single by 
Jermaine Allensowrth loaded 
the bases with two outs. 
Johnson hadn't homered in 
153 previous at-bats dating to 
Sept. 4. 
page 17 

.-.--e has 
__ ,_Bulls 

w~~-hington eight -straight times since January ..·1_995.... :-:'JV'''t-···T~"'-4'• , Strickland, playing with a 
sprained left. ankle, went 42 minutes andsank 10 of 15 shots. !Ie also had seven re­
;1, bgunds; ·· · \B'ii;; · The Bullets trailed 86-81 before Strickland and Calbert CHeaney scored four points each in a 12-4 run that put washington ahead 93-90. Pippen hit a3~pointer to tie it, ~llt two baskets by Strickland sandwiched ~round a pair of fc)ul shots by.Juwan Howard made if99-93 with 4:05 left. ··Aftera··Chicag(") timeout, Pippen sank a 3-pointer and hit,a 16-footer to BitliS to 99~98. The then got ·a driving Strickland .and three 
· by Gheorghe llf.l~tre~>an. mr a 104~98 lead. ,,,.,n.;·;;,·,., finished with 24 11 of 16 shots, 
.... 
... I j 
' 
I 
"'I 

.~ 

page 18 The Observer • SPORTS Friday, April 4, 1997
,_ 
• JOCK STRIP 
Hey Irish fans: Wake up! Women got game too 

A
nswer these questions before reading on: 
1. 
Name the five starters on the women's basketball team. 

2. 
Name eight of the 11 


starters on the woman's soccer team. ;:::::::;:::::::;::;:::::;
3. Name the Big East conference Volleyball Player of the Year. 
Most of you probably
answered......,......__,_____...._... ...... number one Gene Brtalik right with SportsWriter 
the recent success of the team. But, as for numbers two and three, if you got those right then either you are a big-time soccer and/or volleyball fan or your girlfriend is on the team. 
The guys reading this right now are probably saying, "Who gives a $#!@? I only care about the football and men's basket­ball team, and could care less about the women's programs." 
This attitude is also shown in attendance. The women's bas­ketball team only averaged slightly above 1,700 fans this year (only 500 more than the students who became instant men's fans when they were in the NIT, but we'll address that issue in a future column). 
Our own sports staff is also at fault; recently the women's swimming team sent three members to Indianapolis for the NCAA championships, one of which was freshman swim­mer Shannon Suddarth. Throughout the year, Shannon had established herself as one of the top breaststrokers in the Big East, even setting a new Notre Dame record at the Big East championships. But, when the story was finally printed it said Shannon com­peted in the backstroke. 
AShort Time Ago, The Question Was Posed: Who Loves Your Papa...MOST? 
.. 

The Official winners of the HPC/Papa John's campus contest are: 
Dillon &: P.E. 

Both Dorms will receive free pizza for their next dance, plus 500 bucks to do whatever they see fit. 
Your Papa would like to thank all of the dorms for their participation, and to remind everyone that anytime is time to call your Papa! 
Hours: 
Mon thru Thurs: Open 
11 a.m.-1 a.m. 
everyday
Fri thru Sat: 11 a.m.-3 a.m for Sunday: 
lunch!
12 p.m.-1a.m. 
Well, it is time to wake up! The women's programs have enabled us to ranked sixth overall in the Sears Director's Cup, a program which rates schools on overall athletic achievement. 
All in all, there are 10 sports in which NO competes in both women's and men's athletics. Up to now, the women have done better or equaled the men in four of seven events. 
A reason given for the lack of interest in women's athletics is that the women's games are not exciting. Let's examine three sports which are consid­ered exciting to watch: soccer, basketball, and lacrosse. 
This year for the third straight year, the women's soc­cer team made it to the NCAA championship game. Meanwhile, the men's team exceeded all expectations, won the Big East and made it to the sweet sixteen of the tourna­ment. 
Overall the men scored 33 goals and had 32 assists for the year. That total is only seven goals more than All-American senior Cindy Daws scored the 

Party I:OO p.m. 
CHECK IT OUT! 
Always open 'til 3AM 
M·F open at 3pm, Sat open at noon 
whole year, while junior Holly Manthei assisted on 44 of the team's 140 goals (four times as many as the men). On defense the men gave up one more goal in fewer games than the women (18-17). If watching a team that scores nearly six goals per game while allowing less than one doesn't excite you, you might as well stand outside Notre Dame stadium and watch them build it. 
Next is basketball. For the first time in five years, both teams finished above .500, but no one saw a women's team that was consistently ranked throughout the year. The women would routinely pour in 75 points while allowing only 
63. On the other hand, the men averaged 71 with other team's scoring 70 per game. 
This year, due to Title IX, a new sport has joined the NO athletic program: women's lacrosse. One result of the birth of this new sport is more schol­arships given to the women. "I can't believe that they get scholarships," remarked one lacrosse player, "I bet they don't win a game for the first 
Pool Tournament 
three years." 

Well, he was wrong. The women have attained a 5-2 record and are on their way to finish the season with a win­ning record, something Lou didn't have in his first year here. The women arc averag­ing 15 goals a game to the men's 12. In fact, the women have the most potent offense in the country. 
The women's games have been cakewalks while the men's games pose to be tight and hard fought with power­houses like Hobart, and today's contest against fourth-ranked Hofstra. Goals are the most exciting things in all of sports, and when they come a plenty and frequently, fans have to make the right choice -which is watching the women play. 
This editorial is not meant to be taken like I am a feminist. It also not being written so a Battle of the Sexes competition will begin between opposite sex athletic programs. It is being to written to point out the fact that the students need to give attention to the women's pro­grams, and that the women's programs help make the school an athletic powerhouse, as well as an intellectual institution. 
The intriguing Battle of the 
· Sexes match-up would have to be in basketball. At guard White and Augustin cancel each other out with their team leading turnover-to-assist ratio. Meanwhile, Peirick and McMillen's shooting equals that of Miller. 
In the center position, Gaither battles with the three­headed monster (Gotsch, Hickey, & Young) and comes away with a tie. 
The forward position is where the monotony stops.­Morgan's sflooting touch is too much for Manner and his missed lay-ups. Garrity destroys Bohman on the other post. 
It all comes down to whether Dillon's lethal cross-over drib­ble is too much to handle for Kristina Ervin (a volleyball player), and/or Christy Grady (the team's manager). 
To be settled on a court soon -but for now just go out and enjoy the women's games and show some respect. 
Friday, April 4, 1997 The Observer • SPORTS 
8-Ball 
continued from page 28 
as expected. The Irish explod­ed for 9 runs in a three-inning stretch to go up 11-4. 
The bashing blitzkrieg includ­ed a home run by Amrhein, who had hit in 25 of 26 games, another long-distance smack by Jeff Wagner, and three triples. Notre Dame leads the Big East in triples with 19. 
Ironically, the injury-pep­pered Scholl banged up his shoulder on one of the three­bag snags. 
"The guy was on the left side 
of the base and I tried to slide 
around him." the first baseman 
recalled. "I kind of fell on it the 
wrong way." 
It was the second time Scholl has dislocated his left shoulder, and he is expected to heal in a week. 
The night-capper started nearly perfectly for Notre Dame. Freshman starter Tim Kalita started and startled onlookers by zipping pitch after pitch past his enemies. 
Suddenly, after two innings, Kalita had struck out five of the first six batters he faced. Kalita's victims were doused graciously with "Another One Bites the Dust," courtesy of the Notre Dame press box. 
But a sixth inning, one-out, two-run triple throttled the youngster, and he soon was replaced with fellow freshman Scott Cavey. Cavey himself put on a brief show. recording two strike-outs in 1.2 innings. 
Down 2-0, the Irish offense 
ignited -for a moment. A 
Come Cheer on the ~{!~ Fighting Irish ~ inthe 

Jist Annual ND Crew Classic 
Saturday, April 5th Margaret Prickett Park 8am-1pm 
•Take 
Eddy south to Jefferson Rd 

•Make 
a right on Jefferson 

•Approximately 
5 miles down Jefferson will be Capital Street 

•Continue 
past Capital approximately 3/4 mile. 

•The 
park will be on your right. 

•Parking 
is in Margaret Prickett Park 

•If 
you come to Bittersweet and Jefferson, you've missed it! 


Free ether samples to the first 100 fans! 
~==~==============~======[)~[)~~~~======================~~  ~  Opennoontosix  
Tuesday through Sunday  
The cl{])lt'lCeJ11batil{])n. in [)[ll.i[l{])§l{])]p>hy 9  Pl{])htics, ,(!lllll.J ~CI{])llll.l{])ffiics  5804Grape Rd. •Indian Ridge Plaza 277 7946 - 1027 E. Wayne South Bend, IN 46617  

The Concentration in Philosop_ hy, Politics, and Economics llr..,=.""='~'·=&'""'="="'J"=''"'"='ma=y""'=~··=-=rillh=tl99S=Chtcalj,.;;•;;.;"".,;;;-;;;eo;;,.~==(=21=9=)=2~3~2=-8=4=4~4~7. 
two-out single by Wagner ham­mered home Randall Brooks, who had taken a free pass ear­lier. 
The last inning was one of torture for Notre Dame. Allen Green walked on four pitches. Dan Leatherman aired out a bunt down the right side and beat the throw to first. Next, on a 3-2 count, Perconte was caught looking on a pitch that appeared to be high. 
Coach Mainieri bolted from 
the dugout and excoriated the 
umpire for the call; rowdy fans 
began yelling and taunting in 
disapproval. And so the tone 
was set for the brief conclusion. 
J.J. Brock, who went 3-for-3 in game one, flied to center, and Pat O'Keefe was caught looking to end the game, a fit­ting description of the.Jrish sea­son thus far. 
SUMMER HELP WANTED 
Job Coach 
MaJVville Academy-City of Youth, Illinois' largest private Residential Child-Care facility has part-time posi­tions available. We are seeking ma­ture. energetic individuals who have or want experience working with trou­bled children. 
In this role, you will function as a mentor and counselor for the children EMPLOYMENT IN AMERICA'S throughout the summer In both work and recreational activities. supervising NATIONAL PARKS 
Find out how to begin your job search
children in their job settings. Afternoon 
in National Par1<s, Fo!¥15, and Wildlife hours, 20-25 hours per week. Interns Preserves. 
Learn from the 111 Source that 

and college students welcome to uncovers hundreds of employment opportunities in the great outdoors.
apply. Interested candidates must be 
at least 21 years of age and possess a • Seasonal & Year-Round 
• Excel'ent Benefits 
valid drivers license. 

For further information. call Monday­
Friday, 9am-9pm: 

MARWILLE ACADEMY 
CllY OF YOUTH 
1150 N. River Rd. 
Des Plaines, IL 600 16 
• Used books bought and sold
Ph: 847/294-1978 
STRONG • FAST • CLEAN •25 categories ot Books Equal Opportunity Employer m/f/d/V WOLFF BEDS ·~5~~~~ Hardback and Paperback books 
'·-lliiiiit•• • •Out-of:Print Search Service: $2.00 ~mCAGO RAm & TANsn .•Appra•sals large and small 
(Ph'PE) is designed for undergrai:luates with special interests in t e intersecting areas ofpolitical p/Jilosophy, political theory, and economic a nab, sis. Man11 o+our students 0uo on to careers in law, public policy, ~r the aca~ei'ny. 
PPE has three main attractions: 
(
1) PPE integrates different approaches to politics and justice in a way not usually possible merely with a second major (and also requires many fewer courses than a second major); 

(2) 
PPE students interact closely with faculty members, both in courses and in advising and conversation (the student/facudy ratio in PPE's seminars and colloquia is about 10:1); 

(3) 
PPE students develop an intellectual community among themselves, especially through the Justice Seminar, PPE's intensive gateway course. • 


Every year about twenty highly motivated and talented students are admitted to PPE; check it out to see if it is for you. You can contact one of PPE's student con­
sultants for the insider view:  - 
Karla Arenas  4-4285  Arenas.l @nd.edu  
Michael Williams  288-0116  Williams.! 08@nd.edu  
Cristina Coronado  243-9172  Coronado. I @nd.edu  

You can also contact Professor David O'Connor at O'Connor.2@nd.edu, or Professor John Roos at Roos.1 @nd.edu. 
APPLICATIONS and further information are available outside Professor O'Connor's office, 307 Decio. The application deadline is April 9. You may also apply electronically. Simply send Professor O'Connor an e-mail message, subject "PPE application," with the following information: name, address, telephone, e­mail, year you are in now, expected major, courses you have taken in philosophy, government, and economics, your GPA, and a statement of no more than 300 words of why you are interested in PPE and why PPE should be interested in you. Acceptances will be announced April 10. 
,..~··\ /,..sj··~ ........ .....-C,v~ \ L 0 °L~D.... , <,...so/0;0"---~ _• .,~--_.. ,.,_-' ~·u. ';.'....'!.._'f'.... ,l 

~ I 
.... 
--~------------­
page 20 The Observer • SPORTS Friday, April 4, 1997 
• SOFTBALL 
Irish ready for home cooking after being swept 
By ALLISON KRILLA 
Sports Writer 
A streaking Irish softball team strolled into West Lafayette, Ind., only to be steamrolled by the Purdue Boilermakers in a doublehead­er yesterday afternoon. 
"Today we left a lot of baserunners on," said Meghan Murray. "We hit the ball well until we had a few runners on base, and then our bats were silenced." 
In the first game, the Boilermakers jumped out to an early 2-0 lead until the Irish got on the board with one run in the fourth inning. Behind the pitching of Jenny Deno and Sheryl Scheve, Purdue made the early lead stand up for a 4­2 victory. 
Angela Bessolo took the loss, giving up five hits and two runs in two innings before Joy Battersby came on in relief, pitching four innings and giving up three hits and two runs. 
"Purdue is a really aggressive team," said Murray. "If (our pitchers) got behind (in the count), they were going to come out swinging. The timeliness of their hits made the· difference." 
Despite two Purdue errors, the Irish fell 3-0 to the Boilermakers, being shutout for the sixth time this spring drop-
CINEMA AT THE SNITE 
presented by Notre Dame Communication and Theatre 
631-7361 

FRIDAY AND SATURDAY APRIL¥ AND 5TH 7:15 and 9:45 p.m. 
next weekend: THE CRUCIBLE http://www.nd.edu/-cothweb/wwwsnite.html 
Michiana Outpatient Procedures 
Colin Elliot, M.D. 
Specializing in the following: 
• 
RADIO-FREQUENCY REMOVAL OF SKIN LESIONS (No Scalpel-No Scar) 

• Multi-Test Allergy Testing 

•SNORE 
NO MORE Intra-Nasal Passage Reduction 


No Scalpel No Pain No More Snoring 
•Tattoo & Birthmark Removal 
• 
Hemorrhoid Treatment 

•Spider 
Vein-Varicose Vein 

• 
Carpal Tunnel Injection 

• Skin Diseases 

• 
Female Pattern Baldness 


•Heal Pain 
(219) 243-1172 Appointments Recommended 
53830 Generations Drive (Corner of Douglas & IN 23) 23 Medical Plaza South Bend, IN 46635 
Hours: Mon. thru Sat. 9-5 • Closed Thurs. 
ping mark to 16-14. Kelly Nichols allowing three runs on seven hits suffering her third loss of the season. 
Meghan Murray led the team at the plate again, going 2-3 in a losing effort. Today the Irish play host to Big East rival Boston College in their 1997 home opener. Murray empha­sized the team's positive out­look toward these games. 
"We're pretty excited to l'inally open the season at our home field," said Murray. 
Irish are 6-2 in home-opening games and they have an all­time record of 105-35-2 in Ivy Field's friendly confines. 
Boston College brings a 13-3 record into today's match-up, and boasts two-time Big East pitcher of the week Mary Dietz. 
"We know that (Boston College) is stronger than they were last year," said Murray. "We have to focus on doing whatevr.r it takfls to win.." 
On Sunday, the Irish host an­other cross division Big East ri­val, when the Providence Lady Friars come to town for a dou­bleheader at 11 a.m. In 1996, the Irish defeated the Lady Friars three times, including a 3-2 thriller in the Big East Conference championships. 
With four Big East games on the line, the Irish hope to come out swinging. putting on an im­pressive show for the homr.­town crowd. 
[We've got what it takes to get that reaction.) 

MifDibi:OLAY· 
All product shown at everyday low price. 
STORE HOURS: MON·THURS: lOAM-9:30PM; FRI-SAT: 10AM-10PM; SUN: 11AM·6PM 
Wilshire Plaza, Mishawaka, 271-0696 
81·8235·047 


Friday, April 4, 1997 
W.Lax 
continued from page 28 
Pittsburgh to play Duquesne and Davidson. On Saturday, Notre Dame beat Duquense 15­
4. Balanced scoring from the Irish offense was the key as seven different players cashed in goals in the first half. 
The Irish were paced by the three goals of Cara Buchanan and two assists from Tara Pierce as they led 11-2 at inter­mission. Kerry Callahan sparked the team in the second half with two assists in the first eight minutes of play. The de­fense also contributed to the domination over Duquense as goalies Catherine Simmons and Beth Murray combined for six saves. 

Even though the defense has been impressive, the high-pow­ered Irish offense has been the story of the season. 
Who would have thought that after the game against Duquense, the Notre Dame women's lacrosse team would lead the nation in scoring? 
But this was indeed the case, and it was certainly no a small feat for a team in its first year of competition. 
Last Monday, Notre Dame completed its Pittsburgh ex-
The Observer • SPORTS 
cursion against Davidson. Cara Buchanan again led the Irish with three goals in the first half, but she was the lone bright spot for Notre Dame offense. Davidson stymied the highest scoring team in the nation and went on to win 21-8. 
"We were not mentally pre­pared to play Davidson. We came out flat. The reason we lost was that our shot place­ment was off, which we feel will be corrected in the Ohio State game," said captain Tara Pierce. 
Poised and prepared, the women's lacrosse team is ready for the fast-paced Buckeyes. 

page 21 
Casting and Angling Clinic -Clinic includes three ses­sions which meet on April 8, 15 & 17 from 6-7:15 p.m. Classes are held in the Joyce outside the walL Center, Rolfs and campus lakes. Equipment is provided, Adv~nced scuba but participants are encour­R(:)cSports will be sponsoring aged to bring their own. The Advanced Scuba Classes. All fee is $8 for the class and is particiPttllts ~ust Be e~rtified op~n to students, staff and divers. For more irifo., call 1~ faculty. Advance registration6100. . the RecSports office is re­
quired. 
Weekend . Racquetbal~ Tournament . This tourna,o Special Olympics . ­ment will be on April 12 and Volunteers are needed to help 13; Tl:l~re Will be men's and Special Olympic swimmers. women's'''divisions with a t'-' Practices are at Rolfs Aquatic 
s}Urtbeln:$' a\Varded to all par" Center on Mondays and ti~iparits,> Bring your own rae" Wednesdays . .from 4:30 -5:30 quet, but racquetballs will be p.m. For more info call Coach 
nn,nnm. refi:esh:Inentf Dennis Stark at 1-5983 . . must reg~ the " RecSports will be hiring 
10} "'two full-time one part-time 
• and numerous substitutes to lifeguard at the. St. Joseph Lake Beach this summer. .... ••.,.,·,...•••,.... Pl~a,se contact Greg at 1~51 00 ··· or come to RecSports office at tile Joyce Ce11ter to fill out 
,. application...: 
Club -A uutuJ<UJ;; club is coming for I1(}Viee or Learn more · of!t~ting ali~ . bigger and ph)fSique. Call Binh gn7up an<f 

Have so;methlng to ~ay?· Us:e Obse·rv~r.· r}assJ"fied··s 
w· ··<-·· .•... "iii' ·'· ; \?. ·•. 'r .•..">• ·... ' ·.,/ ~. ,.•. •'·· ·;,·· .. ; . ·•..,·' "' 
205 West Edison I Mishawaka, IN I 46545 Voice.255.8080 I Fax.257 .9247 events start at 6:00 PM 
Ray Meyer-Halt of Fame Legend, Former Coach of the DePaul Blue Demons will be there 
WRBR Live Remote! 
page 22 The Observer • SPORTS Friday, April 4, 1997 
• BOOKSTORE BASKETBAll 
Bookstore Basketball is ·ust around the corner 
By BETSY BAKER  
Associate Sports Editor  
In case you haven't been  
outside or looked out the win­ 
dow lately, I'll let you in on  
something -­the weather is  
getting better.  
And if you haven't walked by  
one of the many asphalt bas­ 
ketball courts that decorate  
this campus, then you proba­ 
bly haven't noticed that the  
normal "go out and shoot  
some hoops" games have  
turned into intense training  
matches.  
And in case you've never  
been at Notre Dame in the  
spring or are just utterly clue­ 
i  less as to the events that  
l_..c:  ensue, I'll help you figure it  
out.  
Bookstore Basketball is com­ 
ing.  
The top 32 teams have been  
chosen and the schedule is set.  
The 26th running of the  
event that makes spring at  
Notre Dame famous will begin  
next Wednesday, and campus  
is ready.  
After surviving the harsh  
lake-effect winds that plague  
South Bend from November to  
March, Bookstore Basketball is  
as refreshing as the first ray of  
sun that shines down after five  
straight months of gray skies.  
After five months of having  
the most aerobic activity per­ 
formed be the run from the  
02000 parking lot to the dorm  
in subzero temperatures,  
Bookstore Basketball offers  
I~ I  nearly 3000 Domers the opportunity to get out and get 
J  back in shape, and have a  
r !  good time doing it. If you're not athletic,  

Bookstore Basketball offers a great social opportunity to go support your friends and make new friends. 
"It's a great tradition," head commissioner Dan Delaney said. "It's the time of year that if you're an athlete, it's a great time of year for you." 
"It's a great social event too. Everyone likes to come out and hang out around the courts. It's the time when spring and sports come togeth­er at Notre Dame." 
This spring 591 teams will take the court, a few less than last year but with just as much ambition. 
With the graduation of Mike Kloska, defending champions Dos Kloskas restructured itself and renamed themselves Corby's. 
With Bookstore MVP Dan Fannon and first-team Jeff Kloska returning, Corby's sits in the pole position of the tour­nament but will have to beware of a big and quick Muddy Waters squad that claimed the No. 2 seed. 
Muddy Waters boasts such gridiron speedsters as Jarious Jackson and Bobby Brown and look to make their own run at the title. 
A few kinks have been thrown into the smooth run­ning of this year's tournament, such as the construction on the Stepan Courts, but the commissioners say the University has been very coop­erative. 
They realize the importance of the Bookstore Basketball tournament to the Notre Dame students. 
"They [the University] gave 
I 
I 
Reclaiining
I 
I{EEP NG 
I i 
The Contemporary he 
I 
I i 
~EATH I I I 
Huinan 
Sunday, April6 • 7-8:30 pm r 
I 
Christian 
I I 
Fran Ferder
I and 
I ' 
John Heagle nationally
I 
I 
recognized authors and 
,..., 
I 
speakers on the topic of sexuality and spirituality. 

0MPUS 
rv11NISTRY 

The Observer!Timmy Sherman 
The asphalt courts on campus have just begun to see some of the action they will host this season. 
us the date of the 18th as the date on which the courts will be resurfaced, but we. tried to give them a little bit of a buffer and didn't schedule any games at Stepan until the 21st," Delaney commented. 
"We're going to have to play more games per day and start a little earlier, but we just want to keep the tradition rolling." 
Some of the added features in the works for this year's tournament might include a Hall-of-Fame game that could possibly feature head football coach Bob Davie, quarterback Ron Powlus, and Irish hoop­sters Pat Garrity, Katryna Gaither, and Beth Morgan. 
Overall, Bookstore XXVI looks to do exactly what Delaney said --keep the tradi­tion that has been a ray of sunshine on the Notre Dame campus for over a quarter of a century rolling. 
There will be a mandatory Bookstore 
Basketball captain's meeting to receive updated first­round information on Monday, April 7, 7 p.m., in 102 DeBartolo. All cap­tains should bring tourna­ment packets given at the first meeting to make the needed changes. 
I 
Doing Justice: Sexuality and Power 
I
I. 
The missing dimension in much of the debate surrounding sexuality today is the issue of relationships and power. 
Sexuality 
Challenge  Biblical justice is the call to reverence the sacredness of relationships in the spirit of Christian love.  
Monday, April7 •  7-8:30 pm  
April 6, 7, 9, 1997  Making Love: Sexuality and Intimacy  
Chapel of the Holy Cross  
Contemporary culture tends to reduce sexuality to sex.  
Keenan-Stanford Hall  
It misses the shared call to "make love" in more inclusive  
7-8:30 pm  ways through friendship, honesty and generous service.  
Each session will include  Wednesday, April9 •  7-8:30 pm  
an experience of prayer,  
presentation by the speakers  Giving Life: Sexuality and Generativity  
and refreshments.  Every human being is an imago Dei-an icon of the divine.  
Students are welcome  Thus each of us, whether single or married, young or old, gay  
to attend all three sessions­ or straight, is invited to respond to God's invitation to "in­ 
or as many of the three  crease and multiply" -to give life to humanity and the world.  
as they can.  

April 4, 1997 The Observer • SPORTS page 23 
TRACK AND fiELD 
rish look to take advantage of rare home meet 
legiate and professional field The Irish women did very over 10 years. their events last year, but have event participants, had 13 Irish well in the 5,000-meter run The Irish host its only meet of shaved a significant amount of qualify in the top five in various with Kelly Peterson and Emily the season this weekend at the time off last year's times. Notre Dame's outdoor track events. Dodds finishing in third and Monogram Track. Butler and Hojnacki's time last weekend put the recent Easter hoi­Errol Williams arguably had fourth place respectively. Miami of Ohio will make the was four seconds faster than day to good use by posting the team's best day as he won At the Baldy Invitational in trek to South Bend for the where he was at last year, and 
lid results at the Purdue the 110-meter hurdles in a Tempe, Arizona, Jennifer meet. Williams has improved by 15­pen and the Baldy Castillo time of 14.16. Nadia Schmiedt Engelhardt and Jeff Hojnacki Many Irish participants from hundredths of a second. vitational. Now, they prepare was the woman's team top run­stole the show. last year will be looking to im­For the women, their 4x400­
host Butler and Miami of ner, finishing first among colle­Engelhardt established the prove their previous perfor­meter relay team was second gians in the 400-meter hurdles, school record in the high jump, mances. at the Purdue Open with a time The Irish dominated the posting a time of 59.98, and with a leap of 5 feet, 10 inches. Last year, Mike Brown fin­of 4:07.87. Last year's version ndings at the Purdue Open. fourth in the 100-meter hur­The indoor All-American has ished in second place with a was three seconds slower than 
meet, a combination of col-dles, with a time of 14.91. already provisionally qualified pole vault of 15-6. He bettered this year's at this point of the for the NCAA championships, that mark last weekend at the season. the first week of June. Purdue Open with a vault of Schmiedt is also another Irish 
Hojnacki, also an All­16-11 1/2, which established a runner who has improved American for the indoor sea­new school record. The former drastically over last season. son, qualified for the NCAA record holder, Dave Gerrity, Her time at the Notre Dame championships, as he won the won the meet last season, set­meet last year is 15-hun­800-meter race in Arizona. ting up· an rivalry. dredths of a second slower Hojnacki's time of 1:48.97 was Williams, 100-meter hurdles, than she was last weekend in the fastest Notre Dame time in and Hojnacki, 800-meters, won the 100-meter hurdles. 

~l 
1 
1
The Observer/Mike Ruma 

Jennifer Engelhardt, the school's high jump record holder, will be counted on in this weekend's meet. 
I 
-~ i 
page 24 Friday, April 4, 1997
The Observer • CARTOON QUEST 
o will follow in the path ofDave Kellett and Ed Leader as the next cartoonist for The Observer? Each of these candidates has his eye set on being the next. And the decision is 
p to you. 
That's right: your vote will determine which comic strip appears in The Observer. 
This week we continue our contest to find the next cartoonist. The ballots for voting will appear 
below this week. Clip, snip or rip them out during lunch and put them in the ballot boxes located next to the doors as you leave the dining hall. Ballots can also be dropped offat The Observer, 314 LaFortune. 


D N.D.C.D. BLUES D THE LILYPAD• r;~-~1$; 
A-"·>~·i~k rw~~~ 
Place ballots in the boxes by the dining hall doors II~~~~; 


L-----------------------------------------------------------------~ 
~ ----~~----------------~----~--------------------------­
r--------------­
~ 
page 25 --­
Friday, April 4, 1997 The Observer • SPORTS 
many opportunities for goals, can't stall on offense," he said. so we're going to have to take Corrigan also noted that occa­
M. Lax advantage of our opportuni­sionally, when a game is played ties." at a slow tempo, teams can lose 
continued from page 28 
Keenan emphasized this their alertness and their edge point. -a strategy Hofstra relies ontoo, are going to have to play "They don't give up many and a pitfall the Irish will clear­with a lot of control and disci­shots -only about 20 per ly have to avoid.
pline and avoid getting frustrat­game-and so we're definitely "We definitely going to haveed. 
going to have to· capitalize on to remain sharp, and we're-also 
"Hofstra doesn't give up 
our chances on offense. We going to have to keep our pa-
Attention to All Urban Plunge Participants 

CENTER FOR 
SOCIAL CONCERNS 
The Center for Social Concerns invites you 
to 
an Urban Plunge Task Force lnforDlational Meeting 
Members of the 1996-97 Urban Plunge Task Force will be present to discuss and answer questions about the 1997-98 Task Force 
Students interested in becoming members of the 1997-98 Task Force are encouraged to attend 
Center for Social Concerns 7:00p.m. Sunda~April6, 1997 
Earth WEEK •gt

APril 6 to APril 13 with Students for Environmental Action 
Piant a Tree·SundaY APril 6. 12PM Main Circle 
Last Year we Planted over 1.700 seedlines in the South Bend communitY 
Volu~teer to helP RecYclin'lr!sh Recucle on CamPUS
APnl7-10 from 9-5 dallY ~ 
Call Sheila at 1-5615 fBuildine ServicesJ 
Learn about ComPanies who Care at the 1st Annual Environmental Career fair 
APril 10 from 12-4PM Center for Social Concerns #'~ Oreanized bY the Terra Club 
'-•'~ Dis~H!,~m~.i.~d~f~J!!!~.2~we,2!ic~ 
.,. APril 1 0 from 3-4:30PM room 121 Law School 
Clean UP CamPUS espe~ially around the lakes. with Irish Outdoors 
. db. d . h k APnl 12 from 12-1 PM freldhouse Mall
thesqu1rre1san 1r sWI11 t an YOU 1ater 
·e Due Sl·nrl o_ Dance from 1-5PM Field~ouse Mall
Tl -~ 9 ~ ex-SaturdaY. APril 12 
with Your friends and favorite camPus bands at the ShamROCK Greenfest fRecYclin' lrishJ 
Listen to Fr. Hesbursh ~~it~d~~~J~~iTT~o 
hear the call to be asteward for the earth. fSEAJ ~~ 'tr 
~~~a~~.0At~~~r13Take a Hike~~.",~ 
in the sand at the Indiana Dunes State Park -~ meet at 12Pm Library Circle E)~~ 
SPonsored Bv the Environmental Coalition: Recvclin' Irish • Students for ResPonsible Business • Irish Outdoors Students for Environmental Action • Terra Club • Environmental taw Societv 
tience," Corrigan explained about the match. 
"We're also going to match up a bit differently," added Keenan. · 
"They have two tremendous midfielders, and shutting them down is a priority. We can't let these two guys control the tempo of the game," he said. 
The Irish must also take their clearing game, a problem that several players noted as defi­cient, to another level. 
"We're going to need to clear the ball with care," Darcy said. "That's definitely going to prove to be extremely important." • 
What can fans and players expect from this game? 
"Look for two excellent teams 
today," stated Corrigan. "Look 
for deliberate. controlled style 
of game that lacks a lot of of­
fensive firepower. But don't 
doubt that this will be an excel­
lent game." 
Perhaps the most critical fac­tor necessary for an Irish vic­tory is leadership from the vet­erans. 
The Irish squad is a relatively young one. but does contain some seasoned veterans. 
Juniors Alex Cade, Todd Rassas and Keenan were named All-Americans last sea­son, becoming the first trio in Irish history to do so in the same season. 
These men, along with senior captains Dave Cashen and Will DeRiso (Keenan and Cade also double as captains). will be expected to lead the younger players to a victory. 
"The older guys will definitely need to step it up," stated Darcy. 
"Cade. Rassas. Keenan ­these guys will have to have good games for us to win." 
Based on their strong perfor­mances thus far this season. Notre Dame is in great shape for an upset. 
Two Watchpersons 
Holy Cross House 
retirement/medical facility for Holy Cross priests and Brothers, north side St. Joseph Lake 

Positions available May '97 and/or '97-'98 school year. Call for interview: Father Vanden Bossche I -9057 Father O'Donnell 1·5710 

we guarantee an apartment for you THIS FALL!!! we provide: 
• washer & dryer in your home 
• Gas heat INCLUDED 
• 
Mini blinds on all windows 

• 
Fitness center, pools, & clubhouse 

• 
Central air conditioning 

• 
Cats allowed 


• 
12 MONTH LEASE 

• JUST 4 MILES FROM DAME 
~~11111111111!~ 
One, 1\vo, & Three Bedroom Apartments & Townhomes from $405 to $665 
INDIAN SPRINGS 272 -5011 ~.........),.',...,__ 
-
~·-------------------~ 
[ 
r 
Il ,,._-page 26 The Observer • SPORTS Friday, April 4, 1 
• fOOTBALL 
New system, coaches, players spring into actio 
By BRIAN REINTHALER Assistant Sports Editor 
Seniors graduate, starters go down with injuries, coaches are replaced, and blue chip recruits are verbal commitments at one moment and All-Americans for the opposition the next. 
Change is the essence of col­lege football, and the ability to adapt to that change is the. most significant factor in the consistency of a football pro­gram from year to year. 
Now that first-year head coach Bob Davie and his staff have completed the first phase of the coaching season ­recruiting -with relative suc­cess, the time has come to begin to adapt to all of those inevitable off-season changes. It is time for spring practice. 
Many transitions that the 1997 Irish have to make consist of self-imposed alterations in 

,.... I 
The Observer/Shannon Dunne Cornerback Allen Rossum has worked out at wideout this spring. 
The Devil's Own R 
1:30 4:15 7:00 9:40 
Return of the Jedi PG 
1:15 4:15 7:15 10:00 
Jungle 2 Jungle PG 
1:00 4:00 6:45 9:30 
That Old Feeling PG-13(1n DTSI 
1:45 4:30 7:30 9:50 
The Sixth Man PG-13 
1:45* 4:30 7:15 9:40 
The Saint PG-13 
1:15* 4:00 7:00 9:50 
*Saturday thru Thursday only 
style and coaching philosophy. In no area will this be more apparent than in new-look attack of Jim Coletta's offense. 
The first change is in the positioning of the offensive line. The guards and tackles will no longer play on a particular side (right or left) of the line. These linemen will flip-flop, depend­ing on the formation. 
"We have a strong guard and a strong tackle who are always with the tight end," explained Coletto, "and we have a quick guard and a quick tackle who are away from the tight end." 
Coletto used this system in Purdue and. based on his expe­rience and what he has seen so far from the Irish line, he believes that the adjustment will come with time. 
"For some of them (the line­men), it's real easy and for oth­ers it's maybe a little more difficult," Coletto observed. "They're all pretty good ath­letes and it's just matter of get­ting used to doing it." 
According to Coletta, the starting line will almost cer­tainly include the three fifth­year seniors Mike Doughty, Chris Clevenger and Rick Kaczenski. Doughty will most likely play tackle on the strong side with junior Mike Rosenthal, who should start at guard as long as his recovery from shoulder surgery contin­ues on schedule. 
Junior Tim Ridder figures to 
see significant time at either 
strong or quick guard, depend­
ing on Rosenthal's ability to 
return to action. Clevenger is 
expected to line up next to 
Ridder at the quick tackle posi­and understand the system," said Colctto of his linemen, "and (to) improve the backup players and the kids who haven't played yet-to get them where they can come into 

_ the game and be functional." As far as Coletto is con­cerned, the first string tight end spot is up in the air between sophomores Mike Gandy and Dan O'Leary, junior John Cerasani and fifth-year senior Mike Den vir. "None of them ·have started a game," noted Coletto, "so they're all in the derby to­gether." The offensive line changes will allow Irish to showcase a wide range of formations, which will be intended to keep opposing defenses off balance. "We're going to try to do va­riety of things from a number of different sets," Colctto stated. "We'll try to just not be very predictable and hopefully de­velop a good, sound drop-back passing game." The changes in the system are intended to facilitate the transition to more wide open offensive scheme in which the running backs will play a vari­ety of roles, the wide outs will be given more touches, and quarterback Ron Powlus will be allowed to showcase his talents. Specifically, Coletto plans to utilize his fullbacks to balance the Notre Dame attack. "The fullback here is going to catch the ball and he's going to ·run the ball, Coletto said. "It's going to be a balanced deal. You can't just say the tailback is going to get it." The most prominent benefi-
The Observer/Shannon 
Chris Clevenger (No. 75) will have to learn a new system for next fall. 
ciary of Coletto's play designs Powlus was among the pi should be junior Jamie that have caught Coletto's Spencer, who saw significant in the coach's first few months minutes in lieu of an injured ''I've been real imprcsse Marc Edwards during the sec­with him (Powlus)," praise ond half of last season. He and Coletto. "He's seemingly rc classmate Autry Denson appear comfortable with picking thin to be locks as starters at full­up. He is a real poised guy." back and tailback, respectively. It may only be spring, but 
"I think the backs are really 1997 football campaign is u going to enjoy (the new sys­derway and the typical pro-se tem)," commented Coletto, son optimism is unavoidable. "because they get to do a lot of Change is the theme an different things." with last year in mind, chang: 
Last, but certainly not least, is good. 
tion. Kaczenski will return to ,-------------------------------------.
his familiar role as center. Coletto expressed strong in­

MUSLIM STUDENTS' ASSOCIATION 
terest in developing the less ex­perienced players as well. 
"My two biggest goals this spring are to make them learn 


OF THE JEDI(PG)12:oo. 3:00, 6:40, 9:35 TERM *(R) 12:15, 2:45, 5:00,7:30,10:00 
BRASCO (R) 1:20, 4:10, 7:00, 9:50 
JONES (R12:30, 2:10,5:40,8:05,10:35 WARS:A NEW HOPE (PG)t10,3:45,7:05,10:oo ENGLISH PATIENT (R) 1:00,4:00,8:00 es valid through next Thu *No passes 

AND PROGR_AM IN MIDDLE EAST STUDIES 

BY 

MR. SHERMANjACKSON 
ASSOCIATE PROFESSOR IN ISLAMIC STUDIES AT WAYNE STATE UNIVERSITY, MI. 
DATE: FRIDAY, APRIL 4, 1997 TIME: 5:00PM VENUE: HESBURGH LIBRARY AUDITORIUM 
TOPIC: "FOLLOWING THE PROPHET: PROPHETIC ACTIONS AS THE SOURCE OF LAW." 

H ..t§, H ..ll§, Sti~k§... 
r 
I 
l ­
Friday, April 4, 1997 
MIXED MEDIA 
MOTHER GOOSE & GRIMM 


DILBERT 
,. 
0
I'M. 5E.NOING YOU 
" 
0
TO A. TRAINING 
< 
@I
COUP-.~E THAT RUN5 
,.
"' 
< 
0 < 
A.T NIGHT SO YOU 
.... 
....
WON'T MISS 1\NY 
0 
" 
WOF\K. 
.. "' 
E 
.;,
"'­
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 28 T.L C. dispensers
1 Puts a limit on 29 Mrs. David
5 Duroc Copperfield
domiciles 10 Vaudeville 33 Park activity 
segments 35 The Confesscn 14 Atlas section king 15 Busch Gardens 37 Tops 
locale 
38 Side order at 16 Wife of Jacob-the Storybook 11 Reinstate Cafe? 10 Screened 43 Military messages? command 19 Gulp/Cosby TV 44 Addled by age series 
45 Pentecost 
20 Breakfast order 
events at the 
48 Where to noshStorybook on a knishCafe? 
49 Hill builder 
23 Clear 52 "I a:m," to 
24 Star Wars Descartes
initials 25 Where to get a 53 Battering beam draught ss Hebrew prophet 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
IT MIGHT SEEM LIK.£. AN IMMO~AL ABUSE OF M'< POWEI\1 BUT I LIKE TO CALL IT "A. f'\UTUAL INVESTME.NT IN YOUP--CARE.E~. '' 
( 

21 ---Wip 40 Striking in effect l-::'-11-::-i'='f~.:,:..j,-(dessert topping) 41 "--Darlin' " 
8H-=+=+:-:-:fl'lllll-;-ro-t;;+.:~"F-t-ti:-E-t 22 Medic's bag Oazz standard) 
-:-t:+::-f.:-1 12 Open, as a keg 38 Switch settings 13 Deficient 39 Stead 
-:-IHf:-lf'::'-18 26 Arm bone 42 Root or Yale -=11-::-if-:--'~f::-t 27 Huffed and 46 Prefix with corn puffed or corder 
57 Dessert order at the Storybook Cafe? 
62 Garden entrance 64 Andean animal 65 Barrel diameter 66 Center of a revolution 67 Kind of down 68 Greek love god 69 The Shakers, e.g. 70 Public embarrassment 71 Fender flaw 
DOWN 
1 Wyoming's 
largest city 2 To the rear 3Some 
Renaissance 
works 4 Gorges 5 Arthur Murray 
lesson 6 Author Janowitz 
30 Have deed to 

1 One-named model 
31 Start of an Alger story?

a DeMille specialties 32 In a trajectory 9 Leafy courses 34 Level, in Leeds 10 "I cannot tell 35 Stretches, with "out" 11 Sump 36 "It's a deal!" 
---~~--~--~-----------­
The Observer· TODAY page 27 
JACK OHMAN YOUR HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Robert Downey Jr., Anthony Perkins, Maya Angl'iou, Nancy McK­
t."'n 
DEAR EUGENIA: I'm in low with an Aries. We've been together almost eight years and we got engaged this past Christmas. But he's a spendthrift and very slow at turning around, and he switches jobs like a person changes their socks. I, on the other hand, am afraid to change my job whether I'm happy or not. I'm airaid.to set a date until our financial future is more se­cure. He was born April 11, 1970, l was born Oct. 3, 1969, at 3 a.m. 
Libra in Love 
DEAR LIBRA IN LOVE: You are polar opposites, and although this can be a very electric union, you are not likely to agree on some issues. In this case, it happens to be money matters. You do match up quite nice­ly; however, there is no such thing as a perfect life or a perfect relation­ship. If you truly love this man, keep your money separate. In other words, no joint accounts and so on. You did not give me his time of birth, which makes it difficult for me to tell you what his future fi­nances look like. However, he likes to do things in a big way and that re­lates to him being a big spender. With regard to job prospects, he has­n't found the right position as of yet. This year in particular his spending habits will be bad and so will his job search. However, he may find that educational pursuits will lead him to 
a better position next year. 
SCOTT ADAMS 

ARIES (March 21-April 20): YouAND THE'< can win points if you present your ideas today. Change' in your home
1-\1\VE VENDING 
will be positive. 
MA.CI-\lNES tf 

TAURUS (April 21-May 21): Y<>u can expand your circle of fnend~ 11 you get out and socialize. Childrl'n may be difficult to deal with. 
GEMINI (May 22-June 21): You will be confused about the mtentions of someone you work with. Don't trust others with secret inf(1rmation. 
CANCER (June 22-July 22): You can get good solid advice irom rela­tives or close friends whom you trust. Attending lectures will be highly suc­cessful. 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 23): Dead-end projects are likely to plague you. Think twice before you pursue an un­realistic endeavor. 
VIRGO (Aug. 24-Sepl. 22): You will be emotionally unstable if you let . someone you care about get away with verbal abuse. 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 23): It is best to concentrate on work. Your mate may be going through a change of heart. 
SCORPIO (Oct. 24-Nov. 22): This is a turning point. Your ideas can be put into action. Travel if you must in order to start the ball rolling. 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 23-Dec. 21): You will not be pleased with family members who try to put demands on you when you just don't have the time. 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 20): You will have the energy to clear up that mound of paperwork. Someone you like will seek your presence. 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 21-Feb. 18): All your energy should be directed into money-making opportunities. You will be able to pick up on future trends. 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Don't use emotional blackmail on someone you love. Resistance will only make it harder to tum the situation around. 
Born Today: You'll make headway this year if you can control your temper
'<OU GE.T 

when dealing with others. You know what you want to accomplish, so ·get on with it and don't let others slow you down. 
f-\UNGf\'<! 
\ 



47 Luxurious furs 58"---;;-we forget 49 Like sailors on leave 59 Invited so Impulse 60 Prayer closing carrier 
61 Swiss river 51 Most docile 
62 Shell product 54 Kind of acid 
63 It may swing in 56 Spherical the jungle 
Answers to any three clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420-5656 (75¢ per minute). 
Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: (800) 762-1665. 
these great events are brought to you by your friends at SUB 
,A. showing this weekend at CushingEVIT.Jl Thursday @10:30pm, Friday &Saturday @8&10:30 pm $2 
~ £'" Ck 5tey~~ ('~ter Ayr;t ~ 
tix on sale@ Iafortune info desk $15 students $18 general admission 
Collegiate Jazz Festival PREVIEW NIGHT: Wednesday~ April 9 @ 7:30pm in the Band Building & admission is Free 
-
--~---------~--~~~­
-

-
SPORTS Weeketzd 

.,::; 
Team takes 
hits in split 
By T. RYAN KENNEDY Sports Writer 
The cliche, "the luck of the Irish," reverberates frequently around these halls and is overused to attribute some transcendental cause for an Irish victory. 
Not with Irish Baseball though. Not yesterday. 
After claiming the first game, 12-7, Notre Dame's offense sputtered in·a 2-1 loss to Wisconsin-Milwaukee, a team which stands 6-20 on the sea­son now. 
As the evening progressed: 
•Justin Scholl dislocated his shoulder on a slide into third base in game one. 
•Mike Amrhein's 21-game hit streak ended in the night­capper. 
t •The plate umpire was out t to lunch on a pivotal third­
'·-· 
r strike call on Jeff Perconte. 
I 
•The ambiance of the Notre 
I 
Dame locker room was an eight on the grim scale of 10. •Notre Dame (15-12, 1-3) now stands 1-2 in make-up 
games this season. 
"I was hoping we would do better offensively for our pitch­er [Tim Kalita]." said coach
f'l:: 
Paul Mainieri. "Some games ' t we hit; some games we don't. 
~ 
• It looks like that's the way it'si going to be for a while. We're 
very inconsistent right now." The afternoon opener went 
see B-BALL I page 19 
s 

AT........ <> 
.. _ _ 
G,_.•}\ _··~-~«~----·_
. 
·:.;:· .. .. 
The Observer/Brandon Candura 
. 
Friday, April 4, 1997 
-\~ -'·-~, ' _.:. . :;, ~ . ­

Men's squad looks to rise to the occasion 
Hofstra presents challenge and opportunity 
By CHARLEY GATES Sports Writer 

"Huge" is the word Notre Dame men's lacrosse head coach Kevin Corrigan and sev­eral prominent players inde­pendently used to describe this afternoon's contest against visiting Hofstra, the fourth­ranked team in the nation. 
"This is just a great opportu­nity for us," Corrigan re­marked. "We have the fourth­ranked team in the country coming to play at our home field. It's really a privilege to play them -they're among the best teams in the country. We'll finally see where we fit in the national picture." 
"It's a bit odd," All-American midfielder Jimmy Keenan said. "Prior to the season, we didn't think that Hofstra would be as good as they are -we certain­lv didn't think that they would 
The Irish will have their hands full with the No. 4 ranked Hofstra squad in town this afternoon . 

be as highly ranked as they are. But they have played extremely well and the game will be a big challenge for us." 
The Irish. currently 4-1 and ranked 14th in the country, are coming off a 10-9 overtime vic­tory over visiting Hobart on Saturday afternoon. 
"That was a good game for us," Corrigan stated. "But we're going to need to step up and respond to Friday's chill­lenge." 
The team is not making any drastic changes in preparation for tomorrow's contest. 
"We're basically just prepar­ing as usual," freshman goalie Patrick Darcy said. "What's going to be important is for us to play our game and not to worry too rn uch about them. We're going to focus more on us and on what we're going to try to do." 
Hofstra utilizes a very slow, deliberate style of game that the Irish will hope to overcome. 
"They love to dictate tempo," Corrigan stated. "They play with a lot of discipline. We, 
seeM. LAX I page 25 
• \f.' -:: s 
Irish aim tq finish with perfection 
OSU will try to end women:S home win streak 
By FRED CHIU and WRANGLER WHITMAN Sports Writers 
This Sunday at 12 p.m. at Moose Krause Stadium, the Notre Dame women's lacrosse team will try to improve its 5-2 record against Ohio State. 
This is the last horne game for the Irish, and with a win they wiJI complete their first season as a varsity sport with an undefeated record at home. 
This is a crucial game as one of the goals this team, led by captains Mara Grace, Tara Pierce and Eileen Regan, set at the beginning of the year was to complete the hornestand with an unblemished record. 

Another reason that the stakes for this game are high is that the Irish do not want to lose back-to-hack games. The squad dropped its last game to Davidson over Easter break. After their only other loss, which occurred at the hands of Vanderbilt, Notre Dame re­sponded winning three in a row. 
The sign of a good season is responding to adversity, and the Irish have the opportunity 


>· 


