
Thursday, October 30, 1997 • Vol. XXXI No. 43 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Wall Street and ND students connect at forum 
By MALIN STEARNS 
News Writer 
Any Notre Dame student who has ever dreamed of working on Wall Street now has a chance to get a little taste of Wall Street right here at Notre Dame. 
The Notre Dame MBA Association is sponsoring a one-day event to give students an introduction to work in the financial services industry. 
The Wall· Street forum, fea­turing presentations by exec­utives from nine leading Wall Street firms, will take place in the Jordan Auditorium at the College of Business Administration, tomorrow from 10 a.m. to 3:30p.m. 
The event is part of a large progra~n COBA has planned to devr.lop connections between Notre Dame and the financial services industry and to increase awareness about Wall Street among students. 
Organizers John Affleck-. Graves of the finance depart­ment and George Duke of Notre Dame Corporate Relations hope the event will not only expose Notre Dame students to Wall Street, but also give Wall Street compa­nies a chance to meet inter­ested students at Notre Dame. 
"Our goal for the forum is to help develop better relation­ships between Notre Dame and the financial services industry," said Duke. "By cre­ating awareness about Wall Street amongst our students, we hope to enable more stu­dents to launch careers in the business." 
According to Duke, both 

These are your leaders ... 
faculty and students will benefit from the forum. "Notre Dame students will benefit by gaining more savvy about the industry, and faculty will benefit by making connections within investment firms," said Duke. 
Students of all majors and classes are invited to the forum. Organizers hope any hard-working student with good interpersonal and com­munication skills will attend. According to Duke, "The forum is not just for busi­ness students. These firms are interested in students from all disciplines, from Arts and Letters to engineering." 
In order to facilitate the recruiting of Notre Dame stu­dents by Wall Street firms, organizers are compiling a 

S
tudent body 
president Matt 
Griffin and vice president Erek Nass saw their campaign promise of enlivening student government ful­filled when sena­tors came dressed as cows, clowns, nuns, Gaelic war­riors and men in drag to last night's Student Senate meeting. 
James Dean, AI Borlen from "Tool Time" and Ron Powlus were among the celebrities on hand for yester­day's meeting. Candy-throwing followed the cos­tume display. 
Senators manged to focus on a for­mal agenda filled with residence life issues. 

Senate 1;:¢1¢­bratesi <lisc;w;s­es issues ;,;,. ·. p.3 

Wall Street Forum 
October31, 1997 
10:20 a.m. "Financial Service~ Industry Overview" 

Aseries of overview presentations describing the finaru;iaJ services industry 
·.:::::'<:;:·;:.. : 

1:00 p.m. "Starting a Wall Street Career" 
Aseries of brief "nuts and bolts" presentations 
trl· "Breakout Sessio.,s" 
<'l'hiil Representatives frorfi each firm will discuss their career opportunities and their firms\ culture 
Wall Street Resume Book. Students who wish to be included in the book may sub­mit resumes today to 102 COBA. 
The forum's presentations 
• NEWS ANALVSlS 

The Observer/Jon King 
will be divided into three parts. The first, an overview of the financial services industry, will begin at 10:20 
see STREET I page 4 

Pros not worried by Wall Street's Monday 
By DEREK BETCHER one, thinks that market irra­Associate News Editor tionalities began overseas when Hong Kong, formerly a 
Many campus investment regional pillar of stability, fell experts agree that Monday's under speculative attack record 554-point drop in the before eventually triggering Dow Jones 'Industrial Average Wall Street's troubles. should not worry serious stock "That's when I started to be 
m a r k e t investors. 

A sampling of Notre Dame finance profes­sors and finan­cial officers unanimously agreed that the 
U.S. economy remains funda­mentally strong, an eval­uation which indicates Monday's plunge was largely irra­tional. 

concerned that emotion was taking over," he
'The markets 
said. 

are very And if Hong Kong's 
volatile at the financial troubles had

moment, but not 
emotional causes, then

nearly as volatile 
Monday's as the public Dow crash 
was justthinks. plain irra-John Affleck-Graves tiona!, in the 
words of 
Finance department chair Malpass and 
"There's less to the story, perhaps, than meets the eye," finance professor Richard Sheehan said. 
Professionals shared the opinion that emotion -rather than fundamental economic disorder -triggered Monday's drop. Associate vice president for finance Scott Malpass, for 
Sheehan. Economist John Mavnard Keynes' famous "animai spir­its" may have been responsible for the week's volatility. 
Even the perceived level of volatility may be overstated, however. Professors cautioned that the public needs to keep 
see STOCK I page 4 



Storin presents outlook on future ofjournalism 
By KRIST! KUTSCH 
News Writer 
The traditional values that define journalism must be pre­serw~d and emphasized in order for journalism to survive in the 21st eentury, Matthew Storin, editor of the Boston Globe, declared in a lecture on Wednesday. 
As Notre Dame's journalist-in­rr.sidence this semester, Storin addressed a body of students and faculty in 129 DeBartolo Hall. 
lie was optimistic about the future of journalism and said, 
"The media arc beginning a new cycle of practitioners who are tryi~g to take back the old agenda. 
Storin emphasized four changes that must occur in order for journalism to perse­vere: a greater cooperation between print journalism and television, a more aggressive agenda for the owners of televi­sion stations, a need for public television and radio stations to step up local news efforts, and a re-structuring of journalism education to place a heavier emphasis on values instead of technique. 

"The potential to do more is there," Storin said, but he said many obstacles must still be overcome. 
"Given my professional chal­lenges and adventures, I have never been more troubled by the business and what I am doing," Storin admitted. 

He pointed to the cynicism, negativity and lack of confi­dence which has invaded the press over the past decades. "Watergate and television have made journalists more power­ful," Storin said, adding that this power has evolved into a TheObserver/Lizlang 
Boston Globe editor Matthew Starin lectured yesterday on the situ­see STORIN I page 4 ation of modern journalism. 

---------~----­
page 2 
• !NSmE COLUMN 
The Lost ofArt ofStorytelling 
I was taking a seat at 

the desk just as I was  Chris Teodoro  
going over the Viewpoint  Srafflllusrraror  
section. You know,  

sometimes when I'm reading the Viewpoint 
section, there are columns that I start to read 
and really enjoy and wished that the column 
didn't end so soon. Then there are other 
columns that I start to read and just stop 
without finishing. 
These columnists that I like to read, such as Bernadette Pampuch and Juliana Vodicka, express tales of their own experiences. They show real life situations and what they have learned from them. They know how to tell a story that is not only entertaining but also carries a message, even if it is a small one. 
As for the other columnists, well, what can I say ... urn, they kinda stink. Well, I'm not say­ing that they aren't smart or intelligent (in fact, most of their work is very well written), but it's just that their columns are boring. Pretty much, most of those type of columnists just give their opinion on an issue. Stories are usually not found in their columns. 
Now this isn't usually a problem for most people, but I just happen to be the illustrator for the evening. In fact, I'm sometimes known as the Wednesday night illustrator/trouble­maker here at The Observer office. But get­ting to the point, when I am asked to make an illustration for an article or column, I always look forward to reading Pampuch or Vodicka. It's not that they are superb writers but they have a story for me to draw upon. They at least convey clear images of their experi­ences, a written account of the mind's eye. So I go ahead, content with the job at hand, and begin to draw for the night and earn the measly $5.00 per drawing (actually $4.44 after taxes). 
Now when I have to do something for the other guys, I say to myself, "Now how the heck am I going to illustrate an opinion?" It just makes things a little harder for me. 
Now midway through one of the drawings, as I get up and start to bother the other peo­ple around the office for ideas, I start to think about something. I come to a conclusion: most people have almost lost the old art of story­telling. This is particularly true in the Viewpoint section. I like the storytellers because they put something more into their writing. It's not just facts or accounts, but they put a piece of themselves in the story. I feel like a kid reading and imagining that I'm actually experiencing what those people did in their stories. What is even more intriguing is that these are actual personal accounts. I start to think that they reveal themselves, at least partially, in a vulnerable, but more human, way. The other "elite" writers don't have that personal touch that the storytellers have. They just give their opinion and waste the rest of the page with how they back up their opinion. Right now, I'm talking to others about this, but then they tell me to stop both­ering them and go finish the drawing. 
So I go to the art desk and try to finish up when I start thinking again. That's another thing I've noticed: why are the cool columnists all girls and the boring ones usually guys? I guess it is because the girls seem to put more of themselves into their writing, to expose a part of themselves. It seems that the guys only know how to talk about themselves and what they think, and not much about how they feel inside. Maybe that's why they almost always give an opinion rather than a cool story. 
Hey, why am I giving you my opinion right now? Oh yeah, I almost forgot that I'm a guy.... 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
• TODAY'S STAff  
News  Graphics  
Heather MacKenzie  Jon King  
Laura Pet~lle  Production  
Sports  Betsy Baker  
Anthony Bianco  Heather MacKenzie  
Viewpoint  Laura Petelle  
Colleen Gaughan  Lab Tech  
Accent  "Photo" Joe Stark  
Emmert Malloy  

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacacion periods. The Observer is a member of rhe Associated Press. All rcproducdon rights are reserved. 
-~--------~~--l 
! 
I 
The Observer • INSIDE Thursday, October 30, 1997 
I 
• WORLD AT A GLANCE 
World markets rise in response to Wall Street's rally 
LONDON Wall Street rally spreads Wall Street's rally spread euphori-Many stock a<ehangasaro,ndthawo"d ''''"'d losses from c a IIy t h r 0 u g h Asian and E u r 0 p e a n ~~~:~;;:'~~.:,:~~rlhis weak following the Dow Jones lnd"'tnat 
stock exchanges today, reversing loss-, es from panic-selling earlier this week. 
" But some traders fretted about the durability of the rebound. 
Key stock barometers racked up big _,.,. , , , ,. , ,. , 
gains -some in the double digits,"".,""'-~~:--:--:;:-, such as Hong Kong's record rise of nearly 19 percent -as markets from Tokyo to London bounced back from Tuesday's dealings that saw a 337-_,. ""'"'"""'"'""··· 
point rebound in the Dow Jones indus-"'""" 
trial average in New York. ::::;;-·'::..:ark;:~~~·o ... ...._ Analysts warned more huge price ;';;.;"'' :,• ::-.:.-·•• swings were likely. ::.... :• :::~':' :_" "lt's not over yet," said Bronwyn :!!.., .u.,. TSE3tl0 .,.&., 
Curtis, chief economist at Nomura ::-.:;."",.., ~ 
=;..... ~ International in London. "There's room still for quite a lot of volatility." sau~ 
APttJ,NfCh 
Flowers subpoenaed in Jones case 

DALLAS 
Gennifer rlowers, who claims she had an affair with President Clinton, has been subpoenaed to answer questions in Paula Jones' sexual harassment lawsuit against the presi­dent. Flowers received the subpoena Tuesday and is scheduled to give a deposition Nov. 14, said her lawyer, Rugger Burke. Burke said he wasn't 


certain what Flowers would be asked, but noted that Jones' attorneys had asked for tape recordings of con­versations and any correspondence between Flowers and Clinton. Jones alleges in her $700,000 lawsuit that Clinton, who was then serving as the Arkansas gover­nor, exposed himself to her and asked her for oral sex in May of 1991. She was a state employee at the time and claims Clinton later used his influence to land her in a dead-end job, after she threatened go to the authorities with her story in the hopes of damaging his career. Clinton denies the allegations and says he does not even recall ever meeting Jones. Flowers claimed during Clinton's 1992 presidential campaign that she had a 12-year affair with him while he was governor of Arkansas. Clinton has denied Flowers' claims as welL 
Asian prostitutes demand health care 
MANILA, Philippines 
Asian prostitutes demanded better working conditions Wednesday, telling an international conference on AIDS that they should not be considered criminals, just ordi­nary people who need medical coverage and other bene­fits. In a statement to delegates attending the 4th International Congress on AIDS in Asia and the Pacific, the group said unsafe working conditions rather than prostitution itself caused the spread of AIDS. Khantini Slahnaih, a homosexual from Malaysia, said the fear of police raids on brothels reduced the time available for prostitutes to convince clients to usc condoms. "You need at least 20 minutes to negotiate condom use," he said, adding that many workers have been forced into the profession by poverty. "There are a lot of people thinking we like to sell our bodies. It's not true." He said also prostitutes should not be subjected to rape, assault, extortion and other forms of harassment by the authori­ties. Only two countries -Taiwan and Australia -in the Asia Pacific region have legalized prostitution. Aida Santos of the Coalition Against Trafficking in Women said, "We don't want to legitimize it." 
• SOUTH BEND WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forecast AccuWeather• forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 
............._,,_t''.,...,..•"'/  H  L  
Thursday  ~  61 44  
Friday  ~ ,,,,,  57 43  
Saturday  ~  50 38  
Sunday  G  41 32  
Monday _ ..~  40 24  
~ ....·rr.Jv·"'-··v'.·  .,'tr  


q,~,~P,cQQ {) ~ u 
Showers T-storms Rain Flurries SiJoW Ice Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy Via Assoctalad Press GraphicsNet 
• NATIONAl WEATHER 
The AccuWeather®forecast for noon, Thursday, Oct. 30. 
FRONTS: 
...........-_.._.._ ........ 
COLD WARM STATIONARY 
© 1997 AccuWeather, Inc. 
Pressure 

H L 

HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T·STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY VIol AuocJII/9d Pr11ss 
Atlanta  74  48  Dallas  76  55  New Orleans 74  53  
Baltimore  65  35  Denver  62  35  New York  63  35  
Boston  58  35  Los Angeles 80  54  Philadelphia 65  35  
Chicago  59  42  Miami  81  70  Phoenix  77  56  
Columbus  65  44  Minneapolis  52  35  St. Louis  67  48  

""·~~~-~ 
, 
: i--=->.,c;;>"'-....;:---r­·10 


Ntu,~,.~,AirT"Jl' 
"og,.,!'" " " " " " " 

'Star Wars' exhibit opens in D.C. 
WASHINGTON 
It seems like "a long time ago in a galaxy far, far away" that moviemaker George Lucas brought the Earth's timeless myths of hero and villain. good and evil into their most modern setting as "Star Wars." Now, 20 years later, the National Air and Space Museum brings back together Luke Skywalker and Princess Leia, Darth Vader and the Emperor, R2-D2 and C-3PO, in a new, yearlong exhibit. "Star Wars: The Magic of Myth," includes original props, models, cos­tumes, characters and artwork from the three-film trilogy that took Luke Skywalker through the classical hero's journey from callow youth with a call to adven­ture until he reaches maturity and leadership -a trip Lucas designed to parallel Joseph Campbell's book "The Hero with a Thousand Faces." The movie's goal was to open young people's minds to space, Lucas said, and the exhibit can show them the many worlds of moviemakirig also. The exhibit details both the mythical connections and the extraordinary sources of inspiration ranging from the American West to Japanese Samurai, Flash Gordon and Buck Rogers to German military uniforms and the feminine hero. Lucas disclosed Wednesday that the next chapter in the saga has been filmed and could be released within 18 months. 
NASA: Mars Pathfinder 'in a coma' 
LOS ANGELES 
The Mars Pathfinder remains in a coma and the prog­nosis is grim. The robotic patient that last summer revi­talized America's space program hasn't released an audible breath in three weeks and hasn't had a conver­sation with Earth in more than a month. lleroic mea­sures to get in touch with the aging lander, silent in the martian cold since Oct. 7, will continue into next week. "By the end of the day next Tuesday, we will have exhausted all possibilities," Brian Muirhead, the project manager at NASA's Jet Propulsion Laboratory in Pasadena, said Wednesday. Muirhead said the mission will then go into a contingency mode, where attempts will be made to contact the craft on a weekly or a monthly basis. Even then, Muirhead will be reluctant to declare the patient dead. 'There's a small chance that it may still be alive and we may hear from it again," Muirhead said. Engineers last week suspected that tem­peratures might be too cold for Pathfinder's radio receiv­er to operate properly. As a result they sent a range of frequencies to the lander hoping the signal would get through and the Pathfinder transmitter could respond. 
The New York Stock Exchange opened today with a quick rise of 50 points by the Dow Jones industrials. The Dow slipped back, but soon rallied again after U.S. 
Federal Reserve Chairman Alan Greenspan said the recent market tur­moil could actually prove beneficial to the U.S. economy. 
The Dow Jones industrial average, which rose as much as 123 points as Greenspan testified before Congress, dosed 8.35 points up at 7,506.67. 
Prices had risen from the outset today on the London Stock Exchange, Europe's biggest market, more than erasing the remaining losses from Tuesday's tumultuous session. 
Prankfurt's DAX index climbed 
224.59 points, recovering most of the points it lost. 
Thursday, October 30, 1997 The Observer· CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
• BUSINESS BEAT 

COBA grants showcase diversity I'rates, 
By REBECCA HAMMEL 
News Writer 
Hcflceting the efforts of the "Generations" campaign, the DivHsity Program of the Collt~ge of Business Administration at Notre Dame recnived grants from NBD Bank totalling $150,000. 
According to the program's mission statement. COBA established the Diversity Program in 1995 in order to "create a supportive environ­nwnt wlwrc a diverse body of students. faculty and staff lnarn to live, work. and excel as part of a diverse and glob­al soriety." 
The program's goal is to inereast~ consciousness and sensitivity towards issues of divnsity among students, faculty and staff. The strate­gies directed at achieving this goal include the attendance of faculty and staff at various workshops and conferences, as well as a special lecture snries over the course of the ynar. 
"The grant plays a major part in helping us to accom­plish our missions and our goals bt~ing that the program is dependent upon funding from outside sources. We arc thankf'ul to NBD and our other contributors for their sup port and confidence in our program," said Jannifer Crittendon, assistant director of the Diversity Program. 
The organization subsists entirely through grants from various corporations includ­ing Amoco Oil Company, Bank of America: CIGNA, Coopers & Lybrand, Ford Motor Company, General Mills and Norwest Bank. 
"Diversity is important in particular to companies. They are interested in creat­ing a diverse work force," said George Duke, director of Corporate Relations for Development. 
The Diversity Program also helps students make a suc­cessful academic transition into COBA. The program offers counseling, tutoring, peer mentors, student work­shops and the Mastering Techniques for Excellence in Business retreat, a series of workshops and presentations for the incoming business sophomores during the week preceding the start of the fall semester. 
The program also guides students in the search for scholarships and internships, and will partially sponsor students attending the National Hispanic Business Association conference in February and the 11th 


~~l~~~~~~~~lf~~~~ 
Tee Times available 7days in advance 
Annual Conference on Race and Ethnicity in May. 
The program attempts to improve relations among fac­ulty, staff and students through "mixers." In order to create a forum for the discus­sion of diversity issues within the classroom, COBA will offer two diversity courses: "Diversity Dialogue" and "Diversity in the Workplace." 
. 

According to Crittendon, the Diversity Program is highly unique and progres­sive among business schools of the nation due to the fact that it docs not restrict mem­bership to minority students. The program only requires that the student be enrolled in COBA. 
"We are forging new grounds in the sense that we are all inclusive," said Crittendon. "We support and value the contributions of all faculty and students." 
Crittendon said she plans to form a solid, quality program that may be imitated by other universities. 
"The program is important in the sense that it allows us to help better prepare our students for a more diverse society, and also we hope that we will be able to use our program as a model for other business schools across the country," she said. 
Pro Shop Hours 
Sat-Sun 6:00 -5:00 Mon-Fri 6:30 -5:00 

VISIT OUR PRO SHOP IN THE 
ROCKNE MEMORIAL 
dlscusses issues 
from the Residence Life Committee. 
The first resolution urged Security to make the Lyons Hall basketball courts more accessi­ble for student recreational use by limiting faculty and staff 
. parking on the courts at night ·and on the weekends. 
The second resolution most ditec,ly concerns Dillon. Alumni, Keenan, Stanford, Zahifi and St. Edward's Hall residents. who have no laundry facilities in their dormitories. 
"Be it resolved that the Student Senate urges the Office of Student Affairs to request that the Office of Facilities, Engineering and Maintenance develop a plan of action to ensure that laundry facilities be installed in the aforementioned dorms," the resolution reads. 
Three issues underlie the reqU¢$t; the .. resolution's dr .s explained. First, ad cilities addresses a ills .. . .... inequality issue between men's and women's dorms: Second. additional facil­ities would ease the burden on women's laundry facilities which (!re often used by men; and third, there is overwhelm­ing.support for the changes, Szaboreported. 
"This is a very good propos­al,'' Keenan senator Matt .~amak told the senate prior to its un~nimous vote of approval. Assistant student body trea­surer Ryan Harding asked the sana~ . pport in approving 
!he§ ... ·.. project's coordinator, Jolm Maus. A report Harding distributed to the senate showed that under Maus' man­agement shirt profits have increased $200,000 over the previous year. Of the 50,015 shirts ordered for the fall foot­ball season. 47,515 have been ~wid for a net income of $273,056. 
· Mans was reapproved unani­mously by the senate. 
In keeping with his adminis­tration's< goal of making stu­dent.go~ernifient entertaining, senate chairman Erek Nass 
·introduced a witty variation of pin the tail on.the donkey for senators to play after the meet· ing; l'Pin the blame on Erek, Matt and Mary" drew laughs from the s{lnators. 
Amid costumed senators and candy distribution. Student St.Jnate managed to look past Halloween and consider three issues during last night's meet­in ·• dining hall serving. S<lhed­
laundry ln men's resi­halls and improvements Lyons basketball courts, 
ining. halls will be open for hll1ch one-half hour later, until )~ p.m;~ beginning with the next semester, Residence Life Committee members announced. Following a Tuesday meeting with director of food services David Prentkowski, committee mem­bers had a betterunderstand­ij:ig of how changes are made ill dining hall policies. 
· · "The biggest thing that ~:;arne ourmeeting with them is ~e~ll}'~ant tqwo!k ~mse .•issues;~:. ~9tt a~pt .•.· Matt TomkO , ~·Fop(i Services cam:e er break with a lot of 
arch and realized there alot ot demand for push. ack lunch's ·end·time." 
... derlining that commit~ rii~rtt. Prentkowski shared a · ofstatistics to explain to 
ots why Food Services ":ould agree to the expandl:ld l timl:l. 
tvlo~days, Wednesdays 
:ridays, 2,100.students ~ss. at lt~Q .p.m.,, just ~~.h c4~~~J1tly ~loses; y s~natcir Matt. Szabo. 
d td th~ senate. Two~ tli~~sand stndehts get out ot Class.at 1:45 p.m. on Tuesdays and Thursdays; Three hundred to 400 students get grab-and­go lunches between 1:30 and 2 
p,m~ 

Tomko and Szabo also 
relayed Food Services concerns with recurring pranks in North Dining Hall. Pranksters baking ·· parmesan cheese to produce foul odors have caused $10,000 
o al"nage to toastl:lrs an~ nUcr.ow··aves. the senate learnild. · ~:J'Ji~t<:;ornes (}Ut.of our room arid board expenses< .•.so tell y.onr<.constituents," Tomko 
n~quested; 

Student Senate also passed 
resolutions originating 
Every Thursday 
AU-You-Can-Eat 
Pizza & Pasta 
~"~~~\ for $5.oo 0 ~'\.q 30 m •
':~~~ •6:00p.m. -8: P· . 
• ~~ t' ns for friday & Saturday
Taking reserva JO 
-----~-----~­
page 4 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, October 30, 1997 
cators that the times are changing and traditional jour­




Street
Notre Dame steady as 


Storin 

nalism is returning to the forefront. These movements 
continued from page 1continued from page 1 
include: The American Society 
stock market tumbles
of Newspaper Editors, the 
a.m., following a welcomesense of arrogance. 
Freedom Forum, The 
from Carolyn Wu, dean ofYet cynicism and arrogance 
Committee of Concerned the College of Business
By DEREK BETCHER real estate and other instru­
aren't the only factors con­Journalists, and the growing 
Administration at 10 a.m.
Associate News Editor ments, he noted.
tributing to the decline of the public journalism movement. 
The second part, begin­"Certainly, our position is very press, Storin said. He also 
The American Society of 
ning at 1 p.m., will be anMonday's plunge in the stock long term in nature and weattributed three other factors Newspaper Editors is a three­
introduction to starting a
market did not significantly favor equities, although we'reto a decrease in "readership, year project aimed at restor­
Wall Street career,
affect Notre Dame's invest­very diversified," Malpass said ..
viewership, and listenership." 
ing the credibility of the press. 
including presentations onments and may actually have Market analysts note thatThe first factor is the belief The Freedom Forum has insti­
how to prepare for work
offered the University a chance crashes can present bargains in
that there is less news now 
tuted a detailed study of the 
on Wall Street. how to
to advance its financial position, the form of devalued stocks,than there was a few decades 
fairness of the media. The apply for jobs there. and
according to associate vice­and strong, long-term investors ago. 
Committee of Concerned 
what to expect at the
president for finance Scott can often realize gains by pick­"New and exciting develop­
Journalists is conducting, "a 
beginning of a Wall StreetMalpas.s, the man responsible ing up discarded equities. Inments are occurring everyday, set of national forums to dis­career.
for overseeing Notre Dame's fact, private managers of Notre
yet Washington, D.C., has cuss journalistic practices," 
"The second part is just$1.4 billion endowment. Dame's endowment may havebecome less meaningful and and public journalism is "jour­the nuts and bolts infor­Malpass emphasized'Notre helped play a role in Tuesday'sinteresting," Storin said. 
nalism which attempts to 
mation that students can
Dame is an investor, not a spec­record 337-point resurgence. 
Secondly, Storin asserted solve community problems," 
use immediately," said
ulator, and is therefore not "Sev(lral of our mangers look
that the increased access to 
Storin explained. 

Duke. "It will give themaffected by short-term fluctua­at this as a buying opportunity, news through technology has 
These four organizations 
information about subjectstions, Furthermore, its holdings and we have been increasingmade classic news less read­and movements are only the 
such as interviews and
are spread across stocks, bonds, our position," Malpass said. 
able. 

beginning of the attempt to 
internships."

"Multiplicity of the news restore traditional values of 
media has resulted in less readership," Storin said. 
This diversification of the news media and the increase in access has also resulted in a "fragmentation of the infor­mation world," Storin explained, reminding the audience that the media mar­ket is much more competitive that it used to be. 
Instead of one all-news sta­tion, cable television now car­ries three, he said. This frag­mentation limits that amount of resources each branch receives, which inevitably results in less readership and viewership. 
As the third factor in the decrease in readership, Storin stated that "interest in partic­ipatory democracy has also dwindled." Fewer people care about what is going on, and this apathetic attitude is evi­dent in the votership decline, he explained. 
Although Storin emphasized numerous negative factors in modern journalism, he also pointed to the efforts of four principle movements as indi­
journalism to the current press, he added. 
Storin applauded the efforts of the University and its cre­ation of the "Notre Dame Program in Journalism, Ethics and Democracy," which emphasizes an understanding of society and its diversity. 
Storin said that programs like Notre Dame's future jour­nalism concentration are cru­cial to the restoration of val­ues to journalism. 
He concluded by challenging young and ambitious journal­ists to continue the move­ments that emphasize tradi­tional values. 
"It is the present generation who will determine whether journalism survives," Storin asserted. 
Storin has served as editor for the Boston Globe for the past five years. He has also served as executive editor of the New York Daily News, senior vice president of the Chicago Sun Times, and deputy managing editor of 
U.S. News and World Report. 


Stock 

continued from page 1 
perspective on the Dow's cur­rent swings; A 550-point move in 1997's surging markets, while significant, would pale in comparison to a similar total in an earlier era. The infamous Black Tuesday crash of 1929, for example, was a 30-point fall. 
"Dollar magnitude doesn't matter as much as relative magnitude," Sheehan empha­sized. "Sure, there's a lot more money being lost in today's volatility, but the pool is so much bigger." 
Before succumbing to sensa­tionalism surrounding this week's drop, onlookers should note that the fall was only his­tory's 12th largest in terms of percent change. Furthermore, current fluctuations are occurring amidst a historic bullish market. Monday's loss­es were more than offset by this summer's gains. 
"The markets are very 
M&rffi.CID))~ ~IhlCID~ m~JP• 
Over 40 years ol experience Ortho..Specialist Fix any type leather Quick Service .. Reasonable 
Open: 8,6 Mon,Fri 8,3 Sat 1025 E.Madison St. 288,6211 
r-----------------~~ 
Notre Dame ~ 
"< 
Mcuio's---· 


THURSDAY 
OcTOBER 30 
4: IS PM LAw ScHOOL CouRT RooM 


volatile at the moment, but not nearly as volatile as the public thinks," department of finance chairman John Affleck-Graves said. The financial system, he pointed out, currently enjoys good health and can absorb short­term losses without ill effects. One-point-two billion shares were traded Tuesday "without a hiccup," Affleck-Graves noted, as the market enjoyed its largest incremental gain ever, rising 377 points. When sellers can find buyers that easily, he concluded, the mar­ket is functioning smoothly. 
In the final part. begin­ning at 2:30 p.m .. each firm's representative will lead a separate session to discuss that firm's career opportunities and work environment. 
Many of the company executives are Notre Damn alums. "We have had great interest from a group of enthusiastic Notre Dame alums currently working on Wall Street," said Duke. "They have been acting as our counselors and advi­sors in planning this forum." 

The University ofNotre Dame International Study Program at 
Notre Dame Australia 
Information Meeting With Professor Michael Etzel Fr. Wilson Miscamble, C.S.C. 
Professor Clive Neal 
Tuesday, November 4, 1997 102 DeBarwlo 4:45-5:45 PM 
APPLICATION DEADLINE 
• -7·11 

FALL 1998, SPRING 1999: DECEMBER I, 1997
1025 E.Madison St. 

AT&T Summer Internship Program 
Why an AT&T Internship? 
• 
Internal exposure to the global leader in the telecommunications industry 

• 
First consideration for AT&T's Financial Leadership Program (FLP) 


• Structured program that includes:  
Professional Development Seminars  Senior Management Presentations  
Formal Objectives and Appraisals  Networking Events  
Social Gatherings  Community Service Projects  
• Challenging assignments  
• Experience in a Fortune 500 Corporation  

Job Description 
Requirements Location 





ATQT When 
Entry-level management positions Project & team oriented assignments Well defined goals and objectives 
Junior Accounting & Finance Majors Overall GPA of 3.5+ preferred; 3.0 minimum 
Majority of positions in New Jersey (Housing Assistance Available) 
On Campus Interviews are Tuesday December 2nd at Career & Placement Resume drop is Monday & Tuesday, November 3rd & 4th at Career & Placement 



--...-----~--~-~--­
Thursday, October 30, 1997 
Halloween, spirit hits Saint Mary's students 
BySHANA'E TATE News Writer 
Tlw Saint Mary's students displayed their I Ialloween spir­it with the numerous activites this past w~ek. The students participated in various events such as La Casa students trick­or-treating in LeMans Hall to the Murder Mystery in Haggar Parlor. 
Last evening, scary music coming from the Nobles Family Oining !!all did not scare Saint Mary's students away. The dining hall had everything from caramel apples to frosted sugar cookies. The majority of the staff working last night wore festive costumes. 
"It was a nice to have some­thing different other the nor­mal cafeteria food. It was fun to see everyone getting in the halloween spirit," said Sybil Sullivan. 
The Saint Mary's Student Activites Board sponsored many events this past week. Beginning Monday, SAB posted the first clue to its Murder Mystery. The question to answer was "Who killed Teresa Marcy?" A total of three clues were given and yesterday the killer was revealed. 
"We [SAB] have had a lot of fun planning this event. Our committee has helped out in many ways and we worked well together," said Nicole Kraimer, SAB tradition co­chairwoman. 
"I don't think any of the sus­pects did it [murdered Teresa Marcy]. I think my RA did it," said Michelle Johnson. However. the so-called mur­derer was revealed to every­one as "Evelyn," the dining hall checker. 
"I am very happy a lot people came to the event. We put a lot of time into the planning and Saint Mary's is taking advan­tage of SAB," said Anne Parente, SAB tradition co­chairwoman. 
The winners of the murder mystery won a variety of gift certificates from surrounding area restaurants. 
----~---~ -~ ~ ~----_.----_,.-----~-----­
James Carroll, a novelist and salvation were central causes of author ofa ro••<>r•thi ..,.... v ....~~·~ 
theHolocaust. memoir entitled A .National Book A\;)'~rd win• Requiem;" will nen Carrolll$ the author of American several works of nonfiction and Catholicism nine novels including in the 1950s ·~Madonna Red," . "Mortal and 1960s Frh~nds," "Ptihce of Peace;" tomorrow at "Memorial Bridge,'' and "The 
4:15 p.m. in City Below."Ile is aformer the CCE columnist fpr the. National auditorium. Catholic Reporter, and he has 
Carroll was also published essays and tc~e stub oyf reviews in theNewYorkTimes,
0~v·e~t IL L 
vn r ..,r5 . •. ....•. thel;~s~gel~s:pmesl"eNew
last spring when his articl¢'Jn. ' Republic, and the Atlantic the New Yorker argued that tlie Monthly. Catholic doctrine of papal ir;(il; C~t.roll wasborn in. Chicago 
SMC explores environmental racism 
page 5 


H·bilcism 
1943 and .. raised in Washington, D.C., where his father, an Air Force general, served as director of the Defenseintelligence Agency. He attended Georgetown University before entering the Paulist Father's seminary at Catholic University in Washington, and was ordained a priest in 1969. After his ordi­nation he served as a chaplain at Boston University for five years before leaving the priest­hood. 
Carroll's lecture, which is free and open to. the public, is sponsored by the Cushwa Cente.J;" for the Study of American Catholicism. 
Beginning in the early 1980s, 
the movement began to gain 
attention when the state of 
North Carolina declared its 
intention to dump PCBs in a 
toxic waste landfill in Warren 
County, a predominantly 
African-American area. 
Protesters were unsuccessful in 
their attempt to halt the dump­
ing of the toxic waste but 
focused attention on the issue of 
pollution in minority communi­
ties, which created a grassroots 
effort that spread throughout the 
nation, the video said. 

Another example of a commu­
nity battling environmental racism was that of Kettleman City, Calif., a city that is 95 per­. cent Mexican-American. The Chemical Waste Management company sought to build a toxic waste incinerator in the area, which is largely agricultural, but was stopped in its attempts when citizens mobilized in an effort to stop the building of the ineinerator, the video said. The company gave up its fight to build the incinerator but only after much controversy and a 
lawsuit had been filed. 

Following the video, Maria 
Oropeza, interim director of the 
Office of Multicultural Affairs, 
gave her thoughts on the sub­
ject. 

"We need to remember that 
the issue of environmental 
racism is not a new one. It has 
been occurring in our country 
for centuries," Oropeza said. She 
added that environmental 
racism afl"ects everyone because 
people interact with these com­
munities in many ways, includ­
ing buying the produce farmed 
in the areas where the toxic 
dumping is occurring. 

Speaking next was Joe Miller 
of the psychology department. 
Miller sought to emphasize that 
environmental racism is a mul­
tiracial and multicultural effort. 
"The movement says that toxic 
waste dumps should be eliminat­
ed altogether, not moved from 
minority to white areas," Miller 
stated. "The corporations are 
taking the path of least resis­
tance by targeting minority 
areas." 

Tysus Jackson, a junior at 
SMC, said, "I believe this is envi­
ronmental racism. These people 
don't have the choice to move 
out of these areas, and this is 
what these companies prey on." 
By COLLEEN McCARTHY 
News Writer 

Calling attention to the prob­lem of another and lesser known kind of racism was the purpose of a video and the ensuing dis­cussion on environmental racism that featured Saint Mary's facul­ty as well as the interim director of the Office of Multicultural Affairs. 
The video, "Environmental Racism," chronicled and described the ascent of the movement that focuses on the dumping of toxic waste and pol­lution specifically in minority areas and the fact that these areas benefit least from govern­ment clean up efforts. Reverend Benjamin Chavis first used the term "environmental racism" in a 1987 report on the subject. 

--~-----------~~---~---­
I 
----~------~~-------~--~--­
I 
I 
! 
! 
The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT Thursday, October 30, 1997 
Calendar of Events 
Folk Choir Concert for the Missions 
Saturday, November 1 7:30p.m. Basilica 
Misa en Espanol -Spanish Mass 
Sunday, November 2 

1:30 p.m. Stanford-K$er)an Chapel Celebrante: Padre David Scheidler, c.s.c 
Tuesday, Novemb~r4 7:30p.m. Basilic 
Campus Bible 
Tuesdays 7:00p.m 

Thirty-First Sunday in Ordinary Time 
Weekend Presiders 
at Sacred Heart Basilica Saturday, Nov. 1 

half hour after game Rev. Richard Bullene, C.S.C. 
Sunday, Nov. 2 

8:00am Rev. Thomas Streit, C.S.C 
10:00 am 
Rev. Daniel Jenky, C.S.C 
11:45 am Rev. James Lies, D.O. 
at Stepan Center Saturday, Nov. 1 


45 minutes after game Rev. James Foster, C.S.C. 
at Keenan-stanford Chapel of the Holy Cross Saturday, Nov. 1 
half hour after game 
Sunday, Nov. 2 

12:00 noon Rev. Thomas Gaughan, C.S.C. 
Vespers Sunday, Nov. 2 
7:15p.m. Rev. John Conley, C.S.C 


Scripture Readings 

1st Reading  Daniel  12:1-3  
2nd Reading  Romans  6:3-11  
Gospel  John  11:1-45  




Called From Among Us 
The Appointment of Bishop-Elect Daniel R. Jenky, C.S.C. 
On Tuesday during the week of Fall break, Pope John Paul II appointed the rector of the Basilica of the Sacred Heart and the co-rector of Fisher Graduate Residences, Daniel R. Jenky, C.S.C., as auxiliary bishop of the Diocese of Fort Wayne-South Bend. In that capacity, Bishop Jenky will be rector of St. Matthew's Co-Cathedral in South Bend. In addition, he will have many other responsibilities with the diocese and as the newest member of the National Conference of Catholic Bishops. He will be ordained a bishop at St. Matthew's Cathedral on December 16, 1997. 
Like my brothers in Holy Cross, especially those of us who have worked side by side with Dan in our ministry at Notre Dame, and like Bishop Jenky's family and many friends, I am thrilled about his appoint­ment. He will be a wonderful bishop, just as he has been a remarkable Holy Cross priest whose life-giving ministry has benefited and been wel­comed by thousands of people. 
Our new bishop is first and foremost a man of prayer. People on our campus have come to know him during his nineteen years as rector of the Basilica as a preacher whose homilies are as down to earth as they are challenging calls to deepen our personal commitment to Christ. You could often see him praying in the Basilica, reading his breviaty as he par­ticipated in this traditional prayer for the Church and God's people which is a priest's responsibility and privilege, and worshiping Jesus Christ dur­ing the Friday afternoon periods of Eucharistic Adoration in the Basilica. 
He is also a person who loves the Church, and treasures his mem­bership in the Congregation of Holy Cross which he has served well since he entered the community at the age of eighteen. 
Bishop-elect Jenky is among the brightest and most personable members of our community. He is a great friend of many of us. To sit with him at meals at Corby Hall has always been a special pleasure! 
Although he remains a Holy Cross religious, even after his ordina­tion as a bishop, we will miss our daily contact with him on campus. 
He is a man of intelligence, who is well read and who has spent countless hours in the confessional, in the pulpit, at the altar and in indi­vidual sessions of counseling and spiritual direction. 
What will happen to our brother on December 16 is that through ancient rites and traditions of the Catholic Church, many of his fellow bishops will place their hands on his head as a sign of his being chosen for this new office in service to God's people. He will become one of a privileged and blessed few who are chosen to be intimate collaborators of the Holy Father. With his brother bishops, and with priests and lay peo­ple, he will work conscientiously to build up God's Kingdom and pro­claim the Gospel of Jesus Christ. 
He will paricipate in the long and unbroken line of apostolic suc­cession by which the first men Jesus Christ chose to continue his mission through their ministry are succeeded by others throughout human histo­ry. 
This awesome call will be symbolized when fellow bishops hold the Book of the Gospels about his shoulders. It is powerfully reminiscent of the cross which was placed on the shoulders of Jesus Christ. Bishop­elect Jenky will ordain many men, most of them, I hope, fellow members of the Congregation of Holy Cross, to take up the ministry of priesthood. His ordination represents another link in an unbroken chain which repre­sents the promise Jesus made to be present always among his people, especially through the celebration of the sacrifice of the Mass, through sacramental ministry and through a continuation of the preaching of the Good News. 
Bishop-elect Jenky's appointment is a sign of the Holy Father's con­fidence in him. It is also an effective way in which the Pope has provided Bishop D'Arcy with an assistant bishop and the people of the Diocese with a spiritual leader who is a good person and a committed priest. 
Congratulations and best wishes always, Dan. It will be my privi­lege to mention you by name at every Mass I celebrate in our diocese dur­ing the Canon of the Mass when we pray "for our bishop, John, and his assistant bishop, Daniel." 
Thank you for your willingness to serve the Church and God's people as you begin your new service of apostolic ministry. Richard V. Warner, C.S.C. 

Q\MPUS MINISTRY 

Saint Mary's learns about service ang
.}t~:· 

good time for the volunteer and service work to be empha­sized, because of the new president. 
"[President Marilou] Eldred," Kors said, "is going to the fac­ulty from various departments to seek possible internships with the classes for students of all backgrounds." 
Future ideas to further this idea of community service internships would be that of working closely with the facul­ty members and seeing where community service could be applied to academic studies, regardless of subject area. 
Three ideas Kors believes would be extremely beneficial in incorporating service-ori­ented activities into the cur­riculum at Saint Mary's are finding the various heads of the departments, what they do within the departments, and determining how they could work together with the South Bend community. 

rights 
said ~he action sary to preserve political stability." 
Clinton replied: ~I be obvious to wetfiave a very different of the meaning of the'events in Tiananmen Square. I believe that what happened and the aftermath and the continuing reluctance to tolerate political dissent has kept China from politically developing the level of support 
the t¢st of the world that otherwise would have been developed.'' 
Both l13aders said they dis­cussed !tl,.great detail specific 
.·!(lases b{jailed dissidents. "I am th~ president of the People's Republic of China, not the chief judge of the Supreme Court," Jiang said. 
Happy 21st Birthday 
~daJu~ 
oUPA?eaP/. 
:6o-oe. 

~o-nz. !!l!aa( §;ec/ 1./J&J ~s/. tV~d 
Presented by 
Tom Valdiserri & ~ Scott Paddock\:IJ of Sports Partners· in Chicago 
*Sports Partners' experience includes the CompUSA Citms Bowl, NBA All-Star Weekend, FOX Sports Major League Baseball, and the PGA Championship. 
Sponsored by the 
Thursday, 

Undergraduate Marketing 
October 30th
Club 


4:00 p.m. 161 COBA 
All are welcome to attend! 
By P. COLLEEN NUGENT 
Associate Saint Mary's News Editor 
Last night, Saint Mary's College held an informational session on community service availabilities within the South Bend area. LeMans Lobby was the center of attention, where representatives from various community service programs came to the College to encourage students in their efforts on helping the less for­tunate within their own soci­ety. 
The newly hired director of the Community Service lkpartment at Saint Mary's is Sister Linda Kors. Kors' goal is "to encourage students to become more culturally aware of the differences that exist within our own communities, including that of South Bend." 
Nearly 20 local agencies wcro present at the cvont, pro­viding various handouts to inform the students. Although the program is in its first year, there are many high expecta­tions for the student turnout. 
According to Kors, orienta­tion weekend produced a large number of current freshmen interested in participating in service-oriented programs. Nearly 150 students showed interest in volunteering, and Kors is optimistic that if the freshman turnout rate is high, then the entire student body will also have a successful turnout rate. 
"Sign-up sheets wet:e located throughout the lobby," stated Kors. "We have high hopes for the success rate for this pro­gram." 
Head Start, Story Book Festival, and the SURV Office are just a few of the many places where students can vol­unteer. 
"The sisters of Holy Cross hold a deep interest in volun­teering," stated Kors. 
Kors stressed that this was a 
!box to fu< ourbroken souls~ 
•l(ushner gives us • too . 

-SilnDiego Uni.,-Trihut~t 
i< 
How Good DoWe Have to Be? 
ANeW Understanding of Guilt and Forgiveness 
Harold S.Kushner 
Author of 
Whtn BadThing. Happ<n to Gocd People 
Available at: 


THE HAMMES NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE 
"On the Campus" Phone: 631-6316 
www.ndbookstore.com 

----~-~---~ ~~ ----~~-~­
----------___,.. ~--­
page 8 
•ANGOLA 

UN giy-e~:tigo-ahe.c:td :~. sanctions against UNITA 

Associated Press 

UNITED NATIONS 
Frustrated with delays in the Angolan peace process; the Security Council gave the go­ahead Wednesday for air and travel sanctions against the former rebel movement 
UNIT A 

The resolution, drafted by the United States, Russia and Portugal, depl()red UNI'fA's failure to meet with its obliga­tions, including disarming fighters and integrating them into a nationalatmy. 
The sanctions, which also include the closing of UNITA offices abroad, go into effect Thursday. . · 
The council illso unanimous­ly accepted a recommendation by Secretary~General Kofi Annan to keep about 3,000 
U.N. peacekeepers in the southwest African country until Jan. 30. The council also expressed "grave concern" about the presence. of Angolan government forces in the Republic of Congo and called on all foreign forces to with­draw immediate~y. 
In Washington, Sen. Jesse Helms. chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, denounced the sanctions against UNITA;i 
Instead, sanctions should have been imposed on the gov­ernment instead, for the "bla· tant" intervention \~fit the Republic of Congo, hesaid. 
The resolution banned all flights that depart fr?~ ~~ola ·or are due ttrlat!d:there, except for those locations des­ignated hy the Angolan govern­m~nt; That me(l$l)re is ii;imed at preventil'ig UNITAtrqm pur­chasing weapons and then fly­ing them into territory it still controls. 
UNlTA ea.r.ns htin~i,r~d s .tlf millions of dollars by exporting diamonds and uses much of 
the revenue 
to
buy ""-"''''"'"·'''""'' 
IJNITA is .• ft.om purchasing parts, flight insur engineering services. Aviation 
eqll~}.lment m<l-Y enter 1?gola only through government­approved entry points. · 
The U.N. sanctions commit· tee must approve any ~~emp­tions for hj.lmanitarian d¢liver~ ies. 
The sanctions were approved in August but suspended to g\ye UNITA time to./fulfql demands under 1994 Lusaka peace accords, which ended two decades of civil war> . .rn~993 tli¢S~~urity: £?l1llcil imposed a,iijls and oil ernbar• goes on UNITA but with little effect. A 1994 peace agree­
.nient w11s signed in J,;!l!~l!ka, Zambia; to end a col1tlict that devastated Angola after inde­pendence from Portugal in 1975. 
• iNDIANA UNIVERSITY 

IU expels Zeta Beta Tau for racy scavenger hunt 
Associated Press 

BLOOMINGTON, Ind. 
Indiana University expelled a fraternity Wednesday for sending pledges on a scav­enger hunt for photos of "2 chicks kissing" and "any funny-lookin' Mexican." 
"This action is not taken lightly," said Dean of Students Richard McKaig, adding that the expulsion -the harshest punishment available -was necessary to show the behav­ior won't be tolerated. 
The Zeta Beta Tau chapter was earlier suspended by its national headquarters. The chapter president had apolo­gized and asked f.ellow stu­dents to give the historically Jewish fraternity another chance. 
The Oct. 15 scavenger hunt required new fraternity mem-
BOOK SEARCH 
• 
Used, rare and out-of-print books 

• 
Initial cost of $2.00 

• 
Nationally-circulated ad 

• 
Success rate of 50% 

• 
Time Required: 2 months 


ERASMUS BOOKS 
Open noon to six Tuesday through Sunday 1027 E. Wayne South Bend, IN 46617 (219) 232-8444 

hers to search for 22 items, including photos of "2 chicks kissing (less clothes, more credit)," a midget, and "any funny-lookin' Mexican." 
Police found the list when they arrested nine pledges on charges of stealing a street sign. 
McKaig has not determined when the fraternity could apply to come back to the campus. 
~ -------­

The Observer • NEWS Thursday, October 30, 1997 




Kaczynski papers admit violence 
Associated Press 

SACRAMENTO, Calif. 
In papers found in his Montana cabin, Theodore Kaczynski admitted committing "non-bombing acts of violence," prosecutors said in documents filed Wednesday. 
The government did not say what the acts of violence were. Justice Department spokes­woman Leesa Brown said she could not release any informa­tion. 
A federal law enforcement source who spoke on condition of anonymity, however, said the acts were serious and have never been made public. 
Defense attorney Quin Denvir said the prosecution was refer­ring to "some acts of vandalism which we don't feel have any place in this trial," and that Kaczynski committed when he was much younger. 
"Mr. Kaczynski is on trial for allegedly committing four acts involving the placing of bombs," Denvir said. "These vandalism acts are irrelevant." 
The government tiled the doc­uments Wednesday in an attempt to use Kaczynski's writ­ings as evidence that he was responsible for bombings he has not been charged with and that he intended to hurt people. 
Such evidence 'could help counter a possible insanity defense. Kaczynski's lawyers have indicated they may argue that he sufl'ered from paranoid schizophrenia. 
"The defendant's decision to put his mental condition at issue makes highly relevant his admissions to committing the non-bombing acts of violence," said the brief by prosecutors Robert Cleary and Douglas Wilson. 
The papers found in cabin when he was arrested in April 1996 "contain express state­ments of the defendant's intent to kill and the reasons why he sought to kill," prosecutors say. 
"The admissions show the incnm1ental deVf~lopment of the defendant's intent to kill and thus tend to show that his intent grew out of defendant's hatred and antisocial preoccupations," the brief said. 
The 5th Annual Emil T. Hofman, Ph.D. Lecture University of Notre Dame, Alumni Association & Saint .Joseph's Medical Center Present: 
THE IMPAIRED PHYSICIAN: How Do We Confront This Problem? 
featuring 

Lynn R. Hankes, M.D., '58 
Director Washington Physicians Health Department Clinical Associate Professor, Department of Psychiatry and Behavioral Sciences, University of Washington Seattle, Washington 
Impairment among physicians manifests itselfin many ways. Dr. Hankes will explore physician distress in this unprecedented period ofupheaval within the profession. 
IO:OO AM-II:30 AM NovEMBER r, 1997 BEFORE THE NAVY-ND GAME.) ENGINEERING AUDITORIUM, OTRE DAME UNIVERSITY 


uFrankenstein" (1931) 
and "~e:rLa_:m." 
OCTOBER 31, 9:00PM LAFORTUNE STUDENT CENTER BALLROOM 
•FREE ADMISSION & FOOD • FREE TREAT BAGS TO THE FIRST 100 STUDENTS• 
[D®m~Lr rJ®~®[31111® ~~om® ~®oo~ Q)O~~®M~ DJm[D ~~DJm~[31J~g 
~---·~·-~------­
Thursday, October 30, 1997 The Observer • INTERNATIONAL NEWS page 9 

•IRAQ 
Baghdad bars Americans from U.N. teams 
Associated Press news agency, Aziz said there end of the 1991 Persian Gulf inspectors. 
were 700 Americans working War and has refused to lift eco­Earlier today, Bill 
BAGHDAD, Iraq for the U.N. Special nomic sanctions imposed after Richardson, the U.N. ambas­
Iraq today barred Americans Commission. which supervises Iraq's 1990 invasion of Kuwait sador to the United Nations, from U.N. weapon inspection the elimination of Iraqi until Iraq complies. again warned Iraq not to flout teams and gave them a week to weapons and the monitoring of The Iraqi statement, howev­the U.N. resolutions. leave the country. Hours earli­its arms sites. er, does not appear to be a "There would be very nega­er, the United States warned The commission now has 100 fresh rejection of the no-fly tive consequences for Iraq if Iraq against flouting U.N. reso­foreign employees in Baghdad, zone also imposed at the end of they continued this pattern of lutions aimed at forcing according to the United the war. The United States and obfuscation and disobeying Saddam Hussein to destroy Nations. its allies patrol the zone, and U.N. Security Council resolu­weapons of mass destruction. Ten of the 40 weapons U.S. planes also provide aerial tions," he said at U.N. 
The Hevolution Command inspectors in that group are photos to U.N. weapons inspec­European headquarters in Council. Iraq's main decision­American. Iraq's ban also tors. Geneva. making body, also said it is ask­affects.the American deputy Nizar Hamdoon, Iraq's The Security Council, which ing the United Nations to stop chairman of the commission, ambassador to the United oversees the inspection pro­using U.S. reconnaissance Charles Duelfer, and the chief Nations, said Baghdad's order gram, was to meet later todayplanes to monitor compliance of operations, Lt. Col. John would bar Duelfer from visiting to discuss the Iraqi decision, with the resolutions on elimi­Moore. Baghdad on Nov. 7. He was to which was to take effect at 5 nating the weapons. "This is completely unaccept­accompany the Australian chief p.m. EST. 
There was no immeditate able," the British Foreign Office inspector, Richard Butler. Richardson was not available comment from the United said in a statement. "It is not "Iraq is in no way opting for for comment after Iraq's latest States. for Iraq to dictate who should any confrontation," Hamdoon, announcement. 
Deputy Prime Minister Tariq be in U.N. teams." told reporters in New York. The Iraqi council also said Aziz said Iraq wants the The weapons inspectors are "We'll have to deal with the sit­today that it will not recognizeAmericans out until the United trying to verify whether Iraq uation as it evolves." Friday's warning on the travel States "reconsiders its oppres­has complied with U.N. orders Iraq's moves followed a ban. But the council said it sive polky and its aggressive to destroy long-range missiles, Security Council threat last would continue to cooperate behavior to the people of Iraq, as well as chemical, biological Friday to impose more restric­with the U.N. inspectors "in a and its policy of espionage and and nuclear arms. tions, including a ban on some manner respecting Iraq's sover­intervention." The Security Council ordered Iraqi officials traveling abroad, eignty, national security and 
In a statement to the official the weapons destroyed at the unless Iraq cooperates with the dignity." 
WE'RE AN EQUAL OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER WITH UNEQUALED OPPORTUNITIES FOR EMPLOYMENT. 
Lawmakers support Iran opposition 
Associated Press 

LONDON 
Lawmakers from 15 coun­tries including 225 Americans -have signed statements supporting the Iranian opposition's umbrella organization, whose largest faction has been declared a terrorist group by the United States. 
Several of the 2,000 lawmak­ers said they were surprised Wednesday at Washington's action against a group that they argue is fighting to end Iranian repression at home and terrorism abroad -and to institute democratic govern­ment and human rights. 
One of them, Lennart Frieden of Sweden's Liberal Party, said he believes the Clinton administration has softened its position against dictatorial regimes in Iran, China and elsewhere to pro­mote U.S. trade. 
"That's the sad thing -you start with good principles and good foreign policy, and you end up with a trade policy and no ethical principles," he said. 
Support from the lawmakers for a global initiative against Iran's Islamic government was announced at a seminar spon­sored by the Paris-based National Council of Resistance of Iran, an umbrella body unit­ing Iran's diverse opposition groups. 
Its largest faction, the Mujahedeen Khalq, which has fought since the early 1980s to overthrow Iran's Islamic regime, was designated a ter­rorist group last month by Secretary of State Madeleine Albright. 
All assets of the 30 organiza­tions on the U.S. terrorist list have been frozen and it is a crime to provide money, weapons or other tangible sup­port to them. 
The Mujahedeen Khalq, formed in 1965, originally struggled against the U.S.­backed Shah of Iran and was accused of killing some U.S. military contractors employed by his government in the 1970s. 
Mohammad Mohaddessin, chairman of the National Council's foreign affairs com­mittee, said the 2,000 parlia­mentarians who support the Iranian resistance "have shown that principles come before trade." 
Support for the National Council's campaign against Iran came from more than half the lawmakers in the U.S. House of Representatives, as well as from Britain's House of Commons and parliaments in Italy, Norway, Switzerland and Luxembourg, British Labor Party lawmaker Jeremy Corbett said. 
Lawmakers from Sweden, Denmark, the Netherlands, Australia, Germany, France, Belgium, Egypt and Jordan also backed the campaign, 
. along with deputies from the Palestinian Authority and the European Parliament. 
If you're majoring in computer science, data processing, accounting, auditing, math or law, contact your Placement Director for more information, or write to: Assistant Director, Corporate Human Resources. Three State Farm Plaza-Kl, Bloomington, Illinois 61791-0001. 
State Farm Insurance Companies • Home Offices: Blmmingron, Illinois • An Equal Opportunity Employer www.statefarm.Cl>m 


page 10 Thursday, October 30, 1997 
-----~------­






VIEWPOINT 
• POSTCARDS FROM MEXICO 
Celebrating the Dead, Mexican Style 

THE OBSERVER 
NoTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Norre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Norre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1997-98 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief 
Brad Prendergast 

Managing Editor Business Manager 
Jamie Heisler Tom Roland 
Assistant Managing Editor 

Dan Cichalski News Editor............................Heather Cocks Advertising Manager .............................. Jed Peters Viewpoint Editor ....................... Kelly Brooks Ad Design Manager ..................... Jennifer Breslow Sports Editor .................................. Mike Day Production Manager.......................Mark DeBoy Accent Editor...........................joey Crawford SY.tems Manager ............ Michael Brouillet Saint Mary's Editor ........................ Lori Allen Controller............................................ Kyle Carlin Photo Editor ........................... Katie Kroener 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration ofeither institution. The news is reponed as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represenr the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor. Sports Ediror, Accent EditOr, Saint Mary's Editor, Photo Editor, and Associate News Editor. Commentaries, \etters and Inside Columns present the views of the authors, and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's community and ro all readers. The free expression of varying opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 

Editor-in-Chief  631-4542  Business Office  631-5313  
Managing Editor  631-4541  Advertising  631-6900/8840  
News/Photo  631-5323  Systems  631-8839  
Sports  631-4543  Office Manager  631-7471  
Accent/Saint Mary's  631-4540  Fax  631-6927  
Day Editor/Viewpoint  631-5303  Viewpoint E-Mail  Viewpoint.! @nd.edu  
General Information  631-7471  Ad E-Mail  observer@darwin.cc.nd.edu  

~LL_ST. 
MEXICO CITY 

This week, while most people are busy fending off little rugrats decked out in skeleton, goblin and witch costumes, I am looking for bread. 
In the U.S., Halloween treats are M&M's, gum, apples, an occasional toothbrush from the overzealous dentist next door, and, on a good night, an 

Bernadette Pampuch 
entire Hershey's candy bar. 
In Mexico, we are getting ready to cel­ebrate the Day of the Dead, and the only thing I want is pan de muertos -bread of the dead. 
Not to be confused with Halloween, El Dia de los Muertos is a holiday in Mexico that many will begin celebrating this Thursday and Friday by setting up altars to the dead in their homes and placing offerings of flowers, fruits, can­dles and foods all around the table. 
Traditionally, the Day of the Dead is celebrated as an annual event to remember departed ancestors whose spirits visit the earth once each year. Oct. 2, All Saints' Day on the Catholic calendar and El Dia de los Muertos in Mexico, is a fusion of Catholic rituals and indigenous rites dating back to before the arrival of the Spanish in the New World. 
While the entire country is heavily Catholic, Mexico's Indian roots begin to show every fall when, on Oct. 30 and 31, altars in homes are prepared for the spirits of dead children returning to Earth. Los angelitos, little angels, are the first to return and toys, favorite foods, and candies are placed on minia­ture altars where th(' y will be easily found. One specialty placed on the altars is the pan de muertos, a sweet bread laced with eggs that is shaped into rab­bits, humans or skulls. 
Copal, an incense used by the Aztecs many years ago, is still used on altars during the Day of the Dead, joining tra­ditional marigolds in giving homes a dis­tinctively different scent. The aromas are consumed by the spirits of the dead, neither of which can be seen by those left here on Earth. · 
The day of the Dead is more than a Mexican Halloween. It is a series of days bound to an ancient agricultural society where the cycle of life and death was seen as a constant-reminder of the abili­ty of the dead to return to life. 
But both Halloween and El Dia de los Muertos share a few things in common, not the least of which is the image of skeletons. Common Halloween costumes in the U.S. are of black and white skele­tons with their bones all about, and drawings of skeletons have begun to appear all over store windows and busses in Mexico City this week. Mexican press artist Jose Guadalupe Posada, who died near the turn of the century, inspired the country with his caricatures of the rich and political depicted as skeletons, a tradition that has carried through until the present day. 
On the subway this week vendors are selling papers with poems dedicated to the President of the Republic, top busi­nessmen and soap opera stars, each and every one accompanied by a drawing of a skeleton bearing more than a striking resemblance to the real person. The most famous symbol of the Day of the Dead is Katarina, a skeleton wearing a plumed hat and dress from the Victorian era. 
While children in Indiana will be knocking door to door loq_king for candy, candy is being placed on altars in Mexico. Chocolate, another favorite of the Aztecs, is made into drinks or sweets and laid out next to pumpkin candy made from green pumpkins grown just for Day of the Dead. White skulls formed out of sugar are painted with the names of the dead, and everything is eaten or given away later, after the spirits have consumed what they need. 
Much like the South Bend tradition of becoming ragingly drunk on Halloween at Senior Bar, drinks left on the altars in Mexico consist of the dead's favorite drinks -pe-Colombian mescal and pulque (both alcoholic) and a drink made from corn called atole. Most important is a glass of water because spirits are tired after their long journey to Earth. 
Day of the Dead Celebrations are not limited to homes, but extend out to cemeteries where loved ones are buried. Entire families spend the day cleaning and repainting graves, decorating tomb­stones with flowers and lighting candles which will glow for an entire night. In the evening, mariachis and other musi­cians wander from gravcsite to gravesitc to play the favorite song of the person who has died. In another mix of indige­nous and Catholic traditions, priests will say prayers with each family in the cemetery. 

In South Bend, celebrating the Day of the Dead can be as easy as a simple prayer to a deceased family member or as complicated as constructing an altar. The huge Hispanic population of the city has brought with it some of the same Dia de los Muertos traditions, and in the past Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Alianza student organization has creat­ed altars and held prayer services at the Grotto and on campus. 
For those of you who can't find bread as easily as I can just by wandering the streets of Mexico City, I suggest contact­ing one of the Mexican bakeries on the west side of town, or contacting Alianza to find out more about the Day of the Dead. 
Bernadette Pampuch, SMC '97, is a graduate literature student in Mexico City this year with a scholarship from Rotary International. She can be reached by e-mail at bpampuch@hot­mail.com. Her column appears every other Thursday. 
The views in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
• DOONESBURY GARRY TRUDEAU 
50HA5 GINNY tut:u !AJ-IAT 
MYSf3(;Re{ AN
IJifi3N TALJ</NG 'vou 

YaJR ffAR. ar w " 8A77liR. /?&CIP!H AIWT/ZING A80UT 7H& /?!?,471-1 lHINK Of= AN!?A UJT COMIJI­CFAFFIRMAT/'.'&3 IT, aYa? OF !il,f/£itl.T/ NATION A? I 
I 

• fiUOTE OF THE DAY 
"After all, to make a beautiful omlet you have to break an egg." 
-Spanish Proverb 





VIEWPOINT
Thursday, October 30, 1997 page 11 
• TABLE TALK 
Sexual Frustration and the Days of Stir-Crazy 
Happy days are here again. If you didn't hear any sarcasm in what  Talking Gays Into Being Straight" (this series is also known as the "Magic Elixir  stronger .than the spirit of inclusion, stronger than popular affection for Ron  Before you try to visualize my last statement, answer me this: what do we  
I just said, take my word for it, it's there.  of Heterosexuality" series and is spon­ Powlus. It lives and breathes; it's been  have to fear?  
These are cruddy days; days when you leave your dorm room at eight in the morning a tired, cranky mess, smothered  sored by the Strake Foundation for Gullible Conservatives). However, much of Ashley's arguments against homosex­ forced into hiding, but it thrive!i at this school! Notre Dame students, whether they  People of this school have considered the issue of sex and have divided them­selves into three warring tribes, three  
in half a dozen shirts and sweatshirts  uality centered on the nature of  like it or not, are a pretty horny bunch.  very distinct groups of people, all of  
and the same pair of sweatpants you've  (straight) sexual intercourse, and the sig­ Think about it. If sexual frustration  whom despise each of the others.  
been wearing all week (the ones you  nificance of the act in relation to a  were a financial asset, student accounts  The first of these groups consists of  
forced yourself to put in the laundry,  healthy marriage.  would be paying us to come here. We've  those who have decided, either for rea­ 
only to dig them right back out again this  Ashley's statements about sex and sex­ got more tension, subtext, undercur­ sons of moraVreligious conviction or for  
morning).  uality recall another priest who spoke last year. I forget his name, but he talked  rents, and restrained passion than most schools have garbage cans. Take into  personal health/hygiene, to abstain from sex until marriage or some other post­ 
about how the modern focus on bringing  account the fact that sexual frustration  NO monogamous relationship. They most  
women to orgasm has led to an  has a mutating effect on your libido, and  often harbor a contempt for anyone with  
Mick  unhealthy emphasis on individual plea­sure, rather than continuing to aspire to higher ideals (such as premature ejacu­ you realize that this school is populated almost entirely by raving sexual lunatics. So why then do we "LIVE FOREVER"  a less meticulous regard for physical or religious well-being. The second group consists of people  
Swiney  lation). I introduce these examples not to criti­cize the sexual expertise of these priests,  at NO? The answer is simple; most Domers are locked into a perpetual death strug­ who pursue sexual activity with hedonist zeal, or who at least have no objections when it asserts itself in their lives. These  
but to remind any readers that sex has  gle between raging hormones and  people most often scorn members of the  
long been an issue on this campus,  uncommonly stringent Catholic upbring­ first group as antiquated and backwards,  
though many wish it weren't. In other  ings, and it appears that upbringings  close-minded and conservative.  
Okay. I admit I'm exaggerating a bit;  words, sex is,not my fault. It is here, it  have the undisputed advantage.  The last group is most prevalent  
even my life isn't that ... unsanitary.  But  was here before you started reading this  Consider: Why is it that most candi­ among the population of freshman males  
one way or another you have to agree  article, and it will be here long after  dates for R.A. who have a significant  and consists of those who have failed to  
that with the bout of cold weather earlier  qualify for the second group, and are  
this week comes the realization that the  
days of stir-crazy arc upon us.  I'm talk­ 
ing about the days when you don't feel  
like getting up and getting dressed and  
walking into an icy ethanol-smelling  
wind to go to classes where you cough,  
sneeze, and ultimately fall asleep learn­ 
ing nothing. The days that suck.  
Of course if you've been here a while  
none of this will come as any surprise to  
you. If you're new it'll sound like hell  
(probably because it is), but you'lllivc  
through it; most likely you'll be back to  
complain about it next year.  
None of this is the point. I'm actually  
concerned with another, far more signifi­ 
cant symptom of the early-winter misery,  
one which my editor will probably flog  
me for bringing up in print. But never  
fear; as the tactless messenger of truth  
that I am. I will plunge headfirst into a  
subject which makes the Dome itself  
shudder.  
Sex.  
Now before you dash to the nearest  
computer to e-mail me a piece of your  
mind (mark.d.swiney.3@nd.edu), let me  
state that I do not wish to discuss the  
sexual habits of any particular students,  
the prevalence (or rarity) of sexual activ­ 
ity on this campus, or anything else  you're done.  other on campus are usually not selected  of yourself at parties (Group 3, you're  
which might actually prove entertaining  Come on, I'm sure you've all seen the  by the evaluation committees? Why is it  pathetic).  
(and get me censored).  t-shirt that reads: "SEX KILLS. COME TO  that you have to have both feet on the  Though it might make you insane these  
My curiosity lies instead with the  NOTRE DAME AND LIVE FOREVER!"  floor when sitting with a member of the  days, sexual energy is really not some­ 
amazing amounts of sexual repression I  Don't mistake this to mean that sex  opposite sex in a fully lit 24-hour lounge  thing to worry about. In fact, if it gets out  
lind in most NO students I meet. Most  does not exist on this campus. It lurks  with floor-to-ceiling windows? Why pari­ of hand it can easily be channeled into  
members of the ND community I find to  around every corner, skulks around the  etals? Why in loco parentis?  sports, drama, music, art, schoolwork,  
regard as mysterious and frightening a  halls at parietals time, and flutters  Take a look at the picture of the Welsh  Sega, anything. Sexual energy is the  
biological function which is essential to  through the minds of every young and  Family hanging on the wall of the dorm  greatest asset of the young; that's why  
our species and which, if things had  healthy Notre Dame student at the most  they just dedicated to the school. Where  we've got hormones. It can give us vitali­ 
turned out differently. would probably  inopportune moments.  is Fr. Malloy seated in the picture? Right  ty, enthusiasm, hope, a sense of  
not be such a big deal.  I'm obviously not talking about the act  between Mr. and Mrs. Welsh!  romance, and an appreciation of what is  
At this point let me mention that the  itself (which, incidentally, can get you  Coincidence? I think not. He, like the rest  truly beautiful in life.  
topic of sex and sexuality is not a prod­ expelled from this University). As far as  of this school, is trying to neutralize the  Use it, don't lose it.  
uct of my depraved mind, but has in fact  the incidence of sexual activity is con­ sexual energy that might flow between  
been raised on this campus a number of  cerned, I have no statistics to offer you ..  them or any other male and female on  Mick Swiney is a junior Arts and  
times in recent memory. The most recent  After all, who's going to do a study on it?  this campus. He and everyone else at  Letters major. He can be reached by e­ 
such occurrence was the talk given by  The Dome? ("Have you ever had sex?"  this school is terrified of sex: they run  mail at mark.d.swiney.3@nd.edu. His  
Father Benedict Ashley, who was origi­nally billed as another speaker in the  "Why no, Father.") That's why I'm talking about a much  from it. they shrink from it. Everywhere they think it might show up they do their  column appears every other Thursday. The views expressed in this column are  
series of "People Who Think They Can  less measurable phenomenon: it can't be  best to slam the door in its face, without  those ofthe author and not necessarily  
Solve The Homophobia Problem By  put down in words, but it's here; it's  giving it so much as a milk bone.  those of The Observer .  
• LETTER TO THE EDITOR  
Reparative  
In September, I gave a speech at Notre Dame describ­ be interested in learn­ 
ing treatment of homosexuality for clients who seek sexual-orientation change.  a perspective they ""~'~"r•<aru professors. If they  
A professor at the University, A. Edward Manier,  tells the other side of the  
wrote a letter published in The Observer saying my  · Director of NARTH (The Nat:ional  "pcJlitica.lly correct" story ­ they are  
work was "unethical"  Ass;oci•a.. t.io.. 'ri  Research and Therapy of  NARTH at 16542 Ventura Blvd., Suite  
Professor Manier should be aware that:  Homosexuality), I recently concluded a study of over  91436 for back issues ofour Bulletins.  


(1) 
Childhood Gender-Identity Disorder IS listed in the .850 individuals who report significant change in their Yol.I may be surprised, indeed, at what you learn. psychiatric diagnostic manual. To make children com· sexual orientation. Besides significant reduction in That homosexuality is correlated to gender-atypical fortable with their maleness or femaleness (and at the unwanted homosexual fanta..-;ies and behaviors, most behavior in childhood ... that there is a correlation same time, reduce the risk of their growing up homo­respondents also reported improvements in self-esteem, between male homosexuality and poor relationship sexual), is not "tmethical"; self-understanding, and relationships with others. with f{tther ... that many male homosexual report a his­

(2) 
The American Psychological Association does not While therapy does not typically "erase" every future tory poor same-sex peer relationships ... that no "gay consider ho!Jlosexuality a disorder -but reparative homosexual fantasy, it increases heterosexual respon­gene" has been found ... and that many studies show therapy with homosexuals who wish to change is ethi­siveness and greatly reduces homosexual temptation. that c;hange is possible. cal. A.P.A.'s recent "Resolution on Appropriate For those clients who share NARTH's conviction that Joseph Nicolosi, Ph.D. Responses to Sexual Orientation" is in effect a caution­homosexuality is, indeed, a developmental disorder, Executive Director, NARTH ary statement, but it is not a condemnation ofrepara-such therapy can be a godsend. October I0, 1997 


page 12 
Thursday, October 30, 1997 
~'t:~;,'t;','t:

stereolab Dots & Loops 
(out of five stars) 


various artists 
a·lif~leis 


Fdmary

beck luscious jackson ash sneaker pimps folk implosion rem faithless underworld 
the cardigans elvis presley 
a3 bobby darin squirrel nut zippers dusted 

Courtesy of A&M Records 
A Life Less Ordinary 
(out of five stars) 

F
ilm-makers Danny Boyle, John Ilodge and Andrew MacDonald, the creators of "Shallow Grave" and "Trainspotting," have done it again. They created a soundtrack for their new film, "A Life Less Ordinary," a twisted tale of love and violence, that is so tightly knit in theme, yet so diverse in genre that it leaves the listener com­pletely astounded. "A Life Less Ordinary" soundtrack is like going up to a vending machine with all of your favorite candy in it and choosing blindly. You will be happy with your selection ... regardless. Every song in this album has merit, some more than others, but all of them are really quite good. 
While the critically acclaimed "Trainspotting" soundtrack was a culmination of predominantly British club music that seemed to capture the mood of heroin addicts. "A Life Less Ordinary" represents something much more American and a little more innocent. "A Life Less Ordinary" is a melting pot of today's popular music, as well as some of yesterday's just for good measure. It creates a perfect mood for a modern day love story, in which tomorrow does not always matter' but the present means the whole world. Where else could a such diverse array of musical artists as Beck, Squirrel Nut Zippers, and even Elvis Presley come together, but in a romantic comedy brought to us by the same film-making team that showed us the pitfalls of heroin addiction. 
The album is essentially comprised of romantic music, but each song is given a modern-day edge. The opening track from Beck, "Deadweight." is tlw first single from the album and one of the best songs on the album. Beck combines his uniqw~ styiP to tlw mysteries of love, and the result is pure heavPn. A new version of REM's "Leave" and Faithless's new cut, "Don't Lr~ave," follow s1~quenlially and offer the most emotional moments of the album. Elvis PrPsley and Bobby Darin fans are not disappointed by the offerings of old time favorites, "Always on My Mind" and "Beyond the Sea," rnspectively. Despite their apparent differences from the rest of the album. these tracks by no means conl1ict with the other styles. In fact, they compliment them quite nicely. 
Other noteworthy songs include Ash's "A Life Less Ordinary" (a guitar oriented antlwmatic song of love), Folk Implosion's (of KIDS soundtrack fame) "Kingdom of Lies," and a3's, featuring Errol Thompson, "Peace in the Valley." Even the tracks by the Cardigans and Prodigy are tolerable. 
"A Life Less Ordinary" offers the perfect mixture of new and old, techno and ballads, without bPeoming overly sentimental. It is still fun and exciting without passing over the emotions. In this day and age of the Spice Girls and Hanson, this soundtrack is certainly an album out of the ordinary. 
by Joey Crawford 

Roni Size 

S 
tereolab live in an alternate universe where every day is as stylish as a .Jean Luc-Godard film. Picture a gorgeous French woman in a downtown cafH. sipping macchiato and pon­dering Sartre as she pulls out a pack of cigarettes from her Coach bag. This is Stereolab's world: beau­tiful, hip and groovy. Producing nine albums in six years, many did not think that the arthouse group's unique sound would remain rnlnvant within an ever­changing musical landscape. Indeed, there were those who were ready to dismiss them as a kitschy novelty act. But alas, England's interminably cool band has proven their naysayers wrong with their most recent release, Dots & Loops, which has solidi­fied their position as one of the most consistently innovative and exciting artists around today. 
Their roots are still firmly planted in the "space­age bachelor pad music" of the 1960s, created by Mexican arranger and composer, Esquivel. Like Esquivel, Stereolab is constantly exploring new sounds and unconventional arrangements. Though its trademark use of Moog synthesizers, droning chord progressions, and eleetronie devices oftentimes creates a dissonance, a harmony still exists. Stereolab has always been melodic, subversively at times and overtly at others. 
With Dots & Loops, the group continues to venture into new territories and showcases their ability to traverse multiple genres. "Refractions in the Plastic Pulse" is perhaps their boldest experiment to date. Clocking in at a brisk 17 minutes and 30 seconds, Stereolab essentially offer up five different interpre­tations of the same song. The first take echoes easy listening cocktail lounge music and conjures up images of a melancholy stroll along the left bank of the Seine. The second reworks "Hefractions" into a bouncy, jazzy romp. Version three blasts off from Earth and takes you on an intnrplanetary advnnture. The fourth rendition is an industrial influenced instrumental. Ultimately, the group completes tlw aural collage with a slowed down, H&B tinged, groove laden adaptation. Despitn the divergent styles. Stereolab amazingly holds everything togntlwr in a seaml!1ss fashion. Also, one constant remains through it all: the alluring voeals of lead singer Laetitia Sadier and co-singer Mary Hansen. 
Meanwhile, Sternolab reaehns its finest genre­crossing moment on "Parsec," a song whieh exempli­fies the perfect marriage bntween current drum and bass eleetronica and the type of Brazilian jazz popu­larized by Antonio Carlos Jobim. Instantly nx.hilarat­ing, "Parsec" is simply brilliant. 
But it's not all fun and games for Stereolab, though the listener may think otherwise. Undernnath many of the sing-along melodins are lyrics full of political ideology. Consider the album's l'inal track. "Contronatura." IIere Sadinr ruefully warns: "My dearest friend don't go/Don't go to war/Don't choose to go/You will not win down thn cursed pat)1 of war." Once again displaying their gift for merging seeming­ly incongruous styles, the slow lamentation enters a brief period which feels like being in an eleetronic forest without a guide, then changes into a mid­tempo club tune. 
In the end, Stereolab is a group consisting of numerous dichotomies and paradoxes: weird and welcoming, smart and sexy, dissonant and harmo­nious, and lastly, old and new. With innuences rang­ing from 60s pop and orchestral jazz to experimenta­tions with analogue synthesizers and electronic per­cussion, Dots & Loops brings thn past and tlw future of music together for an extraordinary present. 
by Anthony Limjuco 
~-¢(

New Forms 
(out of five stars) 
live, acoustic basslines. However, these random nity has encountered a number of disturbing attempts at creativity are quickly engulfed by pre­developments. Misogynistic and violent dictable drumbeats. Aside from the rare appearance lyrics, the premature deaths of several of horns or vocals, this album proceeds in a typical prominent stars, and the constantly ridiculous "East fashion that should put the listener to sleep or leave Coast/West Coast" rivalry have all negatively impact­him in an incoherent trance. Considering the fact ed the state of the hip-hop nation. However, the com­that New Forms is a double CD (approximate total bined effect of these events pales in comparison to time: two hours and 15 minutes). listening to the 
the egregious atrocities currently occurring in entire album in onn sitting is a virtual impossibility. Europe. If the emergence of inherently wack groups In fact, the first female to accomplish this is more like Prodigy and the Chemical Brothers wasn't bad than welcome to treat D.J Spak to dinner and a 
D
uring the past 15 years, the hip-hop commu­
• f

enough, the European media is currently declaring mOVIC. 
Roni Size and Heprazent's new-album, New Forms, Overall, this album was created f;,r a particular as the finest British creation since !ish and chips. audience, who just might consider it a stunning and Unfortunately for Roni and the gang, their music is brilliant musical achievement. It is important, howev­almost as bad as their spelling ability. er, to recognize that this is not a hip-hop album. The 
It should be noted that the reviewer's relative lack 
sound of Honi size and most other British DJs is at of rave and acid experience gives him a distinctive 
the best the bastard son uf hip-hop music. This type disadvantage in reviewing this type of music, but as of music certainly has its own unique niche in the Kojak would say,"... that's the way the cookies crum­greater musical spectrum, but the mere thought of 
ble, baby." Some listeners might genuinely enjoy a international acceptance is a particularly frightening frantic drum machine sonically surrounded by one. The British ruined rock 'n roll, and given the bizarre, electronic sound blips. but those same listen­chance they will almost certainly do the sam1~ to rap 
ers probably suffer from an acute mental disorder 
music. So please, do not let history repeat itself: just that has yet to be diagnosed. There are certainly 
say heck no to techno. some interesting elements in Honi's mix of techno and drum n' bass, especially the occasional use of by DJ Spak 

Thursday, October 30, 1997 page 13 

monaco 
trtrtr

Music for Pleasure (out of five stars) 
W
ere are the heroes of the 80s? Dave However, Hook and Potts abruptly change direction Gahan has attempted suicide, Tony on "Buzz Bum" and "Blue." These tracks sound more Wilson's Factory Records has gone bust, like "We Arc the World" sing-alongs than anything nd Bono is pawning himself off as a which sees itself fit to inherent the exploratory legacy hamburger salesman under the golden PopMart of Ian Curtis. arch. However, all is not lost. But, don't despair. "Junk" and "Billy Bones" quick­

Though they have not recorded as a group since 1993, the members of New Order have all kept them­selves busy with various side projects. In particular, frontman Bernard Sumner and longtime friend Johnny Marr had reasonable success with thier pet project, Electronic. But of all of the New Order off­shoots to date, Monaco, fronted by bassist Peter Ilook, clearly sounds more like actual New Order than anything else. 
This adequately proves that Hook's unconventional approach to the bass was the driving force behind New Order's sound, not their renowned electronic gadgetry. Monaco is comprised of Hook and David Potts. These two guys didn't take much time getting to know each other. Potts is actually Hook's son. Monaco seems to pick up where New Order was in 1989, when they recorded the highly danceable Technique. 
If recycled New Order is what you're looking for, the first three songs will make you sing. "Sweet Lips" is a disco-induced frenzy, which sounds like it could be played on summer holiday in the Canary Islands. 
ly bring this record to where it belongs: heavy on fabricated effects and light on organic substance. Father and son continuously trade off lead vocal duties on this record, and it works out just fine. Remaining tracks like "Tender," "Under The Stars," and "Sedona" could just as easily have been written for New Order, circa 1986. Maybe they will be some­day. Sumner and friends have always left the door open to recordi"ng together again, and Monaco's debut LP indicates that Peter Hook shows no sign of letting up. 
Maybe it's unfair to David Potts to constantly com­pare Music For Pleasure to records by his father's previous band, but Monaco shamelessly milks the New Order connection at every opportunity. Thus, if you're a New Order fan, this record is a great trip down memory lane. For others, it is a good way to be indirectly introduced to one of the most consistently innovative bands of the last 20 years. 
by Sean King 


trtrtr~'r

jars of clay Much Afraid (out of five stars) 
I
n the much anticipated release of their new album Haseltine puts it, "The album is about moving from a Much Afraid, Jars of Clay exceeds all expectations place where fear guides us to where we're guided by of greatness. The pop/rock/folk/alternative band, love." This methodology is prevalent throughout the who has been together since college, revolves its entire album not only in the title, Much Afraid, but life and work around the teachings of Christianity. also the title track, "Fade to Grey," "Crazy Times," Jars of Clay started out of Greenville College in and "Weighed Down." Greenville, Ill. It was there that the members met and Jars of Clay strengthens its redefined rock lyricism, realized their shared love of similar music, as well as adding remarkable tunes that get in your head, along the Christian faith. Members Dan Haseltine, Stephen with driving guitars and, as has been the traditional, Mason and Charlie Lowell discovered their musical beautiful harmonies. chemistry during a class in studio recording. On a Jars of Clay soars to new and greater heights with whim, they de.cided to submit one of the student this release after their self-titled platinum debut ­recordings to a nationwide battle of the bands talent album. Expect only greater things to come from this search. They received word that they were finalists already great group. "But we have this treasure in and this is when Charlie's long-time friend Matthew jars of clay to show us that this all-surpassing power Odmark joined them. The band traveled to Nashville is from God and not from us" (II Corinthians 4:7). for the finals and won. Soon after, they quit school and signed a record deal. The rest is history. by Kevin Clark 
Much Afraid adheres to the band's tradition of Christian lyrics and various quotations from the Bible. Each song has its own meaning and message impor­tant to the band and its way of life. As lead singer 
Courtesy of Silvertone Records 


Guided By Voices Nov. 1 Metro (Chicago) Ratdog/From Good Homes Nov. 7 Riviera Theatre (Chicago) KMFDM Nov. 9 The Rave (Chicago) 
-~ 
Kenny Wayne Shepherd Nov. 12 Piere's (Fort Wayne) Vanessa Williams Nov. 16 Star Plaza Theatre (Merrillville) BEN FOLDS FIVE NOV. 18 STEPAN CENTER Crystal Method Nov. 20 Industry (Pontiac) Veruca Salt/Fig Dish/Uitraswiss Nov. 21 Riviera Theatre (Chicago) Juliana Hatfield/Mysteries Of Life Nov. 22 Metro (Chicago) 
LegJohnny-4,9,21,30 & Fresh Horses 
2. 
Chisel-Set You Free 2. Chumbawamba-Tubthumbing 

3. 
Radiohead-OK Computer 3. Cherry Poppin' Daddies-Zoot Suit Riot 

4. 
Grifters-Full Blown Possession 4. Save Ferris-It Means Everything 

5. 
Pixies-Death To The Pixies 5. Bob Dylan-Time Out Of Mind 

6. 
Smoking Popes-Destination Failure Various Artists-Before You Were Punk 

7. 
The Sundays-Static & Silence 7. Goldfinger-Hang-ups 

8. 
Cub-Mauler! 8. Arkarna-Fresh Meat 

9. 
Yo La Tengo-I Can Hear The Heart Beating As One 9. The Tories-A Wonderful Life 

10. 
Buck-0-Nine-Twenty-Eight Teeth 10. Soundtrack-Boogie Nights 


~-----.---------------.~----~----------------------------------------------------------------­
page 14 The Observer • SPORTS Thursday, October 30, 1997 



Green Bay's Koonce unpacks from injury 
The real test comes stretch run. nine months. I didn't get hurt ter Mike Flanagan, who began
Leading tackler 

Thursday morning, however. "Yeah, it will take a couple hitting anybody. I got hurt practicing last week after· 
"I'd like to see how it of weeks, I would think, given running, so you know, I think recovering from a broken leg.makes return responds, see if it's sore the fact that his leg's OK. about it a little bit," he said. Koonce. who had 117 tack­tomorrow," Koonce said. "I Now, get in there and bang Instead of getting treatment les and three interceptions want to see if it's so sore that around a little bit," Holmgren in the training room, Koonce last season, was replaced by

to practice field 

I can't do anything or if it said. "We're going to have to has spent the last several Ron Cox in NFC championship Associated Press feels good." set up some special things for weeks in the weight room and Super Bowl last year and Koonce underwent recon­him because normally he building up his quadriceps by Bernardo Harris this sea­
GREEN BAY, Wis. structive surgery on his right wouldn't get enough banging and hamstring, whieh shrunk son. 
Middle linebacker George knee to repair the anterior around in just our normal during his rehab. The Packers appeared to Koonce, the Green Bay cruciate ligament on Jan. 9. practice." Koonce wouldn't name a have a glut at linebacker until Packers' leading tackler last He spent the first half of the Koonce said he's farther target date for his return to they sent Wayne Simmons to season. practiced on season on the injured list and along mentally than physical­game day. Kansas City three weeks ago Wednesday for the first time the Packers now have three ly. ''I'm just going to do all l and handed Seth Joyner the since tearing a knee ligament weeks to decide whether to "I felt pretty good. I just can to get ready," he said. starting strongside linebaeker in the playoffs in January. activate him or put him on need some more practice ''I'm going to be on standby, job. 
Koonce, who practiced in injured reserve, ending his time," he said. "As far as my so to speak, like the National Koonce's return would once pads, said he felt fine physi­season. reads, I was pleased about Guard, whenever they call me. again make the position Green cally and mentally and was Coach Mike Holmgren said that." I'm just going to do my part to Bay's strongest. invigorated "just going Koonce will have to go But Koonce said there's also get ready." "It feels pretty good right through a whole practice. I'm through his own personal a mental hurdle to conquer. The Paekers have one spot now," Koonce said. "But we'll so used to standing around minicamp to make it back "Oh, yeah. There's a mental open on their 53-man roster, see how it feels tomorrow. just watching." onto the field for the team's thing. I haven't practiced in but that could be filled by cen-We'll see how my recovery is." 
The Observer accepts classilleds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame oftlce, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day clas­
Classifieds sifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
NOTICES  TUTOR needed for 8th grader Primarily Math Will bring the student to campus to fit your sched­ MAC-12MB, CD-ROM, color moni­tor, printer, fax/modem, $750, 4­4322  NOTRE DAME FOOTBALL TICKETS BUY -SELL-TRADE  I have 3 Navy GA's for sale. Brett at x3361  Call  colleen! what is this? i'm so dedi­cated and you publicly humiliate me with  
ule Good pay Please call KATHLEEN 288-9622  232-0058  For Sale: 4 Navy and 4WV GA's­Face Value.  you little valentines to your new beau. what am I supposed to do?  
000 THE COPY SHOP 000 LaFortune Student Center Store Hours Mon.-Thur.: 7:30 a.m.-Midnight Fri.: 7:30 a.m.-7:00p.m. Sat.: Noon-6:00p.m. Sun.: Noon-Midnight  ...EARN FREE TRIPS & CASH'.. CLASS TRAVEL needs students to promote Spring Break 1998! Sell 15 trips & travel free! Highly motivated students can earn a free trip & over $1 0,000! Choose Cancun,  Two Cars-Honda, 89 Civic 4D, DX. Very Clean, Low Milge, Like new. $3590 0/B, 86 Prelude, V.G. Cond. Normal Milge. $16500/B, Call: 2773254 LM.  CONFIDENTIAL TICKET-MART, INC. BUY/SELL ND SEASON AND INDI­VIDUAL GAME TICKETS. 674-7645.  Call Nicole X1308 2 NAVY GA'S FOR SALE CALL JON 243-5321 Buy my GAs to Navy and WV  do you want me to beg? grovel? wail in fiendish misery while you, oh never mind it doesn't do any good to try and talk sense to you .. -don antonio  
- (closed home football Sat.'s) Phone 631-COPY  Bahamas, Mazatlan, Jamaica or Florida! North America's largest stu­dent tour operator! Call Now! 1-800­838-6411  
 ND FOOTBALL TICKETS FOR SALE DAYTIME#: 232-2378  $25.50 1-7048. PERSONAL  call if you want Rani Size katie-2728  to borrow  my new  
Ever  Dreamed  of  Your  Own  I NEED GA TIXS ALL ND  EVENING#: 288-2726  
Business?  Silver Hawks Baseball Team  HOME GAMES.272-6551  LOW PRICES  000 THE COPY SHOP 000  CARL smells and needs a bigger  
T ASP International seeks students  Office  Receptionist  needed  at  LaFortune Student Center  bowl  
for next summer who want entre­ Coveleski Stadium  Wanted: Individual wants tickets for  FOR  SALE  oJ High-Speed Copies  
preneurial and management experi­ Mon-Fri 8:30am-! :OOpm  LSU/Notre Dame Game. Will pay  oJ Canon Color Laser Copies  nevermind but thanks for the offer  
ence. Positive attitude a must. Full  Call 235-9988 for more information  cash.  Phone (318)752-1208 or  N.D. G.A.'S  oJ Digital Color Printing  
training. Earn $8K to $!OK. CALL 1­800-543-3792 I FOR RENT ILOST & FOUNO I l:=W=AL=K=TO=C=A=M=PU=S====--_J 2-5 BEDROOM HOMES would appreciate anyone who finds $195/PERSON  (318)747-8820. ND MOM NEEDS 8 NAVY GA's -PLEASE CALL 1-800-235-5568 x2242. WILL RESPOND ASAP.  271-9412. WANTED N D G A'S TO ALL HOME GAMES 271 1526  oJ Binding & Laminating oJ Public Fax Service 631-FAXI Phone 631-COPY one more day, I dislike calc tests  wow. does subspaces and sings opera. multi-talented to say the least emmett loves happy people amd happy love emmett yeah for everyone involved  
keys to room 308 to call x1862  232-2595  
If you find the little grit who stole  For Sale: 1 Navy GA  FOR SALE:  ...ATIN-GAY, LESBIAN, BISEXU­ 
them, you can also call x1862  BULLARD, MCKINLEY TERRACE,  Call243-1623 with offer.  sorry meghan,  AL, QUESTIONING & SUPPORT­ 
SWANSON PARK 3 BDRM  TWO Navy GAs  have fun on the lab  IVE  STUDENTS,  FACULTY  &  
FOUND: SWISS ARMY WATCH  HOMES. 1 & 2 BDRM DUPLEXS  ONEW. Va GA  STAFF'..  
WI/ BRWN. LEATHER BAND. SIL­ ALSO. 2726551  9 NAVY TIXS FOR SALE.  BEST  snappy now baby  
VER FACE. CALL TARA 243-8563  OFFER 243-5354  Call Colby @ 4-4903  Original Student-Run Group Will  
1-bdrm, turn. apt.. Downtown SB.  !-minus one day till happy time  Hold Support/Discussion Group  
FOUND FOUND FOUND Did you lose your ND umbrella at  $400/mo. + $150 dep. Lease. 233­2900 or 272-7305.  ND VS. NAVY & W. VA TIX FOR SALE 273-3911 LEAVE  4 NAVY GA'S FOR SALE  I have lost all respect for emmett's  Meeting TONIGHT!!! 10/30 at 8PM. Confidential.  
the library Sun. nile (10/26)? I have  MESSAGE  x3947 Michelle  musical tastes  
it.  Call Mary Beth @x2510.  ROOMS IN PRIVATE HOME FOR  Call  Info-line  at  236-9661  for  
FOUND  FOUND  FOUND  FOOTBALL  WEEKENDS  AND  4 NAVY GA's  NAVY and WV FOOTBALL GA's  tom r. is a grouch  Details.  
OTHER ND-SMC EVENTS.  $32each x1998  FOR SALE: 273-0428  
LOST: Martial arts letter jacket at Senior Bar. Call x4969 or return to Senior Bar. Reward offered for info or the return of the jacket. LOST -ROOM KEY -#406. CALL JILL 4-3196.  VERY CLOSE TO CAMPUS -5 MIN. DRIVE OR 15-20 MIN. WALK. 243-0658. THAT PRETTY PLACE, Bed and Breakfast Inn has space available  Hey, you want my 4 NAVY GA's don't you? good. then call jodie @ x3645 •  PHISH PHANS Going phishing 12/6 in Auburn Hills, MI. Have 2 xtra rods but need boat. Call X4238. For Sale: Four Navy GAs  correction in yesterday's paper. Wednesday was fun with LINEAR TRANSFORMATIONS not matri­ces. pardoname  To the person who had a letter to the editor dropped off at The Observer last night: I have questions. Contact me at 1­4542. You know who you are. Brad, EIC  
for football/parent wknds. 5 Rooms  Sale Navy & W.VA.  Call Bill @ 4-4721  Beware the DONKEY PUNCH!!!  
WANTED Gold!! Wanted reps., unlimited earning potential!' 616-461-6772.  with private baths, $70-$90, Middlebury, 30 miles from campus. Toll Road, Exit #107, 1-800-418-9487. LG. FURN. RM .. PRIV. BATH, PRIV. ENT., 10 MIN. TO CAMPUS.  Married Tixs-don't need i.d. b.o. leave mess. 288-8680 4 NAVY GA'S 4 SALE MATT X2010 4 NAVY GA's  For Sale: 2 Navy GAs & 1 Student Call: 634-2997 for sale 2 navy ga's  but fear the DANZA SLAP, that's even worse If you wear jcrew, you are a tool bears and northwestern is a little  SMC SENIORS: Come join the rest of the class of '98 tonight at Mishawaka Brewing Company from 8-10 p.m. Celebrate Halloween early. What is that funky smell? Find out on Nocturne 88.9 FM  
Earn MONEY and FREE TRIPS!! Absolute Best SPRING BREA!( Packages available!! INDIVIDU­ MALE GRAD. PREF. 232-8285. 6 BDRM HOME NEXT FALL272­ $32 each Call Brian 243-5638  call3773 NAVY GA FOR SALE  DDA either way your screwed  www.nd.edu/-wsnd Oh to be Robert Petrie  
ALS, student ORGANIZATIONS, or  6551  4 NAVY GA's  Dan,  
small GROUPS wanted!! Call INTER-CAMPUS PROGRAMS at I -800-327-6013 or http://www.icpt.com  FOR SALE  +++++++++++++++++++++++ For Sale: 3 Navy student tickets  BEST OFFER CALL BETH: 634 -0734  Muchas gracias par Ia cena. No puedo esperar para Ia misa el domingo. !Me encanta el dia de los muertos!  AS-squared: Ultralights, Diet Coke, and procrastination -the nectar of the goddesses!  
MODELS/DANCERS WANTED  NEW STEREO EQUIPMENT many  (not GA's) call Jenny @ 687-8435  Wanted: converted Navy GA's Call4-1421  Con carina, Colleen  Hutch, Hutch, oh Hutch It's 4:30 a.m. and all we can think  
please call 219-271-0633  names 25-70% off retail full warran­ +++++++++++++++++++++++  about is where is our favorite  
ND Prof. needs babysitter for infant next semester T/Th: 11:30-3:30: MWF flexible. Call Dr. Braungart­Rieker: 631-6914 (office): 233-1268(home).  ty Nick @ 4-2033 Brass bed, queen size with orthope­dic mattress set and frame. New, never used, still in plastic. $250.00 219-862-2082.  For Sale: 2Navy and 2 W.VA GAs. Call243-2173. I have 4 Navy GA's all together. Call Kevin at 4-1999  I have Navy GAs! Do you need them? Call me at x1287. We NEED 2 GA's for WV lv. msg. (800)321-4110x10986  no, not you cichalski. as if. "go sleepyhouse" = "to go to sleep" Use it tonight  production man? I guess you've moved onto bigger and better things. Well, at least a job that reaps better late-night ben­efits. Still, we miss you up here, especially at this fun hour!  

---~ --~--~--~--~­
~--------­
Thursday, October 30, 1997 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 15 
Our students support these local United Way agencies;shouldn't we? 
American Red Cross Big Brothers/Big Sisters Boys and Girls Club C.A.N.C.O. Catholic Charities El Campito Girl Scouts La Casa de Amistad Legal Services Program Literacy Council Logan Mental Health Association Salvation Army United Health Services 

Youth Service Bureau 

You know the reputation our students have for sharing their time and talents in community service -and that reputation is well deserved. By graduation, more than 75 percent of our students have been involved in social service, many of them with the local United Way-supported agencies listed here. 
But what about those of us -Notre Dame faculty and staff -who make our permanent homes in this community? Shouldn't we demonstrate the same kind of support for these agencies that our students do during their brief stays here? 
It's so easy, really. All we need do is decide what we can afford to give -however much that is -then list that amount on our United Way pledge cards and return them. 
Consider the impact: The agencies listed here provide emergency food, clothing and living assistance to people in crisis; day care, tutoring, and role models to children and young people; shelter to the abused; health care and support services to the disabled, the elderly and the ill; treatment, education and hope to the addicted; counseling and care to struggling families. 
In overwhelming numbers, our students embrace these efforts, enriching these programs with their time and talents -and enriching themselves in the process of giving. 
Can we do less? 

Join our students on the United Way/Notre Dame team and pledge your support today. 
page 16 The Observer • SPORTS Thursday, October 30, 1997 



Barkley leaning toward retirement after arrest 
The Associated Press 
HOUSTON 
Charles Barkley, saying his young daughter was being harassed by schoolmates over his arrest in Orlando, Fla., told several Houston reporters Wednesday he is "leaning toward retirement" from basket­ball. 

The Houston Rockets forward, who has missed two consecutive practices, was in Phoenix on Wednesday to mull over his future with his wife, Maureen, and daughter, Christiana, according to several reports. 

Barkley will no longer take to the court if he decides to call it quits. 
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME INTERNATIONAL STUDY PROGRAM IN 

... "":""~ 
__....._ ..­
.. ---......... 
TOLEDO, SPAIN 
RECRUITMENT MEETING FOR 1998-99 WITH PROFESSOR OLIVIA R. CONSTABLE AND CARMEN NANNI 
MONDAY, NOVEMBER 3, 1997 4:45PM 118 DEBARTOLO 
APPLICATION DEADLINE FOR ACADEMIC YEAR 1998-99. FALL '98 AND SPRING '99: DECEMBER 1. 1997 
Barkley contacted at least two cnce call earlier Wednesday that Rockets spokesman Tim Frank television stations -KHOU and the league would take no action said Barkley's absence from KTRK -and also called the against Barkley until there was practice was excused because of Houston Chronicle. some outcome in the Orlando a family emergency. 
KHOU said Barkley reported case. "He had missed practicesbeing upset with harassment his Contacted late Wednesday, because ... he was having a fam­daughter was facing at elemen­NBA spokesman Brian Mcintyre ily crisis," Frank said. "When a tary school in Phoenix. said he had not heard from family's involved, we always 
Barkley also said he was upset Barkley about any retirement. consider family as a major part that the NBA did not rule out "Hopefully, this a heat-of-the­of everybody's life." suspending him for the Sunday moment thought," Mcintyre told The Rockets open their season incident in which he was the AP. Friday against the Cleveland accused of throwing a bar Early last Sunday, Barkley was Cavaliers. Teammates said they patron through a plate-glass charged with aggravated battery hoped Barkley would join them. window. and resisting arrest after he "Everybody's getting ready to 
"Right now, I'm leaning allegedly threw a bar patron go," said Brent Price. "We want 
toward retirement," the 11-time through a window. Barkley told all the pieces in place. What's NBA All-Star told the Houston police the 20-year-old man. important is that he takes eare Chronicle. "If the league is not Jorge Lugo, had thrown a glass of business." 
going to stand by me, then I'll of icc on the basketball star and In August 1996, the Phoenix just say thank you very much three women sitting with him. Suns traded Barkley to Ilouston and move on." Barkley chased Lugo to the in a blockbuster deal. Barkley, 
Barkley could not be reached front of the bar, where an off­who is in his 14th NBA season, by The Associated Press on duty officer tried to intervene. averaged 19.2 points, 13.5 Wednesday night. But Barkley picked up Lugo and rebounds and 4.7 assists last 
NBA officials said in a confer-threw him through the window. season. 




WSND Presents . .. 
An in depth interview with President Marilou Eldred of Saint Mary's College. Listen to WSND 
88.9 FM to find out how she plans on leading 1 smc into the 21st century.
I I I I I I 

This Sunday at 5:30-· on IRISH NEWS 

X 


Free Admission to ALL! 



--~~-----­
~­
Thursday, October 30, 1997 The Observer • SPORTS page 17 
• MAJOR lEAGUE BASEBAll 
Orioles' Johnson under fire, may not return 
The Associated Press 
BALTIMORE 

Baltimore Orioles owner Peter Angelos now has a reason to fire manager Davey Johnson, who may not be asked back for the third and final year of his con­tract. 
In what Angelos calls "an infraction of serious propor­tions," Johnson ordered second baseman Roberto Alomar to pay a $10,500 fine for violating team policy to a charity that retains Johnson's wife as a fund-raiser. 
"The money belongs to the ball club," Angelos said Wednesday in a telephone inter­view with The Associated Press. "That's an obligation the man­ager has. There has been an infraction of serious proportions here." 
Johnson fined Alomar $10,000 in July after Alomar skipped an exhibition game between the Orioles and their Triple-A team without permission. Alomar tried to be with his family in Puerto Rico after the death of his grandmother. but ended up staying in Baltimore because he could not get a flight back in time for the Orioles' next game. 
Johnson tacked on an extra $500 because Alomar also missed a team banquet in April. 
Johnson ordered Alomar to pay the fine to a scholarship fund run by Dr. Benjamin Carson of Johns Hopkins Hospital. Johnson's wife, Susan, is involved in fund-raising for the Carson Scholars Foundation. 
Johnson told The New York Times in Thursday's editions that general manager Pat Gillick typed the letter to Alomar. 
"It wouldn't have mattered where the charity was. He could've picked one out of the hat," Johnson told the Times. "But if it doesn't work out, I don't care. Don't pay the fine, don't pay whatever. I don't care. If you want to put me in jail for that, go ahead and put me in jail." 
The fine has not been paid because of an objection raised by the Major League Baseball Players Association, which protested the amount of the fine and its designation to a charity picked by Johnson. 
"Unless this matter is resolved, there will be a grievance filed on behalf of the player," union spokesman Rich Weiss said Wednesday. 
Under Johnson, the Orioles compiled the best record in the American League and won their first division title in 14 years. But Angelos and Johnson, both strong-willed, have had their dif­ferences over the past two years. 
Johnson told The New York Times that New York Yankees owner George Steinbrenner sent 

him two congratulatory telegrams for the season. "That's more than our owner," Johnson said. 
Before the controversy over the fine, Angelos said he proba­bly would bring Johnson back for the final year of his $2.5 mil­lion contrar;t. Johnson, in turn, sent a fax to the Orioles asking for an extension or a buyout. 
Johnson's lawyer, Skip Dalton, told The New York Times his client believed that designating how a fine Was paid should be the manager's decision. 
"He said that's the way he's always handled fines," Dalton said. "He doesn't feel it was han­dled inappropriately.'' 

Vernon's return to Detroit upset by Shark loss 
The Associated Press 
DETROIT 

Larry Murphy scored the tie­breaking goal 45 seconds into the third period Wednesday night and the Detroit Red Wings ruined goalie MikP. Vernon's return to Joe Louis Arena with a 4-3 victory over the San Jose Sharks. 
Vernon was playing in Detroit for the first time since he earned the Conn Smythe Trophy as playoff MVP while leading the Red Wings to their first Stanley Cup championship in 42 years. He was traded to San Jose in August for two draft picks. 
Murphy scored off a rebound during a goal mouth scramble, giving the Red Wings their fourth straight win, while extending their unbeaten streak to six games. 
The Sharks had a two-game winning streak snapped. Vernon. who won his previous two starts after beginning the season 2-4. made 25 saves. Chris Osgood, Detroit's undis­putrd No. 1 goalie since Vernon was traded, stopped 31 shots. 
Doug Brown, Steve Yzerman and Darren McCarty scored the other goals for Detroit (10-1-2), which is off to the franchise's best start since 1962. 
Tony Granato had two goals and Bill Houlder also scored for the Sharks, who are 2-1 on a live-game road trip. 
The teams were tied 2-2 after one period, with all four goals scoring on deflections. 
Granato scored both his goals on similar plays while standing in front of the Detroit net. He tipped a left-circle pass from Marco Sturm to give the Sharks a 1-0 lead at 8:20, and he added a power-play goal by deflecting Marcus Ragnarsson's left-point pass at 12:12. 
Detroit quickly answered both goals. Brown scored a power­play goal by deflecting Viacheslav Fetisov's pass at 10:24, then Yzerman tipped a perfect centering pass from McCarty at 12:58. 
McCarty put the Red Wings ahead 3-2 when he broke in between the circles and beat Vernon with a rising shot at 
6:27 of the second period. But the Sharks needed just 13 sec­onds to even it when Houlder scored on a hard wrist shot. 
Islanders 5, Canadiens 2 
MONTREAL 
Bryan Berard scored one of New York's three second-period goals and added two assists as the Islanders snapped a three­game losing streak with a 5-2 win over the Montreal Canadiens on Wednesday night. 
Travis Green, Zigmund Palffy, Bryan Smolinski and Mike Hough also scored for the Islanders, who ended a seven­game winless streak against the Canadiens with their first win over Montreal since Oct. 20, 1995. 
With the game tied 1-1, Palffy gave New York the lead with his sixth goal, a power-play goal at 
3:51 of the second period. Smolinski scored for a 3-1 lead just over four minutes later. 
Berard finished the outburst with his sixth goal on a power play with 5:14 left in the period. 
Islanders goaltender Eric Fichaud, a Montreal native, made 21 saves for his first win of the season. 
Mark Recchi scored both goals for Montreal, 3-2 in its last five games and 1-1-0 on its current five-game homestand. 
Canadiens goaltender Jocelyn Thibault faced 26 shots ­allowing five goals on the first 15 -and lost for the first time in nine career games against New York. 
Montreal, which entered with the league's most proficient power play, went 0-for-6 with the manpower advantage and failed to manage a shot on goal during a 1:50 two-man advan­tage in the second period. 
Blues 3, Flyers 2 
PHILADELPHIA 

Just 23 seconds after his team gave up the tying goal, Pavol Demitra beat Garth Snow with 
2:38 remaining to give the surg­ing St. Louis Blues a 3-2 victory over the Philadelphia Flyers on Wednesday night. 
Less than a half-minute before, the Flyers' John LeClair had tied the game with his 1Oth goal with 3:01 left. LeClair emerged from a scramble in the corner and stuffed the puck under goalie Grant Fuhr, who stepped in for starting goalie Jamie McLennan. McLennan left the game midway through the second period with a strained groin. 
Scott Pellerin and Al Macinnis also scored for the Blues, who have just one loss in their last 12 games (10-1-1). Rod Brind'Amour also scored for the Flyers, who have lost two straight and had just two shots in the final period. 
Philadelphia's power play continued to come up empty, missing on all five of its chances, including a manpower advantage in the last seven minutes. The Flyers are now scoreless in their last 17 oppor­tunities with a man advantage and have just nine power-play goals in 69 chances this season. 

St. Louis was outshot 10-4 in the first period, but still emerged with a 1-0 lead, thanks to Macinnis' seventh goal at 13:11. Macinnis, left alone in the slot, took a pass from Harry York and fired the puck over Snow's shoulder. 
Brind'Amour tied it in the second period just after McLennan was replaced and ended a Philadelphia scoreless streak of 9 3:21. Defenseman Chris Therien fired a shot from the left point and Brind;Amour managed to deflect it past Fuhr at 11:28. 
NOTRE DAME HOME FOOTBALL WEEKENDS 
Public Welcome... 
on the campus ofNotre Dame Phone (219) 631-2000 
EJCil n Interstate 80-90 
The ..A.. 
..A.. NoU. 
Morna~--{ 
w 01111• 
Inn 
Angola 

AIRPORT SOUlli BEND. INDIANA 

Stadium 

Irish Courtyard 
Hours: Friday 3:00pm-10:30pm Saturday 9:00am-7:00pm 
"Come join us for Irish festivities and football weekend fun!" 
• 
Grilled Burgers & Brats 

• 
Cold Beverages 

• 
Big Screen T.V.s 

• 
All Under a Large Tent 



Dining Room 
• 
Casual Dining Serving Daily, Breakfast, Lunch, and Dinner 

• 
Reservations Recommended 


• 
Notre Dame Souvenirs 

• 
Live "Irish Band" Fri. 4:00pm-1 0:30pm Sat. 1 0:00am-2:00pm 



Cocktail Lounge 
• 
Sandwich and Appetizer Menu Available Daily 

• 
Popular Campus Gathering Spot 


Strong friendships founded in Christ are forming. 
The Holy Spirit is empowering students to give their lives to God and to know him deeply. 
Students on both campuses are gathering daily for prayer and to share meals. 
Weekly, God is filling the Notre Dame room with his Spirit as students come together to praise and him. 
Morning pra:yer: ND 8:40 M-Fri. Keenan-Stanford Chapel 
Night Prayer: SMC 10:00pm Sun. and Tues. Holy Cross Chapel, Mon., Wed., and Thurs. Regina Chapel 

_,,1/ 

•~" Prayer Meetings: ND 7:30pm Fridays 
\r\_ 

in LaFortune's ND room (secondfloor) 


page 18 The Observer • SPORTS Thursday, October 30, 1997 
Another rare accuracy in on Sunday you will finish at was on the sidelines. Brtalik's article is his labeling .500" -that would not even "It's tough to be on the side­

Jock Strip Jarious
of Pat Garrity as a "premier be deemed unfit for a T-ball lines when the offense is on 
athlete for all other athletes to game nonetheless a college the field, period," Powlus said.
continued from page 24 continued from page 24 
follow." Garrity is a role women's soccer game. Brtalik ''I'm happy for .Jarious. He's a pus that may walk the walk model in every sense of the should commend these players action in the first half han­great guy and a good friend of and talk the talk: the football word: a great player who per­for attending the game and dling a series or two. mine, and I'm happy for him. I 
team and the women's soccer Though .Jackson is not sure
forms well both in the class­rooting on their fellow stu­support the kid and I wish him room and on the court. Let me dent-athletes instead of con­well."
team." While Brtalik is correct how much time he will see or in stipulating that the girl's introduce you to Steve Noble. demning them for saying two whether he will be the quar­.Jackson, known more for his soccer team can "walk the terback for 
,---------~
The first three-year captain in of the least offensive things I running ability than his pass­walk" he is wrong in saying the history of Notre Dame have ever heard on a soccer the next ing prowess. feels he has hockey, Noble is a star on and field. developed into a more com­
the football team can do the series, his same. In eight games, it has off the ice. I also find it interesting that approaeh is plete quarterback due to the As a Rhodes Scholar candi­Brtalik wrote about the alleged installation of a more open
managed a total of three victo­the same 
date who, when not playing soccer incident a month al'ter and balanced offense.
ries; ironically, the hockey each time. team has managed the same hockey or doing community it occurred. Why the delay? "What I do "Being able to throw more number of victories (three) in service, can be found in the Perhaps because when his col­is go in with different quick passes half the number of games Hesburgh Library, Noble umn was printed, the hoc.kPy there and I and deeper routes I think has (four). maintains a 3.958 cumulative team was playing on tho road just try to helped me a lot," Jackson Don't get me wrong: I am a GPA. I find it interesting that at St. Cloud State and none of settle down explained. fan of our football team. At _and play my game," .Jaekson
the players would have the With the return of Powlus, 
opportunity to confront Brtalikthe same time, I am a fan of 

'Jn unsuccessfully or respond to his allegations.
reality and rationality, unlike Brtalik, and therefore realize trying to make a Or, maybe because the Oct. 17 
issue was the last one until fall
that this year has not been a 

point, Brtalik tarnished 
break. thereby allowing people terms of wins and losses, but the reputation of one of to forget about it-that is, 
successfu·I one for football in 
everyone except the hockny

instead perhaps in terms of our up-and-coming 
program and Coach Poulin.

building for the future under first-year coach Bob Davie and sports programs Coach Poulin forgot about it through first-year standouts through meaningless three weeks ago, when he such as Tony Driver and Grant 
made members of the now Irons. · facts exaggerated with infamous sophomore class Building for the future. unsubstantial rumors.' write letters of apology to the women at North Carolina and
That's exactly what Irish hock­made the whole team suffer
ey coach Dave Poulin has been through various punishment
doing since his tenure began a little more than two years ago. 

the captain of these "athletes drills. Three successful recruiting· with attitudes" is arguably the Of course, Brtalik, who cor­classes have led to a team 
most prominent student-ath­rectly pegged Poulin as a per­lete on campus, renowned for son with "a great deal of class,
stacked with two USA World Junior Championship members his strength of character. a great personality," would As for the incident itself, have enough respect for the
and seven players drafted by NHL teams. Nevertheless, 

Brtalik makes a mountain out man to not bring up an indis­Brtalik quips, "One still doesn't 
of a molehill. Apparently, cretion on the part of his play­gloat coming off back-to-back 
when non-athletes attend ers nearly a month after it had sub-10 win seasons." Indeed, 
sporting events and taunt ath­become a moot point. letes in an attempt to break It is all too appropriate that
the Irish hockey team won only nine games last year, but 

their concentration, it is Brtalik states, "Trash talk also they also lost 12 games by a viewed as witty and amusing. reflects poorly on the person single goal -a natural prob­
Yet when a fellow athlete who speaks it." In unsuccess­docs this it is unsportsman­fully trying to make a point,
lem for a young team. Brtalik believes the hockey 

like? Why the double stan­Brtalik tarnished the reputa­team has been unsuccessful 
dard? If anything, the athletes tion of one of our up-and-com­these past two years, but the 
should have more of a right to ing sports programs through fact of the matter is that it has 
taunt one another than anyone meaningless facts exaggerated been successful because it has 
else. And what of these cruel with unsubstantiated rumors. shown an improvement year and malicious taunts? Brtalik Maybe Brtalik should realize after year that will culminate identified two phrases -how poorly his trash-talking of 
in its breakout season this 

"Good try, you always have the hockey team reflects on Sunday to win" and "At least him.
year. 

'?rtLL SP&e1rtL 
$3 per person per hour (Not Friday or Saturday after 6 o'clock) ••THE BEST TABLES AT THE BEST RATES.. 
402 E.Madison SouthBend 23-0-S-C-A-R (236-7227)
Open 7 days a week 

Must be 21 to enter Just a 3 minute walk from downtown Full Bar • Appetizers • Leagues • Tournaments 
BURNS RENT 
ALLS INC. 
332 W. MISHAWAI<A AVE. MISHAWAI<A, IN 46545 
259-2833 
MA\(£-UP c.os1'UM£S 61 
... 
fOR SA\.£ 

----... -.,.-----·-.-----...--.,..--,
JlJO)% WU~(C(Q)lUNll! ONRENTAL ! 
I 
OF COSTUMES : 
I I 
• • • • • • • • • • I 
Jackson has bePn able to con­
The changes that surround­tinue to learn the offense and ed the Notre Dame football develop at practice, but there program last season probably are also the obvious negatives had its greatest effect on of l'owlus' return for Jackson. Jackson. "It's helped me in ways, but 
Powlus has expressed that then again it's held back 
said. 

me his decision to stay was based from playing a lot," Jackson on Lou Holtz's decision to said. "From tlw positive side resign. Powlus' decision put I've been able to sit back and .Jackson on the bench for take my time and learn. but at another season. the same time, I'm still one "I wasn't angry about it or step away." 
anything like that," Jackson Ilopefully for Jackson and said. "I would put myself in the Irish. all that Jackson has that situation and I can't fault been through has prepared 
him for making the dncision him for his time, which is just that he made. I'll have to liv1~ 
around the cornPr. with it. That's life." 
''I've had to deal with the This past weekend l'owlus positive things well the
as as 
saw himself in Jackson's negative," Jackson said. "I shoes as Jackson was with the think that's helped me grow llrst team offense and Powlus as a quarterback." 
Jarious Jackson•s Career Statistics 
G  Att-Cmp-Int  Pet  Yds  TD  Lng  Avg/G  
1997  3  4-3-0  75.0  56  0  32  18.7  
1996  6  15-10-0  66.7  181  3  38  18.1  
Carries  Yds  TD  Lng  Avg/G  
1997  9  32  3  9  3.6  
1996  11  16  0  21  10.7  

Thursday, October 30, 1997 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 19 
ARE YOU INTERESTED IN A CAREER ON 


Come find out about 
"lite on the Street" 
and how to uet there! 
Commercial Banking • Investment Banking • Asset Management 





Executives from 
Chase Manhattan+ Credit Suisse/First Boston Goldman Sachs + Lehman Brothers+ Merrill Lynch Morgan Stanley, Dean Witter, Discover & Co. Robert Baird+ Salomon Smith Barney• T. Rowe Price 
Who: All Majors & Classes Welcome 
When: 
Friday, October 31, 1997 • 10:00 a.rn.,.:~·~.3 :30 p.m. 

Where: 



Jordan Auditorium -College ofBusiness'A'<lmmistratiOn 
For further information contact:+ ····~· 
Prof. John Affleck-Graves. 631-6370 • ~ffleck-graves.l@nd.edu · 
Students may submit resumes to COB~t~102 by October 30 for inclusion in the· Wall S:treet,Resume Book -· 
. . -. -.. .,.

"'"'"'"········l" .... *illl~, .......... , ,
......... ....... ttlt 

----------------~---------------------~-~---~ ~-~ 
page 20 The Observer • SPORTS Thursday, October 30, 1997 
• ROWING 




Stone set to coach woman's rowing 
Special to The Ob$Crver 
Martin Stone, women's crew coach at the United States Naval Academy since 1992, and coach of the Division II national champi­onship team in 19':)4, has been named the first women's rowing coach at the University of Notre Dame. 
Rowing becomes a varsity sport at Notre Dame effective with the 1998-99 academic year, making it the 13th women's varsity sport offer­ing and the 26th sport overall at the University. 
Stone's leadership at Navy enabled the Midshipmen to compete both years in the prestigious Eastern 

crews at the Champion International Regatta. 
In '93, the Mid-women fm­ished 6-4, including a sweep of all races at the Patriot League Championship. Navy's first novice boat later finished 
first  at  the  Champion  
International  Collegiate  
Rowing Regatta.  

Stone began in '92 by lead­ing Navy's varsity eight to their first gold medal at the Dad Vail. Regatta, the East Coast's largest crew regatta, that spring. Navy's second varsity eight also won a gold medal_.....•.•.•.• •• and rj(!VY earned 
'the SeitzTrophy for overall team performance by women's crews ~t the Dad Vail for the si~t).straight 
Association of Women's ''year. · " · Rowing Colleges (EAWRC). Prior to taking over the 
In '95 he coached the Navy Mids' women's program, women's squad to a 7~5 Stone served as NlJ.vy's plebe record, with the varsity eight #•lightweight coacein '91. He 
finishing fifth and the second varsity second at the Champion International Regatta. Ayear earlier. be watched the Midshipmen claim the Division II national crown by winning the varsity eight title at the Champion Intercollegiate Rowing Championships and taking ·first in the first novice and second novice championship 
races as well. 
Those combined efforts 
earned Navy the Anita 
DeFrantz Trophy for overall 
performance by women's 

was the assistant rowing coach at Saint Mary's College in Moraga, Calif.# in 1990, working with bot~ the men's and women's programs and specifically coaching the var­sity and novice women. 
Stone is a 1989 graduate of .Saint Mary's, with a bachelor of arts degree~ A native of Santa Rosa, Calif., he rowed for four years at Saint Mary's, earning t:Wo letters in the heavyweight boat and one in the lightweight boat. Three times he was named the most valuable oarsman; 
• MAJOR lEAGUE SOCCER 


Dallas burns overtime oil 
Associated Press 
INDIANAPOLIS 
The Dallas Burn won a 5-:~ shootout in overtinHJ Wednesday night to beat D.C. United 1-0 and claim the U.S. Open Cup. 
Jorge Rodriquez booted the winning penalty kick past div­ing goalie Tom Prestus to give Dallas the win over favored 
D.C. after scoreless regulation and overtime periods at the 
Indiana  University  Track  
Stadium  on  the campus of  
Indiana  University-Purdue  

University at Indianapolis. 
It was a high miss by D.C.'s Haul Diaz Arce that gave the Burn a 2-1 advantage that eventually resulted in the win 
•NBA 

after 120 minutes of playing. 
United, the defending U.S. Open Cup champion. won the Major League Soccer Championship on Sunday. 
Dallas, who beat United in two of three MLS regular-sea­son meetings this year, outshot 
D.C. 20-14 in the game as both goalies had five saves. 
Even though the game was scoreless in regulation, the first 90 minutes were not without excitement -especially late in the game. 
Dallas' midfieldcr Daniel Peinado nearly broke the tic at the 80th minute, but his open shot l'rom 15 feet out hit the goal post. 
Four minutes later, United almost scored when Marco Etcheverry's corner kick bounced off several players, nearly rolling past Dallas goalie Mark Dodd. 
Dallas outshot D.C. 9-5 in the second half. 
Neither team threatened much in the first half as Dallas took five shots to four for D.C. 
Only one shot for each team required a goalie savn as the rest were too high or wide of the net. 
D.C.'s Haul Diaz Arce appeared to have scored on a short boot at the 29th minute, but his team was ruled offside. 
United played without stars John Harhs, Jeff Agnos and Eddie Pope -all training with the U.S. National Team this week. 

Women break ground as refs 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK 
Dee Kantner and Violet Palmer, the NBA's first women referees, aren't wor­ried about handling Charles Barkley, Dennis Rodman and the league's other bad boys. 
"We'll treat them just like any other player," Palmer said during a conference call with Kantner on Wednesday night. "Confrontation is part of being a referee. If they cross a line they're not sup­posed to, they'll get a techni­cal like any other player." 
One day after being hired and two days before the start of the NBA season, Kantner and Palmer gave their first public reactions to their groundbreaking achievement. 

Although they'll be the first women to officiate regular­season games in a major U.S. professional sports league, Kantn1~r was surprised the press gave the story so much attention. 
''I'm really stunned by the response we're getting," she said. "We just followed a path that was laid out for us." 
Both women have officiated NBA exhibition games the last two years arid worked NBA summer league games the last three years. They also have refereed women's professional and college games. 
"J think Dee and I were selected on our ability," Palmer said. 
"We didn't have to fight to get to this point. We've been given an opportunity, and we're going to do the job to the best of our ability." 
Kantner, 37. said she didn't start out to be a trailblazer for women in sports. 
"I don't think Violet or I could say this was our intent," she said. 
"But if one of the afteref­fects is that wompn are given more opportunities. we're obviously in favor of that." 

--------.._.,---~-----~----------~---------~-~--~-~....-----~--~-~--~__.,---~---~---...._..________ 
Thursday, October 30, 1997 The Observer· SPORTS page 21 
• VOllEYBAll 



Leffers leads lineup at middle blocker 
By Bill HART 
Sports Writer 
For many years, the success of Notre Dame's volleyball team has hinged on the depth of its lineup. This season, one has to look no further than the middle blocker position, where there are six players vying for two starting positions. Fortunately, tho Irish returned many experi­enced players for the position, including sophomore Mary Leffers. 
Raised in Tampa, Fla., Leffers grew up in a very athletic fami­ly. Iler father played football at Vanderbilt and was later a member of the Oakland Raiders practice squad. After leading her team to a state title and top­10 national ranking during her senior year, she was named Gatorade player of the year for the Southern region. 
In a recent match against Houston, Leffers found a famil-

Fighting Irish Wo111en's Volleyball 
Mary Leffers #8 
Year: 
Sophomore 

Ht. -Position: 
6-4 -Middle Blocker 
Hometown: 
Tampa, Fla. 
High School: 
Berkeley Prep 

Club Team: 
Tampa Juniors VBC 


Taking Applications for Fall '98 and January '98 

Thursday, October 30 7-10 at White South Field 

BURN BABY BURN! 
iar face staring back at her across the net -her sister Emily, a senior on the Cougar squad. 
"It was so much fun," she remarked on the reunion. "After the match, we talked about it for quite a while. For the first two games, my sister was really nervous. After we won the first two games, I was worried about how she would feel if we won the third game and swept them." The Cougars went on to take the next three and won the match. 
Even in the early stages of Leffers' career, it was obvious that she would become a crucial part of the Irish lineup. In her first season. she totaled 160 blocks, the most ever by a Notre Dame freshman, and earned a spot on the Big East all-rookie team. 
"Mary can change the com­plexion of a match and I think people saw that at times last season," head coach Debbie Brown said. "We need her to set the tone for us in the middle and she is the type of competitor who will do her best to make that happen." 
Despite having a relatively young career in collegiate vol­leyball, leffers has already made a place for herself in the record books. Currently, she ranks second in blocks per game and eighth in kills per game. Her career hitting per­centage of .288 is on pace to be the third-best in Irish history, six points shy of teammate Lindsay Treadwell. This season, Leffers owns a .309 season hit­ting percentage that would rank third in Notre Dame history. 
At this point in the season, 
Leffers is having some of the most impressive matches of her career. In a five-game win over Illinois State, she had 19 kills with just two errors to lead the team. She also had a career­best four aces against the Red Birds while serving five straight points in the critical fifth game of the match. Three days later, she totaled 18 kills on .533 hit­ting in a three-game win over Boston College. The next day, she turned in seven kills with no errors in a victory against Providence. 
As a three-sport athlete in high school, Leffers' athletic tal­ents are not limited to volley­ball. Last year, she guided her team to the Bookstore Basketball championship title and was named to the all-tour­nament squad. 
This season, she will be in the lineup for the women's basket­ball team. 
"Last year, I thought about it," she said on her decision to play basketball, "but I really didn't have a chance to go through with it. This season, the oppor­tunity just arose and I took it." 
"I think Mary has steadily improved since the first moment she's stepped on campus." Brown said, "Early on this sea­son, the team didn't have a good offense. Since the [Sept. 231 match against Marquette, we've been able to improve and dis­tribute our sets better. I think Mary's a big part of that." 
"Mary's been a bigger pres­ence on the court this season," senior hitter Jaimie Lee remarked. "Her blocking has been tremendous, especially during the Houston match last week. She plays with a lot of emotion, which is important at this point in the season." 
Date: -1-h No'l'e.mbe.r Lt 
--r;j~' 
Location: 
NoTre, Do.fY\LJ 
Unii'e..rsit'tl­
nme: 
'tpm-33prn 
Call for Details: 
Aiph"'-E'pS.1lon De,\h}._, ge_ 
2..1-Z..-ct\35 
~ 
our course. 
~ 
www.kaplan.com 



Blue/Gold 
continued from page 24 
One of the concerns for MacLeod was the execution and lack of patience in the halfcourt game: 
"I told the kids afterwards, 'We were a defensive team's delight.' We came down and shot after one pass and no one had to work defensively," MacLeod s~id. "So that's an area we really need to work 
on.t' 
One of the pleasant surpris­es of last night's scrimmage came in the form of the fresh­man from Kenya, Peter Okwalinga, who scored eight points. 
"He was very active," MacLeod said. "We know that he can offensive rebound and run the floor. So this was encouraging." 
Some of the other freshman made some noise, especially Ingelsby. 
"I thought Martin played very well," MacLeod said. "He was very effective; he showed great strength and excellent conditioning and a willing­ness to penetrate and shoot the ball." 
While Ingelsby looked com­fortable, Williamson and Hans Rasmussen showed some of their youth. 
"Leviticus had good moments. He's not in shape 

. yet but he obviously has tal­ent," Macleod noted. "This kind of a pace and physical type play is new to him, but I have high hopes for him." 
"Hans had a rough shooting night, but the four (freshman) showed that they were active and competitive and in pretty good shape." 
Obviously the most striking aspect of the scrimmage was Garrity on the bench, but his injury is not serious and he would have likely played if it were a regular season game. 
''I'm not concerned right now," MacLeod said. "But if he continues to sit, I'm going to be very concerned. Our first game against Athletes in Action is right around the corner and he has to be sharp." 
"He wants to go, but it depends on if he's sore," MacLeod explained. 'There's no sense in putting him out there and making it worse. Maybe in this case rest is the answer." 
Irish fans certainly hope rest is the answer, as Macleod has other questions that need to be answered. 
Dillon and lngelsby need to continue to improve in order to fill Admore White's shoes. 
The Irish only have one true center in Phil Hickey and though he looked sharp last night, it is still questionable if he can be a Big East center. 
Macleod will continue to look for solutions to these issues when the Irish host Athletes in Action Nov. 9. 


-

~----~-"----..--~-----~ ----~--~--~-------~--­
page 22 The Observer • SPORTS Thursday, October 30, 1997 
• COLLEGE fOOTBALL 


McCoy relishes opportunity to be role model 

By SCOTT STRASEMEIER 
Navy Sporrs Information Director 
Houston Rockets forward Charles Barkley claims he is not a role model. He has said over and over again that par­
ents should be the role models in a young ma.n or woman s life. 
N a v v quarterback Chris McCoy 

has a totally McCoy different view than Barkley. He sees himself in a position where he can make a difference in young peoples' lives and relishes the opportunity. He knows that kids will listen to him because he is the starting quarterback at the Naval Academy. 
"Athletes have more of an impact on how young people act and react to situations than anyone else," said McCoy. "Where I grew up there were not a lot of positive young role models, even though there were a lot of good athletes. I wanted to be able to do some­thing with my life and be a role model for kids to look up to. That is very important to me." 
McCoy found out at an early age that it was okay to be dif­ferent, that he didn't have to do things just because every­one else was doing them. 
"I just wanted to be myself and not try to fit in and do things that I didn't want to do," said McCoy. "I wanted to do the best I could do in school and in athletics and try to encourage other young people to be themselves and do what they want to do. 
"There is a· lot of opportunity out there in the world and where I am from, in rural south Georgia, a lot of the peo­ple can't see past the next day. They don't think about long range goals and how things that they do now affect their future." continued McCoy. 
Now that McCoy has become a success, he loves talking to kids back in Morris and in the Annapol is/B al tim ore/ Washington area. He enjoys going to schools and talking to kids about their futures and what they need to do to accom­plish their goals. 

UNIVERSITY CLUB OF NOTRE DAME 

Is accepting membership applications for Notre Dame & Saint Mary's College 
& 

Holy Cross Faculty 

-and full--time staff. 
Dues = $50 per year 
Call 631A678 for membership applications or for more information 
"I have a responsibility as a midshipman and as an athlete to be a role model," said McCoy. "If I can reach just one kid and turn his life around, then everything that I have done will be worth it. It gives me a chance to give back to the community and to the sport I love to play." 
Given McCoy's success at quarterback, kids listen to him with great interest and respect. 
"They see me on TV and read things in the paper about how successful we are as a team, and kids respect that," said McCoy. "I instantly have their attention, and once I have that attention, I try to get across to them that they can achieve anything they want to. I wasn't the smartest kid in my school or the best athlete; I was just an average person who worked hard and now look what I have accomplished. I have evidence that you can achieve anything you set your mind to because I have done it." 
McCoy, who went to Randolph-Clay High School in Cuthbert, Ga., was th_e first Division I athlete in his school's history in any sport. 
"That just shows you the mindset and the mentality of the kids in that area on what was important to them," said McCoy. "People do not stress education as much there, but my mother emphasized the importance of doing well in school at an early age." 
Since McCoy went to Navy, two other student-athletes from his high school have reached Division I status. 
Jerry Braswell is a star guard for the Wake Forest Demon Deacons and Hoy Graddy is a strong safety at the University of Florida. 
McCoy, without hesitation, credits his mother, Hosie, for everything he has accom­plished both in school and on the athletic field. 
"She was the rock of the fam­ily, the role model," said McCoy. "She taught me every­thing in life; she taught me right from wrong and put direction in my life. She always supported me and my brothers in everything we did. I can't say enough about her." 
McCoy credits his father for teaching him about hard work 
(no, not that kind of dirty book) 
€lean up on scandalously low priced dirty, dusty, and otherwise damaged books. They're abused buttotally readable. 
l!les~UI\gb Library Concourse ~~~ber 29-30; .1~97;w 


i~=~~:~~''''"'•M·,;M''-·'k'···'''··,,..;;;;;;. 
~~.00 !d : ,· =.::::: .. ·::,._::.:,=,=~=i;(.:i/:·····.... =··: ::::::!~?. >~1f¥~Wfi.1~if#:::::

%oHoh'all new&: recent 



UIJBAM PlcUMGI 
Applications are DUE 

·· .. :::::·:..:n':;:.,.:,==··.'·.=·:<:-:: .,·:·::,kb 

WED N:·esDAY, :lijo:VEM.;~'!SR in the 
esc 

McCoy from signing with Albany State. 
"My principal, Jackio Hammond, had sent some film of me to Navy and when we didn't hear back from them, we assumed they weren't interested. Albany State was actually at my high school waiting for me to sign the national letter of intent when Coach Ilickson called and asked if I would like to come up for a visit. I talked it over with my principal and mother and decided that I would like to visit. The rest is history." 
and discipline, two things that have helped him get through the Naval Academy. 
"My father was kind of quiet, he didn't say a whole lot," said McCoy. "lie instilled in us the will to work and to do things right." 
Neither one of his parents have been to Annapolis, though he expects his mother to come to the final home game. 
"They really don't leave home too much, especially my father," said McCoy. "lie is really reserved, a wilderness type person. lie roally isn't a big sports fan." 

McCoy says he got the love of sports from his oldest brother, Dante, and younger brother, Lacy. 
"All we did was play sports all day. There was nothing else to do but play sports. We didn't have any leagues or anything like that to play in. We just played against each other," said McCoy 
The Naval Academy is very lucky to have McCoy. It took a last second call from Navy coach Frank Hickson to stop Thursday, October 30, 1997 

The Observer • TODAY page 23 

MEN ABOUT CAMPUS 
HtY or!o L JVS/ 5o"'1 t: '700 {) 'E5 foR !HE TR!C K-oR-TREATE/?S.1 

'------=-c.---.----c=-1 
MOTHER GOOSE & GRIMM 
DILBERT 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 28 Forum matter 29 Medoc, merlot,
1 Breeze 5 Appetizer for etc. 
32 SurpassedJuan 34 Hacked it, as a9Cornrows highwayalternative engineer?

13 Summer cabin 36 1986 Worldsite Series stadium 
14Cura<tao 39 Long Marchneighbor 
leader 16 Cherokee, for 
40 Smeltery input one 41 Hacked it, as a 
17 Suffix with sinus 
candlemaker? 18 Two of a 60's 
46 Informal hatrack quartet 
47 Medal recipient 19 Loads 
48 Prefix with 20 Hacked it, as a pressure farmer? 51 Literary inits. 23 Script scraper 52 Dawn deity 24Ciing to 54 Lily-livered 25 Bill Nye's subj. 56 Hacked it, as a on TV pelican? 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
mineral 11 Monogramma­tic car of old 
12Choose 15 Perspicacious 21 Sister of Zeus 22 Eagerly excited 26Grant 27 Middle of a 
mensis 

30 Sample ':":"t=+::+.-t 31 Secret supply -=+=+:=-+:::-i 33 Academic 
handle 60 Salalah's land 62 "Vive --!" 63 Restrain 64 [Get the joke?] 65 Microscopy 


supply 66 Inventor Elisha 67 "Don't be 
startled" &a Some are horned 69 Lt. Columbo et al. 
DOWN 
1 Deli need 2 John Muir's 

interest 3 Muscular dogs 4 Rats, gnats, etc. 5 Like some jeans 
legs 6 80's-90's writer 
Saroyan 7 Kind of platter a Discompose 9 Open, but just 
DAN SULLIVAN YOUR HOROSCOPE 

Z uco 1 !HES[ !1RE C/qf1RETIES l Aries: Avoid group activitins that require stuffing your ego 
back into its cave. Any hint of self­

YEAH I MAb£ 
SURE lo ti£T 
promotion could bn taken as an 

Li(jH/s Jvs -r 
act of aggression. Generosity 
invites trouble today. 

l!v' CASE THEY 
Taurus: Today you feel strong

biD;v'15/'10Kc 
enough to publicly announcfl your secret romance. Appearancp,s matter more than you think thny should. It only takes one not~> to turn discord into harmony. 
Gemini: Explanations go nowhere today. Friends, co-work­ers. or neighbors refuse to accept what is glaringly obvious to you. Save your breath for a time when people arc more willing to listen. 
Cancer: Your job today is to romance and enlightnn the world. By trading on commonly accnptcd hopes and imagns, you can befriend nven the grouchiest, most antisocial people. Selness ambi· tion makes you bnautiful. 
Leo: Others arc giving you a hard time no matter which way you turn. Look in the mirror to remind yourself what attitude you're wearing today. Selfish plea­sures come at a high price. 
Virgo: You are quick on the SCOTT ADAMS 

REbS. 
draw today, shooting from the hip with precise aim. You have the right words for every situation. Your restless mind !P.ads you easi­ly from one thing to another. 
Libra: Your place in the com­munity may rely too much on appearances and not enough on 

Puzzle by Cathy Mlllhauser 
34 Handle without 
care 
35 Sharpen 
36 Try for a fly 
37 Geiger of Geiger counter fame 
38 Pop music's Gloria and Emilio 
42 Flake (off) 
43 Longhaired fad dolls 44Scamps 45 "Watch out!" 
48 Do the Wright 57 Black and wet thing 58Tie 49 Larry Bird was 59 Labor 
one 60 Have a tab 50 But 61 Veterans' 53 Handle concern, 
55 Prior's superior briefly 
Wanted: Reporters, 
Answers to any three clues in this puzzle 
photographers and editors. are available by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420-5656 (75¢ per minute). 
Join The Observer staff. 
Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7 -ACROSS. 
substance. Begin reinvP.nting yourself with a day of total hon­esty bntween you and your part­ner. Trust yoursnlf and everything else will follow. 
Scorpio: Everything you do gcn­nrates intens!l hnat today. Thnre is no need to be a tnam playnr ­you are the nntire tnam1 i\ victory proves to be only the first step toward a glorious destiny. 
Sagittarius: You are easily overwhnlmPd today. Hivers am too deep, and mountains are too high. Stay horne and takn an imaginary journey. Telecommute if at all possible -you may get lost on the way to work. 
Capricorn: i\n old idfm is given an electric jolt by a fresh approach. Demonstrate your poli­tics without explaining them today. Anyone can spout thB party line, but actions arn far more con­vincing. 
Aquarius: Single peopln ff~el lonely watching others warm and cozy with lovers or families. Partnered people have a pang of doubt that all their needs are being met. If unprepared to act, distract yourself until thP. mood passes. 
Pisces: Today you are a tribal shaman. channeling mystic forces that no one else can handle. You have a profound understanding o your place in the world. Imagery conveys meaning more powerfully than words. 

-
ACOUSTIC CAFE • 9-midnight • in the huddle • Thursday October 30 

Open Mic-Coffeehouse 
showcasing student talent and featuring music. poetn,J ond other special acts. Refreshments will be served and admission is FREE. so come on out and enjol,J! lafun Ballroom Monday, Nov. 3 
7-lOpm e 

(. 
. ·l..J.­






SPORTS 
page 24 Thursday, October 30, 1997 
• MEN'S BASKETBALL 

Irish go head to head in Blue/Gold scrimmage 
Hoopsters take to the court in preparation for upcoming season 
By JOE CAVATO Assistant Sports Editor 

After a peek at the 1997-98 Notre Dame basketball team at Midnight Madness a couple of weeks ago, last night's Blue and Gold scrimmage gave Irish fans a better look at what head
.. 
coach John MacLeod has to work with for the upcoming season. 
Among the spectators at the scrim­mage was 1997 Big East player of the year Pat Garrity, who sat out with a sore arch in his right foot. 
With many ups and downs in a 67-52 Gold win, the scrimmage was what can be expected from a team at this stage of the year. The Gold squad was led by Derek Manner. Antoni Wyche, and Jimmy Dillon over the Blue squad with Phil Hickey, Martin Ingelsby, and Leviticus Williamson. 
"We needed this," MacLeod said. "We needed a game between our first practice and Athletes in Action. We had a lot of rough spots; we had some good spots." 
One of those good spots was junior crnter Phil Hickey, who netted a game­high 25 points and 14 rebounds. The only true center on the roster dominat­ed things in the paint with his superior size. 
Also leading the way offensively was senior Derek Manner with 15 points 1 and 10 rebounds and junior guard 
• FooTBALL 

Jackson's number is called 
By JOE CAVATO Assistant Sports Editor 
He's watched two full sea­sons and half of another from the sidelines on gameday, and he's had his time at practice. Now, junior quarterback 

.. 
\.. 
Jarious Jackson is getting his snaps on Saturday in prepara­tion to take over as the top signal caller next season. 
In Notre Dame's 52-20 thrashing of the Boston College Eagles, for the first time in his career, Jackson 

The Observer/Brandon Candura 
Jarious Jackson will continue to see more time at the helm of the offense. 

t. vs. Navy, November I, I :30 p.m. #"'ll vs. Michigan, \~ October 31, 7:30 p.m. 
J 
vs. Michigan State, 
~ 
:; ~ .. October 31, 7 p.m. 
at Villanova, ~ October 31, 7 p.m. 
Antoni Wyche, who worked hard to get his 19 points. 
Sophomore Jimmy Dillon and fresh­man Martin lngelsby were the floor generals, and both looked solid and appear to be able to fill the void left by Admore White. 
Dillon finished with six assists and eight points, while Ingelsby showed the ability to hit the open shot, nailing two three-pointers on his way to 14 points and four assists. 
"Martin and Jimmy did a good job pushing the ball," MacLeod pointed out. "They were some of the bright spots." 
The teams played two 20-minute halves with a running clock in the sec­ond half, which held the scoring down as the score at the break was 45-36 Gold. 
"Overall we're not in basketball shape yet to sustain a 40-minute war," MacLeod said. 
Although MacLeod's top gun, Pat Garrity, was seen in street clothes because of a foot injury that has caused him to miss about six workouts, MacLeod is not concerned yet, and last night's game forced others to step up their play and look to pick up the slack. 
"Actually it was good for us to play without Garrity because they can't be looking to him as a crutch, and look to No. 53 to bail us out," MacLeod said. "So Phil had to step up and Antoni and Martin had to step up. We need other 
players because there will be gameswhere other guys have to step up and not be bashful about shooting the ball." 
see BLUE/GOLD I page 21 
played in a game that was not completely out of hand or just in short yardage situations. 
His performance was nearly perfect, going 3-for-4 for 56 yards, engineering two touch­down drives and scoring one in the second quarter. 
"Obviously, I'm happy with the chance to play," the junior said. "It's good to know tho coaches feel comfortablo to put me in and have confidonc!~ in me." 
Although Jackson has not taken reigns of the Notre Dame offense quite yet, as Davie emphasizes that Ron Powlus is the starting quarterback, Jackson says he is ready when called upon for the chances that he gets. 
"When I go in for a series, I try to go in as propared as I can because it's not all the time I get a chance to play," Jackson said. 
Davie oxplainod that this w!1ekend against Navy, his game plan con­cnrning the quartorback situation will be similar. Jackson will probably see 
see JARIOUS I page 18 

at Big East Tournament, • Navy QB McCoy the real deal 
~ 

g,-., g,., ~ 
~ 
November I 
'C 

see page 22 
Volleyball at Calvin ...... 
College, October 31 

ri:J •Leffers in middle ofIrish volleyball 
Soccer vs. Goshen College, 

see page 21 
October 31, 3 p.m. 
~ 
~~~~~~ 
111 

The Observer/John Da1ly 
Derek Manner takes it to the hoop as the Irish return to basics at the Blue/Gold scrimmage. 
• JOCK STRIP 


Taking trash talking back to the dumps 
M
y column, "Jock Strip," appears every other week in the sports section. On the week that my ~-:--~-'"!'!'-~ c 0 1 u m n John Coppollella does not SportsWriter 
appear, Gene Brtalik writes his column for ''Jock Strip." Usually Brtalik does the col­umn justice by writing about factual and appropriate sub­jects in college athletics. HQwever, his last article, "Trash Talk Nothing But Bad Attitude'' {Oct. 17, 1997), was an embarrassment to the col­umn. 
Brtalik's portrayal and sub­sequent condemnation of the Notre Dame hockey team is not only puzzling, but also invalid. After berating the hockey program for what he deems was an unsuccessful season last year, Brtalik directly implicates the mem­bers of the sophomore class as well as a "left-handed bas­ketball player" (there are no left-handed basketball play­ers on the Irish basketball team) for their alleged poor sportsmanship. His motiva­
a; 

tion in doing this is unclear: is it a personal vendetta against the team, or a,re they just random scapegoats dreamed up by Brtalik? As a team that receives at most one-tenth of the acclaim and praise that the football team does, it might seem logical to pick on the hockey team and praise the football team. Not that the football team is com­pletely free of sin -Brtalik concedes that there are "players who are really con­ceited [but they} are rather low on the depth chart." Although the memcbers of the hockey team are not con­ceited, if they were. they would be justified in acting in such a manner since they, as well as nearly every other sport on campus, are viewed as low on the depth chart when compared to the foot­ball team. 
I especially enjoyed Brtalik's view that unsports­manlike attitudes are accept­ed, and his example, "There are only two teams on cam-
see JOCK STRIP I page 18 

I I l 


---------------~-----·~......-.--­
----.,.-­
Irish Insider· STATISTICALLY SPEAKING Friday, October 31, 1997 

FIGHTIN' IRISH 
MIDSHIPMEN  
Receiving  Yds  Avg  TO  Avg/G  
12-2  Butts  160 16.0  2  26.7  
Penalties-Yards  29-243  Metcalf  87  12.4  2  14.5  
Team Statistics  Navy  Opp  Average Per Game  8.4  Mill  63  9.0  0  10.5  
Points Per Game  29.8  18.5  Average Per Punt  37.2  McGrew  114 19.0  0  19.0  
First Downs  110  84  Time Of Possession/Game30:51  Wolf  4  123 30.8  0  20.5  
Rushing  82  41  3rd Down Percentage  32%  40%  
Passing  22  36  4th Down Percentage  45%  30%  Punt Returns  No  Yds  Avg  TO  Long  
Penalty  6  7  Mill  14  139  9.2  0  21  
Rushing Yardage  1542  761  Individual Statistics  
Rushing Attempts  317  248  Interceptions  No  Yds  Avg  TO  Long  
Average Per Rush  4.9  3.1  Passing  Effie  Att-Cmp-lnt Pet Yds  TO  Avg/G  Wilson  3  96  32.0  1  95  
Average Per Game  267.0  126.4  McCoy  115.2 80-36-3  45.0 693  4  97.2  Cooley  1  15  15.0  0  15  
TO's Rushing  14  2  Holley  138.2 2-1-0  50.0 21  0  7.0  Kane  1  22  22.0  0  22  
Passing Yardage  604  904  
TO's Passing  4  8  Rushing  No  Yds  Avg  TO  Long  Avg/G  Kick Returns  No  Yds  Avg  TO  
Total Offense  2146  1665  McCoy  118  631  4.7  8  57  93.2  McGrew  9  273  30.3  0  
Total Plays  399  358  Cannada  70  323  4.6  3  17  53.7  Vereen  7  128  18.3  0  
Average Per Play  3.5  5.2  Dingle  33  168  5.0  1  43  27.3  Nelson  5  57  11.4  0  
Average Per Game  357.7  277.8  Metcalf  24  160  6.3  0  22  26.3  Wolf  6  6.0  0  6  The Observer/Brandon Candura  
Kickoff Return Average  19.7  19.7  McGrew  17  123  7.1  0  33  20.2  Metcalf  12  12.0  0  12  Chris McCoy has rushed for 631 yards and  
eight touchdowns this year.  

INTRODUCES ... 



A NEW SUSHI BAR 
"Sushi is an ancient Japanese culinary tradition and art form-one that we are proud to continue, right here at Martin's. Prepared fresh daily right before your 
eyes, sushi is unique, healthy and delicious! We offer several varieties of sushi including the California Roll (with shrimp, avocado cucumber, and spicy sauce), and the Vegetarian Special (with cucumber, avocado, and carrot) to name a few. A not-so-raw fact about sushi is that the word means 'seasoned rice'. The rice, blended with fish and vegetables, is wrapped in a delicious sheet of toasted seaweed (nori) and sliced into bite sized pieces. It can also be easily prepared for vegetarian tastes." 
Many options and sizes are available, such as the Traditional 
New 

Caesar Salad, the Broiled Chicken Caesar, and the Shrimp Caesar, all available with The Works. 
Caesar 

Create your own salads to your own taste, boasting with fresh veggies, crisp romaine, tasty chicken or 

Salad 

shrimp and freshly grated Parmesan cheese. 
in our Martin's Super Market store located at St. Road 23 and Ironwood, South Bend 
I 

The Observer/Brandon Candura Last week, Raki Nelson had a career-best six receptions for 11 0 yards. 
Long  
Sanson  45  
Individual Statistics  Cengia  20  
NO  Opp  
23.0  22.4  Rushing  At!  Yds  Avg  TO  Long  Avg/G  Punt Returns  No  Yds  Avg  TO  Long  
First Downs  179  169  Denson  174  764  4.4  7  50  95.5  Rossum  10  44  4.4  0  12  
Rushing  76  75  Stokes  34  178  5.2  0  17  25.4  Denson  3  24  8.0  0  13  
Passing  86  81  Barry  21  116  5.5  0  23  14.5  
Penalty  17  13  Driver  28  96  3.4 3  12  12.0  Interceptions  No  Yds  Avg  TO  Long  
Rushing Yardage  1353  1417  Goodspeed 18  81  4.5 0  14  27.0  Minor  2  37  18.5  0  33  
Rushing Attempts  333  326  Guilbeaux  2  25  12.5  0  25  
Average Per Rush  4.1  4.3  Passing  Effie  Att-Cmp-lnt  Pet  Yds  TO Avg/G  Rossum  1  1  1.0  0  1  
Average Per Game  169.1  177.1  Powlus  128.23 236-153-6  64.8  1649 7  206.1  
TO's Rushing  14  15  Jackson  192.60  4-3-0  75.0  56  0  18.7  Kick Returns  No  Yds  Avg  TO  Long  
Passing Yardage  1705  1599  Rossum  14  451  32.2  2  93  
TO's Passing  7  5  Receiving  No  Yds  Avg  TO  Avg/G  Driver  9  174  19.3  0  49  
Total Offense  3058  3016  Brown  36  420  11.7  4  52.5  Denson  5  93  18.6  0  33  
Total Plays  574  557  Johnson  33  434  13.2  1  54.3  
Kickoff Return Average  23.9  20.3  Denson  29  183  6.3  1  22.9  Defensive  UT  AT  Tot  ForLoss Scks/Yds. lost  
Punt Return Average  5.2  9.8  Nelson  19  235  12.4  0  29.4  Friday  36  39  75  0  1.0-5  
In! Return Average  12.6  13.3  Barry  9  91  10.1  0  11.4  Dansby  33  32  65  7-25  1.5-26  
Fumbles-Lost  7-3  8-4  Minor  40  17  57  6-12  1.5-14  
Penalties-Yards  54-510  61-551  Punting  No  Yds  Avg  Long  TB  120  Bryant  28  25  53  4-7  3.0-17  
Time of Possession/Game 30:56  29:03  Smith  32  1421  44.4  64  5  9  Guilbeaux  34  19  53  4-13  1.0-6  

' 

Friday, October 31, 1997 Irish Insider • THE MATCH-UPS 


IRISH ON THE OFFENSIVE••• 
page 3 

Quarterbacks 
McCoy is one of the most dangerous in the land, averaging 4.5 yards a carry, and he has won a bowl game, something Powlus has never done. 
Running Backs 
There are few carries to go around with 

• McCoy as the main 
threat. Tim Cannada has tallied 322 yards, but Denson is closing in on the 1,000 plateau. 
Receivers 
Although successful when they've gone to
• 

the air, Midshipmen receivers have caught only 37 passes this year. Meanwhile, Notre Dame's corps has been a bright spot this year. 
Offensive Line 
Ranked fifth nationally in rushing, the Navy line must be doing a lot 

right. The Irish unit has looked better recently and usually dominates the Middies. Defensive Line 
Teams have struggled· on the ground ....5 .....uJLv the Midshipmen, aver­aging just 126.8 yards rushing per. game. Navy is led by the 6-foot-5, 275-pound David Vigler. 
Linebackers 
Bobbie Howard cer­tainly makes a differ­
• 

ence in the middle of the defense, and this unit is starting to gel behind Minor. Its play will be critical in shutting down the triple option. 
Special Teams 
Rossum is awesome again, but Navy coun­ters with Pat McGrew, sixth in the nation in retuns. The adventures in placekicking give the edge to Navy. 
Coaching 
In the '96 season, Weatherbie gave Navy its first bowl victo since 1978 and was named CBS coach of the year. 
Overall Davie is in dire need of a win streak, and the team 

• is coming off an impres­
. sive win. Navy is think­ing upset and is looking to end its 33­game losing streak to ND. 

"Ifit ain't broke, don't fix it" is 
Bob Davie's new motto. After success against Boston College, he has decided to stay with two quarterbacks, which appears to be working for his team. 
"I think we go into it with the same plan," Davie said about his quarterback calling. "I'd like to see Jari.ous play in the first half, get a series or two in the first half. I think it's pretty much the same plan. It obviously worked well." 
The duo of Ron Powlus and Jarious Jackson threw Boston College's defense for a loop last week. By continually rotating quarterbacks, the Irish offense once again proved itself a formi­dable opponent. Notre Dame racked up 526 yards of total offense last weekend. 
The two combined for 323 yards in the air. Jackson saw lim­
T
he wishbone offense. No three words in Webster's dictionary bring about more fear and anguish in the psyche of the Notre Dame defense. Indeed, just the thought of facing an option running game is enough to make Bob Davie quiver. 
"When you play a wishbone team, the thing that's so different is just the rhythm of the game," said Davie. 
"They keep the ball for extended periods. So what it does, it causes your offense to panic a little bit because they don't feel like they're going to get many possessions." 
In past years, the option running attack has not agreed with the Irish defense. Last season, Beau Morgan shredded the Irish for 183 yards as Air Force marched into Notre Dame Stadium and shocked the home team. 
Two years ago, Army, led by its lightning-quick quarterback Ronnie McAda, came within an eyelash of pulling off a similar upset over Notre Dame. Only a "career saving" tackle by Ivory Covington on a two-point conver­sion attempt kept the Cadets iTom victory. 
Thus, despite a 33-game win­ning streak against Navy, Davie and the Irish have plenty of rea­sons to be worried. The biggest comes in the form of quarterback Chris McCoy. 
McCoy enters Saturday's contest having rushed for an astounding 2,590 career yards, a 4.5 average per carry. He tied an NCAA record by running for touchdowns on three consecutive carries in the first quarter against Rutgers. 
"He's a dangerous player that can break a long run at any point in a game," said Irish linebacker ited playing time but completed 3 of 4 passes for 56 yards. 
His counterpart had a success­ful outing, completing 18 of 31 for 267 yards and two touchdowns. Powlus connected with Raki Nelson on a 44-yard pass to post the day's longest reception. Nelson, who had six receptions for 110 yards, will get the nod this weekend, filling in for the injured Malcolm Johnson at the split end position. 
The ground attack had a strong showing, chalking up 203 yards. Autry Denson led the way with 81 yards and a touchdown. 
"I think we've continued to run the ball better," Davie said. "You know, when you watch us on tape, you can see that the offen­sive line is more in sync with what we're doing. We're not tippy-toeing quite as much. We're a little bit more in sync 


I 

with calls and the adjustments." 
Despite the improved perfor­mance against the Eagles, the Irish still remain concerned about the lack of scoring in the third quarter. Thus far this season, the team's opponents have scored a total of 51 points, while the Irish have scored a measly 13. 
"The third quarter continues to be a concern although we broke through it a little bit Saturday," Davie said. 
In the third quarter, the Irish relied on a 20-yard field goal by Scott Cengia to post some points on the board. 
With a majority of offensive aspects coming together, the Irish plan to build off their last perfor­mance, but the team still realizes a lot of kinks must be worked out in order to make it a well oiled machine. 
-Kathleen Lopez 

••• MIDSHIPMEN ON THE OFFENSIVE 
The Irish will be forced to take him on without starting defensive end Brad Williams. The sopho­more injured his ankle last week against Boston College and will be replaced by senior Kurt Belisle. 
"Kurt Belisle has played well this year, so I don't think it will be a problem," said Davie. "Our biggest concern on defense is Chris McCoy and their offense." 
Or that it could be Beau Morgan all over again. 
-Mike Day 


Kory Minor. "We cannot afford to let up against a guy like him." 
A year ago, the Irish defense completely took McCoy out of the game, limiting him to minus 16 yards on 13 carries. However, it's important to note that Morgan was held to 40 yards against the Irish in 1995 before erupting for 183 just 10 months later. 
"This system is made for Chris McCoy," said Navy coach Chuck Weatherbie. "He has great quick­ness and strength." 

-~--~------~--·-~---·~-­
page 4 Irish Insider • COVER STORY Friday, October 31, 1997 
Minor Contributions 

By BETSY BAKER 
Associate Sports Editor 
Anyone who has seen junior line­backer Kory Minor in action during a game knows the intensity with which he plays. One look into his eyes is enough to make opposing quarterbacks wish they had listened to their mothers when they carried on about how play­ing the clarinet can be just as fulfilling as football. 
What is so amazing about the 6-foot­1, 234-pound former USA Today defen­sive player of the year is that off the field, he is as approachable as a six­week old puppy. 
Both on and off the field, Minor is the prototype of a Notre Dame football player. 
Minor came into Notre Dame as an all-American everything, receiving accolades from all the major high school recruiting publications, and made an immediate impact for the Irish. He was recruited as a rush line­backer, but due to the fact that Bert Berry already occupied that position, in order to immediately use him, he was moved to drop linebacker. Minor start­ed all but one game against Purdue as a freshman, racking up 47 total tackles and six sacks. 
"It was really fun because during the whole recruiting process, I was told that if I came in and learned the sys­tem, I would have the opportunity to play and possibly start," Minor said. "I really didn't know what to expect, but actually, by the grace of God, I was put in a fortunate situation where I was able to start and play, and I've contin­ued ever since." 
Saying that Minor has "contributed" is an understatement. As only a fresh­man and sophomore, Minor stepped into one of the most talented Iineback­ing corps in Irish history and held his own with the big boys. In fact, Minor credits Berry, Kinnon Tatum, and Lyron Cobbins for much of the guidance that has gotten him thus far. 
"''m glad I've had the opportunity. It's really a credit to all the guys that were ahead of me, that shaped me," Minor said. 
However, there is only so much that guidance can do until sheer talent takes over. 
Minor's ability extends from an omni­scient read on opposing offenses to an adaptability that fills in any possible voids left by his own defense. He is 





In A Major Wa 
able to come up with the big play, but more importantly can always be count­ed on to do his job. 
"Kory's a very talented football play­er." defensive coordinator Greg Mattison commented. "In every defense that is successful, you have to have a guy that is capable of making big plays, but still play within the scheme of the defense. Kory has that capability. He's the one guy that if you sit there on the sidelines and say 'We need a sack,' or 'We need an intercep­tion,' or 'We need a fumble recovery,' he's the guy you're hoping it will end up happening with, because you know he's gonna be in the position to do it." 
His presence has been especially essential this year as he has been called upon by the Irish to lead an undersized and inexperienced defense. With a knee injury to Bobbie Howard, Minor was left bringing in the plays for the Irish defense, a difficult job consid­ering his position as outside linebacker and the time he needs to set up after the huddle. However, as head coach Bob Davie and the rest of the Irish coaching staff knows, there are no two hands he'd rather put his defense in than those of Minor. 
Thus far this year. those hands have brought in 56 total tackles, including 38 unassisted tackles and six for a loss. Minor continues to develop as a player, and with a year and a half left, the sky is the limit. 
"I think Lover the last three years] I've become more of an all-around player," Minor commented. "The drop­back position entails you to do a lot more things than a normal position, and I think I've taken it on pretty well. I think I've learned to read offenses a lot more, understand defense a lot more, and know what the whole team is doing, and I really enjoy it." 
Much of Minor's strength on the· field comes from a poise and confidence he possesses off the field. Minor attributes the talent and success he has had in his life to a strong relationship with God and his family. These two relationships have gotten him through this season especially, as Minor and the Irish have both encountered unexpected adversi­ty. 
"I think for me, a lot of praying [has gotten me through this season]. My faith is real powerful," Minor said. "My whole belief -in whatever happens, good or bad -is that God has done things for a reason." 
The Observer/Brandon Candura Kory Minor has found his way into the middle of many defensive plays for the Irish as he is the only member of the linebacker corps with significant experience prior to this year. 
In the end, Minor wants to be remem­bered for what he does off the field as much as what he does on the field. Although at the rate he is going, it will be difficult for anything to overshadow his onfield accomplishments, his outgo­ing demeanor and approachable atti­tude balance the athletic side of him. 
One person he doesn't have to con­vince is Mattison. 
"Kory is a wonderful young man," Mattison said. "That's what makes him special. He's not only a talented foot­ball player, but he's a good person. I really believe that if someone can label you as a good person, that is worth everything. And if someone were to ask me, 'What kind of guy is Kory Minor?' l would say, 'He's a very good person."' 

That statement lies at the heart of Minor's goal for his stay at Notre Dame. 
"I want people to look at me and say, 'Besides being an athlete, he was a nice person,"' Minor said. "He took time to talk to you. He took time for the fans, to do autographs or take pictures. I just want people to see me as a person who goes out his way for other people." 
Whether it is going out of the way to intercept an opposing quarterback's pass or going out of the way to help someone in need, Kory Minor will not be forgotten any time soon. 
After being moved to drop linebacker freshman year, Kory Minor's impact has been seen all over the field. Minor has started all but one game in his career with the Irish. 

Irish Insider • THE TEAMS page 5 
Irish linebacker corps 
By season's end, Midshipmen signal caller to duplicate Morgan's performance and avenge 
Chris McCoy will rank fifth all-time in career last season's 54-27 loss to the Irish. 
rushing yards by a quarterback. Meanwhile, Notre Dame linebackers Kory 
Last season, Air Force quarterback Beau Minor, Jimmy Friday, and Bobbie Howard will 
Morgan, also dangerous at the helm of the attempt to match the effort of the 1996 defense 
wishbone offense, ran for 183 yards in the that limited McCoy to minus 18 yards on 13 car­
Falcons' 28-17 upset ot the Irish. McCoy hopes ries. 
1st 
3rd
season season
at at Navy
Notre 
Dame 

Career record: 3-5 Career record: 32-23-0 
At Notre Dame: 3-5 At Navy: 17-12 
Against Navy: 0-0 Against Notre Dame: 0-0 
Name Pas. Ht. YR No. Name Pos. Ht. WI. YR Deke Cooper FS 6·3 so 1 Jake Bowen LB 6-2 226 SO Benny Guilbeaux SS 6-1 JR 
... .··.:.··· 2 Gerald Wilson DB 5-11 196 SR Ron Powlus QB 6-3 SR 
3 Enrico Hunter DB 5-11 191 JR Kory Minor OLB 6-1 JR 
John Vereen SB

TAilBACK~· :: 4 5-9 186 SO
Z3-Dell8on · · 'A ., 5 Steve Holley QB 6-1 190 SO Malcolm Johnson SE 6-5 213 SR A'jani Sanders SS 5-11 JR 32~Stokes .· " • 6 Gervy Aloia DB 5-10 190 SR
o ' 
7 Chris McCoy QB 5-10 191 SR 

8 Eric Chappell QB 6-4 213 so 7 Jarious Jackson QB 6-0 219 JR 
8 Ted Kribs WR 6-0 193 JR 9 Raki Nelson FL 5-11 189 so 
9 Emmanuel Allen DB 6-0 180 JR 10 Deveron Harper CB 5-11 185 so 
1 0 Rashad Smith DB 6-0 205 SR 11 Jay Johnson SE 6-0 186 so 
11 Travis Williams WR 6-4 185 SO 12 Scott Cengia K 5·1 0 181 SR 
13 Jason Covarrubias KS 5-1 0 181 SR 12 Mario Strayhorn OLB 6-1 214 JR 
14 Denis Kane DE 6-5 225 SR 13 Jimmy Friday ILB 6-2 227 JR 
15 nm Shubzda K 6·0 191 SO 14 Ivory Covington CB 5·1 0 169 SR 
16 ChrisOiiver DB 5-11 175 SO 15 Allen Rossum CB 5-8 179 SR 
17 MarkMill WR 6-0 181 JR 16 Zak Kustok QB 6-2 190 FR 
18 Adam Grecian DB 6-0 200 JR 17 )-lunter Smith P 6-2 210 JR 
19 Jon Umbert QB 5-10 195 JR 18 Cikai Champion SE 5-10 183 SR 
20 Matt Nelson SB 5-10 200 SO 18 Joey Getherall WR 5-9 165 FR 
21 Rick Conlin DB 5·11 190 JR 19 Jim Sanson K 5-9 179 so 
22 Desmond Morgan DB 5-10 202 JR 19 Wayne Gunn OLB 6-2 210 JR 
23 Brian Kennedy QB 5-11 180 JR 20 Kevin Kopka K 5-7 214 JR 
24 Jamie Dofferrnyre FS 6-1 185 SO 20 Byron Joyner FS 6-1 188 JR 
25 Manny Metcalf SB 6-0 186 JR 21 Shannon Stephens FL 5-10 175 JR 
26 nm Cannada FB 5-1 0 195 SR 22 Jay Vickers TB 5-11 218 so 
28 Matt Shubzda DB 6-1 202 SR 23 Autry Denson TB 5·1 0 164 JR 
29 Sean Andrews DB 5-10 185 SR 24 Ty Goode CB 5-11 164 SR 
31 John Chavous S 5-11 195 SO 25 Tony Driver TB 6-3 205 FR 
32 Brad Chatlos LB 6-0 202 JR 26 Lee Lafayette CB 5-9 189 so 
33 Jason Wolf SB 6-0 196 JR 27 Bobbie Howard ILB 5-10 228 JR 
34 Pat McGrew SB 6-0 222 SR 28 Ken Barry FB 6-0 221 SR 
35 lrv Dingle FB 5-11 213 JR 29 Cooper Rego TB 5·9 185 FR 
36 Lucas Wells S 5·8 180 SO 30 Jarvis Edison FS 6-4 221 SR 
37 Gary Lane DB 5-11 190 SO 31 Darcey Levy RB 6-2 195 FR 
38 Matt Harden FB 5-11 220 JR 32 Clement Stokes TB 6-0 205 SR 
39 Maurice White SB 5-1 0 200 SR 33 Jamie Spencer FB 6-1 248 JR 
40 Mike Wilkins DB 5-10 191 JR 34 Ronnie Nicks ILB 6·0 220 so 
41 Clark Scharrnan S 5-1 0 185 SO 35 Robert Phelps CB 6-0 189 SR 
42 Hunter Thompson DB 5-11 170 SO 36 Chris Wachtel P 5-11 207 SR 
43 Kevin Lewis DB 6-0 206 SR 36 Tim Lynch CB 5-9 177 SR 
44 Ross Drenning LB 6-2 214 JR 37 Ron Israel DB 6-1 175 FR 
45 Ivan Garvin LB 6·2 217 SO 37 Kevin Rice FB 6-0 200 SR 
46 Aaron Rigby LB 6-1 222 SR 38 Brock Williams CB 5-11 175 FR 
47 Matthew Daigneault LB 6-2 200 SO 38 Paul Grimm CB 5-9 170 SR 
48 Charles Fisher DB 6-1 200 SR 39 Anthony Denman LB 6-3 205 FR 
49 Stephen Sanders FB 5·9 195 SO 40 Jason Murray FB 6-2 235 FR 
50 Travis Cooley LB 5-11 232 SR 40 Brendan Farrell SS 5·11 215 so 
51 Matt Williams LB 6-1 210 JR 41 Joe Ferrer OLB 6-2 230 so 
52 Allen Szczepek DE 6-4 225 JR 42 Antwoine Wellington ILB 6-0 237 so 
53 Keith Mier LB 6-0 230 JR 44 Grant Irons ILB 6-5 225 FR 
54 Will Farnham OT 6-3 260 JR 45 Joey Goodspeed FB 6·0 225 so 
55 Brian Drechsler C 5-11 260 SR 45 Chris McCarthy K 5-11 205 SR 
56 Russ Tate LB 5-11 222 SR 46 Kevin Dansby LB 6·2 210 FR 
57 Chris Person DE 6-3 238 SR 47 Bill M~oulas OLB 6-1 225 • SR 
58 Jason Coffey LB 5-11 227 SR 48 Johnathan Herbert WR 5-11 194 so 
59 Tim Huber DL 6-1 220 SO 49 Joe Thomas ILB 6-2 223 JR 
60 Kostas Hatzidakis C 6-2 250 SO 50 David Payne C 6-0 281 JR 
FULLBACK 61 Christian Gaskill OS 6-0 194 JR 51 .Melvin Dansby DE 6-4 276 SR 
26·Cannada ~-~~~ 62 B.J. Spozio DL 6-2 225 JR 52 Alex Mueller OG 6-6 270 JR 
63 Kyle Turner OL 6-2 240 JR 53 Lamont Bryant OLB 6-3 243 JR 
64 Brian Brown OL 6-2 265 SO


~-·F\ 
65 Doug Martin OS 6-1 230 SO 55 Shelton Jordan DE 6-3 241 JR 54 Luke Petitgout OT 6-5 287 SR 
66 Michael Wahle OT 6-5 261 JR 56 Kurt Belisle DE 6-2 266 SR 
67 Ed Hinman Ol 6-2 250 JR 57 Rick Kaczenski C 6-4 258 SR 
68 Patrick Singleton OL 6-1 250 SO 58 Brendan O'Connor OG 6-2 294 so 
~ 69 J.D. Gainey OG 6-1 281 SR 58 Mike Burgdorf TE 6-0 205 JR 70 Matt Schroer C 6-1 235 SO 59 Matthew Kunz ILB 6-0 215 SR 71 Jarrett Davies OT 6-4 240 SO 60 Scott Fagan OLB 6-2 219 so 72 Chris Kelley OG 6-3 275 JR 62 Casey Robin OL 6-7 285 FR 73 David Loya OG 6-1 282 SR 64 John Merandi C 6-3 272 so 74 Cecil Collins C 5-7 230 SR 65 Anthony Brannan SS 5-11 194 so 75 Derek Peterson OG 6-6 300 JR 66 JW Jordan OL 6-1 284 FR 76 Brian Gray DL 6-4 231 SO 67 John Wagner OT 6-7 320 JR 77 Blaine Kindler OT 6-0 255 JR 70 nm Ridder OG 6-7 298 JR 78 Tom Vanderhorst KS 6-0 185 JR 71 Jerry Wisne OG 6-6 295 JR 79 Jared Jacobs OT 6-5 27 4 SR 72 Leon Hires OG 6-4 287 so 80 Damon Myers WR 6-2 190 JR 73 Mike Doughty OT 6-7 303 SR 81 Terry Heatherman SB 5-11 185 SO 7 4 Rob Mowl OG 6-5 294 so 83 Matt O'Donnell WR 6-1 185 SO 75 Chris Clevenger OT 6-8 312 SR 83 Maryland Hick MSJ 6-1 185 SO 76 Kurt Vollers OL 6-7 275 FR 83 Mark DeBoy Punk 5-7 135 SO 77 Brad Williams DE 6-4 266 so 84 LeBron Butts WR 6-2 201 SR 78 Jon Spickelmier C 6-3 274 SR 85 Cory Gassaway SB 5-11 190 SO 79 Mike Rosenthal OG 6-7 315 JR 86 Jesse Rehus WR 5-11 191 JR 80 Justin Smith WR 6-1 185 FR 87 Jon Fay WR 6-0 185 SO 81 Lewis Dawson SE 5-11 186 so 88 Jason Martin SB 5-7 165 SO 82 Mike Gandy TE 6-5 264 so 89 Ronel Reyes WR 5-10 175 JR 83 Justin Orr FL 6-2 233 SR 90 Lyle Walker OL 6-2 235 JR 84 Mike Denvir TE 6-4 243 SR 91 David Viger DT 6-5 275 SR 85 Antwon Jones NG 6-3 267 JR 92 Michael Ogden DE 6-1 235 SR 86 Dan O'Leary TE 6-4 243 so 93 Greg Adams DL 6-1 235 JR 87 Jabari Holloway TE 6-4 235 FR 94 Brian Wilson DE 6-2 240 SO 88 Bobby Brown FL 6-3 185 JR 95 Roger Grant DE 6-4 200 SO 90 Lance Legree NG 6-1 271 so 96 David Ryno DT 6-3 235 • SO 91 N. VanHook-DruckerDE 6-2 228 so 97 Jason Snider DT 6-3 158 JR 92 Bryan Mulvena LB 6·2 225 JR 98 Mike Marchetti DL 6-2 232 SO 93 B.J. Scott DE 6-3 267 so 99 David Rautenbach DE 6-6 220 SO 94 Andy Wisne DL 6-5 255 FR 95 Corey Bennett NG 6-1 253 SR 96 Jim Jones NG 6-2 280 so 97 Eric Glass DT 6-4 220 so 98 John Teasdale TE 6-6 255 FR 99 Jason Ching DE 6-3 235 so 
----·-~-~---:--:--~----­

page 6 Irish Insider • THE INSIGHT Friday, October 31, 1997 
.... 

• IRISH INSIGHT 
Irish hope to continue dominance over Navy 
In disappointing season, there is one streak left to salvage 
I
n recent years, the Notre Dame foot­
ball program has put together anum­
ber of impressive unbeaten streaks 
against a handful of its traditional oppo­
nents. In fact, before the final game of Lou Holtz's tenure at the University, the Irish had not lost to Southern California, Purdue, Michigan State, Pittsburgh, or Navy since 1987, 


when the Panthers Brian Reinthaler 
knocked off Lou 
Holtz's second-year Assistant Sports Editor team in Pittsburgh. The three longest streaks, 13 consec­utive games without a loss to the Trojans, 11 consecutive victories over the Boilermakers, and 33 straight wins over the Midshipmen, had been achieved against Notre Dame's most frequent opponents. The Irish have faced each of those squads in every reg­ular season since 1945. As of the present moment, however, just two of the five streaks remain. By defeating Pittsburgh three weeks ago, Notre Dame extended its dominance over the Panthers to eight straight games, but only one of the three annual opponents has yet to bring its stretch of futility against Notre Dame to an end. That team will look to do so this week­end in Notre Dame Stadium. Navy enters Saturday's showdown with possibly its best shot at stopping the skid since Gerry Faust was at the helm in South Bend. The Midshipmen are just 3-3, but led by Chris McCoy and the triple-option attack, they appear to 
pose a much more formidable challenge to the Irish than Pittsburgh and Boston College were able to offer. And the Irish appear ripe for the picking. 
Corning off its victory at Pittsburgh, Notre Dame turned in an appallingly sloppy performance at home against a mediocre Southern Cal squad. Now, fol­lowing a blowout win versus another weak Big East foe, the Irish must guard against complacency, especially with the Midshipmen coming to town. 
Navy has not come within 15 points of Notre Dame since the last Irish national championship season in 1988. However, the Midshipmen have aver­aged 23 points per game in their last four meetings with the Irish, and inter­estingly enough, that is the exact num­ber of points that Notre Dame has aver­aged in its eight games of 1997. Navy, incidentally, has put up almost 30 per game this year. 
Also, in just six games, McCoy has already racked up over 630 yards rush­ing and eight touchdowns. Add this to his four touchdown passes and 693 yards through the air, and it is not hard to see why the Irish have plenty to worry about. 
McCoy's numbers are eerily reminis­cent of those of the infamous Beau Morgan. Coming into that fateful day in Notre Dame Stadium, he had rushed for 567 yards and six touchdowns in five games. 
In the grand scheme of things, the time simply appears right for Navy to put the final touches on the destruction of the era of Irish dominance. An end to the monumental 33-game winning streak that Notre Dame currently holds would signal, once and for all, that the rebuilding of the storied Irish football program will soon be a necessity. 
A win, however, could prove that some things are indeed still sacred, and that the 1997 season may not be a lost cause. 

The Observer/Rob Finch 
Under Lou Holtz the Irish never lost to Purdue, Michigan State, or Navy. Having lost to both Purdue and,MSU already, Bob Davie and ND hope to avoid losing to Navy. 
• THE IRISH INSIDER STAFF Editor: Mike Day Associate Editor: Betsy Baker Assistant Editors: Joe Cavato, Kathleen Lopez, Brian Reinthaler Graphic Design: Tom Roland, Jon King Statistician: Jim Belden 
Production: Mark DeBoy Cover: Tom Roland, Brandon Candura Friday, October 31, 1997 

ll'iBh Expel'ts. 

Mike Day (16-12) 
Sports Editor 

Notre Dame Florida Ohio State Iowa 

Betsy Baker (18-10) 
Associate Sports Editor 
Notre Dame Florida Michigan State Iowa 

Joe Cavato (15-13) 
Assistant Sports Editor 
Notre Dame Florida Ohio State Iowa 

Kathleen Lopez {19-9) 
Assistant Sports Editor 
Notre Dame Florida Ohio State Iowa 

Brian Reinthaler (14-14) 
Assistant Sports Editor 
Notre Dame Florida Ohio State Purdue 

Dave Poulin 

Notre Dame hockey coach 
Notre Dame Florida Ohio State Purdue 

ISH INSI 


Gators look to tame Bulldogs 

Boilermakers aim to extend incredible run 
By BRIAN REINTHALER 
Assistant Sports Editor 
No. 14 Georgia at No.6 Florida 
Are the Gators back on track, or has there been a shift of power in the Southeastern Conference? The Bulldogs hope that the latter is the case as they take aim on the SEC East Division lead when they face Florida in Gainesville on Saturday. 
Steve Spurrier's troops started to turn things back around with a convincing vic­tory over Auburn two weeks ago, and now they have an opportunity to set things in the SEC straight with their third consecutive game against a ranked opponent. The Bulldogs were beaten by Tennessee for their only loss this season, but this week­end's game is the one that they have had circled on their calendars since the year began. 
Georgia has not come out on top of this matchup since 1989, and the Bulldogs have failed to hold Florida under 31 points in six of the last seven seasons. Don't expect those trends to change this year. 

No. 9 Ohio State at No. 21 Michigan State 
It was not too long ago that the Spartans were looking like potential 1997 Big Ten cham­pions. With a loss against the favored Buckeyes this week­end however, Michigan State will find itself completely out of contention and in the midst of a three-game skid. Northwestern and Michigan have made the Spartans look more than heatable in the last two weeks, and Ohio State has taken care of business against opponents that they have. been favored to beat this sea­son. 
The Buckeyes did drop a tough decision to Penn State at home earlier in the year, but the Nittany Lions remain one of the few undefeated teams in the nation. and there are no signs that there will be a change in that regard any­time soon. This is a must win for Ohio State's Rose Bowl hopes. 
Sedrick Irvin needs to improve on his 81-yard rush­ing effort of a week ago if the Spartans hope to break a four-game losing streak against the Buckeyes and remain in the top 25 for another week. 
The Observer/Brandon Candura 

Tailback Sedrick Irvin and the Michigan State Spartans will attempt to snap a two-game losing streak when 
they host No. 9 Ohio State on Saturday. 
No. 18 Purdue at No. 15 Iowa 

Since knocking off Notre Dame in their second contest of 1997, the Boilermakers have torn through the middle-range teams of the Big Ten with reckless abandon. This weekend, Purdue will up the stakes yet again, with what may end up being a season-defining matchup with the Hawkeyes. 
The Boilers will be forced to leave the friendly confines of Ross Ade Stadium in West Lafayette, where they have simply dominated opponents. Iowa may be the class act of the Big Ten's middle-tier squads, having suffered its only setbacks against power­ful Ohio State and Michigan squads. 
Those are also the only two ranked opponents that the Hawkeyes have faced this year, so there may be cause for optimism for Purdue. A win here would leave the Boilermakers just two home games away from the Big Ten championship. Purdue has scored 152 points in its last three outings, and Iowa cer­tainly has nothing against scoring points, so expect a shoot-out in this one. 
..... 
-
.. 
-

PREV 
1 2 3 5 4 6 7 8 9 10 11 13 14 16 18 17 21 22 12 23 15 24 19 
20 


TEAM RECORD 
1. Nebraska (35) 7-0 
~~ 2. Penn State (25) 6-0 3. Florida State (8) 7-0 4. Michigan 7-0 5. North Carolina 7-0 6. Florida 6-1 7. Washington 6-1 8. Tennessee 5-1~ 
9. Ohio State 7-1 10. Washington St. 7-0 11. Auburn 7-1 12. UCLA 6-2 13. Kansas State 6-1 14. Georgia 6-1 15. Iowa 5-2 16. LSU 5-2 17. West Virginia 6-1 18. Purdue 6-1 19. Oklahoma St. 6-1 20. Arizona State 5-2 21. Michigan State 5-2 22. Toledo 7-0 23. Virginia Tech 5-2 24. So. Mississippi 5-2 25. Texas A&M 5-2 
POINTS 
1704 1665 1629 1514 1507 1400 1281 1245 1233 1143 1049 942 894 789 727 714 579 522 463 444 405 290 124 64 55 

OTHERS RECEIVING VOTES: Colorado 50, Wisconsin 48, Georgia Tech 47, Rice 42, Ohio 32, BYU 26, Syracuse 23, Colorado State 17, Missouri 14, Texas Tech 7, Cincinnati 6, Air Force 5, Miami, OH 5, Alabama 4, Clemson 3, Southern Cal, Louisiana Tech 1, Mississippi 1. 


. 
. 
II
~


F ~~ 
south send 
277-5300 
1&533 ""est. C\eve\and Not.re oatOe oenverY 
sout.h send 

291-7363 
2402 e.. \re\and f\d· 
sout.h send 233-6565 401 HickorY f\oad-----­
1 
\1\1e accept

I ­
Credit Cards 
Mastercard Ameri~an Express Dtscover Visa 

I ~ 
... 
' ' 








