
Wednesday, September 24, 1997 • Vol. XXXI No. 23 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
College students 'awaken' on retreat 
By MELANIE GARMAN Saint Mary's Assistant News Editor 
As many students are making plans for the week­end, a handful of Saint Mary's women are prepar­ing for tlH~ Saint Mary's Awakening Retreat. 
The overnight retreat, which is being held at Still 
Waters farmhouse in rural Michigan, gives students the chance to spniHI 

Q ······•······

quality time with friends, away from 
~·<t 

thn daily activities 

on campus. 
"Tlw main purpose of tho retreat is to deepen God's presence in our lives," said Liz Riegnl, Liturgical Ministri!~S coordinator and retreat lnader. "God is present in our lives through prayPr, scripture. and those around us, but at times wP become so involved in our daily routines that we don't take tinw to listen or deal with the dPPpPr quPstion of his meaning in our lives." 
Tlw Saint Mary's Awakening Retreats began last yPar and grew out of initiative of the Spirituality Community LnadPrship Team. 
Many students had exprossed the desire to havo an open n~treat !'or the entire Saint Mary's commu­nity. lktrPats are hold within individual depart-
see RETREAT I page 4 
NDH engulfed by nasty stench 
Observer Staff Report 
Yesterday an overbearing bad smell engulfed North Dining Hall at lunch, and again at dinner. 
"J went in for lunch at 12:15, and there was a horrible stenciL As I walked toward the center of the dining hall, it became unbearable," said Hosanna Ventrone, a junior from Lewis who ate both mmds in the dining hall. 
There were rnporL.:; of a few students rushing out of the building and vomiting ouL.:;ide. 
While the cause of the odor was still unknown as ol' last night, Mike VanKirk, North Dining Hall man­ager, believed that it was done on purpose by stu­dents as a prank. 
''We're not positive," he said, "but each time it happened there has been a bowl in one of the microwaves of something like parmesan cheese on slow cook." 
VanKirk had no specific means of preventing surh a thing from happening again, but he did not fpeJ that it was his responsibility. 
''I guess it's really up to the students,'' he said. "If they enjoy doing pranks like this, they have to sit and endure it." 

I T he past is our teacher, the present is our potential and the future is our mission.' 
James Earl Jones 

'This ... is James Earl Jones' 
Renowned actor shares social agenda with Stepan crowd 
By MICHELLE KRUPA Associate News Editor 
"Luke, I am your father." 

This trademark phrase resounded in Stepan Center last night, uttered by the voice that made it famous ­that of James Earl Jones. 
To a crowd of r-III!'P.!I''!!PI"P.!P!IIIIIIh more than 1,250, ~ 1 ""''~ •HI Jones stepped out 
• "Jones

of' his well-known 
answers

Hollywood per­sona and shared 
student his perceptions of 
questions'' a very real world 
p.3 

on the verge of' a new millennium. 
''The problem with predictions of doom is that there arc exploiters waiting for us, to sense panie and harm innocent people who are patiently waiting around to see if the world will really end at the turn of the century,'' he said. 
"But I bi·ing you good news-you will find that we are already going through the apocalypse." 
As the world makes the transition from the 20th to the 21st century, .Jones expressed fears that the media's perception of the world is quickly becoming reality for many. 
"It is !'rom the movies that we learn how to be. Movies are like our most vivid.,.dreams; they fill a psycho­logical void. They have become real The Observer/John Daily lil'e," he said. Renowned actor James Earl Jones came to Stepan Center last night to talk 
lie said that humanity must about policies for leading the world into the 21st century. instead focus on real sociological, 
mulate a continually growing. can take the available informationeconomic and political goals. 
sharod core curriculum." and make use of it," Jones said. 
"The future is in our sons. It is our He stressed the importance of a ''I'm convinced that the only thing 

gift to our children," Jones said, 
multilingual source combining texts. keeping today's Lincolns and
making reference to his own 15­
humanities, sciences and teachers, Jeffersons from rising to the top isyear-old son. "The physical universe such as the Internet, to educate the the lack of raw, unfiltered knowl­has been created in such a way that world's youth better, and to allow edge. People need to be able to linkthe past is our teacher, the present is them to nurture their abilities fully. onto a resource and just learn," he our potential and the future is our "No one's innate talent can go continued.
mission." 
unnoticed. No one today knows Jones followed with a call for a
Attacking first the educational 

everything. What determines a per­
sphere, .Iones noted the need to "for­
son's intellectual strength is that he 
see JONES I page 4 




Student government seeks to dispel the myths 
/:'ditor's Note: This is the sec­Nass, Notre Dame's student Both schools' administrations not directly plan the ovents. ond in a j(mr-part series exam­body vice president. said that they do not specifically "If you look at the larger pic­ining relations between the "We want to set up a perma­plan events to bring students of ture, we are involved in assist­Notre !Jame and Saint Mary's nent avenue of communication the two areas together. ing student organizations in campuses. and the aspects that between the two campuses by However, by inviting all stu­planning their events," he said. strengthen or shaller the stereo­way of the leaders," said Nass. dents to participate in their pro­_"We try not to be pushing ideas types. "It started last spring with a grams, the schools do facilitate or imposing events on the stu­
leadership conference over at interaction between the cam­dent groups. That would be very By MATTHEW LOUGHRAN Saint Mary's. I met with their conference last spring, this time puses. negative. But we do offer sug­Associate News Editor vice president [Lori McKeough] on Notre Dame's campus. "Virtually all of our programs gestions about things that could "We plan on continuing with be programmed and those
and Matt [Griffin, Notre Dame are for both groups," said 
StudPnt leaders from Saint student body president] met these leadership summits," Georgeanna Rosenbush, the events are open to members of Mary's College have publicly with Nikki [Milos, the Saint Milos said. "But we would like Saint Mary's director of Student both campuses." said that the only way to dispel Mary's student body president]. to expand this to include ways Activities. "Any programs that As an example of these the stereotypes that run ram­"The problems that exist of talking about issues of diver­our groups put on, including the events, he noted that each year pant through both Saint Mary's between the two campuses were class dances, Senior Formal and the Student Union Board sets
sity on campus as well." 

and Notre Dame is to bring stu­discussed," he continued. "We Milos also described recent other social events that we aside one day of AnTostal, Notre dents together in a non-alcohol discussed ways of handling plans for a non-formal dance for have, are open to Notre Dame Fame's spring festival, for activ­related social setting. those problems and basically seniors of both schools. "I don't students." ities hosted by Saint Mary's. 
This week, the student gov­switched recipes on how to go have all the details on it, but I Joe Cassidy, Notre Dame According to Cassidy, the ernments of both colleges will about implementing them." director of Student Activities,
believe that it would be open to amount of programming in meet to figure out a way to do The four student leaders also all students from both institu­agreed with Rosenbush, but just that, according to Erek discussed the problem of stereo-tions," she said. cautioned that his office does 
see ND/SMC I page 4 

page 2 The Observer • INSIDE Wednesday, September 24, 19~ ' 
• INSIDE COLUMN 
Cheers ... 

I think 
I have noticed a disturbing trend with a friend of mine every time we go out. She has chosen not to drink. Ever. 

I chose, at first, to -------­ignore the problem, Nora Meany hoping that she would Saint Mary's Accent Editor see the error of her ways in time and return to hoisting the cup. However, I feel like the problem has gotten out of hand, and my friend is trudging blind­ly down the path of her senior year with her naive eyes closed and mouth shut. My friend turned 21 on Monday. She didn't drink. Now, be honest. What is your gut reac­tion? Oh please, don't cloud my ears with your sensitive arguments to her defense. Yes, in theory her practice is not foreign. She has the right to choose to drink or not drink whenever she wants. Blah blah blah, thank you for pointing out the flip side. But what would you think if one of your friends chose abolition in the prime of his or her drinking career? Or better yet, what would you think if it was an acquaintance that you hardly knew? Jim from down the hall just up and stopped drinking. What would your gut reaction be? Be honest, now. Maybe wonder if the "aboli­tionist" had a drinking problem in the past? Or had become a Quaker over the summer? Or something worse ... rumors would fly, and you would open your ears to gossip out of sheer curiosity. This is happening to my friend. Last I heard, she was an alcoholic, anorexic, manic-depressive, poverty-stricken Southern Baptist. All to explain her absti­nence. My question is, why would you want to subject yourself to that kind of humiliation? We at Notre Dame, Saint Mary's and Holy Cross. are part of a drinking society, above and beyond the academic one we face from nine to five. Why would someone want to deviate from the norm and face all that trouble? What's the use of going out if you are not going to drink, anyway? Does she want to forever pigeonhole herself a Designated Driver? I can see her now, chewing straws and trying to usher everyone out to her car so that the caravan can make it to Burger King before the drive-thru closes. I love my friend too much to see her treated with such an unbearable lack of respect. I don't want her to overlook the fact that she is making an ignorant choice as well. College life is based on experiences! Turning 21 and attempting the shots is a rite of pas­sage. I'm going to be telling future genera­tions about my epic 21st. What legacy will she have to pass on to her children? Like it or not, the drunken parties, hook­ups, and conversations are some of the most cherished memories that we will take with us from college. I don't want my friend to walk away from her graduation with noth­ing but a diploma to show for it. College is a time for building tolerance, not social awareness. I love my friend and support her in all of her choices. She is like a part of me. However, when the social pressures and stress get to her, I'll be ready to welcome her back like the prodigal child that she is. And I'll be holding a beer bong. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
• TooAv's STAFF 
News Graphics David Freddoso Pete Cilella Anne Marie Mattingly Production Sports Tara Grieshop Brian Kessler Heather Cocks Brian Reinthaler David Freddoso Viewpoint Anne Marie Matringly Tara Churik Lab Tech Accent 
Anthony Shaker Andrea Jordan 

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction righrs are reserved. 
• WOR!.D AT A GlANCE 
Michigan student dies of stab wounds, police shoot culprit 

ANN ARBOR, Mich. 

A man who was stabbing his student girlfriend on the University of Michigan campus today was shot by a school police officer, and both died in surgery, authorities said. 
The officer, responding to 911 calls, drove into a campus parking lot shortly after midnight and fired when the man refused to obey his order to stop his attack on the woman, campus public safety director Leo Heatley said. 
The woman was identified as Tamara Williams, a 20-year-old senior. Her killer was identified as Kevin Nelson, 26, who lived with Williams but was not 
affiliated with the university. 
Nelson was convicted of a domestic assault on Williams in 1995, university spokeswoman Julie Peterson said. Williams' 2 1/2-year-old daughter was asleep in the apartment and was placed in protective cus-
Yeltsin agrees to weapons deal 
MOSCOW 

Vice President AI Gore and Russian President Boris Yeltsin clinched a long­sought deal today to convert three Russian nuclear weapons plants to civilian uses, as part of U.S. efforts to ensure Moscow safeguards and reduces its vast nuclear stockpile. "It's so historic. It's so important for world peace," said U.S. Energy Secretary 


Federico Pena, who took part in the discussions. In a lengthy meeting, Gore and Yeltsin also tried to smooth tension over Iran. Russia is helping Iran build a nuclear power plant, and the United States fears the technology could be used to develop a nuclear bomb. "There's no doubt in my mind that the goals of Russia and the United States are the same," Gore said after the meeting. "We share the same concern over weapons of mass destruc­tion." Gore spent two days working with Hussian Premier Viktor Chernomyrdin on a range of issues; pre­venting the spread of nuclear weapons technology topped the list. Announcing a deal that has been in the works for several years, the two sides said three Russian plants that produced weapons grade plutonium will be converted to production of uranium for civilian power plants. Officials did not describe the terms of the agree­ment at their news conference. 

Teen convicted in arson deaths 
IIILLSBORO, Ore. 

A mentally disabled 12-year-old boy was sentenced Tuesday to 13 years of state custody for setting a fire that k:illed eight people. Ray DeFord, who has a mental age of 7, was found responsible -the juvenile court equivalent of guilty -last month for setting the fire that killed five chil­dren and three adults in his apartment complex in Aloha, a suburb west of Portland. ''I'm still convinced he has no idea what he did," Circuit Judge Timothy Alexander said at Tuesday's sentencing. "That's precisely what makes Ray so dangerous." A prosecutor argued Ray's disability hadn't affected his ability to realize risks and consequences. In court, the boy chewed gum, turning several times to look at relatives of the victims. Alexander had earlier ruled the boy responsible for one count of arson, eight counts of felony murder and eight counts of criminally negligent homicide. Defense lawyers had argued that Ray couldn't understand the consequences of his actions because of brain damage caused at least in part by beatings from his father. The father, Thomas Ray Martin, recently was arrested and returned to New Mexico, where he escaped from prison 26 years ago while serving time for robbery. 
• SOUTH BENO WEATHER • NATIONAl WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forecast 
The AccuWeather®forecast for noon, Wednesday, Sept. 24.
AccuWeather® forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 
Lines separate high temperature zones for the day. 

L 
I 

Wednesday~ Thursday ~ Friday ~ 

Saturday ~r 74 58 
COLD WARM STATIONARY
,> 

Cl 1997 AccuWeather, Inc. 
Sunday ___ r~ ~j"V\J"•.... --./ '·<.:"  76 60  Pressure H L HIGH LOW V1• Assoculted Press  SHOWERS  RAIN  T·STORMS FLURRIES  SNOW  ICE  SUNNY  PT. CLOUDY  CLOUDY  
Atlanta  77  68  Dallas  84  65  Miami  88  78  
Q,cQ,~q~Q (f Showers T-storms Rain Flurries Snow Ice Sunny Via AssociSted Press GraphicsNet  ~ u Pt. Cloudy Cloudy  Ba~imore Baton Rouge Chicago Cincinnati  66 80 73 70  53 70 48 47  Denver Honolulu Houston Los Angeles  83 89 87 92  47 73 66 73  New York Phoenix St. Louis Waco  66 85 77 87  54 75 51 65  

66 50 70 48 70 54 

tody, Heatley said. Williams and Nelson both died in surgery at the University of Michigan Medical Center. 
Campus police got several calls of an attack in progress at 12:17 a.m.. Heatley said. 
Nelson started stabbing Williams in their apartment, Heatley said. "She was able to get to a neighbor's home and knock on the window," Heatley said. 
The officer, whose identity was not released, found Williams lying on the ground, with Nelson repeatedly stabbing her, lll~atley said. 
A resident of the complex said she heard at least two gunshots. 
"It was just like that: Bang! Bang!" 
Marlys Deen told The Ann Arbor News. She had heard people arguing in the parking lot and then heard someone shout: "She's dead. Get the police. She's dead." 
AP 

Vying parties shut down Senate 
WASI IINGTON 
Democrats shut down virtually all Senate committee meetings Tuesday after Hepublicans moved to extend their investigation of alleged voter fraud in last November's election of Sen. Mary Landrieu, D-La. And what Democrats didn't shut down, Republicans did. The interruption, however, may be brief. Senate Democratic leader Tom Daschle, who used invoked seldom-use rules to bring about the shutdown. said at the end of the day he believes he has negotiated a reasonable agreement with Hepublican leader Trent Lott that will bring the Landrieu investigation to an encl. Interviewed on PBS' "The NewsHour with Jim Lehrer," Dasehle said he had an understanding about how the Senate Rules Committee will proceed that is "totally agreeable" to him. He declined to give details, saying they should come from committee Chairman John Warner, R-Va. Warner could not be immediately reached for comment Tuesday evening, and his spokesman, Carter Cornick. said he was unaware of any changes in plans. Just hours before. Warner had said much more work has to be done just to evaluate all the documents supplied to the committee. The Rules Committee investigation on the Louisiana election concerns charges by Republican Woody Jenkins -who lost to Landrieu by 5, 788 votes out of 1.8 million cast -that widespread voter fraud cost him the elec­tion. 

DEA busts international drug ring 
NEW YORK 
Federal drug agents have arrested 25 people, including the son of a former president of Sierra Leone, alleging they were members of overlapping, multiethnic drug rings that spanned four continents. Based on evidence from an eight-month wiretap investigation, prosecutors charged the son of the recently deposed president of the western African country and 24 other people with nar­cotics conspiracy and possession of drugs with the intent to sell. The charges were announced Monday by Lewis Rice Jr., head of the Drug Enforcement Administration's New York office."The multicultural and ethnic makeup of these two organizations renects the bridges being made between criminal organizations," Hice said. "It also indicates that drug trafficking is an ·equal-opportuni­ty employer motivated by greed." Rice said one group, consisting mainly of Albanian and Dominican nationals, sold heroin and cocaine from Colombian and African sources in the New York area. A second group of mainly Italian nationals allegedly obtained cocaine through Colombian sources in Miami for sale in the New York area. 
Wednesday, September 24, 1997 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
• MumcmJURAL BEAT 


Diversity Council to 'set a new direction' 
By CHRIS SHIPLEY 
News Writer 
Acting as the voice and ears for the Griffin!Nass administra­tion for all multicultural issues requires a great deal of time and dedication. The newly appointed members of the Diversity Council are up to the task. however, as they prepare to "set a new direction" for the student government in terms of multicultural issues. 
The 1997-1998 school year marks the first year in which the Diversity Council will act of its own accord. Since its incep­tion in 1996, the council has bPen under the guidance of the Ollice of Student Life. 
After a lengthy interview process, Steven Gomez, Taz Fisher. and Dino Grajales were chosen to lead the Diversity Council into the uncharted waters of a new school year. 
Gomez, who will serve as diversity chair for the council, has chosen to follow the path of former chair Cheryl lgiri. 
"Our focus is to facilitate coop­eration, in a very broad sense." Gomez recently stated. "As stu­dent leaders. we shouldn't be individuals. We must all benefit the student body." 
lmmndiate plans for the coun­dl include sponsoring a dinner and discussion on Latinos in the Media for llispanic Heritage Month. The council also hopes to bring together the Multicultural Commissioner from each dorm in order to get a feel for the state of diversity on campus. 
As the year progresses, the Diversity Council plans on arranging for more signs of stu­dent unity at such school func­tions as all-school Masses and sporting events. The only stu­dent groups represented at the Beginning of the School Year Mass were the Student Union Board, Student Senate, and stu­dent government. 
"One of the ways to help diversity is to work together," Gomez adds. "We should cele­brate our differences. I'd love to see all the student leaders down there, letting students know their ideas are being represent­
ed." · 
The new council members are not the only ones taking an interest in the multicultural issues on campus. One of the platforms of the Griffin/Nass campaign was a promise to 
work with other colleges to increase cultural diversity in the course selection at Notre Dame. 
According to Gomez, both have been actively involved with the research involved in this campaign promise. 
"Both Matt and Erek seem excited and helpful. They both receive reports and contribute ideas (to the council). The Diversity Council is a genuine concern of theirs," Gomez stat­ed. 
The research done by Gomez and the council is currently being considered by the Hispanic Alumni of Notre Dame, and several conferences on the issue are planned for the near future. 
In addition to his work with the Diversity Council, Steven Gomez is also a member of La Alianza and has participated in Asian Allure and Latin Expressions. The Sorin sopho­more is also a member of the Volunteer Project to Chicago which will be sponsored by Campus Ministry over fall break. 

Jones answers student questions 
By MICHELLE KRUPA 
Associate News Editor 
After concluding his speech. James Earl Jones spent about 45 minutes answering audience questions ranging from his movie and stage career to his reaction to social issues, among intermingled requests by a few inquiring students to "please just say my name in that voice." 
Below is an overview of the discussion. 
• On inclusion and racism: 
"Who we need to help is those who obsess about the problem [of racism]. I think the worst problem of the black community is racism. It's a poison." 
"Those of you who have not resolved personal problems, I hope you can resolve them because we have to care about those of us who struggle with other problems." 
• On the wealth of information on the Internet: 

"We need guides and filters [of information]. but too little knowledge is a very dangerous thing. The strength of a per­son's knowledge is how he can use it." 
• On storytelling: 
"I don't believe you can give a message and tell a story. A story conveys through your heart all Kinds of messages. I'm just not sure what the best story is." 
• On his decision to enter drama: 
"When I discovered how to talk again [after a speech prob­lem]. it led me to a career where I speak. And my father was an actor. He said to me that 'if you're going to be an actor, don't do it because you want to get rich but because you love it."' 
• On his roles: 

"I've been lucky because my work takes me away from home and I do things that relate to my son at work in the roles I take on. I'm conscious of it. I'm just cast in certain kinds of roles. It's nothing intentional -I'm will­ing to play the bad guy." 
• On violence in the movies: 
"What I can't get over is how fragile we are. Indulgence in so many fist fights where nobody hurts their hands is kind of unbelievable." 
"Choosing to watch violence is individual responsibly. It's a matter of appetite. What you get comes to you, and it's up to you to filter it, if not censor it." 
· • On the "Star Wars Trilogy": 
Student Question: "Why in the three movies didn't your name appear in the credits?" 
Jones' Answer: "I didn't want credit for just being a special effect." 
Q: "Which one of the movies is your favorite?" 
A: "The first one. The 'father' film is always the best." 
Q: "Has [John] Lucas approached you about any of his new movies?" 
A: "I approached him." 

• SAlNT MARv'S FRESHMAN CLASS ELECTIONS 
SMC to hold run-off tomorrow 
By MICHELLE S. PRIMEAU 
News Writer 
The choice of officers for Saint Mary's class of 2001 has been put on hold until tomorrow. Run­off elections will be held in the dining hall during regular meal hours for two tickets, Chriss Asher/Katie Poynter and Carolyn Kelley/Kara Kezios. 
Asher/Poynter are running on the slogan "Nine out of ten eggplants vote for Chriss and Katie." They have spent the past few days campaigning by attempting to contact every freshman in her dorm room and distributing purple balloons. They are continuing this activity through tomorrow. 
Their plans for the upcoming year include a pos­sible pop-tab drive for Ronald McDonald House and off-campus social activities, as well activities on campus promoting greater unity between Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students. They are considering a sleep-over for the female freshmen of Saint Mary's and Notre Dame. 

"It's important issue to address since we'll be spending the next four years together," Asher stated. "We're just looking forward to having lots of fun and excitement this year." 
The Kelley/Kezios platform focuses on the devel­opment of the Saint Mary's identity. They would like to educate the class on the school's heritage and teach the school song. A plan is in the works to write to "The Oprah Winfrey Show" to suggest a show on women's colleges. 
"We really want to stress the positive aspects of going to a women's college. Sometimes for fresh­men it's a hard transition to make, and we want to help make it as easy as possible," Kezios said. 
Unity and communication are also important to Kelley and Kezios. and they plan to create a sug­gestion box called "Freshmen Expression" so that the voices of everyone in the class can be heard. 
All of the candidates for the class board were elected. Board members are Katie Crean, Molly Kahn, Asha Mukerjee, Jennifer Mulsoff, Autumn Palacz, Elizabeth Rockwell, and Page Warstler. 
Come Find Out More About the 




U:RBAX PLUXGE 

Informational Meeting 
Thursday, September 25 8:30pm 
Coffee House Center for Social Concerns Notre Dame 
All Students Are Welcome For Additional Information Contact Rodney T. Cohen Director ofUran Programming & Outreach Development University of Notre Dame 631-7949 



CENTER FOR SOCIAL Jan Pilarski Justice Educational Coordinator
CONCERNS 

Saint Mary's College 284-4512 

lliANDATOUY TUYOUT I~RACTICES 
Surul:t;'l·, St•JtCemht•r· 211 11-101• 21!1 Hoclow Trrt•sda;'\·· St•Jth•mht•r· :10 {;::JO-II)t :Ull llo<•luu• 
TRYOUT DATES 
l•'r·id:t;'\'· 0('(oht•r· a  (>-!),.  .J\(T  
Satur·da;'l. Ot·Cohl'l' ct  •-a1•  J.\CC  
Sund:t;'l·. Ch·Coht•r· 5  TU,\  TB.\  

CPut·~tion~·! Call: :Ut•l.ani•• Sulisfiu (27:1-f~U:i."il. '\"irt:l IC.t·~ •·~ I 1-IIOfj). h.;uni.,.ha 'Hi("li.t"" I 1-U:i~t:\L ~ ,.it•olt• ('r·n-,. ( I-2HI:U . j~ 
------------------~-~-~-----------~--~---------­
page 4 The Observer· CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, September 24, 1997 
from dorm to dorm," But Notre Dame's Hall Presidents' Council plans 



Griffin vetoes resolution ND/SMC 
to try that kind of programming this year. 
Observer Staff Report 
Student body president Matt Griffin announced officially yes­terday in a letter to student sen­ators that he would not sign a resolution requesting the resig­nation of Lee Hambright as assistant controller for Office of the Student Body President. 
Hambright currently serves in that capacity and as Hall Presidents' Council treasurer. The Student Senate, in its reso­lution, called the assignment of dual offices a conflict of interest but noted that in holding the two offices, Hambright did not com­mit any ethical offense. 
By withholding his signature, Griffin vetoes the resolution unless the senate can acheive a five-sixths vote to override it. 
In using the veto power allot­ted to him by the new constitu­tion, Griffin cited a higher goal than just keeping Hambright in 


Jones 
continued from page 1 
"more human-centered econom­ic bill of rights." He mentioned different political-economic sys­tems, including the capitalist democracy. 

his current position. 
"The real question is how much trust and authority one should give a student body pres­ident and vice president in choosing their staff," Griffin said in a press release. "It is my hope that by not signing the resolu­tion, the senate will move on to address issues that are more important to the student body." 
Some members of the Senate took issue with Griffin's veto of the resolution. 
"Even though I voted against the resolution, I don't like the amount of authority that the president excercised over the senate," Morrisey senator Matt Szabo said. "I realize that it was in his power to do this, but he should have respected the sen­ate's wishes on this occasion. By not signing the resolution that the senate passed by a majority vote he is sort of slapping the senate in the face." 
together toward a good world. 
"Let our governments create institutions that bring together the brightest minds. We have learned in the 20th century that nations rise from communities," Jones said. 
Reiterating his three points, Jones concluded his speech by stressing again that "our chil­


continued from page 1 

which members of both campuses participate has dwindled over the years. 
"Not that long ago, the class governments from both sides were very close and would plan a lot of events together," he said. 
"It was easier to work from a class perspective because, with the single-sex nature of the dorms here on campus, anything sponsored by a dorm would either be all-female or a mixed crowd. It makes more sense not to plan events like that 
"We are trying to contact the representatives over at Saint Mary's to help start a 'brother and sister dorm' project," said HPC co-chair Mark Fennell. 
"I have seen it tried before and fail, but there have been some things done in the past on the Notre Dame campus that promoted interaction between students of both schools and we are try­ing to keep that up. 
"Overall, our hall presidents are very open to programming events to include Saint Mary's stu­dents," he said. 

Retreat 
continued from page 1 
ments including the education and business curriculums; however the Awakening Retreat is open to all students of Saint Mary's. 
"I decided to sign up for the retreat because I have always enjoyed the previous retreats I have participated in and they have not only made my faith stronger, but I have come to learn a lot about myself as well," said Beth Phelan. 
"Time away from classes and the day-to-day activities will enable me to better focus on my faith and the direction my life is taking," she said. 

Each retreat is formatted dif­ferently and is based on the communication leadership team model, which is designed by the staff and student lead­ers. 
This weekend's retreat will be a one-day experience, and in January one will be two days. 
According to former partici­pant Kim Jeselnick, the time is used as a renewal of one's faith; it is chance to interact with new students and to grow together. 
"It was a very peaceful expe­rience where I was able to reflect on where I was in my faith and where I was going," said Jeselnick. 
The retreats are limited to between 15 and 20 students in 
order to keep the gathering intimate while enabling the group to spend quality time together. 
"When I went on a retreat my senior year in high school, I was among 30 students who came back feeling more loved and loving," said Phelan. 
"I am hoping that this week­end will bring me the same feelings and emotions." 
The Saint Mary's Awakening retreat is offered three times per year and has become a sig­nificant part of the Saint Mary's community. 
"I would recommend the retreat to ·anyone," said Jeselnick. "It was a wonderful way to take a break and get a new perspective on my life and my faith." 
FOR the EDUCATION nnd RESEARCH COMMUNITY 
W
th nearly 80 years of leadership experience 
m our field, TIAA-CREF is eminently 
qualilled to help you build a comfi.wtable, worr;­
free retirement. 

Our references are equally impeccable­
today, nearly two million of the best minds in 
America trust us with their financial future. 
Allow us to review our qualifications. 
Superior strength 

With over $200 billion in assets, TIAA-CREF is the wodd's largest retirement organization­and among the most solid. TIAA is one of' only a handful of' companies to have earned top rat­ings for financial strength, and CREF is one of Wall Street's largest investors.' 
Solid, long-term performance 
We seek out long-term opportunities that other companies, in pursuit of quick gains, often miss. Though past performance can't guarantee future results. this patient philosophy has proven extremely rewarding. 
Surprisingly low expenses 

TIA1\-CREF's operating costs are among the 


Ensuring the future for those who shape it.SM 
lowest in the insurance and mutual fund 
industries. Therefore, more ofyour money goes where it should-towards ensuring your f'uture.' 
Easy diversification 

We of'fer a wide variety of expe11ly managed investment options to help build your assets. With stock, bond, money market, and real estate accounts -as well as a guaranteed annuity to choose from-TIAA-CREF makes diversification easy. 
Unrivaled service 

We believe that our service distinguishes us from every other retirement company. In the latest Dalbar Consumer Satisfaction Survey, a study of' 2,000 financial companies, TIAA­
CREF ~·as voted the leading provider of 
retirement plans. 
lfyou work in education, research, or relat­ed fields, why not put TlAA-CREF's experi­ence to work for you'1 To find out more. visit our \\'eb site at www.tiaa-cref.org or call us at I-800-842-2776. 
1A++ (Superior),_ A.M. _Besl Co.;~\. Dull' & Phelps; A.a.a, Moody's ln\'estor &n·u·es: AAA. Standard and !)nor':. for stability, wund investment:., daim!<o-pa_vme ability. ami on-rail iinam·ial strength. These rat!ngs of TIAA as a~ msuran~·t n:'mpan~· do not apply to CREE !,\,'ftmtJIInlc~'f{w:• hMtrollll'r R,,flil,l/. hM(Iio•t.•. I<J%; Lipper Anal,\1.i{al Servi,·cs, lnl .. l.ti•tlt.'l'·llirtd•'l':• .,.L,,,(VIt~·a/IJ.ttll, llJ':lb (Quarterly). ~or.more complete mlorm:1t10n. ·~clu?~ng c~~rgt·s nnJ expense.s. calll-B'!<J-842-273~. ~XI<"nsiun !i~(~9, fo~ ~Rt-:F ami TIAA. Real r~-.tatl' pruspt;{'IUSl"'!-. Kead ther.• l'arelully ht-fon· you 1nvest or send money. fiAA-CRI'.r lndl\'ldual anJ lnsti!UIIonal Sc-rv•ccs, lnL". d1stnbutcs CRI'.l· t'CI11hcatcs and thl· vanable componenl ol TIAA con1rar1s. 
------------------------~.-----------~----~------------~------.-------­
Wednesday, September 24, 1997 The Observer • NATIONAL NEWS page 5 

NASA debates sending another astronaut to Mir 
By MARCIA DUNN 
Associat~d Press Writer 
CAPE CANAVERAL, Fla. 

NASA came under mounting political and public pressure Tuesday not to put another American aboard the broken­do·wn Mir, a debate that's become one of the most agoniz­ing in the history of the space program. 
The final decision rests with NASA Administrator Daniel Goldin, who has been warned by key members of Congress that he proc.eeds at his own risk if he sends astronaut David Wolf to the Russian space station for a four-month stay. 
Goldin is expected to make up his mind Wednesday, one day before space shuttle Atlantis is scheduled to lift off with Wolf. 
"The time has come to say we've learned a lot from it, but we're not going to risk any more Americans aboard," Rep. 
F. James Sensenbrenner Jr., chairman of the House Science Committee, said on NBC's "Today" show. The congress­man said it is not worth putting another American on Mir merely ''to spend months being an assistant Mr. Fix-It." 
"The whole country was behind us in Apollo," said Christopher Kraft, retired director of the Johnson Space Center and a key figure in the development of the Apollo and shuttle programs. "Today we live in this world of 'what have you done for me lately' busi­ness. That makes it very tough, particularly for NASA." 
NASA insiders were divided right before the 1986 


Presents 
Technology and Engineering at Procter& Gamble 



Where-When
• Morris Inn Alumni Room 

Wednesday, · -.=; 
September 24 
7:00pm



2 *• 
liM! Refreshments provided 
M'Q 
Casual Dress . 

Challenger accident on whether to launch that morn­ing, but that debate didn't become public until after the ugly fact. One of the biggest disputes before that came before the triumphant Apollo 8 flight to the moon during Christmas 1968, when some argued that the Saturn 5 rocket needed more testing. 
There have been other debates along the way: whether to replace John Glenn on NASA's first orbital flight in have . 
recent letter to the House Science Committee that Mir's problems "are occurring at a time when the Russian govern­ment may not be in a position to provide adequate financial and technical support to enable the aging space station to oper­ate safely." 
Leaders of the science com­mittee oppose sending any 

for me 

1962 because lately' business That
of the per-• ceived psycho-makes it very tough, par-l~gical toll of ticularly for NASA.' 
h1s numerous 

launch delays, Christopher Kraft reports by whether to Johnson Space Center independent send astra-------------experts and 
m o r e Americans to live on Mir but have left the final decision up to Goldin. The White House also is leaving it up to Goldin. 
Goldin wants to review two 
more safety 
nauts to the damaged Skylab station in 1973, and whether in 1981 to risk astronauts on a space shuttle protected from the fiery re-entry only by fragile outer tiles. 
In every case except for Challenger, NASA was confi­dent of its technical know-how and won. 
This time, though, NASA is forced to rely on another coun­try's expertise. And that coun­try's space station is breaking down more and more. 
NASA's inspector general, Roberta Gross, noted in a 
meet with those experts before giving the go-ahead. 
If Goldin decides it is too risky to put Wolf aboard, NASA will probably still send Atlantis to Mir as scheduled to bring American Michael Foale home after a 4 1/2-month stay and to deliver urgently needed sup­plies for the space station, including a replacement com­puter and repair gear. 
There are other factors to consider besides safety: name­ly, foreign policy and the future of the international space sta­tion. 
*Located OVI CO>'VIeY of edisoV\ aVId J>'oVIwood *All 1najo,. c.-edit ca>'ds accepted *Wo,.ld wide delive.-y 
288-755-1 • 800-224-4695 
Ill 

The Alumni-Senior Club now features a FUll MENU of scrumptious delicacies. This week at the ASC: 
Wedne$day 
$2.00 AII-U-Can-Eat Wings $1.00 Burgers 

Thur$day 
Spec  als  Galore  
Campus  Band  Friday VIBE Rocks 10:30 start.  the House.  
~  


VI¥BE 



---~ 
page 6 
By RANDOLPH SCJiMI~ Associated Press Writer ::>;;'""·w>00Ai6 
WASHINGTON 
More driver education and 
restricted licenses for begin­
ners could cut dgwn t . 
accident toll thaf'Claimed 
the lives of more than 6,000 
teen drivers last year, the 
American >~}cAutomobill'l' 
Association says. 
The AAA launched a 
Ucensed to Learn campaign 
Tuesday in an effort to 
tighten states' driving. 
requirements for those just 
learning. .>; 
The AAA said that studies 
show the ti~k of l)~yjn~ .an 
accident declines sharply 
after someone hastwe~.to 
four y~~ ofdpving"~xperi~ 
ence, Gr~d~a~.ed Hcensing 
programs allow y{)uths to . 
gain ' e~pt;~r;~¢J1<ie While reducing risk by limiting the · situations\in which they catf 
drive. ,. ~' ~;... < Several states alrea .··· have graduated system,s .· with some restrictions, the 
AAAsaid. · 
'The progtaJl! urged by the has three~tages:;r .·....··• 
At 16; a youth tmild get a.le&rne .· nllH after passing a. vi and knowl~ edge test. The permit holder would have to be accompa­nied by someone age 21· or over when driving, could not carry other teens as passen­rs, wQ:uld be limited to drivitl:if\:lind would· 

---.---­
Wednesday, September 24, 1997
The Observer· NATIONAL NEWS 

Elderly find HMOs economical, 'merciful' 
By BRENDA COLEMAN 
Associated Press Wri(er 
CHICAGO 

l-IMOs may be making death more merciful for elderly patients. researchers say. 
While the cost-cutting prac­tices of health maintenance organizations are sometimes criticized as harmful to patients, a new study found that Medicare patients in liMOs were less likely to get prolonged, costly -and ultimately futile -care than those with traditional Medicare coverage. 
"If we can avoid these kinds of outcomes, which have suffering associated with them, we can improve the quality of care-giv­ing," said Dr. Leslie A. Lenert, the study's co-author. 
Skeptics said that the data may underestimate the cost of treating HMO patients and that Medicare beneficiaries who choose IIMQ-s may be people who would decline aggressive care at life's end anyway. 
Nationally, about 13 percent of 
Medicare beneficiaries belong to 
HMOs. 

In the study, based on 1994 
data, Medicare patients hospital­
ized in intensive care units in 
California were 25 percent less 
likely to undergo aggressive. 
highly expensive care that ulti­
mately proved futile if they were 
HMO members than if they were 
covered by fee-for-service reim­

Information Night 
Wednesday, Sept.24 7:00-8:00 pm Center Lower Dining Room Center for Continuing Education 
Challenging Job Opportunities 
in Our Many Product lines for 
CSJ EEl MEl AEI 

Physics/ Math/ Business Majors 
PIZZA AND REFRESHMENTS WILL BE PROVIDED 
bursement. 
The HMO patients did not die at a higher rate while hospital­ized and died at an only slightly higher rate -8 percent -dur­ing the 100 days after release compared with fee-for-service patients. 
"This suggests that liMO prac­tices may be better at limiting or avoiding injudicious critical care ncar the end of life," the authors wrote in Wednesday's issue of The Journal of the American Medical Association. 

HMOs treat patients under a prepaid agreement rather than according to the actual cost of care and services. liMOs also reward doctors financially for withholding unnecessary care. Critics argue the cost-cutting incentives in HMOs sometimes deprive patients of treatments they need. 
In the study, liMO patients generated $49 million less in bills for aggressive care that ulti­mately proved futile. 
That's nearly 5 percent of all intensive care costs, the researchers said. The study involved 81,494 patients. 
Knowing when to turn off a breathing machine or to stop kidney dialysis because a patient is probably beyond saving requires difficult medical judg­ment, said Lenert, an assistant professor of medicine and mole­cular pharmacology at Stanford University Medical School. 

~,~wtv. 






TINY PRICES. 
I Can Hear the Heart Beating as One 


All product shown at everyday low price. STORE HOURS: MON-SAT: IOAM-I OPM; SUN: I I AM-7PM 
Wilshire Plaza, Mishawaka, 271-0696 

VIEWPOINT 


Wednesday, September 24, 1997 
THE OBSERVER 
NOTRE DAME OffiCE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY's OfFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1997-98 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief 
Brad Prendergasr 

Managing Editor Business Manager 
Jamie Heisler Tom Roland 
Assistant Managing Editor 
Dan Cichalski News Editor ............................ Heather Cocks Advertising Manager ......... .................... ] ed Perers Viewpoint Editor ................._...... Kelly Brooks Ad Design Manager ....................jennifer Breslow Sports Editor .................................. Mike Day Production Manager ........................ Mark DeBoy Accent Editor...........................joey Crawford Systems Manager ...................... Michael Brouiller Saint Mary's Editor. . ............. Lori Allen Controller.. . ......................... Kyle Carlin Photo Editor ., ........... Katie Kroener 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the Universiry of Notre Dame du be and Sainr Mary's College. lr does nor necessarily reflect rhe policies of the administration ofeither inS[iturion. The new). is reported as accurately ;md objectively as possible. Unsigned edirorials represent tht' opinion of the majoriry of rhe Edimr-in~Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Edimr, News Editor, Viewpoinr Editor, Sports Ediror, Accent Ediror, Saim Mary's Editor, Phoro Ediror, and Associate News Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Columns present the views of the amhors, and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's community and ro all readers. The free expression of varying opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 

Editor-in-Chief 631-4542 Business Office 6.~1-5313 Managing Editor 631-4541 Advertising 631-6900/8840 News/Phoro 631-532.1 Systems 631-8839 Sparr~ 631-4543 Office Manager 631-7471 Accem/Sainr i\1.try's 6.>1-4540 Fax 631-6927 Day Editor/Viewpoint 6.~1-5303 Viewpoint E-Mail Viewpoint. I @nd.edu General Information 6.11-7471 Ad E-Mail observer@darwin.cc.nd.edu 
• THE COLUMN Of REASON 

RenoVations Drawn Into the Heart of ND 
Editor's note: This is the second installment of a series written by stu­dents within the School ofArchitecture. These columns. under the byline The Column of Reason. will deal with the built environment ofNotre Dame, focus­ing in particular on recent additions and changes to our campus. 
Laura Bossardt 

As a junior in high school, I traveled to Notre Dame for the first time. My mother drove the car, while I anxiously awaited a glimpse of the campus. Our first approach was along Juniper. where I found myself in the midst of some very functional, industrial. and unornamentcd buildings, intermingled with some hardy athletic-type build­ings. 
Rather disappointed and not impressed, I couldn't help but wonder where the heart of Notre Dame's cam­pus was. Where was the Golden Dome, the Basilica, or the collegiate-gothic dormitories and academic buildings that have como to be associated with Notre Dame? 
Eventually realizing that we could not got to the heart of Notre Dame without stepping out of our automobile and walking, we parked the car. Starting from Notre Dame Avenue, we looked to the skyline for direction and followed the glow of the dome.The campus buildings combined with the archway of trees created an axis that led us to the symbol of Notre Dame. 
As we got closer to our destination, the walk unfolded a sense of awe and appreciation within me. Humbled, I could now feel the prestige and integri­ty of the Notre Dame tradition. Pausing by St. Mary's statue at the beginning of the "circle," we passed Alumni Hall and the Law School, and proceeded across spacious South Quad to enter the wood­ed, dark quiet of God Quad. Perhaps it was because I was a young, nervous high school student, anxious to receive my fated application to college, that I felt a little daunted upon entering that sacred area, not to mention dwarfed by the ominous Father Sorin statue! 
Now, I realize that my feelings of mystery and anticipation were height­ened because the Dome, the Basilica, and the other buildings on the quad could not be experienced fully as they were masked by overgrown trees and shrubbery. There always seems to be a special quality about being on foot to experience nature as well as architec­ture. 
Today as I walk from the architecture building through the alley between the Basilica and Sorin into God Quad, it is difficult to miss the human hand that has touched the space. I am greeted with an open-air feeling, instead of a dark foreboding, due likely to the removal of trees and foliage. 
Hopefully, the trees were diseased, as not to disrupt the already established nature of the space. However, more­shapely trees and flowers have replaced those that are missing and will likely take some years to grow in. The paving has been widened consider­ably, now able to accommodate a large truck, or perhaps throngs of football fans. This paving has a quality of human arteries, pumping campus­goers to important areas throughout Notre Dame. I especially appreciate the axis provided for the Stonehenge memorial fountain. The fountain acts as a focal point which directs the eye beyond to Hesburgh Library, our prominent 14-story tower of knowl­edge. 


As for another change, the beautiful Jesus statue has been enclosed with a stone ring, noticeably in a safer, per­haps more sturdy foundation, a little less likely to fall down as it did three years ago. But the ring under the stat­ue could have allowed for a relaxing, reflective seating area, had there been a terracing of the stone block to form steps. Regardless, the new wooden benches that have been placed along the central spine of the quad are a wel­come addition and have already attracted many students as a place to study. If the goal of the campus design­ers was to bring more people to the heart of Notre Dame, I believe the ren­ovation of God Quad is a success. The quad has been tidied up, and the newly planted trees will grow soon enough. The paving that has been added is suit­able for the amount of people that will walk through God Quad in the future. 
Yet, the renovations that continue inside the Dome are cause for atten­tion. I worry that if the Dome, the sym­bol of Notre Dame, is being made strictly into a museum for campus visi­tors, as is rumored, and not the promi­nent, functioning administration build­ing it once was, God Quad will not be as enjoyable an experience. 

In fact, the need to walk through God Quad to get to the Dome would primar­ily cater to campus visitors and not the student body. If the Dome is only a museum, it would become a stagnant building without a role in campus life, a roped off observatory, and not the liv­ing, breathing, vital building that it was for me seven years ago. 
This week's contributing author is Laura Bossardt, a fifth-year student in the School ofArchitecture. She can be reached at Bossardt.l @nd. edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 
• 000NESBURY GARRY TRUDEAU 
B.f)., I'M R&4UYafJRRI/3/? A8CXJTGOING BACKe,Agr. CAN7AFFOI?P IrS 5/JCHA OfA/'IG& IN n: IGOTTA 
Cl/t.WI<E FROM L.A.! 
GeTAt/WN­
•!JOYFIRe;;[. 

• QuoTE OF THE DAY 
"Desire for approval and 
recognition is a healthy motive, but desire to be acknowledged as bett­ter, stronger, or more intelli­gent than a fellow human being ... may become injuri­ous to the individual and the community." 
-Albert Einstein 






VIEWPOINT

page 8 Wednesday, September 24, 1997 
At Peace with Health Services 
• lEITERS TO THE EDITOR 
An allowance for death? 
Father Richard McCormick's account of the morality of reJusing or withdrawing life-sustaining nourishment to persons in a persistent vegetative state (PVS) is dis­turbing, not least of which because it is a widely held view amongst dissenters and proportionalists in both episcopal and academic theological circles, as rather McCormick himself enumerates (Sept. 23). 
At the heart of Father McCormick's account is the proposition that the choice to withdraw food and water from a PVS patient is not the cause of that person's death, as was argued in these pages by Charles Rice, but rather it is the "underly­ing lethal pathology" which, once nourishment is abated, takes its natural course and causes the death. Therefore, refusing or removing food and water is not killing, but merely "allowing to die," an (in)action felicitously free of the moral gravity of something like "killing." What Father McCormick's analysis of causation muddles is the centrality of morally significant choice and intention in the action of removing food and water. Whenever a person's dying is intended, either as a means or an end, that person has been killed. The fact that the means chosen to further the death happen to be an act of omission rather than commission is irrele­vant. The fact that the choice to deploy such means is done out of sincerely felt compassion and mercy is similarly irrelevant to the strictly moral question of choice, intention and object of action. One is therefore left wondering, after read­ing Father McCormick's no doubt well-intentioned critique, how the intention to remove food and water from a PVS patient~ who continues to subsist as a person, 
underlying pathology and all ­ is not an intention, even if in the most benignly  
motivated way, of killing?  
Kristopher I. Tefft  
Class of 1999, Notre Dame Law School  
September 23, 1997  

• WRONG SmE UP 
A couple of weeks ago, I was exercis­ing my mind, watching "Days of Our Lives" and enjoying a plump bag of Orville Redenbacher popcorn. I was happy as a little clam, living the good life and only marginally annoyed with the stupidity of the people of Salem. 

Margaret Shaheen 
All was· well until the show drew to its dramatic close: Sami had her memo­ry back, Austin wasn't Will's father and I was struck by a small tickle in the back of my throat. I coughed a few times, figuring ol' Orville had gotten himself lodged back there, but.nothing happened. 
The tickle remained. 
I went over to the mirror, said, "Ahhh" and began to tremble. It was back. Deep in the depths of my throat, a small hunk of something-much like an Altaid-was once again lodged. 
I stared in utter disbelief. Ilow could this be? My debris was back. There could only be one explanation. The Health Services were more powerful than I had thought. After my last arti­cle, they warned me that by criticizing them publicly, I was treading on sacred water. But how was I to know the Health Services had the power to curse me with the devil's debris? 
Fearing the worst, I turned to God for protection. "Dear Lord, please keep me well and if I do have to get sick, please let me get sick at home because Health Services hates me." I prayed after every sniffle, sneeze and hiccup. 
I think God agreed that this was in everyone's best interest to protect my health because I was in tip-top shape ... until Saturday. 
That was the day that God got nooded with calls. As the Notre Dame-Georgia Tech game headed into the fourth quarter, I saw numerous Fightin' Irish fans lower their heads in quiet prayer. Facing unforeseen adversity -not to mention NO was losing-fans wen~ hot, thirsty, constipated and despairing. Exploding toilets successfully noodcd the stadium, cut off soft drink supplies and forced vendors to charge $3 for a cheap plastic cup filled with ice and water so rancid, it must have been scooped up off the flooded stadium noor. On the field, things were not looking much better and fans began to wonder if the Irish would pull through. 
So, you see, it is no wonder that with 11 minutes left in a rather disastrous game, I started to feel a little nauseous. I sat down in the stands but only felt worse, so my friend and I decided to head back to my dorm. When we got out of the stands, I started to sec big, bright blotches amidst the whirling· world around me. I grabbed outo my friend's arm as she exclaimed, "Arc you going to pass out?" 
It was then that the mighty Health Services got their ultimate revenge. They woke up the echoes, shook down the thunder and sent me plummeting face first into a pond of toilet water. That's what I get for having called them "quacks." There I was, face down, quacking like a duck in a pond. The University Health Services is too powerful for me. 
I surrender. 
I woke up shortly after I hit the ground. A group of men led my sorry carcass to the first aid station where a woman sat me down, took my blood pressure and asked me to tell her my name. Midway through spelling my last name I realized that all these people, wearing Notre Dame t-shirts and hov­ering around a television, must be affil­iated with tlw llealth Services. 
Panic set in. It was too late; I had already given her my name. She asked me for either my campus or home address, but I said nothing. I was trying to figure out whieh address would throw her olT the trail. Which address would make her believe I wasn't the student who had eomplained because a doctor told me I had food stuek in my throat? Which address would be able to save me? 
Before I could aeknowledge that I was doomed either way, I heard my friend rattling off my campus address. 
It was all over. 
Despairingly, !laid down on a bed and watched the room come back into focus. The medical team was cireling like vultures. A nurse hunched over me, smiled and said, "How are you feel­ing?" 
"A little nauseous." 
I didn't think it would help my case if I threw up all over the place without giving a fair warning. 
"Well, we'll just wait until you're feel­ing better, and then we'll get you some­thing to drink. Do you like Gatorade?" Her eyes twinkled down at me, and I nodded. 

Time to Remember that 

We are all Somebody 
Last night I sat in an "I'm Thumbody'' training session and to my surprise I found myself surrounded by a roomful of Saint Mary's College volunteers. As a South Bend Saint Mary's alumna I felt a surge of pride and joy to be graced with the energy and presence of such a group of women. I was taken back to my col­lege days when the importance of community service and volunteering had been instilled in me by my alma mater. 
D1,1ring the course ofour ''I'm Thumbody" training we learned how to help ..l · graders in area elemelitai:'y seMols to feel>specHtl because "there's no one q like me or you.'' Like our thumbprints which each of us possess, no two people are alike in the entire world, but rather are unique and special. The goal of the program is to increase awareness of each child's self-worth and accep­tance of him/herself and others. Emphasis is placed on the concept that the numerous differences between individuals are expected, natural, unique and desirable. 
The Mental Health Association of St. Joseph County has sponsored these ''I'm Thumbody" programs for 15 years. The association then is relatively new at dealing with this concept that I had been taught through the tradition of Saint Mary's. As a local alumna since my graduation in 1979, I have eontinued to experience the wonder of my specialness and to discern what the Lord's will is for me. Often times I find myself back on campus, attending an alumnae board meeting, or a lecture on spirituality or celebrating Mass on campus just for the aura of Saint Mary's campus and to remember my roots. 
At the end of the ''I'm Thumbody" training session, we were instructed to sign up for the hours of available volunteer time we could contribute. It was then that I overheard the Saint Mary's students' diseussion of The Observer article recently authored by Notre Dame women that had insulted and hurt them deeply. l questioned the:ni out of curiosity and found a student promptly placing 
!'tide in my hands. l.Jponskimrning it, I toqwas sickened and deeply sad­
ened by the misuse of students' time and talent. 
I was again brought back to my college days. when I attended both Saint Mary's and Notre Dame. I told them briefly of the mistreatment I endured by my own fellow Saint Mary's classmates because I wore an Army uniform. As the frrst Saint Mary's student to be commissioned in Notre Dame's Army ROTC pro­gram, the pioneering effort was to be appreciated. Laughed at and scorned because it "wasn't Halloween" were small endurances that only made me tough and resilient. I had discerned the choice to the best of my knowledge that was the will of the Lord for.me, 
Yet and still, did we have to continue on in this direction? Can't the students of 
today learn from the mistakes of their forefathers and mothers? 
How could 1address this age-old challenge? I could only mumble that each of us needs to go back to third grade for an ''I'm Thumbody~ presentation. Perhaps the Mental Health Association needs to find funding for the college community to remind us of our uniqueness and specialness in our choices. That uniqueness included where we chose to attend college. 
It is my prayer for the ~aint Mary's/Notre Dame family that we remember and value our individual uniqueness. 
Mary Monaco Lauck Saint Mary's '79, South Bend September 16, 1997 

I propped myself up on my elbows and was shocked to see that my hands were clammy and purple. They were so repulsive I thought I might faint again. Then, I remembered the man who had helped me off the stadium noor and held my fish-like extremities in his own secure hands without showing any signs of repulsion or queasiness. 
The twinkling nurse returned with a cup of cool, blue Gatorade. She told me to take small sips, in case I was still nauseous. Two men turned and gave me encouraging smiles as I took my first sip. My head stopped spinning and it became clear that I was wrong, these people were no vultures. In fact, they were the kindest peopln I had ever met. 
Even in my half-conscious state, I knew the University Health Services were certainly a force to be reckoned with. But should you ever collapse into toilet water, or have anything else seri­ous happen to you, they are definitely the folks you want to have around. 
Margaret Shaheen is a sophomore Arts and Letters major at Notre Dame. She can be reached by e-mail at M argaret.L. Shaheen. 3@n d. edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those ofThe Observer. 
-------~----~-~-~·---~------­





ACCENT -. 
Wednesday, September 24, 1997 page 9 
Encountering spirituality an yourself {:;~~ , -"=-­



1 
By BRIDGET RZEZUTKO 
Accent Writer 
N
ot only are high academic standards a top priority in the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's community, but so are spiritu­al and personal growth. 
Greg Vanslambrook, a senior from Dillon llall. attended a Not~:e Dame Encounter dur­ing his freshman year. "It was the defining point in my Notre Dame experience. It is not just a feel-good experience but a way to show the best side of yourself and see the good in other people. It was an enlightening experience," he said. 
The Notre Dame Encounter {NDE) is a three-day weekend beginning on a Friday morning and ending on a Sunday evening. The retreat provides students with an oppor­tunity to explore both their relationship with 
Since its inception, NDE has provided stu­dents with opportunities to explore the reli­gious part of their life. 
"The retreat is structured so that God may come through and reach the people on it," Vanslambrook commented. Vanslambrook was a team leader for NDE his sophomore year. As a team leader he helped organize the retreat along with eight other team lead­ers and one student coordinator, who directs the retreat. 
"The students put quite a bit of time into planning the retreat. My experience with the students is a remarkable one. The effects of the retreat are ones they will carry with them for years," Bruno remarks. 
The students work together in groups, each group leading a discussion in spirituali­ty with the chance to openly share his or her beliefs. 
"It's an incredible opportunity to figure out 
God and where their com­you are mitment to going in living a life and Christian see the li f1~style. big pic­
" E a c h t u r e , " retreat junior takes on s c 0 t t its own C u II en character. said. The partic­T h e ipants are B o a r d what make p I a y s the retreat another possible. A intricate lot of part in unnxpect­the suc­ed events cess of 
occur. It is Photo courtesy of Mall Connor t h e An NDE small group bonds on a retreat weekend.
full of sur­retreat. 
prises," 
Vanslambrook rnmembers. 
The roots of the NDE are strong on this campus. It first began back in 1987 when Sister Jo Giarrante and Brother Bonaventure Scully took a group of 10 Notre Dame stu­dents to Hichmond, Va., where the students participated in a college retreat program sponsored by the Diocese of Richmond. The students wholeheartedly participated in the retreat and put what they learned into effect at Notre Dame. lienee the NDE officially began with the l"irst retreat in February of 1987. adapted from the Richmond model lirst experienced on that initial trip. 
Now. over a decade later. the NDE is a reg­ular occurrence that yields a significant impact on its participants. 
The goal of these retreats is just that -to provide an opportunity for students to come togetlwr, share experiences of God in their lives and to recognize God in others. 
"MorP than the fact that Notre Dame Encounter is one of the premier college encounter retreats in the country is that lives are significantly impacted and the faith of our students greatly enhanced with each retreat." Father Jim Lies, rector of Zahm llall. remarks. 
Heather Waring, a junior from Howard llall, agrees. "I wasn't all that religious before I went on an encounter, but I found it was an incredible experience. People often stereotype the type of people they think attend such functions, but the participants vary greatly. The weekend is a chance to get away and not even think about school work. I have never talked to anyone who has regretted going." 
Today the retreat is co-directed by both Lies and Sister Sue Bruno, rector of Pasquerilla West. They took over leadership from Father Tom Gaughan, who directed the program for eight years. 
T h e Board is comprised of four campus ministers and eight students. These coordinators plan the weekends of the retreats, finalize details and make sure the team members have everything they need. 
Laura Kalgran, a junior at Saint Mary's, participated in the encounter as a freshman, teamed a retreat as a sophomore and is on the Board this year. "A lot of soul searching takes place on a retreat. It is a chance to find out where you are on your walk with Christ. It is an honor to be involved," she said. "This year we hope to make the appli­cations more accessible to students, espe­cially those on the Saint Mary's campus, because anyone who is willing is able to attend. I don't feel as if too many Saint Mary's students know about the program," she added. 
The application process is relatively sim­ple. Applications must be turned in four weeks before the retreat weekend. They are made available from the library office of Campus Ministry on a Monday and are due by Friday of the application week. 
Due to the limited space at the Fatima Hetreat Center, located on the west end of campus, only 56 people can be accommodat­ed on each of the five retreats given each year. A lottery is enacted in order to ran­domly pick participants when applications exceed the space available. 
The first retreat of the year will be held the weekend of Oct. 3-5. The other four retreats are scheduled for Nov. 14-16, Jan. 30-Feb. 1, Feb. 27-March 1, and March 27­
29. If interested, more information can be found by calling Lies, Bruno or the library office of Campus Ministry. 
A special thanks to Father Jim Lies for all his help regarding this article. 
• AccENT AsKs ••• 

What does a Notre Dan1e Encounter n1ean to you? 

"(I think) it's a way to get in touch with others and learn 
more about your spiritual 
life." 

Sarah Wagner Freshman, Pangborn 
"A great way to meet peo­
ple through sharing your 
relationship with God." 

Rani Davidson Senior, Howard 


"Its a good place to meet chicks, yeah baby!!" 
Jim Blaum Junior, Carroll 
"It's about finding your place in the world." 
Isabel Perez-Franceschini Senior, Off-Campus 



"(I think) it's a chance to get away and think about life." 
Cynthia Montalvo Junior, Howard 
The Observer/Kevin Datum 


• I I 

----~----------------------~----------------------------------­
--------------~-----_,-------~---~~--· 
page 10 The Observer • SPORTS Wednesday, September 24, 199:l
I_ 
. 
• MAJOR lEAGUE BASEBALL 

Pirates remain in contention in NL Central race 
By BEN WALKER 
Associated Press Writer 
NEW YORK 
Shawon Dunston hit a tiebreaking single in the sev­enth inning and the Pittsburgh Pirates held their ground in the NL Central race Tuesday night with a 5-4 win over New York, moments after the Mets had been eliminated from playoff contention. 
The Pirates remained 3 1/2 games behind Houston, which beat Chicago 5-3. Pittsburgh won its fourth in a row, and plays Wednesday night at Shea Stadium before ending the sea­son with three games at the Astrodome.

.-The Mets, who extended their surprising run this year with three straight victories over Florida, were finally knocked out of their wild-card pursuit of the Marlins. Florida clinched its first playoff spot by beating Montreal 6-3 moments before the Mets lost. Francisco Cordova and three relievers teamed on a four-hit­ter and combined to strike out 
12. The Pirates won for the first time in five games at New York this year. 
Jose Silva (2-1) was the win­ner and Hich Loiselle got four outs for his 28th save. Loiselle's total is the second-highest in major league history for a rook­ie, trailing only Todd Worrell's 36 saves in 1986 for St. Louis. 
Pittsburgh overcame a 3-0 deficit, with Dunston's RBI sin­gle capping a three-run sixth that tied it at 3. 
In the seventh, Turner Ward doubled with one out off Cory Lidle (7-2) and Mark Smith walked. The runners moved up on a groundout and, after a walk to Joe Randa loaded the bases, Dunston lined a two-run single for a 5-3 lead. 
Dunston has hit safely in 16 of 17 games since being traded from the Cubs to Pittsburgh on Aug. 31. His three singles raised his batting average to .409 for the Pirates and his three RB!s gave him 15 with his new team. 

The Mets closed to 5-4 in the eighth on pinch-hitter Alex Ochoa's RBI groundout off Jason Christiansen. 
John Olerud hit a two-run homer. his 20th, off Cordova in the first. The Mets made it 3-0 in the fifth on Cordova's wild pitch. 
Mets starter Jason lsringhausen walked Tony Womack and Ward to start the sixth and Smith hit an RBI sin­gle that brought in reliever Lidle. Randa drove in one run with his second double and Dunston followed with an RBI single. 
Womack took the NL lead in stolen bases when he swiped his 57th in the sixth. 
Braves 6, Phillies 0 
PHILADELPHIA 
First, Atlanta rookie Kevin Millwood got some advice from teammate Greg Maddux. Then, he went out and pitched like him. 
Millwood allowed two hits in eight shutout innings and Andruw Jones and Michael Tucker hit consecutive homers, leading the Atlanta Braves to a 6-0 win over the Philadelphia Phillies. 
"Maddux said that the mound here was hard to get used to," Millwood said. "I threw some extra pitches during warmups in the first two innings and I felt better as the game went 
on.u 
Millwood (5-3) took a no-hit­ter into the seventh before Mike Lieberthal doubled to right-cen­ter with one out. The 22-year­old right-hander. making his eighth start this season, struck out a career-high eight and walked four in his longest out­ing. 
"I was aware of it. I think everybody was," Millwood said. "Too bad it couldn't happen, but it was a good win," 
Outs_tanding fielding plays by center fielder Jones and right fielder Tucker helped prolong Millwood's no-hit bid. 
"I really started to think about it after Jones' diving catch in the fourth," Millwoorl said. "After that, everybody in the dugout was keeping quiet." 
Midre Cummings doubled in the eighth for the Phillies' other hit off Millwood. 
"He could have finished, but I wanted (Brad) Clontz to get an inning," said Braves manager Bobby Cox. "If he had a no-hit­ter, I would have left him in. lie's pitched real good baseball for us." 
Philadelphia manager Terry Francona was impressed with the rookie. 
"He had a pretty good fastball and a real good breaking ball, and he changed speeds wcU," Francona said. "He's only 22 years old, and I can sec why they like him so much." 
Phillies starter Mark Leiter (1 0-17) allowed 10 hits in seven innings. He struck out nine and did not walk a batter. Leiter's 17 losses are the most in the majors and his 115 earned-runs are the most in the NL. 
With Atlanta leading 2-0 in the sixth, Jones led off with his 18th homer and Tucker fol­lowed with his 13th. Greg Colbrunn's two-run single in the eighth made it 6-0. 
Indians 10, Yankees 9 
CLEVELAND 
The Cleveland Indians clinched their third straight AL Central title Tuesday night, 

overcoming a seven-run deficit in a dramatic 10-9 victory over their age-old nemsis, the New York Yankees. 
About 10 minutes after the final out, Chicago was eliminat­cd from contention with a 5-3 loss in Minnesota. 
Cleveland, which won 27 games in its last at-bat in win­ning the AL championship in 1995, was 0-62 coming in when trailing after eight innings. 
David Justice hit a solo homer off Hideki Irabu to key a two­run eighth as the Indians pulled to 9-8, then tied it with an RBI single off Jeff Nelson in the ninth. 
Sandy Alomar, who hit a two-run homer and RBI single earli­er. singled to center to score Matt Williams, who walked. 
The 205th straght sellout crowd at Jacobs Field roared and jumped up and down when Alomar hit his game-winni~g single, and thousands stayed to watch the end of the White Sox game on the scoreboard televi­sion. 
Indians players watched from 
-the dugout in a situation Jus1ice­was quite familiar with. His for­mer team, .the Atlanta Braves, clinched their first of six straight division titles as thou­sands in Atlanta-Fulton County watched the San Francisco Giants lose on television. Justice also is the one who beat Cleveland with a solo homer for Atlanta in Game 6 of the 1995 World Series. Cleveland's comeback spoiled Tino Martinez's 44th homer, a two-run shot in the third that gave him 141 RBls. Kenny Hogers started for New York and was shaky, allowing six runs and seven hits in six innings. The Indians, who trailed 9-2 in the sixth. scored four in the sixth against their likely oppo­nent in the AL division series. 
After Justice ripped his 32n8 homer off lrabu, the Yankee~· struggling right-hander~ Alomar doubled. Mike Stanto• got pinch-hitter Jim Thome t• ground out for the second ouL But Tony Fernandez. who als• had a two-run homer. made L_ 9-8 with a single to right. 
Stanton got out of the innin~ but Jeff Nelson (3-7)-used iL a save situation instead of clos­er Mariano Hivera, met troubl'" in the ninth. 
Bip Roberts led off with '­walk, and Omar Vizquel sacri ficed. Manny ramirez struck ou looking, but Nelson walke< Williams, setting up Justice'· second dramatic hit in as man: innings. 
Jose Mesa (4-4), another ke' figure on that 1995 Clevelan~ team, got two outs for the victo ry. 
New York, second t< Baltimore in the AL East, wen well on their way to spoilin~ Cleveland's clinch party, am that would have been appropri· ate. Although they are 5-~ against Cleveland this_y_ea.:r., thf Yankees are and 13-5 at Jacob~ Field the past four seasons. 
The Yankees have won T7 ol 26 over the Indians and arf 1,003-805 lifetime agains1 Cleveland -the only quadru· pie-digit victory total against an opponent in AL history. Cleveland finished second to New York five times in the 1950s -the last time the Indians were contenders before going to the World Series in 1995. 
In another recurring theme, New York hammered Charles Nagy again. Nagy allowed six earned runs and seven hits in five innings. lie got a no-deci­sion and is 0-2 in three starts against New York this season (nine innings, 24 hits, 18 earrwd runs) and 6-9 in his career. 

The Observer accepts classilieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. 
Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
Classifieds 

In-home babysitter for 10-mo. old.  I need BC tix.  For sale: 2 USC GA's in sec.118.  000 THE COPY SHOP 000  
NOTICES  TUES/THURS P.M. for 4 hours. Home located 5 min.s from NO  FOR SALE  273-1510  Leave a message with best offer. 201-666-6102  LaFortune Student Center >J High-Speed Copies  
campus. Contact Carmen Nanni:  2 BC GAs  vCanon Color Laser Copies  
000 THE COPY SHOP 000  234-1744  1988 Pontiac 6000 LE. With radio,  Best Offer  Class of '88 needs 4 GA tixs for  ..J Digital Color Printing  
LaFortune Student Center  A/C, pwr windows/locks,  x2706  USC game. Call 818-790-0094 or  ..J Binding & Laminating  
Store Hours  Childcare needed for infant &  pwr steering, 137 klmi, drives like a  e-mail JPOOIG@AOL.COM  -1 Public Fax Service 631-FAX1  
Mon.-Thur.: 7:30 a.m.-Midnight  preschooler T/TH all day.  dream, for 1875 or best  NOTRE DAME  Phone 631-COPY  
Fri.: 7:30 a.m.-7:00p.m.  Car req'd: 20 min from NO.  offer. call 634·3660  FOOTBALL TICKETS  ONE USC TICKET WANTED-$  
Sat.: Noon-6:00p.m.  Experience & ref's desired.  ask for Henry  BUY · SELL· TRADE  Please call Mae at  Only PW would have a tailgater for  
Sun.: Noon-Midnight  (616)663-6006.  (412)443·0691 COLLECT  an lnterhall game! Thanks so much  
(closed home football Sat.'s)  # # # # # # # # # # # #  232-0058  Weasel Fans!  
Phone 631-COPY  Childcare needed for 8-yr. old.  For Sale:  Poor college student needs 2 tick- 
Wed, Thurs. Fri, 3:00-5:00 pm.  '88 Ford Escort  CONFIDENTIAL  ets for the USC game (for my broth- OUR SPIRIT IS UNDAUNTED.  
CHILD CARE  Transportation necessary. Call  white, 2 door, automatic  TICKET-MART, INC.  er and his wife). Please call 634­ WEASEL FOOTBALL WILL GO  
$50/wk. w/meals inc. in Clay Twp.  Angela 234-2211 day, 271-8224  great condition  3880.  ALL THE WAY.  
243-2821.  eve.  call 687-8435  BUY/SELL NO SEASON AND INDI·  
# # # # # # # # # # # #  VIDUAL GAME TICKETS.  10 USC GAs  "We are the WEASELS my friends:  
WANTED:  ..Spring Break..."Take 2""  674-7645.  40-yd line  and we'll keep on FIGHTING till the  
Hiring Reps! Sell 15 .. Take 2 Free.  Two Michigan tickets for sale.  FACE VALUE  end ... ~  
~  student volunteers for  Hot destinations! Free Parties,  Call Laura at 634-1487  Buying GA's seasons or individual  634-4823  
ALUMNI PUBLICATIONS/  Eats, Drinks. SunSplash 1-800-426­ games. Top dollar paid.  
NOTRE DAME MAGAZINE  771 0/www .sunsplashtours.com  Confidential service.  NEED 4 WV GA's. call 4-3025  whoever took my sweatshirt (fila)  
When? 3-5 hours/week starting  Car must sell.  Call 234-5650.  and the keys in it, GIVE IT BACK!!  
now: possibly to fill 12 hour paid position 2nd semester!  FOR RENT  Ford Tempo 1991, 4-door, air, very good condition.  NO FOOTBALL TICKETS  PERSONAL  Leave a message at 1862.  
CONTACT: 631-4638 or  $2800 or b/o. Call Emidio  FOR SALE  good luck on you test phys 241  
beal.1@ nd.edu  WALK TO CAMPUS  631-8594  DAYTIME#: 232-2378  So you thought that Riverdance  
ILOST & FOUND I  2-5 BEDROOM HOMES $195/PERSON 232-2595  FURNITURE MUST SELL New TV+VCR combination,  EVENING#: 288-2726 NO TICKETS WANTED  was great and would like to give Irish Dance a try? Here's your chance! An Irish Dance club is  i am going to die tonight. $13? dang, i'm slipping!  
A black watch on a velcro band was  1 BDRM. LARGE APT.  futon+mattress, Call Emidio 631-8594  DAYTIME#: 232-2378 EVENING #: 288-2726  forming and if you would like to be a part of the inaugral year call Patrick  ... ...RODEO  
lost last Tuesday night at Stepan  BDRM. HAS F/PLACE.  at 1651 . Experience would be  Anyone interested in  
Field. If you know where it is, please call Ryan at 4-1665.  $500/MO., $500 DEP. FEMALE ONLY.  TICKETS  FOR SALE  great but none necessary. All lev­els welcome.  starting and competing on a RODEO team  
INC. UTILITIES+ CABLE.  N.D. G.A.'S  here at Notre Dame  
Lost: Diamond Necklace last  243-2821.  I NEED GA TIXS ALL NO  FREE Facial & Mkvr w/ Mary Kay  contact Mike at  
Thursday at Jazzman's. Reward. If found, please call  ROOMS IN PRIVATE HOME FOR  HOME GAMES.272-6551  271-9412.  Call Margrette 2845099  289-2924.... ...RODEO  
284-4350.  FOOTBALL WEEKENDS AND  Wanted: NO Football Tickets  WANTED N D G A'S  Happy B·day JILL the THRILL!  
OTHER ND-SMC EVENTS.  Discreet Buyer -Call 1-800-255­ TO ALL HOME GAMES  Luv Vitamin C & Pinto  Happy Birthday Brian!  
VERY CLOSE TO CAMPUS-5  2850  271 1526  
WANTED  MIN. DRIVE OR 15-20 MIN. WALK. 243-0658.  HAVE WV/NAVY BUT NEED  NO Alum 2 pay TOP $$ 4 USC TIX!  Happy Birthday Leanne Love TDH  So you've made friends with the soccer goals. Next time you want  
Mich/USC. CAll Mel4-1349 if  410-737-6115  to sleep in a tent, let me know and  
WANTED: Greek tutor to teach  THAT PRETTY PLACE, Bed and  want to sell/trade!!  Be a part of history at NO's biggest  we'll go camping or something.  
conversational Greek, call 233­ Breakfast Inn has space available  NEED 2 NAVY TIX. CALL FRANK.  dance party EVER! WSND 88.9  
1239  for football/parent wknds. 5 Rooms  USC GA FOR SALE! 50 YO LINE­ 800-243-9683.  1m's Retro 70's Dance is coming.  Amy B. -Sorry I've been such a  
with private baths, $70-$90,  BEST OFFER 271-7458  Stay Tuned ...  negligent friend. We'll have fun this  
Babysitter wanted for 3 yr. old.  Middlebury, 30 miles from campus.  ALUM NEEDS GA TIX TO HOME  weekend!!!!  
Flexible hours. 2.5 m from campus.  Toll Road, Exit #107,  need 2 BC GA's  GAMES AND LSU  i know what graham-swartz  
277-1037  1-800-418-9487.  call jen @ x0849  CALL MIKE 800-991-0525  orthogonilization is! ·  A penny for my thoughts.  

Wednesday, September 24, 1997 The Observer· SPORTS page II 

Sportscaster admits to affair; other issues unclear 
---, 
The Church & Social Action, colloquially known as the Urban Plunge is a 2-day experience that takes place in one of many cities throughout the US, observing and/or working with individuals, agencies and parishes, which are striving to meet the needs of the disenfranchised of society. 
What is the purpose of the Plunge? The Plunge has three major goals: 
1. 
To allow students the opportunity to experience and learn first-hand the problems of injustice and poverty that exist in the urban areas ofAmerica. 

2. 
To increase awareness of and contact with individuals and organizations that are working to alleviate situations of injustice and poverty. 

3. 
To help integrate the college experience, curricular and extra-curricular activities with future goals of study and work. 


When does the Plunge take place? The Plunge takes place any two days, depending on your site, between the days of]anuary 3-January 10, 1998. 
How do I learn more about the Urban Plunge? 
Pick up available information at the CSC -Center for Social Concerns Attend one of the informational Meetings to be held at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's. 
Who can participate in the Urban Plunge? Any Holy Cross, Saint Mary's or Notre Dame student that has an interest in learning more about urban issues in an urban setting. 
How do I apply? Pick up an application at the CSC; application deadline is November 5, 1997. 
-

By MICHELLE BOORSTEIN 
Associated Press Writer 
ARLINGTON, Va. 

Marv Albert is baring his sex­ual secrets in an attempt to save himself from prison. 
The prosecution and defense agree that the veteran NBC sportscaster and the woman he is accused of assaulting had a rough-and-tumble sex life in their 10-year relationship. They agrne on little else. 
With a jury of seven women and five men looking on, prose­cutors on Monday said Albert was angered when a three-way tryst at a hotel didn't material­ize, throwing down his lover and telling her: "You've been a bad girl, you didn't bring any­body." 
Albert then allegedly bit her repeatedly on the back and forced her to perform oral sex. Charged with sodomy and assault and battery, he could face from five years to life in prison if convicted. Under guidelines for a first offense, sentencing likely would range from 15 years for an attack without serious injury to 40 years in an attack that caused serious injury. 
Nancy Penwell, a friend of the accuser, was the first wit­ness to be called as testimony began today. Albert's accuser was also expected to testify today. 


XtreamZ Nightclub 11 SO Mishawaka Ave. South Bend Ave. IN 4661 5 
•••••••••••••••• 219·283·0653 •••••••••••••••••• 
The defense contends the 42­year-old woman was obsessed with celebrities such as the 54­year-old Albert and Peter Jennings; Jennings, the ABC News anchor, later denied in a statement knowing the woman. 
"How many of you have seen the movie 'Fatal Attraction?'" defense attorney Roy Black asked potential jurors, refer­ring to the movie about an obsessed woman who stalks an ex-lover. 
Outlining the foundation of his defense, Black argued that the woman was lashing back at Albert because her life was falling apart -she had lost her job and Albert had recently told her he was thinking of getting married to another woman. He • was divorced five years ago. 
In December 1996, Black said, the woman had been admitted to a mental hospital after a suicide attempt. 
Black said the woman asked to be bitten and suggested oral sex because she did not have contraceptives with her. He accused her of meticulously planning to entrap Albert, going so far as to spit his semen into her underwear. 
"She's collecting evidence," Black said. 
Jurors heard even more details about the relationship between Albert and his accuser during the trial's first day. Prosecutor Richard Trodden spoke of consensual three-way sex and telephone sex conver­sations filled with fantasies. He said Albert asked his lover to bring women's underwear to their meetings for him to wear. 
Trodden said Albert had repeatedly expressed his wish for three-way sex with another man to his lover before the two met at the Ritz-Carlton Hotel in Arlington on Feb. 12. 
He said they watched a pornographic movie before the attack. 
Trodden said Albert pinched the woman's cheeks and ignored the woman's pleas of "Stop, you're hurting me," and mocked her, saying, "You know you like this." 
The normally stoic Albert looked away from the jury box and began taking notes at this point. His fiancee, ESPN pro­ducer Heather Faulkiner, sat behind him, expressionless. One of his two adult children in the courtroom, daughter Denise, winced. 
Black, however, told jurors: "Everything that happened that night was consensual. It was the same thing that happened every other night when Marv and (the woman} got together." 
The trial is expected to last about a week. 

Have something to say? Use Observer classifieds. 
Participate in a 30 Year Tradition... 




The Urban Plunge 


CENTER FOR 
(The Church & Social Action) SOCIAL CONCERNS 
What is the Plunge? 
---.........-~
~~----....--.....,...,-----------------.-~------~----..----~-~------------__........ ­
page 12 The Observer • SPORTS Wednesday, September 24, 1997 
• FooTBAll 
Offense remains major concern for stagnant Irish 
By BETSY BAKER 
Associare Sports Editor 
The offensive problems that exist for the Notre Dame football team right now more or less cre­ate a double-edged sword. On one side, there is a problem within the unit -a wavering confidence level and a failure to produce points. On the other side, there is the No. 1 defense in the nation anxiously awaiting the arrival of the Irish offense in Ann Arbor on Saturday. 
Still. Notre Dame head coach Bob Davie hopes, and Michigan head coach Lloyd Carr fears, that the Irish offense is overdue, a time bomb waiting to go off. 
"Notre Dame is the best foot­ball we'll have played this year," Carr said. "They're going to come in here and play their best game of the season. I have no doubt about that. I think any team that has great tradition is going to come fighting back. We expect them to do that." 
In order to do so, however, the Irish are going to have to work out some major kinks in the offense, and are going to have to develop a rhythm that has been missing in the last two games, all in the next three days. 
"On offense, we've been able to move the ball, as you know; we haven't been able to score points," Davie said, at his weekly press conference yesterday. "No. 1, we need to execute bet­ter. If you're not going to get plays in big chunks, then you need to commit yourself to just being an execution team and work at getting things the hard way . . . I think the second thing, we have to get the football more and in better field position, and that means defensively, we have to play better in the kicking game." 
Many people have questioned the role of Ron Powlus as the starting quarterback, and feel 
The Observer/Brandon Candura 

Ron Powlus will maintain his reign of the Irish offense when the team takes the field Saturday in Ann Arbor. 
qnformation %eting with Wrofessor .A._ngefa CJ3oreffi 
Jarious Jackson, who has been looked at as a possibility to run the option, might provide the spark Davie has continually stressed the offense needs. Still, Davie said that he docs not feel that using Jackson, while it very well could provide a spark, is worth the cost of shuffiing up the shaky Irish offense. 
"We've talked about that a lot [using Jackson I. and there's some merit to that," Davie said. "You know, with everything you do, there's a tradeoff. But I just don't think right now that the pluses outweigh the minuses for doing that." 
Powlus will remain the chosen leader of the offense, and Davie has called in outside linebacker Kory Minor to be the play-caller on the defense. Minor has been one of the key leaders of the Irish defense, coming up with key interceptions against both Purdue and Michigan State, with the one against the Spartans set­ting up the only Irish touehdown of the game. · 

The Irish defense, whieh will be once again missing inside linebacker Bobbie Howard and end Corey Bennett, who rein­jured his knee last week, will have a major challenge ahead of it, going up against a Wolverine running game that is averaging 243 yards a game and altnrnates three different tailbacks. 
The major underlying story for the Irish this week. though, is the fact that they will head into the "Big House" for the first time since 1993 when they beat the Wolves 27-23. With a capacity of 102,501, Michigan Stadium is one of the hardest plaees to play in the country, but neither team is taking the rivalry for granted. 
"I think it's a love-hate rela­tionship," Michigan inside line­backer Erie Mayes commented. "You look at Notre Dame as a program that has the same respect (nationally) as Michigan. We definitely look at this as a prestigious college football game. These are two great teams with great histories." 

.JPW .JPW 
ATTENTION SoPHOMOREs! 

Get involved in 1997-98 JPW 
The committee for this Y,ear's Junior Parent's Weekend is looking for a Sophomore Chairperson. This is your chance to get involved in one of the most exciting events of junior year. Don't let this opportunity pass YOU by, apply now! 
• 
Applications are now available at the LaFortune Infomation Desk 

• 
Applications must be returned to 315 LaFortune by September 26. 



If you have any questions please call Jeff Jones at x1631 
•

.JPW .JPW 
DANCE CLUB ROCK CLUB 

IDdustrfa.l-Progrsssfvs -Rstro -AJtsrDaffvsDaDcs 
lrtnl •dmfllfDD wfi.IJ r•lfd DD//11111 ID At prop11r IdiiDIIIfo•tiDD 
EVERY WEDNBSDAY Snow Crab Legs, All-U-Can-Eat, just 15.95 
9 oz. Top Sirloin Butt Steak & lib. of Snow Crab Legs,just 17.95 
-
Open 5-lOpm Tues.-Thurs. & 5-llpm Fri. & Sat.
Spring 1998 Application Deadline Oct.1 Free Admission to Heartland with Dinner
1998-99 Application Deadline Dec.1 
11!:~ Stuull/4 ~ h -'-4 t6 ~ fJUU(i~ 222 S. MICHIGAN· SOUTH BEND· (219) 234-5200 

-·~ ~ ~--~----~· ---~ 
Wednesday, September 24, 1997 
The Observer • SPORTS page 13 
• WOMEN's INTERHA!..L fOOTBALl 


Squads work into mid~eason form during week two 
By BRIAN KESSLER 
Sports Writer 
Pasquerilla West 6, Farley 6 
Farley was truly at its "finest" 
The William and Katherine Devers Program in Dante Studies 
in conjunction with the Medieval Institute 
presents: 
!~ 

CONVERSATION ON O~J7~.~ 1 
·:: ,•' 
.... ·:•.•:•.•.· .;:::..... ··.·: ·.·.·=·. 

Department of Special Collections, 102 Hesburgh Library A reception will follow the lecture; all are welcome. For further information contact the Devers Pro_gram in Dante Studies at 631-5610. 
on Monday when it took the field against the Purple Weasels ofPW. 
Farley had not won a football game in two years and dropped its first game of the season to Lewis Hall. However, the Finest were outstanding on both sides of the ball, enabling them to play to a 6-6 tie. 
The Purple Weasels got on the board .first. Midway through the first half, junior quarterback Liz McKillop 

tM 
Come Find Out More About 
CENTER FOR 
SOCIAL 
the

CONCERNS 




URBo\X PLUXGE 
P:ROG:RAX 

Informational Meeting 
Wednesday, September 24 7:00pm 


LeMans Lobby Saint Mary's College 
All Students Are Welcome 
For Additional Information Contact Rodney T. Cohen Director of Uran Programming & Outreach Development University of Notre Dame 
631-7949 
Jan Pilarski Justice Educational Coordinator Saint Mary's College 
284-4512 
hooked up with Kelly McMahon 
to cap off a 50-yard drive. 

The PW defense held Farley 
scoreless until late in the sec­
ond half. Kelly Shannon inter­
cepted a Liz McKillop pass on 
Farley's side of the field. After 
Kelly returned the ball to the 
five-yard line, freshman quar­
terback Jenny Geraci punched 
the ball in on a quarterback 
keeper. 

Farley was unable to take the 
lead when Geraci's pass 
attempt fell short and the extra 
point failed. 

PW had a good chance to score late in the second half, but McKillop's pass fell incom­plete and the Purple Weasel's were turned away as time expired. 
"Our defense played excep­
tionally well," commented 
Geraci. "They kept us in the 
game." 

Farley's record now stands at 0-1-1 and it is still in search of that elusive first win. 
This was the first game for PW whose record now stands at 0-0-1. 
Purple Weasel captain Amy Crawford said, "The tie was disappointing, but we hope to use it as a springboard to a suc­cessful season." 
Welsh Family 24, Off-Campus 0 

Welsh bounced back from its 7-6 loss to McGlinn on Sunday by blowing out Off-Campus on Monday night. The Whirlwind completely dominated the game and didn't allow their opponent 

SOCIAL PARTY MIXER FOR GRAD STUDENTS, LAW STUDENTS, STAFF/FACULTY-DOORS OPEN 8 PM TO CLOSE 
FREE ADMISSION 
* * * * * * * * * * * 
THURSDAY'S (OLLEGE NIGHT 
SEPTEMBER 25TH, FEATURING FROM Los ANGELES, THE DJ TANDEM OF 
DJ Q AND DJ SLICE 
E BEST TURNTABLE DJ'S TO HIT SOUTH BEND. A SHOW YOU 
DON'T WANT TO MISS. 
DOORS OPEN 8:00 P.M. 
21 AND OVER WITH PROPER ID's 
$2.00 WITH COLLEGE ID-$4.00 WITHOUT 
OFF DUTY UNIFORM POLICE SECURITY­
LIGHTED PARKING 
SAVE $2.00 WITH THIS AD BEFORE 11:00 PM 
Coming Thursday October 9th Shooting Cupid ___ ___5_p_i_e_ce__b_an_d__ ___ _ ____ 
to cross midfield. Coach John  
Kuka was pleased with his  
team's precise passing game  
and swarming defense.  
Sophomore quarterback  
Stephanie Eden threw three  
touchdown passes.  
Sarah Lett caught two TD  
passes, while Kelly Naco] was  
on the receiving end of the  
other. April Olsen scored the  
final touchdown when she  
intercepted a pass in the end  
zone. Off-Campus fell to 0-2,  
while Welsh improved its  
record to 1-1.  
Lewis 12, McGlinn 0  
The Lewis defense propelled  .....  
the Chicks to a 12-0 victory  
over McGlinn on Monday night.  
Cornerback Maureen Neville  
led the defense with three  
interceptions, including one she  
returned for the game-clinching  
touchdown late in the second  
half. Her first interception and  
return setup the game's first  
touchdown.  
Several plays later, quarter­ 
back Liz Talarico found Carrie  
Upp in the back of the end  
zone.  
The extra point attempt  
failed, but the Chicks got out to  
an early lead. The Lewis  
defense held McGlinn on sever­ 
al occasions, including a few  
key sacks by captain Kelly  
Donohue.  
The shutout improved the  
Chicks record to 2-0, proving they were a lot better than their  ---1  
No. 11 preseason ranking.  
McGlinn fell to 1-1.  

page 14 The Observer • SPORTS Wednesday, September 24, 1997 
• COllEGE FOOTBALL 



Kentucky offense catches Spurrier's attention 
By DOUG FERGUSON 
Associated Press Writer 
GAINESVILLE, Fla. 

Florida coach Steve Spurrier is so single-minded about cranking up the Fun 'N' Gun that he rarely pays attention to any offense but his own. 
But when Tim Couch of Kentucky opened the season by throwing for 398 yards and four touchdowns against Louisville, then threw for seven touchdowns in a 49-0 win last week at Indiana, Spurrier couldn't help but take a peek. 
"I did get a chance to watch what they did a little bit this week," Spurrier said. ''I'm sort of curious to how they're doing it." 
After all, No. 1 Florida has beaten the Wildcats by a com­bined score of 180-14 the past three games. In a 65-0 win last year in Gainesville, th!:J Gators held Kentucky to 65 yards of offense. 
But since coach Hal Mumme replaced Bill Curry in the spring, these Wildcats are of a different stripe, particularly in the one area that is sure to get 
Harris 
continued from page 16 
"I was really excited about seeing her," Susan commented. "I hadn't seen her in about two months. It was nice to see her after all this time." 
After the game, there was a small family reunion of sorts, with both sisters, their parents, and other assorted guests. Denise had two kills with a .250 hitting percentage while Susan came up with a service ace. 
The Irish, now 7-5 on the season, will take the next 10 Spurrier's attention. 
"I think everyone realizes that Kentucky has got the No. 1 offense in the conference right now, and the No. 1 pass offense," Spurrier said. 
Indeed, they do. The Wildcats (2-1, 0-1 SEC) are fifth in the nation with 
480.7 yards a game, and their 381 yards passing is tops in the country. 
The 15 touchdown passes, all by Couch, are already the most in a season since 1951 and the third-highest in school history. Kentucky even has a catchy nickname: "Air Raid '97." 
"They're a little more heavy toward the pass than we are," Spurrier said. 
Through three games, Florida has run 206 plays, divided evenly among the run and the pass. A year ago, Kentucky passed the ball 38 percent of the time. This year, the Wildcats are passing 64 percent of the time. 
"It's a different Kentucky team than the ones we have been playing," Spurrier said. 
Spurrier tried to recruit Couch, a 6-foot-5 sophomore, 
days off from competition before beginning the quest for their third straight Big East title. 
"We are going to be chang­ing our lineup," Brown remarked. "We have some new ideas that we're going to work on, and most of it will affect our offensive style. We need to work on a lot of things that need to be straightened out and try to put some things back together." 
The Irish will finish their six­game homestand with matches against St. John's, Connecticut and non-conference opponent Illinois State, before taking their title defense on the road. 




ATTIMTIOM: 

but gave up quickly when it lVas apparent Couch wanted to play in his home state. Still, the fact that Spurrier knows so much about Kentucky is revealing. 
After all, when asked about Lee Roberts of Southern Miss, the Gators' first opponent this year, Spurrier confirmed that Roberts was indeed the quar­terback, but all other questions 
would  be  directed  toward  
defensive  coordinator  Bob  
Stoops.  

Even when asked last week about Peyton Manning of Tennessee, Spurrier acknowl­edged only that he was a good quarterback. 
He spent the rest of his time 

talking up his own quarterback, nice, catchable pass. Now he's Doug Johnson. got an offensive coach and a And what about Couch? system there that's going to "He's a big-time prospect," enable him to break all the Spurrier said. "He throws a records." 


1t=3 .141592 65 Double Slice Pizza=$1.99 
The ratio of the circumference of a Fazoil's pizza to its diameter 'is delicious. And getting one is as easy as pie. Just dine in, carry out or drive through for Double Slice or a whole pie. 
CLASS OF '98 PEP RAI,LY 
FE_A._T-...I~I~ 


MICH. TIX RAFFLE 
THE BAND 

BOB DAVIE THE LEPRECHAUN 
THURSDAY 8PM ALUMNI/SR. CLUB DONATION AT DOOR TO BENEFIT ADAM SARGENT 
Wednesday, September 24, 1997 
The Observer • TODAY 
MIKE PETERS 
YOUR HOROSCOPE 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: 1\!;rrtl:w Cmham, Salvador Dali, Fo~tt:.·r 13rooks, \Jat<1sl1a Richardst,n 
DF.AR ~UC ;!-.NJ,\. I was born Aug. 
25. 1'147, dt 2:15 p.m. T'm ,uLxious (o buy cHy cn·vn house and hop-e lo do 50 this year. I'm pr~>enth doing ;ome .-.elf-developtuent court-es, ant.! h<'\\'4.."': seen ~onlt" reaJ chr,ngt·.s. I vvr1nt tn n1ake a thartHL' in my bu:o..iness. i.e., hav~· 111v own businl~ss instead of \·vorking" fnr ~nmc•one dse. and I very much \Yant to be in a commit[~·d, monogamnlb relationship, hopt·iully with someone with c·hi ldrl'rt. Wh.il can l do to mow <1ll tlus .1lnng? 
\'ir~o 
Deor Virgo: I can understand 
~our desire for change. You may 
h.we beet\ born under th • sign 
Virgo, but you have an extremely 
strong Leo influence in your notal 
chart. Opporlunitie& for better rela· 
lionships are pr~s~nt at the end of 
this year and beginning of nexl. 
Making residential moves are more 
appareitt next year than this. Start­
ing your own busine» is hot right 
now, so get moving. You need to 
focus on your professional goals and 
initiate all of ynur ideas. This is also 
a great time for you to get into self­
improvement and owareness. You 
will have the discipline to curb bad 
habits and to become the best that 
you can be. As for mcvting potential 
mates, I fed strongly that you must 
get out and do the things you enjoy 
doing most, and hopefully you will 
meet someone with similar interests. 
Travel~ le-arning,. courses, and so 
on arc all a mean• of meeting that 
•pedal ~omcone. You match up well to the signs Gemini, Sagittarius and Aquarius 
ARIES (March 21-April20): Trv to 'lnivc domestic disputt~s n.·n~onul"J!y. 
page 15 
EUGENIA LAST 

;\n unreal as~ess1nent of vour sur­roundings i~ lik~lJv. ­
TAURUS !April 21-May 21): Oppurtumties ~or trcn·el and 5ocializ­mg .1n.. L"Vidcnt. Someone around you may nol be trustworthy. 
GEMINI (Mar 22-June 21): lk 
cautious of d<'<::eptinn when dealing 
with ~lrgiHll/t\tlnns you W1!".h to join . 
Situabnn< may not be as they appeat. 
CAJ\CER <June 22-July 22): Get 
rmdy to make personal chanp,e>. Bl' 
s~creli,'e nboul your intention~ 
reg,lrding '\vorl.. TakE:' Hme tu \'i"'it thr· 
ill. 
LEO Culy 2.1-Aug. 23): Uncerlain­
h~s regarding co-workers will pre,·aiJ. 
lk sure nol In share your idea~ \\ith 
those who ma\· ltv lo i,1ke the credit. 
VIRGO (Aug. 24-Sept. 22): Opporlunitie> to make chang~s in vour home environment will be to }··ourild\'Clntag:l'. Think hetorc vou act. 
LIBRA !Sept. 23-0ct. 23)!0ppnr­tunitil·s !11 ch.mgt' \"our lift'<tyle will b(· to ynur adv,mt.lge. Your self­awar~~ne~s will develop through yotrr cornn1unication \Vith pt•er<:i 
SCORPIO (Oct. 24-1\.ov. 22): Opportunitit>~ tn trc1V('l nr attC'nd lcc­tmt·' will J,,dnp. Be l]Ltick to jump ,1t the options presented. 
SAGITI"ARIL'S (1\ov. 23-Dec. 21J: ~toney-making oppurtnnitie~ will unfold. Howevt'r, you rnuot not overextend vourself. 
CAPRICOR"' (Dec. 22-jan. 20): Ar;;uml'nt,; on the home iront are likely ti you h.wc let problems iesler. ChJngcs with your living arrange­m<'nts are likelv. 
AQUARru·s (Jan. 21-feb. 18l: Get oul with friends or lm·ers tonight. Combme social adivih· and work to enhance your rt'putatiuit. 
PISCES !Feb. 19-March 20): Soci,ll upportunitic::-will b•· ~nlightcning and t•nhe:1nCl' your dl~lnccc; of meeting nt:.'"'..V 1<.1\'l'rs_ You can enjoy competi­ti vc sports programs. 

MOTHER GOOSE & GRIMM 
DILBERT 
I'l"\ PUTTING 
YOU IN CHARGE OF GETTING 
ISO 1YOOO CERTIFrCATION. 


HEY, I THINK 

BETWEEN  TI-\P..T  AND  I'LL USE THAT  YEAI-I,  
I 50  '1000?  ONE AT THE  THAT'LL  
5TOCKHOLDER  WAKE  
1"\EETING!  THEM UP.  


:; 
0 
() 
-' 
~ 
® 
:;
"' 
0 
"' 
I­I­
"' 
0 
() 
"' 


Wanted: Reporters, photographers and editors. Join The Observer staff. 
CROSSWORD  
ACROSS  32 Sleuthing dog  64 Sting operation  
1 1958 Elvis song 5&101957 Elvis song 14 Personal prefix  33 Room at the top 34 Health club 37 1956 Elvis song 41 Trouser half 42 Hotel posting  65 Elvis's middle name 66 1964 Elvis song 67 1976 Elvis song  
15 "Dallas"  43 In apple-pie  
matriarch 16 He sang about  order 44Attuned  DOWN  
Alice  45 1969 Elvis  
17 Somewhat, musically 18 Rey's mate  movie 47 Yellow-fever mosquito 50 Carpet cleaner,  1 Short swim 2 What the nose knows 3 "Treat Me--"  
19 Part of N.B.  for short  (1957 Elvis  
20 1962 Elvis song  51 1956 Elvis song  song)  
23 Dedicatory phrase 24Equals  58 Mideast's Gulf of-­59 Lightened one's billfold  4 Harbor alert 5 Brat &Actress  
25 "Little--"  60 Official  Verdugo  
(1961 Elvis  proceedings  7 Advanced Eng.  
song)  62 VHS alternative  degree  
29 Man of La  63Actor  8 Pebbles's pet  
Mancha  Williamson  9 Pro votes  
10 Full-width  
headline  

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 11 wear away 12 Take in or let .;.+::;;:.+~.,:.+:=-! out -7-1-=-t~F---iR 13 Crowd noises ~~~~~~--~~~~ 21Shoshonean ---~~~~ ~~~~ 22 Significant time
~7-t=+~ 25 Satirical Mort 26Words of -=t:=+':'t:=+:':-i understanding 27 Daddy deer 

IJII•"=BI-':-i.• i;!llim~••• 28 Pitch 
II ,:: 29 Charger 
~:::+=+:-+.=+=-+:=:-t 30 Hellenic vowels ~;+::..f.:,;.! 31 Beat ending =t=+::=-r.::-t 33 Commedia 
dell'­


.. 
34 Suffix with hip 
35 Fruit baked in wine 36 Countertenor 38 Long lock 39Airplane compartment 
40 "Puppet-­String" (1965 Elvis song) 
44 Ed Wynn's son 45 Dungeons & Dragons locale 
46F.D.R.'s predecessor 
47Addis--54 Flatten 48 Cain vis-a-vis 55 Scout recitation Abel 
56 Stocking 49 Because of shade 
50 Snake spit 57 "Flaming--" 52 Annapolis in its. (1960 Elvis movie)
53 Prot. denomination 61 Likely 
Answers to any three clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420-5656 (75¢ per minute). 
Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7 -ACROSS. 
·-­

Ask ycturself, Is oleohoi doing yttU metre gc»od than harm, or more harm than good? 
Spon11ored by the Office of Aleohol and Drug Education 


SPORTS 

page 16 Wednesday, September 24, 1997 
• MEN'S SOCCER
• VOLLEYBALL 

Irish control Eastern Illinois 
Last night's shutout was the second in a row
Turner keys home 

for Notre Dame's defense, who most recently defeated West Virginia 3-0. The defense was able to thwart the Panthers' feeble attempts at

victory over hapless 

an offense, while crushing their hopes of getting their first win on the season. 
"I am very pleased with the way our defense 
has been playing," Berticelli commented. By DAN LUZIETTI "Senior goalie Greg Velho, in particular, has and TOM STUDEBAKER been playing solid. He has not put himself in bad Sporrs Writers situations and has held on to the ball in tough 
times." The Notre Dame's men soccer team defeated 

regional opponent 

Notre Dame was able to control the ball for the Eastern Illinois last night by a score of 1-0. It majority of the game. The Panther defense was was the second win in a row for the Irish, who' constantly on its heels as the Irish attack relent­boosted their record to 4-2-2 on the season. lessly pursued the ball to create scoring chances. "We definitely came into the game with some Senior midfielder Bill Savarino was vnry active in clear cut goals in mind, and I feel that we did a the Irish pressure.good job accomplishing them," head coach Mike lie, along with the rest of the midfield, was Berticelli said. "First and foremost we wanted a able to force many turnovers and keep the ball shutout against Eastern Illinois. We also tried to on Eastern Illinois' half of the field. create better scoring chances up front. We cro­Notre Dame looks to continue its winning ways 
ated a lot, but now we need to finish more of as it approaches a crucial weekend of Big East those chances." play. The Irish face Villanova and Rutgf)rs this Senior co-captain Hyan Turner scored the lone wenkcnd, who along with Notro Dame are tied 
goal of the gamn off a Scott Wells pass from the for third in the conference. end line. Turner has stepped up his play in the "This win gives us some needed momnntum as 
past five games, accounting for five of Notre we approach the important weekend," Borticelli Dame's six goals in that span. Turner's seqson said. "It is always easier to come out and playtotals of five goals and four assists lead the Irish. c:ompctitively after a win than hoping to rebound 
The loss dropped Eastern Illinois to 0-8 on the from a tough loss. We arc playing well right now season, but the Panthers continue to play with and hopefully this will carry over into tlw heart. The loss was their fifth decided by one upcoming weekend." goal this season. 
Girton, who recorded six and

ND pounds 

seven kills respectively. Late in the match, freshman Katie Ward got her first action of the 

Marquette in 

season, registering one kill and serving an ace during the
three-set match last few plays. "Overall, we did very well,"
By BILL HART 

head coach Debbie Brown 
Sports Writer 

said. ''I'm proud of how every­one played, and I think we 
Despite close losses through­were well prepared for this out the season, Notre Dame's match. I think we're startingvolleyball team has always to overcome some obstaclesmanaged to rebound and win we've been having this season. 

the next match, usually by a Marquette didn't put a lot of wide margin. 

pressure on us tonight, and I Last night, the Irish contin­think that makes a lot of dif­
ued in that same manner, 

ference during the course of
defeating the Marquette 

the match." 
Golden Eagles easily in three 
The match statistics were
sets, 15-3, 15-4, 15-5. 

stacked in Notre Dame's favor, In the first game, the Irish as the Irish turned in a hitting
took a 4-0 lead before percentage of .406 to the

Marquette called its first time­

Golden Eagles' .102. Along
out. The team then added two with the best hitting percent­more points before the Golden age in its past 50 matches, the ... Eagles finally got on the board. 

team also held a 5-4 blockingDespite a short rally by the edge and held a 1-to-1 ace-to­Golden Eagles, the Irish took error ratio. Harris' .571 hitting
the second game handily. 

percentage was the second­Marquette took a quick 4-2 
best performance of her Irishlead in the third set, but the career, topped only by a first­
Irish went on an 11-0 run 

round NCAA tournament 
before the Golden Eagles could match against Ohio State lastrespond. 

season.
The Irish were led once The match held a special

.-again by senior hitter Angie significance for freshmanHarris, who scored a team­
Denise Boylan, whose sister
high 13 kills on 21 attempts 

Susan is a junior on the
with only one errvr. She was Golden Eagle squad. 

The Observer/John Daily 
backed by fellow senior Jaimie Sophomore defender Matt McNew lines up a shot in last night's match-up against Eastern Illinois. NotreLee and freshman Christi see HARRIS I page 14 Dame prevailed over the winless Panthers by a score of 1-0 to move to 4-2-2 on the season. 



... 
at Michigan, September 27, 2:30p.m. 

Volleyball a) 
•Women's interhall football coverage
vs. St. Xavier, at Rutgers, 
~ 
September 24, 7 p.m. 
September 26, 7:30p.m. 
see page 13 

....
.--= 
..f)f '% 
Villanova, 

Cross Country CI:J •Davie prepares for Michigan 
';M September 26, 7:30 l>.m. 
at Adrian, 

~ 
see page 12St. John's, September 27, 11 a.m. 
October 3, 7 p.m. 

~ 







