
Thursday, January 16, 1997 • Vol. XXX No. 70 THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
King's legacy, challenge celebrated 
Prayer service begins week­long tribute 
By CHRIS SHIPLEY News Writer 
The 68th birthday of the late Reverend Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. was celebrated last night in the Chapel of the Holy Cross with a prayer service. 
The celebration, filled with singing and dancing was meant to praise the philoso­phies and dreams of the late Civil Rights leader. • 
The festivities last night were the first in a week long series of events which will last through Monday, the observed Martin Luther King Jr. holiday. 

The words of King's "I Have a Dream" speech echoed The Faith Christian Center Church Children's Sign Choir performed at last night's prayer service honor­


throughout the chapel as the ing Martin Luther King, Jr. audience gathered and began 
The musical and dramatic 
the evening's activities. 
talents of Notre Dame students 
Chandra Johnson director of and South Bend communitythe Marting Luther King Jr. 
members highlighted the Celebration Comittee then 
evening which was capped off challenged the audience, in a by the keynote address of Giles short greeting, to fully grasp Conwill, an associate professorand understand King's teach­
of history at Morehouse 
ings. 
College. 
• NEWS ANALYSIS 

Clinton seeks delay in sexual harassment trial 
By BRIDGET O'CONNOR tration, Kmiec helped quash Assistant News Editor subpoenas issued against President Reagan during the Lawyers for President Clinton Iran-Contra trial. "Presidents and Paula Jones argued before must be free from lawsuits gen­the Supreme Court over whether erated by people unhappy with or not Clinton could use his posi-his foreign or domestic policy tion as president to delay the decisions. But no president is civil suit pending against him. free to injure another, personal-While neither Clinton or his ly or economically, and not 
accuser were present in court answer the alleged injury," he M o n d a y , ------------continued. c I into n · s 'presidents are. not Kmiec point­
! a w y e r s ed out that this argued that above the law.' situation is dif­the case feren t from should be put Douglas Kmiec situations like on hold, as it those that would interfere with his presi-Reagan faced because these dential duties. In addition to charges deal with Clinton's per­postponing the trial until he sonal actions which took place leaves office, any questioning of before he was elected president. witnesses would be put on hold The executive privilege can and if Clinton gets his way. has been applied to situations in 
"Justice delayed is justice which the president faces allega­denied," said Jones' attorney tions concerning incidents which Gilbert Davis during an fall within the outer context of impromptu press conference on the president's official duties. the steps of the Supreme Court "Obviously," said Kmiec, "sexual building. In court, Davis argued harassment is not within the that delaying the trial would scope of those duties." cause problems because wit-With regard to the claim that nesses could die, the memories Clinton is too busy as president of witnesses could fade over to deal with the charges, Kmiec time, and documents could be said, "Other people are busy lost or destroyed. too." Kmiec added, "Whether 
Douglas Kmiec, professor of the charges are true or false, the constitutional law at Notre law requires that all citizens be Dame, commented, "Presidents held accountable." are not above the law, and it is Noting that presidents fmd the no violation of the separation of time to play golf, Justice Antonin powers for the president to be Scalia agreed with Kmiec's held to answer, like every other skepticism about Clinton's argu­citizen, for civil claims brought ment. "I don't find that terribly against him." A deputy attorney persuasive," he said. general in the Reagan adminis­
see CLINTON/ page 4 
After the introduction from and "God Bless America." Johnson, the Faith Christian Brian Lewis, a senior from Center Church Children's Sign Alumni Hall, then delivered a Choir opened with the song "0 dramatic interpretation of "A Se Baba," or "Thank You Man's Destiny," a moving piece Father," a Nigerian praise by entertainer Harry Belafonte song. The children, who dealing with the "measure of a ranged in age from five to 16, later performed "Hallelujah!" see VIGIL I page 4 
• SECURITY BEAT 
Tighter campus access protects pedestrians 
By HEATHER COCKS Associate News Editor 
Pedestrians, joggers, and rollerbladers should breathe a bit easier this semester when they use the campus roads. 
According to Rex Rakow, director of Notre Dame Security, efforts are being made to more rigidly control vehicular access to the Notre Dame campus. 
"We will be trying to direct traffic on the central campus more effec­tively," Rakow stated. "We need to slow those cars down." 
Plans include the addition of more stop signs and tougher enforcement of the 20 mph speed limit. 
"It's tough to keep it at 20, that is really slow," Rakow admitted, "but it's necessary for safety." 
He cited ice and snow, which translate into longer stopping dis­tances, as a hazard that further highlights the need for slow traffic. 
"This is a pedestrian campus. Students should be able to enjoy it without fearing for their safety from speeding cars," Rakow assert­ed. 




London program relocates 
By ALLISON KOENIG 
News Writer 
Notre Dame's London Centre program will undergo a reloca­tion of its classroom facility in the 1998-99 school year. 
Notre Dame's lease on the cur­rent Albemarle Street facility expires this year, and because the current building lacks expansion space, Notre Dame has purchased an 85-year lease on a new location. 
"We have the lease on Albemarle Street which expires on Christmas day, 1997," said Father Timothy Scully, vice president and senior associate provost of Notre Dame. 
"As an incoming provost, I had to get a building. I looked and looked, but I couldn't find any­thing attractive so I had our real estate agent write a letter [stat­ing our position and asking for assistance.] The British School of Osteopathy wrote back and said they would be interested [in offering a: facility]." 
The new building, located on Suffolk Street on the northwest corner of Trafalgar squ~re, is the same distance in relation to student housing as the current building, if not closer, stated Scully. "It's an amazing build­ing, and it is a 'listed building' which means that it is a histori­cal landmark," he said. 
The building, which borders on the theatre district, is flanked by the National Gallery and National Portrait Gallery. Buckingham Palace, Downing Street, and London's legal center are ten minute walks away. 
The Suffolk Street building was constructed in 1906 as the Oxford and Cambridge Men's Club and is owned by the Royal 

Special to The Observer 

Albemarle Street will no longer house Notre Dame's London Centre 
program, as the lease on the location expires this year. The new build­
ing, located in London's historic district, is on Suffolk Street. 
Family of England. facility, large common spaces, 
The increasing number of and a chapel. Notre Dame students wishing to Before establishing the class­study in London, and the goal to room, computer, recreational, expand the program's offerings and library areas· in the new were cited as two reasons to building, the University will change buildings. undertake a multi-million dollar 
The new location will offer renovation which will equip the more facilities including an expanded library, an athletic 
see LONDON I page 4 


page2 The Observer • INSIDE Thursday, January 16, 1997 
• INSIDE COLUMN • WORLD AT A GLANCE 
A holiday of 

arctic hell 
Well rested after the break? I was trans­
ported from my Laz-y Boy recliner to the 
Arctic cold of Colorado shortly after the new 
year. Christmas break had ended, and the 
family vacation had begun. 
Now, I was under the 
impression that family Nora Meany 
vacations died at the 
Saint Mary's onset of college. So did 
Accent Editor 
my brother-he's 23. 
With accumulating 
Christmas debts and sleep deprivation setting 
in, suddenly, "getting away with the folks" 
didn't seem so bad. On vacation I could eat 
and sleep as much as I want... And here's the 
kicker-it was all free! 
The joy began with our first dinner the 
night we got in. I stared at the menu, trying 
to calculate what the cheapest dish would be 
with tax and service. But then I saw the 
light. Two key words: Mom and Dad. 
I looked back down at the menu. Then I 
looked at the wine list. My brother and I con­
curred that the best wine would be a) expen­
sive b) old and c) unpronounceable. It's~ 
wonderful feeling when the bottle does not 
have a twist off cap and the words "serve 
very cold" in bright type on the label. 
This culinary joy began a week of the finest 
food that Colorado had to offer. Steak. 
Steak. More steak. I drank cappuccino, not 
just the proletariat coffee I was used to. I 
received lift tickets as well, complements of 
the family. 
Well, I should be more specific. 
Technically, this vacation did not have a 
monetary price. Everything was paid for. 
Nothing in this world is free, and John (my 
brother), and I paid for the trip with our free­
dom. For an entire week I was fon:ed into 
long family talks full of reminiscing, renting 
movies and playing competitive family games 
of Clue. Hugs were abundant. 
The phrase "You aren't going to wear that 
in public, Nora!" was familiar as well. I 
began to remember why I chose to go to 
school in a different state. All the cappuccino 
in the world didn't make it right when Mom 
and Dad insulted my choice of clothing or 
yelled at me for blowing the Clue marathon. 
This family bonding thing was getting old, 
and fast. 
By week's end, I was beginning to crave my 
life at home, or at school. There I had my 
own independence and freedom. Sure I was 
poor, but at least I wasn't accused of cheat­
ing at Clue all the time. 
Every call home made me more envious of 
my friends. Sure they had to get up early 
and work, but I had to get up early and get to 
the lifts by 8 a.m. in order to get optimum ski 
time. My friends were haunting the bars on 
the north side of Chicago while the only bar I 
saw was the one that kept me in the chair 
lifts. I was cold. I was tired. I was fat. 
(Thanks to days of three course meals and 
skier's breakfast). I wanted out! 
This week I spent a lot of time relaying the 
"horrors" of family fun to my friends at 
school. Some were amused. Some were 
sympathetic. Nearly everyone reminded me 
that I was adopted, in an attempt to comfort 
me. Only one person's comment still sticks in 
my head. A girl who I know from past class­
es was walking with me to lunch. After 
lamenting about my break, I asked about 
hers. 
"My parents separated after Thanksgiving. 
I tried not to be home during break. " 
For the first time in a long time I was 
speechless. And how was your break? 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
• Tomw's STAFF  
News Bridget O'Connor Dave F reddoso Sports Mike Day Viewpoint Ethan Hayward Accent  Production Maureen Hurley Mark DeBoy Lab Tech Katie Kroener Graphics Brian Blank  
Joey Crawford  

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday 

except during exam and vacacion periods. The Observer is-a member of the Associated Press. All reproduccion rights are reserved. 
Study: Generation X remains faithful to religion 
CHICAGO 


"Overall, we must conclude that,
Generation X
Generation X is standing by the 
popular rhetoric notwithstanding, the

In general, can people not be trusted?
church. 
prognosis for organized religion gen­Following the "lost generation" of Baby Baby 
erally is quite good," said David W. 

busters boomers Preboomers
baby boomers who abandoned orga­

Machacek, who presented the study nized religion in large numbers, baby 
on ".Generation X and Religion" at a busters -stereotypea as angry, 
recent meeting of the Society for the alienated individualists -were 
Scientific Study of Religion. expected to be even more likely to 
Machacek, a graduate student at the stay outside the fold of church, syna­
University of California, Santa gogue or mosque. 
Are church teachings important 
Barbara, reviewed the data on reli­However, more than a decade of 
itz making personal decisions? 
gion, moral and social attitudes gath­national poll results show that in 
L·rQ·~ 
ered from 1983 to 1994 in national general they are no less religious 
polls. The poll data is part of the than baby boomers, and in some 
General Social Surveys collected by






wivl0
';:;:~;· · ·. ; , ·:' .\:::\::!Mf) ~ '<+.i;&,;;. ·

respects faith is more important in 
the National Opinion Research Center their lives. 
at the University of Chicago. Since gi)nerally people tend to 
Is it important to you to attend 
church regularly? 


What he found was not a "post­become more religious as they age, 
Christian generation," or a generation and more people from Generation X 
trying to make sense of "life after can be expected to return to church 
37% 

I "-· 53%

I'(]'ffi·''''' 

God," as some popular essayists have as they start families, the findings 
described the first generation raised indicate many young people are n9t 
I -. ... I . . 
in a nation without school prayer or 
Source:The National Opinion AP/Amy Kranz 

abandoning the faith they grew up other civic accommodations to reli­
Research Center at the Universitywith. of Chicago gion. 
Clinton ratings hit high mark 
WASHINGTON 

Public approval of President 
.--...-..............---m Clinton's job performance hit a record high last week in a pre-inaugural poll that also found Congress with an improved image despite the over­whelming unpopularity of House Speaker Newt Gingrich. Clinton's 59 percent job approval rating in the new Pew Research Center survey eclipsed '-'-'"-''--_..._­the 56 percent score he registered just after taking oflice in January 1993. Thirty-one percent of those surveyed in the new poll disapproved of the way Clinton is handling his job as president, with the rest declining to offer an opinion. Democrats overwhelmingly embraced their re­elected president -86 percent approved of his job per­formance. Even three in 10 Republicans approved of Clinton's job performance. Still. 70 percent said the con­troversy over Democratic National Committee fund rais­ing in last year's elections was an important issue, and 63 percent said Congress should establish a special com­mittee to investigate the matter. Improved public stand­ing for politicians is not uncommon in the calmer period that follows elections, and, indeed, Clinton's better rat~ ings were rivaled by better numbers for the _Republican Congress. 
Boy charged with killing stepfather 
CHATHAM, Va. 

An 8-year-old boy was charged with beating his step­father to death, the Roanoke Times reported today. Bernard Rosser Jr., 55, was found dead in his home on Dec. 19 after he failed to show up for work as a Franklin County probation officer. Police said he died from a blow to the head. Authorities would say only that a juvenile was arrested Tuesday in Rosser's death. But the Times, citing two unidentified sources, reported that Rosser's stepson was charged. The boy's mother declined to comment after a closed hearing Tuesday, the paper said. Details about the beating were not released. Rosser, who lived in Gretna, 80 miles south­west of Richmond, was working as a probation and parole officer for the state Department of Corrections for about two years, his supervisor, Jeri Barnett, said. He was a juvenile probation and parole officer in New York City and Houston for nearly 20 years, but returned to his native county to get away from urban life, said a cousin, Lester Wainwright. 
Chicago millionaire on balloon quest 
CHICAGO 
A millionaire adventurer on a quest to become the first balloonist to circle the Earth nonstop changed course for North Africa on Wednesday after being denied permission to enter Russian airspace. Steve Fossett, a 52-year-old Chicago securities trader, was 600 miles southeast of Bermuda by the afternoon, his second day in the air after Monday's liftoff from St. Louis in his 150-foot Solo Spirit balloon. Russia's con­cerns included possible interference with civilian avia­tion and Fossett's inability to speak Russian, said Jennie Ritchie, a spokeswoman for Fossett's ground control team at Loyola University in Chicago. In 1995, two American balloonists were killed when the Belarus military shot them down as they entered the country's airspace without permission during an international race. Balloons can't be steered directly, but pilots can sometimes control their direction by rising or descend­ing to catch wind currents. Fossett had planned to fly across Poland, Belarus and Hussia. Instead, he adjust­ed his altitude from 18,000 feet to 22,000 feet to catch a current that would take him on a more southerly course across Algeria, Morocco and Libya. At the high­er altitude, the temperature outside dropped from 11 degrees to 30 below zero, but Fossett was in a heated capsule, Ms. Ritchie said. 
Judge removed from rape case 
STAMFORD, Conn. 
The judge presiding over a rape case against a high school athlete who lived as a fugitive for eight years removed himself from the case Wednesday after com­plaints that he favored the prosecution. The complaints raised by the defense included Superior Court Judge Martin Nigro's reference to defendant Alex Kelly's girl­friend as "Amelia Airhead." Nigro said he disagreed with many of the complaints, but added that judges should remove themselves if there is even the appearance of bias. Kelly, 29, was a high school wrestling star when he was arrested on the rape charges. Just before his trial was to begin in 1987, he fled overseas. Authorities said his wealthy parents enabled him to live as a ski bum until he surrendered in Switzerland in 1995. His first trial ended on Nov. 12 with his six-member jury unable to reach a verdict. Puccio also cited statements Nigro made when he sentenced Kelly for nine house burglaries in 1984. "You're a thief. a burglar ... and of no use to society, as far as rcan see," the judge said. 

• SOUTH BEND WEATHER • NATIONAL WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forcast 
The AccuWeather®forecast for noon, Thursday, Jan. 16. 

AccuWeather" forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures Lines separate high temperature zones tor the day. 
/ H L Thursd':lY c;:8 13 -5
·:·.::=·.:::· 

Friday 1 -4
~ 8 Saturd~y ~ 14 4 
I 
FRONTS: 
............... _.__._ .......-...,...

Sunday) ~ 23 14 
COLD WARM STATIONARY 
C 1997 AccuWeather, Inc.
,J 
Pressure 
{)
H L B ISS:! 1TIJ 0 ~ 8 ~ u

Monday 11S1 19 
HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY 
VIa A~ocla/ed Press
; '~o\\'-'" '··~.~A"'.r
(,/ 
\ 
Atlanta 48 40 Dallas 39 27 New Orleans 54 48 

,.../······ 
Baltimore 39 32 Denver 20 5 New York 42 31 Boston 45 32 Los Angeles 64 50 Philadelphia 44 32

4,~,~9-QQ ~ ~ u 
Chicago 22 6 Miami 79 70 PhO"~nix 59 43 

Showers T-storms Rain Flurries Si1oW Ice Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy 
Columbus 52 40 Minneapolis ·1 ·B St. Louis 13 10 

Via Associated Press Graph1csNe/ 
Thursday, January 16, 1997 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Accelerated nursing degree offered at SMC 
Special to The Observer 
College graduates can earn a bachelor of science degree with a major in nursing at Saint Mary's College though the Accelerated Program in Nursing. 
Any qualified female college graduate who holds a bac­calaureate degree in an area other than nursing is eligible to apply. 
The accelerated curriculum, which leads to a bachelor of science with a major in nurs­ing for students, is specialized for students who have already earned a baccalaureate or higher degree in another dis­cipline. 
All prerequisite science courses must be completed prior to beginning the nursing program. 
Applicants holding bac­calaureate degrees from Saint Mary's College or other insti­tutions are eligible. 
Graduates of the accelerat­ed program will be eligible to take the National Council Licensure Examination (NCLEX-RN) to become regis­tered nurses. 

Saint Mary's began its Accelerated Program in Nursing in 1993 in response to the needs of its alumnae and the local community. Currently, it is the only pro­
gram  of  its  kind  in  the  
Midwest region.  
In  addition  to  the  

Accelerated Program in nurs­ing, Saint Mary's has a strong undergraduate nursing pro­gram. Both are committed to innovative and progressive education in the field. 
The 13-month program begins May 27 and ends in July of 1998. Application materials must be submitted by Feb. 10. 
For information on the program, or to obtain an application, contact the Saint Mary's Admission Office at 284-4587. 

All for the love of learning ... 
The Observer!Brandon Candura 
Students brave long lines in LaFortune to purchase course packets from The Copy Shop. 


Please Recycle The Observer 
SUMMER LAW STUDY 
m 

Barcelona Dublin Florence London Oxford Paris Russia San Diego 
:t:

lJJ)Universily of &n Diego 
FOREIGN LAW PROGRAMS SCHOOL OF LAW 5998 Alcala Park San Diego, CA 92110-2492 
e·mail: cking@usdlaw.acusd.edu fax: 619/260-2230 URL: http:/1192.215.86.8 or http://www.acusd.edu/OnCampus 
Financing education ... 
ND grads low in default rates 
By DAVID FREDDOSO According to Russo, the study positions, and we do not have News Writer not only suggests that Notre to apologize for that," Russo Dame students use a great deal said. "O.ur students do well. 
Every year, millions of stu­of common sense in borrowing, They get good jobs, and they dents nationwide borrow bil­but also that they work hard are responsible about their lions of dollars to pay for their enough and are smart enough obligation." college education. Of those to finish school on schedule. Russo went on to mention who borrow, over one tenth "The likelihood of default that Notre Dame has tradition­will default on their 
ally had a very low loans. default rate on stu­
'We are able to com­
But of the more dent loans. Among than 4,000 of the mand from the lend-other things, this Notre Dame students guarantees that
ing community outstanding 
who borrow money students here are to finance educa­services for our borrowers, treated well when tions, nearly 99 per­they apply for
and for Notre Dame.' 
cent pay their loans loans, since banks back. The loan 
Joseph Russo and other financial 
--------------------------------------~­
default rate at Notre institutions can 
Dame, as measured by the U.S. grows dramatically if you drop consider a loan made to a 
Department of Education, is a out of school," he explained, Notre Dame student to be a 
mere 1.5 percent. "and in four years, 92 or 93 sure investment. 
"That's one of the lowest in percent of our students gradu­"Because of the fact that we 
the country," said Joseph ate. That's one of the best in are so strong in our perfor­
Russo, director of financial aid. the country." mance here, we are able to 
Russo, who oversees the flow­In addition, he noted, the command from the lending of over $30 million to students study suggests that a Notre community outstanding ser­each year, believed that the Dame education helps most vices for our borrowers, and low rate of default is a reflec­graduates to do well after for Notre Dame," he ·said. tion of the quality of Notre graduation. "Students who "Lenders want to be on our list Dame students. borrow get into successful of preferred lenders." 

THE UNIVERSITY LIBRARIES OF·NOTRE DAME 
Present 


BRITANNICA ONLINE 
(On trial until February 12) 
Finding information has never been so easy as when you use the Libraries' newest reference resource. The Britannica Online provides you with immediate access to thousands of articles, online graphics and other forms of multimedia through its intuitive search windows. The Britannica is available to faculty, students and staff through the Libraries' homepage. 
The URL is: http://www.nd.edu:80/-ndlibs 
E-mail your comments to: richter.8@nd.edu 
LEADERSHIP INTERN PROGRAM (Lip '97) African-American and ltispanic Students Info meeting Monday~ Jan 20 7:00p.m. CSC • 3 Academic Credits tCtl • lO weeks of Leadership-Service CENTER FOR SOCIAL • $2300 Tuition Scholarship CONCERNS  
GLACIER NATIONAL PARK ---MONTANA--­Come have the best summer ofyour life. St. Mary Lodge & Resort, Glacier Park's finest. Now hiring for the 1997 summer season. For an application, call (800) 368-3689 or e-mail name and address to glcjobs@magiclink.com. Don't pass up the opportunity ofa lifetime!  

-~ 
page4 

The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, January 16, 1997 
London 
continued from page 1 
facility with modern teaching 
technology. 
While it will come into posses­
sion of the University in July of 
this year, the new building will 
not be ready for use for another 
year. "We are bringing the 
building down to nothing then 
rebuilding it, but we are also 
restoring it to its original condi­
tion," said Scully. 
The new area has 27,000 
square feet of usable space, 
which is twice the size of the 
current facility. 
According to Scully, although ·the new building is larger, there will be no net effect on the cost of the program in part because the University is acquiring a donation for that purpose. "We are looking for an endowment to underwrite it," he explained, "and in fact the Albermarle rent per square foot was more because it was in the center of commercial London." 
All three London Centre Programs, offered by Notre Dame Law School, the MBA Program and the Colleges of Arts and Letters and Engineering have been conducted in the Albemarle Street building since 1981. 


Vigil 
continued from page 1 
man"-specilically, Martin Luther King Jr.. 
Following the presentation, Coro Primavera de Nuestra Senora, a choir composed of Notre Dame students and led by junior Veronica Chavez, performed two numbers including "Vida Nueva" or "New Life" a song chosen to honor the courage of King. 
The second dramatic reading of the night involved a powerful affirmation of women in "A Woman's Creed" read by junior Leticia Bajuyo, sophomore Cheryl Igiri, senior Denise Kirkowski, and junior Neobosh Shognosh. The four women ended their presentation with tho statement, "I believe in the woman, I believe in the man, I believe in the Creator, I believe in me." 
The final group to add to the festivities was the Voices of Faith Gospel Ensemble led by Marlon Yander. The Notre Dame choir performed twice over the course of the evening. Their first number, "Holy One," was highlighted with the voice of Saint Mary's junior Carla Rupert. The song, according to Yander, "embodies what Martin Luther King was all about. It [the song] is a testimony to God. Martin Luther King was a very spiritual man... he had to be to undergo all the strife that he went through." 
In his address, Conwill praised King as "the only true prophet that this country has seen in its 400 years, in tho biblical sense.'' 
Conwill, a Roman Catholic priest and director of the department of church voca­tions for the National Office for the Black 
Catholics in Washington, D.C., proceeded to 
give the audience a brief history of the trials 
of segregation and the life of Martin Luther 
King and then immediately related King's 
vision to the conflicts of today. 
"King's message and mission of non-vio­
lence is so needed today. I believe he would 
be raving against Clinton's welfare pro­
gram," Conwill stated with emphasis, "He 
would be against terrorism in all forms. lie 
would be calling us to respect the ecology 
and our environment.'' 
The professor of history provided many biblical examples of those who had been sent to carry out God's will, including Abraham, Moses, Samuel, and Mary. Conwill then incorporated King into that category and presented the civil rights leader as a servant of God called to preach peaee and non-violenee. 
"Martin knew that the idea of 'an eye for an eye and a tooth for a tooth' would result in an eyeless people and a toothless genera­tion," Conwill told the audience to a round of applause. 
As .the talk progressed, Conwill pointed out three principles of action which follow the teachings of Dr. King. The doctor eneouraged his audience to acknowledge the evil, both personal and collective, in our world, speak out and organize against that evil, and pray for guidance like the Reverend had done. 
Conwill ended his talk by praising God for the influence that the civil rights leader had not only on the people around him, but to those who had deeided to follow his dream as well. 
"His [King's] dreams shall become reality when we take on his propheey. I am so 


The Observer/Brandon Candura 
Father Giles Conwill, of Morehouse College, delivered the keynote address at last night's celebration. 
proud for Martin Luther King; his mission, and his ideas," Conwill conducted. 
The night ended with a speech by Johnson. "Here we arc Lord, we have no more excuses, for we have heard the call.'' The Voices of Faith Gospel Ensemble then performed the dosing song "Haise Your Hands," which received a great amount of audience support. 
In addition to the Martin Luther King Jr. Holiday Celebration Committee, the prayer service was sponsored by the African American Student Alliance, Amnesty International, Campus Ministry, the Center for Social Concerns, the Filipino Ameriean Student Organization, Student Affairs and Student Government. 

Clinton 
continued from page 1 
Specifically, Jones i:> seeking $700,000 in damages for the destruction of her reputation and the emotional distress resulting from a 1991 encounter in an Arkansas hotel room. Jones' lawyers argued that the longer the trial is delayed, the longer she must wait to restore her reputation. Jones has indi­cated that she would donate any monetary damages awarded to her to charity. 
If the Supreme Court should decide that the trial can not be postponed, it is expected that the justices would instruct that trial proceed in the normal course. That course would involve pre­trial testimony including inter­rogatory or written testimony and depositions or oral testimo-
FITNESS SCHEDULE SPRING, 1997 JOYCE CENTER CLASSES 

ny, both of which could becom­pleted without Clinton ever leav­ing the White House or attending trial. His testimony in the trial could be submitted in writing and the judge in the case would have wide discretion over the time frame of the requirements in order to allow Clinton to com­
pletehispresidentialduties. 
Kmiec expects that tremendous momentum in Congress to begin the impeachment process would build. "The allegations are so disgusting and so base that I cannot see how the president could survive the impeachment process," he said. 
"The bottom line is this: as a factual matter, I hope the allega­tions are untrue. As a legal mat­ter, the president has an obliga­tion to defend himself-now," said Kmiec. 
The Reuters NewMedia news service contributed to this article. 
1  4:05-5:05  STEP  Gym 1  
2  4:05-5:05  Hi Intensity  Gym2  
3  5:20-6:20  STEP  Gym 1  
4  5:20-6:20  Lo Impact  Gym2  
5  3:45-4:45  STEP  Gym 1  
6  3:45-4:45  Hi Intensity  Gym2  
7  5:30-6:30  STEP  Gym 1  
8  5:30-6:15  Flex & Tone  Gym2  
ROCKNE CLASSES  
9  6:30-7:15 am  STEP  301  
10 12:15-12:45  STEP  301  
11 4:05-5:05  STEP  301  
12 5:20-6:20  STEP  301  
13 8:45-9:30  Cardio Combo  301  
14 7:30-8:30 am  STEP  301  
IS 12:15-12:45  Flex & Tone  301  
16 3:45-4:45  AeroStep  301  
17 5:20-6:20  STEP  301  
18 5:15-6:00  Hi Intensity  301  
19 4:00-4:40  PowerSTEP  301  
20 4:50-5:20  All Abs  301  
21 5:30-6:15  Hi Intensity  301  
22 6:30-7:00  All Abs  301  
ROLFS CLASSES  
23 12:15-12:45  Aquacise  
24 6:45-7:45  Aquacise  


If found guilty of the charges, 11--------------------------------------tl 

M/W $25 M/W $15 M/W $25 M/W $20 Tffh $20 Tffh $20 T/Th $25 T/Th $20 
M/W/F $25 M/W/F $25 M/W/F $35 M/W $25 M/W $20 T/Th $25 Tffh $25 Tffh $25 Tffh $25 F $12 Su $12 Su $12 Su $12 Su $12 
M/W/F $20 Tffh $20 
KNOCKOUT WORKOUT 25 7:45-9:00pm & 12:45-2:00 Joyce Center W/Sa $15 
Sign-ups begin Thursday, January 16, 7:30am@ the RecSports office. Classes begin Monday, January 20. **Class minimum of 12 registrants. Have a great physically active semester! 



Spring Break Setninars 
March 9-15, 1997 Experiential/Service Learning 
center for s0 cia1 c 0 n cerns 
APPALACHIA SEMINAR 
Service Learning at one of 12 sites in the Appalachian region Information meeting: 
Wed, Jan. 22, 7:30-8:00 PM 


L' ARCHE COMMUNITY SEMINAR 
Live for a week in community with persons with disabilities Read the work of Jean Vanier Information: Stop by the Logan Center table at the 
Social Concerns Festival on 1/21/97 
MIGRANT EXPERIENCES SEMINAR 
Work in the fields with migrant workers Assist agencies that serve migrants Information meeting: Wed., Jan. 22, 7:00PM 
WASHINGTON SEMINAR 
Theme: Education in America 
Direct contact with political, agency, and Church leaders in Washington, D.C. Service and political awareness opportunities Information meeting: Wed., Jan. 22, 7:00PM All seminars offer one academic credit (various departments) 

Applications Available Now at the CSC Applications Due: Jan. 29, 1997 


-------~-----...._.------~~-------~ --------~------~-­
Thursday, January 16, 1997 The Observer • NATIONAL NEWS page 5 

Gingrich tape stirs controversy Clinton praises Mexico's 
By lARRY MARGASAK Associated Press Writer  made that promise. Eventually the tape wound up  reception for him. The next day, they went to  economic turnaround  
WASHINGTON The audio tape of House Speaker Newt Gingrich plotting strategy traveled in a sealed envelope from Florida to Washington, like part of an intelli­gence mis­sion. By the time it arrived at the Justice Department last Monday Gingrich night, 22 days after the surreptitious tap­ing of the telephone call between Gingrich and other Republicans, the operation's cover was blown. As a result, the tape is part of an ethics investigation caught up in bitter partisan fighting. The committee Democrat who received it has stepped aside from the Gingrich case. A Republican who was itching to get off the House ethics com­mittee bowed out too, to main­tain the panel's political bal­ance. The FBI has begun a criminal investigation. The phone call was heard on a scanner and taped in a car. The tape was delivered to a congresswoman's Florida office. In an envelope sealed with packing tape, it was mailed to the lawmaker's Washington office. There, it was handed back to the couple who made it. They carried it to the ethics  in the hands of the press, and The New York Times ran a transcript. The tape has become part of the political theater that has punctuated the final weeks of the ethics investigation. Outside counsel James M. Cole's report was to be finished today, but ethics panel Chairwoman Nancy Johnson, R­Conn., told reporters Wednesday: "It takes a while ... to print it. You would not expect to see it tomorrow." John and Alice Martin of Fort White, Fla., heard the conver­sation on the Radio Shack scan­ner in their car while on a Christmas shopping trip. Once they realized the conversation they were picking up was of Gingrich discussing the Republican response to his admitted ethics violations, they recorded it on a hand-held machine. They called Rep. Karen Thurman, D-Fla., and on Jan. 2 took the tape to her Gainesville office. There, the tape was placed in a sealed envelope, wrapped in packing tape and mailed to her Washington office. According to House Democratic Whip David Bonior, Gingrich's congressional neme­sis, Thurman asked members of Bonior's staff for advice. They recommended that her con­stituents forward the tape to appropriate law enforcement agencies or other officials, including the ethics committee.  her office and picked up the package. It was still sealed. The Martins had a cover let­ter to go with the tape. Addressed to McDermott, the letter said in part: "We live in the 5th Congressional District and attempted to give the tape to Congresswoman Karen Thurman. We were advised by her to turn the tape directly over to you. We also under­stand that we will be granted immunity." The tape was delivered to McDermott at the committee. Federal law prohibits inten­tional interception of calls from cellular telephones and also the dissemination of any such recording -if the person transmitting it knew the recording was illegal. The penalty for a first offense is a court injunction and an unspecified fine, provided there is no illegal purpose or direct or indirect commercial gain. A second offense after an injunc­tion carries a mandatory $500 civil fine. The penalties for first offense of intentional distribution of the contents of cellular phone calls are the same. The Martins' attorney, Larry Turner, said at a press confer­ence the couple could be liable for illegally taping the call. James F. Rogers, a Washington attorney specializ­ing in communications law, said Thurman could defend her role by saying she didn't dis­close the contents and was not  By MARTIN CRUTSINGER Associated Press Writer WASHINGTON President Clinton, announcing the final repayment of a $13.5 billion loan to Mexico, said the repayment proved the success of the controversial rescue effort his administration under­took in 1995. "Two years ago, helping our friend and neighbor in a time of need was quite controversial. Some said we should not get involved, that the money would never be repaid. They were wrong," Clinton said Wednesday at a White House ceremony where the debt was officially erased. However, critics were unswayed by Clinton's com­ments. They argued that Mexico earned the money to make the repayment by running huge trade surpluses with the United States that were costing American jobs. "This is money we are paying back to ourselves from workers who have lost their jobs all over the country when their plants closed and moved to Mexico," said Rep. Marcy Kaptur, D­Ohio. Kaptur led the House opposi­tion in 1994 to the No-rth American Free Trade Agreement that created a free trade area including Canada, the United States and Mexico. While the administration claimed at the time that the  agreement would result in new jobs in the United States by increasing exports to Mexico, the United States has actually seen its trade with Mexico go from a $1.7 billion surplus in 1993 to a record deficit of $16 billion in 1996. The administration has blamed the deficits on Mexico's economic crisis and not NAFTA, which they said helped cushion the blow to the Mexican econo­my and kept Mexican authori­ties on the path of economic reform. Mexican authorities said the success of its economic reform program had allowed it to make the fmal repayment of $3.5 bil­lion three years ahead of sched­ule. In Mexico City, Mexican President Ernesto Zedillo said, "Now our challenge is to con­solidate the recuperation." The total U.S. support was part of a $50 billion internation­al rescue package the adminis­tration assembled in early 1995 after a bungled devaluation of the peso threatened to send Mexico into default. While Mexico was able to meet its obligations to interna­tional investors, the Mexican economy was plunged into the worst recession since the 1930s, with total economic out­put falling by 6.9 percent. Clinton said that by acting quickly, the United States had made sure that Mexico's prob­lems did not spread to other countries in Latin America.  
committee, and gave it to the  The  Martins,  meanwhile,  asking anyone to do so.  
ranking Democrat. A letter  came to Washington for the  He said if McDermott had  
from the couple, accompanying  swearing-in  of  a  new  simply given the tape to the  
the sealed package, said they  Democratic House member,  committee, "a court would be  
understood  they  had  legal  Allen Boyd of Florida, and said  hard-pressed" to find that ille­ 
immunity. It didn't say who  they ran into Thurman at a  gal.  


ni)(SU[f(S@~~ j2)B~~@. 
FREE EXTRAS 
Extra Pizza Sauce • Parmesan Cheese Crust Garlic Butter Crust 
-JustAsk-






PUS SPECIAL 
LARGE DOUBLE TOPPER 
Not valid with any other oHer 

MUSIC FROM BELLE• BREEDERS • CRANBERRIES
• • NO DOUBT • • • • * $
• $ $ • • • • • GARBAGE • • • $ 
• • • ALANIS MORISSETTE • • • 
PLUS MANY MORE ....... • • 
DANCE WITH CHICAGO'S EXCALIBER'S HOTTEST DJ 
MIKEY C 
STARTING AT 8:00 P.M. SPINNING YOUR FAVORITE INDUSTRIAL DANCE BEFORE AND AFTER THE BAND TILL 3:00AM. 
HEARTLAND • 222 S. MICHIGAN ST.• DOWNTOWN SOUTH BEND 
-~-~· 

page 6 The Observer· NATIONAL NEWS Thursday, January 16, 1997 
Special interests fund "Blue Dogs" 
By CONNIE CASS chanee for special interests to cement relation­Associated Press Writer ships with elected officials." Corporate sponsors generally say the events WASHINGTON are planned to celebrate a historic event, not to 
President Clinton's inaugural planners win favor from lawmakers and regulators who shunned corporate money for the main event. will, for example, implement deregulation of the But special interests are quietly paying for all communications industry, make decisions on sorts of sideshows, from black tie balls to infor-crop insurance, and consider an overhaul of the mal parade-watching parties for lawmakers and Food and Drug Administration this year. administration officials. "Basically, it's a festive time in Washington 
R.J. Reynolds Tobacco, drug giant Bristol-and we're proud to be involved," said Myers Squibb, and a handful of telecom-Anthony Carter, a spokesman for Bristol­munications companies are financing a />"~ . ~--,, Myers Squibb.The festivities begin tribute to the conservative House . / '..u.::;..---,.........,, ~ Thursday and build to a crescendo Democrats who call themselves / : •• • ~-\ Monday night, after Clinton is "Blue Dogs." /• ·>:. • ., \ sworn in. 
Blue, dog-shaped cookies will be /2. • · Along the Pennsylvania Avenue on the buffet Monday for the piv-(~ parade route, corporations and otal bloc of lawmakers whose votes \ lobbying firms are planning par-could swing many issues in a ties Monday, extending invita-Congress narrowly controlled by tions to Congress members and Republicans. their aides to watch the procession 
Then there's the gala jokingly from the warmth of an ot'ftce win-called "The Farm Prom," honoring dow. members of the House and Senate agri-Through the weekend, there are par-culture committees, both Republican and ties for newly elected Congress members, Democrat, as well as Agriculture Department for states' congressional delegations and visiting officials. politicians, and for leaders like House Minority 
The event's 41 sponsors, chipping in about Leader Dick Gephardt, D-Mo. $5,000 each, include Archer Daniels Midland, Lawmakers who want to rub shoulders with Tyson Foods and other agriculture and food celebrities can choose from parties thrown by companies, as well as groups representing MTV, the American Film Institute or thr, farmers who raise corn, cotton or sugar, cattle, Recording Industry Association of America. pigs or turkeys. Black tie is optional. Still, the corporate presence this year is far 
"It's a way of emphasizing for the policy-mak-reduced from 1993, when businessr.s under­ers here the important role agriculture plays," wrote the official inaugural balls and other said Ron Phillips, spokesman for The Fertilizer events with millions of dollars worth of free Institute., which is organizing the recurring goods and services and $100,000 intnrest-free event this year. loans. 
Sen. Russell Feingold, D-Wis., receive~ 17 Dogged by questions about election fund-rais­invitations to corporate-sponsored events -ing, the Clinton team decided to limit contribu­brunches, receptions, parade viewings. lie plans tions to $100 this time, and to accept no in-kind to skip them all. · gifts or corporate loans. rt doesn't hurt that they 
"These events are very similar to the corpo-started with a $9 million surplus from the 1993 rate-sponsored receptions that are held during inaugural. national party conventions, which amount to a That leaves unofficial parties as the only outlet political Mardi Gras giving special interests the for corporate big spenders. opportunity to wine and dine lawmakers," Lobbyists acknowledge they usc inaugural Feingold said. parties to help nurture friendships with law­
"The inauguration should be a celebration of makers, even if the crowds and festive mood the democratic process," he said, "not another make it tough to talk shop. 
Career comes full circle for superintendent 
By THERESA HUMPHREY 
Associated Press Writer 
CIUSFIELD, Md. 
When H. Wayne Whittington claimed he was fired as school superintendent bocause he is black, th(J jury did more than just give him his good name back. It sug­gested the district put that name on a school. 
On Wednesday, the district did just that, renaming Crisfield Primary School the 
H. DeWaync Whittington Primary School. 
"It means more to the black community than anything else," said the 65-year-old educator, who also was awarded $920,000 in his race-discrimination lawsuit. 
Por many of the 350 people who crowded into the school gymnasium, it was a fitting tribute on the 68th birthday of the Rev. Martin Luther King Jr. 
But to Whittington and many school officials in Somerset County, on Maryland's rural Eastern Shore, hard feelings pre­vailed. 
No sign went up with Whittington's name. Instead, the school dis.trict flashed an overhead projector with the school's name change on a piece of stationery. 
"I will forgive them," Whittington said. " But I don't think I will ever forget what they did to fue." 
Whittington -who in four decades worked his way up 

from high school class vale­dictorian to teacher. principal and tinally superintendent ­was ousted in 1992 when the So!llerset County Board of ' Education voted 3·2 to let his contract expire without expla­
nation. 

One board member told a 
reporter he "did not want a 
nigger running the schools," 
according to Whittington's 
1992 lawsuit. He claimed 
another board member once 
asked a local artist to create a 
sign with KKK on it. 

After losing his job, 
Whittington was so ashamed 
he couldn't watch a video of a 
dinner held in his honor. He 
avoided people and cried at 
home.· 

He vividly recalls a visit to a 
middle school in his last days 
as superintendent. When he 
tried to correct the behavior 
of a black sixth grader, the 
child turned on Whittington. 

"He said 'You can't tell me 
what to do, you lost your 
job.'" 

Since then, two of the board 
members have been replaced 
by the first two blacks ever to 'serve on the board. 
There is still no love lost 
between Whittington and his 
former colleagues. He hasn't 
heard from them and he 
doesn't want to. 

His lawsuit polarized the 
county and Crisfield, a hamlet 
of 2,880 people sdme 20 miles 
from the Virginia line. The 
end of the lawsuit in June 
created, at best, an uneasy 
alliance. 


sign up by Friday, January 17 Badin Hall or 103 Hesburgh Library office of Campus Ministry 
RALLY DAY to begin Communities ND: Saturday, Jan. 18 I 11 am -4 pm I LaFortune Ballroom. 

0 

a) 
small Christian communities at Notre Dame, open to ALL undergraduates 

b) 
co-ed, student-led groups of 8-10 undergrads which meet every other week 

c) 
a chance to share prayer and conversation and to learn about your faith 

d) 
all of the above 



Did you guess d)? It's the best answer. No partial credit. A
.. N!y questions? Call Darrell Paulsen or Kate Barrett at 631-5242 C 0 m~ties n 
(tMPUS 

MINISTRY The Challenge of ,;Ad... lt Ch.-istianity 
Thursday, January 16, 1997 The Observer • INTERNATIONAL NEWS page 7 
• PERU .ISRAEL 


Rebels accept peace proposal 
By JOSEPH FRAZIER 
Associated Press Writer 
LIMA, Peru 

Leftist rebels agreed Wednesday to participate in talks to end Peru's month-old hostage crisis on the condition that everything -including freedom for their jailed comrades -be on the. table. 
The announcement, made in a two-way radio 
transmission from the seized Japanese ambas­sador's residence, appeared to be the first major break in the stand­off since the Tupac Amaru rebels released seven hostages on New Year's Day. 
Negotiations to free the 7 4 remaining hostages ambassador's residence pn Dec. 17, taking hostage more than 500 people attending a party. They released all but 74 men; Japan's ambas­sador, Peruvian officials, Japanese executives and Fujimori's younger brother remain captive. 
Government negotiator Domingo Palermo has met rebel leader Nestor Cerpa only once, on Dec. 31. Plans for a second meeting collapsed Sunday when the rebels demanded that Palermo bring a proposal to free the jailed rebels. 
'We think this demand 
should be addressed without any obstacles ... so that the situation can be solved as soon as possible.' 
Instead, Palermo pro­posed that a commission -including representa­tives of both sides, the Red Cross and the Roman Catholic Church -be set up to negotiate an end to the crisis. 
Details on when and 

A Tupac Amaru rebel leader where the negotiating panel will meet have yet 
had been stalled since then, with each side to be settled. hardening its position. Palermo had said the commission's agenda 
President Alberto Fujimori has refused the should include "all themes identified in previous rebels' demand that he free hundreds of jailed contacts." It wasn't clear whether that extended guerrillas. The government's initial response to to possible freedom for jailed guerrillas. Wednesday's rebel announcement didn't waver But in their radio transmission, the rebels from that position. insisted that everything, including the fate of 
Defense Minister Gen. Tomas Castillo said he their imprisoned comrades, be open for discus­welcomed a solution -within the bounds estab­sion. lished earlier by Fujimori. There was no imme­"We think this demand should be addressed diate word on whether the government would without any obstacles ... so that the situation can accept the rebels' condition for the talks. be solved as soon as possible," said a man who 
About 20 heavily armed rebels seized the identified himself as Cerpa. 
The Observer is accepting applications for: Bi-weekly Columnists 
If interested, please contact Ethan Hayward, Viewpoint Editor at 631-4541. 

All students, faculty and staffare welcome to apply. 

./ Used, rare and out-of-print books Initial cost of $2.00 Nationally -circulated ad Success rate of 50"/o Time required: 2 months 
ERASMUS BOOKS Open noon to six Tuesday through Sunday 1027 E. Wayne South Bend, IN 46617 (219) 232-8444 

Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. Holiday Celebration 1997 Reviving the Dream ·Deferred 
TONIGHT 

Thursday, January 16, 7:30 pm 
DEBATE 

A Failed Dream: Myth or Reality 





(ZMPUSMINISTRY 
Hebron accord sparks angry debate in Cabinet 
By NICOLAS TATRO 
Associated Press Writer 
JERUSALEM 
An angry debate erupted in the Israeli Cabinet today after Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu presented the accord he signed hours earlier with Yasser Arafat on troop pullbacks from Hebron and rural areas of the West Bank. 
Science Minister Benjamin Begin interrupted Netanyahu to challenge his sales pitch for the accord, an Israeli official said, describing the clash as "vocifer­ous" and held amid "tremen­dous tension." The official spoke on condition of anonymity. 
"The prime minister commit­ted himself to give away sec­tions of the Jewish homeland. He gets zero from Arafat," Begin said on Israel army radio before the meeting. 
Nine hours into the stormy meeting, Cabinet members abruptly broke off their talks, angered by an Israel TV report that the United States did not intend to let Israel decide for itself the extent of its troop withdrawal from the West Bank. The report cited an unidentified top U.S. official in Washington. 
The meeting resumed only after U.S. envoy Dennis Ross called the Cabinet members himself to assure them the TV report did not reflect U.S. policy, Israel radio said. 
Ending months of wrangling, Netanyahu and Arafat shook hands early today after reach­ing the agreement designed to jolt the peace process back to life. The accord is the first con­crete step in the process since Netanyahu's government took office in June, pledging to slow the handover of land to Palestinians. 
Israel radio said the Hebron redeployment would be com­pleted in about 48 hours, with the start coming as early as 

'"El\1MA' Is THE ClAss Acr OF 1996. IT'S PERFECT!" 
"G"'Vlleth Paltrow Is Ravishing!"
-Ridwnl CM!in, TIME 
"A Remarkable Achievement!" 
..fJ.nid ,\,<en, NEWSWEEK 
EwAN McGREGOR POLLY WALKER 
II 
'~ 
FRIDAY AND SATURDAY, JANUARY 17 AND 18 
7:30 and 9:45 p.m. 
Next Weekend: Notre Dame's 8th annual Student Film Festival 
http://www.nd.edu/-cothweb/wwwsnite.html 
Current status 

Friday. 
Netanyahu reportedly has an 11-7 majority in the Cabinet despite the rebellion in coalition ranks, mainly from hard-liners in his Likud Party. The main opposition in the Cabinet was to Israel's agreement to complete three further withdrawals after Hebron by mid-1998. 
The Palestinians expect to control more than 80 percent of the West Bank by the middle of next year. But David Bar-Illan, an adviser to Netanyahu, said there was enough flexibility in the agreement to allow Israel to keep most of the West Bank. 
"I assume we will be able to keep under the present agree­ment over 50 percent of the West Bank if we find it neces­sary," he said. 
Netanyahu's most ardent past supporters -the Jewish set­tlers of the West Bank and Gaza -were astounded by the agreement. However, the Tel Aviv stock market welcomed the news, rallying 1.5 percent. 
"Netanyahu wrote a book that said there should be no surren­der to terrorism, and now he signed an agreement with a ter­rorist group," said Noam Arnon, head of the 500 Jewish settlers who live among 130,000 Palestiriians in Hebron. 

page 8 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT Thursday, January 16, 1997 
., .. , .. 
Second Sunday in Ordinary Time 
Weekend· Presiders Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
DARE TO DREAM WITH US 
This weekend begins a celebration of the life and contributions of Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. It is a celebration marked not only by officialdom, and not only in places like Washington, D.C. or Atlanta. It is a life celebrated here, at Notre Dame, as well. We celebrate Dr. King's life because of the prophet that he was, even to the point of death, for justice, for equality and for peace. This weekend begins a series of events which are meant to awaken in us the spirit which Dr. King engendered in a nation and a people. The stakes are high and there is much to lose. The challenge is to take the risks that we must to constantly revive and renew that very spirit ofjustice and of equali­ty. 
I believe that this is an important moment for this community. It is a time and an opportunity for us to take stock, to examine our relationships and our attitudes, and to bring to prayer and action our hope for a better world. This celebration beckons us to consider our own prejudices, as individuals and as a community. It is time for us to challenge one another in those situations from which we may all too often, and all too quickly, shy away. It has never been easy to stand up against injustice or prejudice. It wasn't easy for Dr. King, and it won't be easy for us. But in his wake I am left with persistent questions which keep me for complacency: What am I doing to insure the just treatment of all people? Would I be willing to die for what I believe to be ultimately true? Am I really living the gospel that I profess? The matters are weighty ones, for all of us, 
There is little that I could say here that could add either to the volumes of praise and commentary which have been produced in response to Dr. King's life and writings, or to the contributions which he himself made to our country and world. My inclination, instead, is to use Dr. King's word's to speak to the temptation we may feel to step outside of the fray, and to stand clear of the battle for justice and for economic and racial equality: 
Ifa rnan hajJpens to be 36 years old, as I hajJpen to be, and sorne t,rreat truth stands before the door ofhis l~fe, sorne t,rreal ojJjJortunity to stand ujJ for that which is right and that which is just, and he refuses to stand ujJ because he wants to live a little longer and he is afraid his horne will get bombed, or he is afraid that he will lose his job, or he is afraid that he will get shot, ... he may go on and live until he:s 80, and the cessation of breath­ing in his life is merely the belated announcement ofan earlier death of the spirit. 
We die when we refuse to stand up for that which is right. We die when we 
refuse to take a stand for that which is true. So we are going to stand ujJ 
right here... letting the world /mow that we are determined to be free. 
This article is, in the end, an appeal for all of us here at Notre Dame to stand together for that which is right, to stand together for that which is true. Whatever one might think of him, Dr. King's con­tribution to this nation and the world are undeniable. He woke a world from complacency and indifference, and articulated a dream which has given hope to generations ofAmericans. That dream is a universal one, one which seeks love and justice for all people, regard­less ofrace or creed. It is a quest that this community must claim as its own. The Gospel which we here so proudly profess, demands it of us. Please, stand with us in reviving the dream. 
Jim Lies, C.S.C. 


0MPUS 
MINISTRY 

-------~---~--------~--------------------------~-----­





VIEWPOINT 
Thursday, January 16, 1996 page 9 
THE OBSERVER 
NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY'S OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1996-97 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Elizabeth Foran 
Managing Editors Patricia Carson Tom Roland 
News Editor ........................ Brad Prendergast Viewpoint Editor ................... Ethan Hayward Sports Editor .....................Timothy Sherman Accent Editor ........................... Joey Crawford 
Saint Mary's Ediror. ................ Carolin~ Blum Photo Editor .......................... Michael Ruma 

Business Manager Matt Casey 
Advertising Manager ............................ Ellen Ryan Ad Design Manager ............................... Jed Peters Production Manager ...................... Heather Cocks Systems Man:jger ....................... Michael Brouillet 
Controller.......................................... Tyler Weber 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by rhe srudems of the U niversiry of Nmre Dame du Lac and Sainr Mary's College. It does nor necessarily reflect the policies of the administra­uon of either instimtion. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned edi­torials represem the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, leuers and Inside Columns presem the views of the authors, and not necessarily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's com­munity and to all readers. The free expression of varying opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Editor-in-Chief Managing Editor/Viewpoint Sports News/Photo Accent/Saint Mary's Day Editor/Production General Information 
Observer Phone Lines 

63I-4542 Business Office 63I-53I3 63I-454I Adverrising 631-6900/8840 63I-4543 Systems/Marketing Dept. 63 I-8839 63I-5323 Office Manager 63I-7471 63I--4540 Fax 63I-6927 63 I-5303 Viewpoint E-Mail Viewpoint. I @nd.edu 631-7471 Ad E-Mail observer@darwin.cc.nd.edu 

.,WHEN PIGS FLY 
The manic-depressive game of long-distance love 
· Run off to Chicago one weekend and think nothing of it. Meet the person of your dreams. Find out that person lives far, far away. Lose two points. 
Brood over the long-distance relation­ship thing for a bit. Think of the things friends have done to keep their relation­ships going: Rani, who drove from South Bend to Houston, Texas in a record 14 

Bernadette Pampuch 
hours one Thanksgiving weekend doing 120 mph down the expressway for L-O­V-E; Carl, who flew to Italy to get dumped; or Martha, who used to FedEx peanut butter and marshmallow cream care -packages to her boyfriend every third Monday of the month until he dropped her for his next-door neighbor. Realize that you're "just not that type of person." Lose five paints for lack offore­sight. 
Receive a phone call when you least expect it. Spend forty minutes realizing that yes, yes, you are that type of per­son, this is the one, no doubt about it, you'd walk to Minnesota just to spend time together. See visions of cupids and arrows floating in your head. Discuss life, politics, religion, love. Hang up the phone and call him or her back. Repeat this process nightly until you get a phone bill the following month for $185 oc so. Slowly realize that you have become one-half of the dreaded Long­Distance Relationship. Shudder. Lose ten points and $185. 
Resort to e-mail. Think it normal to receive five messages a day. Get cranky when there's no immediate reply. Learn to be creative. Send electronic post­cards. Tape the e-mail flowers he sent you to your door. Be patient. Save 
money. Gain two points. 
Break down and use the phone. Use the $10 calling card you had stuffed in the back of your purse or wallet for emergencies. When that runs out, learn to call during the Magic Hours: midnight to two a.m. Spend every other night out in the hallway in your jammies with the_ phone glued to your ear. Realize that you used to mock people who did this. Realize the whole thing is ridiculous. Give up on the idea of seeing him or her. 
Lose five points for confusion. 
Repent. Spend thirty minutes crying in your best friend's room while they try to cheer you up. Lose two points for bla­tant displays ofemotional suffering. 
Get a phone call ten minutes later from him or her offering to pay your air­fare to Minnesota. Repent again. Thank God and the philosophy professor when your Friday classes are cancelled. Call travel agencies. Curse Delta for not hav­ing available seating. Curse Amtrak. Curse Greyhound. Beg rides. Realize that Minneapolis is only ten hours away if you take your own car. Resort to the Internet to map out a route. Use all your cunning to plot a travel map to Madison, Wisconsin, which is (Aha!) exactly between Minneapolis and South Bend. Plan to meet at Fargo's Pizza on Main, half a mile from the State capital build­ing and located conveniently downtown (according to your map). Naively think that this will go off without a hitch. Lose five points for stupidity. 
Take your car and a fistful of dollars for the toll road. Figure you'll tell your parents when you get back. Leave the answering machine on and hope for the best. Get stuck in Chicitgo rush-hour traffic for 48 minutes. Memorize the bill­boards between 47th street and the Wisconsin exit. Memorize the license plate of the car in front of you. Clean your glove compartment. Revise your travel time and do 80 down the highway when you finally get clear of the Windy City. Lose five points for endangering your life. 
Get lost in Madison. Learn all of the side streets by name. Pass the same cheese store six times. See the historic ghetto dis­trict at night. Stop at a drive-through liquor store to ask a Grateful Dead groupie for direc­tions to Fargo's Pizza. Park your car, wander the streets, and find the place where Fargo's (and your reason for living) are supposed to be. Find out that Fargo's has moved and that in its place, irony of all ironies, 
is a Papa John's pizza. Lose five points for poor prior planning. 
Talk to the Papa John's guy and find out that Fargo's is only two blocks away. Question your sanity again. Run out into the street and consider crying. Wonder if he or she will still be there now that you are an hour and a half late. Feel your heart melt when they yell your name in the dark. Embrace in the mid­dle of the street with the snow falling down. Kiss. Gain fifteen points for happy endings. 
Return home thinking that this will be the long-distance relationship that works. Press the flower he gave you in the pages of a book or hang the photos she brought you up in your room. Dance around with stars in your eyes for at least a week. Have friends ask you why you are smiling all the time. Giggle inex­plicably. Lose some of your more sarcas­tic tendencies. Plan a Thanksgiving or Easter together. Gain ten points. 
Return to the real world. Get a phone call from your parents asking why a parking ticket from a remote Wisconsin parking structure was mailed to your home address with your name on it. 
Lose ten points. 
Have your first fight. Become even more depressed because it's over the phone. Start considering your friends' advice. A dwarfish Ecuadorian neigh­bor's harping upon the old saying "Amor de lejos, amor de pendejos" sends you to the Huddle for Ben & Jerry's at mid­night. Reflect on the philosophical impli­cations of the term "distance." Eat more Chunky Monkey. Lose five points, gain three pounds. 


Make· up, maybe. Sigh a lot. Spend more money on phone calls. Slowly get your smile back. Get together with friends and make up for the Chunky Monkey via the Richard Simmons "Disco Sweat" method. Swear that these pla­tonic relationships are really the way to go. Unexpectedly get a really sweet let­ter in the mail, then a phone call, then a reminder about why you drove cross­country in the first place. J:inally realize that advice and trouble doesn't matter because you're probably falling in love and all of the stuff above doesn't really matter anymore. 
Game over. 
Bernadette Pampuch is a senior English Writing major at Saint Mary's College. Her colulim appears every other Thursday. 
GARRY TRUDEAU
• DOONESBURY 

• 0.UOTE OF THE DAY 

page 10 
Thursday, January 16, 1997 

' 

' 
' 




USICO 


ear1n ev1ew: 
and Pearl Jam. 

Bush's Sixteen Stone left audiences screaming for more, but their '96 release, Razorblade Suitcase left everyone in need of a knife. Metallica, Pearl Jam, and HEM continued their 
slide into commercialism with 
C
harles Dickens wrote "It was the best of times, it was the worst of times." This quote seems to epitomize the year of 1996 in music. 
Smashing Pumpkins enjoyed remarkable success, but the success came with a heavy price tag. Their touring keyboardist passed away due to a drug overdose, and their drummer Jimmy Chamberlin was ousted for the incident. Sublime's lead singer Bradley Nowell suf­fered a similar terminal fate with heroin while ironi­cally enjoying unprecedented commercial success. 
Unfortunately, it was the year of poor follow up albums and the year of the nightmarish Macarena fad. Among the disappointments this year were Bush, REM, increasingly bad albums. Despite these dark shadows looming over the music world there were some bright spots. The year was not all that bad. 
1996 marked an intriguing year in the world of music. Hock and Boll's perennial slacker Beck may be at risk of losing his reputation. Odelay was praised by critics around the country and was received with open arms on the market. Beck's psychedelic videos seemed to be on almost every hour of the day. He clearly worked hard to compile this eclectic album and showed rare signs of maturity. llis original sound makes it the best album of the year. 
Local li busted out of obscurity with .___________________________j 
their second album As Good As /Jead. The duo of Scott Lucas and Joe Daniels manages to make a lot of good noise despite the faet that there arc only two in the band. Lucas manages to play both guitar and bass by running bass lines through his amp.while Joe Daniels slugs away at his drums like a man possessed. They speak out against small town closed-minded attitudes, band-wagoners, and steroid freaks who thrash around violently in the rnosh pit. 
Original grunge rockers Smashing Pumpkins and Nirvana continue to flourish. Smashing Pumpkins' The Aeroplane Plies High leaves audiences wondering how can they keep releasing such great stuff. The box set includes the live singles from Mellon Collie and The Infinite Sadness as well as some bonus tracks. The five singles alone make this album good, but the rare covers (The Cure, Sonic Youth, Mel Torrne, The Cars) as well as the B-sides make it truly great. Unfortunately it is a limited edition set, so if you see it, buy it then while you ean get your hands on it. 
Nirvana's live album From the Muddy Banks of Wishkah ironically captures the late Kurt Cobain 's energy and vitality. It is through this album it becomes apparent what a great artist the world lost with Cobain's tragic death. 
1. Beck -Odelay 
2. Local H -As Good As Dead 
3. 
Smashing Pumpkins-The Aeroplane Flies High 

4. 
Nirvana -From the Muddy Banks oj Wishkah 


5. Sublime -Sublime 
6. 
Various Artists -Trainspotting ·Soundtrack 

7. 
Pulp -Different Class 

8. 
Wilco-Being There 


9. Weezer -Pinkerton 10. Ash-1977 
Sublime's self titled album, despite being one of their weaker efforts is still a great album while Brit Pop sen­sation, Pulp, managed to churn out another great alb~1m with Different Class. 
Wilco gave a strong effort with Being There and rumor has it may appear some time in February at Notre Dame. 
Hivers Cuomo and crew added another great album to their discography with Pinkerton. Like Beck they seemed to show a little more maturity with this album. "Tired of Sex" is a very memorable song as Weezcr searches for love rather than sex, proving that we (being the male population of the world) don't care solely about "TilE DEED." 
A trio of Ireland's youngsters known as Ash came together to form their second album I 977, appropri­ately named after the year in which the trio was born. Their album is full of energy and includes some Star Wars samples. Their anathematic "Girl From Mars" epitomizes the youthful brashness of the band. 
So what ean we expect from 1997? Will one hit won­ders continue to inundate the air waves? Will Blackwater's painful "No Diggity" continue to make lis­toners ill? Will Perry Farrell ever sober up enough to realize that Jane's Addiction was much better than Porno fo Pyros will ever be? Surely, it will be intcrest­ing year indeed. We will just have to wait and see. 
of the entire product. It was tough to come up with ten groups that had solid records. Trainspotting a highly acclaimed indepen­dent movie release spawned a soundtrack that includes lggy Pop on one of his better singles in recent years. The album has some weak spots, but they are few and far 

1. Refreshments-Fizzy, Fuzzy, Big and Buzzy 
2. 
Sublime -Sublime 

3. 
Beck -Odelay 


4. Soundgarden -Down on the Upside 
5. Alligator Records 25th Anniversary Album 
6. 
Wallflowers -Bringing Down the Horse 

7. 
B.B. King -How Blue Can Get, Classic Live Performances 


1964-1996 
8. Black 47-Green Suede Shoes 
9. Local H -As Good as Dead 
10.Various Artists-Trainspotting Soundtrack 

L______________________J 

heroin overdose in April it was their last. They did, however, leave a very jumpy, fun album of reggae-tint­ed rock behind. 
between. 

Local H brought the duo into the realm of workable combinations. The group's pounding rhythms and heavily distorted guitars create a unique sound that does not die throughout the album. Black 47 carne back with another album of tradi­tional Irish instruments mixed with old­fashioned rock-and-roll. This album, like each of their others, burst onto the scene and then burnt out almost as quickly. It was, however, a very complete effort. 
B.B. King released a collection of his best live tracks including some that were not previously released in the Unitnd States. The album shows the old bluesman in his element, in front of a responsive audience. It is also an almost exhaustive anthology of his work over the last thirty years. 
Jakob Dylan's band, Wallflowers, bene­fits greatly from his inherited song writing talent in creating a good, strong album. One of the top blues labels in the world, Alligator Records turned 25 this year. they released a two-disc set of tracks from most of their most famous artists. The album is a must have for anybody interested in the state of modern blues. 
Soundgarden continues to turn out quality songs with almost no effort. Beck, who seems to have grown up in the last couple of years, departed from the noise that was Mellow Gold to create a solid, 
The top release of 1996 was the Refreshments Fizzy, Fuzzy, Big and Buzzy. The songs are infectious. They combine humour with serious situations that make their songs interesting as well as fun to listen to. Their is not a bad song on this album. 
n an age of "buzz clips" being a one-hit wonder is melodic album with Odelay. Sublime brought out their not as shameful as it once was. Some bands seem to self-titled major-label release to great critical acclaim. put out albums without worrying about the strength Unfortunately, because of the lead singer's death from 
Thursday, January 16, 1997 
page 11 


umso 



shame considering the quality of the album. Brilliant in concert, Pulp have made head­lines in many places, and despite being around for years .this album represented a breakthrough due to unrestrained imagina­tion which played such an important role in its composition. Pulp have never been afraid to be them themselves and damn what others think, and when this attitude is combined with genuine talent a great album was the result. 
Nick Cave shares a similar attitude, and to release an album made up of entirely grue­some stories concerning various murders was perhaps not every publicist's dream -yet he did it and what emerged was a spectacu­lar and memorable collection both haunting and funny with some excellent guest vocal­ists. 
"Trainspotting was a great movie, and the album which accompanied it included Pulp, Lou Reed, Iggy Pop, Blur, Elastica, Sleeper, New Order and Underworld, whose techno anthem "Born Slippy" is a classic of its genre. Suede's third release was met with critical acclaim and good sales, welcome relief for the critics' favorite target. 
Hepublica appeared on the scene with a storming single of universal appeal and an album of similar pounding energy. Sleeper 
dies, and Orbital carried on in their role as leader of 
did their bit and improved greatly over their previous the techno armies. Finally REM released one of their 
work while the Cocteau Twins came out with what most difficult albums which did, however, contain 
seems like .their hundredth album, and one of their enough moments of brilliance to warrant its place in 
most esoteric to date. 

the top ten. It was a good year all around. 
Imperial Teen showed that intelligent pop never 



T
here's a place in the southwest where you can sprawl out on the ground and technically be in Utah, Colorado, Arizona, and New Mexico. Similarly, The Wrens lie perfectly between sev­era! genres and tastes, without having to dis­
member or stretch themselves to succeed. A 
bass player with a love for the Beatles, a lead 
guitarist who professes a love for prog rock, 
a rhythm guitarist with 70's rock 'n' roll spir­
it, and a drummer who covers it all make up 
the best pop-rock band in the United States 
that you've never heard. Each song is unde­
niably catchy with three harmonizing singers 
sharing the mic, but the music is anything 
but standard. Finger-twisting non-standard 
chords pop along like the Archers of Loaf 
playing with Blur. Hefreshingly original, 
The Wrens appeal to lovers of commercial­
rock, Brit-pop, Indie-rock, bar-rock, and 
punk-rock. Secaucus comes closer to per­
fection than any album in 1996. 
Beck, aided by the knob-wizardry of the Dust Brothers, blew minds with his patented folk-hop madness. Noise Addict and Weezer proved that no one else can better lodge a song in your memory. Chavez and Jawbox reinvented duel guitar work over deep, tight rhythms. The retro-fusion from the photo­genic Swedes, the Cardigans, and the head­bobbing cocktail metal of Girls Against Boys both proved their worth as "the next big thing." Other artists that kept a steady spot in my stereo over ninety-six with ace releas­
es were Super Furry Animals, John Spencer Blues 
Explosion, Unwound, DJ Shadow, Walt Mink, Jeremy 
Enigk, the Trainspotting Soundtrack, and Brainiac. 

1. 
The Wrens-Secaucus 

2. 
Beck -Odelay 


3. Weezer -Pinkerton 
4. The Cardigans-First Band on the Moon 
5. Jawbox -Jawbox 
6. Tortoise -Millions Now Living Will Never Die 
7. Jon Spencer Blues Explosion­
Now I Got Worry 
8. June of 44 -Tropics and Meridians 
9. 
Girls Against Boys-House of GVSB 

10. 
Noise Addict-Meet the Real You 


• 

1. Bush-Razorblade Suitcase 
2. BT -/rna 
3. 
Beck-Odelay 

4. 
Tricky -Pre-Millenium Tension 

5. 
Social Distortion -White Light, White Heat, White Trash 

6. 
Cake -Fashion Nugget 

7. 
Rasputina -Thanks for the Ether 


8. 
Geggy Tah -Sacred Cow 

9. 
Space -Spiders 


10. Mazzy Star-Amoung my Swan 
11. 
Prodigy -Firestarter 

12. 
Fiona Apple-Tidal 

13. 
Fountains of Wayne 


14. 
Moby -That•s when I reach for my revolver 

15. 
Tanya Donnelly-Sliding & Diving 

16. 
Nirvana-From the Muddy banks ofthe Wishka 


17. The Chemical Bros. 
18. 
Catherine -Hot Saki and Bedtime Stories 

19. 
The Cardigans-First band on the Moon 


20. Polara -Pantomime 
-page 12 The Observer • SPORTS Thursday, January 16, 1997 
• NFL 

Angry Siefert gives resignation 
By DENNIS GEORGATOS 
Associated Press Writer 
SANTA CLARA, Calif. 
In eight years as the San Francisco 49ers coach, George Seifert won two Super Bowls and built the highest winning percentage in NFL history. On Wednesday, in a startling move, he retired. 
He was succeeded by California coach Steve Mariucci, who was 6-6-at California this year. his only season as a head coach. 
The formal announcement was to come at a 5 p.m. PST news conference in San Francisco, but word of the change swept through the lock­er room, where players had come to work out. 
"It's true," said defensive tackle Dana Stubblefield, who watched as Seifert walked through the executive offices, saying good-bye to team per­sonnel and thanking them. 
The Santa Rosa Press Democrat initially reported the coaching change Wednesday. 
Green Bay quarterback Brett Favre, who worked with Mariucci when the Cal coach was a Packers assistant, con­firmed the hiring of the new coach. Favre said he spoke with the coach's wife, Gayle. 
"I think it shows that players like him and that's carried over in an organization that believes that he can relate to his play­ers," Favre said from Green Bay, Wis., where his team is preparing for the Super Bowl. "Plus, he's a good offensive­minded coach." 
Coaching changes have been rampant across the league. Seifert becomes the 1Oth coach to leave his team since the start of this season, meaning one-third of the teams have made changes. 
Seifert, 57 next week, won Super Bowls in 1989 and 1994. With a record of 108-35-0, Seifert is the franchise's all­time winningest coach !!-nd has a winning percentage of .755. He reached 100 wins faster than any NFL coach. 
"It's a big surprise, a shock," said cornerback Tyronne Drakeford. "I don't know if it was something planned or a spur of the moment type thing. 
"From what I understand, Seifert is always under pres­sure to win the Super Bowl. It keeps mounting each year he doesn't win it. That's part of the business. You take it as it comes." 
Certainly, Seifert's departure signals wide-ranging changes for the 49ers, whose season ended in a 35-14 playoff loss at Green Bay two weeks ago. 
Defensive coordinator Pete Carroll, a candidate for the St. Louis Rams job, was passed over and the move appears to seal the fate of offensive coor­dinator Marc Trestman, whose departure has been rumored after players grumbled about his play calls. 
Mariucci was schooled in the 49ers system while working for Green Bay coach Mike Holmgren, a former offensive coordinator for San Francisco. 
Mariucci, 40, has been coach­ing for 18 years. He was an assistant for four years with the Packers, getting much of the credit for turning Favre into a two-time NFL MVP. 
Under Mariucci, Favre be­came the youngest quarterback in NFL history to play in the Pro Bowl followihg his first year with the Packers in 1992. 
"There's no doubt the bulk of my success in the NFL has been due to Steve Mariucci," Favre once said. "I wouldn't be where I am today without his coach­ing." 
Stubblefield said the team ex­pected changes after the 49ers' lost to Green Bay and owner Eddie DeBartolo said as much in an address to the club. 
"Everybody knew that around the locker room," he said. "No matter if it was coaching staff or player-wise, personnel-wise, scouting-wise, something had to change. There was something in the mix that just wasn't right. 
"We players knew that. We knew that something was going to happen. We didn't know it was going to be George." 
"It's a cold day in January," said tackle Steve Wallace. ''I'm left speechless. I don't know the reason. l-Ie's a great coach, a class person. It's a sad day for a lot of 49ers fans." 
"They must feel that he has a great young mind to give him a position like that," Wallace said of Mariucci. "They must feel he has all the credentials. But he's going to be under a lot of pres­sure. He's going to be com­pared to Bill Walsh and George Seifert." 
Seifert, reached at home Tuesday evening, declined to discuss his plans. 
Mariucci had dinner with club president Carmen Policy on Sunday. Tom Holmoe, a for­mer 49ers defensive backs coach who is defensive coordi­nator at Cal, confirmed Mariucci had talked with 49ers officials about joining the team. 
"I know that Steve talked with the 49ers," llolmoe said. "He told me he talked to them. Who knows what's going to happen?" 


ment on a four-year, $3.2 million contract to be the Giants' third 
coach since Bill Parcellsr(;lsigned in 1991. _ .. _ _· .. , ~'~sel has been cop.s~4(;lred the !!rime can4idate to. r(;lplace 
Dan Jleeves shiM the jol} opened wjth Reeves' firing Dec.· 23. 
Michigan State coach Nick Saban challenged for-the job; but 
who conducted the search for.a coach~ did not want to 
salary demands d the two "sides reportedly broke off 
weekerid;,,,;, 'i _ _ _ ++iii:! ---?''"" 
I left here four · rs ago, there was something inside of me that 1 had a verY good feeling about this organization, there was a lot of work that I felt was left to be done/' Passel ~il?x "' . ,j,,, ___ ·· _,. <ii;Jw .¥ 
·· f'lhttd a feeling that I w __· d to coine back here/' 
Fa.Ssel never has held a head coaching job in the NFL. Tpe for­mer quarterback has made his mark in football working with and developing quarterbacks, something that might have influ­l');ge~~ the Giants .since Bro~ has yet to become a quality r-JFL quarterback after three ~easons as a starter. -···-•···· .. ,..:: ·· 
Passel worked with Brown in his first two seasons in the ..,q,,..u,.,, and the two seemed to get along well He immediately the starting quarterback going into ..yamp. doing itto .head off. a q!lart~rback,Qontroversey," he 
my getermination, right now Dave Brown is the one closest to being ready to play. He has more experience in the game. I don't see any ... technical or physicalflaws." 
S:r;own said he was excited about thehiring. ·· 
,;•;,lf Jim wants roe tomorrow, I'll be there tomorrow,'' Brown said iri a telephone interview from his home in Florida. ''I'm cer­tainly going to be very close to Jim as far as what he wants me to do. I'll start working out in February, but if he wants me 
I'll be there soortet:'JP . ,,: _ . . said there would he "flrm direction orr''what's going to happen" with the team under his direction. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. m 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. ro 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center.
Classifieds Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
I am freezing without it! Industry. For details, call 1-206-on Sunday, please call Kerry at 971-3550 ext.C55!)45 288-1542-I'm freezing without it! 4 Days Until Jen 0' Connor's 1988 Mercury Tracer, 5-spd. birthday!!! The Big 21 .... 
$1 , 150. Good dependable trans. Freddy-ALASKA EMPLOYMENT 259-7872. Thanks a lot for being consider­Kelly and Corrine--the London CANCUN-PADRE-MAZA TLAN 
-~--N_O_T_I_C_E_s__~l· _'~--------~WANTED 

Fishing Industry. Many earn up to ate with your sickness. I'll get you babes SPRING BREAK'S HOTIEST! 
Female roommate(s) wanted: $4,000+/mo. during peak season. back! 1-800-328-7513 Add -Bed -Queensize orthope­
Jan-Apr31/97. Close to UNO Benefits often include M.D. Rome quote of the day: FREE FOOD, DRINK & PARTY dic premium mattress set. Never
campus. No cats or smoking. Call Transportation "And where's the luck??" SPECIAL!/! used still in package -cost 550
631-6531 (9am-6pm). and/or Room & Board. For Up to $200 Discount Coupons on details: sacrafice 175. (219) 674-2352 MO, Jana, Lisa-I'll get you back. our Website (206)971-3510 ext. A55849 elsie's promise Don't go to sleep--the water will www.studentadvtrav.com 
I need some responsible early­Thursday, Jan. 16 come. BO risers to deliver newspapers. Earn a at
4 Bedrm. furnished house, sec. bonus for the first week. Call Mike system, wash/dry, beach v-ball, Club 23 Dave and Tom-read anything
FOR RENT 
Spring Break Bahamas Party x1186 prime location, 109 N. St. Peter good on your walls lately? 
Cruise! 6 Days $279! Includes All 233-9947 Meals, Parites, & Taxes! Great EE grad. student seeks room­What about this cosmic crap? So Beaches & Nightlife! Leaves From FILEMAKER PRO database mate. you think that your other decisions 
Ft. Lauderdale! 1-800-678-6386 

designer needed for projects this Private room, $170/mo+electric. POST-NEW YEAR'S EVE are being carried out in another uni­
• semester-Call1-5610 631-7932(day),272-1 837( evn) PERSONAL PARTY verse? If you wonder and question
springbreaktravel.com Friday, Jan.17 everything then you'll never be PREGNANT? at Jazzman's featuring happy or satisfied with anything. Florida Spring Break! Panama 
NATIONAL PARK EMPLOY­Homes for Rent for 97-98 Consider the loving option of elsie's promise You'll always wonder if you can't City! Room With Kitchen Near Bars MENT-ADT Security 232-2595 Adoption. Caring, devoted couple find something better. Do you think $119! Daytona-Best Location $139! wish to share our love, laughs, and
National Parks hire forestry work­you can? Florida's New Hotspot -Cocoa ers, park rangers, firefighters, life­lives with an infant. Call for profile SECOND ANNUAL Beach Hilton $169! springbreaktrav­
guards, + volunteer and govern­3 Bedroom $425+dep and more info: Andrea and Lee: 1-CLASS OF '97 SKI TRIP Come se dice Nutrageous? el.com ment positions. Excellent benefits + Available Now 602 1/2 StLouis 800-213-3960 $45/ticket includes transpo, 1-800-678-6386 
bonus potential. Across from Rocco's 232-2595 rentals, lift tickets, and hotel. And yes, I am getting fat. Call: 1-206-971-3620 ext. Jan 25-26 @ Cascade Min. and N55841 Spring Break Bahamas Party hotel in Madison, WI With neighbors like you, who #1 Mary Kay Cosmetics. On 2 bdrms, near campus. Cruise! 6 Days $279! Includes All Get your ticket @ LaF info desk needs enemas? campus, convenient. Call Use of all utilities. 275/mo. Safe. Meals, Parties & Taxes! Great ..SPOTS ARE LIMITED!!"• Margrette 284-5261 EASTERN EUROPE EMPLOY­Paul 232-2794 Beaches & Nightlife! Leaves From Amy and Sue, MENT -Travel Eastern Europe by Ft. Lauderdale! 1-800-678-6386 Hi Cwaig. You guys are the ... well, you teaching basic conversational know ..... 
springbreaktravel.com Need books? Try the LaSalle 
English in Prague, Budapest, or Furnished Student Apt. Hey you, 
Krakow. Inexpensive Room & 6 blocks I don't care if you don't like the
Bookstore for the best in theology To the grad student who visited 
Board + other potential benefits. from campus, affordable, clean personals. And now you have no our apartment: 
come. 234-0003. Find out how to succeed in this 1-bedroom-$265 City! Room With Kitchen Near Bars excuse because your parents don't We really don't have guys stay field. Call: (206)971-3680 ext. Heat and water Included $119! Daytona-Best Location $1391 even get a subscription anymore, over EVERY night, and we aren't K55844 755 South Bend Ave. Florida's New Hotspot-Cocoa so I don't want to hear any com­always hung over, either. And the 
(corner of St. Peter & S.B. Ave.) Beach Hilton $1691 springbreaktrav­plaints. And I whine? house is usually clean. And we real­
and philosophy. Special orders wel­Florida Spring Breakl Panama 
ILOST & FOUND I 

deposit, references el.com ly need a roommate... CRUISE SHIP EMPLOYMENT­1-800-582-9320 And she took off my shoes as a
1-800-678-6386 If you picked up my black wool Travel the world (Hawaii, Mexico, peace offering. And then she told The lease on my soul expires Caribbean) & earn an excellent
coat at the Boat Club on Sunday, If you accidently picked up my me my feet smell. Of course my at the latest on February 28... Please call Kerry at 288-1542, income in the Cruise & Land-Tour FbRSALE black wool coat at the Boat Club feet smell, they're my feet. then I can drink like its my job! 

ADVERTISEMENT 
J 









VOLUME 2, NUMBER 4 1997 
My name is Colleen Henshaw, and I'm NIKE's University of Notre Dame student rep. It's my job to make cool things happen on campus, including this SportsPage, so if you want to see something that's not here, let me know. Use my e-mail address: colleen.henshaw@nike.com . .. If you want to talk to NIKE HO directly, use: sports.page@nike.com. 


0 ~ 0 
14 15 
16 
RUNNING GROUP WOMEN'S MEN'S AND WOMEN'S MEN'S SWIMMINGN MEN'S 

LEAVES FROM MAIN BLDG. 

SWIMMINGN AT CLEVELAND STATE
BASKETBALL/V 

HOCKEYN
EVERY TUESDAY VS. BOWLING GREEN CLEVELAND, OHIOAT SYRACUSE VS. ALASKA-FAIRBANKS

4:30PM 

AT ROLFS AQUATIC CENTER 3:00 PM
SYRACUSE, NEW YORK 

AT JACC 7:30PM 
600 PM W/SWIMMINGN 7:00PM MEN'S VS. ILLINOIS AND INDIANA 
WOMEN'S
.."' 
HOCKEYN AT ILLINOIS 
TRACKN
" E 
VS. ALASKA-FAIRBANKS 2:00 PM AT MICHIGAN INVITATIONAL 
AT JACC W/ BASKETBALL/V 
ANN ARBOR, MICHIGAN
.."' 
7:00PM VS. PITTSBURGH c ~ AT JACC 
.. 
-
0·~~~~~~~~~~~~~~--~--~------~------~------J-----~~------J-----~~----~~--~~1:0~0~P~M~--~~------------~
II 2~ 21 22 23 24 25
19!!!'.! 

-" 
WOMEN'S MEN'S WOMEN'S WOMEN'S SWIMMINGN 
WOMEN'S

.D 
BASKETBALL/V HOCKEYN BASKETBALL/V TRACKN 
VS. RUTGERS VS. ST. CLOUD STATE VS. GEORGETOWN VS. INDIANA II 
VS. MINNESOTA

u 
AT JACC AT JACC AT JACC AT LOFTUS
AT ROLFS AQUATIC CENTER 

u 
1:00PM 

7 00 PM 7 00 PM 1:00PM SPORTS CENTER 
MEN'S 

MEN'S MEN'S TENNISN 
TENNISN HOCKEYN
..>­
AT OHIO STATE 

AT WISCONSIN VS. ST. CLOUD STATE
.. 
COLUMBUS, OHIO 

2:30PM AT JACC 1:00PM 
.. 
7:00PM 

> "' 
II 
> 
28 29 30 31
27
26 

MEN'S WOMEN'S WOMEN'S MEN'S SWIMMINGN 
AT BUFFALO, 6:00 PM
HOCKEYN BASKETBALL/V TENNISN
c"' 
0 
VS. MICI-NGAN STATE AT MIAMI. VS. ILLINOIS WOMEN'S SWIMMINGN 
.. AT JACC 7:00PM.."' .. 
u 
..
.. 
0 
u 
II 
0 
u 
s 
Don't be afraid of the cold! Get out 
I of hibernation and work off those extra 
D 
holiday pounds! I'm going to be around 

E 
more in this new year, so keep an eye 

L 
out for me . .. wherever you may be!

I 
January is time to kick-start your exer-

N E cise routine and start shaping up for 
s 
spring break. Some local options : 

Scale the climbing wall at the Rock; 
cross-country ski on the golf course (when there's snow, of course!); hike 
or cross-country ski 

at the Indiana Dunes; ice skate at the JACC. 


VS. S. ILLINOIS, 4:00 PM
7:00PM 4:00PM 
MEN'S HOCKEYN 
AT LAKE SUPERIOR, 7:00 PM 
WOMEN'S TRACKN 
MEYO INVITATIONAL LOFTUS SPORTS CENTER 
MEN'S VOLLEYBALUC 
AT EASTERN MICHIGAN UNIV. PSILANTI, MICHIGAN, 7:00 PM 


D. 0 I N G IT . .. 
Rick Duda started competing in triathlons six years ago. 

Honors, and was Junior National Champion in '94. As a member of Team USA for the past two years, he competed in two world championships: Cancun in '95 and Cleveland in '96. He also 
Since then, he has built quite a name for himself. From 1993 to 1996, Duda earned All-American Triathlete 
competed in four national championships. Duda turned in his best performance to date at the 
U.S. National Amateur Championship this year in Orange County, where he placed sixth. As a member of the U.S. National Team, Duda spent the past two summers train­ing in Colorado Springs. His dream is to compete in the 2000 Olympics, where the triathlon will be featured for 
the first time. Duda is a junior who is enrolled in the College of Business. If you're interested in learning more about his training, or if you'd just like to join him for a run, Duda's running group leaves from the main building every Tuesday at 4:30p.m. Beat him, and make a name for yourself, too. 
CAMPUS CORRESPONDENT: TIMOTHY 5. MCCONN, JUNIOR 
Perhaps there's a pair of worn-out athletic shoes in your closet that deserves an honorable retirement. The duct tape-encrusted high tops you wore the first time you stuck big brother's jumper back in his face, the running shoes that carried you over the river and through the woods for months on end without a whimper-those puppies deserve more than the usual Dumpster burial. 
NIKE's Reuse-a-Shoe campaign gives you that chance. Each year, NIKE collects more than a million pairs of shoes at retail outlets, commu_nity centers-and college campuses-across the country. The shoes then are ground into materials that can be used to construct running tracks, 
I 


-, I 
I 
I I 
I 
I 
I 
basketball and tennis courts. The program keeps tons of matter out of our nation's landfills. It also provides a fitting way to pay homage. 
Watch this space for details about where to find Reuse-a-Shoe collection canisters around campus this spring. 
THE GOAL OF THIS SPORTSPAGE IS TO INFORM STUDENTS ABOUT SPORTS ON CAMPUS. NIKE DOES NOT SPONSOR ANY VARSITY INTRAMURAL OR CLUB SPORTS ON THIS CAMPUS AND THIS PAGE DOES NOT IN ANY WAY IMPLY SUCH SPONSORSHIP. 
page 14 The Observer • SPORTS Thursday, January 16, 1997 
• SuPER BowL 

Packers utilize balanced attack 
England Pa1triob>nihto Packers.;He do,esn:tll be part Staubach priz~.tw ' )-' 

A.. .
•\Jt'$ 
teaiD)'ou..···· cessful or hot/1· l>(liict ~Jle(l~>oe, "On an having the coacn~wg 
ful.'' 
Bill staff and pl!J-yn:J,akers ,such ~$ . ,. . . Jefferson and Ben Coates on . · But Bledsoe, despi~e a ···.' ,so 
>, 
;, ·.. 
· 
Championship gan1e agaipst, Jac~so.nvQJe, es $orne credit, too. No less an authority than Parcells says .·· "You've got to judge a player by where his team is," Parcells said. "Did,we win thedivisioriJitle?,Yes. D~5! we win the con~ 
ference championship? Yes. ,,,,,, .,.,.. < · "Drew's starting to get a few pelts. You know my old saying: 'You judge a trapper by ,1low many furs he has: He's got (!, cou­ple of furs now. He doesn't haye the biggest fur, but he's got a couple." · · To get the biggest fur,,Bled$oe needs to use all lds weapons. That means re-establishing a deep passing game that virtually disappeared against the Jaguars. It means establishing Martix1and th~ runnipg game and, s,tick· ing with it to keep the ball away from Brett Favre. It means keeping that suddenly stingy Patriots defense off the field as much as possible. • . . /i:;;· It means handling a challenge many star quar.terbacks have conquered. And some not-so-great QBs have managed to handle, as well. . ... . . "I appreciate where [ am." Bledsoe said after last Sunday's win. 'Tm only 2.4, but I know you can't count on this far all the time." · ·?•+;;; Bledsoe could site Dan Marino, who was the youngest quarter­back in a Super Bowl at tl.ge 23 in the 1985~!~e. Marin?,lost; he and the Miami Dolphins haven't been backAVI> . ., Bledsoe ruso knows that Jim Kelly and John Elway had seven shots, bet~~en them, at t}1etitle. They're 0-.7~•.···· ...·. ··.···• ..... 

So winnmg in his rtrst · Super,,Bowl is .of utmo~t irnPortanc~ to Bledsoe, who doesn't want to hear about exceedmg expectations at ayouthful age, orbeingpa ..•. ··.··· ...••.•......••.. ·........••..... 
"It's something that, after g with some ofthe older quar­terbacks around the league, this time is very important for me," he said. "You loo~ at()Wl:d an9 .se~ guY~ .like ~~rin(); E}way and (Warren) Moon, guys that have done so muc]l for so long, Yet 
none. of them have a Super Bowlring. ·. . .. ..• ..· ..··•· 
"So thet;e is a teal••sense of :urgell~~.,Qn rp.~ p~ and Jlb the team's part to try and take full advantage of the opportunity we have now." 

The Best in Reggae Music 

Eriday January 11 
~~ 1> Post New Yearts Eve PartY 

with the 
Elsiets Promise Band 
Complete with party favors, balloon drop, midnight countdown and toast. Relive New Year's Eve with your classmates this Friday. Also a Baby New Year and Father 'lime Contest. Prizes Awarded to best outfits. 
MUST BE 21 AND OVER 

By ARNIE STAPLETON 
Associated Press Writer 
GREEN BAY, Wis. 

The Green Bay· Packers reached the Super Bowl by adding a deadly running attack to their offensive arsenal. 
They did it out of necessity, with five of their last six games, including playoffs, at frigid Lambeau Field. 
Over that span, they averaged 151 rushing yards, an almost unheard-of total for a team that lives by the pass. 
But will the running game· be a luxury at New Orleans when the Packers take on the New England Patriots in the Super Bowl on Jan. 26? 
Split end Antonio Freeman said Wednesday that he antici­pates playing a bigger role in Green Bay's offense in the cli­mate-controlled Superdome. 
"Hopefully, now that we're back indoors, on a sure-footed surface, we can get back to re­ally playing Packer offense," he said. 
Which means two-time MVP Brett Favre airing it out. 
He hasn't had to do too much of that over the last month and a half. 
The Packers played at Lambeau three times in December and in the playoffs faced San Francisco in a driv­ing rainstorm that reduced the field to a mud pit. Last Sunday, Green Bay beat Carolina in mi­nus-17 wind chill on Sunday. 
Mike Holmgren said he's not sure if he'll use Edgar Bennett, Dorsey Levens and William Henderson less in Louisiana. 
"That's a good question," the Packers coach said Wednesday. "I think in both the 49ers game and the Carolina game, the conditions for throwing the ball were poor. And so, yes, you had to run the ball more. And I'm not sure that we're going to run the ball as much, because we don't have to worry about that stuff." 
Yet, in his next breath, Holmgren shows how loathe he is to cut back on the running game that plowed over oppo­nents, made his West Coast of­fense more effective than ever and carried the Packers to the NFC title. 
"We have had some success running the ball. So, if we can keep that up, obviously we're a better offensive team, if we can have balance like that," Holmgren said. 
Favre threw just 15 passes against the 49ers, completing 11 for 79 yards. Against the Panthers, he was 19-of-29 for 292 yards, but it was all predi­cated on the run, as halfbacks Levens and Bennett jump­started the team following the bruising blocks of Henderson and tight end Mark Chmura. 
"Our running game was butchered early on. I've always said we're not a real running team," Favre said. "But when the conditions have gotten bad, we've turned to running the ball more, and now we're run­ning the ball quite well. We're just going with it. 
"It makes my job a lot eas­ier," Favre added. "I wasn't really worried in that game Sunday, even when we were behind, because we were run­ning the ball so well. I knew something would open up and it did. When you've got Edgar and Dorsey, that's the best combi­nation in the league." 
On Sunday, L1wens rushed 10 times for 88 yards and caught five passes for 117. Bennett rushed a season-high 25 times for 99 yards. 
General manager Hon Wolf said last week that "our team is structured for the weather" and that he seeks "players that can run around and play in mud and slop." 
Bennett is his prime catch. The fifth-year running back from Florida State is one of the best cold-weather backs in foot­ball, a designation of which Bennett isn't exactly fond. 
''I'm not a cold-weather back," he insisted. ''I'm good in cold weather because they give it to me a lot in cold weather, If they give me the ball to me in warm weather, I'm still a good running back." 
"I think that statement's a lit­tle overrated, the fact we built our team for the elements," Holmgren said. "The area where it shows the most is with Edgar Bennett, in my opinion, because he's such a good run­ner in bad conditions. But he's a good player on turf as well; he's just really good in that other stuff." 
The fact is few Packers can stand the cold. 
"I don't think our receivers like sloppy track. I know that Brett doesn't like the ele­ments," Holmgren said. "Our defense, since our team speed is good on defense, I don't think the ehiments help us there." · 
Favre, for one, is looking for­ward to playing inside. 
"Don't have to wear sleeves, all that stuff. That's going to be nice, playing in a controlled cli­mate with no wind," he said, smiling. 
"I probably won't even know what to do. Hopefully, I won't have a horrible game. I'm used to these conditions now." 
If you see sports happening, call The Observer at 
1-4543 


Information Meeting 
Jan. 20th (Mon.. ), 6:30-7:00 PM 
at the Center for Social Concerns 
Mrican American & Hispanic 
Leadership Intern Program (LIP) Summer of 1997 
$2200.00 for 10 week program Three elective Theology credits 
HA AA St. Procopius-Cgo St. Agatha-ego St. Ben's-Detroit St. V. de Paul-San Diego (South Bend) 
---~~-----~---~~-----------~---~-----~----~ 
------.--------~~..~--------~----~------~-­
Thursday, January 16, 1997 The Observer· SPORTS 
• COllEGE BASKETBAll 
-


Louisville, Wake Forest roll on 
Associated Press  points, while Galen Robinson  and turned the ball over to  
LOUISVILLE, Ky.  and Kenya Capers each had 14 and McBride had 13 for  Wake Forest for its final surge -that of course would include  
Freshman Nate Johnson was 11-of-13 from the field and scored a season-high 24 points to lead No. 10 Louisville to a  Houston, which shot 45 percent (29-of-65). Houston turned the ball over 23 times, which Louisville con­ the All-America Duncan, who ended up fouling out two of Virginia's big man. -Duncan's short bank shot  
92-78 victory over Houston on Wednesday night. Louisville (14-1, 3-0 Conference USA) shot a season­high 57 percent (34-of-60} from the field. the first team this sea­son to shoot better than 50 per­ verted into 26 points. The Cougars scored 25 points off Louisville's 15 turnovers. No. 2 Wake Forest 58, Virginia 54  with 1:07 left gave Wake Forest one of its few leads of the game, and after Harold Deane threw the ball away try­ing to get it inside, Duncan nailed another turnaround banker with 10 seconds left to  
cent against Houston (8-6, 0-2). The Cougars entered the game  WINSTON-SALEM, N.C. No. 2 Wake Forest survived a  seal the win. Duncan  also  had  14  
holding opponents to 42 per­cent shooting. Johnson, a 6-foot-6 forward, made two baskets · after Houston turnovers during a12­0 run that gave Louisville a 25­17 lead with 9:08 remaining in the half. Shamahn McBride scored the first four points of the second half to pull Houston within 46­41, but Johnson hit a 3-pointer from the corner and slipped inside for a layup as Louisville went on a 14-5 run to go up 60­46 with 15:39 to go. Houston rallied late in the game, closing to 77-69 on John Braxton's slam dunk at 4:29. B.J. Flynn countered with a 3 from the right wing 18 seconds later, and Houston got no closer than nine points the rest of the  second-half field goal drought and its first major scare of the season, getting two bank shots from Tim Duncan over the final 1:07 to edge Virginia 58-54 Wednesday night. The win gives the Demon Deacons (13-0, 5-0 Atlantic Coast Conference) their best league start in 34 seasons and kept them as one of only two undefeated Division I teams. On a night when Wake Forest unveiled its 1996 ACC champi­onship banner, the Demon Deacons needed every ounce of energy and all of Duncan's sea­son-high 28 points to hold off the Cavaliers to win their 25th straight home game. Virginia led 54-48 with 5:04 left as Wake Forest was in the final stages of a 12-minute field  rebounds and four blocked shots for his 22nd straight dou­ble-double and the 71st of his career.Courtney Alexander led the Cavaliers with 18 points, while Norman Nolan added 13. Virginia led all but three pos­sessions of the first half as the Cavaliers made their first five shots and eight of their first 11. Meanwhile, the Demon Deacons, who came into the game shooting 55.2 percent in their last four games, were ice cold from the field, missing 15 of their first 19 shots. That cold streak even stretched to Duncan, who started 3-for-11. Deane's 3-pointer 5:07 before halftime gave Virginia a nine-point lead, 28-19 -equalling Wake Forest's largest deficit of the season.  
way. Alvin Sims contributed 21 points and DeJuan Wheat added 18 for Louisville, which won its fourth straight game. It also marked Louisville's 500th victory against 61 losses in 41 seasons playing in Freedom Hall. Damon Jones scored 15  goal drought. But Tony Rutland's long 3-pointer with 2:58 left pulled the Demon Deacons to 54-52 and Ricky Peral's tip-in on a missed free throw by Duncan 56 seconds later tied the score at 54-54. Jamal Robinson then threw up an air ball 30 seconds later  However, Wake Forest was able to pull within one point at halftime as Loren Woods, who didn't play a minute in a win at No. 13 Duke on Saturday, scored on a follow and a hook shot and finished with eight first-half points as only three Demon Deacons scored. Louisville guard Alvin Sims poured in 2 Photo courtesy of Louisville Sports Information -­1 points to help the Cardinals  


~--~· ~ ·~­
--~--------~· ~­

-
lQl1.g YOad frlp af i 
lohe Star Siate 
By JOHN COPPOLELLA 
s_ptiifs Writer ''"' 
The Notre Dame men's swimming and diving team 

The Observer • SPORTS Thursday, January 16,1997 
• COllEGE BASKETBAll 

Hoosiers squeak by Wildcats 

w~s bus~.dJ.lr~ng th~holiday .. season, pai'ttcipatiii!rin the !!! nationaLConrpetition. Herb Clay Bom International Short Huesman had the highest flu­Course Swim Meet in Rio de ish for the Irish, placing fifth J{l:hiero, ar~?:il. and. the 1997 in the men's· three-meter div· All-Ameri~ari ···''Diving ,,;\'ng competition with a seoi'e of Champions}lip at the Jamail 463.90. Huesman finished Texas Swimming Center at the ninth overall with ascore of Universit exasiriAustin, 414.15. })arely missing the fi-Texas. wti!I+HL ::t-nals; which tookthe.top eight
lri Bra •• he Irish swim~ ming and diving team, along with Josh ,pavis, an All-American $whnme~i r9pre­
sented thi:l: United States of America in an international competition that included Argentina, Brazil, Ftus~ia, and Spain. '"''+' · · 
The Brazilian national team won the event, but Notre Dame swam well and sopho­more Chris Fugate earned a third place finish inthe 100 
meter backstroke. The com­petition was Olympic-caliber, and. although they did not fin• ish on top of the medal count, 30-million people watched the FOmpetition worldwide, was 
'r~itz~~~ :r~~n!k~%f~~~~~~ 
ence for us." In Texas. the Irish dove into 
.;:fthft··,19<;}7 ,All:Anl.eri~an Diving Championships. Under the leadership of secorid-year div­ing coach Caiming Xie, two Irish freshmen excelled in this 
divers · of the ·· meet. Additi!)nally, Tyler Maertz took 11th in, the preliminaries 
·•... of the th~~~:-rnet~.r.diving com­
petitionirwith a score of 
374.50. 
Although the Notre Dame 
men's swlrnmlng and diving 
team had a busy holiday sea­
son, they swim again Friday at 
Rolfs Aquatic Center against 
Bowling Green. The head 
cOach Qf Bowling Green, 
Randy Julian, who is in his 
second season, was an assis· 
taut coach at Notre Dame for 
five years and worked with 
coach Welsh. 



fancy yourself a 






lesigner 1 
come do some ad design for us at The Observer 
We need freshmen, sophomores, and juniors to help design our ads. Some knowledge of Macintosh Desktop Publishing is preferred; experience with Photoshop and Illustrator is a big bonus. 
call Jed at 634-1167 to apply. 

Associated Press 
EVANSTON, Ill. 
Neil Reed, benched for the 

entire first half by Indiana 
coach 13ob Knight, scored 16 of 
his 18 points over the final 5:23 
Wednesday night as the 17th­
ranked Hoosiers rallied for a 
66-63 victory over Big Ten 
doormat Northwestern. 
In recording its 16th consecu­

tive victory over Northwestern, 
Indiana (15-3, 2-2) avoided its 
first three-game conference los­
ing streak since 1990. 
The Hoosiers trailed 56-49 

before Heed took over, scoring 
all but one of their final 17 
points. His one-man show fea­
tured three 3-pointers ­
including one that gave Indiana 
the lead for good, 64-61 with 
1:27 to play. lie missed a free throw with 
5.1 seconds left, giving Northwestern (5-10, 0-4) a chance to tie. But Nate Pomeday's 3-point try at the 
.buzzer fell just short. 
Knight didn't say before the game why Heed, Indiana's sec­ond-leading scorer, didn't start. 
Andrae Patterson scored 20 points for the Hoosiers, who in their previous two games fell to Wisconsin for the first time in 17 years and blew a late 7­point lead in losing to Minnesota. 
Jevon Johnson scored 16 

points for the Wildcats, who 
have lost seven straight games. 
Though Patterson scored Indiana's first 11 points, it wasn't until Luke Jimenez made a 3-pointer that the Hoosiers went ahead, 14-12. 
Northwestern went back up, 20-18, on Pomcday's 3-pointer with 7:10 left in the half and the Wildcats stretched thnir lead to 28-23 before Indiana scored the last five points of the half to tic. 

Indiana had an especially pointers and Harold Jamison rough 2 1/2-minute stretch mid­had two baskets in a critical 10­way through the second half. 2 run, and No. 3 Clemson held 
Reed had to call a timeout on to beat the No. 11 Maryland when he was unable to inbound Terapins 67-63 Wednesday the ball. On the subsequent night. play, Patterson got trapped in Keith Booth led Maryland (14­the corner and needed another 2, 4-1) with 16 points and 
timeout. Sarunas Jasikevicius had 15. The score was tied before No. 3 Clemson 67, No. 11 Mcintyre hit a 3-pointer and Maryland 63 Jamison followed a Maryland COLLEGE PARK, Md. misfire with a layup to put the Terrell Mcintyre hit two 3-Tigers up 56-51 with 4:08 to go. 
The Observer/Rob Finch Indiana head coach Bobby Knight looks on as his team barely escapes with a 66-63 victory over Big Ten doormat Northwestern. 
LOOKEY HERE· 
WVfi STAFF MEMBERS THE wvfi "KIDS" YOUNG wvfi AMERICA DISCIPLES OF WVfi 
FULL STAFF MEETING 
THIS SUNDAY -8:30 PM 
MONTGOMERY TREATRE, LAFORTUNE 
··--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------.. 


The Observer • SPORTS 
the country, and it was encour­aging to see how high they both placed." 
for three more conference con­

Notre Dame will swim in tests before they head south to three meets over the upcoming 
Miami on the 29th of January. weekend. On Friday, they will So, McGraw will get a chance face Bowling Green at the Rolfs for her travel weary squad to 
Aquatic Center. They will then get some rest as they have 
swim on Saturday at Illinois three games in the next 13 
against the Indiana and the days which adds to benefits of 
Fighting Illini before heading the conclusion of their busy 
home to face Minnesota the road itinerary. 
next day. "These meets will be more r-------------, important than the Hawaii 

dual-meet and the Invitational," Weathers com­
··~·llllll.al.llillllll. mented. "The Big 1 0 teams usually put up quite a chal­lenge, and it will give the team
'97-98 

good experience for the Big
4-8 Bedrooms, 

East teams we will face later this season." 
Fully furnished 

The Irish will face Bowling
Security Systems 

Green at 5:00 p.m. and ­Minnesota at 1:00 p.m. on
Washers/Dryers 
Sunday.
call Pat @ 258·9996 J 

Announcing a slide lecture on American Civil War photography: 



·­
HIS LIFE AND WORK 
given by 
Keith Davis 
Keith Davis is the Fine Arts Program Director, Hallmark Fine Art Collections, and author of numerous books and articles on Barnard, Civil War photography, and American photography in general. 
A reception will follow in the atrium of the Snite Museum. For more information, call 631-5466. 
Thursday, January 16,7:30 pm. Annenberg Auditorium The Snite Museum of Art • University of Notre Dame 
open to the public tonight free of charge 
~~-----­
page 18 has been plagued by anagging
Soccer 
continued from page 20 
NCAA championship games. Renola tallied up shutouts in all four of the Irish's NCAA games in 1995. 
She will graduate this May with a degree in English and computer applications. Renola has earned a spot on the Dean's list six times in her 
three  plus  years  at  Notre  
Dame.  
The  other  Irish  captain,  

Daws, was bestowed one of soccer's highest honors. She was named the 1996 Missouri Athletic Club Sports Foundation Collegiate Soccer Player of the Year. Daws was the first play­er to receive this honor at Notre Dame. 
Throughout her career, Daws 

The Observer • SPORTS Thursday, January 16, 1997 


• FOOTBALL 
Davie names Robinson to coach IriSh running backs 
injury. She broke her left foot in the summer of 1994. This was the first season that she was healthy. She lead the Irish to a record of 24-2. Daws cap­tained the Irish from the mid­dle with her excellentskills. In the championship match, UNC feared her so much that they double teamed her the entire game. This past season, Daws scored 26 goals and tallied a career high 72 points. She is currently Notre Dame's all-time leading scorer with 161 points. 
Throughout the season the women's soccer team has been searching for a little respect, and finally they received some peace of mind. Renola and Daws sparked the Irish pro­gram to among the best in the nation, and now they are being recognized for their achieve­ments. 

··Special to the Observer 
. Des~nd Robinson, running back Qoach the last two seasons at West Virginia, has joined Bob Davie's football staff at the University of Notre Dame as running back coach. . 
In '96 Robinson helped Don Nehlen's Mountaineers to an overall 8-4 mark and a Gator Bowl appearance while tutoring first­team all-Big East tailback Amos Zereonfl, who gained 1,035 rushing yards to earn Big East Rookie-of-the· Year honors. 
The Atlanta, Ga., native also coachlild at West Virginia from 1988 through '91, working with the defensive line the first three years, then coaching running backs in the last of those four seasons. During that period he coache<\ Mountaineer teams that faced Notre Dame in the '89 Fiesta Bowl and earned a Gator Bowl berth against Clemson to conclude the '89 sea­son. 
Among the Mountaineer players he coached were '88 All-America defensive tackle Chris Parker, all-Big East tackles Mike Fox ('88 and '89) and Jim Gray ('88 through '90) and all con­ference tailback Adrian Murrell{'91). 
Robinson spent three seasons·at Tulane from 1992~94, serving as assistanthead <;oach and coaching the defensive linemen the first two years and inside linebackers the final season in New Orleans. 
An assistant at Dartmouth in 1987 coaching inside linebackers, Robinson spent five seasons at Connecticut beginning in 1982. coaching the defensive .line and serving· as recruiting· coordi" nator. He began his coaching career at West Fulton (Ga.) High School in 1978, then spent one season as part•time dl;lfensive. back eoach at Pittsburgh in 1981 before moving to Connecticut. 
Robinsqp played linebacker and defensive end at Pittsburgh, playing on the Panthers' 1976 national championship team and participating in the '75 Sun, '76 Sugar, '77 Gator and '78 Tangerine Bowls. Davie was a graduate assis­tant coach on the· '77 Pittsburgh team on which Robinson played, . 
A '78 Pittsburgh graduate with a degree in management, Robinson and his wife Pearlena are parents of two children, Jason and Ashley. 
How does room, board, academic credit, tuition credit, and a rewarding summer sound? 
N••ti••••••l ,.ttllfll 51tttrfM -1•r•••1r••••• 
~ is hiring for its summer sports camp 
I 
I I 
I Pick up applications at the CSC. Call 1-6614 for 
I 
more information and to schedule an interview.
i' 
I 
I 
I 
i 
I 
I L• 
I I 
I I 
I I 
I 
I 
APPLICATIONS DUE 
I 
JANUARY 22 AT THE CSC 
Info Night Monday January 20 6:00-6:30 p.m.
L}~:.::jJI±~!~!! Auma 

at the esc
Notre Dame goaltender Jen Renola received recognition as one of the NCAA's top eight student athletes. SOCIAL 
Interview now! 
CONCERNS 
$1700 Tuition Scholarship 3 Theology credits 
Start the Semester off Right••• 
Friday & Saturday 
vs. Alaska-Fairbanks ... 7:00pm .... 
..u.•n~r'! Center Ice Arena 
2,/ ftltuMM14 ~ Saturday vs. Pi~tsburgh 1:00pm 81MJ.u IIJill, J~ 
Thursday, January 16, 1997 The Observer • TODAY 
CREAM 0' THE VALLEY ROAD ED LEADER 

MOTHER GOOSE & GRIMM 

DILBERT 
YOU HA.VE. BEEN CHOSEN A.'S 
BILL GA.TES' TOWE.L BOY. 
BOT Hf\'ST '<OU MUST 
A.N5WER. THIS 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 1 Broker's security 7 Disappoints 15 Reluctant 1& Abyssinia, today 17 Start of a quip concerning a Hitchcock film 19 Radials 20 Masse net opera 21 Site of the tree of life 22 Hammer parts 23 Employer watchdog: Abbr. 27 0-U link 2820's hit"-­Get By" 29 Carer for horses 
Qurz.. 
31 One of 150 33 Beauty's swain 34 Middle of the 
quip 39 Developed 40 Starts of some 
pranks 41 Usurper 44 One-striper: 
Abbr. 45 --Zeppelin 48 Whiffenpoofs 49 Sturdy stocking 
stuff 51 Tomato type 52 Former enemy 
capital 53 River to the Rio 
Grande 54 End of the quip 591942 u.s. 
victory site 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
~~"-'--H 
SCOTT ADAMS 

'<00'1\E 11\1 A p.()()fl\ uliTI-I I GOES'S TJ.IE SUCCESSFUL THRE.E 1"\0NI<.EYS. ONE TOWE.l B0'1'5 KNOW THAT 
HA.5 A B~NA.N~'~ ONE HUMA.N5 A.RE PRIMA.TE5 
1-\A.S A STICK 1 ONE HAS TOO. NOTHING. WI-\ICH PRifi\A.TE IS THE 51"\A.RTE.STi' 
60 Mary's home, in 
an old song &1 Like steppes &2 Ceremonial 
dinners 
DOWN 
1 Concern 2Dodges 3 "What if" feeling 4 Village center 5 Followers & Basketball 
champions' "trophy" 7 River of 
forgetfulness a Allen and Frome 9 Devout one 
10 Brothers and 
others 11 E. R. letters 12 Choose 13 "--geht's?" 
(German "How
are you?") 14 TV's "Emerald Point--" 

page 19 YOUR HOROSCOPE JEANE DIXON 
-
HAPPY BIRTHDAY! IN THE at home can be more producll ve NEXT YEAR OF YOUR LIFE: than going to the oflice. Be ~e11ain You get a second ~han~e at a won­higher-ups understand your need for derful employment opportunity. A privacy and quiet. A phone call friend whose talents arc similar to brings the answer to an employment your own wants to bc~ome your or financial yucstion_ partner. Heed an older friend's VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): You advice about a close relationship. A could meet someone very attractive romance with a younger person while on a trip. Let this person take co).Jid be pure bliss! By late summer, the lead when it comes to revealing you will gain control over a long­hopes and plans. Your lirst impres­term problem. New investments are sions arc usually right. favored next fall. Postpone travel LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): New until December. Accepting a tempo­projects are the key to greater linan­rary work assignment could boost cial security. Do not be afraid to your earning power. open the door and step over the 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON threshold. Your optimism and exu­THIS DAY: auto racer A.J. Foyt. hcrancc arc valuahlc-assets. cover girl Kate Moss, singer Sadc. SCOI{PIO (0~1. 23-Nov. 21 ): fashion photographer Franccs~o Call a halt to indecisiveness. Give Seavullo. work projects everything you have. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): An authority figure's advice helps Pay attention to what you feel, not you boost your income. Move slow­what other people arc saying. Emo­ly in romance. tional fultillment is more important SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. than ever. Look beneath the surface 21 ): Aerobi~s or jogging gets the to get at the truth. day off to a fast start. Enroll in a 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): A class. A fund-raising campaign psychic experience is an eye-open­would benefit from your involve­er! Guard against acting jealous of ment. Put seltish interests on hold. the admiration your mate or panner CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): enjoys. Sincerity is a plus in Think twice before becoming in­romance. Encourage your loved volved in a co-worker's personal ones to speak from the heart. life. You could find out more than 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): you want to know. Be zealous in Heed someone's warnings about a business negotiations. new acquaintance or arrangement. AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Important relationships must be Work demands the lion's share of based on mutual trust. Business and your attention today. Try not to be career matters keep you on the run put off by sorneone's eccentric man­during work hours. ner; he could have a valuable con­
CANCER (June 21-July 22): tribution to make. Good health habits, including exer­PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): cise, make you attractive to the op­Others will be annoyed if you drag posite sex. Small social gatherings your heels on an important project. hold more appeal than larger affairs. Show your shrewd, tenacious nature A secret is revealed, catching you in business negotiations. Plant seeds unawares. of creativity that will blossom early. 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Working Say "no" to a se~ret romance. 
-
":'+::+::-+:-71 18 Opera set in 35 City south of 51 Fix, as a worn 55 In place of 
Cyprus Moscow ·cushion 56 Certain numero 22 Cavort 3& Sun hat 52 Site of 7 -Down 57"Some-­-~;+:,::..f 23 Toes the line 53 Sweat meat and canna
37 Mary Macleod ~.:;.+:~:...t 24 Chopped wrote in it source eat": Burns cabbage 
54 Beeriest time: 58 Lofty address 
38 Alengon's

..:....f.,;.+==:+;,~ 25 "F~r-jolly Abbr. abbr.
department 42 Pass
2& Bohemian 28 Byron's "the 43 Salon tasks 

Answers to any three clues in this puzzle --ofGreece.!" 45 Site are available by touch-tone phone: -:-f'!'!'t~,..+=-1!''!'! ...:,-+.:;:-+:,;:.+:~ 30 French clerics 1-900-420-5656 (75¢ per minute). 
46Ham

~"-'--HR~ 31 Mexican money Annual subscriptions are available for the ~=+=-+~~ 32 Kind of pie 47 Track events best of Sunday crosswords from the last ...:....l.=.J,;:..:.J.:::.J.::.J 34 Cooked 50 Nutritious beans 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS . 
th g 
.......... 
-
SPORTS 
page 20 Thursday, January 16, 1997 
• WOMEN's BASKETBALL 

Irish leave 'Cuse seeing orange 
By JOE CAVATO They have won four in a row date Katryna Gaither who Sports Writer which pushes their season scored 21 on 9 for 17 shooting mark to 14-4. and they remain while also snagging eight re­Concluding a road trip is al­undefeated in Big East play at bounds. Senior superstar Beth ways a pleasure, and the trip 6-0.. Morgan struggled a bit but put home can be even sweeter with Four Domers scored in dou­in 15 or her own while her a convincing win. ble figures as the squad shot counterpart at forward, 
The Notre Dame women's over 50 percent from the field, Hosanne Bohman, added 12 on basketball team did just that as and they held the hosts to just live of sevPn shooting. six of their last seven contests 25 percent while forcing them On the perimeter senior were on foreign soil and they to launch it from the cheap guard .Jeannine Augustin ran were too much for Syracuse (4-seats as they attempted 24 the offense and dished out ten 11, 2-5 in Big East play) as they three-pointers. assists and committed just one came away with a 72-45 vic­Leading the way for the Irish turnover in her 28 minutes on tory. again was All-American candi-the floor. 
A pleasant surprise for head coach MufTet McGraw came in the person of freshman center Julie Henderson out of Ann Arbor, MI. who didn't miss a shot from the field on her way to 12 points and live rebounds in just 15 minutes of action. 
On the other side of the ball, Teakyta Barnes scored 21 of the 45 points for the Orangewomen although she shot 8 for 22 from thn field. Neither Kristyn Cook nor Haque! Nurse could find the basket as they combined to shoot 2 for 22 on the night. 
The Irish got out to a 6-0 lead to start the contest and finished the half with a ten point lead. In the second stanza, McGraw's squad used runs of four, five, and seven to open the lead to 

-17. With five minutes left, Notre Dame maintained their 
intensity and went on a 14 point run which was ended by a 

All-American candidate Katryn Gaither pouted in a team-best 21 points. see w. HOOPS 1page 17 Freshman Julie Henderson gave Notre Dame a big lift with 12 points . 



-
...... 
• WOMEN's.SWIMMING 

Irish enjoy sunny, successful holidays 
By BILL HART Spom Writer 
While most students spent their holidays at home or on vaca­tion, the Notre Dame women's swimming team continued to compete through the holiday break. 
·"Luckily," junior Linda Gallo admitted, "we were able to have a change of pace, swimming in a warmer climate than South Bend." · · 
Notre Dame began their holiday schedule on December 30 in Honolulu, heating Hawaii soundly, 133-72. Gallo was a triple winner, capturing the 200, 500 and 1000 freestyle races. Shannon Suddarth won the 200 individual medley and the 200 breaststroke. Leticia Herrera,. Erin Brooks and Courtney South were other Winners for the Irish. With the win, the Irish improved their dual-meet record to 4-1. 
"I was pleased to see them swim againstHawaii as well as they did," head coach Bailey Weathers commented. "I think it was difficult for tire team to practice and compete over the holi­day break. but it's part of the sport, and I appreciate the fact that they were-able to step up to the challenge." 
After a two-day break, Notre Dame began the new year by placing third in the Rainbow Invitational at Honolulu. Texas A&M claimed the title with 133 points, while Wisconsin placed second with 65, just three points ·ahead of the Irish. Notre Dame was led by second-place finishes from Brooks in the 100 backstroke, Gallo in the 500 freestyle, and Suddarth in the 200 breaststroke. Gallo and Suddarth also placed third in the 200 individual medley and the 100 breaststroke. respectively. 
"The team competed much better in the Rainbow Invitational." Weathers commented. ''While there weren't any first-place fmishes, the times were much faster than in earlier competitions. I think this competition really improved the 
see SWIM/ page 17 
• 
at Syracuse, Jan.18,4p.m. 
vs. Pitt, Jan. 18, 1 p.m. vs. Bowling Green, 
M 
;~ Jan. 17 w vs. Bowling Green, 
,.,r.t?~ 
Jan. 17 
• WOMEN'S SOCCER 

Daws, Renola achieve honors 
By KATHLEEN LOPEZ Sports Writer 
Throughout the entire sea­son, the women's soccer team received numerous accolades. Despite the fact that Alumni Field lays under a blank of snow, the awards keep coming in. Seniors Jen Henola and Cindy Daws led the Irish all the way to the Championship final. 
Renola was named onr, of the eight recipients of the NCAA Today's Top Eight, which rec­ognizes eight student-athletes for their achievements in ath­letics, academics and leader­ship. 1996 Ileisman Trophy Winner Danny Wuerffel and UCLA's Olympic gold medalist Annette Salmeen were among the others who were recog­nized. 
"I can think of no one more deserving of such a prestigious award," said Notm Danw head coach Chris Petrucelli. "For four years, .Jen has bnen a won­derful representative of our women's soccer program and of the University of Notre Dame both on and off the field." 
The two-time Irish captain is the first Notre Dame student­athlete to be recognized. She led the team to three straight 


The Observer/Mike Ruma 
Senior Cindy Daws became the first Notre Dame player to capture the see SOCCER I page 18 Missouri Athletic Club's Player of the Year award. 

vs. Alaska-Fairbanks 

• Davie names new coach 
Jan. 17 see page 18
B'asketball at Iusb Jan. 16, 7 p.m. 
• Siefert steps down 
Swimming vs. DePauw see,,page 12Jan. 30, 7:30p.m. 





