
Monday, November 17, 1997 • Vol. XXXI No. 55 THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 

The Observer/Katie Kroener 
Former presidential candidate Michael Dukakis (center) joined several colleagues Friday morning in a discussion that centered around political campaigning and the federal regulation of campaign contributions. 
Dukakis, panel address campaign fundraising 

'ITIS 
POSSI­BLE TO RAISE FlJNDS WITHOUT COMPRO­MISING VALUES. I RAISED 

MONEY FROM MANY SMALL DONORS AND THAT HELPED FORM A LARGE GRASS ROOTS ORGANIZATION. THOSE PEOPLE THEN WENT OUT AND WORKED HARD FOR MY CAMPAIGN.' 
MICHAEL Dt 'f;.. \KIS FORMER PRESIDENTIAL CAND/lJATE 

• MUI..TICULT!JRAL BEAT 
By HEATHER MACKENZIE 
Assistant News Editor 
Money, scandal and corruption were at thfl heart of thfl debate Friday morn­ing when several visiting scholars, including former presidential candidate Michael Dukakis, headlined a sympo­sium on the issue of campaign finance reform. 
Dukakis, who is presently a professor at Northeastern University, joined sever­al of his colleagues on a panel for this discussion. They included Donald Simon, executive vice president of the lobbying organization Common Cause; Bradley Smith, associate professor at Capital University and adjunct scholar with the CATO institute; Craig Engle, general counsel to the National Republican Senatorial committee; William Marshall, associate council to the president of the United States; and Kenneth Weine, staff attorney at the Brennan Center of 
Justice. 
"Candidates are prostituting them­selves for corruption when they accept soft money contributions," Dukakis said in his opening remarks, summarizing the central issue in the campaign finance reform discussion. 
"Soft money" is contributed to political parties and campaigns and does not comply with federal restrictions that are meant to prevent private interest from interfering with elections, according to Simon. 
The questions that these soft money contributions raise, he said, is whether or not the contributors have special interests in the campaign and if they arc using these large contributions to per­suade a political candidate to act a cer­tain way on a particular issue. 
"The theory is that these contributions are not intended to influence the cam­paign but rather to encourage party building," Simon said. "That theory is a myth. Soft money is plainly raised to influence a campaign. You can see that from the presidential level on down." 
The problem discussed by Simon is whether or not political parties should. be allowed to accept large amounts of money from corporations or special interest groups. Although there ar!l laws regulating the specific amount an indi­vidual can contribute, Simon asserted. there are ways around the laws. 
"The money the current system allows into the campaign is the problem," he said. "This is exactly the kind of money that the law for decades has intended to get rid of." 
Dukakis agreed, and explained his theory on campaign reform. 
"It is possible to raise funds at any level without compromising values," he said. "I raised money from many small donors and that helped form a large grass roots organization. Those people then went out and worked hard for my campaign." 
see DUKAKJS I page 4 

Week honors Native-American traditions 
By CHRIS SHIPLEY News Writer 
Native-American heritage will be celebrated this week by Notre Damp, students and community membnrs in an effort to explore the traditions behind this culture. Beginning today, the University will officially observe Native-American llflritage wm~k. 
The Nativc-Am(~rican Student Association will sponsor three P-vents for the week whieh tie into a theme of eelebrat­ing the art and culture of the Native-American tradition. 
"''m very exeited," said NASAND co-prcsidP-nt Otakuye Conroy. "We want to promote Native-American heritage and get representation from the trilws here on campus." 
The week's activities will begin tomorrow night at 6:30 
p.m. with an American-Indian taco dinner and movie pre­sentation at the Center for Social Concerns. NASAND will show "Lakota Woman," an account of the political uprisings which occurred on the Pioneer Indian Reservation during the 1970s, from 7:30 p.m. to 9 p.m. Dinner is $3, and admission to the movie is free. 
Traditional Native-Ameriean potlPry and jewelry will be sold and exhibited on Wednesday from 10 a.m. until 3 p.m. in the first floor elevator lobby of LaFortune Student Center. The show will feature artists from tribes in the southwest­P-ro United States. 
Native-American Heritage Wenk will condude on Friday with performances by renowned artists Jackie Bird, a Lakota singer and dancer, and Jose Andrew, a Ilopi/Quechan flute player. The event is scheduled to begin at 8 p.m. in the LaFortune Ballroom. Native American stu­dents will also perform a number of different routines. 
The Snitc Museum of Modorn Art, the Office of Multicultural Student Affairs and Student Activities are also sponsoring this week's events. 
Ladies and gentlemen, place your bets ... 
SENIOR DADS' WEEKEND 1997 

T
he Saint Mary's senior class host­ed the annual Senior Dads' Weekend Friday through Sunday. Senior women and their fathers gam­bled with fake money at Casino Night on Friday (above and left), where "win­nings" could be exchanged for raffled prizes. Other weekend events included a tailgating party on Saturday after­noon and a Mass dedicated to the seniors, their parents and friends on Sunday morning. 


~ -­page 2 
• INSIDE COLUMN 


Why don't we 
-watch the -wofllen? 

What a game this week-~~~~~~~ 
end. 
From the opening kickoff to the fmal whistle, the Irish pretty much dominat­ed the game and walked away with a convincing victory. The few hundred Notre Dame fans sure 


made themselves heard Dan Cichalski 
among all the empty Assistant Managing Editor 
seats. It was definitely 
the way the Irish should play. 

Chances are everyone reading this column 
right now thinks it is about the 24-6 Notre 
Dame victory over LSU Saturday. But it refers 
to the women's soccer team's 7-1 win Sunday 
against Cincinnati in the NCAA tournament. 
While the Fighting Irish gridiron teams are 
known for their overall dominance throughout 
their storied history, the Fighting Irish who play 
on Alumni Field are building quite a tradition 
themselves. 
But nobody seems to notice. 

Notre Dame's women's soccer team has put 
together a record of 89-5-4 since the start of 
the 1994 season, reaching the NCAA title game 
each year and coming home with the top prize 
in 1995. Despite this consistent domination, the 
Alumni Field bleachers remain surprisingly 
bare game after game. Those who do support 
Chris Petrucelli's team regularly are mostly 
people not affiliated with the University, and 
are the same people game after game. 

This phenomenon is not unique to women's 
soccer, though. Muffet McGraw's women's bas­
ketball team reached the Final Four last April, 
but few came to watch the Irish at home during 
the season. And Debbie Brown's volleyball team 
has not lost a match to a Big East opponent 
since joining the conference three years ago. 
At a school whose fans, students. supporters 
and administration put so much emphasis on 
winning-whether or not you or the trustees 
admit it, it's true-this lack of support for con­
sistent winners is alarming. 

While the football, hockey and men's basket­
ball teams have struggled recently, their fan 
base has not waned -though the support has; 
there's a difference. But throughout four years. 
and more, of nothing but winning, those and 
other women's teams do not seem to draw any 
more people to their events. 

Perhaps part of the fault for this lack of inter­
est lies not in the sporting fans. but in the 
media and other highly influential areas of soci­
ety. In a country where recreation is so impor­
tant, we can barely get enough of team and 
individual athletic contests. 

All newspapers, newscasts and sports reports 
are guilty of devoting much more time and 
space to the four major professional leagues 
and men's sports in general. But with the 
WNBA, Sports Illustrated's Women Sport and 
the buzz created by women's successes in the 
1996 Olympics. this half of the decade repre­
sents the most significant advance of women's 
athletics since Title IX. 

The problem is there is still a long way to go. 
We watch Peyton Manning throw for 300 
yards each game and drool at what he may do 
when he reaches the NFL. 

But we watch Holly Manthei lead the Irish 
soccer team to that 89-5-4 record in her four 
years through Sunday, and we will need a 
satellite dish to catch the women's national 
team ifwe want to follow Manthei's career 
away from the Dome. 

And somehow it's all supposed to be equal. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
• TOOAY's STAFF  
News  Accent  
Sean Smith  Nate Wills  
Michelle Krupa  Graphics  
Sarah Hiltz  Melissa Weber  
Bill Uniowski  Production  
Sports  Kathleen Lopez  
Bill Hart  Lab Tech  
Kathleen Lopez  Patrick Quigley  
Viewpoint  
Brandon Williams  

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday ~xcepr during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of rhe Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
The Observer· INSIDE Monday, November 17, 1997 





'-,v~Putside the Dome 
~.J "' 
Kaczynski trial ends hounding of math professors 
BERKELEY, Calif. 

A note accompanying a bomb sent by the serial terrorist known as the Unabomber arrived on the University of California Berkeley campus in 1982 with a note addressed to UC Berkeley math Professor IIung-Hsi Wu, saying "Wu, it works! I told you it would, RV." 
Although some assert that the note was an attempt to throw off investi­gators, UC Berkeley math professors said that these words. accompanying a bomb that exploded in Cory Hall, shocked them into realizing the very calculated nature of the Unabomber's attacks. 
Now, 15 years after the incident, former UC Berkeley math Professor Theodore Kaczynski awaits the selection of the jury that will deter­mine his fate. 
The commencement of Kaczynski's 
trial is the beginning of the end for "I once estimated that over 50 technology beliefs. 
• UNIVERSITY OF CAlifORNIA los ANGELES 
Budget cuts eliminate free HIV tests 
LOS ANGELES 
Getting tested for HIV at UCLA just got a lot harder. For 
the past 10 years, UCLA Sexual Health Services Center 
offered free anonymous testing to the public. However, 
due to recent budget cuts in state funding. the center can 
no longer provide this service for free. In order to contin­
ue to offer its testing and counseling services, the center 
must now charge $45 per person to cover costs such as 
Jab fees and part-time staffing. The center introduced this 
steep fee in September, when it began feeling the pinch of 
the funding cut, a decision made in June. As of June 30, 
the center and many other HIV testing clinics throughout 
California stopped receiving their shares of the $1.6 mil­
lion grant, as a result of Gov. Pete Wilson's line-item veto. 
These funds will now most likely be reallocated to other 
areas in AIDS health issues, such as research or medicine, 
explained Sydney Hardy, the center's Project Director for 
STDIHIV Education/Prevention & Outreach. 
• DEPAUW UNIVERSITY 
Kappa won't punish for hazing 
GREENCASTLE, Ind. 
Kappa Kappa Gamma sorority's Iota chapter decided Wednesday night not to strip anyone of membership in the wake of last Thursday's alleged hazing incident. Kappa's national organization said Thursday that this move comes after students on the Iota chapter's standards committee, a smaller group of initiated sorority members. recommended that the group of at least 12 women involved be stripped of membership. The Kappa national organization will now, with the university, conduct its own investigation into the matter. The national chapter and the university will deter­mine what action they will take. Twelve or more Kappa members were in a Hogate Hall dormitory room last Thursday, and allegedly hazed four or more pledges. At least three pledges have told police that actives burned them on the hip with cigarettes. Amanda Ileldt, who was allegedly in the room, is the younger sister of student body president Trina Heldt, who is also a Kappa. 
• SOUTH BENO WEATHER • NATIONAl WEATHER 5 Day South Bend Forecast 
The AccuWeather® forecast for noon, Monday, Nov. 17. 
AccuWeather"' forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures Lines separate. high temperature zones for the day. 
Monday ~ 37 19 Tuesday ~ 48 29 37 2611

WednesdayQ 
{, ·:· ·:· 
Thur~,day 4,(43 26 
........... 
COLD WARM STATIONARY 
Cl 1997 AccuWeather, Inc. 
Pressure 

H L m ~ [I] 0 . ~ b:=:J {.) !:) u
Frid~y .. r9,' 48 34 
HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T·STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY
,..~.....s:...-·-s·....··-........._;.......... ~.../'~ 
V1a Associated Pmss 

Baltimore  46  24  Dubuque  45  24  Juneau  39  31  
Boston  42  30  Fresno  61  39  Miami  79  65  
9,~,~9-Q.Q (f Showers T-storms Rain Flurries Snow Ice Sunny Via Associated Press GraphicsNet  ~ u Pt. Cloudy Cloudy  Boulder 55 Disneyworld 65 Detroit 40  22 44 26  Helena Hershey Houston  39 43 56  25 22 42  Mobile New York Phoenix  56 44 69  31 32 49  

news organizations had spoken to me (about Kaczynski)." said John Addison. a math professor who chaired the department during part of the time Kaczynski was on the faculty. 
"One day I had the CBS national news in my study, and then ABC showed up unannounced." 
lie said the intense public interest surrounding the case seems to stem from the desire to understand why a brilliant mathematician would allegedly turn to murder. 
"The mere fact that he was offered a (teaching) position at Berkeley points to his intelligence," Addison said. "I think that people are hoping to find clues (as to) what would motivate a man of his caliber to do such terrible things." 
However, Addison said he was not surprised with Kaczynski's anti­
• HARVARO UNIVERSITY 
Iraq crisis causes cancelled visit 
CAMBRIDGE. Mass. 

Secretary General of the United Nations Kofi Annan had to 
cancel his visit to Harvard yesterday because of the recent 
heightened tensions between the U.N. and Iraq. The delicate 
situation requires Annan's presence in the deliberations at 
the U.N. headquarters in New York, according to Juan-Carlos 
Brandt, Annan's spokesperson. "The Secretary General 
regrets his inability to come to Harvard," he said. Iraq defied 
the Security Council's unanimous decision on Wednesday to 
impose sanctions on the Middle Eastern nation for failing to 
cooperate with the U.N. disarmament commission. "The situ­
ation regarding the Iraqi government's position vis-a-vis the 
U.N. inspectors has escalated in the past few days," Brandt said. "Things are moving fast." Iraq has repeatedly refused to allow U.N. weapons inspectors to examine their facilities because of the presence of American representatives. Iraq has also threatened to shoot down U.S. spy planes flying overhead in accordance with U.N. mandated surveillance. 
• IOWA STATE UNIVERSITY 
Student dies at stadium 
AMES. Iowa 

A community college student died suddenly at Jack Trice Stadium Saturday during the Iowa State/Colorado football game. Heather Ileemsbergen, 19, of rural Bloomfield, suffered a pulmonary embolism and collapsed while walking down the steps of section 12, in the south­west part of the stadium. She was taken to Mary Greeley Medical Center where she was pronounced dead. John Tinker, investigator of the Department of Public Safety, said I-Ieemsbergen collapsed at 11:10 a.m. and para­medics arrived on the scene immediately. "They were there within a very short period of time," he said. Doctor Mark Blaedel, a staff physician at the !SU Student Health Center, said a pulmonary embolism occurs when a blood clot is "released from someplace in your body and ends in your lungs." Heemsbergt'm was a student at Southeastern Community College in Burlington. She was attending the football game with her family. 


----~------~----------------~~~-­
Monday, November 17, 1997 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS page 3 

otre Dame and visiting scholars met Friday at the Law School to discuss and celebrate the recent publi­Ncation of "Premises and Conclusions: Symbolic Logic in Legal Analysis," written by University professor Bob Rhodes. 

Scholars discuss logic in law 
By MATTHEW LOUGHRAN 
Associate News Editor 
This weekend, nine top scholars in the field of law came together in the Notre Dame Law School to discuss contemporary symbolic logic. 
"The symposium was really to celebrate the publication of a logic book by Bob Rodes, one of our professors," said John Garvey, Notre Dame law pro­fessor and organizer of the conference. "It is the kind of book that can be used in study as well though. It has a legal angle in that it gives legal examples of logic." 
The book, "Premises and Conclusions: Symbolic Logic in Legal Analysis," released in February was co-authored by Hodes and Howard Popesel, professor of philosophy at the University of Miami. 
"Basically the book explores logical problems that you face in the practice of law," said Rodes. 

lie added that he considered the conference to be beneficial in looking at such problems as well. "We got a chance to look at different ways to use logic," he said. 
"We had people there like Layman Allen, a professor of law from the University of Michigan, who has been in the field of logic for as long as anybody," Rodes said. 
Allen, Rodes and Popesel ­along with law professors Kevin Saunders from the University of Oklahoma. John Rogers from the University of Kentucky, Larry Alexander from the University of San Diego and philosophy profes­sors Douglas Walton from the University of Winnipeg, and Patricia Sayre from Saint Mary's College -all presented papers about logic and its use in law. 
"We also had Rich Friedmann from the University of Michigan Law School who is in Oxford teaching for the year," said Garvey. "We flashed an electronic copy of his paper and had him present through video teleconferenc­ing." 
Both professors agreed that the conference was a benefi­cial step in understanding the use of logic. 
"The first year of law school you spend trying to think like a lawyer," Garvey said. "Symposiums like this are real important, not for what we do, but for how we do it. Instead of asking questions like, what do we do about assisted sui­cide? We ask if lawyers a rea­son by analogy, if they think differently than everyone else." 
Kelleher: Leadership can augment Nigeria 
By DAVID FREDDOSO 
Assistant News Editor 
After spending 21 years teaching in Nigeria, Notre Dame alumnus Mike Kelleher returned to his alma mater on Friday to speak on the future of his African home. 
"Is there any hope for Nigeria?" asked Kelleher, who is a professor of chemistry at the University of Nigeria. 
He explained that there are many reasons for pessimism in his lecture at Windmoor University Center. 
"Since I arrived in Nigeria in 1975," he said, "educationally we've gone downhill. Infrastructurally, it has not improved. All the Nigerians want to get out of their coun­try right now." 
Kelleher considers this to be a real shame. 
"Nigeria has one of the largest pools of natural resources in all Africa," he said. "It has one of the largest pools of human resources, too. I have not met such a concen­tration of dedicated and tal­ented people in any country." 
Yet because of the leader­ship, he said, Nigeria is one of the most corrupt societies in the world today, both within its population and its govern­ment. It is perfectly normal for government officials to funnel money out of the public sector. 
Honest officials are actually very rare, and even face pub­lic ridicule for being honest, he added. He reported that professors sell grades at the universities, and students even hire replacements to take their tests. 
The Nigerian people are impoverished, Kelleher went on, because in the late 1970s, the government devalued the national currency, the naira, by a factor of 80, while only increasing teachers' salaries by a factor of eight. 
Kelleher believes that this need not be the case, consid­ering the beauty and richness of of Nigeria. 
He explained that the cause of today's problem and tomor­row's solution to the problem are one and the same: leader­ship. 
"In the Third World coun­tries, unlike western democ­racies, there is no buffering action for the deeds of the leaders," he said. "One leader can make or break a country in the Third World." 
Some of the leaders in inde­pendent Nigeria have fun­neled over half the country's annual Gross Domestic Product into their own savings accounts, have instilled cor­rupt moral principles in the populace, which have resulted both in widespread corruption and poverty. 
Kelleher listed three of these principles, which he attrib­uted to General Babangida, dictator until 1993. 
"First, money is the highest good. Second, every man for himself. Third, the end justi­fies the mean," he explained. 
The very dynamism and flexibility of the Nigerian peo­ple, Kelleher said, gives them a great affinity for following suit when their leaders set an example. 
Unfortunately, he continued, this excellent quality they have has been used to corrupt and impoverish the country rather than to work for the common good. He cited Babangida. 
However, he added that the Nigerian leaders and the lead­ers of other African countries who were honest and worked for the common good were able to influence the people for the better. 
He gave the example of Ghana, which is just west of Nigeria. Since an honest leader took over the govern­ment there, he said, Ghana has gone from being among the poorest and most under­employed nations in the world to having a fairly high level of employment. This is despite the fact that Ghana has only one thirtieth of the natural wealth of Nigeria. 
"I haven't lost hope for the country," he said. "There is hope. The hope is leadership," he said. "Any country that gets a leader who can use the nation's resources for the infrastructure and the com­mon good will stand up." 



A?~~~ Eck Tennis Pavilion Stroke Analysis 
& 
Playing Situations Presented By: Men's & Women's Varsity Tennis Teams 
Free of Charge No Advance Registration Necessary Bring Your Own Racquet ennis Shoes Required, No Running Shoes Allowed 
Open to All Notre Dame Students 
---~ ------------------' 
page 4 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS Monday, November 17, 1997 
Dukakis 

continued from page 1 
Dukakis explained that he was appalled with the way soft money is used in campaigns at the national level. 

"I was told that I would be campaigning with a hopeless disadvantage if I did not use soft money," he said. "I reluc­tantly agreed to use this money, but I set several self-imposed limits. I refused to let these contributions corrupt me. 
"The solution is simple," Dukakis continued. "Reform laws need to be in place to force candidates to a more grass roots level." 
But Dukakis' opinion was not shared by all members of the panel. Engle asserted that there should be no regulatory laws placed on campaign finances and that the individual donor limit of $100,000 should actual­ly be increased. 
"That limit was set in 1976," Engle said. "Everything has gone up in price. That $100,000 dollars is worth about $330 today." 
Engle expressed his belief that limiting the dollar amount on contributions to such a low sum actually encouraged con­tributors to use unlawful means to donate the amount they feel is appropriate to a certain cam­paign. 
"This restriction drives money around the limit and turns it into soft money," he said. "The t·eason that some people have gone to jail is because they want to contribute more than $100,000." 
"Politics is not pretty," Smith agreed. "This system is ugly, but it is our system." 
Smith believes that setting a limit on campaign funds and the type of contributions a party can receive actually restricts the constitutional right to free speech as stated in the First Amendment. 
"Campaigns are about per­suading people to vote," he said. "It costs money to commu­nicate. If you want to get money from a lot of small sources, you have to tell them what they already believe. The only way to get new ideas into a cam­paign is to get money from a few small sources." 
Dukakis disagreed: "Let's not kid ourselves. We all know how the world of big money works. Let's see if we can cultivate a system that candidates are not only forced but compelled to go back to a grass roots level." 
Although many views were raised and the panelists had diverging views on the issue of campaign finance reform, Dukakis ended the symposium on a positive note. 
"I hope nothing you have heard today will dissuade you from getting active in politics," he said to the students in the audience. "There is a definite opportunity for everyone here to make a real difference." 



Experts Jo discuss "At?h~Lipers 
By SARAH J. HILTZ . three lectures focusing on dif-. 'Kara. Keimedy is the director News Wrirer • ferentaspects of the qis.ea§e, <:i!ii;o' of Patient and Family Services Doctor Martin Rhys Farlow at the National Alzheimer's In celt;~bration p(~ational ha;; been on tM dil'tl"e~orxof the Association. During her tenure Alzheim~r·s Disease Month, N c\.tional Institute on Aging she has developed three publi­Notre Dame,,js sponsoring a Alznehne(~ Disease Re~earch . cations, and she eurrently over· research summit featuring some' Center Clinical Core at the sees a national demonstration of the na:tion~s top exper~ on Un,iver~ity of ln-!:l.ianaSc~ool9f <:ji'study examhiing models to the disease. ·.i' ..••.•. . . Medicine sin,c~.19!}~ .•. (.1.~~ c't.... e.ffe~_;~vely connect famil!es with 
Participants will ree~ive up-~.,. director of.theAlZhet#er:,~;\fieeded services;· ik 
to-date information on the Clinic sincel988. ..·..... _•..... •· ..•·. Kennedr,will be speaking at demographics of dementia, theL He is also professor and vice• lr15 p.m, about the associa· current research agenda, and·· chairman ?f research at th~ ~9n'spl~ns for the 21st century. new advances in the t:reattnentr• departmeritof neurology~ Hei.S ,,~;/All events will take place 
0

of the disease .. ···· " ·····.··.·.··• . curren~ly serrinf:f o · the .t?mo:rrovv in . the Jor~~n Today'~ events n~giti at noon Governor's Task :Fo ori Auditorium of ihe College'of withon~site registration ;md Alzheimer'.s ·.·. Pise~se, •• an~. ~usiness{\.dn~J~istration. The continue with a videotaped ffies-Helated. Senile Dementia/·· summit isfree and open to the sage of forme~ ~].'S.t. ~a~y Nancy Farlo'V~~ 2 .P·1U~. sp~~ch. 'YHI ~l'l•. t:,, }?pbliQ; <~;J:IP pr~·registration is Reagan at 1 p;in>d,\;:ikiiJiik on -neV\{trendsiti~lie trea.ttnent · encouraged. To pre-register, 
The summ~t,.:~Z:~~iJ?;~~s.,~~t\; of~~rime~::~~~ase; .. ·JliR';;-····•··· ....call ~~~,~4121. 

Please recycle The Obseruer. 

Tomorrow, Tuesday, November 18, 1997 For time and location of meeting, call: 1-8041 NDLGS Group Advisors: Fr. Tom Gaughan, C.S.C 
Sr.Mary Louise Gude, C. S.C. 
All Meetings are private and confidential. 
Drawing conclusions ... 

The Observer/Jeff Hsu 

A
nnamaria Petrioli Tofani (left), director of the Uffizi Gallery in Florence, gave a lecture Friday. In "The Drawing as an Instrument to Study the Past," the art scholar described the gallery, which regularly exhibits the world's finest collection of Italian Renaissance painting. Tofani specializes in 16th century Tuscan drawings. 

Ignatiev to speak on Irish-American plight 
Special to The Observer 
Noel Ignatiev, historian and author of the controversial book "How the Irish Became White," will give a lecture titled "Running the Film Backwards: Ethnics and Whites in the Making of America," today at 7 
p.m. in the Hesburgh Library auditorium. 
lgnatiev holds a doctoral degree in history from Ilarvard University and teaches there at the W.E.B. DuBois Institute for African-American Studies. I-Ie also edits the journal "Race Traitor." 
In addition to his teaching and research, he worked for more than 20 years in steel mills, farm equipment plants and machine-tool and electrical parts factories across the nation. some of them in northwest Indiana. 

When a recent interviewer asked him to summarize "How the Irish Became White," Ignatiev said, "In Ireland the Catholics were victims of oppression very much like we call racial oppression in America. My book is about how, in America, the Irish gained the rights of citizens in the white republic and thus were trans­formed from victims of racial oppression into enforcers of racial oppression." 
lgnatiev's lecture, which is free and open to the public, is being sponsored by Notre Dame's English department as one of its Wards Phillips series. 
Your voiee ean be heard. 




Viewpoint.I@nd.edu 

Heterosexuality!Ho1nos~w;Ttt11ity -Another Perspec~·t.ive ­
~\tit.. 

Join Rev. Richard A MgQ(Jrmick, S.J., a moral theologian at·"ilJ:~ Univeristy of" Notre Dame, as he dbwrisses the issue of sexualityand Christianity. 
Tuesday, November 18 
7:00 p~m. Library Loiinge 
Refreshments will be pr()vided! 
Sponsored by;Badin, Breen Phillips,!i"Carroll, ..:'' \m;t~": Qcwanaugh, Farley, Keenan, Knott, Lewis, Lyons, l'\' '"Morrissey, Pangborn, Pasquerilla West, and Zahin Halls 

Monday, November 17, 1997 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
• WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
Survey: Teens view race differently than adults 
NEW YORK 
Nearly nine out of 10 black teen-agers said racism has little impact on their day-to-day lives, according to a Time-CNN poll released Sunday. But the survey also found more than half of all teen-agers-62 percent of blacks and 58 whites -believe racism is "a big problem." Specifically asked about racism in their own lives, 89 percent of black teen­agers said racism was "a small problem" or "not a problem at all." When asked about discrimination, 23 percent of black teen­agers. compared with 16 perc~nt of whites, said they had been victimized because of their race. More than half of black adults ­53 percent -and 20 percent of white adults said they had bPen victims of discrimination. "Teen-agers are a mirror of our souls," soci­ologist and author Howard Pinderhughcs told Time. "They speak plainly about things that adults would like to hide. Political cor­rectness isn't an issue to them." The poll is part of a story called "Kids and Haec" in the Nov. 24 issue of Time, which will be on newsstands on Monday. Teen-agers' opti­mism was evident when they told pollsters that race relations will improve in the United States. 
Crew restores power on Mir 
MOSCOW 

The Mir crew on Sunday fired up systems that shut down after the trouble-plagued spaec station lost power as it tested a solar panel, a news agency reported. The power loss on f."riday caused the station's motion control computer to turn off. but it was restored to service the same day and all other systems were switched back on Sunday night, the lnterfax news agency said. lnterfax, quoting officials at Mission Control, said the crew fired thrusters on the Soyuz TM-26 rocket, which is attached to Mir, to keep the station in the proper orientation and the solar panels faced the sun while the com­puter was down. At the Space Center in Houston, NASA spokesman Ed Campion said on Saturday that most of the major systems, including the main oxygen generator and the carbon-dioxide removal system, had remained off while the station regained power. Campion said the crew -Anatoly Solovyev, Pavel Vinogradov and American David Wolf-had not been in any danger. "I would not characterize it as a big deal," Campion said. "The Hussians have had these kind of power failures before and they're familiar with thr. way to recover from them." The new solar panel was added Nov. 6 dur­ing a six-hour spacewalk by the two Hussians. With the improvement, Mir was back to nearly full power for the first time in months. 

The Associated Press 
BAGHDAD 

Saddam Hussein stressed Sunday that Iraq "does not seek conflict" with the United States and expressed hope that a solution to the crisis could be worked out, even as officials 
,........,~I"P',.h ordered citizens to be Uillllilli!llllliiillllilli'.. prepared for a possi­ble U.S. air attack. 
Saddam, who pro­voked the standoff by expelling American p.? members of the U.N. weapons inspection team, met with his Cabinet on Sunday and said he hoped a conflict could be averted. 
He praised other Arab countries for opposing the use of military action in the crisis. lie did not, however, signal any willingness to compromise on the controversy over American inspectors. 
"Iraq docs not seek conflict with the United States and if there is a solution to this crisis ... we would be happy," he said in a statement carried by the Iraqi News Agency. 
Iraqi Foreign Minister Mohammed Saeed al-Sahhaf said the use of force "has proven that it does not lead to solutions, but to a complication of mat­ters." His remarks were aired on Iraq television and carried by Egypt's Middle East News Agency. 
The United States on Sunday pressed forward with its military buildup, send­ing the· aircraft carrier USS George Washington through the Suez Canal toward the Persian Gulf. 
Meanwhile, Iraq ordered Baghdad hospitals to evacuate non-emergency patients in preparation for a possible 
U.S. air attack. It was not clear how many people weuld be removed. 
Hassan Abdel Jabar, a doctor at Baghdad Central Hospital, said the hos­pital would only accept emergency cases "because we are expecting a strike by the Americans." 
Thousands of Irar.J_i civilians flocked to Saddam's palaces in Baghdad and industrial installations around the capi­tal to join other people serving as human shields. 
Kuwait and Syria, which supported strikes against Iraq during the 1991 Persian Gulf War, said they were opposed to the use of force in the cur­rent standoff, which began on Oct. 29 when Iraq decided to expel American weapons inspectors working for the United Nations. 
"We do not support any military action against Iraq," said Kuwait's for­eign minister, Sabah al-Ahmed al­Sabah. 
Kuwait usually is unsparing in its crit­icism of Iraq, which invaded the emi­rate in 1990, triggering the Gulf War. 
Syrian Defense Minister Mustafa Tlass told al-llayat, a London-based newspaper: "All Arab countries are in solidarity with Iraq." 
At the end of the 1991 war, the United Nations ordered Iraq to destroy its weapons of mass destruction and sent in a multinational team of inspec­tors to monitor Iraqi compliance. 
Last month, Iraq asserted that the American inspectors were spies intent on prolonging U.N. economic sanctions imposed after the Kuwait invasion. Though the Security Council warned of consequences if Iraq expelled the moni­tors, Iraq went ahead with the move Thursday, deepening fears of a military strike. 
Richard Butler, the chief U.N. weapons inspector, warned in an inter­view with CNN that Iraq could resume building biological weapons within a week. 
In Baghdad, fuel rationing forced 
U.N. monitors overseeing an oil-for­food program to halt their work Sunday. 
The monitors, who were unable to drive to work, said they expect to send teams out Monday after they secure fuel supplies. 
The tightly monitored program allows Iraq to sell $2 billion in oil for six months in exchange for food and other humanitarian goods. 

1MrM!41WtfNiMIUD 
AMEX: Dow 672.62 +5.76 
]ONES 
Nasdaq: 1583.51

7542.48 

+24.26 
NYSE: 486.06 +5.37 


S&P 500: Composite 
928.35 Volume: 
+84.72 + 11.69 742,058,380 BIGGEST PERCENTAGE GAINERS 
COMPANY TICKER %CHANGE SGAIN PRICE 
Molten Metal Tee MLTN 41.03% +0.500 1.719 Full House Resert FHRI 39.71% +0.844 2.969 PC411 lnc-UTS PCFRU 33.33% +1.000 4.000 lnsituform East INEI 30.00% +0.750 3.250 Concordia Pa·ADR CPLNY 28.57% +0.500 2.250 
BIGGEST PERCENTAGE LOSERS 
Manhattan Bagels BGLS 56.67% ·1.594 1.212 Semiconductor LA SLIC 40.63% ·1.212 1.782 Gold Reserve Corp. GDLR 36.77% n/a 2.875 Uniroyal Tech-WT UTCIW 33.33% ·1.000 2.000 Gold Fields·ADR GLDFY 28.28% ·5.125 13.000 

Hungarians vot~ to ac£ept NATO invitation 
The Associated Press "With Hun a,ryj?ini}lg the battleground of ~om-Socialist government cam­
NA':f,Q, .. ·. ra,~i~gin~j" ·· g enipi~es and ideolo"T paigned intensely to stir 
Bbi>APEST Prime Mi .. . ..... yula Horn interest, seeking to ensure 
Hungarian vot~rs .oter-sai4; /'In. tl1i~ ~9H.t1~f ·L i,!Pi?.l'h~ i& ¢U[retl~ mezybers: th&.t at least 25 percent of whehningly accepted people hlive'•'nevef ·· '?!tli_e: North.Atlantic. the electorate turned out-NATO's invitation.to niem-ask~d .~~.. wa~~:--..}te~~tO.rga.l1~~.ati.~··1:l... ex....-: a requirement for the bership Sunday ib a show ·· ed Jo joi#' .... toe;:;> tende.d lnvitatlons>this resultsto be binding. of support the government "~his is ~ fantastic s~II1I¥tJrt.? HuJ;l~ar~ and The country was blan­hoped would conVince cur~. result ~~ld; g!ldiqg ·· tyvo (!.t]1er::former Sqyiet-keted with placards pro­rent alliance members that that t ..···-· es;, vote "far ijloc nations: the Czech claiming "Fateful Decision the cost ofexpansil:!n is ex¢eeM4i;:tlJ.¢~;t~eQ:tatiQJ;lS ... irR~pt~lJ.}ic .and.·.~ol~nd; -Nov. 16" and «Yes to juStifiable. of his Socialist govern.: H~ngary w~s th~oill,¥ one NATO." Budapest was 
With99.5 perce9t of.the ment, whi<:IJ; ;ha~;.ca111.7c. Ju•····ol•·.•a··pr•.J.l·•·v·~.o···.tt.~e.:.··'ffill:~~S~,.~Q.ll:;~PP~.. decked out as if for festivi­
votes counted, election paigned heavily for it; .. ·. ""' "· •.. ties, with red, yellow and officials said 85.3 percent Hungari~9 President ·. Firs~ h?\\'ev~l"· Hurigar~. blue· city flags hung on all
1

of balli)ts supported NATO ·Arpad G(')encZ;~hanked'vot-' ian 'leaders had .to fight' main streets. membership and14.7 per-ers, saying ov~rst<tte tel~" voter apathy, vvhic~ has Voters faced a simple cent were opposed. Nearly vision tlJ.at t~e .cpuntry::s plagu~g the country since question: "Do you agree 50 percent Of Hurigary's 8 ... members]1ip in NA'J'O "will reform communists led that the Republic of million~ligil}Ie vqters par~ .• excJ~d,e PQ$Sibiijty of~ gl[ry to free elections Hungary should guarantee W::ipated, the National great '' in unstable 990. · ·.. its security by joining Election Center said. central weeks; the NATO?" 

:·;:tJ,'" .. 
----~~­

page 6 The Observer • NEWS Monday, November 17, 1997 
II ENVIRONMENTAl BEAT 


Dorms compete to saye energy 


By JENNIFER COLEMAN News Writer 
The Dorm Energy Conser­vation Competition. sponsored by the Students for Environmental Action (SEA). is well on its way to completion. 
The competition is designed to raise awareness of environ­mental issues on campus. At the end of this month, the ener­gy used in the dorms in October will be compared to that of November, and the residence hall with the greatest percent­age drop in energy use per per­son will win the campus-wide competition. The winning dorm will be awarded both a plaque that will hang in the dorm and an undetermined allotment of acreage of rain forest will be purchased in its name . 
• RUSSIA 
"It's easy to forget the need to save energy while living on campus. A lot can be done to help reduce the problem, though, by raising awareness," stated Erin Potempa, vice-presi­dent of SEA. 
The competition is running in conjunction with the Countdown to Kyoto, a global summit taking place in December. At the summit, countries will commit to reduce carbon dioxide emissions and global warming. 
As a campus environmental group, the mission statement of SEA is to "strive to inform our­selves, our campus, and our surrounding community about environmental concerns through education and service." 
Led by co-presidents Shannon Glynn and Andy Wiemer, ~he group has walked in support of farm animals, petitioned to stop logging in the national forests, and participated in the Defending the Forest Workshop in northwest Pennsylvania. SEA combines activism and fun as a way to influence people to actively care for the environ­ment. 

Future activities are planned well into the rest of the school year, along with weekly Sunday evening meetings in the Center for Social Concerns. The pre­sent competition is sponsored by SEA with the campus Environmental Coalition, a union of Recyclin' Irish, Terra Club, and Irish Outdoors. 
For more information on SEA and the Dorm Energy Conservation Competition, e­mail nd.sea.l @nd.edu. 


Clinton visits Russia as part of goodwill tour 
Associated Press 

AKADEMGORODOK, Russia 
independence have eluded Siberia since the Soviet Union col­lapsed, Vladimir Mikhailovich Alexandrov told Hillary Rodham Clinton on Sunday. 

Corruption hasn't, he said. Or "chaos," added his wife, Olga. Americans visiting the republics should tour historic landmarks to "understand Russia's soul," Alexandrov suggested. 
"Which is already lost," said his wife. 
The conversation Sunday in the Alexandrovs' modest apartment didn't exactly fit the forward-looking, opti­mistic theme of Clinton's five-nation goodwill tour of the former Soviet Union. But the first lady duly sought to steer the exchange toward the future. 

Akademgorodok, meaning "Academic Township," was once the Soviet brain­trust, funded by the government. Now, that government is gone and the new one is struggling and riddled ith cor­ruption, problems President Boris Yeltsin has said he is trying to fix. 
"The scientific process and democra­cy have a lot in common," Clinton tried to reassure an audience of specialists at the Hall of Scientists earlier Sunday. "Both ask that you sacrifice today for a better tomorrow. Both demand patience, stamina and creativity. Both require faith. I have that faith." The older generation does not share it, and younger Russians are not sure of their faith in the new system, either, the Alexandrovs' daughters, both English teachers. told Clinton. 
Helen, 31, said Americans are future-oriented, while, "We are very, very past-oriented, especially our par­ents." 
Her sister, Svetlana, 35, said she and her husband are "somewhere in the 

DIRECTOR OF HuMAN LIFE INTERNATIONAL PRo-LIFE I PRo-FAMILY INSTITUTE 
SPEAKS ON: 

''FUNDAMENTAL 
PRINCIPLB:S OF
;;:r

... ~ .... 
middle" of the debate. "We can't just decide whether things are getting worse or better." 
The Alexandrovs are typical of the highly educated, middle-class residents of this academic enclave. Vladimir Alexandrov draws a pension but con­tinues to work as head of a lab at the Institute of Mathematics. His wife is a retired reference librarian who also receives a pension. 
Several times during the hour-long visit to the family's apartment, the first lady tried to point the talk forward. "What can people do?" she asked. 
But the discussion kept drifting back to the Alexandrovs' belief that even with its problems, the old way ­Soviet rule -represented order. 
"The reforms, they brought 
about chaos," said Mrs. Alexandrov. 

Summer Service Projects '98 
."Nobody knows 
What art J&!L doing next summer?
when things will Info Nights at the CSC: Nov.3 at 5:30pm 
Nov. 19 at 6pm Dec. 2 at 5:30pm 

ct•rc-'a' 
SOCIAL 
CONCERNS 

settle down." 
The family's apartment complex has suffered eight robberies in the past year, one of them in the Alexandrovs' basement. Crime, he said. spreads to the upper reaches of Russian govern­ment. 
Daughter Svetlana .said the new sys­tem is good in many ways -life is more modern, for example. Her boys, Steven, 12, and Georgie, 9, who are proficient on the Internet, surprised Mrs. Clinton with a picture of her that they had downloaded. 
The first lady seemed to genuinely enjoy her visit over tea and homemade cookies, giving her aides an exaggerat­ed frown when they said it was time to go. 
-8 weeks of service-learning -11\ree elective Theology credits -$1700 Tuition Scholarship 
Applications ue available at the CSC-apply now! Deadline: Jan 23rd (rolling acceptances) (Dec. 2 for studer.ts abroad Spring '98) 
Questions? Call Erika at4-1494 


~' 
'·


CHRISTIAN ACTIVISM''' 
HLI (HUMAN LIFE INTERNATIONAL) IS THE LARGEST PRO-LIFE I PRO-FAMILY ORGANIZATION IN THE WORLD 
November I7 at 8pm 
SAM MARY's Cou£GE
in the LaFortune Ballroom 
o·~ A~.DroR~uM 

llckels on IDle cllheSc*tt May's College Box Olllce i1 O'l.c:a9*1 Al.dclllm. open 9am.-5 p.m. Monday -Ftlday. Oedlcard Oldln by phone: 219/284-4626 


Monday, November 17, 1997 
The Observer • NEWS 

• EGYPT 
Associated Press 
CAIRO 

Kuwaiti Foreign Minister Sabah al-Ahmed al-Sabah said Sunday his country does not sup­port military action against Iraq over the latest standoff with the United Nations. 
Al-Sabah also said that Iraqi President Saddam Hussein should comply with the Security Council's resolutions. 
"We do not support any mili­tary action against Iraq," said al­Sabah, also Kuwait's deputy prime minister, after a meeting with Egyptian President Hosni Mubarak. 
"But we ask who is responsible for this and if there will be a mil­itary incursion, won't it be harmful for Iraq and its neigh­bors?" he told reporters. 
The Kuwaiti Cabinet also issued a statement Sunday urg­ing a diplomatic solution to the problem "so that the area could be spared the dangers of tension and instability and the Iraqi peo­ple would not be subjected to more misery and suffering." 
The United Nations placed economic sanctions on Iraq after the country invaded Kuwait in 1990. The United Nations says it will not lift those sanctions until 
U.N. weapons inspectors certify that Iraq has dismantled its weapons of mass destruction. 
That mandate has been jeop­ardized by Iraq's expulsion Friday of the inspection teams' American members, prompting the other inspectors to leave Iraq in protest. 
Al-Sabah said he delivered a message from Kuwait's emir, Sheik Jaber al-Ahmed al-Sabah, to Mubarak on the crisis. Later he will travel to Damascus to deliver a similar message to President Hafez Assad. 
Egypt was a key partner in the U.S.-led international coalition that liberated Kuwait from Iraqi occupation in 1991, and it still has no diplomatic relations with Baghdad. But recently it signed contracts to sell food to Iraq under the oil-for-food deal. 
Al-Sabah arrived here Saturday for consultations with senior Egyptian leaders on the standoff ahead of a similar visit by Iraq's deputy prime minister Tariq Aziz. 
Asked if the United States had asked to use Kuwait's territory for a possible attack on Iraq, al­Sabah replied: "It does not need that. It has enough forces in the sea and it will not ask permis­sion from anybody." 
Egyptian Foreign Minister Amr Moussa also told reporters "there must be a political solu­tion (to the Iraq crisis) and work should intensified to reach a result that will avert more deter­ioration." 
Iraq's ambassador to the Arab League, Nabil Najim, said Aziz is expected in Cairo on Tuesday as a part of a tour of Arab coun­tries. 
Najim told The Associated Press that Aziz is seeking Arab support for an Iraqi proposal "to open a dialogue with the United Nations" on the crisis. He did not elaborate. 
Most Arab countries have expressed opposition to using military force against Iraq. Syrian Defense Minister Mustafa Tlas -whose government joined the anti-Iraq coalition in the Gulf War -spoke out against using force in an inter­view published Sunday in the Arabic daily Al-Hayat. 





Campus Bible Study 
Meeting of the 
Interfaith Campus Bible Study 
will take place on 

Tuesday, November 18, 1997 7:ooPM Conference Room Badin Hall Campus Ministry Office 
Come and share insights on Mark's Gospel, chapters 11 and 12. Bring your own Bible, if you need one it will be provided. A period of Fellowship will follow the regular meeting. ALL students are invited and 
welcomed. 

---·~-------­
--~-----­
The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT Monday, November 17, 1997 
HEART BIGGER... " 

-Mother Teresa 
COME LIGHT A CANDLE IN PRAYER 
Al.L ARE WELCOME TO JOIN US IN A PILGRIMAGE FOR 
People for Equality, Action, Community, and Education 
Ends in TUESDAY, Meet at the Basilica NOV. 18TH the GROTTO with a prayer 
•


at 6:30PM. serv1ce. 

Monday, November 17, 1997 The Observer • NEWS page 9 
• VATICAN CITY 
Pope appeals to bishops of Americas 
Associated Press 
VATICAN CITY 
Determined to bring back Catholics who have left the church and win new faithful, Pope John Paul II on Sunday 
appealed to bishops from the Americas to work with fresh mis­sionary zeal. 
John Paul, his voice still strained from 

a cold that forced him to cancel a public appearance a few days earlier, celebrated Mass at St. Peter's Basilica to open a monthlong special meeting, or synod, of churchmen from North and South America. 
The nearly 300 representa­tives will discuss concerns close to the pope's heart, particularly how to reach out to Catholics who have left the church. 
Many of those erstwhile Catholics, especially in North America, have been alienated by the pope's refusal to ease the Vatican's prohibition of artificial birth control. abortion and divorce. Others. particularly in South America, have been attracted by the vibrancy of evangelical sects. 
Another question to be explored, and one raised by the pope Sunday, is why North America, with its prominent Protestant culture, has more wealth and better developed democratic institutions than its southern neighbors, deeply root­ed in Catholicism. 
Addressing the bishops, arrayed before him in their gold vestments and white, two­peaked hats, John Paul noted that it was the first such synod of the Americas since Columbus' voyage to the "New World" opened the way for legions of missionaries on both continents. 
"The Church, in fact, enrichmg itself with the experience of five centuries of evangelization. intends to prepare itself to face the great challenges of the third millennium," the pope said. 
"The objective is to diffuse ever more the evangelical mes­sage" and to help "knock down the walls of separation between man and man, nation and nation," John Paul continued. 
"Christians, while loving and honoring their own countries, arc men and women 'without borders,' because the church community does not know any boundaries of race, language and culture," he said. 
As if to make his point, the pope switched effortlessly from his usual Italian to Spanish, English, French and Portuguese during his sermons to use the major languages of the Americas. 
In a message delivered after the Mass, John Paul said the church is moving toward the new millennium "with renewed missionary zeal." 
Five centuries after Columbus and at the threshold of the new millennium, the pope said it was very important "to mentally review the way taken by Christianity throughout the whole extent of those lands." 
• MEXICO 





Police arrest alleged killer 
Associated Press So are a lot of people in 
Onalaska. 

NEW ORLEANS 'This is basically a retirement 
Police say Daniel Blank told community where people come them that he was a serial killer to get away from the city and who stabbed, bludgeoned or crime," Mayor Jeanne Ann shot six people -bosses, Byrd told The (New Orleans)
neighbors, and customers -to Times-Picayune. "We go with­pay for his gambling habit. . out murders for 20 years. He 
Folks in the piney woods seemed like a nice man." town of Onalaska, Texas, say Blank was arrested Friday in Blank told them he'd moved Onalaska on one murder there last summer to get him­charge and was taken to St. self, his wife and their four kids John the Baptist Parish jail. away from crime. Sheriffs of The sheriffs of St. John, St. the three parishes where James and Ascension parishesBlank, 35, lived until a few say he will be charged with six 
months ago, say he has admit­murders and two attemptedted killing six people and trying murders. to ill two others since October Victims include: 1996. Most were well off, and -Victor Rossi, 41, beaten to 
in their 60s and 70s. death at his home in St. Amant 
on Oct. 27, 1996. Blank had worked at Rossi's car repair shop. 
-Barbara Bourgeois, 58, of Paulina, stabbed to death March 18 at her home, a quar­ter-mile from Blank's. 
-Lillian Phillipe, 71, of Gonzales, stabbed to death in her home April 9. Blank bought car parts from the store that Phlllipe's husband had started. 
-Sam Arcuri, 76, and Louella Arcuri, 69, bludgeoned to death in their LaPlace home 
May 9. _, -Joan Brock, 55, beaten to death in the back yard of her LaPlace home May 14. Blank had worked at Brock's hus­band's car repair shop in Reserve. 


''Attitude is more port{fnt than factR It is more important than the thafl;, educgtion, , than i, money, than 
··:·-:;;{¥f:::::r:::::il·=·=: 

circumstances, t fail-llres, than suc~esses, than what other 
people ~h,iitk ay or do. It is more important than 
appearance, giftf!tJness or skilL. It will r~nxJ.ke or break a 
compan'Yc~:.~f!: ch~r 
a choice;f·yery d the day.i::>We can canido ·~$imlpla'j) attitud . . ife i$ react to tt~ ·We ar 
,,,...... 

·+ •• a home. The remarkable thing is we have regardtng the,attitude we ~ill embrace for change the inevitable. The only thing we the one string we have, and that is our % wha,t. happens to .you and 90% how you 
charge, ofour attitudes. " 
-·CharlesSwindoll 

What's your attitude? 
Meet DC Systems on November 17th at 7:00p.m. in the LaFortune Student Center Dooley Room. Refreshments provided. Interviews November 18 and 19. 


e 
DC SYSTEMS 
INFORMATION MANAGEMENT 


DC SYSTEMS DC SYSTEMS DC SYSTEMS 
SOFTWARE CONSULTING EDUCATION 
Management Consulting • Technical Education • Business Products 






VIEWPOINT 
pagelO Monday, November 17, 1997 
THE OBSERVER 
NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1997-98 General Board 
Edi<or-in-Chief 
Brad Prendergast 
Managing Editor Business Manager 
Jamie Heisler Tom Roland 
Assistant Managing Editor 
Dan Cicha1ski News Editor ............................ Heather Cocks Advertising Manager............................. Jed Peters Viewpoint Editor ....................... Kelly Brooks Ad Design Manager .................... Jennifer Breslow Sports Editor .................................. Mike Day Production Manager ......................... Mark DeBoy Accent Editor........................... Joey Crawford Systems Manager ....................... Michael Brouillet Saint Mary's Editor ........................ Lori Allen Controller............................................ Kyle Carlin Photo Editor ........................... Katie Kroener 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the srudenrs of rhe Universiry of Notre Dame du Lac and Sainr Mary's College. It does nor necessarily reflecr rhe policies of the ~tdminisrration ofeither insrirmion. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Edirorpin-Chief, Managing Editor, Assisram Managing Editor, News Editor. Viewpoint Editor, Sports Editor, Accent Editor, Saint Mary's Editor, Photo Editor, and Associate News Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Columns present the views of the amhors, and not neces­sarily those ofThe Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of rhe Notre Dame/Saim Mary's community and to all readers. The free expression of varying opinions through lerrers is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 
Editor-in-Chief  631-4542  Business Office::  631-5313  
Managing Editor  631-4541  Advertising  631-6900/8840  
News/Photo  631-5323  Systems  631-8839  
Sports  631-4543  Office Manager  631-7471  
Accem/Sainr Mary's  631-4540  Fax  .  631-6927  
Day Editor/Viewpoint  631-5303  Viewpoint E-Mail  Viewpoint. I @nd.cdu  
General Information  631-7471  Ad E-Mail  observer@darwin.cc.nd.edu  


• JEDI MIND TRICKS 
Notre Dame Looks Like Notre Dame Again 
I have to give credit where credit is due. Notre Dame dominated LSU on the field, on the sidelines and in the stands. It took a while, but Bob Davie finally rec­ognized the team he was coaching. It looked like Notre Dame once again. 
The pedigree of Bob Davie's "Wrecking 
Kevin Patrick 
Crew" defense and Greg Mattison's 
Michjgan experience, was supposed to 
spawn a defense that strikes fear into 
the hearts of opponents. Until Saturday, 
the only fear our defense inspired was in 
our fans. On Saturday, those same fans' 
only worry was a fear that Greg Mattison 
may spontaneously combust in his cele­
bration. 
Offensively, Jim Colletto's scheme and 
the players dominating performance 
were as daring and inspiring as Luke 
Skywalker using the force to blow up the 
Death Star. That was Notre Dame foot­
ball -punishing runners blasting 
through gaping holes provided by our 
mammoth offensive line. Even with Ken 
Barry missing a·number of lead blocks 
early in the game, Clement Stokes pum­
meled the LSU Kittens into submission. 
And if anyone knows the whereabouts of 
Autry Dancin', leave him be, because 
Autry Denson is back, and I hope he's 
here to stay. This annihilating perfor­
mance even took all of last week's pan­
demonium out of Ron Powlus dropping 
to his knees to seal the victory. I don't 
think anybody is complaining though. 
Speaking of knees, who needs knees? 
Bobby Howard must have borrowed 
Superman's cape for this game. He 
played like a caged animal -starved for . days -and unleashed on those cower­
ing Tigers. All this and he is returning from ligament damage to his knees. At least he has knees. Melvin Dansby has no knees. Based on his relentless pressure, maybe we can surgically remove his ankles. Then he would be unstoppable! Heck, most of the Notre Dame team was too injured to practice before the game. Based on their performance, 1hope they all stay injured. 
LSU's Kevin Faulk was the best run­ning back Notre Dame has faced all year. And while he individually had a fine day, Notre Dame did what they had to do and kept him from breaking a big play. There has probably not been a better defensive performance against this guy in two years and that speaks volumes for the entire defense. Lacking a running game LSU was forced to pass, and Tyler could Jose a throwing competition against interhall players. The defense's unend­ing pressure left this guy running faster than a 19-year old from Bridget's after seeing their rector. 
Even the special teams had a stellar day. Allen Rossum was the type of play­maker Notre Dame has been in need of all season. Clearly he has earned the nickname: "Awesome Rossum." However, while credit must be given where credit is due, what was Hunter Smith's deal? He has been our best per­former all year, but his one punt was a shank. He must have taken some of those "stupid pills" 1wrote of after the Purdue game. 
While that may have led to LSU's only score, there was no way the players were going to fold -especially with 5,000 of the truest Notre Dame fans behind them. What a moment that was with three minutes to go -"in a stadium that more closely resembled the Grand Canyon rather than Death Valley"-and 5,000 raucous Notre Dame fans were chanting clear as a bell, "We Are NO." 
I could not help but think of a com­ment made by a recruit, Adam McConathy, who visited Notre Dame and chose LSU over Notre dame this falL After his visit he mocked the Notre Dame crowd's lack of enthusiasm and spoke glowingly of the rabid LSU support. Well Mr. McConathy, where were those faith­ful LSU fans Saturday? Sucking eggs probably. Notre Dame took their heart and shoved it down their throats. 
The LSU fans were leaving so early and often you would have thought they were giving out free tobacco in the parking lot. They had to lit­erally turn out the lights to get /_ the Notre Dame fans to leave. That was a moment for every­one to savor. 
Excuses have been made all season for the poor per­formances. "The players aren't talented enough." "The players need to exe­cute better." Excuses are for losers. We saw how capable this team is. When the coaches and players arc on the same page, not even the Hebel Alliance Jed by the Emperor himself can stop us. 
There were three ugly drops in the first half, and the only explanation is a laek of concentration, which leads to the buzz word for this week: Letdown. This is the final home game for fifth-year seniors who have been to the mountain-top with the victory over FSU, but also have seen how quickly things can change (pick your moment). 
Hon Powlus has endured a host of injuries and more un-Notre Dame behav­ior than I could ever wish on my worst enemy. And this is what he gets for giv­ing his all for Notre Dame? I can see why he runs off the field immediately fol­lowing the games, but I want to ask him to be bigger than his critics. Salute those of us who always have and always will support you. We have also endured a lot, so as we stand and salute you in your final home game, come back to the Notre Dame family and let us know how much you appreciate our ~upport. 
• IJOONESBURV GARRY TRUDEAU 
7ff& PROEJUM 15/V&!?IPN'T INV!36TCVR CA=t-1~RV&S. OUR PROJ!3CT/ON5INauPS? THAT !N'T!fi<&5T. 507l«JP/li8(5 OF PAYROl-L-C4M& OUTOF OV£f?J-It:A/?... \. 
Kevin Patrick is a third year JD/lv!BA student. In eight days "Chasing Amy" will be released on video. Rent it. He can be e-mailed at: kevin. d.patrick.16@nd. edu. 
The opinions expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessar­ily those ofThe Observer. 
• QuoTE OF THE DAY 
"If
one part suffers every part suffers with it." 
-1 Corinthians 13:26 

VIEWPOINT
Monday, November 17, 1997 page 11 
• Our OF THE Tw!UGHT 
Emperor Nero Lives on in China: 
U.S. Policy Should Account For Torture, Persecution 
Imagine for a moment that you are that he rejects the "patriotic Church" sitting in your dorm room after mass and maintains communion with Rome. and talking with some friends on a There he is kept without desperately Sunday night. You are discussing the needed medical treatment. recent homily and its ramifications on And you? You are taken away and your life. Your faith isn't the only thing hung by your thumbs with wires. that you and your friends discuss. You You are then beaten with heavy rods, also talk of going out that weekend, the denied food and w:otter and shocked recent football game and politics -repeatedly with electr~c probes. specifically democracy. It is a pleasant Why? You are Christian. evening, and you all feel that peaceful Now, please tell me again why the 
United States should, or must, continue China's most favored nation status. Is it economic engagement -the idea that building up China economically will somehow create government respect for 
Brandon 
human rights and religious freedom? Is it because the rest of the world will not follow us? Please refresh my memo­
Williams 
ry. Capitalism does not automatically produce morality or humanity. In fact, without a moral base it often does the opposite. Men like James Madison and Plato would nod their heads in agree­
feeling one has after receiving commu­ment with this statement. Giving a bad nion. Now let us add one simple detail man money does not make him good. to the scene, a detail that instantly shat­It only creates a rich bad man, a more ters the peace of which I just spoke. You powerful bad man, a bad man far more with splintered. A replacement was simultaneously protest our nation's poli­live in China. difficult to stop. 
found and, as he hung by his thumbs, he cy concerning China while praying for Chinese soldiers kick down the door to The world will not follow us? Wrong. 
was beaten some more. This Bishop can those who are persecuted. The vigil can your room, beat you and arrest you for We are the only superpower left in the no longer hear. be coordinated not only on this campus praying without a permit. One of your world, and the mark of a true leader is In addition, a Chinese woman is limit­but on campuses across the country. Itfemale friends is nine months pregnant the courage to do what is right. Our ed in the number of children she is will be a thousand points of light revisit­with her second child. She is taken to a leadership status depends on this fact. 
allowed to have. If she becomes preg­ed, but it will be the light of this coun­dismal building that slightly resembles a A recent document signed by thousands nant one time more than what the gov­try's faithful youth engaged in one com­hospital. During the night she goes into of world parliamentarians attest to this. 
ernment allows she is forced to have an mon prayer. If you would be interested labor. Just as the crown of the infant's The document condemned aspects of abortion. Female children are aborted in participating in such a vigil, e-mailhead is exposed, a needle filled with the United States' foreign policy because far more than male children. me at Brandon.M. Williams.14 7@nd. edu.
formaldihydc is injected into the brain of a lack of respect for human rights. 
Contrary to what some contend, the If there is enough interest I will orga­through the soft spot of the child's head. China has more Christians in prison United States is taking no substantial nize this. If we proceed, our voice and Thirty minutes later. the baby girl dies than any other country. I would like to action against China. If economic our prayers will be heard. If not, then while her helpless mother watches in relate a few quick facts. Protestants are engagement has ever had any validity we must learn to cope with the silent terror. arrested and tortured for holding prayer as a theory that validity has been com­screams of the tortured and suppressedOne of your male friends, say a resi­meetings, preaching and distributing promised empirically over the last 16 as we pray and believe in a country thatdent of Morrissey, is also taken away. Bibles without state approval. "Wall slo­years. The business interests that are allows us to do so.
Unfortunately, his enthusiasm for gans" in China, put up by the police, served by our trade ties with China candemocracy and his faith has been well read "Catholics are not allowed to go to never outweigh the pain suffered by documented over the years. A few other areas and establish networks," 
people of faith. Catholics and other Brandon Williams is a junior history 
months ago he actually participated in a and "Get rid of illegal religious gather­Christians in this country cannot explain and philosophy major and a member ofmeeting to discuss a "Peace Charter" ings and activities." There are no free away their silence -especially when Student Senate and Campus Life that called for progress towards democ­dissidents left in China. 
faced by the One who makes us broth­Council. The examples related in this
ratization and respect for human rights. As mentioned in the anecdote above, 
ers and sisters with His children in column have been documented by vari­
He is sentenced to re-education through Roman Catholic priests and bishops are 
China. ous organizations including: Amnesty
hard labor for "disturbing the social imprisoned for celebrating mass without 
In 1989, college students rallied at International, Human Rights Watch and
order." In prison. the guards beat and official authorization. Masses are only 
Tianenmen square. They were massa­Family Research Council. Again. you
mutilate him terribly. Two years later, authorized when performed by priests cred, waving high our Declaration of can e-mail Brandon athe is released badly swollen. His testi­who are members of a government cre­Independence with models of our Statue Brandon.M. Williams.14 7@nd. edu.
cles have been crushed. and his entire ated "patriotic church" that swears alle­of Liberty clutched in their hands. It is The opinions expressed in this column body is covered with scars. giance to the Communist party. Priests 
time for college students in this nation are those ofthe author and not neces­
The priest who gave the mass is who reject this patriotic Church are sent to try, in some small way. to recipro­sarily those of The Observer. 
abducted and sent to a government to labor camps. One Bishop was beaten cate. I propose a one hour candlelightsponsored labor camp on the grounds for so long that the rod he was being hit vigil on Tuesday, Nov. 25. We can 

• lETTER TO THE EDITOR 



Raise A Shoe to Support Banning of Land Mines 
For those of us living in coun­tries such as the United States, it is difficult to grasp the horror caused by land mines. We walk around our beautiful campus free from the fear that one false step may literally mean the loss of life or limb. We cannot fath­om that mothers in a distant land such as Afghanistan arc taught that if they see their child mutilated or obliterated by a land mine, they cannot rush to help because there may be more nearby. We cannot comprehend a country such as Angola where 70 percent of the land is covered with land mines. 
There are over 110 million land mines scattered in 64 countries. None of them are in ours, so it is easy for us to for­get about. It is also easy to ignore that while 100,000 land mines are cleared annually, two to five million of them will be planted. This is easy to explain: Land mines arc very cheap to produce, very easy to deploy­some even from the air -and extremely expensive and haz­ardous to remove. Depending on whose statistics you choose to believe, every 15 to 22 min­utes a person is maimed or murdered by a land mine­mostly civilians, mostly chil­dren. We must never forget these facts. 
In the past year, 113 coun­tries have agreed to sign a legally binding treaty to ban the use of land mines. Nations that ratify this treaty have a decade to remove and destroy anti-per­sonnel mines. That is 10 whole years to get rid of a weapon that remains hidden and alive until accomplishing its task ­exploding, maiming, and killing. 
The late Diana, Princess of Wales, passionately cam­paigned to end the use of land mines. The 1997 Nobel Peace Prize was awarded to Jody Williams for her work with the International Campaign to Ban Land Mines. Pope John Paul II has called for a ban, and a broad coalition of Catholic organizations have initiated the "Catholic Campaign to Ban Land Mines." There is no ques­tion of morals or ethics on this issue. Land mines remain active long after war-time hos­tilities cease. Even the so­called "smart mines" which deactivate after a certain peri­od of time (although 10-15 per­cent malfunction and do not deactivate) are not smart enough to distinguish between combatants and children. There is no way to use these weapons responsibly. Land mines are simply wrong. 
Nonetheless, the United States is one of a handful of countries refusing to sign the treaty -along with Libya, Iraq, Cuba, China, Iran, and others. President Clinton and the Joint Chiefs of Staff have said that banning these devices would jeopardize the lives of U.S. sol­diers. This argument fails the test of logic: One third of all 
U.S. casualties in the Gulf War and in Vietnam were due to land mines. In view of this, the strongest group supporting the ban in the U.S. is the Vietnam Veterans of America Foundation. Furthermore, 15 retired U.S. generals, including Norman Schwarzkopf, have endorsed the ban. There is strong military support for end­ing land mine use. 
The treaty will be signed on Dec. 3-4 in Ottawa, Canada. The U.S. can choose to sign at that time or any time after. But the President will not sign unless he knows we want him to. In the United States, the people have a say in decision making. Let us exercise this right, look to a better future, and ban land mines -for this generation and for future gen­erations. 
The Vietnam Veterans of America have issued a chal­lenge to Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students. One of their regional directors recently revealed the horror he felt upon learning that in land mine infested countries -such as Bosnia, Afghanistan, and Angola-markets now supply single shoes, instead of pairs, for maimed land mine victims. He asked us to take advantage of our football team's nationill press coverage and raise a shoe during the national anthem at our last home game in memory of the victims of anti-personnel mines and in support of the ban. Let us meet this chal­lenge. But let us do more. When we raise a shoe, let us hold a hand over our hearts in memo­ry of the maimed and murdered 
U.S. soldiers and aspire to fulfill our country's highest ideals. 
On Nov. 22, we play West Virginia, and we commemorate the death of President Kennedy. He once challenged us to "ask not what your country can do for you, ask what you can do for your country." By support­ing the ban, you can do some­thing for your country -and the world. Until then, the senseless suffering will contin­ue. Four more have been killed or wounded as we have written this. Let us ban land mines and end the senselessness. 
Mike Deemer Helena Hofbauer Aine Skow Jen Jablonski Shawn Boz Maureen Lane Susie Grandin Keoni Kuoha Sarah Purge Rebekkah BrodhacJ<er November 16, 1997 
--~-~-~----~ 




On the trail of a killer 
The Jackal 
Directed by Michael Canton-Jones Starring Bruce Willis, Richard Gere, Sidney Poitier, and Diane Verona 

(our of five shamrocks) 
By JOE KRAUS Accent Movie Critic 
W
ell, Richard Gere is at it again. This time, he has help! (If you are confused. please allow me to explain.) After proving to the world that he cannot speak with a British accent in "First Knight," Gere made the logical decision to try to tackle an Irish accent in Michael Caton-Jones' "The Jackal." Gere failed just as miser­ably this time around. (Side note: He made Brad Pitt's accent in "The Devil's Own" sound convincing!) However, Gere was not the only one. There were characters o' plenty who affected all sorts of accents, namely Russian, and sounded just like American actors who were trying too hard. Surprise, sur­prise. 
Other elements of cheese appeared sporadically throughout the film. The dialogue and facial expressions were unintentionally comical. As a friend of mine, who watched the film with me, pointed out, "Richard Gere and Bruce Willis could have turned into John Black and Stefano Dimera from 'Days of Our Lives' at any moment!" The usu­ally capable Sidney Poitier could not even escape this script's traps. 
•
'Bean' IS a Bon1b 

Bean 
Directed by Mel Smith 
Starring Rowan Atkinson, 
Peter MacNicol, and Pamela Reed, 
zero 
(our of five shamrocks) 

By SARA BRANDON and MARTY HARRIS Accent Movie Critics 
M
r. Bean likes to grunt ... with a grunt here ... a grunt, grunt there ... here a grunt ... there a grunt ... everywhere a grunt, grunt. Like Mr. Bean ... grunt .. we do not have much to say ... grunt ... about the movie ... not that much to say that The Observer will print, that is. If you want our true opinion, stop us on the quad; as for now, we both merely despised "Bean." 
According to Sara, this is not the Bean of old. Originating in England, the American translation bites. Mr. Bean has been known to be funny in a 30 minute time slot but two hours is pushing it. Thirty minutes you leave with a smile; two hours you are in a psychi­atric ward grunting. 
The plot is the problem -there is none. Mr. Bean does not work well with a storyline -his strongsuit appears to be skits without connection, not a drama. The movie gives us Mr. Bean, security guard extrordi­naire. He is so annoying to his fellow Brits that they send him to America to reek havoc. In America, he 
However bad the dialogue was, the movie was still enjoyable. "The Jackal" is the story of an assassin (Bruce Willis) known only as The Jackal. who uses state­of-the-art technology and assumed names galore to carry out a hit on an impor­tant American target for a Russian Mafia leader. The 
U.S. and Russia do not know anything about The Jackal, other than the fact that he has some connection to a 
man named Declan Mulqueen (Hichard Gere), an imprisoned Irish Nationalist who has a past with The Jackal. Mulqueen, Agent Preston (Sidney Poitier), and a host of others spend the 

rest of the movie tracking down The Jackal before his assassination plans are carried out. 
The story is interesting enough. There are a few unpredictable plot 
twists that really did surprise me. There is also an interesting scone where Willis has to seduce a gay man connected with the assassination tar­get to gain information vital to tho mis­sion. This was an odd role to sec Willis in. ror all of you violence fans out there, there is plenty of that, so you probably would not mind seeing this movie. Tho action is not too bad either. Getting past the bad script and even worse accents proves the toughest part. 
All of the actors do a decent job. Willis has the part of a methodical, cold-blooded assassin down cold. lie is all business, shows no emotion save for a fierce tenacity and determination to get his job done. The powers that be behind this movie almost get you to believe that Richard Gere is a sincere, tough-guy, sniper, but once again. that gets ruined as soon as he opens his mouth. Diane Verona, who plays the Russian female agent does the best job of fill­ing a role without over­doing the melodrama and is the most believ­able character. Surprisingly, Sidney Poitier is the weak link. His character is right out of Danny Glover's "Lethal Weapon" per­formances, and not even the serious nature of the story line pre­vents Poitier from 
uttering useless one-liners the whole movie. 
Action and special effects arc the dri­ving force behind this movie. The sound track also helps create the nee­
this point we must shift the blame from Mr. Bean and grunting to the horrible supporting cast. Throw in Burt Reynolds as the mysteriously wealthy general who coughs up the $50 million from a governmental salary and apparently excellent investments and you have got yourself one heck of a movie! l hope Mr. Bean has a 

photo courtesy Universal P1ctures 
Richard Gere (left) and Sidney Poitier try to track dow.n the elusive killer known as "The Jackal." 
essary tension, especially when the dialogue makes the audience groan. The camera work is pretty good, but there are definitely some choppy tran­sitions between shots that surprised me. The most impressive thing about this film is the fact that it is shot on location. The scenery is something to note as well. 
As a final assessment, l have to say, nice try, not bad, but better luck next time. That sums it up. I liked the movie, but would not hold it up as any great cinematic accomplishment. Hichard Gere and Poitier saw to that. As for Hichard Gere, here is some advice I hope he takes: "You are from North America, and you speak like it. No one will believe anything else, so please stop trying!!!!" 

were denied. We just wanted a laugh; is that too much to ask from Mr. Bean and his friends? llalf the time we cried for David -where is a good cliff when you need one? We could go on and on .. grunt ... but it is the worst movie we have seen this year and hopefully we will save every Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College student $6.25. 
Our Hatings: 
Best Hair: David's daughter. ller valiant attempt at Molly Hingwald gone punk reached its peak at her hairstyle. 
Best outfit: Mr. Bean's navy­seal-meets-dishpan hands­meets-fruit-of-the-loom-break­into-the-art-museum-and-save­
photo courtesy Gramercy Pictures the-day ensemble. What can we Rowan Atkinson plays the blundering Brit Mr. Bean in the new comedy, "Bean." say? Mr. Bean is strangely attractive. NOT! 
speech prepared for the Academy Awards:  "I would  
like to ... grunt, grunt .... "  Best Line: Grunt.  
To cut to the chase, Bean ruins David's life and  
Whistler's Mother. David is left a shell of the bad actor  Best Song:  "Yesterday,"  as  rendered by the intoxi­ 

have been well. However, just when you think the pain is ending, David's daughter bites the dust on a Harley. These tearjerker moments are ill-suited for this juve­nile delight. 
You probably think we just don't appreciate body humor, physical comedy, and far fetched scenarios. No, no -we expected that and 
impersonates an art expert who will speak about the $50 million purchase of Whistler's Mother. Enter David, the LA art curator. 
Mr. Bean succeeds in driving David's wife out of the horribly decorated monstrosity that the Brady Bunch from the underworld calls home within minutes. At he once was. Though the movie is horrible there arc moments of laughter in which the tears are not from pain but from humor. Highlights include the David and Bean shower sequence and Mr. Bean's culturally mis­understood hand gestures. 
If Mr. Bean had stuck to mindless humor all would cated David and Bean. 
We would not recommend this movie to our worst enemy a.k.a. avoid it at all costs. This movie could be especially disturbing for Mr. Bean fans, who are rec­ommended to stick with his IIBO 30 minute spots. 

Football 
1997 

Notre Dame Lousiana State Autry Denson 
and the Irish offense turn in a nearly
24-6 

perfect effort 
K!:.!Y Stat 
Player of the Ga~e Quote of the Game dominating
The fitth~ranked 
Anyone wearing th~ "We kind of got our the Tigers. 
LSU rushing._ off_·_ense 
butts kicked. That
was held1o1&5 
Blue and Gdlg, ...·.··
yards underits.. aver~ 
was what I watch see page 2 
age. · 
L tsu coachGetifi 


Irish dominate LSU in convincing upset 
By KATHLEEN LOPEZ 
Assistant Sporrs Editor 
BATON ROUGE, La Some football experts say that in order to win on thP road. a t1~am must silence its opponent's fans. 
Notrn Damn did just that. By the time Clement Stokf~s rushed for the final Notrn Dame touchdown, tlw 80.556 fans that turned out for the showdown had dwindiNI to a few thousand. On Saturday, the Irish handPd thP Tigers a tough loss. 24-6. 
Wlwn tlw timn clock ran out, only the Notre Dame faithful rPmainPd. In what was supposed to be a one­sided ganw. thn Irish. were nearly perfect. 
"I felt WP got outplayed in nvery aspect of the gamn," LSU coach Gerry DiNardo said. "We kind of got our butts kicked. That was what I watched." 
The slats hint at the game being closer than the score revealed. Notre Dame managed to gain 20 first downs to LSU's 19. The possession time was equal as well with the Irish using up 30:34 compared to 29:26 used by the Tigers. 
"Wn walked off that field at Stanford -we lost four straight games," Notre Dame head coach Bob Davie said. "That was about as bad as it could get. We hung in there. We made improvement as a team. W1~ talked about it before the game that we were probably tlw only ones who really knew we made improvemrnt." 
Notre Damn's extra rest and relaxation allowed them to finn tune some of the many things which had plagued thn team the majority of the season. Davie commented on the improved health of the team as a whole. 
Notrl' Dame quickly exploded out of the blocks off a 4:1-yard rPturn on the opening kickoff by Allen Hossum. I.SU l'halknd up its first penalty on a face mask. giving Notre Dame an extra 15 yards to land tlwm on tlw LSU 35-yardlinn. 
Hon PowIus' 17-yard compll'tion to tight end Jabari llolloway sptup Autry Denson's nine-yard scamper to thn l'ndzone. 
The Observer/Brandon Candura 
A'Jani Sanders (5) celebrates one of his two interceptions with Allen Rossum. The Irish had plenty to celebrate on Saturday as they salvaged a season and put themselves back into bowl consideration. 
In what was supposed to be a one-sided contest, the Once again, the Irish scored on their possession by Irish turned the tables on the Tigers. LSU looked capping a 59-yard drive with a Scott Cengia field flustered in its opening sequence. only traveling 18 goal, boosting the team's lead to 10. yards in its own territory after Rondell Mealey's 16-The team would head into halftime with a large yard return. The Tigers should have evaded any lead of 17-0. The final touchdown of the half was ini­lrish threat with the help of the nation's best punter Chad Kessler. lie punted for a lackluster 32 yards. see GAME/ page 3 
• IRISH INSIGHT 


Win more than just a win for Davie 
BATON ROUGE, La Dame. into Tiger Stadimn amidst some of the 
I
f there is a single person that bene­After perhaps the worst last minute most hostile ~O,OOQ fans in college fited the most from Saturday's sur­of coaching in the history of college football, and Davie had them ready. prising upset over LSU, it is Bob football, relying on Allen Rossum's 4.3 Against Kevin Faulk and the fifth· Davie. speed to save a win over Navy, Davie best rushing attack in the land and a 
The honeymoon 
and his staff had an extra week off. Tiger defense that terrorized the has long been over Their work during that bye week can quarterb ()f then~No. 1 Florida botwcen the new be described as remarkable, not only Gators, N . would have to coach and the Notre giving the season a lift but possibly effort. Dame program, Davie's career. . . .. kic~koiithat's ending in the cru­All the riumbef,s were staked in can be elest of fashions, a favor of the LsLJTigers1 ll,rid noone in four-game losing America tliol1g~t.tge .Irish had a streak. After inher­chance at goinginto Death Valley ~nd iting a team that coming out with. a Wirl Over the 11th went 8.-3 and As$iStantSports ranked team in.the nation. That is, no returning six of 11 Editor one excepfthqs~ in the Notre Dame starters on defense locker room, · and eight of 11 on offens_(l~ Davie was The Irish could starting to come under some heat and intimidated he was discovering an the negative ' relentless aspects of being the head football coach at the University of Notre 
-~~-~---­
page 2 The Observer· IRISH INSIDER 

get the big play on third down, and penalties, the offense per­formed with precision accuracy taming the Tigers' den en route to a shocking season-salvaging win. 
The offense jumped all over LSU scoring on their first three the air just 14 times. 
"We really hit our goal." Powlus explained. "We wanted to run the ball and be a power offense and I think we've become a much better team than we were earlier in the year." 

Senior Clement Stokes took advantage of outstanding line play rushing 
for 92 yards and a touchdown. 
Davie 
continued from page 1 
into a season that was given up for dead. But that play did something more -it was a potential giant step forward for the young Davie Era. 
Now, the Irish are back in the bowl hunt and have the chance to finish the regular season winning six of their last seven to finish 7-5. 
Though a 7-5 regular season mark is not up to Notre Dame standards, considering the team was 2-5 and about as low a team has been since the Faust Era, finishing his first season with a winning record can be considered quite a feat for Davie and his staff. 
A month and a half ago the team was simply dejected after taking a pummeling at the hands of the Stanford Cardinal. But Saturday the Irish were on the other side of the spectrum when they formed a spirited group rais­ing their gold helmets with pride to the only fans left in Tiger Stadium, and the fans weren't chanting "Tiger bait," they were signing the Notre Dame victory march. 
Davie took his troops, who appeared to be outmatched and outmanned, and made the usually ferocious Tiger fans of Death Valley deathly silent. The Tiger faithful, actually lead by the student section that was nearly full an hour before kickoff. to file out halfway through the third quarter. 
Saturday's win salvaged a season, but it potentially did more than that. This win gives the Bob Davie Era a much needed shot in the arm. If Davie and his team can build on this momentum and take care of business hosting West Virginia and at Hawaii, Notre Dame will have an opportunity for something it has not hand since the 1993 season: a bowl victory. 
The Irish haven't been suc­cessful in the postseason since the Kevin McDougal squad beat Texas A & M 24-21 in the 1994 Cotton Bowl when Davie was on the opposite sideline en route to what was in all of our minds (and justifiably so) a national championship. 
If we see the same team that we saw Saturday the rest of the season, Notre Dame will likely get that elusive bowl vic­tory which would aid the Davie regime in taking a giant leap forward. 
A trip to a bowl means a longer season which means more practices. There is prob­ably nothing more Davie wants than more chances to improve his team, except maybe for a top-notch recruiting class. 
A post-season birth and/or win translates into good things in the recruiting war. Even if it is just the Liberty or Independence Bowl, it is still a bowl. Making a bowl from where the Irish were just over a month ago shows those blue­chippers. that Davie desper­ately wants, that Notre Dame and Bob Davie are headed in the right direction. 
Indeed, in many ways that shocking 24-6 upset over LSU at their place could be more than just a big win for this football team. It could be an enormous win for future Bob Davie teams and it may be considered a turning point or even a defining moment in the Davie Era. 
by the offensive line this year as the offense was able to do something it hadn't been able to do all year, convert on third and fourth downs. 
Apparently Collntto added some plays for his tight ends in the off week as l'owlus looknd to the tight ends when the Irish needed a big complntion. Tight ends Jabari Holloway and Dan O'Leary caught three of Powlus' passes for 35 yards. 
Holloway came up with the first big play for the oll'ense on fourth and one at the Tiger 26. Powlus hit Ilolloway with a strike past the first down mark­er but Ilolloway turned it into a big play dragging a LSU defend­er inside the 10, setting up the first touchdown. 
Another thing the ol'f'nnsf) has been sorely lacking is tlw deep threat. On the second drive and first and 10, Pow Ius put it up for Bobby Brown who dimbed the ladder and hauled it in for a 31-yard completion. 
The offensive game plan, which had come under heavy criticism, was a nearly perfect balance, throwing just nnough to keep the Tigers defense off balance and on their heels. 
"I think we just had a good game plan and you can credit coach Colletto for that," Denson said. "The bye week definitely helped and we were healthy and crisper today." 
"When you can run the ball you can do a lot of different things," offensive guard Mike Rosenthal said. "We decided to come out and run the ball and things worked out for us." 
In the second quarter, Jarious Jackson and Jamie Spencer came up with another key third down conversion on third and five. Spencer came up with a dazzling catch and plowed his way for a first down, keeping the drive alive. 
While the drive came up empty, it still kept Kevin Faulk and llerb Tyler on the sidelines where they could do no dam­age. 
In Death Valley, where if the crowd gets going it is nearly impossible to quiet it down, the offense never gave the Tiger fans reason to cheer. To do that they had to play mistake-free football, and Saturday they came about as dose as a team 

• REPORT CARD 
Quarterbacks: A· 
There was not much action through the air for the Irish, but Powlus and Jackson were steady. Their stats were not helped by two key U::ropped balls. Powlus did come up big on fourth down during tho opening drive of the game. His completion to Holloway got the ball rolling early on for Notre Dame. 
Running Backs: A 
Denson and Stokes collected 92 yards apiece . as the running game simply steamrolled the Tigers. Stokes continued to impress, averag. ing 6.1 yards per carry and crossing the goal line twice. Driver got in on the action with 28 yards on five carries. 
Re~eivers: B 
The wideouts were almost a non-factor in th~ game. Brown made a terrific play on a 31­yard pass from Powlus, but Johnson's drop co-uld have proven costly. Holloway was solid with two catches for 22 yards. 
Offensive Line: A 
The tailbacks played well, but their grand­
mothers could have hit the holes that the line was opening. The men in the trenches got back to classic Notre Dame football and allowed the Irish to give LSU a taste of its own medicine. This unit simply dominated the game. 
Defensive Line: A· 
Faulk gained more than 100 yards, but it took 26 carries for him to do it. Tyler, normal· ly a threat, looked hopeless as Dansby and company pressured him regularly. A ground attack that averages well over 200 yards per game was held to 121 on Saturday. 
Linebackers: A 
The linebacking corps was impressive as a 
Monday, November 17, 1997 
can get to doing that-tlwy were not nagged once in the contest and the only flaws of the first half were passes dropped by Denson and Malcolm Johnson. 
Even thought tlw offense only scored once in the second half, it did its job keeping LSU and punter Hunter Smith off the field. Smith was only set out to punt twice. And after the game Bob Davie explained that there was a miscommunication in the fourth quarter and he wanted to punt from midfield rather than fake it. 
But a couple of minor !laws aside, the offensive performed like a finely tuned machinn and combined with the outstanding play of the defense to make a statement about Notre Dame football. 
"I think W!1 showed America what type of tPam we can be," Stokes observed. 
"Anytimn you can eome from so low to beat a great team is a huge win," Hosnnthal said. "This is what Notre Dame is all about." 
group, but with the way Howard played, it appeared that he could have contained LSU single-handedly. Howard was all over the field, making big hits, stripping the ball from the backs, going deep in coverage, and break­ing. up passes for near interceptions. It may have been the defensive performance of the year. 
Defensive Backs: A 
Tyler connected on 17 of 30 attempts, but averaged less than 10 yards per completion. The secondary not only contained the LSU passing game, it picked Tyler off three times and contributed significantly to the rush defense. 
Special Teams: B-
On the bright side, Rossum opened the game by sparking the offense with his kick return. and the hands team was somehow able to come up with the possession on an excellent onside kick. A missed field goal. a telegraphed fake punt, and Smith's worst kick of his career hurt the grade for these squads. 
Coaching: A~ 
Overalithe playMcalling was strong and the staff took proper advantage of the week off. They clearly had the players in the right frame of mind for the big game and they looked like a different team. The only flaw was the confu­sion surrounding the fake punt. It appeared that the play was supposed to be an actual punt, and although it may have been the play­ers' responsibilty, such a scenario is unaccept­able at a key point in the game. 
Overall: 3.6 
This kind of game was just what the doctor ordered. It was the second true instance of Notre Dame football (the game against Michigan the other) this season. Saturday's win was an example of this team's potential and a bowl berth is once again a realistic pos­sibilty. 

j 
Monday, November 17, 1997 The Observer· IRISH INSIDER page 3 


Howard helps raise defense to another level 
By MIKE DAY had their work cut out for them. In fact, on 38 attempts. 
Sporrs Ediror most were claiming it would take noth­"This was the first ing short of a miracle to avoid being 60-minute game BATON HOUGE, La. buried in Death Valley. we've played all sea­What's going on? Who exactly was However, a funny thing happened out son, and we saw that dof1)nse on the fip,Jd on Saturday, there at Tiger Stadium. From practical­what happened," said and what did they do with tlw Irish unit ly out of nowhere emerged a group of 11 defensive end Melvin of' 1997'? guys who played with a reckless aban­Dansby. "The week 
For much of' tho soason, tlw Notre don and a tnnacity not seen in these off was tremendous. DamP dofonsn has endured morn than parts for some time. I felt likr. a little kid its fair share of' struggles. .Just to start They not only thoroughly dominated running around out with. it has been manhandled by the vaunted LSU rushing attack that had there." Michigan Stato. torched by Stanford. oarned so much national acclaim, when Linebackers Kory and picked apart by USC. it was all said and done. the Irish hand­Minor and Jimmy 
Thus. faced with the daunting task of' ed the Tigers an ass-kicking they soon Friday along with trying to contain tlw fifth-ranked LSU will not forgf~t. Dansby and Corey rushing attack and its star tailback "We went into this game knowing we Bennett were instru­K!)Vin Faulk. some would say the Irish weren't going to bP intimidated," said mental in putting the 
cornerback clamps on Faulk and Allen Hossum. the Tiger running "We heard game. what they were However, one play­saying all er seemed to shine week. but we especially bright chose to let our amid all the gray on playing speak a cold and cloudy day for itself." at Tiger Stadium. In 
From start to fact, a star may have finish, Notre been born. Junior Dame had an linebacker Bobbie answer for Howard was a force everything to be reckoned with When the Tigers finally gave up on the 
G e r r y on the field, turning the once mighty 
ground game and were forced to put the DiNardo's Tigers into a collection of defenseless ball in the air, the much-maligned Irish 
team threw at pussycats. 
secondary was waiting for them. The them. While Before being relieved midway through 
group hurried LSU quarterback Herb 
~· K1win Faulk the fourth quarter, the defensive signal Tyler all day, forcing him into throwing
did end up caller had put up a stat line of Lyron a career-high thme interceptions.
with 109 yards Cobbins proportions: a team-high 10 
Safety Benny Guilbeaux picked off his 
on 26 carries. tackles (seven unassisted), one sack, a 
team-leading fourth pass of the year,
it was a "quiet" broken-up pass, two tackles for losses, and teammate A'Jani Sanders came up
1 09 yards with and a near beheading of Faulk early in with a pair of interceptions for the sud­
his longest run the second half. 
denly opportunistic Notre Dame defense. 
of the day cov­"Tlw reason for our turnaround on "We came out and played both halves 
ering just 14 defense can be directly attributed to today," said Guilbeaux, a Louisiana 
yards. Overall, him," said head coach Bob Davie. "He 
native. "We shut down the run and 
the Tigers sat and learned behind a good line­
forced them to pass -and that was were held to a baeker IKinnon Tatum1 for two years. something they really didn't want to do."
Irish safety A'Jani Sanders was responsible for two of Notre Dame's season-low 121 He learned to play the position. lie's a Kind of like facing ~n Irish defense
three interceptions of LSU quarterback Herb Tyler. 
yards rushing good football player." 
with an eye of the tiger. 


TEAM RECORD  POINTS PREVIOUS  
1. Michigan (44)  10-0  1723  1  
2. Florida St (24)  10-0  1695  2  
3. Nebraska (2)  10-0  1622  3  
4. Ohio St  10-1  1513  4  
5. Tennessee  8-1  1442  5  
6. Penn St  8-1  1401  6  
7. UCLA  8-2  1296  9  
8. North Carolina  9-1  1264  8  
9. Kansas St  9-1  1198  10  
10. Florida  8-2  1066  12  
11. Washington St  9-1  1054  14  
12. Arizona St  8-2  1027  15  
13. Auburn  8-2  888  16  
14. Georgia  7-2  838  7  
15. Mississippi St  7-2  686  17  
16. Texas A&M  8-2  657  18  
17. Washington  7-3  514  13  
18. Syracuse  8-3  506  21  
19. Virginia Tech  7-2  494  19  
20. LSU  7-3  456  11  
21. Missouri  7-4  277  25  
22. West Virginia  7-2  208  
23. Purdue  7-3  185  19  
24. Wisconsin  8-3  178  23  
25. Colorado St  8-2  168  


Others receiving votes: So Mississippi 70, Air Force 68, Mississippi 46, Toledo 33, Oklahoma St 31, Iowa 28, Marshall 27, Texas Tech 26, Louisiana Tech 23, New Mexico 21, USC 11, Clemson 5, Virginia 4, Utah St 1. 
• STAT!ST!CAU.Y SPEAKING 
Notre Dame LSU  1st 17 0  2nd 0 0  3rd 7 0  4th 0 6  Final 24 6  
First downs Rushed-yards Passing yards Sacked-yards lost Return yards Passes Punts Penalties-yards Time of possession  ND 20 260-48 79 1-11 2-48 7-15-0 1-17 0-0 30:34  LSU 19 121-38 167 3-25 5-103 17-30-3 2-44.5 4-30 29:26  
Individual Statistics  

RUSHING: LSU-Faulk 26-109, Tyler 11-33, Foster 1-11 Notre Dame-Denson 17-97, Stokes 15-92, Driver 5-28, Barry 3-21, Spencer 3-20, Jackson 2-16, Powlus 3-5 
PASSING: LSU-Tyler 17-30-3-167 Notre Dame-Powlus 6-1 0-0-74, Jackson 1-4-0-5, Smith 0-1­0-0 
RECEIVING: LSU-Booty 4-68, Foster 4-45, Cleveland 2-13, Domingeaux 1-11, Banks 1-11, Skinner 1-11 Notre Dame-Holloway 2-22, Spencer 2-5, Brown 1-31, O'Leary 1-13, Johnson 1-8 
Att: 80,566 
• SCORING SUMMARY 
1st Quarter Notre Dame-Denson 9 yard run (Cengia kick), 12:30 Notre Dame-FG Cengia 29 yards, 4:14 Notre Dame-Stokes 6 yard run (Cengia kick), 1 :37 
2nd Quarter No scoring 
3rd Quarter Notre Dame-Stokes 1 yard run (Cengia kick), 5:58 
Game  
continued from page 1  
pass and raced upfield to the Tiger 15-yard line.  
Notre Dame's combination of Denson and Stokes  
took over with Stokes hammering in a touchdown  
from six yards out. Cengia delivered the extra  
point, and the team led by 17.  
"Actually at halftime, I was nervous because it  
was 17-0, and we should have had some more  
points," Davie said. "But I think we played well  
and played good, solid football all day.  
"I think the only negatives on offense ­we had  
three dropped passes, and we've had a little bit of  
that the last couple of weeks," Davie said. 'That's  
going to catch up with us."  
The Tigers' main offensive threat, Kevin Faulk,  
had a mediocre performance chalking up 105  
yards on 26 carries and a single touchdown. His  
inability to score severely crippled the Tigers'  
chances.  
"Defensively, I thought it was one of our better  
efforts," Davie said. "When you have some guys  
back and healthy, you obviously notice the differ­ 
ence."  
Once again, the Irish established the tone right  
out of the locker room. On the team's first posses­ 
sion, it chalked up its final points of the day. Stokes drilled in a score from a yard out to secure  ·"  
a win for the Irish. The Notre Dame ground attack  
thrashed through the LSU defense with relative  
ease. Dan O'Lpary got his hands on a 13-yard  
Powlus pass, but otherwise Denson and Stokes  
were the go-to guys in the final scoring drive.  
Offensively. the Irish looked polished. Stokes  
had 15 carries for 92 yards and two touchdowns,  
while Denson had 17 carries for 92 yards and one  
touchdown.  •  
Powlus turned in a solid performance with six  
completions l'or 74 yards. In Jarious Jackson's  
single serios, he had a single completion for five  
yards.  
"It was a big win for us and for the players,"  
Davie said. "We certainly don't have all of our  
problems solved; we just take them one week at a  
time."  
DiNardo expressed concern about the team's  
week off after the tough loss.  
"What's more disturbing is that we have an open  
date after a loss like this," he said. "We have to  
live with this for two weeks."  
The victory over the ranked Tigers has only  
intensified Notre Dame's hunger for another  
upset, and with bowl opportunities on the horizon,  
the Irish are ready for the Mountaineers.  

4th Quarter LSU-Faulk 2 yard run (pass failed), 6:35 

--,-~_,---~----~----~~-____, -----------·-~--~-~~---~ 
Monday, November 17, 1997
-

24 

6 
Tiger Stadium November 15, 1997 
The Observer/Brandon Candura 
Autry Denson was too much for the Tiger defense to handle. He averaged more than five yards a carry on his way to 92 yards and one touchdown. 
The Observer/Kevin Dalum 
LSU superstar Kevin Faulk gained more than 100 yards Saturday but he had to earn each and every one of them . 
.. 
The Obsever/Brandon Candura The Observetr/Brand<on 
The Notre Dame offensive line won the battle in the trenches givingLSU quarterback Herb Tyler was constantly hounded by Lamont Bryant and his defensive teammates. 
Ron Powlus plenty of time in the pocket when the Irish did elect to go to the air. 

Monday, November 17, 1997 page 13 
• 


By JOE LENISKI 
Accent Movie Criric 
L 
adics. does your man ever do anything that makes sense'? Do you sit home on Wednesday nights watch­ing "Party of Five," shake your head and ask your­self'. "Why doesn't my guy act like that?" Easy answer: TlwsP adolescent angst-filled, teeny-trauma pop dramas arP lhd'f' and puff' about male schemata. They show you what you want to believe. Ladies, I am offering you the chance to really find out what makes guys tick. "But what is this lloly Grail of Masculine Hevelation" you say? Quite simply it is a small independent film, probably collecting dust on video-rental store shelves everywhere, called "SwingPrs." 
It is the story of Mike (Jon Favreau) and Trent (Vince Vaughn), two cats living-out the L.A. night life looking for tlw next best thing they can find. which usually turns out to be a darkly-lit shade fest at the local bar. These guys haV!1 o1w mission in life: to be cool no matter what they an1 doing. Picking up girls: cool. Walking down the road: cool. Playing Nintendo at home on a Friday night: cool. Do you see what I am getting at? These guys are high profile and tlwy know it, at least Trent does. But Mike is not sure, al'ter all lw usPd to be the insecure fat guy from "Rudy." So TrPnt and company set out to bring Mikey up to speed, which mmms cocktails, parties in the hills, 24-hour break­fast diners. and of course "babies" (aka chicks, foxes, or as they say on Party of Five, girls). 
Now ladies, grab a notebook and pencil during these social gatherings. for it is here where the male discourse is in full-effect. Everything you ever wanted to know about how a male is on display: how we approach a girl, where in the room we stand, and how to dress, act, and talk "money." The life this nouveau rat-pack lives would make Frankie and Sammy proud, and they do it to swinging per­fection. Vince Vaughn delivers the knockout performance in this nick, offering Mike smooth insights like, "You can't get a woman to come back unless you are willing to forget her. Then you won't care if she does come back." Rookie directory Doug Liman borrows technique from Tarantino but manages to put his own signature on the movie, and the dialogue written by Favreau is dynamic, witty, and almost requires its own dictionary to translate all of the slang (you'll be surprised what "business class" stands for). This is the best movie you have never seen, so grab a copy, wipe the dust off and enjoy. And after this ride, babies. you will never look at boys the same again. 

I. The Jackal 
2. 
Starship Troopers 

3. 
The Little Mermaid 

4. 
Bean 

5. 
The Man Who Knew Too Little 

6. 
I Know What You Did... 

7. 
Devil's Advocate 

8. 
Red Corner 

9. 
Boogie Nights 

10. 
Eve's Bayou 


Source: Associated Press 

---~--~-----~­
.......,-----------... 
page 14 The Observer • SPORTS Monday, November 17, 1997 
.NBA 
Phoenix rallys past Houston 
Robinson hits last second jumper to boost team to win 
Associated Press 
PHOENIX 
Cliff Robinson hit a jumper from the free-throw line with three-tenths of a second left. allowing the Phoenix Suns to come back from 16 points down and beat theHouston Rockets 96-94 Sunday night. 
Clyde Drexler, whose 3­pointer tied it with 14 seconds to go, took an in-bounds pass and got off a final shot, but hit the top of the backboard, and the Rockets absorbed their fourth straight loss. 
Kevin Johnson had 30 points, 10 rebounds and six assists for the Suns, who start­ed 6-1 for the first time in 13 years. Jason Kidd added 21 points, seven rebounds and seven assists. 
Hakeem Olajuwon had 22 points, 12 rebounds and five blocks, but nobody else had more than 13 for the Rockets. 
Charles Barkley, who had a career-best 33 rebounds last season in his first appearance at America West Arena after the Suns traded him to Houston, had five this time. lie and Drexler finished with 12 points each. 
The Suns applied full-court pressure to get back in it after falling behind 52-36 on a short jumper by Olajuwon 15 sec­onds into the third quarter. 
Kidd got the deficit down to single digits with a 3-pointer that closed the gap to 66-57 with 3:35 left in the period, and Johnson made two free throws and a driving layup to get the Suns within six, 70-64, at the end of the third. 
Johnson got a defensive rebound after Olajuwon missed and tied it 87-87 with a 16-foot jumper at the other end with 2:43 left in the game. 
Kevin Willis gave the 
Rockets another lead with a layup, but Rex Chapman tied it at 89 with an 18-footer with 
1:51 to play, and Nash gave the Suns their first lead since the end of the first quarter with a 3-pointor at the 1:18 mark. 
Drexler missed two free throws with 46 seconds to go, and Danny Manning got the rebound and finished a fast break to give Phoenix a 94-91 lead with 33 seconds remain­ing. 
Johnson and Barkley offset each other with 12 points apiece in the l'irst quarter, when no more than five points separated the teams and tho lead changed hands eight times. But that's when Barkley's scoring ended. 
Then Olajuwon, scoreless in the first period, had nine points during a 21-6 Houston run to start the second. 
He capped it with a short jumper and then a 16-footer, sending the Hockets ahead 4:~­29 with 5:46 remaining. 
• NHL 

Carolina snaps Hurricanes' streak 
Associated Press 
VANCOUVER 
Mike Keenan earned his first win as head coach of the Vancouver Canucks on Sunday, a 4-1 victory over the Carolina llurricanes. 
The win gave Vancouver a three-game unbeaten streak after losing 10 straight. The Hurricanes had their three­game winning streak snapped. 
Keenan replaeed Tom Henney as head coach of the Canucks on Thursday, after Vancouver had opened tho sea­son with a 3-13-2 record. Keenan's Canucks tied Anaheim on Friday in his debut behind the bench. 
Vancouver earried a 3-1 lead into tho third period after the teams were tied at 1-1 after 20 minutes. 
Defenseman Dana Murzyn 
gave Vancouver a 2-1 lead six minutes into the second as his slap shot found the net over the left shoulder of Carolina goal­tender Sean Burke. 
Vancouver took a two-goal lead with 59 seconds remaining in the period as Alex Mogilny finished ofT a nice three-way passing play by taking Grant Ledyard's feed at the side of the net and slipping it past a sprawling Burke. 
Mogilny's seeond of the game, on the power play, 12 minutes into the third period put the game away for Vancouver. 
Dave Scatchard also scored for the Canurks whilc Steve Leach had the Hurricanes' goal. 
Both teams struggled on the power play as Vancouver scored just onee in six attempts while Carolina went 0-for-5 with the man advantage. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office. 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day 
classifieds is 3p.m. All classiheds must be prepaid. The charge is 3 cents per character per day. includ­ing all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content withom issuing refunds. 
Classifieds 
NOTICES  ***** LOST***** Help!! Large Gold "Ciaudaugh"  HELP!!! I'm graduating in dec. and am looking for person(s) to take  FOR SALE  2 stud tix for sale. all home games. Call4-3313  souflet (sp?) of dot product gar­nish. feeds 7, but were not sure why.  
Earring lost at "Finnigan's" on  over my babysitting job for two  Honda Accord Hatchback  FOR SALE--2 W.Virginia GA's  
Friday, Nov. 7th.  ADORABLE, WELL-BEHAVED  1987. 93K miles.  Call 634-3395. Leave msg. w/  NO Inquisition  
000 THE COPY SHOP 000  If found please call Casey @  little kids. Really fun family and  v. good condition. 1 owner.  offer.  http://rosenberg- 
LaFortune Student Center  634-1346. Please! I It is very  GOOD$$$!!! call Marie X4298  $3,000  3a.student.nd.edu  
Store Hours  special!  631-8672  2 WV GA for sale. Call Rob at  Who's your daddy  
Mon.-Thur.: 7:30 a.m.-Midnight  "*EARN FREE TRIPS &  271-6005  
Fri.: 7:30 a.m.-7:00p.m.  REWARD: Lost gold shamrock  CASH*"  Near Campus -1338 Miner St.  now the algebra teacher extro­ 
Sat.: Noon-6:00p.m. Sun.: Noon-Midnight  pin. Date on back. Sentimental value. If found,  CLASS TRAVEL needs stu­dents to promote Spring Break  2 BR Enclosed Front Porch. New Roof, Siding & Carpet.  PERSONAL  dinare has to do here home­work for class. what will  
(closed home football Sat.'s)  please contact Louise at  1998! Sell 15 trips & travel free!  Central Air & Full Basement  appear in the next exciting  
Phone 631-COPY  x4416.  Highly motivated students can  $44,900 1-800-382-2952  ADOPTION -LOOK NO FUR­ issue of isomorphic man vs the  
earn a free trip & over $1 0,000!  THER  Evil Grader  
Found--Setofkeysin  Choose Cancun, Bahamas,  A newspaper ad led me to  
DeBartolo. Call Kim at 4-4376.  Mazatlan, Jamaica or Florida!  MAC-12MB, CD-ROM, color  DEBBIE & MIKE 2 years ago &  BED 'N BREAKFAST REG­ 
GREAT RESUMES! Only 4 mi.  North America's largest student  monitor, printer, fax/modem,  I chose them to adopt my baby.  ISTRY  
from NO campus on U.S.  LOST: Sapphire ring around  tour operator! Call Now! 1-800­ $750/0BO, 4-4322  They're wonderful parents and  219 291 7153  
31/33. Call (616)684-4633. Spring Break '98  SOH at dinner Tuesday 11/11. Please help me find it! REWARD. Theresa x2146 HELP!!!!!!  838-6411 FOR RENT I '=============:::--'  ='==T==I==CKE==T==S~ NO VS.W. VA TIX  I couldn't be happier with my choice. I'm thrilled that they want to adopt again! They're fun, affectionate, professional, stable & easy to talk to. I'll  Would you like a tossed salad today?????? 000 THE COPY SHOP 000  
Cancun, Jamaica, Bahamas, &  I lost my little clown! Help  FOR SALE 273-3911 LEAVE  gladly talk with you too.  LaFortune Student Center  
Florida. Group Discounts &  make the world happy and  WALK TO CAMPUS  MESSAGE  (888)690-BABY or check their  '-1 High-Speed Copies  
Free Drink Parties! Sell Trips,  send him home.  2-5 BEDROOM HOMES  web site at  ~ Canon Color Laser Copies  
Earn Cash &Go Free! 1-800-234-7007  Call Nick with info. P.S.­No probes.  $195/PERSON 232-2595  4 ND-WVU football tickets for sale. Call 860-623-3682.  WWW.MEETUS.COM  ~ Digital Color Printing vBinding & Laminating  
www .endlesssummertours.com  000 Looking for a unique gift?  vPublic Fax Service 631-FAX1  
######## For Sale ########  Bring in your favorite pictures  Phone 631-COPY  
LOST-ROLL OF FILM AT NO­ HOUSE FOR RENT. FALL 98.  2 West Virginia student tickets  and we'll create a personalized  
USC GAME. LOST SOME­ 4/5 BR. 1 BATH. WASH/DRY.  (cheap!!)  COLOR COPY CALENDAR!!!  B.O.M.  
Will TYPE thesis, term papers,  WHERE BETWEEN STADIUM  DISHWASHER. DISPOSAL.  call Jenny @ 687-8435  THE COPY SHOP  Productions  
resumes,etc. IBM & MAC­ & SHUTTLE BUSES. PLEASE  FRIDGE. NEW GAS FUR­ ########################  LaFortune Student Center  
Word,  CALL 513-922-8756.  NACE.  Tuesdays @ Finnigan's  
- WP,Excei,Pgmkr,Ciaris,Photo  2 BLOCKS FROM NO. HAS  4 WV GA's for sale call Erin 4­ well, i've got the first half ...  Half Priced pitchers  
Shop.Call LINDA 1-9468.  WANTED  SECURITY SYSTEM. 289-4712  2453  I need a ride from OMAHA, NEBRASKA back to NO prefe­ Shot specials No Cover  
FOR SALE 4WV GAs $32 ea  riably around Sunday but am  
Gold!! Wanted reps., unlimited  my body--call nic 251-0114  +  flexiable. please call jon 4­ FOR SALE  
Ever Dreamed of Your Own  earning potential!!  CHEAP!!!!!  local hotel room 2 nights  0605  3 WV GAs at face value. Call  
Business?  616-461-6772.  call Carrie @ x0764  284-4054.  
TASP International seeks stu­ ROOMS IN PRIVATE HOME  BEN FOLDS FIVE are coming  
dents for next summer who  1997-98 NATIONAL PARK  FOR FOOTBALL WEEKENDS  NOTRE DAME  in concert to Stepan Nov. 18!!  On a cold wintry day in South  
want entrepreneurial and man­ EMPLOYMENT -Work in  AND OTHER ND-SMC  FOOTBALL TICKETS  Check out this night of incredi­ Bend with no intentions to  
agement experience. Positive  America's National Parks,  EVENTS.  BUY -SELL-TRADE  ble music just for the sound of  offend, three McGlinn women  
attitude a must. Full training.  Forests &Wildlife Preserves.  VERY CLOSE TO CAMPUS - it! Tix at LaFunk info desk $9  set out to create. This is their  
Earn $8K to $10K. CALL 1­ Companies hire entry  5 MIN. DRIVE OR 15-20 MIN.  232-0058  for NO, SMC, HCC students,  story I now relate.  
800-543-3792.  level/skilled/volunteer workers.  WALK.  $12 for public.  Bob the snowman was his  
Summer/Year-round.  243-0658.  CONFIDENTIAL  name.  
Tutor Available for Grades K-8  Competitive wages & bonuses!  TICKET-MART, INC.  don antonio is hibernating till  
Exper'd Cert'd Teacher  We can help you make the  THAT PRETTY PLACE, Bed  love 'springs' again. sorry mi  PO -­Happy Arabic paper!  
Close to NO campus  connection. (517)324-3082 ext.  and Breakfast Inn has space  BUY/SELL NO SEASON AND  amor  --MK  
243-4984  N55841  available for football/parent  INDIVIDUAL GAME TICKETS.  
wknds. 5 Rooms with private  674-7645.  ADOPTION Happily married  Bing, Walked in on "some- 
MIXES TO CD  Elementary-Jr HS Girls  baths, $70-$90,  couple with lots of love to share  thing?" --PO  
Impress your friendswith this unique gift idea.  Basketball and Boys Ice Hockey Coach/s needed ­ Middlebury, 30 miles from campus. Toll Road, Exit #107,  NO FOOTBALL TICKETS FOR SALE  with newborn. Can help with doctor bills. Please. call 1-800­ ********'*"'ATTENTION**"'*******  
Mixes from tapes, LP's, & CO's  responsible, dependable, stu­ 1-800-418-9487.  DAYTIME #: 232-2378  484-6399 X2706.  Today is the big day ...  
Call Doron Enterprises for info.  dent/grad to coach 5th-8th  EVENING#: 288-2726  The Music Man, aka John  
Steve: 288-1545  grade girls basketball or boys  1,2 & 3 BDRM  LOW PRICES  NEED AJOB?  Pusey, turns 21 today!!! If you  
Tony: 289-3813  ice hockey team/s Jan-Mar. for  HOMES.GILLIS PROPER­ Student Activities is accepting  see him skulking about campus  
..  ILOST & FOUND I  south side independent school, located near Scottsdale Mall on Miami Street. Must be available  TIES. 272-6551  FOR SALE N.D. G.A.'S  applications for: Gorch Games Room Building Set Up Crew  make sure that you give him a swift kick in the pants. If not, then everyone is welcome to  
for practice Man-Thus from  Information Desk  join him and his compadres for  
Found • Found • Found'Found  1:30­ 6 BDRM HOME NEXT  271-9412.  Building Manager  tonight's SMASHING festivities  
Piece of Jewelry in C1 Parking  2:30 or 2:15-3:15. Game  FALL.272-6551  Apply at 315 LaFortune.  at some of South Bend's finest  
Lot near Juniper Road. Please  schedule varies with games  WANTED N D G A'S  establishments. See you  
call Dana @ 271-0250 to describe and claim. Thank  beginning after shcool at 4:00, 5:00, or 6:00 p.m. Paid posi­ NICE HOMES FOR NEXT SEMESTER AND NEXT  TO ALL HOME GAMES 271 1526  recipe for wronskian pie: any random ingrediants  there!!! *********ATTENTION***********  
you.  tion. Call 291-4200 to apply.  SCHOOL YEAR 2773097  beat, whip, chew, invert, flip,  
(brain) fry, then serve up with a  

• i. 1 • ) r 
Monday, November 17, 1997 The Observer • SPORTS page 15 
• NFL 

Indy knocks of defending champs for first victory 
Associated Press ball. 'The way our luck has been going this year, we could have INDIANAPOLIS fumbled the ball. You just never 
The Indianapolis Colts finally know what is going to happen," found a team they could beat said Justin, starting in place of and it turned out to be the injured Jim Harbaugh for the defGnding Super Bowl champi­third time this season. ons. Only three other teams, 
Cary Blanchard kicked a 20-Houston. the Los Angeles Rams yard field goal as time expired and San Diego, have beaten a as the Colts beat the Green Bay defending Super Bowl champion Packers 41-38 on Sunday. It three years in a row. was the Colts' first victory this "We showed today we're not season but the third game-win­an 0-10 football team," ning field goal by Blanchard Blanchard said 
against the defending Super "This is a big load off the play­Bowl champion in three years. ers, the fans, everybody. 
"At the end. I was kind of Everybody in that locker room thinking on the sideline, 'Get me believed we could win." a little closer. a little closer, run Favre passed for 363 yards thr. timr. down,"' Blanchard and three touchdowns, but he 
said. had three big turnovers that led With the Colts lined up at the to 17 points by the Colts. 
Packers' 3-yard line, the game­"It's tough to lose any game," winner was nothing more than Favre said. "I tip my hat off to an extra-point kick. a gimme. the Colts. I knew there was no 
''I'm not going to miss an team in this league that could extra point. I've never missed go without a wi11_,_ Unfortunately, an extra point," Blanchard said. it was against us. 
The Colts (1-10) moved 72 "This is no excuse for losing. yards in the final 5:19 after We felt we should have won. We Grelm Bay (8-3) tied the game put up a lot of points ... we just 38-:~8 on Brett Favre's second didn't get the job done," Favre touchdown pass to Antonio said. Frneman. Indianapolis trailed 28-27 at 
Paul Justin. who passed for a the half, but an interception by can")er-high 340 yards, complet­Quentin Coryatt set up a 35­ed four straight ,passes on the yard field goal by Blanchard. 
winning drive. His 27-and 28-That put the Colts back on top 
and we did it with a bunch of touchdown to give the Colts a yards and the touchdown. yarders to Ken Dilger took the 30-28 late in the third quarter. guys who wouldn't quit." 17-14 lead. A 41-yard field goal by
Colts to the Packers 1 with just Green Bay's Ryan Longwell 
The first .half was a series of Favre later was intercepted by Blanchard as the half ended under two minutes to go. countered with an 18-yard field 
big plays. Dorsey Levens scored Robert Blackmon, who lateraled pulled the Colts to 28-27. 
Instead of trying for a touch­goal, then both teams three touchdowns, including a to Jason Belser as Blackmon Blanchard also had a 42-yardclown, Justin dropped to his exchanged touchdowns in the 
career-long 52-yard TO run and was being tackled. Belser field goal in the first quarter. knne on three straight plays, final seven minutes. A 2-point one on a 1-yard run after a 7 4-returned it 50 yards for the Justin also passed 17 yards
forcing Green Bay to use its last conversion pass from Justin to yarcl pass to Derrick Mayes. touchdown, putting Indianapolis for a touchdown to Harrison time out and running the clock Marvin Harrison after Lamont 
Each team punted only once ahead 24-14. late in the first quarter after a clown to three seconds. Warren's 3-yard TO run made it 
the entire game, and the Colts Green Bay got those touch­season-long 45-yard run byBlanchard, whose field goals 38-31. 
scored twice in the second peri­downs back in the final four Marshall Faulk. Faulk, who had beat San Francisco two years "I'd be lying if I said this 
od on turnovers by the Packers. minutes before halftime. . 110 yards a week earlier ago and Dallas last year, then wasn't special," said Colts coach Favre was sacked by Monty Levens' third touchdown cut against Cincinnati, finished with kicked the game-winner as time Lindy Infante, who was fired by Montgomery and fumbled on the lead to 24-21, then Justin 116 yards on 17 carries, his first 
ran out. The Colts stormed onto the Packers in 1992. ''I'm 
the first play of the second was sacked and fumbled on the consecutive 100-yard gamesthe field in celebration. human like everyone else. We 
quarter. Al Fontenot recovered next series at the Indianapolis since the first two games of his "We decided to kneel on the beat a good football team today, 
at the 33 and returned for a 31. Favre hit Freeman for 16 rookie season. 
Please join us for an 
information session 
Thursday, November 20 Alumni Senior Club 7:00-8:30 pm Sponsored by Notre Dame Career & Placement 
MEDIA. .. It is what takes ideas from the conceptual and production stage, to our living rooms, malls, bars, and the broad 

-
outdoors. At LEO BURNETT, we make MEDIA our business. Because what is an idea if it hasn't anyplcace to go? 
I 
I 




page 16 The Observer • SPORTS Monday, November 17, 1997 
• NFL 
Chiefs' Stoyanovich spoils Elway's efforts with last-second field goal 
Associated Press 
KANSAS CITY, Mo. 
Pete Stoyanovich spoiled John Elway's comeback with what he described as "the kick of my life." 
But it was Marty Schottenheimer's coaching that made Stoyanovich's 54­yard game-winning field goal possible andgave Kansas City an improbable 24-22 win over Denver on Sunday.. 
"I was thinking 'clock man­agement, clock management,' " Schottenheimer said after the Chiefs pulled within a game of Denver in the AFC West on Stoyanovich's field goal on the final play of the game. 
It was the seconds Schottenheimer saved as Elway was driving the Broncos toward what appeared to be the 44th game-winning drive of his career that were just as important. 
Trailing 21-19, Denver (9-2) got the ball back on its 27 with two minutes left, just the posi­tion you don't want to be in against Elway. "He's stuck the dagger in me a lot," Schottenheimer said. 
Sure enough. the Broncos started moving, and when they began running to get Jason Elam in position for his fifth field goal, 
Schottenheimer used two timeouts, and when Elam kicked a 34-yarder to put Denver ahead 22-21, there was a minute left. 
That left enough time for a desperation drive and a des­peration kick that gave the Chiefs (8-3) a critical win. 
"We were going to leave the ball in our defense's hands, but they just made some good plays,"'said Terrell Davis, who rushed for127 yards, but just 19 in the second half. 
In the long run, the loss could be a break for the Broncos, who probably will have to play all out the rest of the season to win the division. Last season, they clinched homefield advantage for the AFC with a month left, relaxed and were upset at home by Jacksonville in their f'irst play­off game. 
"We are coming around the last stretch and we aren't 
three  lengths  ahead  any  
more," said Elway, who  was  
18-of-31 for 232  yards.  

"We knew what we could do coming in here and winning. And we did what we could but it didn't happen." 
In this game, Denver relaxed in the second quarter after jumping off to a 13-0 lead. Kansas City's defense and spe­cial teams, led by Derrick Thomas, Donnie Edwards and Tamarick Vanover, set up three touchdowns that gave the Chiefs a 21-13 lead. 
Elway was sacked six times and Davis rushed for 76 yards in the first quarter and 108 in the first half. 
"We just played him with more intensity," Thomas said. "I think we were a little flat at the start." 
Two field goals by Elam cut it to 21-19 and then Elway got going and got Denver the lead. But Rich Gannon, who was 11 of 21 for just 98 yards, took advantage of the time Schottenheimer had left him and got 40 of those yards in the final drive -18 to Marcus Allen, 12 to Andre Rison and 10 more to Rison. 
Then Stoyanovich, whose career long was 59 yards when he was with Miami, hit a line drive that barely cleared the upright. Stoyanovich never saw it and didn't know it was 

See tomorrow's Observer for complete weekend hockey results. 
CHRllST[AN PERSJP>ECTllVE§ ON THE 
DEATH PENALTY: A PANEl. [)[S'C'USSllON 
Death Penalty as a Theological Issue, a Human 

Rights Issue, and an Issue of Race. Also, Personal Experiences with Death Row Inmates 
Life Death 
"Capital Punishment feeds the cycle of violence instead of stopping it." 
-the late Cardinal Joseph Bernardin 
TuESDAY, NovEMBER 18 
STAPLETON LOUNGE -LEMANS HALL 
.. 
TOO-9:00P.M. 
As the State of Indiana prepares to exer.ute Gary Burris at 12:01 a.m. on November 20, we invite the Saint Mary's/Notre Dame Community to learn mrm about the death penalty and about the faith-based actions 'IJ!!e can take to respond to it. 
Sponsored by: Saint t-.Jary's College Justice Education Program; C:cmcr for Social C~n~crns ~t N?trc I?am,e; Sisters of the Holy Cross; Campus Ministry-Notre Oame; Department nf Rchg10us. Stu tiles ~SMC); Department of Philosophy (S~IC); \·lulticultural Affairs Office (SMC); Office of ·Multicultural Student Affairs at Notre Dame 
good until holder Louie /\guiar let him know. 
"I'm too short to see over the line," the 5-foot-11 Stoyanovich said. "I didn't know I made it until Louie jumped on me." 
It was the Broncos who jumped first -a 13-0 lead on field goals of 21 and 38 yards between a 98-yard, seven-play drive capped by Elway's 5­yard TD pass to Shannon Sharpe. 
But as quickly as you could say "Tamarick Vanover," Kansas City was ahead 14-13. 
/\fter Elam 's second field goal. Vanover ignited the Chiefs on the ensuing kickoff. sprinting 77 yards to the Broncos 18. Four plays later, Allen dashed 6 yards up the middle for his 118th career rushing touchdown, adding to his NFL record. 
The defense sacked Elway on consecutive plays as Thomas, who missed almost all of the season's first six games with a triceps injury, got his first sack. 
Vanover later returned Tom Rouen 's punt 18 yards to the Denver45, and a pass interfer­ence call against Ray Crockett put the ball at the 6. Gannon rolled left and found Danan Hughes alone in the end zone and it was 14-13. 
The defense set up the next score seven minutes into the third quarter. Edwards sacked Elway and recovered his fum­ble at the Denver 36. , 
Elam cut it to 21-16 with a 38-yard kick. 1-lis 28-yardcr 46 seconds into the fourth quar­ter made it 21-19. 
Then the fun began. 
"We are in the entertain­ment business, aren't we'?" Schottenheimer said. 

Way shows Giants the path to victory 
Associated Press 
EAST RUTHERFORD, N.J. The New York Giants found the perfect way to keep the ball out of .Jake Plummer's hands: Give the ball to Charles Way. 
Way had 114 of the Giants' 201 rushing yards, while Danny Kanell engineered New York's balanced attack with 182 passing yards and two touchdowns in a 19-10 victory over Arizona on Sunday. 
"Everybody wants to get their hands on the ball and do some­thing with it. The important thing is we won the game," said Way, who started the season as a blocking fullback. "When the running game is going well, all Danny has to do is make a couple of big plays each week, and that's what he did." 
"I wouldn't trade him for any fullback in the league,'' Giants coach Jim Fassel said. 
The Giants (7-4), who stayed in f'irst place in the NFC East with the victory. throttled the Cardinals' running game for the second time this season. But Plummer was spectacular in defeat, keep­ing the Cardinals dose until Jason Sehorn's interception set up Brad Daluiso's clinching 34-yard field goal with 4:49 left. 
Plummer completed 22 of 33 passes for 388 yards, becoming the lirst rookie to throw for 300 yards against the Giants. Frank Sanders caught nine passes for 188 yards and Rob Moore eight for 139 for Arizona (2-9), but the Giants sacked Plummer eight times, including three by Michael Strahan. 
"If I had thrown for 800 yards, it wouldn't matter because the interception meant that it was not the result we wanted," Plummer said. "We would have scored if I hadn't thrown it so poorly. It was encouraging that w_e got the ball to Rob and Frank, but there's no Super Bowl for moral victories." 
The Cardinals trailed 16-10 after an 80-yard drive by the Giants consumed 8 minutes, 55 seconds. But a 31-yard pass to Moore, who didn't play the last few minutes because of a sprained knee, put Arizona on the 38 before a sack and Sehorn's 41-yard return of the interception led to the f'inal f'ield goal. 
"It was just a bad throw," said Sehorn. who in addition to his interception had three tackles for losses among his 10 tackles and caused a fumble that he recovered. 
Plummer led the Cardinals to all their points in the third quar­ter. freeing himself with a scramble and finding Sanders wide open for a 70-yard touchdown that made it 10-7. Four more completions to Sanders set up Joe Nedney's tying 34-yard field goal. 
But the Giants got a 20 mph wind at their backs in the fourth quarter and took advantage with the 80-yard, 17 -play drive for the go-ahead touchdown. a 1-yard toss from Kanell to Howard Cross. Daluiso missed the extra point to leave the score 16-10. 
Fassel said the wind was a key factor all day, with no points scored into the wind by either team. 
The Natural Law Institute 
presents 

The Olin Distinguished Lecture Series 

I 
---~-~ 
~~----~--~-~--w---~~-------------~--~

Everybody plays at the College Football Hall of Fame! Experience the excitement of an action-packed game, test your skills, or learn from legendary coaches. There's something for everyone at the College Football Hall of Fame! 
• 
360o Stadium Theater • Training Center • Pigskin Pageantry • Hall of Champions Strategy Clinic • Bowl Games & National Championships • Great Moments · 

''THE SCORE" SPORTS RADIO LIVE FROM THE HALL 
Friday, November 21 2:00P.M.-6:30P.M. 
Join 'The Heavy Fuel Crew," Dan McNeil & Terry Boers, 
as they broadcast their show live from the Hall on Chicago's 
most popular sports talk radio station, WSCR-AM 1160 
NOTRE DAME FOOTBALL PREVIEW 
Sponsored by the Knights ofColumbus, Council 553 
Friday, November 21 8:30P.M. in the "Press Box" at the College Football Hall of Fame 
Football history, trivia, door prizes, and the latest information on Notre Dame and West Virginia. Special Guest: Tony Rice 
The world's most exciting and interactive sports Hall ofFame is just a FREE SHUITLE ride away! 
Shuttle Hours & Schedule: Shuttle will run from 12 noon -8:30 P.M. (Friday Only!) 
Bus will pick up and drop offat the Main Circle east ofAlumni Hall on Notre Dame Ave. 


NOTRE DAME 
to Hall of Fame 
12:00 NOON 
1:00 P.M. 2:00P.M. 3:00P.M. 4:00P.M. 5:00P.M. 
6:00P.M. 7:00P.M. 
HALL OF FAME 
To Notre Dame 
12:30 P.M. 
1:30 P.M. 2:30P.M. 3:30P.M. 4:30P.M. 5:30P.M. 6:30P.M. 7:30P.M. 8:30P.M. 





1.800.440.FAME 
(1.800.440.3263) • http://collegefootball.org/ 
219.235.9999 ..... 
~ UNITEDSTLlTES -auRGER Alka· 
Founding Sponsors: IEifPOSTLlLSERVICErM • 
KING Seltzer. 

page 18 The Observer • SPORTS Monday, November 17, 1997 
'" which ranks him sixth on the
• NFL Bball school's all-time career victory 
list. continued from page 24 A win over the Irish would 
move Dennis one win closer to One of the players responsi­tying Norm Sloan, who
Bucs clinch winning season 
Associated Press 
TAMPA, Fla. 
The stumbling, fumbling, bum­bling Tampa Bay Buccaneers are no more. 
The Bucs stopped their NFL­record streak of 14 consecutive losing seasons Sunday, and did it in convincing fashion with a 27-7 rout of defending AFC champion New England. 
The triumph also lifted the perennial NFC Central doormats into a tie for the division lead with Green Bay and Minnesota, which both lost to fall to 8-3. 
The Bucs didn't do much cele­brating, though. Coach Tony Dungy said he and his players aren't satisfied merely with guaranteeing themselves a break-even season. 
"That's not something we ever really focused on," the second­year coach said. "I think our team had goals much higher than winning eight games. It's nice. I know its great for the franchise. But it's not an accom­plishment." 
Trent Dilfer threw for 209 yards and one touchdown, Mike Alstott and Errict Rhett scored on 1-yard runs, and Tampa Bay (8-3) also got a pair of 44-yard field goals from Michael Husted. 
The Patriots, who started the day tied for first in the AFC East, were held to 16 yards and no first downs in the first half. They avoided a shutout with Scott Zolak's 6-yard TD pass to Lovett Purnell in the closing seconds. 
"It was a pathetic perfor­mance, considering all the preparation and the time of year it is," New England coach Pete Carroll said. "It was disgusting in all phases, both offensively and defensively. The blame starts with me and works its way down." 
The victory was the third straight for the Bucs (8-3), who are back on track after a S-0 start was followed by three con­secutive losses that raised ques­tions about whether their fastest start in 18 years was a fluke. 
The Patriots were held without a first down until just over four minutes into the third quarter. By then, the Bucs led 17-0 and were well on their way to assur­ing themselves of a non-losing record for just the fourth time in 22 seasons. 
"This shouldn't have happened with the caliber team we have," said Patriots safety Lawyer Milloy. "Hats off to Tampa. It's not a fluke. They're a scary team to play ... I wish we were playing like them." 
Tampa Bay also started 8-3 in 1979 before finishing 10-6 and advancing to the NFC champi­onship game. The Bucs were 9-7 in1981 and last finished above .500 and made the playoffs dur­ing the strike-shortened 1982 season with a 5-4 record. 
While it was difficult to tell how much New England (6-5) was affected by a mid-week nightclub incident involving Bledsoe, Zolak and offensive lineman Max Lane, the Patriots nevertheless lost for the fifth time in seven games since begin­ning the season with four straight victories. 
The incident, in which a woman was injured while the Patriots involved were jumping from a stage, is still under inves­tigation. 
All three played, with Zolak replacing Bledsoe for New England's final drive -a 10­play, 75-yard march that pro­duced the Patriots' TD with eight seconds left. 
"The only thing I'll have to say about this is that Thursday night had absolutely nothing to do with the preparation for this game," Bledsoe said. "It has nothing to do with our commitment to the team. It wasn't a distraction." 
Despite losing a pair of fumbles and only scoring 10 points in the first half, the Bucs were the sharpest they had been on offense in six games. They out­gained the Patriots 125-2 in the opening quarter and had 253 yards and 14 first downs at half­time. 
Rhett's first touchdown of the season finished a 13-play, 80­yard drive that consumed more than eight minutes of the first quarter. Another promising drive stalled at the Patriots 1 when Rhett was stopped for no gain on third down and Dilfer threw a fourth-down incomple­tion with Tampa Bay only lead­ing 7-0. 

ble for that statistic is seven­foot senior center Kirill Misyuchenko, who set a new Citadel single-season record for blocked shots last season with 83. 
Misyuchenko has came off the bench and combined with Newman to compile 25 double­doubles last year, proving a formidable force for any oppos­ing offense. 
It will be the first meeting between Notre Dame and the Citadel, and the first between Irish head coach John Macleod, now entering his sev­enth year as head coach of the Irish, and Dennis, who is in his sixth year with the-Bulldogs. Dennis is 55-79 at the Citadel, coached from 1957-60, for fourth in career victories. 
The key to victory for the Irish lies in being able to spread out its offense so that it is not forced to rely on senior Pat Garrity for all its points. Although it is pretty obvious that Garrity, last year's Big East player of the year and this year's preseason Big East play­er of the year, will get quite used to being double-teamed, but if the Irish can develop a rythm early on and develop some of the team's young tal­ent, they will be better pre­pared when it comes time to face the conference opponents and teams like Indiana. 



LET YOUR NIKE STUDENT REP KNOW AND WE'lL TRY NEXT ISSUE. 

-o-o--·•--­
22 n
21
20 
WOMEN'S WOMEN'S SoctER/V ~WOMEN'S SoccER/V 
AT NCAA SECOND ROUND nAT NCAA SECOND ROUND 
YOUEfiAU/V 
AT BIG EAST CHAMPIONSHIPS WOMEN'S 0 SWIMMING & DIYING/V 
WOMEN'S 
SETON HAll, NJ SWIMMING & DtviNG/V ;: AT MINNESOTA 
FooTBAU!V AT MINNESOTA ft 11:00AM 
VS. WEST VIRGINIA 11:00AM ;: STADIUM, 12:30 PM 
•.. 
0
23 
24 
25 
26 
27 
28 
29 ~ 
WoMEN's VOUEYBAU/V WOMEN's 
WOMEN's M/W lowuNGIC • AT BIG EAST CHAMPIONSHIPS YOUE'faAJ.I./Y VOUEfiAU./V AT NATIONAl COllEGIATE ...._ SETON HAll, NJ WON'T FIT ON 2310... ----··w----O----N----;T·----F---I-T....O....N_..........T---H---.--.-.-------~ AT LONG BEACH TOURNAMENT AT LONG BEACH TOURNAMENT TEAM MATCH GAMES < WOMEN'S SoccER/V 21 vs. UCSB 7·.30 PM ST. LOUIS, MO
WOMEN'S SWIMMING MfW Bo /C I
AT NCAA SECOND ROUND & DIVING/V WLING , 7:30 PM WOMEN'S SoctER/Y fOOTIAUJV <EauESTRIAN/C AT NATIONAl CollEGIATE ,~ wOMENS, SocCEJV -"' ..-AT NCAA THIRD ROUND AT HAWAII • (H T 5 ) AT MINNESOTA TEAM MATCH GAMES ~ 
UN EAT ... 11 __ 00 AM AT NCAA THIRD ROUND AT BALl STATE ST. LOUIS, MO •~--~~~~--~~~~~~~~------------_L_____________l~---·=--·--=-----=---=-----=----=---=---=··--·=-----=-----=-----=-----~'______________L__________________________j ~ 
30 
WoMEN'S SoccERIV ~ifOtoJ Ready for career training camp? This ...._ AT NCAA TH•JD RouND Vl~Ll!}l 2/.!J summer, spend 10 weeks contributing to ~ 

Hi, I'm Colleen Henshaw, your NIKE student rep. Sports1/2Page tracks upcoming sports and NIKE events at Notre Dame. Email me at colleen.henshaw@nike.com with events, athletes or teams you think deserve a mention. If you tried to reach NIKE but couldn't, try sports.halfpage@nike.com _.. 
As the weather gets colder and you head inside to work out, look for me in the gym with thirsty towels for your sweaty bodies _.. In a gut rut? Then check out Zahm abs on the 3rd floor every Sunday-Thursday at 11 :00 pm. It's an ab workout you'll never forget! 
i. ~ the #1 name in sports through NIKE n .......--Internship '98. ~ 
To apply, you must be a sophomore, junior, senior or grad ...._ student in the U.S. during the '97-'98 school year with a 3.0 GPA or higher. Send a scannable resume with your graduation date 
:I 
and a letter describing your academic achievements, extra­.. curricular activities and career interests; two letters of recom­•3 ~ mendation from faculty members or previous employers; and a 
c: 
document showing your GPA and a copy of your most recent ...
•
transcript postmarked by January 2, 1998. For more information, call NIKE at (800) 890-6453 or go to info.nike.com. 

THE GOAL OF THIS SPORT$1/2PAGE IS TO INFORM STUDENTS ABOUT SPORTS ON CAMPUS. NIKE DOES NOT SPONSOR ANY VARSITY. INTRAMURAL OR CLUB SPORTS ON THIS CAMPUS AND THIS PAGE DOES NOT IN ANY WAY IMPLY SUCH SPONSORSHIP 
-~ ----~----~~­
----··------------------l 
! 
The Observer/Brandon Candura 
Sophomore Kara Brown (3) and freshman Kelly Lindsey were pivotal in the Irish's 7·1 win over Cincinnati. 
The Obse•-­
Jenny Streiffer (12), Jen Grubb (6), and Shannon Boxx (5) (!• header after a first-half corner kick. 


Department of Music presents 
J\h1mO:~ Musr 
VESPERS & MASS FOR THE DEDICATION OF A CHURCH 
9:30p.m. Wed., Nov.l9 Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
~cbola :f$lustcoru 
Free and open to the public. 
Soccer 
continued from page 24 
strong against the second­ranked Irish. At 3:55, Hearcats' leading scorer Tina \latlock beat the Irish defense, ripping a shot past a diving LaKeysia Beene. For the first 1i me since the Sept. 19 contest with North Carolina, the Irish round themselves behind in a 
<<arne 
n "(The goal) was my fault," said freshman defender Kelly Lindsey. "I got caught between whether to step up and pull an ol'fsides trap or mark my girl. It was just a mistake and 

The Notre Dame African Students' Association 

& the Center for Social Concerns proudly present: ~ 
HYENAS 

SOCIAL 1992 -113 min. CONCERNS A FEATURE FILM by Djibril Diop Mambety (SENEGAL) "MAMBETY INFLECTS HIS GRIM DRAMA WITH AN EDGE OF CARNNAL HUMOR. THIS FILM CARRIES A STING"--THE NEW YORK TIMES 
In Hyenas, Djibril Diop Mambety brilliantly adapts Swiss dramatist Frederich Diirrenmatt's celebrated parable of human greed, The Visit ofthe Old Woman, into a biting satire of today's Mrica-betraying the hopes of indepen­dence for the false promises ofWestern materialism. An old woman, Linguere Ramatou, returns to Colo bane, the decaying village where she was born, now that she has become the richest woman in the world. She seeks revenge against Dramaan Drameh, the lover of her youth who betrayed her, forcing her out of the village and into a life of prostitution. She offers the villagers a trillion dollars if they will execute Dramaan. At first outraged, they easily become addicted to the pleasures of the consumer society. 
In the end, they literally consume Dramaan, leaving behind only his tattered clothes, like hyenas. Linguere's victory, though, is hollow; she has conquered the world but she has destroyed her ability to love it. In the end, the imaginary Colobane becomes the real Colobane of today, a notorious black market and transit point on the edge of Dakar. Djibril Diop Mambety, one of the true masters ofworld cinema, has created a stunning, if pessimistic, cinematic metaphor for the fate of his continent. 
Followed by .a Panel Discussion on: "ISSUES & REALITIES IN POST COLONIAL AFRICA'' • Wednesday. November 19 • 7:00pm • 155 DeBartolo • Admission Free • 
· http://www.nd.edu/-ndasa 
hopefully it won't happen later." 
"I was upset at the goal we gave up," said Petrucelli, "because it was just a lack of concentration on our part. I don't know that I was that concerned about it. I felt that we were in control of the game." 
Notre Dame flexed its mus­cles, finally connecting on a shot at 14:27. Gerardo tied the score at 1-1, nailing a feed from Kara Brown into the right corner of the net. 
About 14 minutes later, the 
offensive floodgates began to 
open, as Notre Dame took the 
lead for good. Shannon Boxx's 
sliding shot found the back of 
the net, and Brown picked up 
her second assist of the 
evening, dishing off to Anne 
Makinen, who fed Boxx. 
Lindsey put the Irish up 3-1, 
as she dribbled the length of 
the field, split several defend­
ers and beat Bearcats goal­
keeper Christy Hoffman. 
Makinen added to the Irish 
lead with an unassisted goal, 
her 20th of the season, less 
than a minute before halftime. 
Fellow freshman Me otis 
Erikson also netted her 20th 
goal of the year,just over two 
minutes into the second half, 
converting a nice dish from 
Gerardo. 
Gerardo iced the victory with 
the final two Notre Dame tal­
•
lies, her seventh and eighth goals of the year. 
"I just tried to be relaxed," said Gerardo. "It's playoff time, and when things really count, I try to focus myself better. Just go out there relaxed, and not really worry about scoring." 
Last night's game was a emergence of sorts for Gerardo, who collected 43 goals in her first two seasons at Notre Dame, but had been relatively quite this year. 
"Monica's had a funny sea­son because she's played well all year long," said Petrucelli. "She just hasn't scored goals. Forwards are streaky, and it's good to have her on a hot streak right now." 
With Nebraska, 5-1 winners 
over Michigan, looming in the 
second round of the NCAA 
tournament, there's no better 
time for the Irish to peak. 
"Playing in this tournament," 
said Petrucelli, "your first 
game is your hardest game 
always because it's the first 
time all year where you face 
the pressure of 'you lose it's 
over' and that takes some get­
ting used to." 
When the Cornhuskers travel 
to Alumni Field this Sunday 
for a 1 p.m. contest with the 
Irish in the Sweet Sixteen, the 
team and the grounds crew 
will be ready and waiting once 
again. 

J, 
BY}Ess BoRGESoN, ADAM LoNG AND DANIEL SINGER 
DIRECTED BY MARK SEAMON 
WEDNESDAY, Nov. 19 ........ 7-30 PM THURSDAY, Nov. 20 .......... 7:30PM FRIDAY, Nov. 21 .................. 7:30PM SATURDAY, Nov. 22 ........... 7:30PM 
SuNDAY, Nov. 23 ............... 2:30 PM 
.,_ 
PLAYING AT WASHINGTON HALL RESERVED SEATS sS • SENIORS s7 • ALL STUDENTS s6 
TICKETS ARE AVAILABLE AT LAFORTU('IE STUDENT CENTER TICKET OFFICE. MASTERCARD AND VISA ORDERS CALL 6JI-8u8 


en's Soccer TournaiiJ 
1 St. John•s 
1 St. John•s 8 Boston Col 
. (1 -0) 
1 St. John•s 4 Seton Hall 
(4-1)
5 Notre Dam 5 Notre Dame 
(2-0) 
2 Geor etown 2 Georgetown 

3 Rutgers {1 -0) 
• 
Irish 
continued from page 24 
took a pass from Miglioranzi who had stolen the ball. 
Notre Dame finally got on the score­board at the 71 :35 mark when senior co-captain Hyan Turner scored from 12 yards out following a cross from senior Bill Savarino. However, the Hed Storm was not finislwd. Junior Jimmy Buscemi tallied the game's final goal when he scored from just a yard out after Miglioranzi crossed it to him in front of the net. 
The Irish were just simply out­played and struggled tlw entire con­test. St. John's outshot them 21 to seven and had 10 corner kicks to 
---~---~~~------~~~----~­
The Observer • SPORTS 
November 14, 1997 Storrs, Connecticut 
-~~--~----. 
Monday, November 17, 1997 
St. John's 4 Notre Dame 
1 
Despite the play of Reggie McKnight (top), Ben Bocklage (left), and Ryan Turner (below), the Irish were unable to overcome St. John's in the semi-finals of the Big East tournament. 
Notre Dame's none. 
St. John's went on to face Hutgers in the championship game and lost 2-1 in double overtime. Freshman Tim Davidson scored with 9:27 left in the second overtime period to give the Scarlet Knights the win and tlw title. The win marks the l'irst tim11 the Scarlet Knights have won thn Big East men's soccer championship, and tlw school's first Big East titln in any sport. 
On a positive note, Turner was named to thn All-Big East second team. Turner led the Irish in scoring with 11 goals and five assists for a total of 27 points. Notre Dame fin­ished tied 'for fifth in the Big East reg­ular season with a conference record of 5-5-1, and end their season at 10­9-2. 
---~-----~~-----------~--­
----~------------------------~ ­
Monday, November 17, 1997 The Observer • SPORTS page 21 
..~·­
• CROSS COUNTRY 
Mixed results for cross-country runners 
Men await possible NCAA bid 
By KATHLEEN O'BRIEN 
SportsWriter 
The Notre Dame men's cross country team will find out today whether its next meet is next week-or next year. 
The Fighting Irish arc in strong position for an at-large bid to the NCAA cross country championships after a fourth-place finish at the Great Lakes Regional Meet Saturday in Bloomington. Ind. The top two teams in each of nine districts across the country automatically qualify for nationals, as well as four at-large teams. 
The Irish. ranked ninth in the country, have a strong chance of receiving an at­large bid. Michigan and Wisconsin received automatic bids from this district, and Michigan State finished third, ahead of Notre Dame. All three of those teams are among the top eight in the nation. · 
The decision on who gets the at-large bids is based in part on how a team has done against teams which qualified automatically, and also against teams which are on the bubble. Notrn Dame has beaten four teams which have already qualified this season and three teams with a shot at receiving at-large bids. 
"The chances of us getting in are fantastic. I'd be shocked if we don't get an at­large bid," said head coach Joe Pianc. "If Michigan State and Notre Dame don't get in. then the whole system is totally screwed up." 
Top individuals for Notre Dame were senior all-American Jason Rexing in a sev­enth-place time of 31:58 and junior Antonio Arce in a 1Oth place time of 32:02. Hexing and Arce were all-district, and Hexing automatically qualifies for Nationals as an individual. Junior Ryan Maxwell finished 21st, freshman Hyan Shay got 30th, and freshman Anthony Alt placed 36th. 
"''m a little disappointed that I didn't run as much of a team race and ran impa­tiently. These are definitely things I can improve on," said Rexing. "I think we ran below our potential. We got split up a little too much. From the look of things, we'll get a chance to redeem ourselves." 
Piane said this was the first 10,000-meter race ever for five of the runners, which caused some adjustments. The usual race distance is 8,000 meters. The 22 qualifiers for the NCAA championships will be announced this afternoon. The meet will be held in Furman, S.C., on Nov. 25. 
, Cross.Country Weekend Results . ! 

Women place sixth at Great Lakes Region Meet Top Finishers 11th-Alison Klemmer (18:24) 14th -Joanna Deeter (18:27) 
Women fail to qualify for NCAAs 
By KATHLEEN O'BRIEN 
S orrs Writer 
A disappointing end to the Notre Dame women's cross country team's season came Saturday at the Great Lakes Hegion Meet in Bloomington, Ind. 
Wisconsin and Michigan placed first and second, respectively, in the meet to get the automatic bids for the region. 
The team finished sixth in the meet with 178 points, ending hopes of qualifying for the NCAA Championships. Sophomore Alison Klemmer led the team. She fin­ished 11th in 18:24 on the 5,000-meter course, missing an individual spot at Nationals by one place. All-American JoAnna Deeter, also a sophomore, finished 14th in 18:27 after winning the meet last year. 
Other runners for the Irish were, in order of finish from third to seventh, Micke Walsh, Kelly Peterson, Patti Rice, Janel Kiley and Bridget O'Brien. "I wasn't pleased with the outcome Saturday," said coach Tim Connelly, "but I thought we ran hard. We had a good, solid showing." 
"We had a situation where we were counting on being better than we were this year, but Nicole LaSelle's injury hurt us a lot," said Connelly. LaSelle, a sopho­more, finished in the top 10 in every meet last year, but was injured this season. 
"Our kids really pulled together and worked hard," said Connelly, "and I was pleased with that." 
• NFL 
Baltimore and Philadelphia battle to stalemate 
Associated Press 
BALTIMORE 
Both teams called it a loss, which is entirely appropriate because neither Baltimore or Philadelphia played well enough to win. 
The Eagles and Havens played 75 minutes and managed only one touchdown apiece Sunday in a 10-10 tie, the first in the NFL who had three sacks. "That's since 1989. what we were fighting for. It's a 
The Havens (4-6-1) wasted loss for us; there's no other alter­nine sacks, converted only three native to winning." of 15 third-down plays and lost a The Eagles (4-6-1) made only 10-3 lead in the final four min­three first downs in the first half, utes of regulation. managed 63 yards on the ground 
"It's a loss, because now our and botched a chance to win chances of making the playoffs when Chris Bonini's 40-yard field arc pretty dim," said Baltimore goal attempt sailed wide right as defensive end Michael McCrary, overtime expired. 
Notre Dame Goes Cold Turkey 

Join the Notre Dame Community for The Great American Smokeout on November 20, 1997 
Turn in your tobacco products and receive a coupon for a FREE turkey sandwich 
Tobacco products can be turned in at the following times and locations: 
Grace Hall-10:00-10:45 a.m. Joyce Center Gate 2-11:00-11:45 a.m. LaFortune-11:00a.m.-2:00p.m. Both Dining Halls-11:00a.m.-2:00p.m. Library Concourse-l:00-1:45p.m. Hurley Main Lobby-2:00-2:45p.m. Building Services Break Room-3:00-3:45p.m. 
ToBAcco CESSATION MATERIALS WILL BE AVAILABLE 
This program is sponsored by IRISHealth Faculty /Staff Wellness Program, Food Services and The 

The kick came after Baltimore's Matt Stover was wide right on a 53-yard attempt with 2:21 left in the extra period. 
"We had a chance to win it and fell short. A tie is just like a loss to me," Eagles linebacker Willtam Thomas said. 
"Today we didn't get it done," Philadelphia coach Ray Rhodes said. "We battled to stay in the game and kept fighting to tie it up. We had one chance to win and didn't do it." 
Baltimore rookie Jay Graham, subbing for the injured Bam Morris, had 154 yards on 35 car­ries before leaving with an ankle injury halfway through the over­time. Morris was a late scratch because of an ankle injury. 
At least there were a few posi­tives for the Eagles -third­string quarterback Bobby Hoying, making his first NFL start, was 26-for-38 for 276 yards. Rhodes named Hoying his starter because Philadelphia's offense had struggled behind Ty Detmer and Rodney Peete. 

In addition, it was the first time in six road games this season that Philadelphia did not lose. 
"We had our chances to win," Hoying said. 'There were a few things I learned. The one big one is that I have to throw the ball away." 
Baltimore got a 23-yard field goal from Stover with 3:40 remaining for a 10-3 lead, and the Philadelphia offense subse­quently put together its first sus­tained drive of the day. 
Hoying moved the Eagles 60 yards in five plays, going 4-for-4 before Charlie Garner went into the end zone from the 2 with 
1:25 left in regulation. 
-
That was the extent of the offense for the afternoon. It was the first tie since the Cleveland Browns (who are now the Ravens) tied Kansas City 10-10 on Nov. 19, 1989. 
Baltimore went up 7-0 in the first quarter on Vinny Testaverde's TO pass to Michael Jackson on a fourth-and-2 play. J.. Jackson took a short pass, got a fine block from tackle Jonathan Ogden and sprinted down the left sideline for his first score in seven weeks. 
• SPORTS BRIEFS 
' Notre Dame Martial Arts Institute-'-Tae kwon do and jujitsu practice for beginners will take place from 4 to 6 
p.m. 
on Thursdays and 6 to 8 

p.m. 
on Sundays in Room 218 Rockne Memorial. All are 


welcome~ 
..
Field Hockey -Practice will be on Mondays and Wednesdays from 9 to 10 
p.m. in Loftus. Call Maureen at x4281 or Stephanie at x27 41 with any questions. 
Synchronized Swimming ­Practices are held on Mondays and Wednesdays from 8 to 10 p.m. and Sundays from 10 a.m. to 1 p.m. 
~ --------------------------------------------------------­
page 22 The Observer • SPORTS Monday, November 17, 1997 
• VOLlEYBALL 
Irish take top seed in Big East Tournament 
--_.: 
~ 
.. 
By BILL HART 
Sports Writer 
Notre Dame's volleyball team complet­ed its conference regular season sched­ule by heading eastward once again. In a series similar to the entire season as a whole, offensive strength prevailed, and the Irish regained sole possesion of first place in the conference heading into the Big East tournament. 
The Irish began their weekend sched­ule by traveling to Piscataway, N . .I., on Saturday to face off against Rutgers, who is ninth place in the conference. The Irish turned in an extraordinary offensive performance once again, defeating the Scarlet Knights in three games, 15-4, 15-7, 15-7. 
Notre Dame was led by senior hitters Angie Harris and Jaimie Lee, who had 13 and nine kills respectively. Lee had no errors during the course of the match, while sophomore middle Mary Leffers chipped in with seven kills. Freshman opposite Christi Girton also helped the Irish cause. tallying eight kills on . 615 hitting. 
Rutgers was led by Lola Opadarian, who had 18 kills in the loss. With the loss, the Knights fall to 3-7 in confer­ence play and have been eliminated from the race for berths in next week's Big East tournament. 
On Sunday, the Irish ended their regu­lar season conference schedule against Seton Hall, another team hoping for a berth in the tournament. However, the Pirates' hopes were dashed in another three-game win for the Irish. 15-2, 15-3, 15-3. 
Notre Dame was led by another spec­tacular performance from Harris, who tallied 18 kills in 25 attempts. Harris committed no errors during the contest for a phenomenal . 720 hitting percent­age. Lee had eight kills and seven digs during the match, and Girton added nine kills to the Irish score. 
The Pirates, who only used six players on the squad, were led by senior hitter lowers their record to 16-14 on the sea­son and 4-6 in conference play. 
The Irish, now 11-0 in the Big East and 21-6 overall, have won their last eight matches, and 15 of their last 16. The victory against Hutgers on Saturday allowed the Irish to r.linch sole possession of first place in the Big East conference, while the win against the Pirates yesterday was Notre Dame's 74th straight conference victory. leap­ing over Texas for the third-longest conference winning streak in Division I volleyball history. 
The Irish will return to Seton Hall next weekend for the Big East tourna­ment that runs Nov. 22-23. With this weekend's victories, the Irish clinch the first seed in the tournament. 
With only six teams competing, the Irish will have a bye before playing their first opponent in the semifinals, during the final day of competition. This year, the goals for Notre Dame are clear: to win the tournament for the third consecutive year and host a match in the upcoming NCAA Tournament. 
"I'd say our chances are about 40 percent that we would get a home berth in the NCAAs," head coach Debbie Brown commented, "but I think they could improve. If we could win one of the two matches after the Big East Tournament, I think we would have a much better shot." 
Heading into the tournament, many Irish players are set to leave their mark in the record books. Harris' perfo r­mance this weekend raises her career kill total to 1,471, tied with volleyball alumna Zanette Bennett for second place in Irish history. Lee's 1,303 career kills rank fourth at Notre Dame. just four ahead of another Irish volley­ball great, Jessica Fiebelkorn. 
After the Big East tournament, Notre Dame will finish off their regular sea­son with a trip out to the West Coast for one of their most difficult road trips in recent history. The Irish will face off 


SUMMER JOB OPPORTUNITIES 
KIDS CORPORATION 
• operates summer schools in Newark, NJ 
• 
sponsors 6,000 children each summer to Kids Camp, an outdoor "classroom" day camp in Warren County, NJ 

• 
hires college students interested in the educational needs of young urban children to work in our schools or at Kids Camp 

• 
provides room and board, three college credits in Urban Education from 


St. Vincent College, plus $125 gross per week 
273-3890 

The Observer/Joe Stark 
Senior Angie Harris led the team with 13 kills in Saturday's win against Rutgers. 

Every Monday 
The work is hard, the hours are long, the KIDS and STAFF ARE GREAT! 
14" Cheese Pizza for $7.95 
The program runs from June 2 I tfuough August 15, 1998
($1.00 per each additional topping) All-You-Can-Eat 
Ifyou are interested in learning more, see us at 
Pizza and Pasta for $5.00 

The Lounge at The Center for Social Concerns 
Hours: 

Wednesday, November I 9 
Sun.-Thurs. 4:00-10:00 
5:00 to 7:00p.m. (pizza provided!) 
Fri.-Sat. 4:00-11:00 
Mon.-Fri. Lunch 11:00-1:30 
or 6:00-9:30 CALL US AT (908) 362-7410 
Come and watch Monday Night Football 
NET SITE: HTTP://www.kidscamps.com/daycamps/Kidscamps/ 
273-3890 
II 
sT I L L T H E B E sT II 

--~­
• 
MEN ABOUT CAMPUS 

Monday, November 17, 1997 The Observer • TODAY page 23 
DAN SULLIVAN YOUR HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 
divine behavior from mere mortals. Someone is having a bad day. Play by the rules, and enjoy your self image. 
Scorpio: Taking care of your partner is the best thing you could do today. You are connected to oth­ers in ways that you don't always realize. Your mind keeps returning to spiritual matters. 
Sagittarius: You've been having too much fun, and today the piper shows up to demand his wages. You need to establish a balance between your fun side and your serious side. Reserve some energy for important tasks. 
Capricorn: Once again you are caught between the need to work and the desire to have a private life. The current excitement of your professional situation makes your decision obvi­ous. Success pays off across the board. 
Aquarius: A lunch with co-workers inspires you to do something wildly differ­ent for a change. You become depressed when you realize the daily rut into which you have fallen. Too much though will not move you any faster toward action. 
Pisces: Children will need your attention today. Caring for someone else­may be a chore, but you can let yourself have fun with it, too. Extended speaking of another lan­guage works a lasting change on your perspec­tive. 
... 
"· 
i 
i' 
\ 
'I 
I. 
I 
EY 
MIKE PETERS 

DILBERT 
TIN/\ I WE'RE CHA.NGlNG THE. J"OB TITLE..S Of ALL NON-iEC\4NICA.L PEOPLE.. 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 37--Ababa 38 Rural outing 
1 Response to an 41 Fine gold andinsult enamelware5 Tibetan monk 43 Viper9 Snack chip 44 Swiss peak 14 Prefix with 45 Question'sdynamic opposite: Abbr. 
15 Pastoral poem 46 t, 8, 27, 64, etc.
16 "Not you-!" 
51 That: Sp. 
17 Expressway 52 It's 21% oxygen access 53 Stallone title 18 Big bag role19 Saltine brand 57 Components of 20 Attractions near some autothe Nile 
engines23 Doorway 
62 Screen symbols 24 Elderly 
64 Grand Dragon's 25 Orthodontist's group org. 65 Barely passing 28 Sights around grades road repairs &&"-and 33 "Quiet!" Punishment" 36 Fishing 67 Table of equipment contents, e.g. 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

COLLECUVEL'< 1 YOU'LL BE KNOWN A.S OUR 
S.C.C. GROUP. 
68 spumante {wtne) 
69 18 on a golf course 70 Canyon effect 71 Distribute, with "out" 
DOWN 
1 "Beetle Bailey" character 2 Gain knowledge 3 Medieval helmet 4 Warhol's genre 5 Have trouble with esses 
6"A~apple­
7 Sherlock Holmes's brother 
8 Acid neutralizer 9 "Schindler's 
List" villain to Elderly 11 Prophetess of 32"-tothe Greek myth West Wind" t2Strike 33 Mold 13"Put­34 Devil's domain Happy Face" 35 Swift watercraft 21 Scandinavian 39 Third man in the war god ring 22 1600, to Cato 40Anger 26 Condescend 41 Winter bug Z7 Biblical beasts 42 Police alert, for of burden short Z9Common 44 Kind of paint conjunction 
47 Convertible or 10 Finder's-coupe, e.g. 11 Taxi 4BAmuse 
SCOTT ADAMS 
I LIKE THE SOUND OF IT-VERY DIGNIFIED. WE WE.RE BEGINNING TO FEEL LIKE. SE.COND­CLt>.,S5 CITI..ZENS. WHAT'S 
S.C.C. STANO FOR"? 
) 

Aries: You are in demand today, but this is not neces­sarily a good thing. Too many people want your attention, and some of them may be overly emo­tional. 
Taurus: Today your inner child is holding its posses­sions close and shouting, "Mine! Mine!" Perhaps you could use a little alone time with your toys. Just be sure not to get too carried away and shut others out of your life. 
Gemini: The Twins have differing ideas about how you should spend your day. Square pegs jockey for position above a round hole that they will never fit. 
Cancer: Your day begins like a neatly cracked egg, and arrives at the table as the perfect omelet. Please your own palate today, but take good care of the oth­ers in your life as well. 
Leo: Your emotions are close to the surface today. All those around you will register every moment of your joy or suffering. Family and friends are especially in tune with you, sharing your highs and lows. 
Virgo: The drinks are on you today. Celebrate a major accomplishment with friends, even if they don't understand exactly what it is you've done. A seemingly small improve­ment has a major effect on your work environment. 
Libra: You've been doing a fme job, so why the criti­cal performance review? Someone is expecting 

Wanted: Reporters, photographers and editors. Join The Observer staff. 
Makin' Life Happy 
49 White-tailed eagle 50 Iraq's Hussein 54 Reagan Attorney General Edwin 55 Royals great George 5& Actor Davis 
58 "This one's 
59 Applies 60Whip 61 "What's gotten 
-you?" 62 German "I" 63--Magnon 
Answers to any three clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone: 1·900·420·5656 (75e per minute). 
Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1·888·7-ACROSS. 


• 
Government 
-----~ 
--------~~­
t 
' Football 
I 
I 
I t 
I 
~ 
~ 
I 


page 24 
• Mtrll'S SOCCER 
Notre Dame fails to weather the Storm 
By TOM STUDEBAKER in five minutes of the kickoff'. and DAN LUZIETTI Junior Stefani Miglioranzi Sports Writers received a pass from fellow junior Shane Mulholland and 
Unable to weather the Red shot it past Irish junior goalie Storm, the Notre Dame men's Greg Velho. soc-cer team fell to (iefending The Red Storm did not ld national champi-up, as they coli­on St. John's in tinually pr,•s­the Big East tour-sured the Irish nament semifi-defense. At tlw nals on Friday by St. John's 19-minuto marl.;:, a score of4-1. junior Hobnrt 
The game was 4 Wile took a cross played in harsh Notre Dame from Mulholland 
weather condi-and was able to tions and both 1 roofVelho to gi\e teams were St. John's a 2-0 
slowed by the 30-L____________jlead going into degree weather including the half. snow and sleet throughout the The sr,cond half was mort· of game. It was a difficult task to the same for the. Irish. as St. deal with defending champi­John's continued the relent­ons under these circum­less pressure. Senior Jess I) stances. Van Saun scored from I 5 St. John's came out of the yards on a breakaway after he gates quickly and scored with­
seeiRISH I page 20 
• WOMEN's SOCCER 
Gerardo's hat trick leads Irish Squad's first war 
By ALLISON KRILLA 
SportS Writer 
against The Citadel 
What began as a potential 
By BETSY BAKER that the Bulldogs dropped theirnightmare turned into a walk 
Associate Sports Editor first season-opener ever under
in a winter wonderland for head coach Pat Dennis last
the Notre Dame women's soc­
--
The Notre Dame men's bas­Friday, losing (J6-58 to Francis
cer team. 
ketball team kicks off its regu­Marion, there is no doubt theySeveral inches of snow blan­lar season tonight at home will come to South Bend hungry 
keted Alumni Field, pushing 
against The Citadel at 7:30p.m. for a win.
the start of the opening round 
The Irish made their first The Bulldogs are led by
NCAA tournament game 
public appearanee of the 1997-junior forward Virgil Stevens,
between Notre Dame and 
98 se<:tson a couple of weeks who averaged 14.4 points lastCincinnati back three hours to ago in the Blue-Gold intrasquad season and had 16 points and
allow the grounds crew time scrimmage, and then played five rebounds against Francis
to clear the field. 
somr, competition outside of Marion.
_.,_ The Irish did the rest. defeating the Bearcats 7-1 their own team in last Sunday's Following Stevens is 6-foot-R 
behind the hot foot of junior exciting exhibition 78-77 win center Matt Newman who had over Athletes in Action. 15 points and collected seven
forward Monica Gerardo. "The big key was that we've 
llowever, tonight's contest off the boards against the got a grounds crew that did a 
against the Bulldogs will the Patriots. great job clearing the field," 
first true tr,st of thn young, but The statistie that should eon­talented Irish. eern the Irish, however, is the
said head coach Chris Petrucelli. "Those are the 
Although the Bulldogs are fact that the Bulldogs led the MVPs, those are the guys who coming off a 13-14 season last Southern Conference in field get the game ball, because if 
year, they've shown definite goal percentage defense la'>t we had to play on a field of signs of improvement. The 13 year. holding opposing teams to snow, who knows?" wins were the most The Citadel just 39 pr,rcent from the floor. 
Cincinnati (16-5-3) started had colloected since the 19RR-One of the players responsi­89 season. And despite the faet see SOCCER I page 19 Junior Monica Gerardo's three ::oal effort paced the team to a 7-1 win. see B-BALL I page 18 


vs. West Yirgini:1 vs. Ferris State, 
... 
November 22, I :.~0 ! ;n. 
November 20, 7 p.m. 
• Colts upset Packers 
Women's Swim ar !\r · >na 
vs. The Citadel November 21. 10 a. 
November 17, 7:30p.m. see page 14 vs. Nebr:1ska 
Basketball at Kalamazoo 
• Volleyball clinches regular season title 
November 2.), I I' · November 21, 8 p.m. 
see page 22 
vs. Butle-r 
Swimming at Albion November 18, 7 p.1:1. November 19, 7:30 p.m. 






