llllll........._~=~--~....~.lus..aa~~......s:~....ll....~..£1.......................................... 
• Students studying in Maynooth, Ireland, describe the stereotypes they face as American students in a for­eign nation. 
p.3 
-
'$S_J.
. 
·.·' .. 
~ ~ 


Friday, November 21, 1997 • Vol. XXXI No. 59 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Students stand vigil outside Indiana State Prison 

Group uses WV game to protest land mine use 
Students invited to 'raise a shoe' as tribute to victims 
By ANNE MARIE MATTINGLY News Writer 
This December, 113 countries will approve an international ban on land 
mines; the U.S. is not among them. In an effort to show support for the ban, several Notre Dame students have founded the Notre Dame Campaign to Ban Land Mines and are organizing the "One shoe in the air, one hand on the heart" campaign for this 
.-=-·•~ ·~ 
• Observer editorial, "Students have right idea in urging U.S. to 
ban mines." 
p.13 
Saturday's football game against West Virginia. 
The group is asking students to hold one shoe over their heads while plac­ing the other hand over their hearts during the playing of the national anthem at Saturday's game. The ges­ture is intended to draw attention to the fact that the most common injury caused by the explosion of land mines is the loss of one leg, an occurrence that has prompted the sale of single shoes in Bosnia, Cambodia, Angola and Afghanistan. 
"It's a good opportunity to pay respect to the people who have risked, lost, and had their lives seriously altered by land mines," said Mike Deemer. a graduate student in the Peace Studies program who is helping to organize the event. 
Land mines injure or kill an ave·rage of 70 people every day, according to niers distributed by the campus group; 
see MINES/ page 12 

The Last of the Home Games 
• 
Check out this weekend's schedule ofevents on p. 3 

• 
Scope our the opposition in the Irish Insider. 


By HEATHER COCKS News Editor 
MICHIGAN CITY, Ind. 
While the clock counted down the min­utes until Gary Burris's execution early yesterday morning, more than 60 members 
of the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's community prayed quietly together near the Indiana State Prison. 
Notre Dame groups and area residents traveled to the jail in Michigan City to stand in protest of cap­ital punishment both before and after prison 

officials put Burris to Gary Burris death by lethal injection. · 
A jury convicted Burris in 1980 for the murder of Kenneth Chambers, an Indianapolis taxi-driver. Burris allegedly robbed Chambers of $40, forced him to shed his clothes, and shot him execution­style. 
"For me, this was a chance to act on a strong opinion of mine," said senior Kimberly Rosenkoetter. "I haven't been 
see VIGIL! page 6 

~..~--~--..............~..~~--~..~.._ 
• The women's soccer team heads inro round 2 of the NCAA tourney in a quest for its second national title in three years. p. 32 


1'_•.···~-.~iUI l ~' 

The Observer/Kevin Dalum 
O
f the group that stood vigil outside the prison where Gaty Burris died early Thursday morning, some chose to hold their signs and chant, while others simply knelt and prayed (pictured left). Above, a member of "Blacks United to Save the Hood" stands against capital punishment. 
Pholos courtesy of Frances Shavers 
Jamie Spencer, a fullback on the Notre Dame football team, poses with elementary school children after reading to them. Shown left, Jim Sanson (far lefi:, football), Angela Bessolo (softball), Allen Greene (baseball), Matt Johnson (soccer), Carrie Gulick (track) and Kerry Audley (women's lacrosse) are also active in communiry service. 
Athletes carry love of community service beyond ND to pro careers 
By COLLEEN McCARTHY News Writer 
A
t the 1995 Fiesta Bowl, the Notre Dame football team took time out of its sched­uled practices before the game to visit the residents of a hospi­tal in Phoenix. 
Senior wide receiver Malcolm Johnson distinctly remembered the residents' response. 
"We gave them a boost and brightened their day even if it was only for 20 minutes," Johnson said. "It was the most rewarding experience. Coach [Lou] Holtz made service work important and now Coach [Bob] Davie is continuing to also." 
Student athletes receive a strong foundation in volun­teerism when they first arrive on campus and become acquainted with the athletic department's Life Skills pro-
see SERVICE page 4 
a a 
a u ~&U *-!A
--• :en a 
Friday, November 21, 1997
The Observer • INSIDE 

utside the Dome 
Compiled from U-Wire reports 
Universities reconsider validity of standardized testing 
page 2 
• INSIDE COlUMN 


Win or Lose 

When we come to Notre-;~~~~~~""':"' 
Dame as freshmen, two of the categories into which we can be divided are those who have seen an Irish football game and those who anticipate the experience. 
My first game experi­


ence came at Chicago's  Dan Cichalski  
Wrigley Field against  Assistant Managing  
Northwestern. Twenty  Ediror  
nine games ­ 23 home  

and six away -later, I sit here on the eve of 
my fmal game in the Stadium. 

The won-lost record of those games I've seen escapes me, but each one has been spectacu­lar. There was the Michigan loss in 1994, a great game despite the final score. There was the Texas game in 1995 and the Washington game last year, where two ranked teams came into South Bend and were thoroughly embar­rassed. 
That first game at Northwestern was where I learned the fight song and saw the cheerlead­ers lead the "We Are ND" chant in another sta­dium. I was there for Ivory Covington's game­saving tackle against Army in the Meadowlands. And last year, when Boston College tied the game in the third quarter, I saw the lrish,storm back to plaster the Eagles with three late touchdowns. 
The point is, win or lose, each and every Notre Dame game I've seen as a student has been wonderful. I've left each time hoarse and exhausted after putting everything I've got into cheer, cheering for old Notre Dame. 
Unfortunately, not everyone who leaves a Notre Dame football game leaves his or her voice behind. A month ago, after a loss to USC, Bob Davie criticized the fans for not supporting the Irish in their attempt to stage a comeback. 
To some extent, he had a point. 
Eighty thousand fans in South Bend are not as loud as 80,000 fans in Gainesville, Fla.; Knoxville, Tenn.; Lincoln, Neb.; or Columbus, Ohio. 
The reason was expressed last week, when Davie talked about the fans at LSU. He made­the point that the fans who watch the Tigers · come every week from all over Louisiana, and they're always pumped for every game. The fans who come to watch the Irish come from all over the country each week, and the regu­lars are fewer. 
Another problem: Notre Dame Stadium is full of "old fans." 

You've heard of "old money" and "new money"? Well, it works for football too. Three weeks ago, against Navy, !looked across at the seats -no bleachers there -behind the visit­
.ing team's bench. Empty. 

Well, at least 60 percent empty. Seems the people who are rich and important enough to afford those seats are rich and important enough to leave them empty because of a little rain. Those tickets could be put to good use if they were given to the children of South Bend who walk around campus looking for football players to sign their books. 
My point is, this is an important game tomor­row, one that will decide if the Irish get to play in December, or even January. Those players will need our support, whether it's Powlus at quarterback or Jackson; whether they go for the first down or a field goal on fourth-and­seven; whether they win or lose.The last time Notre Dame played West Virgina, the Irish left Arizona with a national championship. 
So let's forget the cold weather and imagine the game's in Tempe, not South Bend. And let's cheer like it too. 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
• Tootw's STAFF  
News  Accent  
Heather Cocks  Joe Weiler  
Sarah Hiltz  Graphics  
Nicole Swartzentruber  Dave Piening  
Sports  Production  
Sarah Dylag  Laura Petelle  
Allison Krilla  Lab Tech  
Viewpoint  Katie Kroener  
Tara Churik  Anthony Shaker  



EVANSTON, Ill. 

Every year, more than 1 million high school seniors take the SAT and ACT in hopes of scoring high enough to get into the college of their choice. 
But those standardized tests are get­ting criticism for being biased against minorities, women and low-income students. And some universities are asking if the tests provide an accurate 

"If it doesn't do what it's supposed to
correlation of students' performances. 
do, which is to predict how students
"Numerous studies have questioned 
will fare in college, then why use it?"
the SAT's ability to predict college suc­
said Paredes, UCLA vice chancellor for
cess for minority students," said a 
academic development. "For certain
report by the University of California 
students, the SAT doesn't have a pre­
system's Latino Eligibility Task Force. 
dictive value." 
"Equally pressing concerns are the 
Eligibility for Hispanic students in UC
data associations between 1ow test 
system schools would increase 59 per­
scores and levels of parental income." 
cent without the SAT scores, the report
The task force recommended that the 
said. Eligibility for all high school stu­
standardized tests be optional for UC 
dents would increase between 12.3
system applicants in hope of increasing 
percent and 16.9 percent. 
Hispanic enrollment, said Haymund 
A UC senate committee is looking at
Paredes, a task force member. 
the proposal. In Texas. students who are in the top 10 percent of their dass are automatically accepted into the public university system regardless of their SAT or ACT scores. Both states are hoping to boost minority enroll­ment in the wake of affirmative action rollbacks. 
But Northwestern sodology professor James Witte said eliminating SAT scores is not going to solve the prob­lems in California and Texas. 
"For minority enrollment, the game starts early," Witte said. "It requires much earlier intervention. Dropping the SATs is not going to help these kids. It's getting minorities of all types ready to compete at a fair level. The floor's got to be brought up in the education system." 
The real problem with the tests stems from people thinking the test is supposed to predict a student's overall college performance, Witte said. 
• UNIVERSITY Of COLORADO 
New stimulant gains popularity 
BOULDER, Colo. 
Most people wouldn't think of gulping down a tall cool glass of antifreeze. But mix it with lantern fuel, drain cleaner and Sudafed and people might inject the concoc­tion directly into their bloodstream. This blend of chemi­cals is the recipe for one of Colorado's newest drug trends -methamphetamine. With varieties such as crank, crys­tal meth and icc, methamphetamine use is on the rise in the Centennial State and the problem appears to be spreading. While meth use is highest in Denver, the stimu­lant is quickly gaining popularity across the state. "There certainly has been an incline here in Boulder County." said Boulder police Sgt. Pat llaugse. "But it makes sense. Meth isn't difficult to manufacture and its ingredients are easy to get a hold of. It's a problem that's likely to grow." In 1996 alone, police busted 28 clandestine meth labs in Colorado, more than double the number of the previous year. 
• UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA-DAVIS 
El Nino to affect global economy 
DAVIS, Calif. 

Not only will this winter's El Nino cause a potential increase in rainfall, according to research done by Daniel Sumner, professor of agricultural and resource economics, and associate professor of economic research Hyunok Lee, the weather phenomenon may also affect the global economy. "We're looking at this year's El Nino with two things in mind," Sumner said. "One, we're watching how the El Nino effect is progressing and affecting agricultural production (such as) crop yields and acreage planted." Secondly, Sumner is looking for evidence that people in the agricultural markets are making use of the forecasts for the El Nino, no matter what actually happens. Both Lee and Sumner have been researching the economic effects of forecasting El Nifl.os for the past year and a half. focusing particularly on how forecasts will affect the "international grain -wheat, corn, rice-markets." 
• SOUTH BEND WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forcast 
AccuWeather®forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 
Friday Saturday Sunday Monday 
,> 
~ 
~ ~ ~ 

Tuesday .··~ 
\.5"/\r--····-....-....;·-"\1_;·" . 

H L 
38 28 41 26 33 22 28 15 36 22 
• UNIVERSITY OF CONNECTICUT 

Students and faculty stage sleep out 
STORRS, Conn. 
Sixty UConn students and one faculty member braved 
the 20-degree weather Wednesday night for "Love 
Shack" -a sleep-out fund-raising event, as a part of 
Hunger and Homelessness week. The event, held to raise 
consciousness about homelessncss, included an 
overnight sleep-out in cardboard boxes, guest speakers, 
and a candlelight vigil. The sleep-out, including the 
"Love Shack" and cardboard city, were constructed by 
Habitat for Humanity, according to Carlye Thomson, a 
seventh-semester psychology major and Habitat for 
Humanity volunteer. The speakers and events were 
sponsored by UConn PIRG beginning with a speech by 
local State Rep. Denise Merrill. "It's really hard to 
l'lelieve the state would spend $107 million on a football 
stadium when there are so many other needs," Merrill 
said, who had just returned from the legislativ1~ hearings 
for UConn football in Ilartford. 
• UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA-LOS ANGELES 

Prisons win out over schools 
LOS ANGELES 
Believe it or not, prisons directly affect students, and the undergraduate student council (USAC) has launched a program designed to tnll you why. USAC is currently hold­ing presentations on the issue of prisons vs. education, and how funding for prisons and prisoners has surpassed the amount spent on education. According to booklets dis­tributed during the presentations, California spends almost $27,898 per year on each inmate and only $12,005 on each UC student."Thc money that is going to fund pris­ons can be used on higher education or health care," said USAC president Kandea Mosley. "Where are the nation's priorities?" Organized by offices of the USAC president and external vice president, the prison vs. education pre­sentations are one part of a larger program titled "Education Campaigns." This campaign embodies a wide range of subjects and issues that deal with students and Californians. 
• NATIONAL WEATHER 
The AccuWeather®forecast for noon, Friday, Nov 21. 
Lines separate high temperature zones for the day. 


HIGH  LOW  SHOWERS  RAIN  T·STORMS  FLURRIES  SNOW  ICE  SUNNY  Pr CLOUDY  CLOUDY  
Atlanta  62  47  Dallas  65  47  Miami  82  71  
Baltimore  54  44  Denver  46  24  Middlebury  42  36  

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved.  Q,~,~q~Q Showers r..storms Rain Flurries Snow Ice  ~ Sunny  ~ u Pl. Cloudy Cloudy  Baton Rouge Chicago Columbus  70 39 45  56 29 40  Honolulu Indianapolis Los Angeles  83 44 79  70 39 56  New York Phoenix St. Louis  54 77 48  43 48 39  
'  • "  •  •  I  - ~ I  •  •  •  •  •  I  •  •  '  I  W t'  f  I  I  t  t  • t  '  • #_ f  II# I  f  4  f .f. t  f f .f I  f_ 4, 1, £ .J J .f  '>  f.,; f  j  f  t  ''"'  • '  4 J  '  


Friday, November 21, 1997 
'''··=~­
Friday, November 21 

9a.m.·7 p.m. Hours of operallon Nntre Dame Booksto~e 10 a.m..1 &3p.m. Saint Mary's campus tours 122leMan~ Hall 11a.m.·9 p.m. Hours of operation Irish Express11a.m., 3p.m. Notre Dame campus tours Grace Hall 3p.m. . Glee Club performance Grace Hall courtyard3&3:30p.m. Center for the Homeless tours Main Circle 4:30p.m. Marching band rehersal Fieldhouse Mall 4:30p.m. Walsh Wild Weekend Parade Bond Hall 6p.m. Men's swimming vs. Air Furce RolfsAquattcCenter6:20p.m. Porn pons, cheerleaders perform Joyce Centtr 7p.m. Pep Rally . Joyce Center8p.m. Play, "Compleat Works ofWIIm. Shkspr." Washington f:la!l 
Saturday;N;;;_;b~~''22'-"''---''"''M' ..·.... 
8a.m.-a p.m.8a.m.-9 p.m. 9&10a.m. 9:30a.m. 10a.m.-5 p.m. 10a.m. 10:40a.m. 11:30a.m. 12 noon 1:10p.m 
1:30 p.m. 30 min. after game 4:45·7 p.m. 
8, 10& 11:45a.m. 10 a.m.-4 p.m. 1p.m. 
Hours of operation Hours of operation Saint Mary's campus tours Closed AA meeting Hours of operation Porn pons, cheerleaders perform Porn pons, cheerleaders perform Glee Club • NO in Revue Marching Band concert Pre-game show Fighting Irish vs. West Virginia Mass Candlelight buffet 
Mass Hours of operation Women's soccer vs. Nebraska 

The Observer/Dave Piening 
Weekly Specials 

The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Learning the 'American' way 
very welcoming but you said Mallon. 

Students encounter 
encounter stereotypes," said "I had a guy say to me, 'I JoEllen Jeselnick, a student on would never want to go to

Irish stereotypes of 
the program. America because why would I · 
US. lifestyle, people "People greeted me in a want to come home to a family Southern accent, as if everyone like "Married With Children"?"' from the United States was from related Jeselnick. 
By BRIDGET O'CONNOR 
the South,'.' said Sean Mallon, a Reagan said, "I hold back a lot
Ireland Correspondent 
native of Philadelphia who has because I'm afraid that I'm lived in Ireland for the last two going to offend someone.

MAYNOOTH, Ireland 
years and has been visiting all always have to be on my guard

T
he 17 students on the Saint 
his life. so that I don't prove any of the 

Mary's College Ireland 
Other stereotypes that the stu­stereotypes true inadvertently." 

Program never dreamed 
dents encountered in Ireland McHugh did note, however

that spending a year in Ireland 
include that all or most that '"The Simpsons' reaffirms

would make them feel so Amer­
Americans are fat or stupid, that that there could be some intelli­
ican. 
every American family owns a gence [in the United States] in

"I don't understand what it is 
gun, that American girls are that they share our satirical

that makes them know that 
"easy," that every teenager has humor."

we're Amer;::ans. They can't 
their own car and that everyone Another factor that can foster

pinpoint one characteristic," 
in the U.S. is racist. the stereotypes is tourism, the

explained Beth Beatty. "They 
"[The Irish people] think I'm students said. 

just say it's something about us." 
obnoxious and closed-minded -"A lot of people think that

For many of the students on 
that I don't care about anything Americans are rich because they

the program, the idea that they 
outside my own country," stu­see the tourists throwing their

act, dress or think like an 
dent Brigid Reagan said. money around," said Patrick

American, or that there is even 
Said Mallon, "A lot of the Irish Geraghty, an Irish student. 

an identifiable "American" way 
would be very anti-American, Despite the fact that tourism is

of doing any of these things, is 
resenting the fact that we come the largest industry in Ireland,
quite strange. 
over here with the attitude, as some bitterness arises as a

"You can spot an American 
they perceive it, that everything result of the Americans that

from 50 yards away," said Barry 
in the U.S. is bigger and better. come over. Many of the students 

McHugh, an Irish student at 
"Many of them believe that we felt that the Irish get an unfair

National University of Ireland, 
are too proud and too patriotic, representation of typical

Maynooth. "It's like [they] have 
especially being a comparatively Americans because they never

an American flag above [their] 
new country," he added. consider the idea that many of
heads." 
Most of the students attributed these tourists had saved for

The discussion of what it 
the bulk of the stereotypes to the years to pay for their vacations: 

means to be a typical American 
influence of American television The nature of the country has

is often among the first things 
programs broadcast in Ireland. also been seen as contributing to 

that the students here discuss 
"Sadly enough, they judge us the development of the stereo­

when they meet an Irish person. 
from what they see on Ricki types. Because the country is

"Generally they have been 
Lake and Sally Jesse Raphael,'' isolated geographically and the population is fairly homoge­neous, many felt that visitors stand out more than they would in other countries. As to whether or not Irish stu­dents would feel the same way if they spent a year in the United States, opinions varied. "I don't think that they would feel the same way because our country is so diversified,'' said Jeselnick. "We wouldn't even know that they were Irish until they started to speak." Some felt that the stereotypes of Irish that Americans have would not run as deeply as those held towards Americans. "I think that these sentiments are directed specifically toward Americans," explained Reagan. "There are going to be stereo­types like that they are always drunk, but that stereotype exists here in Ireland too. We don't have any reason to be bitter 

BY jEss BoRGESON, ADAM LoNG AND DANIEL SINGER 
towards the Irish like they seem 

to be toward us." While dealing with these atti­WEDNESDAY, Nov. 19 ........ 7:3oPM THURSDAY, Nov. 20 .......... T30 PM 
DIRECTED BY MARK SEAMON 
tudes toward Americans has FRIDAY, Nov. 21 ................. T30 PM SATURDAY,-Nov. 22 ........... 7:30PM 
been difficult for the students on SuNDAY, Nov. 23 ............... 2:30 PM 
the program, most felt that they 


had or will soon break through the stereotypes. 
"I think it just takes some time for them to get to know you," said Jeselnick. 

PLAYING AT WASHINGTON HALL RESERVED SEATS $8 • SENIORS $7 • ALL STUDENTS $6 
' 
TICKETS ARE AVAILABLE AT LAFORTUNE STUDENT CENTER TICKET OFFICE. MASTERCARD AND VISA ORDERS CALL 6JI-8128 
,•... '·:t. 



SOUTH BEND 
250 East Sample Street 
+ Nationwide +Free Guarantee Estimates 


234-1925 
+ Oven Baked + Expert Finish Body Repair 
Bodyworl<, rust repair and stripping of old paint extra. Vans, trucks and commercial vehicles by Additional surtace preparation may be necessary. Not valid with any other offer. MAACO Auto Bodyworks centers are independEJnt lranchises of MAACO Enterprises, Inc. Prices, hours and 


\'\ bener get 


~~~~~~~~~~~lf~~~~ 
Tee Times available 7days in advance 
Pro Shop Hours 
s~t-Sun 6:00-5:00 Mon-Fri 6:30 -5:00 
VISIT OUR PRO SHOP IN THE 
ROCKNE MEMORIAL 
.....--------------...--­
--~ -~----~~ ~ 
page 4 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS Friday, November 21, 1997 
formed the program in 1996 in an effort to encourage kids to

Service 
continued from page 1 
gram. Throughout their time on campus, many athletes use the program's opportunities to vol­unteer for local charitable caus­es; foP some of these men and women, continuing community service after graduation is only natural. 
With more than 77 percent of the Notre Dame student body volunteering in 
resist drugs and appreciate the importance of self esteem, acad­emic achievement, and goal set­ting. 
Jim Sanson, a sophomore place-kicker and chairman of NDAAD, understands the need for such programs. 
"We talked about it last year and realized we never had any­one our age to talk to us about drugs when we were kids," Sanson said. "We thought that if 
we started 

some form or this organiza­another before tion and went
'MyBROTHER IS
they graduate, out to talk, it is not diffi­GROWING UP IN A these kids 
cult to under­would listen
SINGLE-PARENT HOME. WE 
stand why the to us and 
campus' stu-ARE IN THE POSITION ... TO maybe we 
dent-athletes BE GOOD MALE ROLE MOD­could make an impact on
choose to par-ELS FOR THESE KIDS. ' 
ticipate in ser-them." vice work. MALCOLM ]Ol!NSON Regarding 
"The athletes come in with the desire to serve and are surrounded by that culture here also," said Frances Shavers, coordinator of Life Skills. "They have high expectations of themselves and personal responsibilities, so they want to volunteer." 
To better understand the source of these athletes' dual commitment to service and community, one need only look to the holistic approach of Shavers and the Life Skills pro­gram. 
"We believe that community service is certainly one of the most critical aspects in this approach," Shavers said. "Our goal is to help them develop success as athletes, students, and members of the communi­ty." 
Life Skills sets up programs, workshops, and various events to help the athletes achieve this well-rounded persona. One of the programs sponsored by the office, Student-Athletes Read for Success (STARS), allows stu­dent-athletes to go to local ele­mentary or middle schools, pediatric units at local hospitals, or local libraries to read to chil­dren. 
Another program, Notre Dame Athletes Against Drugs (NDAAD), has also gained sup­port from the student-athletes. Football player Scott Palumbo 
ND '98 the NDAAD 
program, 
Shavers added that the athletes who speak at the schools try to encourage a wide variety of questions. 
"We try to stress the impor­tance of not just asking ques­tions about football, but also about anything from peer pres­sure to study habits," she stat­ed. 

This year, athletes can find more service opportunities with the new IRISH Speakers Bureau. The Bureau encourages student-athletes to speak to schools, community organiza­tions, or alumni groups. Through participation in this program, the athletes are able · to hone their communication skills. 
Shavers emphasized the importance of getting student­athletes involved in community service work. 
"It's important to put them in the position not just where they are known, but also to be posi­tive role models," she said. 
Johnson said he recognizes the responsibility that comes with being a Notre Dame foot­ball player. 
"Notre Dame is a high profile school, and we as football play­ers have a responsibility not only to the kids in South Bend, but kids nationwide," he said. 
Johnson also noted the signifi­


cance of kids growing up in sin­gle-parent homes without posi­Artistic admiration tive male role models. 
"My brother is growing up in a single-parent homo. We are in the position as football players to be good male role models for these kids," Johnson added. 
For another football player, junior Mike Rosenthal, the desire to volunteer came from his family. Even before coming to Notre Dame, Rosenthal says he was committed to service work. 
"My parents instilled it in me to help people," the offensive lineman said. "My mom is a school teacher so I used to go in and talk to her students about drugs and alcohol when I was in high school." 
Requests for the athletes to speak in their hometowns are not unusual, and many feel this is a natural continuation of their service work. 
"1 feel it is an obligation to give back to the -'people who have helped you to get this far," Sanson confirmed. 
Many football players' com­mitments to community service 
teers at the Boys and Girls Clubs The Chris Zorich Foundation, continue after they leave Notre 
as well as to the Children's created in memory of his moth­Dame. Hospital of Wisconsin. er who passed away unexpect­"It's almost selfish why I do Hentrich also expressed the edly during his senior year at it," said Aaron Taylor, a 1994 feeling of being indebted to the Notre Dame, aims to perpetuate
graduate and current defensive 
community. Zorich's mother's advice. lineman for the Green Bay "I want to do anything I can to Besides providing football Packers. "It makes me feel 
help this community out. tickets for young residents in 
good, and I help other people in They've given homes and the process." a lot to me, orphanages,Taylor has continued his vol­
and it's time the Zorich unteer efforts in the NFL as a for me to give 'IFEEL IT IS AN OBLIGA­Foundation local spokesman for the AIDS back," he said. also sponsors
TION TO GIVE BACK TO
Walk and for the Cerebral Palsy While many programsCenter of Green Bay. m 0 n 0 g r a m THE PEOPLE WHO HAVE such as "Love In addition, Taylor organized 
winners share HELPED YOU TO GET THIS Grows Here," 
a 1995 team-wide sponsorship similar altruis-a Mother's of 45 needy families in Green tic sentiments, FAR.' Day programBay and furnished hats and mit­Chris Zorich, a JIM SANSON that provides tens through player contribu­
1991 graduate ND '00 fresh flowers 
tions to over 1,100 children. 

and current to abused "There was a time when my 
Washington women in family was not the most blessed, 
Redskins defensive tackle, is shelters and distributes turkeysand I'm in a very fortunate posi­
one of the most recognizable to disadvantages families on_ tion now," Taylor stated. charitable Not~:e Dame alumni. Thanksgiving.
"I think it's important for kids "My inom always told me, On Nov. 18, over 400 founda­to have a good role model," 'Treat the world as you would tion volunteers delivered Green Bay Packer punter and your family, and you'll be Thanksgiving groceries to the former Notre Dame player Craig rewarded with loyalty and kind­homes of 497 needy Chicago
Hentrich said. Hentrich volun­ness,"' Zorich said. families. 

FORD MOTOR COMPANY 

Announces 

"FORD DAY" 
at the University of Notre Dame 
TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 25, 1997 
Featuring Keynote Speaker 
JOHN KAPLAN 

Controller, Manufacturing, Ford Automotive Operations 
JORDAN AUDITORIUM 
College Of Business Administration 
1:15-1 :45pm  Ford Overview by John Kaplan  
1:45-2: 15pm  Questions & Answers  
2:30-3:30pm  Functional Area Presentations  

Interested in a Career with Ford? 
Stop by and meet some of the people of Ford! 
Ford and Lincoln-Mercury Products will be on display in the COBA Courtyard! 


Think'ofus 
as your scliooJ bus. 

semester breaks or heading home for your sister's wedding, if going home means catching a plane at Mtaway or O'Hare, the best way to the airport is United Limo. 
Frequent seiVice, all day from campus gets you there on schedule. And when it's time to hit the books again, we'll pick you up at the airport and bring you back to school, No hassles, no problems. 
For information and schedule consult your travel agent or call 
800-833-5555 
www.busvllle.t'om 
I I~ITI=n II~Al1
Vi ~i i i.L.V ;.;: i iV' 
Your Airport Connection, O'Hare & Midway, All Day••• Every Day 
United Limo to the Chicago Airports 
Leave Notre Dame  Arrive Midway  Arrive O'Hare  
Main Gate  (via Tri State Coach~  Terminals 1, 2, & 3  
transfer in Portage)  (International terminal  
15 minutes later)  
4:00a.m.  6:10a.m.  5:55a.m.  
6:00a.m.  8:10a.m.  8:20a.m.  
8:00a.m.  10:10 a.m.  9:55a.m.  
9:00a.m.  11:10 a.m.  10:55 a.m.  
10:00 a.m.  12:10 p.m.  11:55 a.m.  
12:00 p.m.  2:10p.m.  1:55 p.m. 
1:00 p.m.  3:10p.m.  2:55p.m. 
2:00p.m.  4:10p.m.  3:55p.m. 
4:00p.m.  6:10p.m.  5:55p.m.  
6:00p.m.  8:10p.m.  7:55p.m.  

Friday, November 21, 1997 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
• WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
Rebels kill 300 in prison fire 
KIGALI. Rwanda 
Hutu rebels trying to free their comrades attacked a prison in northwestern Rwanda and burned down a courtroom, killing nearly 300 people. a military spokesman said Thursday. At least 200 rebels. 88 prisoners and two soldiers died in Monday's clash at Gieiye, about 40 miles northwest of Kigali. army spokesman Richard Sizibera said. The army was pursuing 93 prisoners who escaped and any survivors of the rebel force, estimated at 1.500 men, he said. The rebels -armed with automatic rifles, machetes and spears -attacked the prison under cover of darkness, Sizibera said. "They had two motives: freeing their comrades and burning down the court." In a separate inci­dent. at least 27 civilians were killed Monday by suspected rebels in the nearby village of Mukamara. Sizibera said. 
Bike collision results in death 
NEW YORK 
A bicycle courier struck and killed a man on a Manhattan sidewalk. an accident that has leaders calling for stricter laws on the delivery business. Arthur Kaye. 68. of Fort Lee. N.J.. was leaving a restaurant on the Upper West Side when he was knocked off his feet Tuesday night by a bicycle delivery­man for a chicken restaurant, said Det. Robert Samuel. Kaye's head struck the side­walk. and he died an hour later at St. Luke's Hospital. Courier Eduardo Delossantos, 24. 
was given a summons for not having identifi­I raqis burn an American flag during an anti-U.S.. r~lly N~w. 20 in Bagh?~d. Iraq announc~d it wo_uld accept the immedi~te reru_rn of all U.N.cation. which carries a line but no jail time. weapons inspectors under a deal brokered by Russta m a btd to end the cns1s sparked by Iraq s expulswn of U.S. members of mspectton teams. 
Mayor Rudolph Giuliani on Wednesday ordered police to step up enforcement of traffic rules for bicyclists. Councilman Andrew Eristoff said businesses should be hr.ld liable for their workers. 
French police catch suspect 
NANCY. France 
Police arrested a California psychologist accused of murdering his girlfriend before abandoning their 18-month-old son on a side­walk. French authorities said Thursday. James DeWayne Nivette was taken into cus­tody as he entnred his apartment building in MunstPr. near the German border. "He had no time to move." said Lt. Col. J~an-Jacques Rousseau. a military policeman in nearby Colmar. Nivette was not questioned. -French authorities receivPd an international arrest warrant for Nivette through Interpol on Wednesday. Police easily found him in Munster. where he spends several days a month. Rousseau said. Rousseau said Nivette could face extradition to California within weeks. but it was not clear if France would transfer him to the United States for prosecu­tion. France does not have capital punish­ment. and normally does not extradite crimi­nal suspects to states or countries that do. 
Dow 
]ONES 
Nasdaq: !626.56 +25.34



7ft61 
NYSE: 
500.54 
+6.64 
S&P 500: 

Composite
958.98 Volume:

+101.87 +14.39 721,214,350 
BIGGEST PERCENTAGE GAINERS 

rur.:n~&~l:· Ilf!S~H "11~ IH:Sid J !J:~Iti I!BICE 
·\RI :-.;l'twork Svc~. ,\EISD .mo.oo +2.00 3.00 ,\,r~trorn Brmcrl'n AST~1 63.16 +.too 7.75 llniruval·ll'Ch·WT · UTCI\V SS.56 +1.25 3.50 lillma'n k UtlC-WT tiTAXW 55.00 +0.69 1.94 R,unbll\ ln1... RMBS -t.l-.72 -1-17. 11-t. 60.94 
BIGGEST PERCENTAGE LOSERS  
{·,mllhc-anl'•v.ar  ll:ltiR  -t.2.Bb  -l.IJ  1.50  
Wl'l (irnup Inc C\·clopss Corp. M'S flu/din~-.-\ C.unzo Oil N tia.,  WPIC OZON .\PSI CRZO  .\8.02 2.4.00 22..50 21.47  ·4.56 -0.75 -1.13 ·2.19  7.H 2.38 3.88 8.00  

What's more, the number of such Russian Ambassador Sergey Lavrov 
AsSOCIATED PRESS sites keeps increasing the closer said Thursday those efforts will focus 
inspectors get to tracking down Iraq's on persuading the council to certify 
UNITED NATIONS stocks of chemical and biological that Iraq has dismantled its nuclear 
The Russian-brokered agreement to weapons, such as the nerve agent VX. weapons research program and get American and other U.N. arms Deputy chief inspector Charles destroyed its long-range missiles. inspectors back into Iraq may have Duelfer said Wednesday that since Russian and French diplomats have defused the latest crisis with Saddam March 1996, U.N. inspectors had visit­suggested that the council should con­Hussein-but it has not removed the ed 63 "sensitive"· sites. They have sider a gradual easing of sanctigns as differences that produced the show­been delayed at 38 of them and the inspectors "close the book" on down. denied access to 14 more. selected weapons programs. 
Under the agreement. Saddam has In some cases, U.N. inspectors But U.S. Ambassador Bill promised that all members of the U.N. learned from U-2 flights that the Richardson said the United States Special Commission, which performs Iraqis used the delays to move out would veto if necessary any move to the inspections, can return to work as barred materials, Duelfer said. ease sanctions against Iraq unless it soon as possible. U.N. officials say there are no guar­complies fully with U.N. resolutions. 
The commission chairman, Richard antees that they will not face similar "It is our view ... that the missile Butler. plans to send the inspectors delays when they return to Iraq. But files should not be closed," Richardson back into Iraq on Friday. they do have leverage. said. "There is still significant work 
But American and U.N. officials Without gaining access, the inspec­and oversight that has to happen in remain cautious about predicting tors refuse to certify Iraqi claims that those areas." Furthermore, there are whether this latest promise of full they have destroyed prohibited subtle but significant differences with­cooperation will produce what they weapons and materials. in the 15-member Security Council on want: free and unconditional access to Iraq needs the certification because precisely what actions Iraq must take all sites where Iraq is believed to be it is the condition for lifting the eco­before sanctions are removed. hiding weapons of mass destruction. nomic sanctions imposed in 1990 Iraqi officials repeatedly cite the 
The problem is Iraq has declared when Saddam invaded Kuwait. 1991 U.N. resolution that mandates 
dozens of sites as sensitive to national As part of the deal. Russia agreed to inspections and orders destruction of security. including presidential "actively participate in the speedy lift­long-range missiles and chemical. bio­palaces and other facilities. ing of the sanctions." logical and nuclear weapons. 
Egypt tightens~"'~cutity'Hafter massacre 
AsSOCIATED PRESS a security committee to forces, including the demands, none of which 
oversee sit()S ~'qch as removal • of .. Interior Mubarak is likely to accept:
CAIRO, Egypt Luxor's Temple of Minister Hassan el-Alfy, end a government crack­
President Hosni Mubarak Hatshepsut. Six Islamic who . supervis.ed the down on militants; end moved to tighten security militants stormed the tern-nation's police; as well relations with Israel; and at Egypt's tourist sites plf:J Monday, cornering and Luxor~s police chief and install strict Islamic law. today. guarding against killing tourists from Europe several lower-level offi-For the past several m o r e and Asia. cials. months. group members on attacks Mubarak <prdered t~e The outlawed al~Gamaa trial for assassination after gun­new committee to conduct aJ-Islamiya, or Islamic attempts and other men mas­an immediate inspection of Group, which claimed charges, including alleged­sacred 58 security at tourist attrac-responsibility for the ly trying to overthrow the foreigners tions. The panel was attack; derided the govern-government. have made at a Pha· expected to report ba.ck mentin a statement faxed similar truce offers. The raonic within days, Information today to a Western new government, however, has temple. Minister Safwat el-Sherif agency, saying "the firing consistently refused to con­
M u told Egypt's Middle East of cl·Alfy ishot enough." sider such an agreement,barak and News Agency. It offered to declare a expressing confidence it his Cabinet, meeting in Today's moves followed a cease~flre if the govern-can stamp out the Islamic emergency sossion, created shakeup of Egypt's security ment meets a string of uprising. 


-----------------------~­page 6 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS Friday, November 21, 1997 
Vigil 
continued from page 1 
convinced that capital punish­ment is good for any reason, moral or economic. For me, there's no consistency in its usage." 
Said Lyons Hall rector Sister Kathleen Beatty, "I think it had a real impact on them to be that close to the site of an execution, to be in vigil on the actual property." 
The group prayed, read from the Bible, and sang hymns in the hours leading up to 12:01 a.m. CST, Burris's scheduled time of death. 
"When we arrived, a small group had lit candles in front of the prison and were chant­ing," said Beatty. "Many came around our group and joined in; at one point, I joined our [stood vigil at] an execution." Ind., led us in some of the students in a rosary." She and Rosenkoetter standard chants," Beatty said. 

One of the most moving recalled that even the freezing "One of them was 'A state moments for her came just temperature did not deter murder is still a murder."' after midnight: As the group participants from constant The late news of the delayed sang the hymn "You are praying and chanting in sup-administration of the lethal Near," Burris' fel-injection added to low · inmates the poignancy of raised their voices 
the vigil, 
in protest. 'ITHINK THE NOISE FROM THE Rosenkoetter said. "When the [exe-INMATES SENT SHOCK WAVES Officials appar­cution] time came, ently strapped 
we heard the pris-THROUGH OUR PARTICIPANTS, 
Burris to the appa­oners in the peni-BECAUSE THIS WAS THE FIRST ratus, then stalled because medical
tentiary wailing TIME MANY OF THEM HAD and banging on attendants could the cell bars," she [STOOD VIGIL AT] AN EXECU-not locate a vein. said. "It was defi-TION.' SISTER Burris died just nitely moving -KATHLEEN BEAITY before 1 a.m. CST, we could hear all almost an hour their screams." after the scheduled 
Said Beatty. "I think the port of Chambers, Burris, and time. noise from the inmates sent their respective families. "That must have made it shock waves through our par­"At one point, we walked in agonizing," Rosenkoetter said. ticipants, because this was the a big circle to keep warm "He just had to lie there and first time many of them had while a woman from Gary. wait." 
For her, only one thing tainted the experience of trav­eling to Michigan City to keep vigil. Rosenkoetter said that the media's presence intruded on the atmosphere partici­pants tried to create. 
"A friend of mine noted, 'The vulture press was depressing,"' she said. "A bunch of people from the South Bend media got in peo­ple's faces while they prayed. It took away from the solem­nity of the moment." 
Senior Katie Donnelly still felt moved by the night's events, admitting her surprise at how emotional, yet stirring the vigil was. 
"It was a powerful experi­ence; in fact I'm still trying to deal with it," she said. "Everyone there was joined by prayer ... it was really very touching." 


Friday, November 21, 1997 The Observer· MULTICULTURAL NEWS page 7 
• COAliTION COUNCIL 
Outlaw: All students can
Huie reviews session results 
help ease racial tensions 
OMSA informs members about upcoming events 
By CHRISTOPHER SHIPLEY News Writer 
Leaders from the multicultur­al organizations on campus gathered last night with mem­bers of the Office of Multicultural Student Affairs to announce upcoming activities and go over the results of a lis­
tening  session  with  the  
University  Committee  on  
Cultural Diversity.  

Kevin Huie, the assistant director of OMSA, took the opportunity to speak to the council members about the ses­sion held on Wednesday night with the University committee, which includes members of the faculty, staff and administration. 
lluie reiterated some of the major points from the listening session, including the comments about the "Men About Campus" comic strip which ran in The Observer on Oct. 31. 
"The committee agreed that this was just a flashpoint that showed that there are negative race relations on campus," Huie told the council members. 
lie also said that neither of 
BUY DIAMONDS .~. . BELOW WHOLESALE! . 9!J!!l. YJecli/ gcrl£Y-
Since 1921 

CHICAGO • NEW YORK • ANTWERP •ISRAEL 
Direct Diamond lmp2rters 
1-800-922-0090 
or visit our website at 
sapeck.com 

Winner of The Reader's Digest LookSmort Editor's Choice Award 
UTILE MERMAID (G) DTS 12:00 2:15 4:30 6:40 8:45 ANASTASIA (G) DTS 12:15 2:30 4:45 6:50 9:00 RAINMAKER (PG-13} 1 :00 4:00 7:00 9:50 JACKAL (R) 1:15 4:10 7:10 9:45 
MAN WHO KNEW TOO (PG) 12:30 2:45 5:00 7:30 9:40 STARSHIP TROOPERS (R) 1 :30 4:20 7:20 10:00 
Sat/Sun Mat. in [brakets] GATIICA (PG-13) [2:00] 4:30 7:00 9:30 EVE'S BAYOU (R) [2:30] 5:00 7:30 10:00 WINGS OF THE DOVE (R) [2:15] 4:45 7:15 9:45 

the subcommittees on which he serves, Campus Climate and Recruitment and Retention, have met outside of a CCC dis­cussion to reorganize the Bookstore Basketball tourna­ment in the spring. 
OMSA staff took the opportu­nity of the coalition meeting to praise the PEACE organization for its efforts in attempting to 
'THE COMMIITEE 
AGREED THAT IT [THE MEN ABOUT CAMPUS CAR­
TOON] WAS JUST A FLASH~ 
POINT THAT SHOWED THERE 
ARE NEGATIVE RACE RELA­
TIONS ON CAMPUS.' 
KEVIN HUIE 

bring education to the campus about the comic strip. 
"I encourage everyone to let them know that we are· proud of them," Huie said. 
Iris Outlaw, the director of OMSA, encouraged members to view the notes that she and Huie made of the topics and issues discussed. 
Outlaw also briefed the stu­dents on OMSA's search for a second assistant director, whose responsibilities would be to aid Huie in acting as a liaison between the office and the dif­ferent organizations on campus. The office has been advertising the position in Hispanic Outlook for two weeks and plans on interviewing candidates in the near future. 
Coalition members then received an updated Jist of offi­cers for the multicultural orga­nizations on campus. 
The council's five-point mis­sion statement was also formal­ly presented to members for dis­cussion after a recommendation made by Steven Gomez, the chairman of tht Student Union's Diversity Council, at that group's Oct. 30 gathering. 
The council discussed several upcoming activities, including study-day breaks sponsored by La Alianza and the Filipino• American Student Association on Dec. 11, and the NAACP on Dec. 17. 
Also, Pachanga, a Chicano student forum, will be held at Princeton University over the Thanksgiving holiday, and the Filipino celebration Fiestang will take place Feb. 28. 
A full list of multicultural activities can be found in Out of the Shadows, the official newsletter of OMSA. 
The next Coalition Council meeting will be Jan. 22 at 5 
p.m. in the Notre Dame Room, located on the second floor of LaFortune Student Center. 
By MATTHEW LOUGHRAN 
Associate News Editor 
Students of color at Notre Dame may have a problem con­vincing themselves that younger siblings and members of their 
community should attend the University, according to Iris Outlaw, director of the Office of Multicultural 


S t u d e n t Outlaw Affairs. 
"[Racial tensions] influence recruiting directly because, for the students that are here, there has been a racial incident every year that they have been here," she said in a presentation in Alumni Hall Tuesday night. "A lot of these students feel as though they are not part of the community. They cannot get on the phone and tell their younger brothers and sisters that Notre Dame is a good, diverse place to 
come. 
"As a matter of fact, many of them are steering their siblings away from the University," she added. 
In her presentation, Outlaw focused on the racial tensions existing on campus and how all students can ameliorate them. 
"For a lot of students, this is the most diverse environment that they have ever encoun­tered," she said. "But for many of the students of color, this is a very homogenous environment." 
She spoke about the creation of ethnic-study programs at the University as a step in the right direction. But she also said that the affirmation of students of color must start at an early age. 
"The students that are coming up through the education system now are not seeing their ethnici­ty affirmed in their studies," Outlaw said. "We need to see more Asian, Latino and African­American students on posters and classroom materials. These materials are out there for the more open-minded teachers." 
Outlaw shared stories about her own children and their experiences in local schools as examples of how the children should be affirmed in school. She then described how students who do tutoring projects in pre­dominately minority schools should bring that experience back with them. 
"The fact that students can interact with people of color on that level, but cannot interact with their section-mates, is wrong," she said. "If you see 11 table of people that is all one ethnicity, go sit there. 
"You may be ignored at first, but if you are being sincere and continue to sit there, the stu­dents will talk to you," she added. 


This sculpture depicts the continuation of the greatest tradition in college football with The Four Hor~emen set in bas..relief against the new north tunnel stadium portico. 
Hand cast in durable beta gypsum, this work of art by noted sculptor Bill Burford is a prized addition to any den or office and will be treasured for years to come. 
The inscription at the base reads from the famous Grantland Rice Report; Outlined against a blue gray October sky The Four Horsemen rode again in dramatic lore they are known as famine, pestilence, destruction and death. These were only aliases 
The Four Horsemen of Notre Dame This fine work of art is available only through the University of Notre Dame campus bookstore for $140.00. To order call (219) 631..6316. A product of N.D. Collectibles Inc. 

..-s. #6 ~eLraska 
Sunday ft]ov. 23rd 1pm Alumni Jield 
..------------~--~~---------­
Friday, November 21, 1997

page 8 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT 

ALOHA 
s·WEEPST~KES 
Win an all expense paid trip to the NO vs. Hawaii game in Hawaii. Includes airfare, hotel accommodations, tickets to the game and Champion prize packs. 


Please stop by the Hammes Bookstore or Varsity Shop for program details. 
"On the Campus" Phone: 631-6316 

4@4 ... :W<WIII4

---..--------I!IM!IUP"'"'"W!I!---••--.....,.._w_.~..._-----~----·~~ ----~.......-....--~-~--------.. ..,'-"''r 
.. • 

, ··~ • J 1 r ....... ,..... ....... ..... .. ~, /i ' · . , 
Friday, November 21, 1997 The Observer· CAMPUS NEWS page 9 
• NEWS ANALYSIS 
Prof: Judges have unlimited power to overturn verdicts 
By SEAN VINCK 
News Writer 
Shock waves have resonated throughout the United States in the past several weeks in response to the conviction of English au pair Louise 
Woodward. 
Though many felt the initial reac­tion to her conviction evolved into a media cir­cus. the 


reduction of Blakey the second degree murder conviction to involuntary manslaughter by Judge Hiller Zoebel of the Massachusetts Superior Court provoked even greater furor. 
The original verdict of second degree murder and its subse­quent reversal have put the functions of both judge and jury into focus. 
"The jury's job involves find­ing fact; the judge makes sure that the law is applied," said Deborah Cerullo, an associate professional specialist at the Notre Dame Law School. 
G. Robert Blakey, a Notre Dame Law School professor, said, "We have a system of trial by judge and jury; the jury only gets the first crack at the facts. Essentially, the role of the jury is to make a determination of guilt, and the judge serves to ensure that justice is done." 
In Massachusetts, reductions in convictions, as in the Woodward trial, are r.ommon, Blakey said, adding that "there is potential for such set-asides in every criminal case." Though the set-aside in the Woodward case has been discussed a great deal in the media, in reality such action does not transcend the power of a judge. 
"There is hardly any limit to the judge's power [in reducing a defendant's conviction]," Blakey said. 
Surrounding the media frenzy at the Woodward trial, specula­tion has emerged about the mechanics behind both the con­viction itself and Zoebel's rul­ing, including rumors that Zoebel may have been coerced into his decision. Because Zoebel was appointed to a life term by the governor of Massachusetts, he is neither accountable to the voters, as in other states, nor to a higher executive authority. 
"You can't touch him [Zoebel]" says Blakey. 
It has also been speculated that the jury's conviction may have been the result of an adverse reaction to defense attorney Barry Sheck, of O.J. Simpson notoriety. The rumors state that the perceived injus­tice of the Simpson verdict may have offended jurors, and that they would manifest their anger by finding Sheck's client guilty. Cerullo said such a response by the jury would be "shocking." 
Since the action of reducing convictions is common in Massachusetts, there may not be a great effect on other crimi­nal trials throughout the coun­try. 
"Anytime he [Zoebel] takes action, he helps like-minded judges elsewhere in accordance with the law, but all judges want to see justice done and to see their role in it," Cerullo said. 
A great deal of the discussion of the Woodward trial has cen­tered upon Sheck's perceived "gamble." Sheck did not allow the jurors to consider involun­tary manslaughter as a possible verdict in their deliberations, thus limiting them to choosing either first or second degree murder and "forcing" the jury to consider acquitting Woodward. 
The only other option would have been to convict her of murder, something Sheck must have viewed as a harsh judg­ment both in light of Woodward's youth and the con­tradictory medical evidence in the trial. 
When the jury convicted Woodward of murder, the so­called gamble failed. 
"It was a no-loss situation, because even if the jury convict­ed, Sheck knew he would have a shot to appeal to Judge Zoebel," Blakey said. 
Cerullo concurred, saying, "He [Sheck] had a fall-back plan." 
Both Cerullo and Blakey believe that Sheck knew he would be able to argue his case before Zoebel again even if 
Two O'NeilIs 
Two 
New 
CD's 
Now available in the Country Harvester (basement of LaFortune) 
Join Tim and Ryan O'Neill in their solo piano 10 state 1997 Holiday Concert Tour. For more information on when they will be performing in your area call: 1-888-9-0'Neill (toll free) 
Woodward was convicted. 
To examine the legal prece­dence behind the judge's deci­sion, it is necessary to under­stand the relevant criminal statutes. In Massachusetts, the state in which Woodward was prosecuted, there are two courts: the District Court, which has jurisdiction over misde­meanors and certain felonies; and the Superior Court which deals with more serious felonies and capital crimes. Zoebel was appointed by the governor of Massachusetts to serve for a life term as a Superior Court judge. 
There are two types of mur­der convictions -first and sec­ond degree. First degree mur­der carries a life sentence with­out parole in Massachusetts; it is defined as a murder with aggravating circumstances and no mitigating factors. Second degree murder, of which Woodward was originally con­victed, is defined as a murder without malice and with certain mitigating circumstances; it carries a less harsh sentence and offers the possibility of parole. There is no capital pun­ishment in Massachusetts. 
Involuntary manslaughter, the crime to which Zoebel lowered the conviction, is less serious and carries a minimum penalty of 3-5 years in prison. 
The significance of the Woodward trial may lie in the fact that it wasn't particularly significant, except for the man­ner in which it was conducted, and in the way the media reported it. 
"I am outraged that the judge didn't permit the manslaughter option from going to the jury," said Blakey. "Zoebel handled the case poorly ... it was a media circus; he should have either given the option of manslaughter to the jurors, or when he changed the verdict, sentenced her at the manslaughter level instead of giving her time served. 
"Through his actions, he depreciated the life of the child, saying that she was indeed guilty of manslaughter, then not sentencing her as such," Blakey said. 
sav-,~ttts 
GRACE THE MANTEL THIS HOLIDAY SEASON Wlnt A TERRACOTTA NATIVITY FROM PERU 
II
TEN THOUSAND 
VILLAGES... Formerly Global Gifts 919 West McKinley Mishawaka (219) 255-3536 
Monday-Saturday: 10-6 Friday: 10-8 
FAIRLY TRADED HANDICRAFTS FROM AROUND THE WORLD 

w
~~----~-----------------------­
page 10 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT Friday, November 21, 1997 
Tf1E 

HAMMES 
NOT 
DAME 
BOOKS ORE 
ON THE
CAMPUS 

The "VICTORY" jacket by GEAR For Sports-® in adult, child, and infant sizes... 




classic, relaxed clothes done simply right 
. . . 
.~ AR
G ~?·rt 

T S ® 
page 11

Friday, November 21, 1997 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS 
SMC art students display work in Moreau Center 
By P. COLLEEN NUGENT ment, has been a member of A committee of seven faculty the faculty will be sending Associate Saint Mary's News Editor the Saint Mary's community members are responsible for students a letter within the for 20 years. According to next couple of weeks regard­Every semester, art students Rickard, the event allows stu­ing their artwork and whether at Saint Mary's College collab­dents from other majors to they met the necessary orate to display their diverse grasp a stronger feeling for 'PUTIING TOGETHER A requirements, or if further 
creations. what really goes on in the PORTFOLIO KNOWING improvement is needed. Whether these pieces of art College's art classes. She On Tuesday, the freshmen,
THAT IT IS GOING TO BE CRI­
are hung on the walls, laid on added that it is a positive way sophomores and juniors the floor, or left standing to show support for friends TIQUED GIVES ME A SENSE OF whose goal is to earn a bache­alone, Moreau Center con­who spend much time work­lor of arts were critiqued;
CONFIDENCE THAT I KNOW I
tains an ambiance for young ing on their projects. seniors and other students aspiring artists. "We are very plea·sed with WILL BENEFIT FROM IN THE earning their bachelor of fine 
Beginning this past Monday, the quality of work and the arts were critiqued on
FlJTURE.'
and continuing through this student participation," Wednesday. 
AMYFORS
afternoon. the Moreau art gal­Rickard stated. The professional art degree leries will be open for student All students who arc taking with a BFA honors degree observation between 10 a.m. an art course and attend Saint requires 78 credit hours, and 4 p.m. Mary's College must present judging students' artwork and while earning a BA requires 
Marica Rickard, the chair of their art in this portfolio portfolios. 42 credit hours upon gradua­the Saint Mary's art depart-review, according to Rickard. Junior Amy Fors stated that tion. 

AUTHOR SEAN MARTY MILES RICHARD 
J. SAVAGE LIVE SPENCER 
THURSDAY • NOVEMBER 20 FRIDAY • NOVEMBER 21 SUNDAY • NOVEMBER 23
7:00P.M•• 
8:00P.M. 

2:00P.M. 
What best defines a Democrat in Richard Spencer will lecture on his 
Join us in the Cafe Espresso for the the American political arena--ide­book Adantis Rising a story of
music of Marty Miles Eclectic alistic refonner of pragmatic po­humankind'snextevolution and the 
Acouatic Ensemble contempo­litical? Harry 'fruman adopted spirit of consciousness. His spirit 
rary folk, rock, blues, and country. ooth roles and in doing so defined name is Black Wolf. Join us for a the nature of his presidency. Mr. 
great discussion and oook signing. Savage gjve a talk and sign copies ofhis book 'fruman and the Demo­cratic Party. Now in paperback. 
MISHAWAKA: 4230 GRAPE RD ON THE NORTHEAST CORNER OF GRAPE AND DAY' RD 
(219)· 271-9930 
Senior art major Allison Holloway is participating in the art review for her seventh semester. Next semester, Holloway and the other senior art majors will not be partic­ipating in the review, she said, adding that their work load is not going to be less­ened because they must spend time on their senior compre­hensive studies. 
While earning her BFA in art, her main concentration is in photography, and she is minoring in women's studies. 
"I have always loved looking at pictures, because of the endless stories they have to tell." Holloway said. 
Upon graduation, she hopes to do a few years of service work before returning to her hometown of Indianapolis. 
This semester Fors took two art classes, completed her portfolio, and hung samples of her work in Madeleva. 
"This has been a great expe­rience for me, and putting together a portfolio knowing· that it is going to be critiqued gives me a sense of confidence that I know I will benefit from in the future," Fors stated. 
Although Saint Mary's College offers this critique­based portfolio section for the art majors each semester, many other schools do not provide the same offerings, according to junior Carolyn Lateulere. 
"This reviewing process is a 
really great thing that SMC 
has to offer, because not 
many other colleges offer this 
type of method to get proper 
feedback prior to graduation," 
Lateulere said. 
N~J? 
Share it. 1-5323 


CINEMA AT THE SNITE
~~J!'IDo~Jill ~ J]fuCQ CID(b~CQU\Y@[( 
Showing Friday and Saturday: 7:15 and 9:45pm 
Sponsored by Notre Dame Communication and Theatre 
J

~ -~ ... """ .... .. .... • ; .. --..... --' ~ .. ----... _._.._ -.......... -........ -.... ---.... -·--... ~ ---.. ~-~ ....... -...... ~· --~.... -... _. ...-..... --...... --... --·-~~ -7 
page 12 The Observer· CAMPUS NEWS Friday, November 21, 1997 
Mines 
continued from page 1 
of those, 53 are civilians and 13 are children. Despite the harm they cause to innocent victims, 5,500 new land mines are planted daily, the group's literature states, and the majority of injuries and deaths caused by mines occur after military conflict has ended. 
"The biggest problem is that land mines stay in the ground long after the war is over," Deemer said. 
Land mines also render land unusable for agriculture, prevent water sources from being utilized, and interfere with the delivery of relief shipments, according to the recent socio-economic study, "After the Guns Fall Silent." They also impede refugees from returning home, and cause farmers to resort to cultivating the same land repeatedly, leading to deserti­fication and deforestation. 
BACKGROUND 

The worldwide effort to ban land mines began in 1991, when the Vietnam Veterans of America Foundation hired Jody Williams to head an anti-mine coalition. 
The group, which began with just three members, became the U.S. Campaign to Ban Land Mine!;> and grew in size to include 250 organiza­tions. 
After going global in 1992 and forming the International Campaign to Ban Lanp Mines, which currently includes over 1,000 groups in more than 60 countries, the campaign began calling for a full review of the Land Mines Protocol of the 1980 Weapons Convention, whose attempts to regulate land-mine use had · been unsuccessful. 
The group is now advocat­ing a ban on the use, produc­tion, stockpiling, sale, trans­fer, and export of mines, as well as the creation of an international fund to be used for assistance programs for mine victims and worldwide education and clearance pro­grams. 
The international ban will be signed this winter in Ottawa. President Clinton has refused to approve the treaty because it does not include an exception for the U.S. use of land mines along the border of North and South Korea, or for the use of anti-personnel mines in combination with anti-tank mines. 
SIGNING UP 

Members of the Notre Dame campaign will be in the dining halls and in LaFortune today so that students may sign a petition for the U.S. to join the countries approving the ban, which will be sent to President Clinton. 
Approximately 300 signa­tures have already been col­lected, according to Anne Monaghan, a graduate Peace Studies student. 
Several of the students organizing the event attended a presentation by the International Bus to Ban Land Mines last week. 
They developed the current plan after Paul Piatti, western director of the Vietnam Veterans of America Foundation, encouraged them to take advantage of Notre Dame's national exposure to express their support for the land mine ban, according to Deemer. 
• SECURITY BEAT 
SATURDAY, NOV.15 
2:30 a.m. Security transported a Keough Hall resident to St. Joseph Medical Center for treatment of a laceration. 
1:30 p.m. A Knott Hall resident reported the theft of a golf cart. The cart was not locked at the time of theft. 
SUNDAY, NOV.16 
3:44 a.m. Security responded to a snowball fight outside of Zahm Hall. Zahm had numerous windows broken during the snqwball fight, andSecurity 
cited several students for their involvement inthe fight. 
Please Recycle The Observer 
Coming to the Chicago 
Area for the Holidays? 
Earn $ and gain exposure to the Corporate World. 
-Word Processing 
Operators -Receptionists -General Office Clerks 

Call City Staffing 2 N. LaSalle St. #630 (312) 346-3400 

The First Noel... 

Special to The Observer 
Peter Schifl'er, assistant professor of physics at the University of Notre Dame, has been named one of 60 1997 recipients of the Presidential Early Career Award for Scientists and Engineers. 
The award is the highest honor given by the U.S. government to outstanding scientists· and engi­neers early in their research careers. Schiffer and the other recipients each will receive up to $500,000 over five years to further their research. 
Schiffer joined the Notre Dame faculty in 1995, following a two-year post-doctoral fellowship at AT&T Bell Laboratories. He received his bache­lor's degree in physics from Yale University and earned his doctorate at Stanford University. 
Schiffer's research centers on novel magnetic materials and their properties at low temperatures near absolute zero. Schiffer also performs research on the properties of wet granular materi­als -such as sand -with his colleague, Albert­Laszlo Barabasi, assistant professor of physics. 
Separately, Oliver Collins, associate professor of electrical engineering at the University of Notre Dame, is the recipient of the 1998 Judith A. Hesnik Award presented by the Institute of Electrical and Electronic Engineers (IEEE). 
Collins's work was instrumental in allowing the" Galileo probe of Jupiter to transmit information without needed telecommunications upgrades, and his concepts helped NASA's Jet Propulsion Laboratory complete a decoding machine in 1990. 
A member of the Notre Dame faculty since 1995, Collins specializes in deep space communications, satellite communications and coding theory. 
Collins attended the California Institute of Technology, where he earned his bachelor's degree in engineering and applied science in 1986 and master's and doctoral degrees in electrical engineering in 1987 and 1989, respectively. 
The Judith A. Resnik Award was established by the IEEE Board of Directors in 1986 in honor of the late Challenger astronaut. 
It is presented to an individual for outstanding contributions to space engineering within the dis­ciplines of IEEE. 




FEATURING 


NDAY 
THE CRYPT 7P~ 
BROUGHT TO YOU BY THE ClASS OF '98 
VIEWPOINT 
Friday, November 21, 1997 

THE OBSERVER 
NOTRE DAME OfFICE: P.O. Box Q. Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY'S OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1997-98 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Brad Prendergast Managing Editor Business Manager Jamie Heisler Tom Roland Assistant Managing Editor 
Dan Cichalski Sports Ediror. . ............... Mike Day Advertising Manager............................. Jed Pewrs News Editor... . ............. HearhcrCocks Ad Design Manager... ...Jennifer Breslow Viewpoint Editor ...................... Kelly Brooks Production Manager......................... !vlark DeBoy Accent Editor... .. ......... Joey Crawford Systems Manager ...................... Michael Brouillet Saint Mary's Editor, ...................... Lori Allen Controller........ .. .................. Kyle Carlin Photo Editor ........................... K:uic Kroener 
The Observer i~ the independent newspaper published by rhe students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Sainr Mary's College. Ir does ~or necessarily reflect the policies of the adminbtration ofeither institution. The new~ is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent rhe opinion of rhe majoriry of rhe Ediror~in~Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editor, Ne~s Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Sports Edimr, Accem Editor, Saine f\lf.ary's Editor, Photo Ediror, and AssoCiate News Editor. Commentaries. leners and Inside Columns present the views of the authors, and nor neces­\arily those of The Ob~crver. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Norn~ Dame/Saint Mary's communi()' and to all readers. The free expre!<>.~ion of varying opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 

Editor-in-Chief  63I-4542  Business Ottlce  631-5313  
M.1naging Editor  6.li-454I  Advertising  63I-6900/8840  
News/Photo  63I-)32.)  Svsrems  63I-8839  
Sports  63I-4543  Office Manager  631-747I  
Acccnr/Sainr Mary's  63I-4 540  Fax  631-6927  
Day Ediror/Viewpoinr  63I-5303  Viewpoint E-Mail  Viewpoint.I@nd.edu  
(;enerallntOrmarion  63I-747I  Ad E-Mail  observer@darwin.cc.nd.edu  


• EDITORIAL 
Students have right idea in urging U.S. to ban mines 
Anyone who saw the photos of land-mine victims that were on display 
in the Hesburgh Center for International Studies last "(Mk knows the 
horrific damage that land mines can do to the most innocent person. 
It's a tragic sight. 
But just as tragic is the United States' unwillingness to join the rest of 
the world in supporting a treaty that would ban the use of the war 
devices. When diplomats from about 110 countries gather in Ottawa, 
Canada, on Dec. 3-4 to sign a treaty banning anti-personnel land mines, 
the American presence will be noticeably lacking. The United States will 
be in the same group as Iraq, China, and North Korea. 
Tlw problem with land mines is their perpetual indiscrimination. 
Regardless of who steps on a mine -soldier or civilian, adult or child ­
the weapons at worst kill and at best cause the loss of a limb. Moreover, 
land mines remain active well after their intended purpose has become 
obsolete. Earlier this year, for example, a girl in Egypt was killed by a 
mine apparently buried in the desert by Rommel's Afrika Korps in 19~2. 
The statistics are just as sobering. Each year, 26,000 people are k1Ued 
or maimed by land mines, an average of70 per day. Ofthe 70, 53 ar~ 
civilians and 13 are children. In Cambodia, there is one. land mine plant,. 
ed for every person in the country, and some Cambodi;:tn stores sell only 
one shoe because so many people are crippled by land mine(). >. 
The American military has argued that it would sign the ban treaty only 
if granted two exemptions. The United States wants to be able to continue 
u.sing 1 million land min~s to protect South Korea from ayossib~~ ·invac. 
swn by North Korea, and 1t w;:tnts to exempt so-called n~~. ~m;:trt .• 
that are designed to destroy tanks and to s~lf~destruct a!t~r a given .•.. 
period, thus preventing them from causing harm to innocent civili 
years later. 
The United States maintains a military presence h:f South Korea 
because of a United Nations mandate and America's desire to be at the 
forefront of policing the world's conflicts. Bttt; as m~~y ~!lalysts 
said, such a role can be accmhplished without the use of}and min .. 
fact, the United States itself bas noted the problems hiherent in 1~ 
mines. and passed legislation prohibiting the exportationof land mines 
by American manufacturers five years ago. And "smart" mines have their 
problems, too: The anti-tank mines must be accompanied ~y anti-person~ 
nel devices so that opposing troops are not able to ren:wye th(;l!ll il.Q~ . 
allow the tanks to move on. · .·· · · 
The campaign to ban land mines has come even closer to homeJn 
recent days. A group of Notre Dame students spent the week collectitlg. 
signatures on petitions urging the United .$tates to sign the ban trea 
The group members' efforts. ~Hi culmi.q~te. this wee · as the 
students to raise a single sboe~du.ring thei ngoft ?ttal 
at Saturday's football game. > · . •..·· ·...•·.·••••··•···•··••·· .• • These students deserve credit for tacklilig.·an issue that can be boile.d down to one simple truth:'If the United States considers itself a wosl~ leader, it ought to take the lead and throw its support · ld the trea;ty to ban land mines. 
• DOONESBURY GARRY TRUDEAU 
• LETIER TO THE EDITOR 
One Shoe in the Air, One Hand Over the Heart 
Land mines strike 26,000 people per year, most of whom are non-combatants. What can you do about it? Lift one shoe into the air and put one hand over your heart during the Star Spangled Banner at Saturday's game. 
Why the shoe? In some places, a pair of shoes is one shoe too many. In countries like Bosnia, Cambodia, Angola and Afghanistan, stores sell only one shoe because so many people are crippled by land mine injuries. The fact is, land mines remain in the ground long after the fight­ing has stopped. There they wait for a vic­tim to walk along. Never do they miss! Unfortunately, there are 110 million land mines waiting to be stepped on; and 110 million single shoes wait to be sold. When you lift your shoe on Saturday, it will be in remembrance of the hundreds of thou­sands of men, women, and children who have been crippled or killed by land mines. Lifting your shoe will also be a statement to President Clinton that the American people will not support such devices of ter­ror. 
Why during the Star Spangled Banner? This is a time to reflect upon our national ideals and all that we have done in pursuit of these ideals. We cannot stop pursuing these ideals now! Raising your shoe will crank the gears of democracy and make your voice heard, and raising your shoe will be silent affirmation of your belief in these ideals. As we all, with unified pur­pose, raise our shoes into the air, we place our hands over our hearts to honor those American soldiers who have died for the cause of freedom -especially those who were killed by land mines, more than 30 percent of the casualties in both Vietnam and the Gulf War. 
Why Notre Dame? For one, we are a Christian institution, dedicated to the teachings of the Bible. As members of a Christian community we believe that all life is sacred, and we are called to stand up for that belief. As many of us are Catholics, the pronouncement by Pope 
OFFSIDES: 
Nearly 120 counlnes 
are on the side of a global ban on land mines. 
The US isn't one of them 

John Paul XXIll that land mines must be banned also has some resonance. The truth is, land mines cause senseless death and suffering. We, as Christians, must pre­vent or remedy this to the best of our abili­ty. Furthermore, because of our faith and religion, Notre Dame has become an established beacon of ethics and moral reasoning. With this honor comes the responsibility to act upon our beliefs. In making a unified statement against land mines, we show that Notre Dame is a leader both on and off the field. 
So now the challenge has been brought to you. This is your chance as an individ­ual and as a member of the Notre Dame community to show your compassion for humanity as well as your pride in the ideals of the United States of America. 
The Notre Dame Campaign to Ban Land Mines November 19, 1997 
• QuoTE OF THE DAY 
'' I have fought a good
fight, I have finished my course, I have kept the faith." 
-The Second Epistle of Paul the Apostle to Timothy 1:7 

VIEWPOINT 
Friday, November 21, 1997
page 14 

• COLUMN OF REASON • RIGHT OR WRONG? 
Consult Faculty on Construction Decisions 
This essay neither critiques a build-community for years, several for nearly ing, nor offers an aesthetic commen-20 years. tary; but rather questions the manner The second point of contention is the in which decisions regarding such composition of the student "vision 
issues are made. 

================ groups" created by
Our university's the office of extensive building Student Affairs. campaign has While these 
Marybeth
become more and groups are vital in more apparent with discovering the each new mound of main issues at
Fai11 a churned up earth. hand, they fall As you observe the short of their full ongoing construe-potential. The tion around you, group of 16 people have you ever wondered who only has three students, two of determines the fate of our cam-which are members of a student pus? Or, have you ever thought organization, or student govern-that all this work must be a great ment. The other 12 are mainly learning experience for the faculty, staff and food service architecture department. Well, if representatives, none of whom you have not, the students and are from the architecture or sod-faculty who reside in Bond Hall ology departments. I am sure have. However, the administra-that these discussions are help­tion's attitude regarding the ful, but would it not be construe-involvement of the School of tive to introduce members of the Architecture has dashed our faculty and student body with hopes for any sort of participa-this particular expertise? I would tion in current and future build-contend that they could help ing projects on this campus. structure the conversations to 
Five years ago, in anticipation of the the point of verbalizing the wishes of University's ambitious col).struction the students and alumni into an archi­plans, several faculty members from tectural or spatial concept. the School of Architecture proposed the I have listened to many architecture formation of an advisory council to aid students voice their opinions and frus­an administration with little to no trations as they have watched one architectural background. This council opportunity after another pass them by was not intended to become a platform on campus. It is disheartening that upon which faculty would impose their such meaningful discussion has been designs, but was meant to offer an kept within the walls of our school. expert opinion concerning the built "The column of reason" has been our environment at Notre Dame. This pro-first means of recourse, but why not posal was firmly rejected based on the take it a step further. I could cite vari­claim that teachers are supposed to ous institutions that have attempted to teach and not meddle with university integrate their students and faculty affairs. This response contends that it with their campus planning but ironi­is wrong for members of a community cally, the most compelling precedent is to take an active interest in its future. our very own university. 
The faculty members that the univer-In the 1920s, the University was sity wishes to relegate to their respec-seeking a master plan for the campus. tive academic tower are internationally The administrators asked Francis recognized as foremost experts in their Kervick, the chairman of the architec­fields. They were sought out to help ture department, and Vincent Fagan, a guide the school's curriculum toward a professor of architecture, to develop a study of traditional architecture. The concept. Their proposal was chosen uniqueness of this type of program and despite an offer from a very prominent the reputations of our professors have architect by the name of Frank Lloyd brought this university and the School Wright. Their plan resulted in the orga­of Architecture national, as well as nization and definition of open farm-international attention. Most.recently, land to form South Quad. They were several professors have been involved also responsible for the design of the with projects near Beirut, Jordan, and residence halls Lyons, Howard and Greece. Morrissey. Their plan would dictate the 
Despite their personal endeavors, the development of the campus for the next faculty has spent years sharing their 30 years. Another chairman of the knowledge and expertise with us in the department, Frank Montana, was hopes of building our future course, called on for the design of over nine whichever form that may take. And just buildings on the campus from the like our professors, we too have a 1960s through the 1970s. I lis works desire to share our newly acquired included the CCE, Hammes bookstore knowledge with classmates and yes, and the post office. Then, most recent-most definitely, our administration. ly, the University held a design compe-Unfortunately, the University's policy of tition for the new bookstore. The firm exclusion has extended to the students that won, S/UAIM Collaborative, as well. A prime example is the current employs four Notre Dame alumni, debate over the quality social space on including the principal architect of the ourcampus. firm. 
As I read the article about social Whether or not you agree with the space in Scholastic Magazine, the style of these architects, it is more implicit sociological and architectural important to see what itswork repro­issues addressed by the debate imme-sents-a University that was once very diately struck me. As I read on further, open to encouraging their faculty and I was sadly disappointed to discover the students to participate in its develop-manner in which the administration ment. If the administration would only was seeking a solution. I first noticed recognize the School of Architecture as that the school had hired a large, com-the resource it is, they might be pleas­mercial consulting firm to analyze the antly surprised at the level of talent situation here at Notre Dame. A group and thoughtfulness they encounter. I do of designers who have never attended not dare to suggest that you carry out the University or lived on its campus everything we propose, merely open will supposedly interview a number of your minds to our suggestions. After students and faculty and then produce all, as students of Notre Dame, do we interesting charts that quantify the not have the University's best interest pulse of Notre Dame social life. It con-at heart? cerns me that the administration prefers to place this critical decision in Marybeth Failla is a fifth-year archi­the hands of a firm who has no more tecture student. emotional attachment to our university The views expressed in this column than any other. They did not even are those of the author and not neces­entertain the possibility of opening dis­sarily those ofThe Observer. cussions with the architectural staff who has been a part of the Notre Dame 
Death by Starvation: Death with Dignity? 
In 1994, 51 percent of Oregon voters food and water, she died. The official approved the Death With Dignity Act. cause of death was "shock due to dehy­This November, they rejected, by a 60-dration due to traumatic brain injury." 40 margin, a proposal to repeal the act. Withdrawal of food and water will not 

endure as a usual technique for inten­tional killing of patients. Since the law acquiesces in international killing by starvation and dehydration. it makes no
Charles 
sense for it to forbid such killing by a painless injection. In the 1986 Massachusetts Brophy case, Justice Lynch, dissenting from the withdrawal 

Rice 
of food and water from an incompetent vegetative patient, said, "The with­drawal of 000 food and water is a diffi­cult, painful and gruesome death; the Court challenges are expected, -but that cause of death would not be somn Oregon result has prompted efforts to underlying physical disability or the
00. 

enact similar laws in other states. withdrawal of some highly invasive The Oregon Act provides that a medical treatment, but the unnatural "capable" adult, "determined by [two cessation of feeding hydration Why
oo. 

physicians] to be suffering" from an not usc more human methods of "incurable and irreversible" terminal euthanasia if that is what we indorse?" disease which "will, produce death If you euthanizcd a dog by starvation.
000 

within six months," "who has you could be prosecuted.
000 

expressed his or her wish to die, may Justice Lynch recounted the evidence make a written request for medication in the case as to the usual effects of [to end] his or her life in a humane and starvation and dehydration: "Brophy's dignified manner." The patient must mouth would dry out and become caked also make "an oral request and reit­or coated with thick material His
000 oo· 

erate [it] to the attending physician no tongue would swell, and might crack. less than 15 days after making the ini­His eyes would recede back into their tial request." "No less than 48 hours orbits and his cheeks would become shall elapse between the patient's writ­hollow. The lining of his nose might ten request and the writing of I the I pre­crack and cause his nose to bleed. His scription." The Act applies only to skin would hang loose on his body and Oregon residents. And it docs not become dry and scaly. His urine would authorize "... any person to end a become highly concentrated, leading to 
00. 

patient's life by lethal injection, mercy burning of the bladder. The lining of his killing or active euthanasia." stomach would dry out, and he would 
In Washington v. Glucksberg and experience dry heaves and vomiting. Vacca v. Quill, this year, the Supreme His body temperature would become Court upheld laws forbidding assisted very high. His brain cells would dry out. suicide and left open thlil constitutional­causing convulsions. I lis respiratory ity of laws, like Oregon's, which allow tract would dry out, and the thick it. In Vacco, the Court said that "a State secretions could plug his lungs and 
000 

may prohibit assisting suicide while cause death IHJis major organs, 
000 

permitting patients to refuse lifesav­including his lungs, heart, and brain.
000 

ing treatment land] it may permit pal­would give out and he would die." 497 liative care which may have the N.E.2d at 642, n.2
00. 000 
unintended 'double effect' of hastening Paul Brophy died eight days after his the patient's death [W]hen a doctor feeding was terminated. The stated 
00. 

000 000
provides palliative care the physi­cause of death was "pneumonia." "!lis 
cian's purpose and intent-is, or may be, death was extremely peaceful." said only to ease his patient's pain." Mrs. Brophy's lawyer. During those "Palliative care" includes what the final days Brophy received only anti­Supn~me Court referred to as "terminal convulsants, antacids and laxatives. sedation." While that physician's intent It will become increasingly possible to in such cases may be to relieve pain, it reduce the pain of starvation and dehy­may instead be to kill. It can be difficult dration. However, at best, it is a diffi­for the law to determine the physician's cult way to die and it takes several intent. days. That it will be replaced by a pain­
We can expect officials and courts to less injection or death pill is a foregone defer to medical judgment in such conclusion. In a Harris poll this fall, 68 cases, barring exceptional circum­percent answered "yes" when asked if stances. This will enable physicians to terminally ill people should be allowed sedate their willing patients to death as to obtain a lethal perscription. long as they arc circumspect about it. More than three decades of contra­The experience in Holland, where ception and abortion have left the active assisted suicide is tolerated, indi­United States with a diminished pool of cates that such practices will not be workers to support the elderly, sick and limited to willing patients and will be disabled. If, through contraception. extended to others who, in the physi­man makes himself' the arbiter of when cian's judgment, would be better off life begins, he will predictably make dead, including incompetents who will himself the arbiter, thmugh abortion, have the desire to die attributed to suicide and euthanasia, of when it ends. them. "The 1990 Remmelink Report by All are based on utilitarian approach. Dutch researcher P.J. van der Maas In Evangelium Vitae, Pope John Paul II found involuntary euthanasia in 30.76 described euthanasia as "one of thn percent of the cases studied. The New more alarming symptoms of the 'cul­England Journal of Medicino published ture of death,' in prosperous soci­a 1995 study by him in which 22.5 per­eties, markPd by [a] preoccupation with cent of euthanized patients had not el'lieiency which sees elderly and 
000 000 

given doctors their consent." disabled people as intolerable and too Washington Times, Nov. 4, 1997, p.A2. burdensome. These people are isolat­
00. 

It is also difficult for the law to deter­ed by their families and by society, mine whether the intent is to kill when which are organized on criteria of 
00. 

the technique is not sedation but the productive ef!icicncy according to withdrawal of nutrition and hydration. which a hopelessly impaired life no Competent patients are allowed by the longer has any value." No. 64 If you law to starve and dehydrate themselves haven't read Evangelium Vitae, you to death. As to incompetents, the should. And share it with your theology Supreme Court, in the 1990 Cruzan professor. It might be a news flash to case, allowed withdrawal of food and him. water from an incompetent vegetative patient who was not dying, was not Professor Rice is on the Law School insignificant discomfort and had a life faculty. /lis column appears every other expectancy of 30 years. The intent Friday. clearly was to kill her for the purpose of The views expressed in this column relieving her, in accord with her desire, are those ofthe author and not neces­of a burdensome or useless life. On Dee. sarily those of The Observer. 26, 1990, 12 days after removal of the 
VIEWI'OIN'I'
Friday, November 21, 1997 page 15 
• CHICI<EN SOUP FOR THE OBSERVER 
Through the Eyes of a Child 
Since arriving at this University near­ly a year and a half ago, I have had many teachers, each with seemingly endless knowledge about their respec-
Jaclyn Villano 

tive fields of sociology, French, litera­tunl and the like. I have been taught by gifted graduate students, world­renowned professors, and published authors. So who knew that among all of the brilliant scholars I've encoun­tered in my college career, I would learn some of life's most valuable lessons from a group of wide-eyed, innocent four-year olds? 
My roommate and I volunteer every Tuesday at the Early Childhood Drvrlopment Center on campus, and it is hem that I have encountered some of tlw best teachers I will ever know: children. The two hours a week I sptmd with these kids serve as a rPmindf'r that thrrP is more to life than studying and partying and dances. So oftPn. we go through our daily routines without thinking and br,fore we know it. liftl quickly becomes stale. For these children, life is still a source of wonder, something to cherish and be excited about ... and something not to be taken too sflriously. 
There is one instance in particular that stands out in my mind. On my first day at the ECDC. l met a· bouncy, r,ner­getic little boy named "Lucas." When I rnterml thn room. he came bounding up to me and introduced himself. Upon learning my name. he dissolved into giggles and informed me that I had a "fuzzy" name that reminded him of a big !ish. With that, he ran off in search of more Legos to finish the pirate ship he had been creating. 
Later on. l noticed that Lucas was very intnnt on getting and keeping the attlmtion of a little girl in the class, Hosie. 
If she would choose to play a comput­!lr game, Lucas was right there at her side. If Rosie was talking with her girl­friPnds. Lucas made sure his presence was known by pulling her hair. Like a shadow, or a love-struck little boy, 
• ON THE POLLEN PATH 
Lucas followed Rosie everywhere. He knew what he wanted and he pursued it relentlessly, despite her sometimes loud protests. At one point, he turned tD her and shouted from across the room, "Someday, I'm gonna marry you, Rosie!" 
Embarrassed, she yelled back, "Stop it, Lucas!" But he just flashed her a huge grin and proclaimed, "You'll see, Rosie! Somed~y!" 
I wish I had the power to freeze that moment in time. I marveled at his determination, for he had spoken these words with utter assurance, as if it had never occurred to him to doubt their truthfuln·ess. More than anything, I wanted to shake him ;[nd say, "Don't ever lose this, kid. Don't ever stop believing that what you want can become real, no matter how out of reach it may seem." 
But how could I explain this to a four­year old child? By the time I turned around, he was off hitting another little boy with a pillow, having no idea of the lesson he had just taught me. 
Children have an amazing ability to speak fearlessly and freely about what­ever is on their minds. be it a comment about a name that they find amusing, or a declaration of love for a classmate. Kids have too much to learn to be polit­ically correct. They are much too busy LIVING to be tactful. In early years, the language of a child is always simple, honest and straight from the heart. Perhaps time is cruel in taking this away from us. 
What would life be like if we could all stand up and proclaim our innermost feelings without giving a thought to the consequences? How different would our lives be if we could all shout aloud the things we keep hidden deep within, things we long to be heard but are too afraid to say? Even when faced with rejection, if we could all remember how to just smUe and hold fast to the knowledge that if we believe in some­thing enough, then one day it can become a reality? 
"You'll see, Rosie! Someday!" He turned away after that, and never saw the tiny smile that played at the corners of her mouth. 
But I did. 

Jaclyn Villano is a sophomore Arts and Letters major. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not neces­sarily those ofThe Observer. 
come a. game. However, the games that Notre: Dame has lost during Powlus' care~t h~ve by no means been his fault. 1 played · · t;terback in high school and I k:Op~t .. t many times appears to he the.qu ........ ck's faultisactually attrib~ utable t(l ihe receiver nmning the wrong pattern9r the lineman missing a block. Most fans cannot pick up on these less noticeable mistakes. However. those who 
· · recognize these mistakes real­
er players are the cause of man plays that have appeared to most fans to be Powlus' fault. · In addition, Powlus consistently correct­
·ly reads the defenses and audibles at the line mage to eha11ge what would ·. ha disastrous play into a sue­Not all quarterbacks have the dothis. 
Our fight song speaks about loyalty. It says thatour loyal sons will march onward to victory. However, the loyalty ofoursq~must be questioned as of late. 
.. Eveni£qpe disagrees withthe assertion that Ron Powlns is a good quarterback, he is still amember of the Notre Dame family. Family members are to be treated with loyalty and respect. Ron has shown hisloyaltyto this university throughout his fi?e X~ars here. He came back for a fifth y!:!Jtrto help the transition to a new coachingstatrgo smoother. He has con­tinued to state that he would not trade bis experiences for anything because he was able to beapart ofNotre Dame. For him . to say th~t after what he has gone ·throli:g~1fuly shows what it means to be aloyals9:ti of Notre Dame. Sadly;.though, this loyalty has not been returned this season. Tomorrow will be Ron Powlus' last game at Notre Dame ..,.o~w~~u,, He has taken more abuse and his career than anyone Ron Powlus' statis­. that he has been one of the best·quarterbacks in this school's history. It is ~p to you to decide in your own mind whetMr or not you believe that he has been.·.·· ver, it is your duty to be a 
Jo~ ~otre Dam~ this weekend by. sho nPowlus thatwe.appreciate the e . .arid loyalty that he has given to this school. We should all show him and his family that we know what it means to be a J)at~ ofthe Notre Dame family by s.endih · (Iffone ofourfamily membersin · · ·ate mannerto the cheers and 
that.he deserves. 
Jamie Bordas 
Law student Novembet 20, 1997 

The Personal Gamble ofHappiness 
Hight about this time of year it all starts to come crashing down. The snow starts to fall (and does not stop until April) the temperature drops, the 

Kyle Smith 
11u and cold season arrives, and, worst of all. term papers, projects and finals lurk just a few short weeks away. With all thnse dark clouds hanging overhead, many start to get quite cranky and will whine to anyone who will listen about how rotten their life is right now. 
Listening to these people complain is something to complain about in and of itself. All of us succumb to stress at one time or another, yet many feel the need to makn their worries everyone else's, as if we all have not been through it before. I am reminded of a "Calvin and llobbns" in the paper a few years back: "I hate all this wind! Boy, this is unpleasant! Stupid, miserable wind! What lousy weather! What an awful day!," whines Calvin. Hobbes, always the optimistic stoic, insightfully asks Calvin "Well if you can't change it, what's the point in griping about it?" only to have Calvin respond ''I'm not going to let a little wind be more annoy­ing than me." 
Philosopher Alan Watts describes those who cannot accept the bad as well as the good as "playing the game of black and white." What Watts means by this is that those who play this "game" are always trying to force one side (in this case happiness and pleasure) to conquer the other side (misery and hard times). What these people do not real­ize, explains Watts, is that black cannot exist without white and white cannot exist without black. He compares the conundrum to trying to have only one end of a stick without the other end. To use another example, it is like trying to keep the mountain but lose the valley. Watts encourages us to accept all our highs and lows as part of the whole wonderful experience called living. To quote an old Arab proverb, "All sun­shine makes a desert." 
Watts' philosophy is akin to a story some friends of mine recently told me. The self-proclaimed "Poker King of the Midwest," Stu Ungar, has frequently been met with glory and defeat. Known in the poker world as "The Kid," Ungar possesses one of the most unyielding poker faces anywhere, a mirror image of his stoic persona. Ungar has won and lost hundreds of thousands of dollars in just a few hours time, yet he has never reveled in his winnings, nor despaired about his debts. The Kid, simply, plays the game. Ungar sums up his life phi­losophy with an analogy to the game of poker: "In the long run, everyone gets the same quality of cards, a few good hands and plenty of bad ones. It's how you play all those hands collectively that matters." 
The practical wisdom of Stu Ungar, learned in casinos across the Midwest and also in his formative years on the streets of New York's Lower East Side, is apparent throughout history. For exam­ple, Saint Boethius, a Roman philoso­pher who lived during the sixth century, wrote that allowing the "wheel of for­tune" to determine one's ultimate happi­ness is unwise. It would be quite unfor­tunate for one tt'l be happy when rich and unburdened by work, yet sad and despondent when in debt, ill or under duress because, as Watts tells us, if you have the mountain you cannot escape the valley. Instead, countered Boethius, one can only find true happiness in immutable things. That is to say, one can only find happiness in things which are eternal and unaffected by good or bad fortune. 
Another old philosopher, Epictetus, recognized as one of the most prominent. philosophers of the stoic school, pro­posed ideas similar to those of Saint Boethius a few hundred years prior. Epictetus, much like Hobbes, argues that the universe is somehow a perfect, organic whole and that any occurrence (good, bad or neutral) is inseparably linked to all other events. Herein lies true happiness. Like Hobbes told Calvin, instead of trying to alter the outside world (which we cannot change) to bring it in line with our desires, we should put our desires in line with the way the outside world really is. 
Finally, I offer Rudyard Kipling's words of wisdom about a life well-lived, summed up beautifully in this excerpt from his famous poem, "If:" 
"If you can make one heap of all your winnings/And risk it on one turn of pitch-and-toss, /And lose, and start again at your beginnings/ And never breathe a word about your loss; /Yours is the Earth and everything that's in it, /And, which is more, you'll be a Man, my son!" 
Kyle Smith is a sophomore philosophy major who resides in Morrissey Manor. He can be reached by e-mail at Smith.334@nd.edu. His column appears every other Friday. For more jaded sto­ries about the lives and times ofgam­bling men, call up the poker kings of Morrissey, Drew Brennan and Frank Cracchiolo. They would love to hear from you. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those ofThe Observer. 

------·-·..........------------_.......-----·~---­

ACCENT 
Friday, November 21, 1997 


s 
I ;;tV 
a 
• 

-
. . l
:~ 
h-.,'·. .:.<-,~ .. 

~ .w~'::':"':-~.'t~:·;Y#~( «· <. . :·, : 

History Notre Dame hat only faeed the Vlralnla once, and that was on Ja11. 2, 1989, at the Sunkltt fietta Bowl. The 34-21 lrith vietory teaton •• we ~ent 12-0 and won 1 national championthip Here'• how it went down: Notre Dame teored on ltl firtt pottelliont held WVU without 1 firtt down through the flrlt 20 Minutes. 
On the third play from terlmmage, Maj Harrit went ..-..~·· tidelines with 1 teparated left thoulder. He continued to play although teverely tet baek by the to Harrlt, WVU lott John Stroia and Jim Gray to concu11io11t and Undra Johnton to 1 knee ttraln. 
Meanwhile, the Flahtlng lrlth had hiked rUe Baumann kicked two field 101lt to keep the game relatively elose Th• Mo en thl•a• tot •••ry for N D -yar~ U111 to ehanee the mome11tum of the ••. ·...... < three huse plays .for eoatecutlve I•••••· After that the ···•••· .otafalaeert ma4e the 111111 •••• 1 lot aloter th111 it really 
WII. 

Co Nlokn1 Conferena Reaorcl v. N D 
...... ,,••• rah ,., A•• let •• pi•••• te her 
Other• ••Y ~~ ~leek er erl••••• ~~~ ftr •• lt'e lel4 an4 Blue. Let ell ear treu~lee ~~ fereette11, Let ••ll•t• eplrlt rule, We'll jel11 ••• etve eur leyel efftrta Fer the 1••• ef ••r •I• ••heel. 
• lt'a Weat Vlrtl•la, lt'a Wlat Vlrtl•l•
,•. ,,,...,.,., •.....,...,.
0.•• •• yeu e14 era4a, J•l• with ua t•••• 1•4•, 
lt'a Weat Vlrtl•l• ••• •• eheerl ••• ,, ••• tlllt, ~.,.. ••••••••,, •• , •• Itt 111H1r what the pHple llf, Fer there Ia •••tht te fear; the 1••1'• all here, It hall te Weat Vlrtl•la, Hallf 
ACCENT
Friday, November 21, 1997 

.. . . ~· ­

e .:, a·c'c"'h~tL ~'.·. '.,
CC.'··e...·. s·."'"~···.' s 
.. s:·'"·· 
~ 
·....~,:: wt'', ·············"'. 



-

By JOSEPH WEILER Assistant Accent Editor 
u cannot escape them. Everywhere you look they are there. If you 
un they will be there. If you hide they will be there. And if you are 
oolish enough to try to enjoy a cold brew while at a home football game, they most certainly will be there. 
They are the myriad of men assigned to the gates and isles at every con­test tried in the Notre Dame stadium. They are, THE MEN IN YELLOW. Yes, they are the ushers. 
As this first historic season in the new stadium draws to a close, Accent decided to take a closer look at those heroic men chosen to meet, greet, and enforce the law. Who are they? What do they want? What exactly do they do besides escort rowdy fans from the stadium? And what does it take to be one of the few, the proud, the ushers? 
"There are a tremendous amount of applicants each year," says Cappy Gagnon, coordinator of stadium personnel, "and we don't even advertise for them. They just come to us." Of this huge pool of applicants, about 850 are fortunate enough to be chosen for the nation's single largest corps of ushers. And, contrary to popular belief, they are not all Notre Dame alums, nor are they overeager parents of students. In fact, there are only three members of the ushering staff who can claim this university as their Alma Mater, of which Gagnon ('66) is one. 
So if they are not alumni or parents then, who are these people and where do they come from? "They are the loyal fans," says Gagnon. And amazingly, about 550 of these men are unpaid volunteers. The other 300 are either ticket takers who don't get to see most of the game or supervi­sors in charge of the rest of the staff. Until about seven years ago, nobody was paid. No other school in the country can claim such undying loyalty in its staff. 
Even more mind-blowing than that stat is that these men aren't just locals either. While a majority of the volunteers come from southwest Michigan and northern Indiana, they are a diverse crowd with representa­tives from across the nation: Los Angeles, Washington, D.C., Chicago, Detroit and St. Louis. 
These men aren't just your average "Joe Blows" either. Gagnon boasts of lawyers,· architects and physicians! Also, two current ushers were even recruited to play for the Golden Dome back in their day. The Notre Dame fan truly is a special breed. ·· 
Being chos!'Jn as one of 850 ushers out of thousands of potential appli­cants seems an intimidating feakbut Gagnon claims that the qualifications are really quite simple. First and foremost an applicant needs to be 21. "Other than thai, we arelookin~fot men who can be friendly greeters and ambassadors for the Universicy;i They also need. to be able to know when to put the fa~side away aridwh~~ tlley have to be an usher." -­
And just when is that? "Well, unfortunately, people do need to be escorted out of the stadium. Most of the time it is because of infringement of the alcohol policy," which, l'ltated briefly is: you can't have any. Aside from that, both students and people .in the general admission section have 

been removed from the stadiu~ for various violations. such as doing pushups after touchdowns and fighting with other fall$; ... . . .. ...··· ...... 
After so~~~~e has met all .. q)!Witlcations · al!.~J ~att finally call thell1· . selves the' proud owners of a. i Yi'!llow hat and ja:ck¢t.Jheir duties a$ .~ offiCialushera,t the Notre Dam i ditun can begin. .· · · 
Once chosenkthe ushers are required-to attend all.ofthe games. Hl:~rejs a typical Saturday: 
5:45a.m..'-Ga.gn0n opensthe!rt'aahi.Q:l... 
6:oo atm:"> X.crew ofushe 

:\)~-_:;:EE~,~~~·-··· .·.-.-·. 

.··.·•···•• +0?/
9:SO a.m. ~The top 25 ··· 
a$s~riibl'~4 .s~. start to plan for game day .~l:l,m~s and pr()hleltls• •.··. ·. For instance; there are ty . and people $lipping. Other course. alcohol vioHfno~. :····:Jift:-~~--:-'-:·.--.--"'·' 
J""+•J)~l'a;m;-All of the usher~p~ptailJ$arrive. 
~. ' ,.
. 

f1;!30 a~nie< ' All 
about Halftifihour good amo. . of 
watch for in 
Ga.metim~ MI )Yhile they are allowed to watch the game, they have no seats andare e¥l)ected to be on duty should the occasion arise that they need to be of any assi?tallC~' 
-The ushers are expected to stay until most of ­and are usually done about 15 minutes aft~r the 
ImagJme anyone wanting to be an usher, much They do receive what Gagnon calls . the Notre.Dame experience, but they -u.u.uu•c~.lWJJ'P"'-for in watching a game. Not only rowdy fans and problems that should 
• being an usher is not entirely began the program in out onto the field and 
, just recently would give up · , while working at a Notre Dame football 
provided l>Y'the'tfshers during home football games 

. entire eff6ft require to pull off six games throughout the 
Tb(i:U\satitls tif employees and volunteers all pull together to make sure 
they serve is happy. And, if they've done their job correctly, you'll never even know they've been there. 
_page 18 The Observer • SPORTS Friday, November 21, 1997 
• MEtts CRoss CmJNTRY 
First-time Big East champs race into NCAA finals 
By KATHLEEN O'BRIEN Sports Writer 
Another successful season. Another trip to the NCAA cham­pionships. Will it be another top­10 finish? 
The Notre Dame men's cross country team may be the best­kept secret in Notre Dame ath­letics. The Fighting Irish are looking for their sixth top-1 0 fin­ish in the past eight years this Monday at the NCAA champi­onships at Furman University in Greenville, S.C. They are ranked ninth in the nation and recently won their first Big East champi­onship. 
Under head coach Joe Piane, Notre Dame has become a perennially dominant team. Senior Jason Hexing is a return­ing all-American. 
In its first three years in the Big East, Notre Dame has fin­ished third, fourth, and first. The team has also qualifies for nationals virtually every year. 
Yet many people in the Notre Dame community are not even aware of the team's success. "People don't even realize how good we are," said junior Ryan Maxwell. 
Piane and the runners empha­sized the role recruiting plays in Notre Dame's success. 
"We've been real fortunate to get recruits that blend in with the returning kids, so the chem­istry is good," said Piane. "If the kids on the team feel that a kid wouldn't fit in, I stop recruiting him, so we get kids with similar interests. We recruit kids that will fit into our scheme. That way, they believe they're going to be in the top 10 in the country and believe they're going to qualify for nationals." 
Another major factor in Notre Dame's continued succ-:ess is its work during the off-season. "Summer is the time when cross country teams are made," said Piane. "I tell the kids they cut the diamond during the sum­mer, and what we do during the season is polishing." 
In the summer, the runners primarily do long-distance run­ning. Piane encourages them to do three road runs in the sum­mer and very occasional interval training, mainly as a motivator. After nationals, the top seven will run only distance for a cou­ple weeks, with the exception of freshmen Ryan Shay and Anthony Alt, who will run in the 
U.S. Junior national champi­onship the first weekend in December in Portland, Ore. 
Hexing, the team's top finisher at the 1996 NCAA cross country championships, was the first runner in five of seven meets last year. He placed second overall at the Big East and dis­trict cross country meets last year. He is a cross country, indoor track, outdoor track, and academic all-American -the first to do all four at Notre Dame. 
"Jason's running the way 
Jason Hexing's capable of run­ning. He's a real workhorse," said Piane. "He's capable of being an all-American, and so is !Antonio! Arce." 
A major factor in Notre Dame's success has been the performance of the two fresh­men, Shay and Alt. "The two freshmen in the top five have adapted to college cross country exceptionally well," said Piane. "I think they've been running just wonderfully. The future looks excellent." 
Shay and Alt were the first two freshmen finishers overall at the Big East championships and the second and fourth fresh­men at the Great Lake Region. 
The final key had been the consistency of seniors Mike Conway and Scott Grace. 
''They had flirted with the top seven in the past, but really are in the top seven this year," said Piane. 
At the NCAAs on Monday, the first goal for the Irish is to finish in the top 10, but they would also like to be among the top five teams and come away with at least one all-American. 
"We want to get in the top 10. That's something we'll be very disappointed if we don't do," said Hexing. "We're reaching for fifth. Four teams have set them­selves apart, but if we run really well, fifth is there for the tak­ing." 
For the seniors, Piane said. ''I'd like to see Jason as an all­American and see Scott and Mike run the way they've run all year. That's been the hallmark of Notre Dame cross country the last 10 years -the guys don't screw up and they don't make mistakes." 
The team will be competing against 21 other teams from across the country. The biggest competition should come from defending champion Stanford. Arkansas, Michigan. and Colorado. The championships are Monday at 11 a.m. 

The Observer accepts classilleds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day clas­
Classifieds sifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
NOTICES  I I  FOR RENT  Complete Sega System. CD, 4 controls, Genie, 30 garnes. 450+Value. Asking 300. Call 1­ LOW PRICES FOR SALE  Drew of An: You no longer have to sit at the kid­die table  Maybe after break we can buy a basket.  
SUN. SURF, SAND. SUDS, and S... Spring Break with Bianchi-Rossi Tours in Acapulco! Packages from $425.90. Party packages  WALK TO CAMPtJS 2-5 BEDROOM HOMES $195/PERSON 232-2595  5398 On Simonton Lake, home, central air, heated garage, 40' pier. (219)262-2699  N.D. G.A.'S 271-9412.  AHA HA HA!! Happy 20th Love, The Big One • Here come the pyros!! No chicken  Hi Tenille. I hope your weekend goes well; I'll be in the library think­ing of you. Maybe you can bother me tonight and we'll get some ice cream.  
includes: FREE cover, VIP service, &more. Call for info 800-875-4525.  -----------------------­BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY  SPACIOUS CONDOMINIUM  WANTED N D G A'S TO ALL HOME GAMES  is goi~g to stand in our way! We're #1!  The Observer just isn't fun unless  
www.bianchi-rossi.com  219 291 7153  WALK TO CAMPUS Garage, pool, AIC, hardwood  271 1526  000 THE COPY SHOP 000  there are 40 pages to do and 2 hours to do it.  
GREAT RESUMES! Only 4 mi.  ROOMS IN PRIVATE HOME FOR  floors, ceramic tile, much more!!!  LaFortune Student Center  
from ND campus on U.S. 31/33. Call (616)684-4633. Spring Break '98 Cancun, Jamaica, Bahamas, & Florida. Group Discounts & Free  FOOTBALL WEEKENDS AND OTHER ND-SMC EVENTS. VERY CLOSE TO CAMPUS -5 MIN. DRIVE OR 15-20 MIN. WALK. 243-0658.  Just One Year Old!! See it--http://www.nd.edu/ -tmandell/condo.html Call (219) 289-8914 Sega Genesis w/ 2 cntrls,  For Sale: 4 VW GAs. 243-2643 4 WVA GA's for SALE call Victoria @ x1 073  -J High-Speed Copies -J Canon Color Laser Copies -J Digital Color Printing -! Binding & Laminating -J Public Fax Service 631-FAX1 Phone 631-COPY  The Observer admits no responsi­bility for the GPAs of its editors. I'm sorry; it must have been my uterus talking!  
Drink Parties! Sell Trips, Earn Cash & Go Freet 1-800-234-7007 www.endlesssummertours.com  THAT PRETTY PLACE, Bed and Breakfast Inn has space available for football/parent wknds. 5 Rooms with private baths, $70-$90, Middlebury, 30 miles from campus.  12 games, incl. Madden, FIFA, etc., $200. Call x-1926. WV student ticket 15 $ leave a  FOR SALE: 4 GA's for WV game -­x0680 (leave message) I got 2 REAL GA's for WVU -these  Happy 21st Deanette!!! Even your friends won't be able to save you this time .... GET READY!!!!! No more excuses...  Emily, Emily, Emily, Emily Emily, Emily, Emily, Emily. Just wanted to get your attention! -LP.  
ILOST & FOUND I REWARD: Lost gold shamrock pin.  Toll Road, Exit #107, 1-800·418-9487. 1,2 & 3 BDRM HOMES.GILLIS  message for george @ 4-2628 TICKETS  are not those stinkin' student trade­ins. If you want them -call 634­1471  The Group DANA, you're the best!!  Michele­It's good to be crabby sometimes. Especially when you're not feeling  
Date on back. Sentimental value. If found, please contact Louise at  PROPERTIES.  Need Tickets?  I have 2 student section WV GA's call Brett. x3361  Any SMC student interested in join­ like such a "Pretty Woman." Love ya!  
x4416.  272-6551  Call Josh at 634-3256.  ing a great service organization on  
-·  LOST: Sapphire ring around SDH at dinner Tuesday 11/11. Please  6 BDRM HOME NEXT FALL.272­6551  3 West Virginia GA's for sale. ######## For Sale ########  I HAVE 4 WV TIX WILL SELL AT FACE  campus, consider Circle K. Meetings are Sundays@ 8:15p.m. in Haggar Parlor. Any new mem­ what else did he say that was funny? I can never remember when I need  
help me find it' REWARD. Theresa  ------------------------­ 2 W. Va. student tickets  CALL NICK 246-1146  bers are welcome. Current mem­ to write them.  
x2146 LOST-ROLL OF FILM AT NO­ House to Rent: 3 bedroom, beauti­ful wood floors, new kitchen on his­ (cheap!l) call Jenny @ 687-8435 ########################  PERSONAL  bers: please turn in dues ASAP. Questions: call 284-4397.  NO CLASS FOR ME!  
USC GAME. LOST SOMEWHERE  toric Riverside Dr. 5 min. drive to  Any ND/SMC senior interested in a  Krilla has been awake waaaaaay  
BETWEEN STADIUM & SHUTTLE BUSES. PLEASE CALL 513-922­8756.  ND. Perfect for Grad. students or visiting faculty. $750 a month, util. included. available Jan-June negot.  2 West Virginia GA's for sale call Jen @ 687-8435 <------- Michiana Paintball at Scottsdale Mall. Now open for indoor/outdoor play.  joint service project at the Boys and Girls Club on Mondays or Tuesdays from 2:30 to 4 p.m., please call284­ too long! ------------------------­Katie-did:  
- ......__w;_~_N_T_E_D_  ___.I  IC.IIJoh~~;4~~E  FOR SALE 1 WV student tix CHEAP! call Brett @ 0773  Students w/ND-SMC ID-1/2 price field fee. 291-2540.  4397.  Annie's calling! Hi Joe, my favorite physics major.  
CHRISTIAN BUSINESS OPPOR­TUNITY Earn a living while spread­ CONDO FOR SALE!  4 GA'S AND 1 STUDENT 4 SALE 4 WV  ND Inquisition http://rosenberg-3a.student.nd.edu We're smarter than you.  What self-respecting Keough boy gets thrown out of Dillon at pari­etals?  Now you have a classified all to yourself! -Red  
ing God's word. Join Scriptures.  PERFECT CONDITION ALL NEU­ JASON X2010  It's late. I'm tired.  
Sign up is FREE. To receive a  TRAL  CATERING-CALL FAZOLI'S  
FREE Info Pack call 1-800-585­5873 option 3 and .listen to  HIGH CEILINGS SKYLIGHTS FIREPLACE 2 BRS ALL APPLI­ WV GA's 4-sale. $20 O.B.O Justin 4-1722  277-4008  Kevin: I'm coming for you! -Laura;)  ER... ER ... ER. .. ER ...  
•  "Success with Scriptures." Please leave my 1.0.#5237. SALES/MARKETING Excellent opportunil',. Part-time per­son needed. We will work around  ANCES BASEMENT AND GARAGE! CALL SANDY 235-3561 IMMEDI­ATE POSSESSION!  2WVGA's 45 yd ln. x1998 NOTRE DAME FOOTBALL TICKETS  Would you like a tossed salad today?????? what the heck does that mean  Corn: it does a body good. What? Lost on a minor technicality? RED ALERT!!!!  3:20 and no end in sight! "Red, I do believe you arc talking out of-" Oh, I can't print that, can I?  
your schedule. Great income. Fax resume to 1-800-333-7562 or leave name & nurnber at 1-800-332-5643.  Near Campus ­1338 Miner St. 2 BR Enclosed Front Porch. New Roof, Siding & Carpet.  BUY • SELL ·TRADE 232-0058  Hey Sweet Daisy!  Fall back to the defensive positions, ladies! The first code name has been breached!  "No, I mean the last person, EVER." I like phcorn.  
Wanted -male tutor for 17 yr old high school boy -meet twice weekly  Central Air & Full Basement $44,900 1-800-382-2952  CONFIDENTIAL TICKET-MART, INC.  that was way funnier then it should have been  REMEMBER:  Tamiko: isn't that your name?  
2 hours each time. $30 per week. Call289-5149  BUY/SELL NO SEASON AND INDI­ Whenever K&K get together, it's  Lose lips sink ships!  lo non ho problemi!  
WANTED 2 JANE'S ADDICTION  For sale:  VIDUAL GAME TICKETS. 674-7645.  bad for MY life!  What are we going to do with all that cheese?  Happy birthday Andy Noethe!  
TICKETS!!!! Please help : 631-5144 or 256-1354 . Ask for Zac  2 W. Virginia GA's 50 yd line 634-1009  NO FOOTBALL TICKETS FOR SALE DAYTIME#: 232-2378 EVENING #: 288-2726  carl the smelly fish has bought the farrn. melissa and molly are animal abusers  To all of you whc so faithfully read the personals: this one's for you.  Non me ne importa un fico secco. Someday I will go home. And then I will return.  

Friday, November 21, 1997 

0MPUS 
MINISTRY 
The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 19 
Dear Alumni and Friends, 
.. 

The staff of Campus Ministry extends an invitation to come together and celebrate the Eucharist this weekend 
-

West Virginia University Football Weekend 
Saturday Vigil Masses 
Basilica 30 minutes after game Stepan Center 45 minutes after game 
Sunday Masses 
Basilica 8:00, 10:00 & 11:45 am 
Sacred Heart Parish Crypt 6:00, 7:00, 8:00, • 
9:30 & 11 :OOam Keenan-Stanford 12:00 noon 
The Observer • SPECIAL AD SECTION Friday, November 21, 1997 
South Bend's 

This display was made possible by the combined efforts of Observer Marketing Managers, Greg Szilier and Jeremy Cazares, Ad Designers, Jenn Breslow, Brett Huelat, and Jon King, and the Advertising Department. Contact Greg or Jeremy at 631-6900 for more information. 


11:00 a.m. -1:30 p.m. 
4:00 p.m. -11:00 p.m. Sat.-Sun. 1:0ill.m.-11:00 p,m.
rffi) ~\ , . ',>i,f".,) ,....-., / .~ j i ~ , { {") . \'.1 ;:

.96 ~~ .J u ~ i v. \VI' V; J1 
l~~J +....-..<1'..-~ '-..•.~...... u,~ \...,., -~ 

:'COLORADO 
STEAKI-10 USE 
PRIME RIB • STEAKS 

-=~==~()c==~==­
s~ooo•cocKTMLLOUNGE 

6402 North Grape Road 
277--6368 
·Call for Reservations 

--~----------~---­
~ -------~--------------~------~~~---­
., 

Friday, November 21, 1997 The Observer • SPECIAL AD SECTION 

o Trivia 
o Homemade 

o 7 ft TV Screens 
& Breads 
# 

o Seating for 
o Appetizers
Over 300 
o Salads 

o Extra Large 
o Sandwiches
Booths 
and PASTA

o Mouth Watering Variety of Sandwiches and Entrees 
•Lunches starting at .... $4.25 
\ 
•Dinners starting at .... $5.95 
t 
I ,. 
•Ban uet rooms available u to 200 
I 
Sunday Buffet-Every Sunday $8.95 for Adults $3.9 5 for Children 
I' -~ ~~ r~-. ~--~-/~-~---~-}~-,~ );.Y "' ,, .. ~ .<;;;::: '<" r ,-:;: --''". -~ Bar and Restaurant open 7 days a week 
(219) 272-7376 •130 Dixie Way N., South Bend• FAX 272-7425 (next to Howard Johnso • Call For Reserva!ions 
After the game .. . 
After work... 

After all .. 
It's 
Two Poll-Game c.w.--.J.ocaliolw Grcmaen· 6611 N. Main....., ~ flldtarft 3241 ~Drive 2cl6-f 129 
. .., . . .
FORSUBDAY_-_---
Nt) ,.,{t~ter whe:te you from, we'll be showing team-<. 

~iii~ 
52750 u.s. 33H. 

S.R. 23(East of Ironwood! !Between CleYelud. Daniel Rdl~-----ISening Noln Dille Areal ISenio& Slllary'sl 
243·1111 243·1122 
-. 

FREE DEUVERY ON CAMPUS No Coupon Heceswy Excludel other otrm 
DeiiYely Extra " Not On campus Umlted Time Ollor 
I • Pannesan Cheese Crust • Garlic Butter Crust 'i 
• Extra Pizza Sauce • Side Of Banana Peppers -Just Ask-
Go ND ~West Virginia 

• 
... 

w 
page 22 The Observer • SAINT MARY'S SPORTS Friday, November 21, 1997 
• SAINT MARY's BASKETBALL 
II SAINT MARYS SWIMMING 

Saint Mary's bent on revenge 
Swimmers refocus 
By SHANNON RYAN 
Spons Writer 
The theme of revenge is as common in the Saint Mary's locker room as in a Shakespearean tragedy. 
As the Belles basketball team prepares for its season opener this weekend at Kalamazoo College's Hornet Tip-Off. the returnees remember last year's games against Defiance and Kalamazoo all too well. And they've certainly remind­ed the freshmen about last year more than once. 
Defiance went to national competition after going unde­feated in its regular season, which included a 98-48 annihi­lation of Saint Mary's. 
"They're a tough team," sec­ond-year head coach David Roeder remembered. "We'll have to play an up-tempo game if we want to win." 
If the Belles can triumph, they'll move on to play against Kalamazoo or Whittier College on Saturday. 
Kalamazoo, trying to rebound off a 9-16 season, still boasts a speedy offense which came back from a nine-point deficit to deliver a heartbreak­ing 6 7-79 loss to the Belles last year. 
The Belles have yet to play Whittier. 
Attempting to propel Saint Mary's as far from last year's 4-20 record as possible, Roeder has learned the impor­tance of the first win. 

"We want success early," Roeder said. "It's important for our motivation and confi­dence." 
Reminded of last year's loss­es, which became as habitual as nail biting, he also knows better than to shoot for the stars. 
"We're keeping our goal realistic," Roeder said. "We'd like to improve to .500." 
Although not a lofty aspira­tion, the Belles may still have difficulty reaching it. 
With only nine healthy play­ers averaging 5-foot-6, opti­mism has become as sparse as the handful at tryouts. 
"We're in a tough league," Roeder said about his team's first year in the Michigan Intercollegiate Athletic Association. "It gets frustrating with the injuries and lack of size and numbers. We're going to struggle for awhile." 
"Awhile" may mean up to eight weeks. That's how long three-point leader Nikki Griffin will be out nursing multiple stress fractures in both legs. 
Despite setting school records last year with 355 free throws, 330 steals, and 1,647 
JAZZMAN's 
NITE CLUB 
525 N. Hill Street 233-8505 
lND ANNUAL BRING A PARENT PARTY 
NOVEMBER l1ST FEATURING 
SKALCOHOLICS 
(7PCS SKA & FUNK BAND WITH HORNS) WITH SPECIAL GUEST BAND 
GRAVITY HILL 
Doors open 8:00 p.m. 21 and over with proper IDs $3.00 with College ID -$4.00 without Off Duty Uniform Police Security -Lighted Parking 
Save $1.00 with this ad before 11:00pm, OR Bring a Parent and save $2.00 with student ID and a parent before 11 :OOpm 
Coming Soon Thursday, Dec. 4 TASHI STATION 

• 
Voted: Area's Best Tanning Center Every Year 
r-------, ~-------~ 
1 One Week or 10 Tanning1
1

.. 
! Unlimited 1 1 Tanning 1 
Lo~~~ !':..5..:.~0J 
University Commons 
by UP Mall 
272-7653 
1 
1 Bed 1 1 Sessions 1 
Lo!!I~ $~5..:~0J 
Grape & McKinley 
near KMart 
256-9656 


points, the Belles' offense could not atone for their defensive follies. 
Their easily exhausted defense took the blame for nine fourth-quarter losses within six points. 
Lacking bench depth, the defense may again prove to be a side-stitch for Saint Mary's. 
"We're working on playing aggressive defense without making dumb or ugly fouls," White stated. 
Dumb this team is not. 
Using the 1996-1997 season as a parable, Roeder won't let his squad bury their less-than­pretty record in embarrass­ment. 
"He uses last season as inspi­ration," said Nikes. "lie doesn't focus on records, just on stats. He wants us to remember how close we came to winning so many games." 
The Belles hope their oppo­nents can recall last season's woes as well. 
"Our record was really mis­leading," co-captain Julie McGill said. "They'll all come in thinking it'll be a cakewalk, and we'll really surprise them." 
It may not be a cakewalk for their weekend opponents. But if history proves to repeat itself, it won't be a stroll in the park for the Belles either. 
1fi!  Bed 'N  
~  Breakfast  
Registry  

Try the Option 
.\ 'll<lllll' :\W<ll' Jrotn llotnl·i·­
FB-Grad-Fr. Or.-JPUJ 
~··The lrislt & ND SyrntJol of ;\pproval 
219-291-7153 
ERASMUS BOOKS 
• 
Use:l. lxloks b:u;Jht an:l sold 

• 
25 categories of Books 

• 
25,000 Hardback and Paperback lxloks in stock 

• 
O...t-of-Print Smrch Service: $2.00 


• J>wraisals large an:l smll 
Open noon to six Tuesday through Sunday 1027 E. Wayne South Bend, IN 46617 
(219) 232,8444 
,''ll[:~(afterlosiilo Albion 
By MOLLY McVOY 
Sl?fl~>& Writcr 
Saint Mary's sWimmers swam tough at Albion College yesterday in their sixth dual meet in three weeks; but they dropped the meet to Albion, bringing their record to 2·3 on the year. 
Nearly all of the swimmers had their season-best times and all ofthe relays beat their season highs. . The past two meets have been part of the Belles' training for one of the biggest meets oftheir seas<>n on Saturday. They swim at the Wabash Invitational in Indianapolis, sponsored by Indiana University and Purdue University. 
This meet will predict how the Belles might do nationally. 
Celebrate a friend's birthday with a special Observer ad. 
NOTRE DAME HOME GAMES 
Join Us at Parisi's Lounge 
Serving Sandwiches, Specials & Pizza Before & During the Game. 
Reservations accepted for dinner after the game. 
Call ahead for carry out orders. 

One of the few area restaurants with live dinner music. 
Fri. & Sat., 9 pm to midnight, Sun., 6:30-9:30 pm 
Albert Hidaldo, pianist 
(219) 232-4244 


JN11[1, 1;la~wm a: ~~lti atM1:t.~ 1''il3a:1311 ~tJ JN 
Public Welcome... 
on the campus ofNotre Dame 
Phone (219) 631-2000 

Irish.Courtyard 
Hours: Friday 3:00pm-1 0:30pm Saturday 9:00am-7:00pm 
"Come join us for Irish festivities and football weekend fun!" 
• 
Grilled Burgers & Brats 

• 
Cold Beverages 

• 
Big Screen T.V.s 

• 
All Under a Large Tent 


Dining Room 
• Casual Dining Serving Daily, Breakfast, Lunch, and Dinner 
_. Reservations Recommended 
• 
Notre Dame Souvenirs 

• 
Live "Irish Band" Fri. 4:00pm-1 0:30pm Sat 1 0:00am-2:00pm 


Cocktail Lounge 
• 
Sandwich and Appetizer Menu Available Daily 

• 
Popular Campus Gathering Spot 



-----~---------·--~­

Everybody plays at the College Football Hall of Fame! Experience the excitement of an action-packed game, test your skills, or learn from legendary coaches. There's something for everyone at the College Football Hall of Fame! 
• 360o Stadium Theater • Training Center • Pigskin Pageantry • Hall of Champions Strategy Clinic • Bowl Games & National Championships • Great Moments 
-

''THE SCORE" SPORTS RADIO LIVE FROM THE HALL 
Friday, November 21 2:00P.M.-6:30P.M. 
Join 'The Heavy Fuel Crew," Dan McNeil &Terry Boers, 
as they broadcast their show live from the Hall on Chicago's 
most popular sports talk radio station, WSCR-AM 1160 
NOTRE DAME FOOTBALL PREVIEW 
Sponsored by the Knights ofColumbus, Council 553 
Friday, November 21 8:30P.M. in the "Press Box" at the College Football Hall of Fame 
Football history, trivia, door prizes, and the latest information on Notre Dame and West Virginia. Special Guest: Tony Rice 
The world's most exciting and interactive sports Hall ofFame is just a FREE SHUITLE ride away! 
Shuttle Hours & Schedule: Shuttle will run from 12 noon -8:30 P.M. (Friday Only!) 
Bus will pick up and drop offat the Main Circle east ofAlumni Hall on Notre Dame Ave. 


NOTRE DAME 
to Hall of Fame 
12:00 NOON 
1:00 P.M. 2:00P.M. 3:00P.M. 4:00P.M. 5:00P.M. 
6:00P.M. 7:00P.M. 
HAIL OF FAME 
To Notre Dame 
12:30 P.M. 
1:30 P.M. 2:30P.M. 3:30P.M. 4:30P.M. 5:30P.M. 6:30P.M. 7:30P.M. 8:30P.M. 
.....

I .800.440.FAME 
(1.800.440.3263) • http://collegefootball.org/ 
219.235.9999 
~UN/TEDSTIJTES -BURGER Atka· Founding Sponsors: l!iiifPOSTIJL SERVtCErM W KING Seltzer. 
I ...,...... ,.. r,...,...., -..--.....
~ 
I' 

I page 24 The Observer • SPORTS Friday, November 21, 1997 
I 
• JocK STRIP 

Pro wrestling fans addicted to 'a guy soap opera' 
Horseman. 
"Why watch the hapless [Indianapolis) Colts when you can watch real athletic ability in the squared circle. Plus Hie Flair is the greatest man alive," added Barca, who is taking the trip to see the WCW's pay-per-view World War 3 this weekend in Detroit. For Barca Monday Night Football is just another show while the real action takes within the confines of a ring that some­times is surrounded by a steel cage. 
Although wrestling may seem for kids, turn on wrestling one night in your dorm's common room and you are bound to have students reminisce about the good old days of wrestling. 
This happened one night last year as students were studying for a calculus test. The theme music to Monday Night Nitro began to play and cheers for the show rang throughout the room. The occupants of the room began to discuss the latest hap­penings in the wrestling world. As passers-by made comments about people watching wrestling, they couldn't help but be drawn in by the chatter taking place in the room. By the time the show ended, close to 50 members were now gathered around the TV cheering and jeering at every wrestler. One of these occupants was Dave Whelan, a Stanford Hall resident interested in form­ing a pro wrestling club (if inter­ested call 4-1911 ). "The tragic departure of Andre the Giant to the squared circle in the sky left a void in the world larger than 7­foot-4 and 500 pounds," stated Whelan "The pro wrestling club will be an attempt to begin the healing process." 
To many, pro wrestling may seem like a dumb form of enter­taining a mass of people, but as much as people try to deny their feelings towards wrestling, these feelings will always rise like the Undertaker. 
In case you missed the biggest sports news of the past two weeks, I'll inform you now. It wasn't this week's past expan­sion draft nor the numerous trades that~:::=::====~ went down or are about to. It hap­pened in Connecticut and will stand out in many peo­ple's mind as the end of the WWF as we know. What hap­pened? Bret "the Hitman" Hart and "Ravishing" Rick Rude bolt­ed the organization which boasts, "For over 50 years the revolutionary force in wrestling entertainment" and headed over to "Where the big boys play" ­the WCW. 
Those reading this right now are probably saying, "Who cares? Wrestling is fake and not cool." Well professional wrestling may be fake, but deep down inside of all males and quite possibly females there lies a passion for the sport that takes place within the squared circle. Our lives may have changed when little-known Terry Bollea, 
a.k.a. Hulk Hogan, picked up the Iron Sheik while in the camel clutch and slammed him into the turnbuckle, breaking the hold and leaving the Sheik on the mat. Hogan bounced off the ropes and dropped his now famous leg drop across the Sheik's chest, then rolled him for the pin, winning the belt. 

From that moment many became hooked on whatever Hulk had told us. Kids were try­ing to tear off their shirts, saying their prayers, and eating their vitamins. We watched Hogan wrestle the toughest opponents: King Kong Bundy, Andre the Giant (RIP), the Macho Man, Ric Flair, and the Ultimate Warrior. With that one win Hulk Hogan changed the face of the wrestling that our parents used to watch. What does this have to do with ND. you must ask. Simply put, all across the campus of Notre Dame the wrestling fans are coming out of their hibernation and are not afraid to declare that they are wrestling fans. As junior Jerry Barca put it, "Bottom line, wrestling is very entertaining. It is a guy soap opera mixed with athleticism." The fans know that the sport is unreal, but as Barca put it, people are hooked in over what happens outside of the ring -the story lines. 
While most students are watching football on Monday nights. Jerry and his friends are in front of the TV watching either USA or TNT, watching the latest happenings of Degeneration X and the Four 

r------------------------,
~aWtueQ · 
cJ\Aanctno 's 
ITALIAN EATERY 
Football Feast 
Available All Day Saturday and Sunday Monday After 4:00 p.m. 
New and Improved 
*Spaghetti and Meatballs 
*New Appetizers *Chicken Strip Dinners *Games and Attractions (video games) 
**Bring this coupon and receive free 1/2 order of garlic bread w/purchase of meal. 
St. Andrew's Plaza  LaSalle Square  
620 W. Edison Rd. Suite 130  913 N. Bendix Drive  
Mishawaka, IN 46545  South Bend, IN 46628  
254-9533  234-5817  

L------------------~-----~ 
-' 
r---------------~~-----~~--------------~--~~----~~ 
FriJay, November 2 I, I997 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 25 


Software@ 1997 Electronic Arts EA SPORTS, the EA SPORTS logo, and "If it's in the game. it's in the game." are trademarl<s or registered trademarl<s of ElectrOnic Arts in the U.S. and/or other countries. All rights reserved. The "Officially Licensed Collegiate Products" label-Is the exclusive property of The Collegiate Licensing Company. The "Collegiate Licensed Product" label is the property of the Independent Labeling Group. All names, logos, team icons, and mascots associated with the 

.J~;,:L

NCAA. universities. bowls, and conferences are the exclusive property of the respective Institutions. The NCAA Football logo is a registered trademark of NCAA Football Inc. Licensed by Sony Computer Entertainment America for use w1th PlayStation game console. PtayStation and the PlayStation logos are trademarks of Sony Computer 
~ 

Entertainment Inc. All other trademarks are the property of the1r respective owners. Feature sets vary among plaHorms. 
page 26 The Observer· SPORTS Friday, November 21, 1997 
• HOCKEY 

Irish tie Bulldogs in nail-biter 
By JOHN COPPOLELLA 
Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame hockey team's battle against Ferris State last night at the Joyce Center was like a roller coast­er. Up and down, back and forth, in and out, the two teams went at it like the foot­ball team and the .500 mark. 
When was said and done, the Irish were relegated to accept­ing a 5-5 tie with the Bulldogs, in a game that involved more uncertainty and nervousness than a Notre Dame field goal. 
The Irish got on the roller coaster from the inception of the contest. Ben Simon and Troy Bagne had one-on-one breakaways against the Bulldogs that resulted in near misses. 
However, the roller coaster began as the Bulldogs pounded away at Notre Dame's net. This consistent battering against an Irish squad that was seemingly lifeless in the first period led to two goals, the first by Jim Dube at 12:01 and the second by Geoff Bennetts at 13:58, putting the Irish in a hole to begin the sec­ond period. 
In the second period, the roller coaster once again shift­ed and the Irish came out as a team reborn. From the get-go they attacked the Ferris State nets like maggots to a decaying carcass, and emerged with three goals to take the lead. The first goal was credited to Jay Kopischke, as a shot was fired at the Bulldog net from the upper right corner with Ryan Clark and Tyson "Franny" Fraser assisting on the goal. 
Then, the Benoit Cotnoir show took over. The junior defensemen netted two power­play slapshots. At 7:23, Cotnoir found the back of the net 


_..,. 
-
1025 SOUTH BEND AVE. 3 BLOCKS SO. OF STADIUM 
TUES.  $5 COVER & DJ  
WED.  NO COVER  
THURS.  $2 COVER  
DJ IS CAPT. MOORE  
FRI.  OPEN 2:00 PM  
(FREE MUNCHIES)  
ROOM FORA DJ AT 10:00 P.M.  
SAT.  OPEN AT 9:00A.M.  
DJ IS CAPT. MOORE  

GO ND!! 
assisted by Simon and Dan Carlson, and again at 16:28 off a Simon feed. The Irish headed to the third period riding the roller coaster and clinging to a one-goal lead. 
In the third period, the roller coaster went haywire. 
The Bulldogs began the hell­raising with a power-play goal from Kevin Swider at 1:13. The Irish retaliated, and retribu­tion arrived in the form of an Aniket Dhadphale goal two minutes later, set up by Lyle Andrusiak and Brian Urick. 
Ferris State answered with two goals, at 7:37 and 8:41, from Joel Irwin and Brian McCullogh. Ahead 5-4, the Bulldogs looked to upset the Irish and were about to do exactly that until Dan Carlson found the back of the net as a scramble ensued in front of the Bulldog net at 15:39. Carlson rebounded repeated shots by Mark Eaton and Simon and, in the process, led the Irish to overtime. 
Overtime maintained the he!­ter-skelter nature of the first three periods with one excep­tion: no goals were scored. Matt Eisler, who turned in 
another fantastic effort despite what the scoreboard indicates, refused shot after shot and 
ensured that the Irish would emerge with at least a tie. The offense came close a few times, but was unable to find the net and Notre Dame was forced to accept the tie. 
Although the tie earns the Irish a point and elevates their standing in the Central Collegiate Hockey Association,. don't expect the Irish to be happy about the result of this match. 
"We played the game schizo­phrenically," stated Simon, who had three assists. "We know that we are one of the better teams in this league, but we were unable to show that at times tonight. We always expect to win, but this tie hurts more than some losses because we feel that we should have won this game." 


Assistant captain Joe Dusbabek found a lesson in the loss, saying, "Ultimately, they impressed upon us the impor­tant lesson that, although we may be able to dominate the game at any given time, we need to play the whole game consistently in order to win. I am confident we will be able to do this against them Saturday and hopefully for the rest of the season." 
The Irish get another chance to defeat the Bulldogs Saturday night at Ferris State. The Irish, who have been a better team on the road this season, will look to this game as another parameter on which to measure their ascen­sion through the ranks of the CCHA. 


,...--------------------------------------, 
//oa atre G~Jt'(!ia/f'/•9/ioitet! to 
RSVP 
NOTRE DAME FEDERAL CREDIT UNION 
+ NO MINIMUM BALANCE +NO PER-CHECK CHARGES 
(Unlimited check writing) ;::~~~~~~~~~ 
+NO MONTHLY SERVICE CHARGE +OVERDRAFT PROTECT AVAILABLE And. with the direct deposit ofyour paycheck. you may be eligible for the GOLDEN SHAMROCK CLUB with all the benefits of FREE CHECKING and much more. 


+FREE GOLDEN SHAMROCK CHECKS (Non-Duplicate) 
+ 
DISCOUNTS ON SELECTED CONSUMER LOANS 

+ 
FREE TRAVELERS CHEQUES (Maximum $2.000 per year) 

+ 
5 FREE MONTHLY ATM TRANSACTIONS 


(From otherfinancial institutions) 
Jt{lJettf!/< (Jfloice fouffafw 
Internet: www.ndfcu.org • E-Mail: ndfcu@skyenet.net 
r------------------------------------------------------------------­
1 I I 
I THIS COUPON IS WORTH $25* 
I I I I When you 011en a Direct Deposit Account with Notre Dame Federal Credit Union. I 
: Name_______________ Daytime Phone _________ 
:I Address _________________________________ 
I 
: I City. State, ZiP-------------------------­
1 
I * This offer is extended exclusively to qualified Faculty and full-time Employees of the University of Notre Dame, Saint 
I 
I Mary's College and Holy Cross College.$ 25 wilt be credited to your Share Draft Account within 30 days of receipt of your I first direct payroll deposit. Termination of this account prior to 12 months of its opening, can require repayment of the $25. 
I 
I Offer ends12·31·97 and may be withdrawn sooner without notice. 
L---------------------------------------------------------­



LOCATIONS: Douglas Road -239-6611 or 800-522-6611 

A

·--~~----------------.. ........---~ ---------­
-

Friday, November 21, 1997 The Observer • SPORTS page 27 
• WOMEI'.J' S BASKETBALL 
Haney, Hills sign with Irish 

Special to The Observer 
Erieka Haney, a 6-foot-1 for­ward from Toledo, Ohio, has signed a national letter of intent to attend the University of Notre Damn as a member of the elass of 2002. 
Haney is the second signee for Irish women's basketball coach MuiTet McGraw during the early signing period. Notre Dame also signed 5-foot-8 guard Sherisha Hills from Tampa, Fla. 
Hated 49th on Blue Star Basketball's list of the top 60 seniors in 1997-98, Hanny led Toledo Catholic Central in scor­
will be available in the 
Office of Student Affairs 
· 202 Hurley Building 
beginning 
Monday, November 24, 1997 
through 
Friday, January 16, 1998 
ing, rebounding and blocks during her junior year. Haney earned first-team all-state, all­city and all-district honors last year, and was named the Associated Press district seven player of the year. 
A four-year starter and three­year captain at Toledo Central Catholic, Haney led her squad to a 23-3 campaign in 1996-97, leading the team to the Toledo City Athletic League champi­onship, and district and sec­tional crowns. 
A member of the Ohio Heat AAU team, Haney paced the team to a ninth-place finish at the nationals and second place in the state tournament this summer, while earning AAU all-America honors. 
"Ericka is the type of player we needed in the post," said McGraw. "She's very versatile and can play either the three or four positions on the floor." Ericka is an athletic player with good post moves and strong defensive skills, McGraw said. 
"Ericka and Sherisha fill a lot of needs for us. They are both extremely talented players; we'll be a much more athletic team with them in the line-up. They were our first two choic­es, so we're pleased they will· both be part of our program." 
Women's Volleyball Bracket 
Nov. 22-23, 1997 
1Notre Dame 8BYE 
5Pittsbu 
3UConn (8-3) 
6wvu (5-6) 
2Villanova (9-2) 7BYE 
First Round Nov.22 (a.m.) 
Volleyball 
continued from page 32 
straight matches, three against Big East opponents. However, a four-game loss to Southwest Missouri State ended the streak, followed by a three­game defeat at the hands of the Irish, by the score of 15-5, 15-7, 15-9. 
Syracuse has one of the strongest blocking games in the conference with three play­ers averaging more than one solo block per game. Julie Nicholson and Desiree Hobbs are first and second on the Big East leaderboard in blocking, with 1.60 and 1.49 blocks, respectively. They also have one of the finest setters in the conference, senior Carrie Urton. Urton averages 11.61 assists per game, just ahead of Irish freshman Denise Boylan. 
Pittsburgh is another team that clinched a tournament berth in the final week of regu­lar season competition. Also 6-5 in conference play, the Panthers won the first two matches of the month against Providence and Boston College before losing their next three. In the midst of their slump, the Panthers lost to the Irish in four games by a score of 15-2, 15-13, 14-16, 15-5. 
Despite a misleading confer­ence record and overall lack of experience, the Panthers are also one of the strongest teams in the conference. In Big East matches this season, Pittsburgh ranks second in ser­vice aces, third in kills, and fifth in hitting percentage. 
"It's a real advantage for us to have played both teams ear­lier on in the season," head coach Debbie Brown said. "We know what worked for us against them, and we know ­what they did that worked well against us. I think specifically we need to work on our pass­ing and ball-handling. We need to play as consistently as we have for the entire season. Our offense and siding out is strong, and I think we'll improve as time goes on." 
The Irish have proved th\_lt they are more than ready to take on the challenge that either of these teams presents. For the past two seasons, the Irish have not lost once to a Big East opponent. This year is no different, as they rolled through the conference sched­ule while losing only two games to the opposition. Five of the six teams in this year's tournament bracket have lost to the Irish in three games, the ·­only exception being Pittsburgh. 
In the latter half of the sea­son, a change in Notre Dame's offensive strategy helped the ­team win its last eight matches and 15 of its last 16. All six of Notre Dame's losses have come at the hands of ranked oppo­nents, including current No. 4 Florida and No. 5 Wisconsin. The schedule gets no easier, and after the Big East tourna­ment the team will face sixth­ranked UC Santa Barbara and current No. 1 Long Beach State. 
The other first-round match tomorrow is between No. 3 seed Connecticut and No. 6 seed West Virginia. Later that day, the winner of the match will face Villanova, the only team other than Notre Dame to receive a bye in the first round. During the regular season, the Wildcats defeated both teams. eaeh in three games. 
"It think right now our focus is on playing well." Brown remarked. "I think we need to realize the level which we need to compete for the next couple of weeks. Right now, though, I'm confident that we're able to compete with the best teams in the nation." 

---------~ ~-----··---.......-~----------..........._...---· 
page 28 The Observer • CRAIG COUNSELL Friday, November 21, 1997 
Marlins take advantage of some 'Counselling' 
Former Irish star captained the last of his four years under head coach Jake 
comes up big in Kline in 1964, and then returned as an assistant to Kline after playing four years in the
199 7 World Series 

Minnesota Twins organization. By BETSY BAKER By age two, Counsell was Associate Sports Editor already strutting the Irish uni­
form as an honorary bat boy for 

Craig Counsell has some big the Notre Dame freshman team. shoes to fill if he wants to get When his dad got a job with into the Hall of Fame someday. the Milwaukee Brewers as their 
Luckily, his are already there. community relations director in 
Because the Notre Dame grad-1978, Craig then was surround­uate hit the tying RBI and scored ed by players like Paul Molitor, the winning run in Game 7 of the Robin Yount, and Jim Gatner. World Series to give the Florida There was no doubt that the Marlins a 3-2 victory, his spikes stage was set for Craig Counsell are now in the ,..,._.-.,.,.,----:---::--:-----:-:::~ to be a baseball Hall of ballplayer. But Fame in that didn't Cooperstown, exactly guar-
N.Y. antee him an 
And if he easy time sell-keeps perform-ing his story. ing the way he Counsell, who did in Game 7, was not heavi­he might not ly recruited out be too far of Whitefish behind them. Bay Iligh 
Counsell's S c h o o l story is the (Whitefish Bay, kind that is Wis.) due to his made into a size, has con-movie. In fact, don't be sur-tinually had to convince the prised if it someday it is. world what kind of ballplayer he Although it has been nearly a can be. month since that fateful October Former Notre Dame head night, people are still talking coach Pat Murphy (1988-94) was about the "baby-faced assassin" the first of the many skeptics of the Cleveland Indians, as one Counsell had to face. Florida reporter referred to him, "When we went to talk to or the kid who came out of Coach Murphy, he was hesitant nowhere to steal the Series for about recruiting Craig because the Marlins. he thought he was too small, and 
The screenplay goes far kind of had to figure out a nice beyond the 1997 Series, howev-way of saying, 'I don't want to er. have to cut your son,"' John 
From Aug. 21, 1970, the day Counsell, who knew Murphy Counsell was born, he was through his connection with the meant to be a baseball player. Irish, said. "I was just kind of Born in South Bend and baptized laughing inside and thought, 'lie in the Basilica of the Sacred doesn't know how good Craig is.' Heart on Notre Dame's campus, Craig is the kind of person that Counsell was immediately thrust when people say you can't, that not only into baseball, but Notre becomes his challenge to prove Dame baseball. His father, John, them wrong." 

The elder 
Counsell is one 
person who never 
needed to be con­
vinced of his son's 
ability, and within 
a very short period 
of time, neither did 
Murphy. 
"I've never known a player that has improved so much in four years, Murphy said of Craig going into his senior year. "He's going to be very valuable to some pro team -he's invaluable to us." 
"Craig grows on you," John said of his son. "He began in left field at Notre Dame and the coaches were happy with the progress he made, so they tried him at third base. His career at Notre Dame was just like his life. lie added to each year, and improved each year." 
By the time Counsell was fin­ished with the Irish, he had cap­tained the 1992 team, and he was and is still the all-time career leader in games played and games started for the Irish. 
The two most impressive sta­tistics Counsell left with the Irish, however. and the two that arc most indicative of the kind of player he is, are that he is the all-time leader in bases on balls and second in total sacrifices. 
"Craig is not flashy," John said. "He does what is necessary to bn successful himself, but more importantly, he does what is nec­essary to help his team." 
Counsell sums up his time at Notre Dame not as what playing baseball there did to enhance his career; instead, he says it is what it did to enhance him as a pnr­son. 
"I think more than anything, it was a great place to go to school and to play sports," Counsell commented. "I feel like I really grew up thorn. Coach Murphy had a big impact on my life. lie taught me about more than just baseball. Also. my best friends are still from ther11." 
His time with the Irish served as a catalyst for what Counsell planned to do his whole life ­play professional baseball. 
"That's all I ever wanted to do," Counsell answered when asked if he thought when he was at Notre Dame that he would bn drafted when he left. "Obviously, I was there to go to school, but all I've ever wanted to do is play baseball. That was my goal when I went to Notre Dame ­after I went to school -to play professional baseball." 
Counsell graduated from Notre Dame with a dngree in account­ing, that at this rate, he may never need. 
The adversity for Counsell did not end at the college leveL After being drafted by the 

C
raig Counsell, left, is interviewed following Game 7 of the World Series in which the Marlins beat the Indians four games to three. 
Right, Craig's father, John Counsell, a former assistant coach at Notre Dame, joins his son and the Marlins agent who was responsible for signing Craig in a post-game celebration. 
Above left, although Counsell in ragged out here in Game 5 of the World Series, he scored the winning run of Game 7. 
Photos courtesy of Tom Btaska and KRT 
Colorado Rockies in the 11th with the Marlins. and the rest is round of the free-agent draft on history. June 1, 1992, his convincing After battling for the position skills were once again called at second base, Counsell finally upon. Counsell suffered a bro-became the bonafied starter, and ken foot and a severely broken what he has done from there is nose in 1992 that hampered his now part of the record books. first shot at the majors. After Before his World Series perfor­leading the California League mance, Counsell batted .400 in shortstops with 621 total the Division Series, and .429 in chances in 1993, he was again the Championship Series against back on the bench with another the Atlanta Braves. And it is no foot injury in 1994, totaling three surprise how he made history in times on the disabled list Game 7 -in the bottom of the throughout the summer. ninth with the Marlins trailing 2­
But like he always had before, 1, Counsell hit a sacrifice fly to Counsell fought back for the '95 score Moises Alou and send the season, leading the Pacific Coast game into extra innings. lie League shortstops with 598 total then got a base hit in the 11th, chances and 86 double plays, and Tony Fernandez brought until a broken leg put him back him home as the winning run of on the DL for the 1996 season. the 1997 World Series. 
Despite the fact that the So the remaining question is: injuries began to frustrate the where does Craig Counsell go then 26-year-old, he never lost from here? At 27 years old, he faith in himself or his ability to has gone from a kid who, during make it in the "show." post-season play, had to show 
"Injuries were really frustrat-identification to an usher in ing-out of the five years I order to get into Pro Player played in the minor leagues, I Stadium because the usher probably missed two and a half thought he was a fan hanging to injuries," Counsell said. "But I around for autographs, to one of never thought about quitting or the heroes of the World Series. giving up, though, because I still It makes one wonder whether it wanted to play baseball. It is can get mueh better than that. what I feel like I am good at and "I think what it does when you it is what I've always wanted to -win a World Series as a baseball do. So there was never a player is that you are experienc­thought of giving up." ing the ultimate of your profes-
Howcvcr, after nearly three sion," Counsell said. "You real­years of injuries, the Rockies ize you might never experience gave Counsell up to the Florida that again, and you realize you Marlins. As it turns out, the are lucky to have had the chance Florida Marlins had been int!~r-to experience it at all. So I think ested in Counsell throughout his in that sense, it has changnd me minor Ieagun career, but it was because I've been to the top of not until the final injury that the the mountain. It has changed Hackies began considering giving the memories of my life, and I him up in a trade. think it will change how I 
"The Marlins tried to trade for approach baseball in the future. Craig for three years,': John but I'm still going to keep going Counsell said. "Two years later, out to the ballpark every day." the Rockies began giving up End of story'? Don't bet on it. because of injury, and the Look for the sequel. Marlins got their way." 
A midseason trade for pitcher Amy Blaska contributed to this Mark Hutton landed Counsell report. 


-
... 
Friday, November 21, 1997 The Observer· SPORTS page 29 
• WOMEN'S SOCCER 
Best foot forward, soft-spoken Streiffer leads Irish 
By KATHLEEN LOPEZ 
Assistant Sports Editor 
North Carolina goalkeeper Gretchen Overgaard may vaguely recall her first encounter with Notre Dame forward Jenny Strciffer. Streiffer knocked Overgaard unconscious while scor­ing the winning goal against the Tar Heels during last year's regu­lar seQ.son game. 
The soft-spoken Streiffer soon found herself thrust into the spot­light. Prior to last year's North Carolina game, not many people knew who she was. Then when she knocked in both goals in the 2­1 overtime win to dethrone top­ranked North Carolina, she exploded onto the women's soccer scene and was named College Soccer Weekly's favorite player to watch for the 1996 season. 
After the game, Petrucelli said, "She really dictated the pace of the game by holding the ball, by play­making, and creating chances." 
Petrucelli found himself the jeal­ous envy of numerous head coach­es across the country, not only for handing North Carolina the loss, but for finding such a hidden tal­ent. Streiffer went relatively unno­ticed by numerous collegiate coaches. She only looked at Stanford, Duke, and Virginia. Her trip to Notre Dame's campus sold her on the University and the women's soccer program. 
"I really liked the team," Streiffer said. "Their playing style was what I was looking for. The coach was great and that is what I liked. Also he said that the team's goal was always to win a national championship and that was really appealing." 
At the Duke adidas Women's Soccer Classic, she was named MVP for her two-goal performance against North Carolina and her single-goal contribution in the 2-0 win over the Duke Blue Devils. 
Just a couple weeks later, Streiffer found herself in the midst of another tight game against the Broncos of Santa Clara. The top­ranked Irish fell to Santa Clara, 3­
1. Despite the losing effort. Streiffer (ound herself on the Santa Clara Nike Classic all-tournament. 
Being named to two all-tourna­ment teams was just a miniscule amount of the awards to come during the regular season and into the post-season. 
Only two freshman in the coun­try earned NSCAA all-American honors: she was one of them. Along with numerous teammates, Streiffer found herself on the all­Big East team. She was named the Big East rookie of the year. 
Streiffer and Co. realize that they hit their stride a little too early last season. She promises this year is different. In the Big East tourna­ment finals, theteam played its best game yet against Connecticut, winning 6-1. 
"It was great playing Connecticut," Streiffer remarked about the season. "It was a fun game for me and the team. We just played so well and that was what was so great." 
Streiffer has remained somewhat of a silent leader this season. Strained ligaments have hampered her effectiveness this year. 
"We really don't know what is wrong with them," Streiffer said. "I was really unlucky because I strained some ligament in both feet at about the same time. It is frustrating because it is such a nagging injury." 
After a stretch of quiet playing, Streiffer bounced back in a game against Georgetown. She was named Big East offensive player of the week with her four-goal per­formance against the Hoyas. 
After the win, Petrucelli said, "She struck a couple hard balls which she hasn't been able to do in the pass." 
Currently she is on pace to break or tie her point total from last year, which incidentally ranked second on the team behind all­
··American Cindy Daws. Last year, she ranked seventh in the nation with 22 goals and 22 assists. Thus far in the season, she has 19 goals and 18 assists and leads the team with 56 points. "She is really focused and intense on the field," senior cap­tain Kate Sobrero said. During the tournament play, Streiffer feels that there are numerous aspects of her game which could still use some sharp­ening. "As the games get harder, I need to put it away more," Streiffer said. "I need to focus on my con­centration and make sure that I am prepared and won't let the slightest opportunity slip away." During her high school career in Baton Rouge, she was a four-year letterwinner, four-time all-state selection, and three-time state MVP. She set high school records with 90 goals and 69 assists at the midfield position. Also, Streiffer was name Parade and Umbra all­Americans. Prior to her arrival at the University, she was an alternate for the U.S. Olympic team and was invited to play on the U.S. victory tour. "We knew that she was an alter­nate on the Olympic team coming in but we were just impressed by her conditioning and skills," Sobrero said. Prior to the beginning of the tournament, Streiffer had one wish and that was to play Nebraska. The Cornhuskers defeated the Irish during the spring and Streiffer is thirsty for revenge. "We lost to them in the spring and that really stunk," she said. "They were really intense and physical. It was a tough loss and a frustrating game." Streiffer believes that the team is ready more than ever, and with her pacing the pack, there is no stopping this determined team from the ultimate goal, the nation­al title. 

The Notre Dame Council on International Business Development Proudly presents... 
Kevin McCarthy 
• 
Kevin McCarthy is an entrepreneur who started an internet based company called Atipa 

• 
Check out Atipa's website at www.Aptipa.com 


Come find out the secrets to this 22 year old's MILLION DOLLAR success! 
Friday, November 21st, 1997 4:45pm 158 COBA 

-
• 


sec a a_z_s 

B-Ball 
continued from page 32 
That Irish are coming off an impressive season opener in which they defeated The Citadel by 19 points. MacLeod got tremendous efforts from Wyche, Ingelsby, and Hickey, who all scored in double figures, while superstar Pat Garrity could not quite find his shooting touch. 
Unfortunately for Garrity, the Bradley Center is not where one goes to find his stroke. Marquette is always known for its tremendous defense, and last year was no different. 
The Eagles ranked seventh nationally in scoring defense, yielding just 57.8 points per con­test. They were also tops in the land for the third time in the last five years in opponents' field­goal percentage, just 36.2 per­cent, which ranks as the second best ever. 
Against The Citadel, Notre Dame had a tremendous shoot­ing effort, including nine of 12 from the three-point line. So, the team will try to remain patient tonight. 
"We're just going to try to play smart and play together and hopefully get some open looks," Ingelsby said. "We'll try not to force things and probably try to pound it into Pat and Phil and try to get on the foul line early to get some easy baskets." 
Although the Irish were deadly from the perimeter Monday night the team will still look to its bread and butter; go inside to last year's Big East player of the year. 
"Pat's our best player, so hopefully we can get some easy baskets down there early and take the crowd out of it," Ingelsby explained. "But they have some good big men but that's where our strength is so we're going to pound it in there early and see what happens." 
After getting off on the right foot Monday night, the Irish are hoping they can build on their momentum in the Bradley Center. 
"Hopefully we can keep on winning, and going into Indiana undefeated, you never know what could happen there," Ingelsby said. "If we can win tonight we'll be in pretty good shape; but it's going to be a real­ly tough game." 
Which is exactly what makes it a pivotal game for the entire season. 

HEY! ... Have you heard? Mail Boxes Etc. has 
5¢ COPIES 
MBE can also ship your Overnight & 2nd Day Air letter, UPS packages, take passport photos, fax, and much more. 
MAIL BOXES ETC~ 
• 
Corner of S.R. 23 & Ironwood in the Martin's Plaza Phone(219)277-6245 Fax(219)27~7679 Open 9am-7pm, M-F lOam-Spm, Saturday 
z a  a  gs  a  a  2  
The Observer· SPORTS  Friday, November 21, 1997  
• WOMEN's BASKETBALL  

Irish to face ranked Blue Devils 
ByJOECAVATO 
Assistant Sports Editor 
The early stretch of the college basketball sea­son provides opportunities for learning. With that in mind, women's basketball coach Muffet McGraw will have her squad learning in the most ideal way-by playing the best. 
The next six opponents for the Irish are teams that are either ranked or are receiving votes in the polls. 
"We've got a very tough road ahead of us," McGraw said, "and not only that, to have Rutgers and Connecticut. who are the two teams in the Big East to win their division, is really a difficult schedule." 
The Duke Blue Devils, ranked 14th and 16th in the polls, will host the Irish this Saturday in the first of four road games for a young Notre Dame team. 
"Going on the road for the first time with a young team, we're going to learn a lot," M~Graw observed. "Just getting used to everything that goes along with a road trip is going to be a little bit different for them." 
Heading into North Carolina to challenge the Blue Devils will not be an easy task, because Duke's starting lineup is loaded with experience. 
"They've got three starters back from last year and their other two starters [are transferrs]," McGraw explained. "So they are a very, very experienced team. 
McGraw, at the opposite end of the spectrum with only one returning starter, will look to her co-captains, senior Mollie Peirick and junior Sheila McMillen, to keep her squad poised and within their game. 
"We're really "going to have to rely on Mollie and Sheila, once again, "McGraw explained, "to just maintain that poise and leadership they've been showing us." 
The back court duo certainly demonstrated their leadership capabilities in Tuesday night's season opening victory over Butler. McMillen lead the team in scoring with 17 points and came up with the big basket down the stretch. Peiriek 
The Observer/John Da1ly Julie Henderson leads a young Notre Dame squad on a difficult road trip. 
handed out eight assists and also scored in dou­
ble figures while consistently being able to come up with the big play. 
When looking for a weakness in the Blue 
Devils' game, one has difficulty. Duke can do it 
all. "They've really got an all-around game," 
McGraw explained. "They have great outside 
shooters, they handle the ball real well and they 
have a strong inside game." Notre Dame will look for its defense, which held 
Butler to 24 percent shooting in the first half, to 

slow the Duke attack. The three-guard look of the 
Irish gives McGraw a smaller and quicker line-up 
that can pressure the ball handlers. 
"Conte'n}porary Hair Styles 7Days A Week" 

•10:20 
MAN WHO KNEW TOO (PG) 
3:20, 5:35, 7:50, 10:25 
RAINMAKER (R)* DTS 2:00, 8:00 LITTLE MERMAID (G)* 1:20, 5:10, 7:00. 8:55 RAINMAKER (R)* DTS 1:00, 4:05, 10:15 
ORTAL COMBAT 2 (PG-13)* 
:30, 3:40, 5:50, 8:05, 10:30 
DEVIL'S ADVOCATE (R) DTS 12:45, 3:50, 7:50, 10:05 RED CORNER (R) 7:05, 9:45 IN AND OUT (PG-13) 1:15,3:30, I KNOW WHAT YOU DID LA (R) 
12:55, 3:05, 5:20, 7:35, 9:50 
Times valid through next Thursday *No passes 


pa ~~~.~•_p-.--.uu-..lW~.IP~-.-~-·~-~·,...~..............................................................................~~..................~~._~..., 
Friday, November 21, 1997 
The Observer • TODAY page 31 
MEN ABOUT CAMPUS 
DAN SULLIVAN 
YOUR HOROSCOPE 
Aries: Today you are the one who dictates the terms of a romance. Think in terms of film and video rather than photos and paintings. You are in your element at a party, although the smaller it is, the better. 
Taurus: The voices of parents and teac-hers well up from your subcon­scious, ruining all the. fun. A sudden flash of logic

M01HER GOOSE & GRIMM 



CATBERT: EVIL 1·\.R. DIRECTOR. 
~UT WE EY-I'E.CT 
0

TI-lE COf'o\I'ANY l-IAS NO u E TOTAL LOYALTY 
I""I'LIE.O 'CONTRACT 
TO KEEP YOU EMPLOYED, WALLY. 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 30 Comedian Howard
1 It works like a charm 
31 Tercel 37 An angry9 Undertone speaker might

15 Former Big make it Apple mayor 
38Two-time 16 Drill bit? 
Masters champ 17 Saskatchewan 39 Palindromist's city preposition 18ltem of biblical 40 Old Dodge attire 41 Bank accrual: 19 Touchdown 
Abbr. point?: Abbr. 42 More than a miss
20 Porgy and bass 44 Marshlands
22 Foreign V.IP 
45 Baltimore team.

23 Recreation in sportspeakcenter staple 47 Large copier
26 Loudness unit 
48 Hirsch of "Taxi" 27 Ariz. neighbor 
49 Actress Meyers 28 Music sheet so Polar wear abbr. 
52 Christopher 29 Seal Marlowe drama 
'5 .; OUT OF YOU. 
4J 
E 
"0 
!!
·c: 
:I 

57 Game keeper? 58 Western Sahara, once 59 They're great on Tri pie Letter Scores 60 Drummer 
DOWN 

1 Skye cap 2 Blood letters 3 Constellation 
near Hydra 4 "Ghosts" writer 5 Mind 6 Goya depiction 7 Health-care 
lobbygrp. 8 St. John's people 9 Billiard stroke 101945 Roy Rogers-Dale Evans western 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 11 Half a cartoon 
duo 
L o G E I


121943 Greer 29 Sp. title 
Garson title role JO Trestletree site13 Lexicographer's 32 Filer
concern 14 "Chill!" 
33 Kotter of "Welcome Back,21 Calculator Kotter"

display 34 Ending with
23 See 24-Down song24 With 23-Down, 35 Town NE of
"Zorba the Greek" actress 
Bangor 

36 Coveys overseas 42 Two-mile-high 26 Out of harm's capital way 
25 "Seeya!" 
43 Not counting, 27 ·a & A" star with"from" 
MIKE PETERS may keep you from making a dumb mistake. Cut your losses and quit the game early. 
Gemini: You provide an invaluable service to some­one in need today. You are late for a meeting, but have no trouble under­standing what you missed. If you stop trying to do all the work, a friend or part­ner is willing to meet you halfway. 
Cancer: Generosity feels incredibly noble today. You let others have their way 
< 

0 I REALLY, R.EALl'l' WI51-\ 
because you love them, not .i You WOULON'T 00 'YOUR 
because you agree. Take a break from your responsi­

! FA.CE-5TRETCHING 
bilities and go have a little
"' 

~ EXERCISES I-IERE 
fun. . EVERY MORNING/ 
, 
IL 
Leo: Today you manage
" 
to dance on the edge while making it look as if you are striding purposefully along. Bad weather, bad health, and bad credit only happen to other people. Teach someone else how to be perfect before you· forget again. 
Virgo: Events wash over you too fast for you to maintain the illusion of control. Live in the moment, even if it's only for a moment. Pretend to enjoy yourself, and you 

44 They may be 53 Cinco de Mayo, blown in boxes e.g. 
45 Calling 54 Monk's title 
46 Dad's rival 
55"t;;a-" 48 Nephrite (French 49 In trouble, in the revolutionary Army song) 
51 --Kan 56 Charged bit 
Answers to any three clues in this puzzle 
are available by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420-5656 (75¢ per minute). 
Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
may find that you really are. 
Libra: You know exactly what needs to be done today, and everyone applauds you for getting out and doing· it. Your partner learns something new about who you are. A good mood is contagious among friends. 
Scorpio: You may not be able to talk your way out of anything today. The best and most obvious solutions are rejected by parties in control. Risk-taking is not favored. Caution wins the day. 
Sagittarius: Ease up on the self discipline and let your hair down. There's no law against having some fun. As long as you're sin­cere, people will be Jvippy to give you a lot of slack today. 
Capricorn: Sometimes, as the lone voice of reason, it's best to just be quiet for awhile. Creative approach­es may not be appreciated today. Take comfort in the fact that at least you did your best. 
Aquarius: In the eco­nomics of love and friend­ship, if you give a little, you get a lot. Waiting for some­thing to happen can be the biggest waste of time. Learn a lesson or two from following your heart today. 
Pisces: Today Pisces looks and feels like a bot­tom feeder. Reverse your downward spiral and swim up to where the sunlight penetrates the surface. You're the one who has the final say about the shape and color of your world. 
• 
..... 
-
-

....~~~~....................................~......................~........................~............~·--.c~;-.~o-.=w~·~-------~+*~.~..-AWCQ czaq 
SPORTS Weekend 
page 32 Friday, November 21, 1997 

H·o·~
. 'YY 

Notre Dame takes on Nebraska at home in second round play 
By ALLISON KRILLA Sports Writer 

A string of upsets plagued some of the top women's soccer teams in last \\~ekend's first round NCAA tourna­ment action. Fifth-seeded Duke, sev­enth-seeded Portland and eighth­seeded Maryland dropped close con­tests to several scrappy underdogs. 
But Notre Dame (21-0-1) handily advanced to the Sweet Sixteen with a 7-1 victory, dominating Cincinnati after giving up an early goal. Now the Irish are hungry for a national championship. 
"It could be an interesting run," said Holly Manthei, who leads the team and 

~~~~~~s (2d~
We ve seen 
a lot of 
· · teams 
, upset, 
.;. which
1i us t 
.. '.. makes 
a

-1 ~ore 
·~ mter­f est­~·. i n g tour­
-
in 

an at­
The Observer/Joe Stark Sophomore Jenny Streiffer leads the Irish in scoring and hopes to help the team topple Nebraska in the second round of the NCAA tournament on Sunday. 

onship game. In the first round of the NCAAs, the Cornhuskers downed Michigan 5-1. 
This will be the first meeting between Notre Dame and Nebraska. In 1997, the teams faced two com­mon opponents -Duke and Michigan. Both teams defeated Duke 5-0. and Notre Dame downed Michigan 5-0 on Oct. 26. 
Leading the way for Nebraska is junior striker Kim Engesser, who owns Nebraska single-season records for points and goals. Against the Wolverines. the transfer from Portland recorded her third hat trick of the season, her team-leading 26th goal and 55th point. 
On Sunday, the Cornhuskers will have their hands full with the sec­ond-ranked Irish. Notre Dame has won 15 straight games, outscoring the opposition 120-7. Goalie LaKeysia Beene anchors the defense with the nation's lowest goals against average (0.32). Defenders Kate Sobrero, Kelly Lindsay and Jen Grubb have held opponents to 1.91 shots per game. 
Oll'ensively, the Irish have pounded opposing goalkeepers, averaging 
15.77 shots per game. Sophomore Jenny Streiffer leads the team in scoring with 56 points in 21 games, and freshmen Meotis Erikson and Anne Makinen pace the squad with 20 goals apiece. 
"This team has a lot of young play­ers that have really stepped into big roles for us," said Manthei. "They are not naive players. and they have stepped up when it counts." 
Notre Dame also has the home field advantage on its side. In the friendly confines of Alumni Field, the Irish have compiled a 7-0 record in NCAA tournament play. All-time, the Irish are 77-5-1 at Alumni Field, and 54-1-1 in their last 56 games there. 
"I think our big thing is going to be attitude," said head coach Chris Petrucelli. "If we can continue to play with an attacking attitude, then we'll be okay." 
• MEN's BASKETBAll 
Young squad faces difficult road contest 
ByJOECAVATO Assistant Sports Editor 
Although the men's basketball season is barely out of the gates, tonight's contest could prove piv­otal for the entire season. 
The Irish will travel to Milwaukee tonight where they will take on the Marquette Golden Eagles for an early season battle. With Big East teams domi­nating the schedule, out-of-conference match-ups don't come around too often. 
Tonight's game and the Dec. 3 game at Indiana are by far the most difficult out-of-conference games for the Irish with teams like Drexel and Sam Houston State filling out the rest of the early season schedule. 
Although it sounds odd in November. when the post-season rolls around committees look at games like these and head coach John MacLeod would certainly likfl to have a win against either the Eagles or the Hoosiers to his team's credit. 
"This is definitely a huge game for us especially going into Marquette and playing them there," fmshman point guard Martin Ingelsby said. "This is a huge game for us in our season and which way we're going to go, and if we can we can get a win there it would be a huge turning point." 
The task will certainly not be an easy one. The Golden Eagles are coming off a 22-9 record and a trip to the Big Dance. They were ousted by Providence in the first round of the 1997 NCAA tournament. The Eagles already have a win over Wisconsin and return one of the better guards in the country in senior Aaron Hutchins. 
Last season, while running the Eagle's offense Hutchins averaged over 13 points and five assists per game. Hutchins is an all-around player who can knock down an open three and play pressure defense. The Notre Dame back court combination of Antoni Wyche and lngelsby will certainly have their hands full with Hutchins. 
"He plays the two gl\ard now, but I'm sure that during the game sometime I'll be guarding him," Ingelsby said. "But I'm going to go out there and just try to do my best. I know he's one of the best guards in the country and we got our game plan on what we're going to do against him." 
see B-BALL I page 30 
• VOllEYBAll 

Defending champs favored in Big East tourney 
By BILL HART 
Sporrs Writer 
When Notre Dame volleyball and the Big East tournament are used in the same sentence, one word usually comes to 

-
mind: dominance. This year is no exception, as the Irish are overwhelmingly favored to defend and capture their third consecutive Big East title. 
Because of the team's stellar 11-0 conferenee record. Notre Dame will have a bye in the first round of the tournament. held this year on the campus of Seton Hall. This means that Syracuse and Pittsburgh will battle it out on Saturday for a right to face the Irish in the semifinals. 

"I think that the tournament is really important to the sea­son," freshman Christi Girton remarked. "We're pretty confi­dent that we'll be able to domi­nate the field. Also, winning the tournament would improve our chances of getting into the NCAA tournament." 
Syracuse enters the tourna­ment with a 6-5 record, having gone 1-1 over last weekend. During the month of November, the Orangemen have gone 3-3, defeating Georgetown. Pittsburgh and Seton Hall, but falling to Villanova, West Virginia and Butgers. During one stretch in October, they won seven 
see VOLLEYBALL I page 27 


The Observer/Joe Stark 

Notre Dame gets set to defend its Big East conference championship with strong play at the net. 


--

vs. West Virginia, 
• 
Exclusive interview
Qj
Tomorrow, I :30 p.m. 

Men's Basketball 
with Craig Counsell,

at Marquette,
vs. Nebraska, 

Today, 7 p.m. 
former Irish baseball
November 23, I p.m. 
.--= ... 
Women's Swim at Arizona, 
star and World

Women's Basketball 
tiJ
Today, 10 a.m. 

at Duke, 
.e 
Series hero. 

Tomorrow, 7 p.m. 
Basketball at Kalamazoo, 
See page 28 
Today, 8 p.m. 

• 


