
Thursday, October 9, 1997 • Vol. XXXI No; 34 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Respect Life Week centers around prayer, knowledge 
By HEATHER MACKENZIE 
give both students and faculty a Assistant News Editor greater understanding of the importance of life. Students par­The oandles carried a message. ticipating are also volunteering at Last night, members of the the Crisis Pregnancy Center in ND/SMC Right to Life dub held a South Bend, where they work litany and prayer service as a part with outreach groups to educate of its ongoing Hespect Life Week. young women on abstinence and 
"As a club. we want to focus on fetal care. · thnw arHas: prayer, service, and The first talk was held Tuesday education," said Samantha by Father Mark Poorman and Snyder. president of the Hight to focused on the euthanasia con­Life club. "We are trying to incor­troversy, including reflection and porate all these areas into our discussion of the ethics behind activities." that issue. 
Respect Life Week is a series of Tomorrow night, South Bend prayer services and talks center­resident Tammy Goeke will pre­ing around the value of human sent a testimonial on her decision life. to carry out her pregnancy after 
"We arc committed to the con­she was diagnosed with cancer. sistent ethic of life," explained On Sunday, Respect Life Week Snyder. "We believe in the sanctity will conclude with Law School of human life fr.om conception professor Charles Rice's discus­until natural dHath." sion on capital punishment. All 
Snyder noted that all of this talks are held at 8 p.m. in the week's activities are dHsigned to Students gathered last night with Father Jim Lies, rector of Zahm Hall, to pray and discuss the value of life. Walsh Hall chapel. 
'W.e believe in the sanctity ofall human life, from ___CO_nception to natural death.' . -Samantha Snyder 
And the band played on... 
L
ast night, 
members of 
thl' Notre Dame Marching Band prepared to travel to the University of Pittsburgh for an away performance. The students will travel via bus and stay in Pittsburgh overnight. 

• Sn.mENT SENATE 
The Observer/Jeff Hsu A student dressed as a shower curtain discussed important issues with Matt Griffin (center) and Mary Gillard (left). 

Residence life issues still dominate Student Senate 
By TIM LOGAN 
News Writer 
The Student Senate continued discus­sion of numerous residence life issues at yesterday's meeting. 
Last week, the Residence Life Committee reported progress on dining times, laundry in men's dorms, and shuttle operation from distant parking lots. Last night, however, there was more waiting for further action to be taken by the University, and more wait­ing for resolutions to be finalized by senate committees. 
"We're still working on the laundry issue," said Keenan senator Matt Mamak, a member of the Residence Life Committee. "[Food Services vending directorJ Dean Winter says his office is 
willing to install machines in halls 
where there are adequate facilities." 
However. the majority of the dorms 
which lack laundry services do not have 
adequate facilities. Mamak is preparing 
a resolution to present in time for the 
Campus Life Council meeting on Nov. 3. 
It may be possible to install laundry facilities in those dorms which lack .them, but in most cases that would 
result in a reduction of social space. 
Sorin Hall senator Kevin Grugan 
noted that his dorm turned down laun­
dry facilities two years ago when it 
learned that the facilities would take up 
social space. 
Ultimately, Morrissey seriator Matt 
Szabo observed, "We will have to weigh 
see SENATE I page 4 

Faculty, students rally to save SMC London Program 
By COLLEEN McCARTHY 
News Wrirer 
After an announcement at the begin­ning of the school year that the 24­year-old Saint Mary's College London Summer Program was being canceled due to 11nancial difficulties, faculty and students came together in an outpour­ing of support for the program that led the administration to reconsider its decision. sending the program into its 25th year for the summer of 1998. 
Saint Mary's professors Don Balka and Douglas Tyler, were named the new co-directors of the program by the College. 
"Once faculty and students found out that the program had been ended, there was an uproar," Balka said, dis­
cussing how the resurrection of the program came about. 
The efforts of the faculty and stu­dents to make sure the program con­tinued included writing letters and talking to Dorothy Feigl, vice president and dean of faculty at Saint Mary's College, as well as directly to College President Marilou Eldred. 
Balka held discussions with Feigl and then began the process of preparing a budget for the program from scratch. Creating the new budget was a difficult task, according to Balka. because the program uses what he called "a sizable amount of money." 
Balka also noted the considerable cooperation of Feigl in getting the pro-
see LONDON I page 4 
page 2 
• lt>!SIOE COlUMN 


Live in the no-w 
I love stress. 
I thrive on it. 
I don't feel right unless I'm running myself ragged over something, and do my best quality work under severe degrees of stress. 
Guess what? It's not so bad. I need stress 


like some people need Saint Mary's Accent Editor 
caffeine or nicotine. My 
stress develops out of 
necessity. I cannot produce exceptional 
results before the last minute. So, I make 
time for diverting activities, and make up for 
my lack of academic focus with last-minute 
stressing out. In other words, I procrasti­
nate. 
Am I slipping into the apathetic senior con­
dition too soon? I'm not sure. Maybe it's as 
simple as the glorious weather, or maybe it's 
something in the ethanol-ridden air that 
gives me a new-found pride in my procrasti­
nation tactics which lead me to my needed 
stress. 
I am most likely prompted by the march 
with my fellow seniors at Dr. Eldred's inau­
guration on Monday. There, decked out in my 
cap and gown, in the midst of pomp and cer­
emony, I faced the harsh reality that my time 
here is drawing to a close. Now, I can suc­
cessfully delay my duties with an even more 
calmly mellow demeanor. 
It is a fact midterms are descending upon 
the community. I wouldn't be doing my duty 
to fellow students ifl didn't share my per­
spective to help you to enjoy more. Anybody 
can be very productive and still make time 
for leisurely activities. I can show you how. 
Chill. Whatever it is, it's not so important 
you can't take an hour out and just chill. 
It's only a test. One little measly test. If you 
do terribly on it, you can study hard for the 
next one and still average out OK with a B. 
College is a mere four years. You don't 
want to look back on the time you spent here 
and remember little more than sitting in a 
library carrel. 
Carpe Diem. Someday, you'll be too old to 
dance on that table, so you might as well do 
it now. 
Meijer is open 24 hours. A wonderland of 
diverting activity waits for you all hours of 
the night. 
Sure, you want to make a fast food run. 
This gets back to the whole carpe diem thing. 
Your body won't always be able to handle 
mass quantities of Whoppers, so eat them 
now. 
It's only going to be nice outside for a few 
more days. Soon, the real South Bend weath­
er will arrive, and you won"t be able to enjoy 
the outdoors. 
You'll finish the work later. Now, you've 
got to spend time discussing with your 
friends just what he/she meant by that. 
Oprah's on. She's got some good stuff to 
watch that just may help you in the real 
world someday. Really. 
Stay up late to write it, and sleep in the 
next day. That's why you scheduled your 
first class to begin at 11. 
By waiting until the last minute, you get the 
prime time in the computer labs. Nobody 
else uses them in the wee wee hours of the 
morning. 
I don't suggest you chuck it all to go have 
boundless fun with no sense of accountability 
or responsibility. I merely say it is possible to 
make time for fun, and the stress which 
inevitably follows can be your friend. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 

• Tnotw's STAFF  
News  Graphics  
Heather MacKenzie  Jon King  
Michelle Krupa  Production  
Laura Petelle  Heather MacKenzie  
Sports  Laura Petelle  
Anthony Bianco  Lab Tech  
Viewpoint  Kevin Dalum  
Brandon Williams  
Accent  
Emmett Malloy  
Thursday 73 52 Friday 
75 54 Saturday 79 59 Sunday 82 62 Monday~ "'b 75 53 


The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published M~nday through Friday except during exam and vacarion periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproducrion rights are reserved. 

The Observer· INSIDE Thursday, October 9, 1997 
• Wmu.o AT A GLANCE 
Study: Discrimination causes long-term health problems 
ANN ARBOH, Mich. For black Americans, ill health Hispanic population quiz may be a symptom Of discrimina-Test your knowledge of the festest·growlng minority in the U.S.: 
ti0 n. DWhat is the current size of the F,'l Which of these HispanicA new study says that name-U.S.Hispanicpoputation? lti.l countries has a larger 
population than the U.S.

calling, harassment, poor service a. 5 million b. 63 million c. 29 million HispaniC population? 
and other acts of racial prejudice 171 What share of U.S. a. Peru d. Chile t;:l Hispanics live in Calif., b. Argentina e. Colombia
take a toll on African:Americans' 
Texas, N.Y., Fla. and IlL? 

e. Spain I. Mexico physical and mental health. a. 45% b. 74% c. 62% 
r.1 The median age ofResearchers from the il:ol Hispanics Is about I 0
r:'Jin 1995, Hispanic and Black years youn~er than

University of Michigan ques­1:.1 households had about the 
non~Hispan1c whites.
same incomes.

a. True b. False and 33 othe minorities in t\le 
a. True b. False 
Answers: 1. c. 29rniiHOn;t b, 74%; 3, True. median income for Hispatlle$; $22:.860. Blacks<

Detroit area on their health, 
$2:2,300; 4. b. Argenlina ~5 mll\ion, c. Spaln 40 milllon, e. Co\Qmbla 36 mlllion, l. Mexlco 95 ml!lion; U.S. has ftfth latg&st HispaniC pOpulatiOn In tM world; s. Tru&. 10f Hispanics.

jobs, education and experiences 
26.5 yr&., lor non-Hispanic whiles, 37.3 yrs.

with discrimination. SOURCES: census Bureau; ROdrlgu&i communiCations' Hispanic Market web Site: ~search by JUDY TAEIBLE.
"In essence, we found that 
Williams, a sociology professor at Michigan. 
Nearly twice as many blacks reported having "fair" or "poor" health as whites (23.3 percent vs. 12.8 percent) and fewer blacks than whites {48.4 percent vs. 59.8 percent) reported hav­ing "very good" or "excellent" health, according to the study. 
"We also found that their experience of discrimination was considerably greater than the experience of whites," Williams said .. 
The study found that more blacks than whites said they had 
after ...accounting for important 9129197 KRTinloo<aohocs/OUINTIAN dealt with major racist acts. But health factors such as income researchers said smaller acts of and education, African-Americans were still more likely discrimination, which are more common, could cause to report poorer health than whites," said David H. more long-term health problems. 
Clinton line-item vetoes military projects 
WASHINGTON 

Drawing the ire of lawmakers, rm......,--..,...,.=--., President'Clinton today used his new line-item veto powers to eliminate 38 projects worth $287 million from a military construction bill. "The use of the line-item veto saves taxpayers nearly $290 million and makes clear the old rules have in fact changed," Clinton declared in an Oval Office cere-'""""__.,_.....,____.J mony. The vetoed projects include a $19.9 million plan to build a new wharf for ship repair at Norfolk Naval Shipyard in Virginia. The potential for Clinton to issue more vetoes is great. Military construction is the first of 13 annual appropriations bills for the 1998 fiscal year. Five of those bills have been approved by Congress. Clinton must tread carefully in selecting veto items. He does not want to needlessly alienate lawmakers whose votes he will need in upcoming legislative battles over issues such as trade and Clinton's social programs. Noting he vetoed projects supported by Democrats and Hepublicans alike, Clinton said, "These are tough calls, involving real money and hard choices." Congress can override the line-item vetoes, but would require two­thirds majorities in both chambers to do so. Today marks only the second use of the line-item veto. 
Jury selection begins for Kaczynski 
SACHAMENTO, Calif. 

Hundreds of people reported to the state fairgrounds Monday to complete questionnaires, starting the long process of seating a jury for the trial of Unabomber sus­pect Theodore Kaczynski. About 600 people were sum­moned to a tent at Cal Expo to fill out the surveys, the first time in a federal case in Sacramento that prospec­tive jurors have gathered anywhere other than the downtown courthouse. The judge will then eliminate prospective jurors who say serving on the jury would pose a hardship. Then there will be a second round of surveys, followed by individual questioning to begin Nov. 
12. The judge has barred release of the questionnaire until the jury is selected. Jury selection could last three to six weeks, fotlowed by a trial of several months. Kaczynski, a 55-year-old former math professor turned backwoods hermit, is aecused of being the anti-technolo­gy terrorist known as the Unabomber. The 16 Unabom attacks between 1978 and 1995 killed three people and injured 23. Kaczynski is charged in California in four of the bombings. He could get the death penalty. 
• SOUTH BEND WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forecast AccuWeather• forecast for daytime conditions and high tcmpcmlure:-. 
H L 
;' )'···:.,?-· •. :·'' ,, .: : 
-!:)

q,Q,~98Q ~ u 
Showers T-storms Rain Flurries Snow Ice Sunny Pl. Cloudy Cloudy 
Iowa students contract E. coli 

PARKEHSBUHG, Iowa 
Food contaminated by E. coli bacteria made at least nine students ill at Aplington-Parkersburg High School, and health officials were trying to determine if cafeteria meals were involved. "It does not seem to be anything in the community, like a restaurant or a grocery store in the community. It does seem to be school-based," Kevin Teale, spokesman for the Iowa Department of Public Health, said today. Students began falling ill on Sept. 28. At least nine students were ill with symptoms consistent with E. coli contamination, and three were hospitalized for dehydration caused by diarrhea. All three have sub­sequently beeri released. Hesults of tests done on the ini­tial cases confirmed today that E. coli was present, Teale said. About 30 students were asked to fill out question­naires listing what they ate from Sept. 22 to Sept. 26. "There are literally dozens of items that could have caused that problem," Teale said. "Hight now we're still looking at the surveys, still trying to get an accurate count of how many kids got sick." lie said the contami­nation did not necessarily come from the school cafete­ria, and authorities were "checking to see if there was a pep rally or a party or something that the students attended." The high school cafeteria served meals today, but some items that might have been served Sept. 22-26 have been pulled from the menu. 
Armed men rob gun store in Indiana 
GHEENWOOD, Ind. 
Well-armed robbers stormed a suburban gun shop, shooting the clerk to death and making off so many high­powered weapons that they had to make repeated trips to a waiting van. "That keeps playing in my mind -that this could turn into something stupid and ugly," Police Chief Hobert Dine said today. "They didn't take any of the cheap stuff. They didn't take any of what you would call a Saturday night special." The robbery happened about 8 p.m. Saturday at Don's Guns in this suburb south of Indianapolis. The derk, Steven Stapleton, was wearing a sidearm and fired at least one shot at his assailants before he went down. police said. Police believe they were two robbers. They smashed glass cases and made off with semiautomatic handguns, assault rifles and 30-round ammunition magazines, police said. "I don't know that it's drug-related, whether it's a gan.g situation. All I know is that they got the best possible weapons they could obtain out of this store, and these weapons arc extremely dangerous in the wrong hands," Dine said. 
• NATIONAl WEATHER 
The AccuWeather®forecast for noon, Thursday, Oct. 9. 
40s Lines separate high temperature zones for the day. 


COLD WARM STATIONARY 

10 1997 AccuWeather. Inc 
Pressure 
H L 


HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T·STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT CLOUDY CLOUDY V!a AssOCJEl/ed Press 
Aflanta  85  59  Dallas  85  72  New Orleans 85  74  
Baltimore  85  55  Denver  57  44  New York  82  55  
Boston  68  49  Los Angele,s 86  61  Philadelphia 85  55  

Chicago 75 65 Miami 85 75 Phoenix 102 81 
Via Assoctated Press GraphicsNet 
Columbus 84 64 Minneapolis 65 55 St. Louis 76 66 
~-.--~~~.---~~..--~--~----------------------------------·------=----------~--~---------~-----------­
Thursday, October 9, 1997 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Huck examines effect of liturgy 
___ds study 
four separate areas of his­torical and theological research. 
One will examine the pres­ence and effects of Catholic institutions and leaders in the social and cultural life of the United States. 
The second area of study 
will focus on the changes in 
which a pastoral ministry and lay 
~rsity is involvement in the Catholic Church since the Second Vatican Council. . The third program will look for possible trends in nicity and devotional in the Church. ·· final topic! tt:J be exam· the role. of Women in Catholic and the influence have had on the as leaders in their 
The Cushwa Center also ~xpects to publish numerous articles for pastoral and ~cholarly periodicals and 
ral dissertations in his­
•····· .·· and theology doctoral prOgrams. Appleby expects the research project will b~gin a new generation of Catholic studies. ~grant is another com­....·.. nent of Notre Dame's 
.. $767 million "Generations" project, the largest fund· raising campaign instituted 
by a Catholic university and thl:l ninth-largest campaign @\V in progress in American academia. 
ofthe year. A ·th teachers 
He 
coordina­g and family subjects. 
umni Association Education 

By P. COLLEEN NUGENT 
Associate Saim Mary's News Editor 
Yesterday, students from Saint Mary's College gathered in the Stapleton Lounge to listen to Gabe lluck speak about what Catholics do on the Sabbath. 
For the past 25 years, he has been speaking to students at var­ious colleges and universities about the Bible. 
Although Iluck is the author of many internationally known books, he is also an editor, writer, and preacher about "the true meaning of Mass." 
The director of liturgy training publications in Chicago, Huck had been an influence to count­less numbers of men and women throughout the world. "The litur­gy is the work of the people," he said. 
Huck added that when people live out the word of God, it is during those times the true meaning of Eucharist comes to life. 
"The Eucharist we know today is not a noun, rather it is a verb," he said. "Liturgies represent a time when God and people come toge~her." 
Student Kristi Morris agreed: "I feel that by attending this lec­ture, I was able to grasp a better understanding of the Eucharist and its relationship to the people of the Church." 
Huck noted that one gets a true meaning of love, "with a full con­science and active participation with­in the Church." 
IIe claimed that many issues in the Church come to focus around the Eucharist, one's central part of life. 
"Are we to give up our heritage from the start?" asked Huck. 
l-Ie finished his statements by saying that the 

way of the liturgy is not always celebrated in a beneficial way. 
Huck explained that through­out the world, there are people that judge other people's mis­takes. 
"Renewing our liturgy," Huck stated, "in a culture of consumer audiences, is the hardest chal­lenge our audiences of our cul­ture face. 
"We should feel exhausted 
Holy Cross Associates Information Meetings 
Placements in: 
• 
Chile, South America • Portland, OR 

• 
Hayward (Bay Area), CA • Wilkes-Barre, PA 

• 
Colorado Springs, CO • Phoenix, AZ 

• 
Brockton (Boston Area), MA 



The Observer/Manuela Hernandez Gabe Huck, a nationally and internationally known author, spoke on liturgy at Saint Mary's yesterday. 
when leaving the Church," insist­ed Huck. "It is hard to do that in our society even though that should be our intention." 
In conclusion to his beliefs, he insisted that the Church desires for the faithful to come to cele­brate with a variety of nature when dealing with the liturgy. "We have to seek full and active participation in the Church," he said. 
Have 
s(Q) mme tlb.iuru.g 
t(Q) 
say? 
Use 
01bserver 
cclassifrieJ.so 
Be our guest time to sha 
is served in m cipal of an psychologist State Office o 


THURSDAY, OCTOBER 9m 4:00-5:00 P.M.-OR 6:30-7:30 P.M. CENTER FOR SOCIAL CONCERNS 

AmeriCorps Education Award scholarships available for Domestic Participants 
PO Box 668, Notre Dame IN 46556 Phone: 631-5521 FAX: 631-6813 E-mail: ND.HCASSOC.1®ND.EDU http://www.nd.edu:80/-hcassoc/ 

~ 
::t= 
at SAINT MARY'S 

Call for Reservations 
Monday -Friday 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. 
~~~----~­

London 
continued from page 1 
gram up and running again. 
"Dr. Feigl has worked very hard on the budget in trying to nail everything down for the College and to make sure everything is accounted for," Balka stated. "We spent two Friday after­noons in her office for many hours working out the details." 
Saint Mary's senior Bridget Sullivan, who participated in the program this past summer, was one of the many stu­dents who was driven to action when she heard the London Summer Program had been ·· · student response," ended. said Sullivan. 

"When I heard the Now that the pro­program was ques­gram is firmly re­tionable, I talked to established, Balka President Eldred is enthusiastic about it and shared '"''·11"''':o.:c.J about encouraging my experiences with d • students to partic­
her," Sullivan said. ent response. ipate. After speaking to "Students ·from Eldred, Sullivan said Bridget Sullivan Saint Mary's, Notre that she felt a Dame, Holy Cross,
senior, Saint Mary's College and other universi­

renewed sense of hope that the pro­ties are welcome gram would continue. and invited to participate," Balka stat­
"She wanted to hear about all of my ed. experiences and I was confident that The program will also be run in the they would keep the program, judging same way it has in the past, with visits from President Eldred's reaction to the to Ireland, Scotland, Paris and London. 
During the month-long program, stu­dents can take classes in history, psy­chology, sociology, international busi­ness and theater, a course not previ­ously offered. 
The first meeting for interested stu­dimts will take place at 7:30 p.m. in Carroll Auditorium at Saint Mary's College on Monday. 
"The program will go on at least for the near future. This has been an ongoing program and everyone is pleased because the opportunities are tremendous," said Balka. 
"My experiences through the London Program shaped my personali,ty and I grew so much," Sullivan agreed. "I would recommend it to anyone with the time, money or desire." 

Senate 
continued from page 1 
two concerns. One is that of the men who have to leave their dorm to do laundry. The other is that of the women who have men doing laundry in their dorms." 
In other Student Senate news: 
• 
"We're working on estab­lishing need for a campus shut­tle," said PE senator Julie Reising. The Residence Life Committee is in the process of developing a report on the pros and cons of having a shuttle run from South Quad dorms to the D2, D6 and ofT-campus parking lots. 

• 
Last week. progress was reported on the senate's propos­als to extend lunch and break­fast grab-and-go hours. At yes­terday's meeting, Szabo said he was "still waiting to hear back 



from [director of Food Services] David Prentowski" on those issues and on adjustments to the meal plan. 
• Katie Beirne, of the student government Department of Reports to the Board of Trustees, briefed the senate on the government's .upcoming report to the board. The report will focus on the development of a transportation pool to be run by the University, taking the responsibility of providing trans­portation for student groups from the Center for Social Concerns. 
The proposed program would have live main benefits. Beirne says that it would "free up more resources for the esc to put into its services, instead of van main­tenance." With additional vans, SafeRide could potentially oper­ate more nights each week. 
Additionally, under the pro­gram, there would be more vans available for use by clubs, pro­fessors and residence halls. 
Beirne cited a recent survey saying that over 40 percent of the University's clubs reported canceling off-campus trips because they could not get a esc van. 
Beirne acknowledged that cost would be the greatest impedi­ment to the program, since used vans cost $22,000. She says that the esc "feels overwhelmed by the responsibility of being the transportation hub of campus. That's a responsibility which they never asked for." 
"The proposal has received a really positive response," noted student body president Matt Griffin. 
• Junior Melissa Matheny will be serving as the senator from Lyons Hall for the rest of this semester. She is filling in for sophomore Maggie Meek, who has been away from school after suffering injuries from a car accident several weeks ago. 

LECTRICAL ENGINEERING • MECHANICAL ENGINEE.RING • MAT 
When something is too extreme for words, it's to the Nth degree. And that's the level of technology you'll experience at Raytheon. 
Raytheon has formed a new technological superpower-together, Raytheon Electronic Systems, Raytheon E-Systems and Raytheon Tl Systems are driving technology to the limit. And we're looking for engineers who want to push the envelope. Break new ground. Make their mark. 
At Raytheon you'll take technology-and your career-to the highest possible level. You'll take it to the Nth. We'll be visiting your campus soon. Contact your career placement office now to schedule an interview, or check out our website at www.rayjobs.com. 

WE'LL BE ON YOUR CAMPUS ON OCTOBER 10, 1997. CONTACT YOUR CAREER PLACEMENT OFFICE TODAY TO SCHEDULE AN INTERVIEW. 



Raylheon

Internet: www.rayjobs.com • E-mail: resume@rayjobs.com 
U.S. citizenship may be required. We are an equal opportunity employer. EXPECT GREAT THINGS 
Thursday, October 9, 1997 
The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS page 5 
Minority engineers tea01 up with local 01iddle schools 
By EMILY PARKER 
News Writer 
Notre Dame's Minority Engineering Program (MEP) has joined with several local middle schools to form the Ameritech Pre-College Minority Engineering Program. About 80 middle schools are involved. 
The University's college-of engineering dean's office founded the MEP in 1987 as 
an outgrowth of a national program designed to attract, support and retain minority students in the engineering program. 
"In 1987 the College of Engineering looked at its pro­gram and realized: 'We could do a lot better,"' said Joy Vann, director of the MEP. "Since 1987, the number of minority participants retained in the engineering program has jumped from 25 percent to 
©©©©©©©©©©©©© 
• Holiday & Cuslolll Bomruels 
• Gourmet & Party (~ookies 
Frank & Susan Frucci 6339A University Commons· South Bend, IN 46635 (219) 271-1586 Fax (219) 271-1610 
©©©©©©©©©©©©© 
97 percent." grade minority students. The Ameritech Pre-College In order to participate a stu­
Minority Engineering Program dent must have scored at least a 65 on the Indiana Statewide Testing for Educational Progress, or ISTEP, exam. They must also have main­tained at least a B average and have two letters of recom­mendation from school offi­cials. The program is designed to both enhance and augment the regular curriculum of 

experience.' these students. The program begins October
Joy Vann 
15th and continues on the first 

Director ofthe MEP 
and third Wednesdays of each month through the month of 

involves more than 80 sev­May.
enth-. eighth-, and ninth-While involved in the pro-

Tonight 8:00P.M. Walsh Hall Chapel 
Beginning-ofLife Decisions: A Personal_Response 
South Bend resident and cancer patient Tammy Groeke shares her personal story about carrying her pregnancy to full term despite the risks 
Music by Cora Primavera 
gram, students must do three things. They must give an oral presentation of at least a minute, complete their "pre­activity assignments," and take part in the Family Engineering Activities. 
In the family activities, stu­dents are to work with their family members on various activities. There are two Family Engineering Activities Days during the school year, one in the fall and one in the spring. 
"We are firm believers in the family experience," Vann said. 
The program is funded by a "distance-learning" grant from the Corporation for Educational Communications, a non-profit organization set up by Ameritech. 
The grant allows the college to purchase the video-confer­encing equipment needed as well as plan the curriculum development of this unique program. 
The classes will originate from a classroom in DeBartolo Hall and using the video-con­ferencing system, will allow the students and teachers to interact with the Notre Dame faculty and students in the engineering program. 
According to Vann, the pro­gram will have an impact on .both local and global commu­
nities. 
The video-conferencing sys­tem will now allow people from across the globe to par­ticipate in the engineering program. 
There has already been interest shown from the Indianapolis school district as well as from abroad. 

Holland Systems Corporation, headquartered in Lansing, Michigan, is a leader in client/server software development. We provide state ofthe art technological solutions to public and private clients through custom software design and development. We are starting several exciting new projects and are looking for Information Technology professionals. 
Presentation: Find out about Holland Systems Corporation at an information session: 
Date:  Tuesday, Nov. 11  
Time:  7:00pm-8:00pm  
Place:  Center for Continuing  
Education (CCE), Rm. 200  

Snacks and Pop Provided! All are Welcome! 
May and August Grads: Register on October 13 or 14 at the Placement Office for a November 12 appointment with a Holland recruiter. Check out Holland's Web site for company information at: www.holland-systems.com 
Date:  VVednesday,Nov. 12  
Place:  Career & Placement Services  
Hesburgh Library, Lower Level  

Five Positions Available: May I Aug. 1998 in Lansing and Ann Arbor, Michigan: 
Associate Consultant -Entry level position involving client/server and internet development utilizing RAD development methodologies. Technical environment includes PowerBuilder/Composer, C++/Pro C, Oracle/ Sybase. 

-------~ -~---~---------­
page 6 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT Thursday, October 9, 1997 
Calendar of Events 

Weekly Eucllaristlc Adotatlon BeginningMonday, September thereafter during the Academic _ , Campus Ministry will sponsor a 24 hour period ofEucharistic Adoration in Fisher Hall Chapel. Moratiori will begin with Mass at 11:00 p.m. on Monday l'llght~.;4)1d end with Mass at 
11:00 p.m. on Tuesday nights.:Fdtmore information please call 631-7800 or 631-$242. 
Respect Life Week "Beginning-of-Life Dec:lsl~1ns: Tammy Groeke, cancer Music by Coro Prltna\reraicl 
Thursday, October 9 8:00p.m. Walsh Hall Chapel 
Wednesdays, 7:1~ p.m. Stanford-Keenan Chapel 
World Mission Sunday Sunday, October 19 

Twenty:Eighth Sunday in Ordinary Time 
Weekend Preslders at Sacred Heart Basilica Saturday, October 11 
5:00 p~m. 
Rev. Paul Doyle, C.S.C. Sunday, October 12 
10:00 a.m. Rev. Reginald Whitt, O.P. 

11:45 a.m. Rev. Patrick Neary, C.S.C. Vespers Sunday, October 12 
7:15 p;m~, 

Sr. Carrine Etheridge, I.H.M. Scripture Readings 
·.Ht=='·'~:::=·.­ 
1St Reading  Wisdom  
2nd Reading  Hebrews  
Gospel  Mark  




It's a Matter of Life 
Jim Lies, C.S.C. 
Some of you know, I was born eighth in a family of ten children. My parents had their first nine children in ten years. At our house, we used to joke that my dad would come home from work and ask my Mom, "What's new?" and she would reply, "Look in the Crib!" As big as my hunily is, how­ever, most of you know that it wasn't that unusual in the days following WWll. Ten, twelve, fifteen, even twenty kids wasn't unheard of. It was a time when you simply took what was comin' to ya. My Mom and Dad didn't have much money. My Dad was a Catholic grade school teacher and my Mom was kept mightily busy at home, as you might imagine. But it wasn't about money, it was about life. And when my Dad died six months before their tenth child was born, and some suggested she give up the baby, Mom's deci­sion wasn't about economics, it was about life. She would keep that child because it wasn't about convenience, or even security, it was about life. 
This is Respect Life Week here at Notre Dame. And during this time we remind ourselves that indifference will never be enough. To sit idly by, will never be enough. But it isn't only about the m<~jor cultural threats to life that we have to concern ourselves. Ifwe are as we say we are, "Pro-life", then we need to promote and support life wherever we are. 
It will never be enough to say that I am opposed to abortion, and then fail to care for the needy child. It will never be enough to stand in protest against capital punishment and not concern ourselves with the care of the death row inmate. It will never be enough t<) preach against euthena­sia and never visit th_e sick, and the suffering, and the dying. It is no small task we undertake. We who call ourselves pro-life must stand up for life, for all life! We must stand in solidarity with thousands and millions who disdain the culture of death which pervades our time. 
We must stand in solidarity with the millions of children whose lives were cut short by abortion. We must stand in solidarity with the young women who, out of fear, seek abortion because they see no other way out of an unexpected pregnancy. We must. stand in solidarity with those whose lives are somehow deemed unworthy._ We must stand in solidarity with the prisoner, and the death row inmate. We must stand in solidarity with the mentally and physically disabled. We must stand in solidarity with those who are sick with terminal or seriously debilitating illnesses. We must stand in solidarity with all in whom the sanctity of life is denied. 
We are, all of us, called by God to stand together against death, and to stand together for life. In his 1995 encyclical, Evangelium Vitae, PopeJohn Paul II reminds us: 
We are facing an enormous and dramatic clash between good and evil, 
death and life, the "culture of death" and the "culture of life." We find 
ourselves not only "faced with" but necessarily "in the midst of' this con­
flict: we are all involved and we all share in it, with the inescapable 
responsibility of choosing to be unconditionally pro-life. 
It is no small matter. It is truly all that matters! If we are to be truly pro-life, however, we do not stand only with the unborn, the prisoner, the infirm and the elderly. We must, as believers in the LordJesus, stand togeth­er for one another. We must acclaim and affirm the life in ourselves, and in others! It is for us to see and nurture and support the life in all those around us. We must stand with our enemies as well as our friends. We must stand with our roommates, with our professors, with our families, and with all men and women, rega-rdless of race, creed, nationality, or orientation. 
John Paul II urges each of us, in Evangelium Vitae, to adopt a new scale of values-to give primacy to being rather than having, to persons rather than things. "Thisrenewed life-style," he tells us, "involves a passing from indifference to concern for others, from rejection to acceptance of them. " Together, says the Holy Father, "we sense our duty to preach the Gospel of Life, to cel­ebrate it in the Liturgy and in our whole existence, and to serve it" through "programs and structures which support and promote life". As Christians, we are people of life. Now, more than ever, we are called to live what we pro­fess! 

(Z\MPUSMINISTRY 

Thursday, October 9, 1997 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS page 7 
SMC housing incorporates wellness into community 
By MOLLY COOPER individual. a community that would col­stages, the committee working lege in this type of atmos­News Writer This fall another significant lectively focus on all aspects of on this project has already phere, more students of this step in the direction of this health. drawn up specific guidelines. orientation will be able to find 
In recent years. Saint Mary's emphasis is in the beginning The committee consists of Students choosing to live in an appropriate balance. College has promoted a well­stages of development. Rosswurm and students from these quarters would reside on "To become part of this com­ness program that emphasizes The Department of Housing the Housing Committee. LeMans Queen's Court, located munity," stated Rosswurm, a student's spiritual, physical, is exploring the possibility of Together, they arc working on on the second floor housing 20 "students would have to go intellectual, career, emotional, creating a Wellness a proposal for a wellness floor students and a resident advi­through a selection process environmental and social Community within the context to be located in one of the resi­sor. much like that of Annunciata health. of a residential community. dential halls. According to the The committee feels, accord­Hall." 
The College has stood behind Katherine Rosswurm, director proposal, "the floor would be ing to Rosswurm, that the Interested students would its conviction that every aspect of Housing, leads a committee 
for stu­comm u­complete an application and of the student's health is that is currently pursuing the dents who n i t y have their own night for room important in fostering an envi­idea of offering students are inter­should selection. ronment for the well-rounded opportunity to become part of ested in start out The proposal also states, maintain­as a "The wellness community will ing a s maIl be substance free and all resi­lifestyle group of dents will have to sign a con­
PreProfessional Society 
that sup­worn en tract agreeing not to smoke, ports acad­for its drink or use illegal drugs in emic suc­t r i a I this community." 
Second Meeting 
cess, per-y e a r . A defining characteristic of s o n a I --------------This idea this community would be develop-would cooperation between students ment and well-being and posi-not be of its first. Many col­and the resident advisor.
Medically Related Service/Club 
tive life choices." leges and universities have Students will take an active The finished proposal along entire resident halls devoted to role in designing their own
Opportunities at Notre Dame 
with the results of several stu-students interested in actively activities and rules such as dent focus groups will be sub-pursuing a healthy lifestyle. quiet hours. mitted for consideration to Rosswurm, the director of Rosswurm stressed that this Suzie Orr, the director of Saint Mary's Housing program living arrangement would not
Come hear about your options to become 
Resident Life and Linda Timm, said, "Students are struggling be set up for students not 
more involved on campus also 
vice president of Student to find a balance between all interested in having fun. Affairs. the aspects of wellness." Rather, it would be an envi­
discussion/organization of a new 
Although the wellness com-By encouraging this kind of ronment to foster the seven munity is still in its planning environment to experience col-aspects for well-being. 
Preprofessional Society sponsored event 
HEALTH WEEK 
7:45pm TONIGHT, Thursday Oct. 9 Cushing Room 303 
New Members Welcome 




The Montana Power Company 
Presents For Undergraduate and MBA Students in All Majors 
• 
Robert P. Gannon ('66) vice chairman, president and chief executive speaking on "Chaos Theory And The Emerging New Energy Industry," Thursday, October 16, at 3:30 p.m. in Jordan Auditorium. 

• 
Steve Dee ('62) vice president of Corporate Marketing and former Notre Dame College of Business Administration professor, teaching an OMEGA class on "Leadership Management and Marketing," Friday, October 17, from 8:45-10:15 a.m. in COBA Room 159. 

• 
An informal, university-wide discussion of the energy industry and full-time and summer internship career opportunities with Gannon, Dee, and Jack Haffey (MBA '72), executive vice president and chief operating officer of Montana Power's Energy Communications and Services Division, Friday, October 17, from 10:30-11:45 a.m. in COBA Room 162. · 

• 
For those students with a strong interest in the energy industry or The Montana Power Company, there are a limited number of opportunities for one-on-one interviews from 1-4 p.m., Friday, October 17. Contact Sarah Knapp 


at 631-8671 (e-mail at "Knapp.9") no later than October 13 to schedule an interview. 
The Montana Power Company (NYSE:MTP) is a $1.1 billion revenue, diversified energy and telecommunications company based in Butte, Montana. 
VIEWPOINT 
page 8 Thursday, October 9, 1997 
THE OBSERVER 
NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1997-98 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Brad Prendergast 
Managing Edi[Or 
Jamie Heisler 

Assistant Managing Editor 
Dan Cichalski 

News Editor............................ Heather Cocks Viewpoint Editor ..................... Kelly Brooks Sports Editor .................................. Mike Day Accent Editor........................... Joey Crawford Saint Mary's Editor ........................ Lori Allen Photo Editor ........................... Katie Kroener 
Business Manager Tom Roland 

Advertising Manager..............................jed Perers Ad Design Manager..................... Jennifer Breslow Production Manager ......................... Mark DeBoy Systems Manager ....................... Michael Brouillet Controller............................................ Kyle Carlin 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. h does nor necessarily reflect rhe policies of rhe administration ofeither institution. The news is reporred as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned edirorials represent rhe opinion of rhe majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editor, N~s Editor, Viewpoim Editor, Spans Ediror, Accem Ediror, Sainr Mary's Ediror, Phoro Edicor, and Assocaate News Editor. Commentaries. lerrers and Inside Columns present the views of the authors, and nor neces­sarily those ofThe Observer. Viewpoinr space is available ro all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's community and ro all readers. The free expression of varying opinions [hrough leners is encouraged. 
Editor-in-Chief Managing Editor News/Photo Sports Accent/Saint Mary's Day Editor/Viewpoint General Information 
Observer Phone Lines 
631-4542  Business Office  
631-4541  Advertising  
631-5323  Systems  
631-4543  Office Manager  
631-4540  Fax  
631-5303  Viewpoint E-Mail  
631-7471  Ad E-Mail  

631-5313 631-6900/8840 631-8839 631-7471 631-6927 Viewpoint. I @nd.edu observer@darwin.cc.nd.edu 

• GUEST COLUMN 
Both Sexual Holiness and Change Achievable for Christians 
Editor's Note: This column, written by Father Benedict Ashley, a professor of moral theology at the Aquinas Institute ofPhilosophy in St. Louis, discusses some of the points that Ashley will make in a lecture tonight on campus. Ashley will be speaking at 4:30p.m. in 138 DeBartolo Hall. 
The Theology of Human Sexuality and Homosexuality: 
Theological answers to questions about human sexuality must be derived from what the Bible (as interpreted in the living tradition of the Church) tells us 
Father Benedict Ashley 
about God's purpose in creating us as sexual beings. Jesus interpreted the Old Testament teaching on marriage to show that God created man and woman to complement each other in marriage for two purposes. First, so that they might be united in a union which is not only physical, but psychological and spiritual, since as we are told in Ephesians, this is a union of love like Christ's own love for his people. The second purpose of human sexuality, essential to us as social beings, is to produce the family on which all human society is built: "Be fertile, multiply, and fill the earth and subdue it." Marriage, thus, is to be a covenant of love that is both faithful and fruitful. 
What then of a third purpose, obvious enough, and for many of our contempo­raries the most important of all: sexual pleasure, ·'good sex"? That the Bible does not condemn sexual pleasure is plain. Yet physical pleasure is not an end in itself, but a facilitator of good activities. Thus we ought not to eat sim­ply for the pleasure, but because and to the degree that the pleasure of eating both nourishes us and contributes to human conviviality. When physical plea­sure becomes an end in itself, we are on the road to addiction. Sexual pleasure, therefore, is morally good when it promised the two essential purposes of sex, the love of man and wife and the building of their family. When it serves theses two purposes and is moderated by them it should be profoundly, richly enjoyed. When it is separated from them, it becomes addictive and deper­sonalizing. In view of what God in the Bible has told us about why he made us sexual, we must ask whether any partic­ular form of sexual activity can serve this purpose or whether it is contradicto­ry to it. Homosexuality and bisexuality are disabilities, since they make it diffi­cult or impossible for the victim to enter into a marriage that can fulfill the two goals of married love. 
Some have argued, "God made me gay, so he must want me to live as a gay." But it is false that God made any­one homosexual, anymore than God made some persons blind, deaf, or para­lyzed. An adequate theological answer to the problem of evil does not blame God for human defects, but the sinful history of the human race of which disabled persons are usually the innocent victims. 
This raises the question of the cause or causes of homosexuality. As the Vatican has recently said, this remains unknown, and it is probably that it is a symptom not of one but many condi­tions. Even heterosexuality is probably not a genetic given, but requires com­plex learning for which a healthy family environment is propitious, if not absolutely necessary. Thus previous lec­turers in this series have testified to the fact that, whether a genetic disposition to homosexuality exists or not, it can come about through accidents of early psycho-sexual development and even at a later date, just as can other forms of erotic fixation. 

es of homose , how can we say (as gay activists usually do) that homosexual orientation is always determined early, and is irreversible? There are cases of persons who, after years of enthusiastic homosexual activity, settle down to a happy heterosexual marriage. In fact, research seems to have shown that between complete homosexuality and complete heterosexuality, there is a range of bisexuality. 
Thus young persons who wonder if they are homosexual or who have exper­imented with gay activity ought to seek psychological and spiritual counsel before labeling themselves as "gay." Moreover, gay activists ought seriously to consider their responsibility to pro­mote research on the prevention and cure of this condition, as so many with other personal problems have done, rather than to discourage such research on the grounds that it stigmatizes a hopeless condition. 
Those who cannot achieve heterosexu­ality should realize that sexual fulfill­ment in marriage, the only kind that ful­and that therefore for every Christian single, heterosexual or homosexual, chaste celibacy is the true vocation. The courage of chaste homosexuals should kindle not pity, but admiration, and a determination to give them every sup­port possible as well as every legal sup­port against violence or unjust discrimi­nation. 
For those gays and lesbians who have not yet found it possible to accept this call from Jesus, we should show the riches or our sympathy and prayers and encouragement not to despair or to lapse into a reckless gay or lesbian way or life, and for those who mistakenly hope for a kind of permanent same-sex transformed into a chaste friendship free of the contradictions of genital activity. Finally, from those who are striving to follow the virginal Christ, the unmarried should learn chastity for themselves. and the married, the splendor of a love that can transcend this world. 
The views in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

• IJOONESBURY GARRY TRUDEAU 
TH£R£~ Jl8TTtXJMUCH
rM ~ORRY /JJ/3 CAN7OrF£1? YlJ(J 
Y~ ANlJ PON/f' 600/).N()(JJ 
JU5T50

RevENUE ATS~ A5
A t.ON6CRCIJNT1?.AC1; /3.1)., 81/T 
taJRRY, 7/R-HCR£'5 YOUR 
YOUKNOti/­

A SA?~ PROF£55/0NAt-,
ta'REt./14NG IN A Vt"A'YR£­
I'?t. 6filH/5 PLAYBOOt'. 
TH&YUK£

YOU SURtlY UNP£R!?TANP.
GI.Jt-75-t»W.WVClJtTUR£NOtu. .. 
TCAY CUINNING ITfi.VI? PRO-TH~ R:l55/NGAGAIN.I VIO&P8YOUR 
GAM£:

\ 
5PON70/?. .. I 
• 0.UOTE OF THE DAY 
"you can cover a great deal of country in books." 
-Andrew Lang 

VIEWPOINT
Thursday, October 9, 1997 page 9 
• TABLE TALK 
A Guide to Midterm Insanity 
Two weeks ago, as I was preparing to submit my usual Thursday column to Viewpoint, I happened to read the noto­rious inside column by Nora Meany entitled "Cheers ... I Think." I was so enraged by the views I thought were being expressed that I devoted my entire column to completely trashing her and tearing her down. 
It wasn't until a few hours before 
Mick Swiney 
press that I found out Meany's article was completely tongue-in-cheek; worse yet, that Meany herself was the "friend" who was so abused and ridiculed for her decision not to drink on her 21st birthday, the same friend who I thought I was defending with my rigorous assault. The column never ran -my editor thankfully decided to keep me from looking like an idiot and found another way to fill the space. (It was bad, though ... I used phrases like "cretinous loudmouth" and "intolerant wench.") 
Sinee then, however, happiness has returned to Observer-Land. I've talked to Nora and found out she's really not a bad sort at all, but in fact had only made the mistake of using subtlety in a community where students like to be beaten over the head with satire (e.g., tlw Keenan Hevue). Her article was just a bad judgment call. almost as bad as the one I was about to make; that being understood, all confusion has been clearl'!d 'liJ:f, all ci'isis averted, and every misconeeption reetified. Nora's proba­bly still getting mail for her article, but that's what the delete button is for, right? 
So now that everything's okay again, l'vo boen thinking about what went wrong, and why I plunged into some­thing so heatedly without thinking it through. The night before the column was supposed to run I was talking to a friend of mine (who incidentally caused quite a stir herself for writing an Inside Column that managod to offend most of Iloward Ilall) about the situation, and what she had to say about it really made sense to me. 
• lETTER TO THE EDITOR 
"This is the time of year," she said, "when we take everyone WAY too seri­ously." (I probably shouldn't have used quotation marks since I don't remem­ber EXACTLY what she said, but I'm sure you get the gist.) 
I thought about it, and soon realized that for the preceding two weeks I had been so swamped in pre-midterm papers and tests that I was practically hallueinating. I'm sure you know the problem well; its the infamous "unit" phenomenon. 
You see, nearly every syllabus cur­rently active at this school completes sections of study in units, and every "unit" seems to take exactly the same amount of time to reach a test-taking stage. The result is that less than a month into the school year you end up having about four tests in a span of two days, in addition to the half-dozen papers and homework assignments due the same week. You get swamped. 
This trend causes considerable stress and lack of sleep, whieh lead to exces­sive intake of artificial stimulants and reduced immunity to colds and illness­es, all of which accumulate to result in, you guessed it, IHHITABILITY. 
That's a nice way of saying that at regular intervals between September and December, Notre Dame students are COMPLETELY INSANE, and will BITE EACH OTHEHS' HEADS OFF at a moment's notice over the tiniest things. 
The bad news-wait, that was the bad news; I mean the worse news -is that the most ruthless of these "inter­vals" is almost upon us. For those of you who don't know, Notre Dame is one of few schools to offer fall break (the less exciting twin sister of Spring Break). As most other schools do not enjoy a week off in the fall, the faculty at this school feels guilty on our behalf and has decided that we should EARN our fall break by meeting the most heinous deadlines and eompleting the most massive projects ... all in the week before we leave. 
That's right, and the infamous week is almost upon us. At times like this, it is therefore essential to keep a perspec­tive on life and campus affairs, to dis­cern the consequential from the incon­sequential. Otherwise, we get worked up over stuff that isn't really a big deal, and to dash off seething letters to the Observer instead of studying and doing our homework. 
But if you're the conscientious and irritable ND student that I'm sure you are, you most likely think I'm promot­ing a disinterest and lack of involve­ment in community affairs. Some things are important, no matter what time of year it is. We at ND have problems and coneerns which daily affeet our interac­tions with one another and our eohe­sion as a soeiety; it is only by bringing these problems to the forefront that we have any chance of getting them solved. 
You know wha.t? You're right; we do need to stay involved in what goes on at this campus, whether we have time for it or not. Therefore, I have put together a handy guide for use during periods of high stress and insanity. In this guide, I have broken down the hot air sur­rounding the ND community into a number of different items to be given thought and consideration. (Anything else should be ignored until midterms are over.) 
Thus, without further ado, I present 
Things To Be Taken Seriously 
1. 
Drinking. Meany only got such a big reaction to her article because her supposed "stand" on the issue was all too believable. ND has a big drinking problem, the likes of which has already caused two deaths this year at other institutions across the country. We need to watch it, especially in times of stress; we need to keep our heads and try not to poison ourselves. If we do that, we'II be fine. 

2. 
Inclusion. A letter to the editor last week suggested that perhaps the administration keeps homosexuals from us because we are too immature to handle their presence ("Ole, Ole, Zahm's gay"?). This is true; in fact, ND students are too immature for a lot of things. So let's get over it. 


The only way to gain maturity is to be thrust into situations which demand it, like for example, the REAL WORLD. Being cuddled, kissed, and spoon-fed by the administration helps no one ­hello, parietals? The bottom line: they're here, they're queer, get used to them. 
3. ND/SMC Relations. They suck. But as far as the editorial warfare 
goes, let me present a hypothetical situ­ation: you are an ND student. You get ticked off. You write a letter to the edi­tor in a state of heightened affect (which, as I learned two weeks ago, is a BIG MISTAKE). You subsequently beeome affiliated with a eampus con­troversy, and with the entire anti-SMC movement. My question is this: 
Do you back down? 
Do you write in to the Observer and say "Hey, no big fuss, I'm an idiot, I got tieked off, I don't really mean any of that"? It's OK-I probably wouldn't, either. 
So why does everybody keep giving these "anti-SMC" girls attention? Let thtlm slink off into anonymity; for though they might enjoy their notoriety for now, I'm sure that they, like the rest of us, will soon be sick and tired of the whole thing. The students of SMC have already turned this negative situation into a positive one with their display of heightened community spirit -all that's left for Domers to do is to shut up and get on with our lives. 
4. Miscellaneous. Just so I don't get bombarded with irritable letters (mark.d.swiney.3@nd.edu), I'll provide this category for anything that really eats at you. Use your judgment: is it worth the emotional energy you spend on it? If so, don't let it get swept under the rug by obnoxious columnists like me. If not, let it go. You've got plenty else on your mind right now. 
So that's it-these are the things we think about, these are the things we take eare to ehange. All the rest is filler space, presidential inaugurations, law suits, and junk. 
But I suppose any list of things to take seriously wouldn't be complete without a list of things NOT to take seriously. I personally am tempted to say that everything not mentioned above belongs in this category. but if you'd like a little extra help in the discern­ment process, I have put together a brief guide to this opposite end of the spectrum. 
Things NOT To Be Taken Seriously: 
1. 
Stress 

2. 
Observer Columnists 

3. 
Each Other 

4. 
Yourself 


Good enough? . 
Mick Swiney is a junior Arts & Letters major. He can be reached by e-mail at mark.d.swiney.3@nd.edu. His column appears every other Thursday. The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those of The Observer . 

From Fourth Floor to Fourth Floor: NO Men Do Have Lives 
i\ response to Howard Hall Showgirls: 
For all eonccrned fourth floor Howard llall girls who think that television has rotted our brains. we beg to di!Ter. 
Our lives are filled with aetiv­ity. albeit routine, but activity nonetheless. Apparently, the light of our television has dis­tracted your eye from the actu­al happenings of our days. Because if you had been atten­tive to more than our television Sf)t, you would have seen six men deeply submersed in Notre Dame life. 
With majors spanning from pre-medieine to Spanish to finance to theology, our room drips of eeleetie interests and heartfelt pursuits. Extracurrieular activities con­sist of club involvement (Arab­American, finance, invest­ment), HOTC, guitar, and Eucharistic ministry. But our objective is not to show off. We do not wish to pretty ourselves so that you may think better of us. We only hope that our libeled charaeters may shed true light of work and sweat and fun. 
In order to prove how our lives stop infrequently for the television, we will illustrate a typical day. First we wake around 7:30a.m., shower, dry in green towels, head to break­fast and then to our respective classes. We do take a brief 30 minutes of our day at 2:30 p.m. for an intriguing game of Jeopardy. Around 3 p.m., our room is physically active. Some of us life at the Rock's weight room, while others run the lakes. During the remainder of the night, we occupy ourselves with studying and writing in order to further our aeademic scholarship. Only in the small breaks from our studies do we venture into our eommon room to grab a quick snaek and occupy our eyes with the mind­freeing entertainment of televi­sion. 
In rebuttal: 
Is it not a fact, that our win­dow has become your big­screen TV? You claim our lives are pathetic because of TV, but how much more pathetic are your lives for watching us watch TV? Nevertheless. it is still confusing how we can be your big-screen TV when you turned us off a long time ago. 
Do you really consider corre­spondence to consist of yelling at people and making catcalls? What construction worker school of etiquette did you attend? I see why our school has such awful gender commu­nication skills. Besides, you are not the only ones with a reveal­ing view of someone else's daily life. 
Judging from the shadows on our cave's wall (and these ain't no little shadows). it is quite obvious that running over and gobbling on our Twizzlers is not high on your list of priori­ties. 
And what would you reeom­mend we spend our time doing ... jumping on our beds like prepubeseent five-year-olds? Maybe our time would some­how be more fulfilled if we tried on seven or eight outfits before we go out. (By the way, I really agreed with your deci­sion to wear the black dress, it was very flattering and com­

So, yes. our lives may not be neighborly gesture: an invita­,as profoundly fulfilling as tion to an evening of TV watch­yours, cataloging the every ing or bed-jumping, whichever movement of your unknown you prefer. How does Thursday neighbors whom you do not night sound? even have the courage to talk to (which, in some parts of the country, is referred to as Randall Lannie "stalking" and is a criminal Junior, Morrissey Manor offense). On that note, we October 7, 1997 

page 10 
Thursday, October 9, 1997 
freddy jones band 

Lucid 
T
he most recent release from the Freddy Jones Band, Lucid, is exactly as the name indicates. The word. meaning "to be easily understood or mentally dear." describes the music on the album well. September marked the release of the Chicago-basnd group's fourth album on the Capricorn record labnl. but the album sur­prisingly received little notice in the South Bm1d area. which was once one of the band's <~arly fea­ture performance spots. 
On their latest studio effort, the Freddy Jones Band returns with 12 songs that blond a relaxed, easy-going sound with hardened rock. TIH~ op<ming track. "Wonder," is a return to tho unique har­monies put out by vocalists WaynR Healy and Marty l.loyd and some great guitar solos reminiscent of their early album, Waiting .for the Night, which pop­ularized the song "In a Daydream." "Waiting on the Stone" is the next track displaying the easy-going sound with l.loyd providing soulful lyrics and Hob Bonaccorsi highlighting on slide guitar, a key to the FJB flavor. "If I Could" is an almost romantic slow tune which strikes as a little too breathy, although some of that breathiness gives passion to the song. Listeners will notice a certain trance-like echoing effect to both the lyrics and instrumentals of this song and many others on the album. Highlights abound on other tracks from the CD induding "Blue Moon," which gives a first time listener a taste of the Freddy Jones Band's gritty Chicago rock accent. 

Another highlight of the album was the guest appearance of Chris "Hambone" Cameron whose inventive work on keyboards complemented well. In an August 14 interview, members of the band nxplained of Uw new album that. "no matter what song came on ... you could toll it was thn Freddy .Jones Bane!." This unquestionably distinct sound was achieved in l-t1cid. 
For those listeners who arn familiar with Freddy .Jones, tiH~ album's divnrsity of' sound will probably overshadow its third release. North Avenue Wake l!p Call. However, it lacks some of the catchiness f(nmd on Waiting for the Night. This lack of' apw~al may diminish the amount of first-time listeners sub­seribing to their music. It is apparent that the sounds on the album are definitely constrained to a studio, but some good lyrics and great instrumentals indicate that the Freddy Jones Band's gn~at concert reputation and strong grass-roots following is well deserved. For those interested in that genre of music, or those looking for some unique new sounds, check out the Freddy Jones Band's new rnlease Lucid. 
by Dave Clark 

kula shaker 

k 

S 
hakermaker? No, Kula shaker!! When Vanity Fair did its recent review of London's cultm.·al 
renaissance, music was front and center. 
Beyond the full-page shot of Liam and Patsy in bed (.John & Yoko anyone?), particular att<mtion was paid to the emergence of Kula shaker and its recent release, simply titled K. 
Kula shaker fancies itself the inheritor of' The Beatlos' quest to explore India, in particular that country's rich musical and spiritual heritage. llow ironic then, that 1997 is India's 50th anniversary of' independence from you know who. By the way, in ease you can play bass or sing lead vocals in Blur (i.e. you arc totally ignorant) India is that big place in­b<~tween Pakistan and Bangladesh. 
In terms of goopolitics, I don't think Kula shaker knows Kerala from Punjab. However thr. music on this record is of top quality and should not h<) missed. 
The opening track, "lley Dude," is to be played at high volume. For even better results, try headphones. There are many background sitar effects on this record which can get lost otherwise. Chocked full of straightforward guitar, the band works itself into a frenzy several times over during "Knight On The Town," before they start getting a bit abstract on the third track, "Temple Of Everlasting Light." 

(out of five stars) 
The next track, "Golvinda." is complotnly indis­<:ernible and ratlwr annoying. Not only is there not a word of English in the song, but the beat is reminis­cent of some 'XOs Top 40 selection. and it falls short of anything which is supposod to move the listener to new spiritual heights. But, just when you think you've bnen had by your local IIMV dealer, you sense a rebirth with the <wnr uplifting "Into The DnPp." Kula shaker really shifts it into high gear with Tattva and blows your hnad ofT with ":~O:)." It soon becomes elnar why Kula shaker is Noel Gallaglwr's favorite new band of' 1997. 
Lot's be honest. The dosest this band will ever get to grasping India is hanging out with Donald Trump at Tlw Taj Mahal in Atlantic City. But, that didn't stop Neil Young and Beck from inviting Kula shaker to join last summer's H.O.H.D.E. tour of USA. This band has potential and friends in the right places. Get this one. You'll be glad you did. 
by Sean King 

the sundays 

-tr -tr .;,'r ;,"(·Cl

Static & Silence (out of five stars) 
T
hough it's been five years since we've last heard from the Sundays, one listen to Static &_Silence, a~d it feels lik~ ?eing reunited with an old fnend. Perhaps It IS because their music has always been intimate and sincere. Warm and comforting like your favorite sweater, the Sundays possess a preternatural gift for soothing your soul, as if they're the only ones in the world who understand you. 
And this is what makes them so irresistible. The beauty of their music lies in their sheer simplicity and humanity. They speak to something within each of us. experiences that we had or long to have at some point in our lives. If you allow yourself to be enveloped by the songs, you will realize how they arc providing the soundtrack to some of life's poignant moments, like driving home late at night, left with nothing but your reflections or taking a stroll in the park on a brisk autumn day, kicking up leaves and holding hands with your sweetheart. 
Despite a change of season, the album opens with a comparable scenario in the sparkling "Summertime." Jaunty and downright exhilarating, Harriet Wheeler pours her honey-coated voeals over the words: "And it's you and me in the summertime/We'll be hand in hand down in the park/With a squeeze and a sigh and that twinkle in your eye/And all the sunshine banishes the dark." 
But before you get too cozy with the lovefest, the group offers up a decidedly different mood on the wistful "Homeward." Here Wheeler's cherubic voice is enough to make you melt, as she reveals: "You've stolen my heart and I want you to remember/Now what'lll do?/Living alone." 
In the meantime, the pastoral "I Can't Wait" and the halcyon "Leave This City" call for a change in one's life, while simultaneously demonstrating the Sundays' flair for surrounding earthly messages with an otherworldly sound. 
The most delicious moment, however, occurs on the languid, Mazzy Star-like "When I'm Thinking About You." Instantly captivating, David Gavurin's gentle strumming exquisitely complements Harriet Wheeler's ethereal singing, as she yearns: "!lope I'll never wake/When I'm thinking about you." The arrival of a delicate piano arrangement toward the end of the song adds to its overall loveliness. 
The album's title seems to be an obvious choice when you consider the words spoken by Stephen Dedalus in James Joyce's A Portrait o.f the Artist as a Young Man. Explaining one of the methods by which our minds apprehend the beautiful, he says: "The instant wherein that supreme quality of beauty. the dear radiance of' the aesthetic image, is apprehended luminously by the mind which has been arrested by its wholeness and fascinated by its harmony is the luminous silent stasis of aesthetic pleasure, a spiritu­al state very like ... the enchantment of the heart." Static & Silence -enchanting indeed. 
-by Anthony Limjuco 


-..._ 

the velveteens 
experience east coast ska-soul in south bend this friday 
W
hen the Velveteens come to town this Friday, don't expect to sit back and listen to their music. Matt Larsen, trombonist, says their "east coast sound will be loved by those in the Midwest. You won't be able to stop dancing." The Velveteens have arrived in South Bend at the perfect time, amidst a campus­wide dialogue concerning the music scene and its treatment of original music, and they promise to blow you away.. 
The Velveteens are a traditional ska-soul band from the College of William and Mary in Williamsburg, Virginia. They have been together now since June of '96, and have amassed an impressive repertoire of both original and cover material. Their current tour is promot­ing their forthcoming CD, entitled, Viva las Velveteens, which will be released on October 24 through their indepen­dent label. The writing duties are taken by Todd Stevens, guitarist, Blake Surbey, percussionist, Tim Shaw, trum­peter, and Larsen, who attributes their original sound to combining each of the writers' different influences. Larsen, a native of Chicago, Ill, sees this tour as a type of homecoming for himself. even though the rest of his band is from the 
D.C. area. Larsen has already had his share of fame as the trombonist for the popular Chicago ska ensemble, Hot Stove Jimmy. However, he warns listen­ers not to expect that famous Jimmy­esqe style, as the Velveteens have achieved their own autonomous and exciting feel. "We don't model our sound off of any band, we try to play what we hear inside of us. Our music combines lyrics that are humorous and relevant with a bevy of horn solos, resulting in a big and boisterous sound that makes you get off your booty." 
Larsen also aads that they first brought the traditional ska sound to William and Mary and have sent the campus into a frenzy since their incep­tion more than a year ago. With a 10 piece band and five piece horn section, the Velveteens have mustered a rep­utable sound and a faithful following out east. They will be at Jazzman's on Friday night, and will surely prove why this is the case. The show will begin around 10:30 p.m., and Stamper Bob will also appear on the bill. 

coolbone 
Brass-Hop t'r 
(out of five stars) 


F 
or anyone who has enjoyed chicken and waf­fles or a peanut and jelly sandwich, it is fairly obvious that unlikely combinations can pro­duce delicious results. However, it is also true that seemingly natural unions can result in something extremely distasteful. For example, the popular inte­gration of sampled jazz and hip-hop would make most musicians and fans believe that a rapper work­ing with a live jazz band would be a natural, and suc­cessful, musical endeavor. Unfortunately, those indi­viduals are very, very wrong. 
US3 tried to bring the jazz-rap fusion to the main­stream in the early '90s, and they even scored a· hit with "Cantaloop." However, despite that hit song, it became apparent that the mix of live, mellow funk and intellectual rhymes would simply not work out. The latest group to attempt such a live jazz and rap album is Coolbone with Brass-Hop. Give these guys credit for producing a consistent album, consistently bad that is. It is extremely difficult to enjoy an album when the second song, "Brass-Hop," contains the lines. "Diggidy Dum/Diggidy Diggidy Dum Durn/You can suck your thumb/While my record goes plat­inum." Of course it will. 
Much later, Coolbone hits rock bottom when they cover the classic New Orleans anthem, "The Saints," and add annoying, unimpressive rap lyrics for good measure. Songs like this one make a sane person wonder what mental disorder is present among most record company executives. 
The basic problem with Brass-Hop (and albums like it) is the simple fact that jazz should not and cannot be limited by conventional song structures. When a group like A Tribe Called Quest loops a jazz sample, they focus on a specific element of a complex jazz track. They do not limit a backing band by forcing them to play the same basic rhythms over and over again. Furthermore, the rock and rap combination has worked so well because of the simplistic nature of popular metal music. Rage Against the Machine does not waste a lot of time with sonic experimentation or elaborate solos; they create hard, simple, adrenaline­pumping songs that can be easily and naturally rapped over. , 
Because of their influences (New Orleans brass, John Coltrane, and many others), Coolbone should realize that live jazz is the world's most sacred. art form. By trying to limit jazz, Coolbone creates a messy mixture that destroys the expansive possibili­ties of hip-hop and jazz. For those listeners who have been anticipating an MC I-Iammer-Kenny G collabora­tion, this album will be an instant classic. But for those listeners who have retained both their senses and their love of hip-hop and jazz, it would be a good idea to .skip this album. 
byDJ Spak 


Dance Hall Crashers The Frogs/The Stryrenes Mike Watt Machine Head/Snot!Lungbrush Toad The Wet Sprocket Ben Folds Five/Verbow/Kim Fox God Street Wine Dinosaur Jr. Jane's Addiction/Goldie Blues Traveler/Jonny Lang Oct. 18 Oct. 18 Oct. 24 Oct. 25 Oct. 29 Oct. 30 Oct. 30 Nov. 1 Nov. 3 Nov. 21-22 
, Clutch Cargos (Pontiac) Empty Bottle (Chicago) Double Door (Chicago) The Vic (Chicago) Riviera Theatre (Chicago) The Vic (Chicago) Patio Lounge (Indianapolis) St Andrews Hall (Detroit) Aragon Ballroom (Chicago) Aragon Ballroom (Chicago) 
.. 
-


2. 
Radiohead-OK Computer 

3. 
Sweep The Leg Johnny-4,9,21,30 

4. 
Smoking Popes-Destination Failure 

5. 
Stereolab-Dots And Loops 

6. 
Yo La Tengo-I Can Hear The Heart Beating As One 

7. 
Chemical Brothers-Dig Your Own Hole 

8. 
Grifters-Full Blown Possession 

9. 
Echo & The Bunnymen-Evergreen 

10. 
Me First & The Gimme Gimme's-Have A Ball 


1. The Refreshments-The Bottle & Fresh . Chumbawamba-Tubthumbing 
3. Ben Harper-The Will To Live .... . Cherry Poppin' Daddies-Zoot Suit Riot . Teenage Fan Club-Songs From Northern Britain 
6. 
Tanya Donnelly-Love Songs for Underdogs 

7. 
Catherine Wheel-Adam & Eve 

8. 
Oasis-Be Here Now 9. Size 14-Size 14 


10. Save Ferris-It Means Everything 
r-----------­
page 12 The Observer • SPORTS Thursday, October 9, 1997 
W.Soccer 
continued from page 20 
the soccer team following a successful stint playing field hockey at the collegiate and national levels. 
"My mom is one of my role models," said Erikson. "She was a really good field hockey player and very competitive. She and I are a lot alike." 
It was also the "family" atmosphere that drew Erikson to choose Notre Dame from a list that included North Carolina, Stanford. Santa Clara, Connecticut and Washington. 
"When I came on my recruiting trip, I just got a feeling. I just knew that this was the right place for me," said Erikson. "It just seemed like a big family, and I really
-loved the team. 
"This has been one of the most fun teams I've ever played on," raved Erikson. "Usually there are a few peo­ple you don't get along with, but that's not the case here." 
Although her Irish soccer career has just barely begun, Erikson, the youngest player on the 1997 Under-20 Nordic Cup team, has aspirations of playing soccer, among other things, after graduation. 
"Right now I'm just going to keep doing what I'm doing," said Erikson. "Afterwards, I'd like to have a family, maybe become a coach or elementary school teacher, or get into the communications field. But if the opportunity presents itself, I'd like to continue play­ing soccer." 
If Erikson's solid play for the Irish so far is any indica­tion of her ability, any future limitations exist only in her mind. 
X Country 
continued from page 20 
improvement as of yet, but our team, they way we train, is really geared more towards running 10,000 meters which is what we need to do at our dis­trict meet." 
They say that the youngest stars burn the brightest. That is certainly the case on the Notre Dame squad. The Irish expect great things from two of their newcomers, sophomore Joanna Deeter for the women, and fresh­man Ryan Shay for the men. 
"Joanna placed 3rd in NCAAs as a freshman," said Piane. To put that into perspective, there are roughly 10,000 athletes who participate in cross coun­try; she's third. That's pretty good. Can she replicate that this year? Only time will tell." 
Said Piane of Shay, "He has done a great job. He is going to do nothing but get better this year and the next three years." 
The Irish will take their youthful talent to Greenville, S.C., to compete in the Furman Invitational this weekend. 
"In order to qualify on an at­large basis for the NCAA, it depends on who you have defeated. We are going down there with the specific purpose of beating teams who will qual­ify, and frankly everyone else." 
However, success at the Furman Invitation will not come easily. Sixteen out of 26 men's teams who will attend are ranked or have received votes to be ranked. The women face a similarly difficult task. 
But with the talent and guts they have shown so far, the new found fame of the Notre Dame cross country teams should place little burden on the Irish as they run on through the rest of their season. 
SMC 
continued from page 18 
letes." 
The intensity of play cannot be overlooked after watching an intramural game. "It gets pretty competitive," said Vanoverbeke. This level of play has come as a surprise to freshman Katie Scott. "It's a little more competitive than we thought it would be," com­mented Scott. "People really want to win." 
While teams are certainly interested in the prestige title of Intramural Champs being bestowed upon them, having fun is also an important draw­ing point to involvement. "It's a fun bonding experience with my friends, and a chance to get outside and enjoy the weather while we can," commented Dodde. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day clas­

Classifieds sifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including ~II spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classlfieds for content without issuing refunds. 
ROOMS IN PRIVATE HOME  I want to trade 6 Navy tixs for 3  NEED 1 USC GA  obsessed much?  
NOTICES WANTEDII ~----------------~ ~L~A~R~G~E~R~E~A~L~E~S~T~A~T~E~C~O~.~  FOR FOOTBALL WEEKENDS AND OTHER ND-SMC EVENTS.  BC tixs Call Sam 289-2767 USC stud tic for $45. (You  Call Christina 634-1425 1 Student exchanged BC GA 4  Dear JB (Baldie), Happy 17th B-day!  
THE PRIMROSE PATH BED &  NR. CAMPUS IS SEEKING  VERY CLOSE TO CAMPUS ­ need ID!) Call44465  Sale Call Louie@ x1842  -Men's Swim Team  
BREAKFAST-LOCATED 15  RELIABLE PART-TIME  5 MIN. DRIVE OR 15-20 MIN.  
MINUTES NORTH OF CAM­ RECEPTIONIST. PHONE &  WALK.  1 USC GA and 1 BC GA  2stud tixbooks-(Unsigned)  sorry that classified was so stu­ 
PUS HAS OPENINGS FOR  COMPUTER EXPERIENCE A  243-0658.  for sale.  Leave message w/  One Senior-One Junior  pid, it had to be sacked  
FOOTBALL WEEKENDS.  MUST. $7.75/HOUR, 1-6 M-F;  best offer @ x4420  All games! $120 cumulative  
LOVELY HISTORIC INN. FULL  9-2 SAT. SEND RESUMES TO  THAT PRETTY PLACE, Bed  Brian 3423  My recap of the game: PW lost  
ELEGANT BREAKFASTS. 4  P.O BOX 11397, SOUTH  and Breakfast Inn has space  2 PITT GA's  and the PE Pyres remained  
GUEST ROOMS. AIC, CABLE  BEND, IN 46634.  available for football/parent  Face or BO  Need 2 USC GA'S and 4 BC  undefeated. There's only room  
TV. 2 NIGHTS REQUIRED.  wknds. 5 Rooms with private  4-3402  GA'S For Family. Call Rob or  for one Pasquerilla at the top!  
$80-$100. CALL 616-695-6321  ******Windsor Park****"*  baths, $70-$90,  Bobby X3056  Go PYROS!  
***Conference Center***  Middlebury, 30 miles from  4 GA's to Navy for sale!!!  
000 THE COPY SHOP 000  Upscale restaurant ("The Vintage Cafe") looking for  campus. Toll Road, Exit #107, 1-800-418-9487.  Call Colleen @ 4-3848  USC .. BOSTON.. NAVY W.VA.GAs FOR SALE 272­ Those responsible for sacking the classifieds have been  
LaFortune Student Center  experienced evening waitstaff  Alumni needs 3 GA USC tixs.  7233  sacked. We now return you to  
Store Hours Mon.-Thur.: 7:30 a.m.-Midnight  for ala carte dining. Must be 21 y.o. Apply in person; M-F  Unfurnished 2bdrm duplex w/space for office.  Call Megan at 773-327-1480.  GARTH  BROOKS  your ads.  
FrL7:30 a.m.-7:00p.m. Sat.: Noon-6:00 p.m.  4020 Edison Lakes Parkway Mishawaka  Near St.Joe Hosp. $425/mo. + utilities & security  I need 2 USC GAs. 634-3880  IN  CHICAGO 272-7233...  Will somebody stop the chop?  
Sun.: Noon-Midnight (closed home football Sat.'s)  Need one ACTEX manual for  dep. 287-0433.  USC GA's needed DESPER­ATELY!!!!!!!!!  PERSONAL  0!  
Phone 631-COPY  Actuarial Exam 100. Call John  Call Colin at 288-2504  Glad you called.  
287-5190  FOR SALE  PREGNANT? If you are preg­ 
FOR  SALE  nant and considering your  I wish I was at Coveleski.  
KEENAN HALL CHARITY GOLF SCRAMBLE Saturday, October 11  **Spring Break..."Take 2"** Hiring Reps! Sell 15 .. Take 2 Free. Hot destinations! Free  Clean House near campus! 746 Marquette ave $98,500  3 USC G.A.s $160 obo 284-5116  options, we are a loving couple looking to adopt. Please call 1-800-866-8848 after 6 PM  Keep calling me, news boy... I think you're cute  
10 AM Shotgun, 18 holes  Parties. Eats, Drinks.  1,600 sq ft 3 bdrm, FM, 2 bath  (expenses paid).  
4 players/team, $1 0/player PRIZES: 1st, 2nd, 3rd, long drive  SunSplash 1-800-426­771 O/www.sunsplashtours.com  2car garage,a/c call 287-6868 Fatama Rosary with pouch and  NOTRE DAME FOOTBALL TICKETS BUY -SELL-TRADE  WANTED: FORMAL DATES JR. OR SR. W/3 FRIENDS  You know, it is really wonderful to be single  
close to pin  two sets of meditations. $5.00  232-0058  FOR MY ROOMIES.  Marc Glasstetter & Chris  
PIZZA AFTERWARDS!  Restaurant Servers wanted at  Nord life  CONFIDENTIAL  CALL 0849  Biasotti- 
To sign up call Chris @ x3271  Old Chicago Steakhouse.  2233 Adams  TICKET-MART, INC.  Your names are in the paper!  
ILOST & FOUND I  Apply after 5:00pm at 222 S. Michigan St. 234-5200 Under New Management.  Lorain, OH 44052 GREAT DEAL on 35mm cam­ BUY/SELL NO SEASON AND INDIVIDUAL GAME TICKETS.  ATTN: Gay, Lesbian, Bisexual Students, Faculty & Staff: ORIGINAL Student-run group  Chris­ -MK :-)  
era.  Brand new Minolta  674-7645.  will hold "Coming Out" Support  Happy Birthday, you big stud!!  
would appreciate anyone who  Maxxum 500si, Sigma 28-80;  Group Meeting TONIGHT,  Love, Amy  
finds keys to room 308 to call  Restaurant Hostess wanted at  70-210 lenses, 4 filters. List  NO  FOOTBALL TICKETS  Thurs., 10/9 at 8PM.  
x1862 If you find the little grit who stole them, you can also call x1862  Old Chicago Steakhouse. Apply after 5:00pm at 222 S. Michigan St. 234-5200 Under New Management.  $825 Sell $625. 277-5912 b4 10 pm TICKETS  FOR SALE DAYTIME#: 232-2378 EVENING#: 288-2726  Call 236-9661 for details. i live at a spare station  For a good time, call 4-FREE. Married men are cool.  
NO TICKETS WANTED  BIG JIM  "Suprisingly, this cheese is  
- black-grey sweatshirt w\ keys taken at Stepan Fields -turn in to notre dame security  Marketing Intern needed for Heartland and Old Chicago Steakhouse. Call for interview  I NEED GA TIXS ALL NO HOME GAMES.272-6551  DAYTIME#: 232-2378 EVENING#: 288-2726  thanks for the do-nuts! the phys 241 lab students  actually working!" Funny how they get you when  
at 234-5200.  More informa'ion  FOR  SALE  i don't want to be here  your back is turned ....  
blue bookbag lost in bookstore  posted at Career/Placement  NEED 4 STUD TIX -GA'D  N.D.  G.A.'S  i want to be somewhere  
on 1 0/1.  if found call steve at  Center.  FOR NAVY CALL TODD  271-9412.  i don't really care about details  Hi Mom.  
x-2070.  REWARD OFFERED!!  243 5609  just not here  
WANTED N D G A'S  And now for something com­ 
LOST: BLUE FOSSIL WATCH  ND/SMC/Holy Cross students VECTOR INTERNATIONAL  4 USC GAs 703-590-937 4  TO ALL HOME GAMES 271 1526  NATIONAL COMING OUT DAY PICNIC ....  pletely different....  
with leather band call: john -4197 reward!!  will be accepting applications for  lv msg  WANTED: 2 BC TIX. WILL  STONEHENGE 11 :30 ­1:30pm  Steve, Congradulations on your building the log cabin!!!  
please!  part-time postions.  All majors  Wanted: Individual wants tick­ TRADE FOR WVA GA'S OR  Friday, Oct. 10th.  
may apply.  Flexible schedules  ets for LSU/Notre Dame Game.  CASH. CALL JOHN AT  Come Out and Support your  So I heard he's a slut....  
around classes are available.  Will pay cash. Phone (318}752­ (415} 668-1391 BY 10/18.  fellow Students, Facutly, &  
found book laying in engineeri­ 1208 or (318)747-8820.  Staff.  Yeah, and I like corn.  
ing classroom  Where:  HOLY CROSS  
call john -4197 to identify  VINCENT HALL ATRIUM  Need 4 BC TIX 716-425-9845  000 THE COPY SHOP 000  Shooting Cupid at Jazzman's  
.....  LOST: Purple fleece in Debart on Thurs., Oct 2 between 2­3:15. Please send him home, I  When: MONDAY OCTOBER 13TH 11 a.m.-1 :30 pm if unable to apply in person call 282-2357 on mon/tues 12-5.  Married Stud Tix forsale 4-461 0 Need BC GA's. Grandparents  Want two home game football tickets for 11/2 or 1 0/25. Call Alan, collect, (813)899-1208  LaFortune Student Center -i High-Speed Copies -i Canon Color Laser Copies -i Digital Color Printing -i Binding & Laminating  tonight, 10 p.m. BE THERE OR ELSE!!!! Shameless, free promotion!  
miss him.  Reward.  243-2643.  are coming in and will pay  after 7 PM EST.  -i Public Fax Service 631-FAX1  
-·  lost CAMERA at west quad for­mal call ali X1511  FOR RENT BULLA RD. MCKINLEY TER­ good money! Call Frank, 4­2340. I need tix for NO/USC game. I  4 Navy GAs 4 sale Great Price Call Michele @ x0831  Phone 631-COPY Hey Jon, it's shower time!  We're sorry. Those responsible for sacking those responsible for sacking the classifieds have been sacked. The classifieds  
LOST: key ring with T AZ key chain. last seen on lakeside of  RACE, SWANSON PARK 3 BDRM  am willing to trade NO/West Vir. tix or NO/Navy tix or pay  Need USC & BC tickets  Sizzling Saturday SYR!! Wanna come to the hottest  will now be completed by someone else.  
Bond Hall. X3528  please call Mike at  HOMES, 1 & 2 BDRM DUPLEXS ALSO. 2726551  cash ... Call Bob (818)793­0412  Call Greg 2288  dance on campus?? Call4-1391  

r-------------------------------------------------------------------­
Thursday, October 9, 1997 The Observer • SPORTS page 13 
• NFl 

Mirer struggles in Bears' offense Minnesota needs 
The Associated Press 
LAKE FOREST, Ill. 
Nine days ago, Chicago Bears coach Dave Wannstedt said his plan was for Rick Mirer to be 

quarterback the rest of the season. 
On Sunday, he yanked him at half­time during a loss to New 
Orleans. On 
Rick Mirer 

Monday, Mirer lost his starting job to Erik Kramer. 
And on Wednesday, Mirer was demoted to No. 3 behind Steve Stenstrom, who's thrown four passes in his NFL career. 
"Yeah. I'm upset," Mirer said. "I want to throw chairs through windows, but that's not going to solve anything. I need to play better. llopcfully things that are told to me happen. That's alii ask for." 
Mirer, acquired from Seattle in a trade that cost the Bears a first-round draft pick, has a 
three-year, $10 million eon­tract. 
But he's been struggling and hasn't generated a touchdown in his three starts this season. 
Mirer was not pleased when he was benched in the second half of the 20-17 loss to the Saints because he thought Wannstedt was going to stick with him. 
"He said that and I think he meant that, but it didn't hap­pen," Mirer said. "It's a game where we could win this thing, get over a hump and make some strides. You'd like to last that long and get that far. In and out is no fun either. 
"That's what happened again. I was upset, I'm mad and frus­trated, but I'm not going to let that affect anybody else because that doesn't help us win." 
Wannstcdt said he under­stood Mirer's disappointment over being demoted to third team. 
"That is not even an issue," he said. "The issue is that he wants to be the starter and he's working real hard to be the 
Saint Mary's College Notre Dame, IN 25TH ANNUAL 
LONDON SUMMER PROGRAM 
Travels in Ireland, Scotland _________ _I:pg_land gnd France 


MAY 20TH -JUNE 19TH, 1998 
Courses offered in History, Sociology, Theater Psychology and International Business. 
Organizational meeting: Monday October 13, 1997 7:30PM 
Carroll Auditorium, Madeleva Hall 
Saint Mary's College 
Info: Phone 284-4496 or 4623 
Takethe less-traveled 
road 

Fr. Jim King, c.s.c. 

Give us one year. Give yourself the chance. 
For more information on the Holy Cross one-year Candidate Program contact 
Moreau Seminary Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-6385 
http://www.nd.edu/-vocation 
ANSWER~ 
THE CALL'<!>/ 
starter and nobody is more dis­appointed in where we are at right now than he is." 
Before finding out he was now No. 3, Mirer said he was unhappy with lack of informa­tion from the coaching staff on how he would be used. 
"I wish the communication was a little better. I'd like to know exactly where I stand instead of hearing it through the grapevine .... I think I deserve that information." 
The Bears (0-6) figured they could nQt afford to keep experi­menting with Mirer as he strug­gled to learn a new system, especially since they play Green Bay on Sunday. Mirer's quar­terback rating is just 45.5. 
That's why he was removed at half against the Saints after completing just 7 of 16 passes. 
"It's a tough situation, it real­ly is," Wannstedt said. "He came in here and everybody knows the story. It was obvious Sunday night and the last cou­ple of games we were not gen­erating enough offense or enough points. It's not all his fault." 

to get on the Ball 
The Associated Press looking for Ball to contribute even more as he plays his wayEDEN PRAIRIE, Minn. into shape after missing all of Jerry Ball has been in on training camp and the first fewer than 25 plays and has four week:; of the season. He two tackles in two games with is trimming down from the 
the Minnesota Vikings. 335 pounds he reported at 2 Measured by those numbers, 1/2 weeks ago -but not too it has been an unimpressive much. start. Ball knows the best way for That's not the best way to him to keep eating space is, gauge Ball's impact, though. well, to keep eating. 
To get a better idea of the ''I'm down, but right now all burly nose tackle's contribu­I'm trying to do is get the run­tions, consider the perfor­ning right," he said. "You look mance of John Randle. at a guy like (Carolina offen­
Before Ball joined the sive tackle Greg) Skrepenak.Vikings, the All-Pro tackle had He's 335, 340 pounds, and 
gone three straight games he's not the guy that you're without a sack, his longest fighting first. He's the guyslump in three years. that's coming down on you, so Minnesota also was on a two­you better have you some 
game losing streak, and its rocks in your pockets, or be run defense was 27th in the able to move real quick."NFL. And Ball doesn't have any 
Since Ball arrived, Randle illusions about which stylehas 3 1/2 sacks and a fumble suits him best. recovery, the Vikings have a "I have to stick with the 
two-game winning streak and rocks," he chuckled. "That 
their run defense has improved to 23rd. 
Any connection? 

"I hope so," coach Dennis Green said Wednesday. "Jerry's been on the field when we had some big plays. He was on the field (at Arizona on Sunday} when we had the fumble recovery. He was on the field when we had the sacks. He's a space eater, and that's really what we've been looking for." 
Now the Vikings (4-2} are gives me my anchor." 
Ball played six plays in his first game, against Philadelphia on Sept. 28, get­ting two tackles for no gain. He was in for about 17 plays last weekend against the Cardinals. Although Jason Fisk remains the starter, at least for the time being, Green 
-~
said Ball's role will grow a lit­tle more when Carolina visits the Metrodome this Sunday. 
The slumping Panthers (2-3} figure to be determined to run the ball. making Ball's pres­

Youeanget 
at our ATM! 
Just need afew bucks? 1st Source Bank has you covered. Check out our Resource Center ATM conve­niently located in the Hesburgh library basement. 
Grab your funds quickly with no additionalfoes ifyou have a1st SourceResource® orResourcePlus® card Or you can use any other bank card honored by the worldwide CIRRUS Network. 
Other 1st Source locations-SaintMary's Haggar College Center, U.S. 31 at Cleveland, U.S. 23 at Iron­wood-dispense $lOs and $20s, so there are lots of places around campus to cash in fast! 
1!111111150UPCe® 
liiiiBank 
Your partners from the first<B' 
Member FDIC 

ence in the middle of Minnesota's defensive line even more vital. 
"I think they will press our running defense as much as anybody we've faced all year," Green said. 
And when quarterback Steve Beuerlein, who has replaced Kerry Collins as Carolina's starter, drops back, the Vikings hope Ball can con­tinue to tangle with at least two blockers. That will free Randle, whose 5 1/2 sacks are tied for third in the NFL. 
Randle, back to being his usual disruptive self on the field, said there is no coinci­dence that his production has risen since Ball came to town. 
"Teams just can't sit and block me," Randle said. "They know when Jerry comes in the game they have to make adjustments for him being in there." 
That's not the only attention the 32-year-old Ball has taken away from Randle, who at age 29 has been with the Vikings longer than any current play­er except guard Randall McDaniel. 
"It's good to be around somebody who's older than I am in here," Randle quipped. "The other guys can pick on 
h. ..
1m. 


• MAJOR lEAGUE BASEBALL 
Glavine tosses win, ties series 
The Associated Press 
ATLANTA First the Atlanta Braves got mad. Then they got even. 
Tom Glavine pitched shutout ball into the eighth inning, Chipper Jones and Ryan Klesko homered and the Braves caught everything in outplaying the upstart Florida Marlins in all phases, winning 7-1 Wednesday to tie the NL cham­pionship series at one game apiece. 
Angry at their own sloppy showing in the opener, the Braves bounced back in sharp fashion, looking every bit like the team that's been boss in the NL throughout the 1990s. 
The Marlins lost for the first time in their young postseason history. They looked bad from the beginning, too-Gold Glove catcher Charles Johnson made his first error of the season on Kenny Lofton's leadoff bunt, and Alex Fernandez lasted just 2 2-3 innings in his shortest start since 1995. 
Now, after their first setback in five playoff games, it will be the Marlins' turn to prove they can recover from such a lousy loss. Game 3 will be Friday night at Miami when rookie Tony Saunders, 3-0 against Atlanta this year, faces John Smoltz. 
Glavine did his best to restore the Braves' pitching promi­nence, allowing three hits in 7 2-3 innings. He retired the first nine batters and, with an early 5-0 lead to work with, cruised until Devon White's RBI double with two outs in the eighth -a play, by the way, on which White was foolishly thrown out trying to stretch it into a triple. 
Relievers Mike Cather and Mark Wohlers completed the three-hitter. 
Atlanta's fielders, meanwhile, had a return to respectability. A day after several mistakes made all five runs off Greg Maddux unearned in a 5-3 loss, the four players guilty of the misplays -Jones, Klesko, Fred McGriff and Lofton -each turned in neat grabs. 
Klesko and Jones each home­red for the second straight day. Jones drove in three runs with three hits, while Keith Lockhart had three hits and scored three times. 
Fernandez, one of several key players the Marlins imported in the offseason to beat the Braves, was 2-0 against them this year. But he was tagged for six hits in his earliest exit since going 2 2-3 innings for the Chicago White Sox on May 25, 1995. 
All in all, these Braves looked very similar to the ones who, stung early by St. Louis last fall in the NLCS, surged back to outscore the Cardinals 32-1 to win the final three games and the seven-game series. 
It took only one inning in this game to see that all the omens were in Atlanta's favor, as was the scoreboard. 
After Jones and Lofton had no trouble making plays in the top of the first, Lofton opened the bottom half with a bunt to the left side of the plate that Johnson reached quickly. But he threw low past first base on a play scored as a single and an error. 
Johnson had gone 175 games since June 23, 1996, without an error, and set a major league record for catchers this year for most consecutive games (123) in a season without a miscue. 
The Marlins, who did not make an error in Game 1 and never trailed, fell behind when Lockhart followed with a triple off the wall in right-center. Two outs later, Klesko stood at home plate and watched his high drive sail halfway up the right-field stands for his eighth postseason homer and a 3-0 lead. 
Lockhart, playing in place of injured second baseman Mark Lemke, singled and scored on Jones' seventh postseason home run in the third. Lockhart doubled in the seventh off Felix Heredia, Jones hit an RBI single and Javy Lopez had a sacrifice fly for a 7-0 lead. 
CHAPELHILL, N.C. 
North Carolina has called a Thursd~;ty news conterenee concerning the tnen's basket· ball program and speculation centered on the possible retirement of eoach Dean Smith, the sport's. winningest coach. · Sports information director Steve Kirschner refused to give details about the 2 p.tn. news Conference; saying only that the school planned a "maJor" announcement." He would hot cotnml!nt when asked whether it concerned Smith; 
·nowever,.the Ba,sketball Thnes, a Rochester, Mich.­based monthly newspaper, cited unld!lntified sources close to the· school in report­ing that Smith will step down immediately. 
It reported that assistants Phil Ford or Bill Guthridge would become interim head coach. 
Thursday, October 9, 1997 
assistant for 31 seasons and. has turned down a number of head coaching offers .. 
The 66-year-old Smith, who has coached the Tar Heels for 36 seasons, has saiq for years he would deci({e before the start of practice each year whether to retire. North Carolina begins practice Oct. 18. 
Smith said earlier this year he planned to honor his con­tractthrough2001. 
"I take each year as it comes," Smith said in March, "and I won't make that deci­sion in April, because every April I am probably (tired). So, you wait to see how excit­ed you are in August. For 36 years I guess I've been excit­ed in August and September. If that ever changed up until 2001 then I would make that decision." 
Last year's Final Four appearance was Smith's 11th. He won national titles in 1982 and 1993. 


BOOK SEARCH 
• 
Used, rare and out-of-print books 

• 
Initial cost of $2.00 

• 
Nationally • circulated ad 

• 
Success rate of 50% 

• 
Time Required: 2 months 


ERASMUS BOOKS 
Open noon to six Tuesday through Sunday 1027 E. Wayne South Bend, IN 46617 
(219) 232-8444 

9 P.M -.MIDNIGHT 
lMtmcm~~ §@em~ m.~JP~rr 
Over 40 years of experience Ortho-Specialist Fix any type leather Quick Service • Reasonable 
.---------------~--, 
Open: 8-6 Mon-Fri Notre Dame 8-3 Sat 1025 E.Madison St. 288-6211 
THURSDAY COLLEGE IGHTS 
OCTOBER 9TH FEATURING 
SHOOTING CUPID 
(S PCS. BAND) 
Doors open 8:00 p.m. 21 and over with proper ID's $2.00 with College ID -$4.00 without Off Duty Uniform Police Security ­Lighted Parking 
Save $1.00 with this ad before 11:00 pm 
The Stroke Foundation presents Fr. Benedict Ashley, O.P. 
Fr. Ashley is a priest of the Dominican Order, Chicago Province. At present he is Emeritus Professor of Moral Theology at the Aquinas Institute and an Adjunct Professor at the Center for Bioethics, St. Louis University, St. Seminary. He serves as a consultant for the Committee on Doctrine of the National Conference of Catholic Bishops, is a Senior Fellow of the Pope John Center of Medical Ethics, Boston, and has engaged in the Courage ministry to homosexual persons. Fr. Ashley's numerous publications 
include: Theologies of the Body: Humanist and Christian, Spiritual Direction in the Dominican Tradition, and Justice in the Church: Gender and Participation. 
Fr. Ashley will speak on Catholic teaching on sexuality, the theology that supports this teaching, and why understanding this is necessary for understanding Church teaching on homosexuality. He hopes that his lecture will contribute to the campus debate regarding homosexuality. 
TONIGHT1 
DeBartolo Hall, Room 138 • 4:30 p.m. 


-----------~---------~~---­
Thursday, October 9, 1997 The Observer· PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 15 
You don F t need a PhD 
©1997 Hotmail. All Rights Reserved 

to figure this one out: 
wefre offering free email for life~ Email you can retrieve from any computer with Internet access, anywhere in the ' worldm Hotmail lets you 
-I 
choose your own person­alized email address where your friends can find you long after you've left 
campus~~~· 
There are no strings, no fine print., 
CLEVER METAPHOR FOR LONGEVITY? OR JUST A REALLY CRYPTIC WAY TO ADVERTISE FREE EMAIL FOR LIFE? 
l 
l 
I 
I
I I I I I I I I I I 
I l 
I 
I I I I I I I 
' 
' 
I 
and no need to rush 
because this offer will 
be around for a long, 
long time$ To sign up, 
visit us at www-hotmail-com 
~ 
.,._ 
-
.-. 
hotmaiiTM 
The World's Free Web-Based Email 
... 

·------------~-·---------·~-----.....---~--..~-~~~--~---­
page 16 The Observer • SPORTS Thursday, October 9, 1997 

Opponent injuries play to Knicks' advantage 
The Associated Press 
PURCHASE, N.Y. 

Scottie Pippen is out for two to three months and Alonzo Mourning will be sidelined, too. 
This is a good thing, it would seem, for the 'New York Knicks. Problem is, they don't see it that way. 
"Chicago absolutely will not be affected at all," coach Jeff Van Gundy said Wednesday. "Pippen is a great player, but the only guy on that team that has an effect on winning or los­ing is (Michael) Jordan. That's it." 
If Van Gundy and his players are privately high-flving each other over a Pippen-and Mourning-free start to the sea­son. they weren't letting on during their first full day in New York after training camp in Charleston. S.C. 
Pippen had surgery in New York on Monday on his left foot. Mourning is out until at least mid-December following surgery for a partially torn ten­don in his left knee. 
Chicago and Miami are the two teams that finished ahead of New York in the Eastern Conference last season. So it stands to reason the Knicks have an excellent opportunity to be the team to catch in the East. 
"If we start thinking that way, then we'll take easy," guard Chris Childs said. "And you can't take a deep breath. 
We can only concern ourselves with how the Knicks play." 
Added Larry Johnson: "We can't relax at all. Jeff already told us this. We don't have to worry about what's happening around the league." 
Van Gundy and general man­ager Ernie Grunfeld maintain that Chicago remains a threat to win 70 games. 
"We don't need Scottie Pippen's injury to inspire us. We should be inspired any­way," Grunfeld said. "They still have a formidable club. they made a nice pickup in Scottie Burrell and we'll have to wait and see. 
"Being the veteran team that they are, they might want to use this as motivation for the other guys -hold the fort down until Scottie gets back and then peak into the end of the season and the playoffs." 
And it's Jordan who will be there while Pippen is on the mend. 
Bulls need Jordan to step up 
The Associated Press 
"We know what Michael's going to do with Scottie out," DEERFIELD, Ill. said Toni Kukoc, who mightThe biggest problem with start in Pippen's place at small 
Scottie Pippen's injury is not forward. "lie is not a man who that the Chicago Bulls might is going to let down. Even if lose too many games but that he's by himself on the court ­Michael Jordan might expend one against five-he's going to 
too much energy. try to win." 
"Twenty percent of our scor­That's a wonderful character­ing is off the floor. Someone istic, but it worries Jackson. else is going to have to fill it The coach wants Jordan to be up," coach Phil Jackson said healthy and fresh next spring, 
Wednesday, the day after the team announced that Pippen had undergone foot surgery and will miss up to three months. 
"And if Michael has to take it up, it's going to put a lot of pressure on him to play physi­cally tired. do more things at the beginning or middle part of the game and not sav1~ his efforts for the end ... when we need the critical points he gives us." 
Jordan, the nine-time NBA scoring champion and four­time league MVP, reseuts loss­es, regardless of how meaning­less a regular-season game might be. 
402 E.Madison South Bend 
23-0-S-C-A-R (236-7227) 

when the Bulls go for their third consecutive NBA title and sixth in eight years. And if it means sacrificing some victo­ries in November and December -and, perhaps, home court advantage in the playoffs -so be it. 
It all could add up to a tough first couple of months for the Bulls, who used fast starts to go 72-10 and 69-13 the last two seasons. 

Hurry! Offer Expires 
Place customizable date here 
Have you signed up for the MCAT Test Drive? 


1·800-KAP·TEST www.kaplan.com 
•MCAT is a registered trademark of the Association of American Medical Colleges 

Delivering a Difference! SERVICE & MORE.! 


_, 
From 9 pm to 10 pm from Monday through Thursday (in October) the price of two large is the same as the time you call. Small Sandwiches, only $2.79, or grab a large for only $4.99 
Start by choosing two of these:  Then top it off with Free extras:  
Ham  Lettuce, Tomatoes,  
Thrkey  Onions, Green Peppers,  
Salami  Mushrooms, Jalapenos,  
Pepperoni  Cucumbers,  
Beef Strips  Mayonnaise, Mustard,  
Chicken Strips  Olive Oil, Vinegar,  
Bacon Strips  Garlic Spread,  
Meatballs  Marinara Sauce,  
American, Swiss, Cheddar  Parmesan Cheese,  
or Mozzarella Cheese  Salt, Pepper  

Wolfie' s serves SANDWICHES served on loaves that are baked FRESH daily!! 

_; 
Thursday, October 9, 1997 The Observer • SPORTS page 17 
-

• MAJOR lEAGUE BASEBAll 
Saint There will 
Pitching dominates ALCS, Indians 
al track meeu:ug:.J;OJiaY 
p,m. in the · a A 
facility. Please call the 
Mary's athletic _department 
interested but cannot attend.. 
Notre Dame Martial Institute ....;.;;Tae kWon do jujitsu practice for beginne will take place from 4 to 
p.m. 
on Thursdays and 6 to 8 

p.m. 
on Sundays in Room 218 Rockne Memorial. All are welcome. 


Field Hockey -Practice · will be on Mondays and 
Taking Applications for Fall '98 and January '98 
~i·Furnishlc~ntiat···· 
• 
All utilities included . 

• 
Indoor pooJJspa 

• 
Tennis, volleyball, & ;""';basketballcourts 


·wmt'~~:< ..,\,,,,..:.. ;,,:,~,.,..,,,:':-· .:=:.,., ..::··::·=.=·:·...... ·. ·.· ·· ·· =·= '; 
£very Thursday 

All ,You,Can,Eat 
Pizza & Pasta for 
$5.® 
~~·\ 8·30 p.m. • 
~.. • 6:00p.m.· · 
~0 
The Associated Press 
BALTIMORE Hey, the American League has great pitchers, too. 
Scott Erickson shut down Cleveland on just four hits over eight innings, and Brady Anderson and Roberto Alomar homered Wednesday night to lead the Baltimore Orioles over the Indians 3-0 in the opener of the AL championship series. 
With all the attention focused on the superb starters of Atlanta and Florida, pitchers in the AL series have been over­looked. Erickson managed something no NL pitcher has accomplished, carrying Baltimore to the first shutout in this year's postseason. 
Winless in seven postseason starts before beating Seattle last week, Erickson got 14 outs on grounders and struck out three, and Randy Myers fol­lowed with a perfect ninth, extending the Indians' scoreless streak to 13 innings. 
Anderson, meanwhile, opened the series exactly the same way he began the Indians-Orioles matchup in last year's playoffs -with a home run. 
And Alomar, whose 12th­inning homer in Game 4 won 

fAk' 8Aek t(., 
Nis/.t... 
~j~ 

Join us in a Candlelight Walk to Dalloways on Sunday, October 12'h beginning at Stonehenge at 6pm. 
)I Skalcoholics will be joining us at Dalloways at 8pm. j. 
~Iffa. wriM, WN tlutf(Pt~. ~ 



last year's series clincher, hit a two-run shot in the third off loser Chad Ogea. 
Anderson also made a great defensive play, leaping to catch Manny Ramirez's first-inning shot, headed for a home run above the 7 -foot wall in right­center. 
Baltimore, seeking its first AL pennant since 1983, will try to take a 2-0 lead Thursday night when Jimmy Key pitches against Charles Nagy of the Indians. 
Erickson, making his first appearance against Cleveland this year. walked none and allowed just the singles to David Justice in the second, Bip Roberts in the third, Marquis Grissom in the sixth and Matt 
-
Williams in the eighth. 
Justice was stranded at first, Roberts was left at third. Grissom was erased when Roberts lined into a double play and Williams was rubbed out when Sandy Alomar hit a comebacker that Erickson turned into a double play. 
On a night that felt like sum­mer-the game-time tempera­ture was 75 -Anderson showed flashes of his 1996 form, when he hit 50 homers and set a major league record with 12 leading off games. 
On Ogea's very first pitch, he crushed the ball over the 25­foot scoreboar·d in right field. Last year, he had opened the first-round series with a homer off Nagy. 
Anderson doubled up the left­
-
center field gap in the third and Alomar followed with a homer nearly to the same spot as Anderson's. 
Ogea, 5-2 against the Orioles coming in, didn't get into much· trouble except for the homers, allowing six hits in six innings, striking out three and walking two. · 
®rn ~i!mcfl®rnil~ 
-
prepare for Spring e will begin returning ks to the publishers October 10, 1997. "'· 
book you still need, 
...,_
you to purchase it n as possible. 
-
Thank you 

Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore 
... 


----~--~----------------~­
page 18 The Observer • SPORTS Thursday, October 9, 1997 
1\len's Soccer Bat. Oct. 11th vs. Syracuse 
7:30pm 

• SAINT MARY'S SOCCER 
-
Saint Mary's loses to Kalamazoo 
By LYNETTE MALECKI Sports Writer 
The sun was shining brightly with blue skies overhead as the SMC soccer team took the field Tuesday afternoon in their fourth home game of the sea­son. A win was not meant to be however, as Kalamazoo, a lead­ing team in the MIAA division, won 8-0. This brings the Belles' record to 4-10-0. 
Kalamazoo's offense attacked the Belles during the first half, dominating ball control. By the end of the first half Kalamazoo had scored three times. The second half found the Belles' offense and defense continuing to struggle. This allowed Kalamazoo to score five more
-
unanswered points. Kalamazoo was able to gain possession of most of the 50/50 balls through their determina­tion and aggression. Unfortunately, the Belles were unable to counteract Kalamazoo's intensity level. One reason the Belles may have had difficulty was position changes made for the game to 
CJ11e Societyfor CJ/uman CJ?!source [}(anauement & tfie [}(anauement -4_ssociation wou(d fike to invite everyone to attend the. .. 
Donnelly Lecture Series in
-
Participatory Management 
········~ 
Dr. Steven Kerr 
General Electric 
"Developing Leaders for the 21st Century" 
-
········~ 
Friday October 10 12:00--1:15 p.m. 
Jordan Auditorium College of Business Administration 
Hockay 
Fl.~~ lOth 
-
vs. westan ontali.o 7:00pm 
-

• SAINT MARY'S INTRAMURAL FOOTBALL 
Belles take to the intramural gridiron 
By ANGELA OLSEN mostly of juniors and T2, all Saint Mary's Sports Editor freshman, will face off in a surely aggressive game. Out for 
The success of Saint Mary's Blood 2 are the defending intramurals this year is evi­champions. "This year's team dent. Participation has is comprised of the same play­increased from last year and ers and a few more," said those that are involved are junior Kelly Vanoverbeke. excited about competing. Although T2's team is com­Looking at the players assem­prised of all freshman, many of bled on the library green one them played powder puff foot­can see the spirit. These ball in high school. women are ready to play a T2's ride to the final came good football game and have with wins over Holy Cross some fun in the beautiful fall Hell's Angels and the 4th Floor weather. Fighters. Out For Blood 2 
Saint Mary's intramurals has defeated Bob Davie's Girls in been around for a long time, the first round and We Don't but this year in particular has Heally Play Football in the sec­been marked with increased ond round. student involvement. "All want For many participants intra­to play and get outside," said murals is a way to participate Saint Mary's assistant athletic in sports without the daily com­director Katie Cromer. "This mitment that varsity sports year has been the best year." requires. "Intramurals are 
Tonight at 5 p.m. the champi­taken seriously," commented onship match of the Flag Cromer. "I see many players · Football Tournament will be just as competitive as our ath­played on the library green. Out For Blood 2, comprised 
see SMC I page 12 

compensate for ill and injured players. 
Despite Tuesday's loss, the Belles have made many improvements since the start of the season and are optimistic. 
"We are starting to play as a team and have gotten use to each other's playing styles," said junior midfielder Mary Hoffmann. 
The Belles have a tough weekend ahead of them with back to back home games. 
Saturday the Belles play Albion College at noon. This promises to be an emotional game as Albion seeks revenge after last years 1-0 loss to Saint Mary's. Sunday they face Wisconsin-Whitewater at 1 
p.m. The Belles will need to improve movement on the offense as well as ball control in order to defeat their oppo­nents. 

Free admission to all students! 
Thursday, October 9, 1997 
The Observer • TODAY page 19 
-

MEN ABOUT CAMPUS 
DAN SULLIVAN 
·' ;:;r1;\<'ifL f<YAN ,)·UUJ\/;1t\ 
/10M NoT IN J 
FRoAI ,. OF /HE
You APoLO~JZE To mosE P<oPLE REAJ.£RS t _
rHE,V COME avE II. HtRE AND C.Lq/'1 THi':> DoRM Ro~t1 I ~~" /'1EAtJ If 1"\ISTER! 11 ~ v'L3,~ 
TIME you C,REW uP. NOW ~.r"' C,E T ovER HrRE AND PIJ I 'g/ A~,.iAY !HIS uNDE'P.vJEAR , \fffl.' r JvS1 FoLDED· AND I>ON TN~
JVST vJAi> JIIE/"1 UP IN yo~R 
t:>RAw£R' r swtAR! YovRE fvJE!Vn YEARS OLI>' IAKf , N SaM• R£SPotJSIBILJT1. ~ ' ~H£ tv wAS i H£ LAST [1/V!E \ ! 
MOTHER GOOSE & GRIMM 
~t.VER! t'~ fREE.!
COT"\£. OUT OF 
THERE, "'ltc£. ~ 'fOU C~N'T M~~E f"\E ,.....,,_,..._.,.....,....~ WE. KNOW '<OU'RE 
GO B~CK TO A
~'-L.:....l...J....:l TELECOMMUTING~ 
CU61CLE !!
"\ 
CROSSWORD ACROSS 29 Gibbons on TV 53 Cream puff 
1 Harper on the 
30 Roscoe 55"Coming bookshelf 31 Georgia-Home" co-star 4 Procrastinator's 33--demer 
56 Sneaky time of action 59 Member of the
34 Going on and 14 Trouble on and ... 
familia 60 They may make 15 Some 36 Jack and Jill's you feelPythagoreans burden 18-Across11 Certain ed. of 40 Annoy 
&1 Mr. Cat
the Bible 41 Put out &2 Desperate18 Festive 42 Taking after strategy19 Midgard 43 Candied &3 Stuff of mineserpent's slayer 46 1969 Three Dog
21 Cafeteria-goers 
Night hit 22 Salt DOWN
47 Is not on the 23 "If I-Rich level 1 Definitive
Man" 
49 Genre of statement25 It comes easily 46-Across 2 "Take your to hand 50 Slays, in slang choice" 

2& Abominable 51 Beginning 3 Pizarro's quest Snowman 
52"Lady­4Fonddu-,

21 Rigorous tests Train" (1945 Wis. 
28 Advantages film) 
5 Gentleman of the court &In need of 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
repentance 7 Musical interval 29 DockedaSaunters 32 Publicity
9 Prologue ~-'-'-+~-:-t:-o-1 10 Annuaire 33 West of listings Hollywood 

11 Actress 35 Shaving wound 46 Recently 57 PrintThurman 3& 1988 Connery measures12 Guinea pig, in a film, with "The" 48 Perot follower: 
way Abbr. 58 August hrs. 
37 Unnatural high 
~c,:.+:'=+=-t=-~ 13 Synthet i c 
38 Intentionally
..:,.:+.~=--..,. 1& Site of ancient 
concealed Answers to any three clues in this puzzlePalmyra are available by touch-tone phone: 39 1-Across or 
~...~=+;:+=-.-!~=+:::4 20 Luth. teaching, 
1-900-420-5656 (75¢ per minute).
55-Across, e.g. 
e.g. 

Annual subscriptions are available for the41 Babies
B-=+7+.::-1 24 Yearn best of Sunday crosswords from the last L.;.....L~__.__, 26 Cry out loud 43 Get together 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Yes my darlings, 
S. UB. wants to see all of If Iwin, you will have to take me to see
you cuties this Thursday 
"My Best Friend's
@!0:30p.m. for the 
Wedding!!"
wedding event of the ye 
MvBe 
$2@ Cus 
' I 
MIKE PETERS 
SCOTT ADAMS 
~ 
u 
441970's 50 Yellowish Cambodian 
53 Formerly,
leader 
formerly 45 -National 
54 Caboose,
Park, Maine figuratively 
YOUR HOROSCOPE Aries: 
plishments in writing. If you're accustomed to Libra: an easy time, you may have When feeling weepy and 
to go cold turkey today. self-absorbedtoday, Career problems crash remember that we're all down on you, leaving no water. A larger awareness time for adjustment or helps defuse possible con­escape. flict with authority. 
Taurus: Scorpio: Every action yields profit, This is a day to give 
whether material or spiri­power to the people and tuaL Friendships or rela­see what thev do with it. A tionships begun today defiant moo.d transforms could last a lifetime. into thf' spirit of motivation. 
Gemini: 
Sagittarius: People around you are Whatever gets you 
playing mind games today, through the night is com­and no one has bothered to pletely acceptable, as long explain the rules of engage­as you are discreet when 
ment. Take notes about discussing it. what happens, whether Capricorn: your intention is defensive Everyone admires you for or offensive. 
your loyalty and dedication. Cancer: 
Time proves you right once 
Coming home at the end again. of the day feels like the Aquarius: right thing to do, no matter Instant karma seems to 
what kind of reception have caught up with you awaits you. today. Recognize the conse­Leo: 
quences of your actions 
It seems to be cleanup while there is still time to time, and today you have reverse them. been nominated head jani­Pisces: tor. You might begin with Today you find it easy to cleaning up your own act. imagine a perfect world, 
Virgo: even if you are not yet You are a bit of a process there. Work your connec­Uunkie today, fascinated by tions among the rich and 
watching the wheels go powerful to get what you round. Put your accom-need. 
• OF INTEREST 
Ho ··· :r;oss Associates will hold two information 
.. se,s,s to4ay at.~~¢ Center for $ocial Concerns at 4 and· p.m. Holy Cross Associates is a post-gradu­ate setyjce program With placements in the U.lfo and 
Chile. ' 
Arts. and Letters Career Day! The Career & Plac~m~ntS¢rvic~s is sponsoring its annual FaU Arts ~tn~ l-ettl}rs (iareet ~if~ •today from 11 a.m. to 4 p.m. 
in the lower level .of the Center for Continuing 
Education. All majors are welcome. 
General Electric Company's vice president of lead­ership, Steven Kerr, is speaking tomorrow in COBA's Jorda~ A~qitotiqrrt~ ... The lecture, ;:Developing Leaders for the 21st Century,~ is scheduled to start at noon. 
Rev. Richard McCormick will be speaking today at 
7:30 p.m. in the lounge of the Hesburgh Library. McCormick will be examining "Dissent in the Church: Loyalty or~iability?"The talk is sponsored by the Committe.e qn ND's Position on the Ordination of
Women. · · · · · 
•MENU 
Notre·•oamer,······ 
Saint Mary's 
North London Broil Roast Pork Loin Spinach Turnover Grilled Redfish Red Skinned Potatoes Neapolitan Spaghetti 
.J'. 
South Grilled Chicken Sandwich Grilled Redfish Neapo!itan Spaghetti 
Wanted: Reporters, photographers, 
-
and editors. Join The Observer staff. 
9.. 12 A.M @ Lafun 
-
join us with a melodic tune 
+COFFEE 
(cafflne rush 
ladles and gents!) 
-

-
SPORTS 
page 20 Thursday, October 9, 1997 

Freshman foward Erikson helps fill offensive void 
Meotis Erikson takes opposition by storm, netting eight goals 
By ALLISON KRILLA Sports Writer 
When the Notre Dame women's soc­cer team lost its all-time scoring leader. midfielder Cindy Daws, and talented forward Amy VanLaecke to graduation, head coach Chris Petrucelli saw the 
.. immediate need to fill the holes vacated by these two leaders and others who had helped bring the program to the forefront of college soccer. Petrucelli. the 1996 Big East coach of the year, promptly recruited a talented crop of freshmen to fill the void. The result has been an undefeated 11-0-1 record and dreams of another Big East conference title and national champi­onship run. Freshman forward Meotis Erikson from Kennewick, Wash., has been one of the standout performers for the class of2001. "I felt coming in tfiat I would con­tribute in some way to the team," said Erikson. "We have a strong (freshman) class, so I didn't feel anything was on my shoulders." Despite a slow start. Erikson has
:--. 

• MEI\fs SoccER 

Despite lack of limelight, 
ND cross country squads 
turn in notable finishes 
By ERIK KUSHTO SportS Writer 
The Notre Dame men's and women's cross country teams may be two of the best teams that you have never heard of. 
Despite their relative lack of publicity on cam­
The Observer/Brandon Candura 
pus, the national press has picked up on the 
The Irish hope to stay ahead of their opposition as they take on 
Irish. USA Today featured sophomore. All­
Syracuse this Friday. 
American Joanna Deeter in its Oct. 8 edition. The two teams have competed well without the local coverage, quietly collecting live lirst place linishes between them and confidently looking 
,.__ Men•s Soccer Poll 

1 Indiana 2 UCLA 
3 Florida 
4 
5 St. 
6

.. 
7 
8 
9 
10 11 12 13 14 15 16

-
17 18 19 20 

-
~­
been on a scoring tear of late, picking up three points in Notre Dame's 2-0 victory over Boston College last Sunday, netting one goal and dishing out an assist. 
The goal was Erikson's eighth on the year and sixth in the last four games, a statistic that led to Big East rookie of the week honors for the 1996 National Soccer Coaches Association of America National Player of the Year. 
"Meotis brings us the ability to score goals and hold onto the ball," said Petrucelli. "She questioned herself early on.... It just took her to believe in herself and realize that she can com­pete at this level." 
But the adjustment to collegiate level soccer was not the most difficult for Erikson, who was home-schooled until ninth grade. 
''I'm really close to my family, and I get really homesick sometimes," said Erikson. ''I'm now just starting to get my head screwed on straight. Slowly but surely, I'm getting used to things; it's getting used to school, being away from my family and a whole new soccer environment." 
For Erikson, a love of athletics and competition run in the family. 
At Kamiakin High School, where Erikson lettered in soccer, basketball and track, her mom Christine coached 

The Observer/Brandon Candura 

Meotis Erikson has helped the Irish race ahead of the opposition and remain on top of see W. SOCCER I page 12 the Big East conference. 
• CROSS COUNTRY 
Irish harriers run up big gains 

. 
411 ... 
at Georgetown, \~ October II, II a.m. 
\t vs. Syracuse, 
•
s(N
% M Ocrober II, 7:30 p.m. 
···4v 
at Boston College, @ October II, 2 p.m. 
S~tt 
forward to rest of the season. 
"So far it's been a pretty interesting season," said Irish coach Joseph Piane. "From the women's point of view, the first meet of the year they beat a team that was ranked 15th or 16th in the country in Penn State and they go off and win the National Catholic meet very handily, so that is a great start for them. They placed second in the adidas/Notre Dame Invitational, and one of our top three runners didn't run because she was injured. The future looks very bright for [the women]" 
The men's cross country team had some problems at home, but looks equally capable of success. 
"The men started off well this year, winning the [first] meet, handily, and then winning the National Catholic meet with seven of the top eight finishes, crushing the lield," said Pian e. "We slipped at the Notre~ Dame Invitational, [because we] did not run well. Take nothing away from Eastern Michigan, they beat us fair and square by live points. They ran very well. 
• 
· vs. Western Ontario, 
Tomorrow, 7 p.m. Swimming at NO Relays, Tomorrow, 4 p.m. 
Soccer vs. Albion College, 
October II, 12 p.m. Volleyball at Kalamazoo, October II, I p.m . 

Courtesy of Notre Dame Sports Information Senior All-American Jason Rexing hopes Irish cross-country will go the distance this season. 
But we will beat them, I am very confident, this season when we meet them at the NCAA district meet." 
Though they have made strides so far, more improvement is needed. 
"The women have run pretty solid all year long. After the first meet, .Joanna Deeter defi­nitely had improvement. She was our fourth gal at our first meet and she moved up to our No. 1 gal by the last meet," said Piane. "On the men's part, we have pretty much run the same race all three times, so its not a whole lot of 
see XCOUNTRY I page 12 
•SMC Soccer
Q) 
'C see page 18
•• •NBA previews 
see page 16
JS ~ 

.. 


