

Thursday, December 4, 1997 • Vol. XXXI No. 64 THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
• STUDENT SENATE 
Senators question Lingenfelser about petition 
and dealt with by the [Student Members of the Student Senate questioned student Jeremy Lingenfelser about his petition to recall student Scholastic Magazine, as a source Senate] Ethics Committee," said body president Matt Griffin yesterday. A.J. Boyd, pictured second from left, clarified his stand on the issue. was also a reason for skepticism. Ethics Committee member Pat "My impression is that most
and has a clean slate. Why are dent body." ing the stuqents."
Coyle. questioning Lingenfelser students don't know much about
you still pushing for the removal "You arc missing the will of Although Lingenfelser said 
on the rationale behind the peti­the situation beyond what the
of the president if he has shown the students," Lingenfelser told that he "had the 15 percent" of
tion. "Most of the problems of Gipper says," said Lauren
he has corrected his ways?" the senate. "Students are over-student signatures on the peti­
real substance occurred at the Herring, senator from
Lingenfelser responded by whelmingly unsatisfied and you tion that are required for a
beginning of the year. Since Cavanaugh Hall. "I don't think
reiterating that he had a "large are not doing a sufficient job recall election to be held, he did
then, [Griffin] has been talked to 
amount of support from the stu-because you are not represent-not formally present the petition 
see SENATE I page 4 

Esteemed professor 

l· 
~ ; 
I 
; 
:... 
i 

dies during holiday 
By KRISTI KUTSCH Sporleder. "There is no ques­News Wrirer tion about that." "He had a particular pres­
Brian Crumlish was a profes­ence about himself, and it was sor, architect and friend, but a pleasant opportunity to be he was also an inspiration. able to work with him," 
Crumlish, age 69, died of a Sporleder added. heart attack Thomas Smith, professor and Nov. 27, on chair of the architecture Thanksgiving department, recounted a simi­Day. He lar relationship with Crumlish. served the "He was a master of the tech­Notre Dame nical aspect of architecture," community Smith said. "He respected his for 33 years, students as they co-taught with arriving at him." the School of Crumlish was regarded as an Architecture esteemed professor as well as a in 1964. successful architect. At the 
As a professor in the School time of his death, he was of Architecture, he taught stu­engaged in a partnership with dents in all five levels of the his son, Brendan, at the archi­program. The classes he taught tecture firm of Crumlish and were Design Thesis, Acoustics Crumlish in South Bend. and Illumination, Building Crumlish also helped to Technology and Architectural design the Queen of Peace Sketching. Church and Bible Church in 
Donald Sporleder, professor Mishawaka, the St. Pius Church in the School of Architecture, in Granger, the College of knew Crumlish well. The two Architecture complex at Ball were childhood friends, as well State University, as well as ren­as partners in an architecture ovations to the University Club firm for 25 years. 
"He inspired many," said see CRUMLISH I page 4 

Security tries to find solutions to remedy damage 
By MICHELLE KRUPA Safety. Associare News Ediror "The company analyzed the paint and came up with three or four formu­
After failed attempts to clean red las that they think will take care of the paint off campus buildings from last vandalized areas," Zerr said. Saturday's vandalism, Notre Dame offi­As for students whose cars were cials have hired a consultant company damaged with the paint, Zerr said that to formulate cleaning solvents in an several have been able to clean their attempt to get the job done. vehicles with hot, soapy water or gaso­
The private company, which was line but recommended that students go hired at the suggestion of University to local body shops if the paint does not insurance advisors, will test three or come off easily. four synthetically-produced chemical "Your best bet is to go to a body cleaners today on areas of Bond Hall shop. Our concern is that if you try to and the statue of the Sacred Heart of remove [the paint] yourself, you might Jesus on Main Quad, according to Bob Zerr, director of Risk Management and see VANDALS I page 4 





Thursday, December 4, 1997
page 2 The Observer • INSIDE 
• INSIDE COLUMN 
Home is where the heart is 
In the midst of finals Lori Allen and formals, we find 
Saint Mary's Ediror
ourselves forming 
friendships in these last 
few weeks of the semester that define what 
this whole college thing is all about. A 
fleeting home away from home. 
Home. I'd bet my tuition that each and 
every one of us could define in 30 seconds 
or less what home means to them. For most 
of us, home is that four-letter word that 
was always waiting after school with a tall 
glass of milk and some chocolate chip cook­
ies; the place that kept the light on in the 
front window after late night basketball 
practice, and let us use its closets and cor­
ners for hide-n-seek. 
Home is that place that, when we were 
out of school sick, became like our very own 
palace, not to be shared with siblings until 
at least three o'clock. Home is that place 
that thought we were still pretty after two 
body waves and a perm in seventh grade, 
and forgave us for decorating its walls with 
posters from "Teen-Beat." When nothing 
seemed to be going right, home was the 
place where it would all make sense. 
After three and a half years away from 
"home," I've finally discovered the real 
meaning of the word. 
Home is where there are no deadlines or 
papers or finals or meetings, where it's 
okay to not know where you're going to be 
in a year. It's the place that will be there 
when you return home from wherever it is 
you are going, the place that will remain 
the same no matter how much you change, 
and still love you in spite of it. 
But more importantly, most importantly, 
home is what you were, what you are, and 
what you're capable of becoming. It's the 
place that knows you best of all, knows 
every story that ever went into making you 
and will never let you forget it. Home is 
acceptance. 
When I think of home, I think of smells 
and tastes and the hands that prepared 
them; of vanilla ice cream and Golden 
Grahams, lasagna and the stuff from the 
stuffed mushrooms; of the figs from the 
backyard and the M&M's from Uncle Nick; 
of my mother's hands kneading the dough 
for Sunday dinner. 
With the family sauce simmering op the 
stove all afternoon, the entire house 
smelled of garlic and tomato and warm 
from all of the hands twisting and turning 
and sprinkling and pinching just the right 
amount of the right ingredient. 
This was and is home, the place that 
brought me here and allowed me the 
chance to see and be something else some­
where else. Home didn't get mad when I 
slowly became attached to this other place, 
and eventually called that place by its 
name. Home knew that I couldn't and 
wouldn't be home forever. 
In my short time here, this other place 
has become home, and has taught me more 
about what the word means than I ever 
imagined it would. 
It has taught me that no matter where I 
go, I will always be home because home is a 
part of me, that I will never really leave 
home, not so long as it exists and I exist. 
So long as it misses me and I miss it, I 
can always go home. 
The lJiews expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 

• TooAv's STAFF  
News  Accent  
Heather MacKenzie  Emmett Malloy  
Laura Petelle  Graphics  
Sports  Jon King  
Sarah Dylag  Production  
Viewpoint  Chris Uhart  
Eddie Llull  Lab Tech  
Colleen Gaughen  Kevin Dalum  
Saturday 31 21


The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation ~riods. The Observer is a memkr of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 




utside the Dome 
Compiled from U-Wire reports 

Michigan law school sued for discriminatory admissions 
ANN ARBOR, Mich. 
The law firm challenging the University's undergraduate admis­sions policies will file a similar suit today against the Law School. 
Barbara Grutter, who applied to the Law School in December 1996 and was denied admission to this fall's first-year class, is suing the university, alleging that the admis­sions policies discriminated against her by giving racial preferences to minority students. 
"The plantiff in this case has a very compelling case that will hold up in court," Michael Greve, executive director of the Washington D.C.­based law firm Center for Individual Rights, told The Michigan Daily yes­terday. 
CIR filed the original suit against the university's undergraduate admissions policies in October and will now represent Grutter. "Race is 

MICHIGAN 

a very substantial factor in the University of Michigan admissions," Greve said. 
Grutter, 44, graduated from Michigan State university in 1978 with a GPA of 3.81 and LSAT score of 161. For 11 years, she has run a health care information consulting business. . 
The suit claims that Grutter suf­fered humiliation, emotional dis­tress, pain and suffering and eco­nomic damages from not being admitting to the university. It also 
states that she is still willing to attend the Law School. 
The complaint, filed by CIR, names university president Lee Bollinger, law dean Jeffrey Lehman, assistant dean for law school admissions Dennis Shields, the University Board of Regents and the Law School as defendants in a class-action suit. 
Lehman said he is confident the school's admissions policy is consti­tutional. · 
"We do not use quotas," Lehman said. "We are fortunate that we have far more well-qualified applicants than we can accept each year." 
Of the 3,636 students who applied for admission to the Law School's class of 1999, 1,123 were accepted. Minority students comprise 21 per­cent of the 1999 law class. 
Bollinger said the addition of a new lawsuit does not change the core public policy issues at stake. 

• UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA Football star declared ineligible 
PHILADELPHIA, Pa. 
In the aftermath of what professors called a failed 
attempt by the athletic department to cover up a star foot­
ball player's academic ineligibility, the university faces a 
scandal that could force the team to forfeit many of its vic­
tories. The university will investigate whether athletic 
department officials tried to arrange what one history 
professor described as an "obviously inappropriate" inde­
pendent study course for fifth-year senior Mitch Marrow, 
a two-time all-Ivy League defensive tackle and pro 
prospect, after they realized his part-time status deemed 
him ineligible to compete under NCAA regulations. 
Marrow, 22, had dropped one of his three classes early in 
the fall semester due to mononucleosis, and his two class­
es gave him part-time status. 
• UNIVERSITY OF WISCONSIN AT MADISON 
UW-Madison e-mail banned from AOL 
MADISON, Wis. 
A deluge of unwanted e-mail sent from a UW-Madison 
server has led America Online to temporarily ban e-mail 
sent from that server. Jeff Savoy of DolT Production 
Services said a person from outside UW used the server to 
send a large number of "spam" e-mail to AOL users, 
prompting AOL to ban traffic from that server. "Spam is a 
tough problem to deal with," Savoy said. "This is how AOL 
chose to do it." According to Savoy, AOL should begin 
allowing e-mail from the server within the next two days. 
This recovery is possible because UW has added software 
to its servers to prevent the same situation from occurring 
again. "I am in contact with AOL, and I fully expect them 
to lift the ban," Savoy said. Even while the ban is in place, 
students have options available for sending e-mail to AOL 
addresses. Savoy said the black-listed server is only one of 
several used by UW, meaning that students can still send 
electronic messages by changing the preference settings 
in their e-mail program. 
• SOUTH BEND WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forcast AccuWeatherll> forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 
:~' .. ~~~_.... ~//"'"~ ~--............ 
! H L 
I 
·:· ·:· 
Friday 31 21
~ 
\ 
~ 
( 
Sunda,.y ~(~32 20 Mo~day _ , ~ _) 35 23 
,t..r···:j;,.,,-.~ -,_ /"'A"t,/> 
4-~-~'9@Q(f~~ 
Showers T·storms Rain Flurries Snow Ice Sunny Pl. Cloudy Cloudy Via Ass<laaled Pl'9ss Gtapl11csNet 
• 
• HARVARD UNIVERSITY 
Students vote on union-picked grapes 
· CAMBRIDGE, Mass. 

After the cancellation of a referendum planned for Nov. 21, two revisions of the ballot options, plenty of juicy debate on campus and even a grape vigil on the steps of Memorial Church, students will decide the fate of grapes at Harvard today in an ali-day referendum in all under­graduate dining halls. According to Harvard Dining Services, students will choose electronically between 'the following two ballot options as they swipe their ID cards: "YES, I believe Dining Services should serve grapes of any kind." or "NO, I believe Dining Services should not serve grapes unless and until grapes become available with a United Farm Workers (UFW) union label." Although no absentee ballots will be offered, students will be able to vote during all meals. 
• UNIVERSITY OF NEBRASKA 
Classes canceled on King's birthday 
LINCOLN, Neb. 

After hours of debate, the University of Nebraska­Lincoln Academic Senate voted 41-2 at its Tuesday meet­ing to observe Martin Luther King Jr.'s birthday on cam­pus by canceling classes. The senate voted to endorse King's birthday by instituting a set of programs, work­shops and other activities to commemorate King, and to cancel classes on that day to allow students and faculty members to attend the events. The proposal also specifies that a day in the semester will be set aside for students to make up classes that would be missed because of the holi­day. The use of the makeup class day is left to the discre­tion of the instructor. The senate amended the original proposal to specify that a day will be set aside during the semester for makeup classes other than a Saturday. Academic Senate president Jim Ford declared the propos­al an emergency issue and said he wanted to get the sense of the body. "I think the main issue that is dividing us is 
whether or not to support canceling classes," he said. 
NATIONAL WEATHER 

The AccuWeather®forec_ast for noon, Thursday, Dec. 4. 
Lines separate high temperature zones for the day. 
HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY 
Atlanta  56  35  Dallas  58  33  
Baltimore  55  36  Denver  40  12  
Baton Rouge  60  37  Honolulu  76  62  
Chicago  34  22  Indianapolis  37  26  
Columbus  38  28  Los Angeles  68  54  

• I ' ' -. -I -, ­
' ' . . ' ' . -' ' . ; \ \ ,,\\o\~\~ ·\~ 
. ~ \ \ . . .\ .. ' : ~ 

. ; ~ ' \ ' . . ' ' \
; 



Vigil t~send,wm~ssage about environment 
Thursday, December 4, 1997 

The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Panel discusses female priesthood 
ByMAITHEWQUINN 
NewsWrirer 
Tonight, the Students for Environmental Action will join over 100 university and high school environmental groups nationwide for a candle vigil in protest of the lack of U.S. leader­ship in internationaLclimate treaty negotiations. The group will meet at 7 p.m. at the Stonehenge Mall. and will pro­ceed to the campus power plant. 
The purpose of the symbolic vigil will be to send a strong mes­sage to President Clinton and Vice President Gore that their commit­ment to reducing global wa.rriiing emissions is unacceptable. 
The,Jmal day of the 160-nation climate treaty negotiations being held in Kyoto, Japan, is on Pee, 
10. The U.S. has announced the weakest position on reducing greenhouse gas emissions out ()f all participating industrialized · nations. The Q.S. proJl()sal woyld curb emissionS to the 1990 levels 
committed to 40 percent reduc· 
tion below 1990 levels by 2020. 
"Although this is indeed a show 
of political support for the reduc· 
tion of greenhouse gas emis­
sions," said Todd Dvorak, "I see it 
more importantly as a concerned 
community gathering in silent 
prayer so that wisdom and guid­
ance be granted to those entrust­
ed with th€} responsibility of safe­
.guarding our planeL '' J 
The Student Environmental 
Action Coalition, the coordinator 
ofthe nationwide vigil, claims that 
the U.S. failure to support a 
strong climate treaty will affect 
members of the global 
who are underprivileged a 
already routinely oppressed 
the qurrel}t syste!llt.of.gl() 
dependency on ,fossil fuels. 
Moreover.Jhe SEA~ claims. large 
oil.Gorporations,:wlll continue . violate human''~nvironmenta rights for e&nomic gaiJl. :th'"'W#Ik< SEAC, theJargest ·~........-=-n• 
~e 1~~:;e:1J;u~~ ~~p..,.anns,.·,"'thttn~".·.......""' .~~!~~~~l·I/Jiii~~·~,;~~~i:...,.:~~,~~ ·J 
ted to reducing its emissions percent below 1990 2010;' and the Philippines 





God's
people
need you. 

For more information on the Holy Cross one-_vear 
Candidate Program contact 
Moreau Seminary · 
Fr. Jim King. c.s.c Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-6385 

http://www.nd.edu/-vocation 
ANSWER~ 
THE CALL~
Fr. Bill Wack. esc 

By COLLEEN GAUGHEN 
News Writer 
The ordination of women into the priesthood of the Roman Catholic Church is one of the most controversial issues debated today, as a panel demonstrated in a dis­cussion held in the Hesburgh Library Auditorium last night. 
The discussion was spon­sored by the student govern· ment Gender Issues Committee and featured four panelists: Lyons rector Sister Kathleen Beatty, Professor Thomas O'Meara of the department of theology, Sister Regina Cole of the master's of divinity program, and Susie Babka, a doctoral candidate in the department of theology. 
"Women are being called by God's spirit to full ministry in the Church," Beatty open-ed. "It's not a new issue." 
Only 20 percent of practic· ing Catholics supported the ordination of women in 1980, while 60 percent are reported to support it today, according to Beatty. 
She cited several United States organizations which support inclusive ministry and the ordination of women, including Call To Action and the Women's Ordination Conference, both founded in 1976. 
"The issue with all these groups," Beatty said,"is that they are all calling for women to be incorporated at all lev­els of ministry. That's part of their call for renewal of the Church." 
Global organizations were also cited including BASIC {Brothers and Sisters in Christ), founded in Ireland in 1993, and WOW (Women's Ordination Worldwide). 
"This is not an American phenomenon as some people would like us to think," she 

emphasized. "Catholics across the globe continue to gather to pray and to act so that dia· Iogue continues and conver­sion is possible." 
The dialogue, however, was expressly forbidden by Pope John Paul II in his 1995 Letter to Women. Pope Paul VI also officially suppressed debate in his 1976 encyclical, Inter lnsignores. 
Such documents discourag­ing the ordination of women do not offer sufficient rea­sons, according to O'Meara, and the issue runs much deeper. 
"Women are being excluded from all public roles in the Church," he argued. "Over 80 percent of the ministry in the Church in the United States is done by women." 
Arguments against the ordi­nation of women, as Babka 
presented, include the fact that the Catholic Church has a 2,000 year-old tradition of ordaining only men. 
O'Meara argued that part of tradition is discussion and that because there has been no open discussion, this argu· ment is not convincing. 
Another argument against the ordination of women is that Jesus chose only men to be the 12 apostles. 
Jesus was ordained, a priestly function, by a woman, Beatty stated, and it was Mary Magdelene, a woman, who was at the Resurrection. 
Priests as images of Christ were also discussed. 
"What can be done?" was one of many questions asked following the discussion. 
"If it is not of the Spirit," Cole answered, "then it will never happen." 

Suite 
Museum Shop 
Christ~nas Sale 
Saturday, December 6~ 1997 lOAM· 5 PM 
25% to 40% off most items 

The Place for Gre~t Gifts for the Holidays! 

page 4 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS 
Senate 
continued from page 1 
people have a clear understand­ing of what is happening. Most people only have hearsay and most people don't care that much one way or another." 
Bob Chapski, senator from Alumni Hall, agreed. "Don't you think that if a majority of the students were ignorant of the issues before the petition, don't you think you need to substanti­ate the charges that are on the sheet so you are not just leading people on?" he asked Lingenfelser. 
Lingenfelser responded by saying that he thinks the charges on the petition, which portray Griffin as not fulfilling his presidential obligations as stated in the Constitution of the Student Body, "fit what the con­stitution says is impeachable." 
"I would disagree with the statement that all students are ignorant about what is going on," he said. "The Gipper isn't right all of the time but a lot of it is true. The majority [of the stu­dent body] knew about most of the issues." 
Still, members of Student Senate did not agree that basing a large portion of a petition of recall on what is printed in the Gipper was good reason to oust the student body president. 
"A lot of what you based your information on is in the Gipper, which is not a reliable source," said Rajit Basu, senator from O'Neill Hall. "If you want to give credibility to your allegations, you need to tell us your source." 
Lingenfelser refused to reveal his source inside of the Student Union, but did allude that some of his information came from members of student govern­ment. 
"There are some people sitting here among you who discussed the petition with me," Lingenfelser said. "I was not approached directly about this issue, but when I was complain­ing about something regarding Griffin in the Gipper, one of you said, 'Why don't you do some­thing about this?' I then talked to A.J. Boyd about the structure ofthe petition." 
Boyd, the chairman of the Ethics Committee and Keough Hall senator, confirmed that he had assisted Lingenfelser with the logistics of drawing up a petition. But Boyd clarified that even though he and Griffin did not concur on some Student Union issues, he was not responsible for the allegations made in the petition. 
"I only helped him [Lingenfelser] with the constitu­tional stuff," Boyd said after being asked if he was Lingenfelser's source inside the senate. "I know that there are grand conspiracy theories being drawn up about this issue. I don't want people to leave this meeting believing that the rumors of my being behind this are in any way true." 
Morrissey senator Matt Szabo, who lives in the same hall as Lingenfelser, also attested that he had nothing to do with the petition. 
"I haven't always agreed with Matt [Griffin] in the past, but I have absolutely nothing to do with this petition or signing it." 
Szabo and other members of senate motioned several times to close debate surrounding the petition because the petition had not been formally presented, and because nothing was being resolved in discussion. 
"There is nothing to discuss right now, and our position right now is just to tell people exactly what the facts are and what they aren't," said Eliza Hommel, senator from Pangborn. 
The senate will be required by the constitution to hold a recall election if the petition is pre­sented with enough valid signa­tures. Student Senate will meet next Wednesday or when Lingenfelser formally presents his petition. 
The minutes of last night's senate meeting are available at http://www. n d. edul-studegov. 
Crumlish 
continued from page 1 
on the University of Notre Dame campus. 
Crumlish used his vast knowl­edge of architecture in his teaching as well as his practice. 
Smith remembers observing one of Crumlish's classes, in which he had a six-foot wide and 12-foot tall model of a sec­tion of a wood cut. 
"He placed a lot of impor­tance on visualization," Smith said. "He really helped his stu­dents to see on a full scale." 
Alice Wesoloski, senior administrative assistant in the School of Architecture, also admired Crumlish's teaching style. 
"He [Crumlish] ·tried as hard as he could to make his classes interesting," Wesoloski said. "He made the students learn but his classes were still enjoy­able." 
Kellie Ward, a freshman architecture student, is enrolled in the architectural drawing class that Crumlish taught. 
"He was a kind-hearted man, and you could really tell that he enjoyed teaching," she said. 
Crumlish was also very patient, said Emily Schmitt, a first-year architecture student. 
"I had never really had any classes in architecture before," Schmitt admitted. "But he 
[Crumlish] was really helpful even though I didn't know what I was doing." Schmitt also recalled his interaction with students. "He really took the time to see how our other classes were going," she said. A Mass in his honor was held yesterday at 1 p.m. in the Morrissey Hall Chapel, with a reception that followed in Bond Hall. 
A memorial service will be held on Dec. 11 at St. Pius Church, in Granger. The family has suggested that memorial contributions be made to the Brian J. Crumlish Scholarship fund at Notre Dame. 
Crumlish is survived by his son, Brendan, his daughter, Ann, his wife, Ruth, and his mother, Hazel. 

Thursday, December 4, 1997 
' J. d I



\'an a s 
continued from page 1 
ruin the finish of your car. You should go to someone with some expertise in this area," he said. 
Students with damaged vehicles should also contact campus Security/Police with any evidence that might allow the department to verify information with students' insurance companies or that might aid in the investigation of the incident, according to 
Hex  Hakow,  director  of  
Security/Pol ice.  
"We've  got  some  tips,  

recovered some evidence, and we're trying to put the little pieces of the puzzle into one big piece," Rakow said. 
m~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~m 

~SPRING BREAKm 
m
CANCUN 
m
9 

ra BAYFRONT ~'J.. S Gl 
l!l 4, 6, 8 OR 10 PERSONS ·~ $ 19 ONLY 5 LEFTI ~ ~ CALINDA BEACH st!D6 '629 #1 STUDENT m 
l!l 4 PERSONS g~ HOTEL! 1!1 fa 2 OR 3 PERSONS JUST $699 each! • Gl 


Are you looking for cluster computers late at night, but your favorite cluster is closed? Don't forget that the OIT has computers available 24 hours daily in the following locations: 
*CCMB 210  25 Mac, 10 Sun  
DeBartolo 133  38 Mac, 40 Windows  
*Fitzpatrick 177  99 Sun, 12 Mac  
*Nieuwland 203  52 Sun  
*Nieuwland 132  12 Mac, 12 SGI  
*Riley 211  15 Mac  

*You might need to enter a door code to en· ter these clusters. If you need to know a door code, bring your valid ND, SMC, or Holy Cross I D to any staffed cluster and ask the cluster consultant for the code. 


Thursday, December 4, 1997 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
• WORlD NEWS BRtEFS 
Kentucky school victim's organs save two lives 
LOUISVILLE 
Only hours after 14-year-old Nicole Hadley was killed during a shooting rampage in a high school hallway, her heart and lungs were transplanted to help give two men the chance to live. "What she wanted to do in life was help other people," said her father, Chuck Hadley. "This is one way she can do this." Nicole died late Monday after a class­mat~ allegedly opened fire on a prayer gath­ering in the lobby of Heath High School, shooting eight students. She and two of her friends were killed. When doctors told Hadley and his wife. Gwen, that their daugh­ter had no chance of recovery, the couple asked that her organs be donated. Her heart, lungs, pancreas, liver and kidneys were viable for transplant. By Tuesday night, Nicole's heart and lungs had been trans­planted and both recipients were in serious but stable condition. Tom Hereford IV, 42, of Jeffersonville, Ind., received Nicole's lungs. Suffering from a condition that causes severe emphysema. he had been able to walk only a few steps without the help of oxygen from a tank. "We want to expr~ss our very deep thanks to the family that has made this gift available to our brother," said Hereford's brother, Paul. A Kentucky man, whose fami­ly asked that his name not be released, received Nicole's heart. The other organs were to be used outside the Louisville area. 
U.S. pledges $5 billion to South Korea 
WASHINGTON The United Stab~s today pledged up to $5 billion for South Korea's financial bailout 
· package after Seoul accepted tough terms imposed by the International Monetary Fund. "We have a vital national eeonomic and security interest in helping Korea to restore market stability as soon as possible," Treasury Secretary Robert Hubin said. South Korea, the world's 11th largest economy, is a major ally and trading partner of the United States. "In this new global economy," Rubin said, "American stability and prosperity is elosely linked with the stability of the international financial system and the strength of our trading partners." President Clinton called President Kim Young-sam and expressed support for the agreement and expressed hopes for the Korean economy to stabilize as soon as possible. The two leaders talked for about 15 minutes. South Korea and the IMF agreed on a record $55 billion rnseue loan after a week of tough negotia­tions. The IMF, World Bank and the Asian Development Bank are to provide $35 billion, with the United States, Japan, Germany and four other countries prepared to piteh in another $20 billion if that's not enough. 

Nasdaq 
1615.13 
+8.76 


me:

510.1 5 519 +2. 51

8,032.01 NYSE 

AMEX: 
669.10 
+3.40 
•

Composite
S&P 500: 

Volume:
976.77
+5.09 

BIGGEST PERCENTAGE GAINERS 
COMPANY ":'ICKER % CHANGE $ GAIN PRICE 
cycl -WI'S c CYPHW cycl -WI'S D CYPHZ Macraehem MCHMM US Automotive USAM Image G. T. =  87.30 70.59 57.82 40.79 33.33  3.435 1.50 1.156 0.968 0.75  7.375 3.625 3.156 3.343 3.00  
BIGGEST  PERCENTAGE  LOSERS  

Proja::tavisicn  PJTVW  53.84  NA  3.00  
Piranhalnteract PRJ\N food Tech viFL  33.33 29.41  0.875 3.43  l. 75 8.25  
First Virtual  FVHI  25.49  0.812  2.375  
~sian  SUPVU  23.65  3.5625  11.5  



125 nations sign treaty to ban land mines 
Holdouts on treaty include United States, Russia, China 
Associated Press 
OTTAWA 
Goaded into action by a global grass­roots alliance, 125 nations Wednesday began signing a treaty to ban anti-per­sonnel land mines. The leader of the United Nations called it "a historic vic­tory for the weak and vulnerable of the world." 
Looking on, as Canada became the first nation to sign, were mine victims in wheelchairs. jubilant activists who began campaigning for a ban seven years ago, and observers from major holdout nations such as the United States which -now face increased pres­sure to support the ban. 
"Here we have 125 governments rec­ognizing that the tide of history has changed," said Jocly Williams, who shared this year's Nobel Peace Prize with her anti-land mine coalition. "It's destroy their stockpiles of mines within ''I'm extraordinarily disappointed the a new definition of superpower. It is four years and remove deployed mines United States is not signing," said U.S. 
not one, it is everybody. We are the within 10 years. Senator Patrick Leahy, a Democrat superpower." 
Major holdouts refusing to sign from Vermont. "I'd have liked that 
Williams shared the podium at the include the United States, Russia, more than anything else in my years in ceremony with U.N. Secretary-General China, Turkey, Iran, Iraq, Libya, India, office." 
Kofi Annan and Canadian Prime 
Pakistan, Egypt. Israel, North Korea, Jack Quinn, a Republican congress­Minister Jean Chretien. Canada played South Korea and Vietnam. Many of men from New York, said some U.S. 
a pivotal role in persuading other 
these countries sent observers who politicians were unfamiliar with the 
nations to form an unprecedented 
participated in discussions about mine­extent of land-mine carnage around alliance with non-governmental agen­clearance. the world. 
cies in pushing for a ban. 
"We're part of this process," "If one single land mine exploded in "It is an alliance that has shamed the Ambassador Karl Incleyfurth, the chief the United States, they'd be tramplingworld and enlightened it," Annan said. 
U.S. observer, said. "The United States over one another to get a bill passed,""It has, for once, made the internation­is in a very special position." he said. 
al community a living, thriving relllity." 
The United States has said it could During her speech, Williams intro­With so many countries lined up to sign the treaty only if exemptions were duced two members of the Cambodian sign, the ceremony was scheduled to made to protect its troops in Korea and delegation who have lost limbs to continue through Thursday while dele­allow continued use of its anti-tank mines, a 13-year-old girl named Songgates held roundtable discussions on munitions. Inderfurth said Clinton has Kosal and Tun Channareth, 37, who the next steps -notably raising funds asked U.S. defense officials to address helps manufacture wheel-chairs for to aiel mine victims and clear away the both these problems with a tentative mine victims and started a petitionestimated 100 million mines scattered goal of signing the treaty in 10 years. drive for a ban among soldiers from round the world. 
Inclerfurth estimated that the world different factions. 
"Let us swear to the hundreds of 
spends about $200 million a year on Song Kosal was 8 when a mine blew thousands who have been murdered by mine-clearance, and should be spend­ofT her leg while she was herding ani­land mines that we will not turn back," ing five times that to get the job done mals near her village.
said Chretien, whose government 
effectively. "I am very happy so many counties pledged $70 million over five years. 
U.S. supporters of the ban expressed have come to sign the treaty so other "This slaughter must end." 
dismay that their country was not part little girls don't step on the mines," she 
The treaty requires signatories to 
of Wednesday's celebrations. said through an interpreter. 

700,000 Israeli public en1ployees go on strike 
+13.18 754,197,160000

Associated Pross  the.strike would continue  the government over pen­ nuClear research reactor.  
unless workers received  sions. wage agreements  The village of Eilot in  
JERUSALEM  written assurances from  and government plans for  southern Israel was with­ 
Israel's 700,000 public  Finance Minister Yaakov  privatization. ·  out water because the  
employees went on strike  Neeman regarding their  The strike reportedly cost  repair service at the state­ 
Wednesday, crippling  demands for guaranteeing  the Israeli economy $10  owned water company was  
transportation, medical  pension funds. The negotia­ million in just the first day,  on strike.  
care, and other vital ser­ tions were at the urging of  and Prime Minister  Hospitals were on emer­ 
vices in a dispute over pen­ Israeli President Ezer  .Benjamin Netanyahu  gency footing. Doctors  
sion funds. Union leaders  Weizman.  warned it could scare away  refused to strike, but nurs­ 
were ineeting with the  The strike also affected  foreign investors.  es complied with the strike  
finance minister to try to  government offices and  "This gives the Israeli  call. Only emergency  
negotiate an end to the  many state-owned indus­ economy a bad name, it  rooms, intensive care units,  
walkout.  tries. Private industries  hurts millions of citizens  wards and dialysis units  
With workers off the job,  were not affected.  and needs to stop immedi~  were working normally.  
the national airport turned  By late afternoon, a labor  ately," Netanyahu said.  During the day, an Air  
away flights. hospitals  court ordered some of the  The protest shut down  Canada passenger plane en  
turned away non-emer­ workers, including bank  the stock exchange, the  route to Ben-Gurion  
gency cases, and Israelis  employees and government  Bank of Israel. post offices.  International Airport from  
postponed wedding and funerals for lack of proper  workers. back to their jobs. The Histadrut refused the  oil refineries, Israel Aircraft Industries and  Toronto were given special permission to land because·  
government permits.  order.  other state-owned arms  they did not have enough  
Amir Peretz, chairman of  The strike w'as called  manufacturers and includ­ fuel to reach another air­ 
the Histaclrut union, said  because of a dispute with  ed workers at Israel's  port.  


page 6 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT Thursday, December 4, 1997 

Calendar of Events 

Upon This Rock Retreat Friday-Saturday, December~5-6 Fatima Retreat Center <':;
··fl 

Misa En Espanol -Spanish' Mass Sunday, December 7 .;t,~; 1:30pm Stanford-Keenan Chapel 


Rejoice! Black Cathonc·Mass ..... 
Sunday, December 7 
4:00 pm Badin Hall :nar'\P 
Voices of Faith Gospel 
Sunday, December 7 ·•• 
7:00 pm Washington · 
Advent Lessons ...."'···"'"" 
Sunday, December > 
7:15 pm Basilica · 
SPEAK OUT: .at'rt.,...s:an Community in uMoving Forward:..... .• 
Monday, Decem be· ..•••. ····· 9:00-10:00 pm LaFortune a 
Sign--up for (Jan. . . ......... . 'Monday-Fri ..••.•.... 103 Hesbu··· · 
:;?·: 
8asilica···a.nve• 
Tuesday ...D'E!celml 
10:00 t"''Ni•••"~~~ 

ANew Catnou1s t&rroed teN anJq~~~~tP~nQnweek everitng p for next semester. The choir will sing a vari­
~ ety of musical styles, from Taize chants to lively contemporary songs ... All are welcome, including instrumentalists}if Please· contact Karen Schneider-Kirneror Sarah Granger @ 1·5242. 
Freshman Retreat Freshmen of Alumni, Breen~Phillips, Keough, Howard, Knott, Lyons, McGlinn, Pasquerilla West, Sorin ... Mark your calendars now: Freshman Retreat #14 is coming January 23-24. Finally, it's your tuml!l!!!!!!! ,., 
Second Sunday of Advent 
,. 
Weekend Presiders 

at Sacred Heart Basilica 
Saturday, December"6 

5:00 p.m. ···' · , Rev. Thomas Streit, C.S.C. 
Sunday, oecembef 7tr 


10:00 a.m. Rev. John Lahey, C.S.C. 
11:45 a.m. Rev. Richard Warner, C.S.C. 
Scripture Readings 1st Reading Baruch 5:1-9 2nd Reading Philipppians 1:46,8-11 


Gospel Luke~,. 3:1-6 

What Are You Waiting For? Jim Lies, C.S.C. 
There is no time in one's young life when one more longs for Christmas, for family and for home, than as a college student. It is a remarkable thing. With all that stands between now and the end of the semester, one cannot help but look to the other side, and long for it. Not since childhood when one waits for Santa and to open gifts on Christmas Eve has the anticipation for any­thing been so real; and never again will the longing be as palpable for the coming of Christmas as it is in the days before final exams. And yet what are we waiting for? 
That waiting which you do in these days before Christmas, heightened as it is by the seemingly secular circumstances of this academic milieu, only proves to highlight the waiting which we do as a Church during these days ofAdvent. As a community of peo­ple who call ourselves Christians, we wait. vVe \vait and we long for the birth ofjesus. We wait and we make ready for the coming ofjesus into our hearts and into our homes. 
In both cases, we long for the other side ofAdvent. In both cases, we long for Christmas. But these are very different waitings, very different longings. What we need to do is translate our long­ing, our burning desire for the other side of term papers and final exams into a burning desire for the Lord jesus. Our palpable longing must surely be for something more than just a break from the academic rigors of college life. The peace that we seek on the other side of finals, if it is truly to sustain us, must surely be sought in the LordJesus. 
The great irony in it all is that if we do manage to translate our longing for the one into a longing for the other, we will find the peace now that we assume that we have to wait for until then. Advent is a time to wait, yes; but for what? For the Lord who is already among us? We make ready during this time not only for the coming ofjesus at Christmas, but also at every moment of our lives, at every moment thatjesus would be the peace that we seek if we were only to welcome hirn in. Thus the question, what are you waiting for? 
There are all kinds ofways to welcome him. They are differ­ent for each of us. For some, it means readying ourselves through more frequent participation in the sacraments of the Church, such as confession or daily Eucharist. For others, it means spend­ing more time in prayer, either alone or with others. For still oth­ers, it means being attentive to those among us who are in particu­lar need, because to welcome the least of these is to welcome 
Jesus. I will not presume to say what you must do, but you must do something. There is too much at stake for each of us not to. 
You all know the story ofjesus, and of how there was no room in the Inn. The question for each of us is: Is there roon1 enough in us? Will we, as the innkeeper did, turn away the one who seeks to be born in us? Will we, in these days of final exams, turn away the very one who can save our lives, especially when they somehow seem so much in need of saving? Let your longing in these days be for the Lord; let your hope rest in the one who saves. OnlyJesus can give us what we truly seek on the other side ofAdvent; only he can give us what we truly need right now. 
So what are you waiting for? Let it beJesus, and let it be now. 
1­
(!MPusMINISTRY 


' D 
Thursday, December 4, 1997 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 7 







You • eras 
~ 

ete,stu ent 

e'r~ recognizing
• 

er or1t~. 


Cindy Daws, Soccer 
University ofNotre Dame 
She's made a name for hersel£ In her sport And at her scho9l. Which is why she's been chosen as a Honda Award winner by vote of over 900 NCAA member schools. For her athletic success as well as her leadership abilities, academic performance and community involvement. In honor of her hard work, American Honda will make a donation to her school's general scholarship fund. It's yet another 
. accomplishment to add to her list 
C 19'17 Amerk·otn BHnd:.~ \loU)f ( :o.., IIll' 
' , ' ~· , ; i : ; ; ! ! I t , ' • : I I ; • J I ! ; I I _I I .: ,• ' .-I { J ! : ! I l -· t I , ( . J. . • , ' ! i ; · ~ f i ! I I ! .· , : : i .: I I • I : .-· · ; • ·' = ! I I i I I ~ i = I ~ I .t i I l I I f 1 • · · • I " · 1 ; = ­
1

,.,.,,,,,,,.,,,,;,:;/1 _,,,,,,,,,,,, .. ,,/1/ilfl·­
f ,. ··'// ,,,,, . • • : • t .t ·' .• 





OINT

page 8 Thursday, December 4, 1997 
• AROUND THE WORLD IN A HUNDRED DAYS 
Studying Abroad: A Journey of Self-Discovery 
THE OBSERVER 
NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Norre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1997-98 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Brad Prendergast Managing Editor Business Managtr .Jamie Heisler Tom Roland Assistant Managing Editor 
Dan Cichalski News Editor ............................ Heather Cocks Advenising Manager .............................. Jed Peters Viewpoint Editor .......................KeUv Brooks Ad Design Manager.. .................. .jennifer Breslow Sports Editor .................................. Mike Day Production Manager ......................... Mark DeBoy 
Accent Editor ........................... Joey Crawford Systems Manager ....................... Michael Brouillet Saint Mary's Editor ........................ Lori Allen Controller ............................................ Kyle Carlin Photo Editor ........................... Katie Kroener 
The Observer is the indepc:ndenr newspaper published by the studenrs of the University of Notre Dame du Lac Jnd Saint Mary's College. lr doo not nc:ctssarily reflect the: policies of the administration ofeither institution. The news is reponed as accurately Jnd objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief. Managing Ediror, Assistanr Managing Ediror, News Editor, V~wpoinr Editor, Spons Editor, Accent Editor, Saint Mary's Editor, Photo Editor, and Associate News Ediror. Commentaries, lerrers and Inside Columns present the views of the authors, and not neces­sarily those: ofThe: Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's community and to all readers. The free expression of varying opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 
Editor-in-Chief  631-4 542  Business Office  631-5313  
Managing Editor  63 I -4 54 I  Advertising  631-6900/8840  
News/Photo  63 I-5323  Systems  631-8839  
Sports  63 I -4543  Office: Manager  631-747I  
Accent/Saint Mary's  631-4 'i40  Fax  631-6927  
Day Editor/Viewpoint  63 I-5303  Viewpoint E-Mail  Viewpoint.! @nd.edu  
General Information  63 I -7471  Ad E-Mail  observer@darwin.cc.nd.edu  

r~)' 
-
COCIIIN. India  them for what they have brought to this  
Papers have been written, exams have  experience.  
been taken, bags are packed, and now  January will be odd, to say the least.  
I'm just waiting to get on the plane to  Some will not be returning home for  
Europe.  quite a while, and some are spending  
These past few months have flown by,  another semester away from  
and I can't believe how much I've seen  Notre Dame. But even if we  
and done. It simply doesn't feel real. Just  were all to be back at  
yesterday wasn't I on a plane to Japan  school at the same  
time, we could never  
recreate what we  
have here. It  
does not mat­ 
ter, though  
Juliana Vodicka  -the con­nection is  
still there  
and can  
never  
be  
taken  
away.  
with 27 strangers?  I'm  
But now it is December, and I'm so  leav­ 
close to home and hours away from  ing  
Western culture. The most difficult part  India  
of leaving India is knowing that when we  eight  
all get ofT the plane in Zurich, that's it.  hours  
We will never be the same again.  from  
We each came on this trip with differ­ now. I  
ent reasons and motivations. Now, while  don't  
our reasons and motives may still be  know  
individual, we have a unity that is impos­ how I feel  
sible to describe.  about that.  
In my first column, i wrote about the  I'm very  
strange mix of people. From tree-hugger  excited to be  
to early morning riser to the guy that  back in  
wears the same thing everyday, we had  Western culture,  
it all, so it seemed. As the trip pro­ but I don't know  
gressed we all looked the same in our  when I'm going to be  
grunchy-granola outfits that we just  back here. I don't know  
alternated from day to day as we woke  if I ever will be back here  
at ungodly hours.  for that matter. I just don't  
We blended in more than just outward  know.  
physical characteristics. Those originally  What I do know is that I'm taking a  
quiet began to speak up, even though  piece of it with me. I'm not sure of which  
they were afraid of opening up and shar­ piece though! You see, this trip has done  
ing themselves. Some who didn't want to  so much to me and for me, Ijust don't  
be identified with a particular group  know where I stand.  
grew to love its special meaning. We've  Do you know the feeling when you  
taken on the roles needed in such a  wake up in the morning and you know  
dynamic environment. We became a sin­ you had a dream the night before, but  
gle unit with 27 brains. llove each of  you can't remember anything about it?  
• DOONESBURY  

>tvHAVe 70 ASK Yai/?S8t.Ve5, MATM:U/1..4+1e.R/CA Bt3UK& 7lJ~YWITHOUT 711C-~POtiOE6 
OP /NCL.I.J5/0N? IAJOUUJ 7HEI<& &VeN811A 8/.ACK Mla:tf; 
Then as the day goes on, when you least expect it, you begin remembering little things. Then, suddenly and for no 
reason, you remember 
------everything 
about 

your dream while watching "Days of Our Lives." 
That's what it feels like. I keep remem­bering Japan, Taipei, Bali, China and countless other places. Putting all these experiences together can be fuzzy. Each time a memory comes to me, I see some­thing different, something that has changed me, and I don't know how to fit 
GARRY TRUDEAU 
the pieces together yet. That will proba­bly take a while and come when I least expect it. 
I'm very scared of that moment, know­ing just how much I changed. It's like the Fourth of July. I knnw the fireworks are going to make a spectacular sight with a big bang, but even though you know it's 
coming ... you still jump. I guess that's part of the process of i' .t.--studying abroad for a semester halfway around the world. It's not only a journey across coun­tries and continents, it's an adventure of the self. I know that I've taken full advan­tage of this semester; I just need to teach myself to continue on my journey after I return home. 
So, in a few short hours we all part and travel through Europe on our own. It's going ( to be a different sort of adventure from what we're used to, but I'm so excited. I just wish 
my backpack was lighter! From now until Dec. 22 it's beer halls and other fun stuff for me. It will be nice to be able to dictate what I want to do 
now rather than have to go along with the whole group. Yet, I will think of them often, 
just as I think of all those I'm not 
with now. January will come soon enough, and I will back home. I can't wait. 
Yeah ... January in South Bend; what more could you ask for? 
Juliana Vodicka is ajunior English and theology major. Her column appears every other Thursday. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
• QuoTE OF THE DAY 
''Never place a period where God has placed a comma." 
-Gracie Allen 





VIEWPOINT
Thursday, December 4, 1997 page 9 
• POSTCARDS fROM MEXICO 
Th~ Virgin: A symbol of God and Mexico 

Renee noticed first, when we were walking down the street. 
"Look, I saw that in a documentary last semester," she said, and pointed at a tree. We were looking for apart­ments in a funky little neighborhood in Mexico City and had to pause to see what she was pointing at. 
"That" was a tree. Specifically, it was a gaudily decorated tree, with paper flowers, carnations, white can­dles, and ribbons tied around the bot­tom, half in bloom. No ordinary tree, but a miraculous one, because in place of what would normally have been dis­missed as a knot or a freak of nature, or just some peeled-away bark in any other part of the world was the Virgin of Guadalupe. 
=========~~~~~~~ 
Bernadette Pampuch 
wherever she makes her presence 

-______:========-----known. 
In the state of Oaxaca, if you 
In 1531, after the Aztec nation had been destroyed here and the Spaniards were well on their way to deconstructing the pagan temples of the people, a miracle occurred. In the midst of a failed attempt to convert the natives, a symbol that breached both the Old World and the New World appeared on a hill called Tepeyac. 
That symbol, a virgin wearing a cloak of stars and dark like the people of Mexico, is now embedded in a tree not far from my apartment. if you are one of the believers. She is quite dearly defined, her head and shoul­ders and cloak outlined, and the faith­ful have come to leave their offerings. 
Condesa is the Sollo of Mexico City, a tiny little community where cofTee shops outnumber pedestrians and everyone has taken great care to dis­tance themselves from "typical" Mexico; there are Argentinean restau­rants;Internet cafes, stores selling herbs and beads and ghetto stree~wear on every corner. The peo­ple living there are hopelessly young. hopelessly beatnik, artistic, modern, and proud to be different from other Mexicans. 
Yet, in the middle of all this, is a hopelessly typical shrine to Our Lady of Guadalupe. 
In Mexico, believers of this miracle are called guadalupanos, devotees of the Mother of God. You can sec her image -dark eyes, dark face, brilliant robe the color of the midnight sky­on candles, on bumper stickers, in the windows of taxies, in tattoos. La Guadalupe is not just a symbol of reli­gious devotion, but a symbol of Mexicaness, of pride. She has been carried by Chicano field workers dur­ing protests in the 60s and in civil right marches in Washington, D.C.. this decade. I own a shirt. Mv friend named her baby after her. · · 
She was not alvvays Guadalupe, but was once an J\ztee earth goddess ealled Tonantzin, Mother of All Gods. 
Detractors would say that it was a wonderful ploy on the part of the Spaniards to convert the pagans, that it was just too convenient that the Virgin of Guadalupe was dark like they were, to first appear to an Indian, to be seen standing on top of a moon, hinting that she was taking the place of Tonantzin. She was filled with Aztec imagery, hands folded not in prayer but in an Indian sign for ''I've come to announce good news." On her robe she carried the fine detailing of a herb used for fertility. and a rope tied around her waist was an announce­ment of pregnancy. 
But detractors do not leave offerings of flowers and candles on a street in the middle of nowhere nearly 500 years later. true believers do. While her "real" image hangs in the basilica of Our Lady of Guadalupe in the north of the city, hung high above the altar on the holy tilma (cloak) of an Indian named Juan Diego to whom she appeared, the Virgin is so much a liv­ing part of the people of Mexico that they have seen fit to believe in her 
believe the stories, her outline is seen inside the delicate shell of a clam found there. Last summer, she was found on the floor of the subways, at the llidalgo stop, formed either by the hand of God or a persistent leaky ceil­ing that stained the tiles where thou­sands of people came to say prayers, ask petitions, leave coins or candles, and stare in wonder. There was such a crowd that officials had to remove the tile and place the Virgin outside, in a shrine dedicated especially to her, and a priest came to say a blessing when she was finally installed. 
J\t the Basilica, I have seen young mothers, ancient old women, and young men come crawling on their knees for city blocks and even miles in order to ask a prayer at the altar there. There is nothing like it in the world, this simple dedication to Catholic faith and hope in one image that makes the huge difTcrencc between native belief and European religion not so large at all. I am proud to call myself a believer. 
In the meantime, the Virgin of Guadalupe keeps appearing, in the window of a high-rise in Atlanta, on a street sign in Oregon, not just confined to Mexico, but all over the world. Whether it is a sign from God or not, it is a sign of a people who have enough faith in God to believe, and early tomorrow morning, someone will come again to leave flowers and light candles at the miracle in the tree down the street. 
Bernadette Pampuch, SMC '97, is a graduate literarure student in Mexico City this year with a scholarship from Rotary International. Her e-mail is bpampuc@hotmail.com. Her column appears every other Thursday. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not neces­sarily those of The Obserz•er. 
• LETTER TO THE EDITOR 



Don'tjump to conclusions 
When Matt and l were elected into office last April, we set out to make a positive difference in the student life at Our Lady's University. 
And we take this job seriously. 

The recent developments with Jeremy Lingenfelser's petition has unfortunately taken our focus off improving student life to deal with the issue at hand,. To put it simply, the allegations in this petition are nothing more than political mud slinging. , 
Mr. Lingenfelser claims that he has no personal grievances with Matt. and that he has never met him, yet in the same breath he calls Matt, "a drunk and lazy (president)." Matt, Mary.and I spend much ()four time on the second floor of LaFQl'fune in the student gov~ ernment offic~. I can assure you that 
. Matt is neither a drunk norJazy indi~ vidual. These personal attacks are. unfair, unfounded, and I am embar~ rassed that they came from a Notre Dame student. I thought more dignity existed on this campus than to resort to name calling. · 
Matt, Mary, the student governll!ent staff and I·willcontinue··inour efforts'w 
• LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
A lesson 
learned 



either way 

We are responding to the letter pub­lished in the Nov. 19 edition written by Aaron Kreider. In this letter, Kreider addressed the recent lecture presented by the former CEO of Texaco, Alfred DeCrane. Kreider found fault with Texaco's policies on human rights and the environment, and inappropriately preeeded to question the motives that brought him to speak to the Notre Dame community. We would like to specifically respond to Kreider's latter assertion. 
DeCrane resided on campus the week of Nov. 10 teaching an Executive-in­Residence course, sponsored by The 
. Center for Ethics and Heligious Values in Business. This course provides students with the unique opportunity of challeng­ing, learning and interacting with senior level executive managers possessing a wealth of experience that is not usually found in the classroom. Moreover, DeCrane's message centered on the need for integrity in business. He disagreed with the assumption that two sets of val­ues drive an individual involved in busi­ness. A corporation's responsibility, he said, is to ensure that its employees are not asked to violate their ethical values at work. In this context, we discussed many of the issues that Mr. Kreider raised in his letter -issues that were not the focal point of Mr. DeCrane's lecture. We agree that Texaco does have many business 

to enhance life onthe Notre Dame campus. As always, we are interested in student input.. Jer~myLingenielser and any other student should feel free to talk to us about their concerns. Many ofthe improvements that student government has made this year have been the result of students voicing their opinion to us. 
When Matt and I first took over our office, we were givena copy of Father llesburgh's "Ten Commandments for Student Leaders." I have always had tremendous respect for Father Hesburgh and his immense wisdom, and one piece of advice in this Jetter seems to apply to this particular situa­tion. In the words of Father Hesburgh, "Be fair.... Fairness will win them more than anythlilg else/' I }lope the students of thislJniversity will be fair when they consider this issue~ and.see through the half~truths and inconsis• tencies which plague this petition. 
Erek Nass Student Body Vke Presjdent 
and social problems it must continue to improve. While we do not fully endorse all of Texaco's business decisions, we do see the dual benefits of hosting repre­senta"lives from this corporation. The first comes in understanding the firm's motivations and justifications. A second is found in the opportunity to initiate questions, discussions and inquiries on the part of the future businesspeople attending this university. 
DeCrane's lecture focused on the establishment or global standards f.or business. lie discussed the evolution of and need for global anti-bribery and cor­ruption laws. including the ethical pre­cepts and business motivations underly­ing such movements. 
As an organization, Students for Hesponsible Business promotes and believes that business profits and social responsibility are integrally aligned. We do agree with Kreider that Texaco has not had a perfeet record as a model of a socially responsible business. Yet, by bringing this discussion to the university, specifically to the College of Business, students were able to question them­selves and their own motivations and feelings on these issues. 
DeCrane successfully served as the vehicle for this discussion. 
Corrine Doran MBA Srudem Co-Director Srudenrs for Responsible Business 
Jason Moskowitz 
Undergraduare Student 
Co-Director 
Srudems for Responsible Business • 
December 2, 1997 



page 10 The Observer • LATE NIGHT IN SOUTH BEND Thursday, December 4, 1997 

52750 u.s. 33N. ~CIMIIIIII on. Rill !SenileSt. llaly'sl 


243·1122 
S.R. 23 (East flf lr.IIOOdl !Senile~ 0.. Areal 


243·1111 

_.FREE EXTRAS-­
• 
Parmesan Cheese Crust • Gar11c Butter Crust 

• 
Extra Pizza Sauce • Side Of Banana Peppers.Just Ask· 


FREE DEUVERY ON CAMPUS No Coupon Necessary Excludes Oilier Otlen Delvety Extra HNot On Clnjllll Umlted l1me Ofler 


Late Nite Snack Tradition 


Sit Nlgld 11 pm -Zam~ 

Bowl" Good through Dec. 20th 

Open 7 days a week 
Wednesday Night: 
KARAOKE at 9:30 Tues., Thurs., Fri., & Sat.: 
DJ 
Great Menu, Food Specials call for information 





I 1 ,
I i ~ ! • I 
.'I I I I I ! I I I 
.
\ ·, \ . ·~ 

I ' . i 
Thursday, December 4, 1997
page 2 The Observer • IRISH INSIDER 


The Observer/John Daily 
Kate Sobrero makes one ofher trademark sideline runs against Villanova. 
• 

f-j U]lg_ty ._Lr_i:.tb llD t !.FP rr .) 1rt u­
v,.., -----C) 
.,.. .» 

•~so~111 t1 fJ r1 
T 
hey tasted the thrill of victo.­ry of in 1995 and the agony of defeat in 1996. The women's soccer team enters this weekend's ~~~~~~~ semifinals with a bitter aftertaste still lingering in its mouth. 
Last year. Notre Dame gra­ciously accepted second place after falling 
Kathleen LOpez short against Assistant Sports Editor 
North Carolina in the NCAA 
finals. 

Rest assured, this year's team will not settle for second best. 
The time has come to silence the critics and prove that Notre Dame ranks right alongside with the nation's other top program. 
"This has been an easy year for me because I haven't had to coach to much because we just go out and play," head coach Chris Petrucelli said. "We let everybody else worry about us because we feel that we are talented enough that we can just go out and play." 
Throughout the season, Petrucelli and Co. have emphasized the amount of talent this year's team contains and the amount of compo­sure it has shown by steadily build­ing. 
This year's squad has stressed that last year's team hit its stride a little to 'early. During last year's regular season, the Irish defeated the Tar Heels 2-1 in overtime. Some say that last year's squad was at its best in that game. 
"It is difficult to get your team peaking at the right time," Petrucelli said. ~We are peaking at the right time." 
Notre Dame has consistently been i~prov~ng since its disappointing tie wtth North Carolina in September making major strides towards its goal of the Final Four. 
Initially. skeptics felt that this year's team might be hindered by the graduation of seniors Amy VanLaecke, Jen Renola, and Cindy Daws. The squad quickly silenced 
. I .. .. f. P.~tp. ~ ''P
[llf:;y r ---J _;J.. I ;.., 
the critics with the spectacular efforts by the freshmen starters. 
"This is the deepest team that we have had," senior captain Holly Manthei said. "Along with the tal­ent, this is the best chemistry that we have had." 
Promises like the aforementioned are the absolute truth. After suffer­
. ing major losses on the defense and on the offense, Petrucelli assured the team would be a contender. This year's freshman class has aided the team tremendously. 
"It is a season-long process," Petrucelli replied about preparing the freshman for the Final Four. "You prepare them by playing good teams all along, by taking them into Portland. You prepare them during the season for this so they're not freshmen anymore." 
Despite what some think, youth is not a handicap. In fact, the Irish rely on a majority of underclass· men. The team's scoring leader is freshman sensation Anne Makinen, who is a threat from anywhere. She 
-currently leads the squad with 23 goals in 22 games. "Some of our freshmen. Anne in particular, are not your typical freshmen," ·Petrucelli said. "We are at the top of our game right now." Also contributing tremendously on the offense has been freshman Meotis Erikson, who currently ranks second in scoring with 22 goals. She has also dished off 12 assists. ­These two combined with the likes of freshman defender Kelly Lindsey to erase any doubts among the critics. "The '95 team won a lot of games this time of year on heart, determi­nation and desire," Petrucelli said. "This team is winning a lot of games this year with those charac­teristics but more talent." This year's squad has been unstoppable thus far in the season. After this year's tournament, critics can rest assured that Notre Dame soccer is for real. With the added talent, depth and pure desire, this year's squad is hungry for the title and will not set­tle for anything less. 
Campus Stadium, G: #2 NOTRE DAME V1 


Head Coach: PLAYER TO WATCH: Anne Makinen Chris Petrucelli 
NCAA appearances: 5 
1997...98 Season: 
23'0'1 
Starters Returning: 


7 

Forwards: 
9,Monica Gerardo 1Q,Meotis Erikson 12,Jenny Streiffer 
Midfielders: 
3,Kara Brown 5,Shannon Boxx g,Anne Makinen 16,Holly Manthei 
Defenders: 
z,Kelly Lindsey 6,Jen Grubb lJ,Kate Sobrero 
Goalie: 
1,LaKeysia Beene 


3SANTA C''LA•·· ····· ··········. vs. j
. ,·····.RA·····
·..·.-·:':'"·"·" __, ___ -,,:::: .-:··.-::· ·::-. -:·=·.-.-:-: --:=.--=.. :-.-":::;· .-·:·.:.·.-.-:-:-... . ·,:,-,.-. ·'---·:---..'·>"· ..._:,.-. 
Head Coach: Jerry Smith 
NCAA appearances: 
9 
1997...98 Season: 
20'2'1 
Starters Returning: 



2 
Forwards: 
5, Mandy Clemens 18, Megan Horvath 2J,Jacqui Little 
Midfielders: 
J,Whitney Hollis 10,Nikki Serlenga 11,Ashley Albrecht 
Defenders: 
8~Kylie Bivens 9,Lisa Nanez 12,Heather Aldana 
16,Kimberly Pickup 
Goalie: 
21 ~Crystal Gordon 


The Observer/Brandon Candura Freshman Anne Makinen currently leads Notre Dame with 23. goals and 12 assists. 
Photo courtesy of SCU Web site Bronc~ sopho~ore Jacqui Little has contributed 13 goals and 10 ass1sts and 1s a threat to any opposing d~fense. 
Thursday, December 4, ·1997 
The Observer • IRISH INSIDER page 3 

our 


eensboro, N.C. • December 5 

PLAYER TO WATCH: Sara Whalen 

Photo courtesy of the University of Connecticut Two time all-American senior Sara Whalen is considered the Huskies' most dangerous player due to her playmaking ability. 

The Observer/Mike Ruma The 1996 National Player of the Year, Tar Heel junior Cindy Parlow, currently ranks second in scoring with 12 goals. 
Head , ~t-V .,. Coach: ~D~IR\I··~ Len Tsantiris 
NCAA appearances: 16 
1997.-98 Season: 
22~3~0 
Starters Returning: 7 
Forwards: 

11 ~Carmie Landeen 
15~Jen Carlson 
21~Naomi Stone 
Midfielders: 

9~Sarah Barnes 
13~Jennifer Tietjen 
18~Lauren Molinaro 
19~Marie Spinelli 
Defenders: 

8~Sara Whalen 
1O~Chrisy McCann 
20~ Farrah Barnes 
Goalie: 

3~Heather Stone 

-!' .,. ,· ...···.' .· ·.. <)'· .·" •· ,:~
i'.·... ··!·.· .....-....·· R.·T.·.· :..... . ,.. ·.··"'· .... ·. ..'· o···"'~ ..· ·. ~... ·.."'.
N c····
ll . .· ' . .· .. . ' . . . "' k.,..
#1 1.,., , J .. .... H .AR ~ LINir'1 
Head Coach: Anson Dorrance 
NCAA appearances: 16 
1997..98 Season: 25~0~ 1 
Starters Returning: 8 

Forwards: 

7-Robin Confer 18-Raven McDonald 22~Cindy Parlow 
Midfielders: 

12-Aubrey Faulk 21 ~Laurie Schwoy 30-Rebekah McDowell S~Tiffany Roberts 
Defenders: 

4~Nel Fettig 27~Staci Wilson 14-Lorrie Fair 
Goalie: 

1~Siri Mullinix 
The Observer/John Daily Jenny Streiffer is coming off an ankle injury that kept the forward out of action when Notre Dame knocked off the UCLA Bruins 8-0 in the quarterfinals. 

By ALLISON KRILLA Sports Writer and KATHLEEN LOPEZ Assistant Sports Editor 

It would be easy for Notre Dame to look past Friday's semifinal matchup with Connecticut to a pos­sible date with North Carolina in the final game. After all, the Irish have beaten the Huskies twice this season by a combined 7-1 margin. 
But the Irish refuse to do that because they still have something to prove. 
"Every time we play they never give us any respect," senior captain Kate Sobrero said. "They have been talking so much smack all year long. We are real excited to play them again." 
The Huskies have been chasing the Irish ever since their emergence as a soccer powerhouse. 
"It is not that we don't like each other," Sobrero said. "There is defi­nitely a little feud going.on... 
Last time the two teams met, they were fighting for the Big East con­ference tournament crown. Notre Dame walked away with a convinc­ing 6-1 victory. After two encoun­ters. no secrets remain between the two squads. 
Connecticut quickly discovered the strength of freshman Anne Makinen's overall game which burned the Huskies to the tune of three goals in the Big East finals. 
Notre Dame constantly frets over the marking ability of UConn's sweeper senior Sara Whalen, the 1995 and '96 Big East player of the year. Her explosive speed and ball­handling ability makes her an offen­sive threat as well. 
Notre Dame maintains that its game plan for the semifinals remains the same as it has all sea­son. Controlling the ball and finish­ing their chances are the team's main priorities. 
"I don't think we are going to play any different than we have played all year long." Irish head coach Chris Petrucelli. 
While the most visible part of the team this year has been the offense, the difference in winning a champi­onship and coming home. a brides­maid again rests in the hands of the defense. 
Goalkeeper LaKeysia Beene leads the nation with a minuscule 0.27 goals against average. Sobrero and Jen Grubb both received all-Great Lakes region honors, making them eligible for all-American accolades. Freshman Kelly Lindsey has come on strong in the back, making key defensive stops in the NCAA tourna­ment. 
"On Friday we're going to have to play really tough," said Sobrero. "And if we make it to Sunday's game, that will be the true test for us. We'll be going against the top forwards in the country. We're going to have to really step it up." 
The Irish are as ready as they have ever been to capture another national title and the media spot­light. 
But first the team must focus on the task at hand. or come Sunday it might be the one 01~ the sidelines. 
Tha Observer/John Daily Irish midfielder Anne Makinen attempts to gain control of the ball, as the Huskies' Jen Tietjen defends in the Big East conference tournament finals. 
..., 
. ,. 
-
·• I 



page 4 The Observer • IRISH INSIDER Thursday, December 4, 1997 

selected by the National Soccer appearance (in 1993)." saidgle season and most career tournament started. 
Coaches Association of America Manthei. "It is definitely a cred­assists. Manthei's current , "As a senior and as
\. 

career assist mark, 128, is ' a captain, I want to as a third-team all-American it to Coach and the program to also the college women's \ win for this team," and was a finalist for the be mentioned in the same soccer record. '. a J·· ' said Manthei. "I think Hermann Trophy and Missouri breath as North Carolina." 
in a Athletic Club player of the year Manthei is also the picture of
With each passing game, the Sobs, Julie and myself offensive-minded Manthei single have put pressure on award. stability for Notre Dame, having 
NCAA "Holly brings so much to the started every game in her four­
moves herself further and fur­ourselves not to let this team do ther from the previous record tourna­anything less than what it's team," said Sobrero. "She year career. But Manthei is not of 7 2, set by North ment game. capable of doing." brings an incredible personali­selfish or arrogant. Obviously, 
With her four ty, and she's just an incredible Manthei's commitment to
Carolina's Mia Hamm, a Being no stranger to the 
assists in the player. You can always expect assisting her teammates takesnational team member toughest competition, Manthei 
199 7 champi-her to play well. You can humility.
and olympic gold will rely on a wealth of interna­
onship tournament, always expect her to play good With a possible two games
medalist. tional experience when squar­
Manthei approaches balls. She does so much on and left in her collegiate career,
In Notre ing off against the nation's elite 
the record of five that off the field." Manthei is not concerned withDame's soccer teams. 
both she and midfielder On the field, Manthei's side­breaking individual records.
recent 8-0 Manthei competed in the 
Kara Brown set in 1996. line runs and trademark corner She has only one thing on her
victory 1995 Women's World Cup with over the Her career mark of 14 assists the U.S. national team. and was kicks have helped brings the mind -winning a second 
in NCAA championship play is Notre Dame soccer program national championship in three
UCLA also a member of the team in 
also a record. into the spotlight. years for her team, and slipping
Bruins, 1996 and 1997. Among her 21 
So when Manthei and fellow "I think we've been near the back out of the spotlight. 
Manthei appearances with the national 
recorded captains Kate Sobrero and Julie team are two starts against three Maund prepare the young Irish South Korea on May 2 and 4,
for this weekend's trip to the Editors: Allison K rilla, Kathleen Lopez­
assists 1996, recording an assist on a ~ 
Final Four, they have plenty of
t 0 Christie Pearce goal in the sec­
tournament experience to draw ond game. Production & Layout: Heather Cocks from. 
"Holly's success with the Cover photo: John Daily
The trip to North Carolina 

World Cup brings a different ;
will be the fourth consecutive level of experience that not ~ Lab 'Iech: Joe StarkFinal Four appearance for the 
many of the freshmen have '' 
Irish. Manthei and Co. have 
Best Boy: Dan Cichalski
ever seen," said Petrucelli. 
By ALLISON KRILLA tasted the sweet thrill of victo­Sports Writer ry, winning a national title in 1995. and experienced the bit­become terness of defeat, losing to he appears from the one of North Carolina in the 1996 
seven

shadows when a finals. defender least expects players "The one thing that I've it, and is always in the to notch noticed in the last three years right place at the three at the Final Four," said head 
right time, playing the ball coach Chris Petrucelli, "is that perfectly to an open seniors win games for you. teammate's foot. She "When we won in 1995, our is Irish senior tri-seniors were outstanding," captain Holly said Petrucelli. "Last year Manthei. when we lost, Debbie Keller 
A three-time was a senior for North all-American Carolina, and she scored at left mid­the winning goal. This is fielder, the time when the seniors Manthei really step up, and I owns expect (our seniors) to four have a huge weekend." 
"One of the things we discussed at the begin­ning of the year was that we want to finish the season, no matter if we win or lose, playing Notre Dame assist with no regrets," said records -most assists in Manthei. "That's the a game, most assists in a frame of mind we've half, most assists in a sin­had ever since the 

In her four years at Notre Dame, midfielder Holly Manthei kicked her way into the record books six times. 
.NCAA to 
rds: 
• Most assists tn a game: 3 
0 • 
t asststs tn tournam 
• 
• 

*Also a women's college soccer record 
As a junior, Manthei was top since the team's first NCAA 



Thursday, December 4, 1997 
The Observer • LATE NIGHT IN SOUTH BEND page 11 


~­
Open: Tuesday • Saturday: Spm -3am. Fridays: 2pm -3am 

Bridget's Owns Tuesday Nights!! 287·6966 



Available for Private Pariiesll 
'· 

1025 So. Bend Ave. • So. Bend, IN 46617 
~ 
' 
~ ·. ~ ',::::;~;'· 
:..t::;. :. 
'." ', q,. 

:~ . 

.I,
Right near Corby's 
23-0SCAR 




..;J The tradition continues. . . J 

1­

where South Bend & Notre Datne meet!! Music • .Bands • Pool • Darts • Hummus Open until 3 Mon -Sat 
http://www.infinitech2.com/club23 
page 12 
Thursday, December 4, 1997 

concert review 
chicago crowns the mighty blue kings 
W
hen you walk through the doors of the Green Mill, located in the uptown dis­trict of Chicago. you actually expect to be confronted by Al Capone and his cronies (the fact that he did fre­quent the establishment notwithstand-. ing). 
The room itself is characterized by original art-deco murals, pillars and woodwork; it is practically impossible not to feel transplanted back into the '20's. Notorious for offering top-of-the­line live Chicago jazz. the Green Mill welcomed back one of its hometown mainstays, the Mighty Blue Kings, with a sold-out show last Wednesday. 
Decked out in double~bre.asted two­piece suits with flamboyant silk ties, the Mighty Blue Kings looked and sounded the entire swing act with panache. All under the age of 30, they delivered an inspired and exuberant performance that gave new life to music of another era. Led by charismatic and animated vocalist/crooner Ross Bon and co­founders Jerry DeVivo (saxophone) and Gareth Best (guitar). the Blue Kings took the Green Mill by storm and proved why they have become Chicago's most prominent jump-swing act. 

DeVjvo and new saxophonist Jonathan Doyle bopped along in their swank attire, demanding the devout attention of every listener in the packed house on "Jumping At the Green Mi11,'' and "Baby Drives Me Wild," two popu­lar numbers from the Blue Kings' first album, Meet Me In Uptown. Their stage presence and simple but the catchy horn lines gave the Blue Kings their dis­tinctively power-packed punch, which was often underscored by Best's soulful, 
The Observer/Joel Cummins 
robust comping. Newcomers Clark Sommers and Jimmy Olson provided for a solid and straightforward rhythm sec­tion on the upright bass and drums, respectively. However, the star of the Blue Kings was frontman Ross Bon, whose earthy and mature vocals delighted the ear. While Bon's outstand­ing vocal performance could have easily sufficed, he took the music one step fur­ther by becoming a bandleader as well, encouraging the rest of the band with fist-pumping accentual gestures, and exciting the crowd with his ever-present and fierce clapping. 
While the material from their new release Come One, Come All, appeared relatively unfamiliar to the fan base, new interpretations of classks such as "No Blow, No Show" and "I Can't Stop It," possess the same flair and rhythmic 
· gait that will surely have fans singing every lyric. as they did for the tongue­in-cheek standard "Huzz. Buzz. Buzz." Unfortunately, the band hasn't mas­tered the same electrifying presence with ballads such as "Long Distance Lover," which revealed its only weak g<~nre, as the audience seemed to eagerly anticipate the next upbeat num­ber. The Blue Kings make their magic with relatively simple 12-bar blues progres­sions and circle-of-fifths bridges. yet their relentless energy and spirit kindle the music; they treat every note as if it were the most ingenious one ever played. The music of the Mighty Blue Kings recalls the danceable sounds of another era by adorning simplicity with a youthful energy, a formula that will extend their royal treatment far beyond the walls of the nostalgic Green Mill. 
.··~~:· 

concert review 

ekoostik hookah lives up to its name 
0 
ne of the best-kept secrets from 
students at Notre Dame is 
Ekoostik Hookah. The band 
originated in the early 90s near Columbus. Ohio. when a few musicians met on an open stage at a local bar. Thus began a sweeping barrage of tours spanning to the coasts and including many cities in between. With a sound comprising of a blend of styles, band members Dave Katz (keyboards, vocals, guitar). Steve Sweney (lead guitar), Cliff Starbuck (bass), Eric Lanese (drums). and newcomer Ed McGee (rhythm guitar, vocals) claim their music is "a blend of as many styles as possible." While many lis­teners relate them to the Grateful Dead both for their sounds and fans, they aren't riding on the coattails of Jerry Garcia's death. Other noticeable influ­ences include bluegrass, hard-rock, folk and acid-rock. Popular for their free­flowing jams and laid-back c1-mcert envi­ronment, the band remains a grass-roots band which refuses commercialization. 
At the Nov. 26 concert in Toledo, Ohio, I got to talk with them about issues that surround the band, addition of Eel including a new McGee. McGee, a album expected to frequent guest be released in musician who has January. The band known the others has released three for years, replaced previous albums, guitarist John one of which is a Mullins, who was two-disc, live released for his album. However, "inability to per­the band has yet to form to his capabili­sign with a major ties." record label and Mullins since doesn't foresee a started another deal soon. band while McGee 

"Anything we has grown into the agree to has got to new role rapidly be on our terms. ·and continues to We want to be in add to the band's control of ourselves renewed sound. and we enjoy the With the new album 
way we're doing things now," Katz said. 
This attitude reflects a devotion to their dedicated fans. The new album, Where the Fields Grow Green, is a studio effort marking the first release since the 
that they hoped to achieve a more unrestrained studio sound. 
However, just as many bands like them, Ekoostik Hookah is best live. The concert in Toledo was no exception, with the band opening with many familiar album tunes to warm up the crowd, and moving into newer material. When asked what makes a great show, the band replied that it depends on the crowd reaction primarily and secondly. the feel of the musician's performance. 
"It seems like (the performance) is never perfect for everybody. but if we can tell we're all on and the crowd is alive, it makes a great show," said McGee. 
Of all the performances, the band exerts special attention to a three-day, biannual outdoor music festival named Hookahville, held on Labor Day and Memorial Day weekends. 
Despite their unsigned status, don't be fooled. Ekoostik Hookah is a fantastically talented and experienced band who's refreshing motivation is the music and not the money. As the band looks anx­iously to the future and their new album. Ekoostik Hookah hopes to expand their grass-roots following by traveling to new cities; who knows. South Bend could be next. 
metallica Reload 
T
he latest installment in the Metallica legacy is true to its name. Reload is a definite continua­tion of the band's previous release, Load, which came out in June '96. Originally, Load was supposed to be a two-disc set, consisting of the 14 tracks from Load and the 13 featured on Reload. All 27 songs were already written when they went into the studio. However, at this time, Metallica was invited to headline Lollapalooza, so they decided to record half of the double album and release it so they support it on tour for the summer. After finishing with Lollapalooza and their album tour, they returned to the studio to record the remaining songs, the result being Reload. 
The new album is closer to Metallica of old, but it still resembles the Load album. Reload has some quality songs. "Fuel," "Unforgiven II," "Better Than You," "Bad Seed" and "Devil's Dance" are some great tracks which have flashes of brillance. On the slower side, "Where the Wild Things Are" and "Low Man's Lyric" are definitely worth listening to. Although some critics and fans alike do not like Marianne Faithful's backing vocals on "The Memory 

:.'cCc~'c:,'c 112 
(out of five stars) 
Remains," it adds to the song, especially after having seen the video. 
Many of the songs on this reflect that of "Ain't My Bitch" and "King Nothing" from Load. "Prince Charming" is easily the fastest song on the album. "Slither," "Carpe Diem Baby" "Attitude," and "Fixxxer" fill out the rest of the album. "Fixxxer" goes longer than eight minutes. which is pretty nor­mal considering there are live songs running over six minutes. 
For those of you who have been waiting for a new Metallica album, it's here. If you were expecting the old Metallica, which-was true heavy metal, you may be disappointed. Those who enjoyed the so-called "Black Album" and Load, you will want to get Reload. Even if you haven't liked the way Metallica has been heading, Reload takes fans back to their early days and, at the same time, helps in the transi­tion to the "new" Metallica. 
by Kevin McAbee 
! 
~ ' • • • I = 
: • .! J I ' ! : ­

J 
I ; I .: 1 I f ­
-r­
'

Thursday, December 4, 1997 
page 13 
various· artists 

NO STARS 

Here Come The Irish (out of five stars) 
T
he advertising copy of this monstrosity opti­mistically uses the word "music" to describe the album, and in similar dubious manner boasts the presence of a "sensational new hit." Upon careful examination both claims are revealed as unacquainted with reality, and the unfortunate listen­er is exposed to legions of horrors which pound the suffering ears with a highly toxic arsenal of dismal songwriting and misguided attempts at tunes. The nightmare begins with the so-called hit "Here Come The Irish", a risible effort at invoking majesty set to a heinous arrangement including flute and bagpipe samples, foreshadowing the long trek downhill which follows. Lyrical gems later on include "the winds of change are blowing as tradition leads the way," "the pilgrims follow by sacred waters," and the immortal "Mister Knute Rockne/master chemist/five great sea­sons with record unblemished." 
If you have not already guessed, all songs are relat­ed to ND football and attempt to convey what is some­times known as the spirit of this place. That the album fails spectacularly in this task is not only because the words appear to have been written by a particularly inarticulate 5-year-old, but also because of its crass commercialism and surreal attempt to provide a style for every potential listener. Mainstream pop, rap, country, soft rock and all varia­tions of the preceding are forced to cling together in an uncomfortable embrace, the result of this ill­advised policy being a miserable excuse for a record and one that is essentially unlistenable. Its mawkish sentiments and tacky sheen help produce a series of three-minute blunders which will provoke only laugh­ter from those not associated with this school and embarrassment amongst those who are. The mind boggles at how this hapless project was ever started and its only saving grace is that after a painful hour it eventually finishes, a termination which finds the lis­tener in an anguished state of disbelief and torment. As the fictional copy claims, this is the "perfect gift idea." For a more complete picture add the words "for the deaf." 
by Julian Elliott 
•

lyY Apartment Life *~*~ 
(out of five stars) 
I 
t may be better to look good than to feel good, but thought I could do something good/ but I'll never do Ivy does them both. Proving that you can have that again." both style and substance, Ivy's second release, On the jazzy, lounge influenced "I Get the Message," Apartment Life, is as cool, chic and inviting as a Ivy sounds more like members of The Cardigans have one-bedroom loft in SoHo. taken over the band's instruments. Toe-tapping and 
Sure there are tons of female-fronted bands around. uplifting, this track demonstrates Ivy's versatility as Do we really need another? The answer is a resound­well as their knack for deceptively masking heartsick ing yes with one listen to this syrupy sweet pop con­lyrics in sugar coated melodies. However, the mem­fection. Think Stereolab meets The Sundays meets bers of Ivy can also bate their souls unabashedly Lush. It's that good. when they want to, as in the despondent "Baker." 
Supermodelesque lead singer Dominique Durand Complete with violin and trumpet, this song is perfect provides the gorgeous vocals once again and is for solitary walks on a rainy day. And on "You Don't backed by the formidable talents of guitarist Andy Know Anything," Durand unleashes her fury on a for­Chase and bassist Adam Schlesinger. On Apartment mer lover: "You let me down again/ You drove me to Life, Ivy seems to be piecing together the tattered the end/ And it's so strange the way you've changed/ emotional vignettes of everyone's existence. There is You know me welV Now I can tell you don't know any­the mid-tempo, upbeat ''I've Got a Feeling," where thing." Durand yearns: "Baby, what can I do?/ I've been out Eclectic and surprising as life itself, Ivy's second searching for you/ I've got a feeling all I need is a love outing provides a welcome set of urban hymns for the that's true." Meanwhile, the disquieting "Never Do introspective city dweller. That Again" extracts the simple, yet complex feelings that are experienced when a relationship is in tur­
Courtesy of Atlantic Records moil: "I hate it when it's quiet/ It means that you're by Anthony Limjuco hurt/ It gets so complicated/ 'til I can't pretend/ I 
IW 

. 

upcotning concerts !n the area 
The Jesus Lizard 
Portis head 
The Wallflo"wers 
Bob Dylan 
Chumbwamba 
Our Lady Peace 
Ekoostik Hookah 
Barenaked Ladies 
Rusted Root 
Poi Dog Pondering 

Jon Spencer Blues Explosion 
Toad The Wet Sprocket 
Oasis 

1. 
Pixies-Death To The Pixies 

2. 
Sweep The Leg Johnny-4, 9, 21, 30 

3. 
Bjork-Homogenic 

4. 
Portishead-Portishead 

5. 
Polvo-Shapes 

6. 
The Sundays-Static & Silence 

7. 
Various-The Duran Duran Tribute Album 

8. 
Mike Watt-Contemplating The Engine Room 

9. 
Chisel-Set You Free 

10. 
The Verve-Urban Hymns 


Dec. 6 Dec. 10 Dec. 12 Dec. 13-14 Dec. 13 Dec. 15 Dec. 27 Dec. 29 Dec.28 
• Dec. 30-31 Dec. 31 Dec. 31 Jan. 18 
;~*;.:· 


Mabel's (Chicago) Riviera Theatre (Chicago) Hill Auditorium (Ann Arbor, M I) Metro (Chicago) Clutch Cargo's (Pontiac, M I) Piere's (Fort' Wayne, IN) Magic Bag (Ferndale, MI) Riviera Theatre (Chicago) State Theatre (Detroit, MI) Aragon Ballroom (Chicago) Metro (Chicago) House Of Blues (Chicago) Rosemont Horizon (Rosemont, IL) 
1. 
Various-Tibetan Freedom Concert 

2. 
Tsunami-A Brillant Mistake 

3. 
G. Love & Special Sauce-Yeah, It's That Easy 

4. 
Cure-Galore 


5. 
The Verve-Urban Hymns 

6. 
The Sundays-Static & Silence 

7. 
The Pixies-Death To The Pixies 

8. 
Cod In Salsa-Ring Bell For Yardman 

9. 
Bjork-Homogenic 


10. 
Ida-Ten Small Paces 


• 

The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT Thursday, December 4, 1997
page 14 
. f'.~ 
_;. 
_,. 
.... 
CAMBODIA 

Population: 1 0.4 million londmines: 9 million Amputees: 1 in every 
236 persons 
WE MIGHT AS WEll CALL IN THE CAVALRY TO FIGHT BALLISTIC MISSILES 
KOREA is the reason given for our reluctance to sign onto the ban. The US military has heavily mined the border between North and South Korea to deter a North Korean invasion. These minefields, they say, are what keeps the peace. This seems to make sense, until you find that their predictions for the nature of a North Korean invasion are heavily skewed to make those mines seem to be effective. Independent experts who have these models cringe at the way they were set up. 
In fact, mines are effective only when both armies fight from behind fixed fronts. No one has fought this way since World War I. In modern warfare, the front is fluid, shifting, making it just as likely that we'd run back across our own minefields as the enemy. 
If they're not useful, why does the military want them? The Pentagon feels that humanitarian and civilian concerns have no place in deciding what weapons they use. This would be news to our Founding Fathers, who wisely placed the military under civilian command. Given enough pressure from Congress and the president, the Pentagon would have no choice but to drop this most recent fa~ade and acquiesce. 
HOPING WE'RE NOT KNOWN BY THE COMPANY WE KEEP 
The United States military resists the call of nearly 120 nations to ban landmines. Our partners, Canada, Britain, France, and Australia, and all but one country of NATO are strongly behind a ban on landmines. Even Russia calls for a ban. 
The United States, for its part, sides with Iran, Iraq, Libya and Cuba against a landmine ban . 
The Vietnam Veterans of America Foundation is the coordinator of the Nobel Peace Prize-winning International Campaign to Ban Londmines (ICBL). The ICBL includes among its members The International Committee of the Red Cross, CARE, Human Rights Watch, Save the Children, Physicians Without Borders, the Land mine Survivors' Network, World Vision and aver 100 other nongovernmental and humanitarian organizations. In Ottawa today, more more than 120 notions are gathering to sign the first treaty to ban the manufacture, stockpile and use of antipersonnel londmines. This landmark agreement will be struck without the cooperation of the United States. 
THE GLOBAL
( .)
LANDMINE CRISIS 
WHERE ADAY WITHOUT STEPPING ON ALANDMINE IS ADAY SOMEONE ELSE MUST HAVE. 
NOWHERE .TO LIVE, PART 1: CAMBODIA 
In fields and meadows in 68 countries around the world, 11 0 million landmines lie Jn wait. They're the last ambush of forgotten wars. A cease-fire may end a conflict, but when civilians return to their homes, what awaits them may be worse than war. In Cambodia alone there are nearly 9 million landmines, enough for about every other person with quite a few left over. Having been subjected to nearly every atrocity known to mankind in the last fifty years, Cambodia's landmines may have been planted by any number of fighting factions, from Americans to Vietnamese to Khmer Rouge. No country in the world has more disabled people per capita than Cambodia. The strain on its economy and medical system is tremendous. 
NOWHERE TO LIVE, PART 2: OTHER COUNTRIES IN THE LANDMINE ATLAS 

ANGOLA 
AFGHANISTAN Population: 11 million Population: 23 million 
Land mines: 9 million Landmines: 9 million 
Why: Civil warfare dating Why: Soviet invasion, 1 979; from early 1 970s. near-continuous war since. 
RIGHT UP THERE WITH NAPALM: SOLDIERS' OPINION OF LANDMINES 
Soldiers on the front lines are univers'!l in their hatred of landmines. And they have reason: In the Vietnam War, the first casualty was a soldier who stepped on a mine. By war's end, landmines had caused 33% of all casualties-more than any other weapon system. Fast forward 30 years. The Persian Gulf War. Our soldiers once again face landmines, and once again they cause 1/3 of all casualties. In Bosnia and Somalia, same story. What's worse, 
well over 90% of the mines our soldiers stepped on in Vietnam were wholly or partially built by US companies. This is not a problem of a distant world. It's our problem. 
Casualties Annually .... 26,000 Mines Planted, Ann'l .. 2 million Casualties Every .... 20 minutes Landmines, Total ... 11 0 million Mines Removed, Ann'l. . 200,000 Countries Backing a Ban ... 1 20 
THE NOTRE DAME CAMPAIGN TO BAN LANDMINES 
Recently Notre Dame students staged a demonstration in support of a global ban on landmines. At the Notre Dame-West 
* 

Virginia football game, thousands of students held a single shoe aloft during the national anthem as a sign of solidarity 
with landmine victims. Why a shoe? In areas heavily planted with landmines, some provision stores stock only single shoes. 
As Vietnam Veterans and coordinators of the 
International Campaign to Ban Landmines, we are pleased and honored that the students chose to expess their patriotism during the national anthem. We welcome them to the Campaign. 
Our thanks to them for forming the Notre Dame Campaign to Ban Landmines in such a short period of time--less than eight days. We encourage them to continue to raise support during the coming year, upcoming sports seasons and further as attempts continue to enact a landmine ban. 
THANKS TO: MIKE DEEMER JEN JABLONSKI ELIZABETH MORIARTY MARIA EIDETIS KEONI KUOHA AINE SKOW KRIS BREE SARAH FURGE MAUREEN LANE JOHN THOMPSON REBEKKAH BRODHACKER SUSIE GRANDIN INGRID LOUW KELLY WILLIAMS SHAWN BROZ HELENA HOFBAUER ANNE ~\ONAGHAN REBECCA WEINSTEIN  
THE NOTRE DAME CAMPAIGN TO BAN LANDMINES THE VIETNAM VETERANS OF AMERICA FOUNDATION SOUTH BEND 243·4922 (888) BAN·MINES WWW.VVAF.COM '~ A1 One shoe in the air, one hand on the heart. IN ! WORLD OF 110 MilLION l!NDMINES, ONlY WE CAN TAKE ASTINO. ~  

I I ' : =-I I , I • ' : I I I ; I I I I r f ­
i • ! I ' , I f " ' 

'i ; >• :1 \ -· . h 

INCOMPLETION! 
It is 4th and goal, time is running out, and the United States cannot find even its way to 
·. 
the stadium. Today the U.S. should be in Ottawa, Canada to join over 120 countries in signing the international treaty to ban landmines. The ban on landmines will save thou­sands of lives every year, but it is incomplete without the U.S. 
As a world leader, the U.S. has a duty to raise the ethical standards of others. When our government abandons this responsibility, we have a duty to call our country to a higher · moral level. The U.S. can sign the treaty to ban landmines at any time, but President ~­Clinton needs to hear your voice. Learn about the issue ii check the internet, ask your professors, and talk with your rectors. Form an opinion, and tell your elected officials to support the ban on landmines! 
. 
The Notre Dame Campaign to Ban Landmines 
•One Shoe in the Air, One Hand on the Heart• 
For more information, contact: 
Susie Grandin at 243-4922 or Mike Deemer at 631-4862 
U.S. Campaign to Ban Landmines at http://www.vvaf.org/landmine/index.html 
Notify your elected representatives of your opinion: 
The Hon. \VilliamJefferson Clinton U.S. Senator Dan Coats President of the United States ofAmerica 404 Russell Senate Office Building The White House Washington, DC 20510 1600 Pennsylvania Ave. (202) 224-5623 Washingtion, DC 20500 
U.S. Senator Richard Lugar U.S. Representative Tim Roemer 306 Hart Senate Office Building 217 North Main Street Washington, DC 20510 South Bend, IN 46601 (202) 224-4814 
The Notre Dame Campaign to Ban Landmines is sponsored by the Center for Social Concerns and supported by the Vietnam Veterans ofAmerica Foundation. Special thanks to Father Richard 
JJ 

Warner and Campus Ministry. 
\ .. \ . 

page 16 The Observer • SPORTS Thursday, December 4, 1997 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day clas­
sifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 3 cents per character per day. including • all space.s. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
Classifieds 

-· 
) 
.. 
NOTICES 
000 THE COPY SHOP 000 LaFortune Student Center 
Store Hours Mon.-Thur.: 7:30 a.m.-Midnight Fri.: 7:30 a.m.-7:00p.m. Sat.: Noon-6:00p.m. Sun.: Noon-Midnight (closed home football Sat.'s) 
Phone 631-COPY 
Spring Break '98 Cancun, Jamaica, Bahamas. & Florida. Group Discounts & Free Drink Parties! Sell Trips, Earn Cash &Go Free! 1-800-234-7007 www .endlesssummertours .com 

ILOST & FOUND[ 
ID Bracelet with the name "Michelle" found on the field at the last home game. Call Katie @ 284-4163 to claim 
LOST: PAIR OF BROWN LEATHER GLOVES ON NOV. 19. CALL NICK 246-1146. 

Can you help? NICE HOMES FOR NEXT SEMES­LOST *CAMERA* TER OR NEXT SCHOOL YEAR Kodak Cameo, probably around 277-3097 fall break -> maybe at West Quad Field during IH football?!? Furn Rm $325/mo incl utilities, *PLEASE* call Nicole @ 0565 w/ washer/dryer. Privacy! Karen 284­any clues. 6257 (day) 273-4517 (eve) • 
••••** ******fl * * * *........**......*.* * ••*** Turtle Creek-2 bedroom CLASS RING FOUND ON NORTH Sublet Jan-May QUAD! Free furniture/bed CALL 634-1101 TO CLAIM Call T J 243-5327 
. Room available for next semester 
WANTED 
·

I I 
L.-----------' 
HELP!! 3 female roomates have ticks to Friday's PHISH show in Cleveland, but no ride! If you have extra room, let us know, PLEASE! X4097 
FOR RENT 

WALK TO CAMPUS 2·5 BEDROOM HOMES $195/PERSON 232·2595 
BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY 219 291 7153 
6 BDRM HOME NEXT FALL.272­6551 
4 ND students as roomates. 1 mile from campus. Call 273-2910. Ask for Noelle 
ROOMS IN PRIVATE HOME FOR FOOTBALL WEEKENDS AND OTHER ND-SMC EVENTS. 
VERY CLOSE TO CAMPUS -5 MIN. DRIVE OR 15-20 MIN. WALK. 243-0658. 
1,2 & 3 BDRM HOMES.GILLIS PROPERTIES. 272-6551 
Studio Apt. Large, completely turn., 1st fir., 1.5 mi. north of campus. 
$500/mo incl. utilities. To the right tenant, rent & garage parking . negotiable. 219-277-2211. 


1,2,&3 BDRM HOMES. NEAR CAMPUS. AVAIL. NOW. GILLIS PROPERTIES 272-6551 
FOR SALE 
Near Campus -1338 Miner St. 2 BR Enclosed Front Porch. New Roof, Siding & Carpet. Central Air & Full Basement $44,900 1-800-382-2952 
2 Extra-Long Twin Bed/Box Spring & Frame Sets -$125.00 each. Small Square Restaurant Table, Brown -$20.00. Large Artificial Christmas Tree -$40.00. Call 631­1354 or 243-0260. 
Brand New Computers -200MHz, 32 MB RAM, 33.6k modem, 1.6 GB hard drive, 20X CD-ROM, Sound Card, 60W speakers, 14" monitor. $1250 +shipping. Call Julie at (970)221-0494. 
1987 Buick Century, V6, Automatic, 4 door, power windows, seats, & locks. One owner. reliable, great car. $2,400/best offer. Call now 631-6436 
89 Honda Civic Dx,V.Ciean,New Tires, 109k, $3400/BO 2773254. 

• ~-~&rffrimmJ~!t11!Jr!JW.mliifriJ~~ 
'  ~~~ 
.  
.  BOOK SEARCH  ~~  

• Used, rare and out~of~print ~ books ~ 
• Initial cost of $2.00 ~ >~ • Nationally ~ circulated ad ~ 
• 
Success rate of 50% ~ 

• 
Time Required: 2 months ~ 


~ 

ERASMUS BOOKS ~ Open noon to six ~ Tuesday through Sunday m 1027 E. Wayne ~ South Bend, IN 46617 ~ (219) 232~8444 1 
~ 
!J<!·~~[!] 

PERSONAL 
000 Looking for a unique gift? Bring in your favorite pictures and we'll create a personalized COLOR COPY CALENDAR!!! 
THE COPY SHOP LaFortune Student Center 
Would you like a tossed salad today?????? 
my physics test will not be cleaning my room. guess my roommate will have to do it... 
Hey Sweet Daisy! 

PGD ROCKS MY WORLD 
john's pattened answer to the homework question 
ND Inquisition http://rosenberg-3a.student.nd.edu We made Griffin do it 
PANTHER! DOES THIS CATCH YOUR ATTENTION? bonehead 
This is not Disney. Japanese Animation Thurs -DBART 141 -7:30 
000 THE COPY SHOP 000 LaFortune Student Center 
..J High-Speed Copies 
..J Canon Color Laser Copies 
..J Digital Color Printing 
.,J Binding & Laminating 
..J Public Fax Service 631-FAX1 Phone 631-COPY 
This is not Disney. Japanese Animation Thurs -DBART 141 -7:30 
Welcome to DART, Direct Access Registration by Telephone 
andrea is still the champ. 
don antonio, wherefore art thou? I will be in your neighborhood this weekend, but alas! with another. I will be thinking of you though, just next-door ... 
mel, --"I know!" 

the PE pyre kitchen produces the BEST cookies. 
i'm sorry, I did not get your pass­code. please try again. 
JAZZMAN's 
NITE CLUB 
525 N. Hill Street 233-8505 
THURSDAY COLLEGE NIGHTS 
DECEMBER 4TH FEATURING 
TASH I STATION 
WITH A SPECIAL GUEST BAND T.B.A. Doors open 8:00 p.m. 21 and over with proper IDs $3.00 with Student ID -$4.00 without Off Duty Uniform Police Security­Lighted Parking 
Coming Wednesday, Dec. lOth Last Day of Class Party 
Save 1.00 with this ad Thursda before 11:00 .m. 
Join tl.e College RepuLii«:ans and College Dewno«:rals in tl.eir 
FALL DEBATE 
THURSDAY, DECEMBER 4 
7:15 P.M. IN 126 DEBARTOLO 
Topics To Be Debated: 
Standardized Testing United States' Involvement in Russia and Israel 
The Audience will have the opportunity to ask questions following each segment of the debate. Questions? Call 631-9190 All Students and Faculty Are Encouraged To Attend. 
~aturday. CV~e~mb~r 6. 1997 7:30pm Washington 1iall 
JJr~-~how r~e~ption from 6:00-7:00pm 
Tickets on sale at LaFortune Info Desk Tickets bought before Sat. $5, Tickets bought on the day of the show $8 
Sponsored by the University of Notre Dame's Asian American Association 



Thursday, December 4, 1997 
The Observer • SPORTS page 17 
• fOOTBALL • HOCKEY 
Conditioning program Notre Dame signs two recruits 
Special to The Observer three seniors. Inman will bring solid all­
to change for Irish Cornelius, a former high around skills to the Irish for­The University of Notre Dame school teammate of Notre ward line. 
Special to The Observer 
On Nov. 17, after Bob Davie outlined his long-term plan for the Irish strength and condition­ing program. Kirk Woolfolk, strength and conditioning coor­dinator, submitted his resigna­tion. 
"Due to the direction they wanted me to head. it didn't fit in with my philosophy," Woolfolk told The South Bend Tribune on Tuesday. "Given my choices, this is the best thing for me and my family. I felt like I came in and did what they asked me to come in and do." 
Woolfolk, who was chosen by Lou Holtz following the 1994 season, emphasized speed rather than physical strength in his Olympic-style conditioning 
program. 
Yet, Davie, when questioned about the strength and condi­tioning program in November implied that the program was headed in a different direction. 
"I do think we need to get big­ger," Davie told the Tribune. "I do think we need to get stronger, and we certainly evaluate every phase of this program top to bot­
""-'-v--...._ tom, so we're looking at every­

~'Vw~MN~"'-"'OA..M~._~;.J. thing completely." 
"I believe in my philosophy," said Woolfolk on Tuesday. "If they want to change and go in a 
i 
choice." There was no official announcement following 
~C~I~~~~!!fi;i]J different direction, that's their 
·D!~~~~~~~~~~~MJ Woolfolk's resignation, and he has no immediate plans for the future. "I had a good stay," he said. 
hockey team has signed defenseman Sam Cornelius and center David Inman to national letters of intent during the fall early signing period. 
"Both of these players will add considerable skill to our program and will be a great addition to what should be a strong returning group in 1997-98," said head coach Dave Poulin, whose current 27­player Irish squad includes just 
8-ball 
continued from page 20 
eight minutes left in the con­test, and Garrity was whistled for the second time on a foul away from the ball with six minutes left. That complicated matters for the Irish as 6-foot-9 Hans Rasmussen was forced to guard the 7-footer. Jason Collier. Collier finished the con­test with 17 points on 60 per­cent shooting. 

Every Thursday A\\-You-Can-Eat Pizza & Pasta 
~'-for $5.Q!)_
~;~ ·30 m.• 
(f •6:00p.m. -8. P· 
· d & Saturday

Taking reservations for Fn ay 
Fightin' Irish since he was a wee one! 
<LAFORTUNE> 
08:00pm $3.00 

08:00pm Christian Parilla 09:00pm Stamper Bob 
09:30pm Off the Wall Blues Band with Dave Myers Dame freshman left wing Dan Carlson, should provide an added boost to an Irish defen­sive unit that currently includes two juniors, five sophomores and two freshmen. 
A strong skater who is noted for his combination of physical play and offensive ability, the 6-0, 190-pound lefthander will be expected to challenge for a spot among Notre Dame's top six defensemen. 
"We did battle but we deviat­ed from the game plan and we started to come apart at the seams," MacLeod explained. 
Hickey, forced to just 29 min­utes of action, chipped in eight points and five rebounds, and forward Derek Manner scored nine points and had five rebounds. Sophomore guard Keith Friel continued to pro­duce off the bench with his sharp shooting as he added eight points to the Irish effort. 
Though the season is just five games old, MacLeod has 
Currently a member of the Wexford Raiders, Inman totaled 32 goals and 56 assists in 43 games during the 1996­97 season while earning the rookie of the year and scholas­tic player of the year awards for the Metro Junior A Central Division. 
Poulin said that the Irish will continue to look for players in anticipation of the spring sign­ing period. 
already seen improvement in the play of his team. 
"Overall if I look at and com­pare it to the Marquette game, we're much further along," MacLeod said. 
"We did a lot of good things and Indiana is a very talented team and not an easy team to play," MacLeod continued. "But we did do some good things and there are good things we can take away from this game. We have to regroup and start preparation for Pittsburgh and get ready for the Big East." 
..,.,..,, . .,.>'·· .. i·'"'." ".,., nesdays (;~,m ,9 to 10 'aA'•kw;on,dtf ; ill.Lot\us, ,,CaU •Maureen x428l Or S~f}phanie at 
b#< JG!14l .~th anyJ:tuestions~. 
~h~~ ~jililt.";y·,·. Synchronilifli,\t§wimming 
practices are > held on ·· Mondays and W~dnesdays . from 8 to l() p,m. and· ,,Sundays from 10 a.m. to 1 
-

ACOUSTIC CAFE 09:00-12:00 IN LE HUDDLE THURSDAY FREE QUARTER DOGS 
1 \ 
I. 
l 
page 18 The Observer· SPORTS Thursday, December 4, 1997
i 
-
1 ( Title IX provides opportunities for female athletes 
i! By SHANNON RYAN career scorer for the University MIAA conference is underway the newest trend in advertising, Title IX to help us out," Travis I'It Spans Writer of Connecticut women's basket­and is a beneficial part of only three percent ·is covered said. "Co-ed schools have bet­
,. 
\ ball team, thought she had shot improving the athletic pro­by the media. On the covers of ter equipment and facilities." I· Warning: women who exer­her last basket on a team as gram. Sports Illustrated in 1995, only Without athletic scholarships, 
i. cise are likely to grow small she saw the clock wind down to "This conference member­six women graced the front Saint Mary's faces an increas­I '. tumors on their ankle joints zero in the 1995 national ship will enhance the opportu­page. One was a swimsuit ing battle to retain athletes. 
,I '' 
~ comparable to those on the legs championship game. nity for student athletes," Jan model, two were widows of "We're going to stick with theII of young overworked horses. Luckily she was wrong, and Travis, director of athletics and baseball players, and three Division III philosophy," Travis I'I I i I As bizarre as it may sound, today women are enjoying pro­recreation, said. "Along with were the victims of violence. said. "We believe that athletics
I II this was the opening of an arti­fessional sports and Olympic our new president's (Marilou Although Notre Dame is are an extension of the class­
l: cle in an 1827 issue of careers. The Women's Eldred) new vision and support attempting to close the gap in room. I don't sec (athletic) American Farmer Magazine. National Basketball Association of sports, student-athletes will the opportunity of male and scholarships in the future." 
'' 
\ ~ Since then women have began last year with 3.7 million receive the athletic as well as female sports, there are almost But with the new administra­'. fought a long battle to prove households watching the open­academic recognition they double the number of male ath­tion, Belles' athletics are bound
I 
i they can compete successfully er. Females also comprised deserve." letes to females. to improve. in sports. Female athletes have 4,000 Olympic athletes in Saint Mary's is currently In February, the athletics "President Eldred has given I shown the only thing they have Atlanta, and in Japan's 1998 enjoying its first year of cross department will meet to make us new energy," Travis stated. 
I 1 
in common with horses is the Olympics American women will country and will have its first further commitments to its ath­"She understands the role ofl! ability to run fast and work attempt to win the gold for the season of golf next year. letic women. athletics in the total liberal arts hard. first female Olympic hockey However, even with the leaps "We've been historically atmosphere." 
Despite the fact that women team. and bounds made in female improving," Conboy said. Sports analysts and experts did not even have sports bras With a striking rise in female sports, equality is still a goal. "We'd like the percentage of guarantee that female athletics until 1978 when runner Hinda sports participation and oppor­Twenty-five years after the women athletes to mirror the are not a passing trend but will Miller sewed together two jock tunity, Notre Dame and Saint passage of Title IX, fewer than undergrad population. With soon be an ingrained part of 
I straps, the strides female ath­Mary's have followed the trend 20 colleges are in compliance the rise in female population, American society. letes have made are remark­in improving women's athletics. with it. Seventy-seven percent we're chasing a moving target. One fact that proves that
I: 
I 
able. In 1977, Notre Dame women of recruiting money is allotted We're going to try to set a mini­women's athletics are a seri­
I 
I 
In 1970, only one in 27 high had only three sports to choose, to men and only two percent of mum number on men's teams ous, permanent, and growing school girls were varsity ath­no scholarships, and traveled the athletic budget is spent on and a maximum number on popularity is that one can nowI letes. Today the number has by van. Next year, with the female sports. Even women women's teams." laugh at the works of Dr. reached 2.4 million with one addition of crew, Notre Dame who go on to a professional Although Title IX promoted Dudley Sargent, physical edu­
! out of every three playing at will offer 11 varsity sports for sports career will earn only Notre Dame's women's pro­cation specialist, from 18 70: the varsity level. females (the same allowed to $20,000 a season, a fraction of grams, it cannot be applied to "Women as a class cannot Because of greater female men) and almost 90 female Michael Jordan's pay. Saint Mary's. stand a prolonged mental or 
I!~ : 
activity and Title IX, which sports scholarships. Several Even though professional "Because we're an all­physical strain as well as men." made it a law to offer equal female soccer, basketball, and women's athletics seem to be women's school, we don't have Ha. lla. 
sports opportunity despite gen­fencing athletes also boast of der, colleges and universities being on the Olympic develop­! \' have been forced to promote ment team. 
'I '. 
'I female athletes. In women's Attendance at the women's 
! 
sports, scholarships are up 70 soccer tournament exceeded
' 
percent, while the salary of projections with the Final Four 
coaches for women's teams has games selling out. 
jumped by more· than 45 per­"Since 1988, we've taken 
cent in the 1990s. Females major strides in female pro­
also comprise 55 percent of all grams," Missy Conboy, associ­
volleyball players, 43 percent ate athletic director, said. 
of runners, 41 percent of soc­"Soccer, softball, and golf were 
cer players, and participate in added in '88. Indoor and out­
a greater variety of sports then door track were added in 1991. 
men. This year, we're featuring 
With the recent concentration women's lacrosse, and next of women's athletics, more year we'll have rowing. A lot opportunities have also sprout­has changed." ed. Saint Mary's is also building 
Rebecca Lobo, a 2,000-point in athletics. Its first year in the 
I. 
1' 
1' 
! : ~~www~~w~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ww~w~~
I. 
! ; ~ "Aa You Wish" <§?
w c£> 
I 
! : : Imports 
~ 

Sweaters, Tapestries, Jewelry, 
~ 


£' Accessories, and Much More! 
~ 

Guatemala • Bali • Mexico • Brazil • ~ Thailand • India • Ecuador w ~ ~ INCREDIBLE PRICESI ~ 
~ GREAT CHRISTMAS GIFTSI ~ 

w
CLEARANCE SALE! Unbelievable Bargain Corner! <£> 
•Proceeds fmm this corner help send c£' 
6 Guatemalan children to school. ~ Other Donations Greatly Appreciated c@3 
LaFortune -Room 108, Dec 1-6, 10-5 pm
~<£>~~~~<£>~~~~~~~~<£><£>~<£>~~~<£><£><£>~~<;i;
JI'P Swimming & Diving 
Cfhurs. Jri. P~e!ims 10:00 am d. S t D1vmg 1:00pm an a . Jinals 6:30pm I 
Dec. ~-6 Each Day 
I I
I~ 
I l 
f I ! 
I 

\ 
I; Rolfs Aquatic Center 


Women's Basketball vs. UCONN Sat. Dec. 6 12:00pm 
Jlt Hockey vs. Western Michigan Sat. Dec. 6 7:OOpm 



Thursday, December 4, 1997 The Observer • TODAY page 19 
MEN ABOUT CAMPUS DAN SULLIVAN YOUR HOROSCOPE 
Puzzle by Frances Hansen 




• 
FREE FOOD!!! Lots-o-fun 
The Florifla Evans Showhancl & H.evue pening for the Dunn Brother December 6th @ LaFun Ballroom 
9:00pm 
Come say goodbye to your favorite campus bands before they go abroad 
@ Cushing Auditorium Thurs. 10:30 pm Fri. & Sat. 8/10:30 pm Sl.OO 

HEY DAVE, ft'J!ND StGNt,VG lf/!5 PETJ//01'1 Fo l;t/ffilC/1 
f\1ATI ~/?I Ft=IN.?
,­

DILBERT 
t U5EO TO BE P~I.lJ THE. RUL£.R OF HECK. M'< PITO-\SPOON WAS FEAR£.0 C>'( ALL WHO COfV\MlTTE.D M.INOP.. 51NS. 
) 

CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 32 Bird with a cup-shaped
1 Victor of piano 
nest

antics 33 Razzing victim 
6 Doll's cry 
36 Bother, with "at" 

10 Lawn-­
37 Complicated

14 March sign 
love 15 Muezzin's call relationship to prayer 41 Half a cartoon duo
16 "0" in old radio lingo 42 Lampoon 11 Disneyland site 43 Hotel book1ng 44 Too much, 
19 Superbright 
musically

20 Wistful word 
47 Result of a 

21 Court call 
burning desire 22 Pretentious 48 Primitive 23 Virginia tourist hearing aid attraction 53 Cornered 26 From the 56 Litter critter beginning 57 Oscar--­28 Some Mozart 
Renta art 60 Lowdown 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
r-7+=+-:'-t::::-i 13 Counting-out 
heading start 
35 Vessel in a 

18 InIormer 
storm 22 17-Across, e.g 
38 "Orfeo ed 24 "High" time 
Euridice" god25 French novelist 39 PD.Q., updatedPierre 

40 "The Barber of ---+-+-+--1 26 Ward off 
Baghdad" tenor ---+-+--+--1 21 Bad dog 45 Vegetable29 On the rolls container 
• 

SURE ANY1Jitft/r:j 
HE/ !HAT R.EI11Nb5 0H YEAH, AND I'ivt 
Aries: Friends and co-workers 
-ro ~£1 HIM 0(}1. 
should be helpful today. You are
11E, DtD Yav (lET (lo;\I;VA HI/ 1/IAT
:J !lEAR He 
prese11ted with an opportunity to
BoTfL£ HARD 
DRW,K.S ON /He 
TIIAT (AI(£ I.IJ. YET! 10tll(jHT/ 
move ahead. There are no free 
E w 

61 Pooh-bah 63 Colorless liqueur 64 Nick and Nora's-1-=--t---i-+--+­pet 65 The taking of 
Troy, e.g. 66Goad 67 "To--it may 
concern" 68 Much of Chile 
DOWN 
1 Eight-time Sugar 1-=-+--+­Bowl champs, familiarly 
2 Viva-voce J Oscar, Grammy, Tony and Emmy 
winner 4 Recovers from 5 Suff1x with 
Peking 6 Muslim messiah 1 Kind of dye 8 Chateau­
Thierry's river 9Raggedy -­
30 Noted Finnish 1oDoctrine maker architect 11 '"Not on--!" 
31 "Skittle Players" 

("No way!") 
artist 12 Where gnus 33 Day--­snooze 
34 Financial page rides --be prepared to do your part. Taurus: With your energy flag­ging, the last thing you need is a day of stress and dilemma. Shadows of selfishness fall across a friendship. The coming of night may bring relief from all this. Gemini: This is a good day for communicating your ideas and planning for the future. You get people's attention, even if you are voicing an unpopular senti­ment. Everyone has the right to her opinion. Cancer: Make the most of your heightened emotions by spend­ing time with someone who feels the same way. Conduct a meeting of the souls in a quiet, safe place. The cruel world doesn't have to cross your threshold. Leo: You notice that a romance has turned into a relationship. There are certain responsibili­ties that come with permanence. Compromise can be the most loving of gestures. Virgo: All the hidden workings 

and unseen movements start becoming obvious. The more you understand, the more help­ful you can be to others. An opportunist tries to take advan­tage of the confusion. Libra: Inspiration and creativity rule your life today. Start a new system to improve your efficien­cy. Friends and family are amazed by your original approaches to long-standing issues and habits. Scorpio: If at all possible, do your work from home today. Go outside only on your own terms. It really is a jungle out there. Pointing your browser on the Internet is more profitable than steering your car along the road. Sagittarius: Take care of all communication related business in the morning. Unusual things may start happening as the day wears on. Keep your sense of humor sharpened and ready to use. Capricorn: Someone on the job has been annoying lately, but things will change today. Your best hope is that a situa­tion will not get any worse. Thoughts of home are a con­stant source of relief. Aquarius: With the Moon in Aquarius, you are swimming in a stream of energy. Morning and evening are productive, while afternoon is a time for receiving. Think of ways to tap into this overflow during your next dry spell. Pisces: Today is hectic for no apparent reason. The pace of events is likely to wear you down. If you can last until evening, you may find a second wind for some activity that you really enjoy. 
Answers to any three clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone: 1·900-420·5656 (75e per minute). Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1·888-7-ACROSS 
_,_ 

Wanted: Reporters, photographers and editors. Join The Observer staff. 
46 Settle up· 49 Refuse 50 Total 51 Fix a blockage 52 Urban transit 
org. 53 Per item purchased 
54 Kind of bus 55 TV clown 
58 Winter sport 59 Cathy of "East 
of Eden" 61 Handle clumsily 62 Hush-hush org. 




.. . a:_..·--.,....A 
.. -::OC----Wl3·-~~ 

page 20 Thu December 4, 1997 
• MEN'S BASKETBALL 
Hoosiers challenge Irish in intense match-up 

By JOE CAVATO Assistant Sporrs Editor 
Although the Indiana Hoosiers are not in the top 25 and are not picked to make a trip to the Final Four, Assembly Hall is still a hard place to come out of with a win. 
Bobby Knight still knows how to defend his home floor, especially from the Irish. Last night John MacLeod took his squad to Bloomington, but the hosts had the answer for everything Notre Dame threw their way as IU came out on top of a 91-80 final. Both teams now stand at 3-2 on the season. 
"It was a good effort and it was a very intense game," MacLeod said. 
Though play was physical at both ends, the home team found its way to the free throw line 20 times more than the visi­tors, and Pat Garrity did not have a free throw attempt in the contest. 
"That was the first time in four years that I can remember Pat Garrity playing 34 minutes and not attempting a free throw," MacLeod pointed out. "It was a bruising. physical game and he did shoot some outside shots but he was taking the ball to the basket." 
On 11 for 17 shooting Garrity finished with 24 points and eight rebounds, and foul trouble was the only thing that slowed down the superstar. 
After Indiana scored the first bucket, Notre Dame started what would be a series of first-half runs for both teams. Garrity hit his first two shots. igniting a 11-0 run and giving the Blue and Gold an 11-2 lead four and a half minutes into the game. 
Junior guard Antoni Wyche connected twice during the run as he finished with 17 points in just 25 minutes of play. Wyche was on fire, hitting six of his eight field goal attempts including three of five from three-point land. 
Indiana was up to the challenge pre­sented in the early going as the Hoosiers went on a 13-0 run to tie the game with 13 minutes left in the first half. 
"We got ofT to a roaring start but then got stuck there on 11 for awhile," MacLeod said. 
Notre Dame's offense began to stutter as 22 turnovers plagued the team. So did Indiana's bench. 
Bobby Knight benefited from 49 bench points as guard A.J. Guyton lead his team in scoring with 20 points, including three clutch three-pointers. Forward Andrae Patterson also provided a spark off the bench with 16 points in just 24 minutes of action. 
"They had a great deal of help ofT the bench that gave them a tremendous boost," Macleod noted. 
Despite the fact that Notre Dame shot a scintillating 64 percent from the field in the first half, the back-and-forth first half ended with the Hoosiers leading by a 44-39 mark. Indiana made its move in the first half as the Irish offense sput­tered when Garrity picked up a question­able foul away from the ball for his third foul. 
The shooting for both squads remained hot in the second stanza as Indiana fin­ished with 59 percent shooting and Notre Dame with 56 percent. The Hoosiers took advantage of their 32 chances from the charity strip, connect­ing on 25 of them, while the Irish only made 12 trips to the line, hitting nine. 
Indiana opened up a 57-47 lead in the second, but the hot shooting of Garrity and Wyche pulled the Irish to within four. Key in Notre Dame's offense was freshman Martin Ingelsby, who had 12 assists, six points and just three turnovers. 
"He didn't play like a rookie; he played like a seasoned college player," Macleod praised. "I was really impressed with him, but he only shot six times and we're going to need him to take some more looks at the basket." 
Notre Dame's only true center. Phil Hickey, picked up his fourth foul with 
see B-BALL I page I 7 

The Observer/John Daily 
Pat Garrity and the Irish offense couldn't hold out against the Hoosiers last night. 
• WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 

The Daily Turnovers and mistakes plagued the Notre Dame women's basketball team last night as it lost to Rutgers, 80-67. 
• 
........ 0 
.~ I I
-

Scarlet Knights ·wreak havoc for Irish offense 
By MIKE DAY Sports Editor 
The words "sloppy" and "suc­cessful" do not exactly go together to describe a basket­ball team. 
The Notre Dame women's basketball team found that out on Wednesday night, falling 80­67 to Hutgers in one of the more uglier games in recent memory. 
When the final buzzer sound­ed, the Irish had turned the ball over an eye-popping 32 times compared to 21 by the Scarlet Knights. 
To make matters worse, Notre Dame shot just 41 per­cent from the field. including a dismal 38 percent in the first half. 
Prior to last night's visit to New Jersey, junior co-captain game-high 24 points on 8-ol"-11 Sheila McMillen emphasized shooting. the importance of minimizing More importantly. Stewart mistakes at both ends of the stole the ball five times to set court. the tone for the swarming 

"Taking care of the ball and Scarlet Knight defense. playing fundamentally is what Equally impressive for we·need to do and not let their Rutgers was the play of point defense rattle us, said guard Natasha Pointer. McMillen. All she did was pour in 20 
Although McMillen pinpointed points, dish out 11 assists, and the key to the game well before come up with seven steals in 39 tip-on·. the Irish were unable to minutes of play. accomplish what they set out to Even with Pointer and do, allowing Hutgers to take Stewart wreaking havoc both control of the game in the sec-offensively and defensively, the ond half. Irish still had their opportuni-
After scoring 23 and 29 ties to win the game. points in the team's previous However, they were unable to two games, McMillen was held hit the critical shots down the to 10 points by the Scarlet stretch, and HutgBrs was able Knights. to hold on for a 13-point victo-
Guards Mollie Peirick and ,.. ry. Danielle Green did manage to Things don't get any easier contribute 17 points apiece, but for the Irish. The squad (3-2, the rest of the squad was held 0-12 in Big East play) now pre­to a measley 23 points com-pares to host the second­bined. ranked and defending Big East 
On the other sicie of the coin, champion Connecticut llusk.ies Rutgers' Shawnetta Stewart on Saturday afternoon at the came off the bench to tally a Joyce Center. 
:0 

., 
Men's Basketball at Western Michigan, 
; ~-December 5, 7 p.m. 
at Pittsburgh, 

•Title IX presents opportunities 
December 6, 4 p.m. 
Swimming, Notre Dame Invitational, 
see page 18
., 
Women's Basketball 
., ~ 
Today, 10 a.m.

vs. Connecticut, 
Conditioning coordinator resigns 
December 6, 12 p.m. 
•
Basketball, see page 17

SMC Roundball Classic, '!r/ ,, December 5, 3:30 p.m. ~ December 5 at NCAA Semifinals, 









