
-----~---~----~--------­


Tuesday, March 18, 1997 • Vol. No. 107 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
• Gt\MPUS liFE CouNcu. 
CLC plans focus on continuity 
By BRIDGET O'CONNOR be required Assistant News Editor and the last meeting Yesterday's Campus Life could be Council meeting began with a dedicated to debate over what the last clarifying mneting of the current council the impor­should address. tant issues 
The discussion centered for next around whether the council year's coun­should spend that meeting dis­cil which cussing the specifics of will begin GLND/SMC or focusing on con­April 1. tinuity and passing the issue on With that to tlw next year's CLC. issue settled, 
"I think the important thing the meeting for us to do as a body is to moved to a rommunicate to next year's discussion of cu: that this is an issue that the Reform IWC'Cls to be monitored." said Committee's studnnt body president Seth changes to MiliPr. the current 
Student senator Mark Leen structure of disagreed and expressed his student gov­desire to pose some questions ernment. about the organization to "We tried Fatlwr Tom Gaughan. rector of to make a 

Stanford llall. 
"Is this group having an el'l'nrt'?" asked Leon. He explained that he didn't feel that tlw information about the number of people at meetings 
The Observer/Joe Stark 

now chart of 
Reform Committee chair Brendan Kelly presented the 
the current
recently approved plan for a new Student Union to 
system and
the Campus Life Council at last night's meeting. This 
it was just
plan included clearly defined roles for each represen­
tative body. 

of tlw organization necessarily represented the nffect of the group. 
"Obviously, this is a campus issue that needs to be monitored," said Miller. "To put this group under the microscope a month after its creation wouldn't do justice to it." 
Off-Campus student senator Mike Urbine argued for a focus on continuity, saying, "It's an ongoing issue and it would be very naive to think that the incoming CLC would not address it." 
Sonw agreement was reached when the idea to write down any questions and submit them to thn CLC minutes for Gaughan to answer was -suggestml. 
In that way, a visit from Gaughan would not 
totally 
impossible," said Reform Committee chairman Brendan Kelly. 
Kelly presented overheads of the newly con­ceived Student Union and the changes it will bring to the current government system. 
Members raised questions in order to clarify points or address concerns about the new plan. 
Such questions included why there was no vote for the student body president in the stu­dent senate and the absence of a senate stand­ing committee to examine alcohol abuse. 
Separation of powers was cited as the reason for the president not having a vote in the senate and as to the alcohol policy. 
"It was not deemed something that needs to 
see CLC I page 4 

Art reflects womanhood in Women's Month Exhibition 
By HEATHER CROSS 
News Writer 

The opening reception for the Women's Month Exhibition at Saint Mary's was held last night in the LeMans lobby. The exhibit features art works from Saint Mary's students. 
The works rel1ect many aspects of womanhood, such as exploring faith, perceiving their place in society, and combat­ing exploitation. There are modern as well as traditional forms of expression, in media such as ceramics, oils, tapestry, textiles, metals, and mixed media. 
Each piece uses the media in a creative way to make a statement about women, by women. 
The exhibit is sponsored by the Saint Mary's Arts Club and the Student Academic Council in honor of Women's month. The works will be displayed in the lobby of LeMans hall until Friday. 
The Observer/Kim Michalik 
S
aint Mary's students viewed the vari­ous exhibits at last night's opening reception for the Women's Month Art Exhibition in the LeMans lobby. The works, which were interactive in some cases, incorporated various media in an effort to capture the essence of what is woman. 

page 2 The Observer • INSIDE Tuesday, March 18, 1997 
• INSIDE COlUMN 
How was your spring break? 
If one more person asks me how my break was, I will scream. Loudly. Throughout high school. those days of starry-eyed dreams of the future, I imagined my college days would be just 
like the pictures in the glossy brochures: groups of Stepford students pon­dering subjects like Portuguese art and archi­tecture under the wafting branches of ancient oak trees. 
So maybe my expecta­


tions were a wee bit high. Heather MacKenzie 
But Notre Dame has News Copy Editor 
forced me to grasp reality: 

everyone here is conversationally inept. 
Now before you cast me aside as a socially rejected nerd who feels that she is much more mentally capable than the morons she is forced to go to school with, let me clarify: I don't usual­ly analyze Napoleonic war strategies over my bowl of Lucky Charms. My problem is that I fmd myself and those I speak with always rehash the same topics again and again. And in prepara­tion for this intriguing column I have conducted an in-depth, statistical analysis of the four basic conversation groups at Notre Dame. 
Number one: The post-break blow-by-blow of hometown follies and tropical jollies. 
"So... how was your break?" I'll bet that you are guilty of uttering this little crowd-pleaser at least 67 times already. And I'll also wager that you've heard a billion stories about the cute, tan Texas frat boys in Padre or lamentations on annoying little brothers in East Bumble, Michigan. Fortunately, this category only sur­faces three or four times a year; still, isn't there anything else you can think of to say? 
Number two: "Dammit, is it cheese-day AGAIN?!" and other dining hall whines. 
This category covers everything from how girls in herds put their keys down to save a table to the absurdity of not being allowed to take a bagel out of the guarded dining hall door. This topic will almost always lead to the sub-category of I-can't-believe-I-pay-$25,000-a-year-for-this­kind-of-treatment. So the dining hall sucks. Deal. 
Number three: There is absolutely nothing to do in this frigid town. 
South Bend bashing is a favorite pastime of almost all Darners. This conversation is usually started with inquiries about weekend plans, and usually ends with everyone deciding to go to Bridget's for happy hour. There is nothing to do here. This shocking revelation has been discov­ered so many times that it rocketed from hypothesis to law in record time. Granted, talk­ing about South Bend's shortcomings is some­thing to do, but let's try to be a bit more cre­ative, shall we? 
Number Four: "I can't believe we actually had a DATE WEEK!!" 
Ah, it always comes back to gender relations, doesn't it? Notre Dame students don't date for fear of commitment: namely, a 90-year mar­riage producing 21 screaming children. We think a date is going to a freshman black-light party and hooking up. We fret and discuss, but nothing ever seems to change. If you talked about gender relations less, and actually dated more, maybe something would change. 
Let me be the first to admit that 1am guilty of the above-named conversational crimes. But in the depths of our impressive intellects and expansive vocabularies, can we fmd nothing to say to one another except, "Which do you like better, North or South?" I am afraid we are about to create a new handicap to add to the deluge of politically-correct ailments: Notre Dame is conversationally challenged. By the way, my break was great. Thanks for asking. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
• Tmuw's STAFF  
News  Graphics  
Bridget O'Connor  Jon King  
Heather MacKenzie  Production  
Sports  Bridget O'Connor  
Brian Reinthaler  Chris Uharr  
Viewpoint  Lab Tech ·  
Eddie Llull  Katie Kroener  
Accent  
Melanie Waters  

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday excepr during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduc.rion righrs are reserved. 
• WORlD AT A GLANCE 
Israel, Palestinians clash over Jewish neighborhood 

JERUSALEM 
Readying for a showdown, Palestinians pitched tents and Israeli snipers and troops in riot gear set up positions today on land in disputed east Jerusalem where Israel plans to build a Jewish neighborhood. 
Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu said his government would not reverse its decision to start construc­tion of th'e 6,500-apartment district this week. Israel radio said ground would be broken Tuesday morning. 
"If we do not stand up to threats over Jerusalem, we will not stand up to threats over anything," Netanyahu said. He added that Israel was prepared to deal with possible Palestinian violence. "We are preparing for all possibilities," he said. 
A senior Palestinian official said violence was immi­nent, and Palestinian hospitals discharged some 
Gore takes trial run as president 
WASHINGTON 
Wrapping up his St. Patrick's Day speech, Irish Prime Minister John Bruton grabbed a bowl of shamrocks, looked AI Gore in the eyes and declared, "On that note, Mr. President. ... " Bruton quickly corrected himself and called Gore "Mr. VICE president." But it was that kind of day for Gore, the earnest No. 2 filling in for his hob­

bled boss on Monday. Call it a trial run of sorts. Three days after knee surgery, President Clinton was conduct­ing high-level private meetings at the White House. Still, the lame limb limited Clinton's activity. So the vice presi­dent, who hopes to succeed Clinton in 2001, inherited a presidential public schedule that included ticklish politi­cal and diplomatic issues. It started early, with the announcement of a presidential commission to whip up support for campaign fi,nance reform. Gore announced that Clinton had appointed former Vice President Walter Mondale and former Sen. Nancy Kassebaum Baker, R­Kansas, to head the panel. The subject is a delicate one at the White House, given mounting questions about the role Clinton and Gore played in 1996 fund raising. 
Survey: Air bag safety misunderstood 
BOSTON 

Most Americans mistakenly believe that air bags, which have killed at least 38 children, help more young­sters than they hurt, according to a survey released today. Nearly 60 percent of adults polled believe that passenger-side air bags arc saving more children's lives than not, according to the Center for Risk Analysis at the Harvard School of Public Health. Air bags, which deploy at up to 200 mph, are credited with saving more than 1,600 adults. But there are no documented eases of a child being saved by an air bag, said center director John Graham, whose research two decades ago helped get air bags installed in cars. Graham said he still thinks passenger-side air bags are effective -provided children aren't sitting in the front seat. "We either have to get children in the back seat or redesign the passen­ger-side air bags," Graham said today. The auto indus­try has been cooperating with government efforts to educate drivers to have all small children ride buckled in the back scat. Although survey participants recog­nized that air bags can save lives, they were unclear about the range of injuries that air bags can cause. "The public has a perhaps excessively optimistic and favorable view of what air bags are doing for them," 
• 
Graham said. 
SOUTH Bam WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forcast 


patients to make room for casualties from any riots. In the West Bank, dozens of Palestinians stoned Israeli troops to protest the construction of Jewish settlements. 
In a good-will gesture, Israel agreed today to grant landing rights to Yasser Arafat's aircraft in the Gaza Strip. But the agreement applies only to the Palestinian leader and his entourage. 
The Israelis and Palestinians both missed today's deadline to begin talks on a permanent peace accord that would define borders and address the future of Jerusafem, Jewish settlements and Palestinian refugees. 
However, prodded by the United States and Jordan, Israel and the 
Palestinians sought to avert violence by trying to 
arrange a meeting this week between Nctanyahu and 
Arafat. 
Dublin celebrates St. Patrick's Day 

DUBLIN, Ireland 
Performance art replaced pageantry Monday during St. Patrick's Day celebrations in Dublin, where marching bands shared parade routes with troupes of actors posing as sea gods and farm animals. The theme was Irish leg­end, and actors dressed in bovine costumes celebrated the day by running cows and bulls through the streets of the Irish capital. According to legend, bulls represent potency and wealth, and cows symbolize devotion and docility. Other actors rode atop a f1oat simulating an ocean wave, while their colleagues posed as ancient Celtic sea gods. The adventures of Ireland's pirate sea queen, Granuaile, were recreated on a 30-foot galley, where the queen posed surrounded by 50 clansmen. The battle of Clontarf in 1014, when Viking invaders routed the Irish, also was recreated -this time, on bicycles. Other performances featured sea creatures, dragons and clowns. Not all tradi­tions were discarded: St. Patrick made his annual appear­ance, followed by marching bands from throughout Ireland and the United States bringing up the rear. Green streamers cascaded from city buildings, and revelers enjoyed a premature taste of spring sunshine. Many wore green hats or buttons proclaiming "Irish -for a day" and shamrocks painted on their cheeks. 
Protest looms over New York parade 
NEW YORK 
Pipes and drums fell silent for one somber minute Monday as St. Patrick's Day marchers honored the memo­ry of 1.5 million Irish who died in the Great Potato Famine some 150 years ago. Echoes of protest also hung over the nation's largest St. Patrick's Day parade for the seventh year in a row as three do.zen demonstrators from the Irish Lesbian and Gay Organization got themselves arrested. They were protesting their exclusion from the march. The 236th annual celebration for Ireland's patron saint was otherwise a spectacle of' bands, kilted bagpipers, military marching units and joyous spectators. Organizers nstimat­ed that 150,000 people marched and a million or more watched. Earlier, at a Mass in St. Patrick's Cathedral, Cardinal John O'Connor said that to ignore "Black '47," the middle and most severe year of the famine, "is to bn condemned to relive it in one way or another." O'Connor also praised former parade chairman Frank Bicrne, who died late last year. Bierne led the successful court light to bar the gay group on the grounds that the parade is a pri­vate religious observance and that homosexuality conf1icts with teachings of the Homan Catholic Church. Before Monday's parade, supporters of the Irish Lesbian and Gay Organization sat in the middle of Fifth Avenue and blocked traffic for 90 minutes until police arrested them. 
• NATIONAL WEATHER 
The AccuWeather<~>torecast for noon, Tuesday, March 18. 


COLD WARM STATIONARY 

C> 1997 'AccuWealher, Inc. 
Pressure 
H L 6J ESl lTIJ 


HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY Via Associated Press 
Anchorage  34  19  Evansville  49  35  New Orleans 61  53  
Atlanta  58  53  Green Bay  36  18  Pittsburgh  38  32  
Baton Rouge  61  51  Jacksonville  77  57  St. Louis  48  31  
Brownsville  69  56  Las Vegas  86  53  San Jose  76  46  
Dallas  70  42  Madison  38  17  Tampa  78  62  

--------~--~·~ ---------·--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 
Tuesday, March 18, 1997 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS page 3 

ND prepares to celebrate 25 years of co-education 

By DEREK BETCHER 
Associate News Editor 
This year marks the 25th anniversary of coeducation at Notre Dame. The student gov­ernment Gender Relations Department has designated the week of March 17-22 to com­memorate the occasion. 
Mass at the Basilica, a speech by president emeritus Father Theodore Hesburgh, and a panel discussion are among the events planned for the week. 
"We have a tradition of talk­ing about tradition, but this is a chance for Notre Dame stu­dents to meet the people semi­nally involved in making Notre Dame a co-educational univer­sity," gender relations chair-. man Patrick Belton said. "We definitely want to involve the whole student body in the cele­bration." 
Two main goals underlie the week's activities. The first is simply to commemorate the 


" ... make the most gorgeous sound you're likely to hear mt)'Where... " ·STEREOPHILE 
Friday, March 21 
8:00PM 
O'Laughlin Auditorium 

Tickets: $6/SMC-ND faculty and staff; $5/Students on sale at the Saint Mary's College Box Office, O'Laughlin Auditorium, 9 am -5pm Mon. -Fri. Credit card orders at 284-4626. 
TREATSEATS discount coupons available at area Target stores. 
25th anniversary of co-educa­tion at Notre Dame. 
"It's pretty amazing to think that women have only been here 25 years. It'll be special to hear people speak from when it was 95 percent male here, less than a generation ago," said publicity chairperson Stacy O'Brien. 
The second goal is to foster discussion on positive and neg­ative trends that have followed the switch to co-education. 
Wednesday night's panel dis­
cussion should provide impe­
tus for that evaluation. With a 
wide variety of speakers, 
Belton hopes no perspective 
will be left unexamined. 
Mary Bliley, the first woman 
to graduate from Notre Dame, 
plans on bringing an opti­
mistic attitude to events later 
in the week. Often touted as 
Notre Dame's 'First Lady,' 
Bliley is scheduled to intro­
duce Hesburgh's speech 
which is scheduled for 4 p.m. 
on the steps of the Main 


Building. 
"I think everybody will come away from the week with a better feeling about the University," she told The Observer. The 1972 graduate also commented on contempo­rary campus gender issues facing Notre Dame women. 
"There's no pain-free ride. Women will always have to prove themselves every day. There's still a natural good ol' boys attitude I've encoun­tered. You have to believe in yourself and work hard, then go say a prayer at the Grotto," she shared. 
Ann Pettifer, the first woman admitted to Notre Dame, will headline Wednesday's panel. She, for one, is looking forward to the discussion and anticipates the opportunity to examine cur­rent gender issues affecting the campus. 
"I've been a little disap­pointed recently to see how 
Mary Bliley was the first woman to receive an undergraduate degree from Notre Dame. She received her BBA following the decision to cancel a proposed merger between Saint Mary's and Notre Dame. 
women aren't part of the top administration team here," she told The Observer. "I feel very conflicted. The fact that we've never had a woman student body president has also been a concern of mine." In addition to what she saw 
as a lack of role models for 
campus women, Pettifer cited 
other impediments along the 
transition from "conformist 
Catholic culture." 
"The obstacle women face 
today is that they are still 
dealing with a very sexist 
church," Pettifer asserted. 
"Talking with these people gives me an incredible sense of continuity. I hope other people can share that experi­ence this week," Belton said. 

If you need to do some catching up or want to get a jump on fall, summer classes at Holy Cross College may be just the ticket. Choose one or both sessions, each offering a wide variety of quality general education courses. And pay our summer tuition rate of just $160 per credit hour. 
Take advantage of exceptionally small classes, a dedicated and caring faculty, and our convenient location just to the west of the University of Notre Dame campus. Credit earned is transferable. 
You'll enjoy summer activities even· more, knowing that you're also getting ahead in your studies.Write or call Holy Cross College today. Applications for Summer Sessions I and II, as well as for the 1997 Fall Semester, are now being accepted. 
Special to The Observer 
25th Aniversary of Co­educationCelebration 
Wednesday, March 19 
5:15p.m. Commemorative Mass at the Sacred Heart Basilica. 
8 p.m. Panel Discussion at the LaFortune Ballroom. 
Friday, March 21 
3 -6 p.m. Band at Stonehenge. 
Saturday, March 22 
4 p.m. Father Hesburgh Speaks on the Steps of the Main Building. 
8 p.m. Seventies Mixer at LaFortune Ballroom 
"" "HOLY CROSS 
~COLLEGE 
Office of Admissions 
*
P.O. Box 308 • Notre Dame, IN 46556

Session /-May 19 to June 26 
(219) 239-8400, ext. 22 • Fax (219) 233-7427

Session If -June 30 to August 7 
e-mail: hccadmis@gnn.com 
page 4 

The Observer • NEWS Tuesday, March 18, 1997 
CLC 
·continued from page 1 
be a permanent part of the 
constitution as a standing 
committee," said Kelly. 
Turnover was a key issue in 
the structure of the Student 
Union. 
According to Kelly, the cur­rent system has no continuity and the same issues are dis­cussed every year. With the new system, "each organiza­tion must establish a formal transition process to periodic major overhauls." 
The evolution of the existing student government has resulted in a "hodge-podge" as Kelly put it, of different branches of government with­out clearly defined objectives or mission statements. 
"For years it has been in the interest of the Office of Student Affairs to have some sort of flow chart for the stu­dent government and we have be. mystified in that respect," said vice president of Student Affairs, Bill Kirk. 
Fungus leaves wheat crop unharmed 
By JOHN McCLAIN Associated Press Writer 
WASHINGTON 
The Agriculture Department lifted its threat of quarantines against Southeastern wheat crops on Monday, saying it was unable to find any evidence a fungus had contaminated the grain. "We've extensively studied the situation in the Southeast and have concluded that Kan1al bunt is not present there," said Terry Medley, administrator of the depart­merit's Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service. The department said it failed to find any bunted wheat ker­nels in samples, although con­taminated rye grass kernels were common. Research has shown, however, that spores from rye grass do not infect wheat. 


Attention All Clubs! Sign up for allocation meet­ings outside the CCC office, Room 206 LaFortune. . Meetings run from March 17 through March 27. Fmlure to meet with us will make your club ineligible to receive funding. Questions, call the CCC at 1-4078. 
The Native American Student Organization 
will be holding a Pow Wow on April6. Any help wo~ld be appreciated. Volunteers are needed. Come and enJoy our celebration. Volunteers should call Sara at 4-1319. 
This space is for you! Stop by the Club Council to take advantage of your free advertising space in this column. 
Stop by our 2nd floor LaFortune office to see what the Club Council has to offer you and our or anization! 


Clot blocker helps heart patients 
By DANIEL HANEY 
Associated Press Writer 

ANAHEIM, Calif. 
A powerful new clot-prevent­ing medicine appears to cut the risk of heart attack and death almost in half in people hospi­talized with severe chest pain, a medical emergency that afflicts more than 1 million Americans annually. 
The drug is one of a new class of medicines that are like­ly to revolutionize the treat­ment of unstable angina, an ominous attack of chest pain that is the leading reason for admitting people to coronary care units. 
The medicine is a sort of super aspirin that works by stopping the formation of blood dots. 
These clots can trigger heart attacks by choking off the sup­ply of blood to the heart mus­cle. 
Currently, aspirin and a blood thinner called heparin are the mainstays of treatment for unstable angina. The new med­icine proved to be powerfully ell'ective when used in addition to these. 
Doctors say the new therapy may turn out to be even more important than clot-dissolving drugs, an entirely different group of medicines that have transformed the treatment of heart attacks over the past decade. 
"These arc landmark studies that represent a scientific breakthrough," said Dr. Harvey 

White of Green Lane Hospital in 
Auckland, New Zealand. 

White said the drug will save the lives of 13 of every 1,000 unstable angina patients treat­ed. By comparison, TPA, the leading clot-dissolver. saves 10 of every 1,000 heart attack patients treated. 
White directed one of two large studies on the drug, called Aggrastat, that were released Monday at a meeting of the American College of Cardiology. 
Dr. Hiek Sax, estimated that if all the 1.2 million unstable angina patients hospitalized in the United States each year received Aggrastat, it would prevent between 5,000 and 10,000 deaths and 30,000 to 40,000 heart attacks. 
Weko~ne Bacl{ Hospitality Progra1n Me~nbers -·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·­This is a reminder ofthe meetings scheduled for this week. When: Wed., March 19 & Thurs., March 20 Where: 204 O'Shaugnessy Hall Time: 7:oop.m. These meetings will be brief. Please remember to bring your personal calendar. Remember, you only need to attend one ofthe two meetings. If you have questions or concerns, contact: Jennifer Carrier Colleen Walton Admissions Office Student Coordinator 1-7505 4-4986  
Celebrating 25 Years ef ceeducatienl . Schedule ofevents: Wednesday, March 1'1-5:15 p.m. Mass in the Basilica with Father Scully and Father Oli Williams. Won1en from the class­es of 1973-77 will serve as Eucharistic ministers and lectors, with a reflection by Anne Pettifer '76. 8 p.m. panel discussion and reception-"Coeducation at Notre Dame: Good and Bad Trends" Featuring Coach Chris Petrucelli, Anne Pettifer '76, Chris Trutan '73, Dean Russell friday, March 21-Chicago area jazz band featured at Fieldhouse Mall from 4-7 p.m. (sponsored by SUB) Saturday, March 22-4 p.m.-Join Father Hesburgh as he addresses the student body from the steps ofthe Administration Building. Rain site is Lafortune Ballroom. Also featured-Mary Bliley, '72, ND's first female baccalaureate graduate. Reception to follow. 8 p.m. ­George and the Freeks will perform at the 70's mixer A in the LaFortune Ballroon1. ~ Questiensi» Centact Patrick at 1-7668  





boasted they would take city families out of the city. returns, most observers agree after city, and rumors spread There is great concern in the his dictatorship is nearing an that the only president a gen­capital that if Mobutu dies or end. eration of Zairians has known the army attempts a coup, "It is threatened, the regime was seriously ill. riots would break out among is very threatened," said 
The autocratic, charismatic soldiers and civilians. Bemba Saolona, president of Mobutu Sese Seko, who has Riots in 1991 and 1993 the Group of Allies of Marshal ruled Zaire for nearly 32 killed hundreds of people and Mobutu and a member of the years, remained hospitalized destroyed many businesses. transitional parliament. 
Monday in Monaco. He had The rebels, who accuse In its first official response surgery for prostate cancer in Mobutu of robbing his country to the fall last weekend of August. to enrich himself, have swept Kisangani, the northeast 
The government announced across eastern Zaire since regional capital and Zaire's Mobutu was "functioning nor­September. They say they third-largest city, the govern­mally," but The Associated won't stop until they reach the ment said Zairian troops had Press has learned that the capital -or the president been attacked by Ugandan president was in serious con­agrees to negotiate. But forces. Zaire has repeatedly dition and had undergone Mobutu has rejected rebel accused Uganda and Rwanda surgery after being admitted leader Laurent Kabila's of supporting the rebels, a Friday. A source in Monaco demand for face-to-face talks. charge those countries deny. provided the information to l-Ie now may be too ill to talk, The rebels are now threat­The Associated Press on con­or to prevent a military coup. ening to seize the country's clition of anonymity. Top generals met in secret second-largest city, on the 
The streets of Kinshasa were Monday, as they did Saturday Zambian border. rife with rumors that the 66-and Sunday. "All the towns of the repub­year-old Mobutu was dead and Prime Minister Leon Kengo lic are on our agenda ... but tho military was plotting to wa Dondo and his Cabinet held Lubumbashi is our next tar­take over the government. an emergency meeting and get," rebel spokesman 
Government spokesman met with foreign diplomats Raphael Ghenda said in the Jean-Claude Biebie Ekalabo Monday. eastern town of Goma. called on Kinshasans to A source close to the presi­Rebel forces seized remain calm and disregard dency told The Associated Kisangani with little resis­"fantastical rumors." Press that the army would try tance. Soldiers looted the city 
lie said Mobutu would to stop Kengo from leaving the of 300,000 people and fled return home this week. country Tuesday. The prime with panicked residents, aid Mobutu's son, Nganza, also minister was planning to workers said. 
Foreign relief workers fled 
Kisangani ahead of the rebels, 
By HEATHER COCKS 
News Editor 
A proposal concerning alloca­tion of D6 parking stickers has been finalized and is ready for submission to the Office of Student Affairs, according to Ad Hoc Parking committee member Tom Matzzie. 
Students with special needs and all women living on South Quad will be issued D6 stickers if the recommendations are approved; for male students, seniority will be a decisive fac­tor. 
"Junior men would enter a lottery to obtain their permits," said Matzzie. He added that all Carroll Hall residents will auto­matically be granted D6 stick­ers. 
"Right now, we're looking at most sophomores and freshman having to park in D2," speculat­ed Phil Johnson, assistant direc­upperclassmen shouldn't have to sacrifice their spot to a sec­ond-semester freshman." 
Johnson quickly added that the situation will not infringe on each student's right to have a car at Notre Dame, although they might not get the parking sticker of their choice. 
"We will write to the affected students," promised Johnson, "explaining our decisions and how we arrived at them." 
Matzzie asserted that student wishes and recommendations were integral to the process of completing the document. 
"The committee spoke to cam­pus leaders, such as Megan Murray and [HPC co-president] Deborah Hellmuth, and allocat­ed spaces based on those thoughts," Matzzie said. 
"We refused to begin the process without student input," Johnson concurred. "Students developed the recommenda­

tor of Notre Dame Security, tions and we sought their
leaving 100,000 Hwandan 
adding that he anticipates next ideas."
You've come a long Hutu refugees at Ubundu, 60 
year's vehicle registrations to The current stickers will not
miles to the south. 
mirror the high numbers be re-distributed; rather, the
way Julie (SMC '98) Rwandan 1-Iutus fled to Zaire 
reached in 1996-97. new policies, will be implement­
after the 1994 massacre of 
"It's an inconvenience," ed upon commencement of the 

500,000 minority Tutsis, a 
Johnson allowed, "but the fall 1997 semester. 
Happy 21st 
Birthday 
on St. Patrick's 
Day! 

Love, Mom, Dad, and J.J. 


Attention All CSC Service Seminar Participants: 
CENTER FOR 
SOCIAL Enjoy your Urban Plunge? Appalachia Seminar?
CONCERNS 
Washington? 

Interested in Service Learning? Leadership? 
Apply for: 
EXPERIENTIAL LEARNING COUNCIL COORDINATOR 

This position is a creative leadership opportunity made available through the Center for Social Concerns. If you are interested in service-learning, enjoy creative work and leadership, and ll'ould like a position working to coordinate various seminar efforts facilitated by the Experiential Learning Council, PLEASE .-\PPLY:: 
Applications availabl¢ in the CSC Applications due by Thursday March 20 
Questions? Call Lauren Stein 271-1699 Dr. Jay Brandenberger 631-5293 
Give a hoot, don't pollute... 
Please recycle The Observer 

BE A PART OF PLANNING YOUR JPW!!! APPLY FOR A POSITION ON THE 
1998 JPW EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE!!! 

DON'f MfSS OU1l!!!!!!!!! 
APPLICATIONS AVAILABLE AT THE LAFORTUNE INFO DESK APPLICATIONS ARE DUE IN 315 LAFORTUNE BY SPM MARCH 21 

page 6 The Observer • FINANCIAL NEWS Tuesday, March 18, 1997 
Dollar mixed on EMU worries Clinton proposes more 
By RICK GLADSTONE remains beset by economic and clearly it looks like the Associated Press Writer sluggishness and high unem­Tories are going out the door." 
responsive IRS system
ployment, making it difficult to Traders said the demand for 

NEW YORK satisfy the strict criteria for the marks intensified as word By ROB WELLS outlining the GOP's upcoming
The dollar fell against the European Monetary Union. spread of an interview with Associated Press Writer plans in Congress. mark and ended mixed in other "The theme since trading Waigel published Monday in Gingrich, citing the IRS' trou­currency dealings Monday after began was a resurging mark, Germany's Bild Zeitung news­Wi\SIIINGTON bled $3.3 billion computer a number of senior German offi­and that was due to the EMU paper, which quoted him as The Clinton administration, modernization program, said cials hinted 
,-----~----, delay jitters," said Bob Near, saying strict adherence to the seeking tighter control over the Clinton administration that Europe's vice president of foreign­EMU criteria is more important the troubled IHS, unveiled a should pursue major tax 
plans for exchange trading at the Bank of than a punctual start-up of the plan Monday to strengthen reform and shouldn't try to monetary New York. "With the mark tak­euro. oversight and management of design a computer system to union might ing off the way it did, that really The impact of Waigel's inter­
the tax col-------------interpret an 
be delayed. dragged down everything else." view was reinforced by Edgar I e c t i 0 n 'Wehave as an enormously
T h e In New York, the dollar set­Meister and Pranz-Christoph agency. complex and remarks by tled at 1.6894 marks, down Zeitler, who arc both members The move Objective .ending teehnir:al tax Finance from 1.6935 marks Friday. The of the Bundesbank's policymak­comes as a 
the Internal Revenue code.
M i n i s t e r Waigel dollar settled at 123.66 yen, up ing council. In separate appear­While urg­
congressional Service as we know it.'
Theo Waigel from 123.38 yen, due partly to ances in Europe, they said it panel pre-ing a reduc­and three members of the yen's weakness against the was premature to say whether pares its own tion in capitalGermany's Bundesbank mark. Germany would qualify for EMU recommenda­
Newt Gingrich gains and

aroused a broad rally in marks The demand for marks had participation. tions to over­
estate taxes, by compounding fears in the the worst effect on the British In addition another senior haul the Gingrich said foreign-exchange market that pound, which tumbled against Bundesbank council member, Internal H.evenue Service, he wants to improve tho IHS the January 1999 debut of the most currencies and hit the low­1-Ians-Juergen Koebnick, said in which has eome under service so taxpayers will get 
euro will be postponed. That est level against the dollar since an interview with German unprecedented criticism for a accurate answers to tax ques­would leave the mark as the mid-October. In late New York financial news agency VWD that botched computer upgrade tions and eliminate filing for as predominant eurreney in trading, the pound cost adherence to the criteria is and poor service. many as 40 million taxpayers
Europe. $1.5888, down from $1.6010. more important than the "The JHS needs to be morn with simple tax returns. 
A weekend report in The pound's weakness result­timetable. responsive to taxpaym·s, to use H.cp. Jim Kolbe, H-i\riz., Germany's Der Spiegel maga­ed partly from Prime Minister Earlier in Asian dealings, the technology more effectively chairman of a llnuse zine also intensified doubts John Major's declaration of a dollar edged higher against the and to be more efricient," Appropriations subcommittee about the euro's debut, assert­May 1 national election, which yen despite a Japanese govern­Deputy Treasury Secretary that oversees the IRS budget,ing that Waigel's own internal he is widely expected to lose ment report showing Japan's Lawrence Summers said in a said the Clinton administration calculations suggested and end nearly two decades of trade surplus with the United speech to the Tax Executives plan "is not what l would eall Germany's government deficit Conservative Party government. States expanded in Pebruary for Institute. a bold reeonfiguration of the would total 4.15 percent of Although Major had been the fifth straight month, due Later, to reporters, Summers IRS." gross domestic product this required to call an election, largely to the yen's weakness. observed, "Money has been Kolbe wanted greater year. traders who had built up posi­U.S. manufacturers have wasted that should not have specifies for improving agency
Such a ratio would be far tions in pounds used the increasingly complained that been wasted and customer ser­operations.higher than the currency plan's announcement as an excuse to the dollar's strength is hurting vice should have been better." The IHS is under lire after it requirement that the deficit of sell the currency. their competitiveness. Leading House Hepublicans admitted to essentially misus­any participating country total 3 "We knew it was going to Other late dollar rates in New said the proposals, while well ing or wasting $400 million out percent or less of GOP. happen because they had to do York compared with late intentioned, aren't new and of $3.3 billion it spent on com­
Although Germany's finance it some time, but it adds a little Friday: 1.4585 Swiss francs, up 
don't go far enough. puter modernization since ministry denied the Der Spiegel more uncertainty to the pound," from 1.4570; 5.6995 French "We have as an objective 1987, while failing to replace report, the market still focused said Roger Chapin, foreign­francs, down from 5. 7130; ending the Internal Revenue aging paper tax return pro­on the new speculation that the exchange manager at Bank One 1,693.00 Italian lire, up from Service as we know it," House cessing or integrating nine timetable for the single curren­in Columbus, Ohio. "We know 1,688.50; 1.3708 Canadian dol­Speaker Newt Gingrich, H-Ga., databases used to research cy is unrealistic because Europe we've got an election coming lars, up from 1.3628. said in a House floor speech taxpayer complaints. 
• 
HALLEI~UJAH NIGHT IV Friday, April 18, 1997 
7:00 p.m. Stepan Center 
Accepting submissions for 
Poetry Readings 
l...lJ.'').l·-:·-LlL-........ . '~ 1 l :l'i'l1tt~:l .... J. ('11n11Jrl) '·· he.
" .l \. , l J ~... .. ' 
3-5 minutes in length. Four participants will be chosen to read their poetry at this event. 
We give students a break! 
Submit by March 21, 1997 Hallelujah Night Committee Campus Ministry 112 Badin Hall 

All Salon Services and Haircare Products 
Adult Haircut reg. $9.95
(l\MPU5 
MasterCuts ReGIS NE:~S A=IUL MIT0-1ELL. 
~EBAHIAN

MINISTRY 
MasterCuts

University Park Mall farrily hai"cutters 
277-3770 Great Haircuts. Great Prices. Guaranteed. 
~-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-:~-------~~ 


.---~~----------~~~--~~--~------~ ~------­
Tuesday, March 18, 1997 The Observer • FINANCIAL NEWS page 7 


WE WANT YOU! 
The 1998 Yearbook is now taking applications for the following paid postttons: 

• 
Senior Editor 

• 
Sports Editor 

•
Year in Review Editor 

• 
Photography Editor 

•
Academics Editor 

• 
Campus Life Editor 

• 
Clubs Editor 


Market struggles with Fed's inflation fears 
By BRUCE MEYERSON 
Associated Press Writer 
NEW YORK 

A late rebound helped blue­chip shares erase steep losses, but technology and smaller­company shares slid Monday in nervous trading as long-term interest rates crept toward 7 percent in the bond market. 
The Dow Jones industrial average recovered from an 81­point deficit to finish with a gain of 20.02 at 6,955.48. Broader measures also rebounded from the clay's lows, but only those dominated by blue-chip and other large companies pulled into positive territory. 
With no major economic reports to reinforce the enthusi­asm over Friday's tame reading on wholesale prices, investors found few distractions from worries the Federal Reserve is 
~OBSERVER 
llil@lilijl~llll;'ll;'ll\i1p;iAI•4:11@@H;o!IU•Jiilj$1fidli.iiii.iiiMtiW 
is now accepting applications for 
Cartoonist 
Applicants should submit five samples of their proposed comic strip, along with a brief statement describing what the strip will be about. 
Applications and questions should be directed to Brad Prendergast, 314 LaFortune, 631-4542. 
Deadline is Thursday, March 20 
poised to raise interest rates as protection against inflation. 
"There was nothing to steer (the market). With all the clark­ness and wind rattling the bush­es, maybe there's monster behind it. You just don't know," said Robert Streed, senior investment adviser at Northern Trust in Chicago. Among the factors influencing the market this week include Friday's expi­ration of options contracts and end-of-quarter window dressing by portfolio managers, he noted. 
The early uncertainty pres­sured bond prices, boosting the yield on the 30-year Treasury bond -a key determinant of corporate and consumer bor­rowing costs -as high as 6.99 percent from late Friday's 6.94 percent. The long-bond yield, which hasn't been above 7 per­cent since September, settled at about 6.95 percent. 
By HILLARY CHURA 
Associated Press Writer 

Soybeans futures prices dropped on the Chicago Board of Trade on speculation that domestic prices have gotten so high that it is cheaper to import crops from South America. 
Brazilian prices are expected to remain com­petitive, especially with Brazil's announcement late Friday that it would not impose a 3-percent tax on exports. A tariff would have made Brazilian beans about as expensive as U.S. crops. 
"There is no need for such a tax now, at a time when Brazil is doing everything it can to stimu­late exports," Agriculture Ministry spokesman Beneclito Rosa said. 
Brazilian crushers wanted a tax to help dis­courage exports. They argued that a big boost in exports is depleting raw material to make soymeal and soyoil. 
The threat of a Brazilian tax sent soybeans for May delivery rocketing to 8 1/2-year highs on Friday. The $8.49 1/2 close made U.S. soybeans about 15 cents a bushel more expensive than Brazilian crops. Brazil is the second top soybean producer after the United States. 
"When beans get back up into $8.50, it works to bring beans in from South America," said Marty Colgan, a trader at LFG, a Chicago com­modity brokerage. 
Also late Friday, Cargill, one of the largest soy­bean crushers in the United States, said it would temporarily close three big plants -thereby curbing buying -because prices had gotten so high. 
Soybeans for May delivery fell 24 1/2 cents to $8.25 a bushel. 
Coffee futures prices posted the largest drop in 2 1/2 years Monday as traders speculated that huge shipments to the United States soon will alleviate shortages that sent had prices soaring to two-year highs. 
On other markets, soybeans futures prices retreated, while cocoa futures gained. 
Applications are available outside the Dome Yearbook Office, 3rd Floor of LaFortune and should be returned to the Student Activities office (315 LaFortune) by Friday, March 21. Any questions, please call the Dome office at 631-7524. 
-~----------~-----~~--~--~------~--. 
page 8 

The Observer· NATIONAL NEWS Tuesday, March 18, 1997 
Talks aim to reassure Russians 
By BARRY SCHWEID 

Associated Press Writer 
WASHINGTON 

In strained pre-summit talks, President Clinton tried Monday to soften Russia's resistance to NATO expansion. 
Russian President Boris Yeltsin called in Moscow for further U.S. concessions and said. "I don't want a 


return to the Yeltsin 
Cold War." 
The points Clinton took up with Foreign Minister Yevgeny Primakov included assurances that an expanded NATO would pose no threat to Moscow and promises of a greater voice for Russia in the economic confer­ence of the world's seven lead­ing industrialized democra­cies. 
While Hussia cannot stop the alliance from inviting former Soviet allies this summer to join, both Yeltsin and Primakov signaled they remained opposed in princi­ple. 
"We can't move any fur­ther," Yeltsin said in Moscow. 
And emerging from an hour­long session with Clinton, hob­bled by a knee injury, in a White House sitting room, Primakov said: "Russia will not change its position on NATO." 
The differences will carry over to Clinton's summit with Yeltsin in Helsinki, Finland, on Thursday and, White House press secretary Mike McCurry said, "There are likely to con­
tinue to be disagreements 
after the summit." 
Primakov planned to fly 
home Monday night and to 
report to Yeltsin, who told 
American, Russian and 
Finnish television networks in 
Moscow: 
"I don't want a return to the 
Cold War, and neither do our 
people, but to avoid that there 
must be equal conditions. I'm 
for a multi-polar world, not 
one in which the United States 
will command everyone else." 
Urging Clinton to make con­
cessions, Yeltsin said: "Our 
diplomats have made enough 
concessions to the United 
States. We can't move any fur­
ther. Now it's the U.S. turn to 
move in order to preserve our 
partnership." 
Despite the rhetoric, the two sides are working on a new relationship between Moscow and NATO, one that McCurry said would be made politically but not legally binding. 
If a charter can be complet­ed, that probably would be done at a gathering of Clinton and European leaders in Europe, probably in the Netherlands in late May. 
Primakov said Russia would not drop its insistence that the charter have "a binding char­acter," but that Russia under­stood NATO was a real force and would like to have a nor­mal relationship with the alliance. 
Primakov said it was "a great honor" to be received by Clinton during his convales­cence from knee surgery and while he was not disposed to receive foreign visitors. 
During their talks in the Yellow Room in the second-
floor residential quarters, 
Clinton and Primako sat in 
armchairs. The president's 
knee was in a brace, the result 
of a wrenching accident and 
surgery last Friday. He moved 
his leg back and forth gingerly 
a few times. 
Among the concessions on 
the agenda for Clinton's talk 
with Primakov were the char­
ter to give Russia more partic­
ipation in NATO proceedings, 
joint peacekeeping operations 
like the one in Bosnia and 
promises that NATO would not 
deploy Western troops in sub­
stantial numbers on the soil of 
new members for the foresee­
able future. 
Last week, Yeltsin said Clinton had told him on the telephone that "the U.S. is interested in compromise and so am I." 
NATO Secretary-General Javier Solana, the chief nego­tiator for the West, is working on a text and his made several trips to Moscow for Kremlin conference. 
Primakov, meanwhile, met with Secretary of State Madeleine Albright befon~ the foreign minister called at the White House. l-Ie met with Defense Secretary William Cohen on Sunday. 
State Department spokesman Nicholas Burns called the Albright-Primakov sessions "intensive, coopera­tive and, in some case, pro­ductive." 
He acknowledged "we arc working on some language" to formalize new Hussian tics to NATO, although the adminis­tration has flatly rejected Russia's demand for a legally binding doeument. 

1995.ttl1e F~.I has Department, the ,..,_..,.,_,__, .....-the Justice Department, 
intelligence committees House and the Senate 
"""''"''i;'h,.t the Chinese were try­ing buy influence in this country ...;'' Hatch said on CBS' "Face the Nation." 
Attorney General Janet Reno has said she was briefed bythe FBI in May 1996. Six members of Congress were briefed beginning that month. 

President Clinton has al:~w det1ied knowing of the ______ to --_Chinese plan until press ·-----CIA reports appeared earlier this 
"'"''""""'" " year. Two National Security Council staffers were briefed by the FBI in June 1996, but they have said they did not pass the information up to Clinton and his top aides. Reno has said they had mis­understood the instructions they received from the FBI. 
Hatch said, "They weren't told not to send this up; they just didn't send it up. And I think the reason they didn't is because (senior officials) already knew .... The adminis­tration knew that these 5 cable did not attempts were being made mentio.n any members of and that's what makes it 
Congress by name, nor did it mind-boggling." 
contl}in information regarding "I suspect that this is anoth­an.y plans to influence the er case of a senator hyperven­executive branch," it said. tilating on a Sunday talk The department issued the show," White House press statement to counter remarks secretary Mike McCurry said. 
HI THERE. OUR MUSIC DEPARTMENT MISSED YOU. 
WELCOME BACK. 
(JJ(;'/{11/(t;. C/./J!I? recovering the satellites 
Featuring: Angels 01 The Silences • Catapult 
SHERYL CROW COUNTING CROWS $13.99 CD 
$13.99 CD 
MAXWELL'S 
URBAN HANG 
SUITE 
mcluding: 
...TIL THE COPS 
COME KNOCKIN' 
ASCENSION (OOM'T EVER WONDER\ 
SUMTHIN' SUMTHIN' WHENEVER WHEREVER WHATEVER 
(:Ol.OIHI.\ 

MAXWELL $13.99 CD 
$13.99 CD 

SALE PRICES IN THIS AD END ON MARCH 31, 1997 


"On The Campus"
The Hammes 
hone: 631-6316 
Notre Dame Bookstore 
store hours: Monday -Saturday: 9 am -5 pm 


-~--------~---------~~-----------------------~~ ~-~~ -~­
Tuesday, March 18, 1997 The Observer • WASHINGTON NEWS page 9 
Report details reasons for Mexican support 
By GEORGE GEDDA "non-paper." 
Associated Press Writer The State Department sought to quash the document on WASHINGTON grounds of the "extreme" lan-
A White House document guage it contains and its "some­makes clear one reason why the what exaggerated" sentiments, administration resists labeling according to one official. Mexico a narcotics pariah state: He and other officials were "The political surprised when the document culture of found its way into the folder Mexico is earmarked for lawmakers. i m m a t u r e ; Officials cite these 1996 statis­any perceived tics in making the point about slight by the the breadth of the U.S.-Mexican 'giant to the relationship: Two-way trade of north' could $130 billion, 250 million border lead to an crossings and almost 687,000
Clinton

upsurge in U.S. nonimmigrant visas issued. nationalism." Also, at least a half-million 
Economics is another, adding Americans live in Mexico. to the administration's uneasi-Officials worry that a decerti­ness about the ongoing congres-fication-induced hostility would sional effort to overturn force Mexican President President Clinton's decision two Ernesto Zedillo to curb coopera­weeks ago to certify Mexico. • tion on narcotics and other 
Various proposals are under issues. It also would cast a pall 
consideration by lawmakers, over Clinton's planned visit to lyzed by the Manton team look at the rates of and a final decision is expected Mexico next month. chronic disability among more than 40,000 peo­this week. But officials insist that the ple age 65 and older. Chronic disability is defined Mexico's counter-narcotics competing interests did not 
WASHINGTON as either being in a nursing home or being performance is by law the only influence Clinton's decision to 
America's elderly are not only living longer but unable t~_perform at least one of the activities of criterion for deciding whether a renew Mexico's certification. more of them are staying healthy enough to daily living, such as bathing or dressing oneself, country is fully cooperating in "The statute is very clear in enjoy it. A study shows a 14.5 percent decline in or as being unable to perform at least one of the the drug war, but administra-terms of the scope provided for the rate of older people who are unable to care instrumental activities of daily living, such as tion officials and other analysts the decision, and on that basis it for themselves. washing clothes. say the drug issue should not be was made on counter-narcotics 
A national medical survey taken periodically Manton said that people are living. longer and considered in isolation. criteria," says Robert Gelbard, since 1982 shows that the percentage of people remaining active because medical science is It's one thing to decertify Iran the State Department's top anti­over age 65 who are disabled has dropped from learning more about treating the elderly. or Afghanistan, the officials say, drug officer. 
24.9 percent to 21.3 percent, a difference of "We can deal with the elderly and the oldest but it's quite another to do the Beyond that, says Sen. Ernest about 1.2 million people. old in new ways," said Manton. "There is better same to Mexico because the Hollings, D-S.C., Mexico's 
"There is total life expectancy and then there diagnosis and treatment of the specialized prob­stakes are so high. record in countering drug is active life expectancy," said Kenneth G. lems that you get in a very elderly population." The White House document smuggling is so bad, perhaps Manton of Duke University. "It looks like both Also, older people are now better educated in was included in a folder sent to "we're going to have to cause a are improving at the same time." the wa s of health and long life, said Manton. members of Congress in defense crisis down there." Sen. Dianne 
Manton is the lead author of a survey study to "They are more responsive and they are better of Clinton's decision to certify Feinstein, D-Calif., a leader in be published on Wednesday in the Proceedings of medical consumers," said Manton. "They are Mexico. To conceal its source, it the pro-decertification camp, the National Academy of Sciences. more likely to preserve life style factors that is not attributed to the White says, "Things cannot continue 
The National Long Term Care Surveys ana-improve health, such as physical activity." House but instead is labeled a as they are." 

Human Rights Week 
& Diversity Day Celebration 
Tuesday, March 18th 
Gender, Race, and Coalition Panel Discussion 
7:30pm Hesburgh Library Lounge -Refreshments Served 
Wednesday March 19th 
Human Rights: A Local Perspective Chris Nanni -La Casa de Amistad Lou Nanni -Center for the Homeless 
7:30pm Siegfried Lounge 
"A Faith Worth Dying For" Father Michael Baxter 
10:00 pm Keenan Chapel 
Thursday, March 20th 
Resolving Racial Tensions 
7:30pm Center For Social Concerns 
Friday, March 21st 
Sabor Latino 
10:00 pm Keenan Basement 
March 17 
to 

March 24, 1997 


Saturday, March 22nd 
Race & Religious Diversity "Fish Bowl" Discussion 
12:00 pm Lewis Basement 
Ethnic Lunch -(Indian, Chinese & Mexican Food) Mariachi ND 
12:30 pm Lewis Basement 
Sunday, March 23rd 
Diversity Day Mass Celebrants: Fr. Martin Nguyen, Fr. Don McNeil, Rev. Reginald Whitt Voices of Faith Choir 
4:30 pm LaFortune 
Monday, March 24th 
Schools of Americas Watch Fr. Roy Bourgeois 
8:00pm Hesburgh Auditorium 
Sponsored by: Keenan, Lewis, PE, & Siegfried 

page 10 The Observer • INTERNATIONAL NEWS Tuesday, March 18, 1997 

GRADUATION 
CATERING 


STuDENT WoRKERS NEEDED 
$$May 10-18 $$ Free Room/Board Special Graduation Pay Rate 
Room contract sign-ups begin on: Tuesday, March 18 ( 1 0:00AM-5:00PM) Last day to sign contract is April 3 
Catering Office 631-5449/8792 
Lower level-South Dining Hall 
• If you have never worked on campus, please bring a picture ID & either an original social security card, birth certificate or unexpired employment authorization document (please call Catering for further information) 
We are now taking appllcatilms for 
-furnished apartments -shuttle bus 
-central air -24 hour laundry
NEXT YEAR!! 

•Swimming pool/SPA •Tennis, volleyball, & basketball courts 
•FLEXIBLE LEASE PLANS 
Apartments Available for your selection 
For more information, call272-1441 
Summer leases Available 
r-----------------------,
Unlimited Tanning 
exp. 3/30/97 
1  1  
:  Until Easter  :  
: I 1  for $20  : 1 1  

L-----------------------~ 
University Commons 
by UP Mall 
272-7653 

• BRITAIN 
Major calls for national election 
By MAUREEN JOHNSON 
Associated Press Writer 
LONDON 

Prime Minister John Major has called national elections for May 1 that pundits, pollsters and, privately, even political allies say his party is sure to lose. 
With so many expecting a loss, and the end of 18 years of Conservative gov­
ernment, the larg­er question was: Will Britain's left­of-center Labor Party achieve the biggest landslide since it ousted Winston Churchill in 1945? 
The prime minister sounded optimistic when he announced the date Monday after inform­ing Queen Elizabeth II, saying: "I think we'll win this elec­tion." 
Few others did. Bookmakers offered odds of 4-1 against a Conservative victory. 
A new Gallup poll, published in Tuesday's Daily Telegraph, put Labor 28 points ahead of the Conservatives. The poll of 1,045 voters, conducted after the election date was announced, had a margin of error of 3 percentage points. 
The economy is doing well. But voters are bored and dis­gruntled with the Conservatives' long hold on power, while Labor has moved sharply to the center and no longer frightens the middle class. 
The government has suffered from rancorous divisions over European policy, a ban on beef exports because of mad cow disease, and public concerns about crime, education and health care. 
Opposition leader Tony Blair, 43, who will be prime minister if Labor wins. warned support­ers not to be complacent. "Britain can be better than this," Blair said during a visit to a south London school. 
Margaret Thatcher, who led the Conservatives to power against the last Labor govern­ment in 1979, declared in a statement outside her London residence, "I hope you'll stick with us." 
Even Lady Thatcher, whose right-wing polices wrought huge changes, did not deny a sneaking admiration for Blair. 
Asked about reports that she recently described him in pri­
vate as someone "who will not let Britain down," she replied: .: 'Mr. Blair is different from Prime Minister Blair. I am fighting for Prime Minister Major." 
Major, 54, who succeeded Thatcher in 1990, immediately hit the campaign trail. 
In Luton, north of London, where two Conservative legisla­tors look likely to be among the party's casualties, he stood on a soap box in the middle of a melee in the town center. The soap box was a prominent prop in Major's 1992 campaign, when the two parties were neck-and-neck in the polls. 
His voice nearly drowned by hundreds of demonstrators yelling "Tories out" and sup­porters chanting, "Five more years," Major shouted, "This country is not going to change allegiance!" 
But no party has ever come from so behind at the start of an election campaign to win. 
Churchill, the Conservative who led Britain through World War II, was 13 points behind at the start of the campaign when Labor won in 1945 and intro­duced Britain's welfare state. 
Blair got early backing from the Sun, Britain's biggest sell­ing newspaper, which has tra­ditionally supported the Tories. 
The Sun declared it support for Blair in Tuesday's editions, saying Britain needs "a leader with vision, purpose and courage." 
The six-week campaign, long by British standards, is likely to include the first broadcast debates between leaders of the major parties. 
Projecting from recent opin­ion polls, Labor could have an overall majority of more than 


100 seats in the 659­
member Commons 
meaning the 
Conservatives would 
lose about one-third 
of the 323 seats they 
now hold. 
Some believe it 
could be worse ­
conjuring memories of 1994 when Canada's Conservative Party imploded from a government with 155 seats to a fringe party with just two. 
"We need a change," Fatima Jama, 42, waiting outside the Crampton Primary School that Blair visited. "The Conservatives have had their chance. Let Labor take its turn and we'll see the difference between them." 

Part-Time 
••• now hiring ••• 
Not Sales Not Telemarketing Interviewers are needed to conduct public opinion research 
Job requires excellent PC keyboarding and verbal skills 
$6+ at start highly flexible shifts training provided 

Especially good opportunity for anyone pursuing degree program in: Marketing, Business, Sociology, Public Affairs or Communication 
CALL MARKET STRATEGIES INC-2 I 9-233-3453 
Campus View Apartments 
• MEXICO 

Six inmates killed in bloody prison riot 
By ROSY RAMALES 
Associated Press Writer 
OAXACA CITY. Mexico 
Rival inmate gangs attacked each other with guns, knives and clubs at a prison in southern Mexico on M~nday in a melee that left sixinmates dead and 55 oth­ers injured. 
Many of the prisoners, severely beaten and their clothes dripping blood, lay facedown for hours in the prison yard before they were taken to hospitals following the early morning spasm of violence. 
Later Monday, an unknown number of inmates remained barricaded in one cellblock at Santa Maria Ixcotel state prison, 220 miles south of Mexico City, and were negoti­ating with authorities to end the upheaval. said Huberto Santiago, a Oaxaca state gov­ernment spokesman. 
Armed police ringed the penitentiary, and dozens of inmates could be seen on a prison rooftop, some carrying homemade clubs and others trying.. to shout answers to questions by reporters. 
But Santiago insisted that authorities were gradually regaining control. 
"State officials managed to establish contact and obtain the release of the wounded," said Santiago, whose local government administers the prison, which is located on the outskirts of Oaxaca City. 
He did not elaborate on the negotiations. 
The two gangs of inmates that clashed apparently were vying f(Jr control of an elected prison council, authorities said. Among the injured, at least a dozen appeared to have been beaten uncon­scious, said llerberto Castillo, a public safety ollicial. 
Five prisoners who attempted to escape under cover of the riot have been recaptUI·ed, local reports said. 
Grape & McKinley 
near KMart 
256-9656 


Tuesday, March I8, I997 The Observer • INTERNATIONAL NEWS page II 
•SENEGAL 
ers  
da  rs  
did ages ago  
in fear, sor..:  
row  ahd  
chains.  
However.  
Hillary and  
Chelsea  
Clinton  
turned  
around Monday at ~u~'·'"'V'  
of No  Return,  un  .  
about traders with muskets ··  rusty 20­ 
who would shoot them if\My  down one  
refused  to  board wait1rigA  of the  .  .  15'million to  

slave ships or the sharks that .20 m!Ilion people taken into would devour them if they slavery through the island. jumped overboard to swim "Millions of African away. Americans claim their roots 
Nor were they threatened in West Africa, through Goree by a horrible journey aboard Island," she told students at a a cramped, disease-ridden girls school. Her chief of staff, ship or by slavery that would Maggie Williams, had visited force them apart, sending Goree Island before and them to sugar plantations and called it a "profound" experi­cotton fields in North or ence. South America. The first lady told students 
"I cannot even imagine at the Martin Luther King what that would be like,'' School for Girls that their Mrs. Clinton said. She stood school was named for an in the courtyard of a 221-American "who changed the year-old house where cap-course of America and wotld tured Africans were weighed, · history." chained, separated according Mrs. Clinton began her trip to their value and herded into a day later than planned. 
GEAR UP FOR MONOPOLY Notre Dame Irish Students 
Prizes include: •$1 ,000,000 •1997 Jaguar XKB Convertible • A Westin Resort Vacation •RCA Home Theatre 60" Projection TV •AND MUCH, MUCH MORE!! 
(~~si 
JUST GRAB YOUR GAME PIECES AT YOUR LOCAL PARTICIPATING McDONALD' S® BEGINNING ON MARCH 6,1997. 
I( FREE Deluxe Sandwich~f equal--FREE Breakfas~ Sandwichof equal-ll
~--------------------------~ 
II or lesser value with the Purchase or lesser value With the Purchase II II of any Deluxe Sandwich. of any Breakfast Sandwich. II 
II L' . . 0 L' . . . 0 f II
mut one coupon, per customer. per YISit. ne free tmtt one coupon. per customer. per VISit ne reeII item per coupon. Current prices and parlicipation based item per coupon. Current prices and panicipation based II on independent operator decision. Prices may vary. on independent operator decision. Prices may vary.
II II
Not valid on Extra Value Meals. Plus tax if applicable. Not valid on Extra Value Meals. Plus tax if applicable. II Please present coupon when ordering. Not valid with Plea.<e present coupon when ordering. Not valid with any other offer. any other offer. 
II 

II Valid dates: 3/6.4/3/1997 Valid dates: J/6 ..V)/1997 IIII Offer valid only at the following McDonald's: Offer valid only at the following McDonald's: 52665 U.S. 31 Nonh. South Bend. IN 46637 52665 U S J I Nonh. South Bend. IN 46637 
I1

II 1519 Ironwood Dr .. South Bend. IN 46635. M 1519 Ironwood Dr. South Bend. IN 46635 M II 416 N. Mich1gan St., South Bend. IN .u.601-416 N. Mich1gan St.. South Bend. IN 4660..1
11 ll QI9:_Mc~d~Corp. _____:_·_· _2_ C0:7~c~~s~~-----·__· _,j; 
Deluxe Line Sandwiches include: Fish Filet Deluxe®. Grilled Chtcken Deluxe:®. Arch Deluxe® and Crispy Chicken Deluxe® 
~--------------------------~ 
• JAPAN 

Nuclear W'aste provokes debate 
By SHIZUO KAMBAYASHI pilfered or attacked by terrorists. Several Associated Press Writer nations along potential routes banned the Pacific Teal from their waters. ROKKASHO, Japan The first shipment followed a fire at a 
A shipload of high-level nuclear waste nuclear reprocessing plant northeast of Tokyo, arrived in a northern Japanese port Monday, which exposed 37 workers to low-level radia­sparking more criticism of the country's energy tion. program just a week after a nuclear accident. The plant's operators have been accused of a 
The Pacific Teal, carrying 20 tons of waste slow and confused response that could have reprocessed in France, docked in a fishing vil­compounded the damage. lage 350 miles northeast of Tokyo early The newly arrived waste, stored in 40 con­Tuesday, officials said. tainers, left the French port of Cherbourg on 
It was the second time Japan has received Jan. 14 and traveled around the Cape of Good reprocessed high-level radioactive waste; the Hope and through the Indian Ocean and South first was in 1995. Japan has little capability to Pacific, said Yuji Tanagi, spokesman for the reprocess spent fuel, so it sends the waste to government-funded storage operator Japan Britain and France. Nuclear Fuel Ltd. 
The shipments, however, have been criticized After an inspection by prefectural and town at home and abroad as risky. officials, the casks will be unloaded and taken Environmentalists worry that an accident could to a facility outside Rokkasho, a fishing and lead to a ocean spill, or that the cargo could be farming town of 11,000 people, Tanagi said. 
• PERU 

Tupac rebels insist on freedom 
pended for an indefinite "peri­heart is sick." 
Peruvians 

od of reflection," an effort by Raul Figari, who lives near the mediators to find common the residence, said he wasdemand end to ground between the rebels and attending in "silent solidarity." government. "Negotiation is the only way The Tupac Amaru rebels to solve this but the govern­
hostage crisis 

insist on freedom for hundreds ment jeopardized the negotia­of jailed comrades, something tions by tunneling under theBy JOSEPH FRAZIER President Alberto Fujimori residence," he said. 
Associated Press Writer 

says is not negotiable. On March 6, the rebels dis­The cacophony began at continued talks after accusing
LIMA, Peru 

noon. Horns honked, fire the government of digging aPeruvians sounded off with sirens wailed and bells in tunnel. While evidence ishorns, sirens, whistles and 
many of the city's 300 Roman strong that it is true, Fujimorichurch bells Monday, demand­Catholic churches rang across has refused to confirm or denying an end to the hostage crisis the seaside capital. The out­the charge. 
that has trapped 72 men in the pouring came in response to Fujimori met Monday with

Japanese ambassador's resi­

an appeal by family members mediators, who have been
dence for three months. 

of the hostages held since Dec. talking to each side separatelyNegotiations have been sus­17. in an effort to breathe new life 
The noisiest turnout seemed into the talks. to be around the residence Fernando Rospigliosi, a itself, where TV footage columnist and frequent critic showed hostages in windows of Fujimori, said the apparent under a rebel banner reading discovery of a tunnel weak­"People of Peru remember, ened Fujimori by indicating an Fujimori does not govern for inability to find a peaceful the poor, fight for your rights." solution. 
Radio reports said the clam­"He must make some con­or was substantial in the inte­cessions," Rospigliosi said, rior of the country as well. suggesting that some prisoners 
"They should free the 500 whose sentences are nearly (Tupac Amaru) prisoners complete might be freed. because the Jives of the 72 Meanwhile, a special envoy hostages are worth more than of Japan's prime minister is their lives," said Zarela due to arrive Tuesday. Cornejo, who demonstrated Masahiko Komura is carry­near the residence. ing letters from Prime Minister 
On a fourth-floor balcony an Ryutaro Hashimoto to presi­elderly lady rang a small silver dents Fidel Castro of Cuba and bell and shouted, "Curse you, Leone! Fernandez of the let them go! Because of you my Dominican Republic. 


VIEWPOINT 
page 12 Tuesday, March 18, 1997 
• fiRST PRH\!CIPLES 

Bureaucracy threatens an already lacking intellectual life 

• QuoTE OF THE DAY
• DooNESB!JRY GARRY TRUDEAU 
"To knock a thing down, 
especially if it is 

cocked at an arrogant angle, 
is a deep delight to the 
blood." 
-George Santayana 

THE OBSERVER 
NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1997-98 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Brad Prendergast Managing Editor Business Manager Jamie Heisler Tom Roland Assistant Managing Editor 
Maureen Hurley News Editor........ . ......... Heather Cocks Advertising Manager...... . .... Jed Peters Viewpoint Editor .....................Dan Cichalski Ad Design Manager ........................Wendy Klare Sports Editor.. . ........ Mike Day Production Manager ....... Mark DeBoy Accent Editor. ............... .......... ] oey Crawford Systems Manager ...................... Michael Brouillet Saint Mary's Editor ........... Lori Allen Photo Editor . . .............. Katie Kroener 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. Ir does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent rhe opinion of rhe majority of the Editor-in-Chief, M:maging Editor, Assistant Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Sports Ediror, Accent Editor, Saint Mary's Editor, Photo Editor, and Associate News Ediror. Commentaries, letters and Inside Columns present ~he views of rhe aurhors, and not neces­sarily those ofThe Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's community and ro all readers. The free expression of varying opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 
Editor-in-Chief  631-4542  Business Office  631-5313  
Managing Editor/Viewpoint  631-4541  Advenising  631-6900/8840  
News/Photo  631-5323  Systems  631-8839  
Sports  631-4543  Office Manager  631-7471  
Accem/Saint Mary's  631-4540  Fax  631-6927  
Day Editor/Production  631-5303  Viewpoint E-Mail  Viewpoint. I @nd.edu  
General Information  631-7471  Ad E-Mail  observer@darwin.cc.nd.edu  

PRIVATE 
Pl1liTS 
,, 

...~U-lMfNOll~ ~UPMI M\"0... I'M ~GA\~ UUMAN Cl.CN\NG!..." 
After my last column's criticism of Right Reason, I doubt anyone would be inclined to accuse me of being partisan of that pub­lication. With my anti-Right Reason cre­dentials safely established, I now want to draw attention to the intellectual and moral stature of some of its critics -ifit's 

lrfan Khawaja 

possible to draw attention to something as small as that. 
The Feb. 7 issue of The Observer con­tained an interesting item about the hap­penings of a Faculty Senate meeting the night before. The writer, Laura Petelle, describes what happened as follows: "Faculty Senate member Robert Blakey's comments on the as-yet non-existent stu­dent bill of rights enlivened a meeting oth­erwise dominated by committee work and committee reports ... Blakey's comments came at the end of the meeting, after the senate heard a report from the Student Affairs Committee (SAC)." What did SAC's report say? "The committee reported that it spoke with William Kirk, vice president of Students Affairs, on two topics ... [T]he committee reported what Kirk said about the alleged use of Right Reason of a pro­fessor's office and student web pages. Kirk was reported as saying that while Right Reason was not a University spon­sored organization, Notre Dame allows all publications that do not break the law to be distributed on campus in the interest of free speech ..." 
The Faculty Senate is supposed to be the model of intellectual and moral discourse for a university campus. It is supposed to embody the discursive ideal of scholars engaged in something resembling the quest for truth within thB common good of a community of truth-directed inquirers. 
With this ideal in mind, please ask yourself why it is that the Student Affairs Committee of the University of Notre Dame sounds like a committee of censors appointed by a ninth-rate Communist dic­tatorship. To put the point bluntly: Just who do these people think they are? More decorously: What sort of commitment to intellectual exchange and academic free­dom docs SAC have? What sort of intel­lectual and moral example is set by puta­tive scholars who, when confronted with a publication they dislike, set out to disman­tle it by means of bureaucratic edicts? Is this the mentality of fearless intellectuals engaged in robust intellectual inquiry ­or the reign of commissars and party hacks? 
I hate to burst any bubbles here, but of all the universities I have attended or visit­ed in the last 10 years, I cannot think of one with an intellectual atmosphere quite as dull as Notre Dame's. On most cam­puses, you will lind a gaggle of silly publi­cations engaged in a variety of debates from a variety of viewpoints. One publica­tion will advocate Marxist revolution; another will argue for Victorian morality; a third will offer cultural critiques from a Jungian perspective; a fourth will tell you that all the world's problems would be solved if we would only band together and save the spotted owl. For all of that stu­pidity, however, you will at least find some intellectual life buried between the lines of bad argument. People who care enough to spend their free time putting their ideas in print and putting together a publication may not be able to argue or write, but at least they care enough to do it. Not at Notre Dame. Here, a publication starts to offend people, and the Student Affairs Committee starts to look for ways to close it down. Heaven forbid that anyone should just deal with the existence of views that offend them by ignoring them or criticizing them. 
One of the preconditions of a robust intellectual life is the freedom to write without some bureaucrat peering over your shoulder, holding out the sanction of closing you down or prohibiting your exis­tence. This is precisely what we don't have at Notre Dame, and it has to be part of the reason for why there is little genuine debate here about matters of intellectual concern. (On most campuses, students talk poli­tics and have sex; at Notre Dame, they play football and talk about those who have sex.) Want to have a debate about abortion? Too bad; there's no pro-choice group on campus, and unsurprisingly, no pro-choice speakers with whom to debate. You don't like homosexuals? Don't let them meet on campus; they'll corrupt the morals of the straight people. You're afraid of right-wing newspapers and don't know how to argue against them? Steal hundreds of copies of the right-wing newspaper and throw them in the trash? Don't worry, you can do this with impunity. If a student confiscates such publications, it's not real­ly theft, and it's not really vandalism; indeed, it's not really wrong at all. Who needs free speech when you can have free sanctimony? You don't want anyone recruiting students for religious vocations you don't like -even if they are devout Catholics? Ban them from recruiting on campus. You're a member of SAC with too much time on your hands, and you have a grudge against Right Reason? Don't argue with their views; just exercise your bureaucratic power and lind a way of legislating them out of existence. 
This is what passes for "intellectual life" at this University -and I could go on, if I had the space. Universities are supposed to be places where debate could be car­ried on in a spirit of free and unfettered inquiry. Notre Dame's intellectual leader­ship has found a way to cater to every prejudice, every whining complainer and every coward afraid of the challenges and responsibilities of that endeavor. Their guides consist of a Student Affairs Committee appointed by a Faculty Senate that makes such a big stink about "a bill of student rights" on the one hand -but appoints a committee whose sole contribu­tion to "student life" seems the ardent desire to stifle debate wherever it is to be found. 

If people want to talk about "student rights," maybe they should talk about whether students ought to have the right to free inquiry and free debate at a univer­sity that so proudly proclaims its "autono­my" and "independence" from clerical authority, and its ambitions to become a "research institution" in "the Catholic tra­dition." Genuine research institutions do not appoint "student life committees" whose sole purpose consists in sniffing around for the expression of prohibited ideas and publications and looking for ways to undermine them. And genuine research institutions don't encourage ­whether explicitly, by default, or by exam­ple -an attitude of intellectual servility and cowardice in their undergraduate population. A genuine research institution encourages unfettered debate and knows that unfettered reason will win the day. Are these expectations we can reasonably have of the Students Affairs Committee at Notre Dame? 
Irfan Khawaja is a doctoral student in philosophy. His column appears every other Tuesday. 
ACCE-NT 
Tuesday, March 18, 1997 page 13 
Di§aLility A'ft"arene§§ WeeL: ~eleLrales extraordinary people and ex~eplional Yolunleer§ 
By MELANIE WATERS with disabilities with the chance to work on assembly Choir. Assisrant Accent Ediror and manufacturing jobs. Today, there will be a panel discussion on disabilities "Local companies will contract people from Logan at the Center for Social Concerns at 7:30p.m. The dis-
In an effort to educate Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Center for jobs," she said. "It's a great self-esteem cussion will feature Notre Dame faculty members as students about the many programs available for dis-builder, and it's also a great source of independent well as parents of children with disabilities. abled persons in the South Bend· community, Logan income." On Wednesday, Notre Dame students with disabilities Center and student volunteers will be celebrat-will share their experiences with other students ing Disabilities Awareness Week at Notre at the Disability Information Fair from 12-2 Dame through Friday. p.m. in the Library Concourse. The fair will fea-
Thc many events arc co-sponsored by a vari-turc such technology as real-time close caption­ely of campus and community organizations, ing and alternatives to Braille, as well as skits according to Notre Dame senior and Logan with student volunteers and students with dis-Center volunteer Kim Yonkol'. abilities. 
"Each of the organizations has volunteers Wednesday evening at 7:30 p.m., Mary Jane that arc helping" with the scheduled events, Owen will be presenting a lecture entitled 
·A 
Yonkof said. She hopes that the week-long "Celebrating Life with Disabilities -Physician festivities will give some of the lesser-known Assisted Suicide and People with Disabilities" in groups wider campus recognition, such as Best the Center for Continuing Education Buddies and Super Sibs. Auditorium. Owen is the executive director of 
Yonkof explained that Best Buddies is a stu-the National Catholic Office for Persons with dent volunteer group that matches undergrads Disabilities and is a renowned philosopher of with disabled members of the South Bend area the disability rights movement in the United to give these residents a companion for shop-States. ping, movies, dinner, or just "hanging out." The ObseJVer/Joe stark Thursday features a Hospitality Luncheon Super Sibs is composed of students on the Notre Dame students and the Logan Center choir performed a joint concert benefitting Notre Dame student groups who Notre Dame campus who have siblings of their yesterday in LaFortune to kick off Disabilities Awareness Week. serve people with disabilities from 11 a.m. -1 own with developmental or physical disabili-p.m. at the Center for Social Concerns. ties. Yonkof said that Logan Center also operates several Finally, on Friday, the Logan Community Center will 
Most of the events, though. are sponsored by Logan group homes in the South Bend area, designed to play host for the Disability Awareness Week Dance Cnnter. Located on Edison !load just across from cam-house less severely disabled persons who are capable from 7:30-10:30 p.m. Transportation will be provid­pus. Logan Center is a day-program where South Bend of living independently with minimal supervision. ed from campus to the event, which Yonkof describes residents with mnntal or physical disabilities can par-To help raise money for Logan, student and commu-as "really informal and really fun. It's a good time to ticipatc in all levels of therapy and activities. The cen-nity volunteers are currently selling accessories for the interact with other students and center residents, and ter features a !!cad Start program for children, as well widely recognized "Logan Nose-On," which features they really love to dance and have a good time." as varying degrees of involvement for adults depending green derby hats and foam green noses that are being Over 150 students at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's on the severity of their disability. bought by students for dorm competitions this week. volunteer with disabled persons. The week's events 
Yonkof said that another benefit of Logan Center is The hats and noses are $1 each, and are still available are co-sponsored by Best Buddies, Campus Ministry, its therapeutic pool. specially designed for persons at the LaFortune Information desk. Center for Continuing Education, Center for Social . • with physical disabilities in order to improve their Throughout the week, Logan Center and its campus Concerns, Notre Dame Law School, Logan Center, mobility and manual skills. sponsors will be hosting daily events for all students. Office for Students with Disabilities, Notre Dame Right 
Perhaps the most important program, however, is Yesterday's event featured a joint choir concert by to Life, Saturday Recreation, Super Sibs, and the Notre Logan Industries, which Yonkof said provides people Notre Dame choir members and the Logan Center Dame theology department. 

Read tLis, and tLen send illo ~0 friends for good lu«:~... 
By JASON HUGGINS If that is not bad enough, Notre Dame's Office of tions of all who participated in the letter." World Wide \'\feb Correspondent Information Technologies strictly prohibits the use of After receiving the Jessica Mydek e-mail, Notre campus computer facilities for "any sort of solicita­Dame freshman Quincy Starmes was surprised.
For many Notre Dame students, e-mail chain letters tion." ( www .nd.edu/ -doc/Generai!G0001.HTML) Starmes explains, "I thought the cancer chain letter arc annoying, yet harmless. But did you know many What's worse is that chain letters are simply bad was a good idea, but I was disappointed when I found chain letters are fraudulent hoaxes or schemes that investments. You certainly won't get rich. You will out it was not true. I think [letters like this] should be 
tempt unsuspecting readers with good luck or riches'? receive little or no money. And the few dollars you banned from the Internet." Did you also know they are highly illegal'? may get will probably not be as much as you spend 
You Will Find True Love in Four Days 
making and mailing copies of the chain letter. 

What are chain letters? There is a brighter side to Internet chain letters,
Chain letters don't work because the promise is
There are three main types of e-mail chain letters. though. The third type of e-mail chain letter spreads
impossible. Also, many people participate, but do not
The first form olTers its readers phenomenal returns well-wishes with mysterious warnings of bad luck if
send money to the person at the top of the list. Some
on little or no effort In its simplest form, a chain let­copies are not made. A typical letter reads: "This letter 
others create a chain letter that lists their name
ter of this type contains a list of x people. You are sup­has been sent to you for good luck. The original has 
numerous times-in various forms with different
posed to send one dollar to the top person on the list. traveled the world 72 times. Since the letter must con­
addresses. So, in reality, all the money in a chain is
Then you remove the top person on the list, sliding the tinue to travel the world you must make twenty copies 
going to one person.

second person into the top position, add yourself in the and send them to others. Those who do send twentybottom position, make y copies of the letter, and mail A Child's Dying Wish 
copies out within 96 hours will find their love lives ful­them to your friends. The promise is that you will The second most common type of cha:in letter is a filled beyond imagination." (If you think you need a eventually receive x**y dollars in return. plea to help with a charitable cause. A recent example couple of these letters, check out 
The David Rhodes Letter spreading across Notre Dame and Saint Mary's is a http://bears.ece.ucsb.edu/
letter explaining how the American Cancer Society will 
To see an example of this type of letter, .read the personnel!astornet/humor/humor71.html)
donate three cents to cancer research for every for­
"David Hhodes" chain letter available at www.cs.rut­Letters of this type are harmless and mostly humor­gers.edu/-watrous/chain-letters.html. The letter warded e-mail copy. The text of the original reads as ous. Yet many students send them to friends saying, "I reveals an amazing testimonial promising easy riches follows: hate chain letters, but a little luck can't hurt..." And 
"Little Jessica Mydek is seven years old and is suffer­
with only minutes of work. For his conclusion, "Mr. they are probably right. But you should be aware of 
ing from an acute and very rare case of cerebral carci­
Hhodes" tells his readers, "If you believe, ... simply fol­what you arc getting into. low the easy instructions below. Your dreams will noma... The doctors have given her six months to If you have been the recipient of e-mail chain letters come true..." live... As part of her dying wish, she wanted to start a and did not send the required twenty copies, do not 
chain letter to inform people of this condition and to
Donald Watrous, a systems programmer at Rutgers fret. Your amnesty is available free at University, is the maintainer of the above web page send people the message to live life to the fullest ... (kith.org/logos/things/chain.htm), In the above letter, dedicated to educating the public about the true Furthermore, the A.'llerican Cancer Society has agreed "You are under no obligation to forward this letter. 
nature of chain letters. On his extensive web site, to donate three cents toward continuing cancer Nothing bad will happen to you because of failure to Donald warns computer users to not believe letters research for every new person that gets forwarded forward it. Furthermore, this letter absolves you of all 
this message. Please give Jessica and all cancer vic:.
like those from the David Rhodes' of the world. bad luck you might otherwise have experienced
tims a chance."

Watrous also disproves mathematically why the through failure to forward other chain letters. You can scheme will not work, and includes links examining The American Cancer Society (ACM) is greatly dis­do it too; disbelieve those letters and break the chain." legal issues concerning chain letters. turbed by this letter, however. On its web site Good advice. Now go make twenty copies ... 
(www.cancer.org/chain.html), the ACM warns "noAccording to the U.S. Postal Service 
Jason Huggins is a junior Management Information
(www.usps.gov/wehsites/ fundraising efforts arc being made bv the ACM in 
Systems from Thousand Oaks, C4. Send your favorite 
depart/inspcct/chainlct.htm), "chain letters are a [Jessica's] name or by the use of chain letters. The ACM 
e-mail chain letters to Iluggins.3@nd.edu. Or visit his
form of gambling, and sending them through the mail is troubled by this letter, which appears to have started 
homepage at www.nd.edu/-jhugginl for more infor­
(or by computer) violates Title 18, United States Code, on America Online, but has now spread throughout the 
mation about chain letters and other Web-related
Section 1302, the Postal Lottery Statute." world. Nevertheless, the ACM applauds the good inten­
issues. 

... 
... 

Tuesday, March 18, 1997 

• COllEGE BASKETBALl 
Gophers, Tigers to battle in third round 

Classifieds 
By DOUG TUCKER 
Associated Press Writer 
KANSAS CITY, Mo. 

Clem Haskins must have brought a groan from every English professor his school employs. 
"There is no 'I' in Minnesota," the coach said. 
Huh? 

Forget spelling. Haskins, whose Gophers made short work of Southwest Texas and Temple in the first two rounds of the Midwest Regional, was talking attitude. 
The top-seeded Gophers are in the round of 16, coming off a 76-57 victory Sunday over ninth-seeded Temple. That was Haskins' 300th win, and the coach can't thank the Minnesota fans enough. 
"The Minnesota fans arc un­believable," he said. "They have played a big part in my winning 20-plus games this year. They support us here and on the road. The parents also support us. They understand that I play nine guys, and they support that. ... We play as a team, and our fans like that." 
They certainly loved the way the Gophers shredded Temple's heralded matehup zone, which had held most opponents below their scoring average all sea­son. 
Sam Jacobson hit four of the Gophers' 10 zone-busting 3­pointcrs while Minnesota cen­ter John Thomas held Temple center Marc Jackson to six points, 10 below his average. 
"I tried to play the best de­fense I could and tried to help my teammates out, and my teammates gave me a lot of support," Thomas said. "It wasn't just me. It was a team effort." 
In the Midwest semifinals in San Antonio on Thursday, the Gophers will meet Clemson (23-9), a team they beat 75-65 in a tournament in Puerto Rico on Dec. 1. 
"It was a tough game, a physical game," Minnesota guard Bobby Jackson said. "We know they have matured as a team, but so have we." 
Clemson reached the round of 16 earlier Sunday by beating Tulsa 65-59 with one of the best defensive efforts so far in the NCAA tournament. Shea Seals, who averaged more than 20 points this year and on Friday became Tulsa's career scoring champion, managed just five points. 
"They put a lot of pressure on me when I had the ball," Seals said. "They played hard defensively and did a great job.' 
Seals also was hampered by early foul problems, but he de­clined to criticize the officials. 
"A foul is a foul," he said. "It did take me out of the game. I'm the captain and the senior and I should have stayed in the game but I let it affect me." 
If Seals had been able to make just a couple more shots, the Gophers would be getting ready to play Tulsa. Clemson shot just 32 percent and hit only 1-of-11 3-pointers. But the Golden Hurricane were only 4­for-22 from the line. 
Clemson guard Mer! Code, who had 15 points against Tulsa, had said he wanted an­other shot at the Gophers. lie thinks playing them once be­fore should work to the Tigers' advantage. 
"I also think they haven't seen us at our bnst," Code said. "We're both physical teams, so you can expect a war." 

Celebrate a friend's birthday with a special Observer ad. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classilleds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
CRUISE & LAND TOUR EMPLOY­ I need an affordable place to stay  • Have an auwsome, nice b-day,  
NOTICES  MENT -Discover how workers can earn up to $2,000+/mo. on Cruise  this summer. If you need a roommate or need  FOR SALE  Class of 1998 Bob Davie addresses the CLASS  Dear! Take good care of the kids for me. Ouch, cut myself!  
Ships or up to $5,000-$7,000/sum­ someone to sublet your apartment,  OF 1998 on Mar. 20th at 7:30pm.  
THE COPY SHOP  mer in the Land Tour industry!  Call  call Ryan (634-3323).  Beautiful 4 bedroom, 3 bath, 2  Tix at LaF. info desk this Wed.  Adoption: A very loving, financially  
LaFortune Student Center  Cruise Information Services:  800­ office home on 3/4 acre. wooded  FREE!!!!!!  secure, well educated young cou­ 
Phone 631-COPY Mon.: 7:30a.m.-Midnight  276-5407 Ext. C55846  FOR RENT  and private with pool, 10 minutes from campus. Many extras.  ple, long to adopt your newborn. Close and caring extended family.  
Tues.:  7:30a.m. -Midnight  $129,500.  271-7640 or 631-7459.  Day, Congrats Sports Editor  We offer a special life for your child.  
Wed.:  7:30a.m. -Midnight  Need ride to Ph illy for Easter  AFFORDABLE  1,2, & 3 BDRM  I frickin' love ya.  Expenses paid. Please call Sherri &  
Thur.: 7:30a.m. -Midnight  Will help pay  HOMES.  AVAIL.  NOW.  NEAR  Joe 1-800-378-6680.  
...  Fri.: 7:30a.m.-7:00p.m . Sat.: Noon-6:00p.m.  Bridgette X2580  CAMPUS. GILLIS PROPERTIES 272-6551  FREE Phone Card. No restrictions, Nothing to join, Nothing to lose. 19  Top 15 things overheard in and around room 134 of the Costa Real,  
Sun.:  Noon-Midnight  min. in the U.S. SASE to : Free  Cancun:  Result of the  
Open Early, Late, & Weekends  ALASKA SUMMER EMPLOYMENT  Near Campus  Phone  Card,  PO  Box  1041,  1. This place is like Disneyland ... for  "Soccer Challenge"  
-Fishing Industry.  Homes for 97-98  Logansport. IN 46947  drunks.  
Learn how students can earn up to  232-2595  2. That peacock makes a lot of  South Bend Soccer Club : 9  
HALLELUJAH NIGHT IV  $2,850/mo  + benefits  (room  &  Studying lor the LSAT or GMAT?  noise. I suppose I would too ill was  NO Seniors All-Stars :  4  
Friday, April 18. 1997  board). Call Alaska Information  Furnished upstairs apartment avail­ I've got lots of test prep books, &  trapped out there.  
7 p.m. Stepan Center  Services: 206-971-3514, xA55841.  able  to  sublet  tor  summer.  am willing to sell them at half price.  3. I suggest a new strategy: Let the  
Accepting submissions for  Washer/Dryer, wood floors. and  Call Mary at 4-4892.  tequila win.  
Poetry Readings  dishwasher.  College Park Condos.  4. You keep dancin' like that, you're  3A, it is now 1 and i am g-yukka­ 
- Submit by March 21, 1997 To: Hallelujah Night Committee  ND SRS-1 will buy your grad iix Anne 289-4922  Call ASAP x-1291.  TICKETS  gonna make it rain. 5. My name is John, and I'm here to  less! i want Mrs. H's punch! hey to everyone and all that jazz. i want to  
Campus Ministry, 112 Badin Hall  embarass the University of Notre  go home!!!  have fun you lushes!  
ILOST & FOUND I  ALASKA EMPLOYMENT ­Earn up to $3,000-$6,000+/mo. in lisherieis, parks, resorts. Airfare!  New 5 bedroom home, two ba:h, two car garage. Central air, dish­washer, disposal, tridge/icemaker,  NCAA FINAL4 2 Tix tor Semi's & Finals in Indy. B/0 Chris 243-9025  Dame. 6. Don't tell me you've come all the way from the Land of Hamburgers  king Wuz up y'aii--Thanks for stopping  
Food/Lodging! Get all the options.  washer/dryer included.  just to eat them?  by Qball and Kdawg...SpeciaiK is  
Found: Green  &  Purple  Sierra  Call (919)918-7767, ext. A154.  $1500/12 mo. lease. Call 232-4527 or 638-5038.  PERSONAL  7. Of course I promise, enough to stay here!  I paid  a sellout for not going out earlier. .. Mikey and Breeze: hope you're  
Athletic Bag with Reebok light hik­ 8. I hope you like it up the a-, cuz  recovering from St. Patrick's Day.  
ing boots and other items.  Please  CRUISE LINES HIRING- Furnished upstairs apartment avail­ Electrolysis by Rebecca  that's where you're taking it tonight.  BGeorge: Yeah, Cook it up!!  
call 277-6982 to claim!  Earn up to $2,000+/mo. plus free  able to subled for summer.  Blend Method 674-6933  9. I've never been to a hotel that  
world travel (Europe, Caribbean,  College Park Condominiums­ had parietals before.  WAY TO GO FERD-MAN!!!!!!  
WANTED  etc.). No exp. necessary. (919)918-7767, ext. C154.  washer/dryer/air conditioning/dish washer. Call 4-0745. GREAT  FAX IT FAST!!! Sending & Receiving  10. HOT-NUTS! 11. Sometimes I'm so smart, I out­ JUST MAKE SURE YOU DON'T BECOME A SON-INLAW-TOO  
(Member, Better Business Bureau  OFFER YOU CAN'T REFUSE!!!  at  smart myself.  SOON!!!  
CARE Program.)  THE COPY SHOP  12. Por que no me ama, Jenny?  
SUMMER JOBS  POTATO HOUSE 8 BEDR00M  LaFortune Student Center  13. My a-, my a-, my a-is on  SMOKIN'  BLUEGRASS  GOT  
ALL LAND/WATER SPORTS  NATIONAL PARKS HIRING­ FOR NEXT SCHOOL YEAR 277­ Our Fax# (219) 631-FAX1  fire ..  SMOKED!!!!!!  
PRESTIGE CHIDREN'S CAMPS  Plus  Forest.  Beach  Resorts,  3097  FAX IT FAST! I!  14. Tell me what you are looking  
ADIRONDACK MOUNTAINS  Ranches, Rafting Companies. Up to  for... You wanna see my sister?  WHITE TURNED RED!!!!!!!!!  
NEAR LAKE PLACID  $12/hour. Nationwide openings.  NICE HOMES NORTH OF ND FOR  BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY  15. Don't you want to buy some­ 
1-800-786-8373  Call (919)918-7767, ext. R154.  NEXT SCHOOL YEAR 277-3097  219-291-7153  thing for your boyfriend?  ...And then there were five  

Tuesday, March 18, 1997 The Observer· SPORTS page 15 
• NIT 
FSU too much for Spartans as NIT field thins 
By BRENT KALLESTAD 
Associated Press Writer 
TALLAHASSEE, Fla. 

Randell Jackson had 16 points and 11 rebounds Monday night to lead Florida State to a 68-63 victory over Michigan State in the second round of the NIT. 
Jackson. a 6-foot-11 sopho­more. grabbed his final two re­bounds and sank two free throws in the final 11 seconds to seal the victory for Florida State. 
He had 20 points and 11 rebounds in Florida State's 82­6 7 victory at Syracuse in the opening round of the tourna­ment. 
Michigan State scored eight straight points to pull within 60-59 with 1 :42 left on a 3­pointer by Ray Weathers, but LaMarr Greer countered with a 3-point shot as the 35-second clock ran out to give Florida State a 63-59 lead with 1:04 left. 
Michigan State pulled within 65-63 with 33.4 seconds left on Mateen Cleaves' layup, but Jackson's two free throws iced the game for Florida State. 
Greer and Kirk Luchman added 11 points apiece for the Seminoles (18-11 ). who will play West Virginia in the quar­terfinals. 
Ray Weathers scored 15 points for the Spartans, who 
led 39-38 at the half but shot just 28 percent in the second half. 
Cleaves, a freshman who was heavily recruited last ye.ar by Florida State, added 14 points and Thomas Kelley 12 for Michigan State (17 -12). 
The Spartans took their first lead at 26-24 with 5:13 left in the half on Antonio Smith's layup, his only basket in the first half. 
Michigan State grabbed a 39­38 halftime lead on Kelley's 3­pointer with just three seconds left in the half. 
Michigan State trailed 20-6 before going on a 14-0 run to tie the game. Jon Garavaglia scored seven points during the spurt. 
West Virginia 76, NC State 73 
RALEIGH, N.C. 
Offensive-m-inded West Virginia turned to its defense in the second round of the NIT, confusing North Carolina State with a variety of zones and then getting some key foul shooting down the stretch to pull out a 76-73 victory Monday night. 
The Mountaineers (21-9) have now won their most games since the 1986-87 team won 26. The Wolfpack closed its season at 17-15. 
West Virginia was led by Seldon Jefferson's 19 points and a 13-for-1 5 team perfor­mance from the foul line in the final 1 :33 to hold on at hostile Reynolds Coliseum. 
C.C. Harrison led the Wolfpack with 23 points. 
N.C. 
State had a chance to tie it at the buzzer, but Ishua Benjamin's 3-point attempt was short. 

N.C. 
State, No. 2 in the nation in scoring defense, had allowed only four opponents all season to score 70 or more points -and none in its last 11 games. But the Big East's highest scoring team was able to set the pace for much of the second half and control the boards against the smaller Wolfpack. 


N.C. State led 38-34 with 
17:12 left when West Virginia decided to go to a zone defense for the second time in the game. 
In the first half, it had forced the N.C. State into an 0-for-8 shooting stretch -and it worked wonders again. 
With the Wolfpack offense bogging down and confused, the Mountaineers began to force their tempo, going on a 20-5 run for a 54-43 lead. The run was keyed by three fast­break baskets off Wolfpack turnovers and West Virginia's superiority on the boards. 
N.C. State closed to 61-60 with 2:58 left, but Jeremy Hyatt lost the ball to Jarrod West in the lane and an inten­tional foul against Justin Gainey gave the Mountaineers a pair of free throws and the ball. 

Damian Owens made a layup and West added two more free throws to give West Virginia a 67-60 lead with one minute left and set up the final hectic moments, when the Wolfpack was forced to foul on defense ·and gun away from 3-point range on offense. 
Arkansas 76, Pittburgh 71 
FAYETTEVILLE, Ark. 

Arkansas' smallest player made the biggest plays in the Razorbacks' 76-71 victory over Pittsburgh in the second round of the NIT. 
Kareem Reid made several clutch plays in the final 2:11, including a steal and pass to set up Pat Bradley's go-ahead 3-pointer. 
The 5-foot-1 0 Reid also fired 
a pass to Ali Thompson for a 
basket that made it 71-67, 
stole a pass and flipped it 
behind his back as he was 
going out of bounds, and got 
the ball to Derek Hood for a 
basket that made it 73-67. 
Reid finished with 10 assists 
pointer that gave the 
Razorbacks a 61-58 lead. 
"That is a great game for 
him," said Arkansas coach 
Nolan Richardson, whose 17­
12 team will play the Hawaii-UNLV winner in the quarterfi­nals. 
Pitt coach Ralph Willard said Reid's play down the stretch made the difference. 
" Those plays were probably the most critical ... , " Willard said. 
Reid sneaked around 6-foot­11 Gerald Jordan, swiped the ball and got it to Bradley for a 3-pointer that put Arkansas ahead for good, 64-62, with 
4:53 left. 
The game was played before a raucous Arkansas crowd of 17,068 that included many fans who couldn't get tickets to regular-season games. 
"I never dared to think we would have a crowd like we had," Richardson said. "They are the reason our players played their hearts out." 
Jason Maile, who led Pitt with 18 points, scored five straight points to tie it at 55. Tarik Wallace then hit a 3­pointer for Arkansas, but Chad Varga's three-point play for Pitt (18-15) tied it again. 
The game was tied nine times. Arkansas' biggest lead was seven, and Pitt never led by more than two. 
Arkansas hit five of its first seven shots for an 11-5 lead. Jordan's three-point play gave the Panthers their first lead, 13-11, and neither team led by more than two for the next 7 1/2 minutes. 
Jordan's layup cut Arkansas' lead to 31-27 at halftime. 
and 15 points, including a 3­

Have something to say? Use Observer classifieds.  
The Implications of Global Trends for Corporate Social Responsibility Dr. Lee Tavis Fellow at both the Kellogg Institute and the Joan B. Kroc Institute for International Peace Studies. Tuesday, March 18, 1997 5:00pm • Room 161 of the Notre Dame Business School Students for Responsible BusinessSRB New Leaders for Better Business Open to the public- 

... 
... 
.... > 
...----------·~ 
page 16 The Observer· SPORTS Tuesday, March 18, 1997 
• NCAA TmmNAMENT 
Friars, Mocs shock regional 
By PAUL NEWBERRY 
Associated Press Writer 
CHARLOTTE, N.C. Providence? Must be a mis­take. Chattanooga? C'mon, get serious. 
Those are the two teams that advanced from the Charlotte bracket of the NCAA Southeast Regional? 
Indeed they are, after one of the most unlikely subregionals in the history of the tourna­ment. On Sunday, either Providence or Chattanooga will be playing for a spot in the Final Four. 
"Because we didn't play a lot of high-profile teams, nobody knew how good we really-" were," Chattanooga coach Mack McCarthy said. "We've beaten two really solid basket­ball teams. We are better than people anticipated when they see the 14 seed beside your name." 
Second-seeded Duke, with all its Final Four history, was sent home on Sunday by No. 10 Providence, which rolled to a 98-87 victory as Derrick Brown scored a career-high 33 points. 
Third-seeded Georgia dido't even last that long in Charlotte, going out in the first round at the hands of Chattanooga. 
The Mocs (24-1 0) then became only the second No. 14 seed in tournament history to reach the round of 16 with a 75-63 victory Sunday over sixth-seeded Illinois. It marked the first time that both the 10th-and 14th-seeded teams advanced to a regional semifi­nal. 
Now, it's on to Birmingham, Ala., where the two longshot teams will meet Friday night for the chance to play Sunday against the winner of the other semifinal game between top­seeded Kansas and No. 4 Arizona. 
"We're going to bring a ton of fans," said McCarthy, knowing his team will be the closest thing to a hometown favorite in Alabama. 
Providence (23-11) has been a hot-and-cold team. When they're bad, they can be very bad, as shown in an early-sea­son loss to Middle Tennessee. · But when the Friars are good, they can compete with just about anyone. 
Austin Croshere is a big for­ward who can shoot from the outside, Brown is a grinder under the backboards, point guard God Shammgod opens gaping holes in the defense with his penetration, and Jamel Thomas is a shooting guard who's best attribute might be his passing. 
In a first-round rout of Marquette, Providence shot 76 percent in the opening half against a team that had the best shooting defense in the country. 
Against Duke, the Friars shot 56 percent and dominated the boards against the shorter Blue Devils, 43-24. 
"We caught a team that was at its best," Duke guard Steve Wojciechowski said. "They were hitting the big shots. It had nothing to do with our de­fense." 
Providence coach Pete Gillen told his players this was going to be their moment. in the spot­light, not Duke's. He convinced them to believe they could beat a program which has won two national championships and been to seven Final Fou:-s since 1986. 
"I remember when I was in high school and living in California, l had never ever heard of Providence College basketball," said Croshere, who is averaging 30 points per game in the tournament. "I was always watching Duke in the Final Four. Now, in my se­nior year, to beat a team like Duke in the NCAA tournament is just a huge accomplish­ment." 
The Mocs arc concerned about the way Providence dom­inated the Blue Devils on the inside. 
"They're really big and strong," McCarthy said. "That is a problem for us." 
Then again, Chattanooga is on a pretty good roll, too. The Mocs may be a member of the obscure Southern Conference, but they have at least two play­ers who are capable of playing big-time basketball: guard Willie Young and forward Johnny Taylor. 
Chattanooga has won seven in a row and 19 of 22 since be­ginning the season 5-7. Like Providence, this is a team peaking at just the right time and playing with a passion that's reserved for teams that feel like they've been over­looked. 
"These guys have done two things no one expected them to do," McCarthy said. "Why not keep it going?" 

SHOP SUNDAY 11 AM·7 PM 
POLO SPORT FREE GIFTS 

FOR HIM 
FREE SIGNATURE GEAR BAG WITH WATER BOTTLE 
For the active man, this versatile gear bag and water bottle duo "work out" great together. Yours free with any Ralph Lauren Polo Sport fragrance purchase of $35 or more. 
For your purchase, may we suggest: Eau de Toilette Spray 2.5-oz., $35. 

~~~ .~;~U~f? ~· 

FOR HER 
FREE SIGNATURE SPORT BAG WITH COSMETICS CASE 
Get carried away with this roomy sport bag and matching cosmetidtl case. Yours free with any Ralph Lauren Polo Sport Woman fragrance purchase of $40 or more. 
For your purchase, may we suggest: Eau de Toilette Spray 3.4-oz., $40. 
UmH one free gtft per customer. 
Offers valid while supplies last 

ORDER ANYTIME CALL TOLL-FREE 1-800-528-2345 

Tuesday, March 18, 1997 The Observer· SPORTS page 17 
NIT Basketball TQ((~rf8r!Je~t SV\[ieli16 
~· -~·· ..•. .• ctJser\.e'
Texas Christian -~,.., . @j!l~ 

Florida St. 
Florida St. 

Michigan St. 

Frogs 
continued trom page 24 
hadn't heard about Windegger's words from his coach. So much for that idea. 
But in fact, the only motivation Notre Dame may need for this game is that the only way to keep playing is to win. TCU should present a challenge standing in the way. 
The athletic Horned Frogs ad­vanced to the second round by whalloping Alabama-Birmingham 85-62 in Fort Worth. 
They are a primarily a running team, led downcourt by guard Mike Jones and forward Malcolm Johnson, and they are expected to press the Irish as they bring the ball up-court. 
Although the Irish plan on run­ning the floor, they'll need to use their size advantage to control the boards and bang in for good posi­tion in the half-court offense. Phil Hickey, who started against Oral Roberts in the first round for the Irish, will again get the opening nod at center. Hickey's big body in thfil post should be a major asset for the squad. 
"Phil will match-up with (Dennis Davis). Davis is big and strong, doesn't step out too much and shoot from outside, so I think we're going to be okay in that regard," MacLeod predicted. 
Pat Garrity, who turned in 16 in the opening round win, will face up against TCU big man Damion Walker. 
The Frogs' freshman is having an impressive inaugural campaign, but Garrity's height advantage and shooting ability could allow him to have his first big night of the post­season. 
"Walker is a great player, putting up big numbers his freshman year," Garrity evaluated. "I've got a cou­ple of inches on him and we both like to get out and run, so I think it'll be a good match-up." 
Point guard Admore White led the squad with 18 points against Oral Roberts, and as he goes, so go the Irish. White tallied nine assists in the game as well, accounting for the scoring balance that MacLeod has hoped for throughout the sea­son. 
"It's good to see (White) step up and do what he's been doing. It takes the pressure off of Pat for Admore to step up and be a player late in the game, to make his free throws, to make his jump shots, or drive to the basket like what he's been doing lately. So Pat may be the focal point, but Admore is sneaking in there and taking advan­tage of the opportunities that are available to him," MacLeod said. 
Contributions from the Irish bench must come from Gotsch at center and Antoni Wyche at the two-guard. Gotsch, who tallied 15 last game in a reserve role on 7 -of­9 shooting, will be an interesting ace-in-the-whole for MacLeod. Wyche will spell Pete Miller in guarding Jones, and freshman ~eith Friel will also see playing time. 
"Our crowd has really responded to this gr.oup," MacLeod said. "They've been supportive of this team, they've embraced the team. We didn't have a big crowd the other night (3,808), but there was a lot of volume for a small amount of people, believe me. It's great when you're at home where the fans are behind you and supportive; it really makes a difference. You still have to play the game; just because the fans are making noise doesn't mean you don't have to execute, but it does give you a lift." 
"If there are people in the stands who are as excited about this as we are, then the crowd will be a fac­tor," Garrity said. "People want to 
-
see us playing in March, and the place should be packed." 
INTERNATIONAL HUMAN RIGHTS LITIGATION IN U.S. COURTS: 
State of the law and Future Prospects 
A PUBLIC CONFERENCE Saturday. ~larch 22. 1997 8:30 :t.m. 
Auditorium. Hesburgh Center for lmemational Studies 

PRESENTED BY 
The Center for (1\·d Jnd Hum.m Rtghts Notre DJm~.· LJ,, :.d'lll\ll 
IN COOPERATION WITH 
The Midwest c~laht1PI1 f,,r Hum.m Rt~hLS The AmencJn s~I(ICI~ ~lr lnh.:m.HtLln~ll l..J.w 
C.L.E. crcd11 J\·.uL1bk· 

BRIEF DESCRIPTION 
Since <he fir»t modem use of the Alien Tort Sutu« noarly twenty ye~"' ago. tn\S law has been the pnmary basis for sutng human rights violator» in United States Couru. As the number of ATS cases has grown. complex jurisdictional and orner issues have 3rtsen in litigauon, including hod of state and other immunities. jury trials. scope of damages and other n:medies, enforcement of JUdgements, and, most n:cently. cor?or.~te liabihty under <he statute.. 
At <his conference, <he lingator» of me major ATS cases will discuss problems and issues <hat have arisen in practice. The program will solidt the views of the judidary. <he St.'ue Department, and representatives of foreign governments on the issues ratS<d by <he Conference. Orner potential statutory bas<S for suing human rights violator.. will also be discussed. Partidpants will receive Conference pape.rs, case and bibliographical references. 
CONFERENCE AGENDA 
SATURDAY, MARCH 22, 1997 
8:30a.m.  REGISTRATION&: REFRESHMENTS  
8:'15-9:00 a.m.  WELCOME Dean Da·o'ld T. Unk joseph A. MatsOn Doan & Professor of law. Notre Dame law School  

MORNING SESSION 

9:00-10:00 a.m. ALIEN TORT CLAIMS: FILARTIGA AND BEYOND Chair. Mamn D'Ur»>. Attorney Kohn, Swift & Graf. Phtladdphia 
julisdicuon: Violanons of Trtants or che Law of Nanons Professor Dinah Shelton Noue Dame law School 
Ba,.,;,rs: lmmunin<s, Act of Slille, Forum non Convrnttns Professor Ralph Stetnhardt George Washington law School 
Damages and Remulies Peter Weiss, Attorney Center for Constitutional Rights, New York 
10:00 a.m. BREAK 

10:15-11:15 a.m. LmGATING THE CLAIMS Chair: Cr'.stobal Bonifaz. Attorney 
Prtpanng the Case and the Gu:nc Abebc-Jira v Negewo Paul HolTman, Allomey 
Smkmmts: Ltssons from Sidmnan Professor Michael Bar.ler Whimer law School' 11:30-12:30 a.m. COMMENTARY 
A View from the Bench 
The Honorable DaVId Thompson, judge. Unlled St:~tes Coun of Appeals for me Ninth Circuli 
A View from the Stale D<partment DaVId Stewan. AsslSWlt L<gal AdVISer for Human Rights and Refugees 
A View from Abroad 
Dullah Omar (inVIted) Miruster of jusnce of South Alrica 
12:30-2:00 p.m. LUNCH The Moms Inn (pre·re~trauon requtred) 
AFTERNOON SESSION 
2:00-3:15 p.m.  OTHER BASES OF JURISDicnON  
The Tonure Vu:ams Protecnon Act,  
Prohibllton on Importation of Goods  
Produced by Forrcd Labor, Fetieral  
QutsllDn, RICO  
Professor Bern Stephens  
Rutgers-Camden Law School  
Professor Roben Blakey  
Notr< Dame law School  
3:15-3:30 p.m.  BREAK  
3:30-5:00 p.m.  NEW ISSUES  
Amnesty Laws and Corporare  
CompliCity  
Professor Diane Orentlicher  
American Untver»ny law School  
Prof<SSOr Ralph Steinhardt  
George Washington law School  
5:15p.m.  CLOSING REMARKS  

• 

• 
·~·-­

page 18 The Observer • SPORTS Tuesday, March I 8, 1997 
• fENCING 
Fencers establish solid position for NCAA's 
By DAVID FRICK 
Sports Writer 
When the fencing squad trav­eled to Wayne State to compete in the Midwest Regional quali­fier March 1-2. its main goal was to place themselves in position to win a national championship. After success­fully qualifying the maximum 10 fencers. the team may con­sider that goal accomplished. 
As the meet neared its conclusion, the question was not whether or not 10 fencers would qualify, but which 10. Women's epee, as well as men's foil and sabre, saw Irish fencers battling each other to make it to next weekend's NCAA championships in Colorado Springs, Colo. 
The women's epee event saw junior captain Anne Hoos and sophomore Nicole Mustelli bat­tle for the right to travel next weekend. Hoos was forced to battle from a lower seed, but managed to finish third for the second consecutive year. 
"I chose not to know my seed. I figured that if I knew I had a poor seed, I might fence to that lower level," said Hoos. 
-
In the men's foil competition, sophomore Stephane Auriol came from a fifth seed to finish second to join his captain and three-time Midwestern Foil Champion senior Jeremy Siek. Auriol battled with tenacity in overcoming fellow foilist and third seeded freshman Chas Hayes, who finished fifth. 
"I knew at the beginning of 

the day that I was going to do well. I stayed focused and fenced well the entire day," said Auriol. 
"Stephane performed well when he had to. I'm really proud for the way he came back from a lower seeding," said father and head coach Yves Auriol. 
The men's sabre produced the greatest drama as three Irish fencers tied for first at the end of the day. Forced to a fence-off, sophomore Luke LaValle and senior captain Bill Lester overcame senior Jeff Wartgow. Though Wartgow was a lower seed, he battled with such effort as to draw praise. 
"Jeff fenced absolutely awe­some. I've never seen him do any better. It's too bad we couldn't send all three of us," said LaValle. 
Wartgow would be competing in his final match in an Irish uniform. Though disappointed that his career was over, Wartgow could enjoy the man­ner in which he finished. 
"This was the best I've fenced at college. The way I fenced makes me want to keep going, but it's nice to go out with a bang," said Wartgow. 
Joining these team members in Colorado will be women's freshman epeeist Magda Krol, women's sophomore foilists Sara Walsh and Myriah Brown and men's junior epeeists C,J. Jackson and Brian Stone. These 10 fencers have the con­fidence and skill to bring a national title back to Notre Dame. 
"We are going to whip some tail," said Jackson. 


dto 

• 


---~----..........,...-----~----------~--~----------------------------------~--~---­


Tuesday, March 18, 1997 
The Observer • SPORTS 

• Mnls TENNIS 
Netters cruise over break 
By JIM ZALETA Spans Writer 
The men's tennis team racked up four wins over spring break to improve their record to 13-4. The now 20th­ranked Irish began with a big win over the University of Iowa on Friday. 
The Irish won all six singles matches and all three doubles matches to defeat the Ilawkeyes 7-0. The Haw keyes fell to 6-3. 
Notre Dame also won three matches and lost one in the semi-finals over the weekend at the Blue-Gray National Classic. 
The Irish won their first round match against the University of Alabama­Birmingham 4-1, in a match suspended due to the weather. Freshman Hyan Sachirc, who is ranked 50th in the country, easily defeated Martin Woisctchlager in two sets, 6-2, 6-4, in No. 1 singles. 
That moved Sachirc' record to 7-2 at the lead singles spot. It took junior Jakub Pietrowski two tic-breakers to beat Kolie Vanzyl. lie won 7-6, 7-6 hang­ing on to his early lead at No. 2 singles. 
Sophomore Brian Patterson continued his streak at number four, improving his record at that spot to 5-1, winning in two sets 6-2. 6-4. 
Junior Danny Rothschild won at No. 5 with what would be his first in an undefeated weekend in both singles and doubles. 
Senior llyan Simmc lost the only match for the Irish falling 6-2, 6-2 to Anthony Parun at the third singles spot. Junior Eric Enloe and Mark Vrzal were not able to finish their match. 
The doubles matches were not played either. 
Attention candidates-to-be: 
There will be an information 
meeting for all class officer and off~campus candidates 
Wednesday, March 19 5:30p.m. 2nd Floor ofLaFortune 
Questions? Calll--4553 
F.Y.I. -CLASS OFFICE ELECTlONS ARE ON MONDAY MARCH 24! 
Notre Dame faced No. 10­ranked Virginia Common­wealth in the second round. The Irish won the doubles point and three singles match­es to give them the 4-3 win. 
Virginia Commonwealth swept the first three singles matches, but the bottom half of the Irish line played strong to grab then the victory. Sachire won the first set, but then dropped two including a tie breaker to end the match to ranked opponent Oliver Tauma 3-6, 6-1, 7-6. Pietrowski fell to Daniel Anderson in two sets, 7­5, 7-5. 
This was only the second time that the Irish have lost at both No. 1 and 2 singles this season. The previous time was in the 6-1 loss to 18th ranked Kentucky on Feb. 11. The Irish recorded tiH~ir lone point by winning the doubles matches, as Kentucky swept all six sin­gles matches. 
Simme also had trouble with Virginia Commonwealth. lie fell in two sets to Richard Wernerthelm 6-1, 6-1. Notre Dame has proved strong at the No. 4, 5, and 6 positions this season. 
Friday afternoon, the three pulled through to capture the three points needed to win the match. Patterson easily de­feated Manual Kropfreiter in sets. Kropfreiter only earned two points off of the sophomore in the two sets that he lost 6-1, 6-1. 
Enloe improved his season record to 11-4 and his overall singles record to 23-7 with his defeat of Paschal Salasca in two sets. Enloe has been a hid­den hero for the Irish as of late. 
"Right now my confidence is high, I'm coming to play hard and doing well," Enloe said. "Everyone is working hard and we arc all very focused in both 
matches and practices." 
Notre Dame won the No.2 
and 3 doubles matches. .Sachire and Freshman Trent Miller defeated Salasca and Laurent Guillem at the No. 2 spot. Rothschild and Simme won over Wernerthelm and Lundberg 8-4. The pair im­proved to 2-0 at the third dou­
bles spot. 
On Friday evening, the Irish 
faced regional foe Illinois. 
Earlier this season Notre Dame 
beat Illinois S-2. Friday 
evening the Irish continued 
their hot streak, winning their 
fifth match in a row. The Irish 
defeated Illinois 4-1 in a short­
ened match. 
Sachire continued his quest 
for the top with a victory over 
Gavin Sontag. Sontag grabbed 
the second set from Sachire, 
but he rebounded to win 6-4, 
4-6, 6-3. He improves to 30-7 
on the season. 
Cary Franklin defeated 
Pietrowski at No. 2 singles in 
three sets. After falling 6-2 in 
the first set, Pietrowski came 
back and shut out Franklin in 
the second. 
In a slug-fest in the deciding 
set, Franklin prevailed and 
defeated the Notre Dame 
junior. 
Simme had a little difficulty 
with Jerry Turek in the first 
set, but sat him down in the 
second winning 7-6, 6-1. 
Patterson continued his flaw­
less tournament with an easy 
victory over Oliver Freelove. 
Winning the first set 6-3, 
Patterson continued and shut 
out Freelove in the second. 
The other two singles matches 
were not played. 
In their semi-final match on 
Sunday against South Alabama, 
the Irish were defeated 4-3. 
As the Irish wrap up their 
season, they will face two of 
their hardest matches. 

Expose yourself to some­
thing really bright this 
summer-the chance to 
wrap up a required course 
or get a jump on finishing 
your degree-at Loyola 
University Chicago. 
Enroll in our Summer 
Sessions (May 19-June 20 
and June 30-August 8) 
and get something that 
outlasts a tan: 
· • A superior education with 
top-quality faculty at 
Loyola, rated as one of the 
nation's "best" universities. 
• 
A wide choice of under­graduate courses in \ business, arts and sciences, education and nursing, including Political Science (PLSC) 211: The American Presidency. 

• 
Access to 400+ networked computers and one of the nation's top-ranked university library systems. 


Nationally Recognized. Individually Focused. 
LOYOLA 

For The Summer Sessions Catalog, t; ~j·I ~ UNIVERSITY Call Today: ~ §CHICAGO ~ ..:J 
1·800·7·LOYOLA, ext. 72014
0 c;:,
~~At.~~,, 
Or visit our Web site: http://www.luc.edu 
Univefsity Chicago is an educator and 


• Flexible class schedules­days, evenings and weekends-at Loyola's four Chicago-area campuses, plus a convenient touch-tone registration (TTR) system. 
Summer Sessions 
May 19-June 20 June 30-August 8 
Enroll now. 


s baseball career might be com­ing s~;wn. One Of. baseball's ]J'iCes~ gtiys has some of the sport's worst stats~ 
After four spring training appearances, lle's pitching 
even  · ··  ··  ·  ··  ·  ·lastyear.  
when  -18 with a  
7.48  ·  the major  

page 19 

·'s Abbott 
Succeeding despite not hav­ing a right hand has made l]iin inspirational to many. He even pitched a no-hitter for the New York Yankees against Cleveland in 1993. 
But his velocity disappeared last season. And the winter was filled with pressure. Abbott and his wife, Dana, had their first child, Madeleine Destiny, born early on Dec. 15. Would his birth d~{ect be passed on? 
''1 was scared to death," he told the Los Angeles Times before spring training. 
·His worst fears were not realized. 
"She's perfect. Just per­fect," Abbott said, admitting to the Times that he counted all her fingers and toes as she was born. 
Now, there's a different kind >Qfpressur¢, It's only baseball, but it is his career. 
"Coming off a season like 
~~st yea~, it's up to me to prove I <;?,n come back from that," he said. "The results e to be there for me; I · that, keep 
This summer, why not swap SPF 1S for PLSC 211? 
~ 
' 
page 20 
-

~---~~--~--­
~­
The Observer· SPORTS Tuesday, March 18, 1997 

• SOFTBALL 

Sooner Classic leads to strong improvement 
By ALLISON KRILLA 
Sports Writer 
After a rocky 2-7 start, the Notre Dame softball team rebounded with a successful spring break tour, capturing the Sooner Classic consolation Championship in Oklahoma Cuty, Okla., and improving its overall record. 
The Irish lost to No. 22 Baylor in the first game of the tourna­ment, nearly pulling off the upset in the seventh inning, leaving the bases loaded after hits by Liz Perkins and Sarah Mathison and a two-out walk to Kelly Rowe. The 3-2 defeat handed Notre Dame their fifth one-run loss of the season. 
A 7-5 defeat of Kansas snapped a five-game skid for the Irish. Sarah Mathison led the offensive explosion with a two-run homer in the second inning. Notre Dame pounded out eight hits, with Jenn Giampaolo and Perkins con­tributing two apiece. Kelly Nicols recorded her first win of the season for the Irish. 
Another Mathison home run powered the Irish to the conso­lation finals of the Sooner Classic with wins over Stephen 
F. Austin and Northwestern. Joy Battersby picked up her first win of the season, allowing only three hits by Stephen F. Austin. The offense belted out 11 hits in support, led by Perkins, Mathison and Korrie Allen, who each had two hits. 
Wins against Witchita State and Kansas gave the Irish the Sooner Classic consolation championship and a 5-2 record for the tournament. Captain Meghan Murray knocked in one run and scored two more to help the Irish top the Shockers, while Nicols picked up win number two, stranding 10 run­ners in the final six innings for the complete game victory. In the Kansas game, RBis by Murray, Mathison and captain Katie Marten made the differ­ence for Notre Dame in the 4-2 win. Angela Bessolo retired the final three batters in the sev­enth after allowing a leadoff single to seal her third win of the season. 
Against 15th-ranked Missouri, the Irish rallied for 

five runs in the sixth inning, but fell to a strong Tiger team by a 6-5 score. Pinch-hitter Amy Laboe's two-run single keyed the Irish rally. Marten and Kara McMahon went 3-for-4 and Perkins and Mathison con­tinued their hot hitting con­tributing two hits each in the losing cause. 
At the National Invitational Tournament in San Jose, Calif., the Irish faced Loyola Marymount and Colorado State 
TEACH ENGLIS!:.t~Jl"ERN EUROPE 
PRAGUE • BUDAPEST • KRAKOW 
How would you like to teach basic conversational English in Eastern Europe? Our materials profile many rewarding teach1ng opportunicies with great benefits. For information call: 
(206) 971-3684 Ext. K55845 

in the opening rounds of pool play. The team secured two victories to improve its rocord to 9-10. Seventh inning heroics by Jenn Giampaolo in the form of a two-run double, which scored Murray and pinch-hitter Lisa Tully, pulled out the win for Notre Dame. Angela Bessolo improved her record to 4-5 with the win. The 7-4 defeat of Colorado State was powered by Marten and Murray's 2-for-3 performances at the plate. A 2-1 win over New Mexico completed the Friday sweep for the Irish. 
Bessolo and Nichols com­bined for the 1-0 win over Evansville on Saturday, with Nichols picking up her 17th career save and the first of the 1997 season. She is just two saves shy of the NCAA record for career saves. 
After three weeks of travel­ing, the Irish look forward to their home opener on Tues., March 25 against Indiana. The Irish and Hoosiers faced off earlier this season, resulting in a 10-1 victory for Indiana. 
• GOLF 

Plarclin leads lr1sh linksters 
By GENE BRTALIK out there. Sports Writer Connell has vastly improved over the past two weeks. He 
While many students were has learned to control his relaxing along the warm power gatne. sunny shores of Florida, both This plus the fact that he the Notre Dame men's and putted well enabled him to woman's golf teams were achieve that score1 according playing 18 holes .in the to Thomas. ::;:: Hi Sunshine State. The third rotfnd saw the 
The men played in the Irish remain in the same place Golden Oc~J.la Intcrc~llegiate in the St(lndings, finishing with fro:tn.Ma.tchlia-14. ,.Alf•r .•_... a.scoreof902, 'f'hisputthem 
The men were led bysopho· _.,one stroke behind Marquette more Brad Hardin in the first for fifth place and four strokes ro$d.. ~md he also carded the ahead of seventh place finish· 
i lowest ·score for the team with er Jacks()nville:J!ilt;;( .: a 226. ixt "The-team played welLhi ~a 
"He is quickly developing tournament that was meant to int? .the ~~~Lplayer on the be for ~prlng tr~I.ning. I yvasteam;'' temarked Coach ·especially pleas~d thafthe George Thomas. ··· team as a w.hole had a stroke 
In the second round, the average of 75 over the three !e~m W~ts •. J~d by a trio o~.,,; •• rounds,'lstated Thomas 
;mryoungsters that put them into<+>> Next up for the Irish the second place. Hardin shot a Btttler University Invitational, 77, and freshman Todd March 30-31. 
..;.,ye~g?? matched his opening The•.1Yomen's team took partround score with a 77. But in tWo''events over break;'' The the surprise of the day was first was the Peggy Kirk Bell freshman Jeff Connell, who Invitational which saw the shot a ono qvor par 73 on a Irish capture 12th place course whose holes resemble amongst a field laden with tal­many of the famous courses ent. The Irish were led by the consistent play of Miss Michigan golf freshman Beth Cooper. Cooper shot a team low 255, four ahead of her closest teammate. 
"I was impressed with the way the team as well as myself played, especially on this course. This course was one of the toughest any of us had ever played. It also didn't help that it.was narrow and filled with many different haz­ards," stated Cooper. 
Two days later, the team was back in action at the Snowbird Intercollegiate tout.". nament. The women finished 10th this time and were led by their two captains Tracy Melby and Katie King. Both shot final round scores of 77, and finished within the top 30 golfers. Also impressive was the fact that four out of the six golfers improved on their first round score. This allowed them to jump four places to 10th. 
Next for the woman's team is the Indiana University Spring Invitational to be played in Bloomington, Indiana on April 3-4. 

Please Recycle  Welcome Back!  
The Observer  Ballroom Dance  
resumes tonight!  


Happy 21st Birthday 

March 18th 
Matthew! 

6:00-8:00 p.m.Keep 
Stepan Center 
S01iling! 
Love, 

We will be learning the foxtrot 
Mom, Dad, & 

and reviewing others.
Scott 

RIP OFF THIS COUPON INSTEAD OF YOUR ROOMMATE'S FOOD. 
There,s an easier way to get free food. Just rip offthis part ofthe paper and come to Fazoli,s. When you purchase any adult entree, we,ll give you a free garden salad. Ifs a steal. 
r---------------------------,
I FREE GARDEN SALAD I 
I I I I I I  $1.09 value with purchase ofone adult entree  1 1 I I I I  
:  52770 US Route 33N, 277-4008, South Bend  :  

LOne coupon per person, per order at participating Fazoli's only. Not valid with any other offer. Expires 5/31/97 .J 
EMPLOYMENT IN AMERICA'S 
NATIONAL PARKS 
Find out how to begm your job search 
in National Parl<s, Forests, and Wildlrte 
PreseNes. 



--------------------~~--~--­
--~~-----------------­
Tuesday, March 18, 1997 The Observer· SPORTS 
1:23 remaining. 18 from the line. However, The biggest of all the Morgan's first attempt was off
Upset 
Longhorns, Carla Littleton, an­the mark and Texas, trailing by swered with a layup. Littleton's one, had possession with 19
continued from page 24 
size and strength wreaked seconds left. home court advantage, it was havoc for the Irish as she went Coming out of the time-out, the day of the Irish. Notre seven for eight from the field the Irish needed just one de­Dame found themselves down for 14 points. Head coach fensive stop to make the Sweet 
by as many as seven in the first Muffet McGraw had her squad Sixteen. After a Texas miss, 
stanza and down by five with began to eat some clock as time Morgan ripped the rebound and three minutes remaining in the was on Notre Dame's side with was fouled. contest. the lead. After a miss by Morgan made good of this op­
With Notre Dame trailing 79-Gaither, Bohman snagged one portunity at the line as she 7 4 and all the momentum and of the biggest rebounds of her knocked down both shots. the hometown crowd behind career as she gave her squad a The final prayer by the hosts 
Texas, sophomore guard Sheila fresh shot clock. was blocked and the Irish McMillen and Beth Morgan With just 37 ticks remaining, erupted with excitement as canned back-to-back treys to Morgan stepped to the line with they had just made history. put the Irish on top for good. a one and one opportunity. "We've gotten better each On the next trip down the After Morgan's free throws year," Augustin said. "This is floor, Morgan looked to dial Texas forward Vanessa Wallace definitely the best victory yet long distance again, but she quickly scored on a layup cut­and we're still planning to go was fouled as she attempted ting the lead back to one. pretty far into the tournament. another three. Morgan hit two After Wallace's deuce, the Our confidence is pretty high of three from the charity stripe Longhorn's fouled Morgan who right now and we're looking to put the Irish up 82-79 with finished the game going 14 for forward to the next game." 
Finance Club Run-Off Election 
Voting: When: Wednesday, 3/19 +Thursday, 3/20 11:30 AM-1:45PM 
Where: Stock Exchange Booth in COBA 
Attention: 
Only Finance Club Members May Vote! 
-=SAFERIDHW 
Leave the driving to us. 
Call this weekend! 
Friday and Saturday 10 p.m. 3 a.m. 631-9888 


The Observer/Mike Ruma 

Senior forward Rosanne Bohman contributed 16 points and a number of key rebounds as the Irish advance to the Sweet Sixteen. 

Gonzaga-in-Florence Italy 
Tours of Italy and Course Work 
Renaissance Summer Program May 13 -June 27, 1997 -and-Junior Academic Year Abroad Progam 
Open to college students, professionals, seniors and other adults. 
Apply by April 1 
STUDIES ABROAD 
GONZAGA UNIVERSI1Y 
Spokane, WA 99258 509-328-4220, Ext. 3549 or 800-440-5391 reynolds1Ygu.gonzaga.edu 

-
.------~---·-' 
··--------­
Need a job for the 1997.. 98 academic year? 
Student Activities is now acceptir g applications for: 
LaFortune Building Manager~ Stepan Center Manage'r:i Information Desk Attendants Office Assistants Ballroom Monitors Sound Tcchnidan~ Games Room Attendants Building Set Up Crew 2 4 Hour Lounge Monitors ND Cake Service 
Applications are available at 31 5 LaFortune. 
Deadline for applying is Friday, March 21 . 

-------------~---­
-
page 22 

Mesa accused of rape 
By KEN BERGER 
Associated Press Writer 
DUNEDIN. Fla. 
Jose Mesa has returned to Cleveland so he can attend Tuesday's preliminary hear­ing regarding rape and other charges. 
Manager Mike Hargrove said Mesa left the team Sunday night and will return Tuesday after the hearing. The Indians don't know whether Mesa will be avail­able for the start of the sea­son April 2 at Oakland. 
"I haven't heard any­thing," Hargrove said after Monday's 5-2 loss to Toronto. 
Mesa, who has one save and a 1.04 ERA this spring, is scheduled for trial March 
31. Mesa's lawyers have asked a judge to throw out the pitcher's arrest, alleging that police used a ruse to take Mesa into custody and did not advise him of his rights. 
Mesa, 30, has pleaded innocent to one count of rape, two counts of gross sexual imposition, one count of felonious assault and one count of carrying a con­cealed weapon. He is free on $10,000 bond. 
The charges are related to a complaint by two women that Mesa and a friend improperly touched them Dec. 22 after meeting at a Cleveland nightclub. 
Police in Lakewood, Ohio, where the complaint was filed. have said they acted properly when they made up a story to get the pitcher out of his home before arresting him Dee. 27. Capt. Alan Clark said they wanted to spare Mesa the em­barrassment of being arrest­ed in front of his wife and six children. 
Defense lawyer Gerald Messerman said this made Mesa's arrest illegal. 
Messerman also has filed a motion that >vould require prosecutors to be more spe­cific about the charges against Mesa, who has con­verted 85 of 92 save oppor­tunities the last two seasons. 
Mesa's friend and co­defendant, David Blanco, 34, of Solon, also has pleaded innocent to charges of gross sexual imposition and a gun charge. 

Fans 
continued from page 24 
March. No current students were around when the Irish went to the 1992 NIT final. Unless you felt a connection to a team in that other tournament on CBS, past Notre Dame squads left little hope of the stu­dent body being committed to the college basketball asylum. Well, every little thing is going to be all right. 
After a solid victory against Oral Roberts last Wednesday, the chance now presents itself to taste a little bit of the in9ani­ty other schools gear their entire social calendar around. 
For the victory, the Joyce Center was awarded another game despite 3808 people at the first round meeting. It holds almost 11,000. 
The attendance ligure of the first round created more slum­ber than bedlam. Now, with students back, ESPN has just as much right to televise a raucous crowd as NBC does. 
You may accuse me of sneak­ing a reefer past customs, but this should be a big thing and there should only be one thing to say. 
Go to the damn game. 
If you want to see how the other half lives, buy your ticket at the dining hall. If you don't know where the Joyce Center is -and judging by this year's student section, a majority of you don't -another box office has opened for your conve­nience. 
So before picking up the next chicken patty, pick up an NIT ticket for tonight. 
Keep the stub. Show it to the grandkids. No telling when Notre Dame will be playing this late in March again. 
Just to repeat, the Notre 
The Observer • SPORTS 
Dame men's basketball team is still doing what they're sup­posed to be doing. It may not seem that astounding, but after Sunday, only 32 Division I teams have yet to elean out their lockers. 
Sixteen in the NIT. Sixteen others in the Big Dance. 
Yeah, Notre Dame got invited to the SYR instead of the for­mal, but as it has been well­documented, that's no reason to throw away the tap shoes. 
No NCAA, no cry. 
Others have been shedding tears, however. As opposed to the sweet 16, others seem to mandate the NIT version be the sour 16. 
There were rumblings around Ann Arbor that Michigan would decline an NIT invitation because they were excluded from the NCAA tournament. Syracuse and Jim Boeheim also made similar noises as they failed to show up against Florida State in the first round and made an early NIT exit. 
Well, Michigan "swallowed their pride" and might even face the Irish if both toams win their second round games. 
That's enough to excite both North and South Dining Ilall managers alike. 
But for now, Texas Christian is the next obstade on the road to Madison Square Garden. 
Dare to dream. 
NIT Final Four. 
It's a possibility. A good bet as long as the team doesn't leave South Bend. 
Irish fans can only hope a re­turn trip to tho Big Apple is somewhat less painful. 
Tonight, however, the Irish are at home where they tend to put on a good show, having won seven in a row at Joyce High. 
So bring along your favorite football cheer and make the trek to the second round of the NIT. 
Tuesday, March 18, 1997 


"As You Wish"* 
Imports 

Lots of Bali Rings, Great Jewelry, Bali Dresses!, Wooden Beaded Curtains, Bamboo Jewelry Great Selection of Environmental Jewelry 
Clearance Sale 
Stop by to look, buy or just visit! FREE gift with every purchase! 
Portion of proceeds funds the education of 6 Guatemalan children ANY coins dropped in our jar· Would be greatly appreciated! THEY ADD UP! 
LaFortune Room 108 (By telephones) March 17th-March 21st 5 days ONLY! 10am-5pm Early bird gets the worm! 
The Observer/Mike Ruma Junior star Pat Garrity will be looking for his first breakout performance of the post-season when he faces TCU tonight. 
~ VILLANOVA UNIVERSITY 
f~s~=97 
~ 

GRADUATE and UNDERGRADUATE COURSES DAY and EVENING CLASSES 
BUSINESS  COMPUTER SCIENCE  
ENGINEERING  NATURAL SCIENCE  
MATHEMATICS  SOCIAL SCIENCES  
THE ARTS  EDUCATION  
COUNSELING  HUMANITIES  
LANGUAGES  NURSING  


(610)519-4343 

r.------------------­
VILLANOVA UNIVERSITY Summer Sessions Office 1Villanova, PA 19085-1696 I 
I Please marl me a current Summer Bulletin 

I 
I Name ___________ I 
I 
--~I 1 Address ___ 
·--------------------I 
I City/State/ Zip I 
L--------------------~~ 
coach davie 
Umited numbers of **Free** tickets still remain at the l.afun Info desk for Coach Davie's talk to the juniors at 7 pm Thursday at DeBart I 0 I. 
Presented by the Office ofCareer & Placement 
• Tuesday
JUNIOR 

March t8, 4pm.JOB SEARCH ORIENTATION • Thursday 
. d . March 20, 4pm
Des1gne to g1ve you an. qv_erv~ew of th~ • Mondayact1v1tles _tnvolved 1n March 24, 6:30pm
preparation for the job seach your senior. Tuesday year. March 25, 4pm 
Workshops last one hour

Snacks and Ubations 
and are neld in the ND to follow. Room, 2nd Floor LaFun. 
Tuesday, March 18, 1997 The Observer • TODAY page 23 


MIXED MEDIA JACK OHMAN YOUR HOROSCOPE 
8ERT A""o ERNIE'S GANCiSTA RAP 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY! IN THE NEXT YEAR OF YOUR LIFE: Your greatest success will come from patching up a misunderstand­
AA.8UIIilol\··· 
...WORO "0 


ing. Volunteer activities are the an­swer to someone's loneliness. Urge loved ones to get involved in com­munity life. New business associates will send your career in a different direction. A plan you have labored on for a long time will impress YIPs. A contract or raise is in the works. As Thanksgiving approaches, Cupid's atTow hits home. A new ro­mance will seem as if it were made in heaven! 

CELEBRITIES BORN' ON THIS DAY: speed skater Bonnie
MIKE PETERS 
Blair, novelist John Updike. actress Vanessa Williams, songwriter Wil­son Pickett. ~ 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Let others know that they cannot take you for granted. Be sure to ask for any money or time off that is due you. Making your position clear \\'ill save you problems in the future. 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Joining forces with a former em­ployer or client could be a very good idea. Getting a business agreement in writing will prevent any un­pleasant surprises later on. Stick to the rules to win! 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): A challenge will bring out the best in you. By rearranging your schedule, you will instantly become more effi­cient. Reconsider a decision con­cerning a child; leniency is advised. 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): Your independent nature pays off. A big contract could result from 1\'0rk done on spec. Be leery of a business acquaintance who makes extra,·a­gant claims. 
SCOTT ADAMS 
• LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): LiYe up to your reputation as a mcwer-and-
PAT BOONE'S METAl AL9U.MH. WNAT'S NEl(T? 

MEDIA 1996@ AOLCOM 
MOTHER GOOSE & GRIMM 
BAP.NEY'S GEN X .ALBUM. 
I 


DILBERT 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 33Carroll 59 Certain shirt adventuress 
GO Anxiety
1 Pickle container 34 Caused 
61 Wanderer4 Motionless 
disharmony 

62 Japanese
9 Fashion 
38 Napping spots 

honorific 14 Matriarch of all 
39 Magazine matriarchs 
exhortation 

DOWN 
15 Actor Romero 40 Break in relations 1 High-fliers
16 Boiling 41 Out of business 2 Fly 
11 Weighed in 43 Compaq products 
3 Change tactics
20 Light lunches 46--Miss 
4 Like an eclair 
21 To any extent 47 Engulfs in 
5 Composer22 List-ending 
Rorem and abbr. 
amusement 

others48 Cream 
23 Moo juice 
6 Superlative container 
ingredient 

ending
49 Tear to shreds 25 Grp. overseeing 1 Short cheer
51 Part of MOMA

toxic cleanups a Firestone
53 Blabbed

28 Perfect rating features 
57---pedis29 Most prudent 9 Clergyman
(athlete's foot) 31 Become raveled 
10 Kind of surgery
58 Take to the 1 t Indoor court
32 Painful spots stump 12 Indian with a bear dance ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 13 Some M.I.T. 


grads 18 Chum t9 Leave be 23 Wielded 24 Partner of 
search 26Warsaw-­27 Word of assent 29 Canton 
cookware 30 Land west of 
Eng. :11 Cur:r-':t 32 ;.jing 
"shooby-doo 33 Out for the night 34 Aggravate 

35 Part of a church serv1ce 
36 Piano-playing Dame 37 Ariz.-:o-Kan. dir. 
38 Sigr e~f stage success 41Pro:;:ssor Plu-s game 42 p 0 ~ 7 -anian. for 
:. 3 Si.:~ _· ·-·..: To:c~s 
44 Wir,:~w of an eye 
JEANE DIXON 
shaker and VIP' will open new doors to you. Be modest when your contributions arc recognized pub­licly. The approval of your mate is what counts most. 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): A diplomatic approach will keep everyone cooperative today. A secret business deal could have hidden pit­falls. A tradeoff cements an impor­tant husiness or career alliance. 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): may come as a shock that a VIP ' secret admirer of yours. Keen h ness instincts help you uneartl· excellent money-making oppom ty. News of a special ruling · brighten your evening. 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. .J: Taking a newcomer's adYice could steer you off course. Put your per­sonal imprint on everything you do. Question information received from someone at a distance. 
SAGITTARIUS (No\. 22-Dec. 21 ): A great day for networking. Do more socializing for bu'\iness pur­poses. Someone new may prove lucky for you. A revealing private talk results in an important pact. 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Your strong work ethic will trigger a profitable business breakthrough. Proven methods and a steady work pace will help you accomplish great things. 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): 
You can expect to make a positive 
first impression today. A key alliance 
could result. A financial mistake 
must be rectified without delay. Love 
blooms when you least expect it. 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): A 
financial delay is bothersome. yet 
allo\\·s you time to obtain shrewd ad­
,·ice. Networking gives you an im­
ponant advantage over a competitor. 
45 Breath mint 51 Queens team brand 52 Follow the code 47 Sloppy landing 53--Put fabric sound softener 


48 Suffix with 54 Wrestler's goal stock 55 Have a go at 

Wanted: Reporters, 
so France's -­56 Gen. Arnold of de Glenans W.W.IIfame 

photographers 
Answers to any three clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone: 
, <!00-12n-5•JSG (7:Jc p~?' m1nutc) 

and editors. 
Annual S:Jbscnptlcns are ava:itlblc for tn·2 
best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 

Join The Observer staff. 
-
~· 
-
.. 

O~f ~l(jNJ 
WlfflfBALL 
TOUI!~A~f~T 
fATURDAY, MARCH 22 

-~-------~-------­

SPORTS 
page 24 Tuesday, March 18, 1997 
• WOMEN'S BASKETBAll 
ND makes Texas see green 
By JOE CAVATO 
Assistant Sports Ediror 
When your squad is in the Big Dance, the time has come for your prime-time players to pave the way in the hectic traf­fic on the road to the Final Four. 
That is exactly what hap­pened last night in Austin, Texas as the Notre Dame women's basketball team upset the No. 3 seed and host 
-
• MEN'S BASKETBALL 

Home court offers golden opportunity for Irish 

• iR!SH iNSIGHT 
Student loyalty to be tested against TCU 
A funny thing happened on the way home from spring brnak. Upon returning from the land of ganja (.Jamaiea as it is otherwise known). a first glance at the .Joyce Center .--------, 
bullntin board on Junip<)r had nw wondnring if people were also tripping around South Bend. 
Not becausn tho designers must have bnnn high when they decided to model the sign after the one adorning St. Joe's across the strent. 
But because of what the sign said. Notro Dame vs. TCU in the second round of the NIT. 
NOT. 
NIT. 
No way. 
Way. 


The real shock hnre may not be so much that the National Invitation Tournament mailed the Irish an invitation. It is the fact that Notre Dame is still basking in a post-season glow after students have returned to campus with their natural brown glow. 
No undergraduate at this university has ever been offered the opportunity to be mad in 
see FANS I page 22 

--
ers in school history, Beth Morgan and Katryna Gaither, led the way as thny each poured in 29 points. 
Also stepping up in tho spot­light was senior forward Hosanne Bohman who was per­feet from the lield on her way to 16 points and live rebounds. 
"It was awesome," senior point guard .Jeanninn Augustin said. "Beating Texas in front of their fans was great. We kept our composure. Katryna and Beth had great games." 
Tlw Irish altered a trick out of Lou Holtz's big-game bag as they came out with green fin­gernail polish, hoping to snag some of that luck of tho Irish. It paid off as the win puslws their mark to 29-6 on tho year. 
More importantly it extends their season and gives them a datn with sncond-sended and sevonth-rankPd Alabama in the East Hegionals this Saturday. 
Gaither scored 21 of hnr points in the first half as thn hosts had no one who could stop her in the paint. The Irish wPnt into tho locker room with a 44-42 lead. 
Longhorn Danielln Viglionn countered Gaither's play with her outstanding shooting as she lead her team with 19 points on (i of 13 shooting including 5 of 9 from behind the arc. 
Despite the fact that Texas was the favorite and had the 
see UPSET I page 21 


Longhorns in an 86-83 thriller. 
St. Patrick's Day is truly a day for the Irish. But for the Notre Dame women's basketball game, March 17, 1997 is now an historic day. Yesterday's win combined with their first round 93-62 drubbing of Memphis marks the farthest the women's team ever has gone in the NCAA Tournament. 
Just like they have donn all season long, Irish seniors and the first two 2,000 point scor­

a;

Softball vs. Indiana •Men's Tennis rolls over break
vs. Texas Christian 
s 
March 25, 2 p.m. 
Tonight 
~ 
see page 19
ATA 
vs. Alabama 
Fencing 

• 10 fencers qualify for NCAAs 
~ 

at NCAA Tournament 
March 20-23 
see page 18

March 22 
at NCAA Championships
• ~ 

