
~ 


KRT photos/Bernie Cox Jr. 
By DAVID FREDDOSO eliminating the current system top teams, according to Iris Assistant News Editor of ranking the top 32 teams Outlaw, director of the Office of 
might ease the tensions that Multicultural Student Affairs, 
In order to alleviate the racial erupt as games get more who was among the CCC repre­tensions which often surface intense. sentatives present at the meet­after the early rounds of "They were very helpful," ing. She supported elimination Bookstore Basketball, the Bookstore Basketball head com­of the rankings, reasoning that Campus Climate Council pro­missioner Brendan Poe said. He they tend to attract attention to posed four major changes to the praised the CCC for "recognizing the games in which arguments tournament in a meeting last that racial problems do exist on are most likely to erupt. Thursday. campus and trying to ease the 
The CCC recommended that tensions involved in Bookstore the Bookstore commission Basketball." increase security, use profes­The commission is likely to sional officials and create a implement the first three sug­more diverse governing com­gestions in this spring's tourna­mission. It also suggested that ment, but it will still seed the 
By KRISTI KUTSCH tions and the total mass of the visible News Writer matter in the galaxy. Now, with the research of Bennett 
New research conducted by David and his colleagues, it has been discov­Bennett, assistant professor of ered that MACI-!Os, a theoretical form physics at Notre Dame, shows that of dark matter, probably do exist. MACHOs (Massive Compact Halo MACHOs can take a variety of Objects) comprise half of the dark forms, Bennett said. matter of the Milky Way Galaxy. "They can be low-mass stars that 
Benn·eu, in collaboration with a don't have enough mass to generate team of 17 other researchers, formu­internal heat," he explained. "These lated the theory of the existence of stars are known as brown dwarfs." MACHOs in the Milky Way Galaxy. Or they can take the form of white Their research was published in The dwarfs. Astrophysical Journal in an article "[White dwarfs] have finished their titled, "The MACHO Project: Large life. They have burned out all of their Megellanic Cloud Microlensing Result nuclear fuel," he said. From the First Two Years and the "Other MACHO candidates are Nature of the Galactic Dark Halo." It called WIMPs (Weakly Interacting was also featured on PBS's "Stephen Massive Particles)," Bennett asserted. Hawking's Universe" on Nov. 3. "Or they can be dark holes." 
The composition of the gravitational The research technique employed mass of the Milky Way galaxy has by the team of scientists is known as posed problems for astronomers for microlensing. The MACHO collabora­years. In the past two decades, the tion uses the telescopes at the Mount majority of the scientific community Stromlo and Siding Springs has accepted the existence of dark Observatories in Australia. 
P
resident Clinton pauses for a moment of silent prayer after placing a wreath at the Tomb of matter, an invisible source of mass "Microlensing entails the lensing of the Unknowns during Veterans Day ceremonies at Arlington National Cemetery yesterday. which would account for the discrep­See story on Veterans' Day at NO, page 3 
ancy between observed mass calcula-see MACHOS I page 4 

Students provide aid at legal clinic 

Campus Climate Council e Creation of more diverse Bookstore Commission 
• NEWS ANAlYSIS 
ND prof criticizes Oregon law 

By DAVID FRED DOSO life as one's own," he said. Assistant News Editor "Our lives do not belong to 
us." 
Last Tuesday, when Oregon Solomon maintained that voters rejected a resolution to this position is based not only repeal the Death with Dignity. on religious beliefs, but also Act of 1994, assisted suicide on philosophy. The choice of became legal in the state of death, he said, is not compa­Oregon. rable to other choices that 
As a result, Oregon is now people make throughout their the only political entity in the lives, which might be consid­world which permits physi­ered to be "their own" choic­cian-assisted suicide as a fully es. legal option for terminally-ill "Our own death is not some­patients who desire it and are thing else that happens to us," of sound mind. Australia's he said. "Death is not an event Northern Territories had [in life]. It is the end of life." passed a similar statute allow­Solomon also claimed that ing assisted suicide but the act is particularly inappro­recently repealed it. priate in a day and age in 
David Solomon, professor of which money and efficiency ethics in Notre Dame's philos­hold so much importance in ophy department, said there is society. Economic motives, he a serious moral dilemma said, are likely to drive the involved in legalizing assisted weakest of society to be heavi­suicide. ly pressured or even forced 
"It's hard to imagine a into assisted suicide. worse time to legalize physi­"This is a bad time because cian-assisted suicide," he said, of the economic pressure to citing ethical reasons for his save money," he said. "The stance against the Death with quickest way to save money Dignity Act. 
"It's wrong to think of one's see SUICIDE I page 8 
By ARIANN BUTLER 
News Writer 
Notre Dame senior govern­ment major Amy Arentowicz begins every Tuesday morning helping people. 
She volunteers as an intake worker at Legal Services, a pri­vate, non-profit corporation which provides free legal repre­sentation to low-income individ­uals in northern Indiana. 
"Legal Services is a place you volunteer where you know right away you're helping people," Arcntowicz said. 
As an intake worker, Arentowicz takes statistical and financial information from clients who telephone or come to the office for legal assistance. 
After this initial information is taken. Arentowicz obtains infor­mation about each client's legal problem. She then writes a detailed description to be reviewed by the attorneys. 
Finally, the attorneys deter­mine if the case has merit and if it necessitatns their intervention. 
Most of the initial and crucial work for cases is completed by volunteer intake workers. Pam Claeys, director of volunteer pro­grams, expressed the impor­tance of student volunteers to Legal Services. 
"We are totally dependent on volunteers to do our intake work," she said. 
Presently, Legal Services has 48 volunteers, but according to Claeys, that is still not enough. 
The demand for legal aid is on the rise, she explained, but the resources to provide that aid are dwindling. 
"We receive 20 to 30 new requests a day. We'll receive 4,000 applications this year, and we only have three staff attor­neys," Claeys said. 
"We place a lot of responsibili­ty on volunteers," she added. 
Volunteers must listen to the client's statements and condense the legal problem into a narra­tive. Such tasks require good lis­tening and recording skills in 
see VOLUNTEER I page 4 
Wednesday, November 12, 1997 • Vol. XXXI No. 52 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Council suggests changes for Bookstore Basketball 

GREENCASTLE, Ind.  sophomore, junior and senior active  
Kappa Kappa Gamma sorority mem­ members of the sorority were present  
bers are facing possible charges from  when the alleged hazing took place.  
the DePauw University, their national  The Kappa national organization  
organization and a local county prose­ released a statement yesterday after­ 
cutor's office for an alleged hazing  noon and is working with the  
incident last Thursday.  University to investigate the charges.  
DePauw Police said they learned in  "We will work directly with the chap­ 
interviews this weekend that sorority  ter and the University to take the steps  
members allegedly served three or  that are necessary," said Marilyn  
four pledges hard liquor on Thursday  ings.  Bullock, sorority vice president of  
night and branded them on the hip  According to information gathered  Kappa national. "Kappa does not  
with cigarettes.  by DePauw Police and the DePauw  approve of any type of hazing. To  
"The report that we got was that  University student newspaper, Kappa  inflict injury to another person is  
there were cigarette brandings that  members have alleged that at least 12  appalling."  
took place," said director of DePauw  women, including four pledges, were  Dean of Students Alan Hill first  
Police Mark Freeman. He said all of his  present between 10 p.m. and 11 p.m.  learned of the incident after his secre­ 
interviews confirmed that certain  Thursday when the incident occurred.  tary Jean Osburn received an anony­ 
University rules were broken. "There's  The pledges were scheduled to be  mous phone call from a Kappa pledge  
no dispute on the fact that alcohol was  initiated into the active chapter Friday  Friday. He said the caller alleged haz­ 
involved."  night, but the University suspended  ing, but did not detail what happened.  
Friday, the University temporarily  chapter activities before that could  Later the parent of a pledge called  
suspended DePauw's Iota Chapter  happen. DePauw Police said yesterday  Student Affairs and filed a formal com­ 
from all activities except house meet- that based on interviews, it seems that  plaint.  

page 2 
• INSIDE COLUMN 
It's lunch; Do 
you know where 
your kids are? 
The controversy sur­
rounding the case of 
Louise Woodward, the 19­
year-old au pair whose 
murder conviction was 
reduced Monday to invol­
untary manslaughter in 
the death of an 8-month­
old boy. raises some 
interesting questions 
that go beyond the 
courtroom. 
Among those questions is how working par­
ents should provide care for their children 
during the work week. 
This issue is nothing new; after all, mothers 
have been entering the workforce in increas­
ing numbers since the late 1960s and early 
1970s. But as the Woodward trial points out, 
the perfect solution is still elusive. 
The 8-month-old boy's parents, Sunil and 
Deborah Eappen, have faced criticism from 
those who say they never should have left 
such a young child in the hands of an inexpe­
rienced 19-year-old. But the infant and his 2­
year-old brother were in far better circum­
stances than many American children: They 
were cared for in their own home by some­
one hand-picked by the parents and certified 
by an au pair agency. 
Obviously, the most qualified people to care 
for young children are usually their parents. 
But as our society has changed, that has 
become less and less feasible. It is now 
almost a requirement that both husband and 
wife work if they want to give their children 
the same standard of living that they them­
selves enjoyed growing up. Consider this: If 
you are planning to send your children to 
Notre Dame 20 years from now and tuition 
continues to increase at its current rate per 
annum, the yearly bill will be over $60,000. 
Over $240,000 for a college degree. And if 
you have two or three kids ... 
Suffice it to say that one paycheck is not 
going to do. For a middle class family such as 
the Eappens, both parents have to work. In 
fact, the statistics show that two-thirds of 
parents with children under age 6 work out­
side the home. 
So what is to be done with the children? 
One would like to think that the death of the 
Eappens' 8-month-old boy is nothing more 
than a chance occurrence, one incident out of 
the millions of times that nannies handle chil­
dren every day. That's probably right, and 
child-care services seem destined to improve. 
As more and more parents leave their chil­
dren at home while they're at the office, the 
number of child-care agencies will no doubt 
rise, and the workings of economic competi­
tion will improve the quality of care that can 
be found. 
Unfortunately, some concern rests in 
whether people will be willing and able to 
pay for good child care. The Eappens, who 
are both doctors. were paying Woodward 
only $135 per week to care for their children; 
imagine what people of lesser means, such as 
single mothers or even graduate students, 
can afford. 
Despite all the divisions in American poli­
tics, one thing on which conservatives and 
liberals alike agree is that children deserve 
equal opportunities to develop so that they 
can work toward the living that they desire. 
Quality child care is the first step. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 

• TOOAY's STAFF 
News Accent 
Dave Freddoso Rachel Torres Anne Marie Mattingly Nora Meany Anne Hosinski Production 
Sports Dave F reddoso Brian Kessler Anne Marie Mattingly Viewpoint Tara Grieshop 
Mary Margaret Nussbaum 
Brian Kessler Lab Tech
Graphics Pete Cilella 
Brandon Candura 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 

--~~--------~------------­
The Observer • INSIDE Wednesday, November 12, 1997 
utside the Dome 
Compiled from U-Wire reports 
Hazing allegation leads to sanctions against DePauw sorority 
• UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA, BERKELEY • UNIVERSITY OF KENTUCKY 
Visiting scholar commits suicide Suspect in professor's slaying arrested 
BERKELEY, Calif. LEXINGTON, Ky. 
A UC Berkeley visiting scholar from Italy was found Questions surrounding the mysterious death of UK hanging Sunday morning in her room. The student, whose architecture professor Pete Pinney may be closer to being body was found by staff members and UC Police answered. A man was arrested Nov. 5, and charged by the Department officers, had apparently committed suicide Lexington Police with unlawful use of a credit device. only several days after moving to the campus. The "There is a chance it came from Pinney," said Capt. John woman, Sandra Cavichioli, was a 38-year-old Italian visit­Potts, a Lexington police spokesman. He would not say if ing scholar and a communications major. Cavichioli had the credit device was in Pinney's name, but he did confirm been known to have psychiatric problems, according to it was related to Pinney. "You can have someone's credit Lurie, and was seeing a therapist. "I saw her only once," card, but that doesn't mean that you've committed homi­said Toby Sterling, a graduate student in journalism who cide," he said. Potts would not reveal the man's name, but lived right across from the woman's room. "She looked said he is still in custody. Although police would not con­angry and in a hurry." According to UC police Capt. Bill firm last night that there is a connection to the case, Cooper, UC professor Seymour Chatman sponsored District Court records show only one fraudulent use of a Cavichioli's visit to the U.S. She had been in the country credit card arrest made on Nov. 5. Paul Barnett, of for only a few weeks. Residence staff were prompted to Lexington, was arrested for attempting 12 withdrawals go to Cavichioli's room when her mother called to say that with a credit card from an ATM machine. Barnett is being she had not had any news from her daughter for a while held in the Fayette County Detention Center on $10.000 and was concerned for Cavichioli's safety, Lurie said. bond until his full arraignment tomorrow. When asked if Cavichioli's parents are expected to arrive in Berkeley the man was somehow involved with the homicide, Potts today to claim the body. said, "I don't know. Until we do know, we can't say." 
• UNIVERSITY OF NEBRASKA • UNIVERSITY Of PENNSYLVANIA 
Cleanup needs money, manpower Officer rejects charges of brutality 
LINCOLN, Neb. PHILADELPHIA, Pa. 
The University of Nebraska expects to receive federal In the latest development in an ongoing controversy, a funding to help pay campus cleanup costs -including hun­University of Pennsylvania Police officer disputed allega­dreds of employee overtime hours -resulting from the dev­tions that unprovoked officers beat a freshman uncon­astating late October blizzard, an official said Monday. Jay scious after a string of bloody assaults two weeks ago Schluckebier, interim director Landscape Services, said his that sent the student, four University Police officers and office's budget cannot absorb the cost of overtime, wood the alleged assailant to the hospital. Freshman Bill chippers, chain saws and as many as 2,000 replacement Sofield was arrested in the Phi Gamma Delta fraternity trees. "''m told we'll have disaster relief funds for this," house Oct. 30, after police officers allegedly kicked and Schluckebier said. "That's what I'm counting on." Federal punched him while he remained passive, according to Emergency Management Agency spokesman Phil Kirk said statements from several FIJI brothers. But a University the agency received a letter from the university saying it Police officer who was inside the house called the FIJI would submit applications for disaster relief funding. The brothers' accounts "greatly exaggerated" and said university received FEMA funds in 1993 after submitting an Sofield pushed the Philadelphia Police officer who was application citing damages that occurred on campus during one of the first to try to arrest him for disorderly con­
a record wind storm. 
• SOUTH BEND WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forecast AccuWeather'" forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 
. . ~·· i 

H L 
Wedn~sday~ ... 38 25 
~ ~~~W..·:·.:· .:.:.::;!J 
Thursday ~ :3&r 27
ce:::1 h{+·•··--.••..• ,, 
Friday > +.;::-.;::-35 20 Satur~ay ~· .. 34 20 Sund~y ,.('~ :!::·32 19 
\.'< j.j'". ··, ..,/•·'\.,) .· 
4,~,~8M8 (f ~ u 
Showers T-storms Rain Flurries Snow Ice Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy Via Associated Press GraphicsNet 
duct. 
• NATIONAL WEATHER 
The AccuWeather® forecast for noon, Wednesday, Nov. 12. 
Lines separate high temperature zones for the day. 
FRONTS: 
~ ..A.JIIL ............... 
COLD WARM STATIONARY 
Cl 1997 AccuWeather, Inc. 
Pressure 
H L B ISS! [TI] 
HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T·STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY V~<~ A.ssoaared Pl'flss 
Aspen  28  15  Houston  64  58  Shreveport  55  44  
Cheyenne  31  16  Mobile  66  47  Sioux Falls  26  15  
Cincinnati  41  28  Palm Springs 70  60  Tucson  67  49  
Flagstaff  51  30  Phoenix  71  54  Wilkes Barre  45  25  
Helena  33  11  Rapid City  31  17  Yuma  73  54  


-----~------~---­
Wednesday, November 12, 1997 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Celebrating Veterans' Day 

ROTC units pay homage to fallen soldiers 
By LOUBEL CRUZ News Wrirer 
Veterans' Day was celebrated throughout the nation yesterday, and Notre Dame was no excep­tion. 
General Eugene Habiger, com­mander-in-chief of the United States Strategic Command, spoke to Notre Dame's Army, Navy and Air Force ROTC units at their annual Joint Veterans' Day Retreat Ceremony honoring members of the armed forces. 
"It is a very important day because it commemorates a grand symbol of greatness," said Habiger. 
At 11 a.m. on Nov. 11, 1918, Veterans' Day came about to celebrate the end of World War 
I. 
Originally, the holiday was called Armistice Day. 
"World War I was a brutal war," said Habiger. "With new weapons being developed 10 million died. A whole generation of men were wiped out in the United Kingdom." 
In 1954, Congress changed the name of the holiday from Armistice Day to Veterans' Day to include the men that served in all wars. 
"On this day we recognize vet­erans: veterans who have given their life, veterans who became wounded and veterans who fought with dignity," he said. 
But Habiger believed that the families and friends of all veter­ans should be acknowledged on this day. 
"Family support of veterans is really what makes this country so great," he said. 
Habiger praised the Notre 
The Observer/Brandon Candura Eugene Habiger told Notre Dame's ROTC units that they are "one of the top corps in the country" during the celebration of Veterans' Day. 
Dame ROTC saying they are "one of the top corps in the country." 
He spoke to the assembled units about the military profes­sion and the expectations it holds. It is very special because it is held to a higher standard and employs. an unlimited liabil­ity clause, he said. 
"[The military] is the only pro­fession where you raise your right hand and take a solemn oath to protect our nation against any enemies, foreign or domestic," he continued. 
Habiger reminded the units that the reason there are armed services is that people who wear any military uniform in the United States protect the American people and their prop­erty. The oath that they take is to fight and to be willing to give tl).eir lives for the people. 
"As you go down this path, remember that you are part of the finest military the world has ever seen," said Habiger. 
"Keep America the greatest country on the earth." 
Habiger .enlisted in the Army in 1959 and served in the infantry. He earned the rank of 2nd Lt. after graduating with distinguished honors from Officers' Training School in 1963 and ascended through the ranks to become commander of the 325th Bombardment Squadron. 
Habiger held several positions in the Pentagon, including chief of the Strategic Offensive Forces division and executive officer for the Air Force chief of staff. He left the Pentagon to assume command of several bombard­ment wings and later became the inspector general of the Strategic Air Command. 
When he returned to the Pentagon, Habiger was director in the Office of the Deputy Chief of Staff. He also served as chair­man of the Program Review Committee and the Air Force 
board. 
The William and Katherine Devers Program in Dante Studies in conjunction with the Medieval Institute presents: 
Hell and PtJ~tory'' 



ND founds the new 'Erasmus Institute' 
By PATRICK MCGOVERN 
News Writer 
In an effort to examine the role Catholic traditions can play in contemporary thought and scholarship, Notre Dame has recently established the Erasmus Institute. 
The institute, which is named after Desiderius Erasmus, a 16th century Catholic scholar, will not nec­essarily be concerned with the study of Catholic theolo­gy or dogma. 
James Turner, director of the institute, stated that those involved will be concerned with "reconnecting Catholic intellectual traditions with the mainstream of American academic research." 
M. Cathleen Kaveny, associate professor of law, believes that exploring examples of Catholic thought can enrich contemporary scholarship. 
"The Catholic tradition of thought is not a narrowly theological, sacramental or moral belief that you have to hold," Kaveny said. "Catholicism offers a vision of the way life is -of culture, of community, of the rela­tionship between human beings to one another. It is a rich tradition." 
The institute, with an initial fund of $1.5 million, will sponsor various projects including a publishing pro­gram, conferences at colleges and universi­ties across the country 
'CATHOUCISM OFFERS A
and summer seminars 
for graduate students. VIEW OF THE WAY UFE The Erasmus Institute IS -OF CULTURE, OF COM­will also provideresearch fellowships to MUNITY, OF THE RELATION-
faculty members and SHIP BETWEEN HUMAN graduate students. BEINGS TO ONE ANOTHER. IT 
The members of the institute will strive to IS A RICH TRADITION.' bring the resources of Catholic thought that have been unutilized to M. CATHLEEN KAVENEY the forefront. 
"Those resources have not been as prominent as they deserve to be. I think what the Erasmus Institute wants to do is encourage people in a broad array of disciplines to [recognize that] ... history always has resources for the present. Let's look and see what the Catholic tradition has to give," Kaveny said. 
The Erasmus Institute will initially be under the con­trol of a local board of nine Notre Dame faculty mem­bers. Faculty members involved represent a variety of disciplines including science, business, law and history. 
PRESENTS 
PROF. DENNIS SNOW 
Department of Mathematics 

~ymmetries ()f t;e()metric 
()bjects and their IJelative ~izes 
Thursday DeBartolo Hall Nouember 13 Room 126 8:00P.M. 
page4 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, November 12, 1997 
MACHOS 
continued from page 1 
objects in the galaxy," Bennett said. "Through the lensing process, objects are distorted, so structural differences cannot be observed." 
The distortion is detected by changes in the brightness of stars from other galaxies, Bennett said. 
"We look for the effect of a MACHO passing in front of a star. If it passes directly in front, it distorts the gravitation­al field, and the star appears brighter," he explained. 
The researchers concentrate their efforts on stars in the Large Megellanic Cloud, a satellite galaxy of the Milky Way that can only be seen from the Earth's southern hemi­sphere. 
Bennett also described the structure of the galaxy and the need to use the Large Megellanic Cloud instead of the Milky Way for observation. 
Amicus 
continued from page 1 
taken in order to end life. 
Notre Dame professor David Solomon and other opponents of assisted suicide have been known to make a distinction between actions which cause death, such as euthanasia or the prescription of a lethal dosage of medicine, and omis­sions which may cause death, such as the removal of life support. 
The philosophers' brief, however, insists that this dis­tinction is drawn incorrectly. 
"[The distinction] is not between acts and omissions, 
"The galaxy is like a disc with a galactic bulge in the middle." he said. 
"When observing dark matter from outside the Milky Way, it appears that the dark matter goes through the halo and not the disc. When observing from within the Milky Way, the dark matter goes through the disc and the bulge," he explained. 
Bennett said that most of the microlensing done on the galactic bulge reveals ordinary stars, where microlensing from the halo is attributed to MACHOs. 
Bennett confessed that "there is still some confusion about the possible interpretation of the results." 
"The brightness may be caused by a smaller galaxy passing in front of the Large Megellanic Cloud instead of a MACHO," he said. 
Bennett thinks that the research is sound, and says that he will teach the theory in his physics classes. 
The MACHO research will continue until the year 2000. 
but between acts or omissions which are designed to cause death and those that are not." 
Another argument in the brief has as its premise the autonomy of the human per­son. 
The brief states that it is in the interest of the states to stop those who are incapable of making such a decision from choosing assisted suicide. 
However, it went on, in prin­ciple "every individual has the right to make the most inti­mate and personal choices central to personal dignity and autonomy. That right encom­passes the right to exercise some control over the time and manner of one's death." 
will be beefed up at Bookstore implement the CCC's suggestion games. Students will probably to encourage a more ethnically
Bookstore 
work crowd control in the earli­diverse Bookstore commission, er rounds while Notre Dame Poe stated. This would not mean
continued from page 1 
Security/Police will work the any seeking out of minority later games. commissioners.
sport," he said. "It's offered for "We know that we can't solve "The only thing we plan to dothe fans as well as the players." 
all the problems," Poe is increase advertising for com­
He went on to say that 
explained, "but we realized that missioner positions," he said,Bookstore Basketball at Notre we can alleviate some problems "so we have a large number of
Dame has a strong tradition, 
before they start." people applying for the position,and that the elimination of seed­Poe said that professional ref­and we can have a more diverseing "would definitely take away erees who work at high school commission."
part of that, especially from the events will be called in to offici­Outlaw said that the changesspectator's aspect." 
ate in the later rounds, perhaps were important for the reputa­Poe stressed that this issue did as early as the round where 128 tion of Bookstore Basketball. 
not dominate the discussion, teams remain. "After that positive attentionand he added that the rest of "We felt that the students last year," said Outlaw, refer­
the CCC's recommendations 
serving as refs may not feel ring to Sports Illustrated's cov­seem likely to be of great help in empowered to enforce the rules erage of the event, "we don'treducing or eliminating racial properly on their peers," Outlaw want [the racial tension] to
incidents during Bookstore 
said. explode so that we get negativegames. 
The commission plans to coverage this year." 
This spring, Poe said, security 
Volunteer 
continued from page 1 
order to aid an attorney in determining the priority and validity of a case. 
"People call with a problem, and you have a direct impact by the information you take and the way you present it. You are responsible for being the ears and client for the attorneys," said Sue Christie, a senior English and communications major at Notre Dame. 
"It is a lot of responsibility but a great experi­ence," she said. 
Jim Freeman, a senior economics and Spanish major, agreed with Christie. 
"Volunteering here gives you the benefit of work­ing on interviewing techniques and how to deal with a lot of different people." 
Legal Services also offers a volunteer the oppor­tunity to serve the community, to build references for a successful performance and to receive ongo­ing training and supervision and membership at Teacher's Credit Union. 
According to Christie, the "definite exposure to the community and the ability to see what goes on outside of campus" are additional benefits of volun­teering at Legal Services. 
Freeman agreed and said his experience volun­teering at Legal Services has made him realize that Notre Dame is not the real world. 
"You don't see homeless people hanging around outside of LaFortune," he said. Every case at Legal Services has an impact on the volunteers. 
"[ especially am affected when clients around my age call in about a divorce or other legal problem," Arentowicz said. "It puts my own problems into perspective." 
Is your opinion not being represented in The Observer? 
(Viewpoint.! @nd.edu 
I 
It's your fault. 



Wednesday, November 12, 1997 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
• NATIONAl NEWS BRIEFS 
Woman's admission on talk show leads to jail term 
GENEVA, New York 
A woman's tale on "The Jerry Springer Show" about a relationship with a 16-year­old boy has landed her in jail, charged with rape. Dawn Marie Eaves, 24, admitted on the show last month having "a relationship" with the Geneva boy, who is the younger brother of a man who fathered one of Eaves' three children. She appeared on the show with the teen-ager and Michael Griffith, who was living with Eaves at the time. On the show, Griffith confronted Eaves about her relationship with the 16-year-old. The pair had an argument, which led to a fistfight between Griffith and various guests. The show drew the attention of police, who charged Eaves after they said she and the boy admitted having sex early last Thursday at her home and acknowledged sleeping with each other since July. 
Death row inmate released 
TYLER, Texas 
Wearing a suit and carrying his possessions in three bags, former death row inmate Kerry Max Cook used his first moments of freedom in two decades Tuesday to hug his crying mother and thank his lawyer. Cook, on death row for the murder of a secretary, was freed on $100,000 bond to await a fourth trial. "It's an out-of-body experience. It really is," Cook said of his release. His mother. Evelyn Cook, was equally elated. ''I'm walking on cloud nine. You don't have any idea," she said. "Now is the greatest time since he's been born." Cook was con­victed of capital murder and sentenced to death in 1978. 
Bacteria found in Amtrak drinking water hose 
MIAMI, Fla. 
Potentially deadly E. coli bacteria was found in hoses used to fill water tanks on Amtrak trains after routine tests sound bac­teria in train drinking water. No illnesses were reported as a result of the bacteria. Although E. coli bacteria was found in hoses at Amtrak's Miami maintenance facility, a less harmful bacteria may have infected the trains' drinking water. "Coliform (bacteria) covers a broad spectrum," Amtrak spokesman Cliff Black said Tuesday. "There was some bacteria in the cars, but if it was 
E. coli, I'm not sure." Water transfer hoses used at Amtrak's Miami maintenance facility were replaced over the weekend and water tanks on 250 rail cars were flushed and dis­infected. Amtrak said it did not know how the drinking water in 17 cars became taint­ed, but that it was working with the Environmental Protection Agency to pinpoint the source. 


AFP Pholo A Somali village along the banks of the Juba river lies submerged in flood waters. The waters have risen over the last week due to heavy torrential rains throughout East Africa. 
led peacekeepers in 1995 diers. nature of this relief-aid 
AssoCIATED PRESS -are appealing for aid. The image of Somalis operation has been planned 
But bitterness left over dragging the body of a dead carefully to prevent a 
BARDERA, Somalia from that American repeat of earlier mistakes, 
Famine in this Horn of disastrous soldier she said. Africa nation focused world mission has through the "We're not getting in
'THE GOVERNMENTS
attention on Somalia seven govern­streets of truckloads of food, which years ago, causing ments and FEAR THERE MAY BE Mogadishu are such an easy target, Americans and others to relief agen-A RETURN TO THE CHAOS c a u s e d but we're using helicopters, rally relief teams and send cies reluc-widespread which are hard to hijack, out aircraft to deliver food tant to OF 1992.' fury. and only small amounts of to the southern Juba Valley. m o u n t M o r e food are being transported 
Today, a new call for help another in them," she said. 
WENDY DRISCOLL than 1OO
is receiving slow and sparse large-scale peacekeep­Also, non-governmental response. effort. CARE INTERNATIONAL ers died organizations in Somalia 
Heavy rains have beaten "The gov­and more have been working with down on the valley for ernments fear there may be than $1.66 billion was local Somalis at the grass­three weeks, causing the return to chaos of 1992. It's spent before the United roots level, making for bet­Juba River to pour over its been proven that large Nations finally pulled out ter relations and involve­banks. At least 130 people amounts of aid attract loot­the last of its troops in ment in the distribution of have drowned and as many ers," said Wendy Driscoll, a 1995. food. as 300,000 Somalis are spokeswoman for CARE Driscoll said Tuesday she "This will be a very con­without homes or food. International. believes the aid will eventu­trolled intervention," she 
The faction leaders who The anarchy of Somalia ally come. said. rule this nation of 7 million made a fiasco of the two­The flooding is not as The Red Cross delivered in the absence of a central year relief mission. U.S. serious a problem as the the first planeload of shel­government -the same forces withdrew in 1994 1992 famine, requiring a ter material to Bardera on ones who forced out U.S.-having lost 42 of their sol-smaller aid effort, and the Tuesday. 
U.S. bishops discuss meatless Fridays 
violence, drugs and other "attacks Catholic beliefs have become homog­
AssoctATED PRESS on human life and human dignity." enized into American culture, he 
"The question now is, 'Did we lose said. 
WASHINGTON the whole notion of Friday being a He says Catholics need to publicly 
Aiming to improve Catholic unity penitential day?'" Law said. "Our witness that ''I'm a Catholic. I am for and penitence, the nation's bishops pastoral experience is that people life and I affirm the value of life as are considering a return to meatless have tended to lose sight of it since taught by the church." Fridays, a practice that hasn't been the obligation of abstinence on Archbishop Francis E. George of mandatory since the 1960s, except Friday was removed." Chicago says he's in favor of meat­during Lent. And there is another question: Is less Fridays because it would help 
Members of the National giving up meat a sufficient sign of Catholics identify with Christ's suf­Conference of Catholic Bishops Pro­penitence? fering and death Life Committee, where the proposal "Fish is very good -I have to say But he admits he doesn't always originated, say reinstating meatless that coming from Boston," says Law, abstain today. Fridays would give Catholics a way who abstains from meat in his home "If there's fish around, I'll try to to publicly display their penitence on on Fridays. eat it," George says. Fridays -the day the Bible says The 300-member bishops confer­Monsignor Lorenzo Albacete of Jesus suffered and died on the cross. ence ends its national meeting here New York pointed to his portly shape 
"Maybe we need to return to that, Thursday. and said he thought it would be but more broadly, we're studying the Cardinal Adam Maida of Detroit healthy for him to eat more fish, very nature of Friday as a peniten­says that if the proposal is endorsed, which is generally considered more tial day and how do we better call Catholics might not turn to fish. healthful than some other meats. ourselves to observe it," says "I know people who on their fast But Albacete doesn't want to see Cardinal Bernard Law of Boston, days do bread and water," Maida people scorned if they don't embrace chairman of the pro-life committee. says. "When I was a child, our staple the practice. 
The proposal also is intend~ to be on Fridays was potato soup and "My concern is that it not be pre­a way for the nation's 61 million potato pancakes." sented as, 'If you eat meat on Friday Catholics to express themselves But he says the proposal is not just you'll burn in hell.' I think that against abortion, euthanasia, war about not eating meat on Fridays. would be an abysmal mistake." 
Wednesday, November 12, 1997
page 6 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT 

11l1lmC?~C[)GJ~~ [m®W®[I}Lb®C? ~~~ ~@@7] 
Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore, 
Open 
9 a.m. to 7 p.m 
Varsity Shop 
Open 
9 a.m. to 5 p.m. 
Get ~our Christmcts 

• GRADUATE STUDENT UNION • PAKISTAN 
GSU addresses quality of life Four Americans 
By MATTHEW LOUGHRAN kind of statistics will be useful School had been very support­Associate News Editor to have in these types of dis­ive of their efforts but that cussions." they have problems finding 
killed in Pakistan
The Quality of Life The questionnaire, which funding. She indicated that 
Committee of the Graduate Pfeil hopes to have completed her committee plans on Student Union has decided to by Dec. 1, asks how many reporting the results of the circulate a questionnaire family members a graduate survey to the Graduate about graduate student health student has, if that family is Student Council. The council care this month. on any sort of public assis­will decide what it wants to do 
"This is the main focus of tance program. and whether with the numbers then. our committee this year," said or not they live on campus. "At the Graduate Student Margaret Pfeil, theology repre­"Right now, a graduate stu­Council meeting, we asked the sentative to the Graduate dent with a $10,000 stipend representatives to go back to Student Council and Quality of can spend up to $4,000 for their constituents and ask Life Committee chairwoman. health care for their familios," them for this information," "We have been in conversation Pfeil said. Pfeil added. with the health center and the "That's why we have gradu­"Some of them will use e­graduate school and the one ate students on welfare. It is mail or a copy of the example constant refrain that we have simply not possible sometimes that we included in the agenda heard is that 'We do not have to spend 40 percent of your packet for the meeting. But, the numbers on how many income on health care and still either way, we are hoping that children graduate students have money for everything they will disseminate the have or how many of them are else a student might need." information to their con­on public assistance.· These She added that the Graduate stituents." 
Celebrate a friend's birthday with a special Observer ad! 

Chicago: City of Hope 
January 6th-11th, 1998 
The Seminar 
•
Five day seminar in the city of Chicago 

•
Focuses on the positive programs being implemente to aid underresourced neighborhoods 

•
Provides an opportunity for service in various educational arenas 

•
Emphasizes group reflections and prayer 

•
Earn one credit hour 


For additional information please contact Jennifer Weigel 243-2656 Christine Haley 243-8262 
Pull up a couch. See the tomato? Then you're not only sane. but hungry as well. Clike Pavlov's dog when he heard the bell.) Good thing Fazoli's is nearby. 
Head on over for a Sampler Platter and unlimited free breadsticks when you dine in. You'd be crazy to pass it up. 

52770 US Route 33N,277-4008, South Bend 
The Associated Press 
KARACHI, Pakistan 
Four U.S. businessmen and a Pakistani were killed when gunmen in a car forced their vehicle off a road early Wednesday in Karachi and rid­dled the victims with bullets, police said. 
Details of the shooting were sketchy but authorities said the Americans were auditors who worked for a Houston-based oil company, Union Texas Petroleum. While the company and U.S. Embassy declined to release names or identities of the victims pending notification of next of kin, the company said it was evacuating all 30 of its foreign personnel immedi­ately. 
Police in the violence­wracked southern port said a red car carrying two men came up behind the vehicle in which the Americans were riding, fired on them, then forced the car off the road. The assailants then sprayed the vehicle at close range with about a dozen bullets, Karachi Police Chief Malik Iqbal said. 
"Everyone in the car died on the spot," Iqbal said. 
No one has claimed responsi­bility for the killings but it comes two days after a Pakistani, Mir Aimal Kasi, was convicted in a U.S. court of fatally shooting two CIA agents in January 1993 outside the agency's Washington head­quarters. 
On Tuesday, the U.S. State Department issued a warning to Americans in the region to watch out for possible retalia­tion as a result of the convic­tion. 
"It is premature to say why they were killed but there is a strong possibility that it was linked to the Kasi's conviction an sentencing," Iqbal said. 
Prosecutors claim Kasi, who also wounded three others in the shooting, was out to avenge the bombing of Iraq and American meddling in Muslim countries. 
University of Notre Dame Department of Music presents 
Wbe ~otre ~arne QCborale & QCbamber (!&rrbestra 
Alexander Blachly, Director 
Music of:  DuFay  Palestrina  
Schutz  Bach  Brahms  
8:00p.m.  

Wed., Nov. 12 Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
Free & open to the public. 
SAINT MARY'S COLLEGE 
H 
AN IMP~OBABLE FA~CE IN TH~EE ACTS by 
NOEL COWARD 
MOREAU CENTER­LITTlE THEAlRE NOV. 13, 14,15 at 8pm
E 
&NOV. 16at2:30pm 
nckets on sale at the Saint Mal'('s College Box Office In O'Laughlln Auditorium, open Mon. • Fri., 9am to 5pm. Credit Card orders by phone : 
219/284-4626 
Mr;-r·C·"···w:J
1 cl!ifffkB­
~ HOTR~ DAME, IN 
Counseline 
Fill Your Head... Counseline gives you the information you need 1 X 7793 Monday -Thursday 4pm-12am 
Counseline is an audio tape info. service 
sponsored by the Psych Club and the University 
Counseling Center providing info. on topics 
including: Dating and relationships Fadng anxiety and fear Coping 'Nith stress Understanding eating disorders Date rape Dealing 'Nith loneliness and depression Recognizing the early signs of alcoholism Recognizing suicidal potential in others 
For a complete listing of all the tapes check the front of your directory 

..----------·----~-~­
·--~--~---­
page 8 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, November 12, 1997 
Suicide 
continued from page 1 
would be on the back of elder­ly parents and mentally retarded children." 
In situations where assisted suicide is legal, Solomon added, the old and the termi­nally-ill feel pressure, real or imagined, to choose suicide in order to stop causing expense to their families. 
He compared this to the out­break of widespread abortions after Roe v. Wade. 
"Once we legalize abortion, it becomes an expected part of life," he said. "If a guy gets his girlfriend pregnant, he will expect her to get an abortion." 
Similarly, he said, people may come to expect their ter­minally-ill family members to take the option of suicide once it is legal. 
In addition to ethical con­cerns, Solomon cited some practical reasons for opposing the legalization of physician­assisted suicide. 
"We do not need [assisted suicide] now, because we have living wills, and we have ways of dealing with pain effective­ly," he said. 
The implementation of the Death with Dignity Act, Solomon said, may have seri­ous practical consequences in the field of medicine as well. He expressed concern that legalized physician-assisted suicide will be gravely abused. 
He cited the practice of physician-assisted suicide and euthanasia in Holland as an example of the practice he fears may become widespread in the United States if assisted suicide is legalized. 
Although physician-assisted suicide and euthanasia are both illegal in Holland, they are widely practiced and ignored by the government. A study conducted by the Dutch government in 1991, common­ly referred to as the Remmelink Report, found that in 1990, 3,500 people were euthanized or assisted in sui­cide. 
One-thousand forty of these, the study said, were killed without their own knowledge or consent, and 72 percent of these patients had never indi­cated a desire to terminate their lives. 
The study also found that one of the reasons most fre­quently given by Dutch doctors for euthanizing patients was that "the family couldn't take it anymore." 
Nonetheless, 45 percent of the cases of involuntary euthanasia were performed without the knowledge of the family, according to the study. 
Because of this very real possibility of abuse, Solomon believes that it will be more difficult for people to trust their doctors if physicians are the ones allowed to assist in suicide. 
"Given that we allow it, we shouldn't let doctors do it," he said. "It is going to corrupt medicine." 
Oregon's Death with Dignity Act does contain a section with safeguards against abuse, including provisions that a patient seeking death must see two doctors, be capable of making such a decision and be informed of other options besides suicide. 
Solomon was wary nonethe­less. 
"Their strategy is to get a narrow bill passed so that they can expand it," he said, explaining that an appeal to the equal protection clause of the Constitution can often make it gradually easier for anyone to legally be assisted by a physician in suicide. 
The Death with Dignity Act was originally passed in a popular referendum Nov. 8, 1994, but it was put under a court restraining order by Federal District Judge Michael Hogan. 
In last Tuesday's referen­dum. Oregonians voted not to repeal that act. 
The Associated Press report­ed that there is still confusion as to whether the law has actually taken effect. Its oppo­nents have pointed out that Hogan's restraining order has not yet been lifted. 
The major groups speaking in opposition to assisted sui­cide, including the Catholic Church and the American Medical Association, have vowed to continue the court battle. 
The Death with Dignity Act is the first successful ballot initiative to legalize euthana­sia. It is only the fourth initia­tive set forth on this issue. 
The first initiative failed to collect enough votes to be put on the ballot in California in 1988, while the other two, one in Washington in 1991 and the other in California 1992, failed on a popular vote. 
Eldred spends her 
time with students 
SMC president celebrates spirit week 
BySHANA'E TATE News Writer 
Ever since she was hired at Saint. Mary's . College, President Marilou Eldred has been initiating involvement with the student body through attending many events. 
She has done everything, from hosting a picnic at her house to attending classes with the students. 
She does this, she says, because she wants to learn more about the people of the Saint Mary's community. 
That is what led her yester~ day to visit with the residents of Holy Cross Hall as a part of their spirit week festivities. 
"We were so excited that she was able to be a part of out spirit week," said Mary Ellen Blumreich, Holy Cross Hall president; 
"President Eldred wants to play an active role in the stu­dents' lives. We are happy that our residents took advan­tage of her beiQ.g here." Blumreich said. 
Eldred and. the residents of Holy Cross Hall had an infor­mal conversation about school life and life in general. 
"It was an enjoyable gather­ing to get to know her better," said Jennifer Appleton, Holy Cross vice president. 
The students asked Eldred for advice on related issues. "I thought it was great that she came and showed interest in the students. It [visiting with Eldred] was fun," said Amy Johns, a Holy Cross resident. 
In her other efforts to meet the students, Eldred has attended luncheons with stu­dent groups and with individ­ual students. She also has been present at athletic events. 
''I want to attend and be a part of events that students are a part of," said Eldred. 
She stressed that she wants students to know that she is "a real person." 
She also wanted to know why students come to Saint Mary's and what makes them stay, as well as the issues Saint Mary's students would like to see addressed. 
Eldred will be attending a gathering at Annunciata next week and she also hopes to go to Dalloway's in December. She plans to continue having luncheons, attending classes and supporting the Lady Belles on the sports fields. 

~OBSERVER 
H~;re's alist ofsome ofthe companies who have engaged our 

•
services: 
Ab)lo~*·Lfhoratories First Chicago Bank IBM An'd.erseltConsulting John Deere Kemper Insurance Microsoft Blue Shield Motorola PowerSoft ,, Quaker Oats Sears Sybase 
Meet DC Systems on November 17th at 7:00p.m. in the LaFortune Student Center Dooley Room. Refreshments provided. Interviews November 18 and 19. 
e  
SYSTEMS INFORMATION MANAGEMENT  DC SO  SYSTEMS FTWARE  DC CO  SYSTEMS NSULTING  DC SYSTEMS EDUCATION  


Management Consulting • Technical Education • Business Products 
-~-~------­
• LUXEMBOURG 
Court rules to promote women 
Associated Press 
LUXEMBOURG 
European employers are entitled to promote women ahead of equally qualified inen -simply because they are women, the European Court of Justice ruled Tuesday in<a decision aimed at promoting "gender balance." 
The European Union's top court, in a ruling binding on all 15 EU members, dismissed a complaint from a male teacher who failed to get a promotion in 1994. The job went to a woman with the same qualifications. With the ruling, the court altered its position on "gender balance" cases. 
In 1995, the court decided that women did not have an automatic right to be promot­ed over equally qualified men, saying such treatment would be incompatible with equal rights principles. 
On Tuesday, however.t EU court said: "Priority giv to equally qualified women which is designed to restore the [gender] balance -is not contrary [to EU law] provided that an objective assessment of each individual candidate ... is assured." 
The court said such discrim~ 
ination was justified because 
men already "benefit from 
deep-rooted prejudices and 
from stereotypes as to the role 
and capabilities of women.'' 
One such stereotype was the tendency to assume mothers were less committed workers. 

•IRAQ 
Diplomats petition U.N. to warn Iraq 
Group calls for US. inspection ofIraqi weapons 
Associared Press 
UNITED NATIONS 
Declaring that Iraqi defiance has reunited the Gulf War coalition, U.S. and British diplomats asked the Security Council on Tuesday to slap a travel ban on Iraq and warn of "further measures" unless it cooperates with U.N. arms inspectors. 
But the resolution did not include the threat of military force should Iraq continue refusing to rescind its Oct. 29 order to expel American mem­bers of the U.N. weapons inspection team. 
The draft also omitted a warning of "serious conse­quences" because of opposition from the French and Russians. 
U.S. Ambassador Bill Richardson said the council would vote on the resolution Wednesday and he expected "near unanimity" among the 15 council members. 
"This resolution is going to be passed tomorrow," Richardson said. "And we think it sends an unmistakable signal for Iraq to comply immediate­ly." 
Earlier, Richardson predicted a unanimous vote. Diplomatic sources said the lone holdout was China, which said it need­ed to consult Chinese leaders before deciding how to vote. 
Council sources, speaking on condition of anonymity, said several members would try before the vote to persuade the Iraqis to rescind the decision against the Americans. 
Britain's acting U.N. ambas­sador, Stephen Gomersall, said there were "diplomatic efforts by a number of members of the council with the Iraqi govern­ment at this moment." 
"We hope to hear positive news from that tomorrow," Gomersall said. "But as of now, the intention is this resolution will be voted on around noon tomorrow." 
The resolution would ban Iraqi officials who interfere with U.N. inspectors from trav­eling abroad, condemn Iraq for its expulsion 
language in hopes of a unani­mous vote. 
The French raised questions about the timetable for review­ing Iraqi compliance. 
Threats of force were deleted from the resolution in hopes of winning support from Russia, France, China and other nations anxious to resume lucrative trade links with Iraq once sanctions are lifted. 
Egypt insisted on language affirming the territorial integri­ty and independence of Iraq. The council suspended its con­sultations for about 90 minutes while the Egyptian-requested paragraph was inserted into 
the final draft. 
of American 
Iraq issued its inspectors order to expel and suspend American inspec­further tors after five reviews of council members economic France, sanctions Russia, China, against Iraq Egypt and Kenya until the -abstained on a inspectors comply immediately.' resolution last certify that month threaten-Baghdad is ing a travel ban. cooperating. Bill Richardson u.s. and British The Security United States Ambassador diplomats believe 
Council imposed the sanctions in August 1990 after Iraq invaded neighboring Kuwait. 
"The coalition has reunited itself because of Iraqi behav­ior," Richardson said. "We believe that there's strong una­nimity and consensus on the council that Iraq's behavior has been unacceptable." 
Despite the strong rhetoric, 
U.S. and British diplomats worked throughout the day to polish and sometimes weaken 
Iraqi President 
Saddam Hussein saw the abstentions as a sign of divisions on the council and sought to exploit them by mov­ing against the American inspectors. 
Iraq's deputy prime minister, Tariq Aziz, admitted Tuesday that his efforts to fend off coun­cil action had failed. 
Aziz flew to New York on Monday to press Iraq's demand that the United Nations agree to reduce the percentage of Americans on the inspection team, stop U.S.-manned U-2 spy flights and provide a timetable for the end of sanc­tions. 
After meeting with council President Qin Huasun of China, Aziz said he had not received any promises of change in the council's position. 
"If you don't have a change in the position of the Security Council, you cannot expect a change on the position of Iraq," Aziz said. Aziz has met private­ly with ambassadors of France, China and Russia, the perma­nent council members most sympathetic to Baghdad. 
Diplomatic sources said the envoys told him they could do little to argue Iraq's case as long as Baghdad defied U.N. orders. For the eighth time in nine days, Iraq banned an inspection team Tuesday because it included Americans. 
The inspectors are in Iraq to determine whether Baghdad has complied with U.N. orders issued at the end of the Persian Gulf War requiring that Saddam destroy all long-range missiles and weapons of mass destruction. That is the main condition for the council to lift the sanctions. 
The Iraqis claim the Americans are delaying certifi­cation of compliance to keep the sanctions in place. 
The chief U.N. weapons inspector, Richard B u tier, denied Iraqi allegations of undue U.S. influence on his team. Butler said Tuesday that his U.N. Special Commission on Iraq has a staff of 180 people of 35 nationalities working in Baghdad, Bahrain and New York. 



INVITES YOU TO A PRESENTATION ON 
"PREPARING FOR THE CPA EXAM" AND CURRENT EVENTS 
WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 12, 1997 8:00P.M. 
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME-LAFORTUNE CENTER FOSTER ROOM 
-$250 VOUCHER RAFFLE -SPECIAL COLLEGE DISCOUNT AVAILABLE TO STUDENTS -PIZZA & POP WILL BE SERVED 
Open to ALL Students Interested-BRING A FRIEND! 
FOR INFORMATION, CALL 277-4366 OR 1-800-443-3062 
Soft and lightweight, the Denali jacket provides fuzzy comfort on its own or zipped into a shell. Made of Polartec® fleece with abrasion resistant shoulder and arm patches, it is both warmer and murt durable than most fleece. Pit-zips and plenty of pockets add the finishing touches that make the Denali an outdoor dasstr 

NEVER STOP EXPLORING'" 

VIEWPOINT 
page 10 Wednesday, November 12, 1997 
THE OBSERVER 
NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARy's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1997-98 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Brad Prendergast Managing Editor Business Manager Jamie Heisler Tom Roland Assistant Managing Editor 
Dan Cichalski News Editor. ........................... Heather Cocks Advertising Manager.............................. Jed Peters Viewpoint Editor ....................... Kelly Brooks Ad Design Manager ..................... Jennifer Breslow Sports Editor .................................. Mike Day Production Manager ......................... Mark DeBoy Accent Editor........................... Joey Crawford Systems Manager ....................... Michael Brouillet Saint Mary's Editor ........................ Lori Allen Controller............................................ Kyle Carlin Photo Editor ........................... Katie Kroener 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame duLac and Saim Mary's College. It does not necessarily rdlect the policies of the administration ofeither institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Sports Editor, Accent Editor, Sainr Mary's Editor, Photo Ediror, and Associate News Edicor. Commentaries, lerters and Inside Columns present the views of the authors, and not neces­sarily those ofThe Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's community and to all readers. The free expression of varying opinions [hrough letters is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 
Editor-in-Chief  631-4542  Business Office  631-5313  
Managing Edimr  63 I -4 54 I  Advertising  63 I -6900/8840  
News/Photo  631-5323  Systems  631-8839  
Spores  63I-4543  Office Manager  63I-747I  
Accent/Saint Mary's  63 I -4540  Fax  63I-6927  
Day Edi[orNiewpoim  63I-5303  Viewpoint E-Mail  Viewpoint. I @nd.edu  
General Information  63I-7471  Ad E-Mail  observer@darwin.cc.nd.edu  

• lETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Starship Troopers is Powerful Satire 
The reviews by Josh Beck and Joe Leniski, on Monday 10 Nov., seem to miss the most interesting aspect of the film "Starship Troopers." Starship Troopers is a wonderful example of social satire. We are introduced to a future in which red-blooded American males and females aspire to the highest social standing possible: that of citizens. They join the military in order to be worthy members of society, and having become embroiled in a war with an alien race, are heroically por­trayed as protecting the human homeland. 
However, if you pay close attention you notice that the situation we are presented with is not as cut and dried as it may initially seem. The beginning of the war seems to have been provoked by human incursion into alien space; any consideration that the aliens are intelligent, and may want to negotiate a treaty are laughed down by scientists; after the aliens have lobbed a big asteroid at earth in retaliation for the human inclusion into their territory the only option even considered by the humans is extermination. The com­plexity does not end there. 
This clean, well-ordered society of the future is in fact a fascist state, where those who do not serve in the military are not enti­tled to vote or hold citizenship, and are of lesser status than the military elite. The insignia and dress uniforms of this military regime are consciously modeled after Nazi styles, with the agents of the military intelli­gence (one of whom is hilariously played by the former 'Doogie Howser') appearing in black SS raincoats. What a wonderful joke Verhoeven has played on us. Think of it. It should dawn on you about halfway through the film that he has actually gotten you to root for the fascists! Hooray! Let's exterminate the other species because they look like big bugs! There is even a scene reminiscent of WWII propaganda films, where little children are 'doing their part' by stepping on bugs here at home. 
The only thing that would have made the film complete would have been a final scene with alien civilians running in terror as the evil fascist humans nuked them to smithereens. I am amazed that this film got made in Hollywood, and I only wish that more people got Verhoeven's joke. Starship Troopers is not just a mindless shoot-em-up, it is indeed a biting satire of our militaristic culture. 
D. Gregory Macisaac 
Graduate Student, Department of Philosophy November 10, 1997 


Traditions More Powerful Than Bureaucracy 
I am in writing in response to Tom Roland's Inside Column titled "I Don't Care Anymore," in the Friday, Nov. 7 edition of The Observer. Being as I am the senator from Siegfried Hall, I want to address the issue of "Lee-Gate" before I move on to my other points. 
I would agree with Roland that the amount of time that the Senate spent on the Lee Hambright issue was frivolous. Lee is a great guy and did not deserve what the Senate put him through. However, what came out of that issue was extremely important. Each senator realized that they did not want to waste their oppor­tunity to make this campus a better place for students. Since then, we have managed to extend dining hall lunch hours, had the dining hall agree to have optional meal plans starting next year, obtain restricted parking hours on the Lyons Basketball Courts, and we are currently working on a campus shuttle-one that would circle around campus stopping at main buildings and park­ing lots along the way. All of this for the students' benefit. Yet, it is people like Roland that make me question why I spent my time on these issues. 
As for the general apathy that is felt around campus-two things. First, I love this place with all of my heart, and I know that there are many others that feel the same way. I knew when I decided to come here that I would be surrounded by the rich tra­dition of this campus and that something like co-ed dorms would never exist at a Catholic university such as this one. I came here because of the pride associated with the University, and the opportunities that it provides for its graduates. I am sure that all of you were well aware of these things when you arrived here too. Second, it is people such as Roland that cause a feeling of apathy to spread among students. You only need one bad apple to rot an entire tree. Perhaps he should spend less time complaining about what he doesn't have, and spend his last few semesters here appreciating everything that this prestigious university has to offer him. 
The community that we live in has its problems, there is no doubt about it. You are going to find that wherever you go; there is no utopia out there. It is unfortunate that we have to deal with racial tensions, but then again, we shouid all take pride in our individual ethnicity and work together from there. 
The decisions that our university bureaucracy make sometimes do raise questions among the students, and maybe rightfully so. However, just take these things in stride, because in the scheme of your life they are only minimal. Our United States Government also struggles with bureaucracy, and their decisions might be questioned, but should Roland abandon his country? 
Ross Kerr Sophomore, Siegfried Hall November 8, 1997 
• DOONESBURY GARRY TRUDEAU 
• fiUOTE OF THE DAY 

VIEWPOINT
Wednesday, November 12, 1997 page 11 
• GUEST COLUMN 
On Cold City Streets and in Great Universities: 
We Rise, We Rise 
"You must love the Lord with all your heart, with all your soul, with all your strength, and with all your mind, and your neighbor as yourself ... do this, and life is yours. " 
-Luke 10:27-28 
What can pocket change buy these days? A moment of solace on a toll road? Surely not something you'd value 10 minutes, let alone 10 years! Nevertheless, God has a way of pulling value from areas that you least expect. 
Ten years ago, circa some gray, wintery 
afternoon, I was sleepwalking briskly 
through downtown Milwaukee, on my way to 
an important engagement. Humming 
busses, pushing cold slush beneath their 
Mel 
tires, were my occasional distractions ­they of course, larger than the cars in their wake, demanded attention, particularly 
Tardy 
when I crossed the very busy streets. 
Puddles too-no way to ignore many, dirty 
lakes. Yet, all in all. I journeyed in purest 
slumber, barely noticing the scenes going by. 
I'm sure there were many other sojourners on the beaten path that day; downtown Milwaukee has always had lots of them, on their way to somewhere important. Who knows. maybe we were all headed to the same place-wouldn't that have been some­thing! However, even though we all shared the same, slippery path that day, we didn't experience the same journey. Quite simply, it was because he chose not to charge me a toll. Instead, he gave me something for my pocket change. 
I remember waking up, slow and grumpy, to his hat and scarf, stubbled face and worn, brown coat. He wore the street, and some age was on him. I was cautious, but not alarmed, at his presence. Still, had I known about the toll, I surely would have picked another way. 
The toll wasn't actually steep-change for a cup of coffee. Still, I hesitated ... then fished half the change out of one pocket and gave it to him. Suddenly, out of the ragged man flashed the most gracious of smiles and praises of "You all right, man! You all right!" You'd think I had just given him some Ben Franklins instead of petty silver and Lincolns. Until that moment, it hadn't occurred to me just how many other sojourners had refused to pay the toll. Naturally, I then tried to move on so I could kick myself for not giving him more. 
Perhaps because I was African American or because my pocket change had bought his trust. my street brother, with urgency, suddenly asked me, "Hey, tell me something: how come nobody like Black people?" The question was a powerful statement, bring­ing forth a million thoughts to my mind ... but not a word to my lips. My hesitation cocked his head sideways. "You black ain't 'cha?!", he demanded, a bit unsure now. "Yeah, of course," I retorted. "... well, tell me, how come nobody like black people? Why they wanna treat us bad, what do we do to deserve this?! ... I just don't under­stand." 
It was the day before Jesse Jackson was to address the Democratic National Party and nation, capping off the most successful run for U.S. president by an African American in recent memory. Although he had already lost the nomination to Michael Dukakis, I was sure the success of Jesse's campaign had made things better for African Americans. So I leaned over to the man and said, "I promise, things will get better soon." "You think so?!", he asked. "Yeah ... I do. You'll see." He bounced off the other way, praising me again with, "Hey, you all right, man!! You all right!" I watched him as he walked off to my left, down the street. I took a deep breath, and then contin­ued on my journey down the slushy street. 

A lot has happened in the ensuing 10 years. Jackson's campaign is now little more than an afterthought. Drugs and despair have ravaged many African-American fami­lies and communities. Campaigns of a different kind, by insensitive media making money by hyping fear. have ensured that terms like "drive-by-shooting," "inner city youth." "welfare mother," "gang-warfare," and "crack head" will always be synony­mous with the name "African American," or just plain "Black." Little wonder that "nobody like Black people." Little wonder at all, in fact, that we don't like ourselves very much. 
For years, I had very low self-esteem, particularly as a Notre Dame student, but never knew why. One day, years later. I confided in my brother that I hated myself, that I was depressed. I said this to him because I finally understood why. I knew how to answer the man with the toll. In large part, I realized, it was because I was buying into the many negative descriptions of myself and my people. In fact, I now truly believe there is an untapped gold mine of a market in the area of African American psychology. Anytime you can get people to live subconsciously in a perennial state of paranoia and self-doubt because of the negative things they associate with the person they see daily in the mirror, you don't have to destroy them ... they'll self-destruct. 
It pains me to see so many people give up on African Americans. Recently, I watched a movie where caucasian actor Jim Carrey told his wife that he was late for dinner bfJcause he got lost in a "bad neighborhood" and encountered trouble, but heroically fought his way through unscathed ... sadly, all his voice impersonations depicting those in the "bad neighborhood" were African American. Yet, I, too, often catch myself say­ing "bad neighborhood" instead of "African American neighborhood," while conversely describing predominantly white neighborhoods as "safe," based solely on-the demo­graphics! 
'How come nobody likes us,' indeed! 
Nevertheless, we must now begin to reverse this, to focus on the many things there are to love about African Americans. Our African American and African heritage includes deep spirituality, creative genius, courageous commitment to ideals, family values, and a strong sense of community. That these have survived and continually manifested themselves -despite slavery's mantle, 400 years of continuous oppression, and bitter racism-is God's testament to the strength of the people he created. We are not junk ... and that is why we still rise! 
Ironically, I have no recollection of my destination that cold, grey day in Milwaukee, but I do often wonder about the man I met and his journey. As I said, God pulls value from places we least expect, when we least expect it. The memory of a meeting with a man on a cold, Milwaukee street has inspired me, perhaps even defined me, for years -but barely cost me a cup of coffee. I can hardly call that a toll. If it were, he would've let me pass, like the others. No ... I believe it was-a down payment on a future which I must now help deliver. 
Knowing his journey still goes on, I cannot give up -on him or myself. After all, he awakened me from slumber, and now I must deliver on my promise to him: Things will get better soon, you'll see. 
Melvin Tardy is a Notre Dame alum and assistant professional specialist in the First Year ofStudies. ' The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
• WRONG SmE UP 
Cockroaches Build Character 
Sometimes Father Sorin visits me old dorms mixed so well with my when I doze off during class. He Fresh Mint Crest. It brings tears to my comes riding into Debartolo with the eyes, Margaret, much like those new Four Horsemen and taps me on the Bronco uniforms -not enough head with his crop, '"tis a shame, orange. When students can drink the Margaret," he whispers in my ear. tap water without fear of carcinogens "What? Oh, is it you again? Geez, or lead poisoning, what will happen to 
Father, I told you, ================ bottled water 
they'll do better sales? I would next year and if hate to see they don't, I Anheuser-Busch
Margaret
promise I'll take you or even Coors, for with me when I that matter, go transfer. Go Blue, out of business. 
Shaheen 
Father. Goodnight." 
"No, no Margaret, it's not that. It's not the football team. Give Bob some time. They'll do better. It's those new dorms. They're just shameful! We're getting soft. It's like what happened to the Vikings when they built that awful dome with the plastic grass." 
"The dorms? I don't understand, Father." 
"Margaret, I've been up and down those halls and haven't found a single cockroach, crick­et or gnat -not even in the drains! You know, because of them, U.S. News & World Report is going to drop us faster than the AP polls did. After all, how can you really be well-educated if you can't tell a cockroach from a silverfish? And just think of what kind of trouble our students will get into if they can't distinguish an Armenian cock­roach (which is smart and makes a good pet) from an Alsatian cockroach (which is mean and can't be trained) or the ordinary, run of the mill cock­roach from an HBO cockroach? At a minimum of $25,000 a year, everyone should be able to do that. It is an edu­cation like that which sets an ND grad apart from those surfers at Southern Cal, who are too busy trying to catch the next wave to get a real education." 
"Think of the career opportunities that will be lost. University statistics reveal that more ND graduates have worked for Orkin than have played in the NFL. Indeed, 10 University gradu­ates have ben awarded the prestigious "Exterminator of the Year" award ­that's more than have won the Heisman Trophy. I am told by reliable sources that Paul Hornung won both -first, the Heisman for his outstand­ing work at ND and then later the Exterminator of the Year in Green Bay, where to be honest, the bugs are barely alive and almost always frozen, making Hornung's job that much easi­er. After he won it, they decided that people in Wisconsin and Minnesota and places like that could not qualify for it. It was too unfair-too easy. You got any bugs in Denver, Margaret?" 
"I don't know. But we have this new airport and people say it has a few bugs. When I was home at fall break we had this huge blizzard. The airport stayed open but the road leading in and out of it was closed, so people were trapped in the airport and on the road. Does that count as a bug, Father?" 
"That counts. But what about the water in those new dorms, Margaret? It's not that frothy orange color and it tastes a heck of a lot like water. ram disappointed because I always thought that the metal flavored water in the It's the only thing 
that settles my 
stomach during 
half-time. Thank 
goodness for the Mishawaka 
Brewing Co." 
"Oh, Father, I think I 
understand. Just this 
morning, I was thanking 
my lucky stars that my 
radiator was crankin' 
out heat like a ban­
shee. Last week I 
was beside myself. 
I could not tame 
that raging beast. 
It went berserk 
spitting out heat. 
I did everything I 
could think of to 
stop its rampage. 
I opened the win­
dows, I slept with 
the box fan turned 
on to "high." I 
even said the "D" 
word. And what 
good did it do me? 
Not one bit. All it 
did was create a 30 
degree Arctic draft 
which blew on my neck 
and prevented me from 
turning my head for a 
week. It was then that I 
knew I would have to make 
peace with my radiator or take the chance that I might become perma­nently paralyzed. So, I sat down and gave my radiator a good talking to and we decided that since the room is hot enough to roast a turkey (not to men­tion me and my roommate), r would invite my whole family up for Thanksgiving dinner and cook the bird here." 
"Why, that's a splendid idea, Margaret." 
"My mother sure thinks so, although, she keeps asking me why she has to bring my father along. Anyway, Father, I can understand your prob­lem. But don't worry, I am sure you will come up with something. That whole business about a golden dome with a statue of Our Lady on top sure worked like a charm. Remember, Father, after the fire when you said that the problem was that we did not dream big enough and did not build high enough? That was progress." 
"That may be, Margaret, but maybe we have taken progress too far. In the newspaper, I saw an ad for Thanksgiving stuffing made with White Castle hamburgers. Stop laugh­ing, Margaret. I am not kidding. They even warned you to pick the pickle off first. You know, we have become so computerized and microwaved that maybe we have lost our common sense." 
"What should we do, Father?" 
"How about we turn on HBO, catch us a few critters and walk over to the new dorms?" 
Margaret Shaheen is a sophomore Arts and Letters major living in Farley. Her column appears every other Wednesday. She can be reached at Margaret.L.Shaheen.3@nd. edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not neces­sarily those ofThe Observer. 
·-­
:ACCENT
page 12 Wednesday, November 13, 1997 

BY MICHELLE S. PRIMEAU and SHANNON RYAN 
Saint Mary's Accent Writers 
Steaks. Omelettes. Fried Zucchini. Biscuits and gravy 
and a carafe of dry chablis. What do these things have in 
common? You can find them all at Nick's Patio at 1:30 in 
the morning. 
After roughly 16 hours of work, school, or play, most human beings need to sleep. However, there are others who defy the norm and can be found at any given hour in any given place. Like, oh let's say, Nick's Patio for instance. 
Sure, we "wild and crazy" college kids are occasionally prone to midnight Meijer runs, or known to crave a 2 a.m. steak or shake. But what on earth urges Mr. and Mrs. Jones and their 2.2 kids to haul the station wagon out for a good 3:37 a.m. hunk of red meat and a side of slaw at a 24-hour Greek restaurant? 
We decided to go Dick Tracy to find out who these people are, why they are at "The Patio," and most importantly, where do all the cool kids hang out? 
8:04 p.m. We enter Nick's Patio and are greeted by whom we presume is jolly ol' Nick himself. He seats us at a four-top in the corner. We remove our trench coats and shades and try to appear inconspicuous. We casually look around and see nothing out of the ordinary until WHOA!, what is that? 
A 7 -foot Marilyn Manson type ducks to avoid a concus­sion from the exit sign. His skin, as white as South Bend precipitation, looks even paler when compared to his butt­length black hair. 
We think we can guess his favorite color. His skin-tight jeans, Ozzy Ozborne T, and White Zombie cap are all black. The walkie-talkie he's clinging to is also black. Oh, charming! So are his fingernails. 
8:45 p.m. Two men in their mid-50s enter wearing matching teal sweatsuits. Awww, how cute. We overhear, "Hey, I'll tell ya', Sam. There ain't nothing like the gas tank on a '57 Chevy." His friend is just as adamant. "You're freakin' nuts! You know as well as I do, any Ford Thunderbird beats them all! Hands down!" Nick seats them next to us, seeing as they have asked for "a heavy smoking area." 
9:13 p.m. Marilyn Manson is finishing up his chicken dinner. (Unlike his hero Ozzy, he prefers his chicken cooked.) Surprisingly, his eating is very methodical. He incessantly licks his lips before and after every bite. He then swallows a big gulp of Heineken and wipes his mouth with his sleeve. 
9:49 p.m. The sweatsuit couple are still discussing the unappreciated intricacies of fuel tanks. 
10:22 p.m. Enter a mini-skirt clad woman who could easily have a doll named after her -"Strung-out Barbie" -just in time for the holidays. Her hair is Barbie blond with the exception of the halo of black roots. Her blood­red blouse matches her lipstick perfectly. Her head kind of wobbles when she sashays down the rows of tables, pretending it's her runway. 
10:51 p.m. A group of Widespread Panic groupies stop in for a quick coffee on their way back to the University of Chicago. They notice our tie-dyes and stop to chat. "Heeyyyy." Surprise -they're stoned! Would we be interested in going to your van to smoke a little Widespread Panic souvenir? No thanks, guys. 
10:57 p.m. Nine body-pierced, tattooed, purple-haired teens enter. They've just invaded Grandpa's closet for a night out on the town. Their polyester swishes as they pass by and cram into a corner booth meant for five. (It's obvious Nick doesn't want these hooligans disrupting all the "normal" customers.) They engage in seat races and creamer chugging contests until their burgers arrive. 
11:02 p.m. The sweatsuit pair finally leaves. Amazingly, the conversation has shifted to transmissions. 
11:23 p.m. A great haze arises from the corner booth. We glance over and see that the Goodwill Army has split a pack of Reds between themselves. It reminds us of under­age smoking escapades at the local Big Boy. Ah, those were the days. 
group of thirty-somethings George Michaellookalike. 
11:52 p.m. Most of the c observe the "Walk Back" ph where after paying the bill, tip.) 
12:03 a.m. A representat enters. Preserving law and baked potato. He talks to Nick 
12:28 a.m. Sock-Cap guy h He is on his eighth cigarette different glass for each one, ress to take any of them away. 

Nick's Patio is the quintessence of South Bend culinary dining adventure. restaurants. Nick's Patio is located at 1710 North Ironwood. 
11:34 p.m. A short, creepy, character with a sock-cap is seated across from us. He immediately orders a soda and lights up. He sinks into his chair and keeps looking around the place suspiciously. Perhaps he is counter intelligence, we will keep an eye on him. 
11:42 p.m. So, here's the story from A-Z: Three Spice Girl wannabes join up with the Goodwill Army -a strange combination. They hang out for about five minutes before the whole group decides to leave. The highly effi­cient bussing staff pushes through to the table as soon as they stand up. A rousing chorus of "Sh-yeah, whatever!" comes from the mouths of babes. 
11:44 p.m. The corner table is quickly occupied by a the morning? 
1:07 a.m Chino Man #1 the second time in Hall, I guess. 

1:15 to 1:35 a.m. Break time 
A Night In The Life Of 
-
Wednesday, November 13, 1997 page 13 
A CCEN T 
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------~---­
circa 1989 
stomers are leaving. We enon taking place (that's walk back to leave the 
of South Bend's finest he requests coffee and a his mother. 
sunk further into his chair. nd his fifth soda. He has a d he won't allow the wait-

n chinos, walk in. They're 
is seated in non-smoking. ree-year-old getting lungs you take her out at one in 
back to the bathroom for . Too much South Dining 
for the bus staff. One jug­gles toilet paper (two-ply, quilted,) another talks to Sock­Cap guy. 
1:52 a.m. Two heavily perfumed, heavily inebriated women enter and seat themselves. They begin yelling for the "waiter-ess." They are upset when they are told that they stop serving alcohol at 2 a.m. 
2:17 a.m. The conversation between the two women is very loud. The phrase, "The worst place I've ever had sex ... " is used repeatedly. 
2:32 a.m. Sock-Cap guy gets up to leave. Thank good­ness, I mean, who sits in a restaurant for hours and orders nothing but drinks? Oh, I mean, well, except for us. 
2:45 a.m. The two women are still there, and one looks like she is about to cry. Two men sit in a side booth and talk about right-winged life. 
2:50 a.m. The bathroom is flooded. We both wore long pants. Note: Next time drink less coffee. 
2:55 a.m. A cute young couple comes in and sits in our view. They sit on the same side of their booth. It's so cute that we feel like vomiting. We hear the guy say he slammed his thumb, she kisses it. Retch. 
3:05 a.m. It's busy again. A "drunken regular" approaches the officer and asks, "Officer Williams, how is your night going?" Two problems ~ the kid is so drunk that he cannot walk straight, and the cop on duty is not Officer Williams. 
3:15 a.m. There is a wait for tables, and chaos ensues. The right-wing men are hollering for service. A loud kid in line complains that everybody "took our table." 
3:37 a.m. The cute couple is joined by their equally cute friends and moves to a larger table. 
3:46 a.m. It's so packed that we're asked to move to a two-top to save space. Someone a few tables over says, "It's bumpin' in here. They should start some music and get the party goin'. I'm going to start a table dance, who's with me?" 
3:53 a.m. A red haired Domer twists a straw into a ring, gets down on one knee, and proposes to his girl­friend. She blushes and runs into the bathroom. I want to tell her it's flooded, but she moves too· fast. 
4:04 a.m. A creamer fight erupts in the non-smoking section. A stray jam bomb hits a non-participating booth. Tension between Domers and Townies increases. 
4:25 a.m. A lady asks to buy two cigarettes off of us for 
a tidy profit. We never knew that there was a market for tobacco scalping at family-style restaurants. 
After spending eight and a half hours just watching peo­ple, drinking coffee, and smoking cigarettes, we realized the appeal of the family restaurant. It essentially has the 
..
same Clllure as places like Bridget's or Coach's. No, not the alcohol, but the fact that it's someplace else. It's a chance to get out, a change of scenery, and a pretty good cup of joe. 
Your authors recommend the mushroom omelette . 


.;
ick's Patio 
page 14 The Observer • SPORTS Wednesday, November 12, 1997 
• MAJOR lEAGUE BASEBAll •NHl 
NL Cy Young Avalanche win Stanley Cup Final rematch 
to Martinez 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK 
Pedro Martinez ended the Atlanta Braves' streak of NL Cy Young Awards at four, easily beating Greg Maddux and Denny Neagle. 
Martinez, put on the trade market by Montreal immediately after the season, received 25 of 28 first-place votes and 134 points in balloting released Tuesday by the Baseball Writers' Association of America. 
Maddux, who won the award four con­secutive times from 1992-95, was second with the remaining first-place votes and 75 points. Neagle, his teammate on the Braves, was third with 24 points, followed by Philadelphia's Curt Schilling with 12 and Houston's Darryl Kile with seven. 
Atlanta and Maddux have combined to monopolize the award in recent years. After Tom Glavine won it in 1991, Maddux won it with the Chicago Cubs in 1992, then repeated in his first three sea­sons with the Braves. John Smoltz then won it last year. 
Martinez, a 26-year-old right-hander, joined with Schilling to become the first pair of pitchers in 25 years to reach 300 strikeouts in the same season. 
Martinez went 17-8 and led the majors with a 1.90 ERA. becoming the first ERA leader with 300 strikeouts since Steve Carlton in 1972. Opponents hit just .184 against him, the lowest average against any major league pitcher last season. His 305 strikeouts were second in the majors, 14 behind Schilling's total, and his 13 complete games led both leagues. 
Martinez gets a $100,000 bonus for leading the voting. 

DETROIT 
Colorado's Claude Lemieux figured he settled an old score Tuesday night. 
Lemieux started fighting Detroit's Darren McCarty just three seconds into the game, then reserve goalie Craig Billington stopped all 32 shots he faced to lift the Avalanche to a 2-0 win JVer the Red Wings. 
Hene Corbet and Eric Messier scored third-period goals as Colorado won the first meeting of the season between the last two Stanley Cup champions. The Avalanche and Red Wings, who have also established one of the NHL's better rivalries, proved quickly Tuesday that they still don't like each other. 
Lemieux and McCarty dropped their gloves almost immediately after the open­ing faceoff and fought toe­to-toe for about a minute before wrestling each other to the ice. Each player was given a five-minute penalty for fighting and a 10-minute misconduct. 
The two have squared off before, with their most notable fight coming during a brawl-filled game between the Red Wings and Avalanche last March 26 at Detroit. 
That night, McCarty blood­ied Lemieux in retaliation for a hit he put on Kris Draper during the 1996 playoffs that resulted in reconstructive facial surgery for the Detroit player. 
Lemieux wanted to avenge that battle because he hard­ly defended himself. 
"I thought about it mainly just today," Lemieux said. "It's not something you tell your teammates, that you're going to fight. I didn't say much; I just got myself ready. 
"If you're going to do it, do it right off the bat." 
McCarty said he could understand Lemieux's motives. But he still doesn't respect him. 
"It could've been easy for him to let things be, but he wanted to prove something to himself and his team­mates." McCarty said. "It was more or less his move. In my mind he's still an idiot because he hasn't apolo­gized to Drapes, whether he means it or not." 
Lemieux made no mention of the Draper incident. "I wanted to settle this," he said. 
The game settled into a defensive struggle that remained scoreless until Corbet netted his fifth goal 
11:43 into the third period. Messier iced it with 2:33 remaining when he put a centering pass from Mike Ricci between goalie Chris Osgood's legs. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day clas­
Classifieds sifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
Rooms In Private Home For  4 Wv Ga's For Sale Call Erin 4­ Ben Folds Five Are Coming In  I Donot Like Bessie Functions  
._____N_O_T_IC_E_s_  __.l  .....1 _~_'A_N_T_E_D_  __,  Football Weekends And Other Nd­Smc Events. Very Close To Campus-5 Min.  2453 Notre Dame  Concert To Stepan Nov. 18!! Check Out This Night Of Incredible Music Just For The Sound Of It! Tix At  Go On, Ask Her! "Would You Like To Go To Wsnd's Big Band Dance  
Xxx The Copy Shop Xxx  Gold!! Wanted Reps., Unlimited  Drive Or 15-20 Min. Walk.  Football Tickets  Lafunk Info Desk $9 For Nd, Smc,  With Me On Friday?"  
Lafortune Student Center  Earning Potential!!  243-0658.  Buy -Sell -Trade  Hcc Students, $12 For Public.  
Store Hours  616-461-6772.  Only Five Days Left. ..  
Mon.-Thur.: 7:30 A.M.-Midnight  That Pretty Place, Bed And  232-0058  Adoption Happily Married Couple  Get Ready To Rumble!l!  
Fri.: 7:30 A.M.-7:00P.M.  Models/Dancers Wanted  Breakfast Inn Has Space Available  With Lots Of Love To Share With  
Sat.: Noon-6:00P.M.  Please Call219-271-0633  For Football/Parent Wknds. 5  Confidential  Newborn. Can Help With Doctor  Hey 263 Morrissey! Check The  
Sun.: Noon-Midnight  Rooms With Private Baths, $70­ Ticket-Mart, Inc.  Bills. Please, Call 1-800-484-6399  Paper Friday ... There Will Be A  
(Closed Home Football Sat.'s)  Tutor Wanted For Basic Computer  $90,  X2706.  Surprise!  
Phone 631-Copy  Help. Call 234-8938 After 5.  Middlebury, 30 Miles From  Buy/Sell ND Season And Individual  Love, Regina North (C, C, Cm)  
Campus. Toll Road, Exit #107,  Game Tickets.  lneterested In A Free Ticket For  
Great Resumes! Only 4 Mi. From  Wanted Female Helper For Errands  1-800-418-9487.  674-7645.  Ben Folds Five?? If You Want To  The Scary Thing Is That They All  
ND Campus On U.S. 31/33. Call  And Babysitting. Call  Help Load-In In Stepan From 10-3  Know Each Other'  
(616)684-4633.  234-8938 After 5.  1,2 & 3 Bdrm Homes.Gillis  Nd Football Tickets  On Nov.18, Call Ash leigh At 1­ 
Properties.  For Sale  7757.  It's a conspiracy. C-0-N .... spiracy!  
Spring Break '98  1997-98 National Park Employment  Daytime #: 232-2378  
Cancun, Jamaica, Bahamas, &  -Work In America's National Parks,  272-6551  Evening #: 288-2726  Xxx The Copy Shop Xxx  LElA: I thought you decided to  
Florida. Group Discounts & Free Drink Parties! Sell Trips, Earn Cash & Go Free! 1-800-234-7007 Www.Endlesssummertours.Com Ever Dreamed Of Your Own Business?  Forests & Wildlife Preserves. Companies Hire Entry Levei/SkilledNolunteer Workers. Summer/Year-Round. Competitive Wages & Bonuses! We Can Help You Make The Connection. (517)324-3082 Ext. N55841  6 Bdrm Home Next Fall.272-6551 FOR SALE Honda Accord Hatchback 1987. 93k Miles.  Low Prices For Sale N.D. G.A.'s 271-9412. Wanted N D G A's To All Home Games  Lafortune Student Center AHigh-Speed Copies ACanon Color Laser Copies ADigital Color Printing ABinding & Laminating APublic Fax Service 631-Fax1 Phone 631-Copy  stay. HAN: Well, the bounty hunter we ran into on Ord Mantell changed my mind. LElA: Han, we need you! HAN: We? LElA: Yes.  
Tasp International Seeks Students For Next Summer Who Want Entrepreneurial And Management  '"Earn Free Trips & Cash'" Class Travel Needs Students To Promote Spring Break 1998! Sell 15  V. Good Condition. $3,000 631-8672  1 Owner.  271 1526 We Need 2 Ga's For Wv  ... Swing ••• .In A Place You'd Never Imagine· A Dance. Students, Staff & Faculty  HAN: Oh, what about you need? LElA: (mystified) I need? I don't know what you're talking about.  
Experience. Positive Attitude A  Trips & Travel Free! Highly  Lv. Msg. (800)321-411 Ox1 0986  Are Invited To The Perfect Date  HAN: (shakes his head, fed up) You  
Must. Full Training. Earn $8k To  Motivated Students Can Earn A  Near Campus-1338 Miner St.  Event.  88.9 Wsnd's Live Big Band  probably don't.  
$10k. Call1-800-543-3792.  Free Trip & Over $1 0,000! Choose  2 Br Enclosed Front Porch. New  4 Wv Ga's:  Call 273-0428.  Dance.  This Friday Through Gate 1  LElA: And what precisely am I sup­ 
Cancun, Bahamas, Mazatlan,  Roof, Siding & Carpet.  In The Jacc From 7-11pm.  Call1­ posed to know?  
Tutor Available For Grades K-8  Jamaica Or Florida! North  Central Air & Full Basement  Need  7342 For Info On This "South Bend  HAN: Come on! You want me to  
Exper'd Cert'd Teacher Close To Nd Campus  America's Largest Student Tour Operator! Call Now! 1-800-838­ $44,900 1-800-382-2952  1 Conv Stu Tix Or Ga ForWv  Classic". ••• Swing •••  stay because of the way you feel about me.  
243-4984 ILOST & FOUND I Found • Found • Found'Found Piece Of Jewelry In C1 Parking Lot Near Juniper Road. Please Call  6411 Music Merchandiser: Whr Inc., Cd Supplier To The Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore, Is Looking For A Merchandiser For 1 0-15 Hours/Week. Must Be Available M, Th, F Mornings. Pick Up Application  Mac-12mb, Cd-Rom, Color Call Christian X3290 Monitor, Printer, Fax/Modem, $750/0bo, 4-4322 2 Wva Stud Tix, $12/Tic. U Need ld! '-W-an-te_d_•~-nd-:c_id-~-1W-a-~-.5-T-ick_e_ts.....l I'"';RSONAL  University Of Illinois Comp Top 10 10.You Can Dance In The Hallway­Just Don't Touch The Walls 9.What. Wrong Step?-A Syncapation If You Will 8.1slam, Join Us! Have The Honey Mustard!  LElA: Yes. You're a great help to us. You're a natural leader ... "On the twelfth day of Russia .. Can't handle the vodka anymore, Morgs?  
Dana @ 271-0250 To Describe And Claim. Thank You. Lost: Navy Polo Blazer At The Pangborn Formal. Call Brad  At Bookstore Office. FOR RENT  For Lsu/Notre Dame Game. Will Pay Cash. Phone (318)752-1208 Or (318)747-8820. Nd Vs.W. Va Tix  Adoption -Look No Further A Newspaper Ad Led Me To Debbie & Mike 2 Years Ago & I Chose Them To Adopt My Baby. They're Wonderful Parents And I  ?.What Happened To Taco Bell? It Was Right Here. So Much For Tradition! 6.Work It, Sherstin! 5.Really, 72 Was My Ensamble  There's nothing wrong with a little nap at Finnigan's. Mr. Mahwah, go to bed!  
At 4807 If You Have lt. Reward  Walk To Campus  For Sale 273-3911 Leave Message  Couldn't Be Happier With My  Speed  Walsh looks like eurotrash.  
2-5 Bedroom Homes  Choice. I'm Thrilled That They Want  4.U-Turn,U-Turn, Chinese Fire Driii­ 
..... Lost'''" Help!!  $195/Person 232-2595  4 Nd-Wvu Football Tickets For Sale. Call 860-623-3682.  To Adopt Again! They're Fun, Affectionate. Professional, Stable &  "That Was Not My Fault!" 3.Who Were Those Giggling Girls  Bryce, you have a big back seat.  
Large Gold "Ciaudaugh" Earring  Easy To Talk To. I'll Gladly Talk  In  Is Nelson there?  
Lost At "Finnigan's" On Friday, Nov. 7th.  House For Rent. Fall 98. 4/5 Br. 1 Bath. Wash/Dry.  ######## For Sale ######## 2 West Virginia Student Tickets  With You Too. (888)690-Baby Or Check Their Web Site At  Flannel Pajaymas? 2.4 Double Beds,5 Guys-And You  I just want to dance  
If Found Please Call Casey @ 634-1346. Please! I It Is Very  Dishwasher. Disposal. Fridge. New Gas Furnace.  (Cheap!!) Call Jenny@ 687-8435  Www.Meetus.Com  Need The Sleeping Bag Because ..? 1.1t's All About Body Glitter!  Stanford Hall basketball will go undefeated  
Special!  2 Blocks From Nd. Has Security  ########################  Xxx Looking For A Unique Gift?  
Lost -Roll Of Film At NO-Usc Game. Lost Somewhere Between  System. 289-4712  We Need 2 Ga's For Wv Lv. Msg. (800)321-4110x10986  Bring In Your Favorite Pictures And We'll Create A Personalized Color Copy Calendar!!!  I Need A Ride To Omaha, Nebraska For Thanksgiving! Please Help Me. Jon King -0605  Don't forget to play Lucky duck doublers  
Stadium & Shuttle Buses. Please Call 513-922-8756.  Subletting In Turtle Creek Call Meghan 243-7894  4 Wv Ga's: Call 273-0428.  The Copy Shop Lafortune Student Center  Got My Test Back  How many balloons does it take to lift a sixty-five pound punk?  


Here, you're valued for your ability to think, react, innovate and communicate. That's why people want to do more than begin a career here-they want to build their career here. 
In the creation and implementation of client-server solutions, PeopleSoft is the global leader. Beginning with nothing but a vision of the future, we have grown to $450 million in less than a decade. We invite you to come aboard as we extend the vision. 
PeopleSoft's continued success will demand the finest of today's graduating seniors in Information Technology, Computer Science, Computer Engineerin_g or a Business major with programming experience. 
Explode the status quo! 
Explore your career opportunities at PeopleSoft­
Sunday, November 16th, from 7:'30 p.m.-9:'30 p.m. Room 100 in Center for Continuing Education 
Refreshments will be served. We are informal, so casual dress is encouraged. 
For the 411 on PeopleSoft, visit our home page: www.peoplesoft.com 
PeopleSoft is committed to workforce diversity. 

~­
~. 
~-~ -~-~~----~---~ ---~~~---­ 
----~-~­~-----------------------------­ 
page 16  The Observer· SPORTS  Wednesday, November 12, 1997  

• NFL 
Defense, special teams propel 49ers to victory 
Associated Press 
PHILADELPHIA 
The old San Francisco 49ers routed teams with offense. They did it Monday night with defense and special teams, beating Philadelphia 24-12 as Merton Hanks returned a fum­ble for a touchdown. Chuck Levy scored on a 73-yard punt return, and Curtis Buckley's disputed hit and fumble recov­ery set up a third TD. 
Dana Stubblefield had 3 1/2 of San Francisco's eight sacks as the 49ers won their ninth straight game since an open­ing-week loss in Tampa. 
That moved them within a victory of their fifth NFC West title in six years and their 14th in17 seasons. They can clinch it 
-
Sunday by beating Carolina in San Francisco. For Philadelphia {4-6}, it was the first loss in five home games this season, and puts the Eagles in peril of missing the playoffs for the first time in Ray Rhodes' three seasons as head coach. How unusual was this game, the first ever played by the Eagles in all-green uniforms? San Francisco's offense, long 
its mainstay, gained just 213 yards for the game, and Steve Young was 13-of-23 for 103 yards as he left the offense to the defense. 
It started just 1 minute, 7 seconds into the game, when Lee Woodall stripped the ball from Ricky Watters. Hanks· picked it up and took it untouched to the end zone. 
The Eagles moved up and down the field, but had to settle for Chris Bonia! field goals of 28 and 34 yards that cut the lead to 7-6. 
Then came the game's key play. Three-and-half minutes into the second quarter, the Niners' Tommy Thompson punted to Philadelphia's Freddie Solomon. He signaled for a fair catch, but just as the ball got to him Buckley came crashing in. The ball came loose, and Buckley fell on it at the Philadelphia 26. 
The officials ruled that Solomon never had possession, making it a muff and making him fair game for Buckley. 
Three plays later, following a 19-yard pass from Young to Terrell Owens, Garrison Hearst took the ball in from the 1, and it was 14-6 . 

• MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL 
O's name pitching coach as Johnson's replacement 
Associated Press 
BALTIMORE 
Ray Miller, the pitching coach for the Baltimore Orioles, was hired as the club's manager today. He replaced Davey Johnson, the American League manager of the year who quit last week in a dispute with the team's owner. 
It will be Miller's second stint as a major-league manager. He managed the Minnesota Twins in 1985-86 and had a 109-130 record. 
Miller's familiarity with the current team and his long-term association with the franchise -he was the Orioles' pitching coach from 1978 to 1985 ­made him the top candidate to be Baltimore's fourth manager in five years. 
"I want things to continue the way they arc," Miller said at an 
DUBLIN, IRELAND 
Informational Meeting With Prof. Margaret O'Callaghan 
..­Thursday November 13, 1997 4:30P.M. 138 DeBartolo 

afternoon press conference. 
Orioles owner Peter Angelos hired Miller last season to improve a pitching staff that had a miserable 5.14 ERA in 1996. Under Miller, the Orioles compiled the best ERA in the American League and had three 15-game winners for the first time in 14 seasons. 
"Ray is a proven winner. Ray's work habits, his work ethic, his leadership skills we think will enable this team to take the next step, to go to the next level," said assistant gen­eral manager Kevin Malone. "We feel fortunate that Ray was here, that we can promote from within and we're looking for­ward to a championship here in Baltimore next yr,ar." 
During Miller's first stint with the Orioles he helped produce two Cy Young winners -Mike Flanagan in 1979 and Steve Stone in 1980. 
The 52-year-old Miller has 
expressed confidence that he will be able to get along with Angelos, who fired Johnny Oates and Phil Regan before butting heads with Johnson in a stormy two-year relationship that deteriorated after the Orioles lost in the AL champi­onship series for-the second time in two years. 
"Mr. Angelos is quite an involved businessman who paid $60 million to put a good prod­uct on the field," Miller said. 

Industrial, Progrossfvo , Hofro , A.JfornafivoDanco 
.fr'" •dml11/oa ,r/1/J r•Jid ooll'r' ID .II; prop"r ld#all.flo•tlon 
EVERY WEDNESDAY 
Snow Crab Legs, NJ-U-Can-Eat, JUSt 15.95 9 oz. Top Sirloin Butt Steak & 1 lb. of Snow Crab Legs, just 17.95 
Open 5-lOprn Tues.-Thurs. & 5-llpm Fri. & Sat. Free Admission to Heartland vvith Dinner 

------------------------~------------------------,
--------~-----------------------------------------------------------------------------­
•MLB -­
World Champion Marlins unload high-priced Alou 
Associated Press 
MIAMI 
Two weeks after winning the World Series, the Florida Marlins began their fire sale. 
The 5-year-old Marlins start­ed gutting their high-priced roster Tuesday, trading Moises Alou to the Houston Astros for two minor-league pitchers and a player to be named. 
"Experience teaches you when this happens, the percep­tion is that it's not a good deal," 
Marlins general manager Dave Dombrowski said after the first of what promises to be many teal deals. "It's not what you prefer to do." 
Alou signed a $25 million, five-year contract last December, but spent only one season in Florida. He led the wild-card Marlins with 23 home runs and 115 RBis. and was a key contributor in the World Series win over the Cleveland Indians. 
Owner H. Wayne Huizenga wants to ditch expensive stars as fast as he signed them after last season, when he committed $89 million to free agents. 
Huizenga, claiming he lost $34 million this year, intends to sell the Marlins to a group headed by team president Don Smiley, and the pair have vowed to cut payroll from $54 million to about $20 million. 
That means Gary Sheffield, Bobby Bonilla, Alex Fernandez, Kevin Brown, AI Leiter and Devon White arc candidates for trades, too. 
The new-look Marlins will 
include the likes of Oscar 
Henriquez and Manuel Barrios, the pair of 23-year-old right­banders acquired from Houston along with a player to be named. 
"In this situation we're look­ing for young quality players that are ready to step in," Dombrowski said. 
Alou, 31, was thought be many to be the MVP of the World Series, an award that officially was given to Marlins pitcher Livan Hernandez. Alou hit .321 with a pair of doubles, three homers and nine RBis in Florida's seven-game victory over Cleveland. 
Alou hit .292 during the regu­lar season. 
"Moises Alou obviously is one of the premier players in the game today," Astros general manager Gerry Hunsicker said. 
"It's unusual that anybody can acquire a player of this magnitude. Adding him to our lineup makes us a force to be reckoned with." 
Alou is to be paid $5 million in each of the next two seasons and $5.25 million in each of the 2000 and 2001 seasons. Others probably out of the Marlins' new price range are 
Sheffield ($61 million in the next six seasons), Bonilla ($5.9 million in each of the next three years), Brown ($4.8 million in 1998). Fernandez ($7 million in each of the next four seasons). Leiter ($3 million in '98) and White ($3.5 million in '98). 
Fernandez, expected to miss all of 1998 following rotator cuff surgery, agreed Tuesday to a partial waiver of his no-trade clause that will allow Florida to expose him in the expansion 

KAT 
Moises Alou may just be the first of what could be a face-lift for the Marlins. Key contributors like Bobby Bonilla, Alex Fernandez, and Gary Sheffield could be next to leave Miami in order to cut the Marlins' payroll. 
draft, one baseball official said of your order, it's a pretty awe-on the condition he not be ideo-some trio, no matter what the tified. order is," said Hunsicker, 
Under his contract, Alou had whose team won the NL Central a limited no-trade clause. On despite an 85-78 record, then Monday, he gave the Marlins was swept by Atlanta in the his list of six teams he could be first round of the playoffs. dealt to. The deal is especially unusual 
In Houston, Alou joins a line-because the bullpen has been up that already has Craig Florida's strength. Henriquez Biggio, Jeff Bagwell and Derek was 4-5 with a 2.80 ERA and Bell. · 12 saves in 60 games with 
"When you put Bagwell, Triple-A New Orleans last sea-Biggio and Alou in the middle son. Barrios was 4-8 with a 3.27 ERA in 57 games. 
"I don't know what their thinking was. All I know is they got a couple of good arms," Hunsicker said. 
Henriquez, a native of LaGuaria, Venezuela, and Barrios, a native of Cabecena, Panama, could appeal to Hispanic fans in South Florida if they become successful. 
But they won't replace the drawing power of a winning team and Alou. 


R.Ao•~p resent s8 

-~­
• 
~c,~
Dance 
Featuring
\\ II
~uHedo Junction 
Friday, Nouember 14 7:00 PM 11: 00 PM .Joyce Center Monogram room Concourse (Gate 1J 

$5 Per Person $8 Per Couple 
page 18 The Observer • SPORTS Wednesday, November 12, 1997
-
LSU 
continued from page 24 
lot of progress. I think we're a better team now than we were earlier in the year." 
The fact that the game is at Tiger Stadium will play a major factor for the Irish. Cited by many as the toughest place to play in the country, compara­ble with Michigan, Florida, and Tennessee, the crowd could play a role in the outcome for the Irish. 
The Irish have dealt with the crowd interference in the team's ability to execute once before this season and the out­come was not in their favor. In a pivotal fourth-down play in the fourth quarter against Michigan, there was confusion at the line of scrimmage that many speculated was due to the noise level. 
In order to help eliminate the chance of crowd interference, Davie has had the team prac­tice inside Loftus Center with the addition of tapes that simu­late crowd noises. 
Overall, however, the key for the Irish will be complete con­centration on executing their game plan without missed assignments or stupid mistakes and by putting forth a 110-per­cent effort. 
"With their big-play capabili­ties on defense and their crowd, we can't start going backwards on offense, because if we do, we'll just self­destruct," Davie said. 
"On defense, it's pretty obvi­ous that we have to tackle. They're going to get their big plays by running toss sweeps, by running isolations, and mak­ing people miss tackles, and they do a great job." 
Photo courtesy of Louisiana State University Sports Info LSU's Kevin Faulk is a big-play threat every time he touches the ball. He leads the SEC in all-purpose yards and is second in rushing yards per game. The Irish will look to shut down Faulk and the Tigers' explosive offense. 
esc Mexico Se111inaY 
1998 
* 2 week seminar is -credit experiential learning 
• 
opportunity in Cuernavaca. Mexico. Approx. da 
the economic. tin America. Spring semester to 
plan. or the trip. 
* Open to Notre · sophomores and juniors. 
Infonnational l\'lecting 
Thursday. November 13th. 
5:00PM at the esc 
Applications 
Available at the CSC 
Due Friday, Nov. 21st 
The Observer/Brandon Candura For Mot·e lnfonnation 
Benny Guilbeaux and the Irish secondary hope to contain the Tigers' offense . Call Michele Waslin@ 288-6863 or 631-5293 
• SPORTS BRIEFS 
Notre Dame Martial Arts 
Institute.;;_ Tae kwon do 
and jujitsu practice for 
beginners will tah place 
from 4 to 6 p.nL on 
Thursdays and 6 to 8 p.m. on 
Sundays In Rool'Q. 218 Rockne ~e~ori 
welcome; .> · · 
Field Hockey ..;... Practice will 
be on Mondays and 
Wedn¢s«;lays from 9to 10 
p.m. in Loft~s-. Call M~~~~en at x428lpr $teph.anje at·· x2741 withany questions. Synchronized Swhnming Practices are held . on Mondays. and W ednesda.ys from 8 to 10 p.m. and Sundays from 10 a.m. to 1 
p.m. 
Recycle The Observer 


page 20 The Observer • SPORTS Wednesday, November 12, 1997 
• COLLEGE BASKETBALL 
Princeton begins season with upset of No. 22 Texas 
Associated Press rillator implanted. The 52-year­old Penders, who was diag­EAST RUTHERFORD, N.J. nosed with cardiomyopathy in 
It's usually much later in the 1991, is expected to resume his season when Princeton scares regular duties within 10-14 or beats a team considered days.much better. Princeton went on a 14-4 to 
The Tigers started this season break a 36-36 tie for a 10-pointthat way Tuesday night with a lead with 5:46 to play. Texas 
62-56 victory over No. 22 Texas wasn't done yet as three 3­in the Coaches vs. Cancer pointers, the last two by fresh­Classic. man Luke Axtell, had the 
Princeton will play North Longhorns within 50-49 with Carolina State, which beat No. 3:30 to play.19 Georgia 4 7-45 in the opener The Tigers never lost their 
of the doubleheader at poise and used the extra five 
Continental Airlines Arena, in seconds on the experimentalWednesday night's champi­shot clock being employed to onship game. their advantage. 
The Tigers used the same They had two field goals in basic principles -patient the final 2:22, one on a nice offense and team defense -long pass from Brian Earl to used over the years in NCAA James Mastaglio for a rare tournament scares against the Princeton dunk, and went 8­
likes of Georgetown, Arkansas for-8 from the foul line to seal and Villanova and the huge the victory. first-round win over defending Mastaglio and Earl each had 
champion UCLA in the 1996 15 points for Princeton, while tournament. Gabe Lewullis added 13. The 
Texas was playing without Princeton starters accounted coach Tom Penders on the side­for all the points and played all line. but six minutes. 
He underwent heart surgery DeJuan Vazquez led the last Thursday, having a defib-Longhorns with 10 points. 
JAZZMAN's 
NITE CLUB 
525 N. Hill Street 233-8505 
THURSDAY COLLEGE NIGHTS NOVEMBER 1:JTH FEATURING A BACKYARD BOOGIE BUCK PARTY 
Doors open 8:00 p.m. 21 and over with proper ID's $2.00 with College ID -$4.00 without Off Duty Uniform Police Security -Lighted Parking 
Save $1.00 with this ad November 13 · 
LVUJ..lJ..l~ JVVII 
Friday, Nov. 21 SKALCOHOLIKS Thursday, Dec. 4 TASHI STATION Don't get evicted-Hold your off campus party at Jazzman's-no rental cost-must be 21 or over 233-8505 for info. 
~ck ·n CJ3ow[ 
This Friday, November 14th 1OPM-1AM 
AII-U-Can-Bowl -free bowling shoes DJ -Dancing -Door Prizes at Beacon Bowl -by the airport. Only $10 
ACT FAST -THERE IS A LIMITED NUMBER OF TICKETS AVAILABLE Look for us today in North Dining Hall or contact Anne 

Deitch at x 1480 for tickets and more information 
Sponsored by the Notre Dame Bowling Team 
away from Southern Cal in a Long hit 4 of 5 3-pointers and New Mexico 98, 98-76 win at the NABC Classic. frequently slashed his way to Southern Cal 76 No. 24 Temple beat Auburn the basket in hitting 11 of 21 68-42 in the first game of the shots. He led an offense that March or November, it's all doubleheader that was part of solved every defense the the same to New Mexico sopho­the opening night of college Trojans threw at New Mexico 
more Lamont Long. basketball. as the Lobos ran their home­
The Lobos' best player in the "The sky's the limit with court winning streak to 27 final month of the 1996-97 sea­Lamont," said New Mexico games -third longest among son opened the new year with a coach Dave Bliss. "He has major colleges. career-high 31 points Tuesday tremendous feel for scoring New Mexico shot 50 percent as No. 11 New Mexico raced points in a variety of ways." and hit 13 of 26 3-pointers. 


• NFL 
Detroit's Sanders third on NFL's career rushing list 

STUDENT DISCOUNTS MAY APPLY 
Ifyou're a math whiz, you'll know it's a great deaf 
-..
(If you're not, well, you can come along, too.) 
Hey, we all know that college students don't have a lot of money to throw around. That's where Amtrak® can help. We can get you home for the holidays to see family and friends with low fares and special student discounts. Student Advantage members save 15% on our already low fares. To. see how much you can save call your travel agent or 1-800-USA-RA.IL. Trains depart from the Amtrak station at 2702 W 
Washington Ave, 
South Bend, IN. 

Associated Press 
RALJON, Md. 
The quarterback didn't matter, nor did having Barry Sanders in the back­field. The Redskins defense was ready, leaving the Detroit Lions embarrassed and still winless at Washington. 
The Hcdskins shut down three quar­terbacks and the NFC's top rusher and receiver Sunday, forcing four turnovers to beat Detroit for the 18th straight time, :~0-7. Detroit has never won on the road against Washington, losing in all 19 visits since 1938. 
The Lions couldn't break that skid despite Sanders' eighth consecutive 100­yard rushing game on the road, break­ing Marcus Allen's record. Sanders, who had 105 yards. also became the first player in NFL history to rush for 1,000 yards for nine consecutive seasons. plus he got the 17 yards he needed to over­take Tony Dorsett for third place on the league's career rushing list. 
But .James .Jenkins caught a touch­down pass and Terry Allen ran for one score -both were set up by pass inter­ference penalties -as Washington ended a losing streak of its own. Coach Norv Turner had been 0-13 the weeks before and after playing his old team, Dallas. The Hedskins (6-4 visit the Cowboys next week. 
"We still have some guys who aren't 
100 percent." said Turner. who got both 
Ken Harvey and Michael Westbrook 
back after injuries. "But we are getting 
stronger and we are getting better, and 
that's what you want to do in 
November." 
The Lions (4-6) have lost three 
straight, putting the team's playoff 
hopes in jeopardy in the top-heavy NFC 
Central. It was so quiet in the Lions 
locker room that the only voice heard at 
point was quarterback Scott Mitchell's 
young son, .Joshua. 
"The way we played, we don't even 
deserve to be thinking about the play­
offs." coach Bobby Ross said. ''I'm 
embarrassed by it. They dominated us. 
They outplayed us. They outcoached us. 
If we have to make changes in the ball 
club. we arc going to do that." 
Mitchell struggled, missing several open receivers, before leaving in the second quarter with a strained ham­string. 
His status for next week is uncertain. His replacement, Frank Reich, started 0­for-6 with an interception that led to a Washington touchdown. 
Reich. seeing his first action of the season. was then knocked out of the game in the fourth quarter when he was sandwiched by Chris Mims and Rich Owens. Third quarterback Matt Blundin came in and was hit by Harvey as he threw the ball on his first play. Darryl Pounds intercepted -his second of the game -and ran 22 yards for a touch­down. 
Reich returned on the next Lions series to finish the game. He finished 10-for-28 for 110 yards and two inter­ceptions, while Mitchell went -for-14 for 53 yards. Detroit's time of possession was 19:57, compared to Washington's 40:03. 
"We'd overthrow; we'd underthrow," Ross said. "We just didn't play well at a very important times." 
Though he had a record-setting clay, Sanders was an ineffective weapon against the second-worst rushing defense in the league. He had one high­light: a classic, reverse-field, 51-yard touchdown sprint that helped run his streak of 1 00-yard games to eight. 
"It's like Michael .Jordan," Harvey said. "If he scores 30 points, it's a bad day. Everybody's satisfied if they only hold him to a little bit. Sanders got his one big play. If you look at everything else, all in all the defense did a pretty good job." 
In the second quarter, Sanders over­
took Dorsett for third place on the 
league's career rushing list with a 10­
yard run off right tackle. Sanders now 
sits behind Walter Payton (16,726) and 
Eric Dickerson (13,259). 
The records were no consolation for 
Sanders, who also lost a fumble. 
"I hope this is the low point," he said. 
Sanders and Buffalo's Thurman 
Thomas began the year sharing the 
record of eight consecutive 1.000-yard 
seasons. Thomas had 374 yards this 
year going into the Bills-Patriots game Sunday. 
Sanders has rushed for 1,000 yards in each of his nine NFL seasons. The only player with more 1,000 yard seasons than Sanders is Payton, who had 10 (1976-81, 1983, 1986) with the Chicago Bears. 
In addition, the Redskins cornerback tandem of Darrell Green and Cris Dishman blanketed Lions receivers Herman Moore and Johnnie Morton. Moore caught just five passes for 36 yards, while Morton had five for 69. 
The Redskins got their first TD to make it 10-0 Gus Frerotte hit Jenkins for a 1-yard score after Corey Raymond was whistled for interference. 
A M T R A K~
1-800-96-AMTRAK www.amtrak.com.
*Fares shown are each way based on round-trip purchase apply to coach travel only and are subject to availability. Reservations may be required. No multiple discounts. Blackout dates may apply. Fares, schedules and restrictions are subject to change without notice. 

·~--------.~------~~-------------------~----­
• MEN's SoccER 
Cutler named student-athlete 
page 22 
NCAAs 
continued from page 24 
18th-ranked Michigan. In the third round, they could meet Portland or Texas A&M. 
"We may have gotten shaft­ed, but we are glad that we got shafted," Streiffer said. "We want to play all the top teams. I am really excited about the chance of playing Nebraska. Coach reminded us that you can't tell what is going to hap­pen in the tournament." 
Overall, Notre Dame is 5-0-1 against the field. The Irish registered a tie against North Carolina, and they defeated Connecticut, Duke, Portland, and Michigan in the regular season. 
The Irish are charged for the tournament and thirsty for the title. By playing at home, they feel that they have the upper­hand. 
"I think we've kind of been focusing on peaking at the right time," Streiffer said. "We started off relaxed, and now we are playing great." 
The Irish are coming off a win against No. 3 Connecticut and are ready to face the Bearcats on Sunday at 1 p.m. to see if playing at home really is an advantage. 
The Observer· SPORTS Wednesday, November 12, 1997 
The Observer/John Daily 
Midfielder Shannon Boxx was influential in the win over the third-ranked Lady Huskies in the Big East championship. She and her Irish team­mates will most likely have to face UConn again on the road to the NCAA championship game. 
Special to The Observer Notre Dame to its eighth 
shutout of the season with a 2­
David Cutler was named GTE 0 victory at Seton Hall in the Student Athlete this .----=::=-----., quarterfinals of the Big week for his outstand-East championship on ing performance in the Sunday. With the win, classroom and on the Notre Dame advances soccer field. to the semifinals of the 
Cutler's GPA is cur-Big East tournament rently a 3.806 and he for the second straight is enrolled in the year. School of Architecture. The Irish won the 
Cutler, a defender Cutler 1996 tournament crown who has started 15 of in only their second 20 contests this season, helped year as a member of the league. 
Cutler, who missed all of last season while studying abroad in Italy, has been a steady per­former for the Irish in both the backfield and midfield. 
He has a goal and two assists on the season, the first points of his career. 
Notre Dame is slated to meet defending national champion St. John's in its Big East semifi­nal matchup on Nov. 14 at noon at Joseph .J. Morrone Stadium in Storrs, Conn. 
The Observer/John Daily 
Freshman Anne Makinen from Helsiniki, Finland, is just one of the 
..­
many outstanding young players that have made an impact for the Irish. 
BY jEss BoRGESON, ADAM LoNG AND DANIEL SINGER DIRECTED BY MARK SEAMON 
WEDNESDAY, Nov. 19 ........ 7:30 PM THURSDAY, Nov. 20 .......... 7:30PM FRIDAY, Nov. 21 ................. 7:30PM SATURDAY, Nov. 22 ........... t30 PM SuNDAY, Nov. 23 ............... 2:30 PM 
PLAYING AT WASHINGTON HALL RESERVED SEATS $8 • SENIORS $7 • ALL STUDENTS $6 
TICKETS ARE AVAILABLE AT LAFORTUNE STUDENT CENTER TICKET OFFICE. MASTERCARD AND VISA ORDERS CALL 6JI-8I28 
Off-Campus Formal 
Fr~ay, Dec 5th 
"'*'·· 
ior~ar 2am $10/ticket benefits Adam Sarge 
-ttl 
FREE o-c first 500 
FREE F 
Cash FREE Pi~up United 
must 
Buy from your 
Lorna Oates-College Park 18087 Apartment C 271-7458 Carolyn Adorney-College Park 18087 Apartment D 271-7677 John Campbell-1014 St. Louis St. 234-6784 David Neville-1628 Turtle Creek Court 272-6512 Kathleen Jordan-1667 W. Turtle Creek Dr. 243-2635 
lissa Myron-Apt. 10 Lafayette 289-2836 

MEN ABOUT CAMPUS DAN SULLIVAN 
YOUR HOROSCOPE 

Ff?ON[ MOVES JN. 
MOTHER GOOSE & GRIMM 

yours for the taking. Taurus: You feel the pull of many attractive options today. Nothing is urgent enough to rush your decision making process. Evaluate a strategy before making a full commit­ment. Gemini: Your friendships are a vital part of who you are. Show others how much you
MIKE PETERS 
care for them by listening deeply to what they have to say. A social experience feeds your mind as well as your spir­it. Cancer: This is not a good day to go looking for trouble. A boss or a powerful client is ready to shoot at anything that moves. Avoid submitting work that is less than perfect. Leo: Sign up for a class today, or perhaps plan to study the art of vacationing. You have far more creative energy than the task at hand requires of you. Even as your mind wan­ders, maintain the illusion of 
SCOTT ADAMS 
being busy. Virgo: Selfish activity is 
u 
favored today. Get as wild as you want, but not in situations 
DO '<OU ENGINEERS HAVE .= WE HEAR JUST 11-IE. 
A SECRET PACT TO .~ YOU GI\VE TIME Of DAY. 
where discretion is advised. 
~ 
,. 
There are some people whose job it is to keep you from hav­
WIT HOLD 1\Ll USEFUL <IJ lNFOP..-HE WOULD 
lNFORMI\TtON? '<OU MAHON TO HA.VE FOUNO 
ing too much fun.
~ 
HI\VEN'T 1\NSWERED ONE ... 1"\ARKETING. OUT 1\NYWf:l.Y! 
Libra: Today promises to be QUESTION AND IT'S " 
EUGENIA LAST 
uneventful. You find yourself 
lost in fantasies of how much better your life could be. If you 
have all this extra time on 
your hands, why not actually do something about it? Scorpio: Today overachieve­
ment is a little too close to simply overdoing it. Relax your body from its usual fight­
or-flight setting. Eat food that 
will refresh and energize you instead of slow you down. Sagittarius: What seems like a good idea to you makes no 
sense to someone else. 
Creativity can get you around 
obstacles, but it can also remove them. You get your way with a convincing expla­
nation. Capricorn: Keep an eye on the contractor who is doing work around your home. Watch out for a serious misunderstanding at your place of business. People may have widely differ­ing visions of the same idea. Aquarius: Aquarians who work in advertising and communi­cations will have a good day. Test your message on a focus group before taking it public. One misplaced word can make all the difference. Pisces: Possessive behavior is out of character for Pisces, but you can't seem to help yourself today. Conceal that which you would prefer not to share. Avoid ill feelings if someone accidentally crosses your boundaries. 
-
'­
IH£ NiNE: CIRCLE"S OF ~fdl. 

AS You CAN SEE, SouTH Hf_ BEND IS IN foR A CoLD }Y·-( i,-~tfii1ER AS A 1'R£ACHERY1---:flr-----~ 

DILBERT 
... WELL, THAT DEPENDS ON MANY FI\CTORS INVOLVING FE.I\TU RES 
AND USI\G£.. 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 1 Zoning unit. maybe s ComiC Bill, familiarly 8 Reception 1m prover 13 Cartoonist Addams 14 "Critique of Practical Reason" writer 15 Heavenly hunter 16 Work between JObS 17 Brainstorm 18 Communion offering 191929 Hemingway book, with "A" 22 Sign by a door 23 Serpentlike 

24 Toots one's horn 27 K-0 bridge 
28 Car launched by an aeronautics company 
32 Come up 33 Vegans avoid these 35 Constructor of many dams: Abbr. 36 1950 Jean Simmons film 39 Sao Paulo-to-Riodir. 40 "Go and catch a 
falling star" poet &3 Auden's "To My 41 Checked, as a Pupils," e.g. computer &4 Ponce's program birthplace 42--bird 44 God, in Roma 
DOWN 
,. 
0 
" 
-' ..0 
@ 
<IJ,.
.. 
a.. 
.... 
.... 
0 
<IJ 
" 
45 Tubs 4650% 48 Accounting, 
e.g.: Abbr. 49 1934 James 
Hilton novella ss Cruising 56 Good. long bath 57 Colorado resort 59 Philanthropist 
Wallace and others 
so Spinners 61--time (never) 
62 Accompanying music 
.~ 
c 
\ 
Aries: This is a good day to focus on income, investment returns, and cold, hard cash. Being passive will cut seriously into your profits. Success is 
-
-
SPORTS 
page 24 

• WOMEN'S SOCCER 
Women start NCAA run at home 
By KATHLEEN LOPEZ nite advantage. "Having the home field Assistant Sports Editor "It is great that we will be at advantage will be great home," junior Shannon Boxx because we can relax," sopho­There is no place like home. said. "It is always nice to have more Jenny Streiffer said. "We The second-ranked women's the home advantage. Even won't miss classes, or have to soccer team agrees that play­though it is going to be cold, fly around the country, or ing its first NCAA tournament we are hoping for a big home worry about playing catchup in 
game at Alumni Field is a defi-crowd." class. All that really helps a lot." Cincinnati won the Conference USA crown and beat Georgia State 2-1 in over­time to gain its bid. Tina Matlock leads Cincinnati, hav­ing scored 13 goals and recording 10 assists. ·she scored the two goals for the Bearcats in their win. "Cincinnati will be a tough opponent for us," Notre Dame head coach Chris Petrucelli said. "Traditionally, they are one of the best teams in the Midwest. They tied us in the regular season in 1995 when we won the national champi­onship. We're playing very well right now, as opposed to last year when we peaked a little too early." The last meeting came in 1995 in a game that ended in a 2-2 tie. Otherwise, the Irish have led the series with three wins. The Irish drew a tough bracket and could face several ranked opponents prior to the Final Four. If Notre Dame 
The Observer/John Daily defeats Cincinnati, it could face LaKeysia Beene has been steady in goal for the Irish this season. sixth-ranked Nebraska or She and the rest of her teammates hope to continue their success in NCAA tournament. see NCAAS/ page 22 
Wednesday, November 12, 1997 
• fOOTBALL 
LSU provides opportunity for Irish· to save season 
By BETSY BAKER Associate Sports Editor 
The key word for the Notre Dame football team in this week's battle against LSU is opportunity. 
It is an opportunity to prove to the nation that the Irish can still play at the level at which they were predicted to be before the start of the season. 
It is an opportunity to take the "death" out of Death Valley. 
At a basic level, it is an opportunity to return their record to .500. 
"For us, it's obviously a big challenge [playing at LSUJ." Davie commented at his weekly press conference on Tuesday. "But like I've said before, it's another big opportunity, and I really like our football team." 
In order for the Irish to take advantage of the opportunity to beat the No. 11 Tigers, they must eliminate mistakes in every aspect of their game. The Tigers are a "big play defense" as Davie put it, with the ability to create costly turnovers for opponents. The Tigers' turnover rr.argin was plus-nine after seven games, ranking them sixth nationally. 
And that's not even mention­
-


• 
Men's Basketball vs. 
see page 17
The Citadel, November 17, 7:30p.m. 
~ 
ing their offense. 
Tailback Kevin Faulk, broth­er of Indianapolis Colts' run­ning back and former Heismann Trophy candidate Marshall Faulk, set SEC records as a sophomore last season for most all-purpose yards in a season with 2,104 and highest average per game with 191.3. Although Faulk has been slowed by a ham­string injury this season, he is still second in the SEC in rush­ing yards per game with 104.2 and leads the conference in all­purpose yards with 162.6. 
In addition to Faulk, the Tigers are led by junior quar­terback Herb Tyler, who is 20­4 with LSU as a starter and ranks third in the history of the SEC in passing efficiency behind Heismann Trophy win­ner Danny Wuerffel and Tennessee's Peyton Manning. 
"When you look at LSU, cer­tainly playing the 11th-ranked team in the country, playing in Tiger Stadium, you look at the NCAA statistics, and they're ranked in just about every cat­egory," Davie said. 
"We're ranked in basically no category. Certainly it's a big challenge; I think we've made a 
see LSU I page 18 
at LSU, November 15, 2:30p.m. 
vs. Cincinnati, 
November 16, 1 p.m. 
at Rutgers, 
November 15, 2 p.m. 
Fencing at Penn State Open, November 15, !6 

