

Friday, Febr:uary 14, 1997 • Vol. XXX No. 91 THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
• NOTRE DAME STUDENT GOVERNMENT ElECTION 1997 
Griffin and Nass top belated election results 

The Observer/Adam Andres 

Yesterday's voting in Keough and O'Neill Halls ran smoothly. The two 
see PRESIDENT/ page 4

dorms failed to vote Wednesday, postponing election results. 
~----------------------------------~ 
Irish Gardens Florist, located in the basement of LaFortune Student Center, anticipates its busiest day of the year today. See Accent pages 12 and 13 for a preview of the post-Valentine's Day Date Week. 
NCAA report finds admissions gap 
SMC hosts Class of 1999 parents 
By MELANIE GARMAN News Writer 
It's that time again. Parents travel from all over to join their daughters for a weekend packed with everything from dancing to relax­ing. 
This weekend marks the annual Sophomore Parents Weekend on the Saint Mary's College campus. As the women from the Class of 1999 prepare for the arrival of their parents today, they anticipate an event filled weekend that they will cherish forever. 
According to sophomore class president Katie Wehby, the planning for this weekend's event began at the end of last year. 
"At the end of our freshman year we elected a Sophomore Parents Weekend commissioner, 
see SPW/ page 4 

unior Parents Weekend 1997 
Schedule of Events 
Hospitality Room in the Sarin Room, LaFortune. 
Office of Minority Student Affairs sponsors "Biak Kofee House," avariety show in the LaFortune Ballroom. Shakespeare in Performance class presents "Love Scenes 
from Shakespeare" in the Hesburgh Library auditorium. "Stroll Down Memory Lane" gala includes live entertainment. dancing, and acash bar. North and South Domes of the Joyce Center. Entrance and coat room at Gate 10. 
-rm1 Academic workshops for each of the four colleges. 
Shenanigans, NO's singing and dancing ensemble, perform in the Snite Annenberg auditorium. 
London Reunion in the LaFortune Ballroom. Arts & Letter I Science Honors Program reception in 210 O'Shaughnessy. 
Army ROTC Reception at the Pasquerilla Center Gadet Lounge. NO Jazz Band performance in the Band Building. Air Force ROTC reception in Pasquerilla Center 
NallY ROTC reception in Pasquerilla Center Open House atthe Centerfor Social Concernsforthose in servire programs. 
4~ International Studies Program reception in the Notre Dame Room of LaFortune. Theology Department Open House in the Ubrary Lounge. 
:30 pm University President Father Edward Malloy presides over Mass in the South Dome of the Joyce Center. -1 Opm "Golden Times Dinner" in the North Dome ofthe Joyce Center. 
11Jlrn'Oh, The Places We'll Go' bllJildl in1he North Dome of the~ Center featuring speaker Father Theodore Hesburgh. ·· 
By DEREK BETCHER Assistant News Editor 
With 51.6 percent of the vote, Matt Griffin and Erek Nass were named student body president and vice president last night. Two-hundred and thirty-one votes separated them from the other ticket, Matt Szabo and Mary Gillard. 
The results were released after counting bal­lots from yesterday's rescheduled voting in Keough Hall and O'Neill Halls. The make-up was held following Wednesday's surprise announce­ment that a series of hall government mistakes had kept the two dorms from participating in the runoff election. 
Each of the candidates agreed that the post­ponment was nerve-racking. "The last 48 hours have been just an emotional roller-coaster," Griffm admitted. "But it's defmitely worth the wait," Nass said. "It's a great feeling." As an immediate goal for their infant adminis-
Gf 

3460 
&write im. 

Disparity present between athletes and student body 
By JOHN DeBOY Assistant News Editor 
Last week, when Irish head coach Bob Davie introduced Notre Dame football's class of 2001, much was made of the fact that Grant Irons, a future Irish linebacker and first-team USA Today All-American, currently holds a 3.87 high school GPA. 
But at Notre Dame, considered the 16th most selective national universi­ty by U.S. News & World Report, such an achievement seems consid­erably less extraordinary, if not com­monplace. 
That fact -coupled with admis­sions statistics released by the NCAA in June -seems to suggest that a certain disparity exists between the high school academic achievements of Notre Dame stu-
.--------------, dent athletes and those of the student body as a whole. 
According to Kevin Rooney, Notre Dame's director of admis­sions, the average c o m b i n e d Rooney Scholastic Assessment Test (SAT) score for entering Notre Dame freshmen from 1992-1995 was approximately 1220 out of a possible 1600. (That aver­age, however, has since climbed to 1303 for the 1996 entering class as a result of score re-centering.) 
Additionally, U.S. News & World Report's guide to "America's Best Colleges" reports that 82 percent of those in Notre Dame's 1995 entering class finished in the top 10 percent of their respective high school classes. 

However, the 1996 NCAA Division I Graduation-Rates Report paints a slightly different picture for Notre Dame student athletes. The NCAA report, which provides college admissions statistics for scholarship athletes in Notre Dame football, baseball, men's and women's basket­ball, and men's and women's track and cross country, indicates that, on average, Notre Dame student ath­letes score significantly lower on col­lege admissions tests than do their peers in the student body at-large. 
According to the NCAA report, entering scholarship athletes in Notre Dame men's sports attained 
see ADMISSIONS I page 6 
~-~-~ 
---~~~-~-­

page 2 The Observer • INSIDE Friday, February 14, 1997 
• INSIDE COLUMN 

Goats, orgies, Valentine's Day 
well, its February 14 again -the day when you and your "luv-muffin" or "schmoopy-poo" can cuddle sweetly in each others arms while all around float red­and-white-colored visions of eternal bliss. 
It makes you want to 
Heather MacKenzie 
puke, doesn't it? 

News Copy Editor
Although I have been known to frequently resound my bitter Valentine's Day sentiments everywhere from the halls of DeBartolo to the middle of North Quad, this year I have vowed to stop the madness. Expressing a hatred of Valentine's Day has become almost as uncouth as asserting the horrors of dining hall cuisine or debating the aesthetic value of Stepan Center; it has all been discussed before. Many, many times. 
Valentine's Day hasn't always been so laden with romantic declarations of love devotion. In fact, the forebearer of our modern Valentine's Day was the Roman celebration of Lupercalia, an all-out bonanza in commemoration of pagan lust. Pretty cool, huh? 
In ancient Rome, Lupercalia was celebrated on the Ides of February as a fertility festival. The priests of Lupercus would parade around town wearing nothing but a few goatskins, sacrifice some goats and one random dog, smear them­selves with the blood gleaned from the killings, and then proceed to run around with a goatskin thong called a "februa." In the meantime, women would voluntarily place themselves in strategic locations so that the priests could later strike them with this skin-covered thing. It was thought then that this thrashing would ensure fertility and easy childbirth. It is thought now that oysters and drugs are much better options. 
Lupercalia was tamed down later on: around 256 AD some party-poopers in the conservative right thought that perhaps there should be some other activities on this holiday besides puppy­killing. Two Christian martyrs, both named St. Valentine, both beaten and beheaded while on respective treks to Rome, were chosen as good substitutes for the immoral revelry. Don't ask me how these two guys, being priests and all, were associated with the celebration of fertility, but they were, and now their name is forever immortalized on about a zillion heart-shaped boxes of chocolates. If you are going to be beheaded, that's one way to be remembered. 
This whole Lupercalia thing seems like a pret­ty good time. Okay, so leave out the animal murders and the random floggings, but this matchmaking ritual isn't a bad idea, especially when you attend school in the Land of the Frozen Catholics, a happy place where you are automatically bombarded with questions of wed­ding plans if seen holding hands, eating, walk­ing, conversing, or looking in the general direc­tion of any member of the opposite sex. I figure that if even a few couples at Notre Dame stop getting stared at as lepers by the largely single­and-bitter majority, then perhaps new couples could form, thus alleviating the need for anom­alies like "dating workshops." 
Yes, my last positive memory of Valentine's Day was hand-selecting Snoopy cards for my third-grade class with my mother. I have never, ever been in any sort of romantic relationship on February 14. This year I am going to fight the urge to be bitter when assaulted with cutesy candy hearts and nauseatingly adorable cupids. Leave the couples on campus to revel in their pink cloud of Valentine euphoria and f"md your own alternatives in the face of LoveFest '97. My advice? When in South Bend, do as the Roman do. Just be sure it's over before parietals. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 



News Graphics Bridger O'Connor Jon King Sean Smith Production 
Sports Jamie Heisler Joe Cavaro Brad Prendergast Viewpoint Heather Cocks 
Ayana Fakhir Lab Tech Accent 
Kevin Dalum Dan Cichalski 
• WORLD AT A GLANCE 

Karen rebel base overrun, insurgents flee into jungle 
BANGKOK, Thailand .------r----..,~-------, Thai television and border residents 
Bearing down on Burma's most inveterate insurgents, government soldiers captured the ethnic Karen rebel base on Thursday only to find it destroyed and abandoned. 
Earlier Thursday, the insurgents set fire to the headquarters of the Karen National Union, then retreat­ed into the jungle, a Karen officer said. 
"We didn't want to leave the Burmese anything," said Col. Isaac, an officer in the Karen National Union. Like many Karen, he use.s only one name. 
About 500 Karen National Union troops had been struggling to hold Teakaplaw, in eastern Burma, against 1,500 Burmese government troops, Isaac told The Associated Press by telephone. 
Knowing they could not hold out against superior numbers, the rebels fell back rather than lose men. '.'We have completely changed our tac­tics," Isaac said. "We are fighting a hit-and-run guerrilla war now." 
Gingrich can't stop term limit rejection 
WASHINGTON 
The House overwhelmingly rejected a proposed constitutional amendment Wednesday to slap term limits on members of Congress after a debate marked by debilitating infighting among supporters. The vote was 217­211, 69 votes shy of the two-thirds nec­essary for approval of the measure to limit lawmakers to 12-years in office­

and fewer than it gained two years ago. "They're eating their own, despite the efforts of House Speaker Newt Gingrich. It's just bizarre," GOP Rep. Christopher Shays, a term limits opponent, exulted as supporters quarreled among themselves over whether six years, eight years or 12 years should be set as a limit for House service. In the end, none of the proposals came close to amassing the two-thirds needed to prevail, leaving the issue dead for the foreseeable future. The final vote, for 12-year term limits to be applied beginning after ratification by the states, drew the support of 180 Republicans and 37 Democrats. 
Source: Jackson, wife have baby boy 
LOS ANGELES 
Is the self-proclaimed King of Pop a papa? KNBC-TV, citing hospital sources, said Michael Jackson's wife gave birth to a baby boy Wednesday at Cedars-Sinai Medical Center. However, a source close to the hospital who requested anonymity told The Associated Press that Debbie Rowe Jackson had been admitted to the hospital but had not given birth by late afternoon. Her due date is Valentine's Day. Medical center officials and Jackson rep­resentatives said they could not confirm that Mrs. Jackson was even at the hospital. "If that's the case, I'm not aware of it," said Ron Wise, spokesman for Cedars­Sinai. A spokesman for Jackson's MJJ Productions said he knew nothing about Mrs; Jackson's status. "If and when Mr. and Mrs. Jackson have something to announce, they will tell us," Bob Jones said. Security at the hospital was tight, with at least six uniformed guards in the lobby. Others stood watch in the third-floor maternity ward. 

reported that Burmese troops had occupied the burned-out base. The 100 villagers who lived at Teakaplaw have joined the nearly 3,000 Karen who already had fled to Thailand. 
CHINA A government offensive began late Tuesday against the last two areas in Burma controlled ·by the Karen National Union, which has been fight­ing for autonomy on behalf of the Karen people since 1948. 
The government has thrown nearly 5,000 troops supported by artillery against the Karen National Union's 2, 700 men along a 225-mile front. 
Thai television reported that Burma was preparing to attack Karen refugees camps inside Thailand. Mortars report­edly were fired at one camp across the border in the Teakaplaw region, fore­ing thousands of refugees to flee. 
The fighting comes two weeks after cross-border raids by a Karen splinter group supported by the government against three camps of refugees loyal to the Karen National Union inside 
APNJm. J. Castello Thailand. 
Girl slides off snowy road, dies 
MARISSA, Ill. 
It was snowing, and their 16-year-old daughter was out on the road. So Kevin and Jane Laumbattus set out to find her. They did -only to see her killed in a fiery wreck as her car slid into the path of a pickup truck. She had been driving for only a month. "It happened so quickly, I still don't understand it," her father said. Amanda, her cousin Emily Canning and a friend, Laura Singenstreu, had set out Feb. 7 for the Wal-Mart in Sparta to buy a gift. After it began snowing, her parents started worrying about her lack of experience behind the wheel. sa they headed that way. "It was snowing like crazy," Laumbattus said. A few miles later, they realized they were right behind Amanda. Within seconds, the pickup and Amanda's car had collided. Laumbattus -a volunteer firefighter -found himself pulling the girls from the burning car. "I've done this many times but never thought I'd have to do it with my own daughter," he said. "It's the hardest thing I ever did in my life, lay­ing her body down." Two other men stopped to help, one of them breaking a window with his elbow to get Emily. Amanda died at a hospital. 
Simpson's defenders join JonBenet case 
• 

BOULDER. Colo. 
Two key members of O.J. Simpson's defense have been enlisted to help prosecutors in the JonBenet Ramsey murder mystery, officials said today. Henry Lee, a foren­sic scientist who heads the Connecticut State Police's crime laboratory, and DNA expert Barry Scheck will help Boulder investigators on DNA, crime scene analysis and other matters, District Attorney Alex Hunter said. "We know where we're headed. We know this case is going to be solved," the prosecutor said at a rare news confer­ence on the case. "I can think of cases in the past where I didn't have that feeling. We're going to solve this case, but we're going to our way." The 6-year-old beauty queen was found strangled in the basement of her fami­ly's home Dec. 26, and authorities have released few details about the investigation. Hunter would not elabo­rate on the list of suspects, but he offered a warning to the girl's murderer. 
• SOUTH BEND WEATHER • NATIONAL WEATHER 

The AccuWeather® forecast for noon, Friday, Feb. 14. 
Lines separate high temperature zones for the day. 
,, 
...~ . 
Mond~y 
i) wB6 24 Tue~p'ay 26 



HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT CLOUDY CLOUOY 
Vlot As.oc/llltJd Pmss
,(f<.\""'..., 

Anchorage 32 24 Kennebunk 34 30 Providence 38 37
.-,-.-· 
' 

Boston 36 36 Miami 83 73 St. Louis 34 22 
Chicago 32 20 New Orleans St 40 San Fran 66 45
~ ~ c::::1 

Helena 46 32 New York 52 37 Seattle 48 40 Honolulu 82 65 Philadelphia 41 36 Washington 38 34 
Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy 

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 

Friday, February 14, 1997 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Outla-w: Gender, ethnic splits pose challenge to ND 


Flakes, Digestives, Teas 
Across from the Linebacker 





Who Loves Your Papa ... MOST. 

Notre Dame 
(Formerly Cactus Jacks) 
•
The dorm which purchases the most Papa John~ items between Feb. 14 & March 31 will receive free pizza for their dorm~ dance, plus SSOO for the dorm to spend at their discretion 

•
Top S leaders will be posted every Friday in The Observer 

•See 
Hall President for details 


r-------,r.-------~r-------,r-------,r-----~-,
II Lenten  111  II  I I  Lat  .  I  
II  II  II  I  
I I I  .  /  . · ....... .·.. ·· +tax  II II II I I  .. ·. .• • .. .  ·  ..· . /> r)•..599  II II II II  ·  ·  ·. •··•· ·.·.  II II I I  .  .. ··...  I I La I I II I I  ng I 1) I I I  

L-------~L--~----~L-------~L-------~L-------~ 
By ANDREA BOWLBY 
News Writer 
Last year, two Notre Dame undergraduate students sought the advice of Iris Outlaw, the director of Multicultural Student Affairs, after a professor alleged­ly used a racial slur during a lec­ture. 
The students considered filing a complaint with the ombudsperson but were hesitant to do so because they were the only minority students in the class and did not want to be per­ceived as troublemakers. Outlaw counseled the students, but the incident left her disturbed. "Surely some of their fellow white students were offended, too," she asked. "Why didn't they file a complaint?" 
Outlaw was the featured speaker at yesterday's Gender Studies lecture, where she addressed the concerns of minority faculty and students struggling to find a niche within an institution often regarded as a white, male bastion. 
She offered her experiences as an African American woman as a starting point for discussion. According to Outlaw, the demands on women and minori­ty faculty at Notre Dame exceed those placed upon their col­leagues because in addition to their official job descriptions, they must serve as role models and confidants for minority stu­dents. 
She also talked about chal­lenges particular to women, not­ing how difficult it is for a woman to network and establish professional contacts. "We're not wheeling and dealing on the golf course or in the men's bath­rooms," Outlaw said. 
Outlaw suggested that women form support groups in order to voice their frustrations. She mentioned how this summer she began hosting luncheons for other women of color on the Notre Dame faculty. These lun­cheons provided a forum for the women to commiserate with each other, but more important­ly, to share their triumphs. 
"We talked about how we could help our students be suc­cessful and how, as women, we define success differently than many male professors on cam­pus." Outlaw said that the cama­raderie fostered by the lun­cheons helped her feel ready to tackle the current academic year. 
But if being a minority at a largely homogeneous university poses a challenge to faculty members, imagine the burdens placed upon the student. All col­lege students grapple with issues as daunting and emotionally volatile as choosing a career path, deciding whether or not to experiment with sex and drugs, and questioning one's sexual ori­entation. It is in this context that minority students often confront a myriad of other social issues that are compounded by the 


1643 Edison Rd. South Bend 

All Catnpus Contest Beginning Today, February 14 thru March 31 
•Compete 
against other dorms (of the same sex) based on dollar average per resident 

•One 
male & one female winner will be declared 


243-1400 

demographics at Notre Dame, Outlaw said. . 
Outlaw said that dating, although an anxiety for many students, can be more difficult for students of color because there is a smaller pool of people on campus who share their eth­nicity. 
Minorities may also worry that their fellow students perceive them as less intelligent someone who was admitted to the University to fill a quota. 
Outlaw also pointed out that minorities may not be accus­tomed to the dorm lifestyle. For instance, Outlaw said that alco­hol is not normally a part of the social scene for minorities. Minorities may also dress differ­ently than the typical Notre Dame student. One would guess that the way one dresses would have ceased to be an issue after high school graduation, but one student said that his hall mates constantly "remark about how I dress even though I don't ask for 
their comments." Socio-eco­
nomic differences can also 
serve to divide the students. 
Minorities must also battle 
their own "personal variances," 
Outlaw said. 

A student of color may have a 
problem they want to talk 
about, but he or she may be 
reluctant to seek out a rector or 
a resident assistant because the 
student reasons, "If I talk to 
them, will they understand 
me?" 

Outlaw quoted statistics that 
show that Notre Dame's overall 
graduation rate is 96 percent, 
but its minority graduation rate 
drops off precipitously to 7 4per­
cent. 

"What are we doing wrong?" 
she asks. In order to start 
271-1177 

St. Mary's
(North Village Mall) 
271-PAPA 
Hours: 
Mon thru Thurs: I I a.m. -I a.m. Fri thru Sat: I 1 a.m. -3 a.m. sunday: 12 p.m.-1 a.m. 

The Observer/Adam Andres 
In her lecture yesterday, Iris Outlaw examined the struggles of minority students and faculty. 
breaking down the gender and ethnic divides on campus, Outlaw said that the University's undergraduate curriculum needs to be more inclusive. Professors need to better incorporate the diverse experiences that each student brings to the classroom. 
She suggested that professors ask students to bring in any arti­cles or books relating to discus­sion that especially speak to them. 
She also praised the curricu­lum improvements that have already been implemented including the African American Studies concentration and the Asian Studies program. "Our voices are becoming louder." 
page 4 
SPW 
continued from page 1 
Alia Hawkins, who then gath­ered a committee to help her with the plans," said Webby. "Alia reported to the sopho­more board every week with her committee's progress and their efforts ran smoothly the entire year." 
"I hope that the weekend is as successful as our planning has been, and that it is a trea­surable experience for both the parents and their daugh­ters," said Hawkins, chair of the SPW committee. 
There are a wide range of events that highlight the weekend, including a faculty open house Saturday morning from 9:30 to 11 a.m. in the Le Mans Hall lobby. Parents will get a chance to meet with professors of all departments and majors, and will have the opprotunity to ask any ques­tions they may have. 
For all of those workout buffs, Saturday afternoon will offer an open gym at Angela Athletic Facility and an open swim in Regina Hall, followed by Mass at the Church of 

----~---­

The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS ents and their daughters will travel downtown to the 


President

Century Center where there will be a presidential recep­
continued from page 1

tion with a speech by SMC President Will-iam Hickey tration, Griffin and Nass listed improving commu­
beginning at 7 p.m. The 
nication between student government and the stu­evening will continue with a dent body. They also plan to implement reformdinner dance until 1 a.m. 
committee proposals as soon as they can. 

The weekend will come to 
Until Griffin and Nass officially assume their an end Sunday morning with a offices on April1, they will be involved in a transi­
continental breakfast in 
tion period with the current Seth Miller!Megan
Stapleton Lounge from 8 to 10 
Murray administration. 

a.m. "I remember how nervous I was," Miller said. "I
Students of the sophomore 
look forward to working with them." 

class are very anxious for the "It was a tough race, and I want to wish Mattarrival of their parents. "I am and Erek the best for next year," Szabo said. Heexcited to spend some quality cited his platform's focus on student rights as an
time with my parents and 
issue he hopes Griffin and Nass will address in the
have them meet all of my 
coming year. 

friends," said Madeline 
"Those are valid points," Griffin later said.
Carpinelli. "After having been "That's why it was such a close race. So much of at Saint Mary's for a year, my what [Szabo and Gillard] believe in about standing The Observer/Kevin Oalum life is pretty well established 
up for students, we regret not having more of that Student-body president-elect Matt Griffin celebratesand I want my parents to see on our platform." moments after learning the election results. 
that." 

Yesterday's voting ran smoothly, according to said.
According to Webby, this 
election officers. "Today, everything was fine. It is Standford Hall had the campus' best turnout,
year's Sophomore Parents 
just unfortunate that it had to come down to this," with 76 percent of its residents voting. Repeating 
Weekend appears to have a 
said election committee chair Jen Dovidio. its performance in the primary election, Planner
higher attendance record 
In hindsight, the decision to allow Keough and Hall had the campus' lowest turnout, this timethan previous years. 
O'Neill to vote holds no controversy. With a com­with 40 percent. 
"My goal for the weekend is bined 124 votes for Szabo/Gillard and 122 votes Compared to last Friday's primary, almost twice for all of the parents and stu­for Griffin!Nass, Golf Quad's much-awaited ballot as many ofT-campus students voted in the runofT.
dents to have a good time and totals did not sway the election's final outcome. With 44 of 1,650 students voting, off-campusenjoy themselves in a relaxed "We feel we handled it the right way," Dovidio turnout reached nearly 3 percent. 
setting," says Webby. 
9tn tk taua (H, ~ad~ ca1t flat ra

.r-------------------------------------------~---~---------------------­
Friday, February 14, 1997 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS page 5 
• SECURITY BEAT 
Thefts in lots continue Foley critiques modern democracy 
By BRAD McDONALD Society, Uncivil Government, By LIZ FORAN during day and night, Hurley News Writer and Democratization," in order Editor-in-Chief added. to "think through some more 
The break-ins have centered According to professor discontents." 
Three more vehicles were in the D2 south lot, an on-cam­Michael Foley, "The question is The "Mischief Faction" in broken into in the past three pus student lot where two of how to achieve popular govern­Foley's title refers to number days while parked in campus the recent thefts occurred. The ment without creating a grieved ten of the Federalist Papers, lots on campus lots, said Chuck other break-in was in Cl lot society." He stated that there is written by James Madison. He Hurley, assistant director of behind the Joyce Center, which a serious problem with the con­also frequently quoted many Notre Dame Security. is used for off-campus student cept of the "New Democracy" influential people in the history 
The string of recent thefts has as well as event parking. All and its inability to deal with of democracy, including frustrated both students and victims were students. mass society and populism. Aristotle and Tocqueville, and Security, which has been The recent break-ins, two Michael Foley is associate more contemporary characters unable to prevent the thefts. cars which were parked next to professor of politics and direc­such as Dahl. 
"We've done 24 hour a day each other in D2, happened tor of the Peace and World Foley led a strained question surveillance for a month at a sometime between midnight on Order Studies sub-concentra­and answer session with the time and nothing happens," Tuesday and 11:55 p.m tion at the Catholic University audience in which he respond­Hurley said. "We stop, and a Wednesday. The Cl break-in of America. He spoke yester­ed to questions concerning sev­week later there are more." occurred sometime between day at Notre Dame in a lecture eral contradictions in his argu­No pattern has emerged, 10:45 a.m. and 4 p.m. entitled, "The Myth of the ment and the lack of correla­
either, with thefts occurring Wednesday. 'Mischief of Faction' Civil tion between the main points of his lecture. He admitted that Foley concluded by stating he presented a strong critique that it was important to ask of modern democracy but did "not how to quash mass soci­
This weekend SUB Presents ROMEO & JULIET not offer an answer. In eties, but how to control them; response to a question about not depoliticize, or make moreThurs 10:30pn1 the title, Foley claimed, "I like harmless, but channel their 
the title but I'm afraid that it power."
Fri, Sat 8 & 10:30pn1 Feb 13 -15 
Diamond Price Quotations 219 I 246-1939 
Thinking of purchasing a diamond? Choose wisely, with information in our complimentary book, Diamonds Magnified, and clear advice about how to select an affordable diamond. 
The Diamond Authoriey®
A Division ofJohn M. Marshall's, Inc. 
KeyBank Building, Suite #101 South Bend, Indiana 46601 
is now accepting applications for the 
1997-98 General Board 
Any full-time undergraduate or graduate student at Notre Dame or Saint Mary's is encouraged to apply. Please submit_ a three page statement ofintent with a resume to Brad Prendergast by Friday, Feb. 14 at 5 p.m. For questions about the application process or for more information about any position, call The Observer at 631-4542. 


NEWS EDITOR Applicants should have news reporting, writing and editing skills. The News Editor man­ages a staff of editors and reporters, generates story and series ideas and is responsible for the content of the news section each day. 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR Applicants should have editorial, writing and editing skills and an abiliry to deal with the public. The Viewpoint Editor manages a staff of copy and layout editors and columnists and decides what letters will run each day. 
SPORTS EDITOR Applicants should have sports reporting, writing and editing skills. The Sports Editor man­ages a staff of editors and reporters, generates story ideas and special sections, arranges travel accommodations for reporting trips and is responsible for the content of the sports section each day. 
ACCENT EDITOR Applicants should have features writing and editing experience. The Accent Editor man­ages editors, reporters and columnists, generates story ideas, and is responsible for the con­tent of the Accent pages each day. 
PHOTO EDITOR Applicants should have photography and developing experience. The Photo Editor man­ages a staff of photographers and lab technicians and must work closely with News, Sports and Accent department editors in assigning photographs. 
ST. MARY'S EDITOR Any full-time undergraduate student at Saint Mary's is encouraged to apply. The editor manages Saint Mary's department heads, coordinates coverage with Notre Dame staff, gen­erates story ideas on the Saint Mary's campus and is responsible for the Observer office at Saint Mary's. 
ADVERTISING MANAGER Applicants should be business majors with management and sales skills. The Advertising Manager oversees an assistant and a staff of account executives and is responsible for gener­ating advertising revenue. 
AD DESIGN MANAGER Applicants should have solid Macintosh experience and knowledge of QuarkXpress, Aldus Freehand and Adobe Photoshop. The Ad Design Manager oversees a staff of designers, works closely with advertising and marketing departments and is responsible for the design and layout of advertisements. 
PRODUCTION MANAGER Applicants should have solid Macintosh computer experience, knowledge of QuarkXpress and design, layout and newspaper production experience. The Production Manager over­sees a staff of night production designers and works closely with department staff on layout and design. 
SYSTEMS MANAGER Applicants should have solid Macintosh computer experience and knowledge of computer networking. The Systems Manager maintains and updates the Macintosh network and printers and is responsible for training the entire Observer staff on the use of the system. 
CONTROLLER Applicant must be a junior accounting major at Notre Dame or Saint Mary's. The Controller is responsible for preparing The Observer's operating budget and taxes, accounts payable, cost-tracking and order transaction duties. 

page 6 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS Friday, February 14, 1997 
According to Rooney, howev­others don't." letes are getting any breaks." averaged 927 on the SAT from er, the lower numbers are not Rooney made it clear, howev­Karwoski, whose job as direc­1992-1995, while football play­
Admissions 
necessarily an indication of er, that not just anyone with tor of compliance is to ensure ers averaged 1023. lowered admissions standards, exceptional athletic talent who that the University remains in Interestingly enough, men's
continued from page 1 
but are rather a reflection of meets NCAA minimum academ­accordance with NCAA regula­basketball players at the University's desire to bring ic standards is admissible to tions, also discussed the role of Georgetown averaged 784 onthe following average combin.ed 
a number of different talents to Notre Dame. The admissions the athletic department in the the SAT during the same four­SAT scores from 1992-1995: 
894 (football), 1054 (baseball), each entering class. office, he said, screens appli­admissions process. year period. "The whole concept of lower­cants carefully to determine "One of the first things that a One additional peculiarity
1035 (basketball), and 1148 
ing standards isn't really the who is capable of handling the coach will look at in the recruit­that stands out among the(cross country and track). In question," Rooney said. "Each academic rigors of a Notre ing process is the academics, to admissions statistics of Notre
Notre Dame women's sports, 
year we're going to have about Dame' education. make sure that certain require­Dame student athletes is thethe NCAA reported the follow­9,000 applicants for 1,900 "We work with the coaching ments are met," Karwoski said. fact that scores differ signifi­ing SAT averages for entering spaces, and the overwhelming staffs to find those individuals "We ask our coaches to send cantly from sport to sport.
scholarship athletes during the majority of the applicants are who can compete in a sport and transcripts to the admissions While the men's cross countrysame period: 989 (basketball) qualified. We're trying to put who, in our best judgment, office. Ultimately, though, the and track teams averaged a rel­
and 1085 (cross country and 
together an entire class that have a reasonable chance of admissions office determines atively impressive 1148 on thetrack). 
reflects the talents that are succeeding here academically," who gets in and who doesn't." SAT, the football team aver­
Notre Dame students have 

important to the University. Rooney said. Yet despite the fact that Notre aged a considerably lower 894. 
expressed a wide range of reac­Obviously, football, for exam­Additionally, Mike Karwoski, Dame student athletes tend to But, according to Hooney,
tions to the NCAA statistics. 
ple, is important at Notre director of compliance for the produce lower average scores such a trend is not unique toSome, such as Notre Dame 
Dame. But we also work with Notre Dame athletic depart­on admissions tests than do Notre Dame. 
junior Lauren Mack, were dis­the music department on appli­ment, insisted that athletes who their peers in the student body "That's because of the pool of appointed by the figures. 
cants with exceptional musical could potentially fill an immedi­as a whole, Rooney pointed out applicants who are out there,""I find it disappointing," Mack talent. ate need on one of the that they still rank among the Rooney said. "At any school you 
said, "primarily because at 
"We're not setting an arbi­University's athletic teams are highest-scoring student athletes would find similar differences." 
Notre Dame they make such a trary standard and saying that not given more leeway in the in Division I. In addition to lower admis­big deal out of saying that ath­you have to jump over the hur­admissions process than are "In Division I football we are sions statistics, the NCAAletes meet the same standards dle to get in," Rooney added. other student athletes. clearly in the top seven or report also indicated that schol­that everyone else does." 
"We're looking at the whole Karwoski offers Randy Moss eight," Rooney said. "One rea­arship athletes at Notre DameOthers see the less impressive class." -a 1994 first-team USA Today son for that is that we don't tend to post lower graduationadmissions statistics as a neces­Rooney also indicated that the All-American wide receiver have an academic curriculum rates than the student body at­sary part of competing in big­admissions office uses a sepa­coveted by then-head football that provides majors that don't large. For the classes thattime intercollegiate athletics. 
rate admissions procedure for coach Lou Holtz-as an exam­require a lot of work. Some entered the University between
"Personally, it doesn't offend 

me," said Notre Dame fresh­student athletes, some of whom ple. schools, particularly large state 1986 and 1989, 94 percent of would be admitted to Notre "Randy Moss is a perfect schools, see it as part of their those in the student body as a
man Chris Reyes. "They're ath­Dame regardless of their athlet­example," Karwoski said. "He mission to provide physical whole graduated from Notreletes, and they're really coming 
to Notre Dame to play sports; ic ability, and some of whom was all-world in several sports, education teachers for the Dame, while only 85 percent of although, for most of them, get­would not be otherwise admit­and especially in football. He state. We don't have that. Most Fighting Irish athletes earned ted. met NCAA minimums, and he majors here require a truly their diplomas. 
ting a good education is part of "In some ways this is a sepa­was permitted to sign a letter of dedicated effort on the part of Karwoski suggested that an
the reason they're here. The 
rate admissions procedure," intent to attend Notre Dame, the students." increase in the number of play­school gives athletes a break ­Rooney said. "With football, for but ultimately he didn't meet NCAA statistics support ers who leave school early for
and a good education -in 
example, we have about 20-25 certain requirements set forth Rooney's claim. At Florida professional sports has con­return for the athletic talents 
that they bring to the school." grants-in-aid available each by the Notre Dame admissions State, for example, none of the tributed to the lower gradua­David Hill, a Notre Dame year, and we have a lot of office and wasn't admitted." six major athletic teams aver­tion rates among scholarship junior, feels similarly. · potential prospects competing Moss eventually signed with aged higher than 993 on the athletes. 
"I don't think (the lower for those spots. · Florida State, and later ended SAT, and football players aver­"With college athletics in gen­admissions statistics) are fair, "Of those athletes who end up up at Division I-AA Marshall aged 791 from 1992-1995. eral, when you look at basket­but I think it does benefit the coming to Notre Dame," Rooney after violating a probation sen­At those schools considered ball, baseball, football, and school," Hill said. "And I think continued, "some would get in tence by failing a drug test. Notre Dame's academic peers, even hockey, those are sports we'll have to keep doing it to if they applied through the reg­Said Karwoski, "Compared to NCAA admissions statistics where students can leave early maintain the caliber of the foot­ular admissions procedure and student athletes at other were comparable to those of for the pros," Karwoski said. 
some would not. Some need schools with big-time pro­Notre Dame student athletes. At "And that can really affect theball program and the prestige 
of the school." their athletic ability to get in; grams, I don't think our ath-Duke, men's basketball players graduation rates." 
Arthur Andersen is proud to announce the follo~ing University of Notre Da1ne and Saint Mary's College students have accepted e~nploy~nent offers to join us after graduation. 
David Allred, Washington, DC Heidi Altman, Denver Brett Barlag, Washington, DC Brian Blank, San Francisco Cara Buchanan, Washington, DC David Bucolo, Chicago Michael Buhrfiend, Chicago Matthew Campbell, Denver Virginia Carnesale, San Francisco Leigh Anne Carroll, Chicago Christopher Dominello, Philadelphia Anthony Dragone, New York Jonathan Edwards, Pittsburgh Christopher Eldridge, San Francisco Timothy Foley, Boston Julie Gahm, Boston Christopher Gerosa, New York Christina Giel, Chicago 
J. Patrick Gorman, Chicago Jennifer Green, Detroit Ryan Guillen, Chicago Kevin Haggard, New York Martin Hellmer, Phoenix~ Tucson Lesley Herring, Chicago Melissa Kearney, Chicago Daniel Koth, Milwaukee John LaBarca, New York Peter Lenardos, Milwaukee Mark Loring, Boston Curtis Miller, Pittsburgh Mark Moskowitz, San Francisco Andrew Murray, Chicago Chris Neidlinger, Indianapolis John O'Brien, Washington, DC Mark O'Carroll, Chicago Michael O'Connor, Washington, DC Megan O'Neill, Milwaukee Rebecca Pinkley, Seattle Jason Prescott, Minneapolis Katherine Purcell, Chicago 



ARTHUR

ANDERSEN 
Dawn Rice, Chicago Amy Rubie, Chicago Nicole Ruttura, New York Michael Ryan, New York Rosann Schultz, Kansas City Michael Schwartz, Atlanta Stacey Segan, Chicago Meghan Shannon, Chicago Meredith Siegfried, Houston Thomas Skattum, Chicago Carrie Stewart, Chicago Darren Strotman, Chicago 
Christine Tonry, New York Beth Townsend, Chicago 
Allyson Troupe, Boston Henry True, Portland 
Shannon Virtue, Chicago 
Tyler Weber, Minneapolis Jennifer Yale, Chicago 
Friday, February 14, 1997 
The Observer • NATIONAL NEWS page 7 
King family: Trial would ease pain of unknown 
By PATRICIA MAYS Associated Press Wri rer 
ATLANTA 

Afraid that the truth about the Rev. Martin Luther King Jr.'s assassination will die with James Earl Ray, King's family is asking that he be given a trial to answer the questions that have haunted them for 30 years. 
"The lack of a satisfactory resolution to questions surrounding the assassina­tion of Martin Luther King Jr. has been a source of continuing pain and hard­ship to our family," Dexter King, a son of the civil rights leader, said at a news conference Tuesday with his two sis­ters, his brother and his mother, Caretta Scott King. "Every effort must be made to determine the truth." 
Over the years, King said, "because of the painful nature of this tragedy, we have reluctantly ignored it, stayed away as to who was responsible. A 1978 con­from it.'' But now, with Ray dying from gressional report concluded Ray shot cirrhosis of the liver in a Nashville, King but said a St. Louis-based conspir­Tenn., prison, they want the full truth acy of racial bigots was behind the slay-
known, King said.  ing.  
"It was time to come  Dexter King said that  
forward, make a state­ he has always believed  
ment about this, which has haunted us for years. If Mr. Ray does not pull through, this  '}think that, by having the trial, a lot of information will be  that others · were involved in his father's death, and that a trial may even exonerate  
will die with him," King said. Ray, 68, pleaded guilty to killing King  shared that not only will vindicate Mr. Ray but point to others.'  Ray. "I think that, by having the trial, a lot of information will be shared that not only 
and was sentenced to  will vindicate Mr. Ray  
99 years in prison but  but point to others,"  
later recanted his con- Dexter King  he said.  
fession.  After the news con­ 

Ever since a sniper's bullet cut down ference, Ray's brother, Jerry, told King on the balcony at a Memphis motel MSNBC: "I really appreciate them ask­in 1968, several theories have surfaced ing for a trial for James, and I'm sure the whole King family, just like the Ray family and the rest of the American public, wants the truth to come out once and for all.'' 
In order for Ray to get a trial, his attorneys must prove there is new evi­dence that could exonerate him. Next week, a judge in Memphis, Tenn., will hear arguments from Ray's attorneys for new scientific tests on the rifle believed used in the assassination. 
John Campbell, a Shelby County, Tenn., assistant district attorney, said that even if the tests are conducted, there is plenty of reason not to give Ray a trial. 
"The guilty plea Ray is under has been examined seven times by other courts and affirmed every time," Campbell said. "He went into court and told the jury he was guilty. They con­victed him." 

--~cu Ure ~ 
r 
I I I I I I I I I I 
w 
a: 
w 


Weekender Zone Fare Certificate 
Roundtrip Ratec; 
Within Zone Aor B  $129 roundtrip  
Between Zone A & Zone B  $189 roundtrip  
Between Zone A&Zone C  $269 roundtrip  
Between Zone B& Zone C  $189 roundtrip  
Within Zone C  $109 roundtrip  

Not valid for travel to/from IUCO/AK/HL 

To enjoy these low Weekender Zone Fares -plus earn Mileage Plus® departing on Saturday. with return travel on flights the Monday following departure. or 
-Use Fare Basis_Code: VE14NSTU 
I

the Tuesday following departure if the passenger is traveling between zones A-C.
credit on your trip -just call your travel prolessiona\ or United to 

. VE14NSTD (zones A·C)
Class of Service: Vclass. (Seats are capacity controlled and must be available in the 
reserve your flight and redeem your certificate. 

required booking inventory at the time reservations are confirmed.) 
-Use Ticket Designator: AV0027 
I

To receive these savings, use your MasterCard® card to purchase an 
Advance Purchase: Within 24 hrs of making reservations. at least 14 days prior to departure. 
-Endorsement Box: VALID UA ONLY/Non-Ref/No ltin Changes
E-TicketsM between Feb 1, 1997 and May 15, 1997 for travel between Min/Max Stay: Saturday-night stay minimum. RETURN TRAVEL MUST BE THE IMME­
2. Reier to ARC Industry Agents' Handbook, section 6.0 lor details:
Feb 15. 1997 and June 6. 1997. Outbound travel good on flights depart­DIATE MONDAY FOLLOWING DEPARTURE. AN EXCEPTION FOR TRAVEL BETWEEN ZONES 
I

3. Failure to comply wrrh promotion guidelines could resuK in debit memo. Mileage Plus Accrual: Discounted travel is eligible for Mileage Plus credit. 
A-C. RETURN CAN ALSO BE THE IMMEDIATE TUESDAY FOLLOWING DEPARTURE.
ing on Saturday. Return travel good on flights returning the Monday follow­
ing departure (An exception lor travel between zones A-C. Return travel may Ticketing: E-Ticketing only (electronic ticketing service) 
I

UAl ATO!CTO licketing Instructions: See S*PMO/AV0027
also be on the Tuesday following departure) 

Taxes!Service Charges: All fees, lal<eS and su!Charges including Passenger Facility Charges (up to $12) are the responsibility of the passenger and must be paid at time of ticketing.
Zone Definitions: 

Cert Restrictions: Certificate is required for discount and must be presented at time 
I 

Zone A-AL. AR. CT. DC. DE. FL. GA. lA. IN. KY. LA. MA. MD. ME, of ticketing. Accept original certilicale only. Non-extendible. non-combinable with MI. MN. MO. MS, NC. NH, NJ. NY, OH, PA, Rl, SC, TN, VA. VT, WI. WV other air travel certificates or discount fare offers (Mileage Plus awards/SilverWings 
181 
I

Zone B-ID, KS, MT, ND, NE, NM, DK, SD, TX, UT, WY awards/convention/group/tour/senior citizen/student/child/travel package/travel indus­
try discount/ military/government/joint/interline/wholesale/bulk),
Zone C -AZ, CA. NV, OR, WA 

UNITED 
I 
Not valid fo~ travel to/from IUCO/AK/HL 
8 016 5003000045 7 

Promo Code: AV0027 Ticket Designator: AV0027 
u~e Your Ma~terCard® Card Travel Complete: June 6,1997 
for Great Saving~ On United Airfin~. 
To make reservations, call United at 1-800-241-6522 or your travel professional. ~ Please reference Weekender Zone Fare Certificate AV0027. 
I 

TERMS AND CONDITIONS: not replaceable if lost or stolen. No cash value; may not be sold or bartered. Protection Promo Code: AV0027 for flight irregularities will be on United/United Express/Shuttle by United flights only. 
I 

Valid Carrier: United Airlines/Shuttle by United/United Express. Discount applies to new purchases only and will not be honored retroactively or in Valid Routing: Roundtrip travel must begin and end in the 48 contiguous United connection with the exchange of any wholly or partially unused ticket. One ticket per 
I

States (IUCO/AK/HI excluded). All travel must" be via the routes of UA in which UA certificate redeemed. Void if altered or duplicated. publishes Economy Class fares. One way travel/stopovers/circle trip/open segments/ Ticketing Restrictions: Non-refundable. Non-transferable after ticketing. Change in waitlisting/standby are not permitted. Open jaw permitted. (IL and CO excluded as origin or destination is not permitted. Tickets MAY BE revalidated for a$50 per ticket lee. 
I 

origin/destination; however. connections through CHI/DEN are permitted.) 
©1997 MasterCard International IncorporatedValid Ticket Dates: Feb 1through May 15,1997. Valid Travel Dates: Feb 15 through Jun 6. 1997. All travel must t€ complete by Jun 6. 1997. 
Agency Ticketing Instructions: See S*PMAJAV0027 for detailed information 
I 

Blackout Dates: 1997: Mar 22, 29. Apr 5,12. Outbound travel must be on flights 
1. Treat as Type 'N Discount Certificate 
AIRLINES



L. -----.J 
page 8 Friday, February 14, 1997 
• BOSNIA-HERZEGOVINA 
Across both sides of Bosnia, refugees await Brcko decision 

By JUDITH INGRAM 
Associated Press Writer 
BRCKO 

Bosnian Serb refugee Slavojka Lukic moved into this northern city when rebel Serbs overran it during the war. Bajram Salkic, a Muslim, was driven from his house -and he wants it back. 
Both await a decision Friday on the future of a city so important that Bosnia's former warring sides said they would go to battle again for it. Their competing claims are so strong that interna­tional negotiators have twice put off a decision on who 
· should govern it. 
But today, unconfirmed reports that arbitrators would keep the town in Bosnian Serb hands angered thousands of Muslim refugees. 
The Bosnian news agency ONASA, quoting unidentified sources in the Muslim-Croat federation, said Brcko would go to the Serbs for one year. An international supervisor would ensure that the Serbs obey the Dayton peace agree­ment and the decision could be reversed if the Serbs fail to abide by it, ONASA reported. 
The official Tanjug news agency of Sorb-dominated 
• YUGOSLAVIA 
ByJOVANAGEC 
Associated Press Writer 
BELGRADE, Yugoslavia 

Serbia's president warned Thursday he would act swiftly against protesters, but opposi­tion to his autocratic rule appeared to be spreading ­even to his loyal mouthpiece, state television. 
Slobodan Milosevic's admon­ishments came amid reports from inside Serbian Television that 110 employees have signed a petition demanding media freedom and the ouster of their director. 
Several reporters of the TV's third channel -focusing on art, music and sports -recent­ly were fired for participating in opposition protests. 
In additiol)., Independent 
CROATIA especially the United States," (\,I SerlJJ·,··" he Said, adding that local r R leaders told U.S. troops to ; ·· 1'>:. /P·.sanja return to their bases. The 
'"-•.:..;i . ·'· Luka Brcko area is patrolled by the .\ ~;-~ N·,1A~-· U.S. Army under the Dayton \:.HE RZ-e.:a o v 1 N A . peace accords. 

'· Bosnian _i · • Until those reports are con­firmed, however, the wait for the decision is agonizing for those in Brcko. 
"The worst thing is to wait, which we people from Brcko have been doing since 1992," said the 49-year-old Salkic, smoke from his cigarette forming a haze across his 



~~~,,;,;~~~a i~~~~it~li~~~;.;~jl;
w.JJnes Bosnian Tuzla linking their holdings in the 
/'......_ government-. . ........Serb 
10km CroattederattonJ Rep.
.. ,J•<·•-··__.........J..........----..·-·­
AP/Wm.J.Castello 

Yugoslavia also reported that Brcko would go to the Serbs. 
Bosnia's official BH Press news agency said the Sarajevo government was trying to negotiate changes in the deci­sion. 
Sejfudin Zahirovic, deputy mayor in exile of Brcko, said local leaders were furious. 
"We feel betrayed by the international community, 
Despite Milosevic threats, state media seeks freedom 
Index radio reported that many employees at Politika TV-also state-run and pro-Milosevic ­were balking at working for the pro-Milosevic management. 
Control over the media has been a pillar of Milosevic's decade-long rule. The opposi­tion has said the next step in its struggle to topple Milosevic in elections later this year will be to free the media. 
The United States' top human rights official, John Shattuck, plans to visit Belgrade next week to encourage democratic reforms .and an independent news media. 
west and the east. They hope 
the arbitrators will confirm 
their hold on the city and 
widen the corridor surround­
ing it. 
The Muslim-led government wants to regain the city and its transport links, and return the refugees to their homes. It has looked increasingly favorably on a proposal to make the city the center of a free-trade zone, initially protected by international forces. 

Come learn the insights of sports psychology that have helped students of all disciplines ... 
Maximizing Academic Performance in Graduate School 
Presentation & Discussion led by Dr. Dominic Vachon, from the University Counseling Center, will cover: 
*enhancing/maintaining concentration *how to manage numerous demands on your time *handling performance anxiety when writing papers, making presentations & taking comprehen­sive finals *dealing with academic setbacks *improving confidence in your study strategy *improving your ability to pace yourself in your academic studies *focus your energy more quickly & productively 
Date:Sunday,February 16 Place: Fischer-O'Hara Grace Community Ctr Time:4pm-Spm 
*sponsored by Fischer-O'Hara Grace Residences, the University Counseling Ctr.& Campus Ministry 
[coAcH'Sl 
y: 

Half price pitchers... of MILK! First pitcher free! 
ill's and 

Wednesday: 15(: Wings 
Dancing Every Night!



Friday: $2 Night 

Rebel warlord orders murder of U.N. hostage 
By UMED BABAKHANOV Associated Press Writer 
DUSHANBE. Tajikistan 
A rebel warlord accused the Tajik government of try­ing to trick him and had one of his 14 hostages killed Thursday, fellow hostages said. They said the victim was a U.N. military observ­er. 
Russian journalists among the hostages said Bakhram Sadirov ordered an uniden­tified captive shot, claiming the Tajik government had guerrillas led by his warlordfailed return a group of his 
brother back home from

comrades from neighboring 
Afghanistan.

Afghanistan as promised. 
The government claimed theIt was not clear whether the fighters arrived in Tajikistan

journalists, whose captors on Thursday in two heli­
allowed them to use a satellite copters.
telephone, were speaking 
But the hostage journalists

under duress. 
said Sadirov told them the"We are aware of the helicopters were empty. He

report," U.N. spokesman Hiro said the guerrillas were still in Ueki said in New York. 
Afghanistan and several had"However, we are not con-· 

been attacked and killed on

firming this yet. We are still 
their way to meet the heli­waiting for further details 

copters.

from the field." 
Sadirov also alleged that

The report came from corre­government armored vehicles
spondents for the Russian 
and troops were moving in on 

news agencies Interfax and 
his base at Kalainav, 50 miles

ITAR-Tass and the indepen­
east of the capital Dushanbe,dent network NTV. They did where the hostages are beingnot identify the U.N. observer held. The government deniedor provide much detail. 

it.

Earlier, Sadirov had agreed The Interfax correspondent,to free his prisoners -eight 
Suraye Sobirova, urged theU.N. personnel, four Russian 

troops to pull back.

journalists, their driver and "Otherwise, all the hostages
Tajikistan's security minister will be destroyed," she said.
-after the government Moscow condemned the
agreed to bring the 40 Tajik reported killing. 



The 1997 Production of BLAI( I(OFEE HOUSE 
••souls of Black Folk'' 


Friday, February 14 7:30p.m. LaFortune Ballroom 
Students: $3 General Admission: $6 
Doors open at 7 p.m. 

Dressy attire required
UNJVLISITJ tlf NOTI! DAW( 
STIJDOMf0.nHOO..UNT 



VIEWPOINT 
page 10 

THE OBSERVER 
NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1996-97 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Elizabeth Foran Managing Editors Business Manager Patricia Carson Matt Casey Tom Roland 
News Editor ........................ Brad Prendergast Advertising Manager ............................ Ellen Ryan Viewpoint Editor................... Ethan Hayward Ad Design Manager ............................... Jed Peters Sports Editor .....................Timothy Sherman Production Manager ...................... Heather Cocks Accent Editor........................... Joey Crawford Systems Manager ....................... Michael Brouillet Saint Mary's Editor. ................ Caroline Blum Controller .......................................... Tyler Weber Photo Editor .......................... Michael Ruma 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame duLac and Sainr Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administra­tion of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned edi­torials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Columns present the views of rhe authors, and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's com­munity and to all readers. The free expression of varying opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 
Editor-in-Chief  631-4542  Business Office  631-5313  
Managing EditorNiewpoint  631-4541  Advertising  631-6900/8840  
Sporrs  631-4543  Systems/Marketing Dept.  631-8839  
News/Photo  631-5323  Office Manager  631-7471  
Accent/Saint Mary's  631-4540  Fax  631-6927  
Day Ediror!Production  631-5303  Viewpoint  E-Mail  Viewpoinr.1@nd.edu  
General Information  631-7471  Ad E-Mail  observer@darwin.cc.nd.edu  


• OFTEN WRONG, Bur NEVER IN Domn 
A nod towards our impending cultural demise 
It wouldn't do to let the whole semes­ter pass by without a nod towards our impending cultural demise. Most people aren't interested in this. After all, the evidence of it is overwhelming, but the likelihood of anyone understanding that is quite the opposite. 
This is an unequivocal call for censor­ship. Unequivocal, because at this late 

Christopher Regan 

stage, the alternatives are utterly beyond our grasp. Further, it is a call for the government to impose its morality on the people. The last forty years-the last twenty in particular -have left the average American unable to defend himself from himself. 
Case 1: Murder at college in Delaware; 
Two young, affluent college students rent a hotel room. They deliver their child there. After the child is born, they beat it to death and throw it into a dumpster. These students are among the better educated people in their gen­eration. What they did would have been 100 percent legal if it had taken place as a partial-birth abortion. That is to say: "Dumb kids, you're supposed to beat it to death before it comes all the way out." Instead, Delaware threatened the students with (what else) the death penalty. 
The astonishing lack of respect for human life that pervades our culture ­particularly in underclass, inner city locations, but also among the affluent ­is fed by a culture which has abandoned the value of the sanctity of life. Despite the pernicious impacts of a society that enshrines violent death in its Constitution, millions of people are fight­ing to keep it that way. Elaborate argu­ments are constructed appealing to the worst possible understandings of liberty to support national moral suicide. · 
Case 2: Dr. Death; 
There are a lot of people in the world with whom you can argue, but your doc­tor is seldom one of them. If he tells you this is the way it has to be, how can you disagree? Few, if any, professions hold as high a level of trust and attendant responsibility. Now we have doctors who want to help people kill themselves. This, out of humanity, they say. What defense will an elderly person have when his doctor tells him that his family will be terribly burdened by his continu­ing life? 
There will be no protection for our parents. Their doctors and their chil­dren will conspire to convince them they are not worth saving. If assisted suicide becomes legal it is certain to become common. If it becomes legal it is certain to become routine. If it becomes legal it will certainly be done simply for the sake of convenience. If you don't agree, read American history and start in 1973. 
Case 3: Illegitimacy; 
The phenomenal rise in illegitimate births in the United States has fueled the collapse of the inner cities. Black illegiti­macy is now 68 percent of total births. The steadily deterioration of the family unit threatens to turn poor black Americans into a permanent underclass. This class will be without decent living condition or hope of reaching them. Lest anyone think whites are immune, simi­lar effects are starting to show in the suburbs. The figure for whites is about 22 percent, but among poor whites it is close to 45 percent. 
Children without families are far more likely to be poor, far more likely to be criminals, far more likely to be unedu­cated, far more likely to be a burden on society. But it is not for our sake that this trend must be stopped "by any means necessary;" it is for theirs. They are far more likely to die young. 
Case 5: Popular Music and Movies; 
What passes for music in popular cul­ture today leaves little doubt where our society is headed. The explosion of rap and heavy metal lyrics celebrating vio­lence against women and the police, promiscuity and death is inextricably linked to our impending cultural demise. 
The argument is frequently made that television and music don't kill people. That remains to be seen, but it is certain that television and music affect behav­ior. If you don't believe that, ask why billions of dollars are spent on advertis­ing. 
Case 6: alt.sex.stories; 

Notre Dame pays for access to this international child molester network. Megabytes of violence to men, women and mostly children are all included in your $25,000. You can read about the best approaches to kidnapping -how to wait outside a grammar school and entice children into your car. You can read for hours about the absolute debasement of human beings. The Internet is showing us the future. 
The best argument against censoring all of this material, the best argument for not legislating and enforcing morali­ty has been defeated. Not here, but in the hearts and minds of the American people. "If you don't like it, don't buy it. Don't watch it." Americans do like it. They do buy it. They enjoy watching it. And it is propelling them rapidly towards oblivion. Some will wave the banner of the freedoms all the way to hell, but those freedoms will be useless to them in the nation they are building. 
Notes and Asides: 

-The student government elections are over, somebody won and the best man for the job was too smart to run. Go 
• DOONESBURY GARRY TRUDEAU 

figure. Then dial 1-800-HLP-USBK. 
-Tom Clancy made people mad in his speech. Bad writers now define the cul­tural debate at America's finest University. For the imminent conse­quences of this, see above. 
-I watched a bouncer from the Linebacker beat a Notre Dame student to the ground and pepper spray him in the face at point blank range. Subsequently, two other students, were sprayed just for trying to talk him out of beating this kid up behind the stores across the street. I'm going to Finnegan's. 
-The place that Stanford B-2 will hold in history is not yet clear. Some things, however, are already certain. They had more heart, determination and court savvy than luck, talent and athleticism. They wrote the most letters to Recsports and got the worst calls any­one could imagine (See "touching the rim," suspensions for fighting, anything on GR, and "block.") They wrote more on their shoes and featured more tantrums than any team this campus has ever seen. They fought harder than most opposing teams could believe ­and that was just among themselves. They are the best team I've ever coached and the best one I ever will coach. 
Stanford B-2 was a team in every sense of the word. They were some of the best guys I've ever known. Except Flinger, who sucks. Anyway, if you never saw them play, you've never seen what basketball is really about and you probably never will. 
Christopher Regan is a senior Arts and Letters major. His column appears every other Friday. 
• 0.UOTE OF THE DAY 
"Jam certain of nothing 
but of the holiness of the heart's affections and the truth of imagination. What the imagination seizes as beauty must be truth ­whether it existed before or not." 
-John Keats 

VIEWPOINT

Friday, February 14, 1997 page 11 
• lETIERS To THE EOITOR 
What's love got to do with it? 
Dear Editor: 
When one asks the question, "Where is love?" many answers come to mind. The first ones are common­place -boyfriend, girlfriend, family. Every question has a few easy answers. There are other sources, other types of love, though. Some people find their love in friends, some in studies. Some may have a hobby, some may have an addiction. People place their trust and love in many things from people to objects, even to places. Yet none of these can compare, whether in modern society or millennia-old civilizations, to the power of romantic and meaningful love. 
Are there other kinds? Or course. There are loves between people that run the gamut between love-for­life to love-for-a-night, and no judgment can be made here on that. But regardless of our personal feelings on types of relationships, why does the "Awwww" type of love matter so much? Why does the sight of a couple deep in love strike such an all-is-right-with-the-world type of feeling? Why is such a deep chord struck in all of us when we hear of an impending marriage, when we know a close friend beginning a serious relation­ship, when Rachel and Ross finally got together? Silly as the last example may be, it nonetheless illustrates the point that the "happily-ever-after" type of love mat­ters to us, as a people and individually. And of course the individuality of those feelings is what prompted me to write today. 
Different people have different approaches towards love. Some of us seek dates aggressively, some of us don't care. Some view dates as important; to others they're minor functions. How we get there and how we find the loves in our lives is where the problems seem to occur. 
Why is it that as our society has become more free­spoken, more open-minded, and more honest with itself about itself that dating and relationships have become more and more confusing? It seems that one hears about the impossibility of dating and "finding someone" more often than ever. Could the answer be that as we find ourselves more and more in a me.dia­obsessed. quick-want-it-now culture that we expect this aspect of life, one of the more ineffa:hle quantities that exists, to be easier as well? Might we not expect 
• RIGHT OR WRONG? 
that love and relationships will be obtainable as easily as our phone-ahead Chinese takeout? Do we expect that a soulmate can be ordered as easily as a set of Ginsu knives? 
If love is so powerful, so important that one can define it, no two can agree on it, that no three can share it the same, why might we expect it to be so easy to find? What convinces us that it can happen so readi­ly, occur so naturally, appear so easily? 
What makes us think that love will find us? 
Love, for all its beauty and gentility, must be created and forged from who we are and what we do. There is no reason to expect that the creation of a relationship or the finding of love will be any easier than the work we put into out studies or our jobs or any other por­tions of our lives. Love must be pursued as any other desire must be pursued, must be sought after as any hope, any dream must be. 
How does this relate to us now? I spoke once before about how we must be receptive to others' overtures of friendship, how we must open ourselves up to the pos­sibility of people -to allow intruders into the carefully guarded sanctum of one's self. But these overtures, these first communications only come about when one of us has the courage to say hello, to make the gesture of friendship without which none of the romance can come about. 
The first conversation is impossible. The words, "What's up?" seem so embarrassing, so scary. Yet so much rides on them, so much can come from them ­why don't we try? Why don't we commit? To para­phrase myself last year -if so much can be gained by such a simple action -why do we not try? Gamble a little? We must find the courage, men and women, to commit ourselves to making that first contact in order to realize and maximize that portion of our lives which so inspires and motivates us. 
DANIEL MONTIEL Graduate Student in Chemistry 



Courts not always the best judges of humanity 
"Is it okay for them now ... to shoot us, as long as they're sincere in their moral beliefs?", asked abortion clinic director Randi Fallor. Her question was in response to the January 13th ruling of 
U.S. District Judge John Sprizzo, finding not guilty of criminal contempt a retired Catholic Bishop, George Lynch and a young Franciscan brother, Christopher 

Charles Rice 
Moscinski (whose Franciscan name is Brother Fidelis). 
In February, 1996, Judge Sprizzo had enjoined Lynch and Moscinski from "obstructing... any... form of ingress into, or egress from," an abortion facility in Dobbs Ferry, New York. In July Sprizzo had held Lynch and Moscinski in civil contempt for violating his February order but he denied the prosecutor's request to require them to pay $5,000 as damages. 
On Aug. 24, Lynch and Moscinski seat­ed themselves on the clinic's driveway where they prayed the Rosary. They blocked access to the parking lot, but nearby street parking was available. No one was denied access to the clinic. Lynch and Moscinski were arrested and convicted in state court and served 19 and 10 days, respectively, for that obstruction. 
On Sept. 6, the federal prosecutor charged Lynch and Moscinski with crim­inal contempt, which carries a penalty up to $5,000 and six months in jail. In such cases the judge sits without a jury. Judge Sprizzo found them "not guilty ... Not only does their sincere religious belief render their conduct lacking in the willfulness which criminal contempt requires, but also (their} conduct, which is purely passive... is so minimally obstructive as to justify the exercise of the prerogative of leniency." · 
Judge Sprizzo discussed whether, under the theory of necessity or justifi­cation, "it is a defense to a criminal con­tempt charge that a person act with a sincere religious belief that he is acting to save a human life." He noted, that he "is not persuaded ... that there... should not be any (such} defense... because the conduct at issue i.e., abortion, is legal... Were a person to have violated a court order directing the return of a runaway slave when Dred Scott was the law, would a genuinely held belief that a slave was a human person and not an article of property be a matter that the Court would not consider in deciding whether that person was guilty of a criminal contempt charge?" 
Sprizzo did not have to resolve that issue "because... neither Lynch nor Moscinski acted with... willfulness." Sprizzo noted a 1970 case, U.S. v. Sisson, in which Sisson, who had refused to submit to induction, "argued... that the Vietnam War was immoral and that he did not feel he could, in good conscience, claim a con­scientious objector status, because he was not opposed to all wars but just opposed to that war. The district court instructed the jury to determine whether Sisson's refusal to submit to induction was 'unlawfully knowingly and willfully done.' After the jury found Sisson guilty, the district court set the verdict aside ... (because} Sisson's sincere moral belief precluded his conviction." That ruling was upheld by the Supreme Court as an acquittal. When a jury, or a judge sitting without a jury, acquits a criminal defendant, that acquittal is final and cannot be appealed because of the con­stitutional prohibition of double jeop­ardy. Since Judge Sprizzo's decision appears to be an acquittal rather than a ruling on a question of law, it ought to be similarly final. The government, how­ever, has appealed Sprizzo's ruling and the Court of Appeals will have to decide. 
As Moscinski's lawyer, Gabriel Kralik, a college and law school graduate of Notre Dame, noted, Lynch and Moscinski at their trial "explained to the court the meaning of their prayer of the Rosary and how they relied on its power to change the hearts of people... As patients and workers walked by, unob­structed, the men simply prayed. They felt no ill will or contempt for the court or arresting officers." They "were also ready to accept the imprisonment penal­ty sought by the government." 
Judge Sprizzo said that "Lynch's and Moscinski's sincere, genuine, objectively based and, indeed, conscience-driven religious belief, precludes a finding of willfulness (which) means deliberate conduct done with a bad purpose either to disobey or to disregard the law... [E)ven [if their conduct were willful] the Court would still find [them]not guilty. The facts presented... by ... testimony and a videotape depicting an elderly bishop and a young monk quietly pray­ing with rosary beads in-the Clinic's dri­veway, clearly call for ... exercise of the prerogative of leniency which a fact­finder has to refuse to convict... [T]he Court must.. .have the broadest possible discretion to determine whether... a finding of criminal contempt is neces­sary to vindicate its authority." Criminal contempt is not a violation of a statute but a defiance of a judicial order. "It's a crime against the judge," said Yale Law Professor Akil Reed Amar. "If he wants to forgive and forget, he has the power to do so." 
The New York Times editorially evoked images of bombings in criticizing Sprizzo's "bizarre opinion": "The pro­testers' aggression... is ... clear. Their intent is to prevent access to clinics. Whether they achieve that purpose by blocking the doors or issuing verbal threats, the fear they cause is the same. The recent abortion clinic bombings ... are on the extreme end of that continu­um of intimidation tactics." 
Bishop Lynch and Brother Fidelis (Moscinski) were obstructionist of a sort, even thought the merely required some people to park in the street. But if their cause were politically correct they would be praised, not condemned, by the "respectable" establishment. When the National Council of Churches, in 1968, approved peaceable "civil disobe·­dience" in the Vietnam draft context as "a valid instrument' to correct injustice, the Council's definition of the term pre­cisely covers the conduct of Bishop Lynch and Brother Fidelis: "Civil disobe­dience [means] deliberate, peaceable violation of a Jaw deemed to be unjust, in obedience to conscience or a higher law, and with recognition of the state's legal authority to punish the violator." 
Protest against the Vietnam War was politically correct. But nothing is politi­cally more incorrect than total opposi­tion to abortion, which is the defining sacrament of what Pope John Paul calls "the culture of death." Bishop Lynch and Brother Fidelis remind us of what we would rather forget: that every abortion is a murder and that every abortuary is a miniature Auschwitz. In any sane so­ciety, Bishop Lynch and Brother Fidelis would be honored and the killers of unborn babies would be put behind bars. When future generations look back on our pagan culture of death, one of its redeeming points of light will be an elderly bishop and a young monk wit­nessing peacefully and prayerfully for life and a judge with the wisdom and courage to count them as moral exem­plars rather than criminals. 
Charles Rice is on the Law School fac­ulty. His column appears every other Friday. 

---------------------------------------------------------------------------------~­
page 12 Friday, February, 14, 1997 




ACCENT 



Making an effort 
HPC promotes Date Week (well, it's two weeks, really) to give a little nudge to those who may need some pursuasion. Here's what if's all about, with an account of Mike and Jessica's date to Shooters. 
F 
By ELENA MILLNER each other by getting naked -sneak preview of what's in Both commented on the vast Mike, after a few below-the­Accent Writer that is with a massage thera­store. array of guns, from pistols to belt shots by Jessica (anything pist. New Renditions not only The date started with a little sniper guns to machine guns, subliminal here?), she hit the eelin' the need for a little gives massages but offers fake accidental detour route through that were displayed in the gun target dead center. Not only one-on-one with a certain bakes to reduce the pasty the greater Elkhart area. But room into which they were was Mike impressed, but the someone? appearance of your sun-starved what could have been a nega­taken. After selection, they other gun slingers were in awe. Hall Presidentss' Council has skin. tive aspect of Mike and Jess's were both given eye goggles One leaned over to Mike and been concocting a grand plan Since your body is relaxed evening, turned into a positive and car muffs to wear. Jessica whispered, "That was awe­to rid the stereo­some! You types of bad gen­should have her der relations on with you more campus once and often than on 
for all. Instead of dates." Two 
simply talking points for 
about the issue, Jessica. She 
our brilliant claims it was 
dorm leaders luck, but Mike 
have taken action isn't convinced. 
by scoping the B o t h 
s 0 u t h described the 
Bend!Mishawaka gun-pros that 
area for great coached to be 
places to go on very helpful. 
dates. knowledgeable, 
This two-week and enthusias­
entourage of tic. 
opportunities On Thursday 
that the Council nights, there is 
has compiled are "Commando 
sure to fill any Night," in which 
spaces in the people come to 
social calendar. watch the gun 
And here's a shooters dive 
news flash: The over barrels and 
one-on-one's can aim at moving 
be with more targets. Mike 
than one "certain and Jessica both 
someone expressed inter­
throughout the est in a 
two weeks (of Thursday night 
course, HPC rec­outing to see 
ommends one "Commando." 
per night, though They also plan 
an "A" for effort on wearing full 
would be in order camouf1age and 
for success with face paint for 
two). Date Week their next 
will kick off on excursion to 
February 17 and Shooters. 
run until March "It was so 
1. much fun," Mike 
Before y·ou remarked. "I 
murmur your am definitely 
first "but" concerning a lack of and ready to go, Heartland is one when Mike stopped not commented that she had "no 
monetary funds, HPC is one offering free cover. So practice once, but twice to ask for direc­idea how real" this was going "It was one of the most ran­
step ahead. They have your two-step and grab your tions. Jessica remarked that to be. Both learned a lot from dom and fun things I've ever 
approached each of the busi­ten-gallon hat that has been she was quite impressed by this the safety lessons given, and done," said Jessica. "If I ever 
nesses and successfully stashed under your bed. oh-so-bold move of Mike~s. No the attentiveness of the pro-gun want to 'pack heat,' I am set." 
obtained, or are in the process To add to the list, various need to fret, all you gun enthu­instructors, whom Jessica Look for ads in The Observer 
of obtaining, various discounts restaurants, comedy clubs, and siasts, Mike and Jessica were referred to as "Hank" and throughout Date Week for spe­
that will run throughout the bowling alleys are running spe­sure to write down detailed "Bob." cific times, fees and directions 
duration of the two weeks. cials as well as Lazer Storm directions which will appear in Mike shot first and said he concerning all of these activi­
In order to take advantage of and Michiana Paintball. Now if the Observer during Date was scared from the huge kick ties. Besides all of these places, 
this wonderful wintery weath­your date gets annoying, you Week. he felt. Though Mike claims to there are numerous activities 
er, St. Patrick's Park offers can just shoot at them. Once arriving, a mere 15 have "no background" at all in right here on campus. 
both snow tubing and cross But the high action does not minutes before closing time shooting, Jessica is suspicious. All right, you are thinking 
country skiing. Bendix also let up there. For some real (luckily it stayed open for them "I think Tobin has shot more this sounds good, but how will 
offers snow tubing. excitement, you and your guest to shoot), Mike and Jess were than he's let on, I was very this get me a little one-on-one 
For those with some winter can sharpen your target aim by greeted with, "Do you two pack impressed." Wow, two points private time (hootchie­
sport talent, Swiss Valley is going to Shooters, where, yes, heat?" for Mike -he impressed coochie)? Well, if you need 
offering specials each day for you shoot real guns and no, it is Well, the date had gone well Jessica twice in the same night. directions for that, you better 
downhill skiing. not recommended to shoot at so far. Mike and Jessica later Hey guys, this is the place to stick to HPC's starter course a 
To alleviate the stresses of your date. HPC's own Mike learned that the lingo meant take your date. little longer than two weeks. the semester, you and your Tobin and Jessica Irvine went "Do you have any guns on And ladies, this is the place date can get to really know to the shooting range to get a you?" for you as well. According to 

'Rent a Vermin' not quite as·raunchy as it sounds 
I
By ELENA MILLNER improving gender relations in an innovative, creative the dining hall. By Friday, whoever has bid the high­Accent Writer way. Bobby Booker, one of Carroll Hall's co-presi­est gets their man. The following Monday, the money dents, remarked on the success this event had in his will be collected, then WednesdaY is the big day. n correlation with Date Week, the men of Carroll high school. He explained that it was called "Rent a From 10 a.m. to 6 p.m., excluding classes, your Hall present "Rent A Vermin." This is ND stu­Senior" and the bidders had their senior carry their Vermin of Choice is yours. Carroll's co-presidents, dents' grand opportunity to claim their favorite books for the day, get their lunch, dress funny, and Booker and Kevin Fumai, hope that the Vermin's Vermin for a day as Carroll will be auctioning off other various random acts. "It was a lot of fun," efforts will help promote the success of Date Week. themselves throughout Date Week to the highest bid­Booker said. So, maintain a watchful eye for those Carroll men (no der. The plan is to hold the bidding period during Week stalking, please). If the price is right, your dream 
This fundraising idea takes on the challenge of 1 of Date Week. It will take place during lunches in Vermin is yours. Who says you can't buy love? 
ACCENT
Friday, February 14, 1997 page 13 
HPC Date Wee f possibl lved in t  Dating: Just Do It  
By MARGEE HUSEMANN  
Associate Viewpoint Editor  

et's face it, Notre Dame is not exactly a bastion of great dating. The squirrels on 
campus date more than most of us. This is not news. Every year some sort of 
·"creative dating" seminar comes to campus to try and promote a healthier envi­ronment for campus couples. These are ultra-useful, providing such tips as "share your favorite Bible passage" or "go to the Zoo." 
However, there's only so many times that you can giggle over Song of Songs, and the three-headed fish of St. Joe's Lake are more exotic than Potawami. They even offer some great conversation starters like, "Do you have an innie or an outtie?" Gee, it's hard to understand why these seminars fail. The truth is, "creative daters" don't live in South Bend, they won't chaperone the date to monitor conversation, and they were our age the last time that the Notre Dame Football Team was National Champions. 
With these facts in mind, HPC is sponsoring a two-week starter course in dating. Here's the plan: 1) Ask someone out; 2) Go on a date. It sounds easy, but how many of you have fumbled step number one or skipped both steps in your eagerness for some lovin'? To lighten the financial burden of dating, local businesses will be offer­ing discounts to ND couples. There's no good excuse not to go out. In order to show the advantages of this plan, here's a table showing typical ND dates versus the new improved ND date: 
Before:. 

•Holding hands with that special someone at Cushing and watching a movie you saw three times this summer 
•Walking 
in the snow to your girl/boyfriend's dorm .. 

•Greasy 
"burgers" at NDH 



After: 

•
Holding hands with that special someone at a movie that just opened 

•Taking 
a cab through the snow to Meijer, land of wonder 

•Greasy 
burgers at Steak 'n Shake 



And remember-HPC aren't just the presidents of your hall, they're also members. 
We all know that the gender relations at Notre Dame are not normal. In the real world, or so I've heard, brushing by a member of the opposite sex in a crowded bar does not constitute a date. In recognition that our lives will not forever include the social meccas of dorm parties, SYRs, and holding hands in Cushing, we pledge the fol­lowing: 
•To 
make social calls to the living space of the opposite sex without the expectations of a commitment 

•To 
refrain from assuming that any relationship between a woman and a man has to • be something more than friendship · 

•To 
go out on a real date (Yes, a real date!) 

•To 
fight back the fear of rejection and make the first move/ask someone out 

•To 
battle the insipid foes of gender stereotypes (Women can ask out men!) 

•To 
drink responsibly so as to remember dates and so as not to alienate dates 




-
•To 
start a tradition of good relationships at ND 

•To 
seek out new ideas and new locations-to boldly go where no one has dated be­


fore •Respect 
Friday, February 14, 1997 The Observer • SPORTS page 14 
•NBA 
Shaq attack shelved for 8-10 weeks with knee injury 
Associated Press 
INGLEWOOD, Calif. 
Shaquille O'Neal, who signed a seven-year, $120 million con­tract with the Los Angeles Lakers last July, will miss at least 8-10 weeks with an in­jured left knee. 
O'Neal, who has helped the Lakers to the best record in the Western Conference, was in­jured in the first quarter of their 100-84. victory at Minnesota on Wednesday night -his first game after missing two games because of an in­jured right knee. 
O'Neal's injury was diag­
n()sed Thursday by team doctor Stephen Lombardo of the Kerlan-Jobe Medical Group in Inglewood following an exami­nation, X-rays and MRI tests. 
The Lakers said O'Neal, one of the NBA's dominant big men at 7-foot-1 and 300-plus pounds, suffered a hyperex­tension injury, with damage including a torn capsule, a fractured bone and a partial tear to the lateral collateral lig­ament. 
No surgery will be necessary, the team added, but O'Neal will wear a splint for 2-3 weeks, after which he will begin reha­bilitation therapy. 
O'Neal was injured when he landed awkwardly on his left leg while trying to control a lob pass from Nick Van Exel. 
O'Neal landed hard, but after a brief delay, continued to play and wound up with 12 points and four rebounds in a little more than eight minutes. 
He came out .of the game with 3:37 left in the first quar­ter and went to the Lakers' dressing room with trainer Gary Vitti shortly thereafter. 
O'Neal, headphones and sun­glasses on, ignored questions as he walked past reporters in the locker room after the game and went to the team bus. 

"I asked him, 'Good or bad,' and Shaq said, 'Bad,' " Van Exel said. 
O'Neal, who turns 25 next month, played four seasons with the Orlando Magic before signing with the Lakers as a free agent last summer. He en­tered Thursday's games as the NBA's third-leading scorer with a 25.8-point average and its fourth-leading rebounder with a 12.8 average. 
He is also averaging 3.0 blocked shots and has made 
56.3 percent of his shots. 
In his four seasons with Orlando, he averaged 27.2 points and 12.5 rebounds. 
O'Neal injured his right knee late in the third quarter of a game against Washington on Feb. 2 when he planted his foot in the lane, started to twist for a shot and banged legs with Bullets center Gheorghe Muresan. 
That injury caused him to miss two games as well as the All-Star game in Cleveland last Sunday. 
Without O'Neal, the Lakers were beaten by the Los Angeles. Clippers 106-84 at Anaheim Arena on Feb. 4, but re­bounded to beat the Chicago Bulls 106-90 the following night at the Forum. 
The.Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. 
Classifieds Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
ALASKA EMPLOYMENT -Earn up  Is your band ready? Rent a full­ ADOPTION:  
NOTICES  to $3,000-$6,000+/mo. in fisheries, parks, resorts. Airfare!  FOR RENT  production studio at $100 a day. I'll Learn To Fly Productions 237-9736  Corporate Executive & homemaker can offer newborn a wonderful life  Teresa Jo, 2/14/92, 3/21/92, 6/6/92, 5117/96,  
Food/Lodging! Get all the options.  filled with warmth, security, endless  10/4/97, and ...  
Spring Break Bahamas Party  Call  Homes for Rent for 97-98  You play Irish Music? Sesuns at  love, education & a bright future.  Happy Valentine's Day,  
Cruise! 6 Days $279! Includes All  (919)918-7767, ext.A154.  ADT Security 232-2595  Batte!! Park Cafe in Mishawaka.  Confidential. Mark  Ed  
Meals, Parites, & Taxes! Great  256-9041. Musicians welcome.  & Candace 1-888-811-1141  
Beaches & Nightlife! Leaves From  EASTERN EUROPE/ASIAN JOBS  BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY  
Ft. Lauderdale! 1-800-678-6386 springbreaktravel.com  Live in Prague, Budapest, Tokyo, etc. teaching simple conversational  219-291-7153 FAX 1185  Miss Kelly! 143 Lots. Mr. Rich!  Jillian and Carmen  DearTenille, Happy Valentine's Day, dear.  
SPRING BREAK PANAMA CITY BEACH FLORIDA SANDPIPER-BEACON BEACH  English. No languages/teaching exp. required. (919)918-7767, Ext. W154.  Campus View Apartments 1&2 Bedroom Apts Avail '97-'98 Schoolyear Summer Leases Available  From Chicago ... FULTON's POINT APPEARING AT BRIDGETS THIS FRIDAY  are The Coolest Get Well Bag Makers. If only they could be MY  Thanks for hanging around with me ... Love, Brad  
RESORT 3 POOLS, 1 INDOOR  FEMALE AND MALE CAMP  Call272-1441  Valentines ...  Colleen,  
POOL, HUGE BEACHSIDE HOT  COUNSELORS needed for out­ glittergirl- You won't be disappointed. Only  
TUB, SUITES UP TO 10 PEOPLE TIKI BEACH BAR, HOME OF THE  standing Maine camps! CAMP VEGA for girls and CAMP CEDAR  POTATO HOUSE-8-BDRM-FOR NEXT SCHOOL YEAR. 277-3097.  i'm reading Saroyan on 8. come find me!  Jacqueline,  the best can come of this. Dan  
BIGGEST PARTY. FREE INFO 1-800-488-8828  for boys. Each located on magnifi­cent lakefront setting with excep­ NICE FURNISHED HOMES FOR  -radboy  Last spring, I gave you my heart. The very next day you gave it away.  Happy Valentine's Day, Sean.  
WWW.SANDPIPERBEACON.COM  tional facilities. Over 100 positions  NEXT SCHOOL YEAR NORTH OF  Are you looking for additional  This year to set me from tears ...... !  love you even though none of your  
at each camp for heads and assis­ ND 2773097  income while pursuing your college  gave it to someone special.  friends believe you. Do sleepies,  
THE COPY SHOP  tants in tennis, basketball, baseball,  career? Are you interested in help-·  Hopeless Romantic  honey.  
Lafortune Student Center  volleyball, soccer, lacrosse, golf,  Need a townhouse this summer?  ing people help themselves?  -Beth  
Phone 631-COPY  field hockey, roller hockey, swim­ We need to sublet ours! Call us at  Are you interested in good nutri­ J.  
Mon.: 7:30a.m.-Midnight Tues.: 7:30a.m.-Midnight  ming, sailing, canoeing, scuba, water-skiing, archery, weight train­ r3-982~0R SALE  tion? You are a phone call away from changing your entire future! 1­ You Amaze  Poggirific! Fletchsitcle -Nesticle  
Wed.: 7:30a.m.-Midnight  ing, athletic trainer, journalism, pho­ 800-927-2527 ext. 1051  Me.  Arriba!  
Thur.: 7:30a.m.-Midnight  tography, ceramics, crafts, drama,  
Fri.: 7:.30 a.m. -7:00p.m.  dance oazz, tap, ballet), nature  #10­ J.  Secor,  
Sat.: Noon-6:00p.m.  study, backpacking, horseback rid­ Bed -Queensize orthopedic premi­ 0796. Anytime.  YOU  Who needs flowers???  
Sun.: Noon -Midnight  ing, ropes course, trip leaders,  um mattress set. Never used still in  -Martini  AMAZE  Strawberry milk and Taco bell ...  
Open Early, Late, & Weekends  mountain biking, riflery, general  package -cost 550 sacrifice 175.  ME.  I'll pay  
(w/youngest campers). Also looking  (219) 674-2352  OLIGARCHY EDICT IV  J.  
SPRING BREAK!  for secretaries, maintenance,  In light of the recent mock elections  YOU  Tobin ...  
MARCO ISLAND, FLORIDA AND  kitchen. Camp.dates approx. June  Must sell. 1988 Mercury Tracer.  held by the now-deful')ct student  AMAZE  Have a great Valentine's Day???  
S. PADRE, TX BEACHFRONT CONDOS SLEEPS 4 TO 8. FROM  21-Aug 21. Top salary, room, board, laundry, clothing, and travel  5-speed. $850.00 or best offer. Looks good! 257-7872.  government, the Oligarchy would like to remind all students that we  ME. J.  A date with chesty???  
$695 WEEK. PRICES DISCOUNT­ allowance. MEN-CAMP CEDAR for  are still THE sole governing and  YOU  News, Happy Valentine's Day!! I  
ED BY OWNER. 941-642-5483  boys, 1758 Beacon Street, Brookling, MA 02146, ccedarme@aol.com, 1-888-844­ '90 Camry 111 K miles $3500 291-4114  administrative body on this campus. Furthermore, the Oligarchy will con­tinue to reign next year as we have  • AMAZE ME. J.  Where are my beads??? Or at least the story to go with them??  
MICHIANA PAINTBALL IS NOW  8080. WOMEN-CAMP VEGA, PO  GENESIS w/ 2 6-button ctrlrs, 9  recruited an elite group of students  
OPEN FOR INDOOR PAINTBALL  Box 1771, Duxbury, MA 02332,  top games. $150. 1-4639.  to continue our tradition of excel- ERIN­ Campbell,  
GAMES AT SCOTISDALE MALL. CALL 291-2540 FOR INFO. ..,ACT NOW! LAST CHANCE TO  jobs@campvega.com, http://cam­pvega.com, t-800-838-VEGA. WE WILL BE ON THE NOTRE DAME CAMPUS, Monday, March 3 in the  TICKETS 1,___________,  lence in totalitarianism. -The Chief I VALENTINES  Smile? -J.L.Siegel Hey 8-Cuppers, "how's it going?"  Happy belated birthday!ll Have a good time tonight!!!! Love, The Neighbors You Never Knew  
CALL LEISURE TOURS AND GET  Lafortune Student Center, Dooley  NEED GA'S FOR PROVIDENCE  - We will miss your contribution this  
FREE INFO FOR SPRING BREAK  Room from lOAM to 4PM. NO  CALL CHRIS@ 288-1439  To the guardian of my kitty,  weekend. While you read your  G,  
PACKAGES TO SOUTH PADRE,  APPOINTMENT NECESSARY.  Couples send cute observer ads  Forum, we'll bulls-eye some womp­ I know you hate this ... but it's  
CANCUN, JAMAICA AND FLORI­DA. 1-800-838-8203  PERSONAL  saying you're the bomb. This one is for you. -j  rats and not have to worry about "going ourll!l  Valentine's Day. I love you, baby, with all my heart. Can't wait to see  
Looking for Sales Reps to sell  you tomorrow ....  
PACK O'LAUGHLIN THEATER.  Weight Loss System, Vitamins,  Annie- JAG,  Tigger,  Love, me  
This Fri., Sat., and Sun.  and/or Skin Care and Cosmetics.  Happy Valentines Day!  WE ONLY HAVE EYES FOR YOU.  You woke me from a nightmare ...  
We need YOUR help!  Direct Sale. Part time/Full time.  You are the greatest  HAPPY VALENTINE'S DAY.  Now you tuck me in everynight!  Brad,  
Buy your tickets soon!!  Training. Call  and I love you  LOVE,  You'll always be my baby!  Love you, lover.  
For the SMC/ND dance workshop  (219)277-6021.  Mike  MOM, DAD & PETEY  I love you forever and ever!  No soup for you ....  
production of  Happy Valentine's Day  
"BODY TALK."  Clarke,  TO MY ROOMMATES AT 29  Love, Pooh  Heather,  
MIND YOUR OWN BUSINESS!  See, I always spell it  LAFAYETIE SQUARE:  Soup? What else could it nlean?  
BODYTALK  ColorWorks is currently recruiting  with an e. I hope you liked your  Happy Valentine's-Day to the peo­ Hope you get some this weekend ..  
-Be there!!!  on campus for a limited number of  song  ple I love to live with! Have a great  Shannon,  
ILOST & FOUND I  summer '97 management positions. Gain hands on experience in man­aging a business in your hometown.  last night and I can't wait to hang with you on Friday. I hope you'll be my Valentine on Friday, even if  day! Love, Kate  So I've been hearing rumors that you are the most beautiful woman on campus. I guess I have to  Missy, beware the penguin  
LOST: CAMERA LEFT AT CAM­PUS VIEW AT CASE RACE  Opportunities available in SOUTH BEND, ELKHART, FT.WAYNE, INDIANAPOLIS, and  you are going to a dance with someone else.. That's ok, though because I know we'll have a blast  TO MY A.A. BUDS IN CAVANAUGH: Roses are red, Violets are blue,  agree ... I mean it was PRINITED in THE OBSERVER so it MUST BE TRUE.  I love you, Doug, thank you for everything. Looking forward ... -Heath  
PARTY, CALL ERIK AT 243-9290  other areas. Summer earnings $7­ at the formal. Love you tons  sometimes I wish I could be as cool  Happy Valentine's Day,  
AND DESCRIBE.  $9,000. To speak to a campus rep­ I don't think I really need to put my  as you. Although I'm Off-campus,  t  Denise,  
resentative call  name ,but  and don't see you a lot, don't forget  Between a frog and a boy's mouth,  
FOUND: HEMP NECKLACE WITH  1-800-477-1001.  that I'm always good for a shot! ( I  I'd take you any day.  
TURTLE STONE BEHIND THE  Todd  couldn't think of anything else that  Kurt, Soulful, Andy, and Spoon:  -Dave.  
BOOKSTORE ON SATURDAY.  EARLY CHILDHOOD DEVELOP­ rhymed!)  Cymbals on the quad?  
CALL AMY 4-2880.  MENT CENTER  For a gilt that is unique, send a  HAPPY V-DAY GUYS!  What a great Valentine that would  Hey Sean,  
The Early Childhood Development  BELL YGRAM to your SHEIK!  Love, Ex-Naugh res, K~e  be!  I love you even though nobody  
If anyone has found a computer  Center at Notre Dame (18680 Bulla  234-3355  -Big Hand Red (and the Bottomless  believes you.  
disc labeled "Sophomore Year'' in  Road) is currently accepting appli­ HEY HOT BOY!! II!  Shiksa)  
the library computer lab please con­ cations for an Assistant Teacher to  JAZZERCISE  Alter a year, you've still got me  Kimmy,  
tact Beth at x1514. Thank you.  work with 3 to 6 year old children.  Very close to campus  stalking you.  To the guys in Dillon 203:  Barry White lives on!  
The hours for this position are  277-0111  Happy Valentine's Day!  Y'all are the BOMB!  
LOST: Pioneer detachable face  11 :00a.m.-6:00p.m (or possibly  Happy Valentine's Day!  Tony­ 
•  for car CD player. was in a black carrying case. if found, please call 4-2079 (ask for Lee)  1 :15-6:00p.m.), Monday through Friday from February 24 through May 16, 1997 with a possiblity of  Electrolysis by Rebecca Blend Method 674-6933  Hey SN-why cant you give me any spades? Benoit can and has.  Love 'n' Stuff, Red  1know I smell good. SeHer tha'n Kell, right? Stop with the smoochie talk, already. -J  
reward  extending beyond May 16. If you  FAX IT FAST!!!  Kris and Lauren:  
are interested in applying for this  Sending & Receiving  To the sexiest men on campus (that  I'm dumk! I mean, drunk!  From Justin to his Mormon, what  
WANTED  poisiton , please call Terri Kosik or Thayer Kramer at 631-3344 for  at THE COPY SHOP  would be the men of 243 Keough}, Fridays just wouldn't be the same  What do you mean I'm not? Thanks, gals! Happy Valentine's  number am I now?  
more information and an applica­ Lafortune Student Center  without you guys.  Day!!  hey Ml miss me till 3am? where do  
- SUMMER JOBS  tion.AFFORDABLE 1 ,2, & 3 BDRM  Our Fax# (219) 631-FAXI  Will you be our Valentines??  And I promise, no more 26 year  i live again, oh yeah! go 3A! hey  
ALL LAND/WATER SPORTS  HOMES. AVAIL. NOW. NEAR  FAX IT FAST!!!  olds!  martin, Sorry i took up your space.  
PRESTIGE CHIDREN'S CAMPS  CAMPUS. GILLIS PROPERTIES  Happy Valentine's Day  All my love,  how many called?  
ADIRONDACK MOUNTAINS  272-6551  Is your band ready? Rent a full­ bee-bee! I Love You!  Laura  
NEAR LAKE PLACID  production studio at $100 a day. I'll  Love, Bean  
1-800-786-8373  Learn To Fly Productions 237-9736  

-

VARSITY SHOP 

Open Saturday 11-Spm 
Joyce Fieldhouse (near Gate 3)Sunday 8:30 -4pm & Second Floor Joyce Center 
r-------~~--~-~~-~~2oo;c;--Ofl~~~-~-~ 
original priced ... merchandise... 
(Can't be used in conjuction with any other coupons or discount offer) Offer valid thru 2-21-97 
~-------------------------------------------------~ 
Regular Varsity Shop Hours: M-Sat 11am-5pm, Sunday 1-4pm 
• 



• 

Date:  Sunday, Feb. 16, 1997  
Time:  1:00PM  
Place:  283 Galvin Life Science  
(Auditorium)  

**Everyone is Welcome! ** 
The Observer • SPORTS Friday, February 14, 1997 
• GOLF 

Woods four back in Outback 
Associated Press 
MELBOURNE,Australia 
Tiger Woods left his driver in the bag Thursday and worked his way around with course with precision Thursday to shoot a 68 in the first round of the Australian Masters, four strokes off the lead. 
Adapting his game to the tricky doglegs on the par-73 course at Huntingdale Golf Club, Woods used his driver only once -preferring position over power -and made only one birdie on a hole that wasn't a par-5. 
Still Woods, a notoriously slow starter, was in good shape with only four players ahead of him. Lucas Parsons of Australia tied the course record with a 9­under-par 64 to take the lead. 
Peter O'Malley, another Australian, was at 65 while Mike Weir and Rick Gibson, both of Canada, shot 67s. Larry Mize was one of five players tied with Woods at 68. 
Woods, coming off a hectic week in Thailand that ended with a 1 0-stroke victory in the Asian Honda Classic, is seeking his fifth victory in 14 profes­sional starts and trying to win on a third continent this year. 
About 10,000 people jammed six and seven deep around the first fairway as Woods teed off at noon with Brett Ogle and Robert Allenby. Allenby, who shot a 70 and Ogle, who strug­gled to a 78, were clearly dis­turbed several times when the gallery refused to settle down after Woods hit. 
"Tiger's not the only one playing out here," Ogle snapped to the crowd at one point. 
Woods, however, played the course in a way no one else could. His booming shots off the tee enabled him to drive with his 3-wood and 1-irons and 2-irons. On the 51 0-yard 
.,.,.. 
·-~· 


SAINT 
MARY'S 
COLLEGE 
NOTRE DAME, IN 
-~­


SAINT 
MARY'S 
COLLEGE 
NOTRE DAME, IN 
-~­



SAINT 

MARY'S 
COLLEGE 
NOTRE DAME, IN 

LA ESPERANZA 

Authentic Mexican Kitchen "Your Passport to a New Eating Experience.' 
Enjoy Valentine's Day at La Esperanza 
Special Meal for Two Includes soup, entree and dessert for $15* *Bring this ad with you. 
Open 7 days a week! Mon.-Thurs. 11:00 a.m.-9:00p.m. 10:00 a.m.-10:00 p.m 


Located at 1636 N. Ironwood ­Next door to Nick's Patio Within Walking Distance from Campus! 

Mandatory Informational Meetingfor SaintMary's Class election willbe Monday and Tuesday, February 17th and 18th at 7:00 PMin Haggar Game Room 
14th hole he was over the green with a 3-wood and a 2­iron. 
"It wasn't easy today," Woods said after making it look rather easy. "As everyone knows, this golf course requires a lot of concentration. 
One mistake with a tee shot and you're looking at bogey or worse," he said. 
"I grinded my way around," Woods said. "Today was very tiring. Physically, I'm fine, but it is just a mental grind on a golf course that requires so much accuracy off the tee. I just made one birdie, apart from the par-5s." 
Woods said he was not sur­prised to see Parsons in the lead. 
"What a lot of people don't understand is that any pro is capable of doing it on any given day and he did it today," Woods said. 
Woods saved par on No. 18 with a 10-foot putt. The one time he used his driver was on the par-5 1Oth, setting up a birdie. 
Parsons, who lost his PGA Tour card last season after earning only $21,233 in 24 starts, matched the course record held by Bernhard Langer and Mike Clayton. 
·-
~-----~--~--------~~ ------------~ ---~ ~---~ ------~-­
Friday, February 14, 1997 The Observer • SPORTS page 17 
• TRACK ANO FIElD 
Fasting runner breaks indoor record for mile 
By RAF CASERT Associated Press Writer 
GHENT, Belgium 
The month of Ramadan fast­ing might have cost Hicham el Guerrouj some of his strength. It didn't cost him a chance to set world records. 
After running his first-ever mile Wednesday, the Moroccan now has two world records in 10 days, and he took away the oldest indoor mark in the books, held by Eamonn Coghlan. 
In Germany on Feb. 2, el Guerrouj still lived within the limits of the Muslim Ramadan, but thrived in heated competi­tion with Ethiopia's Haile Gebreselassie as he smashed the 1,500 indoor world record. 
At the Flanders Indoor meet, the Ramadan fast was a thing of the past, but he had to struggle the final two laps as a lonesome figure against the clock. 
He finished in a time of 3 
CHRIS KNYCH Happy 
Valentine's Day! 
We miss you... 
Love -Your Family 
minutes, 48.45 seconds, beat­ing the previous record by 1.33 seconds. After his victory lap, he was wrapped in the Moroccan flag, exhaustion fi­nally taking effect. 
"The race has tired me too much. After Ramadan, you lose a lot of energy," el Guerrouj said of the month of daily fast­ing from sunrise to sunset. 
But ever since the Atlanta Olympics, he has been running to redeem himself. 
He thought the day of the Atlanta 1,500 final was his as he was surging alongside fa­vorite Noreddine Morceli with a lap to go. 
Yet he stumbled, and his dreams crashed. 
"It was providence," he now says, convinced that at 21, his time was yet to come. 
He did not have to wait too long, and the two records make him a rising star of mid­dle distance running, poised to peak in the August world championships in Athens. 

• COllEGE BASKETBAll 
-· 
Hoosiers trying to find stroke 
By STEVE HERMAN Associated Press Writer 
Despite the absence of its leading scorer, Indiana is on a modest two-game winning streak and playing with renewed confidence and some uncharacteristic offense. 
Coach Bob Knight still isn't convinced. 
"Consistency has not exactly been a byword with this team.... We're an immature team in terms of the mentality that we bring to the game," Knight said. 
Nevertheless, with forward Andrae Patterson missing from the victories over Ohio State and Penn State because of a sprained right ankle, 
A.J. Guyton and Charlie Miller helped produce the Hoosiers' first back-to-hack games of 80­plus points all season. 
"We have so much expectations and want to do so well, sometimes we get so focused on the wrong things. Now our approach is just compet­ing, trying to play to win," said Miller, whose season-high 22 points led Indiana over Penn State 81-57 Tuesday night. 
Miller has averaged 13.5 points a game over the past eight games and scored more points against Ohio State and Penn State than he totaled in the first seven games of the season. 
''I'm just trying to play, to do the things I can do and stay away from the things I can't do," he said. "Coach Knight and the coaching staff have stuck with me, and I'm finally coming through, finally getting some progress out of my play." 
Another thing Patterson's absence has pro­duced is more playing time for Guyton, who was on the floor 78 of a possible 80 minutes and scored 45 points in the two games, and for Miller, who played 75 minutes and scored 34 points. 
"That's something I really can't explain," Miller said of the Hoosiers' success without Patterson. "But I can't wait until he gets back because then hopefully things can go our way and we can have a late run." 
The two wins evened the Hoosiers' Big Ten record at 6-6 with six games to go, starting Sunday at No. 14 Michigan. Indiana then returns home to play Purdue next Tuesday. 
Knight doesn't know what to think. The two vjctories followed three losses that accounted for Indiana's longest-losing streak in seven years and knocked the Hoosiers out of the nation's Top 25. 
But will the success last? "I look at it always with mixed emotions when we get in a situation occasionally like we're in 

Photo courtesy of Indiana University Sports Information Hoosier coach Bobby Knight looks for a solution to his team's inconsistent play. 
now," Knight said. "We'd have been pretty 
tough to beat over the course of 12 Big Ten 
games playing like we did (against Penn State). 
"But think back this year, and how many 
points we kind of squandered away at the end of 
the first half and beginning of the second half. 
Those have always been in my thinking two 
important points in the game," Knight said. 
"With the good teams we've had (in the past), in 
the second half, in three minutes, it's over. But, 
boy, with us, we keep everybody guessing." 
On Saturday, Indiana led Ohio State by 13 at 
the half. The Buckeyes cut the lead to three 
points in the first four minutes of the second half 
before the Hoosiers came back to win 93-76. 
Tuesday night, Indiana's 27-point halftime lead 
against Penn State dwindled to 17 midway 
through the second half before the Hoosiers 
regrouped. 
"We've played this way before and turned ar?und and haven't played very well," Knight said. "Sure, I would hope it would (indicate a trend), but who knows?" 

ENTERTAINMENT YOUR WAY! 

Wedding Receptions are Our Specialty




Snite Museum Shop 
• Over 20 Disk jockeys 

BOOKING AGENCY 
§Valentine's Q)ay and JPW 
219-243-9204 
including a wide variety of music 
• 
Uve Bands 

• 
String Quartets 


• 
Pianists and Harpists 

• 
Vocalists 

• 
And Featuring Moonlight Oasis: A blend of OJ, MC. vocalist and light show 




I{EOUGH • KAFE Come IGck it with the 'Roos 
GREAT ACOUSfiC MUSIC & KOFFEE 
Every Monday beginning February 17~ 1997 from 9-11 pm at Keough Hall 


Any interestedperformers, musicians or poets contact 
Andy Brenner @ 634-1693 www.nd.edu/'"'abrenner/keoughkafe
hours: 9-5 pm 631-7961 
at least 




30%off 
ALL ITEMS 
(no other discount applies) 
Look for additional discounts on selected items: sweat shirts • t -shirts • art books • mugs note cards for all occasions • and more! 
page 18 The Observer • SPORTS Friday, February 14, 1997 
Tracksters gear up for Big East Tournament 
in the pole vault since the be­ginning of the season. He vaulted well at the Michigan Invitational and finished up the regular season with a solid per­formance at the Central Collegiate Championships. 
Cochran also has followed a similar pattern. He finished in third place at Michigan in the 200-meters, and last week at the Central Collegiate Championships he finished in seventh place in the 400-me­ters. Engelhardt is part of the freshman triumvirate that will keep the Irish women success­ful for years to come. 
She qualified for the NCAA indoor championships in the high jump and rounds out one of Notre Dame's best track teams in years. 
All coaches point to the play­offs and now the playoffs nave arrived for the Irish track team. Long-distance runners were rested last weekend and other participants had excellent tunc­ups for the upcoming meet. It is time for Notre Dame to put the crunch on the other Big East teams. 

Du,cks, RabbitsJS!rechauns 
Experience the natural serenity qf North Shore Club, just minutesJrom Notre Dame. 
• 
A wise investment for alumni, faculty and parents 

• 
Townhomes and condominiums from $84,990 

• 
Waterfront views • Exterior maintenance provided Come visit us at $~;,'<-.,. 


North Shore Club ~,~J 
Angela at the St. joseph River • South Bend 
Furnished Models Open Dai(y 
Sat. & Sun. 12-5 p.m. • Mon.-Fri. 10 a.m.-6 p.m. 


By WILLY BAUER 
Sports Writer 
The regular season has ended and now it's crunch time. 
The year's biggest time for the Notre Dame indoor track team is the Big East champi­onships, this weekend in Syracuse, New York. 
At the beginning of the sea­son, coach Joe Piane said that he was "pleased" with the Irish's third place finish. After seeing how this season has gone so far, he may not be so "pleased" with an equivalent standing. 
Both the men and women's team will have to rely on its various strengths to put the Irish on the victory stand. Providence and Georgetown are two of the Big East's best teams, and will be the Irish's primary competition. 
So far this season, the men have received contributions from varied events. From the first time junior Errol Williams stepped onto the track in Michigan, he has dominated the 60-meter hurdles. If he can touch his season-best time in the 60-meter hurdles Big East teams will be hard-pressed to find an athlete who can com­pete with Williams. 
The women have also found a star in the hurdles, but she will 


• TRACK AND fiELD 


be staying around a little longer than Williams. Freshman Dominque Calloway has been leaving fire-trails over all the tracks that she has ran on and has positioned herself as an important cog in the Irish run­ning machine. 
Aside from Calloway, the Irish women boast strong sprints team with sophomore Nadia Schmiedt and senior Alison Howard. 
In contrast with the women, the men have a strong distance team led by senior Jeff Hojnacki. Hojnacki's stability in the long-distance races will be one of the keys the Irish will rely on this weekend. 
Two freshmen will be heavily counted on this weekend to continue their early season suc­cesses. Long-jumper Marshaun West and long-distance runner Joanna Deeter each have rev­eled in the spotlight. Deeter has ran well in three events; 3,000 and 5,000-meters and the mile. Coach Tim Connelly gave her a day off last week­end, allowing her to rest for the Big East meet. 
Almost as if they are icing on top of a cake, the Irish have re­ceived strong efforts from se­nior David Gerrity, freshmen Chris Cochran and Jennifer Engelhardt. 
Gerrity has been a mainstay 

Chicago Bulls vs. San Antonio Spurs 
Wednesday, March 5 
219-232-2002. 800-404-4275 




CHICAGO BULLS 

WORLD CHAMPIONS 1991•1992•1993•1996 

Game time: 7 PM (Chicago time) 
Limited number of tickets on> sale now at the LaFortune Info Desk Cost: $25 per game ticket 
(no transportation) 2tickets per student I D 
Brought to you by Student Activities 
--------·----------------------~-----~------­
-----·-~------------­
Friday, February 14, 1997 The Observer • SPORTS 
1996-97 
MHoops 
continued from page 24
Basketba 
seemed primed to upset, but the VU squad pulled away to 68-57 victory
League Games All Games 

Team W L W L 
after Notre Dame's offense stagnat­ed.
BE 6 
Since that time, it seems thatBoston things have indeed changed for both teams.
Viiian Although Villanova is the only ranked team in the Big East at No. 18, they are fighting through a two­game losing streak and may have peaked a little early. "They seem to have flattened out since we last played them," Irish center Matt Gotsch evaluated. "Don't get me wrong, they're still a great team, but they haven't really improved from our last time." This assessment is in direct con­trast with Gotsch and his team's progress over the last month. Since the last meeting between the Irish and the Wildcats, head 
coach John MacLeod has lead his squad on a 5-2 conference run as the pieces have slowly come togeth­er. 
"We're not the same team we were a month ago," Gotsch assert­ed. "We've been steadily improving to the point where I think this game will be a much better contest." 
Wildcat rookie Tim Thomas, the leading scorer and rebounder from the previous contest, has continued to impress. 
Junior Derek Manner, fresh off a strong defensive outing against West Virginia's Damian Owens, will have to keep himself at that level to play with the talented freshman. 
Hopefully, as he did with Owens', he will go for a bit of revenge against Thomas. 
Power forward Chuck Kornegay will be back to square up with Notr.e Dame's Garrity. 
In the last contest, Kornegay physically punished his counterpart for the majority of the game. But this time, Garrity should have some 
Please recycle The Observer 
& Buck, Nlke, S/azenger 




~-ltliltst 
219-63 1-6425 
page 19 
teammates at his back. 
Guards Admore White and Pete Miller have lit up the arenas recently with touch shooting and deft ball-handling. 
The duo poured in seven from long-distance in Tuesday's victory over the Mountaineers, and will need to continue to play strong to keep defensive pressure from focusing on Garrity. 
Miller, who suffered a mild con­cussion in Tuesday's game, will play, but it is uncertain whether or not he will start against the Wildcats. 
"It's great to see Admore White and Pete Miller doing the things that they're doing," said MacLeod. "They have grown into a yery inter­esting back court. They both have that determination and that grit. And they both come after you." 
So as it stands, Notre Dame couldn't be more prepared as a team to head back to Wildcat coun­try. 
The 'Cats are down, the Irish dancing a jig. But how the plot will twist this weekend, most Notre Dame fans will have to find out on TV as the Big East turns. 

Juniors! -One More Year and.then ... Consider the Possibilities! 
esc Time flies, as they say. Most Juniors and their families are begin­ning to reflect upon just how fast the college years are going and 
that when they return to campus next year, it's the big one-Senior c E N T E R F o R Year! And then what?!? One of the great traditions at the University S 0 C 1 A L of Notre Dame is the commitment to a year or more of full-time volun­
teer service work after graduation. Between 10-12% of each year'~ c__o_N_C_E_R_N_s_ graduating class each year makes this commitment to teach, work in a 
shelter, counsel, mentor, do youth ministry, work in an inner-city health 
clinic, or engagein a wide variety ofotherworkexperiences with peoplein needsponsored by 
a secular orfaith based organization irr the'U;S ..of''abr6ad;. ''-!_'7•<mij ··· "·:fw:'f t:a•··\''' ··· Prl:;wnis<' 
" ·'.a;= =-·u:".s:r.un:r.}·:;· .... f":l"'(ln-:,."';.f::~-·. <?<ih..-V~.:·:.=· :···('{~g.·.= ''=.::w ', =·.====~n.:.:tnpx .... A~·<~st!JUC ""Df~{.n~,;~:tr·.~ .... ;h~(f tn:s.~ A:r:-;;i~;iaft:$ ... 
M~n:;s~v~l~~~d!6%~?i~~:~~~v~1~~i~~;I?~~r~~~~l~~~~%i~~~~::~:xa~:~~:,t:::Uall 
stipend, meqtorivg, t~ai.i)igg;_~l1~1 .tne'6ppgqtiqiWJ91t,~~~;~«''~.itQp:I~:~Ji~~§~Xl~l~,::spmmunity with 
other volunteers. The fact is, there are hundreds ofthese opportunities and;the Center for 
. . . . : : . :·. '>'$> : :_.·· . :\ :$!>fi~>''t('l . .. it~:..,. :,, ,.,:..... . ./ . . ' ~ :. ······., ... . : 
Social Concerns, through its·office for Senior Year,Transition Progial)ls,j,s dydicated to ~elp­
ing students and alums to discern JheirJeve1 of interest and commitment th service work ~nd to 
• <.f':,.;... r~.:r /( ··. ........ v· .......: ·. ·. ~ 
providing the information and r:esources I)ecessaryfdr finding the right program for each! indi­
vidual. <.. · ·····•· ,'i) h'fi''(!•' ,,, 8l< ,.----· ! 
: ~ ::
".4 fter I g~aduated.in Ma~of199~ (with an a~counting degree), I did_a_Year ofvolu~ree~ .f":l. work with the Vmcentian Servzce Corp$•... m Stamps, Arkansas. Lzvm,g and·'Workzng m 
}.? t: ';'~it p .:: ,.> .. .· •.. : ····...· :' ··. ..·· ...· f.·~>-::,.:.· ... ! 
an area so ravaged by poverty and. despair gave meanewpersp~ctil?,(J ofllife:' J began to see 
how urgent thin.ee(is to heipthe poq,tin our country, but ~lso hq_w diffictilt(md slow the 
process is." Brad Grabs U92) ,, "~"~~ \ ( ,, . %';X'>',::-.....,·~­
,-/ A,,i ' : ~. (i~df"tn ''-'······~--···· ·,~-·.;.·· ··<· 
J~n~~:~:i?t~~~t:~~~iilt~:;i:~o~~Wt~f~~t~~~~~~~a~;~~l~:;~e;~o::~k;~~ ~.~:to 
meet and talk ~itq}lfe p(§gra~' s Dir~~~gf; M.~lJ,f¢t(l,1.;S,l<:t~.~s,k,~~,~~ijst,tg]jck up. a copy·bf th~ Post-Grad~a.te Service Haqdbdok aqd ~eg!n ~he journey:,o(co.ptinuing to _serve and learn as an 
integral part.·ofoe!nga 't{tict~nt'and an':a1Um'~9ti6e'lJiliv~rsity .zt.JJ6tfe.n:ilii~:~1~n~llfin'M:tr;;e~ient:i'wti~t_· '"~"·-~~rtstW,'ii'4pP.~lilill'~7i:~rweiit''w4s~tzyalU4~1'rand.has shaped 1wh~,,!:~.'f' t~day" an{IJ~~,gfl;~~~~tl!ct~~-~,.~qy$ r~~f!!rf(!:1;::.~~·~;t~\~~,c}~;,~~ll~~g;,t~~9) 
Upcoming Important Dates 
NEW CSC LEADERSHIP MODULES: 
The 7 Habits ofHighly Effective People 
Fridays 2/14 &21 
Two session workshop by Kathleen Sullivan, Ph.D. 3:00-4:45p.m. at the esc. 
Responsible Budgeting Workshop Sunday 2/23 
Student Group budget preparation, stewardship session. 
3:00 -5:00p.m. at the esc. 
Ethics and Leadership Wednesday 3/26 
Organizational ethics and leadership by Jim Davis, Ph.D. 6:00-8:00p.m. at the COBA. 
Images of the Leader in Film Sunday4/20 
Popular culture views of leadership in American film By Kathy Royer, Director of Community Partnerships and Service Learning 3:00-5:00 p.m. at the esc 
INTERNSHIPS AVAILABLE: 
African-American Leadership Intern Apply By: 3/3 
10 weeks of service and $2,300 tuition scholarships. 3 credits, THEO. Chicago, Detroit, possibly other sites . 
Hispanic Leadership Intern Apply By: 3/3 
10 weeks of service and $2,300 tuition scholarships. 3 credits, THEO. Chicago, San Diego, possibly other sites. 
Special Note: Information session about these internship possibilities will be held the week of2/17 at the CSC. Cal for details 631-5293. 
SPECIAL NOTE: 
Monthly Hospitality Luncheon Thursday 2/20 To benefit St. Margaret's house in South Bend. 11:30-1:00 p.m., $3.00 per person. 
-


page 20 The Observer· SPORTS Friday, February 14, 1997 
... 
• SOFTBAll 

Notre Dame and Connecticut atop preseason polls 


Trouble with your FAFSA or Profile? 
-WE CAN HELP! Joe Russo, Director of Financial Aid, will be discussing these forms and answering your questions Marianist Voluntary Service Communities 
Monday,February 17
•
Men and women age 20 and over 

•Committed 
Christians 

•
Willing to give a year ofservice 


8 p.m. Dooley Room 
•Living in community, simply & prayerfully 
MVSC 
1st Floor of LaFortune
P.O. Box 9224 Wright Bros. Branch Dayton, OH 45409 

BROUGHT TO YOU BY THE STUDENT GOVERNMENT 
937-229-4630 (phone) • 937-229-2772 (fox) 
DEPARTMENT OF FINANCIAL AID 
UOIIWIOUUn>HnTU o ..., 
lt•noOT r,".,...,,~,

MVSC@saber. udayton. edu (e-mail) 


Softball squad favored to win South division 
Special to The Observer 
The University of Connecticut and the University of Notre Dame were unanimously cho­sen to win their respective di­visional titles in the 1997 Big East Softball race. 
By a vote of the league's head coaches, both UConn and the Fighting Irish received seven first-place votes for 28 points. 
The Huskies, last year's Big East tournament champions, are expected t0 win the North Division, while the Blue and Gold is the favorite in the South Division. Notre Dame ended its inaugural year in the Big East with a 19-1 conference record and 48-16 overall. 
The Irish claimed their first ever at-large bid to the NCAA Tournament.· Head coach Liz Miller, the 1996 Big East Coach of the Year, returns '96 Big East Player of the year Meghan Murray and co-Rookie of the Year Angela Bessolo. 

Rutgers, also new to the con­ference last season, was picked to finish second in the South Division. The Scarlet Knights received 20 points in the pre­season poll. Villanova advanced to the 1996 Big East Championship and finished with a 30-19 record, 10-8 in the league. 
The Wildcats garnered one first-place vote for 18 points. Seton Hall, under the direction of first-year coach Ray Vandermay, received ten points to close out the South Division. 
Connecticut has won six of the last seven Big East tournaments and defeated the Irish 1-0 in last year's title game. 
The Huskies advanced to the NCAA Tournament for the sev­enth time in the past eight years. 
UConn finished the 1996 sea­son 34-22 overall and 16-4 in conference action. 
The Huskies return the tournament's Most Outstanding Player and the 1996 Big East Pitcher of the year Bridget McCaffery and Big East co­Rookie of the Year, Allyson Johnson. 
Picked to finished second in the North 
under the direction of new head sional opponents twice. coach Kim Staehle. The Big East Softball 
The teams will continue their Championship will be held on 20-game schedule this season, May 3-4 at the Connecticut playing divisional opponents Softball Field on the University four times each and non-divi-of Connecticut campus. 
, 




Friday, February 14, 1997 
Woinen 
continued from page 24 
said. "Everybody got in foul trouble on Wednesday and we can't afford to do that because our bench is not as deep as it was." 
The lineup for the Domers will thus consist of smaller, quicker players as they have only three natural post players healthy. 
Center Katryna Gaither con­tinues to lead the Big East in scoring as she is second in rebounding averaging 19.7 ppg and 8.8 rpg. 
Senior Rosanne Bohman is 
enjoying her finest season 
wearing the Blue and Gold as 
she contributes over nine 
LEGAL SECRETARY WANTED: 
Fast-growing law firm in University Park Mall area requires receptionist/office assistant familiar with WordPerfect 6.1 for Windows. Full or part time. 
Send resume to: P.O. Box 511 Notre Dame, IN 46556. 


Finance Club Chicago Trip 

Thursday and Friday of Spring Break Week -March 13th and 14th 
points and five boards a con­test. 
The strength of the Friars lies in their frontcourt as Nadine Malcolm is second in the conference with 19.3 ppg and is third in rebounding hauling in 8.1 rpg. 
Her teammate Kerri Chatten is also in the top ten in scoring and rebounding with 16.1 ppg and 7.8 rpg. So the Irish will look to Henderson to play more minutes with the limited players with post play experi­ence. 
On the outside guard/for-· ward Beth Morgan rebounded from a poor shooting outing against Connecticut to regain her stroke as she lead the team with 17 points, which is also her average. 
Guards Mollie Peirick and Jeannine Augustin will run the 

The Observer • SPORTS 
offense as the squad looks to refine their game with the post-season just around the corner. 
"We're just taking each game the same way all of eight us are going to have to play our hardest," Henderson said. 
"Our goal is to get a little better each game, particularly on the fast break game and in rebounding." 
This Sunday the Irish will venture to Providence with hopes that more good news is in their future as their regu­lar season winds down and they head into post season play and a lik"ely rematch with the top ranked Connecticut The Observer/Mike Ruma . 
He:a? coach Muffet McGraw has seen several players on her squad fall 
Huskies in the Big East 
to InJures, but the team refuses to fall in the ran kings. 

0TitAi IHousEi 
RESTAVRANT I Happy Valentine's Day I 
Spend your Valentine's Day with us. ~ 
Each couple gets a free flower I 
257-4875 i 
15% discount when you bring in ad! I 

HOUSE ci BUSINESS HOURS D 0 a:: Mon.-Thur. ~ 11am-9pm Martins K-Mart ~ Fri.-Sat. 11am-10pm " Sun. 12-Spm 508 1111. McKinle Mishawaka, IN 


Signups in Finance Dept. Office 
:"ANDERSEN 
last day -Friday February 21st 
CONSULTING 

seven 
• 
Stay at the Chicago Downtown Marriott Thursday and Friday night 

• 
Tentative visits include: 


• 
The Chicago Board of Trade 

• 
LaSalle National Bank-ABN/AMRO bank 

• 
Andersen Consulting -ND's largest employer 




two 

• 
Morgan Stanley-investment bankers 

• 
Merrill Lynch -financial services 

• 
The Chicago Stock Exchange 


Price: $70 

Includes hotel and roundtrip ticket on the
ABN•AMRO -TheNellNorkBank· 
South Shore 

MORGAN STANLEl' 
I 

• Chicago Board of Trade 

0 
even 
~Merrill Lynch 
ERASMUS BOOKS 
r, Used books bought and rold 
• 
25 categories of Books 

• 
25,000 Hardback & Paperback 

hooks in stock •Out-of-Print Search Service:$2.00 

•
Appraisals large and small 


Open noon to six Tuesda~ through Sunday 1027 E. Wayne South Bend, IN 46617 
(219) 232-8444 
We care. From the day you move in, our friendly, profes­sional staff will give you great service. Great location, great service, great price ... Hickory Village has what you need. Come by and see for yourself! 
Efficiencies from $290 1-Bedrooms from $305 2-Bedrooms from $375 
24-hour Emergency Maintenance Service Attentive Stall • Cable TV Available Free Aerobics Classes Laundry Room in Every Building Ar:res of Rolling Lawns and Trees Pool, Sundeck &Clubhouse Close to Great Shopping Air Conditioning 
Call or stop by today and y,e'll show you how great living at Hickory Village Cll1 be. • 

page 22 The Observer • SPORTS Friday, February 14, 1997 
• fOOTBALl ranked in the top ten teams nationally, the Irish split a home
Challenge 
series, winning one game by three goals and losing a hard­

Sanford named new QB coach continued from page 24 
fought second game by one tally. 
The pressure is indeed off the Irish now, as they have nowhere to go but up. Notre Dame trails Ohio State and the final playoff spot by three points with five games left in the season. Notre Dame will be hard pressed to pick up any points this weekend. but Ohio State plays Western Michigan and Bowling Green. teams which the Buckeyes are capable of beating. 
Thus, in a best-case scenario, Notre Dame will not lose any ground and will then have 3 games in which to make up three points. 
In a worst-case scenario, and the fruition of worst-case sce­narios seems to be the Irish' motif this year, the Boys would be down seven points with three games to play, a deficit which they could not mathematically surmount. 
But, in the words of Noble, "it's time to forget all the num­bers and go play hockey." 
10:00* 1:00 4:00 7:00 9:45 
Dante's Peak IPG-13) in DTS 
1:45 4:30 7:15 9:50 
That Dam Cat (PG) 
12:00 2:00 4:15 6:30 9:00 
Fools Rush In (PG-13) 
2:15 4:45 7:30 10:00 
Beautician & the Beast IPGI 
1:30 4:15 6:45 9:30 
Scream (R) 
2:30 5:00 7:45 10:10 
Shown on 2 Screens 
1:00* 2:00* 4:00 4:45 7:00 7:30 9:50 10:10 
The Relic IRI 
1:45* 4:30 7:15 10:00 
• Saturday, Sunday & Monday Only 
Special to The Observer 
Former USC quarterback Mike Sanford, Trojan assistant head coach and a mem­ber of the USC football staff since 1989, has been named quarterback coach at the University of 
Sanford Notre Dame by head coach Bob Davie. 
Sanford's appointment final­izes Davie's crew of assistant coaches heading into 1997, his first season as Irish head coach. 
Sanford fills the slot vacated when Irish offensive co­ordinator and quarterback coach Dave Roberts became head coach at Baylor. 
The 41-year-old Sanford brings with him 18 years of ex­perience working with the passing game, after coaching the Trojan receivers the last eight seasons. 

At USC he coached three first-team All-Americans in flanker Curtis Conway, wide receiver Jonnie Morton and wide receiver Keyshawn Johnson-and five players who earned all-Pac-10 honors. 
Conway, Morton, and Johnson all became first-round National Football League draft picks in 1993, 1994 and 1996, respectively, with Johnson earning the honor of being the first overall pick. Morton, who set 12 Pac-1 0 and USC receiv­ing marks, remains the Trojans' leading career re­ceiver. 
When John Robinson was hired as USC head coach prior to the '93 season, Sanford was the only full-time assistant re­tained from previous coach Larry Smith's staff. During 
The Observer/ Mike Ruma 

Irish signal caller Ron Powlus will take instructions from a new coach next year as Bob Davie completed his staff with Mike Sanford. 
CINEMA AT THE SNITE 
presented by Notre Dame Communication and Theatre 
631-7361 

Sanford's eight seasons with the Trojans, USC played in six bowl games-the Rose Bowl following the '89 season, the John Hancock in '90, the Freedom in '92 and '93, the Cotton in '94 and the Hose in '95. 
Prior to returning to USC, Sanford spent two seasons as quarterbacks and wide re­ceivers coach at Long Beach State (1983-86), two seasons as quarterbacks, wide receivers and tight ends coach at Army (1979-80) under Lou Saban. 
He also served as offensive coordinator his last two years at Long Beach State (1985-86), with his teams ranking among the top ten in passing each season. 
He coached 49er quarter­back Doug Gaynor, who set four NCAA career records (he averaged 308.8 passing yards per game and threw for 3,563 yards in '85), and Mark Templeton, who set the NCAA career pass-catching mark (262 career catches for 1, 969 yards, including 99 when he led the nation in '86). 
Sanford coordinated the passing offense during his tenure at VMI, served as de­fensive coordinator at San Diego City College in 1978 and began his coaching career as a USC graduate assistant under Robinson in 1977. 
Sanford spent four years (1973-76) as a reserve quar­terback and safety at USC ­starting one game at quarter­back in 1975 against Washington and playing on Trojan teams that qualified for the Rose Bowl three of his four seasons. 
A 1978 USC graduate with a degree in physical education, he earned all-Northern California honors as a high school senior quarterback at Los Altos High School. 
Ill 
:z: 
1­


to work," stated head coach and former NHL all-star Dave Poulin. "That's the only way I know how to do it." 
"It was tough, losing those games," stated junior captain Steve Noble. "But now we have nothing to lose. We just have to go and play hockey and make the best of the last five regular season games." 
The line-up for this weekend's games remains in doubt. After Friday's night's debacle (a 5-2 drubbing by Ohio State which Poulin later dubbed "our worst effort of the season"), Poulin elected to sit several regulars in favor of walk-on additions to the team. Whether those players will suit up again tonight remains unknown. 
One criticism of the Notre Dame hockey team has been its failure to respond in pressure situations. For instance, against St. Cloud State, a team that is not in the CCfiA but that is 

FRIDAY, FEB 14 AND SATURDAY, FEB 15 
7:30 and 9:30 p.m. $2 
http://www.nd.edu/-cothweb/wwwsnite.html 

Friday, Febrj.lary 14, 1997 The Observer • TODAY page 23 

ED LEADER YOUR HOROSCOPE 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY! IN THE NEXT YEAR OF YOUR LIFE: Pacing yourself will allow you to accomplish great things. Curb a ten­dency to flit from one project to another. A romantic interlude will be a shining beacon of hope. Give seri­ous thought to going into business with a friend. A savvy partner could help you put a financial venture on solid footing. A summer job will lead to a really great employment offer next fall. Build on what you already have. Follow up when intro­duced to prominent people. 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: actress Molly Ring­wald, dancer Gregory Hines, leg­endary comedian Jack Benny, ice skater JoJo Starbuck. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): You need to forge ahead with your plans. It is time to make a decision and let the chips fall where they may. You will be astonished at how much you accomplish. 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): A day when triumphs outnumber set­backs. Be open-minded when approached by people who do not share your views. What can you lose by listening? Do something special for yourself. 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Someone's advice may be complete­ly off the wall. Although an associ­ate's unpredictable behaviQr is a source of concern, things should work out fine if you remain patient. 
CANCER (June 21-July 22):
SCOTT ADAMS 

Although good ideas are plentiful today, you may have difficulty implementing them. Record these suggestions for future use. Close 
1 OE.M~ND THI\T YOU 
INITIATE.. DISCIPLINARY 
attention to detail is a must when handling money matters.
1\GAINST 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): An obstacle can be eliminated if you move quickly. Contact someone 
__._..____________,7i"L.....Jw.;;o= 
.......~...L..I=-----.-J 

·­

• 

Yes, we love you too, but don't forget about your family and friends. Let them know how much each of them means to you. 
-

CREAM O'THE VALLEY ROAD 
who works behind the scenes and ask for practical advice. This evening, sit back and let romance unfold at its own sweet pace. 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Self-discipline is the key to getting ahead at work. Teaming up with the right partner is important, too. Look beyond trivial differences. Be more discriminating about who you date. 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): You will need additional financial figures in order to capitalize on a business opportunity. Postpone a major deci­sion until next week. Two heads will work better than one. 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21 ): Give business and finance top prior­ity this morning and you make valu­able progress. A touchy friend may be difficult to deal with. Try various approaches. 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Keep things low key. Although your intentions are good, you are easily distracted from work. Be skeptical when someone repeats a rumor. Keep your feet on the ground. 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Play the romantic to the hilt! Shower your loved one with choco­lates, flowers and cards. An influen­tial older person will be impressed by your ardent pursuit. 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Already lucky in love, you hope to achieve the same success in busi­ness. A group's assistance will make a wish come true. Your instincts lead you·ill a promising new direction. 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): A well-connected individual may have a hidden agenda. Guard your resources. A love relationship looks blissful. Strengthen marital ties while your partner is in an affection­ate mood. 


MOTHER GOOSE & GRIMM 

Wanted: Reporters, photographers and editors. 


30 Took unfair advantage of 
31 Fr. title 32Aiice's 
restaurant? 34 Word in society 36 Fries, 
usually 
38 Count Basie's "--Darlin"' 
41 "Haste makes waste," e.g. 
43 Like a crone 44 Reddish-brown 49 Offspring 45Submit 50 Chow chow, 46 Pass twice fTlaybe 47 Weave in and 51 Bring in the 

out sheaves 48Aromatic 52 Moon chemical feature 
Answers to any three clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420-5656 (75¢ per minute). 
Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
DILBERT 
M.'( RM5E DIDN'T GO 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 10 A-one 11 Without warranty 
12 Fictional suit-changer 13 Globe plotter 
15 Boorish jokester's question 
21 --es Salaam 24 Wine county 11 Race pace 
26 "Au I~ Lang 
27 Growing room 28Mom'smom 29 "Dragnet" org. 
57 Pussyfooted 58 Kitchen drawer gadget 59 Monthly since 1850 
DOWN 
1 Protected, as an estate 2Skip 
3 "Careless Hands" singer, 1949 
4 Aviary sound 5 Desert dreams, perhaps 6 Of doubtful 
morals 7 Got the better of a Engage in 
bar-hopping? 9 Expiate, with "for" 

CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 
1 Just sit, as soup or coffee 8 Empire State leader 
14lsland song aka "Farewell to Thee" 
15 Emulate Bobby Shaftoe 16 Becomes bored with 17 Like Romeo and Juliet, in Actli 18 1980's Attorney General 19 Takes care of 20 Tank carrier? 22 Toodle-oo 23 Bugs in lines 27 Flickering 
33 Easily tnpped up 35 Jam-packed 36 Think about, at night 37 Mountaineer's descent 38 Well-schooled 39 Prefix with scope 40 Aforementioned 
42 Certain mounts 
501988 earthquake site 
53 Cry at a basketball arena 
54 Ahead 
55 Blow up 
56 One out? 








SPORTS Ul'eek n 


page 24 Friday, February 14, 1997 

• 
-
... 
• MEN's BASKETBAll 

By DAVE TREACY A.<.sociate Sports Editor 
As the Big East turns, surprising plot reversals and unsuspecting endings have created some build-up for Sunday's contest between Notre Dame and Villanova at the CoreStates Center in Philadelphia. 
• HOCKEY 
The last time these two teams faced each other, the story was Notre Dame's inability to find anyone to help Pat Garrity on the floor, while the Wildcats' triumverate of Jason Lawson, Tim Thomas, and Alvin Williams played a typical, dominating game. The Irish closed the gap midway through the second half and 
see MHOOPS I page 19 

leers need to finish strong 
from a 6-game losing streak. With their playoff aspirations all but dissipating in last weekend's frustrating back-to-hack losses to then-number nine Ohio State, nothing seems to be going right for our Boys. So how does a team recuperate from such a terrible weekend? "We go back 
see CHALLENGE I page 22 By CHARLEY GATES Sports Writer 

"A man's got to do what a man's got to do," is an aphorism passed on from father to son whenever the son faces an unpleasant task. 
This phrase, however, could be modified to read, "a hockey team's got to do what a hockey team's got to do," and then it would be perfectly germane to the Notre Dame hockey squad, which travels to Ann Arbor this weekend for a pair of games against the top ranked Michigan Wolverines. 
Describing the Irish's task as "unpleasant," however, would be greatly understating it. Michigan, the 1995-96 NC champion, has dropped only two games all season and, in the only meeting between the teams thus far, blew out Notre Dame 5-0 on Nov. 1 at the Joyce Center. 
That the Wolverines are so potent should be no surprise; from last year's team they returned 93 percent of their goal scoring, their starting goal­tender, four defenseman who played critical roles in the team's 9-0 March run, and Breandan Morrison, whose accolades include CCHA Player­of-the-Year and The Hockey News U.S. College Player of the Year awards. 
The Boys of Winter, on the other hand, sit dead last in the CCHA and currently are reeling 

Benoit Contoir looks to upset the top ranked Michigan Wolverines. 
Pw 
vs. Syracuse 
Today 
• New QB coach named 

S¢ 
Basketball at Franklin 
February 15, 1 p.m . see page 22 Swimming at Liberal Arts 

• Track and Field preview 

~ Invitational, February 20 see page 18 





