

Thursday, April10, 1997 • Vol. XXX No. 122 THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Long-standing dream becomes a reality. .. 
University clears way for WVFI to go FM 
By BRAD PRENDERGAST University's officers had accept­South Bend community. Editor-in-Chief ed WVFI's proposal to seek FM Presently, the station can only status with the Federal be picked up by select dorms 
Tucked into office folders in Communications Commission. around the campus. the WVFI-AM radio station are For Mike Flood, station man­correspondence letters -some ager of WVFI, the announce­written 35 years ~~;go -by for­ment represented the culmina­mer 
tion of a plan that he had pur­managers. sued since the fall of 1995. describing their "We've been doing this for so wishes to join long ... It's all we've been doing the FM band. for the last two years," Flood 
Last night, p.1) said. "It's the biggest deal the Patricia 0'Hara. L----;;---;;:---;----" station has ever seen." vice president of Student The move to FM will allow the 

ever seen.·
Affairs, announced that those station to replace its present dreams had become a reality. AM carrier current with a 100­

Speaking at the annual watt broadcasting system that Mike Flood Student Leadership Banquet, will expand the station's listen­O'llara informed an audience ing range to as much as four in the Joyce Center's miles, encompassing Saint Flood and the staff at WVFI Monogram Hoom that the Mary's College and areas of the now begin work on obtaining a 

Davie turns to stultents 
By DAN CICHALSKI new position. He Associate News Editor expressed a desire to continue 
Head football coach Bob the Notre Dame Davie reached out to the football tradition students last night. In an while also making informal talk at the some changes DeBartolo auditorium, that will appeal to Davie asked for their help the various in establishing a closer groups of people relationship between connected to the themselves and the foot­Fighting Irish ­ball team. the administra­
Discussing his plans for tion, the student the team, the upcoming body, the alumni, fall season and his new the fans and the responsibilities as head players. coach, Davie made an D a v i e effort to get to know the announced at the Notre Dame student body beginning of his in order to relate with it lecture that he better and further the would pass out deyelopment of the foot­envelopes at the ball program. end for the stu­
"I think we have a lot in dents to write common," Davie said. down any sugges­referring to the junior tions they might class, who sponsored the have regarding talk. "We're both finish­the team and stu­ing our third year here at dent involvement. Notre Dame and we're The envelope, L------­entering a year we're 
a 1 r e a d y ·''"''"·· . . .·.'· ,,
both going to remember addressed to Davie addresses a question fronrthe for the rest of our lives." Davie at the foot-Jor the team; · > 
Speaking to a rather ball offiee, con­sparse crowd scattered tained a blank sheet of youto write. dow~ any~ throughout the room, paper. t g you }:an, thi!lK of>; Davie reflected on his "I want your input," way that I can gefthe · first few months in his Davie explained. "I want student body more 
• RESIDENCE HALL ASSOCIATION 
SMC announces partial election tally 
Observer Staff Report 
Even after yesterday's residence hall elections at Saint Mary's, questions still exist regarding hall leadership in Holy Cross, Regina and Annunciata Ilalls. 
Hesidence Hall Association vice president-elect and elections commissioner Barbara Nolan announced election results for the executive offi­cers for LeMans and McCandless Halls last night. There were no results to report for the remaining three halls, however, as students failed to show an interest in exe·eutive board postitions. 
Jenn Cervantes, Courtney Merris, Betsy Lamora and Johanna Tario will comprise the executive board of LeMans Hall, taking 60 percent of the vote. The competing ticket comprised of Jen Nelson, Melanie Garman, Carin Hansen and Shelly Hichter took 37 percent of votes, with three percent abstaining. 
"We have a lot of new ideas, and we're excited about next year," said LeMans president-elect Cervantes. "We plan to focus on getting students involved from the beginning, and establish more unity in the hall, since it's so large. 
"We've all had experience with RHA. and would like (for hall council) to continue to work togeth­er," Cervantes continued. 
Taking 96 percent of the vote for McCandless hall was Gina Gurreso, Kat Rademacher, Penelope Kistka and Sharis Long, running unop­posed. Four percent of voters abstained. 
According to RHA officials, the remaining resi­dence halls will hold elections in the fall. 
The Board of Governance Constitution stipu­lates that freshmen may only hold elected student government positions on their class ·board. Therefore, the incoming class of 2001 will not 
see RHA/ page 6 
license for the FM band from the FCC, a process that will probably last until August 1998. 
The first step involves hiring an attorney to conduct a search for available frequencies on the FM diAl, Flood said. As a non­commercial, educational sta­tion, WVFI will be nestled in the high 80s or low 90s of the FM band, similar to where WSND 
88.9 resides. 
The search for a place on the band will last about two months, according to Adele Lanan, assistant director of Student Activities and adviser to the station. 
"The FCC will look at the for­mat of WVFI and see if there's a glut of similar stations," Lanan said, noting the station's focus on the college, alternative style music. "Obviously, they [the FCC] won't find that in this area. I'm pretty sure everything will work out." 
As an FM station, WVFI will have to follow regulations that are stricter than those imposed on the AM band. Besides keep­ing updated engineering logs and public inspection files, WVFI also will have to abide by the FCC's standards on accept­able language on the air, pro­vide news and weather reports, and implement the emergency action system. , 
But according to Lanan and Flood, that won't be a problem. "They're already doing regu­lar newscasts for example. 
see WVFI I page 6 

Students look to define 'the dream' 
By MICHELLE KRUPA 
This Saturday, local students will reinvent the American Dream -or at least define it in their own perspectives -as part of National Deliberation Day (NDD). 
The event, organized by the Foundation for Individual Responsibility and Social Trust (FIRST), will take place in over a do?:en states and will incor­porate discussion on a wide variety of topics which influence the political, social, and moral visions that 18-through 35-year-old people have about the future. 
On campus at the Center for Social Concerns from 9 a.m. to 1 p.m., Notre Dame's NDD will be based on issues that students bring to the platform and follow in the prescribed theme of the event, "Reinventing the American Dream: a vision for the next century." 
"We will be discussing issues concerned with rein­venting the American dream. We will talk about what the dream has been, focusing on two specific questions: 'What was it to our parents?' and 'What do we want it to be for our kids?,"' Vieira said. 
He plans to bring up a number of issues to the conference but claims that the discourse will not be limited to his ideas. "I will start off the day suggest­ing possible discussion topics such as the future of urban America, values and tolerance, and economic polarization, but whatever people want to talk about as it relates to the American dream will also be dis­cussed," Vieira said. 
The first of such events at the University, NDD fol­lows in a progression of attempts that FIRST has implemented in an effort to call to political action 
see DREAM/ page 4 
HALL COUNCIL ELECTIONS 

Nelson 
Cervantes Garman Merris Hansen Lamora 
Tario Richter 
Abstain 

Gurreso Kista 96% 
4% 

,____ Abstain

Long Rademacher 
The Observer /Brian Bla 
k 

-------------~,__--~--------------------~?-----------------------------------~------------~,_-------------------------------------­
page 2 The Observer • INSIDE Thursday, April 10, 1997 
• INSIDE COLUMN 




Life 
America is coming dan-:-;~~~~~~~ gerously close to a crisis of values. The judiciaries' role in bringing about this crisis recently drove lead­ing thinkers -including former Supreme Court nominee Robert Bork, Catholic leader Richard John Nehaus and Brandon Williams 


Evangelical leader 
Assistant Viewpoint Editor
Charles Colson -to 
write in the journal First 
Things, questioning American democracy's 
chances of survival. It is a crisis that comes 
when entire classes of people are denied 
basic rights essential to recognition of their 
humanity. There are many such rights that 
are arguably being denied in America. The 
most devastating and most blatantly denied, 
potentially at the expense of our nations 
moral viability, is the right to life. 
The right to abortion has somehow been 
located in our Constitution through Roe v. 
Wade and Planned Parenthood v. Casey. The 
warped logic in the Casey decision has 
immense ramifications. In order to justify the 
constitutional enshrinement of abortion, the 
Supreme Court had to open the very value of 
human life to subjectivity. Since the Casey 
decision, the Ninth Circuit Court of 
Appeals proclaimed in Compassion in Dying 
v. Washington that there is a right to die. The next jump is manifest in Quill v. Vacco. The state of NeW York was said to be violating the equal protection clause by allowing a right to die but not allowing physician assisted sui­cide. Thus, the value of life tumbles deeper into the dark to the point that even the differ­ence between suicide and murder is obscured. Then there is the crowning achievement of what the Pope calls "The Culture of Death " -partial birth abortion. That a President can veto a bill prohibiting a doctor from piercing the skull of a child more than half way through the process of birth ­and then sucking his/her brains out-boggles my mind. What shocks me even more is the lack of public outcry -especially among Christians. 
The words of Yeats describe the situation best. "The blood-dimmed tide is loosed, and everywhere the ceremony of innocence is drowned/ The best lack all conviction, while the worst are full of passionate intensity." The blood of the unborn has been loosed upon the world. Coming soon is the blood of the unhealthy and/or elderly. Who is it that seems to lack all conviction? Many of us Catholics and Christians. The solution to this country's problems-whether they be racism, poverty, class antagonism or the extreme degradation of life -lies with the Church. We are the Church! I implore Christians in this country to show their dedi­cation, their love. If we cannot even defend the value of life -that most basic of human rights, that greatest gift of God -then what will we have left to defend? Truly, the value of human life is the center of America and our concept of democracy. Without us it truly cannot survive. 
I will close with the words of Mother Theresa. They were from the February 1994 National Prayer Breakfast, and were spoken in the presence of the president. "Please do not kill the child. I want the child. Please give me the child. I am willing to accept any child who would be aborted." Though it may seem impossible to fully emulate the love of this woman-may we at least try. May we give this country life. 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
• TooAv's STAFF 
News Graphics 
Heather MacKenzie Brian Blank 
Bridget O'Connor Production 
Sports Mark DeBoy 
Kathleen Lopez Heather MacKenzie 
Viewpoint Jamie Heisler 
Dan Cichalski Bridget O'Connor 
Accent Lab Tech 
Brent DiCrescenzo Brandon Candura 
Joey Crawford 

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
• WORLD AT A GLANCE 
Bomb in Illinois courtroom causes public stampede 
URBANA, Ill. ing and in terror." 
Jurors leaped out of the box in Ewing, 3 7, was arrested at a motel panic and people stampeded out of a and charged with arson, carrying an courthouse after a hooded man threw explosive device, and using that device a Molotov cocktail at a judge, slam­during a crime of violence, Champaign ming him in the forehead and start­County Sheriff Dave Madigan said. ing a fire that gutted the courtroom. Federal Magistrate David Bernthal 
The bomb bounced off the forehead ordered Ewing held without bail today of Circuit Judge George Miller, but pending a hearing Friday. Ewing asked didn't immediately explode Tuesday. Bernthal to remove himself from the Miller, one of the four people who case, saying, "I feel you are a suspect in suffered minor injuries, had handled violating my federally protected rights." a civil case involving John E. Ewing, Ewing also asked that he be allowed to the man arrested later in the day for represent himself. Bern thai said a judge the bombing, police said. would rule on that request later. 
"It was obvious that he was aiming George Taseff, Ewing's public defend­it at the judge and trying to hurt the er, told Bernthal that Ewing has "vari­judge," said Abra Bonnell, a juror in ous strongly held beliefs that the court a medical malpractice case that was has no jurisdiction over him." interrupted by the commotion. Miller had dismissed a civil lawsuit 

"Everybody left the jury box scream-
Cronkite leaves hospital after bypass 
NEW YORK 

Eight days after undergoing a.---,...------, quadruple bypass, Walter Cronkite left the hospital today with plans to return to the tennis court. The 80-year-old broadcaster, who had surgery at New York Hospital on April 1, was taken to a car in a wheelchair and driven to his home in Manhattan. "I feel fine," he told reporters. Earlier, in a statement issued through his office, he said his doctors had told him that "my recovery is right on schedule and that I'm in excellent shape. I asked them if I'd be able to play sin­gles tennis and they said I could. That made me very happy since I haven't played singles in five years," he said. Cronkite's coronary artery problems showed up during a regular checkup, his aide Julie Sukman said. Cronkite was called "the most trusted man in America" during his 19 years as anchor of the CBS Evening News. Since retiring from that job in 1981 he has produced or appeared in numerous documentaries on CBS, the Public Broadcasting Service and the Discovery Channel. He said he wants to resume a "normal life" as soon as possible. ''I'm looking forward to getting back on our boat and to several television projects we've got in the works," he said. 
Pizza Hut violates child labor laws 
NEW YORK 

The Labor Department has fined Pizza Hut $194,400 for allegedly letting teen-agers operate dangerous equip­ment like slicing machines and electric dough mixers at restaurants in the New York area. Federal law prohibits anyone under 18 from operating the machines. The vio­lations involved 75 minors at 26 Pizza Huts in New York City and its northern suburbs from June to March, the government said Wednesday. Pizza Hut, based in Dallas, did not immediately return calls for comment, and there was no indication if it would appeal the fines. Bruce Sullivan, a Labor Department administrator in New York, said the violations occurred even though Pizza Hut had asked its young workers to sign an agreement indi­cating they knew they weren't allowed to touch the machines. Pizza Hut was previously penalized for child­labor violations involving one restaurant in Pittsburgh and two in the New York area, he said. On Tuesday, a jury in Seattle that dozens of Taco Bell restaurants ­owned, like Pizza Hut, by PepsiCo -violated state law by pressuring up to 13,000 workers to pick up trash, prepare food and perform other tasks without pay. 
• SOUTH BEND WEATHER • NATIONAl WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forcast AccuWeather® forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 
The AccuWeather®forecast for noon, Thursday, April 1o_ 
Lines separate high temperature zones for the day. 
Thursd~y 
~ Friday I ~ 
Satyrd~y ~ 
........ ; 
.. \ 

FRONTS:
Sunda~ ~ 
.........--.-...&...&... ~ 
COLD WARM STATIONARY 
Cl 1997 AccuWeather, Inc.

Mon~'y 
H'".."i. m ISSl rTil 0 [Z] ~ {.)-~ G
\...··•.. ··: 
HIGH lOW SHOWERS RAIN T·STOAMS FlURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. ClOUDY CLOUDY _,..... · 
Atlanla 65 47 El Paso 83 45 Omaha 35 22 Baltimore 45 32 Flagstaff 50 37 Reno 46 32
Q~~4~Q(f~u 
Boise 52 38 Helena 31 21 San Diego64 59 
S~~;e~; T-~t~~s Rain ~~~;;;e~ ~~~·~ -~~-Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy 
Casper 23 20 Louisville 44 25 Spokane 54 32 
Denver 46 21
Via Associated Press GraphicsNet 
Norfolk 50 45 Tulsa 55 35 
AP Ewing filed in 1988. 

Gas-pumping robots replace humans 
SACRAMENTO, Calif. 

It won't wash your windshield or check the oil, but a robot introduced at a Shell station Wednesday will give you a fill-up without your having to step out of the car. Like the nearly extinct human gas station attendant, the "customer interface center" at Shell's Smart Pump moves up to the driver's window to ask what grade of gas to pump. The robot then lowers an arm to the car's gas cap, opens it and inserts the nozzle. The robot also takes credit card information and gives a receipt. The entire process -from the time a green light signals the driver to pull up to the credit card station until a second green light signals the transaction is complete -takes about two minutes. Art Driscoll, manager of product development for Shell Oil Products Co. in Houston, said the company has done extensive consumer research that revealed that "many motorists consider purchasing gas to be a hassle." Customers aren't able to use the robot yet. Shell is testing it while awaiting approval by regula­tors including state and local fire marshals. Shell must also decide how much to charge for the service. To use the robotic gas pump, customers must have on their windshields special plastic devices, about the size of a credit card, that transmit information about the vehicle to the pumping system. The robots need special gas-caps to operate. 
Corpse stuffed into undersized coffin 
LOS ANGELES 

Clarence Freeman Jr. was a very tall man who is now 6 feet under in an eternal squeeze. As the family tells it, his 6-foot-9 body was bent like a pretzel and stuffed into a too-short casket in an everlasting indignity to the man. "He can't rest in peace comfortably," his widow, Josie Freeman, said Wednesday. Freeman's relatives arc suing Angelus Funeral Home, which insists it was only trying to keep down costs for the bereaved, and the fam­ily hopes someday to exhume the body from a Chicago cemetery and place it in a larger casket. "I just want everything done right," Mrs. Freeman said. "My hus­band took a lot of pride in himself. He took care of his appearance and personal hygiene. This just isn't him." Freeman, 39, died of complications of Hodgkin's lym­phoma on Valentine's Day, and his wife contacted the 74-year-old Angelus Funeral Home, one of the most widely respected mortuaries in Los Angeles. Angelus funeral director Blanche Laws-McConnell said she told the family Freeman's legs would be crossed and his knees bent so he would fit in a standard casket. The average inside length of a casket is 6 feet, 6 inches. 
Thursday, April 10, 1997 
The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS page 3 

Heagle: 'Mutuality' essential to a complete life 
By BRIDGET O'CONNOR 
Assistant News Editor 
Father John Heagle and Sister Fran Ferder, the co­directors of Therapy and Renewal Associates in the archdiocese of Seattle, explained the importance of being a lifegiver in relation­ships and love at last night's Keeping the Faith session enti­tled "Giving Life: Sexuality and Generativity." 
"All of us do need someone in our lives who responds when we talk." said Ferder. "One of the ways God resposds to us is in giving us one another." 
She pointed out that the cre­ation story of Adam and Eve in the ancient Hebrew text pre­sented Eve as the helper that God provided for Adam so that he would not have to be alone. She clarified that reference by noting that she was not a helper as someone to do work for him but rather someone who can talk. listen and hold him. 
In another biblical refer­ence, Heagle cited the exerpt from the Bible that says, "They were naked and without shame." 

"What would it be like if we could be with e a c h 
o 
t h e r without 

o 
u r masks?" h e asked. 



H i s p o i n t was that t h e exerpt referred to a dif­ferent type of nakedness in which two peo­The Observer/Melissa Matheny 
Participants in last night's Keeping the Faith seminar
ple could be completely open 
take part in a ritual handwashing (above). Father John 
with each other without the 
Heagle (right) spoke on intimacy.

fear of rejection or judgement. He explained that that vul­
"genital intimacy." He "The most
nerability is the most impor­explained that as a priest he essential thing in 
tant nakedness that couples 
sometimes experiences doubt life is mutuality,"can have and that such a rela­as to whether his life without he continued. Mutuality is thetionship is the key to reclaim­a marriage or children could capacity and the ability to giveing love by being lifegivers. 
be truly complete. and receive love." 
"I can live without sex but I "We can always look at oth­Heagle also told the audi­cannot live without intimacy," 
ers and say, 'Their life is more ence about the role of the "ifshared Heagle. He related his life giving' ... The truth is, it only clause" in his life.
fears upon entering the semi­
doesn't matter. Throughout his life, he nary and of loving without thought to himself that "if 
only" he were in the next stage of his life, that things would be better and he would feel more fulfilled. 
Examples of such stages include "if only I were in high school," "if only I could get into college," "if only I could be more productive and make a difference in the world." 
He also said that now, at the age of 59, he wonders what if would be like, "if only I could 
the world is getting smaller 
slow [life] down." "Don't live just out of 'if smell better. 
only's'," he said, and then urged the audience to "be aware of and name the ways that you are giving and receiv­
..Q) C'O
..
·­


ing love," and to "count the ways you're giving life." 
"We can't change the world, but we can examine the ways that you and I are loving," he explained. 
He went on to say that regardless of what one does in life, one that is incapable of love will be a crippled human being. What a person does to prepare for his or her career is less important than prepa­ration for the relational side of life. 
The final point that both Ferder and Heagle ellaborated on was the importance of a support system in a person's life. 
That system could include a spouse but may just as well include friends, coworkers and neighbors. 
The lecture, which was the last in the series, took place in the Keenan-Stanford Chapel. 

The multi-level nite club offering the best in ott-campus fun and entertainment where ifyou don't like what's on one floor you can go party on the next floor. Two dance floors, DJ's on both levels. 
PRESENTS: 

THURSDAY, APRIL 10TH 
,

STOMPER BOBS CD RELEASE PARTY 
AT 

DA\¥G-FEST COLLEGE NIGHT 
21 and over with proper 10 Doors open from 9PM to 3AM Coming Friday April 25th: 
Sabor Latino 

FREE DOOR PRIZE WITH THIS AD BEFORE 11 PM PLUS FIRST 25 LADIES ADMITTED FREE BEFORE 11 PM 
• 

page 4 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, April I 0, I997 

Davie 
continued from page I 
name on there and leave a phone number for me and I'll be able to get back to you and respond." 
During his talk, Davie out­lined what he considers his responsibilities to be as the head football coach at Notre Dame. 
Among his obligations to the administration of the school, Davie mentioned that the goal for the football program must be parallel to the University's goal. With that established, the next goal is to win. 
''I'm not just going to stand up and talk about winning the national championship every year," Davie said. "My nature is to take one step at a time and control the things we can control. I think by doing that, we take the pressure off of these players." 
In order to win each game, however, Notre Dame has to regain the home field domi­nance for which the top athlet­ic programs are known. 
"The first thing we need to do is win the stadium back," he continued. "It's turned into everybody's best trip. We need to get the magic back in that stadium." 
Discussing this topic further, Davie expressed an interest in involving the fans and catering to them somewhat by making a Notre Dame football weekend accessible to more people in some ways. 
So that more people can attend pep rallies, Davie hopes the first one of the fall will be held outside in the new stadi­um. If the weather cooperates, two more will take place some­where other than the Joyce Center. 
There is no problem with the student section, but the rest of the home crowd tends to sit back a little during the games, Davie said. If he could, he would like to have the students spread out in the stands and charge up the rest of the fans. 
Citing some statistics about the Notre Dame student body, Davie explained why he sees a need to involve it more with the football program. Ninety five percent of the University's "focused" student body gradu­ates in four years; 77 percent are involved in volunteer work and community service; 85 per­cent of the students live in the dorms; 85 percent participate in intramural athletics and 99 percent attend football games. 
The last statistic impresses Davie the most; he turned down head coaching jobs in the Pacific Ten and Big Ten confer­ences partly because each school had less than 15 percent of its students attending the games. 
"This student body cares about football," Davie said. "[That percentage) tells me that you respect our players. 
"I get excited when I look up at that student section ... I truly believe this is the best student body in the country." 

Dream 
continued from page I 
and educate people in the age group commonly referred to as "Generation X." 
Last fall, Vieira and two other students attended FIRST's "National Issues Convention for Young Adults" in Washington, D.C., and discussed issues including economics, technology, population, and culture. With FIRST planning another national conference for fall 1997, Vieira hopes the issues discussed at this Saturday's event will be 
incorporated into the coming national meeting's message. 
"[After NDD,] I will come up with some type of resolution that incorporates the common themes and similar concerns that students come up with dur­ing the day," Vieira said. 
"Then, I will send it to Ia FIRST representative) who will take all resolutions formulated on Saturday across the nation and create a big resolution to send to politicians, to let them know that members of our gen­eration of voters have opinions." 
That resolution will also be presented to the nation at the "President's Summit for America's Future," also known as the "Volunteerism Summit," needs of young Americans. on April27-29. "As 'Generation X,' we don't 

NDD spawns from the philoso­really have a definition or the phy of FIRST, a non-profit orga­definition that people have is nization devoted to making the pretty messed up. If there is political process meaningful for something I could do to define · young adults. our generation, this is the place 
The group is trying to trans­to express it," said Tina Potthoff, form the manner in which a student who plans to attend "Generation X" participates in the event. politics by establishing non-par­"People think that we are tisan deliberation designed to screw-ups, but look at the typical help citizens voice their opinions Notre Dame student. That's over the clamor of special inter­where the redefinition should est groups. It then works to begin." open lines of communication Students interested in attend­with elected officials, informing ing this event should be at the politicians of the opinions and CSC at 9 a.m. on Saturday. 

A film series offering movies as they were meant to be experienced. Classic films. Big Screen. Bargain price. 
WEDNESDAY, APRIL 16 
2:00 and 7:00 P.M. 

Errol Flynn and Olivia de Havilland in 



Ro&inr 
Hooa 
$1 Students 
LITTLE THEATRE 
For information, 
call 219/284-4626 




Training Session 
on Thursday, April 10, 3-SPM 
All volunteers who would like to be certified 
•

please attend this SeSSIOn. 
Come to the Campus Security Building room 122 
license* 
Questions??? Ca II Susan 1-9888 
page 5 

Thursday, April 10, 1997 The Observer • NEWS 
ND hosts 39th annual Prospectives to tour SMC campus 
Special to The Observer with college professors and liturgy in Regina Hall Chapel. current students, and to tour In 1996, for the third con­

Collegiate Jazz Festival 
Saint Mary's College will campus facilities and resi­secutive year, Saint Mary's host its sixteenth annual dence halls. Students from was ranked number one in its 
Special to The Observer 
Tomorrow, beginning at 7:30 p.m., Stepan Center will come alive with the sights and sounds of the 39th annual Collegiate Jazz Festival. 
The event, which is hosted by Notre Dame every year, fea­tures jazz bands from schools across the country, as well as a band of judges from all over the jazz world. 
Among other well-known col­lege bands, Western Michigan University will perform on Saturday night. This band has played at the Montreux ­Detroit International Jazz Festival, Carnegie Hall and was nominated for a 1996 Grammy award. 
The keynote of the festival is the always popular Judges' Jam at 10:30 p.m. on Saturday. This year's judges include, among others, Louis Hayes, former drummer for the Cannonball Adderly Quartet, who recorded with John Coltrane and Sonny Rollins. Also, Nick Brignola will judge. He is a baritone saxophonist who has performed with Herbie Hancock, Buddy Rich, Dizzy Gillespie. 
Spring Day on Campus on Sun., Apr. 13 from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. 
Designed for high school sophomores, juniors, prospec­tive transfer students· and their parents, the day includes an alumnae panel discussion, financial aid presentations, a facu Ity/ adm inistrator fair, lunch and campus tours. The events are free and open to the public. 
The Spring Day program provides prospective students and their parents with the opportunity to discuss the admission process, to speak 
The Notre Dame African Students' Association_ Proudly Presents 


African Identity 
(After Cabral) 
A Lecture by Prof. Fred Dallmayr, The Packey J. Dee Chair, Professor, Government Department, Fellow of Institute, Kellogg Institute, Joan B. Kroc Inst. for Intl. Peace Studies Program 
Monday, April 14 
7:00PM 
Hesburgh Center Auditorium/Peace Studies 
Sponsors: African Students' Association, Kellogg Institute, The Center for the Study of Contemporary Society. www.nd.edu/ -ndasa 



Interested in an Environmental Career? Come to the Environmental Career Information Day 
........................................................... 
Thursday April 10th 12:00-4:30p.m. ~t the CSC Students in all disciplines and all classes are welcome 
Learn about jobs that work with the Environment at the career fair: 
• 
US Environmental Protection Agency 

• 
Hoosier Environmental Council 

• 
Chicago Assoc. Planners and Architects 

• 
Superior Waste Systems 

• 
Indiana University -Purdue University, Indianapolis (IUPUI) School of Public and Environmental Affairs 

• 
Advanced Pollution Technologies, Ltd. 

• 
Solid Waste Management District of St. Joseph County 


Group discussions 
12:30-1:30pm USEPA 
1:00-2:00pm Advanced Pollution Technologies, Ltd. 
1:30 -2:30 pm Mishawaka Utilities Water Department 2:00-3:00pm Solid Waste Management District of St. Joseph County More compaaies may be added! 
Help yourselfhelp the Earth Sponsored by Terra Club Questions? E-mail: earth@darwin.helios.nd.edu 
across the country are invited to attend. 
The schedule of events begins at 9 a.m. with registra­tion and a continental break­fast followed by a formal wel­come. Morning sessions, con­sisting of an alumnae panel discussion for visiting families and an admission presenta­tion, end at 12:15 p.m. with special campus tours and lunch in the campus dining hall. 
The afternoon, consisting of a faculty/administrator fair and financial aid presenta­tions, concludes with a special category of Midwest Regional Liberal Arts Colleges in the 
U.S. News and World Report annual survey of American colleges and universities. 
Saint Mary's offers 34 areas of study leading to a bache­lor's of arts, fines arts, science business administration or music. 
The college 1500 students represent 45 states and 20 foreign countries. Nearly 60 percent of them in the 20 per­cent of their high school class. For more information, please contact the Admission office at 284-4587. 


All boats must be completely home-made, so get started soon! 
Represent YOUR 

dorm or club. 

Watch for further details. 
page 6 Residence Hall Association willengines as early as Friday. 

RHA 
hold its 11nal meeting. Bridget Sullivan, Missy Lind, Lauric The Mound Road plant is the 
sole source of V-6 and V-X 

continued from pa -Jn 1 
Pater and Nolan assuming the pickup trucks built at the 
engines for Ram and DakotE helm of the organization later

compensate for the current 
this month. 
Dodge City assembly complex 

lack of interest in the po!'itions 
Formal administrativein nearby Warren, Cervone 
come election time. 
turnovers for the individual
said. It is the primary source of 

"We're hoping people will be 
residence halls does not takeengines for Ram pickups excited about getting involved place until the fall, so RHA offi­
assembled at St. Louis, 

next year, particularly with all 
although that plant uses some the new programs we plan to cials do not expect the three engines made in Toluca, 
empty executive boards to have
offer to continue the RHA tradi­
an impact on residence hallMexico, he said. 
tion of excellence," said Nolan. 
planning. 
THE UNIVERSITY LIBRARIES OF NOTRE DAME 
i 
ARE PLEASED TO PRESENT 
I 
lAC AND EBSCO DATABASES 
The University Libraries invite you to search our two new web-based databases. The Information Access Company (lAC) and the EBSCO databases provide the researcher with access to information in the areas of business, sociology, psychology and other fields. In addition, newspaper articles, Books In Print, general and academic periodical indexes--including some full-text articles --can all be accessed via lAC and EBSCO. 
After searching lAC or EBSCO, the Libraries would appreciate your feedback in 
two areas: the coverage and content of the indexes and the access software and its 
features. Both databases can be reached through the Libraries' homepage, which 
provides an e-mail link for your comments. 
The URL is: 

http://www.nd.edu/-ndlibs/iac.htm 
----~-------~-~ --------_.------------~~~~----­
Thursday, April 1 0, 1997

The Observer • NEWS 

ObserverStaffReport• sented Special Recognition: .• Belle BaJ.Itista, historian 
Awards to Seth Miller and for the Filipino-American\IWil:;rh& Studen~ Leadership¥¥ Megan Murray for their SE)t:-Students Organization and .. Banquet, held last night in the ''' vice as president and vice counselor for the National 
J9YF!:l, C~!lJet:'$· ,Monogram<y,presiden;t of student govern­Youth Sports Program. 
Room, provided the opportu-' ·ment fol' 1996-97, Mike, Flood • Deborah Hellmuth, co­pity .~B..,JE)f~~zEl some of the > for bisJeadership as statio,~ chair of Hall Presidents' leaders around campus. and manager of WVFI; and Kelly, Council. 
..H·;t',~rt~4J:!.l~~~· · dent.. gov~. again .. forhi~ ':"'?t~ as chair.~ • Annette Henderson, stu­
·.... ·e:.rnm.e~t. ·. _,,:·.. ·· :;:wT ::,_,:)=::.·· .. ··:-.:.::~!:::;1r ·man of the reform.Cointnitt.ee·r=·= dent panelist for the Board of F'' • • The, late Professor John,., •, Christin~ Raslavsky, a stu-Trustees. H4tick,"''to·diti'ictor 6fi;the"' denf assistant at<the Ct:lnter • Pete Miller, captain of the 
. ror1®i1LEthics and forSocial Concer!lswho orga­men's basketball team. nized ii!;; the •i•i•~'<•'•·Migrant • Mark Moskowitz, co­the recipient o( Experiences Seminar that founder of Students for tbe Frankp'Malley ;\ward for ;;;;1 occurred. over spring break, Responsible Business. .. . '' received the John W. Gardner • Steve Noble, captain of the as!>ed away, the Student.LE:adershiP Award .•• hockey team. t 011. campus left," . • Erin Hoffman, treasurer of · • Michelle Paduch, presi­}l,i~. anpnymou~. 1:: the·stu~e ntbody, re.ceivE}~ dent of the Joint Engineering ote in tribute. Jk' The Rev. A Leonard Collins Council. ,. ······~o.~c~•·4l~\'l)t~.~t .D!,1~~m~er1;:Fii1;: ..1\war~ ..·tJi:,,,.xJ:if'!1i·•···•·wii:i+"'···.·.r:NJ.;;....··'•·i·.··· • Paola Ramirez, Notre 
... • Irish 'Clover Award wirf:l''' The StudEmt'' ACt\v'ities Dame Encounter assistant Qe~s 'YeJ:'.e Brendan Kelly and.. ,. Leadership Award recipients coordinator and Headstart )lob Zerr.•Relly served as stu~· were as follows. with a sam­volunteer. d(lnt gov~rnment's chief of pie from each winner's list of • Anthony Reid, president of staff for 1996~97 and chair-activities: the-campus chapter of the man of the reform committee; • Matthew Althoff, captain NAACP. Zerr, director or the of the men's. cross country In addition, the Hall of the University risk management." and track teams. Year award went to Keenan and safety department, taught+ • Shannan Ball. director of Hall, with Siegfried and Badin 
,,Jhe Saferid(l tra~ning ses~~ons: programming for Student halls receiving honorable · '••• '·•·It • Patricia· O'Hara,· vice pres£· Union Board. mentions. ident of Student Affairs, pre­
impressed. be hired, she added. tecrs to man the station 
"They've really improved," The cost of the capital outlays throughout the year, particular­she said. "Their rotation [of will be covered by Student ly during breaks and summers, music] is more responsive to Senate, and additional operat­when students are not on cam­their market." ing costs will be paid for by the pus. 
The switch to PM also will University. Flood was somewhat require some capital improve­The total bill for the switch to reserved and quiet in dis­ments, including the purchase FM is expected to be just over cussing the announcement last of a 100-watt transmitter, an $40,000, Lanan said. night, the result of having audio enhancer, emergency For now, Flood and his staff already heard of the action system equipment and will work with full-time com­University's decision two days remote control equipment, mercial radio announcers in the earlier. Lanan said. South Bend to prepare them­"For someone to say to us, 
A professional engineer, simi­selves for FM radio. 'You deserve to go to FM,' two larly utilized by WSND, also will He also hopes to lind volun-years ago, it would have been 
'l'hts week, the current 





Chrysler workers go on strike 
By JIM IRWIN 
Associated Press Writer 
DETROIT 
Following failed negotiations, about 1,800 workers at a Chrysler Corp. plant that is the sole supplier of engines for some of the automaker's popu­lar pickup trucks have gone on strike. 
The members of United Auto Workers Local 51 walked out at midnight Wednesday. 
Both sides planned to meet today to schedule further talks, Chrysler spokesman Tony Cervone said. 
Major issues in bargaining for a new local contract included health and safety, discrimina­tion against minority employees and Chrysler's shifting of some engine component production to .outside suppliers, said Local 51 president Sam Nardicchio. 
..They want to give away our work and they're probably going to announce a record­breaking first quarter" for company earnings, Nardicchio said. "If we weren't making any money, we'd understand." 
Nardicchio declined to elabo­rate on the discrimination claims. 
Chrysler says customers shouldn't have any immediate trouble finding popular pickups and sport utility vehicles equipped with engines built at the strikebound plant. 
But Nardicchio said today that some assembly plants sup­plied by the Mound Road Engine Plant could run out of 


WVFI 
continued from page 1 
They're doing a lot of things right now that they'd need to do as an FM station," Lanan said. 
Noting that WVFI currently enforces strict decency codes throughout the time that it is on the air, Flood said that the increase in professionalism among the staff members weighed heavily 'in the University's decision to approve the move to FM. 
"It took us two years to clean up our act," Flood said. "We proved to the University that we could be responsible, be inclu­sive of everyone, and produce a level of continuity among the staff so that by the time the younger members move into leadership roles, they can con­tinue what we've started." 
Since the renewed push to move to FM, the station has adopted a number of policies aimed at making it more pro­fessional and more in tune with what a greater percentage of the student body wanted. 
In November 1995, the sta­tion instituted massive staff cuts and required everyone to resign and reapply for their positions. The move was designed to streamline the staff and bring greater communica­tion and consistency among co­workers. 
The station also instituted longer shifts for the announcers and began introducing more conventional music. 
"We tried to move away from being a private music club," Flood said. "That's really what we were before." 
Lanan, once critical of the station's lack of professionalism and limited listenership, is now 
Questions, comments, tat Observer.Viewpoint.!@nd.edu 


Learn A New Language 
Study Portuguese at Notre Dame 
The language of Brazil, Latin America's largest and most populous country, a land of rich literature, fascinating music, natural beauty and international business opportunities 
Learn fast: Intensive course Fulfill the language requirement in 2 semesters 
Contact: Department of Romance Languages 


Thursday, April 10, 1997 The Observer· WASHINGTON NEWS page 7 

Gingrich takes dramatic stand on new tax reforms 
of Fran Wednesda . 
should do more to 
grandfather governed wheelchair. "'k Coping with his disability ... 
~·~os;t~~~~tt~"~~~:a:~c:n°J ~''that 
but they
is nO ''famk memodal. . 
were \!Vi:>rried 
. roversy would 

.sion, < ·. ........ ·· ... < ·•· 
:!As now planned; none ofthil r(t,o~un1ent'~ three statue.~ of ~oosevelt suggests a wheel• chair o:fthe steel braces. 
L---------------------------------------------~----~--------------~~ 





THIS WEEKEND 
e 
'l 

Presents: 
Friday 

Students & Faculty: $3 General Public: $8 7:30pm ND Jazz Band & lots more bands! 

Judges 

Trumpet: Lew Soloff Bass: Marc Jolmson Saxophone: Nick Brignola Drums: Louis Hayes Piano: Sir Roland Hayes Critic: Dan Morgenstern 

-..collegiate 




~aZz
.-. 
~festival '97 
All-Weekend Passes Students & Faculty: $6; General Public: $15 
Satut•day 
Students & Faculty: Free General Public: $1 Afternoon Session begins @ 1:00 pm 
Students & Faculty: $5 General Public: $10 Evening Session begins@ 7:30 pm 
Judges' Jam 
10:30 pm 
Friday & Saturday~ April 11-12 Stepan Center 
By ROB WELLS 
Associated Press Writer 
WASHINGTON 
House Speaker Newt Gingrich, staking out a dra­matic position on tax reform, said today he favors elimi­nating capital gains and estate taxes. 
"I favor a zero tax on savings and 
· job creation," Gingrich, R-Gingrich Ga., told a press briefing on tax reform today. "We're for zero tax on death benefits." "We are going to have a tax cut this year. We hope the president signs it. We favor very low taxes," Gingrich said. Republicans use the term "savings and job creation" to refer to capital gains, the prof­its investors reap from sales of stock and properties, while "death taxes" is the term the GOP uses to describe estate taxes, which are paid on prop­erty transferred after death. There are numerous bills introduced in Congress this year which would scale back the 28 percent tax on capital gains, but few go as far as the position stated by Gingrich. There are numerous bills to reduce the bite of estate taxes, which can reach as high as 55 percent but few call for elimi­nating them altogether. Gingrich's comments were made after he came under intense criticism by conserva­
tives for suggesting last month that a tax cut could be delayed this year while Congress first works on balancing the bud­get. Since those comments, Gingrich has repeatedly emphasized he was not retreating from a tax cut. · 
White House spokesman Mike McCurry called Gingrich's proposal part of a "political agenda ... a charm offensive underway with the far right." He said Gingrich should bring it up in budget negotiations between congres­sional and administration leaders. 
"We will certainly be recep­tive, and listen, and see how that fits into the contours of a balanced budget and see what tradeoffs exist in making those kinds of agreements," McCurry told reporters. 
A House Republican leader­ship source, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said it's unclear at this point if Gingrich will introduce any legislation to eliminate capital gains and estate taxes. 
Gingrich's statement has important implications for the ongoing budget negotiations between Congress and the White House, since tax cuts of that size would represent a sharp reduction in revenue to the federal government. Gingrich made it clear he intends to use the tax issue to sharpen the differences between core values of Republicans and Democrats. 
"We will vote on a tax cut even if President Clinton opposes it," he said. 


Are you gavl Cesblanl Questlonlngl Are vou a friend ofsomeone who lsl 
Please come to ~ampus Ministry's FIRST ANNUAL RETREAT for gay and lesbian undergraduate students and their friends. 
APRIL 18-19, 1997 
* Explore your gifts and the milestones In your life *;Meet nC1V people 
* Discuss how we are all called to follow Cltrlst 
*Examine ways to reach out to the Notre Dame/St. Marv' s community 
* Student-led For more information or to *Student talks register, please call 
• Conversation 
Kate: 1-5242 *Prayer Tony: 273-2578
(?MPUS 
Alyssa: 4-3352
MINISTRY 
or e-mail: katharine.s.barrett.28@nd.edu 

--~-~--------~ ~-~ ~ 
--------------------~----~ ---------------------------------~~----------~----------~------­
-~ 
Thursday, April 10, 1997 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 8 
APPLAUDING COMMITMENT 
I was there for the applause when Notre Dame football team raised their Gold headgear to a _partial crowd in Sun Devil Stadium after they defeated West Virginia to win the 1988 National Championship. I was deaf­ened by the noise when the Notre Dame Men's Basketball team unseated #I Ranked North Carolina in theJoyce Center in' 1986. I stood in a crowded room of gleeful shouts when the 1995 Women's Soccer Team defeated North Carolina for the National Championship. I threw my arms in the air with exhilaration when my roommate won the first ever swimming race in the new Rolf's Aquatic Center. An association with Notre Dame virtually guarantees such experiences of triumph that draw us to spontaneous, fer­vent, and heartrending response. 
In the past three weeks I have had the privilege of witnessing three events on Notre Dame's campus where the reflexive action of those present has equaled or exceeded that of any hallmark athletic event: At his wedding reception, a Notre Damejunior spoke poignantly about the joy that day had brought him, the surety of his love for his wife and the gratitude he felt for the fidelity of his family and friends. His heartfelt sentiment was met with applause. It was not simply a courteous response; it was one of those occa­sions when people were so moved that we were reluctant to interrupt the pleasure of our own sound of approval ... During the Easter Vigil, twenty­three men and women were received into the Catholic Church. When they were presented into the community as brothers and sisters baptized and confirmed in our faith, the community's response was electrifying. The polite and somewhat domesticated way that we have more or less been con­ditioned to behave during liturgy was disregarded for a while as people took to their feet, stood on their toes, stretched their necks trying to see, crashed their hands together and even let out a few whoops and hollers as signs of welcome, approval, and appreciation of these twenty-three men and women. . . Last Sunday four men were ordained as priests in the Sacred Heart Basilica. Once again that building shook from community's response to the "yes" that these men had made to serve God and the people of God. 
The applause that rises from athletic achievement is understandable, even predictable. We are well-schooled to seek winning and esteem winners. But why such an overpowering response to Baptism and Confirmation? to Ordination? 
Certainly the wedding, Vigil, and ordination were packed with family and friends who felt like and in fact do share in the sacred moments of their loved ones. As a community of believers, we are all deeply affected by the actions of one another. It occurs to me that, in part, the thunderous responses to those who received the sacraments of Baptism, Confirmation, Marriage and Holy Orders is tied to a recognition of commitment: theirs to God, God's to them, theirs to us, ours to them, ours to God and God's to us. 
The signs of the times might mislead us to believe that commitment is out of fashion, that even the most solemn promises are negotiable. So often I hear the critique of students on campus that they or someone else is afraid of commitment. We are starving for signs and models of fidelity, steadfastness, perseverance, and hope. We are hungry for indications that commitment, whether great or small, does not limit our freedom and decrease our available choices in life, rather commitment animates and enlivens us and enriches the choices we make. The actions of the men and women that I have spoken of defY notions that commitment is not real or life-giving. I believe the community's response confirms this to be true and that their lives will bear this out. 
An association with Notre Dame provides us with many opportunities for triumph that draw us to spontaneous, fervent and heart-rending response. At our fingertips when we will be so moved that we are reluctant to interrupt the pleasure of our own sound of approval. Nowhere is it more readily available than through the exploration and living of commitment: ours to one another, ours to God, and God's to each of us. 
Rev. Tom Doyle, C. S. C. 
0MPUS 
MINISTRY 

~--------~----~------~--~~-.~~--------~.-----------~~-------------.-----------~-~------~4-----·----­
Thursday, April 10, 1997 
• MEXICO 

Prosecutor implicates Salinas 
By MARK STEVENSON Salinas admitted under ques­outright there may have been a Associated Press Wrirer tioning that Mario Ruiz cover-up. But this is the first Massieu -Jose Francisco's time evidence has been made MEXICO CITY brother and the special prose­public by Mexican authorities 
Former President Carlos cutor handling the case at the involving the former president. Salinas de Gortari knew while time -informed him in The disclosure is one of 16 he was in office that his older October 1994 that Raul's name pieces of evidence that Ramos brother may have been impli­had come up several times dur­Rivera said prosecutors are cated in the murder of their ing the investigation of the introducing before court in the 
former brother-in-law, a prose­case. murder case against Raul. cutor said Wednesday. Carlos Salinas told Mario Jose Francisco Ruiz Massieu, 
The brother, Raul Salinas, is Ruiz Massieu "to act according a former governor of southern in jail on trial for mastermind­to law," Ramos Rivers said. Guerrero state, was married ing the September 1994 fatal Carlos Salinas ended his six­for a time with Adriana shooting in Mexico City of Jose year term Dec. 1,1994. Salinas, the sister of Carlos and 
Francisco Ruiz Massieu, the He was questioned in Dublin, Raul. No. 2 man in the ruling Ireland, by officials of the Another item of evidence Institutional Party. Mexican attorney general's appears to have been hidden 
Deputy attorney general Jose office on Jan. 27 of this year. by later prosecutors for nearly Luis Ramos Rivera said Carlos Ramos Rivera did not say two years, Ramos Rivera said. 

SUMMER SESSIONS AT THE UNIVERSITY OF ST. THOMAS 
Check out the opportunities available in undergra~uate programs at the University of St. Thomas, St. Paul, Minn. Registration begins Monday, May 12, and sessions begin May 28 and July 14. Cal11-800-328-6819, Ext. 2-5953 or (612) 962-5953 for abulletin. Classes are available day and evening. 
stfi--IdMi\s
-r:::=.----­
••,, 
2115 Summit Ave., Mail #5002, St. Paul, MN 55105-1096 
Tht Univrn•[Y of S[. Thomas admits scudems uf any race, color, cretd and nanonal or erhnic origin. 
CJ/ afree ride.~~ 
Announcing the AT&T 
"Ultimate Road Trip" Sweepstakes. 
Going abroad this school year? AT&T would like to help pay your way. 
10 Grand Prize Winners ­Round-Trip Air Transportation from the U.S. to the country where you'll be studying. 
Plus thousands of chances to win high-quality currency converters (hey, you may find it more valuable 
than the air transportation) . 
To enter, call 
l Soo 157-5~1~ ext. 300 
Or you can enter on-line at 
http//www.cHt.com/ltudent_ abroad 
Do it today. 
No purchase necessary. Void where prohibited. SWeepstakes ends 5/1/97. Open to residents of the U.S., 18 years or older, enrolled at a U.S. college or university during the '97-'98 school year and traveling internationally for 14 days or roore. See your Study Abroad Counselor or http://w.vw.att.com/student_abroad for official rules and details. 
C 1997 AT&T 
•.....,.,,,,,,,,~u. e S~curlty · the flightS 
ofsanctions biit · mild .rebUkes. "",\:§{> 

based on the novel by 
John Steinbeck 
adapted by 
Frank Galati 
directed by 
Reginald Bain 
Playing at Washington Hall 
Reserved Seats $8, Seniors $7, All Students $6 
Tickets are available at the door or in advance at the LaFortune Student Center Ticket Office. MasterCard and Visa orders call 631-8128 
project face to face 

~eei"q t4e /4ce~ ol4i~~ 4"~ ~i 
cq~ril 7-11 
lafort!AV\e ball room free admissioV\ 

11-4 7-9 l"il11 10am-12 m 

~-~---~-----~--------------­
.. 
page 10 The Observer· NATIONAL NEWS Thursday, April 10, 1997 


Blizzards and overflowing rivers da01age Plains states 
Milk Board wants to drop support for dairy farmers 
By TED ANTHONY 
Associated Press Writer 
HARWOOD, N.D. 
Crews used dynamite on ice jams clogging flood-swollen rivers Wednesday in an attempt to drain backed-up water away from the Red River Valley before it rises even higher. 
Communities along the Minnesota-North Dakota state line wrestled with overflowing small rivers and girded for the crest of the Red River itself. 
People's lives already had been defined by miles of pooled water and vast sheets of ice, the double hit of snowmelt­flooding and a brutal weekend blizzard. 
''I've lived in this area all my life, so I know what a flood is. But I've never seen anything like this," said Ruby Zvirovski, filling sandbags in her drive­way near Harwood, 500 yards from the spreading Red River. 
At Abercrombie, halfway between Fargo and Wahpeton, crews twice threw dynamite in an effort to loosen an ice jam that was stuck in the river like a giant cork. 
"It didn't do anything," said Richland County Road Supervisor Harlan Bladow. The explosives needed to be put underneath or embedded in the ice to be effective, but getting it there was too dangerous, he said. 
Water behind one ice jam at the twin towns of Breckenridge, 
dire, according to testimony 
the board heard Wednesday. A 
decision on extending the sup­
port is expected by the end of LOOKING FOR A SIMPLER 
the month. "The last six months have 

FINANCIAL CHOICE?
been very difficult," said state 
TfACH EllllLISH in ""'' ,· 1 
Take the Direct Route with Direct
EA ~TERN El'ROPE 
PRAGUE • BUDAPEST • KRAKOW How would you like to teach basir 
Deposit and No.-Fee Checking. 
r.onversationaJ En~lish in Eastern Europe? Our matertals profile manv rewarding teachin.p opportunities with great benefits. For mformation, call: 
Don't get lost in a maze of requirements and endless 
(206) 971-.3680 Ext. K55845 
We 1rt • r.euch 6: pub~lhirt; co. 
fees. At NDFCU, we make it simple and affordable. 
• 
No~FEE CHECKING 

• 
No MoNTHLY SERVICE CHARGE 


./ Used, rare and out-of-print books • No MINIMUM BALANCE REQUIRED 
./ Initial cost of $2.00 
• No PER~CHECK CHARGE ./ Nationally -circulated ad 
./ Success rate of 50'/o • OVERDRAFT PROTECTION AVAILABLE 
./ Time required: 2 months 
A Better Choice to Make 
ERASMUS BOOKS 
(219) 239..6611 or (800) 522..6611
Open noon to six 
Independent of the University 
Tuesday through Sunday 1027 E. Wayne 
~NOTRE DAME
SoL•dt Bend, IN 4SS17 
w•FEDERAL CREDIT UNION

(219) 232-8444 
Web Address: www.ndfcu. 
E-Mail: kyenet.net 
Minn., and Wahpeton, N.D., was expected to rise by as much as 2 1/2 feet by this weekend. Officials didn't know when it would finally break. 
"That type of thing decides to go when it wants to go," said National Weather Service mete­orologist Craig Edwards. 
The weather service said ice jams could raise river levels as much as 3 feet. 
The region's worst flooding in decades started last week when temperatures hit the 60s, quickly melting the winter snow that was up to twice as deep as normal. Then rain began Friday and turned into a blizzard that piled up to 2 more feet of snow across the prairie. 
The blizzard was followed by record cold that turned snow and floodwaters into sheets of ice. 
At Fargo, North Dakota's largest city, forecasters raised the projected crest of the Red, expected late Thursday or early Friday, to 39 to 39 1/2 feet-1 1/2 feet higher than the previ­ous prediction and about 2 feet above the record. 
Flood stage in Fargo is 17 feet,· but permanent dikes pro­tect the downtown from the north-flowing river. 
Residents and city employees stepped up the pace to add another foot of sandbags to emergency levees elsewhere in town, while temperatures never warmed past the 20s. 
Randy Naslund left his job at 10 a.m. and headed home as soon as he heard the revised crest prediction. Within min­utes of starting to sandbag his back yard, about 20 volunteers showed up to help. 
"I don't know hardly any of these people," he said. 
Northwestern Minnesota and eastern North Dakota cover the bed of a glacial lake that disap­peared 9,000 years ago. The rivers that drain it are too young to have carved deep val­leys, so floods spread outward. 
"This is one of the flattest places on earth, and this is a flood that's measured in width instead of depth," said Donald Schwert, a geologist at North Dakota State University in Fargo. "We'll be looking at a single flood event that will impact several thousand square miles." 
The situation was less grave in southern Minnesota along the lower Minnesota Hiver, where flood-control structures 
including those in Minneapolis and St. Paul -are extensive and most people live outside the flood's direct path. 
The effect of the cold and the flood on the area's farmers already was severe. 
Many farmers haven't had electricity since the blizzard, so they can't milk their cows, said Minnesota Agriculture Commission Gene Hugoson. Because of the flood, those who have electricity cannot take their milk to market. 
....11'.·····.·.··••·.·····.•···· ......'.•·'.. }·····t··
.. ·.··· ... w.·.·~~.~)l~..
~~~·tvto··~~er a 

ElDER 
QUNT DORA, Fla. 
oned·by her husband
1\:M .tt,tl~p~~ to support six 
children dif a, welfare check, a 
woiD.an dropped them off at 
the, sam~.• Christian school 
w 
.•. , ::,::f'll~ childr~rt are12-yearrold James; 9•year-old Alicia; 8-year.:old C() ·· ; and 5:..yearM 
Flooding in the northern plains 
Snow and rain have swollen western Minnesota's rivers. A look at flooding and blizzard conditions: 
Source: Accu·Weather 
One farmer in the ice-covered town of Ada in northwest Minnesota lost all 40 of his hogs to the flood, and now he can see several calves that froze to death in his fields. 
Flooding also will delay plant­ing and some farmers could lose up to on·e-third of their yield this year. The total loss could outstrip the $1.5 billion 
b·······... .... d.·.•..:;1l'tinl\•ddl[1·l!:.·.r< .• h .ld


an ons six c I ren 
bf:lcause she ~~uld l:t a job and go back to college and get some money so she can buy ,us a house and get us back.'' · Two months have passed, ~nd now the ChristianHomeand Bible School is. trying· !o find the money to keep the kids from being remo,ved and place4+'Witll••foster p.arents.. School'. President James Moor? ~aid .the woman knew ••·· ~he 'W~~ leavi.Ilg the ,children 
· in a ~'place where the kids would h.e loved, hugged and c~ret{ ~9.r: .She was looking for safety;'security and opportu" rtity for her children." 
old triplets Justin, Andrew and John. Moore asked that their last name and their mother's name not be used because the family doesn't want the biological father to rmd his children. He wouldn't elaborate. Moore also refused a request Thursday to inter­view the children, saying they were distraught and teased by classmates after the TV inter­view aired this week. The older children live in one of the four group homes on the school's 70"acre campus, supervised by surrogate par­ents. The triplets live with foster parents off-campus. 
The children see each other every day at meals. 
50.1<m 
AP/Wm. J. Castello 
that farmers suffered in the floods of 1993, Hugoson said. 
A dike was built weeks ago but virtually everyone-includ­ing students and jail inmates ­was on flood duty Wednesday. 
"We're worried about both rivers," said Fire Chief Paul Gourde. "If the Red comes over, it'll back up the Sheyenne and we'll be in trouble." 
By HEIDI RUSSELL 
Associated Press Writer 
HARRISBURG, Pa. 
Dairy farmer Robert Gabel has watched the cost of feeding and caring for his 100 cows increase while the price he receives for his milk continues to plummet. 
So it is paramount, the Perry County farmer says, that the state Milk Marketing Board continue to pay farmers a 30­cent price support that is due to expire in May. Although con­sumers would see little change in the price of milk if the board drops the support to farmers, the consequences to the state's 11,000 dairy farmers would be Rep. Arthur Hershey, whose son recently took over his fami­ly dairy farm. 
"The farmer starts to lose confidence when the prices are as low as they were 12 years ago," Hershey said. "Milk inspectors tell me that morale among the industry is as low as they've ever seen it. That hurts." 
The milk board, which has authority to establish retail prices in Pennsylvania, sets a premium that is over and above a base formula price determined by the federal gov­ernment. 
Last October, the milk board ordered the extra support. 




VIEWPOINT 
Thursday, April 10, 1997 
THE OBSERVER 
NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1997-98 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief 
Brad Prendergast 
Managing Editor Business Manager 
Jamie Heisler Tom Roland 
Assistant Managing Editor 
Maureen Hurley News Editor ............................ Heather Cocks Advertising Manager .............................. Jed Peters Viewpoint Editor .....................Dan Cichalski Ad Design Manager..........................Wendy Klare Sports Editor .................................. Mike Day Production Manager ......................... Mark DeBoy Accent Editor......................... ,.Joey Crawford Systems Manager ....................... Michael Brouillet Saint Mary's Editor ........................ Lori Allen Controller............................................ Kyle Carlin Photo Editor .. . ............ Katie Kroener 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of rhe University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Ir does nm necessarily reflect the policies of the administration ofeither institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Sports Editor, Accent Editor, Saint Mary's Editor, Photo Editor, and Associate News Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Columns present the views of the authors, and not neces­sarily those ofThe Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's community and to all readers. The free expression of varying opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 
Editor-in-Chief 631-4542 Business Office 631-5313 Managing Ediror/Viewpoinr 631-4541 Advertising 631-6900/8840 News/Photo 631-5323 Systems 631-8839 Spons 631-4543 Office Manager 631-7471 Accem/Saim Mary's 631-4540 Fax 631-6927 Day Ediror/Producrion 631-5303 Viewpoint E-Mail Viewpoim.l @nd.edu General Information 631-7471 Ad E-Mail observer@darwin.cc.nd.edu 

• TABLE TALl< 
Ho01ophobia is hurting our society 
Let me tell you about my friend Jim. The summer before his sophomore year of high school. he and his best friend got into a fight, and to get back at him his "friend" spread rumors around that Jim had made homosexual advances toward 
Mick Swiney 
him. 
Of course it worked (these are high school guys we're talking about) and Jim became a pariah -he was shunned, ridiculed and verbally abused. He became a laughing stock; mention of his name in conversation was almost guar­anteed to get a laugh. 
But with time the joke grew old and people lost interest in making fun of him. By junior year, Jim was hanging out with us again and just as popular as ever; the incident of the previous summer, having never been reconciled, was simply ignored. 
Here's the interesting thing: Jim is obsessed with sex. When last I spoke with him, he was somewhere around number 10 on his "scorecard"; 10 women he had slept with, most outside the bonds of any sort of healthy relationship, many of them casual encounters and one-night stands. The reason for this was simply that he made "getting laid" his primary goal in all social situations and hunted the opposite sex with such persistence that he was almost guaranteed the occa­sional success. 
As you may have guessed, this made quite an uncomfortable situation for me. To my ignorant high school eyes, Jim seemed cool because of the way he degraded women. Like everyone else in high school, I wanted the maximum pos­sible amount of contact between myself and the opposite sex, and Jim's many "successes" made my natural and healthy development seem like one big failure. Being friends with Jim made me question why I wasn't as successfully promiscuous as he was -sure I dated, and I even enjoyed many more gratifying relationships than he has to this day, but my perception of Jim told me that it was not enough, that I needed to "get laid" to be normal. 
High school is a tough time anyway, especially as far as sex is concerned. As the product of oh-so-Iiberal Catholic edu­cation I had at best a vague understand­ing of sexuality. The only practical infor­mation I gained about sex I drew from my friends and peers; that most of them knew no more than I did didn't matter. What mattered was only that they looked like they knew, they looked as if they weren't the least bit troubled by the questions that plagued me constantly. So what was wrong with me? 
Of course, now I like to think that I've left such pain and confusion behind me. have met the woman I intend to marry and for the most part I am done with all turbulent sexual awakenings. Questions about sex and sexuality no longer con­sume each waking minute; I have put to rest most of the conflict and can now see sex for what it is: a thoroughly enjoyable expression of love, means of procreation, etc. In other words, the storms are pass­es; it's time to move on. 
Oh yeah ... there's one other outcome to my sexual development that I fail to mention: I have come to the conclusion that I am heterosexual. Fine. Do you know what I feel when I assert this fact? Relief. 
That's right-it is with great shame that I admit that I'm glad to be hetero­sexual. Why? After all, nowadays, het­erosexuality is the "right" way to fly. After years of fear and confusion about my sexual identity I have struggled to the top of the pile and have earned a pat on the head from society. Good boy! You're straight after all. 
That was a close one! There were times when I wasn't so sure. "What's wrong with me?" I would ask. "Why can't I sleep with half of the female popu­lation? Could it be that I'm gay?" 
Growing up, I knew the stories of nice, "normal" men who got married and had kids, only to discover in the end that they were, after all, gay. What did these sto­ries tell me? "There's no telling," they warned. "It might descend on you at any moment, and then where will you be?" 
My excruciating sexual development was fraught with panic at every turn. I grew up thinking that homosexuality was some sword of Dam odes dangling over my head, which might at any moment drop and make me "warped," "abnor­mal," or "sick." Do you know what I think about that? It's crap. 
"Why should I care"? you ask. I'll be happily married by the time I get out of college -my "awakening" is over with, and I've won! Everything's okay after all, right? 
Wrong. It's not okay. 
I and every other heterosexual on this planet must realize that it's not okay; that in fact our society is severely and painful­ly screwed up. We need to realize that conventionally acceptable attitudes about homosexuality as "wrong" are poison to our children, already unsure of them­selves in the face of sweeping hormonal changes. In short, we need to realize something crucial to the mental health of all people, gay and straight alike: Homophobia has got to go. 
Now before I self-destruct on righteous anger, perhaps I should take a minute to explain myself. So I questioned my sexu­ality as a youth, but so does everybody. I obviously turned out all right. I lived a healthy life, developed healthily and asked healthy questions. Now that I've turned out "right," I'm just supposed to forget the whole thing and settle down to a comfortable state of mental health and moral correctness. 
That's cool, I think. Ain't it grand to be straight. But then I'm compelled to ask myself: What if I hadn't turned out "all right"? 
What if, after all the panic and anxiety, I were to discover that I were in fact a homosexual? It does happen, you know; studies now say something like 10 per­cent of the population admits it. Certainly there are enough homosexuals on campus to form GLND/SMC. So Mick Swiney ends up gay. Big deal. 
But what many heterosexuals don't realize is that it is a big deal. After all, though my outlook has been poisoned by years of learning that homosexuality is wrong, I don't have to suffer the conse­quences. I can just say that it's nor my problem and dance ofT into a happy future. 
I don't need to worry about the living hell I've created for the homosexual pop­ulation, and why? Because it's not my problem. 
If you feel this way, perhaps you need to consider that this is the world our chil­dren must grow up in. I don't know about you, but if at all possible I should like to spare my kids the fear and anxiety that I felt growing up. After all, the process of discovering sexuality is scary enough on it's own. Why add to the fear and uncertainty by telling our children that they'd better grow up the "right" way? 
I think about Jim, and of course I know why he felt such a need for reckless and dangerous sexual behavior. He had something to prove, both to himself and to a disapproving society that he was straight, and as straight as humanly pos­sible. Why should he have to? Why should he have to endanger himself and others over a simple matter of orienta­tion? 
The bottom line is that society has to be changed. But how can we change an entire society? The answer is that WE ARE SOCIETY. We determine how our world develops. Let's take our future and our children's futures into our own hands; let's try to break down the preju­dices that hinder our ability to function as an open and truly healthy community. Let's make things better. 
Mick Swiney is a sophomore Arts & Letters major . 
• DOONESBURY GARRY TRUDEAU 
• QuoTE OF THE DAY 

page 12 
Thursday, April 10, 1997 


apocalyptica 

Courtesy of Mercury Records 
'{;:(trtr~
Plays Metallica by Four Cellos 
(out of five stars) 
F
inally! It's the Finnish metal/string-quartet crossover album that I've been waiting for! Well, actually, f'd be lying to you if I pretended to ever expect an album like this. Last year, I was driving at night across rural Canada listening to a "Scandinavian Spotlight" show on Toronto's CFNY. After the obligatory Cardigans track, the DJ dropped the Apocalyptica bomb on the turntable. The fury of four Vikings pounding "Enter Sandman" out of vin­tage cellos jackhammered the stufTy air of my car and rattled the screws in the side paneling. It flat out rocked. Now, Mercury Hecords releases this string and bow thunder in the United States, pumping out a CD that can simultaneously appeal to the classical kids in Crowley Hall and the mallrats that shop in Spencer Gifts. , 
Don't think of this album as one of those Grunge Lite or Moog Cookbook-type CDs, where checscball keyboard musicians soften up alternative rock hits to elevator-safe levels. Apocalyptica's cello treatment fails to fit the description of "light and airy." llelpless strings arc viciously plucked, tapped, and bowed to recreate the deep rumble of Lars Ulrich's drums, and this could be the first time that cello "riffing" can cause people to pump their fist in the air. 
Apocalyptica stick to the meat and potatoes of the Metallica catalog. In other words, the wisely keep away from Load. The older "Master of Puppets," "Creeping Death" and "Harvester of Sorrow" are sim­ply awesome, as Max Lilja, Antero Manninen. Paavo Lotjonen and Eicca Toppinen masterfully cover every time-change, drum roll, lighting riff, finger-stretching solo, and vocal melody. Obviously, the mood of the album is best dubbed "dark." 
The honestly beautiful "The Unforgiven" is a testa­ment to Metallica's songwriting ability. Apocalyptica's skill repels any label of "gimmick" or "joke." Can I be the first critic to ever call a classical quartet "rad?" · 
by Brent DiCrescenzo 


john kennedy 

I'll Learn to Fly (out of *** five stars) 
J 
oHn Kennedy, director of the arts and letters computing department, grew up in South Bend. 
He attended Notre Dame for both his bachelor's 
and doctorate degrees. For almost 10 years, he played guitar, sang, and led the tradition,al Irish band Seamaisin. In that time, he got heavily involved in the local music and recording scene. 
Since the group disbanded in 1995, he has concen­trated more on his singing, and on his own songs. His first solo release, I'll Learn to fly, is just that, solo. Almost every song is only Kennedy and his gui­tar. Occasionally he is joined by cellist Steven Horst to give some low-end to a song. Make no mistake, this is not a revamped Seamaisin album. Unlike the rousing, instrumental blasts that typified Seamaisin 's performance, Kennedy is much more quiet and sub­dued. This makes for a good performance in his venue of choice: Barnes and Noble. Kennedy plays there every Wednesday evening. He still performs Irish music from time to time at a gig in The Electric Brew in Goshen, on the last Friday and Saturday of every month. 
But, on this new solo album. his vocals almost dis­appear behind an ethereal guitar. The only thing that gives some of these songs any meat is the cello. It embellishes the sometimes invisible guitar lines in each song. Each song sounds quite a bit like the pre­vious one, and all of them arc highlighted by Kennedy's over-articulated crooning and soft arpeg­giated chords. 
The album was rated among the top 10 folk albums of the year by WVPE 88.1 FM. However, it seems to have no real variety beyond different words. There are some interesting word constructions and stories that run through songs, such as the ones in songs like "Old Jacob." The album earns its stars on the strength of the fact that it is a local, low tech record­ing that actually sounds like a produced studio album. It is a little quiet and light, but for a fan of folk music, it is a quality album. 
by Matt Loughran 


sneaker pimps 

Courtesy of Virgin Records 
Becoming X (out **** of five stars) 
I
f you are an admirer of Portishead's seminal "Dummy," then this new album will probably be worth a look. Owing much to the aforementioned Bristol-based trip-hoppers and to Tricky; the Sneaker Pimps give us their take on relaxed, mellow music and make a strong claim for status as develop­ing stars. They are helped by the inclusion of one absolutely superb track, "6 Underground," which already takes its place as one of the singles of the year. Smooth, well-written, and yet not without a cer­tain tension ("don't think because I understand, I care" breathes the vocalist), it dominates all other tunes and sets the standard by which they may be judged. 
Owing to this fact, however, the album cannot be classified as brilliant. "6 Underground" displays the band at their best, but inevitably causes everything else to be seen as inferior. And this is a shame, because many other tracks are very good indeed. "How Do" and "Roll On" deserve a special mention for their melodiousness and great production. 

Kula Shaker INXS Squirrel Nut Zippers Archers of Loaf ChEmical :&others Pavement Jolm Tesh Better than Ezra 
4/12 4/14 4/14 4/19 4/27 5/1 5/3 5/9 
Metro Riviera Park West Lounge Ax Aragon Metro Chicago Theatre Metro 
Combining cool samples with odd, edgy noises which dart across their surfaces, both tracks draw on in!lu­ences as diverse as the tranquillity of the calmest ambiance and the harshness of Skinny Puppy and other industrialists. 
Vocals throughout the album arc well suited to the mood created by the careful backing, but sometimes one wonders whether a vocalist with a deeper power to her voice would have been to greater effect. Despite this, however, we are faced with a collection which, while lacking a little originality, is enjoyable and deserving of many listens. 
In short, the Pimps' (as they shall be known) emula­tion of Portishead succeeds in that they achieve a similar sexy sound, but fails due their inability to mat~h the consistent brilliance of their predecessor. 
by Julian Elliott 
Chicago,  IL  
Chicago,  IL  
Chicago,  IL  
Chicago,  IL  
Chicago,  IL  
Chicago,  IL  
Chicago,  IL  
Chicago,  IL  


Thursday, April 10, 1997 page 13 


WVFI finally goes FM 
In the future, you will be able to hear crystal to support WVFI's long struggle to convert to the clear, student-run alternative radio in the show­FM band will revolutionize the campus music cr. In the future, you be be able to win free stuff scene like the introduction of sound revolution­while listening to a student-run station. In the ized the art of motion pictures. WVFI brought future. you can easily host a party by simply tun­the campus The Cardigans, Green Day, Nirvana, ing in a thumpin' student run party-mix show on Nine Inch Nails, Weezer, Sebadoh, The Mighty your FM dial. In the Mighty Bosstones, Bad 
._. Religion, Sonic Youth,future, you will be able 
to listen to pre-game shows hosted by stu­dents while tailgating on chilly Autumn Saturday mornings. In the future, you will hear the best in new rock any hour of the day. In the future, FM de1)jay's will be campus celebrities. In the future, you will rise to the zany antics of a stu­dent-run morning show on your clock radio. In the future, you can hear your friend, the deejay. in your car. In the future. you will not feel guilty about moving off­campus because you will still pick up WVFI on your stereo. In the future, magazines like Spin and Holling Stone will bore you with old 
news as you will be 
months ahead of the • bandwagon. In the future, you can listen to your friends get wiped off the court in Bookstore Basketball without leaving your Turtle Creek bedroom. 
What you just read is not speculative fiction. It's not an II.G. Wells-esque utopian picture of thc future. The Administration's announcement Primus, The Offspring, Pavement and countless other modern rock stars years before they were jamming at Lollapalooza and prancing around on MTV. 
Study WVFI's current playlist well and take notes. Odds are that you'll be hearing more from bands like Girls Against Boys, Pond, Skeleton Key, Built to Spill, Sloan, the Chemical Brothers and Number 
Cup in the near future. Heck, maybe even bands like Chisel and Sweep the Leg Johnny -groups who first dipped their feet in the pool of rock and roll as WVFI deejays and still continue to grow in pop­ularity -will show up with Matt Pinfield on Alternative Nation. "We want to hook our audience with the music 
they know and love," said new assistant station 
manager Ben Cordell, "and sandwich that stuff 
with some gi:eat, new, lesser-known bands." 
Stay tuned with the future. 
by Brent DiCrescenzo 

The Wrens could quite possibly be the best pop-rock band in America. A molten mix of the Beatles, the .Pixies and Archers of Loaf, these Jersey rockers push the limits of sing­along rock-and-roll like 150 cubic inches of hot helium in a 100 cubic ineh balloon. Every clement is to the extreme-unique finger­twisting guitar chords, three harmonizing vocalists, and more hooks per song than you can shake a stick at. The bass player runs in place in bulbous shades with a sawed-off instrument that he plays upside down, and the lead guitarist swings his arm like an accelerated windmill in a baby blue tux. Their two albums, recorded unbelievably in their basement, have over 20 unforgettable songs each. Their live show is candy. Bring an impressionable memory. 

• CLASSICAL COlUMN 


arnes and Noble Chart-toppers 
.ByJULIE BRUBAKER and MICHAEL ANI>ERSON 
we'd liketo remind you of a.••JJUIJ;J>an[lptls dl.lrtng the next few . overnights' during 
there was no stress-free, 
we discovered a local amid&t newly-released Without the dorm chaos 
hllVe the time to trek out 
"' v"'·••··•~'""'"'H the time to .l'eJ:eal>es fro.rn the 
of "Rejoice Greatly" with Mozart's "Laudate .AllfiAr'ICR.n Boy's choir -a stet­mit" js a particularly string ensemble, and 
Ify<lil're in a not-so,traditiorialmood, we recommend anoth­er 9)vvith its owii.ki!ld of grace: Regina Carter's "Something For Gt~¢e('llll:dlilt\P,ejazz STIR·ft~ading. Carter, a jazz violin­ist, lias been said tp exhibit ·'(a ~~r()found approach to the vio­
lin.,; ··· · · · · 
Her approach is especially exCiting with. the sixth track, "Soul Eyes.'' This piece soundsljke it came right out of a jazz club · ew Or · . She begins with a passionate, out-of­
tim~.....• Violin •....... pa,cked w~Flismears aud slides. Then, a jazz trio enters ata relaxing tefupo and brings a unique flavor to the piece. Carter has all the grace of Kathleen Battle but in a of musical settings. 
ter around the theme of Schola Cantorum's "The undf)r jazz, is "Angel of trumpet, alto sax, 
J:>u;~w:·~~::~ a vari­
~"'"'"''"·'"''"'""' and even 20th 
singers produce 
•uu:u~;o11~. spectrum, the jazz album m-ysic. The quartet ·· an.d ha4fitjng sound than quarte:t contains a more is slow music for you , evokes the music that ''Spenser for Hire" as 
~tr;~.vl',vl'llrfL·We think you'll 
... 
.------~---~---.....------~-·----------~--~-~---~----~------­
---------~ 
page 14 The Observer • SPORTS Thursday , April 10, 1997 
The Observer accepts classifleds every business day from 8 a_m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p,m_ at 309 Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 

NOTICES 
THE COPY SHOP LaFortune Student Center 
Phone 631-COPY Mon.: 7:30 a.m. -Midnight Tues.: 7:30a.m.-Midnight Wed.: 7:30a.m.-Midnight Thur.: 7:30 a.m. -Midnight Fri.: 7:30 a.m. -7:00 p.m. Sat: Noon -6:00 p.m. Sun.: Noon -Midnight Open Early, Late, & Weekends 
College Student Vocation Survey­give us your opinion at: 
http://members.aol.com/frjohnr/html /voc1.html 
Interested in Making Extra $~$? 
Large Phys Therapy Practice look­ing for students to make follow up phone calls to see how our patients are doing. Filing and computer entry also available. Flexible hours. Call Gerard or Doug now! 233­5754 
PURDUE EXTENSION-MARION COUNTY 
SUMMER EMPLOYMENT 
• 
Camp Coordinators 

• 
Day Camp Councilors 

• 
4-H Staff Assistants 


Seek energetic individuals to assist educational and recreational pro­gram for youth, ages 6 to 12. Paid training, attendance required. 
Call or write for application: Linda (317) 848-7351 ext 140 Marion County Extension Office 9245 N. Meridian Street #118 Indianapolis, IN 46260-1812 
An Affirmative Action/Equal Opportunity Institution 
Want a FUN job for next year? Stop by IRISH GARDENS and pick up an application for manger.staff or delivery boy/girl!!! 
ILOST & FOUND I 
Lost -Gold woman's watch ­Citizen's Elegance on Thur 4-3 on campus. Call4-3745 Marti Great personal value REWARD: Lost yellow labrador puppy, about 45 lbs. & 6 mo.s, last seen stray at St. Louis Street party on Saturday night taken away by 2 ladies. Please call Dave at 288­9102 with any info at all. 
LOST: STRING OF PEARS AND A CROSS ON CAMPUS BETWEEN HESBURGH LIBRARY & BASILICA IN LATE MARCH. PLEASE CALL DELORES 1-5729 OR 
234-7287 AFTER 6PM. 
LOST: Brown leather portfolio with my name written in gold on the cover. Extremely important information inside. I really need it! Please call Tara at 4-1291 
LOST: one pearl-drop earring; lost somewhere near SOH on Easter Sunday; Great sentimental value. Call Amy X4218. 
L...--W';-1\_N_T_E_n_ ____.l 
SUMMER JOBS ALL LAND/WATER SPORTS PRESTIGE CHIDREN'S CAMPS ADIRONDACK MOUNTAINS NEAR LAKE PLACID 1-800-786-8373 
CRUISE & LAND TOUR EMPLOY­MENT -Discover how workers can earn up to $2,000+/mo. on Cruise Ships or up to $5,000-$7,000/sum­mer in the Land Tour industry! Call Cruise Information Services: 800­276-5407 Ext C55846 
New sterling store in University Park Mall needs par-time sales and full-time manager. Good pay. Retail experience and a very good attitude required. 1-800-903-1614. 
ALASKA SUMMER EMPLOYMENT -Fishing Industry. Learn how students can earn up to $2,850/mo + benefits (room & board). Call Alaska Information Services: 206-971-3514, xA55841. 
Paid Record Label internship: Red Ant seeks marketing reps in South Bend who love alt./rock music. 1 0­20hrs/wk, working w/record stores, lifestyle stores, colleges, artists. Call Rob Ossorio Toll Free 1-888-RED­ANTS. 
Alaska Employment -Earn up to $3,000-$6,000+/mo. in fisheries, parks, resorts. Airfare! Food/Lodging! Get all the options. Call (919)918-7767, ext A154. 
Cruise Lines Hiring -Earn to $2,000+/mo. plus free world travel (Europe, Caribbean, etc.). No exp. neces­sary. (919)918-7767, ext.C154. 
National Parks Hiring -Plus Forest, Beach Resorts, Ranches, Rafting Companies. Nationwide openings. Call (919)918-7767, ext.R154. 
._I_F_o_R_RE_N_T_ __, 
Near Campus Homes for 97-98 232-2595 
College Park Sublet 
for June and July '97. 3-4 People 2BR, 2 Bath, Washer. Dryer in Apt Call 273-3054 
···college Park Apartment• .. -$175 per person. per month 
-subletting for June & July -washer, dryer, air cond -call X1266 
Must see nice 3 bdr home. 2 blocks/campus. Avail -now or Fall. 273-1566 
Staying in South Bend for the summer?? Sublet our College Park apartment!! CALL 284-4347 for details! 
NICE HOMES NORTH OF ND FOR NEXT SCHOOL YEAR 2773097 
1,2 & 3 BDRM HOMES NEAR CAMPUS. GILLIS PROPERTIES 272-6306 
New house close to campus avail. for summer sublet $240 a month per person 243-9438 
NICE HOMES NORTH OF ND FOR NEXT SCHOOL YEAR 2773097 
POTATO HOUSE 8 BEDROOM FOR NEXT SCHOOL YEAR 2773097 
FOR SALE 
85 Honda Civic, 5-spd, 78K mi. good cond., $1200 obo, call Deepak @271-8358. 
HOUSE FOR SALE BY OWNER Great nbrhd, near ND 2 bdrm brick ranch $99,500 288 7862 
BEDS, COUCHES, TABLES FOR SALE. CALL 243-9390 
FREE Phone Card. No restrictions. Nothing to join, Nothing to lose, .19 min. in the 
U.S. SASE to : Free Phone Card, PO Box 1041, Logansport, IN 46947 
'88 HONDA ACCORD LX Reliable -$4000 or best offer 273-1550 
TICKETS 
Need Graduation Tickets Desparately. Please help! Brian-287-4876 Thank You 
Do you have an extra GRADUA­TION TICKET(S)? Will pay well!! Please call Paige at X4011 
I need grad tickets! Will pay. Call Ethan, X1659. 
NEED ND GRAD. TIX. $$ PLEASE CALL 272-3753 AFTER 5 PM. OR LV. MESSAGE ANYTIME. 
I NEED GRADUATION TIX!! 
WILL PAY BIG $$!1 x2369 
STEVE MILLER TICKETS CENTER STAGE 1st 10 ROWS FLOOR 4/25 JACC; 272-7233. 
PERSONAL 
FAX IT FAST!!! 
Sending & Receiving 
at 
THE COPY SHOP LaFortune Student Center Our Fax# (219) 631-FAX1 
FAX IT FAST!!! 
Need some info but don't know 
where to turn? 
Call COUNSELINE Mon-Thurs from 4pm-12am at 1-7793 to hear professionally audiotaped materials. 
See pg 3 of your ND/SMC phone­book for a list of tapes. Sponsored by the UCC and Psychology club. Let Counseline help you! 
HISPANIC STUDENT RETREAT!! Friday, April 11. Join your ND/SMC family in an experiencia religiosa. Open to Notre Darne and Saint Mary's students, sponsored by Campus Ministry. Call Fr. Pat Neary at 631-7712 for more info. 
$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ 
SOPHOMORE ACCOUNTING MAJORS 
Want the best job on campus? 
Stop by Morrissey Loan Fund across from the Lafortune Info Desk b/w 11:30-12:30 M-F or call4-1188 or 1-6616 for ?'s (Only MALES need apply) 
Family Needs Graduation Tickets -Please Help! Christian 273-6967 
ADOPTION Happily married couple promises love, warmth & a secure future for your baby. Respect for you & your decision. Expenses paid. Joni & Shep 1-800-528-2344 
Liver Buddy #2 So how's it going, pretty good? 
Liver Buddy #1 
OPEN ADOPTION continuing contact with your child. visits,photographs,more. Tom & Tammy, South Bend. 1-800-484-1607code:9883 
CLASS OF 1998 
JOIN SENIOR CLASS COUNCIL 
Boost your resume! Help plan Sr. Week! This is your last chance to get'involved in Class Gov't! 
PICK UP AN APPLICATION OUT­SIDE 213 LAFUN. Due back by the 18th. 
########################### ATIENTION all LESBIAN, GAY. BISEXUAL, and QUESTIONING students, faculty, and staff of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College: There will be a Support Group meeting TODAY at 7:30. For the location of the meeting, call the a­LINE at 236-9661. ########################### 
FRESHMEN-interested in working with SUB next year? pick up appli­cations at SUB on the second floor of LaFun to be on the 1998 SOPHOMORE LITERARY FESTI­VAL COMMITIEE. You are guaran­teed an unforgettable experience with amazing people! questions? call SUB at 1-7757. 
TONIGHT 9TH ANNUAL 
DAWG FEST .. with 
STOMPER BOB at Jazzman's 
CONGRATULATIONS TO MR. TONY ROSSMILLER WHO IS NOW AN OFFICIAL STAFF MEMBER OF THE ALUMNI SENIOR CLUB!! 
Foosball rules! Physics sucks! Can't wait till Saturday, Dina! -Goose 
john-It just isn't the same without you. miss you so much!!!-Kathleen 
Though I don't disagree with the classified that appeared in yester­day's paper, only a true lunatic would know what that word meant and actually use it 
-Mark 
I< 
Thursday, April 10, 1997 The Observer • SPORTS page 15 
•NHl 
Lindros receives first suspension for high-sticking 
By JOHN F. BONFATTI 
Associated Press Writer 
PHILADELPHIA Eric Lindros has been sus­pended two games and fined 
,.. 
CENTER FOR 
SOCIAL CONCERNS
No Summer Plans?? 

AvaiI a b I e (ND Students Only) 
•$1,700 Scholarship/3 credits 
•8 Weeks volunteer work In Cities of ND Alumni Clubs Applications Available: 
at the Center for Social Concerns Projects Available in: 
Alabama Alaska Aurora Austin Tx Detroit Raleigh, NC Ft. Wayne Hilton Head, SC Indianapolis Louisville, KY Kokomo, IN Maine Michigan City, IN Ocala, FL So. Louisiana Plymouth, IN Mpls/St.Paul Dixon, IL So.louisiana and more 
women transitional housing 
Respite Ctr. for physical and emotional 
Mooseheart home for kids (21) 
male-Hispanic youth program-parish 
two; LaSed, Red Cross 
Food program (includes garden) 
Boys & Girls Club 
(Car) -Boys & Girls Club 3 projects 
male-Outreach programs 
YWCA shelter for women and kids 
small home for teen aged girls 
(Car) -Elderly 
tutoring/ recreation for kids 
transitional housing-women, kids 
Boys & Girls Club 
housing program Disabilitiesprogram 
transitional home/women/kids $2,000 for two high-sticking the Rangers and Saturday incidents in the Philadelphia night's road game against Flyers game Monday night Montreal. It's the first suspen­against the New York Rangers. sion in his five-year NHL ca­
The Flyers captain will miss reer. Thursday's home game against The loss of their best player 
Stop in for more information or call Sue Cunningham, 1-7867 or Erika Fuehrmeyer, 4-1384 
A 
SPECIAL INVITATION 
Announces the Following Introductory Offers of... 
r-$c-lr-s-~ lr-~lr-~~ l 
I ~ II c~~Proces~rylell t Styl~t II ~ & Style I 
L----~L----~L----~L----~
Please use the Special Savings invitation and get to know us. You'll be pleased with the quality and service we provide, and we will do our best to merit your confidence and patronage. 
We hope to see you soon. 
•Please call to schedule your appointment• 
• INTRODUCTORY OFFER • ADir& WDN' 
Ad must be presented to receptionist before ser­1357 N. Ironwood Drive vices are performed South Bend, IN 46615 (Certain restrictions apply) Tel. 219-289-5080 
Long or tinted hair add $10. Perm includes shampoo, haircut, & finish. No other discounts apply. Open some evenings. Atria Salon reserves the right to refuse ·service to any client whose hair condition is unsuitable. Expires May 9, 1997. 
comes at a crucial time for the Flyers, who need to win their final three regular-season games to be assured of first place and the top playoff seed in the Eastern Conference. 
"What the league ruled is what we have to live with," Flyers general manager Bob Clarke said Wednesday. "We'll just go about our business and try to win our last three games." 
The suspension, announced by the league Wednesday, stems from the two double­minor penalties Lindros received during the game. He broke the nose of Shane Churla with one high-stick, then cut the face of Ulf Samuelsson with another one late in the game. 
Lindros, who has 31 goals and 46 assists in 51 games this season, spoke earlier in the day on the possibility of league action. 
"It's an isolated incident," he said. "It happened once. I never swung my stick before. I never attempted to hurt anybody and have never been suspended for anything." 
NHL vice president Brian Burke termed Lindros' high­stick of Churla "reckless and dangerous," adding, "It is clear that his actions against Mr. Churla were not defensive in nature." 
Burk1;1 said the shot Lindros gave Samuelsson was "more of 
a defensive action than offense. 
Nonetheless, this type of con­
duct can not be tolerated." 
Lindros, who missed 28 games earlier this year with various injuries, has a dramatic impact on the Flyers. Over his five years in Philadelphia, they are 34-39-8 without him in the lineup. 
After taking a number of hits he felt were illegal but weren't called penalties against the Rangers, Lindros went after Churla in the second period, taking a four-minute high-stick­ing penalty when he broke the Ranger tough guy's nose. 
Trailing 2-1 at the time, the Rangers scored twice while Lindros was in the box and won 3-2. Lindros then punctuated his frustration at the end of the game by cross-checking Samuelsson in the chin, open­ing a gash that took 15 stitches to close. 
Lindros has learned to keep his composure in his five years as a pro, and is willing to let others fight his battles -as­suming he has teammates will­ing to do so. When none do, it's Lindros' nature to take matters into his own hands. 
In the offseason, the Flyers brought in three enforcers ­Daniel Lacroix, Dan Kordic and Scott Daniels -with the idea that somebody would stand up for Lindros, but that didn't hap­pen against the Rangers. 
by 
WILLIAM INGE 
MOREAU CENTER / LITTLE THEATRE APRIL 10, 11,12 at 8 p.m. APRIL 13 at 2:30 p.m. 
For ticket information, call: 219/284-4626 
CINEMA AT THE SNITE 
presented by Notre Dame Communication and Theatre 
631-7361 


JANET MASUN, THE NEW YORK TIMES 
"IMPA~~IONED AND VIGOROU~:' 
DANIEL WltiO~A 
DAY-LEWIS RYDER
nm nrl1Ul}Cffif]BT F
~1\J-......···.·........ ~ IPG-131,0. . ©19% IWENTIETH CENTURY FOX P.Q..~ Ill 
FRIDAY AND SATURDAY APRIL 11 ST AN.D 12ND 
7:30 and 9:45 p.m. 
Next weekend: THE ENGLISH PATIENT 
http://www.nd.edu/-cothweb/wwwsnite.html 
...
a -~~-~---------~­
-~­
... 
page 16 The Observer • SPORTS Thursday, April 10, 1997 
• MEN's TENNIS 
Netters secure close victory over Wildcats, 4-3 
By JIM ZALETA 
Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame men's tennis team improved its record to 16­4 Wednesday with a tight 4-3 victory over the Northwestern Wildcats. They have won seven out of their last eight matches, with the sole loss coming in the semifinals of the Blue-Gray Classic. 
"We had to keep fighting hard to win this match," senior co-captain Marco Magnano said after the match. "Either team could beat the other on any given day." 
The eleventh-ranked Irish secured the win with a come­from-behind victory at the No. 5 spot by junior Danny Rothschild. Freshman Ryan Sachire also helped out in the victory. 
"I served well, and I kept him running," said Sachire. 
He had a two set victory over Alex Witt. Witt was defeated by Jakub Pietrowski earlier in the season in the quarterfinals of the Rolex National Championships. Sachire tired Witt out, making him run up to the net and to the corners of the court. The second set went fast as Sachire beat Witt 6-3, 6­1. 
The two big wins that led Notre Dame to victory were in the No. 4 and 5 singles. No. 4 seed sophomore Brian Patterson thought Ryan Tarpley would be an easy match after winning the first set 6-1. Tarpley was not going to go down easily though, turning the tables on Patterson, winning the middle set 6-1. The final set was neck and neck through­out, but Patterson turned up the heat and raced off with the victory. The third set started off slow, but Patterson sped off winning it 6-3. 
"My patience was working best for me today," said Patterson. "He hits extremely hard, and it doesn't matter how good someone is because they 
University of Notre Dame Educational Media 
Office ofInformation Technologies 
Due to sudden vendor changes, Photo of Educational Media will no longer be able to offer next day processing of individual's color snapshots. We will still offer E-6 color slide processing and the handling of larger custom color printing orders. The bookstore will continue to service student & faculty's ne~t-day color print needs. 

· 

Sophomore Brian Patterson captured a victory at No. 4 singles. 

------~~~--------------------------------,
Chinese -American Restaurant and Cocktail Lounge 
Authentic Stcchuan, Mandarin and Hunan Cuisine 
Lunches starting at ....$4.25 Dinners starting at ....$5.95 Banquet rooms available up to 200 
GREAT \YALL 
Bar and Restaurant open 7 days a week 
llO Pixie Way N., SoYthJicnd (next to Howard Johnson) 
-
Planner's First & Last 
111m 1&&1 
Have you always wanted to compete? Now's your chance to sw1m! 

- When: Where:  
Who: IEYents:  
-­ 
s~.n-ups:  
FacultY' & Stall: Entrance Fee:  

SUNDAY, APRIL 20 FROM 2-4PM 
ROLF'S AQUATIC CENTER 
ALL NON·YARSITY SWIMMERS FROM NO & SAINT MARY'S, NO FACULTY & STAFF, AND HOLY CROSS STUDENTS 
SO FLY SO BACK 100 IM 200 MEDLEY RELAY 200 FREESTYLE RELAY 
LAFORTUNE 1ST FLOOR ELEVATOR LOBBY APRIL 5 & 6 ( 1-5PM) APRIL 12 & 13 (1-5PM) 
CALL PHYLLis CARLsoN 1-5777 
NoNE <couRTEsY oF FLANNER) 

are bound to miss." 
Rothschild's match proved to be the clincher. In the first set, Rothschild competed in a some­what conservative game, play­ing laid back and forcing Doug Bohaboy to make mistakes. Rothschild took the first set 6-1. Bohaboy came out strong, tak­ing a 3-0 lead in the second set before finally winning it 6-3. 
Rothschild came back to tie the deciding set at 5-S. With his teammates offering encour­agement from the observation deck, the Notre Dame junior pulled in the victory for the Irish, giving them the fourth point. 
Junior Jakub Pietrowski had a tough match against Marc Silva. 
In a match of muscles, Silva proved to be victorious, defeat­ing Pietrowski at the No. 2 sin­gles spot, 7-6, 6-3. No. 3 seed senior Ryan Simme gave up a 5-0 lead in the first set to lose in a tiebreaker, 7-6 to Martin Bengtsson. The second set was tight throughout, but Bengtsson come out with the 6-3 victory. 
Junior Eric Enloe had a tough welcome back after sitting out last Saturday's match against Purdue. Enloe faced Richard Preschem at No. 6 singles. Enloe lost in two sets, 6-4, 6-4. 
In the doubles portion of the match, the Irish came out strong with a quick 8-1 win in the No. 1 slot. Pietrowski and Patterson were unstoppable. The eighteenth-ranked pair proved why they are believed to be a contender in the NCAA doubles tournament. 
Sachire and fellow freshman Trent Miller couldn't handle the harsh serves delivered by Witt and Prechem. 
"Those guys hit harder than anyone we have played against all year," Miller said. "We had too many unforced errors." 
The No. 3 doubles team of Simme and Rothschild had a close match until the Irish took charge to defeat Tarpley and Bengtsson, 8-4. 
Quest~ons or Problems: 
CALL MATT PHELAN (4-1204) OR DEREK MULLEN (4-1176) 
·"11I''Ii 
ADVERTISEMENT 

l 
VOLUME 2, NUMBER 7 1997 

Hi! I'm Colleen Henshaw, your NIKE Student Rep. It's 
~~~~~u~~~A·~~~~~~A~~~A·~~~~Aw~~ z
-= ·-= 
U
on the latest sports & NIKE events at Notre 
Dame. Got some great ideas for SportsPage? K f · 1
0 
now an exceptlona athlete who deserves some press? Let me know at colleen.henshaw@nike.com . If you want to talk to NIKE HO directly, use: 
sports.page@nike.com. 
IU 
... 
:I 
E 
IU 
... 
.... 
c: 
II 
.D :I 
v 
II 
v 
.... 
...
"' 
IU 
> 
II 
> 
IU 
c: 0 
.... 
IU 
Cll 
... 
u 
Cll 
... 
0 
v 
II 
0 
v 
s 
D 
E L 
N E 
s 
6 
WOMEN'S SOFTBALLIV 
VS. PROVIDENCE 
SOFTBALL FIELD 
11:00 AM 
MEN'S BASEBALL!V 
VS. BOSTON COLLEGE ElK STADIUM NOON 
13 
WOMEN'S TENNISN 
VS. BOSTON COLLEGE 
ECK TENNIS PAVILION 
10:00 AM 
WOMEN'S SOFTBALL!V 
AT VILLANOVA 
11:00 AM 
MEN'S BASEBALL!V 
AT RUTGERS NOON 
20 
MEN'S LACROSSEN 
AT MASSACHUSETTS 1:00PM 
WOMEN'S SOFTBALL!V 
AT CONNECTICUT 
11:00 AM 
MEN'S BASEBALUV 
VS. VILLANOVA ECK STADIUM NOON 
27 
WOMEN'S SOFTBALUV 
VS. RUTGERS SOFTBALL FIELD 11 00 AM 
MEN'S BASEBALLIV 
AT PITT, NOON 
BOOKSTORE BASKETBALL FINALS 
(SEE SIDELINES FOR DETAILS) 
7 
14 
21 
28 
U-= 
1 
WOMEN'S TENNISN 
AT KENTUCKY 1 00 PM 
8 
WOMEN'S TENNISN AT INDIANA 3:00PM 
MEN'S BASEBALL!V 
VS. CHICAGO STATE ECK STADIUM 500 PM 
15 
MEN'S TENNISN 
VS. MICHIGAN ECK PAVILION, 3:30 PM 
WOMEN'S TENNISN 
VS. HAWAII ECK PAVILION, 3:30PM 
W/SOFTBALLIV 
VS. NORTHWESTERN SOFTBALL FIELD 3:30PM 
MEN'S BASEBALL/V 
AT PURDUE, 4:00 PM 
22 MEN'S BASEBALL!V 
AT MICHIGAN 700 PM 
29 
MEN'S BASEBALL!V 
VS. VALPARAISO ECK STADIUM 700 PM 
April is a busy month around here, 
especially for me. Want to be part of the action? If so, drop me a line at colleen.henshaw@nike.com, and I'll give you the details ... Be sure to head out to the Bookstore Basketball finals on April 27 for an extravaganza of athletic talent that's sure to please. I can GUARANTEE that! ... Anyone interested in getting together this month to play field hockey? If so, drop me an e-mail ... YOU DON'T WANT TO MISS THIS! Be sure to take part in the first-ever campus-wide Bench Press Competition, brought to you by the men of Dillon f-lail. Come by on April12 starting at 2 p.m. in Gyms 1 and 2 at the JACC. All proceeds will benefit the Center for the Homeless. Entries are available at the Rock and from your dorm athletic commissioner. 
W  U  ~~  
2  3  4  5  
MEN'S BASEBALLIV  WOMEN'S SOFTBALL!V  MEN'S LACROSSEN  MEN'S TENNISN  M/W TRACK!V  
VS. EASTERN ILLINOIS  AT PURDUE  VS. HOFSTRA  VS. PURDUE  VS. MIAMI, OH/  
ECK STADIUM  2:00PM  MOOSE KRAUSE FIELD  ECK TENNIS PAVILION  WESTERN MICHIGAN  
5:00 PM  MEN'S BASEBALLIV  3:00 PM  3:00 PM  MEN'S BASEBALL!V  
VS. WIS.-MILWAUKEE  WOMEN'S SOFTBALL/V  WOMEN'S TENNISN  VS. PROVIDENCE  
ECK STADIUM  VS. BOSTON COLLEGE  VS. WILLIAM AND MARY  ECK STADIUM, NOON  
5:00 PM  SOFTBALL FIELD  ECK TENNIS PAVILION  MEN'S VOLLEYBALL/V  
4:00 PM  3 00 PM:  AT MICHIGAN  
7:00PM  

9 10 11 12 
MEN'S TENNISN WOMEN'S SOFTBALL!V WOMEN'S TENNISN 
MEN'S AND WOMEN'S MEN'S BASEBALL!V 
VS. NORTHWESTERN AT MICHIGAN VS. DRAKE 
AT RUTGERS ECK TENNIS PAVILION 2:00PM ECK TENNIS PAVILION 
TRACK/V 
NOON 3:30PM 3:00PM 
AT MIAMI INVITATIONAL 
MEN'S BASEBALL!V 
OXFORD, OH BENCH PRESS 
MEN'S LACROSSEN VS. IUPUI MEN'S AND WOMEN'S WOMEN'S SOFTBALL!V COMPEmiON
VS. BUTLER ECK STADIUM 
TRACK/V 
AT VILLANOVA GYMS 1 AND 2
MOOSE KRAUSE FIELD 5:00PM AT SEA RAY RELAYS 
NOON JACC, 2:00 PM
3:00PM 
KNOXVILLE, TN (SEE SIDELINES 
MEN'S BASEBALL!V 
FOR DETAILS)VS. INDIANA 
.
ECK STADIUM 6:00PM 
16 17 18 19 MEN'S BASEBALL!V MEN'S lACROSSEN M!WTRACK/V WOMEN'S SOFTBALLIV MEN'S BASEBALL!V 
VS. BOWLING GREEN VS. AIR FORCE AT MT. SAC INVITATIONAL 
AT ST. JOHNS VS. VILLANOVA ECK STADIUM MOOSE KRAUSE FIELD WALNUT, CA 
NOON ECK STADIUM 5:00PM 3:00PM AND AT 
5:00PM 
KANSAS RELAYS VS. VALPARAISO 
WOMEN'S SOFTBALL!V 
LAWRENCE, KS SOFTBALL FIELD 4:00PM 
MEN'S BASEBALL!V 
VS. INDIANA TECH ECK STADIUM 5:00 PM 
23 24 25 26 
WOMEN'S SOFTBALL!V MEN'S BASEBALL!V M!WTRACK/V MEN'S LACROSSEN MEN'S BASEBALUV 
VS. BUTLER VS. TOLEDO AT DRAKE RELAYS 
AT MICHIGAN STATE AT WESTERN VIRGINIA SOFTBALL FIELD ECK STADIUM DES MOINES, lA 
1:30PM NOON 4:00PM 6:00PM AND AT 
WOMEN'S SOFTBALL!V 
MEN'S BASEBALL/V HILSDALE RELAYS 
VS. RUTGERS VS. NORTHWESTERN 
HILSDALE, Ml 
SOFTBALL FIELD ECK STADIUM 
NOON 7:00PM 
30 
WOMEN'S SOFTBALL!V 
VS. WESTERN MICHIGAN SOFTBALL FIELD 4:00PM 
D 0 IN G I T ••• Some people relish new challenges. Sara Gage most 
definitely is one of these special people. 
Gage's friends will tell you that her engine is always run­ning. Her energy, passion, and curiosity have led her to try a wide variety of cam­pus athletic activities. Presently, she is a member of the Ultimate Frisbee Team and co-captain of lnterhall Cross-Country. Gage has also played lnterhall Softball and Basketball. 
Considering the zeal with which Gage attacks athletics, one would think she has no time to do anything else. Wrong! Her 
3.5 GPA in History serves notice that her 
enthusiasm for life extends to academics. "Sports are a good way to relax and to get out of acade­mics for a while," Gage says. "It's physical exertion, but not mental. I'm doing something productive, but I don't have to think about it." 
CAMPUS CORRESPONDENT: TIMOTHY 5. MCCONN, JUNIOR 

n n
" 
~
~ 
z
n 
C> 
,. 
z ~ 
" 
v;" 
~
ffi 
~ 
~ 
" i1 
~ ~ 
z 
~ 
-< 
'" 
" /;;
~ 
~ g ~ 
~ < 
-<
~ ,. ~ 
~ 
I! 
0 ~ 
0 
~ 
~ 
~ 
~ 
z '<
-i n 
~ 
~ 
"'
"' " 
~ 
-< ~ ~ 
~ 
z 0 
~ g 
c ~ ~ 
~ 
~ 
~ 
~ c 
n
z 
0
., ~ 0 
'!' 
,. z 
C>
z 
,.
0 
~ I 
:=-m 
ii .__ -< <
,. 
z
C> 
z ~
,. 
8 n ~ ,. 
" 
~ 
~ ~ 
~ 
,. 
" 
-
THE GOAL OF THIS SPORTSPAGE IS TO INFORM STUDENTS ABOUT SPORTS ON CAMPUS. NIKE DOES NOT SPONSOR ANY VARSITY, INTRAMURAL OR CLUB SPORTS ON THIS CAMPUS AND THIS PAGE DOES NOT IN ANY WAY IMPLY SUCH SPONSORSHIP. 
page 18 The Observer • SPORTS Thursday, April I 0, 1997 
Special 
continued from page 24 
allows the "skill" position play­ers to shine. 
In the first few weeks of spring practice, not all of the special teams units have seen action because of the vast array of adjustments that are being made to the offensive and de­fensive schemes. 
However, there is one very important special teams posi­tion for which the battle ha:s al­ready begun. Senior Scott Cengia, junior Kevin Kopka, and sophomore Jim Sanson are all in the running 'for the place kicking job. 
Each of the players has a sig­nificant amount of experience, and each has seen his share of ups and downs during his ca­reer at Notre Dame. 
Kopka, who had a rocky freshman season before a knee injury kept him out of action in 1996, is healthy again and has been looking strong at practice. 
''I'm feeling pretty good," Kopka commented. "My knee's healing up real well." 
Cengia is also healthy again, and according to head coach Bob Davie, the race for the starting spot is on... 
"I want to get it to one kicker if I can," explained Davie. "There's competition there. We chart everything from now until Georgia Tech. It's probably dead even right now." 
Kopka acknowledged that all of the kickers are having a strong spring. 
"I've been hitting the ball real well," said Kopka, "but so have all of the other guys out there." 
"It's remarkable," said Davie of the kicking at practice. "It really does verify that competi­tion raises the level everybody 
plays at. It's just [a matter ofl 
getting the right one and giving 
him the confidence where he 
doesn't feel like the manager's 
coming out to put in a relief 
pitcher." -The other half of the kicking 
duties will most likely fall on 
the shoulders of Hunter Smith. 
Although backup punter Chris 
Wachtel "Xill be returning in the 
fall, Smith is considered a lock 
for the job. 
Smith indicated that improv­
ing his hang time and place­
ment were his goals for the 
spring. Although the junior has 
a shot at All-American honors 
in 1997, he placed more em­
phasis on the aims of the entire 
punt coverage unit. 
"We definitely want to be in 
the top five or 10 in net punt­
ing," stated Smith. "If we can 
do that as a team, then the per­
sonal accolades will come." 
The next thing Davie must 
consider is coverage, and the 
first year coach is confident 
that this should not be a prob­
lem. 
"I have my hopes up," Davie 
admitted, "because one of the 
signs of a great defensive team 
is you've got a lot of players 
who can run down on kickoffs 
and punts. It's all the same 
style of player you 'rc looking 
for. Those young linebacker­
type players arc the ones." 
Some of the players that 
Davie included in his list of spe­
cial teams types were Ronnie 
Nicks, Antwoine Wellington, 
Joe Thomas, and Joey Ferrer. 
These players were counted on 
to keep the defensive front, 
which was weakened by grad­
uation, out of sticky situations. 
The final special teams unit 
will be doing all that it can to 
corner oppposing defenses in 
their own territory. Lou Holtz's 
punt and kick return teams had 
a great deal of success over the 
RECICLEN 
EL OBSERVER 
The Observer 
is now hiring for the following position: 
Illustrator Editor 
Ifinterested, submit a one page statement of interest and a brief page portfolio to the Observer, on the 3rd floor ofLaFortune, by Thursday, April 10. Applications should be addressed to Ed Leader. Questions? X4428 

years. Davie understands this and sees no reason to alter the things that have worked in the past. 
"I think scheme-wise," said Davie, "we'll probably stay the same. We've been very suc­cessful with that. Those schemes have been tested over time." 
When asked what the key to the return teams was, Davie pointed to the few players who do actually get credit for their special teams work. 
"Face it," Davie asserted. "the key to any return game is who's returning. With Allen Hossum coming back and Autry Denson and Shannon Stephens, I don't want to change things. We've been successful." 
While they may not receive any of the headlines or win any honors for outstanding perfor­mance in a particular game, the special teams just might be the most significant group of play­ers on the entire 1997 Irish squad. As the season ap­proaches, it is they who will al­low Davie and his staff to focus on "more important" things. 

If you need to do some catching up or want to get a jump on fall, summer classes at Holy Cross College may be just the ticket. Choose one or both sessions, each offering a wide variety of quality general education courses. And pay our summer tuition rate of just $160 per credit hour. 
Take advantage of exceptionally small classes, a dedicated and caring faculty, and our convenient location just to the west of the University of Notre Dame campus. Credit earned is transferable. 
You'll enjoy summer activities even more, knowing that you're 
f ·.HOLY 
a1so getting ahead in your studies. Write or call Holy Cross College today. Applications for Summer Sessions I and II, as well CROSS as for the 1997 Fall Semester, are now being accepted. I~ ~COLLEGE
:E 
Office ofAdmissions 
P.O. Box 308 • Notre Dame. IN 46556
Session I-May 19 to June 26 
(219) 239-8400, ext. 22 • Fax (219) 233-7427
Session II -June 30 to August 7 
e-mail: hccadmis@gnn.com 
ASIAN-AMERICAN LAW STUDENTS ASSOCIATION and WOMEN'S LEGAL FORUM 
present 
PRACTICING LAW: A MULTI-FACETED PERSPECTIVE 
by 
Mary Yu, 
Notre Dame Law School, 1993 Prosecutor, King County, Seattle, WA 
Friday, April 11 
12:00 pm Notre Dame Law School, Room 101 
Come meet one ofour own graduates, a female Asian-American attorney who has been practicing law in the public sectorfor four years. Ms. Yu will speak about her experiences as a female, Asian­American attorney in the Seattle area. The address will be followed by a question and answer session and a reception in the law school. 
Thursday, April I 0, 1997 
The Observer • SPORTS page 19 
• NFL 
NFL bails out floundering CFL 
Associated Press 
TORONTO 
The NFL provided the finan­cially strapped Canadian Football League with $3 million on Wednesday, an agreement that will give the NFL the right to use the CFL to develop play­ers. 
"We want to see football suc­ceed wherever it's played," NFL commissioner Paul Tagliabue said. 
"The CFL is an exciting brand of football with a rich history and a unique style of play. We believe a strong, vibrant CFL is very important for the sport." 
Other elements of the agree­ment: 
•The 
NFL will consider play­ing regular-season games in Toronto and Vancouver. 

•The 
CFL will try to ease the way in which its players are signed by NFL teams. 

•An 
annual game will be played between the champion of the NFL-sponsored World League and the CFL's Grey Cup winner. 


The NFL has declined in the past to expand int~ Canada, cit­ing agreements with the CFL. This agreement will, in effect, allow the NFL to use the CFL to develop players, much as it has used the World League. 
The NFL aid, which will be paid this year in U.S. dollars but cover a five-year period, will help tlie CFL market its product. NFL staff members will spend time at the CFL's Toronto headquarters. 
The CFL is trying to regroup following the collapse of the Ottawa Rough Riders last sea­son and the league's failed U.S. expansion. 
"I believe this is a very good day for Canadian football in Canada and a good day for football in Canada," CFL chair­man John Tory said. 
"We have great new partners who love our game for what it1 is. Not better, not worse, but unique and different." 
•>SPORTS ·BRIEFS 
·.¢1rinhingWaii Orientations are available at the climbing wall in the Rockne Memorial 
. . i~ .. t lj!;~.· and es ..... .. p:rt1cSign~up ou Stde the wall. 
sponsori1;1g Classes. All be certified 1­
lished teams or advanced sign-ups necessary. 
.•... Special Olympics "Volunteers are needed to . help Special Olympic swim­
mers. Practices are at Rolfs Aquatic Center on Mondays ·:~tnd Wednesdays from 4:30­
5:30 p.m. for more info, call coach Dennis Stark at 1­
RecSports will be hiring full-time, one part-time, substitutes to 
H<'II>HU 
at the St. Joseph Beach this summer. contact Greg at 1-5100 
come to RecSports office at Joyce <:;enter to fill out an tion:. 
SATURDAY & SUNDAY APRIL 12 & APRIL 13 JOYCE CENTER Men's & Women's Divisions T-Shirts to all Participants Bring Your Own Racquet Balls Will be Provided Refreshments Will be Served 
Register in Advance at Z?.-..r--= Deadline: Thursday, April 1 0 $8.00 Fee 
l
I I 
-
page 20 
...._ 
Bookstore 
continued from page 24 
We were all showering, and we started to talk basketball. And the rest is history," he said. 
Some are still searching for that fifth and final ingredient. "We put together a team from the veterans of last year," said sophomore Frank Law. "But in bringing the team together, we realized we are one short of the five needed." 
In the end, the team with the best redpe will end up with the prize. 
Will a combination of old and new win out over random selection? 
That and several other mix­tures, will fight it out on the courts in the next few weeks. 
Ifyou are interested in: •journalism • design • pay consider joining the Observer Production Staff. Contact 
Mark DeBoy at 1-5303. 
Thursday, April 10, 1997
The Observer • SPORTS 


Scoreboard 

We Must Be Butter ... def. Good Vibrations Frat House 12 def. Team 73 Twitchy Moose's Ear def. 5 Little Women 0.]. PeeWee, & 3 other guys... def. Team 421 All Good G'tlJ,~ngz def.You Know What Your Problem Is... We Usually Play Old Guys ... def. 1 Shirt and 4 Skins Toss My Saladdef. Team 110 The Mighty Bomjack Show def. Ignorance is Bliss The Old & Injured def. Tone Lokie and the Flying joads Dos McQuades and the 3 Amigos def. Set to Pop TeantlSl ctef;Everyqqdy Laughs at Poop II Master Nate w/WSND... def. The Stiff Pianists TeaniAldi def. Pinky Like Wihgy 4 Tall Guys & Dan def. Sesame Baked Pollack Team 61 def. Team 72 Moe's Tavern def. God Squad ~mokexanct~(i..PJ,lndit$ de(, Sweeter Than a Cherry Pie... The Nerd Herd def. You Win The Chuckers def. Beserkers -Special Edition Baby's Got Sauce def. The Big Snack & Mystery Machine Relish the F6otlong def. The Caucasian Sensations Huntournees def. 3 Under Par 
..Jus~~n.Rai(j,er ~{·)~}'Vas .• ·.···.. ...... . . . . ·. Gluve w/His Special Sauce def. The Final Frontier Lafay~tte Sq I'lurtioing Co:def. Rockstars Vertical Pleasure III... def. Flynnless 


Medjugorje 
March 25, 1997 Message Our Lady, Queen of Peace 
"Dear Children! Today in a special way, I invite you to take the_ cross in the hands and to meditate on the wounds of Jesus. As of Jesus to heal your wounds, which you, dear children, during your life sustained because of your sins or the sins of your par­ents. ·only in this way, dear children, you will understand that the world is in need of healing of faith in God the Creator. By Jesus' passion and death on the cross, you will understand that only through prayer you, too, can become true apostles of faith; when, in simplicity and prayer, you live faith which is a gift. Thank you for having responded to my call." 
For more information about Marian apparitions and devotions, visit the Children of Mary website: http://www.nd.edu:80/-mary/ Sponsored by Queen of Peace Ministries, P.O. Box 761, Notre Dame, IN 46556, (219)288-8777 
ATTENTION GOVERNMENT MAJORS! 
Now is the time to applyfor a fall1997 Government Internship 
Interviews will be held April 8, 9, 10 217 O'Shaughnessy 
For more information call Carolina Arroyo,631-8248 
-

Thurs: D.l. Dance Party Free Dart and Pool lessons for ladies-Spm All Weekend: OJ Dance Party Free Prizes and Collectables ALL WEEKEND LONG! 
Always open 'til 3AM M·F open at Sat at noon 

CLASS OF '98 Be apart oyour Class Council. 

AppHcations due by the 18th. 
Available outside 213 Lafortune. 
~~--­

.
cLuw·z 
V\ 
·.THURSDAY 
Nl~ 
DAW6-FEST 
COLLE~I 
20¢ 123 wings every Tuesday 
coupons valid Sun., Mon., Tues., Wed., & Thurs. 
expires 5131!97 • dine-in only expires 5131!97 • dine-in only 
expires 5131!97 • dine-in only expires 5131!97 • dine-in only 
Hey seniors-have we got a senior week planned for you!!! Come in and check out our unbeatable line up for your final week in South Bend. Thanks for a great year! 
D]'s~ NitJbi:DertNye 
J-.MWM 
Tuesday, Thursday, .) ·.r Friday & Saturday · 
DJ's and Daily Specials 
Friday Crab Races and Free Food 
7:30 
Break Away 
\ SPORTS BAR & GRILL 
DJ • ,.ues-Sat • 9:00pm-3:00am Karaoke • Sunday • 7:30-?? 
Monday 
A/l-U-Can-Eat Prime Rib 
Wednesday Friday 
Perch Crab Legs 
Play Hard 
1516 N Ironwood • 282-2929 
'S 
for" ~heesebureer in p11r11dise! 
417 N. MICHIGAN 233 p 5981 
2206 
Mishawaka Ave 289-4939' 
ily Specials 
ND/SMC student night 
Wed 
9:00-Ciose 
Friday Fish Special 
10% Student iscount on meals 
·­
-
•-­
page 22 The Observer • SPORTS Thursday, April 10, 1997 
are suspenseful and exciting,
• SOFTBALL 
Irish coach Kevin Corrigan
Lacrosse 
probably would not mind a bor­ing 14-0 blowout. 
continued from page 24
Wolverines next on tap for Irish 
The team plays host to Air 
By ALLISON KRILLA Sports Wrirer 
Coming off a two-game sweep of Big East foe Providence before a home­town crowd, the Notre Dame softball team travels to 1\Iichigan today for a double­header against the mighty Wolverines. 
The non-conference games against the Big Ten's top team in 1996 "viii be a tune-up for the Irish, who play four games this weekend against confer­ence rival Villanova. 
"It would be easy to look ahead (to the weekend games vs. Villanova). but we need these games to improve," said freshman Tara King. 
"Michigan is a team we
--
would usually only see in the (NCAA) regionals, so it's good to get a leg up on the (postsea­son) competition, especially with wins (today)," said junior pitcher Kelly Nichols. Michigan's high powered offense will keep Notre Dame on its toes, as the Wolverines return 12 letterwinners from last year's 51-14 squad. "(Michigan) will be tough comp"etition," said King, who went 2-4 in game one against Providence. "If we hit the way we have been, we'll have no problems." Meghan Murray looks to 

continue her hot hitting against the Maize and Blue. Murray leads an imposing Irish lineup that pounded out 30 hits, including a season high 16 hits in game one. 
The team also recorded sea­son highs in doubles (five) and triples (three) against the Lady Friars. 
"We got into a groove, and everyone has found their swing," said King. 
Although the Irish have excelled at the plate, defense will be key if they are to defeat the Wolverines at Alumni Field in Ann Arbor. 
"In practice, we worked on defense because we know that Michigan is a good hitting team that will put the ball in play," said Nichols. "If we can cut down on errors and jump out ahead from the start, we'll do well." 
While the offense provided a cushion for the pitching staff, Notre Dame's hurlers looked exceptionally sharp against Providence. Joy Battersby threw seven strong innings in game one, allowing four runs to cross the plate and fanning eight. Kelly Nichols stopped the Lady Friars in game two, a 9-1 victory for Notre Dame. Nichols increased her overall record to 6-4 with six strike­outs on that day. 
"(The pitching staff) is more 
hday Suzy·Q! 

(stuggie style) 
Love, M, D, S, C, M, & R 
Come learn the strategies that have helped students of all disciplines take final & comprehensive exams... 
Exam-Taking 
Strategies in
-
Graduate School 
Presentation & discussion led by Dr. Dominic Vachon, from the University Counseling Center, will cover: 
1. 
Overcoming "Academic Choking" & performance anxiety; 

2. 
Techniques to improve concentration & performance; 

3. 
Organizing thoughts under pressure; 

4. 
Avoiding the "Anxiety Contagion" spreading through your program. 


Date: Sunday, April13 
Place: Fischer-O'Hara Grace Community Ctr 
Time: 4pm-5pm 
Come learn what works from students who have already succeeded in your program! 
·sponsored by F>scher·O"Hara Grace ReSidences the Un>verSity Counseling Ctr & Campus M1n1stry 
confident that we can back them up with runs and defense," said King. "They're not scared to throw pitches, because if the other team gets hits, they are confident that our hitting will come through." 
Nichols agrees that the impressive offensive perfor­mance has helped the staff. 
"It's helpful when you know you're ahead. You can try more things without the fear that every pitch has to be per­fect," Nichols said. 
With consistent bats and strong pitching performances, the Irish hope to improve on their 18-16 record, one game at a time. 
6-1 run to start the second half. The same was true in their last game against Hofstra. The Irish pulled to a 7-0 lead before eventually winning that con­test, 10-9. 
Yesterday's win was Notre Dame's first in the Great Western Lacrosse League this season. Should the Irish defeat the other two members of the conference, Air Force and Ohio State, they will be awarded a bid in the NCAA tournament. 
The Irish are riding a five­game winning streak and are serious contenders for a national title, but they need to find consistency if they are to win their remaining games. 
And although such close wins 
Force on Thursday, April17. 
Have Something to say? Use the Observer Classifieds 
Celebrate! 
The following members of the Notre Dame and St. Mary's community will be Confirmed in the Roman Catholic Church: 
Emily Affeldt, Juanita Alejandro, Angela Anderson, Cheryl Asci, Lisa Bugni, Antonia Dey, Jamie Fanning, James Fees, Jeff Fox, Megan Gallagher, Cynthia Garcia, Wendy Gebert, Jalaima Graham, Christina Hernandez-Kolski 
' 
Meghan Lynch, Elizabeth Moriarty, Kelly Puzio, Mark Tate, Nicole Varner, Carmen Walker, Rebecca Welch, Kathryn Weston-Overbey 
Rite of Confirmation and Mass Sunday, April13, 1997 2:00p.m Basilica of the Sacred Heart Bishop John M.D' Arcy, presider 
Please Come and Support These Candidates 

DEADLINE EXTENDED 
-·-·-·-·­
WORK CATERING FOR GRADUATION 
Mayio-I8 
• $6.75 per hour 
• 
Flexible Schedule 

• 
Free room I board 


Housing contract Deadline: April I oth Sign up: Monday -Saturday Io:oo am to s:oo pm Catering Employment Office SDH/ Lower level 

.... 

Thursday, April 10, 1997 The Observer • TODAY page 23 
MEN ABOUT CAMPUS 
TOP THE TffiNGS TO 00 WITH THE OBSERVER 
10 WRAPHSH 9 SlllSITn'TE li!'.T>ERGARME".TSON L~l'!\'DRY DAY 
K. ll'E'\I'E'ISIVE S.Y.R GIFf Fl':>; 111111 ORIGA.,IL "A PlF.RODACTYL" 
6: TO SHIELD EYES FROM BLAZING SO!TJH Br~'<'D Sl 'N 5 ALOTAWAYDI!\1NGHAU.GRE~SE ~ ABSORB VALVAilLETLmO~ MONEY 3 HOCSE -TRAIN IUEGAL DORM PITS 2 PLACE ~!AT FOR DINING HALL TRAY I UGIIT O'.lAREITES OFF ITS HO rTOPICS 
MOTHER GOOSE & GRIMM 
I NOIIC.E \HAT "THE NEW ORG CHAI\T HAS '{OUR BOX LOWER THAN [)EFORE. 
I 
ACROSS 24 They're nuts 27 Daughter of
1 Coarse tobacco Homer5 Arm, to Armand 28 Wife of Saturn 9 It holds the 
31 Find--for mayo (pair with)
12 Winner of a 32 Reserved1944 Pulitzer 34 Shady way
13 "Lovely--" 
35 "Heimskringla"
(1967 song) 
stories 14 Garage jobs 
36 Kind of bread 16 Message at the 37 Englishdawn of 
dramatist Creation? 
Thomas 18 Daughter of 39 Butler of fiction Juan Carlos 
40 He's had a 19 Have coming Rocky career 
20 Number 41 Cries from Krupp corresponding 42 Produce hippie to an exponent attire 
22 Milne baby 43 Grocery carriers 23 Patient's 45 Hackberry's program cousin 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
BOTHIJ I HADISK I M AURA ADELA ANNO BRINGMEAUNICORN  
ASONE.CEOANT S N E A Kllll HI GHERUP GERARD  
I SR.V I SOR OBOE  
TEEN.EWOLF 
IRAE SENOR.UFO  
T E T H E R R E P A R T E E ~I XES ESE  

U MA ff"l:i L A I E L A T E
REL~CTANTDRAGON 
GALSIAVOIRICORD ELSA LENNY EGOS 

PERHt>.PS. BUT YOUR 50>\ 5EEI"\5 SMt..LLI5H. 
t>.NO YOUR REPORTING LINE. BRU51-\E5 f..GAINST MY BOX. 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Olivia Brown, Steven Sm~al, Clare Booth Luce, David HalbL·rslilm 
DEAR EUGENIA I w," born on April )(), 1~4/ol, at 5:3() a.m. I am sup­po""d to haw a g'"nd trine this year. Can vou tl'ilme when? 
-Anxious AriL's 
DEAR ANXIOUS ARIES: Happy Birthday. You were born with a grand trine in the fire signs in your natal chart. However, you will be ex­periencing a grand trine in the air signs this year when transiting Jupiter trines your natal Neptune and Venus. This actually occurred once already in February and early March. It will touch you again in September and October of this year. This particular grand trine falls in an area of your chart that deals with partnerships, travel, communication, and getting people to help you achieve your goals. The one thing that I find with charts like yours is that there is a tendency to wait for things to come to you instead of go­ing after them. I believe that we only get out of life what we put in. You can sit back and I'm sure things will be OK. However, you can make an honest effort to excel in a positive manner and reach your highest po­tentiaL Please don't waste the good fortune that you were born with. 
ARIES (March 21-April 20): Go over the work vou've done and make sure you're totally pleased before you present it to your boss. 
TAURUS (April 21-May 21): Fol­low your gut-feeling regarding your business ventures. False information cs likely if you listen to idle chatter or
NO, I'M SURE THI5 
~OSSlp. 
GEMINI (May 22-June 21): Un­
MEANS I'l"\ YOUR 
,ertainty regarding your direction is 
NEW BOS5. 

SCOTT ADAMS 
~------------------~"~------------------~ 
------1$ 
\ 
46 High school subject 48 Odd place for a cradle 52 Board with a planchette 53 Overhears Satan tempt? 55 Words after 
"whether" 56 Ill temper 57 Spy in 1994 
headlines 58 Shaq's alma 
mater 59 Copycat 60 Fast time 
DOWN 
1 Common tater 2 Ballyhoo 3 Start of 
Hamlet's 
"Yorick" speech 4 Produced 5 Menudo's 
kudos 6 Heckle 
= 
~ 
u 
~ .. 
"' 
. ~ , 
II. 
24 Chiromancers 38 Cow catcher 48 Prefix with 7 One-time 
read them 39 Upset conference or connector 
commute
251nternet 42 Less verbose 
a Helper of 49Volume
messages 44 Winter pear
parable 26 Forbidden tree 46--Canals 50 Receptive9Childwho's decor? 47 Use a reverse 51 "Hey, you!"
six-foot-two 27 Trademarked stitch 54 Big shot10 Fit for Eden? 
items11 Seat of Washoe 29 Glazier's goopCounty Answers to any three clues in this puzzle30 Outpouring
14"--Weapon" 
are available by touch-tone phone:32 Solomon's
15 Droop 1-900-420-5656 (75¢ per minute).
mother17 Go on and on 
Annual subscriptions are available for the 21 Puts one within _best of Sunday crosswords from the last
33 Fleeting another 35 Factions 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Born Today: You'll have so many ideas and not enough time to follow 
----------~., 
through with all that you want to do this year. Set your priorities straight or vou will find the year ahead fntstrating and uneventful. 


0 
:::> 
..... 
0> 
DAN SULLIVAN YOUR HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 
likelv Look mto c,Hel'r dlOIL-t.'~ ,tnd ct1urSt-s lx•ing tlffered. 
CANCER (June 22-July 22): Don·t overspt..•nd in order to impres~ soml'­~ me who interest~ you. You may find voursl'lf in an uncomtortable ~ilua­iion 1f you have overloaded your platl' unintenti(mallv. 
LEO CJuly. 23-Aug. 23): You nM\ say S<>mething that you'll regret later You wtll get behind if you sp<"nJ to" much time debating senseless 1:-.--ues. 
VIRGO (Aug. 24-Sept. 221: You will be able to close bustne" dcab successfully. Don't let vour p<'Nmal problems interfere with your profes· sional responsibilities. 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 23): Yuu can dear up important legalities and sign contracts today. Property invest­ments, insurance, taxes or inheritann· should bring you financial gains. 
SCORPIO (Oct. 24-Nov. 22): It you're willing to cut loose you will find yourself in the midst of an excit­ing encounter. You can mix business with pleasure if you travel or get in­volved in group activities. 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 23-Dec. 21): Be Cureful not to let someone at work make you look bad. Your diplomatic nature will aid you in straightening out unsavory situations. 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 20): Get involved in competitive sports with clients. They will appreciate your determination and playful na· ture. 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 21-Feb. 18): You may jump from the frying pan into the fire if you make a move today. Someone may not be thinking oi your best interests. 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): You need an outlet so get into ph,·sical endeavors that will help you relieve vour tension. Entertainment will be pleasing if it is of an energetic nature. 

~roject 
ace to 
ace 

~eeiJi~ t~e lace~ o/aia~ aJia ~irJ 
lafortvtV\e ballroom 
today 11-4p aV\d 7-9p tomorrow 10am-12pm~ 

SPORTS 
page 24 
• MENS lACROSSE 
Irish put the bite on Bulldogs, 13-10 
By ERIK KUSHTO Sporrs Writer 
Notre Dame games are leg­endary for exciting and dra­matic endings. And though the "luck of the Irish" has evaded the football team the last few seasons, the men's lacrosse team has had no trouble pick­ing up the slack. 
Such was the case when they carried their 5-1 record and No. 8 ranking to "Moose" Krause Field versus nine­teenth-ranked Butler Wednesday night. The Irish defeated the Bulldogs 13-10. 
The two previous games for the lacrosse team ended in one­point Irish victories. It appeared that the Irish would avoid such a close contest. as they led by as much as 11-5 with less than three minutes 
• fOOTBALL 
Little things of big importance 
By BRIAN REINTHALER Assistant Sporrs Editor 
Field position, extra points, kick returns, and punt cover­age are just a fraction of the terms associated with the most overlooked aspect of football. That's right, the special teams. 
If someone is not kicking a game-winning field goal from 46 yards out or returning a kickoff 98 yards for a touch­down, special teams players get very little attention or cred­it for the time they put in. 
If the kickoff coverage man beats his blocker and contains the return man, the All­American linebacker gets the opportunity to make the mo­mentum-shifting sack for a safety. If the kicker is four for four on extra points, the quar­terback's fourth-quarter inter­ception becomes a small blem­ish on an otherwise stellar per­formance. If the linemen refuse to allow pressure on their punter, the defense is never forced to start a series with their backs against the wall. 
Actually, it is these players who are often responsible for winning or losing games on plays that are far from spec­tacular -at least from the fan's point of view. It is the work that these players do that 
see SPECIAL I page 18 

-
The Observer will be profiling a different position onthe Notre Dame football team each day this week. 
left in the third quarter. The Bulldogs came storming back -coming within a point of the home team with 3:22 left in the game. 
The Irish were able to re­group, however, with goals by Jimmy Keenan and Chris Dusseau in the waning minutes of the match to seal the win. 
"We are playing well for about 45 minutes a game," said Irish coach Kevin Corrigan. "We are hurting the other 15 minutes. We are giving the other team too many chances. We just can't seem to hold our concentration, and we just give it away." 
But, when the Irish do main­tain their concentration, their play is spectacular. Notre Dame had a 4-0 run over the Bulldogs early in the game and 
see LACROSSE I page 22 

D Monday e'" Linebackers D Tuesday e;o SecondaryD Wednesday e;, Defensive Line
B ThursdayD Friday  ft.,, Special Teams e,.. Wide Receivers  
The Observer/ Melissa Weber  

Thursday, April 10, 1997 
. . The Observer/Brandon Candura 
Jun1or J1mmy Keenan scored a goal in the final minutes of yesterday's match to seal the win for the Irish. 
IBookstore xxv••l 
Several search for recipe to success 
Teams look to dorms, varsity players, friends 
By KATHLEEN LOPEZ Assistant Sports Editor 
Some players arc in search of a recipe. They are looking for the right mixture of peo­ple to ensure them a spot in the finals of Bookstore Basketball XXI. 
The successful recipe might include members of varsity teams, roommates, or recruits from Stepan Courts. 
While some seek out the perfect ingredients on the Stepan Courts, some recruit from their own room. 
Sophomore Ryan Caufield started up a team with his fellow roommates Brett Smith and Tony Kairis. "I am play­ing with some of the guys that I live with," said Caufield. "Then we went to our interhall basketball team and asked Shane (McGonegle) and Mike {Phalen) to fill in the other spots." 
Caufield wasn't the only one who recruited from the interhall squads. Sophomore Kristin Yudt talked her fellow teammates into forming a team. "It is a great tradition and we really wanted to be a part of it," said Yudt. "We all played Walsh interhall basketball together. Since we never won a game in inter-hall. we thought we might have a chance against the guys in Bookstore." 
Players such as Jeff Kloska might know just the right mix for perfection, as he was a member of last year's win­ning team, Dos Kloskas. This year. he is one of the mem­bers of the top selected team, Corby's. Sophomore Tim Ritter made the switch from Bring Out The Gimp to join Kloska on Corby's. "They just asked me to play and so I did," said Ritter. 
Another top contender. Downtown Assasins, looked to past rosters to compile tal­ent from previous teams. 
"Donut (Tom Daignault) and I played on the Untouchables with Jarious Jackson and Hobbv Brown," said sophomore Je~ry Barca. "We touched base with B. Brown and he said his room­mate, Raki Nelson. was look­ing for some other players. We decided to play with him." 
Wh'ile team selection is a meticulous process for most, others took a random approach to finding the per­fect combination. 
"I went up to four guys and asked them if they wanted to play," said sophomore Jeff Wawok. 
Junior Eric Anderson stum­bled upon his team after a workout. "I met my team­mates after a tough outing at the Rock (Rockne Memorial). 
see BOOKSTORE I page 20 

vs. Drake,
vs. IUP, 
April 11, 3:30 p.m. 
Today, 5 p.m. 

• Softball gears up for Michigan 
SPOit1s 
vs. Michigan, 
see page 22 
at Michigan, 
April 15, 3:45 p.m. 
ATA 
Today 
• Bookstore photo coverage 
Track and Field, 
Women's at St. Joseph's,
GLANCE< 
see page 14
at Sea Ray Relays
April 13 
April11-12 




