
Tuesday, April29, 1997 • Vol. XXX No. 134 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
• CAMPUS liFE COUNCil 

O'Hara declines to give clause revision timetable 
By MATTHEW LOUGHRAN timeline." give consideration to this issue, Assistant News Editor O'Hara, along with four other indicative of how sensitive it University officials, are serving is." 
At the second meeting of the on a subcommittee that is eval­"She seems to describe it as a new Campus Life Council, uating the ramifications of two-step process," said Father members expressed concern revising the clause to include George Rozum, rector of and disappointment about vice sexual orientation. The officers' AIumni Hall. "[The officers' president of Student Affairs group will consider the sub­subcommittee was not] given a Patricia O'Hara's response to committee's recommendations timeline by the full officers' its letter regarding the non-dis­before rendering a decision. group. Now we send them this crimination clause. O'Hara responded to the let­request for the timeline and 
"It's really a disappoint­ter by writing back a letter of they weren't ready for it. When ment," said Patrick Coyle, her own, in which she said, "It the committee has finished Dillon Hall senator. "From would be premature for me to with their work, they will give what I can see of the letter, it is try to estimate how much time it over to the rest of the group." a major cop-out." the full Officers' Group will feel "To have a report that the 
"We are only asking for a is necessary to consider this committee is close to the end of timeline," agreed Matt Szabo, matter and reach a decision." its task, I find that encourag­Morrissey Hall senator. "We Some members of the council ing, not discouraging," added are all very aware of the com­defended O'Hara's point of assistant vice president for plicated legal issues involved in view and asked the council to Residence Life William Kirk. this situation. I don't think that consider handling the situation Ava Preacher, associate dean this [response] sets a very good delicately. of the College of Arts and precedent." "Students deserve careful Letters, recounted for the coun­
"I would like an answer," consideration of the situation cil how the issue was brought
The Observer/Michelle Keefe 

Coyle added. "I would like an more than they deserve a time­to the attention of the officers
T
he decision from the Office of Student Affairs not to provide a timetable for revision of the non-discrimination clause sparked a answer as to when I will get an line," said Father David of the University in the first discussion among members over the best course of action. In her answer. We deserve to know Scheidler, rector of Saint place. "The Faculty Senate statement, O'Hara said that an estimate would be premature at this what is going on. [Professor Edward's Hall. "Out of respect passed a resolution in April of 
time. O'Hara] owes the students a for the students they need to 
see CLC I page 4 
• NEWS ANALYSIS 

Censorship ruling will be close 
By DAVID FREDDOSO believes that the court's current attitude and prior News Writer precedents seem to fall on the government's side. 
"In the oral argument, the court showed itself to 
By the time it adjourns this July, the Supreme be quite sensitive to the problem," he observed. Court is expected to rule on the constitutionality of "There are several precedents that suggest that the Federal the govern­Communications 
ment can pre­Decency Act of vent minors 1995. The bill. from viewing which prohibits pornography." anyone from He cited two knowingly trans­previous cases mitting indecent in particular, or obscene com­in which the munications to court decided recipients under the age of 18, has been chal­in favor of the government's power to control the lenged by the American Library Association and content of publicly available transmissions. the ACLU. "The court ruled in Ginsberg vs. New York, that 
One of the primary targets of the bill is sexually the sale of sex magazines could be criminalized explicit material currently available on the when the sale was to a minor." he said. He added Internet. The bill's supporters have argued that it that in another case, the Federal Communications will prevent children from viewing these materi­Commission vs. Pacifica, the court decided that als. and that it will also help to stop child pornog­"the FCC could regulate indecent communications raphy from being distributed over the Internet. on the radio when there was access to the radio 
Douglas Kmiec, a professor at Notre Dame's by minors." 
Law School. said that the decision would most "So there are two strong instances of prece­
likely be a very close one, but that "there is a rea­dent," he went on. "The government clearly has 

sonably good chance that the statute will survive an interest in preventing minors from viewing Speakers at the "Celebrating a Leadership Community" event at 
constitutional scrutiny." 

Saint Mary's College touched on the qualities that becoming a see INTERNETI page 4 leader brings out in individuals. See story page 3
Kmiec, who is an expert in constitutional law, 




Grant funds pursuit of human rights law studies 
By LAURA PETELLE violations. "The program draws dedicated young and administers the internship part of the News Writer The center recently received a human rights lawyers from around the program. Some of the graduates of the $150,000 grant from the prestigious John world. Thereafter we try to help them by program now work in such diverse areas 
All law students spend three grueling D. and Catherine T. MacArthur placing them in internship positions as the Yugoslav Tribunal, the Rwanda years of their life in pursuit of a degree in where they can gain practical experience Tribunal, the London School of law. Those who make it through then go 
and make contacts in the field and, in Economics, Tartu State University in on to earn their masters of law, or LL.M. some cases, to get started in an interna­Estonia, the South African constitutional degree in an additional year of intense tional legal career," said Garth Meintjes, court and the International Committee of study. the associate director of the center. the Red Cross. 
But there is one even more exclusive "These internships have, in a significant The war crimes tribunals where the group who choose to follow this laborious way, helped these people to get positions interns funded by the MacArthur educational sequence up by diving head­and get started on international legal Foundation will work have minimal bud­first into the uncharted territory of inter­careers," he added. gets to carry out what amounts to a mas­
own statutes.'
national law. The clerk program, wrote Justice sive mandate from the United Nations, 
The Notre Dame Law School's Center Rodney Dixon Louise Arbour, a prosecutor at ICTY, investigating and prosecuting the various for Civil and Human Rights has been run­"continues to be a most successful initia­criminals. ning a program for just over .two years in Foundation so that the center can contin­tive, which has certainly benefited my Rodney Dixon, a graduate of the pro­which young lawyers study international ue to provide law clerks to the prosecu­office and the young lawyers who have gram who is now employed at ICTY in human rights to earn their LL.M. degree tor's office of the International Criminal been fortunate enough to be funded by The Hague in The Netherlands, explained and then participate in internships, usual­Tribunal for the Former Yugoslavia, or [The MacArthur Foundation]." ly overseas, that deal with human rights ICTY. Notre Dame matches the funds donated see LAW I page 4 
-------~-~~------------------~ ---~ -----~-~-----------~----------------------­
page 2 
• fNSIDE COLUMN 

The saving grace offriends 
Yesterday's tribute to leadership at Saint Mary's College fostered the opportunity for per­

sonal reflection. As I lis­tened to the words of Dr. Linda Timm and senior Karen Murphy at the lead­ership luncheon, I became filled with pride, as I often do. to be a part of such an incredible college commu­nity. 
I was so appreciative and thankful for the environment which the faculty, administration 
Allison Koenig Assisranr News Ediror 
and support staff create for us students. As I look forward to my senior year, I rejoiced once again at my decision to attend Saint Mary's. 
Yesterday I also rejoiced at my decision to stay at Saint Mary's. I spent the personal reflec­tion time offered at both the luncheon and the Mass contemplating some of the more tumultuous times of my college experience. The second semester of last year came to mind, when I badly wanted to give in to negative life forces and follow a road that led anywhere but to Saint Mary's. 
I know now that I was fighting a monster named depression. I was in a reactionary spin from a number of events in my personal life that had shaken my reality. 
The truth was, and is, that there is simply no better school for me than Saint Mary's. I just couldn't see that at the time. 
Fortunately, a few people did see. Ironically, they hail from the east side of U.S. 31. 
As I basked in the glow of leadership and womanhood at Saint Mary's yesterday, I real­ized that I would not be here had it not been for a group of incredibly thoughtful, supportive Notre Dame men. When I hit rock bottom last year, this team of friendly giants came to my rescue. 
They were hardly knights in shining armor; they practiced the antics of the Stooges and Star Wars characters instead. Whatever they resem­bled or represented, it worked. I highly recom­mend the type of "therapy" they used to help me back on my feet: National Geographic's baboon mating week, endless euchre games, fights over whose room was the dirtiest, dart tournaments, tales of where their badly frayed carpet "Oscar" had traveled to, and arguments about the evil nature of women. 
It was that semester that I learned to tolerate Huddle pizza and appreciate a really good belch. It was that semester that I learned to worry about my ranking as a euchre player more than my personal crises. It was that semester that I found companionship at any hour of the day, especially when the knots in my stomach were too weighty to fall asleep with. 
From my male compatriots, I learned of my talent in argumentation (even if it was only over who controlled the remote), and the healing power oflaughter. I was encouraged to realize my strong feminist inclinations. I was encour­aged, albeit silently, to return to Saint Mary's the following fall. 
All this, from a group of men. My message is this: learn from your friends of the opposite sex. They have much more to offer than drunken hookups or bad dance memories. They can actually be your friends. They can even be your therapists. 
To the group of men who pulled me through that tough semester, I thank you. 
To the incredible members of the Saint Mary's community who make the College what it is, I thank you. You have all reminded me that this education is a magnificent gift. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
•  TODAY's STAFF  
News Bridger O'Connor Sarah Hilrz Sports Kevin Robinson Graphics Perer Cilella Viewpoint Dan Cichalski  Production Chris Uharr Bridger O'Connor Lab Tech Kevin Dalum Accent Ashleigh Thompson Mary Berh Ellis  

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday 

exccpr during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of 
the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
The Observer • INSIDE Tuesday, April 29, 1997 
• WORlD AT A GLANCE 

Supreme court says tobacco billboards OK 
WASHINGTON 

The Supreme Court turned lifi)I:J,acco in the U.S. away arguments Monday that SignificanteventsintheU.S. history restricting cigarette billboards otregulationsovertobacco: 
violates free speech, a fresh ~ 1964Surgeongeneral
b 1 h b · d · ··. releases reports that M 1994 1 8 W 
ow to t e to acco m ustry , conclude smoking causes do':rumentsn~~~:\o~~~~o&ex~~i~~~~~n even as President Clinton's own lungcancer. discoveredsmoking'srisksbeforethe advertising crackdown heads ~;;~,:;~~~·~~~;eon :fi!IJ' surgeongenerai30yearsago. toward the court. general'swarningson W"'....l_ August1995Presiden!Ciinton 
· d cigarette packs. ~ announces FDA plans to regulate
The move came as them us-tobaccoforminors. try prepared to resume talks ~ 1971 Broadcast 
. advertising for March 20,1997 Liggett concludes with anti-smoking lawyers in a cigarettesisbanned. Jandmarksettlementwithstatesthat b · d t e d t b insulates the company from tobacco
l O n a war 0 n O aCCO. 1980Surgeongeneralreports Jitigationinretumforadmitting
The justices, without com-smokingismajorthreattowomen's areaddictiveandprovidingevidence ment, denied review of health. implicatesothertobaccocompanies. B It' • b b 'Jlb d d 1988 Surgeon general reports "'*'· April 16, 1997 Attorney
a 1more S an on 1 oar a s nicotine is an addictive drug. ~41!;,. general and top executives for cigarettes and alcoholic bev-199osmokingisbanned %lih'9 fromPhilipMorrisandRJR erages. onalldomesticairline \l: Nabiscotalkabouta 
fl" hi J r · h settlement that could cost up
The 4th U.s. Cl'rcul·t Court of 19 s aslngslx ours to$300bl"ill'on 
or Jess. · Appeals had ruled that the ban Aprll1994 Executives of the seven Apru 25, 1997 A federal judge rules for was constitutional -SO the largestU.S.tobaccocompaniesswear thefirsttimethatthegovernmentcan
' f I in congressional testimony that regulate tobacco as a drug. But theSupreme Court s re usa to over-nicotineisn'taddictiveandtheydeny rulingalsoallowstobaccoindustryto turn that decision means "every allegat1ons they mampulate n1cot1ne continue advertising. 
review the Food and Drug Administration's pending tobacco crackdown. 
A federal judge in North Carolina last week left the consti­tutionality of the FDA rules unan­
swered when he ruled that the agency could regulate tobacco but that it didn't have authority to 
. • d
restnct c1garette a vertising under a particular section of fed-era! law. 
Th 4th C · · t · R · l d
e lrCUI 1n IC 1m on • 
Va., could hear appeals filed bycigarette makers and Clinton offi­· I b f II
Cla s Y a · Refusing to intercede in Baltimore "at the very least sug­gests• the Supi·e1ne C(Jlll'l would 
lind tho FDA's regulations of ciga­rette advertising constitutional,"
d h
sai Jo n Banzhaf of the anti-tobacco group Action on Smoking

other city in the 4th Circuit can '-Je_v_els_in_c_:ig'--ar_et_te_s.________________J and Health. 
adopt these rules. They're legal," said Susan Low Bloch, a Georgetown University professor of constitutional law. An even more important decision lies ahead: how the same appeals court and later the Supreme Court will 
The Supreme Court's denial "comports with our aim of curbing the advertising of cigarettes targeted toward children," added senior White House adviser Rahm Emanuel. 
Arafat urges peace Jewels return to Russian Embassy 
NABLUS, West Bank 
Yasser Arafat's spokesman urged the United States on Monday to help restart the peace process and Palestinians vowed to avenge the death of a high school student killed by Israeli soldiers. President Clinton "has promised Arafat to make an initiative and we are still waiting for it," spokesman Nabil Abourdeineh said. 


Abourdeineh spoke in the autonomous West Bank town of Nablus, where Arafat's effort to present a united Palestinian front fizzled when the militant groups llamas and Islamic Jihad boycotted a planned "reconciliation" meeting. Arafat met privately with 30 Palestinian faction leaders inside the Nablus police headquarters. Hamas attended the first such meeting two months ago. But Jamal Mamsour, a Hamas spokesman in Nablus, said the boycott was to protest Arafat's recent detention of dozens of group members. Addressing the Islamic groups, Abourdeineh said: "Boycotting this meeting will not serve our interests." 
Mutation may lead to Alzheimer's 
WASHINGTON 
A defect in the genes that drive energy metabolism in 
cells may play a role in Alzheimer's disease, new labora­
tory studies have found. Researchers say they have dis­
covered a mutation in the mitochondria DNA of cells in 
Alzheimer's patients that may lead to a rise of a destruc­
tive chemical, called oxygen free radicals, in the brain. 
Dr. W. Davis Parker of the University of Virginia and 
senior author of a study to be published Tuesday in the 
Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences said the 
findings suggest a link between the way brain cells 
process energy and Alzheimer's disease. Zaven 
Khachaturian, a scientist with the Alzheimer's 
Association, said the new finding "is a potentially very 
important new piece of fundamental information" that 
could lead to diagnostic tests for the disease and a new 
understanding of how it develops. Alzheimer's is a disor­
der that kills brain cells and causes a gradual decline in 
memory, a change in personality and behavior, and, 
eventually, death. 
WASHINGTON 

The czars' jewels went back to the Russian Embassy on Monday after a two-week standoff had kept them locked in a vault at the Corcoran Gallery of Art. There was still no word whether the jewels of the Romanov dynasty would continue on to Houston, the next stop in a planned seven-city American tour, or return to Russia. Officials at the Houston Museum of Fine Arts at one point Monday afternoon said they had heard the dispute was over and that the jewels would come to Texas. But director Peter Marzio later backed off that statement, saying he was unsure of the exhibit's status. In Washington, Mikhail Gusman of the Russian committee that organized the tour, said: "There is no agreement yet on whether the exhibit will go to Houston or beyond." Added David C. Levy, the Corcoran's director: "I have a signed agree­ment from the American Russian Cultural Cooperation Foundation and from representatives of the Russian gov­ernment that they both agree to the transportation of these jewels today back to the embassy. "J have no assur· ances beyond that," Levy said.Lawyers for the two sides remained in meetings trying to work out a deal. 
Fifth-grade marriage ends in court 
ALBUQUERQUE. N.M. 

A playground "marriage" that led to a playground "divorce" has landed two fifth-graders in domestic violence court. In an unusual use of New Mexico's Family Violence Protection Act -usually invoked in cases of domestic vio­lence -the family of 11-year-old Katie Rose Sawyer of Farmington filed a complaint against Cody Finch, 10, and his two teen-age brothers. The April 21 complaint alleges that Cody punched Katie Rose, that he made a threatening call to her and that her home was vandalized over the past two months. Cody's attorney argued the case belonged in children's court, but a special commissioner called for under the Family Violence Protection Act ruled the youngsters had a "continuing personal relationship" as defined by the law. A hearing is set for next Monday to determine whether domestic violence occurred and whether the court should issue a restraining order. ''I'm a little appalled by the idea of fifth-graders having a playground marriage and a play­ground divorce and ending up in domestic violence court," Cody's attorney, Haymond Archambeau, said Monday. 
•INDIANA WEATHER • NATIONAl WEATHER 
The AccuWeather® forecast for noon, Tuesday, April 29.
5 Day South Bend Forcast 

AccuWeather®forecast for daytime conditions and high lemperatures 

L 
L··' 
Tuesday ~ 70 48 Wedne~day (f 67 47 
l 
11
Thursday ~ ' ~':62' 44 
;;.::::=:­
Friday\ ~ "''67···49 
............,......a.....a...~ 
''''' 
COLD WARM STATIONARY 
0 1997 AccuWeather, Inc.
·' 
Pressure 
' 

c;; 64~';i 38 1~
Saturday ~ 



HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY
l "A'''' /'·,.) .... • 
~,..:--:~\.. ~. v ~" 
Vis Associated Press 


4,~,~-P-~8 (f  ~ u  
Showers  T-slorms  Rain  Flurries  Snow  Ice  Sunny  Pl. Cloudy  Cloudy  
Via Associated Press GraphicsNet  
Atlanta 80 57 Dallas 81 63 New Orlean 84 63 Baltimore 75 43 Denver 58 35 New York 70 50 Boston 63 46 Los Angeles 7 4 58 Philadelphra 7 4 49 Chicago 65 48 Mraroi 86 70 Phoentx 91 66 Columbus 75 51 Mmneapolis 48 44 St. Louis 67 55 



-------~-­
page 3 

Tuesday, April 29, 1997 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS 
-----~-~---~---....---­
----~-­

SMC recognizes leadership in day-long celebration 
By SARAH CORKREAN strong characters and values Karen Murphy, a humanistic Saint Mary's News Editor life long learning," said Linda studies and religious studies 
____:_________ Timm, vice president for major and current member of The Saint Mary's community Student Affairs. "Although the Student Academic Council set aside a day to honor stu­leaders this year have faced and senior class board, shared dents who pioneer change and many difficult decisions, it is her thoughts on how the Saint leadership at the College, cul­now time to kick back, smile Mary's community depends on 
minating in the commissioning and reflect how each one of us and encourages opportunities of next year's student leaders. have contributed leadership for leadership. The Leadership Development qualities in our classes, with "From student government to 
Committee sponsored friends and our impact within campus ministry, there i!? a "CP-Iebrating a Leadership the community." wide variety [of opportunities] Community" Monday, which The day offered opportunities to lead at Saint Mary's," consisted of reflection, celebra­for students, faculty, staff and Murphy said. "In those leader­tion, learning and planning. administration to explore the ship positions are wonderful The College mission state­ways Saint Mary's fosters a Saint Mary's women who are 
ment indicates the importance leadership community. Student outgoing, caring, intelligent of "preparing students for roles leaders of the current year and interesting." in leadership and action." were honored, helping leaders Aside from Murphy's role in Leaders at Saint Mary's fulfill of the future shape their plans student government, her lead­
the mission statement through and encouraging all members ership extends to her academic academic, social, cultural, spir­of the College community to concentration. Only the second itual, athletic and intellectual recognize their gifts for leader­woman in five years to double 
for future students in designing smaller day-to-day tasks of 
activities. ship and action. major in women's studies and 
and creating their own majors. opening doors for others and
"Saint Mary's encourages In a brief address, senior religious studies, Murphy feels 
Murphy noted that leadership simply asking how someone is
she is a student who is pioneer­
is not just sitting on an execu­doing.
ing change and paving a path 
tive board, but is also the Leadership for Murphy has 
Save time and 1noney \Vith our convenient location just 
north of campus. \Ve'Il even pay you a "nifty" fifty dollars;:: to open your Direct Deposit Checlring Account \Vith us. Cool ... 
• 
No-FEE CHECKING 

• 
No MINIMUM BALANCE 

• 
No PER-CHECK CHARGE 

• 
No MONTHLY SERVICE CHARGE 


~ QJ,i-\Vith Direct Deposit of your entire paycheck, you are eligible for our Golden Shamrock Club \vith these additional benefits, and more . 
• 
FREE GOLDEN S"IAMROCK CLUB CHECKS 

• 
FREE TRAVELER'S CHECKS (MAXIMUM OF $2,000) 

• 
DISCOUNTS (1 /4%) ON QUALIFIED CONSUMER LOANS 


(219) 239-6611 or (800) 522-6611 
World-Wide Web: http://www.ndfcu.org • E-Mail: ndfcu@ skyenet.net 
NOTRE_DAME A Better Choice to Make
FEDERAL CREDIT UNION 
Independent ol the University 
*This offer is extended exclusively to qualified Faculty and full time Employees of the University of Notre Dame, St. Mary's College and Holv Cross College. $50 will be credited to your account within 30 days of receipt of your first direct payroll deposit. Termination of this account prior to 12 'nonths of its opening, can require repayment of the $50. This offer ends no later than June 30,1997, and may be withdrawn sooner without notice. 



McKinley-Penn Self-Lock Storage-· 
l 0386 McKinley -Osceola 
Summer Storage 
lOxlO lOxlS 10x20 Fenced I Lighted I Security 
Call 679-4744 
not always been a glorifying experience. From her experi­ence in the Environment Club of implementing recycling on campus, acting as a liaison between the dining hall and students and filling in on the executive board last year when the elected board resigned,
receives $8 

towards Murphy realized that little -if 
t/w meal anything -can be accom­
/,is or /wr plished working alone in a 
c/wice. leadership position. 
--~ ~ ------~---~ ----~-----------~-­
page 4 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS Tuesday, April 29, 1997 
'This university is known for approaching the issue." our deliberateness in going The council then decided that

CLC Internet Law 
toward a decision," Kirk argued. Griffin would address another 
"This is a very complex issue, letter to O'Hara expressing the
continued from page 1 continued from page1 continued from page 1 
and there are some issues that displeasure of the council with Roger Mullins in Human we can talk about that we have her response and asking for a However, Matthew Apple, a The Hague in The Netherlands, talked about every year. This is timetable as soon as one could graduate student whose web explained that work in the new
Resources. 

"When we came back in not one of those issues. Things be put together. page was pulled earlier this year and largely unregulated field September, Father [Richard] do not change overnight here, In other CLC news: for containing pornographic of international law is McBrien, who chairs the Faculty but it is in the University's best •The council decided to set up materials, doubted the bill's effec­"tremendously exciting." Senate, asked what happened to interest to put together a posi­an agenda meeting for a tiveness. "We're really creating an it," she continued. "Roger didn't tion on this issue. But it is so Saturday or Sunday before the "[The supporters of the bill] do entirely new body of jurispru­know, but he found it and sent it complex, the Catholic Church first meeting of next year, on not know anything about the dence,"said Dixon. along to the officers' group. They hasn't even addressed this issue. Sept. 1. "That will give people Internet at all," he contended. "If we're successful, the tri­finally formed a committee in "So many people equate this more time to think about it, and "They think that banning it is like bunal will point to the need for December or January. McBrien University with the Catholic we will be pretty busy for all the banning a book at school. But if a permanent international stayed on top of it, and kept get­Church," he continued. "That is other meetings with a particular they try to outlaw that stuff here, criminal court with its own 
erroneous. But in the same way item," Gritlin said. "But it is very people can go to Europe and fmd statutes -one which canting different information. 
"They said originally that they as the Church, big changes don't important that we set an agenda it. The problem is that they can­prosecute individuals any­would be able to present it on happen overnight; they take a before the beginning of the not enforce it. where in the world for human­February 21. That didn't hap­very long time. There may be a year." "In my opinion," he said, "if you itarian and human rights pen,'' Preacher added. "Then perception that Student Affairs is •They also addressed a resolu­choose to give your kid free laws," he added. they said they would present it dragging its feet on this, but if tion passed by the Faculty access to the Internet, it's your "This experience gives our in March. It also didn't happen. we were to respond to all per­Senate at its April meeting, call­responsibility." graduates a unique opportuni­Now we are expecting to hear ceptions, [that in itselfl would be ing for the Academic Council to Kmiec stated that this may be ty to apply and enhance their from the April meeting. But we a full time job." demand a student bill of rights the very reason why many par­theoretical knowledge and to seem to be getting conflicting Kirk also complemented the be written into du Lac. The reso­ents cease to do so, and the deci­participate directly in the information as to what is going CLC on the quality of the discus­lution was deferred to the CLC sion of the court will likely have development of an innovative sion. "I think that it is not at all a by the Academic Council, but the its greatest effect on how and institution in international law
on." 
Most attending the meeting sign of weakness for the CLC to CLC decided to wait until next whether families decide to use enforcement," said the late did not see O'Hara's response as work with the administration year to tackle the issue. the Internet as an educational Father William Lewers, former 
a rejection. but merely as an and not against it. In the last "This is a much broader tool. director of the center. indication of how they should week, the Office of Student change than the one suggested 
Affairs has proven that we are before in this body," Kirk said.
proceed in further dealings with the Office of Student Affairs. 
not afraid of demonstrations or "It needs a much broader discus­
"With this letter we gave them speakers. And I think that this sion. There is nothing in the an opportunity to show that they kind of reasoned, thought revision process that, if the CLC are not dragging their feet, and through discussion is what is sees this as an important issue to they missed the opportunity," needed in understanding and be revised, we can still do it." 
said Matt Griffin, student body president and chair of the CLC. 
"We would probably like to keep a good, working relation­ship between the new CLC and Student Affairs," said Sister Sue Bruno, rectress of Pasquerilla West, asking that the council not send a resolution to O'Hara. "We want to start this year on a good note and keep the channels open. We are in no position to demand, we are in a position to work together. We have got to keep an open mind." 
OUTSTANDING PEOPLE. AMAZING RESULTS. 
Tal<eitfromWayne-solarandmentalenergyisn'ta.llyou'llneedtowinSunrayce'97. 
It takes the help of dedicated partners -including the EDS team. 
J0 
~, 
..... 
'~ 

to access our online vehicle aerodynamic analysis and superior design
days. l ,200 miles. Intense competition. And the only available software -free.
fuels are the power of mind and sun. So how can Sunrayce Then if you're interested in a winning career, race over to our
'97 hopeful' ga;n a w;nn;ng advantage? By tapp;ng ;nto the website at www.eds.com and check out the advanced technological
knowledge of Wayne Watson and the rest of the EDS team. opportunities at EDS, or mail, Fax or E-mail your resume to: EDS
A former champion himself, Wayne advises, "Know the capabilities Staffing, Dept. 72-6280 700 Tower Dr., 5th Floor, Troy, MI 48098.
and limitations of your vehicle. And your team. Then achieve your Fax: (800) 562-6241. E-mail: staffing@eds.com.
objectives by working together." Good luck to all Sunrayce '97 participants 
If you're interested in winning Sunrayce '97, check out the from the team at EDS.
official website at: www.sunrayce.com. You'll have the opportunity 
.... A more productive way of working 
EDS and the EDS logo are registered marks ofElectronic Data Systems Corporation. All trademarks are the property oftheir respective owners. EDS is an equal opportunity employer, mlf/d/v. 


Tuesday, April29, 1997 page 5 
•<i':;t''''''"''c'·' ·> •• • •• 

Poor participation trend
Sen1ors+ reverses in AnTostal '97
Tight budget.· 
By HEATHER COCKS 
News Editor 
After years of a mediocre turnout, AnTostal seems to have piqued student interest once again. 
Perfect weather combined with numerous outdoor events caused an increase in participa­tion and, according to commis­sioner Shannan Ball, a huge leap in enthusiasm. 
"Everyone I've talked to said they had a really fun time," she said. "Overall, I think it turned out really well." 
Ball faced the daunting task of rebuilding the festival's reputa­tion at a time when the Office of Student Activities closely moni­tored the popularity of each event. 
"AnTostal is on probation right now," Ball explained. "We're being scrutinized." She explained that the program came under review due to its

Happy Birthday to 
apparent lack of participants

the cutest, sweetest 
Please recycle 
and generally low student inter­est. Officials at Student Activities 

21 year 
chose to continue AnTostal on a


The Observer.

old we know! You 
probationary basis, something Ball saw as an opportunity to 


Campus View Apartments 
We are now taking applications for 

·furnished apartments -shuttle bus 
-central air -24 hour laundry
NEXT YEAR!! 

•Swimming pool/SPA •Tennis, volleyball, & basketball courts 
•FLEXIBLE LEASE PLANS 
Apartments Available for your selection 
For more information, call272·1441 
Summer leases Available 
forces office 

to buyloo 
Despite 't,h~ fa~'t that for the senior class • Chicago Cubs game about an·. than originally pta.nmm be able to attend the May14. 
The senior class purchased 95 tickets game, and sold them to for $10 each. The class council would have liked to have pur­chased more tickets, but the class budget was too tight. 
"We were given $5,000 at the budget meeting to plan senior week events. If you look at, say restructure. 
"Last year, they had to start all over again, that's the reason for probation," she said. "We had to build strongly upon that frame­work so that next year, the com­mittee can add the finishing touches to AnTostal." 
She cited as a key element in this year's festival the inclusion of a greater number of smaller events, in lieu of just a few larg­er-scale ones. Despite a chilly start to the week, the weather cooperated and Ball feels that students were even more encouraged to spend time out­side. 
"A lot of these events were the type of thing where you can just stop and play on your way back from class, and I think we got so many more people involved just by doing that," she stated. "One day, we gave out a total of 1,000 cotton candy sticks." 
In addition, Ball reported that over 400 people attended the O'Neil brothers' piano concert, and 150 runners in Hostile Tostal. 
"That was three times what we expected," she said. 
Bookstore Basketball, which began as an AnTostal event, and the Blue-Gold games were other campus distractions scheduled for the same week, but Ball believes they did not ultimately hurt student turnout. 
"We couldn't really fight it," she said, "so we made sure enough was going on that the games couldn't conflict with all of our plans." 
She remains optimistic about the future of AnTostal at Notre Dame, though she cited budget restrictions as an obstacle. 

ATLANTA Michael M Miller 
CHICAGO Sean P. Connolly Courtney B. Grounds Kelly A. Koski Christina Nichols Joseph J Nocera Karen E. Plas Peter J Rubinas Carla S. Sawyer Kimberly C. Schwaiger Thomas P. Sullivan 
COLUMBUS Terrence R. Kane 
DETROIT Matthew S. Bahns Erin K. O'Connor 
INDIANAPOLIS Lisa E. Bailey 
KANSAS CITY Randall J Wasinger 
MINNEAPOLIS Matthew J Hynes Brian A. Sill Matthew C. Wolsfeld 
Coopers & Lybrand L.L.P. Congratulates 
NOTRE DAME'S CLASS OF 1997 
And is proud to welcome the listed graduates who will bejoining our Firm. 
Coopers & Lybrand L.L.P. 

Coopers&Lybrand 
a professional services firm 

NEW YORK Ruper Aquila Christopher C. Caffarone Megan M Farrell Daniel G. Karosen Elizabeth C. Rabadan 
PARSIPPANY Kimberly M Tonto 
PHILADELPHIA James M Jiminez Gregory D. Wiercinski 
PITTSBURGH Kimberly A. Kogovsek Scott A. Afangene 
SAN FRANCISCO Meredith L. Mueller Andrew L. Nachman 
SAN JOSE Colleen M Crowley 
SEATTLE Kassio K. Shea 
TYSON'S CORNER Suzanne L. Castellani 
SMC plans to repeat institute 
By P. COLLEEN NUGENT News Writer 
Saint Mary's Campus Ministry will sponsor its sec­ond annual Institute for Spiritual Leadership August 18 and 19. 
The event will be held at 
Lakeside, Michigan, which is 
about 40 minutes from South 
Bend. Various faculty and 
staff members and several 
students plan to attend the 
retreat. 
Liz Riegel, the coordinator of Saint Mary's Campus Ministry, explained, "God calls all people to love God, love ourselves and to love other people." 
"How we are to do that is not so clearly stated," she continued. 
According to Riegel, those who feel that they are fully committed to their faith and the challenges that it brings to our world also·feel that they are being called to be leaders through sharing their faith with others. 
The Institute for Spiritual Leadership first began last year, with the assistance of a FIPSE grant. 
According to Riegel, this grant "is to encourage and educate spiritual leaders in the Saint Mary's College com­munity." 
Any student interested in registering for the Institute for Spiritual Leadership should call Saint Mary's Campus Ministry at 284-5391 by May 9. 
_" ___ ~-~~--------­

page 6 The Observer • NEWS Tuesday, April 29, 1997 



Evidence incriminates McVeigh 

•CANADA 

Red River waters surge through Manitoba towns 
By DAVID CRARY dikes or undermine them Associated Press Writer through erosion. Winds were gusting up to 35 mph. WINNIPEG, Manitoba The river's crest surged across 
High winds whipped up waves the U.S. border into Canada late on the huge lake created by Sunday. The dike at the floodwaters in southern Manitoba border town of Manitoba Monday, posing a new Emerson withstood the initial threat for evacuated farming surge, although water lapped towns that have become dike­less than 3 feet from the top. encircled islands. The river has created a lake 
Emergency officials said the 15 miles wide. Houses in the val­waves could push the Red ley have been overwhelmed by River's floodwaters over the the water. 
By MICHAEL FLEEMAN 
Associated Press Writer 
DENVER 

Timothy McVeigh had earplugs in his pocket, a loaded handgun in a shoulder holster and an envelope full of violent 
anti-govern­ment writ­ings when he was pulled over for a traffic viola­tion about 7 5 minutes after the 


0 kl ahoma McVeigh City bomb­ing, witnesses testified Monday. 
Among the papers stuffed in an envelope in his car was a page from the racist novel, "The Turner Diaries," with a passage about government bureaucrats: "We can still find them and kill them," according to an FBI agent who searched McVeigh's car. 
Prosecutors say the tale about an attack on FBI head­quarters was a blueprint for the Oklahoma City bombing. Another passage from the novel found in McVeigh's car read: "The real value of our attacks today lies in the psy­chological impact, not in the immediate casualties." 
The sealed envelope was 

labeled with the handwritten message "Obey the Constitution of the United States and we won't shoot you," and inside were also quo­tations from Samuel Adams and John Locke about the dan­gers of overzealous govern­ments, said FBI agent William Eppright III. 
The car was searched two days after it was impounded following McVeigh's arrest on gun violations unrelated to the bombing of federal building in Oklahoma City. The envelope was seen on the car seat at the time of McVeigh's arrest. 
Offering a detailed account of the chance arrest, Oklahoma Highway Patrol trooper Charles Hanger said McVeigh appeared relaxed, answering all ques­tions, complying with orders, chatting about guns and even offering an explanation of 
WJVDU qeeds'(j m¢tit froiffMa/l th 
an~,'reTC'qfF r~dio, t 
isideal'{ora techtzic w k1~ztJledg~!(of el fo to~tJ holfr~per z 
where he had just been. 

"He said he was in the process of moving to Arkansas and that he had taken a load of his belongings down there," Hanger said. 
Prosecutors contend McVeigh was fleeing the bombing when he was stopped, and have said explosives residue was found on the ear plugs, his clothing and the knife. 
A couple of days after the arrest, Hanger cleaned out the squad car used to transport McVeigh, and found a business card from a military supply store with a handwritten mes­sage, "Dave (TNT at $5 a stick) need more." 
Just after Hanger identified McVeigh in court as the man wearing a blue shirt, the defen­dant whispered something to one of his lawyers and exchanged smiles with her. 
• · '"' <<.... vali driver's license. 
Please apply at the WNDU Studios by May 5th. 

Save time and 1noney with our convenient location just north of campus. \Ve'll even pay you a "nifty" fifty dollars~:; to open your Direct Deposit Checking Account \Vith us. Cool ... 
• No-FEE CHECKING 
NCUA
• No MINIMUM BALANCE 
~ 

• 
No PER-CHECK CHARGE 

• 
No MoNTHLY SERVICE CHARGE 


~ {1J,J-With Direct Deposit of your entire paycheck, you are eligible for our Golden Shamrock Club with these add-itional benefits, and more . 
• FREE GOLDEN S~!AMROCK CLUB CHECKS 
• 
FREE TRAVELER'S CHECKS (MAXIMUM OF $2,000) 

• 
DISCOUNTS {1/4%) ON QUALIFIED CONSUMER LOANS 


(219) 239-6611 or (800) 522-6611 
World-Wide Web: http://www.ndfcu.org • E-Mail: ndfcu@skyenet.net 
NOTRE DAME A Better Choice to Make
FEDERAL CREDIT UNION 
Independent of the University 

*This offer is extended exclusively to qualified Faculty and full time Employees of the University of Notre Dame, St. Mary's College and Holy Cross College. $50 will be credited to your account within 30 days of receipt of your first direct payroll deposit. Termination of this account prior to 12 months of its opening, can require repayment of the $50. This offer ends no later than June 30,1997, and may be withdrawn sooner without notice. 


Tuesday, April 29, 1997 The Observer • NEWS page 7 
Air Force crash may remain 'inexplicable' 
By MICHELLE BOORSTEIN Associated Press Writer 
PHOENIX 

The Air Force has solved part of the mysterious disap­poarance of Capt. Craig Button, determining through a DNA match that he died when his A­I 0 Thunderbolt crashed into a snowy Colorado mountainside. 
But military officials said Monday that the force with which Bufton's warplane crashed may have obliterated clues as to why the 32-year-old pilot veered off from a routine training mission in southwest­ern Arizona. 
"There's a legitimate con­cern that we might never know what caused Capt. Button to fly north." said Capt. Leo Devine, a Pentagon spokesman. 
Button broke off from the training mission on April 2. The Air Force tracked the $9 million plane's northeasterly path into Colorado, where it was found. 
Button's parents learned Sunday that their son was 
killed in the crash. The military used DNA records and tissue specimens from the wreckage to positively identify the remains as Button's. 
"We are pretty much up on it all. We don't want to say any­thing at this time. Please understand," Richard Button said Monday in a phone inter­
view  from  his  home  in  
Massapequa, N.Y.  
"Craig  was  a  wonderful  

young man. This is an inexplic­able tragedy," said family friend John Conroy, who has been holding a daily vigil with his wife and Button's parents since the pilot disappeared. 
Now that the military knows where the A-10 and its pilot ended up, officials say they aren't certain if they'll ever know why it was there. The main problem is evidence. 
The Air Force retrieved two small pieces of the plane, including plastic-insulated tub­ing and wires and a section of metal, before officials post­poned the salvage operation until the snow melts. 
• RUSSIA I 



Bomb explodes in resort town 
on suspicion of planting thePolice suspect bomb, Zdanovich said. The RTR and NTV networks said the sus­Chechen fighters pects were two women of 
Chechen nationality. 
Associated Press 
"There are signs of possible 
involvement of Chechen terror­

MOSCOW ists," Alexander Zdanovich, a 
A bomb exploded Monday at a spokesman for Russia's Federal train station in southern Russia, Security Service, told the killing one person and wounding Interfax news agency. 
17. Authorities blamed Chechen President Boris Yeltsin, vaca­fighters, who claimed responsi-· h 
bility for a similar attack last tioning 150 miles away in Soc i week. on the Black Sea, condemned Tl · h. h h the bombing and imposed tight 
1

le exp osion, w IC ap-• security measures on the region, 
pen~d shortly before _7 p.m., ~eavily d~maged the tram dep?t m Pr~tigorsk, a resort m R~ss1a s Nort~ern Cauca~us, V1ktor ~oruzhn, deputy regiOn­a! premier, told the Interfax 
neEws a!5ency. t f th 

ar11er repor s rom e
.t S . d th 

Fe.d~raI Secun y erVIce an e 
Mm1stry for Emergency 
S·t t' 'd t d' d
1
. I ua IOns SaJ wo peop e Ie m the blast. 
. . .t.

Russmn news agencies, CI mg
· 1 th
ff. 1 1 t 

o ~Cia s a e scene, a. er revised the casualty toll, saymg four of the 17 wounded were
· · d · 
1

InJTure serwusty. d t . d wo suspec s were e ame 
•ZAIRE 
said his spokesman, Sergei Yastrzhembsky. 
The attack followed a bomb blast last week in the waiting room of a railway station in the southern town of Armavir which 
killed two people and w~unded 
· ht Th d · 1 d
mg . e eVIce was concea e 
in a piece of luggage. 
. · · 
Po1Ice said they were lookmg
for three men suspected of · 1 t · th t b b' d
mvo vemen m a om mg an 
· d th · d · t' d
Issue e1r escnp Ions an 
composite portraits. A maverick Chechen guerrilla lead s 1 a R d
er, a m n a uyev,claimed responsibility for the Armavir bombing, which he 


called "the beginning of a series of spot strikes throughout Russia, especially at railway sta­tions and military facilities," the ITAR-Tass news agency report, ed. 




Refugees emerge from forest 
By HRVOJE HRANJSKI Associated Press Writer 

BIARD, Zaire 
Thousands of Rwandan Hutu refugees emerged from hiding in the jungles of eastern Zaire on Monday, their hunger more powerful than their fear of the mobs that drove them from squalid camps a week ago. 
Aid workers estimated seeing 5,000-10,000 refugees, fright­ened, exhausted, and desperate for food, heading toward an 
GAIN A W 0 R L D 0 F EXPERIENCE" 
University Directories is seeking top-notch students to sell yellow page advertising for the University of Notre Dame campus telephone directory during the summer of 1997. 

This is a full-time summer job, open to freshmen, sophomores, juniors, seniors and graduate students who are not in summer school. 
All interns will be flown to Chapel Hill, NC to attend a week-long training seminar on the campus of The University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill. Transportation and accommodations will be provided during training. 


All interested students should contact Jung Yun at 1-800-743-5556 Ext. 157 for more information. 
Don't miss this unique opportunity to gain valuable sales and marketing experience required by many of today's top employers. Call today! 


UNIVERSITY DIRECTORIES 
88 McClamroch Circle • 
Hill, NC 27514 • 1-800-743-5556 

abandoned camp at Biaro, south of Kisangani. Until Monday, international officials could account for only a few hundred of the at least 80,000 missing refugees. 
U.N. workers worked to bring in tons of food for the Rwandans, while U.N. officials argued for the refugees' immediate airlift back to Rwanda -something Zaire's rebels have repeatedly blocked. 
"This is the only way. These people have to go home," said Filippo Grandi of the U.N. refugee agency. 
"If I could go only today," refugee Sosthene Ntirampaga said as he emerged from a week of hiding and wandered into the camp. 

Refugee camps housing about 80,000 Rwandans near Kisangani were found deserted last week, five days after rebels fighting to oust President Mobutu Sese Seko sealed the area to foreign aid workers and journalists. 
The refugees are among 1 mil­lion Rwandan Hutus who fled into Zaire to escape retaliation for the nation's 1994 genocide of a half-million Tutsis. Most have returned; the Rwandans who remained in central Zaire camps increasingly were at odds with local Zairians and rebels, many of them Zairian Tutsis. 
Last week, Zairian mobs allegedly attacked the camps with machetes, blaming the refugees for the murders of six villagers. The mobs killed hun­dreds, and rebels opened fire on at least one camp. the refugees say. 
"First the Zairians attacked us," said the refugee, Ntirampaga. "They looted food, medicines, everything ... Then we heard the gunshots and fled." 
The U.S. ambassador to the United Nations, Bill Richardson, flew to Zaire Monday to talk with Mobutu and rebel leaders. 


AND 
SKALCOHOLICS 
7 piece campus Ska band with horns with special guest 
SAWN EY 8 EAN E 
a Celtic Punk band from Canada Present a 
WEDNESDAY, APRIL 30TH LAST DAY OF CLASS PARTY 
Upper Level Rave/Techno Party Area's top Djs playing the best in house music 
21 AND OVER WITH ID's FIRST 25 LADIES BEFORE 11PM ADMilTED FREE A MULl-LEVEL LAST DAY OF CLASS PARTY 


VIEWPOINT
• 
page 8 Tuesday, April29, 1997 
THE OBSERVER 
NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1997-98 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Brad Prendergast Managing Editor Business Manager Jamie Heisler Tom Roland Assistant Momaging Editor 
Maureen Hurley News Editor............................Heather Cocks Advertising Manager.............................. Jed Peters Viewpoint Editor .: ...................Dan Cichalski Ad Design Manager..........,...............Wendy Klare Sports Editor .................................. Mike Day Production Manager......................... Mark DeBoy Accent Editor........................... Joey Crawford Systems Manager ....................... Michael Brouillet Saint Mary's Editor ........................ Lori Allen Controller............................................ Kyle Carlin Photo Editor ........................... Katie Krpener 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. It does nor necessarily reflect the policies of the administration ofeither institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion ofthe majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editor, News Ediwr, Viewpoint Editor, Sports Editor, Accent Ediror, Saint Mary's Edicor, Photo Edicor, and Associate News Edicor. Commentaries, lerrers and Inside Columns presenr the views of the amhors, and not neces­sarily those ofThe Observer. Viewpoim space is available ro all members of the Norre Dame/Saint Mary's community and co all readers. The free expression ofvarfing opinions through leners is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 
Editor-in-Chief  631-4542  Business Office  631-5313  
Managing EditorNiewpoint  631-4541  Advertising  63 I -6900/8840  
News/Photo  631-5323  Systems  631-8839  
Sports  631-4543  Office Manager  631-7471  
Accent/Saint Mary's  631-4540  Fax  631-6927  
Day Editor/Production  631-5303  Viewpoint E-Mail  Viewpoint. I @nd.edu  
General Information  631-7471  Ad E-Mail  observer@darwin.cc.nd.edu  


• AND IN THIS CORNER ... 
Our Lady of the Lake, hear my prayer 
The responsorial is, Our Lady, hear my prayer ... 
You have taught me that it is good and proper to place Tom Clancy's "Patriot Games" on a par with, or even on a pedestal above, such classics as Ralph Ellison's "Invisible Man," Kurt 
Matthew Apple 
Vonnegut's "Slaughterhouse Five," and Joseph Heller's "Catch-22." You have taught me that business and basketball are worth more than books and brains. You have taught me that you can't tell the teams without a program, and you can't be a person without a team. You have taught me that the only dialogue or debate possible is the verbal equiva­lent of a drive-by shooting. 
You have taught me that in this hier­archy of the self-proclaimed City of God, the theocracy allows no protest, no change, and turns a deaf ear to the cry of common sense, because of the divine wisdom of the church-anointed in loco parentis. You have taught me that it must surely be far worse to suf­fer and to gain on one's own terms, at one's own risk and under one's own power of conscience and intellectual prowess. You have taught me that you fear your children, because you know we are your future. 
You have taught me that better I should desire to remain a dull member of the masses, refusing to accept alter­native viewpoints of the world -refus­ing even to think for myself­demanding that my teachers lead by the hand and scold and reward and steer by pleasure and pain. You have taught me that on the other side of life's road the academic beast stomps on, likewise refusing alternative view­points, on the basis of lack of "evi­dence" and lack of "critical theory," denying true emotions and history's teachings of cultural qualities -both learned and inherited -in favor of plodding, flowery, effete word-worship, trite ostentatiousness and cleverly­witty word-play. 
You have taught me that there are students of philosophy, but there are no philosophers. You have taught me that life is a self-referential loop, and a never-ending inner circle of bureau­cracy, from which there can be no escape. You have taught me that origi­nality is sin; repetition, key. You have taught me disappointment. 
You have taught me that it is accept­able to abuse University electronic message privileges by sending hate-e­mails containing phrases such as "left­ist pinko commie," but it is entirely inappropriate to support basic human rights. You have taught me that only the truly virtuous remain anonymous. You have taught me that life is all extremes, all good or evil, all Christian or pagan, all liberal or conservative, and nothing in the middle can survive attacks from both sides of the polar­ized spectrum. 
You have taught me that unseen tra­dition is more important than the indi­vidual, that bricks are more deserving of dignity than a person, that what our fathers and grandfathers have done is more valuable than anything we or our grandchildren could ever hope to accomplish. You have taught me that a set of outdated, insular, patriarchal rules has more respect than a human soul. You have taught me that to live in the present, I must bury the past. 
You have taught me that men who wear earmuffs earn the epithet "fag­got." You have taught me that by wearing no gloves and no winter coat in below freezing weather conditions, I could have become a man. You have taught me that there is, indeed, a very thin line between bravery and sheer stupidity. 

You have taught me that if the Truth is Out There, then He is Dead. You have taught me that true charity involves savagery, and true generosity demands a spectacle of testosterone in reciprocation. You have taught me that Notre Dame is the navel on the beer­bloated belly of America. You have become an encouragement to Irish­American Catholics everywhere to remain stereotyped as they always have been. You have taught ideals, but I have found only their apes. 
You have showed me all that is intol­erant in religion, all that is hypocritical in creed, all that is divisive in race, all that is harmful in society, and all that is wrong with America. You have showed me those to fear and those to praise, those to revile and those who emulate. You have showed me that it is not enough to have hard words, I must also have a hard soul. You have tried to negate me, and you have failed. You have shown me more of myself than I ever could have alone. 
For these teachings and others unmentioned, I pray, 
Thanks be to Notre Dame. Amen. 
Matthew Apple will graduate this May with a master's offine arts degree in creative writing. He will be moving to Boston where he can find some actu­al culture and a decent cup of coffee within walking distance. 

• IJOONESBURY 
/rI Mt!Y-I J!ET NA/1/T 70 AJJJJMY GCXJI?tu/5H~ / f{tJR& ... 
GARRY TRUDEAU 
ff/VAS A S"tCliO~Pte.A9/JR& 70 JOIN 7H/StfKJNIJiiRFUl-caJ­P£8/N/(//i/?toCK-!JO!H~ 
ANJJ ON 7H& 5/MO/.CASTCW 
7H&II< tutil3 ~IT&l 
• fiUOTE OF THE DAY 
"We have the religion of inequality." 
-Matthew Arnold 


I wanted to begin this column by acknowledging the letter of Father Patrick J. Sullivan, the chair of the Student Affairs Committee (April 23), responding to my March 18 column crit­icizing Student Affairs. Given the factual clarifications of Sullivan's letter, I should say that I was too hasty in ascribing a motive of censorship to SAC in its discussions regarding Right Reason. But while his letter exonerates 

lrfan Khawaja 
SAC of censorship, it does leave some issues hanging. "The issue" which gave rise to the discussion of Right Reason, he tells us, "was fairness since several students and faculty alleged that the university administration had unfairly given to Right Reason what is denied to GLND/SMC." As a supporter of GLND/SMC and a critic of Right Reason, I actually find this a remarkably strange proposition on the part of these stu­dents and faculty. 
Suppose that you thought, as I do, that the University's treatment of GLND/SMC was unfair, in part because GLND/SMC ought to be able to schedule meetings and publicize its programs in University facilities and publications. Why would you think it "unfair" that Right Reason was able to do these things, as opposed to thinking that it was unfair that GLND/SMC wasn't? It is as if supporters of GLND/SMC were to argue: "Because gays and lesbians are treated badly by the administration, and heterosexuals aren't, we demand that heterosexuals be treated just as badly as we are." No one has ventured to offer such a preposterous suggestion as regards heterosexuals; apparently such suggestions are only tolerable when it comes to unpopular campus 
• lETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
publications. Why anyone should have thought it legitimate in the name of "fairness" to bring up what was on Right Reason's web pages in an SAC meeting at all still remains a mystery to me, which I doubt could be resolved by "regular reading of the Faculty Senate Journal." But as this is my last column, and I am indeed a "very busy graduate student," I happily leave this issue to others to resolve. 
This brings me to the topic du jour, GLND/SMC itself. For the record, I am with them all the way. Not to toot my own horn -oh hell, it's my last column, why not? -but I think I was one of the first people to challenge the University's policy in print (Feb. 6, 1995). Having stated this up front, I want to pose an ungrappled-with taboo question involved in the debate with GLND/SMC: What is the moral status of homosexu­ality as a sexual orientation? A defense of GLND/SMC's rights that omits a dis­cussion of this issue will necessarily be incomplete-indeed, not just incom­plete, but missing a keystone in its structure. I want to go out on a limb and say: The only way to offer a proper defense of GLND/SMC is to argue that homosexuality is morally on par with heterosexuality. If homosexuality is "abnormal" in any sense, the abnormal­ity is something akin to the abnormality of being left-handed-marginally sub­optimal (perhaps), but only significantly so in a society that discriminates against those with the propensity. I offer this claim as a challenge not only to conservative Catholics, but to liberal ones who agree with the Church's teaching. As an atheist, I am free to reject its teaching root and branch. My question is: Why don't you? 
There are, I suspect, two competing views of homosexuality on this campus. The first I call the Decadence of Rome Model; the second I call the Victimized Minority Model. The Decadence of Rome Model holds that because homo­sexuality is an objective disorder, its expression in any overtly sexual form must involve sexual perversity. In its extreme form, this leads to the sugges­tion that any meeting of gays/lesbians is bound to result in an orgiastic extrava­ganza of Satyricon-like debauchery. (Readers of Charles Rice's columns will recognize this view.) In its more moder­ate form, it leads to the University's present policies, which consist in a tim­orous set of apologies for holding views of the extreme form. 

The question to be asked of this view is: What is its rational basis? The basis given is that the natural function of reproduction is procreation, only hetero­sexuals can procreate, hence homosexu­al sexual relations are counter-teleolog­ical. The argument depends for its soundness on the first premise. What is its basis? The answer is that it doesn't have one, because every argument for it begs the question, and evinces a basic misunderstanding of the form of teleo­logical explanations in the Aristotelian tradition (from which the argument purports to derive its support). 
(1) 
The Aristotelian argument is that there is such a thing as the natural function of a human being, and this sets the identity of all subordinate functions, like that of the sexual organs. 

(2) 
The natural function of a human being is not reproduction; it is that agent's own flourishing. 

(3) 
Sexual pleasure in a committed relationship is part of a rational agent's flourishing. 

(
4) As Andrew Sullivan notes in his book "Almost Normal" -and as anyone who actually knows any gays/lesbians could easily attest-loving, committed relationships are possible in a homosex­ual context. 

(5) 
Hence such relationships are per­missible on an Aristotelian conception of ethics. 


For a respectably Aristotelian defense of (3), I suggest that one look at Mortimer Adler, "The Time of Our Lives," ch. 18 n.9. For further discus­sion of points relevant to (3), see Mark Jordan's "The Invention of Sodomy." 
This argument underwrites the Victimized Minority Model of homosexu­ality: Gays and lesbians in our society really are a victimized minority in just the way that racial minorities and women have been. Notice that even if we were to discover evidence that homosexual relationships were some­how systematically suboptimal by the standards of psychological health we apply to heterosexual relationships, it would still be incumbent on a researcher to exhaust all explanations for this suboptimality by determining whether it resulted from social stigma or lack of opportunity. 
The issue here is exactly parallel to someone's discovering "evidence" for the genetic inferiority of blacks, women, Jews. It is also parallel to the easy assumption that has been made in the past to the effect that women are both mentally and physically "inferior" to men. The supposed athletic inferiority of women is actually a good example in this context. It may be true that the best male triathlete will always be better than the best female triathlete as a result of some genetic constraints on our natures. But the fact that there are competitive female triathletes -and men who cannot compete in triathlons at all -is sufficient to demonstrate the silliness of the female-as-athletically­inferior argument. It proves that the genetic potentialities of women allow for much-higher-that-average athletic ability. 
The same applies, mutatis mutandis, to arguments about the inherent inferi­ority of homosexual romantic relation­ships. At this point in history, no one can exclude the possibility that some homosexual couples can have more ful­filling romantic relationships than many heterosexual couples. Indeed, this cau­tious claim is a ridiculous understate­ment. 
This is just a sample of the sorts of arguments that might be made on behalf of the normality of homosexuali­ty. There are many more, but they can­not be rehearsed in the space of a newspaper column. In any case, until they are answered, let us for God's sake hear no more of the "abnormality" of homosexuality. Enough is enough. 
Irfan Khawaja is a doctoral student in philosophy. His column appears every other Tuesday . 

----~----------~ 

VIEWPOINT
Tuesday, April29, 1997 page 9 
• Fmsr PRINCIPLES 
Whose normality? Which genetic personalities? 
A sophisticated discussion of homosexuality 
Dear Editor: 
I wanted to write and congratulate you on your superb April 22 edition, especially Matt Apple's column. He is such a clever writer. At first I thought he had worked himself into a rabid frenzy, but then I realized that the piece was much more sophisticated than that. The most delightful quote of the entire essay is, in my opinion, found in the first column, where Apple writes: "What certain people condemn, they do so out of fear and out of ignorance. They condemn what they do not understand; they condemn in their insecurity what they fear would happen if they did understand. They condemn because they refuse to believe that others exist who do not share the subjective ordering they have forced upon the world." 
One assumes at first that Apple is criticizing the Catholic Church and others who agree that homosexual behavior is morally wrong, but a closer reading reveals that he is criticizing those who criticize the Church! The remainder of the essay turns out to be a parody of those who do not understand the Catholic position on homosexual behavior, who forget that Jesus said the greatest commandment was to love God with all your heart, mind, soul and strength, and who claim to love others when they have no concern at all for the well­being of another person's soul. 
Instead, the voice used in the latter three-fourths of the column is one that itself condemns " ... out of fear and ignorance ... " what it does not understand. Matt's ironic voice condemns in its insecurity the Catholic Church, afraid of what would happen if he did under­stand. He condemns because he refuses to believe that others (for example, Christians who hold to the historic faith) exist who do not share the subjective ordering they (for example, those who think that there really are no standards for sexual behavior) have forced upon the world. All in all, it is a thoroughly amusing caricature of those who hate the Church without understanding the Church. It is a joy to see Notre Dame turn out such creative writers. 
Again, congratulations on elevating the perennial discussion of sodomy to such a sophisticated level here at Notre Dame. I'm sure that many others appreciate the high standards that The Observer sets with its Viewpoint columnists. Keep up the good work. 
BRIAN BURCHETT Graduate Student in Government 





Intellectual dishonesty 
Dear Editor: 
In his recent article entitled "The consummate disgrace of ND and the AMA," Matthew Apple has done a disservice to himself and to all the members of the intellectual community at Notre Dame. No, I'm not referring to his personal diatribe against a well-respected faculty member or even to his zealous defense of homosexual rights on campus. After all, these are opinions and a public forum such as The Observer is a great opportunity for open debate and expressions of ideas. 
However, the mere fact that it is an open forum for the entire student body does not make it a fitting instrument for intellectual dishonesty. What am I referring to here? Mr. Apple attempts to disguise himself as an intellectual. He would gladly discuss Shakespeare without ever having read the Bard; he would jump for joy to talk about Darwin even if he did not know the first thing about evolution; he talks about Catholic doctrine although it is apparent that he does not know the first thing about it. And because he speaks as an "intellectual," we (the gullible public that we are) are asked to swallow this pretentiousness as statements of fact. 
To quote just a few of the many blatant "misstatements" that Mr. Apple would have us believe that the Catholic Church teaches as doctrine: 
• 
If you don't have children, "you cannot be Christian, and you cannot be saved." 

• 
Procreation "is the foundation of the universe." 


• "The most important and most cited commandment of the New Testament is Love thy Neighbor." 
I could go on but these are typical examples of which the article is full. 
The first two are patently incorrect and the third one reveals the fact that Mr. Apple is not even familiar with the Bible. In chapter 12 of Mark's Gospel, Jesus is asked which is the most impor­tant commandment. He replied, "You shall love the Lord you God with all your heart, with all your soul, with all your mind, and with all your strength." Love thy Neighbor is the second command­ment, at least according to Jesus, but not Mr. Apple. 
If Mr. Apple had made similar statements in an exam, he would have failed. The professor would have realized that Chaucer did not, in fact, write the Iliad and would not have given any points for such obvious errors. Unfortunately, we are not all professors and so Mr. Apple hopes to pull the wool over our eyes by intellectually ranting upon a subject which he knows nothing about. This dishonest approach to truth and open debate should not and cannot be tolerated in any forum, especially from a person claiming the title of "graduate student." 
For all those writing in the future, the intellectual community and all of Notre Dame would thank you if you made the effort to know something about the topic before you claim to state facts. If you want to talk about the Catholic Church, at least know what she really says and teach­es. As for Mr. Apple, he would be well advised to return to his roots and bite from the tree of knowledge before we hear from him again. 
WILLIAM L. ESSER IV Law Student 

~~--------------------··-~--­
-~-·-----~---­
VIEWPOINT
page 10 Tuesday, April 29, 1997 
• lEITERS TO THE EDITOR 
God's unconditional love of humankind, not their sins 
Dear Editor: 
In response to his April 22 column, I have the following to say to Matthew Apple: God loves you! He loves you, He loves me, and He loves every person with­out exception no matter what any one of us has done; in a word, His love is unconditional. As you wrote in your column, "All that is good, all that is love, all of the whole of the universe, whether it be called God, Allah, Buddha, Brahma, or what have you, this all-encompassing force binds the universe together, gives it shape, and gives it meaning." 
However, although God's love is absolutely unconditional, His acceptance is not. Sin, evil and wrong do exist and can influence us, the people God loves, unconditionally. When this happens, when we sin or fail to love we separate our­selves from God who, although never failing to love us, clearly cannot accept the things we do which are contrary to that which He is: Love. 
Thus, we might ask how one determines what is conformable and what is con­trary to God's love. What exactly is right and wrong? Is this a purely subjective matter? Is that and only that which we might feel to be right right or is there something more to it? 
I believe there is, in fact, something more, precisely because if, as you say, God is found in "all that is good, all that is love," it follows both that there are things contrary to goodness and love, and thus also that in these things, God is not found. In other words, it is conceivable that we may occasionally, through wrong actions, separate ourselves from God. Accordingly, if we wish to love God and thus also to do only what is right, it only makes sense to turn to God with our questions and listen to what He has to say. 
And where can we turn to hear what God has to say? We turn to the revelation God has communicated to us in His Word which, of course, is Christ. By following what the Word teaches us through Scripture and Tradition we demonstrate our love for God and therefore cooperate with what you aptly call the "all-encom­passing force [which] binds the universe together, gives it shape, and gives it meaning." 
Truly, God who is Love does give shape to a universe that would, as you say, otherwise make no sense. If you will allow me to make an analogy, God might be thought of as the Composer of the one great symphony of love that gives order and shape to the universe. As created beings it is our task and purpose to unite ourselves to this one great song of love as instruments within it. The more diverse the orchestration, the better the harmony and the more whole and com­plete the song. However, this diversity must be employed harmoniously. Only by playing in tune will we add to the song. Similarly, in life, only when we arc "in tune" with love will we cooperate with its desire to unify and harmonize. None of us is perfect, and all of us are called first to recognize the possibility of our own failure and then to examine the ways in which we do, in fact, fail. When we do this, we realize our failings as measured against the only standard which is not arbitrary: God. And, when we do this, we realize how much more we can love God and thus respond by changing our lives out of our love for Him. 
While it may be true that some members of the Church fail to love uncondition­ally in the way God does, we must not let this detract from what the Church has always taught, not as her own arbitrary opinion but as the Truth she received from Christ and continues to propagate regardless of the strengths or weakness­es of her members. And this Truth is the Eternal Word; Christ who, when fol­lowed, leads us to fullness of life in love in Him. Although you expressed an aver­sion to the use of mere human words as the basis for expressing truth, I never­theless cannot resist concluding with the final words of the opening section of the Catechism of the Catholic Church: 
"The sole concern of doctrine and its teaching must be directed to the love that never ends. Whether something is proposed for belief, for hope or for action, the love of our Lord must always be made accessible, so that anyone can see that all the works of perfect Christian virtue spring from love and have no other objective than to arrive at love" (No. 25). 
CHUCK WITSCHORIK 
Sophomore 
Old College 


Catholicism: Loving the sinner, objecting to the sin 
Dear Editor: I would like to address the controversy with respect to the non-discrimination clause: 
It has been unfortunate that law studies preclude persons, such as myself, from addressing their con­cerns which are at variance with the loud minority to which many of you in The Observer, Matt Szabo, GLND/SMC would proscribe themselves to. 
In your haste to act upon your passions you seem either indifferent, conscious or unaware of your com­plete disregard for allowing alternative opinions with regards to homosexuality to go unheeded without dis­dainful and unworthy misrepresentations. Yet, it can­not be said that the campus College Republicans, con­servatives, nor Catholics, in general, have had any semblance of courage and moral standing as to chal­lenge the sentiments of your fringe consortium of ide­ologies. 
First, to suggest that I and other like-minded Catholic doctrinaires disapprove of homosexual per­sons as persons fails to address the fundamental exception we take in our opposition to homosexual acts as opposed to homosexual persons. It is incredu­lous to the fact that while one may practice and agree with the principles of toleration it need not negate, nor necessitate that acceptance is in any way synony­mous with that of accepting this lifestyle. To be toler­ant, need not surrender their disapproval of any mat­ter of opinion since we are due by our freedom of association to express our conscientious objections where our moral concerns lead us, nor does it sug­gest that a conscious and bruteful force of aggression awaits to act upon such disapproval. 
Second, whereas our Holy See and doctrines of faith may adhere to the fact that homosexuality is, indeed, an "abomination," as scripture states, moreover, without reservation proclaiming where "man shall not lie with another man as with a woman," one can not in truth, suggest that such views are in any way at variance to the bold print in any nickel and dime Bible. True, as you might suggest, as Christians, we are held to a standard of loving one another as per­sons; however, it in no way undermines our obliga­tion to suggest that while we love the sinner, we may hate, disapprove, or object to -the sin. 
Third, with several ad-hoc committees receiving free advertising in The Observer, on a continual, if not daily, basis, notwithstanding scholarships, and even more recently, a gay publication, it belittles the truth to suggest that this University is without a forum for persons of such inclinations to address their concerns. When I read that the GLND and its counterpart at SMC had suggested that they are deserving of recognition as they are "a carefully researched" matter I cannot escape a smirk of humor of its bold intellectual affront to reasoning. What and where is this research you speak of? What are discus­sions of "sexual issues?" Does this allow free reign, being that we are all liberally-minded of course, to speak about masturbation, pedophilia, bestiality, or voyeurism? (Again, I say "love the sinner, hate the sin.") Of course, I am not presupposing any equilibri­um among these behaviors or acts, but rather, I am trying to explore to what depth of inquiry they are proposing. To limit would be to discriminate likewise on their part would it not? 
To be sure, I find it embarrassingly elitist to suggest that an issue pertaining solely to a genital act could be of such significance as that of deserving of our fac­ulty time, student monies and resources. You fail to point out that upon recognition every student, regard­less of their personal proclivities in choosing not to share in such ideologies, would be compelled to have their student tuition subsidizing a matter of such broad disagreement. It is fair to argue that it is, indeed, parallel to asking our students to fund an abortion clinic on campus. It's a matter of moral con­cern and, like it or not, we must all agree to disagree, but such arguments differ in their importance in mat­ters of compulsion. It is easy to recognize that signifi­cant disagreement remains with such practices, and we need not suggest that one is a better or worse per­son necessarily for these beliefs until they start to demand that we pay for their beliefs. Surely, no one would argue Mr. Szabo is any less of an individual for participating with the antics of his counterparts in the College Democrats, a group whose party allegiance would uphold fundamental social concerns which are at variance with the Catholic Church and its follow­ers, i.e. approving of subsidies on behalf of the geno­cide of the unborn. 
This is the issue of significance -whether we stand for the fundamental constitutional guarantee of free­dom of association. We choose who we associate with and what ideologies we associate with in a likewise manner. Call it discrimination. I call it one in the same as my personal inclination towards blonde, blue-eyed females; I selectively discriminate and I need not apologize for such inclinations. You call it discrimination; however, our founding fathers called such preferences of association a constitutional right. 
This brings me to an important and yet-to-be­addressed concern. Whereas you seek the qualifica­tion of University recognition, you do so, first and foremost, with the motive of fomenting the symbolic approval of a Catholic institution, as part of a broader effort by a vigilant homosexual lobby (which has yet to ever seek conciliation with a broader plank of solemn values held dear to the Faith, such as those pertaining to abortion, euthanasia, fetal tissue research, abstinence, monogamy, and the like) which I dare say lines your rally attendance from such points as far and indifferent to our student body as non-students generally are. It is an old tactic of the 60s to bus from Chicago, or where be it, in such groups and numbers, and with the objective of lining them up in front of a camera for an appearance of broad student support where little in reality may be. I know what I speak of; as a Californian, I have seen it in their parades, as men and women dally in sado­masochistic paraphernalia, literally exposing geni­talia in the streets and impromptu groin gyrations in front of community members forced in traffic jams to withstand this affront to civility so far and away from private bedrooms. In such moments, ponder how such Roman standards of an extinct empire could ever co-exist with Christian virtues. Surely, you can not suggest that "spheltching" organic materials with straws, "fisting," and rodents, and artificial manifes­tations with respect to the anal orifice could pertain to such sexual practices with any semblance of com­monalty to the Catholic, indeed, of the Christian faith in general? 
I would assume that my bluntness may be disset­tling to you. I would argue that your inability to address to these realities has, in fact, beguiled me. Why, you might ask? It is because you selectively pick matters of discussion that underlie basic realities that I am compelled to answer. Let us initiate a debate where otherwise tone has been lacking until now in this one-sided affair so limited to date to advocacy. Alternatively, for one to so even hint that they might disagree with these clements so indicative of homo­sexual practices, as opposed to the sufferance of their condition. allows you broad latitude in name-calling Catholics and this institution of Notre Dame that we hold so dear as being "homophobic." I might suggest that you look the word up before you make such broad generalizations, for the word is not about fear­ing one who is homosexual -for as a person, who acts in manners implicit of Christians of virtue, a per­son is as equal as any other. The issue, however, is simply with concern to accepting AND tolerating these acts as well as those persons which engage in them. I argue, however, that what you misrepresent is that the only issue to which myself, and those who believe likewise, is merely engagement in these activ­ities. The acts of homosexuality are immoral; the per­sonhood of homosexuals, abstinent from such inclina­tions, however, is not an inherent immorality but rather a virtuous one to which Christians should not impose their recriminations. 
To suggest, so broadly that to disapprove of homo­sexuals (again versus what is actually the homosexual acts) is to suggest that I or others would ever approve of free lance compulsions to abuse such individuals is contrary to the truth. To strike a blow against one person need not be qualified as to its lack of morality whether the person be gay or heterosexual, large or small, black or white. Such bullying tactics are objec­tively wrong. Bullying acts, however, are not indica­tive of any ideology as we can sec among your col­leagues when it comes to tarnishing vice president for Student Affairs Patricia O'Hara, our University administration in general, or our fundamental faith as Catholics. It is not about "hate" as you so failingly, and contemptuously, contend; but rather, it is about the dignity of humans and the dignity of our sexuality, as God so perfected, for us to enjoy and keep solace to as we express our love with our mates. Homosexual acts do not mate. We need not suggest that homosexuals can not love, for we as Christians can love humanity in one all-encompassing embrace; the amendment to such sentiments however, cannot escape the fact that we need not embrace the act. That, sir, is the only issue to contend with, and I await to see how we can disagree with such a funda­mental truth as that. 
As your colleagues and advertisements suggest, there have been and will continue to be private, self­financed means to continue their activities. It is truly that simple. I ask of you, please, do not force us, as Catholics, to subsidize an ideology we do not sub­scribe to, for to allow the University to do so is one and the same. 
L. DAVID MENDOZA First Year Law Student 





ACCE-NT 

WVFI Goes FM-Creafi({))n ({))f the §tlillJenf U ni({))n-Ncgitu® D©HTUl)® fcgcglt[b©J~~ [Bj®©Jit~ l®~©J~-Skalcoholiks -Snow, Snow, Snow-;4~e7fUtat 
-Final Four Action for NJW Women's Basketball-
McCarth 

ResNet-.. .. . . / nn~ •..•.... 
J ' ..\w~ ·' ·· • ?, · . •• i.. ,,'.· /~ 
-ND Women sSoccer 1n Natton SEAMUS HEANY'S P'OETRY R><:, Dl NG-
Completed Renovation of B,dnd f!la/1-Bob Davie at the Helm 
-TOM CLANCY DISILEI.J$xfONS AUDIENCES-Dave Matthews at Bridget's-"Sunset Beach"-Saint Patrick's Day-Macarena finally fades-30th Anniversary 
of The Observer-Good Luck, Class of '97! ' 

r---~~----------------------~~~-· 
page 12 The Observer • SPORTS Tuesday, April29, 1997 
• NBA PLAYOFFS 
Knicks advance with victory over Charlotte 
Associated Press 
CHARLOTTE, N.C. 
The New York Knicks are back on familiar ground. So are the Charlotte Hornets. 
The Knicks made more than 50 percent of their field goals for the third straight game as they completed a first-round sweep of the Hornets with a 104-95 victo­ry Monday night. 
Former Hornet Larry Johnson had 22 points to lead seven play­ers in double figures for New York, which advanced to the Eastern Conference semifinals for the sixth consecutive season. 
The Hornets have made the postseason three times in their nine-year history but have ad­vanced past the first round just once and have never made it past the conference semifinals. 
Glen Rice had 22 points for Charlotte, but just four of those came in the second half. Muggsy Bogues overcame hamstring problems to add a career-playoff high 19 points for the Hornets, who had won four in a row against the Knicks in Charlotte. 

Allan Houston had 20 points for the Knicks, who also got 16 apiece from John Starks and Patrick Ewing and 10 each from Charles Oakley, Chris Childs and Buck Williams. 
The Hornets, whose last lead was 26-25 in the first quarter, tied it twice in the fourth, the last time at 81-81 on a layup by Ricky Pierce with 9:43 remain­ing. 
Williams scored the next four points to start a 9-0 run by the Knicks. Starks finished it with a 3-pointer and layup to put New York up 90-81 at the 6:53 mark. 
The Hornets got no closer than four the rest of the way. Johnson, who hit nine of 12 from the field, turned away Charlotte's last surge with a 3­pointer that made it 100-93 with 46 seconds left. 
Bogues made his presence felt immediately, leading a pressure defense and an uptempo offense that helped the Hornets race to a 20-12 lead. Charlotte forced four turnovers in the run and con­verted them into nine points. 
The Hornets were up 24-23 when Bogues went to the bench to get treatment on his ham­string with 4:30 left in the quar­ter. One second later, Oakley's layup on an inbounds play gave the Knicks their first lead. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. ro 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. ro 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Cenrer. 

Classifieds Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
PART TIME CUSTOMER  SUMMER RENTALS  88 Honda Accord, LX, air, Am/Fm  J  U  N  0  R  S !!!  
NOTICES  RELATIONS Positions available evenings  AVAILABLE HOUSES CLOSE TO CAMPUS ­ cassette, great condition, $4400. 219-273-3061  Need Graduation Tickets Desperately. Please help!  U  SUBMIT PRINTED COPY  
4-9 Mon-Fri or 10-6:30 on week­ WILL TAKE MULTIPLE STU­ Brian--287-4876  OF RESUME AND DISK  
J  U  N  0  R  S  ends from April through  DENTS­ 82 VW Pop-Up camper, great con­ Thank You  N  TO CAREER & PLACE­ 
August/September. Our busy call  LOW SUMMER RATES­ dition. sleeps 4. kitchen. $4,700.  MENT SERVICES FOR  
U  SUBMIT PRINTED COPY  center is looking for candidates with  UTILITIES INCLUDED, WASH­ 219-273-3061  RESUME BOOKS NOW!  
OF RESUME AND DISK  excellent phone skills and a desire  ERS/DRYERS,  Do you have an extra GRADUA­ 
N  TO CAREER & PLACE­ to satisfy our customers.  ALARM SYSTEMS  COMPUTERS  TION TICKET(S)? Will pay well!!  0  DEADLINE: BEFORE YOU  
MENT SERVICES FOR  Dependability an absolute must.  AVAILABLE JUNE 1  486DX 33 $400., 486DX 66 $500.,  Please call Paige at X4011  LEAVE CAMPUS IN MAY.  
RESUME BOOKS NOW!  Starting pay is $8.00 per hour,  OR SOONER.  Pentium 120Mhz. 16 EDO, 1.08  R  
$9.00 per hour on weekends. Apply  CALL 674-2571 MARK KRAMER,  GB, BX CDD. 33.6 Modem  NEED GRADUATION TICKETS.  
0  DEADLINE: BEFORE YOU  at Qualex Inc., a wholly owned sub­ DOMUS PROPERTIES  $950.00, Kantek 271-2573. Also  WILL PAY$$$.  s  
LEAVE CAMPUS IN MAY.  sidiary of Eastman Kodak. 921  build to order, trade.  ETHAN 4-1659.  
R  Louise St., South Bend, IN 46615.  3-4 BDRM HOUSE.  
We support a drug free workplace.  AVAIL AUG.  Cable T.V. descrambler.  I NEED GRADUATION TIX!I  FRESHMEN!!  
s  EOE  2 FULL BATHS, APPL. FURN.  Descrambles all premium  WILL PAY BIG$$!! X2369  JOIN THE 1998 SOPHOMORE  
ATIACH. 2-CAR GARAGE & OFF­ channels including  LITERARY FESTIVAL COMMIT­ 
IT'S BACK!  Family seeks loving, responsible,  STREET PARKING.  "Pay-Per View". Works in South  I really need graduation tickets so  TEE! Meet fellow sophomores(to  
The Keenan Hall Charity  fun person to help care for 2 chil­ 683-6591.  Bend. Call: 277-3899  my family can be in attendance. Will  be), bring world famous poets to  
Golf Scramble  dren while we move. Approx. 5/15  pay$. If you think you can help,  campus, and have a blast doing it!  
Thursday, May 1st; 8:00am.  thru 6/10; 20-30 hours/wk. $6 per  FURNISHED ROOM NEAR CAM­ PowerMac 7100/66 with memory  and you aren't a scalping-minded  Applications available now and next  
Shotgun start. 4 person team-$10  hr. References and own transporta­ PUS, AIR, KITCHEN, PRIVATE  upgrade, Res Net capabilities;  profiteer, please call Ethan, 4-1659.  week at the SUB office, 201 LaFun.  
per player  tion needed.  ENTRANCE. UTILITIES PAID.  Laserwriter; and 15" monitor for  Encourage your friends to apply'  
PRIZES  Sue 233-6657.  272-0615.  sale. $900 firm for a entire setup.  
1st, 2nd, 3rd; Longest drive, closest  Call Kevin x4077  NEED 2 GRADUATION TIXS  
to pin  ADVERTISING SALES POSI­ TURTLE CREEK TOWNHOUSE  for my Irish relatives!!  Want to get better use out of your  
TIONS  looking to sublet from 6-1 to 8­ Men's Trek mountain bike.  Call KATHRYN at 273-4486  mountain bike? Join NIMBA, the  
Caribbean/Mexico $250 RT  University Directories is seeking  20. Willing to negotiate price.  Excellent condition.  Northern Indiana Mountain Bike  
Europe $199 OW  students to sell yellow page adver­ CALL 634-0547  $200 or best offer.  Association. Meet other cool moun­ 
& Domestic Destinations Cheap!  tising for the University of Notre  Call Kevin @ 257-0653.  I need 1 graduation ticket.  tain bikers. get bike shop discounts.  
IF YOU CAN BEAT THESE  Dame campus telephone directory  Staying in S.B. for the summer?  Call Sean x2088  learn of the many local trails, help  
PRICES START YOUR OWN  during the summer of 1997. Weekly  RENT OUR COLLEGE PARK  Need Furniture? For sale­ open new trails, go on group rides  
DAMN AIRLINE!  pay + bonus structure. Training pro­ APT!! Call 284-4347 for details.  bed,couches, lamp, etc. Diana 271­ NEEDED: 1 graduation ticket.  and camping excursions--even go  
Air-Tech Ltd. 212/219-7000  gram. Excellent advertising sales,  2947  Call Dave at X1238.  to local races. Se an area bike  
info@ aerotech.com  marketing, PR experience. Call  Efficiency apartment, semi-fur­ shop for an application & sign up  
http://campus.net/aerotech  Jung Yun at 1-800-743-5556 Ext.  nished, quiet location near Notre  88 Honda CRX Si.  I need one graduation ticket!!  today. Questions? E-mail ndquak­ 
157.  Dame. $325/month including utili­ V. good condition inside & out.  $$ WILL PAY$$  er@aol.com or stolz.4@nd.edu.  
Looking for a room mate for the  ties except electric. Phone  Must sell. $3,000 offer.  Please contact Joe at 288-1567  
summer at an OC apartment.  SELLING A BIKE FOR $30?  (219)631-6072/273-1751 .  
Close to campus. Call Josh @ 4­3923.  I WANT IT you forgot to put your number  Working in CHICAGO this summer?  27 inch T.V. Cheap.  PERSONAL  It's sad, but true: Wednesday is The Observer's last day. That means  
ILOST & FOUND I  in the ad. Call me Beth 4951  Need a place to live? Need one female roommate for townhouse in Lincoln Park.  Furniture For Sale. Call: 277-3899  COLOR COPIES ON CAMPUS ! COLOR COPIES ON CAMPUS  you have just one day left to: tell her you love her, scrounge up graduation tickets for your grand­ 
Call Kelly @ X4633  COLOR COPIES ON CAMPUS !  mama, and frustrate the campus  
FOUND: One nice watch  Summer babysitter needed:  Four Cubs tickets, 6th row!!  The highest quality color copies  with personal jokes that noone else  
By the Law Library  1-2 days a week, 2-6pm  LARGE 2 BR HOME.  For the May 15th game  are now available at  gets. Come to 3rd floor LaFortune  
To claim, call Vince x3815  2 children ages 7 & 9  10 MIN FROM ND.  Call Sarah or Karin at 243-9034  THE COPY SHOP  and get your Classified in by 3 p.m.  
Must have own transportation  FRIG., STOVE, GARAGE, BASE­ LaFortune Student Center  TODAY for Wednesday's paper.  
LOST:  Please call 277-5786  MENT, DECK, FENCED YARD,  SALE! Beds. Couches, chairs, and  Phone 631-COPY  
silver lacrosse stick bracelet  LAUNDRY.  more. Call 243-9390.  
If found please call Colleen @  1312 S. 30TH ST. S.B.  Family Needs Graduation  PRINT FROM DISK  
273-1130  SUMMER WORK  LEASE. $550.00/MO. + DEPOSIT.  Moving off? Single bed, desk with  Tickets-Please Help!  PRINT FROM DISK  
$10.25 to start  AVAILABLE IN AUGUST  shelves for sale.  Cheap!  Christian 273-6967  PRINT FROM DISK  
LOST: KEYS in the area between Stepan center and  Full and part time openings. No experience necesary. All majors.  233-5462  Brian@ 243-9405  ••••••••••••·..····················Tons  Very high-quality full-color output is now available at THE COPY SHOP  
North Quad. Please call  Scholarships and internships avail­ Hey! Sublease by 1 bdrm at  FURNITURE-FUTON $80,  of Furniture!  in the LaFortune Student Center.  
X3097. Thanks!  abe. Flexible hours. Call office  Campus View for the summer. 1 or  RECLINER $25, 273-8673  ...Really, Really Cheap  Bring in your computer disk to print  
PLEASE HELP ME!  nearest your summer location for information and details.  2 people. Andrew x3652  '84 Chrysler LeBaron  Couches...Chairs... Dressers.. .  your files. We support PowerPoint. Photoshop, Illustrator, Pagemaker,  
I CAN'T SEE .... I  SOUTH BEND  219-282-2357  BED & BREAKFAST: Football week-ends. Private  82,000 miles and in good shape. $1000 obo #243-9118  Tables... Beds ... Bookcases .. . Lamps...Kitchen Stuft...and  and many many more types of files. It only costs a $1 plus the regular  
LOST MY GLASSES!  FORTWAYNE NORTH INDY  219-471-6113 317-578-0432  home 2 miles from stadium. Private baths. 272-9471.  1985 Mazda 626  some! We can even deliver! Call287-4876  color copy price for the first ten files, then just the regular color  
WHERE AM I? Brown Case: Brooks Brothers  SOUTH INDY MUNCIE KOKOMO LAFAYETIE  317-783-3575 765-289-7251 765-454-8921 765-474-3612  BULLA RD. 3 BDRM. 4 BLOCKS FROM CAMPUS. 97/98 YEAR.272-6306  Good Condition 80,000 miles $2100 Must Sell Call Geoff 232-9944  THE COPY SHOP LaFortune Student Center  copy price for over ten files. We can print directly onto overhead transparencies too! PRINT FROM DISK  
MERRILLVILLE  219-769-2352  Dependable 1987 Buick Century.  EXTENDED FINALS HOURS  PRINT FROM DISK  
REWARD IF FOUND: PLEASE CALL KELLY .... 243-9403  KALAMAZOO ST, JOE MI.  616-323-7800 616-983-5129  1,2 & 3 BDRM HOMES NEAR CAMPUS. SUMMER OR 97/98  $1000 OBO. Kathy @ 1-5437 or 287-6604.  Thur. 5/1: 7:30 am-Midnight Fri. 5/2: 7:30 am-Midnight  PRINT FROM DISK  
LOST: A gold necklace & heart charm with a sapphire stone and small diamond; lost 4/15 on campus. Reward for return. Call Lisa x2688. WANTED Family seeks loving, responsible, fun person to help care for 2 chil­dren while we move. Approx. 5/15 thru 6/10; 20-30 hours/wk. $6 per hr. References and own transporta­tion needed. Sue 233-6657 NOTRE DAME FOOTBALL MEMO­RABILIA WANTED TICKET STUBS PROGRAMS JERSEYS CASH  YEAR. GILLIS PROPERTIES 272­....___f__O__R__RE_N__T_---JI I'"' FOR SALE Near Campus Homes for 97-98 FOR SALE: 232-2595 NEW 27" TV, 2 ENTERTAINMENT UNITS, 4 COUCHES! CALL 5 Bdrms. in private home. Near CARLA AT 243-9282! campus. Safe neighborhood. Use of all facilities. 225/mo. 232-2794 '81 OLDS CUTLASS, Paul. 4-DR, 1-0WNER, NEW MOTOR. CALL 273-2241 . Two ND grads ('95) are looking for !@#@$%%"%"&%&"$%#$@# one or two others (M or F) to share a HUGE 4 bdrm apt in Chicago for APARTMENT SALE the summer. Call 773/695-2545 for info. CALL JULIE@ 273-4486  SEIZED CARS from $175. Porsches, Cadillacs, Chevys, BMW's, Corvettes. Also Jeeps, 4WD's. Your area. Toll Free 1-800-218-9000 Ext. A-2013 CRAZY DOUG'S My prices are insane! Nice FUTON for sale but the rest is real cheap. e.g. Couch; Desk; Lounge Chair 243-9224 Entertainment Center for sale. $50 OBO. Good condition. Call Katie 243-9172 TICKETS  Sat. 5/3: 9:00 am-Midnight Sun. 5/4: 9:00am-Midnight Mon. 5/5: 7:30 am-Midnight Tue. 5/6: 7:30 am-Midnight Wed. 5/7: 7:30 am-Midnight Thur. 5/8: 7:30 am-Midnight Fri. 5/9: 7:30am-7:00pm Sat. 5/10: Summer Store Hours PROFESSIONAL SUMMER STOR­AGE. Collegiate Student Storage offers On Campus and Off Campus Pick up and Delivery, Boxes, Insurance, Tape and Packing Materials Included. Call Now to Reserve Your Space at BOO 3 STORE 9 (800 378-6739). NEED GRADUATION TICKETS! CALL JENNY AT 243-9282  Chuck, How are ya? Played cards lately? Hug-n-kiss is ready to get down --too cold, too cold. Stop! Relive the moment. Pickin' up some good vibrations. How long has it been... since you had a hard time in the back of the bus? Your behind is still big, though. Remember to shock it, but forget that girl back home. Love Always, The Bad Influence, Bambi, Lace, Your Bi"#% and his Woman. and The Girl Who Can't Get A Date MEMORIES OF NO!! GET YOUR COPY OF THE FOUR FOOD GROUPS BOOK  
PAID 2773097 Available -Part-time Retail Sales Clerk Pandora's Books 808 Howard -Just off of Notre Dame Ave. Call 233-2342 1 OAM-5Pm Needed: Nanny. Nice little girls. Nice house. Nice neighborhood. 273-3010.  3 BDRM HOUSE 814 N. ST. LOUIS. AVAIL SUMMER & FALL '97. CALL 234-1440. NICE HOMES NORTH OF ND FOR NEXT SCHOOL YEAR 277-3097 POTATO HOUSE 8 BEDROOM FOR NEXT SCHOOL YEAR 277-3097  ! @ $%#$%&"" &$#$@ $#@ &%$ !@$%#$"&%""%$"#$@$%" APARTMENT SALE CALL SARAH OR KERIN @ 243-9034 !@$%#%"&"$%#$@%$%"&%  •••••.,..............***•••••********* NEED GRADUATION TICKETS! WILL PAY GOOD$$$$$$$$$$! PLEASE CALL BEN: 277-3055 *********************************** Need Grad. tix. for family. Call Janine 243-1382 I need 2 x-tra grad tix!!! Will pay, call Karen x4588  SOUND TECHS NEEDED!!!! Student Activities is accepting applications for Sound Techs for 97-98 academic year. Applications available in 315 LaFortune. I don't know what I would live for if there were no such thing as Very Very Strawberry Milkshakes. Bless you Steak n Shake!  AT THE LAFORTUNE INFO DESK AND THE BOOKSTORE! BEFORE YOU GO! A final shout out to my posse: good luck on finals and have a kickin' summer. Keep on chillin' like villains. See you next spring C-breeze and K-dawg. Peace. -C-note  


In the fall, the Irish will look for Allen Rossum to provide leadership both on and off the field. Coaches are hoping that his game-breaking speed can lead the Irish to a national championship. 
Rossu01 
continued from page 20 
"I feel much more comfort­able," said Rossum. "At first, when I went on offense every time I got in, I got those butter­flies and I felt like I had to make the big play. But now I'm just relaxing and I feel like I do on defense." 
Several concerns about Rossum 's added duties on of­fense are whether he would have any problems balancing offense and defense along with the fear of him getting fatigued. But he has some experience playing iron man football, and he knows what it takes. 
"It's more mental than any­thing," Rossum said. "I had to concentrate and learn the of­fensive plays. Defense comes naturally. I played both ways in high school, but the talent level wasn't as high as it is here." 
Another factor contributing to the choice to make Rossum a 


has jobs NOWfor people to do something about our state's environment 

Hoosier Environmental Council 
has established an office in South Bend Marycrest Building 2015 Western, Suite #305 
HEC will be hiring people to do 
CITIZEN EDUCATION CITIZEN ORGANIZING 

Gain Experience, Earn Money, and Protect the Environment 
• 
M-F 2-1 0 pm; Flexible schedule 

• 
Insurance 

• 
Great work environment 

• 
Excellent weekly pay potential 

• 
Great advancement opportunities 

• 
Excellent training provided 




$325 
Work that matters! 

Work that counts! 

Call Cal at the 
Hoosier Environmental Council 
(219) 232-4961 
EOE

er week 
•.· 


By SHANNONRYAN 
Sporrs Writer 
Great weather; healing in· juries and improving times. 
These were the main ingre­dients the Saint Mary's track and field team :needed to suc­ceed at Saturday's Earlham College Invitational. 
Keeping strong in all ev13nts was key to SMC's success. The Belles earned five first place wins and finished sec­ond overall in a field of five teams; 
The success began with Alyson Tradan coming out on top in the high jump with a leap measured at 4 feet 10 inches. Alysoil Treloar kept up her tradition of excellence in the javelin, earning the team's second win with a throw of 114 feet 3 1/2 inches. 
The Belles continued their competitive spiriton the track, beating their previous times. Melissa Gornik crossed the finish line first with a time of 
18.5 seconds in the 100 meter hurdles. Theresa Zamarelli had a big afternoon, finishing first in the 200-meter dash with a time. of 8. 7 seconds. Zamarelli also earned more points for the Belles with a 
second place fmish in the 100­
meter dash, behind only 
teammate Stacy Davis. As 
Davis' hamsttiJig inJ11rY 
improves steadily, her tim(3s 
have been coming down, as 
she proved by.racing across 
the 100-lri:eter finis,h liM in · 13.1 seconds. 
Arayn Seminara and Carrie 
Bisco also assisted the. te<l:rn 
with third and fourth placesin 
the 1500-meter run. 
Taking advantage of prac­
tice time, the Belles haye 
continued to consistently 
improve. Working hard and 
focusing on their goals has 
been vital to the teams' suc­
cess, 
"They improve week by 
week as you can see in their 
performances," coach Larry 
Szczechowski said. "They 
work hard in practice, and as 
their times come down, it's 
obvious t,hey've done so." 
Despite finishing strong in 
second place, the Belles feel 
that they could have done bet­
ter. Szc:(';echowski felt their 
lack of depth may have hurt 
them. 
"If we had more depth, we 

could have had a much better 
·chance," said Szczechowski. 
"But we are improving." 

The Observer/Brandon Candura 

We're Cheap. And Easy. 
Why pay more for the "convenience" of on-cam­pus shipping when BoxesPius doesn't raise its year end prices and has free pick-up at your dorm or apartment? Boxes plus can pack and ship anything. Cheaply and Easily. 
B'XESPLUS 
You can also buy your boxes & shipping materials at BoxesPius 5622 Grape Rd. Wilshire Plaza Mishawaka 
277-5555 
The Observer • SPORTS Tuesday, April 29, 1997 
• TRACK 
Irish perform well at Drake 
By LAURA PETELLE 
Sports Writer 

The Notre Dame track and field teams turned in strong performances at the Drake Relays this past weekend at Drake University. 
"We had a very successful weekend going out there," said assistant coach Scott Winsor. "It was a good segue to the Big East." 
Jeff Ilojnaki, a two-tim11 All­Ameriean. placed second in the 800 meters, .05 seconds behind the winning time of 
1:48.16. Errol Williams turned in a fourth place finish in the 110-meter hurdles, and Mike Fleisch eame in sixth in the shot put with a throw just over 56 feet. 6 inches. 
Senior Alison Howard placed seventh in the 400 meters. Nadia Schmiedt won fourth place in the 400-meter hurdles with a time of 58.76 after win­ning her heat in 58.72. Jennifer Engelhardt came in fourth in the high jump, clear­ing 5 feet 8 3/4 inches. 
The relay team of Derek Seiling, Mike Conway, Jeff Hojnacki and Jason Rexing brought home a second place finish in the 4x1600 relay with a time of 16:31.20, two sec­onds behind the Arizona team that won the event. 
"The Drake Relays is a good, high quality warm-up meet for the Big East championships," said Windsor. "It's a great opportunity to run against the best in the country. Just a great, great meet." 
Some of the team continuml to the Boilermaker Open, held in West Lafayette, Ind. Heidi Riechenback won the 3000 meters in 10:23.16. and Marshaun West came in first in the 200 meters, finishing in 21.66. 
In the field events, Chris Smith came in second in the javelin with a throw of 188 feet, 3 inches, and Mike Brown brought home second in the pole vault with 16 feet, 3 112 inches. 
The Irish go to Villanova next weekend to compete in the Big East outdoor champi­onships. 
"We're outnumberml on the women's side when we go out there," said Windsor. "We just don't have th1~ numbnrs some of the other schools have. but the women we take out there do extremely well. We have a lot of women that will be !ight­ing for the Big East champi­onships." 
"On the men's side," contin­ued Winsor. "hopefully we'll be in the. hunt to win it. Everything's going to have to click for us to do that. Eveyone's going to have to perform up to their potnntial or maybe even a little higher." 

Track coach Scott Windsor feels confident in his team's chances to continue its success after placing second this past wsekend. 
page 15

Tuesday, April 29, 1997 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT 

Resort Living Year-round at Castle Point Apartments 
A resident of Castle Point can lead an active life or a quiet life where one's home is truly a castle. Located on the corner of Cleveland and Ironwood, Castle Point in near University Park Mall, downtown South Bend, Michigan, the Toll Road and many other major roadways. 
Apartments are spacious, fully carpeted and available in a variety of sizes and styles including 

-

some with round bedrooms and lofts. Fully-equipped kitchens offer a convenience of easy care living enabling more free time to enjoy the Health and Racquet Club ... another amenity at Castle Point. A swimming pool, indoor and outdoor tennis courts, racquetball courts, saunas, whirlpool, exercise room plus indoor and outdoor basketball and sand volleyball courts are also available to residents of Castle Point. 
"Why rent somewhere else and pay for health club activities when one can live (here) and enjoy the same health club privileges," said Jack Goens, General Manager at Castle Point. "(We) have virtually everything that a health club has!" 
Comparing the cost of health clubs against the cost ofliving at Castle Point with full health and racquet club privileges, Goens said several hundred dollars can be saved. 
Added Goens, there is the King's Hall where parties can be scheduled. A full-time activities director also organizes regular events for Castle Point residents who may wish to aerobic dance ... or simply have a private party scheduled at the clubhouse. 
Office hours at Castle Point Apartments are 9 a.m. to 6 p.m. Monday through Friday and on Saturday from 10 a.m. until6 p.m., Sunday noon to 6 
p.m. For more information regarding living "the regal life" call Castle Point at (219) 272-8110. 

eastl~1'oiot 
Apartments 


---. -----­
--~--------~-­
page 16 The Observer • SPORTS 
WOMEN'S Final Four Rosters 
SKB'S LEAST



Mary Leffers* Holly Manthei Sheila Sandine Holly Hoffman Kara Brown Kim White Colleen Sullivan Lindsey Treadwell Stacy Davis Kate MeGreevy Molly McCarthy Darcy Nikes Emily Schiebout Sarah Petrone Mary Weber 
FAVORITES 
Nicole Seibert 
Judy Amorosa 
Julia Belden 
Maureen Neville 
Liz Scharpf 
Tuesday, April29, 1997 
TeaiD 13 
continued from page 20 
freshmen used to win the 19th Annual Women's Bookstore Basketball Tournament. 
Team 13 is composed of Mary Lefers, Holly Hoffman, 

Colleen  Sullivan,  Kate  
McGreevy  and  Emily  
Schiebout.  

Team 13 narrowly defeated Wake 'Em Up in the semifi­nals, 21-19 on Saturday night. In other semifinal action, SKB's Least Favorites edged Sweet, 24-22 in a game that showed just how close the tournament really was. 
The final was played on Sunday morning when Team 13 defeated SKB's Least Favorites, 21-13 to capture the championship. 

-
Graduating Seniors Are Invited... 
to take advantage of these outstanding services from NOTRE DAME FEDERAL CREDIT UNION to help with your expenses after graduation. 
MASTERCARD/VISA-14.92°/o APR FIXED on purchases for both cards, with No ANNUAL FEE and a 25-DAY GRACE PERIOD. 
AuTo LOANS-Finance your next auto purchase of $5,000 or more with us and we'll give you $100 once your loan is disbursed. USED or NEW, rates are as low as 8.49°/o APR FIXED. Payments on your auto loan may be deferred until September, 1997. That's right-buy a car and take home a "Ben." Used or New, the rate's the same. 
No-FEE CHECKING-No MoNTHLY SERVICE CHARGE, No MINIMUM BALANCE REQUIREMENT and No PER-CHECK CHARGES. And, the first 50 checks are free! Interest is calculated daily and paid monthly 0!1 all balances of $2,500 or more. Convenient overdraft protection from Savings or a Line-of-Credit is also available. 
Feel free to call us if you need money to "get started:' Your Credit Union is the best place to begin when building your credit rating. A letter of employment is necessary when you apply for your loan(s). Applicants with good credit or no credit may qualify. No co-signer is required. Offer ends June 30, 1997. 
24-HOUR LOAN-BY-PHONE 


NOTRE DAME A Better Choice to Make 
FEDERAL CREDIT UNION 
Independent of the University 
Main Office: 239-6611 or 1-800-522-6611 www.ndfcu.org • E-Mail: ndfcu@skyenet.net Other locations: Edison Lakes -254-4400 • Ireland Road -299-2220 • Mishawaka -256-2361 Saint Joseph's Medical Center-237-7288 • Saint Mary's College-284-4614 
NCUA 

Not valid with any other otter. Rates subject to change. 


. tit 

-
... 



The Observer· SPORTS Tuesday, April 29, 1997 
::.:,:.;:: 

•·. Clintbirtg' Wall Orientations are available at the climbing wall in the Rockne Memorial (;1'\lety Sunday at1 p.m. and Wednesday at 6 p.m. Sign-up outside the wall. 
Drop-in Volleyball RecSports will be offering Drop-In Volleyball on Tuesday's from 7-10 p.m. in the Joyce Center. No estab­lished teams or advanced signt ups nect;ssary. 
Special Olympics Volunteers are needed to help Special Olympic swimmers. Practices are at Rolfs Aquatic Center on Mondays and Wednesd~ys from 4;30·5:30 }tm. For more info, call coach 
Have Something to say? Use Observer 
The Observer/Rob Finch The Irish only need two wins or two losses by Rutgers to clinch their division. They are looking for the first of these wins today. 
Baseball 
continued from page 20 
lettermen from that squad. 
Last season, right-hander Chris McKeown fired 5 1/3 in­nings to beat the Crusaders 11-3 at Eck Stadium. 
This season, the game be­tween these two squads falls later in the year. The Irish hitting last season, will lead Valpo into South Bend to go for the upset. 
Hadrick finished the 1996 campaign with a .341 batting average, seven home runs and 26 RBI. 
Due to some scheduling changes, Notre Dame will play two additional non-conference games before the Big East tournament. 
On Thursday, the Irish will 

~q"e yo\)"· htt ://www.nd.edu/~ndre  
Notre Dame Department of Music presents Notre Dame Opera Workshop Garry Grice, director john Apeitos, conductor Maurice Ravel • L'Enfant et les sortileges starring Michelle Holden & Giovanni Battista Pergolesi -La serve oadrona starring Laura Portune & Scott Whipple Monday, April 28 &Tuesday, April 29 8:00pm · Washington Hall University of Notre Dame Ttckets $6 General Admiss1on, $3 Students & Senior Cttizens F Cl r tickets c a II 6 3 1 · 8 1 2 8; For more 1 n formation c a II 6 3 1 6 2 0 1  
I pledge to investigate and take into account the social and environmental consequences of any job opportunity I consider, thereby striving to create a just, peaceful, and non­violent world. We would like to make this pledge a legacy of the class of 1997, and invite all members of the senior class and faculty to sign onto the pledge as well. Please join us in synthesizing what we've learned here at Notre Dame with what we hope to accomplish in the future. Those who sign will receive a copy of the pledge and a green ribbon which we hope to wear at graduation. Tim Ashenfelter Katie Meyer Kelly Hagerty Bridget Keenan ]en Kowieski Paige Reeves Megan Stoltz Monica Seidel Stephanie Sluka Dan Drunckenbrod Tuesday, April 29 and Wednesday. April 30 North and South Dining Halls -Lunch and Dinner LaFortune 11am -1pm until the end of the year The Resource Room/Library at the Peace Institute or call one of the above listed people.  

must guard against compla-_host Chicago State at 6 p.m. cency, which could result from looking ahead to next week­end's conference showdown with Georgetown. 
Crusader outfielder Rob Hadrick, who led the team in 
classifieds. 
.--------------, Well1 what do we hav he~e? Eileel'\ 1s happy... she cal'\'t wait eo back to the Eiffe Towef" al'1d F f"al'\cesca' cafe-C\ot a Smoke 
t-lappy 21st Bidhday Eileel'11 Love, Mom & Dad1 
-~-David & Al'11'1a1 t-lelel'\1 Suzal'11'1e 
Llou~ <_;,urvt~ lfl WR$hlflOJor1, ~ 
GW SEMESTER IN WASHINGTON 
Summer Session 1997 
An Intensive Program in Political Management for Qualified Undergraduates 
-* Learn from Washington, DC's political pv-c{e??ioflA\7 
* 
1=\roduce TV & Radio ads, construct opinion polls, stage media events, conduct field research, and more 

* 
Make co(\~ct\of\7 to launch your career 

* 
Attend "ifl7idev-" special events 


NOW ACCEPTING APPLICATIONS ON A ROLLING ADMISSIONS BASIS. APPLY NOW! 
For more information, and to receive an application, contact: (800) 367-4776, (202) 994-6000, or http:/fwww.gwu.edu/ -gspm. 


The Graduate School of Political 
Management 
GW is an equal opportunity/affirmative action institution 
. RecSports will he hiring two fu!Him.e,.one p~rt-time, and numerous substitutes to life­guard at the St. Joseph Lake Beach this summer. Please contact Greg at 1-5100 or come to RecSports office at the Joyce Center to fill out an application. 
RecSports is now accepting applications for student event supervisors and student issue room supervisors. Please pick up an • application at the Oftlce of RecSports on the first floor of the Joyce Center. For more information. call631·6100. 
BarBell tluh,;;,..; Aweightlift• ing club is coming soon next year for novice or serious lifters. Learn more about the art of lifting and developing a bigger and stronger physique. Call Binh at 4-4364 for sign­ups and more info. 
RecSports World Wide Web -RecSports is now accepting applications for a student who will be responsible for main­taining a RecSports homepage. This position does require prior experience with creating and maintaining homepages. All interested students should come hy the RecSports office to complete an application. The position is for the 1997-1998 academic year. 

I OriLY WISH I wovl.b HAVE />OTIC£/) Yoo soo~E.Jt/ IFotJLYr W'Ovt.t> HAV~ PAll> 
GOOSE & GRIMM 
g

THIS SO·CALLED "FAMILY g 
YOU GE.T CHILO-CARE i • 
FRIENDLY" POLICY IS ~ (.) 
1_ GET LOWER PROFIT-~ 
page 19

The Observer • TODAY 
DAN SULLIVAN YOUR HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Mi<'lelle Pfeiffer, jerry Seinfeld, Uma Thu:man, Andre Agassi 
DEAR EUGENIA: I was born on Nov. 13, 1969, at 1:00 a.m. I recently lost my job and separoted from my wife. I have no monev and nowhere to live. I have been r£gular1y writing to a special lady on the Net. She is married. However, she says that she is going to come visit me to see if what we have is reaL It seems that the path that I must take is unclear. 
Scorpin 

DEAR SCORPIO: job prospects don't look too bad, and I'm sure that if ypu get out there and walk the
MIKE PETERS 
pavement a little, you'll find some­thing suitable. As for the rest of your life, it's time to take control. Other people will only run your life if you let them. Don't just sit back and take it. If you can afford a computer and a place to plug it in, then you aren't as broke as many of the people on this planet. Start viewing life as if your cup is half-full instead of half­empty. 
You did not submit your married friend's birth date. However, you above all other signs should not be impressed by someone who will cheat on her husband. If she were worth your time, don't you think that she would end that relationship first? Love will be much better for you in 1998. You match up well to Taurus and Pisces. 
ARIES (March 21-April 20): You can meet someone special if you get involved in worthwhile causes. Busi­
SCOTT ADAMS 
n~>ss partnerships could evolve. TAURUS (April21-May 21): Emo-
I'M. A \JKTlf"\ ~UT IN 
SOME STRt:>.NGE 
tional c0nfrontations will interfere with you:-performance at work. You must tr~ to separate situations in order to r··main objective. 
GEMi "'I (May 22-June 21): You will find 1t easier to relax todav. You should enjoy creative endeavOrs or physical-fitness programs. 
CANCER (June 22-July 22): You may find yourself taking care of the needs of older familv members. Be sure to get relatives to.help you. 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 23): You can solidify a partnership if you play your cards right. Your charm and obvious sex appeal will attract the individuals you least expected. 
VIRGO (Aug. 24-Sept. 22): Make phns to do things with children. You c n stabilize your relationship if you are willing to stroke your mate's ego 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 23): You will ~i€ back money that you thought ~~ ~.J't.i ne\'t~r see again. Your plans for entertainment will be well-received by your friends. 
SCORPIO (Oct. 24-Nov. 22): You 
may feel stifled at home. Too many 
people are taking you for granted. 
You need time for yourself. 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 23-Dec. 21): 
You will find it difficult to discuss 
personal problems. Evading issues 
will make matters worse. 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 20): 
You will be torn between work and 
home once again. Make the necessary 
phone calls during regular working 
hours. 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 21-Feb. 18): You 
are always a little ahead of your time 
which, in turn, will cause envy and 
opposition. 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Put 
your efforts into beautifying your 
home. You should involve the whole 
family in the process. 


LIKE A TAX ON CI-\ILOLESS ~ PEOPLE. ·;:j 

:l 
~ 
;: 
SEtting 22 S: Jrdy furniture material 25 Tot's noisemaker 26 Rose's home, in song 
made this past year a success. 

THANKS 


27 Common vipers 28 Globe 29 Ford model 30 Galilee's 
kinsmen 31 Amos's partner 32 Part of "www" 34 Luke precede 35Santa--, 
Calif. 38 First-rate Abbr. 
39 Flip over 40 Shoal 45 Confer (upon) 

Born Today: Don't let confusion stand in the way of your success this year. If you have questions, don't be afraid to ask. Your creative abilities will be at an all-time high, and you must work hani to promote what you do bt-st. 

-
.. 

ACROSS 1 It's hailed by city dwellers 5 "The final frontier" 10 Philosopher David 14 Plow pullers 15 Director Welles 16 Ukraine's Sea of-­17 One socially challenged 18 Scottish estate owner 19 "Oh, my!" 20 Bad news 23 Philosopher John 24 It comes from the heart 28 Tampa neighbor, informally 
31 Maladroit 33 "Common Sense" pamphleteer 34 Equestrian's 
handful 36Smidgen 37 Lots of activity 41 Baseball stat 42 Like 
Superman's vision 43 Less tanned 44 Kickoff response 47 TV journalist Poussaint et al. 48 Highway curves 49 Winr!ow cover 
51 ''<esome :::!1icken 
57 Talk 60 Alternatives to 
suspenders 61 Keen 62 One for the road 63$100 bill 64 Reply to the 
Little Red Hen 65 "That was a 
close one!" 66 Planted 67 Word with high 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

Rectors 
N.D. 
Security The Observer 

N.D. 
Golf Course Rockne Memorial Rolf1sAquatic Center Loftus Sports Center Issue Room Workers First Aid Personnel 


or hole 
DOWN 
1 Chinese dynasty 2 Skater's move 3 Dry: Prefix 4 Slothful 5 Comfort giver 6 Short-sheeting a bed, e.g. 7 Stage remark a Part of a parachute 9 Prefix with -morph 10 Upper part of a barn 11 Terrorist's weapon 12 Swab 
13 "The Three Fi'cesof--" 
46 Volcano detritus 53 Gambling game 47 Got the suds 54 The Bard's river out 55 Toy with a tail 
49 "Look out--!" 

56 Singer Brickell 50 Starbucks 
57 Beret

serving 58 "Come again?"
52 Kindergarten instruction 59 Noshe:::l 
Answers to any three clues in this puzzle 
Wanted: Reporters, 
are available by touch-tone phone: 1·900-420-5656 (75¢ per minute). Annual subscriptions are available lor the 
photographers and editors. 
best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Rec:-~ 
The Office of Recreational Sports would like to thank all those who 
Joyce Center Ice Rink Athletic Grounds Crew Athletic Commisioners RecService Course Instructors Joyce Center Intramural Officials Aerobic Instructors Student Supervisors Medical Services EMT's 

SPORTS 
page 20 Tuesday, April 29, 1997 
• GUEST COlUMN • BASEBAll 
Team 13 crowned Irish look to clinch division 
By BRIAN REINTHALER Assistant Sporrs Editor
Bookstore champion 
school years. As the Irish enter their final
Large field Fifty-two teams were week of the season, they will entered in the tournament be looking to make one last 
provides intense with varying levels of experi­push as they shoot for the Big 
ence and athleticism, but East Championship. 
N
-
competition there was a lot of energy When Seton Hall swept St. shown from almost every John's last weekend, Notre ot only did this year's team. It is great to see that Dame clinched a first or sec­women's Bookstore women are gaining so much ond place finish in the confer­Basketball tournament enthusiasm about the tourna­ence's National Division, along h a v e ment, and we hope to see the with one of the post-season m o r e Megan McNally entries increase each year. tournament spots. However, t e a m s Bookstore Commissioner Congratulations goes out to the Irish will not be satisfied 
entered Team 13, who should have with just a trip to the tourna­than any previous year, it also had a more original name that ment at which they finished had a lot more competition. would have represented the second a year ago. 
It is proof that our genera­energy and spirit that the five The Blue and Gold will first tion of women will stay active attempt to capture their divi­
and competitive beyond high see TEAM 131 page 16 sion title and the No. 1 seed in the playoffs. Their magic number for doing so is two. 

Any combination of Irish conference wins and Hutgers conference losses totalling zero will do the trick for Notre Dame. Beyond that, they aim to win the Big East post-sea­son championship and thereby advance to the NCAA tourna­ment. 
The Irish must take one game at a time, though. That includes tonight's contest against regional opponent Valparaiso. 
Valpo finished third in the Mid-Continent Conference in 1996 and have 28 returning 
The Observer/Rob Finch 

Senior Mike Amrhein has been a key to Notre Dame's success this see BASEBALL I page 18 season. The team hopes that his strong play will carry into the playoffs . 

• FOOTBAlL 
Ross urn to see action in three facets of the game 

Captal·n appear.s mor~ than just _dc:ense .and 
special teams. fins spnng,"d · Hossum has spent time working at Wl e OUt ln out with the first team offense at widn receiver in hopes of
Blue-Gold game nnding a home run hitter. "I think Allen can help us a 
By JOE CAVATO 

lot on offense," Davie said. Assistant Sports Editor 
"Anyone can sec every time he touches that football why he When the Georgia Tech game averages 22 yards." 
rolls around Sept. 6, Irish fans Hossum, who will be a senior will begin to learn who wearing and one of the three designatedthe Blue and Gold will make 
captains, is excited about his 
the biggest impact on the team increased opportunities to getin the 1997 season. 
his hands on the pigskin.
That player maybe one of the ''I'm going to enjoy it. Most of 
smallest on the roster, with 
the time the ball is coming to Allen Hossum looking to make 
me and I'm not out there to 
his presence felt in every facet 
block, so I'm excited," said 
of the game. 
Hossum 
After his sophomore year, 
In the Blue-Gold scrimmages,
Hossum developed into Bob 
Hossum had two receptions and 
Davie's most confident and 
broke free on a reverse, play­consistent corner. 
ing parts of the second and 
This past season, the 5-8 fourth quarters of the games
11ash wearing No. 15 had his 
with the offense. Rossum 
coming-out party on special showed that he simply needs 
teams as he energized crowds 
the ball after returning an 
and was a threat to return it 
interception for 70 yards and a the distance on every return. 
score in last weekend's game . 
Last season, Rossum led the 
Early in the spring, Hossum nation with a 22.9 yard aver­was still getting his feet wet at age while returning three for the wide out slot. lie did take 
touchdowns. 
advantage of his time there,For the upcoming season, increasing his confidence on 
Davie and the rest of his coach­the offensive side of the ball. 
ing staff hope to utilize 

The Observer/Rob Finch 
Hossum's track star speed on see ROSSUM I page 13

In Saturday's Blue-Gold game, senior captain Allen Rossum showed promise on offense as well as defense. 

Track at Big East Championships, 
., a; •Tracksters warm up at Drake Relays 
May 3-4 see page 14Track at DePauw,
S,tt ...'-= 
\A. May 3, 11 a.m. 
. . riJ •Knicks advance to second round 
Softball vs. 
see page 12 Adrian College, 

~ 
Today, 3:30p.m. 
~ 
M..ft Baseball vs. Valparaiso,_/' Today, 7 p.m. 
Softball vs. Western
w -# 
Michigan,/ Tomorrow, 4 p.m. 

., 
Men's Lacrosse at 
Ohio State May 3, 2 p.m. 







