f 
( 

Monday, September 1, 1997 • Vol. XXXI No. 6 THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
• fACUlTY REACTION 
Faculty members question 'Spirit of Inclusion' 
By MATTHEW LOUGHRAN those half-steps that [the offi­fessor of communications and people and it should be reflec­Associate News Editor cers of the University] take but theatre, agreed with tive of the milieu. We don't just doesn't get the job done." 'We don't want a Preacher's question. want a Church that is not in Some faculty members Father Malloy issued the church that is "It is very prejudicial to think touch with the culture of its 
expressed disappointment statement, which will be of people in terms of imagined people."
not in touch with the 
about Notre Dame's new included in all University pub­sexual acts," he said. "It is a Garrick also questioned "Spirit of Inclusion," which lications, on Friday morning. culture of its people.' very old prejudice to imagine whether the statement will University president Father It begins with a biblical quote certain sexual juxtapositions in affect equality on campus. Edward Malloy announced on from the book of Ephesians, reference to homosexuals. "Look at the huge list for Friday. equating homosexual students, Ava Preacher, That is not done to heterosexu­Activities Night," he said. "Not 
"A 'Spirit of Inclusion' is faculty and staff with what the associate dean als and it should not be done one gay student group is on nice, but it doesn't give any text calls, "strangers and College ofArts and Letters to homosexuals." list. Not one gay student group legal protection," said Ava sojourners no longer." He also Preacher also took issue with has been able to get on the list. Preacher, associate dean of the wrote an open letter explain­Malloy's fear that civil courts Call GLND's number at 236 ­College of Arts and Letters and ing the statement and the offi­it possible that someone neces­would interpret "sexual orien­9661. Listen to their message. Faculty Senate representative cers' reasons for issuing the sarily admits to that conduct tation" differently than the You will learn that they have to the Campus Life Council.· "I statement. when openly stating that they Catholic Church would. no meeting place at Notre firmly believe that [homosexu­"I think lthe letter] is prob­are gay? Someone may lose "He said that they might Dame that they can depend on. al students, faculty and staff] lematic and confusing," their livelihood by openly interpret the change through Does this sound like the mes­have to have legal protection. Preacher said. "Malloy makes admitting they are gay, and the 'broader social milieu,"' sage of people who are This new statement is one of a distinction that may exclude there is no legal protection." she said. "This is a Catholic 'strangers and sojourners no 
a section of the population. Is Father David Garrick, pro-Church, it is a Church for the longer'?" 

Grant allows ND to add journalism concentration 
By MICHELLE KRUPA 
Associate News Editor 

Notre Dame undergraduates now have the opportunity to formally study the field of journalism thanks to a $ 1 2 9 ' 6 0 0 
,..----------, grant from the John S. and James 
L. Knight Foundation. 

Still in the planning stages, the interdiscipli-Schmuhl nary pro­gram will be somewhat like the Hesburgh Program in Public Service; students will add journalism as a concen­
tration while pursuing a tradi­tional major, according to American studies chair and program director, Robert Schmuhl. 
"The grant allows existing 
faculty  at  Notre  Dame  to  
develop  new  courses in the  
realm  of  journalism,"  

Schmuhl said. "It will be interdisciplinary and will fea­ture the involvement of pro­fessional journalists in a num­ber of courses." 
Currently, various journal­ism courses are available to students through different departments such as American studies, govern­ment, history and psychology. The new program will bring 
see GRANTI page 3 
Britons gather to mourn the loss of Princess Di 
Diana's wounds 
Princess Diana died of cardiac arrest due 
to internal bleeding. Doctors at Hospital La 
Pitie Salpetriere opened Diana's chest 
cavity to find a wound of the left pulmonary 
vein. External and internal heart massage 
failed to start the princess' heart. 
Left pulmonary vein --"":---Left pulmonary artery 
Cut-away representation of the heart 
Source: Dictionnaire Visual Pour Tous, Le Coeur AP!Terry Kole 
By MAUREEN JOHNSON 
Associated Press Writer 
LONDON 

Prince Charles brought Princess Diana home for the last time Sunday, escorting the body of his "English rose" back to the land where their storybook romance ended in sor­row and scandal, a nation now plunged into grief and outrage over a stunning final tragedy. 
A jet carrying the somber prince and the coffin bearing his ex-wife's remains landed outside London 16 hours after Diana died from injuries 
seven pursuing paparazzi photographers may have played in the early Sunday morning tragedy, which also took the lives of the 36­year-old Diana's new beau, the millionaire Dodi Fayed, and their chauffeur. 
The red-tailed jet from Paris landed at the Northholt air base, where a grim array of dig­nitaries, led by Prime Minister Tony Blair, had gathered under leaden skies. A Royal Air Force honor guard solemnly bore the coffin from the aircraft to a waiting hearse. 
"How difficult things were for her from time to time, I am sure we can only guess at," Blair said earlier in the day. "But people 
everywhere 
suffered --------------------------Theywhen her liked her, automobile, 'people everywhere... They liked they loved 
chased by her, they loved her, they her· they
photogra-regarded 
p h e r s . regarded her as one of the people.' her as one crashed in a of the peo-Paris traffic British Prime Minister Tony Blair pie." 
tunnel. 

At the Seine riverside tunnel, outside her London palace home, mourners heaped flowers in tribute to the much-admired Diana. But the sadness mixed with anger -outrage at a press that pursued the princess relentlessly in life, and may have contributed to her death. 
"I always believed the press would kill her in the end," said her brother, Charles Spencer. 
French police were investigating the role 
After the 
brief air­port ceremony, Charles flew back to Scotland to be with the couple's two sons, Princes William, 15, and Harry, 12. 
Buckingham Palace said the funeral plans were likely to be announced Monday. But across the nation, for millions of Britons in myriad ways, the mourning had already begun for the queen they never had. 
In St. Paul's Cathedral, where Diana was 
see DIANA/ page 5 
Monday, September 1, 1997
page 2 The Observer • INSIDE 
• INSIDE COLUMN 

Holding out for a hero 
To the list of greatest 
uniform numbers ever 
worn, another number 
was added yesterday. 
No. 23. 
But before you think 
that Michael Jordan has 
retired for a second 
time, you should know 
that the owner of this 
No. 23 isn't the great­
est basketball player of 
all time. In fact, this baseball player is not 
even close to being the greatest player ever 
on his team, the New York Yankees. 
But he is one of the greatest role models 
ever. 
At Yankee Stadium yesterday afternoon, 
Don Mattingly, the greatest Yankee never to 
have won a World Series ring, had his num­
ber added to the list of Ruth, Gehrig, 
Dimaggio and Mantle. Mattingly's 14-year 
career produced statistics worthy of eventu­
al Hall of Fame induction; the four-season 
span from 1984 to 1987-in which 
Mattingly won a batting title, an MVP award 
and set the record for most grand slams in 
a season -was some of the best hitting of 
that decade. 
But what separates him from other 
Yankee greats is something he never 
achieved: an appearance in the World 
Series. Mattingly joined the team in 1982, 
one season after the team last played in the 
World Series, and retired in 1995, just 
before the team's title-winning season last 
year. 
For the tradition-laden Yankees, who 
have reached the World Series 34 times 
since 1923, enduring 14 years without a 
championship was unheard of. Such a dis­
tinction is not what one strives for when he 
breaks into the major leagues, but it 
emphasizes the graceful manner with which 
Mattingly played his career. Glory didn't 
seek Mattingly, but he didn't seek glory 
either. 
In the self-promotion era of the 1980s and 
1990s, his modesty, more than not winning 
a title for the Yankees, is unheard of. 
Mattingly, like Jordan in Chicago, played in 
one of the top media markets in the coun­
try. 
Unlike Jordan, Mattingly didn't line his 
pocket with endorsement dough. Playing 
the game was enough. 
Mattingly never held out for a better con­
tract, never pouted over a decision made by 
his manager, never demanded to be traded, 
and, most importantly, never left town in 
the era of unbridled free agency. In his 
entire career, the greatest flap he ever cre­
ated was over how long his hair had grown 
below his baseball cap. 
In the Bronx Zoo directed by George 
Steinbrenner, where managers change 
more often than the Dow increases, that's 
incredible. 
If any author could write Mattingly's biog­
raphy, it would have been Hemingway. A 
throwback to the time of the silent hero 
who was graceful under pressure, Mattingly 
has been a cool breeze in the era of hot­
aired, superficial celebrities determined to 
see their name in the headlines as. much as 
possible. 
Mattingly never set out to be anything 
more than a great ballplayer. But in doing 
so, he accomplished something more. 
He became a role model. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 

• TooAv's STAFF  
News  Graphics  
Derek Betcher  Melissa Weber  
Sarah Hiltz  Production  
Sports  Mark DeBoy  
Betsy Baker  Heather Cocks  
Viewpoint  Derek Betcher  
Kelly Brooks  Lab Tech  
Accent  Kevin Dalum  
Nate Wills  

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and v.acation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights arc reserved. 

• WORLD AT A GLANCE 
Secretary Herman: Labor must share in prosperity 
WASHINGTON 

"The unfinished business of America's new prosperity" is to narrow the gap between rich and poor, Labor Secretary Alexis Herman said Sunday in a Labor Day message. 
"These are indeed prosperous times, but still a quiet unease lurks ... that our nation will declare success before all Americans will have their chance to claim their fair share," she said. 
Herman said she found during a week's nationwide tour that "workers are in better shape than in many, many years." But she also sensed worry that "America's rising tide may be casting 
Labor trends work stoppages beginmng 4000 ­3500­aooo­2500­2000­1soo­
1000 

.90 
fiscal years 
our citizens toward two separate L---------:-=-::-:-7'"--:--=--=-' shores." On one side is a "new econo-AP/Nicole Davis 
is quickly washing away beneath their feet," Herman said. She was referring to those displaced by downsizing, new technology and offshore production. 
Herman's tour started in Seattle short­ly after she played a role in settling the 15-day nationwide Teamsters Union strike against United Parcel Service. It took her to Minnesota, Texas, Tennessee and West Virginia, ending with the Labor secretary's traditional Labor Day address this year in the form of the Sunday sermon to more than 1,000 pea-pleat Washington's National Cathedral. 
"On Labor Day 1997, the task before us as a nation-as a moral people ... as children of God is to make sure that the 
economy's new buoyancy lifts the lives of 
my, full of opportunity and challenge," she said. all Americans ... that we do not declare our work complet-But on the other side, "the same tide may be stranding ed until America's new prosperity is shared by all," she some Americans on the shoreline of an old economy that said. 
Cartoonist strives for educational strips 
NEW YORK 

In producing episodes of the popu-.-­lar "Doug" cartoon over the past few years, Jim Jinkins had one cen­tral worry: Will children laugh? Now his scripts must pass muster with a team of Harvard educators who have another concern: Will children learn? New federal rules taking casters to air at least three hours a week of educational shows for children. The rules already have forced some changes, but haven't ended the debate over nutritional programming for young minds. Several new features designed to fulfill the mandate debut this week, like the Norman Lear-pro­duced cartoon "Umptee-3 TV" on the WB, "The Sports Illustrated for Kids Show" on CBS and an ABC cartoon about a 12-year-old named Pepper Ann. Yet many existing programs will simply return to the schedule, newly defined as "educational." "For us, this was just business as usual," said Maureen Smith, in charge of children's programming at Fox. "We will continue to pick shows that will not only educate but entertain." 
Bayh uses Labor Day to court voters 
INDIANA 
While most Indiana residents are relaxing at backyard cookouts Sunday, some of the state's politicians will use Labor Day to court potential voters. Among them will be former Gov. Evan Bayh, who is expected to run for U.S. Senate next year. The Democrat will take part in parades in Boonville and Terre Haute and United Auto Workers' picnics in Anderson and Fort Wayne. He'll cap the day with another parade in Elkhart. ''I'll start at 7 
a.m. and end about 7 p.m. It's a full day," Bayh said. Thirty years ago, Bayh noted, it would have been consid­ered too early to start campaigning 15 months before the election. Not anymore. While Bayh is seeking the Democratic nomination for the Senate, the GOP has three candidates vying to succeed the retiring Sen. Dan Coats, R-Ind. "I feel there's not enough time," said local attorney Peter Rusthoven, one of the three candidates. Another hopeful, local attorney John Price, has sched­uled 11 events for the holiday weekend -from Oktoberfest in Michigan City on Friday to Old Fashioned Days in North Salem on Monday. 
• SOUTH BEND WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forcast AccuWeatherl!> forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 
"~:;:~:~~: :-::: ... »


:'U ·~ 
~:-:::v~C·.·~··· 
·.~.. '··.·,~.'.:•.'.:~··.-_;_ ·:_ =:::tci-~J~·.·.. ..·.~::::.=:.­
r: ~ . ---:·:rt:~ 

Mon 
~ 
..... ,~ 
Tuesd*y ~ 84 65J Wednesda 
··.. 68 )57s~ 
j
·,_ 

Frtday. · ,sl._v ..· 
[;·\),_... ,__.J,.,.'--..t; . . ;; 
q,~-~9.~8 ~ ~ ~ 
Showers T-storms Rain Flu"ies Snow Ice Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy 
V<a Associsl&d Press Graphic:s~Ht 
HIV patients to receive organs 
SAN FRANCISCO 

As new therapies prolong the lives of those infected with the virus that causes AIDS, the University of California in San Francisco is offering organ transplants to people infected with HIV. But doctors said they would only offer organs to people whose infection with the virus was under control and who are not dying from other diseases. And HIV patients will only get organs that otherwise would have been turned down, so others will not be deprived of the kidneys or hearts they need, said Dr. Nancy Ascher, a UCSF liver transplant surgeon. That would include body parts from donors who are HIV negative but considered high risk -such as people who are gay, have multiple sex partners or have a history of intravenous drug use. Most other major transplant centers in the nation will not give organs to people infected with the AIDS virus. They say the shortage of donated organs demands that they be reserved for those with the greatest chance of a long and productive life. Dr. John Lake, medical director of UCSF's transplant program, says his department had to look at the long-term prognosis of people with HIV in the same way it looks at people with any other disease such as can­cer or heart problems. "We had to do what was right," he said in Sunday's issue of the San Francisco Examiner. But others consider it a highly questionable policy. 
VMI woman complains of harassment 
LEXINGTON, Va. 

At least one of the women in Virginia Military Institute's first coed class has complained about being singled out for unfair treatment. Senior Class President Kevin Trujillo said Saturday the woman felt she was being picked on by the cadre, the upperclassmen who train the freshman class -known as "rats." The woman, who was not identified, plans to stay at VMI, Trujillo said. One other woman has been calJed before the Rat Disciplinary Committee. Trujillo said Angelica Garza of Fort Belvoir "popped off a little attitude with an upperdassman." Her penalty will be calisthenics. Except for a few members of the bellowing training cadre who "got a Jittle hot" and had to be told to back off from yelling at the freshmen, no inappropriate behavior toward females has occurred, Trujillo said. The 158­year-old school chose to go coed after a 1996 Supreme Court ruling that it could not be both state-supported and all-male. As of Sunday, two of 30 women have dropped out since arriving on campus last month. Twenty-seven men also dropped out. 
• NATIONAL WEATHER 
The AccuWeather®forecast for noon, Monday, Sept. 1. 

----, 
Monday, September 1, 1997 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
"At this point, given the sup­port of the Knight Foundation


Board names Williams chairman Grant 
and the cooperation of every­

Special to The Observer 
Father Oliver F. Williams, associate professor of man­agement in the College of Business Administration and 
co ­of the Notre Dame Center for Ethics a n d Heligious Values in Business, has been 


e I e c t e d Williams chairman of ­the American board of the United States-South Africa Leadership Development 
Program (USSALEP). 
Father Williams, who served as a member of the United Nations Observation Mission for South Africa's first post­apartheid national elections in April 1994, has studied the South African business and political landscape for many years. 
He facilitated a landmark 1991 meeting at Notre Dame between U.S. corporate and government officials and rep­resentatives of the African National Congress, the Inkatha Freedom Party and the Pan-Africanist Congress, and has spent the last two years in South Africa, teach­ing business ethics at the University of Capetown and Stellenbosch University. 
A 1961 Notre Dame gradu­ate, Father Williams was ordained a Holy Cross priest in 1970. He earned a doctor­ate from the Vanderbilt University Divinity School in 1974. A member of the Notre Dame faculty since 1973, he served as associate provost of the University from 1978-94. 
Since its establishment in 1958, USSALEP, a binational non-governmental organiza­tion, has administered exchange and training pro­grams in the United States and South Africa. 

continued from page 1 
these disciplines together and add to them new internship opportunities and more exten­sive, specific course options. 
"We are talking to people at ABC's Nightline and NBC's Meet the Press about possible internships, and we will con­tinue to conduct those that already exist locally," Schmuhl said. 
Two factors will affect the augmentation of the program, which Schmuhl anticipates will draw 25-30 students by next fall: the development of additional courses by profes­sors and the approval of these courses by University officials. 

ATTENTION ALL NDCIBD MEMBERS! 
We are sending delegations over Fall Break to ... 
ASIA, BENIN, and the UNITED NATIONS. 
Interviews will be early this week so act now! 
Call the Council office 1-9044 A.S.A.P. 
Leave your name and phone number. 

Call Now! 
one at the University, we would expect the program to be completely in place in a couple of years," Schmuhl said. 
For the time being, one new 
course, "The Craft of 
Journalism," is in place, and 
several news veterans will 
come to campus to discuss 
their careers as part of its 
curriculum. 
The Knight Foundation, which will support the pro­gram for three years, makes national grants in journalism, education and the field of arts and culture. 
In a recent press release, the foundation's president, Creed Black, expressed confi­dence in the choice to endow Notre Dame's program. 
"Our trustees think Notre Dame has approached the expansion of its journalism concentration in the right way. By starting with a solid emphasis in the liberal arts and adding an underpinning of the basics -writing, edit­ing, ethics and journalism's value -Notre Dame will pre­pare its graduates for what ought to be a fascinating career for the 21st century," Black said. 





Head for the Hills! 

• 
Is a one credit Theology course­


• 
Involves orientation & follow-up classes 

• 
Offers service work through various sites in Appalachia 

• 
Past participants in Appalachia Seminar are encouraged to apply as site coordinators 

• 
Presents opportunity to work, laugh, & learn with others 


INFORMATION SESSION 
Tuesday, September 9,1997 7:30-8:00 PM Center for Social Concerns 
APPLICATIONS 

Available at the Center for Social Concerns Due date: Thursday, September 11, 1997 $40 deposit with application 
FURTHER INFORMATION 

Sean Frey, Student Co-chair, 4-4911 Ryan Murphy, Student Co-chair, 4-1980 Rachel Tomas Morgan, Seminar Coordinator, 1-94 73 Jay Brandenberger, Faculty Advisor, 1-5293 

Tickets 


Buy•SeU•Trade Seasons and Individuals GA's only•Confidential 
234--s6so·· 
Fall Kick-Off Party! 
Come celebrate the 17th year ofBaptist Student Union at ND!!!!! 

All are welcome. 
Monday, September 1 7pm The Centerfor Social Concerns 
.. us EO a . ; as a to a c 
page 4 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT Monday, September 1, 1997 

Van Gogh's Starry Night HTTP://WWW.TRENTGRF.COM The Beatles 
Monday, September 1, 1997 The Observer • WORLD NEWS page 5 







Diana 
continued from page 1 
married 16 years ago, the vast nave was filled for a special evening service, attended mostly by people in casual weekend dress. Flags flew at half-staff across the kingdom. All soccer games -the nation­al sport -were canceled. The airwaves were filled with "God Save the Queen," the national anthem. 
Hundreds of ordinary Britons, many in tears, gath­ered outside Kensington Palace, Diana's home. "She was one sparkling gem. very warm, a genuine person," said Josephine Boeg-Clarke, 65, her eyes red from crying. 
"She was banished by the royal family, but she was the star member of the royal fami­ly," said royal biographer Anthony Holden. "It will be hard to see what they will be without her." 
In Paris, the French, too, like many around the world, joined in lamenting the loss of a princess who had carried on with style and smiles through years of adversity in an ill-fit­ting marriage. 
"She had everything," said Pascale Tremblay, a waitress in a Parisian bakery. "She was as good as she was beautiful." 
Charles had flown to Paris on Sunday afternoon with. Diana's two sisters, Lady Jane Fellowes and Lady Sarah McCorquodale, to retrieve the remains of the woman he divorced last year after 15 years of marriage. 
French President Jacques Chirac and his wife, Bernadette, met the heir to the 

Give Us A Minute, We'll Give You A Buck! 
Resource Center ATM Demonstrations* Beginning August 26,3:00-6:00p.m. Hesburgh Library -Lower Level 
.-sou•ce4t 

liliBank 
Your partners from the fir~ 
• Limit one demonstration per person 
British throne at the hospital where Diana died three hours after the crash and where her body lay. 
The crash occurred in a tunnel at a bridge, the Pont de l'Alma, just north of the Eiffel Tower. Fayed, 42-year­old son of the billionaire Egyptian owner of London's prestigious Harrods depart­ment store, was dead at the scene, as was the chauffeur. 
A fourth person in the sedan, a bodyguard, suffered serious injuries. 
Seven photographers who were detained immediately after the crash were placed under formal custody Sunday afternoon. Police sources said the seven, questioned throughout the day, would spend Sunday night in cus­tody. They can be held with­out charges for up to 48 hours. 
French police said the investigation of the crash, which a bodyguard survived with serious injuries, would be handled by a special unit usually assigned to high-pri­ority terrorism cases. 
Diana often had com­plained of being plagued by the paparazzi -the com­mercial photographers who trailed her since she entered the public eye as a shy young woman. 
Diana and Fayed had dined at the Ritz Hotel -owned by Fayed's family -and report­edly were on their way to a private villa in western Paris, also owned by Fayed. 

Witnesses said the photogra­phers, riding motorcycles, were swarming around the black Mercedes-Benz before it entered the tunnel shortly after midnight. 
France's interior minister, Jean-Pierre Chevenement, said 
• Dec.1995 
Prince Charles agr·ee1rt6 di\rOrc:~ [)jqiiff:JJ at the request of 
, AP/Nicole Davis 
Diana's car was traveling at high speed through the tunnel, and the driver lost control. He didn't specify the speed, but a source close to the investiga­tion, speaking on condition of anonymity, said it was well over 60 mph -perhaps almost twice that. 

The speed limit was 30 mph. Diana and Fayed were not believed to be wearing seat belts, the source said. 
The car hit a curb, crashed into a concrete post in the center divider, then bounced across the right lane and smashed roof-first into the tiled wall. The impact destroyed the car, turning it in to a heap of crumpled metal and broken glass. 
France Info radio said at least some of the photogra­phers took pictures before help arrived -and that one of the photographers was beaten at the scene by horri­fied witnesses. Six of the pho­tographers were French and one was Macedonian. 
"We want the entire truth," the Fayeds' family lawyer, Bernard Darteville, later told French television. "It seems to me to be a case of involun­tary homicide." 
Italian photographer Mario Brenna, who himself has pur­sued Diana pictures, said he was told by a colleague at the scene that photographers were no longer chasing the car when it crashed. 
"He and his colleagues had already broken away from the auto," Brenna told the Italian news agency ANSA. 
Diana was rushed to Paris' Hospital de Ia Pitie Salpetriere, suffering major chest and lung injuries and internal bleeding. 
Dr. Bruno Riou said Diana had quickly gone into cardiac 
arrest and that doctors tried for 
at least two hours to save her, 
applying internal and external 
cardiac massage to no avail. At 
4 a.m., she died. Princes William and Harry were informed of their moth­er's death by their father at Balmoral Castle, Scotland. 
Are you interested in broadcasting? Iwvfi 18 looking for on-air personalities to broadcast: Pick up an application at the wvfi table at Activities Night, Tuesday, • September 2nd. Applications due on Thursday, September 4th. Don't WVI• I new musJc ffilSS out! amradio  







OINT 
page 6 Monday, September 1, 1997 
THE OBSERVER 
NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1997-98 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Brad Prendergast Managing Editor Business Manager Jamie Heisler Tom Roland Assistant Managing Editor 
Dan Cichalski News Editor ............................ Heather Cocks Advertising Manager. ............................. Jed Peters Viewpoint Editor ....................... Kelly Brooks Ad Design Manager ..................... Jennifer Breslow Sports Editor .................................. Mike Day Production Manager. ........................ Mark DeBoy 
Accent Editor ........................... Joey Crawford Sysrems Manager ....................... Michad Brouillet Saint Mary's Editor ........................ Lori Allen Conrroller ............................................ Kyle Carlin Photo Editor ........................... Katie Kroener 
The Observer is rhe independent newspaper published by the students·o·f the University.ofNotre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. It does nor necessarily reflect the pohctes of ~he admt.ntst.ratlon of etther institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unstgned edttonals. represent rhe opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managi~g Ediro~, Assistant Managi~g Edt tor, N~s Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Sports Editor, Accent Edttor, Samt Marys Edttor, Photo Edt tor, and Assoctate News Editor. Commenraries, letters and Inside Columns present the vtews of the authors, and ~ot neces-. sarily those ofThe Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notre.Dame/Samr Marys community and to all readers. The free expression ofvarying opinions through letters ts encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 
Editor-in-Chief  631-4542  Business Office  631-5313  
Managing Editor  631-4541  Advertising  631-6900/8840  
News/Photo  631-5323  Systems  631-8839  
Sports  631-4543  Office Manager  631-7471  
Accent/Saint Mary's  631-4540  Fax  631-6927  
Day Edimr/Viewpoinr  631-5303  Viewpoint E-Mail  Viewpoim.l @nd.edu  
General Information  631-7471  Ad E-Mail  observer@darwin.cc.nd.cdu  


• JEOI MIND TRICKS 

Countdown to Game Time: T Minus Six 

We should have today off. Today is an Irish holiday (not that we get a day off for this hol­iday -in the God, Country, Notre Dame hierarchy, ND over­rides national holidays, i.e. 
Kevin Patrick 

Labor Day). For this holiday, you will not see streamers, you will not hear halleluias, and most of the beneficiaries do not even realize this "holiday" exists. 
This is not a holiday for those of Celtic descent. It is a celebra­tion for all of the Notre Dame "Irish" across the country. For this very Monday, outlined against a blue-gray September sky. signals the end of the famine -the final stage of our 12 step "off-season" program. Today begins the march to the national championship. No more weekends without Notre Dame football. No more speculation. 
No more anticipation. 
No more misguided fantisizing on the immeasurable impact the freshman class will have in determining the success or fail­ure on the entire season. No more hanging on the every word of your buddy who has a friend whose roommate is dating the sister of the junior football man­ager who also happens to have an in with the head football manager who thinks that Clement Stokes improved his ability to sell the play action pass is the key to Ron Powlus' breakthrough year and our national title hopes. No more bitterness on Saturdays because you are in South Bend, Indiana (OK, just less bitterness). 
Today starts game week. 
Ah, to be banished from the bookstore by throngs of people not buying books, to line the walk from the Basilica to the stadium, to dance on wood planks to the most storied fight song, to pass unsuspecting peers and classmates through the stands, to wave at Bill Kirk sit­ting in his perch, to cheer the Irish Guard, to appreciate the humor of the Indiana State Police, to explode as the players enter the stadium, to greet the oppositions starting line-up with that good Catholic warmth, to jam with the band at half-time, to do push-ups in the stands, to throw marshmallows, to stand the whole game, to salute the students after a hard fought bat­tle, to position yourself next to the "hottie" right before the alma mater is played. Life begins again. 
Today is the beginning of a week that answers many ques­tions, but also presents many more. 
•Will 
the "1812 Overture" be played? 

•When 
it is played, what will we all do? ("Bob!" just doesn't seem to do it). 

•If 
the "Backer" opened and nobody came, what would you do? (Go home and see what Wednesday night TV has to offer.) 

•Hypothetical 
ruined: What if the one resident selected to speak at the pep rally was John Cerasani? 

•Would 
he talk about his dying mother as the Chicago Tribune 



would suggest? 
•Or 
would he talk about improving his 12 I.Q. as John Beeler would suggest? 

•What 
arrives in the endzone three seconds after Joey Getherall? (Allen Russum). 

•What 
does it take to receive a Rhodes Scholarship and where does Jimmy Friday sign up? 

•When 
Notre Dame scores more than two touchdowns, will the cheerleaders have to hold the Leprechaun's knees? 

•When 
Autry Denson runs to his left, will he switch the ball to his left hand? 

•
If Malcolm Johnson fumbles at the goal line, will everyone blame Jim Sanson? {Oh, I'm sorry, that was last year). 

•With 
the Dome under con­struction, what steps will the band step-down from as they march into the stadium? 

•When 
you attend Notre Dame for six years, and Notre Dame has lost a home game each of those years, what do you do? (Take a hint-LEAVE!). 


This week contains a lot of 
magic. This week leads to the first football game in the new stadium. This week leads to the official' beginning to the Bob Davie era. At the end of this week, some people will see the first Notre Dame football game of their life. At the same time, in some remote part of the coun­try, someone you have never heard of and will never meet will wish more than anything that they were you. Today is the nadir which will crescendo every hour of every day leading to its zenith -game time, which needs to be sustained through­out the contest. It's your team, it's your school, it's your privi­lege. Today is the beginning. 
You can find Kevin Patrick at every one of the pep rallies, at Schlotzky's Deli, or at Moe's Tavern. He is in his third year of the joint Law/MBA program at Notre Dame. !!is column appears every other Monday. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

lmER To THE EDITOR 
When is 
En.oug·h.lt",,,.,
... ·.:.. . .· .. t ..'''''''' 


Enough? 
We all hope that the Generations campaign reaches its stated goals. 

':'''None of us would do any~ thi11g to make that task more difficult. Assume Generations suc­ceeds inraising $190 mil­lion for the endowment of undergraduate scholarships (merit and genera)). The genius{es) investing NO's endowment continue his/her/their brilliant work, but the market levels off. Maybe $190 million will only produce somewhere between $20 ~ $30 million per year. Heck. What we don't know is the percentage of that income that will be plowed back into the endowment and what percentage will actual­ly be used for scholarships. Some of us could experience a motivational surge for Generations if the high level bean counters and movers in ND financial affairs shared more of their think­ing about the reinvest­ment/payout trade-off. How rich do we have to get before we quit reinvest­ing, say, 95% of the endow­ment income? Is a need blind admissions policy our goal. or not? When? 2050? 
A. Edward Manier Professor of Philosophy & History and 
. Philosophy ofSden~, University of · Notre Dame 


• DOONESBURY GARRY TRUDEAU 

• QUOTE Of THE DAY 
''Football is not a contact sport. It's a collision sport. Dancing is a good example of a contact sport." 
-Duffy Daugherty 

Monday, September 1, 1997 
The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 7 
University ofNotre 




esc for 
C E N T E R F 0 R 
oncerns
SOCIAL CONCERNS 
Welcome ... 
I hope you enjoy reviewing the opportuni­ties outlined in these pages. The experiential and service-learning involvements have been extremely valuable for students over many years. Alumni/ae in many different careers are continuing to integrate their ND and CSC expe­riences as they work for a more just and humane world. 
Please explore the challenges open to you, 
and others. Stop in at the Center or give us a 
call! 
(L-R) Rae Harris, Rodney Cohen, Ardis King, Andrea Shappell, Patty Aynn, Fr. Don McNeil,
Fr. Don McNeill, C.S.C. C.S.C., Carol Porter, Jay Brandenberger, Kathy Royer, Kathleen Maas Weigert, Sue Cunningham, Jim Paladino (See Page 4 for further details) 
Executive Director 
EXPERIENTIAL SEMINARS & ACADEMIC COURSES 
All courses and the experiential and service-learning seminars listed on this page are developed and coordinated by Center faculty I staff and the Experiential 
Learning Council. They are offered through these academic departments: Theology, American Studies, Gender Studies, Peace Studies, Government, Psychology 
and Sociology. Information meetings for the courses will be announced. Contact the Center for more details. 
ONE CREDIT COURSES 

THEO 361 Each Fall and Spring break approximately 120 students travel to the Appalachia region of Kentucky and West Virginia. Students spend the week working side by side with t~e people of the mountains. Through physical labor and person-to-person contacts, students experience the cultural richness of the area and begin to understand and analyze social forces there. 
BORDER ISSUES SEMINAR Active exploration of the border region between Mexico and the U.S., examining issues of poverty, international challenges and more. CHURCH AND SOCIAL ACTION THEO 365C 
This course includes a 48-hour immersion into the kind of life most Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students seldom see. Over 358 students made an Urban Plunge during early January 1996. The purpose of the course is to experience injustice, apathy and poverty; to increase awareness of people who are working to improve these situations; and to witness and reflect on ways to address Gospel concerns regarding the oppressed. CULTURAL DIVERSITY THEO 362 I soc 362 This seminar explores the rich cultural heritage of Chicago's ethnic neighborhoods and immigrant tradition. The corresponding problems of urban life and racism also are examined during the semester break experience. ENVIRONMENTAL ISSUES SEMINAR THEO Provides opportunities for students to challenge and deepen their understanding of environmental issues through direct experiential involvements. HOLY CROSS MISSION SEMINARS: COACHELLA I PHOENIX These seminars during the January Break build upon the efforts of Congregation of Holy Cross. L'ARCHE COMMUNITY THE0368 This seminar centers on participation over break in the L'Arche Community (founded by Jean Vanier). Students explore issues of disability through active involvement. LEADERSHIP ISSUES SEMINAR THEO 369 The Leadership Issues Seminar is designed for students working in a leadership capacity promoting community service or social action. 
MEXICO SEMINAR THEO 366 Provides an international service opportunity through a two week immersion (during the last two weeks of May) in Oaxaca, Mexico. MIGRANT EXPERIENCES THEO 368 Offers a unique immersion into the lives of migrant farm workers in Florida during the spring harvest. Students work in the fields, live with migrant families, and assist agencies that serve workers. WASHINGTON SEMINAR THEO 363 I GOVT 496 
Approximately 22 students travel each semester break to the nation's capital to explore crucial issues of the day from a variety of perspectives. This year's focus is environmental concerns. In Washington, students meet with the decision-makers, members of congress, non-governmental organizations and church leaders. On-campus preparation, on-site experience and follow-up reflection combine to create a unique learning oppor­tunity. 
THREE CREDIT COURSES 
In addition to the many seminars graded (SIU), there are multidisciplinary courses by Center faculty in various departments. Courses include reading and reflection on issues raised by service experiences and study and analysis of contemporary issues of justice and peace. 
SUE CUNNINGHAM, DON McNEILL, C.S.C., & KATHLEEN MASS WEIGERT, PH.D.  
Reflections on Service (Summer Service Projects)  THEO 360  
DoN McNEILL, C.S.C., PH.D. AND ANDREA SMITH SHAPPELL  
Theology and Community Service  THEO 273  
Theology and Social Ministry  THEO 274  
JAY BRANDENBERGER, PH.D.  
Children and Poverty: Developmental Implications  PSY 405 I 594B  
Leadership and Social Responsibility  PSY 407 I SOCIAMST/IIPSIHESB  
KATHLEEN MASS WEIGERT, PH.D.  
Introduction to Peace Studies  liPS 320  
Power and Change in America  AMST493  

PEACE AND JUSTICE PROGRAMMING The Center sponsors or co-sponsors a variety of creative peace and justice programs throughout the year, including films, panels, invited speak­ers and performing arts. Each opportunity focuses on an important issue of social concern (e.g., racism, poverty, the environment). POST-GRADUATE SERVICE OPPORTUNITIES Workshops, seminars and other meetings enable seniors to consider the integration of service into their chosen careers and/or the advantages of a year or two of volunteer service, e.g., Peace Corps, Holy Cross Associates. Contact Andrea Smith Shappell (631-5293). ADDITIONAL EXPERIENTIAL LEARNING OPPORTUNITIES ... include, as resources allow, service-learning trips to the rural south, and to Holy Cross Mission sites in the U.S., Mexico, and Africa. Student leadership plays a key role in developing unique learning opportunities. 

~ '· • ~ ~ -~ ~ I " -{ • -­
Monday, September 1 , 1997 
page 8 The Observer· PAID ADVERTISEMENT 
CSC GROUPS AND SOUTH BEND COMMUNIT, 
SERVICE AND SOCIAL ACTION GROUPS LEGEND Adult Literacy I Hunger Concerns 9 Adult-Older 2 
Medical 10 Children-Young 3 Multi-Service Groups II Criminal Justice 4 Peace and Justice Issues 12 
''for a more just and h 
Cultural Issues 5 Tutoring 13 Disability Services 6 Women's Concerns 14 Environment 7 One Time Service Opportunities 15 Housing and Homelessness 8 Community Agency Seeking Volunteers * 
CENTER-RELATED GROUPS 
AND COMMUNITY AGENCIES 10,* AIDS MINISTRIES CoMMITTEE I AIDS ASSIST 10,* AMERICAN CANCER SOCIETY 4,12 AMNESTY INTERNATIONAL 
11 ARNOLD AIR SOCIETY 
10,* CHAPIN STREET HEALTH CENTER 15,* CHRISTMAS IN APRIL 3,11,13 CIRCLE K INTERNATIONAL 6,* CORVILLA, INC. 3,13 CouNCIL FOR FuN AND LEARN 
6 COUNCIL FOR THE RETARDED I ,4,15 DISMAS HOUSE 3,13,* EL BUEN VECINO 
14 FEMINISTS FOR LIFE 1 0 FIRST AID SERVICES TEAM 
7,9 FooDSHARE II,* GOODWILL INDUSTRIES OF MICHIANA 8,15 HABITAT FOR HUMANITY 

2,* HEALTHWIN 5,11 HISPANIC AMERICAN ORGANIZATIONS 14,* HOME MANAGEMENT SERVICES 
8,* HOPE RESCUE MISSION 3, I 0 HUGS (Helpful Undergraduate Students) 3,* JUNIOR ACHIEVEMENT OF MICHIANA 5,13 LA CASA DE AMISTAD 

6 LOGAN VOLUNTEERS 
3,6,* MADISON CENTER 
5 MANATIAL 1 0 MEMORIAL HOSPITAL MEDICAL EXPLORERS 
DESCRIPTION OF VOLUNTEER OPPORTUNITIES 
Give social support to individuals who are HIV+ by providmg support and assistance with office tasks. Organize on-campus awareness raising and fund-raising events. For letter writing, petition signing, special campaign work, and informal discussions about human rights issues worldwide. Members of a national coli ·on of Air Force ROTC 

·.: .:: ~ :·;·. :. . . . ~. ·:· ·. : . : . ·. . . : : .. : : . . . ..: . . . . . j:.: Provide shared time and friendship between a student and a child. Assist with tutoring, health and recreation programs for ages 5 through 18. with the and cleanin 
Reach out to the Hispanic community of South Bend through a variety of service activities, educational programs, and cultural awl Work in many areas in the Center-manage the front desk, help with the serving of meals, work with the children and families anc: Spend time once a week with the children who live at the CFH. This might include organizing field trips and doing art and craft 1 Tutor adults from 9:30-11 :30 Monday through Thursday mornings at the Center for Basic Learning Skills in South Bend. Assist in providing clinic health services for those who are medically indigent. Also to work with young girls in the Slice of Life I Upgrade neighborhood homes and lift residents' spirits Work on a variety of service activities including work with children and neighborhood clean up. Develop one-to-one relationships with Corvilla residents. Corvilla 'is a home for persons with mental retardation Work with learning disabled children every Saturday morning helping them to meet the specific goals and objectives of the prog• Individual Volunteers to work with children and adults with developmental disabilities Volunteers are needed to cook for the residents on week nights. Students are also needed to live at Dismas House Tutor people in English and help them study for their high school equivalency. They also help with child care and work with mod 

Work to educate the community about life issues such as abortion and capital punishment especially from the point of view of wo Provide coverage for inter-hall sports, concerts, home football games, AnTostal, Keenan Review, campus runs, and any other NDI! Volunteers needed to deliver, in groups of four or five, the leftover food from the campus dining halls to the Center for the Hornell Help with half-price sales at Goodwill stores. Work on construction crews, donate materials, and provide meals for the work nr.-.......~ 
Wotk ~ially iiinur8i&.as · · 
Make weekly visits to patients on a one-to-one basis. Help the ND community understand and celebrate the Hispanic American culture. Volunteers serve the Hispanic Community in 91 Help with individual counseling for women in home management, finances, etc. They are also needed to help with child care. Serve meals to persons who are homeless and destitute, assist with the maintenance of the facility, and visit residents on a one-to"' Work with the Memorial Hospital Pediatric Intensive Care Unit. Teach three different programs at area schools: Project Business, The Basics of Business, Economics of Staying in School. 
Tutor at La Casa after school. 

Assist with organizing games and doing arts and crafts projects with and for Logan Center clients. Volunteers needed for the Adolescent Day treatment program which assists emotionally handicapped adolescents to adapt to a non -and Children and Adolescent Tutoring. Students who are trained as mentors to hispanic young people ages 8 -15. Work with staff at Memorial Hospital and assist with medical procedures. 

10 NOTRE DAME HOSPICE CENTER 
8,15,* ST. VINCENT DE PAUL 4,10 SADD 14 SAIM (STUDENTS FOR INCLUSIVE MINISTRY) 8,15,* SALVATION ARMY 7 SEA (STUDENTS FOR ENVIRONMENTAL ACTION) 
4,*SEX OFFENSE SERVICES (SOS) 11 SILVER WINGS 1,* SoUTH BEND COMMUNITY SCHOOLS ADULT EDUCATION 3,11,13,* SOUTH BEND HERITAGE FOUNDATION 13 STEP (STUDENT TUTORIAL EDUCATION PROGRAM) 
7,12 STUDENTS FOR RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS 6 SUPERSIBS 3,13 VoLUNTEERS FOR YouTH 
Visit terminally ill patients in their homes. 
Tutor at a variety of centers twice a week for a one hour period each time. 
Work on a one-to-one basis with children from three to 19 on a variety of activities. 
Work individually with adult students who are studying for their GED or simply learning literacy skills. After school program for elementary age children. Visit the South Bend Juvenile Facility one night a week and to spend an hour with a resident completing work or talking about co Christmas Party and a Picnic in the Spring which is provided by STEP and the Facility. Business students who are interested in assisting not for profit organizations in South Bend using their business expertise. Work with children who have siblings with disabilities. 

Assist in welcoming pregnant women and couples and beginning the process of assisting them to gather the resources that they ru: Provide assistance to the women of Notre Dame with issues and problems that are particularly acute for women, such as rape and 
Raise'awarenessand support'for thepoor and hungry 10:lli¥ South Bendoommunityan<l'it~ td'wo'Hc:k V9lunteer8'aim'io gJt Assist 'iit a tempQfary shelter care faciJitfworking with ·youths in cns1s7~·:~;wab. :::· 'B1~1'!f&~" ~M~fk·-· 'u'":..;..,:.' u.ti!lllf 'I Listen, provide transportation, tutor, work with children and to perform other important services. 


272-0100  
lluth Bend through work with neighborhood centers and a local parish.  
233-3486  
•  basis  288-4842  
Lisa Shoemaker-634-1332  




, I ­
' \ -\ 
• • ' ' 1 ~ \ \ \ : ) I \ \ • 
I \ 1 \ ' \ I ~ \ \ ' \ \ \ \ \ 
Monday, September 1, 1997 
The Observer· PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 9 
-~ 
r SERVING AND LEARNING TOGETHE,R 
;umane world" 
NYSP '97 
AGENCY _ PHONE 
234-2870 234-4097 

CONTA( 'T NAMES ­
Kathy Easton; Klarissa Garza Rusty Chiappetta -634-2763 Scott Leaman -634-1942 


232-9958 232-2048 289-0333 


•ness projects. ltrutors and friends, work with the facilities at the Center or help with administrative and organizational tasks. ·activities. Usually weekends 
234-3938 lltgram. 289-7662 
289-9779 
233-8522 
•n. 

IMC activity that requests the team's service. .._ and Hope Rescue Mission in South Bend. 
289-4831 rmal school and community life. Other programs include Sex Offense Services, Children's Day Treatment 234-0061 
233-0165 
235-9675 234-2101 
284-9588 

·1 
Jessica Balster -634-3880 Craig VanMeter Rev. Mike Mather 
Megan Ferstenfeld-634-3849 Matt Towey -282-8700 Holly Gnat Andrew Payne Michelle Peters 

I 
i
Padmaja ltikala -634-3027 

·I 
i 
Maria Kazmerck 
Linea Palmisano -634-0531 


Caly Nguyen -631-0782 Jennifer Atler 

' ~ 
Jeremy Scarlett Chris Sumner -634-1567 
Kathryn Hibey -634-1540 


272-9100 

:e. 
1 Bend family through the Salvation Army. 233-9471 a&re Dame Environmental Task Force and environmental 
oostructive topics. The residents are also given a Shannon Glynn -634-0765 
Jessie Whitaker -631-3211 Jeff Wincko -634-1517 Tom Rose-634-2092 
Emily Todd -634-4003 


a ; 4 iS 2 a a ..Z, , A £§ 
page 10 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT Monday, September 1, 1997 

Hall Community Service and Liturgical Commissioners at August 1997 retreat 
COMMUNITY SERVICE COMMISSIONERS 
Alumni 
,_ 
Badin 
Breen-Phillips 
Carroll 
Cavanaugh 
Farley 
Fisher 
Howard 
Keenan 
Knott 
Lewis 
Lyons 
McGlinn 

.J_ 
Morrissey Pangborn Pasquerilla East 
Siegfried 
Sorin Hall Stanford 
Walsh 
Welsh 
Zahm 

1997-98  
Room  Phone  
Morgan Farmer  247  1142  
Kristen Bogner  251  3944  
Alyssa Stark  
Katie Donohoe  245  1295  
Ann Smith  245  1295  
Alfred Vargas  405  4295  
Janinee Kirkowski  132  2384  
Lorna Sanchez  327  4273  
Nicole Varner  327  4273  
John Fiorenza  3074  
Anne Hosinski  133  2586  
Mike Evangelist  229  3283  
John Gordon  346  3348  
Joe Hauser  428  3382  
Joel Nagle  138  3252  
Karl Kurple  333  4975  
Jennifer Glodek  IliA  4633  
Erin Gaffney  2939  
Elizabeth Grossman  202  2996  
Maryanne Garvie  122  1249  
John Infranca  411  3639  
Jennifer Bryan  327  2325  
Anna B. Gonzalez  608  3724  
Kathryn McGann  
Suzanne Tompkins  709  4311  
Christina Tonin  709  4311  
Larry Ward  423  4892  
Michael Bechtel  436  4900  
Mike Merrick  319  2213  
Andrew Herman  303  2052  
Kevin P. Kiefer  423  1999  
Katrina Ten Eyck  123  2676  
Pauline Noonan  236  0574  
Kevin Finnerty  303  4662  
David Martin  257  1190  
Tony McCanta  259  0918  

CENTER STAFF DIRECTORY 
http://www.nd.edu/-ndcntrsc 631-5293 (phone) 631-4171 (FAX) 

Jay Brandenberger, Director, Experiential Learning and Justice Education Jay.W.Brandenberger.l @nd.edu Rodney Cohen, Director, Urban Plunge and Outreach Development Rodney.T.Cohen.9@nd.edu Sue Cunningham, Director, Summer Service Project and Alumnilae Relations 
Sue.C.Cunningham.5@ nd.edu  
Patty Flynn, StaffAssistant, Receptionist  Patricia.M.Flynn.3@nd.edu  
Ardis King, Senior StaffAssistant  Ardis.J.King.2@nd.edu  
Don McNeill, CSC, Executive Director  Donald.P.McNeill.l @nd.edu  

Jim Paladino, Associate Director, Administration and Resources 
James.Paladino.1 @nd.edu Carol Porter, Senior Staff Assistant Carol.A.Porter.4@nd.edu Kathy Royer, Director, Community Partnerships and Service Learning 
Kathleen.Royer.l @nd.edu Andrea Smith Shappell, Director, Senior Year Transition Programs Andrea.L.Shappell.l @nd.edu Kathleen Maas Weigert, Associate Director, Academic Affairs and Research Kathleen.M. Weigert.2@ nd.edu David Hay, Ph.D., Research Coordinator, with South Bend Heritage Foundation David.L.Hay.l @nd.edu Jessie Whitaker, M.S.A., Education Coordinator, with South Bend Heritage Foundation Jessie.A.Whitaker.l @nd.edu 
FACULTY FELLOWS / LIAISONS John Borkowski Faculty Fellow, Psychology Michael Etzel Faculty Fellow, Marketing Roger Skurski Faculty Liaison, College of Arts and Letters Edward Trubac Faculty Liaison, College of Business Administration James Taylor Faculty Liaison, College of Engineering Anthony Trozzolo Faculty Liaison, College of Science Teresa Godwin Phelps Faculty Liaison, Law School 
SERVICE LEARNING COORDINATORS The Center for Social Concerns has a special partnership with seven agencies in South Bend . Each of these agencies has a person identified who can help students become involved in meaningful ways with their agency. The following is a list of the Service Learning 
Coordinators and their agencies. 
Kathy Eaton 
Marcia Brown-Humphrey 
Rosie McDowell 
Michelle Peters 
Eva Sanchez 
Tanya Sexton 
Matt Towey 
Jessie Whitaker 
AIDS Ministries/ AIDS Assist Northeast Neighborhood Center Logan Center Chapin Street Clinic La Casa de Amistad South Bend Community Schools Center for the Homeless South Bend Heritage Foundation 234-2870; 232-2872 (fax) 235-9675; 235-9677 (fax) 289-4831; 234-2075 (fax) 289-7662; 289-4231 (fax) 233-2120; 233-2234 (fax) 631-9405; 631-4171 (fax) 282-8700; 287-5023 (fax) 631-3211; 631-5854 (fax) 
CENTER HOSPITALITY INCLUDES: A coffee house ... A large multi-purpose room •.. Seminar rooms ... A resource room ... A library ... A reflection room ... Vehicles 
These facilities are available for use by approved student and com munity groups. Contact the Center receptionist (631-5293) to reserve rooms for lectures, films, liturgies, meals, and other gath­erings and to inquire about vehicle use. 
THE FACULTY AND CENTER AcTIVITIES The special focus of our opportunities designed for faculty during the 1997-1998 academic year will be on "service learning" and the ways in which it can be incorporated into courses and research, through one-on-one consultations, a "Service Learning Fair," and visits to Summer Service Program sites in Chicago and South Bend. Faculty will also have the opportunity to participate with students in the Social Concerns Seminar: Appalachia over fall and spring breaks. And this year we begin a research-education relationship with the South Bend Heritage Foundation where the role of faculty will be key. Faculty are a vital resource to the CSC as well. They serve as facil­itators for the course The Church and Social Action ("Urban Plunge"), opening their homes for a one-evening gathering to pro­vide students with an occasion to reflect on and extend their analy­sis of the city experience. They are speakers for our various cross­listed experiential learning courses, advisors to the service and social action groups, and offer directed readings on related social concerns topics. Faculty interested in getting involved in any of these opportunities are encouraged to contact Dr. Kathleen Maas Weigert (phone: 631­5319 or e-mail: Kathleen.M.Weigert.2@nd.edu). 
Center Assodatc Uircctnr l'or Academic All'airs and Rt•scarch, Kathleen \laa~ \\ei~o:t·rt \\ilh nc\H'!;t Ct•ntu Fal·ult} hllo\\ and :\larkl·lin~: Prnressor Mike Ellcl, 

~ ... -~~~~~~~~~~~-------------------------------------­





CCENT 
Monday, September 1, 1997 page 11 
• AT THE VIDEO STORE 
Revisiting Hannibal Lector 

By JOSHUA BECK 
Accent Film Criric 
F
rom the beginning of the film "Manhunter" with its ominous and foreboding music to its inevitable fiery conclusion, the frequent moviegoer is bothered by one question: where has he seen this before? The answer, though somewhat complex, may seem rather simple in nature. The movie, made in 1984 and directed by Michael Mann, was and still remains some­what unknown, though the premise is readily recognizable to the avid movie fan. The film is based on the book "The Red Dragon," written by Thomas Harris, which deals with the exploits of a maniacal serial killer named Hannibal Lector and the man named Will Graham who painfully brings him to justice. Harris' sequel to "The Red Dragon," follow­ing in the footsteps of the first book, was transformed into a big-screen blockbuster which also followed the life of Lector. This movie was entitled "The Silence of the Lambs." While "Manhunter" cannot justly be considered a prequel to the more recent film, the one thread that does connect them is the main character: the cannibalistic killer Hannibal Lector. 
Though readily available for rent and for sale, "Manhunter" is still for the most part unknown, and perhaps for good reason. The main attractions that so manipulate movie­goers are unseen in the initial representation of the film. The list of actors, though brim­ming with impeccable ability, is relatively subtle. The film stars William Petersen as the forensics expert who is forced out of retirement to catch a serial killer known only as the Tooth Fairy because of the bite marks on his victims. Brian Cox is cast as the cun­ningly manipulative Leetor. Dennis Farina as the brutish homicide detective, and Joan Allen as the Tooth Fairy's handicapped love interest. Michael Mann, who has directed some brilliant movies of late with "Heat'' and the most recent version of "The Last of the Mohicans," had at that point some minor films. His biggest credit is the long-running television series "Miami Vice." But aside from its obvious lack of big-name actors and an extraordinarily popular director, "Manhunter" did succeed in creating an entirely new genre of film: the analytical crime drama in which the protagonist must endure a truly excruciating process of cap­turing an insane serial killer. 
A particularly absorbing aspect of the film which keeps the viewer riveted is the dualis­tic nature of the main protagonist, the foren­sics expert \\'ill Graham. From the begin­ning, he finds himself drawn into the nev­erending labyrinth of the Tooth Fairy's insane mind. To finally locate and capture him, he must not only look at the aftermath of the killings and the evidence left behind, he must become the killer and think like him to figure his next move. He requests the assistance of Hannibal Lector, now locked up in a mental institution, to help him in his quest. Although this particular venture back­fires on Graham later in the film, Lector is constantly there to offer clues as to who this killer might be, making Graham realize hid­den truths about himself as well as the killer. 
While the film is not overflowing with action, the intensity of the scenes and the forcefulness of the music keep the viewer stuck to his seat throughout the film's entire­ty. Some of the best scenes occur when Graham, played brilliantly by Petersen, sits alone in his hotel room, going over evidence and "talking" to the Tooth Fairy so he can figure out why he does what he does. The surprising element of this film is that it is not so much about the life of Hannibal Lector as it is about the transformation of the weary Graham, who at first is reluctant to help search for the killer but then finds himself becoming more and more involved until he and the culprit are thinking along the same lines. The film is truly an insight into the capabilities and limits of one man to deci­pher another's psyche and use it to his· advantage. 
While the film may not seem as striking or as glittering as "The Silence of the Lambs," it certainly achieves its goal of shocking the moviegoer and literally knocking him into the back of his seat as if with invisible hands. This is exhibited in a chilling scene shortly after the beginning of the film when Graham steps into the house which was the Tooth Fairy's last crime scene. Stepping into the bedroom and turning the light on, the bright red blood which stains the bed, the walls, and the floor is readily apparent to the view­er. In a way, it is a symbol of what the movie is all about: Will Graham pursuing an invisi­ble killer, one that is only known by what he leaves behind. In the end, this movie achieves everything that it sets out to accom­plish: to introduce the insane Lector. to showcase Graham's slow transformation into what he chases, and to literally spellbind the viewer with its intensity and fast-paced plot. 
The acting is enjoyable, particularly that of the sly, smooth-talking Lector as portrayed by Brian Cox. Joan Allen, who recently was nominated for an Academy Award in "The Crucible" and acted in the summer block­buster "Face/Off," is exceptionally good as the blind love of the Tooth Fairy. Finally, William Petersen himself gives a dazzling performance as the confident yet troubled hero Graham. Michael Mann, beginning a trend of stylistic dramas, showcases his tal­ent in shocking us yet drawing the line in just the right places. Surprisingly, in many ways "Manhunter" is just as good if not bet­ter than its sequel, and that above all else should make it a must-see for everyone who enjoys a truly fascinating crime drama. 


2. 
Money Talks 

3. 
Air Force One . Mimic 


5. 
Conspiracy Theory 

6. 
Cop Land 

7. 
Event Horizon 

8. 
Leave it to Beaver 

9. 
George of the Jungle 

10. 
Men in Black 


source: Associated Press 
cream 
2. 
Absolute Power 

3. 
Donnie Brasco 

4. 
Sling Blade 

5. 
Private Parts 

6. 
Metro 

7. 
The Relic 


9. 
Mars Attacks 

10. 
Jungle 2 Jungle 


source: Billboard Magazine 

• SOAP OPERA UPDATE 
General Hospital 

By GENEVIEVE MORRILL Accent General Hospital Correspondent 
Welcome back "General Hospital" fans, did you keep up with the trials and tribulations of our "other family" in the Port over the summer holiday? Well let's look in and see what they're all up to, shall we? 
Perennial star"crossed lovers Brenda and Sonny finally seem to be hetlded down the aisle. of course to get there they'll have to climb oy~~ the emotionally devastated men and women ttu~y·ve left behind. not to mention all the corpses...what's the body.count by now? Sonny fantasizes that Brenda will be shot on their wedding night. and realizes. the only way for them to be safe is to disappear. Brenda agrees, but promises not to tell anyone. She plans the wed­ding. asking Edwardt() give her away and Nedto be her maid of J}~P~t;..~nd•to PM¥~-~· Meanwbile·Sonnytells Jason th~r~ are two 
optlon~; once ht:f'a.Jld Bren leave: run With them or becom~ the new GQdfather,.. Monica and Alan are going to love thatrJason's response? Kiss the rlng, he's in! · 
FeliCia is spending. quality time with her grandma in Texas. and C<?~idering leaving .th~•· girls there so that she can go to Africa and se~~helove ofhe("lif~2We11Tom~asotberideas and he sends her a ~[).~~...relicia"lett~r !rom Africa;~·o{.!P~!.··Couldn't.he ..•at..•~~~st. call? ~~~~;$ the pet~pn~ t()uch? Sendin!fthe girls out to pl~y, as shealways 'does, (wh~t aparenting style. go out and play anq·we·u se~ yarirrsix monthslMaxie goes to a gully and digs up an artifact. Kid, if y9u•re so bored you're grave robbing. you know it's time to go h~p}c t() school. \'\!hen Mac hears how depressed his best buddy is, he lj6p$~a plane to(f~~as to cheer her up,

frmce· Hottle.·l)r.·as his family likes to· call him. Nikolas••.decides to m()y~hack to the. Islafid. Both are overjoyed, but shocked and dis­ln;~yeq.by Nik's (}esite to attend a p~lic nigh school! The horror! But Stefan does rewt+!d Kathy • with•a little tonsil mass«lg~ .and the P[Omise of anintimate evening. When $tefan returns hom~ •• George, p,l"ompted by Alexis,· reveals that there is a way that Kristin and Natasha.could have escaped Helena.. So who's Natash a, Katharine, Miranda or Alexis? . ... .· . 
Nikolas and.Sarahgrow closer. he•even .. "reads" her mind. Hey .. ·~!k.r ~nyou.flgu~¢pu~. what's on.my• rnind?. ~ucky .. is.inpensed that 
Sar~l;i likes· Nik?~~~;c<Jn,vinced {:a$sa.(}in~Jlas .. an agen<f~· lie does, they're called. hormones•• Elizabeth can't iinage why Sarahlikes Nik over Lucky and Waits to make trouble. Later she overhears Lucky 
say the Cassadines killed Steve. A dilemma for the brat: tell Sarah and watch her run into Lucky's scrawny arms or keep quiet and try to win Lucky herself. I wish the Tin Man would take out Elizabeth, Emily, Sarah. Luck)'. and Keeshawhile he·s in town. 
·After she drug_ged A.J. into a stupo~ and doused him w.ith vodka, Carly is·suddenly overcome by a consctence. She follows h1m around town begging him not to drink. saying his slip is her fault. Darn right! A.J. on the other hand, is determined to be his own whipping boy. Kinky. Finally after A.J. cries more then most women do at weddings, he decides to leave town for rehab. Carly is thrilled that both her plans worked: .A.J/s a mess and Tony's picking out dates. One problem, Mick the Bartender wants more money. 
Now that V's broke. she convinces Mac to let her work at the 01.ttback. There she soon annoys the customers as much as she does me and is fired. Then Jax hires her on a prDbationary period as his 
· assistant. My God man, are you mad! Where is the take charge, suf~ fer no idiots manofthe world we know and love? Have the pod peo­ple taken Jax or are the writers on drugs? Stay tuned and hope for the best... 
(f(fnevieve Morrill can be reached at morr8584@saintmarys.edu. 
• 



~crnte~: 

Xovie critics, soetp oper\1 corre­spon~ents, music critics, coptf rottors; em()Jeqture writers for the o\ccelftsection. ~ intereste() _p(eru;e~c2(( Joe9 or o\sfi(eigfi crt 1­
.:-:;::-:-:-_ 

4540.~L:Pai~ positions an()jo6 perks tt\lcti(a6(e. 
... 
SW!LZO 2 X !bi!UU& 2 L !. E£ s au ceca_
F a ;a .a: * i .•iii&! U*J 4W: i#Z!ti!!L:CUC =a ;a -¥* • _a-__kAC: s a p 
' 
page 12 The Obser\rer • SPORTS Monday, September 1, 1997 
• MEN's SOCCER 

Irish struggle to find net, settle for a tie at Pittsburgh 
By KAREN SEYMOUR 
Sports W ricer 
Defense. While offense wins games, defense wins titles, and if that is true, the Notre Dame men's soccer team has nothing to fear for the upcoming season. Their opening game against Pittsburgh on Friday did not prove to be an auspicious start; however, the 0-0 tie is a respectable beginning. 
Although they were outshot 8­
7. the Irish played extremely tough in the backfield, led by goalie Greg Velho. His past histo­ry of playing strong during key situations continued during Friday's game as he saved two out of three consecutive shots on goal which occurred merely two minutes into overtime. 

"Since overtime is a sudden death position, because the game is over if someone scores, a lot of tension is added to the situation," said Velho. "We had good chances to score, but it didn't happen." 
Sophomores Matt McNew and Alan Woods also figured heavily into the defense of the game, returning as starters to the back­field. While McNew contributes physical size and strength to this area of the field, Woods is a strong one-on-one defender. 
The absences of co-captain Ryan Turner and Bill Savarino, due to team violations, were also felt. Turner is the leading scorer, returning this year after All­American Tony Capasso graduat­ed. As a team, the men have pulled together to compensate for these losses. A deep pool of talent to draw from has helped the team put on a strong showing instead of dwelling on their loss­es. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. 
Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 

Classifieds 

VOLUNTEERS NEEDED  ****INTERESTED IN MAKING  USED TEXT BOOKS FOR SALE ­ IRISH FANS NEED 2 TICKETS  FOR SALE  
NOTICES  The Early Childhood Development Center, located at Saint Mary's  EXTRA MONEY**** LARGE PHYSICAL THERAPY  30%-40% DISCOUNTS. PANDORA'S BOOKSTORE  FOR NO-STANFORD. CALL RICK AT 209-379-2249.  N.D. G.A.'S  
College and the University of Notre  PRACTICE LOOKING FOR STU­ 808 HOWARD STREET  
Bed and Breakfast for NO games.  Dame is looking for volunteers who  DENTS TO MAKE  DOES YOUR FAMILY OR  271-9412.  
Private home 2 miles from stadium.  enjoy young children. If you would  FOLLOW-UP PHONE CALLS TO  86Mazda 626 runs good. New tires,  FRIENDS NEED A PLACE TO  
Private baths.  be interested in spending 2 hours a  SEE HOW OUR PATIENTS ARE  exh, alter, brakes. $2200 obo. Chris  STAY FOR THE MICHIGAN  WANTED N D G A'S  
272-9471  week reading children's books,  DOING.  x1512.  STATE GAME (9/20)? I HAVE 3  TO ALL HOME GAMES  
building with blocks, and singing  FILING & COMPUTOR ENTRY  EXTRA ROOMS AVAILABLE AT  271 1526  
Need spending money? I'm look·  songs with children, please call  ALSO AVAILABLE. FLEXIBLE  THE RESIDENCE INN ON NILES  
ing for responsible, early risers to  Thayer Kramer at 631-3344  HOURS.  Contemporary lakefront home for  AVE. APPROX. 5 MIN. FROM  
deliver newspapers. There's a $15  (ECDC-ND) or Cindy Hestad at  CALL GERARD OR DOUG NOW!  sale on Lake Michigan, 1/2 acre,  CAMPUS. GREAT DEAL'!! FOR  I need 1 or 2 GAs for the Georgia  
bonus for the first week. Call Drew  284-4693 (ECDC-SMC).  ***233-5754***  $795,000. Call Chuck Ruth at 1­ MORE INFO. CALL KESHA AT  Tech and/or the Michigan State  
at 4-0601.  Please join our fun filled days.  888-225-RUTH.  634-1482.  game!!!  
Tami's Typing Service.  WANT TO EARN SOME EXTRA  FOR RENT  New Twin Size Bed $80 Computer  Senior ticket booklet 4 sale  Please call Amy at 810-355-9140.  
Will P/U & deliver.  $$BY CARING FOR THREE  Desk $20 634-4243  50 yd. line  
256-9850.  ADORABLE CHILDREN? NEED  WALK TO CAMPUS  Make me an offer  $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$  
TUES. WED, OR FRI A.M.  2-5 BEDROOM HOMES  FOR SALE: A custom crafted,  634-3314  
Shamrock Network Design, an  CALL 287-9669.  $195/PERSON  varnished, solid oak-wood  STUDENT FOOTBALL TICKET  
Internet marketing firm based in  232-2595  FUTON w/ cover. Sits as a  For Sale:  CERTIFICATE WANTED!!!  
South Bend, has full, part-time, and  BABYSITTER WANTED FOR  couch and folds into a double  Senior Ticket Booklet  CALL PAUL@ 233-1741  
internship positions available.  ALL HOME FOOTBALL GAMES  IrS NOT TOO LATE- sized bed. Call Greg Leone @  To Best Offer  
Areas include Internet technology,  CALL 2339728.  A newly remodeled 5 bedroom  272·0915. Priced at $750.00.  Call: 243-2645  $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$  
marketing. graphic design, and  house is still available to rent for  
accounting. Contact  ! ATHLETE'S DREAM!  the fall semester. 2 full baths,  #######################  
paul@snd.com or call 234-SND1  Have you always wanted a pro ath­ washers and dryer, huge rec room,  88 Pontiac Grand Am/99,000 mi..  2 Georgia Tech  GEORGIA TECH GA's WANTED!!!  
lete's income? Rapidly growing  security system. Call now to take a  Black 2-dr with Cassette/Radio,  STUDENTTix  Paul233-1741  
health and nutrient co.  look 277-0636.  air.cond., new trans., and good  for sale  
Part-time sales/marketing position  is expanding locally. No phone  exterior/interior. Call Ray @ 232­ call Jenny @ 687-8435  I have 2 Georgia Tech GA's. Will  
available with eduiNFO, a South  interviews. 271-0912 ext 10  AVAILABLE!  5610.  #######################  exchange for 2 USC GA's. Call Rob  
Bend Internet company. Contact  2BRM, 1 1/2 BA, full bsmt, priv ..  h(?14)351-6775  
Paul (neuner@snd.com or 246­0117) ILOST & FOUNDI  STUDENTS! Want to make 1·2k average monthly? Expanding International sports nutrient co.  deck. 711 E. Washington. $500 mo. Dep nego, lease term nego. 288­3410  TICKETS I NEED GA TIXS ALL ND HOME GAMES.272-6551  FOR SALE: MARRIED STUD TIX BOOKS 277-3864 S.T. books avail. Leave message @ 271-1567  w(214)855-1180. PERSONAL  
Looking for motivated students  Bd & Brit all football weekends  FREE FACIAL & MKOVR  
A PAIR OF RED PRESCRIPTION  looking for flexible hours. No  near campus call 219-272-5989  NO FAN NEEDS TICKET FOR  NEEDED: 1 Georgia Tech ticket  w/ Mary Kay Call Margrette  
SUNGLASSES FOUND IN JULY  p;hone interviews. 271-0912  11/22 GAME WITH WV. PLEASE  Will pay $$! Call Brian 4-1680  2845099  
WHILE WALKING AROUND ST.  ext11  SEASONS INN Bed & Breakfast  CALL 304/465-0775. WILL PAY  
JOSEPH LAKE ON ND CAMPUS.  home.  FOR CALL.  I need 2 GA's for G'Tech game.  
COME IN TO THE OBSERVER  FLY 4 FUN!  ROOMS AVAILABLE  Matt X1611  O·C FOOTBALL? CALL ANNE  
OFFICE AT 314 LAFORTUNE OR  If you enjoy working with  Football weekends  NEED: 2 tix-Mich. State game­ @ 243-4937  
CALL  people, love to travel, and enjoy  219-674-0270  Sept. 20. Will pay $$. Call Paul­ Need 2 GT Tix  
631-7471 & ASK FOR SHIRLEY.  earning top $$ call 243-4946  (773)525-9373.  Call Rob 271-6005  
SEASONS INN  WVFI-640 AM NEEDS YOU!!!!!  
WANTED  SPORTS MINDED? Are you into the health & fitness  Welcomes Motorhomes/Campers of all sizes.  NEED GEORGIA TECH TICKETS CALL AMY: 616-473-5825  Married Student Tickets for Sale. Call219·2736124  WVFI is looking for students inter­ested in radio broadcasting.  
fields? we're looking for team  Spacious lots available.  after 6pm.  If you have a knack for the news, a  
PART-TIME WORK  players to help with our  Reserve Now 219-674-0270.  WILL BUY 2 GA TX 4 GA TECH  nose for sports, or just a love for  
Local company filling 15  expanding company. 243-4947  (312)744-8794  great new music, and would be  
openings by sept. 7. Earn  ROOMS IN PRIVATE HOME FOR  interested in participating as a disc  
$10.25 starting. Flexible hours  Student Assistant  FOOTBALL WEEKENDS AND  NEED 2 BOSTON COLLEGE  I NEED 4 TICKETS TO MICHIGAN  jockey I on-air personality, then  
around classes. 282·2357  to the Computer Systems Mgr.  OTHER ND-SMC EVENTS.  TICKETS (904)398-6146  ST. CALL MICHELLE AT 4-2377  stop by the wvfi table at activities  
The Graduate School  VERY CLOSE TO CAMPUS-5  night, Tuesday, September 2nd.  
PHONE RECEPTIONIST  MIN. DRIVE OR 15-20 MIN. WALK.  $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$  TRADE ANY HOME GAME GA TIX  Applications are due on Thursday,  
Part-time afternoons. $5/hr. 2-3  243-0658.  NEED 2 GA TICKETS  (SAVE USE) FOR MSU  September 4th. Don't miss out!  
days per week. Call 12-1 pm 282­ Position requires extensive  TO BOSTON COLLEGE  (517)337 -2384  
2341.  Macintosh experience,  THAT PRETTY PLACE, Bed and  (904 )398-6146  Hey Court, hope you read this, if  
preferably in a computer cluster.  Breakfast Inn has space available  $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$  HAVE TIX ALL GAMES-TRADE  not I'll just put it in again tomorrow  
Knowledge of MacOS, Word,  for football/parent wknds. 5 Rooms  OR SALE  until you do. Have a good day and  
PART TIME CUSTOMER RELA·  Excel, Eudora, Web, FileMaker,  with private baths, $70-$90,  MIKE 612-937-2247  thanks for inviting me to see Nikki.  
TIONS  PageMaker, and PowerPoint  Middlebury, 30 miles froru campus.  
On-Call positions available  helpful. Work 15-20 hours per  Toll Road, Exit #107,  NEED 3  Looking for GA's to Any & All  ATTENTION: GAY, LESBIAN,  
evenings 5-9 Mon.-Fri. and/or 10­ week. Pay: $9,000 academic·  1-800-418-9487.  GA. TECH TX  NO Games!  and BISEXUAL STUDENTS,  
6:30 on weekends. Our busy call  year stipend, or hourly rate.  (GA or student)  Will Beat Any Offer!  FACUL TV and STAFF:  
center is looking for candidates with  NICE FURNISHED HOUSE  will pay$$$  Will Trade Any Home Game for  
excellent phone skills and a desire  NORTH OF ND GOOD NEIGH­ please call Justin  LSU. Call 634-4872  New Year, New Night, New  
to satisfy customers. Starting pay is  Apply by September 15. Send  BORHOOD CLOSE TO CAMPUS  273-9422  Leadership, New Attitude!!!!  
$8.80 per hour for evenings and  cover letter and resume to Doug  2773097  
$9.05 per hour on weekends. Apply  Franson, Mgr., Technical  Need GA's to home games  NOTRE DAME  The ORIGINAL campus group  
at Qualex Inc., a wholly owned sub­ Support, 612 Grace Hall, 631­ ENTIRE FURNISHED HOME FOR  Will sell or trade Navy or W.V.  FOOTBALL TICKETS  will hold it's first Info Meeting on  
sidiary of Eastman Kodak. 921  4662, dfranson@nd.edu  FOOTBALL WEEKENDS 2773097  GA's. Call Justin at x1722  BUY -SELL-TRADE  Wed. Sept. 1Oth, 7PM  
Louise St., South Bend, IN 46615.  
We support a drug free workplace.  FURNISHED ROOM, AIR,  I need 1 Ml State GA. Please call  232-0058  Our first Support Group Meeting:  
...~­ EOE  Used, functional bike  KITCHEN, PHONE, 3 MIN. N. OF  Travis @ 219-634-1651.  Wed. Sept 17th, 7PM  
call John x-4197  CAMPUS. 272-0615.  CONFIDENTIAL  
Trade:2 Ga. Tech. GAs. Need BC  TICKET-MART, INC.  Call 236-9661 for details!  
t.OOKING FOR A COOL JOB?  FOR SALE  or USC.243-9028  BUY/SELL NO SEASON AND  
Webmasters, graphic designers,  Wanted: Used road bike  INDIVIDUAL GAME TICKETS.  Hey Renee,  
database specialists call Chris at 1­ DRUMS  I have 2 Ga. Tech Gas I need 2  674-7645.  Hope your first week of school here  
5610.  Call Aaron at 634-4346  28" bass drum good condition­SO.oo  USC GAs. Will trade or pay $$.  was enjoyable. See you soon. Jim  
2 trap cases at 45.00 ea.  Please call Chris @ 634-4464  BUYING BUYING BUYING  
95' Alumni need many BC GA Tix.  Electronic equipment:  N.D GAONLY  Based on what happened Saturday  
(  246-0849-ask for Kristin  High School Junior needs tutor(s) for Chemistry, Algebra II, & English  Crate Speaker Traynor 4200 Mixer Amplifier  WANTED-2 GAs FOR USC  SEASON TICKETS 277-1659 BUYING BUYING BUYING  night in Paris, this is a sad world in which we live.  
Comp. Should be able to answer  Octapad  Family visiting-will pay big bucks  
EARLY CHILDHOOD DEVELOP­ questions and help review for  Roland Rhythm Composer TR727  for best seats. Call Jon-634-2028  Just like 1969-the Mets won the  
MENT CENTER  exams. Prefer to schedule tutor 2  Korg DDS dynamic digital drums  GA'S SEASON TIX GA's WANT­ series from the Orioles.  
The Early Childhood Development  times during school week, & on  Korg KMP68 Midi Patch Bay  ED BY LOCAL COMPANY  
Center at Notre Dame (ECDC-ND)  occasion, a Sunday session. Prefer  3 foot table and power strip  Married Stud &Stud Tix 4 sale.  PLEASE CALL 273-6929  17 women on the balcony and I  
located at 18680 Bulla Road and the Early Childhood Development  tutor to come to home (10min. from NO), but, student can drive to  Total: 1,000 firm Call 631-4873 or 2723987  2438161  wasn't even home! Hope y'all come back soon!  
Center at Saint Mary's College  tutor's location. Call 282·3631 dur­ Will trade aBC, Navy, or West  Buying GA's seasons or individual  
(ECDC-SMC) located in Havican  ing the day, or 272-9211  Brass bed, queen size with ortho­ Virginia G.A. for one Georgia Tech  games. Top dollar paid.  AAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAA  
Hall are currently accepting appli­ evenings/weekends.  pedic Mattress set and frame. New,  G.A. or student ticket. Willing to  Confidential service.  AAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAA  
cations from college students for  never used, still in plastic. $225.00.  negotiate. Contact Janine at  Call 234-5650.  AAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAA  
part time positions. The hours vary,  219-862-2082.  x1918.  AAAAAAHHHHHHHHHH!!!!!!!I!!!!!!  
including 11 :30 a.m.-1:05 p.m., MWF and 12:30-1:30 p.m., MWF and 4:30­6:00p.m. M-F. If you are interested  WANTED! PIANO PLAYER! FOR PRIVATE PARTY ON SEPT. 19 6:00 TO 8:00 ?  94 GLX Jetta V6, 47K Power, Leather, Sun-Roof, 5 Speed, Many Extras. 1 Owner  PLEASE HELP ME! I NEED: wvu  NO FOOTBALL TICKETS FOR SALE DAYTIME#: 232-2378  I'm here working at this place again!!!!!! Make the nightmare end!!! All I want to do is go home and watch TV. That would be fun  
in applying please contact Cindy  SEMI-CLASSICAL  $15,500 277-3199  GEORGIA TECH  EVENING #: 288-2726  and then I could eat Doritos and lis­ 
Hestad at ECDC-SMC, 284-4693  COLE PORTER, ROGER &  MICHIGAN STATE  ten to music after that. Stream of  
or Thayer Kramer at ECDC-ND,  HAMMERSTEIN ETC. (DEEP  92 Accord LX 2 Dr. V-4,  usc  NO TICKETS WANTED  consciousness classifieds ads are  
631-3344 for more information and  PURPLE) ETC. CALL 255-7234.  72,000K Power, Auto, 1 Owner  243-1806  DAYTIME#: 232-2378  dumb.  
an application.  Good Shape $8,500 277-3199  EVENING #: 288-2726  



.....,.........~--~-----~~~~~~-----~-.---~-----~~~---:--.~-~,.,,­
-'~,-\ ·, \ ' \ \ \ \ I \ \ '-~ \ \ l \. \ \ I \ \ \ \ ~ \ 1 \ ' I ' \ \ 1 I , \ \ I l t ) I • I t ' t t \ \ · I f t • : ' • ' ' ' . ' 
1 
0 

0
11 

, '; 1 \ \ . ~ , 'c '., I ~ ; lo I \ \ ~ \ \ ~ \ \ \ \ \ ' ' l \ \ \ I I 1 • ' t • t f " · ' " ' ' • 
I 

Monday, September 1, 1997 page 13
The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT 
"(;; < ·: '· 



1930 1997 




Sta,diu dication 






ad 
d ~





tldttde ~ 
ltn tfutlt4

· 7:00pm 



s 3, 1997. 
ltn tk tfutlt4 fAdtt de -----­~-tUe tk ea4t 4tde 


, 
. tkfl~ e~. 







. 
. l 
I 
l 
4-I 
' : 
I 
I 
I 
j 
' 
I I 
I 
. !: 
' 
I 
-fl . 
! i 
. 
I I I 
I I 
..., I 
I I 
I 
l I 
I 
i 
I 
I 
I 
,... i 
I I 
' 
' 
page 14 

V-ball 
continued from page 16 
and Sinichenko, one of their star players, was out for the game." 
By Saturday afternoon, the Irish were on the floor again, facing Oral Roberts, a team who had participated in last year's NCAA Tournament. In a seesaw battle dictated bv short rallies and many errors on both sides, Notre Dame took a five set victory over the Eagles, 15­12,13-15, 16-14,9-15, 15-9. 
ORU held a 14-11 lead in the second game but needed 10 op­portunities to even the match. The match took a pivotal turn in the third game when, down 12-14, Notre Dame won four straight points to take a 2-1 lead. In the fifth set, the team regained its concentration and took a quick 8-2 lead. Despite a late ORU rally, the Irish held on to win the game and the match. 
"It's still early in the season," Brown remarked about the sloppiness of the gameplay, "and we have a long way to go before we find the right combi­nation." 
Only a few hours passed before the team competed yet 
beari;~~;h~;ri~l\ri'~~LHu.•~• 
SattJ_t<Ja i'~ll0;30 a.m:mtt
wil[''cOri~ist'iota 1/2-mile'' swim.plq~ a;two-mile. rnn Registe~;~ adyapce at RecSportS ~ffice:· .. ··.· > · 
be individtl.alfor team 
petition .in.9o~··· 
non--var8itytdivisions. 
~.no ~h~rg~ fQrthis event.
:scuha·;;euurse} _.;.•.····the··.· 
infor~ational m{3eting Jor; 
this co~rs~ ~Ill be Sunday at 1 · p.rif: in >tRockne MemoriaL Completion ofthe course results in YMCA life~ time certification. 
Shorin-Ryu Karate ­This is a semester~long course wh\chis instructed 
.~fi!fJifi~ifj~
6:30 p.tnidil the Rockne Memorial. 
Women's Self·Defense ­This course meets for 10 

_J;.. 
sessions on Mondays and Wednesdays in the Rockne Memorial/ Class begins on Sept. 8 and is open to stu~ dents and staff. Class size is limit~d an,q there is a fee of
$1 .. . . . 
vveam~t1lllVS from 6:45-7:45 
p.m. The fee is $25. Register in advance. There will be an information meeting for this class on Sept. 7 atl;45 p.m. Space is limited. Call RecSports for more info{'' ........... 
Ballet ++"clas~~s will b~ held on Sundays from 3-4 
p.m. and Wednesdays from 8~9 p.m)'The fee is $35. Register in advance at RecSports; Sign-ups begin on Sept. 8. There will be an informational meeting on Sept. 7 at 1:15 p.m. Space is limited. 

L_ 
again, this time against No.18 Wisconsin. The Badgers had pulled off two wins earlier in the weekend, including a four­set victory over Louisville that morning. Despite a strong effort by the home team, the Badgers managed to defeat the Irish, 15-10, 11-15, 15-4, 15­11. 
One of the biggest surprises of the match was the return of Jaimie Lee, who had flown back from the World University Games hours beforehand. 
Lee entered the arena with Notre Dame trailing in the sec­ond game, 4-2 and took some time to go over plays with the coaches before entering the match. On the first play, she could not reach a set from Boylan but moments later got her first kill of the season in the middle of a 9-1 run that eventu­ally evened the match at one game apiece. · 
"Our plan before the game was not to let her play," Brown said. "But we didn't want to go down without giving it a chance. I pretty much left it up to her to choose." 
However, the Badgers erased their thoughts on Lee's arrival and regained their composure, taking the third game convinc­ingly and later pulling away from a 10-10 tie to win the fourth game and the match. 

The Observer • SPORTS 
"There were a lot of good things we did and a lot of things we need to work on," Brown said. 
"We had some trouble with pass control and we hit for a very low percentage against Wisconsin. We'll have to iron some of these things out." 
Wisconsin was led by senior hitter and tournament MVP Amy Lee's 14 kills. Three other players on the Wisconsin squad also had double-digit kills. Harris once again led the Irish offense with 21 kills. 

W.Soccer 
continued from page 16 
picked up her second consecu­tive shutout with one save in the contest. 
"Our attack is not quite as smooth as it should be," said Petrucelli. "I don't know if we finish enough of our chances. We're not always going to get 
40  chances  to  score  each  
game."  
The  Irish  travel  to  

Washington to face the Huskies on Friday, the first of four straight road games for the team, before their showdown with North Carolina in the Adidas/Lady Footlocker Classic at Alumni Field on Sept. 19. 
~.11~  
c~.,.  Oo~o,.,  
R#c:.~-/ .  ""·~"•~.v •••,,  

Sunday, September 7 ,. Notre Dame Golf Course Tee Times Begining at 1 0:00 


InfoJ'IIIIItional Meetinfl 
ALL ARE WELCOME 

? Cal/631-8352 ? 
with questions 
-·-------~------­
Monday, September 1, 1997 

The Observer/Brandon Candura Sophomore forward Jenny Streiffer played a key part in the Irish's suc­cess this past weekend. 




lhe 00 
for people  to ~(!  
e. f~llowing Sltlons:  ~ ·/I!  
~  

IJtirrRAtD# 
'd in developing erver Online rst Campus Online Paper 

WHEN? 
Monday 


September I 6pm 
WHERE? 
Loftus Center 

Room II4 



' \ \ \ I ; ~ \ \ ! \ \ \ ' I ~ \ \ \ I \ \ I \ ' I I I I 1 
' . '-. ' i \ \ t \ , ' I I t ~ I I I 

Monday, Seprember 1, 1997 The Observer • TODAY page 15 
MEN ABOUT CAMPUS 
MOTHER GOOSE & GRIMM 
DILBERT 
ARE YOU TELLING ME. TH"T YOU INVENTED THE 
FlRST WEB BROWSER? 






) __ 

""'"-~-iiC--.......;;:._____;;;;;=:iU1~--~-----L.--..:W::==d 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 33 Org. that got Dillinger
1 Glass house, of 36 "Toy Story," for 
sorts 
a Spanish inns one 39 Korean War 
15A singing fighterJackson 
16 Olympics venue 40Cape--, westernmost
11Tumbled point in Africa 11 Wise guys? 
41 Strapped19 Part of French 42 One at Indochina Roanoke, e.g. 

20 Berth of a baby? 44 Vulcan's
21 Tennessee Chimney
tributary 45 They may take 
22 Singer Pinza turns for the 
24Ciinches wurst25 Peace of mind 48 Polish language 27 Starts right? 
so Triple-decker, 30Zelda's perhaps

heartthrob, in 60's TV 51 "Gypsy" star, 1989 .
32 "The Lion King" hero 54 Feed back 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
-=+=:-+:::,...j 14 Comic offerings 
Roll Hall of Fame inductee 
E 
0 
u «i 
'2 
E 
j 
c 
i 
"' 

56 "The Plague" setting 57 Pacify 
sa Carlo--, creator of Pinocchio 
59 Sour note 60 It'll keep you out of a scrape or two 61 Volunteers 
DOWN 
1 Prinsengracht Canal site 
2 Subject of an Emil Ludwig biography 
3 Dreams 4 "The In-Laws" co-star 5 Half of an 80's TV team & Wagner opera based on a 14th-century Italian patriot 
7 Cracked 8 Hummus holder 9 Pulitzer contemporary 
10 Is clobbered 
11 General assemblies 1a Supreme leader? 13 Stained glass figure 
FLt-.5Hr!>A CK 
I WONDER ~OW LONG PEOPLE WOULD SIT IN FRONT OF A. COt-\PUTER WAlTING FOR NOllUNG. 
) 


23 Pay telephone direction 
26 Holt of old westerns 28 Moderated 
29 Warriors' grp. 
31 Act like an 
icicle? aa It atopa when it's depressed 
34 Art and Chip Sansom comic, with "The" 
35 Shredded 37 Lunar calendar holiday 
u 
" 
,; 
'ii 
u 
... 
... 
" 
Ul 
~ 
38 Nice hot drink? 47 Fireplace 42 Sir Richard of 49 Simple basket The Tatler 52 Opera 43 Make waves 
with elephants
45lt may go 
53 Betthrough 
Join The
the roof ssCieave 46 Bridge tower 57 Fake it 
Answers to any three clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone: 


Observer staff. 
1-900-420-5656 (75e per minute). Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 

DAN SULLIVAN YOUR HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 

CELEBRITIES BOI{N ON THIS DAY: D~vid Byrne, Alict• B<1v L.1ur,•l, Danny Wood, l'iltricl' Munsd 
DEAR EUGENIA: I was born on Aug. 22, 1974, ill 10:11 ;un. I wt•nlout with a girl for seven years off and on. Slw is a Leo born on Julv 25, 1'17-t. We are still great friends, but haven't been sexual for O\'er a vcar. If she k,wt·~ some of her new friends, maybt.> we cnuld gl'l soml'thing stilrtcd <~gam. We .1ft' \'erv comfortable with one an­other. Vvt• broke up because things weren't going too well. I was wondt•r­ing if we would make a good lifetime 
p<~ir. 
Lt'O Lu\'ers 
DEAR LEO: Lovers Your compar­ison with your Ll"o frit"nd is passion­ate, loving,·caring, sexual and all those wonderful things. Unfortu­nately, since the beginning of the '90s, you have both gone through some pretty rough times. Your chart indicates that you are moving into a period where you want a commit­ment. Without her time of birth, I can't tell you if she is in the same framt" of mind. You do make a very good lifetime r"uple. However, you are both still facing some uncertain­ties. I feel that you are both moving through a period of re-evaluation. You have to be friends before you can be lovers, and with that in mind, I suggest that you let your relation­ship unfold as it may. As for her friends, they could be a problem. 
Ke~p in mind that you match up well to the signs Aries, Sagittarius and Aquarius as well. 

MIKE PETERS 
SCOIT ADAMS 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Ro­mantic partners may cost you dearly. 
Don't try to impress others by being flamboyant or dramatic. Creative en-
WHAT IF llUS 
THING GETS 


Born Today: You'll have some pretty amazing ideas this year, but you'll

OUTOFH~NO? haw to get some sound financial advice if you don't want to go over budget. You can make ends meet if you're willing to do the work youl'SE'If. This won't 
be a rt.'Stful year if you really want to get ahead. 


Wanted: Reporters, photographers and editors. 
de.ll'or~ will turn out a!> pli1nz1l'd. 
Don't f"lrtake in ~lint-money ventun.'!>. 
TAURUS (April 20-May 201: Your lover m<~y takt· drastic nwasures to gel your attention. Don't overreact or all''"" your temper to explode. 
GEMINI (May 21-June 201: (.;l'l logl'ther with friends or n•latives. Tr.wel will bt• benl'ficial. Self-im­pwvenwnt projects will bring favor­able r~'Sults. 
CANCER (june 21-July 221: lll'lp 
tho~ less fortunate than you a11,l re­
wards will follow. Older members of 
vour family m<~y need your advi, P. 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 221: Don't blow situations out of proportion. Your tcn­dt•ncy to overspend on items for your 
lum1e will cause friction. 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 221: You will take things the wmng way at <~n emotional level. Problems with in­l<~ws or noisy relatives may get your dander up. 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 221: Dllll't overspend on club memberships. Fund-raising events will cost more than you Ciln afford. 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Al­though you may have difficulties with your emotional partner, you c<~n make major accomplishments if you put in overtime. 
SAGlTIARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 211: Travel and family outings will be en­~wable. However, be sure not to over­srend on entertainment. 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 191: You will overspend if you go shop­ping. Investments will not be sound. Childn·a may cause friction. 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Your emotions will be unstable. Think twice before you say something you'll regret IatE'r. 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Em­ployers may overreact. Be aware that empty promises may result if you don't get agreements in writing. 

The Observer 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompany­ing form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to:  The Observer  
and mail to:  P.O. Box Q  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  
D  Enclosed is $70 for one academic year  
D  Enclosed is $40 for one semester  

Name ______________________________________________ Address ________________________________________ City---------State ____ Zip_______ 

... 



•tf..~~----·------------,.~-----------------------------~---­
I 
" 
ji 
I 
;i 


SPORTS 
!J I 
I 
~ 
I 
! 

~1 
f 
i·
t, 
! ' 
I, 
-·~ 
I
l 
! 
I 
I 
~· 
i 

The Observer/John Daily 
Freshman Denise Boylan prepares a set in the win against Louisville. 


page 16 Monday, September 1, 1997 
see V-BALL I page 14 
Offensive fireworks highlight successful weekend 
By ALLISON KRILLA In the second half, freshman victory, marking the 28th Sports Writer Meotis Erikson slipped a feed straight win over Big Ten oppo­from Sobrero past St. John's nents for Notre Dame women's 
Notre Dame's women's soc­goalie Sherry Reill for her first soccer teams, dating back to a cer team showed its depth and career goal. 3-0 loss to the Spartans on domination in two games this "We couldn't have won either Sept. 22, 1989. weekend, outscoring Big East game without the freshmen," Despite controlling the ball rival St. John's 7-0 on Friday, said head coach Chris and taking nine shots in the and Big Ten foe Michigan State Petrucelli. "But it's not just our first 18 minutes, Notre Dame 6-0 Sunday afternoon. freshmen. You could see the did not record a goal until 
The two-time defending Big older players coming out and 18:59, when Streiffer volleyed East champions outshot the stepping it up. That's the in a loose ball from five yards Red Storm 41-2, as seven dif­strength of our team, our out. Makinen added her second ferent Irish players found the depth." goal of the weekend on a blast back of the net in the season­"For me, it's been pretty easy that ricocheted off the left post opener. because of my experience," and found the back of the net, 
Junior Shannon Boxx opened said freshman Anne Makinen. giving the Irish a 2-0 advan­the scoring for Notre Dame (2-"And the team is great." tage. Boxx's shot at 44:04 put 0), heading in a loose ball from Jenny Streiffer knocked in a the Irish up 3-0 at the half and seven yards out, just 8:13 into pass on the line from Gonzalez, gave senior co-captain Holly the contest. Boxx and senior increasing the Irish lead to 5-0. Manthei, the women's career co-captain Kate Sobrero assist­Makinen showed flashes of and single-season assist leader, ed on the game's second goal, brilliance, as she drilled in her her first assist of the 1997 sea­the first career goal for fresh­first career goal in a blue and son. man Monica Gonzalez. gold jersey off a pass from Jen Manthei, who recorded three 
Jenny Heft closed out the first Grubb. assists on the day, picked up half scoring with a header into Notre Dame closed out the another in the second half on a the right corner from two yards scoring at 89:04, on a Jean cross to Heft, whose header at out. McGregor goal that found the 47:06 made it 4-0. Heft chipped 
Sobrero, a three-time All­right corner of the net off a a Makinen feed over goalkeep­American defender, recorded feed from Iris Lancaster. er Sara Kloosterman's out­four assists in the two games, "[The freshmen) did awe­stretched arms from 10 yards just one short of her 1996 sea­some," said Sobrero. "You can't out. son total of five. even tell they are freshmen. Boxx closed out the scoring, 
"The balls I played were not They had to step into huge rifling a shot into the upper that great," said Sobrero. "It's roles, and they did." right corner from 35 yards. just that [my teammates] are The Irish outshot Michigan Goalkeeper LaKeysia Beene amazing players." State 44-2 in Sunday's lopsided 
see W. SOCCER/ page 14 Freshman mid-fielder Anne Makinen attempts to gain control of the ball. 


at Washington, 


vs. Indiana, 
• Men's soccer squad ties Pittsburgh
Friday, September 5 

September 2, 7:30 p.m. 
see page 12 


• Sports Briefs 
at Gonzaga, 

vs. Georgia Tech, 
Friday, August 5 

September 6, 1:30 p.m. 
see page 14 


