
Thursday, August 28, 1997 • Vol. XXXI No.4 
. THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
By HEATHER COCKS 
News Editor 
and MICHELLE KRUPA 
Associate News Editor 
In an unprecedented fund­raising effort. the University has pledged its intent to raise $767 million by the year 2000 in "Generations: A Campaign for the Notre Dame Student." 
Aiming to augment scholarship funds. faculty positions, campus libraries and construction plans, the campaign is the largest of its kind ever undertaken in Catholic higher education and the ninth largest capital campaign now in progress in American academia. 
"The total [dollar amount] is intended to suggest a realistic appraisal of what is both possi­ble and necessary," said University President Father Edward Malloy. "In the same vein. if we had a hope and dream list. this is what would be on it." 
The wish list was created in conjunction with the Colloquy for thr Year 2000, a campus-wide study to determine the needs and priorities of faculty, students and staff, as well as serve as part of the University's accreditation report. Once defined, adminis­trators determined the amount of money necessary to accommo­date each request as thoroughly as .possible. 
Over 65 percent of the total monetary goal has been attained thus far, with some of the over $500 million already being invested in projects like the Main Building renovation and con­struction of the dorms on West Quad. The stadium project is not part of the campaign. 
"Most money, especially that for construction, is given for a specific project. What people give will hopefully correspond to what our goals are," University provost Nathan ,Hatch said. 
"[Last spring] we completed what we call the 'quiet phase' during which we talk to the peo­ple most likely to donate the largest amount," said Dennis Moore, director of Public Relations. "Now we're heading 
Defying gravity ... 

Law professor founds institute 
By LAURA PETELLE News Writer 
With world economies becoming increasingly interdependent, several leading academics and legal practitioners have created the World Law Institute. 
Led by David Link, the dean of the Notre Dame Law School, the institute com­bines international law. which is the interactions among nations, comparative law, defined as the domestic laws of a particular country as compared to other coun­

tries. and customary law, the Link way interactions between particular countries have proceeded in the past. 
"World law," said Link, "is the most fluid area of law that there is." He commented that there are many institutions in place to study comparative law and international law, but that world law is an relatively unexamined area. 
World law. however, is becoming especially important as more and more companies become multinational. A contract in the United States is a very different thing from a contract in Japan. "You're not just translating language; you're translating culture," Link said. 
Link is joined in the creation of the institute by Harold Berman, a professor at Emory University Law School and professor emeritus at Harvard University, Thomas Murray of the Sandusky, Ohio, firm Murray and Murray and a fellow of the International Academy of Trial Lawyers, and Edward Mearns. a professor of law at Case Western Reserve University. Mearns will also serve as the dean of the insti­tute's faculty. 
The institute will be organized in two parts: One part will be a forum for major players in world law, and the other part will be acade­mies opened in existing law schools dedicated to the study of world law for post-professional students. The institute is aimed at educating not just academic and practicing lawyers but also government officials and business leaders. 
"You can no longer think just internationally, nor can you think trans-nationally," said Link. "We're now moving into a global economy and you've got to think globally." 
see LINK I page 4 
By ALLISON KOENIG 
Saint Mary's News Editor 
Before their luggage and boxes were completely unpacked. Saint Mary's College student government officials were busy planning this yea(s 
~~vents. 
The Boord of Governance IBOGI. headed by student body president Nikki Milos. is look­ing, first and foremost. to par­ticipate in and sponsor activities surrounding this fall's inaugura­tion of new College Pres­ident Marilou Eldred. BOG members have expressed great desire to wel­come and work closely with Eldred. 
BOG has also alluded to con­tinuing projects named in Milos' and vice presi­dent Lori McKeough's cam­paign. The anticipated multicul­tural center in llaggar College Center will be one effort toward extending diversity education. Additionally, BOG hopes to sponsor guest lecturers on ethi­cal issues. 
"I want us to be known for what we did this year," Milos told a BOG member. "I want tangible items available to show our efl'orts were successful." 
Other areas of the campaign platforms that are being cur­rently addressed by BOG include increasing athletic event attendance. establishing a permanent wall or area that commemorates student leader­ship. and continuing the distrib­ution of monthly event calen­dars. 
New goals have been added to the board's initial agenda 

SMC boards look to expand roles 
from last spring. Milos and BOG hope to continue working with Notre Dame student govern­ment. They are also looking to familiarize students, especially seniors, with the alumnae net­work center. 
Milos assures that the min­utes of the board, regardless of the activity, will be, "Don't talk; Do it." 
McKeough is taking the same no-nonsense attitude in leading the Student Academic Council {SAC) this year. SAC rep­resentatives participated in the acade­mic open house for freshmen on Saturday, then held a retreat and meeting Sunday morn­

Katie Wehby ing. to com-SAB coordinator mence plans for the year. 
Four com­mittees have been formed to plan the key events of the year. The Life of the Mind committee schedules lectures geared toward students, while a sepa­rate committee was formed to sponsor lectures that are direct­ed at the Saint Mary's and South Bend communities at large. The third committee will plan Women's Month, which will take place in March, and the final committee will oversee the content and disbursement of the SAC newsletter. 
"The women I'm going to be working with q.re fantastic and energetic. They're going to bring a lot of success to SAC this year," McKeough said. 
The board plans to strength­en the tie between themselves as representatives and the 
see GOVERN I ·page 4 

into the last, most time-intensive stage directed at a larger group of people." 
The fundraising proposal out­lines the allotment of $268 mil­lion for direct student needs, including undergraduate, gradu­ate and law scholarships. Malloy explained that endowments given for financial aid, which pay annual dividends on donated gifts. provide Notre Dame with a lasting source of funds. 
"Endowments are like constant dollars. If we just spend that money, it's more decisive and immediate. but the more internal resources we have, the more control we have over the mix of our student body," Malloy said. 
He clarified that once invested, 5 percent of the endowment is available annually in the form of interest accumulated; therefore, it is a guaranteed, lasting source of financial assistance. 
Presently, the University pro­vides consistent assistance to students who earn status as Notre Dame or Holy Cross Scholars. with the latter intend-
in millions of dollars 
::;­
~

Cit Q,) 
~ 

~ ~ ItI»
::::­

~ c::a' Cit 
::a::.. ~ .... ~ 
~ ~ ~ 
~ ;;:: ~ 

'l~i [!: 4:1) =15 c::a ....: 
5:1 ~ ::a' a-
=-
CD CD c;;· ~ ~ ~ 
~

5! ::a C':a =t ~ ~ =:to =:to ~ 
~· .... c::a c::a
'loll:::: 

-s·
::a::.. ~· ;:? ir Ch ir 
Q. :sw § f;J
IIIII: c8 ~ ~ ~ ~ -c8 iil::a-::a­
;;· ;:::: ~ ~ -s·
til ::::-..... -s·
::;· Ch Ch
5I c8' ~ :: il
CQ 

= G
= c::=J c::::;J c::::;J D D
= 
i 



ca=­
~ 
Q. 
~ 
::::r­
e. 
~ 
=:to 
-s· 
eli 

2 3 2 6 6'""'·· 7 12 40 12 178 
The Observer/ Melissa Weber 
ed for minority students in an centage of minority applicants. attempt to diversify the student "We need to keep up our efTort body. Malloy asserted his desire to recruit minority students, and to continue the expansion of competition to recruit the best those programs. with special interests in increasing the per-see CAMPAIGN I page 4 
page 2 The Observer· INSIDE Thursday, August 28, 1997 
• INSIDE COLUMN • WORLD AT A GLANCE 

Rethinking the death penalty 
This past Sunday night as most Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students were busy getting rooms and apartments ready for another year ofschool, tragedy struck in our own backyard. South Bend police Corporal Paul 


Deguch was shot and Eddie Llull • 
killed on Talbot Street. Associare Viewpoint Editor 
Sixteen-year-old Gregory 
Dickens Jr. has been arrested as the only sus­
pect in the murder. If convicted, the state has 
requested that Dickens be given the death 
penalty. 
The vast majority of us had already requested the death penalty as soon as we heard of the murder, long before the state ever had a chance to petition for it. Most of us, like one of my roommates. also chose far more gruesome means of death for the murderer than the state ever would. 
This reaction is understandable. We do not 
know the victim, but we do know he made an 
honest living and was a family man. We also 
know that he was killed in cold blood for appar­
ently no reason. Such a murder is an affront to 
our own innate sense of what is good in the 
world. We are all furious, and we should be. 
BtJt should we really act on that anger? If we do, we only make matters worse. 
Since the lynch mob fad died out long ago, my roommate and the rest of us do not decide death penalty directly. The prosecutor petitions for it based on the laws set by Indiana. In this case the law states that the prosecutor may petition for the death penalty since Deguch was a police­man acting in the course of his duties. It is one of the 15 reasons that allow an Indiana state court to sentence someone to death as long as that someone is 16 or older. Citizens of Indiana accept this law as do the citizens of most other states. But why? 
Do we think it acts as a deterrent for all those 
murderers out there? I fail to believe that. 
Criminals are not going to rethink their actions 
because of the possible consequence of the 
death penalty. It is not an imposing threat. I 
also fail to see how we propose to find justice by 
putting Dickens to death. Our society will be no 
different whether he lives or dies. The real issue 
here is that we have once again seen a reflec­
tion of our society and are horrified by what we 
see. If we put him to death we can get rid of that 
image of ourselves. By putting him to death we 
denounce any responsibility for this 16-year-old. 
We reassure ourselves that he has nothing to do 
with us. The truth is that this boy is a part of us. 
He is a product of our own communities. a prod­
uct becoming more and more common year 
after year. We hear them called "teenage preda­
tors" by politicians, but the truth is that they are 
still only children. Dickens' grandmother called 
him a "good kid who made some bad choices" 
and I believe her. 
This is not a defense of Dickens' actions. If 
convicted he should be severely punished. But I 
do not see the benefits of killing him other than 
that it may quell our fury. 
Rather than letting our emotions dictate our 
actions let us look rationally at the grave prob­
lem in our communities. We need to take 
responsibility for the many "teenage predators" 
growing up across America. Instead of distanc­
ing ourselves from them we need to reach out to 
them in each of our communities. Instead of 
locking ourselves in our homes we need to open 
our eyes to what is going on outside in our 
streets. We owe that not only to our youth, but 
also to those individuals like Paul Deguch who 
have reached out in their communities. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
•  TODAY'S STAFF  
News  Graphics  
Hearher MacKenzie  John King  
Laura Perelle  Melissa Weber  
Sports  Production  
Kathleen Lopez  Michelle Krupa  
Viewpoint  Heather MacKenzie  
Kelly Brooks  Mark DeBoy  
Accent  Lab Tech  
Joey Crawford  Katie Kroener  

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
Dutch muskrats thrive, weakening several medieval dikes 
MONTFOORT, Netherlands For centuries, the Dutch have paid
Muskrats threaten dikes 
Across the lush lowland echoes a tri­careful attention to their earthen dikes,
Mrlhons of muskrats are threatening the security .r;M 
of /he cikes in the Netherlands. Eech year /hey burrow ou/ hundreds of thousands of tons offurry carcass lands with a thud atop sand from the earthen dikes the Dutch use to The watch has taken on new urgency proleclthelr towt'!s from flooding. 
umphant "Yes!" Within seconds, a some of which date to the Middle Ages. 
the dike. since 1995, when widespread flooding 
"There," says Jaap de Wit, one of of the Maas, Waal and Rhine Rivers 500 government-hired muskrat trap­forced the evacuation of 250,000 peo­pers. "One less rat to make holes in . ple. the dike." The latest threat to the The dikes survived, but inspectors Netherlands' vast system of medieval identified dozens of weak points, levees that protect two-thirds of the prompting the government to speed up country from submersion isn't erosion a $1.4 billion repair and reinforcement or even old age: It's the incessant tun­plan.So, it is "zero tolerance" when it neling of muskrats. .< .i comes to the insidious and prolific 
"Muskrat Love?" Here, it's more Muskrat math ' m u s k r at , w h i c h thrives in t h e like muskrat hate. lnon•r•"·· ~.,.);'.,.):;.',~\.X.-~ ',>,-'
~J0. rf Netherlands' hundreds of thousands of "This is a war we cannot win. But if ~ Y"VVVVVv miles of waterways. There are even we didn't do this, we'd have a disas­
o"m"""''"""""'""'w'''"'•'""""""'"""'""'· muskrat hotlines, part of a $15 million ter in the whole of Holland on our A~~~~~~~JIOi&&,~A.ib.#b a year effort to thin them out. By tun­hands," said Brand Klijnstra, one of ~·,.,:. &t<iiiiA.!bJJIIM'I),.Jilll~~.?44ll,ffi!l.,$ neling beneath the dikes, it's possible
A.ib.S~>~,!»~~.!»~A.SI>.!»A.IbA . h d"k ld b k"
40 official "muskrat fighters" in the ,,.<4il.,$4.ii!Ai'4114114114114'4A!fA!t.~ at any mmute t at a 1 e cou rea . 
One mutkr•t ~lr lllrl/1 h•11• up to 50 ~biH.
central province of Utrecht. 
APfTarryKo~' 

Gingrich explores archeology on dig 
LIVINGSTON. Mont. 

House Speaker Newt Gingrich found a fossil bone Wednesday on his first dinosaur dig and said the experience was like getting a hole-in-one in golf. Gingrich was hesitant to complain about the windy, hot weather and fruitless digging that stretched through the morning, but his mood lightened considerably after his find. "That was 


sort of a giant thrill," he said. "I was in a zone that had nothing to do with anything but dinosaurs."Gingrich accompanied paleontologist Jack Horner to the dig site south of Livingston in the Paradise Valley. Actor Peter Fonda, who lives in the area, joined the group as a spec­tator.Horner found a plant fossil and Gingrich gave it to his wife.rt was about 2 p.m., after the media event turned to serious digging, that Gingrich pointed to the spot where he had been digging.Horner said, "Hmmm." A smile broke across Gingrich's face, and Fonda began to clap."Congratulations," Horner said to Gingrich."Newt found something," he told the specta­tors.The assorted crowd of security guards, aides and reporters broke into applause. Gingrich's visit to the mountain dig site marked a brief respite. 
Toy chocolates threaten child saftey 
MINNEAPOLIS 

The attorneys general in Minnesota and Connecticut today urged candy giant Nestle to voluntarily remove from store shelves a new product that features plastic Disney movie figures like "Hercules" encased in a chocolate-covered plastic ball. "This illegal product lit­erally sugarcoats potential death and injury -wrapping in chocolate small toys that may cause choking or worse," said Connecticut Attorney General Richard Blumenthal.Minnesota Attorney General Hubert Humphrey III said officials were asking Nestle to "takeall steps necessary to protect our kids" and pull Nestle Magic from the market."The bottom line is, it's not worth risking even a single child's life or health on this new toy," Humphrey said.Nestle did not immediately return a telephone call for comment.Nestle last month began selling a ball of chocolate wrapped around toy fig­ures of Disney movie characters, but federal health offi­cials have said Nestle Magic chocolates appear to be safe -the toy inside is too big to choke someone and is encased in a plastic shell not expected to chip teeth. 
Officials to investigate drinking death 
BATON ROUGE, La. 

A state-assembled team will investigate the binge­drinking death of a Louisiana State University student celebrating fraternity pledge week who was too young to buy alcohol legally. "This young man made a mistake," said John Kennedy. secretary of the Department of Revenue and Taxation, which oversees the state's Alcoholic Beverage Control board. "If someone assisted him in making that mistake and broke the law, they're going to answer for it."Kennedy's announcement Wednesday came on the same day a private funeral Mass was said in suburban New Orleans for Benjamin Wynne, who died of alcohol poisoning the day before. Preliminary autopsy reports showed the Sigma Alpha Epsilon pledge had a blood-alcohol level of .588 percent. an amount authorities said would have required con­suming more, than two dozen drinks. The control board investigation was one of five launched in the wake of the 20-year-old student's death. The legal drinking age is 
21. The university, campus police, Baton Rouge police and the national chapter of Sigma Alpha Epsilon are also investigating. "We want to know who is responsible, who was at the parties, how the alcohol was acquired," said LSU Chancellor William Jenkins. 'He added that police have no evidence the student was forced to drink. 
Former NBC giant dies of cancer 
LOS ANGELES 

Brandon Tartikoff. the former NBC Entertainment president who transformed prime time television in the 1980s with the landmark shows "Hill Street Blues," "L.A. Law" and "The Cosby Show," died Wednesday, KCAL-TV reported. He was 48. Tartikoff had been undergoing chemotherapy treatment earlier this year for his third recurrence of Hodgkins disease. He was diag­nosed with the disease, a cancer of the lymph nodes, when he was 23. He became the youngest entertainment president in network history when he took over NBC's programming at age 30 in 1980 and ran the network's schedule until 1991. He quickly turned the lowest-rated network into the nation's most popular through ground­breaking comedies and dramas, including "Cheers." "Family Ties," "Miami Vice" and "The Golden Girls." NBC was the No. 1 network for five consecutive seasons under Tartikoff's leadership. In March, Tartikofl' was hired today by America Online to bolster its development of online programs focusing on the entertainment indus­try. 
• SOUTH BEND WEATHER • NATIONAl WEATHER 
The AccuWeather®forecast for noon, Thursday, Aug. 28.
5 Day South Bend Forcast 
AccuWeather®forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 
Lines separate high temperature zones for the day 
............. i 

h.--·'",..........-.....................
, B. 
L 

Thursday 
77 571 



siii 63ti

Friday 
FRONTS: 

~ -----­
Saturday ~ 85 64 
Presstiro 

H L EE &"SI !:nl 0 [Z] ~ i)­
HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS FLURRIES SNOW /C€ SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY
sundll.y ~r 's'i 63 
NATIONAL SUMMARY: 
Hot, humid weather will stretch from Texas to South Dakota today. Thunderstorms will ignite along the 
eastern edge of this air from North Dakota to Missouri. Additional thunderstorms will rumble near the 
Eastern Seaboard. Dry weather will comfort the Great Lakes as a taw showers and storms dot the Northwest and the Rockies.
Mo~day , (·ti' 82 65 
~ !(""\)'''~ '·,.., !' '"),_[''·""' " 
Atlanta 91 70 Dallas 93 70 New Orleans 93 76 Baltimore 84 60 Denver 90 59 New York 80 69 Boston 73 .64 Los Angeles 87 67 Philadelphia 82 65 Chicago 80 59 Miami 90 78 Phoenix 102 81
"'",~'~9-Q,Q (f ~ 
Columbus 79 58 Minneapolis 82 64 St. Louis 86 69
Showers T·storms Rain Flurries Snow Ice Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloud 
--~------~---­
Thursday, August 28, 1997 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
ND,gr_,~ 
in ad 
By KRISTINA News Writer 
Notre Dame's new of admissions Daniel Sar plans to continue the Joe his office on increasing 
ty within incoming"'"'""""·' "We have both 
and male/female Notre Dame. but . have the rl1v<>r<:iht fro 
you learn ou room,'' he said. 
Saracino'; the fo admissions ptof~ssion Santa Clara University, over the post. on ,July 1 replaced Kevin Rooney was recently named dean of the First Studies program. 
Saracino explain diversity is critical for ing each student's experience outside th room. 
He also hopes to ere well-rounded student with the best in both ac.ii;l;fll~.:;>'"-·r,tg~~ mics and character. to late a community in which students learn from each and faculty members catalysts for that 
''From my college remember conversations side the classroom, not tures. As my ..........J4u••n wrote me, 'Opp learn here are limited the need for sleep.' to make it frustrating you students to sleep." Saracirid!'iijY Said. ,, v~JL1UJ.11<LL·~l; .. 
Nathan Hatch, University's provost, supports 
• NEWS ANAlYSIS 
Kmiec approves of Court decision 
By DAVID FREDDOSO 
Assistant News Editor 
This summer. the United States Supreme Court struck down the Religious Freedom Restoration Act of 1993 
(RFRA) with the case of the city of Boerne, Texas vs. Flores. 
According to some scholars, this 


decision is a Kmiec huge blow to religious freedom. But Professor Douglas Kmiec of Notre Dame's Law School believes that the bill was mis­guided in the first place, and could very easily have had serious and harmful long term effects on both the Constitution and the practice of religion in 
the United States. 
"This bill was really unlike any other piece of legislation, because it was enacted to dis­place an interpretation of the Constitution," Kmiec said, "and no one's Constitutional rights are safe if the Constitution can be repeal~d by legislation." 
The act was originally designed to guarantee that any government action which could burden religious free­dom should be thoroughly scrutinized. Under the bill, any such government action was subjected to a two-part test: The government would first have had to prove that such an action "is in the furtherance of a compelling government interest," and second that it is "the least restrictive means of furthering that government interest." 
President Bill Clinton, along with the act's authors, Sens. Ted Kennedy and Orrin Hatch, actively supported the biparti­san bill. 
But according to Kmiec, the bill would have had disastrous Constitutional consequences. 
"The drafters of the Fourteenth Amendment of the Constitution had specifically rejected the kind of legislation which RFRA represents," he said. "It would displace states and local governments." 
A good example of this, Kmiec said, can be found in the Boerne vs. Flores case itself. Catholic Archbishop Flores of San Antonio brought a lawsuit against the small city when he was denied a building permit to expand a Catholic church because of its local zoning status as an historic landmark. 
He based his case on RFRA, 
stating that if the church could 
not expand to fit its quickly 
growing congregation, it would 
no longer be able to fulfill its 
function. Flores argued that 
this would impair religious 
freedom. 

The Court decided against 
the archbishop, ruling that 
zoning laws and other such 
statutes cannot be superseded on these grounds. 
According to Kmiec, the Boerne decision was good for the well being of the Constitution, since it gives states and local governments their proper power to enforce local laws. 
"[The decision] effectively reinforced the original intend­ed boundaries of legislative power which comes from the Constitution," Kmiec said. 
RFRA also enjoyed wide sup­port from American the lead­ers of nearly every major faith in the country. 
But according to Kmiec, RFRA would also have been detrimental to the practice of religion in the United States, since it would cause believers to adopt a harmful complacen­cy regarding their rights to free exercise of religion. 
"To use RFRA in such a way [as it was tried in Boerne vs. Flores] is not a good thing for religious freedom," he said. 
Kmiec said that he would be 
more in favor of seeing 
Congress treat each problem 
that arises individually, rather 
than enacting a single, sweep­
ing bill such as RFRA. 
"The best thing Congress could do at this point would be to hold hearings where there are frequent problems with generally applicable laws infringing on someone's free exercise of religion," he said, "and I do think that Congress is willing to do this." 
Checkout some 

library! 


You need cash, but you're at the library ... 1st Source Bank has you covered! 
Our Resource Center ATM is conveniently located in the Hesburgh 
Library basement. You can 

grab funds quick with your Resource® or Resource Plus card, or use any other bank card honored by the worldwide CIRRUS Network. 
And with other 1st Source locations at Saint Mary's Haggar College Center, U.S. 31 at Cleveland in Roseland and U.S. 23 at Ironwood, there are lots of places around campus to cash in fast! 
.-source® 
liiiiBank 
Your partners from the firsfB> 
Member FDIC 


--------~ -·"--------~------~--­
page 4 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, August 28, 1997 
"We will ask, 'How can we enhance the people we have
CaiDpaign ······ntoda
now?' We feel the faculty should 
··:;,;:.:. ··. ·i\•>· .:;... 
y

grow. We also would like to
continued from page 1 with the old ·~on~itution:
draw more professors to keep a 
tgroups were not talk·

minority students is driven by good faculty/student ratio with­each other, the Studentthe amount we can offer them," out increasing tuition," Moore was trying to programMalloy said. said. 
represent students at the
"What is just loans and work­Malloy and Hatch explained time <tnd was not doingstudy for several students right that the advantage of additional 
. We tried to take the 

now will ideally become solid endowments is that tuition then ln(Jlu<tes a uvYr: yJ"u"t~·""" . pest of the old one and mix itscholarship money," Moore pays for a smaller percentage of 
with new ideas to serve the
added. "Endowments are a nice faculty salaries; thus, an 
two basic purposes of a stu­
way of ensuring we have con­increase in endowed professor­
d.~nt government, to provide
stant funds to back up that aid." ships has no effect on tuition programming for students andConcluded Hatch. "Our goal is costs because those donations 
to represent student views on 
to have full need met." are not included in the important issues."
The campaign is already $100 University's annual operational million of the way toward meet­budget. 
the end. each associated with an established aca­ing its goal in direct student This is especially pertinent as demic institution," Link said. 
need, most having been donated the University has recently Link The institute, however. is not just meant toin the form of endowments. changed its distribution of facul­continued from page 1 "educate" people about world law but also toSmall scholarships. like those ty teaching, research and service create a "think tank." Link says that the focus ofin the Hammes Scholarship pro­time commitments, allowing The first academies will be opened in London, the forums is "getting experts together and hav­gram. have grown to encompass professors less time in the class­in affiliation with Notre Dame in the U.S. and ing dialogue about global legal transactions." 
larger geographic areas and room. 
Notre Dame's London law program, and in The institute plans to discuss both physical and more money is now available to "That translates to either larg­Moscow. in association with Emory University substantive areas, such as Asia, Eastern Europe,previously qualified students. er classes, or more professors. 
Law School and Moscow State University. Link intellectual property, and global litigation. in itsIn addition to financial aid, the We'd prefer the latter," Malloy said that the institute eventually plans to operate forums.
campaign will also focus heavily said. "Our faculty can maximize about seven such locations, each with one or two The World Law Institute will be formallyon raising funds for the con­their vast potential and meet our affiliations. in the U.S. and in the host country. launched at a Conference on World Law to bestruction of physical facilities. A high expectations." 
"We will be able to properly cover different held in October in Atlanta. with keynote speakersscience teaching facility and new Another $116.3 million will perspectives by having about seven academies in President Jimmy Carter and Mikhail Gorbachev. 
bookstore are in the planning as cover the enhancement of vari­goals of the $167 million-facet of ous University programs, both the project. on campus and abroad, includ­Other goals include work with before the first home Notre 
"The science building will be ing the new journalism concen­the convent and further explo­Dame football game. Activities
Govern 

totally devoted to undergraduate tration in the College of Arts and ration into the history and influ­for the event will include an out­education. It will address the Letters, and $37.7 million will be continued from page 1 ence of the Sisters of the Holy door showing of Scream. video question, 'What will science used to improve campus Cross. The board also has sever­making and a picnic. SAB will teaching be like in 10-15 libraries. The final $25 million women in their respective al Saint Mary's graduates in also sponsor breakfast in the years?"' Hatch said. will be added to funds for cur­majors and departments. The mind as guest lecturers for the residence halls the following 
A grant from the National rent operations, including board members are looking to upcoming year. morning. Science Foundation has added grounds up-keep and building get substantial feedback on how According to Student Activities "We really want to get the $350.000 to allow Notre Dame renovations. the upperclassmen, who have Board coordinator Katie Wehby, freshmen to be more involved," to become part of the High As it stands, Notre Dame has declared majors, feel about the the board's primary efforts are Wehby said. "We also want to be Performance Backbone Network already made history with the departments in which they are currently focused on the annual more active as a board on cam­Service, a facet of the more funds currently amassed en working. Twilight Tailgate, the night pus." 
sophisticated and swift route to the $767 million goal, Internet2. Part of Generations. although the final stage of the the grant will allow Notre Dame campaign is about to kick into to be one of 35 universities cho­high gear. Malloy explained that sen to increase technological soliciting the final 39 percent advancement on their campuses. will require a concerted effort 
Faculty development is also from University officials. strongly represented in the plan, "If we don't raise another with $153 million allotted for its dime, this still goes on record as strengthening. Much money the largest amount raised by any donated will be used to create Catholic university," he said. more endowed professorships, "But we still need to engage the but continuing education for interest and support of a broad current professors will also be range of people. It's daunting, targeted. but do-able." 

Dear MoHt aHd Dad: 

'Jttst waHted to drop a HOle to /Jet yott /lHOW tAat 3'Ht doiH~ ~reat. 3'"e ~~tot so~~te reaiJIJy awesoHte peopiJe, aHd a /Jot ol tAeHt are {;tty, ltJslJittH or 8iStJX~tttl!-ittst IJi/le ~~to. TAey're HtOHtlJers ol a stttdeHt-rttH or~aHizatioH tAat's tJeeH serlliH~ tAo caHtptts lor decades. 1Aey Aalle Shpport ~rohp ~~teetiH~S wAere 3 caH taiJ/l to peopiJe ~oiH~ tArolf~A tAo saHte tAiH~S 3 aHt. 3t reaiJIJy AeiJps. PIJ~ts, tAey do /Jots ol ::::· llfH stlfl/ too! 3H lact, tAey're AalliH~ tAeir lirst ~OHeraiJ iHIO HtOetiH~ i'::i o~t Sept. IOtA aHd tAo lirst sttpport ~rottp ~~teetiH~ OH Sept. 11tA. AIJIJ 3 ·j::. Aad to do was caiJIJ tAeir 3Hio-li~te at ?..3v -1vvl lor aiJIJ tAo detaiiJs! 
lOlltl, Me P.S.: yo,. caH aiJso cAec/l Olft tAo wetJsite at www. lndsmc.or 
MOCKLSAT SaruRaay 
Augl/ST 30 
8:00A.M. N1euwland Hall 

Szqn up zn 101 O'Shauqhnessy Hall OR ar ra!Jles zn DeBaRroro Hall on Augusr 27-29 

CANDAX McNAIR PRoGRAM 
ORGANIZATIONAL MEETING WITH PRoF. MARIO BoRELLI DIRECTOR, CANDAX 
THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 4' 1997 6:3oP.M. 
CusHING AuDITORIUM 
FOR STUDENTS INTERESTED IN GRADUATE STUDIES WHO ARE EITHER FIRST GENERATION CoLLEGE STUDENTS ON FINANCIAL Am OR FROM UNDERREPRESENTED GROUPS (BLACK, HISPANIC, NATIVE AMERICAN) 
ALL INTERESTED STUDENTS ARE WELCOME REFRESHMENTS AFTER THE MEETING 
~--------------~--~-­
Thursday, August 28, 1997 The Observer· CAMPUS NEWS page 5 
Stepan hosts summer's end ... 

The Observer/Joe Stark 

Ben Bayer, right, joined students yesterday at Stepan Center to mark the beginning of the school year at the Welcome Back Picnic. 
friends to be
• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • ~ • • • • • Mh~ry's Codllege mdobre t~a? any­
• . ._ • t mg, an wou1 e s1ttmg on back on campus for the wed­
•
• • 
• 
• 
• k'--~ • 
• www.nd.edu/-recsport • 
•••v•••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••• 
Loved ones reDleDlber Mangan 
By LORI ALLEN the edge of her seat to return ding, to be 'Belles' again." Saint Mary's Editor after semester breaks. Friends described her as 
and ALLISON KOENIG "All I can Saint Mary's News Editor say right now is that Susie's Family and friends remem­years at Saint ber 24-year-old Susie Laatz Mary's were Mangan, a 1995 graduate of the best Saint Mary's College who died years of her of complica­
life," said tions from a Neff. "She coronary said that they condition just went by way hours after too fast, and her wedding that she on July 5, as would do the quintes­anything to sential Saint get them Mary's Mangan back; she woman. couldn't wait 

independent, happy, and beautiful. They consider her death to be nothing less than a complete shock. 
"Susie and my sister were the best of friends; they shared many memories together. I only hope that the students of Saint Mary's

Sarah Neff will keep her 
According to Susie's mother, for her and mother ofSusie Mangan family in their 
Sarah Neff, Susie loved Saint all of her 
LASALLE BOOKSTORE 
Your source for the best in theological and philosophical books! 
Open House~
. 
Friday, August 29 ~~m 1:00-6:00 p.m . 
Enjoy refreshments while you explore our unique selection of books at 237 
N. Michigan (at the corner of LaSalle and Michigan) . Free parking south side . Open 10-5p.m. Mon-Fri. 234-0003 

With joy and thanksgiving The Congregation of Holy Cross Announces the perpetual profession ofvows by our brothers 
Gary S. Chamberland, C.S.C. 
Christ the King Parish, South Bend, Indiana 
Thomas P. Doyle, C.S.C. 
Keough Hall, Notre Dame, Indiana 
at a celebration of the Eucharist on Saturday, August 30, 1997 Sacred Heart Basilica 

Please join us in celebrating their lifelong commitment to God and to Holy Cross. 
thoughts and 

prayers," said senior Joya Mukerjee, whose sister Amita graduated with Mangan and was a bridesmaid in her wedding. 
"My family left a bouquet of sunflowers in the Le Mans Hall Chapel in honor of Susie," said Mukerjee. "Whenever I see a sunflower, I think of Susie; they were her favorite." 
Members of the family have started a scholarship fund in the Chicago area, in Susie's memory. According to Ken Cooke, the attorney adminis­tering the fund, the public has expressed a great deal of interest. Details on the schol­arship are pending. 
"I think that it's important for the students of Saint Mary's, especially the fresh­man, to realize how lucky they are to be there. Saint Mary's was the love of Susie's life," said Neff. 
The South Bend Tribune con­tributed to this story. 
~~--~~~--------~ 
page 6 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT Thursday, August 28 

Welcome Back Students! 
Free GEAR For Sports Notre Dame Cap with purchase of GEAR For Sports Sweatshirt, Polo, Sweater orJacket. 
8/22 Friday • 9am-7pm 8/23 Saturday • 9am-7pm 8/24 Sunday • 9am-5pm 8/25 Monday • 9am-7pm 8/26 Tuesday • 9am-8pm 8/27 Wednesday • 9am-8pm 8/28 Thursday • 9am-8pm 8/29 Friday • 9am-7pm 
GEAR 
FOR SPORTS ® 

Ask for it by name. 
The Hammes NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE 
~~on the campus'' 

~ ~ 
Thursday, August 28, 1997 The Observer· MEDICAL NEWS page 7 
Europeaq~ face. past Diet drug linked to heart damage 

By DANIEL HANEY Associated Press Writer
forced st~fiUZ•..._....... _
:·······.··.......tj; 

BOSTON Fifty-eight more cases of By ROBERT WIELAARD . ) ·"·' chapter in their past recentlY 
heart valve damage among 
Associated Press Writer .;· ·TNT after a newspaper examined 
users of fen-phen have been 
the 1935-76 involuntary ster" 

reported to the U.S. Food BRUSSELS, Belgium;; ilization program that robp~~ and Drug Administration A Belgian woman says no< 60,000 Swe.dish men an!l 
since new concerns arose one listened when she com-women of their ability to have last month about the popu­plained about being sterilized children. 
lar prescription pill combi­
against her will. A Swede Maria Nordin, from the 
nation taken by millions to desc:ribes how hard it was Swedish town of Gaevle, was lose weight. 
when colleagues would ask sterilized involuntarily Sf 
As a result, the agencywhy she never had children. . years ago atage 17 .. Qecaq~~ said Wednesday it will Women who were deemed later, it still hurts when she iS 
require new drug labels 
physically or mentally inferior asked why she never had chU· 
warning patients of the 
and were sterilized are now dren. 
potential danger. And a 
speaking out, after revela-"No matter which job I had, drug company announced a tions in Sweden drew atten• sooner or later someone new study on the medica­tion to government programs asked me why Ididn't hay~ tion's effects. 
that were common in many c}lildren/' ~he told t ····· 
The possibility that the parts of Europe. . :·:§ti:lckhoim newspaper Ex diet drugs might damageIn Belgium, Ingrid van sen in an interview publishe heart valves came to light
Butsel spent her life in Wednesday. "That vvas 
July 8, when doctors from orphanages and state hous~ incredibly difficult for me." 
the Mayo Clinic said theying. She married in 1985, hut Belgium never had the sam~ had identified 24 cases. 
only after the regional go~'t!) kind of sterilization pro 
The FDA then asked 
ernment-without giving ···· van B ~tory physicians to report any reason -pressured her i officii . t ttw· 
other patients and that 
a sterilization operation. fhe. forced sterilization •o a 
search turned up the 58 
"f could not believe my woman who was not mentally additional cases, all but two ears. I wanted children, but or physically disabled. 
of them in women. 
they said I was unsuited to Van Butsellived in govern7 How many of those cases raise children. I had a choice: ment housing for · 
were actually caused by the I could marry if I had mys omen who have no 
medicines, however, is sterilized {or) they would se 0 moriey ai'ld(e\,V skil unclear. Some doctors wondered 
me to a. psychiatric hospital. The governmentdid whether newly vigilant physi­
van Butsel. 40, said in her why it deemed her un cians might be hearing heart Wednesday's daily De to raise children and sheL 
murmurs -the telltale sound of 
Morgen. being poor and uneducated, 
bad valves -that have been 
Swedes have been forced to was not able to challenge the there all along. 
acknowledge an unflattering decision. ··· 
Fen-phen is a combination of the prescription drugs fenflu­ramine and phentermine that suppresses appetite. Both drugs are approved by the FDA for 
short-term use in dieting, although not specifically in com­bination. 
"We are not absolutely saying 
"The 06 
for people 
to a'Q 

you shouldn't use them, but following ~ 
physicians and patients need to consider the risk very carefully before going on them," said Dr. James Bilstad, a drug evaluation chief at the FDA
~ 

Given the large number of peo-ple using these drugs, the risk of heart damage is clearly low. But just how great the risk is-even whether it truly exists -cannot be determined without a careful study comparing diet pill users with overweight people who are not taking the medicines. 

Drug company officials have raised the possibility that obesity itself -not drugs to treat the condition-may actually be causing the heart problems. 
To help settle these questions, Wyeth-Ayerst Laboratories, which makes the Pondimin brand of fenfluramine, said Wednesday it will sponsor a study of 1,200 fen-phen users and others being treated for obe­sity at several institutions. 
"Recognizing that both drugs 
AP/Amy Kranz 

have been available for many years and millions of patients have taken them, we were quite surprised to have this finding, but we take it very seriously." said Dr. Marc W. Deitch, Wyeth­Ayerst's medical director. 
The FDA described its latest findings in Thursday's issue of the New England Journal of Medicine. 
Fenfluramine is chemically similar to Redux, another popu­lar appetite suppressant that came on the market last year. 
The FDA said it had also learned of four cases of heart valve damage in Redux users. There also were two in patients taking fenfluramine alone and two in patients taking Redux plus phenterrnine. 
1~trrR~t.1tiS 
'd in developing erver Online rst Campus Online Paper 
CALL 1·8839 
~ 
~~ 


1998-99 
Attention Current Seniors!!!!! 
If you are interested in graduate study and research abroad, don't miss the informational meeting 
THURSDAY, AUGUST 28 -7:00 p.m. 126 DeBartolo with Professor Alain Toumayan, Advisor 
r------------------------,
SPECIAL 
SET OF NAILS 
Just $30 
with Coupon 
Fill ins $20 
During your first-time visit 
With

N•A•I•L•S 
Student 

Kim Lee system from 
ID

California, no glue all acrylic closed mondays
regular $55 limited time $45 

THE NAIL STUDIO 
AT THE CASTLE 
272-0312 272-8471 

State Rd. 23 at Ironwood next to
If you are unable to aU:~J!·tl{tbis m•eetm~,;i~ in 102-B·<t:JS~Jilallg~ Subway C:"s~J ~-~ 
Just minutes from campus! ID!BH .. ;, " .·~ ·"' 1
L 

VIEWPOINT 
page 8 Thursday, August 28, 1997 
THE OBSERVER 

NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1997-98 General Board 

Editor-in-Chief Brad Prendergast Managing Editor Business Manager Jamie Heisler Tom Roland Assistant Managing Editor 
Dan Cichalski News Editor ...........................Heather Cocks Advertising Manager.............................. Jed Peters Viewpoint Editor ....................... Kelly Brooks Ad Design Manager ..................... Jennifer Breslow Sports Editor ................................ Mike Day Production Manager. ........................ Mark DeBoy Accent Editor ........................... Joey Crawford Systems Manager........ .Michael Brouillet 
Saint Mary's Editor ........................ Lori Allen Controller. ................... . ................. Kyle Carlin Photo Editor ........................... Katie Kroener 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by rhe students ofrhe Universiry of Notre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration ofeither insrirurion. The news is reporred as accurardy and objecriveJy as possib]e. Unsigned ediroriaJs represent rhe opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Sports Editor, Accent Editor, Saint Mary's Editor, Photo Editor, and Associate News Editor. Commentaries, lerrers and Inside Columns present the views of the amhors, and not neces· sarily those ofThe Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of rhe Notre Dame/Saint Mary's communicy and to all readers. The free expression of varying opinions through leners is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 

Editor-in-Chief  631-4542  Business Office  631-5313  
Managing Editor  631-4541  Advertising  631-6900/8840  
News/Photo  631-5323  Systems  631-8839  
Sports  631-4543  Office Manager  631-7471  
Accent/Saint Mary's  631-4540  Fax  631-6927  
Day EditorNiewpoinr  631-5303  Viewpoint E-Mail  Viewpoint.I@nd.edu  
General Information  631-7471  Ad E-Mail  observer@darwin.cc.nd.edu  


• TABLE TALK 
A Message to the Freshman 
Last year, as many upperclassmen will remember. an unspecified number of pranksters "beheaded" the striking red and blue sculpture in South Quad. The incident itself probably received 
Mick Swiney 

greater public attention than was nec­essary, but in any case succeeded in causing a decent-sized controversy on campus, for which this paper often served as an arena. I hope it doesn't seem in bad taste to bring this tragic affair up again, now that it has taken refuge in Notre Dame's extensive histo­ry. 
But in writing this I don't refer so much to the incident itself as to the campus-wide debate that followed. Many students were horrified at what they saw to be an attack on all forms of art by the Philistines of Notre Dame. Other students cheered the perpetra­tors as revolutionaries, for taking action against a ridiculous-looking con­traption that had no place in the midst of so beautiful a campus. Both were probably wrong; the deed was most likely motivated by nothing more com­plex than the very Notre Dame need for entertainment. 
But it is this last group of students who concerns me at the start of this new school year. As I mentioned, I heard many of this faction applauding the pranksters because the sculpture "didn't belong on this campus." 
Well, look at it! 
Here you have dignified buildings such as Riley and Cushing, here you have the stately O'Shaugnessy and the impressive DeBartolo. Here you have the natural beauty of the Mestrovic memorial with its grove of trees; here you have the luscious beauty of the South Quad lawns, their greenery and artful network of walkways. 
And there ... there you have what looks like a meager survivor of a junk yard, painted bright colors for greater visibility, with a very eighties-looking weather vane on top. A bent one. 
That such a sculpture is incongruous I cannot hope to deny. It looks like it belongs somewhere in Miami; certainly not on one the eminent campus of one of the finest-and most traditional ­universities in this country. 
But just for the sake of argument, I'm going to take a deeper stab at why so many students were glad to see the sculpture vandalized. 
As hopeful applicants to Notre Dame, we were most likely drawn in by the awesome community this institution nurtures. The unity of the "Notre Dame family" is without question the most phenomenal characteristic of this school; it is one that spans generations and covers most of the world, it is unique both in the extent of its history and in the fact that it thrives still today. 
I admit that I took one look at all of this communal integrity and rich tradi­tion, and I wanted in. We all did, for members of this family are never dis­owned; we are children of out Alma Mater, and we will never forget our lin­eage. 
When you want something as good as this as badly as most of us have, you can sometimes make a grave mistake. 
You can sometimes long for and pur­sue something deeper than member­ship, deeper even than family ... you can sometimes seek assimilation. 
Most of us prefer to call it 'conformi­ty,' and all of us are susceptible to it. How many times have I passed over an outfit in my closet, one I would com­fortably have worn at home, but one which here seemed somewhat ... out of place? 
How many times have I shaved down my own likes and dislikes, my own interests and curiosities to avoid dis­cord with the preferences of others? 
How many times have I remained silent on various conversation topics, not for lack of opinion, but for uncer­tainty of how my opinion will be received? 
I am guilty of trying to mold myself to fit in more appropriately with the beau­tiful old buildings, the orderly and well­groomed quads, I am guilty of assimi­lating myself to what I presumed to be Notre Dame standards for how I should look, act, feel, and even think. I have taken offense to anything or anyone who did not do as I have done, I have presumed them to love their Alma Mater less for not conforming to her standards. 
I am susceptible. and I don't think it outrageous to suggest that many of this family's newest members arc, too. So listen up, freshmen -here's a bit of unsolicited advice: 
You're here. If you're reading this now, chances are that you have been accepted to the University of Notre Dame and have decided to attend. That means that. .. 
You're in. Period. End of story. If you are here, you are part of the com­munity. These dignified buildings, these stately monuments, these beauti­ful quads ... they are yours. The dome? That's yours too. All of this, from now until the day you die and beyond, belongs to you. You have paid for it with years of sweat and hard work, and you would not have been accepted if you hadn't earned it. You are part of the family now, and no one is going to turn you away. But most importantly ... 
We need you. How many times have I softened the sharp angles and rough edges of my personality, so as to slide comfortably into Notre Dame society? How many times have I worked to con­
• IJOONESBURY GARRY TRUDEAU 
KIMMY, I CAN7E£TOV£1< IK¥(fllfAIJlllii->OURt<~&~?­
OIM9 tuA5. I JUSTtfJISH 
I?EilR AI/NTA6GI& RX:R COJLJ)H4V£5i£N fT.I 
vincc myself that I was someone else, the Ideal Notre Dame Student, who likes all the right songs, wears all the right clothes, and voices all the right opinions? Don't make the same mis­take! 
There is no Ideal Notre Dame Student, at least not in regards to clothes, music, or politics. The ideal Domer is the one who loves his or her own incongruities, who appreciates his or her own differences and originality; the ideal Domer does NOT conform. 
Good news-that's you! You're already the ideal Domer. and you've only been here a week. 
Now don't mess with it. Don't change yourself to suit me, because we're all siblings in this family, and I don't have the right-or the desire -to shut you out of it based on how you differ from me. So be yourself, say what you mean and mean what you say. Some of us will like you, and some of us won't; luckily for all concerned, the feelings will almost always be mutual in each case. 
So don't sweat it. To be part of the living, breathing community here at Notre Dame, we need you to be as strange and messed-up looking red­and-blue spinning-arrow head as you want, and don't worry about the state­ly, dignified, throat-clearing buildings around you. Being a part of this histo­ry and tradition would be a waste if it was bought at the expense of your own free and creative spirit. 
After all, if crazy twisted red-and­blue sculptures didn't exist on this campus, what on earth would Notre Dame students have to talk about? 
Mick Swiney is a junior Arts and Letters Major. He can be reached by e­mail at mark.d.swiney.3@nd.edu. His column appears every other Thursday. The views expressed in this column are not necessarily those of The Observer. 
• QuoTE OF THE DAY 
"Move the JACC for­ward." 
-Senior, heard Wednesday morning outside the Joyce Center while in line for football tickets. 
-~~ --~----~ 
------------------------------~ 
VIEWPOINT
Thursday, August 28, 1997 page 9 
• POSTCARDS fROM MEXICO 
A Different World: Graduate School South of the Border 
I hate feeling like a freshman. I got lost on campus last week looking for the registrar's office and ended up on the second floor of the dentistry building instead, trying to convince myself that leaving my hometown of Michigan Center. Michigan for a school almost ninety times larger than our total popu­lation was somehow a good idea. I finally had to take a taxi to get to where I was going. 
Bernadette Pampuch 
I should probably point out that I am not on the Notre Dame or Saint Mary's campus but somewhere infinitely larger and more prone to having taxis roaming around. The Universidad Nacional Autunoma de Mexico, also known as Mexico's national university. 
In a lot of ways, UNAM is just a nor­mal university, if your idea of normal involves a campus so large that it takes up almost three stops on the Mexico City subway and you have 260,000 fellow students to contend with every morning. 
Two hundred and sixty thousand stu­dents. Let's stop and think about this for a minute. The largest class I ever took before graduating from Saint Mary's last year was a biology lecture with about 65 students in it. One of my senior seminar English classes had 12 students. and I knew every one by name, and I used to think it was strange that my friends at Notre Dame had to contend with these strange things called "teaching assistants." 
It's very easy to get lost in the system here, which I proved the week I tried to register. I was sent to the International Student Office, which sent me to the Academic Exchange Office, which sent me to the Graduate Office (this is the point where I accidentally wander into the dentistry building), which sent me to the Department of Philosophy and Literature, which was only open until one in the afternoon so I had to try it again another day after all. On day two of registering for classes I was lucky enough to remember where I was going but not lucky enough to be at the head of the line, and after two hours of wait­ing, I had to come back the next day. Three days later I was finally ready for class, and the person standing next to me in line (who had to come back the next day after the office closed behind me) told me that I was lucky to get in so quick. 
The size of everything here really is overwhelming. The longest it ever took me to get from LeMans Hall to the Notre Dame Library on the shuttle was about fifteen minutes. A trip around the out­skirts of UNAM is a little over an hour and still misses a good two-thirds of the campus. The shuttles that run here are free too, but I usually have to fight little old ladies and fussy engineering stu­dents with very sharp pencils poking out of their pocket protectors to be one of the lucky few to cram myself onto the bus and not have to hang outside. 
Getting to UNAM in the first place is an adventure in itself. I was fairly used to rolling out of bed at 8:55 a.m. for a 
9:00 class at Saint Mary's, putting a sweatshirt on over my pajamas and run­ning to a building located right next door. These days I have a half-hour ride on something called a "pesero" (Spanish for "little bus from hell driven by some­one who is blind and disregards all approaching cars"), fighting traffic and smog so thick that sometimes it's easy to forget why I left the pristine wilderness 
• GUEST COMMENTARY 

ND Grad Reflects on 
Community After the 
Murder of Officer 
The policeman who was murdered. Saturday night, August 23. had been a guard in the St. Joseph Countyjail during the time I was the assistant chaplain. He was the policeman l could best relate to on the streets. He went out of his way to honor my work of ministry. He was a police· man who believed that it was impor­tant to preach the Gospel to the very type of person who murdered him. 
How ironic that I also knew the 16 year-old boy accl.lSed of murdering Paul Deguch. I knew the boy's moth·< er. She was often a prisonerin the jail. Ijust a,sked ber about her 16 year-old son less than a month ago~ next to the house where the murder took place. At thattime 
me to stay in ~ .... ···-~· regarding could I ,v ti1 hl~i't'row· th:at is accu Naturally. h1.~.'•Q'tieisW'>rflihis raises is why great hostility black men towards Whoever murdered· most likely hated him and police in general. A 20 year-old black girl, who was raised in the same neighborhood and a relative of the accused, offered me this reason, "The police have too much power. and they too often abuse that power." She also complained, "When a policeman is killed he receives ten times more public attention and sympathy than when a normal citi­zen gets killed. A policeman's death is front page newsfor days, the flag is flown at half-mast, and the funer" 

of Michigan for the biggest, most pollut­dred and eighty-three buildings on cam­ed city in the world. pus. Twenty-two thousand computers, 
It has something to do with needing to 164 libraries, 68 professional programs, see a different side of the world. It is a seven technical programs, 82 specializa­very, very diverse set of students I find tions, 121 masters degrees and 46 doc­myself with here, something I was never torate programs. I am sure I will get really exposed to in South Bend. There over the feeling of being lost soon. I is a woman about sixty-five years old in remember feeling the same way when I one of my literature classes, and seven­was wandering around Notre Dame with teen-year-aids in some of the under­a map in my hands looking for the graduate programs. Everyone seems to library the first time, and h-ow stupid I be politically active, either radically felt when I sat down in the wrong class right-wing or frightfully conservative. freshman year. If college in the United Crime is a problem, several attacks all States taught me anything at all, it was over UNAM every day, which probably that I will eventually find my place here 
· has something to do with the economic and be confident enough to understand status of the students. Very few people it all. here could afford $20,000 a year in In the meantime, I have to go find the tuition at Notre Dame or Saint Mary's, billing office. If I'm not back in three but they are all lucky enough to have days, please contact the American access to higher education in a place Embassy. that benefits from an academic environ­ment fed by people who don't always Bernadette Pampuch, Saint Mary's have the money to eat every day. '97. is a graduate literature student at Consider that the next time you look UNAM this year with a scholarship from around your computer class and listen Rotary International. Please send e­to people talking about whether or not mail to bpampuch@hotmail.com. Her they have enough money to fly to the column appears every other Thursday Bahamas for Spring Break. The views expessed in this column are In total, there are 55,143,062 square not necessarily those ofThe Observer. meters of campus at UNAM. Four hun­
• lETTER To THE EDITOR 

The Dange~ Zone: 02 Parking Permits 
In my three years here at this University I have pondered many of the decisions made by the so called "logical" administration. I questioned the logic behind mov­ing the administration offices from the center of campus to its outskirts and why the administration would wait to renovate South Dining Hall until during the school year, but I figured that there must be some quasi-logical explanations for these questions. I have given the administration the benefit of the doubt on many of their decisions for the campus concerning the welfare and safety of the stu­dents. However, the most recent decision made by the University and Campus Security makes absolutely no sense, whatsoever! 
Not only is the new parking policy outright sexist, but it is quite illogical. For those who are unfamiliar with the new policy, to obtain a parking pass for D6 one must fall in one of three categories. Either you have to be a woman residing in any of the South Quad dorms, including Walsh, be a South Quad senior male, or live in Carroll. Since Carroll inhabitants and seniors still living on Campus repre­sent a small minority of students, the real beneficiaries of this new policy are South Quad and God Quad women. The new parking policy is sexist and directly discriminates against South Quad junior and sophomore males. 
What is the reason for this new policy? After arguing with the campus security worker after she had given me my new parking sticker and told me that I would now have to walk 20 minutes to get to my car, I was told that this was done for the safety ofa,.the women on campus. I was informed that walking across campus from D2 was too dangerous for women. I was initially pleased to realize how much campus security thought of my safety, considering that I would have to make that same dangerous walk. 
I do not want to focus on the sexism of this new policy but rather its ludicrous­ness. If Notre Dame wants to be hypocritical by encouraging men to treat women as equal_s and then go and treat women like the weaker gender, that is the University's own business. I am sure that every woman on this campus is capable of parking in D2 and walking safely back to their residence. Furthermore, Juniper Road is not that dangerous; and if women feel scared, isn't that what we have Safe Walk for? 
We must start a campaign to have campus security do something about this. I want guards patrolling the middle of the lawn; I want snipers perched in the bells of the basilica; I want video cameras set up on the statue of Jesus! We must pro­tect our women! This is the center of our campus and we must make it safe! After all, the President of the University resides in Sorin Hall which is located in the most dangerous section of our campus. Since campus security's new parking policy has determined that this area is too dangerous for women to walk across, perhaps we should build a separate library near D6, on the "safe side" of campus for female inhabitants of South Quad. This way they would not have to walk through this danger zone every time they go to study. 
In my three-year stay at Notre Dame, I never even knew our campus was so unsafe until I went to pick up my parking pass. Am I the only one who thought that the University would be rational and grant parking passes based on a non­sexist, logical method, such as class seniority? Now that I realize a safety issue concerning the campus's Danger Zone is the motive of this new policy, I am not as worried about my 20 minute walk to D2 as I am about living 3 minutes away from the most dangerous area on campus. 
JOE HAND Junior, Dillon Hall 

page 10 
Thursday, August 28, 1997 
• 
trtrtr

OaSIS Be Here Now 
(out of five stars) 


0 
asis, the band that proclaimed themselves "even bigger than the Beatles," released their third album, Be 1/ere Now, on Tuesday to somewhat mixed reviews. One listen and it is easy to see why the band did not receive the same critical success that they received for their previous efforts. In order to wane the com­parisons to the legendary band, they dropped their poppiness in exchange for bizarre guitar lines and garbled lyrics. The average song length spans just over seven minutes which gives the album a sense of wandering that any Wim Wenders character would be proud of, but on the other hand, leaves the listener wondering if Oasis has any direction or drive besides Nautica or lager. 
Part of the problem with Oasis is the fact that Noel -and Liam Gallagher are two very attention-starved individuals. And when you mix these two individu­als together you get absolute chaos and disorder; thus the result is an album like Be 1/ere Now. Be 1/ere Now, however is not a total failure. Their first single off the album "D'you Know What I Mean?" is an exceptional song that experiments with a variety of new sounds and instrumentation. The piereing irony of the ballad "Don't Go Away," sheds new light on the relationship between the Gallagher brothers. It is quite apparent why there is such strain when the younger brother Liam sings his older brother's songs of lost love and heartache. Can you say puppet? It becomes even more ironic when you look at the songs as testaments to this strain. "Magic Pie" and "The Girl in the Dirty Shirt," are also worthy endeavors that are reminscent of their sophomore effort. 
I'm sure hundreds of thousands of Be Here Now albums will sell in the United States alone, but don't be one of the numbers. If it's Brit rock you like try Pulp or Radiohead and give up the pretentiousness. And Oasis, there are worse bands to be compared to than the Beatles and longer is definitely not better, "D'You Know What I Mean?" Lose the attitude. 
by Joey Crawford 
prodigy 
tctc!X

The Fat of the Land 
(out of five stars) 

reef 

.. 


A 
bout five years ago the Prodigy were quite simply one of the very worst dance acts 
around; the horrible memory of their first 
hit, "Charly," still lingers, and it seemed they were destined for mediocrity. An average sec­ond album followed, and now we find ourselves faced with a third release and a reinvented band. Gone are the cute melodies and appalling samples, and in their place comes an aggressive combination of techno and punk -the ghost of the Sex Pistols lurks throughout the album. 
Starting off with a track perhaps not destined to become a feminist classic, "Smack My Bitch Up" is relatively enjoyable but quickly superseded by the excellent "Breathe," the rasping second best offering on the album. The highlight of the whole thing is, of course, "Firestarter," an epic, sprawling techno anthem which has deserved its huge success as a single (and memorable video). Also worthy of men­tion are the instrumental "Climbatize," a welcome break from the sometimes tiresome vocals, and "Funky Shit," which is, well, funky. 
Glow 

R
eef is not a typical British pop band. Their gritty style and bluesy melodies alternately suggest influence from bands as diverse as the Rolling Stones and Soundgarden. In 1994. the band, then named Naked. signed a deal with Sony music to produce an album. They renamed themselves Reef (an indication of the habits of some members of the band) and released their first album, entjtled "Replenish." That album includ­ed the song "N'aked," which Sony used in its mini­disc commercials. But. unlike many one-hit supers­tars, Heefs second album is better than their first. On their second album in as many years, this twenty­something quartet from Glastonbury, England has worked with the producer of The Black Crowes and had a guest appearance by studio keyboardist Benmont Tench of Tom Petty and the Heartbreakers. The recording process for this album brought them from their home soil. all the way to Southern California, where the band was introduced to the urgent intensity of Creedance Clearwater Revival. This influence is obvious in the gospel feel of the first 
Considering the massive hyperbole which sur­rounded the long awaited release of this album. there is little to support the view that it is an instant classic. Only "Firestarter" and "Breathe" are really good, and the work as a whole is let down by awful­ness in the form of "Diesel Power" and "Fuel My Fire." In places the Prodigy seem to be trying too hard to be trendy and controversial; for example, "Serial Thrilla" is just what you would expect them to do on the much traveled murderer road. and therefore not shocking at all, and "Narayan," featur­ing Kula Shaker's Crispian Mills, verges on the pre­tentious. All this leads to occasional boredom on the part of the listener, and in terms of the competition the Prodigy have a long way·to go .to catch up with the brilliance of the Chemical Brothers. In the words of Public Enemy, "don't believe the hype." 
by Julian Elliott 
tc~c:t~l 
(out of five stars) 

track, "Place Your Hands," which has launched the band as a very successful single MTV staple in the United States. The song, which vocalist Gary Stringer wrote about coping with the death of his grandfather is matched in emotion on the album only by the quiet, understated ballad, "Consideration." Those two songs, along with the driving rock-and-roll song, "Come Back Brighter," established the band's top spot on the British charts before "Place Your llands" achieved buzz clip status on MTV in the U.S. While those three songs may be the strongest tracks on the album, the rest are played with fiery intensity that explains why audiences at the band's live shows usu­ally feel the need to strip naked and dance wildly. Overall, this is a solid album from a band that has already conquered the UK with its infectious grooves. An added feature from Sony is that the CD contains a multimedia section of music videos, still pictures, biographies and a sample of "Heplenish." 
by Matthew Loughran 

Thursday, August 28, 1997 The Observer • SPORTS page 11 
• U.S. OPEN -
Bruguera and Ferreira move on to second round 
By BOB GREENE He had a 2-0 lead in sets over French Open in 1993 and '94. attending the champions' din­ured. Associated Press Writer Spain's Javier Sanchez in a He went from No. 3 in the ner. But when the others They didn't figure on 
first-round match at world to 81 before rebounding walked from a tent on one side Campbell's heart, nor his 
NEW YORK Wimbledon before losing 14-12 this year. of the facility to the red brick quickness, and Agassi needed 
Spaniards Sergi Bruguera in the fifth set. Tebbutt, a left-hander who stadium on the other side, four sets to win 6-1, 6-1, 4-6, and Alberto Berasategui fol­In women's second-round had to battle his way through Agassi disappeared. 6-3. lowed similar U.S. Open scripts matches, eighth-seeded Anke qualifying to reach the main "A situation arose that I "You can't expect to just run -only from different results. Huber of Germany beat Janet draw, used his big serve to needed to make a call," Agassi over anybody," Agassi said. 
The sev­
Lee of Rancho Palos Verdes, control the points in pounding said after his first-round match "The bottom line was I was enth-ranked Calif., 6-2, 6-1; Magdalena out a 2-0 sets lead. But his Tuesday night. "Quite honestly, working him to death because Bruguera Maleeva of Bulgaria rallied to serving percentage collapsed it was very disappointing for he was playing to win. Then, dropped the defeat Lisa Raymond of Wayne, from 61 percent in the second me not to be there. But some­after the first two sets, I think first two sets Pa., 3-6, 6-2, 6-4; South set to only 42 percent in the times priorities call, and I he realized he wasn't going to at the new Africa's Joannette Kruger third as Bruguera began a missed out. I was more disap­win and just stepped it up and Arthur Ashe stopped Henrieta Nagyova of comeback with his precise pointed than anybody else." started making shots. Stadium Slovakia 6-4, 7-6 (7-4); Italy's groundstrokes. When asked if he could more "He got himself into a posi­today before Flora Perfetti downed Sarah Tuesday night, Andre Agassi specific about the "situation," tion to where the third set got rallying to Agassi Pitkowski of France 6-4, 3-6, 6-finally showed up at Arthur he curtly auswered "No." close, got a little tight, and I beat qualifier 3; Natasha Zvereva of Belarus Ashe Stadium. But he was there Tuesday made a couple errors at the Michael Tebbutt of Australia 3-beat Japan's Naoko Sawamatsu The 1994 U.S. Open winner night, in his element, on wrong time." 6, 4-6, 6-3, 6-2. 6-2. 6-4, 3-6, 6-3, and Thailand's skipped Monday night's dedica­Stadium court with the crowd Campbell, naturally, saw it Berasategui won the first two Tamarine Tanasugarn defeated tion of the new 22,54 7 -seat sta­roaring both for and against differently. sets before losing to Australian Maria Alejandro Vento of dium, missing the greatest line­him. He won, but he took a lit­"He totally took my serve Wayne Ferreira 6-7 (0-7), 2-6, Venezuela 6-4, 6-3. up of champions ever assem­tle longer than he expected to away from me" in the first two 6-3,6-1,6-3. Denmark's Kenneth Carlsen bled -37 of them -who gain a second-round berth. sets, he said. "The harder I 
Both Bruguera and Ferreira also advanced into the second stood on the court to pay trib­After all, Agassi's first-round served, the harder he hit the moved into the second round round by defeating Tuomas ute to the man whose name opponent was Steve Campbell return back. So I just tried to with their extended victories. Ketola of Finland 6-2, 6-3, 6-1. adorns the centerpiece of the of Detroit, who is ranked 130th make some adjustments in the 
Tebbutt can be excused if he Bruguera's career has been $247 million National Tennis in the world and received a third set, tried to mix up skips Spain on his next hampered by a string of Center renovation. wild card into the main draw. speeds on my serves. That European tour. injuries since he won the Agassi was there earlier, Cannon fodder, the pundits fig-started to work a bit." 
The Observer accepts classitleds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. 
Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classitleds must be prepaid. The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
Classifieds 
Rooms for rent  Bd & Brit all football weekends  94 GLX Jetta V6, 47K Power,  Trade:2 Ga. Tech. GAs. Need BC  $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$  
NOTICES  237-1919 ----------------EARLY  near campus call 219·272·5989  Leather, Sun-Roof, 5 Speed, Many Extras. 1 Owner  or USC.243-9028  STUDENT FOOTBALL TICKET  
CHILDHOOD DEVELOPMENT  ROOMS IN PRIVATE HOME FOR  $15,500 277-3199  CERTIFICATE WANTED!!!  
5 ROOMS AVAILABLE IN PRI­ CENTER  FOOTBALL WEEKENDS AND  NEED SINGLE GA TICKET TO  CALL PAUL@ 233-1741  
VATE HOME; NICELY DECORAT­ The Early Childhood Development  OTHER ND-SMC EVENTS.  92 Accord LX 2 Dr. V-4,  ANY NO GAME  
ED. LOCATED LESS THAN 2  Center at Notre Dame (ECDC-ND)  VERY CLOSE TO CAMPUS • 5  72,000K Power, Auto, 1 Owner  PLEASE HELP 634-2454  $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$  
MILES FROM CAMPUS. CONTIN.  located at 18680 Bulla Road and  MIN. DRIVE OR 15-20 MIN. WALK.  Good Shape $8,500 277-3199  
BRKFST. INCL. CALL KIM NOW  the Early Childhood Development  243-0658.  I have 2 Ga. Tech Gas I need 2  
277-8340.  Center at Saint Mary's College  THE STEP for step aerobics  USC GAs. Will trade or pay$$.  GEORGIA TECH GA's WANTED!!!  
(ECDC-SMC) located in Havican  ROOMMATE NEEDED. PREFER  w/pylons $45 234-5378  Paul233-1741  
Bed and Breakfast for NO games.  Hall are currently accepting applica­ F, UPPER GLASSMAN OR GRAD  Please call Chris @ 634-4464  
Private home 2 miles from stadium.  tions from college students for part  STUDENT. FURN. APT. 10 MIN  FOR SALE: A custom crafted,  I have 2 Georgia Tech GA's. Will  
Private baths.  time positions. The hours vary,  TO CAMPUS. MONTHLY OR  varnished, solid oak-wood  exchange for 2 USC GA's. Call Rob  
272-9471  including 11:30 a.m.· 1:05 p.m.,  SHORT TERM AVAIL.  FUTON w/ cover. Sits as a  h(214)351-6775  
MWF and 12:30-1:30 p.m., MWF  $300/MO. (ALL INCL.)  couch and folds into a double  WANTED-2 GAs FOR USC  w(214}855-1180.  
Need spending money? I'm looking  and 4:30­ PG. 282-5575.  sized bed. Call Greg Leone @  Family visiting-will pay big bucks  
for responsible, earlY' risers1o dehv· er newspapers. There's a $15  ·6:00p.m. M•F. If you are inteneste<t in applying please contact Cindy  THAT PRETTY PLACE, Bed and  272-0915. Priced at $750.00.  for best seats. Call Jon-634-2028  PERSONAL  
bonus for the first week. Call Drew  Hestad at ECDC-SMC, 284·4693 or  Breakfast Inn has space available  
at 4-0601.  Thayer Kramer at ECDC-ND, 631­ for football/parent wknds. 5 Rooms  88 Pontiac Grand Am/99,000 mi..  FOOTBALL CONCESSION STAND  
3344 for more information and an  with private baths, $70-$90,  Black 2-dr with Cassette/Radio,  Two Georgia Tech football tickets  OPERATORS: Packets are now  
THE PRIMROSE PATH BED &  application.  Middlebury, 30 miles from campus.  air.cond., new trans., and good  for sale. 271-8361  available in the Student Activities  
BREAKFAST-LOCATED 15 MIN­ Toll Road, Exit #107,  exterior/interior. Call Ray @ 232­ Office, 315 LaFortune. Packets  
UTES NORTH OF CAMPUS HAS  VOLUNTEERS NEEDED  1-800-418-9487.  5610.  NOTRE DAME  must be picked up by FRIDAY,  
OPENINGS FOR FOOTBALL  The Early Childhood Development  FOOTBALL TICKETS  AUG. 29. If you are not sure if  
WEEKENDS. LOVELY HISTORIC INN. FULL ELEGANT BREAK­ Center, located at Saint Mary's College and the University of Notre  NICE FURNISHED HOUSE NORTH OF NO GOOD NEIGH­ TICKETS  BUY -SELL -TRADE  your organization has a stand, call 631-7308.  
FASTS. 4 GUEST ROOMS. AIC,  Dame is looking for volunteers who  BORHOOD CLOSE TO CAMPUS  232-0058  
CABLE TV. 2 NIGHTS REQUIRED.  enjoy young children. If you would  2773097  I NEED GA TIXS ALL NO  CLASS  
$80-$100. CALL 616·695·6321  be interested in spending 2 hours a  HOME GAMES.272-6551  CONFIDENTIAL  OF  
week reading children's books,  ENTIRE FURNISHED HOME FOR  TICKET-MART, INC.  1998  
Shamrock Network Design, an  building with blocks, and singing  FOOTBALL WEEKENDS 2773097  NO FAN NEEDS TICKET FOR  FREE WINGS @ BW-3  
Internet marketing firm based in  songs with children, please call  11/22 GAME WITH WV. PLEASE  BUY/SELL NO SEASON AND INDI­ 7pm  
South Bend, has full, part-time, and  Thayer Kramer at 631-3344  FURNISHED ROOM, AIR,  CALL 304/465-0775. WILL PAY  VIDUAL GAME TICKETS.  Other Specials  
internship positions available.  (ECDC-ND) or Cindy Hestad at  KITCHEN, PHONE, 3 MIN. N. OF  FOR CALL.  674-7645.  
Areas include Internet technology,  284·4693 (ECDC-SMC).  CAMPUS. 272-0615.  
marketing, graphic design, and  Please join our fun filled days.  NEED: 2 tix-Mich. State game-Sept.  BUYING BUYING BUYING  FREE FACIAL & MKOVR  
accounting. Contact  For rent for the academic year-or  20. Will pay $$. Call Paul­ N.D GAONLY  wl Mary Kay Call Margrette  
paul@snd.com or call 234-SND1  ''''INTERESTED IN MAKING  semester or family football weekend  (773)525-9373.  SEASON TICKETS 277-1659  2845099  

 EXTRA MONEY""  apartment 1 mile from NO, 2 bdrms,  BUYING BUYING BUYING  
Part-time sales/marketing position  LARGE PHYSICAL THERAPY  living room, kitchen, utility room, 1  NEED GEORGIA TECH TICKETS  B-Tostal97'-South Quad ladies  
available with eduiNFO, a South  PRACTICE LOOKING FOR STU­ 1/2 baths, wid, stove, refrig. Very  CALL AMY: 616-473-5825  say your prayers!  
Bend Internet company. Contact  DENTS TO MAKE  safe area. Ford, 277 -5828/631·  GA'S SEASON TIX GA's WANT­ 
Paul (neuner@snd.com or 246­ FOLLOW-UP PHONE CALLS TO  5118.  WILL BUY 2 GA TX 4 GA TECH  ED BY LOCAL COMPANY  HAPPY 21st JOMOL  
0117)  SEE HOW OUR PATIENTS ARE  (312}744-8794  PLEASE CALL 273-6929  : >0  
ILOST & FOUND I  DOING. FILING & COMPUTOR ENTRY ALSO AVAILABLE. FLEXIBLE  FOR SALE  NEED 2 BOSTON COLLEGE TICKETS (904)398-6146  -from the Frog Woman  
HOURS.  DRUMS  Buying GA's seasons or individual  ATTENTION: GAY, LESBIAN,  
A PAIR OF RED PRESCRIPTION  CALL GERARD OR DOUG NOW!  28" bass drum good condition­ $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$  games. Top dollar paid.  and BISEXUAL STUDENTS,  
SUNGLASSES FOUND IN JULY  '"233·5754'"  50.00  NEED 2 GA TICKETS  Confidential service.  FACULTY and STAFF:  
WHILE WALKING AROUND ST.  2 trap cases at 45.00 ea.  TO BOSTON COLLEGE  Call 234-5650.  
JOSEPH LAKE ON NO CAMPUS. COME IN TO THE OBSERVER  FOR RENT  Electronic equipment: Crate Speaker  (904)398-6146 $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$  New Year, New Night, New Leadership, New Attitude!!!!  
OFFICE AT 314 LAFORTUNE OR  Traynor 4200 Mixer Amplifier  
CALL  WALK TO CAMPUS  Octapad  NO FOOTBALL TICKETS  The ORIGINAL campus group  
631-7471 & ASK FOR SHIRLEY.  2-5 BEDROOM HOMES  Roland Rhythm Composer TR727  FOR SALE  will hold it's first Info Meeting on  
$195/PERSON  Korg 005 dynamic digital drums  NEED 3  DAYTIME#: 232-2378  Wed. Sept. 10th, ?PM  
WANTED  232-2595  Korg KMP68 Midi Patch Bay 3 foot table and power strip  GA. TECH TX (GA or student)  EVENING#: 288-2726  Our first Support Group Meeting:  
Total: 1,000 firm  will pay$$$  Wed. Sept 17th, 7PM  
PART-TIME WORK  PART TIME CUSTOMER RELA­ Call 631':.4873 or 2723987  please call Justin  NO TICKETS WANTED  
Local company filling 15  TIONS  273-9422  DAYTIME#: 232-2378  Call 236-9661 for details!  
openings by sept. 7. Earn  On-Call positions available  Brass bed, queen size with orthope­ EVENING#: 288-2726  
$10.25 starting. Flexible hours  evenings 5-9 Mon.-Fri. and/or 1 0·  dic Mattress set and frame. New,  Man. that South Bend Tribune's got  
around classes. 282-2357  6:30 on weekends. Our busy call  never used, still in plastic. $225.00.  HELP!!! Devoted Notre Dame Fan  FOR SALE  a great sports section!  
center is looking for candidates with  219-862-2082.  needs FIVE GAs for the Georgia  
PHONE RECEPTIONIST  excellent phone skills and a desire  Tech Game! Call510) 551 8292.  N.D. G.A.'S  How do you say DeGroovy?  
Part-time afternoons. $5/hr. 2·3  to satisfy customers. Starting pay is  2.8 cu. ft. dorm refrigerator. $45.  AskforTom!  
days per week. Call 12-1 pm 282­2341.  $8.80 per hour for evenings and $9.05 per hour on weekends. Apply  Call 272-3753 after 5 pm.  Need GA's to home games  271-9412.  Y'all are crazy man.  - 
LOOKING FOR A COOL JOB?  at Qualex Inc., a wholly owned sub­ '85 Pontiac stationwagon. Great  Will sell or trade Navy or W.V.  hey there 3a, waz up!! did you  
Webmasters, graphic designers,  sidiary of Eastman Kodak. 921  condition. Perfect tailgater.  GA's. Call Justin at x1722  WANTED N D G A'S  know that even though we are  
database specialists call Chris at 1­ Louise St., South Bend, IN 46615.  $1 ,400/obo. 272-5132.  TO ALL HOME GAMES  sophs we are still the fresh? isn't  
5610.  We support a drug free workplace.  I need 1 Ml State GA. Please call  271 1526  that a wierd thingy? isn't it wierd  
EOE  For Sale -1993 Honda Sports  Travis@ 219-634-1651.  when you have grad students in  
IT'S NOT TOO LATE·  Coupe Book Value $8900 -Selling  your class. if i hear vector extrapo­ 
A newly remodeled 5 bedroom  for $6000/obo  For Sale:  lation one more time i think that i  
house is still available to rent for the  AVAILABLE!  5sp, Air, Tinted Windows, Alloy  -Senior Ticketbook  I need 1 or 2 GAs for the Georgia  am going to be sick. go evil do-er!!  
fall semester. 2 full baths, washers  2BRM, 1 1/2 BA, full bsmt, priv.  Whels, Viper Alarm, Infinity 6-spkr  -50-yard line  Tech and/or the Michigan State  mr. kong is giving shout outs tonight  
and dryer, huge rec room, security  deck. 711 E. Washington. $500 mo.  w/12 Disc Chngr. Taking Best Off  -best offer  game!!!  baby  
system. Call now to take a look  Dep nego, lease term nego. 288·  Rcvd by 9-15. Must Sell. Call Rob  call: 234-0661  Please call Amy  
277-0636.  3410  243-9277.  at 810-355-9140.  Frosty and his Evil Sidekick  


page 12 

The Observer· SPORTS Thursday, August 28, 1997 
•MlB 

Piazza leads Dodgers past Pirates 
By ALAN ROBINSON 
Associated Press Writer 
PITTSBURGH 
Mike Piazza homered twice and drove in six runs and the division-leading Los Angeles Dodgers continued jumping out to early leads, beating Pittsburgh 9-5 Wednesday for their 11th victory in 15 games. 
Piazza had a run-scoring sin­gle in a three-run first inning, then hit the first pitch thrown in the majors by rookie Jason Johnson for a three-run homer -his 30th -in the second. He added his 31st in the ninth, a two-run shot off Matt Ruebel. 
The Dodgers, who outhit the Pirates 18-10 in the series finale, took three of four in the series and finished the season 9-2 against Pittsburgh, outscor­ing the Pirates 66-32. 
Piazza, the first Dodger to hit at least 30 homers in three con­secutive seasons since Duke Snider (1953-57), was 8-for-14 and reached base in 12 of 15 plate appearances during the series. He was 15-for-29 against Pittsburgh for the sea­son. 
Raul Mondesi added a sacri­fice fly and was 7-for-15 with 

Thinking Of Joining the Church? 
Sacred Heart Parish at Notre Dame invites you to its September RCIA classes 
We offer: -a parish setting on campus -Wednesday evening sessions -a diverse mix of people and ages -a convenient option for students who cannot attend Campus Ministry RCIA 
Call Chris Miller at 631-7508 for info. 
• 26 tables 
• 
Snooker, pool, billiards 

• 
Conduct code enforced 

• 
10% student discount with ID 



1202 5. Lafayette • 1 block west of Matn •2 blocks south of Sample 
six RBis in the series. 
Dennis Reyes (2-2), the majors' youngest starting pitch­er at 20, withstood rookie Abraham Nunez's three-run triple -his first major-league hit -to pitch into the seventh inning for his second career victory. 
The Dodgers' 1-2 batters had nine hits -Eric Young had four and Otis Nixon had a career-high five -to jump start an offense that has scored in the first inning of its last four games and seven of its last 10. They have batted .432 (19-of­
44) in the first inning of those 10 games. 
The Dodgers scored four runs in the first inning of a 6-4 victo­ry Tuesday, then added three more Wednesday as Pirates starter Steve Cooke (9-13) was lifted after getting only three outs. It was the second time in his last four starts he has failed to last past the second inning. 
Young doubled to start the first and Nixon and Piazza fol­lowed with singles. Karras and Mondesi were retired on fly balls, but Todd Zeile walked ahead of Garey Ingram's RBI single. 
Ingram, activated before the 
game to replace the injured 
Roger Cedeno, went 3-for-4. 
The Pirates got three runs back in the second when Nunez, one of the their top prospects, hit a bases-loaded triple to right for his first major-league hit. He also sin­gled and scored in the seventh on Mark Smith's infield single, which chased Reyes. 
Reyes allowed four runs on eight hits in 6 2-3 innings. 
Darren Hall got the next four outs before Todd Worrell, who couldn't hold a 3-1 lead in the second game of Monday's dou­bleheader, finished up in a non­save situation. 
Turner Ward hit his third homer off Worrell in the ninth. Notes: The Pirates have switched the time of their final regular-season home game on Sept. 22 against St. Louis from 
7:05 p.m. to 6:05 p.m. The Steelers play at Jacksonville the same night. 

on Sundays from Wednesdays front .,;;fee is $35. Register in arh•;mt~ 
···.~at RecSports. Sign-ups · on Sept. 8. There will be an infor­mational meeting on Sept. 7 at 
1:15 p.m. Space is limited. 


IDdustrisi •Progr~~ssivtl • R11tro •AIItlrDsliYtlDsDotl 
lr•• sdm./11./oD w./1.11 vs.l.ld oo.l./•1• ID Jt prop•r .ld•st./1./ost.los 

Classes are forming now ... enroll today! 
-
1·800-KAP·TEST 
www.kaplan.com 

'Course names are registered trademarks of their respective owners. 
~--~----~ 

Thursday, August 28, 1997 The Observer • SPORTS page 13 
•NBA 
Jordan's contract kept secret 
-

Four-time MVP returns for one more year 
ByRICKGANO 
Associated Press Writer 
CHICAGO 

Michael Jordan, who led the Chicago Bulls to five NBA championships over the last seven years, agreed 
Wednesday to return for one more season. 
''I am delighted and excited to be back agam. I look 

forward to Jordan helping bringing another NBA cham­pionship to Chicago," Jordan said in a statement released by the Bulls. 
Jordan, a nine-time scoring champion, four-time regular­season MVP and the MVP of the NBA Finals all five times the Bulls have won, made a record $30.14 million last season. 
Terms of the contract were not revealed. Reports said Jordan was seeking a con­tract worth at least $36 mil­lion. 
He met on Tuesday in Las Vegas with Bulls chairman Jerry Reinsdorf. 
Earlier this summer, the Bulls met one of Jordan's demands for returning by re­signing coach Phil Jackson to a one-year deal worth $6 mil­lion. 
Another consideration for Jordan, 34, was the status of sidekick and good friend Scottie Pippen, whom the Bulls were ready to trade in June. 
Reports have said Jordan was seeking a promise that the team would not trade Pippen. 
Pippen will make $2.7 mil­lion next season in the final year of an eight-year con­tract. It is his future free agency, as well as the fact that he turns 32 in 

WATER POLO TEAM 
Informational meeting for men and women 
Thursday, August 28 

the Montgomery Theatre, Lafortune Student Center 
8:00 P.M. -9:00 P.M. 

Questions? Call Will @ 271-1957 or Pat @ 634-4223 
September, that had the Bulls considering a trade. 
Jordan made a strong plea after a six-game victory over Utah in the finals to keep the Bulls together for another shot at a championship. He said they had earned that right and encouraged owner Reinsdorf not to break up the team, whatever the cost. 
Jordan was at his best in that series, leading the Bulls to their fifth title of the 1990s. 
He hit the winning baskets in Games 1 and 5, and set up Steve Kerr's winning jumper in Game 6. He averaged 32.3 points in the series, just above his 31.1 for the play­offs. 
Never did he prove his value more than in the pivotal Game 5. Stricken with a stom­ach virus, a weakened, nau­seous and fatigued Jordan scored 38 points and made the decisive 3-pointer with 25 seconds to go. 
For his career, he has scored 5,307 points in 158 postseason games, a 33.6 average. 
Since 1991, the only two years the Bulls didn't win the title were 1994, when Jordan was playing baseball, and 1995, when Jordan came out of retirement and played in the final games of the season. 
Football 
continued from page 16 
trenches. 

"Ron threw the ball with him over the summertime, and he caught the ball real well, and 
*Daily delivery to camp!As 
*St!AdeV\t Disco!AV\t 
*Located oV\ corV\er of 
edisoV\ aV\d JroV\Wood *All major credit cards accepted 3 *World wide delivery 
1Clcfiom' 288-7551 
. runners to sec-Daulton hit a to left, scor­pinch-runner to put the 
4-3, 
put the Marlins 23 games over .500 ·first time in franchise 
._,_........~·~ Nen {9-2) pitched two ''"'nn"'"'''" innings for the win, Scott Servais on a t with runners at 
lse•ctin:d and third. 
he runs well enough to be a tight end," Colletta said. "He's not going to scare you 40 yards downfield, but he can do all the other things, and he's a big blocker so we felt it would be a good move to make, and he's done pretty well." 
Last season while at Purdue, Colletto was faced with the same predicament as he ran out of tight ends and was forced to move one of his line­men to the outside. 
"We used him as a blocker, and he didn't go out for a pass," Colletta said. "But Tim can catch the ball and he runs decently for a big guy. So you'll see him in goal-line and short yardage situations but he'll play in normal down too." 
Adjustment is nothing new to Ridder, who has been moved all over the offensive line. He was a tackle his freshmen cam­paign and served as a backup guard last season. 
"I think he's having a great time," Colletta said. "It was something new and unique to him at first, but he's gotten into the swing of things, and he likes doing what he's doing." 
Notre Dame's next tight end could be on the roster; it remains to be seen if that talent can be proven on game day. 
SENIORS AZZMANS\ 
NITE CLUB 
525 N. HILL STREET 233-8505
FREE WINGS 
The multi-level nite club offering the best in off-campus fun and
@ BW-3 

entertainment where ifyou don't like what's on one floor you can 
go party on the next floor. Two dance floors, DJ's on both levels. 
PRESENTS A:
TONIGHT 

BACK TO SCHOOL PARTY
7PM 

Thursday August 28th 
FREE WINGS AND OTHER Multi-Level Dance Floors DJ's playing the best hip hop, rave, disco, house music, and old
SPECIALS 

school to dance and party to. Cash prizes to the three best dressed ladies with tattoosREGISTER FOR THE OFF CAMPUS free admission with college ID and Driver's License Sorry, both required for free admission
Dl RECTORY AND BUY CHANCES 
MUST BE 21 OR OVER 
DOORS OPEN AT 9PM

FORTH EMl TIX RAFFLE 
page 14 The Observer • SPORTS Thursday, August 28, 1997 
-
• VOLLEYBALL 

and women's soccer. Honorable mention in this
Strip 

Decimated by graduation, category goes to men's women's basketball lost lacrosse.
Lee leads team to 
continued from page 16 

seniors Beth Morgan and The team with the most to 
.. 
victory over Canada 
Special to The Observer 
Notre Dame senior and United States captain Jaimie Lee had a team-leading 18 kills as the U.S. volleyball team held on for a 15-7, 15-10, 3-15, 2-15, 15-10 victory over Canada in Wednesday's semifinal round of the World University Games. 
The victory propels the U.S. into a gold-medal match against Russia, which defeated Japan 16-14 in the fifth game of Wednesday's other semifinal. Russia handed the U.S. its only loss of the week-long tourna­ment in a closely contested 15­11, 15-12, 15-12 match during pool play. 
Lee totaled her 18 kills on a .260 hitting percentage while adding eight digs and an ace. Another of the team's outside hitters, UCLA senior Kara Milling, added 13 kills on .400 hitting. University of Texas junior hitter Demetria Sance suffered an off hitting night but provided a key serving stretch in the decisive fifth game, when she served five straight points to push the U.S. score from seven to 12 (full statistics were not available as of Wednesday night). 
The U.S. jumped out to a 2-0 lead in Wednesday's semifinal before a breakdown in the U.S. serving and passing, coupled with a tough serving stretch from Canada, quickly forced the match to a fifth game. Canada's six-player starting lineup included four starters from the team that lost 3-1 to the U.S. in 
www.thetoppick.com 
VISIT OUR COOL 

WEB--SITE 
to win$$$$$ & prizes and to have fun In our sports 
TRIVIA CONTEST 
Free entry! 
www.thetoppick.com 


R--~ 
the recent Canada Cup, with the two added middle blockers pro­viding a boost to Canada's start­ing lineup in Wednesday's match. 
Lee, who spent the past sum­mer training with the national program at the Olympic Training Center in Colorado, Springs, Colo., will miss Notre Dame's season opener on Friday against Louisville (7: 30 p.m.) in first round action of the Shamrock Invitational. The tournament continues at the Notre Dame Joyce Center with four matches on Saturday, with the Irish set to face Oral Roberts at 1:00 p.m. and Wisconsin at 7:30p.m. Lee is set to return with the U.S. con­tingent on Saturday, with a 4:30 
p.m. arrival in Chicago that conceivably could allow her to attend the Wisconsin match. 
"I actually was happy, in a way, that the match went five games, because I wasn't sure how our team would respond to that type of challenge," said Lee. 
Recycle The Observer 
this year will be the hockey team. Relatively unaffected by graduation, the Irish returned a strong crop of sophomores and juniors as well as senior standout goaltender Matt Eisler. 
Coach Dave Poulin's team, which was ranked in the national polls for the first few weeks of last season, should more than double its nine wins from last year behind this more experienced team. An NCAA tournament berth is within sight. 
The teams hurt by gradua­tion are women's basketball 

Room< av<Jil..ble fO'T' footb..llweekend< W..lk;ng Dist<Jnce to Not-re D<Jme 

b~-3 
Grill l1 Pub® 
123 W. Washington St. Downtown South Bend 
232-2293 •Great Wings •Salads •Sandwiches 
20 T.V... s To Catch Your Favorite Game! 
r-------------~------------,
1  bw-3 coupon  1  bw-3 coupon  1  
II I1 I  25 WINGS  II 1 1 I  12 WINGS RegularChips soft drink  1 I 1 1 I  
:  ~®Q~~  :  ~~Q~®  :  
I  Expires Oct. 15, 1997  I  Expires Oct. 15, 1997  I  

L----------~--~------------~ 
-t..,~ 

c4"' Oo&o,.,.,~l0~41 
Sunday, September 7 ~ Notre Dame Golf Course Tee Times Begining at 1 0:00 
18 HOLES PLAY YOUR OWN BALL MaJ'S & WOMEN'S DIVISIONS FEE IS $8.00 REGISTER & PAY FEE AT GOLF PRO SHOP SIGN-UPS BEGIN THURSDAY, AUGUST 28 DEADLINE IS WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 3 SPACE IS LIMITED FOR MORE INFO. CALL RECSPORTS AT 1-6100 

L-----------------------------------------~ 
Katryna Gaither while women's soccer lost Jen Renola and Cindy Daws. Fortunately, both teams still have a plethora of talent and will do everything in their power to make everyone for­get who they lost and remem­ber who they still have. 
The most unrecognized team will continue to be men's baseball. Under the leadership of head coach Paul Mainieri, the Irish have dominated the Midwestern Collegiate Conference yet have received virtually no recognition in terms of student attendance at their games. 
gain is men's basketball. The return of senior Pat Garrity, as well as a strong freshman class, will make for a team that is stronger and deeper than the one that fell to Michigan by one point in the Elite Eight game of the NIT. 
The team with the most to lose is men's basketball. Garrity's graduation at the end of this year means that the Irish must step it up this year or forget about a Big East title for a long time. 
Am I just as much a part of the seemingly endless opti­mism that pervades this? Probably. 
OPEN AUDITION 
For the 
Pasquerilla East Musical Company Production of ? 
This Saturday, August 30 6:00pm 
PE Chapel Lounge 
No preparation necessary 
Questions: call Kelly x 441 6 
~ruct A".;f~~ 
_/~ w~NJ") '.~J~t'JJ 
.AlAli~G 
fE0J"IC0LOJ. DRfAf'1COA1i 

--------------------------------------,
rON & OFF CAMPUS DELIVERY NOW AVAILABLE~ : 
~btNtttrUorl\:~imts : 
D Mon-Fri (13 weeks for $26.00) D Mon-Sun (13 weeks for $83.20) 
D Mon-Sat (13 weeks for $31.20) D Sunday only (13 weeks for $52.00) 
Delivery begins within 5 days of receipt of payment. 13 week subscription automatically renews at end of cycle. You must call in your own vacation stops. Make checks payable to: The New York limes. 
~~------------------------------------------~ 
: Name  Phone  -----­ 
1Address  (some addresses may not be deliverable)  
I City  State  Zip _____  

1~------------------------------------------~ 
1Clip & mail to: NYT College Dept., P.O. Box 520, Palos Park, IL 60464-0520 :Call in credit card orders, vacation stops & cancellations at 1-800-NYTIMES I Please mention source code with all phone orders Source code:WR 
L--------------------------------------~ 
Thursday, August 28, 1997 The Observer • TODAY page 15 
MEN ABOUT CAMPUS DAN SULLIVAN YOUR HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 
·-­


MOTHER GOOSE & GRIMM 
DILBERT 
I CA.LCULA.IED THE TOTAL TIME THAT HUMANS HAVE WAITED FOR WEB Pfo.GE.S TO LOAD ... 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 32 Dieter's no-no 35--operas
1 Historic (Gilbert and introduction? 
Sullivan works) 4Ciamorous 

36--Jima 

9Gothic 37 Quip, part 3 architectural 40 First mate? 
feature 41 Rib-ticklers14 Grp. overseeing 44 Set straight early reactors 47 Quip, part 4 15Siowly so Actress16 Auriculate 
Donohoe 17 Start of an Erma 
51 Sticking point? 

Bombeck quip S5Ax 
19"--Honey 
57 Crack or jack Are You?" (Fats followerWaller hit) 58 Twilled fabric 

20 Dey TV series 59 Stomach -­
21 Kind of wheels 
61 End of the quip 23 He's a real doll 
65 The merry 24 Rapper? widow in "The 26 Terrorize Merry Widow" 
28 Quip, part 2 66"Aha!" 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
.:..:-~~>=-<~ ~=-~-~~~ 


IT CANCEL5 OUT ALL THE. PRODUCTIVITY GA!N5 OF THE INFOR­M,..TlON A.GE.. 
67 London Zoo feature? 
68'Mid 
&9Trades 
70 GO staff, e.g. 
DOWN 
1 Barn items 2Summation 3 Dangerous 
bacteria 
4 Female member of the bar? 
5 Churchill's "so few": Abbr. 6 Famous Bruin 7Gone by 8 The Desert Fox 
9 Baubles 10 Word to a doctor 
11 Covered costs 12 --majeste 13 Paradise lost 18 Corday's victim, 1793 

34 Longtime NBC 
22 "--luck?" 

Symphony
25 Astronauts' ade 
conductor 

!jm@j~lll 2& Arrestee's rights, familiarly 27 Half a dance  38 Flight formation 39 Long spar 42 The piper's son 43 Rebukes  
29 Debussy  sharply  
subject  45 Four o'clock  
30 Gad about  services  
31 Got a load of  46Lawntool  
.._:._.::_.::-i-=...j.-:.-f-'.-'"1 32 Suva is its  48--Cat  
capital  49 Luggage  
-=4~~;....+-:,:-1 33 Takes one's  necessities  
breath away  52 Nibble  

CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Stt•phen llaldwin, Ceorge Car· lin, Emilio Estevez, Susan Hampshirl' 
DEAR EUCENIA: I'm just movin); out of tht: citv to a smrdl town and h<lVl.' some anXiety abt,ut how to ket'p somt· of my city life and .1lso not be­I.'OI11l' too js(,latL~ and al~ll about find­ing a part-time job in a somewhat economically depresst>d area. I'm alsn concerned ah\lut my son, who is now living it1 the Caribbean and was born jan. R, 1973, at 2:01 a.m. lle has been depre5~ed for many years and has had a on1g addiction. I need to know if he'll ever come out of this and if we will be able to re-establish a connec­tion. I was born on Oct. 16, 1946, at l:OOa.m. 
Libra 

DEAR LIBRA: There is no doubt about it: You will miss the city life, friends and so on. There will be a period of adjustment for about a year. After that, you will either be moving back or you will have made some very good friends in your new setting. Your chart indicates that you may be lucky enough to land a part­time job. However, you should con­sider picking up courses that will enable you to move towards starting your own home-based business. As for your son, his problems will con­tinue. The drug addiction showed up loud and clear. In the same area of his chart, he does have a favorable aspect to the planet Pluto and that has helped him land on his feet. He will face a difficult time at the beginning of next year, so stay in touch with him if you can. You could connect with him again next year. 
SOME.T!ME5 I TI-\!NK 11-\E WEB ARIES (March 21-April 19): Your emotional well-being will improve as
I:) A BIG PLOT TO KEEP 
the day progresses. Spend liml' with family and plan actiYitiL'S that L'\'l'n ­onl' will en~lY. · 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): M1 nor acddents will occur while travd· ing if you don't con~..·entratL• on wh.11 you're doing. 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20l: Money matters may be dect'ptive. Gu over your own book~ before making large purchases. 
CANCER (june 21-july 22): Travel or attending lectures will promote new mmantic encounters. You will bL· in a social frame of mind. 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Opportu· nities to win points wJth superior-. will surface. Take care of small but important details. 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Invest­ment opportunities will develop through the individuals you meet at organizational functions. 
LIBRA (Sepl 23-0ct. 22): You can make residential moves or changes in your living arrangements. Get to­gether with friends or relatives. 
SCORPIO (Oct, 23-Nov. 21): lndi· viduals you mt.--et will influence your way of thinking. Business or pleasure trips will bring you cultural know!· edge. 
SAGITTARIUS (~ov. 22-Dec. 21l: Residential moves will be profitable' You can make changes or rearrangt· your living space. 
CAPRICORN !Dec. 22-jan. 19l: You will find that romantic opportu· nities will be plentiiul if you get out and mingle with friends. 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Ro­mantic en1.:ounters are likely to e\'oh·L' through acquaintances you met at work. You can maJ..e professional changes. 
PISCES (Feb. 19-.\larch 20): Sport, activity will promote meeting ne\\' w­mantic partners. Complete hobbie, and get involved in Lourses. 
PEOPLE LIK.E. ME Bo_m Today: Let your creative juices flow. You have so man~ good ideas and lots ot venues to displ<~y them in. Don't be afraid to show your work this vear
AWA'( !=ROM 
You will be well received by those who really count. Your t'itllrts could ·lt•,,c you in a ne\·1.' direction.
NORMAL SOCIETY. 
~OBSERVER 
53 Encouraged, 56 Have--(flip with"on" out) 60 Fort-, N.J.
54 Saxophonist's supply 62 Fiddle stick 
63LAXinfo

55 Ones going through a 64Kind of stage? treatment 
Answers to any three clues in this puzzle 
Join The
are available by touch-tone phone: 
1-900-420-5656 (75¢ per minute) . Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Observer Staff 

FIELDHOUSE MALL
'UFomels-In.,... of roln 
Thursday, August 28 
FREE PRESCRIPTION 
Cotton Candy, Snow Cones and Tie-dye Tees 
WITH A HEALTHY DOSE OF THE 
Skalcoholiks 
MW:JMEDICAL CENTERl 
Helping You Toke Core OfYou 
more medical from the unlicensed prolesOonals a 
---
• 
.. 

-SPORTS 
page 16 
• FOOTBALL 
Colletto looks to fill tight end position 
By JOE CAVATO roster depleted of anyone with Assistant Sports Editor college experience at the tight end position. 
In recent years the Notre O'Leary has been thrust into Dame football program has the starting role as a high produced its fair share of great school All-American who has tight ends. The Irish signal an impressive high school callers have been able to look resume but has yet to play a to the likes of Derek Brown, Irv down in a collegiate game. Smith and Pete Chryplewicz as O'Leary is known more for his they break off the line looking receiving skills than blocking for a first-down reception. but he has reaped the benefits 
With the graduations of Ron of sitting out a year and watch­Powlus' favorite receiver and ing the veterans, Chryplewicz honorable mention AU­and Carretta, in action. American, Chryplewicz, and "I feel a lot more comfortable backup tight end and special now," O'Leary said. "My fresh­team guru Kevin Carretta, man year it seemed like I had offensive coordinator Jim to learn a new technique for Colletta has a hole at tight end. blocking. That year watching 
"We've had to spend a lot of .Pete and Kevin really helped time there," Colletta said. that aspect of my game." "There is not a lot of experience O'Leary has progressed, but there so we've spent more time you can't teach game experi­working with that position." ence. 
'"They're throwing a lot more "Dan has done well in prac­Also in the mix are walk-on an immediate impact. 
at us to see how we handle it at tice but it is a new experience 
practice," sophomore starting the first time you play in a col­Mike Denvir and incoming The most intriguing name on tight end Dan O'Leary said. lege game, especially the envi­freshman Jabari Holloway, who the depth chart at the tight end are both unproven although slot is undoubtedly that of
To complicate matters, John ronment around Notre Dame," 
Cerasani was suspended from Colletta said. ''I'm sure he'll do Holloway, named to several All­junior Tim Ridder. The 6-foot-American teams, could make 7, 298-pound offensive lineman
the University leaving the Irish a good job." 
has found himself further away from center Rick Kaczenski than he is used to as he is now listed as O'Leary's top back-up. 
Ridder's performance last spring made him a candidate for the tight end position, but that performance did not come during the Blue-Gold game at Moose Krause Stadium. 
Ridder flashed some of his roundball skills as the center for last spring's Bookstore Basketball top-seeded and final four team, Corby's. 
"When we had the situation where John Cerasani was not going to be here we felt we needed another guy," Colletto explained. "Tim had done so well in Bookstore, and he is such a good athlete." 
Over the summer Ridder worked out with Powlus, and he now finds himself punishing defensive backs instead of defensive linemen all day in the 
" 
With the dismissal of John Cerasani, the Irish find themselves without a definite tight end. 
see FOOTBALL I page 13 

• SA!NT MARY's 



Belles hope to gain recognition by joining MIAA 
By ANGELA OLSEN in intercollegiate sports, and tion has always been a trouble early stage to measure if this soccer, volleyball, and basket­Saint Mary's Sports Editor since 1990, the Belles have area when it came to recruiting year's recruiting was influ­ball will be included in MIAA 
-
been Division III members of athletes. Athletic director Jan enced by the new conference conference play. 
Membership in a major, the National Collegiate Athletic Travis said, "The question most membership, the true test will Perhaps the best advantage of regional athletic conference has Association (NCAA). The Belles asked of us [the athletic depart­be next year. All of Saint Mary's MIAA affiliation will be the ben­its privileges, and for the ath­were not part of an organized ment) was, 'What conference sports teams will participate in efits provided to the student­letes at Saint Mary's member­conference. does Saint Mary's belong to?"' conference play this year athletes themselves. Travis ship cards have just arrived. Now Saint Mary's will join After being told that the except the soccer, volleyball pointed to "not only the athletic 
Last December, the Saint Adrian, Albion, Alma, Calvin, Belles had no conference affili­and basketball teams. recognition but the academic Mary's athletic department Hope, Kalamazoo, Olivet, and ation, many recruits were left Those schedules were already recognition" that will be given received an invitation to join Ohio's Defiance College as feeling unsatisfied with the completed before Saint Mary's to Saint Mary's athletes by the 
-
the Michigan Intercollegiate members of the MIAA. Saint Saint Mary's athletic program. was extended the official MIAA MIAA. A further benefit for the Athletic Association (MIAA). Mary's is the first all-women's By joining the MIAA, Travis invitation, and it was impossi­student athletes will be the This season marks the Belles' college to join the MIAA, the believes there will be more ble for nine schools to develop a opportunity for post-season debut into that conference. nation's oldest collegiate athlet­recognition of Saint Mary's new schedule. However, begin­play. "We will now have closure 
Since the 1970s, the athletes ic conference. College athletics. ning in the 1998-99 and subse­to our seasons," commented at Saint Mary's have competed A lack of conference affilia-While it is difficult at such an quent seasons, Saint Mary's Travis. 
-
vs. St. John's, August 29, 7:30p.m. 
vs. Louisville, August 29, 7:30p.m. 
conies the seemingly end­
less optimjsm on the part of .students; .John Copollella 
faculty, 5 ... w· 
and alum· pom rner riiregarding Notre. Dame athletics. It is true that Notre Dame is renowned for its athletic accomplishments, both on and off the .field, and that it is perennially one ofthe most successful programs in college sports. It is also true that the Irish had consider­able success last year in a number of sports, contend­ing for and/or winning national championships in women's soccer, women's basketball, men's lacrosse, and fenCing, among other sports. However, Notre Dame and the overwhelming optimism that surrounds its athletic program will not be satis­fied unless every major . sport brings home a nation­al championship. So the question arises: What's the deal with Notre Dame sports this year? WelL here's my outlook some of the teams: The team to watch this year has to be football. · Everyone knows about the myriad of changes, ranging from Bob Davie taking over for Lou Holtz to the addi­tional 21,000 seats added to the stadium. What a lot of people do not knowis that nearly every preseason pub­lication has Notre Dame ranked higher than every single opponent it plays this year. If the Irish can defeat Michigan and LSU on the road, nothing should stand between them and the national championship game. The most improved team 
see STRIP I page 14 
vs. Indiana, 


• Jordan signs contract 
September 2, 7:30p.m. 
see page 13 

• Jaimie Lee leads U.S. squad 
vs. Georgia Tech, 
see page 14
September 6, 1:30 p.m. 

• 





