
Tuesday, October 14, 1997 • Vol. XXXI No. 37 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 

Sub-committees approach four central issues 
By MICHELLE KRUPA tions about the accuracy of drinking. We Associate News Editor The Observr.r and Scholastic know that Magazine. prohibition 
The Campus Life Council's f<'inally, the academics sub-is not going sub-committees focused their committee will target the use to come to efforts at yesterday's meeting of Stepan Center as a venue this campus after brainstorming for a half for departmental exams.. any time hour about issues affecting "In a university that stresses soon," Coyle Parh of the four groups: acad-aeademics as much as we do, said. emics. alcohol. community life maybe we should consider Morrissey and diversity. some other options," suggest-Hall senator 
Speaking for the academic ed Breen-Philips Hall senator Matt Szabo committee,-------------Andrea then reiter­Cavanaugh llall sen­Kavoosi. · ated the dis­ator Lauren Ilrrring P a t cussion of
' overall, we want to
cited advising as one Coy I e. the commu­of' the main subjects foster education Dillon nity life sub­of roncrrn. and responsible drink­Hall sen­committee. 
Overlapping the ator, dis­He delin­
ing. VVe know that pro­

issue with efforts cussed eated the from Student Senate hibition is not going to issues of group s and Faculty SPnate, the com­issues into
come to this campus 

tlw CLC gr<;up hopes mittee five topics: to find an under­anytime soon.' concen­laundry 
of standardization of all 27 said.

graduate program trating on facilities in men's dorms, dorm 
dorms across the board," .liB also hoped to deal withadequate to deal alcohol Judicial Board reform, the Dovidio said. such issues as inter-racial

with thP nPPds of' Pat Coyle. Dillon senator use in the "horrible disrepair" of the 
Lastly, the diversity commit­retreats, Notre Dame anduppPr-class studPnts. N o r Lyons' basketball courts. cam­

-------------t e 
tee listed a "plateful" of issues Saint Mary's relations, the

"It sPems that pf~o­D a m e pus transportation and 
they plan to tackle this year. "Spirit of Inclusion" lettf1r,ple really gPt eased into the community. lie said that the accountability of the student 

Zahm 1-!all senator Brandon gender relations and diversity

whole college srPtw with First group will "act in retrospect" media. 
Williams explained the goals. of religions and economic

YPar of Studirs. but after that. to a ff)port that will be pre­Explaining the J-Board 
"We would like to have an backgrounds on campus.

its rPally up and down." sented by vice president of issue. judicial council presi­orientation presentation for In other news, student body
llerring said. Stud<>nt Affairs Patricia dent Jen Dovidio noted the 
students coming in on diversi­president Matt Griffin distrib­

Slw also nxpressrd intf~rest O'llara detailing the effects of need for a common under­
ty on our campus and a pro­uted copies of the student gov-

in investigating student opin­binge drinking on academics. standing of the duties of the motion of the tolerant atmos­
ion of campus nwdia by com­"Overall, we want to foster groups. 
phere on campus," Williams

piling a survey including ques-education and responsible "We need to get some kind see CLC I page 4 
ND dining 

halls ban 

Northern Indiana's "Indian 
summer" ended this week­
Monday was ushered in 

end. 'Assassins'
with rainstorms and, finally, some seasonably cool temperatures. Students and faculty alike By DAVID FREDDOSO pulled umbrellas out of Assistant News Editor closets and boxes to fight the blustery winds and pre­
Dining hall employees

cipitation. 
have asked that those

Meterologists have pre­
involved in the "Assassins"

dicted temperatures in the 
game aeross campus not use

50s and 60s with some 
additional rainfall for the the dining hall as a hunting 
rest of the week. See page ground. 2 for a more detailed fore­.Jill Higgs, the general cast. manager of North Dining 
1-!all, said that disciplinary action will be taken against anyone seen firing dart gun in the dining halls. 
"It is not appropriate to shoot them in the dining hall," she said. "There arc a


Sommer stresses respect between cultures 
lot of people in the dining halls, and some people arc shooting them across and at

By PATRICK MCGOVERN ethnic groups who live in the U.S. makes 
other tables. We don't wantNews \Vriter accurate knowledge of each one impossi­anyone to be shot in the eye,ble. Therefore. respect becomes the key 

or have darts land in some­

Doris Somnwr began her lecture last element. 
one's eoffee and splash hot · night with a warning. "Instead of knowledge, you can learn coffee on anyone."

"The topic tonight is called 'agostineia,' respect," Sommers said. 
Riggs said that anyonewhich means warning. Be carPf'ul of Sommers used both film clips and who is seen shooting their

sonw books," Sommer instructed. musical pieces to illustrate her ideas. 
gun in the dining hall will beSlw was rnferring to books that pre­In one film dip, a scene portrayed an asked to stop, and that any­

SPilt a vinw of a culturn. particularly American incorrectly translating 
one who persists will be

Latin Amnrican cultures. in which tlw Spanish, spoken by a Mexican who was 
asked to leave the dining

author is hostile towards rPaclers that do being questioned by a sheriff'. The incor­hall. Those who still refusenot understand thn culture. rect translations lead to a misunder­to 'Cooperate will have theirSommer. a prol'essor of' Latin American standing and a m~edless murder. 
student identification confis­literature at llarvard University, spoke Thn selection of music Sommnrs played 

cated, and the dining hall

on issues concerning n~spnet between was a piece by Gloria Estefan. Sommers 
staff will call security as adiff<>n~nt cultures rather than undnr­related that many Anglo-Americans last recourse.

standing. Sommer also discussed the were put off by the song because of its 
Higgs reported that no IDsr<~prescntation of race and ethnicity in pro-Latin theme that seemed to exclude or guns have been confiscat­literature, music and film. other cultures. 

ed yet. Still, she said that if

Sommer addressed the need for "Opposition is a feature of understand­rnspect for thn numerous cultures pre­ing," said Sommers. "Paradoxically, in 
it becomes a problem, the 
The Observer/Jo Mikals-Adachi 
dining hall staff will not hes­

sent in thn United States. According to Harvard professor Doris Summers spoke on prioritiz­
itate to apply the rules.

Sommnr. the sheer number of various see CULTURES f page 4 mg respect over understanding in cultural relations. 


~--------------------------------------------------------------------------~--­
page L. The Observer· INSIDE Tuesday, October 14, 1997 
• !NSmf COLUMN 


The nature of stress 
Can you believe--------­it? We've already P. Colleen Nugent been in school a Saint Mary's Assistant Editor 
half of a semester, 
and the weather that paid a visit to South 
Bend last weekend, other than the changing 
leaves. made it feel like we were back in the 
heat of August! 
Well, to my disbelieving eyes, I woke up 
yesterday morning at 6:30 to find myself all 
snuggled in my warm bed, when outside my 
room was a dreary but dry looking day. 
After going running and getting ready for 
my 8:00 a.m. class, down came the rain. I 
mean down it poured... it never stopped, and 
the temperature just got colder as the day 
went on. What's up with this trick, Mother 
Nature? 
Maybe Mother Nature knew that this was 
the ultimate week of stress for the students 
here at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's. Then 
again, maybe not, but who am I to com­
plain? 
With the weather getting colder, maybe we 
will all be motivated to study a few extra 
hours without complaint. I think that the 
stress hit the majority of the students today 
in classes as teachers spoke about what we 
should expect to find on our exams, and just 
when our papers should be "turned in." 
My everlasting question is this: Why, even 
though we are given syllabi in the beginning 
of the year, do we decide to procrastinate 
and leave everything for ourselves to do with 
only five days in that week. There arc only 
24 hours in a day, and our bodies just don't 
come equipped with the extra energy need­
ed for these famous all-nighters that we pull 
during this stressful time of the year. 
As a result, many of us get all worked up 
and stressed beyond the point in which we 
can concentrate like sane women and men. 
Stress is something I have become quite 
familiar with since I came to Saint Mary's 
my freshman year when the term PROCRAS­
TINATION was entered into my vocabulary. 
As an elementary education major, I find 
myself stressed constantly, not just during 
the weeks of midterms, so I have developed 
a theory of how to rid oneself of the stress 
that comes and overtakes us. 
Take time to treat yourself to a study 
break. 
Go for a walk. Run a couple of milns. Write 
a poem or letter to a friend or family mem­
ber. Enter back into the years of your child­
hood by coloring (staying within the lines). 
Head a magazine. Paint your nails. E-mail! 
Do crossword puzzles. Take pictures of 
nature. One can even try to relieve their 
stress by going to the Grotto and lighting a 
candle for those who are less fortunate and 
do not get the opportunity to experience 
stress in the academic aspect. 
Most of all, remember to keep in mind that 
in less than four days from now, you will be 
on our way to l 0 days of sleeping in and 
pure. enjoyment of what ever it is that you 
may choose to do over your October break! 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
• TODA'{S STAFf  
News  Graphics  
Allison Koenig  Pete Cilella  
Sarah Hansen  Production  
Sports  Allison Koenig  
Kevin Robinson  Susie Sohn  
Viewpoint  Lab Tech  
Dan McDonough  Sam Assaf  
Accent  
Mary Magaret Nussbaum  


The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
• WORlD AT A GLANCE 
minor scars from skin grafts. 
• SOUTH BEND WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forecast An.:uWcathcrao forecast for daytime condilions and high temperatures 
H L 
Tuesday ~51 32 Wednesday~ 55 37 
Thursday  ~56  34  
Friday  ~  60 40  
Sat~rday ~.. ) "'S ·­~··· .. '  ~  65 47  

q,~,Q9Q.Q {) ~ u 
Showers T-storms Rain Flurries Snow Ice Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy 
V1a Associated Press Graoh~esNet 
John Denver dies in plane crash off California coast 
PACIFIC GROVE, Calif. 
With such 1970s hits as "Hoeky Mountain High," "Sunshine on My Shoulders" and "Take Me Home; Country Hoads," John Denver was a wholesome, wire-rimmed hippie who turned out sunny music for cynical times. 
In the end, he died in a setting straight out of his musie, soaring over the mountains, sea and sky before his brand-new experimental plane crashed Sunday in picturPsque Monterey Bay. lie was 53. 
"Who I am is in my songs," D1mver said in a 1986 intervinw. "[ love it when people get that." 
Peter, Paul and Mary made a hit of Denver's "Leaving on a .Jet Plane" in 1969, and on Monday, member Mary Travers mourned him as man who AP 


Clinton angry over delayed tapes Fossils shed light on unknown era 
WASIIIN<;TONBIV\SlLIA, Brazil Filling in part of an 80 million-year historical gap, fos­Pmsident Clinton, reacting Monday to rm__.,........l!!r"--, 

sils found in Utah suggest long-neckPd dinosaurs maya comment by Attorney General .Janet 

havn 1mten thmnsdves into oblivion by hdping to destroy

Reno, did not rule out submitting to 
North American fornsts. That allowed the rise of shorter,questioning by the .Justice lkpartment horned dinosaurs that fnd on shrubs. Hesnarchnrs alsoin its fund-raising investigation. Asked 

uncovered fossils suggesting that a toothy dinosaur

by reporters whether he was willing to migrated from Asia and evolvrnl in thn Americas intoundergo such questioning, he said, "I 
Tyrannosaurus rex, the most fearsome mnat eatnr in his­

will do anything that is necessary to get tory, said lliehard L. Cifelli, lead author of a study in the
her and the Justice Department the 
"""".......,.____...,._"""'""" 
Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences. Fossils

information they need." Heno had said a day earlier, 
unearthed in Emery County, Utah, an~ the first for tnrres­"We're going to pursue every lead and interview anyon1~ trial animals and plants from a historical gap that beganwho has information concerning the transactions involved 145 million years ago and eontimwd until just a fnw mil­in this whole investigation." Asked if that could ineludP lions years bnforn thn dinosaurs becanw 1~xtinct (>5 mil­

Clinton, she said, "Exactly." Clinton, who spoke to 
lion years ago, Cifelli said. "This gap has b1~nn like a twi­reportnrs aboard Air Foree One on his South American light zone in tho age of dinosaurs," said CifP!Ii. Althoughtrip, described himself as even angrier than Hnno when he it was dear that great changes oecurrnd during that gap,learned of delays in providing videotapes of White I louse little was known hncause there wern fnw fossils. "This iscoffees to investigators. While Heno said last week she 

the first lightml room in a darkened house," lw said.

"was mad," Clinton said: "You think shn was mad. You Louis C . .Jacobs, a noted dinosaur expert at Soutlwrnshould have been there whnn I heard about it." !11~ said · M1~thodist University, said the Utah fossil discoverins areone of his White I louse lawyers, Lanny Breuer, "madn a "hugely" important because tlwy help give a picture ofmistake" when he !'ailed to immediately tell Heno that the the world during an unknown period. "Tiwre wnrn vnrytapes were discovered. But he said the counsel's ofliee has major changes th1m in thn eeosystl~ms of thn Earth," lwworked hard to comply with rnquests from congressional 
said.

and .Justice Department investigators. 
Baby Jessica living normal childhood Dylan Thomas' death diabetes related 
MIDLAND, Texas LONDON 

Ten years ago this week, little .Jnssica McClure was res­Welsh poet Dylan Thomas dind because an Anwriean cued from an abandoned well in a drama that brought out doctor misdiagnosed his diabetes-l'l~latml symptoms as some of the best and the worst in human nature. Today, being the result of a drunknn stupor, a nnw book con­she is an 11-year-old who makes A's and B's at school, tlmds. Thomas, whose drinking habits wnre the stuff of plays the piano and French horn and whizzns through her legend, dind in New York City's St. Vincent's llospital in neighborhood on skates. The sixth-grader is said to have 1953, at 39. According to some accounts, Thomas col­no memory at all of' the 58-hour ordeal. "Morn than any­laps!~d outside Greenwich Village's White llorse Tavern thing, I want her to have a normal childhood," said Cissy after a whiskey binge, dying live days later. "The l>nath of Porter, who was 18 when her daughter plunged down the Dylan Thomas," due out in Britain rwxt wenk, claims 22-foot hole. "We want everyone to know that she's line, Thomas actually was sum~ring !'rom t.hn stupor of a drink­that she's a lmalthy, activf~. loving girl. But we don't want ing bout and tlw lethargy of dialwtns -a condition people recognizing her everywhere she goes." The girl's Thomas allegndly had !'ailnd to disdosn !Wlm to his person­divorced parents, Mrs. Porter and Chip McClure, seem al physician. Thinking Thomas simply drunk, Dr. Thomas eager to let the anniv1wsary pass quietly, granting just one Fnltenstein injnetnd Thomas with rortismw. morphine and interview, to Ladies Horne .Journal. Shunning attention, Bmwzmlrirw, snnding him into a fatal dialwtic coma, tlw too, are many of the rescuers in this oilfield dty who have book claims. Fdtnnstnin failml to run blood or urirw tests been linked ever since to the wide-eyml toddler. Jessica bnforn trnating Thomas, according to authors Dr . .lames told the magazine she likes Beanie Babies and animals, Nashold, a neurosurgeon !'rom Durham, N.C., and WPish and has nine dogs and eats. Slw's bored by talk of tlw inci­biographer (;om·gn Trmn]Ptt. Wlwn confrontnd by two dent, which claimed her right little toe and left some young doctors at St. Vine1mt's, Feltnnst1~in torn up nwdical 
docunwnts showing his error, tho authors claim. 
• NATIONAL WEATHER 
The AccuWeather®forecast for noon, Tuesday, Oct. 14. Lines separate high temperature zones for the day. 


COLD  WARM  STATIONARY  Cl 1997 AccuWearher, Inc  
Pressure H L  63  ESl  [Til  0 '  [23'  8  !) u u  
HIGH  LOW  SHOWERS  RAIN  f.STORMS FLURRIES  SNOW  ICE  SUNNY  PT CLOUDY  CLOUDY  
Atlanta  75  66  Denver  66  37  New Orleans  76  68  
Baltimore  77  56  Indianapolis  57  40  New York  73  57  
Boston  67  50  Las Vegas  84  50  Pittsburgh  66  54  
Chicago  49  36  Memphis  66  45  Oklahoma City 74  41  
Dallas  75  45  Minneapolis  49  26  San Francisco 85  54  

--------~---~-------------------~ 
Tuesday, October 14, 1997 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Perlmutter: Germany must decide fate of refugees 
By MATTHEW QUINN 
News Writer 
According to Ted Perlmutter, visiting professor of European studies, German federalism has kept that country from accept­ing Bosnian asylum-seekers. 
Perlmutter focused on three main themes throughout his lecture: the fact that federalism leads to the politicization of immigration, that refugees tend to be regionally located and that federalism weakens the control of political parties. Specifically, he applied these themes to the crisis that has arisen in Germany during the last several years: the issues of Bosnians seeking political asy­lum and the eventual need to expatriate them. 
Perlmutter was introduced by Robert Fishman, a Notre Dame professor. Fishman pointed out that Perlmutter is "one of the 



IIPC Group,LLC. 
graduates ing firms.

IPC Group offers interesting, stimulating careers in Consulting for top-quality Accounting and Finance undergraduates, and MBAs. Located in Chicago, we consult with attorneys to calculate damages in major commercial litigation. In addition, we perform valuations for a variety of purposes, and assist companies in their management of technology and intellectual properties. 
If you're smart, articulate, well-rounded, and tired of ;:-r//1 / 
rr

cookie-cutter careers; work 

~;:/'

with Career and Placement Check out our website: by 4:30 today www.ipcgroup.com
.7J 

to be considered for our .
v;r r / r /1? 
mid-November interview /1 .; rr schedules. 


Tuesday, October 14 For time and location of meeting, call: l-8041 NDLGS Group Advisors: Fr. Tom Gaughan, C.S.C 
Sr.Mary Louise Gude, C.S.C. 
All Meetings are private and confidential. 
few people" in the area of European studies who has shifted his career focus from one country to another, in this case, from Italy to Germany. 
Before developing his ideas, however, Perlmutter clarified the term "running amok," which he used in the title of his lecture: "The German 

. Response to the Bosnian Refugee Crisis: Federalism Run Amok?" He explained "running amok," as "the transformation from deep depression to mur­derous rage -known in the 
U.S. as 'going postal."' 
Perlmutter acknowledged the great dilemma facing Germany and other U.N. countries regarding refugee expatriation. 
"Getting people back to where they originated in Bosnia will determine the suc­cess of the Dayton Peace Accords, and the progress here has not been encouraging." he said. 
The inevitable withdrawal of 
U.S. troops from the area, according to Perlmutter, has resulted in a feeling that "time is running out." 
Furthermore, explained Perlmutter, there have been "logistical and political difficul­ties" that have slowed down the expatriation process. These "political difficulties" were the main focus of Perlmutter's lec­ture. 
Germany, he explained, is a "highly decentralized nation," chanH~1~rized by internal feud­ing amung the different regions. 



The Observer/Jo Mikals-Adachi 

Visiting Professor Ted Perlmutter spoke yesterday about Germany's expatriation of Bosnian refugees. 
The U.S., he asserted, heavily influenced the federalist nature of the German constitution in the wake of World War II. 
This federalism led to ambiguous immigration legisla­tion, according to Perlmutter, and the issue peaked last May. It was then, he explained, that "cruel, forced deportations occurred. A woman who had recently been raped and beaten in Bosnia was almost immedi­ately deported back, and anoth­er who had just been released from ~?e hospital was forced to leave. 
Clearly, argued Perlmutter, the effects of federalism are to blame for the crisis, and "even right-leaning German politi­cians have acknowledged the perplexity of the crisis." 
What does the future hold for Bosnian asylum-seekers in Germany? "Next year will bode well for them," explained Perlmutter, "because it is an election year. The issue will be highly publicized, and it may even be resolved. There will be no mass deportations." 
Perlmutter concluded his lec­ture by drawing a comparison between the effects of German federalism on the Bosnian refugee crisis and the recent debate surrounding Proposition 187 in California. 
"Just as in Germany," Perlmutter stated, "there was a regional concentration of immi­grants, unnecessary legislation was voted on, and politicians (President Clinton and California governor Pete Wilson) exploited the issue." 
The lecture was sponsored by the Nanovic Center for European Studies. 

~.f;~-SYRACUSE
~~ 

~ ,__ ':·· J STUDY ABROAD 
..,~ 
~ Al.rdrt4 

COMING TO YOUR CAMPUS! 
Dr. Jim Buschman will be at Room 329 DeBartolo on Tuesday, Oct. 14 from 3:00 to 
5:00. Come discuss your options for study abroad! 
• 
Grants, loans & academic scholarships 

• 
Coursework, internships, travel & more 


ZIMBABWE • ENGLAND • ITALY 
HONG KONG • SPAIN • FRANCE 
Syracuse University • 119 Euclid Avenue • Syracuse, NY 13244-4170 1-800-235-3472 • suabroad@syr.edu • http://sumweb.syr.edu/dipa 

page 4 
CLC 
continued from page 1 
ernment board of trustees report, which targets the spe­cial need for transportation on campus and inc.Iudes two years worth of student group surveys regarding the issue. 
"We basically said that the University should create a transportation services divi­sion consisting of 15 passen-

Cultures 

continued from page 1 
order to empathize, we violate our commonness." 
According to Sommers, an attempt to empathize with, or understand, cultures other than one's own can lead to misun­derstandings. A focus on respect for other cultures can help lead to better communica­tion. 
Sommers also addressed the need to recognize differences. 
Copy Cat•October 14 at 8:00 pm•Cushing Auditorium
SUB THIS WEEK: 


The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS Tuesday, October 14, 1997 
COMPUTER APPLICATIONS 

Software Architects, Inc. is an energetic, progres­sive information technology consulting firm specializ­ing in application development utilizing client-server, internet and mainframe technologies. We offer exceptional ongoing training opportunities, including a two-week intensive program for new graduates, and an excellent benefits package. 
We will be recruiting on campus Monday, November 3, and Tuesday, November 4, 1997 Sign up at the Placement Office 
• 
Visual C++IMFC • DB21COBOL 

• 
HTML I JAVA • Visual Basic 

• 
Active X • Power Builder 

• 
Access • Oracle I Sybase 

• 
UNIX I C I C++ • SQL Server 


Maryjo Slikas Software Architects, Inc. 3 Westbrook Corp. Ctr., Ste. 400 Westchester, IL 60154 708-531-00 I I mslikas@sark.com 
WWW.SARK.COM 
Chicago • Cincinnati • Columbus Dallas • Denver • Minneapolis • Tampa 
ger vans under the jurisdic­tion of Student Affairs. As it is now, the CSC [Center for Social Concerns] vans are falling apart, and this prob­lem really shouldn't fall upon them," Griffin said. 
The University currently provides transportation infor­mally through the esc, and according to Griffin, the report cites 20 other colleges and universities which all have specific departments regimented to serve the trans­portation needs of students. 

"The burden of difference is the gbJigation to acknowledge it and communicate it," she said. 
"To live in a post-modern colony that acknowledges and celebrates particularism as the vehicle for democratic commu­nication is to prove the burden of difference and to learn to tol­erate and celebrate that which one does not understand," Sommers added. 
Her speech was the second in a year-long series of lectures entitled "Alternative American Geography of 'race,' ethnicity and nation." 




a erkill: 






~r;ctt 
~~p 

Internationally renowned criminologist Dr. Jack Levin will speak on the method and motivation behind serial murder. 

.TICKETS $3 
•Avai 
I able at LaFortune Info Desk 

•Ticket 
covers admission for Copy Cat AND Dr. levin•s lecture 



Mario Cart Tournament 
Tues. & Wed., October 14 & 15 
8:00 pm-1 0:00 pm 
in the HUDDLE 
Sign up in your dorm 
or call Clare Pistey at 1-7757 
Take a study break and show off your amazing Nintendo skills! It's free and it's fun and it's brought to you by 


----------~-------~-~ -~.~---­
Tuesday, October 14, 1997 The Observer • NEWS page 5 
• CANADA 
Help






Logan

help people 

Join the United Way/Notre Dame team and pledge your support today 


Logan-
offering protective services and a range of programs for developmentally disabled people 
,_ 
-,_

American Heart ~ Amencan Heart ~ Association••~ Association••~ 
Fighting Heart Disease Fighting Heart Disease and Stroke and Stroke 



Police blame faulty brakes for killing 43 
Associated Press 
ST-JOSEPH-DE-LA-RIVE, 
Quebec 
A bus carrying nearly 50 senior citizens on a Thanksgiving D·ay trip to view the turning of the seasons plunged into a ravine Monday in central Quebec, killing 43 peo­ple. 
Quebec provincial police said the accident took place in the afternoon about 60 miles north­east of Quebec City. The bus was traveling on Highway 138 and crashed at the bottom of a steep hill heading into a hard right curve. 
Real Ouellette, a Quebec provincial police spokesman, said faulty brakes were the like­ly cause of the tragedy, which killed 43 of the 48 people aboard. There were no skid marks at the bottom of the dan­gerous hill. 
The five survivors were taken to hospitals in nearby La Malbaie and Baie-St.-Paul. Michelle Robitaille, a spokes­woman for the Charlevoix Hospital Center in Baie-St.-Paul, told The Associated Press that five injured people were brought there in critical condi­tion and four of them were transferred to a trauma center in Quebec City. 
Monday's crash was the dead­liest in Canada in recent memo­ry. The passengers, who belonged to a senior citizens club in the Beauce region south­east of Quebec City, were on an outing for Canada's Thanksgiving holiday, Ouellet said. 
.Conditions on the twisting road were dry and the weather was sunny. The hill has a steep grade and is marked by warn­ing signs. Automobile drivers usually take it in first gear and even then brake frequently. 
The bus was headed for Ile aux Coudres, a vacation island in the St. Lawrence River, where seasonal foliage changes are especially brilliant this time of year. 
The island is reached by ferry from St.-Joseph-de-Ja-Rive, a small town with a maritime museum, restaurants, gift shops and farms. The area is popular with tourists. 
Andre Castonguay, a witness who arrived shortly after the accident, said there was a 60­foot drop from the highway to the spot where the Mercier bus landed. 
"I looked out the window and saw the bus," he said. "It didn't make the turn and it fell into the hole." 
At the scene, emergency workers and passersby helped shuttle bodies from the bus, which was propped on its side in the ravine between the hill and an elevated length of rail­road track that straddles a trib­utary of the St. Lawrence. 
A 1974 accident at the same 
location took 15 lives. That acci­
dent was apparently caused by 
engine trouble. 
''I'm so dismayed at the moment," Antoine Deschenes, mayor of the nearby Les Eboulements, said Monday. 'Til probably come to terms with it all after the dust settles in a few days. 

------~ ---~---~--~~-~··--­
The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT October 14, 1997 


When: 

Friday, October 31, 1997 • 10:00 a.m.-3:30p.m. 

Where: 

Jordan Auditorium-College of Business Administration 
For tunher information contact: 

Prof. John Affleck -Graves 631-6370 + affleck-graves.1 @nd.edu 
'Studeftts mai snbiJlit resumes to CO-'lJ02 by October 30 
• ,f ,~ ,, ).~\~,\ ,,;:; ', '~, 1, '~ ' k, i, , 

,. ·-for tllelusion in tH·e Wall Street ·aesume Book _.{ 






VIEWPOINT 

Tuesday, October 14, 1997 page 7 
THE OBSERVER 

NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1997-98 General Board 

Editor-in"Chief Brad Prendergast Managing Editor Business Manager Jamie Heisler Tom Roland Assistant Managing Editor 
Dan Cichalski News Editor........... . ... Heather Cocb Advertising Manager. . ....... jed Peters Viewpoint Editor ...................... Kelly Brooks Ad Design Manager.................... Jennifer Breslow Sports Editor ....... : ......................... Mike Day Production Manager........................ M;trk DeBoy Accent Editor........................Joey Crawford Systems Manager ....... Michael Brouillet Saint Mary's Editor..... .. ..... Lori Allen Controller... .. ........... Kyle Carlin Photo Editor ........ K:uie Kroener 
The Ob!-.erver i!i rhe independent newspaper publi.,hed by the srudcnts of the University ofNorre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. h does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration ofeither instinuion. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned edirorials represent che opinion of rhe majoriry of the Ediror~in-Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Ediror, News Ediror, Viewpoint Ediror, Sports Editor, Accent Editor, Sainr Mary's Editor, Photo Editor, and Associate News Editor. Commentaries, lem:rs and Inside Columns presenr rhe views of the authors, and not neces­sarily rhose ofThe Ob!>erver. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saim Mary's communiry and to all readers. The free expression ofvarying opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 

Editor-in-Chief 631-4542 Business Offce 631-5313 Managing Editor 6.>1-4541 Advertising 631-6900/8840 News/Ph oro 6.~ 1-532.~ Systems 631-8839 Sports 631-4543 Offce Manager 631-7471 Accent/Saint Mary's 6.~ 1-4540 Fax 631-6927 Day Editor/Viewpoint 6.11-5303 Viewpoint E-Mail Viewpoint.l@nd.edu General Information 6.~ 1-7471 Ad E-Mail observer@darwin.cc.nd.edu 
• So, WHAT's Mv Pon~Jr? 
Greetings & Salutations: As If You Care 

"Hihowareyou?" 
Whoosh. 
By the time I'd had time to turn around, my inquisi­tor had already turned her head and resumed her con­versation with her friend. 
lluh, r thought. She was obviously burning up inside with her desire to know how I was doing. Darn it, she really cared about me. I low heartnning. My self-esteem was sky-high. 
Nakasha Ahmad 

Well. I forgot about the incident. It was no big deal. But then ... it happened again. I didn't even have time to squeak out a" hi" before my acquaintance was on the otlwr end of the hall. What was wrong? 
Did I suddenly become really boring or something? Maybe I smelled. But it's happened to other people too. It's the "hihowareyou" phenomenon. 
The word is a streak on everyone's lips. Actually, it's not a word, it's four words, and they all mean different things. "IIi," "hello," and "hey" are greetings, to be usPd whnn you meet someone. "IIow are you?" means that you are asking another human being tho condition of' her nwntal!physieal!nmotional state. And believe it 
• 
or not, if you ask someone how she is, you're supposed to be interested. 
"IIi" means that you acknowledge that there are other human beings on this earth other than you. You're recognizing their existence, useless though it might be to you. "!low are you?" means that you actu­ally want to hear all about them, even about that dis­gusting wart on their nose. It means that you passion­ately care aboul the fact that their aunt's second cousin by marriage has a pet chihuahua with a passion for Cheez-its. 
In other words, if you haven't gotten the drift yet, there's a difference between the two, although most people don't talk as if there is. 
We ask people how they are even if we don't know who they arc. (I've done this before -asked people how they are when I don't even know their NAMES.) 
Actually, this is only part of the problem. When I first started noticing this little quirk on campus, I started a little experiment. When people asked me how I was, I 
actually told them. Nothing freaks people out more than if they actually get a real answer to their question instead of the perfunctory "fine." The minute they real­ized that I was actually going to tell them about some event in my life, their eyes would start to glaze over. Then they would actually start panicking and start to sneak little glances out of the corner of their eyes, looking for an escape route. ANY escape route. "Oh my GOD!" I could see them thinking, "This maniac is vio­lating ALL of society's rules! Does she really think I CAHE about how badly she's doing in philosophy? Why couldn't she say just a nice, little SHORT fine? I didn't want to know. I REALLY didn't want to know." 
(Needless to say, these were acquaintances· of mine, not real friends.) 

I don't know why we would ask if we didn't want to know. "!low are you?" is no longer a caring way of inquiring after a person's well-being -instead, it's just another way to say "hi," and really, you shouldn't be naive enough (as I am) to answer such an inquiry. Cause you know what? It turns out that nobody gives a damn. "How are you?" is a meaningless phrase, such as a machine might use. 
So, I propose that we stop wasting our time and breath. If you don't want to know how I am, then DON'T ASK MEl!!! Because, believe me, I am going to tell you. Because I like telling people about myself. (We all do.) That's why I have a column -so I can tell peo­ple how I am, whether they want to know or not. And if they don't want to know, then they can simply turn the page, without my having to be there to witness it. On the same token, if I ask you how you are, feel free to tell me. I'll gladly listen. 
To make my point more clearly, let me say that it really doesn't bother me if some people don't care how I am -there are lots of people I don't care about either. But I don't ask them how they are either -I simply say "hi" and pass on. If you don't want to know, don't ask, and if you ask, take the time to listen, because time's too short to simply manufacture words from our mouths that we don't even mean. 
Nakasha Ahmad is a sophomore majoring in English literature and political science at Saint Mary's. You can send her e-mail at ahma3495@saintmarys.edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

GARRY TRUDEAU 

• 0UOTE OF THE DAY 

"He prayest best, who loveth best." 
-Samuel Taylor Colerdige 
-----------------------------~-----------~--~--~-------------­



VIEWPOINT

page 8 Tuesday, October 14, 1997 
• lETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Mother Teresa's Light 
COCHIN. India 
Notre Dame/Saint Mary's students participating in each Semester ·Around the World Program have had the opportunity to meet digni­taries from many countries. One of the program's traditions has been to meet Mother Teresa while visiting Calcutta, India. However, before the 1997 SAW group left the states, the director of the program, Professor Cyriac Pullapilly, informed us that meeting Mother Teresa was impossible because of her poor health. 
We were in Mussorie, the northwest part of India up in the Himalayas, when Mother Teresa passed away. Though we wnre fortu­nate enough to have been assigned seats in the stadium where the state funeral was to take place, we simply could not get to Calcutta because every means of transportation had been taken by official state visitors. Furthermore, no hotel close to the city could accommodate 28 of us. Though we were not able to participate personally in the funeral services. we were able to observe a nation mourning the loss of an extraordinary woman. 
It is almost unthinkable that a country with a 98 percent non­Christian population gave a state funeral to a poor Catholic nun. lt was the first state funeral ever given to a Roman Catholic, and thn first ever to be given to a foreigner, and Albanian. The only other private citizen to ever receive a state funeral in India was Mahatma Gandhi, the Father of the Nation. The gun carriage that carried Mother Teresa's body had only been used for carrying the mortal remains of Mahatma Gandhi. Prime Minister Javahar Nehru and Indira Gandhi. Both the wealthy and poor came to say goodbye to their Mother. 70 nations sent their top dignitaries to participate in the funeral, among them Hillary Clinton and the president of Albania. 
The people of India saw Mother Teresa as one of their own because 
of her devotion to the poor. She never asked tht) nnedy and destitute 
whether they were Christian, Ilindu, Muslim, Sikh, Jew, or Parsi, nei­
ther did she attempt to convert any. She simply fed them, sheltered 
them, tended their wounds and helped thnm die as human beings, chil­
dren of God. So she was Mother to all people, and everyone came to 
pay their respects regardless of their religion or ethnic background. 
Mother Teresa touched not just the poor but even politicians -con­gressman, socialists, Muslim Leaguers, and even fanatic Hindu leaders and hard-core Marxists. It is ironic that the communist government of West Bengal, of which Calcutta is the capital. has been the staunchest supporter of her for several decades. The government has gone to great lengths to accommodate her needs to run her homes for the orphans and the dying. Similarly, public institutions and businesses showed great deference to the Mother and her work for the poor. The state-run airlines, Indian Airlines and Air India, not only allowed her free passage but also made unscheduled stops in order to help her. An Indian Airlines flight ready to take off suddenly turning around and taxiing to the terminal to pick up Mother Teresa was not a very rare occurrence. 
It is astounding that a poor nun became. such an influential figure in the world. It all started when the young Sistor Ternsa left the some­what comfortable life of a teaching nun in the order of the Sisters of Loretto and went onto the streets of Calcutta to be with the dying and the destitute. She and the young women who followed her formed the Congregation of the Sisters of Charity. The only possession these nuns have are two white and blue sarees and one bucket. These are all that Mother Teresa left behind when she passed away. But, she did leave a momentous legacy. Many thousands of young women serve the poor in the slums of metropolises in over 120 countries. Mother Teresa and her sisters were even invited to such unlikely places as the old Soviet Union and Eastern European countries. The only country shn was denied admittance to was communist China. 
Every time the Semester Around the World students visited Mother Teresa. she invited them to give some time to the service of the poor, either in their own hometowns or in one of her many homes for tho poor around the world. Her invitation is a challenge to all of us at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's who are given so much in talents and material possessions. 
This invitation from Mother Teresa, which I was able to hear person· ally several times as a child. still reverberates in my subconscious. My participation in this year's Semester Around the World program brought me to a fuller realization of the fact. that I have a family far beyond my nuclear family. The underpaid waiters in China who served us, the pushy street vendors in Bali, and the beggars on the streets in Mumba-all took on a differentdimension. I started to see them as my brothers and sisters. not just strangers who need my pity. Someday I hope to be able to serve this family like Mother Teresa, at least in some small measure. 
Gita Pullapilly Junior Ocrober I0, 1997 


Aft(~r !waring Father Berwdiet Ashley's talk on Thursday, I finally concluded that thn series of lectures sponsored by tlw Strake Foundation lwld no value nnitlwr on this campus nor anywhoro. After tlw first two disrussions which wore supposed to fostnr discussion on homos(~xuality, I waitml to sen if tlw Strake Foundation would bring in mom SJH~akers that gave a balancml pn~­S(~ntation on homosoxuality. lqstead, tlw pn~S(~ntation by Ashley was offensiw and lacked any intelh~ctual or pastoral asrwcts. 
Let me just say that I am homos.exual and was pnrsonally ofTendnd by some of Ashley's misdin~cted commnnts on Thursday. llow sonworw could stand at a podium and tell me that my soxual identity is a "disability" and rnl'er to me as a "vic­tim" was appalling. I do not (:onsider lwt­erosexuality an achievmnent nor do I son homosexuality as a disability. I sen having a happy and healthy life and being honest with yourself an aehievoment. I, and many other people I know, did not begin to achiev(~ this until coming to terms with their sexuality. Ashley stood at a podium and posed the question, "!low can they load a happy life?" That comment led me to ques­tion if this priest knew or had ever coun­selod anyone struggling with their sexual identity. Thore am so many people in the world who have gone through depression and denial trying to lmtd heterosexual liv()s. It was only after coming to terms with thoir sexual orientation that they were able to h~ad a happy life. 
Also after Ashley posed that question, I could not fathom how anyone could think this lecturo would lwlp discussions of homo­sexuality on campus. 
Thnre are many students questioning tlwir sexuality. There are also many stu­dents who have eorl1!~ to terms with !wing homosexual hut have no idea what will hap­pen in tho future, in tPrms of relationships and finding happiness. 

linn~ is a priest saying that pursuing a homosexual lifostyln and rolationships and !wing happy arP inrompatibiP. 
Otlwr comnwnts AshiPy made wPn' based on hurtful sterootypns a;HI had no intPllec­tual basis. To comnwnt that lw considnn~d "unstabln family life" a"cause" for homo­soxuality was both ofTPnsiw and a promo­lion of a rwgativP stPrPolype of homosexu­als. Most of Ashlny's other romnwnls con­('OI'IWd sexual activity and homosPxtwlity. No otlwr aspects of homosexual oril'ntation or otlwr asJwds of long-tPrm n~lationships worn discussed. 
In conclusion, I fool tlw Strake Foundation is making no attmnpt to fostor a healthy dis­cussion of homosexuality. Instead, tlwy are nwrdy promoting stl'reotypes and bringing UIHiualif'i(~d SJJPakers offering an unbal­anced vi(~W of current issues on lwmospxu­ality. 
Anonymous Senior, on:calllf'LIS Ocrober 12, 1997 
• SUBMITTING lETTERS 
We want to hear from you! 
The Viewpoint department encourages letters to the editor that are submitted via disk or e-mail. Letters can be dropped off at 314 LaFortune or e­mailed at Viewpoint.! @nd.edu. 

A Modest Proposal for Professor Charles Rice 
Professor Charles Hice addresses a serious problem concerning us all when he writes about the high cost of education (The Observer, Oct. 
10). 
He could provide a service to tho University community if he went beyond reading the New York Times and Trusteeship and actually talked to a person here at Notre Dame to find out why costs are so high and where the money goes. He might also learn the purpose of the endowment. 
Personally, I wish he'd explain how my research on insects drives students from 'moral married lives' into prostitution. 
Of course if Professor Hi(:e thinks law sdwol tuiti.on is too high, he could always give back part of his salary .... 
Professor Mitch Dushay Deparrmenr of Bi<'logical Sciences October I 0, I 997 


-
ACCENT 

Tuesday, October 14, 1997 page 9 
Saint Mary's College 
•

H11 tiianistic Stu 
1es 
By GRETCHEN TRYBUS the students who "help set the agen­Accent Writer da of what to discuss in class," according to Hicks, and learn the 

What is the 
W
hat is llumanistie skills of speaking and listening as 
Studies you ask? Well well as reading and writing. 
let me tell you: It is a Students read works by authors 

value of a 
program that studies such as Virgil, Luther, Erasmus, the ideas. history, literature and art Augustine, Dante, Machiavelli, of western culture as an integrated Nietzsche, Freud, Woolf, Camus and 

liberal arts 
whole. Now you may be thinking, Chaucer as part of a colloquium well what docs that mean? What it which correlates with each history means is that students study the course. Great music of Western 

education? 
human culture by looking at historic composers is studied as well as fine works of literature, art and music arts from artists such as Giotto, El and study not only the pieces them­Greco, Rembrandt, Picasso and 

"[A liberal arts educa­
selves but also their historical eon­Michelangelo. The role of women in text. Humanistic studies is an inter­society in various eras is also consid­

tion] teaches us what it is 
disciplinary program that docs not ered. 

to know and not to 
study a single subject but rather One of these women is Ceeily many combined. lleron, the daughter of Thomas 

know, and what must be 
This program was founded by More, and the paradigm of 

the aim of study; what 
Professor Bruno P. Schlessinger, a Hnnaissanee humanist woman, both current professor at Saint Mary's, liberally educated and active in soci­

are valor, temperance 
and was inspired by Christopher ety. 

and justice; what the dif­
Dawson, a British historian. Critical and creative thinking, Professor Schlessinger studied reading, writing and speaking are 

ference is between ambi­
Dawson and took up his ideas and very marketable skills in today's job 

tion and greed, servitude 
put them into practice here at Saint market. Students who graduate with Mary's. These men thought that a degree in humanistic studies, who 

and loyalty, license and 
many college students go through have learned these skills, can then 

liberty; by what signs we
college like they would a "cafeteria," go on to a variety of jobs and as acting chair and Associate eareers. Some go on to careers in 

may recognize true and 
Professor Philip llicks from Saint business because the corporate 

solid contentment; how
Mary's puts it. .Students only sample world has made it clear that a liberal some things never really knowing arts education is a valuable asset. 

much we should fear 
them. Others go on to careers as doctors, 

death pain and shame; 
This program strives to develop a lawyP;rs, volunteers, work in public source of unity in topics of study so relations, and many other things. 

what hardships to avoid, 
that students are able to see the big The possibilities seem to be endless 

what to endure and how; 
picture in learning. Humanities is after learning to work as a team, as concerned with big ideas such as students in the humanities have 

what springs move us, 
truth, beauty and goodness in histor­done. 

and the cause of such dif­
ical contexts. Recently the humanistic studies Saint Mary's students in the department at Saint Mary's celebrat­

ferent impulses in us." 
humanistic studies program learn ed their 40th anniversary for two through discussion rather than lec­days. Graduates attended seminars tures. Class sizes are usually and other festivities and put together 

-16th-century essayist 
between only 15 to 25 students, a booklet of stories appreciating and 
Montaigne
enabling students to discover them­reminiscing about their major. selves and express their views. It is 
moved three weeks ago to Wyoming. They didn't I My mother calls me everyday without fail. She ask me how I felt about them moving and now

.. 
g == ~ e 
lives over a thousand miles away and still wants I'm scared that I'm going to lose all contact with Dear Missing, 

~ e 
to know what I'm doing every moment of every my old friends and my old neighborhood. I don't I have a mixtape you could borrow and some­day. She gets angry when I'm not in the room even know where my bedroom is; How am I sup-. tirnes . .my roommate~? aJ1d Imake s'mores over when she calls and her feelings are hurt if I ever posed to cope? · t~~?toye in.our han, V\lliichis a little like a camp­.C>t try to end the conversation. · How can I distance ......,-So Sad in Siegfried t'i.re;butbesides thatyou'reon your own . myself from her without hurting her feelings? 
-Flailing in Farley

=== 
= = = Dear Sad, Dear Lola. 
~ 

Try finding an internship or job in your old I'm scared I'm going to fall off the top bunk.I I Dear Flailing, home during the summer and living with a This terror is dominating my life. I can't sleep. 
...
Your mama loves you. Be glad. There is prob­friend. Let your parents know that you are glad Help! ably no way to give her the hint· without giving they have found a new house but your home is -Bad Dreams in Badin her the boot. Maybe you should start writing let­still the old home. Make an extra effort towrite 
=ters instead of tying up the phone lines. This and call and e-mail, If yourfriendships are true way you can write when you have time and she then they will last. · ' Dear Bad Dreams. 
will still get to hear all of the news. Ask your R.A. for a rail. Try strapping yourself to the bed. Did you ever fall off the bed when...I = Dear Lola, you weren't on the top bunk? Probably not. Go 
Dear Lola. John Denver was my hero. Now he is dead. Is to the Counseling Center and visualize walking I am a sophomore from New York and I am still there anyone you know who'd like to share a across a high bridge while smiling. very close to all of the kids I grew up with. I am "Rocky Mountain High" sing~a-long with me? heading home for fall break. The -Missing the Great Big Featherbed at 

ponly thlG~ii~~i~f~~iZEI~~~;~~!~!;,e3;:i~lQr j~~ ~~~~~:Je::: ::op your 
gaughen:l@nd.edu 
·:t~t.F 



Dear Lola, 


sa: 

The Observer accepts classifleds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre l lame oflice, .314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to .3 p.m. ;H .~0') I laggar College Center. l )eadline for next-d,ty cl.ts­
Classifieds sifleds is Jp.m. All classifleds must be prepaid. The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to nlit all classifleds f(lf content without issuing refund,. 
NOTICES 
000 THE COPY SHOP 000 
LaFortune Student Center 
Store Hours 
Mon.-Thur.: 7:30 a.m.-Midnight 
Fri.: 7:30 a.m.-7:00p.m. 
Sat.: Noon-6:00p.m. 
Sun.: Noon-Midnight 
(closed home football Sat.'s) 
Phone 631-COPY 
ILOST & FOUND I 
would appreciate anyone who finds keys to room 308 to call x1862 If you find the little grit who stole them. you can also call x1862 
blue bookbag lost in bookstore on 10/1. if found call steve at x­2070. REWARD OFFERED!! 
LOST: BLUE FOSSIL WATCH with leather band call: john -4197 reward'! please! 
lost CAMERA at west quad foJmal call ali X1511 
LOST: key ring with TAZ key cham. last seen on lakeside of Bond Hall. please call Mike at X3528 
FOUND: keys, thurs nile @ senior bar or coaches call ann 273-9942 
WANTED 
LARGE REAL ESTATE CO. NR. CAMPUS IS SEEKING RELIABLE PART-TIME RECEPTIONIST. PHONE & COMPUTER EXPERI­ENCE A MUST. $7.75/HOUR, 1-6 M-F; 9-2 SAT. SEND RESUMES TOP 0 BOX 11397, SOUTH BEND, IN 46634. ' 
Gold'! Wanted reps., unlimited 
earning potential!! 
616-461-6772. 
I am looking for a ride to Ottawa Illinois, or at least to Joliet. I would like to leave after the game on Saturday. I can pay gas and tolls. If you are going, please call Ethan at x1039. 
Frau Williams, since we are all going to have MHO's on Friday, could we just make this a MHW? 
Tedman, Take me to Mrs. D. 
FREE TRIPS & CASH' SPRING 
BREAK! Outgoing individuals-sell 
15 & go FREE. Cancun. South Padre. Mazatlan, Jamaica, South Beach, FL. Guaranteed Best 
Prices. 1-800-SURFS-UP. 
www.studentexpress.com 
''Spring Break..."Take 2" .. Hiring Reps! Sell15 .. Take 2 Free. Hot destinations! Free Parties, Eats. Drinks. SunSplash 1-800-426­771 O/www.sunsplashtours.com 
WANTED-VOLUNTEER Girls Volleyball Coach 7th & 8th Grade Our Lady of Hungary Schoof South Bend Need own transportation Contact Sue Mason 289-3272 
~-F_O_R_RE__N_T__~I 
BULLA RD. MCKINLEY TERRACE, SWANSON PARK 3 BDRM HOMES, 1 & 2 BDRM DUPLEXS ALSO. 2726551 
ROOMS IN PRIVATE HOME FOR 
FOOTBALL WEEKENDS AND 
OTHER ND-SMC EVENTS. 
VERY CLOSE TO CAMPUS -5 
MIN. DRIVE OR 15-20 MIN. WALK. 
243-065B. 
THAT PRETIY PLACE, Bed and 
Breakfast Inn has space available for football/parent wknds. 5 Rooms with private baths, $70-$90, 
Middlebury, 30 miles from campus. Toll Road, Exit #107, 1-B00-41 B·94B7. 
FURNISHED HOMES GOOD 
AREA NORTH OF NO FOR NEXT 
SCHOOL YEAR 2773097 
FOR SALE 
·B9 Buick LeSabre,4D, 96K, V. good, Clean, One owner. $4000 Call:232-3707 -91 Ford Taurus,HBack, 4d, 72K, One owner, V. clean, Call: 2BB· 280B 
-B6 Honda Prelude, 20, V. Clean. 
V.G condition Just $1 BOO. Call: 277-3254 -90 Honda Civic, V. Clean, Like new, 5spd, Low Milge, Just $3BOO, Call: Hamad. 277-3254 
I have 3 Ga's for Navy game great for parents and other lam call Eric x1517 
91 Saturn SL2, V.G. condition, cal1:631·7629. 
Stud Tix 4 USC/BC w/stud ID!!! $50 for both Call X1459 
GREAT DEAL on 35mm camera. Brand new Minolta Maxxum 500si, Sigma 28-80; 70-210 lenses, 4 filters. List $B25 Sell $625. 277·5912 tA 10 pm 
~~---T_Ic_KE__T_s__~ 
I NEED GA TIXS ALL ND HOME GAMES.272-6551 
NEED 4 STUD TIX -GA'D 
FOR NAVY CALL TODD 243 5609 
Wanted: Individual wants tickets lor LSU/Notre Dame Game. Will pay cash. Phone (31B)752-1208 or (31 B) 7 4 7 -BB20. 
Need BC GA's. Grandparents are coming in and will pay good money! Call Frank, 4-2340. 
Alumni needs 3 GA USC tixs. Call Megan at 773-327-1480. 
I need 2 USC GAs. 634·3880 
USC GA's needed DESPERATE· 
LY!!!!!!!!! Call Colin at 2BB-2504 
FOR SALE 
3 USC G.A.s $160 abo 2B4-5116 
2 BC GA's for sale (757)671-1649 
Call Peter 634-1579 
USC stud tix $30 2B7-999B 
Married stud tix $110 both 4-4610 (even) 
USC student ticket for sale. x3476 
For Sale: 6 USC GAs. Call (800)808-2221 x254 (Rob W.) 
For Sale: 2 BC student tickets (nol GA's) call Jenny @ 687-8435 
Married student tickets for sale 273­1997 
NOTRE DAME FOOTBALL TICKETS BUY -SELL -TRADE 
232·005B 
CONFIDENTIAL TICKET·MART, INC. 
BUY/SELL ND SEASON AND INDI­VIDUAL GAME TICKETS. 674-7645. 
NO FOOTBALL TICKETS FOR SALE DAYTIME#: 232·237B EVENING#: 2BB-2726 
NO TICKETS WANTED DAYTIME#: 232-237B EVENING #; 2BB·2726 
FOR SALE 
N.D. G.A.'S 
271·9412. 
WANTED N D G A'S TO ALL HOME GAMES 271 1526 
WANTED: 2 BC TIX. WILL TRADE FOR WVA GA'S OR CASH. CALL JOHN AT 
(415) 66B-1391 BY 10/1B. 
USC .. BOSTON.. NAVY W.VA.GAs FOR SALE 272-7233 

GARTH BROOKS IN CHICAGO 272·7233.. 
I need 6 GA BC tickets! I'll take as many as I can get' Please call Amanda at 634-0831! 
FOR SALE; ND vs. USC Tickets 273-3911 
BC TIX For Sale (Best Offer) 2B8·3975 
1 USC Student GA Ticket for sale. Call Dave@ x 1911 
... usc ... 2 GAs 4-SALE 1-7747 leave olfer 
2 G.A.tickets For Sale USC, Navy, 
W. Virg. Jeremy; 612-427·3444 
USC STUDENT TIC FOR SALE ·John -4197 
stud GA for BC for $65 Call 44465 
2 BC GA'S NEEDED call Jen @ X OB49 
PERSONAL 
000 THE COPY SHOP 000 
LaFortune Student Center ,J High-Speed Copies ,J Canon Color Laser Copies ,J Digital Color Printing ,J Binding & Laminating ,J Public Fax Service 631-FAX 1 
Phone 631·COPY 
Have you turned in your LONDON PROGRAM APPLICATION??? 
B.O. M. 
Productions Tuesday Finnigans Irish Pub 
RESERVE COURT TIME AT 
STEPAN for your club or organization. Wednesday, Oct. 15, 4pm 
Montgomery Theatre, LaFortune. Call Student Activities, 6912 if you have questions. 
nothing today 

BIG JIM 2 days till do-nuts only a few more days and then i'm done 
my freaking program actually works'!! ha 
breathe in through your nose, out through your mouth ... 
The top 1 0 quotations from Tony Rossmiller's great Pitt Road Trip: 
10) "It's a lavender truck from Grand Mound. Iowa-hey, that's right by my house. ""That figures." 
9) Palm trees at a BP in Pittsburgh. How do they do that? Sir. could you take a picture of us? 
8) Tony, you just don't do windows like Mark. You're a better gas pumper, though. 
7) "I've never flipped anyone off before." "You have now.'' 
6) There goes all of your topsoil. 
5) It's half Judy, half Tony. It's Jony. 
4) Cows! (Mooo) Sheep' (BAAA) Horses (Pbbbt-gum goes flying out on floor.) ·3) The best thing to come out of Ohio: I·BO 
2) Well. you could just go hop the fence over there. But make sure you bring back a gourd. 
1) UNCLE JESSE'S PACKIN' HEAT' II 
Chuck­It's a she-thing. not an us-thing.. We don't know if you're out... Find out for yourself' 
-The MeG girls 
Heather... IT'S OVERII! I'M SO PROUD OF YOU! Ready for Thursday night?!? 
-MK:-) 

Ooooh, what's Thursday night? 
Cowboys rot. 
Succession '97! 3C Annex forever' 
Wafflehead sucks. 

Audrea­. Pet any snakes lately?! 
Leggo My Eggo. 

Shh! The LSATS are tomorrow. We love you Meg han! 
Garth Brooks over a big party? Yeah, whatever. 
-
page 10 
• SMC VOLlEYBALL 
Two wins for Belles should carry to match with Calvin 
By SHANNON RYAN Sports Writer 
While the Saint Mary's volleyball team was red-faced scrambling for balls, beat­ing up on opponents and purpling with bruises in the Kalamazoo Triangular Saturday, its coach was dressed to a tee, standing on a platform at Graceland College receiving a trophy. 
Head coach Jennie Joyce, a two-time all-American volleyball player, did not completely abandon her team as she spent the weekend being inducted into her alma mater's hall of fame. 
Assistant coach Julie Reininga proved a worthy substitute as she led the Belles to a 3-2 victory over Alma College and a 3-0 sweep of Kalamazoo College. 
"We felt totally fine with Julie filling in," freshman Megan Jardina confirmed Reininga's success. "She was really posi­tive, and we felt completely confident." 
Saint Mary's negated last week's two consecutive losses with strong weekend play and improved its record to 10-12. 
The squad started off slowly, slipping into its typical underdog position. The first two games against Alma College indi­cated the Belles had still not removed themselves from their r)Jt as they sunk deeper into a hole, 15-12 and 15-4. 
But someone showed up with a tow truck and pulled the Belles to a 15-9, 15­7, 15-8 victory. 
That someone was actually the three­some of Agnes Bill, Betsy Connolly and Jayne Ozbolt. 
"I watched the tape, and these three had terrific blocking," Joyce said. "It was really key." 
15-2 hi t-an d-run favored host team. 
"Kalamazoo beat Alma, so they wen~ expected to win," sr.nior co-captain Connolly said. "It felt really awesome when we beat them." 
Joyce attributed Saint Mary's double victory to its practices. 
"We really got the passing problem smoothed out," she said. "We worked hard. Our systems got going, and wn were a lot crispnr skill-wise." 
The Belles will ridn on a wave of conli­denee into tonight's home game against Calvin College. 
"We're well-matched against Cnlvin, and they're always one of our best games," Connolly said. "Every single pnr­son is excited coming off the weekend and heading into our last two home games this week." 
The Belles will need to be weary of Calvin's quick offense and aggressive play. Tonight's powerhouse, coadwd by Mary Schutton, poses a serious threat, boasting a .640 winning percentage. 
However, the Belles arc focused, confi­dent, and arc having fun for the llrst time in almost three weeks. 
And after Joyce's dream-like weekend, she's in no position to fear anyonn. Joyce is hungry for this win and wants to be there to savor it. · 
"I expeet us to take this momentum and run with it," .Joyce said. "Wo'rn going to play big time defense. An at-tlw-net, on­the floor. in-your face game." 

The Observer/Brandon Candura 
On Wednesday, the Irish lose Anne Makinen when she leaves for her national team. 
Soccer 
continued from page 16 

Today's game against tho Badgnrs marks tho socond-to-last road gamn for tlw Irish until the Big East tour­nament in Piscataway, N . .J. AftPr fadng Syracuso, Notre Damn has a !'our-gamn homnstand prior to tlw Big East tournament. 
"It will be nieo for us to bn home," Pntrueelli said. "It is a lot less taxing on our bodins. We will bn frnsh lilr the toumamnnts. It gives the guys a chance to relax, study, go to classns, and gnt caught up. All that givns us a lift." 
• SPORTS BRIEFS 

Notre [)arne Martial Arts Institute -Tae kwon do and jujit­su practice for beginners will take place from 4 to 6 p.m. on Thursdays and 6 to 8 p.m. on Sundays in Room 218 Hockne Memorial. All arc welcome. 
Field Hockey -Practice will be on Mondays and Wednesdays from 9 to 10 p.m. in Loftus. Call Maureen at x4281 or Stephanie at 
Petrucelli reminds all that tlw tnam has not yet attained its full strength. 
"We havn had lots of dif!'nrent things going on," he said. "Anne !Makinen! will be leaving on Wednesday to play with her national team, so she won't be with us on Saturday. .!Pnny iStreifferl has not be!m on track this season. 
"We are still trying to come togdh­er. In the past, W!~ have b!wn knieked up a lillie bit. I think it is good that it hasn't happrne-d yet. We are better now than we were last Octobnr." 
The toam is focusing on coming together today in Madisou against Wisconsin. 
x2741 with any questions. 

Synchronized Swimming Practices arc held on Mondays and Wednesdays from 8 to 10 p.m. and Sundays from 10 a.m. to 1 p.m. 
Men's basketball walk-on try­outs -Tryouts will be held on Monday and Tuesday, Oct. 27 and 28, from 7 to 8:30p.m. in the Joyce Center. Candidates must attend both sessions. 

Tuesday, October 14, 1997 
The Observer/John Daily 

Pangborn was able to find its first victory of the season, defeating Badin 24-0. Badin now falls to 0-4-1. 
BP, Lyons finish with 0-0 tie 
By BRIAN KESSLER 
Sports Writer 
Lyons Hall took the field last Sunday, putting its 4-1 record on the line against undefeated BrePn-Phillips (2-0-3). The two squads were pretty evenly matched entering the game, with Lyons and BP ranking third and fifth in the power poll, respectively. As expect­ed, the teams battled hard throughout the game, which eventually resulted in a score­less tic.• 
Neither t<~am would give much on defense. 
As Lyons captain Angie Fister rnealls. "Both teams played strongly. but it was clearly the defenses that domi­nated the game." 
BP's offense put together two solid drives, advancing the ball all the way inside Lyons 10­yard line. However, the Banshm1s were turned away by Lyons on both occasions. Besides those two goal-line stands. the Lyons "D" came up with two interceptions thrown by BP quarterback Katie Meehan. 
Angie Fister and Chrissy 
Scottie each had a pick, but were unable return them for much yardage. 
On the other side of the ball , Lyons really struggled. The offense didn't connect well throughout the game, resulting in few threatening drives. Quarterback Kathy Tschanz threw some good passes, but the wide-receivers just couldn't hold on to them. 
Breen-Phillips will round out its season against Walsh in a "battle of the unbeatens." Lyons, on the other hand, ended its season at 4-1-1. The team is looking forward to the playoffs and is taking time off his week so its players can recover from injuril~S. 
According Fister, "All the teams in the playoffs start pretty evenly. We are confi­dent, but we realize that it's tough to beat a team twice." 
Pangborn 24, Badin 0 
Pangborn and Badin battled on Sunday afternoon for brag­ging rights. Actually, they were battling for the right to stay out of the basement in women's inter hall football standings. Pangborn entered the game in last place with a record of 0-4, while Badin, only one place better, stood at 0-3-1. 
Surprisingly, Pangborn came out and dominated the game from start to finish. The Foxes scored on the opening drive and jumped out to 12-0 half­time lead. 
They never looked back, adding another touchdown by Nikki Douillet and ending the game on a Liz Hogan intercep­tion return for a touchdown. The game was called with 1:40 remaining, the Foxes were ahead by a score of 24-0. 
Pangborn's defense played the best it had all season. The defensive line recorded several sacks en route to the shutout. 
According to co-captain Natasha Young, "The team really played well and had fun. It feels great to finally get our first win." 
Pangborn now stands at 1-4 and may have a chance at the playoffs despite its losing record if it can pick up another win against Howard. Badin fell to 0-4-1 and dropped back into last place. 
page 11 
• MAJOR lEAGUE BASEBALL 

Orioles withstand 
rally in ninth inning 
By TOM WITHERS Randy Myers leading off and Associated Press Writer Matt Wiliiams followed with an RBI double. Sandy Alomar flied CLEVELAND out to right a'tld Tony 
The Baltimore Orioles are Fernandez hit another RBI going home. After three har­double that brought the poten­rowing days in Cleveland, tial tying run to the plate. Camden Yards has probably Marquis Grissom reached on never looked so good. an infield single -Myers 
Baltimore withstood another knocked down a comebacker ninth-inning rally by the but couldn't come up with the Indians on Monday night for a ball -and Bip Roberts struck 4-2 victory over Cleveland that out as Grissom stole second. prolonged the Orioles' October With thw crowd shaking the for at least a few more days. ballpark, Myers finally ended it 
Scott Kamieniecki and with an assist from Roberto Jimmy Key combined to pitch Alomar. Omar Vizquel hit a shutout ball over eight innings, grounder up the middle that and Geronimo Berroa hit a the second baseman ran down two-run single as the Orioles on the outfield grass, and avoided an early offseason. Alomar made an off-balance 
"Whatever chance we might throw that beat the speedy still have, we still have a Vizquel by a step. chance," Kamieniecki said. ''This is nothing to worry "Until you deep-six us, we're about," Vizquel said. "We've going to come out playing." still got momentum on our 
The Orioles probably didn't side. We're still up 3-2. I think look over their shoulders as the expectations tonight were they pulled away from Jacobs too high. I don't think anyone Field late Monday night. wanted to go back to They're certainly relieved to Baltimore. I think everyone have escaped the clutches of wanted to win too much." Cleveland's ballpark with a win Fans had come ready to cele­after two logic-defying losses. brate the Indians' second trip 
Eric Davis, whose comeback to the World Series in three from colon cancer surgery has years, but the Orioles wouldn't given the Orioles an emotional cooperate. And there was an lift, connected for a pinch­ominous moment early on homer off Paul Assenmacher in when winds whipped the ball­a two-run ninth that also park's giant American flag included an RBI single by Cal around its pole and tore it. Ripken. The flag was lowered after 
Compared to two straight the third inning, and the nerve-racking weekend games, Orioles' victory assured there Game 5 seemed almost a wouldn't be any AL pennant snoozer. The Jacobs Field waving over Cleveland for at crowd of 45,068, which least another couple days. screamed itself hoarse during After an off-day, the best-of­Cleveland's stunning wins on 7 series will resume Saturday and Sunday, was Wednesday after-noon at rather subdued. Camden Yards with 
That is until the ninth, when Cleveland's Charles Nagy fac­trailing 4-0, the Indians finally ing Mike Mussina, who struck stirred with some more out an ALCS record 15 in October drama. Game 3 and will now pitch in 
David Justice singled off the twilight. 
-

The Niles Haunted House and SmallScares Fun House, on Bell Road, 112 mi. west of US 31 in Niles. 
Call (616) 684-3771 for more information or visit our web pages at www.haunted.org or www.hauntedamerica.com 

page 12 The Observer • INTERHALL FOOTBALL Tuesday, October 14, 1997 


Wild · s Shamto~}{s, ... . entered the record to Sc.Q;. Howatd~,preW game itfthe eigb;th position, ously ranked 1:l!th; is now o~ now stand at 2·3-0; 3-2 for the season: Botlt sides faced sMbacks 
The key t? \tVaJsh's success~ going into the game. Not all of was its run arne. Not ' the Critne's players were pre· 
only did tllis ~ ..•. t in positi\1~ yardage, bnt tt altH> helped the team maintain possession and .minifilize opponllnities for Howard's hffen~e; '~" 
In the first quarter, Howard gainded possession after . holding the Walsh offense to only 10 yards, but an illegal block caused the team to lose momentum. 
On Walsh's next possession, a quarterback keeper up the middle resulted in a Wild Women touchdown. Walsh converted the extra point on Carolyn Parnell's pass to Laura McGrimley to move ahead 7~0. 
The Walsh offense returned strong after half-time although it never scored the points to prove it. 
The Howard offense man• aged two second'-half first downs but could not reach the .end zone. "In this game we really worked on ball con­trol," said Wild Women head coach Shannon Neely. "This win was a good way to keep our momentum going as we look toward the playoffs." 
sent, forcing s~roe players to play on both offense and defense. Several of McGlinn's coacbe!:l were in Pittsburgh and could not return in· time for the game. 
Early in the first half. nei· ther side was able to assem­ble a successful drive. Possession switched sides four times before McGlinn was tackled in its own end zone, giving Crime two points. . To start the second half, Off-Campu.s had the ball but again was unable to make a first down. McGlinnran back the punt and prepared a drive for the end zone but theireffortswere thwarted by an Off-Campus interception. This turnover resulted in a subsequent Off-Campus touchdown, making the score 9·0. 
Bad luck for McGlinn pre· vented a late·game come­back. 
McGlinn finishes off its sea­son tonight against Pasquerilla East. Both teams await the final rankings. The top eight will advance to the 
• playoffs. 
Apply NOW! 
Session Deadlines: 
Spring •October 31, 1997 
Summer -March 31/ 1998 Fall -June 1 1998
1 

The The Graduate ~ School of ~n Polntncal
wASHINGlo~ ~ Management 
GW is an equal opporlunily/aflirmative action institution 

Welsh gets crushed by PW, 26-0 
By TIM CASEY Sports Writer 
The Pasquerilla West Purple Weasels improved their record to 3-1-1 with a 26-0 victory over Welsh in women's interhall action on Sunday. 
PW ran out to a quick 7-0 lead after quarterback Liz McKillop threw a short touch­down pass to receiver Mary Laflin. PW continued its big offensive day on its next posses­sion. 
McKillop and running back Alison Kriegel ran the option well on that drive which culmi­nated when McKillop found tight end Kelly McMahon open in the end zone for a touch­down. Gina Couri caught the one point conversion to make it 14-0. 
Welsh showed improvement on its final possesion of the half. Quarterback Stephanie Eden found receiver Katie Hak open in the middle of the field fol­lowed by a 30-yard completion to Sarah Lutz. An interception by PW's Amy Crawford halted the drive and ended the half. 
The second half started out as a defensive struggle. Both Welsh and PW went three downs and out on their first possessions of the hall'. The Purple Weasels' Lauren Voitier intorcepted a Welsh pass which led to the first points of the half. 
Mary Laflin ran for a touch­down on a reverse following Voitier's intflrception to widen the margin to 20-0. PW's defense continued to shinn as cornerback Mary Hepburn interceptnd another Welsh pass. while Eden was under heavy pressure. ThH Purple Wnasnls ended thn game with a 20-yard touchdown strike from McKillop 
GW Semester inWashington 
An Undergraduate Program in Political Management 
. Spring, Sununcr, and Fall Sessions . 
. 
Make Connections to Launch Your Career 
Now Accepting Applications On A Rolling Admissions Basis 

-
~ 
_.........--­
For More Information, And To Receive An Application, Contact: 
(800) 367-4776, (202) 994·6000 http://www.gwu.edu/Ngspm 
Now Accepting Applications On A Rolling Admissions Basis. 
Apply NOW I Spring Session Deadline: October 31, 1997 

to Gina Couri to make tiH) final score 26-0. 
PW coach Huss Cech was pleased with his team's perfor­mance. ''I'm happy with the tlw way wn played, especially com­ing off a tough loss to PE last wonk," he said. 
Welsh was led by quarterback Stephanie Eden, running back Knlly Napalm, and recnivers Katie Hak and Sarah Lutz. The Whirlwind defense was headPd by Jody Lucnnit and Kit llamilton. 
Despite falling to 1-4 Welsh coach Brian Sweet said, "Wo had a great PfTort today. The girls went down fighting and ncvnr quit. Wn may have lost but at least we looked good." 
Pasqucrilla East 25, Farley 6 
The l'asquerilla East Pyros once again provnd that th<)y'rp deserving of thn No. I ranking in women's interhall football with a 25-6 victory Sunday over Farlny's Finest. 
!\l'ter stopping Farloy on tlwir first possession, PE shownd its of'fensive explosivennss. 
TuESDAY, 
OCTOBER IS 


Quarterback Elizabeth Plummer pitched the ball to running back Ann Searle on an option play for a 6-0 lead. Both defenses played well for the next three possessi<lns, resulting in no points. Plummer again found S!)arle for a touchdown, this timP through the air, to give the Pyros a 12-0 halftinw load. 
PE eombinnd its option ganw and rollout passing attack to g<)t an early SfH:on d half score. Plummer threw hPr second touchdown of tlw game to Searle and ran in tlw one point conversion to make it 19-0. 
The PE dcfensn shut down Farley on its next offnnsive pos­snssion, forcing thn Finest to punt after three unsucessful plays. Plummer ran a :·W-yard quarterback draw for a first down and before finding receiv­nr Kerry llanlny on a booting for another touchdown. 
The Finnst lived lip to its nick­name with an impressive l'inal fJOSS<~ssion of the garnn. Quartnrbaek Jcn Geraci and recnivnr l.iz I'Ptruska hooked up for a 50-yard touchdown pass to make the final score 25-6. 
BUY DIAMONDS BELOW WHOLESALE! 
9!J!i. f!JJeclv g::. Cf6rY. 
Since 1921 CHICAGO • NEW YORK • AN1WERP •ISRAEL 
Direct Diamond Importers 
1-800-922-0090 
or visit our website at 
sapeck.com 
Winner of The Reader's Digest LookSmart Editor's Choice Award 
JAZZMAN's 
NITE CLUB 
525 N. Hill Street 233-8505 . 
THURSDAY COLLEGE NIGHTS 
OCTOBER 16TH FEATURING 
FLORIDA EVANS SHOW BAND& REVUE 
Doors open 8:00 p.m. 21 and over with proper ID's $2.00 with Student 10 -$4.00 without Uniform Police Security ­Lighted Parking 
Coming Thursdays: 
TASHI STATION  Nov. 6™  
SKALCOHOLIKS  Nov. 2P1  
TASHI STATION  Dec. 41"  
233-8505  

Save $1.00 With This Ad Before 11:00 PM 
--------~~~~~---------------·---------­
Tuesday, October 14, 1997 The Observer • INTERHALL FOOTBALL page 13 
-
Scoreless tie for campus rivals 
ByMATTYUNG half with 60 yards, including a his big tight end on a curl route. Sports Writer 20-yard draw play. Both teams After the completion, the moved the ball effectively. but Dawgs were severely pressured 
Dillon and Alumni share one wherr the offensPs entered the by Dillon's defensive linemen of the fiercest rivalries on cam­red zone. the defenses buckled and threw throe incomplete pus. On Sunday. the undefeated down. Dillon linebacker Jared passes, forcing thP Dawgs to Dillon Big Heel squared off Elliot had some hard hits, and punt. against the winless Alumni Alumni linebacker Hyan Healy With time running out, both Dawgs, but records were and defensive back Mike Aubrey teams were feeling a bit of end thrown out the window and the werP effective in stopping the zone anxiety. Dillon's Molina year's bragging rights wpre put pass. dropped into the pocket and on tlw line. Alumni's first possession of threw an interception into 
OIT!msively, Dillon looked the third quarter ate up much of Jlealy's waiting hands. Alumni strorig early in the game.. the clock. In fact, Alumni con­now had another shot to score. Hehind its hulking offensive trolled the ball tho entire third The Dillon defense had tiro in linn. Dillon began with three quarter. On tlw first play. its nyes, and cheering fans ronsncutivn running plays. On Dillon's wild man Kevin madn it hard for Alumni players fourth and one. Dillon quarter­O'Connor knocked the helmet to hoar the snap count. Dillon's bark Stnfan Molina knpt the ofT of a Dawg ball carrior. Matt Castanza showed great snaR and drove forward for four This play energized Dillon's anticipation and powered his yards. giving Dillon a first down. large cheering section but did way to the quarterback for a 
In its rwxt four plays, Dillon not stop Alumni's drive. Alumni saek. pirk1~d up two additional first quarterback Alex Gese began On second down, linebacker downs from tailback Greg finding his rHcPivers on the Jared Elliott raced into the Kuzma's consistent six-yard sidelines for three gains of four­back!ield and knocked the ball runs to the outside. When it yards. This passing scheme. out of Gese's hands. The ball began to appear that Dillon coupled with a sprinkling of appeared to be fumbled. and a would toy with tlw Alumni runs. allowed Alumni to tally Dillon player ran it into the end dPfPnse until it scored, tho four first downs on its drive. zone for a would-bo touchdown. Dillon drive quickly ended aftPr The drivP was finally halted Jlowever, to Dillon's dismay, the two incomploto passes. Alumni when the Dillon defense forced play was ruled an incomplete now had its opportunity to do its another fumbln, which this time pass. Alumni threw another damage. llowevPr, the mighty was recovered by Dillon. incomplete pass and was forced Dillon d1~fonse forced a fumble Under the scrutiny of the to punt the ball. on Alumni's first play. Alumni secondary, the talentPd Dillon had a final shot at the Dillon ran 34 offensive plays, materialized. 
Luckily for the Dawgs, the ball group of Dillon receivers was end zone. Two completed pass­and Molina went 6-for-19 pass­None of the Dillon players was rolled eight yards forward, and unable to set off its normal fire­es and a late hit penalty gave ing. Alumni ran 44 offensive pleased with the game's result. an Alumni player recoverod it. works. After throe plays that Dillon excellent field position. plays, and Gese completed six of Greg Kuzma stated that a lack Alumni had no success in the resulted in a mere five yards, The field position, however, 20 passes. of enthusiasm and a failure to air. going 0-for-6 in the first Dillon punted the ball to would not matter as Alumni "I thought we played sporadi­execute led to tying a game half' but W!~rc able to gain two Alumni. cornerback Aubrey intercepted cally well at times," Alumni which he felt Dillon should have first downs by utilizing thn run­Dillon blitzed and sacked Gese a Dillon pass. quarterback Gese commented. won. Dillon finished the season ning ganw. especially the thun­on first down, but the Dawgs Alumni now had its final "We just couldn't put anything undefeated and plans to stay in dnrous Jamal Smith. were bailed out when Gese con­chance for a bomb into the end together." shape over fall break and win 
Yardage came easily in the m~cted with his wide out Healy zone, but the chance was slim Alumni played well at times. the championship. first half. but scoring was for an eight-yard gain on third and the pass was intercepted by especially when it ran the ball, "This is the best thing that's nonPxistnnt. Dillon's Kuzma led down. The Dawgs gained anoth­Dillon. The game ended in an but Dillon linebackers caught on happened to Dillon in years," both toams in rushing at the er first down when Gese found unsatisfying 0-0 tie. and the passing game never said Molina. 


Penalties help Zahm undo Knott 
By KATHLEEN O'BRIEN and the extra point conver­
Spores Writer sion succeeded. 
Knott was called for 

Two touchdowns by Zahm unsportsmanlike conduct to 
Hall's Liam Knott provided begin its possession. After 
Zahm with a 14-8 victory one incomplete pass, quar­
Sunday over the Knott Jugs. tct·back Mario Suarez threw 
Two penalties called on Knott an interception to Deuce 
late in the second half and an Wulf, who returned it inside 
interception by Zahm 's Knott's 10-yard line. 
Deuce Wulf spelled disaster Meyer added two key runs 
for the Jugs. before Liam Knott scored 
The game got under way from the one-yard line. The 
with Zahm's Matt Meyer car­extra point was good, and 
rying the ball three times for Zahm went into half-time 
a first down. On the next with a 14-0 lead. 
play, Meyer was tackled for a In the second half, Knott's 
six-yard loss by Da~ Zach of Joe Mueller took the ball 
Knott. straight up the middle for 
The next two passes by two consecutive first downs, 
quarterback Dave Martin fell breaking loose of several incomplete, but a personal tackles. Brandon Landas had ' foul called on Knott brought two carries to pave the way an automatic first down. for Zach's first down recep­
After a live-yard penalty on tion. 
Zahm and a loss on a run· by Two penalties were called 
Brian Tebbe, Knott int!:'rcept­on Zahm on the possession 
ed the ball. before Suarez went the dis­
Drew Klosterman ran the tance. Suarez then found the 
ball twice, and Tom Wyler hands of Landas during the 
had a one-yard reception for two-point conversion. 
Knott, but it was not enough Meyer carried the ball 
for a first down. twice on Zahm's next posses· 
Zahm took over on offense sion before finally being 
and began with a five-yard brought down by Mueller. 
run by Martin. Tebbe ran for After an offensive penalty, 
a first down. followed by Mike Garko came down with 
another five-yartl gain. Liam a 45-yard reception. . 
Knott gained another first Wyler came up with a key 
down for Zahm. After two stop for the Jugs, intercept­
incomplete passes and a ing the pass from Martin. 
sack, it was fourth down. Two penalties on Knott in 
The Jugs were called for the closing minutes finalized 
pm;s interference on a long Zahm's win. 
throw by Martin, so Zahm "We outplayed them, but automatically gained half the when push comes to shove, ·distance of the pass and a we beat ourselves with first down at the 12-yard penalties," said Suarez, who line. also serves as Knott's coach. 
Liam Knott soon scored "We're going to try to 
with a four yard touchdown, regroup for the playoffs." 
Siegfried wins first vs. O'Neill 
By PAUL DIAMANTOPOULOS There were some bright spots had good field position when Sports Writer in O'Neill's performance despite starting its drives. the score. Freshman running According to senior tight end 
The O'Neill vs. Siegfried inter­back Mike Brown effectively and linebacker David Madden, hall game Sunday provided both moved the ball well at times, Morrissey had a large distance teams the opportunity to and junior linebacker Kevin to cover each time they started achieve their first win of the Lyman made some big tackles in an offensive series. season. the second half. "In the first half, our starting 
Siegfried was 0-1-1 going in to Siegfried's victory revived its field position was inside our 10­the game and quickly got on the hopes for making the playoffs, yard line three times, including board with a 55-yard pass from but only time will tell whether one time on our own one-yard Mike Daigler to Bill Clancy to its 1-1-1 will be good enough to line," said Madden after the make the score 7-0. get them into the post season. game. 
"I feel like we executed very O'Neill 0-3-0, on the other hand, Keough also had trouble mov­well today. That play was the will try to pull everything ing the ball offensively. Its sole spark to everything olse that we together and finish the season scoring opportunity of the first did," commentod Daigler. on a positive note against Fisher half occurred after a blocked 
With a 13-0 halftime deficit, on Wednesday. punt that gave them great field things looked dim for O'Neill, position inside Morrissey's 40­who has only scored one touch­yard line. 
down so far all season. After failing to move the 
There was only one score in chains, Keough attempted a 32­the second half. After being yard field goal to break the stopped by Lyman and other scoreless tie before the end of tacklers on the previous play, the half. lliman took advantage of "Our offense did well in the O'Neill's youth to score another first half. but we weren't able to rushing touchdown on fourth hit all our blocks. There was a and inches to put the game gap in the line and they were away, 19-0. able to block my first attempt," 
Daigler credited thP offensive stated Casey Bouton, Keough's line for the explosion of points. freshman kicker. 
"Wo were struggling bnl'orP in Bouton and the offensive line our prPvious games, but it were able to redeem themselves S!H~med like we had a lot of later in the fourth quarter as Pnnrgy today. The offensive line Bouton hit on a 34 yarder to stepped it up and gave me lots take a 3-0 lead. 
of time in the po(:ket," com­In the second half. Morrissey nwntnd Daigler after the game. executed a brilliant drive to get The response from O'Neill was to Keough's four-yard line with 
not so positive. first and goal. 
"We've had a problmn all sea­Keough 3, Morrissey 0 After several key defensive son with giving up a big play on stands, Morrissey faced a fourth dnfnnse. and it killod us again When Keough faced Morrissey and inches with time running today. We've been fairly consis­Sunday. the whole game camP out in the game. Instead of 
.....
tent on offense, but haven't down to a fourth-down play on going for the tie, the Manor bccm abln to finish our drives," the goal line. Morrissey, elect­decided to go for the win and statPd O'Neill eo-captain Joe ing to play for a win rather than ran a quarterback sneak that Leniski. a tie, failed to convert and lost was stopped just inches short of 
What has also hindered the to Keough, 3-0. the goal. O'Neill team overall this season The two teams battled early Bouton added that the team's is that they don't have a full­on as their respective defenses play will influence its perfor­time coach. Up to this point, the prevented each other from scor­mance in the playoffs. "Anytime captains have b()en making the ing any points. you win with a goal line stand it calls during the game. In addi­One of the main problems that is a real eon!idence booster. It 
tion to this, the team contains Morrissey faced throughout the gives us some excitement going 20 freshmen and no seniors. first half was that they never into our next game," he said. 


----~-----------------~-------~------oa;::;;-liZ::II___""""""-1 
page 14 The Observer· SPORTS Tuesday, October 14, 1997 
• SMC CROSS COUNTRY

-
Belles take sixth place 
By MAHA ZAYED 
Sporrs Writer 
The Saint Mary's cross coun­try team had a successful run this weekend at Benedictine University. Competing against 13 teams. the Belles finished sixth. 
"We beat more teams Friday than we had the rest of the sea­son combined," Saint Mary's head coach James Trautmann said. 
Five out of nine of the Saint Mary's runners improved their times. Carrie Ferkenhoff fin­ished with the best time for the 
Swimming 
continued from pag~ 16 
off the old meet record. They then beat the old mark on the 400-yard individual medley relay with a time of 4:08.82, beating the old record by four seconds, thanks to a strong third leg. 
The third record came in the 400-yard backstroke relay when the women sheared almost three seconds off the old meet record to finish with a time of 
4:02.01. The final record came in the grueling 1,000-yard freestyle relay when the team of Stacy Dougherty and Linda Gallo swam to a 10:20.08 finish, beating the old record by more than seven seconds. 
While the Notre Dame men set no new records, thev had an e,qually impressive meet. The men swam to an impressive fin­ish in the 800-yard freestyle, beating the competition by almost a pool-length for a time of 7:14.55. They finished the 400-yard individual medley with a similarly impressive margin, missing a new record by less than a second with a time of 3:41.53. 
The men's 400-yard fly was undoubtedly the most exciting race of the afternoon. Notre Dame and UIC were neck-and­neck at the end of the third leg. As the crowd screamed. Notre Dame pulled ahead and beat UIC by a nose. 
In the women's races, second­place UIC and third-place Belles. She placed 19th overall and had a 46-sccond, season­best time improvement. Heather Podroza improved her time by five seconds. Maureen Capello and Trisha Baltes had a 42 sec­ond improvement and Catherine Bohan improved by 27 seconds. 
"I wasn't expecting these bests," Trautmann said. "They came from the girls learning to run and competing to win instead of being intimidated. They arc not running like a lirst-year program anymore." 
The next meet will be this weekend at the Indiana Stahl Championship. 
Valparaiso came in with strong teams that just couldn't keep pace with the Irish. In the 800­yard freestyle, the only race in which the Irish women did not post a first-place finish, Valparaiso came in lirst and UIC a dose second. Butler came in fourth. and Marquette was sixth with a score of 78. 
On the men's side, UIC and Wabash came in second and third, coming in close behind the Irish but unable to br,at them. Valparaiso came in fourth, and Butler was a close fifth. The Marquette men fared no better than the women, com­ing in sixth with a score of 46. 
The Irish women then trav­eled to Carbondale for the Southern Illinois University meet Saturday. The freshman class made a strong showing. Freshman Carrie Nixon set a Notre Dame record in the 50­yard freestyle in her first colle­giate race with a time of 23.69. Nixon also won the 100-yard freestyle in 51.98. 
Freshman Tiffany O'Brien led Notre Damn to 1-2-3 finishes in both the 1 ()()-yard and 200-yard backstroke and she won tlw 200-yard individual medley. 
Sophomore all-American Shannon Suddarth won the 100­and 200-yard breaststroh. Gallo posted a win in the 1000­yard freestyln, and Kristen Van Saun won the 500-yard freestyle. 
The Irish return to the pool Oct. 24, when the women com­pete at the C:ollegiatB Classic in Ft. Lauderdale, fla., and thn men host Western Ontario. 
There will be a memorial mass for Stacy Marie Smith, Class of1997 on October 25th in the McGlinn Hall Chapel approximately 1 hour after the end of the B.C. Game. 

Please join us in remembering her life and her lo'Vefor Notre Dame. 



NOTRE DAME BASKETBALL 
BE THERE. 
STUDENT TICKET DISTRIBUTION 
When: October 14,15 (Sam-Spm) Where: Joyce Center (Gate 10) Bring: Student ID 
$44 per ticket (11 home games) Each student may only purchase one ticket and must present their own ID 
Policy: General Admission seating for all games in the student section 

631-7356 for more information 
JltTODA.Y(?; Men'sSoccer 
vs. 
Western Michigan_7:30pm 
Free admission to all students! 

------------------------------~----------------------~---------------------------------------~~--.-------~ 
Tuesday, October I 4, I997 The Observer • TODAY page 15 
Aries: Take the initiative. Take eareful when handling or making tlHl lr.ad. Take thll world for every­dedsions ahout numey. thing you can get today. You are Libra: Today finds you dealing in a state of focusNl nxdtom<mt with a relationship, whetlwr that lots you perform at your host romantic. familial. or profession­while enjoying yourself thorough­al. Hemnmbnr that inaction is still ly. a form of action. Even with a lovnl Taurus: The buyer's remorse playing field. what you do will syndrome could hit you hard in strongly affnct the outcomo. the wake of unwise purchases Scorpio: This is a day to art liJr made today. Guide yourself the common good. Your drive and through the material world with sense of purpose arc a big assn! one eye on intangible qualities. to somennn else. Purg" your sys­Beauty is part of a continuum. not tnm of unwanted toxins. just a singlo point of sale. Sagittarius: Your hnart is young Gemini: Others help you move today, no matter how old your forward today. Friendly advice soul. Th" joy of accomplishment contains kernels of truth and blurs thn linn between work and pearls of wisdom. Arming yourself play. Thcrn is a touch of romancn with more facts than you need is in nverything you do. the best way win a debate. Capricorn: You may experience Cancer:'Speed and urgency arc a erisis of conscience about some not your friends today. Jloightened aspect o.f your work. Money isn't tension puts your capaeity for everything, but it does help pay emotional spewing on a hair trig­the bills. You arc entitled to your ger. Treat employers, clients, emotions even if you can't always landlords, and police onkcrs with act on them. utmost rcsped. Aquarius: You experience a L~>o: A new arrival on the scene moment of darity about ynurs<llf turns out to be the teacher of the and your place in the world. Tho next thing you need to learn. surprise of discovery is a kind of Your perspective on something is frcodom. Sharing ideas with oth­turned inside out. No matter what ers is rcmarkahly easy today. happens, this will seem like a good Pisces: You may have the vision day. to move something forward, hut Virgo: When it comes to keep­you havo trouble finding financial ing your life in order, you may haekers today. An explosion of need to be selfish today. Others temper will not endear you to might sec your defensivo strategy anyonfl. Strong beliefs are the as an aggressive act. Be very roots of self-confidence.  
• OF INTEREST Father E,.,ard Malloy addresses the Faculty Senate Q:n'Wednesday;:g¢L J5, at 7:30 p.m; in the CCE A1.ld1totil1m; Followln,g the president's ·remarks, members of the senate will ask him questions about current .and future developments at Notre Dame. All are welcome. Simon Reich, of the K'llogg Institute and the Uniyersit~ ~fPittsburgh•.. ··· give a seminar entitled "Globalization and Other . . es My Parf)nts Told Me: Def'mitions, Typologies, and Propositions," on Oct. 14, at 12:30 p.m. in room C-103 ofthe Hesburgh Center for International Studies. The Notre Dame Ski Team/Club will be having a meeting tonight at 7:30p.m~ at Montgomery Theater in LaFortune, regarding the January trip to Steamboat, Colorado. Deposits will be accepted and T-shirts dis­tributed at this time. Questions: call251-0023. Sailing Into Summer With an Internship. Since some organizations offer permanent positions to as many as 95 percent of their summer interns, position yourself for your first job :with career-related summer experienc¢, Discover resources and techniques for researching, pursuing and obtaining rewarding sum­mer employment. Any student more than a year from graduation is invited to attend. Presented by Olivia Williams, assistant director in the Office of Career & Placement Services. This workshop will be held today from 6:30p,m, to 8 p.m. inRoom.209 DeBartolo Hall. The Notre Dame Boxing Club is sponsoring the Novice Boxing Tournament this Wednesday, at 4 p.m. The event will be held in the boxing gym in the base­ment of the Joyce Center. Fans can enter, free of charge, at Gate 2.  

SCOTT ADAMS MEN ABOUT CAMPUS 

!feY oTro! You Look LikE )bu JUST 1,./01</3. 
lJ. 
MOTHER GOOSE & GRIMM 
Checkout the 

Ree-~ Homepage www.nd.edu/-recsport 
The homepage can provide you with information about Club Sports, Fitness, lntramurals and RecServices, as well as all athletic facility schedules and policies. 
631-6100 


DAN SULLIVAN 
MIKE PETERS 


DILBERT 
THE OOGBERT MUTUAL FUND 
AS '<OU KNOW, PAST PERFORMANCE IS NO INDICATION OF FUTURE PERFORMANCE. 
-:::-+-7-+:-:+::-l 27 Bryce Canyon locale -'-+-'-'+-'o-+-'-4 28 Anti-apartheid activist Steven 
50 M'< STRATEGY IS TO USE. '<OUR ENTIRE IN\/ESTMENT FOR M'< PE.RSONI\L EWE.NSES AND SEE. WHAT 1-\APPENS. 
58 "Behold!" 60 Writer 
Lindbergh 61 Ever 62 Ballyhooed 
sitcom of 1997 63 Latvian 64 Lack 65 Chill, so to 
speak 
DOWN 
1 Shade of blue 21t's 
breath-taking 3.Cut into cubes 4 Stat for Maddux 5 Dinosaur, e.g. 6 Depth charge, 
in slang 7 Engage, as an entertainer a Belgian songwriter Jacques 9 Not showing emotions 10 Ballet dancer, at times 11 Oft-cited sighting 
12 Copy 13 Peddles 22 Uganda's Am in 23 Forest denizen 24 Competent 
26 Extra-short
haircut 
HA~ TI-\AT 
STRA\E.G'< £\/ER 
WORKED BUORE.? 
GE.EZ 1 IT'S 
LlK.E I'M Tto..U<ING TO A WI\LL HE.R£.. 

Re?~ 
29 Magic wish granters 30 Be in debt 33 Cawfee 34 Letters for Jesus 35 Miller, for one 37 Join in a football heap 38 Kind 39Wacky 41 Italy's --di Como 42 Eternally 43 Picture gallery site? 
YOUR HOROSCOPE 
•MENU 
Notre Dame 
South H~tmburger Soup Chicken Terryaki 
Sandwich Roast Top Sirloin North • Beef Stew with Biscuits Baked Orange Roughy Chicken Cacciatore CROSSWORD 

ACROSS 1 "Red" tree 6 Tues., for 
Tuesday 10 Poland's Walesa 14 24 sheets of 
paper 15 Peeved 16 First name in 
scat 17 Open, as a bottle 18 They produce a 
row on the farm 19 Swear 20 "Act your--!" 21 Elated 24 Opera set in the 
time of the Pharaohs 25 Hershey brand 
26 Elated 31 Handy 32 Large pitcher 33 Triangular sail 36 Fall cleanup 
need 37 Longed 39 Western writer 
Grey 40 P, in Greece 41 "Hi---, Hi-Lo" 
(1953 film song) 42 Quarterback 
Brett 43 Elated 46 Countenance 490pen so Elated 53 33 or 45, e.g. 56 It's taken out at 
the seams 57 Bucket 
44 Threw out, as a runner 45 Word to end a card game 46 Song part 47Hole--­48 Meager 
51 Scandinavian 52 Enjoyable 53 Brook 54 Emotional 
request ss Domestic cat 59 Corrida cry 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
~.:::.+:::+=-+=~ -=-!.._::::...j.!~~ 

~~~~~~~~~.:::..j..~==-i.,;iol,;,~::..:..j..:~!.j.::::..flllll..-! 1-::-f-:::-+.:::.+~::-l 1-=-1-=4~=-11• 
~~Q!Qtill.ll


~,..~I,;,;,,B.=.-1• ~ 
Answers to any three clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420-5656 (75~ per minute). 
Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7 -ACROSS. 


SPORTS 
page 16 
• WoMErls SoccER 
Irish hope to bury Badgers 

By KATHLEEN LOPEZ  of her fnnt. Slw is starting to  physical match with tlw Irish  
Assisranr Sporrs Ediror  !'eel better and that shownd on  mnnrging victorious, :~-1. l.ast  
Saturday. She struck a couple  year. tlw Badgers finishml first  
This season. sophomorr,  of hard balls which she hasn't  in tho Big Ten.  
Jenny Strr-iffer has been look­ing tl; find her stride.  been able to do in tlw past." Streif'fei· captured Big East  !\!though tlH~ Badgors lost five seniot·s to graduation, they  
After an amazing freshman  offensive player of the week  have enwrged this s1mson with  
year in which slw chalked up  with her four-goal perf'ormance  a rnlatively young squad.  
22 assists and 22 goals, she  against the lloyas. With lwr  "Wisconsin is a physical  
has been relatively silent.  performance, she is tied for  team," Petruen IIi said. "They  
Against Georgetown, Streiffer  second place·with four goals in  an~ a dd"ensiv1~ tnam whieh  
may have started her eomr,­ a game.  dons not likn to scorn a lot of'  
back. Prior to the game  Currently the Irish lead tlw  goals."  
against the lloyas. she had  series with the Badgers, 7-1-0.  Last wnek, thn Irish wnre  
scored just six goals.  The two teams met in the sec­ coming off' a nwagnr two-goal  
"Jenny [Streiffer] stru-ggled  ond round of the NCA!\ tourna­ victory ovnr Boston Collngn.  
with injuries earlier in the sea­ ment with Notre Dame advanc­ This past weekend, Notrn  
son," head coach Petrucelli  ing. 5-0. During the regular  Damn bounced back against  
said. "She had injuries to both  season, the two battled in a  Georgetown with a huge nine­ 
goal pnrf'ornutnee.  
"Wo played with morn lmthu­ 
siasm," l'ntrucnlli said about  
thn Cnorgetown ganw. "Wn  
wnrn just exritPd to play.  
i\gainst BC, !'rankly, I think wn  
wnn~ a littln bon~d."  
l'ntrucPlli attributes a lot of'  
thn tnam 's SLH'.cnss to tlw cap­ 
tains' play. Snniors Katn  
Sobrnro and !lolly Manthni  
have rome up with r.onsistnnt  
play throughout tlw nntirn sea­ 
son.  
"Those guys haw bnen grnat,  
and tlwy havn bnPn gn~at f'or  
!'our y11ars," l'ntrucnlli said  
about Sohrnro and Mantlwi.  
"You takn them f'or grantnd  
•  during the snason with tlw pnr­f'ornHtncn of' tlw f'rnshmen and  
The Observer/Brandon Candura  tlw sophomorns."  
After a nine-goal victory, the Irish ho pe to continue their dominance.  sec SOCCER I page 10  


• MEN's Soccr:R 

After loss, Irish hope to rebound against Broncos 
By TOM STUDEBAKER important than the Irish had tlw Big East with Pittsburgh and scmior Danny Moulding, give tlw ynar as wPII. and DAN LUZIETTI hoped coming into the season. St. John's whilP trailing confPr­Broncos' style of play an Tlw Irish attack also nPPds to Sporrs Wrirers Coming oiT Saturday's loss to Pnce lnacl!~r Georgetown by international llavor. Fc•rmutdez g n t out of tlw gatP s quirk Iy. 
Syracuse, the Irish am in nnnd of thrnn points. Notrn Dame looks comes !'rom Leon, Spain, and i\gainst Syracusn. Notre~ lhtnH' 
The Notre Damn men's soccer a win to build momentum as f(Jrward to tlw big games against Moulding from West Sussex, had many scoring opportunitiPs team facrs West1~rn Michigan they approach tlw remaining Big (;eorgl'town and St. John's in thP l~ngland. but were unablP to capitalize•. University tonight. Although thr East season. upcoming week, but it cannot Thc1 ta!Pnts of' Moulding ThP Irish ofTPnse tH'nds a big Broncos arc a non-conference Cut'rently, the Irish arP in a owrlook Wnstern Mir.higan. attraeted tlw n1cruiting eyps of ganw to n1gain tlw ronfidc•ncP ilpponent. this game is more three-way tie for second place in TIH• Broncos !wad to i\lumni tlw I r ish i n I<J CJ 4. II own v e r, that may havP bPPn lost. 
FiPld with a rncord of 4-2-2 and Notn~ ·Damn was unable to sign For this, Notrn Damn looks to hopP to seem~ a big upsc~t ovnr Moulding becausP tlwy could not sc~nior co-captain Byan Tunwr, tlw Irish. WnstPrn Michigan's offer him a scholarship at that tlw fourth leading sron•r in tlw attark is IPd by snnior forwards time. Big l·:ast. Tunwr has night goals Stnw Bibi and ·llanid FPrnandPz Notre~ Danw's ddPnsP will lw on tlw sc•ason, along with four who both havn f(ntr goals on thn c:allnd upon to stop tlwse assists. Last weekend against season. Last sc~ason, these two international players. The Texas Cit ristian, lw postc1d Ilw post1•d sonw big numbers. Hibi cl!d'ense has bmm a shining point Irish's first hat-trick in tlm•c1 lnd t.lw tnam with eight goals for tlw Irish this snason. Up until years. Notre Danw \Viii call on and ninn assists, whi!C' the loss to SyracusP, tlw Irish Turner as tlwy look to tlH' Femandc1z addPd six goals and defense did not allow a goal in re~maining ganws alwad. thrne assists. its f'ivn Big l~ast ganws. Tlwy Tlw g;ime will llP playnd at 
Fnrnandnz, along with fellow have posted seven shutouts this i\lumni Field at 7:30p.m. 

• SWIMMING 

Irish men and women swim to win 
By LAURA PETELLE points, just four points shy of a respoetiYely. Saint Mary's cam!' Sporrs Writer pnrfeet swre. The University of in a distant firth. Illinois at Chicago 11nished sec~ Thf~ Irish women set four 
Tho Irish dominatPd tho eom· ond with 178. and Wabash meet reeords on their way to petition at the Notre Dame camr, in third at 140. The !irst place. The women opened relays last Friday, capturing Notm Damn women pulled in a tho rnoet in the 200-yat'd first place in all but one of the score of 228. bnat.ing socond­freestyle relay with a 1:38.87 raees. plaee UIC and third-place time, shaving almost a second 
Tlw Notre Damo men's tcmm Valparaiso by eomfortable mar­
The Observer/Brandon Candura 

scored an impressive 230 gins of 52 and 94 points,
Although it is a non-confrence game, NO need's a victory over the Broncos . see SWIMMING I page 14 
..... 
vs. Southern Cal, at Saint Cloud State, October I 8, 2:30p.m. 
• ~ a)
~-"'~-October 18, 7 p.m.
f!l 

• SMC Volleyball preview 
%'ill 
at Wisconsin, at Central Collegiate,
<tlj,J 
Today, 4 p.m. 

October 17. 4 p.m. ~ sec page 10
...... 

¥" 
vs. Western Michigan, ~, Soccer vs. Defiance 

ri:J • lnterhall football results
v4v
M . Today, 7:30p.m. 
Today, 3 p.m. 

s, 
see pages I 2-I 3 vs. North Carolina, Volleyball vs. Calvin 
October I 7. 8 p.m. Today. 6:30p.m.
~ 4...--~ 







