.----~--------------------------------~~--~---­

Monday, February 24, 1997 • Vol. XXX No. 97 THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
ND hopes to improve teaching with new Kaneb Center 
By CHRIS SHIPLEY need for a center which can . paper titled "Back to Basics" Gulf Oil endowed the center at Center this fall, and I decided 
News Writer deal with the daily concerns of students and faculty had 
In the world of higher educa­become apparent to adminis­tion. many believe that student trators over the past few involvement has proven itself years. The Academic Council as the number one factor and other campus organiza­affecting student learning. To tions had officially called for ensure that Notre Dame facul­the creation of such a center ty and students can achieve since 1994. this goal, the administration "People have been talking has created the Kaneb Center about and hoping for a center for Teaching and Learning. like this for at least ten years," 
Though the Kaneb Center is said Barbara Walvoord, 

entering only its second Director of the Kaneb Center semester of service to the and professor of English. Notre Dame community, the Five years ago, a research 
CIGNA exec advises new international hires 
By MICHAEL LEWIS countries," Olsen said. News Writer Until 1993, international operations was a self-con­
The Notre Dame Council on tained organization within International Business each country with its own Development could not get director, she said. There was Edward Hanway. president of little synergy, little globalism, CIGNA Healthcare, to speak on and the company wanted to Saturday morning, but they got offer the same services in all the left half of his brain. countries. 
Senior Vice President of "We put in place global prod­Human Resources Carol Olsen, uct managers who had to work who has worked with Hanway with country general man­for over 10 years, filled in and agers," she said. "We actually discussed what large compa­had a three dimensional nies are looking for in new matrix organization," with the hires for international business headquarters, product man­positions. Before she moved to agers, and country general health care, Olsen worked in managers. the international division of the Olsen said the key to success company, which gave her was getting the right people. experience in international Only 70 of the international business. employees are not local 
"He says I'm the left side of employees. his brain," Olsen said of CIGNA established an inter­Hanway. national vision and set of val­
Olsen said that CIGNA's pri­ues as well as a list of critical orities for hiring and develop­competencies each worker ing new international busi­must have, she said. People nesspersons are similar to learn through experience, so those of other companies. She the company needed good said the company's changes in training programs and on-the­recent years have made the job training with teams work­company global, not just inter­ing on the same project. national. New hires have to be aggres­
"We are an insurance com­sive, focused on profit, and pany, we provide financial ser­willing to take risks. They also vices throughout the world, have to satisfy customers and we've been in business for 204 be attuned to cultural differ-years, we're number 42 on the Fortune 500, and we sell to 55 
see OLSEN I page 4 
criticized Notre Dame for its Notre Dame after seeing its with the encouragement of lack of student-faculty rela­success at his alma mater, everybody around here that it tions. Since then, the adminis­Harvard University. would be good for me to just tration has taken steps to fos­Walvoord, a 27 -year veteran listen for a semester. We need ter the relationship between in developing faculty teaching to figure out what this place is teacher and pupil. The Kaneb skills, comes to Notre Dame all about first and how to use Center is the University's after spending five years at the its resources in the most effec­largest undertaking in its hope University of Cincinnati, where tive way," Walvoord said. to improve in-class relations. she coordinated a project to "This spring we have set up 
The Kaneb Center, located in enhance faculty teaching and workshops and are construct­353 DeBartolo Hall, was made student learning. The Hope ing plans about other things to possible by the generous con­College graduate was named d0. " tribution of John A. Kaneb, a the Maryland teacher of the The most recent workshop, member of the Notre Dame year in 1987 during her time held Feb. 14 in the Center for board of trustees since 1980. at Loyola College in Baltimore. The chief executive officer of "I started at the Kaneb 
see KANEB I page 4 

By BILL IRVINE 
News Writer 
Three Notre Dame professors elaborated on the effects of economic globalization in a discussion Saturday afternoon titled "Comparative Nco-liberal Economic Reforms." 
The discussion was part of the 1997 Intercollegiate Consulting Conference spon­sored by the Notre Dame Council on International Business Development. 
Professor Kwan Kim of the economics department addressed two features of glob­alization -the liberalization of trade and the mobility of inter­national capital. Kim attrib­uted these two features to post-cold war ideology and the growth of technology. 
"Computer systems have facilitated the movement of capital and thereby eliminated international boundaries," Kim said. 
Kim related several problems with the nco-liberal economic model. 
"As nco-liberalism leaves everything in the hands of pri­vate sectors, trickle-down income distribution is a very important issue," Kim said. "Trickle-down is not going to happen internationally or even within countries." 
By analyzing the economies of countries around the world, Kim found that only the fittest will survive. 
"If you look at empirical data, globalization effects have been very uneven," Kim stated. "East Asia has been the main beneficiary of globalization, while Eastern Europe has not restructured their economies to meet the problems of free markets." 
Another Professor of Economics, Denis Goulet, fol­lowed Kim by discussing the global social effects of nco-lib­eral economic reforms. 
"The nco-liberal economic model has resulted in lopsided development with a tremen­dous amount of social and eco-


RFK, Jr. calls for environmental awareness 
By GITA PULLAPILLY News Writer 
A complete commitment to science and nature made Abraham Lincoln the greatest United States president, according to Robert Kennedy .Jr.. who spoke to a large audi­ence at Stepan Center Friday night. 
Kennedy, a professor at Pace University, is very active in the National Resource Council and the Riverkeeper program, which aids the Hudson River community in protecting their river from polluters. 
Kennedy said that the Hudson River was blessed with a strong environmental community, which was one of the reasons he spent two years lobbying in the 104th Congress. Kennedy wanted to stop the superman-date that included the Private Property Protection Act, which, according to Kennedy, gives "protection but with a right to pollute. The mandate said that the government could not pass or enforce a law if it diminishes someone's property value." 
"All laws cost property own­ers money," Kennedy said, adding that laws could not exist if people had to be paid to obey the law. 
In addition to fighting to pre­vent this mandate from being passed, Kennedy also fought against the Regulatory Reform Bill, which gives corporations veto power over environmental laws. According to Kennedy, many of the bill's advocates in Congress say that the bill would be a good economic policy. But 
see RFK I page 6 


nomic inequality," Goulet said. "It has produced jobless, voice­less, ruthless, rootless growth." 
Goulet even found tremen­dous human problems in coun­tries such as Brazil, where the economy has improved statisti­cally. 
"This development places a premium on maximum aggre­gate economic growth without a concern for social issues," Goulet said. "We need the kind of development that won't destroy the culture. We can't treat people as moveable com­modities, as interchangeable 
see REFORMS I page 4 
•SJmnMArtv'sEtEcrmNs 

SMc tickets prepare for elections 
By LORI ALLEN Saint Mary's News Editor 
Budding Saint Mary's politi­cians gear up for class officer elections this week as the campus once again finds itself decorated with multi-colored flyers. The elections will be held on Tuesday when Saint Mary's students will decide which individuals will repre­sent them as their class offi­cers for next year. 
In an unusual occurrence, there are three tickets running 
see ELECTIONS I page 6 page 2 The Observer • INSIDE Monday, February 24, 1997 


• INsmE CoLUMN 



Nice guys finish last ... 
There is a serious tool 
problem on this campus. 
This is far bigger than a 
broken hammer or a mis­
placed shovel at the stadi­
um renovation project. 
This is about the unre­
strained barrage of testos­
terone facing the women 
of Notre Dame and Saint 
Derek Betcher 
Mary's. This column is Assistant News Editor 
all about exposing the 
tool and trying to save 
gender relations on this campus. 
First off, here's a sharp definition: The Notre 
Dame tool is any guy who is hell-bent on get­
ting girls. While that is a great goal in modera­
tion, the single-minded pursuit of female 
attention is obnoxious. Every single thing the 
tool says or does is calculated to nab attention. 
Perhaps an identifying example will help: 
Ladies, if a guy comes up to you, wraps his 
arms around you, and then says "Hey, where 
are we going?" watch out, he's a tool! Being 
disgustingly self-confident is another tool char­
acteristic. The true tool has no sense of mod­
eration, no conscience, and absolutely no 
shame. This is not being made up. Mirriam 
Webster explains that a tool is a means to an 
end; that using a tool involves manipulating 
what's at hand to get what one wants. That 
definition is hardly incongruous to what you've 
just read. 
Identifying the tool: More than anything, the 
tool is distinguished by how he acts around 
women (like a fool). The "look at me" attitude 
that best characterizes the tool takes many 
shapes and forms: 
"Look at me, I can really mack." 
"Look at me, I'm sooooo drunk." 
"Look at me, I've got a hot chick." 
"Look at me, I'm so funny, I'll make you 
laugh, baby." 
"Look at me, I'm at Bridget's. I must be cool. 
Really." 
The tool's appearance, as well as where he 
lives, can also be an indicator. This raises the 
distinction between the two sub-categories of 
tools: the NQ and the GQNQ. This distinction is 
largely geographical; an NQ is a north quad 
tool. In fact, ifthere's an allegorical tool shed 
in our world, it's North Quad, which is accen­
tuated by the tool box also known as Planner. 
Descriptively, NQs are scruffy-looking. They 
like to wear wrinkled khakis, hemp necklaces, 
and hoop earings. Many sport raggedy curly 
hair, but above all. there are the sideburns. 
Gratuitous sideburns are like a Craftsman 
emblem for Notre Dame's tools. Admittedly, 
there are probably a handful of guys some­
where with big sideburns who don't fit the tool 
mold, but for the sake of sweeping generaliza­
tions, it's a safe bet that scruffy cheeks signal 
toolage. GQNQs have sideburns also. Rather 
than referring to Golf Quad tools (that is cer­
tainly not an oxymoron), a GQNQ is a well­
dressed tool. There are less-scruffy and more 
restrained than their NQ counterparts, but 
they're still tools too. 
More troublesome than picking out their 
idiosyncrasies are the NQ's and GQNQ's alarm­
ing success rates, i.e. a lot of women seem to 
like sideburns and self-confidence and stuff. 
That just goes to reiterate that if nice guys fm­
ish last. tools are our campus' blue ribbon­
bearers. ("Hey baby, look at my blue ribbon.") 
So tools, listen. You're not God's gift to 
women, and you're hurting the rest of the 
campus' men. Have a little self-control and 
stop the toolage. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
• Tootw's STAFF 
News Graphics John DeBoy Sue 0' Kain Laura Petelle Production 
Sports John DeBoy Betsy Baker Mark DeBoy Viewpoint Michelle Krupa 
Jenny Metzger Nate Wills Accent 
Lab Tech Andrea Jordan 
Michelle Sweet Catherine Deely 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacarion periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
• WORLD AT A GLANCE 
Atlanta authorities contemplate serial bomber 
ATLANTA 

A bomb blast that injured at least five people at a crowded nightclub -the fourth to rock this city in seven months ­has forced authorities to consider the pos­sibility of a serial bomber. 
"Clearly, we believe that we are dealing with a deranged killer, but one who is very clever as well," Atlanta Mayor Bill Campbell said Saturday. 
Friday night's bombing rocked The Otherside Lounge, whose clientele is mostly gay and lesbian. The lounge was crowded with about 150 people when the nail-packed device exploded in a rear patio. 
"We heard it and felt it." said Scott Raimer, who was standing inside a club across the street when the blast occurred. 
Kevorkian anticipated few deaths 
SOUTHFIELD, Mich. 
When he started out to help the sick 
.-----~-.,.,..., end their suffering, assisted suicide advocate Dr. Jack Kevorkian says, he intended to help only a few people. "I wanted to do four or five cases and write an article for a journal," Kevorkian told The Detroit News for a story in Sunday's editions. "I didn't think it was going to blow up like this. To me, it was a medical thing." But he didn't stop, and since he set up his first suicide machine in the back of his van and watched Janet Adkins die in 1990, Kevorkian has acknowledged being present at the deaths of at least 44 other people. "My duty is to the patient. I've always said that," he said. "'When are you going to do the next one?' you ask me. Whenever the patient needs it." His actions have drawn him three criminal trials and three acquittals, as well as large numbers of supporters, as well as opponents who are vocal in their hatred. His fourth trial is scheduled to begin June 10. At the Ionia County courthouse in western Michigan, where hearings were held last week for Kevorkian's next trial, police blocked the street after someone wrote letters threatening him and his lawyer. Sheriff Terry Junge! said the threats against Kevorkian and lawyer Geoffrey Fieger did not appear to be too serious, but similar secu­rity will when the fourth trial begins. Kevorkian is charged with assisting the suicide in August of Loretta Peabody, 54, who suffered from multiple sclerosis. 'They want to burn me at the stake in Ionia," Kevorkian told the News. 
Man atop building shoots tourists 
NEW YORK 
A gunman shot seven tourists on the observation deck of the Empire State Building Sunday, killing one, then shot himself, authorities said. The man opened fire at about 5:15 p.m. on the 86th-floor observation deck of the building, authorities said, then shot him­self. He was in police custody. One person died at the hospital, according to television reports, while another shooting victim was a child, authorities said. The Empire State Building is one of the most famous tourist attractions in New York City, and at 1,250 feet had reigned as the tallest building in the world until the 1970s. It opened May, 1, 1931, and usually is described as 102 stories because of the tower that sits atop its highest point. It's been the site for hundreds of movie scenes ranging from "King Kong" to "Sleepless in Seattle." 
• 
Boston 23 16 Honolulu 81 66 New York 31 22
q,~,~96.;}.Q ~ ~ u 
Showers T-storms Rain Flurries Snow Ice Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy 
Chicago 38 10 Los Angeles 67 49 Philadelphia 33 21 
Via Associated Press GraphtcsNe/ 

Dallas 46 40 Miami 83 69 Phoenix 63 48 
SOUTH BEND WEATHER • NATIONAL WEATHER 
The AccuWeather®forecast for noon, Monday, Feb. 24.
5 Day South Bend Forcast 

AccuWeather® forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 
Lines separate high temperature zones for the day. Os 
···· ...-·· 

Monday 8 Thesday ~ 25 Wednesday~ 
25 Thursday ~ 33.... 
Pressure 
H L @ 5Sl [Til 0 . ~ 8 {) ~ u
Frid3y ~··· 35 HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY Pr CLOUDY CLOUDY } ~v\)"·'"' /\, ) ... . VIa Assocls/Bd Press 
t:..../ ..,, .... 

Atlanta 58 38 Denver 34 11 Minneapolis 37 7 
Baltimore 38 24 Fairbanks 35 15 New Orleans 58 51 

Cl 1997 Accuweather, Inc. 
"I ran out immediately and we heard 
shrapnel landing on the ground in our 
parking lot." 
Memrie Wells-Griswell of Snellville, the 
most seriously wounded with a 3-to 4­
inch nail in her arm, was-in stable condi­
tion Saturday. The other four were treated 
at hospitals. 
Police found a "suspicious" backpack 
with a second bomb shortly after arriving. 
That device, set near a low brick wall in a 
parking lot beside the building, was deto­1'--,...-,"""~~ nated by a remote-controlled robot. 
Aspects of Friday's bombing echoed the ·· July 27, 1996, Centennial Olympic Park attack, which killed one woman and · injured 100 people, and two Jan. 16 bomb­ings at Atlanta Northside Family Planning 
Services. 



Portland clinic sells marijuana 
POHTLAND, Ore. 
An illegal clinic in downtown Portland is dispensing marijuana to sick and dying people, The Sunday Oregonian reported. More than 120 patients have found the Alternative Health Center through word of mouth since it opened six weeks ago, the newspaper said. Patients who suffer from arthritis, multiple sclerosis, AIDS and other chronic diseases say they can buy an eighth of an ounce of marijuana for $20 to $50, depend­ing on their income. Marijuana cookies are sold in $2 packs. A pot-filled brownie goes for $3._ The clinic opened after California and Arizona voters m November approved the medical usc of marijuana. Oregon's law­makers are considering bills to legalize marijuana for medical usc. The federal government still considers the drug illegal, and scientists said further study is needed to assess its potential medical benefits. Patients allowed the newspaper to visit the Portland clinic on condition that the location not be disclosed. They also have other reasons for secrecy. "We are concerned about vandal­ism, about our safety when it comes to people thinking that there are a lot of drugs here and a lot of money. And we are afraid of being accosted outside on the street," said Diane Densmore, once convicted of possess­ing the drug that she said helps her fight chronic back pain, irritable bowel disease, scoliosis, arth~itis a~d depression. Authorities acknowledge that senously ill people smoking marijuana is not as high a priority as fighting violent crime and flagrant drug dealing. "On the other hand, as the DA's office, we're not a policy­making body and those people are breaking the law," said Multnomah County prosecutor Gary Meabe. 


Fire at meeting kills at least 100 
NEW DELIII, India 
Fire swept through a cluster of thatched-roof build­ings in eastern India where scores of worshippers had gathered to seck the blessing of a dead Hindu guru on Sunday, killing more than 100 people, a government official said. Sanjeeb I-lota, home secretary of the eastern coastal state of Orissa, said 110 bodies had been found by late Sunday, and that 165 people had been injured in the fire near the city of Baripada. More bodies were being dug up late Sunday, officials said. The fire tore through the group of temporary struc­tures erected for followers of Swami Nigamananda. The flames sent panicked worshippers. many of them impoverished villagers, running for exits, Press Trust of India reported, quoting witnesses. Many of the vic­tims may have died in the stampede, the news agency said. 

Monday, February 24, 1997 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS page 3 


Chicago gang members gather for panel discussion 
By DEREK BETCHER repeatedly focused. While the Assistant News Editor value of education was affirmed, obstacles of violence, 
Chicago gang members drugs, and insufficient funding addressed social and racial surfaced as culprits in issues ranging from ebonies to Chicago's oft-ineffective school welfare reform to drug abuse system. in a panel discussion on "The schools my kids go to, Saturday. they're reading books I read 
In doing so, they offered sev­when I was in school," Scott eral solutions to the inner-city said, pinpointing the monetary violence and poverty facing problems facing many inner­many of America's cities. city schools. 
The seven men, self­"They get books that say acknowledged gangsters from 196 7 instead of 1997 in them. Chicago's housing projects, We don't need to know what shared their urban perspective happened in 1967. I mean, it's by answering audience ques­cool to know that, but we need tions in the Center for Social to be looking to the year Concerns. 2000." The Observer/Michelle Keefe 
"Even if you do get out of a Drugs are also a major pit­Ga~g members from inner-city Chicago gathered at the Center for 
gang, you're labeled as a fall for those seeking a high Soc1al Concerns Saturday for a panel discussion on poverty and vio­gangster forever. It's tough, school diploma. lence in America's cities. but you have to try to walk "Other than gang-banging, 
away from it," James said, we was always getting high," Second, he urged teachers to Central to the discussion was demand the best from their the audience's desire to
pinpointing the situation fac­James admitted. 
students. understand what factors con­ing each of the panelists, who The role of violence in "It may be hard, but they'll tributed to the lives of violence 
introduced themselves with schools cannot be ignored 
respond," Fogarty said. and vice which the panelistsonly their first names. either, according to the pan­
Welfare reform was another once enjoyed.
One of the most pertinent elists. 
issue the gang members Each gang member acknowl­topics the group addressed "In high school, you might go addressed. Generally, the edged the perils of growing up 
was the current debate over to class, but if you got an 
ebonies. enemy there, people are going group was supportive of in the housing projects. recent federal government ini­"''ve got a step-son and two
The seven gang members, all to be expecting you to prove tiatives to change the welfare daughters. If it's up to me,
of whom were black, were something [instead of learn­
unanimously opposed to rec­ing]," Darrell explained. "So if state. they won't ever join a gang," The panelists emphasized, James said. "[When you're
ognizing ebonies as a distinct you don't start the fight, he however, that reforms and not growing up], you just have to
language. has to start the fight, and that cuts in welfare were what keep your time occupied in a"The idea is bogus. We can really gets in the way of trying 
their communities needed. good way." 
communicate as well as any­to get an education." · "We need to show people, "Basically, you've got to justone in this room," Scott said. In another problem partially 'Don't just have this baby and tell them, 'You know right"I feel like they're degrading tied to insufficient funding, the think you can lie down and from wrong, so choose theus, straight up," James panelists also pointed to facul­
have some more,"' Darrell right path,"' Scott offered. 
agreed. ty under-staffing and indiffer­
said. A lack of positive role-mod­Brother Bill Tomes, the man ence. 
"Scrap it," Ethan told the els can also contribute to anwho brought the group to "The teachers used to tell us audience. "Welfare isn't really adolescence of delinquency,Notre Dame, also agreed that 'We're gonna get paid whether 
helping anyone. You look at according to the panelists. 
blacks can communicate well you learn or not,"' Darrell told $169 a month in food stamps, "Having a father in theat their discretion. the audience. 
a man can't live on that." house would have definitely
"Fourteen years ago [when At an audience-member's 
Consistent job training was made a difference [for mel."
my inner-city work began], I behest, Tomes' co-worker, 
unanimously agreed upon as a Ethan said. 
couldn't understand what they Brother Jim Fogarty, offered 
viable solution to inner city Race was not explicitly
said when they were talking to two points of advice to any 
poverty. offered as a cause behind gang each other. But when they person considering teaching in 
The panelists also addressed violence.
came up to me, they spoke the inner city. 
parenting, the value of role "I don't look at that at all,perfect English," he explained. First, he emphasized that 
models, and other develop­straight up," Darrell empha­
Education emerged as one of teachers should genuinely •
mental issues. sized.
the issues on which panelists care about their students. 
"You can't keep using soci­ety or the white man as a scapegoat," Ethan affirmed. 
Titled "Gang Life in Urban Chicago," this year's panel of gang members was part of what has quietly become a campus tradition. 
Tomes has been bringing young men to Notre Dame from Chicago's housing pro­jects since the mid-1980s. 
Saturday's discussion was a repeat experience for several of the panelists. 
FIND: 
1 day OR 1 weekend OR 1 week OR 4 weeks of Lent 

FOR WHAT? 

Not to Drink 

\ 


EXCHANGE: 
Your Abstinence for your friends' dollars. 

\Sign-ups\


HUH? 
Then, Donate the pledges ($) to Life Treatment Centers. 

WED., Feb.26, THURS., Feb.27, 11 AM to 2 PM, 
Starts today at ND 

4 PM to 8 PM AT LIBRARY CONCOURSE Limited Spots Available 
See your Hall Rep. for Details 

or call 233-5433 ext. 225 

Questions? Call Mike Dunn 634-3917 


~~--·---.......------_.---------...-----....._...---, 
page 4 The Observer· CAMPUS NEWS Monday, February 24, 1997 



Finance Club Chicago Trip 
Thursday and Friday of Spring Break Week -March 13th and 14th 

Signups in Finance Dept. Office 
last day -Friday February 21st 

seven 

• 
Stay at the Chicago Downtown Marriott Thursday and Friday night 

• 
Tentative visits include: 


• 
The Chicago Board of Trade 

• LaSalle National Bank-ABN/AMRO bank 

• 
Andersen Consulting -ND's largest employer tWO • Morgan Stanley -investment bankers 





0 

• Merrill Lynch -financial services 
even 


~Merrill Lynch
• The Chicago Stock Exchange 
Price: $70 Includes hotel and roundtrip ticket on the South Shore 

MORGAN STANLEY 

• Chicago Board of Trade 

Kaneb 
continued from page 1 
Continuing Education, was the second of five planned events that the Kaneb Center will hold for faculty members this spring. 
Thus far, the response to these workshops has been enormous, with over 100 teachers registering for semi­nars which hold 18 to 25 spots. 
The 18 teachers who attend­ed "Teaching Well, Saving Time" filled the meeting with discussions on several topics including motivation of stu­dents, building teacher cover­age, and dealing with large classes. 
Walvoord led round table discussions dealing with topics ranging from teacher respon­sibility in the classroom to ways in which technology can be used efficiently. 
Faculty interaction and stu­dent engagement have for a long time been campus con­cerns that the teachers seemed eager to talk about, Walvoord said. 
"We don't want kids coming out of our class with some sort of memorized superficial thing that kids can regurgitate and then forget," one of the teach­ers said. 
"Start by presenting them with challenges that are rele­vant to them," Mario Borelli, a professor in the mathematics 
These workshops have received positive comments from the teachers who have participated in them. The usefulness and helpfulness of these sessions have impressed faculty and administration alike. 
Spaces for the remainder of the workshops have already been filled. 
The three remaining semi­nars will take place on March 5, May 14, and May 15. 
However, Walvoord and the rest of the members of the Kaneb Center have plans to expand the work they are cur­rently doing. 
In the future, the center will attempt to bring other speak­ers to Notre Dame to lead workshop discussions. Walvoord has also taught seminars dealing with differ­ent topics which she plans on integrating into the Kaneb Center. 
These additional seminars will cover grading, making grading a part of the learnirtg process, and getting good class discussion going, espe­cially in large classes. 
"Notre Dame faculty are very bright and very interest­ing," Walvoord said. "I didn't come here to fix bad teaching. I came here to be a resource to teachers. We're expecting teachers to do a lot here. It's hard to be a faculty member here at Notre Dame. My goal is to help people use their time in the most effective and efficient way to help get that 
Please recycle The Obseruer 


Olsen 
continued from page 1 
ences, Olsen said. 
Things that CIGNA does to help development include man­aging the expectations of new hires, continuous, candid per­formance feedback and coach­ing, and clearly measurable performance measures. The contracts include pay for per­formance, and there are indi­vidual development plans in place. They maintain a collabo­rative, mutually supportive workplace. 
The goal for new hires in their first year of employment is to develop a core skill set 

Reforms 
continued from page 1 
parts in a machine." 
"Even in rich countries like France, Sweden and the United States, the pursuit of the neo-liberal economic that includes presentation skills, building relationships, and communication. Second and third year hires are also evaluated and developed. 
Hires should think dynami­cally and continually look for better solutions and improve­ment. They should also embody a global perspective. 
"When we hire people, we want people who are aware that there's a world out there," Olsen said. 
It's not glamorous to be in international business, she said. It often means spending seven hours on a plane, three hours sitting somewhere, 15 more hours on a plane, going to the hotel to take a shower, and then entertaining clients for 
model is presenting tremen­dous social strain," Goulet added. 
Goulet closed by saying, "Economic growth and human development need to go together, but they don't natu­rally." 
Government Professor Michael Francis finished by 
dinner. 
"What we want is people who understand that the organiza­tion wants the best decision, and sometimes they'll go with yours and sometimes they won't," she said. Employees should show resiliency, they must learn quickly. and they should analyze things thor­oughly. 
Other assets include language ability, a strong academic back­ground, mobility, and leader­ship. Olsen said international business of the future is not only international, but global, and the next generation of workers in the field will have to understand that borders are not as strong as they used to be. 
assessing the current situation in the global economy and the neo-liberal economic model. 
"This is not a world with very many attractive economic options," Francis said. "We need to find ways to make it a more equitable model so that there can be better distribu­tion of growth rates." 


Monday, February 24, 1997 The Observer • NEWS page 5 
Scientists clone adult mammal Deng's death concerns 
By MALCOLM RITTER 
Associated Press Writer 
NEW YORK 

Researchers have cloned an adult mammal for the first time, an astonishing scientific landmark that raises the unset­tling possibility of making copies of people. 
Scientists slipped genes from a 6-year-old ewe into unfertil­ized eggs and used them to try to create pregnancies in other sheep. The result: A lamb named Dolly, born in July, that is a genetic copy of the ewe. 
The feat opens the door to cloning prized farm animals such as cattle, and should make it much easier to add or modify genes in livestock, experts said. 
It's also scientifically stun­ning. Researchers used DNA from the ewe's udder cells, proving that mature mammal cells specialized for something other than reproduction could regenerate an entire animal. 
Scientists had thought that was impossible. 
Experts said the same tech­nique might make it possible to clone humans, but emphasized that it would be unethical to try. 
"There is no clinical reason why you would do this. Why would you make another human being?" said Ian Wilmut, one of the scientists who cloned the sheep. "We think it would be ethically unacceptable and certainly would not want to be involved in that project." 
Carl Feldbaum, president of the Biotechnology Industry Organization, which represents about 700 companies and research centers in the United States and abroad, agreed. 
"I can think of no ethical rea­son to apply this technique to human beings, if in fact it can be applied," he said Sunday. 
"The biotechnology industry exists to use genetic informa­tion to cure disease and improve agriculture. We opposed human cloning when it was a theory. Now that it may be possible, we urge that it be prohibited by law." 
A report of the sheep cloning will be published in Thursday's issue of the journal Nature by Wilmut and colleagues at the Roslin Institute near Edinburgh, Scotland, and oth­ers. 
Before the new work, scien­tists had been able to take tis­sue from adult frogs and create genetically identical tadpoles. But the tadpoles never devel­oped fully into frogs. 
To do the sheep cloning, sci­entists took cells from the ewe's udder tissue and cultivat­ed them in a lab, using a treat­ment that made the cells essen­tially dormant. They also took unfertilized sheep eggs and removed the nucleus, the cells' central control room that con­tains the genes. 
Then they put the udder cells together with the egg cells and used an electric current to make them fuse. The eggs, now equipped with a nucleus, grew into embryos as if they'd been fertilized. The embryos were put into ewes to develop. 
The process was horrendous­ly inefficient. Of 277 fused eggs, only one led to a lamb. 
Wilmut said he expects the efficiency to improve. Someday a dairy farmer, for example, might make a few clones of cows that are especially good 

·at producing milk, resisting disease and reproducing, he said. A farmer wouldn't want entire herds of identical ani­mals, because populations need a diverse genetic makeup, he said. Without that diversity, a lethal disease that struck one cow might wipe out all the clones, too. The advance will also provide a much more efficient way to insert genes into livestock, Wilmut and others said. Inserted genes can be used to make animals secrete valuable drugs in their milk, for exam­ple. Scientists currently insert genes into fertilized eggs in a laboratory, which is a very inefficient way to produce ani­mals that use the genes proper­ly. With the new technique, they start with a virtually unlimited supply of body cells from an adult animal, use a much more effective lab technique to insert genes, identify cells that use the genes as planned, and fuse them to eggs. Wilmut and colleagues pub­lished research last year that suggested this technique could be done by inserting genes in embryo cells. But body cells from an adult are far more plentiful than embryo cells, making the idea more feasible. Caird Rexroad Jr., an animal gene expert for the federal Agricultural Research Service in Beltsville, Md., called the new work historic for showing that whole mammals could be regenerated from mature-body cells other than sperm or egg. 
American businesses 
By SALLY JACOBSEN 
Associated Press Writer 

NEW YORK 
American companies lured to China by Deng Xiaoping's far-reaching economic reforms aren't sure yet what effect his 
death  will  
have  on  
those  mar­ 

ket-opening policies. 

Still, they are deter­mined to remain in the potentially lucrative market of 1.2 billion Chinese. 
Since Deng began turning China toward capitalism in the late 1970s, American compa­nies have rushed to stake a claim despite government restrictions and red tape. 
The 92-year-old leader's death "adds uncertainty at a critical time," said Greg Mastel, China trade expert at the Economic Strategy Institute in Washington. 
The Beijing government has tried to reassure foreign investors. 
"China has made clear that after a brief mourning period life and business will resume as usual," said Robert A. Kapp, president of the U.S.­China Business Council in Washington. 
Still, American businesses will be monitoring events closely for any signs of policy shifts. 
"An early test case" for China after Deng's death will be what happens with Hong Kong, said Brad Whitworth, international spokesman for Hewlett-Packard, a computer maker in Palo Alto, Calif. 

On July 1, Britain hands over Hong Kong, its thriving free­market colony, to China. 
Beijing has promised to keep Hong Kong capitalist and free, although it also has indicated it will scrap recently enacted civil liberties laws and a democratically elected legisla­ture. 
And in the fall, the Chinese Communist Party will hold a major congress to reshuffle some leadership posts. 
Those events increase the uncertainties that are part of doing business with the Middle Kingdom: arbitrary law enforcement, widespread cor­ruption and the possibility of political instability. 
"The smart risk manager would take some cautious steps in China," said Mastel, the author of an upcoming book on China's economy. "If you're making a decision whether to move forward with an investment now or later, later has some appeal." 
"Change is always discon­certing," and Deng's death was "a significant change in the country," said Doug Evans, director of Chrysler's China operations. 
He said there were no indi­cations that Deng's death would have a negative effect on foreign businesses. 
"Our general feeling is we've been there a long time," Evans said. "We expect (China's eco­nomic) policies to move for­ward." 

Other ldeas ... Racquetball and Rocco's • Snite and Siam • Chuck E Cheese and Checkers • Lazer Tag and Lula's • Ice Cream and Ice Skating 
• Basketball and Bruno's • Pool and Papa John • Bowling and Bibler's • 



page 6 The Observer· CAMPUS NEWS Monday, February 24, 1997 
said. "We're looking to intro­there who want to try new said, because in actuality tax­duce new ideas for the senior things for the class, and that payers are now paying much
Elections RFK 
class, including a class memory they are willing to work to more for hidden costs. Many book which would include arti­spend the time to get things continued from page 1 fishermen have lost their jobs,continued from page 1 cles and pictures for the whole accomplished," Desmarteau cleaning up the waters cost mil­class for all four years." said. Kennedy said that this is simply lions a year in taxes, and thefor each class. 
"I think that our ticket offers The Malecki ticket, running not true. health care costs for people poi­
Running for senior class 
the junior class a lot of experi­on the platform, "It's Time for "In 100 percent of these situ­soned by PCPs are also adding to office are the following three ence and we are very enthusi­a Change for the Class of '99," ations, good environmental the taxpayers' expenses,tickets: Lisa Coury for presi­astic to make our senior year a plans, among other things, to policies lead to identically good Kennedy said. 
dent, Ivonne Grantham for vice 
memorable one," added establish an e-mail address to economic policies," Kennedy "Pollution is a theft," Kennedy 
president, Meredith Johnson 
Brown. help keep the juniors updated said. He said if people treat the said. "By polluting, corporations for secretary, and Meg Winkler There are three tickets run­about class events and meet­planet like a business, they will are stealing from the people.
for treasurer; Sarah Looney 
ning for the junior class board: ings. 
generate the illusion of a great You own the rivers. The people 
for president, Michelle Katie Wehby for president, "We want to talk with the 
economy, but in the long run of the state own the Hudson
Abraham for vice president, 
Tysus Jackson for vice presi­administration about Junior their children will have to clean River and the fish. By contami­
Joann Searfoss for secretary, 
up the mess they have created. nating the Hudson River, it is the
dent, Nicole Kraimer for secre­Moms Weekend. in addition to and Chiara Marcheschi for tary, and Becky Deitle for trea­instituting other parent week­and Lori Reibe for treasurer; 
Kennedy does not think same as dumping waste on your surer; Charise Desmarteau for ends as well, and we hope to 
putting control of the environ­property."
president, Katie Brown for vice 
president, Julie Steciuk for vice gain the knowledge of how to ment in state hands will help Kennedy said he believes inpresident, Sarah Corkrean for president, Kate Moot for secre­bring unity to our class," said 
solve the country's environ­the concept of shared wealth
secretary, and Brigid Coleman 
mental problems. when dealing with the environ­tary, and Ann Marie Roche for Malecki.
for treasurer. 
treasurer; and Lynette Malecki The three tickets running for Kennedy said that the Hudson ment.
The Coury ticket, running on 
River is loaded with fish, but Shared values and land allow vice president, Stephanie Janet Horvath for president, 
the platform, "The Power of for president, Tara Thomas for sophomore class board are: that it is illegal to catch them Americans to call the UnitedOne," hopes to stir things up a because General Electric has States their nation, Kennedybit by representing a cross-sec­Villinski for secretary, and Aryn Seminara for vice presi­
Colleen Campbell for treasurer. dent, Sarah Clinger for secre­already polluted their water. said. By not treating the landtion of the class of 1998. 
The Wehby ticket. running on tary, and Erin Vartabedian for 
The federal laws in existence well, Kennedy said, Americans"I think that this is a great the platform, "Experience you treasurer; Nancy Midden for allowed communities to stand up send a message to the rest of the 
election, a clean race that 
can count on," brings just that president, Angie Little for vice for their waters, Kennedy main­world that they are not one
shows the integrity of the 
to their ticket. president, Julie Duba for secre­tained. But if control were to be nation, but are rather just awomen of Saint Mary's College. 
"We have all been very tary, and Michelle Samretta for 
left to the individual state, he multitude of people living onWe are all very excited about involved in Saint Mary's activi­treasurer; and Kimmi Martin said, corporations would come land.
the interest in the election; it 
ties and have seen ourselves for president, Erin Hall for vice to the state demanding certain Kennedy said he agrees withshows the pride in the class of mature as leaders," said president, Bridget Hefferman privileges. If the state would not John Winthrop, who said that'98," said Coury. 
allow it, the corporation could "we are given land by God. Not experience can help make our Gonzalez-Estevez for treasurer. 
The Looney ticket is running Jackson. "We believe that our for secretary, and Belmrie 
simply leave, or threaten to go to to make ourselves rich and
on the platform, "To Lead the 
another state where it could appease our self-interest, but we and plans on making their achieved all of our goals on our on the platform, "Putting Plans escape certain laws but at the were given land to build commu­platform last year, and plan on Into Action," and wants to get same time provide jobs for many nities." 
People, Walk Behind Them," class stronger and better. We The Horvath ticket is running 
senior year memorable if elect­
doing the same for next year if the future sophomore class of that state's citizens, Kennedy Kennedy continued by sayinged. 
"A lot of people move off elected. more involved and informed said. that nature is "the way God "It's important to us that peo­about what the board is plan­"Waste is a convenience for communicates to us with the
campus their senior year, but 
we want to keep our class a ple go out and vote and feel ning. industries," Kennedy said, most clarity and detail. By confident with their choices." "We want to take student adding that he believes that all destroying nature, it is like tear­
close-knit family, especially for 
our senior year," said The Desmarteau ticket is feedback and take what the commercial pollutants are ing the last pages of the Qur'an." running on the platform, "New students want and put that into brought about through subsi­"Our obligation to our children
Abraham. 
Year, New Faces, New Ideas," action," said Horvath. dies. He suggested that General is sustainability," Kennedy said.
The Marcheschi ticket is run­
ning on the platform, and wants to create a monthly "The most important thing is Electric did not dispose of its He added that people do not "Strengthening Roots that Will newsletter to help increase for the class to get out there PCPs properly but instead have the right to impose these communication by using either and vote. I am very familiar dumped them into the Hudson pollutants on their children and
Last a Lifetime." 
e-mail or campus mail. with all of the candidates run­River so it could avoid some of that people should use the things "We are looking to unite the 
class spiritually, intellectually, "We hope to show that there ning and I think that they the cost that proper disposal they have been given to enrich is an awareness and an inter­would all do a great job," said would add to its products. their lives without destroying
academically, and socially for 
our last and final year," Brown est, that there are people out Horvath. This is deceiving, Kennedy the land. 
.;,, i.tJ: WI LCO~B EINGJ@THERE NG ST~~E released one of the best reco rd in a long time." -RAYGUN "One of the Best Records of 1996 " ROLLING STONE 1 OPTION I REQUEST I L.A NEW liMES' PULSE I DETROIT FREE PRESS i LA TIMES I CLEVE. LAND SCENE 1 MR. SHOWBIZ AUSTIN CHRONICLE ILLINOIS ENTERTAINER I NOW WEEKLY, TORONTO I CHICAGO READER CHICAGO TRIBUNE I ORLANDO SENTINEL I SAN FRANCISCO WEEKLY 1 NASHVILLE BANNER Featuring "Outta Sight (Outta Mind)" www.RepriseRec.com AND NOW YOU CAN SEE 'EM LIVE. ~ C 1997 Repr1se Records Stepan Center February 25th Wilco In Concert! -----------------------­CD on sale at The Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore On the Campus Phone 631-6316 Store Hours: M-Sa 9am-5pm  

Monday, February 24, 1997 The Observer • WASHINGTON NEWS page 7 
Clinton, GOP square off in budget amendment war 
By SANDRA SOBIERAJ 
Associated Press Writer 
WASHINGTON 

Squaring off for a showdown on the balanced budget amend­ment, President Clinton warned Saturday against rewriting the Constitution 
...,.......,---.,.,.. when a black­ink budget " o n I y requires Congress' vote and my signature." 
Republicans ~;.....;a.._.....__ accused him Clinton of dema­goguery and scare tactics. 
The volley of charges broad-
Come see i:he••• 

IRISH ACCENT 
comedy imp troupe 
TONIGHT! 

Tueday, February 25 
9:00PM 

LaFortune Ballroom Admission: $1 


cast Saturday morning in the president's weekly radio address and GOP response came as congressional Republicans scrambled after votes for the amendment. It is expected on the Senate floor by early next month. 
"We must balance the bud­get, but a balanced budget amendment could cause more harm than good," Clinton said. "Instead, we should simply act this year and act together." 
The president argued that the $1.69 trillion spending plan he submitted to Congress earlier this month would balance the budget by 2002. "That is the right way to balance the bud­get. And balancing the budget only requires Congress' vote and my signature," the presi­dent said. 

"It does not require us to rewrite our Constitution." 
Democrats, led by Clinton, have labored for two years to paint the GOP-drafted amendment as a threat to Social Security. On Saturday, Clinton resurrected the specter of an amendment forcing judges to halt Social Security checks and the Treasury Department to cut 
HOLY CROSS ASSOCIATES 
Information Meeting 
Monday, February 24, 1997; 7:00p.m. Room 303, Haggar College Center St. Mary's College 
AmeriCorps Education Awards available Application Deadline: March 7, 1997 For more information: Phone: 631-5521 E-mail: ND.HCASSOC.1@ND.EDU Web Site: http://www.nd.edu:80/~hcassoc/ 
Announcing the AT&T "Ultimate Road Trip" sweepstakes. 
Going abroad this school year? AT&T would like t~ help pay your way. 
10 Grand Prize Winners ­Round-Trip Air Transportation from the U.S. to the country where you'll be studying. 
Plus thousands of chances to win high-quality currency converters (hey, you may find it more valuable 
than the air transportation) . 
To enter, call 
1 -Boo 2.57· S"P·II-ext. 300 
Or you can enter on-line at 
http;/jwww.dtt.corn/ltudent_e~brodd 
Do it today. 
No purchase necessary. Void ·...-hele pruhibited. S.veepstakes ends 5/L97. Open to residents of the U.S .. 18 years or older. enrolleci at a U.S. college -.•r lL"liversity dming the '97-'98 school year and traveling internationally for 14 days or more. 3ee your Study Abruad Counselor or http:I/\\IWW.att.com/student~abroad for official rules and details. 
!:> 1997 AT&T • 
bene'fits in order to keep the 
budget in line. "These are results no one wants to see happen, but a balanced budget amendment could surely produce them," Clinton said. 

New Jersey Rep. Bob Franks, responding for the GOP, called threats to Social Security a "scare tactic being used by those who don't want to rein in 
If you see news happening, call The Obseruer 
at 1-5323 

EMPLOYMENT IN AMERICA'S 
NATIONAL PARKS Find out how to begin your JOb search in National Parks, Forests. and Wildlife Preserves. Learn from the #1 Source that uncovers hundreds of employment opportunities in the great outdoors. 
• 
Seasonal & Year-Round 

• 
Excellent Benefits 


federal spending." 
"It's the worst form of dema­
goguery," said Franks. "The 
truth is this vitally important 
program needs the protection 
of a balanced budget require­
ment. It's the only way to make 
sure Social Security stays sol­
vent and can continue to send 
out the monthly checks seniors 
count on." 
He asked listeners to call 
their senators and demand a 
"Yes" vote. 
Still, there are signs that the 
amendment's fate could turn on 
the Social Security question. 
Several Republicans already on 
record with their support have 
privately acknowledged reluc­
tance to vote for the measure 
this year without clear safe­
guards for Social Security. 
While the amendment passed 
the House two years ago, it is 
now stalled in a House commit­
tee. In the Senate, both sides 
count supporters with two votes 
shy of the necessary two-thirds 
majority. 
"People are ·becoming 
increasingly concerned about 
the issue of Social Security," 
said Mark Mellman, a 
Democratic pollster. 
He said that in general, polls 
show 7 5 percent of the public 
favors a balanced budget 
amendment. 
In the same surveys, though, 
he said, "about two-thirds say 
don't do it if it means cutting 
Social Security." 
TEACH El\llLISH in · --··• -EAST-ERN EUROPE­
PRAGUE • BUDAPEST • KRAKOW How would you like to teach basic conversational English in Eastern Europe? Our materials profile many rewarding teaching opportunities with great benefits. For information, call: (206) 971-3680 
Wururnru!Ch&:pubUIIhlngco. En. J<55845 

Do you need 11 job? 
Positions Available at the CENTER FOR THE HOMELESS for those available for work study from NO & Saint Mary's. 3 categories available: 1. Drivers for our child care van 
(must be 2 l with excellent driving record) 
2. Computer Networking Assistance 
3. Business Development Research Assistance 
Please call Matt Towey at the Center fur Homeless at z8z-87oo 
DUQUESNE UNIVERSITY 

Transferable Credits Accelerated Sessions Start Dates May through July 
Register by fax, phone, mail or in person. 
Call 1 f800J 283-3853 
for our complete Summer /997 
rnl 

lnformation/fojJptic<tionPackage . .~ 
DUQUES:\E UNIVERSITY I PmsBURGH, PA 15282 ~DIJOl Visit Duquesne on the Web: www.duq.edu lJN1vE~m 
VIEWPOINT 
page 8 Monday, February 24, 1997 
THE OBSERVER 
NoTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1996-97 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief 
Elizabeth Foran 

Managing Editors Business Manager 
Patricia Carson Matt Casey 
Tom Roland News Editor ........................ Brad PrendergaSI Advertising Manager ............................ EIIen Ryan Viewpoint Editor ................... Ethan Hayward Ad Design Manager ............................... Jed Peters Sports Editor .....................Timothy Sherman Production Manager ...................... Hearher Cocks Accent Editor ........................... Joey Crawford Systems Manager ....................... Michael Brouillet 
Saim Mary's Editor ................. Caroline Blum Controller .......................................... Tyler Weber Photo Editor .......................... Michael Rum a 
The Observer is rhe independent newspaper published by che scudencs ohhe University ofNocre Dame duLac and Saine Mary's College. h does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administra­tion of either institution. The news is reponed as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned edi­torials represent che opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, Jeerers and Inside Columns present the views of rhe authors, and not necessarily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's com­munity and ro all readers. The free expression of varying opinions through leners is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines Editor-in-Chief 631-4542 Business Office 631-5313 Managing EdicorNiewpoim 631-4541 Advertising 631-6900/8840 Sports 631-4543 Systems/Marketing Dept. 631-8839 News/Phoro 631-5323 Office Manager 631-7471 Accent/Saint Mary's 631-4540 Fax 631-6927 Day Editor/Production 631-5303 Viewpoint E-Mail Viewpoint. I @nd.edu General Information 631-7471 Ad E-Mail observer@darwin.cc.nd.edu 

• lETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Cod in Salsa overlooked in can1pus n1usic scene evaluation 
Dear Editor: 
It was 10 minutes DeBartolo time before my Campus Music Appreciation class would come to an end one unusually mild Tuesday in February. My professor, Matthew Loughran, was extolling the virtues of the boys of yesterday. The skillful Rush covers masterfully tackled by QED, the frenzied sexual energy pumped from the Road Apples towards local high school girls, and some­thing about the affable True North twins. 
"The scene was rocking." 
As his lecture came to a close, he mused on the state of music at Notre Dame today wondering why "the talent which used to be on campus is not there anymore." I raised my hand and shout­ed: "Cod in Salsa. Cod in Salsa. Cod in Salsa. Cod in Salsa." 
That is more times than we have ever been mentioned in The Observer (I could have just written it once to beat out Scholastic). I would love to give each publication a hard kick in the trousers in response to what seems to be a noticeable conspiracy against the most innova­tive band to have playep. this campus in my four years here. Cod in Salsa plays on average every two weeks. We've played Dalloway's, Acoustic Cafe, Morrissey Unplugged, Zahm Acoustical Jam, Angst Tostal (our An Tostal show was can­celed due to rain) and the Sophomore Literary Festival. I know Loughran hasn't attended a sin­gle one of these shows as that would have given him grounds for mentioning us in his oh-so­insightful column (although we're used to the snubs by now). 
Loughran is a hypocrite. He has decried the lack of good, cheap entertainment on the campus and yet not made it to any of the shows men­tioned above. I question his so-called dedication to campus music. Anyone with any interest at all in bands with musical integrity should have made it to a Cod in Salsa show by now. Any cam­pus publication interested in pointing out excit­ing phenomena (which here just consists of a band not playing covers) would have done a Cod in Salsa article by now. I find it seriously disturb­ing that bands who copy other people's songs and then play them at half-speed (and half quali­ty) have generated more press in the past year than we have. I don't care how I sound, it's frus­trating and true. 
I don't know how we've been missed. The high­ly inventive signs advertising our shows are always plastered in the usual locations. 
Loughran calls for people with "musical talent and the drive to play." Cod in Salsa calls for indi­viduals (we'll even accept groups) with aural tal­ent and the drive to listen. For the love of Notre Dame, people, give something different a chance. You want some interesting music? Catch some of the people playing the cafe at Barnes and Noble or at Lula's on Saturday nights. Go to Dalloway's on Wednesdays. 
I agree with Loughran that SUB has not done much this past year in the way of promoting campus musicians. Yes, three years ago I remember Loft shows with emiLy, the Hoad Apples or George and the Preeks. Haven't seen anything like that of late. Perhaps this is because this year's loft organizer at SUB has had his own student government political campaign on his mind. But the disorganization and selfish atmos­phere rampant at SUB is chum for a eompletely different shark to chew on. 
As a member of this campus, I take partial blame for the deflated balloon some call our campus entertainment scene. I don't attend many of the shows that do occur, and Cod in Salsa does play more off-campus than on. I've seen that Lewis and Keough have started their own coffee house nights; the best of luck to them. However, what is different from Loughran's utopia of three years ago is that there are many more non-bar venues in town to play at now (Cod in Salsa has never played a venue with age restrictions). It's not that hard to get off campus. 
Anyway, musicians: pick up your instruments and experiment. Students: open your ears and experiment. Loughran: if you can't make it to any of our shows, you'll be able to get the CD in March. 
JIM McNAMEE 
Senior 

Morrissey Manor 
ND music scene about fun not making money
' ·c.:••>i!iC,"i;C;C,>'iC
/~·):::: 
Dea.rEditon 

This letter is in response to Matthew Loighran's inside col­umn on the subject of the relative lack of activity on the Notre Dame music scene. 
While I agree with his assessment of the state of SUB and Acoustic Cafe musical relations at Notre Dame, I LOlllgtlran's idea that we artists po,CkiB~Wltnca!..!U as he says, f'prosti­
ta.lenltS~ T1le been in the · · Dame campus music scene for three ars and neveronce has it been about the money. It's always been about having fun. 
As a member of the Skalcoholiks and a former member of the Road Apples, I've seen much change in the musical scene on campus. As a freshman I can remember such bands as Slope (pronoMc~d "m''), July, Cripe St,.; emiLy and Victoria's Rea1.$Qcret befqr:e the.ir • transforl'llation into Sweep the Leg Johnny. AS a sophomore I saw Krautmiser, Tweak, Reverend Funk, Sabor Latino, QED and decaf. How diverse it was; so-called "alternative," "conservative" campus! The school was much more supportive of bands playing on campus at that time. I recall playing in many a Loft show and in front of Stonehenge during the warm months. The dorms we lived in sponsored showsol} the weekends and the Beaux-Arts' ball in 
"· th¢ar<;hite<)tQte.buUding let us play to• a truly unique .audi· ence. . ··•li . 
Where is this support now? Where are the Mardi Gras cele­brations. that the Loft has had consistently for the last three . years? Where were the Stonehenge shows this fall? I believe . the · •· . on campus three times fall semester, · · · and '' at a women's soccer pep show beenoft'~red to support b¥nds on bands from out of idea. Having acampus at least draw some of ..,,,~-uu,,u-stellar crowds SUB 
ashow. <C. us a chance to 

• DOONESBURY GARRY TRUDEAU • fiUOTE OF THE DAY 
"The most merciful thing in the world, I 
think, is the inability of the human mind to correlate all its contents." 

VIEWPOINT
Monday, February 24, 1997 page 9 
• lETTERS To THE EDITOR 
Women lose money based on gender 
Dear Editor: 
Communications professor Elizabeth Toth, who surveyed the wage difference between men and women in the field of public relations, claims that "during a forty year career, a woman will lose $1 million on gender alone." Indeed, the 
U.S. Census Bureau reports that the average woman earns 71.4 cents for every dollar a man earns, while Hispanic women earn even less -53.4 cents for every dollar. Although the wage gap declined between 1982 and 1990, during Clinton's first term it remained stagnant. 
Inequality between men and women is not new; it has been the predicament of women throughout history. 
Nevertheless, the novelty of our age, some would say, is the potential for change: today's women have more of a chance to overcome the existing inequalities. Perhaps this was the rea­son that 54 percent of voting women gave Clinton their vote during the last elections, as opposed to Dole's unim­pressive 38 percent. President Clinton would deliver the goods, some thought, as they elected him to office. 
As we enter the second term of the Clinton presidency, and while the debate over the new budget is still hot, it would be appropriate to examine whether he has actually been good for women. Is he really making a difference -a differ­ence that would justify the enthusiastic support he received? 
Clearly, Clinton has appointed more women to decision-making positions than any of his predecessors. This is a noteworthy and symbolically important accomplishment, but it has not been translated into policy. Clinton's empha­sis on gender equality in the higher ech­elons has not trickled down to working class women and certainly not to the 
• IMPLICATIONS 
poor. 
Of over 4 million people who earn minimum wage, nearly two out of three workers are women. Clinton's "success" in raising the minimum wage to $5.15 was too little, too late. Holly Sklar, who has researched "poverty lines," claims that "the minimum wage would have had to have been $5.90 for full time workers to have matched the already inadequate official 1995 poverty line of $12,267 for a family of three." But rais­ing the minimum wage to a living wage might lower profit margins and hurt the corporate elite, and these are the people Clinton dares not offend. 
For example, at the same time as he repealed the Aid to Families with Dependent Children, which is part of the 60-year-old social safety net for the poor and accounts for a mere 1.5 percent of the federal budget, Clinton together with Congress allocated 18 percent of the budget to the military -a total of $267 billion, $7 billion more than Pentagon asked for. It is no secret that much of the $267 billion goes directly to private corporations which supply the military with products ranging from socks to rockets. The pretense for cutting welfare as opposed to military appropriations was welfare's "inefficiency." Can some­one honestly claim, without blinking, that the U.S. government has wasted more money on welfare programs than on military expenditure? 
Clinton knew that 90 percent of feder­al welfare participants are single women and their children. Yet, when the moment came, and he had to make the most critical decision in his political career, Clinton tilted towards welfare for the strong and powerful, so betray­ing the women within the abandoned poor. In effect, Clinton made a choice between two kinds of welfare; he chose corporate welfare over people welfare. 
His decision to dismantle welfare pro­grams has far reaching implications for women, particularly since women inequality is experienced most dramati­cally within the lower segment of soci­ety. Take for example domestic violence. Harvard Medical School and the University of Massachusetts Medical Center found that 92 percent of home­less women and 82 percent of welfare recipient women with homes, experi­ence severe physical or sexual assault in their lives. During the welfare debate the National Organization of Women (NOW) consistently pointed out to the President and Congress that "inflexible limitations and requirements for welfare recipients mean that women attempting to escape violent situations will be fur­ther endangered and would suffer due to other program changes, such as loss of health care coverage." In other words, it will be much harder for a woman to leave a violent home in order to begin a new life, or even to receive medical aid after she has been beaten. 
Clinton claims that he supports equali­ty. Considering that the distribution of the federal budget is a reflection of pri­orities, this assertion is a shadow with­out substance. The real thread connect­ing Clinton's policies -the logic which lies at the core of his actions -is his assiduous effort to satisfy corporate interests. It is becoming more and more obvious that in the absence of well orga­nized popular parties, corporate money dominates the U.S. political scene. Tragically, corporate interests often conflict with women's interests. 
NEVE GORDON 
Graduate student 
Government 


No double,standards for judging Deng's legacy 
When Deng Xiaoping, one of the founding revolutionaries of Communist China and the architect of his country's economic modernization, died last week in Beijing, the official reactions were predictably bland, if not simply pre­dictable. 
Bong Miquiabas 
For instance, the newly-appointed U.S. Secretary of State, Madeleine Albright, stated that the Chinese leader would get a "mixed remembrance" due to his vio­lent crackdown on pro-democracy activists in the late 1980s and early 1990s. She added, "Obviously the Tiananmen Square actions were trou­blesome to everybody following human rights." 
As for the Chinese government, its official appraisal of Mr. Deng was bolder than that of the U.S., albeit just as non­descript, concluding with a declaration of "Eternal Glory to Comrade Deng Xiaoping!" The appraisal made no refer­ence to Tiananmen, noting only that Mr. Deng led China through "the domestic and international political disturbances in the late 1980s and early 1990s." 
And from a normally less guarded quarter came a more tepid assessment. Rory Mungoven, director of Amnesty International's Asia-Pacific program, could muster only this: "The Deng era has changed the face of China, but human rights improvements have lagged far behind economic reform." 
Vague statements such as these are to be expected from parties to an ongoing and politically sensitive global discourse. 
It is up to us everyday citizens, then, to make sense of the legacy which Mr. Deng has left to one-fifth of the world's population and to others who care about China's future. One might begin by ask­ing what the Chinese people think. 
We in the West tend instinctively to identify with the Chinese intellectual elite, many of whom were educate_d in the West and often call for democratic liberalization. This segment of the Chinese populace finds it hard to forgive Mr. Deng for his brutality in Tiananmen and for his systematic suppression of individual rights. 
In contrast, many of the peasantry have benefited greatly from Mr. Deng's policies of economic growth and stabili­ty. This segment of the Chinese populace seems grateful to him for bringing the first prolonged period of peace to China in this century. 
Indisputably, Mr. Deng's primary goal was to focus China's energies on eco­nomic development. Even the Chinese military had to serve this goal by accept­ing deep budget cuts through the 1980s. Mr. Deng wanted first to achieve the economic miracle and then attend to political reforms, as other Asian nations have done. Yet is there any reason to believe that his successors will soon court reform? 
Mr. Deng voiced his stance on political reform to President Bush in February 1989, a stance since relied upon by his successors: "If all one billion of us undertake multi-party elections, we will certainly run into a full-scale civil war." Does this sound like a leader who trust­ed his people? 
Close inspection of Mr. Deng's tenure reveals that it was the people who had every reason not to trust their leader. Red Cross International, widely regard­ed as ideologically neutral, estimates that there are at least 1,000 labor camps in Communist China. 
It has further been estimated that as 
many as 6 million people work in these camps performing supposedly rehabili­tative tasks, such as building railways, dams and canals. To be sure, Mr. Deng was concerned about economic develop­ment. 

The way to get ahead in Mr. Deng's China was not through politics but through economics. Look at the Chinese students among us at Notre Dame. Regardless of what they study, they are not eyeing jobs in the Chinese public sector. They go for jobs with a private company, a job where they can gain wealth. And who can blame them? The only type of freedom Mr. Deng's China offered was economic. 
Consider another aspect of Mr. Deng's legacy. In order to organize their faith, millions of Chinese Catholics are forced to pay spiritual allegiance to the Chinese Catholic Church, a sham construct over­seen by the government. No trace of guidance from the Vatican is allowed. 
Finally, Mr. Deng's legacy includes one of the most outrageous lies ever told in modern history. His government main­tained that nobody died in Tiananmen Square in early June of 1989. Merely authorizing the killing of hundreds of his countrymen was apparently not auda­cious enough. 
How did Mr. Deng and his cadre get away with all this? Experts explain that Chinese society values the sense of the collective over the individual. The aver­age citizen prefers to know that his leaders are keeping law and order. And as China's world exports and foreign investments continue to reach new highs, Mr. Deng's stature will surely grow. 
Amidst the reverence, might we remember that, upon our own deaths, our lives are measured by all the actions we took toward our fellow men. I sug­gest that the standards be no different for Mr. Deng. 
Bong Miquiabas is a third year law student at Notre Dame. His column appears every other Monday. 
·~-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­

page 10 Monday, February 24, 1997 
Cube Falls on Shaky Ground 
DANGEROUS GROUND Directed by: Darnell James Roodt Starring: Ice Cube and Elizabeth 
Hurley 
-1.• 
(Out of five shamrocks) 

By RYAN LYNCH 
Accent Movie Critic 
I
n "Cry, the Beloved Country", the sin­gle most important book in twentieth­century South African literature, Alan Paton bemoans, "No second Johannesburg is needed upon the earth. One is enough." Director Darnell James Roodt brings post-Apartheid Johannesburg to the silver screen in his latest work, "Dangerous Ground," but falls shamefully short of presenting a cohesive storyline about the corrosion that continues to infect the South African capital. Roodt invokes the naked beauty and power of the South African landscape, and even intertwines the 
flimsy plot with several novel and painful observations about the plight of South Africa's poor, but the film's hol­low moral message and lust for pointless violence cause the work to break apart and crumble upon itself. 

"Dangerous Ground" opens with a scene from early 1980s South Africa where Vusi, played by Ice Cube, is exiled to America for revolutionary activities aimed at alleviating the oppression of South Africa's black majority. Vusi returns to South Africa after the fall of apartheid to attend his father's funeral, and extols the blessings of American education, wealth, and the democratic process. Such American "ideals" are immediately juxtaposed by the virtues of Vusi' s brother Ernest, whose own edu­cation consists of resisting the oppres­sive white minority with AK-47s and a strict devotion to African tribal rituals. The story weakly gains momentum as Vusi is entreated by his distraught moth­er to venture to Johannesburg and retrieve the youngest son of the family, Stephen, from the throes of an all con­suming crack addiction. Vusi gains the help of Stephen's stripper girlfriend, Karen, who is less than adequately played by Elizabeth Hurley. "Dangerous Ground" concludes with Vusi, his broth­ers, and Karen challenging the strangle­hold which an amoral and almost comi­cal d lord enjoys over a struggling 
and uncertain Johannesburg. 
The weak and hack­neyed storyline of "Dangerous Ground" pro­vides a less than adequate foundation for the film to stand upon. I impatiently wondered why Ice Cube was traipsing the South African countryside in a candy-apple red BMW, and his unreflective and falsely profound narration offered little explanation. Director James Russell Roodt chose the unique and intriguing subject of post-apartheid South Africa; but a plot centered upon an American-raised exile aimlessly searching for his lost brother marginalizes the myriad of social and political problems infecting the land redeemed by the patience and persistence of Nelson Mandela. Characters continually muse and 
bemoan about the "New" South Africa, but Roodt is vainly cursing a phantom which "Dangerous Ground" fails to bring to life. We know little the disparity that Roodt seeks to illuminate with this work. 
Despite "Dangerous Ground's" appar­ent lack of thematic direction, Hoodt does reveal several parasitic forces that bleed hope and vision from post­apartheid South Africa. Bands of outlaw "coke boys" haunt Johannesburg's poor­er districts, as the police spend equal time between taking drugs and eliminat-


The film also provides a wealth of mediocre acting. Ice Cube's portrayal of Vusi is convincing at times, but the actor's feigned apathy causes one to wonder if he would have played a better drug lord than a moral touchstone. Quality acting or not, Ice Cube still entertains; and his gangsta bravado lightens a film plagued by poor dialogue and trite street warfare. Elizabeth Hurley, too, is blessed with mediocrity, as her hardened frame enhances her role as a drug-addicted stripper... but 
her fabricated South 
African accent leaves her sounding more like a cross between Molly Malone and Nel Carter 

than  a  native  of  
Johannesb urg.  
If  one  leaves  the  

desire to discover a cogent storyline and a discernible message somewhere between the popcorn line and his seat, "Dangerous Ground" may still prove rewarding through the scenery alone. Beautifully por­traying Soweto, Sun City, and Johannesburg, the film paints the naked seren­ity of the South African landscape in a light that promises to hold the audience long enough to see the film's predictable conclusion. 

In the end, Photo courtesy of New Line Production "Dangerous Ground" is Elizabeth Hurley stars as Karen, a drug-addicted stripper who a weak and unfulfilling 
aids Vusi in his mission. ing those who sell them. "Dangerous Ground" momentarily teases the audi­ence as Vusi reflects that oppression is as inseparable from Africa as the Nile, and drugs have taken up the role of the oppressor that the white minority has lost. Roodt's "Africa exploiting Africa" motif deserves consideration, but the film's momentary message becomes submerged in a flood of drawn-out gun battles between Vusi and the drug lords. 

"pop" attempt to depict the social ills that infect Johannesburg and cloud the dream of South Africa. Although the film is illuminating at points, one may better spend two hours investigating a work like "Cry, the Beloved Country," which ends with the author begging to learn when the dawn of emancipation will come. Instead, "Dangerous Ground" ends only with Ice Cube's myopic musical revelation that "The World is Mine." 
• RENTAL REVIEW . 
Video Pick of the Week 
THE PROFESSIONAL 
By MARK TORMA Accent Movie Critic 
n 1994, two movies appeared on American movie 
screens at around the same time. Almost tragically 
was this the case, for the two diverged in quality greatly, yet had such similar names and subjects that massive confusion was inevitable. I will now explain why one of those movies, 'The Professional," is a must­see, right now, on your TV screen... But first, I must draw a distinction between "The Professional" and "The Specialist." 
Please remember, this movie that I now recommend is NOT "The Specialist." That movie was the kind of thing that movie execs should scrape off the bottom of their shoes and not pawn it off as entertainment. That movie was a shameless joining of two stars fully capa­ble of worthless performances (Sharon Stone and Sylvester Stallone), and letting their ineptitudes flour­ish. That movie had lots of bang, lots of boom, lots of skin, lots of sex, and absolutely no imagination. 
That movie was pure dreck. 
This movie, "The Professional," might be the polar opposite of that movie, at least as far as action movies go. It is an action movie that should be understood, but an action movie unlike any other you've ever seen. Maybe that's because it is a foreign film; it was direct­ed by the Frenchman Luc Besson, starring his favorite performer Jean Reno, and produced by a foreign pro­duction company. However, before you now mentally walk away from this movie, you should know this, you complacent, spoiled, probably American reader: this movie is all in ENGLISH. Yep, no sub-titles, no dub­bing; the lips meet the words at every turn, just like you like it. 
Now that you're back with us, I can implore you to see this movie with anyone you could possibly think of (within reason of its rating, of course). See it with your uncle, see it with your significant other, see it with your rector/rectress -it might be the only action movie that will make you seem like the "sensitive type," Skeptical? "The Professional" tells the story of a lonely assassin (the only other regrettable similarity to "The Specialist") who takes in a young girl when her family is slaughtered in a drug-related recrimination. I tell you, what the movie does with this situation will not only blow your mind, but warm your heart. 
At a glance, the story goes along familiar lines: they get along great, she gets a crush on him, and when the evil ones find them, he summons up the last ounce of strength to save her. However, discard all precon­ceived notions of how this will unfold, for there is not a shred of condescension toward the girl, nor any really dashing derring-do by our hero. The girl (Natalie Portman) is smart, and the assassin (Jean Heno) knows only his skills, but both have a lot to learn, and they do. Poignant is too mild a term for their relationship -it is positively thrilling to see them happy in their meager apartment, and heartrending to see their bond threat­ened by the bloodthirsty baddies. 
Did I mention that this was an .action movie? I thought so. All doubts about that should cease after the scenes where Reno carries out his assignments, or when the corrupt DEA officers "clean up" Portman's family. The most corrupt of them all is Gary Oldman, the leader of the drug ring whose own drug habit leads him to commit brutal acts with demonic ease. There's no question, he will scare you. Compared to his scenes, the other action sequences look like Swan Lake, but compared to them, "True Lies" looked like Sesame Street. 
Along with Oldman's brilliance and Reno's star-turn (you might know him as the guy who pulled Tom Cruise in and out of the vault in "Mission: Impossible," but he's much better here), this movie is notable as the movie world's first glimpse of its newest phenom, Natalie Portman. She has now done five movies in the last year, and has the teenage girl market cornered along with Claire Danes, but she deserves to be truly remembered for this role. She was only about twelve when the film was made, but she looks like Susan Sarandon; she's really that good. Her banter with Reno is so fluid and genuine, and the way she walks, some­times knowingly, sometimes guiltily, and never totally naively shows that she reads a mature understanding into the character. Here's another guarantee: you will never forget the moment when she is at his door, cry­ing for him to let her in. 
Watching this movie has all sorts of advantages: the guy next door will love it, and so will the girl. Your Aunt Grace could stomach it (I bet she saw ·:The Silence of the Lambs"), and so could your teenage brother. When asked, you can say you're watching a foreign film, or an action movie, or a relationship movie with a thrilling edge. Take your pick; if you ask me, you'll be watching a feast for the eyes, the mind, and the soul, and three for the price of one ain't bad. 
Monday, February 24, 1997 
Baclc witlt a Blast! 
THE EMPIRE STRIKES BACK Directed by: Irvin Kershner Starring: Mark Hamill, Carrie 
Fisher, and Harrison Ford 

By DAVID WEATHINGTON 
Accent Movie Critic 
T
he second movie in the Star Wars trilogy, "The Empire Strikes Back," proves that good acting, great screenwriting, and non­stop action are not mutually exclusive. This newly re-released movie contin­ues to chronicle the adventures of Luke Skywalker, Princess Lei a, and Han Solo as they attempt to destroy the Empire and make the galaxy safe for democracy. The film climaxes as Luke meets Darth Vader face to face for the first time. 
Many actors in this film never had another significant role after the Star Wars trilogy, but the performances they give in this movie leave little indi­cation as to why. Mark Hamill stars and never leaves the viewer with any doubts about his selection for the role. Finally, James Earl Jones supplies the voice of Darth Vader. The usually calm voice is menacing and aggres­sive, and it becomes the hallmark of Darth Vader's character. 
Everyone knows that this is one of the greatest science fiction movies of all time, but many disagree about where it ranks among the three films in the trilogy. The Empire Strikes Back is the best of these three movies. It doesn't present the viewer with a nice, clean ending where the Empire is destroyed and the Rebellion reigns supreme. Instead it presents the view­er with a tense struggle between good and evil. All of the major characters are injured except for Princess Leia, and Luke Skywalker learns the truth about his relationship with Darth Vader. 
Unlike Star Wars and Return of the Jedi, The Empire Strikes Back is a story about perservering through defeat, and living to fight another day. The Rebellion does not succeed, it sim­ply endures. 
Yoda is the final reason why this movie is so gripping. He confronts Luke Skywalker with a sense of humor 
Photo courtesy Twentieth Century Fox 
Luke Skywalker (Mark Hamill) struggles to learn the ways of the Force in the second remastered movie of George Lucas' triumphant trilogy, "The Empire Strikes Back." 
as the budding Jedi Knight who must save his friends by confronting the evil Lord Vader. Hamill's whiny voice and diminutive stature make him the per­fect choice to play a character whose power comes from self-control and introspection rather than brute force or intimidation. Carrie Fisher contin­ues to be slightly annoying in her role as Princess Leia, but she conveys a positive sense of sincerity and loyalty to the rebellion that makes her stands out as a good leader. Harrison Ford, as Han Solo, is sarcastic, charming, and serenity at the same time. The lit­tle green sage provides his own philosophies of life and goodness to the viewer. Surprisingly, it appears 
-...

that the screenwriters put some thought into Yoda's philosophy because many of his ideas are intelli­gent and stimulate creative thinking. 
The special effects in The Empire Strikes Back are incredible. The bat­tle scenes are well choreographed, and the Cloud City is amazing. All in all The Empire Strikes Back is one of the best films of 1980... and 1997. 

Home and Theater Blockbusters 
1
. The Empire Strikes Back 

2. 
Star Wars 

3. 
Absolute Power 

4. 
Dante's Peak 

5. 
Vegas Vacation 

6. 
Fools Rush In 

7. 
That Darn Cat 

8. 
Rosewood 

9. 
Jerry Maguire 

10. 
The English Patient 


Source: Associated Press 
1
. Phenomenon 

2. 
A Time to Kill 

3. 
The Rock 

4. 
Kingpin 


5. 
Escape from L.A. .. 

6. 
Fled 


7. 
Chain Reaction 

8. 
Island of Dr. Moreau 

9. 
Tin Cup 

10. 
Fargo 



Source: Blockbuster, South Bend 


IMPROV YOUR HEALTH!!  FEMALE AND MALE CAMP  Wanted: DRIVER to take student  FAX IT FAST!!!  
NOTICES  IMPROV YOUR LOVE LIFE!! IMPROV YOUR SPELLING!!  COUNSELORS needed for out­standing Maine camps! CAMP  from Clay H.S. to SMC. M, Tu, Th, 2:45pm. $18/wk  Sending & Receiving at  "The Marketing Life of Curiosity" Presentation by Thomas Quin~.  
IRISH ACCENT (that scrambled  VEGA for girls and CAMP CEDAR  233-4581 or 631-7531  THE COPY SHOP  CEO of J.W.Messner on Tuesday  
SPRING BREAK  comedy improv troupe) has an  for boys. Each located on magnifi­ LaFortune Student Center  Feb. 25 at 4:00 in 121 COBA.  
PANAMA CITY BEACH FLORIDA SANDPIPER-BEACON BEACH  ALL-IMPROV SHOW Tuesday, February 25  cent lakefront setting with excep­tional facilities. Over 100 positions  FOR RENT  Our Fax# (219) 631-FAX1 FAX IT FAST!!!  Open to all! Sponsored by the Marketing Club  
RESORT 3 POOLS, 1 INDOOR  9 PM in LaFun Ballroom  at each camp for heads and assis­ 
POOL, HUGE BEACHSIDE HOT  Admission $1.00  tants in tennis, basketball, baseball,  Homes for Rent for 97-98  ATTN SENIORS!!  
TUB, SUITES UP TO 10 PEOPLE  CHECK IT OUT!!  volleyball, soccer, lacrosse, golf,  ADT Security 232-2595  SBD  
. .. ­ TIKI BEACH BAR, HOME OF THE BIGGEST PARTY . FREE INFO 1-800-488-8828  ILOST & FOUND I  field hockey, roller hockey, swim­ming, sailing, canoeing, scuba, water-skiing, archery, weight train­ AFFORDABLE 1 ,2, & 3 BDRM HOMES. AVAIL. NOW. NEAR  TICKETS ARE NOW ON SALE @ LAFORTUNE INFO DESK FOR THE BLACKHAWKS V. STARS  SBD  
WWW.SANDPIPERBEACON.COM  ing, athletic trainer, journalism, pho­ CAMPUS. GILLIS PROPERTIES  HOCKEY GAME.  Yeah, Leia might end up with Luke.  
If anyone found a blue Notre Dame  tography, ceramics, crafts, drama,  272-6551  FEB. 25TH TICKETS ARE $20  
THE COPY SHOP  book bag outside of 305 DeBartolo  dance  GAME STARTS@ 7:30PM  Grand Opening:  
LaFortune Student Center  Hall between 12:30 and 1:30  Uazz, tap, ballet), nature study,  BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY  SPOTS ARE LIMITED!!  CAFE' POCHE'  
Phone 631-COPY  Monday afternoon, please contact  backpacking, horseback riding,  219-291-7153 FAX 1185  Located in the Architecture School  
Mon.: 7:30 a.m. -Midnight  Joe at x2088.  ropes course, trip leaders, mountain  ADOPTION:  Feb. 26, 1997  
Tues.: 7:30a.m.-Midnight  biking, riflery, general (w/youngest  NICE FURNISHED HOMES FOR  Corporate Executive & homemaker  Free Coffee Mugs. Register to win  
Wed.: 7:30a.m. -Midnight  Lost: Navy blue backpack in SDH at  campers). Also looking for secre­ NEXT SCHOOL YEAR NORTH OF  can offer newborn a wonderful life  Electronic Basketball game.  
Thur.: 7:30a.m. -Midnight  dinner on Wed. Important CPA  taries, maintenance, kitchen. Camp  ND 2773097  filled with warmth, security, endless  
Fri.: 7:30 a.m. -7:00 p.m.  books are inside! Please return if  dates approx. June 21-Aug 21. Top  love, education & a bright future.  YOU OWE IT TO YOURSELF!  
Sat.: Noon -6:00 p.m. Sun.: Noon-Midnight  picked up by mistake. No questions asked.  salary, room, board, laundry, cloth­ing, and travel allowance. MEN­ FOR SALE  Confidential. Ma.rk & Candace 1-888-811-1141  Laugh a little. IRISH ACCENT has an  
Open Early, Late, & Weekends  Call4-3397.  CAMP CEDAR for boys, 1758  ALL-IMPROV SHOW  
Beacon Street, Brookling, MA  Bed -Queensize orthopedic premi­ Adoption: A very loving, financially  Tuesday, February 25  
SPRING BREAK!  02146, ccedarme@ aol.com, 1-888­ um mattress set. Never used still in  secure, well educated young cou­ (TOMORROW NIGHT!)  
MARCO ISLAND, FLORIDA AND  LOST. One black leather  844-8080. WOMEN-CAMP VEGA,  package -cost 550 sacrifice 175.  ple, long to adopt your newborn.  at 9 PM in LaFun Ballroom.  
S. PADRE, TX BEACHFRONT  ladies glove with white fur lining.  PO Box 1771, Duxbury, MA 02332,  (219) 674-2352  Close and caring extended family.  IT ONLY COSTS A DOLLAR!  
CONDOS SLEEPS 4 TO 8. FROM  Oh, how I miss it! Beth x4951  jobs@campvega.com, http://cam­ We offer a special life for your child.  IRISH ACCENT. DOLPHIN­ 
$695 WEEK. PRICES DISCOUNT­ pvega.com, 1-800-838-VEGA. WE  '''Pioneer Stereo For Sale'"  Expenses paid. Please call Sherri &  SAFE...SINCE JULY!  
ED BY OWNER. 941-642-5483  WANTED  WILL BE ON THE NOTRE DAME CAMPUS, Monday, March 3 in the  6-Disc CD Player and Stereo Reciever with Remote  Joe 1-800-378-6680.  Lauren & Kris:  
LaFortune Student Center. Dooley  $350 o.b.o.  SEPTEMBER 67  Thank you for a giggle-full night....  
MICHIANA PAINTBALL IS NOW  SUMMER JOBS  Room from 10AM to 4PM. NO  call Vince@ 257-2932  and  Never again!  
OPEN FOR INDOOR PAINTBALL  ALL LAND/WATER SPORTS  APPOINTMENT NECESSARY.  WILCO!!!!!!  --Red :D  
GAMES AT SCOTTSDALE MALL.  PRESTIGE CHI DR EN'S CAMPS  Beautiful4 bedroom, 3 bath, 2  together at Stepan  
CALL 291-2540 FOR INFO.  ADIRONDACK MOUNTAINS  office home on 3/4 acre, wooded  Feb.25 at 8 pm  isn't it amazing how differently  
NEAR LAKE PLACID  CRUISE & LAND-TOUR EMPL Y­ and private with pool, 10 minutes  only $10 with an ID.  some ra's and their dates do rounds  
'''ACT NOW! LAST CHANCE TO CALL LEISURE TOURS AND GET FREE INFO FOR SPRING BREAK  1-800-786-8373 ALASKA EMPLOYMENT -Earn up  MENT-Industry offers Travel (Hawaii, Mexico, Caribbean), imcomparable benefits, & good pay:  from campus. Many extras. $129,500. 271-7640 or 631-7459.  COME ROCK and GROOVE!!! Get your tix at the LaFun info desk before they're gone!  than others? some actually do them, some just pretend.  
PACKAGES TO SOUTH PADRE, CANCUN, JAMAICA AND FLORI­ to $3,000-$6,000+/mo. in fisheries, parks, resorts. Airfare!  Find out how to start the application process now! Cruise Employment  PERSONAL  Compliments of SUB  I can I can  
DA. 1-800-838-8203  Food/Lodging! Get all the options.  Services provides the answers. Call  Applications for Marketing Club  
RAPE SUPPORT GROUP  Call (919)918-7767, ext.A154.  800-276-4948 Ext. C55846 (We are a research & publishing company)  Try not. Do. Or do not. There is no trying.  Officers for 97-98 are available out­side of L059 COBA.  Christoforetti is my hero.  
-Offered on-campus for ND and SMC students  EASTERN EUROPE/ASIAN JOBS  JAZZERCISE  Due ASAP-2/24/97! Questions? Call 1-9330  So many boys, so little time ....  
-Completely Confidential  Live in Prague, Budapest, Tokyo,  Very close to campus  R.I.P. Isabella  
For more information, call  etc. teaching simple conversational  Going to or through southern Illinois  277-0111  
Sex Offense Services at 283-1308 RAPE SUPPORT GROUP  English. No languages/teaching exp. required. (919)918-7767, Ext. W154.  for spring break? I need a ride and will help pay for gas and tolls. Liz ­273-3943  Electrolysis by Rebecca Blend Method 674-6933  Nerea, Is it going to be James Dean or that other guy? Inquiring minds want to know!  I like my friend Fig because she shares her beer with me.  

page 12 
M. Hoops 
continued from page 20 
cut the deficit to less than six. As been typical of his play this season, Gotsch collected a pair of fouls early and appeared like he would spend the much of the game on the bench due to foul trouble. However, he battled back, becoming the main rea­son the Irish were able to stay in the game and pull off the late-game rally. Gotsch fin­ished the game with 18 points and 10 rebounds. 
"I think Matt was tired of being on the bench at the end of the game," MacLeod com­mented. "He made the deter­mination that he was not going to be taken out because of fouls." 
Providence head coach Pete Gillen also gave Gotsch a lot of credit in the Irish victory. 
"We were very concerned with him going into the game," Gillen said of the 6-foot-11 senior. "He's got a lot of talent and when he gets his confi­dence, he's hard to deal with." 
One of the most significant statistics of the victory for the Irish is the five players they had in double figures. Making that statistic even sweeter is the fact that three of those players were seniors. It was the second to last home game for the Gotsch, White, and Peter Miller, and they rose to the occasion with 

18. 13. and 12 points respec­tively. 
As those three look to go out in style, another player, fresh­man David Lalazarian is look­ing to establish himself as a player, and Saturday's perfor­mance will definitely help that. 
Lalazarian was second to Gotsch in scoring for the Irish with 15, but most important, scored the first basket in the overtime, a three pointer that gave the Irish a lead they would not lose. 
Lalazarian led the Irish in overtime with seven, including a screaming slam on an assist from Pete Miller. 
Lalazarian was called off the bench to play for the injured Gary Bell and did his job flaw­lessly. 
"It was pretty tough, I've never really been in that type of situation," Lalazarian said of the high-intensity, pressure play of the game. "Coach said keep your head up and you'll get the opportunity." 
"Luckily, I got the opportunity tonight and it paid off." 
Another major factor in the Irish victory was the fact that they held Providence's leading scorers, Austin Croshere and Derek Brown, to four for 26 from the field. 
Shammgod was a bright spot in Providence's play with a game-leading 21 points, but blew his greatest opportunity of 
The Observer • SPORTS 
the game, the chance to foul White before he sank the game­tying three pointer. 
"Sham carried us for a while, but when Derek and Austin, who normally score most of our points, go four for 26, that wasn't a good sign," Gillen said. 
"We had the chance to win. We were up by three and I told Sham to foul, but he said he couldn't get to White, and none of the others guys did either." 
Shammgod also felt the frus­tration. 
"We felt we had the game won," he said. "They deserved to win. They worked hard throughout the game." 
The win provides a major boost for the Irish, both for this season and for the program. It was the first time a Notre Dame team had beat Providence since 1985. In the here and now, though, it bumps the Irish record to 7-9 in the Big East (13-11 overall), giving them the chance to finish up .500 in the conference. With two games left against Miami and Boston College, that is exactly what the Irish hope to do. 
Of course, many are speculat­ing about their chance for an NIT bid, but the Irish are taking it one game at a time. 
"They're definitely an NIT team; if they end up with a win­ning record or a .500 record they should be in." Gillen said of the Irish. "They're a good team that deserves to be in post season play." looking past our next game. 
However, MacLeod hesitates Early in the season we talked to say anything of the season about the post-season -there beyond their next game. isn't a team in basketball that 
"No doubt it was the biggest doesn't want to be playing in win of the season for us," March-but we're just taking MacLeod said. "But we're not it one day at a time." 
Baseball drops three at Long Beach Classic Long Beach State 10 Notre Dame 8 usc 14 Notre Dame 4 Mississippi 11 Notre Dame 5 
See tomorrow's Observerfor coverage. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
Monday, February 24, 1997 The Observer· PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 13 
--------=-==----=--=.:::..::..::.~----'-------'--=-=-=-----------'-------------=----=---­

USTICE ALAN C. PAGE 
in continuation ofthe celebration ofblack history month 

MINNESOTA SUPREME COURT JUSTICE Monday, February 24th at 8:00PM 101 DeBartolo 
(free adntission) 
Brought to you by NAACP and the Office ofStudent Affairs 
inside and getting to the offensive glass was key." 
After the dynamic duo of Gaither and Morgan combined to score just 13 in the first they responded like they have done all year as Gaither was too much inside and Morgan found her stroke. 
The tandem combined for 29 points in their last half at the Joyce Center as they pushed the lead to 19 with seven minutes left. Gaither fin­ished with 18 while Morgan bounced back from her first half shooting woes to finish with 24. 
"I think I was getting a lot of good looks and they just weren't going down," Morgan said. "I guess I just have shooter's mentality and unless coach will put the red light on, I'll keep on shoot­ing." 
All of the Irish who dressed scored as senior Rosanne Bohman added eight points and eight rebounds to the cause while point guard Jeannine Augustin finished with four points, three assists and three steals. 
Jordan had three points and Sheila McMillen, Julie Henderson, and Kristina Ervin all had a bucket. 
After the game, Morgan commented on the best year in the program's history. "As seniors we've just built on it every year and I think it was just on more thing to add to it. I think we've had a really good season." 
Head coach Muffet McGraw will definitely miss this class that includes the top two all time lead­ing scorers (Morgan and Gaither). 
"I don't want to think about it," McGraw responded when asked about a starting lineup with out this group of seniors. "It's going to be the end on an era." 
The era is not quite over yet as the Irish will travel to West Virginia tomorrow before post­season play begins with the Big East tournament starting March 1 in Connecticut. 

Bengals 
continued from page 20 
has been named by many of his teammates as the newcomer to watch this year. 
In the 155-pound class, Damon Affinito did not disprove his worthiness as the class's top seed as he put sophomore Josh Kirley on the floor. Although Kirley showed his resilience by getting back up and asking for more, Affinito's speed over­whelmed the dazed Kirley and the match ended in a split deci­sion. 
In the final match of the 155­pound weight class, fighter Matt Berilla landed a stunning jab to the face of Pat Gorman. In one of the most aggressive fights, Berilla got the win by the refer­ee's decision to stop the match. 
Top seed Chris Sikora is look­ing defend his title in the 157­pound class as he defeated Kevin Murphy in a unanimous decision. Sikora used his height as an advantage and showed his endurance, eventually wearing Murphy down. 
When asked if he feels any added pressure about living up to last year's performance, Sikora answered, "It's a little harder now because I don't have the underdog status I had last year, but what's important for me is to stay focussed and not look ahead." 
Sikora's next match will be against Brendan McGuire who defeated Stefan Molina on a very close split decision. McGuire controlled the first two rounds, and was able to evade a third round burst of energy from Molina to get the win. 
Although Sikora doesn't want to look ahead, he can't help but notice John Kmetz looming on the horizon. Kmetz, who fought 
Monday, February 25, 1997 
Sikora in last year's finals, defeated freshman Mike LaDuke yesterday with a unanimous decision. Kmetz came out strong but was surprised by LaDuke, who in his first year shows a lot of promise for the future. 
"Mike LaDuke is really good," Kmetz said, crediting his oppo­nent. "He's the first guy in four years who has made me change my style of fighting." 
Kmetz controlled the match, but was forced to go out of his normal crisp clean overpower­ing approach, bordering on some oCthe crazy, kamikaze styles seen by other boxers yes­terday. 
"Normally I fight real con­trolled, but he forced me out a little bit," Kmetz added. "I wasn't real happy with that, but I was happy to get the win." 
In the 160-pound class, top seed Rich Molloy received a bye, making junior Chip Farrell the featured fighter of the class yes­terday. 
Farell's fundamental fighting was too much for John Berry to handle sending the two-time finalist into the semi-finals with a unanimous decision. 
Farell will meet Tom Roderick in the semis, a senior who had an impressive hard-fought victo­ry over Kevin Gaffney. Gaffney stayed in the fight, however, but could deflect Roderick's quick jab, eventually handing the split decision to Roderick. 
"It was a tough fight," Roderick commented. "Kevin kept coming after me and com­ing after me. I've never seen so much energy." 
Rounding out the the highly­touted class as the toughest of this year's competition was Tom Biolchini's unanimous over Alex Kerrigan. Biolchini will take on the top-seeded Molloy in Wednesday semifinals. 
page 14 
W. Hoops 
continued from page 20 

being able to pull her squad to within three before the half. The 6-2 Wynne scored 11 of her 19 points in the first half as she also .contributed with 12 rebounds on the afternoon. 
"It was really physical inside," Gaither said. "Dana is one of the top rebound­ers in the Big East and she was tough to handle." 
With senior Adrienne Jordan getting the start on senior night, junior Mollie Peirick came of the bench and enabled her team to stay our in front. 
"Mollie came off the bench for the first time in a long time and hit a couple of big shots for us," McGraw said. "The shots that she hit we really needed so she was a big key for us in the first half." 
Peirick was very effective as she shot 4 of 6 including two from long range on her way to 10 of her 12 points in the first half. 
The Pirates started out hot in the sec­ond and the score was pulled even at 37 a piece with just under 18 minutes remaining in the contest. 
"I don't think that we were really con­cerned," Morgan said. "I just felt like we weren't playing that well and there were some breakdowns defensively." 
"I never felt really concerned even 
though the game was close," McGraw added. "I knew that we just weren't shooting well and that it wasn't going to 
t. I 1 k ld g
con mue. a so new we cou o 
The Observer· SPORTS 

The Observer/ Mike Ruma 

Senior R~sanne. Bohman contributed eight points and eight
rebounds 1n her fmal game at the Joyce Center. 

Put the world at your fingertips. 
Software Engineering Systems Engineering Computer Design Signal Processing Electro-Optics Image Processing 
With Raytheon Electronic Systems, you'll create the technologies that define the future of tomorrow's world. You'll maximize your Engineering and Computer Science knowledge and make an impact when you join our team. We currently have over 350 opportunities available in the technical areas listed above. 
Raytheon Electronic Systems will be visiting campus soon. To find out more about the complex challenges we have to offer, please contact the Career Placement Office to sign up for an interview. 
For additional information, please see our homepage at: http://www.raytheon.com/res 
Interested candidates who are unable to meet with us on campus may send a resume directly to: Raytheon Electronic Systems, Professional Staffing, M/S T2Sl2, 50 Apple Hill Drive, Tewksbury, MA 01876-0901. Fax: (508) 858-1163. E-mail: staffing@res.ray.com 
U.S. citizenship may be required for some positions. Equal Opportunity Employer. 
Raytheon Electronic Systems 

Broncos bust post-season hopes 
By CHARLEY GATES 
Sports Writer 
"It's not over until the fat lady sings" has been a rallying cry for many underdog sports teams over the years. For the Notre Dame hockey team, however, the fat lady has sung. Following Saturday evening's 6-1 drubbing at the hands of Western Michigan, the Boys of Winter were mathematically eliminated from the Central Collegiate Hockey Associatiqn playoffs for the second straight year. "It's really disappoint­ing," stated junior captain Steve Noble. "There's not much else to say." 
On Friday evening, the Boys kept their playoff aspirations alive with a thrilling, 5-4 over­time victory before a sold-out Joyce Center. "It was a huge win," stated Poulin after the game. "It was a balanced attack. We gave up the lead a couple of times but we got it back, and we had the guts to win it in the end." 
Freshman walk-on John Dwyer brought the crowd to its feet at 16:33 of the first period with the first goal of his career. He took a lead pass from fellow freshman Troy Bagne and skated alone in on Bronco goaltender Matt Barnes. Dwyer executed a nifty fake that completely decked Barnes, and he slide the puck past the line for a 1-0 Irish lead. Dwyer's goal opened up a flurry of scoring in the final three minutes of the period. Potent Bronco Joe Corvo sent home a rebound goal less than two minutes later to knot the game at one. 
Senior forward Tim Harberts, however, answered 27 seconds later, taking a great set-up pass from sopho­more center Cr-aig Hagkull, bursting in on Barnes, and writsing a shot over his glove hand. 
But the Broncos were not to be outdone. Less than one minute later, senior Bronco Matt Cresshman knotted the game at two when he knocked home a rebound through traf­fic in front of Eisler. 
The Irish took control of the game in the second period, with the help of Eisler. "Matty is great," stated head coach Dave Poulin. "He has a terrific goals against average, and right now we really need that." Eisler stopped two Bronco breakaways in a span of 50 seconds and saved 17 of 18 shots he faced that period. 
Freshman forward Joe Dusbabek gave the Irish a 3-2 lead on his power-play goal midway through the second. He launched a slap shot from above the right circle that hit Barnes' legs and deflected into the net. 
Later in the period, fellow freshman defenseman Tyson Fraser recorded another power-play goal when he rock­eted a slap shot from just inside the blue line, increasing their lead to 4-2. 
But the Broncos were not finished. They notched two goals in the final 21 minutes of play to send the game into overtime, where the Irish pre­viously were winless. 
Just two minutes into the extra stanza, Sophomore Neal Johnson took a pass from Dwyer, gained a step on the defender marking him, and wristed a shot high into the net for the gamewinning goal. 
But it was not to be. Western Michigan raced out to a 3-0 lead, including one power-play goal, before the first period had ended, and it was just too much for Notre Dame to overcome. 
True or False: Fazoli's offers free soft drink refills when you dine in. Ifyou said true, you aced this quiz. So pop in for free refills on pop. Or do you call it soda? 

Real Italian. Real Fast.™ 52770 US Route 33N, 277-4008, South Bend 
The Observer/Brandon Candura 

Freshman walk-on John Dwyer scored the first goal of his career Friday. ­


"We came out flat in the first period," explained Noble. "We were back on our heels; per­haps we were a little nervous. We had SC?me chances to get back in it, but Barnes [their goalie] made some good stops." 
The Boys notched their only goal of the game 52 seconds into the second stanza, when Steve Noble scored a power-play goal. 
But the Broncos went on to record three more goals, two on man-advantages to put the
' 


Chinese -American Restaurant and Cocktail Lounge 
Authentic Szechuan, Mandarin and Hunan Cuisine 
Lunches starting at .... $4.25 
Dinners starting at .... $5.95 
Banquet rooms available up to 200 


R£AT\VALL 
Bar and Restaurant open 7 days a week 
130 Dixie Way N., South Bend (next to Howard Johnson) 
game well out of reach. "We had too many penalties," stat­ed Noble. "We had to worry about killing them off." 
With just one game against Michigan State remaining in their season, where do the Irish go from here? 
"We keep our heads up and keep going," said Noble. "We also have to look at the whole situation and think about the season -what we could have done. We need to evaluate ourselves as individuals and apply it to the big picture." 
SUMMER CLASSES! 
REDBUD 

Fine Art Workshops 
2 week-3 credit courses $850 (includes tuition & room and board) 
FIELD BIOLOGY FIBERS PAINTING SCULPTURE 
May 19-31, 1997 

Sponsored by Department of Art Saint Mary's College 
For more information or application call: 
284-4655 or 284-4631 
Buy 4 sessions at the regular 
price & get 2 FREE! Buy 5 & get 3 FREE... .. Buy 6 & get 4 FREE.. . 
1 Month & 3 Month Unlimtited Tanning Packages 


page 16 The Observer • SPORTS 
Fighting favorites advance 
By KATHLEEN LOPEZ Spons Writer 
On Sunday afternoon, there were relatively few surprises in the middle weight classes on the first day of Bengal Bouts. All of the favorites prevailed: Christoforetti, Rans, Roy, Maciariello, LePere and Herbert. 
Senior captain John Christoforetti didn't have to step in the ring to defend his 165­pound title, because his oppo­nent sophomore Peter Kelly fell 
ill. The other favorite, No. 2 seed, junior Ryan "The Scar" Rans advanced easily over senior Keith "Rope-A-Dopey" DeBickes. DeBickes did not fall easily as he withstood a barrage of punches until the third round. Finally after two standing eight counts for DeBickes, the match was called.
-
"I thought the fight went pret­ty well," said Rans. "It just felt good to finally get in the ring because actual fighting is so much more different than spar­ring. I felt that I controlled the fight pretty well. I should have done things better in retrospect, as far as ring management and other things like that. Basically, I stayed in control and that was the main thing I want­ed to do." 
Freshman David Remick advanced to the semi-finals as he overpowered his opponent Scott Potter. Senior Ben "Ranger" Rost prevailed over freshman Dan Ryan in a unani­mous decision. Ryan tried to rally from his first round deficit, landing several punches in the opening of the second round. 

"He was very tough down low, and I couldn't get down low," said Rost. "Basically, I wanted to fight a controlled straight fight with the jab. I felt my jab was excellent, along with my combination with the right hook." 
Maciariello advanced with a bye into the semi-finals. The No. 2 seed in the 170-pound division, senior Seth "Take your last breath" Roy, won by unani­mous decision over freshman Eric "The Tick" Hovan. Roy came out swinging, backing Hovan into a corner twice. 
"The first rule of boxing is not to get hit, and the second rule of boxing is to hit the other guy," said Roy. "I felt that I wasn't going to get hit by the other guy. so I went to rule two. I think that the real test will be Wednesday against Norm (Beznoska)" 
Junior Norm "The Barber" Beznoska had a hard fought win. His opponent, freshman Charlie "The Beastie" Vazac, found himself on the mat on more than one occasion. He had a hard time fending of the numerous jabs that Beznoska bombarded him with. 
A dark horse emerged in the 170-pound weight class in junior Sean "Strong Enough For a Man But PH Balanced For A Woman" Mahoney. He put forth an impressive performance as he caught junior Josh "The Wrecking Ball" Akers off guard in the initial moments, forcing Akers to the mat. 
"I am a bigger guy, and he was a little bit shorter so I had the reach on him," said Mahoney about the matchup. "I was throwing a lot of right hooks. I knew that it was going to be hard. I knew that he was a big guy, and that he would be hitting kind of hard, ·so I tried to hit with alii had." 
The 175-pound weight class has virtually no standouts. The class is wide-open. No. 1 seed, Ted "The Bear" Lefere, won by unanimous decision over sopho­more Andrew Riederer. Compared to other top seeds, Lefere did not seem overwhelm­ingly powerful. Junior Chris "Doom" Dobranski won by split decision over senior Sean "Smack Attack" Sircher. 
"Basically, I just kept going to the jab, again and again," said Dobranski. "I just kept the right up, kept him away and kept throwing the jab." 
A possible stand out in the 175-pound division could be junior Andrew "The Brazilian Bruiser" Hebert. Hebert came out swinging, and the barrage of shots never ended. The referee finally called it a night for his opponent, junior Bryan Harkins. With no clear cut standout, the 175-pound weight class could be open to a first year boxer. 
Monday, February 24, 1997 


The Observer/Rob Finch 

Junior Ryan Rans defeated Keith DeBickes with a unanimous decision. 
A Panel Discussion foaturing: 
• Mark Behr, English Dept.• •Prof. Peter WaJshe, Govr. Dept. (Moderator)• •Prof. James McAdams, Govt. Dept.• •Garth Meintjes, Assistant Director/CCHRL• •Jasmin Nordien, Peace Studies Program• 
Thursday, Feb. 27 • 4:00 PM Hesburgh Center Auditorium/Peace Studies FREE ADMISSION http://www.nd.edu/...-ndasa 

-
Monday, February 24, 1997 The Observer • SPORTS 
Top seeds triumph at quarters 
By MIKE DAY 
Assisram Spores Editor 
It wasn't a good day to be an underdog as many of the first year fighters discovered at the 67th annual Bengal Bouts. 
Case in point: there were no surprises in the 145 and 135­pound divisions, illustrating just how accurate the coaches and officers were in seeding this year's group of boxers. 
Junior Lucas Molina, the No. 2 seed and a favorite to capture the 135-pound title, was one of several boxers who lived up to their ranking on Sunday. Just 45 seconds into the second round, Molina captured a TKO victory with a blow that sent newcomer Chris Fahey stagger­ing to the mat. 
"He surprised me a little with two good rights at the beginning of the round," said Molina. "I was able to wear him out a bit, and that caused the fight to end. My speed and endurance helped me out a lot today." 
Looking equally impressive was defending 130-pound champion Tom Will, who picked up right where he left off in 1996. Will dominated newcom­er John Froman on his way to earning a unanimous decision. 
Junior Sean Sharpe, a semifi­nalist last year, was able to overcome a slow start to defeat newcomer Pete Meyer in a split decision. 
"My reach was a big advan­tage out there," said Sharpe. "He's a strong fighter, and he had me dazing at some points. Endurance-wise I was able to wear him out a little bit at the end." 
Rounding out the 135-division was freshman Mike Maguire who, in his first career Bengal Bout match, defeated sopho­more Dave Murphy in a split decision. 
"The coaches certainly helped me out a lot out there today, and I was able to take advantage of the few openings I had against him," said Maguire. 
PLEASE RECYCLE THE OBSERVER 
New Year's Eve. 
Your Birthday. 
The Harlem 
Globetrotters. 
(E'Jer no: ice ho,_.:.; the really g 0 od sLuff co:r-,e~ or: ly or,ce a yea:r?) 
Sunday, March 2 • 2:00PM Joyce Center at Notre Dame 
. Reserved Seating $16, $13, $9 

Magic Circle (Courtside seating with c~mmemoratiye 
Harlem Globetrotters jersey) and VIP seatmg also available. For group discounts call (219) 631-7356 
Tickets available at 
Joyce Center Box 
(Cash only on Jan 30) 
All Ticketmaster 
locations, 

or charge by 
at (219) 272-7979 

$3.00 discount for students and faculty with valid ND ID at Joyce Center Box Office only. 

In the 145-pound class, top seeded Fred Kelly rolled to a TKO victory just 45 seconds'into the second round. However, No. 2 seed Ted Pagano struggled with sophomore Kevin Buccellato in perhaps the most exciting matchup of the after­noon. 
Buccellato caught Pagano off guard with a strong right to the chin that forced Pagano to the mat. 
However, Pagano rallied later on to earn a split decision victo­ry. 
"He's a tough, aggressive fighter," said Buccellato. "He makes you pay for your mis­takes and keeps you aware at all times. He is strong and athletic in the ring, and you have to respect that." 
Sophomore Tom Cronley edged junior Rick Johnson in a unanimous decision, and senior ­Matt Ramarge dominated fresh­man Brian Daigle on his way to earning a unanimous decision. 
Big guys provide entertainment 
By TIM SHERMAN 
Sports Editor 
If you were one of the dedicat­ed Bengal Bout fans who stuck around for the full six hours of fighting Sunday and expected a bunch of knock-outs and upsets in the heavier weight classes, you probably left the Joyce Center a bit disappointed. 
But if went in hopes of some free-swinging, entertaining bouts, you were in luck. 
As expected, defending 180­pound champion Brian Gaffney was a major attraction. Fighting against a somewhat over­matched Kyle Smith, Gaffney gave a three-round exhibition of his brawling, defense and tech­nique-out-the-window style in a unanimous decision. 
"My main goal was to stay under control basically," Gaffney explained. "That obviously did not happen. I wanted to work off the jitters. Being out here in front of a crowd, is much differ­ent than sparring. When I am sparring, I stay under control. Once I get out here, I get fired up and my nervous impulse takes control. If a guy punches me, l going to punch him back." 
Make that "punch him back as many times as I can," which Gaffney did in the third round when referee Tom Suddes ended the bout, awarding Gaffney the TKO win. 
Facing Gaffney on Wednesday will be Mike Romanchek. The freshman advanced past Joe Leninski in a crowd-pleasing bout where true boxing skills were not overly evident. Instead, an active, street-fight­ing style marked Romanchek's split decision victory. 
The same held true in the third fight of the 180-pound class. 
Victorious Aaron Yoder, though, chose to adopt a more defensive style, at least early, than most of his peers. 
Using the first round to feel out opponent Jason Lineen, Yoder concentrated on avoiding any big blows. 
"The number one rule is don't get hit," said freshman Yoder. "I tried to focus my practice and efforts out there on defense." 
The increased offensive attack during the second half of the fight were enough to convince the judges, who unanimously gave Yoder the win. 
Solid execution of the funda­mentals also carried Mike DeBiasi to the semi-finals. 
The second-seeded senior jabbed and boxed his way to vic­tory over Adam June, on a unanimous decision. 
The 190-pound division offered just two fights to the afternoon's lengthy card, as top­seeded Mike Mantey had bye, while Mike Velten advanced via a walk-over. 
His scheduled opponent, Matthew Lubbers, sustained a concussion earlier in the week and was not permitted to fight. 
"I was disappointed because it'd be nice to get a fight under my belt," said Velten. 
He will get his chance Wednesday against Todd Carcelli, who advanced past Mike O'Donnell on a TKO. 
In the other 190 match-up, Craig Prins earned the right to face Mantey by his ability to connect on David Buckley to earn a unanimous win. 

Buckley was bloodied exces­sively and received a standing eight count in the third round but was able to make the final bell in a gritty effort. 
Like Mantey, 200-pound favorite Troy Phillips received a bye and was able to use the day as a scouting opportunity. 
His eyes were fixed on a rela­tively sloppy slugfest between John Barsic and Chris Craytor. In one of the few fights where the lower seed advanced, Craytor took the unanimous decision. A late comeback made it possible in a contest that was anything but graceful. 
Much the same could be said for Chris Conoscenti win over Felipe Reynoso. Though the judges' unanimous decision in the favor of Conoscenti didn't show it, the match was evenly fought. Neither pugilist landed a significant share of blows but Conoscenti will fight again. 
His future opponent, Dave Butz, ended the card with a flur­ry. literally. The inexperienced Butz provided a Gaffney-like performance, and was nearly as effective. 
Throwing all kinds of punches at Chad Stracensky, Butz domi­nated and looked to be a poten­tial quality challenge for Phillips. Starcensky, to his credit, was tough in defeat. 
"I was exhausted in there," said Butz. "I gave it everything I had. I'm glad it was enough. I'm looking forward to Wednesday." 
So is everybody else. 
.... 
• 
• 


The Observer • SPORTS Monday, February 24, 1997 
QUART R-FINA[!"'R'ESU 
157 

-
Dave "Kid Arcola" Monahan (Bye) 
.. ····:<:~:-~<·f;.i.,,. .4m .,.-,-.#.%:.:<:' ..-. 
Michael Rom,~nchek vs. Joey Leniski 
···:·::M@illi~~;;; ,,~w.t.·· -u.,:.,.;,:,:,~:Wi.Nk:~, 
Information Meeting 
Feb 25th (Tues) 
SOCIAL 

6:30-7:00 PM 
CONCERNS 

at the Center for Social Concerns 
Mrican American & Hispanic 
$2300.00 for 10 week program Three elective Theology credits HA AA St. Procopius-Cgo St. Agatha-Cgo St. Ben's-Detroit St. V. de Paul-San Diego (South Bend) 
Center for Social Concerns Office of Multicultural Student Affairs 
Officer applications due outside of L059 COBA. ?'s call 1-9330. Also, look for Thomas Quinn's lecture, 'The Marketing Life of Curiosity' Tues., Feb. 25 at 4 PM in 121 COBA. Gymnastics Club: Come watch ND/SMC Gymnastics Club compete at their home meet-Clover Classic. Angela Athletic Facility, 12 noon, Sat., March 1. Cheer on your Irish gymnasts! Club Coordination Council: Attention club officers! Registration packets for clubs for the 1997-98 school year due Fri., Feb. 28. Failure to register by this date will make your club ineligible for funding. Packets in 315 LaFortune. Call1-7308 or 1-4078 for more info. Women's Resource Center: Come to the Feb. 24, 9 PM meeting at the WRC (in Student Government Office). Also, every Friday from 12-1 in the WRC, join in the Friday Brown Bag Lunch Discussion Series . Bagpipe Band: Drummers! The ND Bagpipe Band needs you! If you can play snare and/or tenor drums, contact Dan at 4-0946 immediately. 
'Irish: These dorms have their Adopt-A-Day this week: Mon.-Howard; Tues.-Keenan; Wed.-Keough; Thurs.-Knott. To get valved, contact your dorm's Environmental Commissioner. For more info call He! a @ 4 3486 or Cristin @ 4 4408 
• 

Stop by our 2nd floor LaFortune office to see what the Club Council has to offer you and your organization! 
• 
• 

-------------------------------------------~--~--------------~------~------------------------------~ 
Monday, February 24, 1997 The Observer • TODAY page 19 
CREAM 0' THE \TALLEY ROAD ED LEADER 

MOTHER GOOSE & GRIMM 

DILBERT I I I-lAD TO PROMISE. THE. u " I'LL .SOLVE \HE Tlt''\lNG < BEGINNING
0 u 
SCOTT ADAMS 
. 
0

CUSTOMER WE COULD BU[L\) .. -' PROBLEM B"'' SHIFIING . u '(OUR 
THE "THING IN A f"\\NTH ® en BLAME 10 E.NGII\lEERING ~ PLA-NNING
.." 
0

EVEN THOUGH YOU SA.ID .. WHILE 5PE.NDING IHE. en. ~ HA.S 
IT WAS Ir'\POSSIBLE. >->-HUGE BONUS I GOT FOR .. Ir'\PROVED. 
u ... 
en

) 0 ~ 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 31 --and Span 61 Salad bar (cleaner brand) implement
1 Catch-22 35 Poi ingredients 62 Unpleasant
5 Nimble 36 Bring in 
person

9 Paul of 63 Roast beef"American 37 Roxy Music request
Graffiti" co-founder Brian 64 Hello in Hila
14 Where pirates. moor 38 "Planet of the 
65 Concept of Apes" spoiler 
Descartes

15 Queen of scat 42 Cartoon dog 
66 Deck hands

16 Khomeini, for one 43 Provides 
67 Snappish machine 68 Copper

17 Ugandan tyrant maintenance 69 Vehemence
18 Carpenters' work? 
44 Venusian, for one

19 Frankie or Cleo 
DOWN
45 Lobster pot

20 "Citizen Kane" spoiler 47 In high spirits 1 Lasting impression?
23 First-class 48 Bells and service whistles 2 Pitcher Hideo 
24 Diamonds. to 49 Kind of shore 3 Budget alternative
hoods 51 Afflict 25 Scattered 4 Kind of pool
52 "The Crying 29 Oversized Game" spoiler 5 Figure out 6 Give the slip 1 Whipped along ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
8 "Toodle-co'" 9 Violet shade 
32 Hidden rocks, 51 #1 Green
z 
1 PSI' 1 Leo ITA •s 

BU\1"\E 11\ANSFER 
NOW ... 
YOUR HOROSCOPE JEANE DIXON 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY! IN THE NEXT YEAR OF YOUR LIFE: Know your worth and set high goals for yourself. Career progress will ~ain momentum as 1997 unfolds. An all-out communications effort will produce a business boom in midsummer. Joining forces with a talented colleague sends profits soaring. Ma!Tiage enjoys especially favorable inllucnces next fall. Give 
some thought to moving to a new 
home. A change of lifestyle could hcnetit every member of the family' Reveal your sentimental side to friends. 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: "CBS This Morning" reporter Paula Zahn. auto racer Alain Pro~t. actor Edward James Olmos. soprano Renata Scotto. 
ARIES !March 21-April 19): Socializing should wait while you focus on work assignments. An elu­sive goal moves within reach. Auth­ority figures are pleased by your 11·illingness to be a team player. 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Working on your own will bring ,pecial rewards this week. A secret money deal could net you big bucks; however. seck an expert's advice before proceeding. 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Use credit cards sparingly to avoid high interest charges. Your ability to get people to do you favors puts you ahead of the competition. Be wary of a rival's tactics. 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): Refuse to let a lack of progress stifle vour enthusiasm. Success beckons' :-\Ithough a friend removes an obsta­cle. there are strings attached. Think 
twice about going it alone . 

LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Repay­ing a deht will improve your credit. 
Be patient when renegotiating a con­
tract. Seek legal advice if the fine print is confusing. The skies are 
clear to invest in a renovation pro­
ject. Postpone romance. 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): You gain an advantage by working solo or behind the scenes. Let your ESP guide you through rough waters. Discovering previously hidden assets works in your favor. 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): A unique business opportunity puts a positive spin on your financial situa­tion. Your responsibilities double, but so do the benefits. Others are relying on your leadership in critical matters. 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Teamwork is possible thanks to your practical ideas and sound solutions. It pays to stay in the mainstream of activity at work. An unexpected visit or phone call could reignite an old romance. Go slow. 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21 ): Curb a tendency to be overly emotional today. Quarreling could upset your apple cart. Resist people who demand you take sides. Spend­ing time alone keeps you centered. 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): You are ready to explore new territory in your professional and social relationships. Engage in lively conversations. Your dynamic man­ner acts as a magnet. 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Do not allow impatience to mar this otherwise excellent day. Compro­mise is your strongest ally. Go ahead and ~1ix business with pleasure this evemng. 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): 
Heed your instincts. A new business 
plan needs tine tuning. Recycling a 
past project will let you make new 
prolits. An older person is willing to 
be your mentor. 


56 One who takes 10 Gets the lead
OMIT ENERO ILIE 
to a ship Mountain Boy messagesout 33 Microchip giant 52 G.D.P., for one 57 Military parade ~~~ U S E A T.~ C 0 R E 11 Knights' garb
ANT.EDNA MATTED 
34 Lawyer Roy and passageway
53 Swimming-­
12 Actress Jeffreys family54 Hazzard County 
deputy 59 Rug figure 
MiEIRlC A u N CIH E A 
21 Opera villain, KazanP 0 AlES H 0 S E.A L Y 
55 "War and 60 First name on
often 39 "I read you" 
CHAIN A L I.NIU DE 
Peace," e.g. Capitol Hill 22 Autographs 40 Baseball's T 0 N. E B A N P E. 

Wynn

25 Kick off 41 Champion of 
SWORDSWALLOWER 
26 Times or Post Answers to any three clues in this puzzle -E G 0 s•A UN T 
10/30/74 

are available by touch-tone phone: 27 Omni or Forum
F e e Oi,_F!I coLT·~~~ 
46 Pickle 

1-900-420-5656 (75e per minute). 
LATH BOOTLICKER 
28 Donnybrook 48 Choice cut Annual subscriptions are available for the A A N 0 E A A S E A Y E S 29 In the worst way 

50 School best of Sunday crosswords from the last P S A T D A T E D B E T A 30 Spring flower assignment 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 

HP 

Feed the 
::····fo01Udvi-\l~hJ8'tiyt11;~~,:~f~::,~i¥ih ··•enf'd~mp~'u' : ety~,q;
hungry and 
Wanted: Reporters, photographers and editors. Join The Observer staff. 
-

The dorm donating the most money by the end
win dance 
of February will win money for a dance. funds for Be on the lookout for special collections your dorm! e in residence halls this month! 




SPORTS 
page 20 Monday, February 24, 1997 
• MEN'S BASKETBALL 
• WOMEN's BASKETBAll 
Adding more fuel to NIT fire 
White's clutch shot propels Irish to overtime rout 
By BETSY BAKER God Shammgod, that is. Providence had maintained Assistant Spans Editor As the capacity Joyce Center nearly the whole game. crowd watched the ball leave White's three-pointer tied the 
Not even the power of God Admore White's hands with game at 64-64, sending the could help Providence beat the three seconds left in regulation, game into overtime in which Notre Dame men's basketball not a prayer in the world could the Irish looked like a national team on Saturday. have preserved the lead that champion team. 
-
White's shot provided a bit of dramatic irony because it was the same shot, down to the same place on the floor, that he h~d missed against Indiana and Connecticut earlier in tho sea­son. However, three was a charm and it sparked what would become five minutes of 
arguably the best basketball the Irish have played this season and definitely the biggest win of the season. 
"To be able to come from 

behind like that and have Admore make the same shot he missed in Indiana and Connecticut was tremendous," head coach John MacLeod said. "He knocked it down without hesitation." 
Although the 86-74 victory appears to be decisive, the game itself was a constant bat­tle for the Irish, lagging behind for all but three minutes in the first half. 
Providence came out strong, immediately taking an 11-1 lead five minutes into the game. Although they were able to tie the game up midway through the half, they couldn't maintain the lead and went into the lock­er room down by seven. 
Controversial off-setting tech­nicals on Marcus Young and Providence's Jamel Thomas, in addition to an intentional foul by White with three minutes left in the half, only added to the Irish frustration with both their own play and the officiat­ing. 
Although the Irish showed a few flashes of brilliance in the second half, mostly sparked by The Observer/Mike Ruma the team's leading-scorer Matt 
Matt Gotsch led the Irish with 18 points in the 86-74 overtime victory 
over Providence. seeM. HOOPS I page 14 

The Observer/Mike Ruma 

Beth Morgan scored 24 points in Saturday's win over Seton Hall. The win makes no. 24 for the Irish, a new single-season record. 
Senior send-off 
game before yielding 75-61.

Treasured class 
The win gives the Irish 24 on the year which breaks themaintains home school record set last year as they are now 24-5 on the yeardominance and 16-1 in the Big East with just one more regular season
By JOE CAVATO game remaining.
Spans Writer 
After a sizzling start in which the Irish put 10 on the

The largest crowd of the 
board in the first four min­

year entered the Joyce Center 
utes, the Pirates picked upSaturday night in hopes of their defense and the shots

seeing a historic win and the 
stopped falling for the Bluesend-off of one of the finest 

and Gold.

classes in Notre Dame's histo­
"It was a very emotional 

ry. The Seton Hall Pirates did evening," head coach Muffet not make things easy for the McGraw said. "There were a
16th ranked hosts as they 
lot of distractions before the were hoping to see a better game."

effort then their 40 point loss 
Early foul trouble for 

at the hands of the Irish earli­
Katryna Gaither and Beth 
er this year. 
Morgan's 3 for 12 shooting inThe Hall used a stingy zone 

the first half translated into

defense and the fact that the 
Seton Hall's Dana Wynne

rims were tight to stay with Notre Dame for most of the 
• BENGAl BOUTS 
Quarterfinals no surprise 
By BETSY BAKER match. I'm one step closer to my eventual Assistant Spans Editor goal, and that is to repeat a championship." Although the match appeared to be more 
There were no major upsets or surprising of a mismatch, it gave Polina the confidence victories at the first day of the 67th Bengal to defend his title. Bouts yesterday, only 45 hard-fought "It was good for me to get a match under matches. my belt. You never really know until you've 
-
For the most part, the top seeds won, the stepped in the ring whether all your train­lower seeds lost, and the middle seeds put ing has paid off." forth some evenly-matched battles. Polina hopes that the quickness of his 
One of the more impressive performances match will prove his intention in the bouts, of the top seeds came through junior Doug to win the title. PoliHa's first round victory over freshman "I went out with the attitude to get on him Andrew McElhinney in the 150-pound as quick as possible and end it as quick as class. Polina started the match on fire possible," he added. "I wanted to send a landing nearly all of his jabs to message to the rest of the guys in my McElhinney's face. After McElhinney fell weight class." twice less than a minute into it, the referee In other 150-pound action, freshmen J.R. stopped the match leaving the defending Melliri also managed to stop his match in champion Polina to look toward the second round by defeating senior Mike Wednesday's semi-finals. Ebberly. Mellin used a three-jab combina­
"I felt somewhat relieved because you're tion to induce a bloody nose from Ebberly always nervous for the first match," Polina and soon afterward end tho match. Mellin 
commented. "It was good to win the first 
see BENGALS I page 14 


vs. Miami, Tomorrow,7:30 p.m. 
at West Virginia, Tommorow 
., 
Men's Tennis at Michigan 
State, February 26 
vs. Michigan State, \_ February 28, 7 p.m. aJ •Hockey post-season hopes die 
Women's Tennis at Wisconsin, ~ see page 15
.....
February 27 

riJ • Women's golf places 9th 
• 
Indoor Track at USA see page 12
Track, February 28 -March 1

• ~ 
~ 




