-~ -·-" ~­

Wednesday, November 19, 1997 • Vol. XXXI No. 57 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Administration urges smokers to quit for 'smokeout' 
By MICHELLE S. PRIMEAU 
NrwsWrirer 
This Thursday, many smokers in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's communities will be going "cold turkey" as a part of the Great American Smokeout. 
Programs on both campuses will be offering incentives for smokers to give up the habit. Smokers who turn in tobacco products will receive food items and cessation materials in return. 
Notre Dame's program is offering a frer, turkey sandwich to anyone who turns in tobacco products including cig&rs and dww. SMC students. faculty and staff who turn in a pack of ciga­rettes will receive a chocolate turkey, and those who relinquish five cigarettes will get a choco­late medallion. 
Those who do not smoke but are concerned about someone ~ho does are encouraged to fill out a pledge sheet promising to discuss quitting with them and enter a raffie for a large choco­late turkey. 
The Great American Smokeout is a program sponsored by the American Cancer Society. It is designed to encourage smokers to stop for one day in the hope that they might permanently quit. 
"Quitting smoking is very diffi­cult. It's not just the nicotine addiction, but the habit of light­ing up when stressed or when drinking coffee that is hard to 

Roos urges students to help in campaigns 
By NICOLE SWARTZENTRUBER News Writer 
In an efl'ort to promote greater student involvPment in political eampaigning, Notre Dame's gov­ernmPnt department, College Dnmocrats and College Republicans held an open forum last night. 
Government 

Roos said. 
lie also said that campaign volunteers establish vital con­tacts. and experience "some of the fastest mobility" within the political arena. 
The importance of campaign involvement revolves around Roos's belief that "as American citizens we have a duty" to par­
ticipate. 
"You'll be 

professor John 'STUDENTS SHOULD GET exposed to Hoos, College some of the
ON BOARD NOW ... I
Democrats most advanced president J.P. THINK JHE YEAR 2000 IS communications technologies,"
Cooney. and GOING TO BE AN EXTRAOR­
C o I I e g e Roos told stu­
He pub I i cans DINARY CAMPAIGN.' dents. pn~sident Terry Politicians uti-Kiwala headed 
PROFESSOR JOI!N Roos lize polls. sur­thn forum. 
Politieally ori­ented students have much to gain by intnrning or volunteer­ing on a campaign, the panelists explained. Hoos conveyed the benefits and importance of polit­ical volunteering while explain­ing to students how to get involved in campaign work. 
"You'll learn a lot about the nwchanics. financial pressures, and voter aspects of politics," veys, Web sites, 

e-mail, televi­sion and any other available media outlet to assist their cam­paigning. 
Roos told students to "draw a map of opportunities" in order to get involved. Students should contact their local chairperson or district aide, he said, because these can refer students to cam-
see POLITICS I page 4 

Procession for peace ... 

The Observer/Meg Kroener Approximately 100 people joined the candle light procession around campus last night to pray for unity, healing and an end to intoler­ance. The pilgrimage was followed by a prayer service in the Basilica. The gathering was sponsored by PEACE (People for Equality, Action, Community and Education) and Campus Ministry. 
'Healing arts' may soon be available at SMC 
Center offers corporeal, spiritual cures 
By MELANIE GARMAN 
Assistanr Sainr Mary's News Editor 
NestlPd in a small. peaceful eommunity overlooking the banks of the St. Joseph River, the Healing Arts Center on the Biver provides a holistic approaeh to healthcare, com­bining both traditional and complementary forms of heal­ing. 
The center. which opened in August of 1995, provides a wide range of serviens, indud­ing massage therapy, stress management, nutrition coun­snling, herbal therapy and spiritual mentoring. Classes are offered periodically to the community which promote relaxation of the mind and body. 


Sister Judian Breitenbach, executive director of the Healing Arts Center, is extremely proud of the progress the Center has made within the past two years. 
"Everyone here is so dedicat­ed to what they do and truly believes in the power of the mind," said Breitenbach. "It is amazing to watch the transfor­mations people go through from just beginning our pro­gram to the finish." 
In accordance with the cen­ter's mission statement, the philosophy of the center recog­nizes each client as a self-heal­er. The statement also says that the center will provide each person or family with the choice of. the best remedies in an atmosphere of acceptance and love. 
"We've separated the body and soul for so long that it is time to get in touch with the essence of life, that is the spir­it," said Breitenbach. 
Traditional physicians' meth­ods for curing disease have been drugs and surgery; they have been known to downplay the mental abilities and factors such as faith, energy, and the spirit, said Breitenbach. 
The Healing Arts Center bases its therapy around the 
conceptual model which acknowledges each person as a self-healer, althowgh each has outside help, such as educa­tional programs, social agen­cies, churches, physicians and environmental therapy. 
The center employs several modalities, including spiritual and pastoral counseling, art therapy, acupuncture, massage therapy, "healing touch," and "physician holistic health assessment." 
Karen Dupuis, director of marketing and development for the center, believes that people visiting the facility get the chance to relax in a peaceful setting, but she also believes that it is good for the mental healing therapists to make "house calls" within the sur­
see SMC I page 4 


Conference focuses on Alzheimer's 
BySARAH J. HILTZ 
News Writer 
Approximately four. million 
Americans currently have 
Alzheimer's Disease. This fig­
tire will rise to 14 million by . the middle of the next century unless a cute or prevention is found, according to the ~hetmer's Association. 
In order to treat these 14 
million Alzheimer's patients ··tomorrow, it is necessary today to promote awareness of and l:'lducation about the disease, said Kara Kennedy, who directs patient and family ser­vices at the National Alzheimer's Association. 
The Alzheimer's Disease 
Research Summit included a 
speech by Kennedy, who is 
currently overseeing a national 
study trying to effectively con­
nect families with needed ser­
vices. 
The summit began with an 
introduction by John Weber, 
associate professor in Notre 
Dame's marketing department. 
The day continued with a brief 
videotaped message from 
Nancy Reagan, wife of former 
president Ronald Reagan, a 
victim of Alzheimer's Disease. 
Part of Mrs. Reagan's message 
included the promotion of the 
Ronald and Nancy Reagan 
Research Institute. which is 
intended to advance research 
about Alzheimer's and to edu­
cate and train the public about 
how to care for the victims of 
the disease, I·· Reagan's illness illustrated 
that the disease can strike any­
one, Kennedy said, helping to 
promote awareness of 
Alzheimer's, 
"The fact that it happened to 
a president of the United 
States, a person who's sup­
posed to have so many 
resources, brings people to 
deal with reality." Kennedy 
explained. 
The focus of Kennedy's 
speech was the importance of 
preparing for the existence of 
Alzheimer's in the 21st centu­

see KENNEDY I page 4 
~ -----~~-------------------------. 
The Observer • INSIDE Wednesday, November 19, 1997 




utside the Dome 
Compiled from U-Wire reports 
North Carolina State project to go up with space shuttle 
.------------~----~---~~-~ ­
page 2 
• INSIDE CoLUMN 

It's a "Wonderful n1ess 
In 1620, the Pilgrims landed at Plymouth Rock. They had been persecuted for their reli­gious choices in their native England, so they came to the New World 
where they could practice their customs of not danc­ing, not laughing, not play­ing cards and having a generally miserable time in peace. 
According to popular American legend, the 

Pilgrims celebrated the  Sarah Hiltz  
survival of their first long  News Copy Editor  
winter with an enormous  

feast of turkey, stuffing, potatoes, and pumpkin pie. They then passed out on the couch and watched John Madden Telestrate a drumstick. 
The next day, the gastronomically satisfied Pilgrims began their daily routine of milking the cows, gathering the eggs, saying their prayers and disciplining their children for happiness. They then all got in the car and went to the mall. ready and willing to spend their dispos­able incomes on tinsel, wrapping paper and other ornamental items from which they had fled in England. 
Something does not fit here. 
Thanksgiving is celebrated as a remem­brance of the ftrst few brave Americans who endured the harsh winter so that they would be able to live in peace. To them, this country rep­resented opportunity, freedom and endless resources. The ftrst Thanksgiving Day suppos­edly was the symbolic culmination of the rewards of their struggles. 
Much of this meaning has been lost after cen­turies of "progress." The 20th century contribu­tion to the Thanksgiving tradition was to turn it into an extravaganza of capitalism; to retailers, Thanksgiving is the trigger for the beginning of the Christmas shopping season, as if one exploited holiday was not enough. 
I am not criticizing contemporary society for disregarding the "true meaning" of the holi­days. That would be far too trendy. I am simply acknowledging that the meaning of Thanksgiving has evolved altogether. 
Thanksgiving is not the only example of a hol­iday that has adapted to keep up with the demands of a fast-moving culture. Rewind to Bethlehem, Dec. 25, 0000. 
Some shepherds have been called to follow a star. They follow it to a stable, where they see that a baby is about to be born. While they wait for the Savior of Humanity to be born, they dis­cover that the only thing on worth watching is "It's a Wonderful Life." Tradition is born. 
Oh yeah. So was Jesus. 
Again, I am not jumping on the Americans­are-disrespectful-pigs bandwagon. I am simply demonstrating how holidays have evolved to assume entirely new meanings. I still meditate on the birth of Christ every Dec. 25 and I attend Mass and the traditional Christmas pageant. But not everybody does, and we as a society have accepted that as part of the annual holi­day cycle. 
From the day after Thanksgiving until Christmas, the malls, streets and shopping markets are all lavishly decorated with Santa, reindeer and expressions of holiday cheer. But because of political correctness and commercial interests, no references are publicly made to the real purpose of the holiday. It's hardly in tune with the Pilgrims' plight, but that's just the way things are done in 1997. 
So a week from tomorrow, America will gorge itself on food that the Pilgrims probably never heard of. fall asleep in front of the tube and wake up just in time to hit the malls. 
And I will probably do the exact same thing. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 


News  Accent  
Dave Freddoso  Rachel Torres  
Anne Marie Matringly  Graphics  
Kristi Klitsch  Melissa Weber  
Sports  Production  
Anrhony Bianco  Betsy Baker  
Viewpoint  Mark DeBoy  
Mary Margaret Nussbaum  Lab Tech  
Joe Stark  
Wednesday(f 41 30 Thursday ~ 47 29 Friday ~ 48 36


The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 

HALEIGI-1, N.C. 
N.C. State's Chris Brown may never get to space himself, but his experi­ments will. 
NCSU's very own associate profes­sor (adjunct) in the department of botany, Chris Brown is working close­ly with a NASA contractor -in fact, they pay him -to better understand the growth of plants in space. 
On the next mission of the shuttle Columbia, scheduled for liftoff Wednesday, six canisters of "dark­Such research may seem a bit grown soybean seedlings" will be extravagant in these birthing times of opened, watered and carefully space travel. However. as the quest observed for six days in the micro­for missions within the solar system gravity of space, according to Brown. matures, longer periods in space will 
Hardly the stuff of a riveting adven­be necessary. For this to be possible, ture novel; however, to Brown and his life support systems much more NASA counterparts, the experiments advanced than those of today are nec­are exciting in their own right. essary. 
"Ultimately, plants will be used in a However, earlier research has dis­bioregenerative life support system -covered that plants grown in the using plants will purify the air and micro-gravity of extraterrestrial vehi­

• UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA, DAVIS 
Professor files discrimination suit 
DAVIS, Calif. 

Calling gender and age discrimination a factor in the decision to deny her a tenured position, Margit Stange, former UC Davis assistant professor of English, is awaiting pre-trial motions in a federal suit filed against the UC Board of Regents. Stange was denied a tenured position in July 1996 and instead was offered a one-year terminal one. According to her complaint, filed at the U.S. District Court, Eastern District of California, "the regents' refusal to promote tenure constituted discrimination against her on the basis of sex, age, and/or opposition to sex discrimi­nation and sexual harassment." Althought she couldn't comment on specific evidence, Strange did note that over her seven years with the department she helped a student who had been sexually harassed. She advocated real changes to the curriculum so that students could focus on minority and women's literature. "These and other inci­dents will be brought out in the course of litigation," she said. "I believe that retaliation played a part in the tenure denial, and that's why my complaint cites retaliation as well as bias." Also entered into evidence will be a tenure promotion ftle, which the committees reviewed in deter­mining Stange's promotion to tenure. 
• NmnHWESTERN UNIVERSITY Minority med school applications up 
EVANSTON, Ill. 

Minority students' applications to medical schools in states affected by affirmative action bans are falling, but at Northwestern, applications are on the rise. A report by the Association of American Medical Colleges found that the number of minorities applying to medical schools in Texas, Louisiana, Missisippi and California has dropped 17 per­cent. In states not affected by affirmative action bans, applications are down seven percent. At NU, however, the number of minority student applicants is on the rise. In 1997. 296 African-American students applied, and 28 were accepted. In 1998, 342 African-American students applied. The number of llispanic students has remained the same, and American-Indian applicants have increased. 
• SOUTH BEND WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forecast AccuWeather® forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 
r,,__ //< H L
...............___, 
: 
,,,,, 


38 32 
39 24 
q,~,QQ.Q.Q {) ~ u 
Showers T-storms Rain Fl~,;ies S~o-~ Ice Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy 
Via Associated Press GraphicsNet 
cles often have a much lower starch concentration than their earth-bound counterparts. 
Brown hopes that his experiments, along with the four others on the mis­sion, will help NASA better under­stand the growth of plants in space. 
Brown's experiment in particular. called "Soy Met," is designed to deter­mine the "influence of the space flight environment on plant metabolism ... especially starch [concentrations)." 
Since starch is important to life, growth and energy, such research into the cause for reduced starch con­centration is important to future, long-distance space travel. Hence, SoyMet is designed to test several possible causes for reduced starch concentrati-ons of space-grown plants, particularly in the interests of finding a way to make the plants grow more starch despite the surrounding condi­tions. 
• UNIVERSITY Of PENNSYLVANIA Student shot in attempted carjacking 
PHILADELPHIA, Penn. 
A University senior was shot and wounded last night 
during an attempted carjacking, police said. As of early 
this morning, the student remained hospitalized in sta­
ble condition. Although doctors at the Hospital of the 
University of Pennsylvania said .the student's wounds 
did not require surgery, they admitted him overnight for 
observation, accodrding to police: The student was shot 
in the abdomen during the incident, and the bullet then 
"reflected down and went into the most fleshy part of 
his thigh," University Police Det. Cmdr. Tom King said. 
The incident began around 9:30 p.m. when the senior ~ 
whose name has not yet been released by police -was 
approached by a man while standing at the open trunk 
of his grey Ford Taurus. The man walked up to the stu­
de!lt and ordered him to hand over his car keys, police 
said. When the student refused, the man pulled out a 
short-barreled silver revolver and shot him. Witnesses 
told police that the man fled. Police and University offi­
cials stressed that Penn and Philadelphia police officers 
are searching for the assailant, whom witnesses 
described as an approximately 5'8" black man in his 
early 20s. 

• UNIVERSITY OF ARIZONA Single $10 million gift sets new record 
TUCSON, Ariz. 
A UA graduated demonstrated his "fterce" support of 
t~e university Saturday by making a record-shattering 
smgle year donation of $10 million. This marks the second 
time in two months the universtiy has announced a $10 
million gift, but the previous gift will be delivered over 10 
years. The donation, made by Karl Eller and his wife, 
Stevie, will establish an endowment to benefit the entre­
peneurhsip program at the UA College of Business and 
Public Administration. "I always dreamed of a day when I 
could help young people get some real-world experience 
and start their own businesses," said Karl Eller, who has 
founded several different multimillion-dollar businesses 
that own 50,000 billboards across the United States. 
• NATIONAL WEATHER 
The AccuWeather®forecast for noon, Wednesday, Nov. 19. 
H L 


HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY VIII AtuOC!IIIted Press 
Atlantic City  54  29  Lakehurst  53  27  Piscataway  49  26  
Belmar-Farmingdale  53  28  Little Silver  52  28  Teterboro  st  26  
Caldwell  50  26  Millville  54  27  Trenton  51  26  
Hackettstown  48  26  Morristown  48  26  Wildwood  54  27  
Hammontown  54  28  Newark  52  26.  Wrightstown  53  27  


page 4 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, November 19, 1997 

Kennedy 
continued from page I 
ry. Although fewer than one in ten elderly persons was 85 or older in 1990, this figure will be one in five by 2045. The cause of this increase is the aging of the "baby boomer" generation. 
Kennedy claimed that this generation will not only be enormous in size, but will also have a much longer life expectancy than the previous generation. 
Because of the possibility of an exhaustion of Social Security funds for these people's retire­ment, it is particularly crucial that the younger generations become educated now in anticipation of the care that the baby boomers are going to require, Kennedy explained. 
Kennedy also revealed how the aging of the baby boomer generation will affect the work force in the 21st century. 
"There won't be enough people to provide care," she said. "We are having problems now finding people who know about Alzheimer's and can pro­vide care." 
Kennedy discussed the impact that the degener­ative disease will have on the generation that is now of college age. College-aged people, she said, will soon see Alzheimer's become a factor in the lives of not only their grandparents, but also their 
parents. 


Smoke 
continued from page I 
them in a visible place. 
They add that smokers may find it easier to quit if they avoid the purchase of cigarettes by the carton and· only buy a new pack after finishing the current pack. 
Furthermore, buying a brand that the quitter doesn't particu­larly like can be helpful. Health Services also recommends that the quitter "make the habit awkward" by placing one's ciga­rette pack in an unfamiliar pocket and not carrying a lighter or matches. 
"It's important to have a day to support people in their effort to quit and to continue that sup­port afterwards," Landry said. 
Tobacco products can be turned in at Notre Dame at Grace Hall from 10 a.m. to 

10:45 a.m., at the Joyce Center Gate 2 from 11 a.m. to 11:45 a.m., at LaFortune and both din­ing halls from 11 a.m. to 2 p.m., in the library concourse from 1 
p.m to 1:45 p.m., in the Hurley main lobby from 2 p.m. to 2:45 p.m., and Building Services break room from 3 p.m. to 3:45 p.m. 

The traveling information table at SMC will be in the lobby area of Haggar College Center from 11 a.m. to 12 p.m., LeMans from 12:30 p.m. to 1:30 p.m., and Madeleva 2 p.m. to 3 p.m. 
"Because of diagnostic improvements, some of ed that 82 percent of adult [the younger] age group may be directly impacted 
Americans said they believed by parents in their 30s, 40s and 50s," Kennedy 
SMC 

in the healing power of per­said. 
continued from page 1 sonal prayer. Also, 73 percent Kennedy made some suggestions regarding 
said they believed praying for what people can do now to prepare for 
rounding communities. someone else can help cure Alzheimer's in the 21st century. In addition to pro­
"We have had some inquiries their illness, while 77 percent moting research and education and advocating the 
as to our stress management said they believed God some­implementation of public policy that encourages 
programs being offered during times intervenes to cure peo-

Politics 
continued from page 1 
paign coordinators for next year. He added that students can also find out what offices are up for reelection and per­sonally contact incumbent politi­cians. 
Roos urged students to remain persistent because "you can find someone who will talk to you." 
Most importantly, "students should get on board now," Roos stated. He advised that they compile a resume and start try­ing to make contacts this Christmas. He suggested making a list of Notre Dame alumni, and considering prospects for the 'ONE OF THE BIGGEST 
PROBLEMS WE FACE AS A CATHOLIC-RUN INSTITU­TION IS THE FACT THAT PED­
PLE TEND TO DIFFERENTIATE 

ple who have a serious illne:;s. 
The Ilealing Arts Center does not attempt to be 
not a scientific 
research facili­t y. Rather, it 
SPIRITUALI1Y AND RELIGION.' purports to be 
a service facili­ty which offers SISTER }UD/AN BREITENBACI/ holistic thera­
advancement of Alzheimer's issues, Kennedy emphasized working together as a community to help patients. 
"We have to pull together to pool resources and fill gaps that are not provided for," she said. 
Terry McFadden, anchorman for WNDU, also spoke. lie commented that the gathering of some of the greatest minds in Alzheimer's research was an unprecedented event, especially in the Midwest. 
McFadden's interest in the summit was also per­sonal. Two of his grandparents suffered from Alzheimer's, and he discussed how Alzheimer's can profoundly affect its victims' families. 
His own parents, for example, had a great bur­den to bear. "Hopefully, advanced research will prevent me from going through what my parents went through," McFadden said. 
Yesterday's speech, "Setting the Agenda for the 21st Century," was held yesterday at as part of the Alzheimer's Disease Research Summit in Jordan Auditorium in the College of Business Administration. 
finals week on the campus of Saint Mary's," said Dupuis. "I think it would be worthwhile and beneficial for the stu­dents of Saint Mary's to par­ticipate in the programs we have to offer." 

pies in a quiet and peaceful environment. Saint Mary's President Marilou 1 
Eldred is scheduled to visit and meet with Breitenbach early next month to discuss the possibility of forming classes on campus that would give stu­dents the opportunity to take advantage of what the Healing Arts Center has to offer. Students would combine both traditional and complementary forms of healing to overcome any mental or physical chal­lenges that they may encounter. 
The staff of the center also pride themselves on being multicultural, inclusive and ecumenical. 
"One of' the biggest problems we face as a Catholic-run com­munity, is the fact that people tend to differentiate between spirituality and religion," said Breitenbach. "By identifying 

2000 elections. 
"I think the year 2000 is going to be an extraordinary cam­paign," Roos said. 
Roos advised students to pick a political party and go with it. 
"Nobody ever got hung for what they did at 19," Roos stat­ed. "Just go with your gut, even if the odds aren't in their favor." 
Roos encouraged all students to take advantage of the great learning experience offered in campaign volunteering. And he advised those government stu­dents dreaming of a life of cam­with every culture and reli­gion, we want members of the community to feel comfortable with the therapies that we pro­vide." 
In the June 24, 1996, issue of Time Magazine, a poll report­


paigning to "think politically, and think ahead." 
Cooney and Kiwala spoke about their organizations' efforts 
i(~hee~r VllCJz,es o!' to increase campus political activity and awareness. 
"Contemporary Hair Styles 7 Days A Week" 

1181 South Bend Ave. South Bend, IN 46637 

Juniors in Accountancy 
Deadline to submit a resume for the 
\

Junior Accountancy 
(219) 271 .. 7674
\ 
Eurotan Tanning Beds

Resume Book Tuesday, November 25, 
1997 

Career and Placement Services Basement of the Hesburgh Library 


Wednesday, November 19, 1997 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
• WORLO NEWS BRIEFS 
Albright meets with Pakistani refugees 
PESHAWAR, Pakistan 

Against the backdrop of a dusty plain near this remote corner of Pakistan, Madeleine Albright listened intently as a group of luckless young Afghan women talked in somber tones about their fate as refugees. "We are tired of our lives in exile," one wdl-han told the U.S. secretary of state Tuesday. Another spoke of the pain of being virtually destitute despite an advanced education in finance and eco­nomies. Another told how her life had taken a fateful turn the day thieves broke into the family home in Afghanistan. She fled but her sister died when she leaped from a sixth-floor window trying to escape. As a woman and a two-time refugee her­self, once from Nazism and once from com­munism, Albright could identify with these star-crossed Afghans -but only to a point. "It's very hard for me to sit here to com­pare myself to you; I have been very lucky, as have my friends," Albright said after hearing tlw tales of six women. The six were among about 15 women, all clad in traditional Islamic lHJad covers, who met with Albright on a cloudless afternoon at the Nasir Bagh refugee village. 
FBI: No foul play in TWA crash 
NEW YORK 

After scrutinizing more than 1 million pieces of wreckage, conducting 7,000 inter­views and spending up to $20 million, the FBI officially pulled out of the probe into TWA Flight 800 Tuesday, saying the explo­sion was not caused by a criminal act. Investigators also released a CIA video sim­ulation of the jet's last minutes to back up their conclusion that what witnesses thought was a missile hitting the plane was actually burning, leaking fuel from the front part of the jet after it had already broken . "We ran out of things to do" Assistant FBI Director James Kallstrom said at a news conference." Following 16 months of unprecedented investigation ... we must now report that no evidence has been found which would indicate that a criminal act was the cause." The Associated Press reported last Wednesday that the FBI had told families of the 230 victims that it would suspend the probe, turning the investigation over to the National Transportation Safety Board. The NTSB, which has hearings scheduled for next month. has indicated no probable cause will be declared until late 1998. TWA Flight 800 had just left Kennedy Airport for Paris on July 17, 1996, when its center fuel tank exploded, killing everyone. 

-7.97 Volume:

7643.82 622,248,600 
BIGGEST PERCENTAGE GAINERS 

Meadowbook Rt•ha MHRK 50.00 +.875 2.625 Visigenic Software USGN 47.619 +2.500 7.750 Zonagen Inc ZNG 31.373 N/A 33.500 Canisr.:o Res CAi':R 28.571 +.500 2.250 Moore Handley MHCO 28.571 +.750 3.375 
BIGGEST PERCENTAGE LOSERS 

Focus Enhance . WT FCSEW 30.00 -.750 1.750 Best way Inc. B5TW 26.83 -2.750 7.500 University BNCEP UNIB 25.00 ·1.500 4.500 Amero United 6-WT AUGIW 2:i.Hl -.625 2.000 Parts Source Inc. ACEP 21.88 -.625 2.313 





Bus Crashes in India 
Twenty-eight children killed, 67 others injured 
Associated Press 

NEW DELHI, India 
Navy divers and fishermen searched in the shallow waters of a river in New Delhi for more than 20 school children believed to be missing in Tuesday's bus accident that left 28 young passengers dead and 67 others injured, a local official said. 
Sahib Singh Verma, New Delhi's chief minister told reporters at least 20 children were missing hours after the early morn­ing accident. He said the bus was carrying nearly twice its capacity of 60, with 112 children ranging from primary to high school age, a driver, a custodian and three teachers, when it plunged into theYamuna River. 
Witnesses said the driver was speeding and was in a race with another bus when the accident happened. Children who sur­vived the plunge told a local television network they has asked the driver to slow down, but he did not. Verma put the death toll at 28 raising it from the earlier figure of 26. 
Divers, police and volunteers in seven boats searched for more dead and injured. Divers used nets to pull small children clad in school uniforms -girls in white tunics and blue sweaters, boys in white pants and shirts -from the shallow, muddy water, then draped them over their shoulders and ran to waiting ambulances. School officials visited homes to determine whether some children may have swum to shore and walked home on their own. 
The school had no list of the students traveling on the bus. Most of the injured were treated for minor injuries and released. 
Four, including the driver, remained hospitalized Tuesday afternoon. The nar­row hospital corridors were crowded with wailing parents trying to find copies of the casualty list. Outside, about a 100 school children gathered and shouted slogans against the principal of the public school, which was located nearby, for allowing the bus to run overloaded. 
"We have complained a lot of times (about overloading), but nothing was done," said Ravi Kumar who lost his daughter. 
Kumar blamed the school's principal for the accident, the Press Trust of India news agency reported. Verma launched an investigation into the cause of the acci-dent and ordered the suspension of the school's principal and the police officer in charge of traffic in the area. 

"If negligence is proven, strict action will be taken against those involved," the chief minister said. 
II. P .S. Saran, a police officer at the scene of the accident, said the bus had been driving fast close to the edge of the bridge just before skidding on the sandy road, crash­ing through railings and plunging into the river. 

Crisis continues, Iraq rejects U.S. peace proposal 
Associated Press 

BAGHDAD, Iraq 
Iraq is not a camp of refugees, Saddam Hussein's government said Tuesday as it rejected a U.S. offer to ease economic sanctions and help end a crisis over U.N. weapons inspections. 
Iraqi officials said the 3-week-old crisis will continue until the United Nations accepts Iraq's conditions for the resumption of U.N. weapons inspections in the country, including a balanced composition of the inspection team. Iraq says American inspectors dominate the team. 
"We adhere to our requests and demands, because they are fair just and fully justified," said Foreign Minister Mohammed Alseed al­Sahhaf. 
Saddam expelled the six American weapons experts on the U.N. inspection team Thursday, prompt­ing the remaining 68 non-American inspectors to withdraw in protest. The moves halted the U.N. program to monitor the disposal of Iraq's weapons of mass destruction and chemical weapons. 
Until inspectors certify that Iraq is free of such weapons, the United Nations will not lift crippling economic sanctions imposed after Iraq invaded Kuwait in 1990, spark­ing the 1991 Persian Gulf War. 
Iraq also began rationing cooking gas to the public Tuesday, fearing U.S. air strikes on the oil refineries that produce natural gas. In addition, thousands of Iraqis continued to gather at factories, forming "human shields" to lessen the likelihood of American strikes on those facilities. 
About 2,500 women and children camped out at a weapons factory outside Baghdad on Tuesday. Children wrote "Down with America" in chalk on_the factory floor, heeding a call by Iraqi law­makers who did the same thing Monday on the sidewalk outside parliament. 
"We want them (Americans) off our backs and we want the sanc­tions lifted," Leila Mohammed, 21, a college student, told reporters who government officials took on a tour of the factories. 
U.S. National Security Adviser Sandy Berger said Tuesday that Washington favored improving an existing oil-for-food program that allows Iraq to sell some oil every six months to buy food and medicine. 
"We are not a camp of refugees that Sandy Berger will give us small food" al-Sahhaf said. "We will not accept it." 
Berger said the U.S. position was not an inducement for Iraq to allow U.N. inspectors back, but said Washington would be in favor of allowing Iraq to sell more oil once Saddam "comes into compliance." 

~---­
page 6 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT Wednesday, November 19, 1997 

litve away your coat... and 


SHARE THE WARMTH. 
FACTS AND 
FIGURES ON 

POVERTY AND 
AMERICA's 

WoRKING PooR 
* 
Fastest grow­ing segment of homeless popu­lation: families and children. 

* 
The growth in the working grew by 4 between 19 and 1990, all which were accounted for by the growth of female working poor. 


* In 1992, 21% of all children were poor, with 46% of African­American chil­dren and 39% of Hispanic young­sters living in poverty. 
* In 1993 the bottom 20% of households received only 3.6% of lJ.S. income while the top 20% amassed 48.2%, the widest gap since the Census Bureau started keeping track in 194 7. The top 5% of households earn 21% ofthe
.
Income. 


SOCJAL CONCERNS 
ATING UP AGAIN! 

Also, 201 


und the sta­
and 22. 


Hammes Bookstore STUDENT AcnvJTms 



COMMUNITY SERVICE 
SUJiPORf SERVICES 


page 7 

Wednesday, November 19, 1997 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS 
Opposition to the Execution of Gary Burris 
Indiana has reset the execution date for Gary Burris for November 20, 1997. Please join us in protesting this unnecessary spread of violence in our world! 
"What you do to these men you do to God.'' --Mother Theresa on visiting death row 
Should we just talk about saints or should we listen to their words and act on what we believe? The time to act is now! Please send letters and/or faxes to Governor O'Bannon letting him know that you oppose the death penalty in all cases. Urge the Governor to commute Gary's sentence to life in prison. He has the power to act--it is our task to let him know what action he should take! 
Governor Frank O'Bannon 
206 State House 
200 W. Washington 
Indianapolis, IN 46204 
Fax: 317-232-3443 
"We seek a society ofjustice, not vengeance and violence. We believe a determined, though compassionate, response to crime that forgoes the violence ofthe death penalty is more consistent with respect for all human life. It will better protect the rights ofall persons., --Joseph Cardinal Bernardin • 
If efforts to stop this execution are unsuccessful, a prayer vigil will be held in the Notre Dame Law School Lounge beginning at 
11:30 PM, November 19, 1997. The vigil will be followed by a candlelight march to the grotto for further prayer and reflection. Please plan to come and stand with us as we create a witness for peace and nonviolence. Also, there will be a group making the 45 minute drive to the Indiana State Prison in Michigan City for an on-site protest. Please contact Sr. Kathleen Beatty at 631-6575 if you are interested in going with the group. 
"Wherever there is distress which one cannot remove, one must fast and pray., --Mahatma Gandhi 
In order to prepare ourselves for the prayer vigil, and to include those who are unable to attend, we are encouraging all who support us to fast the day preceding the execution. From 12:01 AM November 19 until after the vigil we will fast to bring unity to our group and our purpose and to remind ourselves that we are people fed by the spirit. 
"We cannot do everything, and there is a sense ofliberation in realizing that. This enables us to do something, and do it very 
well. It may be incomplete, but it is a beginning, a step along the way, an opportunity for the Lord's grace to enter and do the 
rest." --Archbishop Oscar Romero 
We can make people stop and think! We can plant the seeds of change! Join us! 
Sponsored by the Center for Civil and Human Rights 
ou be well-endowed to get our attention. 

Just Write. 
Scholastic Magazine 

303 LaFortune Center Notre Dame, IN 46556 holastic.scholast 1 @ndedu 
letters for next fssue due by 5 p.m, December 1, 1997 

DID YO 
•

Is-tL IS Notre DaiDe 


Are we Gender Inclusive? 
Contact the 7f/~ 4-if:~ ee~ete~t: 

Tomorrow's execution fuels panel discussion 
By ARIANN BUTLER News Writer 
In light of tomorrow's sched­uled execution of Gary Burris, a Michigan City, Ind., inmate, 
-last night's panel discussion on Christian perspectives towards the death penalty had p~rticular relevancy. Panel members included Scott Leaman, president of Amnesty International at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College; Maria Oropeza, the interim director of Multicultural Affairs; Garth Meintjes, associate director of the center for civil and human rights; Pam Cornell and Nora Meany, Saint Mary's students who have corresponded with death row inmates; and Father Joe Lanzalaco Burris' spiritual advisor and a minis­ter to other death row inmates. Arguments opposing the death penalty and personal experiences with death row inmates were some of the many issues shared by the panel. Meintjes argued that the death penalty ultimately does not deter violent crime. He supported this argument by describing countries who have abolished the death penalty and subsequently did not wit­ness an increase in crime. "The problem with [the death penalty] is that it lasts so long," Leaman said. Leaman expounded on the fact that once the death penal­ty is enforced, it is irre­versible. He cited the cases of 

23 executed criminals who, after their deaths, were later found innocent of the charges against them. 
Leaman also brought up a particular irony in Burris' ·case; according to Leaman, while the State of Indiana can­not find Burris' birth certifi­cate, a symbol of his existence in the world, the state does have the power to sentence him to death. 
Meany described her experi­ence with the death penalty issue which has occurred on a very personal level. As part of a class assignment, Meany wrote a letter to a death row inmate and subsequently car­ried on a correspondence for several weeks with that per­
50Th 

She said that she was enlightened. through the let­ters of the prisoner, 'to see criminals as human beings, instead of only within the con­text of their crimes. 
"I read about much fear and so much pain in those letters," Meany said. 
"This is their tag," Lanzalaco said of the crimes the inmates committed. "They are known only for the most horrible thing they have done in their lives. 
"We should speak in truth and act in truth whether we see truth or not." 
Meintjes concluded his argu­ments against the death penalty by noting that it costs the state more money to implement the death penalty than to keep an individual in prison for life. 





VIEWPOINT 
page 8 Wednesday, November 19, 1997 
THE OBSERVER 
NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1997-98 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Brad Prendergast 
Managing Editor 
Jamie Heisler 
Assistant Managing Editor 
D>n Cichalski 

News Editor............................Heather Cocks Viewpoint Editor ....................... Kelly Brooks Sports Editor .................................. Mike Day Accent Editor ........................... Joey Crawford Saint Mary's Editor ........................ Lori Allen Photo Editor ........................... Katif' Kroener 
Business Manager Tom Roland 
Advertising Manager ............................. Jed Perers Ad Design Manager..................... Jennifer Breslow Production Manager......................... Mark DeBoy Systems Manager .........-.............. Michael Brouillet Controller............................................ Kyle Carlin 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies ofthe administration ofeither instirucion. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Sports Editor, Accent Editor, Saint Mary's Editor, Photo Editor, and Associate News Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Columns present the views of the aurhors, and not neces­sarily those ofThe Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's community and to all readers. The free expression of varying opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 

Editor-in-Chief  631-4542  Business Office  631-5313  
Managing Editor  631-4541  Advc::rcising  63!-6900/8840  
News/Photo  631-5323  Systems  63!-8839  
Sports  631-4543  Office Manager  631-7471  
Accent/Saint Marv's  631-4540  Fax  631-6927  
Day Editor/Viewpoint  6.31-5303  Viewpoint E-Mail  Viewpoint.! @nd.edu  
General Information  631-747!  Ad E-Mail  observer@daiWin.cc.nd.edu  
• AWAKENINGS  

Clinton Finds Himself In Corner Again 

President Clinton suffered his most severe legislative defeat since the collapse of his National Health Security proposal in 1994 last week when he failed to secure the necessary House votes to pass "fast­track" trade authority. Under the bill, Congress would only have the power to accept or reject a trade agreement, rather than amend it-much like the presidential veto operated before the adoption of the line-item veto. Clinton will be the first president since Ford to lack the authority to negotiate trade agreements without the threat of congressional amendments. 
The ramifications of fast-track's failure will be deep-felt. It will be difficult for the president to negotiate credibly given that each provision of a trade agreement will be subject to amendment. The negotiation process will be slowed markedly and trade partners will be hesitant to come to the table given the president's lack of authori­ty. No doubt that the U.S. trade position will be dampened, though the verdict is still out as to how much and what kind of effect it will have on the domestic and international economies. 
One thing is certain, however: Clinton's political credibility has been damaged at home, and he faces a stiff challenge in the coming legislative session. The president who several credit with salvaging a deci­mated Democratic Party after the 1994 "Republican Revolution" (myself included), is politically crippled. He is no longer his party's legislative leader; and to make mat­ters worse, the spirit of bi-partisanship which he ushered in, is dissipating hastily. 
Clinton pulled out all the stops on fast­track, falling less than 10 votes shy. Both he and Vice President Gore lobbied relent­lessly to the last minute, resorting to offer­ing his Democratic counterparts in the House direct White House assistance in the 1998 election. The 80 percent of House Democrats who opposed the President were unmoved by the enticement of his offers. After a Republican sweep in the gubernatorial and mayoral elections two weeks ago, and Democratic congressional vulnerability in 1994 and 1996, they real­ized that this president has no coattails to latch onto. The liberal-base of the party chose to defy their president and hold their ground. 
The liberal Democratic wing has revital­ized its own legitimacy and sent a message that they will no longer be held captive to Hepublicans scored no such victory when fast-track died -in fact the issue also raised questions about the cohesiveness of their party. However, the fracture among Democrats is deeper and more critical. The upcoming legislative session, the mid­year election, and the inside jockeying for the 2000 presidential nomination may 
=================~rove to be a struggle to navigate the Party's direction as it heads into the next century. The stability and leadership of the Democratic Party seem wholly at stake. Though Dick Gephardt, the vpcallcadcr of the liberal-wing, poses little threat of actu­
J.P. 

Cooney 
ally gaining the 2000 nomination, he and his liberal colleagues do hold a trump card of sorts in their back pockets -no nomi­
------========-----Jlee will pass muster without at least their 
the New Democrats' right-leaning modera­tion. However, the outcome of trade debates, which invariably prove divisive in both parties, do not indicate leftist ascen­dancy -the politics of the center will con­tinue to prevail on fiscal issues such as taxes and spending. Nonetheless, the Left proved its potency by taking fast-track to the mat, and has secured the favor of labor and environmentalists, two vital interest groups in the approaching election season. 
The last time a fracture like this occurred in the Democratic Party was in the spring of 1994, when liberals in Congress chose to renounce their support of Clinton's National Health Security Act and pursue a single-payer model for deliv­ery of health services. The moderate and liberal Democrats' inability to coordinate their efforts to procure expanded coverage for the uninsured resulted in a failure to achieve even modest reform of a debilitat­ed system. This was not only a policy fail­ure for the Democrats, but a major politi­cal one as well. The result was the loss of the House and Senate for the first time in decades. 
The difference between the failure on health care and the withdrawal of fast­track is that the Republicans gained a political victory by killing reform. The grudging approval. Should Clinton fail to calm the Left's discontent and reaffirm some core Democratic principles which he appears to have abandoned, the breach in the party will intensify. Such a heightening of internal strife may result in another mid-term electoral debacle; and it may cost the Democrats the White !louse in 2000. 
The stakes for Democrats during the next legislative session are high. If Clinton continues to alienate the Left by declaring issues sueh as fast-track "no brainers" and accusing them of pandering to labor, he runs the risk of fatally disjointing the very party he salvaged after 1994. Again embattled and weakened, Clinton faces the challenge of relevancy. With few allies among the Democrats and rising Hepublican partisanship, Clinton must make amends with the liberal-base to suc­cessfuily coordinate the 'Democrats' legisla­tive and electoral efforts. The future of his party, and the legacy of his presidency, depend on him doing so. 
J.P. Cooney is a junior economics and government major living in Knott Hall. His column appears on Wednesdays. lie can be reached at Joseph.P.Cooney.6@nd.edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


• DOONESBURY GARRY TRUDEAU 
• llUOTE Or THE DAY 
"An idea that is not dangerous is unworthy of being called an idea at all." 
-Oscar Wilde 


·~~------~-----------~ 


VIEWPOINT
Wednesday, November 19, 1997 page 9 

• lETTER TO THE EDITOR 
Can Business be Held Responsible for Human Rights? 

I'm writing regarding the former CEO of Texaco who spoke Thursday night at COBA as part of a' series on business ethics_ 
His speech managed to ignore some of the most important criteria in deter­mining whether business is socially responsible, By relating anecdotes, telling jokes, and focussing on sub­servient issues, he managed to ignore the truly critical questions_ 
Should busine~ investing money in countries that systematically abuse the human rights of their citizens and whose democratically elected govern­ment (who won 82 percent of the vote) calls for economic sanctions on the defacto ruling dictatorship? Well Texaco was involved in a gas drilling project in one such dictatorship: Burma, where hundreds of thousands of people have been forced to work for the government, including on a project to build a pipeline that will be used to export Texaco's gas. Recently, follow­ing the lead of companies like Pepsi, Hcinekcn, and others who've given in due to bad press from the Free Burma movement, Texaco sold its investment. Other companies like Unocal and Total are still involved in the billion dollar pipeline which when finished will pro­vide crucial export earnings to finance military repression, DeCrane didn't say anything about Burma. 
Should business be held responsible for genocide of indigenous people and environmental destruction? Texaco's operations in Ecuador have led to such results_ Twenty billion gallons of toxic waste have been dumped in the Oriente rainforest since 1972. and in one area the population of Cofan Indians has fallen from 70,000 to 3,000. He didn't say anything about Latin America or the environment. 
Should business be responsible for how it treats its workers, its con­sumers. and its surroundings? Texaco is member of a misleadingly named Global Climate Coalition which is an arm of industry that is spending $30 million lobbying president Clinton, try­ing to convince him to not favor cutting carbon dioxide emissions at the upcom­ing global summit in Kyoto in December. Texaco is actively support­ing global warming. With multi­national corporations increasingly moving production overseas to coun­tries where people arc paid a couple dollars a day, unions are de facto banned, and environmental regulations are weak. we need to ask if this "push to the bottom" is ethical? 
As a member of Students for 
Environmental Action and a strong 
supporter of human rights, inviting a 
former CEO of Texaco to talk about 
social responsibility is about as helpful 
as inviting the Grand Dragon of the 
KKK to talk about race. Actually it's 
worse, since most people, despite the 
leaflets I passed out at the speech, are 
unaware of but a minute fraction of 
Texaco's crimes and risk being misled. 
Given all this, a cynic might say Alfred DeCrane's invitation to speak was more in recognition of his recent $1.5 million gift to Notre Dame (see 
p.l 7 of the Autumn 1997 Notre Dame magazine). then for anything construc­tive he had to add to the debate. 
Aaron Kreider 
Graduate Student 
7B O'Hara Grace 
November 17, 1997 

• THE MIGHTY OAK 
Environn1ental Spirit and Beauty Transcend Religion, Culture 
W
alking around campus during the height of the Fall and taking in the fiery leaves glowing in the wet, it's a hard heart that doesn't feel a lingering sentimen­tality over their passing, and a harder one still that doesn't feel a need to conserve the trees that bear them, I feel this need, It seems quite sane to feel this need_ Must I be a Christian to feel this sane need? 
In a Nov. 3 article in the Viewpoint sec­
tion of The Observer, Aaron Kheriaty claims that Christianity "is the only sane solution to take in solving environmental problems." I am perplexed by this. In a world of so much cultural variety and so many ethical systems, what makes Christianity the transcendent ethic for defining humanity's relationship with the environment? Kheriaty does not provide 
a clear proof for his claim. Is he implying 
that all other ways of looking at the envf­Kheriaty mentions? Does he mean some ronmental problem are worthless insani­sort of animistic religion in which trees ty? and stones are supposed to have spirits? 
I can think of few groups with as dolor­I do not think this would be an accurate ous an environmental record as the assessment of the majority of environ­Christian West. While European civiliza­mentalists, but if it is, more power to the tion was slowly developing in situ, many animists. They certainly respect their pieces of the biota were lost or greatly world. Maybe trees and stones do have reduced, but the elasticity of the ecosystem spirits, it is hard to tell. The world would 
preserved its general integrity. When probably be better off with more animists European colonialism swept through the than with fewer. Nature worship as rest of the world, ecosystems hitherto iso­awestruck reverence for the complexity lated from conventions of European civi­and beauty of the world, however, would 
lization were suddenly besieged. fit the resume of most environmentalists. 
One might expect from Kheriaty's char­Thank God for that. Someone who has acterization that scores of unenlightened this sort of profound respect for some­pagans would have been busy raping and thing cares more about preserving it. 
plundering their environments in these Kheriaty writes, "without Christianity, uncolonized lands, engaging in whatever one cannot proceed sanely because one insane and illogical ethical systems they will either want to eradicate tigers, or held to be true. And then the Christian become sentimental about tigers." colonials would ride in on the white horse Apparently the greed-mongering pillagers 
of reason and stop the destruction and have an active desire to eradicate tigers, deliver God's Creation from the hands of and the mainstream environmentalists 
the wicked. But lo! Such was not the case. are sentimental about them. What does Vast wildernesses, only slightly altered by sentimental mean? He goes on, "Both 
indigenous groups, were thrust under the result in disaster; the first solution ends plow and the ax, and intricacies which had in a world without tigers, the second, in a evolved over million of years were thrown world without humans." into ruin by the (egad!) Christian colonials. The peoples whose cultures were Ithink the first solution would end in destroyed by the colonials subsequently fell a world without tigers and without into the same trap of environmental idiocy. humans and be a disaster indeed_ If 
In what I believe to be a great paradox, we are callous and careless enough to the wondrous work of God, a natural world destroy the tiger, we are probably on a of unfathomable complexity and indescrib­path that will make the planet unfit for able beauty, was felled and rowcropped our own kind some day. But why is ~enti­and covered with concrete by humanity in mentality over the tiger a disaster, and the name of God's greater glory. How does how does this lead to no humans? A little this logically work? How even does the sentimentality would probably do good to most beautiful of churches, reared on the bolster our conviction to save tigers, as ruins of a forest created by God, speak long as it does not color our actions with more to His glory than that which preced­illogic; i.e. as long as we do not wreck the ed it, the work of the Creator Himself? whole in an attempt to save the tigers How can humanity in its presumption and because they are pretty. As to there egocentrism claim that God's work can be being no humans, I cannot see it. Blinded bettered by its own hand, and even then in by sentimentality, we will let the tigers 
the name of His glory?' This is a strange twist on the folly of hubris rather than the fulfillment of God's plan. The architecture of a prairie or forest is much more beautiful and complex than the architecture of a church; if it is not, we have created something more beautiful than what God has created. 
Kheriaty acknowledges the poor environmental records of many Christians. He makes the excellent point that Christianity has been misinterpreted by those who use it to justify humanity's subjugation of the earth. I suppose the roots of the human-nature relationship in Christian doctrine are laid down in Genesis. Man is given dominion over the earth and all its creatures. But what does this mean? Unrestrained pillaging is one interpretation, and seemingly the most popular throughout history; doubtless the one that pre­vailed in the settlement of this country. I agree with Kheriaty that a more correct interpretation would be stewardship­careful use with long-term conservation in mind_ But since when has Christianity properly-interpreted been the only phi­losophy to espouse wise and sustainable use of natural resources? 
Not being an expert on religion, I will go out on a limb and guess that many Eastern religions state this same ethic more clearly and forcefully. And what of the Native American reli­gions, which show an unfailing reverence for nature? And the Aboriginal Australians, whose emphasis on man as part of the natural community rather than its overlord is legendary? All insane because they are not Christian. 
Kheriaty seems to believe there are three positions on the environment: the mainstream environmental movement, which is "pantheistic, new-aged tinged nature worship; the greedy materialists who plunder for profit; and the Christians, who have the only real answer. 
Kheriaty's characterization of mainstream environmentalists is ridiculous. The greater part of this group are concerned people of science who perceive the present crisis through careful eyes that have been cured by training and experience. 
run free, they will soar to uncontrollable numbers, develop a taste for human flesh, and eat us all, I guess. The true Christian would have the tiger serve him, pull a plow or something. That is God's plan and the only sane recourse. 
The great naturalist Aldo Leopold, often cited as one of the fathers of the conservation movement, suggested it was time for humankind to develop a "land ethic." He considered this a natural extension of the ethics of the human-human relation­ship and the human-society relationship, a progressive step in the evolution of our morality. Leopold pointed out that the rudiments of such an ethic already existed in society, and that a fully formed ethic often blossomed in individuals, but Western society as a whole had not adopted the notion. 
There were always efforts to conserve, but these were selec­tive and based on the economic value of the "resource," not its intrinsic worth. Leopold said these conservation decisions must be based on philosophical value if ecological disaster was to be averted. Economics aside, he contended that it is wrong to perpetrate acts that compromise the integrity of an ecosys­tem. The case for this conviction has only strengthened over time, as science becomes increasingly aware of the amazing interconnectedness of things. 
As Kheriaty says, environmental degradation is primarily a moral problem. But there are other moral solutions than the one which grows out of interpretation of Christian scripture. And this is not to make light of Christian scripture. There is definitely the seed of a conservation ethic therein that can be developed to a beautiful degree if it is nourished from the out­side instead of stifled and forced in on itself. It is short-sighted to say that Christianity "is the only sane approach." A broad­er, more inclusive ethic must be espoused. 
Sean O'Connor '97 is a .first-year graduate student living off campus. He can be reached at Sean.B.O'Connor.43@nd.edu. The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
There is, of course, a smaller radical element which grabs a lion's share of the coverage because that is the nature of the news. And the new age current in our society does seep into the movement, bringing with it some of the nature convictions of the Native American and Eastern religions, But this is a refreshing injection into a society long-dominated by Western views which, while not necessarily bad, are certainly not infal­
lible. A better solution can be synthe­
sized when many perspectives are con­sidered. Bring in as many philosophies as possible. (Unfortunately, much of this new age phenomena might be more of a 

Sean 
fad than a real conviction. Eastern and Native American perspectives on man and nature belong in the environmental 


O'Connor 
movement, aliens and power crystals do not.) What exactly is this "nature worship" 


~---~-----~~----. 


;ACCENT 
Wednesday, November 19, 1997
page 10 


By JANICE WEIERS 
Saint Mary's Accent Writer 

T
aking a shot of saki at a bar does not count ~s a cult.ural. expe­rience. Neither does the Macarena. Culture IS expenencmg something foreign and remembering what happened the next day. And the next week. It will seep into your attitude and affect the way that you live your life and interpret new things. 
Theatre is culture. Or at least part of it. The more diverse one's experiences are, from music to movies and theatre to dance, the more diverse the person. 
It's time to steer from the monotony of the ethanol-polluted city of South Bend and take a road-trip to the theatrically-blessed city of Chicago. 
The Windy City offers a multitude of shows in an array of venues to please any age. Some theatres are reputable and more traditional while others offer an unconventional twist to the theatre, but they all promise an enjoyable cultural experience. 
Three decades ago, Gary Sinease had a hand in the founding of the Steppenwolf Theatre. The professional theatre company is currently hosting "Space," an up-lifting drama in which a man and woman challenge contemporary systems of thought to find new faith. 
"A Christmas Carol" is currently taking center stage at the 72-year-old Goodman Theatre -Chicago's first 

L___________________J and largest not-for­
profit theatre. 

Musicals are stealing the show at two of Chicago's most popular the­atres. Feet are tapping in the Chicago Theatre to the tunes of Disney's heart-warming "Beauty and the Beast." While shoes in the Shubert Theater are moving to the more serious beat of "Rent," a smile-pro­ducing and Tony Award-winning story of starving artists struggling to 
fairly acceptable in these venues, singing along 1c would not be welcomed in such reputable theatres. Tone deaf or not. 
While the artists continue to starve at the Shubert Theatre, the Irish continue to dance in the Auditorium Theatre. "Riverdance," the spirited and popular celebration of Irish song and dance will have you wishing that your last name was Murphy and your dad wore a kilt. This is the same type of Irish folk dance which inspired "Lord of the Dance," so you're sure to get a great show. 
Whether you are Irish or not, holidays are a time for festivity. Like eggnog. Spiked or not, drink it however you fancy. "The Nutcracker," which is playing at the Arie Crown Theatre this 
' 


season could also leave you with a warm feeling. 
And why should you go to see "The Merchant of Venice" at the Shakespeare Repertory Theater? Because it is Shakespeare's most controversial play, that's why. It's also interesting to note that this Shakespearian play is set in the Roaring Twenties. 
Some longer-running shows at lesser-known theatres are highly rec­ommended also. "Always, Patsy Cline," is showing at the Victory Gardens Theatre, 
and will provide the audience with 25 songs by Cline. No heavy hearts will leave this theatre. While in the neigh­borhood, you might pay respects to another musi­cal legend. "The Buddy Holly Story" is playing at the Apollo Theatre just a few doors down. 
If you have never been to a performance with no dialogue, "Blue Man Group" will definitely have an impact on you. The three cobalt-blue members have sold out performances in New York City and Boston and have been featured on MTV. Now they are now strutting their stuff in Chicago's Briar Street Theatre. It's very similar to "Stomp," which 
swept the nation last year. Whether you find the different style thrilling or not, the point is, you are experiencing. This is culture, folks. 

Accent's Handy Theatre List 
Steppenwolf Theatre Company 
SJ!ace 
1650 N. Halsted St. (312)335-1650 
Goodman Theatre 
A Christmas Carol 
200 S. Columbus Drive 
(312) 443-3800 
Chicago Theatre 
Beau~ and the Beast 
175 . State St. 
(312) 902-1500 
Schubert Theatre 
Rent 
22 W. Monroe (312) 902-1500 

Arie Crown Theatre 
The Nutcracker 

2300 S. Lake Shore Drive (312)555-1212 
Shakespeare RepertoryTheatre 
The Merchant ofVenice 
1016 N. Dearborn 
(312) 642-2273 

Victory Gardens Theatre 
Alwa1J, Patsy Cline 
2257 . Lincoln Ave (773) 871-3000 
A~ollo Theatre 

T, e Buddy Holly Story 
2540 N Lincoln Ave (773) 935-6100 

Neo-Futitorium 

Too Much Light Makes The Baby Go Blind . 5153 N. Ashland~ (773) 878-4557 
ComedySportz 
Come1J.Sportz
3209 . Halsted 
(773) 549-8080 
Annoyance Theatre 
Pigs is Pigs, Co-Ed Prision Sluts, Screw PuClpies 
3747 N. lark (312) 929-6200 

Briar Street Theatre 
Blue Man Group
3133 N. Halsted (773) 348-4000 
Royal George Cabaret Theater 
Forever Plaid 
1641 N. Halsted 
(312) 988-9000 
Ivanhoe Theatres 
Hellcab, Late Night Catechism, 
B.S. As We Like It 
750 W. Wellititon 
(773) 975-71 
Mayfair Theatre 
Shear Madness 
636 S. Michi~an Ave 
(312) 786-91 0 



The improvisational sensation, "ComedySportz" is a performance in the complex ComedySportz. This is a hilarious competition between two teams of comedi­

in the fast-paced field of improv. 
The Free Associates is another comedy must-laugh 
performance. A few spoofs are currently on stage at 
e Ivanhoe Theater. "As We Like It: Shakespeare in 
our Face" makes fun of the Bard (including royalty 
nd fairies) from Shakespeare in a fun-humoured 
"B.S.," a spoof on the popular television show 
.R., depicts doctors of Benevolent Saints hospital 
uggling to maintain both private and professional 
. Hilarious. 
The Annoyance Theatre is the place to be just that. 
noying. Audience is permitted, if not encouraged, to B.Y.O.B as 
as smoke freely during the productions. This is also the case at 
he Vic Theatre Brew and View, where independent flicks are screened by the 18 and over crowd. Complete with an open bar. 
Be sure to hook your tickets in advance, since many of these the­atres have reserved seating and can sell out often. The number for Ticketmaster is (312) 559-1212. 
if you're going to do it, you might as well do it right, right? 
You'll find that many of the theatres in the downtown area have excellent restaurants in the vicinity. One of the places definitely 
Brandon and Kelly pick charges for the stolen s<r.t.ns11iea•:ttl left of the stolen goods. Back at the B£werty 8e{tti"Br~tiidob.· streets, but doesi1'tinclude her district attorney, Deborah Mills.·. refl.tses. 
At Erica's apartment we find that tho pimp, Riggs. Brandon calls the with a dramatic, "No more!" The it because he thinks Dylan would 
Deborah Mills shows up at the . source of the article, she cannot felon. 
David told his dad he is broke. to move out and take his stuffwith ing and goes to her parents' ..,"'"-• LJll 
After spending the day "'"'""'"""~ to Kelly as being ''Wow!" rnn:wtulnaltetv because Noah won't give her an • her chi~hl~et promptly reveals the kiss to David. 
shark shows up. David tries to run Noah holds a broken bottle to. the. loan :m<\;r."' ::; Somehow, I don't think a broken.bottle·Mrouldx~IC$.lc¢>t;ftft(cciup:leo guys, but that's just me. 
Later. David finds out that someone mystery man is· Noah(ou''""''"'~ Donna about NOah arid asks if · 
TONIGHT: The police have a she finds out heis worth millions .. walks in to discover Davilir.. t;; 
BWE 

least, even if the food itself might not be. 
Some Chicago sports figures have also carved a name for them­selves in the restaurant business. Michael Jordan's place can't he missed-especially with the larger-than-life image of him outside the building. Harry Carry's restaurant is also worth a trip; he makes an excellent chicken parmesian. 
All of these restaurants are moderately priced, and should be able 
to fit into a student budget. Some of these For a truly "heavenly" dinner, try Heaven on Seven. It's said to he. the best cajun food this side of New Orleans, and it's also got a ·festive eating environ­ment. It's so cool, the only nights. it's open for dinner are Friday nights. 
Of course, you must not forget the traditional Chicago dining venues. Who can leave the city with­out sampling Chicago's famous deep dish pizza? Gino's East, Giordanno's and Pizzeria Uno and Due are the three best. 
Then, there's the whole cluster of famous restau­rants that includes Hard Rock Cafe, Planet Hollywood, Carson's Ribs, and the new Rainforest Cafe. Every one of these places is entertaining at 
.. 
-
• 
-
.. ancer. Charlie Bailey
""'-''.-'-''-, bu·t 

If the spark of spontinaiety is more your speed, Ilot Tix is ready to accommodate you. Located across from Marshall Field's on State Street, llot Tix sells remaining tickets for same-day performances at a fraction of the regular price. 
Now that you've decided to take the road trip to Chicago for a healthy helping of culture, you've got to find someplace to eat. After all, 
places may cater to more indulgent tastes, 
iiiiiiiiillllli!i but they will all add to your complete Chicago theatre experience. The Chicago theatre scene is not merely a place for snooty rich people. Everybody can enjoy the rich culture the city offers. And, it's not terribly expensive. Some shows are free, and the rest are definitely over a dollar, but none are too expensive. 
So, if you have no cash and need a cultural fix, you can still reap the cultural benefits of the bright lights and the big city. 
page 12 The Observer • SPORTS Wednesday, November 19, 1997 
•NBA 

Hawks ke·ep streak with OT win 
Associated Press 
ATLANTA 
Rookie Ed Gray scored seven points in overtime as the unbeaten Atlanta Hawks ral­lied in the fourth quarter and then shut out' the Washington Wizards in the extra period for a 98-89 victory Tuesday night. 
Christian Laettner and Mookie Blaylock scored 24 points apiece for the Hawks, whose 11-0 start is the best in the NBA. Gray, a rookie play­ing in place of Steve Smith, the Hawks leading scorer who was sidelined by back problems in the second half, finished with 14. 
It was the second overtime victory this season for Atlanta, which has had only one dou­ble-digit margin of victory ­11 points -in its ·streak. The Hawks have won 10 straight ·overtime games dating to the 1994-95 season. 
Dikembe Mutombo, who made only one of eight shots through three quarters, scored 12 fourth-quarter points as the Hawks came back after trailing by 11 points with 2:20 left in the third quarter. Atlanta trailed throughout the second half until taking the lead in the final three minutes. 

Rod Strickland made two layups in the final 32 seconds to send the game into over­time, when the Wizards were outscored 9-0. 
Strickland led the Wizards with 24 points, and Juwan Howard scored 20. 
Besides 14 points, Mutombo had 11 rebounds and six blocked shots, while Laettner and Ty Corbin also had 11 rebounds each. 
Smith, with a 20.1-point average entering the game, made only two field goals in nine attempts and one of two 3-point attempts for five first­half points. 
Boston 122, Toronto 109 

Dee Brown went 4-of-4 on 3­pointers in the first half as the Boston Celtics built a 23-point lead and cruised to their fourth straight win Tuesday night, 122-109 over the slumping Toronto Raptors. 
The four-game winning streak, which includes two vic­tories over the Raptors, is the Celtics' longest since they won five straight from March 31 to April 9, 1995. Toronto has lost seven straight. 
Brown finished with 16 
points, all in the first half, and Walter McCarty scored a team-high 18 for the Celtics, who improved to 5-5 under first-year coach Rick Pitino. 
Greg Minor came off the bench to score 15 points and Antoine Walker had 14 points and a team-high 10 rebounds. 
The Celtics took control early, going on a 13-0 first­quarter run and watching the Raptors commit 12 first-half turnovers en route to a 59-38 halftime lead. 
John Wallace scored a career-high 30 points with 12 rebounds for the Raptors, who looked sluggish and uninter­ested in the wake of an announcement by general manager Isiah Thomas that he might bolt the club for a broadcasting job at NBC. 
Doug Christie scored 23 points, helping cut the Celtics' lead to 113-105 on a layup with 1:22 to play. But that's as close as the Haptors would get. 
Damon Stoudamire added 21 points and Walt Williams scored just nine, missing his first seven shots before finally nailing a 3-pointer with just under three minutes to play in the third quarter. 


The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. ar the Norre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. ro 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day clas­
sifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 

Classifieds 

NOTICES  2:30 or 2:15-3:15. Game schedule varies with games beginning after shcool at 4:00,  NICE HOMES FOR NEXT SEMESTER  674-7645.  wouldn't it be cool if we were really in italy? oh wait. two of you will be.  
5:00, or 6:00 p.m. Paid position. Call 291­ AND NEXT SCHOOL YEAR 2773097  ND FOOTBALL TICKETS  traitors!  
000 THE COPY SHOP 000  4200 to apply.  FOR SALE  
LaFortune Student Center Store Hours  HELP!!!  FOR SALE  DAYTIME#: 232-2378 EVENING #: 288-2726  melissa tanner is my hero.  
Mon.-Thur.: 7:30 a.m.-Midnight  I'm graduating in dec. and am looking for  LOW PRICES  Sorry A.J.!  
Fri.: 7:30 a.m.-7:00p.m.  person(s) to take over my babysitting job for  Near Campus -1338 Miner St.  
Sat.: Noon-6:00 p.m.  two ADORABLE, WELL-BEHAVED little  2 BR Enclosed Front Porch. New Roof,  FOR SALE  your shirt is at the dry cleaners.  
Sun.: Noon-Midnight  kids. Really fun family and  Siding & Carpet.  
(closed home football Sat's)  GOOD$$$!!! call Marie X4298  Central Air & Full Basement  N.D. G.A.'S  don antonio- 
Phone 631-COPY  $44,900 1-800-382-2952  don't even go there!  
CATERING-CALL FAZOLI'S  271-9412.  you know you loveit.  
GREAT RESUMES! Only 4 mi. from ND  277-4008  TICKETS  WANTED N D G A'S  today is big jim day. I may even turn in my  
campus on U.S. 31/33. Call (616)684-4633.  CHRISTIAN BUSINESS OPPORTUNITY  TO ALL HOME GAMES  lab for a do-nut and naked lady  
Earn a living while spreading God's word.  ND VS.W. VA TIX  271 1526  
Spring Break '98  Join Scriptures. Sign up is FREE. To  FOR SALE 273-3911 LEAVE MESSAGE  BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY  
Cancun, Jamaica, Bahamas, & Florida.  receive a FREE Info Pack call1-800-585­ 219 291 7153  
Group Discounts & Free Drink Parties! Sell  5873 option 3 and listen to "Success with  ######## For Sale #####II##  2 stud tix for sale. all home games. Call 4­ 
Trips, Earn Cash & Go Free!  Scriptures." Please leave my 1.0.#5237.  2 West Virginia student tickets  3313  Would you like a tossed salad today??????  
1-800-234-7007  (cheap!!)  
www.endlesssummertours.com  SALES/MARKETING  call Jenny @ 687-8435  For Sale: 4 VW GAs. 243-2643  no thanks, just a toss.  
Excellent opportunity. Part-time person  ########################  
Will TYPE thesis,term papers,  needed. We will work around your sched­ does anyone care about the poor leaves?  
resumes,etc. IBM & MAC-Word,  ule. Great income. Fax resume to 1-800­ 2 West Virginia GA's for sale  Two WV GA's for sale.  they look cold  
WP,Excei,Pgmkr,Ciaris,Photo  333-7562 or leave name & number at 1­ call Jen @ 687-8435 <-­ Call Shannon 4-3806  
Shop.Call LINDA 1-9468.  800-332-5643.  oh the weather outside is frightfuL.  
4 WVA GA's for SALE  
- Ever Dreamed of Your Own Business? TASP International seeks students for next  Wanted -male tutor for 17 yr old high school boy -meet twice weekly 2 hours  I need 1 GA for WV MattX1611  call Victoria @ x1073  hey why DON'T we have fireplaces here?  
summer who want entrepreneurial and  each time.  2 WV GA tickets for sale.  fred baby- 
management experience. Positive attitude a  $30 per week. Call289-5149  Great price! Call soon: 4x2641  long time no see. how's cat?  
must. Full training. Earn $8K to $10K. CALL  3 WV TIX FOR SALE  -holly  
1-800-543-3792.  ...EARN FREE TRIPS & CASH...  Chris x0786  FOR SALE: 4 GA's for WV game-x0680  
CLASS TRAVEL needs students to pro­ (leave message)  friends is a whole hour this week!  
MIXES TO CD  mote Spring Break 1998! Sell 15 trips &  
Impress your friendswith this unique gift  travel free! Highly motivated students can  Need to sell 2 WV married  and ..... ?  
idea.  earn a free trip & over $10,000! Choose  student txs. Call 288-9158  I got 2 REAL GA's for WVU -these are not  
Mixes from tapes, LP's, & CO's  Cancun, Bahamas, Mazatlan, Jamaica or  those stinkin' student trade-ins. If you want  hi tina mac and ~he PE pyros!  
Call Doron Enterprises for info.  Florida! North America's largest student  4 GA's W Virginia  them-call 634-1471  m1ss you guys...  
Steve: 288-1545 Tony: 289-3813-------------'rLOST & FOUND.... REWARD: Lost gold shamrock pin. Date  tour operator! Call Now! 1-800-838-6411 WANTED 2 JANE'S ADDICTION TICK­ETS !!!! Please help : 631-5144 or 256-1354 . Ask for lac .  $25 ea. 271-5521 FOR SALE 1 WV student tix CHEAP! call Brett @ 0773  I have 2 student section WV GA's call Brett. x3361 PERSONAL  -coli and ...... ? LD-Happy Origami Paper! ­LJ why is it that we get another window-less  
on back. Sentimental value. If found, please contact Louise at x4416.  FOR RENT  3 WV GAs 4 sale Walker x3346  ADOPTION -LOOK NO FURTHER  room? at least we got the cool hall way to work  
A newspaper ad led me to DEBBIE & MIKE  with.  
WALK TO CAMPUS  4 GA'S AND 1 STUDENT  2 years ago & I chose them to adopt my  
Found-Set of keys in DeBartolo. Call Kim  2-5 BEDROOM HOMES  4 SALE 4 WV  baby. They're wonderful parents and I  Would you like to help create a College  
•  at 4-4376.  $195/PERSON 232-2595  JASON X2010  couldn't be happier with my choice. I'm thrilled that they want to adop~again!  Libertarian group? Check out http://www.nd.edu/-prijks/liberty or call Pete  
If you have two GA's for WV and can't get  They're fun, affectionate, professional, sta­ @ 4-3256  
LOST: Sapphire ring around SOH at dinner  ROOMS IN PRIVATE HOME FOR FOOT­ rid of them, please call me. I have a friend  ble & easy to talk to. I'll gladly talk with you  
Tuesday 11/11. Please help me find it!  BALL WEEKENDS AND OTHER ND-SMC  who would love to see the game but cannot  too. (888)690-BABY or check their web site  000 THE COPY SHOP 000  
REWARD. Theresa x2146  EVENTS.  afford to buy them. Please call Shirley at 1­ at WWW.MEETUS.COM  LaFortune Student Center  
VERY CLOSE TO CAMPUS-5 MIN.  7471 before 3 pm or 272-3753 after 4 pm.  .J High-Speed Copies  
HELP!!!!!!  DRIVE OR 15-20 MIN. WALK.  Thank you. Help keep the stadium filled and  000 Looking for a unique gift?  .J Canon Color Laser Copies  
I lost my little clown! Help make the world  243-0658.  make my friend happy.,  Bring in your favorite pictures  .J Digital Color Printing  
- happy and send him home. Call Nick with info.  THAT PRETTY PLACE, Bed and Breakfast  WV GA's 4-sale. $20 O.B.O  and we'll create a personalized COLOR COPY CALENDAR!!!  .J Binding & Laminating .J Public Fax Service 631-FAX1  
P.S.­No probes.  Inn has space available for football/parent  Justin 4-1722  THE COPY SHOP  Phone 631-COPY  
wknds. 5 Rooms with private baths, $70­ LaFortune Student Center  
WANTED  $90, Middlebury, 30 miles from campus. Toll  NOTRE DAME FOOTBALL TICKETS  I think we finally got the 'P' thing. wonders  Holl, The eat's fine. A little wet though.  
Road, Exit #107,  BUY -SELL -TRADE  never cease  
Elementary-Jr HS Girls Basketball and  1-800-418-9487.  I want to go to the Final Four.  
Boys Ice Hockey Coach/s needed -respon­ .232-0058  ND Inquisition  
sible:dependable, student/grad to coach  1,2 & 3 BDRM HOMES.GILLIS PROPER­ http://rosenberg-3a.student.nd.edu  FREEBIRD!  
5th-8th grade girls basketball or boys ice  TIES.  CONFIDENTIAL  We're smarter than you.  
hockey team/s Jan-Mar. for south side inde­ TICKET-MART, INC.  If I'm a god, Katie, you're definitely a god­ 
pendent school, located near Scottsdale  272-6551  november is the best month of all.  dess.  
Mall on Miami Street. Must be available for  BUY/SELL ND SEASON AND INDIVIDUAL  
practice Mon-Thus from 1 :30­ 6 BDRM HOME NEXT FALL272-6551  GAME TICKETS.  hey lunch bunch- Goodnight everyone.  


Wednesday, November 19, 1997 The Observer • SPORTS page 13 
• CollEGE FooTBAll 

Amos Zereoue looks to go from A to Z against ND 
By BOB HERTZEL 
The Dominion Post 
It's against Notre Dame, it's on NBC across America. Is Saturday's game a Jleisman showcase for West Virginia run­ning back Amos Zereoue? 
Not this year, of course. Even though he is the sixth-leading rusher in America with 140 yards a game, Zercouc is not really a lleisman candidate in 1997 -no hype, no big TV game, too young. 
But a good performance Saturday could introduce Zcreouc to a lot of 1998 voters. A year from now he could be a legitimate candidate for the most prestigious trophy in all football. 
As usual, the second-year run­ning back downplays such talk. 
"All I can do is go out there and perform and let you guys decide if I'm worthy of the press and the awards," he said. "If you perform. everything else will fall into place. If 1 don't perform, it will be on my head." 
Somehow, though, you expect Zereoue to have one of his best games. 
First, it's against a big-name opponent, and wasn't that Miami against whom he rushed for 206 yards earlier this year? Second it's on grass, and wasn't the Miami game on grass and doesn't he love playing on grass? 
Third, and most important, he's healthy. 
Internationa I Study Programs Reminder 
DECEMBER 1, 1997 is the Application Deadline 
for 

Academic Year 1998-9 Programs 
In 

Angers, France; Innsbruck, Austria; Dublin, Ireland; Mexico City & Monterrey, Mexico; Nagoya,Japan; Toledo, Spain; 
ALL FALL 1998 Programs 
and 

Spring 1999 Programs 
Ill 

Dublin, Ireland; Fremantle, 
Australia and Toledo, Spain 
Applications and advising available in 109 Hurley Building, Tel: 631-5882 

''I'm ready to play football again," Zereoue pronounced Monday night. 
A painful turf toe injury suffered against Syracuse kept hirh out of last Saturday's meeting with Temple. 
"I didn't like standing on the sideline freezing my butt off," he admit­ted. 
But he wasn't needed and the week to heal has him saying he'll be 110 percent by game time Saturday. 
West Virginia will need him to be. Earlier this year it appeared that the Notre Dame 

encounter may be tar-Photocourtseyof West Virginia University Sports Information nished by the the team's Sophomore TB Amos Zereoue will be the Mountaineers' key rusher on Saturday. ... 
inability to win this year. ball," said Zereoue. 
ting a Jette~. frnp Notre Dame,

Bu_t under first-year coach B_ob Oddly, as good as Zereoue is-wow." ~avie the~ ?ave steadil_Y and was in high school-Notre There was no visit to South Improved, wmnmg four of their-Dame paid only a passing inter­Bend. 
last five, including last week's est in him. 
"I didn't take any of my visits upset of No. 11 LSU in Baton "I didn't know a lot about col­because I didn't have myRouge, to even their record at 5-lege football," Zereoue says scores," he said. "I regret that 5 an~ put th~mselve~ to be bowl thinking back on it. "I mean I now because I could have had a qualified With a VIctory over knew about Notre Dame but I lot of fun on those visits." . WVU· was just interested in getting my Maybe, on this visit, he can "They're not just a good name test scores up. It was neat, get­have that fun he missed. any more. They're playing good 
...,...,....................... 
> 1~otr(:J, J)ame Martial Arts Institut~ .i Tae kwon do and ·~jjtsu practice for beginners · take place from 4 to 6 p.m. 
" .ursdays and 6 to 8 p.m. tnt'Sundays in Room 213 Rockne Memorial. All are wel­come. 
Field Hockey -Practice will be on Mondays and Wednesdays from 9 to 10 p.m. in Loftus. Call Maureen at x4281 or Stephanie at x27 41 with any questions. 
Synchronized Swimming ­Practices are held on Mondays and Wednesdays from 8 to 10 
p.m.. (l.nd Sundays from 10 a.m. to.l p.m. 


SUMMER JOB OPPORTUNITIES J 
'i 
ijj 

KIDS CORPORATION 

-
. j ·~ 

• operates summer schools in Newark, NJ
,:\1 

• sponsors 6,000 children each summer to Kids Camp, an outdoor "classroom" day camp in Warren County, NJ 
·.~j 
·;~ 

• hires college students interested in the educational needs of young urban children to work in our schools or at Kids Camp 
lo;.' 

• provides room and board, three college credits in Urban Education from 
St. Vincent College, plus $125 gross per week 
.··, 
·.. 
i:= 
i 

The work is hard, the hours are long, the KIDS and SIL1EE ARE GREAT! 
j1 

The program runs from June 21 through August 15, 1998
:f1 
f~~ 

If you are interested in learning more, see us at 
The Lounge at The Center for Social Concerns Wednesday, November 19 
5:00 to 7:00p.m. (pizza provided!) 
or 

CALL US AT (908) 362-7410 NET SITE: HTTP:!/www.kidscamps.com/daycamps/Kidscamps/ 


page 14 The Observer • SPORTS Wednesday, November 19, 1997 
• MAJOR lEAGUE BASEBAll 

Arizona, Tampa Bay complete expansion draft 
Associated Press 1 choice, taking the rookie left­hander three weeks after he PHOENIX helped the Florida Marlins 
When last seen together, complete their five-year zoom Tony Saunders and Brian from expansion losers to World Anderson were pitching in the Series winners. snow during Game 4 of the "It's an honor," said World Series. Saunders, reunited with Tampa 
They were linked again Bay manager Larry Rothschild, Tuesday amid palm trees and the Marlins' pitching coach cactuses as the top two picks in until this month. "That tells me baseball's expansion draft. l must have done something 
The Tampa Bay Devil Rays right, that they wanted me made Saunders the overall No. before anybody else." 
-
The Arizona Diamondbacks made 26-year-old Brian Anderson their first round pick in Tuesday's expansion draft. 
Bad Sex -and the 

The Arizona Diamondbacks Jay Bell to a $34 million, five­lesser-known picks by the 75 followed by choosing Anderson, year contract on Monday, were supporters from both Tampa a 25-year-old left-hander not also closing in on free agent Bay and Arizona. protected by the Cleveland reliever Roberto Hernandez. At least baseball tried to Indians. The draft was held at the make the fans feel comfortable, 
"I enjoyed my time in Phoenix Civic Plaza, right decorating the hall with palm Cleveland," he said. ''I'm look­across the street from the trees and cactuses. ing forward to being on a team Diamondbacks' new Bank One Tampa Bay, given the No. 1 that's just starting out." Ballpark. Unlike the NFL draft, pick when Arizona won the coin 
Young pitching was at a pre­which sparks wild cheers and toss and elected to take the sec­mium early, and prospects far boos from the fans' gallery, ond and third choices, got off to outnumbered veterans as both there was little reaction to the a nice start with Saunders. teams made 14 picks in the first 
round. Anaheim knuckleballer Dennis Springer tTampa Bay) and White Sox catcher Jorge 
world Hunger coalition Fabregas (Arizona) were the only players over 27 years old 
THANKSGIVING BASKETS 
taken. 

Stars such as Fred McGriff, Eric Karros and Eric Davis were passed over. But there was a chance big-name players would later be among the 35 picks by each team, and that could set into motion a lot of trades. 


world Hunger Coalition, campus Ministry, & 

NL Cy Young winner Pedro 

Food Services are working together to pro­

Martinez of Montreal, Marlins pitcher Kevin Brown and 
vide good Thanksgiving Meals for south Bend 

Cleveland third baseman Matt 

families who probably wouldn't get one oth­

Williams were mentioned 
erwise.

prominently in trade specula­tion. No deals were allowed to 
But we need your help!

be announced, however, until after the draft ended, expected 

Monday, November 24th 

around 11 p.m. EST. Boston pitcher Jeff Suppan 
3-Gpm

and New York Mets pitcher Cory Lidle were taken in the 

Stepan Center 

opening round by Arizona, which will play in the NL West. 
Help put the baskets together and be there 

Colorado outfielder Quinton 
when the families come to pick them up.

McCracken and Houston out­fielder Bob Abreu were picked 
1/2 hr, 1hr, whatever you can give

by Tampa Bay, which will be in the AL East. The cash-rich Diamondbacks, 
Questions: Call Karen@ x2297 

who signed free agent shortstop 




The Jacques Maritain Center presents 
John Finnis, D.Phil. 

Prof Finnis has been Biolchini Professor of Law at Notre Dame since 1995, and is also Professor of Law and Legal Philosophy at the University of





Good of 
Oxford, where he has taught law and philosophy since 1967. He was one of the first two lay members ofthe International Theological Commission, and has worked


Marriage 
extensively on the foundations of ethics, 
and on a wide variety of life issues. 
His books include Natural Law and Natural Rights (1980, 9th printing 1997), Fundamentals ofEthics (1983), Nuclear Deterrence, Morality and Realism (1987), Moral Absolutes (1991), and Aquinas: Moral, Political, and Legal Theory (May

"Pastors who cultivate ambiguity 
1998).


about the immorality ofnon-marital 
sex do a serious injustice to all their people-not only those who will not man-y, but also all those many more who will and who, with their children, will be l1armed by their failure to u11derstand how intercourse can be truly marital." 

-ProfessorJohn Finnis 
Wednesday, November 19 Hesburgh Library Lounge • 8:00 p.m. 

the Strake Foundat1ort 
page 15

Wednesday, November 19, 1997 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT 



_I 
----~---~ -~---~-------­

W.Hoops 
continued from page 20 

defense made Butler work for every one of its points, holding the Bulldogs to just 24 percent shooting in the first half. 
"To be honest with you, that's a big part of our offense," Butler head coach June Olkowski explained. "In the last four years, we have made more free throws than our opponents have attempted." 
"They did call a pretty tight game," McMillen said about the officiating. "But we have to work through that and realize how they were calling the game." 
Integral in the Bulldog comeback was the play of Sarah Schuetz. Schuetz picked up two quick fouls in the first and only played five minutes, but in the second, she burned the Irish, finishing 
the game with 16 points in just 21 min­utes of play. "I thought she was the difference in the second half," McGraw said. 
The Bulldogs could constantly be found at the free throw line, finishing the game by connecting on 23 of 33 attempts. 
"I thought the fouling was the key to the game, and it's something we'll have to work on," Peirick said. "But we're a physical team as are they." 
A constant force for Butler through­out the game was guard Jennifer Marlow, who kept her squad close with 10 points in the first half. Marlow was the game's high scorer with 20 points, half of which came from the foul line. 
Also scoring in double figures was freshman Kelley Siemon who contin­ued to display that she will be a threat for the Irish in the post. Siemon fin­ished with 11 points and five rebounds. 
"I thought Kelley did some good things," McGraw noted. "She continued to play aggressive which is very impor­tant for a freshman. She never got tentative defensively." 
In the post, which is where the Irish have the least experience, sophomore Julie Henderson took charge scoring nine points, collecting six rebounds, and handing out five assists. 
"I thought Julie had a great game," McGraw praised. "She really played like a veteran tonight." 
Freshman forward Ruth Riley also contributed in the paint with six points and six rebounds. 
"Ruth is really going to come along for us," McGraw explained. "She is get­ting stronger and is really improved from the beginning of practice." 
Notre Dame will now travel away from the friendly confines of the Joyce Center as its next four games are on the road. The Irish will challenge the likes of Duke and UCLA before their return home to host Big East rival Connecticut on Dec. 6. 
· 
The Observer/John Daily 
Co-captains Sheila McMillen (20) and Mollie Peirick came up with key baskets in their season opener. 

-
The Observer/John Daily 
Foward Kelley Siemon snared 11 points and five rebounds againstButler. 

From 22 months to 22 years­
StJJl aStatesman! 

Happy Birthday, Son! 

-
Love, 
~!om& Dad 


··<$3:r ~••
• Marshall Field's ~·@M~.!?.~!~~~.,!:~P.n~l~<~ed p~ 
\ pie who can bring fun, mirth, mischief, and laughter to our guests. This is not a typical sales associate position but more-a public relations position where some of the 
job functions would be: 
• Greet guests and share holiday happenings A~ , throughout the store. ~ SKILLS & ABILITIES ~ 
. . REQUIRED:
• Escort guests through the s hoppmg expenence • Eff t" · h h l"d h kl" ec Jve
w1t a o 1 ay c ec 1st communication 
• Demonstrate "Random Acts ofKindness" for all skills guests and associates when not assisting guests • Problem solving with their holiday gift selections ability 
• Develop general knowledge ofthe entire store • Interactive social 
• In an energetic, upbeat manner, provide a gift skills shopping service throughout the store, either by • Ability to maintain accompanying the guest or utilizing the guest's ~ a good sense of ~ shopping list ~ humor 
~ ~ 

If you have the skills and abilities listed ~ above and want to experience the wonders 
I 

of the holiday season please contact Marshall Field's Human Resource Office at 
• {219}271-6204 and ask for Lydia • 
··~ ~·· 
Chicago: City of Hope 
January 6th-11th, 1998 The Seminar 
•
Five day seminar in the city of Chicago 

•
Focuses on the positive programs being implemente to aid underresourced neighborhoods 

•
Provides an opportunity for service in various educational arenas 

• 
Emphasizes group reflections and prayer 

• 
Earn one credit hour 



APPLICA.TIONS DUE TODAY~' 
For additional information please contact Jennifer Weigel 243-2656 Christine Haley 243-8262 
WCOME JOIN US W 
for SONG, 
PRAYER, 
& FELLOWSHIP 
V{j-It)Y? 

TONIGHT 7:00 PM STANFORD/KEENAN CHAPEL 
V{fiO? 



EVERYONE WELCOME! 
(Especially the NDE community and the participants of NDE #48.) 
[gt us continue to journey in faith. crhis is an 
opportunity to gather as a community offaith to share and to pray. We ~vill also be presenting opportunities to participate in smaller faith 
a:~~ sharing groups. (l\MPUS ~~ MINISTRY
-

Wednesday. November 19,.)997 The Observer • SPORTS 
• MAJOR lEAGUE BASEBAll 


Martinez, Nen sent packing 

Associated Press Expos he wouldn't sign a mul­
tiyear contract with Boston, a 
PHOENIX source told The Associated 
Pedro Martinez became only Press on the condition he not the second Cy Young Award be identified. winner to get traded when Martinez, whose brother, Montreal sent him to the Ramon, pitches for the Los Boston Red Sox on Tuesday Angeles Dodgers, has a 65-39 night for two prospects. career record, becoming one of 
Martinez, 26, went 17-8 with baseball's premier pitchers. a major-league best 1.90 ERA Boston has been without an and 305 strikeouts last season ace since Roger Clemens Jell to and made $3,615,000. sign with the Toronto Blue Montreal, unwilling to pay the Jays after the 1996 season. $6 million-plus salary he'll The Red Sox sent Montreal top probably get in salary arbitra-· pitching prospect Carl Pavano tion, decided to trade him. and a player to be named later. 
Still, it's, unclear how long Martinez will remain with the 000 Hed Sox. lie is eligible for free agency after the 1998 season The Florida Marlins traded and on Monday night told the another key part of their World 
Off-Ca01pus For01al 
Friday, December 5th 
+ efiHAdam Sar und 
• .i-1 FREE rccrime T·shirt e first 500 tickets sol ..; 
FREE Food/Soda all night Cash B r w· Spec!als FREE Pick-:-UP p-ff from United 
Lonta Oates-College Park 18087 Aparbnent C 271-7458 Carolyn Adomey-College Park 18087 Aparbnent D 271-7677 
ohn Campbell-1014 St. Louis St. 2346784 David Neville-1628 Turtle Creek Court 272-6512 Kathleenjordan-1667 W. Turtle Creek Dr. 243-2635 MetmaMyron-Apt. 10 lafayette 289-2836 
Series team Tuesday night, sending closer Robb Nen to the San Francisco Giants for three pitchers. 
The deal was scheduled to be announced after the comple­tion of the expansion draft Tuesday night. In return for Nen, the Marlins got right-han­ders Mike Villano, Joe Fontenot and Mike Pageler. 
Nen had 35 saves last sea­son. With San Francisco, he will replace Rod Beck and Roberto Hernandez, who became free agents after the season. 
Florida didn't want to carry Nen's contract, which calls for him to receive $4 million next year, $5 million in 1999 and KAT 
Closer Robb Nen comes out of Florida's bullpen to join the Giants. 
$5.5 million in 2000. 

What's the meaning of this ad? 
Before you ponder the fundamental principle of this logical question, consider this: Fazoli's features 12 menu items priced under $4, including Ravioli, 
Fettuccine Alfredo and Spaghetti. Meaning. in theory, you won't need a student loan to eat here. 


52770 US Route 33N, 277-4008, South Bend 

Open 5-1Opm Tues. -Thurs. & 5-11pm Fri. & Sat. Free Admission to Heartland with Dinner 
222 S. MICHIGAN • SOUTH BEND • (219) 234-5200 

Love, Mom & Dad 
• 


Counseline 
Fill Your Head ... 

Counseline gives you the information you need 
1 X 7793 

Monday -Thursday 4pm-12am Counseline is an audio tape info. service sponsored by the Psych Club and the University Counseling Center providing info. 
on topics 
including:
Dating and relationshipsFadng anxiety and fear Coping with stress Understanding eating disorders Date rape Dealing with loneliness and depression Recognizing the earlysigns of alcoholism 
..

Recognizing suicidal potential in others 
For a complete listing of all the tapes check the front of your directory 
,..---~-~-~----------~-----------~---~ 
page 18 

... Grid 
continued from page 20 
our wide receivers." 
In fact, the biggest defensive matchup will most likely be between the Irish receivers and the West Virginia secondary. The Mountaineers are led by junior defensive back Nate Terry, the team leader in inter­ceptions with three, who also does double time as a return man. 
As far as the Irish are con­cerned. while Davie is happy with the progress the team has made as of this point. he is still concerned with some nagging problems, that as he said, "will take longer to solve." 
One of the major problems he cited was a lack of depth. The week off between the Navy and LSU game gave the Irish a much-needed chance to heal some injuries and have the team back 100 percent. 

As of this week, senior safety Benny Guilbeaux is one of the only question marks. However, this could prove costly as Guilbeaux has been a key on defense for the Irish in the last two games. 
Davie's main goal right now lies in trying to tone down the excitement from the win over the Tigers and tune out the thought of a possible bowl in order to stay focused for the last two games. 
"I think if we play as good as we can play, we can play with anyone in the country," Davie said. "That doesn't mean I'm just saying we can. We have to go out and play. The focus right now, and the goal right now is to be able to go play back-to-hack weeks and finish the season out the right way." 

The Observer/Kevin Dalum 

The Notre Dame offensive line will have its hands full facing the West Virginia defense on Saturday. 

-------------------------------~ 
~-----------~ 
[ ,_ 

Wednesday, November 19, 1997 The Observer • TODAY page 19 
MEN ABOUT CAMPUS DAN SULLIVAN 

\./RitER's~ 

BLoc( 
MIKE PETERS 

MOTHER GOOSE & GRIMM 

DILBERT 
DOGBE.RT R.ESEI\RC\-1 CO. 
'<OU'VE. ALL BEE.~ CARE­FULLY SCREENED FOR 
THIS FOCUS GROUP. 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 1 Top piece of a two-piece 4 Italian seaport 11 Timber wood 14 "Alley--" 15 Zoom-in shot 16 Chinese principle n Sex determinant 19 --rampage 20 Ready to go 21 Taste test label 23 200 milligrams, to a jeweler 25 Funnyman Philips 28 Not have--in the world 29 Spinks defeater, 1978 30 Parallel bar exercises 
32 Not nude 33 Complicated situations 37 Debussy contemporary 39 Treasure hunter's 
declaration 43 Pen 44 Parti-colored 4& Quite the expert 49 Having 
conflicting allegiances 51 --du Diable 
52 Kind of fool 54 Wood splitter 55 Quite the expert 
57 For adults only 59 Tickle one's 
fancy &1 Play (with) &2 Twenty­
somethings 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

34 Deemed 
Schoenberg's 
appropriate 35 Miscalculate 

"'--~--~!l~El~gJ~~~ttUj~ music 
E.I\CI-\ OF YOU l-IAS 1\ PATTERN OF MI\KlNG "L05ER CHOICES. II I'LL TELL ~y CLIEN\5 TO 00 THE OPP05ITE OF WI-\1\T­
EVE.R '<OU 
&7 Jargon suffix &8 Earth, wind or 
fire &9 Squid secretion TO Texas­
Oklahoma 

boundary river 71 Tennis volleys 72 Gypsy Rose 
DOWN 

1 Word with band or sand 2 Dutton's sitcom role 3 "Art is long, life is short," e.g. 4Astronaut 
Carpenter s Soprano Gluck & Blotto 7 Suffix with lion 8 Rock's-­
Speedwagon 
9 Feeling the effects of Novocaine 

10 "Don Giovanni," 31 Fruit/tree
for one connector 
12 Bullock of 36 "In Living Color" "Speed" 

segment
RR-':'-1-=-t"!!! :,:~+;-fiii~~~F~B 13 Took in, in a way 
38 Prefix with RB~~-=+7--i.•;-+7-+=-,;,;.,.._:::.+--'+"-~ 18 Genetic stuff 
propyl

~=+~-+::-! 22 Say "yes" to 
40 Greek portico ~~~~··!l!J~~~~ 23 Auto shaft, 41 Salad dressing 
SCOTT ADAMS 

fUN! I'M GLAD I 
SKIPPED :fUR'< 
TO BE HERE. ~--' 
I R£5CHEDLJLED M'< LIVER TRANS­
PLANT! 
( 

47 Revolted 58 Take out 48 Not neat at the &o "Sudden­ends brooks" novelist Thomas
so Mor~ imminent 53 Pioneer in 63 Surfing site Cubism 64 Big bird 55 Fido and friends 65 Opposite SSW 56"--recall ..." && Classic Jaguar 
Answers to any three clues in this puzzle 


YOUR HOROSCOPE 
Aries: Today you experience the triumph of successfully Stealing Home, subtly scoring a run when nobody is watching. You can solve any problem that comes your way. A current or potential lover finds you irresistable. 
Taurus: Behaving like a Maverick today will have others comparing you to the back end of a horse. You look selfish when you assert your­self, even if you're right. Avoid a power struggle by tolerating differ­ences of opinion. 
Gemini: Today you could make Contact with an extraterrestrial intelligence. There are enough fas­cinating people here on earth, too, many of whom are somewhat "out there." You are drawn to those who play by the same rules as yourself. 
Cancer: Today you are Mesmerized by a big-ticket item that you simply must have. Wish fulfillment and whim indulgence are two different things, but both can be expensive. Your pride could get you in trouble. 
Leo: Today the Lion is permitted to take a long Siesta, sensually loung­ing the afternoon away. Pleasure energizes you rather than dissipat­ing your energy. In any arena, you are a force to be reckoned with today. 
Virgo: Today you find yourself frantically cleaning out Five Corners of a room that only has four of them. Other people's excite­ment makes you overcompensate. Get out a little more and have a life of your own. 
Libra: You could win the Rookie of the Year award for your fmsh face, new ideas, and sudden rise_to pop­ularity. Recognition is sweet, even from those who already know you. Take today's success and huild on it. 
Scorpio: You may feel like the injured party today, but someone else treats you as The Accused. You are caught in a conflict between powerful forces. Any high profile actions or gestures could easily be misinterpreted. 
Sagittarius: Today you are a Taxi Driver, playing host to a cast of unusual travelers, collecting big tips for your efforts. Everyone assumes you to be an authority on how to have a good time in this town. Take advantage of the situa­tion. 
Capricorn: Today you are dis­turbed by The Silence of the Lambs who are apparently being led to slaughter. Some are assuming that an irregular event is just business as usual. You may need to think fast. 
Aquarius: Today feels like Freaky Friday no matter what day of the week it really is. Everything seems to be going in opposite directions from yesterday. Your job is to lind the middle ground in all this absur­dity. 
Pisces: You need to Backtrack today -you missed your turn while daydreaming. You might be seeking refuge from something that you should be handling. Over­reacting to a problem only makes it worse. 


Wanted: Reporters, photographers and editors. Join The Observer staff. 
For more information on the health risks of smoking or smoking cessation classes, please contact the Office of Alcohol and Drug Education at x7970 
-
• 
-

- 
SPORTS  
page 20  Wednesday, November 19, 1997  

• WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 

~l.f Th:>ii!IIDIID~l.f ~~C!ll.f 
Same winning finished with a team-high 17 points, drained two key threeexpectations as pointers propelling Notre Dame 
to a 1-0 record. Irish start season "I had to work for every shot I got," McMillen said. "Luckily, I
ByJOECAVATO 
was able to get free and get

Assistant Sports Editor 
some good looks near the end." "There were a couple of times 

Before last night's tip-off of when we absolutely needed a the women's basketball game, bucket," McGraw said. "And the 1997 Final Four banner was Sheila stepped up and hit those raised honoring the record-set-threes. and Mollie made so ting 1996-97 season and official-many big plays. 1 don't know ly closing the book on it. where to begin." 
After the ceremony. the 1997-Peirick dished out eight assists 98 Irish took the floor and and snared five rebounds while looked just as dominant in the also adding 12 points on very early going. Head c;_o_a_c_h_M_u_fli_e_t____--, timely 5-of-9 McGraw's squad shooting. got off to a good "J just think that start in what was Notre Dame 71 that is going to be a terrific half in Butler 65 more of my role which Notre this year, more of Dame built a 23-a scoring mentali­point lead over ty," Peirick said. Butler b-efore the Bulldogs "Stepping up and hitting key stormed back in the second only shots and just being in control is to fall short, 71-65.· really what 1 wanted to work 
With Butler making its charge on... in the second stanza, McGraw "We played like a young team was looking for someone to despite the leadership that we 
knock down the big shot as that have, but we're going to be up 23-point lead had dwindled to and down," McGraw said. "We four at 62-58 with four minutes eame out in the first half, and if left in the contest. it had not been for the free Last season, this situation throw line, 1 think we would 
would not have worried McGraw have won easily." as she could look to one of two In what promised to be a 2,000 point scorers -Beth physical match-up, 51 fouls Morgan or Katryna Gaither-to were called, and there were 63 hit the shot and put the nail in total free throws attempted the coffin of the Bulldogs, who between the two teams. Butler are predicted to win the lived at the charity stripe in the Midwestern Collegiate first half, getting 13 of their 24 
Conference. first half points by way of free Co-captains Sheila McMillen throws. A tenacious Irish 
and Mollie Peirick stepped up to With 17 points, sophomore guard Sheila McMillen led the Irish drive to the hoop all night. the challenge. McMillen, who see W.HOOPS I page 16 
• fOOTBALL 





Maintaining Momentum 
defenses, but they can also throw the ball
Irish look to build off of 
effectively in order to catch opponents off guard.last week's convincing West Virginia's offense is led by sopho­more tailback Amos Zereoue, a first teamvictory over LSU all-Big East selection last year :-vho was fourth in the nation in rushing pnor to the
By BETSY BAKER 

Nov. 1 Syracuse game in which he was held 
Associate Sports Editor 

to 71 yards on 16 carries. A threatening sta­tistic to the Irish about Zereoue is that the 
After pouncing LSU 24-6last Saturday, the Mountaineers are 11-0 in the last two years Notre Dame football team,::.ap~p~ea.:..:_r_s_to_b_e______ when he has rushed for at back on track. The only 1 least 100 yards. Therefore, problem is that there is a major key lies in contain-nothing West Virginia ing the Mountaineer rush-would love more than ing attack. derailing the streaking Defensively, Irish head 
Irish. coach Bob Davie sees many 
After bouncing back from similarities between both a 2-5 start, the Irish have his team and West Virginia, worked their way back to and the top-ranked .500 and are now flirting Michigan and the with the possibility of post-Mountaineers. 
season play. In order to do "I think all of us have the same type of so, however, the Irish must win the remain-scheme," Davie commented at his weekly ing two games, and if the team .could do it i~ press conference yesterday. "Two real big the same fashion as last weeks blowout, It tackles, one nose guard, an one defensive would not hurt its cause. tackle inside, both 300 pounds. They have a 
West Virginia presents much of the same rush back that's really a good player, and kind of challenge as the Tigers, including a their two corners will match up well against
7-2 record and a top-25 ranking. The No. 21 
The Observer/Brandon Candura 

Mountaineers are a physical team that uses 
-----------=::-;-;::-:-;------;:-;:;-Safety Benny Guilbeaux is questionable for the West Virginia game. 
its running game to wear down opposing see GRID I page 18
-


t. West Virginia, 
• 
November 22, 2:30 Women's Swim at Arizona, November 21, 1o_ a.m. -It"-vs. Nebraska, 
\~ November 23, 1 p.m. vs. Ferris State, 
~ 
~ ~ .. November 20, 7 p.m. 
•Men's Basketball at Marquette, November 21, 7 p.m. Q) •Expansion draft 
Women's Basketball at Duke, 
November 22 ~ see page 14 Basketball at Kalamazoo 
• WVU's Zereoue ready to face Irish

s.~ ~ 
November 21, p.m. 
·~ 
see page 13Swimming at Albion, 

s~ 

tonight, 7:30p.m. 
~ 
•.. ···~ 









