
Tuesday, October 7, 1997 • Vol. XXXI No. 32 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Inauguration ushers in Eldred Era By SHANA'E TATE News Writer Students, !'acuity, stan·. distin­guished gunsts and n~pn·snnta­'President tives of' surrounding communi­ties gatlwrPd at O'l.aughlin A u d i t o r i u ,,~n~~...I"!P!W-..., yest1~rday to-.,_, :W·IIIc' •11 Eldred has celebrate not • Eldred only the Inauguration charmedinauguration special sectionof' Marilou pp. 4-5 Eldred. but the young also to celP-L_______j brate Saint Mary's history and the journey into the next mil­and old. We lennium. The inauguration lwgan with know that a welconw by tlw College's vicp-pn~sid1mt and dean of' stu­d!~nts. Dorothy Feigl. who she willbriPily recapped llw history of' Saint Mary's. Mary u;u Corno, chairman of' absorb the the Board of' TrustPes. l'ollowNI with tlw installation of' l:ldred. The Observer/ Manuela Hernandez Eldn~d <H~C.PptPd thP n•sponsi­Mary Lou Garno (right), chair of the Board of Trustees, applauds the newly inaugurated Marilou Eldred. spirit of the bility to !Pad tlw CoiiPge in all aspnets. Caldwell, president of' the sharing of long tradition and community."Student body pr<'sid<'nl Nikki College that Alummw Association Board of similarities between the schools. In the continuation of greet­Milos extendPd tlw gr!'!~ling Directors. "President Eldred has He said the College's "'neigh­ings, the mayors of Elkhart,!'rom tlw stu(h~nts. "On bdutll' of' charmed the young and the old. bors to the south' will always be Mishawaka and South Bend lives in all ofthe students. I W<'it·onw you as We know that she will absorb there to help." proclaimed Oct. 6 as Saint wn look forward to your lnader­tlw spirit of the College that lives Father Edward Malloy, presi­Mary's College Day. Theyship... slw said. ' in all of us," she said. dent of Notre Dame, spoke believe that there is a strong us. Milos addPd that t-:ldn·d will The nr.xt two speak-c..\~ y 's . about the sharing of tra­"relationship between the com­lw "promoting an atmosplwrn of' Prs wen~ thr, presi­. .;. ;:;>----......_,~~~) / clition and history munity."individual atli•ntion and pio­dnnts of' Saint -/ . :\."' between the two From another point of view,IWering r.hangt•." Anita Pampusch, president ofMary's two SPES UN~1~ I'\c.· *'schools. He .com-Susan Shouvlin Hnpresnnting tlw pan•nls of' neighboring _. \-. mentedthat1fone the Bush Foundation and a pro­Saint Mary's. Coll!•!•n and .Jamns and lloly Cross / · 1 L school ever had to fessional colleague of Eldred's, Caldwell,Hyan, chair-c.ouplt• of' l'ar!'nts a f f i I i a t e d . J / • 'struggle to survive, spoke about having the "inside Council. focus!'CI on tlw passion. s e h o o I s . ·: ! -the other was track" on Eldred. The two president of thelove. and rnspPrt Eldn~d has Brotlll'r Hichard ,_, / ;·~ there." worked together at the Collegealready d1wnlop1~d by this insti­Gilman, president ,....{0., ,/ · Malloy stressed the of Saint Catherine's. Pampusch .Alumnaetution. They and tlw council are of II o ly .1: "·---.. :~..• _ ..._../'...;. importance for "priests, was the president when Eldred both very i~xrill'd to work with College, began 4. Mr." brothers and sisters to be served as vice president. She AssociationEldn~d. "God bl1~ss and guide describing Saint Mary's as one." "We are in this described Eldred as a "sympa­you into this institution." said new president as full of "wit, together," he stated. thetic listener, problem solver Board othe eoupln. passion, vision and charm." Malloy ended by addressing and organizer. She said that Anotlwr lwarti'Pit gr!'Pting was Gilman put an enormous Eldred saying. "welcome to the DirectorsgivPn by Susan Shouvlin amount o!' t)mphasis on the territory and welcome to the see CEREMONY I page 4  

• SECURITY BEAT 
Work closes Edison 
Observer Staff Report 
Off-campus students should anticipatP clnlays in getting to campus this week because of construc­tion on portions of Edison Hoad, according lo Phil Johnson. assistant director of Notro Dame Security/Police. 
The s'ection of Edison that connects .Juniper and Ivy Hoads is being re-paved. Johnson said, adding that one-lane tral'!'ic will be in of'fr.et throughout the clay today while crews lay the base coat. On Wednesday, that portion of' Edison will be closed altogether so that the crews can begin apply­ing the top coat. 
"I think [the construction] would be a major impact on our students," Johnson said, adding that students should factor in the delay when travelling to and from campus this week. 



Electric safety switch causes power outage across campus 
By MICHELLE KRUPA The default setting and what our denly enveloped in darkness dur­Associate News Editor consultants said to set it at was ing morning classes. 
not in sync," he continued. "I was in 101 DeBartolo, and all 
Students and staff' were left "Luckily, there were people work-of a sudden the lights went out, without powr.r for about fivr, min-ing, and they were able to reset it said sophomore Heather Yolk. "I utes beginning at 9:30 was in my 9:30 
a.m. yesterday. ---------------------[class], and the pro-The outage occurred 'Adevice was improperly set. The fessor was doing a 
after an improperly-set d h computer presenta­voltage regulator trig-default setting an W at our con-tion. All of a sudden gcred a safety mecha-sultants said to set it at was not in sync. there was a pop, and nism to shut off power to k'l h 1 k' d it was black. 
part of campus. Luc 1 y, t ere were peop e wor mg an "We sat in the dark "On a high voltage line, they were able to reset it immediately.' for about 1o or 15 we have safety devices minutes, and then the that can shut off the lights came back on," power." said director of John DeLee she added. "It was Utilities John DeLee. director ofUtilities kind of fun." 
"The one that shut it No injuries were off' [yesterday) morning---------------------reported in conjunc­is usr.d to stop voltage tion with the outage, going from Notre Dame to places immediately." according to Phil Johnson, assis­ofl'campus," he added. The setting has since been tant director of University 
lie explained that the safety altered, and DeLee does not Security/Police. problem occurred because a tem-anticipate similar outages. "There were not any incidents perature regulator was set to Numerous dorms and class-that I know of. 01' course when keep temperatures at a power room buildings including there's an outage, elevators don't facility at 80 degrees. DeBartolo Hall, COBA, Nieuwland work, but [power] was returned 
The correct setting should have Science Hall and Hayes-Healy really quickly, so I don't think been 270 degrees. were left without power. there were any problems," he "A device was improperly se.t. Students found themselves sud-said. 

page 2 The Observer • INSIDE Tuesday, October 7, 1997 

• INSJDE COLUMN 
Get away from the tube 
Ever since my room--------­mates and I moved into Mary Margaret
Nussbaum
our new home on the fourth floor of Howard, Assistant Accem Ediror we have been trying to get hold of our neighbors in Morrissey across the way. It's always good to know your neighbors. I envisioned a true friendship forming over our shared geography. We could run over to snag some Twizzlers, and they could come back to work on Calculus. Maybe, I thought, we could rig up one of those neat tin can and tube phone lines and talk about what we had for dinner and the state of the universe. We started our correspondence with simple waves. an upraised arm for the guy walking down the stairs with his green towel and walk­man on, a twist of the wrist to the crowd on the second floor. We tried shouting a few times and even practiced our cat call skills. We don't close the shade when we dress. Our neighbors do not respond. I can see them from my little desk.They aren't deep in meditation or laboring over a pile o books. They are watching TV. The Simpsons, Jenny McCarthy, the never-ending saga of Kelly and Brandon, a baseball game, a football game, a little late night Dave. f'm sure these guys are wonderful people with interesting thoughts and lots of promise. Too bad they're atrophying in front of the boob tube. And they are not the only ones. Walking down the halls of any dorm you see guys lined up like little quadriplegic soldiers fighting the enemy with their Sega control pad. You can hear Oprah's anecdotes and the moans and heaves of another Day~ episode pouring out of many a room. Sometime between Seinfeld and Party of Five, most of us had to read Plato's Allegory of the Cave. For those of you who have forgotten thfl story, I'll recap. A group of prisoners live their entire lives in a cave. They am bound so that they cannot move about or look at one another. They sit and watch shadows, crpated by the peo­ple outside the cave, moving on the wall in front of them. To the prisoners, these shadows, what we know to be an illusion, are reality. When one of the prisoners leaves the cave he is dazzled by the world. Every leaf of every tree, the warmth and texture of the ground, the expression on a face, the bright, bright sun-all of this beauty amazes him. We can be like those prisoners. Instead of living our lives and living deeply, we accept the diluted and distorted ver­sion of another's life as shown on our television screen. Seinfeld is very funny and some nights should be Blockbuster nights. But in between grabbing the remote and kicking off your sneakers make sure that you are creating your own life story. Instead of counting down the days 'til you'll find out if Kelly will get back with Brandon, why not ask that curly haired Knott boy out? Instead of watching MTV's the Grii1d, why not roll up the rug and have your own groove session? Instead of listening to another confessional talk-show why not get to know the kid tlmw doors down? Instead of zoning out to the buzzing background of another football game why not go out on the quad and toss? Maybe you just need sleep. It's easy to forget how lucky we are. But look around. You may never again be surrounded by such a wealth of resources: lectures, concerts and plays, every imaginable book, interesting people from all corners of the country and learned professors. You can watch TV anywhere. You can watch it in jail, in a nursing home or on an airplane. You can only be here now. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 

News  Graphics  
Allison Koenig  Pete Cilella  
Sarah Hansen  Production  
Sports  Mark DeBoy  
Kevin Robinson  Susie Sohn  
Viewpoint  Lab Tech  
Pan McDonough  Anthony Shaker  
Kelly Brooks  
Accent  
Mary Margaret Nussbaum  

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction riglus are reserved. 

• ViJom.o AT A GLANCE 
Algerian school bus ambush leaves 17 people dead 
ALGIERS, Algeria Algerian massacres killed 10 people and injured 20, the !at-Armed men attacked a school bus ~---=::,.,----~-------~---",-~~-·--------.~-~ est bloodshed in a nearly 6-year-old 
Sunday in a region hard-hit by Algeria's Islamic insurgents, killing 16 schoolchildren and their driver, hospi­tal sources said. 
The bus crashed, rolling onto its side, when the driver apparently tried to run a roadblock set up by the attackers, according to the hospital sources, who spoke on condition of anonymity. 
Some of the children died from gun­shots to the head, the somces said. 
The attack took place in Bouinan, near Elida, about 30 miles south of Algiers. The garrison town is in the heart of a region targeted by the Armed Islamic Group, a militant orga­nization suspected in repeated, ruth­less guerrilla massacres of civilians. 
On Friday, a rocket barrage on Blida 

Clinton will veto funding for military bill 
WASHINGTON, D.C. President Clinton will use his new _line-item veto powers to delete funding for 30 to 50 projects worth nearly $300 million from a military construc­tion bill, aides said today. Hahm Emanuel, the president's senior policy adviser, declined to estimate how many items in the $9 billion bill were on the chopping block today or their 
k£J~_ _.,__ amounts, but said on "Fox News Sunday" that "it will be extensive." At least 11 provisions were considered veto­eligible because they were not on the Pentagon's five­year list of needed projects and were not requested by the administration. Among them were $13 million for family housing at the Pearl Harbor naval complex in Hawaii and $6.9 million to renovate the launch pad at the White Sands Missile Range in New Mexico. Six of the bill's projects are in Mississippi, the home of Senate Majority Leader Trent Lott, and three are in Georgia, home of House Speaker Newt Gingrich. It was unclear what items would be deleted by Clinton today. White House officials were notifying lawmakers of his decision, aides said. The action would be only tho second use of the line-item veto, under which the president can disap­prove individual items in a bill and avoid having to kill the entire measure. 
First female 'G.I. Joe' remains scarless 
FORT WASHINGTON, Pa. 

The scar on G.!. Joe's right cheek has shown every kid who's held one of the 11 1/2-inch action figures that the soldier has battlefield experience. Kurt Groen, who designed the first female full-size figure for the G.!. Joe line since the nurse of 1967, had a tough choice: Scar or no scar'? He eventually put the question to collectors who kept the large figures "alive" after the llasbro Toy Group stopped producing them in 1978 and when the company substituted a 3 314-inch version in 1982. "By a slight margin, the majority of collectors say no scar," Groen said as he showed off the scar-less figure at the Fourth Annual International G.l. Joe Collectors Convention over the weekend. Hasbro has brought back the large dolls and targeted them at collectors, largely in response to the soaring value of America's movable fighting man, first introduced in 1964. The G.l. nurse that didn't do well in the stores back in the '60s now fetches several thousand dollars among collectors. Groen's creation is part of the 1998 G.!. Joe Classic Collection. Tho action figure is an 82nd Airborne Division helicoptnr pilot, com­plete with French-braided hair and rifle. 
conflict between Islamic insurgents and Algerian security forces, which has killed an estimated 75,000 people. 
The rockets were reportedly fired from the nearby Chrea mountains, used as a base for attacks on the isolated vii­!ages of the Mitidja Plain. 
An army offensive on a stronghold of the Armed Islamic Group moved into its 11th day Sunday, with tanks and bull­dozers advancing and helicopters cir­cling a village that a general said guer­rillas had mined and webbed with escape tunnels. 
Several Algerian journalists allowed access to Oued Allel, 12 miles south of the capital, said security forces were closing in and appeared to be readying

200 km AP for an assault. 
Mutated corn ears used for research 
URBANA. Ill. 

Ears of corn that would be a nightmare for farmers to see in their fields -and would frighten most Americans if they ended up on a dinner plate -are lovingly pre­served and studied at the University of Illinois. The uni­versity is home to the Agriculture Department's Maize Genetics Cooperation Stock Center. The collection is the nation's main repository for thousands of different corn mutations, including many chromosome aberrations that resulted from atomic bomb tests in 1946 and 1947. "In humans, these mutations would result in things like color blindness, muscular dystrophy, sickle cell anemia," said Marty Sachs, the center's director. "But with corn, we can preserve the seeds and do research. It increases our understanding of the biological aspects of corn and can lead to better corn." The corn known as Argentina pop is one mutation kept on display at the center. The entire ear is only about 2 inches long. In contrast, another mutation causes corn to produce kernels that are nearly as big as an entire ear of Argentina pop. Another ear has four smaller "cobettes" growing out of it. There also are mutations that cause corn tassels to produce seeds. There are mutations that make glumes -chaff that is normally very reduced in corn -grow over each kernel, much like wheat. Many of the mutants in the collection are too extreme for directly improving agricultural prod­ucts. 
Straw houses not just for little pigs 
LANCASTER, S.C. 

Big, bad wolf jokes don't bother Barry and Carrie Ford, snug in their house of straw. Besides, the Fords may be getting the last laugh. They say they have a cheap. attrac­tive home that will withstand foul weather as well as criti­cism. Straw houses are not just for little pigs anymore. Thousands have been built in the Southwest, where they are praised for their low cost, energy efficiency and envi­ronmental friendliness. Ford's 1,940-square-foot house cost about $7,000-no mortgage, no loans, no debt. lfe, his wife and their friends wrapped 600 straw bales with twine, stacked them like bricks and painted them with stucco, inside and out. "People tell me all the time they can't afford to build a house," said Ford, a vinyl siding contractor. "I tell them they can ... Imagination's a real problem for a lot of people." The home's 2-foot-thick walls keep out the cold. Heating the house with natural gas will cost about $130 for the winter, and experts say straw homes actually resist fire better than wood. The only prob­lem the Fords encountered during construction came from their animals. A chicken laid eggs in the corner where the TV now sits and horses snacked on a wall. 


• SoufH BEND VifEATHH! • NATIONAL WEATHER 
The AccuWeather®forecast for noon, Tuesday, Oct. 7.
5 Day South Bend Forecast 
AccuWeather® forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 
Lines separate high temperature zones tor the day.

40s 50s 
H L 

Tuesday ~ 82 61 Wednesday~ 86 64 Thursday ~ 85 61 
FRONTS:
Friday ~ 79 60 
..............
--r-r ~ 
COLD WARM STATIONARY Pressure
Saturday ,,_,~ 84 61 
¢­

H L IT] GSl !TIJ EZJ. [3] 8 
HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT CLOUDY CLOUDY 
Atlanta 81 63 Greensboro 85 53 Orlando 85 68 Bismarck 74 51 Honolulu 90 75 Philadelphia 83 61 Boston 74 56 New Orleans 87 74 Phoenix 97 75
4,r:Q,~8G8 ~ ~ d 
Chicago 88 56 New York City 80 65 Shreveport 88 62
Showers T-storms Rain Flurries Snow Ice Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy 
Fargo 67 50 Omaha 85 64 Wichita 89 68
Via Associated Press GraphicsNet 
Tuesday, October 7, 1997 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Appeals jud on death pe 
ByTIMLOGAN it," he. said; News Writer Noonan study.of 
John Noonan, a federal Catholic. appeals judge on the ninth cir­how that cuit. spoke at last night's Windmoor Conversations. Noonan talked about his expe­riences with death penalty cases, and about the develop­ment of Catholic moral doc­trine. 
Noonan heard the doath­penalty appeal of Robert Alton Harris, the first man to be sen­tnnced to death in the state of California in 20 years. 
The appeal on the death sen­tence was brought to Noonan, who ordered a stay of execu­tion, allowing for further con­sideration of new arguments. Noonan was backod by the Supreme Court in granting tho reprieve, and the execution was delayed for two years. 
As a federal appellate judge, Noonan has never had to pro­nounce a death sentence, and he does not believe that the death penalty is necessary. 
"Half of the states don't have the death penalty and seem to get along pretty well without 

MEN IN BLACK 7()~ ail-e ~? 7fJWu~~? 

Ethicist faults assisted suicide 
By ERICA THESING 
News Writer 
Physician-assisted suicide should not be legalized, accord­ing to bio-ethicist Arthur Caplan. 
Caplan, the director of the Center of Bioethics at the University of Pennsylvania, gave a public lecture last night as part of the Notre Dame Holocaust Project. He said that euthanasia is a major issue in the United States right now. 
"I actually believe there is something called an ethical assisted-suicide, but that's dif­ferent from legalizing it," he said. 
In opposition to legalized assisted-suicide, Caplan cited problems within the American health care system, such as a desire to reduce insurance costs and a lack of quality nursing homes. 
"If you legalize it, we'll never fix the nursing home situation because there will be no motiva­tion," he said. 
According to Caplan, the majority of proponents for euthanasia are wealthy whites concerned with the burden of health care costs. He pointed out that euthanasia discrimi­nates against the poor and minorities who can not get treatment. but could potentially be killed by their doctors. 
"If you don't take this insur­ance problem and solve it, it is very dangerous to have legal assisted-suicide," Caplan said. 
Caplan, who has testified against Jack Kevorkian in court, feels that it is unfair to make analogies between Kevorkian and Nazi Germany. Caplan made it quite clear that he is no friend of Kevorkian's, but he explained that Kevorkian's motives are much different than those of the Nazis. 


"What Kevorkian is doing has nothing to do with Nazi euthanasia. In Nazi euthanasia, there is no assisted suicide. It is murder," he said. "[Kevorkian] is the strongest individual rights proponent you can ever imag­ine. You couldn't get two more different value systems than a 1940 concentration camp and Jack Kevorkian." 
According to Caplan, medical professionals in this country pride themselves on the policy of informed consent, which allows individual families to make decisions for their loved ones. The Nazis used euthana­sia as a form of genocide and never obtained consent from their victims. 
Caplan recognized the chal­lenge that the Holocaust pre­sents to bioethics. He was actu­ally the first person to write a book on the topic. His book, published in 1992, was titled, "When Medicine Went Bad." He also organized the first confer­ence to discuss the Holocaust in terms of bioethics. 
"In bioethics, what happened in these camps was so awful, no one wanted to talk about it," Caplan said. 
Caplan's own interest in the Holocaust stems from his father's role in liberating con­centration camps at the end of World War II. 
"''d heard my father talk about his time in the camps," he said. "It had a terrible impact on his unit. For a week, they didn't take any prisoners. They shot everyone they saw. He wasn't persuaded by the argument that the Germans didn't know what was going on. It was a 10 minute walk from Dachau to Munich." 
Caplan first heard these sto­ries as a high school student and continued to reflect on them as he grew older. 
"I sort of resolved in my own head to get back to this topic," he said. "For a long time it has been puzzling to me why bioethics, my field, has never paid much attention to the Holocaust." 
The next event of the Holocaust Project is a public lec­ture on Thursday night given by Jonathan Marks. Marks, an anthropology professor from the University of California, Berkeley, will speak on heredity and the responsibility of science. 





~. flu.. ~· e.s.e. ~. ?Jctt 'U'ad. e.s.e. 

Clarity Consulting, Inc. 
?~n ffUne ~tm tk -;?I~ ~ tHee-~ (3adid4te p~ ~ 
Looking for a career in a small but 
~ s~ • ~ Z'ame. 1~ 46556 
nationally-recognized consulting firm? 
(219} 631-63%5 • ~:1/~.Hd.e<Ue/-~ 
Clarity Consulting, Inc. with offices in downtown Chicago, special­
ANSWER~ 

izes in the design and implementation of leading-edge Windows­
THECALLW 


based client/server information systems. Clarity will be discussing career opportunities in an on-campus presentation. 
• 
Clarity is a young, talented, entrepreneurial company that has extensive experience in custom application development, strategic planning, technical design and project management within the Fortune 500 community. 

• 
Clarity is a Microsoft Certified Solution Provider Partner. 

• 
Clarity consultants have diverse educational and technical backgrounds, including Computer Science, Engineering, Business, and Liberal Arts. 


If you want an exciting career which offers continuous challenges and a great future, mark our presentation on your calendar. Visit www.claritycon.com for more information. 
DATE: Tuesday, October 7th 
TIME: 7pm-9pm 

~) 1 1 v PLACE: Morris Inn, Alumni Room
1-800-KAP-TEST 
www.kaplan.com 

~:1 u 1 r 1 N , * Refreshments will be served 'MCAT is a registered trademark of the Association of American Medical Colleges. 

Partner--~--­





INAUGU 
page 4 
Nine presidents precede Eldred 
By MELANIE GARMAN 
Saint Mary's Assistant News Editor 
As a new era dawns with the inauguration of Marilou Eldred, the Saint Mary's community looks to a promising future without losing sight of its roots. 
In 1843, four Sisters of tlul Holy Cross came from LeMans, France to help the brothers of Holy Cross open a college in northern Indiana. Only one year later. the sisters opened thnir first school in Bertrand, Mich. 
At the first commcm:cmcnt held in 1848, then rnferrnd to as an exhibition, the school was officially named the Saint Mary's Academy. Although the institution had been in opera­tion since 1844, the position of president did not exist until 1903. 
Mother Angela became the first American Superior of the Sisters of the Holy Cross and was named directress of the Bertrand Saint Mary's Academy from 1853-1870 and from 1886­1887, the year sj1e died. Several other sisters of the order also served as administrators during the beginning years. 
The first alumnae association meeting was held in 1879 and was called the Association of Post-Graduates of Saint Mary's Academy. Mother Lucretia col­lected $500 from members of the group to buy a window for the Church of Loretto, which began construction in 1885. It was the first gift by the alumnae to Saint Mary's. 
The year 1905 marked the Golden Jubilee for Saint Mary's College. It was during this cele­bration that the first reunion 

Ceremony 
continued from page 1 
took place. As a jubilee gift to tho college, the alumnae had a $4,000 Kimball organ installed in the convent chapel of Our Lady of Loretto. 
One of the most significant events that took place in the his­tory of Saint Mary's happened in 1916 under Mother Pauline O'Neill, when Stella Hamilton Stapleton, an 1892 graduate, in gratitude for tho birth of her daughter, anonymously present­ed $50,000 to Saint Mary's as a votive offering in Our Lady's name. 
The sisters could now begin to anticipate thn realization of their dream which, within a decade, would be LcMans Hall. Stapleton's gift formed the nucleus of tho building fund, and was the first formal fund­raising in Saint Mary's history. 
In 1931, Mother Pauline retired and Sister Irma Burns took over as the second presi­dent of Saint Mary's College for the next three years. 
During Sister Madcleva's presidency, from 1934-1961, many changes occurred that enabled the College to be where it is today. The department of nursing was founded, the endowment fund continued to grow, ground breaking for the library was underway, and the O'Laughlin Auditorium and Moreau Fine Arts Center were completed. 
According to Sister Madeleva, in Saint Mary's, she found the pattern of' the college she dreamed of and the kind of edu­cation she believed in; here she thought young women were formed, trained, and educated as they should be for the world 
millennium and to welcome the 21st century ­the third century in which Saint Mary's will pre­pare women to make a di!l"erencc in the world." 
Eldred discussed three major priorities that will shape the College. Those are "enhancing curriculum, connecting Saint Mary's to the larg­er community, and strengthening our internal campus community." 
Eldred stressed the amount of leadership that students at Saint Mary's hold. "There is leader­ship fostered in every studerit," she said. "Saint Mary's is life giving and transformable." 
Eldred hopes to extend diverse backgrounds and interests in students. She said that Saint Mary's will continuo maintaining high academic standards. Eldred ended her address by saying "We go forth together as women and men of jubilee." 
of tomorrow. 
After her resignation in 1961, Sister Maria Renata Daily became the College's fourth president. Even though her reign only lasted !'our years, under her direction the new din­ing hall was opened, bus service between Notre Dame and Saint Mary's was lirst implemented, and the 8:30 p.m. curfew on Friday nights was eliminated. 
From the years 1965-1975, the College embraced three new presidents and one acting presi­dent. Sister Mary Grace, Monsignor John McGrath, Professor Edward Henry, the first layman president, and Sister Alma Peter all made sig­nificant contributions to the sue­cess Saint Mary's continues to see today. 
Professor John Duggan became president in 1975 and continued to lead the college for 10 years. During his tenure, ground was broken for the Angela Athletic Facility, the Ireland Program sent its first students overseas, and tho first Madeleva Lecture Series was initiated by the Center for Spirituality. 
William Hickey began his career at Saint Mary's in 1960 and was inaugurated in 1986. The highlight of Hickey's presi­dency was leading Saint Mary's through its sesquicentennial cel­ebration in 1994. 
Hickey announced his resigna­tion in the spring of 1995. The Board of Trustees began an ofli­cial presidential search shortly after, finding Marilou Eldred the leading candidate in tho spring of 1997. 

The faculty processed before the ceremony (above). Monk Malloy extended a welcome on behalf of Notre Dame to Eldred (below). 

ON DAY 
Tuesday, October 7, 1997 
Practice march? 

The Observer/Manuela Hernandez Seniors had the chance to test out the robes and the procession that will be their last as students at graduation in May. 
In,auguration inspires 
•



seniors, visitors 
Many of the members of the class of 1998 felt the inauguration of Eldred has made their senior year even more special. · 
• 
''I think the inauguration was definitely something the school could take pride in. It showed the strong spirit in the Saint Mary's community," said Meg Winkler. 

• 
·"The inauguration strengthened and enriched the Saint Mary's community. It will add to the legacy of Saint Mary's," Heather Nash stated. 

• 
"We are very fortunate that this happened this year. It has made our senior year even more important," Hollis Janowak said. 

• 
"Dr. Eldred is very inspirational for all of us. The ideals she has represented to us are very exciting," Sarah Gillen comment­ed. 

• 
"It is wonderful that when we came in it was the Sesquicentenniallanniversary of the College] and now as we are leaving, we are celebrating the Jubilee. It is a wonderful time to be at Saint Mary's," Tara Mooney said. 

Many distinguished guests of the weekend had strong feelings concerning the inauguration. 

• 
"[The inauguration] was marvelous. How we chose to ce1e­bratethe inaugurationenriched the spiritual tradition and acad­emic tradition. This was definitely a historic moment in our school's history with [Eldred] being the first woman lay person," Linda, Timm, vice president ofStudent Affairs. 


"This has been a unique opportunity for everyone to share in tM celebration," Timmcontinued. 

~·"The inauguration was fantastic. The other colleges' and ulli· versities' support was fudicative of the support Saint Mary's has ·in· the .academic world," said Barb Henry, director of Alunmae Relations; who also served on the inauguration .committe.e, . · 
•• "The celebration was a rich combination of tradition, pageantry and welcome. Marilou is everything that sheappears to be and more," said Judy Griep, friend of Eldred's for over 25 years. 

• 
"She is a very good match for the school;'' said Caleb Christopher, a friend of the Eldred farnUy. 

• 
"1 think. the inauguration both celebrated the past, and. chal­lenged us for the future;" said Sister Linda Kors, direct()r of St1RV, the call1pusservice organization. . . . . ·. . . .. ·. 

• 
"[Saint Mary's copege) tradition speaks not only for the past h:ut also to the future," Richard Yanikoski, president of.Saint Xavier University, . 


• • "The .iti~Jeugurationwas very dignified but with a s(;lnse !lf per• sonalwarmth: Iwas impre,ssed with [Eldred's) background pf .. 4':dicatloiJ .to women," said Paula Auburn, the. alumna represen~ ·J~t~ye of Macalester college. "I liked the theme, Jubilee. It gave a· 
sens(:) of celebration;~ she added. · · · · 
The Observer/Manuela Hernandez 


~~ ---~~-----~~--------~­

INAUGU 
ON DAY 
Tuesday, October 7, 1997 page 5 
Friends of Eldred relate stories of leading woman 
By COLLEEN McCARTHY important in life and now she Members of News Writer can combine it with the mission Eldred's fami­of the college." ly were also Surrounded by ~innds and Bishop John D'Arc)' also willing to add family yesterday. prPsident sharnd 1\engrane's view that insight into Marilou Eldred follow1)d in thc Eldred is the ideal president for the new presi­footsteps of tradition as shp Saint Mary's. "She is a wonder­dent, and began her tenure as tlw 1Oth ful gift to the College and has a emphasized and first lay woman president great sense of the church's that she is of Saint Mary's College. goals involving higher educa­someone who 
The inaugural weekend fes­tion," D'Arcy said. Additionally is decisive and tivities brought together somc D'Arcy expressed a hope that highly orga­of the people who know Eldred would follow in the tra­nized. President Marilou Eldrnd best. dition of those who have come "Marilou is including visiting dignitaries, before hei·. such as Sister a very practi­friends, colleaguns. and family Madcleva. but believed that as cal person. If from across the country. the first lay woman president there is a 
Additionally. Eldn)d and her she will be able to add a unique problem, she guests were abl1• to gain a insight to her newly acquired will head to sense of tlw supportivc l'llVi­role as pmsid1mt. find the ronment of tho Saint Mary's "Saint Mary's best days arc answer right communitv. ahead." D'Arcy added. away," her 
Among those who gathPn)d to Others who have been inter­b r 0 t h e r -i n ­celebratP Eldred's installation acting with Eldred since she law Ron Eldred's daughter Sarah and husband Don greet professors after the inaugural ceremony. 
as president was Colleen was named president include Eldred said. llegranes. vice prPsidl)nt for University of Notre Dame presi­He emphasized that she is open runs a tight ship. All her "This felt like a very personal Student Affairs at the College of dent. Father Edward Malloy. to students and their concerns friends comment on how clean two days. Having family and Saint Catherine. the institution "The qualities that I have and suggested students should the house is." friends here and the welcoming 
that Eldred was previously part seen in her in the past few invite her to stay over in the The past few months have Saint Mary's community added of before coming to Saint months arc freshness, and high residence halls. been filled with excitement and to the personal feeling," she Mary's. levels of energy." Malloy stated. Friends were also on hand change for the Eldred family, stated. Eldred was particularly llegranes has known Eld r1)d "She is somnone who is good on Monday to celebrate Eldred's but the transition has been pleased that the whole college on many diffnrent levels. "Slw lwr feet and has the ability to inauguration. Kathleen Flynn, smooth according to Eldred's participated in events sur­has been my pnrsonal frinnd, instantly make people feel com­who has known Eldred for 20 husband, Don. rounding the inauguration. 
mentor. boss and r.olkagun for fortable." years, emphasized, "She is such "This place is so warm and Looking back, Eldred said 18 years. To tell tl11• truth. I Additionally. in meetings a caring and sharing friend." welcoming. We feel like we are she never imagined that she am a little jnalous of Saint between Holy Cross. Notre Katie Anderson, another part of a big family here at would be the president of a col­
Mary's today." llegranes stat­Dame, and Saint Mary's. Malloy longtime friend of Eldred, Saint Mary's. It's the students legiate institution. ed. said he has observed what he expressed amazement with that make this place so spe­"I always knew I wanted to 
Additionally. from the time called a "neighborly attitude" regard to Eldred's organiza­cial," Don Eldred said. Both work in education and that the that she spent at Saint Mary's, in Eldred regarding her com­tional skills. Eldred's husband and daughter field of education would be llegranes l"elt that Eldn)d is tlw mitment to interacting with the "I believe she is the most agreed that she is extremely important to me," Eldred said. 
ideal person to lead the collcgc other two institutions. Malloy organized person in the entire enthusiastic about her new "When I was sitting up there into the new millonnium. "My was also impressed by what he universe." position as president of SMC during the ceremony, I was observations of Saint Mary's sees as not only a commitment Eldred's 20-year-old daugh­and that it is indeed her dream feeling the emotion of the College is that this is a pNfnct to higher Catholic education, ter Sarah, who attends job. whole event and I began to fit. It is clear to mn that she­but also a deep commitment to Columbia College in Illinois, At the reception following the realize what it means to be the and Saint Mary's an) pnrrect service learning. offered insight that only a inauguration, Eldred reflected leader of an institution, and for each othnr." she said. "She knows what she wants daughter could lend. "My mom on the weekend's events and that you can't do it without all adding that "Marilou has a and wants to achieve it quick­is the cleanest and neatest the atmosphere that surround­of the people who were here great deal of encrgy for what is ly," Malloy said. woman I've ever known. She ed the event. today," Eldred concluded. 

Students react to celebration, College's new legacy 
By P. COLLEEN NUGENT member of the Saint Mary's "I was extremely impressed Saint Mary's Associate News Editor community. with the turnout this week­Senior Ivonne Grantham end," stated junior Katie 
With all the festivities that expressed her feelings about Wheby. "Everyone took the have been taking place at the weekend festivities by events seriously, and the Saint Mary's this past week­stating, "I felt honored to be a changes occurring will be ben­end, the students have had part of such tradition and eficial to us all." many opportunities to actively pride." Junior Ellen Bourdette said, involve themselves in the "Students demonstrated "This was a formal occasion action. their support and dedication that held light humor, which I 
According to most students, toward their school and its feel made it especially enjoy­the weekend went very newly elected tenth presi­able to all the students." smoothly. "I think that every­dent," remarked Angela Throughout the entire week­thing !lowed extremely well," Pompili, a junior. "This is end, students helped to assist senior Becky Novak said. going to be an experience that in the excitement of Eldred's "There were tons of students we can look back upon in the inauguration. present, and the involvement coming years." "I was really impressed with was phenomenal." Members of the senior class this weekend's turnout," said 
Sophomore Katie Cousino and academic procession sophomore Mary Ellen said that the festivities of the members led Eldred into the Blumreich, "for Eldred seems weekend made her even hap­formal ceremony. All involved to be an approachable woman pier and more thankful to be a wore caps and gowns. that's tuned into reality." 


WHO WOULD YOU CHOOSE TO BE THE NEW PRESIDENT OF SAINT MARY'S? 

"Whoever, 

"Lou "I wouldn't 

"My room-
"[Eldred], as long as Holtz." want 

mate." because it isn't 
another 
she's 

Hillary 
presi­
done a 

Clinton." 
dent." 
great job of diversi­fying cam­
pus already." 

Beth Castricone, Ashley Uebelhor, Darah Dial, Bridget Hoffman, Marshawna Moore, Freshman, LeMans Freshman, McCandless Freshman, McCandless Sophomore, LeMans Junior, LeMans 
page 6 The Observer • NEWS Tuesday, October 7, 1997 
Town reinstates alcohol prohibition 
By JIM.CLARKE 
Assodared.Press Wrirer 
ANCHORAGE, Alaska 
At Bev Donahey's substance abuse: treatment center in BarrOW; th~ 18 beds are full and there is awaiting list. And liquor has been banned in the nation:s northernmost city for 20 months. 
"There'sJust a lot of boot­legging going orL I think. you 
· can sellae bpttle of vodka for $15() in Ba,trow," Ms. Donahey said. ··rnthe airport sometimes>you can smell the booze, when abottle breaks in one ofthe boxes> 
"People kind of chuckle but they carrythe boxes out any­way;" 
Five times in the past 11 years, voters have been asked to deCide (lne alcohol-related question or anoth()L In 1994, the City wentdry-, no alcohol allowed; Residents scrapped the ban a year later, only to change their minds after four m:onths. 
On Tuesday, they will make another choice. If a proposal on the ballot is approved, pos­sessing alcohol and bringing it into the city would be legal ~ Barrow w<fuld be "damp,'' with only the >sale of liquor outlawed. 
If voters. authorize the change, Ms, Donahey .said she expects more business at her North Slope Borough treat­ment center. 
Dozens of Alaska villages are dry. and no one disputes that alcohol has caused.tr.ou­ble in Barrow, an i.solated clty 7 20 miles north ofA.llcho:t'ag!L < 
The police ~nd AJ(l;ii~a Native leaders otTer evidence that Barrow's dry periods mean safer streets, safer homes and a healthier. atmos, phere for the city'S,4;3QO resi· 
dents. . . ... ..•••. •.· > •••••··... ··.• Violence dropped sharply. during· thos.e periods, accorli­ing to research l)y Ropert Nash Parker ofthe l.Jp~ver~ity of .California at IHversige. Relying on polic~ reportS from January 1992 throughJune 1996, he found that assaults averaged 23 a month when alcohol was legal and 13 a month when it was not Assaults directly bla}1I'ed on alcohol dropped froi:n .12 to about three .du ·····dry 
months, .far.ke~ siJjd, ·••.. 
· · 
Critiqs>disput0tqe ··•···· . 
Greg Dl1~to,t;t, ~~o pea~s tpt:\ anti-'b~n Ba.rr(JW F'ref1d01ll Committee; doesri;tdonbt t~at the number of reported cril)1eS drops during dry times. Buthe said that's becau~e there are fewer people willingtotalk to police after theY have been 
drinkingillegally; ······• .•• \ > ·· 
·'Prohibition· Mrein Barrow hasn't worked, a].l.d it'~ simply because ther!:i'S still tpo much alcohol getting intp tpwn,·: Dutton said, ...· · .·· .: •.•.·............ 
For many Alaska Natives on the·.North Slope, keeping ~Iqo· hol out of. their hon:tes is cru­cial to preserving &way oflife under assault byJh~ modern world. 
• GRADUATE SnmENT UN10N 
Survey to probe need for space 
By MATTHEW LOUGHRAN 
Associate News Editor 
Joe Cassidy, the director of Student Activities, discussed the upcoming survey on stu­dent social space with the Graduate Student Council at its meeting last night. 
"The survey is going out to a 20 percent random sample of the students," Cassidy said. "It is the most extensive amount of input that the oflicers .have ever asked for on the subject of social space." 
Because of that, he urged the representatives to push their colleagues to fill out and return the surveys. 
Cassidy also fielded ques­tions from the mnrnbers of the GSC about the extent of space available to graduate stu­dents. "! can't say exactly what will be granted to gradu­ate students," he said. "But 4,000 square feet will be opening up in ILaFortune Student Center] over the sum­mer." He indicated that the space available would come from moving the offices of The Observer, Scholastic, The Dome and The Juggler. 
The Graduate Student Union has applied for more office space every year since they moved into their current space at 219 LaFortune in 1993. 


The Observer/Alan McWalters 

Joe Cassidy spoke about the possibility of space for the GSU. 


JAZZMAN's 

NITE CLUB 
525 N. Hill Street 233-8505 
' . .LLEGE IGHTS OCTOBER 9TH FEATURING SHOOTING CUPID 
(S PCS. BAND) 
Doors open 8:00 p.m. 21 and over with proper ID's $2.00 with College ID -$4.00 without Off Duty Uniform Police Security ­Lighted Parking 
Save $1.00 with this ad before 11:00 pm 
Coming Friday, Oct. 10 STOMP£R BOB With Guest Band From Delaware V£LV£T T££ (5 pes. Ska Band) Thursday October 16 FLORIDA £VANS SHOW BAND & REVU£ 233-8505 


••••o•o• Notre Dame Center for Ethics and Religious 255 College of Business Administration 
University of Notre Dame Notre Dame, IN 46556-0399 (219) 631-6072/ 6685/5761 • Fax (219) 631-5255 
1111°11 Values in Business 

TUESDAY, OCTOBER 7 WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 8 
9:00a.m. Session 5: What Can We Learn from !he Caux Principles? 9:00a.m. Session 'J: 1fle /lesearc/J 'l!wt Hemains 
Gerald 1'. Cavanagh. S.J.. C:aux Principles faeilitator. 
Anne E. Tenbrunsel, Editor. Corles of Conduct: !Jeluwioral 1/esearch into Business lithic'S, "Executives' Code or Business Con duet: l'rospnets for tho Crwx l'rin<'iples" 
. University or Notre Dame: "lmplonwnting Codes of Conduct. A lll>havioral Porspet:tivo" Kenneth E. Goodpaster. Caux Principles msoun:e person. 
S. Prakash Sethi. Author or Scaling the Corporate Wall. Baruch College School of Businnss• "Corporatn Conscinnee in a (;lobal Business Environmnnt: Thn Cuux l'rineiplos" 
"Gaps in tlw Scareh in tho Formulation. lmplmnentalion, and Efrectivoness or International Codes ol' Conduct 
10:45 a.m. Ses,~ion 6: Prospects for a Global Code ofConduct 
10.45 a.m. Session 10: Where !Jo We Go from Here'! 
Ruth Rosenbaum. T.C., Co-Chair, Global Corporate /\ceountability lssun r;roup, ICCit: "In Whose Interest? The Purpose or a Global Code of Condur-t" 
John S. North, Director, Intnrnational Helations, Eli Lilly and Company David Schilling, Director. Global Corporate Accountability, JCCH: ()avid E. Collins, retired Executive Vkc President of Sdwring-Plough Corporation and "Making Codes Credibk The Hole of Independent Monitoring" 
David Shilling, former Vice Chairman of Johnson & Johnson during the Tylenol crisis. James E. Post, Mmnbor of the Nnsth! Infant Formula Audit Commission, Boston University. 2:30p.m. Session 7: Learning from Other Areas John M. Kline, Director. Karl F. l.andegger Pmgram in International Business Diplomacy. Goorgetown University. 
Georges Enderle. Vice President of tho International Society of liusiness. Economics Pharis J. Harvey, Exncutive Director, International Labor Bights Fund. and Ethies (ISBEEl. University of Notre llame•"Ethieal GuidclilltlS for the 1\efornt ofStatn­Owned Enterprises in China" 
James E. Post, Member or the Ntlsth\ Infant Formula Audit Commission, Boston University: "Global Codes of Conduct. Activists, Lawyers, and Managers in Search of a Solution" 
Oliver F. Williams, C.S.C., Mr.mber ol' the National Advisory Council to the U.S. Companies in South Africa (Sullivan Principles,) University of Notre Dame: "What Can We Learn from the Sullivan Prineiples in South Africa?" 
4:30p.m Session 8: Bribery and Corruption: Enforcement in the Global Communlt!J (Jordan Auditorium, Collr.ge or Business Administration) 
Kathleen A. Getz, Department or Management American University: "International instruments un Bribery and Corruption" 


.. -w
--~--------~-----~· 
Tuesday, October 7, 1997 The Observer • page 7 
• GERMANY 

German cops take tips from NYPD 
By ANNE THOMPSON 
Associated Press Writer 
BEHUN 
It's 10 p.m. at the Kottbusser Tor: sprawling intersection, major subway stop and gateway to one of Berlin's shadiest neighborhoods. 
Graffiti covers buildings like wallpaper. Trash spills from smashed containers. Young toughs wearing leather jackets and drinking beer stroll the dimly lighted plaza like they own it -which thPy pretty much do -while the few other pedestrians scatter from the subway at a brisk dip. 
Anyone who might feel uneasy here has few options for reas­surance. There isn't a cop in sight. But that, police say, is about to change. 
Confronted with rising num­bers of robberies and overall violence. police in Berlin and other German citins an• rethink­ing how they right crime with cues from abroad -from the boys in blUf~ of the New York Police Department. 
Politicians call it "Action Security Net," a German wrsion of New York's stratPgies for tracking criminals with high­tech tools and sweeping neigh­borhoods with beefed-up foot and car patrols. 
Certainly, crime in Germany is nothing like that in the United States. All of Germany, with a population of about 80 million, had only 1,184 homicides in 1996 -304 of them in Berlin ­while New York City alone recorded 983 killings. 
Even Kottbusser Tor, with its drug dealers, Turkish gangs, prostitutes and skinheads, beeomes a friendly place by day, with a bustling outdoor market. 
But since the fall of the Berlin Wall in 1989, organized crime, youth gangs and drug traffick­ing have become major German worries, replacing the threats of communism, espionage and ter­rorism. 
More and more, New York City -which in the past three years has cut its murder rate in half -is seen as holding the k!)y. 
William Bratton, a former New York police commissioner and now a globe-trotting crime­lighting consultant, was invited to Berlin this summer to talk to cops about American methods 



DUBLIN, IRELAND 
Informational Meeting Wednesday, October 8, 1997 4:45p.m. 129 DeBartolo 
All Sophomores (AL, BA, SCI, ENG) Are Welcome 
of fighting crime. Soon after, on Sept. 8, Interior Minister Manfred Kanther announced his "Security Net" plan. 
And with that, the role of police became a topic of fre­quent news media debate. 
Is crime really that bad? And if so, some wonder if stronger police vigilance is the answer in unified, post-Hitler Germany, where authority and how it behaves is still a sensitive busi­ness. 
Bratton said that during his talks here he sensed a reluc­tance about letting police aggressively fight crime. "There's more of a concern of what the world thinks of Germany than what Germans think of their own cities," he said. 
On the national level, Kanther wants to install a computer so Germany's 16 states can share information about criminals. That way, a Hamburg drug dealer who gets stopped for jay­walking in Frankfurt won't just be given a ticket and set free. 
Even that seemingly obvious approach would be revolution­ary for Germany, which decen­tralized its government after the war -putting the capital in Bonn, the courts in Karlsruhe, the banks in Frankfurt -as a way of taming the once-sinister German efficiency. 
Another revolution may hap­pen at the local level, where cities want more cops out polic­ing the streets to head off crimes instead of sitting at desks investigating crimes after they happen or handling paper­work. 
According to the New York theory, signs of disorder-graf­fiti, open drug dealing, sleeping and urinating on the sidewalks -encourage criminals and intimidate residents. When cops fight small crimes, the theory goes, they help eliminate big crimes, too. 

Today, Tuesday, October 7 For tin1e and location of Ineeting, call: l-8041 NDLGS Group Advisors: Fr. Tom Gaughan, C.S.C 
Sr.Mary Louise Gude, C.S.C. 
All Meetings are private and confidential. 
, those traditional were refmed by cigar in Cuba in ways that .. affect cigar taste. Cruz 
t.,..,,...,,.,;,...« Cuban pro­t .....h.-.i"'"'"""', Philippine "'"'Jl'"''·u"'" are modeling 
s methods on the 

page 8 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT Tuesday, October 7, 1997 


+ Campus Ministry This Week + 



OFFICE OF CAMPUS MINISTRY 
103 Hesburgh Library: 631-7800 112 Badin Hall: 631-5242 Basilica Offices: 631-8463 
Campus Bible Study 
Tuesdays, 7:00pm, Campus Ministry-Badin Hall All are welcome! 

Misa En Espanol -Spanish Mass 
Sunday, October 12, 1:30pm, Stanford-Keenan Chapel Celebrante: Padre David Scheidler, esc 

Notre Dame Encounter Retreat Sign-up for Retreat #48 (Nov. 14-16) 
Monday-Friday, October 13-17, 103 Hesburgh Library 

Pan Dulce y Jugo 
Latino students and friends are welcome to come and enjoy pan dulce and juice on Tuesdays, 7:30-10:00 p.m. in 103 Hesburgh Library with Fr. Neary for conversation and a study break. 

Respect Life Week 
Co-Sponsored with Right to Life -ND 
Tuesday, October 7-TODAY! 
6:45 pm,Grotto: Pro-Life Rosary and Adoration 8:00pm, Walsh Hall Chapel, "End-of-Life Decisions: the Catholic Response", 
Fr. Mark Poorman,C.S.C., Associate Professor of Theology Music by the Notre Dame Folk Choir 
Wednesday, October 8 8:00pm, Fieldhouse Mall: Litany for Life with Fr. Jim Lies, C.S.C. 
Thursday, October 9 
8:00pm, Walsh Hall Chapel, "Beginning-of-Life Decisions: A Personal Response", Tammy Groeke, cancer patient from South Bend, will share her personal story about carrying her pregnancy to full term despite the risks. Music by Coro Primavera de Nuestra Senora 
Sunday, October 12 8:00pm, Walsh Hall Chapel, "Capital Punishment: The Catholic Response", Charles Rice, Law School Professor Music by Voices of Faith Gospel Choir 
page 9 

Tuesday, October 7, 1997 The Observer· INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
ByJIM HEINTZ Associated Press Wrirer 
STOCKHOLM 
An American biologist who discovered a new class of germ that causes "mad cow" disease and other brain-wast­ing conditions won the Nobel Prize in medicine today. 
Stanley B. Prusiner of the University of California, San Francisco, was cited for his discovery of prions, "an entirely new genre of disease­causing agents.... Prusiner has added prions to the !1st of well-known infectious agents, including bacteria, viruses, fungi and parasites." 
The finding was controver­sial because prions, unlike other germs, contain no gBnet­ic material; they arc simply proteins. Prions are believed to eause a group of degenera­tivo brain diseases, including so-called mad cow disease. 
The prize, worth $1 million, is awarded by Sweden's renowned Karolinska Institute. Last year, the British government warned that eat­tie with so-called mad eow disease were the most likely cause or a variant of' Crcutzfcldt-Jakob disr,asc in people. The cattle were 

• THE NETHERLANDS 
Rejected asylum seekers in 'legal limbo' 
By MIKE CORDER 
Associated Press Writer 
DWINGELOO, The Netherlands 
Huddled in tents, sleeping beneath Red Cross blankets, 18 unwilling campers look like refugees from war or famine. 
They are asylum seekers rejected both by the Dutch gov­ernment and by authorities in their homelands. Living in a legal limbo, they say they have nowhere else to go. 
The Dutch tradition of shelter­ing the needy and persecuted is being pushed down the political agenda in the Netherlands while the government concentrates on strengthening the economy. And increasingly, it is the religious community that holds out the safety net for the shunned. 
In Rotterdam, a Dutch cleric provides warm and dry rooms for local junkies to inject their daily ftx. He even started sup­plying low-cost heroin for some of his guests until local authori­ties got wind of it and ordered him to stop. 
Earlier this year, a Roman Catholic bishop said it was morally acceptable for poor par­ents to steal bread to feed their children. 
John van Tilborg, director of a group that aids people seeking asylum, helped set up the camp for the stateless refugees because, he charged, the gov­ernment left them to fend for themselves. 
"The government has billions of extra guilders and yet they are dumping people at the rail­way station to rot," Van Tilborg said. "If I leave my dog in a for­est, the justice department will come after me, but the justice department is dumping these people on the street." 
There are some 2,000 people in the Netherlands who arrived without identity and travel docu­ments from countries that dis­owned them. only to have their requests for asylum rejected in a Catch-22: Without papers, they can't leave the country ­yet they aren't allowed to stay. 
In July, Li Yue, a 21-year-old Chinese mother in that predica­ment, was deposited by immi­gration authorities at the Arnhem rail station with her husband and two young daugh­ters. 
Now she sits out her days in the tent camp with her daugh­ters, who spend their time play­ing with toys donated by local families. 
"We just have to wait," she 
said in faltering Dutch learned 
while going through the asylum 
process. 

A desire to highlight the prob­
lem -and a shortage of volun­
teers willing to accommodate 
the asylum seekers -led the 
Dutch Council of Churches to 
finance the camp. 
"As long as people put these 
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME Summer Engineering Program Foreign Study in London, England 
INFORMATION MEETING: Wednesday, October 8, 1997 Room 356 Fitzpatrick Hall 7:00p.m. 

J~t~~j 
~ 
\J!~Y 

ALL ENGINEERING STUDENTS WELCOME! 
refugees up in their homes, the public knows nothing. These people were invisible in our society," said the camp's coordi­nator, Evert Kraal. 
Since mid-September, 18 peo­ple have made their home in the camp in a forest clearing at the end of a long dirt track in Dwingeloo, 110 miles northwest of Amsterdam. Seven tents sur­round a small wooden shed that houses a dining room and kitchen. There is also a small toilet block. 
The camp has drawn fierce criticism from the government, which accuses the Council of Churches of offering false hope to asylum seekers. 
"This action creates the impression that there is a solu­tion for people who have been rejected," Justice Secretary Elizabeth Schmitz said. 
"These people can go home 
and get help from us, but they 
do not want to go back," she 
added. 
Not so, said Manzar Hashim, a 
22-year-old ethnic Bihari from 
Bangladesh. 
After his asylum application 
was turned down, Hashim said, 
he personally applied to the 
Pakistani, Bangladeshi and 
Indian embassies for permission 
to live in those countries. All 
three rejected him. 
"Being here is better than 
being on the street," he said. 
As he spoke, local parish­
ioners arrived with warm coats 
for the campers, a baby's high 
chair and loaves of bread. 
Chinese refugees were busy 
preparing a meal of chicken 
soup in the rudimentary 
kitchen. 
The Council of Churches 
admits setting up the camp was 
a deliberately provocative ges­
ture, but says it was necessary. 
"We are just giving these peo­
ple a roof over their heads 
which they wouldn't have other­
wise," said Kraal, the camp 
coordinator. 
On Oct. 4, 20 extreme right­
ists from the People's National 
Netherlands MO'Vement marched 
to the camp shouting: "Illegal ­
end of story!" 




Interested in consulting? 
martin + co, we seek to add  and demonstrated involvement in extra­ 
clients and help them  curricular activities are encouraged to  
enabling our consultants  sign up for our upcoming campus inter­ 
learn new skills and  views and attend our next information  
Weare  session. To find out more about james  
a~~~~p:;~~:~~rz!'~:""n'nm>rt consultingfi in partnering with  martin + co, please contact your career placement office or visit our Web site at  
our dients to create technology and  http://www.jamesmartin .com  
busine~ solutions that meet their needs. We have approximately 700  We are an equal opportunity employer.  
employees worldwide and are  
currently looking for top college graduates for our Midwest practice  University of Notre Dame  
based io Chicago.  Corporate Presentation  
Although we 9re a global organization, ' ot~r l'l:JQdera!e size allows us to foster  October 9, 1997 LaFortune Student Center. The Foster Rm.  
yq~tcarE~E~r development in an individ­ualand personal manner, while at the same time offering you greater respon­ On-Campus Interviews October 10, 1997  
(ttift:Ir:::  sibillty early on in your career.  
seeking motivated, problem­ 
individuals who are willing  
and who have  interests  
·  and  
~arlCIIO<Ites with slf{>AG·,ilC<idemic  

Everyone is welcome to join in the celebration of the Feast of the Holy Rosary with Adoration and Rosary on Tuesday, October 7 starting at 6:45 p.m. at the Grotto 

Sponsored &y: 
Children of Mary & Knights of the 

0MPUS 
Immaculata 
MINISTRY

l]\<:spcct 'l[c 'Week 
~-~­


VIEWPOINT 
page 10 Tuesday, October 7, 1997 

THE OBSERVER 
NoTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (2I9) 631-7471 SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1997-98 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief 
Brad Prendergast 
Managing Edi[Or Business Manager 
Jamie Heisler Tom Roland 
Assistant Managing Editor 
Dan Cichalski News Editor... . ..... Heather Cocks Advertising .f\.1anager........................... Jed Perers Viewpoint Editor ...................... Kelly Brooks Ad Design Manager... ...Jennifer Breslow Sports Editor ................................. Mike Day Production Manager ........................ Mark DeBoy Accent Editor.......................... Joey CrawfOrd Systems Manager ... Michael Brouillet Saint Mary's Editor ..................... Lori Allen Controller. ............... Kyle Carlin Photo Editor . . ............ Karie Kroener 
The Observer is rhe independent newspaper published by rhe smdents of rhe University of Notre Dame duLac and Sainr Mary's College. lr does not necessarily rdlccr the policies of the adminisnation ofeither instirurion. The news is reponed as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represenr the opinion of rhe majoriry of rhe "Ediwr-in-Chid~ Managing Editor, Assisram Managing Ediror, News Edimr, Viewpoim Edi[Or, Spans Editor, Accenr Ediror, Sainr Mary's Editor, Pharo Editor, and Associare News Editor. Commenraries. leners and ln~ide Columns presem rhe views of rhe aurhors, and nor neces· sarily rhose ofThe Observer. Viewpoint space is availablt: to all members of rhe Norre Dame/Sainr Mary'~ community and ro all readers. The free expression of varying opinion.~ rhrough letters is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 
Editor-in-Chief 631-4542 Business Oltlce 631-531.1 Managing Editor 631-4541 Advertising 631-6900/8840 News/Phoco 631-5323 System> 6.) 1-8839 Sports 631-4543 Oftke Manager 631-7471 Accenc/Saint Marv's 631-4 540 Fax 631-6927 Day Editor/Viewpoint 631-5303 Viewpoint E-Mail Viewpoinr.l @nd.edu General Information 631-7471 Ad E-Mail observer@darwin.cc.nd.edu 
• ALL Asmn You 
Setting the Land Speed Record, and Paying For It 

8.0.1 Hei?£''3 MYPRO&£Atf:fi£ 
IJJ~H4V£ 
CI/&U, '3/R, CIIE: IT'5 THE ENTERTAIN­
HAVC: A FOOTBAL-l. f'RCJGMJ.1 
7lJFINOA 
MI&/IT "?lJJRTBY MENT TRINITY, ?IR.
?0 BAO U/6. CAN'TCI-/A/il3C 
UIAYTO 
~£ttl!v'6 BEER fJJIIAT~ VIOUNCE
~£~ ANOI NaP T!-I(Y3£ 
FlU THAT 
ANP B&NGI!v'G «JilHOUT !J£X
~tiE~ FORMYBOT!()MVN~' 
?U!Jit!M, 
8ACI(~-ANP AU:CWOl7 
'70NI L.£A/?6R5. 
"Think where man's 
glory most begins and ends, and say my glory was I had such friends." 

-----~-~----------------------­


VIEWPOINT
Tuesday, October 7, 1997 page 11 
• lETIERS TO THE EDITOR 

Under the Covers 

After reading Dan McDonough's column last Friday about the lack of respect associated with musi­dans covering other musi­cians, I felt inclined to respond. John Coltrane, arguably one of the greatest musicians to play America's true musie-jazz-would play Rodgers and llammersl.ein's "My Favorite Things" for over an hour. One of the most original "rock-n­roll" bands to ever play, the Grateful Dead, who covered Bob Dylan every time I saw them, also covnmd !larry Bellafonte, Merle I laggard, Chuck Berry, and Buddy llolly. Johnny Cash has covered Soundgarden; Nirvana released an album of mostly covers. And since Dan men­tioned Phish. well, th11y have covered the complete Beatles' White Album, the Talking Heads (who covered AI Grc~en on "Take me to the 1\iver"). Bette Midler, Prince, Syd Barrett. ZZTop, and Duke Ellington, to name a few. 
Why have these artists cov­ered other musicians? Well, I can come up with a couple or reasons. One, they like the song. They look for the dutl­lenge of trying to play another artist's work, and do it suc­cessfullv. In the ease of Coltrantl, he took a well­known melody, and completely restructured it and stnltched it out to epic proportions. A cover can also be looked at as a homage to an artist who has influenced tlw particular band, as in Phish's tradition of Halloween shows. For the past three Halloweens, Phish has played a complete album by the Beatles, the Who, and the Talking Heads, savoring the challenge and acknowledging bands that have shaped their music. 
As for college bands, the answer may lie with the pre­ceding two explanations, but I think there is one more factor. Unless a college band is extremely prolific, it may only have 20 or so original songs, if that. In order to fill up two sets of music, and to keep the patrons of drinking establish­ments interested, covers become part of the set lists. 
Covers are songs people rec­ognize, and get excited for, and actually attract fans to particular bands. They also act as platforms on which bands can play original music. 
I guess I have been a little long-winded, but I do not think McDonough was fair or accurate in his column. No, I was not there that night. And no, I am not affiliated with any campus band but to say that "playing covers is a cop out" is a great generalization. Take me to a Zen Trickster show any day; as a Dead cover band, that is the only way to !)xperience the Dead's music live any more. And yes, they can play. 
Jeremy Welsh Fifth-year Architecture ?tudent October 6, 1997 
Selling Out to Whom? 
Did you see today's (Oct. 5) Chicago Tribune? Ron Powlus is quoted as saying "I sold out (by not turning pro) to come back here for a fifth year." It leads one to wonder to whom Powlus sold out. It's understandable that at a school such as Notre Dame an individual could interpret the natural law and think he has the "God-given" right to start. Alas, this is purely delusional thinking, and we feel any individual that believes this should seek professional help. 
If our memories can be trusted, Powlus has not performed well enough to earn a spot in the pan­theon of great Notre Dame quarterbacks, let alone great college quarterbacks. For instance, last year Barnes of Cal, Druckenmiller of Virginia Tech, Plummer of ASU, Wuerffel of Florida, and Richardson of Penn State were all arguably better than Powlus. Moreover, according to knowledge­able pro scouts, Manning of Tennessee, Craig of Auburn, Culpepper ofUCF, Huard of Washington, and Leaf of Washington State are all better prospects than Powlus this year. Passing efficien­cy ratings published on the ESPN Web site (to the nit-pickers it might be important to note that this does not include Saturday's stats) rank Ron Powlus as the 49th best quarterback in Division I­A football, placing him behind passing giants like Jay Rodgers of Indiana and Freddie Kitchens of Alabama. Maybe Ron should update his passport; we understand that the Barcelona Dragons are looking for a starting quarterback. (l,Habla espaii.ol, Ron?) 
In this day and age of athletes jumping to the pros after one or two years of college ball, the loy­alty that Powlus has demonstrated towards Notre Dame is commendable. However, two questions beg to be asked: (1) Has Ron's play impacted the Irish football team in a positive way'? And (2) has Powlus' play this year improved his pro prospects'? After watching the first five games of the Notre Dame season, it would seem that Powlus is putting up career numbers. However, watching him perform in Jim Colleto's more "modern" offense (We'll give Jim the benefit of the doubt in this letter), Powlus has demonstrated four glaring weaknesses: (1) An inability to put the ball into the end zone. (2) An inability to find the open receiver on crossing routes or in the middle of the field. (3) A lack of poise and maturi­ty needed to lead a team from behind. And (4) an utter inability to win consistently. 
If Powlus has truly "sold out," we would certain­ly like to know the compensation he received from Bob Davie for his services. And we would like to offer a warning to anyone that might have further business dealings with Ron. Our warning: don't buy a used car from this man. You might get a lemon. 
Go Irish! 
Andrew Blum Paul D. Mueller Fischer Graduate Residences October 5, 1997 



The True Fan Strikes 
Before Saturday's game, I was referred to as a "social" fan. The label didn't upset me as much as who it came from. This person had nothing posi­tive to say about Notre Dame football all year, and he had the nerve to call me a social fan. He did so because I was optimistic about our team. Later in the conversation, I learned that he was referring to a concept pre­sented in Friday's "Jock Strip." I hadn't read it; so, I picked up a copy and quickly became dis­gusted with Brtalik's definitions of "social" and "true" fans. 
What Brtalik has overlooked is the distinction between "true" fans and "fair-weather" fans. While his definition of a social fan may be right on the money, he has wrongfully termed all of the naysayers as true fans of Notre Dame foot­ball. Have the phrases "uncon­ditional support" and "in good times and bad" ever crossed his mind? 
By Brtalik's standards, I by no means fit the "social" fan mold; however, I do not totally fit his description of a "true" fan either. I can identify almost every player; I watch every play with a careful eye; I can identi­fy bad coaching; and I am defi­nitely disappointed with the team after every loss. During the games, I am not overly con­cerned with the cheers, though I do see it lit to participate. • Under no circumstances, how­ever, do I boo my football team. Ron Powlus may expect boos after the team fails to perform up to its standards, but I don't believe he wants to hear them. Isn't it enough that he has the pressure of a nation full of Notre Dame fans and alumni on his shoulders? Certainly, those fans booing him does not make the load any lighter. 
Brtalik also believes that "the true fans deserve the right to criticize the team when they want ... [and when they] jeer they do it for a reason, they expect greatness." What else can I say except that I totally disagree. At the Michigan State game, we had enough Spartan fans opposing our team. What did booing Notre Dame accom­plish? It proved nothing but added victory for the Spartans. Michigan State came into our stadium and not only beat our football team but beat our fans also. In my opinion, a true fan would not allow this to happen. True fans would show pride in their team at all times, not just when it is winning. 
Well, according to Brtalik, the true fans don't have time to cheer. While the so called "social" fans are doing the "Star Wars" cheer or the new Bob Davie cheer, the "true" fans are "trying to figure out what the team needs to do in order to score." What, then, does this accomplish? Are these "true" fans going to run in emergency plans that they have just conjured up? Instead of expending their energy on futile deliberations, perhaps these "true" fans should act like real fans. Show your sup­port for the team. Cheer on the team and the coaches, and let them know what you think they are capable of. If the team's "true" fans won't show that they have faith in them, their faith in themselves will disap­pear. 
The bottom line is that a fan's job is to support his/her team. Booing and criticism do nothing but diminish this support. A friend of mine said that he boos our team because he cares. What then would he do to a team he doesn't care about? I know when I boo or criticize opposing players it's because I don't like them, and I am not a fan of theirs. If you're going to call yourself a "true" fan, sup­port the team. Your criticism and jeering do nothing but destroy the morale of our team. Ifyou're going to boo the team now, don't cheer them when they're winning. That's far from being a "true" fan. 
Rachel T abangcura Sophomore, Cavanaugh Hall October 5, I 997 

;ACCE,NT
page 12 Tuesday, October 7, 1997 







WIMGIM' GIM' #.MD GITTIM' 

··~ 

FoLk C.ao1a 
The "Folk" in Folk Choir does not really refer to the type of music this' singing group performs but to the spirit of the group as being for and of the people. 
The group, which is composed primarily of undergraduates, performs music from around the world. Though the members do sing a capella, most of their arrangements use violin, flute and organ. Folk Choir is unique in its emphasis on spirituality. All of its music is liturgically based, the members go on retreat together, all of their performances are in churches of some kind ,and while touring they view themselves more as ministers than performers. The group performs every Sunday at 11:45 a.m. at the Basilica and will be performing at the Walsh Hall Respect Life Mass next Monday. 
Fourth-year member Alex Scheidler says of the group's music: "It gives life. It transmits life." 


CLII C.LUB 

You may have seen them dining at the "Last Suppm·" table in South Dining Hall? Who are these men? 
The Glee Club, one of the finest all-male collegiate choral gr,oups in the country, is over 80 years old. The group is fraternal in nature and combines intensive study of vocal techniques and musical style with over 100 concerts per year and various social activities. The Glee Club tours all over the coun­ty and will head to New England this fall. Last summer the Glee Club per­formed in Israel and every third summer the club tours Europe. During the year the Glee Club has four major concerts, in the fall, at Christmas, in the spt·ing and at commencement. Some of the Glee Club's smaller concerts include ND in Review (Saturday mornings before home football games), as well as Singing Valentine's and Christmas Caroling at the women's dorms of Saint Mary's and Notre Dame. 
The Glee Club has made several recordings. These include From the Heart, a collection of spirituals and love songs; Shake Down the Thunder, a collection of school and football fight songs; On Christmas Night; Music From the Basilica; a collection of Renaissance selections; A 'Caroling; Wake Up the Echoes, school songs; Gate of Heaven, more school songs. The Glee Club has been featured with other groups on the idbums One Voice and Home For Christmas. 
Auditions for the Glee Club are held the first week of the fall semester and at the beginning of the spring semester. The group is run by a director and seven student of'licers. 
Since its founding in 1915, the Glee Club has had over 2,000 members. 
Tuesday, October 7, 1997 page 13
ACCENT 



··e:b·= ~m=l'~t=·e:
. . . ~~ . . . 



·e=e=k·· 
By HEATHER CROSS 
Accent Writer 
W
here can you lind over 10 varieties of bubblewrap, and sample popping each nne? On the Web, of course. This week's spotlight Web site is http://atom.co.jp/UNSOUN D/Actuai/Proliles. 
Yes. bubblewrap ... lh~memlwr when you were enthralled with these pockets of air encapsulated in thin plastic'? llow you would press, tug, twist, and otherwise attempt to destroy this lovely parking nmterial. just to hear the loud "pop! pop! pop!", or better yet, to annoy siblings and pan~nts'' Wnll. folks, if your supply of bubblewrap has been lack­ing in your years of collPgn. rwvnr l't~ar, because the Internet has the answer! 
It's true: somPotw crPalPd a WPb sitP dnvotnd nntirPly to bpb­blewrap. All variPtit•s' All colors! It's a bubblewrap popppr's drnam. First orr. tht•rp's tlw S!'C­tion entitled "Bubblnwrap SpPrimens of tlw World," and true to its ruune. it ol'l'nrs the obviously very borpd \\'Pb suri'Pr tlw opportunity to S<'P and sam­ple a wide variety of wrap. TherP arn thn~e i\nwrican variPtins, two Japanese and -for tlw real­ly daring bubblnwrap fan ­tlwn• are exotic species surh as tlw Bt>lgian, Australian. Italian and Chirwst~. My personal l'avorit<'. howevt>r is Kon•an bub­blewrap. 
llow, you ask, dons tlll<' actual­ly "sample" virtual bubbiPwrap? WPII. my friend, it's quite simpln. First. click on the link to a wrap that sounds interesting (i\nwrican Classic is a good start­ing point). Then, be mesmerized as a dntailed graphic reveals the intricacies of the bubbles, and the texture of the plastic. Finally. 

just when you can no longc~r stand tlw sight and silence of un-popped wrap, comes the box. The sound box, that is. By pn~ssing play, you can expcrhmc.c the wonderful sound of bubblewrap. 
But bPl'ore you rush off to pop some virtual wrap, here are a few tips to make your popping experience as pleasant as possible. First, make sme the sound is on, and turned way up. This is especially important il' you have roommates present and/or sleeping. Hmnember, nne of the virtues of bubblewrap is its uncanny ability to annoy, and because 
liiii---,.-.------~--;::------..---------, you may not have any sib I i ngshttp.•//atom readily available. a roommate is 
a good substitute. If in the com­puter lab, follow the same proce­dures. Second, don't rush the 
.co.J•p/UNso experience. Sample the varieties! 
UN D/Actu a I 
Read the testimonials of "how bubblcwrap changed my life!" In short, let bubblewrap work its magic. And finally, a word of 
warning: do not. under any cir­cumstances. visit the link labeled "Bubblewrap Jacket." 
/prof.ll es 
For those of you who aren't amused by bubblewrap {though I imagine there are fow of you), I have two other sites which may inter·est you. First, if' your appetito !'or completely gross and disgusting hasn't been satis­fied by the dining hall, may I suggest the infamous exploding whale -along with a three-minutn video elip and a surpnsmg number of links: http://www.es.uorcgon,edufhacks/mise/whale. And if that doesn't amuse you, lwre's something that might. An enterprising company. called Lands of the Universe. is selling real estate-on Mars. You can buy a four-square mile plot of' land along with a personalized map for the basement bargain price of only $19.95. But wait, there's more! If' you are a gullible person. or are researching what attm" tho guiHblc, vbtt hltpo//land,ortheunlve.-s<Lrom. ~ 
en 
= 
I 
cc ' E E 
= 
, 







= >­
..................
T
c.:»
• 
... 
en 
= 
= 
3: 

>­= = c: 
E 
I I 
= = 

...I 

Dear Lola, 
I'm losing my mind and nobody cares! This afternoon I had the most exhausting encounter with Financial Aid. They say they care about the special circumstances sur­rounding financial situations, but they don't. They just really don't. It's all about the numbers and that damn Profile thing you fill out in February. I felt as if I were talking to a brick wall. Why do they insist on making our lives so difficult?! As if we had the time and energy to put up with this crap. I may not be able to return sec­ond semester because of the stunt they're pulling on me. What should I do? 
-Helpless in Howard 

Dear Helpless, 
l feel your pain. Financial Aid has got ~orne serious sensitivity issues with which they need to deal. I don't know the details of your situation, but my advice to you is to collect as much paperwork as you can. They are indeed an office operated by calculations as opposed to compassion, and, as in anything in life, if you want to communicate you gotta speak the language. Loans, bills, medical and legal expenses, tax forms. anything you can document as a serious hindrance to financing your education will help the third floor of Grace to bet­ter understand you. Something else to ponder: spend some time with the Man Upstairs. The power of prayer, when fueled by faith, is truly something amazing. Good luck. 
Dear Lola. 
My roommate is driving me absolutely bananas. We have completely opposite study schedules, and when I need peace he is always either blasting the radio or gabbing on the phone to his mommy. I ask him to at least go in the hall, but he claims it's his room too. He's also got this girlfriend from B.P. who is just annoying as hell, and I'm the one who has to leave when she comes over (which is like, three times a day). We're freshmen, so we had no choice in the matter. Help! 
_Miserable in Morrissey 

Dear Miserable, 
Yikes. You've got quite a headache there, my friend. It sounds as if things aren't bad enough to request a room change (they rarely grant them anyway). but you can have a chat with Mr. Considerate. I know communicat­ing difficulties is, well, difficult, but if you guys don't say something soon, you will inevitably have a real fight. You have to spend the next eight months with this char­acter, so you might as well smooth the path. Ask him to let you know when the Yo-Cream Queen shall be g:ac­ing you with her presence so you can plan around rt instead of being put on the spot. Set up some rules about study time. Lastly, check out that 101 Ways to Annoy Your Roommate forward that is whizzing through cyberspace. It's quite amusing. Good luck. 

Got problems? Are your friends tired of hearing about them? Ask Lola. 
Please mail (or drop ofO your questions to Ask Lola, Accent Department, The Observer, 314 LaFortune, or e-mail the advice doctah at gaughen.l@nd.edu. 
.. 
_< 

..------~-~-­
-~ 
page 14 The Observer • SPORTS Tuesday, October 7, 1997 
• COU.EGE FOOTBAll • MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL 
Air Force seeks military title Neagle still looking to 
By SAMANTHA STEVENSON designed a decal for the play­and recruit neighborhood kids Associated Press Writer ers' watches that lists three for a football game. He played 
pitch in post -season 
..

goals for the team: ClC, WAC, on a St. Ignatius High School 
As unbeaten Air Force pre­BOWL. team that earned national hon­By PAUL NEWBERRY first two games and could play Associated Press Writer a vital role since Alan Embree
pares to face service-rival Navy "The goals are Commander­ors and state championships. 
is the only left-handed reliever
on Saturday, Chris Gizzi, the in-Chief Trophy, a Western "My dad was my role model," Falcons' senior inside line­Athletic championship, and a Gizzi said. "He taught me to ATlANTA on the Braves' postseason ros­backer. has vowed to bring bowl game." DeBerry said dur­play for pride and represent Being the NL's only 20-game ter. back the Commander~in-Chief ing a recent telephone inter­my family, friends, school and 
winner doesn't mean much ''I'm not too worried about it trophy. view from his home in Colorado my God. 'Maybe,' he told nul, when you're pitching alongside really," said Neagle, referring "It belongs here, and we plan Springs. "We didn't go last 'it's just a game, but you take Greg Maddux. Tom Glavine and to the 13-day layoff that will 
to get it back," Gizzi said. year, and it wasn't fun. So I pride and play it hard and John Srnoltz. occur between his last regular­The Falcons, 6-0 and ranked came up with three aspirations make it an important part of So Denny Neagle waits. And season start and his first post­10th this week in the New York for the team. The Falcons are your life.' I like to play aggres­
waits. And waits. season start. "The adrenaline Times computer rankings, had on a mission now. sive. Get my head in tlwre. Wn Neagle, 20-5 during the regu­rushes in and gets you throw­held onto the trophy for seven From a picturesque prairie have a lot of throwbacks on lar season and one of the lead­ing." years before losing it to Army site under the front range of this team who play hard, don't ing contenders for the C:y Maddux, a four-time Cy last season. The annual three­the Hocky Mountains, Air Force cheat and they call their team­Young Award, didn't pitch at all Young winner. will pitch way battle for best service­teams, in the words of Luann mate, brother." as the Atlanta Braves swept against Kevin Brown in the academy team, began in 1972. DeBerry, the coach's wife, "can Gizzi has been compared to three straight games from opener, followed by Glavine on Air Foree will play Army, 1-4. look forever and ever into Dick Butkus and Lee Hoy Houston in the division playoffs. Wednesday and Smoltz in 
When the NL championship Game 3 Friday when the best­
at home on Nov. tl. Army will Kansas." Jordan because of his fearless face Navy. 2-2, on Dec. 6. The serenity of the area can­pursuit of blockers. llis team­series begins Tuesday night of-7 series shifts to Miami. 
"The cadet wing takes pride not hide the fierceness of the mates like to tell the story of against the Florida Marlins, ''I'm sure he wants to be out and pleasure in it." Gizzi, who football program. In 14 seasons the 12 stitches on his nose. Neagle once again will find there as bad as we do," leads the team in tackles and as coach. DeBerry has graduat­During a preseason game, Gizzi himself fourth in line behind Maddux said of Neagle. "He's 
had 17 last week against the ed 17 All Americans. suffered a cut on the bridge of Maddux, Glavine and Smoltz -showing a lot of respect for his all Cy Young winners. teammates. lie's doing what's
Citadel in a 17-3 victory, said of "The kind of kid who comes his nose from a hit to the face the student body's affection for to the academy is hard working mask that still hasn't healed. "Everything we wanted has best for his team." the trophy. "And our fans enjoy by nature, smart and athletic," So, under doctor's orders, Gizzi happened just right," insisted Third baseman Chipper Jones it. Playing Navy is like playing said Gizzi, the 22-year-old star has been held out of contact Neagle, whose lirst start of the said Neagle being pushed back your brother, you beat him and and DeBerry's pick for post­drills for six weeks. lie stands postseason will come Saturday in the rotation is simply a "tes­you know you did it fair and season honors. "Seniors will 20 yards behind the line and night in Game 4. "!like the way tament to the other three you have nothing to los~l." become lieutenants upon grad­visualizes each play. we'rp set up for the NIJ:S." guys. 
While some football followers uation, and they have to lead "It's not a problem," said This isn't a new situation for "But before all is said and are projecting Air Force for a people. The football field is a Steve Fernandez, an outsidn Neagle. Last year, he didn't get done," Jones added, "you're possible 12-0 record and an hands-on working laboratory linebacker. "Gizz has a way of to pitch in the division series going to hear from Denny 
when the Braves swept Los Neagle, I can promise you
Alliance bowl bid, the players for that." healing for Saturday's game. prefer not to listen. Gizzi grew up in Brunswick, lie's like Superman. We keep Angeles, and he had to work an that." "You can't really think about Ohio. where his family gath­him out of hitting drills and inning of relief in Game 2 of the Certainly, starting pitching 
what they say," said Blane ered around the television set then cut him loose on Saturday. NLC:S in order to stay sharp for will determine if the Braves Morgan. the Falcons' quarter­and watched the Cleveland He's a caged lion who tears his Game 4 start against St. advance to their fifth World back. "or it will sneak up and Browns on Sunday afternoons. into people. After the game. we Louis. Series since 1991. The Marlins 
bite you." As a youngster, he would put take him to the hospital, and Neagle envisions a similar seem to match up as well as or 
Coach Fisher DeBerry has on pads, hop on his bicycle. they stitch him up again." schedule this week. lie will better than Atlanta in every pitch out of thn bullpen in the other category. 
The Observer accepts classifleds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame oHlce, 314 Laforruno and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. ar 309 Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day clas­
Classifieds sifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 3 cenrs per character per day. including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
4 USC GAs  WANTED N D G A'S  •• We were afraid in the first half.  
•  .........__N_o_T_Ic_E_s_ Ttl£ PRIMROSE PATH BED &  __.l  ....I _w._'A_N_T_E_o_-----~11L-_F_O_R_RE_N_T_---1 LARGE REAL ESTATE CO. NR. BULLARD, MCKINLEY TERRACE,  703-590-g37 4 lv msg NEED USC TIX  TO ALL HOME GAMES 271 1526 ALUM NEEDS GA TIX TO HOME  We didn't realize that we had NOTHING to be afraid of. NOW WE'RE FEARLESS. ••  
BRE!\1'..1'11-ST-LOCATED 15 MIN­ CAMPUS IS SEEKING RELIABLE  SWANSON PARK 3 BDRM  REGULAR & STUDENT GAs  GAMES AND LSU  •• We've always thought that there  
UTES NOFIIH OF CAMPUS HAS  PART-TIME RECEPTIONIST.  HOMES, 1 & 2 BDRM DUPLEXS  CALL JOHN AT 232-0431  CALL MIKE 800-991·0525  was only ONE obstacle-NOW WE  
OPENINGS FOFI I=OOTBALL  PHONE & COMPUTER EXPERI­ ALSO. 2726551  KNOW THERE ARE NONE.••  
WEEKENDS. LOVEL'i HISTORIC INN. FULL ELEGANT BREII-1'..­FASTS. 4 GUEST ROOMS. AJC, CABLE TV. 2 NIGHTS REQUIRED.  ENCE A MUST. $7.75/HOUR, 1·6 M·F; 9-2 SAT. SEND RESUMES TO P.O BOX 11397, SOUTH BEND, IN  ROOMS IN PRIVATE HOME FOR FOOTBALL WEEKENDS AND OTHER ND-SMC EVENTS.  Wanted: Individual wants tickets for LSU/Notre Dame Game. Will pay cash. Phone (318)752-1208 or (318)747-8820.  I Need 2 USC GA TIX -CALL BILL 4·4912 WANTED: 2 BC TIX. WILL TRADE  WANTED: FORMAL DATES JR. OR SR. WI 3 FRIENDS FOR MY ROOMIES.  
$80-$100. CALL 616-695-6321  46634.  VERY CLOSE TO CAMPUS-5  FOR WVA GA'S OR CASH. CALL  CALL 0849  
MIN. DRIVE OR 15-20 MIN. WALK.  2 Pitt GA tix: $100  JOHN AT  
000 THE COPY SHOP 000  ......Windsor Park ......  243-0658.  Call287-0611  (415) 668-1391 BY 10/18.  hi katie kroener! thanks for letting  
LaFortune Student Center  ...Conference Center• ..  me use "YOUR" computer  
Store Hours  Upscale restaurant ("The Vintage  HEY SUZY AND ELLEN SOLD  WE HAVE USC GA'S FOR SALE  
Mon.-Thur.: 7:30 a.m.-Midnight  Cafe") looking for experienced  THAT PRETTY PLACE, Bed and  THEIR USC GA'S ...  CALL US:  I'm unruly. I'm out of control.  
Fti:. 7:30 a.m.-7:00p.m.  evening waitstaff for ala carte din·  Breakfast Inn has space available  SO STOP CALLING THEM!!!  SUZY 634-4311  
..  Sat.: Noon-6:00p.m. Sun.: Noon-Midnight  .  ing. Must be 21 y.o. Apply in per­son; M-F  for football/parent wknds. 5 Rooms with private baths, $70-$90,  Married Stud Tix forsale 4-461 0  OR ELLEN 634-4308  I need to sell 4 tix to USC and 4 tix to BC. $20 each or best offer. Call  
(closed home football Sat.'s)  4020 Edison Lakes Parkway  Middlebury, 30 miles from campus.  4-2728  
Phone 631-COPY  Mishawaka  Toll Road, Exit #107,  Need 4 BC TIX 716-425-9845  
1-800-418-9487.  SALE: 2 Student Tix for USC  000 THE COPY SHOP 000  
KEENAN HALL CHARITY GOLF SCRAMBLE Saturday, October 11 10 AM Shotgun, 18 holes 4 players/team. $1 0/player PRIZES: 1st. 2nd, 3rd, long drive close to pin  FREE TRIPS & CASH! SPRING BREAKi Outgoing individuals-sell 15 & go FREE. Cancun. South Padre, Mazatlan, Jamaica. South Beach, FL. Guaranteed Best Prices. 1-800-SURFS·UP.  ENTIRE FURNISHED HOME FOOTBALL WEEKENDS 2773097 NICE HOME NOW OR NEXT SEMESTER 2773097  Call277-1530. Need BC GA's. Grandparents are coming in and will pay good money! Call Frank, 4-2340.  Want two home game football tick­ets for 11/2 or 10/25. Call Alan, col­lect, (813)899-1208 after 7 PM EST. Have 4 WV GAs. Want to trade for BC. Ca114-3918.  LaFortune Student Center ~ High-Speed Copies ~ Canon Color Laser Copies ~ Digital Color Printing ..J Binding & Laminating .J Public Fax Service 631-FAX1 Phone 631-COPY  
PIZZA AFTERWARDS! To sign up call Chris @ x3271  www.studentexpress.com  FURNISHED HOMES GOOD AREA NORTH OF NO FOR NEXT  I need tix for NO/USC game. I am willing to trade NO/West Vir. tix or  4 Navy GAs 4 sale  •• We don't need to find anything  
ILOST & FO~ND I  ..Spring Break..."Take 2".. Hiring Reps! Sell15 .. Take 2 Free.  SCHOOL YEAR 2773097 FOR SALE  NO/Navy tix or pay cash ... Call Bob (818)793·0412 ###############  Great Price Call Michele @ x0831 Need USC & BC tickets  else to do. We're VERY good at what we do now -the game proved that. It also proved that you're not all that.··  
would appreciate anyone who finds keys to room 308 to call x1862 If you find the little grit who stole  Hot destinations! Free Parties, Eats, Drinks. SunSplash 1-800·426· 771 O/www.sunsplashtours.com  1 G.A. for USC game. $70 or best offer. Peter @ 4·1375  For Sale: 2 USC student tix (not GAs!)  Call Greg 2288 FOR SALE: 2 GA Pitt. tics.  bye bye honey  
them. you can also call x1862  call Jenny @ 687-8435  Call Kristin@ (201)963-8863  ew! bad form  
NEW STEREO EQUIP many  ###############  
black-grey sweatshirt wl keys taken at Stepan Fields -turn in to notre  Restaurant Servers wanted at Old Chicago Steakhouse.  names. 20-70% off retail, warranty. Nick 4·2033  ################ 2 BC student tickets for sale  NEED 1 USC GA Call Christina 634-1425  •• Recap of the game: PW is the GREATEST, most SPIRITED, most FANTASTICALLY WONDERFUL  
dame security  Apply after 5:00pm at 222 S. Michigan St. 234-5200  -89Buick Lasable,4Dr, 96K, V.Good Cond. One Owner, $40DO,Call: 232­ call Jenny @ 687-8435 ################  I need to sell 4 tix to USC and 4 tix  dorm on campus!! ••  
Under New Management.  3707  to BC. $20 each or best offer. Call  
FOUND: Prescription glasses in LensCrafters black case. Found in grey CSC van. Turned into  Restaurant Hostess wanted at Old Chicago Steakhouse. Apply after 5:00pm at  -91 Ford Tours,Hch Bck, 4Dr, 72K One Owner. Clean, Mind Cond. $4899, Call: 288-2808 -86Honda Prelude, 2Dr, V. Clean.  NOTRE DAME FOOTBALL TICKETS BUY · SELL -TRADE 232-0058  4-2728 PERSONAL  •• Weasel Football WILL go all the way. Now we know that NOTHING can stop us.··  
•  Security's lost & found. Call Kristen for more info. 1-8404 blue bookbag lost in bookstore on 10/1. if found call steve at x· 2070. REWARD OFFERED!!  222 S. Michigan St. 234-5200 Under New Management. Marketing Intern needed for Heartland and Old Chicago Steakhouse. Call for interview at 234·5200. More information posted at Career/Placement Center.  Gd.Cond. $2100orB/0,277-3254 -90Honda Civic,5spd, V.Ciean, like new, One Owner, Red. No Rust, Low Milge, 2773254. TICKETS I NEED GA TIXS ALL NO HOME GAMES.272-6551  CONFIDENTIAL TICKET-MART, INC. BUY/SELL NO SEASON AND INDI­VIDUAL GAME TICKETS. 674-7645. ND TICKETS WANTED DAYTIME#: 232-2378 EVENING#: 288-2726  PREGNANT? If you are pregnant and condisering your options, we are a loving couple loooking to adopt. Please call 1-800-866-8848 after 6 PM (expenses paid). WE ARE SO COOL!  •• WE ARE THE WEASELS AND THIS IS OUR YEAR!!! •• You know I hear that Newport News place is pretty cool ... where oh where is my wonderful assistant tonight?  
LOST: Purple fleece·in bebart on Thurs.. Oct 2 between 2-3:15. Please send him hOme. I miss him. Reward. 243-2643.  babysitter tor two nice kids aged 8 and 6. occasional evenings or afternoonsL. 5.mms. walk from Hesburgh. ·~739  NEED 4 STUD TIX -GA'D FOR NAVY CALL TODD 243 5609  FOR SALE N.D. G.A.'S 271-9412.  t•:  HOPE YOUR HAVING A GREAT DAY AND THANKS FOR BEING COOL LOVE Y A TONS LATER POOKY NIP  oh yeah... watching caroline... with bryan ... who's says martin's has no pesto?  

-. 


Tuesday, October 7, 1997 The Observer· SPORTS page 15 
• NHL 

Japan sees its first NHL action 

By PHIL BROWN 
Associated Press Writer 
TOKYO 
Move over, American basket­ball, football and baseball. NIIL hockey has made a splash in Japan, and not because the ice was weak. 
Capacity crowds of 10,500 turned out Saturday and Sunday to watch, ooh and aah at the first NIIL regular season games held outside North America. 
From the cheering, it was hard to tell how many were Vancouver fans and how many favored Anaheim. 
No matter. Vancouver won 3­2 Saturday. On Sunday, when Ducks logos seemed to slightly outnumber Canucks insignias on the hundreds of hockey jer­seys in the crowd, a few ban­ners -in Japanese and English -exhorted: "Ducks must win." 
They did. also 3-2. 
Tetsuya Ono, a Japanese col­lege student sitting behind one of the goals, said that when the puck came flying, "I could really feel the power and speed." 
The minuses included bumpy ice and a hole that needed to be fixed, and the absence of the Ducks' unsigned Paul Kariya, a Canadian of Japanese ancestry who scored 44 goals last season. Several fans wore Ducks' shirts or raised signs with his name. 
Female office worker Akiko Endo said, "It's a lot of fun, although for me it would have been even more fun if I could see Paul Kariya here." 
Outside, sunny weather in the 70s overwhelmed the refrigera­tion system. In the last 2 1/2 minutes of Sunday's game, there was a 10-minutc delay for repairs where a pipe beneath the surface broke and a piece of ice popped up. 
Tomas Sandstrom, who scored one goal and passed to 
J.J. Daigneault for the Ducks' winner with 6:22 left in Sunday's game, said because of the ice conditions, "you some­times make the simple plays. There's not going to be that much stick handling. You try to play safe." 
Nevertheless, the "oohs" of the fans were echoed in the sports newspaper Hochi. 
"The NHL brought more excitement here than past games by the NFL, NBA and major league baseball," it said Sunday. 
League senior vice president Brian Burke said there were no definite plans for future NHL games in Japan, but "I hope we can do it again, whether it is in Japan or some other country." 
He said local Japanese spon­sors had covered the trip's expenses. 
Arthur Pincus, the league's vice president for public rela­tions, said, "From the experi­ence we had, we'd love to find a way to make something like this a part of our regular program. 
"We consider the trip a big, big success," he added. 
"We view ourselves as the most international of U.S. team sports. I think our game trans­lates well. When people see it, they get excited," Pincus said. 
He described Japanese fans as knowledgeable, citing their spe­cial cheers for Selanne "in recognition of the great game he played." 
Selanne scored one goal and two assists Sunday. 
There also were special cheers for Vancouver's Mark Messier and Pavel Bure, who scored key goals in the Canucks' victory on Saturday. 
Bure also scored a goal that tied Sunday's game 1-1 in the first period. He broke away down the r:ght wing, faked past defender Bobby Dollas and beat goalie Mikhail Shtalenkov from right in front. 
lie and other NIIL players. more than 100 of them, will be back in Japan in February when, for the first time, the league will take a break in its schedule to let its players com­pete in the Olympics. 
"I think it was a great experi­ence for the people over here to see NHL hockey, certainly to give everybody an opportunity to know what it's like when the Olympics come. That, I think, was most important," said Messier. 
And for those who played in Tokyo, "it was a special time to be part of NIIL history." 
Asked about who might play in the Olympics in the northern Japanese city of Nagano, Vancouver coach Tom Renney joked: "I hope nobody from our team." 
While the Olympic debut of the NHL pros is expected to give the sport a boost, some coaches worry about players becoming tired or injured in mid-season. 
But Renney mentioned Messier, Bure, goalie Kirk McLean and Trevor Linden as likely candidates, along with the Ducks' Kariya and Selanne. 
"When I was growing up, it was a dream to play in the Olympics," said Bure. 

C a II 1-800-878-3872 
www.att.com/college/np.html 
-

AT&T 
It's all within your reach. 
t•' lfJ11/ Al&l 
Wanted: Reporters, pho-­tographers and editors. Join The Observer staff. 
YOU DEMAND POWER,SPEED, AND MOBILITY. 

5300 
cash back* 


$200 
Power Macintosh" 6500/275 .,,,,,,."''·"'........... 32/4GB/t2XCD{Multip\e Scan 15AV IIf ' ' 
cash back*

L2/Zip Orive/EthemetMdeo ln/NTSC Ouift<tid Now $2.675 (or $s<¥1nontfil.. BEFORE REBATE i;;JPowerBook" 14oocs/133 t6/1GB/8XCD/L2/u.J" OSTN display Now $:z.o8s (or $39/month) .. BEFORE REBATE 
-


$100 

cash back* 
Save another 


Sso 
Now $1,550 (or $29/month)-BEFORE REBATE 
cash back* 

Color StyleWriter' 4100 Now $220-BEFORE REBATE 
WANT SOME CASH TO GO WITH THAT? 
Now is the right time to get an Apple Power Macintosh or PowerBook. Because in addition to getting the computer that lets you do more than you can imagine, you can save big time. For a limited time, students are eligible for special cash rebates. 
*This is a limited time rebate coupon offer. See your Apple campus reseller today for complete details. 
Notre Dame Computer Store Computer/Math Building Room 112 • Mon.-Fri. 8:oo-s:oo http://www.nd.edu/-ndstore/ Prices shown include ClarisWorks and a Bonus Bundle. PowerBook 14oocs/133 includes a carrying case. While supplies last! 
Power Macintosh" 5400/18o t6/t.2GB/8XCO/Built-in disp\ay/Kbd 
**Offer expires October 10, 1997. No payment of interest will be required for 90 days. Interest attruing during the 90-day period will ~ added to the principal and will bear interest, which will be included in the repayment schedule. For example, the m'?nth of May s. 1997, ha~ an mt~rest ~e OJ 12.40% with an Annual Percentage Rate (APR) of 13.82%. A monthly paymen~ of $49·75 for the Power Mac1nt_o~h 6_5oo/275 system !San ~st1mate se on a total loan amount of $2,8]2.34. which includes a sample purchase pnce of $2,675 and a 6% loan ongmat1on fee. Interest IS vanable based on the Prime Rate as reported on the sth business day of the month in The Wall Street Journal plus a spread of 3.9%. ~e Apple Computer Loan has an a-year loan tenn with no prepayment penalty and is subject to credit approval. Monthly payments may vary dependmg on actual co'!lputer system prices total loan amounts state and local sales taxes and a change in the monthly variable mterest rate. Ch997 Apple Computer, Inc. All nghts reserved. Apple' the Apple logo ~c. Macintosh PowerBook, Power Macintosh and StyleWriter are registered trademarKs of Apple Computer, l!lc. One~nner and ciuick.Take are trademarXs of AppJe' Computer, Inc. Apple mail-~n. re~ate offer valid from July 12, 1997 thr~ugh Octob~r 10, 1997, while supphe;> •ast and subject to availability. Void where prohibited by law. See part1c1patmg reseller for further rules and details. All Macmtosh computers are des1gned to be accessible to individuals with disability. To team more (U.S. only), call 8oo-6oo-7808 or TIY 8oo·755-o6o1. 

page 16 The Observer· SPORTS Tuesday, October 7, 1997 
•NBA 
Bird sees his first action as head coach of Indiana 
By FRED GOODALL 
Associated Press Writer 
LAKE BUENA VISTA, Fla. 
Larry Bird stood at midcourt, his arms crossed one moment and hands on his hips the next. He walked back and forth, watching intently, before reaching into his pocket for a copy of the practice schedule. 
'It's hard to imagine one of the NBA's all-time greats look­ing uncomfortable on a basket­ball floor. But there he was on the opening day of training camp, feeling his way through his first workout as coach of the Indiana Pacers. 
Assistants Dick Harter and Rick Carlisle did much of the talking, leading the team through the routine. When Bird spoke, the players acknowledged with a nod or an occasional smile, and kept working. 
Bird, conceding that it felt a little unusual to be a coach, liked what he saw. 
"Training camp's tough," he said. "If guys are having fun here, they should have a good time during the season because we expect to win." 
The Pacers are counting on it after luring the former Boston Celtics star out of retirement in hopes he can change the direction of a team that's been in decline since nearly reaching the NBA Finals three years ago. 

Indiana failed to make the playoffs for the lirst time since 1989 in its last season under Larry Brown. However, Bird didn't inherit a roster devoid of talent. 
His challenge is not to rebuild the Pacers, but rather get more out of a roster that includes a strong nucleus of Reggie Miller, Hik Smits, Derrick McKey, Dale Davis, Antonio Davis, Mark Jackson and offseason acquisition Chris Mullin. 
"In just the short period I've been around him, I think he's approaching it the way he was as a player -work extra, details, strive for perfection," Mullin said. 
The forward, beginning his 13th NBA season -the first 12 were with the Golden State Warriors -played against Bird for years, and with him on the original Dream Team in 1992. 
"He always was a guy you'd look at and take things from," Mullin said. "Now he just hap­pens to be opening his whole book to you. lie wasn't show­ing us everything when he was playing. lle was keeping it to himself." 
Bird, 40, led Boston to three NBA championships, was a 12­time All-Star and voted the league's most valuable player three straight seasons during a 13-year playing career. 
He spent much of the past live years on golf courses and relaxing at his Naples, Fla. home. However, basketball never was at the back of his mind. The competitive juices flowed, and an opportunity to return to his home state to coach was too good to turn down. 
Standing around in practice is new to him, yet in some ways it's making this one of his most enjoyable training camps. 
"It's fun because I like to be around basketball, and I love the game," Bird said. "But now that I don't have to run up and down the court, it makes it a lot easier." 
• CoLLEGE FooTBALL 




Michigan teams lead Big I 0 
The Associated Press 
Michigan's two Big Ten foot­ball teams are undefeated, Illinois' are just in a sad-state. 
No. 6 Michigan beat Indiana 
37.Q and Michigan State got by Minnesota 31-10 Saturday while No. 2 Penn State hum­bled Illinois 41-6, Wisconsin edged Northwestern 26-25 and No. 7 Ohio State clipped Iowa 23-7. 
Northwestern (2-4, 0-2), winners of at least a share of the Big Ten title the past two years, suffered its third straight loss and the defeat Saturday night at Evanston, Ill., was one of toughest in the last three years. 
Matt Davenport kicked a 
career·!ong 48-yarder with 6 seconds to go to improve Wisconsin to 5-1 overall and 2-0 in the Big Ten. 
"A kieker usually gets once chance to do this in his life and I've gotten to do it two weeks in a row," said Davenport, who had kicked a 43-yarder, also with six sec­ond remaining, to beat Indiana 27-26last week. 
In Champaign, Ill., the lllini (0-5, 0-2) suffered their 11th consecutive defeat, matching their second-longest losing streak since they started play­ing football in 1890. Illinois, which last won on Oct. 5. 1996, has been outscored 370­154 during its streak. The Illini also have lost eight straight conference games. 

"When people make a mis­take against us, we're not able to capitalize," said Illinois coach Ron Turner. 
Mike McQueary passed for three touchdowns and Curtis En is had his first 1 OO·yard rushing game this year as Penn State (4-0, 1-0) gained 548 yards and averaged 7.8 yards per play. 
Brian Griese passed for 204 yards and one touchdown, but it was the Michigan defense 
that  dominated  at  
Bloomington, Ind.  
"We just go  out to  play  

aggressive football," said cor­nerback Charles Woodson. whose interception set up one Michigan touchdown. 
Txred. o£ £i~ti:n.g over "W'he:re to go!' 1\llovie of The Week: Q"u;b» has a. solu.tio:n... 
My Best Frie:nd's Wedding 
~sd.a:y Nigh~: 

~~@ Cush:b:J& Chapel
A.col.'I.S'tic Ca.:fe 

9 prn.-l.2...,..... ~ Thursday: 10:30 p:rn <i The Huddle ~~ Friday & Saturday: 
'M.n.a-io0 c:::::n..-t. TOIIla~'IIC!='tW. ~ ~ <9 'The H.....ddlo ~? 8:(J()' 10:.sopn 

$2.00 
8-10 ...... 

Best Date Movie of the Year! 
(Si_..... ••P 'i~"& yGD&• do1l'"':l'n)
Happy Birthday Brittanyntu 


----------~----~--------~--~---~-~-­

Tuesday, October 7, 1997 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 17 

Life's easier with 10¢ a minute, AT&T Call Organizer" and Student Advantage®. It's all FREE just for being with AT&T. 
• 10¢ A MINUTE-AT&T Simple Rates®-on long distance calls from home to anywhere in the 
U.S. from 7pm-7am weekdays and all weekend long; 25¢ a minute all other times. ... 
• 
FREE AT&T CALL ORGANIZER: no more hassles-use your personalized code before you dial, and we'll tally your phone bill by roommate (up to 12 people per bill). 

• 
FREE STUDENT ADVANTAGE: get special offers and up to 50% off every day at thousands of your favorite neighborhood places and national sponsors-like Kinko's~ Tower Records® and Amtrak~ 


AT&T S1mple Rates IS available to AT&T restdent1allong distance subscnbers. 1s subject to b1ll1ng availability and can't be comb1ned with any other domestic sav1ngs opt1ons. Th1s plan also offers rates for other types of calls on your mam-b1lled account. call for details. Enroll by 11/30/97. Plan is avatlable until 12131197. If AT&T S1mple Rates billing 1sn't avatlable tn your area. you'll be enrolled 1n the AT&T One Rate Plan 
Live off campus? Get it all FREE with one easy call. 
C a II 1-800-878-3872 
o r v i s i t w w w . a t t . c .o m I c o I I e ~ e I n p . h t m I 
It 's all WI'th'1n your reach. 
AT&T 
© 1997 AT&T 


page 18 The Observer· SPORTS Tuesday, October 7, 1997 
• MAJOR lEAGUE BASEBALL 
• BOXING 
Orioles hope newfound 


Lewis ropes cheap shot artist 
relief carries into ALCS By JOHN CURRAN and boxing public. Bean, even though Moorer has 
Associared Press Wrirer At 32-1, he may now. successfully defended against 
Notre Dame Faculty and Staff 



Thursday, October 9, 1997 
Stepan Center-7to 7:40a.m.  Food Services Support Facility Breakroom-10:45 to 11 a.m.  
Stepan Center-12:10 to 12:50 p.m.  Food Services Support Facility Breakroom-9 to 9:15p.m.  
Stepan Center-2 to 2:40p.m.  
Stepan Center-5:10 to 5:50p.m.  

Associated Press 
BALTIMORE 
The Baltimore relievers were the last Orioles spraying Champagne and beer and slosh­ing water in the home clubhouse at Camden Yards on Sunday, and that was apropos. Once more the bullpen finished the action. the likes of Armando Benitez, Alan Mills and Arthur Rhodes celebrating with each other after beating Seattle in the division series. 
They have been finishing all year, with exceptional efficiency. Atlanta's starting rotation is generally considered the strongest unit in baseball. but the Baltimore bullpen could be a strong runner-up. "That's a heck of a team over there," 
'"i SPORTS BRlEFS 
.::=~.\:: .,. }"( ' :%:·:···=··· ;.: ... :·:·: :.::.J\': 
" Women's InstructionaJ Boxing-RecSports will be sponsoring a one-day instruc,. tional workshop on Saturday, Oct. 11, from 10 a.m. to 11:30 
a.m. in the ~.9yce Center box" ing room. Deadline to register is Wednesday, Oct. 8. For more information call 1-6100 or Amy at 4-4633. 
Saint Mary's Athletics ­There will be an information­al track meeting on Thursday, Oct. 9, at 8 p.m. in the Angela Athletic facility. Please call the Saint Mary's Athletic department if interested but cannot attend. 
Notre Dame Martial Arts 
Seattle Manager Lou Piniella said. "You get into their bullpen, and they're pretty tough." 
This is what the Orioles' bullpen accomplished in the division series: only 1 run allowed on 5 hits, 2 walks and 15 strikeouts in nine and two­thirds innings. 
The bullpen was a disaster area little more than a year ago. Benitez. the massive, hard­throwing right-hander who sometimes hits 100 miles an hour on the radar gun, was on the disabled list with a bad elbow. Randy Myers, the closer, would repeatedly pitch into trouble. Rhodes was hurt. 
But in late August 1996, the Orioles acquired Mathews from Florida for the backup catcher Greg Zaun. 
Institute ¢3;'fae 
jujitsu practice for beginners will take .place from .4 .to·61 
p.m. 
on Thursdays and 6 to 8 

p.m. 
on Sundaysin Roo}Jl 218 Rockne MemoriaL All are,,,


welcome.·'·'' ···· · ' . · ·.. ,:.. w 
Field Hockey'::... Practice will be on M<iudays a.nd Wednesdays from 9 to 10 
p.m. in Loftus. Call Mawe.en at 4-4281 or Stephani¢ at 4" 2741 with any questions. 
Synchronized ~wimming ­Practices are;-h~ld'''' on Mondays and Wednesdays from 8 to 10 p.m. and Sundays from 10 a.m;. to 1 p.m. 

ATLANTIC CITY 
Lennox Lewis says it's just as well that Riddick Bowe is retired because Bowe couldn't handle him anyway. 
Minutes after he retained his WBC heavyweight title with a surprisingly easy first-round victory over Andrew Golota, someone asked Lewis if he wanted Bowe. After all, Golota had overpowered the former heavyweight champ in both fights before being disqualified for low blows. 
Lewis thought about it. Then he said: ''I've got too much meannoss built up for Riddick Bowe. It doesn't make sense for him to come back (for a Lewis fight)." 
If their performances against the street-fighting Pole are any indication, Lewis is far more dangerous in the ring. 
On Saturday, Lewis knocked Golota down twice before stop­ping him 1:35 into the first round of their scheduled 12­rounder before 13,889 people at Convention Hall. 
He swarmed over the jittery Golota and knocked him down with 55 seconds elapsed after connecting on four rights to the head. After referee Joe Cortez gave the go-ahead to resume fighting, Lewis attacked again and landed three hard rights that dropped Golota to the seat of his pants. 
Lewis, the 32-year-old WBC heavyweight champion from Britain, had complained that he didn't get the respect he deserved from the U.S. media 
"Basically, I wanted to go out and make my statement to the world and prove I'm the best heavyweight champion on the planet," Lewis said. 
He also wants to unify the championship by winning the WBA and IBF titles. It looks as if he will get the chance. 
Promoter Dino Duva said he believes Lewis will fight the winner of a Nov. 8 match at Las Vegas between WBA champion Evander Holyfield and IBF champion Michael Moorer. 
Lewis and Moorer are tied to Duva's Main Events while llolyfield has a deal with pro­mQter Don King, but Duva doesn't think that will be a stumbling bloek. 
However, there is an obsta­cle. The IBF champion is due to make a mandatory defense against No. ]-ranked Vaughn 

The University of Notre Dame Department of Music presents 
The Notre Dame String Trio & guests
.~'-~. \ 
) 
playing Johannes Brahms'\ Quintet in G Major, Op.JJJ and Clarinet Quintet in B Minm; Op. 115 
7:30pm, 

Thesday, October 7, 1997 18th Century Gallery, Snite Museum of Art 
$2 Tickets available at the LaFortune Box Office. 631-8128. -..__.,/ Call 631-620 I for more information . 
Bean, and the WBA champion owes a mandatory defense against Orlin Norris. 
But Duva thinks the two gov­erning bodies will allow a uni­fication match. 
Golota, who once bit an opponent and butted another, was disqualified in his two previous fights, both against Bowe, for repeated low blows. 
Against Lewis, Golota threw 10 punches and landed only two. 
"I don't know what hap­pened," Golota said. "I just got caught. What could I do? It was an accident." 
The accident put him in the hospital. Golota, who collapsed in his dressing room after­ward, was taken to Atlantic City Medical Center, where he passed a CAT scan, spent the night for observation and was released. 

Free Food and Refreshments and Prize Drawings 
I
Tuesday, October 7, 1997 The Observer • SPORTS page 19 
j 
-


• NFL 




Broncos top Pats 
By DAVE GOLDBERG 
AP Football Writer 
DENVER 
Thanks to Terrell Davis and John Mobley, the Denver Broncos passed their first big test Monday night. 
Now they have to wait three months to find out if it means anything. 
Davis ran for 171 yards in 32 carries and Mobley returned an interception for a score and forced a key fumble as the Broncos scored 17 points in the third quarter and beat New England 34-13 in the ballyhooed battle of the NFL's last unbeaten teams. 
Hod Smith added five catch­es for 130 yards as the Broncos (6-0) beat the Patriot<; for thelOth straight time dat­ing back to 1979. 
But based on last season, it may not mean much. 
Denver started 12-1, incl ud­ing a 34-8 win over the Patriots, clinched home lleld withfive games left in the reg­ular season, then lost its !irst playoff game to Jacksonville, and New England went on to the Super Bowl. 
This one was a game for a half. The Broncos jumped to a 14-0 lead on a 1-yard wn by Davis and a 13-yard intercep­tion return by Mobley. 
But the Patriots ( 4-1) cut it to 
14-13 at halftime thanks to two interceptions by Willie Clay that set up a 44-yard TD pass from Drew Bledsoe to Keith Byars and one of AdamVinatieri's two field goals. 
The second half was no con­test. 
Denver took the kickoff 80 yards in 10 plays for a score on a 1-yard sneak by John Elway; Scott Bentley added a short field goal; then Davis scored on his second 1-yard TD run. 
The defense, meanwhile, held New England to three plays and out on its first two series of the half and the Patriots self destructed -they had six penalties for 7 4 yards in the third quarter alone. 
The Patriots finished with 117 yards in penalties, 74 of them on cornerback Jimmy Ilitchcock. 
New England moved easily to the Denver 25 off the open­ing kickoff. But Terry Glenn was stripped by Mobley, and Elway directed the Broncos on a 75-yard,11-play drive capped by Davis' first TD. 
Mobley stepped in front of Bledsoe's pass at the 13, picked it off, and trotted into the end zone. But the New England defense reciprocated. 
On the first play of the sec­ond quarter, Clay got his first interception, returning it 27 yards to the Denver 44. 


Tonight 8:00P.M. Walsh Hall Chapel 
ESDAY, OcT. 7 7:30PM 
c.s.c 
• MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBAll 
Wright, Tribe dispose of Yanks 
enough with the proceedings to visit Pettitte on the mound. Stottlemyre had barely sat down before Pettitte, who has a terrific move to first and paced the American League with 14 pickoffs, threw to first. 
But after pumping a strike past Rar:.1irez, Pettitte was so focused on Ramirez that he lost focus on Vizquel. As Pettitte shook off a signal, Vizquel streaked for second and stole it without a throw. Pettitte jumped off the rubber and looked toward third. Grissom had not budged. It was a shocking play for Pettitte to digest. especially since those risks are rarely seen beyond Little League dia­monds. 
In addition to embarrassing Pettitte, did Vizquel destroy his pysche? Presumably, because Pettitte grooved an 0­2 fastball to Ramirez on the next pitch, and he drilled it over the head of center fielder Bernie Williams and over the fence on one bounce for a ground-rule double that gave the Indians a 2-0 lead. The hit snapped Ramirez's 0-for-13 drought and gave 45,203 hyper fans something to cheer about. 
When Matt Williams fol­lowed by rifling a 1-2 pitch into left to make it 3-0, the Indians were rolling, the fans were howling, and the Yankees were squirming. 
Sandy Aiomar doubled to start the fourth, chugged to third on the second sacrifice bunt of Jim Thome's career and scored a controversial run on Tony Fernandez's sacrifice 11y to right field. O'Neill made a solid throw to Girardi and, although Alomar beat the ball, television replays appeared to indicate that he never touched the plate. Girardi tagged Alomar when he stood up, but Umpire Dave Phillips said Alomar had touched home, and the Yanks were in a 4-0 hole. 
Before the Yankees eventu­ally chased Wright in the sixth, the right-hander had stymied them. 
Raines singled and stole sec­imd to start the first inning, but Jeter struck out and failed to advance him. With men on first and third and two outs. Tino Martinez popped weakly to second. 
The 
Observer is 
looking for 
Production, 
Sports, 
News and 
Graphics 
Staff 

Members 

By JACK CURRY 
Associated Press Writer 
Cleveland 
The fairy tale did not finish with the Yankees wearing glass slippers this October. The storybook did not end with them as heroes again this season. The thrilling ride of 1997 will not climax with a parade up Broadway amid ticker tape this autumn. 
The defending World Series champions lost the chance to continue defending the title by losing to the Cleveland Indians, 4-3, tonight in Game 5 of the American League divi­sion series. Wright and Cleveland's unheralded bullpen halted some valiant comeback attempts, the Yankees were' left with the sobering realization that their pursuit of another dream sea­son had expired. 
It was a forgettable night that they will not be able to forget for some time because they could have prevented a decisive skirmish from even being played. They did not on Sunday and then they forfeited their entire season tonight. 
There will be new champi­ons in tiHl major leagues this season because the Yankees could not vanquish the Indians after snatching a 2-1 lead in the series on Saturday. Pettitte had been the most depend­able Yankee starter this year, but he dumped them in a 4-0 ditch after he apparently lost concentration in a three-run third and they did not totally rebound against an unfazed 21-year-old and three reliev­ers. Their last gasp of 1997 occurred in the eighth as Jorge Posada grounded back to closer Jose Mesa, stranding runners on first and third. 
"There's pressure, there's no question about it," said Manager Joe Torre before the game. "This is a game where we know we're going to Baltimore or the Bronx after this game. Everybody is mak­ing plans for Baltimore." 
Not anymore. The Indians will journey to Baltimore for the American League Championship. The Yankees 11ew back to the Bronx. They were four outs away from securing an invitation to the 
A.L.C.S. before Mariano Rivera faltered Sunday night and then Wright topped Pettitte, who pitched with lower back spasms, for the second time in four days. Now the Yankees, who won 98 games this sea­son, are 12 aching months away from another opportuni­ty so grand. 
Wright juggled the 4-0 lead that the Indians had given him after four innings as the Yankees scored two runs in the llfth. Bernie Williams sin­gled in Tim Raines, and Paul O'Neill scooted home after right fielder Manny Ramirez overran the ball for an error. 
Mike Stanley, who replaced Cecil Fielder as the designated hitter and had hits in his llrst three at-bats, doubled to cen­ter to begin the sixth. One out later, pinch-hitter Wade Boggs chopped a single over second to score Stanley and reduce the gap to 4-3. 
That ended Wright's evening after 115 pitches. The 21­year-old rookie yielded two earned runs in five and two­thirds innings. 
Mike Jackson replaced Wright and struck out a feisty Posada, another pinch-hitter, with a 2-2 pitch, then got Raines to ground out to sec­ond. Since Torre had pinch-hit for catcher Joe Girardi and second baseman Rey Sanchez, the Yankees had Posada catch­ing, Boggs at third and Charlie Hayes at second for only the second time in his career. 
Pettitte retired seven of the first eight hitters before Marquis Grissom lined a one­out single to left in the third and Bip Roberts followed by blooping an 0-2 pitch into cen­ter for a single. Omar Vizquel engaged in a cat-and-mouse game with Pettitte as play was halted three times during his at-bat because Vizquel either called time out or Pettitte stepped off the rubber. Finally, Vizquel cued a shot to first that Tino Martinez threw to second for a force on Roberts. 
But Derek Jeter could not fire back to first for a possible double play because Pettitte never covered the base. 
Vizquel was not done annoy­ing Pettitte. He broke for sec­ond on the first pitch to Ramirez and would have easily stolen the base if Hamirez did not foul the ball. Mel Stottlemyre, the Yankee pitch­ing coach, was displeased 
•APARTMENT 
AVAILABILITY IS ON A FIRST COME FIRST SERVE BASIS. 

•APPLICATIONS 
CANNOT BE MAILED 


• APPLICATIONS AVAILABLE AT THE TURTLE CREEK LEASING OFFICE ONLY. 
• ALSO, CHECK US OUT AT WWW.RENTNET.COM. 
See you soon!!! 
I page 20 The Observer· WOMEN'S INTERHALL Tuesday, October 7, 1997 
I 
I 



I Yanez's four touchdowns lift Lyons over Badin 
ByMATTYUNG air and was· able to snag the plays later, Lyons forced Badin by the Lyons defense. After Sports Writer pass, giving Lyons a first down. into another punting situation. receiving the punt, Lyons Two plays later, Tschanz Badin didn't anticipate would march down the field 
Lyons 26, Badin 0 lofted the ball in the air again. Lyons' return scheme, which for the final time of the game. Yanez ran under it, pulled it cost them dearly. On the punt, Tschanz looked near perfect 
Lyons, the defending in, and zipped past Badin's the returner ran hard to her as she conl1dently stood behind women's interhall football defense for a touchdown. left, and out of nowhere came her mighty offensive line and champion. continued its reign Following the score, Badin Yanez to receive the reverse completed 5 of 6 passes before when the team took the field received the ball but was hand-off. 11nishing the drive in the most against Badin on Sunday. forced to punt after quarter­With the Badin defense run­fitting manner -a touchdown 
Lyons had the first posses­back Prissy Clements threw an ning in the opposite direction pass to Yanez to end the game sion and moved the ball steadi­incomplete pass on third Clown. of the ball, the speedy Yanez in a 26-0 Lyons victory. ly down the field for a first Badin had its only defensive turned it into high gear and Yanez exhibited her tremen­down. courtesy of running stop of the game on Lyons' raced to the end zone for her dous speed and agility in her back Katie Yanez's dash to the next possession. Badin defen­second touchdown of the four touchdowns. outside. sive backs swarmed Lyons game. However, the Lyons offensive 
Badin's defense then applied receivers and forced two After the punt return for a line's contribution can not be some pressure and made two incomplete passes, one coming touchdown, Lyons players overlooked. The Hne gave stops, bringing up a critical on fourth down which led to a struggled to refrain from Tschanz the time she needed third down. On third down. change of possession. breaking into a celebration to find her open receivers and Lyons' quarterback Kathy Badin running back dance. Badin had another move the ball. Tschanz dropped into the Stephanie So started the drive opportunity but was again Although Badin was unable pocket and found her big tight with a strong run for a first forced to punt after three to stop the Lyons offense, they end Kim Rosenkoetter. down, which would be the plays. At the half. Lyons led too exhibited moments of bril­Rosenkoetter leaped into the team's only first down. Three 12-0. liance. Fran Maloney and the 
The second half presented crew of Badin linebackers used 
the same troubles for Badin. their lateral speed and antici­
Clements fired a rocket to pation to turn would be 20­

Stephanie So for a gain of 11ve yai'd runs into minimal three­along with two touchdowns. yards before Clements carried yard gains. Lyons' offense ran Badin ran 14 non-punt plays, the ball for three more yards. 27 plays, and Tschanz com­and Clements completed 4 of 9 On the third play, after Badin pleted 9 of 18 passes to go passes with one interception. 
looked like they were warming up, Clements threw an inter­ception abruptly halting the drive. 
Lyons whipped out some­thing new from the play book to confuse Badin defenders. Lyons sent wide out Yanez into motion but snapped the ball directly to Yanez as she passed behind the center. Yanez fol­lowed three excellent blocks and pranced into the end zone for her third touchdown. 
On the two-point conversion, Tschanz delivered a perfect pass to wide open Rosenkoetter in the end zone. When Badin's turn came about, they were again stuffed 
Women's lnterhall Records 
Welsh 1·3  B.P. 2·0·3  
Lewis 3-2  Walsh 3-0  
Farley 0-2-2  Cavanaugh 1·2·1  
Off-Campus 1·3·1  Badin 0·2·1  
P.E. 4-0  Lyons 3·1  
P.W. 2·1·1  McGlinn 2-2  
Howard 0-1-2  Pangborn 0·3  

Pyros scorch Weasels in battle of Pasquerillas 
By ALISON WELTNER defense consistently broke through Sports Writer P.E.'s offensive line. Stopping any gain of signi11cant yardage, P.W. had time 
Sunday's battle of the Pasquerillas for one last drive. may have resulted in the undefeated After a series of successful passes, the 
P.E. Pyros' fo,urth straight victory, but it Purple Weasels were about 15 yards off did not come without serious pressure the goal with 1:16 left in the game. The from fifth-ranked P.W., who now stand Pyro defense, however, provided suffi­at 2-1-1. cient coverage, and in the end, P.W. 
"I think P.W. is definitely the best could not put the ball in the end zone. team we've played so far," commented Although disappointed with the loss, P.E.'s Ann Searle after the game. "It P.W. was proud of its ability to hold the could have gone either way, but we just first place Pyros within just two points.-fought a little harder." Purple Weasels head coach Martin 
The game was decided midway Marxuach spoke highly of his team's through the first half when P.E. performance, especially after halftime. attempted a two-point conversion for a "The girls played really well in the sec­score of 8-0. llad they just tried for one ond half. They played with great point, P.W. would not have been forced effort," he said. to try for two later on, and the game may have ended in a tie. Breen-Phillips 0, Howard 0 
In the first half, P.E.'s long pass to Searle began a 35-yard drive toward Sunday's game between Breen­the goal. Searle worked hand and hand Phillips, two spots out of first place, and with quarterback Elizabeth Plumber in Howard Hall, two spots above last running the option play, a key aspect of place, should have been a decisive vic­the P.E. offense. After the ball was run tory for B.P. Instead, the game resulted in for a touchdown. Plumber threw a in a scoreless tie. pass to Searle in the end zone for the "[The girls] did a good job, but the two-point conversion. ball just didn't fall in their hands 
The Purple Weasels, however, soon today," said Howard coach Jay picked up momentum. P.E. had posses­lnkgersoll. sion to start the second half but was Indeed, for most of the first half, both soon forced to punt as a result of a key teams put the ball in the air with little tackle in, the backfield followed by an success. Neither side could put together incomplete pass. P.W. then began its a successful series with each team comeback. punting back and forth. 
Two incomplete passes started the An interception near the end of the series, but on third down. Weasel quar­half gave B.P. the ball 19 yards off the terback Liz McKillop threw a long pass goal with four seconds left. Quarterback 
intercepted a Howard pass, but the B.P. ing momentum via several completedto receiver Gina Couri which landed the Katie Meehan's pass went too long, and offense could not register a first clown. passes but again was stopped by B.P.
team within feet of the goal line. The the clock expired w_ith both sides failing Later, B.P.'s Megan Spaks intercepted defense. The final B.P. series once morenext play was run up the middle for a to put points on the scoreboard. 
the ball inside Howard's 20-yard line. came close to the end zone but was stilltouchdown. The Weasels attempted the The second half featured more possi­However, Howard intercepted it right not close enough. At the end of thetwo-point conversion to tie the score bilities to score due to multiple pass back, and Spaks intercepted again for game, neither team had earned a point.
but failed, and P.E. clung to a 8-6 lead. interceptions on the part of both teams, B.P. The Banshees got within about The tie came as a disappointment toAlthough no additional points were but neither team came away with any­three yards of the end zone but again many. "Defense played really well. Wescored, P.W. had its chances. On the thing to show for it. Early in the half, 
failed to score. were just a little off our game today,"Pyros' next series, a strong, quick P.W. Meehan, who also played defense, Howard's next possession began gain-said Breen-Phillips' Erin Smith. 


P.E. 8, P.W. 6 Howard 0, Breen-Phillips 0 Walsh 13, Cavanaugh 0 Lyons 26, Badin 0 
----~ -~ ~-~ 
page 21 The Observer· MEN'S INTERHALL Tuesday, October 7, 1997 


Top-ranked Keenan scrapes by pesky Dawgs 
.. 


By KATHLEEN O'BRIEN Sports Writer 
The top-ranked Keenan Knights blanked the Alumni Dawgs 7-0 Sunday in intnrhall football. 
Keenan overcanw penalties with key plays from the nrst possession of the game. Keenan started out on ol'fnnse. After two plays of no gain and a live-yard penalty, it was third and 15. The pass from quarter­back Craig Ventverloh to Mark Crudo was complPtP, good l'or 15 yards and a first down. After gaining anotlwr first down. C:rudo fumblPd. and Alumni's Michael Aubrey recovered the football. 
Alumni quarterback Alex Gese gave the ball to Jamal Smith on the Dawgs' second play. Smith ran 15 yards for the first down. Ryan Ifealy made a receptio.n for another first down. but Keenan made big defensive plays from there. Alumni had an incomplete pass and lost two yards before Keenan's Brad McDonald inter­cepted a pass from Gese. 
Nick Constanzo brought the ball down field for the Knights, touching the ball four times on Keenan's next possession. A Constanzo fumble was recov-
The Obserer/Peter C•lleta 

ered by Alumni. However, one of the key plays of the game carne when the Dawgs turned the ball over inside Keenan ter­ritory. 
Just before halftime, the Knights found the end zone. Ventverloh made a completion to Nelson Rivera, who went 25 yards for the touchdown. 
Neither team was able to move the ball early in the sec­ond half. Constanzo finally broke loose for a 25-yard run for Keenan, but the Knights were unable to convert for another first down. 
Alumni's Mike Kiernan had a 20-yard reception, but Gese 

Morrissey 14, Off Campus 7 
Dillon 14, Keough 7 
Sorin 7, Fisher 0 
Knott 14, O'Neill 6 
fumbled, and the ball was game to the referees," said recovered by Keenan. Alumni coach Jason Malartsik. 
Keenan tried to hold onto the Keenan coach Kent ball as the clock was running Kershenski said, "I think we down but could not get a first finally had some breaks. It's down. The Knights took a delay tough to play as the No. 1 of game penalty before punting team, but we were able to the ball away. make the plays we needed to 
A pass from Gese to Healy win." gained 22 yards for Alumni, Keenan's record is now 3-0. but time ran out for the Dawgs, Malarts1k added, "We played who dropped to 0-2 on the sea­a great game. We've got to give son. Keenan a lot of credit. They 
"We have no excuses, but we took advantage of our one mis­lost the last five seconds of the take and got a touchdown." 

Alumni gave No. 1 ranked Keenan all it could handle, but the Knights still manged to come away with a 7-0 victory. 
Dillon improves record to 3-0 
By BRIAN KESSLER 
Sports Writer 
On Sunday, the Dillon Big Red put its 2-0 record on the line against Keough in an attempt to prove that they are for real, while the Kangaroos (1-1) were try­ing to bounce back from their 16-0 loss to Keenan. The game was hotly contested from start to finish, but in the end, the Big Red prevailed, 14-7. 
Dillon got on the scoreboard first, jumping out to an early 6-0 lead when senior running back Greg Kuzma scampered down the sideline for a 40-yard touchdown run. The two-point conversion failed, but the Big Red was still out in front. 
The Kangaroos offense struggled througliout the game, so they needed their defense to step up and make a big play. The 'Roos defense did exactly that. Keough took the lead at the end of the first half, tak­ing advantage of a Dillon fumble which it returned for a game-tying touchdown. The extra point was suc­cessful, giving Keough a 7-6 lead at the half. 
The defensive battle carried over into the second half, with neither defense willing to budge. However, Dillon was able to string together a threatening drive late in the fourth quarter. Quarterback Stephan Molina found wide receiver Sean Wetjen who made a sensational one-handed grab, taking the ball down to the Keough one-yard line. Fullback Jason Visner went in for the score on the ensuing play. Kuzma's two-point conversion put the BigHed ahead 14-7. 
Dillon never looked back, as its stingy defense pro­pelled them to victory once again. They only gave up four first downs the entire game. They recovered three fumbles and had an interception by free safety Greg Kuzma. 
Linebackers Jared Elliott and. Kevin O'Connor both put in solid performances for the Big Red. Dillon's defense proved it is a force to be reckoned with and 
·still hasn't given up a single point all season. 
This Sunday, Dillon will bring its overpowering defense and perfect record to a first-ever meeting with arch-rival dorm, Alumni Hall. 
According to captain Greg Kuzma, Dillon is "defi­nitely looking forward to the playoffs, but isn't going to look past this week's match-up against Alumni." 
Men•s IH Football Schedule  
Sunday 10/12 Stepan North 1 p.m. Stanford vs. Off-Campus 2 p.m. Alumni vs. Dillon 3 p.m. Morrissey vs. Keough Stepan South 1 p.m. Zahm vs. Knott 2 p.m. Fisher vs. Carroll 3 p.m. O'Neill vs. Siegfried Wed. 10/15 Stepan West ?p.m. Alumni vs. Morrissey 8p.m. Keenan vs. Stanford Thursday 10/16 Stepan West ?p.m. Fisher vs. O'Neill 8p.m. Sarin vs. Zahm  


• 

'. 
Tuesday, October 7, 1997 The Observer • INTERHALL FOOTBALL 

Knott, Sorin still undefeated 
By PAUL DIAMANTOPOULOS  Early in the third quarter,  surrendered several big runs  
Sporrs Wrirer  Knott forced a fumble on  that cost them the game.  
O'Neill's 30-yardline. A few  "They controlled the line of  
Despite having its best per­ plays later they were able to  scrimmage," said Green Wave  
formance so far this year,  capitalize on the turnover by  eo-captain Sean Lynch. "They  
O'Neill fell to 0-2-0 with a 14-6  scoring another touchdown.  broke a couple of big running  
loss to Knott (2-0-1) on  "It was an overall improve­ plays, and we just couldn't  
Sunday.  nwnt for us (Knott) on defense  lllOVP the ba[J."  
According to junior captain  and in the running and passing  · Clinging to a one touchdown  
David Butz. O'Neill showed  ganw. The difference was that  lead, Sorin's defense came up  
improvement from its past  key players stepped up." stated  big, preventing Fisher's anrial  
game.  Suarez al'tr-r the game.  attack from scoring inside the  
"We jumped out in the lead  red zone by picking ofT two of  
with a long bomb, but then  Sorin 7, Fisher 0  Green Wave quarterback Mikn  
after that, we just couldn't  Schultz's passns.  
hold them," said Butz.  Fisher and Sorin butted  "We anticipated a tough  
After trailing 6-0, Knott  heads in a hy interhall match­ game," said Lynch. "Now we  
interim quarterback Mario  up on Sunday afternoon,  just have to pick it up and try  
Suarez was able to convert a  resulting in a hard-fought 7-0  to get some momentum going  
bootleg into a 46-yard touch­ victory for the Screamin'  into the playoffs."  
down run. After a successful  Otters.  The win lifts Sorin's record  
conversion to make the score  In a game dominated by the  to 2-0-1, while Fisher drops to  
8-6. Knott never looked back.  Sorin offense, Fisher's defense  0-1-1 on the yoar.  
The Observer/John Daily  
Walsh improved its record to 3-0 with a convincing 13-0 win.  
Wed. 10/8Stepan  .7 p.m.~ .... 8 9p.m.  Parnell lifts Walsh to dominating 13-0 win  
ByMATTYUNG Walsh's frugal defense  
Sunday 10/12West Quad  Spom Writer prevented Cavanaugh from scoring and was stingy in Walsh and Cavanaugh allowing first downs. The played Sunday's last group terminated a threat­women's interhall football ening Cavanaugh drive  
game. when hawk-eyed defensive  
On the first drive of the back Laura McGrimley  
game, Walsh quarterback intercepted an errant  
Carolyn Parnell looked Cavanaugh pass.  
sharp, picking apart the To clinch the game,  
Cavanaugh defense while Parnell threw a low and  
maintaining a grin on her hard pass to Luz Maria  
race. Rodriguez for another  
Walsh ran its passing Walsh touchdown.  
plays frequently and confi· The Cavanaugh offense  
Monday 10/13 Stepan  dently behind Parnell's arm was unable to score on any until they got the play they of its drives, and the game were looking for. ended in a 13-0 Walsh win. Parnell connected with "Our team played great deep threat Laura on both sides of the ball,  
McGrimley for a touchdown and the game was all  
pass. Walsh's extra point Walsh," said Walsh lineman  
attempt gave them a 7-0 Julie Sherwin after the  
lead. game.  


Off-Campus battles Farley to scoreless tie 
By BRIAN KESSLER done against Welsh Family Ilall Sports Writer last Sunday, winning the game 14-7. Welsh stayed with Lewis Farley 0, OfT-Campus 0 for most of the game before the Chicks drove the ball for the 
Farley's captain Elizabeth game-winning touchdown. Parker summed up this contest Lewis struck first, scoring a in four words: "a game of touchdown on their opening defense.~ Both offenses had drive. Quarterback Liz Talarico trouble converting and strug­connocted with wide receiver gled throughout the game. Kelly Dillon for the Chicks' According to Pa,rker. "Farley touchdown. Welsh answnrml on was missing a fnw of its key its next series. Stephanie Eden players on offense and was found Sarah Lett in the back of forced to juggle positions." the end zone, tying the score at 
The Finest's recniving corps 7-7. had difficulty all game whieh This score held up until the resulted in few first clmvns. fourth quarter when Lewis' 
The Off-Campus Crime had Maureen Ntwille intereepted similar difficulty with its Eden's pass with two minutns offense. They never seemed to remaining and returned it for a be in sync and could not t:on­touchdown, giving the Chicks nect on key pass plays. the vir:tory. However. the Crime got it Despite the loss, Welsh coach together·late in the ganw. They Kevin Carrigan was pleased put together. a foul"th quarter with his team's play. drive that brought thl'm to the ''I'm proud of' the way our Farley 10-yardline. With only girls played. and I'm espoeially seconds left. the Crime madll happy with the play or our one last desperatn attempt to defense." score a touchdown. Tlwy were Turnovers were the downfall turned away though when of the Whirlwind. They were Farley's Kelli Shannon inter­intercepted four times which cepted Jen Roe's pass in the end killed several potential offensive zone. Shannon's interception, threats. her second of the afternoon, Lewis cornerback Dina Brick secured the tie fbr the Finest. said her team "is looking great 
and has a lot of confidence Lewis 14, Welsh 7 heading into the playoffs." Welsh fell to 1-3, while Lewis The Lewis Chicks got the job improved its record to 3-2. 



Tuesday, October 7, 1997 The Observer • TODAY page 23 
CELEBRITIES ~ORN Of\ THIS DAY: lliM1ca laq~l'r, fling Cn>'hy, L1rry Catlin, .'1.1omi C.1mpbt'il 
DEAR EUGENIA: I "'"' bnrn nn 
Nov. 5, 19</6. at f1:0ll a.m. in Engbnd. I dm onlv n·t1llv concerned w1lh one thin~: v\.',111 \<\'i.n t1 lotlf'rv thts vern? 
' G.1inbler ~1t Ht'.\l't 
DEAn GAMI:IlEI{ AI HEART: Most Scorpios tend to hang onto their cash, but in your case, you have the planet~ \1ercury and Venu5 in the sign Sagittarius in your first house, and this brings out the charming but risk-taking element in you. Believe it or not, this is nol a bad year for you where coming into money that you don't work for is concerned. I must cHid that I'm not •l big lh,liever in winning lotterie<>, but to help you along, your lucky num­ber> are 2, 5, 9, 11, 20, 36. Your best days to buy tickets are May 9, 1, 4, 19, ZJ and 28, June 1, 5, 10, 15, 20, 24 and 28. Remember that you only need one tkket to win, so don't go spending o whole Jot on tickets. You can .l!so come into money through smart inve!!l.tment~, insurance or tax rebales, inhE"rilrmce or even finding 01 hidden asset that vou didn't rc,alize vou had, like an ol;i hand-me·down ihat you m•y think is worthless. 
ARIES (March 21·April 20): Your uniqat' .1nd nnginal 1d.ea~ m,1y bt:­bh,ch•d. Jntluenlinl mdividu.1l~ mav It'd that you ,\ft._' clht'itd of \'Ol\f timt•.. 
TAL.f(US (April Zl·May 211: o;n·,_ L'tlltll'S nmn~rnin~ tm.HKi,,J mcltters may ~t·t you llfi. Kt.•t•p y{lUf COlli; }'Pttr rt>putati<Jn i~ .1t ~takt.•. 
G~MI.'II ll'v!dv 22-June 21): Edu· Gational pursuits~ sht)ttld be nn vnur 
MEN ABOUT CAMPUS 

MOTHER GOOSE & GRIMM DAN SULLIVAN 
MIKE PETERS 


Wanted: Reporters, pho... tographers and editors. Join The Observer staff. 
DILBERT lT GOT A LITTLE ~DRING
I Hl\0 fUN WI-\EN YOU TRIED TO
TI\LKING TO STEER THE CON\JERS~­
YOU TONIGHT, TION AWAY FROM ME.
GILBERT. BUT l 1'-\~NA.GED TO 51-\UT '(0U DOWN e,y LOOKING UNrNTERE5TEO. 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 40 Medicine for 10 Suffix with what ails you billion
1 Dateless 
41 "--me!" 71 Stately place
5 Chitchat 44 Lethargy 72 Barks 
9 Chorus voice 
45 Second of three 73 Pig food 14 Pasty 
virtues 15 Prince William's 
46 Where to see a school DOWN
hula 16 Cancel 47 Draw 
1 Practice with 17"--me." 49 Dick Francis Rocky book "Dead
20 Stop working 2Saga 21 Pull a con 
3Gotdown

51 Make a mistake 
22 Clear tables and 4 "Understand?"
52 Unopened
such 54 Porn 
5TV 23 Where le nez is money-raiser56 Nothing's25 Door opener 
alternative &Gobbled up 27 Do film work 
59 "Phooey!" 30 Pillow cover 61 Gets used (to) 32 Coercion 65"--me?" 36 Bikini tops 68 Eskimo boat 38 Provo neighbor 69 Christen 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
34 Sound of the 60's
18 Very, in Valence 35 Scrub
19 Currency, in 37 Glaswegians,Capetown e.g.
24 "Planet of the 
39lsgloomy
Apes" planet 42 Former Austrian
26 Range choice prince

-7+:-:+.:-t"!!~ -=+:-:+=+:=-t::-1 27 Gaping pit 
43 Home 28 So-peep's staff 
wreckers 29 Brownish gray 48 Affronted 31 French wine 50 Star-Kist district product 
u 
" 
~ 
! 
"' 

SCOTT ADAMS 
lT'S DILBERT, NOT GILBERT. 
55 Oompah instruments 56 Buzzing 57 Champagne Tony of golf 58"--Eyes" (Eagles hit) 
60 Siamese, now 62 Stir up 63 Prefix with 
dollar or trash 64 Escalator part 66 ---relief 67 Bit of electricity 
Answers to any three clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420-5656 (75¢ per minute). 
Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
YOUR HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 
rtgcndo. Yuu will learn €'<lsily and en· 
jn\' tllC" romp.1ny you nll"ct i\t thC' )('('­
turl's you attend. 
CANCER (iune 22-Julv 22): 
Emp!y pn.lmist~~ regarding fii1anl'iill 
m,1ttcr~ ~trc ~vidcnt. Lnok over legal 
document~ do.sdy ~flm:• you !!ig:n un 
tilt' dotted hne. 
lEO (july 23-Aug. 23): Your do· 
mr'Stic scene n'lav be o;nme\"-'hat un.;t;'\­
ble. Tak hL't!d oi .1dvi<" !;iven by do"' 
frit•nds 1\:'f.CHUinb}'our person,tliift•. 
VTRC.O !Aug. 24-Scpt. 22!: Don't 
muspt•nd on luxury itl'm>. Lmding 
nr hl,lffO\'\'ing dmong fri~nd~ will nun 
the conn~~l·tion. 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 23): Jnwst­
lllt.'nts made tod<\v 'rdll not he \\rCII 
thuught uut. Slt•t•r clmr oi juinl filMH­
cial Vl'nturcs. 
SCORPIO fOct. 2-l-:'llov. 22): Pwb­
k·m~ in tht.· home ~'Ire likdv. lil' sure to 
do i1 !-i.1f('t}' check of vour "'wiring, \\',1­
t~r or ~as pipes, cl~ctrical ~quipmcnt 
and vour door lock~. 
SAGITTARIUS (Nm•. 23-Dec 211: lJJ"h.iL~rhnndl~dnes~ i.; l~vidl~nt when de.1img with wllea~ue> or relative>. Get ,,IJ the f.1cts bdore vou retdliate. 
CAPRICOR'I (Dec. 22-Jan. 20): Take a long. hard lnnk ,11 investmenb bdort• you lay yuur Ca>h on the table. You could easily overt•xtend yourself. Childn•n mav cost you dt'ariv if vnu 
~1rt• t'\no:,~ivdy gt:.•ne.WU!'>. · ., 
AQLARIUS (jan. 21-feb. 18): Dr,1<;tic altC'I'.ltiOilG tn ~'Ollr position will occur if vou ha"cn'l taken the 
time to deal \\;ith small but important detdib in your JOb. Be prepared lo make ch.lngf's. 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Rela· til'cs will cause problem> tod•y. You mu~t not act impulsively. Situations app.',lr to h'• gt'tting out of l1.1nd ,,t .1n t•mothlnal level. Step ba\.k and stay calm. 

Born Today: Ynu'n• got .1lwort of gold, hut that dO<'Sn't mPan tl1.1t vou havp to gh:l. vour h,lrd-t.'llrnt-d cash m":~v. and that'~ cxactlv what vou'll bt:i inclined lo ~io lhi!'> yeM if you du. · "" ~ 
.. 






SPORTS 
page 24 Tuesday, October 7, 1997 


By BILL HART Spons Writer 
Notre Dame will end a six­match home stretch tonight, hosting the Illinois St<ite Hedbirds in a match which has turned out to be one of the most highly contested of the season. 
The Irish have a record of 4-5 against the Hedbirds, who have proven to be diflicult opponents in the past. The last five matches played have gone the full length of five games, and the fifth game of each match has gone either way by a mar­gin of only two or three points. 
Last year, the Irish were in a 2-0 defieit when current seniors Molly McCarthy and Carey May almost managed to bring the Irish back to victory. before eventually losing in the fifth game, 15-13. 
"We know a little of how they compete from how they've done in the past," McCarthy com­mented. "They play tough and with a high level of intensity. They always play one of the best matches of the year against us. It's going to be a hard-fought match." 
Illinois State (12-5) is hoping to improve its record, riding on a four-game winning streak. The Redbirds have won 23 straight Missouri Valley confer­ence matches dating back to September of last year. This year, they are 8-0 in conference play. 
Illinois State has gone to the NCAA Tournament nine times, last year winning at home against Miami of Ohio in three games, before losing in the sec­
• VOlLEYBALL 
ND looks for .500 with ISU 
ond round at Florida in three straight games. 
The Hedbirds arc one of seven Irish opponents this sea­son who have a winning record against them. They arc led by junior opposite Michelle Kutcher. who has an average of 
3.92 kills per game, and fresh­man Kr.ndra llaselhorst, who leads the conference with a hit­ting percentage of .342. 
"We haven't done in-depth scouting of them yet," Brown said about the Hedbirds. "But every time we play them, it's a tough match. We've gone five games just about every time we've played them, so we know it's going to be a battle." 
Notre Dame (9-5) is on a three-game winning streak, the longest of this year. Over the 
past three matches, the team has beaten each of its oppo­nents in three games, compiling a hitting percentage of .391. All three wins took an average time of just over an hour to complete. 
The Irish also have an incn~d­ible record in conference play, having defeated their past 68 conference opponents, dating back to 1990. The team has also won 51 of its past 52 home matches against unranked opponents. Each of Notre Dame's losses this season has come at the hands of ranked opponents, including several current top 10 teams ­Florida, Washington State, and Florida. 
The match will begin tonight at 7 p.m. in the Joyce Center. 

• SMC VOLLEYBALL 
Bethel puts down SMC in three 
By SHANNON RYAN 
SportS Writer 
As the final plays were execut­ed in last night's volleyball match, Bethel College's pig-tailed 
-jokester, Lisa Davis. impersonat­ed Saturday Night Live's Mary Catherine Gallagher. The Pilots' fans clapped in uni­son chanting "B.C." One fan even found a janitor's mislaid broom and waved it to signify Bethel's 3­0 sweep of Saint Mary's. The opposite side of the court was noticeably calmer. The Belles bit their nails and ehewed their lips, while fans joined them in their glum expres­sions. Relying on atmosphere alone, no bystander would argue that the Belles had just fallen 9­15. 13-15, 3-15 to the 18-5 Bethel College Pilots. Recognizing the spirit of her opponents, senior co-captain Meg Kelly said, "We need to get more excited and play with heart." Heart isn't the Belles' only suf­fering organ. Apparently, vocal cords are another weakness. 
"Communication was a major problem tonight," said Kelly. 
From the first game, when the Belles fell behind 7-0, Saint Mary's was constantly in the position or having to fight back. 
Failing to take advantage of any opportunity, the Belles were plagued with miscommunication and passing. 
"Our passing is typieally fantas­tic," Saint Mary's first-year coach Jennie Joyce said. "But tonight we had no passing, so we had no attack." 
They earned a point here and there but basically played an inconsistent game as Bethel's Maggie Wilkey wrapped up the first game. 15-9. 
Thn Pilots' setter Davis started the second game on thn right foot, jumping to a 6-2 start until Belles' Agnes Bill gained control. 
Bill's serving and team-high three kills, along with Connolly, Kelly, and Hodovich's blocking, temporarily combated Bethel. 
However, the Belles' defense could not handle the Pilots. Bethel broke the 13-13 tug-of­war and took the second game, 15-13. 

Joyce decided it was time to make ehanges and utilized fresh­men Ashley Uebelhor and Cindy Traub for the third game. 
Although a controversial move, Joyce did not regret this decision. 
"I thought it would help with our passing," Belles coach nxplained. "It gave us a strong front line. We would have been eaten alive, otherwisn." 
The Belles disintegrated in every aspect in the third game, scoring only three points to the delight of Bethel. 
"Our girls are capable of com­ing in and playing like they did the third game," Pilots head coach Carin Zielinski said. "We were able to regroup, and we were prepared." 
Saint Mary's, however, could ofl'cr no conerete explanation for the team's demise. 
They do not leave this game empty handed. however. The Belles plan on learning from their mistakes and preparing for upeoming games. 
• BIG EAST PLAYERS OF THE WEEK 

Grubb and Erikson honored by Big East 
Special to The Observer 
PROVIDENCE, fU. 
Notre Dame women's soc­cer sophomore defender Jen Grubb and freshman for­ward Meotis Erikson have 
, earned 
r------­Big East defensive and rook­ie of the w e e k honors for their perfor-~~L_~_J mances this past week. Grubb helped the Irish to two shutout wins over Indiana and Boston College and had a career­high three assists agalnst the Hoosiers to win defensive 
player of the week for the second time in four weeks. 
Erikson is one of Notre Dame's hottest players over the last five games, scoring at least one point in those games. She has scored six goals in the last four games and seared the game-win­ning goal against Villanova on Sept. 28. and assisted on the game winner against Boston College in a 2-0 Irish win on Sunday, Oet. 5. She also scored the games' other goal against Boston College. Erikson is fifth on the team in scoring with eight goals and four assists for 20 points. In Big East games, she leads the team in goals with six and is tied with Shannon Boxx in scoring with 20 points. 

~ 
at Pittsburgh, October 11, 2:30p.m. 

ea •SEE PAGES 20-22 
vs. Illinois State, Today, 7 p.m. 
fit% at Georgetown, 

'f 
FOR iNTERHAll 
\~ October II, II a.m. 

Soccer vs. Kalamazoo 
Q) FOOTBAll


sf' ~ 4v 
.....,
Today, 3 p.m. 
vs. Syracuse, 
COVERAGE
M October II, 7:30p.m. 

=
~ 





