
Wednesday, December 3, 1997• Vol. XXXI No. 63 
THE INDEPENDENT N WSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARYS 
Griffin calls his accusers in Student Union 'cowardly' 
By HEATHER MACKENZIE Assistant News Editor 
Student body president Matt Griffin wants to know who is against him. 
"These are direct attacks on 
me." Griffin .----------, said in refer­ence to the petition cir­culating to 
0
recall him from office. "If these people work with me or 


Griffin 
are in the Student Union. they need to have the courage to come for­ward and sign the petition per­sonally." 
Griffin made these statements after a telephone conversation 

with Jeremy Lingenfelser, author of the petition, led Griffin to believe that many of the petition's creators were members of the Student Union, specifically, the Student Senate. "[Lingenfelserl came forward that he was a front man 
'USING MR. in this peti­LINGEN­
tion and that other people
FELSER AS A 
in the FRONT IS A VERY S t u d e n t Union were 
COWARDLY THING behind this," TODO.' Griffin said. "Using Mr. Lingenfelser as a front is a very cowardly thing to do, especially because the allegations are based on untruths and miscon­
see OUSTER/ page 4 




Roemer explains Fast Track vote 
By BRAD MCDONALD News Writer 
U.S. Hepresentative Tim Horm1~r of Indiana's 3rd Congressional District spoke against fast track legislation yesterday in the Jordan Auditorium.. 
Hoerner explained that he recently opposed Fast Track legislation because of the bal­looning trade deficit. a lack of direction in the bill and the exclusion of sufficient educa­tion and training. 
The trade deficit, which is currently at $115 billion, is the highest since 1987 and is hindering the growth of the economy. Goals were not outlined in the Fast Track legislation like they have been in other recent bills, for which Hoerner voted. 
Finally, he stated that he hoped the effects of a trade bill would move from welfare to education and training in business. 
see ROEMER I page 4 



SMC students talk about internships 
By ARIANN BUTLER Nt"Ws Writer 
Thn variety of internship opportunities available to stu­dnnts was the topic of last night's lecture in Stapleton Lounge at Saint Mary's. 
"I learned a lot about the opportunities available to me," Tracy Patzner said in regard to lwr summer internship at Ford Motor Company. 
l'atzner spoke last night at the student internship forum along with Eileen Newell. Tara Mooney. Tracy Grimes, Hachelle llall and Pratima Yarlagadda. 
Christine Hichardson from the Counseling and Career Development Center also con­tributed to the forum. which was held in Stapleton lounge at Saint Mary's. 
The lectures stressed the importance of internships in regard to resume building and 
job experience and as Richardson said, "opens a door for you in the business world." 
Most of the internships were paid positions, but Yarlagadda did volunteer work. She runs a summer camp called WIN (Working to Instill New atti­tudes) which is geared towards helping underpriveleged chil­dren. The camp meets only one month a year but it takes her all year to plan and organize events and appropriate the needed funds. Yarlagadda is presently seeking paid camp counselors to help with the camp. 
"You not only have a chance to build your resume and earn money but a chance to make a difference in a child's life," Yarlagadda said. 
Richardson stressed the importance of taking internships even if they are not paid or can­not be used for credits. She said 
see INTERNI page 4 


Project Warmth sets goal of 2,000 coats 
By LIZ NAGLE News Writer 
For the second year, Project Warmth, a campus-wide coat drive organized by Gear For Sports, is fostering the spirit of giving among Notre Dame stu­dents. Students are being asked to "share the warmth" by donating old coats for distribu­tion to needy people, with the added incentives of receiving a bookstore discount and partic­ipating in a hall competition for cash prizes. 
Susie Thompkins, campus organizer of the event, explained that the hall competi­tion was implemented last year in the hope that more coats would be donated in a group effort. This year's hall prizes will be $1000 for first place and $500 for second, determined by the number of coats donated divided by the number of dorm residents. Gear For Sports pro­vides these prizes, as well as the 25 percent discount off all Gear brand jackets at the Hammes Bookstore for all par­ticipants. 
Last year Notre Dame was chosen as the pilot site for Project Warmth and had such great success that Gear For Sports intends to expand the drive to include four new cam­puses next year. Thirteen hundred coats were collected on the Notre Dame campus last year, and an additional 300 coats were donated by Gear For Sports. This year's goal is 2,000 coats, and 350 have been collected thus far, even before many of the dorms have deliv­ered their first batch. The drive will end this Friday. 
The coats will be donated to the Logan Center, the Center for the Homeless and the Women's Care Center in con­junction with a larger South Bend clothing-drive. 



page 2 
• INSIDE COLUMN 

Creativity: Good 
Well folks, it's that Colleen Gaughen time of the year again . . . Assisrant Viewpoint Ediror anticipating Christmas, figuring out DART schedules (my personal favorite), stressing about fmals, enjoying the snow (if it ever gets here), and preparing for the absolute plethora of dances this weekend. 
Formals, SYRs and Military Battalions are all highlights and milestones of our semesters and relationships here. They are the hot topic of con­versation before, during, and long after the event is over. 
These stunning nights out on the town (or in your basement) are as central to our social lives here as the Friday-night-before-the-big-game parties and goofing off in the hallway late at night when we are overcome with silliness. 
We remember these sometimes special, some­times spazzy dances through photographs and memories, but also through the unique Notre Dame tradition of gift-giving. 
Is anyone else sick of dumb toys or candy in a mug?! It's very sweet (no pun intended), but c'mon. We are all very interesting individuals ... let's be original! 
The following gifts have actually been received by students and are simply unacceptable: Spam, chocolate-covered Exlax, glow-in-the-dark-rub­ber lizards, mousetraps, condom pops (hello! this is Notre Dame), a granola bar, and a ham sand­wich. But for Pete's sake, do not show up empty­handed. You are not enough! 
Be thoughtful and pay attention to your date's interests. That's why you have to at least have a convers11tion with him or her. You know, a con­versation? 
Gentlemen: if you go with flowers, climb out on a limb and get her an orchid. Or a tulip. Or a sun­flower. Or a poinsettia! Roses work for those wacky traditionalists out there, but please ... never yellow (unless of course you want to keep the stallion in the corral). Get to know her instead of asking her two hours before. (You know you do, don't deny it! The ladies around here fret for weeks, even MONTHS about this!) 
Ladies: it's all about baking. I conducted an informal survey (of one person) and the number one answer for what guys would like most to receive is cookies or brownies. You'll also get in good with his roommate. 
Creativity and homemade gifts are by far the best ways to go. The most memorable gift I ever received was a beautiful collage of campus pho­tos taken by my date. 
You cannot get by with just the T-shirt. Sorry. 
Board games are way cool though, and they will actually be used instead of tossed in the dumpster with Papa John. Does anyone else miss Candyland, Sorry!, Life, Chutes and Ladders, Operation, Pictionary, Connect Four, (so it's not technically a board game. Sue me.), Monopoly, Battleship, Trivial Pursuit, Scrabble, Balderdash, and Clue?! I know! 
Fish are pretty rad too. (Even though my room­mate's committed suicide by jumping out of its little bowl last week.) Dining hall trays work, as do Godiva chocolates, meaningful movies or music, Legos, coloring books (preferably with crayons), poetry, a roll of quarters for laundry, and stuffed animals (but cool cuddly ones, not the yucky ones you get out of the claw game at the bowling alley). 
So go crazy and get creative. And if you must resort to candy from the Huddle Mart, at least be festive and put it in a stocking. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
• T-ooAY's STAFF  
News  Graphics  
Dave F reddoso  Melissa Weber  
Anne Marie Mattingly  Production  
Sarah Hiltz  Tara Greishop  
Sports  Lab Tech  
Brian Kessler  Joe Stark  
Viewpoint  
Mary Margaret Nussbaum  
Accent  
Rachel Torres  

The Observer (USPS 599 l-4000) is published Monday rhrough Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
4,~,~A.G-8(f ~6 
Showers T·storms Rain Flurries Snow Ice Sunny Pl. Cloudy Cloudy Via Assoctated Press GraphicsNet 
Atlanta  46  56  Iowa City  34  35  Peoria  35  36  
Baltimore  28  48  Jackson  54  64  Rochester  26  34  
Cincinnati  41  47  Kansas City  35  35  St. Louis  40  44  
Denver  15  34  Lansing  35  35  Tulsa  40  42  
Houston  55  68  New York  33  50  Washington  27  50  

The Observer • INSIDE Wednesday, December 3, 199/' 



utside the Dome 
Compiled from U-Wire reports 
University of Virginia students admit to assault on freshman 
• INDIANA UNIVERSITY Professor harassed by students 
BLOOMINGTON 
Over the course of the semester, Dr. Chana Kai Lee has endured every professor's worst fear. "My fear is that some student, regardless of what his or her grade is, will feel the need to get back at me. It will be a very long time before the classroom feels the way it used to," Lee said. A series of continuous classroom disruptions came to a crescendo when she received two separate anonymous messages. While sitting in her office Nov. 5, the phone rang. "You fat nigger bitch," snarled a male voice. The next day, an unsigned letter appeared in her campus mailbox. Lee said it was a "detailed and vicious assault on my teaching and person." Since then, measures have been adopted to help ensure her safety. The IU Police Department has issued increased patrols in the areas Lee frequents. Lee has filed four separate complaints against students in her class, three against one group of students and one against another group. She claims the groups of students continually created disruptions during lectures. 
• MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY 
Alcohol incidents continue to plague MIT 
CAMBRIDGE 
MIT is investigating yet another campus fraternity in the wake of allegations that a Boston University student suf­fered alcohol poisoning after attending a party at the Theta Chi fraternity house. The Boston Police Department issued a violation complaint to the house after a first-year student, Marie Figueredo, 18, said she had been drinking there on Nov. 14. According to the report, Figueredo drank so much that her roommate called an ambulance. She was treated at Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center and released the next day. "There has been an ongoing investigation in the deans office," MIT spokesperson Robert J. Sales said Monday. "If we find that people are at fault, there could be severe con­sequences." At present, the fraternity has not been placed under any sanctions. 
• SOUTH BEND WEATHER • NATIONAl WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forecast 
AccuWeather'"forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 
The AccuWeather®forecast for noon, Wednesday, Dec. 3. 30s 
~~---./''----------•. H L 
' 
·:·.:::·.::=· 

Friday i 0). _34 24 
FRONTS:

' ~ 31:. 23 

.....,......... ........_.._ ...............
Satur~ay .,._,::·.,::· r \:7 
COLD WARM STATIONARY 
0 1997 Accuweather, Inc. 

Pressure
Sun.y >~-34 22 


HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T·STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY
:tJ'v"'\)"-···-.,.. ,.. /J\1~:·; ' • 

• UNIVERSITY OF fLORIDA 
Scholarships created from fine money 
GAINESVILLE 
UF will receive $2 million from state officials to help cre­ate scholarships for financially strapped students. Florida Insurance Commissioner Bill Nelson has announced that $10 million from a fine imposed on the Prudential Insurance Company and $10 million in private donations will be divided among eight public state universities. The money given to UF will" provide 60 need-based scholar­ships to students studying business ethics beginning next fall. UF Provost Betty Capaldi said the undergraduate scholarships were welcomed and will allow deserving stu­dents the chance to continue following their dreams. "Every year we'll have these scholarships," Capaldi said. "Any time we can help student it's terrific." The $10-mil­lion Prudential reserve was part of a $15-million penalty imposed lasl February on Prudential, which was accused of convincing customers to buy more life insurance than they needed. To be eligible for the scholarships. students must enroll in courses on business ethics. 
• UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN 
Rose Bowl tickets scarce for students 
ANN ARBOR As University of Michigan students flocked yesterday to purchase Rose Bowl tickets, administrators crossed their fingers and hoped they would be able to live up to their promise of providing every student with a ticket. "If all 20,000 student season-ticket holders want to go to Pasadena, then we're going to have a shortfall," said Keith Molin, senior associate athletic director. Walter Harrison, Vice President for University Relations, said he expected that 5,000-7,000 students would show up during the sale to buy tickets. If more showed up, the ticket ollice planned to accommodate students by dipping into the tickets allotted for alumni. "We will make sure every student who wants a ticket gets a ticket," Harrison said. Seating assignments will be given on a first-come, first-served basis in Pasadena. 
turn themselves in. 
The alleged assailants spent a night in jail and were arraigned last week, Curtis said. McCluney, Kintz and Harrison were released on a $1,000 secured bond; Smith was released for $2,500 based upon evidence present­ed at the hearing. 
Curtis said the trial date is set for Dec. 11. "This is not behavior tolerat­ed by the University," Asst. Dean of Students Aaron Laushway said. "Universi-ty students do not beat up on other University students -it is deplorable." 
The assailants not only face the criminal charge of malicious wound­ing -a felony offense -but proba­bly will face judicial charges as well, Laushway said. 
Following the criminal trial, the stu­dents face possible expulsion by the University Judiciary Committee. 
CHARLOTTESVILLE 

Four University students each may face up to 20 years behind bars and up to $100,000 in fines for the assault of a first-year student last month. 
Wesley McCluney, Richard Smith, Bradley Kintz and Harrison Tigrett ­all Delta Kappa Epsilon fraternity members -turned themselves in last week in connection with the assault of first-year College student Alexander Kory. 
Kory was attacked Nov. 21 at 5:15 
a.m.. while walking to his dormitory. Kory said his attackers followed him in a car for some distance before dis­appearing. 
Later he encountered the four men again. After exchanging a few words, Kory said one of the men punched him twice. He said as he was bent over, one of the men kicked him in running away and knocking on doors until someone let him in to call 911. 


As a result of a broken bone above his teeth, Kory will have to wear a brace for a few weeks and may need a root canal. 
The four students turned them­selves in after University Police offi­cials sent out a mass e-mail alerting students to the attack. University Police spokeswoman Kirsten Curtis said she believes the circulation of the e-mail prompted the students to 
----------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 
~------­

Wednesday, December 3, 1997 The Observer· CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
"As for the $15,000 and the computer incident which

Freshman council elects officers Ethics 
occurred at the beginning of the 
By ERIN LUM 
News Writer 
The freshman class can look forward to being more involved and aware of class events next semester, according to newly elected Freshman Council president Gerry Olinger. 
In a meeting held early last month, the Freshman Council voted for officers who will lead the way for Notre Dame's first year students. 
Officers elected included president Gerry Olinger (Morrissey), vice president Anna Benjamin (PEl. treasurer Brian O'Donoghue (Keough). and secretary Maggie Wood (Cavanaugh). 
Also elected were five com­mittee chairpersons: Andy Villier (Fisher) for the spiritual committe!:', Megan Strader (Farley) for the social commit­tee, Geoff Heiple (O'Neill) for the fundraising committee, Mike Heinz (St. Ed's) for the service committee, and Diana Boyer (Lyons) for the publicity committee. 

As head of the Freshman Council, Olinger outlined his ideas to help create a more unified class. Among them was a plan to change the location of council meetings from La Fortune to individual dorms on each of the quads. Olinger said this wifl encourage more stu­dent involvement and input into the council's decisions and operations. In addition, Olinger said a Freshman Council web­site is currently under produc­tion and nearing completion. The site will include a list of class officers, committees, upcoming events, and repre­sentatives' e-mail addresses. 
"My biggest goal is to get in touch with the freshman class," Olinger said. "The hardest part is making people feel they're a part of [the class] because if they don't feel they're a part of it, we won't be effective." 
Publicity committee chair­woman Diana Boyer agreed. In addition to the website, Boyer said a freshman newsletter is also being discussed as a way to keep students informed. Minutes from council meetings, upcoming events, and other information related to the freshman class would be included in the newsletter. 
"I know this will be a big responsibility and a big chal­lenge because we have a big class, but the website and newsletter will keep freshmen informed about what we're doing," Boyer said. 
Olinger agreed that the biggest task facing the council will be to create open lines of communication with first year students. 
"A lot of times people don't know about all the activities available to them," he said. "We want to keep people up to date." 

continued from page 1 
Matt was two months ago. Since that time we haven't had any problems with him serious enough to merit the attention of the committee." 
Although Boyd attests that the committee investigated "a dozen issues" concerning Griffin, the committee never submitted any formal recommendations to the senate for a review or impeach­ment of the president. 
"Our job is to investigate any allegations against any Student Union member," Boyd said. "In this case, we listened to his side of the story to rule out rumor and untruths. He denied or pro­vided excuses for each allega­tion: that is to be expected. The result of the whole investigation was that we decided not to press for impeachment." 
Some of the specific charges against Griffin in the petition involve his "intentional misman­agement of undergraduate stu­dent funds." This allegation accuses Griffin of an "illicit attempt to purchase a computer for the Office of the President without approval by either the Student Union treasurer or the Student Activities Office" and "his deliberate misrepresenta­tion to the Financial Management Board concerning the need for $15,000 to publish The Campus Hook-Up." 
Boyd acknowledged that the issue had already been settled on this point. 

~~~·;,~,::;-:~,';,',:;".;:';;.;:~ C...~·-~ •••nm 'J'"'"": i ,Jrili!IIDTravel _ 
t: (([[: Council oplnteraalional ~ Educational Exchange 
semester," Boyd continued, "the committee deliberated that they could have been simple mis­takes. [Griffin] has never been accused by our committee of pocketing any money." 
Student body treasurer Nerea Arrien said that the charges against Griffin involving student government funds are "mistakes that he made that I later clari­fied to him." 
"The computer issue was not a malicious attempt to deceive me or Student Activities," she said. "[Griffin] used money from last year that was encumbered in the budget to buy a new com­puter for the office [after his computer was stolen during the summer]. He signed his own requisition instead of having Student Activities do it like he was supposed to." 
.Arrien said that because this incident happened in the begin­ning of the year, "it was an easy mistake to make." 
The allegation that Griffin misrepresented the need for $15,000 for the publication of 
The Campus Hook-Up was "a big lie," according to Arrien. 
"[Griffin] actually asked for less money at the allocation meeting," she said. "We decided to give him more money so he could expand the publication from four to eight pages." 
Griffin acknowledged that many of the charges raised in the petition had already been discussed with him privately by members of the Ethics Committee and Arrien. 
"All the issues in the petition were things that happened with­in my first month and a half in office," Griffin said. "I have been approached informally by the Ethics Committee and Arrien and all these allegations have been cleared up." 
Griffin concluded that the 

Student Union has no problem 
with him as president because 
there have never been any for­
mal charges brought against 
him within the Student Senate 
"There have never been any ·formal accusations, so therefore, in my view, I have done nothing wrong," he said. "I honestly think I have learned from my mistakes and corrected my ways, and now I live up to every expectation in that constitution and more." 
Michelle Krupa contributed to this report. 





oo~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~oo
'T\.s {k.e 
s~~so~ {o 


iSPRING BREAK~
b.e FkEEZilv'! OR_ 15/T? 

~ • SUPER$~A~. m 
(/..~ t\ck.th <Tru.( ,..Jv\c.t !Vie-t p.top(.t 

00 l}ttf~ 00 
ru BAYFRONT ~'J.. 00
London $Z56 

lEI 4,6,80RlOPERSONS $ZJM $ 51 9 ONLY5LEFT! m mCALINDA BEACH ss?cn '629#I STUDENT G1

Paris $Z3Z 

00 4 PERSONS 1pV HOTEL! 1!1 IU 2 OR 3 PERSONS JUST $699 each! • G1 
IEJ $ ~ $FROM I!J

Cancun $Z38 
99 

OO DAYS INN . OO
San Jose, GR $280 

00 DELUXE BEACHVIEW $ Nt\ '419 dr,.:E m
lil HB><~< W<TI'HOO < 00 0 ~~ ill
J... ...--IICil>UIW'Otl\ 
fill>• .., t..WI .. tOIIW'I M .,, --·-... _.,,. •­
• aT--· 
-•••u• U-we, •-.•.,. Mt,...-. l•f\ i-• u,
........-.,.,,.......,....,..~·-·--01111 
....(tltc-.-'rl:-,...._~.c.u--~-S'It·..ou­


oo~i·ll~i=·~~i1:1#1s i!9 m 
tiMIIIJITravel 
CIEE: Council on International 
-
tducattonal f.x(h~"'t: 
1-800-2-COUNCIL 
1-800-226-8624 


CLASS 1998 

fRff fOOD TOniTf 6DM ft/S CLUI) 
FOLLO~DBY 



BREW&VIEW 
WITH 


CIDUSTMAS VACATION 
9Pl\ll 
MUST BE 21 


s '98 
Trip to 


JAl\TUAIY 84TH 
TIX 01\T BALl rBIDAYAM 
L.AFUl\T ll\TI'O DBSK 
$4S 
page4 The Observer • NEWS Wednesday, December 3, 1997 
Intern 
continued from page 1 
that the experience is nonethe­less invaluable. 
Richardson also suggested using internships as rule-outs, "checking out a field to see if it is what you want to do." 

Ouster 
continued from page 1 
strued events," he continued. 
Griffin thinks that if members of the Student Union agree with having him recalled, they should openly support the peti­tion. 
"If they feel so strongly about removing me from office, then. they need to stand up and say 'This is what I believe,"' he said. 
Lingenfelser said that many members of Student Union sup­port this petition but are reluc­tant to sign. 
"A lot of the people working with Matt will not sign because of the conflict of interest," Lingenfelser said, "but they are supporting this petition under the table." 
But he reiterated his con­

Roe01er 
continued from page 1 
Bill Clinton invited Roemer and several of his colleagues to the White House for dinner. The president expressed his gratitude for their "whipping" in the Most Favored Nation bill and attempted to gain similar support on his Fast Track Legislation. Roemer was not swayed, however, as he professed his staunch 
The Counseling and Career Development Center and the Notre Dame job fare are the best places to discover internships, and the best way to secure an internship is, according to Patzner, is to be "ambitious and aggressive. 
The Student Activity Council sponsored the lecture, one in a series called "Life of the Mind." 
tention that the petition conveys a general sentiment of much of the student body, not just mem­bers of the Student Union. 
"It is not just political people who are mad," he said. "The average students are embar­rassed by Griffin's actions. If I am a front, I am a front for the student body, and hopefully one that will be effective. Matt Griffin is guilty." 
Lingenfelser would not com­ment on whether or not he had gathered enough signatures for senate to hold a recall vote, but he said that the belief that he will not gather enough signa­tures is "a joke." 
"I think we will get 50 per­cent of the student body to sign this very easily," he said. ''I've gotten phone calls all day from people who support me and want to sign the petition. I've got the support of the stu­dents." 
opposition to the bill for ethi­cal reasons. 
Roemer also stressed the importance of ethics and lead­ership as the influential factor in congressional decision making rather than party bias, although it is difficult at times. Roemer followed by expressing his fondness for a quote by Thomas Jefferson, "'When it comes to matters of style, you swim with the cur­rent, but when it comes to matters of principle you stand firm as a rock."' 

Open 5-lOpm Tues. -Thurs. & 5-11pm Fri. & Sat. Free Admission to Heartland with Dinner 
222 S. MICHIGAN • SOUTH BEND • (219) 234-5200 
Course Offerings in the Department of Classics, Spring 1998 
Classical Antiquity 
CLAS 306 01 (HIST 306, 306A) ROMAN HISTORY Mazurek Sure, you've all heard of Julius Caesar-but what do you really know about the culture that produced him? This course traces the development of Roman civilization through the major political, religious, and social institutions of the Roman Republic and Empire. Major topics will include Rome's conquests in Europe and the Mediterranean, the careers of Julius Caesar and the emperor Augustus, and Rome's treatment of foreign peoples and insti­tutions, e.g. Christianity. 
CLAS 309 01 GREEK LITERATURE IN TRANSLATION Schlegel The literature of the Greeks has exercised a perennial attraction on the Western imagination, from the Romans down to our own times. Don't Jet it be 'all Greek to you'! Find out what some of the attraction is in this course, an introduction to the major literary and historical writings of ancient Greece, from the archaic period to Hellenistic times. 
CLAS 423 01 (ARHI 423 01, 523 01) GREEK ARCHITECTURE Rhodes We've all admired images of ancient Greek temples in travel brochures-but what did they mean in their context to the people building them? This course traces the development of Greek monumental architecture from the 8th to 2nd c. B.C. and treats themes like the relationship between landscape and religious architecture, symbolism and allusion through architectural order, and the humanization of temple divinities. 
CLAS 424 02 (ARHI 424 01, 524 01) ANCIENT ITALIAN ART AND ARCHITECTURE Rhodes You probably knew that 'the glory that was Rome' produced a rich artistic legacy. But do you understand its growth and development? And did you know Rome also had a few neighbors on the Italian peninsula? Find out about the art and architecture of the Roman Republic and Empire and of its Italian neighbors in this course, which isolates and traces the origins and development of monumental architecture, portraiture, painting and other gen­res from the first millennium B.C. to the fourth century A.D. 
CLAS 455 01 CLASSICAL EPIC (ENGL 413A 01) Vacca How does struggle create identity? Homer's Iliad and Odyssey and Virgil's Aeneid pose such perennial questions in a rich formal and thematic vocab­ulary that has influenced writers from Dante and Milton to the present day. Learn about the form, and grapple with the big questions of struggle and 
identity in this course, which alsoconsiders two contemporary novels that draw on such epic themes. Irish  
CLIR 301 01 THE IRISH IN THEIR OWN WORDS: READINGS IN IRISH LANGUAGE POETRY 1600-1900 MacQuillan  
You may be familiar with some Anglo-Irish literature, but did you know there are also literary productions in the native Irish language? some of them in this course, in particular those from 1600-1900, a period of crisis for the Irish and their cultural and linguistic well-being. will be read in English translation but students will gain some working familiarity with the Irish through facing translations.  Consider The texts  
Near Eastern Literature MELC 255 01 (GSC 255 01) WOMEN'S MEMORIES, WOMEN'S NARRATIVES Afsaruddin  

What do the women of Arab societies have to say for themselves? This course is the place to find out: it examines, in English translation, women's memoirs, autobiographies, and fiction to analyze the construction of the feminine self and identity in modern Arab societies. 
FOR INFORMATION ON THESE COURSES, AND ON COURSES IN LATIN, GREEK, ARABIC, AND IRISH, CONTACT THE DEPARTMENT OF CLASSICS (1-7195). 
-~--~~­
---~------­

COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
• WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
Outbreak of monkeypox sweeps the Congo 
GENEVA 
Ending smallpox vaccinations has led to the largest-ever reported outbreak of mon­keypox, a similar and potentially fatal dis­case, according to the World Health Organization. So far, at least 511 suspected cases of monkeypox have struck children younger than eight in a remote section of the Congo, and about 10 children have died, the WIIO reportf~d Tuesday. However, there are no signs the disease will spread to a wider area, said WIIO infectious disease expert David Heymann. The organization said there was no need now to reintroduce the small­pox vaccine. which is effective against mon­keypox but was phased out when smallpox was declared eradicated worldwide in 1980. The vaccine can be deadly to people infected with the AIDS virus, which is widespread in much of Africa. But 500,000 doses of the vac­cine are being kept in storage so new stocks can be produced if necessary, WHO said. Monkeypox causes fever, breathing problems and horrific blistering and scarring on the fan~ and hands. But it is not quite as conta­gious or deadly as smallpox -once known as the "spotted death." The 511 monkeypox easPs in Congo were registered between Feb. 1996 and Oct. 1997. 
Reno decides not to use independent counsel 
.,, ....... f ~ 

WASHINGTON· 
Attorney General Janet Reno declined Tuesday to seek an independent counsel investigation of telephone fund raising by President Clinton and Vice President Al Gore, saying their actions were outside the scope of federal election law. Under strong pressures for months from all sides. llnno said, "The decision was mine and it was based on the facts and the law. not pressure, poli­tics or any other factor." Hepublicans criticized her decision as wrong and perhaps affected by loyalty to the White House. Democrats called it correct and courageous. She also rejected a special prosecutor to investigate former Energy Secretary Hazel O'Leary. concluding that O'Leary was unaware that a contribu­tion to one of her favoritP charities may have b!~en solicited in return for her meeting Chinese businessmen. In her explanation, Reno said Clinton's fund-raising calls in Oct. 1994 were made from the White House pri­vate quarters, not the president's offices. "This places the calls outside the scope ... of (federal election law) which applies only to solicitations for hard-money contributions occurring within the federal workplace," she wrote. 
• AUSTRALIA 

Fire ravages suburbs of Sydney 
A thick blanker ofsmog from bushfires around Sydney obscured the harbor yesterday with rhe famous Sydney Opera House just visible. Bushfires .rlhave been burning our of control for some weeks with fires now threatening homes in the suburbs. Two firemen burned to death and two others were injured as the fires raged across four Australian states, fanned by hot winds and searing temperatures, emergency services said. 
ASSOCIATED PRESS 

SYDNEY 
Faced with walls of flames, firefight­ers gave up trying to put out the ram­paging forest fires around Sydney's southern suburbs Tuesday and instead focused on saving lives and property. 
The toll -two firefighters dead, 38 homes destroyed and a half-million acres scorched -raised fears that the blazes could be even more destructive than those that killed four people and razed more than 200 homes around Sydney in January 1994. 
"Quite clearly the protection of life and property will take precedence over suppression attempts," Rural Fire Services commissioner Phil Koperberg said. 
The air over Sydney was thick with smoke Tuesday, and weather forecast­ers said pollution monitors measuring soot were off the scale. More than 160 fires burned out of control across the southeastern state of New South Wales. 
On Sydney's southern fringe, more than 1,000 people were evacuated as fires moved toward their houses. 
Two firefighters died of burns while battling a blaze near Lithgow, a rural center across the Blue Mountains to Sydney's west, and two others suffered serious burns and smoke inhalation near Coonabarabran in the state's northwest. 
Evacuation plans were in place for Coonabarabran and the nearby town of Narrabri. 
"Clearly we have a grave situation," Koperberg said. "The conditions under which these firefighters are operating ... is beyond anything I have seen in 30 years." 
Urban sprawl extending out into woodlands on Sydney's fringe makes far-flung suburbs especially vulnerable to summer bush fires in this Southern Hemisphere nation. 
The city has been gripped by more than a week of hot, dry weather, often aggravated by high winds that can quickly whip a fire out of controL 
A strong southerly wind change 
caused temperatures to drop Tuesday, but also pushed fires toward new sub­urbs along the Georges River. Australian Broadcasting Corp. radio reported at least 38 houses were destroyed in the suburb of Menai. 
A nuclear power plant used for med­ical and scientific research at nearby Lucas Heights, on Sydney's southern fringe, was closed down as fires raged around its perimeter. However, officials said the plant was not in danger. 
The Rural Fire Service has called the situation worse than the summer of 1993-94, when blazes destroyed more than 1. 9 million acres of forests, and reached the Sydney suburbs. 
More than 1,500 firefighters, includ­ing recruits brought from neighboring states, were battling the blazes, with additional assistance from the army. 
The National Parks and Wildlife Service advised that national parks in and around Sydney, the Blue Mountains and the central coast were closed until further notice because of the extreme fire danger. 

• RUSSIA 





Coal mine explosion traps 67 workers 
AsSOCIATED PRESS the mine when the methane exploded early Tuesday morn­ing. They were hospitalized with gas poisoning. MOSCOW The blast obliterated the shaft in the Zyryanovskaya mine, 
Trapped methane gas exploded in a deep shaft of a in the Kuzbass region of southern Siberia. Siberian coal mine Tuesday, and searchers said they had lit­Rescue teams were sent from Moscow to Novokuznetsk, tle hope of finding any of 67 miners alive. 1,850 miles southeast of the capital and 300 
Rescue workers counted 54 bodies in the miles north of the Mongolian border. 
S&P 500: 

Composite 
shaft by late Tuesday, while 13 other min­Russia's mining industry has been
971.68 Volume: 
'NATURE IS LIKE THAT,
-3.10 691,734,160 ers remained unaccounted for, Col. Yuri plagued by deteriorating safety and working Krashkin of the Ministry of Emergency AND WE OFfEN CAN-conditions, due largely to a lack of funds. 
BIGGEST PERCENTAGE GAINERS 

Situations said. Prior to Tuesday's explosion, accidents in 
COMPANY T!CKFR % rHANGt S GAJN, PHICT NOT COPE WITH IT.' 
Authorities said most of the victims died Hussia killed 191 miners so far this year,
Hl(lll ff.Cill\:Ol<>tiY VIFl. 125.30 +6.50 11.688 l:"KI~E l'lli\RM·UTS ISKPU !B.33 +1.25 2.75· ,\M,\fULLO BIOSCI£ AMAR <2.86 +1.50 5.00 
of burns or inhalation of poison gases, Vladimir Rossikhin, the chief safety inspec­
MERITRU5T F5B MER I 3<.72 +17.78 69.00 
UI.I"RAFEM INC UFEM :H.46 + \.2N 5.00 although the blast also caused cave-ins. BOR/S YELTSIN tor of the Hussian Coal Miners' Union, told The explosion -1,080 feet below the the Interfax news agency. surface ~ happened so quickly that the President Boris Yeltsin, on a state visit to
BIGGEST PERCENTAGE LOSERS 

SATl RESEARCH :OCRCI 6.!.51 -11.75 6.75 miners had no time to don emergency breathing gear, NTV Sweden, promised to assist the miners' families. CAIH.ETRON SYSTEM C5 32.35 ·7.50 15.69 
1\'ETSMART -WTS A NTSTW 32.\4 -1.13 2.38 television reported. "Nature is like that, and we often cannot cope with it," he 
C<.I!\(~{)IU11A PA-ADI{ CPLNY 31.81 -0.88 1.88 
MACIH1CIIEM-\VT AA MCIIMM 30.43 ·0.88 2.00 Six miners had left the shaft and were on their way out of said. 


VIEWPOINT 
page 6 
THE OBSERVER 
NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY'S OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1997-98 General Board 
Edicor-in-Chief Brad Prendergasr Managing Edicor Business Manager Jamie Heisler Tom Roland Assistant Managing Editor 
Dan Cichalski News Editor ............................ Hearher Cocks Advenising Manager.............................. Jed Peters Viewpoinc Edicor ...................... Kelly Brooks Ad Design Manager..................... Jennifer Breslow Spores Edicor ................................ Mike Day Production Manager.........................Mark DeBoy Accent Editor.......................... Joey Crawford Systems Manager ............ Michael Brouillet Saint Mary's Edicor ....................... Lori Allen Controller.... .. ......................... Kyle Carlin Photo Editor .............. Katie Kroener 
The Observer is rhe independem newspaper published by the studems of the University of Notre Dame duLac and Saine Mary's CoiJege. Ir does nor necessarily reflecr rhe policies of rhe adminisrrarion ofeither institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned edirorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Ediror-in-Chief. Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Ediror, Sports Editor, Accem Editor, Saint Mary's Editor, Pharo Editor, and Associate News Editor. Commemaries, letters and Inside Columns presem the views of the authors, and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's communi()' and ro all readers. The free expression of varying opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Observer Phone·Lines 
Edicor-in-Chief  631-4542  Business Office  631-5313  
Managing Ediror  631-4541  Advercising  631-6900/8840  
News/Phoco  631-5323  Syscems  631-8839  
Spores  63 I -4 543  Office Manager  631-7471  
Accent/Saint Mary's  631-4540  Fax  631-6927  
Day Editor/Viewpoint  631-5303  Viewpoinc E-Mail  Viewpoint. I @nd.edu  
General Information  631-7471  Ad E-Mail  observer@darwin.cc.nd.edu  

• AWAKENINGS 

Clinton: Punt, Pass or Climate Control? 
Leaders from 150 countries are gath­ered in Kyoto, Japan, this week tore­negotiate the 1992 Climate Change Treaty, an international accord aimed at limiting the spread of global warming. Vice President Gore, America's most out­spoken and well-versed politician on issues relating to the environment, has 

J.P. 

Cooney 

been sent there by President Clinton to advocate a non-starter policy stance that panders too heavily to business interests and disparages the expressed opinion of a majority of Americans. 
The Clinton approach entails reducing emissions to the 1990 level by 2012. The proposal was accompanied by an announcement earlier this week that the 
U.S. will contemplate allowing for differ­entiation in target levels among coun­tries, crippling an already feeble plan. In a speech on Oct. 22, Clinton stated that "we will embrace flexible mechanisms for meeting these limits." Translation: any agreement on emission standards made in Kyoto is for show and can be easily gotten out of. 
Clinton's anemic recommendations are further accompanied by a host of tax and regulatory incentives to encourage pri­vate investment in, and a commitment to, emission reduction. These incentives will do little good without stricter targets and a meaningful enforcement mecha­nism, devices which the U.S. refuses to institute voluntarily and which certainly will not arise from any agreement made in Kyoto. 
This is the case despite public opinion favorable to global climate control. The 
• DOONESBURY 
/1t-YJ?e.A/?R.IV~SON me HIU. 
GootlMORN~ IAPI&SANI? 6tWTZ£Mf3N, IM CONGR&S5­M4N a.Yt?& MONTANA,. 
delegate president who governs accord­ing to public opinion polls has finally managed to ignore one -unfortunately this one would actually result in good policy. A recent Newsweek poll indicates that 82 percent of Americans would pay an additional $50 for an energy-efficient appliance; 74 percent would purchase a car with healthier fuel economy; and 51 percent would tolerate a 12 cent hike in gas prices (gas prices which, incidental­ly, are currently the least expensive in the world). 
Granted, the same poll also reports that just over one-fifth of Americans worry seriously about global climate control, but much of that has to do with the issue's diminished news coverage and declined visibility (at least before Kyoto). Besides, a one-year-old poll released by a public interest group reports that while only around 30 per­cent found the issue to be extremely pressing, over 70 percent are markedly concerned, genuinely opening a window for policy change. Overall, it seems that Americans are prepared and willing to pay a modest price for the long-run ben­efits their kids will experience as a result of climate control. 
The Clinton Administration is dropping the ball; opportunities like this do not come along every day. Much of Americans' passivity to modest costs for climate control probably has to do with the strength of the economy and the existence of no pressing predicament in the foreseeable future. Nevertheless, Clinton should seize the moment and pursue a more activist and aggressive policy. Constantly in reelection mode (need be or not), he is obviously too scared of how big business will react. 
Admittedly, Clinton faces a difficult challenge in dealing with global climate control. Unilateral emission reduction would result in some short-run losers. Haphazard action could spoil America's economic growth rate and erode our international competitiveness. However, aggressive action within a market system that will simultaneously reduce global 
Wednesday, December 3, 1997 
warming and enhance economic prospects is possi­ble. It requires a true commitment to a plan often referred to but rarely investigated intensely. 
The market­based solution 

· would allot credits to industries which emit greenhouse gasses. Each year, a certain number of credits would be charged to compa­nies for emitting these gases. Over time, the amount charged would increase while the number of credits allotted would decline. Companies which do not spend their credits in a given year may sell them to other companies who need to exceed their allotment. The price of these credits would go unregulated by the government, creating a competitive market for them. Companies which exceed their allotted credits for a given year, and which are unable to purchase more to compensate, would be heavily penalized through taxes and fines. Such a system would give companies a tangible incentive to reduce their emis­sion levels while developing innovations to make their respective products and industries more efficient. The govern­ment could set an aggressive time-table for emission reduction; out of necessity, companies would find a cost-effective way to adhere to it. Some eosts would be pushed over to the consumer, but Americans have expressed a willingness to bear modest ones. The Clinton Administration has pursued similar plans with notable success in the area of environmental pollution and dumping. While such a system basically amounts to allowing companies to pay to pollute, 
GARRY TRUDEAU 
,.SINC/3 I FIR§T8URSTIN70 NATIONAL-PROM!NtWC£AS A 1/fAI?INGA!<Ofl7l3CTCFCAU­
fO!?NIA'5 P!<Off:J51710N 209 
BANNINGAFF!f?M4TIVPACTION/ 

making many of my environmentalist friends cringe, it is a realistic model through which a combative policy can be pursued. Such a system in effect encour­ages positive behavior over a period of time, and allows the private sector to develop its own solutions to the problem within a specified time limit. It certainly beats our current global warming policy, which amounts to much less than a hill­of-beans. 
Politicians arc scared to death by the potential costs of activist environmental policy. However, the political and eco­nomic climate is ripe for action, and the policy tools to induce cost-effective changes are available. The ball is in Clinton's court to pick up and run with -our nation's childnm can only hop!) hfl is brave enough to do so. 
J.P. Cooney is a junior economics and government major. His column appears every other Wednesday. He can be reached at Joseph.P.Cooney.6@nd.edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
• GUOTE OF THE DAY 
"I try not to let my schooling get in the way of my education." 
-Mark Twain 



VIEWPOINT
Wednesday, December 3, 1997 page 7 
• Goo 'N liFE 
Bear Your 
Cross if You Want to Rise 
"There can be no resurrection without the Cross." 
While decidedly a Christian view in a religious sense, this statement can be applied to almost every facet of life. "Out of hard work comes success" is one interpretation. Another might be, "Suffering is good for the soul." 

Julie Ferraro 

And we all do suffer. Perhaps not from cancer, asthma or even AIDS, but there are events in each human being's life that cause pain. It might be as major as a ear accident or a shattered marriage/relationship, or as minor as a broken television set when we're ready to watch a favorite sitcom. Any such occurrence propels us through the emo­tions of annoyance, anger. disappoint­ment, defeat. 
We don't have to be defeated, though. Christ wasn't. When all seemed bleak­est, He was labeled a failure and unjustly put to death. He rose from the dead, however. giving us the ultimate hope: there is more to life than just "life." 
Christians are urged to "carry the cross." The British might put it "keep­ing a stilT upper lip." There are numer­ous' ways to express the Ideal that we should make tbe best of any situation, good or bad. 
This could be applied to the forthcom­ing exams. When registering for a course, students understand that their knowledge will be tested at the end of tlw semester. Some try to ignore the fact. possibly hoping in the secret recess­es of their hearts that the world will end before finals week. It makes more sense not to procrastinate, to put forth an effort and keep up with one's studies. Tlwre may still be a stomach-full of stress as the test date approaches. but the overwhelming desperation may be avoided. 
Other burdens may weigh heavily on young shoulders. Parents may expect their offspring to achieve and achieve and achieve. The freedom to explore new forms of expression -parties, rela­tionships, drinking and so forth-may conflict with upbringing that taught right from wrong. While it may be painful to make an erroneous decision (the morn­ing hangover, a damaged friendship), it is possible to "rise" again, to learn from the mistake. 
A big part of this is faith. Jesus had faith in the Father that His death would not be in vain. Since most of the day to day suffering encountered here is not life-threatening, it should be easier to nurture this kind of faith. No matter what happens, there is a chance to learn, to grow, to become a better person. 
The other part is love. If we are willing to "live and learn," it means others should be allowed to do the same. We may not agree with their choices, their methods or their attitudes. but God cre­ated each one of us as individuals, and we all travel unique paths through life. 
All in all. the "cross" is not that bad, if we remember that we all have the chance to "rise." 
Julie Ferraro is a local administrative assistant. Her column appears every other Wednesday. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necesarily those of The Observer. 
• COLUMN OF REASON 


School of Architecture Remembers Brian Crumlish 
Editor's note-The following is a tribute Pakistan, after which they were commis­to Professor Brian Crumlish written by sioned to design several of the new universi­Professor Norman Crowe ofthe School of ty's first buildings. They also won the com­Architecture. petition and commission for the expansion of 
the College of Architecture complex at Ball 
Professor Brian Crumlish of the School of State University, and an honorable mention Architecture died on Thanksgiving Day of a for their design for University College in heart attack at his home in South Bend at Dublin, Ireland. ­the age of 69. He joined the Notre Dame Professor Crumlish is known in the School faculty in 1964 and taught both on the Notre of Architecture for his humor and for his Dame campus and in the great love of the craft: the craft of teaching,­School of Architecture's the craft of drawing, and the craft of wood Rome Program. He was the construction. He carefully restored old vio­recipient of a Fulbright lins, making them new again, and played scholarship to Italy early in chamber music on them with his friends at his teaching career, and he his home on Riverside Drive. His church maintained an active archi­designs were typically enriched by complex tectural practice while geometric timber truss work, combining his teaching at Notre Dame. He love of wood structure with his engineering was the designer of a signif­background which began with an advance icant number of works of degree in architectural technology from the architecture in the South University of Illinois. Recently, he engi­Bend area, including three I1eered the dismantling, moving and re­churches-St. Pius X in Granger, Queen of assembly of a mortise-and-tenon timber, Peace and the Timberland Bible Church, post-and-beam structured Greek Revival both in South Bend. Crumlish formed a farm house from the 1850s. The project partnership with his colleague Professor restored the original interiors and he Donald Sporleder, and later joined his son designed new dependencies to match the Brendan Crumlish to form the firm of historic original style and spirit. When his Crumlish and Crumlish Architects. During students of recent years at Notre Dame think his career, Crumlish received numerous of him, they will likely recall his infectious design awards including an honorable men­love of free-hand drawing-a craft he was tion for his design of the Vietnam Memorial teaching freshman architecture students this in Washington, D.C., and a national award semester. for his design of the baptismal font at St. A memorial mass will be held today, Pius X in Granger. He and Professor Wednesday, Dec. 3, at 1 p.m. in Morrissey Sporleder won an international competition Hall Chapel, and a memorial service will be and executed the commission for the plan of held Dec. 11 at 2 p.m. at Pius X. a new university in the former West 
• lETIER TO THE EDITOR 
He s a True Notre Dame Man 
Living in Pennsylvania, I have had the opportunity to see many outstanding athletes in my short 25-year life, such as Ricky Watters, Michael Owens, Major Harris, and Rocket Ismail, just to name a few. However in December of 1992, I had the pleasure of watching the greatest high school football player I have ever seen lead his team to the Pennsylvania AAA championship. He was truly a man among boys. Joe Paterno wanted him. Bobby Bowden wanted him. Craig Erickson wanted him. He chose Notre Dame. 
Early on he felt the pressure of being a Notre Dame quarterback when Beano Cook pro­claimed he would win at least two Heisman Trophies, and he would become the greatest of all Irish quarterbacks. He also received praise from Lou Holtz, something generally reserved for players who have already graduated. He was slated to start as a true fresh­man until an injury ended that. We never heard him complain or ask for pity. He chose honor. 
In 1994, the pressure mounted with a stellar opening performance against 
Northwestern. But the Michigan heartbreak, followed by the decline of a season brought 
the blame. It would have been easy for him to blast out at his antagonists and blame other 
problems the team was having. He didn't. He chose silence. Above himself, he chose the 
team. 
1995 brought renewed hope, but it was dashed early by an upstart Northwestern squad. Once again the blame was put on his shoulders. This year the team would not fold, and under his leadership fought its way back into Bowl contention. However, Navy would be his own personal heartbreak. A broken arm would end his season. This time he didn't choose silence. He was there, cheering his teammates and his back-up, Thomas Krug, onto victory against Air Force, and then in a hard fought loss to Florida State in the Orange Bowl. Again, he chose his team. He chose Notre Dame. 
1996 was dashed by Ohio State and capped with the overtime loss to Southern Cal. He could have left then. Lou was ending his tenure. He could have given up but he, more than any of us fans could ever possibly imagine, wanted to excel. Not for himself, but for his team, for Notre Dame, and for us! He chose to stay. He chose Notre Dame. 
We all know the 1997 story thus far. He has felt the sting of boos from those for whom he so desperately wanted to be great. He could blame it on a new coaching staff, or any other number of things, but I know he won't. 
He would never dishonor his school and the team he loves. So when the 1997 version of 
the Fighting Irish leave the field for the last time, take a moment to thank Ron Powlus for 
the honor he has brought to Our Lady. No one ever wanted to live up to those expectations 
more than he did. No one deserved it more than he. I could defend Ron with statistics, and 
all his records, or how he has he has helped turn this season around, but I won't. There is 
more to Ron Powlus than numbers. So he didn't win two Heismans, and may not be con­
sidered the greatest Irish player ever, but I will remember all the things many so-called 
Irish fans have forgotten. Above all, he chose Notre Dame, and I thank him for it. 
My family and I were in South Bend for Ron's final home game against West Virginia. I 
was so happy that his last pass in Notre Dame Stadium was a game-winning touchdown. 
After the game, I waited outside the stadium to give a final salute to our boys. When Ron 
left the gate, he was mobbed by many autograph seekers. I wanted to push my way in 
there and give him my thanks. 
Then I thought about it. Throughout his whole college career, he has been surrounded 
by the the fans, press, the critics, the pressure, and too much undeserved blame. I just 
watched and smiled. Saturday was Ron Powlus' day. 
He wouldn't let the Irish lose. My mother and I began walking away when we saw Ron's 
mother. My mom walked right up to her and told her how outstanding Ron is. Then I told 
her we were from Pennsylvania, and I asked her to tell Ron thanks for all he has given to 
Notre Dame. She looked so happy. She should be, her son is the kind of young man that 
has made Notre Dame what it is. 
Thank you, Ron Powlus. 
Joseph Mulvihill December I, 1997 
• lETTER TO THE EDITOR 
Band 

Deserves 
Fluff-Free 
Respect 
F
or many seniors, the last home game as a student is one of the fond memories they will relive as alumni. For senior band members, this performance is the culmination of eight or more years in band. It is the result of a season of hard work, beginning with three-a­day practices in the August heat, and continuing through cold November evenings. The final home game of the season stands as the last opportunity for these seniors to represent this university in uniform at the stadium. As a senior band member, I was dismayed and disheartened with the overly raucous senior section during their marshmallow fight. For the past two years, the band's halftime performance has 

been overshadowed by the newest "tradition" to overtake the seniors. It is unfortunate that our fellow classmates failed to recognize the impor­tance of these moments for the 7 4 seniors who took the field for the last time against West Virginia. The band of the Fighting Irish is one of the old­est traditions at a university where tradition is one of its most popular and enduring features. The band is 152 years old -42 years older than our football team. For the juniors, sophomores, and freshmen who will determine whether or not this marshmal­low "tradition" will continue to interfere with the band's per­formance, I ask that you con­sider how it would feel to have a presentation (for which you prepared three weeks) inter­rupted by a marshmallow fight taking place in your audience. 
Perhaps you will realize that there are some students who would like to watch the band. Perhaps you will realize that parents of band members would love to sit where you do so that they could actually see their son or daughter perform for the last time. Perhaps you will decide to wait until after the band plays the greatest of all fight songs to continue your "tradition." 
Diane Meyers 
Senior, Breen-Phillips Hall 
December I, 1997 

page 8 Wednesday, December 3, 1997





ACCENT 

By ANNE KEARNS Saint Mary's Accent Writer 
You can go there to test your running and kicking skills, or to measure your agility and flexibility. You can learn about sports medicine or the evolution of sports media coverage. You can do all of this and more at the College Football Hall of Fame along with honoring the coaches and the athletes who have brought so much to the sport. And what better place to have a College Football Hall of Fame than South Bend, Ind.? 
The idea for the College Football Hall of Fame dates back to the late 1940s when the National Football Foundation began holding a series of charity balls in order to finance building costs for the hall. After 20 years of sponsoring these events, the National Charity Association began to pressure the Football Foundation to start the construction. Initially, the site was Rutgers Universit." where the first intercollegiate football match took place between Rutgers and Princeton. The last site was King's Island in Cincinnati, Ohio. 
Although it was thought that building the Hall of Fame near an amusement park would result in it being more successful. it did not work out this way. The National Football Foundation decided to close the hall at King's Island and build a new one in a community that would be willing to finance and operate it. After bids from several major cities such as Atlanta and Houston, South Bend was chosen. The choice was based on the guarantee from former Mayor Kernan to the Football Foundation that the South Bend community would fully support ti1e hall. 
Despite having South Bend's support. the Hall of Fame does much on its own to promote itself. It is an innovative product complete with interactive displays, life-sized exhibits. a stadium theatre, and a Hall of Champions. 
Upon entering the hall, you are greeted by the "Pursuit of a Dream" sculpture.  l  
This is  a three-story multi-media sculpture depicting a player's journey to  s  
becoming a college football player.  It includes videos of old games, pep talks  
from coaches. and fight songs from his past schools.  a  
A great place to start your tour is at the Hall's Stadium Theatre.  This is a 360  1  
degree theatre with seven screens that continuously flash different scenes show­ e  
ing the thrills and spirit of college football including everything from great plays  F  
to tragic upsets. to the cheerleaders and the band.  
There's also  a video explaining the responsibilities, joys, and heartaches  
involved with being a coach.  This 12-minute video is located in a replica of a  i  
locker room.  c  
As a part of the interactive displays, the Hall offers visitors a chance  

to become a sportscaster in a simulated press box known as ~----­"You Call the Play." The visitor can choose the play and game. and then record his own play by play call. 
Other interactive displays include a prac­tice field where you can test your run­ning. kicking, and passing skills. Also, there's a fitness room where you can see if you have the skills needed to be a football player. such as flexibil­ity, balance, agility, strength, and reaction time. There's also an entire room dedicated to the festiv­ities surrounding the game. Here the fans, the cheerleaders. and the 
marching bands are honored. 
The Hall of Fame also has life-sized exhibits depicting various aspects of the sports. and how it has evolved over the years. This includes the changing media coverage from print to radio to television, as well as the evolution of equipment. This display por­trays the old uniforms and how these changed over time into modern protective gear. 
Another way visitors get a chance to really see what they want is through the hall's various touch-screen monitors. These allow the visitor to choose what specific areas they want to learn about. Touch-screen monitors, for example show highlights of the founders t of college football in the Hall of Champions to 1939. and of modern ~ athletes and coaches in the Hall of Champions 1940 to present. The l Pantheon, which honors recipients of the 10 individual football awards. including the Heisman trophy, contains a Pantheon 
The faces of the college football greats are enshrined in this passageway in South Bend's own College Football Hall of Fame. 
.................. to take her out to···~uuJLu:a abQufhis money. Her 
that Valerie's. Of course, Noah, ~o she·gets to make use of the cash. .. . Mr Donna and Noah kiss on the deck. Donna goes ln~ld~to tmd David waiting in the dark. Davidhas 
•• coin~ to ac~ept Donna's offer to stay, but wishes he hadn't seen the kiss . . . Valerie tells David that Noah paid off the loan~ David yells at Noah and finds out that Noah has bought the After Dark so David will have no more worries. David tells Noah to run the dub himself and hands him the keys. Noah tells Donna he was · afraid his money would ruin everything. No, l think that would be your roaming lips that ruined every· thing. 
TONIGHT: A sexy woman named Emma walks into th~ Beverly Beat to meet Brandon. The doctor at the clinic makes Kelly uncomfortable with his massage 
.H,a.tgJ:ov.<:t•• ·technique. Valerie starts to work at the After Dark 
•· with Noah, which upsets Donna; AccordingJo 
·•· Donna, working with an ex-girlfriend is ''personal. notbusiness." 
Wednesday, December 3, 1997 ACCENT page 9 ­
lighlight Theatre with touch-screen monitors so that the visitors can ee a video exhibit of the players of their choosing. 
Other displays include memorabilia from the five major bowl games s well as mementoes from each NCAA and NAIA division champion. 'he Hall of Fame is continuing to grow with more events and more xhibits. Just recently, the Hall unveiled its latest exhibit, "Get Your rograms!" which features game programs from the early days of col­~ge football to present day programs. 
Not only does the Hall of Fame give South Bend a great museum, but also actively participates in the community, particularly through edu­tional programs. Currently, members of the hall staff, in collabora­tion with area educators have developed a program thatr-----integrates specific curriculum with field trips to the hall. The program is designed from grades six to nine, and covers areas such as geography, health, history, and math. The students may study how football safety equip­ment has changed over the years, or the locations of 
certain universities. 
The Hall of Fame has 
also become an educa­
tional tool in the Notre 
Dame community. One 
particular class, Material 
Culture in America, visits 
the Hall each year to study 
how material culture is 
conveyed through such 
things as noise and interactive One of the interactive displays challenges Hall of Fame visitors to test their passing skills on a replicadisplays. Jerry Barca, a junior at football field. Notre Dame, and amember of this class believes that the hall, "does a great job in capturing college football." He was especially impressed with the recogni­tion of outstanding student-athletes and the hall's commitment to honoring these men for accomplishments nade off the playing field. 
Another way in which the Football Hall of Fame works with the Notre )arne community is through an internship program. Currently, three ;eniors are interning in conjunction with the public relations aspect of he Hall. One senior, Josh Lefebvre, will spend his senior year drafting Jress releases of new exhibits, and helping to plan events. Josh says of 
experience, "It has been wonderful not only in the public relations 
ct, but in the sports marketing field as well." Overall, the Hall of 
ame strives to bring the average person, "closer to the game." 
Charlie. freaks.on ""''"'"'""" his cancer, butm~kes Claudia gets very J,tpset 
from some pamphlet she ture Charlie on his disease. Charlie tells Claudia she is worse by reminding him tha 
Bailey learns of Charlie's ··"····.·.·.....,.,.,,.,...,.,. give advice based on the te(~hrlitt'ue.f!ih$ Alcoholics Anonymous. Charlie to take it one tells Bailey to sh:ut up ue~;:a1.nm clue about wliat cancer is 
page 10 The Observer· SPORTS Wednesday, December 3, 1997 
• COLLEGE BASKETBAll
-
Davis leads No. I 0 low-a to victory over Drake, 90-60 
Associated Press 
IOWA CITY 
Freshman Ricky Davis was 1 0-of-11 from the field and scored 26 points in his first start Tuesday night to lead No. 10 Iowa to a 90-60 victory over Drake. 
Ryan Bowen, who had 20 points and a career-high 19 rebounds in last Saturday's win over Long Island University, scored 13 points and grabbed 13 boards for Iowa (4-0). Kent McCausland added 15 points for the Haw keyes. 
Matt Woodley scored 20 points and Joey Gaw had 11 for Drake (2-3), which lost to the Hawkeyes for the 19th straight time. Drake has not won in Iowa City since 1968. 
Davis, who had been backing up senior Darryl Moore, had a hot hand from the start for Iowa, which failed to break the 1 00-point mark for the first time in four games. · 
His 18 points on 7-of-8 shooting in the first 20 minutes helped Iowa to a 52-28 halftime lead and the Hawkeyes didn't let up. Davis had been averaging 17 points -second-best on the team ­and he repeatedly beat defenders with quick moves to the basket. He also showed he could score from the outside, hitting a 3-pointer near the top of the key that gave the Hawkeyes a 77-45 lead with 10:39 to play. 
The smaller Bulldogs were outre­bounded 43-22 and hit shot just 37 per­cent, compared to 59 percent for Iowa. 
Xavier 88, Central Michigan 54 
CINCINNATI 
Ninth-ranked Xavier came out cold, flat and out of sync Tuesday night, but Lenny Brown scored a season-high 18 points and the Musketeers haltingly pulled away to an 88-54 victory over Central Michigan. 
Xavier (4-0), playing for the first time in a week, forced 28 turnovers and had four players score in double figures as it slowly ground down overmatched Central Michigan (1-4 ). 
The Musketeers have had a different leading scorer in each of their four games, and at least four players have reached double figures in each. Dan Schell led Central Michigan with 11 points. 
Shooting was the problem early as Xavier missed nine of its first 11 shots against Central Michigan's man-to-man defense. Once the shots started falling, Xavier got into its full-court pressure defense, forced turnovers and took con­trol. 
A blocked shot and two turnovers set up a seven-point spurt that put Xavier ahead to stay, 14-9, eight minutes into the game. T.J. Johnson hit four consecu­tive free throws and Gary Lumpkin made Xavier's first 3-pointer after five misses as the Musketeers opened a 40­20 lead late in the half. 
Brown scored nine points in a 17-6 spurt that pushed the lead to 73-33 mid­way through the second half. 
Central Michigan tried to slow the pace with the tight man-to-man defense, running down the shot clock when it got the ball and fouling a lot. The fouls took their toll as starters Curtis Gilleylen and Jon Borovich and backup Aaron Brown picked up their fourth fouls less than six minutes into the second half. All three ended up fouling out. 

Utah 64, Providence 58 
CHICAGO 
Hanno Mottola scored 17 points, including a three-point play to start a pivotal 7-0 second-half run, as No. 11 Utah passed its first test of the season by beating Providence 64-58 Tuesday night. 
It was the opener of the two-day Great Eight, an event featuring six of the teams that reached the final eight of last season's NCAA tournament. 
Utah won its first five games by an average of 27.6 points but had trouble pulling away from the young and under­sized-but scrappy-Friars (2-2). 
Ben Perkins scored 15 points and his 3-pointer cut Utah's lead to 45-44 with 9 1/2 minutes to go. The Friars trailed 4 7­45 when Mottola grabbed a rebound, made a short jumper, was fouled by Llewellyn Cole and hit the free throw. The Utes followed with four more foul shots to take a 54-45 lead. 
Providence failed to make a basket for 5 1/2 minutes after Perkins' 3-pointer but remained close because Utah also struggled offensively. 
The Utes took a 57-49 lead on David Jackson's 3-pointer with 3:51 left. After Perkins made a free throw, Mottola hit a 15-footjumper for a 59-50 lead. 
Mottola, a native of Finland, went 7­for-12 from the field. He is shooting 64 percent this season and 77 percent over the last three games. 
The 6-foot-10 forward added nine rebounds, while 6-11 Doleac and 6-9 Alex Jensen pulled down eight each as Utah outrebounded Providence 43-17. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day clas­sifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 3 cents per character per day. including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
Can you help?  1,2 & 3 BDRM HOMES.GILLIS  1987 Buick Century, V6, Automatic,  I do now  no pressure or anything...  
NOTICES  LOST *CAMERA• Kodak Cameo, probably around  PROPERTIES.  4 door, power windows, seats, & locks. One owner, reliable, great  A SECRET CODED MESSAGE  The best of the Quad Cities:  
fall break-> maybe at West  272-6551  car. $2,400/best offer. Call now  FOR THE PANTHER:  10) "Hey, Bryan, your window's not  
Craft Tool & Mold, located in Airport  Quad Field during IH football?!?  631-6436  we need to change our message  as foggy anymore."  
Ind. Park, has room to store 20-25  ·PLEASE• call Nicole @ 0565 w/  6 BDRM HOME NEXT FALL.272­ 
 (stop)  "I've been holding my breath  
vehicles over the holiday recess­for a donation. All donations will then be given to the Hope Rescue Mission.  any clues. WANTED  6551 I L..I__F_O_R_S_A_L_E_  ____.I  89 Honda Civic Dx,V.Ciean,New I''" ;;=:"  it must include the following phras­es:{stop} impending apocalypse {stop} angel of death (stop} arrmageddon {stop)  for the past 5 miles." 9) "What's wrong with the tape?" "Are you sure it's in all the way?" B) "I can't believe I have to wear a scarf in my own car!"  
Call233-7157.  WALK TO CAMPUS  Near Campus-1338 Miner St.  ·  and remember, have a nice day  7) "You drink the first 3/4 and I'll  
2-5 BEDROOM HOMES  2 BR Enclosed Front Porch. New  000 Looking for a unique gift?  {stop}  drink the last 1/4."  
000 THE COPY SHOP 000  $195/PERSON  Roof, Siding & Carpet.  Bring in your favorite pictures  by the way {stop}  "How about if you drink the first  
LaFortune Student Center  232-2595  Central Air & Full Basement  and we'll create a personalized  we are going into MOO withdraw!  1/4 and I'll drink the last 3/4"  
Store Hours  $44,900 1-800-382-2952  COLOR COPY CALENDAR!!!  {stop}  6) "Yeah my parents didn't have  
Mon.-Thur.: 7:30 a.m.-Midnight  BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY  THE COPY SHOP  EOT  sex for a decade."  
Fri.: 7:30 a.m.-7:00p.m.  2192917153  2 Extra-Long Twin Bed/Box Spring  LaFortune Student Center  "Now that's too much informa­ 
Sat.: Noon-6:00p.m.  & Frame Sets-$125.00 each.  tion."  
Sun.: Noon-Midnight  NICE HOMES FOR NEXT SEMES­ Small Square Restaurant Table,  just in case you wanted to know  000 THE COPY SHOP 000  5) "Did you talk to your relatives?"  
(closed home football Sat.'s)  TER OR NEXT SCHOOL YEAR  Brown -$20.00. Large Artificial  I have a test today and I don't want  LaFortune Student Center  "Yeah, but some of them  
Phone 631-COPY  277-3097  Christmas Tree-$40.00. Call 631­ to take it  ~ High-Speed Copies  wouldn't pry themselves away from  
1354 or 243-0260.  vCanon Color Laser Copies ·  the table to talk to me."  
GREAT RESUMES! Only 4 mi.  Furn Rm $325/mo incl utilities,  CATERING-CALL FAZOLI'S  -./ Digital Color Printing  "Who, Mom and Dad?"  
from ND campus on U.S. 31/33.  washer/dryer. Privacy!  Karen 284­ Brand New Computers -200M Hz,  277-4008  ~ Binding & Laminating  4) "I'm still not tired ..." (who would  
Call (616)684-4633.  6257 (day) 273-4517 (eve)  32MB RAM, 33.6k modem, 1.6GB  ~Public Fax Service 631-FAX1  be with four people in a waterbed)  
hard drive, 20X CD-ROM, Sound  Would you like a tossed salad  Phone 631-COPY  3) "There are nice Notre Dame girls  
Spring Break '98  Turtle Creek-2 bedroom  Card, 60W speakers, 14" monitor.  today??????  from the South."  
Cancun, Jamaica, Bahamas, &  Sublet Jan-May  $1250 + shipping. Call Julie at  andrei rocks  "Yeah, they're the smart ones  
Florida. Group Discounts & Free  Free furniture/bed  (970)221-0494.  Hey  that got out."  
Drink Parties! Sell Trips, Earn Cash  Call T J 243-5327  Sweet  Pittsburgh Train tix avail-Sat after  2) "Hey, baby, what's your sign?"  
& Go Freel  MAC Performa 6214: CO-Rom,  Daisy!  finals-perks bring up to five big  "Try again, Bob .. "  
1-800-234-7007  ROOMS IN PRIVATE HOME FOR  Ethernet, & printer. $750 obo.  bags Pat 1651  1) "Salute the buffalo!"  
www.endlesssummertours.com  FOOTBALL WEEKENDS AND  X3735  the drum will be done in t minus 3  
ILOST & FOUND I  OTHER ND-SMC EVENTS. VERY CLOSE TO CAMPUS -5 MIN. DRIVE OR 15-20 MIN. WALK.  Seized Cars from $175. Porsches, Cadillacs, Chevys, BMW's,  days calc tests make my week more diffi­ This is not Disney. Japanese Animation Thurs-DBART 141 -7:30  The best of the Quad Cities, part II, tomorrow ..  
243-0658.  Corvettes. Also Jeeps, 4WD's. Your  cult then under regular circum­ Sex can wait.  
LOST: PAIR OF BROWN  Area. Toll Free  stances  I don't know if I can live up to all the  
LEATHER GLOVES ON NOV. 19.  6 BDRM HOME NEXT FALL.272­ 1-800-218-9000 Ext. A-for current  hype from yesterday, but here  Sex can wait for John Roland's Bob  
CALL NICK 246-1146.  6551  listings.  I did not know how to do dual basis  goes...  Kroener... P.J.  

. ~ _-........ " -t --_.. _,_ . t. 

---------------~--------------~--~--------­
Wednesday, December 3, 1997 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 11 

-
saferide A PROGRAM THAT WAS STARTED LAST YEAR AS PILOT, IS NOW A RELIABLE SERVICE THAT OPERATES EVERY FRIDAY AND SATURDAY EVENING FROM 10PM TO 3AM. SAFERIDE WILL PICK YOU UP OFF-CAMPUS & TAKE YOU HOME, FREE. 631-9888 
IN AN EFFORT TO INCREASE STUDENT SUPPORT FOR WOMEN'S \VOtnens soccer ~1~i:\~~~~=~I~~~~~TN~W~~~~6~~~0~l~~g¥6E~~~.Go IRisH, . h 
TO WELCOME A NEW FOOTBALL COACH AND A NEW STADIUM, STUDENT .,.....,egap OneS GOVERNMENT DISTRIBUTED 4000 GOLD MEGAPHONES TO STUDENTS 
.1. .1..1. BEFORE THE FIRST PEP RALLY TO SHOW OUR IRISH SPIRIT. 
1 
OUR FALL REPORT TO THE BOARD OF TRUSTEES ADDRESSED THE NEED TO 

van p00 
REPLACE THE AGING CSC VANS WITH MORE RELIABLE TRANSPORTATION FOR 
CLUBS AND ORGANIZATIONS. 
EACH WEEK, STUDENT GOVERNMEN.T DELIVERS THE HOOK-CatnpUS hOOk_,Up UPTOYOURDORMROOMINANEFFORTTOKEEPSTUDENTS 
INfORMED. TO BECOME INVOLVED CALL 1-4552. 
• h 
STUDENT GOVERNMENT IS PROUD TO ONCE AGAIN BE A 

PrOJeCt \Vartnt 
SPONSOR OF PROJECT WARMTH. DROP-OFF YOUR UN-NEEDED COATS IN THE STUDENT GOVERNMENT OFFICE, 203 LAFUN.
• d d • 
DISTRIBUTED NEXT WEEK, THE NEW DESIGNATED d eStgnat e rtV ers DRIVER'S CARD ENTITLES THE BEARER TO FREE SOFT 
. DRINKS AT MANY LOCAL ESTABLISHMENTS. 
IN AN EFFORT TO SHORTEN THE TREK FOR DORMS WITHOUT LAUNDRY FACILITIES, 


1 Undry
a STUDENT GOVERNMENT IS PUBLISHING A GUIDE TO WHEN LAUNDRY ROOMS IN WOMEN'S AND MEN'S DORMS ARE OPEN TO NON-HALL RESIDENTS. 
LAST SPRING, STUDENT GOVERNMENT, ALONG WITH COACH DAVIES OFFICE 
ll• 

P,ep · · ra ··teS-GREATEfFFHE·S~UDENTPEPRALLYCOMMITTEE; RESPONSIBLE FOR THE CHANGES IN THIS YEAR'S RALLIES, WITH A FOCUS ON STUDENTS. 
• OUR DEPARTMENT OF STUDENT COMPUTING WORKS REGULARY WITH THE 
COtnpUttng UNIVERSITY OFFICE OF INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY TO IMPROVE · COMPUTING OPPORTUNITIES. FOR MORE INFO CALL TIM @ 1-6383. 
TODAY, AT 8PM IN THE LIBRARY AUDITORIUM, STUDENT · 
gender forutn g~x~~~E~T~~~§~,~~R~~~~~~~~g~Mci~TEEJ~~ l~f 8~3~6~.R
• • h h 
STUDENT GOVERNMENT HOSTED THE BOSTON COLLEGE STUDENT BODY 

trlS trop y 
PRESIDENT AND VICE-PRESIDENT FOR THE RECENT FOOTBALL GAME 
WHICH CULMINATED WITH A HALF-TIME FIELD PRESENTATION. 
• STUDENT GOVERNMENT WAS A PROUD SPONSOR OFtnance THE "CAMPAIGN FINANCE SYMPOSIUM" WITH PANELISTS

catnpatgn f • 
SUCH AS MICHAEL DUKAKIS. 
OUR STUDENT COMPUTING DEPARTMENT REGULARLY UPDATES OUR WEB­PAGE, WHICH SERVES AS A DIRECT SOURCE FOR STUDENTS WANTING MORE 

web page 
DETAILED INFORMATION. http://www.nd.edu/-studegov 
IN AN EFFORT TO HELP FACILITATE THE MOVE TO WEST QUAD, STUDENT 
GOVERNMENT WELCOMED STUDENTS TO MCGLINN & WELSH HALLS WITH 

west quad 
IRISH COFFEE MUGS. 

STUDENT GOVERNMENT WAS HAPPY TO SPONSOR THE FRESHMEN f h 0 ptCnlC ~~~f~J~b~~~g~~E~~~~~~ING FRESHMEN AND THEIR PARENTS 
res 

THIS SUMMER, STUDENT GOVERNMENT HELPED IN THE REVISION OF DULAC, 

dU 1aC 
WHICH NOW INCLUDES A SECTION ON STUDENT SERVICES AND THE WORD "RIGHT" IN DISCIPLINARY HEARINGS. 
~ 
-

CONTACT US AT= 
203 LAFORTUNE. 631-7668. nd.stugov.l@nd.edu 
Matt Griffin @ 1-4555 Erek Nass @ 1-4554 Mary Gillard @ 1-9888 Student Life: Joyce @ 1-4556 Athletic Resources: Keith @ 1-7668 Student Computing: Tim@ 1-6283 Social Concerns: Beth/Andrea@ 1-7668 



St der1t
Diversity Council: Steve Campus Hook-Up@ 1-4552 Relations: Mary @ 1-9888 SafeRide @ 1-9888 BOT Reports: Katie @ 1-7668 Gender Issues: Britany @ 1-7668 

Goverr1mer1t 
-~~----~-------, 
page 12 The Observer • SPORTS Wednesday, December 3, 1997
-
• NFL 
49ers' DeBartolo to be indicted for gambling fraud 
Associated Press 
BATON ROUGE, La. 

Edward DeBartolo Jr. resigned as the head of the San Francisco 49ers Tuesday amid reports that he and former Louisiana Gov. Edwin Edwards are to be indicted by a federal grand jury for gambling fraud. 
In a statement from Youngstown, Ohio, Debartolo's sister Denise DeBartolo York said she was assuming the posi­tion of chairman and ,-_;hief executive officer ofthe 49ers. 
"Because my brother needs to put his full focus on his legal issue, he has resigned as an officer and director of the Edward J. DeBartolo Corp. and its subsidiaries, including his resignation as an officer and director of the San Francisco 49ers," she said. 
She said club president Carmen Policy would continue to run the team's day-to-day operations, and would become a minority partner and replace her brother as the team's rep­resentative to the NFL for league business. 
Edward DeBartolo Jr., who purchased the 49ers in 1977 and has presided over five Super Bowl championships, and Edwards were among at least 
wwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwww~ 
! "As You Wish" ! 



Imports 
Sweaters, Tapestries, Jewelry, Accessories, and Much More! Guatemala • Bali • Mexico • Brazil • Thailand • India • Ecuador 
INCREDIBLE PRICES! GREAT CHRISTMAS GIFTS! 


w CLEARANCE SALE! w ~ Unbelievable Bargain Corner! w W •Proceeds from this corner help send 'Bs W 6 Guatemalan children to school. w w Other Donations Greatly Appreciated ffi 
w LaFortune-Room 108, Dec 1-6, 10-5 pm ~ wwwwwww~wwwwwwwww~~~~~~~~~~~w 
THURSDAY COLLEGE NIGHTS DECEMBER 4TH FEATURING 
TASHI STATION
-
WITH A SPECIAL GUEST BANDT. B.A. Doors open 8:00 p.m. 21 and over with proper IDs $3.00 with Student ID -$4.00 without Off Duty Uniform Police Security­Lighted Parking 
Coming Wednesday, Qec. lOth Last Day of Class Party 
Save $1.00 with this ad Thursday before 11:00p.m. 
six people who were notified that they will soon be indicted on gambling fraud charges. 
The others who were sent "target letters" included Edwards' son, Stephen Edwards, the newspapers said. 
The letters are used to notify recipients of imminent indict­ment and invite them to testify before the grand jury if they wish to offer evidence that could absolve them. 
DeBartolo's presence on the list could mean the indictment concerns events surrounding the awarding of a gaming license in March to a partner­ship that included DeBartolo and Hollywood Casino Corp. 
DeBartolo withdrew from the project after the Louisiana State Gaming Control Board demanded that he turn over all documents he gave to the grand jury. They included an "unexe­cuted agreement" between DeBartolo and Stephen Edwards, according to a copy of the grand jury subpoena. 
"We have been aware of the grand jury investigation in Louisiana since Mr. DeBartolo appeared before that panel last June," said NFL spokesman Joe Browne. "We will have no com­ment on today's media reports until our office has had further discussions with Mr. DeBartolo." 

Prices good until December 12, 1997 
EXTENDED HOLIDAY HOURS 
Wilshire Plaza, Mishawaka, 271-0696 
81-8719-127 
page 13

Wednesday, December 3, 1997 The Observer· PAID AOVERTISEMENT 
RecSports "Champion Student Award" recipients are selected by the Office of Recreational Sports. Honorees are chosen for their involvement in RecSports, including excellence in sportsmanship, leadership and participation. 
Krysten Schuler, a senior biology major from Bradford, PA, has left her mark at Notre Dame as the guiding force behind the success of the Notre Dame Equestrian Club. After serving as the treasurer for two years, she is currently the President of the club. Under her leadership, the Equestrian Club placed 3rd in the 1996-97 Team Regional and is one of only 1 2 teams invited to participate in the 1 997 Collegiate Invitational to be held in Columbia, South Carolina. Krysten's personal success includes the 1996-97 Reserve Regional Champion and a two year representative in the Zone Championships. She is a former member of the Notre Dame Ski Club and has participated in Women's lnterhall Football. 
Recipients receive <£~ merchandise from the 
...... 
VARSITY SHOP 
..... 
"Specializing in Authentic 
Notre Dame Sportswear" 
·--(Joyce ~e_nt~r) 

iltll 
VARSITY SHOP 




"Specializing in Authentic 


Sale! 
20%offany (£~ 
&'­
Sweatshirt at the vir'ior . 
Offer good Dec. 3 rd-Dec. 1 Oth Must bring in this ad to receive discount. 
Look for this award to appear in the Observer every other Wednesday. Students selected receive (£~ 
-

I"'W"" L....,.~..:~~ a. It
merchandise courtesy of \,&..-..-n...-r--y-and the viir'io; located on the second floor of the Joyce Center. The 
:as ...


vir'io; 
is open Monday-Saturday 11 :OOam to 5:00pm and Sunday 1:OOpm to 4:00pm. (Phone: 631-8560). 

page 14 The Observer • SPORTS Wednesday, December 3, 1997 
_.. 
-
Hoosiers stand at 2-2 on the grams that has a lot of talent year. and is always competitive," said 
• SPORTS BRIEFS 

Knight's group returns four Garrity. "We know that we will starters from last year's squad, certainly have our work cut out 
Notre Dame MartiaJ Arts including leading scorer for us. That's the way it always 
Institute -Tae kwon do Andrae Patterson, 1996-97 Big is when you go up against 
and jujitsu practice for Ten freshman of the year A.J. Indiana." 
beginners will take place Guyton, Jason Collier, and Indiana basketball. Special 
from 4 to 6 p.m. on Charlie Miller. might just be the best way to 
Thursdays and 6 to 8 p.m. "Indiana is one of those pro-describe it. 
on Sundays in Room 218 Rockne Memorial. All are welcome. Field Hockey-Practice will be on Mondays and Wednesdays from 9 to 10 
p.m. in Loftus. Call Maureen at x42Sl orStephanie at x2741 with any questions. 
Dec6 
INTERNATIONAL 
JoB SKILLS

Jan 17 at Seton Hall Jan 21 SYRACUSE 
New professional M.A. in

Jan 28 VILLANOVA 
International Affairs or

Jan 31 at St. John's 
Interamerican Studies 

Feb 5 at Rutgers 
prepares you rapidly for 

Feb7 at Georgetown 
exciting careers: 

Feb 11 BOSTON COLLEGE 
0 environmental studies 

Feb 14 at Miami 
0 public health 

Feb 17 CONNECTICUT 
0 government
Feb 22 MIAMI 
0 international 

Feb25 GEORGETOWN 
organizations 

Feb28 at Providence 
0 international media, 
business Learn valuable analytic skills from economics and the social sciences. 

Mar4 at BIG EAST TOURNEY 
Saint Mary's College 
Complete this intensive multi-disciplinary degree


Ireland Program 
in 12 to 15 months, while Information Session: 
living in a fascinating international city. 
Free details.

TONIGHT December3 
SCHOOL OF 
INTERNATIONAL STUDIES

Haggar College Center 
C.orJI Gables, FL 33124·30 10 305·284-4173; Fax: 305-284-4406 www.miami.edu/sis 


$ $  Several grants are awarded each year by the Kellogg Institute for International Studies  $ $  
$  $  
$  $  
$  $  
$  FOR MORE INFORMATION, COME TO A MEETING:  $  
$  WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 3  $  
$  s:oo  $  
$  DEBARTOLO I 20  $  
$  '$  
$  For further information, contact:  $  
$  Professor Michael Francis  $  
$  1-5203 (Hurley I IO)  $  

IS $ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ 
,,. 


Garrity 
continued from page 16 
Irish to a 88-69 win. 

"We know that we have to step up and take some of the load off Pat," said MacLeod. 
Counseline Fill Your Head ... Counseline gives you the information you need 1 X 7793 Monday -Thursday 4pm-12am Counseline is an audio tape info. service sponsored by the Psych Club and the University Counseling Center providing info. on topics i~~~~:~~tiooships !1['J Facing anxiety and fear c . \Nith stress U~nding eating disorders /~\ Date rape 'tJ Dealing \Nith loneliness and depression Recognizing the early signs of alcoholism i Recognizing suicidal potential in others For a complete listing of all the tapes check the front of your directory  
••ISLAI IN AIERICA'' A talk presented by DR. HAMID ABDUL HAl Northwestern University Chairman, Islamic Group, Parliament of the World's Religions Sponsored by the Muslim Students Association and The Mediterranean Middle East Area Studies Program Friday, December 5th at 6 p.m. Faculty Lounge, Hesburgh Library  

"Later in the season, if he's not having his best night, we have to know that we have other people who can make things happen and give us a chance to win." 
After topping Northeast Louisiana before falling to Hawaii over the weekend, the 
The Observer/John Daily 

Freshman Leviticus Williamson has helped the Irish to a 4-1 mark. They will take that record to Bloomington to face the Hoosiers. 

Wednesday, December 3, 1997 The Observer • TODAY page 15 
-

MEN ABOUT CAMPUS 
EVER SEEN.
...-------1 0 ~ 
) 

~==~~i ~ 
~ ~ ----~------------~ ~--~~--~----------~ ~-U~~--~--------~~~ 


CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 34 Bygone Ford 61 Amend one's 37 1970's Tony 
re.turn

1 On the double Musante series 62Kirk: --:: ...
5 Peace Nobelist of 1984 
39 Command to 65 "Havana" Rover actress
9 Classic drinks 40 Sourpuss && Astaire had it
14Jazzhome 41 Halfhearted 67 The East 
15 Letters of urgency 42 Kind of bread 68 Outback critters 16lmpossible to 43 Prop at a 69 Antidote target miss Christmas 
70 Injurymusical

17 Tick off 71 Feminine suffix 
44 Serpent's home 

18 Columbus: 45 Plains roamers 
DOWN
20 Brunch staple 46 Chretien's 22 Much of capital 1 Hue and cry 
Mongolia 48 Essayist Sontag 2"--toKill" 23 Bird's bill so Tex-Mex snack (Grisham novel) 24 Distant 52 Got (by) 3 City on the 
Willamette
26 St. Louis 56 Kramden vehicle attraction 4 Stubing: --::
59 Winningest28 Like the flu N.C.A.A. 30 "Hey Girl" basketball 5 One who sips singer, 1971 coach 6 "Home of the brave" 7 Flavor to ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE remember 
Puzzle by John D. Leavy

8 --point (only so far) 31 "Miss-­49 Riot 57 "Do--others Regrets" " 
9 Daily page 51 Geraldo 32 Warsaw Pact sa Charon's
10 Reproductive competitor crossingcounterforcecells 53 Series sample 60 Tower site 33 Cannon in
11 "Show Boat" 63 George Bush 
Hollywood 54 "Cats" lyricist composer was one34 Audio problem 55 None too bright 
12 Native New 64 Sidney Poitier 
35 Fieldsian 

Yorker 56 A+ title role 
expletive13Wildguess . 36 Popeye, e.g. 

190verseas 
38 Drawback Answers to any three clues in this puzzle 21 What lurks in the 

41 Service 

are available by touch-tone phone: hearts of men , component 1-900-420-5656 (75¢ per minute). 

-:-+::-:+-:-+.:-1 25 Went with 
45 In the buff Annual subscriptions are available for the -=+=+::+.7! 27 Corcoran : --47 Briar patch, best of Sunday crosswords from the last 29 Runs maybe 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS . 
The Holiday Season .... we think of our families, homes filled with laughter, spending time with one another and sitting down to the table together for a holiday meal. 
DON'T LET THERE BE AN EMPTY SPACE AT SOMEONE'S TABLE. PLEASE DON'T DRINK AND DRIVE THIS HOLIDAY SEASON. 
Sponsored by the Office of Alcohol and Drug Education 
DAN SULLIVAN 

Due: 1-o ;"lORE 
PRr5SJ/\h7 I"JAT1~5, 
TODAY '5 COrllc STRIP WILL NOT f3E FUN/'1): .. 
SoRRY FoR THE INCONVENIENCE. 
MIKE PETERS 

YOUR HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 
Aries: As the Moon moves into Aquarius later in the day, you may become stubborn and less cooperative. Feelings of friendship may be all that can patch up a professional relationship. Take an active role in mendJng fences. Taurus: This is a day to go places. You could launch a new idea, climb the corporate ladder, or run with the wolves. The best risks are the ones based on your deeply held principles. Gemini: Despite your power­ful message, your voice is muted today. Formalities may be more than you can handle. Do whatever it takes, and worry about the damage con­trol tomorrow. Cancer: You may need to take the active role in a relation­ship if anything is going to happen. Move things to the next level by becoming the spokesperson for your family's goals. Someone needs your objectivity. Leo: Free your cargo of dead weight today. Leave an open­ing in your plans for the ele­ment of chance, just to see what happens. Disliking your teacher is no reason to be afraid of learning something new. Virgo: Today you find special delight in sticking to your rou­tine. Let your mind wander into uncharted realms, driven along by a comforting rhythm. Others come to depend on your innovations. Libra: Finish all older business today before starting anything 
......,v"'."... and Dumplings England Clam 
Chowder BBQ Beef Sandwich Neopt:>litan Style Spaghetti Chicken Fajita Pizzas 
Wanted: Reporters, photographers and editors. 


Join The Observer staff . 
else. Giving friends special treatment will not endear you to your regular customers. Simple, practical solutions are favored over flights of wild fancy. Scorpio: A sleeping part of your brain wakes up and smells the coffee. A confusing situation becomes instantly clear when you look at it from the outside. Your goals are important enough to be worth risking what others think of you. Sagittarius: You are distracted by background noises today. Other areas of your life begin to press in on the bubble of your concentration. Relax your discipline a little, or you'll start making yourself crazy. Capricorn: Today's impulses are probably worth pursuing. Take all these good feelings in the air and make something happen with them. The wealth of the moment is tem­porary and should be spent, not just admired. Aquarius: Today your person­al life beckons, making your external world irrelevant. You are happy to change your mind at will, despite what you may have said yesterday. Shake things up just to see what happens. Pisces: A sudden breath of fresh air blows through a stale environment. Today you are able to stretch yourself in ways that you only dreamed were possible. Remember who your friends are as everything changes. 
-
... 
-
-


0"' 
0 _j 0 
®" 
"' 
"' 
0. 
" 
,_
"
,_ 
SCOTT ADAMS 

TI-\1\T'S THE. 
MOST FRIGHTENING OUTFIT I'VE 
'I'OU HfWE.N'T ';)EEN ME IN 

DILBERT 
~RE. 'I'OU SUR.E THIS I5 W~ER£. I REPORT THE MISU5E. Of ANALOGIES'? '<OU'RE DRESSED VE.R'< 
ODD. 


- 
SPORTS  
page 16  Wednesday, December 3, 1997  

• WOMEN's BASKETBAll 

Women to face two challenging conference foes 

The ObseJVer/John Daily 

Mollie Peirick, the only returning starter from last year's final four team, has gotten the Irish off to a 3-1 start. 
of!' 23-and 29-point perfor­defense rattle us." McMillen mances. But if the Irish are to said. be successful tonight, they will After tonight's contest. the need to concentrate on staying Irish will return home where within their game. they will host Naismith player 
"Taking care of the ball and of the year candidate Nykesha playing fundamentally is what Sales and the second-ranked we need to do and not let their Connecticut Huskies . 
ByJOECAVATO Assistant Sports Editor 
In the midst of a challenging out-of-conference schedule. the women's basketball team will take on two conference foes this week. Although they are not national powers, Big East opponents Rutgers (tonight) and Connecticut (Saturday) will provide just as stiff of a chal­lenge. 
-
Rutgers and Connecticut are atop the preseason Big East coaches polls in their respective divisions. Although the season is still just getting out of the 
gates, the 3-1 Irish, are hoping to get off to a quick start in con­ference play. 
"It's a big game, especially early on," junior co-captain Sheila McMillen said. "We can't let this game get away from us. It is early in the season, and it is a. conference game so we need to come out ready to play and give us a good standing in the Big East right away instead of digging ourselves into a hole." 
The Irish will travel to Rutgers after winning two con­tests in California over the Thanksgiving weekend. Notre 

The ObseJVer/John Daily Julie Henderson and Irish will have to step up their defense in the next two games, especially when Connecticut comes to town. 
Dame rebounded from its loss to Duke a week earlier by knocking off UC-Santa Barbara and UCLA. But Rutgers will present yet another challenge under the leadership of head coach Vivian Stringer. 
Stringer, the fifth winningest women's collegiate coach, is in her third year at Hutgers after 12 seasons at Iowa where she took her team to the NCAA Tournament nine of those 12 years, including one Final Four appearance in the 1992-93 sea­son. 
Stringer has assembled two of the best recruiting classes in the nation in her first two sea­sons at Hutgers. Sophomore guard/forward Usha Gilmore was named to the second team preseason all-Big East by the coaches, and freshman Natasha Pointer was named preseason rookie of the year. 
"I think Rutgers is a really athletic team," McMillen said. "I think we'll have to slow them down and stop their penetra­tion. We really need to contain the ball." 
That will put pressure on the perimeter defense and senior Mollie Peirick and junior Danielle Green, who have both been productive in recent games. 
Green, who missed all of last year with an injury, is coming off back-to-back 19-point per­formances in California. Green is also known for her defensive pressure and quickness, which could play a vital role in tonight's contest. 
Peirick. the team's lone returning starter, has been a solid floor leader for the Irish. McMillen has taken on the role of scorer for the Irish, coming 
• MEN's BASKETBAlL 

Irish set to face the Hoosiers 
By MIKE DAY Sports Editor 
It's hard to describe and even more difficult to put a finger on. · Simply put, there is something special about Indiana basket­ball. 
There's the history, the tradi­tion, and the mystique. The game is even played in the state where basketball is believed to be born and perfected in. Add 
... the legendary Bobby Knight to the mix, and you're talking about more than your average basketball game. 
"Playing Indiana is one of the highlights of the season." said Irish head coach John MacLeod. "They always have a good team. and you know you'll have your work cut out for you
-
in a game against Indiana. But you kind of get a feel that it's something special to play against them." The Irish travel to Bloomington tonight to take on the Hoosiers at 7:30p.m. After -reeling off a pair of victories at 
the Joyce Center against Sam Houston State and Northeastern, Notre Dame will attempt to improve its record to 4-1 on the season. 
For that to happen, they will have to overcome a bit of recent history. The Hoosiers have won the last two meet­

ings, including a 76-75 victory last season, and the Irish have not won at Assembly Hall since 1973. 
"In recent years, we've strug­gled against them," said MacLeod. "But we have a dif­ferent team now, so hopefully things will go differently. If we take care of the ball and hit our free throws, we'll be line." 
Senior all-American candi­date Pat Garrity was certainly fine in Friday's win over the Sam Houston State Bearkats. For the first time this season, Garrity found his rhythm from the field, scoring a season-high 32 points to go along with eight rebounds. 
However, for the Irish to be successful, it is Garrity's sup­porting cast that must step to the forefront tonight against the Hoosiers. After being com­pletely shut down at Marquette, the group enjoyed its best effort of the season in the 19-point win over the Bearkats. 
Against Sam llouston State, sophomore guard Keith Friel was the story of the game, com­ing off the bench to tally a career-best 16 points. II' that weren't enough, center Phil Hickey added 14 points, and swingman Antoni Wyche poured in 11 to help stake the 
see GARRITYI page 14 


The ObseJVer/John Daily Antoni Wyche is coming off an 11 point performance against Sam Houston State. 

• Women's basketball at Rutgers, 
~:• at Western Michigan, a; 
• 
:f-4>f ~ .. December 5, 7 a.m. College basketball coverage 
Tonight, 7:30p.m. 

•
4kil<o
Men's basketball at Indiana, 
at NCAA Semifinals, 

\~ ~ see page 10 
Tonight, 7:30p.m. 

December 5. 3:30 p.m. ..... 
• 
Basketball, ~ •DeBartolo resigns as head of 49ers
Swimming, 
Notre Dame Invitational, 
SMC Roundball Classic, 
see page 12

S:tt
December 4, I 0 a.m. 
December 5 

~ 








