
Monday, March 24, 1997 • Vol. XXX No. 111 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Parseghian's grandson succumbs to rare genetic disorder 
Associated Press 
TUCSON, Ariz. 
Michael Parseghian, grand­son of retired Notre Dame foot­ball coach Ara Parseghian, died Saturday of an inherited dis­ease that inspired a nationwide research fund drive headed by his grandfather. 
Michael Parseghian would have been 10 on Thursd11y. 
By HEATHER COCKS 
News Ediror 
Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students tuning into WVFI in the coming weeks can expect to hear a broader selection of popular music, in addition to rww and unfamiliar bands. 
Completing an initiative that bngan two ynars ago, sta­
tion manager 'W · · 
1\lih Flood e .··. 
sive to the college community," Flood explained. "We're shak­ing the stereotype that we play music that no one wants to hear." 
He attributed that generaliza­tion to WVFI's commitment to being an outlet for new bands and different musical genres. "We've played music by several popular bands before they were well-known," Flood noted. "We don't want to stop playing them now just because they're more commercialized." 
The current format for each 
His two younger sisters also suffer from Niemann-Pick Type C disease, a rare genetic disor­der which leaves children with­out an enzyme needed to metabolize cholesterol. 
Over time, cholesterol builds up in the cells of the liver, spleen and brain. 
Niemann-Pick afflicts an esti­mated 500 children in the United States, most of whom will die within 10 years of diag­nosis, experts say. 
His condition baffled special­ists for months before a pedi­atric neurologist with Columbia University in New York diag­nosed the illness in August 1994. 
Compounding the family's tragedy, his two younger sis­ters, Marcia, 8, and Christa, 5, were found the next month to be afflicted as well. 
Michael and Cindy Parseghian's oldest child, Ara, 12, does not have the disease. 
"There's a lot of pain in this family, but I try to look at the kids as they are living," Cindy Parseghian told The Arizona Daily Star last week. "They take so much joy out of every day. Every night, we sit around the table and say prayers, and they all find something good about their day to thank God for. They are very happy chil­dren." 
In 1994, the couple estab­lished the Ara Parseghian Medical Research Foundation to raise money to search of a treatment or cure. With Ara Parseghian as national 
see ARA I page 6 
program is that 50 percent of air time is devoted to music on the rotation; the remaining time is filled at the announcer's discretion. 
"During that [non-rotation segment], we will incorporate more bands like Dave Matthews and No Doubt," Flood said. "We'll still use new music, 
""""""""""_..,~ and hopefully
these more pop­
ular tunes will 
attract listeners 
been dnveloping on-air since January 1996. 
"We hope students will find us more in agreement with their tastes in music," Flood stated. 
In addition to the regulation, Flood announced that the sta­tion's proposal to move from 640 AM to an FM frequency is currently being reviewed by the Office of Student Affairs. An official decision is expected after students return from Easter Break; Flood and his co­workers filed the proposal in March 1996. 

University dedicates Bond Hall 
By MICHELLE KRUPA Assistant News Editor 
Five years of work culminat­ed this week with the dedica­tion of the Bond Hall of Architecture. Professors, stu­dents, alumni, and other hon­orary guests were among the campus visitors who came to celebrate the contributions that Notre Dame and its grad­uates have made to the world of architecture. 
Among the guests was William Bond, Jr., the build­ing's benefactor who donated $5 million for the recent reno­vation, which was completed in December. Bond, a retired Notre Dame graduate who practiced architecture in Memphis for over 25 years, donated the funds with a sense of dedication to the school. 
''I've always loved Notre Dame. As for the money, they needed it and I had it, and I wanted to give it to them," Bond said. 
The building was officially dedicated at 5 p.m. Friday in a short ceremony in the newly refurbished main entrance. 
doctorates in the arts from the at being recognized. 
University president Fatlier School of Architecture. "It is a very great honor to
Edward Malloy blessed the 
The three honorees, have my work honored by onefacility, its faculty and stu­Elizabeth Plater-Zybert, Allan of the most greatly respected
dents, praying that all who 
Greenberg, and Dmitri schools of architecture, Notreenter will "use their talents to Porphyrios, were all on hand Dame," Porphyrios said. 
design as God designed the 
throughout the weekend to According to professor
universe." 
celebrate the" occasion.
In addition, three profession­
Porphyrins expressed his pride 

als were awarded honorary see BOND I page 4 
WVFI plans switch to new progra01 content 
an n o u n c e d stereotype that to new stuff as their intent to we play musi.c that no well." 
givt~ air time to lie added· that music that one wants to hear! their music col-demographics lection has been prove is pre-e x p a n d e d ferrnd by col-Mike Flood accordingly, and lege students. the new policy, 
"Wn want to though recently be more inclu-------------finalized, has 

For a good cause ... 
The Obse!Ver/John Daley 
· Several Notre Dame students enjoyed an evening of dancing Friday night with friends at the Logan Center, a center which aids the disabled in South Bend. The event was held as part of Disability Awareness Week at Notre Dame, which included a series of presentations, speakers, and social events. 
See story, page 6 

Hesburgh reflects on 25 years of co-education 
By DEREK BETCHER 
Associate News Editor 
Combining two of Notre Dame's most powerful symbols, Father Theodore Hesburgh spoke on the steps of the Main Building Saturday afternoon. Hesburgh's remarks capped off 
a week cele­
· brating the 25th anniver­sary of co­education at Notre Dame. Fittingly, Mary Bliley, the first 

woman to Hesburgh receive an undergraduate degree from Notre Dame, and Ann Pettifer, 
the first  woman  admitted to  
Notre  Dame,  introduced  
Hesburgh.  

"Men are better when women are around. There's no doubt that they bring something to our campus," Hesburgh told the audience. "They're more and more an integral part of what Notre Dame is." 
Although a chilling wind kept his remarks brief, Hesburgh used his address to both exam­ine the background of the University's landmark 1972 decision to admit women and to praise the benefits of co-edu­cation. Befitting a figure who has been tied to Notre Dame for over 50 years, Hesburgh also touched on some of the changes he has seen in the direction of the University. 
"What I've noticed is that when I came here in 1934, this was a raunchy place. It was a wonderful place for feisty young men, but it was raunchy nonetheless," h"e said, alluding to the ennobling effects of hav­ing women interact with men. Hesburgh noted that when he became president of the University in 1952, he thought 
see HESBURGH I page 4 

-------------------------------------------------------~ 
• INSIDE COlUMN 
Whose 
Independence 
Bowl? 
The Orange Bowl gets"";""~~~~~~ 
its name from the orange crop for which Florida is famous. Cotton, another major crop that the South is famous for producing, gives its narrie to a college football bowl game in eastern Texas. But how 
did any regio1_1 of the Matthew Loughran 
country receive the AssisramNewsEdiror ignominious fate of ------=---­being known for Poulan Weed-Eaters? 
No region is truly known for Poulan Weed­Eaters. It is no big deal; it is simply corpo­rate sponsorship buying the soul of college athletics. In all honesty, Poulan is not the only culprit. Federal Express owns the Orange Bowl. John Hancock and Blockbuster have their own bowls, and Tostitos owns the Fiesta Bowl. As a matter of fact, every bowl game in college football is owned by at least one company. 
College football is not the only problem. Sponsorship has leaked into almost every sport in the NCAA. For evidence of this, one need only look at the floor of the Joyce Athletic and Convocation Center. Somewhere around the three point arc, the words "Chase NIT" have been emblazoned on the court. The National Invitational Tournament has been bought by Chase Bank. Did they invite the teams to play? That is doubtful at best. 
While this trend has poured over into pro­fessional athletics, nowhere has it reared its ugly head as much as in professional basket­ball. The new MCI Center in downtown Washington, D.C. is the new home of the recently renamed Washington Wizards. (Bullets! They have always been the Bullets, and they always will be the Bullets.) Of course, these new corporate sponsored are­nas help you locate the hub of most major airlines so that you know what city you will fly through on a connecting flight. The America West Arena in Pheonix, the USAir Arena in Landover, Md. (the former home of the Bullets; it used to be known as the Capital Centre), and the United Center in Chicago are examples that spring to mind. 
Professional football would never stoop so low as to name stadiums after benefactors, right? Well, except for the RCA Dome and 3­Com Park, and maybe a few others. 
Now that the point has been driven into the ground that the sporting world has taken the money and run, what is the real problem? 
The real problem is not that everyone has his name on the local arena or team. The problem is that such blatant commercial sup­port has spawned a new type of athlete. This kind of athlete is more concerned with having a soft drink, shoe and snack food contract by the time that he is 23, than he is with making sure that he learns the basics of the game and simply helps his team win. 
Baseball players striking about the ability to make more millions and basketball players getting ridiculous signing bonuses and $10­15 million contracts as a norm only feed this perception. Sports should be about sports. Players should spend their time striving to reach higher goals than those who come before them, not striving to reach higher tax brackets. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
• TooAv's STAFF  
News  Graphics  
John DeBoy  Melissa Weber  
Sarah Hiltz  Production  
Sports  John DeBoy  
Betsy Baker  Mark DeBoy  
Viewpoint  Nate Wills  
Jenny Metzger  Lab Tech  
Accent  Brandon Candura  
Andrea Jordan  
Catherine Deely  

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of rhe Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
• WORLD AT A GLANCE 
Israel calls for crackdown on Islamic militants 
JERUSALEM  r1 Israeli-held area  police  shot  and  wounded  two  
Israel's  Cabinet  called  on  the  • Palestinian  Palestinians.  
Palestinian Authority Sunday to crack  community  Friday's suicide bombing ended a  
down on Islamic militant groups, but  c Israeli settlement  year-long lull in such attacks. And for  
stopped short of suspending peace  the first time, Israel's government  
talks. Angry Palestinians stoned Israeli  blamed Yasser Arafat directly for hav­ 
troops again, and soldiers shot two  ing given the go-ahead.  
Palestinians at a roadblock.  "There cannot be peace if this goes  
Israel braced for more attacks after  on,"  Prime  Minister  Benjamin  
the Islamic militant group Barnas,  Netanyahu told The Associated Press  
which  claimed  responsibility  for  in an interview. lie again said Arafat  
Friday's cafe bombing in Tel Aviv,  gave radical groups a green light for  
threatened to continue its campaign  attacks but added that "if we rein in  
until Israel stops a construction project  the terrorists, wp,  can proceml with  
in disputed east Jerusalem.  peace."  
Funerals were being held Sunday for  Arafat, speaking to a conference of  
the three women killed in the bombing.  Islamic leaders in Islamabad, Pakistan,  
Fearing new attacks, Israel stationed troops at Shoppl·ng malls and parks  Source: Arab Studies Society, Jerusalem  accused Israel of bowing to "extremistIre igious parties, who we know are  

where children and parents celebrated the Jewish holi-hostile to the peace process and to the rights of the day of Purim. At a checkpoint outside Jerusalem, border Palestinian people." 
First Lady, Chelsea can't stay dry 
VICTOHIA FALLS, Zimbabwe 
This must have been Chelsea 
.------~ 
Clinton's philosophy Sunday: What's a 
little water between mother and 
daughter? It's just that Victoria Falls 
has a lot more water than a little. 
Standing on an open perch looking out 
at the falls' awesome expanse, 
Chelsea, 17, encouraged first lady 
Hillary Rodham Clinton to abandon 
her umbrella to let photographers get better shots. 
"Mom, no!" the teen-ager scolded as her mother and 
two aides arranged themselves under an umbrella, 
futilely trying to ward off the spray. So Mrs. Clinton let 
down the large, multicolored umbrella. Before any pho­
tographer could say "cheese," all were soaked. 
President Clinton's wife and daughter took time out from 
a two-week tour of Africa designed to emphasize U.S. 
interests in the continent and became American tourists 
Sunday. Rather than go through a battery of official 
meetings and discussion groups as she did all last week, 
Mrs. Clinton traveled to Victoria Falls from Harare and 
was content to spend the day quietly taking in 
Zimbabwe's natural and cultural beauty. Monday the 
Clintons head to Tanzania and will visit Uganda and 
Eritrea before returning home at week's end. 
Baldness pill may cause impotence 
SAN FRANCISCO 
Balding men may soon be able to grow their hair back 
by popping a pill, the pharmaceutical firm Merck & Co. 
announced Sunday. But a full head of hair may have a 
price men are unwilling to pay, the researchers said. 
Side effects include decreased libido and difficulty 
achieving erection. Sixty-five percent of moderately 
balding men who took the drug Propecia daily for a year 
grew hair, compared with 37 percent of men who took a 
placebo, said Merck researcher Keith Kaufman, who 
presented the initial findings of his study 11t the 
American Academy of Dermatology convention. The 
researchers, who tattooed a l-inch circle on the scalps of 
the 1.550 men under age 45 in the study, found a 107­
hair improvement among men taking Propecia, Kaufman 
said. The drug, whose generic name is finasteride, sup­
presses the hormone that shrinks scalp hair follicles and 
reverses the balding process, Kaufman said. 
"Finasteride is a unique product because it inhibits a 
key underlying process responsible for hair loss," he 
said. The drug is already on the market in a higher 
dosage under the name Proscar, a treatment for 
enlarged prostate glands. 
Porsche to build American plant 
FRANKFURT, Germany 
BMW and Mercedes are already there. Audi is think­ing about it. Now, Porsche is too. The German maker of luxury sports cars may build a plant in the United States, according to a newspaper interview with Porsche chair­man Wendelin Wiedking. lie said Sunday in the Welt am Sonntag that Porsche is looking at a variety of factors, including productions costs and buyers' attitudes about where their' cars are built. "We see great chances in Europe, but also in the United States. That's our biggest export market and the tendency of Americans to buy products made in their country is vNy big," Wiedking was quoted as saying. Wiedking also told the newspaper that Porsche will develop its own sport-utility vehicle, since plans to build a four-wheel drivo. Jeep-liko vnhicle with Mercedes-Benz fell through. Porsche needs a new plant to accommodate growing production. The automaker's facility in Zuffenhausen, outside Stuttgart, was built to make 20,000 cars annually. This year, Porsche plans to make 32,000 cars there. The eompany has a plant in Finland as well. If it moves some produc­tion to America, Porsche would follow BMW and Mercedes-Benz, which recently built plants in South Carolina and Alabama, respectively. Audi, the luxury car unit of Volkswagen, said last week it is considering building a plant in the United States. 
Archives reveal Swiss Nazi conspiracy 
LONDON 
Switzerland's own archives reveal a 50-year conspiracy 
by Swiss bankers to hide Nazi loot, steal deposits from 
European Jews and prevent Holocaust victims from 
receiving adequate reparations, the author of a new book 
says. "Switzerland since the war has been paraded as a 
small humanitarian country, and nobody has ever 
exposed that its wealth is based on profiting from crime," 
Tom Bower said in an interview. "Thn Swiss dishonestly 
profited from the misery of Europe." Using material from 
the U.S., British, French and Swiss national archives, the 
British journalist traces how the Swiss banks and the 
Swiss government exploited World War II for financial 
advantage. The book, titled "Nazi Gold" in the United 
States and "Blood Money" in Britain, will be published in 
early April. It is being serialized in The Sunday Times of 
London. The book says the declared deposits in Swiss 
banks rocketed $332 million Swiss francs in 1941 to $846 
million Swiss francs in 1946, and its gold reserves doubled 
from $503 million to $1.04 billion. Yet, the Swiss denied 
that German treasure trove was hidden in their country. 
Bower was asked to write about the Swiss-Nazi connec­
tion by the staff of U.S. Sen. Alphonse D'Amato. 
• SOUTH BEND WEATHER • NATIONAL WEATHER 
The AccuWeather®forecast for noon, Monday, March 24.
5 Day South Bend Forcast 
AccuWeather® forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures Lines separate high temperature zones lor the day. 
20s 
r,____..../,.:................__ ... · H L 
Friday ~ 59 32 Saturday ~ 43 24 Sunday ~ l'~ 39 
FRONTS: 
""T"""T" ............_ ~
Monda~ ~ ~2 34 
COLD WARM STATIONARY 
CCI 1997 AccuWeather, Inc.
/ 
Pressure 
H L B ESI 1TIJ 0 [ZJ 81) ~u
Tues<;Iay ~ 43 24 
HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T·STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT CLOUDY CLOUDY 
. . ~-·~,·.........J_../\.f' 
Via AssociafsrJ Press 
Atlanta 70 44 Columbus 50 24 Minneapolis 35 26 Baltimore 49 26 Dallas 78 59 New Orleans 78 55 Beverly Hills 42 18 Denver 48 34 New York 46 28
4,~,QQ,c@Q (f ~ u 
Boston 42 23 Los Angeles 78 57 Philadelphia 47 25
Showers T-storms Rain Flurries Si1oW . Ice Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy . Via Associated Press Graph/csNet 
Chicago 49 28 Miami 82 66 Phoenix 82 55 
Monday, March 24, 1997 The Observer· CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Students and faculty confront race, gender, and religion 
By SARAH HILTZ 
News Writer 
Students and faculty mem­bers at Notre Dame found Human Rights Week, which ends tomorrow, an appropri­ate time to discuss how the University fosters or discour­ages religious and racial 
diversity on  and around cam­ 
pus.  
The  Multicultural  

Commissions of Keenan and Lewis Halls, led by Tony Ortiz and Amabella Martinez, spon­sored a forum Saturday to dis­cuss how students of different races, religions and genders could reconcile their differ­ences in social situations. 
The discussion was orga­nized by Gita Pullapilly, a sophomore from Lewis Hall. 
Pullapilly emphasized that anybody was welcome to par­ticipate in the discussion, 
which was anchored by eight students of both undergradu­ate and graduate status. 
Some students expressed satisfaction with how Notre Dame reacts to non-Catholics, while others were displeased with what they saw as a lack of non-Catholic places of wor­ship on campus. 
Junior Reggae Singleton, a Protestant, recalls receiving a flier listing non-Catholic churches in the South Bend area, since there are none on campus. 
"You're not encouraged to be of another faith on this campus," said Singleton. "Your worship here is not encouraged." 
Rajit Basu, a Hindu, acknowledged that there is nowhere for him to practice his religion on campus, but praised Notre Dame for its inclusive, community-oriented attitude toward non-Catholics. 
Basu also encouraged stu­dents to direct questions to other students of different reli­gions and races. 

here is not encour­aged.' 
Rajit Basu 
"Let go of the shell. Lose the inhibitions," Basu urged. 
Brother Bonaventure Scully, rector of Keenan Hall, remind­ed students that Notre Dame was a "Catholic ghetto until 10 years ago." 
In addressing non-Catholic students who are disgruntled with the status of worship opportunities on campus, he maintained that "the process of ecumenizing the campus will take a long time." 
Another topic of discussion was race relations on campus. James Friday, an African­American student, talked about his perception of com­munity. 
He emphasized the strength of smaller groups over the Notre Dame community as a whole. 
"If you ask me, [the Notre Dame] community is very weak. Birds of a feather flock together, and they find strength in numbers," Friday explained. 
Paula Lopez, a senior of Spanish descent, was frustrat­ed with how students are reluctant to go to multicultural events on campus under the mistaken impression that they are culturally exclusive. 
Lopez encouraged students to attend such functions, emphasizing that all are wel­come. 
The forum also targeted the role of women in the Catholic Church. Michele Roanhouse, a junior from Lewis, said she felt like an outsider as a female member of the Catholic Church, since her parish is one of many that do not per­mit women to be altar servers. 
Her views were shared by many who agreed that they were less likely to participate in a community that discrimi­nates on the basis of gender. 
If you see news 

happening, call The Observer at 
1-5323. 
TEACH ENGLISf:4~f£RN EUROP PRAGUE • BUDAPEST • KRAKOW 
How would_you like co teach basic conversacional 
English in Eastern Europe? Our materials profile 
many rewarding reachmg opportunities with great benefits. For information call: 
(206) 971-3684 Ext. K55845 
w~~.... rCSQn.h&:ruhhslllrt;L<I 
• 


The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS Monday, March 24, 1997 
allowing me to graduate, with­University has undertaken. According to Smith, the festivi­
out the compassion and fore­In conjunction with the ties bring together the spirit of
Hesburgh Bond 
continued from page 1 
that 90 percent of the students liked their "macho institution." "But even men can learn," he jokingly added. 
Twenty years later, the cultur­
al climate had changed and a 
merger was being discussed 
between Notre Dame and Saint 
Mary's College. 
"For a while, I t'hought we were going to pull it off," Hesburgh said. 
Talks between the two institu­tions lasted two years before Hesburgh concluded that Saint Mary's was intent on keeping its women students under its own name, living on its own campus. Following that realization, Hesburgh explained that he then asked the Saint Mary's adminis­tration if they would mind Notre Dame directly enrolling its own female students. The two parties agreed that plan was for the bet­ter, and a new era was born. 
Indeed, Hesburgh's appear­ance was particularly appropri­ate to the week's commemora­tion; he is recognized as the seminal figure in moving Notre Dame toward co-education. Bliley and Pettifer both acknowl­edged his involvement in their opening remarks. 
"Without Father Hesburgh 
sight that he had, this [25 years 
of co-education] just would not 
have been possible," Bliley said. 
While Bliley's remarks were predominately reflections on her role in becoming "Notre Dame's first lady." Pettifer used the occasion to examine unresolved gender issues on campus. Specifically she called for more female role models in top cam­pus leadership positions, even chastising the student body for never having elected a female student body president. 
"Of course I'm grateful for the decision to admit women," she told the audience. "But until the Church gets rid of its sexism, there ought to be a sense of ambivalence." 
Wheri speaking, Father Hesburgh later welcomed such criticism. saying it has the power to strengthen the University. 
In fact, Hesburgh set the audi­ence abuzz by concluding his address with an explanation of how he had answered a gender issues que~tion posed to him earlier in the week. The ques­tion he was asked, he said, was "How do you feel the Church ought to treat women?" 
"l have a simple, uncompli­cated answer -the same way they treat men," he concluded. 

Michiana Outpatient P~~cedures 
Colin Elliot, M.D. 
Specializing in the following: 
• RADIO-FREQUENCY REMOVAL OF SKIN LESIONS (No Scalpel-No Scar) 
• Multi-Test Allergy Testing 
•SNORE NO MORE Intra-Nasal Passage Reduction No Scalpel No Pain No More Snoring 
•Tattoo 
& Birthmark Removal 

• 
Hemorrhoid Treatment 

• 
Spider Vein-Varicose Vein 

• 
Carpal Tunnel Injection 

• 
Skin Diseases 

• 
Female Pattern Baldness 

•Heel 
Pain 


(219) 243-1172 Appointments Recommended 
53830 Generations Drive (Corner of Douglas & IN 23) 23 Medical Plaza South Bend, IN 46635 
Hours: Mon. thru Sat. 9-5 • Closed Thurs. 
weekend's festivities, a collo­the school. continued from page 1 quium was held on friday with "The building ·itself express­
speakers discussing various es a lot of what we're doingThomas Gordon Smith, chair­modern facets of architecture. here at the school. It shows man of the architecture There were also numerous the character of the school,department, the three exem­banquets and dinners honor­and so that is why its comple­
plified the kind of education in ing and celebrating the tion means so much to us architecture that the University's program. here," Smith said. 
Interested in applying for Judi~ial l:oun~il President for tLe '97-'98 a~ade...i~ year<f 
Applications are now 
available in the Student Governinent office and Inust 
be returned by Tuesday~ March 25 at 5 p.m. 
For more information, contact Ryan at 1-4553 


If you need to do some catching up or want to get a jump on fall, summer classes at Holy Cross College may be just the ticket. Choose one or both sessions, each offering a wide variety of qualicy general education courses. And pay our summer tuition 
rate of just $160 per credit hour. 
Take advantage of exceptionally small classes, a dedicated and caring faculty, and our convenient location just to the west of the 
University of Notre Dame campus. Credit earned is transferable. 
You'll enjoy summer activities even more, knowing that you're 

HOLY
also getting ahead in your studies. Write or call Holy Cross College today. Applications for Summer Sessions I and II, as well •"'4,!-.,• CROSS as for the 1997 Fall Semester, are now being accepted. it£ -~ COLLEGE 
Office of Admissions 
P.O. Box 308 • Notre Dame, IN 46556
Session 1-May 19 to June 26 
(219) 239-8400, ext. 22 • Fax (219) 233-7427
Session II -June 30 to August 7 
e-mail: hccadmis@gnn.com 
Monday, March 24, 1997 The Observer· CAMPUS NEWS page 5 
Campus Haircrafters makes life easier for SMC students 
By CAROLINE BLUM LeMans Hall. Senior Staff Writer Campus Ilaircrafters, a hair and nail salon conveniently Saint Mary's College stu­located behind LeMans' ven­
dents are finding relief from doland, provides services such the stress of academic life as tanning beds, pedicures, right in the basement of and video imaging for students 
~P<W~ 

iltRISH 
~CINCTEAM 
INFORMATIONAL MEETING 
TUESDAY, MARCH 25, 
7:00PM 

The Irish Racing Team is an ND student project that develops and competes an electrically powered Indy,style race car. We are looking for students from all majors. If you are interested in anything from producing videos to designing electronic systems, we can use your help. 
Contact Dr. Bill Berry@ }..6102 for more information. 
who don't have a lot of money to spend. 
"We try to accommodate our services according to the stu­dents' budgets," Campus Haircrafters master designer Joanne Haynes said. "We expand and create services for what they need." 
Haynes lists the expansion of the store's hours for tanning as an example of its flexibility. 
Before spring break, the salon was open extra hours in the evening and on Monday, when it's usually closed, for students heading southward. 
Recently, with the addition of an in-store nail technician on Wednesday afternoons, Haircrafters began providing pedicures for students looking to take a break from the stresses of college. 
"Students usually enjoy the stress reliever step of the pedi­cures the most," nail techni­cian Tina Ewing said. "The foot is ..a lifeline to every sec­tion of the body. The sections can all be relaxed by massag­ing a different part of the foot." 

The University of Notre Dame Department of Music presents 
New Music at Notre Dame Festival Chamber Recital 

works by George Crumb, Kurt Erickson, Steve Reich, Somei Satoh & Anton Webern 4 pm Annenberg Auditorium 


lecture by Guest composer Ingram Marshall Tuesday 4 pm Room 124 Crowley Hall 
Final Evening Gala Concert 

featuring several premiere performances Wednesday 8 pm Annenberg Auditorium Monday. March 24 to Wednesday. March 26 All events ore free and open to the public. 
Ewing begins her pedicures with a H)-minute "foot bath " where customers place thelr feet in a tub with bubbling water. Customers are then massaged with lotion before the actual pedicure. 
Senior Shari Matelski has found stress relief at Haircrafters in several of Haynes' conditioning treat­ments. 
"A few weeks ago Joanne (Haynes) did an Elixir treatment on my hair," she said. "Not only did I get to relax as she mas­saged the treatment into my head, but I ended up with much more healthy and shiny hair." 
According to Haynes, the Elixir is specially designed to treat hair that has taken a beat­ing from the sun or from color­ing. 
Please recycle The Observer 

WHAT CAN I DO WITH A DEGREE IN MATHEMATICS? 
A lot! The training and analytical skills acquired in studying mathematics are precisely what many companies and professional schools are looking for. 
Can you be more specific? What kind of jobs have recent Notre Dame mathematics graduates found? Two jobs that have been very popular with our recent graduates have been as actuaries in insurance companies and as computer programmers or sys­tems analysts in technology-related firms. Companies that have recently hired Notre Dame mathematics graduates include Aetna Life, Allstate, Arthur Andersen, CIGNA, Eastman Kodak, General Electric, General Mo­tors, Hughes Aircraft, IBM, McDonnell Douglas, DuPont, Morgan Stanley, Metropolitan Life, NCR, Prudential, The Travellers, and Xerox. 
That is an impressive list-but are these desirable jobs? The 1995 publication Jobs Rated Almanac rated Job classifications using the criteria of income, outlook, physical demands, security, stress, and work environment. The top six, out of 250 job classifications, were: actuary, soft­ware engineer, computer systems analyst, accountant, paralegal assistant, and mathematician. Four out of the top six jobs are in the mathematical sciences! 
What other areas have Notre Dame mathematics graduates gone into? 
Of course, not every mathematics major pursues a career in industry. Some have gone on to professional training in law, medicine, education, and busi­ness; others have done graduate work in computer science, statistics, oper­ations research and economics. 
They have pursued gr.aduate studies at plp,ces like Harvard, Princeton, Chicago, Oxford, and Berkeley. Many of these now teach at colleges and universities across the country. Others work at places like Bell Laborato­ries or at government agencies like the National Security Agency. In the last several years, three of our graduating majors received National Science Foundation fellowships for their doctoral work in mathematics and another received a Fullbright fellowship. 
What programs are offered by the Department of Mathematics? 
The Career Program in mathematics is a degree in the College of Science designed for students who want to use mathematics as a tool in science or in­dustry and emphasizes problem-solving while still providing a grounding in theory. In addition to the Career Program, we have designed mathematics programs with concentrations in the following areas: applied mathemat­ics, life science, education, engineering science, social science, computing, and business administration. It is also possible to pursue more than one concentration or even arrange a double major, like mathematics and, say, 
philosophy. We also offer an Honors Mathematics Program which can be completed either in the College of Science or in the College of Arts and Letters. This 
is a rigorous program aimed at students who thrive on challenge and enjoy mathematics for its own sake. We are confident our mathematics programs will provide you with a first­
class mathematical education and give you a good start on any one of a number of career directions. 
For more information come to our Spotlight Program Monday, March 24, 8-9 P.M. Room 127 Nieuwland Science Hall 
You may also make an appointment with Professor Dennis Snow, Director of Undergraduate Studies for the Department of Mathematics. Call the Mathematics Office at 631-7245 or write to snow .1@nd. edu. 
Monday, March 24, 1997
page 6 The Observer • NEWS 
Students shuttle to Logan dance Ara 
By BILL UNIOWSKI 
News Writer 
To bring Disability Awareness Week to a close and to foster more interaction between Notre Dame students and the disabled, the Logan Community Center, a South Bend center that works with dis­abled people of all ages, added shuttles from campus to its regular recreational dance on Friday night. 
According to Tim Silverberg, a long-time worker at the Logan Center, part of the purpose of the night was to "bring in more volun­teers to meet with our population and have fun." 
The Logan Center's recreational program has 10 dances throughout the year for their clients but added the shuttle to increase exposure to of the Logan Center as a facility, and how they want it to be consid­ered a community resource. 
According to volunteer Melvin Townsend, the disabled people at the center are very enthusiastic and energetic about the dances. 
"What they get out of it is what normal people get out of dances, " Townsend said. "They don't appear to know that they have a 
disability." 
As a volunteer seeing the clients enjoying themselves at the dance, Townsend said, "I get a joyful feel­ing, and I'm able to identify with people who have disabilities." 
Kristin Michel. a student volun­teer at the center, said that mixing Notre Dame students with the Logan clients at the dances works well, because "dancing is equal, 
"I came to help out a little instead of going out drinking," said Joseph Acayan, ''and to get more in touch with challenged people." 
Student volunteer Caly Nguyen hopes that activities such as the dance will educate students and change the atmosphere on campus. Nguyen believes that students do not associate with disabled stu­dents enough, although they have the same experiences. 
"People don't like to come ~nd volunteer because it's a burden, but if you start coming, you'll get something out of it," she said. 
Ryan added that people can come together and enjoy the music and each other's company. "We should focus on why we're alike instead of why we're different," he said. 

continued from page 1 
spokesman, the foundation has raised nearly $5 million in 2 1/2 years. 
The infusion of funds has enabled researchers at several institutions, including the National Institutes of Health and Columbia University to step up efforts to identify the gene responsible for Niemann-Pick Type C. 
Progress has been rapid, and scientists are expeeted to announce a discovery this spring. 
If you see news happening, call The Observer at 1·-5323 
students from campus.  and everyone can do it.  It's  
"We just want people to get to  just a lot of people having  
know the folks that Logan serves,"  fun."  
said Dan Ryan, the director of edu­ Some students used the  
cation at Logan and a Notre Dame  dance  as  a  chance to  try  
graduate.  something  new  for  the  

Ryan also reflected on the quality weekend. 

·---PPY 

21st Bay! 

DUQUESNE UNIVERSITY 

Transferable Credits Accelerated Sessions Start Dates May through July 
Register by fax, phone, mail or in person. 
Call 1 (800) 283-3853 
for our complete Summer 1997 

ml 
lnfocmation!Appk<tionPackage . .~ 
DuQUES\E UNIVERSilY • PmssuRGH, PA 15282 _DIJQUESNE Visit Duquesne on the Web: www.duq.edu lJNfvERSITY 

Economics Department 
~!Jfe~et Your Major~ 
:: ·"'~ <' :.~ ····V. !. ..... ~ 

•
sen1o.r 
•·ell" 
TOD4~ II CL411 ELECTION D4~f 
Vote for your class officers and off,campus reps today from 11 a.m.-1 p.m. and 5-7 p.m. 
Vote in hall lobbies ortn• the Huddle 
---------------------------------------., 
It 

Monday, March 24, 1997 The Observer • INTERNATIONAL NEWS page 7 
• CoNGO 
U.S. troops prepare for possible Zaire evacuation 
By CANDICE HUGHES 
Associated Press Writer 
BRAZZAVILLE, Congo 
The first wave of a U.S. mili­tary task force moved cautious­ly into central Africa on Sunday, preparing for a possi­ble evacuation of Americans from Zairr. 
At midday, a huge C-17 trans­port plane that flew through the night from Aviano, Italy, dis­gorged a contingent of Army soldiers, along with supplies and equipment, onto Brazzaville's blistering tarmac. 
Brazzaville is just across the Zaire River from Kinshasa, the Zairian capital that some fear could erupt into violence as rebel troops advance through the country. which the French ambassador 
While the rebels are still far was killed. from Kinshasa, many fear a About 500 American civilians rampage by Zaire's poorly paid are in Zaire, including about soldiers if President Mobutu 320 in Kinshasa. There are also Sese Seko dies or the rebels an estimated 7,000 Europeans continue their advance. A coup in Kinshasa, including 3,000 is another possibility. Belgians and 1,000 French 
Kinshasa has suffered several nationals. outbreaks of rioting in the past The French have had a task few years, including one in force in Brazzaville for several 

r·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·· 
~OBSERVER 
is currently accepting applications for the following paid Saint Mary's News positions: 
Assistant Saint Mary's Editor: The Editor works directly with the Saint Mary's Editor in coordinating coverage on Saint Mary's campus, assists the News Editors with the daily story and photo content, and is responsible for a weekly Wednesday feature focusing on an aspect of Saint Mary's College. However, primary responsi­bility for the time being will be to regulate coverage of Saint Mary's sports. 
Saint Mary's News Editors: The two Editors work together to coordinate and supervise the daily content, accuracy, and publication of the Saint Mary's News section. They are responsible for developing and organizing the Saint Mary's staff, in addition to assigning stories and acting as a link between The Observer and the Saint Mary's Public Relations Office. 
Associate Saint Mary's News Editor: The Associate Saint Mary's News Editor is responsible for generating and developing daily story and photo content for Saint Mary's College, and will work closely with the Saint Mary's News Editors in coordinating communication between the Saint Mary's and Notre Dame News depart­ments. The Associate News Editor is responsible for train­ing Saint Mary's Copy Editors and Assistant News Editors newly hired by the Saint Mary's Editor, and evaluates, edits, and instructs reporters on story content and style. 
Assistant Saint Mary's News Editor: The Assistant Saint Mary's News Editor works with the Associate News Editor in developing the Saint Mary's con­tent of the paper, but is primarily responsible for contacting the various College department heads on a weekly basis to assure that departmental happenings on campus are being covered. The Assistant Saint Mary's News Editor will also regulate the weekly beats in accordance with the Saint Mary's News Editor. The Editor evaluates, edits, and instructs reporters on story content and style. 
l..f.ep~a!i~ ~~q~e!!_o~s~o~~~ ~~t~o. L.2!.i ~!!!_n .a:!3.1~~0:J 
weeks. A Belgian force was expected on Monday. A small advance team from Britain was also in place. 
U.S. military planners, who say they will coordinate with the other countries, are anxious to dispel any notions that the force will become embroiled in Zaire's five-month civil war. 
The size of the advance party was cut at the last minute to lower its profile. The first con­tingent consisted of 28 people. They joined an advance team of 20 to 30 that arrived last week. The force could eventually number several hundred. 
"We're trying to keep our 'footprint' small so the deploy­ment will be viewed as what it is: preparatory and not provocative," the commander of the task force, Maj. Gen. Edwin P. Smith, told The Associated Press en route to Brazzaville. 
Getting foreigners out of Kinshasa, a sprawling city of about 8 million, could be tricky. The only way across the river is by water or air. The most likely scenario would be a helicopter airlift to the Brazzaville airport, where the U.S. force is setting up. 
Smith said he expe~ted to have about 200 American sol­diers in Brazzaville within the next 48 hours and another 100 or so in Libreville, the capital of neighboring Gabon. Additional 
U.S. cargo planes were expect­ed later Sunday. 
The Americans who Oew in Sunday are from the Southern European Task Force and include personnel from several units. 

Cancer society urges mammograms at age 40 
By DANIEL Q. HANEY 
Associated Press Writer 
RESTON, Va. 
The American Cancer Society recommended Sunday that women begin annual mammograms at age 40, and the National Cancer Institute may soon reverse itself and adopt similar guidelines. 
Until now. the cancer society has urged_ mammograms every year or two to look for breast cancer for women jn their 40s. 
The changed recommenda­tion is intended to save lives and simplify the confusion surrounding mammography guidelines, Dr_ Myles P. Cunningham, the society's president, said Sunday. 
"We are confident that these guidelines will save lives," Cunningham said. "We think women need specific guid­ance, and if there is a benefit we should say so." 
Mammograms for younger women have become one of the most contentious issues in medicine, especially since the federal cancer institute said two months ago that it could not make sweeping recom­mendations for women under age 50. 
Since then, the institute has been under pressure from Congress to do just that, and it now appears to be on the verge of recommending mam­mograms for all women in their 40s. 
The society's board of direc­tors adopted the new guideline on Saturday and announced the change Sunday at a sci­ence writers conference spon­sored by the cancer society. 
The federal cancer institute 
and the privately funded can­
cer society are by far the most 
influential gcoups making rec­
ommend-ations about steps 
people should take to avoid 
and control cancer. 
Tlw debate over screening 
recommendations centers on 
whether mammograms truly 
save younger women's lives 
EMPLOYMENT IN AMERICA'S 
NATIONAL PARKS 
~ind out how to begin your job search 1n National Parks, Forests, and Wildlife Preserves. 
STRONG • FAST • CLEAN 

and whether the high number of false alarms they trigger is justified. 
Experts say that only about 15 percent of ominous results from mammograms of women in their 40s actually prove to be cancer. 
A report that pulled together the results of eight separate experiments concluded that breast cancer deaths among women in their 40s fall 18 percent if they have yearly mammograms. 
But some call this evidence weak since the survival advan­tage does not become clear until these women are in their 50s, when their cancers might have been picked up by later testing. 
Virtually all health profes­sionals agree that annual mammograms make sense for women over age 50, because they can spot tumors while they are still at a curable stage and cut breast cancer deaths by about 30 percent. 
Additionally, most agree that mammograms are unnecessary for women in their 30s. Also, it's unclear how helpful they are for women in their 40s. 
War victim gets belated funeral 
By ROBIN ESTRIN Associated Press Writer 
BOSTON 
Bella Hozental Grajman was killed 53 years ago in a Nazi camp.• On Sunday, she received the funeral service she never had. 
Stephan Hoss never knew his sister's fate. lie assumed she perished in a camp with the rest of his family: mother, father and five other siblings. 
But he wanted to know for sure and turned to a tracing ser­vice run by the American Red Cross for lu~lp. 
After sifting through the docu­ments kept in Arolsen, Germany, they found the truth: Bella Grajman -wife, sister, daughter and mother of two girls -died in December 1943 in a Nazi camp in Buclzin, Poland, although Hoss cloesn't know precisely how she died. She was 35. 
"Each time you find out another chapter to clark history, it's even more painful," Ross said at the service he held near the New England Holocaust Memorial. His wife, two children and friends were by his side. 
Rabbi Mark Sokol! read two poems written by children imprisoned by the Nazis and recited the traditional Jewish mourner's prayer. 

Ross, 65, who changed his name from Hoznntal, never got the ehanee to know Bella very well. She was nearly 25 ynars older than he. 
But he has fond memories of the prntty, nnergetic woman who loved to act in local plays. 
The Hed Cross launched the ll.olocaust and War Victims Tracing and Information Program in 1990 after the Sovint Union released thou­sands of pages of Nazi "death books"' and other original German documents. 
_It was the largest souren of information available since tlw end of World War II and it enabled the Hed Cross to establish its tracing center. 
Since its inception, the pro­gram has conl'irmnd 1,065 deaths and 2,42R eamp intern­ments, said Renita Hosler, 
spokeswoman  for  tlw  
American  Red  Cross  of  
Massachusetts Bay.  


Happy 
21st 
Birthday 
ucl~yz''
., ., ,., 
iif •~• twf George, Queenie, 
&Zi PV 

EXCLUSIVELY for FACULTY and STAFF 

UNFORTUNATELY, THIS IS WHERE PEOPLE ARE PUTTING TOO MANY RETIREMENT DOLLARS. 
E
very yt>ar·, a lot of people make a huge mi~take on sill!~e eantings on your SHAs an~ tax deferred, your money their taxes. They win1l up sewling Unele Sam money works evtm harder for you. they could he saving for n~tin~ment. -What dse do SRAs offt~r·? The investment choice, f1exi­
Fortunately, that's a mistake you ean avoid with hility, and exper·tise of TIAA-CHEF-Ameriea's fon~most SRAs-tax-deft~rre1l annuitit~s fnun TIAA-CHEF. SHAs n~tin~nwnt m·ganization. not only ease your emTent tax hite, tlwy offpJ" an easy \Vhy wr·itl:' off the ehanee fm· a mor·e rewarding ,-etire­way to hnil1l retirement pension anti Soeial Seeul"ity bene­nwnt'! Stop hy your henefits offiee or call us at fits may not cover. Beeause yom· contJ·ihutions are matlt~ l-800-84.2-2888 aiHI find out how TIAA-CREF SHAs f'an in hefon~-tax dollm·s, you pay lt>ss in taxes now. And lwlp you enjoy many happy n~tums. 
Visit us on the lnter·net at www.tiaa-c1·ef.org 

Ensuring the future 
. ~ 

for those who shape 11. 


CHEF c·c·rtific·att~s are di!oitrihutetll.y TIAA-CHEF lndi\·iclual und ln!-ititutional Sc·rvin~s. hH'. Fnr mon t•omplt'lt• infunnatiuu iru·huling c·ll'lrgt>!; aiHI P.XJH'IHit" · c·ull 1-80.0-842-27:~3. c•xlc~nsiun 5509, fm· u t'IIITt'nt CHEF pruspc~ctns. Hc•ucltlw prnspt•t•lul'i c·ur·c·fully In·fore you invc·st m· sc•n:l nwnry. Dat:· of first 11~ 1·: 2/97~· 
9~------------------------------------------------------------------------_J 


t 



VIEWPOINT 
Monday, March 24, ~ 997 page 9 

THE OBSERVER 
NoTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O.. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (21 9) 631-7471 SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1997-98 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief 
Brad Prendergast 

Managing Editor Business Manager 
Jamie Heisler Tom Roland 
Assistant Managing Editor 

Maureen Hurley News Editor ............................ Hearher Cocks Advenising Manager....... .. ......... Jed Peters Viewpoint Editor.... ..Dan Cichalski Ad Design Manager....... . ....... Wendy Klare Sports Editor ............................... Mike Day Production Manager ........................ Mark DeBoy 
Accent Editor... ...Joey Crawford Systems Manager ...................... Michael Brouillet 
Saint Mary's Editor ....................... Lori Allen 
Photo Editor . . .. Katie Kroener 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. lr does nor necessarily reflecr the policies of the adminisrration ofeither insrinnion. Th~ news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of rhe Edimr-in-Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Sports Editor, Accent Editor, Saint Mary's Editor, Photo Editor, and Associate News Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Columns present rhe views of the aurhors, and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. Viewpoim space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's community and to all readers. The free expression of varying opinions through lerrers is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 
Editor-in-Chief 631-4542 Business Office 631-5313 Managing Ediror/Viewpo.lnt 631-4541 Advertising 631-6900/8840 News/Photo 631-5323 Systems 631-8839 Sports 631-4543 Office Manager 631-7471 Accent/Saint Mary's 631-4540 Fax 631-6927 Day Editor/Production 631-5303 Viewpoint E-Mail Viewpoint.! @nd.edu General Information 631-7471 Ad E-Mail observer@darwin.cc.nd.edu 
• WINTER OF MY DISCONTENT 
Arts and Letters students ask 'What Now?' 
Last week while driving around South Bend. I was listening to one of those panel discussion shows on National Public Radio. On this given day, the NPR talking heads were debating trends in higher education and, of considerable interest to me. the "real world" prospects for the Class of 1997. Despite my limited atten-

Chris Kratovil 
tion span and almost Pavlovian tendency to flip radio stations, I remained tuned in as the host painted a picture of a college system that divides its students between three radically different tracks. 
Looking back on my Notre Dame col­lege experience it docs not seem true that college students follow one of the three basic paths: there are the technical spe­cialist (or "gear heads") who are in col­lege to study very specific scientific/math­ematical material that explicitly applies to a trade -engineering being the most obvious example; then there are business majors who are being trained not so much for a specific job but to think and operate in the corporate culture; and then there are the poor souls such as myself in the liberal arts who are learning to per­ceive the world through the analytic lens of their chosen acaQ.emic discipline. In other words, a student can approach col­lege as either a hi-tech sort of vocational school. the first step in infiltrating Corporate America or as a decidedly non­pragmatic intellectual journey with no specific end in mind other than to increase one's own knowledge. Clearly these categories represent broad general­izations, so if you are the one philosophy and accounting double major out there you can save your angry letter. But on the whole this NPR-derived classificatory system seems to capture the prevailing attitudes held towards college amongst, respectively, the techies, the Forbes crowd and would-be poets who populate Waddick's. 
Now obviously I'm a great believer in a liberal arts education; Notre Dame's rep­utation for a strong core curriculum is one of the things that attracted me to this University in the first place. I like the fact that ND refuses to graduate a culturally illiterate engineer. I admire whoever it was who decided to make even accoun­tants here take six hours of philosophy. I think it is a great thing that every fresh­man at this University is forced to learn how to write a decent English sentence. It warms my heart to flip through a DART book and not see any "technical writing" classes. And no, I don't mind the reci­procity factor either; despite my aversion to science I'm sure that I'm somehow a better, more complete person for having delved into the wonderful world of "Plants, Food and Society" three years ago. 
There is undeniable merit in acquiring a broad base of knowledge, and Notre Dame as an institution clearly subscribes to this ideal. I firmly believe that there is a correlation level between knowledge and personal fulfillment, regardless of whether that knowledge is ever put to any sort of "practical" workday applica­tion. In other words, I will defend the value of a liberal arts education against all corners, but as my days as an under­graduate grow few .I am also forced to admit thci1: an Arts and Letters degree by itself is simply not going to pay the bills. 
I suppose that is hardly a new or pro­found revelation, but it is rarely verbal­ized around these parts, probably because most of the people here -both administrators and students -so strong­ly believe in a liberal education that they are reticent to point out its obvious flaw -the "What Now?" factor. So as .the gear heads go off to build new, bigger and better bridges/airplanes/bombs/cars/ whatever and the would-be tycoons of COBA leave to supervise widget produc­tion and monitor cash flow, many of us in Arts and Letters are left with a vague sense of disease, a slightly hollow feeling and an inability to avoid that damned question: "What Now?" I suppose it feels a little bit like waking up the morning after hosting a roaring party; last night was great, and you're glad you had the bash, but now you've got a hell of a hang­over, and there's nothing left to do but start the tedious cleanup. 

It just doesn't seem right spending four years and $100,000 at one of the top uni­versities in the country and still be more or less unemployable. Of course that's again something of an exaggeration ­the occasional music major does mysteri­ously get hired by a big consulting firm and a skill-less government student like myself could possibly latch on with some obscure lobbying/advocacy group -but on the whole most liberal arts majors seem to have about the same employment prospects as O.J. Simpson. 
Of course there are options other than finding a job. You can continue your edu­cation within your chosen field and trans­form yourself from an unemployed bach­elor of arts to an unemployed master of arts. You can abandon the liberal arts all together and try to catch up with the COBA gang by pursuing a MBA or, as I've done, you can sentence yourself to the liv­ing hell of being a first year law student. But these options are not appealing to everyone and that's probably a healthy thing; if every Arts and Letters student in the country ultimately became either a lawyer or an MBA our society would probably be more screwed up than it already is. 
The reality of this situation is this: on one level college has to be viewed as an investment; almost nobody spends a hun­dred grand just for kicks. Parents scrimp and save to send their kids to a school like Notre Dame not so much to educate their child as to ensure them a better life. Sure, being educated is a factor in that "better life" formula but so are being able to find gainful employment and being a 
GARRY TRUDEAU
• DOONESBURV 

productive, self-sufficient member of soci­ety. So for someone taking on a moun­tain of debt to pay the ever increasing costs of college in a liberal arts education really a sound investment? Is a university education in a field like philosophy, soci­ology, theology, or the fine arts soon going to be the province exclusively of the wealthy? Are spiraling costs of attending a place like Notre Dame going to price the middle class out of certain fields of study? At the freshman parties of the future will people answer the ubiquitous "What's you're major?" query with "I wanted to be a history major, but I couldn't afford to so I'm studying finance"? 
I don't have any sort of comprehensive program to prevent this nightmare sce­nario that the NPR commentators were predicting, but it is something that 
. University officials need to be constantly cognizant of. To some extent financial constraints already factor into people's choice of major, but the situation is only going to become more pronounced as costs inevitably continue to rise. 
Perhaps to some extent rearranging University requirements could offset this nascent crisis. For example, many A&L majors have never taken a course outside of their college. Forcing philosophers to take some basic accounting in the same way in which accountants are forced to endure introductory philosophy should be considered. Replacing the freshman year calculus courses with a business math course or a statistics class could help. Some knowledge of computer applica­tions (CAPP) is one way to boost A&L majors' job prospects; scaling back the foreign language (9 hours) and science (6 hours) requirements and replacing them with mandatory CAPP courses should be considered. Making requirements a two­way street leading both into and out of the College of Arts and Letters might save many A&L students considerable angst at the end of their senior years. 
Chris Kratovil is a senior Arts and Letters major. His column appears every other Monday . 
• fiw:m: OF THE DAY 
"Riches and power are but gifts of blind fate, whereas goodness is the result of one's own merit." 
-Heloise 


'Liar, Liar,' ]im Carrey's on Fire! 
Liar, Liar Directed by: Tom Shadyac Starring: Jim Carrey 

(Four and a hair out or five shamrocks) 
By MARK TORMA Accent Movie Critic 

T
here's an unwritten, ironic rule for movie comedians: play it straight. This time, Jim Carrey is following the rules. 
The men and women who have domi­nated comedy throughout the 100 years of movie history have had at least one thing in common: the talent to pl&y the everyday guy or gal, the person we can 

all relate to. Think about them-Charlie Chaplin, Lucille Ball, Jack Lemmon, Jerry Lewis, even Billy Crystal. They never played freaks, or high society cut­ups, or even complete and utter losers. They played the people who could go home after a hard day's work, burn the 



Video Pick of the Week 
"SHALLOW GRAVE"(1994) 
By RYAN LYNCH Accent Movie Critic 

S 
orne movies are great simply for the philosophical questions that they engage. Steven Spielberg's "Jaws" became a mega-hit not because of superior acting or revolutionary spe­cial effects, but because it plays on one of humanity's most primal and inelim­inable fears -a fear that lurks in each of our minds as we glide into the ocean or dive into a murky lake. The fear is that some leviathan, some guardian of the dark and deep, may lash out at us in our vulnerability and stupidity to enter our reality through which he can explore the most dangerous questions of our existence. And, now I have a new movie to add to the canon. 
Director Danny Boyle's 1995 film, "Shallow Grave," is an arguably well­made Scottish film that whispers an eerie and unsettling thought-provoking question into the viewer's mind. This question is placed in the trough for our minds to feed on in the first lines of the movie, as David (Christopher Eccleston) ponders; 
"''m not afraid to declare my feelings. Take trust for instance, or friendship. These are the important things in· life, the things that matter, that help you on your way. If you can't trust your friends, well, what then? What then?" Trust of one's friends becomes the hot potato that is passed through our con-
TV dinners, lind out the dog was preg­nant-and make it all look funny. 
So it is that of the four and a half stars that I am giving to "Liar, Liar," four of them go to Jim Carrey. He does in this movie what some thought would be impossible for him: he plays a believable human being. Thank goodness -the world doesn't need any more demented cable guys, or idiots so stupid that their contrived names (Lloyd Christmas??) aren't even funny. Isn't it sad when the deepest character you've played lately is the Riddler? 
But I digress. In "Liar, Liar," a movie about a divorce lawyer/compulsive liar's epiphany, Carrey looks like a changed man himself. There's no more mugging for the camera, which in the last few years has elicited more groans than squeals from critics and audiences alike. This time, it's Can·ey's charaeter who tonds to hct up, and only for the sake of the othnr characters. It's all in keoping with the story: Carrcy's Fletcher Heed is a man whose lying alienates everyonn but his clients. A flamboyant per­sonality, both in his law offices and at home with his son, kcr,ps everyone at bay, until he misses his son's birthday and eovers it up with his usual deceit. The kid's been through this before, so he decides that his birthday wish is that Dear Dad will stay honest for one whole day. 
Whaddaya ya know? The wish comes true, and Voila! we have a gimmick. 
It's a gimmick that works. I ean't think of any other comedian working in movies today who could have dnlivnrod those lines as well as Jim Carrey did; not Crystal, not Hobin Williams, and cnrtain­
science as the movie progresses, but the twisted plot and gruesome images of the film give the investigation a frightening turn. 
"Shallow Grave" is the story of three roommates who are forced to test the limits of trust and friendship when the trio discovers .a suitcase full of money. In order to keep this money, however, the friends must dispose of the body of their new fourth roommate, who dies from a drug overdose after only two days in the apartment. Alnx (Ewan 



ly not anybody from the rt1eent years of Saturday Night Live. Eddie Murphy MIGHT bo able to come dose, but I know Carrey did him one better on the Jerry Lewis scale. Perhaps he took a cue from Murphy's "The Nutty Profnssor," but besides the arrogance, Carrny's Fletclwr Heed seems like a reprise of the roles that Lewis used to do. llis perfor­mance was dead on, too. I've read many . reviews comparing Carrey and Lewis before, and I've never seen the compari­son; I've always thought that mere slap-

stil:k dons not make a common bond. In "Liar, Liar," though, Carrey is a close cousin to Lewis, and so it's fair to say that those who aren't particularly fond of Jerry Lnwis movies won't be so kenn on this movin, either. 
Everyonn nlsn, for that matter, should heartily enjoy themselvos. Though Jim Carrey carries the movie, and he does it admirably (the weight of the project was !irmly upon his shoulders, and he nover droppod it onco, it seems), the writing crew deserves a lot of tho credit, too. Thnre weren't any of those down times, 
McGregor), Juliet (Kerry Fox), and David (Christopher Eccleston) begin the lilm as the closest of friends, but avarice and mistrust soon infect this bond. Much of the beauty of "Shallow Grave," however, lies in its suspense, and to divulge any more than this skeleton of the plot is to sap the !ilm's power. 
I entroat you to watch "Shallow Grave" with your roommates and dose friends in hopes of discussing the kernnl buried in the film's core-the essential­ity of trust and friendship. Absence of 
p10 at the Box Office 
I. Liar, Liar 

2. 
Selena 

3. 
Return of the Jedi 

4. 
Jungle 2 Jungle 

5. 
Private Parts 

6. 
Donnie Brasco 

7. 
Sling Blade 

8. 
love jones 


9. 
The Empire Strikes Back I0. (tie) The English Patient I0. (tie) Jerry Maguire 


Source: Associated Press 

those dead moments when the lines just ean't buy a laugh -I've come to .expect at least one or two of those in every comedy, even from the best writers, but them were none here. Even in w~ry con­ventional scenes, such as the partner­ship meeting when~ Flntdwr's forced to tell the partners what lw really thinks of them, the punchlines sparkle. 
If there was anything that brought the movie down to relative mediocrity, it was the supporting performances. Most of the cast consists of actors well known 
for their work on TV (Amanda Donohoe, from "L.A. Law," plays • Fletcher's cutthroat lawyer boss -not much of a dPparture there, and it sePms that the director didn't ask them to go out on a limb -tlwir pPr­fornwncns snnmed bntter suitPd to Must-SnP TV­Thursday. 
lronirally, that may havP bPen the kPv to Carn~y·s sucrPss in -this tilm-a rPturn to his TV grnatrwss. Evnryonn who nvnr watched "In Living Color" knows that his suJwrb timing and inci­sive rPjoinc!Prs WPrP tlw 
cornerstone of his sw:cnss on that show, and this is thn first time since ":\ce V1~ntura" that I've seen tlw samn srhtirk in his big-scrnnn performances. Granted, this time tlw witty comdJarks canw from a very unwilling charactt~r. and a regular guy at that (or as normal as a lawy1\r can lw, I gunss), but you know, I liked that. It fp)t good to sympa­thize with the guy who dishns out tlw abuse for a change. 
!\ feel-good Jiri1 Ca1:rny movie. 'v\'hat's this world coming to? Nnxt wnek: Slewn Snag<ll as "Bambi." 
those two virtues results in a dangerous and sickening solitude, a conclusion of thn movie. 
If you don't experinncr, this credo through director Danny Boyln's "Shallow Grave," simply place a suitcase tnllming with $100 bills in the middle of your room for you and your "friends" to share. 
I reeomm1md just rnnting the movie, bncause you may find yourself eerily answering the ques.tion, "If you can't trust your friends, woll, what then?" 
I. Last Man Standing 
2. 
Phenomenon 

3. 
Courage Under Fire 

4. 
Bulletproof 

5. 
The Fan 

6. 
Trainspotting 

7. 
Fargo 

8. 
Jack 

9. 
A Time to Kill I0. Kingpin 


Source: Billboard Online 
------------------~--------------------------~--­
Movie MoV\day 
Monday, March 24, 1997 page 11 
THE INNOCENT KILLER? 
SLING BLADE 

Directed by: Billy Bob Thornton Starring: Billy Bob Thornton and Dwight Yoakam 

!Four and a half out of nvP shamrocks) 

By COURTNEY VOELKER Accent Movie Criric 
W
ritten, dirnctml, and starring Oscar nomine(~ Billy Bob Thornton, the gnwsomcly titled "Sling Blade" tackles moral and safnty issues in a way 
boy who befriends the retarded man. Frank manages to convince his mother, Linda, to allow Karl to live with them. It is at the Wheatley house that Karl encounters Doyle Hargraves (country singer Dwight Yoakam), Linda's narrow-minded. abusive boyfriend. lie is one of the most putrid characters cap­tured in a film in yoars. Doyle's main goals in life seem to be consuming alcohol, insult­ing his friends, and complaining about his horrible life. Instead of helping his friends, girlfriend, and her son. he belit.tles them and drains tlwir confidence in a pitiful effort to boost his own ego. 
It is with Doyle that Karl's main issue arises: should hn stand by and allow Doyle to keep on abusing both Linda and Frank (who arc the family that Karl wanted, but never had). or should he step in and protect 

that causes vinwers to question their own beliefs. Thornton plays the lead character, a mildly retarded man named Karl Childers, who has been committed to an asylum after murdering two people -one of whom was his mother. 
After learning about his horrid upbringing by wildly religious parents (who believed that Karl was a punishment from God). the viewer becomes sadly aware that Karl thought his murderous act was the right 
thing to do. As a 
Viewers cannot
child, Karl came 
help but sympa­
honw one day and 
thize with this
found his mother 
man who,
having sex with 
although faced
the town bully. lie 
with adult issues,
killed them both 
is still mentally a
with a sling blade, 
child who wants
thinking honestly 
guidance, sup­
that he was saving 
port, and love. He
them from their 
is merely trying to
own sins. Now, 
do the right thing 
twenty-five years 
throughout the
later. Karl is being 
movie and to be
released to the 
kind to people,
world, against his 
which forces the
wishes. 
After being sent forth into society, Karl finds himself unsure of what to do or where to go. He wanders the town and eventually goes back to the asylum, asking the director if he can move back in. The head of the asylum. a caring man named Charles Bushman (.I.T. Walsh), decides to help Karl and get him a job at a repair shop. Karl proves himself to be an excellent mechanic, and the shop owner agrees to let him livr in the garage. Given thP necessities to survivP. Karl rontr.ntr.dly habitates therr for a fpw days, working and rnading his books. until a better offer is presented. 
At a laundromat in his sleepy southern town, Karl meets Frank Wheatley, a young them? There is an obvious parallel between Karl's abuse as a child in the past, and Frank's current abuse from Doyle. This similarity is what distresses Karl soo much, because he does not want Frank to have to suffer the way that he does. 
There is a first-class cast of actors in this movie that is successful in getting the audi­ence to feel emotion for the characters they portray. Billy Bob Thornton is exceptional at portraying "the murderer with good 
intentions." 
Photo courtesy Miramax VieWer to qU es­
tion his or her own beliefs. Another surprisingly powerful act­ing job is given by John Hitter, who portrays Linda's boss, Vaughan Cunningham, a gay man struggling to be accepted in a small southern town. Finally, Dwight Yoakam plays the sickening character of Doyle Hargraves with such power that it leaves viewers almost searching for a sling blade under their seats to throw at the screen. 
"Sling Blade" is an inspiring and heart­wrenching film that addresses complex issues. MoJ'l• than anything. it is an extrPnwly thought-provoking movie that le~tve~ th_e viewer questioning what they thmk IS nght and wrong...and who really is to say? 
• SOAP OPERA UPDATES 
General Hospital 
By GENEVIEVE MORRILL· Accell.t General Hospital Correspondent 
. Poor: Cady; ~he had a badweek. First Luke manhandles her into spy­mg on Katharme and s.tefan (please come home, Laura; Luke without you is psychopathic}. Then when she returns home and kisses Tony, Lucas freaks; so she's heartbroken. 
Alexis and Ned have dinner; she reveals that she know~ about little girls, and that Stefan oncethrewher into shark-infested waters. (Man, I thought MY family reunions were bad). Ned tells her not to hire Katharine; she's trouble arid a blackmailer (we know all about the Cassadin~ secrets}. Alexis reminds hitn that you can never leave a pow­e~ful famt}Y· They p~an to hang again, next ~me w!th heavy liquor. In Vmo Ventas. Alexis tells .Stefan that he IS losmg control where Katharine is concerned and this could affect the family. When she sees how stro~g his feelings are, she promises her support. Then she writes to her pen pal (maybe a daughter?). 
, Stefari breaks down the door to rescue Katharine· as he cradles her in. his ann:s, .sonny, Miranda, and Mike rush in to offer aid. Sonny and Miranda notice the undercurrents. and Katharine notices that Miranda doesn:t speak to Stefan. She then assumes there is heavy disapproval of the1r unholy alliance. Stefan notices Miranda and wants Alexis to investigate her. It rev~als nothing of her before the explosion. Miranda is later over at Sonny's telling him to accept that Brenda and Jax are together, but he merely smiles. He's telling everyone the cave is the reason he's all bruised and beaten up, but maybe Brenda injured him in her wild lust. 
Sonny's ready to chill and wait for Brenda to come to him. He tells Mike to keep mum, and Dad, pleased that Sonny will let him in the ~ouse, agi:ees. Mike goes. drinking to celebrate St. Patrick's Day (and hnd a lasste, perhaps?) Ftrst of all, haven't we all come to believe that Mike has no sex drive? I mean, the man has been on the show how lo~g. and he's only been on a few dates and exchanged flirtatious looks with Babe. Second, if HIS name is Corbin, why is Sonny's Corinthos? 
Sonny talks about Brenda's addiction, as well as Karen's and also heroin and its connection to Stone and Robin. lle refuses to ~ove drugs because he would be profiting from human misery, a mortal sin. I think he's finding religion and becoming quite the sage. Jason tells Sonny about AJ and the car, and if the Qs ever make a move, Jason will use that. Taggart comes over and mentions Deke. What's the tie? 
Nikolas goes over to Katharine's to teach her Tai Chi, and in the process, lets her "feel his energy." Hey, Nik, I'd sure like a piece of yo?r "e~ergy." Nik thinks she should get out more, prompting Stefan to of~er a JOb. She refuses, telling him to stay away. Later, she feels her th1gh move. Dr. Dorman makes a house call, but is skeptical. Miranda thinks she's met him before but can't place him. In an effort to be a good citizen, Dorman gives her his home number, in case she remem­bers ... 
Email Genevieve Morrill with YOUR GH comments at morr8584@saintmarys. edu 
Days of Our Lives 
By TRACY GORMAN and LYNN WONG A~:cent Days ofour Lives Correspondents 
. W~ll. the Austin/Carrie vs. Austin/Sami battle is still going on. Sami Is still paralyzed, and ~ustin still can't deal with the guilt of doing that to. her. So w?en ~arm ~eckons, he's at her side, putting Carrie at odds With the entire s1tuatmn. The blackmail evidence that Sami held against Kate is in high pursuit by Kate and Lucas. We think that sweet little Sami will suspect Carrie and Austin are having an affair. If only she knew ... 
Su:prise, Bo an.d Hope are still separated. Bo and Billie WEVe pre­tendmg that they re the happy couple. in order to protect Billie from Mr. King. Hope thought that they were back together and was devas­tated. by it. Fort?nately for Franco, this opens up another opportunity for lum to get With Fancy Face. Abe and Bo decide that Billie needs to join th~ witness prot_e~tionprogram to be out of harm's way. You won't be seemg much of Btlhe anymore, due to her real-life pregnancy. Does anyone else see a parallel between Bo and John's black leather/black jeans/anything black fetishes and their dilemmas with two beautiful women? Guys, take a hint. bring out the black! 
Now for the best storyline in Salem~ To recap, John Jr. (or is it Elvis?) entered the world to greet his loving extended family, Susan, Kristen and John.. Susan is obsessed with getting her baby back. Vivian and Ivan have come to rescue Kristin, and with them come all their wild an.t~cs. After finding out that she has to breast-feed the baby, Kristin deCid~s that Susan m.u~t stay in Salem a little longer. As she gets to Sus.an s apartment.. VlVlan and Ivan are trying to stick Susan with an anti-lactose producmg needle that Dr. Wu gave them. After Susan suc­cessfully defends herselfwith her·teddy.bear, Ivan gets stuck with the needle. Ivan·starts hallucinating that hehas bigger breasts than Billie or Hope could ever put in a tight shirt. He tries to trick Vivian into sleepingwith him, saying that it could cure him. But the Queen of Treachery.cap'tbe f()oled·thateasily. 
These loyal Days. fa~s almost stopp~d watching when Marlena did not tell John about Kr!sti~ ()r her o~n feelings for him. Marlena deserv(;)s anything that' cqming to her now, since she knows how 

. much h~ s~illloves he ·.·...·~ heardJ()hn waying after John Jr. made it t~ougll surgery, tal' ~bout hovy he doesn't want to break his mar­na~e vows. Though her love life may be crumbling, Doc has a new patient to take care of, and what a head case she is. Susan thinks Dr. Evans will be able to help her get her babv back. "Mama's coming Mama's coming, little Elvis." · ' 
,E-mail your Days feedback to: Rosalynn.J. Wong.26@nd.edu or 1rafy.A.Gorman.13@nd. edu 

-
page 12 The Observer • SPORTS Monday, March 24, 1997 
• WOMEN's BASKETBALL 

WOMEN'S BASKETBALL CHAMPIONSHIP 
First round Second round Regionals Second round First round 
MIDWEST WEST 
Stanford (1) (1) Connecticu\103-35 
-~~-~--~-~?.~~~~~-~:~:-~~--{:::~:::=:::=::::~~~~~~::~~~)
(1) Connecticut 72-53

(B) N.C. State 
Texas Tech. (8)(9)1owa 56-50 
(9) Iowa 

......~~~~~~~--.J~l 
Ulah (S)
IS~)~Du~k·~=J~~~l 1) c~~elc!~ut
(5) Duke 70-56
~ 

(4) IIUnois 85-67 141 1111 -'"-""n.;;.oic..s---,(4) IIHnois 23-7 
National Championship Cincinnati March 30 
NATIONAL (2) Colorado 69 9 CHAMPION 
Cincinnati Cincinnati
EAST MIDEAST 
(1) North Carolina March 28 March28 
...~~?..~-~-~!~!~~ ..J!)
~~-~i--~~~~~~-············-1!~L~~~!~.9.~~~!~~~ 1a-sJ . 
......................~!~~~.'X..!.~~)
···········~· ..····-·-·········.J J(1) North Carolina 81-71
(8) Michigan State ......................... OT 
Purdue (8) 
The Observer/Mike Ruma ::~:~i.:~:~:;~;.;~::::::::::J (a) Michig~~ Stat 75cj~ (5)Geo.Wash. 55-46 
---~-~~(~-~?.....~~)
Mollie Peirick will continue to lead the backcourt against GW today. (5) Geo.Wash. 
Clemson (5) 
~~-~L~~-~-~-~~-~!~.~~... .~(~2.~.':~~~~~:.~! ·;,;K?~.<?:.W.~~-~:.! 1-ti7 
~-~:g~~~~:.J!~l 
LSU (4) 
Mame {13)
Irish prepare for battle of 
Soulhern Cal. (6) 
San Franctsco (11) 
Flonda (3)
the 'Cinderella' stories 
Fla. Int. (14} 
Auburn (7)
By TIM SHERMAN George Washington. Senior Sports Writer The Colonials boost the formi­dable inside duo of center 
( ) seed 

A funny thing happened in Tajama Abraham and power for­
Saturday's East Region play. ward Noella Gomez. AP Make that two funny things. Both Abraham, a senior, and · guards will be crucial in estab­on the day. In the first game of the after­junior Gomez stand 6-foot-3 and lishing tempo. Besides her work from the
NCAA 
noon, fifth-seeded George have had great tournaments. Colonial Colleen McCrea runs outside Morgan crashed the Washington shocked top seed In the upset of the Tarheels, the show, dishing out almost six continued from page 20 glass for 13 defensive North Carolina to advance to the both scored 18 and combined for assists per contest. rebounds while McMillen regional final. 21 rebounds. For the Irish, senior point Rebounding was a big con­added six and Rosarine 
With the atmosphere of upsets They should match up well guard Jeaninne Augustin will be cern for McGraw as Bohman and Mollie Peirick already existing in the region, with the Irish pair of Katryna responsble for the hard push and Alabama came in averaging had five a piece. sixth-seeded Notre Dame only Gaither and Rosanne Bohman. getting the ball in the hands of 11 .more boards then their "We worked together and added to the fun, as the Irish Gaither, an honorable mention shooter like Morgan and Sheila opponents. got the hard rebounds," topped the second-seeded All-American, will provide the McMillen. The Tide's rebounding in Gaither said. "We just kept Crimson Tide of Alabama. Irish with the inside game to McMillen has come off the the first half gave them a our heads up and played 
Now, there is certain to be a complement Morgan's torrid out­bench in the last two games to nine point lead at half as hard."
-"Cinderella" in next weekend's side game, while Bohman is a provide a big boost from the out­they shot just 35 percent "We stayed strong and Final Four. The only question is gritty role player who can bang side. She is a prime example of from the field but their work stayed with it for 40 min­what squad will be wearing the with almost anybody. just how confidently the Irish are in the paint gave them utes," Morgan said. glass slipper. With the solid inside game, GW playing. numerous second chance The Irish are flying high as With Beth Morgan on an controlled the tempo against the So far, the combination of con­opportunities. they have now knocked of absolute tear, much of Notre fast-paced UNC squad and frus­fidence and Morgan has been McGraw's squad came out the third seeded squad from Dame's point production thus far trated them. enough. Can it carry the Irish to of the locker room with, its Texas in a nailbiter 86-83 in the NCAA tournament has The tendency of Muffet the Final Four in Cincinnati? focus on rebounding as it got and the second seeded been from the outside. But it has McGraw's Irish club is to play a The answer will come this after­Alabama off the boards and Crimson Tide in what turned been quite the opposite for more up-tempo game so the noon at 4:30 on ESPN. out rebounded them 47-37 into a bit of a blowout. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. 
Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
Classifieds 

NOTICES THE COPY SHOP LaFortune Studenl Center  FRIENDS OR SIBLINGS GRADUATING? WORK CATERING FOR GRADUATION! • FREE ROOM/BOARD  Summer Girl Needed -Chicago North Suburbs. Live in and help care for 3,5.1 0, and 14 year olds. Non-smoker with drivers license. Salary plus room and board. Interested person call 847-295­ Furnished upstairs apartment avail­able to subled for summer. College Park Condominiums-washer/dryer/air conditioning/dish washer. Call4-0745. GREAT OFFER YOU CAN'T REFUSE! I!  NEED ND GRAD. TIX. PLEASE CALL 272-3753 AFTER 5 PM. OR LV. MESSAGE ANYTIME. Do you have an extra TICKET(s) for GRADUATION? (will pay!) Please  Losllstolen-computer disk with label "MARKETING CLUB" plus olher papers-Wedneday 3/19. If lound please call Jen @ 243-9019 or 1-9330-importanl!  
Phone 631-COPY  • $6.75 PER HOUR  3493.  call Paige @ 4011  ***HAPPY 22nd BIRTHDAY TO  
..._  Mon.: 7:30a.m. -Midnight Tues.: 7:30a.m.-Midnight Wed.: 7:30a.m.-Midnight Thur.: 7:30 a.m. -Midnight Fri.: 7:30a.m. -7:00p.m. Sal.: Noon-6:00p.m. Sun.: Noon-Midnight Open Early, Late, & Weekends ILOST &FOUND I LOST: Brown leather portfolio with  MAY 10-18 HOUSING DEADLINE 4/3/97 SIGN UP: M-FRI 10:00-5:00 CATERING EMPLOYMENT OFFICE SDH LOWER LEVEL 631-5449 ALASKA SUMMER EMPLOYMENT -Fishing lnduslry. Learn how sludents can earn up lo  Wanted: part-time customer service representative at publishing compa­ny. Responsibilities include han­dling orders (by mail and phone), fil­ing, changes of address in add ilion to subscription files maintenance and other clerical lasks as needed. Good phone and typing skills required. Flexible hours. For an inlerview call Denise al Blue & Gold Illustrated, 255-9800 belween 10-4.  POTATO HOUSE 8 BEDROOM FOR NEXT SCHOOL YEAR 2773097 N~EHOMESNORTHOFNDFOR NEXT SCHOOL YEAR 2773097 5 BDRMS IN HOME-close lo cam­-pus. Safe neighborhood. Use of all ulilities & kilchen privileges. $225/mo. 232-2794 -Paul  PERSONAL Electrolysis by Rebecca Blend Melhod 674-6933 FAX IT FAST!!! Sending & Receiving al THE COPY SHOP LaFortune Sludent Center Our Fax# (219) 631-FAX1  SARAH JANE TEITGEN!**• Hmm, so Sarah, wanna do one more lhis year. lel"s move it up lo 28? Happy b-day! Another Gambler bites the dust, leaving the wonderful age of 21. boy are we getting old quickly! To lhe girls in lhe Padre Geriatric Cenler: 10. Ave, do me next.  
my name written in gold on lhe cover. Exlremely important infor­mation inside. I really need it! Please call Tara at 4-1291  $2,850/mo + benefils (room & board). Call Alaska Information Services: 206-971-3514, xA55841.  Paid Record Label lnlernship: Red Ani seeks markeling reps in South  FOR SALE FREE Phone Card. No restrictions,  FAX IT FAST!!! BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY 219-291-7153  9. Okay guys, T.O. 8. Jen, we've mel your slalker. 7. I jusl felt the*#@($% couch move.  
LOST/STOLEN: computer disk with label '"Marketing Club" plus some various papers. Possibly in Library on Wednesday 3/19. Please call Jen@ 243-9019 or 1-9330-very important! LOST: Siring of pearls and a cross between Hesburgh Library and the Basilica of lhe Sacred Heart. Call Dolores at 1-5729 or 234-7287. WANTED SUMMER JOBS ALL LAND/WATER SPORTS PRESTIGE CHIDREN"S CAMPS ADIRONDACK MOUNTAINS NEAR LAKE PLACID 1-800-786-8373  ALASKA EMPLOYMENT-Earn up to $3,000-$6,000+/mo. in fisherieis, parks, resorts. Airfare! Food/Lodging! Get alllhe options. Call (919)918-7767, ext A154. CRUISE LINES HIRING -Earn up to $2,000+/mo. plus free world travel (Europe, Caribbean. etc.). No exp. necessary. (919)918-7767, ext C154. (Member, Better Business Bureau CARE Program.) NATIONAL PARKS HIRING-Plus Foresl, Beach Resorts, Ranches, Rafting Companies. Up to $12/hour. Nationwide openings. Call (919)918-7767, ext R154. I need an affordable place to stay this summer.  Bend who love all./rock music. 10­20hrs/wk. working w/record slores, lifeslyle stores, colleges, artists. Call Rob Ossorjo Toll Free 1-888­RED-ANTS. FOR RENT Near Campus · Homes for 97-98 232-2595 Furnished upslairs apartmenl avail­able lo sublet for summer. Washer/Dryer, wood floors, and dishwasher. College Park Condos. Call ASAP x-1291. 2 Bdrm College Park Condo avail­able for summer sublet. Call 243-9357  Nolhing to join. Nolhing lo lose, .19 min. in the U.S. SASE to : Free Phone Card. PO Box 1041. Logansport, IN 46947 DO YOU NEED HELP SURVIVING THESE ND WINTERS? LLBean down coat for sale-great con.d., men's S-this is the warmest coal you can find! will keep you warm on lhose walks to & from D2, D6, C1­great deal for $125! call Wendy @ 243 9430 MOVING OFF-CAMPUS NEXT YEAR? WE HAVE EVERYTHING FOR YOU!!! 2-bedroom appartment package for sale, including: two bedroom sets, dining room set, living room sel incJiuding TV and VCR, and kilchenware (including all appli­ances), etc ... Very good condition.  Need some info but don"l know where to turn? Call COUNSELINE Mon-Thurs from 4pm-12am al1-77931o hear professionally audiotaped male rials. See pg 3 of your ND/SMC phone-book for a list of tapes. Sponsored by lhe UCC and Psychology club. Let Counseline help you! Adoplion: A very loving, financially secure. well educaled young cou­pie, long to adopt your newborn. Close and caring exlended family. We offer a special life for your child. Expenses paid. Please call Sherri & Joe 1-800-378-6680. •••••••••cLASS OF '98 .........  6. Erin, this isn't a topless beach. 5. Burp tennis. Rowdy fan? No, just lhe ball girl. 4. Lel"s dip. Hey. this feels good ... need to puke. 3. Was lhe penos on the counter when Shane came in? 2. Hey, weren"l you the ones whislling at us? We have a sur­prise for you ... bare butt 1. Are you sure you're nol pooing when you do that? "People will come. Ray. They'll come to Iowa, for reasons they can­not even fathom." Aloha. I had a blasl, Holly. Thanks again. -Paul Baby B, M, & N-When I dip ..you dip ..we dip .. -J  
For more informalion call 272-5702  SEND LETTERS TO FRIENDS  Hey London babes-You know  

CRUISE & LAND TOUR EMPLOY- If you need a roommate or need  ABROAD. THE LAST CHANCE  who you are ...  
MENT -Discover how workers can earn up lo $2,000+/mo. on Cruise  someone to sublet your apartmenl, call Ryan (634-3323).  New 5 bedroom home, two bath, two car garage. Central air, dish- TICKETS  OF THE SEMESTER. DUE BY TUES. MARCH 26th AT 213  the cool flat...Leinster 34-6 ....  
Ships or up lo $5,000-$7,000/sum­mer in lhe Land Tour industry! Call  Need lo sublease your Turtle Creek  washer, disposal, fridge/icemaker, washer/dryer included.  NCAA FINAL4  LAFUN. ................,...........................  Keough Hall Singled Oul-If you want to dale a 'Roo, call for an  
Cruise Information Services: 800­ Apt. for Spring 98??  $1500/12 mo. lease. Call232-4527  2 Tix for Semi's & Finals  inlerview. Keough Week 1997.  
276-5407 Exl. C55846  Call Melissa@ 4-0740  or 683-5038.  in Indy. B/0 Chris 243-9025  Kudos lo you!  lnleresled? Call Steve at X0600.  


Monday, March 24, 1997 The Observer • SPORTS page 13 
• TENNIS ... 
19th ranked Irish overpower Cardinals with a 7-0 sweep 
By JIM ZALET A 
Sports Writer 
The Irish men's tennis team resumed play Saturday with a demolishing win over Ball State University 7-0. The Irish improve to 14-4. Ball State, ranked 70th, could not keep up with Notre Dame. On the day the Cardinals only won one set, which was at No. 5 singles. 
"Everyone is working hard and staying focused in prac­tiee," junior Eric Enloe com­mented before the match. "We have a lot of desire to succeed. We are very eager [to play our upcoming matr.hesr: Desire is exactly what the 19th ranked 
The Notre Dame African Students' Association 
proudly presents 


.....~~~.!:.APLENH "QUARTIER M 0 ZART" 
A Feature Film From Cameroon. 1992. 80 min. 
"Quarrier Mozart" is the story of 48 hours in the life of a working class neighborhood in Yaounde. It recounts the not very sentimental education of a young schoolgirl, "Queen of the hood," still proud of her virginity. In this sex farce, women's wisdom and "witchcraft" help them regain the balance of power in a sexist world. 
Followed by a Panel Discussion on 
'Pop Culture/Teenagers & Parents in the 1990's" 
Featuring: 

•Carla Mazzeo, Intern, University Counseling Center (Moderator)• •Guillaume Zounlome, PhD Candidate, Government Department• •Joseph Karanja, PhD Candidate, Andrews University• •Fatmata Ismail, MSA, College of Business Administration• •Denise Kirkowski, Senior, University of Notre Dame• •Kimberly Farrow, Sophomore, University ofNotre Dame• 
Wednesday, March 26 • 7:00PM • 155 DeBartolo 
http://www.nd.edu/ -ndasa 
Now reviewing '97 graduates resumes for 
those interested in pursuing a career in 
trading futures & options on the Chicago 
Board of Trade and the Chicago 
Mercantile Exchange. 
If you are: •Aggressive •Disciplined •Athletic 
•Strong Ba'ckground in Mathematics 
send resumes to: Norm Singer First Options of Chicago 30 South Wacker Dr. Suite 1105 Chicago, IL 60606 

Irish had on Saturday. They came out strong from the get go, winning all three singles matches. 
The No. 1 pair of junior Jakub Pietrowski and sophomore Brian Patterson defeated Bryan Smith and Kevin Donovan 8-4. The duo improves their record to 12-3. At No. 2 singles fresh­men Trent Miller and Ryan Sachire had a tough match with Dan Rheydt and Pat Vizzone. The Ball State pair came from behind to move the match into a tiebreaker, which Notre Dame won. 
The final set to finish in the doubles half of the meet ended 9-8. Senior Ryan Simme and junior Danny Rothschild put their opponents away quickly with a 8-2 victory. 
At No. 1 singles, Sachire, cur­
.rently ranked 43rd, faced off againist Ball State's Smith. "It will be a tough match. lie is one of the top three in the region," Sachire said Thursday. "I have to stay at the top of my game and compete real hard." It was a tough match and both players battled to hang on. Sachire, though, never trailed, winning 6-4, 6-3, but Smith was constantly at his heels. Smith had trouble at times returning the overpowering serves Sachire delivered. Both of these players will probably compete as individuals in the NCAA finals in ApriL 
Pietrowski defeated Hheydt at No. 2 singles 6-3, 6-3. Pietrowski had control from the opening serve. Rheydt would occasionally catch him off guard, but Pietrowski would bounce right back. Pietrowski moves to 16-13. 
Simme came out string in No. 3 singles shocking Vizzone with an opening set of 6-0. Vizzone struck back though, winning his first game in the opening game of the second set. Simme though took control to win the second and final set 6-3. 
In the last set to end on Saturday, Patterson defeated J.D. Hall, 6-3, 6-3. Patterson had an early 4-1 lead in the sec­ond set, but Hall tried to make a comeback, winning two games in a role. Patterson's team­mates, watching from the observation deck, cheered him on to hold onto the lead and win the second set 6-3. 
At No. 5 singles, Rothschild won two of three sets to defeat Donovan. "I have to keep play­ing aggressive and make sure I don't give up," he said before the match. Lately he has been 
Chinese -American Restaurant and Cocktail Lounge 

Authentic Szechuan, Mandarin and Hunan Cuisine 
Lunches starting at ....$4.25 Dinners starting at ....$5.95 Banquet rooms available up to 200 

R£AT\YALL 
Bar and Restaurant open 7 days a week 
We give students a break! 
0* 


0 Off 

All Salon Services and Haircare Products Adult Haircut reg. $9.95 MasterO.rl:s ReGIS NE:l~S FRULMITCHELL. ~EBASTIAN 
MasterCuts 
fanjy haircutters

University Park Mall 
Great Haircuts. Great Prices.

277-3770 
Guaranteed. 

No double discounts. Valid for your entire family. Present coupon and student I. D. Expires --97. SX6 ..1 
~-----------------------------------------------------------­
tiring towards the end of his matches. 
"I have to keep playing until the match is over." 
He won the first set and Donovan struck back, winning the first three games in the sec­ond set and eventually the set itself. Hothschild, though, did not want to lose this match. He fired back almost like Donovan did to win the next three games and then the set 6-2. 
Enloe continued his strong play at the No. 6.J>pOt with a vic­tory over Juan Fernandez. He won 6-4, 6-3. "If we keep play­ing like we have in the past cou­ple of weeks, we should be okay," Enloe stated. 
In the first half of April the Irish will face three of their toughest opponents of the sea­son: Purdue, Northwestern, and Michigan. "They will be tough matches," Enloe said, "but if we play up to our ability we'II be okay." 
The 9-2 Wildcats will come into South Bend ready to play Notre Dame. "They will be real­ly fired up to play us. This is always a big match for they," Rothschild said. "They are a very dangerous team." 

-. • BASEBALL 
f 
Losing streak continues as Irish drop three to Pirates 
By BRIAN REINTHALER for the worse as the day pro­Sports Writer ceeded. In the nightcap of Staurday's doubleheader, Irish 
The Irish travelled to the east bats went silent against Pirate coast to open their Big East ace Jason Grilli. The junior schedule, and the Pirates of righthander mowed down nine Seton Hall sent Notre Dame's hitters on strikes and recorded record tumbling to 9-11 and 0-a complete game shutout in the 3 in the conference with a 16-0 Seton Hall win. three-game sweep this week­Notre Dame did find some 
end. pop in its bats yesterday, but it 
In the first game of a double­was not enough to overcome header on Saturday, senior· another offensive onslaught Darin Schmalz took the mound from its Big East counterpart. in hopes of starting the confer­Irish highlights included three ence season with a bang. RBis each from designated hit­However, the loudest bang ter Jeff Wagner and leftfielder came from the bat of Pirate Allen Greene, and a four-hit 
David Kim as he belted a three­performance from third base­run homer in the third inning to man J.J. Brock, which included erase a 4-1 Notre Dame lead. a triple and three singles. The Pirates would go on to take Kim led the Seton Hall attack the contest by a score of 5-4. once again as the Pirates put 
Kim's shot was the first home up another 16 runs to over­run given up by Schmalz in his come a 10-run game from last 110 innings of work. The Notre Dame. The rightfielder Irish righthander had a very recorded his second home run uncharacteristic outing, allow­of the series, along with two ing eight hits, a walk, and four other hits, four RBis, and six earned runs over six innings. runs scored. Junior catcher Schmalz also fanned two Seton Dan Hummel was also impres­
Hall batters. sive at the plate, as he went 
Things actually took a turn four for five with two RBis. 
Another Guinness., Please For I<.:..evin Brown! 
'~ 
~ve, ~tn. CJ)ad, ~sten &9itn 
~ ~OBSERV 



soasERvc 
is now accepting applications for: 
/A100000@000 ~@0000 ~@[J~ 00 ~~0[?00 ~~000[?. 
No experience required. If interested, contact Mike Day at 1-4543 or stop by 314 La Fortune. 
~ IHie eiP§ 
.••'• SHOOT OUT 
Tues~ay, March 25, 7:00 PM Jd;yce Center Arena 
• Games to 15 Points 
• Single Elimination THREE POINT & FREE THROW CONTEST 
• 
Head to Head Competition 

• 
45 Second Shooting Period 


• Double Elimination 
Register in Advance at RecSports Deadline: Monday, March 24 No Charge 
The Irish, who have now Michigan. Two more home Notre Dame will resume its dropped five in a row, will try games will follow on Big East schedule next·week­to turn things around as they Wednesday and Thursday end as the team plays road play their official home-opener aginst Northeastern Illinois and doubleheaders versus tomorrow against Western Central Michigan respectively. Connecticut and St. John's. 

ALUMNI
1&1 
SENIOR 

::z:: 
1­
The William and Katherine Devers Proaram in Dante Studies in conjunction with the Medieval Institute presents: 
BEFORE & AFTER Tll~OK: 

Department ofSpecial Collections, 102 Hesburgh Library A reception will follow the lecture; all are welcome. For further information contact the Devers Program in Dante Studies at 631-5610. 
--~~­
Monday,March 24, 1997 The Observer· SPORTS page 15 
Insight 
continued from page 20 
orange. 
Head coach Muffet McGraw needed a couple of big shots. Sheila McMillen and Beth Morgan drained back to back threes to take the lead and they never looked back. 
Fast forward to yesterday's regional semi-final contest against the seventh ranked team in America. the Alabama Crimson Tide. 

Arts and Letters Follow--Up Sessions to Major Fair 
TONIGHT! Monday, March 24,1997 ENGLISH DEPARTMENT 6:00 -8:00PM 108 O'Shaughnessy Hall HISTORY DEPARTMENT 7:00-8:00PM 116 O'Shaughnessy Hall ECONOMICS DEPARTMENT 7:00-9:00PM 208 O'Shaughnessy Hall CAPP (COMPUTER APPLICATIONS) 6:00-7:00PM 209 DeBartolo Hall 
Tomorrow, Tuesday, March 25 ALPP 5:00 -6:00PM .108 O'Shaugnessy Hall ROMANCE LANGUAGES & LITERATURE 5:00 -6:00PM 116 O'Shaugnessy Hall 

l'he Donald and Marilyn Keough Center for Irish Studies 
is delighted to announce its courses for Fali, 1997 
COIG 101: COIG 103: 
ENGL372A. ENGL470G: ENGL471C: ENGL478C: ENGL559: 
GOVT 451: GOVT452: 
HIST 235: HIST 326: HIST 333/333A 

Things looked even worse. Alabama, up by nine, appeared to have the game under control. but again the Irish simply refused to allow their season to end. 
Again they needed a couple of big shots, and again Beth Morgan was there with the answer. ller three straight treys made it a whole new ballgame. 
But, the Irish weren't done with their run. Katryna Gaither drained two free throws to pull them within one and McMillen hit two more threes to give Notre Dame a five point lead and igniting a 22-0 run paving the way to the Elite Eight, on the doorstep of 
. the Final Four. · Their two superstars. Morgan and Gaither, have given opposing coaches and players more than they could handle. Morgan's encore to her 29 point performance in Austin was a career high 36 point, 13 rebound night in South Carolina. Gaither, despite being swarmed by dou­ble and triple teams, has been too quick, too physical, and just too damn good in the post. She has poured in 55 points the last two contests. · However, Morgan and Gaither have not been alone in their remarkable, clutch per­formances. The combination of four seniors and the younger players stepping up when needed has developed a team chemistry that few teams can counter. Alabama had more athletes, but the squad that only dress­es nine, which includes the team's manager, had more character. Whether it be Rosanne Bohman's six-for-six perfor­mance from the field with all the Longhorn attention drawn to Gaither or whether it's Mollie Peirick's career high of 11 assists, whenever they have needed a big play, they've got­ten one. For the seniors, each year has been an improvement 
from their previous campaign. Last year they tied the mark of 23 wins but this year they have shattered the mark with 30 wins, and counting. 
Last year, they won their first NCAA tournament game. Now each game they win is a first for the program. Their first second round win, their first Sweet Sixteen win, and their first trip to the Elite Eight. 
Head coach Muffet McGraw an-d her coaching staff has got­ten exactly what every coach wants -their team to peak at the end of the year in NCAA tournament play. Right now the Irish are playing their best basketball of the year, and the best ball of the program. 
Their last two games have been ridiculous and amazing. Whenever an opponent has thought it had an edge on them, Morgan, McMillen, Gaither or Bohman or some­one else has come up with an answer to everything their opponents have thrown at them. 
Despite their mJuries, despite the extra minutes that each starter has to play, despite being the underdogs, they have a feeling that they will come out on top when the final buzzer sounds. 
Their confidence is soaring, their shots are falling, and it looks like they're going to keep on traveling on down the Road to the Final Four. 
Beginning Irish I Intcnncdiatt~ Irish 

Literature in a Divided Irel[md Irish and Scottish Literature: 1782-1820 Politics & the Revival: Irish Lit. 1890-1930 Beckett and Irish Drama Burke and the Idea of Revolution, 1790-1797 
Northern Ireland: Historical Roots Women in Politics 
Irish American Experience Irish History I British History, 1660-1832 MWF 9:35-10:25 MWF 10:40-11:30 

MWF 12:50-1:40 MW 8:00-9:15 P.M. MW 3:000-4:15 TH 2:00-3:15 T 7:30-10:00 P.M. 
MW 11:45-1:00 MW 4:30-5:45 
MW 11:45-12:35 MWF 9:35-10:25 MWF 1:55-2:45 Peter McQuillan 
Peter McQuillan 
Kathleen HohenleiUler John Waters Seamus Deane James Robinson Seamus Deane 
Margaret O'Callaghan Margaret O'Callaghan 
Jay Dolan Jim Smyth Jim Smyth 
( 400-leve/ and 500-/eve/ ENGL courses are "by permission" for non-majors; History 235 is for soplwmores only) 
For information about the Irish Studies Concenti·ation please contact Department uf English (1-7226) 356 O'Shaughnessy Hall 
or visit the Undergraduate Studies Office (1-8636) 101 O'Shaughnessy Hall 




page 16 The Observer • SPORTS Monday, March 24, 1997 
-
~~--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~-­
.WOMEN's LACROSSE 

Irish dominate in first home game 
By FRED CHIU rally. Not only was the offensive and WRANGLER WHITMAN One of the many stars of the play of Notre Dame spectacu­Sports Writers game was captain Mara Grace, lar. but the Irish defense, led by who scored once and sparked goalie Catherine Simmons' five 
On an overcast day at many·of the offensive attacks. first-half saves, kept Denver's Edward W. Moose Krause "It was nerve-wracking at the offensive attack in check. Stadium on Friday, the beginning of our first home Megan Schmitt and Debbie women's Irish lacrosse team game," said Grace. "But it is Prisinzano also helped the Irish shined in its first home game as such a special feeling to win at defensive cause with strong a varsity team. home and play for Notre games. 
Led by a quick 7-0 start and Dame." "One of the goals our team Cara Buchanan's first-half hat Coach Tracy Coyne, elated set at the beginning of the sea­trick, the Irish dominated in the about the win. thought one of son was to win our first home first half and went on to win the many keys to victory was game, and we are very excited 
15-4 over Denver. Kerry the quick start by the Irish to have accomplished this feat," Callahan began the scoring offense. Although happy about said Prisinzano. spree 33 seconds into the the win, Coyne believes there is The Notre Dame women's game, and captain Eileen still room for improvement in lacrosse team continues its Regan scored 24 seconds later today's game against national home stand with a game and the Irish never looked powerhouse Stanford at home. against Stanford. today at 4 back. "The passing combinations p.m. at Moose Krause Stadium. 
Erin Keating finally stopped were excellent," said Coyne. The Irish were very happy with the bleeding for Denver, scor­"But they did not always result the fan turnout on Friday ing 18 minutes into the first in scoring." against Denver. half, cutting the Irish lead to 7-One of the reasons for this, Eileen Hegan said, "The fans 
1. But Kerry Callahan noted Coyne, was the excellent were great, and spurred us on The answered back for the Irish, play of Denver's goalie, who to a great victory." Captain Eileen Regan led the Irish to their first victory at home. 
stopping any hopes of a Denver made many great saves. 
week's loss," stated Keenan. season one game at a time,"
M.Lax 

"But Dartmouth lost a lot of said Owen. "We want to make players from last year;s team, the NCAA tournament, but continued from page 20 and they are not a top-20 we're not looking ahead. team this season." We're just going to pay atten­
"It was really great to get a 

"We're going to take this tion to what is directly ahead."
win, especially following last 

Celebrate a friend's birthday with a special Observer ad. 
Campus Ministry Internship 
Are you a graduating senior? Are you considering a career in ministry? Does the graduate school you are considering 
require hands on experience? 
Campus Ministry will be providing two graduate internships beginning in August, 1997. 
Applications are now available in the 
c. 
Badin Hall Campus Ministry office. 
Please contact Darrell Paulsen at 631-5242 or e-mail: Darrell.R.Paulsen.1 @nd.edu 
NOTRE_D.AA-fE GOLF COURSE 
Rockr1e l'V'Iemoria.l Student daily 9 hole rate $5 Add'l 9 $3 Student Club Rental $5 Call 63 1-6425 for Tee Times 
What will you do after graduation? 
Why not help us change lives? 
We care for young children who are abused, neglected, or HIV+. You can help. 
P.O. Box 66581 

Houston, TX 77266-6581 
Voice (713)529-0639


casa Fax (713)529-9179 
de esperonzo 
Applications accepted year 'round. Room/Board/Stipend/Health Insurance. CPR/First Aid certification and training provided. 

CCC: Attention all clubs: LAST CHANCE TO GET MONEY FOR NEXT YEAR!!! You must meet with a CCC rep by Thursday, March 27 in order to be eligible to receive funding. Lists are out­side our office at 206 LaFortune. Questions-call 1-4078. Student-Alumni Relations Group: Attention ALL STUDENTS: it's "BYOB Day!" Bring your own bananas to the SARG general meeting this Wednesday, March 26, at 7:00PM in the Montgomery Theatre in LaFortune and we will provide the ice­cream for some banana splits. Brought to you by the Notre Dame Student Alumni Relations Group. Recylin' Irish: Recyclin' Irish Adopt-A-Day Program. At least two volunteers from each of the following dorms are needed to help pick up and sort recyclables on their assigned days: PW­Monday, 3/24; St. Ed's-Tuesday, 3/25; Siegfried-Wednesday, 3/26; Sorin-Thursday, 3/27. Please contact your hall's environ­mental commissioner for more info, or call Cristin@ X4408 or Helga@ X3486. African Students' Association: African Film: "Quartier Mozart" from Cameroon, followed by a panel discussion on "Pop Culture/Parents of Teenagers in the 1990s", held on Wednesday March 26 at 7:00PM in 155 DeBartolo. Sponsored by ASA. 
Stop by our 2nd floor LaFortune office to see what the Club Council has to offer you and your organization! 


Monday, March 24, 1997 
The Observer· PAID ADVERTISEMENT Page 17 


tst Annual N.A.A.C.P. 

Image Awards Ceremony 
Best Male Athlete Best Female Athlete Senior Award Freshman Award Administrator A ward Community Service A ward Artisan ofthe Year Award 
Guests Peformances: Vi be, Voices ofFaith, Slice of Life, Troop ND, and many more... 
Monday March 24, 

~ \~J::.i~ ·at Washington Hall 7tl/tfle~~' 
Tickets on sale at the Lafortune Information Desk 

[)O~l T 1lCU 
o will follow in the path ofDave Kellett and Ed Leader as the next cartoonist for The Observer? Each of these candidates has his eyes set on being the next. And the decision is ·up to you. 
That's right: your vote will determine which comic strip appears in The Observer. 
In each issue this week and next week, a selection from each of the four comic strips will appear here. Next week, a ballot will be provided at the bottom of this page so that you can submit your vote for your favorite comic strip. 

THE LILYPAD JEREMIAH CONWAY 
···:\·:.::th:.:., 

The strip is about Ron, Pete, and everyone else's crazy lives here at ND. The Stars o' the Show: . . . . ....••.•...······.. . '"' 
Ron Is pretty delusional, and Pete tendst(.) b~ more sarye, ~s does Lissa when compared t(.) her roommate,<Jen. Ussa'is an engineer, and .)ert is .an archltecture r}l·~u, althOughthat may chanse. Cr~zy am is the demeo~ed · eight>or of Roo and P~e; he's pretty medtlll tiP· ·. · ·· 'rrbls liM 
:. . 1tllnd$ of Cltzy BiH on th& StJokstore 
lenny. a ·. · ~abla, ttws In Pete'$ fi*Jw. ~jL#.J,,. 
"RUN FOR THE BORDER" 99¢ DINNER 
Marett 25, 1997 6:()()-8:00 p.m. LaFortune Ballroom catered by... ~~~\~ Alf-you-can-eatll 

Questions, call 1-5136 



MEN ABouT CAMPUS  
Ill 7'11£. oF IN~L/... 11'11ENSE/. Y  'f'/?ltbtTJof'/ C>RAWI'I ANt:> HILARIOUS  ~~~T"---:=-:7"'""--:-:-::-~~--'~-~:;:=:~~  1 '1'1 Pfi.E TTY SUF?E 1T w~S -r/1£ LA'St (.0/'11C 5TRIP (  
COI"'IG  STAtPS  SUCH AS  
C,\EAJ"' o' 'f"llfE v/fU,.£Y R'b) 7l!Jtl!t @C3~/i!RW!i.IR  

DAN SULLIVAN 
Men About Campus is essentially a comic strip about that -a guy's perspective about Notre Dame. It covers every­thing, including ND "dating," the dining hall, SYRs, football games, tlie leprechaun and the weather, Qrcourse, tne strip will contain women -as for tlie momenfthe guys are just moving into their new place. And like the ddtms, all campus comics have to contend with partetals, too. 
The comic strip also will address some of the politics of ND, such as the stance on gay and lesbian students, the ever-Increasing number of sports edifices on campus, along with the basic humor which a group of four unique men even­tually come up with. 

Sullivan 
,;!0r 

JOHN HLAVATY 
...-------------­
-~-----­

Monday, March 24, 1997 The Observer • TODAY page 19 
MIXED MEDIA JACK OHMAN YOUR HOROSCOPE JEANE DIXON 

MOTHER GOOSE & GRIMM 

BULLRU5H7  ISN'T HE  
e  THE  POLITICIAN  WHO  
~  WENT SNORKELING AND  

~ GOT KILLED BY A! SE.I\ TURTLE 1' 
~ 
48 Contract with a car dealer 49 Limerick; e.g. 50 Bic filler 51 Yegg 58 "We're number --!" 
59 Eskimo boat 60 Lariat's end &1 Neighbor of lsr. 
&2 Little finger &3 Soaked 
DOWN 
1 Quick way around town 2Thewhole shooting match 3 A.F.L.'s partner 4Gumshoe s Tied up &Supporting beam 7 "High priority!" a Supermodel Carol 

Puzzle by Fred Piscop 
9 Ruby or Sandra 30Homeless 

animal
-=::-t-=t=+:::=+=+=+:::-1 10 Unpredictable .E+::-R 11 Cyclotron 

32 Felt crummy 34 PeeWee of
~+'-'-~"'-'-~ 12 Rum cakes 

Ebbets Field 35 Yielded 37 Having one's 
marbles 38 Cake finisher 24Writer-­
40Advances 
Rogers St. 

41 Tribal healers 
Johns 

43 Western treaty~=+=+:+.:::-! 25 Exhausting task grp. -=+:::-+=+'="+=+:+.~ 26 Chooses 44 Sonny's ex ~=+=+=-=+=+=+~ 27 Chum, to a Brit 45 Advertising awards 
Wanted: Reporters, photographers and editors.
53 Five 57 Juan Carlos, smackeroos e.g. 

Join The Observer
Answers to any three clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420-5656 (75¢ per minute). 
Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 

staff. 
50 years: 1-888-7 -ACROSS. 

Intereste In serving as your orm's senator? 
We want motivated and thoughtful individuals, eager to represent, research and vocalize student opinion on all issues affecting student life. The new Student Union will work to achieve a unified student voice that produces results! 
All senator elections are held before April 1. Contact your hall govern1nent for election dates~ or Transitional Council at 1-7668 for more Senate information. 
-
SCOTT ADAMS 
THE'Y'RE FASTER 
I THINK WE.
THAN 
CAN WIN
TI-\E'< 
THIS
LOOK 

BAPI'Y BIRTHDAY! li'li THE '<EXT YEAR OF YOUR LIFE: Clinging to outmoded mel hods \\ill have a negative effect on husin~..:v., Look for ~han!:!es in the ,,-c:onolll\ and a tax rcfo~-m mcasu'T to pu.t extra money in your pocket~ Patc·il· ing up an old quarrel opens nc\\ career doors. Augusl will bring tile !"inancial backing for a husinc~~ t.:\­p~msion. A prof~s~iona! appcan.tnct.: \\ill he especially important in Sep· tember. Adhere 10 your company·, dress coue. Romance could take vou on the _journey ol your lik "i1ce 
llJ'!X ben ins' 
CE{EBRITIES BORN 0:\ THIS DA\: "ctor Norman Fell. au­I'L'"'·" Donna Pcscow. movie lc~cnd Steve tvlcC)ueen. famed escape ~rrlisl Harry floudin1 
ARIES !March 21-April l!.J1: Stop lhinking lila!-your love life 1.s dependent on yuur career succc~~­.-\n amhitiou~ l!ntcrprisc will suc­ceed if you arc willing !o put in ihe lmurs. 
TAURUS !April 20-Ma; ~Ill: You nov.· du ~omething that tutall\ <llllli/.C.) you! Wur"' on ~k:vdupin~ ·a rcccntly-discuvcrcd talcnt. Somct'IH.: luvcs you morc than you rcal11.c Clive them a chance. 
GEMINI iiVIav 21-.lune 2111 Steer clear of eariy morning dl~­agrccmcnh. An innovati\ e lllOllL'} 'chcmc receiq~~ llC\\ puhlic att~n­llon. Romantic "complication~ could ~1ri:-.c unlc.... ~ y1lll keep certain llll'L't­111!..!'\ ~~ .... ecret 
"C\~CER i.lunc ~ 1-.luil 221 \ ,klightful llt.'\\ aL·quaintancC briglll­t.'ll~ ytntr da~. ")·,,ur popuiarit: '\(lo.Jr'. Put .m 111\ltl\ aiJ\L' idea into practh.:t:. Yuu will profit Irom l"a..,t-mo\ 111g L'\ l'lll..., If\ llll "'li.IY alert. 
I.EO i.Juil 2.i-Aug. ~2): Sotncune \\ h\l tli'Ptl-.e..., )tlll prohahly doc:-.n·t lllll.kr..,tand VIlli!" mnti\·c:-.. t'l~lll· fh.::\11\l\l :Jilt! L<llllpnlllli'L' \\I[ I pi'L'\L'lll 
.1 llll'llildt.T'lillhlill!.!. \ 11\l'l"t!-L'l l.."lltdd 
mean e.\tra monc\. 
VIRGO (A~•g. 2_1-S,·pt. 22!: When you dcmon~tratc ht··\ benefi­cial •!'plan will he to your'' lies. they will join you# \\lith ent::usiasm. Pooled resources will im:,rove the bortom line. 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0c!. 221: Con­fronting an authority figure head-on would be a mistake. Instead. rally puhlic support for a prnposed chan~e. Go ahead and take a chance on ro~nance. You arc due ... umc good luck where love is concerned. ~ 
SCORPIO !Oct. 2.1-.\·n, 21 r Keep an open mind when dcal111g with fluctuatin2. career anU fiscal trends. An inve~tmcnt or tlina1i11n that feels right will have more up, than dnwns. People a! a dhtance ap­prove your ctlorts. 
SAGITTARIUS (Nm 22-Dec. 21 ): '(our liming is superb Com· plcte a fina.nci~~ tran~at:tiun as speedily as possil'\'\c You can lock in a great investment rate if you au quickly. Handle a promin~nt pcr~un with kid ~loves. 
CAI'RICORi'li 1Dec. 22-1:111 I'h Quality work and good lllPllC} man­agement skilb will npen the d'"''"' thai allow you !<> approach YIPs. Rev yourself up In step fon1 ard and perform. The piece' nf a romantic put.dc come together. 
AQl!ARIUS (Jan. 211-Feh. IX1: Pia\ mediator and yuu could hrin~ IW<; fricmb back !<>;ether. Set hd1c~· career ~oals lor \{~n· ....clr ")llll 1;~1\T mur~ t~tlent thari \Oll rc;.diiL·' You hcgin to f~.?el nH;re U'lllf,~rt.lhlc an~und a ne\\ hu~inc~s as..,tlLJ~IIL'. 
PISCES I1-'eh. I!.J-March 211 1· 1\•t ynursclf nn .the hack. Y"" arc han· d\ing your domc~tic re~pllJhlhditlt..'\ hrilliantly. Yuur 1<111111\ Clllllc' through a cri~1' in better .. h.1pe than } l)ll dreallled rP,"'Ihk r:rlL'Illl:-. applaud ynur l'll{nt Plan .1 'PL'L·I;tl treat ror a rncnd. 

CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 1 Desert plants &Swap 11 Stomach muscles, for short 14 Extraterrestrial 15 King or queen 1&Dosome soft-shoe 17 Big name in video rentals 19Kimono accessory 20 Musical partner of Crosby and Stills 21 Madison Avenue worker 23 Big monkeys 27 French artist Henri 29 Adjusts to fit 
30 Extreme cruelty 31 Religious 
factions 32 Top floor 33 Rainbow shape 3&Lodge 
members 37 Air raid alert 38Words of 
comprehension 39 Tiny bit, as of cream 40Asia's-­Peninsula 41 Bus station posting: Abbr. 42 Mickey of "National Velvet" 44 Word said to a photographer 45 Split with a hatchet 47 Scorched 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
-
SPORTS 
page 20 Monday, March 24, 1997 

• WOMEN'S BASKETBAll 
Setting their sights on Cincinnati 
" 

!1y. fifth seeded George "They went into a zone and IMorgan sparks Letting them fly was a good Washington today at 4:30 for just waited till the ball got • IRISH INSIGHT idea for Morgan as she canned the plane tickets to Cineinnati reversed to me," McMillen said. Irish revival in six of 10 from behind the arc and the Final Pour. "My eyes lit up when I saw Team basks in 
on her way to a career high Half way through tho second them go zone and luckily that87-71 victory and East Regional record 36 half the Crimson Tide simply first shot went in and the ball the glory of By JOE CAVATO points on a 13-for-22 shooting didn't know what hit them. got reversed to me again." Assistant Sports Ediror from the field and was perfect They were up by nine with 12 Gaither's free throws com­March Madness 
on four trips to the free throw minutes left and down by 20 bined with McMillen's best 
F
or the few elite basket­Stars shine at night, and line. with two minutes left. After Beth Morgan impersonation 
ball squads the month ofwhen it looked as if night was "It's frustrating when you Morgan's run, she took a rest began the Irish 22-0 run that March becomes a specialgoing to fall on the Notre Dame feel like it's out of control and on the bench but sophomore wiped the Tide out of tho game 
time. A

women's basketball season, its there's nothing you can do to guard Sheila McMillen picked and the Big Dance. Alabama 
t i m e Joe Cavato

brightest star shone through. stop it," Alabama head coach up right where the Irish cap­was held scoreless for six min­
where the Assistanr Sporrs Editor 
With the Irish down by nine Rick Moody said. "They took tain left off. utes and found themselves 
·-team playspoints and 13 minutes remain­the game away from us." "Beth hit three in a row and down by 20 with just under 
together and peaks which
ing in their regional semifinal Morgan's run sparked the then Sheila McMillen comes off three minutes remaining. 
translates into upset victoriesagainst Alabama and things Irish who then used a 22-0 run the bench and hits two against "That was the best 15 min­and perhaps a trip to the Finalrolling the Tide's way, All­to knock off the second seeded their zone and that was really utes we've played all year," Four.
American Beth Morgan went Alabama squad 87-71. The where we won the game," McGraw said. "We wanted to 
Something special is hap­
on a 9-0 run. Within a span of win pushes their mark to 30-6 McGraw said. get the ball to Katryna, we had 
pening for the Notre Dame
68 seconds, the all-time lead­on the year and gives head After two free throws from a good high-low game work­women's basketball team as it
ing scorer had tied the game coach Muffet McGraw the Notre Dame's other All­ing." 
is one of the Elite Eight. Beingand turned the tide when she 300th win of her career. They American, Katryna Gaither, the Gaither finished with 26 seeded sixth and reaching thedialed long range on three con­have also won 20 of their last Irish were down 56-55 when points as she went 10-for-15 Elite Eight makes them thesecutive trips down the !1oor. 22, with the two losses coming Alabama switched to a zone from tho field. Gaither also Cinderella story of the NCAA"Definitely the highlight of against the top-ranked and defenso. On the next two trips had nine rebounds of which 
1997 women;s basketball
my career," Morgan said. "On undefeated Connect~cut down the floor McMillen four of came off thr, offensive 
championship and there are
the first two I was surprised I Huskies, who advanced over drained two threes and the glass. 
no signs that midnight is
was that open, then I felt so Illinois in the Midwest Hegion, Domers wero up by five with approaching.
good I just let the third one 78-73. The Irish will take on under nine minutes left. see NCAA/ page I 2 
They should haVf~ been seed­ed higher then sixth and prob­ably deserved tlwir first two games in the friendly confines of tlw .Joyce Center. But that has been the only thing that has gorw wrong for the 30-6 team. as wlwnever tlwy have ner(IPd a big shot or a big n~bound, someorw has dPii\'­ered. Tlwv haw bePn down. but eertai~lv not out as tlwy have been tiw onPs eliminat­itig. 
After quickly bouncing Memphis out of thr tourna­ment, the Irish had tlwir sights set on tho host squad. the Texas Longhorns. In one of the finest games of tlw NCAA tournament, Notre Dame 
The Observer/Rob Finch 
found themselves down by
Senior Beth Morgan received many accolades from her teammates after three straight three-pointers to tie the game against Alabama. 
five and all the momentum and crowd bPhind the burnt 
The women's basketball regional finals can be seen on ESPN today at 4:30 p.m. 
see INSIGHT I page 15 
-
....
::·~·

• MEN'S lACROSSE 
-

-............... ,... ·----....--. 
............ _....,..

_llif>ill___lllli!ill~l·!.,..,.,....r ~
w·· .:ii'f

Irish roll over the Big Green ___,___ .......,. 
-!&Iii ~ 

By CHARLEY GATES onslaught, scoring at 11:52, but Dame goal for goal in the third Sports Writer his goal was answered by Brian quarter as each team scored Merritt of Dartmouth three­twice. But then Ker,nan struck In an awe-inspiring display of and-one-half minutes later. "I again for his fourth goal of the offensive power, the Notre thought that we actually came game. With the Irish down a Dame men's lacrosse team out a bit tentative," quipped man. defenseman Adam routed visiting Dartmouth. 15-Owen. "But I think that we Sargent stole the ball from a 5, Saturday afternoon at Moose turned it up a notch after that." Dartmouth player and charged Krause Stadium and raised "Turned it up a notch" is down the linld. lie then passed their record to 3-1. understating the case; it was it to Keenan who easily solved 
"It's always good to get to a more like "turning it up 10 goaltender Andrew Dance with win in the first game at home," notches" or "turning it up until 2: I 0 left in the third quarter. stated junior All-American mid­it takes off." The Irish notched The teams traded goals to fielder Jimmy Keenan, who the next seven goals to build a b11gin the fourth quarter. but once again led the Irish offen­-commanding 8-1 lead. Junior Notre Dame proceeded to put sive punch wi~ four goals and attackman Ned Webster started tho ganw out of reach with four three assists. "Last year we the run with his first of thr·ee unanswered goals and a 15-4 didn't have such a good home goals and then fed Keenan for load. Irish AII-Anwrican goalie record, so this was a great his first goal of the game. Chris Alex Cade played another out­start." . Dusseau and Will DeRiso each standing game as hn recorded 
The game began auspiciously scored in a span of 57 seconds nine saves and allowed only for the Irish, who quickly to augment the Irish lead to 7-1 four goals in the 55 minutes he jumped to a 3-1 lead at the end at halftime. played. of the first quarter. Brad Owen Dartmouth, however, contin­
The Observer/Brandon Candura 
initiated the Dartmouth ued to fight, matching Notre 
see M.LAX I page lG Todd Rassas and the Irish lacrosse team won decisively on Saturday. 

vs. George Was-hington, _Men's vs. Hobart, 

at NCAA tournament 

;P' Q)
March 29 • Women's Lax win first home game. 
vs. Indiana, vs. Purdue, see page 16March 25 

March 29 vs. Western Michigan, 
Track and Field at Sun ••riJ •Men's Tennis win another one. 
Tomorrow Devillnvitational and 

., ~ '0 
see page 13
Purdue Invitational, Today, 4 p.m. March 29 
Women's vs. Stanford, 
~ 





