


.. 
Notre Dame loses law student to heart failure 
By HEATHER COCKS 
News Editor 
A third-year Notre Dame law student died yesterday afternoon following his col­lapse in LaFortune Student Center. 
Joseph Ciraolo, 25, went into cardiac arrest while seated in a corner of The Huddle. Witnesses reported that he slumped out of his motorized wheelchair and seemed to stop breathing as he lay on the floor. 
A nearby student called for medical help at approximate­ly 5 p.m. and two fire trucks responded shortly thereafter. Paramedics treated Ciraolo on site, administering CPR for 20 to 25 minutes before an ambulance carried him to St. Joseph's Medical Center, where he was pronounced dead. 

"It's real sad," murmured a Huddle employee as Ciraolo was carried out. "He was a real sweet kid." 
David Link, Dean of the Notre Dame Law School, knew Ciraolo well, having taught him over the three years of study. 
"He was a great guy. He loved studying law, and he loved being at Notre Dame," Link said. "It was kind of his dream to be here." 
Ciraolo suffered from soft­bone disease, which was a catalyst for his continued car­diac difficulties. Link con­firmed that medical problems were a frequent occurrence throughout Ciraolo's life. 
"His heart gave him prob­lems a year ago," Link reported, "and he took a short leave of absence. But he came back and kept fighting hard, kept working." 

A resident of Fischer Graduate Residences, he earned an undergraduate English degree from Canisius College and belonged to the Sigma Phi Epsilon fraternity. 
Professor Patricia O'Hara, vice president of Student Affairs, and assistant vice president for Residence Life Bill Kirk chose to accompany Ciraolo to the hospital and assisted in notifying his fam­ily. 
"Joe really fit the spirit of this place," Link said. "He was at some disadvantages, but he never let things get in his way. 

"He taught us a lot. Joe added a lot to the Law School," he continued. Photo special to The Observer -----=:-:-=-=--=-.,....---:-Joseph Ciraolo (right) celebrated his 25th birthday with friends last week. 
see CIRAOLO I page 4 

• STUDENT GOVERNMENT 
Griffin/Nass back clause reVISIOn 
By BRAD PRENDERGAST Editor-in-Chief 
Student body president Matt Griffin and vice president Erek Nass threw their full support yesterday behind the campus movement to include sexual orientation in the University's non-discrimination clause. 
Their announcement came in advance of a rally scheduled for today at 12:30 p.m. on the steps on the Main Building. The rally, partly sponsored by the College Democrats, is expected to focus on student rights as well as the non-dis­crimination clause. 
According to the student gov­ernment leaders, a decision by the University's officers to include sexual orientation in 
see GRIFFIN I page 4 
Five students receive Fulbrights 
By SARAH J. HILTZ 
News Writer 
Thanks to a Fulbright Grant, senior Michael Lazarra will leavfl for Chile in January, where he will do research as part of his 
master's ~'i:t=tf!,~"i•H thesis. T h e • Notre Dame Fulbright student wins 
Grant is Trumangrant awarded p.5 annually ~o 
seniors who have a profi­ciency in a foreign lan­guage. The Grant allows students to study up to a year in a foreign country after graduation. Two more 
see GRANT I page 4 





'Town 

Better relations between campus, community equal more involvement 
By MATTHEW LOUGHRAN Assistant News Editor 
''welcome to South 
Bend" reads the 
sign at the city limits. This sign marks the boundary between South Bend and the rest of St. Joseph County, and it is a full mile from Notre Dame, Ind., which houses the campuses of the University of Notre Dame, Saint Mary's College and Holy Cross College. 
Constant expansion of both communities has resulted in almost no physical distance between them. Even though, in the eyes of some students, proximity has done little to bridge the psychological gap between the residents of the two areas, both have always had close administrative ties. 
"We have always had a good relationship with the governing people of the area," said Father 
· Edward Malloy, current presi­dent of Notre Dame. "There is a cooperative spirit in our deal­ings with the county commis­sioners and city councils. We have also been fortunate to have good mayors in both South Bend and Mishawaka for a long time." 

Both use these ties to try to bind themselves together in other ways for the mutual ben­efit of both entities. 
"We have played an instru­mental role in the community," said Malloy, who was appointed to the post upon Father Theodore Hesburgh's resigna­tion in 1987. "Many of our offi­cers have served on the St. Joseph Hospital Board, the Mishawaka Hospital Board and the board of directors for the Chapin Street Health Center [of the St. Joseph's Medical Center]." 
It was during Hesburgh's 35 year term as president that the Studebaker plant, which pro­vided a large portion of the employment for the communi­ty, went under. Hesburgh sees 

the resulting economic shift towards t h e University as evidence that South Bend has equally depended on the support of Notre Dame's administra­tion. 
"Ever since the exit of Studebaker, we have been the largest employer in the area," he said. "We have worked for economic development within the community. A broad base of small businesses has replaced and even surpassed the large business that disap­peared." 
Notre Dame employs 3,901 

community.' 
Father Edward Malloy 

people, while the next largest employer, the South Bend Community School Corporation, has a staff of 3,200 local resi­dents. "That is the single most important relationship that we have to the community," said Malloy. "The community members get stable wages and employment. It gives them a chance to work and be remu­nerated in a former industrial area." 
Members of the community have also played a role in the 
financial  situation  of  the  
University.  "Our first drive to  
build  the  original wing  of  

Nieuwland [in 1953] brought us $20,000 from the community of the $1 million needed to com­plete the project," Hesburgh said. The Joyce Athletic and Convocation Center, built in 1968 and named for Father 
Edmund Joyce, executive vice­president during the Hesburgh administration, cost $8.6 mil­lion to build, more than $1.8 million of which was raised from the St. Joseph Valley Alumni Club-and from the areas around the University. 
Notre Dame, with its network television exposure and its nationally-ranked sports teams bring a large amount of tourist money to the South Bend com­munity. The Notre Dame ranks as the number one tourist attraction in South Bend, fol­lowed by the College Football Hall of Fame and the Studebaker Museum. 
"Our relationship with the leaders in the business commu­nity has always been good, especially with the amount of visitors that come for the foot­ball games," said Malloy. 
see COMMUNilY I page 8 
-~----------~-­

page 2 The Observer • INSIDE Thursday, April 24, 1997 
• INS!DE COLUMN 


You call that subtle? 
Think there's no such thing as trying too hard? 
Think again. 
You know that seduc­tion ploy you're using now? The flashing neon sign that yells: "I am bait! I am shameless! Be seduced by me!"? It 

isn't working all that Jillian Pagliocca 
well. Admit it. Advertising Designer 
Or maybe you think 
you've already perfected your tactics with 
your subtle cast and reel. Either way, you'd 
probably be surprised to know what she's 
thinking as you execute your "moves." 
If you say: "Whew, I just drank 537 
beers," while thinking ''I'm unstoppable, 
though nauseated and not a little dizzy," 
she's thinking: "He thinks I'm swooning, but 
I'm only trying to avoid the geyser of spittle 
shooting from his mouth." 
You look at her lips instead of making eye 
contact (men have no idea they do this), 
while slurring about the bar smells or bar 
crowd or beer line. She thinks: "He's set­
ting up his honing device so he won't miss 
the target." 
You say: "You should've seen me do that 
keg stand." She thinks: "He wants me to 
know he is as ready to enter the circus as 
he is AA." 
You think: "She is dancing so sexy. We 
just made eye-contact, therefore she wants 
me to violate her personal space." She 
thinks: "I love dancing with my friends. 
What a fun and freeing experience. I am so 
happy I could just... Ugh. I just made eye 
contact with that guy. Here he comes." 
You think: 'Til touch her buttocks as she 
walks by, so she'll know I think she's cute." 
She thinks: "That guy had a deranged child­
hood and is coping by adopting primitive 
mating behaviors." 
You think: "I am bold and fearless. I'll 
bring her a drink without asking her if she 
wants one first. I have no idea what she 
likes to drink, but she better be thankful 
she's getting a free one no matter what I 
bring her." She thinks: "Presumptuous bas­
tard, but I'm thirsty. I'll take it." 
You: "I will just stand in this dark corner 
until she finds me. If she does not come to 
this, my dark corner, she is not worth shar­
ing my love and life with." She: "What the 
hell is he doing in that dark corner?" 
You are all of a sudden amazingly adept 
at pointing out "old friends" to your buddies 
(coincidentally, they all seem to have a sub­
stantial amount of torso, thigh or cleavage 
showing). She thinks: "It's true, you know, 
what your mom said: I really do have eyes 
in the back of my head. Stop pretending you 
know me or I'll expose you." 
You say: "How are you getting home?" 
thinking, "What a chivalrous, mighty man I 
am to make her think I care for her safety! 
Besides, I can't remember where I live." 
She knows: "This is the first in a long line of 
circumlocutions leading up to the moment 
when he slobbers his beer mouth all over 
my face." 
And you thought you were being subtle. 
You call that subtle? 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
• TODAY's STAFF 
News Graphics Matt Loughran Brian Blank Dave F reddoso Production 
Sports Heather Cocks Allison Krilla Matt Loughran Viewpoint Dave Freddoso 
Eduardo Llull Lab Tech Accent "Photo" Joe Stark 

• WtlRW AT A GLANCE 
SAN JUAN, Puerto Rico Carjackings in Guyana. Gun slayings in the Dominican Republic. Kidnappings in Haiti. 
Officials blame the Caribbean's increas­ingly violent crime on an increase in depor­tations from the United States. The depor­tees, they say, are introducing criminal lessons learned in America to their native land. 
They also say the deportees, many involved in drug trafficking and repatriated while serving prison terms, are being sent back in a haphazard fashion that has authorities scrambling to keep tabs on them. 
Newspapers in Guyana publish police pho­tographs and details about returned crimi­nals as "a community service." One such notice was for Patsy Walleshi, 36, who left Georgetown with her family when she was 12 and lived in East Orange, N.J., until she was jailed for possessing crack and deported last year. 
"Dozens of people are repatriated in a very ad hoc fashion, many of them with no roots here, having lived most of their lives in the United States," Trinidad's foreign minister, Ralph Maraj, said last month. "We shall be making an overture to President Clinton to pursue the matter in a more humane fashion." 
He said Caribbean leaders would raise the issue at the first U.S.-Caribbean sum­mit in Barbados May 9-10. 
The president of the Dominican Republic went even further. Leone! Fernandez said he would ask for fewer Dominicans to be deported while negotiating with Washington, which wants hundreds of U.S. criminals extradited from the Dominican Republic. 
Dominican police say violent crime, espe­cially armed crime, soared last year. They point to drug-gang slayings with subma­
APtCarl Fox chine guns and armed robberies. 
John Paul II heads for Prague McVeigh trial date nears 
VATICAN CITY 
Undaunted by an apparent assassina­tion attempt and cold weather during his recent trip to Bosnia, Pope John Paul II is pushing forward with his brisk trav­el schedule, with the Czech Republic as his next stop. The 76-year-old pontiff sets off Friday for the Czech capital" of Prague, and later for the town of Hradec Kralove. During his trip to the Bosnian 

capital of Sarajevo two weeks ago, John Paul shivered amid the swirling snow and 30-degree temperatures. But the pope appeared in good form given the ailments that have slowed him. The pontiff also plans to go to Beirut May 10-11, and his homeland of Poland from May 31-June 10. Vatican officials have published itineraries of the Beirut and Poland tours. John Paul's visit is intended to commem­orate the martyrdom of Bohemia's patron saint, Adalbert, who died 1,000 years ago. It will be his third visit to Czech lands. A 1990 visit to Prague was his second to a former Iron Curtain country. "The night has passed," he said at the time. Now, as he has in previous trips to former Communist countries turning to the marketplace, John Paul may urge people to resist unbridled materialism. "This is the most important characteristic of the current time in our society: deepening also the spiritual dimen­sion," Cardinal Miloslav Vlk, Prague's archbishop, recently told Vatican Radio. 
Witness in cult trial implicates Russian 
TOKYO 
A former Russian security official sold Japan's doomsday cult the blueprints it needed to built its poison-gas plant, a former cult member testified Wednesday. Although Russia quickly denied the allegation, Yoshihiro Inoue, the cult's former intelligence chief, said the Aum Shinri Kyo cult could not have made the sarin nerve gas without the Russian's help. Kyodo News agency reported the testimony in the murder trial of cult founder Shoko Asahara, who is accused of orchestrating a 1995 sarin gas attack on Tokyo's subway. The gas killed 12 people and sickened thousands. Inoue said the cult paid former Russian Security Council secretary Oleg Lobov about $79,000 for the blueprints for the gas plant. A spokesman for Russia's Federal Security Service, Alexander Zdanovich, dismissed the allegation. "This is total nonsense," he told The Associated Press. The cult's former doctor, Ikuo Hayashi, testified that a cult member brought the plans to Japan two years before the attack on the subway, and about a year before a gas attack in central Japan that killed seven people. 
DENVER 

Seeking to stir jurors' emotions early, prosecutors intend to open their case against Timothy McVeigh on Thursday by calling Oklahoma City bombing survivors and rescuers to describe their terrifying ordeal. Opening statements from both sides are expected to last at least half aday, after which prosecutors will put on their first witnesses. "The focus will be on the moment of the bombing," a source familiar with the government's strategy said. "The first witnesses will be victims and law enforcement types." Prosecutors also plan to play dramatic news videotape of the frantic aftermath of the April 19, 1995, bombing that blew apart Oklahoma City's nine-story federal building, killing 168 people-including 19 children. "It makes sense to begin in that way," said University of Colorado law professor William Pizzi, a former federal prosecutor. "It is an attention-grabber. It's a crime of singular magni­tude in our history. This is what this case is really about." Said law professor Christopher Mueller, also of the University of Colorado: "You really want to show the jury that this was a crime that had consequences, human con­sequences." The emotional atmosphere in the courtroom will be heightened by the presence of the 12 or more vic­tims who will be seated in the audience, in partial view of the jury. McVeigh, who turned 29 on Wednesday, could get the death penalty if convicted of murder and conspiracy in the deadliest act of terrorism on U.S. soil. 
Roemer bill will block space station 
WASHINGTON 

Congressional opponents of a space station, led by Indiana Democrat Tim Roemer, began a new drive Wednesday to kill the project. "It is bad science, bad fiscal policy. It's foreign policy running our domestic considera­tions," Roemer said, flanked by other members of Congress apd scientists who oppose the station. "Let's get the station canceled for the benefit of science and the bud­get." The United States is committed to spend $17.4 billion at a $2.1 billion-a-year clip. The European Space Agency, Japan and Canada are doing their share as partners, but Russia is lagging badly in starting a vital segment. NASA plans to build a temporary substitute for the Russian seg­ment, a service module. Because of Russia's tardiness, the first assembly flight, scheduled for November. has been pushed back 11 months. Including operating costs, the sta­tion's cost to the United States will be $94 billion over its projected 10-year life, Roemer said in announcing intro­duction of a bill to cancel the project. The bill lists 31 co­sponsors. "If Congress decides to continue in this folly," he told reporters, "let us at least have accountability. 
• SOUTH BEND WEATHER • NtHIONAl WEATHER 5 Day South Bend Forcast 
The AccuWeather®forecast for noon, Thursday, April 24.
AccuWeather® forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 
Lines separate high temperature zones for the day. 

Joey Crawford 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday 

;~:ers:~::~ ~:::. ~1 ,:~~:~:~,ioe~i~:~,~a~: ~s~s~~;r is a member of ~,rf/m,~~ ffl Q {) ~ £: 

Arcola  57  40  Chicago  55  38  Miami  82  68  
Atlanta  69  45  Columbus  60  41  New York  54  45  
Baltimore  55  42  Dallas  73  52  Phoenix  80  63  
Bellingham  61  43  Denver  40  33  St. Louis  59  41  
Casper  37  29  Los Angeles78  59  Traverse  50  33  


Thursday, April 24, 1997 The Observer· CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
• Srum.:r-n SENATE 

Despite cuts, Student Union gets sizeable budget 
By DEREK BETCHER 
Associate News Editor 
A flurried hodge-podge of business filled yesterday's Student Senate agenda. The half'-million dollar Student Union budget, student rights, new m cards, ethics violations, and Student Union's goals for next fall W!CJre each individually addressed by the senate. 
In one of the meeting's most consequential actions, the sen­ate unanimously approved next year's Student Union budget. 
"It was a very difficult process, everyone's budgets were so well-presented," said Student Union treasurer Nerea Arrien. 
Her Financial Management Board had the task of distribut­ing $477,000 in available funds. The board met over the weekend to address-the $751,000 in requests it had 
received, Arrien told the Senate. 
"The money is tight," assis­tant treasurer Ryan Harding admitted. This year, there was $43,000 less than last year largely because of diminished sales of The Shirt. Half of the proceeds from The Shirt sales combine with student activity fees to fund the Student Union, senators were told. 
Budgets for the Office of the President, the Student Union Board, Hall Presidents' Council and other programming orga­nizations were significantly lower than last year. 
After submitting the budget for approval, Arrien fielded questions from the floor on the procedures and reasoning the financial management board had used to divide up the money. 
In discussion, the senators noted that only the general clubs and organizations fund had received a greater sum than last year. And nonethe­less, the total allotment was 


Tony Sefring 

$125,000 less than had been requested. 
-"Some people are going to be under-funded no matter what. We tried to meet their requests as best we could," offered Tony Sefring, chairman of the Club Coordination Council. 
ing his goals for the student union in the coming academic year. 
"We have the opportunity to be here and really improve the University. With all of the changes that have been made [in the structure of student government], we can really set a precedent," he said. 
Improving all levels of cam­pus communication and improving the quality of stu­dent life were Griffin's targets. Specific issues he identified for the senate were campus secu­rity and safety, gender and diversity, faculty-student rela­tions, student rights, and the non-discrimination clause. 
"Communication is of espe­cially great importance," Griffin said, as he revealed plans for a weekly "campus hook-up" student government newsletter. 
• In other news, senator Matt 
COMMENCEMENT TICKET REQUEST RESULTS 
As of April 18, students who will participate in the May 1997 Commencement Ceremony, and who have indicated the number of tickets requested (up to a maximum of four) on the Commencement Ticket Request form, will have those requests honored. Because of the high demand for the maximum number of tickets, any requests turned in after April 18 cannot be guaranteed. 
Commencement tickets are given to each graduate by the university, but may not be transferred for a consideration (including, but not limited to money, gifts, property). Violation of this regulation may mean you will not be allowed to receive or retain any commencement tickets. 
TICKET DISTRIBUTION Tickets will be distributed in Room 117, Cushing Hall Auditorium, on Thursday and Friday, May 15 and 16, 8:30 a.m. to 4:00 p.m. You MUST bring your cap and gown receipt and your ID with you to pick up your tickets. 
COMMENCEMENT INFORMATION ON THE WORLD WIDE WEB Please note that graduation information, including ticket request results, is available on the World Wide Web at http://www.nd.edu/-ndreg/gr/ gradinfo.html 
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME OFFICE OF THE REGISTRAR COMMENCEMENT TICKET COMMITTEE 
senate unanimously accepted Mamak's proposal. 
• Director of Food Services David Prentkowski updated the senate on the upcoming new lD cards. The new technology, he explained, will be used to aid campus security and to help control access to various build­ings and activities. The new cards will not immediately be used as athletic tickets or debit cards, Prentkowski explained. 
"The whole emphasis behind this move forward is conve­nience, security, and safety," he said. "The new card won't look that different, and for next fall you won't see a whole lot of new information." 
• Ethics committee chairman 
A.J. Boyd also addressed the senate. His committee was looking into last week's senate decision to approve students appointed to positions in the office of the president. 
"We're just trying to prevent misconduct," Boyd said. 
Specifically, there was con­cern over whether Lee Hambright could serve as both HPC treasurer and student gov­ernment assistant treasurer. Hambright was on hand to address the senate. 
"I can separate my views and serve each post independent­ly," Hambright told the senate. "I don't think there'll be any problems." 
Amidst discrepancies over the exact sentiments of the ethics committee, the concerns were dismissed as a matter of constitutional semantics. The senate agreed that, in the future, uncertainties concern­ing the wording of the constitu­tion should be referred to the oversight committee. 
"Getting nit-picky is not the right thing to do here," Mamak said. 

SUBWAY 

Catering . Service 


You've Earned It! 
·Giant 6 Foot Party Subs ·Party Platters ·Party Trays 
PHONE 289-1288 
"' ·' .. ,·:. -.~ -:-=­
. . . ,...:. -. . -,. . .:.
~UB .. .. ... . .
~ 


It's Not a Dream! 
T1l.!lll'd~ cll'~~lk h~Sl ([l{))wlfll.hi{))1!Jl$~$ ~ml~lbl~ ifl{))ll' rrh~ 1~~7-~~ $dhl{))l{))[ ~~d 
We must have been sleepy, because we underestimated the numbers and woke up to find we have a limited number of two bedroom town homes still available for the 1997-98 school year! Assignments will be made on a first come, first serve basis and they won't last long! 
So don't snooze or you' lllose! Stop by the leasing office and get your application packets today! 
One bedroom and studios still available as well! 
TURTLE CREEK APARTMENTS 1710 TURTLE CREEK DRIVE 
G:t
EQUAL HOUSING
(219) 272-8124 
OPPORTUNITY 

Sefring reported on how the CCC would distribute its $150,000, which was allotted to them by the Financial Management Board. Their bud­geting amongst Notre Dame clubs and organizations was separately approved in yester­day's meeting. 
Even student body president Matt Griffin, whose office received less than one-third of what it requested, offered a cautious endorsement of the budget. 
"On the whole, I think this budget is really fair. On the whole, it has some merit," he said. 
Earlier in the meeting, Griffin made a state of the union address to the senate, explain-Mamak (Keenan) reported for the student rights committee. He proposed submitting an advertisement in The Observer to publicize the Senate's opin­ion to both the administration and the student body. 
That opinion would be two­fold: first, the senate would support recently enumerated rights or "entitlements" for stu­dents in disciplinary hearings. Second, the senate will call for a student bill of rights to be created. 
"We just want the adminis­tration to see that the Student Senate supports these mea­sures," offered Zahm senator Brandon Williams. 
After deciding to enlarge the size of the proposed ad, the 



page 4 The Obser~er • CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, April 24, 1997 
phobia really don't mean much Chile from 1973-89, the taken are concerned with the unless it takes concrete and Augusto Pinochet years. history of Eastern Europe.


Fulbright
Griffin 

visible actions to attack the ''I'm trying to study the liter­''I'm not Polish, but I took a problem," Nass continued. continued from page 1 ature written under the dicta­Polish llistory course, and it
continued from page 1 

"The clause is the perfect tor's censorship," said really interested me," Buckley example of where the Notre Dame students, David Lazarra. explained. 
Please Recycle The Observer. Por favor, Reciclen El Observer THANK YOU • Gracias 



Viewpoint 
Needs columnists for the 1997-98 school year. Interested writers should submit an 800-900 word sample column to the Viewpoint Editor in 314 LaFortune by 5:00 pm Wednesday, April 30 
Call Dan at 1-4541 with questions. 
We are sorry to announce that Africa Day Celebration has to be deferred due to circumstances beyond the organizers' control. Africa Day will be rescheduled at a later date. Our apology for any znconvenzence. 

the clause would be a key step in reducing the level of homo­phobia at Notre Dame. 
"The atmosphere for gays, lesbians and bisexuals on this campus is slowly improving, but still has a long way to go," Griffin said. "An important step in this process is for the offi­cers of the University to make a stand and say, 'It is wrong for students, faculty or staff to dis­criminate against any individ­ual simply because of their sex­ual orientation."' 
Nass said his decision to take a stand on the issue resulted from hearing the concerns of the students. 
"It [homophobia] is a real problem on campus," he said. "We're interested in taking steps to alleviate the problem." 
Nass also pointed to the nature of the campus commu­nity as a reason to endorse the push to include sexual orienta­tion in the clause. 
"The Notre Dame family is about inclusion, not exclusion," he said. "Not including sexual orientation in the clause alien­ates certain members of our community. 
"Statements by the University that it doesn't condone homo-

University. can take such action." 
At the Campus Life Council meeting April 14, Morrissey Hall senator Matt Szabo intro­duced a resolution that called for the Office of Student Affairs to establish a deadline to make a decision on the clause. 
In discussing the resolution, the council agreed to have Griffin, who chairs the council, send a letter to Professor Patricia O'Hara, vice president of Student Affairs, that asked for a timetable on the issue and offered the council's support in the decision-making process. 
The resolution, which can be voted upon at the council's next meeting Monday, would be sent only if O'Hara does not respond to the letter. 
Student Senate, which is chaired by Nass, will address and vote on two resolutions regarding the clause at its meeting next Tuesday. 
The resolutions woold encourage the University's offi­cers to provide a timeline for their decision and would announce the senate's support for including sexual orientation in the non-discrimination clause. 
Buckley and Paige Reeves, are waiting for approval from Poland and Spain, and Ryan Beville and Michael Shveima are alternates to Japan and Sweden. 
Lazarra studied for a semes­ter in Santiago, Chile, as a sophomore and worked last summer in the U.S. Embassy there. 
"I didn't want Chile to escape my curriculum. I tried to keep Chile alive in my academic work," said Lazarra. 
Lazarra's goal is to write articles or even a short book about the literature written in 
Ciraolo 
continued from page 1 
Kirk said that the funeral will likely take place in Ciraolo's hometown of Cheektowaga, NY, with an on­campus memorial service slated to occur before gradua­tion. 

Link stated that the law school will award a posthu­mous degree to Ciraolo, with his family in attendance at the graduation in May; his broth­er, Russell, will accept the degree. 
"He fought for that degree. He wanted it, and fought to pursue it. You have to admire that; what a wonderful spirit," said Link. 
David Buckley hopes to find out in the next two weeks if he'll be studying in Poland or serving in the Army in Germany next year. 
Buckley, who participates in Army ROTC, knows that he will have no chance to go to Poland without the Fulbright Grant. 
''I'm excused [by the Army], provided I get the Fulbright," said Buckley. 
Buckley, a History and Government major, is fascinat­ed with the history of Poland as a traditionally oppressed yet culturally rich people. Many of the history classes he has 
Buckley's decision to apply to study in Poland was also a practical one. He figured that applying to a more popular program, like Mexico or France, would have involved stiffer competition. 
"Poland is obscure enough that I have a shot at it," Buckley said. 
Only 24 Notre Dame students applied for Fulbright grants this year. 
Information on the Fulbright Scholarship is available at the Institute for Scholarship in the Liberal Arts, 102B O'Shaughnessy Hall. 

-Pan African Cultural Center 


Thursday, April 24, 1997 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS • page 5 
BySARAHJ. HILTZ News Writer 
Every year, 80 college juniors throughout the coun~ try are awarded the Truman Scholarship. One of this year's recipients is a student at Notre Dame. 
The award, a $30,000 grant given to students who to work in public puuu;y,n,y,• given to Katie Beirne. 
A junior in the Colle Arts and .Letters, hopes to use to graduate Harvard, the Chicago. University. 
According to Flint-Hamilton, as~>ist•ant d,!iJ, of the College of Letters, the Trum Scholarship appgcati process is a very fierce petition. The award es students who have a of public service and who 
Questions? Ideas? Seen News happening? 
C())liD~®rrW®rr '"®liD~illl®W~'" 1l~illlrrlL®~IID 
or call us at 1-5323. 



All Faculty, Staff, and Students 
are invited to attend the Joint Military Presiden rial Review. The ceremony begins at 4:30pm on Thursday, April 24th, and will be held in the Loftus Athletic Center. 


25 
26 

27
MEN'S & WOMEN'S 
MEN'S 

WOMEN'STRACK/V 
lACROSSE/V 
SOFTBALL/V
AT DRAKE RELAYS 

AT MICHIGAN STATE 
VS. RUTGERS
DES MOINES, lA 
130 PM 

SOFTBAll FIELDAND.Al 
11:00 AM
WOMEN'S
HILSDALE RELAYS HILSDALE, Ml 

MEN'S
SOFTBALL!V 
VS. RUTGERS 
BASEBALL/V 
SOFTBALL FIELD 
AT PITT, NOON NOON 
BOOKSTORE 
MEN'S 

BASKETBALL FINALS 
BASEBALL!V 
AT WESTERN VIRGINIA NOON 
THE GOAL OF SPORTSWEEKENO IS TO INFORM SlUDENTS A.BOUT SPORTS ON CAMPUS. NIKE DOES NOT SPONSOR ANY VARSITY, INTRAMURAL OR CLUB SPORTS ON THIS CAMPUS AND THIS SCHEDULE OOES NOT IN ANY WAY IMPLY SUCH SPONSORSHIP. 

usuaUy in thetop ql:lll:!:"ter
theirdass; ,,y,t ,, ,,,,. 
Flint-Hamilton emphasized that the Truman Scholarship does)wt target any. particula~
majoE · .. "Anybody in any field, even engiri busin(lss, can p · said>Flint* 
I HtllU,lllLVJL>. 


En 

Garde••• 
Stepan Fields housed numerous air toys yesterday, including giant box­ing gloves, as part of AnTostal festivi­ties. A highlight was the joust (pictured right), where stu­dents got to bash each other, Amer­ican Gladiators­style. 
The Observer/Megan Welsh 


Sociology I 0 I: The Internet? 
Norris outlines impact of Web on interactions 
By SARAH CORKREAN Saint Mary's News Editor 
Gone are the days of writing pen pals and sending photos back and forth to one another. With the advancement of com­munications and the Internet, Jim Norris, an adjunct professor of sociology at !USB, noted com­municating with pen pals in the future will be done via live com­puter screen while conversing with one another. 
Noting the implications of the Internet has not only sociologi­cal but also economic and politi­cal implications, Norris believes these implications are due to the fact that nobody governs the Internet. With no guidelines to abide by, Americans must use their own discretion in deciding what to allow their children to view on the net. 
Speaking to the Saint Mary's Sociology Club, Norris reviewed the historical landmarks that have advanced the world of communications and the social implications the Internet has introduced to society. 
Reviewing the history of the Internet, Norris noted that in 1964 the Internet was in its infant stage. As computer com­panies uncovered more technol­ogy, more information was made available to users. 

Norris noted the most impor­tant sociological advancement was the 1992 presidential ticket of Clinton and Gore. In their campaign they emphasized their goal of getting everyone con­nected to the information high­way. The presidential ticket made aware the potential com­munication power of the Internet. 
"People began buying modems and computers in '95 like they were going out of style," said Norris. "Taking into considera­tion the surge in computer sales, it is easy to understand why this year twenty-two .million house­holds use the Internet and by the year 2000, forty million households will be active users." 
Addressing the larger question of what social implications the Internet will have on society, Norris said if used for the right educational, entertainment, and business functions, there is an entire world of information from other parts of the world that we have only just began to uncover. 
"You literally can find any­thing on the net," said Norris. "The danger of working with the Internet is that young children have access to pornography. But with proper proposed legislation that would ban pornography, the Internet will not hinder, but benefit society." 
"If used properly, the Internet will benefit the lives of many people in ways they cannot even yet imagine," said sophomore Jolma Indriolo. 
In a few years, Norris believes random 'polls will not be taken by communication companies to ask how many people are using the net. Rather, the Internet will be considered an equal to the telephone, a communication device that everyone uses. 
"In this day and age, people have to know what is going on in the world of communications," said Norris. "If one does not keep up with the latest technolo­gy, they may find themselves jobless and struggling to do daily tasks such as grocery shop and order food on the net, which will be considered normal daily activities in American lives." 
Overall, Norris noted the Internet will pull the world clos­er together with live picture communication screens. 
"By being able to see each other on the screen with live sound, global social interaction will increase and build bridges to unchartered lands," he said. 

Mental illness has warning signs, too. 
Withdrawal from social activities. Excessive anger. These could be the first warning signs of a mental illness. Unfortunately, most of us don't recognize the signs. Which is tragic. Because mental illness can be treated. In fact, 2 out of 3 people who get help. get better. 
For a free booklet about mental illness and its warning signs. write to or call: 
National Mental Health Association P.O. Box 17389, Washington, D.C. 20041 
1-800-969-NMHA. Learn to see the warning signs. 


a 
0-­

r 
page 6 The Observer· NATIONAL NEWS Thursday, April 24, 1997 


Police arrest Texan terrorists 
FBI surveillance teams nab Fort Worth bombers 
By CHRIS NEWTON 
Associated Press Writer 
DALLAS 
Four people plotted to bomb a natural gas plant to kill police and divert atten­tion while they robbed an armored car outside a bank, federal authorities said Wednesday. 
Three men and a woman were arrested Tuesday in Fort Worth and in Boyd, 41 miles northwest in rural Wise County. U.S. Attorney Paul Coggins declined to say whether more arrests were expected. 
The FBI refused to discuss the suspects' ultimate aims or comment on reports that they had. ties to white supremacy groups. 
FBI agent Robert Garrity said the suspects had been under surveillance for about six weeks after officials received a tip from an infor­mant. 
According to an FBI affi­davit. the group planned to blow up Mitchell Energy & Development Corp.'s natural gas processing plant, about 15 miles from Boyd. 
The suspects also planned "four or five" secondary explosions timed to kill law enforcement officials responding to the initial blast, Garrity said. 
The targeted tanks contain hydrogen sulfide, a substance commonly referred to as sour gas, and is fatal in significant concentrations, Garrity said. 
"We know they believed that if their plan was suc­cessful, they anticipated they might wipe out half of Wise County," he said. 
As the bombs went off, the group planned to rob an 
Have something to say? Use Observer classifieds. 
./ Used, rare and out-of-print books Initial cost of $2.00 Nationally -circulated ad Success rate of 5CJ'Io 
./ Time required: 2 months 
ERASMUS BOOKS 
Open noon to six Tuesday through Sunday 
1027 E. Wayne Sovdl Bend, IN 46617 (219) 232-8444 

armored car as it pulled up to a bank in Bridgeport. The plot was to unfold May 1, when the suspects believed the armored car would be carrying the most money, Garrity said. 
"The purpose of the armored car robbery was to gain funds that they could use to continue in their ter­rorist activities," he said. 
Agents arrested the sus­pects when the informant reported that the group was going to rob a drug dealer first, he said. 
The suspects were identi­fied as Shawn Dee Adams, 37; his 35-year-old wife, Catherine Dee Adams; 34­year-old Edward Taylor Jr.; and Carl Jay Waskom Jr., 34. 
They are charged with con­spiracy to commit robbery affecting interstate com­merce. More charges were possible. 
Among the items seized during an FBI search of three properties on Tuesday were SKS assault rifles, bomb fuses, grenades, gas masks, 
Have a grea birthday! Love, Pam, Mary ]o, Mike, Brett, Ranee, Drew, & Shiloh 
photographs and diagrams of the Mitchell gas storage tanks, and pictures of the targeted Loomis armored car and two banks. 
The informant told the FBI that the suspects had explod­ed trial bombs at the 20,000­acre Lyndon B. Johnson National Grassland in Wise County. 
Dallas television station WFAA reported that the sus­pects might have ties to the Ku Klux Klan. A pickup owned by one of the suspects bore a bumper sticker sup­porting the presidential bid of former KKK grand wizard David Duke. 
Brian Engel, a spokesman for Mitchell Energy, a private company based in The Woodlands near Houston, said the plant produces gas liquids from natural gas and processes 165 million cubic feet of natural gas per day. 
"As soon as we heard the story, we took measures to increase security," Engel said, referring further ques­tions to the FBI. 
Cat hair contributes to conviction 
By MALCOLM RITTER 
Associated Press Writer 

NEW YORK 
The police had an old leather jacket stained with a murder victim's blood. They thought it belonged to their suspect. But how to show it? 
They did it with cat hair. 
In one of the odder tales of DNA evidence in the court­room, the suspect was con­victed after hairs in the jack­et were genetically matched to a cat that lived with him. 
The case of Snowball, the white American shorthair cat, was reported today in the journal Nature. 
It was one of the few times that nonhuman DNA has been used this way in a mur­der trial. 
The woman was 32 when she disappeared from her home on Canada's Prince Edward Island in 1994. Her body was found in a shallow grave a few months later, and police suspected her former common-law husband. 
By then, the brown leather jacket had been discovered, stuffed in a plastic bag and left in the woods. Tests showed the bloodstains belonged to the woman. 
The cat hairs were found in the lining. Police recalled see­ing Snowball at the man's home during their investiga­tion. 
So they sent a blood sample from Snowball and hair from the jacket to Stephen J. O'Brien of the National Cancer Institute in Frederick, Md. O'Brien has studied cat genetics for 20 years. 


Save time and 1noney with our convenient location just north of campus. \Ve'll even pay you a "nifty" fiity dollars•:• to open your Direct Deposit Checking Account with us. Cool ... 
• 
No-FEE CHECKING 

• 
No MINIMUM BALANCE


. 
• 
No PER-CHECK CHARGE 

• 
No MoNTHLY SERVICE CHARGE 


~{f,JJ-With Direct Deposit of your entire paycheck, you are eligible for our Golden Shamrock Club with these addit·ional benefits, and more. 
• 
FREE GOLDEN SHAMROCK CLUB CHECKS 

• 
FREE TRAVELER'S CHECKS (MAXIMUM OF $2,000) 

• 
DISCOUNTS (1/4%) ON QUALIFIED CONSUMER LOANS 


(219) 239-6611 or (800) 522-6611 
World-Wide Web: http://www.ndfcu.org • E-Mail: ndfcu@ skyenet.net 

A Better Choice to Make 
*This offer is extended exclusively to qualified Faculty and full time Employees of the University of Notre Dame, St. Mary's College and Holy Cross College. $50 wili te credited to your account within 30 days of receipt of your first direct payroll deposit. Termination of this account prior to 12 months of its opening, can require repayment of the $50. This offer ends no later than June 30,1997. and may be withdrawn sooner without notice. 

Thursday, April 24, 1997 

• ALGERIA 


Terror stalks rural towns nightly 
Citizens live in fear of violence from militants 
By RACHID KHIARI Associated Press Writer 
ALGIERS, Algeria 

The knock on the door was supposedly from security forces protecting the sleeping village. Instead, there stood men with long beards and long knives. 
Their predawn slaughter Tuesday ended with 93 vil­lagers dead, including 43 women and young girls and three small children. The vic­tims were mutilated and decap­itated with knives, hatchets, pitchforks and hoes in one of the most savage massacres in Algeria's five years of violence. 
The attack came six weeks before June 5 legislative elec­tions, the first since the army canceled January 1992 voting to thwart a likely victory by a Muslim fundamentalist party. The move triggered the rebel insurgency against the military government. The violence has so far killed 60,000 people. 
"They knocked on the door and said they were members of the security forces," said 34­year-old Fadela M. "My hus­band refused to open the door. So they threw a bomb on the roof. Then they entered through the ceiling. 
Fadela was one of 25 injured in the attack. At Zemirli Hospital in the Algiers suburb of El Harrach, she and some other survivors spoke Wednesday with a handful of reporters. They asked to be identified only by their first names and last initials. 

According to various accounts, about 100 men invaded Haouch Mokhfi Khemisti, 12 miles south of Algiers in the Mitidja Plain. The carnage lasted three hours. 
Witnesses described the men as Islamic extremists. One of those who escaped, Salah H., 32, said the leader of the group was on horseback and "had a list of people to be killed." 
RadiaB. 
Salah said he climbed into a tree and helplessly watched the massacre unfold. 
Rabah H., 63, said he lost his wife, his four daughters, his three daughters-in-law, his son and his two sisters. "They used hatchets, pitchforks and shov­els to decapitate people," Rabah said. 
Fourteen-year-old Radia B., hands trembling, his eyes fixed straight ahead, described how he survived by "playing dead" after being shot twice in the pelvis. 
"When they left, I turned over on my back. There was blood, bloody bodies and heads 

t-lappy Birthday to o!Ar favorite 
Boy Mag~et 
--Doh't get st01ck ih the showel"' 

everywhere," he said. "I faint­ed and woke up in the hospi­tal." 
Security authorities sur­rounded the region later Tuesday, blocking all roads in and out while the dead were buried in nearby Bougara. 
Algerian authorities blamed the killings on extremists, vow­ing to exterminate them. In advance of the elections, how­ever, it has been the govern­ment's plan to emphasize that the Islamic extremists are under its control. 
President Liamine Zeroual has claimed that only "residual terrorism" still threatened the country and that such attacks showed armed groups were on their way out. In a Tuesday night television address, Prime Minister Ahmed Ouyahia echoed those comments and called on citizens to aid in the fight. 
It remained to be seen how effective the militants would be in scaring voters away from the polls, but the attacks have per­suaded many villagers in the region to leave their homes for Algiers. 
The Mitidja is a fertile expanse around Algiers where insurgents and government­armed militias have been stalk­ing each other. Villages sus­pected of contributing to the militias are thought to be tar­gets for massacres, blamed mainly on the Armed Islamic Group, the most radical of the rebel groups. 
The government said Tuesday that security forces were alerted and sent in troops who managed to kill several attackers. 
Mohamed R. gave a different account. 
"Where was the state?" he 
asked. "For three hours, they 
(the attackers) did whatever 
they wanted." 
page 7 



ization' 

Viewpoint. 1@ nd.edu 
JUST USE IT. 

---------~ ___--r----~---~--­
page 8 The Observer • NEWS 

Community 
continued from page 1 
"Surveys have been taken that show us as being an economic engine. With the steady flow through of visitors, the investment that they have made in us will come back to benefit them for many years." 
Notre Dame football has an effect of infusing the South Bend economy with close to $51 million over the course of onf,) year from out-of-town fans. With the recent expansion of Notre Dame Stadium to seat approximately 80,000 fans, the impact is expected to reach close to $91.8 million. That figure does not even take into account the University's nationally ranked soccer, baseball, women's basket­ball programs, as well as other teams that draw many fans to South Bend. 
"Every once in a while you will hear a complaint or concern from the communi­ty about students, or from the students about the community," Ilesburgh said. "But mostly they get along much better than that." 
One aspect of Notr<' Dame life that impedes interaction b<'lween students and residents of the surrounding commu­nities is the isolation of' the University's mostly residential campus. 
"Notre Dame is an enclave of its own at times," said Malloy. "Part of this is dri­ven by the weather and part by the resi­dential nature of the cam pus. 
"You will always find people who are afraid to come to campus, and students who are afraid to leave it," he continued. "But that is something that we are work­ing on. We have work<'d with the local police departments to increase student security." 
"There have been some major bridges built," said Stephen l.ueke, mayor of South Bend. "The relationship between the neighborhood and the students who live in the off-campus housing is much more positive now than it was 10 years ago. Even seven years ago, no residents wanted students living in their neighbor­hoods. But off-campus housing complex­es have gotten better and now it is not as much of a problem." 
"Sure, every so often there will be a complaint of drunken students partying too loudly, or students falling victim to crime," said Tim McBride, president of the St. Joseph Valley Alumni Club. "But overall, I think that you will find that a lot of residents do not mind the students being there. 

"Also, I think that a lot of the com­plaints [about security] result from the neighborhoods that the students live in," he added. "The areas around the University have always been fringe areas, and the students just decide that they are going to live there. All that the city and University can do to help is to provide increased police patrols. They cannot change the neighborhoods." 
But the University and the city arc working together to make those areas Jess dangerous. "The University has done a good job to work with city services to prevent break-ins and muggings in the areas around student housing and in the bar zone in the Northeast section of town," Lueke commented. 
Outside of economic impact and off­campus students, the University of Notre 

The Observer/Matt Loughran WNDU is an example of the University's connection to the community. 
Dame and the South Bend community interact through the many service oppor­tunities available to Notre Dame stu­dents. 
"The relationship has been very posi­tive on administrative levels," said Lueke. "Most of it is due to the joint partner­ships, such as the South Bend Center for the Homeless, which has resulted in being a positive experience for both enti­ties." 
"The Center for the Homeless is an 

all Registration Tandem Bicycle Reservations eunion Bookstore Reunion Headquarters 
cket Takers Reunion Seminar Assistants Daytime/Nighttime Shuttle Drivers College Football Hall of Fame Tour Ticket Takers Morris Inn Registration Desk Inn at Saint Mary's Registration Desk Sporting Events Score Keepers 

Elizabeth Dole 
Make Money Fast! 
Work Reunion Weekend 

on campus zs summer June 5-8 
Available Positions 
efreshment Workers Golf Course Worker 
obvious and dramatic example of how the University can get involved," Malloy said. "It was a response to an immediate com­munity need. We went to the Board of· Trustees in order to get approval for the purchase of the clothing store on South Michigan Street and it was a major suc­cess." . While the Center relied heavily on mterest-free funding from the University at its beginnings in 1988, recently it has received a lot of funding from private institutions and individuals both local and national. "About 80 percent of our fund­ing now comes from those private sources," said Matt Towey, director of volunteer services for the Center. Of that private money, only a yearly $10,000 gift is still provided by the University. 
Towey estimates the number of student volunteers that serve the Center in vari­ous capacities to be in the hundreds every year. 
"We get individual students as well as student groups," he said. "They work at everything from the front desk to tutor­ing, anywhere that we need them." 
The radio and television stations that are run by Notre Dame also serve to tie the University to the South Bend commu­nity. 
The South Bend/Elkhart market NBC affiliated station is WNDU Channel 16. This channel, while owned and operated by the University, deals directly with the community and community issues. 
"Being owned by the University we are asked to affect the community in positive ways," said Lou Pierce, director of audi­ence development and television pro­gramming at WNDU. "We do this by pouring a lot of time and effort and money into public service and news pro­gramming. It is what the University expects from a company that they own, and we feel very fortunate to be able to play this role." 
Pierce described television as the most powerful medium in the history of com­munication and said of the Notre Dame's control of WNDU, "We will continue to use such a medium to do good for the community and if ever we stopped doing that, or decided 

The Observer/Matt Loughran 
rarley freshman Katie Dellamaria gets 
mvolved by broadcasting on WSND FM. 
ownership." 
But one of the most direct personal medium connections between the University and the community exists in the tower of O'Shaughnessy llall. WSND 
88.9 FM is the student and volunteer run public radio station owned by the University. 
"I don't know any not for profit organi­zation that more directly links the stu­dents and members of the community on a daily basis than WSND," said Nate ~ackiewicz, station manager of WSt-JD. 
We get the volunteers from the commu­nity up there to work side by side with the students." 
With a broadcast radius of 30 to 40 miles, the radio station reaches deep into Indiana in all directions and even into Michigan. WSND gears its programming towards the community and must run during academic breaks, when most of the rest of the campus shuts down. 
"We depend 100 percent on volunteers from the community to keep us running during the breaks," Rackiewicz said. "The rest of the year it is entirely man­aged by students and students make up nearly 70 percent of the broadcasters. The other 30 percent are community vol­unteers. 

that it was not ---:-:----:-----....._--------------. 
. Notre Dame DE"partment of Music prest.•nts
tmportant to us, 
~~~~~~fd t~:~ Notre Dame Opera Workshop 
the University Garry Grice, director withdraw its John Apeitos, conductor 
Maurice Ravel -L'Enfant et les sortileges 
starring Michelle Holden 
& 

Giovanni Battista Pergolesi -La servo padrona 
starring Laura Portune & Scott Whtpple 
Monday, April 28 &Tuesday, April 29 8:00pm 
Washington Hall University of Notre Dame 
T 1 c k e t s $ 6 Genera I Ad m1 sst on, $ 3 Students &. Senior C 1 t a z t' n s for tickets call 631-8128; For more tnformation call 631 6:!01 



Floods ravage Northern country 
By JULIA PRODIS 
Associated Press Writer 
GRAND FORKS, N.D. 

Town officials and flood-rav­aged residents complairied Wednesday that Grand Forks could have been saved if fore­casters had been right about how high the Red River would rise. 
"I don't like to be critical, but we were told absolutely 49 feet by the weather service," Mayor Pat Owens said two days after the river crested at more than 54 feet. 
''I'm not pointing fingers," she said, "but our engineers said it would have been preventable." 
Others say there's little that could have been done to resist the power of a 500-year flood. 
Back in February, the National Weather Service was already predicting record flooding in the Grand Forks area. The previous record was 48.8 feet set in 1979. The February forecast of 49 feet remained the same through the early April blizzard. Not until April 14 was it increased to 50 feet. 
Sandbagging had already been going on for weeks. And as the river rose, schools and business­es closed to send their students and employees to the front lines piling bags atop the 49-foot earthen dike. 
On April 16th, as the first of the residents along the river began to flee. the weather ser­vice increased the crest fore­cast to 50 1/2 feet. Predictions increased three times over the next two days to 54 feet. 
"We were dealing with an unprecedented flood and you're dealing with Mother Nature and you just have to roll with the 
l..:--:=-•Emerson 
United -'=~>--·-·---<1 
States .~----··J\~ Red River of the North j 
NORTH DAKOTA 
punches," said Dean Braatz. hydrologist in charge of the weather service's North Central River Forecast Center in Minneapolis. "It's extremely complex and under the circum­stances I think we did a very credible job." 
Grand Forks Assistant Engineer AI Grasser said the city could have done more to stem the floodwaters if they had accu­rate crest numbers, but he isn't sure how effective extra dike­building and sandbagging would have been. 
"You could have added the sandbags and the dikes and kept it off for a day, but the problem would be to build a dike or sand­bags that would hold up for sev­eral weeks," he said. "It's not just a question of elevation, but 
)""<:/ '"" \ ........ 
Red River \.., Valley , MINNESOTA 

of duration." 
Heavy fall rains followed by a freeze made for a soft, muddy platform for the sandbags that have begun to sink. 
When the flood hit, the city was in the midst of analyzing an Army Corps of Engineers study recommending Grand Forks ring itself with a system of dikes and flood walls. The cost: $40 mil­lion. 
"It probably would have worked, just barely," Grasser said. "I wish it was built." 
Downstream, with the crest moving north toward Canada, crews rushed to top off dikes protecting deserted towns and farms in the Red River Valley. At least 17,000 people have fled their homes in Canada alone. 

WtlfiT'S tlEW fiT ClitC www Forms 
for 

Renewals, Recalls, and On Order/In Process 
Where: University Libraries Home Page-­http://www.nd.edu/--ndlibs/ and then select Electronic Services-­http://www.nd.edu/--ndlibs/forms.htm Choose the form you need and follow the directions. 
--·-·----~-.. __ .,. _., __.._,..., ......,...__,..~ ...-...,..--...·. 

-~------~-~-----~ 
page 10 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT Thursday April 24, 1997 



One Last Consideration ... 
Well, this is it ... the end draws nigh ... for all of us. This ending means different things for different people. For the seniors it obviously means some­thing quite different than it does to the younger folks among us. For the facul­ty and staff and administrators it has meaning, too. All of us are affected by it in some way. But just what do we take away with us. There was a message conveyed on the Senior Class Retreat this past weekend which is apt for us all as we end the year and move in different directions for a time ... maybe forever. It's a message that has been stabbed at in this column throughout the year. It's really the question of what really matters in the end? ... what's the constant that will hold us together in our separation and in our distance from one another? I'd like to think that those of you who take the time 'o read this col­umn already know. I'd like to think, actually, that it is so ingrained in the hearts and minds of every one of us in this community that it need not even be said. And yet, it would be wrong not to say it ... not to proclaim it! Please God, it won't be a shock to anyone that the one constant, the one thing that matters, the one thing that will hold us all together is Jesus, and the love that God revealed in sending him to be among us as one of us. Oh, I know it sounds pious, and maybe a bit ethereal, but it doesn't make it any less true. For those who call themselves Christian, there is nothing more ... noth­ing else we need to cling to than that. It isn't money, or an accumulation of friends, or even "good times" that will ultimately sustain us in our search for meaning and for happiness. It is only Jesus. Our leave taking of this place has us separated for a while, for some longer than others. But in the Lord, we are not really separated. Just as we gather united around the table now, we will again. Every time we gather to celebrate the Lord's supper, wherever we are, we gather together as one family. We are forever bound in Jesus and in Notre Dame. So whoever you are, whatever the circumstances around your depar­ture, whether it be for a few weeks before the summer session, or the summer months or until the first home football game, Notre Dame will always be home. It is not, for you seniors, an ending, but a beginning of a life more wonderful and more blessed than you can now even ask for or imagine. Trust in the Lord's love for you and pursue God with the same fervor and hope with which you engage every pursuit. Have faith in the God who has brought you this far, and who will never leave you. As gift and prayer, we leave you with the words of Mrs. Charles Cowman and Mary Gorges: 
So now ... we sail and something of what we may expect as we continue 
our voyage we may infer from the past. Without doubt storms will come 
as they came in the bygone days. But we will give them firm and coura­
geous welcome, for we have already weathered so many storms that we are 
unafraid of the wind and the tide, the lightning and the .snow. 
And ·so we shall -when the Voyage is completed drop anchor where no 
storms come, but where the green swell is at last in the haven dumb, and 
we are forever out of the swing of the sea. 
We have come very safely-hitherto; 
And sometimes seas were calm, and skies were blue; 
Sometimes the wild waves rose-the tempest roared; 
But never barque went down with Christ on board. 
And so it shall be to the very end-
Through ebb and flow, the one unchanging friend, 
Ruling the waves which sink at his command, 
Holding them in the hollow of his hand. 
There comes an hour, when, every tempest o'er 
The harbour lights are reached, the golden shores: 
Never, oh nevermore to fret or fear-
Christ, give us faith to praise thee even here! 
From the staff of the Office of Campus Ministry, good luck on final exams, have a donut hole (or several!) on us. Godspeed in the days ahead. 
Jim Lies, C.S.C. 
0MPUS 
MINISTRY 




VIEWPOINT 
Thursday, April 24, 1997 page 11 
THE OBSERVER 
NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1997-98 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief 
Brad Prendergast 
Managing Editor Business Manager 
Jamie Heisler Tom Roland 
Assistant Managing Editor 
Maureen Hurley News Editor. ........................... Heather Cocks Advertising i\fanager ............................. ] ed Peters Viewpoint Editor .. Dan Cichalski Ad Design Manager .........................Wendy Klare Sports Editor .,1.............................. Mike Day Production Manager. . ............... Mark DeBoy Accent Editor.......................... Joey Crawford Systems Manager ...................... Michael Brouillet Saint Mary's Editor ....................... Lori Allen Controller........................................... Kyle Carlin Photo Editor :~ ........................ Katie Kroener 
The Observer ii the independent newspaper published by rhe students of the University of NotreDame du Lac and Sai~t Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration ofeither institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of rhe Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Sporrs Editor, Accenr Editor, Saint Mary's Editor, Photo Editor, and Associate News Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Columns present the views of the authors, and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. Viewpoim space is available to all members of the Not're Dame/Saint Mary's community and to all readers. The free expression of varying opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 
Editor-in-Chief 63 I -4542 Business Office 631-5313 Managing Editor/Viewpoint 631-4541 Advertising 63 I -6900/8840 News/Photo 631-5323 Systems 631-8839 Sports 63 I -4543 Office Manager 631-7471 Accem/Sainr Mary's 63 I -4 540 Fax 63 I -6927 Day Editor/Production 63 I-5303 Viewpoinr E-Mail Viewpoint. I @nd.edu General Information 631-7471 Ad E-Mail observer@darwin.cc.nd.edu 


• TABLE TALK 

Math and mundanity at Notre Dame 
Wake up! It's finals time again. To cele­brate, I went ahead and put together my own little math test: 
I live in a one-room quad on the third floor of Morrissey. Question: How many people do I live with? (Don't worry, you can use your calculator on this one; I 
Mick Swiney 
promise I won't tell your professor of advanced calculus for tho engineering major who refuses to give in and switch to business.) The answer? 
Four minus me equals three. Right? Wrong. I live with 327 guys, flanked by 385 girls and across the quad from 534 other guys. Every morning I roll out of bed, walk over to the dining hall, and have breakfast with 1,500 people shortly before leaving to attend a class of 50 along with the other 1,442 students who are also attending classes in the same building. On tho way there, I suppose I'll look into the faces of about 1,000 other students as they pass me in the quad. Grab your cal­culator and you've got 327 + 385 + 534 + 1,500 +50+ 1,442 + 1,000 = 5,238. That's a lot of people, isn't it? 
Wrong again. As it turns out, that's nothing-the overall student population is 10,281. Add faculty and staff into the mix and you have 14,749 people on this campus, not counting construction work­ers, tourists and visitors. That means that for all the 5,238 people I run into this morning there will still be 9,511 people I never lay eyes on. 
Oh," you say. That's nice. 
Now look at me. My name is Mark Donovan Swiney, my e-mail address is swiney.3@nd.edu. I'm listed in the regis­trar's office as a psychology and theatre major. 
Look again. I have brown hair and green eyes. I have a light complexion and a mole on my left cheek. I am 5-feet-9 inches tall, and I weigh 160 pounds. 

Is that me? No-keep looking. What's my favorite color? I don't know. What's my favorite food? Whatever I get a craving for, I guess. What's my favorite hobby? Playing guitar. 
Could I possibly be any more boring? The person I have described isn't just me; that person can be found in every section of every dorm on this campus. I don't look any different, dress any different, or even act any different from the 327 people I live with, the 534 I live across from, the 14,7 49 with whom I occupy this spot of Indiana. 
Suppose we add another math problem to this test. Suppose you take me out of Notre Dame: 10,281 -me= 10,280. 
That's a decrease of 0.00972 percent­not enough to make even a ripple on the surface of this fine University. Basically, I am no different from any other member of this community, and my absence (as well as my presence) means nothing to this schooL 
You say you can't accept that? Why not? I accept it every day I wake up and walk out the door; every day that I sit compla­cently at meals and watch thousands of faces pass by me. Am I not even the least bit curious about who these people are? They must only be multiple versions of me, these people I live with, for I have made no effort to step outside my social sphere and uncover the mysteries that hustle past me every day on their way to class. What's wrong withme? 
I remember the night of my first visit to Notre Dame. I toured the campus with a look of wonder and amazement on my face. It was a home football weekend, and I could almost taste the energy, excite­ment and vitality that filled the air and lit up the sky. 
I covered pretty much the entire campus in my dazed wanderings that night, but what I remember more than anything else was a student I passed on the sidewalk somewhere between Dillon and Knott. 
"Hi!" I said to him happily. "Wha ... ?" He responded, but quickly recovered from his surprise. "Hi," he said 
pleasantly, if somewhat confusedly. 
It was the tiniest of incidents, but it stuck in my head. I thought it funny that my greeting had surprised him, especially on a campus filled with such friendly peo­ple. 
I understand now what happened -I wasn't supposed to say hi to him. I was a complete stranger whom he had never seen before. When you're alone on a dark sidewalk and headed in the opposite direction, even eye contact isn't mandato­ry. In other words, the context didn't sug­gest to him that I might greet him. So he was caught off guard when I actually did. 
Now, at the close of my sophomore year at Notre Dame, I understand the rules of social context. I understand the social norms which govern behavior at a decent­sized academic institution; and trust me, I don't say hi to anyone I don't know. 
Each day I sit in the dining hall and watch thousands of faces swirl past me, each one presenting a mystery waiting to be solved: 
Who am I? What's my story? 
Flip through the student directory some­time and maybe you'll see what I mean­thousands of names, each one with a face, a narrative, a history. Each of those pages is full to the brim with life and conscious­ness; each page is a testament to the infi­nite scope of personalities and memories walking the quads, roaming the halls, the libraries, the classrooms, the gyms. 
Walk out to D2000 and look at the license plates-each one has an owner, each owner has a hometown in Virginia, Kentucky, Wisconsin, Alaska. Each one has a house, a family, a childhood. 
Everywhere we turn, every place we go we are surrounded by tales of misery, happiness, strength, weakness, crisis and resolution. We are surrounded by issues, conflicts, hopes, dreams and despair. We spend most of the year stranded on a square mile of land with enough stories and experiences to last us our lives. 
I mentioned that I like to people-watch in the dining hall. Okay ... if I'm so inter­ested, so curious about people, what's stopping me from simply pulling up a chair and saying "Hi, I'm Mick ... tell me 
about yourself'? Nothing's really stopping me, I just don't do it. Why? Because I'm scared. 
That's right, the culmination of all this idealism and zeal for life is the simple fear of making contact. Writing about it is easy -putting it into practice and thereby risking disapproval, embarrassment and humiliation is another thing altogether. I admit it-I'm afraid to act out of social context and violate a few norms. And chances are, I'm not the only one. 
Let's face it-making it to Notre Dame is no easy feat. You've got to be smart, you've got to work hard, you've got to really struggle at times. 
Who are we kidding? It's tough to be smart. It's tough to work hard and take school seriously when many of those around us don't. Getting to Notre Dame can be a long, rough road, and it's pretty much impossible to make it here without a few hard knocks along the way. Most of us have received some schooling in the ways of the social world and the repercussions for violating its norms. Most of us have been burned. 
The result? We're afraid to stick our necks out; we're afraid to step out of line. We're afraid to disregard social conven­tion and make unwarranted contact with each other. 
But we may be running out of time -in three weeks approximately one quarter of the 10,281 will be gone, ejected into the outside world and out of our little commu­nity forever. And we will never have known more than a fraction of them. 
The moral? Stop hiding in social con­vention. These members of the community are our brothers and sisters; we better our own experience by reaching out to them instead of waiting for them to come to us. We add romance and adventure to life in South Bend, Ind., by breaking social rules, violating cultural provisions. We need to break out, and we need it badly. 
So let's do it-I will if you wilL Oh, yeah ... and maybe you'd better brush up on your math. 
Mick Swiney is a sophomore Arts and Letters major. · 
• DCHJI\IESBWW GARRY TRUDEAU 
• fiUOTE OF THE DAY 

~--­
----------------~--------------------------~--------------------------------­
page 12 Thursday, April 24, 1997 


byjoey crawford 



W
hat is wrong with rock stars today? They act like they are so oppressed, yet thousands of kids pay an obscene amount of money to see their shows, they make a lot of money and date the most beautiful people. Take Bush for example. Gavin Rossdale and his crew have made millions selling their two albums despite somewhat negative critical acclaim. On top of this, Gavin is rumored to be dating the new Blond Bombshell of Pop, No Doubt's Gwen Stefani. It's a rough life, Gavin. Bush may be oppressed, but not by society. God oppressed them by grac­ing them with mediocre talent and chips on their shoulders. 

Bush played in Grand Rapids, Mich. this past weekend in front of a capacity crowd. They opened up with their most recent top 40 hit,"Greedy Fly," which sent thousands of teenagers into a mosh­ing frenzy. Gavin looked down in the pits (as one youngster's face began to ooze blood and another fell and was pounced on by wolves decked in baggy clothes) and smiled, seemingly delighting in the pain he induced. They played all of their top 40 hits, including an abom­inable "Swallowed," "everything zen," and "little things." Gavin attempted to be profound when he gave a somewhat stirring solo of "Glycerine," which ended with Gavin mounting one of the speakers. Following which, he raised his arms desiring applause. This act shows how uncer­tain Gavin is of himself and even his audience, and gives new meaning to the line in "everything zen," "search for your demigods." Clearly Gavin wants to achieve this status in the star-glazed eyes of America's youth. No matter how much I respected a band, if someone pulls this antic, it will surely deteriorate my image of them. 
ben folds five 


Despite these slight pitfalls, the music was fairly entertaining (if not uniform), high­lighted by the short but energetic "x-girlfriend," and the guitar powered "machinehead." Bush is a somewhat entertaining band, but by far lack any artistic merit whatsoever. Veruca Salt, the opening band, offers a strong contrast to Bush. Veruca Salt came out on stage without a pretentious attitude and put on a great show. It was quite clear that they were out there to have a good time by the way the two lead singers, the beautiful Louise Post and the lovely Nina Gordon, interacted with the crowd. For those of you who are familiar with the quin­tessential grunge band, Sonic Youth. Nina's sister Kim is the lead singer, so clearly talent is inher­ent in this family. They talked to the crowd and even flirted with the crowd, as their quirky pop music put a hop in the crowds' step without the violence induced by Bush's overpowering riffs. Veruca Salt played such MTV favorites as "Seether," and their newest single, "Volcano," yet they mixed it up with lesser known songs which still have the same, shall I say pizazz. Veruca Salt fans recognized their favorites such as the anthematic "Awesome," or their tribute to spider man. They manage to create meaningful yet fun music without sounding pompous or pre­tentious. Nina and Louise have a very mature stage presence despite their cute looks. They can defi­nitely hold their own, whether playing complex 
Courtesy of Outback Recordings guitar lines or laying down a strong base. They . manage to do this and are still able to dance around the stage with as much enthusiasm as the crowd. Veruca Salt proves that you do not need violent music or whiney lyrics ("swal­lowed") to maintain a following. In fact, by choosing the other route. they show a great deal of maturity. Veruca Salt one, Bush zero. 
~cl:n,r ~(

Whatever and Ever Amen 
I 
f anything that can be said for this trio from Chapel Hill, N.C. it is this: they swing. Their lat­est album Whatever and Ever Amen shows the unique style and bitter, funny lyrics that made them popular to begin with. 
Folds is a jazz pianist. There is no argument. lie has a mastery of complex time and dynamics. Every song is injected with an infectious groove that makes you want to get up off of your seat and dance. Even though the piano is a harmony instru­ment, the trio is rounded out by a rhythm section that adds an extra bounce to the songs and drives them along. 
"One angry dwarf and two hundred solemn faces" is a great introduction to the band's sound. It features a very solid groove on the bass, supple­mented by Folds' extensive soloing over top. It also features Folds' sometimes absurd lyrics talking about a little kid who was picked on all his life and is now back for revenge. 
Another great song is "Song for the Dumped," 
(out of five stars) 

which contains lyrics that could not be reprinted in this publication. The whole thing is done complete­ly tongue-in-cheek from the outset where the vocals are described as, "created to detract from the repetition inherent in modern instrumental pop music." 
Most songs deal with shattered relationships ­or at least unusual ones. Folds even explores this from the angle of someone that doesn't relate to anyone in "Battle of Who Could Care Less." This song relates to the apathy of the generation-x crowd and gives the album its title in the third verse. 
Altogether, this album gives the audience what they are looking for -a fun time with some good music. For a closer look at what they can do, you might want to catch them at the Metro in Chicago tonight at 7 p.m.. 
by Matt Loughran 
the cuba five 

~~~~

Am I Your World? 
L
ast Thursday I was shivering out by Stonehenge waiting for the Amnesty Concert to start and the PA system was playing this amaz­ing, drum-crazy song. I said to myself, "Hey, I know this song! What is this song?" Then I said to myself, "Oh yeah! It's emiLy. The most under-appre­ciated campus band ever." Well, now Doug McEachern and Mike Larmoyeux of emiLy play in the Cuba Five. Doug now prefers to sing and play guitar and write songs. Mike still proves why he's played bass for more campus bands than anyone, ever. Chris Concannon rolls and jumps on drums. 
Doug proudly wears his influences on his guitar pick -"Next To Nothing" and "Nation of Uselessness" immediately brought to mind old-school Jawbreaker; "Does This Answer Your Question?" runs like fully accompanied Billy Bragg; and "Beta Decay" scrapes and pops like Unwound. This makes sense since those are Doug's favorite artists. The fact that Cuba Five can pull off the above unlikely mix makes am i your world? the best campus-band rock and roll recording I've heard (excluding those other 
(out of five stars) 

wonder-kids featured this week in Accent). 
Lyrically, the Cuba Five pump a much needed voice into Notre Dame ears, as Doug sinks his teeth into rock poseurs from MTV to Indie: "Your careful style stolen from 25 years ago/ Your spontaneous poses and press releases passing as liner notes/Hold little weight next to our cheap cassettes and photocopies/A crowded basemenUA handful of smiles and a bottle of cheap wine." There's also a fair share of love songs too. 
As this is the last review I shall ever write for The Observer, I shall make a call to arms of all campus musicians. Pick up an instrument! Find someone else who just picked up and instrument! Mix it up, break it down, bust a move! Make NAZZ a three-day event! When I come back here I want "The Rock" to be universally known as a musical battle cry from students, not some old brick building with sweaty people in it. 
by Brent DiCrescenzo 
Courtesy of Rent to Own Records 



Thursday, April 24, 1997 
page 13 
-

chisel 
Set You Free 

(out of five stars) 

I
t's come to the point wlwn most Domers don't even know or remmnber Chisel. This is sad. Let me fix that. Chisel, AKA Ted L('o, Chris Norberg and John Dugan, were the hallmark campus band of the early 90s. Up until I1J<J4 NAZZ. they graced us with their presence. I'm gu1~ssing no one prob­ably voted the shaggy boys "Most Likely to Succeed." lla! Look who's roeking now! Not XYZ Affair. that's who. 
What I'm about to sav is not for school loyalty. campus musi<" p;·idn or promotional reasons -Chisel can outrock. or at least rock with, any band that I can think of. Their sound keeps getting cat<:hiN and catchier like grow­ing fields of f1ypap1'r and lighter and tighter like a screw under a l11•rrulnan screwdriver. Set You Free can l)('st lw dl·scribed as a Free Trade Agreement bntm~~~n the 13eatles, the Jam. Fugazi, Clwap Trirk. Hlur, and Sloan­basically the best or tlw bands that can raise the roof and sweet1•n tlH' tooth. Set You Free is a continuous connl'l·ting l'light between D.C. and England. 
Chisel's sound has slol\·lv evolved from Australopithecus to 1-:instl'in. ·i·nd used to wear a straight-edge bun: ru1 and play hardcore; now thr. boy has a mod lllop top and song writ­ing abilities out th1• 1\·azZllll. lll'<"k. thr.re's even 
suede 
Coming Up 
(out of five stars) 

S 
ucde in Anwrira IIIII\' r1~quire the addi­tion of "London." du<' to the complaints of an irrl'ln1·ant minnow who also uses the same nanH'. a nonentity whose journey through till' 11·orld or music will be as unnotieed as it will short. 
In stark comparison. (t hi' proper) Suede's third album stands out <IS 1wrhaps their best yet, and the last t\\o 1\'1'1'1' both excellent. The only change in the linPup is 1ww drummer Neil Codling, and thankrully voralist Brett Anderson and guitarist/lyricist l!irhard Oakes still remain, the former maintaining his habit of putting everything IH• has into every song, and it pays off handsonwly. 
As with their previous work. tlw first track is the best; "Trash," is an imnwnscly catchy and energetic anthem with <~nough cynicism to dis­pel any thoughts ol" IJiandnnss -"or maybe, maybe its our no\\IH~rl' towns. our nothing places and our rellophaJH' sounds." warbles Brett, and he tlwn adds IJ~· way of a chorus, "just trash, me and you. it's in everything we do." Brilliant. Following this comes "Filmstar," a slower, funkier track with r.rashing guitars 
Courtesy of Gem Blandsten Records 

horns, acoustic guitars, and keyboards seam­lessly mixed into the trademark kinetic "oh­whoa" punky jangle. 
The tunes now range from the Beatles' "Oh Dear Friends" to arena bass-rumble of "Privileged & Impotent" to the very Built To Spill-ish guitar anthem "The Last Good Time" to the teasing riff-heavy "On Warmer Music." 
After one listen of "Morley Timmons" I want­ed to hijack one of those tiny orange Huddle trucks, load it up with speakers, and drive around campus blasting the four-part master­piece. The ending has more drama than Merchant Ivory, and makes the head tilt back, eyes roll up, and arms air guitar in full splen­dor. 
Forget that money you were stashing for "The Shirt '97." You NEED this album. 
by Brent DiCrescenzo 

Courtesy of Columbia Records 

and a lush set of edgy vocals. With "Lazy" we find another superbly produced tune, and the remainder of the album is of similar merit. The pace varies from time to time, precluding bore­dom, and throughout there is the sense that Suede are determined to be written off no more as lucky journeymen (an insult some now word-eating critics once hurled, foolishly). As with a few bands from Britain, the grand suc­cess Suede enjoy at home has not translated into popularity this side of the Atlantic, and if this situation were ever to be rectified, "Coming Up" is the album to do it. In the words of two well-known amateur music critics, this doesn't just rock, it rules. 
by Julian Elliott. 
1. 
Blur-Blur 

2. 
Daft Punk -Homework 


3. 
Pond-Rock Collection 

4. 
Pavement -Brighten the Corners 


5. The Saint soundtrack 
CLASSICAL COLUMN 

A Double Dose of Opera 
.. 

and MICHAEL ANDERSON 
·•·M····.··a;·····.•.·.n·.·····.~ t.'nd.iy·i·d···.·.uals a.rou.n~ campus have wondere~
: · why Notre Dame doesn t put on Broadway mus1­cals. Wouldn't it be wonderful to be able to skip the Cushing movie-of-the-week and go see your 
.Pl:lers act and sing in, say, LesMiserables or Joseph and the 
Amazing Tf:lchnicolor Dreamcoat? Although there continues to be no musicals at ND, we do have an annual opera, which historically brought forth what we now call musicals. Each year. the Opera Workshop puts on ~. full,scale opera at Washington Hall, with a cast of very talented stUdents. The past two years, the operas have been Mozartian operas. This year, the music department is branching out. 
If you lik~. the idea of musical theater but are just unwill­ing to go toChicago:s Lyric Opera, here is your chance to watch high quality opera productions right here under the Dome. 
.This Monday and Tuesday at 8 p.m., the Notre Dame Opera Wprkshop will put on a double-your-pleasure feature at Washington Hall: Maurice Ravel's "L'Enfant et les Sortileges,'' followed by Pergolesi's "La Serva Padrona." 
We highly recommend that you see the productions of this year -theperformers are highly talented, and there is tons of comedy built into both operas. What a fitting study break during that last week of classes. 
Junior Michelle Holden stars in the jazz opera "L'Enfant etles Sortit(lges." Sources tell us that she is vocally robust, not to mention hilarious in her role. Judging from her roles in previous years' operas, we know what talent she has. This opera also features graduate students Steve Salzgeher and Earle Perez, as well as undergraduates Megan McCormick and Jeff Cloninger. 
Ravel, an Impressionist composer. wrote this opera in 1924. It is a very atypical opera; according to diva Holden: "this is a good opera for people not familiar with operas to see -iUs witty, entertaining, interesting ... nothing like a classical opera.'' 
Ravel based the plot of "L'Enfant et les Sortileges" on his understanding of youth and nat.ure, as drawn from his own r~lations~ip with his. mother.. The cast of characters is highly unconventional: an 8-year-old and a teapot (conjure up images of "Re Our Guest...''), as well as cats, squirrels and host of inanimate objects. 
The plot)~ a fairly common theme -the child refuses to do his homework, so his mother condemns him to his room andforces him to eat dry bread and drink sugarless tea. The child promptly rebels with a grand temper tantrum, smashing t~ings ap.~torturipg. his pets. However, as he is al:)out t(l s:~ttle into an armchair, it rebels against him and IliOVes avvay. Presently, the objects and animals in the room come alive and sing of the torment that the child has ,P~{thelll f.mgh~ !I) th~ end, aprincess from a story book collles ·· the child realizes that destructiveness will 
· · get him: . .··· ere. · · ·· ·· 
•.. This opeJ:a is famous for its "meow" duet at the end of Act One, where two cats sing (meow) of the woes wrought upon b hild. isj:lrawn from a variety of genres n ope U)C udiilgjazz. ragtime, and 18th-cen­ydance. ·.·· The second. opera on the program, Giambattista ···· oles ~ervji. Padrop.~~ is more of a typical opera ."{.;' . et le!) Sortileges/' It features junior Laura tune; e angelic soprano who has widely been ac¢laimed on campus. 
"La Se~y~J'adrona;;'a com!c opera, was written in 1733, and is comprised of a cast ofjust two singing characters and a third silent actor. This lighthearted work is generally considered to be the beginning of the opera buffa genre ­:tVhich wo1.1Id later influence c;omposers like Mozart. In one actwith two.parts, the plotrevolves around the two charac­ters: Serpina, a clever servant and Umberto, her master. Through her sharp wit and ingenuity, Serpina is able to ele­vate her station in life and achieve equality with her mas­ter. 
However, do not let the ancient date, the simple plot or the unusual casting technique fool you. The opera is much like the latest development on Beverly Hills 90210 -A scandalol.l~relatiop.~hip Jull of deception, anxiety and games; two attractive individuals drawn to each other for all the right reasons but caught in two totally different worlds. · · 
.~o whet~e~ you arf( starved for musicals, need a study break, inte1~sted injazz,comedy or simply interested in the students performing, come to the Opera Workshop on Monday or Tuesday atWashington Hall. 
-
page 14 The Observer· SPORTS Thursday, April 24, 1997 

-
• BOOKSTORE BASKETBALl 
Women's Basketball, Sweet 16 Tournament Results 
Wake 'em up def. At Least We Won't Miss Pigtostal Dinov 21-12 
21-2 Pretzel Specials def. Stroke and Dribble 21-3 Team 13 def. The Busdrivers 21-7 5 Pyros and a Plummer def. Nuns on the Run 21-11 Run'n Gun def. SKB's Favorites 21-5 Quick Get Out the Milk def. SKB's Least Favorites Chemistry def. Leaping Lizards 21-7 21-10 Pangborn Frosh def. Mother Superior and the Players Only def BMF's 21-10 
Pagans 21-8 Specs def. C.B.S. 21-5 Irells Belles def. The Amico 5 21-5 Sweet def. Four Girls ... 22-20 Grantham def. Diabolique 21-17 These are the Days de f. Rand MeNally 21-19 Don't be Hasty ... Just Sleep on it def. Shut Your Hole, Today's Games will be played between 4 and 6:15 at Stepan. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. 
Classifieds Deadline for next-day classitleds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
NOTRE DAME FOOTBALL MEMO­ ENTRANCE, UTILITIES PAID.  ing swivel barstools. Great for  call4-1021.  I am Fuzzy Zeoller  
NOTICES  RABILIA WANTED TICKET STUBS PROGRAMS JERSEYS CASH  272-0615.  house or apartment. Bought new this year-must sell!! $175 obo.  $18 lower level Steve Miller tickets  FRESHMEN!!  
PAID 2773097  Staying for summer school?  Call Gina at 288-9278.  still available for a 4/25 concert at  JOIN THE 1998 SOPHOMORE  
THE COPY SHOP  Apartment at College Park for rent.  the JACC. Call Ash leigh at 1-7757  LITERARY FESTIVAL COMMIT­ 
LaFortune Student Center  Available -Part-time Retail Sales  Good Location, Parking,  Cable T.V. descrambler.  and leave a message with how  TEE! Meet fellow sophomores(to  
Phone 631-COPY  Clerk  Nice/Clean, Sun  Descrambles all premium  many you need. Brought to you by  be), bring world famous poets to  
Mon.: 7:30a.m. -Midnight  Pandora's Books 808 Howard -Just  Deck, Washer/Dryer. Call 243-9360.  channels including  SUB.  campus, and have a blast doing it!  
Tues.: 7:30a.m. -Midnight  off of Notre Dame Ave.  "Pay-Per View". Works in South  Applications available now and next  
Wed.: 7:30a.m.-Midnight  Call 233-2342 10AM-5Pm  2 BDRM, 2 Bath, W/0, Dishwasher,  Bend. Call: 277-3899  week at the SUB office, 201 LaFun.  
Thur.: 7:30 a.m. -Midnight  Micro. Close to campus. Suitable  Need Grad. tix. for family. Call  Encourage your friends to apply!  
Fri.: 7:30a.m. -7:00 p.m.  Needed: Nanny. Nice little girls.  for grad student or Prof. in Jamison  TV /stereo ctr. & love seat w/pull out  Janina 243-1382  
Sat.: Noon-6:00p.m.  Nice house. Nice neighborhood.  Condos. Available June 1 thru May  bed. Very nice, I just can't take  well, R, if i said it in cyberspace, i  
Sun.: Noon -Midnight  273-3010.  31. $800. (818)968-7030.  them home! call Janine 243-1382.  Need one ticket for graduation.  guess i can say it in print, too. te  
Open Early, Late, & Weekends  Call Sean at x2088  quiero. A  
ARE YOU GETTING RID OF  Hey! Sublease by 1 bdrm at  PowerMac 7100/66 with memory  
J U N ORS!!!  YOUR LOFT?  Campus View for the summer. 1 or  upgrade, ResNet capabilities;  I need 2 x-tra grad tix!!l  PRINT FROM DISK  
MY SON NEEDS IT.  2 people. Andrew x3652  Laserwriter; and 15" monitor for  Will pay, call Karen x4588  PRINT FROM DISK  
U SUBMIT PRINTED COPY  WILL BUY IT.  sale. $900 firm for a entire setup.  PRINT FROM DISK  
OF RESUME AND DISK  PLEASE CALL 282-2229 AFTER 6  SUMMER RENT. Mid-June to mid­ Call Kevin x4077  NEEDED  Very high-quality full-color output is  
N TO CAREER & PLACE­ PM.  August. Delightful faculty home,  2 graduation tix  now available at THE COPY SHOP  
MENT SERVICES FOR  very near campus. Phone: 233­ Men's Trek mountain bike.  CALL LIZ @232-7839  in the LaFortune Student Center.  
RESUME BOOKS NOW!  ASST. FOOTBALL COACH­ 0743.  Excellent condition. $200 or best  Bring in your computer disk to print  
OPENING FOR 1997-98 FOOT­ offer. Call Kevin @ 257-0653.  your files. We support PowerPoint,  
0 DEADLINE: BEFOREYOU LEAVE CAMPUS IN MAY.  BALL SEASON. CONTACT HEAD COACH  FOR SALE  Need Furniture? For sale­ NEED 2 GRADUATION TIXS for my Irish relatives!!  Photoshop, Illustrator, Pagemaker, and many many more types of files.  
R  NEIL WAGNER 219-842-3389  bed,couches, lamp, etc. Diana 271­ Call KATHRYN at 273-4486  It only costs a $1 plus the regular  
89' Dog. Caravan. V. Good  2947  color copy price for the first ten  
s  Family seeks loving, responsible,  Condition. $ 1690 o/bo. Call Jihad  files, then just the regular color  
fun person to help care for 2 chil­ 277-3254  88 Honda CRX Si.  I have 4 STEVE MILLER  copy price for over ten files. We  
PENNY IS COMING .........  dren while we move. Approx. 5/15  V. good condition inside & out.  student tix together, $18 each  can print directly onto overhead  
thru 6/1 0; 20-30 hours/wk. $6 per  "FURNITURE-Futon $100 Chair  Must sell. $3,000 offer.  call Steve at x1891 or x0699  transparencies too!  
ILOST & FOUND I  hr. References and own transporta­tion needed.  $50 273-8673  27 inch T.V. Cheap.  PRINT FROM DISK PRINT FROM DISK  
Sue 233-6657.  SEIZED CARS from $175.  PRINT FROM DISK  
LOST-Silver Olympus Stylus Camera  BABYSITTER WANTED!!  Porsches, Cadillacs, Chevys, BMW's, Corvettes. Also Jeeps,  Furniture For Sale.  PERSONAL  I am Fred Funk  
on April 12 Reward-call Cas 4-11 07  Mother of 4 is looking for a babysit­ 4WD's. Your area. Toll Free  Call: 277-3899  
ter in her Granger home for the  1-800-218-9000 Ext. A-2013  FAX IT FAST!!!  
Lost -green bookbag with diskette  1997-98 school year (hours approx.  for current listings.  STEVE MILLER  Sending & Receiving  SABOR LATINO  
box, COs, class notebooks inside.  3:30-6) and also for the summer. If  at  
Lost at NOH on Mon. Apr. 14th.  interested, please contact Lisa at  FOR SALE: 10' Burmese Python  CENTER STATE  THE COPY SHOP  Chicago last week, now  
Very important.  273-0851.  and 7.5' Albino Burmese  FLOOR SEATS  LaFortune Student Center  back in South Bend!  
Call Paul  Great temperments.  1ST 10 ROWS  Our Fax# (219) 631-FAXI  
atx2018  FOR RENT  $200 OBO, cage and heat included.  272-7233  FAX IT FAST!!!  Friday Apr. 25 10:30 pm-2 am  
LOST:  Call Jeff at 283-0739 for details.  Jazzman's  
silver lacrosse stick bracelet  Near Campus  SEIZED CARS from $175.  Need some info but don't know  
If found please call Colleen @  Homes for 97-98  FOR SALE:  Porsches, Cadillacs, Chevys,  where to turn?  SABOR LATINO  
273-1130  232-2595  NEW 27" TV, 2 ENTERTAINMENT  BMW's, Corvettes. Also Jeeps,  Call COUNSELINE Mon-Thurs  
UNITS, 4 COUCHES! CALL  4WD's. Your area. Toll Free  from 4pm-12am at 1-7793 to hear  
LOST: KEYS in the area  5 Bdrms. in private home. Near  CARLA AT 243-9282!  1-800-218-9000 Ext. A-2013  professionally audiotaped materials.  I am Dick Trickle  
between Stepan center and  campus. Safe neighborhood. Use of  See pg 3 of your ND/SMC phone­ 
North Quad. Please call  all facilities. 225/mo. 232-2794  '81 OLDS CUTLASS,  Desk w/Lamp & Chair, $25; Bike  book for a list of tapes.  
X3097. Thanks!  Paul.  4-DR, t-OWNER, NEW MOTOR.  w/helmet & lock, $30; Bedframe  Sponsored by the UCC and  BRING YOUR OLD GYM  
CALL 273-2241 .  w/mattress, $15; Kitchen Table w/4  Psychology club.  SHOES to the St. Ed's Carnival  
PLEASE HELP ME!  Two NO grads ('95) are looking for  Chairs  Let Counseline help you!  Tomorrow... A LIL' man will be  
one or two others (M or F) to share  J@#@$%%A%•&%&A$%#$@#  there to make a trade with you!!! II  
I CAN'T SEE .... I  a HUGE 4 bdrm apt in Chicago for  Couch, beds, shelves for sale. Call  
the summer. Call 773/695-2545 for  APARTMENT SALE  243-9357  Family Needs Graduation  Deb- 
LOST MY GLASSES!  info.  Tickets-Please Help!  You're a fluffing idiot.  
CALL JULIE @ 273-4486  PC For Sale  Christian 273-6967  
WHERE AM I?  3 BDRM HOUSE 814 N. ST.  "Great for ALL school work"  Hey there little lady- 
Brown Case: Brooks Brothers  LOUIS. AVAIL SUMMER & FALL '97. CALL 234-1440.  !@$%#$%&""&$#$@$#@&%$ !@$%#$A&%"A%$A#$@$%1\  486, 8 MB RAM, CD-ROM, WIN 95, MS Office 97, & more! $345 232-4396  •••••••••••••••••••••••••••••......Tons of Furniture!  What the heck? You come all the way up here and not even a hello? I see how it is.  
REWARD IF FOUND: PLEASE  NICE HOMES NORTH OF NO FOR  ... Really, Really Cheap  
CALL KELLY .... 243-9403  NEXT SCHOOL YEAR 2773097  APARTMENT SALE  TAKE HOME A SLICE OF NOTRE  Jamie, I would.  
DAME HISTORY. Copies of early  Couches ... Chairs ... Dressers..  
LOST: A gold necklace & heart  POTATO HOUSE 8 BEDROOM  CALL SARAH OR KERIN @  1960s Scholastics available-donat­ Tables...Beds ... Bookcases ...  Bryan.  
charm with a sapphire stone and  FOR NEXT SCHOOL YEAR  243-9034  ed by an alumnus to raise funds for  Lamps...Kitchen Stuff...and  I thought you'd want another hello  
small diamond: lost 4115 on campus. Reward for return.  2773097  J@$%#%•&A$%#$@%$%A&%  a campus publication. Phone 631­5099.  some! We can even deliver! Call287-4876  in the personals before you come back to the States. Pass it on to  
Call Lisa x2688.  SUMMER RENTALS  Courtenay, Barb, et. al. See you at  
AVAILABLE  88 Honda Accord. LX, air, Am/Fm  the Cape.  
WANTED  HOUSES <;:LOSE TO CAMPUS -WILL TAKE MULTIPLE STU­DENTS- cassette, great condition. $4400. 219-273-3061  TICKETS  PROFESSIONAL SUMMER STOR­AGE. Collegiate Student Storage offers On Campus and Off Campus  Lover, Happy Birthday!  
LOW SUMMER RATES­ 82 VW Pop-Up camper, great con­ Pick up and Delivery, Boxes,  I am at your beckon call today­ 
Family seeks loving, responsible,  UTILITIES INCLUDED, WASH­ dition, sleeps 4, kitchen. $4,700.  Insurance, Tape and Packing  which really doesn't distinguish it  
fun person to help care for 2 chil­dren while we move. Approx. 5/15  ERS/DRYERS, ALARM SYSTEMS  219-273-3061  Need Graduation Tickets Desparately. Please help!  Materials Included. Call Now to Reserve Your Space at 800 3  from any other day, slave woman that I am...  
thru 6/1 0; 20-30 hours/wk. $6 per hr. References and own transporta­ AVAILABLE JUNE 1 OR SOONER.  TWIN BED FOR SALE BEST OFFER  Brian-287-4876 Thank You  STORE 9 (BOO 378-6739).  Have a good day-you're the sexiest boxer in the whole world.  
tion needed.  CALL 674-2571 MARK KRAMER,  CALL CRISTINA  NEED GRADUATION TICKETS!  Love Me.  
Sue 233-6657  DOMUS PROPERTIES  243-9172  CALL JENNY AT 243-9282  P.S. Schmorgisbourg.  
Do you have an extra GRADUA­ 
WANTED: MOUNTAIN BIKE­ 3-4 BDRM HOUSE.  SOFA-5 Sections, $50 OBO  TION TICKET(S)? Will pay well!!  J U N 0 R S !!!  KEOUGH,  
Will pay some $$$ David-234-1840  AVAIL AUG.  CALL 288-2314  Please call Paige at X4011  The ALLIANCE can't be broken  
2 FULL BATHS, APPL. FURN.  U SUBMIT PRINTED COPY  because WE'RE NOT GONNA  
PART TIME CUSTOMER RELA­ ATTACH. 2-CAR GARAGE & OFF­ COMPUTERS  NEED GRADUATION TICKETS.  OF RESUME AND DISK  TAKE IT!  
TIONS Positions available evenings  STREET PARKING. 683-6591.  486DX 33$400., 486DX 66$500., Pentium 120Mhz. 16 EDO, 1.08  WILL PAY$$$. ETHAN 4-1659.  N TO CAREER & PLACE­MENT SERVICES FOR  Love, CAVANAUGH  
4-9 Mon-Fri or 10-6:30 on week­ GB, BX COD, 33.6 Modem  RESUME BOOKS NOW!  
ends from April through  SUBLET at COLLEGE PARK  $950.00, Kantek 271-2573. Also  STEVE MILLER  
August/September. Our busy call center is looking for candidates with excellent phone skills and a desire  $175/mo Part Furnished; 2 Bed/2 Bath .5 m from ND  build to order, trade. MOVING OFF-CAMPUS?  CENTER STAGE FLOOR SEATS  0 DEADLINE: BEFORE YOU LEAVE CAMPUS IN MAY. R  They said it couldn't be done. They thought they'd never see it... oei  
to satisfy our customers.  Call243-9198  LAFAYETTE RESIDENTS SELL­ 
- Dependability an absolute must. Starting pay is $8.00 per hour, $9.00 per hour on weekends. Apply  Going abroad? Do you need hous­ing for spring semester next year?  ING FURNITURE: 2 Comfy Couches, 2-3 Twin Beds (Bought new this year). Entertainment  FIRST 10 ROWS 272-7233  s SOUND TECHS NEEDED!!!!  I like my friend Fig because she needs to find a job so she can live in the forest.  
at Oualex Inc .. a wholly owned sub­sidiary of Eastman Kodak. 921 Louise St.. South Bend. IN 46615. We support a drug free workplace. EOE  Call 243-9430 or 1540 for informa­tion. FURNISHED ROOM NEAR CAM­PUS. AIR. KITCHEN, PRIVATE  Center, Antique Desk. Call 288­9278 for info. BAR AND BARSTOOLS FOR SALE: Black Vinyl bar with 2 match- I NEED GRADUATION TIX!! WILL PAY BIG$$!! X2369 I need 1 graduation tickel. Please  Student Activities is accepting applications for Sound Techs for 97-98 academic year. Applications available in 315 LaFortune.  K.K. Keep· smilin'. Only 1 more week.  



------~--~·----~--~--­
Thursday, April 24, 1997 The Observer • SPORTS page 15 
.NBA EASTERN CONFERENCE 
WESTERN CONFERENCE 
Mason, Johnson not
First round Semifinals Finals Finals Semifinals First round (best-of-5) (best-of-7) (best-of-7) (best-of-7) (best-of-7) (best-of-5) 
Utah 1 

talking to reporters 
~~~~~~-----, 
By CHRIS SHERIDAN 
.-------lr~.-~.. ~·;;~~:~~--~ 
Associated Press 
8Washington!J -, 
1 4Atlanta 5Detroit 
2Miami 7Orlando 
3New York
----·-·-·--····-··-1. 16 Charlotte jt------' 


Ever wonder why PLS students bring Plato, Dante, and Virginia Woolf to lunch instead of leaving them in the classroom? 
The answer is not only because PLS is demanding and fulfilling but because WE HAVE FUN. 
Interested in reading great authors from Homer to Ellison in small groups with professors who have a special commitment to undergraduate education? 
St. Edward's
THE PROGRAM OF LIBERAL STUDIES 
Ch~!e~~Xunk~!~~d~val 
at our dunk tank: 
......------~
recently selected as an 
"Outstanding Example of the Best in American Higher Education" 
We are accepting applications for the entering 
and many more!
Sophomore Class until April 3o. Applications are now 
dunking all day on North Quad 
available in 215 O'Shaugnessy. 
Don't miss Troop ND at 3:30 
Mill, S.C., Mason was no more accommodating -although not quite as ornery -to reporters who waited for hours
AP 

for him to leave the Hornets' practice facility. 
"Hello and goodbye. Write what you want to write," Mason said before speeding away in his black Mercedes. "I told you I wasn't talking. I thought y'all were more edu­cated than to wait around." 
So much for any new com­ments or war of words between the players traded for each other last summer. Both seem to think that silence is the best approach before tip­off. 
Mason, normally the talka­tive type, has been more or less mum over the past few months regarding the trade that ended his five-year run with the Knicks. 
Back when he was speaking about it, Mason claim-ed the move was orchestrated by Patrick Ewing -with whom he didn't always get along. 
Mason had signed a long­term contract extension just a year earlier, and he claimed general manager Ernie Grunfeld told him he would be with the Knicks for the long haul. 
"I felt more or less betrayed and disappointed," Mason said. "But that's neither here nor there now. I'm with a team that wants me." 
And it's a team that has af­forded him the opportunity to have a breakout season. · 
Mason has been one of the main reasons the Hornets had the best record in franchise history. Averaging a league­best 43.2 minutes per game, Mason had four triple-doubles and averaged eareer-highs of 
16.2 points, 11.4 rebounds and 
5. 7 assists while playing the power forward spot for Charlotte. 
In New York, Mason played small forward because Charles Oakley was the power forward. But in Charlotte, Mason has been able to utilize his low­post strengths and stay close enough to the basket to keep within range of his 10-to-12 foot jump. 
"When he's good, he's awful­ly good," Charlotte coach Dave Cowens said Wednesday. "There's really not that many people that can deal with him at that position, especially when he takes the ball out on the floor." 
Johnson, on the other hand, went from power forward to Mason's old small forward spot on the Knicks. 
His scoring average dipped from 20.5 in his final season with Charlotte to 12.8 in his first year with the Knicks. 
Coach Jeff Van Gundy has often kept Johnson on the bench during the fourth quar­ter of close games, using a three-guard alignment instead. 
-
-
...... 

NEW YORK 

Those wanting to talk about the Larry Johnson for Anthony Mason trade will have to talk among themselves. The two are keeping their thoughts se­cret heading into Game. 1 of the Hornets-Knicks series. 
"Get away from me, you evil men of writing," Johnson told reporters in Charleston, S.C., where the Knicks wrapped up a three-day minicamp Wednesday before flying back to New York for Thursday night's opener of the best-of-5 series. 
Some 180 miles away in Fort 
-

page 16 
• SOFTBAll 

Rolling Irish take two from lowly Bulldogs 
By ALLISON KRILLA out so strong in the beginning Sports Writer that it was easy to lose focus," said McMahon. "I think we 
The Notre Dame softball played half the game with team continued its winning focus and the other half with­ways yesterday, sweeping a out." double-header against the vis­Nichols, recently plagued by iting Butler Bulldogs in decisive tendonitis in her right arm, fashion. The 8-3 and 8-1 victo­pitched four strong innings of ries improved the team's over­one-hit ball to earn the win, all record to 30-19. her lOth of the season. 
"Especially in the first game, "I felt good today," said we started focused, but once Nichols. "My arm's feeling we knew it would be a blowout, really good right now." we let up a little bit," said Angela Bessolo picked up her pitcher Kelly Nichols. first save of 1997 and just the 
In game one, Notre Dame second of her career, allowing overcame sloppy defense with three runs on five hits after re­a strong offensive perfor­lieving Nichols to start the fifth. mance, pounding out 11 hits, The Irish came out swinging including five singles in a six­in game two, scoring eight runs run second inning. Third base­on 10 hits. McMahon again man Kara McMahon led the powered the Irish from the charge for the Irish, going 2-number two spot in the lineup, for-4 with two RBis and one going 2-for-3 with two RBis. run scored. Pinch hitter Amy Freshman Sarah Mathison Laboe came through in the went 2-for-2 with one RBI and clutch again, securing the vic­one run scored. Four runners tory with a two-run single in crossed the plate for Notre the third to close out the scor­Dame in the fifth inning, high­ing for the Irish. lighted by McMahon's two-run 
"In the first game, we came single to left. 
Memorial Mass 
for 
Prof. Kok-Wee Phan 
Depanment of Mathematics 
Friday, April25, 5:00pm Basilica ofthe Sacred Heart 
Celebrant: Fr. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C. 

Chinese -American Restaurant and Cocktail Lounge 
Authentic Szechuan, Mandarin and Hunan Cuisine 

Lunches starting at ....$4.25 Dinners starting at ....$5.95 Banquet rooms available for up to 200 
CR£AT \VALL 
Bar and Restaurant open 7 days a week 
I30 Dixie Way N .• South Bend (next to Howard Johnson) 
Apexx is a new computer sales and service company in the Michiana area. We are dedicated to providing quality service at co~petitive rates. Whether you need a new system to meet your increasing needs as a student or professional, or your current computer needs fine tuning, Apexx is the solution. 
271-76 
Thursday, April 24, 1997 
The Observer/Brandon Candura 


Senior Kara McMahon led a powerful offensive attack with four RBis in two games against Butler. 
-
-
Joy Battersby looked strong in her seven innings of work, picking up her fourth straight win, to improve to 8-6 on the season. 
"Joy's come on really strong," said McMahon. "IIaving a small staff is hard, but (Bessolo) and (Battersby)· have been stepping up to give (Nichols) some time off." 
Despite the relatively easy wins, the Irish felt that they reaped the benefits of the dou­ble header. 
"In the second game, we tried to stay focused the whole time," said Nichols. "These games were good because we need to get on the dirt as much 
the world 
as possible. Rutgers will prob­ably be a team just like Butler, so it was good to have played them (yesterday)," 
"Right now it's important to be consistent," said McMahon. "We can't afford even one bad inning against the teams we will be facing in the tourna­ments." 
is getting smaller smell better. 
G)
... 
ca
...
·­
·-E 



Thursday April 24, 1997 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 17 
The University of Notre Dame 
cordially invites you to attend a 
special evening celebrating the life 
and ministry of 

Brother Roger 
o Taize 
1996 Notre Dame Award recipient 
Thursday, 

April 24, 1997 
7:15 p.m. 
Basilica of the Sacred Heart 

Taize prayer and song led by the Notre Dame Folk Choir 
7:30p.m. 
Basilica of the Sacred Heart 

Prayer service and presentation of the Notre Dame Award to Brother Rage" followed by his reflections 
8:15 p.m. Corby Hall 

Reception for all present with an opportunity to meet Brother Roger 

Brother Roger is the founder and prior of the ecumenical Taize community in eastern France. For more than half a century, Brother Roger and his companions have borne witness to Christ in an increasingly secular society. Their joy, mercy and simplicity provide a tantalizing glimpse of what Christ's church, healed and reunified, is called to become. The liturgies at Taize combine elements of the 
. 

Catholic, Orthodox, and Protestant traditions. Their distinctive, meditative chants of Scriptural verses are popular throughout the world. 
--iI 
·­

page 18 Thursday, April 24, 1997 


-
-
Story 
continued from page 24 
freshman defensive lineman's meteoric rise has caught more than a few off guard. 
"He's the surprise of the spring, no question," said Irish head coach Bob Davie. "We knew we had a talented player with him, but we had no idea he'd develop like this. I think he's surprised pretty much ev­eryone." 
That's an understatement. Recruited as a 6-foot-1, 248­pound linebacker, Legree came to Notre Dame with little shot at earning a starting role. But a position switch and a stellar spring have earned Legree the No. 1 job at nose guard. 
"I didn't really set any goals or say I wanted to do this or that," said Legree. "I just wanted to come in and do my best to help the team. I didn't really have anything in mind other than that." 
With the departure of Alton Maiden, it was anyone's guess who would wind up in the mid­dle for the Irish. Sophomore Antwon Jones and freshman Jim Jones entered spring as the likely candidates, but Legree has come from nowhere to stake his claim as the starter. 

• SPORTS BRIEFS 
Climbing Wall Orientations are available at the climbing wall in the Rockne Memorial every Sunday at 1 p.m. and Wednesday at 6 p.m. Sign-up outside the wall. 
Drop-in Volleyball RecSports will be offering Drop-In Volleyball on Tuesday's from 7-10 p.m. in the Joyce Center. No estab· lished teams or advanced sign-ups necessary. 
Special Olympics Volunteers are needed to help Special Olympic swimmers. Practices are at Rolfs Aquatic Center on Mondays and Wednesdays from 4:30-5:30 
p.m. For more info, call coach Dennis Stark at 1-5983. 
RecSports will be hiring two full-time, one part-time, and numerous substitutes to lifeguard at the St. Joseph Lake Beach this summer. Please contact Greg at 1-51 00 or come to RecSports office at the Joyce Center to fill out an application. 
Redbud Fine Art Workshop May 19-31, 1997 3 Credit Courses 
Cost: $850 (Tuition and Room/Board) 
Field Biology --FULL Papermaking Ceramics Sculpture 
SMC Department ofArt Call Now: 284-4655 or 284-4631 
Deadline: Friday~ May 2 

"He has worked hard from day one and has done every­thing we've asked him to do," said Davie. "He looks comfort­


able in the middle and has the potential to get better. Lance Legree is a guy who has really stepped up for us." 
A native of St. Stephen, S.C., 
ORE BASKETBAlL XXVI 
Legree has bulked up consider­ably since coming to Notre Dame last August, adding near­ly 25 pounds to his frame. 
.....

Even with the increase in size, he has displayed the lateral movement necessary to contain the run. 
"He can really be an asset up front because of his ability to clog the middle," said line­backer Kory Minor. "He is a 
younger guy playing a new position, but he looks like he's been playing there forever. He has really been there for us this spring." 
What was once a deficiency has all of a sudden become a strength. When Melvin Dansby 
Malicious Prosecution (2) Vanilla Kernals (15) 
Primetirue (7) Vanilla Thuunder (10) 
Dos Geses (6) Bring Out the Gimp Ill (11) 
Muddy Waters (3) Yin and Yang (14) 

and Brad Williams return from injuries and with veterans Corey Bennett, Kurt Belisle, and Shelton Jordan in the mix, the defensive line should more than hold its own this falL 
"We've got a lot of different options up front, so we are going to be fine there," said Davie. "Lance Legree is going to get a lot of time for us up front." 
!··············· 
'4,..,ahiiJ ._,.,...1111 ...,.. .,.,...1Stor1112 on -.lord..,. 
The new 1998 fOrd bcort ~ 

the exciting new Ford Escon ZX2, aterrific wav to orab life bv
While there mav be lots of uood deals out there lor smart the wheel. BID run. For more College Graduate Purchase Program
people. this one is available onlv to college seniors and orad students. Get $400 cash bacll* toward the purchase or $650 info, caii1-BDD-321-1536 or visit the web at www.tord.com 
'To be eligible, you must graduate w1th an associate's or bachelor's degree between 10/1/95 and 113/98
cash bacll* toward the Red Camet Lease (Or Red Camet Option) 
or be currently enrolled 1n graduate schooL You must purchase or lease your new vehicle between 1/4/97 of anv eligible Ford or Mercurv. sman ooino. And that includes and 1/3/98. Some customer and vehicle eligibility restnctions apply See your dealer for details. 

College Graduate Purchase Program Mercury iJ 




Thursday, April 24, 1997 
.NBA 
Starks wins Sixth Man award 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK 
JohrtStarks of the New York Knicks won the NBA's Sixth Man award on Wednesday: 
The New York guard received §4 of a possible 115 first-place votes in votirt.g among II1~~ia members in tM UnHed States and Canada. Toni Kqkoc of the Chicago Bulls, last year's winner, wa:s second:.with seven first-place votes and Chris Gatling of the New Jersey Nets finished third with six. 
Starks' winning margin was the biggest since Portland's Clifford Robinson got 89 of 98 votes in 1993. 
Voting, administered by the league, is done by a 115­member panel. There are 28 national members of the panel and three media mem­bers from each of the league's 29 cities. 
Bookstore Sweet Sixteen 
Stepan 7: 8 p.m. Hollywood Schmegma vs. BW3's Bolivian Yaks 
8:45 Corby's vs. Show Me the Money 
9:30 SFR2: We Still Can't Score vs. Hoopaholics 
10:15 Swoosh Ill vs. And 1 
I 
Stepan 2: 8 p.m. Dos Geses vs. 
Bring Out the Gimp Ill  
8:45  Muddy Waters vs. Yin and Yang  
9:30  Malicious Prosecution vs.  
Vanilla Kernals  

10:15 Vanilla Thunder vs. Primetime 


Other players votes were Te. Detroit, 5; D Charlotte, and Seattle, 4; and .. Miami; Mark Philadelphia; of Phoenix~' Bo Los Angeles · 
Domiiliqu~ Aritoni~. b,J:Ie 
Thf)6~foo lost ·:his ~·,r.·:t l'ttriO' 
Knicks signe Allan· Houston averaged 13.8 points assists while coming. bench in 7 6 of the 77 
he played this season. . 
Starks, New York's all-time· leader in 3-point field goals with 852, was 20th in the NBA this season with 150. 
He is the second Knick to win the sixth-man award. Two years ago, it went to Anthony Mason, now with the Charlotte Hornets. 

The Observer • SPORTS page 19 
•MlB 
Martinez leads Yankee win 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK 

Tino Martinez drove in five runs as the New York Yankees stretched a winning streak to three for the first time this sea­son, beating the Milwaukee Brewers 10-5 Wednesday. 
Martinez hit a three-run dou­ble in the sixth for New York, which began the day tied for last in the AL East. 
Kenny Rogers won despite al­lowing five runs and six hits in six innings with four strikeouts and six walks. Graeme Lloyd pitched 1 2-3 innings for his first save since 1995. 
Milwaukee, which lost its fourth straight, rallied from a 5-0 deficit to tie the score before the Yankees knocked out starter Ben McDonald (2-2) during a four-run sixth. 
Derek Jeter put the Yankees ahead with an RBI single off Bryce Florie, Angel Miranda's intentional walk to Bernie Wilson loaded the bases and Martinez doubled off the wall in right-center. Martinez added an sacrifice fly in the eight. 
McDonald allowed seven runs and nine hits in 5 1-3 innings. walked four, struck out two and hit two batters. 
New York took a 3-0 lead in the first on Paul O'Neill's two­run single and Mariano Duncan's RBI single, and Williams and Martinez added run-scoring singles in the sec­ond. 
Milwaukee pulled to 5-3 in the third on Jeff Cirillo's two­run single and John Jaha's RBI single, and tied the score in the sixth on a two-run triple by Eddy Diaz. 
Indians 11, Red Sox 7 

CLEVELAND Jack McDowell got a win in the first regular-season relief 
appearance of his career, and the Cleveland Indians rallied from a five-run deficit to beat the Boston Red Sox 11-7 Wednesday. 
McDowell (1-2), banished to the bullpen because of 12.51 ERA in three starts, was bril­liant in four scoreless innings, allowing two hits, striking out four and walking two. The 1993 AL Cy Young Award winner got out of a second-and-third, no­outs jam in the fourth, walking off the field to a standing ova­tion. 
Seemingly sparked by McDowell's performance, Cleveland cut the lead to 5-2 in the fourth on a two-run homer by Jim Thome. The Indians closed within a run in the sixth Manny Ramirez' run-scoring groundout and Brian Giles' RBI double. 
Boston starter John Wasdin allowed four runs and five hits in 5 1-3 innings. 
ru;;;;;n;;;;;ir;Ai;ii;;; Runa 

The strong play of Hollywood Schmegma (above) carried them to victory over Consuming Fire last night. 
ATTENTION SOPHOMORES! 
ORDERS MAY NOW BE PLACED FOR YOUR CLASS RINGS 
Official Class Ring 
Orders may be placed in the bookste;,re beginning Wednesday, Apri/23rd 

THE HAMMES NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE 
"On the Campus" Phone: 631-6316 
Open: Monday thru Friday: 9:00am-7:00pm, Saturday: 9:00am-5:00pm, Sunday: 11:OOam-5:00pm 

-
-
-
..... 
..... 

-
-~-----~-­

The Observer/Brandon Candura 

The Northwestern Wildcats slid past the Fighting Irish handing them their second consecutive loss. 
Chris Pederson singled off second baseman Brant Ust, scoring llan and allowing Dainton to move to third. Northwestern then pulled off a double steal. Pederson left from first, and when Irish catcher Mike Amhrein threw to second,
-Dainton scored. Ust's throw to the plate sailed to the backstop and Pederson moved to third. After a walk to J.P. The Observer/Brandon Candura Williamson, Ollie Dunn Notre Dame alumnus Tony Rice threw out the ceremonial first pitch. attempted another squeeze bunt but Irish third baseman eye. The ball ricocheted to Jeff J.J. Brock threw to Amhrein, Felker, who made the putout at who tagged Pederson at theBaseball first base. plate. 
Schmalz walked off the field After two rough losses to continued from page 24 holding a towel to his head, and Michigan and Northwestern, single. was transported to the hospital Notre Dame plays at home 
After that, the Irish bats -for stitches. He's the sixth Irish again today against Toledo. and their .334 team batting pitcher currently injured. This weekend, the Irish have average -stopped. Through Despite all the injuries, the doubleheaders at West Virginia the last eight innings of the pitching staff has managed a and Pittsburgh. But, in game, only three Irish runners 2.44 ERA over the last eight Mainieri's mind, the depleted reached second base, and none games -but 19 Irish errors pitching staff-and Schmalz's made it any further. have lead to 16 unearned runs. injury in particular -will not 
"We've been hitting too many "[Schmalz's injury] had a hinder Notre Dame in the live balls in the air the last two huge effect on us," Mainieri upcoming game-s during the days," Mainieri said. "We're not said. "Our pitching is so thin next four days. forcing the other team to make now, we felt we needed a good "It will have no effect," 
plays. We haven't been able to five or six innings from our Mainieri said. "We just need to 
The Observer/Brandon Candura 

force them to make any er­starter." regroup. We can only take one The Irish offense couldn't produce much needed runs yesterday.
rors." Senior Mike Balicki replaced game at a time." 
While the Notre Dame offense Schmalz and kept shut down, it appeared that Northwestern scoreless starting pitcher Darin Schmalz through the fourth inning. But 
NOTRE DAME BASEBALL STATS 
would not need much more in the fifth, Alex Shilliday came 
support. After the two runs in to gave up four runs, taking 
THE BREAKDOWN ON YESTERDAY'S GAME AGAINST NORTWESTERN 
scored in the first inning, the the loss for Notre Dame. 

senior right-hander retired five With runners on first and 
Name Pos AB R H RBI BB so PO A 
'i>)}))))))'fl)\tft">

of the next seven batters he third, Bob Dainton laid a 
faced. squeeze bunt down the third 
Justin Scholl rf 4 0 0 0 0 1 2 0 
But in the third inning, base line. Patrick Thompson 
Randall Brooks cf 4 0 0 0 0 1 2 0 
Wildcat first baseman Keith scored from third, Haan moved 
....,«'(((«(~({....

Dan Leatherman cf/1 b 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
Haan hit a one-hop line drive to second and Dainton was safe 
Mike Amrhein c 4 1 1 0 0 0 6 1
that hit Schmalz above the left at first. 


Mike Knecht c 0 0 0 0 0 0 1 0 Jeff Wagner dh 4 1 2 1 0 0 0 0 Brant Ust 2b 3 1 3 1 0 0 0 3 Jeff Perconte ph/2b 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Allen Greene If 3 0 1 1 0 1 2 0 Larry Zimont ph/If 1 0 0 0 0 1 0 0 Jeff Felker 1b 2 0 0 0 0 1 7 1 John Corbin ph 1 0 0 0 1 0 0 0 Pat O'Keefe cf 0 0 0 0 0 0 1 0 Paul Turco ss 2 0 0 0 0 0 3 1 Pat Gorman cf 1 G 0 0 1 1 0 0 J.J. Brock ph 0 0 0 0 0 0 2 4 Jaime Hay 3b 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Darin Schmalz p 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 1 Mike Balicki p 0 0 0 0 0 0 1 0 Alex Schilliday p 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Pat Davis p 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Mark Lapinskas p 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Dan Stavisky p 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Larry Mohs p 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Matt Nussbaum p 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 
Totals 33 3 7 3 2 6 27 11 
Name IP H R ER BB so AB BF 
Darin Schmalz 

2.2 6 2 2 0 1 14 14 
Mike Balicki 

1.1 1 0 0 1 0 5 6 
Alex Schilliday 

2.0 4 4 4 2 3 10 12 
Pat Davis 

0.1 0 3 3 2 0 0 4 
Mark Lapinskas 

0.2 1 1 1 1 0 2 4 
Dan Stavisky 

0.1 1 1 1 1 1 2 3 Larry Mohs 
0.2 0 0 0 0 0 2 3 
Matt Nussbaum 

1.0 3 1 1 1 0 6 7 
The Observer/Brandon Candura 
Pitcher Darin Schmalz lett the game after suffering a blow to the head. 
The Observer I Brian Blank 





Bookstore 
continued from page 24 
"It was a real physical game," Brett Hartmann of the Bolivian Yaks said. "They were proba­bly the first team to give us trouble inside." 
Hartmann's teammate Peter Gansler commented on the solid fundamental philosophy of his team. 
"We just wanted to focus on good defense and rebounding," Gansler added. "We think if we 
,_...,~--~-----~· 
can continue to do that, we have a shot at the final four." 
In top five action, third seed­ed Malicious Prosecution continued to dominate with a 21-10 victory over No. 30 Burn 'n· Shoot. Malicious is one of the teams most highly touted as being capable of dethroning the top-seeded Corby's and with the fast-pace offense it has dis­played thus far, has the poten­tial to do so. 
"We might try to move around a little," Neil Jakobe said of his team's strategy going into the Sweet Sixteen. 

1he University of Notre Dame Department of Music presents 
The Notre Dame Symphony Orchestra 
An American in Paris 
George Gershwin 
Fanfare for the Common Man & El salon Mexico 
Aaron Copland 
Le tombeau de Couperin 
Maurice Ravel 

Friday, April 25 8 pm Washington Hall 
The concert is free and open to the public. 
-
page 21 

----------------------------~~--------------~~--­

"We definitely need to work on our shooting and step it up on defense a little bit." 
The fifth seed, SFR2: We Still Can't Score, also walked away victorious, with a 21-16 defeat of Sweeter than Candy. Although SFR2 only led by one at the half. they were able to break the game open in the second half, led by solid shoot­ing at the line by Keith Kurowski, who went two-for­two. and Steve Starck, who made a clutch free throw late in the game. 
"We're playing good basket­ball right now," Chris Dotson of SFR2 commented. "We were able to mix up our defense tonight -both zone and man­to-man -and we found some success there, so we'll probably continue to do that and keep playing the way we have been. 
The Observer/Mike Runa 

No.4 Swoosh walked away victorious last night after a 21-12 victory over We Can Drink More than Bailey. 
History 
continued from page 24 sions when commissioners had to intervene to prevent fights from from breaking out. The frequency of the out­bursts eventually subsided and the quality of basketball im­proved from that point on. For the Assassins, guard Raki Nelson and center Eric Chappell proved that football is certainly not the only sport at which they excel. Nelson daz­zled the crowd with impressive ball-handling skills. outside shooting range, and acrobatic dunking ability. Chappell was solid in the paint from begin­ning to end. When all was said and done, however, Tejada was clearly the game's nTost valuable play­er. He may have also been the most talkative player on the blacktop, but he made the plays to back up his words. His control of the game's tempo and ability to knock down the clutch jumper were the decisive factors in the con­test. "John Tejada played the most incredible game I have ever seen," praised Brennan. "We won solely because of him." The most outstanding feat by far. however. was the play of the Gimp team down the stretch in regulation. Down 20-16, Gimp averted elimina­tion time and time again. They eventually clawed their way back to tie the score at 20, and it was then that the fun truly 
McKinley-Penn Self-Lock Storage· 
10386 MciGnley-Osceola 
Summer Storage 
lOxlO lOxlS l0x20 Fenced I Lighted I Security 
Call 679-4744 
began. 
Gimp and the Assassins took 

-
turns holding one-point leads 
for the next hour. It seemed 
that whenever one of the 
teams missed a chance to end 
the game, their opponents 
buried a shot on the following 
trip to even the score. 
The most entertaining se­quence of the game began with the squads knotted at 30. Nelson beat Tejada off the dribble and drained a leaning jumper to give the Assassins the 31-30. Tejada responded in kind, burying a bomb from beyond the arc, right in Nelson's face. 
At this, the hardy crowd was ready to concede the battle of egos to Tejada. But Nelson gave the fans reason to expect anything from that point out, as he responded to Tejada's challenge by drilling another long-range jump shot of his own. 
"Raki Nelson is one of the best basketball players I have ever guarded," said Tejada. Following Nelson's second con­secutive bucket, with the score 32-31, all eyes were on Tejada to see if yet another response was in the works. However, as Tejada penetrated to Nelson's right on the next trip up the court, the MVP coolly dished the ball to an open Brennan. who proceeded to submit his own response, by canning a shot from outside the NBA three-point range. 

Despite the heroics from both sides. Tejada, Brennan, and company simply outlasted the Assassins and earned the No. 11 seed for the round of 16. 
"We as a team," explained Tejada, "were able to stay to­gether. It was all heart. Our fans were behind us, and we couldn't let them down." 
If Tejada thought they had fans last night, he needs only to wait until this evening, when all of the underdog supporters are sure to be out in force as Bring Out the Gimp III takes on No. 3 Muddy Waters. 

-



---------~~~------------­
. ' 

I. hursday, April 24, 1997 The Observer • TODAY page 23 
MEN ABOUT CAMPUS 
MOTHER GOOSE & GRIMM DAN SULLIVAN 
J)O!I'"T 1.1~1? F\Y. "'T'H£ At>~!NISr~ATION' f>O£S/'/'r R£CM1#tZ.c 1'1£ 
EITHER. 

MIKE PETERS 
SCOTT ADAMS 

DILBERT 
'YOU WA.NT r-\E TO g SIGN AN AGREEMENT ~ THAT I WON'T WORK i FOR A COMPETiTOR j FOR HVE '<EAR5 IF -~ 
I LEAVE HERE? 
i 
47 Mary's "Ink" 
co-star 48 Brave 49 Funnyman 
David 51 Stock market 
activity 56 "Chill" 58 Not very bright 59 ~:irt hit 60 Sultan Qabus 
bin Said, e.g. 61 The--­
Neisse Line 62 Holly genus 63 Vegas casino, 
with "The" 64 June honorees 65 Kudzu, for one 
DOWN 
1 Let it stand 2 Title for Mozart 3 Home solo 4 Caste member 5 Graceful 


descent 

21 Detain during 6 Chess and Risk wartime 7 Electrical 22 Clio winners 45 Disney collaborator device 
25 Sports acouisition of 54 Neck and neck 8 Manhattan commentator 1995 
55 Old German Project 
Dick 46 This will help you duchy name physicist 
26 Like old nylons shoot straight 56 Bacillus shape 9 "Beowulf," for 
27 Cut the 50 Indira's son 57 Big bird 
mustard? one
10 Oldest republic 28 Loser of 1 588 in Africa 29 Overall guide Answers to any three clues in this puzzle 11 Big Mama are available by touch-tone phone: 34 What a bore!

12 Bruckner's 1-900-420-5656 (75¢ per minute). Symphony 
37 Had a dispute Annual subscriptions are available for the No.7--38 Expert advice 

best of Sunday crosswords from the last 41 Kind of road 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
YOUR HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Shirley Maclaine, Barbra Strei­sand, Eric Bogosian, Leslie Howard 
DEAR EUGENIA: I have been through a disastrous divorce and got the house, but needed to take in a roommate. I lost my job and went back to retraining in video produc­tion. One of my children has already gone to live with her father and I am worried that the other one will as welL My ex makes tons of money. Should I take him back to court' Will I ever have another partner in my life? I was born on july 14, 1943, at 6:05p.m. 
S.F 
DEAR S.F.: You've made a lot of wrong choices over the past several years. However, your chart shows that you can do well as a documen­tary filmmaker. I believe that your second daughter will also go to live with your ex but, without your ex­husband's, roommate's or children's birth data, it is difficult for me to get the whole picture. The house is drain­ing you, and if you can sell it, do so. As a matter of fact, you should have gone for the money and let your ex have the house. Don't live in the past or question what's happened. There is no time to waste if you want to get your life sorted out. You are in a high cycle where work and money are concerned. The film in­dustry, along with other cmnmunica­tion fields, does look promising for you. I suggest that you make this whole predicament count for some­thing. As for a partner, you are likely to have better luck in 1998. 
ARIES (March 21-April 20): This could be an upsetting day. Your posi­tion may be threatened by someone who may not have been completely honest with you. 
TAURUS (April 21-May 21): Prob­lems with otbcrs may be distressing. Try to stay calm and don't do things just to be revengefuL 
GEMINI (May 22-June 21): Some­one you have befriended is interested in more than just a friendship. You may find that your emotional partner is somewhat perturbed. 
CANCER (June 22-July 22): You should be busy working in order to take your mind off unpleasant experi­ences. You have to let go of the past. 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 23): You'll be in the mood to do things with friends. Organize an indoor sports event that will be competitive and challenging. 
VIRGO (Aug. 24-Sept 22): You may find it difficult to feel sympathet­ic towar(ls those who really haven't pulled their weight. 
LIBRA (Sept 23-0ct. 23): Travel or getting out with friends will be most enjoyable. You may want to pick up some new outfits. 
SCORPIO (Oct 24-Nov. 22): You can make quantum leaps in your pro­fessional direction today. Don't hesi­tate to go for interviews. 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 23-Dec. 21): You will be in 'eventh heaven wherl' you receive recognition for your ac­complishments. 
CAPRICOR:-.1 (Dec. 22-Jan. 20): If you get involved in behind-the-scenes activities, you will discover that there is more to learn than you first thought. 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 21-Feb. 18): Try to be patient with children or those younger and less experienced than you. You should organize fund-rais­ing events. 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Get caught up on your letter-writing and reading. You need to obtain a vast amount of knowledge in order to ad­dress groups. 

Born Today: You aren't one to forget, and you do hold grudges. This is not the year to miss out on opportunities. Put your differences aside so that you can accomplish something worthwhile. 

-
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 1 1979 exile 5 Double or triple, possibly 9 "Cantarde Rodrigo" hero 14 Actress Hatcher 15 Plod (through) 16 Nero's instrument 17 Neighbor of Albion 18 Kazakh-Uzbek sea 19 "Ghosts" writer 20 1983 Eddie Murphy movie 23 Like some letters 24 Opposite of idles 27 Run into 30 Kitchen needs 
\__ 
31 "Would--?" (sleazeball's question) 
32 Procter & Gamble brand 33 Penultimate fairy-tale word 
34Where 61-Across was "drawn" 
35 Clock settings 
36 Thing, in law 
37 F.D.R. program 39 "How dry--" 40 "Ah, But Your Landis Beautiful" novelist 42Wax 43 Flamenco cheer 44 Foreign Secretary under Churchill 45 Transport to Sugar Hill 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

II!------~~~~~~~~ ~=:-+.::+.::-! 
t-:=-+-::-~_,.. -=-+-=-+=-f...~""" .,..,+::-+-"-+:::-~ 
-

-
SPORTS 
page 24 Thursday, April 24, 1997 
• BOOKSTORE BASKETBAll 

Assassins shot down in historical 41-39 game 




-
By DAN CICHALSKI Assodate News Editor 
At Turn Back the Clock Night last night . at Eck Stadium; the Fighting Irish baseball team could not even turn back the 'Cats. let alone the elock.The Northwestern Wildcats brought a 13-26 recQrd into the game and scored wilt'lnglyJast night, pounding the I~ ish 12-3. Following Tuesday's 5-3 loss to Michigan, Notre Dame has suffered consecutive losses for the first iime since March 22­23 when they dropped three games at Seton Hall. 
The loss was only the second at home for the Irish this sea­son. 
"We've had a few games like that [recently}. where we couldn't make the plays," Irish coach Paul Mainieri said":" "We've struggled defensively and no one steps up.~ 
Wearing replica uniforms from the 1950s. Notre Dame 

committed only two ~rrors; but man~ oth~r hits ~p~nce9 off play~rs or slipped p~st O\t~;n stretched gloves~ All nine Northwestern starters. reachf!d base ~Ueast ol:!ce. 'iii: The Wildcats scored first; 
putting together three straight 
hits -two doubles and a Sin" 
gle -in the opening inning 
for a 2-0 lead. · 

In the bottom of tl}e first, Justin Scholl led Off after missing 24 games with rib and shoulder, injuries, and was hit on the shoulder by Chris Hargan. But Scholl was thrown out trying to steal sec­ond hase by Wildcafcatchet Nick Franzese, and Randall Brooks grounded out. 
With two outs, Mike Amrhein singled and scored from first on Jeff Wagner's base hit to center field~ The,n 
.Brant Ost doubled to left field, 
scoring Wagner, and Allen 
Greene knocked in JJst with a 
see BASEBALL /page 20 
By BRIAN REINTHALER 
Assistant Sports Editor 

In what may have been the game of the Bookstore tourna­ment, let alone the game of the decade, No. 22 Bring Out the Gimp III upset No. 11 Downtown Assassins in front of 300-plus die hard fans. 
When the game began around 
10:30 p.m., quite a few other contests were still not even un­der way, but by the time Gimp point guard Pat Brennan lay in the final basket nearly two hours later, every other game was long since over. The fast break bucket gave Gimp a 41­39 victory and advanced the squad to the Sweet 16 of Bookstore Basketball XXVI. 
"I can't even describe it," gasped Gimp shooting guard John Tejada immediately fol­lowing Brennan's clincher. "It was really one heck of a game." 
And that it was. 

The final contest in the round of 32 featured all of the ele­ments one would expect in a typical Bookstore class, and more. There were scraps, hard fouls, disputed calls, dunks, threats of technical fouls for fan interference, travelling calls which nullified game-clinching layups, and game-saving jump shots from well beyond the three-point arc. 
Early on. there appeared to be more talk than game on Stepan Court No. 6. The two squads got right at one another from the opening play, and there were a number of occa­
see HISTORY I page 21 

Primetime ready for the big show 
By BETSY BAKER 
Associate Sports Editor 

Up until the historical 41-39 
. No. 22 Bring Out the Gimp III upset of No. 11 Downtown Assassins that tied the Bookstore Basketball record for highest score in history, No. 27. Primetime had been the talk of the tournament. 
And the team of three sopho­mores and two freshmen still might be as the Sweet Sixteen head to the courts tomorrow. 
After their 21-15 upset of sixth-ranked Sexual Chocolate, what had previously been whis­pers about the team's ability turned into full fledged spec­ulation about the team's poten­tial to be a giant killer. From the mouths of fans to top­ranked veterans, Primetime is cited as the team to watch of the twenty-sixth Bookstore tournament. 
Many compare the team to 
• fOOTBAll 

last year's runner-up Showtime, and the comparison is uncanny -Five guys from Stanford Hall who don't boast a lot of size but overflow with team unity and heart. The one major difference that sets Primetime apart from last year's Cinderella story is its youth. While Showtime was a group of seniors with their last shot at the title, this year's group of green is composed of up-and-coming players with no pressure facing them as far as a last chance. 
Still, the team does not shy away from being compared to Showtime. 
"We narned ourselves after them," Mike Empy of Primetime said of his predecessors. "Tliey lived right upstairs from us, and we used to practice with them and help them train." 
When asked if Primetime planned on having the same kind of success that Showtime found last year, Empy an­swered, "Boy, do I hope so." 
In other fifth-round action, the games were not decisive victories by any means. With the exception of top-seeded Corby's who rolled to a 21-7 victory over 4 Inmates and a Loose End, no surviving team won easily. 
In other upset action. No. 13 The Sixth Man lost in a 21-19 to No. 9 Vanilla Thunder II. Hoss Hansen, of Vanilla Thunder. attributed his team's victory to good defense inside the paint. 
"Our game plan was to zone 'em up and make them shoot outside," Hansen commented. "That's what we did and fortu­nately they didn't shoot real well." 
In another close game, BW3's Bolivian Yaks defeated I Love It When They Call Me Poppa 21­17 in a hardfought physical match. 
see BOOKSTORE I page 21 

Sir Lance alot of potential 
By MIKE DAY 
Sports Editor 

When it comes to Notre Dame football, there are very few se­crets. 
Every tackle, touchdown, and fumble is susceptible to the spotlight of the nation's most storied football program. Simply put, the Blue & Gold is like no other football team in the country. 
Indeed, the microscope at Notre Dame picks up even the slightest detail. An Irish player can't sneeze without someone being there to offer him a tis­sue. There are few secrets and rarely any surprises. 
Except one. lie is that rare breed who has managed to slip through the cracks, stay within the darkness of the shadows, and avoid the glare or the spot­light. 
Lance Legree is that one. 
In just three weeks, Lance Legree has become the best kept secret on the Notre Dame football team. Yet to play a down at the collegiate level, the 
see LEGREE I page 18 


Men's Lacrosse 
• Softball sweeps doubleheader 
Baseball vs. Toledo, 
Today, 6 p.m. 


at Michigan State, see page 16Saturday, 2 p.m.
-
Softball, • NBA playoff action at Kalamazoo College, 
see page15 

Today4 p.m. 







