
Thursday, March 6, 1997 • Vol. XXX No. 105 THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
• STUDENT SENATE 
Despite arguments, senate accepts new constitution 
CONSTITUTION CALENDAR 
Feb. 14 Amendments from 
subcommittee chairs due.  
Feb. 16  Writing committee completes revisions.  
Mid Feb.  CCC!Student Activities/SUB informally agree  

Feb. 18 HPC proposal. Feb. 19 Reform finalizes new constitution. Feb. 25 HPC vote. 
Feb. 26 Proposal to senate of reform package. 
Mar. 5 Senate vote. Mar.­lmplementatiol) .Qf Sept. reforms. · 
-The Observer 
By DEREK BETCHER 
Assistant News Editor 
A new era in Notre Dame stu­dent government began yester­day when the Student Senate approved a revamped student government constitution. 
With a 14-2 vote, the senate cleared the way for implement­ing the new Student Union. 
The senate vote was the final step in a reform process that began last November when Brendan Kelly created the reform committee. 
The reform process has sought to address four basic problems with the current sys­tem: inaccessibility to students, inability to sustain action on key issues, lack of organizational unity, and lack of continuity. 
''I'm proud that the student body has finally decided to get together and change the system for the better," Kelly said fol­lowing the meeting. "This is just step one, though. Now people have to use [the new system.]" 
Student Senator Mark Leen and senior class president Bill Hammonds cast the only dis­senting votes. 
Both senators had specific concerns which they claimed 
the new constitution would not address. 
"I felt that class government is being phased out by the new constitution. Senior leadership and class government need to stay an active part of student government," Hammonds ex­plained. 
Leen's concerns centered around the streamlined rela­tionship between the new sen­ate and the Office of Student Affairs. 
"I felt, in essence, that the senate was limiting itself," Leen said. "When I ran last year, my slogan was 'The administration may not always act, but it's stu­dent government's job to make them listen.' I feel very vehe­mently about this issue." 
The majority of yesterday's senate meeting was dominated by scrutinization of Hammonds' and Leen's concerns. Directly after calling the meeting to order, Leen opened the lengthy debate by introducing three friendly amendments to the pro­posed constitution. 
All discussion centered around Clause 2 and Clause 4 of Article II, Section II. The most disputed passage reads, 
see SENATE I page 4 


The Observer/Adam Andres Student Senator Mark Leen expressed concern about facets of the new constitution, saying he "felt, in essence, that the senate was limit­ing itself~' 
Poorman: Modern sex ideas not ethical 
By HEATHER MACKENZIE "healthy orgasm." Basically, News Writer this is the idea defines sex as a purely selfish act, a biological 
Sex should not be practiced need that absolutely must be outside of marriage: This basic met. The physical and emotion­rule of Christianity was the the-al need for sexual release is sis of a lecture on sexual ethics encompassed in this view, by !'ather Mark Poorman last Poorman stressed, but there is night. Among topics addressed so much emphasis on the indi­were modern American views vidual that the rights of the on sex and the position of the other person are lost. Church on sexual relations. "Modern insights and Freud 
"There's a bit of a competi-argue that sex has everything to tion in contemporary society in do with life," Poorman empha­the way people think about sized. "The question within this sex." Poorman said. "The view is this: what's wrong with Christian way is recreational ddinitely not a sex if no one is univnrsal or getting hurt? even popular The trouble way of thinking. here is that There are hun-f ·· there is no 
dreds of uture... thought of the sources out of intim"'"''"'"'~'""' other person." there telling es sexual irifirntiP't1 p 0 0 r man you how to then moved to improve your the practice of sex life or how Father Mark Poorman sex if there is to please your mutual con-partner... I ------------sent. This is a always like to listen to how peo-move from the healthy orgasm pie actually think about sex." category, he clarified, because 
Poorman based his discussion the rights of all to a free deci­on the delineation of the four sion about sexual acts are con­major ethical categories for sidered and human dignity thinking about sex. In this enters as a consideration. broad outline Poorman con-However, Poorman ques­trasted the Christian view of tioned whether this type of sex­sexuality with societal defini-ual practice was really ethical: tions of love and commitment. "Is sexual activity really cap­
"We draw verbal blanks in tured by a kind of contracted describing relationships... mutual consent?" when you press for a verb, Poorman went on to stress especially at a place like Notre that the mutual consent defini­Dame, the most you will get is tion of sexual ethics is the one 'seeing.' The words 'dating' most cited in modern American and 'boyfriend' or 'girlfriend' culture. are almost never heard." "A personal choice for sex or 
The first category of sexuality Poorman discussed was the see SEX I page 4 
The Observer Photos/Adam Andres 
A piece of artwork by Bruce Nauman resembling a tunnel was installed yesterday between the Snite Museum of Art and the stadium. 


Tunnel stands above ground 
By MICHELLE KRUPA 
Students walking between the Suite Museum of Art and the stadium will have "the imaginary experience of being placed within ... subterranean pathways and tunnels," according to ariist Bruce Nauman, as they pass his nine-foot sculpture which will be on loan to the University for the next six months. 
The piece, a 1/60th scale model of a hypothetical underground tunnel is the third in an edition of three and is composed of two nine-foot circles con­nected to a seemingly suspended central pyramid by diagonally attached shafts. Made of Cor-ten, the steel used for its fabrication does not require 
see SCULPTURE I page 4 

~------------------------------------------~ 
The Observer • INSIDE Thursday, March 6, 1997 
• WORLD AT AGlANCE 
No damage, exploding device baffles police 
page 2 
• INSIDE COLUMN 





The Food Gestapo 
So I went to South Laura Petelle 
Dining Hall with my News Copy Editor 
friend Kate. 
Kate prefers her 
apples cut in half. I don't know why-maybe 
she feeds half to the mutant squirrels on the 
quad or something-but she does. So, not 
owning a stolen SDH paring knife of her own, 
she cut the apple in half before we left the 
dining hall. 
Follow my logic here: two halves equal one 
whole. One whole apple. 
As we walked out of the dining hall, we 
were accosted and stopped by the Food 
Gestapo. 
"You can only take one piece of fruit out," 
they said. 
"Oh, I just cut it in half," Kate replied, 
putting the two halves seamlessly together. 
"You'll have to leave one of those pieces 
here." 
"It's just one apple." 
"You'll have to leave one here," the Food 
Gestapo maintained. 
Stumped and befuddled, we considered our 
options. Now even I, who barely survived 
Calculus for Weenies, know that 1/2 plus 1/2 
equals 1, but the laws of mathematics were 
obviously suspended in the dining hall. 
What about philosophy? I considered 
putting half the apple in my backpack and 
claiming that since they couldn't see it, they 
couldn't prove it existed. But, going to the 
one college in the United States with no bill of 
rights, I figured I would be subjected to a 
search and seizure, and no matter what your 
philo TA tells you, you can not think an apple 
out of existence. 
I considered theology. We are at a Catholic 
university, after all, and Catholics believe in 
one God as three parts. So where's the prob­
lem with two halves as one apple? I mean, e 
pluribus unum and all that stuff on the quar­
ter: from many, one. The Trinity is way more 
abstract than the Apple Duality, but some­
how I didn't think All God's Children in SDH 
would buy it. 
Kate, meanwhile, was attempting seman­
tics. 
"If we called a unit of fruit a groobi instead 
of a piece, there would be no problem here," 
she argued. "It's just because we say a 
'piece' of fruit. When I have two halves of a 
groobi, I still have one groobi, not two." 
They did not look convinced. 
I considered explaining that since the apple 
now had more exposed surfaces, it was expe­
riencing molecular decay at a rate greater 
than that of an intact apple, and so was real­
ly not even one whole apple anymore, but 
somehow I felt that entropy was not the 
answer to this already out-of-control situa­
tion. 
"One of the pieces is mine," I said. "She 
was just holding it for me while I put on my 
coat." 
Apparently, though Notre Dame is a totali­
tarian state with no student representation in 
the ruling body, the communist notion of 
communal property does not apply. 
"You'll have to put one back," the Food 
Gestapo said, shaking their heads in unison. 
"Put it back where?" Kate snapped. "On 
the half-apple tree?" 
The Food Gestapo pointed grimly at the 
conveyer belt. 
Ah! Taking half of what we own and 
throwing it away! That's the University poli­
cy! 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
• TOOAY's STAFf  
News  Accent  
Michelle Krupa  Joey Crawford  
Dave F reddoso  Brent DiCresenzo  
Sports  Graphics  
Allison Krilla  Brian Blank  
Lab Tech  Production  
Brandon Candura  Michelle Krupa  
Viewpoint  Mark DeBoy  
Dan Cichalski  

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction righcs are reserved. 
MERCER ISLAND, Wash. 
A device equipped with a timer explod­ed outside the Jewish Community Center, rattling occupants and police but causing no damage or injuries. 
No threats were received before the blast in a parking lot Monday evening, nor did anyone claim responsibility afterward, police officer Jennifer Franklin said today. 
She described the force as "probably a little stronger than an M-80," an illegal~.__________c________,__ 
___J 
firecracker packing the punch of about one-eighth of a stick of dynamite. 
Bits of plastic, a mechanical timer and plywood were blown 150 feet from where the explosive device was left. But two cars 20 feet away were untouched and no 
Healthy Yeltsin returns with speech 
MOSCOW 
Boris Yeltsin is looking to reinvigo­rate his presidency with a shakeup and a major speech Thursday, itching to drop a political bombshell or two after months on the sidelines. After recov­ering from heart surgery and dishing out a series of tongue-lashings. the healthy "new" Yeltsin again resembles the battling Boris of old rather than a 

shuffling, absent leader in decline. Thursday's new beginning -a state-of-the-nation address and govern­ment reshuffling -may or may not make a dent in the country's intractable problems. But barring a last­minute relapse, there will be no doubt who's running Russia when Yeltsin towers, stern-faced, over the podi­um in parliament to deliver an expected 30-minute speech. That in itself is a step toward easing the politi­cal uncertainty that gripped Russia just weeks ago. Cynical Russians, many of them unpaid by the govern­ment for months, won't be impressed by a flash of Yeltsin's famous temper and a slew of new promises or new faces. But many are willing to give him another chance, after months of deep public gloom over his shaky condition and the resulting drift in the country's leadership. 
Instant noodle makers unite 
TOKYO 
There was no mighty clash of ideologies. Their com­munique didn't roil currency markets. But the delegates emerging from the World Ramen Summit on Wednesday said they're confident they can meet their objective: to sell the world more instant noodles. As part of their mission to get consumers to use their noodles, the ramen producers from around the world also created IRMA: the Instant Ramen Manufacturers' Association. Pretty heady stuff for the humble package of instant noodles -the just-add-hot-water, way-under-a-dollar snack that now commands a colossal world market. Noodle-slurpers around the world take in 40 billion packs of instant ramen every year -about seven for every man, woman and child on the face of the planet, IRMA says. One of the chests swelling with pride at the global success of this Japanese artifact belonged to Momofuku Ando, the man credited with bringing instant ramen to the world in 1958. Ando, who was anointed IRMA's first chair­man, said he never imagined that the convenient snack product he created would be such a success. "When the market was young, there were many who didn't accept the idea of instant ramen noodles. 
AP/Carl Fox 
block in one direction and Herzl Ner Tamid Conservative Congregation in the other. Activity at the center was uninterrupted, director Gary Pollack said. 
Republicans renew abortion fight 
WASHINGTON 
Emboldened by the admitted lie of a key abortion rights supporter, congressional Republicans renewed the push Wednesday for legislation banning a certain late­term abortion procedure. A principal GOP leader in the anti-abortion movement said President Clinton, who vetoed the bill last year, should "have a chance to get it right" now that activist Ron Fitzsimmons says that he lied. Abortion rights supporters pledged to keep fighting the bill. "The facts have not changed; they've just been discovered by the media and now the general public," said Rep. Charles Canady, R-Fla.. the prime House spon­sor. "And the outrage about partial-birth abortion which began as a strong current is now at flood stage." Fitzsimmons, executive director of the National Coalition of Abortion Providers in Alexandria, Va., said last week he lied in 1995 when he said just a few hundred of the abortions were performed annually -and then only to save the mother's life or abort deformed fetuses. He now says several thousand are performed yearly, and not only in the third trimester, but on some healthy women in the middle of pregnancy. Now, congressional Republicans are calling on Clinton, who supports a woman's right to an abortion, to reverse course and agree to the ban. "I think we ought to give the president another chance to get it right," said Rep. Henry Hyde. 
Extremist groups up 6 percent in 1996 
MONTGOMERY, Ala. 
At least 858 extremist groups were active in the United States last year, a 6 percent increase over 1995, says a group that studies hate crime activity. Klanwatch, a branch of the Montgomery-based Southern Poverty Law Center, released a study this week titled "Two Years After: The Patriot Movement Since Oklahoma City." The study found that so-called Patriot Groups, including 380 armed militias, exist in all 50 states and have improved their intelligence-gathering networks and the ability to share information through a sophisticated communica­tion network. At least 101 openly espouse white supremacist or anti-Semitic messages, the report said. The report said more than one-third of the arrests made for extremist activity in 1996 were related to explosives, indicating indicated the pervasive effect the Oklahoma City bombing has had on extremist groups. Klanwatch Director Joe Roy said the Oklahoma City bombing also served to weed out less-enthusiastic members of extrem­ist groups, which in turn could have made them more volatile. "While casual adherents have abandoned the cause, new groups have been formed to take their place," he said. 
• SOUTH BEND WEATHER • NATIONAl WEATHER 

The AccuWeather®forecast for noon, Thursday, March 6. 
Lines separate high temperature zones for the day. 
COLD WARM STATIONARY 
C 1997 AccuWealher, Inc. 
Pressure 
H L B ~ [D) 0 . ~ 8 (:} !:J. u 
HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY Pf CLOUDY CLOUDY Vl.tAssoclatftdPrruJs 
Atlanta 58 47 Chicago 37 22 Los Angeles 75 54 Baltimore 50 38 Columbus 39 30 Miami 85 73 Bellingham 50 40 Dallas 67 34 Minneapolis 19 4 Boston 49 37 Denver 58 23 New Orleans 65 53 

Casselberry 82 65 Elyria 37 30 NewYorl< 47 38
Via Associated Press GraphicsNet 
windows were broken. 
Nonetheless, Sgt. Dennis Wheeler said, "Potentially, it could have been very damaging if people had been near­by." 
The explosion occurred in a parking lot some distance from the 90,000­square-foot building while parents were picking up pre-schoolers. older children were at a youth theater rehearsal and still others were working out in the gymnasium. 
The police station is just down the 
-~-------------·--~------------------. 
Thursday, March 6, 1997 
The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Weigert: Volunteer work can enhance life 
By SARAH CORKREAN Saint Mary's Assistant News Editor 
On campuses nationwide last fall, three-quarters of the class of 2000 rated its most essential goal in life to be financially well off. These results were followed by raising a family, being an authority figure in a profes­sional field and helping others in diffi­culty. 
While presenting these findings, Kathleen Maas Weigert, the featured speaker at Saint Mary's College Lenten Lecture Series, asked what evaluates and determines today's younger gen­eration's goals and values. 
Weigert, associate director for acad­emic affairs research at Notre Dame's Center for Social Concerns, presented a lecture on the dangers of service and the importance of including service in one's life. 
Noting that entering college stu­dents' goals are a sign of the times, Weigert said students also want to make individual contributions to soci­ety as a whole. 
Collectively, less than 20 percent of the students polled said they do some form of volunteer work. The majority of students time is spent working for pay, in athletic activities, and partying. 
Weigert continued by posing the question, "Who does the volunteer work if the young do not?" 
Pointing to the mission statement of the Sisters of the Holy Cross which focuses on a Catholic identity con­cerned with academics and social action, "We are called to participate through time and service to foster a community of service." 
Particularly within the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's community, Weigert said service is flourishing at local shel­ters and missions because of family, friends and school influence. 
"The volunteerism at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's is very impressive," said junior Katie Narbone, a volunteer at the Center for the Homeless. "We seem to live in an idealized world with so many volunteers concentrated here and not as many on other campuses. 
"If people were to just volunteer once, perhaps they would see for themselves the self-satisfaction one receives from helping others, not to mention the invaluable lessons one learns about the less fortunate," Narbone added. 
Yet Weigert noted that the danger many people find in volunteer service is the challenge in openly receiving the service of others. 
"We all need to learn how to balance the giving and receiving of service to be able to give service more freely than having to think about volunteer­ing for a period of time," Weigert said. 
She went on, saying that service must start with the Church encourag­ing service. 

the world is getting smaller smell better. 
The teaching of the Church in the Second Vatican Council acknowledges the idea that Catholics must pay atten­
tion to the common 
good of all. 
"Common good applies to people throughout the world. We cannot think only of our own individual community but the world and the vast problems that must be solved," Weigert said. 
Aside from the challenges of engag­ing in service, Weigert noted that responding to the call of service can sometimes be overwhelming. With so many problems to address, one may feel all alone or unable to help. 
"The challenge is not to do service alone, but to be a friend foremost. Many students in the college communi­ty who volunteer think they will change someone's life, but quite often the opposite happens, and the student is transformed by those to whom they offer service," Weigert said. 
Thursday: 
Bucket night and DJ Dance Party Free pool and dart lessons for ladies starting at 8 p.m. First game is free too! 
CHECK IT OUT! 
Great prices across the menu 
Always open 'til 3AM 
M·F open at 3pm, Sat open at noon 
For the location ofthe call the Q:LINE at 236-9661. Next support group -March 20 at 7:30 
page 4 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, March 6, 1997 
afraid this (clause] would pro­tor with the vice president of Student Senate/CLC relationship decided not to support vide her with an excuse not to Student Affairs," Kelly said. was still unresolved, and frus­Hammonds' amendment. 
Senate 
respond," Leen said. "[Talking with the senate] is not trated senate members called Following that action, the sen­
Kelly defended the clause, efficient, from that office's point the issue to question. ate cast its decisive vote to
continued from page 1 
explaining that it serves to of view. That's the political real­In a 10-5-1 vote, the senate accept the new constitution. "Resolutions passed in the streamline the CLC's relation­ity." agreed not to amend to debated In other news, the senate Senate addressing the Office of ship with the senate. From that point, debate devel­passages. unanimously approved the Student Affairs shall be submit­Joe Cassidy, student govern­oped into heated discussion of Next, Hammonds proposed an 1997-98 Student Union Board ted directly to the Campus Life ment's administrative advisor the subtle differences between amendment that would give the programmers. Accepted were Council." explained that the Office of responding to campus politics Senior class president a seat on Lisa Zimmer, Collegiate Jazz 
Leen interpreted this passage Student Affairs created the CLC and shaping campus politics. the new senate. Festival; Jocelyn Szczepaniak­as isolating vice president of for two purposes. The first, he "If she chooses not to respond The measure, he explained, Gillece, Sophomore Literary Student Affairs Patricia O'Hara told the senate, was to protect to a letter, that's just a matter was targeted to keep class rep­Festival; Christy Duval, from the Student Senate's direct the Office of Student Activities of being rude. It's not policy," resentation vital in the Student AnTostal; Adam Rieck, movies; input. The new constitution from a barrage of petty commu­offered Club Coordination Union. Ashleigh Thompson, Concerts; reflects the current political sit­nication. Secondly, the CLC was Council academic commissioner "It's totally inconsistent with Lizzie Brady, Cultural Arts; Tina uation by explaining that the to insulate the senate from not A.J. Boyd. "Why don't we let what they've set up. It should Potthoff, Campus Entertain­CLC is the senate's conduit to having its issues responded to. them have their quibblance have been brought up at an ear­ment; Nicole Peoples, Special the Office of Student Affairs. "The basic reasoning was· that over wording?" lier time in the reform proc~ss," Events; Clare Pistey, Services; 
"I want to hold her account­the student body president As the debate neared the 60-Mcinerney responded. and Brian Churney, Ideas and able to direct senate input. I'm should be the common regula-minute mark, the issue of In an 11-3-2 vote, the senate Issues. 
bitions, including the Museum of Modern Art in New York and the Smithsonian

Sculpture 
Institution. continued from page 1 The piece is on loan from a private, 
anonymous California collector who pro­paint and allows for only a protective vided $10,000 for its installation and layer of rust to form on the metal. interpretation. 
While being aesthetically pleasing, the The collector also donated funds allot­piece should evoke specific feelings in its ted for the publication of an information­viewers, according to Charles Loving, al brochure about the sculpture and associate director of the Snite. artist that will be available free to the 
"Viewers are compelled to visualize the public in coming weeks at the Snite. underground structures suggested by the In the wake of the recent vandalism of sculptures and to imagine themselves the arrow sculpture near O'Shaughnes­inside the tunnels. [The sculptures] sey Hall, Loving hopes that students will should evoke such feelings as isolation understand both the monetary and cul­and claustrophobia," Loving said. tural values of the sculpture. 
Art professor Robert Haywood, who "We want people to know that this with his students studies works by piece is being lent to the University, and Nauman in his modern art classes, notes to respect that. We have it here due to a the artist's post-surrealist style as well as very generous loan and we hope people his ability to provoke a variety of feelings. will respect that. We are also being 
"He portrays this sort of psychic distur­proactive in our security" Loving said. bance of the unconscious. His work is No barriers will be erected around the very cutting and raises many uncomfort­sculpture, but Loving said that Notre able questions, but that's what makes it Dame Security will "keep an extra eye on exciting," Haywood said. it." 
A respected figure in his field, Nauman This loan complements the University "may be the most influential artist of Notre Dame Public Sculpture Project, today," according to the Feb. 21 New which placed 33 outdoor sculptures on York Times. campus through July 1997 and included 
His work has been shown nationally a symposium and a museum exhibition of and internationally at galleries and exhi-contemporary sculpture. 
tion, friendship, romance, intimacy, com­mitment, future commitment, intended
Sex 
permanence, and anything else you might find in a country-western song,"
continued from page 1 
he said. "But what does 'commitment' 
abstinence is much more respected in American society than a sexual decision based on a religious standard," he said. "For most people, participation and mutual consent are all that is really needed to make sex okay." 
The next category Poorman covered was sex within love. 
"We are traversing a whole new world when we bring love into the picture," Poorman stated. "When we talk about this kind of relationship we refer to sex as 'making love,' giving it a whole new definition." 
Poorman stressed that love is a required component for ethical sexual relationships, but that basing sex on love alone is too transitory. 
"Love is situational, and to define love within a relationship is sort of like trying to nail Jell-0 to a tree. You just can't get anyone to firmly commit to 'being in love' or having a deeply committed rela­tionship with future projection." 
Poorman stressed that placing any kind of definition on a degree of a rela­tionship is impossible. 
"Love is interest, attraction, infatua-
I 
WI 
really mean? You can't firmly say where the lines should be drawn." 
Poorman's last category was also the one he firmly believes in: Sex within the context of marriage. He stressed that marriage was the most extreme form of commitment and should therefore be the only place for sex. 
"The ultimate commitment paired with the ultimate physical intimacy: There is a congruency here and the Church's ideal is based on letting those relationships match. 
"Sex can only be practiced ethically if marriage really stands for something. It is the only way that sex makes sense," he said. 
Poorman entertained the argument that a marriage does not mean that peo­ple really love each other by reiterating that sex should only be practiced if every component of marriage is present, including both spousal love and a will­ingness to procreate. 
"The deepest love shares the future; time and openness to kids defines that setting. That's the kind of intimacy that matches sexual intimacy," he asserted. 

------------~~~~-------------------------~-----~-----­
Thursday, March 6, 1997 The Observer • NEWS page 5 
•ISRAEL 
Arafat appeals for U.N. support 
By ROBERT REID 
Associated Press Writer 
UNITED NATIONS 
Yasser Arafat said Wednesday that Israel's decision to build a Jewish housing project in east Jerusalem brought the peace process to a "critical phase" ­and U.N. diplomats are obligated to help save it. 
Arafat also met with Jewish leaders, then left New York to deliver similar messages to two former U.S. presidents: Jimmy Carter in Georgia and George Bush in Texas. 
The U.N. Security Council was to debate on Wednesday after­noon the Israeli decision to build the 6,500-unit Har Homa hous­ing-development in east Jerusalem. 
European representatives cir­culated a draft resolution calling on Israel to avoid moves that threaten final talks on the status of the holy city, part of which the Palestinians want as a future capital. 
Israel's acting ambassador, David Peleg, said council action would do nothing to advance peace. U.S. diplomats also said Washington opposed any bind­ing resolution. 
Arafat said he and council ambassadors discussed "how to implement accurately and hon­estly what has been agreed upon" and "prevent any provo­cations" that endanger peace.­
By approving the housing development, Arafat said, Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu was "pushing the peace process in a very critical and crucial circumstance." 
But diplomats said Arafat's message during the private meeting was restrained. He avoided threats to scuttle the peace process in retaliation for the proposed Israeli housing development. 
Western diplomats who attended the meeting said Arafat told them the council had an "obligation" to play a role in the peace process. 
Several diplomats, all speaking on condition of anonymity, quot­ed Arafat as saying that moves toward peace had reached a "critical phase." They said U.S. Ambassador Bill Richardson repeated President Clinton's statement that he regretted the planned Israeli construction. 
Arafat, who met with Clinton this week, held separate meet­ings with U.N. Secretary-General Kofi Annan, General Assembly President Razali Ismail of Malaysia and ambassadors of the 15-member Security Council. 
Annan said the United Nations would "continue to work with all the parties in the search for peace." 
Israel and the United States traditionally have tried to play down any role for the Security Council in Israeli-Palestinian issues. 
Peleg, the Israeli official, told Associated Press Television that if the Palestinians refrained from taking issues to the Security Council, "we will move much more quickly in the promotion of the peace process." 
appy 21st 
'BUNDSCH of Love-
Looks like you got knocked the #*@! out! 
Love, Nor , Shaft. 
Doog, Funk, and Pantaloons 
i~eed a job for the 1997...98 ;~cademic year? 
Student Activities is now accepting applications for: 
L~Forume Building Manager<: Stepan Center Manager:i Information Desk Attendants Office Assistants 



Local kids depict heroes in contest 
Observer Staff Report 
Two South Bend youths took the podium in the Hesburgh Library Auditorium last night to tell a packed audience about their heroes. 
They were among the 260 participants in an essay con­test sponsored by the Notre Dame chapter of Pi Sigma Alpha, an honor society for government majors. 
The competition was divid­ed into two age brackets ­fifth and sixth-graders in one, seventh and eighth in the other -and was open to ten schools. 
"We asked them to write about a person or leader they admired," explained Dan Ventrelle, secretary of the society and a coordinator of the event. "Letters were sent in November, and the dead­line was early February." 
The judges gave 21 honor­able mentions, and awarded 
U.S. savings bonds, of varying value, to the top five essayists in each age category. 
"It was so neat, all the kids dressed up and brought their parents," Ventrelle said. "Both the winners got to read [their essays,] too." 
He also noted that in many cases, including that of one of the winners, the subjects of the papers attended the cere­mony. 
"Mayor [Steve] Luecke was there," Ventrelle recalled. "He hung out afterward at the reception, eating and talking with the kids." 
Ventrelle cited the hard work of three fellow coordi­nators as being key to the success of the event. 
"Matt Dull, Mike Williams, and Melissa Eastland were involved with judging, orga­nizing, and planning the final 

ceremony," he said. "Our whole membership also helped with the different stages." 
He was unable to state with certainty the development of the contest into an annual project, but he was optimistic about its chances. 
"As a returning officer, I can say that it will definitely be out there as an idea for next year," Ventrelle affirmed. 
• ZAIRE 


Government accepts cease-fire 
By KARIN DAVIES 
Associated Press Writer 
TINGI-TINGI 
The government, reeling from a series of battlefield losses, accepted a U.N. cease-fire on Wednesday, while rebels closed in on a strategic river port that would give them control of the eastern third of Zaire. 
The rebels, on the verge of capturing the provincial capital of Kisangani after weeks of fighting, may not be ready to put down their arms right away. "First we talk, then maybe a cease-fire," said rebel spokesman Kazadi Nyembwe. 
Refugees fleeing the rebel advance reported that scores of people were slain when rebels took over a huge refugee camp in Tingi-Tingi over the week­end. One man said at least 100 refugees died. 
Since September, rebels wanting to overthrow the gov­ernment of President Mobutu Sese Seko have captured a 900­mile swathe of territory in east­ern Zaire. 
Mobutu's 31-year dictatorship has left resource-rich Zaire, Africa's third-largest country, desperately poor. 
Nomination fonns are available in the Student Government office for the 


Student Government 
~~o~~~~ng~~~~~~t::~~~~
community 

and the Frank O'Malley Undergraduate Teaching Award 


For more information about the awards and nomination deadlines call 1-7668 

-----------~-~-----­
-~---­

page 6 The Observer • NEWS Thursday, March 6, 1997 

Sarows: Beware of drug on break 
By PAM CORNELL 
News Writer 
As spring break approaches, and the only thing on the minds of most Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students is a carefree week of relaxation, partying and fun. 
But caution must be taken, says Paul Sarows, because the use and abuse of the "date rape drug," Rohypnol, has increased significantly among college stu­dents in recent years. 
As part of Women's Month, the Saint Mary's Student Academic Council invited Sarows, an inves­tigator with the South Bend Metro Special Operations Section, to speak last night in Stapleton Lounge. 
Kendra Hensch, a senior at Saint Mary's, also spoke on behalf of Sex Offense Services, a community organization in which many Saint Mary's stu­dents are involved. 
Both Sarows and Hensch spoke of the dangers of Rohypnol or "Roofies" and reported that it is quickly becoming the "date rape drug of choice." 
"Rape is happening here on our campus, but most students aren't aware," Hensch said. "There has been an increased incidence of foul play on our campus." 
According to Sarows, the biggest shipments of Rohypnol have been confiscated in south­ern Florida and-Texas -the destinations of many local stu­dents this spring break. 
Rohypnol is a very potent tran­quilizer, similar in nature to vall­urn, but many times stronger. The drug, which originated in Europe in the 1970s as a sleep­ing pill and a muscle relaxer, is still manufactured in most coun­tries of the world except the U.S., England, and China, Sarows said. 
Since its introduction in the 
U.S. in the early 1990s, Rohypnol has quickly gained acceptance and use at high school and col­lege campuses, particularlY at college fraternities. Nationally, over 2,300 cases of Rohypnol abuse have been reported. 
The drug is often combined with alcohol, marijuana, or cocaine to produce a rapid and very dramatic "high," enhancing the effect five to 10 times. Even when used by itself, users can appear extremely intoxicated, with slurred speech, no coordi­nation, swaying, and bloodshot eyes. 
"With a one milligram dose a person will still know what is going on, but after two mil­ligrams there can be possible amnesia," Sarows explained. 
The drug is reportedly given to females in hopes of lowered inhi­bitions and facilitating potential sexual relations. 
"A person is actually awake while on the drug," Sarows explained. 
"They may make neurological sounds which in turn may actu­ally arouse the person who gave them the drug." 
Because Rohypnol may cause amnesia, this makes investiga­tion of sexual offenses very diffi­cult. 
"This drug, which has become a nightmare, makes prosecution almost impossible," Hensch said. "Rohypnol can cause a complete loss of memory." 
Although Rohypnol is illegal in the U.S. and is not manufactured in the U.S., up to 180 tablets can legally be brought in to the U.S. at a time from another country. 
According to Hensch, Rohypnol is colorless, tasteless, odorless, and dissolves immediately in liq­uid. Sedation occurs 15-20 min­utes after administration. Depending on the dosage, the sedation can last three to eight hours. 
Hensch advocated several ways to prevent abuse of Rohypnol: A person ::;hould keep track of her friends, keep track of her drink at all times, get her drink directly from the bar­tender, and if she leaves her drink, should not go back to it. 
If a victim plans to press charges, Hensch also stressed the necessity of a medical exami­nation at a hospital so that evi­dence can be collected. A urine test can detect Rohypnol within 72 hours of administration. 
To make matters worse, according to Hensch, Rohypnol is inexpensive and is reportedly being sold for as little as $2 to $4 per tablet. 
Many times those victimized while under the influence of Rohypnol are hesitant to go to the police because of lack of details of the incident. But both Sarows and Hensch encouraged victims to seek support and to file a police report. 
"If you wake up in an unfamil­iar environment and aren't sure what happened, it won't hurt to go get checked out," Sarows said. 
A 24-hour crisis line has been set up in South Bend, (219) 289­HELP, with both female and male support on staff at all times. 

~mJWr Int{lmlhipz. In 

IRFJ.ANI) 
§>tudy lrilh Politi~ bit{Zre~ and C'ultur{Z 
Th.e-Internships-will-inelude: 
Eight to ten weeks' internship Round trip airfare Room and Board Stipend 
All Notre Dame undergraduate students with a demonstrated interest in these areas are encouraged to apply. 
If interested, please pick up an application from Rev. Timothy R. Scully, C.S.C., Vice President and Senior Associate Provost, 202 Main Building. 
The applications are due by Wednesday, March 
26, 1997. 





IRFJ.ANI) 
~~w wmmr Int~rnzhip Opportunity 
The-Internships-will-inelude.: 
Ten to Twelve weeks' internship Round trip airfare Room and Board Stipend 

All current advanced business undergraduates and MBA students are encouraged to apply.. 
If interested please pick up an application from Rev. Timothy R. Scully, C.S.C., Vice President and Senior Associate Provost, 202 Main Building. 
The applications are due by Wednesday, March 
26, 1997. 

Thursday, March 6, 1997 The Observer • NATIONAL NEWS page 7 

Floods swamp towns as Ohio River banks overflow 
By ANN GIBSON 
Associated Press Writer 
LOUISVILLE, Ky. 

Raging at its highest level in a 
generation, the Ohio River 
swamped more towns up and 
downstream from Louisville on 
Wednesday in a slow-motion 
disaster that may not let up 
until next week. 
Towering flood walls protect­
ed Kentucky's largest city from 
the river, which roiled 14 feet 
above flood stage. It was the 
low-lying towns along the river 
that were most vulnerable to 
flood waters that weren't going 
away. 
"All we can do is wait for 
someone to tell us 'You folks 
can all go home,"' said Sue 
Colomb, 30, as she waited in a 
church shelter after fleeing her 
trailer in the town of West 
Point, 30 miles down river. 
But the water not only didn't 
go down, it rose so high Wednesday that it swamped roads in and out of the town of . 1,200, stranding 60 people who didn't get out or refused to 
leave. 
Ms. Colomb and her 63-year­
old mother took only what they 
could carry when they left earli­
er this week -a TV, VCR, their 
STUDY EUROPE 
SYRACUSE 
ABROAD 
..., 
lN 

STRASBOURG 
EUROPEAN 
STUDIES 

CERTIFICATE 
COUNCIL 

OF EUROPE 
INTERNSHIPS 
GENEROUS 
GRANTS & 
SCHOLARSHIPS 
SYRACUSE UNIVERSITY 119 Euclid Avenue Syracuse, NY 13244-mo 
1·800·235·3472 
suabroad@syr.edu http:// sumweb.syr.edu/dipa 
Nintendo game and some meat from their freezer. 
They put their bed and couch up on kitchen chairs. tables and a bathroom sink. But with their trailers standing in water day after day, they wondered if they will even have a home worth coming back to. 
"It will never be the way it was," Ms. Colomb said. 
Like a big bath tub with the water running, the Ohio River was constantly being filled by runoff from a foot of rain over the weekend. Another quarter inch of rain Wednesday didn't help. 
"It's kind of sitting there," said National Weather Service hydrologist Mike Callahan. "It's going to be a very slow fall .... It might drift up a little bit." 
In fact, the Ohio is expected to crest Friday a half foot higher in Louisville, where it reached 
37.8 feet on Wednesday. That's worrisome news to evacuees, who wondered when they would ever get back to their homes, and raised the fear they could be in for another round of flooding. 
The flood-prone town of Shepherdsville, 20 miles south of Louisville, is just now clean­ing up from floods that swamped 90 percent of its downtown and forced 1,000 people to be taken out by boat. It is on the Salt River, which feeds into the Ohio, and many townsfolk fear they could get another dose of flooding when the Ohio crests. 
"The old-timers say once the river leaves it doesn't come back -but we don't know," added Jack Porter, 27, as he helped clean out a downtown bank where floodwaters had been chest-high. 
"All we're doing is hoping and waiting, hoping the Ol' Ohio doesn't throw us some more backwater," said Butch Sweat, a farmer in nearby Lebanon Junction. His two-story house, partly built with logs in 1865, had water up to the ceiling of the second floor. In much of the town, the only way to get around was by boat. 
In Tell City, Ind., residents thought their town was safely protected by a 20-foot high con­crete flood wall, until the river began gurgling from the ground behind the wall Tuesday night. Water was shooting through by Wednesday, and more than 120,000 sandbags were thrown into place by an army of National Guard soldiers, state prisoners and even schoolgirls. 
In the hard-hit town of Falmouth, rooftop-high flood­waters finally receded to reveal homes off their foundations and sitting in the middle of streets. Everything was covered in cof­fee-colored muck -including the bodies of four more victims. 
That put the death toll at five in the town of 2,700, where Vice President Al Gore was forced to cancel a tour after fog grounded his helicopter. Firefighters set up a temporary morgue and went about the grim task of searching house­by-house for more victims. 
"I am praying that's all we've got," said police officer Ed Ward. "But I don't think it will be." 
The floods already had forced thousands of people from their homes along the Ohio and smaller streams in Tennessee. 
Chinese -American Restaurant and Cocktail Lounge 
Authentic Szechuan, Mandarin and Hunan Cuisine 
Lunches starting at .... $4.25 Dinners starting at .... $5.95 
Banquet rooms available up to 200 




R£AT\VALL 
Bar and Restaurant open 7 days a week 
130 Dixie Way N., South.Bend (next to Howard Johnson) 
Think ofus 
as your scHool bus. 
semester breaks or heading home for your sister's wedding, if going home means catching a plane at Midway or O'Hare; the best way to the airport is United Limo. 
Frequent service, all day from campus gets you there on schedule. And when it's time to hit the books again, we'll pick you up at the airport and bring you back to school. No hassles, no problems. 
For information and schedule 11[)'1SUtt your travel agent or call 
800-833-5555 
I I~ITI=n II~A()
VI ~iii i..U i..ii i i~ 
Your Airport Connection, O'Hare & Midway, All Day•.• Every Day 
United Limo to the Chicago Airports 
leaw Notre Dame Arrive Midway Arrive O'Hare Main Gate (via Tri State Coach-Tennlnals 1, 2, & 3 transfer in Portage) (International terminal 15 minutes later)
4:00a.m. 
6:10a.m. 5:55a.m. 6:00a.m. 
8:10a.m. 
8:20a.m. 

ll:OO a.m. 
10:10 a.m. 
9:55a.m. 

9:00a.m. 
11:10 a.m. 10:55 a.m. 
10:00 a.m. 12:10 p.m. 
11:55 a.m. 

1.2:00 p.m. 2:10p.m. 
1:55 p.m.

1:00 p.m. 3:10p.m. 
2:55p.m.

2:00p.m. 4:10p.m. 
3:55p.m.

4:00p.m. 6:10p.m. 
5:55p.m.

6:00p.m. 8:10p.m. 
7:55p.m. 

Storms damage 
Heavy rainfall has caused rivers in some parts of the Tennessee and Ohio valleys to flood. Thousands have been evacuated and thousands of homes have been damaged. Shaded areas include counties declared federal disaster areas: 
Charleston 
States affected by violent 

weather
200 km_ 


By MARK CHELLGREN 
Associated Press Writer 
FALMOUTH, Ky. 

After the floodwaters that covered this town to its rooftops finally receded, the first people to go back in Wednesday found everything covered in a coffee-colored muck, including the bodies of four more victims. 
The corpses were found as emergency personnel and dog teams went into the town's muddied buildings, many of them swept off their founda­tions and one of them dropped by the river in the middle of Main Street. A fifth body was found in Falmouth on Tuesday, meaning 18 flood-related deaths in Kentucky. 
"I am praying that's all we've got. But I don't think it will be," said Ed Ward, a police officer in this town of 2,500. 


is looking for a 

CONT 
~6)LLER PURCHASI ANAGER. 
Calll-5313 with questions. Interested? Submit resume to 314 LaFortune. 
These are paid positions. 

*Candidates for Controller must be a sophomore or junior accounting major 
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------, 
page 8 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT Thursday, March 6, 1997 
, 
Saturday, March 8 
5:oop.m. ·" 
>F
' :·::,:;::·=·· .:.-,.,... 
Sunday;.. March 9 
10:00 a.m. 
11:45 a.m. 

A PASSION PLAY 
It's Tuesday. Tonight I went to Mass at one of the hall chapels on campus. Although it was not the place I usually attend daily Eucharist, I went because some friends were gathering there to pray. I have to think it was a larger crowd than this hall chapel typically sees. Along with us older folks (though none ofus would readily claim such a designation publicly), the group was primarily made up of a wander­ing band of about a dozen or so students who have committed them­selves to travelling around campus during Lent and attending Mass in each of the hall chapels. 
I was struck in two ways by our gathering: first, by how diverse we were, but second, by how united we were in our prayer and in gath­ering around the table. Our diversity was not evident in the color of our skin or in the range of our religious profession, it was evident in the circumstances of our lives and in our prayer. Among those who had come to the table, there was a student who had applied to be an 
R.A. but did not get the job, and whose pain... not anger, was palpa­ble. He prayed for healing. There was another student around the same table, from the same hall, who did get an R.A. position, whose humility tempered his joy. He prayed in silence. There was a Rector at the table whose father had died only hours earlier, and whose face bore the pain of a loss deeply felt. She prayed for his life, and for her family. There was another Rector present who spoke of his residents with the pride of a father for his sons. He prayed for them and for the homeless. There were several seniors there, two of whom had hoped to do the same service program, one who will and one who won't... both at the table. There was a couple who had had a long­standing relationship but who have since parted ways... together at the table. 
As I sat there and pondered the group gathered, and as I con­sidered the things that occupy my mind and heart in these days, I was more deeply moved by that which we had come to do than I had been in a long time. I thought of my upcoming presbyteral ordination, only a month away, and I laid at the table all the expectations and fears that have concerned me about that in these days. I thought of each of the people gathered there in that room and the power of their stories and the deep passion that they brought to the table of the Lord's Supper. I marveled at our human frailty, and how clearly our brokenness was reflected in the breaking of the bread. At the same time, I delighted in the opportunity that we had to come together in this simple and yet powerful way to support one another, to pray with and for one another, and to share in the mystery of the Body of Christ... to become what we knew ourselves already to be. 
There were many stories around that table in that holy place tonight... some known to those of us gathered... but most unknown... most untold. What compelled us to bring them to that holy place tonight? Was it mere chance that brought us to be there for one another in that moment... in our need? I don't think so. Ultimately, I think we are drawn to the Eucharist because we believe that some­thing more happens there than the merely observable. In this empir­ical age, there is all too little credence given to the power of symbol and of sacrament. There was certainly something more powerful in that room for me this night than any words can here convey or describe. I do believe that God is revealed in such momentsjust as surely as God was revealed in the person ofJesus. Every time we gath­er around the table we glimpse the Easter light andjoy for which we wait and hope. By our gathering together around the table, by our offering our stories... our very lives, in the breaking of the bread, we are fed and strengthened for the journey. Come, eat and drink. 
jim Lies, C. S. C. 

(Z\MPUSMINISTRY 

VIEWPOINT 
Thursday, March 6, 1997 

THE OBSERVER 
NoTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Norre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1996-97 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Elizabeth Foran Managing Editors Business Manager Patricia Carson Matt Casey 
Tom Roland News Editor .. . . ................. Brad Prendergast Advertising Manager ............................ EIIen Ryan Viewpoint Editor ................... Ethan Hayward Ad Design Manager ............................... Jed Peters Sports Editor .... , ................ Timothy Sherman Production Manager ...................... Heather Cocks Accent Editor ............ , ............. .]oey Crawford Systems Manager ....................... Michael Brouillet 
Saint Mary's Editor ................. Caroline Blum Controller.......................................... Tyler Weber Photo Editor .......................... Michael Ruma 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre 
Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. lr does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administra­tion of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned edi­
torials represenc the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commenraries, letters and Inside Columns present the views of the authors, and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's com­
munity and wall readers. The free expression ofvarying opinions rhrough letters is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 

Editor-in-Chief 631-4542 Business Office 631-5313 Managing Editor/Viewpoint 631-4541 Advertising 631-6900/8840 Sports 631-4543 Systems/Marketing Dept. 631-8839 News/Photo 631-5323 Office Manager 631-7471 Accent/Saint Mary's 631-4540 Fax 631-6927 Day Editor/Production 631-5303 Viewpoint E-Mail Viewpoint.! @nd.edu General Information 631-7471 Ad E-Mail observer@darwin.cc.nd.edu 
• TABlE TALK 
Fighting against alcoholism for your right to party 
Here I am, running like mad to keep up with the world, and all of a sudden what do I sec around the corner but spring break, that gift from God which all students pray for through February, that wonderful week signifying the imminent closure of yet another year in college. 
Mick Swiney 

And you thought you wouldn't sur­vive! You cried for Mommy and sucked your thumb before fall break as you waded through papers and midterms. You were ready to give it all up, shave your head and join a cult in December when finals loomed, and you spent most of your study time trying to find an empty cubbyhole on campus. Maybe now you're strung out on coffee and No-Doz. lost in the quads at 4 a.m. convinced that you're a glass of iced tea. 
Okay, maybe that's a little extreme­you may not be ready for a rubber room just yet, but chances are you feel pretty roughed up. After all, Notre Dame faculty assigns the highest work­load in the country next to Stanford, and that's only because we don't con­sider actually showing up to class as part of the workload. This far in the school year, most Domers are a hag­gard mess in dire need of some stress medication ... 
And that's where spring break comes in. 
Where are you going -Cancun, Cozumcl, Padre? Or maybe Key West, Daytona Beach, Ft. Lauderdale? You've probably been planning a trip with your five closest friends since Christmas; you've scrimped, saved, even stooped so low as to work JPW so you could make enough money. Now you're set -it's Thursday afternoon and you've got a plane to catch, a bag to pack, a last-minute run to Meijer's for some suntan lotion. From there, you're home free -you can look for­ward to a week of sun, sand, swimsuits and shades. Oh yeah, and one other thing ... tequila. 
Or Schnapp's. Or Kahlua. Or maybe just good old-fashioned beer -· a six­pack, a case, a keg. Mickey's, Killian's, Corona... everybody's got their favorite, and no better place to enjoy it than on a beach a thousand miles away from du Lac and the Student Affairs Office. 
Going to Mexico? You don't need any Spanish, just this: "Dos cervezas, por favor." Going on a community service trip, an "alternative spring break?" Never fear, Appalachians, you only work during the day-there's a whole week of homework-free nights ahead of you, and somewhere a bar to spend them in, wherever you are. 
On that cheery note, let me tell you a little something about myself. I am 19 years old, a sophomore, and a resident of Morrissey Manor. I spent my high school career having much the same kind of fun that most of you will be having in Cancun next week. As a result, I was kicked out of school for a week at the beginning of my senior year, and barred from-all extracurricu­lar activities and school functions for the fall semester. I was allowed to continue attending high school on the condition that I receive treatment for what was then a serious problem with substance abuse. 
Well, over two years later, I am sober, relatively sane, and a member of Alcoholics Anonymous. 
I mention all of this for a very good reason, especially the part about AA. In my time as a member I have attend­ed meetings all over the country, from my hometown of Tulsa, Okla., to New 
• DOO!\IESBURY 
K&NN&lH 5TARR.­
7}(£1(/H/T&tf/AlCR. 
PR.05&CIJTlJI?AN/l 
.,,.,,,,,.,,,,,,,,,,,,,,.,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,, RJTUR£ l?eAN 
ATP£PP£Rt?IN&l 
Jersey to Chicago to South Bend. 
And I kid you not when I say that, in every single AA meeting I have ever attended in my entire life, I have never once failed to run into at least one graduate from the University of Notre Dame. 
Never. 
In my entire life. 

It is usually the custom in these meetings to share a little bit about one­self, and for each of these gentlemen I have met their story begins the same way: "Well, I never really drank much in high school ... it wasn't until I got to COLLEGE that it all started ..." 
At least one Notre Dame grad in every meeting I have ever been to. 
Impossible, you say. Coincidence. Freak occurrence. After all, two years (going on three) isn't that long a time; how many meetings could I have gone to? Obviously not enough. Maybe I just happen to go to the type of meet­ings Notre Dame alumni would attend? But the truth is, every meeting seems almost like a class reunion -Bill from the Class of 1940 (my grandfather's class), Joe from the Class of 1974 (my father's class), Class of '67, '54, '91. Alcoholic Domers of every race, color, socioeconomic status and gender; alco­holics as old as my grandfather and as young as... well, me. 
But surely this doesn't surprise you? After all, you go here .,--how do you think you got the idea that Notre Dame students are supposed to drink like fish, like a school of the smartest damn fish in the country? Who told you that Notre Dame is a party school? At this university, drinking's been around longer than football -it's part of the tradition, the "link to the past" that binds the alumni to the student body. It's the home football games; it's the crowds of golf-pants wearing grandfa­thers who wander this campus with tears in their eyes and sweatshirts that say "Notre Dame Alumni." 
It's the Alumni-Senior Club. 
But so what? What's wrong with 
GARRY TRUDEAU 
alcohol? My girlfriend turned 21 recently, and she didn't finish the night with a ride in an ambulance. It was a unique celebration, unlike any other birthday. We went out and she ordered drinks from the bar; we saw her family that weekend and she mixed drinks with her relatives. She was inducted into a club, she was welcomed into a happy part of American culture, of human culture. The entire occasion was focused around drinking, but as I sat there sipping my RC Cola I couldn't see one thing wrong with it. 
And why should it be wrong? Drinking's a great social activity, and one that can't hurt anyone as long as we stay upright, responsible and keep calling Saferide (1-9888). 
My point is this -I like Notre Dame. I like all you guys. You're the people I grow with, learn with, live with; you people and the memories I make with you are going to Stay with me until I die. But sad to say, I will never be able to have a drink with you or join you at the bar, because I have lost the right to do so. 
Which is perfectly okay -I'm used to it, and indeed I kinda like it. My life is spent in the vast world outside of Bridget's and C.J.'s. I'm glad I can enjoy life without getting distracted by alcohol issues. But here's the deal ­you've got to fight for your right to party. You've got to take care of your­self in Mexico, Florida, or wherever. You've got to drink (and maybe get drunk) like the aspiring adults you are, and stay safe, upright, healthy and happy. Your life depends on it. 
But for now our lives haven't even started yet, so be young and have fun, even if what you drink is something other than Pepsi. And though I want to see all of you again someday, let's try to have our reunions in the JACC, and not in any AA meetings. 
Mick Swiney is a sophomore Arts and Letters major. His column appears every other Thursday . 
• fiUOTE OF THE DAY 
"In dreams begins respon­sibility" 
-William Butler Yeats 

---------------~-~-~-------------­
VIEWPOINT 
page 10 Thursday, March 6, 1997 
• lETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Right Reason editors demand reasoning for blasts on their Christianity 
Dear Editor, 
We usually find Irfan Khawaja's column well-reasoned, but his latest editorial criticism of Right Reason (Tues., Feb. 25) was far below the high standard of logi­cal rigor he has led us to expect. While he is generous in his usc of words which indicate analytic thinking, he does not in fact make a true "inference" or show any logical "contradiction." Indeed, in an editorial full of bold accusations which pre­tend to be based on reason rather than prejudice, we cannot find a single rational argument. It is easy enough to see where the arguments should be. The "contra­diction" is supposed to have something to do with our characterizing theological obedience and orthodoxy as a form of freedom, rather than despotism. But we see no contradiction. And like Ex Corde Ecclesiae-which we have read but Mr. Khawaja apparently has not -we see no contradiction in an obedient Catholic institution including non-Catholics. (Indeed, Protestant senior editor Joshua Hochschild is a co-author of the piece in Right Reason that Mr. Khawaja criti­cizes.) If Mr. Khawaja complains so loudly of contradictions, he has a responsibil­ity to show them, not just claim that they are there. 
Even more unfair is Mr. Khawaja's accusation that we "tolerate slavery." Mr. Khawaja seems to think that toleration of slavery would follow from our claim that a Christian notion of freedom is other than the secular notion of freedom from worldly restraint. We say "seems to think," because here again there is not argument; and of course there could be no argument, because our use of Scripture does not entail a support of slavery. We shouldn't have to say it, but we do not believe that slavery is moral, and we do not believe that Christian teaching includes acceptance of slavery. Mr Khawaja correctly points out that historically Biblical passages have been used to try to justify slavery, but as he should know, this historical fact does not prove that the Bible properly understood teaches in favor of slavery. 
Nothing that Mr. Khawaja said contributes to a discussion of the merits of the long tradition of the Church's teaching that there is a radical difference between worldly and heavenly freedom. We would have liked to sec Mr. Khawaja offer some real arguments that would be relevant to such a discussion (contrary to the stereotype to which Mr. Khawaja shamelessly exploits, orthodox Christians are not fascists and have an interest in rational debate). We would guess from his causal appeal to the Bill of Hights and John Milton that Mr. Khawaja is applying a different standard of freedom based on his own classical liberalism, and it would be interesting to discuss the relevance or compatibility of his standards to ours. But we will not waste time trying until he demonstrates a mutual willingness to engage in discussion. We hope that he is willing, because it would be more chari­table to assume that an enthusiastic young writer accidentally descended to imprudent bluster, than to assume that a graduate student of philosophy purpose­fully implied that he was giving argument when in fact he was not, just in order to dress up his innuendo and accusation, or, worse, in order to willingly deceive the less educated. 
THE EDITORIAL BOARD OF RIGHT REASON FREDERICK C. KELLY, Editor in Chief JOSHUA P. HOCHSCHILD, Senior Editor DANIEL P. MOLONEY Editor Emeritus 

I want to use this forum to recognize and thank the Voices of Faith and Chandra Johnsonand any others who I have rnissed for the wonderful spir­it-filled liturgy held in the Basilica to close Black History month. 
As a member of the Notre Dame Folk Choir, it was a rare occasion to sit in the pews and be ministered to. To put the eventin context, last Sunday was a sort of "time out" for the folk choir, a chance to sit back and take a breather and retl,ec~ on.our own ministry. The weary folkheads went to breakfast, a 45-minute retreat, arid then to Mass. Speaking for myself, I can only sa,y ~hat the.liturgy was one of the most uplifting of the year and this is due 1n large partto the wonderful, inspiring music of Voices of Faith. Their enthusiastic sharing of the African-American spirituals, the continuous spontane01,1S affirmations to ,,soloists and preachers, and their pure joy was something to behold. Thank you for lifting us up and chal· lenging us to loqk beyond color ar\d race: This folkhead is indeed rejuve­nated by your ministry and hope we will see more of you. To all who were part of the Mass, I can't think of a better culmination to a month devoted to Black history aJid,cult:ure. And l can'tthlnk ofa group I would rather lis­ten to when my own spirit is drooping. 

JULIE WILBERDING 
University ofNotre Dame Folk Choir Graduate Student OffCampus 

Stop whining: Notre Dame is no homophobic hotbed 
Dear Editor, 
Recently, Scholastic published an article about the homophobia on this campus. I am an active, healthy, and understood member of the gay popula­tion at the University of Notre Dame. While I cannot deny the fact that homophobia is a problem on this cam­pus, I must also state that the climate on this campus is not as bad as many want us to believe. I am thrilled to see in the four years that I've been a stu­dent at the University that something like this has been done. However, I cannot remain silent. 
I am a member of the Standing Committee for Gay and Lesbian Student Needs. I was not "hand­picked" by Patty O'Hara, as was implied by John Blandford. I was offended by that statement. I am not a puppet controlled by the Administration. I asked Professor O'Hara to be on the committee. The student representatives of the Standing Committee all asked Professor O'Hara to be members of the committee. I finally wanted to stop playing the pas­sive role on this campus. I wanted to take the compromises offered to the gay community and expand upon them. I want to leave my mark on this University. 
I'm not trying to say that Notre Dame is immune to homophobia. It should not just be Notre Dame that we are concerned about, though. I have expe­rienced minimal homophobia on this campus. I am lucky; I know others who haven't been so lucky. Before we start blaming Notre Dame and the adminis­tration for this homophobic atmos­phere, we must look to society first. Society must stop teaching people, children in particular, to hate that which is different. When, and only when, society accepts homosexuals and our lifestyle, will homophobia become a thing of the past. I'm more nervous about homophobia in the real world than I am about Notre Dame. This is a closed environment. Only cer­tain variables are allowed to enter. I fear gay bashers on the outside more than I do here. 
I must also address the "Final Word." The poem written by this stu­dent is quite discouraging. I identify with him to a point. I felt the same way in my freshman year. I feel that many of his fears, while founded, are only made worse by his imagination. lie pictures a campus of hatred. It's not. He seriously under estimates this cam­pus. He also hopes that God will love him. No one has to hope that God will love them. God loves all His creations. God has a plan for this anonymous stu­dent -hopefully he will realize this. lie also pleads with the community to love him as an individual. I must ask if he has attended any of the gay support group meetings. There he will be accepted and loved as the individual that he is. He will find the acceptance that he longs for. There he may even find the courage and strength to face the possible rejections and judgments. There he can be who he wants to be. Take baby steps, but take steps. Don't live in constant fear. I lived in fear for years, but not anymore. I refuse to let fear rule my life. The advice I offer is the advice that parents have been giv­ing their children for centuries. Face your fears; only then will you be able to conquer them. Being afraid is natur­al, but being afraid for your whole life isn't. 
Homophobia will only disappear when society realizes there is nothing different between gays and straights, other than what physical, mental, and chemical attractions are felt. I don't believe there will ever be a time when homophobia will not exist. It is difficult for people to get used to things that are different from the standards. I want to see homophobia disappear, but I know it won't happen until people raise their children to love uncondi­tionally. Children learn hate from their parents. 
Let's not believe that Notre Dame is a hotbed of homophobia. It has its prob­lems, but what universities and col­leges don't? Let's not worry about GLND/SMC anymore. That debate is over, as far as I'm concerned. Let's work with what we have. The only way to get the atmosphere to change is to try and educate, which is the goal of the Standing Committee for Gay and Lesbian Student Needs. Education is the first step. I call the gay community to stop whining and being divisive, and work with what is on the table and then maybe together we can change the homophobic environment. I'm doing my part. Are you doing yours? 
SEAN B. GEARY Senior Stanford Hall 

-------------------~----~--------------------­
Thursday, March 6, 1997 
david bowie 
Earthling 
-c(~~~ 
(out of five stars) 

A
t the age of 50, one might consider it time to settle down, put the feet up and 
rest on many a well deserved laurels. 
David Bowie, for good or ill, does not think like this, and although for the past few years such an attitude has resulted in ill, a minor return to worthiness now arrives in the form of Earthling. Bowie fans may be pleased by this, but equally could be disappointed with the style of the album -a fusion of traditional Bowie pop and hardcore backbeat techno in true Chemical Brothers fashion. The best of the album is a coin toss between "Battle for Britain" and "Dead Man Walking" (apparently nothing to do with the movie, thankfully). Both have fast, jungle backing tracks overlaid with the usual Bowie vocals and accompanied by all the bloops, beeps and bumps of the electronic uni­verse. Epic and ambitious, their merit lies in the fact that they will alienate only rabid techno and "old" Bowie stalwarts while appealing to the vast majority who will listen to anything if it is done well. 
Also worthy of mention is ''I'm Afraid of 
U2 
Pop 
~(~~~ 
(out of five stars) 

F
or some fans, imagining U2 going "elec­tronic" is as disturbing as imagining their parents jumping up and down jn silver, puffy Nautica parkas and bright green Caesar haircuts, slapping their head and yelling ''I'm a firestarta! Wicked firestarta!" To some U2 diehards-i.e. those who have thought about making a hajji to California to see a joshua tree -the image of Bono cutting some wax on wheels of steel is as psychologically ravaging as the image of their parents having sex. But such is the catch 22 of rock and roll-you're damned if you change, damned if you don't. 
But after all the hype, all the glitter, all the pic­tun~s of the Edge in vinyl pants, it boils down to this: Pop is the most consistently engaging U2 album since the Joshua Tree. Don't be fooled, it's not as "techno" as they would have you believe. Sure, "Mofo" mimics Future Sound of London or a Sony Playstation game soundtrack more than "Mysterious Ways," and "Discotheque" is more an experiment with guitar petals and drum machines than a fleshed out song, but Pop's remainder fuses the world-recog­nizable U2 ballads and propulsive rock (at this point as recognizable as the Coke wave or Nike swoosh) with state-of-the-art studio tricks and pinches of trip-hop/illbient drum-and-bass. In fact. songs like "Staring at the Sun" and "Gone" sound more like Ride or the Verve than the Chemical Brothers, with their expansive, psyche­delic guitar lines. "Miami" had me hooked like a large mouth bass with the delicious "Ba-buh-ba" lure and aluminum guitar line. Drop the lights low, wear lots of glow-in-the-dark accessories 
1. Moby -Animal Rights 2. U2-Pop 
3. Redd Kross-Show World 
4. 
Beck -Odelay! 

5. 
Wilco-Being There 


Courtesy of Exploded View Music 

Americans," a slower industrial piece filled with samples and heightened by a heavy, intense chorus greatly influenced by Nine Inch Nails. "Seven Years in Tibet" is from the same catalog; both sexy and ominous -its first line is "Are you ok? You've been shot in the head." This may sound like a stupid question, but that's a musician for you. Tracks that prevent this album from being brilliant include the mediocre "The Last Thing You Should Do" and the insipid "Little Wonder," both of which are inferior imi­tations of the better songs. Despite this one must admire Bowie's tenacity; having been around for years, he still remains admirably unafraid to proceed in new directions. 
by Julian Elliott 
and chest-revealing velvet clothing, smoke German cigarettes and drink Japanese beer, and make out on a leather couch in the strobing blue glow of a 52" television while spinning Pop. That appears to be the intended aesthetic. 
Sublime inspiration was behind the titling of Pop. "Pop" entails all that is kitsch, unforesee­ably embarrassing, commercial, and hauntingly enchanting and titillating in culture. "Pop" copies underground fads, polishes them up for the general public, and saturates the market with them. "Pop" also means damn catchy music (by definition at least). U2's latest offering both parodies the commercial music industry, while successfully and creatively navigating in its own conventions, and serves up piping hot U2 tunes that completely blow away the tinkering of Zooropa. Lord hopes that U2 recorded over those Passengers DATs to lay down these new treats. 
So, Mr. and Mrs. U2ophile, don't be afraid of the "new" U2. It's just the same old stuff you bought a generation ago modernized and repack­aged for 1997. We went from bell-bottoms to parachute pants to dirty jeans to vinyl pants. U2 went from War to the Joshua Tree to Achtung Baby to Zooropa to Pop. Just go with the flow, consumer. 
by Brent DiCrescenzo 
wvfltop 5 
1. Pavement -Brighten the Corners 
2. Built to Spill -Perfect From Now On 
3. Chisel-It's Alright, You're OK 
4. 
Helmet -Aftertaste 

5. 
Morphine -Like Swimming 


page 11 
nd 
n~~·-~-~ clas· .. Helfgott
n 7 
, ~'(It) means the everything. Very 
; of a miracle. his struggle to · his attempt of his father, his 
t.o visithim, his subsl:lqtient meeting of 
. .. occurs he is performing {refl;lrred to as the ti:filn~: fl!liS int¢nse scene, the 
J.nt,,,.,..~j-furiously· pounding for a pie<;e he had skill[WIY fly over the 
·continues in slow 20 Sl:lconds -the tll~ keysili ~Hence. · 
as··_a. weary Helfgott··· piece. is for movie critic 
investment ln quality matt~r) by a host of ·· centuties. · tion a.:te masterfully music coordinator; 

-
-.;;"'"b'·" in the final scenes is sopra11o tackle a tow­~+~~?·P·-"'l!Su.~;Lu rolL of musical offerings for theater-goers -a def­

..---------------~------~-------------------------­
----------------------------------------------------------, 
page 12 The Observer • SPORTS Thursday, March 6, 1997 
• SOFTBALL 
Struggling Irish to head west 
By ALLISON KRILLA 
Sports Writer 
Most people like to ease into the water, dipping their toes in before they're comfortable enough to jump into the pool. The Notre Dame softball team dove head-first into the 1997 season, and now they find themselves furiously treading water, trying to stay afloat. 
A senior-laden Irish team struggled in the Arizona State Tournament in Tempe, Ariz., falling to the host Sun Devils and an Indiana team that fin­ished the '96 season ranked 23rd in the NSCNUSA Today Top 25 poll. Following the two five-inning defeats, Notre Dame traded runs with a ranked Iowa squad into the 1Oth, until the Irish couldn't hold on any longer, losing 4-3. Against Auburn in their final game of the tournament, the Blue and Gold notched one in the win column, a 4-2 defeat of the 
.. 
Tigers. 
Hardly faring better at the National Fastpitch Coaches Association Leadoff Classic, the Irish dropped close contests to Massachusetts and sixth-ranked South Carolina. Kelly Nichols, the star of the pitching staff, allowed only two hits in the eight-inning thriller, but the lack of run support forced her to take the loss. 
Notre Dame arrived home sporting a 2-7 overall record despite their tenacity and re­fusal to be intimidated by top-notch competition. Numbers don't always tell the truth. 
"These games are tough be­cause we don't have a chance to recover," said head coach Liz Miller. "We're not concerned with our record right now. There have only been two games we were blown out of­we need to win more of the close games." 
Perhaps the key to turning 

Kelly Nichols leads the Irish pitching staff with a 1.52 era. 
the season around a little earli­er than expected lies in the arms of three talented right-handed hurlers who have yet to reach their potential this season. 
Junior Kelly Nichols leads the team with an impressive 1.52 ERA, while senior Joy Battersby and sophomore Angela Bessolo have struggled to find their rhythm. 
"Kelly Nichols has thrown ex­tremely well. She has given us a great performance every time out," said Miller. 
Although Battersby has yet to win a game in 1997, Miller is confident that she will find her niche, and return to last sea­son's form when she went 9-5 with a 1.85 ERA. 
"Joy is getting better every game," commented Miller. 
Angela Bessolo, Big East Co-Rookie of the Year in 1996 with a 1.01 ERA and a sparkling 7-1 record, needs to rediscover her form in order for the Irish to be successful in their 1997 campaign. 
"Angela is out of her rhythm. She's allowing herself to get too deep in the count and she's be­ing taken out of her game," said Miller. 
The Irish face another tough road trip in the coming week, traveling to Oklahoma City, Okla. for the Sooner Classic. They will square-off against Baylor, Stephen F. Austin and Kansas in pool play on Fri., March 7, followed by two days of tournament action March 8-9. Notre Dame then heads to San Jose, Calif. for Spring Break, a grueling trip, where they will play Missouri on Thurs., March 13 to warm-up for the National Invitational Tournament also held in San Jose, on March 14-16. 
"The key for us is to really concentrate on what we have to do. We're looking for our bats to come alive. We have to learn to relax and attack." said Miller. 
The Irish look to take advan­tage of their tough schedule early in the season to prepare them for a rematch with Indiana in their home opener on March 25. 
Maybe a head-long dive into the season will pay off for the Blue and Gold when conference play begins. They sure hope so. 
a,P,t) by 
dvts~:ry 
Board, comprised of 10 na­tional and regional sports j()yrnalist~; BQylaP:•·•li prod{tFt
of Benet Academy in Lisle, Illinois. was selected from more than 360,000 girls na­tionwide>· 
Boylan, previously chosen as both the Illinois Athlete of the Year and the Midwest Region Athlete of the Year, is the tirst female athlete from Illinois to receive national honors from Gatorade. 
Recruited as a setter, Boylan saw her stock go through the roof last summer wll.en she competed in the 
U.S. Junior select team that competed internationally. She was previously named the Chi<;ago Sun-Times Player of the Year and is a three-time East Suburban All-Conference pick. For the Redwings, Boylan contributed 53 solo _r. and_... _ 
''"''""" .Yl'>OU 
the national 
team has brought hergame to 
ano9Jer le-ve~;:~ 
--~oylan, ~P bon<l:r student;·· 
scored 25 on the ACT and had 
a 3.23 grade point average. 
Sh~ also ~e!ped C(}.~ch fifthc. 
gre~ers at ~t~ Joan: of · -­
gra~e school in Lisle an 
play~ for t~e natio.l1al S 
V yba!l~1\lh, o);le>of __ 
p _Jer chili.t6ams in the U.S; 
Boylan joins ·an elite list of 
past Circle IJf Champions win­-ne~~ in eightsports, -iricluding . Emmitt Smith, Alonzo 
Mourning and Alex_ Rodriguez. 
She is the second winner of 
th~ Gatorade National 
Volleyball Player of the Year. 
The Gatorade Circle of 
Champions program recog­
nizes athletes in 50 states and 
The District of Columbia, eight 
regional and one national 
Player of the Year in football, 
baseball, boys' and girls' 
basketball, girls' volleyball, 
soccer and boys' and girls' 
track & field. Nominations 
can be submitted by coaches, 
school administrators or fans 
to any member of the 
Gatorade National Advisory 
Board or Scholastic Coach 
magazine, administrator of 
the award program. 
Travis Minor, who opted to 
attend Florida State over 
Notre Dame, received this 
year's award in football. 
• COLLEGE fOOTBALL 
Holtz signs on with CBS 
Associated Press "College Football Today." 
He will go to work on the 
NEW YORK new half-hour show beginning 
Former Notre Dame football next Sept. 13 along with co­coach Lou Holtz has signed a analyst Craig James. Jim Nantz multiyear contract with CBS is considered to be the fron­Sports as an analyst for its ex­trunner for the job as host of panded pregame show, the show. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. ro 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p,m. ro 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. 

Classifieds Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
ILOST & FOUND I Elementary Ed. Major to tutor 5th grade girl,11. After School &/or Weekends. 52136 Lilac Rd (N of  ALASKA SUMMER EMPLOYMENT -Fishing Industry. Details on how to find a high-paying job with excellent  NAVY ROTC Seniors-Ex. Nuc L T has plenty of good uniforms and other mise items for sale  Derek M.-Yo, cloudy-city-man! Glutton for punishment; but. oh, so cute/ Have an awesome break! a  ########################### ATIENTION all LESBIAN. GAY, BISEXUAL. and QUESTIONING  
Cleveland and S of Auten on St Joe  benefits (transportation + room &  size 42/XL. $199 for all. 287-4609  valentine  students. faculty. and staff: That  
River), $15/hr, call277-7403 before  board), For information: 800-276­ group you know and love is having  
Found: Green & Purple Sierra  9p.m.  0654 ExtA55841  (We are a  FREE Phone Card, No restrictions,  a general meeting followed by a  
Athletic Bag with Reebok light hik­ research & publishing company,)  Nothing to join, Nothing to lose..19  JNP:Hot stuff-Mr. Heat  social TODAY at 7:30.  Call the a­ 
ing boots and other items.  Please  Babysitter Wanted for 1 yr old in our  min. in the U.S, SASE to : Free  Machine, thanks for your incredible  LINE at 236-9661 for more informa­ 
call277-6982 to claim! WANTED  home 50 hrs/wk. Castle Pt 243-0785 eves 616-683-3140 days ND SRS-1 will buy your grad tix  FOR RENT _I '=A=FF=O=RD=A=B=LE=1=,2=,&=3=B=D,....RM--'  Phone Card, PO Box 1041, Logansport, IN 46947 I PERSONAL  friendship+.Be a good boy while away! Luv,u-no Shaun,"lce Man:" Happy B-day!  tion. ########################### BOBAPALOOZA  
Anne 289-4922  HOMES, AVAIL. NOW. NEAR  Party well & enjoy break! ndhwn  
SUMMER JOBS  CAMPUS, GILLIS PROPERTIES  Electrolysis by Rebecca  BOBAPALOOZA!!!  
ALL LAND/WATER SPORTS  NANNY/MOTHER'S HELPER  272-6551  Blend Method 674-6933  Adoption: A very loving, financially  
- PRESTIGE CHIDREN'S CAMPS  POSITION near Vail, Colorado  secure, well educated young cou­ 
ADIRONDACK MOUNTAINS  beginning mid-May. Room and  FAX IT FAST!I!  ple. long to adopt your newborn.  
NEAR LAKE PLACID  board. salary. Must have car. insur­ Staying on campus for the sum­ Sending & Receiving  Close and caring extended family.  Are you threatening me?  
1-800-786-8373  ance. Call Rick or Deb Travers (H)  mer? Rent our College Park  at  We offer a special life for your child.  
970-328-7203 or (W) 970-476-7646  Condo. Clean. close to campus,  THE COPY SHOP  Expenses paid. Please call Sherri &  NEED RIDE to Kansas City  
Need ride to NY city for spring  or send letter/resume to P.O Box  air-conditioned. Call 273-5833  LaFortune Student Center  Joe 1-800-378-6680.  -Spring Break-call Jen X1485  
break, help with gas and tolls.  127, Eagle. CO 81631.  Our Fax# (219) 631-FAX1  
Call Jake at 243-8412.  FAX IT FASTII!  Shooting Cupid will play the loft  Let it suffice for me to repeat the  
The Early Childhood Development  New 5 bedroom home. two bath,  soon, very soon.  classic dictum: The library is a  
CRUISE & LAND-TOUR EMPLOY­ Canter at Saint Mary's College has  two car garage. Central air, dish­ Celebrate the end of midterms  Be there, or we may have to take  sphere whose exact center is any  
MENT-Industry offers Travel (Hawaii, Mexico, Caribbean), imcomparable benefits, & good pay. Find out how to start the application process now! Cruise Employment Services provides the answers. Call  employment opportunities over Spring Break (March 10-14) for individuals who enjoy young chil­dren. If you are available to work either 7:30 a.m.-1:15 p,m. or 12 p.m. -6 p.m. (Monday through Friday) and are interested in spend­ washer, disposal, fridge/icemaker. washer/dryer included, $1500112 mo. lease. Call 232-4527 or 638-5038. FOR SALE  with Fat Rader & the Bad Guys I Finnigan's: Thursday, March 6 Class of 1998 Bob Davie addresses the CLASS  your dog. (P,S. listen closely today and you can hear them play) ATIN: SRS./FB FANS B'NBREGISTRY-FINE HOMES­GRAD/FA ORIFB wknds.  one of its hexagons and whose cir­cumference is inaccessible. Foxtrot Foxtrot Foxtro! This message was NOT brought to you by Dan.  
800-276-4948 Ext. C55846 (We are  ing time reading children's books,  OF 1998 on Mar. 20th at 7:30pm.  291-7153  
a research & publishing company)  building with blocks. and singing  Bed -Queensize orthopedic premi­ Tix at LaF. info desk this Wed.  Heather V ... Hey Chica. Have the  
NEED RIDE to Kansas City -Spring Break-call Jen X1485  songs with children. contact Cindy Hestad at 284-4693 as soon as possible! Have fun and get paid too!  um mattress set. Never used still in package -cost 550 sacrifice 175, (219) 674-2352  FREE!!II/1  HAPPY 21st BIRTHDAY, JESSICA BALSTER (March 11 ),  best day of your life today! Anything is possible!-MK :-)  

Thursday, March 6, 1997 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 13 
-
M 


VOLUME 2, NUMBER 6 1997 


Hi! I'm Colleen Henshaw, your NIKE Student Rep. It's my job to spotlight sports & NIKE knowledge on this campus for you. If there's something that you think is missing on this SportsPage or if you know of an EXTRAORDINARY non-Varsity athlete who deserves recognition, let me know at colleen.henshaw@nike.com ... If you want to talk to NIKE HO directly, use: sports.page@nike.com. 
1 WOMEN'S SOFTBALL/V M/W SWIM.& DIVING 
AT NCFA LEADOFF CLASSIC IRISH SHAMROCK CLASSIC COLUMBUS, GA ROLFS AQUATIC CENTER 
MEN'S BASEBALL/V WOMEN'S TENNISN 
VS. MEMPHIS VS. DUKE, ECK TENNIS AT SVCE. ACADEMIES CLASSIC PAV., 11AM MILLINGTON, TX, 3:00PM MEN'S BOXING/C 

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~\~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~!!~~~~~~~~tiM~E~N~'S~B~A~S~K~ET~BrA1L~L/V~~~B:EN1G~A~LrB02U~T~SBFI~NA:L~S_J
~ ~ ~ U ~ U U AT BOSTON COLLEGE, NOON JACC, 700 PM 
-;;
.. 
" 
E
..
..
.. 
c 
..0 
v 
II 
v 
..
.. 
> 
II 
> 
.. 
0 
.. c 
..
.,
.. 
u
.,
.. 
0 
v 
II 
0 
v 
2  3  4  5  I  6  7  8  
M/W SWIM. & DIVINGN  RUNNING GROUP  WOMEN'S SOFTBALL/V  MEN'S  
IRISH SHAMROCK CLASSIC  ADMIN. BLDG, 430 PM  AT OKLAHOMA TOURNAMENT  BASEBALL/V  
ROLFS AQUATIC CENTER  · •·  MEN'S BASEBALL/V  VS. PENN STATE  
WOMEN'S TENNISN  WON'T FIT ON 7TH. . .  VS. SW TEXAS STATE  AT SAN ANTONIO, TX  
AT NORTHWESTERN, 9:00AM  WOMEN'S TENNISN  SAN ANTONIO, 3:00 PM  7:00 PM  
MEN'S VOLlEYBALL/C  VS. MICHIGAN  MEN'S TENNISN  
VS. PURDUE  ECK TENNIS PAV., 7:30PM  ..... 0  VS. IOWA  
JACC AUXILIARY GYM  ECK TENNIS PAVILION  
700 PM  3:30 PM  
9  10  11  12  13  14  15  
MEN'S BASEBALL/V  MEN'S BASEBALL/V  MEN'S  MEN'S  WOMEN'S SOFTBALL/V  WOMEN'S SOFTBALL/V  MEN'S LACROSEEN  
VS. TEXAS-PAN AM.  VS. TEXAS-PAN AM.  lACROSSEN  BASEBALL/V  VS. MISSOURI  AT NAT. INVIl TOURNAMENT  AT LOYOLA (MD), 1:00 PM  
SAN ANTONIO, 7:00PM WOMEN'S TENNISN  SAN ANTONIO, 1:00PM WOMEN'S TENNISN  AT DELAWARE 3:00PM  AT IRISH SPRING CLASSIC VS. PENN STATE  AT SAN JOSE, CA, NOONMEN'S BASEBALL/VAT IRISH SPRING CLASSIC  SAN JOSE, CA MEN'S BASEBALL/V  M/WTRACKN AT CAL. POLYTECHNIC STATE  
VS. WAKE FOREST  VS. TEXAS  SAN ANTONIO, TX  VS. CREIGHTON  AT IRISH CLASSIC  SAN LUIS OBISPO, CA  
ECK TENNIS PAVILION  ECK TENNIS PAVILION  7:00'PM  SAN ANTONIO, TX, 7:00PM  VS. NE ILLINOIS  WOMEN'S TENNISN  
'1 00 PM  2:00PM  RUNNING GROUP  MEN'S TENNISN  SAN ANTONIO, TX, 7.00 PM  AT SAN DIEGO STATE  
ADMIN. BLDG, 4:30PM  AT BLUE/GRAY NAT'L CLASSIC  11:00 AM  
MONTGOMERY, AL  
16  17  18  19  20  21  22  
MEN'S  RUNNING GROUP  M!WTRACKN  MEN'S BASEBALL/V  MEN'S TENNISN  ~  
VOLLEYBALL/C VS. MICHIGAN STATE JACC AUXILIARY GYM  ADMIN. BLDG, 4:30 PM  AT STANFORD M!WTRACKN AT ALABAMA RELAYS  AT SETON HALL NOON MEN'S lACROSSEN  VS. BALL STATE ECK TENNIS PAVILION 1:00PM  c " z  
700 PM  TUSCALOOSA, AL  VS. DARTMOUTH MOOSE KRAUSE FIELD 2:00PM  SAILING/C VS. MICHIGAN  z 0 ,. "  
z  
0  
~  
23  24  25  26  27  28  29  ::'  
MEN'S  WOMEN'S SOFTBALL/V  MEN'S  WOMEN'S  WOMEN'S SOFTBALL/V  M!WTRACKN  <  
BASEBALL/V AT SETON HALL NOON SAILING/C VS. MICHIGAN  VS. INDIANA, 2:00 PM MEN'S BASEBALL/V VS. WESTERN MICHIGAN ECK STADIUM, 5:00 PM  BASEBALL/V VS. NE ILLINOIS ECK STADIUM 5:00PM RUNNING GROUP  SOFTBALL/V AT SETON HALL, NOON MEN'S BASEBALL/V VS. CENTRAL MICHIGAN ECK STADIUM, 5:00 PM  AT SETON HALL 11:00AM MEN'S BASEBALL/V AT UCONN, NOON MEN'S LACROSSEN  AT SUN DEVIL INVIl TEMPE, AZ M!WTRACKN AT PUilDUE INVIl WOMEN'S TENNISN  ~ :z z X  
ADMIN. BLDG, 4:30 PM  VS. HOBART  VS. PURDUE  
MOOSE KRAUSE FIELD  ECK TENNIS PAVILION  
2:00PM  1:00PM  
30  31  
MEN'S  
BASEBALL/V  
AT Sl JOHN'S, NOON  
WOMEN'S  
TENNISN  
AT TENNESSEE  
200 PM  

s 
I know there are lots of you out there getting in 
shape for spring break. Just because your week in 
the sun soon will be over DOES NOT mean you 
D 
shouldn't stick to your workout routine once you get 
back. I have ways of knowing who does and who 
E 
doesn't keep it up, and ways of rewarding those who L do! ... Tired of the same old routine? As the weather warms up, check out our weekly running group that
I 
meets every Wednesday at 4:30p.m. at the Admin 
N Building. Look for cool surprises and guests with lots of NIKE know-all in the near future .
E 
For those of you who are out there playing football
s 
and such in the rain or the sun, drop me an e-mail at • colleen.henshaw@nike.com. You never know when I just might show up! 
LIL' PENNY STill ROLLING 

Did your invitation to Lil' Penny's Super Bowl party 
get lost in the mail? Here's another chance to hang 
out with Anfernee Hardaway's alter ego: The Lil' Penny World Tour is com­ing to campus. Ke~p your eyes peeled and y6ur bathing suit handy. 


D 0 IN G I T ... 
Tim Kistner, a junior from Houston, Texas is no ordinary domer athlete. 
Born with cerebral palsy, Kistner recently competed in the Paralympics 
in Atlanta. He also carried the Olympic torch en route to that same city this summer. 
Kistner is a two-time national cham­pion in the 400-meter and currently holds the national. record in this event; 

he was a member of the U.S. National Soccer Team that competed in England in 1991. Kistner scored the game-winning goal that same year for his Texas state team in the National Championship. 
In 1992, Kistner again traveled with the national team to compete in the Paralympics 1n Barcelona. In 1995 Kistner competed in the Pan AM games as well and the Olympic Festival in Colorado Springs, where he placed 6th in the 100-meter dash. 
Kistner embodies the spirit of a great athlete and Paralympian. 
CAMPUS CORRESPONDENT: TIMOTHY 5. MCCONN, JUNIOR 
THE GOAL OF THIS SPORTSPAGE IS TO INFORM STUDENTS ABOUT SPORTS ON CAMPUS. NIKE DOES NOT SPONSOR ANY VARSITY, INTRAMURAL OR CLUB SPORTS ON THIS CAMPUS AND THIS PAGE DOES NOT IN ANY WAY IMPLY SUCH SPONSORSHIP. 
-
page 14 The Obse;ver • SPORTS 
• HOCKEY 

leers garner post-season honors 
Special to the Observer one of seven players to be CCHA Tournament banquet, at 
named to the 1996-1997 CCHA which time the conference 
The post-season produced All-Academic team, as an­award winners will be honored some notworthy accolades for nounced yesterday by the con­as well. Those honorees will the Notre Dame hockey team, ference office. include Notre Dame forward including CCHA All-Rookie and Noble is the fourth Notre Joe Dusbabek, one of six play­All-American selections for the Dame player to be so honored ers named earlier this week to Irish. in the last five seasons, joining the conference all-rookie team 
The 1996-97 Bauer Central Curtis Janicke (1992-93), Carl and a leading candidate for Collegiate Hockey Association Picconatto ('92-'93) ·and Gary CCHA rookie of the year hon­All-Rookie Team, as selected by Gruber {'95-'96). Noble was an ors, which will be announced the CCHA head coaches, has honorable mention CCHA on the 13th. representatives from four All-Academic team selection in Noble finished seventh on the schools. 1995-1996. 1996-1997 Irish team with 16 
Joe Dusbabek of Minnetonka, The CCHA named a total of points, including nine goals Minn., a forward from the 48 players to the CCHA (third-most on the team) and a University of Notre Dame, was All-Academic team, with 13 to team-best five powerplay goals. a unanimous selection to this the honorable mention all-aca­The second-year team captain year's all-rookie team and fin­demic team and 28 to the spe­also led the Irish in shooting 22 ished second among rookie for­cial mention all-academic percent, scoring nine times on wards in league scoring with 20 team. Of the 48 total players just 41 shots. His nine goals points on 10 goals and 10 named, Michigan and Bowling included scores in wins over assists. Among his 13 goals Green had nine each while Ohio State, Bowling Green, overall were three powerplay seven Notre Dame players Alaska-Fairbanks and St. Cloud markers, two game-winning received academic mention. State. goals and three first goals. He A finance major in the School Joining Noble on the CCI-IA led all Notre Dame forwards in of Business Administration, All-Academic team are Ferris plus/minus rating with a +2 and Noble carries a 3.98 cumulative State goaltender Jeff Blashill he tied for the team lead in grade point average through and Western Michigan defense­scoring with 2 5 points on 13 his first five semesters at Notre man Jeff Rucinski among oth­goals and 12 assists. Dame, including three consecu­ers. 
Forward Hugo Boisvert of the tive 4.0 semesters. The The CCHA also named 13 Ohio State University led all Academic All-America candi­players to the honorable men­freshman in overall scoring date -who overcame major tion all-academic team while with 38 points and 27 assists, back surgery in the summer of 28 others received special men­and also in league play with 17 1994 -also is a finalist for the tion, including six Notre Dame assists and 23 points. CCHA's Terry Flanagan Award, players: forward Terry Lorenz, 
Receiving honorable mention which recognizes a league play­defenseman Ben Nelsen, for­all-rookie team honors are er who has overcome personal ward Lyle Andrusiak, de­Nathan Borega and Tyson adversity to achieve success on fenseman Benoit Cotnoir, for~ Fraser of Notre Dame. and off the ice. ward Aniket Dhadphale and 
Junior forward Steve Noble of The Flanagan Award will be goaltender Forrest Karr. Sault Ste. Marie, OntarioO is announced on March 13 at the 


BE A PART OF PLANNING YOUR JPW!!! APPLY FOR A POSITION ON THE 
1998 IPW EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE!!! 
L 

DON'! MISS OUI!!!!!!!!!! 
APPLICATIONS AVAILABLE AT THE LAFORTUNE INFO DESK APPLICATIONS ARE DUE IN 315 LAFORTUNE BY SPM MARCH 21 
HOSPITALITY PROGRAM MEMBERS: 
-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·­
THANK YOU for all the hosting that you have done so far this year. Please be aware that there will be a meeting for all of you the week after Spring Break. We need to get the Program prepared for April. 
Wed., March 19, and Thurs., March 20 204 O'Shaughnessy Hall 
7:00PM 
While there are two meetings scheduled, you only need to attend one. These meetings will be brief. Please bring your personal calendar. 
If you have questions or concerns, please call one of us: 
Jennifer Carrier  Colleen Walton  
Admissions Office  Student Coordinator  
1-7505  4-4986  

E.NJOY YOUR BRE.AK!!! 
Thursday, March 6, 1997 

The Observer/Brandon Candura 
Junior Steve Noble earned CCHA All-Academic honors for his perfor­
mances off the ice. 
AJOHN M. DUGGAN SERIES EVENT 
" ... make the most 
gorgeous sound 
you're likely to hear 
fl1l)'UJl'Jere... " -STEREOPIIII.E 
Friday, March 21 
8:00PM 
O'Laughlin Auditorium 
Tickets: $6/SMC-ND faculty and staff; $5/Students 

Thursday, March 6, 1997 
The Observer • SPORTS 
inning, complete game perfor­mance. The righty fanned eight hitters, while allowing only two hits and two walks. 
"I felt real comfortable out there," explained Schmalz. "There was a loose atmosphere out there." 
Schmalz will likely take his 1­1 record out on the mound when the Irish face Southwest Texas State on Friday evening. 
Notre Dame will follow up that contest with a Saturday matchup against Penn State and a three-game series with Texas-Pan Am on Sunday and Monday in a doubleheader. 
Sophomore righthander Brad Lidge (1-0) is expected to get the start on Saturday, followed by senior Gregg Henebry (1-1), and sophomores Chris McKeown (0-0) and Alex Shilliday (0-0) against Texas­Pan Am. 
Lidge, who pitched five strong innings of relief against Mississippi in Long Beach and won his first start despite giving up some runs versus No. 25 Arkansas, credits the defense for the recent improvements. 
"Our defense really picked it up a lot (in Millington)," com­mented Lidge. "They got rid of the first series of jitters (in Long Beach). Defense really helps with (the pitchers') confidence. It allows you to really go after the batters and if they hit it, you know the defense is there" 
Schmalz was also comforted by the infield's recent perfor­mance. 
"It helps knowing that our de­fense is acclimated to the grass," the veteran acknowl­edged. 
After the weekend series, Notre Dame will be back in ac­tion on March 12 when they open the Irish Baseball Classic with a rematch of the week­end's game versus Penn State. Creighton and Northeastern Illinois will challenge the Blue and Gold on the 13th and 14th. 
Finally, on March 15, Notre Dame will play an extra game against N.E. Illinois before tak­ing part in either the consola­tion or championship game of the Irish Classic. The team is very confident that they will be playing in the latter come March 15. 
tmr.a EllllLISH in 1~ • ~" • ' 
~'[' · • -EASFERN 'EU '£ 
PRAGUE • BUDAPEST • KR.'I.KOW 
How would you like to teach basic conve~ational ~nglish in Eastern _Europe? Our matenals .J:!roftle .many rewardmg teaching ?PPOrtu!'lties wtth great benefits. For mformdtvn, call: (206) 971-3680 
Ext 

CHAMBER SINGERS 
Nancy Menk, Conductor 

The Food ofLove 
Contemporary Choral Settings ofShakespeare Friday, March 7, 8 p.m. Moreau Center/O'Laughlin Auditorium Tickets $10* 
This cna:<'rt iJ spon.wr~d b_y a grant from Elizab~th M. Cullity and Junt H. EdMYJrds 
*Discounts for campus community members, senior citiEns, students and groups. Tickets on sale at the Saint Mary's box office, located in 
'Mhltleaupportoi!N

O'Laughlill Auditorium, open 9-5 Monday-Friday. tncNnl AIU Conmuion and 
frrt.tlionall Endowmrenl k3r lht Ani. 

Discover, Visa, MasterCard at 219/284-4626. Treatseats discount coupons available at area Target stores 

-
The Observer/Rob Finch 
Find out how to begin JOUr JOb search 1n Nat1onal Parks, Forests, ann Wildlife 
Preserves. 
Learn from the 111 Source that uncove'l hundreds of employment opportunrties in the great outdoor.;. 
• 
Seasonal & Year-Round 

• 
Excellent R~oc!its 


.I Used, rare and out-of-print books Initial cost of $2.00 Nationally -circulated ad Success rate of 5CfA. Time required: 2 months 
ERASMUS BOOKS 
Open noon to six Tuesday through Sunday 1027 E. Wayne So1.1dl Bend, IN 46617 
(219) 232-8444 

Baseball 
continued from page 20 
.297 batting average at the Service Academies Classic to .387 in Long Beach, while crushing six home runs as opposed to just one the week before. The Irish defense pitch­ing also bounced back. They committed five fewer errors and the pitchers walked five fewer batters per nine innings in the three wins. 
Righthander Darin Schmalz was the perfect example of the difference one week of outdoor workouts can make. 
"We just had to get acclimat­ed to the outside conditions," said the senior hurler. "We had to get in a comfort zone. We knew that we had to turn it up a notch." 
Schmalz lasted just 2 1/3 in­nings on opening day against No. 11 Long Beach State, allow­ing seven runs on seven hits and walking two batters. Last weekend, however, Schmalz victimized a Army squad that was playing in its first contest of the year, shutting out the rusty Black Knights in a seven-

Paul Turco hopes to improve on his solid freshman campaign. 
The University of Notre Dame Department of Music presents 
The Notre Dame SymphonY'_Orchestra ···. 
Pictures at an Exhibition 
Mussorgsky/Ravel 

and featuring the 1997 Concerto Competition Winner 
Miriam Eckelhoefer performing Boccherini Concerto for Cello and Orchestra in Bb 
also on the program Tchaikovsky Marche Slave 
Thursday, March 6 8 pm Washington Hall The concert Is free and oJlA to the public. 
JAZZMAN'S ~. STOMPER 
0C BOB 
PRESENT 

BOBAPALOOZA 
'97 

THURSDAY, MARCH 6 
DOORS OPEN AT 9 PM 
21 and over with proper ID lower level 18 and over with college 10 upper level Jazzman's provides uniformed security guards inside and outside of the club 
-
---~--~­

page-16 The Observer • SPORTS 
-Insight 
continued from page I 
won't be claiming any tourna­ment trophies, either. 
Joining the Big East confer­ence was bound to be an uphill journey. A step-by-step pro­cess. 
The first steps were made during the regular season by the coach, the star and the sup­porting cast. 
The next step came with some recognition from the Big East at the awards banquet Tuesday night. 
But the post-season ... well, as disappointing as it may be to the team and fans, the Irish just have to take it one step at a time. 
The next leg of the journey may come with an NIT bid, giv­ing the squad another chance to compete, to learn and to play the game. What they make of that opportunity could put a very positive cap on an already solid season. 


Then comes another recruit­ing season, made easier by the MVP and Coach of the Year awards. Some talent is swayed to the midwest. 
If MacLeod can couple the star power of Garrity with the system he loves, some more tal­ent and keep the heart and hard work ... 
Well, let's let them concen­trate on the NIT. It's probably a bad idea to look that far ahead. Because for the Irish, the journey is really still just beginning. 
The Observer/Mike Ruma 

BREAK TO REMEMBER... 
PLAY IT SAFE!!! 
Remember you don't have to be "drunk" to be impaired~ impairment begins with the first drink. Be safe with a designated driver. 
Respect other people's rights, and your own, to choose not to drink. Respect state laws and campus policies. 
Wear your seat belt ~ it's your best protection against a drunk driver. 
Stay out of dangerous siwations involving alcohol, whether in a car, a bar, or a bedroom. 
If a friend drinks to the point of passing out, alcohol poisoning is a real danger. If you are concerned, seek medical attention. Better safe than sorry! 

Sponsored by the Office of Alcohol and Drug Education 
David Lalazarian, like his teamates, lacked post-season experience. 
HAVE A SPRING 
The ObseTVer/Mike Ruma 
Gary Bell watched from the bench as the Irish lost to the Orangemen. 
~OBSERVER 
if you are good with people and are looking for valuable business experience, please call Jed Peters at 631-6900. 
** ATTENTION SENIORS** 
STILL INTERESTED IN A SERVICE PROGRAM ?? 
The Archdiocese Of New York Teaching Service Program is still accepting applications for next year. 
If you are interested in teaching in a Catholic high school and would love the chance to live in community in the middle of exciting New York City, call Sr. Deanna Sabetta for an application at (212) 371~1000 Ext. 2803 
The BECKONATOR'S 21! 
Go ahead, card her 

•
•
• 

-----------~--~ -----------------------------~--------~------~ Thursday, March 6, 1997 The Observer· SPORTS page 17 
Before Notre Dame woke up, of a year. We've grown and three." As if Boeheim needed another they trailed 23-6 and would improved. We still have a lot to "It was a tough matchup for basis for comparison, he also
8-ball 
never get closer than 10 points learn, but these kids are willing me," Garrity conceded. noted that his team never al­
continued from page 20 
fore most Irish fans had dimbed out of bed. 
"I don't know why we were flat," Notre Dame forward Pat Garrity said. "I don't know if it was the time of day or the early wake-up. Syracuse didn't seem to be flat, though, so that's no excuse. That was the worst we came out since I don't know when." 
There was no lack of bounce in the Orangemen's step as they jumped out to a 10-0 lead. 
the rest of the game_ Syracuse now advances to play Villanova in the Big East quarterfinals. 
"We were out of character to­day," Big East Coach of the Year John MacLeod said of the Irish. "For some reason, we seemed uptight. We shouldn't have been." ­
After this performance, MacLeod may be less relaxed about an NIT bid for his 14-13 club. 
"Hopefully. there will be an NIT possibility for us," MacLeod said. "If not, we've had a heck to learn." 

Notre Dame can consider this an education in being prepared to play in a big-time tourna­ment. From the opening tip, ugliness ensued. Two turnovers were followed by a shot off the side of the back­board and the always danger­ous air ball. 
While the Irish struggled to find a rhythm, Syracuse was clicking on all cylinders. Hart hit two treys during the early 10-0 run. 
Lithuanian product Marius Janulis, who the Irish also sti­fled earlier in the season, poured in 11 first half points to complement Hart's 16. 
"We got off to a good start," Boeheim said. "We knew they (Notre Dame) were going to double off of Jason (Hart) and he got some open looks early and knocked them down. That was really the difference in the ball game." 
One other difference Boeheim mentioned five or six times was that Syracuse star Todd Burgan wasn't suspended this time around. Having watched his team lose to the Irish twice from the bench, Burgan was also determined to prove the Orangemen were better a third time. 
Burgan made his case scoring 17 points and grabbing 11 re­bounds. The 6-foot-7 forward helped extend the Irish defense, hitting three treys and forcing Garrity to guard him outside the arc. 
"Todd gives us that extra di­mension that we didn't have when we played them in the first two games," Boeheim added. "We're just a different team with Todd, especially when he knocks down the 

To say the Irish experienced a tough matchup on offense would be an understatement. 
Part of their inability to relax stems from the confusion that the Syracuse zone defense caused. Notre Dame could not get the ball to Garrity especially in the first half, in which the 
Big East Player of the Year had only four points and finished with 10 for the game. 
"Their zone bothered us the whole game," MacLeod said. "When you're tentative against a zone, it's not the way to play." 
No one did. Guard Admore White was the only other player in double figures with 12 points_ The lack of scoring punch hindered any type of sig­nificant run. 
"Every time we made a push at them, they came up with a big play," White said. 
Syracuse did make the big plays and also had the scoring. Hill was the fourth Orangeman in double digits with his 15. 
lowed the Irish back in the game with easy baskets. 
"Tonight we didn't give any transition baskets, and that is the difference between the last game and this game," he said. 
"Our biggest problem was not being able to get any transition baskets," Garrity said. "When 
you're struggling offensively. that's the best way to get out of it, to get easy baskets. We never got any easy baskets." 
That made it easy for them to claim what they could not after two Irish blowouts. 
"We're a much better team now than we were at the begin­ning of the year, and I think Notre Dame probably sensed that at the start of the game," Boeheim concluded. 
What do you think Pat? 
"I guess they did show they were the better team today," he said. 
Garrity only wishes Syracuse hadn't made such a strong case when it counted the most. 

The Pan-Afll'ican Cuhull'ali Center anJ the SaHon Je H'Amitie, in coo}j_JleJration with the Afll'ican anJ Afll'ican Amell'ican Studies 
Pll'ogll'&m anJ the De[}&ll'tment of Anthll'o]p>o[ogy 
JP>li'Csent: 

PROFESSOR OLABIYI J. YAI 
PROFESSOR OF YORUBA LANGUAGE AND LITERATURE CHAIR DEPARTMENT OF AFRICAN AND ASIAN LANGUAGES AND LITERATURES UNIVERSITY OF FLORIDA, GAINESVILLE 
YOJRUBA LANGUAGE §lEMliNAJR March 22-27, 1997, 7:00-8:30, Room 203A O'Shaughnessy Hall 
"Survivance et dynamisme des cultures africaines dans les Ameriques" 

-
Saturday, March 22, 1997 at 4:30 in HESBURGH LIBRARY LOUNGE (Presentation in French; Reception follows) 
~'THE YORU BA LANGUAGE AND THE CONSTRUCTION OF AFRICAN IDENTITY IN AFRICA AND THE AMERICAS" Monday, March 24, 1997 
I 2:00PM 802, Charles Martin Youth Center, Lincoln Way West, South Bend 4:30PM: Room 119 O'Shaughnessy Hall, University ofNotre Dame 
66 lFrom VoJlilln to Mawlill: Moruwtheism anJ History in the JFon Clillhmt·al All'ea, West Africa" Fire Side Chats: March 25, 1997, Notre Dame Room, Lafortune Student Center at 12:15PM (Fee Lunch) 
r 

"Nana Versus Ogun: Affirming the Female Voice in Yoruba Oral Literature" 
Wednesday, March 26, at 12: 15PM, Montgomery Theatre, LaFortune Student Center 
A graduate of the Sorbonne, Paris, and University oflbadan, Nigeria, Professor Yai uses in his academic discourse English, Fon, French, Portuguese, Spanish and Yoruba. He has pub­lished in all these languages except in Fon. He is author of many books, including: Elementos para uma promorao das Linguas Nacionais no Morambique (UNESCO, 1983), and Yoruba­English,English-Yoruba Concise Dictionary, New York: Hippocrene Book, 1996, and of scores of chapters and articles. Professor Yai will introduce our Community to the basics ofYoruba speaking. 
All events are open to the public. Registration required for Yoruba Seminar. For more information or to register, please contact Christophe Kougniazonde at (219) 273-1843 or Kougniazonde.1 @nd.edu 
Kellogg Institute, Graduate Srudent Union, Student Government, Mulriculrural Executive Council, St. Mary's College Office of Mulriculrural Affairs, Community Relations, ND Black Alumni. 
-
-~~~~~ --~--------~-----~--· 

page 18 The Observer • SPORTS Thursday, March 6, 1997 
• MEN'S BASKETBAll 

Zone 'D' baffles Irish offense 
By TIM SHERMAN against the Eagle zone defense. Sports Editor Once BC switched to a man-to­man approach, the Irish began 
NEW YORK to roll. 
Early in Saturday's narrow In yesterday's first-round loss loss to Boston College, Notre to Syracuse, the early pattern Dame struggled mightily was the same -turnover, fol-

Admore White's defense was unable to stop Syracuse's prolific scorers. 
lowed by forced shot, followed by yet another turnover. 
But there was a difference. Syracuse was wise enough to stick with the zone. Consequently, the Irish were never were able to get going. 
"Their zone bothered us the whole game," said Irish coach John MacLeod. "We were ten­tative, and we were dribbling instead of passing and moving
it. .. What was most surprising about Notre Dame's struggles at the offensive end was the fact that they had seen the Syracuse zone before. Furthermore, Jim Boeheim's Orangemen really didn't make major adjustments from their previous two losses to Notre Dame. "We played basically the same defense," said Boeheim. "We adjusted a little bit, but we just did a better job covering their guards. We covered the three-point shooter and forced them to take something they didn't want." Not only did the Orangemen limit the Irish to 26 percent three-point shooting (6-23), they were successful at some­thing very few teams have been -shutting down Pat Garrity. In his first game as Big East Player of the Year, the junior was held to 3 of 11 shooting, all the while being frustrated by the physical 'Cuse zone. "When he went through the 



zone, they bumped him," MacLeod said. "We had to keep moving him, and they checked him." 
Notre Dame did little to allevi­ate the pressure on Garrity. 
"We had our zone offense," said point guard Admore White. "We just didn't execute it. They came out and put good pres­sure on us. They were ag­gressive." 
Notre Dame wasn't. 
Right from the outset, the Irish were very tight and hesi­tant. 
"I don't know why, but we were tight," said White. "We came out shaky, and they came out stronger." 
The affects of an early 23-6 deficit lingered, as Notre Dame was never able to establish what they wanted. 
"They took away the baseline and the high post," said for­ward David Lalazarian, who chipped in eight points. "We just passed the ball around the perimeter. We maybe should have penetrated more." 
Syracuse never allowed it, even when the Irish did try the dribble drive. 
"They know what we can do," said freshman Lalazarian. "They came out on our shooters and backed off on our drivers. They just came out more fired up." 
In addition to the intensity, the zone itself took away a lot of what MacLeod likes to do, particularly the motion offense. 
"When I was catching it, I was six feet behind the three­point line," said Garrity. "It is tough (the zone) for a person like me who relies a lot on mov­ing and coming off screens. When I have to just stand still, it just makes it tough." 
And when Garrity is at a stand-still, it just makes it tough to win. 


Junior Derek Manner and the Irish fell to a focused Syracuse squad. 
page 19

Thursday, March 6, 1997 The Observer • TODAY 
MIXED MEDIA 
RATBERT THE CONSULTt>..~T 
! At'\ Ut-\DER YOUR 
CON5ULT!NG 
SPELL. 
REALL't?

\ 

CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 26Germ 
30 Gentleman's Carlo Menotti 
1 Composer-­
evening clothes 

35 Topper 9 "Goodbye, Mr. 36 Car bar Chips" star, 37 Agreeable word 1939 
5 So-and-sos 
38 Enthralled 14 Liking 
39 Writer Hecht 

15 Semicircular 40 Maugham satire 
room 44 Ignorant (of)
16 Balearic resort isle 46 Revivalist, informally
17 Flop 18--tothe 
47 Brian of rock 

throne 48 Person with 19 Locker art hives 20 Basic 53 1953 plar. or 23 Fish of which 
consolation for the male carries a meatless the fertilized 
meal? eggs 56 Kind of board 24 Cocktail 57 Where Ron ingredient Howard was 25--toot born: Abbr 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

MIKE PETERS 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY! IN THE NEXT YEAR OF YOUR LIFE: Sensational news will makes the hassles of the past few months worthwhile. Be more considerate of your friends and relatives and they will respond in kind. Power can be gained through a colleague who pro­vides you with a terrific job lead. Next fall will bring a raise or won­t.lcrful financial luck. Enter contest~ in October. Something you now think impossible will come to pass. Let offsprin,g know you care about the activities that are important to them. 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: basketball star Shaquille O'Neal, director Rob Reiner, conductor Sarah Caldwell, roet Elizabeth Barrett Browning. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Your current surroundings may not lit your new lifestyle. Become your own decorator. Collecting paint samples and fabric swatches will help you decide what will look best. 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Creative endeavors enjoy highly favorable influences this month. Your loved ones will be supportive 1f you decide to accept a job offer. Socializing after work could lead to valuable new contacts. 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): An excellent trend is developing where your career is concerned. Mingle with the big shots while your charisma is at an all-time high! Co-workers are amazed by your ingenuity. 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): 
Everything seems to go right today. Springing a happy surprise on a

I A.l"\ AFRAID TO 1\CT 
friend or loved one works out great. Be receptive to imaginative enter­tainment suggestions. 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Your creative talents receive new atten­tion from higher-ups. Do not be 



g 
0 

:0 0 '<OUR OVE.RLY COf'\PLICATE.D 
...J 

fv\ATR.ICE.S AND DII\GR~MS 
"' 0 ® 

HAVE. CONVINCE.D ME OF
"' 

:0 c YOUR INTELLECTUAL
"' 
...
"' 

0 ... SUPE.RIORITY. "' 0 \ 
·~ 
w 


58 Betty of cartoons 59 Printing mark soLaugh-­61 Like some tennis games 
62 Walter Trampler's instrument 
63 Elizabeth ll's only daughter 64 Made do 
DOWN 

1 The Bee Gees 2 Harden 3 Confused 4 "Forget it!" 5 Extremely arid 6 Broaches, in a 
way 7 Backing vocal? 8 Author Iva 
Andric, for one 9 Hinged pair of pictures 10--dictum 


11 Emergency CB channel 12 France's Cote d'-­
13 Designate 
21 Spanish lady's title 22 "Trinity" author 26 Failure 
27"Eugene Onegin" sister 28 Junior high subj 29 Touchiness 30 Elephant Boy of 30's film 31 Team members 

32 Arm part 49 Traffic cone 53 Cuisine choice 
33 DirectorW. S. 50 "--a trip on a 54 A Saarinen Van-­
train ..." 
55--Maar 

34 Charge (Benny (Picasso
38 Darling Goodman lyric) subject) 
40 Popular game 51 Leave, with "off" 56 Year in from Uruguay 
52 Pounded the Septimius41 Schoenberg's Underwood Severus's reign"Moses und 
42 Pep up  Answers to any three clues in this puzzle  
43 One of the tides  are available by touch-tone phone:  
45 Toad Hall  1-900-420-5656 (75¢ per minute).  
vandal  Annual subscriptions are available for the  

48 Show politeness best of Sunday crosswords from the last at the door 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. · 
The Observer 
and mail to: 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompany­ing form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
JACK OHMAN YOUR HOROSCOPE JEANE DIXON 
Make checks payable to: 
D Enclosed is $70 for one academic year D Enclosed is $40 for one semester 
afraid to ask for a fair salary: lew people have your special combina­tion of skills. 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Emotional upsets can create rhysi­cal· problems. If you must choose between a new love and your health, opt for the latter. A budget rcvi~ion will help you save money for a much-desired luxury item. 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Kccr your business and financial plans under wraps. Today's positive devel­opments will bring you anu your loved ones good cheer. Use finesse to get what you want from a difticult individual. 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21 ): Your relations with a business asso­ciate improve. An artistic or creative project begins to show a profit. Do : everything possible to win the back­ing of someone influential. 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 
21 ): Co-workers may not appreciate 
your flippant remarks. Tempering 
your sharp wit will let you establish 
better rapper! with those around 
you. A parent-child relationship 
blossoms when you are attentive. 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 
19): A friendship may be on shaky 
ground now. A Jack of candor could 
be part of the problem. Pursuing a 
favorite hobby will help alleviate 
everyday stress. 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): 
A sudden desire to upgrade your 
home or switch jobs could prove 
costly. Proceed with caution lest you 
cndungcr your long-term financial 
security. Romance has its ups and 
downs. 
PISCES (feb. 19-March 20): 
Focus on accounts due, bank state­
ments and credit matters this morn­
ing. It may be best to consolidate 
your debts and work out a monthly 
payment plan. 

Name __________________________________________ Address ______________________________________ City------------State ____ Zip________ 
-
... 

SPORTS 
page 20 Thursday, March 6, 1997 
• MEN'S BASKETBAll 
Irish ousted from Big East tourney by Orangemen 

By JOE VILLINSKI 
Associate Sports Editor 
NEW YORK 

When press conference time rolled around yesterday, Syracuse wasn't about to let this opportunity get away. 
An opportunity to tell the world -the Big East world in this case -how they stack up against Notre Dame, who they demolished in the Big East tournament opener, 84-66. 
In the bowels of Madison Square Garden, head coach Jim Boeheim, power forward Otis Hill and point guard Jason Hart were lined up like a firing squad, assuring the public two earlier losses to the Irish did not matter as much as this win. 
"It wasn't really a pay back game," said Hart, who scored a career-high 24 points. "It was just to let them know that we were a better team." 
Hill then broke his silence at the post-game gathering to say, "We wanted to show we were the better team." Boeheim, on who the history of this meeting was not lost, sparked the running sentiment. 
"This team beat us badly twice, so this was a very good win for us," he added. "I think the players saw this as a chal­lenge to prove they were better than the first two games we played Notre Dame." 
Start spreading the news: those first two games bore no resemblance to yesterday's af­fairs. Notre Dame's average margin of victory versus the Orangemen was 16. Before ten minutes elapsed in the Garden, the Irish were down by 12. 
Hart, who managed a total of nine points in the previous two meetings, had amassed that be-
see B-BALL I page I 7 

• BASEBALL 
Team looks to cross .500 mark 
-
By BRIAN REINTHALER 
Sports Writer 
' 

On Friday, the majority of Notre Dame's campus heads south and the baseball team is no exception as they attempt to get north of the .500 mark for the first time this season. 
Indeed, the 3-3 Irish have quite a busy spring break schedule to keep. They will play 10 games in nine days, all just north of the border in San Antonio, Tex. 
Notre Dame will look for a continuation of the tnmd that began last week in Millington, Tenn.. as the squad showed vast improvement from an 0-3 opening weekend at the Long Beach Classic. 
The team jumped from a 

Head coach Paul Mainieri looks to improve on last year's success. see BASEBALL I page 15 
• IRISH INSIGHT 
Lack of tourney experience derails rolling Irish 
I
t seems. to be a. step. -by-step process. Notre . Dame entered conference play last year as a veritable babe in the woods, and, as was expected, got spanked. In the Big East tour~ nament •• they fell to Syracuse 76-55. 
This sea­son, they vowed, would be different. 
Lo and behold, they were right 
Despite an acknowl13dged lack of talent, the Irish made up for their shortcoming with heart and hard work. They fought their way to a record above .500 beat a handful of teams that pounded them last year and finished 8-10 in Big East play, doubling last year's tally in the win column. 
Along the way, Pat Garrity proved his worth to both Notre Dame fans and the Big Ea:st coaches, claiming the Big East Player of the Year trophy despite playing for a team with a losing conference record. 

Yes, things were different. indeed. 
Until tournament time. 
A lack of tournament experi­ence reared its ugly head against Syracuse, a team sea­soned in post-season play, re­sulting in a collapse from start to finish. This time, the Orangemen took it by an 84­66 margin. 
Garrity, who never seemed to get the ball when and where he wanted it, struggled offensively, spelling doom. Alas, a post-season MVP, he was not. 
MacLeod's system, so suc­cessful in the regular season, didn't hold up against the zone defense. MacLeod and his squad never made the adjust­ments, allowing themselves to get buried early and stay there, at least 10 points behind, all day. MacLeod 
see INSIGHT/ page 16 


The Observer/Bret Hogan Syracuse found the answer for Big East Player of the Year Pat Garrity, limiting the star forward to just 10 points on 3 of 11 shooting . 
., 
• 
Softball at Oaklahoma Q)
Men's Lacrosse at Delaware 
•Hockey players receive awards 
Tournament,

March 11, 3 p.m. 
March 7-9 
see page 14
••'-= 
•Irish softball 'on the road again'

Basebal vs. SW Texas at 
Women's Tennis vs. Michigan, ~ 
San Antonio, 
Tomorrow, 7:30p.m. see page 12 
Tomorrow, 3 p.m. 
• ~ 






