
Tuesday, November 4, 1997 • Vol. XXXI No. 46 THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
• CAMPUS llfE COUNCIL 
CLC disappointed by Observer comic, apology 
By MICHELLE KRUPA senator Matt Szabo displayed a tinue to affirm that apology. No 
Associate News Editor copy of the flier posted around one regrets this incident more campus by numerous campus than we do," Prendergast said. 
The Campus Life Council groups headed by the Office of "And our apology would not be made a resolution last night Multicultural Student Affairs. complete if it didn't contain an objecting to The Observer's The flier pictured the Virgin explanation. People have the decision to print the "Men Mary crying on top of the gold­right to know why things hap­About Campus" comic strip last en dome and read, "We are not pened the way they did. That's Friday on the grounds that it aliens. We are ND." why we wrote it the way we discriminated against Notre ''I'm very displeased with the did." Dame students. apology," Szabo said of The Cavanaugh senator Lauren 
"The CLC deplores The Observer's response to yester­Herring made reference to the Observer's publication of the day's issue. "I felt it was as recent "Spirit of Inclusion" let­comic strip ... and is disappoint­much an apology as a justifica­ter in relating the discrimina­ed with The Observer's apology tion. There wasn't even a sus­tion issue to a larger problem of in response to the comic on pension [of the artist]. I found poor race relations on campus. Monday, Nov. 3, 1997," accord­this outrageous." "We need to realize that we ing to secretary Mark Higgins' Brad Prendergast, editor-in­need to be held to a higher stan­recitation of the motion made chief of The Observer, said the dard about people -and their by Father David Scheidler, rec­apology was not a justification, beliefs. A lot of people fall into tor of St. Edward's Hall. but rather an explanation of the trap where they do it [make 
The resolution came after why the incident occurred. offensive comments], but they much discussion of the issue, "First and foremost, the state­
see CLC I page 4
which began after Morrissey ment is an apology, and we con-

Would you like coffee with that? 
' TJ fe put sexuality and race in YY front of being human, and that it just wrong. ' 
Karen Murphy Saint Mary's student 

Sexuality issues at forefront of Saint Mary's open forum 
By ALLISON KOENIG lot of issues on campus are not phobia relat­~aill! rvl.lrv's New' Editor ed ... rather it is people finding in their hard and COLLEEN MCCARTHY core beliflfs that homosexuality is wrong." ;\J~..·w\ \X'rirer Notre Dame graduate Shelley Stf'fan raised 
the issue of fear as a possibln reason for Tlw Saint Mary's Student AcadPmic homophobia. "Sexuality in general is a scary 
· Counril sponson~d a forum last night to dis­thing," she said. russ issues of sf'xuality and the Saint Mary's "I don't think people should be afraid of woman. Along with a genPral discussion of their fear but they should recognize it," tlw issuPs was a dnliheration over how the Stefan added. Collt•ge as a whoiP rould approach and offer Senior Eileen Nieli pointed out that many support in tlwsP arPas in the future. students may n1wer have flxperilmced living 
SAC n~presentative Kelly Righton began in a community with people of di11'errnt snxu­
tlw forum with a prayer and was followed by al orientations until arriving in a college studPnt govf'rnnwnt vicfl presidflnt Lori environment. Nieli stated that it is partirular­MeKeough who laid the groundwork for how ly scary for freshman who have never been tlw forum would run. exposed to these issues. 
McKeough infornwd thosl' pn~sent that the "Just because people aren't exposrd to forum would be an open disrussion with the [homosexuality] doesn't mean that the Pxpo­students and that the faculty present should sure should stop," senior Poogie Sherer said. not bP askrd questions directly. "Thflre need to be more outlets for uncom­
Shr. tlwn opr.ned the floor to participants to fortable people to go to." initial!' thr discussion. The lirst to address Also acknowlr.dging the issue of fear was tlw idr.a of homophobia on the Saint Mary's senior Kelly Harrison. campus was Nikki Milos, studt"nt body presi­"I think fear of the unknown is a problem." 
dPnt who questioned whether thn concept she said. "This sort of thing, the forum, is was a myth or a rPality at SMC. .Junior i\driennfl Sharp responded that, "A see SEX I page 4 



COBA program stresses ethical business behavior 
By MALIN STEARNS leaders to campus to teach News Writer business ethics and prr.sent guest lectures. Participating 
This fall, Notre Dame stu­executives also assist with dents looking to learn more conferences and publications about r.thics in business are of the Center for Ethics and getting a unique perspective Religious Values in Business. through the Executive-in­Father Oliver Williams, Hflsidence Program of the director of the Center for College of Business Ethics and Religious Values in Administration. Business, believes that the 
Tlw program, established program benefits both partic­last year by the Center for ipating studflnts and execu­Ethics and Heligious Values in tives. 
Business, brings business "The executives lind it stim­

'The program 
puts business students in close contact with execu­tives who embody the ethical dimen­sions of business.' 
Father Oliver Williams professor ofmanagement 
ulating to meet the business students in close contact with students," Williams said. "A executives who embody the recent participant, David ethical dimension of busi­Collins, former vice-chair of ness," Williams said. "It Johnson and Johnson teaches students that you can Pharmeceuticals, stayed with be successful and still be ethi­the program for over three cal." months last year. The execu­This semester, four execu­
tives are extremely popular tives are participating in the with the students." program. Each participates in 
Williams stresses the impor­a 1. 5 credit course for MBA tance of the program to a students and qualified under­Notre Dame business educa­graduates, as well as pre­tion. senting guest lectures in 
"The program puts business other courses. 

--------------------------------------------------------------~---------------~
-

Tuesday, November 4, 1997
page 2 The Observer • INSIDE 
• iNSIDE COlUMN 


Out of Titne 
At some point during -------­
my sojourn at Notre Laura Petelle 
Dame, my time as a stu-News Copy Editor 
dent became completely 
expendable. 
This really makes me wonder. I'm a busy 
person. I play in a couple of musical groups, 
work for The Observer and the yearbook, do 
some dorm activities, carry a full class load, 
and somewhere in there I try to occasionally 
eat and sleep and see my friends. 
I'm so busy that I often make it from 
Monday through Thursday without actually 
seeing my roommate except when she's 
asleep (she's not much fun to talk to then). 
It's not like I have a lot of free time. 
But I recently had the harrowing experi­
ence that so many sophomores go through: 
declaring my major. 
I went to the Arts and Letters office and 
collected the paperwork. The nice lady 
explained to me which signatures I had to 
get, and I went merrily on my way. 
When I got home, I called the office of the 
undergraduate advisor for the departments 
in question, thinking I could make a brief 
appointment, and was told that they didn't 
"do" appointments; I would have to come in 
during office hours. 
The theology department was actually 
quite pleasant to deal with; it took only 
about 15· minutes to track down the under­
graduate advisor, have the requirements 
explained to me, and get the necessary sig­
nature. 
But my other department, which we'll call 
the Department of Jibberology, was far from 
helpful. 
I went to the Jibberology office right at the 
beginning of the office hours, only to be 
greeted by a line. It moved along pretty 
quickly, until it got to the woman in front of 
me, who proceeded to talk to the advisor for 
45 minutes. All of us waiting for signatures 
were understandably peeved. Before she 
was finished, I had to leave to go to class. 
This scenario repeated itself twice more at 
the Department of Jibberology, with profes­
sors and students taking up the time of the 
undergraduate advisor while all I wanted 
was a 30-second signature. 
So I again asked the secretary at the 
Department of Jibberology if I could make 
an appointment. 
"No," she said. "We don't do that." 
On my fourth try at the Department of 
Jibberology, after a 40-minute wait, I was 
able to see the advisor for all of five minutes 
and get my signature. I spent the better part 
of a week in the Jibberology oflice, doing my 
Core reading, waiting for a signature. 
As I complained about this to several of 
my friends, I discovered that my problem 
was in no way unique. Almost all of my 
friends had discovered, when trying to col­
lect quick signatures or talk to an advisor, 
that the walk-in office hours meant that it 
took several tries to get in to see the advi­
sor. 
Don't get me wrong: walk-in office hours 
are a great idea for people trying to collect a 
quick signature. The problem arises when 
students with actual advising questions are 
also required to go during office hours 
instead of making an appointment, and then 
spend 45 minutes talking to the advisor. 
As students, we have hectic class and 
extracurricular schedules; our time is valu­
able. 
As professors, I would think they. would 
understand that. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are lhose of lhe author and not necessarily those of The Obserl'er. 
• TooAv's STAFF  
News  Graphics  
Sarah Hansen  Pete Cilella  
Heather MacKenzie  Production  
Sports  Susie Sohn  
Kathleen Lopez  Heather Mackenzie  
Viewpoint  Mark DeBoy  
Dan McDonough  Lab Tech  
Accent  Sam Assaf  
Andrea Jordan  

The Ohserver (USPS 599 2-4000) is puhli,hed Monday rhrough Friday except during exam and V<Kation periods. The Observer is a m~mber of rhe As"iociareJ Pre~s. All reproduction rights are reserved. 

c---.~~)Outside the Dome 
·---·-. , .r--"-·'-"\\ Compiled from U-Wire Reports 
'.,{ ...... 

Jiang visits Harvard, speaks about Chinese progress 
CAMBRIDGE, Mass. 

When Chinese President Jiang Zemin delivered his long-awaited speech in Sanders Theatre Saturday morning, he used the occasion to remind his American audience that China has achieved much during its 5,000-year history. 
For nearly 30 minutes, Jiang out­lined his country's scientific, cultur­al and economic advances and called for a stronger partnership between China and the United States. It was only during the brief question-and-answer session that followed his address that Jiang admitted that the policies of the People's Republic may leave some room for improvement. 
"The people are very satisfied with the reforms we have scored under the reform and opening-up program of China," Jiang said through a translator, in response to a question submitted by the coalition protesting 

"The policy of the government is to serve the people, and therefore we have to reflect the people's requests and do everything that will meet the people's requests," Jiang said. "It goes without saying that, naturally, we may have shortcomings and even make mistakes in our work. However, we have been working on 
• DARTMOUTH COLLEGE 
Ex-admissions officer spills the beans 
HANOVER, N.H. 
'Any college-bound high school senior can attest to the fact that college applications are an exhausting process. From scoring high on the SATs to carefully crafting application essays, thousands of applicants each year wonder what more they can do to guarantee that covet­ed acceptance letter from the college or university of their choice. Now a controversial new book written by a former College admissions officer claims to provide many of the answers. The book -written by former Assistant Director of Admissions Michele Hernandez '89 -is titled "A is for Admission: The Insider's Guide to Getting into the Ivy League and Other Top Colleges," and is different from other volumes that coach applicants on college admission in that it claims to reveal the "most guarded secrets" of the Ivy League admissions process. "A is for Admission" takes the reader step-by-step through admissions procedures -even detailing the thoughts of admissions officers during each step. 
• DuKE UflmtfRS!TY Professors wary of plagiarism from web 
DURHAM, N.C. 
"Welcome to the Largest Catalog of Expertly-Researched 
Model Term Papers-All Written after 1995!!! .... All font 
Sizes are 12pt.! All margins are one inch! All Line spacing is 
2.0.... No Days of Waiting! Just Thousands and Thousands of Model Term Papers!" Apparently, plagiarism is no longer predominantly associated with Cliffs' notes. This message appears on a web site advertising term papers available to students who are willing to pay from five to 35 dollars per page-and it only takes the click of a mouse. But although the ethical issues involved with students plagiarizing Internet term papers have become a nationwide concern, faculty members and administrators say that students at Duke seem to have resisted the temptation. Neverthelflss, many administrators and faculty members are keeping their guard. More than seventy on-line sites give a student access to written term-papers in minutes, compl-ete with citations and bibliographies. 
• SOUTH BEND \fVEATHER • 
a constant basis to further improve our work." 
Jiang reiterated his country's need to change when responding to a question posed by Carroll Bogert, a journalist with Newsweek magazine who asked the only question Jiang fielded directly from the audience. Bogert asked the president if he has learned anything about democracy during his state visit to the United States and from the mass protests that seem to have accompanied him on every leg of his journey. 
"During my current trip to the United States, starting from Hawaii, I got a more specific understanding of the American democracy, more specific than I learned from books," Jiang said, addressing the audience of University faculty and administra­tors, foreign and national press and a few hundred undergraduates and graduates. 
But Jiang said it was difficult to 
• INmANA Uw!VERS!TY 
U. Indiana expels ZBT indefinitely 
BLOOMINGTON, Ind. 
Dean of Students Hichard McKaig announced the indefi­nite expulsion of the U. Indiana chapter of Zeta Beta Tau during a press conference Wednesday afternoon in the Indiana Memorial Union. In addition, the fraternity's nation­al headquarters has suspended the chapter. As part of its expulsion, identifying signs will be removed from the ZBT house, and the chapter's participation in campus activities and its access to benefits given to such organizations will end. Members will continue to live at the house under cur­rent contracts. "Expulsion means ZBT immediately ceases to function as a student organization," McKaig said. McKaig said the charges brought against ZBT stemmed from an Oct. 15 hazing incident, during which pledge members were sent on a scavenger hunt with instructions to steal a street sign. The hunt list also included several racially and sexually offensive items. The Fraternity and Sorority Judicial Board found the list to be in violation of the Code of Disciplinary Procedures for Student Organizations. 
• GEORGETOWN UN!VERS!TY 
'Saferides' driver drinking on duty 
WASHINGTON, D.C. 
A driver in the Saferides service, set up to assure safe 
transportation for students at night, failed a drunk driving 
test administered by officers from the Department of Public 
Safety during his shift on Oct. 18. Erik Schaffer had dropped 
his partner, Duncan McCourt , at Hoya's Sports Bar and was 
driving alone, in violation of Saferides policy, when DPS otli­
cers pulled him over at the corner of 37th Street and 
Heservoir Hoad for not answering radio calls, DPS officers 
said. SchalTer and McCourt were both removed from their 
shifts and fired by DPS the day after the incident for "dere­
liction of duty," according to Mike Posillico, student guard 
coordinator for DPS. At the time he was pulled over, 
Schaffer "had excited speech, the smell of alcohol on his per­
son, a very flush face and pupil dilation associated with alco­
hol impairment," Posillico said. Despite suspicions by DPS 
ollicers that Schaffer had been drinking, he was not turned 
over to D.C. Metropolitan Police. 
5 Day South Bend Forecast A1.:cu\Vea\hcr~:K" forecaM for daylimc condi\ions and high tempcmturc~  
H L Tuesday ~ 42 32 Wednesday~ so 38 Thursday ~ 47 38 Friday ~ 45 35 Saturday ~ 40 26  
9,9,~888~ ~ u Showers T-storms Rain Flurries Snow Ice Sunny Pl. Cloudy Cloudy  
VIa Associated Press GraphicsNet  


Atlanta  55  39  Helena  54  37  New York  59  49  
Baltimore 52  44  Honolulu  85  69  Pittsburgh  42  33  
Boston  57  49  Indianapolis 40  32  San Francisco 69  53  
Chicago  41  32  Memphis  60  36  Seattle  60  48  
Dallas  79  48  New Orleans 70  47  Tulsa  69  53  

Tucsda~·. t\lovember 4, 1997 The Observer· CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Doctor seeks cure for distress 
By LOUBEL CRUZ 

News Writer 

Notre Dame alumnus Dr. Lynn Hankes explored distress in the medical profession at the fifth annual Emil Hofman lecture Saturday morning. 
Hankes included comments on chemical and drug depen­dency, medical and stress­related disorders, as weH as dealing with and confronting the disruptive physician. 
The lecture examined the strain and pressure that physi­cians eneounter and the severe consequences they face if these stresses arc not dealt with cor­reetly. 
"The leeture has to do with the difference between a human being and a human doing," Hankes said. 
Hankes discussed the reason people go into medicine, ask­ing: "\Vhy do we subject our­selves to the academie pres­sun~ and all the delayed grati­lieation?" 
The answer is that most physieians had a lack of nur­turing in their past and are obsessive-eompulsives and perfectionists, aceording to Hankes. When asked, physi­cians say their ideal doctor would be very responsible, guill prone, emotionally distant and also a perfectionist. 
Hankes believes that the stress begins in academics with the intense competition that comes with medical school. For example, more than 50,000 applications were sent in for 16,000 spots in the country's medical schools. 
In post-graduate years, the stress compounds when the new physician enters a seem­ingly hostile environment, aecording to Hankes. He added that a crucial starting point is when self-medieation of drugs is possible. 
Because of this intensive 

stress, many doctors fall into what Hankes labels "physician impairment," which ineludes depression, developmental deficits and chemical depen­dency. These symptoms lead to mental illness or to an addic­tion to drugs or alcohol. 
"These characteristics are important in the identification of people who are impaired," said Hankes. 
He hopes that this distress will diminish if the physicians themselves admit it exists. 
"Physicians have resistance factors that prevent them from solving the problem, including the inability to ask for help and a tendency to self-diagnose their illness," Hankes said. 
A monitoring system is now in effect in some hospitals and institutions with random toxi­cology tests and work-site investigation to eontrol some of the problems. 
"It is necessary to impleme~t safeguards to protect the pub­lic," Hankes stated. 
Hankes' suggested treatment for the "fragile physician" is a tri-dimensional process with detoxification, medical treat­ment and family therapy. 
Hankes earned his bache­lor's degrees in pre-profession­al studies and science at Notre Dame in 1958 and 1959 and graduated from Georgetown University School of Medicine in 1964. He is currently the director of the Washington Physicians Health Program and a clinical associate profes­sor at the University of Washington in Seattle. 
The leeture, entitled "The Fragile Physician: If You Are What You Do, and You Don't, You Aren't," was in memory of Dr. Dennis Cantwell, a 1961 Notre Dame graduate, and Joseph Campbell, professor of child psychiatry at the University of California, who was scheduled to be this year's Hofman lecturer until he passed away after a massive heart attack last April. 
The Emil Hofman Lecture series is a medical education program sponsored by the St. Joseph's Medical Center in conjunction with the Notre Dame Alumni Association. 


How can I use intuition in accounting? What is an income statement? 

With 


Professor Ram Ramanan 
Assistant Chair ofAccounting 
-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-
TuESDAY, NovEMBER 4 
7:00 P.M. 121 COBA 


BRING ALL YOUR QUESTIONS! 
g)<eJe/bted(y ofe ./Yove !?l!cune ~a/Wi/o-n %/;na/io-/la/.!lJa("J~/wM 


Honpr society .chOoses Crosson as pfesident 
By FINN PRESSLY Cavanaugh Professor of 
News Writer Humanities. In 1997, the University 
The nation's premier acad• awarded him the Sheedy ernie honor society, Phi Beta Award for excellence in Kappa, recently elected teaching. Frederick Crosson to a three-In addition, Crosson is a fel­year term low of the Knights of as the soci-Columbus. the French e t y ' s Government, the Belgian nation a I American Foundation, and president. the Institute of 
The deci-Interdisciplinary Studies. sion to elect During his 15-year involve-Crosson, a ment with Phi Beta Kappa, professor in Crosson has continued to
Crosson
N o t r e earn the respect of his col-D a m e ' s leagues throughout the sod-Program of Liberal Studies. ety. was reached in late "This election confirms the September, during the soci-deep personal and profes­ety's triennial meeting. sional admiration for Dr. 
As president, Crosson's duty Crosson much in evidence is to oversee the hundreds of among both chapter and chapters of Phi Beta Kappa, alumni association delegates 225 of whieh are located at to the council," said Phi Beta the nation's most prestigious Kappa executive secretary universities. In addition. Douglas Foard. Grosson is responsible for Phi Beta Kappa was found­running the yonventions of ed in 1776 at the College of the society. William and Mary, as a 
"We have two semi-annual means of bringing recognition meetings of the senate, which to scholars of the liberal arts. is the governing body for the Kit's intended to promote three years," Crosson said, and recognize excellence in summing up a few of his liberal education," said responsibilities. "I have to Crosson. "I think the most chair and convene the meet-important aspect of Phi Beta ings, compose agendas, and Kappa is that it draws stu­supervise a number of sub-dents' attention to the impor­committees." & tance of the liberal arts." 

Crosson grad~ated from the Today, more than 200 years .Catholiq University of aftE~.r its inception, Phi Beta r·!·Amerf~a "Yith a bachelor's., Kappa and its symbol. the and master:,$ degree, and' gplden key, are still syno[ly­. eq~ived'a dqctorjlte tn•.. mous with academic achieve­hyfrom Notre Dame. •P ment. Every year, the society 
He joined the Notre Darne ·· donates more than one mil­;·faculty in 1953, and sinc.e lion'dollaf"s to sponsor lec­;;,,then;·he served as dean ofthe~A..tures and scholarship funds. ~rCollege of Arts Letters from?]f Crosson will retire from 
1968-1975; held the O'Hara ''Notre Dame at the end of this chair in philosophy from -Yacademic year. · 1976-1984, and is the eurrelll 

F News Happens. 1 if y(())lJJl see i t9 call the News Department at 1-53230 




Glass ·ea 
food nightnon·perish.ablefood item or$1Tomorrow followed by 

TSUK 


page 4 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS Tuesday, November 4, 1997 
CLC 
continued from page 4 
don't really mean to be offen­sive," Herring said. 
The decision on the unani­mously-supported resolution came after discussion about CLC coverage in The Observer. 
"There is a gross misrepre­sentation of CLC in campus media,". Keough senator A.J. Boyd said. 
Scheidler said CLC's credibili­ty often rests in how The Observer handles its coverage. 
According to Scheidler, "We don't have any credibility. Here they [The Observer] have a monopoly, and here we end up being at their mercy." 
The issue arose after a hand­ful of members objected to The Observer's coverage of a CLC response regarding the "Spirit of Inclusion." 
The members said that the coverage in question -which dealt with CLC's Sept. 29 response to vice president of Student Affairs Patricia O'Hara's reply to the organiza­tion's resolution on the "Spirit of Inclusion" -overplayed council members' disapproval of O'Hara's reply. 
Prendergast supports the newspaper's coverage of all such meetings. 
"The Observer stands by its accounts of all CLC meetings," he said. · 
After this discussion, each committee presented its agenda for the year. Assistant vice president for Residence Life Bill Kirk mentioned numerous let­ters he has received recently regarding the "uncourteous and unsportsmanlike behavior of Notre Dame students" at foot­ball games. 
He noted specifically the chant, "sucks," that students yell after the names of the starters on the opposing team have been announced. The announcement has been stopped for the last two games because of this response. 
Student body vice president Erek Nass· made possible sug­gestions to eliminate the nega­tive cheering. 
"I think if it [a call to end the cheering] comes from other stu­dents, it will get changed," he said. 
Dillon senator Patrick Coyle recalled the "classy" attitude of Fighting Irish fans in past years. 
"Our class used to make me so proud. ·During the Holtz era, we had so much class. If some­one all the students respected brought it up, it might get changed," he said, 
Student body president Matt Griffin said he would take the issue to the pep rally committee and head football coach Bob Davie, asking him to write a let­ter to the editor to The Observer calling for more sportsmanlike conduct at foot­ball games and suggested run­ning an advertisement reprint­ing the letter. 
In other business, the council discussed the Student Senate's resolution to help get laundry facilities installed in the six men's dorms still without them. 
"Student Senators of dorms currently without facilities have been talking to Facilities Operations. Our statement would be that we are simply in support of laundry facilities. The resolution was sent here because it's really a housing issue," Szabo said, suggesting that the issue be referred to the community life committee, which will present a recommen­dation at the next meeting. 
Sex 
continued from page 4 
not always encouraged and if we refuse to confront these issues of sexuality then the fpar becomes worse." 
The issue of indifference regarding homosexuality in the Saint Mary's community was also raised by participants. 
"What I see more of on this campus is not gay bashing but rather the attitude of indilTer­ence," Anne Schneeman stated. "People are afraid of exploring and talking about it and forming an educated opinion." 
Shirsten Truitt addressed another fear experienced by those who oppose homosexuali­ty. "There is a fear of being labeled 'close minded, conserva­tive, or religious,"' slw said. 
"People don't want to discuss it because they don't want to be labeled," Truitt emphasized. 
Sophomore Kelly Curtis addressed the actual impact of indifference to the issue or homosexuality. "I think that the feeling of indifference lrads to a feeling of invisibility," she said. "It feels like the gifts you bring to the community [arc ignored]." 
Truitt suggnsted that the feel­ing of invisibility, brought about by others' indifference to their sexual preference, should not be allowed to dominate a person's life because it is only a single aspect of one's life. 
Harrison stated that her sexu­ality has been forced to be her primary aspnct of identification, ' that it is not simply one aspeet or" her life. "It has to be a big issue 1 in my life because I am in a eom­munity where everyonP. is telling , me that part of me is wrong," i she said. I 
"It has to become important to I me. retaining that part of my 1 
L 
identity," Harrison concluded. 
Stefan elaborated on Harrison's point. "When your sexuality is oppressed, that most beautiful and saered part of you, when that is suppressed, it is simply awful," she said. 
SP.nior Tara Mooney brought up the issue of women's friend­ships at Saint Mary's. which she believes to be lacking. "There is a bankruptcy of intimate rela­tionships here, not of the sexual kind," she said. 
"It's missing in our lives here," Curtis agreed. "For some rea­son, we're intimidated by it." 
Sophomore Maggie Sherer addressed the considerable lack of support from heterosexual students for the lesbians on campus. "I just wonder why more of us weren't supporting our sisters on Coming Out Oay," she said. "We really need that." 
"We put sexuality and race ... in front of being human. and that is just wrong," student Karen Murphy stated. "As par­ents. sisters, friends, and lovers. we need to teach basic human dignity; that is the most impor­tant thing that we can talk about involving sexuality or other­wise," she said. 
At that point in the discussion. College presidP.nt Marilou Eldred commended the discussion and voiced suggestions to the group. 
"I am extremely proud of the openness and honesty [in this 
BUY DIAMONDS BELOW WHOLESALE! 
9!A. f!!Jeclv ~ <fi{)/. 
Since 1921 
CHICAGO • NEW YORK • ANTWERP •ISRAEL 
Direct Diamond Importers 1-800-922-0090 
or visit our website at 

sapeck.com 
Winner of The Reader's Digest LookSmart Editor's Choice Award 
diseussion]," she said. 
Eldred suggested establishing a womAn's issues forum that would meet to discuss topics, brought up during the evening's discussion, which she felt deserved further attention. These topics included homosex­uality, labeling, racism, women's friendships, women in the work­place. and eommunity building. 
"If we are going to carry on this disc:ussion. and bring more pPople to it. I would appreeiate if someone could think of how to do this on a regular basis and for it to be more inclusive," Eldred said. 



~ 


Free Food Free Food Free Food Free FoodFree Food Free Food Free Food 

Tuesday, November 4, 1997 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 



Truckers wage economic warfare 
French strike blocks access, may prolong recession in neighboring countries 
By CHRISTOPHER BURNS Associated Press Writer 
PARIS 
Taking aim at France's economic jugular, striking French truckers manned scores of roadblocks Monday, choking access to ports, fuel depots, industrial hubs and border routes across Europe. 
The job action, which began late Sunday after negotiations over pay and working conditions broke down, was a repeat of protests that crippled French commerce a year ago. Truckers from neighboring countries, aware that they faced being stuck on French highways, stayed away in droves. 
A prolonged strike in France, Europe's main highway axis, could slow Christmas shipments and hurt economies struggling out of recession. Italian truckers were threatening a strike next week. 
"I understand why they want more money for what they do," said British trucker Peter Ellis, stuck in one traffic jam. "(But) to be stopped and taken as prisoner is not really the fair way to do it, is it?" 
Major traffic jams were reported Monday in every French region, includ­ing all routes to the English Channel ferries in Normandy and many impor­tant bridges. France's road information service reported about 140 barricades around the country. 
Most roadblocks were designed to slowly filter private motorists through while halting commercial traffic. 
Authorities began gas rationing in some parts of the country, as truckers surrounded and cut off almost all French oil refmeries. 
European Transport Commissioner Neil Kinnock, calling the strike "extremely significant in economic and social terms," estimated that it could cost $114 million and cut French eco­nomic growth. 
The unions, representing the nation's 300,000 truckers, are demanding pay hikes of up to 7 percent from compa­nies, complaining they are squeezed by competition. 
The government of Socialist Prime Minister Lionel Jospin, facing its first major crisis since coming to power in June, sought to get trucking owners back to the bargaining table early Tuesday. 
"Our companies are on a razor's edge; we can't give anymore," a stern­faced Jean-Louis Amato, head of the trucking owners' federation Unostra, told reporters before meeting with Transport Minister Jean-Luc Gayssot. 
Police intervened at least twice overnight Sunday to keep highway crossings into Spain open, but the unions vowed to keep up efforts to halt all cross-border commercial traffic. 
The French toy industry worried the strike could deal them a serious blow. "Our sector makes 70 percent of its revenue in the last two months of the year," said the French Federation of Toy Industries. 
Jospin has not taken sides in the trucker struggle, and offered Saturday night to lower trucking taxes by $133 per truck to relieve pressure on the two sides. But the offer was not enough to bring the owners back to the table Sunday. 
The drivers want a guaranteed salary of $1,600 for 200 hours of work a m.onth and a change in the number of hours wcrked, including down time during loading and unloading. 


Monday, sinking hundreds of fishing boats _ t_latttmirtg thousands of homes in the mQst devastating Storm tQ hit the country in decades. 
The storm came on the heels nf an earlier 

Mau. As fu,any as 13,000 clapboard and mud homes were slammed the Northern Mariana Islands over detnolisl}.e(f .or.heavily damaged, a federal official told The and a cydonf:l that shredded the northern·C«i --·-Ass ·tess; ...-.<i· 
Pounding the Vietnamese coast with · biggest storm .tq hitthis area in nearly 100 mph, Unda left a trail ofdestruction in Ca Ma Nguyen Tat Ho~, a senior official from the At least 500 small fishing boats and the Storm Control Department in Hanoi. 


------------------~~------~-­
page 6 
The Observer· PAID ADVERTISEMENT Tuesday, November 4, 1997 


+ Campus Ministry This Week + 





OFFICE OF CAMPUS MINISTRY 
103 Hesburgh Library: 631-7800 112 Badin Hall: 631-5242 
,.
Basilica Offices: 631-8463 

Cairn Singers and Instrumentalists 
A concert of Celtic music, dance and poetry under the direction of Fr. Liam Lawton will be presented in the Basilica on Tuesday, November 4 at 7:30pm. All are in­vited to welcome this Irish group to Notre Dame. For information, please call Gail Walton at 631-5242. 

Eucharistic Adoration 
From 11:30 p.m. on every Monday through 10:00 p.m. on Tuesday, there will be Eucharistic Adoration in Fisher Hall Chapel. Adoration begins after celebration of the 11:00 p.m. Mass and end with Benediction. Every Friday when the University is in session in the Basilica: Exposition of the Blessed Sacrament from 12:00 pm until 5:00 pm. 

Campus Bible Study 
Tuesdays, 7:00pm. Campus Ministry-Badin Hall 

Graduate Student Bible Study 
Wednesdays, 8:00 pm, Wilson Commons 

Small Faith Sharing Groups 
At the beginning of the semester, many students signed-up to express their interest in belonging to a Small Faith-Sharing Group and/or to participate in a student-led Bible Study Group. We are now ready to gather together all interested students to talk about a Campus Ministry vision for Small Faith-Sharing/Bible Study Groups and to hear from you about what your hopes and needs are. Please join us for a pizza dinner and listening session on November 9 from 5:00-7:00P.M. in Walsh Hall's basement social space. We need a head-count for dinner so please R.S.V.P. at 631-5242 and ask for Kate, John, or Sylvia. 

Speak-Out: African American Community in Conversation 
"Survey -The Results" Guest Panelist Illya Davis, Department of Theology, University of Chicago Monday, November 10, 8:00 -10:00 pm, The Center for Social Concerns 

Welcome to our gay and lesbian students 
Campus Ministry welcomes any gay or lesbian undergraduates, or those discerning their sexual orientation, to come together for conversation, support and friendship. Call Kate Barrett@ 631-5242 or Alyssa at 634-1884. All conversations are completely confidential. 
Tuesday, November 4, 1997 

The Observer • NEWS page 7 
N.Y. 'Bloods' adopt west coast traditions 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK 
A woman is slashed across the neck on Park Avenue in what one attacker says is an initiation rite for the Bloods gang. 
A girl is sexually assaulted in the bathroom of a New York City high school and says one of her assailants bragged about being a Blood. 
An HIV-infected man terrifies New Yorkers by admitting he has had unprotected sex with dozens of young women. He, too, claims Bloods membership. 
Absent on New York police blotters just a year ago, the Bloods -or their "wannabes" -are creating a citywide scare. A growing number of criminals are pledging alle­giance to a version of the gang known for fighting bloody turf wars on California streets. 
The outbreak has become an issue in the mayoral election and the subject of a debate over whether Gotham's Bloods -and its Crips, too -are actual gang members worthy of all the attention. 
"There's nothing new about gangs in New York City," said Jeffrey Fagan of Columbia University's Center for Violence Research and Prevention. "The hysteria over this is far more intense than the problem itself." 
Still, authorities -eager to preserve the city's record run of plummeting crime rates ­have gone on the offensive. 
In August, police arrested dozens of suspected Bloods in "Operation Red Bandana" -a reference to the gang's signa­ture color. The sweep came in response to about 130 random slashings since January, half attributed to a blood-drawing initiation rite. 
In the past week alone, police cracked do~ on a branch of the Crips in East Harlem called the Rollin' Thirties Crips, arresting 24 members on drug and other charges, and foiled a plot in which two Brooklyn rape suspects allegedly tried to silence their 14-year-old victim by paying a Blood $5,000 to kill her. 
Authorities have identified about 1,000 Bloods in the city, including 500 in the jail system. Yet the gang remains a riddle. 
Experts and police agree the Bloods are much less organized and fraternal than established New York City gangs like the Latin Kings, Netas and Zulu Nation. They also have no offi­cial affiliation with their mur­derous West Coast counter­parts. 
"They're alien creatures to us," said Sgt. Wes McBride, a member of a Los Angeles County sheriff's gang unit. "The slashings, we don't have that. The gangs out here don't take any pleasure in hurting people for no reason. If they have a problem, they just blow you away." 
So who are the New York City Bloods? 
One profile portrays them as independent crews, or "sets," of 20 or so petty criminals who identify each other with red clothing and a triangle of ciga­rette-burn scars on their shoul­ders. 
In some neighborhoods in Brooklyn, Queens and Manhattan the crews have been linked to assaults, subway robberies, crack dealing and random mayhem aimed at muscling out criminal competi­tion. 
"We have our o~ New York­style Bloods," said Queens prosecutor Mariela Palomino­Stanton. "They've borrowed traditions of the (West Coast) Bloods and put their own stamp on them. But it's not so organized that you can really get a clear picture of the extent of the problem." 
Some authorities speculate that the Bloods on the street "graduated" from the city jail system, where black inmates began banding together and using the name to protect themselves from Hispanic gangs. 
The school system also is rife with "gang intimidation strate­gies," according to a recent report by Edward Stancik, the Board of Education's chief investigator. 
Bloods in Brooklyn waited outside a junior high school to jump students, hold boxcutters to their throats and offer them "one way out: join the gang," the report said. 
The same week the report made headlines, Mayor Rudolph Giuliani announced he was beefing up the Police Department's street gang unit. He vowed to create gang-free school zones. He also called on legislators to enact tougher anti-gang laws, boasting that his proposals are "precisely what should have been done in the 1920s with the Mafia." 
Critics called the mayor's announcement election-year hyperbole. 
They also claimed the mayor and Stancik failed to distin­guish between real Bloods and teen-agers who are using the name. 





VIEWPOINT 
page 8 Tuesday, November 4, 1997 
THE OBSERVER 

NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1997-98 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Brad Prendergast 
Managing Editor 
Jamie Heisler 

Assistant Managing Editor 
Dan Cichalski 

News Editor... , ........................ Heather Cocks Viewpoint Editor ....................... Kelly Brooks Sports Editor .................................. Mike Day Accent Editor....................c••••••Joey Crawford Saint Mary's Editor ........................ Lori Allen Photo Editor ........................... Katie Kroener 
Business Manager Tom Roland 

Advenising Manager.............................. Jed Peters Ad Design Manager ..................... Jennifer Breslow Production Manager.........................Mark DeBoy Systems Manager ....................... Michael Brouillet Controller............................................ Kyle Carlin 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration ofeither institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Sports Editor, Accent Editor, Saint Mary's Editor, Photo Editor, and Associate News Editor. Commentaries, leners and Inside Columns present the views of the authors, and nor neces­sarily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Norre Dame/Saint Mary's community and to all readers. The free expression of varying opinions rhrough leners is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 

Editor-in-Chief  63I-4542  Business Office  63I-53I3  
Managing Editor  63I-454I  Advertising  631-6900/8840  
News/Photo  63I-5323  Systems  63I-8839  
Spans  63I-4543  Office Manager  631-747I  
Accem/Sainr Mary's  63I-4540  Fax  63I-6927  
Day EdirorNiewpoinr  63I-5303  Viewpoint E-Mail  Viewpoinr.I@nd.edu  
General Informacion  63I-7471  Ad E-Mail  obsen•er@darwin.cc.nd.edu  

• TABLE TALK 
'Those Stripes Are Meant For Me' 

In this year's inaugural edition of Right Reason, Frederick Kelly, editor-in-chief, defends his publication against charges of being uncharitable, arguing that such charges stem from an inaccurate view of Jesus ("Right Reason: Where Charity 

and Love Prevail," Oct. 1997). 
I agree with Mr. Kelly that the popular portrayal of Jesus as a mild-mannered new-age guru is a gross caricature which too often becomes an excuse for our own timidity in confronting injustice. I, too, am all in favor of dispensing with images of Christ as a jovial Santa Claus or a sickly sweet purple Barney. 
But I am unpersuaded that the correc­tive is to focus so entirely -or with so much evident self-satisfaction -on the "harsh judgments" of Jesus. There are more ways to understand Christianity than those extremes which lead either to an ethics of "anything goes" -or to a position where rigid morality replaces Jesus as savior, the extreme to which I fear Right Reason often strays. 
Mr. Kelly writes, "it is sheer nonsense to conceive of Christ's love as one of mere acceptance." Yes, but it empties the Gospel of any content as gospel, as good news, to say that after pronouncing forgiveness Jesus "demands" moral transformation and "commands" us to sin no more. To reduce Jesus' message to the conclusion that now "we must strive endlessly for perfection" is hardly good news at all. In fact, the very point of the passage from Ephesians (5:26-27) cited by Mr. Kelly to support this, is that our salvation does not rest in our own efforts at perfection, but in Christ's effort to perfect us in the cross. 
Jesus' call to "Be perfect as your Father in heaven is perfect" (Matt. 6:48) is indeed a "daunting task." But, again, it is not a call to self-saving scrupulous moral perfection. In Luke's version of the same passage Jesus says, "Be merci­ful as your Father is merciful" (Luke 6:36-RSV; "compassionate" in the Jerusalem Bible). The perfection of God is mercy or compassion, and it is that to which we are called. 
Further, seen against the backdrop of his entire ministry, Jesus' exhortation to "sin no more" is less a command than a permission. Forgiveness, as announced by Jesus, is not the word of an angry God who, after pronouncing it, glares at us and says, "Now, don't let it happen again!" It is rather the healing word of God which recreates us as new crea­tures with new possibilities. 
The Catholic Catechism says that bap­tism frees us from the necessity of sin. It is less that we are forbidden to sin, than that, in the embrace of God's forgiveness we are finally able, permitted, to live lives of "orthodoxy," that is, lives which offer "right praise" to God. (Not that we can ever do so perfectly -as though we could render what God accomplished in Jesus merely redundant to our own moral efforts -but that because of the forgiveness of God we are no longer cut ofT from that Spirit which brings new life to us, even-if imperfectly, already now.) 
The core of Mr. Kelly's defense rests in the assertion that Right Reason's special charisma is to model a Christ-like chari­ty after the manner in which Jesus con­fronted the Pharisees, even calling them "a brood of vipers" (Matt. 12:34). 
Yet Jesus derides the Pharisees 
because of their persistence in playing 
the broker between God and God's peo­
ple, setting themselves up as the dis­
pensers of God's justice and mercy­
and on terms infinitely less gracious 
than God's own. Elsewhere he likens 
them to "white-washed tombs" (Matt. 
23:27), implying that for all their moral 
purity and religious piety, they are, in 
fact, places of death. Specifically, they 
"burden the people with heavy loads," they "shut up heaven in people's faces," and in their meticulous morality they ignore "justice, mercy, and faithfulness" (Matt. 23:4, 13, 23). 
Jesus' charge against the Pharisees is uncomfortably akin to the role that Mr. Kelly seems to appoint/or his publica­tion. Before Mr. Kelly flies the flag of these encounters from the masthead of Right Reason, he might wish to look again as to which side of these encoun­ters Right Reason stands on. 
Nowhere has Right Reason fashioned itself more after this Jesus of tough charity than in its "coverage of the whole sodomy problem." I am loath to address the question of homosexuality at all, because it requires far more space than either my editors or readers will grant me. But I will say this much, we would all do well to reconsider just what "sodomy" is-that is, what type of activity characterized those persons who fell under God's judgment in Sodom. 
Increasingly scholars suggest that the sin of Sodom cannot be so quickly labeled as homosexuality. It is clearly not the consensual homosexuality that seeks acceptance today. It is recounted here (Gen. 19:1-28; cf. Judges 19:22-30) as the lust to rape, and is perceived by Lot to be ultimately indifferent to man or woman; it is focused on the desire to abuse the vulnerable person, in this case, the stranger. Indeed, the only Old Testament reference which specifies the sin of Sod om (Ezekiel 16:49) says that Sodom's guilt was that, despite a surplus of food and overall prosperity, its inhabi­tants "did not aid the poor and the needy" -they abused the vulnerable in their midst. 
Thus, "sodomy" might legitimately be regarded as the failure to show hospital­ity to strangers or care for the vulnera­ble, an injunction esteemed in the ancient world quite beyond our imagin­ing. Moreover, I should note that these scholars are merely catching up to the view Jesus himself seems to have held of sodomy. 
The only time Jesus refers to Sodom ­and it is in one of those episodes of "harsh judgment" that Mr. Kelly so admires -he compares the fate of towns which refuse hospitality to the apostles to that of Sod om and Gomorrah (Matt. 10:15; Luke 10:10). In other words, as bad as it was to be inhos­pitable (by whatever means, rape or oth­erwise). to those messengers of God, it will be still more disastrous to be inhos­pitable (again, by whatever means) to these messengers of Jesus. For Jesus, the issue is not the homosexuality (or even the rape, really); it is the lack of hospitality. This would appear to be Jesus' definition of sodomy. 
Ironically then, between Right Reason's stances toward inclusivity, equality, and multiculturalism, it inad­vertently weds itself to the promotion of sodomy (thus understood)-a conclu­sion that would be almost amusing were it not for the deep wounds inflicted on members of our community in this ven­ture. 
In the same manner, it is worth noting that in Matthew's famous scene (25:31­
46) of the last judgment, Jesus praises no one and condemns no one based on their watchfulness of others' morality, but according to the care shown -or not shown-"to the least of these," the vulnerable ones, care which Jesus then names as care shown even unto himself. 
Finally, for everything said so far, what troubles me most is the editorial's closing sentiment, "We live in a fallen world and should remember that for some men (sic) stripes, not kindness are in order." Fair enough, Mr. Kelly. But recognize this: each and every time you raise your rhetorical whip, it is Jesus who places himself between you and your chosen sinner and says, "Excuse me, I believe those stripes are meant for me." 
David Weiss is a Ph.D. candidate in Christian ethics. His column appears every other Tuesday. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not neces­sarily thmw n[The Observer. 
• Quon: OF THE 0AY

• Di.H)NESBURY GARRY TRUDEAU 
" I will give you water, if you will share your wine." 
-Dave Matthews 


-----.-----­

VIEWPOINT
Tuesday, November 4, 1997 page 9 
. 

• JEm MiND Tmcxs 
The Bizzaro Bowl, and Why it Was Ron Powlus' Fault 
On Saturday, the South Bend community was treat­ed to the theater of the bizarre. It was clear that Halloween's masquerade spilled over and into the Notre Dame/Navy thriller. 

Kevin Patrick 

The first example of the bizarre was the Notre Dame offense throwing a bomb in their first series of plays. It was dropped of course, and, as we all know, it was Ron Powlus' fault (as was last week's stock market crash, the OPEC oil crises, and the human rights violations by the Chinese government). 
The second example of the bizarre was that it turns out Jarius Jackson is actually flawed (again, Ron Powlus' fault}. Third, we scored points in the third quarter (nothing to do with Powlus here). Fourth, the bizarre banner: "Yes Zahm, I will marry you, Love Dillon" (although too much honeymooning got this marriage off to a rocky start as both interhall football teams lost the next day}. Fifth, clock management became rocket science (you-know-who was the quar­terback}. Fifth was the deja vu all over again for defensive coordinator Greg Mattison as Navy's "Hail Mary" (a failed "Hail Mary" AGAINST Notre Dame on All Saint's Day? That's no luck of the Irish-God's honest truth) made a one in 1,000 chance seem worth taking (three seconds on the clock, we rushed only three guys, had Navy scored they would have won by three, replays showPd Navy was pushed out of bounds closer to the three. Coincidence? Remember, the important thing to do at this point is to assign blame. Call Oliver Stone, he'll do the math). 
However, the most shocking and bizarre occurrence did not happen until the game was over. Once the referees made what was clearly the correct call, the "line young men" of the Naval Academy went berserk. Not only did they instigate fights with the Notre Dame players, but they wanted to fight the ref­Prees! Their captain, senior Dave Viger, number 91, could be heard screaming, "Where are those fu**ing refs? Get those f***ing refs!" 
Imagine if the rnfs had made the incorrect call. But those "fine young men" from the Naval Academy weren't through. Unable to attack those hulking refs, tlwy set their sights elsewhere. 
After our band graciously waited for Navy to play tllPir alma mater, the Midshipmen proceeded to 
• LETTERs TO THE Enrrm~ 
accost, tackle, curse at, punch, and throttle Notre Dame's unsuspecting band members. Among others, senior Ryan Souse was blasted while playing his saxo­phone, drawing blood. Also witnessed were numer­ous band members being blind-sided by the Navy players. But that's not all. Specifically, the Naval 
,, Academy's number 93 (Greg Adams in your program for those of you keeping score at home) could be identified punching an unsuspecting band member. What was the response of Jack Lengyel, the Naval Acarlemy's athletic director? "It was not an inten­tional thing of any kind. This is a tradition and some­thing we do after every game. It was normal proce­dure. You always see (Navy) do that every time." Do you? Really? Maybe in the hotel security videos from the "Tailhook" scandal, but I hope not at every stadi­um they visit. To be fair to Mr. Lengyel, he was trying to spin his answer into a response to the general logistical problem of saying a prayer at midfield. But unfortunately that wasn't the real problem, and you can't just bury your head in the sand and hope this problem goes away. John Locke said famously, "You are what you were." But who is this Navy? The Navy we saw cannot hold a candle to the Roger Staubachs and Jimmy Carters whom I passion­ately despised in their professional careers, but whom I also respect to no end as men of character and zeal. The Navy we saw were the men of "Tailhook," the men of cheating scandals, and the men of the rampant theft rings. Their reputation already isn't the best in the business. They need to be doing things better and cleaner than the other guys. Navy's band could be seen upholding the positive tra­ditions of the academy and even a few of the coaches tried to stop the players from playing pinball with the band. But that is not enough. The gutless explanation to the Irish Guard from the Navy players and coaches was that they were going to say a prayer at mid-field. I've only been in Catholic schools for 17 years, but "F*** you all", and "What are you going to do to 80 of us?" aren't in the prayer books I read. Maybe if the Irish Guard had the Incredible Hulk on their side they would have had a chance. As Ben Wright of the Irish Guard put it, "They were confrontational, hostile, and getting in our face. They weren't there to pray, they wanted to make a statement. And their coaches were not help­ing the situation one bit. They were even more of a problem. They were as confrontational as the players. We were met with 'What the f*** do you want?' 'What the hell is your problem?"' You could see that the Navy players were so hot, you would have needed the Notre Dame fire fighters to cool them off. Thankfully, the class of Notre Dame won out and discretion was the better part of valor on this day. As junior Doug Hafemann said, "Navy's real 
tough after our team leaves the field." I personally was waiting for Notre Dame to come running out of the tunnel as if this were WWF wrestling. 
I could expect this from Ohio State or U$C. But the service academies supposedly are held to a higher standard. As Admiral C. R. Larson, U.S. Navy Superintendent writes: "Our mission is 'to develop midshipmen morally, mentally and physically and to imbue them with the highest ideals of duty, honor and loyalty in order to provide graduates who are dedicated to a career of naval service and have potential for future development in mind and charac­ter to assume the highest responsibilities of com­mand, citizenship and government.' 
"The Naval Academy offers a unique opportunity where young men and women gather in a special environment to learn and practice ideals that may often seem to be lacking in modern society. The result of this comprehensive process is a collective group of young leaders potentially more morally, mentally and physically sensitive than any that could be produced in another environment. That is one of the major traits that distinguishes the Naval Academy and its graduates. 
"We must always provide the Naval service with leaders who demonstrate excellence in carrying out all their duties, but who do so with humility ­achieving 'excellence without arrogance.' We stand prepared to show the American people the value of the Naval Academy-the value added by the Naval Academy-to the security, strength, vision and lead­ership of our nation." 
What a joke. Where does taunting and parading yourself in a belligerent manner through the band fit into their curriculum? Navy tried to SHOCK THE WORLD with an upset of the Irish. Unfortunately all they did was mar a great performance and damage an already diminishing reputation. Maybe they need to assess who they are and what they hope to be. Maybe they need a guardian angel, too, like the ones seen all over South Bend the night before to keep them from weakening the strength of the academy with such disgraceful displays. 
Which all leads to one question: Does Ron Powlus have a good alibi for his whereabouts during this fias­co? 
Kevin Patrick is a third year JDIMBA student. He is from Annapolis, Md., and is proud of the great achievements of the Naval Academy but is embar­rassed by their continued disgraceful behavior. And in case you cannot comprehend sarcasm or satire, he is a huge Ron Powlus supporter. His column appears every other Monday. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the 
author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 

'Men About Campus' Strip Reflects Lack of Education 
I believe I understand, Mr. known. educate our community on Sullivan, your intent in depict­I was angered, though, about multicultural issues, and I
is a Repeat Offender 
ing what you did last Friday in the actions of Mr. Sullivan and applaud the efforts of the your comic strip. I truly believe The Observer, as were many departments and individuals I am writing in response to the comic "Men About Campus" which that if you knew how many others. As an alum and now who have made the effort to doappeared on Friday, Oct. 31, entitled "Quick and Easy Halloween people you hurt and why you administrator of the so. However, there is more toCostumes." Not only was this particular piece completely lacking in hurt them, you would never University, I have seen many be done. The University of humor, it was also in extremely poor taste. Specifically, the author have depicted such a degrad­racist incidents take place. Notre Dame strives to be oneof the strip offered a number of suggestions for dressing up, nearly ing message. And I do forgive Although culprits of racist of the top schools of higher all of which were demeaning in some form. For instance, he pro­the editors of The Observer education in our nation, andposed that individuals could go as the "Sixth spice girl," or "Old and accept Mr. Prendergast's our students pay a largespice," accompanying his words with a picture of an elderly woman. 
apology for allowing the comic amount of money for a qualityHe also recommended that students could go as "munchkins with a 
'To the Notre 

to be in print. The error in education. We must live up topituitary problem." Pinally. he asserted that one could dress as an judgment was unfortunate, Dame communi­our own standards and give alien. i.e., as the caption below his sketch of a "typical" Notre Dame and I am happy they have our students the education 
student stated, as "a Mexican without a green card.'' While the ty, I ask that, if you 
taken responsibility for their that they are paying for and author of the comic may not have intended any malice, his sugges­actions. care, please help me that they deserve. 
tion carried the implication that all Mexicans are aliens or second­To Mr. Loughran, the associ­Mr. Sullivan did not know 
class citizens, gravely offensive to the many Latino students here at in the education of 
ate news editor of The why his comic offended the Notre Dame. 
Observer, who wrote the those who choose not students here at Notre Dame While I cannot confess to being a regular follower of "Men About '"Men About Campus' Offends to care, and of those because he is uneducated onCampus," I must say that this is not the first time I have found it to be Students" article on the front the issue. He is only a repre­
discomfiting. For example, it often includes derogatory remarks who do not know why 
page of Monday's edition, I sentative of the number of stu­
about women and their relationships with Notre Dame men. In fact, its very title is exclusionary, suggesting that males are the only per­would like to point out an inac­they really should.' dents who do not know when 
curacy in your first sentence. racism occurs and why it sons "about campus." 
You wrote that Notre Dame hurts. To the Notre Dame com­As an avid reader of The Observer, and a former staff member, I students reacted angrily about actions need to be reprimand­munity, I ask that, if you care, am appalled to witness that it is becoming a vehicle for the promo­the comic strip. The adminis­ed, the University itself needs please help me in the educa­tion of unfounded stereotypes and prejudices, detrimental to the very trative and student leaders to be held accountable for its tion of those who choose not to heart of our campus life. Indeed, the "Spirit of Inclusion" will never that initiated the distribution students' actions -including care, and of those who do notbe realized as long as our student newspaper continues to condone of the flyer did not do so out of me. As the assistant director in know why they really should. 
the publication of such blatantly racist and misinformed material. 
anger, but rather hurt and dis­the Office of Multicultural To Mr. Sullivan, Mr. 
Thus, I would strongly suggest that the comic strip be terminated appointment. In fact, the flier Student Affairs. I feel it is Prendergast, Mr. Loughran,and that those responsible for its production be dealt with according­was created and distributed to imperative that we demon­and the rest of The Observer ly. If we are to be a true family, we must accept this truth: There inform the Notre Dame com­strate our commitment to staff. I know you all care, soare no aliens among us. 
munity about a racist incident, diversity and multicultural please help in the education 
whether it was intentionally education so that these types process.
Megan Ferstenfeld racist or not. Its message is not of incidents do not occur
Senior one of anger, but one rather of again. We must be proactive, Kevin Huie 
McGlinn Hall sadness -as the tear rolling not reactive. Assistant Director 
Nm·ember 3 ,1997 
down Mary's face depicts. Many initiatives have been Office ofMulticultural Student Affairs Please understand this, Mr. and continue to be in place at November 3, 1997 Loughran, and please let it be this University that attempt to 
~------­

page 10 Tuesday, November 4, 1997






ACCENT 



Fte 
onder u[ 


• ACCENT ASKS ••• 
What is your favorite museum? 

"The Air and Space Museum. It's high-flying fun." 
Kathleen Forrest Sophomore, Pasquerilla East 
"Fat Schuck's House of 
Horrors. It has a plethora 
of large, scary objects." 
Dan Delaney Senior, Off-Campus 



"The Smithsonian Natural History. In order to under­
stand our present, we must 
recognize the past." 
Cathy Whitehouse Sophomore, Pasquerilla East 
"The Holocaust Museum. It 
was very moving and pow­
erful." 
Paul Miller Freshman, Knott 



"The Art Institute of Chicago. It's got some great art!" 
Mary Zakas Freshman, Cavanaugh 
The Observer/Kevin Dalum 

By BRIDGET RZEZUTKO 
Accent Writer 
T
he South Bend Regional Museum of Art. What is its vide quality arts programming and education, an«l artistic heritage of the region for generations to co ties to the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's communit, realize. The present curator of the museum is Leis11 is not only a curator but also an adjunct professor of art at 
Currently featured in the museum's Warner Rotunda li Derek Chalfant, an adjunct professor of sculpture at Notre lures are primarily comprised of towers which are made of shapes symbolize security and protection. They are coj hncause it is both affordable and plentiful in Midwestern a: rnsents the qualities of strength, hardness and permanence 
Plants and clothing serve as the recurring motifs in his ar nl' plants "add a dimension of real life to my work, which f contemporary sculpture does not possess. By enshrining c tree in a gallery setting, I hope to bring attention to the VB Chalfant said. 
Finally, the clothing is a basic necessity that protects tl 
£dements of nature. With his artwork, Chalfant hopes to of "why is there so much abuse, neglect and violence, e women and defenseless children. Why such disrespect for · 
Not only does the museum always possess a ,.u'""'-'••1 pieces, it also constructs special exhibits to commemorate 1 South Bend Hegional Museum of Art is currently in the ing it's 50th anniversary, which is just one year after th 
,ving. 
ThfJ museum contains three galleries. Inside the W lpction of the art, photographs and memorabilia from musPum's history. Permanent collection works, important 
nf the individuals and groups who have contributed to museum since its origins in 1947 are also remembered. Currently f.:>atured in The Art League Gallery from now u talented Chicago artist Vivian Nunley with a show .:> 
"Stepchild" by Derek Chalfant. 

Tuesday, November 4, 1997 page 11
ACCENT 


from the. College Football Hall of Fame at 120 South Saint Joseph St. 
on? To pro-
than many may Hundquist, who aint Mary's. 
the artwork of . Ilis srulp­The tower 
lr the most part, isolating a live lw~ of plant life." 
body from the tisP the questions ally towards 
fe.?" 
Gallery is a col­50 years of the nts and some 
w growth of the 
~til Nov. 30 is the p, "Gods, Angels 

Photo Courtesy of Bridget Rzezutko 
"Gods, Angels and DRmons" by Vivian Nunley. 

and DPmons." ller work is composed of natural objects, such as dried birds and animal skeletons. mixed with paintings of amphibian and insect imagery. 
Her goal? To portray the longing for a faint memory of the dead and also to rP.present remnants of the living and the inevitable process of decay and disintegration. Her work also contains a mixture of both idealism and real­ism that clearly conveys an absence of presence. 
The museum features more than nationally acclaimed artists. The Northern Indiana Artists (NIA} are under the spotlight in the Jerome J. Crowley Community Gallery until Nov. 9. This group has been in existence 
The Observer/Bridget Rzezutko 
since 1946 and continues to be active within the community. This exhibition includes works executed in watercolor, acrylic, oil and various mixrd media. 
Aside from browsing through the lush collection, the museum offers a wide range of classes and workshops available for both adults and children. The tuition costs vary depending on the class but are relatively inexpensive and are even cheaper if one is a member of the museum, in which they would receive a 20 percent discount off of all classes. The fee for a student membership to the museum is $25. A sample of the classes being offered by the museum are painting, drawing, sculpture, calligraphy, jewelry, photog­raphy and ceramics. 
The museum also contains a gift shop. Art work is for sale along with art mlatnd puzzles, cards, pottp,ry and jewelry, and members receive a 10 per­rent discount off of all purchases. 
Mark your calendars for an upcoming show at the museum entitled, "Phat 50 Anniversary Album" bp,ginning Nov. 15 and running through Jan.y 25 inside the Crowley Community Gallery. The museum has asked 50 artists from the region to each crflate a page that will be combined to produce an album commemorating the museum's 50th anniversary. 
Thtl South Bend Regional Museum of Art is located at 120 South Saint Joseph Street, directly across the street from the College Football Hall of Fame, just mere minutes from campus. The gallery hours are Tuesday through Friday 11 a.m. to 5 p.m. and Saturday and Sunday noon to 5 p.m. Admission is free with the option of contributing a small donation. 
Any questions? Call the museum at 235-9102. 


• ACCENT SPEAKS 
In Awe of Art 
By NATE WILLS 
Assistant Accent Editor 
I 
'II be the first one to admit it, I know very little about cre­ating, critiquing, or appreciating art. In fact, the most exposure I had to art before college was a couple of school field trips to the Minneapolis Museum of Art, watching that oil painting guy on PBS, and the brief scene in the Chicago Art Institute from the movie,"Ferris Bueller's Day Off." 
But last year I had the rare opportunity to take an Art History class that has really given me a taste of the beauty and the won­der of art throughout the ages. 
That was a pretty amazing accomplishment considering my previous art experience, but it was not your average art history class. I studied in Rome through the Saint Mary's Rome Program and the class was a hands-on encounter with some of the most beautiful and historically significant art in the history of western civilization. 
Let me just begin by saying that I think I fell pretty much with­in the mainstream of people on this campus regarding my beliefs about art in general before I went to Rome. My sentiment was one of indifference-art: "sure, fme, whatever." But I think the root of my apathy toward art lay in the lack of exposure to a diversity of great pieces of art and different art forms. 
When I began classes in Rome, Art History instantly became my favorite. The professor was brilliant and engaging during class time as he talked not only about the beauty of the art we were studying , but also the historical context which bore it into existence. 
Along with the standard art slides that one expects from an art class, every Wednesday, we took a trip to either a local church {there's one on every corner in Rome!}, or went to one of the many museums in the area. Our expeditions ranged from a quick tour of the pantheon to an all day trip to the Vatican Museums. I saw amazing works of art where ever I went and started thinking to myself, maybe this isn't so bad after all.. 
But my true conversion came mid-semester when our group of seven men and 58 women went to Naples, Italy for a couple of days. We spent a day roaming around the long-buried ruins of Pompeii and listening to each other give research presentations on various works of art and aspects of life in the ancient city. 
When the time came for my presentation, I just stood in awe of the fresco that I had chosen. I had done a lot of research on it, written a 10 page paper, and prepared a speech on this one piece of art and as I stood face-to-face with it, I could only smile in delight. I felt overwhelmed with amazement that I was a part of something that I had only seen in textbooks, alive with color and depth. It was an awesome feeling-like the first time you set foot in a sports stadium-with a wide-eyed gaze and a rush of sensory overload. 
In that moment, seemingly for the first time in my life, I saw the simple beauty of art. 
In the months that followed, I was able to see other museums and churches in Rome and was truly moved by many of the works of art that I saw within them (my favorite being the Pieta in Saint Peter's Cathedral). Just before I went home, I was fortu­nate to travel a little in Western Europe for a couple of weeks and see the Lourve, the Musee d'Orsay, and the British National Museum on my own. 
Being able to see monumental works of art and sculpture like the Mona Lisa, Monet's garden paintings, and pieces of the Parthenon within these museums were amazing moments in my overseas experience. And although I eventually had to pack my bags and return to Notre Dame, I brought back something which I had never planned on receiving-an openness to let art affect me and an appreciation for the beauty it can inspire within the heart of its lovers. 
Internet sites for more information about art: 
http://mistraLculture.fr/louvre/ http://www .nga.gov/ http://www.artic.edu/ 
.. 
---~~ 

page 12 The Observer • SPORTS Tuesday, November 4, 1997
.,_ 
• MONDAY NIGHT fOOTBAll 

Allen's arm elevates Chiefs 
Associated Press 
KANSAS CITY. Mo. 
Marcus Allen's legs have carried him throughout a 16­year career. I lis arm carried the Kansas City Chiefs to a 13-10 victory Monday night over the Pittsburgh Steelers. 
Allen threw a 14-yard sec­ond-quarter touchdown pass to Danan Hughes, and the defense made it stand up, shutting down Kordell Stewart in a scoreless second half. 
The Chiefs (7-2) could have and should have won by more as they remained a game behind Denver in the AFC West. But they'll take it. 
After Pittsburgh took a 10-0 first quarter lead, Kansas City scored 13 in the second quar­ter -Allen's TD pass and field goals of 35 and 44 yards by Pete Stoyanovich. 
Then the Chiefs spent the second half moving up and down the field but making critical mistakes. 
Allen fumbled backward after appearing to make a first down on a fourth down at thePittsburgh 4 early in the fourth quarter, and Kimble Anders fumbled away the ball as the Chiefs were driving later in the period. 

But each time a defense led by Derrick Thomas, Anthony Davis and Jerome Woods shut down the Steelers. Stewart, who has had explosive second halves, was contained. Jerome Bettis, who finished 17 for 103 and went over 1,000 yards for the season, had only 35 on seven carries after gaining 68 in the first quarter. 
The loss dropped Pittsburgh (6-3) into a tie for first in the AFC Central with Jacksonville. 
The game was delayed for more than 10 minutes in the third quarter after Kansas City tight end Ted Popson was injured when he was hit under the jaw by the Steelers' Donnell Woolford. The pre­liminary diagnosis was mild head trauma and soreness in the neck. 
Elvis Grbac, the Chiefs' starting quarterback, went off in the fourth quarter with a bruise to his left shoulder. lie finished 16-of-29 for 172 yards. Ilis backup, Rich Gannon, helped the Chiefs control the ball and run out the clock in the final minutes. 
The Steelers, who have been stronger in the second half this year. got off to an uncharacteristically fast start. The TD came first, seven minutes into the game on a 44-yard pass from Stewart to Courtney Hawkins on which two Chiefs missed Hawkins after he caught the ball about the 15. Then Norm Johnson hit a 27-yard field goal set up largely by a 30­yard run by Bettis after Woolford's interception of a Grbac pass. 
But the second quarter belonged to Kansas City. After Stoyanovich's two field goals, Woods picked off a Stewart pass and returned it 17 yards to the Pittsburgh 45. 
Four plays and 55 seconds Ia ter from the 14, Grbac handed off to Allen. who floateda perfect spiral to Hughes, four yards behind the Pittsburgh secondary. It was the fifthTD pass of Allen's career and his first since 1991. 
Popson sustains head trauma 
Associated Press 
KANSAS CITY, Mo. 
Kansas City Chiefs tight end Ted Popson was taken off the field Monday night on a stretcher after he was hit on the chin by the helmet of Pittsburgh cornerback Donnell Woolford. 
Popson had a mild head trauma and sore­ness in his neck and was removed from the field as a precautionary measure, the Chiefs said. Later reports on television said he was "moving and he's alert." 
The game was stopped for several minutes while Popson was secured to a board before he was placed on the stretcher. 

The Chiefs also lost quarterback Elvis Grbac early in the fourth quarter with a eontusion of his left shoulder. 
Grbac was hurt when he was sandwiched by Jason Gildon and Nolan Ilasrrison as he attempted to pass. He was helped into the clubhouse and replaced by backup Hich Gannon. 
Popson had caught an 8-yard pass and was caught from behind by linebacker Earlllolmes. Popson was still up when Woolford came up and hit him on the chin with the top of his hel­met. 
L----------------------------------------------------------------------------­
• BOXING 


Tyson speculates a lifetime suspension 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK ., 
Mike Tyson believes he will not regain his boxing license, sus­pended by the Nevada Athletic Commission because he bit Evander Holyfield twice during their heavyweight championship fight. 
In an interview Monday night on ABC television, Tyson was asked by Alex Wallau whether he thought the commission would reinstate him next year. 
"Truly, I think I'll be banned for the rest of my life," Tyson said. Wallau asked the ex-champion why he believed that. 
"I truly think everyone hates me," he said. "I truly believe that. Because no one gets punished more than I am. But I understand. I'm a big boy and I believe big boys have big ordeals to be dealt with." 
Tyson was suspended by the commission following the Holyfield fight last June at Las Vegas. He can request reinstatement after one year. 
Tyson said he believed people want him to beg for mercy. 
"I'm not that way with anyone," he said. "This is who I am and maybe sometimes it's the insecurity. I want to be the defiant per­son. That's part of my insecurity, but you know. it's just who I 

am." 
Tyson said he feels "disgust. disdain and humiliation" when he watches tapes of the Holyfield fight. 
"I shouldn't have done that," he said of the biting. "It was just striking out and totally hatred right there. I shouldn't have done that because for that one moment, I just forgot he was a human being. 
"It was extremeness. There was some serious stuff going on in my head. I just snapped. I was no longer playing under the rules. Any kind of functional thinking, any kind of rational thinking, that was totally out the window." 
Tyson wishes he knew why. 
"It's pretty embarrassing," he said. "Once the boundaries were crossed, I had no more respect for the rules or principles of rules. and they were just ... open game. I just totally lost it." 
Tyson also commented for the first time since he was hospital­ized after sustainingbroken ribs and a punctured lung in a motor­cycle accident. 
The incident occurred last week as Tyson and some friends were riding motorcydes to his mansion in suburban Farmington, Conn. The group was on a highway ramp trying to turn around when Tyson's 1,100 ce Honda drifted too close to a friend's motorcycle. 
"I fell asleep and I was driving all day and for that split second, I woke up and I was on top of my friend," he said. "J had to throw the bike down before I ran him over." 
Tyson, who was joined for a segment of the interview by his wife, Dr. Monica Turner, and three of their children, said he has been in therapy since the Holyfield affair, trying to change some things about himself. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day !rom 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day clas­

Classifieds sifieds is 3p.m. All clmifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 3 cents per character per day. including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 

NOTICES 
000 THE COPY SHOP 000 
LaFortune Student Center 
Store Hours 
Mon.-Thur.: 7:30 a.m.-Midnight 
Fri.: 7:30 a.m.-7:00p.m. 
Sat.: Noon-6:00p.m. 
Sun.: Noon-Midnight 
(closed home football Sat.'s) 
Phone 631-COPY 
Ever Dreamed of Your Own Business? TASP International seeks students for next summer who want entre­preneurial and management experi­ence. Positive attitude a must. Full training. Earn $8K to $10K. CALL 1­800-543-3792. 
ILOST & FOUND I 
FOUND FOUND FOUND Did you lose your NO umbrella at the library Sun. nite (1 0/26)? I have it. Call Mary Beth @x2510. FOUND FOUND FOUND 
Lost: Set of Keys With Chrysler Remote 4-4982 
LOST -ROOM KEY -#406. CALL 
JILL 4-3196. 
LOST: Martial arts letter jacket at senior bar. Call x4969 or return to the bar. Reward for info or return of jacket. 


WANTED 
Gold!! Wanted reps.. unlimited 
earning potential!! 
616-461-6772. 
MODELS/DANCERS WANTED please call 219-271-0633 

NO Prof. needs babysitter for infant next semester TfTh: 11 :30-3:30; MWF flexible. Call Dr. Braungart­Rieker: 631-6914 (office); 233-1268(home). 
...EARN FREE TRIPS & CASH... CLASS TRAVEL needs students to promote Spring Break 1998! Sell15 trips & travel free! Highly motivated students can earn a free trip & over $10,000! Choose Cancun, Bahamas, Mazatlan, Jamaica or Florida! North America's largest stu­dent tour operator! Call Now! 1-800­838-6411 
..Spring Break ... "Take 2".. Hiring Reps! Sell15 .. Take 2 Free. Hot destinations! Free Parties, Eats, Drinks. SunSplash 1-800-426­771 0/www .sunsplashtours.com 

LFORREN~ 
WALK TO CAMPUS 2-5 BEDROOM HOMES $195/PERSON 232-2595 

HOUSE FOR RENT. FALL 98. 4/5 BR. 1 BATH. WASH/DRY. DISHWASHER. DISPOSAL. FRIDGE. NEW GAS FURNACE. 2 BLOCKS FROM NO. HAS SECU­RITY SYSTEM. 289-4712 
Looking to move off campus? 

Subletting space in Turtle Creek ­
Call Meghan 243-7894 

ROOMS IN PRIVATE HOME FOR 
FOOTBALL WEEKENDS AND 
OTHER ND-SMC EVENTS. 

VERY CLOSE TO CAMPUS -5 
MIN. DRIVE OR 15-20 MIN. WALK. 
243-0658. 

THAT PRETIY PLACE, Bed and Breakfast Inn has space available for football/parent wknds. 5 Rooms with private baths, $70-$90. 
Middlebury, 30 miles from campus. Toll Road, Exit #107, 1-800-418-9487. 
1,2 & 3 BDRM HOMES.GILLIS PROPERTIES . 
272-6551 
6 BDRM HOME NEXT FALL.272­6551 

FOR SALE 
Brass bed, queen size with orthope­dic mattress set and frame. New, never used, still in plastic. $250.00 219-862-2082. 
MAC· 12MB, CD-ROM, color moni­tor, printer. fax/modem, $750, 4­4322 
Take my beloved chairs! 2 comfort­able chairs, $50/pr or $30 each X1904 
Brand New Computers ­200M Hz, 32 MB RAM, 33.6k 
modem, 1.6 GB hard drive, 20X 
CD-ROM, Sound Card. 60W 
speakers, 14" monitor. 
$1250 + shipping. 
Call Julie at (970) 221-0494 
'87 BMW 325, 6CYL,5SPD,EXC., 
COND.-MECH. & BODY. $5750. 
291-8361 (LV.MSG.) 

TICKETS 
Wanted: Individual wants tickets for LSU/Notre Dame Game. Will pay cash. Phone (318)752-1208 or (318)747-8820. 
NO VS.W. VA TIX FOR SALE 273-3911 LEAVE MESSAGE 
4 GA's W. Virginia 4sale Best Offer 44982 
++++++++++++++++ 
For Sale: 2 West Virginia student tickets (not GA's) call Jenny @ 687-8435 
++++++++++++++++ 
ALUMNI DESPARATE for W Virginia tix (2-4). Carrie (713)526-6393/(713)753-5324 
NOTRE DAME FOOTBALL TICKETS BUY -SELL -TRADE 
232-0058 
CONFIDENTIAL TICKET-MART, INC. 
BUY/SELL NO SEASON AND INDI­VIDUAL GAME TICKETS. 674-7645. 
NO FOOTBALL TICKETS FOR SALE DAYTIME#: 232-2378 EVENING #: 288-2726 LOW PRICES 
FOR SALE 
N.D. G.A.'S 
271-9412. 
WANTED N D G A'S TO ALL HOME GAMES 271 1526 
We NEED 2 GA's for WV lv. msg. (800)321-4110x10986 

PERSONAL 
000 Looking for a unique gift? Bring in your favorite pictures and we'll create a personalized COLOR COPY CALENDAR!!! 
THE COPY SHOP LaFortune Student Center 
BEN FOLDS FIVE are coming in concert to Stepan Nov. 18!! Check out this night of incredible music just for the sound of it! Tix at La Funk info desk $9 for NO, SMC, HCC students, $12 for public. 
Michiana Paintball at Scottsdale Mall. Now open for indoor/outdoor play. Students w/ND-SMC ID-1/2 price field fee. 291-2540. 
What is a win/win situation for NO and BC? Fr. Michael Himes! Come to hear this dynamic speaker talk on decision-making. Tuesday, Nov.4, 2-3:15 in the chapel of Keenan Hall. 
mark is a cool T A, but i think that he sold his soul to the devil inorder to become a unix god. 
nothing important ever happens on 
the 4th of novemebr 
Bodrain player looking to form Celtic band-if you play fiddle, flute, 
etc. call Dan x3652 
it is time to act and act now. i'm leaving -if you know what movie that's from call 4-0605 and ask for the panther. he doesn't know either. 
so susie, finally got a conversation with him, go you 
ADOPTION Happily married couple with lots of love to share with new­born. Can help with doctor bills. Please, call 1-800-484-6399 X2706. 
000 THE COPY SHOP 000 
LaFortune Student Center ..; High-Speed Copies v Canon Color Laser Copies ..: Digital Color Printing 
..; Binding & Laminating ,J Public Fax SeNice 631-FAXl Phone. 631-COPY 
So Ton, you just can't win, huh ... 
maybe it's a performance problem 
Hi, B-Bear... 
you know I'm going to have to write these for you two for the rest of my life... 
this is making up for the lack of ref­erence to you two yesterday 
i think you're spoiled now ... 
I'm not done and I won't be till my 
head falls off. 
Though that may not be along way off. 
I'm not done talking. 
Doo doo doo doo 
I see the broken figure silohouetted on the wall. 
howdy howdyhowdy howdyhowdy howdyhowdy howdyhowdy howdy­howdy howdyhowdy howdy hi. 
Good luck Mike! 
Tell me how can I sing like agirl and not be objectified as if I was a girl 



Tuesday, November 4, 1997 The Observer • SPORTS page 13 
• NYC MtU\ATHON 



Allegations surround Rochat-Moser's victory 
By BERT ROSENTHAL 
Associated Press Writer 
NEW YORK 

The dispute surrounding Franziska Rochat-Moser's vic­tory in the New York City Marathon evaporated Monday like water on the pavement. 
It did, however, leave her bitter. 
"It hurts ... to be accused like this," she said. "I feel accused, but I don't feel guilty." 
The brouhaha developed Sunday when Kim Jones, the sixth-place finisher, contended that some of the top runners -including Rochat-Moser -

UaBAM PLUNGE 
Applications are DUE 

were aided by other competi­tors, friends or spectators who provided them with fluids at water stations during the race. 
International rules once banned such assistance, and violators were subject to dis­qualification. But the rule has been so difficult to enforce that is generally has been overlooked unless the violation is flagrant or continual. 
Race director Allan Steinfeld assured Rochat-Moser that her victory was safe and she would not be subject to dis­qualification. 
"You have a clean bill of health from me," Steinfeld told the Swiss woman. ''I'm 

the director of the race. Don't worry about it." 
Steinfeld added, "No one takes this rule seriously ... unless the individual does it every mile." 
Steinfeld said he had reviewed tapes of the race, concentrating on the water stops and did not see anything that merited disqualification of Rochat-Moser or any other runner. 
Still, Rochat-Moser, a 31­year-old nonpracticing lawyer, thought the hubbub tainted her victory. 
"All this controversy is a lit­tle ridiculous," she said. "It seems like she (Jones) gets like 



Today, Tuesday, November 4, 1997 For time and location of meeting, call: l-8041 NDLGS Group Advisors: Fr. Tom Gaughan, C.S.C 
Sr.Mary Louise Gude, C.S.C. 
All Meetings are private and confidential. 
this. She had time to make a protest and she didn't. I don't know why she did it (complain originally). The only thing I did was to take a sponge from another runner. It's not true that I was handed my water. I took the bottle myself from my spot on the table." 
Jones' 24 hours to file a protest expired Monday. 
"Yesterday was my day and I would like to leave it my day," Rochat-Moser said. ''I'm not the only one she accused. You either have to protest or shut up. She· was not two sec­onds behind me. She was about four minutes behind. A bottle of water is not four min­utes." 
In addition to the water bot­tle fuss, Rochat-Moser was disturbed by charges she was improperly aided by her coach, Richard Omberg, who was shouting instructions to her along the course. 
"The only thing my coach did was to encourage me," Rochat-Moser said. "If that's not allowed, I will give up run­ning marathons in the United States." 
The Saint Marys College Department ofMusic corrlially invites you to atterul the 25th annual 
;ffmabrtgal JJBtnners 
Please join us in Regina Hall 
for dirmer and entertainment, 
Friday, Saturday and Sunday Decemberfifth, sixth and seventh at 7p.m each evening plus a matinee on Sunday at 2 p.m 
Advance reseiVations required, $25.00 per person 
Tzckets on sale at the Saint Marys box office, located in 0 'Laughlin Auditorium, 9-5 Monday-Friday. 219/284-4778 Discover; full, MasterCard accepted 


The Alumni-Senior Club welcomes: 
Tsunami 
Wednesday Night! 

As always, $2 All-U-Can-Eat Wings!!! Cover: $2 -members, $5 -nonmembers 
This was her third marathon in the United States, and her first victory. Her other two appearances were at Boston, where she finished fourth in 1995 and sixth in 1996. She said the Boston course was easier to run but preferred competing in New York because of the huge crowds lining the 26-mile, 385-yard course throughout the city's five boroughs. 
Rochat-Moser finished in 2 hours, 28 minutes, 43 seconds, the slowest winning time since 1990. 
The men's winner, John Kagwe of Kenya, was clocked in 2:08:12, only 11 seconds off the race record of 2:08:01 by Juma Ikangaa of Tanzania in 1989. Kagwe was forced to stop and tie his shoelaces twice and run the last four miles with a flapping shoelace. 
"If I had pushed a little harder, I could have broken it.". Kagwe said Monday, "but that's OK." 
Steinfeld said a record 31,400 runners started the race and a record 30,332 fin­ished. 
-e.­
SAINT 
MARY'S 
COLLEGE 
NOTR.B DAME, IN 

page 14 The Observer· SPORTS Tuesday, November 4, 1997 
•NBA 

Shaq's slap spawns 
Bulls outlast Spurs, 87-83 
Associated Press extra period gave the Bulls seconds left gave the Spurs a an 85-82 lead and his free 73-70 lead. 
1-game suspension 
Associated Press 
LOS ANGELES 
Shaquille O'Neal was suspend­ed for one game and also fmed $10,000 by the NBA on Monday for slapping Utah center Greg Ostertag before their teams' sea­son opener last week. 
The total tab for the slap will be steep, costing O'Neal the fme plus one game's pay -$156,794 -he won't receive because of the suspension. 
O'Neal apologized to Ostertag earlier in the day, admitting he had failed to set a good example for young people. 
"I hope he accepts my apolo­gy and that he and I can put behind us any bad feelings," he said in a statement. 
"I made a mistake. Instead of focusing upon what is best for the team, I got caught up in the drama of the season's first game and reacted emotionally instead of logically," said O'Neal, who was to miss Tuesday night's game at Sacramento. 
Ostertag, in Salt Lake City for Utah's game Monday night against Washington, refused comment despite repeated ques­tions from reporters prior to the game. 
The 7 -foot-1 O'Neal slapped Ostertag near the court at the Forum in Inglewood on Friday, knocking him to the floor. The Jazz were leaving the court after a pregame shoot-around and the Lakers were preparing to take the court. 

The 7-2 Ostertag was not hurt and went on to play, scoring two points in the Jazz's104-87loss to the Lakers. O'Neal was recuper­ating from an abdominal muscle injury and didn't play. 
O'Neal didn't say what prompted the outburst, but there had been bad blood between the players. They were matched up last season in the Western Conference semifinals, won by Utah. 
O'Neal also apologized to his team, specifically to owner Jerry Buss and executive vice presi­dent Jerry West, and to fans. 
"I acknowledge my responsi­bility to set a good example for young people and I admit that in this instance, I did not do so," O'Neal said. "I ask those young people not to emulate my con­duct here because there is no excuse to engage in physical confrontation. 
"I always tell kids to follow their dreams but I should add that it is important to learn from your mistakes and prepare your­self so that they will not happen again." 

The Universitv. of Notre Dame International Study Program at 

Notre Dame Australia 
Information Meeting With Professor Michael Etzel Fr. Wilson Miscamhle, C.S.C. 
Professor Clive Neal 

Tuesday, November 4, 1997 102 DeBartolo 4:45-5:45 PM 
APPLICATION DEADLINE FALL 1998, SPRING 1999: DECEMBER 1. 1997 
CHICAGO 

Michael Jordan rescued the Chicago Bulls again Monday night. 
He hit a 3-pointer to force overtime, made a tying 
jumper in the first overtime and scored three of Chicago's final four points in the second extra period as the 

Bulls outlast-Rodman ed the San Antonio Spurs 87-83. 
Jordan, who shot just 12-of­39, finished with 29 points and 13 rebounds. Dennis Rodman had 22 rebounds for the Bulls. 
San Antonio's David Robinson scored 21 points with 12 rebounds and rookie Tim Duncan added 19 points and matched Rodman with 22 rebounds. 
Jordan's jumper with 31 seconds left in the second 
throw with 11.5 seconds left made it a four-point game. San Antonio's Jaren Jackson and Chicago's Joe Kleine traded free throws in the closing seconds. 
Chicago led by four in the second overtime but Robinson dunked, and Rodman drew a technical foul for lowering his shoulder into his former teammate on the play. Jackson's free throw cut the lead to one with 2:14 remaining. 
The Spurs had a chance for the lead but Jordan made a steal and Rodman and RonHarper grabbed offensive rebounds as the Bulls kept the ball before Jordan scored again for an 85-82 lead. 
In the first overtime, Jordan hit a high-arching 16-footer that made it 79-79 with 21.8 seconds left and San Antonio's Avery Johnson missed a runner with less than a second to go. 
In regulation, Johnson's two free throws with 16.8 
After a timeout, Jordan's first 3-point attempt was blocked but he rebounded and the Bulls got the ball to Toni Kukoc, whose 3-point attempt hit the front of the rim. The ball pinballed to Luc Longley, who got it back to Jordan and he connected at the buzzer to force overtime. 
Jordan hit his first three shots in the second half, had a pair of dunks and then stole an inbounds pass and hit a game-tying jumper to com­plete a 13-3 run that brought the Bulls back from a 10­point halftime deficit. 
Jordan, just 2-of-9 at the half, scored 12 to spark a 13­3 third-quarter run as the Bulls rallied from 10 down at the half. 
During the Bulls' third­quarter spurt, the Spurs lost guard Vinny Del Negro, who limped off the court after he jumped in the air and came down awkwardly on his right ankle. 

AT&T Summer Internship Program 
Why an AT&T Internship? 
• 
Internal exposure to the global leader in the telecommunications industry 

• 
First consideration for AT&T's Financial Leadership Program (FLP) 


• Structured program that includes:  
Professional Development Seminars  Senior Management Presentations  
Formal Objectives and Appraisals  Networking Events  
Social Gatherings  Community Service Projects  
• Challenging assignments  
• Experience in a Fortune 500 Corporation  

Job Description 
Requirements Location 

-
-
AT&T When 
-
-
Entry-level management positions Project & team oriented assignments Well defined goals and objectives 
Junior Accounting & Finance Majors Overall GPA of 3.5+ preferred; 3.0 minimum 
Majority of positions in New Jersey (Housing Assistance Available) 
On Campus Interviews are Tuesday December 2nd at Career & Placement Resume drop is Monday & Tuesday, November 3rd & 4th at Career & Placement 



Organizational meeting 
7:00 to-~itj'h,t 0 '8tt,A-Utj'h,~e-jj1 
..._.........,...,._) 

G~e-A-t deA-tt 
aid underresourced neighborhoods ·Provides an opportunity for service in various 
educational arenas ·Emphasizes group reflections and prayer ·Earn one credit hour 

For additional information please contact Jennifer Weigel 243-2656 Christine Haley 243-8262 
Tuesday, November 4, 1997 The Observer· SPORTS page 15 
• SAINT MARY'S CROSS COUNTRY 
Belles place sixth at Olivet College 
By MOLLY MCVOY 
SpomWriter 
Saint Mary's cross-country team pulled together on Saturday and placed sixth at its second conference meet at Olivet College. The Belles beat Adrienne College, Defiance College, and Olivet College. 
Calvin College won the meet with 31 points with Hope College and Albion College coming in second and third, rcspnctively. 
Both the runners and coach Jim Trautmann felt this was the first meet where everyone pulled together and ran as a team. 
.. It was a breakthrough race for us. We ran extremely well, and it all just came together," says Coach Trautmann of Saturday's race. 
In their first conference meet they also placed sixth, but Saturday's race was a tremendous improvement from the first conference mflet. Instead of being 31 points behind the team ahead of them, as they were in September. Saint Mary's fin­ished a mere 19 points behind first place Calvin College. 
Saint Mary's has a regional meet on Saturday, Nov. 15 against all of the division three teams in Ohio, Indiana and Michigan. Coach Trautmann has high hopes for that meet and thinks the team can place even higher than on Saturday. 
Individually, freshman Genny Yavello was Saint Mary's top finisher, placing 15th with a time of 19:16. Carrie Ferkenhoff (31st), Katie Hummer (41st), Kelli Steenwyk (53rd) and Angie Little (56th) were Saint Mary's other top tinishers. Both Hummflr and Ferkenhoff had their best race of the season, dropping nearly a minute offtheir times. 
Yavello could not be happier with the Belles performance, "It was definitely the best race of the year. We had some fans there to cheer for us, and it was the first and only time the whole team could run togeth­er. We put all that together and ran really well." 
"I think, overall, my team did really well," Hummer said. "We made huge improve­ments. It finally came togeth­er-we were a team. As a first year team, we didn't really know each other, but we pulled together as a team on Saturday." 
With the improved finish at Olivet College, the Belles look to continue bettering their times, as the regional meet rapidly approaches. 

LASALLE BOOKSTORE 
Your source for the best in theological and philosophical books-we can special order any book you need! 
Anniversary Sale! 
20% OFF ALL BOOKS NOVEMBER 3-7 
THE lASALLE BOOKSTORE • 234-0003 237 N. Michigan St., downtown South Bend (at the corner of Michigan and LaSalle Sts.) Open 10-5, Monday-Friday, parking due south 
Soccer 
continued from page 20 
the Belles as they only won one of their first nine games. However, midway through the season the Belles experienced a turning point. 
"Halfway through the season, everyone's injuries began to heal, and we had a healthy team which made a big difference," said Sharp. 
Both offensively and defen­sively, the Belles were able to make improvements that helped add more wins to the Belles' record. 
"Offensively, we worked on our passing game in practice, and because of this, our ball movement improved throughout the season," said senior Debbie Diemer. "As the season went on we built up more confidence together because we were able to pass and communicate better. The people in the middle, junior Katie Wagner and sophomore Mary Woodka, deserve a lot of credit because they did a good job of covering each other throughout the season." 
"Defensively, things began to dick after awhile. Everyone got used to the playing style of the sweeper (Sullivan) which helped us step up our defense," said Sullivan. 
Another factor that con­tributed to the Belles' improve­ment this season was reaching some of the goals they set at the beginning of the season. 
"At the end of the season, we were able to improve our short game," said Newell. "We were also able to decrease the num­ber of corner kicks we allowed the other team." 
Although the Belles may not be happy with their final record, they could not have asked for a better end to their season. 
We finished the season strong. We won our last two games, and Eileen broke the school record for most goals in a season," said Sharp. "Also, our inexperienced players did an excellent job in gaining knowledge about the game throughout the season. Although our record is not great, it was great for the seniors to finish on a positive note." 
By scoring her 16th goal of the year, Newell surpasses Megan Dalsaso's 1992 record for goals in a single season. 
"For me to break this record shows how good our team is. I cannot score_ by myself. There were many people who helped get the ball up the field so I could score," said Newell. "On a individual level, this new record is a great capping stone to my career." 
Newell feels that many players on the team deserve credit for their outstanding play this sea­son. 
"Debbie Diemer had a great year at forward. ·She had an incredible year with all her assists," said Newell. "The defense also deserves a lot of credit. Keary Sullivan is a great stopper, and she always demon­strated her skills and experi­ence. Jo Wagner is an outstand­ing goalie, and the team is fortu­nate to have her. She always stuck in there during those one­sided games." · 
Looking ahead to next year, Sharp and the team are going to miss the three seniors. 
"All three [Diemer, Newell, and Sullivan] were knowledge­able players. Two of them were all-conference in high school. It is going to be hard to pick up all-conference p'layers out of high school next year'" said Sharp. "My goal is to have 2D incoming freshmen try out neat season. As for the off season, I'm going to encourage the team to play in winter indoor leagues and summer leagues." 
It is hard to characterize this up and down season for the Belles, but Newell said it best. 
"It was a maturing season. We came together as friends quick­ly, and we grew as soccer play­ers on the field throughout the season," said Newell. 
V-ball 
continued from page 20 
which played the murderous hand in their own demise. 
"We relied too heavily on cer­tain setters at one time," Joyce said. 
Calvin, who finished third overall, easily keyed in on the weakness and defeated the Belles 15-5, 15-7, 15-13. 
However, Joyce learns from her mistakes. 
"I pulled my setters [Ashley Uebelhor and Megan Jardina] aside and told them to equally distribute their sets," she said. 
Her strategy proved the per­fect antidote as the Belles shut down Olivet 3-0. By substituting Megan Shea as outside hitter along with Meg Kelly's 17 digs, Saint Mary's proved the domi­nant team 15-11, 16-14, 15-7. 
After a day of rest, the Belles came with game faces on for their final day of this season's volleyball. Bringing Alma College to its knees for the third time this season, Saint Mary's won 15-10, 11-15, 15-7, 15-4. 
Defense won the game for the Belles. Meg Kelly contributed with 21 digs along with Agnes Bill's 22 digs. Connolly, kill leader, and Rodovich controlled the offense, accumulating 29 kills. However, the Belles ended their season with a 13-15, 3-15, 8-15, 3-15loss to Aquinas. 
Although Rodovich and Bill each piled on 24 service points, Aquinas' strong offense boasting a 6'5" outside hitter could not be subdued. Aquinas finished fifth in the tournament. 
Despite its 14-16 season record, the young Saint Mary's team already has its sights set on next year. 
Recruitment and the fitness of returners will determine the future of Saint Mary's volleyball and perhaps a winning record. 
"In one phrase, I'd say our season has been a stepping stone," Joyce said. 




page 16 
RESULTS 
Walsh def. Off-Campus (18-0) 
Pasquerilla East def. Cavanaugh (18-0) 
Lewis def. Pasquerilla West (13-6) 
Pyros shut out Chaos, 
18-0 
By ALISON WELTNER Sports Writer 
Pasquerilla East defeated Cavanaugh 18-0 in the first round of women's interhall football playoffs on Sunday. The win puts the first place Pyros one step closer to their dream of another game in the stadium. 
"I think our game was very good," Pyro's quarterback Elizabeth Plummer said. "Because of the break, we hadn't been in a game situation for a while, but this victory proved that wasn't a problem. We quickly got our funda­mental" back and came out ahead." 
Plummer's accuracy in passing enabled the team to gain yardage. Speed, another one of her fortes, allowed her to run the ball whenever passing was not an option. 
"[Cavanaugh defense] set a lot of people back which gave me room to run," Plummer commented. "The quarterback keepers weren't always planned but when it was there as a possibility it worked well." 
Cavanaugh had possession to start the game but could only make one first down. P.E.'s offense then started a strong campaign composed mostly of rwtS by Plummer. The Chaos' defense managed to defend the goal line and prevent scoring. When the Chaos regained possession, however, they were again unable to score. 
On P.E.'s next series, an option, a 25­yard pass to Molly Host, a quarterback run. and a pass to Ann Searle resulted in the first touchdown of the game. Cavanaugh prevented the two point conversion and the score stood 6-0. 
After achieving a first down, a Cavanaugh pass was intercepted by Alison Healy, and the Pyros started another successful series. Host played a major role in this success, catching four passes. the last of which gave P.E. a second touchdown. This time trying for only one extra point, Cavanaugh's Hunter Campaigne blocked the pass. 
Cavanaugh's final possession started out well. A pass to Kristin Patrick gave them a first down, but then movement started to slow. On fourth and long, the team was forced to attempt a long pass, but excellent coverage by Pyro Donata Parillo prevented its comple­tion. The Pyros took over on downs 24 yard from the goal, and after several plays Searle scored a third touchdown for the team. 
Although disappointed with the loss, Cavanaugh's players and coaches accentuated the positive aspects of their season which include having made the playoffs for the first time in the team's history. 
"We played really tough today, and 
we're proud of the girls," said 
Cavanaugh coach Jay DeCoons. "I 
think the defense did a good job, even 
though the score might not reflect it. 
Our season as a whole had ups and 
downs. but we always battled back. As 
coaches we loved working with these 
girls." 

The Observer· SPORTS Tuesday, November 4, 1997 
Women SInterhall 
Sunday's winners advance to the semi finals of the interhall playoffs. The winners will proceed to the finals which in the past have been held at Notre Dame Stadium. 
-~-


-----~---~­
Tuesday, November 4, 1997 
Fumbles foil Zahmbies chances 
By PAUL DIAMANTOPOULOS Sports Writer 
Just like the United States Post Office does not let the weather stop it from dfllivering the mail, number right sPed Morrissey did not let the weather hinder tllPm from advanc­ing to the second round of the play­o!Ts over number one ranked Zahm. 
Morrissey (3-2) defeated the Zahmbies 6-0 on Sunday, despite facing strong winds with intermit­tent rain and going into the game as underdogs. 
According to Manor quarterback Dan Sullivan, Morrissey treated the game as they have every game. "Going into the game, we focused on what we had to do. We knew they were a good team, but we didn't change our game plan at all for them or the weather," said Sullivan. 
Morrissey came out strong offen­siwly in the first half, but like Zahm was unable to put any points on the board. 
For Zahm, its offense finally start­ing clicking in the second half, only to have two potential scoring drives disrupted by fumbles. Zahm half­back Liam Knott credited the Morrissey defense for being very well preparPd in disrupting the ZahmhiPs' offensive flow. 
"We had been good about turnovers in our previous games, but they were able to gPt a lot of pressure on our quarterback. We had a fundamental breakdown that didn't allow us to establish a ground 
The Observer • SPORTS 
The Observer/John Daily 

The third Zahm fumble set up Morrissey's only scoring drive of the game. 
game," commented Knott about the frustration the Morrissey defense caused the Zahm offense. 
Zahm's third fumble of the game proved costly for them as the Manor took over on Zahm's 24-yard line. Four plays later, Sullivan broke the scoreless tie on a quarterback keep­er from six yards out. 
While turnovers plagued Zahm's efforts to win. Morrissey had its own problems with penalties. On two occasions, passing touchdowns were brought baek due to penalties. 
"It was very frustrating not being able to put any points on the board after making some big plays, but we sent a message to Zahm that we could score. We knew what we were doing early," stated Sullivan of the 35 and 45-yard touchdown passes to wide receiver James Piatt that did not count. 
When the game finally ended, Morrissey players and fans littered the field, as they celebrated their hard-fought victory. "We were all so ecstatic and proud that we were able to play our best and win," said Sullivan. 
page 17 
RESULTS Morrissey def. 
Zahm (7-0) 
Keenan def. Siegfried 
(27-0) 
Sorin def. Knott 
Keough def. Dillon 
(7-0) 
Knights shutout Ramblers 
By ANTHONY BIANCO Spons Writer 
The Knights of Keenan Hall rode into the first week of the playoffs with the same confidence and dominance they exhibited throughout the season as they shutout the Siegfried Ramblers by a score of 27-0 last Sunday. 
Deferring the coin toss to the second half, Keenan's defense made quick work of the Ramblers offense, taking the ball after just four downs. The Knights opened up the scoring with a Nick Costanzo carry from midfield on just their second offensive play. Dong Min ran in the two-point conversion to give them the lead that they never gave up. 
The passing game came often and early as Keenan's offense dominated game play. The freshmen pairing of quarterback Craig Venvertloh and split end Nelson Rivera connected for the touchdown and a 14-0 lead. 
The second half saw more of the same, as Venvertloh again connected with Rivera for a touchdown reception. The Knights got the PAT with the Steve 

Otter's defense silences Juggerknotts 

By PAUL DIAMANTOPOULOS 
Sports Writer 
Those who braved the cold weather and made their way out to Stepan l~ield on Sunday enjoyed a great struggle between Knott and Sorin that was ultimately decided in the final minute of the game. 
The first half was characterized by several unsuccessful drives that never produced points for either team. 
According to Knott wide receiver Dan Zack. the offense had many opportunities but could not put anything together. "Our pass blocking was really good, however, penalties hurt us when we had a chance to score," commented Zack. 
Sarin's offense was able to make an impact in the second half when runningback Tim Slattery broke free on an off-tackle run for a 25­yard gain. Quarterback Pete Belden was then able to finish the drive with a touchdown run from tllP two-yard line for the first score of the game. 
"After the first half, we ISorin] made several adjustments to com­pensate for our sloppy play. Knott was blitzing a lot, and that didn't allow us to get the running or passing game established," said center Jim Walsh. 
Knott appeared to finally put everything together offensively, as they worked on their final drive late in the fourth quarter. They methodically moved the ball down the field, mixing it up with running and passing plays. 
Finally, with a minute to go in the game Zack caught a 38-yard pass and was hit just short of the goal line. With first and goal from inside thH one-yard line. Knott was unable to score off a quarterback and two off-tackle running plays. 
Facing fourth down and the game, the Sorin defense stepped up and broke up Knott's quick pass attempt to preserve the shutout a,nd advan(~e to the second round of the playoffs. 
"If you can't get in the end zone from the half yard line, you don't deserve the win," said Zack about the final series of the game. 
The ObServer/John Dally 

Sarin's defense proved too strong for Knott. 
Allen kick to bring the score to 21-0. 
Venvertloh would connect with Andy Weis in the fourth for his third touch­down pass on the day. 
"We started with a strong ground attack, and that allowed us to quickly open up the passing game," stated Venvertloh. "Especially with the strength of the line, we had that option all day. I was lucky not only today but all season to have such a great corps of receivers to pass to." 
Keenan continued its domination on the defensive side of the ball, allowing only four first downs, three of them coming on one second-half scoring drive. 
"They pushed their way to about our 30 yard-line before we buckled down and stopped them," commented Costanzo. 
In addition to the opening touchdown carry, Costanzo added a fourth quarter interception to his day. The Knights defense finished with two interceptions in the game, the other also in the fourth 
· by Dong Min. 
"Siegfried had a couple of plays that worked, but they couldn't and we wouldn't let them put together any­thing," said Keenan captain D.J. Hartman. 
Keenan will face Keough in the next round of the playoffs. Venvertloh com­mented, "although we beat them in the regular season, that means nothing now in the playoffs." 

page 18 

The Observer • SPORTS 
.. ­
-~---------­
Tuesday, November 4, 1997 
• INTERHAll rOtHBAlt 
Keough dashes Dillon's dreams 


The Observer/Joe Stark 
In Sunday's interhall playoffs, the Keenan Knights advanced easily over the Siegfried Ramblers 27-0. 

The fourth-ranked Sorin Otters knocked the Knott Juggerknotts out of the playoffs. 
·_ iSs'-· , u,;;~·~~,:'~-i)\.'·· •••,. ;!lEY''
···::, ae omorrow s Observer for mora intarhall football coverage, 
MEN IN BLACK 7f/~ aJte ~? 7f/Wu~~? 

~. fk-~. e.s.e. ~. ?lilt 'Uiad. e.s.e. 
?(1/f. IHMe ~(IH. ~ 

~4~fJ4U-~~~~ ~s~ • ~ z:>-.e. 1~ 46556 
(219) 631-638'5 • Mtp:/l~.d.e<k/-~-
ANSWER-qfp" 
THECALLW 
By BRIAN KESSLER Sports Writer 
Most football <tnalysts will tell you that it is hard to beat a team twice in thA same year. The underdog sixth ranked Keough Kangaroos (2-2) had nothing to lose when it faced No. 3 seed Dillon Big !led (3-0-1) in first round playoff action. Keough was on tho losing half of the 14-7 game with Dillon during week three of the regular season, but hoped to avenge that loss and avoid elimina­tion from the playoffs. 
The lirst half was a defen­sive battle. Both squads refused to budge, and tho result was a scoreless tie at thP Pnd of the half. 
Keough turned the ball over once, but the 'Roos "D" was able to stop the Big Bed on fourth down and the ball wcmt back to Keough. 
Neither offense seemed to be in sync, and neither was able to put together a solid drive. 
At tho end of the half, Dillon had the ball and was apparently content on run-· ning out the clock. On the last play of the half, Dillon ran a draw play that sur­prised the Keough defense. The running back broke free into the 'Hoos secondary and appeared to be headed toward the endzone, but was tripped up by one of the Keough linebackers on the two-yard line. The play cov­ered about 50 yards and was an excitPd end to a rather dull first half. 
The third quarter was simi-


lar to the first half. with both teams exchanging punts. However, at the start of the fourth quarter, Dillon had the ball at their own 25-yard line. The Big Red ran a screen pass out in the flat that was well defended by Keough. 
Freshman linebacker Mike Celenka stripped the ball from the Dillon player and returned it 25-yards for the game's only touchdown. Casey Bouton added the extra point, and Keough led 7-0. 
The 'Roos won the game by that score, but not without a late scare from Dillon. The Big .Red would not go away that easily. They went bark to what worked for them in the first half the draw play. It worked for a 40-yard gain, bringing the ball down to the 20-yard line. 
They converted on a fourth and five taking the ball to the six. The game camP. down to a fourth and goal from the live. Dillon ran a fade to the corner of the endzono, but cornerback Dan Strobel knocked down the pass and Keough only had to kneel down once to preserve the 7­0 victory. 
Keough will now face No. 2 Keenan this Sunday. Keough also lost to Keenan during the regular season, but it hopes that its victory over Dillon is just the first of a series of upsets that will take it to the championship. 
The 'Roos hope that it will be tough for Keenan to beat the same team twice, as Dillon found out this week­end. 

Tuesday, November 4, 1997 The Observer • TODAY page 19 
MEN ABOUT CAMPUS 
MOTHER GOOSE & GRIMM 
DILBERT 
WE. NEEO COBOL PROGRI\r"\MERS FOR E 
0 

OUR MAlNFRAME ~ r"\ILLENNIUI"\ PROBLEM. 'g
E 
u 
.2!
·c: 
:J 
~ 
;:: 

CROSSWORD 

Aries: From where you stand today, every direction looks uphill. Accept gravity as a fact of life, and waste as little energy as possible fighting against it. Determination alone will get you through this day. 
Taurus: Today you fmal­ly "get it," and your first impulse is to let everybody know. Taurus is especially earthy today, delighting in the feel of planetary move­ment through planted feet.

MIKE PETERS Tllis is an excellent day for planning ahead. 
Gemini: Be open today, even if those around you are determined to act secretly. If a candid obser­vation ruins your credibility in a certain situation, per­haps it's best that you're no longer involved. You do your best work alone. 
Cancer: You teeter between self-confidence and self-consciousness. You must take action or make a decision today. Be sure that others understand what you have to say to them. 
Leo: You may think you're God's gift to the world, but the world is pro­foundly uninterested today. Your value is measured by your actions. Open up and let someone else in. 
Virgo: Your job pays off in an unexpected way, whether a surprise bonus, an attractive new neighbor, or an inspiring moment of your commute. You are not a machine, but a living, feeling person. The world outside your daily life is a lovely place. 
• OF INTEREST 




A COBOL  PROGR~MI"\ER 1  
LET  ME KNOW.  

IF YOU SEE ANYONE E u WHO LOOK5 LIKE 
·--.

DAN SULLIVAN YOUR HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 
ACROSS 36Fiood 65 Gamblers' embankment mecca
1 Catherire who survived Henry 
37 Hi-jinks in a 66 This, in Mexico VIII 67 Polk's
stolen car 40 Determines predecessor5 Eden dweller limits in 68 Dutch cheese

9--ski 
advance 69 Bygone14 Theater award 42 Had title to Tunisian V.I.P.'s 

15 Timber wolf 43 Regarding
16 Fit to be tied 45 Realize 
17 Dieter's credo? DOWN
46 Dieter's credo? 19 One of Lear's 
so Calamity 1 Kind of beardaughters 51 Comic musical 2 Stand for20 French farewell work 3 Unbending 21 Program airing 55 Mt. Rainier's 4 Fix, as leftovers23 State of high site, with "the" 5 Draught, maybe alarm 59 "-Pretty" 6 Mafia boss

26 Praiseful poem (song for Maria) 1 Act of touching 
27 Dieter's credo? 60 Anticipate 32 Pitcher's pride 61 Dieter's credo? 
aWear a long face

35 First name in 64 It results from scat work well done 
9 Terrier type 10 Comes before -------------111ndian music 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE style 
-=o--:-r::::-r:::-~ 12 Greek H's ~':':+=~=-l 13 On its way, as a 
message 
1~mt~llil 18 Noted site of 
~ ancient Mexican ruins 

-:=:t'::'+.::-tii...,;~-t=-H 22 British john B-=+~-=+=~ .:,:+:..:..j.:;+:~IIIP!I~~R 24 Managed, with "out" 
~=+-±c+=-E-1 25 Take the reins again 

~~~··· 28 Portable PC···~~mE 29 Place to broil 

-=t=+:=+::-i 30 Lavish party 31 Suffix with gab or slug 

32"Get-" (1958 hit) 
33 English poet laureate Nicholas 
34 Popular pet bird 38 Killing of a king 39 Blind 
worshiper 41 Banned Pete 44 Stinko 47 Like the gray 
mare 48 Actor Estrada 
Libra: Dissatisfaction hangs like a limp gray cloud today. The haunting of old memories may be danger­ously distracting. Fix a problem at home before you end up inflicting your mood on the rest of the world. 
Scorpio: A long-debated contract is finally signed today. Everyone heaves a collective sigh or relief and moves on to the next phase of a project. This would be a timely opportunity to fill a leadership vacuum. 
Sagittarius: Bring a bag lunch today, and take busses and trains instead of taxis and limos. You find yourself judging others by the cut of their clothing. If others owe you money, this is a good day to collect it. 
Capricorn: Today finds you standing by your princi­ples and making them work for you. With the Moon in Capricorn's house, you can expect great successes for the next day or so. Work doen during this period will endure for years. 
Aquarius: You may have a difficult time keeping up with everyone else today. The patience of others only adds to your frustration. You could let yourself be confused, but it would be just as easy to try working it out. 
Pisces: If you want to 
help yourself today, the way 
to do it is by helping others. 
The more you do, the easier 
it gets. An altruistic gesture 
is noticed by someone in a 
position of power. 
Discernment with Fr. Michael Himes: 
Boston College theologian Michael Himes will speak on joy, growth, and agape as criteria for decision-making today from 2-3:15 p.m. in the chapel of Stanford-Keenan Hall. Father Himes taught at ND from 1987-1993. 
Mock Trial Club Organizational meeting tonight -Great Hall O'Shag. 
•MENU South
North 
Chicken Stew with
Chicken Stew with 
Biscuits
Biscuits 
Eggbeaters Garden
Grilled Bratwurst 
Quiche
Eggbeaters 
Grilled Bratwurst &
Garden Quiche 
Sauerkraut
Rotini Pasta Primavera 
Tater Tots
Hunan Sweet & 
Vegetable Stir-FrySour Chicken Tenders 

49 Officiated a 56 Not straight game 57 Leave dock 52 Rib 
58 To be, in 53 Irascible France 54 Choir voices 62 One-million link 
Wanted: Reporters, 

55 Nemo, e.g.: &3--de Abbr. guerre 
photographers and editors. 

Answers to any three clues in this puzzleare available by touch-tone phone: 
Join The Observer staff. 

1-900-420-5656 (75¢ per minute). Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Intramural Deadline~ 
Thursday, November 6th IH Basketball M&W Club Basketball G/F/S Basketball M&W IH Hockey G/F/S Hockey 



.... 

-------~ -~--------------------------~----­
SPORTS 
page 20 Tuesday, November 4, 1997 
• SAINT MARY'S SPORTS Belles overcome slow start with regular season finale By STEPHANIE VILLINSKI "It took awhile to get in shape, and I think that Sports Writer is where some of our injuries came from," said Sharp. It was how they always imagined it. The last The Belles also played some extremely com­game of the season and the team Diling on top of petitive teams which did not help them start off each other, celebrating an overtime victory and with many wins. a player's record-breaking season. "We played many high caliber teams. For The SMC soccer team (7 -13) felt this exhilara­example, Kalamazoo is ranked in the top 15 tion on Friday as it defeated .--lr.!'!r.llftS"!'t..., nationally, and teams such as Denison and Ohio Goshen College (12-5) by a Wesleyan are also tough teams," said senior score of 1-0 in overtime. • "BellesX­Eileen Newell. However, the Belles had to coumry places The Belles acquired a few new players this overcome a slow start to get sixth in confer-season. Therefore, at the beginning of the sea­this point. ence meet." son, they experimented moving around players "At the start of the season in different positions. p.lS many of the players were side­'--------' "On defense, we had five players who never lined with injuries," said Coach played together beforn," said senior Keary Robert Sharp. "It was also only my second year Sullivan. "As for the team, it took the new play­as head coach, and this is my first head coach­ers some adjusting to playing against better ing job, so I still have some inexperience." teams than they were used to." Although the team arrived back on campus The feeling of hitting rock bottom was felt by two weeks before classes began, it was not enough time to get everyone in shape. see SOCCER I page 1 5 The Observer/Manuela Hernandez With its win over Goshen College, Saint Mary's finished up the regular season with a record of 7-13  The Observer/Manuela Hernandez This weekend the Belles went 2-2 at the Midwest Invitational. Team takes sixth at Midwest Invitational By SHANNON RYAN Sports Writer Some may stamp 'mediocre' on the Belles volleyball season. Since Oct. 6, the Belles have lost a game for every win. They kept true to their back-and-forth tradition at the Midwest Invitational on Halloween weekend, finishing 2-2 and sixth out of 12 teams. But don't let them fool you. This was just how they wanted to finish. "We played incredible games," senior co-captain Betsy Connolly said about her last performance. "There were five ranked teams there, so playing at this level was great." Despite its deceiving rPcord. Saint Mary's played some of its best volleyball. It placed second among unranked teams, and Meg Kelly broke the season record for digs with 442. Connolly also finished her season second in career blocks. Host Calvin College played the best defensive performance Belles' coach Jennie Joyce had ever seen, leaving Saint Mary's with a qukk 0-3 loss. "They [Calvin] were digging for everything," Joyce said. "They were able to kef'p the ball in play while we were strug­gling to get a side-out." The Belles were unable to disguise their setting pattPrns which played the murderous hand in their own demise. see V-BALL I page 15  

• ;-, :. ":>W>·''fi' 

Victory against Ball State snaps losing streak 

The Observer/Rob Finch 
The men's swim team snapped its four-meet losing streak against Ball State. 
ByMATTYUNG Spons \X'riter 
Friday evening, tlw Irish swimnH~rs and divers snapped a four-ment losing streak against Ball State with a convinl'ing 144.5 to 9X.5 win. 
Notre Dame trailed aftl~r the first event, the 400-mmlley relay, but immediatdy rebound­nd in tlw 1000 freestyle. Frr.shman James Srott-Brownn st~t a new Irish record of 
9:35.93. beating the livn-ynar-old mark of 1):3(J. 75. 
"I didn't even know I broke the n~cord until Saturday morning when pnople wPre tl~lling nw," Browne said. "At tiH~ time we wr.rn just conn•rrwd with swimming the races and win­ning the mPet." 
Brown also finished first in tiHl 500 fnlnstyle and expects that his timllS will drop significantly. 
Junior Scott Zumback was the othr.r double winnPr with firsts in the 200 individual med­lr.y and the 200 butterfly, and sophomore Hay Fitzpatrick won tlw 200 freestylc in 1:45.22. 
Thc win came more easily than senior cap­tain Brian Najarian had expectl)d, "It was kind of surprising against Ball State. They usually show lots of spirit, hut they had a lot of freshmen without knowlr.dge of the tradi­tion. We got them down early and they fold-Pd; it lthr vic­tory I felt good." 
Sophumorr II e r b II uPsman fin­ished second and first in tlw onc­metnr and thrne-ml'tnr d i v i n g , respPctively, including two 7.0/7.5 sp!~C­tacular dives. 
This week­Pnd thP squad fa1·cs Hice and Texas 
HANDLING THE BALL 
Notre Dame 
144.5 
Ball State 
98.5 
Christi an at '---------------' Rice. Friday's meet against Hice will b1~ the first ever meeting between the teams, and Saturday's TCU mePt will be the third such mPeting, with TCU boasting a 2-0 lead. 
Najarian felt this week's meets will offer the Irish bettPr comp1itition, "I won't under­estimate Rice, but I think we will bPat them. I haven't seen Texas Christian since I was freshman, but I know they will be excellent. It will be a good meet." 


at LSU, vs. Bowling Green, 
lltllllllf

~ ,..
November 15, 3:30p.m. 
..."(. ~~ November 7, 7 p.m. 
Men's Swimming at Rice,
vs. Villanova at Rutgers, 
November 7, 6 p.m. 
November 7. 6 p.m. ..== See men's and women's 
~ 

Women's Swimming at Pitt,
at Seton Hall, 
interhall football playoff

• 
Q)

November 7, 6 p.m. ....,
November 9, 1 p.m. 
results on pages 16-18.

Swimming at Hope
vs. West Virginia, 
•
s~
November 7, 7 p.m. 4v November 8, l p.m. ~ 






