·~~-~--------------------------~-, 

Friday, November 7, 1997 • Vol. XXXI No. 49 THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
]N }J(/El\10RIAN1 mara fox 

C7\ ffilra was one of 1 V 1 the best people I ever knew.' 
Annual Fun Run honors Fox's life, dreams, spirit 
By LAURA PETELLE News Writer 
Tomorrow the Notre Dame community will remember Mara Fox, the Lyons Hall freshman who was struck and killed by a r.ar on Nov. 13, 1993. when Lyons hosts the fifth annual Mara Fox Fun Run. 
Fox, who would have graduated last year, was walking home from Macri's Deli with several friends when she was hit by the car. 
She was known to her friends for her fun-loving spirit and vivacity, according to Melissa Fruscione, Lyons Hall co-president. She was an honors student from Oakton, Va., planning to major in psychology and Spanish. She had hoped to study abroad in Toledo, Spain. 
"Mara's friends put together this run as a way to remember her fun-loving spirit and to support the survivors," said Fruscione. 
The Run also raises money for a scholar­ship in her name, which goes to a student studying abroad in the Toledo program. 
"It's really become a campus-wide event," said Kathy Bartniczak, Lyons Hall co-president. 
Students come to the Fun Run to run, walk, rollerblade or bike the two-mile route around campus. Some runners come to compete seriously, and some come to have fun, show their spirit or offer continu­ing support to Fox's family. 
"This year will be bigger and better than ever," said Bartniczak. "We're offering prizes for the first finishers and the most spirited runners." 
The support for the run within Lyons Hall has been tremendous, according to 
see FOX/ page 4 
• HOLOCAUST PROJECT 
FRIDAY FE:\ITRE 


BAD BOYS ~® C1®~®r3W 
Restraint out, rehabilitation in at South Bend facility 

By KRISTI KUTSCH News Writer 
Juvenile delinquent: two little words with large con­notations.
T h i s '._... ::~=-·,._"~·~~ 

term auto­
· • "ND stu­matically 
dents tutor 

generates 
. faciliry resi­

m a n y 
,dents" p.if,,,,

stereo­types, 

among them the image of a hardened criminal, and the teenage male gang-member South Bend Juvenile who is beyond the realm of Residential Facility holds the society's help and control. proof of that. 
But not everyone called a The building resembles an delinquent by the court is a old mysterious house, but its 

subject, according to historian Saul Friedlander. 
Friedlander, who spoke last night as part of the Notre Dame Holocaust Project's scholar-in­residence series, refuted a com­mon belief that this emergence is 
due to attention from the media and politicians. "The awareness of these 
extreme crimes after many years is not primarily a product of the media and the politics," Friedlander said. "Media and occupants are not a typical family. The facility harbors 36 male juvenile offenders, referred to the facility by the Indiana Department of Correction, and an array of correctional officers. But the South Bend facility differs profoundly from other facili­ties throughout the state in 

see FEATURE/ page 6 


'The majority of students 
return to school... Four or five students earned their GED this year,' 
Cecil Davis 

Pictured left, a student group tutors residents while a plainclothes guard looks on. Above, Melissa Maykuth and Megan Schiller converse with another resident. 

Friedlander: Stories show complex effects of Holocaust trauma 
By ERICA THESING with their stories to come forward. As a survivor, News Writer he includes himself in this group. "We have a pivotal position. After us, no one has The aging of the final generation of Holocaust a direct memory of these events," he said. survivors has spurred a renewed interest in the Immediately after the Holocaust, survivors were 
'Y·OU WILL NOTICE 
· ~. THAT WHAT REMAINS IN OUR MINDS IS THE STO­
RIFS OF INDIVIDUAlS. THE MILLIONS OF DEAD REMAIN 
AN ABSTRACT [IDEA] THAT CAN'T BE GRASPED.' 
SAUL FRIEDLANDER 
eager to forget the traumatic events and be integrated back 
into society, according to Friedlander. 
"We all felt that way. We never talked about the past except in small groups in Israel. No one in 
the surrounding community, even in Israel. wanted to hear about this," he said. 
Friedlander said the newest 
wave of memories, often mani­fested in memoirs and diaries of survivors, explains the complexi­
politics do not create the trend; they use it. They ty of Holocaust issues. 
exploit it, but they do not create it." "You will notice that what remains in our minds Instead, Friedlander feels that the last of the 
survivors are finally feeling comfortable enough see HOLOCAUST/ page 4 page 2 
• iNSIDE COlUMN 


I Don't Care 
Anymore 
I'm tired. 
I sometimes wish I had 
made a different choice 
about what university I 
chose to attend. I look 
around and see what this 
great university has been 
reduced to and wonder 
why anyone, including 
myself, would freely choose 
to endure its tortures. In Tom Rolandthe four years that I have 


Business Manager 
been at Notre Dame I 
have seen some pretty 

significant changes. and to be quite honest I 
can't say that many are for the better. 

I saw them tear down my community known 
as Grace Hall (as well as Flanner). I saw them 
veto the recognition of GLND/SMC. I saw them 
shoot down co-residency. I even saw them 
enlarge and further commercialize the stadi­
um. Notice that the first three things seem to 
signal a shift toward NO's traditional ways 
while the fourth seems to be saying the exact 
opposite (I believe this to be the truest defini­
tion of the word hypocrite). 

In the past few months I have seen other 
things that make me tired. I have seen racial 
tension in last spring's Bookstore Basketball 
tournament. I have seen tension between Saint 
Mary's and Notre Dame heightened. And I 
have seen tension over Dan Sullivan's comic. 
The sad part is I don't blame the students 
involved or the anger that they have; I blame 
"them." These tensions signify the insecurity 
cultivated by the apathy perpetuated by 
"them." 

Who might "them" be? "Them" is not just the 
administration or the student leaders; it's both. 
It's Student Affairs, it's student government. 
it's those people who make decisions and 
choices that lead nowhere and solve nothing. 
"Them" would be those in the CLC who 
spend hours deliberating over whether to 
accept The Observer's apology. I blame "them" 
who spend nearly a month bickering like 
babies over "Lee-gate." I blame "them" who 
spend hundreds of thousands to prevent people 
from driving on campus. What a waste! We are 
a product of this waste. 

Look at the apathy that exists around this 
campus. Go ahead and lie and tell yourself that 
it is just as spirited and just as much a commu­
nity as it was 20 years ago, 10 years ago, hell 
three years ago. 

I really don't care anymore. I used to get so 
frustrated with parking tickets. stupid rules, 
the bureaucracy, but why? Why exert the 
effort to fight a force that takes too long to rec­
ognize problems and even longer to attempt to 
change? Why do you think so many people 
choose to live off-campus? Why do you think 
football games aren't as spirited? Why do you 
think no one seems to care anymore? 

You have attempted to make things better 
but have succeeded in making things worse. 
The South Dining Hall -real nice move. 
Clamp down on underage drinking-nice job. 
Prevent students from parking in lots closer to 
facilities of use -touche again. Keep up the 
good work. Keep tackling those important 
issues and see where it takes you. I have an 
idea: Why don't you vote to not accept my point 
here; that will show me. Show me I'm wrong. 
Show me you can actually accomplish more 
than a substanceless vote. Show me you can 
even pronounce the issues that really face this 
campus. 

Too difficult? How about this one: Show me 
that the students of this campus care about 
your "causes" any more than for comedic 
value. Wake up, University bureaucracy, 
before what you wake up to is an empty, emo­
tionless campus that has lost the desire and the 
direction to be NO. 

The views expresse{i in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
• TooAv's STAFF  
News  Accent  
Hiltz, HAC, Nicole Sports Sarah Dylag Viewpoint Colleen Gaughen Brandon Williams  Joe Weiler Graphics Dave Piening Lab Tech Patrick Quigley  

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a memb-=:r of rhe Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 

The Observer· INSIDE Friday, November 7, 1997 



utside the Dome 
Compiled from U-wire reports 

Students may pay for IRS's tax credit reporting policy 
EVANSTON, Ill. The tax man is knocking on students' door. 
Starting in January, universities will have to report information about stu­dents to the Internal Revenue Service to determine the students' eligibility for federal tax credits. In order to do so, university officials said they will have to gather information they don't nor­mally gather. 
And students may end up footing the bill. 
"It's a problem our institutions will have to deal with," said David Merkowitz, director of Public Affairs for the American Council on Education. "Yes, there will be a burden, there will be cost involved. It's not the IRS's job to determine the cost of pay for it. Ultimately it will be passed along to students." 
Tuition could go up to pay for the cost of reporting to the IRS. but most 
• BROWN UNIVERSITY 

BU considers 'model minority' myth 
PROVIDENCE, R.I. 
An overachieving, relatively acquiescent science major embodies many Brown students' perception of the proto­typical Asian-American student. Many Asian-American students feel that the classic stereotype of the smart and over-achieving Asian-American often introduces wide­spread generalizations that perpetuate the myth of a "model minority." As Asian-American History Month com­mences this week with speeches and discussions, the "model minority" issue again draws the spotlight. "I know that the myth exists," said one student who requested anonymity. "People often express disbelief that I am not a science or engineering concentration. Well, what can I say? This is what I am." Of about a dozen Asian-American students interviewed, all felt that the myth still existed amidst the Brown community. Many were quick to add, however, that Brown is hardly the only environment that perpetuates the idea of a "model minority." 
• MICHIGAN STATE UNIVERSITY 

King case concludes with life sentence 
SAGINAW 
After declaring the murder of an MSU freshman "one of the most heinous crimes" he has presided over, Judge Leopold P. Borrello sentenced cousins August and Shytour Williams to life in prison without the possibility of parole. Shytour Williams, 16, was convicted Aug. 14 for his role in the Jan. 3 raping and killing of Karen King. A jury found him guilty of first-degree murder, first-degree criminal sexual conduct, carjacking, armed robbery, kidnapping, possession of a firearm during the commission of a felony and conspiracy. August Williams, 25, was convicted Oct. 15 for the same crimes. King was abducted outside a Saginaw grocery store. She was sexually assaulted and strangled in her father's Chevy Blazer. Her body was dis­covered Jan. 4 near an auto salvage yard. August and Shytour Williams were connected to the crime by DNA evi­dence. 
• SOUTH BEND WEATHER • NATIONAl WEATHER 
The AccuWeather®forecast for noon, Friday, Nov. 7.
5 Day South Bend Forecast 

Lines separate high temperature zones tor the day.
AccuWeather®forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 
;,___._/............................................ H L 


Friday Saturday Sunday 
\


Monday 


But NU officials said the process of collecting the information would be costly and burdensome. • ... 
"This is why the costs go up," said associate provost Rebecca Dixon. "We have to pay to handle all this stuff." 
The IRS is requiring colleges to report students to obtain information to determine who can receive Hope Scholarships and Lifetime Learning Credits, Merkowitz said. 
Hope Scholarships provide a maxi­mum $1,500 tax credit for the first two years of college. For part-time stu­dents, graduate students or students beyond their first two years. Lifetime Learning Credits will provide 20 per­cent of the first $5,000 of tuition through 2002 and on the first $10,000 after 2002. 
Only individuals with incomes under $50,000, or married couples with joint filings under $100,000, may claim tax credits. 
Universities will have to start gather­ing information in December in order to meet the Jan. 1 deadline for the Hope credits, Merkowitz said. That means students who pay their tuition bills before Jan. 1 will not receive Hope credits, he said. Lifetime Learning credits take effect after June 30, 1998. 

• STATE UNIVERSITY OF NEW YORK 
College Bowl to begin next week 
BINGHAMTON, N.Y. 

Binghamton University students will soon exercise their wits in the annual College Bowl. The College Bowl is a national tournament including about 300 colleges, where the goal is to answer as many questions as possible on a wide variety of subjects, including astronomy, sports and chemistry. Each team must have four students and an alternate; the team may include one graduate student. There will be a maximum of 10 teams from each residen­tial community, competing against each other in a game about 25 minutes long. Matches are double-elimination, meaning a team is eliminated after losing two matches in a round. "I like that idea," said senior Jerry Choi. "Where can I sign up?" All those interested can sign up in their community or contact their community academic vice president for more information.There is also a web page devoted to the College Bowl at www.collegebowl.com. 
• UNIVERSITY OF UTAH 
Clinton rescues student housing 
SALT LAKE CITY 

An announcement by President Clinton last week ended 
"a rollercoaster of emotions" regarding Olympic Housing 
construction. Clinton's decision to move U.S. Army 
Reserves off Fort Douglas will lead to 11 acres for new 
student housing and accommodation for athletes during 
the 2002 Olympic Games. Problems with housing plans, 
which have been in the works for some time now, first 
arose when Clinton used his newly-appropriated line-item 
veto power to cut a $1 million approbation by Congress on 
Oct. 6 to move three Army Reserve units off Fort Douglas. 
After the president was informed that this veto would stop 
the land transferring to the University of Utah, effectively 
barring some of the construction plans for the Olympics, 
he swiftly moved to reverse the decision. 'This gives us a 
tremendous sense of relief," said John Francis, chair of 
the Olympic Oversight Committee. 

52 39 54 41 54 41 


~,.-:49 34 

COLD WARM STATIONARY 
C 1997 AccuWeather, Inc. 

Pressure 
H L @ IS.'S:l [D) 0 . ~ 8 (} ~ u
Tue~d~y ~, (~ 41 26 

HICJH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T·STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY 
~--)'./'\\''~ ......./· ""../ Atlanta 56 45 Dallas 65 40 Miami 83 68 Baltimore 53 42 Denver 66 34 New York 57 44 Baton Rouge 68 45 Honolulu 87 70 Phoenix 86 59 
Chicago 53 35 Indianapolis 48 35 St. Louis 45 36
~,~,~4.88 i) ~ u 

Showers T-storms Rain Fl~r;ies S~o·;;, Ice Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy 
Columbus 54 41 Los Angeles 76 62 West Windsor 60 40 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 
-------~ 
Friday, November 7, 1997 
• SECURilY BEAT 
FRIDAY, OCT. 31 

9:06 a.m. A visitor was transported to St. Joseph Medical Center for treat· ment of an illness. 
5:21 p.m. Two ofl·campus students reported the theft of books from the library. 
5:58 p.m. Security stopped two visitors inside Siegfried Hall who were selling merchandise on campus without per· mission. 
SATURDAY, NOV.1 

1:30 p.m. A Carroll Hall resident was ctted for minor consuming alcohol inside the stadium. 
1:50 p.m. Three off-campus students were cited for possession of alcohOl inside the stadium. 2 a.m. A 55-year-old male visitor was arrested by South Bend police inside the stadium for public intoxication. 
6:15 p.m. A visitor reported the theft o! her purse from LaFortune Student Center. Her purse was left unattancted at the time of the theft. 8 p.m. A University Village resident reported the theft of his bookbag from the hallway outside of his apartment. Security has recovered the bookbag. The investigation is continuing. 
SUNDAY, NOV. 2 

12:15 p.m. Security transported a Keough Hal! resident to St Joseph Medlcai.Center for treatment of a sports Injury. 
1:45 p.m. A Dillon Hall resident was transported by Security to the University Health Center for treatment of a sports injury. 
5:40 p.m. A Knott Hall resident report­ed the theft of his bike from outside Knott. His bike was locked at the. time of the theft. 
MONDAY, NOV. 3 

9:12 a.m. A Siegfried Hall resident reported the theft of his bike from a Siegfried Hall bike rack. His bike was locked at the time of the theft. 
9:45 a.m. Security transported a Carroll Hall resident to the University. Hei!lth Center for treatment or a sports injury. 6 p.m. An off-campus student reported the theft of two textbooks from the fifth floor of the Hesburgh Library. 
9:15 p.m. A Stanford Hall resident reported the theft of two wallets from his unlocked room. 
The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS page 3 


Prof: Cutthroat competition may ruin meatpackers 

By DEREK BETCHER 
Associate News Editor 
Immigrant labor, low wages, and unsafe plants characterize the modern meatpacking industry, a trend which will continue unless participants step forward to brake destructive competi­tion, aceording to professor of economics Charles Craypo. 
Craypo delivered a lecture yesterday which examined relationships between pay, labor standards, and the dis­advantaged labor force in meatpacking -an industry he characterized as one of America's most dangerous and exploitative. 
He concluded that the cut­throat competition which forces wages down could ruin the industry for all employers and employees alike. 
"Competition in meatpack­ing has become destructive and it destroys the most-vul­nerable first -the immigrant workers," Craypo said. 
The current trend, however, indicates work standards are beginning to make a come­back, the speaker noted. Buoyed by increasing union­ization, workers are seeing bigger paychecks for the first time in decades. 
Unreported meatpacker vio­lations of labor and environ­mental law have given unions a "blackmail" bargaining chip, Craypo said. A new batch of effective Hispanic organizers has taken advan­tage of this climate to 


system. of Jupiter. 
INVITES YOU TO A PRESENTATION ON 

"PREPARING FOR THE CPA EXAM" AND CURRENT EVENTS 
WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 12, 1997 8:00P.M. 

UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME-LAFORTUNE CENTER FOSTER ROOM 
increase union membership. 
If the fledgling labor resur­gence takes hold, meatpack­ing will have overcome a tumultuous labor relations history. 
Meatpacking was once a high wage industry -with pay comparable to that of steelworkers or auto workers. Since the 1960s when the meatpacking unions' bargain­ing power peaked, the quality of jobs has deteriorated while disadvantaged labor groups replaced the well-paid, union­ized work force, Craypo explained. 
The switch to immigrant labor began in 1960, when an upstart low-wage packer, IBP, opened for business. 
Sixteen years later, IBP seized the market lead, and the surviving packers learned to follow its anti-union, immi­grant hiring practices. 
"[Leading meatpacking firms] did very skilled and heavy recruiting all over the 
U.S. and Mexico-particular­ly in border towns," Craypo said. "These workers formed a captive and disadvantaged labor force." 
Workers with other employ­ment options would not choose to work for a meat­packer, Craypo explained. 
Meatpacking takes place in a cold, slippery environment at high speeds where unskilled workers wielding sharp knives make repetitive cuts. The potential for injury is huge, Craypo said. 
"Every year, one out of 


three workers gets a serious gory, if you can imagine," injury. They are particularly Craypo told his audience. 
robserver.obsnews.l@nd.edu, 
Viewpoint. I @nd.edu 

STARSHIP TROOPER 3 (R) 1:15 4:10 7:10 9:50 IKtONIIIn-IATYOODIJLA (R) 2:15 5:00 7:30 9:45 
BEAN (PG-13) 1:45 4:30 6:50 9:15 BOOGIE NIGHTS (PG) 1:00 4:00 7:00 10:00 ROCKETMAN (R) 2:00 4:45 DEVILS ADVOCATE (R) 1:30 4:20 7:20 10:10 KISS THE GIRLS (R) 7:40 10:15 
GATTACA (PG-13) 
2:00 4:30 7:00 9:30 EVE'S BAYOU (R) 
2:30 5:00 7:30 1 0:00 SWITCHBACK (R) 
2:15 4:45 7:15 9:50 
-$250 VOUCHER RAFFLE -SPECIAL COLLEGE DISCOUNT AVAILABLE TO STUDENTS -PIZZA & POP WILL BE SERVED 
Open to ALL Students Interested-BRING A FRIEND! 

FOR INFORMATION, CALL 277-4366 OR 1-800-443-3062 

, 9!u~t. g;ecb &c reO{ 
Since 1921 CHICAGO • NEW YORK • ANTWERP •ISRAEL 
Direct Diamond Importers 

1-800-922-0090 
or visit our website at 

sapeck.com 
Winner of The Reader's Digest LookSmarl Editor's Choice Award 


MARA FOX FUN RUN 



5TH ANNUAL 
Saturday November 8, 1997 
Arrive at Lyons Basketball Courts at 9:45am. The Run begins at 1 Oam. 
Collect Pledges or Just Run/Walk for Fun! 
Money goes to the Mara Fox scholarship fund. 
continued from page 1 
Fruscione. 
"The dorm is getting more excited about it as it comes closer," said Fruscione. "We've had great publicity through word of mouth." 
This year, Lyons has linked the Fun Run to its SYR. The SYR. will be Saturday night and the theme of the SYR is "Run with it." 
Lyons residents are encour­aging their dates to get up and run, according to Fruscione. 
"This year we're really encouraging people to partic­ipate," said Bartniczak, noting that this is the first year that Fox's classmates are no longer at the University. 
Last year, every one of Fox's classmates from Lyons Hall ran. 
"It's been very important to her parents that Lyons and Notre Dame continue to show support," said Bartniczak. "I think [the continued support] says a lot about the Notre Dame community." 
All the runners will sign a guestbook as they cross the finish line. The guestbook will be sent to Fox's family. 
The Run begins at the Lyons Hall basketball courts. Runners will assemble at 9:45 a.m., and the Run itself will begin at 10 a.m. 
There is no registration fee or advance sign-up for the race. Runners may show up on the morning of the run. 
If they choose, runners can dress up to show their spirit. Outfits in the past have included Dr. Seuss hats and men in ballet costumes. 
Lyons is accepting donations for the scholarship fund at the dining halls during lunch and dinner today, and at the bas­ketball courts the morning of the race. 
"Just show up, said Fruscione. 
John Rita, the man accused of hitting Fox, will be retried on the charge of leaving the scene of the accident in February. 


LYONS HALL 
By P. COLLEEN NUGENT 
Associate Sainr Mary's News Ediror 
Students at Saint Mary's College have opportunities to broaden their academic horizons through taking advantage of the many overseas programs. 
Programs such as the Summer London Program and Semester Around the World, as well as an academic semester or year of studying in Rome or Ireland, are all offered by Saint Mary's. 
"Being given the opportunity to study in Rome last fall semester," stated junior J ackic Hensler, "has given me a deeper sense of appreciation toward the world." 
Several programs are available to Saint Mary's women through their school or through Notre Dame; if they choose to go through any other college or university in the nation, students must take a leave of absence, said Shari Overdorf, a counselor of the Ireland Program who has worked with the College for five years. 
During freshman orientation, students are informed about the various options of study­ing abroad. Students must meet specific requirements, such as a minimum GPA of 2.5, and earn their "W" in required core classes. 
"Students who display a sense of responsi­bility, maturity, and independence," stated Overdorf, "are the ones that most qualify for this program." 





Holocaust 
continued from page 1 
is the stories of individuals," Friedlander said. "We cannot grasp the broad meanings so we fall back on the individual. The mil­lions of dead remain an abstract (idea) that 
Er u Recital 
by 



Ms. MA XIAOHUI 


~ ~-----~-~~-------~-----­
page 4 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS Friday, November 7, 1997 

Fox SMC students praise study-abroad programs 
Being abroad has proven a chance for many students to mature and develop a sense of independence. While students studying in Ireland arc placed into a diverse community and learn in classrooms with the Ireland natives, students who choose to study in Rome have American-based class­rooms. 
"The program was wonderful," stated 
WORLD.' 

JACKIE HENSLER 
junior Joanne Noller, who studied abroad last year in Home. "Our location was ideal; however the administration needs to work on ways of communicating with the stu­dents." 
She went on to say that the classes were very educational, and the faculty members were always willing to work with the stu­dents. 
Studying in Ireland has been a tradition for Saint Mary's and Notre Dame students for several years. Students who attend this pro­
can't be grasped." He pointed to the diary of Anne Frank as a prime example of the individual experience. 
"Anne Frank, for many people, is the Holocaust," he said. "It is the face of a young girl." 
Friedlander does not believe that the world ever forgot the Holocaust, even dur­
ing its long silence. 

The Saint Mary's College Department ofMusic cordially invites you to attend the 25th aJ7Jmal 


jfl[abrtgal !JBtnner~ 
Please join us in Regina Hall for dinner and enlertainment, 
Friday, Saturday and Sunday Decemberfifth, sixth and seven!h at 7p.m each evening plus a matinee on Sunday at 2p.m 
Advance reservations required, $25.00 per person. 
Tcckets on sale at the Saint Mary's box office, located in O'LLlughlin Auditoriwn, 9-5 Monday-Friday 2191284-4778 Discover, V1.m, MasterCarrl accepted 
gram, according to Overdorf, truly·seem to take advantage of the opportunity to become familiar with their Irish heritage. 
Although traveling overseas may seem to be an overwhelming event, she said that the students' period of personal adjustment ends within a reasonable period of time. 
Although the experience was rather difli­cult in the beginning, junior Colleen Sutton stated that studying abroad was an extreme­ly valuable learning experience. 
When studying overseas, students can expect to experience a mixture of emotions. Along with feelings of fear, homesickness and a sense of being lost in a new country, students tend to bond with the others study­ing abroad with them. 
"We have become a family," stated junior Meg Kensinger. "After studying together for an entire year, we have learned to depend on each other." 
Going back to the abroad countries has become a strong desire for many of the Saint Mary's women. A bond between them and the countries they studied in has been formed, thus allowing them to appreciate their own culture through a more adult-like perspective. 
"Everyone has to find their niche in life, and I feel lucky to have found mine through that of the Ireland program," said Sutton. "Upon graduation, I hope to return to Ireland where I can begin my life as an ele­mentary school teacher." 
"The Nazi persecution as such has loomed large in our conscience since the end of war," he said. "It's not that people have for­gotten the Nazis, not at all." 
Friedlander will remain on campus through Monday, meeting with students and professors in small group sessions. His visit concludes the scholar-in-residence pro­gram. 
-lit­
SAINT 
MARY'S 
COLLEGE 
NOTRE DAME, IN 


--~-­

... 


Library has 'presidential' opening 
. Photo 
prestdent Bill Clinton, ,First Lady H~llary Clinton, former Pr~sident Geor_ge ~ush and former First Lady Barbara Bush look up 
to see _the~-~-Army s Gold~n Kntghts parachute team dunng the dedtcatton ceremony of the George Bush Library at Texas 
A&M U ntverstty tn College Statton, Texas. Current and former presidents of the U.S. and a host of former world leaders and poli­
cymakers attended yesterday's dedication. 
MEXICO CITY 

A passenger train collided with a bus in eastern Cuba on Thursday, killing at least 56 people and seriously injuring six. The crash happened at a railroad crossing in Holguin province, a sugar-producing area near the island's eastern tip, according to a reporter in I Iavana contacted by telephone. The train struck the center of the bus and dragged it several yards down the tracks, the reporter said. The driver of the bus, 34-year-old Juan Carlos Santos, disobeyed a stop signal at the crossing, the official Cuban news agency Prensa Latina reported. Santos was among the dead. All of the other victims were pas­sengers on the bus. All but one were resi­dents of Holguin province; the other was a llavana resident. The injured were listed in critical condition at local hospitals. The crash happened at a crossing known as Crucero del Rey in the town of Urbano Rey, one of Cuba's largest sugar-producing centers about 300 miles east of Havana. The bus was scheduled to make a stop in the town. Thursday's crash was the deadliest traffic accident in Cuba in recent years. 
Nasdaq:-9.33 1623.44 

-2.64 
NYSE: 493.75 -2.02 
S&P 500: Composite 
983.03. Volume:

7683.24 -4.73 522,180,000 
BIGGEST PERCENTAGE GAINERS 
COMPANY TICKER %CHANGE SGAIN PRICE 
Ansam Pharm ANSN +119.05% 1.563 2.875 Ansan Pharm-VTS ANSNV +56.098% 1.438 4.000 Network Six Inc. NWSS +45.00% 1.125 3.625 SKYL +40.909% 0.565 1.938
l~r~;~tic"i;~W-'"!!~d AGLFR +38.462% 1.250 4.500 
BIGGEST PERCENTAGE LOSERS 
Nitinol Med Tech NMTI ·28.636% 3.938 9.813 Novametrix M-Wta NMTXW ·24.00% 0.750 2.375 Med Resources MRII ·23.874% 3.313 10.56 Faxsav Inc. FAXX ·20.00% 0.500 2.000 View Tech lnc-WT VUTKW -20.00% 0.500 2.000 

Clinton, former presidents open $80 mil. building 
AssoCIATED PRESS 
COLLEGE STATION, Texas 
Five years out of the White House, George Bush opened his presidential library Thursday with inauguration­style pomp that included a salute from the man who sent him into retirement. 
An estimated 20,000 people, includ­ing President Clinton and former Presidents Ford and Carter, gathered to dedicate the George Bush Presidential Library and Museum at Texas A&M University. The school's band played, its cadets sang and a team of parachutists bailed out over­head, trailing colorful smoke. 
BOSiON 
A bill to f~instate the• 
death penalty · ·-. in 
Massachusetts failed 
Thursday in tile state House of Representatives by a sin­

~r :r~ ~~~~~~~e;;~~o ~~~: ~:t:?Jt;~g·~~ 
gle vote changed because of What hap• that we're nofsure? was theri In a 30-minute speechthe British au pair case. pens to the ·..•-. . ·.·· • sent to before a hushed ctlamber, 
Rep. John Slattery, a L.o u i s ~ \\fha~ ~app~11.s tothe c()m!llittee House Speaker Thomas Democrat, sajd he switched Woodwa.rds Louis~WoodWards of to be rec-Finneran:, D-Boston. arguedhis vote froni "yes" ·to "n:o~ 
owfo.rld?. "thh_ee the world?' . . 0 n c i le d that there was a possibilityafter talking to constituents about Louise Woodward, the 
said. . .•..._...•• ---··-··-. ·· 
British au paitdmvictedlast Woodward week of murder hi the death of an infant in her care, The ve 'ct hasheen criticized 6 h .sld~.s of 
the Atlantic. · ··· · 

Bush, whose mother discouraged boastfulness so forcefully that the 73­year-old former president often drops the word "I" from his sentences, was a bit uneasy with all the fuss. 
"There is one thing left for me to do -apologize to my mother," Bush told the crowd. ''I'm afraid some of these exhibits today might violate her 'no bragging' rule. I just hope we've in some way given proper credit to all with whom I worked during every chapter of my life." 
The $80 million complex, built on what once was a Texas A&M hog farm, includes displays that trace Bush's life, from Yale baseball star to young World War II bomber pilot to oilman who drove his wife, Barbara, and growing family to West Texas in a 1947 Studebaker. 
Others exhibits address his tenure as CIA director, U.N. ambassador, liai­son to China, vice president under Reagan and then president. He lost his re-election bid to Clinton in 1992. 
"America has had a good man, whose decency and emotions served our country well, and that is the story this library will tell for generations to come," Clinton said. 
The guest list included 10 gover­nors, senators and congressmen, nearly two dozen former Bush Cabinet members and such Hollywood stars as Arnold Schwarzenegger and Kevin Costner. 
Nancy Reagan, representing her ail­ing husband, said Ronald Reagan treasured their weekly lunches with Bush in the White House. 
"He enjoyed your counsel so much," Mrs. Reagan said. "I wish Ronnie could be here today and tell you in person what I know he would say thank you for your service and your steadfastness, but most of all for being his good friend." 
row margin in the House. 

Death·penalty supporters in tM House were shocked ·.·to learnjust as debate began a t that Slattery had defected. 
with a sim-that innocent people would .· !ohn $la#er~t, )1<1/r.Sena.t~. he executed."Mistakes can, 
· ·. · · · ··-· · · measure> do and Will, occur;• he said. approved •·. Cellucci angrily accused month. Finneran of spreading mis· 
~u~''Ulll4_~vu about the bill. 
issue isri't going to go away," he said. "The peo­ple of this state are out­

-----·--~--~ 
~~­

page 6 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS Friday, November 7, 1997 
course of action. tion. The 24-and 48-hour passes "In three-fourths of the cases, are tools to facilitate this and


Feature 

ND. students· tutor 
the courts will follow our recom­improve family relations. 
continued from page 1 mendations," Davis said. "I have become closer to my The third program is the Day family," said a 15-year-old resi­that it is what Cecil Davis, the Reporting Unit, which the offend­dent. "The program really teach­



facility r.esidents 
building's superintendent, calls a er attends after completing his es you to learn to value what you 
"minimal-security, community­based program." 
It is only one of a few minimal­security facilities across the state; the majority rely on strin­gent security and strict discipline as a means of rehabilitation. These fnclude Plainesville Juvenile Correctional Facility, [formerly known as Boys School], Northeast Correctional Facility in Fort Wayne, and Northcentral Correctional Facility in Logansport. 
"There [at Boys School] you can't be outside a 12-foot razor­wire fence. Here you can go out­side and· even earn weekend passes," said a 15-year-old for­mer resident who now lives at the South Bend facility. Another resident described his boot camp experience at Boys School as "hell on earth." 
In contrast to these programs, the South Bend facility has no razor-wire fence, no bars on the windows, and no attack dogs. 
"Our facility is treatment-ori­ented," explained Davis. "We look at the problems and try to solve them." 
REHABILITATION 
This brand of rehabilitation takes the shape of three princi­ple programs: the Residential Treatment Unit, the Diagnostic Unit, and the Day Reporting Unit, explained Davis. 
The Residential Treatment Unit is a 24-hour program that includes all 36 full-time resi­dents, male juvenile delinquents ages 12 to 18, Davis said. 
"They are adjudicated delin­quents by the courts, sent to the Department of Correction," he explained. Adjudicated delin­quency means they have already been tried and have left the judi­cial system, with their fate placed in the hands of the state. 
The second program. the Diagnostic Unit, is a smaller and more secure unit, Davis said. The program is co-ed, and kids who participate remain within the jurisdiction of the courts. They have not yet been handed over to the DOC. 
'The juvenile court sends them to get a diagnostic evaluation of their problems," Davis said. This entails interviews. psychological evaluations and IQ tests. 
The courts must receive copies of the test results, along with a recommendation from a staff member as to the recommended sentence. It is an eight-week pro­gram organized through the DOC and South Bend. 


Davis described it as a "contin­uum of care, focusing on re-inte­gration" into a family setting as well as society. The students must complete the Day Reporting Program as part of their probation. 
SETIING GOALS 
Although all three programs are important, component parts of a whole, the most noticeable successes stem from the Residential Treatment Program, Davis said. 
The RTP operates on three lev­els, Davis said, creating "an indi­vidual treatment program." 
The program focuses on set­ting academic and behavioral goals, and working through the levels to attain them; upon com­pletion, the resident is dis­charged. On average, residents stay for four months, Davis said. 
"[The RTPJ is predicated on identifying individual needs and working on those needs," Davis said. By implementing special education programs and sub­stance abuse, the counselors help students address and understand individual needs. 
The students start on level one when they arrive, which includes drug education programs. anger management classes and involvement in the Positive Group Empowerment program. The PGE encourages staff mem­bers and a group of residents to discuss problems areas and pos­sible solutions. 
Another component of level one is on-grounds schooling. All residents spend four hours per day in class. and the credits that they earn can be transferred to a high school when they leave, or applied towards their GED. 
Davis recognizes a direct cor­relation between responsibility and privileges. At level one, the students do not have much responsibility; as they attain their goals, improve their atti­tudes and move through the lev­els, "demonstration of more responsibility means more privi­leges," Davis said. 
Upon reaching level two, resi­dents are awarded 24-hour passes to go home, and level three students may go home for 48-hours. 
Davis stressed the importance of family and resident interac-

November 8 December 6 
got when you got it." 

By KR.ISTI KUTSCH 
NC\Yll Wrirer
RE-INTEGRATION Further, the Day Heporting 

The South Bend Juvenile
Program aims at re-integrating Residential Facility sits hack off residents into their familial envi­Laurel Road. seemingly isolat­ronment. Family counseling is ed from the Notre Dame cam­

also a part of the program 

pus.
because many of the residents But a link does exist connect­come from families with a lot of ing the facility to Notre Dameproblems, Davis said, linking students -the University'sdelinquency with the home envi­Student Tutorial Educational 

ronment. 

Program (STEP), a group of"A lot of students come from students who make weekly vis­broken homes and single-parent · its to the center as a part of the or dysfunctional families," Davis program. .
said, adding that these environ­The members of STEP travel 

ments lack structure, and in 

to the facility on Monday.
many cases the parents may not 

Tuesday, and Wednesday
know how to control the behav­nights from 8:30 to 9:30 p.m.

ior of their kids. 

The program has been rurining 
Correctional officer Chuck 

successfully since its inceptionStout also attributed the lack of more than Mven years ago. 
permanency and family struc­i Jeff Wincko, co-president of ture to the residents' criminal 

the program, believes that
activities. 

STEP really makes a difference"Most of these kids don't come in the lives ofthe residents. 
from a structured society," Stout "Generally, I think that theysaid. "Their mother may be a respond well to us," he said.

hooker and their father a drug 

"Talking to us. gives them
dealer. Yet here, they have a something to look at; in a way

structured environment." Another disciplinarian option 
STRUCTURE used is called "lock down," and it 

The residents have a very regi­entails a week in a segregation

mented daily schedule and a unit used only as a last resort, 

very structured program of 

Davis explained. This measure is 
treatment, but Davis stressed 

used in cases of extreme behav­
that they are not incarcerated or ioral problems, such as seriously

confined to their rooms all day, 

injuring another student, an 
like other facilities. 

attempt at committing suicide, or 
Although the facility may a attempted escape, he said. 

appear to be lax, it is not a play­ground. Discipline is enforced, RETURNING HOME 

and violations to the structure or 

Overall, the relationship
schedule are not tolerated. 

between the residents and the 
Serious violations, such as bat­staff is positive, said Tom Avery, 

tery or attempted escape, may another correctional officer. 

result in the lengthening of the "I can't change their way of 

sentence, or a possible transfer thinking, but I can set an exam­

to another facility. Minor offens­ple," Avery said. "Every kid is an 

es such as verbal harassment or individual -some are respect­roughhousing, are dealt with in ful, and others aren't." 

a private meeting between the Davis estimated that 75 per­

officer and the offender. 

cent of residents succeed and do 
~RJtV R~<rr~L 8>1 ~. ,~ ~J-AOOVJ 
November 7, 1997, 7:30p.m. Jordan Auditorium College of Business Administration, University of Notre Dame 

we inspire them." 
Facility superintendent Cecil Davis agreed. "The kids enjoy extra attention, and get very excited. To them it seems like someone . is trying to help and gives a hoot," he said. 
The STEP program serves a dualfunction. The residents of the facility feel inspired through their interaction with the tutors; in return, it can elminate any stereotypes that the tutors may have had. 
Before Michele Visnosky vis­ited the facility for the first time. she admittedly had pre­conceived ideas. 
"I thought they were going to be pretty tough kids, and I wasn't sure how they would respond," Visnosky said. "When I got to the door, they all had their heads poked out of windows shouting, cat call­ing,_, I felt that I wasn't sup­posed to be there," she said. "Yet as soon as I started work­ing, I realized that they were like everyone else and deserved a chance." 
not return to the criminal justice system. He said that the majority of the studenl'i return to school, and four or five students earned their GED this year. 
"If no contact or support exists at home, we place that resident in a residential group home," Davis clarified. "He will not be released onto the streets." 
As for the kids themselves, they value what they have learned as residents and think that the facility's program in general is beneficial. A 15-year­old resident will be released today, after serving less than two months. 
He plans to work until next fall, when he will return to high school as a sophomore. 
"I will stay out of trouble when I get out," he said. 

Erhu Soloist, Ms. Ma Xiaohui, is one of the most outstanding traditional musical instrumentalists in China and the principal Erhuist at the Shanghai Traditional Orchestra. She has won many musical awards in China and has performed in the United States, Canada, Hong Kong, Taiwan, and Macao. 
Erhu, a two-string fid­dle, IS an old Chinese instrument, the earliest record of which dates back to the Han dynasty, around 500 A.D. 
Donations Welcome 
Tickt:ts availablt: at tht: LaFortunt: Information Dt:sk (Bus lt:avt:s lOam from Stepan Ct:ntt:r lt:avt:s Chicago at 9pm-South Bend Timt:) 

Sponsored by the Asian-American Association and the Notre Dame Chinese Friendship Association 
Friday, November 7, 1997 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS page 7 





George examines morality and the Constitution 
Observer Staff Report 
Drawing on the constitutional think~ ing of Ronald Dworkin and Supreme Court Justice Antonio Scalia, Princeton politics professor Robert George exam­ined the question of "Is there a moral reading of the Constitution?" at the Law School last night. 
Before an audience of more than 100, George critiqued the views of Dworkin, a law professor from New York University who argues that judges can draw on their moral beliefs in interpreting the Constitution. 
George contrasted Dworkin's views with those of Scalia, who is well­known for his belief that judges should n~frain from using their moral views to make inferences from the Constitution. 
According to George, Scalia's think­ing can be termed "legal positivism," which argues that judges should not legislate from the bench, and should only interpret the Constitution based on what that document explicitly states. 
Rather, drawing on one's moral views to legislate should be left to the lawmakers in Congress and in state and iocal assemblies, legal positivists say. 
Dworkin counters that argument by saying that democracy rests on the right of each person to be treated by the government equally, according to George. 
From this follows certain rights whose violation is incompatible with the Constitution, George said. The result is that the Constitution provides some protection for certain rights even if they are not specified in the Constitution, George 'tdded. 
The question remaining is who has the power to determine which rights deserve protection. According to Scalia, the legislators have that power. But Dworkin, says George, argues that judges have the right to do so. 

"[According to Dworkin,] democracy does not insist that judges have the today in the Law School courtroom on response to former "New Republic" last word," George said. "But it does the right of homosexuals to marry. editor Andrew Sullivan, who has not insist that it does not, either." The lecture, sponsored in part by the argued that the right to marry should 
Dworkin will give a lecture at noon Strake Foundation, will serve as a be extended to homosexuals. 

ND builds up music library with rare 1 0,000-piece purchase 
By TOM ENRIGHT 
News Writer 
The University of Notre Dame's music library has joined Harvard and Princeton Universities this year with the recent acquisition of over 10,000 music manuscripts on microfilm, making this the sin­gle largest purchase in the music library's history. 
The acquisition, a two-set col­lection of original and tran­scribed manuscripts from British libraries and private collections, contains music from at least six European countries including Great Britain, Italy, and Spain. The music's composition dates cover more than a 600-year period from the 13th century through 1930. 
The collection itself contains an assortment of sacred music, secular music, and instrumen­tal pieces that range from early chant books to operas and con­certos. The works of composers such as Purcell, Vivaldi, Haydn, and Mozart also appear in the two sets of microfilm. 
"This collection encompasses everything that is available in the British library system," says 
Try a Large 
SMOOTHIE 
TODAY! 
"A Healthy Meal in Itself" 
Campus Shoppes 1837 Sourh Bend Avenue South Bend, Indiana 46637 219-271-9540 
Richard Jones, Hesburgh Library's music librarian. "It's the next best thing to having actual manuscripts here." 
Jones brought news of the collection to the department of music in August, when it became available at a 60 per­cent discount. 
Having started the same col­lection at the University of Wisconsin during the 1980s, Jones noted that only a handful of universities, such as Columbia, Princeton, and Harvard, already possess the complete set. 
Since arriving at Notre Dame five years ago, Jones has wait­ed to purchase the entire col­lection due to its large cost. Because the reduced price still totaled $41,000, Jones drew funding from a special projects fund in the library and from the music department. That fund, 
SAINT MARY'S COLLEGE 
H 
NOEL COWARD 
Diamond PriceQuotations 246-1939 
Thinking ofpurchasing a diamond? Choose wisely with information in our complimentary book, Diamonds Magnified, 186 pages, hardbound. 




The Diallllond Authority® 
A Division ofJohn M. Marshall's, Inc. Established 1965 
Monday-Friday, lOa.m. to 6p.m. 
KeyBank Building, Suite #101 South Bend, Indiana 46601 

overseen by a collection devel­opment committee, was seeking a way to help improve the University's music collection. 
Before acquiring this collec­tion, Notre Dame's music library housed only about 100 such manuscripts, all of which came by permission from other universities. Unlike this recent acquisition, Jones explains, purchasing single manuscripts from other universities can take up to two years. 
Jones especially credits the aid of Susan Youens, professor of music, and Paul Johnson, chair of the music department, in helping him bring the collec­tion to Notre Dame. 
"It was a fortuitous coinci­dence of circumstances," said Jones. "News of the sale occurred early enough while no one was committed to other projects. For something big like 
MOREAU CENTER­LITllE THEATRE NOV. 13,14,15 at8pm
E 
&NOV. 16 at2:30 pm 
nckets on sale at the Saint Mary's College Box Office in O'Laughlin Auditorium, open Mon. -Fri., 9am to 5pm. Credit Card orders by phone : 
219/284-4626 
..,......,,C·"···O 
,~f!tf-:~1{, 
~ NOTRE DAME, IN 
• 
this, especially when using out­side funds, it becomes a wide consultation process." 
Jones noted that the pur­chase's significance lies not just in terms of cost and number of works, but in its usefulness to Notre Dame. 
"The tremendous advantage of this collection is that it is accessible to all students for a variety of reasons," he said. 
Students and faculty of all majors can make copies of the microfilmed music, play it and prepare their own additions and interpretations based on particular pieces. 
The collection contains a mix­ture of pieces both in the origi­nal handwriting of their com­posers and of final hand-copied pieces intended for wider use by musicians. 
"Each of these is a step in the development of a particular piece of music," said Jones. 
Currently housed in Hesburgh Library, the music microfilm collection will eventually take up residence in a new music library within the planned Performing Arts Center. 
Got_




News? 
Please share it! 
1-5323. 


f>:ludent 

Tenni! _!..\iniG 
Monday, November 17 
6:00 PM -7:15 PM 

A?~~~~~ Eck Tennis Pavilion Stroke Analysis 
& 

t ' 
Situations

' 
Presented By: Men's &Women's Varsity Tennis Teams 
Free of Charge No Advance Registration Necessary Bring Your Own Racquet 
Shoes Required, No Running Shoes • • •• Open to All Notre Dame Students 





VIEWPOINT 
page 8 Friday, November 7, 1997 


How are You Spending Your Half Hour With Christ? 
Have you heard about the new and sensitive math of the '90s? A math problem in a Pennsylvania public school "explained that there were four birds in a nest and one flew away. The question: How do you think the bird felt that flew away from the nest?" Washington Times. Oct. 19. 1997 p.l. You might insensitively ask, "What does that have to do with math?" Or even, "Who cares?" But maybe this new and caring math has potential. It might even be rel­evant to Notre Dame. 


Charles Rice 
Consider this problem in the Notre Dame context: "There are 336 half-hour periods in a week. Question: If you sub­tracted one of those half-hours and used it, how do you think you would feel if you spent it with Christ?" There is an easy way to find the answer. Entirely on student initiative and with the assistance of Campus Ministry, Notre Dame now has round-the-clock adoration of the Blessed Sacrament in the chapel of Fisher Hall, from 11:30 p.m. on Monday through 10 p.m. on Tuesday. Students, faculty and staff participate, usually in half-hour segments. Walk-ins are wel­come. 
Why do such a thing? "l make a holy hour each day in the presence of Jesus in the Blessed Sacrament," said Mother Teresa. "All my sisters ... make a daily holy hour, as well, because we find that through [it) our love for Jesus be~omes more intimate, our love for each other more understanding, and our love for the poor more compassionate ... I beg the Blessed Mother to touch the hearts of all parish priests that they may have perpetual Eucharistic Adoration ... and that it may spread through the entire world." 
Addressing the Irish people in 1979, Pope John Paul II said, "The visit to the Blessed Sacrament is a great treasure of the Catholic faith. It nourishes social love and gives us opportunities for ado­ration and thanksgiving, for reparation and supplication. Exposition and Adoration of the Blessed Sacrament [and] Holy Hours are ... in full accord with the teaching of the Second Vatican Council." 
The first thing to remember here is the reality of the presence of Christ in the Eucharist. Surveys indicate that only 27 percent of Catholics believe in the Real Presence. But the Catechism of the Catholic Church spells it out: "In the most blessed sacrament of the Eucharist 'the body and blood, together with the soul and divinity, of our Lord Jesus Christ and. therefore, the whole Christ is truly, really. and substantially con­tained.' 'This presence is called 'real'­by which is not intended to exclude the other types of presence as if they could not be 'real' too, but because it is pres­ence in the fullest sense: that is to say. it is a substantial presence by which Christ, God and man, makes himself wholly and entirely present' ... The Eucharistic presence of Christ begins at the moment of the consecration and endures as long as the Eucharistic species subsist. 'The Catholic Church has always offered and still offers to the sacrament of the Eucharist the cult of adoration, not only during Mass, but also outside of it, reserving the conse­crated hosts with the utmost care, exposing them to the solemn veneration of the faithful, and carrying them in pro­cession ...' 
"In his Eucharistic presence [Christ) remains mysteriously in our midst as the one who loved us and gave himself up for us, and he remains under signs that express and communicate this love: 
"The Church and the world have a great need for Eucharistic worship. 
Jesus awaits us in this sacrament of love. Let us not refuse the time to go to meet him in adoration. in contemplation full of faith, and open to making amends for the serious offenses and crimes of the world. Let our adoration never cease." John Paul II, Dominicae Cenae, 3. 
"Because Christ himself is present in the sacrament of the altar, he is to be honored with the worship of adoration. To visit the Blessed Sacrament is ... a proof of gratitude, an expression of love, and a duty of adoration toward Christ 
'}cannot t~ink of anything 
more important for young Catholics than to have a place on Our Lady's campus to which they can go at any hour to spend time before Jesus in the Blessed Sacrament.' 
Mark Woodmansee 

our Lord."' Catechism, 1374-81, 1418 (emphasis in original). 
In recent years many parishes throughout the United States, including some in this area. have instituted per­petual adoration of Christ in the Eucharist for 24 hours every day. Appropriately, this practice has been restored at Notre Dame. on student ini­tiative, for one day a week and perhaps more in the future. It will be a source of grace for the University. "I cannot think of anything more important for young Catholics," said Mark Woodmansee, a recent graduate, "than to have a place on Our Lady's campus to which they can go at any hour to spend time before Jesus in the Blessed Sacrament." lie kept that resolution. The "Holy Hour," he said, "is not a devotion; it is a sharing in the work of redemption ... Our Lord asked: 'Could you not watch one hour with Me?' Not for an hour of activity did He plead, but for an hour of companion­ship. The purpose of the Holy Hour is to encourage deep personal encounter with Christ. The holy and glorious God is constantly inviting us to come to llim, to hold converse with Him, to ask for such things as we need and to experience what a blessing there is in fellowship with llim ... Silence in the Hour is a tete­a-tete with the Lord. In those moments, one does not so much pour out written prayers, but listening takes its place." 
But suppose you fall asleep? Archbishop Sheen recounts the occasion in the Church of St. Roch in Paris when he knelt down. promptly fell asleep and "woke up exactly at the end of one hour." lie wondered if he had really made his promised Hour until he real­ized "that's the way the Apostles made their first Holy Hour in the Garden." So falling asleep should not be a concern. 
I would make sense to take advantage of this opportunity. "Nothing could bring more grace to Notre Dame." said Mary Kloska, '99, "than for Jesus, Himself. to be honored and adored there continu­ously." To sign up, call Mary Kloska, 4­1432, Aaron Kheriaty, 4-4802, or Campus Ministry, 1-5242. Or just drop in, between 11:30 p.m. Monday and 10 
p.m. Tuesday at fisher Hall Chapel. 
We don't know how that Pennsylvania bird felt when he flew away from the nest. But we can be sure that we will feel good if we give those 30 minutes to Christ. Pray for yourself. exams, your family, whatever. And dream that there is no law against praying for the success of the football team, including even an undefeated season next year. God is omnipotent. He can do anything. 
Charles Rice is on the Law School fac­ulty. /lis column appears every other Friday. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not neces­sarily those ofThe Observer. 
• DOONESBU!W GARRY TRUDEAU 
• QuoTE OF THE DAY 

------------~~---~~~-~--------~ 

VIEWPOINT ! 
Friday, November 7, 1997 page 9 
• ON THE PoLLEN PATH 
Having the Experience, Missing the Meaning 
What do you think about? I mean, what is it that you think about when you are not in class? Anything of importance, or are you too busy to spend your time thinking about anything but homework? Few of us still appreciate the worth of sit­ting and looking at the trees, or spending any length of time talking to someone, or wandering aimlessly around campus. 
One friend of mine. who is in five class-
Kyle 

Smith 

es and also has a part-time job, decided that next semester he would only take four classes. This decision was not made out of any sort of laziness on his part, but rather because of a desire to have more time to himself. I like the wording he used: more "time to himself." It is easy to tell apart those who fill their time with distractions and those who fill their time with enriching moments and valuable introspection. 
Those who fill their time with mind­less distractions will refer to it as "free time," and never as "time to myself' or "time to think." I've often thought that college would be much more rewarding if, 
• lETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
ND to Address Diversity 

The "Men About Campus" ciU'" toon published by The Observet\ last Friday caused hurt and disf' tress to many members of this community. Appearance of the cartoon has also triggered broader. questions. It has brought to th surface feelings and reactio the variety of ways in which No~re Dame still falls short of our goal of being a diverse community and ,, one in which all members feeL equally welcome and respecte 
The University Committee on Cultural Diversity, which I chair; was created both to heighten awareness of the challenges that face Notre Dame as we strive to meet our goal of being a diverse and welcoming community and also to make recommendations to the various segments of the broad­er University community regard­ing steps that might be taken toward this goal. The committee .. ·· has both faculty and administra~ tive members. The committee has traditionally functioned with three subcommittees: academic affairs~ recruitment, and campus climate; 
The events of the last week are / obtrusively relevant to the work of the entire committee and especial­ly to the subcommittee on campus climate. The committee has ate\ ularly scheduled meeting on Monday, Nov. 10. After colll:lti tion with officers of the Unive I have decided that at Monda meeting I will propose to the mittee that it schudule in the future a listening session to p vide a forum in which cone can be voiced and issues r this way the committee can become more fully informed a current concerns, which wilU enable it to better fulfill its date of formulating and r recommendations to be bro the attention of the relevant ofthe UniversUy. 
instead of taking five classes each semes­ter for four years, we took just four class­es a semester for five years. But, this will never happen; if anything, students will be pushed to graduate early. The reason why is a conspiracy of corporate America. 
Businesses in the U.S. invest hundreds of thousands of dollars in America's col­leges and universities, and they do not care if you can think for yourself. In fact, they want just the opposite because they want you to work for them. Corporate America does not want adventurous free spirits, and they do not care if you like your job. Every project I ever hear about from business majors is a group project of sorts; this is a sneaky trick that business­es use to introduce an interesting form of corporate socialism into a capitalist soci­ety. If a company's employees function as a group, it makes it easy to see when someone begins to think for oneself and realize that investing and making lots of money do not bring any lasting fulfill­ment. 
Corporations have been so successful in brainwashing all of us that rarely do stu­dents see college as a time of learning about oneself and about the world. Rather, most see college as a means to get a good job to make money. Prime exam­ple: What is the number one question that everyone asks you right after "what's your major?" 
The next question is the same from everyone; it is as if we were all given a script from which to read. Once the peo­ple from the "real world" know what our major (or should I say "career path?") is, they ask us: "What are you going to do after you graduate?" Few seem to care about how you enjoy your classes or what you are learning because to them the only things of any importance lie in the future. 
Shortly before his death, Dogen, a famous Zen monk of the past century, wrote, "Though I may see autumn once again, how can I sleep with the moon as it is this evening?" 
I cannot help but be reminded of Dogen anytime I am walking around campus, and especially if I am walking to class or to the library to do homework. Do you notice the magical and beautiful colors of the trees this time of year? I love Notre Dame. I do not want to be here for only four years. Even when it is cloudy or rain­ing, I am reluctant to stay inside. If I can­not stop to appreciate autumn's colors now, when can I? We are only here for a short time, yet we are brainwashed into always looking into the future to a time when we will have money and everything will be better and more important. 
But it doesn't get better. Once you grad­uate and are working, you still must plan for the future, so you start investing for retirement and saving so your children can go to college. When you finally retire and can use some of the money you have been dutifully saving all the years, you are too old to have any fun with it and you spend your days hobbling around the golf course wishing you were young and back in college again. 
Watch the alumni the next time we have a home football game. All of them love to talk with students so they can attempt to relive what were the best days of their lives. I listened to one alum dis­cuss with a friend of mine how it was a travesty that Walsh Hall is now a women's dorm. Though he probably graduated more than 40 years ago, when it came to discussing NO, the man became alive again and had as much enthusiasm as a child. As the man and his wife walked away, his wife turned to apologize for taking our time and explained that her husband "always gets this way" when he comes back for football games. 
The next time you are hurrying across campus, slow down. Take the time to gaze at the autumn leaves. Take the time to watch the squirrels scurry about. Take the time to watch the sunsets and the rainbows. T.S. Eliot wrote, "We had the experience but missed the meaning." If more of us took the time to find the mean­ing, the experience would mean a lot more. 
The old alum, for example, has taken the time to reflect, yet his college days are now but wonderful memories. Our days, on the other hand, are right here. 
Kyle Smith is a philosophy major who resides in Morrissey Manor. He can be reached by e-mail at Smith.334@nd.edu. His column appears every other Friday. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
We Must_Find Serenity, Courage and Wisdom 
I am writing to you, in order to respond to yesterday's letter (Nov. 
5) from Matt Wohlberg. I've been to the meetings, I support the fliers and articles, and I accept the apologies. I give Dan Sullivan the benefit of the doubt and believe that he did not maliciously intend to hurt anyone in our NO community. However, ignorance is bliss, and the comic printed on Halloween is proof. Racial and cultural igno­rance here at Notre Dame account for the constant awareness of racial differences. First of all, Hispanic is a generic term that rids individuals of their cultural identity and is a poor word choice by Matt Wohlberg. In fact, the apology printed in Monday's Observer reduced the issue at hand to a poor word choice. Unfortunately the issue runs much deeper than simple word choice. The issue is that Notre Dame falls short of being anywhere near diversified. The stu­dent body may appear to have some type of numerical statistics that reflect diversity, but in the hearts and minds of many there is no such truth. Notre Dame is a Catholic community, and as a Catholic community we must open our hearts and minds in times of pain, and right the wrongs. We, as a community, must be open to educa­tion and learn how to appreciate the diversity that is so glaringly lacking. I am from California, and I have never encountered so much racial ignorance. I am Chicana, which means that I am Mexican-American, and I have never been more aware of the fact that I am a minority. I never before in my life felt like a minority. However, here that is what I am. I realize this when people assume that I am from Mexico simply because of my skin color and last name. In reality, my family never immigrated from anywhere. My roots are in California. My family has been there from the time California was still a part of Mexico. The geographical boundaries of the United States moved; my family didn't. I am Mexican, and I am proud of my people and my culture. I want to be able to share my culture with others. Yet, it has been my experience here at ND, that in order to share my culture I must justify my background against many inaccurate stereotypes. I hope and pray that rather than view this incident as a racial war, we view it as an opportunity to grow and learn. We need to face the fact that we DO need to change and actively strive to do so. I am not a victim, and I do not need anyone's pity. Rather, I am a strong individual who challenges the Notre Dame community to ask God for the serenity to accept the things we cannot change, the courage to change the things we can, and the wisdom to know the difference. 
Burgandie Montoya Sophomore, Welsh Family Hall November 6, 1997 


Rethinking Sensitivity and Progress at ND 
I am writing in response to "Ignorance and Insensitivity: Why Does It Hurt So Bad?" published on Nov. 5 by Michael Fierro. Even though I am MeXican, I found both the editorial and the comic strip to be quite amusing. But before I get further into this article, I want to clear up any doubts as to my ethnic descent because of my name. My mother's side of the family comes from a region of Mexico known as Michuacan, and my father's side of the family immigrated from the Middle East. Combine the two and you get a Mexican with a name like Kareem. 
First, I am having trouble trying to find the connection between Mr. Sullivan's comic strip and deep religious themes in Mr. Fierro's editorial. Honestly, I found it to be a bit of a stretch. But, just for the sake of argument, let's assume that inside the fate­ful Halloween edition of "Men About Campus" was a subliminal, racist and anti­Catholic message aimed at provoking the true feelings that lie within the subcon­scious of every Notre Dame student. 
Mr. Fierro raised a question asking "How Catholic is Notre Dame?" He proceeded to quote scriptures, raise other questions, write really deep things, claim we don't care, say how much it offended him and all of the other Hispanics, and claim Caucasian ignorance. To quickly paraphrase his arti­cle, h~ claimed that Notre Dame is not as Catholic as it claims to be, and that by pub­lishing the "comic strip" we are really hurt­ing ourselves, others and Christ. 
Well, let me tell you just how Catholic Notre Dame really and truly is. Using statis­tics given to me by the Institutional Research department, I would like to quick­ly spit out some of the most superficial ones: 
86.11 percent of Notre Dame students are CATHOLIC, about 60 percent of Notre Dame students devote between one to two hours weekly at a Roman CATHOLIC Mass, and 
78.7 percent feel it was important that Notre Dame functioned as a CATHOLIC institution. 
Another question raised in the article was "Have people failed to comprehend the teachings and messages of the Risen Christ?" Well, according to the Center for Social Concerns, the Notre Dame student body hasn't. Every year 3,100 students do volunteer service projects, whether it be in South Bend, post-graduate, summer ser­vice, service during breaks, or the Urban Plunge. That's a lot of service, especially considering the fact that only 10,275 stu­dents attend this University at all. 
I also feel compelled to throw my two cents in about race relations here at Notre Dame. Being a minority, I am in a unique position. It is true; racism exists under the Golden Dome, like everywhere else, and is perhaps perpetuated even more by Notre Dame's primarily homogenous nature. However, at Notre Dame we are blessed with the potential to transcend such racism, due to the intelligent and empathetic stu­dents that the school attracts. As far as I am concerned, the way we seek to dissolve the racial problems is not by throwing up one's hands in disgust and channeling all of one's actions into the Hispanic community. Rather, there is a need to approach the situ­ation with patience and a desire to better the school by educating those who need to be educated, for the way to progress at Notre Dame as well as the world outside is to change people's minds and attitudes. 
I have a theory as to why these claims are made. Whether intentional or not, the cam­pus life here at Notre Dame revolves around the dorms. From day one, we have been taught that the people in our dorms are friends and family. They are whom we should know and associate with. I, as well as many others, chose to come to Notre Dame rather than to other schools because of the closeness which exists within the dorm rather than in a fraternity. 
On the other side of the spectrum exist the various multicultural clubs weich were originally intended to complement dorm life by giving students an opportunity to social­ize with members of their ethnic back­grounds. For the most part, this goal has worked beautifully. However, those who supercede dorm life for minority club life are the source of bitterness. It is the people who integrate themselves into dorm life that are the ones who ultimately change the school for the better. 
Kareem Hajjar 
Sophomore, Alumni Hall 
November 5, 1997 





ACCENT
page 10 Friday, November 7, 1997 


Tattoos and body piercing inv~ 
By ASHLEIGH THOMPSON 
Accent Writer 

eedles. Blood. And a lot of pain. Not only are more and more pe subjecting themselves to this willingly, but they're even paying mt for it. What used to be a Hell's Angels trademark can now be fashion show runways and MTV videos. It's art, it's addictive, 

· yes, it's trendy. Welcome to the world of tattoos and body · 
While nowadays it could get you kicked out of your house, piercing comprises an tant aesthetic of traditional Indian culture, and tattoos trace back as far as Egypt. Fine tattoos were once a sign of good breeding in New Zealand, even though recently in the United States have these forms of expression extended to people than sailors, soldiers and criminals. Many American youth, regardless of their cu religion or parent's wishes, disregard these thoughts of the past to enjoy an expressio today. And some of them even go to Notre Dame. 
Yes, our conservative campus is being invaded with liberals. has been replaeed with back-to-school piercing. Now before any shocked alumni draw their contributions, it must be mentioned that these expressive Notre Dame dents back their actions with some pretty deep motives. 
One Dillon man chose his family erest and a Celtie religious piece for tattoo designs would be personally meaningful. Another student believes that her butterfly tattoo bolizes a kirid of freedom and individual beauty. During high school, senior S Dunne promised herself a congratulatory shamrock tattoo if she was accepted into Dame. The answer when one woman was asked why she chose a globe tattoo for hip? "I got it so I'd always remember when I was 18 and wanted to rule the world." 
The reasons given vary, but some similarities remain. Not only is most body art tively expensive, it really hurts. Aside from childbirth, enduring bod~' art ean be the intense pain ever experienced, at least voluntarily. Tattoo sensations have described as all your nerves being electrocuted at once. Yet others love it, claiming the type of pain that wants to keep you coming back for more. 
And they do come baek for more. Tattoos and body-piercing are highly Outside the Niles, Mich. Michiana Tattoo Emporium is a sign that reads, Tattoos may become habit forming." Despite the pain and cost, most people with or piercing say they love their body art and would do it again. 
A junior from Ohio explained that in a fickle world where marriages, money, ments and even family are insecure, her tattoo is something that will always be with h With justifications like those, it's not hard to understand why body art is permeating much of the fashion and entertainment. industry. 
"Hockin' Hobin" Antolovich, artist and owner of Michiana Tattoo Emporium, bel that tattoos and piercing are not necessarily trendy, they're just becoming more ac ed. Despite Notre Dame's traditionally conservative reputation, Hockin' Hobin a that they've see:1 quite a few Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students within the pas years. He describes his typical clientele as middle class, usually between the ages 
and 30. 

Surprisingly enough, about 60 percent of his customers are women. At Mich Tattoo, navels are most eommonly chosen for piercing, and personal designs are gai popularity over the more than 6000 tattoo designs offered. Prices start at $40 and 
exceed $5000. And don't forget that as far as the tattoos are concerned, they're per nent. Maybe it's this permanency that lends tattoos their allure. Dunne confesses that o in a while she'll get worried when she realizes her tattoo will be on her ankle fore While body piercing can always be taken out, tattoos are basically there for the I haul, and what seemed like a good idea when everyone else got one too might not se 
Graphics courtesy of http://www.BMF.freeQ.com 



-----·~-------~--------------~-------------------------------------------­
Friday, November 7, 1997 page 11 



de Notre Dame 
very attractive on a wedding day. Or when you're 55. As they say, sexy now, stretched out  
later.  
Tattoos invoke feelings of mystique and rebellion. Maybe its just the desire to feel differ­ 
ent. The personal need to define oneself as special merits nothing but laughter in contem­ 
ple  porary society however, when thousands of members of the same generation feel the exact  
ey  same personal need at the exact same time. Attend any arena show, especially  
on  Lollapalooza. and watch the pop-culure exception instantly become the norm.  
nd  Those with pierces and tattoos on this campus often do stand out, though. Students  
describe snotty comments they've received and roommates who couldn't look at their  
or- pierces for weeks. But all agree that what anyone else thinks doesn't matter; you get a tat­ 
ent  too for your own expression and enjoyment.  
nly  On the other hand, what members of the opposite sex think may indeed be relevant.  
her  Whether people admit to liking them or not, there is a degree of intrigue involved when  
re,  someone discovers that a tastefully-placed belly ring lies under layers of clothing.  
of  This exotic, sensual quality may have something to do with body art's growing populari­ 
ty. Michiana Tattoo J'<:mporium bumper stickers read, "It's No Sin, Skin Is In." Whether  
ing  people keep it in or flaunt it out is a whole separate question.  
th- So if you have the money and the pain tolerance, feel like there's no better time to  
tu­ become a human palette and are sure your parents won't stop paying your tuition, pre­ 
pare for your virtual tattoo studio experience.  
1at  
m­ ~'!Initially, the number of tattoos displayed boggles the mind. Casually walking around  
on  the studio will not only give you a chance to check out all the interesting designs, but it will  
tre  probably do a lot to mentally prepare you for what is to come. Friends are useful for  
er  moral support, and may have some good advice on dining hall protocol after a tongue  
piercing.  
la­ 
st  ~After inquiring about procedure and negotiating cost, make sure to ask whether the  
en  studio regularly tests their artists for AIDS and Hepatitis B. Gloves and new needles are a  
t's  must. Now sit back in your chair and relax. In a few hours you won't even remember the  
pain. Well, at least in a few weeks.  
e.  
n:  ~Whether people use body art to feel more attractive, express themselves or just to fol­ 
os  low the alterna-fad leader obviously depends on the individual. Regardless of personal  
motivations, tattoos and body piercing may be here to stay, or at least for the remainder of  
n- the 1990s "Express Yourself' decade.  
~r.  
so  -ctThe logical question finally surfaces: Is all of this expense and pain really worth it?  
Will the personal statement one wants to make when he or she is 20 be the same state­ 
'S  ment he or she wants to make for a lifetime? Skeptics happily await the inevitable: the day  
.­ this mania subsides as Generation Xers trade in their flannels and body glitter for suits  
s  and families. Only time can bring the verdict.  
'V  
6  If nothing else, older generations are reminded once again that today's youth have some­ 
thing to say. Grandmothers and metal detectors may not approve, but few can disagree  
a  that body art takes freedom of expression to a whole new level.  
g  
Jl  
.l­ 

te 
r. 
tg 
m 
page 12 The Observer • SPORTS Friday, November 7, 1997 
•NHl 

Blackhawks continue winning streak 
Associated Press 
CHICAGO James Black beat Grant Fuhr with a 30-foot slap shot with 
1:31 to play Thursday night, lift­ing the Chicago Blackhawks to a 2-1 victory over the St. Louis Blues and their first four-game winning streak in more than a year. 
Eric Daze also scored and Chris Terreri made 15 saves for the Blackhawks, who swept a four-game homestand after los­ing five of their first six games at the United Center. 
Steve Duchesne scored for the Blues, who have their first two­game losing streak this season after an 11-2-2 start. 
Brent Sutter worked the puck free along the far boards to Kevin Miller, who passed to Black at the top of the right cir­cle. Black slapped a shot high to Fuhr's stick side for his first goal since April 13. 
Chicago, which last had a four­game winning streak in October 1996, is 6-3 since its 0-7 start. 
Terreri, who has started 14 consecutive games, has allowed only five goals during the win­ning streak to lower his goals­against average to 2.11. Jeff Hackett, the team's No. 1 goal­tender, got hurt in the season's second game but is now healthy, creating an interesting "prob­lem" for coach Craig Hartsburg. 
Terreri was going for his third shutout in 15 days before Duchesne beat him with a slap shot at 9:31 of the third period. It was the 600th career point for Duchesne, who leads NHL defensemen with 18 points this season. 
Just 1 1/2 minutes into the game, the Blues' Joe Murphy sprained his left wrist crashing into the boards. He didn't return and his status will be evaluated 

Frid~y. 
Senators 4. Coyotes 1 

Phil Crowe scored the game­winning goal three minutes after his penalty for high-sticking cost the Senators a goal as Ottawa defeated the Phoenix Coyotes 4-1 Thursday night. 
The win gave the Senators a share of first place with the Boston Bruins in the NHL's Northeast Division. 
Alexandre Daigle, Shawn McEachern and Shaun Van Allen also scored for Ottawa, which improved to 9-4-3 overall and to 5-2-1 at home. 
The Senators were well-rested, coming off a four-day break, but the game marked the start of seven games in 12 nights for the club. 
It was the second stop on a three-game road swing for the Coyotes, 4-2 losers in Montreal on Wednesday. Phoenix (6-7-2) has lost four straight and has won only one of six road games this season. 
Jeremy Roenick beat Ottawa goaltender Damian Rhodes from inside the blue line to open the scoring on a power play 4:28 into the game. Roenick's seventh goal of the season came while Crowe sat out a double minor for high-sticking. 
Crowe redeemed himself in his first game back from a shoulder injury, scoring at 7:21 to give Ottawa the lead. 
Crowe scored just 20 seconds after Daigle skated out from behind the Phoenix net and put his own rebound past Nikolai Khabibulin, who made his 57th consecutive start for the Coyotes. McEachern notched his team­leading ninth goal from a scram­ble in front of Khabibulin 33 sec­onds into the final period. 
Van Allen completed the scor­ing with 6:13 remaining, which was played before a season-low crowd of 13,437 at the Corel Centre. 
Flyers 6, Oilers 2 
John LeClair had two goals and three assists and his Philadelphia teammates held Edmonton to a season-low 20 shots as the Flyers defeated the Oilers 6-2 Thursday night. 
Petr Svoboda, Rod Brind'Amour, Dainius Zubrus, and Chris Gratton also scored for the Flyers, who scored all of their goals in quick bursts to win their second straight game and snap a three-game home winless streak (0-2-1). 
Greg de Vries and Craig Millar scored for Edmonton, which is winless (0-2-2) on its current road trip. Philadelphia converted a season-high four power plays. 
LeClair, who leads the NHL with 15 goals, had another goal disallowed late in the second period when he was charged with goaltender interference. 
Philadelphia goaltender Garth Snow (4-4) was seldom tested. His best stop came late in the second period when he made a glove save on Dean McAmmond's shot from the slot. 
The Flyers held the Oilers to a pair of shots in the first period ­another season low -and took advantage of a double-minor penalty to Dan MeGillis for high­stieking to score two power-play goals within a 1:38 span. 
Svoboda put the Flyers ahead 1-0 with a 20-foot shot from the slot off Bob Essena's blocker at 
5:50 of the first. Brind'Amour made it 2-0 when he tipped in Pat Falloon's shot from outside the right cirde at 7:28. 
Edmonton, which didn't get its first shot on goal until 4:51 remained in the period, scored on its second attempt at 7:13 when de Vries' shot from the left circle bounced off Falloon's stick into the net. The Flyers broke it open in a 1 :03 span in the sec­ond period when LeClair fed Zubrus from behind the net at 3:20, then scored himself with a slap shot from the top of the cir­ele at 4:23. With Edmonton's Doug Weight off for another high-sticking double minor, the Flyers scored twice within 1:56 seconds in the third period on Gratton's first goal since opening night and LeClair's 14th goal in his last 12 games. LeClair has seored goals in five straight games. 
Millar gave Edmonton its sec­ond goal at 12:39 of the period when he was left alone in front of the net. 
Philadelphia eaptain Eric Lindros, who leads the league in scoring with 25 points, was scratched because of bruised ribs sustained in the Flyers' 4-1 win at St. Louis on Monday. 
Panthers 4, Sabres 2 
Florida goaltender Mark Fitzpatrick earned his first victo­ry since last December as the Panthers broke a three-game losing streak with a 4-2 win over the Buffalo Sabres on Thursday night. 
Sabres forward Curtis Brown had a goal taken away when he poked in a rebound with 2:28 remaining, but off-ice officials ruled Buffalo defenseman Jason Woolley was in the Florida crease. 
Replays showed Woolley was pushed in by Panthers forward Bill Lindsay. Florida forward Chris Wells then put Buffalo away with an empty-net goal with 13 seeonds left. 
Fitzpatriek, the baekup to John Vanbiesbrouek. was 0-10-8 since last Dec. 23, when he beat the New York Islanders. His most recent loss was to Buffalo in overtime on Saturday. 
Dave Nemirovsky's goal with 
6:58 left in the second period turned out to be the game win­ner. Panthers defenseman Terry Carkner helped preserve the win when he swept away Alexei Zhitnik's shot at the Florida goal line with 6:53 left in the third period. 
Brian Holzinger had one goal and one assist, and Dixon Ward added the other goal for the Sabres. Bill Lindsay and Rob Niedermayer added goals, and defenseman Robert Svehla had two assists for the Panthers. 
The Panthers were playing their second game without head eoaeh Doug MaeLean, who was serving the second of a two­game suspension for abusing an official after a game against Buffalo last Saturday. 
Nemirovsky scored the game­winner when he one-timed Hay Whitney's pass from the right cirele and handcuffed Sabres goalie Dominik Hasek before the puck trickled into the net. Holzinger had seored his first goal in three weeks and tied the game at 2-2 when he redirected Miroslav Satan's eross-ice pass past Fitzpatrick in the Florida goal erease. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day clas­
Classifieds sifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
Brass bed, queen size with orthope­4 ND-WVU football tickets for sale. here it is dic mattress set and frame. New, Call 860-623-3682. 
~---N_o_T_Ic_Es___.JI I WANTED II......._F_O_R_RE_N_T_ __. never used, still in plastic. $250.00 I need to get a ride to OMAHA, 
219-862-2082. NOTRE DAME NEBRASKA for thanksgiving. 0¢0 THE COPY SHOP 000 Gold!! Wanted reps., unlimited WALK TO CAMPUS FOOTBALL TICKETS please help me!!! will pay gas, tolls. LaFortune Student Center earning potential!! 2-5 BEDROOM HOMES Brand New Computers -BUY · SELL -TRADE and any other expenses :P (within 
Store Hours 616-461-6772. $195/PERSON 200MHz, 32 MB RAM, 33.6k reason. or state law, whichever Mon.-Thur.: 7:30 a.m.-Midnight 232-2595 modem, 1.6GB hard drive, 20X 232-0058 comes first. Fri.: 7:30 a.m.-7:00p.m. MODELS/DANCERS WANTED CD-ROM, Sound Card, 60W Sat.: Noon-6:00p.m. please call 219-271-0633 HOUSE FOR RENT. FALL 98. speakers, 14" monitor. CONFIDENTIAL I have a linear test that I need to Sun.: Noon-Midnight 4/5 BR. 1 BATH. WASH/DRY. $1250 + shipping. TICKET·MART. INC. study for. by the time I read this, it {closed home football Sat.'s) NO Prof. needs babysitter for infant DISHWASHER. DISPOSAL. Call Julie at {970) 221-0494 will be over. party time baby. 
Phone 631-COPY next semester T/Th: 11 :30-3:30; FRIDGE. NEW GAS FURNACE. BUY/SELL NO SEASON AND INDI­
MWF flexible. Call Dr. Braungart­2 BLOCKS FROM NO. HAS SECU­Honda Accord Hatchback VIDUAL GAME TICKETS. thanks to thomas roland former SUN. SURF. SAND. SUDS, and Rieker: 631-6914 RITY SYSTEM. 1987. 93K miles. 674-7645. famed resisdent of keough hall for S... Spring Break with Bianchi­(office); 233-1268(home). 289-4712 v. good condition. 1 owner. food and kindness rendered. Rossi Tours in Acapulco! Packages $3,000 631-8672 NO FOOTBALL TICKETS from $425.90. Party packages Tutor wanted for basic computer FOR SALE julie and heather will be the prettiest includes: FREE cover, VIP service, help. Call 234-8938 after 5. ROOMS IN PRIVATE HOME FOR Near Campus-1338 Miner St. DAYTIME#: 232-2378 girls at the McGlinn SYR. drink one & more. Call for info 800-875-4525. FOOTBALL WEEKENDS AND 2 BR Enclosed Front Porch. New EVENING#: 288-2726 for me. ladies. www.bianchi-rossi.com OTHER ND-SMC EVENTS. Roof, Siding & Carpet. LOW PRICES 
Wanted female helper for errands VERY CLOSE TO CAMPUS · 5 Central Air & Full Basement be very scared 
and babysitting. Call MIN. DRIVE OR 15-20 MIN. WALK. $44.900 1-800-382-2952 FOR SALE GREAT RESUMES! Only 4 mi. 234-8938 after 5. 243-0658. ADOPTION Happily married couple from NO campus on U.S. 31/33. '87 BMW 325, 6CYL,5SPD,EXC., N.D. G.A."S with lots of love to share with new­Call (616)684-4633. COND.-MECH. & BODY. $5750. 271-9412. born. Can help with doctor bills. 
TELECOUNSELORS THAT PRETIY PLACE, Bed and 291-8361 {LV.MSG.) Please. call 1-800-484-6399 X2706. SMC Admission Office is seeking Breakfast Inn has space available WANTED N 0 G A'S Spring Break '98 SMC students to make calls to for football/parent wknds. 5 Rooms TO ALL HOME GAMES 000 THE COPY SHOP 000
TICKETS

Cancun, Jamaica, Bahamas, & prospective students with private baths, $70-$90, 271 1526 LaFortune Student Center Florida. Group Discounts & Free M-TH 3-5 hrs/wk Middlebury. 30 miles from campus. " High-Speed Copies Drink Parties! Sell Trips, Earn Cash Call Bobbi Wiseman 284-4587 Toll Road, Exit #107, "HAVE 1 G.A. FOR We NEED 2 GA's for WV " Canon Color Laser Copies & Go Free! 1-800-418-9487. WEST VIRGINIA" lv. msg. {800)321-4110x10986 " Digital Color Printing 1-800-234-7007 1997-98 NATIONAL PARK 4-3391 
" Binding & Laminating www.endlesssummertours.com EMPLOYMENT -Work in America's 
"Public Fax Service 631-FAX1 

PERSONAL
National Parks, Forests & Wildlife 1,2 & 3 BDRM HOMES.GILLIS Wanted: Individual wants tickets for Phone 631-COPY Will TYPE thesis.term papers, Preserves. Companies hire entry PROPERTIES. LSU/Notre Dame Game. Will pay resumes.etc. IBM & MAC-Word, leveVskilledlvolunteer workers. cash. Phone {31 8)752-1208 or ADOPTION -LOOK NO FURTHER HERE. THERE BE DRAGONS. WP,Excei,Pgmkr,Ciaris,Photo Summer/Year-round. Competitive 272-6551 {318)747-8820. A newspaper ad led me to DEBBIE Shop.Call LINDA 1-9468. wages & bonuses! We can help you & MIKE 2 years ago & I chose them the glass and the wizard rules. 
make the connection. {517)324-NO VS.W. VA TIX to adopt my baby. They"re wonder­reading beats soap operas any day 
3082 ext. N55841 6 BDRM HOME NEXT FALL.272-FOR SALE 273-3911 LEAVE ful parents and I couldn't be happier Ever Dreamed of Your Own 6551 MESSAGE with my choice. I'm thrilled that they Tenille. thanks for your patience. Business? SMC Junior seeking 2 roommates want to adopt again! They're fun, Brad 
TASP International seeks students for 98-99 year for TC apartments. NICE HOMES FOR NEXT SEMES­4 GA's W. Virginia 4sale affectionate, professional. stable & for next summer who want entre­284-4379 TER AND NEXT SCHOOL YEAR Best Offer 44982 easy to talk to. I'll gladly talk with TO "EVERY BREATH YOU TAKE"': preneurial and management experi­2773097 you too. (888)690-BABY or check Stalking is NOT cool, OK? ence. Positive attitude a must. Full Loving caregiver needed 2nd sem. ++++++++++++++++ their web site at Please stop NOW. training. Earn $8K to $10K. CALL 1-for 2 boys, 1 & 3. For Sale: WWW.MEETUS.COM -L.A.
FOR SALE
800-543-3792. T/Th all day,5 min. from 2 West Virginia student tickets campus. Need own car. 237-1981. (not GA's) BOIS!! This should've run on the SAVE YOUR PARENTS/YOUR­call Jenny @ 687 ·8435 Michiana Paintball at Scottsdale 31st. Bon anniversaire. Love. HILOST & FOUND I "Spring Break.. ."Take 2"•• SELF MONEY! ++++++++++++++++ Mall. Hiring Reps! Sell15 .. Take 2 Free. 131 minutes of long distance calls 
Now open for indoor/outdoor play. Let's go PE! Its time to take the title Lost: Set of Keys Hot destinations! Free Parties. for only $25! Rate is lower than call­ALUMNI DESPARATE for Students w/ND-SMC ID-1/2 price from Lyons! With Chrysler Remote Eats, Drinks. SunSplash 1-800-426-ing cards, collect calls & 800 ser­W Virginia tix {2-4). Carrie field fee. 291-2540. 4-4982 771 0/www .sunsplashtours.com vice. 277-3318 {713)526-6393/{713)753-5324 I get to go home now. Yeah. 


Friday, November 7, 1997 The Observer • SPORTS page13 
• Wom.n CuP SoccER 
USA faces Canada for chance at World Cup 
The Associated Press 
BURNABY, British Columbia 
With a win and some help from Mexico and Jamaica, the United States can clinch a World Cup berth Sunday when it plays Canada. 
The Americans (2-1-5) have 11 points and are third in the six-team final round of soccer's North and Central American region. To qualify with one game to spare, the Americans need Mexico to beat or tie visit­ing Costa Rica and need .Jamaica to get a tie or win at El Salvador. 
And the United States must 
beat Canada while missing mid­
fielders .John Barkes (suspend­
ed) and Tab Hamos (injured), 
starting goalkeeper Kasey 
Keller (injured) and defender 
Jeff Agoos (suspended). 
"The World Cup is Sunday. 
It's not next .June, it's this 
weekend," American coach 
Steve Sampson said. 
Canada (1-4-3) has virtually 
no chance to qualify. It would 
University of Notre Dame Department of Music presents 
~be JFlotre 1!\ame <!Cborale & <!Cbamber (!&rcbestra 
Alexander I!lachly, Director 

Music of:  DuFay  Palestrina  
Schutz  Bach  Brahms  
8:00p.m.  

Wed., Nov.12 Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
Free &open to the public. 




Tomassito•sSM 


at The Huddle 
7 pm -1 am 
Sun.· Sat. 
Try our Hot Hreadsticks and Marinara Sauce 
r.-----r-----r.----­
Large 1 Topping I Large 
I  Pizza w1th  I I  Cheese Pizza  
8 Breadsticks and Sauce  1 1  with 2 Liter Soda  
I I  
$6.99  1 I  $6.99  
~ffe~pire2!'ed.~/26~  _,  1 _Effer~ire~ed.~/26~  

need victories against the United States and Costa Rica (2-4-2), plus the right combina­tion of other results to ensure that 12 points is enough to get one of the region's three berths. 
"What we've got to do is just play for our pride and play for yourselves," Canada coach Bob Lenarduzzi said. "You never know who's watching.... A good performance could result in a player enhancing his cur­rent position." 
The Americans would prefer not to need any points going into their final game, against El Salvador (2-3-3) on Nov. 16 at Foxboro, Mass. Mexico (4-0-4) already has clinched one berth,and Jamaica (3-2-3) is second with 12 points, one ahead of the U.S. team. 
The Americans beat Canada 3-0 on March 16 at Stanford, Calif., taking a two-goal lead after just 14 minutes thanks to a penalty kick and a Canadian defensive blunder. 

10 pm • 1am 
Football Fri. and Sat. 



1-6902 
Free Delivery on Campus 
I Larg~ 1 Topping I 
I I  P1zza w1th  1  
1  1  4Pepperoni & Mozzarella  1  
I I  Breadsticks &Sauce  
1.1  $6.99  
_,  I _Effer~ire~ed.~/26~  _,  

to Smith and Big East first 

•n"""''"''~ other play;.. teams iri 
VU<l~lllj.jiHJHShip~ 
ard Jen midfielder and senior 

u"''"lJLuer Sara . represent · hlle Notre Jn<~t:;ll•u freshman for· . Erikson, sopbo­Jen Grubb, fresh· midfielder Anne rvt:i:l>ll..tutaJ, senior midfielqkfr· !•~<UH.UP1 (lhd SOphomore 
emtlketeo•~r La~eysia Beene squad. :VJJ}anova senipr Maura McGhe'e 
~....,.....,.... out the team. ~· 
• MAJOR lEAGUE BASEBALL 
Brewers excited about switch 
The Associated Press 
MILWAUKEE 
For the Milwaukee Brewers, switching to the National League is like "coming home," Bud Selig said Thursday. 
"(There is) sadness over the prospect of ending a 28-year relationship with the American 
· League and its member clubs and anticipation over returning Milwaukee to its roots in the National League," said Selig, baseball's acting commissioner and the Brewers' controlling owner. 
Milwaukee, the home of the NL's Braves from 1953-65, leaves the AL Central to play in a six-team NL Central. The switch, approved Wednesday by the ruling executive council, is the first in the major leagues since the 1892 season and leaves the NL with16 teams and the AL with 14. 
The league switch marks the first for a major league baseball team since the American Association folded on Dec. 17, 1891, and the NL agreed to absorb the St. Louis franchise and three teams that later fold­ed -Baltimore, Louisville and Washington. 
"Those of us old enough re­member the glory days of Aaron, Mathews and Logan, and Spahn and Burdette, re­view this as coming home," Selig said. 
Interleague play showed "our National League roots are strong," he said, alluding to last summer's games against Chicago Cubs, St. Louis Cardinals, Cincinnati Reds, Pittsburgh Pirates and Houston Astros. 
While Milwaukee has been an American League town since the Seattle Pilots moved there prior to the 1970 season and became 


the Brewers, the NL's Braves moved from Boston to Milwaukee 
on March 18, 1953, in base­ball's first franchise shift since 1903. But the Braves, who won the World Series in 1957 and an NL pennant the following year, were given approval by the NL on Nov. 7, 1964, to move to Atlanta for the 1966 season.• 
The original Milwaukee Brewers played in the American League in 1901, fin­ishing last at 48-89, then became the St. Louis Bruwns that Dec. 3 and transformed into the Baltimore Orioles on Sept. 29, 1953. 
As part of the realignment, the expansion Tampa Bay Devil Rays will join the AL East and the Detroit Tigers will shift to the AL Central and the expan­sion Arizona Diamondbacks will join the NL West. 
page 14 The Observer • SPORTS Friday, November 7, 1997 


Metcalf frustrated with playing time 
Associated Press 
SAN DIEGO 
Add former Pro Bowler Terry Metcalf to the list of people mystified at the way son Eric is being used -or rather. not used -in the San Diego Chargers' offense. 
A slot receiver used pri­marily on third downs, Eric Metcalf has just 14 recep­tions for 242 yards and no touchdowns in nine games. In the previous two seasons at Atlanta. he caught 158 passes (or 1,788 yards and 14 touchdowns. -"I don't understand it," Terry Metcalf said Thursday. "My thing is, you've got a race horse, put him in the race." 
Eric Metcalf had a big game Sunday at Cincinnati, with two thrilling, record­setting punt returns for touchdowns that the Chargers wasted by losing 38-31. 
The Chargers (4-5) came up with the idea of having Terry Metcalf come down from Seattle to surprise his son and present him with the NFL Player of the Week award. 
It was a surprise all right. Father and son hugged, and talkedabout how proud they were of each other. 
But it also gave Terry Metcalf. a former running back and return specialist for St. Louis and Washington, a chance to comment on his son's sea­son. 
Terry Metcalf said he doesn't even have to speak with his son to know he's 
frustrated. 
"I thought it was going to 
be different than what it is 
right now. He thought it 
was," the elder Metcalf told 
reporters before presenting 
his son with a commemora­
tive football. "It's kind of 
shocking the way it is. It's 
devastating to him." 
Eric laughed when he 
heard of his father's com­
ments, and tried to be as 
diplomatic as possible. 
"It's just something that I would never expect," he said. "Even in my wildest _imagination I wouldn't think that after nine games I would have 14 catches and 
no touchdowns. 
''I'd like to get the ball as 
many times as I can. It's just 
a matter of me going out 
there and focusing and try­
ing to get open, trying to 
beat my man and be ready 
when the time comes." 
Signed in May, just before 
the Chargers' second mini­
camp, Metcalf, 29, was con­
sidered the team's prize of­
fensive free agent catch. The 
Chargers billed him as a 
threat to score every time he 
touches the ball. 
He showed his talent on 
Sunday. "And that's just 
touching it. twice," Terry 
Metcalf said. 
Eric Metcalf set an NFL 
record for combined punt 
and kickoff returns for 
scores (10), and became the 
first NFL player to run back 
two punts for touchdowns 
twice in his career. The 
ninth-year pro improved his 
average from 7.5 yards per 
punt return to 12.8, second­
best in the AFC. 

Butler to stay in Green Bay 
All-Pro defensive 
back values team over money 
Associated Press 
GHEEN BAY, Wis. 
LeRoy Butler, who signed a contract extension with the Green Bay Packers on Thursday, didn't want to test free agency because "it would almost be a little embarrassing to go anywhere else." 
''I'm not sure how much I could have gotten on the open market, I don't really care," Butler said after signing a five­year extension believed to be worth $15 million, including a $5 million signing bonus. 
"The only thing I know is I'm very happy now," Butler said. 
Butler, 29, a second-round draft pick out of Florida State in 1990 and a two-time All-Pro, said he would have been uncomfortable playing any­where other than Green Bay. 
"It just means more to me when kids see my football card in just a greel) and gold uni­form and not with three and four different teams because of financial reasons," said Butler, who is being paid $1.6 million this season. 
Agent Gene Burrough said: "I think I could have gotten him considerably more money in free agency. There are a num­ber of teams that could use LeRoy Butler. But he feels com­fortable here. He can be him­self." 
Burrough and team negotia­tor Mike Reinfeldt said they agreed on length and term of the contract months ago but spent weeks hashing out the details of the deal, which runs through 2002. 
"We got the term we wanted, we got the average we wanted, the rest was just-structure, making sure we didn't get too much in the back end," Burrough said. 
Players try to get as much of 

.. when.§ee·.. -···.· foMtball card in just a green and gold uniform arid not with three and four differ­ent teams because of financial reasons.' 
LeRoy Butler Green Bay defensive back 
their total money in the early years of their deals because most NFL contracts aren't guaranteed. Butler's deal ranks him with Dallas' Darren Woodson and 
Tennessee's Blaine Bishop, both of whom have six-year, $18 million contracts. 
"It's not a record-breakirig deal, it's just a good deal," Burrough said. "A good deal compared to the other safeties. 

He's among the highest-paid, of course. In a number-of ways, it's better structured." 
Burrough said the deal was heavily front-loaded. "When you get into some of these big d-eals you read about, like (San Francisco 49ers safety) Merton Hanks, he got 80 percent of his money in the last three years," Burrough said. "I didn't want that. Because getting older, you just don't want to push all that money back. 
"So I'm very pleased that 80 percent of his money is in the front, in the first three years. I say about 80 percent, I didn't do the percentage. Let's say most of it is in the first three years," Burrough said. 
Butler agreed to a 1998 salary low enough for the team to sign some of its other free agents, such as running back Dorsey Levens and cornerback Doug Evans. 
"That was very important to me," Butler said, "because if we can keep a core of our play­ers, we'II continue to win for a long time." . 
Butler has followed up his All-Pro season with a team­leading five interceptions, 58 tackles, a sack and eight pass­es defended in nine games this year. 
He had five interceptions and a career-best 6 1/2 sacks in 1996, just one-half sack shy of the NFL single-season record for defensive backs set by Chicago safety Dave Duerson in 1986. 
He has 31 career intercep­tions. 
• SPORTS BRIEFS 
..... •·Notre Dame Martial Arts Institute-Tae kwon do and jujitsu practice for beginners will take place from<! to 6 p.m. Thursdays agg6 to 8 p.m. on Sundays in Room 218 Rockne Memorial. :Allare weleome. . .· J;t• t
t 

Field Hockey -Practice will be on Mondays and Wednesdays from 9 to 10 p.m. in Loftus. Call Maure~n at x4281 or Stephanie at x274l with any questions. 
·::~w:·: .. 



Q)QQQQ 
International Juggling Champion a 
a

Mark Nizer 
Q
will be performing at 
Washington Hall 


Friday, November 7th at 9:15 p.m.Q Free admission 
Comedy and Juggling on the Edge 
Come see Mark juggle 4 laser Beams, 5 ping pong balls thrown 20 feet in the air using only his mouth, a running electric carving knife and a 16 pound bowling ball (not at the same time). 
.· r?\ (?'\ ~ponsored by Student Activities and0 "---.) "-.__) 'l) <() the ND Juggling Club 
CINEMA AT THE SNITE 
presented by Notre Dame Communication and Theatre 
631-7361 
1996 
cannes winner special jury prize for originality, daring, and audacity 
"LOCKUP GRANDMA AND BLINDFOLD THE KIDS. 'CRASH' IS HERE TO RAISE HELL! Cronenberg has created a world that is 
perversely fascinating!" 
-peter travers, rolling stone 
"Sleek and emotional...this movie is bumper-to-bumper sex." 
-jack mathews, newsday 
"The hydrogen bomnb of shock movies. It's the apotheosis of auto eroticism." 
-jack kroll, newsweek 
"A brave, unprecedented movie, 'CRASH' is a classic!" 
-georgia brown, the village voice 
~---------------------------; james spader holly hunter 
afilm by david cronenberg 





CRASH 
SHOWING FRIDAY & SATURDAY 
7:30 and 9:45 p.m. 
$2 

http://www.nd.edu/-cothweb/wwwsnite.html 
---~~­

Friday, November 7, 1997 The Observer • SPORTS page 15 
• VOLLEYBAll 
Notre Dame closes regular season -with home match 

By BILL HART Sports Writer 
The Irish volleyball squad returns to the friendly confines of the Joyce Center this week­end, taking on two conference opponents in the final home­stand of the season. 
The Irish begin their weekend tonight with a match against conference rival West Virginia. The Mountaineers were 2-0 in Big East action last week, defeating both Basten College and Providence in three games. They are led by sophomore Megan Porter, who recorded a double-double against the Friars with 11 kills and 13 digs. West Virginia heads into the match against the Irish 14-9 on the reg­ular season and 4-3 in confer­ence play. 
"West Virginia is a little bit better this year than they have been previously." head coach Debbie Brown said about the Mountaineers, "They're in the top half of the conference right now, so they'll probably have a shot at making the tournament field. They're not real big, but they've been playing a little bit steadier this year." 
On Sunday, the Irish will face off against Pittsburgh in the final home match of the regular sea­son. Currently tied for third place in the Big East, the Panthers also defeated Providence and Boston College to go 2-0 for last week. 
They are led by Marcie Thiesen, who scored 10 kills against the Eagles last week and 15 kills against Providence. They also head into this week­end with a record of 14-9 on the season. 
"Pittsburgh has been a little bit up and down this season, and that's mainly because they're a young team," Brown commented. "They lost a couple of key seniors last year, and while they have the capability to play at a high level, they have also had some matches where they haven't done quite as well." 
Notre Dame, on the other hand, has been on a fairly long winning streak, having won 11 of its past 12 matches. With four matches left to go in conference play, the .Irish have made their way to the top of the Big East leaderboard. 
Three Notre Dame players-senior Jaimie Lee, sophomore Mary Leffers and freshman Christi Girton -hold the top three hitting 
percentages in Big East games. Lee and fellow senior Angie Harris are currently on pace to be the first teammates to aver­age over four kills per game in a season. Notre Dame could clinch the conference regular season title if it wins both matches this weekend and sec­ond-place Villanova loses one. 
This Sunday's match also will be an important one for the team because the four seniors on the squad will be playing what could be the final matches of their four-year careers. The senior class of Lee, Harris, Molly McCarthy and Carey May has helped the Irish advance to the NCAAs for each of the past three seasons, including a visit to the regional round in 1994. 


''I'm really going to miss play­ing here a lot," McCarthy remarked. "The season went pretty quickly this year, but we're going to try to make the most of playing out there on the court." 
The match against the West Virginia begins tonight at 7 p.m., while the Sunday home finale against Pittsburgh starts at 2 p.m. 




at Marquette Northeastern 

page 16 The Observer· SPORTS 
• MEN's BASKETBALl 


Irish host Athletes in Action 
By JOE CAVATO ers, and it's going to be inter­Assistant Spans Editor esting to see how they respond to real game situations," 
After falling just a bucket MacLeod said. "So that's what shy of upsetting the Michigan we're going to be looking for Wolverines and making the on Sunday." NIT Final Four last season, the One player who MacLeod men's basketball team is anx­knows exactly how he will ious to find out what the respond to game situations will upcoming season has in store. not be wearing the Blue and 
This Sunday, the Irish will Gold. Notre Dame 1996 gradu­host Athletes in Action in the ate Ryan Hoover will make an team's first exhibition contest encore performance at the and the first opportunity to Joyce Center this Sunday, as scrimmage against someone the Athletes in Action are now else and Jearn a bit about benefiting from his sharp­themselves. shooting skills. 
"There will be a lot of in­However, MacLeod wants to formation gained from this see his freshmen in action. The game on Sunday," head coach Class of 2001, consisting of John MacLeod said. guard Martin Ingelsby and for­
MacLeod has four freshmen wards Peter Okwalinga, Ilans and several sophomores who Rasmussen, and Leviticus ar-e still relatively inexperi­Williamson, will get·<its oppor­enced and is eager to see how tunity to show the coaches the youngsters will respond what it can do in the team's come game time. only pre-season contest. 
"We've got seven young play-MacLeod is also looking for 

Nov.28  Sam Houston State  
Dec. 3  at Indiana  
Dec.6  atPittsburgh•  
Dec.9  Marathon (Exh.)  
Dec~ 14  D.rexel  1;li~il!!':  

7:00p.m. 
7:30p.m. 
7:30 p~m. 7:30p.m. 


2:oo.p-.m. &iilm, >· 
7:30p.m. ·-···-· ··-,•2:00 p-~m£;_iiri:!-lilli;w·•·-·-····-• 

certain players to fill the shoes of last year's seniors Admore White, Matt Gotsch, Peter Miller, and Marcus Young. 
"That's not an easy job to do," MacLeod said about re­placing the quartet. "Those seniors were a key part of this program." 
The front court is stabilized by the return of 1997 Big East player of the year and recently named Big East pre-season player of the year Pat Garrity, returning starter Derek Manner. and junior Phil Hickey, but the backcourt has been depleted with the gradu­ation of two starters in Miller and the floor general, White. 
"Hopefully Martin Ingclsby and Uunior) Antoni Wyche will be able to take the place of Admore and Pete," MacLeod noted. "But that won't be an easy thing to do because they were really great competitors." 
The pre-season battle for the starting point guard position between Ingelsby and sopho­more Jimmy Dillon has been won by the freshman lngelsby, but both will see plenty of time on the court. 
"Martin has the job right now, and Jimmy is going to be his backup," MacLeod explained. "But both are going to play a Jot this year and we could play both of them together at times and you could see Keith Friel and Antoni in the backcourt at the same time. We have that flexi­bility, and we have done that some in practice." 
lngelsby and Dillon have lim­ited experience at the colle­giate level, which may cause concern for the Irish. However, MacLeod feels com­fortable with the tandem. 
"I am not as concerned about the point guard situa­
Friday, November 7, 1997 
Jimmy is going to be a fine player. They're both young, but I think both will adjust very, very, quickly and both have played a lot of basket­ball." 
lngelsby was impressive in the Blue and Gold scrimmage and has continued to impress the coaches in practice. 
"Martin has played a lot of basketball and has savvy; he doesn't lose his cool and he's not a mistake maker," MacLeod observed. "He's a very efficient point guard, so we feel pretty comfortable about that spot." 
One aspect about the pre­season that must make 

HaPPY 21 Sf BirthdaY, John, YOU 

SMOOTHTALKER! 

MacLeod feel a bit uncom­fortable is seeing his su­perstar. Garrity, sitting out practices with a sore arch in his right foot, affecting his conditioning to a certain degree. 
"He is feeling good, but not great," MacLeod said. "He came into the beginning of the season in the best shape we've ever seen him. But he missed a lot of practices due to the foot problem and he lost some con­ditioning." 
Despite the sore foot, Garrity is expected to play Sunday as the IrisH continue to prepare for their season opener Nov. 17 when they host The Citadel. 
----~-----------·---------~------~----------------------------------~------..----~ 
Friday, November 7, 1997 The Observer • SPORTS page 17 

• HOCKEY 
Talent and confidence lead Irish 
By CHARLEY GATES Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame hockey team ( 4-2 overall, 1-1 in the CCHA) looks to add to its fast­growing reputation as a fright­fully good hockey team when it takes on two Central Collegiate Hockey Association opponents this weekend. 
On Friday night, the Irish host Bowling Green at the Joyce Center, and on Saturday night. they travel back to East Lansing for their third (and last of this season) game with the Michigan State Spartans. 
The Boys of Winter are com­ing off a 6-1 thrashing of the Spartans in what probably was the team's biggest victory in recent memory. Head coach Dave Poulin has worked, preached, and be­lieved in his tactics and in his players but has yet to lead the team into the coveted CCHA postseason. 
Though his squad has cer­tainly scored upsets in the past, this most recent upset is distinct because it comes on the heels of other upsets. Poulin's recruiting, his work ethic, and his coaching ability arc finally beginning to pay dividends. 
"We have built a good foun­dation over the past two years," explained senior goal­tender Matt Eisler. who has played phenomenally this sea­son. "We have put in a lot of work over the past two years but we haven't been overly successful. Now we are start­ing to get some of the success that we really started earning years ago." 
All this points to the fact that Notre Dame is most likely in a transition state, changing from role of giant-slayer to role of giant. 
Saturday's spanking of the 
Notre Dame Hockey Schedule 

Spartans very well may prove to be the defining moment of the new, quality team that Poulin is ushering in. 
Eisler is a big reason Notre Dame has already posted four victories in six games this sea­son. Last season, it took the Boys of Winter 10 games to post four wins, and by Christmas, they had only five. 
"We definitely have higher expectations this year," mused Eisler, "but this year the dif­ference is that they are more realistic." 
Asked if his early success added more pressure for him to do well because his team­mates would expect more of him, he responded, "No, I feel less pressure because there is a better team in front of me. I don't have to play exceptional­ly well for us to win. I just have to do,my job and give us solid goaltending. We have the personnel to score six goals, and that takes pressure off of me." 
What do the Irish attribute their early success to? 
"We have more talent; that's true," stated junior forward Brian Urick. "Coach Poulin has brought in a lot of great 

7:00p.m. 7:00p.m. 7:00p.m. 7:00p.m. 7:00p.m. 7:00p.m. 7:00p.m. 7:00p.m. 


The Observer/Dave Piening 
recruits. But we're also work­ing hard, and now we've had a taste of success. That gives us confidence. And once you have confidence, you're more likely to believe in yourself when the game comes down to 
the wire, and you're  more  
likely to pull out a win."  
This  weekend,  the  team  

aims to win the one-on-one battles in the corners. 
"That's something that we didn't do in the loss to Michigan State," stated Urick. 
They are also just concen­trating on their game plan. 
"We have to worry about ourselves," said Eisler. "If we play our game, we can beat anybody, and we've shown that already this season. We aren't worried about what our opponents are going to do; we worry about us." 
The big game this weekend is the Spartan-Irish rematch. Following their 6-1 loss in front of their sold-out, home stadium, the Spartans are cer­tainly aiming for revenge. 
"After the big win for them on Friday, they probably took us lightly on Saturday. But we showed them that we can win," stated Urick. 

fr•• lld.ID.fiiii.IDD ,..lib r11./.ld DD.I.Itll"tl ID A pr11p11r .ldt~DI.If.IDIII.IDD 
Nov. 7 
P.S. Dump your Boyfriend 
EVERY WEDNESDAY 
Snow Crab Legs, All-U-Can-Eat, just 15.95 9 oz. Top Sirloin Butt Steak & 1 lb. of Snow Crab Legs, just 17.95 
.i.fi~n't•W~nge bottom)me 11ew stadium, but Smiley fQr Florida M sowner H, wouldn't say whether he Wayne Huizenga. He an· would seek public financing. ~Jpunced Thursday he is .t::lose .. Huizenga said this summer 
;~9 selling the t~l!'mtoagroup he intended to sell the ·.· beaded by team president Marlins, claiming the fran-Don Smiley. chise lost $34 million this ) .•rh~ · · •. .•... le~t ~5 in• .. year. Because Huizenga also .vhto . Ii .. .. . days to owns the stadium and the net-
reach a sale agreement The work that owns the Marlins· ~king Price f?r the t~am is <;.able television rights, it !i!!!ld to bll} ~150 millioi;l> arid hnpossible to verify his claims Smiley's group reportedly has about the team's fmances. 
·. mitments for two-thirds Florida, which became the e younge~t team to win the World Series, has a payroll of about $54 million this season, ~nd H~izenga and Smiley have said it will be cut. Huizenga has said he may lower itto about $20 million, in whieh case the Marlins 
.... would likely become a sec-ond-division team. 
.......... Floridl!' spent $89 million on ··· fl'ee agents such as Moises Alou, Alex Fernandez and : Bpbby ~onilla, then agreed in 
····· il to a $61 million, six-extension with outfielder Gary Sheffield. 
Ws going to l:Je different," . id general manager Dave Dombrowski. "We're not go· g to be putting a world 
ampionship caliber team on the field." . • Another who might be leav­JrigJs ~~nager Jim Leyland. 
who left the low-budget Pittsburgh Pirates to sign a $7;5 m~llion, five-year con­tract with Florida and may exercise an escape clause in cont{'act ifthere are major 
ayrol}(ll:tts~ 
. . . "It's all up to Jim," Smiley 
.. ~mileyecboedHuizenga in said. "lf he wants to come saymg t~e. te~p ~pat w th~ A·b~ck.and manage, we'd love World Senes JUSt11 da o to have him." n~eds anew ballpark With a The franchise player may 
~~l~~ct~pl~ f?~[t5>. poo~t ~lso want-out. Gary Sheffield, att~ndap;c~.on.d@::yswhep;ram who will make $10 million threatens; •·••..•· .· .· . next year, has a no-trade 
The Marlins )vete rained Clause in his contract, but 
qlyt~icel~~ seasop(bnt Dombrowski said the outfield­. re.were 30rain delays, er has an open mind about a I~<rludmg 19 of :more. than an deal ifthere are drastic cuts. pour, S~dley ~~~g.:ma o-•· )Idon't think .he wants to pie wo.n't tl'avelt'rom . by play on a team that has no counties. to se.e the team yhance to play in a cbampi­Ul1less H~ey cap be assured onsbip," Dombrowski said. 
···r::::~:=:=:=:;· . 

Team A: Mike Gillespie Mark Harris Eric Olson 


Team B: Vince Indriolo Brian Nahas Colin Thomas 


11/7-11/8 at 
-. 
.. 
... 

-
page 18 The Observer • SPORTS Friday, November 7, 1997 



Strip 
continued from page 20 
these acts could be given flags, because according to NCAA rules official John Adams, they are excessive, prolonged, choreo­graphed, and obviously not spontaneous. 
Another penalty-warranting situation occurs when a defen­sive player makes a key stop on a fourth-and-one situation and decides to cross his arms back and forth signaling that the play was no good. 
"As long as a player is cele­brating with his team and not standing out or trying to embar­rass his team or the other team, I don't see anything wrong with a mild celebration," states start­ing outside linebacker Kory Minor. What Minor is saying here is that as long as the player doesn't make an extreme case, such as strutting or dancing across the end zone after scoring a touchdown or accomplishing a sack, it is fine. 
In other sports, players can exult after doing the spectacular. In baseball, a player has time to circle the bases to show his emo­tion. In NCAA soceer, the clock stops after a goal to let the play­ers celebrate. Goals scored ·by the "Boys of Winter" usually end with the player's knee gliding along the ice and his arm pump­ing back and forth a Ia Tiger Woods. When a hoops star pops a trey or slams one home, he walks down the court signaling to the crowd and jeering the opposing team as long as the act isn't too excessive. 
All these sports allow some sort of post-score celebration, but for some reason, the NCAA and the NFL have outlawed this kind of unruly behavior. Among the celebrations prohibited are a sack dance, high-fiving the crowd after a touchdown, high­stepping, planting the team's flag in the field before the game, tossing the ball in the air after scoring, and dropping to one knee in the end zone. These acts are all illegal because they either focus attention on the individual and prolong the game or they provoke the other team to re­taliate. 
The dropping to a knee has been called to question as of late because Liberty College said that it will have everyone of its play­ers take a knee after every touchdown. The sehool has stat­ed that if one of its players was given a flag for this,8 
• 
7:30, 10:15 KISS THE GIRLS (R) 1:25, 4:05, 7:20, 1o:oo RED CORNER (R)* 1:00. 4:10, 7:05, 9:45 I KNOW WHAT YOU DID L (R) 
12:55, 3:05. 5:20, 7:35, 9:50 DEVIL'S ADVOCATE (R) DTS 12:45, 3:50 I KNOW WHAT YOU DID L (R) 1:30, 3:40, 5:50. 8:05, 10:30 RED CORNER (R)* 2:00, 4:40, 7:50, 10:30 THE EDGE (R) 1:40,4:30, 7:45, 10:25 GANG RELATED (R) 10:1o IN AND OUT (PG-13) 1:15,3:30, 
5:40, 7:55 ••sNEAK PREVIEW SAT. (11/8) 7:00 OF THE MAN WHO KNEW TOO LITTLE WITH DEVILS ADVOCATE 
Times valid through next Thursday *No passes 
it would sue the NCAA for vio­lating its constitutional right. While these referees focus on 
the excessive celebration that takes place, their main focus should be on what occurs dur­ing the game, namely holding calls and other missed calls. 
Take last year's game versus Southern Cal for example. Denson had rumbled in for a Notre Dame score and was sit­ting there as a USC player came and hit him from behind, caus­ing Denson's helmet to fly off of his head. The referees, not noticing the hit, flagged Denson for removing his helmet on the field. If they would have opened their eyes and looked around, they could have seen No. 23's helmet rolling around in the back of the end zone. When a player removes his helmet, it doesn't just roll around behind him while he's sitting there rest­ing on one knee. ·· The second ex~i"mple took place last weekend versus Navy. Navy ran its familiar option play with Chris McCoy faking the option to the fullback Tim Cannada and then proceeding to roll off ready to toss it wide to the running back. Chris McCoy faked everyone out, including the referees who had no clue what had happened. The play was stopped, and Navy was held 
to three yards instead of the 10­plus the Midshipmen were des­
tined to pick up. For once, a call in our favor. 
Did you ever notice why, when we blitz, our guys hardly ever get to the quarterback? Many of you say it is because our guys are not that good. Watch the replays and you'll see that there were at least two holding penal­ties not called on that play. 
The referees need to focus on calls to make the games run smoothly and fairly where both teams get called for the proper penalties and infraetions. They put seven officials out there for 
a reason, and it is to watch their seetion of the field and make the right calls. The NCAA needs to let the players have some fun; other­wise the players will be bored and not excited when it comes to scoring touchdowns. 
Imagine the reaction of the losing team in this year's national championship game, if 
after scoring a touehdown with three seconds left, the team is excited that it is going to tie the game. But after receiving a 15­yard penalty for celebration, the extra point attempt goes wide right. 

't~ 1 
s
y y • occ e r 
continued from page 20 
Ranked second in the nation, Notre Dame has little to worry about when the NCAA bids are announced but will be trying to gain momentum and iron out a few wrinkles as the team attempts to pick up its third straight conference crown. 
"We struggled a little bit the first time we played both of these teams -Villanova and Connecticut," said head coach Chris Petrucelli. "The place we struggled most was probably in the midfield, and that's our biggest strength. We're going to have to make sure that the strength of our team comes to play." 
Several midfielders, including Anne Makinen, Shannon Boxx and Holly Manthei, rank among the Big East conference scoring leaders. In fact, six of the top 10 conference scoring leaders wear Notre Dame blue and gold. Makinen has 15 goals and nine assists, Boxx has recorded 10 goals and 16 assists, and Manthei leads the nation with 28 assists to go with three
M s 
• 


occer 
continued from page 20 
record in 10 years of Big East championship play. The Pirates won eonference titles in 1986, 1987, 1988 and 1991. Last sea­son, the Pirates were defeated by Connecticut in the first round, 3-0. 
The Pirates are led by sopho­more Peter Scavo, who has a team-high 22 points with 10 goals and two assists. The Irish defense, coming off of an impressive game against Boston College, will have its hands full 
;;-~·-----------.,
ERASMUS BOOKS 
. Usa:l lx:oks l::a.ght am sold . 25 categories of Books 
• 
25,000 Hardback and Paperback lx:oks in stock 

• 
Olt-of-Print Search Service: $2.00 


• J>i:praisals large arrl srall 
Open noon to six Tuesday through Sunday 1027 E. Wayne South Bend, IN 46617 
(219) 232,8444 
The Stock Market Contest for ND Students 
• $2,000 in Prizes 
• Learn how to invest for your future in the stock market 
• 
Make trades using the internet, e-mail, or fax 

• 
Separate division for Freshmen and mores 



win against Providence. Heft netted two goals in each con­test, adding an assist against the Friars. 
Defensively, the Irish have been stellar. Paced by the de­fensive player of the week, goalkeeper LaKeysia Beene, Notre Dame broke a regular season mark for shutouts with 15, including two for Beene and her defenders, Jen Grubb, Kelly Lindsay and Kate Sobrero, last week. The sophomore goalie leads the conference in goals against average (0.18). confer­ence shutouts, and fewest goals allowed. 
Balance is the key to Notre Dame's success. The team leads the Big East conference in nearly every category, including goals scored (100) and assists (135). 
"I feel real good about where we're at right now," said Petrucelli. "I think we're peak­ing at the right time. I'm very confident at this point." 
Sunday's 12 p.m. champi­onship game will be broadcast live on SportsChannel New York and New England and will air via tape delay on SportsChannel Chicago on the afternoon of Nov. 18. 
goals. 
Forwards Jenny Streiffer, Meotis Erikson and Jen Heft pace the balanced Notre Dame scoring attack. Streiffer leads the Irish with 16 goals and 16 assists, Erikson has netted 17 goals and dished out nine 

a lit-' 
tle bit the· first time we played both of these teams -Villa­nova and Connecticut. We're going to have to make sure that the strength of our team comes to play.' 
Chris Petrucelli womeri's soccer head coach 
assists, while Heft ha.s 17 goals and four assists. Heft was also named Big East offrmsive play­er of the week for her nine­point performance in Notre Dame's two shutouts: a 5-0 vic­tory over Michigan and a 7-0 assists. Ilis supporting cast must also step up to the ehal­lenge. 

"The midfield has to continue to play well." Berticelli com­mented. "We are inexperienced in the midfield, and we have a lot of different people in differ­ent roles. Conor LaRose has been doing a phenomenal job for us defensively. His maturing is helping us produce as a mid­field." 
The winner of this quarter­final match moves on to play the winner of the St. John's­Baston College quarterfinal. The semifinals and finals will be held in Storrs, Conn. 
eontaining Scavo. Entering the tournament, defense will be the key for the Irish. 
"Last year the defense came together late in the season for us," junior Phil Murphy said. "We have had two good weeks of practice and played well against Boston College, so hope­fully we can build off of that. When we defend all 11 men on the field, we will be a tough team to score against." 
Offensively, Notre Dame will look to senior co-captain Ryan Turner to provide scoring opportunities. Turner leads the Irish in scoring, posting season totals of 11 goals and five 

'"''!" 
1 Fi IF Y 0 U S E E S P ,Oil T S H A P P E II N G 


CALL 7HE 0BSERVEI 

Full menu is inside Scholastic 

back 

Last Chance to Register! 
Information/Registration Meetings 
Thursday, November 6th, 7:00-7:30pm in Library Auditorium 
Friday, November 7th, 5:00-5:30pm in Library Auditorium 
Bonus: All entrants will receive a free booklet on the basics ofinvesting. 

--------~--------~-----~---·---­
Friday, November 7, 1997 The Observer • TODAY page 19 
MIKE PETERS 

·ust for the sound of it 

www.nd.edu/-sub 

Ben Folds Five 
..

tues., nov. 18@ 8pm in stepan center 
tix on sale now @ lafun info desk !631-8128) $9 nd, smc, hcc students, $12 general admission 
MEN ABOUT CAMPUS 
D.~/, suu I ,;A tJ HAS TAt-: EN 
A PEA Sot/AL­f>AY. YRACioiJStY F! L L 1N ~ 1N FoR 
i-ll t.l\ -roD A l tS GUE"SS AR.Ttsf -r"'Hf ORI{JINAL­KN14HT f\IDER, [)Av1D HA SSELHof. 
MOTHER GOOSE & GRIMM 

DILBERT 
CA.TI)E.f\T: EVIL 1-1.~. DIRECTOR 
0"' 

1----------------1~ '(OU DON'T NEED TO 
"' 0 @• 
<II 

REWARD E.r"'\PLO'<EE.5. 
"' 
"' 
" 
I­I­
"' 
0 
<II 
" 

CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 
31 Slicker 53 Side m a 1980's 

1 Andean shrub 32 L1ke fraudulent war 5 -~-Sanctorum acc1dents 54 Go bad 9 Crayola color 35 M1lk source 55 Chemical suffix 
14 Caspian Sea 36 Cartoonist 56 Modern air feeder Walker munit1on 15 1966 Lennon­
37 Timber or water 60 Movie scorer McCartney tune for mstance · Straus 16 "Hold your 
40 Some train 61 ~ue~.!ouds. with

tongue/" 17 Refugee's 
cargoes 62 Controversial 41 "Undoubtedly" ripener

request 20 "Murder.---" 42 Like the risk to 63 Verbose (1960film) bet on. maybe 64 Change 21 Author Robert 43 "What a--!" machine fill ---Butler (beach 65 Rowlands of 22 Jazz trumpeter comment) "Light of Day" Baker 44 Reno game 23 Skeptics 46 "Chuang Tzu" 
DOWN 

25 City on the Po prmciple 
1 One usually 

28 Fate 47 Prefix with 
seen taking a

29 Nat1onal Gallery sphere 
bow 49 Infamous pen 
2Town near Bangor 3 They're 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
deemed worth taking 
4 The People's 19 Taylor or Hayes,Champ e.g. 5 Quick 24 Counterfeit 6 Chicago suburb 26 Busters 7 Commuter hub 
27 Chamber 8 Completely group, perhaps 9Gist 
30 Knock out. so to speak Guggenheim 32 Brahmins -=:-t'::+=-+''-1 11 Babe Ruth. in 
33 Place to see a
1914 
hanged man, 12 French crown e.g. 1 3 "The 0 ne 1 
34 Dawn-till-dusk Lm '"group 
36 Marshal under 
18 Barely walk Napoleon 
:JU5T TORTURE THE.r"\ 
LE.SS. IT WILL fEEL 11-\£. Sf:l..ME f>..S A 
REWARD. 

YOUR HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 
Aries: This is a day to discover and accept new things. You are eager to work with the tools instead of contemplating their meaning. Recruit from the short list when staffing a project. 
Taurus: Is it you, or is it the rest of the world? Maybe some big change happened while you were asleep. Suddenly, the recent past feels like the good old days. 
Gemini: Things you said yester­day don't seem to fit in your 

on messing with your process '<OU Mt:>..'< SKIP MY 
today. Think about what it means rather than trying to find

STAFF MEETING THIS 
out who is responsible. A disrup­

WEEK, ALICE. 
tion presents the opportunity for a much-needed systems check. 


38 Roarer 51 Pitcher, of a sort 39 
-about _ 52 Kind of crossing
(publicly VISible) 44 Without a cover 56 Part of a trunk 
at night 57 --precaution 45 Gunk 58 Subject of a 48 Expanses grainy picture? 
50 Garnish leaf 59 Nab 
Answers to any three clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420-5656 (75¢ per minute). 
Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS 
Libra: New people, things. and events are favored today. Rediscover an intellectual con­nection with someone you've come to take for granted. Lovers find creative ways to make their life together even better. 
Scorpio: Someone might explode today with inappropriate words or actions. Do not cut yourself off. A situation that you thought was resolved turns out to require immediate attention. 
Sagittarius: Cross the bridge from being a stranger to being a friend. Blind dates. chance meet­ings, and cold calls are favored today. Your openness and unique personality easily impress others. 
Capricorn: Something that seemed like a good idea simply doesn't work. Reconsider the path that leads to your future. This is not a good day to leap without looking. 
Aquarius: Your wild and free approach to life amazes you today. You move through your world inspiring and instigating change. No rules can hold you. No doubts can weigh you down. 
Pisces: Strange ideas are a source of creative solutions, but you may have to refine this one before presenting it. You are easily persuaded and upstaged today. Good intentions make you highly attractive. 
... 
• 
• 

SCOTT ADAMS 
mouth today. Somebody new is about to walk into your life. This is a time to have lively discus­sions about matters of great importance. 
Cancer: Do not assume that everyone on your team shares your opinions. It is too easy to blame personal differences on heredity today. You may lose a friend or two if you speak thoughtlessly. 
Leo: The power you wield is a two-edged sword. Grandstand gestures might injure innocent bystanders. Brains win out over brawn today. 
Virgo: Somebody seems intent 



·• SPORTS \Veekend 
page 20 Friday, November 7, 1997 

e 
Stellar defense looks to shut out Villanova 
By ALLISON KRILLA Sports Writer 
In the post-season, every team begins with a clean slate -all regular season records are cast aside and the competition begins. 
After breezing through the season, making even top-25 teams look unimpressive, the Notre Dame women's soccer team (18-0-1, 11­
0) is set to begin a month-long post-season journey to its ultimate goal -the NCAA championships. 
This weekend, the Irish travel to Yurcak Field on the campus of Rutgers University in Piscataway, N.J., for the Big East conference championship tournament. 
Notre Dame faces fourth-seeded Villanova (8­7-2, 6-4-1) in the semifinals tonight at 6 p.m. The Irish downed the Wildcats 4-0 on Sept. 28, a loss that sparked Villanova's 4-1-1 record over the final six conference games en route to a spot in the tournament. 
In the other semifinal, the Huskies of Connecticut take on the Seton Hall Pirates at 8 
p.m. UConn, favored to face Notre Dame in Sunday's championship, is coming off a 3-2 win over Maryland and possesses sole possession of the fourth position in the NSCAA top-25 poll. 
Along with the Big East conference crown, this weekend's winner receives an automatic bid to the 32-team NCAA Division I women's soccer championship tournament. 
The Observer/Brandon Candura 

see w. SOCCER 1page 18 Notre Dame faces Villanova in the semifinals tonight at 6 p.m. 
Pirates to challenge Irish in quarterfinal match 
By DAN LUZIETTI and fifth-seeded Notre Dame last Sunday. It marked the past." 
TOM STUDEBAKER men's soccer team will travel first time that Notre Dame Notre Dame leads the over­Sports Writers to South Orange, N.J., to face had defeated the Eagles since all series between the teams the fourth-seeded Seton Hall the Irish joined the Big East 3-2. However, the Irish are 1­Regular season records Pirates on Sunday. two years ago. Second half 2 versus the Pirates since have now been put aside as The Irish snapped a four­goals by junior co-captain joining the Big East and have the Big East tournament game losing streak with a 3-1 Matt Johnson, junior Ben lost the last two times they begins this weekend. The victory over Boston College Bocklage, and senior Joe have played at Seton Hall. Gallo powered the Irish to The two teams played just victory. two weeks ago in their rogu­

Notre Dame will be making lar season matchup, with the its second straight Big East Pirates winning by a score of tournament appearance. Last 2-1. Notre Dame jumped out year, the Irish won the tour­to a 1-0 lead when senior nament in just their second David Cutler scored his first season as a member of the eareer goal. Seton Hall league. Notre Dame defeated responded with two goals, Georgetown, Connecticut, one from sophomore Jeff and Rutgers en route to the Rigby and the other from title. freshman Brian Cuddy. 
"We tend to be an end-of­The Irish had a chanee to
• 
the-season kind of team," tie it up late in the game with 
coach Mike Berticelli said. a penalty kick. However, 
"We try to focus on the end of junior goalie Derek Martin 
the season. We have won a was able to save senior Scott 
conference championship as Wells' attempt, giving the 
the last-seeded team as well Pirates the victory. 
as one when we were the Seton Hall will be making 
third seed. To me, it doesn't its 11th appearance in the 
matter where we are as far conference post-season tour­
as the standings are con­nament, and ninth under 
cerned. As long as we focus coach Manny Schellschcidt. 
on the game at hand, we will Seton flail owns a 11-5-1 
hopefully repeat the suecess 
The Observer/Brandon Candura 

that we have had in the
The men's soccer team hopes to repeat as conference champions. see M. SOCCER I page 18 

• JOCK STRIP 
NCAA rules stifle athletic spirit 

N 
uchdown. This sin­e act is one of the eatest moments in a football game. It may come as a re­sult of a Gene Brtalik long run, Sports Writer a deep pass, or a return (as Allen Rossum has done eight times over his career). Whenever a player scores one of these six-point plays, a smile forms on his face and for that moment he feels as if he is tho luckiest person on the field at the moment. What is expected of these athletes when they score? For the fans, it could come in the form of a spike, a flip. or a signature touchdown dance. The NCAA would rather 
the player react like nothing 
has happened and that the 
player has forgotten about 
his accomplishment. The 
NCAA wants the player to 
congratulate his teammates 
for their help and then leave 
the field, not disrupting the 
play. Take for example 
Jarious Jackson's kickoff 
return for a touchdown 
against Pittsburgh. Jackson 
just happened to be in the 
right spot and read the play. 
He took the ball on a high 
hop and ran straight into the 
end zQne. Instead of cele­
brating in the end zone after 
accomplishing an act that a 
player only dreams of doing, 
Jackson had to leave the field 
to enjoy his good fortunes on 
the bench. 
Another example took 

place in the second game of 
the season against the 
Purdue Boilermakers. Autry 
Denson had just scored a 
touchdown to pull the Irish 
within five points of Purdue. 
Denson's excitement caught 
the best of him as he spiked 
the ball in the end zone, and 
less than 10 seconds later, he 
saw the yellow flag fly right 
down in front of him. He 
later found out that he had 
been called for excessive cel­
ebration. Where is the fun? 
Isn't the main reason kids 
play sports to have fun? 
Walk through South Bend ·one afternoon and you will 
see kids celebrating touch­
downs with spikes, dances, 
and high-stepping. These 
kids are just having a good 
time, and the refs should let 
the players have some fun 
too. 
Last year, Bert Berry was 

known to ask the crowd to 
"raise the roof' after a big 
tackle, while Renaldo Wynn 
was known to flex following a 
devastating hit. Today, 
see STRIP I page 18 


(I 
at LSU, l' vs. Bowling Green, 
November 15, 3:30 p.m. 

:1 ~ !... Tonight, 7 p.m. a) 
• Athletes in Action come to the JACC 
\\ 
vs. Villanova at Rutgers 

Men's Swimming at Rice, 
Tonight, 6:30 p.m. 

Tonight, 6 p.m. see page 16
.~ .... 
at Seton Hall, 

Women's Swimming at Pitt,
• 
• Volleyball doses season at home
~
~ November 9, I p.m. 

Tonight, 6 p.m. 
see page 15

Swimming at Hope,
vs. West Virginia, 

•
~ Tonight, 7 p.m. November 8, 1 p.m. ~ 








