
Monday, October 13, 1997 • Vol. XXXI No. 36 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Rice argues against death penalty 
marked by God for the sole pur­pose that he is not to be killed by others in return. 
"God," Rice said, "did not intend on killing as a punish­ment for murder." Rice stated that the rights of the innocent are absolute; even though the rights of the guilty may be in question, it is not up to us or our government to decide whether or not someone's life should be taken. It is a decision for God to make. 
Hice then discussed the rights of the unborn and those in a vegetative state. "Our law now allows the intentional killing by removal of food and water or the implementation of terminal sedation," he said. He argued that the government, in uphold­ing thr,se laws, no longer pro­tects the right to life of the inno­cent. 
"The question is," he stated, '"Who is God?"' 
Rice pointed out the "corrupt­ness" of our government and concluded that we have climbed unjustly to the point wher!l we decide when human life ends. 
"Through the use of contra­ceptives people have gainr,d dominion over when life begins," Hice said in closing, "and now through government we have dominion over when life ends." 
Hice is a professor at Notre 

Dame  law  school  and  also  
serves  as  a  faculty advisor to  
Notre  Dame's  organization  

Hight to Life. 

Judge puts off Rita retrial for witnesses' ease 
Observer Staff Report 
SOUTH BEND 
A new trial date of Feb. 2 was set on Friday for John Rita's second trial on the charge of leaving the scene of an injury accident. He faces allegations from the Nov. 13, 1993, traffic crash that killed Notre Dame freshman Mara Fox, 18, as she walked along a dark strip of Douglas Road. 
The trial was scheduled to begin on Oct. 20, but defense attorney Charles Asher filed a motion with St. Joseph Superior Court Judge William Albright for a postponement. In his plea Asher noted that one witness who testified at Hita's first trial is in the late stages of pregnancy and may be unable to travel and that finding hotel rooms for out-of­town witnesses may be difficult due to scheduled Notre Dame football games on three consecutive weekends. 
Prosecutor Michael Barnes did not oppose Asher's request for a continu­ance. 
The retrial comes after a jury was unable to r!lach a verdict on the leaving­the-scene charge, resulting in a mistrial in 1994. That jury did acquit Rita, a third-year Notre Dame law student at the time of the accident, on the charge of causing a death while driving under the influence of intoxicants. 
Barnes decided to retry the count, and the trial was set after Rita exhausted his appeal on several related issues. 
The South Bend Tribune contributed to this report. 

Professor questions government 
By CHRIS YANT News Writer 
"I was a supporter of the death penalty and l've changed for very good reasons," said Professor Charles Rice to open his speech on capital punish­ment last night in the Walsh Hall chapel. 
After a performance from Voices of Faith Gospel Choir and an impressive introduction high­lighting his accomplishments, Rice stated that "the only two reasons. in principle, for inten­tionally killing someone are war and criminal punishment." 
However, he questions whether or not these reasons. which are determined by state government, arc truly just. 
Pope John Paul II, under the new Catechism. maintains that in practice tho state should not invoke capital punishment unless it is impossible to pro­teet the surrounding society from the.criminal. 
Hice, who is a consultant to the U.S. Commission on Criminal Hights, supports this view and relates the story of Cain and Abr,l. Cain, after killing his brother Abel, is 



Nursing students celebrate accomplishments 
By SHANA'E TATE 
News Wrirer 
The nursing class of 1999 gathered together on Friday, Oct. 10 to celebrate its accomplish­ments and dedication to the field of nursing with family, frir,ncls. and professors. It was the Sr,cond Annual Nui·sing Dedication Ceremony held by the department of nursing in the Church of Our Lady of Loretto. 
"This ceremony is a symbol that you arc in the nursing program," said Jennil'r,r Groszk. senior and member of the hospitality commit­tee. "The junior nursing elass accepted their call into nursing and now W!l are celebrating." 
This is only the second nursing dedication put on by the nursing department. In the past. the department had held a capping ceremony for thr, nr,w nursing class; however, the nurses no longer wear the caps due to changes in tradi­tional professional nursing outfits, so the cere­mony was discontinued. 
This service "makes the students call to nurs­ing public," said Mary Jo Regan-Kubinski, nurs­
ing chairman. "Now they are really beginning their nursing career." 
Following the call to service was a celebration of the word. Many different students and faculty participated in the prayer sr,rvice. 
"Everything went really well and everyone did their part in helping," said Henee Chulski, dedi­cation co-chair and member of the 1999 nurs­ing dass. 
The studr,nts had to maintain a high gradr, point averagn and takn cr,rtain elasscs to be able to be part of this departmr,nt. "Thr, stu­dents wern challenged to use not only knowl­edge and skill but also compassion," said Annnttc Peacock-Johnson, nursing professor. 
The celebration of dedication included the call to ministry. dedication, Nightingalr, pledge, and the blessing. Each student was called by name to be blessed. A faculty member laid hands on thr, student and prayed that she may undr,r­stand God's call in her life. The student then received a lighted lamp, which is a reminder of 
see NURSE I page 4 




Monday, October 13, 1997
page 2 The Observer· INSIDE 
• iNSIDE COLUMN 
October 


Madness 
My apartment is a mess. Clothes are strewn 
all over the living room. Discarded beer bot­
tles, pizza boxes and bags of garbage make a 
four foot pile where my kitchen garbage can 
used to be. Maybe I will 
find it again someday. 
What makes me sit, 
seemingly oblivious to the 
filth, on the only clear 
area in the entire place 
(the couch) and stare at 
the glowing tube while I 
shout insults through my 
open front door at an Matt Loughranobnoxious next-door 

Associate News Editor 
neighbor? 
I'll give you two 
words: October baseball. 
Maybe it is the fact that the Baltimore 
Orioles, the team that I have followed since 
before I could even remember what a base­
ball was. have survived the entire regular 
season in first-place in the American League 
East. 
Maybe that they took down the supposedly 
mighty Seattle Mariners in four games. 
Maybe that they are now up against the 
ropes against the upstart Cleveland Indians, 
who took three out of five games from the 
New York Yankees last week and look to 
make short work of my favorite team. 
Maybe, but I doubt it. 
This year's post season play is a prime 
example of why Major League Baseball need­
ed a playoff system. Three years ago, when 
the system was first announced, many base­
ball fans screamed out that it was an unnec­
essary extension of the year (present compa­
ny included). 
But the 1997 division series showed an 
underdog team dethroning the defending 
World Series champions in five games (two of 
which were won by a 21-year-old rookie). In 
the National League, an expansion team 
(Florida Marlins) blew by the surging San 
Francisco Giants. The defending NL champi­
on Atlanta Braves, led by Greg Maddux, 
arguably one of the best active pitchers, shut 
down the fearsome lineup of Bell. Bagwell 
and Biggio. 
This playoff series has seen two pitchers in 
two days throw 15 strikeouts in a game (Mike 
Mussina for the Orioles in the AL and Livan 
Hernandez for the Marlins in the NL). 
The Baltimore-Cleveland game on Saturday 
went 12 innings and ended with a score of 2­
1 on an error. The next day, the same two 
teams combined for more than 24 hits in a 
full nine innings. (Meanwhile the Orioles hit 
three home-runs in an inning, a League 
Championship record.) 
So, the way it stands today, the Braves are 
chasing the Marlins three games to two. My 
beloved Orioles, on the other hand. are down 
to the Indians by a count of three games to 
one. 
The division series and now the champi­
onship series have produced some of the best 
baseball I have seen in years. 
If Major League Baseball was looking for a 
remedy to the problem of faltering atten­
dance, these games may be just that. 
So, when you get a free moment, flip on 
your TV to Fox, NBC or ESPN. But be careful, 
even if your hometown team has been elimi­
nated (To Be Head: New York Yankees, you 
heard me, Ferg.) You might just get caught 
up in the fever that is the playoffs and forget 
about everything else for a while. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
•  TODAY'S STAFf  
News  Graphics  
Sean Smith  Melissa Weber  
Laura Petelle  Production  
Sports  Kathleen Lopez  
Kathleen Lopez  Laura Petelle  
Viewpoint  Lab Tech  
Brandon Williams  "Photo" Joe Stark  
Accent  
Nare Wills  

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000} is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a inember of rhe Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 

• WORLD AT A GLANCE 
Cassini protestors flee Canaveral, fearing deadly accident 
CAPE CANAVEHAL, Fla. 
predawn hours of Monday. Nearly all the protesters 
C}\SSINI 
The Cassini spacecraft will use 
"I invited everyone I love 
"gravity assist" flybys, twice past 
to the launch," said Hichard to be around if the rocket left town: They didn't want 
Venus and once past Earth and 
Jupiter, to propel it to Saturn. A look 
Spehalski, program manag­
MISS I0 N T0 SAT URN at the route of the spacecra~
carrying NASA's Cassini 
er for the Jet Propulsion spacecraft blew up and 72 
Laboratory. pounds of highly radioae­
Venus flyby: Saturn arrival: a. 
June 1999 r The Cassini July 2004 · 
Among the more than 30 
spacecraft will

tive, highly careinogenic 
Spehalski family mnmbers plutonium rained clown. 
. "'" · . travel 2 billion miles
6·EJ venus flyby: to reach Saturn gathered at Cape Canaveral:
l · 
~( April1998 his two granddaughters, tists who devoted years to 
The engineers and scien­
0 ·. ~ Maneuver: ages 6 months and 4 years.
. .
4 -1 • December 1998 " .. ­
the project, on the other 
With just hours remaining hand, brought their families 
before the scheduled launch
--~Launch: Oct.13, 1997 . . 
to witness what they consid­
of Cassini on an 1 1-year, ered to be a historical, and 
$3.4 billion mission to
1~~~~~s~'r~~g · ·· ·~ ··· l(~~~~~b~~~~~~o
safe, event: launeh of tho 
explore Saturn. its rings and first spacceraft designed to 
moons. the grassy liPid nor­() r bi t t he r i n gcd pIa n c t Source: Jet Propulsion Laboratory AP/JusllnGilbert mally used by anti-Cassini 
Saturn. protnstnrs was empty Sunday. The moment of truth -liftoff of the mammoth '.ritan "Tlwre's not a risk to tlw publie," a spokesman for 4-B rocket with Cassini -was scheduled for tlw NASA insisted. 
Michener removes his life-support 'Summer of Love' relived, '90s style 
AUSTIN, Texas SAN FHi\NCISCO 
Ninety-year-old James i\. Michener 
Peaen and love. Marijuana. Tie-dye '!'-shirts. Painful has taken himself oiT life-sustaining memoric~s of tho Vietnam War. It was 1967 again Sunday kidney dialysis. llis condition has not -albeit with a 1990s flair -as one-time flower ehil­changed since his decision. "Basically, dren and thos£~ who weron 't even born then cdobrated he's stable and resting at home," a the Summer of Love. "It's a massiv£~ flashback," said spokeswoman said Sunday, refnrring Peter Bantowsky, one of an estimated 35,000 pnople questions to long-time Michener friend who gathered in a Golden Gate Park meadow to re-live and associate John Kings. "Mr. the event that lwlped usher in tho hippie generation. It Michener is undergoing evaluations. was a eoneert-like atmosphere with many basking on He is perfectly well and eomf'ortable," Kings said in a blankots in the warm sun as they listened to music from brief statement. "lie has spent his life respecting the .Jefferson Starship and John Handy. Hay Manzarek of press and what it has to do," Kings added. "lie asks now Tho Doors, '60s icon Wavy Gravy and United Farm that the press respect his privacy." Kings would not take Workers co-founder Dolores II ucrta were among the any questions. An unnamnd source told the (Nnw York) many speakers. The event was hnld in October beeausc Daily News: "He's decided he doesn't want to go on liv­it traditionally is tho nicost time of year in San Francisco. ing like this." The writer has more than 40 titles to his A pateh of pumpkins for sale was a quick reminder that name. lie released his latest book, "A Century of it was autumn, not summer. Tho original Summer of Sonnets," earlier this year. Michener's litnrary success Lovn evolved from LSD guru Timothy Leary's Golden began with "Tales of the South Pacilic." Thn book won Gatn Park "Bn-ln," in which he encouraged thousands to the 1948 Pulitzer Prize and was tlw basis for "South turn on. tunc in and drop out. McDonald organized the Pacific," a long-running Broadway musical and latnr a most somber part of the anniversary-a small replica of motion picture. For decaclns, Michener, a formnr tho Vietnam War Memorial in Washington, D.C. The teacher, wandered the globn from Japan and Korea to atmosphere, thick with smnlls of' marijuana smoke and Hungary, Hawaii, Afghanistan, Spain, South Al'riea, sage and the sounds of bongo drummers, was pleasant. Colorado, Israel, Chnsapcakn Bay, Poland, Tc~xas, Alaska MeDonald said he was happy with thn large turnout but and the Caribbean. a bit saddened that the '60s spirit may be waning a bit. 
ISU student dies in plane crash Divers explore Blackbeard's ship 
TEHHE IIAUTE, Indiana BEAUFOBT. N.C. 
An Indiana Statn University studnnt dind Sunday and Arduwologists studying wreckage found about two another was injured after the single-engine plane they miles offshore say signs l'.ontinue to suggest thny may were flying crashed. Aerospal:e tnehiwlogy studnnts have found Quenn Anne's Hevenge, the llagship of the Hyan Somerville and Hyan Stoeksdale took oil in a small pirate Blackboard. "Wn don't expoet to l'ind trc~asure. Cessna 172-N plane from Clarksvillr~ in southcm Indiana But wo'vc already found numerous artifacts," said Fay early this morning. Stoeksdale, 19, was !lying the plane Mit.clwll llenderson of the state Ikpartment of' Cultural when he started having problems with tlw wind, investi­Hesourecs. "Wn're hoping to be abln to definitively say gators told WTWO-TV. Somerville, 19, was a studnnt that this boat belonged to Blackbcard." Underwater pilot. When they tried to land. Stocksdale apparnntly archa£~ologists began a month-long exploration of the tried to pull out of' the wind, but failnd and nose-dived sitn Od. 3. They soon plan to begin raising artifacts from into thn grass next to thn runway at Sky King Airport the sitn. Divers have diseovernd ninn eannons at the near Terre llautn around noon, investigators said. Sky wrc~r.k site about 20 feet bnlow the sea's surfar.e. When King is a commutnr airport often used by ISU students. Blackbnard was captain of thn Que£m Ann£~·s Hnvenge, it "When the wind eaught it. it blnw sideways and dropped earri(~d 40 cannons. Hnsearehers say that if tlw wreck is on its wing and that was it," witness Edith Aetion told not of the flagship, it could bn one of two otlwr similar WISII-TV. Both students worn takcm to Union Hospital in ships in Blackbnard's llnnt. Blackbnard. the nickname of Terre llautc. Somorville was cnlnbrating his 19th birth­Edward Tnarh, eommandml four V£1SSPis and 300 pirates day on Sunday. lin dind from his injurios. Stoeksdalo was in his prime, and his llagship carried a crew of 125. llis listed in critical condition Sunday night. The Fndc~ral reign on thr. snas dimaxml in May 1718 wlwn his crew Aviation Administration was investigating tlw crash. blockad£~d Charlnston, S.C., for morn than a week. 
• SOUTH BEND WEATHER • NATIONAl WEATHER 
The AccuWeather®forecast for noon, Monday, Oct. 13.
5 Day South Bend Forecast 
40s Lines separate high temperature zones for the day.
AccuWe<.~thcr® forecast for daytime conditions mu.J high tcmpcrniUrcs 
H L 
Monday 73 45 Tuesday 50 45 
FRONTS: 
......,........ ...a....a... ...,......,_

Thursday ~ 51 41 
COLD WARM STATIONARY
"'''' 

Cl 1997 AccuWeather, Inc. 
Pressure 
H L


Friday ~ 51 33 

HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T·STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT CLOUDY CLOUDY 
• •v·~ 
f'-• ''' 
V~<t AUOC/It/Sd PrfiSS 

Atlanta 78 62 Dallas 65 50 New Orleans 85 72 Baltimore 77 50 Denver 59 26 New York 71 57
(f u
4,Q,~9Q.Q ~ Boston 65 49 Los Angeles 86 61 Philadelphia 73 50 
Showers T·storms Rain Flumes Snow Ice Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy 
Chicago 67 64 Miami 84 75 Phoenix 102 81 
Via Assoctated Press GraphicsNet 
Columbus 79 60 Minneapolis 50 49 St. Louis 65 62 
Monday, October 13, 1997 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Deane honored with prize for his acclaimed novel 
By ANTHONY PERRI News Writer 
Professor Shamus Deane, chair of the Keough Institute of Irish Studies, was awarded two Irish Times fiction prizes for his critically acclaimed first novel, "Heading in the Dark." A long term project, the novel started in 1988 and culminated after four years of intense work from 1992 through 1996. 
"Heading in the Dark" is the story of a boy growing up in the city of Derry in the north of Ireland in the 1940s and 50s. Partially autobiographical and partially a compilation of other families, it tells the tale of the long-standing and violent con­flict between the minority Catholic and nationalist commu­nity, to which the boy belongs, and the majority Protestant and unionist community, which wields the reins of power in this society. Growing up, he uncov­ers a terrible family secret root­ed in that conflict and which has become a haunting, threatening presence in the family's life. 
Though he somewhat expect­ed a warm reception for this talc in his homeland of Ireland, Deane was surprised by the international acclaim it has gained. Already a sensation i'n the U.S. and U.K., it has been translated into French and German and has achieved a sim­ilar popularity. 
"The g.eneral situation of a family with a secret sp,eaks to a wide range of people," Deane said. Some have even gone so far as to say that the themes expressed are so powerful as to make the book painful to read. 
Deane himself experienced this torment during the long, arduous process of writing "Heading in the Dark." The pressures of work and the fact that deep down he "didn't want to confront the novel" himself, led him to a long procrastination in the late 80s. IIis long struggle came to fruition in 1996 leaving him with a "satisfaction of hav­ing finally articulated his story." 

Complementing the Irish Times Prize, "Reading in the Dark" received the Guardian Prize for Fiction and was the close second choice for last year's Booker Prize, the British equivalent of the Pulitzer. 
Deane will receive the Irish Times prizes from former presi­dent of Ireland Patrick Hillery in a special ceremony on Nov. 20 at the Royal Dublin Society. Dean and the other honored authors in the competition will read from their work at the Irish Film Center in Dublin on Nov. 19. 
Since 1993 Deane has been sharing his genius with the Notre Dame community. He joined the University to head the creation of an Irish Studies Program that would become the premier program in North America. Having the "oldest, most complex, and only colonial and post-colonial European lit­erature, along with all the tradi­tion that ties Notre Dame to Ireland" makes the Irish Studies Program all the more important. 
This labor of love too is reach­ing a cross roads. Under his careful tutelage the Irish Studies program will stabilize and "take a clear form by 1998, surpass­ing any other faculty in the New World." 


ND alumnus receives prestigious education award 
By MALIN STEARNS part of the Alumni Association's Schools. "If you are a student, News Writer three-day "Excellence in having [Wilson! means, quite Teaching" conference. simply, having the best year of To celebrate his 20-year Wilson has taught second your school life." 
tl~aching career. a Notre Dame grade in the University of The "Excellem:e in Teaching" 
graduate has returned ti> be Chicago Laboratory Schools for conference was put on by the 
honored by his alma mater. his entire career. Alumni Association's Michael Wilson, class of '7:~. "Wilson has powerfully served Continuing Education office. All received the Outstanding his students, his colleagwls and middle school and junior and Educator's Award on Friday future teachers," said Karen senior high school teachers, from the Notre Dame Alumni Sullivan, chair of the computer principals. and counselors are Association. The award was department at the Laboratory welcome to participate. 
"Participants in the program return to their schools recom­mitted to their vocations and more effective with students," said Kathleen Sullivan. director of Alumni Continuing Education. 
"Participants from the pro­gram will become powerful ambassadors for Notre Dame at the Catholic, private. and public school levels," she said. 
Participants are sponsored by Notre DamH alumni clubs and individual alumni. More than 2,500 alumni at the middle school and junior and senior high school levels have received invitations to thH conferHnce. Five current Notre Dame stu­
The Observer/Monica Garza
dents were also among this 

Michael Wilson received the Outstanding Educator's Award on Friday
year's participants. 

from the Notre Dame Alumni Association. 
Full menu is inside Scholastic 
back cover.

Founders 

I I 
Monday, 
I 

October 13, 1997 1 4:30-6:00 pm Hesburgh 
Library Lounge 


PRESENTERS 
Joan Aldous 
The William R. Kenan, Jr. Chair, Dept. of Sociology 
Regina Coli 
Professional Specialist, Dept. of Theology 
Sonia Gernes 
Professor, Dept. of English 
Kathleen Weigert 
Associate Director, Center for Social Concerns 
MoDERATOR: 
Kathleen Biddick 
Director, Gender Studies Program 
You could earn: 
$2ooo after your first plasma donation! 
$150o if you donate alone (first visit) +$ 500 if you show college I. D. (first visit) 
$20oo TOTAL! +$1 Qoo per person if you recruit someone and they donate twice 
HELP US SAVE LIVES 
Must be 18 years old; proof of current address with photo I.D. 
Come to:  Hours:  
AMERICAN BIOMEDICAL  Tu-F: 9:00-6:00  
515 Lincolnway West  Sat:  8:00-5:00  
South Bend, IN 46601-1117  234-6010  

----~ 
---~-------------------~--~~--­
page 4 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS Monday, October 13, 1997 
Students rally against rape 
By COLLEEN GAUGHEN 
News Writer 
"Stop rape! Organize! We will not be victimized!" 
This chant was one of many echoing throughout the Notre Dame community during the "Take Back The Night" rally last night. 
Campus Alliance for Rape Elimination (CARE) sponsored a rally Sunday evening to raise awareness of rape and sexual assault. 

Beginning at Fieldhouse Ma:ll with candles and signs, the rally processed through South Quad, over Highway 31, and concluded at The Clubhouse at Saint Mary's with the music of the Skalcoholiks. 
Students were also given the opportunity to share experi­ences and discuss the issue of sexual assault in the Notre Dame community. 
"It [rape] happens," CARE leader and Sex Offense Services volunteer Cara Stirts said. "So many people think it doesn't happen here, or can't happen here, but it does. more often than anyone real­izes." 

Nurse 
continued from page 1 
received a lighted lamp, which is a reminder of the light of Christ she received at baptism. Finally, the student was called "to let her light shine" by sharing God's light in nursing and in everyday life. 
To end the dedication, everyone stood and held their hands high to bless and pray for these nursing students in the years to come. 
"It [the ceremony] was beau­tiful and so. meaningful. Every time we do this it is like start­ing all over again. I love see­ing th~ students dedicating themselves to God," said Andrea Kopp, nursing profes­sor. 
"The ceremony went very well," said Kubinski. " [This ceremony was] very serious. We will see a different 

Two rapes were reported at Notre Dame last year. That doesn't include rapes or sexu­

can't happen here, but it does, more often than anyone realizes.' 
Cara Stirts CARE volunteer 
al assaults not reported or those that happnned ofT-cam­pus. 
Nationally, onn in six womnn will be assaulted during her college years, and one in threo will be assaulted during her lifetime, according to partici­pants in the rally. 
CARE was started by a Saint Mary's student, and over the years students from both cam­puses have joined efforts to raise awareness. 
"We're pretty active," said CARE leaders Rebecca 
response in them [the stu­dents! in the coming week." 
"The ceremony ties in tho technical and spiritual aspect of nursing," added Chulski. 
"It [the ceremony! was very sentimental. It added to tlw profession in general. It is something that I will always remember," said Latisha Merriman, memb1H of the 1999 nursing class. 
"I thought it was inspira­tional. It made me remember why I am part of this program and why I am striving to be a good student," said Marie Kane, membnr of the 1999 nursing class and head of the reception. 
"The ceremony made me feel like I was part of the nursing department. I knew that nursing was what I want­ed to do. but this ceremony made me feel even more sure," said Micaela Vergara, member of the 1999 nursing class. 





Think ofus 
as your scHool bus. 

semester breaks or heading home for your sister's wedding, if going home means catching a plane at Midway or O'Hare, the best way to the airport is United Limo. 
Frequent service, all day from campus gets you there on schedule. And when it's time to hit the books again, we'll pick you up at the airport and bring you back to school. No hassles, no problems. 
For information and schedule consult your travel agent or call 
800-833-5555 

www.busville.com 
II~ITI=n II~A()
Vi ~ii ii iii.~ i..iii i i'V" 

Your Airport Connection, O'Hare & Midway, All Day... Every Day 
United Limo to the Chicago Airports 
Leave Notre Dame Arrive Midway Arrive O'Hare Main Gate (via Tri State Coach-Terminals 1, 2, & 3 transfer in Portage) (International terminal 15 minutes later) 3:00a.m. 5:10a.m. 
4:55a.m. 5:00a.m. 7:10a.m. 7:10a.m. 7:00a.m. 
9:10a.m. 8:55a.m. 8:00a.m. 10:10 a.m. 9:55a.m. 9:00a.m. 
11:10 a.m. 10:55 a.m. 
11:00 a.m. 1:10 p.m. 

12:55 p.m. 
12:00 p.m. 

2:10p.m. 1:55 p.m. 1:00 p.m. 3:10p.m. 
2:55p.m.3:00p.m. 5:10p.m. 4:55p.m. 
5:00p.m. 7:10p.m. 

6:55p.m. 
Sanders and Adrian Duran. "We organize mandatory dorm presentations for Notre Dame freshmen, sponsor Sexual Assault Awareness Week in the spring, and many of us volunteer for Snx Offense Services." 
Sexual assault awareness is also a mandatory part of freshman oriontation at Saint Mary's. 
HecSports offers a Women's Safety and Self-Defense pro­gram and thern is the Women's Hf~soui-c-n Center in LaFortune through Student c;overnment. 
Both programs encourage the awareness of assault pn~­vention and safety. 

LAND :V~t~~;fm~rY 


Special to The Observer 
Sister Elaine DeRosiers has retired after serving for 21 years as the. director of Educational Media at Notre Dame. 
A specialist in closed circuit and broadcast television, DnHosiers had managed and supervised tho University's audiovisual centers since 1976. 
She also assisted faculty members in the use of new forms of teaching tec~hnology and serves as a consultant in 
:::.w_:i 
the design of new instruction­al space on campus. She played an integral role in the development of DeBartolo Hall, which is now recognized as one of the most technologi­cally advanced learning cen­ters in higher education. 
Before coming to Notre Dame, DeRosiors served as a communication consultant and television teacher for the Boston Catholic Teaching Center. She previously taught in the archdiocesan school systems in Boston and Louisville, Ky. 

The Notre Dame African Students' Association 
Proudly Presents: 
FLAME 
1996 
A FEATURE FILM FROM ZIMBABWE "Flame" is the story of two friends, Flame and Florence, 
and traces the history of Zimbabwe from 1890 when the white settlers conquered it and named it Rhodesia to its liberation. After her father was arrested by the Rhodesian army, Flame decided to join the Liberation Movement and fight until liberty is conquered again. She did so with determination and courage, despite the abuses and challenges which do not quite end with independence. 
Followed by a Panel Discussion on: 
"WOMEN IN THE MILITARY" 
Featuring: 
1. 
Prof. Carolyn Nordstrom, Institute of International Peace Studies, Moderator 

2. 
Prof. Peter Walshe, Government Department 

3. 
Kimberly Farrow, Junior, Arts & Letters 

4. 
Sean Borman, Ph.D. Candidate, Engineering 


• Wednesday, October 15 • 7:00 pm • 155 DeBartolo • Admission Free • http://www.nd.edu/-ndasa 
Looking for a free and easy way to hang out with your · Professors? 
Starting October You can ask your Professor 


to eat with dining 
Professors will be given free meal tickets through their departments. All you have to do is INVITE them!! 

you lil the hall. 

Monday, October 13, 1997 
Colorado prepares to execute Davis 

·By JUDI'(ij: KOHLER Associared Preci Wricer 
CANON CITY, Colo. 

Colorado br~aks what a prosecutor calls its. 3.0-year "drought" on executions today when it puts to death .a man who raped a woman and then riddled her with bullets, includ­ing nine in her face. 
Gary Lee Davis is scheduleq to die by lethal injection at 8 
p.m. for the July 1986 murder'of Virginia "Ginny'' May. 
May was 33 when DaVis abducted her while her two small 
children watched and drove her with his wife to a secluded 
place. The victim was raped and Davis shot her to death. 
"What are these criminals who have been sentenced to death 
and waiting in prison offering society?" asked May's sister, 
Jerri Cretti. 
Colorado juries have been free to put people to death since 
1978, two years after the U.S. Supreme Court ended a four­
year moratorium on capital punishment. They have been so 
hesitant to do so, however, that Oklahoma residents opposed 
moving the Timothy McVeigh terror case to Colorado. McVeigh 
was sentenced to deathin Denver in August. 
Prosecutor Bob Grant, the lead prosecutor on the case, said 
the wait for justice has been too long. 
"There shouldn't have been a 30-year drought," he said. 
For others, Monday will be a dark day. Davis' death could 
help make 1997 the nation's highest year ever for executions. 
The total so far is 57, the highest since 1957, when 65 people 
were executed. 
Despite the objection of groups including the American Civil 
Liberties Union, the 53-year-old Davis exhausted all his state 
and federal appeals and was denied clemency by Governor Roy 
Romer last month. 
Davis' priests, his attorneys and his aunt say he has under· gone a genuine spiritual transformation and has accepted his fate. 

~f:~·~\ SYRACUSE 
; ' , I STUDY ABROAD 
..,~ 
'? 4f.rdr!6 
COMING TO YOUR CAMPUS! 
Dr. Jim Buschman will be at Room 329 DeBartolo on Tuesday, Oct. 14 from 3:00 to 
5:00. Come discuss your options for study abroad! 
• 
Grants, loans & academic scholarships 

• 
Coursework, internships, travel & more 


ZIMBABWE • ENGLAND • ITALY 
HONG KONG • SPAIN • FRANCE 
Syracuse University • 119 Euclid Avenue • Syracuse, NY 13244-4170 1-800-235-3472 • suabroad@syr.edu • http://sumweb.syr.edu/dipa 


MEN IN BLACK 7f/~ 4/te ~? 7f/Wu~~? 

?-<. flu.. ~· e.s.e. ?-<. ?lett ?tla.d.. e.s.e. 
'?on mtne ~(J« t4e ~~ ~ -.e-tp!41't ~p~ ~ 
~ S~ • ~ Z'.....e. 1~ 46SS6 
(219) 631-639'5 • ktp://~.Hd.edu/-~ 
ANSWER~ 
THECALLV!f>/ 

The Observer • NEWS page 5 
• ARGENTINA 
Airplane crashes, kills 7 4 
By IAN PHILLIPS 
Associated Press Writer 
,~"5~~f~r:!ip~~f,:~~~
before it crashed in Uruguay, killing all 74 people aboard, Uruguay's civil aviation chief said Sunday. 
The Austral airline plane"may have come apart in the air because the remains are spread so far apart," Lt. Col. Walter Garcia said. 
He also said lightning may have damaged the plane, but did not elaborate. 
The Argentine newspaper Clarin on Sunday quoted unidentified investigators as saying they suspected the plane may have come apart in the air. possibly losing a wing, as a result of violent turbulence. 
Storms bearing strong winds, rain, hail and light­ning were raging at the time of the crash Friday night, and the "extremely difficult weather" may have been to blame, officials have said. 
Garcia previously had told Thr, Assoeiatr,d Press that thfl storm "explains only part" of the accident, but he did not elaborate on that statement 
at this conference. 
M D 11 0 1 DC g
C onne OUQ aS ., .····· 
1
L2;; c:'c = : ~ " 
Wing span 107 ft. 10 in.
Length 147ft. 10 in.
Crew 

5 
Passenger capacity 119 
Source:Jane'sAIItheWorld'sAircraft 
>_ 
AP 
Sunday. An Uruguayan judge and 
the Argentine Air Force were 

i~~!i:~~~~r,'i!i:i~~~F:r~~ 
countries' history. 
Most of the victims were Argentine, but there were a 
few Uruguayans and one Swiss. officials said. Three infants were among the dead. 
Argentina's Association of Aeronautical Technicians criticized the Austral airlim~ Sunday, claiming in a· state-merit that it "puts business profit before security." The airline is frequently criticized for flying in bad weather when other companies remain grounded. 
Airline officials could not be reached immediately for comment Sunday. 
The 28-year-old plane had made about 54,000 flights through June, officials said. 
Seventy relatives of the vic­tims were flown on Saturday afternoon from Buenos Aires to the Uruguayan town of Fray Bentos, near the crash site. 
But they abandoned the trip when told that the remains of the victims were unrecognizable. 
He said the flight data rr,corders must be found to help determine the exact cause. 
There was no sign of the recorders by late afternoon Sunday. 
Fragments of shattered metal from the DC-9 and small, unrecognizable human remains lay scattered over farmland where the plane went down, near the town of Nuevo Berlin near the wr,stern border of Uruguay. 
Investigators sifted through earth and pieces of twisted metal in hopes of identifying the cause of the crash. 
The flight was headed to Buenos Aires, Argentina, from the northeastern Argentine city of Posadas. Originally, authori­ties said 75 people were on board. 
Witnesses have said the plane was already in flames when it fell to the ground "like a fire­ball" and exploded on impact, creating a crater 25 feet deep and 30 feet wide. 
Investigators focused most of their efforts on the crater this. We have to bury a ghost. My dad disintegrated in midair," said Jose Luis Fuentes, who lost his 59-year-· old father in the crash. 
"We just have to come to terms with the fact that they are impossible to identify," Argentine Deputy Foreign Minister Andres Cisneros said in an interview with television channel Todo Noticias. 
Uruguayan authorities may organize a memorial ceremony at the site of the crash this week. 
L__ 

:..::...J "I can't come to terms with 


Tuesday, October 14 For time and location of meeting, call: 1-8041 NDLGS Group Advisors: Fr. Tom Gaughan, C.S.C 
Sr.Mary Louise Gude, C. S.C. 
AII Meetings are private and confidentiaI. 
~-----­
-~--~-----~-­
----~~--­




VIEWPOINT 
page 6 

THE OBSERVER 
NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46)'56 (21 'J) 631-7471 SAINT MARY's 0F~ICE: 309 Haggar, l\iorre Dame, IN 465'56 (21 <)) 284-'5.365 
1997-98 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief 
Brad Prenderg<lSt 
Managing Editor Business Manager 
Jamie Heisler Tom Robnd 
Assistant Managing Editw 
Dan Cichalski News Editor... . . .... H~otrher Cocks Advertising Manager ................... : ........ Jed P~rer.~ Viewpoint Editor ...................... Kelly Brooks Ad Design Manager ...................Jennifer Brc.~lmv Sports Editor. .. .......... Mike Day Production Manager... . ..... Mark Dd~oy Accent Editor... ............ joey Crawford Systems Manager ...........Michad Brouilh.-r Saint Marv's Editor ........... : ........... Lori Allen Comroller .......................................... Kyle Carlin Photo Edi~or .......................... Karie Kroener 
The Observer is rhe independent newspaper published by rhe srudcnrs of rht· Univt·rsiry of Notre [)ame du Lac and Sainr Mary's College. h does nor neces~arily reAccr the policie!-1 of rhe administration of cidtn insti[Ution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as pos~ihle. Unsigned editorials repn:st.·nt the opinion of the majority of the Ediror-in-Chief, Managing Editor, As...i... rant Managing Editor, New.\ Ediror. Viewpoinr Editor, Spans Editor, Accenr Editor, Sainr Mary's Editor, Phorn Editor, and Associ~re News Editor. Commenraries, lerrers and Inside Columns present rhe views of rhe authors. and not neces­sarily those ofThe Observer. Viewpoint space is available ro all members of the Notre D;.tme/Sainr Mary·~ communiry and ro all readers. The free expression of varying opinions through lerrcrs is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 
Ediror-in-Chief  6.11-4'542  Business Office  G.ll-'i.?U  
Managing Editor  631-4541  Advertising  G.ll -6900/8840  
News/Photo  6.11-'5.'123  Systems  6.1 I-H8.19  
Sports  631-4543  Office Manager  6.11-7471  
Accenr/Sainr Mary's  631-4540  Fax  631-6927  
Day Ediror!Viewpoim  631-5303  Viewpoint E-Mail  Viewpoint. I @nd.edu  
General Information  631-7471  Ad E-Mail  observer@darwin.cc.nd.edti  



• JEOI MIND TRJCKS 

Deep Thoughts on the Porcelain God 
I never wanted my column to be a bi-weekly "foot­ball" column. I know many people on the football team who do not want this to be a place where some joker can rant and rave about the football team. My opinion on the football team doesn't really help any­thing-even though I know one or two things about coaching football (although there is a segment of the population who does not believe I know squat). However, as the season unfolded, the most appropri­ate topic after each weekend was football. 
~ecause I have been very critical of certain aspects 

Kevin Patrick 
of the team in the past, I feel it is only appropriate to at least praise the team for a portion of this column after its victory. To not write anything about the team's victory would be like a coach of an undefeated team resigning after the team's first loss. No matter how close he was to resigning before that loss, it still looks like the coach was only a front-runner. 
For the Fighting Irish, credit must be given where credit is due. The offensive line was opening holes that interhall running backs could run through. Autry Denson and Clement Stokes were running hard and punishing the opposition. The offensive scheme even deserves credit. We ran the football, controlled the clock, and sprinkled in some passes. Just throw the ball deep to loosen things up and we'll be in great shape for USC. 
This looked like a Notre Dame football team. Although I must ask: What was going on at the end of the first' half with clock management? Call timeout and throw it into the end zone! We were playing Pittsburgh. This so called "playing not to lose" where you don't want to lose momentum going into half­time is a sure fire way to increase your odds of los­ing. 
Was the coaching staff in the bathroom while this was going on? Speaking of bathrooms, why do they seem to have a unique influence in our daily activities -other than the obvious? If your dorm had an SYB or formal this weekend. the bathrooms wern a site for a lot of varied activity. Many dorms had to change their usual configuration and provide bathrooms for the opposite sex. llow many times did someone enter the wrong bathroom (unintnntionally)'! 

If you were the hall staff, bathrooms were the light­ening-rod for mischief. Young lads and lasses sneak­ing drinks into the Senior Bar bathroom. Impromptu public drinking at urinals. Those same youths sprint­ing to the bathroom to leave regurgitated dinners as presents for unsuspecting resident assistants on their final round. 
In a movie I watehed over thn weekend, bathroom activity provided a strange twist. In "Mallrats" tlw boyfriend asks his soon to be ex-girlfriend what she does for so long in the bathroom. She responds that she cries. She thinks of all the gmat things other peo­ple do and cries because her only accomplishment is sex with this guy. (Although if she had sex in a bath­room at N(Jtre Dame, she could be expelled). 
This got mn thinking about bathrooms in movies. There is the great scene in "Weird Science" where the computer-generated girlfriend explains to the nerd's parents that he "tosses ofr' during his extend­ed stays. The only thing funnier is his disbelieving mother crying, "You told us you were combing your hair!" 
Anyway, o1w of the most wnll-known bathroom exposes is in Pulp Fiction where every time John Travolta goes to the restroom, something crazy hap­pens. 
What is the deal with the inllunnce of bathrooms? I saw in tho bookstore where they havo condensed thousands of novels to undllr fivo pagos so you can read thom while in the bathroom. Somo people have entire magazine racks at your disposal-although in West Virginia I bet they are just pieturo books (that is if they even have indoor plumbing). 
Oddly enough when I was watching tho Notro Damn game, one guy came out of tlw bathroom complaining about how hot he was. It was comfortable when he wnnt in and it was eomfortabln to the rnst of us whon he came out. I don't know; you do the math. 
Be careful how you lot your dosire to go to the bathroom aiTeet your judgoment. Somn girl backed her car into me twice the othor night, but I had no time to wait for information and she was gotw by tho time l got back. Why she didn't slay, l'IIIHJVI~r know. 
So what is the point of this column'? 13asically, spend less time in the bathroom, watch "Chasing Amy," and beat the Trojans. 

Kevin Patrick is a third-year JIJIMBA student. lie r~ften has no point. 1/e can be found struggling through three straight mid-terms lwginning today. 
The opinions expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

•  DOOI\IESBUAY  "7tJPf3?7!3!7T CON/?IT10N9IN Nil<& fi4C7lJR/&6, tll/3 CAU­{)POII/ AtL-N!/<&-SPONS<JR£P A7HL£Te5 70 0~Nil<& M/Aff.Nei6PAYONtJCl()fll!R18. \  WHAT? tufl05 71-/AT/1?0,# f? I  GARRY TRUDEAU  • 0UOTE OF THE DAY "I refuse to accept the idea that the 'isness' of man's present nature makes him morally incapable of reaching up for the 'ought­ness' that forever confronts him."  
-Martin Luther King, Jr.  
,,, .  ,, ..........  


VIEWPOINT
Monday, October 13, 1997 page 7 
• DIGGING DEEPER 
ND Must Continue Noble Ideal of Real Education 
There is much discussion and debate today on the purpose of a university. A disturbing trend is the compromising of true education for the sake of competition. Most university adminis­trations feel that in order to prepare their students for "the real world," they must educate at least a great number of them in the ways of the world. The virtue of a liberal education has given way to the need for "practical" education. The pressures 

Aaron Kheriaty 

for encouraging this trade school mentality are not negligible. A school's worth is often judged by its national ranking. These rankings try to be as quantitative as possible, objectively weigh­ing schools against each other by way of concrete and discrete methods. Though a worthwhile objective, the rankings place pressure on schools to churn out students who show immediate "success" in the real world. GRE and MCAT scores. starting salaries and hiring rates, and alumni donation categories prod university administrations to adequately prepare students for immediate entry into the competitive corporate and profession­al world. 
In the midst of this shuffle. the pursuit of true education too often becomes obscured or worse yet, lost entirely. What do I mean by a "true education"? Is a degree in management or marketing somehow less an education than one in philosophy or the classics? Not necessarily, but this statement needs fur­ther qualification. A business education is concerned with the operations of the corporate world, with the workings of the stock market, banking, etc. This is undoubtedly worthwhile and necessary information. for obvious reasons. But it does not address what a true education should ultimately address. It does not get to the heart of things or even attempt to get to the heart of things. It does not and cannot do this because it docs not ask the big questions. It is concerned with the workings of the free market and capitalism. It is not concerned with truth, with what is. 
It is possible, and unfortunately all to common, for one to go through our system of higher education without ever being con­fronted with the questions that are basic to mankind. A busi­ness graduate may shrug his shoulders and say, "So what if I've never confronted these questions? Where will that get me any­way? I'll leave that waste of time to the philosophers. l mean, I need to live my life." My answer to this unfortunate soul is, "Exactly." You need to live. But in order to do this, it is incum­bent that at some point you addrflss these ultimate questions, or at least learn how to ask thflm. "The unexamined life is not worth living" is a truth for all time. Education is a serious enterprise. 
Am I suggesting that everyone migrate to the College of Arts and Letters? Again, thfl answer is no. I realize that this would be absurd. A truly libflral education must include the natural sciences, as well as what I will refer to as the practical sciences of engineering and even business. But none of these studies should be exclusive unto themselves. Notre Dame is right in requiring courses in philosophy, theology, history, and litera­ture. If a student finds that these are not sufficient in providing an investigation into what is, then I will be so bold as to suggest that a student ought to explore these questions by reading some of the great books on his own. It is possible for one to acquire some measure of wisdom, no matter what his particular field of study happens to be, but this takes effort and initiative. 
Many assflrt that the purpose of an education is to develop our skills in critical and analytical thinking, problem solving, a_nd communicating-in short, to learn how to learn. They are nght. of course. The danger comes in seeing these skills as the only purpose of an education, as an end in themselves rather than means to an end. If we want to truly educate. we must remember that the learning process has an end, that we are searching for what is. We must avoid the modernists pitfall which essentially says that education is based on the pursuit of truth. never on the possibility of its being found. 
We as individuals are responsiblfl for our own education. But Notre Dame, as an institution, also needs to actively resist the pressures of secular culture, which encourage the pursuit of power, wealth, and fame. over the pursuit of truth and good­ness. If we are truly a Catholic university, we will always be, in some sense, countercultural. (The disciple is not greater than the master.) Notre Dame has always prided itself on its focus on undergraduate education. A few recent trends, however, indi­cate that ND is sliding away from this noble ideal. The failure of the Ivy League schools -many of which began as Christian institutions-to retain their Christianity, is a warning for Notre Dame. Genuflecting toward Harvard may get us material suc­cess and recognition in U.S. News & World Report. but in the process. we will sacrifice that great Catholic ideal which made Notre Dame what it is in the first place. 
Aaron Kheriaty is a junior philosophy and pre-med major. His column appears every other Monday. He can be reached by e­mail at aaron.d.kheriaty.l@nd.edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
• lETTER TO THE EDITOR 
Stanford Forfeits Scholastic Heritage to Immorality and Cultural Illiteracy 
This past Saturday at the Notre Dame-Stanford game, I witnessed an atrocity which is practically beyond description. No, I am not talking about the performance of the Notre Dame football team; I am referring to the shameful dis­play put on by the Stanford band. The outright bigotry and the vituperative, demeaning treatment the band members gave to the Irish Catholic her­itage associated with Notre Dame bordered on the blas­phemous. This debauchery is certainly destined to replace the performance the band gave back in the dosing seconds of the Big Game of 1984 as the most infamous of all Stanford band moments. 
I have always had a great deal of respect for Stanford University, and I've always admired its apparent commit­ment to intellectual excellence. As I understood it, only the best students (and the children of presidents) were admitted there. Stanford enjoys the 

highest level of prestige far and wide. While I was studying abroad, I found that foreign stu­dents know of two great schools in America: Harvard and Stanford. Naturally, I was expecting something indicative of this level of talent from the Stanford band. Those high expectations only made the shameful performance that much more shocking. 
The band played several different numbers during their performance, and the music was interspersed with the most obscene, offensive and insulting commentary on all things Irish. It began with flippant treatment of The Famine of the 1840s and the blight that destroyed the pota­toes and decimated the Irish. Historians estimate that this event caused the death of one million people in Ireland, and the forced emigration (often resulting in more deaths on the "coffin ships") of another million. Such a tragic event in our history is not to be treated with such levity. 
The performance grew in its bigoted tone. The Irish race was scathingly referred to as a race with practically no culture to speak of. Mercy! I couldn't believe my ears! Ireland without cul­ture? Where, oh where. have these children been trained? This is the outcome of a Stanford educa­tion? 
Perhaps a Stanford education does not cover the pivotal role Catholic Ireland played in the development of Western Civilization. Perhaps the Stanford curriculum ignore the impact the Irish race had in preserving Western culture from the destruction of the barbarian hordes after the fall of Rome. They might do well to consider studying this important aspect of history in their Western Civ courses (assuming they still have some). I suggest they turn to Thomas Cahill, who has written of the Irish impact in his excellent book, How the Irish Saved Civilization: 
"For as the Roman Empire fell, as all through Europe matted, unwashed barbarians descended on the Roman cities. looting artifacts and burn­ing books, the Irish, who were just learning to read and write, took up the great labor of copy­ing all of Western literature -everythin5 they could lay their hands on. These scribes then served as conduits through which the Greco­Homan and Judeo-Christian cultures were trans­mitted to the tribes of Europe, newly settled amid the rubble and ruined vineyards of the civiliza­tion they had overwhelmed. Without this Service of the Scribes, everything that happened subse­quently would have been unthinkable. Without the Mission of the Irish continent in the bays and valleys of their exile, the world that came after them would have been an entirely different one -a world without books. And our own world would never have come to be." 
Still the pathetic narrative continued, wallow­ing deeper and deeper in outrageous ignorance. It finally reached the bottom of inflammatory atrocity with the implication of the Irish. as a race, in the terrorism of the IRA! I have yet to recover from the shock. 
At the end of this incendiary performance, the narrator -half in jest, half in embarrassment­commented that he didn't actually write the script. he just read it. Sounds vaguely similar to what the Nazi pawns said at Nuremberg. 
It is absolutely beyond belief that such an abomination can be inflicted on an American audience in these enlightened '90s. Isn't this the age of sensitivity? The age of diversity? Diversity! I thought that was the trump card of the '90s! And Stanford! Good heavens, is there any other university which congratulates itself so boister­ously on its pursuit of diversity? On its "multicul­tural" achievements? On its commitment to non­discrimination? Why, Stanford even has a "diver­sity day" scheduled for Oct. 18! But don't be fooled by all this chest-thumping and posturing -the facts speak for themselves. When it comes to diversity, the Stanford student body is as hypo­critical as it is ignorant. 
And it was the ignorance of this display which was the most tragic, particularly its denouncing of the Irish race as being practically without cul­ture. Can such blatant ignorance exist on any campus in America? Do they really believe that? Apparently the Stanford students need to be edu­cated on the incredible debt that Western Civilization owes to the Island of Saints and Scholars. 
Again, I believe that Stanford's administrators would do well to offer a course on Irish history and culture to their students. They could even pattern it on the Irish courses offered at Notre Dame. In fact. they would be well served to offer this course in place of some of their other "diver­sity fostering" course such as: 
"Philosophy 172-272. Is Morality Too Demanding?: Exploration of one of the most damning criticisms of moral theories, that they demand too much. Critics have argued that prominent moral theories require moral agents to act in ways that are either impossible or, if possible, undesirable." 
"Anthropology 280. Ethnographic Approaches to Cultural Diversity in Schooling: The cultural process is approached by acquiring techniques of observation, interview, and interpretation of behavior in context, and soliciting and recording the 'native' explorations of students' own behav­ior; developing an internally consistent conceptu­al structure that orients observation and elicita­tion productively; and being sensitized to one's own culture and how it influences perception and interpretation of behavior." 
"Feminist Studies 240/340. Lesbian Communities and Identities: Scholarship and research on the lesbian experience. Issues of homophobia, lesbian intimacy and sexuality, femme and butch roles, lesbian separatism, and the diversity of lesbian communities and identi­ties." 
Well, if this is their standard of what "culture" and "civilization" are all about, perhaps it is no wonder that they hold Catholic Ireland in such low esteem. The Irish have always had this thing about absolute morality. 
Leland and Jane Stanford had such high goals for their university. As Mrs. Stanford said in 1902, "The university was ... designed for the betterment of mankind morally, spiritually, intel­lectually, physically, and materially." I'm afraid that if you consider the performance of their stu­dent population in the most important of these objectives, Stanford is a dismal failure. 
Martin Patrick Hughes, Ph.D. Notre Dame class of 1997 October 9, 1997 

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 

T 
page 8 Monday, October 13, 1997 
A Tedious Tibetan journey 
cept sounds about as fruitful as starring the pope in anSeven Years in Tibet 
action shoot-em up/urban drama. But the answer came Directed by Jean-Jacques Annaud careening into their ever­resourceful brains like a Starring Brad Pitt, David Thewlis, meteorite from the sky: thin out the plotline, place the
Jamyang Wangchuck, and B.D. Wong 


focus on war, love, and sur­vival in nature rather than religion, and downplay the Nazism by, of course, having(out of five shamrocks) 
cinema-stud Brad Pitt play the lead role. Such original, inno­vative ideas demonstrate pre-
By JOE LENISKI cisely why these guys make the big Accent Movie Critic bucks. Pitt plays the handsome, cocky, Aryan 
Before the green-light was given for yellow-head Heinrich Harrer, a German this movie, the Hollywood executives mountain climber (and yes, a Nazi) with charged with producing "Seven Years in a will of iron and a heart of lead. In the Tibet" had to overcome a difficult ques­midst of World War II, he ditches his tion: how do you tell a story in which the wife and his unborn child and travels to 
thor surprising nor intricate; it is a true shot in the Andes Mountains to simulawhero is a Nazi. the Dalai Lama and the India to elimb a mountain and prove his story based loosely on a decade's worth the roof of the world, is awe-inspiringBuddhist heritage are central plot ele­male virility. Here is where the arche­of llarrer's memoirs. What little estab­and breathtaking. Even when this movie ments, the action takes place over seven typal "hero transformation" begins, lished plot there is involving the survival embarks into a tedious and repetitiousyears. and make it entertaining and spanning over 10 years where lleinrich in the llimalayan wilderness and war shot sequence (and there are many ofappealing at the same time? The con-and travel companion Peter (played with with China dissolves around the inti­them). thn viewnr can still sit back and subtle dignity by David Thewlis) mate, innocent relationship between Pitt appreciate the majestic setting. 
become POWs, fugitives from thn and the 14-year-old Dalai Lama, the I hatn straddling the proverbial barb­British militia, wandering beg­only element of the film that the audi­wire fenc:e of criticism, but this movie gars, established citizens in the ence truly cares about. Essentially this is defines a three-shamroek rating. Thexenophobic realm of Tibet, and movie about two kids: one child who is backgrounds. acting, and intimaey
finally loyal confidants of tho 
foreed to act with an adult responsibility betwnen llarrer and the Dalai Lama 
Buddhist spiritual leader the 
beyond his years, and the other an adult make this an excellent film; the slow 
Dalai Lama. During the Tibetan a ehild. Jamyang
who behaves like pace, sometimes dull filmmaking, and war with China, our hero discov­
Wangchuek gives a wonderful perfor­uninteresting plot dcvPlopments make 
ers the meaning of love, honor, mance as the young Dalai Lama, l'itt this movie subpar. This is a good lilm,and loyalty, and still retains that mostly looks good yet turns in a eonvinc­nothing more, nothing less. and at themischievous, boyish grin. By the ing character despite a wavering very least you should see it and decide 
close of the film, Harrer 
(;erman accent, and many of the back­for yourself. But if you want an excdlcnt inevitably becomes the warm. 
ground actors make the most out of Brad Pitt lilm. instead of going out and caring person the audience has their diminutive roles. But probably the seeing "Seven Years in Tibet," lop off a
been expecting, and his hero 
most impressive thing about "Seven few words and just nmt "Seven." And beThe Dalai Lama (Jamyang Wangchuk, left) is fasci­journey comes to a satisfying,
nated with the blond hair of his Austrian visitor, Years" is what we sec on sereen. The looking for the pope's new action
albeit predictable, close. 
Heinrich Harrer (Brad Pitt). eostumes look autlwntic, the cities and drama; I think it is due in theaters
The plot of this movie is nei­temples are realistic, and the baekdrop, around Christmas. 




A More Wanted Wayans 
based, this film is intriguing because it keeps the audi­although it is one of the most subtle action films everMost Wanted 
ence guessing. From one situation to the next, nothing made. ;\ cross between a detective drama and an is certain, and this adds to the overall ambience which action blockbuster, "Most Wanted" does what it sets Directed by David Glenn Hogan r:1akes it good. Wayans plays a Marine who is impris­out to do and there is no limit to the entertainment oned for a wrongful offense: he killed his commanding value. There are some inevitably bad facets to it, Starring Keenan Ivory Wayans, officer in self-defense. After being waylayed by the though. The acting eould be better, with Wayans hav­seemingly righteous conspirator Voight, Wayans is ing some bland dialogue at times and Ilennessy sadly 
Jon Voight, and Jill Hennessy 


forced to carry out his dirty work or go back to death not being given her chance to shine. And someone row. ;\s a result he is needs to let Wayans know forced to carry out an that when you are a fugi­assassination which tive, you never dress entire­(our of five shamrocks) 
goes haywire and ly in black all the time. sends him into an Voight, as always, is the intricate web of most entertaining character By JOSH BECK deceit as he is pur­here, as his portrayal of a Accent Movie Criric sued by all levels of military general gone bad is the federal govern­extremely funny aside from 
All I seem to be able to say after viewing the film ment; hence, making being intimidating and scary "Most Wanted" is: Finally. Finally, Keenan Ivory him the 'Most as arch-villains are. Wayans has made a movie to be proud of. After such Wanted.' What is Overall, what will surprise mediocre attempts as "A Low Down Dirty Shame" and likeablA about this is you about this movie is the "The Glimmer Man," Wayans has produced a film the fact that Wayans fact that it is so entertaining which is both subtle and entertaining at the same time. plays a superb fugi­and well-done. After seeing Smartly directed by David Glenn Hogan with a screen­tive and is above all Keenan Ivory Wayans' other play written by Wayans himself, "Most Wanted" defi­the most charming tries on the big screen, this nitely establishes itself as an action film worthy of character. Jill will be a welcome and viewing. Hennessy plays his much-nPeded relief. 
It seems to lack nothing in its entirety; it has a well­reluctant partner-in­Although it isn't perfect, it is developed plot, fast-paced action, a superb villain (Jon crime, Paul Sorvino exciting and engaging, and Voight), and dashing lead characters, which of course the cool and collected this is what the viewer seems to be the trend these days, i.e. George Clooney CIA direetor, and Eric appreciates most of all in and Nicole Kidman in "The Peacemaker." While this Roberts his seemingly the end. Helped by the movie does not have the star power of most other innocent assistant, memorable performance of action flicks (let's face it: Wayans isn't a star YET), it just to name a few of Voight and the humor of
Keenan Ivory Wayans (left) plays a tough Marine who makes a
does keep the audience riveted with well-developed the recognizables. Wayans, "Most Wanted"
deal to get himself off death row and teams up with Jill 
scenes that portray a gritty action drama. But this With the intelligent takes off and rarely comes
Hennessy in "Most Wanted." 
movie isn't all drama and gore: it was above all sur­direction of Hogan, down, making it at least one 
prisingly funny. Wayans showcases his acting ability this movie has some great scenes. Watch for the hys­of the more desirable movies of the fall season, when 
with well-placed punchlines, and some of the film's sit­terical clip where Wayans is chased through freeway action thrillers are few and far between. 
uations are just so funny you can't help but laugh. traffic by a mob of screaming citizens. As for the cine­Summary: An action film with a well-developed plot, 
Although it doesn't live up to the billing of highly matography, the scenes are well-developed but have which can be hard to find these days. Fast-paced budgeted summer blockbusters, "Most Wanted" pro­little flashiness to them, which works out fine in the action scenes with plenty of guns, fists, and blood. vides a welcome add-on and makes the viewer glad end since the film doesn't really need a lot of pizazz to Starts out quick but evens out, so don't get there late. that the summer may not have ended yet. Unlike the accomplish its goal. Its goal, of course, is to keep you Funny and subtle at the same time, a must-see for the summer megabusters which tend to be all action-on the edge of your seat, which it does throughout, action butT and Wayans fan. 








Smiles and silence a refreshing post-game change 
''!missed seeing those white it has accomplished. voice, as he downplayed how nice it boost of confidence going into this teeth." Notre Dame head coach They wm·en't smiles of anticipation as was to return to his hometown and week's game against Southern Cal, one Bob Davie said after Saturday's seen before the opening game against have his dad on the field after the victo­that could essentially save the season. 
45-21 win over 
Georgia Tech, and they weren't forced ry, told a different story. There appears to be a light, regard­Pittsburgh. "It's nice smiles of optimism after the team's first In fact, even the Irish fans seemed to less of how bright or bleak, emerging at to see the players or second loss. And we sure haven't let the team enjoy the victory, and the end of the tunnel. The Irish seem 
smile again." seen any smiles in the last four weeks. maybe even relax a little bit and take to have found the rhythm for which 
Actually, it seems For the first time this season, the part in the celebration themselves. they had searched five games without likes it's the first time players sighed and smiled, and Davie Granted, it was not the prettiest victory, results. More importantly, the Irish may at all this season that was not forced to explain his team's and if it weren't for Jarious Jackson's have finally shut up accusations of lack 
the Notre Dame foot­performance. He was allowed to just two late-game touchdowns, it might of talent or heart. ball team was seen relax and bask in the victory -a victo­have looked a little more like an offen­Allen Rossum's 93-yard opening kick-with true smiles of Betsy Baker ry that he elaimed was for the players, sive battle than a blowout. Still, the satisfaction for what Associate Sports Editor but the pride that exuded from his Irish gave themselves a much-needed 
see INSIGHT/ page 3 
Football 
Tamin 






Panthers 

Notre Dame snaps four game losing streak 
By JOE CAVATO Assistant Sports Editor 
Saturday marked Bob Davie's return to where his coaching career started as a graduate assistant. 
As it turned out, Saturday was also the n~turn to many things for the Irish. The most important return was one to the correct side of the win-loss column as Notre Dame disposed· of the Pittsburgh Pantlwrs, 45-21. 
Tlw coaches and players were in need of any kind of win, but a comfortable win made it mueh sweeter. 
"It's nice to see the players smile again," Davie said. 
"It's easier to go to practice Monday and get up Sunday when you feel good about yourself," Ron Powlus said. 
Saturday also markPd the rPturn of tlw type of Notre Dame football that everyone is used to see­ing. Tlw Irish ran 52 ti1m~s for 317 yards and had only 20 pass attempts. In tlw lirst fiw ganws, the Blue and (;old averaged just I:~0 yards a gamr on tlw ground. but tlw offensive linn was able to domi­natP tlw smaiiPr !'anthers. 
"Tiwy're com pntitive, but not as physical as us." offensive coordinator Jim Col!Ptto said. "I think that wore on them." 
1997 
Irish offense gets it going 
Jamie Spencer and the ND running attack returned to prominence on Saturday against an overmatched Pitt defense. 
see page 2 


The Observer/John Daily 

Kick returner Allen Rossum opened things up for the Irish with a bang, taking the opening kickoff 93 yards for a touchdown. It was the first this season for the preseason all-American candidate. 
The offensive line simply took care of business as running backs Autry Denson and Clement Stokes ran wild for 128 and 109 yards respectively, while the offense did not have to rely on the arm of Powlus to move tlw tnam. 
"It was great blocking," Denson said. "I don't think it was anything special I did. We just came out and executed. We're still not dicking on all cylinders." 
"Our o!Tonsivo linemen made up their minds that thPy were going to play well," l'owlus said. "I bolinvc in our linemen and backs." 
Something else that n~turned to the Irish was the threat of a big play and Awesome Rossum. 
In dire need of a spark to end the four-game los­ing streak, Rossum took the opening kickoff 93 yards, proving to the Panthers that history does repeat itself. 
After the defense did its part and forced a punt on Pitt's initial possession, Denson broke free for the longest play from scrimmage on the year. With 
8:12 lei"t in the first quarter, Denson took the Powlus hand-off, and 50 yards later, the lead was increased to 13-0. Jim Sanson's extra point closed 
see VICTORY/ page 2 page 2 The Observer • IRISH INSIDER Monday, October 13, 1997 


Offense finally explodes 
The story of the day for tlw 
of'!'e nse, however, was tlw return of the running game. Many have criticiwd tlw Irish this season for their inability to run the ball, especially because thn ground attack has !wen the strong point in tlw past. 
Autry Denson once again Inc! the Irish with anotlwr 1 00-plus yard pPrformance by compiling 128 yards on I 1) earrips. S1~nior tailback Clnnwnl Stokes saw significant action for the first time on Saturday and did not disappoint anyone with I 01) yards on 15 carries. Davin awarded Stokes' work ethic throughout tlw snason by giv­ing him a chance to show what hn could do, resulting in the first time this season that two Irish runners have rushed for over I 00 yards. 
"lip deserves to play," Davin comnwntnd. "IFn~shman tail­back! Tony Driver has gotten an awful lol of publicity and has dorw well. Clement hasn't stopped working. liP has given I00 IWtTent in prartice and on special teams. lin des1~rved some playing tinw." 
Stokes was obviously happy about the chance to play, hut was 1wnn happinr about tlw outconw of tlw ganw. 
"''m glad I got tlw opportuni­ty to play," Stokes wrnnwnted. "I figured if I hpt working hard. it would pay off nvnntu­ally. So it wasn't a matter of Drher playing early; it was just a rnattPr of us winning games. And today was a good opportunity for m1~ to play, and I'm just glad it went positive." 
Anotlwr rww face on ofTnnsn was quarlnrback .Jarious .Jackson, who camn in to lead the team's short-yardago "T­tnam" offense. Tlw ofTens1~ 's inability to eompleto necnssary short yardagn plays has been one of tlw main arnas of con­cnrn, and .Jackson was able to 
By BETSY BAKER 
Associate Sports Editor 
Maybe it was because head coach Bob Davie and quarter­back Ron Powlus were return­ing to their home state. Maybe it was Allen Rossum's 93-yard opening kickoff return for a quick 7-0 lead. Maybe it was because tailback Clement Stokes finally got the opportu­nity to make a contribution. Maybe it was the appearance of Jarious Jackson and the "T­team" offense. 
Whatever it was, something went right for the Notre Dame offense on Saturday, and noth­ing proves this better than the 
........,__

45-21 score. 
The offense finally shed the adjective "futile" in its win over Pittsburgh and began to. show signs of life. 
Despite going up against an undersiznd Panther del'ens1~. the Irish were able to control the ball at the line of scrim­mage and avoid what has also become an overused phrase to describe the Irish offense: "shooting themselves in the foot." 
With the exception of a failnd fourth-and-one attempt at tlw goal line and a second-quartnr interception by Powlus, tlw offense was effectivn in its movement of the ball, and managed to do so by using a vari of we 
~-.,;....-____ 


The Observer/John Daily Junior tailback Clement Stokes gave the Irish a much-needed lift on Saturday, rushing for 109 yards on just 15 carries. 
The Observer/John Daily 

Backup quarterback Jarious Jackson saw his first action of the season and responded with a pair of fourth-quarter touchdowns. 
comn in and provide somo of two nPw offensive threats, unprndictability, and more tlw Irish took full advantage of im portantI y, poi n t s on tlu~ its alrnady-proven 1:onsistPnt short-yard plays . .Jackson's 1wrformnrs. l'owlus complntnd thrnn-yard touchdown run in I:~ of 20 passns for I60 yards. thn fourth quartPr addPd somn and fullbark .lamin SpPncer. insur·ancn to tlw victory, and who has lwnn J'ighl.ing injury his 4:1-yard rl'turn of a throughout thP SPason, ron­Panther onsidn-kirk with 18 tributed a 2:~-yard touchdown s nco n d s In l'l. i n tlw gam n run. turrwd tlw ganw into a full­It might lw a littlP Parly to fledg<~d rout. say that the Irish offensive 
Like Stokes, .larkson was problems have bePn solved gratdul to perform a role in after going up against a the victory, espncially with tlw defense that, on Saturday, kick n~turn. looked as though it would have "I visualiznd thP return on had trouble ddonding a good tlw kic~o!T befon~ it ~wer .~~~tp­high school team. llowever, pened, .Jackson sard. I he tlw offense has f'inally been ball took a perfect bounce, and abiP to get a glimpse of its all I saw was open spaen." potontial, and what ran hap­
In addition to the emergence pen when it devnlops. 
Victory 
continued from page 1 
the scoring for the quarter and the half. 
Pitt's best scoring chance came after Panther cornerback Hank Poteat inter­cepted Powlus and returned it to the Irish nine. The Irish defense would not give in with Melvin Dansby stonewalling Chris Schneider for a loss on second and goal. 
After a Pete Gonzalez incompletion in the back of the end zone with Benny Guilbeaux on the coverage of John Jones, the Panthers missed a 32-yard field goal, erasing Powlus' interception. 
"Our defense made some big plays, especially after the interception," Davie said. 
Having yet to score in the third quar­ter this year, the Blue and Gold has worked on making the proper adjust­ments at halftime. On Saturday, they broke the third quarter jinx with a 22­yard Jim Sanson field goal after the defense forced Pitt to punt from its own 10. 
"We knew we needed to play well in the third quarter," Powlus said. "We had an opportunity to get the ball down field, and we made some things hap­pen." 
Kory Minor helped set up the Irish offense on their first possession, when on third-and-four, he drove the Panther tackle back into his quarterback before disposing of him and wrapping up Gonzalez for an 11-yard loss to !'oren a punt. 
The Panthers showed that they still had some fight in them, getting right back in the game with a six-play, 80­yard drive. The march was aided by a flea-flicker with Gonzalez hitting Terry Murphy with a 34-yard completion to move the ball to the Irish 18-yard line. A Dwayne Schulters eight-yard run ran the score to 1 7-7. 
The offensive responded and refused to let the momentum swing Pitt's way with Powlus engineering a nine-play, 65-yard drive, ending in .Jaime Spencer's 22-yard romp to the end zone to push the score to 24-7. 
Again, the resilient Panthers answered with a nine yard Kevin Barlow run completing a 59-yard drive. llowever, the Irish said "whatever you can do, we can do better," with Autry Denson scoring on a two-yard run to give the Irish a 31-14 lead with 12:56 left in the contest. 
"The way we reacted to them was real 
encouraging," Denson said. "I think that's just an example of what our ofTnnse ean be like." 
Whennvnr things started to go the Panthers' way, the Irish responded, pleasing tho coaching staff. 
"The encouraging thing was that every limn Pitt scored, wn wore able to answer it," Davie said. 
"We didn't let th(~ bad things hurt us. We rnadn up our minds to control what we can control." 
• REPORT CARD 
Quarterbacks: B+ 

The success of the rmming game precluded any need for an outstanding passing effort. The interception was a poor decision by Powlus, but a handful of significant third-down completions compensated for the mistake. .Jackson played his role effectively. 
Running Backs: A 

Denson and Stokes rekindled memories of the old Irish rushing attack as they punished the Panther defense and combined for 137 yards. Spencer was effective. amassing 40 additional yards on six carries, including a 23-yard score. 
Receivers: A~ 

The receiving corps also got the job done when they were called on to do so. Despite the lack of action through the air, Brown and Johnson are finally making more of each individual catch by running longer routes and advancing the ball after the catch. 
Offensive Line: B+ 

Pitt was small, but the men in the tronehes took care of business and allowed the backfield to run wild as it should against that kind of opponent-a definite improvement. 
Defensive Line: B-

Schulters victimized the down lineman at times, but he was held under 100 yards, and the Panthers were only able to manage 133 yards rushing for the day. 
linebackers: B-Sacks from Minor and Bryant help the grade, but 
Tlw win was the first step for the Irish in turning things around as they took care of business against a lesser Pittsburgh squad. 
"We made some strides, but we're by no means where we need to be," Colletto said. 
Things will be nasier for tho Irish this week in practiee where they will build on a win in hopes of starting to return Notrn Dame football to where it should be. 

Pittsburgh had way too easy of a time going around the ends, especially on their two touchdown runs. 
Defensive Backs: C 
Another unit that was in need of improvement came through in satisfactory way. A number of solid coverage jobs held Gonzalez's passing stats to a minimum, especially in the iirst half. A few deep balls down the stretch did not reflect extremely well on the secondary as a whole. 
Special Teams: B+ 
Rossum to the rescue. His kick oft' return to open the game may have been the spark that the Irish have been so desper­ately searching for. Sanson was effective, and Jackson embarrassed Pitt's onside kicking crew. 
Coaching: C+ 
The gold helmets were ready to play from the opening whistle and took advantage of their early momentum. Or did they? Any lead. let alone a 17-0 bulge in the first half, is a comforting situation for Davie and his staff, but they could not put the dagger in tho Pittsburgh's collective heart when the ball was inside the five yard line in the second quarter. 
Overall: 3.04 
The Irish played their best 60 consecutive minutes of foot­ball on Satul'day. The oll'ense faltered momentarily in the middle of the game, but opened and closed the contest with authority. The defense could have played better, but the offense finally gave them the points they deserve, so it did not matter. It was a much needed confidence booster as rival USC heads for South Bend this week. 
-Brian Reinthaler 

-----~--~-------~---------------­
Monday, October 13, 1997 The Observer· IRISH INSIDER page 3 


Irish defense bends but r·efuses to break 
tory in its back pocket. errant pass from Panther quarterback "I thought we played well on defense, Pete Gonzalez. 
Much-maligned 
especially in the first half," said head Gonzalez then handed off to tailback coach Bob Davie. Chris Schneider on second down, and Late in the first half, the defense gave the Irish defense was once again ready. 

defense finally 
Irish fans a sense that this day was Senior defensive end Melvin Dansby finally going to be different than the four stepped up like a captain should. stuff­previous Saturdays. ing Scheider for a one-yard loss. 
After Panther defensive back Hank "Melvin really came through for us Poteat intercepted a B.on Powlus pass, there," said linebacker Kory Minor. By MIKE DAY 

comes up big 
the Pittsburgh offense was given a gold­"That was an important moment in the 
en opportunity to score with a first-and­game for us. We had to have a big play, goal at the Notre Dame nine-yard line. and Melvin provided it for us." It may have taken over a month, but While the Irish did hold a 14-0 lead, On third down, Gonzalez's pass sailed better late than never. On Saturday, the all of the scoring came within the first beyond the reach of the intended receiv­"bend but don't break" defensive philos­six minutes of the game, and with the er, and the Panthers were forced to set­ophy finally prevailed. offense briefly falling back into its sea­tle for a field goal. 
Although the Pittsburgh offense looked son-long hibernation, it appeared they After Chris Ferencik's 32-yard field about as lifeless as the stadium they were in for a dog fight. goal attempt sailed wide, the Panthers' play in. the Irish displayed a knack for However, with Pittsburgh threatening buble seemed to deflate, while the Irish stepping up and making the big play at for the first timfl in the game, Notre gained confidence. the right time. And when it was all said Dame responded with its biggest defen­"I think stopping them really helped and clone. Notre Dame walked away sive series of the season. On lirst down, our confidence," said cornerback Allen with its head held high and a 45-21 vic-the Irish dcfensivn front forced an B.ossum. "We did give up some yards in 
Sports Editor 


TEAM RECORD POINTS PREVIOUS 

1. Penn St (51) 5-0 1724 2 
2. Nebraska ( 14) 5-0 1668 3 
3. Florida St (3) 5-0 1603 4 
4. No. Carolina (2) 6-0 1521 5 
5. Michigan 5-0 1490 6 
6. Auburn 6-0 1366 8 
7. Florida 5-1 1280 1 
8. LSU 5-1 1199 14 
9. Tennessee 4-1 1126 9 10. Washington 4-1 1121 10 11. Ohio St 5-1 1113 7 12. Michigan St 5-0 1058 11 13. Washington St 5-0 958 12 14. Texas A&M 5-0 827 15 15. Iowa 4-1 703 17 16. Oklahoma St 6-0 665 30 17. UCLA 4-2 637 18 18. Air Force 7-0 516 19 19. Georgia 4-1 446 13 20. Kansas St 4-1 388 22 21. Georgia Tech 4'-1 281 25 22. Virginia Tech 5-1 274 23 23. West Virginia 5-1 182 24. Wisconsin 6-1 134 25. Stanford 4-2 119 16 
Others receiving votes: Arizona St 69, New Mexico 57, Toledo 46., Purdue 38, Wyoming 26, Virginia 20, Alabama 15, Colorado 15, BYU 14, Miami, Ohio 11, Ohio 9, Clemson 8, Marshall 8, So Mississippi 5, Colorado St 4, Rice 4, No Carolina St 2. 
the second half, but we never panicked. I think the guys out there really felt like we were going to win this game." 
It wasn't the only time the Irish steppeg up when thny had to. After giv­ing up 14 points in the third quarter to watch the Panthers narrow the gap at 24-14. the unit rp,sponded in the fourth quarter, giving the Notre Dame offense a chance to put the game away. 


"I thought the defense really came The ObseJVer/John Daily 
Linebacker Lamont Bryant registered a key

through for us in the fourth quarter 
sack in the first quarter that helped curtail a

when we needed some stops," said 
Panther scoring opportunity. 

quarterback Hon Powlus. "It enabled us [the offense] to ker.p the ball and score fered a knee injury six minutes into the some points and eventually put the contest. led the Irish with seven tackles. game away." Fellow linebackers Jimmy Friday and 
All in all, it wasn't pretty, but it was Minor added six tackles apiece for the effective. The Notre Dame defense, linebacking corps. after falling apart a week ago in a 33-15 "I think we [the linebackers] felt par­loss to Stanford, bounced back against a ticularly responsible for what happened Pittsburgh offense that entered the in the second half against Stanford," game averaging nearly 400 yards per said Minor. "We took it upon ourselves contest. to step up today, and I think we were 
Freshman Grant Irons, who entered able to do that." the game after starter Ronnie Nicks suf-Better late than never. 
• STATISTICALlY SPEAKING 
1 2 3 4 F Notre Dame 14 0 10 21 45 Pittsburgh 0 0 14 7 21 
Team Statistics ND PITT First Downs 27 22 Net Yards Hushing 317 133 Net Yards Passing 160 216 
Passes attempted 20 34 Passes completed 13 16 Total Net Yards 477 349 
Fumbles: Number-Lost 1-0 0-0 Possession Time 31:17 28:43 
Individual Statistics 
Rushing 

ND-Denson 19-128, 2 touchdowns, Stokes 15-109, Spencer 6-40. 1 touchdown, Barry 5-19, Jackson 1-3, 1 touchdown. Powlus 2-3 
Pitt. Schulters 17-91, 1 touchdown. Barlow 11-40, 1 touchdown, Gonzalez 7-3, Schneider 1-(-1} 
Passing ND-Powlus 13-20-1, 160 Pitt-Gonzalez 16-32-0, 216 yards 1 touchdown, Barlow 
0-1, Lytle 0-1 

Receiving ND-Johnson 5-64, Brown 3-60. Nelson 2-16, Stokes 1­6. Denson 1-2 
Pitt.-Hoffart 6-77, Murphy 3-86, 1 touchdown. Schultcrs 3-20. Jones 1-14. McMullen 1-11, Williams 1-6, Angell-2 
• Scnm.NG SUMMAIW 
1st Quarter Notre Dame-B.ossum 93 yard return (Sanson kick) Notre Dame-Denson 50 yard run (Sanson kick) 
2Iid Quarter-no scoring 
3rd Quarter Notre Dame-FG Sanson 22 yards Pittsburgh-Achulters 6 yard run (Ferencik kick) Notre Dame-Spencer 33 yard run (Sanson kick) Pittsburgh-Barlow 9 yard run (Ferencik kick) 
4th Quarter Notre Dame-Denson 2 yard run (Sanson kick) Notre Dame-Jackson 3 yard run (Sanson kick) Pittsburgh-Murphy 9 yard pass from Gonzalez Notre Dame-Jackson 43 yard return (Sanson kick) 

Insight 
continued from page 1 
off return set the tone for an offensive effort that quieted critics who speculated about the talent level of the team, and the ability of the offensive line to allow two Irish runners to amass more than 100 yards answered any doubts about heart. The seemingly unat­tainable key to the internal struggle of the Notre Dame football has been turned, and it now has the confidence to face the outside world. 
Former Irish coach Lou Holtz, who has received the brunt of the lack-of-talent accu­sations, defended both Davie and the players in his halftime commentary on CBS, looking outside the team for the source of the prob­lem. 
''I'm employed by CBS, but my heart is still at Notre Dame," Holtz said. "Bob Davie's a great coach, and he has a lot of potential. It's not talent, and it's not coaching. It's confidence. It's time to stop pointing fin­gers, and I'm not talking about the media or the coaches or the players. I'm talking about the alumni and the surrounding com­munity." 
Well, for another first time this season, a pleasant silence blanketed the post-game Irish fans, and even though the performance was less than awe-inspiring. the team itself (versus the Monday-morning quarterbacks) provided the answers to the questions that have been lingering for the first half of the season. 
So where do the Irish go from here? l think it is safe to assume that a 6-0. or for that matter, a winning record would be the status of choice for the Irish right now. However, as Irish fans have learned this sea­son, reality is a harsh lesson, one that is often dealt with by denial and deferral of blame. Still, wins like Saturday's can teach us that, while it may not be the most fun or exciting way to go about it, reality, added to a touch of confidence, can bring forth a threatening calm going into one of the biggest rivalries in the nation. And even though this year's game might be between two mediocre teams fighting for a .500 record, the reassurance provided by Saturday's win, in addition to the long­awaited silence of Irish critics, could hope­fully prove deadly for the Trojans. 

--------~-------------------­
page 4 The Observer • IRISH INSIDER Monday, October 13, 1997 
''To overcome adversity someone has to step up and make a play. '' 
-Bob Davie 





grand as indicatml by tlw Irish running Stanford Band will lw offieially banrwd backs' !Autry Denson and CIPmont from rwrf'orming at any Stanf'ord-Notrn Stokes) pnrformancns. Damn game through the year 2000. "What. makns it swPnt. is to havn two Leland had aln~ady publicly apologized hal'ks go ovnr I 00 yards," Hobinson for tlw pPrform a nee, but additional said. ''l'vn nnvnr had that. hnppPn criticism from local Catholir school IH~forn." administrators (who eritiriwd the hand's performance as "bigotPd") pro­HOAD WOES OVEH -Tho win voked Leland and Uniwrsity 1wnsidnnt ovnr Pill brokn a four-gam(• losing (;prhard Casper to take f'urtlwr action. strnak on thn road for tlw Irish. Tlw Tlw ban includes a performance at last limn t.hn Irish won away from Stanford Stadium in 1999, and two honw was at Boston Collogn on Nov. <J pnrf'orrnancns at Notre Dame Stadium 
of last ynar. in I1)9~ and 2000. 
TIIIHD-QUAHTEH TEN -Jim QUOTE ON THE GAME: Sanson's finld goal was tlw first limo thn Irish have scornd in the third quar­Bob Oavie on the team's philosophy tnr all soason..lamio Sp<mcor's touch­going into the second half of the sea­down was the first third-quartor touch­son: down scor<~d all season for the Irish. 
"We're going to try to approach the rest of the season like we've really got

IRISH INJUHY REPORT: 
a eham:e to show some unique charctc­tnr to everyone in the country."

• Out-Inside linebaekor Honnie 
"I think we can continue to eliminateNicks tore cartilage in his right knoe. 

the mistakes and get better. It's so

lin will have the knee scoped as soon much easier to do when there's a posi­as possible, and the rnhabilitation pori­tive attitude and positive atmosphere."
od will be detnrmined then. 

Monday, October 13, 1997 page 9 


'Happy Gilmore' 
By SARA BRANDON and MARTY HARRIS 
Accent Movie Critics 
Grandma-lovin'-hockey-player-wanna-be Adam Sandler is hilarious in this classic video rental. Sandler, best known for his Saturday Night Live "Halloween Trick or Treat" skit, makes a smooth transition to the big screen in "Happy Gilmore." So, if you are the one person lr,ft on campus who has not seen this treasure, this column goes out to you. 
Hockey is the tragic downfall of Sandler's life: his dad dies by the puck, he himself cannot play for the love of God, and his girlfriend falls off a cliff and dies on impact (which is code for "she left him because he's a loser"). None of these pitiful events can tear Sandlr,r's clinging hands from his beloved hockey stick -that is, until his grandma has her house repossessed and goes to a nursing homr-. His grand­ma hasn't paid her taxes in years and Sandler must turn golf pro to pay back the money, reclaim the house, and save the day. 
Enter Chubbs-the wooden-hand-sportin', alligator­hatin', crazy-glue-usin' golf m1mtor. C:hubbs is our pick for funniest character (behind Adam. of coursn, who is strange­ly ... no oddly ... no strangely, attractive). Who can deny the mile-long wing span of Chubbs wooden arm? lie cannot give up the dream as he glues the hand together after a dose encountm with a Mack truck. 
The plot is quirky and playful. Adam ke11ps you interested with his whiny voice saying "grandma" every five minutes. Sandler's bitter humor and outrageously violent temper keep the laughter rolling. An exampln of his short fuse includes a brawl with tanned and cheesy game show host. Bob Barker. The two duke it out on tlw course. Other high­lights involve nails through the head, homeless caddies, midgr-ts on tricycles, Happy's place. random hook-ups with old women. and three-mile drives to the green. 
Our favorite scmw takes place at the old peoples' home. SandlPr (who tn1asures grandma) has no idea the home is a sweat shop for the retirees, a.k.a. tlw male attnndant/nurse runs an underground quilting scam. The best scene is when a crazed, big haired, old chirk throws her body on the hood of Sandler's ear screaming: "Get me OUT OF IIER.E!" 
Our Ratings: 
Best hair: Sandler's first caddir, wins our vote. His bleached and big hair give him an "I just smoked pot five minutes ago" look. Or maybe he just got back from a semes­ter abroad in London? 
Best clothes: Sandler's l"lannel shirts combined with sweats and Timberland boots scream hockey player. We would not recommend this outfit for the masses but Sandler looks, well. hot. Call us crazy. but the nastier he looks the better! 
Best line: Sandler seducing press agent: "What? Friends listen to 'Endless Love' in thr, dark!" 
Best accomplishment: For Sandler it was not winning the golf championship with no prior experiencr, or making hun­dreds of thousands of dollars or becoming Subway's celebrity spokesperson. No, as Sandler says: "I am the only hockey player who took off his skate to try to stab some­one." 
In conclusion, this movie is perfr,ct for unwinding with your friends after a tough week. All should appreciatr, the random spiral into oblivion. It is just funny. 

I. Kiss the Girls 
2. 
Seven Years in Tibet 

3. 
Soul Food 

4. 
In & Out 

5. 
The Peacemaker 

6. 
Rocket Man 

7. 
L.A. Confidential 

8. 
The Edge 

9. 
Most Wanted I0. Gang Related 


Source: Associated Press 

• SOAP OPERA UPDATES 

General Hospital 
By GENEVIEVE MORRILL 
General Hospital Correspondem 

This past week in Port Charles, Lorraine, upon discovering that Carly is involved with both a doctor and a Quartermaine, raises her price and begins stalking Carly at home and the hospital. This is bad news tor the Doc. and his pregnant bride,to-be who are shopping for baby stuff and moving into their new house. A.J. and early go for round No. 567 after she wants to know why 
they are no longer friends. . . . ... ·.··.. . . . ··. . . . . . .. . .·. . Luck's home and is giving attitude to everyone from Lucky ("Must go to Switzerland") to Carly (''You bad") to Stefan ("You evil!"). Uncle Luke shows up and tears into Carly for getting preg­nant; he's convinced she's working an angle. She tries .to convince Luke she's changed, hut he's not buying it. When she accepts a package for A.J. he asks if something is up and threatens to go over and talk to A.J. Carly, like an idiot, makes too much of making nothing ofit and Luke is now on thescent like a bloodhound. early's luck gets worse when Bobbie sees her paying Lorraine off. and is only too pleased to tell Tony. Carly brushes it off as a nursing school loan, but Lorraine still calls Tony and tells him about the sonogram. Monica and A.J. bond over orange juice and she. asks him to let her back in his life. When Carly 
comes over, Monica refuses to let her in and reminds her to stay the heck away from A.J. Although he is grateful that she cares, A.J, still refuses to let Monica tell Alan about his slip. Later, Keesha and A.J. bond over sodas and plan a date-a date which he can't keep since he's locked in the supply closet with early. 
Overcome with emotion, Nik and Sarah do somemajor making out, then go to their own suspi­cions about who is responsible. He confronts Lizzie who denies everything. She then turns around and tells Audrey that Nik is working to turn Sarah against her. Memo to Lizzie: you don't need any help in that department. Audrey promises her support if Lizzie is t{llling the truth. Ifshe reab ly did frame her sister ... burning atthe stake! Audrey's wise to her game, but not Sarah. But when Lizzie tells Sarah to dump loser Nikolas (Whoa! Cute plus rich plus adores you doesn't equal loser!), and reveals her knowledge of the lucky pen, Sarah's longunderused brain beginsto crank. 
Alexis tries to revive Katherine, as Stefan, with love in his voice, begs her to live. He asks Alexis why she hates her own flesh and blood enough to p:ush her down the stairs. A grimAlexis refuses to be interrogated. After she gets off the floor, Kathy tears into Stefan: "When you thought I was dead, you sounded like you cared," She then goes to Edward and asks him to plead her case before the GH Board. At the meeting, the entire Q Clan stands up for her, but is shot down when Stefan produces doctored figures that accuse her of misusing hospital funds. Shocked, Katherine withdraws her request; heartbroken, she asks Stefan why. His response? See ya! Bobbie offers her comfort, and Luke offers her revenge. 
Brenda almost has everyone convinced she's fine, but then she performs grand theft cellular when she mistakenly thinks Jason is talking to Sonny. She manages to scare Emily aJld drive her'" self nuts. Jax takes her to the penthouse and invites her to stay. YES, YES, I'll be there after my French midterm! -Oh, Brenda, not me, got it. She doesn't want to take advantage, but is con­vinced. She even bonds with V. when she comes over. Brenda, here's your> chance, throw that annoying Miranda lookalike off the balcony for the good of the show. ·· 
Good luck on midterms, GH fans, and don't forget to put GH in your break schedule! 
Genevieve Morrill can be reached at morr8584@saintmarys. edu for questions or comments. 

Days QfOur Lives 
By NAOMI FREEMAN, KRISTINE HOWARD, and NICOLE PAULINA 
Days ofOur Lives' Correspondents 
~:..:::.;...:::.:::...::..:..::...:::.:.:.:;:.:;c.:,:.:::.:.:.::,.._,......_,_-:--:--:-,;..,........----'-----:---,-~-:-...._;,-:-'"7•· lt 
Hello "Days'" fa~s! Wow, what a ~eek! Not only did Notre Dame pull out a victory, btit Eri~ Brady finally got his hair cut! We'~e.. ~t ~it mixed ortthe verdict, .though. As itstand~ amongst th~ three.ofus, we'vegot two votesii). fav(}r and one (v~heniently) against.We'd be interested in get• ting a reaction from some of YOU. Why not e-mail us? But now, on to weightier concerns. 
After resct.~ing Jen from the Iasyiyio~!) ~dvapces ofT,C., Jack flees ~itJ1.Jen to. his ~~ll w.hf.l.re she. hides under the bed while T.C. and sc:Hne ofhis buddies kick the crap o:ut of Jack. Later, while Jen 
.... tends to his wounds, the cell doorcloses: LOCKDOWN! So Jen decides to make the m(jst ofthe situ­ation, snuggling down with Jack .with nary a thought .of what she will do in thf.l. morping. f}nd we 
thought breaking pafietals was a serious offense! · 
Vivian and Ivan finally move out of their little apartmentwith the help of Bi9Bert~~-. Over at th~ mansion, Jonesy is awakened by a mysteriou~ phone call in which he assures the sp(laker that he "is watching all your stuff, Sir, just like I always do." Apparently Viv is in for a shock when she 
finds out that all the antiques she plan~ t() stealfrom Jonesy aren'treally his! 
Homan and Marlena decide to spend a crisp October day out .at the Horton Cabin on Smith Island. Apparently they used to do this quite a bit; we got an entire series of "fake" flashbacks involving the two ofthem. (Why !io they. think tl1at a ponytail will ~utoJ1latically mak~Marlena look 10 years younger?). Roman's medication has been losing effectiyeness; though, and whenhe col­lapses he has to be air-lifted to th.e ho~pital. John had better get~ack with that cure soon! ... 
Speaking ofMr.•Black, he anqHop~ $v:rv1y~th~••. cliff·adventrrr~•withmi.nim~I injuries;..•seeking· refuge in an "empty" cave. Of course the natives pop. outas soon as the two of the~ go to sleep, and the very next scene shows .flope~ied up to a pole with war paint.all oyer he£ "fancyface.~ After hallucinating about a reseue fr(l.tl1 Bo, she's finally s~ved by J'obiJ.. The two QT thenLpress onward, but are thwarfed again by the • natives. Luckily th.ey are spotted by Kristin and Stefano, 
who "\¥ent out in a helicopter ladder;·though, one can only a mission.  Kti~t.b1.9~tg Stefano ;tt gv:nPob!t.·.·~· Hope bC'l~ to clim,b t~~ erwhetMr~obn will follow. It's notlikeJotpt Black to ~bandon · ·  
''Days" had $Orne more  
Of course we all know it  
Franco are off having a  .  
in· ari effortto get on With  
She, ofcourse; LOVES  
"Days" writers na·ve ltle(:JO.EIUsheis ·· ····· ··  
Also in  
Debra a '-'•t<••u~.-.~~.  
Jourth~·  

.. 
page 10 The Observer • SPORTS Monday, October 13, 1997 
• SMC SoccER 

Belles defense falls short 
Saint Mary's drops two tight contests 
By LYNETTE MALECKI Sports Writer 
It was a long weekend for the Saint Mary's soccer team after facing two more chal­lenging opponents. 
On Saturday the Belles lost 3-1 to Albion College (5-7-1). and Sunday resulted in a 2-1 loss to Wisconsin-WhitewatPr (9-6-0) in sudden death owr­time. 
The Belles' offense improved this weekend with good pass­ing and plenty of shot opportu­nities. However, they just could not seem to find the nnt. 
"We had plenty of opportuni­ties; we just need to focus on shooting more for the post and getting it into the net," head coach Bob Sharp said. 
In Saturday's game, the Belles started out aggressive. but it was Albion that scored four minutes into the gamn. Albion was able to score I I minutes later after a critical missed pass by the Belles de1~p in their own territory. At thP end of the first half, Albion lnd 
3-0. 
During the second half. tlw Belles' defense stepped up after some of the players were 
switched around. This allowt)d the dcfensB to bn morn eiTec­tive, holding Albion oiT from any additional goals. Senior forward Debbie Diemer was able to score the Bellns only goal midway through tlw SI)C­ond half. 
"The problem during tlw l'irst half was that we didn't have tlw right pPopln in t.hP right placns. Tlw sPcorHI hall' was much bntll'r aflPr ,,.,. switclwd Dnbbi1• back to mid­l'inlcl. That creal('(] mort• shot opportunities," Sharp said. 
Sharp also addl'd that lhl' Bnlles ddt~nsivn errors Wl'rn dun to a communication prob­lem bPtwnPn him and tlw play­Prs. "It was not anything tlw girls WPrP doing wrong. it was a coaching Prror," IH~ said. 
Sunday's ganu~ against Wisronsin-Whitewat1•r provPd to lw nqually rhallnnging. OnrP again. tlw lh·llns camP out lighting with a lwightPnPd intnnsity. 
They had SI'V!)ral solid shots on Wisronsin-\'\'hitnwatnr's goaliP but onrn again had troubl1• scoring. ;\bout 20 min­u t n s in lo t lw l'i r s t 11 a Ir. Wisconsin st:ornd tlw lirst goal of the ganw. slamming it into till' Uppnr ldt cornl'r ol' lh!) rwt. At til!' hall'. tl11• scor1• r!•mairwd 1-0. 
1:arly into tlw SPrond hall'. junior Katit• Wagrwr til'd thl' ganw for tht• Bt~ll~~s. SI'IIlling tlw ball soaring ovl'r tlw IH~ad of Wisconsin's goalie. Both tnams continuod to play a very physical gamo and excdlent ddnnsn. At tlw ond of the half, thn ganw rnmainnd lind 1-1, and thn Bdles wnnt into sud­dt•n dnath ovortimn. 

"Wn wnn) playing vnry good. Wt) rnally wanted to got a quick scorn. but wn worn play­ing into lhn wind which made it dil'licult." Sharp said. 
,\l'tn tht• l'irst. 15-minutn pPriod. nnither team had scorl'd. l:inally. halfway into tlw S!H'OIHI 15-minuln period. \Visconsin-Whilewalt)r fought. fnr a hard-1·arnnd goal, send­ing it ov1•r tlw lwad of junior goalil• .lo Wagrwr. 
"W1• an• still playing individ­ually whirh is harming thn ]ll'l'l'ormancn or thn lnam," junior rnidl'i1~ld!~r Moniea C1•rrtannc said. 
;\t rvlonday's prartil:n the lkllt•s will focus on shooting goals amongst dnnse dnfnnd­Prs at a rlosl' proximity sincn this snn m s to lw wlw ro the lkllt•s arn having the most dif­l'irulty. v\'ith plnnly of scoring 
op po r tun iti I'S, all th!) Hellos n1•!'d now arl' tlw goals. 
"l'nrsistaiH'I) and ddPrmina­tion will dt~lPrminn the out­rom!' of th1~ lPam's pnrfor­m an r !' on Tunsday." said \'\'agrll'r. 
Tl11• llPII1•s nnxt game is T u <' s d a y a t ho nw a ga i n s t lll'l'ianrl' C:oll1•ge (0-1 0) at :{ p.m. 
Hockey 
continued from page 16 
with a multiple-point game on Friday night, Dhadphale seems back on track. 
"I was very, very pleased with the way we played tonight," summarized Poulin. 
"Them definitely were a Jot of positives," added Noble. 
Perhaps the biggest positive was winning their first close game. Sometimes. winning the lirst dose ganw can give a team tho conlidence it needs to win the next game. 
"This will ddinitely help us to win other clos1~ gamfls," said Noble. "We just showed a lot of mental toughness and kept going when it was tied in the third period. I also think that they were getting tired, but we just kept coming at tlwm. That's a tribute to our conditioning pro­gram. We were not fatiguod." 
!\contributing factor to the onergy of tim Irish was the fact that they used most of their bench during tho whole game. 
"Usually you shorton your bonch as the gamo proceeds," stated Poulin. "But there was no need for that tonight because everyone played well, and they all demanded ice time." 
The game was an excellent opportunity for the freshmen to mature, and it was an opportu­nity that they took advantage of. 
"You just can't simulate a game atmosphere in practice," explained Eaton. "You can only talk about what it's going to be like for a while, but eventually you just have to experience it for yourself. This game was defi­nitely helpful for us to under­stand what it feels like to play in a collegiate game." 
According to Eaton, the Mustangs certainly aren't the toughest team they will face all season. This weekend. the Irish travel to play St. Cloud State for another pair of non-conference games in preparation for the CCIIA season, which officially begins on llalloween at home against Michigan State. 
"We didn't have any glaring errors," said Noble. "But there are always things that you need to work 011. I think that we're going to have a very good week of practice. We'II probably work on a few s1~t plays and on our positioning. We have to keep improving and fighting because we are going to face tougher competition down the road." 
Congrats to Hoops for Homeless winners 
Neil Jakobe Sean Murtha Marti Klaasen The tournament raised $200. 

l he l)hserver accepts dassi~lcds every busmcss day hom ~ a.m. ro 3 p.m. at rhe Nor~e Dame off1ce, .~ 14 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. ro 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day
Classifieds classifleds is Jp.m. All classiheds must he prepaid. The charge is 3 cents per character per day, includ­ing all spaces. The Observer reserves rhe right ro edit all classitleds for content without issuing refunds. 
LARGE REAL ESTATE CO  THAT PRETTY PLACE. Bed  4 USC GAs  ################  I need 6 GA BC tickets! I'll  
NR. CAMPUS IS SEEKINGNOTICES  and Breakfast Inn has space  703-590-9374  For Sale:  take  
RELIABLE PART-TIME  available for football/parent  lv msg  2 BC Student tickets  as many as I can get! Please  
RECEPTIONIST. PHONE &  wknds. 5 Rooms with private  (Not GA's)  call Amanda at 634-0831!  
000 THE COPY SHOP 000 COMPUTER EXPERIENCE A  baths. $70-$90,  Wanted: Individual wants tick­ call Jenny @ 687-8435  
LaFortune Student Center MUST. $7.75/HOUR, 1-6 M-F;  Middlebury, 30 miles from  ets for LSU/Notre Dame Game.  ################  FOR SALE:  
Store Hours 9-2 SAT. SEND RESUMES TO  campus. Toll Road, Exit #107.  Will pay cash. Phone (318)752­ ND vs. USC Tickets  
Mon.-Thur.: 7:30 a.m.-Midnight P.O BOX 11397, SOUTH  1-800-418-9487.  1208 or (318)747-8820.  Married stud tix $110 both  273-3911  
Fri.: 7:30 a.m.-7:00p.m. BEND, IN 46634.  4-4610 (even)  
Sat.: Noon-6:00p.m. Sun.: Noon-Midnight Gold!! Wanted reps., unlimited  FURNISHED HOMES GOOD AREA NORTH OF NO FOR  Need BC GA's. Grandparents  NOTRE DAME  PERSONAL  
(closed home football Sat.'s) earning potential!!  NEXT SCHOOL YEAR  are coming in and will pay  FOOTBALL TICKETS  
Phone 631-COPY 616-461-6772.  2773097  good money! Call Frank, 4­ BUY -SELL-TRADE  Married, childless white couple  
FREE TRIPS & CASH! ILOST & FOUND I SPRING BREAK! Outgoing  FOR SALE  2340.  232-"0058 CONFIDENTIAL TICKET-MART, INC.  of 13 yrs. seek to adopt infant. Please call 1-800-916-5629, access code 92.  
individuals-sell 15 & go  
would appreciate anyone who FREE. Cancun, South Padre,  -89 Buick LeSabre,4D, 96K, V.  I need tix for NO/USC game. I  BUY/SELL NO SEASON AND  000 THE COPY SHOP 000  
finds keys to room 308 to call Mazatlan. Jamaica, South  good. Ctean,One owner, $4000  am willing to trade NO/West  INDIVIDUAL GAME TICKETS.  LaFortune Student Center  
x1862 Beach, FL. Guaranteed Best  Call:232-3707  Vir. tix or NO/Navy tix or pay  674-7645.  -J High-Speed Copies  
If you find the little grit who Prices. 1-800-SURFS-UP.  -91 Ford Taurus,HBack, 4d,  cash ... Call Bob (818)793­ -J Canon Color Laser Copies  
stole them, you can also call www.studentexpress.com  72K, One owner, V. clean, Call:  0412  NO FOOTBALL TICKETS  -J Digital Color Printing  
x1862  288­ FOR SALE  -J Binding & Laminating  
...EARN FREE TRIPS &  2808  DAYTIME#: 232-2378  ..; Public Fax Service 631-FAX1  
blue bookbag lost in bookstore CASH***  EVENING #: 288-2726  Phone 631-COPY  
on 10/1 . if found call steve at CLASS TRAVEL needs stu­ -86 Honda Prelude. 20, V.  NEED WV Tix a.s.a.p.  
x-2070. REWARD OFFERED!! dents to promote Spring Break  Clean, V.G condition Just  Call Chris 4-2220  NO TICKETS WANTED  help my aero project isn't done  
1998! Sell 15 trips & travel free!  $1800. Call: 277-3254 •  DAYTIME #: 232-2378  
Highly motivated students can  -90 Honda Civic, V. Clean,  I want to trade 6 Navy tixs for 3  EVENING #: 288-2726  i am going to kill you, and don't  
LOST: BLUE FOSSIL WATCH earn a free trip & over $1 0,000'  Like new, 5spd, Low Mitge,  BC tixs Call Sam 289-2767  think that i am kidding  
with leather band Choose Cancun, Bahamas.  Just $3800, Call: Hamad, 277­ FOR SALE  
call: john -4197 reward!! Mazatlan. Jamaica or Florida!  3254  4 GA's to Navy for sale!!!  N.D. G.A.'S  Don't forget to  
please! North America's largest student  Call Colleen @ 4-3848  271-9412.  turn in your  
tour operator! Call Now! 1-800­ I have 3 Ga's lor Navy game  LONDON PROGRAM  
lost CAMERA at west quad for­838-6411  great for parents and other lam  Alumni needs 3 GA USC tixs.  WANTED N D G A'S  APPLICATION  
mal call ali X1511  call Eric x1517  Call Megan at773-327-1480.  TO ALL HOME GAMES  
**Spring Break..."Take 2'"*  271 1526  
Hiring Reps! Sell15 .. Take 2  91 Saturn SL2, V.G. condition,  I need 2 USC GAs. 634-3880  B.O.M.  
Free. Hot destinations! Free  call:631-7629.  2 stud tix lor sate. all home  Productions  
LOST: key ring with TAZ key Parties, Eats, Drinks.  USC GA's needed DESPER­ games. Call 4-3313  Tuesday Finnigans Irish Pub  
...  chain. last seen on lakeside of SunSptash 1-800-426­ GREAT DEAL on 35mm cam­ ATELY!!!!!!!!!  
Bond Hall. please call Mike at 771 O/www.sunsplashtours.com  era. Brand new Minotta  Call Colin at 288-2504  He called!  
X3528 I FORRENT I  Maxxum 500si. Sigma 28-80: 70-210 lenses, 4 filters. List $825 Sell $625. 277-5912 b4  FOR SALE 3 USC GAs  WANTED: 2 BC TIX. WILL TRADE FOR WVA GA'S OR CASH. CALL JOHN AT  I feel goopy!  
WANTED I BULLA RD. MCKINLEY TE-R­1::::==============:---' RACE, SWANSON PARK 3  10 pm Mac llci 8MB Ram, 250MB HD,  $160 obo 284-5116  (415) 668-1391 BY 10/18.  It's a party train in the Haunted House!  
BDRM  Color Monitor, &More! $450  need 1 std GA lor BC  He is the big boss man.  
SUPERSTAR STUDENTS HOMES. 1 & 2 BDRM  Call x5755  273-3227  Need 2 USC GA'S and 4 BC  
NEEDED! Earn $ signing up DUPLEXS ALSO. 2726551  GA'S For Family. Call Rob or  What up with the outfit?  
friends & classmates for our credit cards. Opportunity to ROOMS IN PRIVATE HOME  TICKETS  2 BC GA's for sale (757)671-1649  Bobby X3056  To my favorite deputy grand  
advance to campus manager FOR FOOTBALL WEEKENDS  knight-ALL HAIL!!!!!  
involving hiring &training other AND OTHER ND-SMC  I NEED GA TtXS ALL NO  2 USC GA's & 1 BC StUD GA  USC .. BOSTON.. NAVY  
students. No car required. Must EVENTS.  HOME GAMES.272-6551  4 SALE !!!!!!!!  W.VA.GAs FOR SALE 272­ Photo Joe is the best man in  
be outgoing &aggressive! VERY CLOSE TO CAMPUS ­ X2555  7233  the entire world.  
Flexible hours &great income! 5 MIN. DRIVE OR 15-20 MIN.  NEED 4 STUD TIX -GA'D  
Call Val at 800-592-2121 X154 WALK.  FOR NAVY CALL TODD  USC stud tix $30  GARTH BROOKS  t hate doing the Classifieds.  
243-0658.  243 5609  287-9998  IN CHICAGO 272-7233 ...  

Monday, October 13, 1997 The Observer· SPORTS page 11 

Volleyball 
continued from page 16 
onship match of the Big East tournament last season. 
With the loss, the Eagles fall to 5-16 on the season and 1-3 in Big East action. 
On Sunday afternoon, the Irish faced off against a Providence squad that did not have mlil:h success against Notre Dame in recent years. The Friars' luck did not change this year, as they lost to the Irish in three games, 15-7, 15-5, 15-4. 
The Irish were led by senior hitter Angie Harris, who recorded 17 kills, while Lee tallied 12 kills. The team had an overall hitting percentage of .371 while holding the Friars to .189 hitting. 
Providence was led by senior captain Heidi Brady 
.....
and freshman hitter Heidi 
Filippi, who each tallied 10 
kills for the Friars. 
Junior Missy Crotty also helped the losing cause, mak­ing eight kills on 13 attempts for a team-best .461 hitting percentage. Providence drops to 15-9 overall and 1-3 in conference play. 
The series extended Notre Dame's winning streak to a season-high six matches. During this streak, the team has averaged .364 hitting, with the team of Harris, Lee, 
The Observer/John Daily 
Leffers and Treadwell each

Senior hitter Angie Harris(left) and sophomore Mary Letters aided the 
totaling between 40 and 66

Irish squad with 34 kills between them ~gains! Boston College. 
kills. Leffers did not commit a single hitting error during both matches this weekend. 


With the two victories, Notre Dame improves to 12-5Over 40 years of experience 
· on the season and 4-0 in Big Ortho..Specialist 
East play. The Irish will return to the

Fix any type leather 
court this Friday againstQuick Service .. Reasonable 
North Carolina before head­.-------------~---,1 ing off on a five-match road 

Open: 8-6 Mon-Fri 8-3 Sat 1025 E.Madison St. 288-6211 
Notre Dame 
tr.ip, the longest of the season. The match against the Tar
Mario's~--­
Heels starts at 8 p.m. in the 
• 
-7-ll

l025 E.Madison St. 
Joyce Center. 

C a II 1-800-878-3872 
www.att.com/college/np.html 
-
-
AT&T 
It's all within your reach. 

"" 1991 111&1 


Hel~ 
Turning Point 
help people 

L

i....

•,•,•,•.•.•.•,•.•.•.•.•.•.•.•.•.•.•.·,•.•.•.·.·····················•''•'•'•"•'•'•'.W•'•''•'•'•''•'•""""'·'•'•'•'.wu.•....u.•.....•.•.....•.•.·.·.•.·.·.·.•O' 
Join the United Way/Notre Dame team and pledge your support today 
Turning Point ­offering family and children's services including
Turning1~~i,_nt 
sexual abuse treatment, family and marriage
.r-~ 11.,.. •• '•••~>•("~"""'•lerl,.i 1,~;··~.1.~~-~::·· ... 
counseling, and emergency financial assistance 
page 12 

Irish 
continued from page 16 
"It's frustrating to lose when we played a very good game." coach Mike Berticelli said. "To Syracuse's credit, they played well. and we were just unable to score; and we need to scon~ goals to win. Though we played as well as we have all 
year and created some  good  
chances,  we  were  just  
unlucky."  

The first half saw both tnams trying to grab control of the game. Both were able to cn~atP scoring opportunities but could not capitalize to givr, their team the edge going into the locker rooms. 
Twenty minutes into the sec­ond half, Syracuse was able to beat the Irish defense for the lone goal of the game. Junior Jeff Knittel's seven-yard volley off of a rebound put the Orangemen up 1-0. 
Knittel's goal came after freshman Matt Torok's ten-yard shot which was deflected by sophomore Irish defensomen Alan Woods as it headed toward the goal. It was the first goal allowed by the Irish in the Big East season. 
Notre Dame responded by putting relentless prt)ssure on the Syracuse dnf<msn, creating many chances to tiP the ganw. On one of the Irish's many scor­ing opportunities. tlw ball was put past Orangemon goalie Dan Hobson. only to havn a defend­er head the ball away at tlw goal line. Notm Dame was abiP to collect the ball on tlw rebound and get oiT anotlwr shot which was blocked again by a defender on tlw goal linn. 
Another great chancn camP off the foot of sophomore Androw Aris. Aris was abll~ to weave through two Syracuse defensemen and hit a slwt from the top of the box. Tlw shot got by Hobson only to lw tunwd away by the post with Syracusn clearing the rebound. 
"You can never prnpan) for games liko theso wlwrn tlw ball just doesn't botiiH'P your way, but if you're playing soccnr its bound to happen." BerticPIIi eomnwnted. "It's tough to lose a Big East ganw to Syracuse at this time in tlw sPason. and it makns the upcoming games even more important." 
ThP Irish hop<' lo rnbound against Wnstern rvtichigan on Tuesday night al Alumni Finld. 
The Observer· SPORTS 


Sports ()epartment 
fiRe to thanK ourJrien()sJrom 's JimJor their hospita(it~. of the 6est 6uffaCo wings, s, an() 6iggest ){otre Dame ns in Pitts6urgh!" 



NOTRE DAME BASKETBALL 
When: Where: Bring: 
Policy: Oc1ober 14,15 (8am-5pm) Joyce Center (Gate 10) Student ID $44 per ticket (11 home games) Each student may only purchase one ticket and must present their own ID General Admission seating for all games in the student section 

631-7356 for more information 
US 31 NORTH 273-3890 
Every Monday 
14" Cheese Pizza for $7.95 C$1.00 per each additional topping) All-You-Can-Eat 
Pizza and Pasta for $5.00 
Hours: Sun.-Thurs. 4:00-10:00 Fri.-Sat. 4:00-11:00 
Mon.-Fri. Lunch 11:00-1:30 
6:00-9:30 

Come and watch Monday Night Football 
BUILDING THE BRIDGE 
Paving the way for Tomorrow's Leaders 
·If you wont the chance to pursue professional challenges and push the possibilities of achieve· 
men!, now is the time to join Old Kent. We ore a leading financial services provider based in 
Grand Rapids, Ml that is experiencing continued growth and expansion, all in on environment 
that maintains a proven record for motivation, prosperity and stability. Currenrly, we hove 
unbeatable opportunities available lor those who share our commitment to excellence. Join us: 
• Branch Mana~ement Trainees 
We seek energetic, creative co~idates with strong soles orientation and a desire to use man· agement and analytical skills. Our trainees will be involved in promoting financial products while providing quality service to customers. Success demands proven initiative and an interest in developing a career in retail banking. Alter training, candidates will be assigned to a branch to assume challenging management, operations and special projects responsibilities. 
• Credit Analysts 
Keys to success in this position include solid analytical and proven relationship building skills. 
Responsibilities include analyzing middle market companies that are interested in financing, 
examining past performance and projecting future performance levels. This is an excellent 
opportunity to learn about a variety of industries. Analysts will complete a comprehensive 
training program to get them started on the path to success. 
At Old Kent, our employees are expected to make decisions and pursue challenges, as well as actively participate in our innovative efforts to enhance traditional banking products on an ongoing basis. All Old Kent employees enjoy a competitive compensation ond benefits package. Some of the above positions also offer incentive compensation. Join us during this exciting time of improvement and evolution, and start building the bridges to a great professional future today. 
We will be on campus interviewing for MBA positions on Oct. 29 and Nov. 17 for undergrods. 
Please contact your Career Services Office lor more details. EOE 
OLOI(ENT 

Monday, October 13, 1997 
The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 13 

Life's easier with 10¢ a minute, AT&T Call Organizer® and Student Advantage®. It's all FREE just for being with AT&T. 
• 
10¢ A MINUTE-AT&T Simple Rates®-on long distance calls from home to anywhere in the 

U.S. from 7pm-7am weekdays and all weekend long; 25¢ a minute all other times. 

• 
FREE AT&T CALL ORGANIZER: no more hassles-use your personalized code before you dial, and we'll tally your phone bill by roommate (up to 12 people per bill). 

• 
FREE STUDENT ADVANTAGE: get special offers and up to 50% off every day at thousands 


of your favorite neighborhood places and national sponsors-like Kinko's~ Tower Records® and Amtrak~ 
AT&T Stmple Rates IS ava1lable to AT&T res•dent1allo~g dtstance subscnbe1·s, ts subJect to' billing avallabtllty and_ can't be comb•ned w•th any other ~omest1c sav1~gs opt1ons. Th1s plan also offers rates for other types of calls on your ma•n-billed account. call for details. Enroll by 11/30/97. Plan ts avatlable unttl 12131/97. If AT&T Stmple Rates btlling tsn't avatlable tn 
your area. you'll be enrolled tn the AT&T One Rate Plan 

Live off campus? Get it all FREE with one easy call. 
C a II 1-800-878-3872 
or visit www.att.com/college/np.html 
It's all with n your reach. 
ATa.T 
© 1997 AT&T 
----~ --~--­
----~----~-----~~ 
Monday, October 13, 1997 

page 14 The Observer • SPORTS 
• WOMEN'S SOCCER 


Streiffer's four goals lead team to shutout 
finldPr contwclnd on two of' lwr firstBy ALLISON KRILLA thrnP shots in Llw conlnsl, opening
Spores Writer tlw scoring f'or Notrn Dame at 13:14 The Notre Dame women's soccer lnam continu<'d its by !wading in a t"ross from Kant domination of the Big East. posting a 9-0 win oVI'r Brown. Georgetown to remain a perfect 7-0 in ronl'<'rt)IH'P play .Just ovnr on<' minuln lat<~r. snnior midfiPidnr llolly Manllwi dished ofT
this season. 

The nine goals for the Irish wen• tlw most tiH•y havn on<' of' hnr !'our assists to Stn~iiTer scored this season and was their higlwst Lol1tl sinl'<' !'or tlw ganH's sncond goal. Manthei posting a 10-1 win over Villanova on Nov. 3. 19%. now has I X assists in I:~ gamns !'or 
"We did fairly well against GeorgPLown," said r-.tonit'a tlw Irish. Gerardo. "We played pretty consisl<·ntly evl'n lhtiugh it (;nrardo, rnlurning from an ankh~ is difficult sometimes to get up for a game likn this." injury sul'f'nrncl against Boston 
Jenny. Streiffer paced the Irish ( 12-0-1) with !'our Coll<'gt' on Oct. 5, teamed up with goals, giving her 10 on the year. Tlw sophomorn mid-Mantlwi. scoring the learn's third 




goal ofT a give-and-go. 
."(lligh scoring) games lik<' lhnsn are a lot of' l'im." said Gerardo, "but Lhny'rn just as Lough as closn games bneause its hard to l'inish your chanrns all tlw LimP. 
"Tiwy're lwlping us gel tognllwr. Wn get bt~tler al moving the ball and passing which will ht~l p us in llw postseason." 
Bl'f'orn tlw half, i\nnn Makinnn put tlw Irish alwad 4-0, Laking a pass !'rom Shannon Boxx and Monira (;onzalnz and fir­ing a rork<'l through tlw hands of' tlw lloyas' goal­k<'<'fll'r !'rom 20 yards out. 
111 tlw stH:ond hall', lloxx vollt~yPd in a pass !'rom 1\lanlhPi at 41-\:5:~. and Strnif'f'nr found tlw hat"k of' tlw nnt with anotlwr Manthni l't~<'d I 0 
lllillUl<•s lat<•r. TheObserver/BrandonCandura 
t\I'L<'r stnaling th<' ball Senior Holly Manthei chalked up four assists against the Georgetown Hoyas. !'rom a I Iovas ddnnd<•r as sht~ !rind to t:Inar 15 minutns rnmaining in the gamn. tlw ball r,:om 25 yards out, SlrnifTer lwal LaKnysia Bnnnn rt~cordnd hnr 1Olh shutout of the thn·<' dPI'Pmlnrs and nl'llnd ht~r fourth goal snason, lownring lwr goals against average to .313, !'rom Pight yards. o1w of tlw top in thn nation. 
At (>2:20, Makirwn t·onnnctnd on a slrikn Nt)Xl on tlw horizon !'or Nolrn Dame is Big Ten foe !'rom Kdly l.indst)y, lwr sncond assist of llw Wisconsin hdorn a string of' three consneutive confer­
ganw. Mnolis Erikson closml out Llw scoring <'lli'P ganws. 
!'or Notn• Damn at X2:4<J, giving tlw Irish a "This wnnk will be prdty tough," said Gerardo. "We 
()-0 vil'lory. havn a big rivalry with Wisconsin, and they always 
Nolrn Damn outshol tlw Iloyas 40-1, play us tough. We just havn to be prepared to come out allowing Llw only shot on goal with lnss than and play our ganw."
Notre Dame Martial Arts Institute -Tae kwon do and jujitsu practice for beginners will take place from 4 to 6 
p.m. 
on Thursdays and 6 to 8 

p.m. 
on Sundays in Room 218 Rockne Memorial. 


Field Hockey -Practice will be on Mondays and Wednesdays from 9 to 10 p.m. in Loftus. Call Maureen at 4­4281 or Stephanie at 4-2741 vvith any qw·stions. 
Synchronized Swimming ­Practices an• lwld on Mondavs and W()(!twsdavs !'rom R to l0 fJ.IIl. and S111i days from I 0 a.in. to 1 p.m. 
MPn's baskl'lball walk-on tryouts-Trvouls 1\iiiiH· lwld 01i Monday a·nd Tuesday. Oct. ',!.7 ,v.. ~8. fro111 7 to R::W p.m. in tlw .Joyct~ Ct•nt<•r. Candidat<~S must a'ttcnd both sl'ssions. 

Taking Applications for Fall '98 and January '98 
• 
Fllt"nish/central air • 24 hour laundry 

• 
Ailtitilities included • Flexible lease plans 

• 
Indoor poo1/spa • Shuttle to 

•Tennis, 
V()lleyhall, & campus/city basketball. courts • More info:. 272.,1441 




Monday, October 13, 1997 The Observer • TODAY page 15 
MEN ABOUT CAMPUS DAN SULLIVAN 
YOUR HOROSCOPE 

Aries: Even with the right tools, the job might not get done today. Last night's dream intor­feros with your presrmce of mind. Ir you dislike making mistakes, it may be best to do as little as pos­sible. 
Taurus: You com<! up with a strange solution that strikes a deep chord among <woryone who und!lrstands it. Presentation counts today, no matter how good an idea. A pet project gots the green light. 
Gemini: Today you havo the sense that you won't gct what you want if you want it too badly. Approach a problem creatively and save your thP.atrical assault
se:g SUMO, YOU Thl<~ 114E POPCORN 

for another time. A busybody
IT 5~~5 \T OUT OF 11-{S M\CRCW~~~ 
could ruin your day if you let her. 
~IC::1HT HERE""' 

Cancer: If traveling today, take
BEFORE 56RVtN(:!, 


ACROSS 23 Dinner wear 46 Kind of delivery 
241mposes 48 Token without 50 Succeeded 

1 Comes to pass 
5 Sugar or starch, invitation
in slang 53 Like Cheerios 28--Z
9 Present time 54 "Yoo-hoo!" 
(everything)

13 Tracy Marrow, 55 Maternity
29 "You can't 

familiarly surprise 
mean me!?"

14 Apartment next 58 Birds Eye 
30 Word of the offeringto the super's, Prophet

maybe 60 Plaster base 32 Retreat
15 Sponge 61 Stores 35 Preceding
16 Bumble Bee, 62 A person might 
periods

e.g. earn one for a 37 W.W. II enlistee score
17 Whence the phrase "to give 39 Refrigerator 63 Christiania, the devil his bar? today due" 41 Many A.B.A. 64 Kind of dog 
19 Not moving members 65 Fire 21 Sawer of logs 43 His last work 66 Break down 22 Author with a 
was "Pocketful book subtitled of Miracles," "The Saga of an 1961 DOWN American 45 Get up and it's 
1 Has real Family" gone 

relevance 2 Slightly better 

Wanted: Reporters, 
than 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
3 Football 


the water routc to enhance the seamless flow of' your thoughts. Others lind you dP.ep and enthusi­astic, if a bit vague. You will be at your best before dawn or after dusk. 
Leo: If you don't get the respect you want, consider for a moment how much of it you dnserve. This is a day to spend limn rather than money in pur­suit of your goals. Heinforce your instincts with research. 
Virgo: ;\ ehange in your eating habits effects a unique mind-body relationship. Your critical analy­sis of a situation or process abruptly lands you in the driver's seat. Being able to tell fact from fiction is erucial today. 

Libra: A working relationship is strained by a disagreement over money. Negotiate business matters promptly before the dis­cord reaches a personal level. A methodical approach may be best today. 
Scorpio: People assume you arc a visionary today because of the prophetic ring to your state­ments. Mystery and philosophy play greater roles in the every day world. You enjoy your influ­ence over others. 
Sagittarius: You experiencfl a minor crisis of spirit when you misplace something important. Getting in touch with a dose rela­tive is a useful reality check. Try to do one small thing differontly every day. 
Capricorn: Even if you don't work in the design department, you may be the one whose cre­ative approach makes the differ­ence. Someone confirms your delightful suspicions. Take a chance on something about which you feel secure. 
Aquarius: An unexpected event puts you back in touch with your humanity. Be gentle but firm with others as you set your own house in order. Electronic com­munications play an important role in your day. 
Pisces: You are given a free hand to get things done in your own mysterious, non-linear way. Use confidential information to your best advantage. You turn the flow of events into a forward surge. 
coach's nightmare 20 Curly cue? 
4 Play maker 25 Utter failure, in sEnd piece slang 6 Betimes, 26 Davis of 
updated baseball 7Torn 27 Exerciser of aJuly 4th event, 
spin control? briefly 31 "Don't think so" 
9 Letter signoff 33 Uncomfortable 10 Sculptor Henry 34 Whistler 11 Didn't wait 36 Tight 
r=-t=+:-t:=-1 12 Former N.H.L. 38 Middle of a coach Fred famous 15 Advertising palindrome unit 40 Nonunion 18 Singles' grp.? workplace 

42 Churchill 52 Wild Asian dog 


photographers and 
Downs features 55 Bibliophile's44 Per purchase47 Submachine 56 Tevere's city gun 

editors.

57 Romantic 50 Winter wear 49 Jaundiced 
interlude 51 Four before a 59 Cousin of a slash tarboosh 

Join The Observer 
Answers to any three clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone: 

staff. 

1-900-420-5656 (75¢ per minute). Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Makin' 

Life Happy 


Government 
.... 
.... 
.. 

Football 
1997 

Notre Dame A step in the 45 right direction 
Pittsburgh 21 


• HOCKEY 

... 






SPORTS 
page 16 Monday, October 13, 1997 
Notre Dame dominates third period play 
By CHARLEY GATES 
Sports Writer 
In a game that eerily resem­bled so many of their losses last season, the Boys of Winter took a game knotted at one goal apiece and turned it into a 5-l win. 
"Those goals at the end were rewarding and significant because those are the goals that we didn't get last year," remarked benchminder Dave Poulin. 
The Irish suffered 12 one-goal losses last season. llad thPy won just half of those elosc games they would have mad<• 


Western Ontario 1 


Sophomore Tyson Frasier and the Irish defense allowed one goal. 
the elusivP Central CoiiPgiatl' Hockey Association playoiTs. For what11ver reason. tlwv had simply lost that finishing ·<:apa­bility, but tlw Boys round big time in tlw orrseason, nllu:h to 
. the chagrin or tiH1 WestPrn Ontario Mustangs. Tlw tiPd srorl' with :i: IX to play in tlw third lwliPd the cours<' or tiH• ganw. Tlw Irish had simply dominatPd thPir opponPnts and linislwd with an enormous fi!i-15 shot advantag<'. At tlw 14:42 mark. s<'nior rPntPr Lyle Andrusiak won a lert-rin·l<• f'aceoll' in tlw Mustangs' <'IHl. Freshman forward Mall Van Arkel corrallnd tlw purk and sent it into tlw IPI'l rorn<'r. \\'lwn• sophomor<' right wing Tro.v Bagnl' llirk<•d a pass towards tlw en~asP. An opportunistir Andrusiak. pati1•ntly waiting nnar th<' IPrt post likl' a lig<•r ror its pn~y. onP-tinwd a low shot 
into th1• nd ror what would prow to ill' till' gam<'winner. 
i\ndrusiak's goal initiated a l'lurry of goal scoring. Sophonwn• forward Brian Uriek JWltPd an <'lllpty-JwttPr with 58 SI1COIHis to play. Thirty-thre1~ sl'comls lall'r, Van ArkPI added a power-play goal. Ill' look a pass rro111 junior Aniket lllwdphal1• and slid tlw biscuit past i\lustang goall!·ndPr Mike llall for his lirst goal undnr the (;oid<•n llonw. Till' Irish weren't l'inisi11•d Y<'l: 14 SI'Conds iatnr, lh•slunal; <il·l'mHII'r Mark Eaton r<•rordPd tiH• l'irst goal of' his Notre• D<llll<' carenr. Sophomore dl'ri'IHI<•r lknoit Cotnoir passed tlw purk to l~alon, who buried lh1• Irish third goal in S8 sec­oiHls. 
"It was a gr<•at I'Pnling to scor!!," statl'd 1-:alon. "It was I'Xriting. and it's always good to gd Olll' und1•r your lwll. Let's llllpn that it's llw lirst ol' many." 
Dhadphall' gavn llw Boys their l'irst goal or tlw S<HLson, a rnbound oiT a snnior captain Sllw11 Nobll' shot. l>hadphale led tlw l<•arn in goals in his l're'sh­man yPar with I:~ but experi­l'llr<·d a bit ol' a sophomore slump last s1mson, scoring just rivn tinll's on IO'J shots. But 
sel' HOCKEY I page I 0 

..... 
-
• VOLLEYBALL 
Squad topples two in Big East· play 
By BILL HART 
Spotts Writer 
The Notre Dame volleyball team. continued its recent .success this weekend with two wins against Big East adversaries Boston College and Providence. The Irish ···started ·off their weekend in ;New EnglaJ1d with a four­game win over a relatively ·inexperienced Boston College squad, 15-4, 15-11, 13-15, 
'*15-2. 
'The Irish were led by 
sophomore blocker Mary 
Leffers, who totaled 18 kills 
cause was lwlpnd also by senior hitter .Jaimie Le(', who had 21 kills on .7()4 hitting. tho SI~COJHI·bi~St lrilting per­centage in Irish history for a four-game match . 
Boston Collegn was led by freshman .Julia El-Hag, who scored 16 kills. She was ajded by teammatns Eiluen Brodel'ick and Amy LaurPncn. who had 10 kills eaeh. The third game or the match was the first limn tlw Irish had lost a game in a conl'ornJH'<~ match since defeating Pittsburgh in t h n champ i-
see VOLLEYBALL I page ll 


Syracuse squeezes out a win 

By TOM STUDEBAKER and DAN LUZIETTI 
Ti11' Nl!tl'l' !Jam<· JJJI'n's soc­c<•r IP1llll sul'l'l!l'l'd its l'irst Big l·:ast loss Saturday night when it 1'1'11 to th<• Syracuse Orang!'llll'll by a sr.or;1 of' 1-0. Tlw lP!tlll 's ovPrall r<1eord drops to 7-4-2 and its wnfer­1'111'.1! rPcord (O 4-1-1. 
llow<WPI', tlw scorn was not a trlll' indiration or how tho ganll' was playnd. Nolrl' Dame dominatl'd play and ronlrolled till' l<•mpo for tlw majority of th1• gaJII<1. Tlwy outshot Syracust• l X-S and had an 11-0 advanlagl' in <:ortwr kicks. The Irish si1nply put the ball every­wlll•n• hut. till' back ol' thn net. 
see IRISH I page 12 
The Observer/Brandon Candura 

Sophomore Alan Woods could not withstand the Syracuse offense. 

vs. Sourhern Cal, ar Saint Cloud State, 
~~ a;
Ocroher IH. 2:30 fUll. 

.':" "": .. October 18, 7 p.m. 
•SMC cross country takes sixth 
ar \X'isconsin, 

at Central Collegiate, 
~ 
Ocroher 14.4 p.m. 

October 17, 4 p.m. see page 12 
vs. Western Michigan. 

Soccer vs. Defiance
sf'N •• ~ •Streiffer leads Irish to victory
Ocroher 14. 7:30p.m. 

October 14, 3 p.m. 
see pagel4 
vs. Norrh Carolina, 

Volleyball vs. Calvin
sf' ~ 

Ocrobcr 17. 8 p.m. October 14, 6:30 p.m.
~ 
~ 







