
Friday, January 17, 1997 • Vol. XXX No. 71 THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Though the weather outside is frightful... 

Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
College were expected to reopen 
today, after gusting winds and 
about one foot of snow closed 
the schools yesterday afternoon. 
University officials were set to discuss the weather and safety conditions at 5 a.m. this morning before deciding whether to reopen school, Dennis Moore, director of Notre Dame Public Relations, said last night. A ·decision to close the school would be announced on local television and radio stations 
around 5:30 a.m., Moore said. 
Saint Mary's officials said last 
night they expected the College 
to reopen today. Patti Valentine, 
director of public relations for 
the College, said the decision 

Despite snow, area businesses will reopen 
By BRAD PRENDERGAST News Editor 

Friday Feature 

NCAA drops employment ban 
By JOHN DeBOY 
News Writer 
Working through financial difficulties may now be easier for many college athletes, thanks to new NCAA legislation allowing students on athletic scholarship to hold paid jobs during the school year. 
Monday, during the NCAA convention in Nashville, Division I schools opted to drop their longstanding ban on part­time employment for student athletes by a close 169-150 vote. 
While the amount that ath­letes can earn during each aca­demic year will be limited to approximately $1,200 to $2,500, athletes will now be permitted to work during the playing season and throughout the school year. In the past, NCAA regulations stipulated that student athletes on full scholarship could work only 

during the summer and on approved breaks.­
The new NCAA legislation came after years of protest by athletes and others who were disturbed by the fact that Division I schools forbade their students to earn pocket change while simultaneously pulling in millions on athletic merchan­dise and television contracts. 
Many student athletes also felt that the ban on employ­ment during the school year imposed financial hardship on many athletes and deprived them of important job and life experiences. 
According to Bridget Niland, chair of the NCAA Student Athlete Advisory Committee, "We think it's important that student athletes learn to man­age their money and not look to anyone else to support them. Don't deny someone the oppor­tunity to earn money to fill their gas tank or buy a pizza." 
Melissa Conboy, an associate director of athletics at Notre Dame, Said she approves of both the legislation and the fact that Notre Dame voted in favor of it. 
"We were in favor of the con­cept of allowing student ath­letes to work during the school year," Conboy said. "Initially, we opposed a proposal that would only allow athletes to work during the off-season; once that proposal was dropped, we were more in favor of it." 
Others, including John MacLeod, head coach of the men's basketball team, plan to hold off judgment until after 
see NCAA I page 6 

Woo to head business department 
By MICHAEL LEWIS 
News Writer 
Carolyn Woo, the new dean of Notre D a m e ' College of Woo Business Administration, hopes to contin­ue improving the college in August when she succeeds Dean Jack Keane, whose eight year tenure saw the construction of a new business building, increased involvement of faculty and students, endowed chairs, and national acclaim for several functions of the institution. 
Woo is currently the associate executive vice president for Academic Affairs and professor of management at Purdue University. It took her months to make the decision to leave Purdue, but she is looking for­ward to coming to Notre Dame. 

"The fact that I would leave Purdue says a lot about Notre Dame," she said. "Purdue has been home for 25 years." 
"I was contacted in about April of 1996. Keane talked to me at a conference and he indi­cated that he would step down at the end of the '96-97 school year," Woo said. 
Keane nominated her for the position, but University Provost Nathan Hatch and a committee of five faculty members and one student were the individuals responsible for making the final recommendation to Notre Dame President Father Malloy. 
"A search is a complicated process," Hatch said. "We had over 50 candidates." 
"In the end, the committee had interviews with I think five individuals," he said. After the interviews, the selection com­mittee unanimously chose Woo. 
Hatch strongly supported the selection, saying, "By reputa­tion, we knew what an out­standing teacher and scholar she was." He also said, "She would make the best leader if we could convince her to come to Notre Dame." 
Although Purdue's MBA pro­gram has moved into the top 20 nationally, Hatch said the University was simply looking for the best person without tar­geting specific schools. 
Keane said, "We had tried to get her in a chaired professor's capacity five years ago," indi­
see 0 EAN I page 4 
\ 

was made by the president's the stores and movie theater at University Park office in consultation with cam­Mall. An employee at the Papa John's location pus security. near Notre Dame said the pizza business also was 
The University will make its planning to close early last night. decision after grounds personnel Both University Park Mall and Papa John's said assess the conditions around the they were expecting to maintain usual business campus and on city roads near­hours throughout the weekend despite the bad 
by, Moore said. That information weather. and a weather forecast report 
from a private weather service 
will be passed on to University officials, including Jim Lyphout, associate vice president for busi­ness operations, and University provost Nathan Hatch. 
If the University were to remain closed, only personnel essential to student life ­including the operators of the power plant, security officials and dining hall staff -would remain on campus, Moore said. 
"Our bias is always against closing," Moore said. "We're a residential campus. If we can get faculty and staff to campus, that's our preferred way of oper­ating." 
Many businesses in the cities of South Bend and Mishawaka were closed last night, including 
see WEATHER I page 6 



might be 'a little water dam-.. age' to our things," Slaydon said. "I spent Thursday and Friday preparing myself for the worst. But it was worse than I had ever imagined." 
When Slaydon entered his apartment, he saw destruc­tion. The drywall had lique­fied, dripping a two-inch-thick paste on the floor. The fiber­glass insulation had fallen from the ceiling, staining his clothes and towels. A foot of water stood throughout the apartment. 
All of Slaydon, Stein, Davis, and Dominello's clothing, fur­niture, and audio equipment were ruined, including high­end stereo equipment and over 100 compact discs. Stein and Davis' personal computers were also destroyed. 
Because the students are still covered under their parents' home owner's insurance, they will be compensated for all damages. 
"Right now we have gone out 
see DISASTER I page 4 
By CAROLINE BLUM 
Saint Mary's Editor 
Now they laugh about it, calling it the "Plaster Disaster" or "Catastrophic." But when seniors Dave Slaydon, Chris Stein, Byron Davis, and Chris Dominello entered their apart­ment at College Park Coadominiums last Friday, they were definitely not smil­ing. 

Slaydon knew only from a phone call he had received from Chris Fielding, director of College Park, that a water surge had occurred in the apartment above them, caus­ing "a little water damage." What he and his roommates did not know, however, was that the flood had caused their ceiling to dissolve, dripping drywall, sheet rock, and fiber­glass insulation over all of their possessions and leaving them only an outline of boards and wall frames to call their home. 
"We came back early on Friday, thinking that there 


page 2 The Observer • INSIDE Friday, January 17, 1997 

A question 
of our 
culture 

As nominations for the Academy Awards are announced, many people will doubtlessly not recall hearing the names of many 
movies being nominated. Such movies as Shine and Breaking the Waves were not widely released, and most of the people who have heard of them are art theatre junkies, members of the academy, or avid readers 


of entertainment news.  
Consequently,  the  Margee Husemann  
questions which must  Associate Viewpoint  
arise are these: What  Editor  
happens to all of the  

movies which do receive popular acclaim? Why are they not more represented in the awards? 
Popular success seems no longer vogue in Hollywood. It is a movement which seems to mimic the alternative image of "selling out." The movies which receive favorable reviews are often those which are not seen. Movies such as Independence Day or Twister filled theatres but barely received nods from the critics. 
In this way, popular culture is being sepa­rated from high culture. Commercial suc­cess is quickly becoming associated with a lack of taste or with an idea of low art. The common movie-goer is not being relied upon to determine what is and what is not worthy of praise. 
Period pieces and psychological dramas have become popular recently among the intellectuals. The dense plots of these movies can be tiresome to the weekend movie-goer. However, these same dense plots are what appeal to the critics. 
The question of culture and who deter­mines what is culture has long been an issue in society for over a century. Is an elitist educated class truly representative of the people? Should their tastes determine the culture of a nation? Or should anyone be allowed to pattern the cultural fabric of the nation? · 
All of these questions can play into the consideration of internationally recognized awards such as the Oscars. By nominating a particular picture or deciding upon a winner of a category, a statement is being made regarding the image of the nation. When movies which are not American win our awards, a somewhat tacit condemnation of our popular culture is being made. 
Perhaps you do not consider these awards as such a statement. However, the Academy Awards are televised internationally. Our recognition of certain films sets trends and portrays a sense of American culture. When was the last time you watched someone receive a BAFTA? 
Because much of the cinema business hinges on its popular appeal to pay back obnoxious production costs, many of the products are often considered low art. This year make a conscious decision to determine for yourself what deserves an award. Art iilms are shown at the Snite every week. Are these films great because they appeal to an intellect which is not popularly shared? Are high budget films being punished because of their wide spread appeal? It's up to you to decide for yourself. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
•  lODAV'S STAFF  
Production  
News  Michelle Krupa  
Sean Smith  Heather Cocks  
Michelle Krupa  Accent  
Sports  Ashleigh Thompson  
Joe Cavato  Viewpoint  
Lab Tech  Ethah Hayward  
MikeRuma  Graphics  

• WORLD AT A GLANCE 

Two bombs blast Atlanta abortion clinic 
ATLANTA 
Two bomb blasts an hour apart rocked a building con­taining an abortion clinic Thursday, injuring six people who had rushed to the scene of the first explosion, including federal agents, rescue workers and a TV cameraman. 
"The second explosion is clearly designed to maim and hurt those who were coming to assist," said Mayor Bill Campbell. 
"So we're dealing with a warped mind here." 
The explosions left the Atlanta Northside Family Planning Services clinic in ruins and blew out windows across the street. Police immediately tightened security at all other clinics in the city. 
President Clinton condemned the explosions as "a vile and malevolent act." 
"Make no mistake: Anyone 
Gingrich awaits vote on punishment 
WASHINGTON 
Special counsel James M. Cole labored to finish his report on Newt Gingrich's misconduct Thursday and clear the way for abbreviated public hearings and a vote to punish the speaker. Cole's report was going to the House ethics committee, but not yet to the public, after a week of diver­sions over the hearing schedule and an 

unauthorized recording of a Gingrich phone call. Televised hearings were not expected to begin before Friday afternoon, and could continue into the weekend. Gingrich was not expected to testify at the hearing and has not decided whether to address the House on the day his punishment is debated, said a Republican, who commented only on condition of anonymity. "We're going to do whatever we're asked to do and we are going to try to be helpful," Gingrich said when asked by reporters if he would appear at the hearing. The coun­sel has gathered information about Gingrich's use of tax­exempt activities to further political goals and about mis­leading statements given the committee under the speaker's name. 
Governor denies reprieve to rapist 
ANCHORAGE, Alaska 
Adam Ake is the kind of young man who makes his 
own luck, using hard work and brains to win a Rhodes 
scholarship and the top spot in this year's West Point 
class. None of that helped Ake persuade Gov. Tony 
Knowles to give his father, a convicted rapist, a weekend 
furlough to attend the cadet's graduation. Adam Ake, 
21, e-mailed Knowles on Wednesday, seeking the release 
of Kenneth Ake from Hiland Mountain Correctional 
Center. The former gynecologist began a 1 0-year sen­
tence in 1991 for raping five patients on his examining 
table. The governor's denial was immediate, said his 
spokesman, Bob King. "There was no hesitation on his 
mind. He had just announced a domestic violence initia­
tive the day before," King said. State law also forbids 
out-of-state furloughs, King said, and sex offenders must 
complete a treatment program to be eligible for a fur­
lough-and Kenneth Ake hasn't done that. 
• SOUTH BEND WEATHER • NATIONAL WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend 


The AccuWeather<~~>torecast for noon, Friday, Jan. 17. 
AccuWeather0 forecast 


Lines separate high temperature zones for the day. 
30s 
FRONTS: 
.............,. ..A...A.. ~ 

COLD WARM STATIONARY <Cl 1997 AccuWeather, Inc. Pressure 
H L 


HlGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY 
VIa Associated Pr•u 

,-------------------------------~ who brings violence against a 
Abortion clinic building explosion 
Apair ofbombs exploded at u buildiug housing Wl abortion clinic in At/all/a Thursday momi11g. The five­.\'tory struct11re: 
9.:30a.m. 
Blast occurs at Atlanta Northside Family Planning Services on the ground floor. 
!10!30a.m. ··Explosion erupts from atrash container near front of the building. 
*Times are approximate 
Source: AP research 

woman trying to exercise her constitutional rights is commit­ting an act of terror," he said. 
The first bomb went off at 
9:30 a.m. at the clinic on the ground floor of a five-story 
' office building that also houses lawyers, dentists and other pro­fessionals. The second bomb went off in a trash bin in the parking Jot. A crowd of investigators, police, journalists and bystanders who had gathered outside after the first explosion heard a loud boom and felt the concussion. They could see a bright flash and debris flying in the air. "It was scary as hell," said clinic counselor Geralyn Thompson, who arrived just after the first blast. 
"I probably will never work at an abortion clinic again in Atlanta." 
Brain implant may ward off disease 
MIAMI 

Kenneth Sibley let surgeons drill a pinhole in his skull and insert a tiny flexible tube deep in his brain in hopes it will buy him a few more years of life. It is the first time doctors have used an implanted catheter to regu­larly administer medicine they hope will slow Lou Gehrig's disease, an incurable neurological disorder that slowly destroys the body. Sibley, a 39-year-old commer­cial real estate agent who doctors say has only three years to live, said he is willing to be a human guinea pig despite the risk that the treatment itself could cause bleeding that could kill him. "A surgical implant of a device into my brain is a scary proposition, to say the least, but I am determined to fight this disease as aggressively as possible for the sake of my family," Sibley said, using a tiny keyboard to communicate. The Birmingham, Ala., man, who is married with three chil­dren, received the implant on Dec. 4 and was in Miami this week for his second treatment when doctors at the University of Miami announced the experiment. Surgeons there inserted the catheter through the front of Sibley's skull just under his scalp, across the top of the brain and then 3 inches down into the frontal lobe. 
Teacher kills woman. husband 
HOMESTEAD, Fla. 

A computer teacher who had a crush on a woman he was tutoring learned she was married and shot her and her husband to death as her horrified parents watched. He then killed himself. Nathaniel Mellerson, a 29-year­old teacher at Miami Dade Community College, shot Cathy Essery, 36, at her parents' home late Tuesday as she leaned over the body of her husband, 35-year-old Geoffry Essery. He had been shot after a scuffle with Mellerson, whom the parents had let into the home. Metro-Dade police say Mellerson taught Cathy Essery privately until she asked him to stop coming to the house because he had become a "problem person." But Patricia Mellerson said her son quietly dated the woman for several months until he learned two months ago that she was married and living at her parents' home with her husband. "It's sad for all parties," Mrs. Mellerson said. 
Anchorage 30 24 Green Bay 13 -8 New York 24 13 Atlanta 42 16 Honolulu 80 64 Phoenix 70 46 Baltimore 25 10 Kennebunk 20 6 St. Louis 19 3 Boston 23 10 Miami 66 49 San Francisco 58 46 Chicago 15 -3 Milwaukee 16 -3 Seattle 50 41 
Jon King 

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday rhrough Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
page 3

Friday, January 17, 1997 The Observer • NEWS 
Sheehan to direct NCEA Defense department 
Special to The Observer 
Sister Lourdes Sheehan, director of the University of Notre Dame's Alliance for Catholic Education (ACE), will become executive director of the Department of Chief Administrators of Catholic Education for the National Catholic Educational Association (NCEA) effective Aug. 1, 1997. 
Sheehan, director of ACE since 1995, formerly was secre­tary for education for the United States Catholic Conference. She will continue to serve as a member of the ACE executive committee and a counselor for the ACE staff. 
"Sister Lourdes has played a pivotal role in the rapid growth of ACE since she joined the pro­gram in just its second year," Father Timothy Scully, Notre Dame vice president a11d senior associate provost, said. "Her return to NCEA will give her a new forum from which to pur­sue our common goal of fur­thering Catholic education." 
"We are especially pleased that ACE will remain a benefi­ciary of her talents, in her new position and in her continuing association with ACE as a con­tinuing member of our execu­tive committee." 
"One of my goals is to foster NCEA's ongoing support for ACE, which provides avenues for young teachers to commit talent and energy to serving in Catholic schools where they are most needed," Sheehan said. 
ACE, the brainchild of Scully, was founded in 1994 to provide committed Catholic teachers for understaffed parochial schools and to provide recent college graduates with intensive teacher training and opportuni­ties for Christian community and personal growth. 
The program currently is pro­viding teachers to over 70 schools in 20 dioceses through­out the south and southeastern United States. 


If you see news happening., call The Observer at l-5323. 

police shoot thieves 
By SUSANNE SCHAFER 
Associated Press Wrirer 

WASHINGTON 
Seven Pentagon police offi­cers fired "about 20 shots" at two teenagers suspected of trying to steal a minivan from a Pentagon parking lot, the Defense Department said Thursday. 
"The officers believed there was reason to be threatened," said spokesman Kenneth Bacon, explaining why the officers fired at the youths who later were found to be unarmed. 
One suspect was wounded in the head, the other in the abdomen. 
Both 15 years old, the boys were listed in critical but sta­ble condition Thursday at Georgetown University Hospital. 
Bacon would not say why the officers believed they were threatened. 
A Pentagon spokesman said Wednesday the police believed they heard a gunshot after the van stopped, and published reports said officers saw a threatening gesture from the two individuals remaining in the vehicle. 
The shooting occurred after 
a high-speed chase 
Wednesday that ended about 
a mile from the Pentagon. 

Two other youths fled the 
van but were captured, and 
police stopped a second van 
further down the road and 
caught a fifth suspect. 

Five young men drove into the Pentagon's north parking lot in a stolen minivan, police said. 
One got into a minivan parked in the lot and fled, fol­lowed by his companions. 
A Pentagon employee saw them and notified Defense Protection Service officers at a firing range near the lot. Bacon said. 
The officers alerted their headquarters and gave chase in their police cars. 
All seven officers who fired their weapons were moved from patrol to administrative duty pending results of three separate investigations, Bacon said. 
The DPS has only 222 offi­cers, and two of its four inves­tigators were involved in the incident, Bacon said. 
In all, 16 uniformed DPS officers were involved in the mid-morning high-speed chase and shooting. the spokesman said. 
Pentagon police patrol and 

monitor lots where 11,000 
cars park every day and 
dozens are stolen every year. 
Twenty-two cars were stolen 

last year. down from 54 in 
1994, Bacon said. "We take 
car theft seriously," he said. 
Bacon said the three sus­

pects who were not wounded 
were arraigned in Arlington 
County Court on larceny and 
conspiracy charges. 
The identities of all five teenagers were withheld .because they are minors. 


Leave the driving to us. 

Coming soon from Student Government 
UNIVEilSITY OF NOTilE DAM£ STUOfNT C:OVf.NI.UNT 

page 4 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS Friday, January 17,1997 
Disaster 
continued from page 1 
and bought the essentials," Slaydon sa,id. "Such as towels, beds, sheets, and pillows. But I will not buy the rest of the stuff until I receive my reim­bursement check." 
College Park has relocated the students to an open apart­ment in a different building in order to repair their apart­ment for next year. However, Slaydon admits that the situa­tion could have been handled better. 
"College Park was not too cooperative about what hap­pened," he said. "I wish they would have moved quicker. They found out about this situ­ation last Monday, and yet did nothing until this week. It would have been nice to have the heat going in our new apartment with utilities and phone hookup ready. But now they have been helpful." 
Dean 
continued from page 1 
eating past interest in Woo on the part of the Business School. 
Keane said he will take a one year sabbatical starting in August of 1997, using the time to do some writing and publish­ing. His reasons for leaving the position include having a sim­pler schedule, and devoting more time to both teaching and working as a member of the board of directors. 
"There comes a time to pass the torch and this is as good a time as any," he said. Under Keane, the college has seen a great deal of improvement. 
There has been increased 
0 
0 
0 
0 
According to Fielding, when the damage was realized, plumbers were immediately called. They noted that due to sub-zero temperatures during the past weeks, many plumb­ing problems have occurred in the area. 
Stein's car had also been damaged over break. Although no forced entry to his car was evident, his stereo, speakers, compact discs, and stereo faceplate were all stolen. Stein believes he left his faceplate inside his apart­ment when he left for break. 
"I knew I was coming back to an apartment that was dam­aged," Stein said. "But I wasn't expecting the theft in my car. It was a severe blow. And when I noticed my face plate from inside my apart­ment was gone, I lost all sense of security. It's tough to feel safe in a place when you know someone has bee,n looking through your things. I do not know who has keys to my apartment these days." 
international exposure, the first bona fide strategic planning effort, improvement of the fac­ulty, successful selling of the MBA improvement plan, expan­sion of executive programs, the distance learning success, and the building of the college's $26 million, 153,000 square-foot complex,~among other things. 
"The increase in women fac­ulty members occurred during this period," he said. The num­ber of endowed chairs also increased from five to 10, with Keane negotiating all but three. 
Reflecting back upon his time as dean, Keane said, "It's a rare honor to come back as dean in the school that graduated you. I'm a fortunate fellow, and I'm not done." 
"All the current associate 

Wk1j did-tt't :C Sl~'tt Co""""~11i ties ND l£\st 
"We're going to compensate Chris in every way possible for the theft of his thhgs. Due to thefts over extended breaks in the past, this winter we really tried to increase security by checking deadbolts, but of course did not enter apart­ments, so we did not immedi­ately find the plumbing prob­lem," Fielding said. "It seems that while trying to take care of one problem another one arose." 
Davis also was victim to thnl't of over 40 compact discs from his apartment over break, as was neighboring senior Kassio Shea. 
Other residents living in building 18063, seniors Hob Murray, Anthony Dragone, Mike Hartmann, J.P. Fenningham, Carolyn Deppisch, Mandy Brown, Jon Shurtz, Dudley Philips, Erin O'Connor, and Shea all received the same calls as Slaydon last week describing "a little water damage" in their apartments. And they too, 
deans, assistant deans, and department heads are my appointments, and they've all done a superior job," he said. ''I'm proud of them and grateful to them." 
After he returns from his sab­batical, he will teach, rounding out a career that has ineluded two government jobs and seven jobs in the private sector. 
Woo said that she was impressed with Notre Dame's focus on ethics in management. She has been an assistant pro­fessor since 1981, and the pro­fessor of management since 1991 at Purdue. 
"The business school has tremendous potential. It has a great chance to be one of the top-tier business schools," Woo said. 
. 

returned to their apartments last Friday to find greater damage then they expected. 
"Everything was soaked in our apartment," Murray said. "Our clothes, our carpet, our beds ... the floors and the hard floors were ripped up as well. The worst part is that there was no running water." 
"It was musty, it was moldy, and tkere was a large hole in the middle of my ceiling," Deppisch said. 
Deppisch and her roommates were forced to move to anoth­er apartment this week despite the cold temperatures. 
But Murray, Dragone, Hartmann, and Fenningham will stay in their apartment for the semester, after College Park has repaired their water pipes and floors. For the pre­sent time, the four are all residing at different locations. 
"We have been forced to fend for ourselves," Murray said. "We were tossed in the cold and had to find places to stay. We all had to split up, so that 
~p .Por se~ster? 

we did not impose on anyone. Now I have to go to Club 23 to see my roommates." 
It may be another week or two before Murray and his roommates move baek into College Park. Even then, they will have to eope with changes in their routine. 
"There will be on-going eon­struetion in the apartment below us throughout the rest of the year," Murray said. "That's going to cause a lot of noi~.e and will not be pleas­ant. 
Please recycle The Observer. 
Happy 19th Birthday Nicole ... 
•••!GLE;Jil @ll 
~milinq-1 

a) 
my sign-up form is still buried under six drafts of last semester's final project 

b) 
I made a New Year's resolution to do son1ething good for myself 


WHETHER YOU CHOSE A), B), OR "NONE OF THE ABOVE," YOU STILL HAVE TIME TO SIGN UP FOR COMMUNITIES ND 
sign up by Friday, January 17 Bad1n Hall or 103 Hesburgh Library office of Campus Ministry 

RALLY DAY to begin Communities ND: Saturday, Jan. 18 I 11 am -4 pm I LaFortune Ballroom. 



0 

9 
0 
.. 0 
a) 
small Christian communities at Notre Dame, open to ALL undergraduates 

b) 
co-ed, student-led groups of 8-10 undergrads which meet every other week 

c) 
a chance to share prayer and conversation and to learn about your faith 

d) 
all of the above 



.. 
Did you guess d)? It's the best answer. No partial credit. A Arry que5tions? Call Darrell Paul5en or Kate Barrett at 631-5242 C0 m~tieS n
(?MPUS 
MINISTRY 


r---------~--~-------~~-­
Friday, January 17, 1997 
The Observer • NATIONAL NEWS page 5 
Syringe covers protect from AIDS Cosby's son killed 
The Associated Press 
ATLANTA 

Needles with safety sheaths or blunt tips may be health care workers' best defense against the AIDS virus and other dis­eases, two government studies found. 
One study, conducted by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention at six hospitals in Minneapolis, New York and San Francisco between 1993 and 1995, found that workers 
reduced their risk of being ones. pricked by up to 76 percent by A standard hypodermic nee­
using hypodermic needles with -die costs about 8 cents, com-plastic sheaths or small metal pared with about 25 cents for a tubes that pop over the tip as needle with a safety sheath, the needle is withdrawn from according to Christina the skin. Tamburro of Bio-Plexus Inc., a 
A second CDC study, done in manufacturer of sheathed nee­1993-94 at three hospitals in dies. New York City, compared con-The sheathed needles and the ventional, sharp suturing nee-blunt suturing needles "can dies with blunt-edged ones. It reduce needle stick injuries, found 56 injuries caused by the which are a common risk for conventional suturing needles, health care workers," Dr. Elise and no injuries from the blunt Jochimsen, an epidemiologist. 

The Observer 
is accepting applications for: 
1997-1998 Editor-in-Chief 

Any undergraduate or graduate student at the University of Notre Dame or Saint Mary's College is encouraged to apply. The editor-in-chief is entirely responsible for the operation of The Observer. Applicants should have a strong interest in journalism and pos­sess solid management, public relations, and communications skills. Previous newspaper experience or a background in writing and editing, while helpful, are not required. 
Applicants should submit a resume andfive-page statement to Liz Foran by 5:00p.m., Friday, january 24, 1996 For additional informatio.n about the position or application process, contact Liz Foran at 631-4542, or stop by the office on the third floor ofLaFortune. 
Weekly groups are available on: 
MONDAYS, 
3:00-4:15 
TUESDAYS, 
2:00-3:15 
WEDNESDAYS. 
1:00-2:15 
THURSDAYS, 
3:50-4:45 
Call UCC for more Information! 631-7336 
Personal Growth Group 
graduates earn 20°o more per 
year after graduntion. 
9. After spending anot11er Christmas at home. Roseanne's fnmily lool<s healthy. 
8. Someone told you that these <He supposed to be the best years. of your life and you believed them. 
7. Your love life is beginning to resemble Doug Ross's on ER. 
6. Rush Limbaugh and Howard Stern have better conversations tl1an you and your roommates. 
5. Stnr Trek's 1\tlr. Datil is more cilpable of emotional intimacy than you. 
4. BAYWATCH has become your guide to romance. 
3. Your best friend is Bud Light. 
2. You are more anxious about calling home than ET. 
and the number 1 reason is... 
1. More exciting. meuningful rn.lationshr:;·; in South Bend simply ciln t be found' 

h.I hang. n g t.re
w I e c I I 
By JANE ALLEN 
Associated Press Writer 
LOS ANGELES 
Bill Cosby's only son was shot to death e a r I y Thursday in a possible rob­bery attempt while chang­ing a flat tire 


Bill Cosby 
on his Mercedes convertible along a freeway, police said. 
The body of Ennis William Cosby, 27, was found about 
1:45 a.m. in a pool of blood next to the car by a woman passer-by.. No immediate arrests were made. 
The Columbia University graduate student was the son of the one of the world's richest entertainers, a man for whom fatherhood was the wellspring of his standup comedy, a best­selling book and the most pop­ular TV series of the '80s. 
Before ducking into his home in New York City, the 59-year­old Cosby, looking grim and puffy-eyed, told reporters: "He was my hero." 
The younger Cosby's car was in a well-to-do area near the crest of the Santa Monica Mountains not far from the exclusive Bel-Air section of Los Angeles. 


Police Cmdr. Tim McBride said: "It is unknown whether he was followed at this time or not. I think that's a good proba­bility. But it may have been a chance opportunity that some­body took, robbery being a pos­sible motive." 
However, nothing apparently was taken, he said. 
The star of CBS' "Cosby" was in New York, where the show is produced, when McBride broke the news. The police comman­der said he and Cosby spoke for about 20 minutes on the diffi­culty of coping with the death of a child. McBride lost a daughter in a hit-and-run. 
Cosby and his wife, Camille, are also the parents of four girls. 
"We have every confidence in the LAPD. Our hearts go out to each and every family that such an incident occurs to. This is a life experience that is truly dif­ficult to share," Cosby said in a statement. 
Malcolm-Jamal Warner, who played Cosby's son Thea Huxtable on "The Cosby Show" on NBC, said: "He was my friend and I loved him." 
'"EMMA' Is ThE CLAss AcT OF 1996. 

FRIDAY AND SATURDAY, JANUARY 17 AND 18 
7:30 and 9:45 p.m. 
Next Weekend: Notre Dame's 8th annual Student Film Festival 
http://www.nd.edu(-cothweb/wwwsnite.html 
page 6 The Observer • NEWS Friday, January 17, 1997 
lanes were closed Thursday we Gould lose students who things can get complicated and 
afternoon from South Bend to encounter academic difficulties can be difficult to monitor."
Weather NCAA 

continued from page 1 
Various local taverns including Corby's, Bridget's, the Linebacker and CJ's Pub ­remained open last night and expected to remain open throughout the weekend. 
"It'll depend on the weather and the size of the crowd," one employee at CJ's said over the noise of the patrons last night. "If the weather scares the peo­ple away, then we'll close early this weekend." 
Phone calls to Coach's and Club 23 were not answered last night. 
As the snow tapered off Thursday evening, tempera­tures were dropping into the single digits throughout Indiana and wind gusts of up to 35 mph made it feel like 20 to 30 below, The Associated Press reported. 
The northern third of Indiana was under a winter weather advisory, while a wind chill advisory was issued for the central and southern parts of the state. 
"The cold, I think we're going to be stuck with that through the weekend. Sunday is going to be when the heat wave starts," said Mike Jensen, a meteorological tech­nician at the National Weather Service office in South Bend. 
After bitter cold on Friday and Saturday, temperatures Sunday are expected to reach the lower 20s in northern Indiana. 
That means Hoosiers might have to wait a few days to clear away the snow that was dumped on them Wednesday and Thursday. Northern Indiana got the worst of it, with 10 inches falling in South Bend in less than 24 hours, Jensen said. 
Roads were a mess of snow, ice and slush, and blowing snow didn't make traveling any easier. Nearly 30 miles of the Indiana Toll Road's westbound LaPorte because so many semi­trucks had slid off the road. 
"We had them going off three and four at a time," Sue Brioli, a radio operator at the Indiana State Police's Toll Road post. The lanes were still closed at 4:30p.m. 
The U.S. 20 bypass south of South Bend also closed because of numerous acci­dents, but it was open by late afternoon, said Officer William Weber of the St. Joseph County police. 
"Basically the bypass is open, but it's snow-covered, slick and hazardous," he said. "We're advising people to stay off of 
it... At the Michiana Regional Transportation Center in South Bend, several flights were can­celed because of poor visibility or bad weather elsewhere, said John Schalliol, airport director. "We won't approach a regu­lar schedule until [Friday] morning," he said. At truck stops across Interstate 80-90, truckers spent Thursday morning wait­ing for a break in the weather before venturing out again. "They hang out in their trucks, hang out in here, eat lunch, drink coffee," said Mona Duncan, a worker at the Amoco Food Shop on U.S. 20 in Bristol. "It's starting to clear up, so everybody's leaving before it starts all over again." While Hoosiers might be a little sick of the snow and cold, this is nothing new, said Dave Tucek, a meteorologist at the National Weather Service in Indianapolis. Relatively mild winters the past few years have spoiled people, he said. "This is not uncommon to have a couple of Arctic out­breaks occur. That's pretty typical for an Indiana winter," he said. "This may be a return 
to  what's  normal  around  
here."  
Nancy  Armour  of  The  

Associated Press contributed to this report. 



continued from page 1 
they have been able to deter­mine whether or not the new policy can be carried out effec­tively. 
"It's too early to tell right now if that move (the NCAA legisla­tion) is a good one," MacLeod said. "There are many ques­tions that will have to be answered." 
Conboy admits that the new legislation is not without its potential drawbacks. 
"One of the concerns is that while trying to work and attend school at the same time," Conboy said. 

Conboy also indicated that, in the opinion of Notre Dame offi­cials, the proposal involves an unnecessarily large amount of legislation. 
"Overall, we were in favor of a little less legislation," Conboy said. "For example, student ath­letes and their employers will be required to sign affidavits stating that the student will not receive a higher wage than other equally qualified people in the same job. Those sorts of 
In addition to the new part­time job legislation, Division I schools also voted to allow ath­letes who are forced to sit out their freshman year because of academic deficiencies to gain back a fourth year of eligibility on the condition that they have graduated on time. 
Division I schools r-ejected a proposal to allow for a 14th scholarship in Division I men's basketball. In 1991, men's bas­ketball scholarships were reduced from 15 to 13. 
The Chicago Tribune con­tributed to this report. 




GM to no longer work in defense 
By BRIAN AKRE  Chrysler Corp. sold off  Three have been shedding any  
Associated Press Writer  the last piece of its aerospace  businesses that are not directly  
and defense businesses,  useful in the auto business or  
DETROIT  Pentastar Electronics Inc., in  do not provide big profits.  
General Motors Corp.'s sale of  November. Chrysler also sold  And while the defense  
its defense business to  its Electrospace Systems Inc.  business has yielded some tech­ 
Raytheon Co. completes the Big  and Chrysler Technologies  nology applicable to cars - 
Three aut.omakers' exit from an  Airborne Systems Inc. units in  such as a display on the wind­ 
industry that no longer promis­ June to a subsidiary of  shield that allows drivers to  
es easy profits.  Haytheon for $475 million. The  check their speed without tak­ 
GM will sell the Hughes  No. 3 automaker sold  ing their eyes off the road - 
Aircraft defense unit of its  Gulfstream Aerospace Corp. in  automakers no longer feel they  
Hughes Electronics Corp. sub­ 1990.  have to own a defense business  
sidiary to Raytheon Co. in·a  Ford Motor Co. has been out  to reap the benefits of the tech­ 
deal worth $9.5 billion, the  of the defense business since  nology.  
companies said Thursday.  1990, when it sold Ford  GM selected Raytheon, a  
The move is part of the trend  Aerospace Corp. to Lora! Corp.  Massachusetts maker of mis­ 
among the Big Three to return  The sale of Hughes Aircraft  siles and defense electronics,  
to their core business: making  ends GM's 12-year-old fling  over B-2 bomber and electron­ 
and selling cars and trucks.  with weapons contracting. In  ics specialist Northrop  
"It's a different world. The  1985, it bought Hughes  Grumman Corp. in the bidding  
defense business is no longer  Aircraft, as the parent company  for Hughes Aircraft.Raytheon  
the growth business they envi­ was then called, for $5.2 bil­ will now have $21 billion in  
sioned before the end of the  lion, with talk of using Cold  sales, $13 billion of it from  
Cold War," said Scott F. Merlis  War technology to produce cars  defense electronics.  
of Merlis Automotive  with radar-driven controls and  Much of its business will be  
International Inc., a consulting  fighter-jet instrument displays.  supplying components to the  
firm.  But llughes' big success in  two giants created by a blizzard  
The post-Cold War consolida­ defense conversion has been in  of defense mergers: Lockheed  
tion of the defense industry in  the boomfng commercial satel­ Martin Corp. and Boeing Co.,  
the '90s has made it a good  lite field, including cellular  which announced last month it  
time to get out.  communications and the  would buy McDonnell Douglas  
As the big players have  DirecTV broadcast service,  Corp. for $13.3 billion.  
attempted to gain a bigger  which will go forward as  Raytheon is paying for the  
share of a shrinking market,  Hughes Electronics.As the auto  deal by issuing $5.1 billion in  
they've been shopping furiously  industry has become more  stock and adding $4.4 billion in  
of late.  competitive globally, the Big  debt.  



CAMPUS BIBLE STUDY Enroll now in CBS102 
Sessions Will Resume Weekly meetings start Tuesday, January 21 at 7:00p.m. sharp Campus Ministry Conference Room in Badin Hall. 
All students welcome Meetings last for one hour Read Gospel of Matthew, Chapter 22 Topic: The Greatest Commandment 
Join in the Fellowship after the Bible Study 
Fr. AI D'Alonzo, CSC-Director 
Bring your own Bible or one wiff 6e provided. 
0Jy1PUSKI\INI5TRY 

Friday, January 17, 1997 The Observer • INTERNATIONAL NEWS page 7 
• ITALY • WEST BANK 
Italian court acquits Israeli troops to leave Palestine 
two in boy's murder 
By DANIEL WAKJN 
Associated Press Writer 
ROME 

Nicholas Green, 7 years old, lay sleeping in the back seat as his parents drove their rented Fiat along a lonely Italian road. 
Suddenly, in a crime that shocked Italy, masked assailants overtook the California family, tried to run them off the road and opened fire with a volley of shots. 
Nicholas was shot in the head, fell into a coma and was declared brain-dead. 
His parents donated his organs in an act that saved seven other lives, inspired a surge of organ donations in a country where such gestures were rare -and turned Nicholas' family into a symbol of generosity. 
On Thursday, a court in southern Italy acquitted two men in the Sept. 29, 1994, shooting, a killing that prompt­ed a wave of soul-searching over violence in Italian society. 
Two judges and six civilian jurors in Catanzaro, a city on the toe of the Italian boot, delivered the verdict without explanation. 
The court has 90 days to issue a written opinion. 
The verdict, capping an 11­month trial, came after five hours of deliberation. Prosecutors said they would appeal the acquittals, as is allowed under Italian law. 
The Green family of Bodega Bay, Calif., was traveling on a remote stretch of highway in the Calabria region when the crime happened. 
Nicholas' parents and younger sister were uninjured. 
Prosecutors said the assailants mistook the Fiat for a robbery target, and their case mainly rested on circumstantial evidence. 
Francesco Mesiano, 23, and Michele Iannello, 28, were cleared of murder, attempted murder and armed robbery. 
"We respect the verdict," prosecutor Maurizio Salustro said grimly, adding that he would wait for the court's opin­ion before commenting. 
In the courtroom after the verdict, the boy's father, Reginald Green, shook Mesiano's hand and embraced the defendant's weeping moth­er. 
"Tears were in my eyes," Green said later by telephone. He added that he did not want to express bitterness toward the defendants. 
INMEMORYOF 
LUCY BLANDFORD PILKINTON A.B., M.A., PH.D. 27 FEB 1943-19 JAN 1994 
By DIANNA CAHN 
Associated Press Writer 
HEBRON, West Bank 
Emptying sandbags, cutting down barbed wire and loading trucks with furniture, Israeli troops dismantled their head­quarters on Thursday to leave Hebron. As the army packed, hundreds of Palestinians sang and danced. 
Israel's parliament approved the withdrawal by an 87-17 vote late Thursday, after an ail-day debate in which Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu faced attack from members of his own Likud Party. They felt betrayed by his acquiescence to a peace process he long opposed. 
The withdrawal -worked out in months of tortuous nego­tiations between Israel and the Palestinians -is the first tan­gible act by Netanyahu's gov­ernment toward making peace with the Palestinians. 
In Hebron, evidence was everywhere that 30 years of military rule was beginning to end. A small group of uni­formed Palestinian police walked armed through the city's streets for the first time. An Israeli army outpost low­ered the blue-and-white Israeli flag. 
Netanyahu said the Hebron redeployment should be com­pleted before the Jewish Sabbath begins Friday night. "We will not permit desecra­tion of the Sabbath," he said. 'If there is a problem, we will stop." 
Besides the Hebron with­drawal, the agreement calls for Israel to hand over a large part of the West Bank countryside to the Palestinians by mid­1998. 
The three-stage withdrawal 
~N Esp.d 

~ ~"1)­


,W 
domingo 19, de enero 
1:30 p.m. Stanford-Keenan Chapel 
Celebrante Padre David Scheidler, esc 
Todos Estan Invitados 
(Z\MPUS MINISTRY 
from the rural areas is to begin the first week of March. 
Netanyahu emphasized Thursday that Israeli troops will remain in the parts of Hebron where 500 Jewish set­tlers live. 
"We are not leaving Hebron, we are redeploying in part of it," he said. "We are remaining in all the parts of the city where the Jewish community existed and exists and will con­tinue to exist. ... There will not be Palestinian police with guns near the Jewish areas." 
Outside the Israeli military headquarters -soon to be the main Palestinian police station -Palestinians waved kef­fiyehs, or head scarves, and sang "Biladi, Biladi" -"My Country, My Country." 
The crowd cheered and flashed victory signs every time an Israeli truck pulled away, and some tried to tear down the barbed-wire fence sur­rounding the compound. Palestinian and Israeli officials worked together to control the crowd. 

"We welcome Arafat," said 12-year-old Samer Karama, who was holding a picture of Arafat and Jerusalem's Dome of the Rock mosque. "God bless him. His coming is an end of the occupation." 
Palestinian police comman­der Brig. Gen. Abdul Fatah Guyadi appealed to Palestinians not to fire in the air to celebrate for fear of set­ting off violence in the tense city. "We cannot make any mis­takes," he said. 
"Hebron won't tolerate any mistakes -from our side or theirs -because it will be the end of the deal." 
Both sides wanted the rede­ployment carried out quickly to give militants -Palestinian or Israeli -less opportunity to try to disrupt the handover. 

The Israeli army moved rein­forcements into the section of Hebron that will stay under Israel's control. Between 15,000 to 20,000 Palestinians also live there. 
"For the settlers, it is not an easy day and they have many apprehensions," said Maj. Gen. Uzi Dayan, head of Israel's cen­tral army command. "Potential threats remain. We are taking as little risk as possible." 
About 100 settlers, mostlv children, marched along one city street, waving flags and chanting prayers. 
Ibrahim Ghosheh, spokesman for the militant Hamas, said the 20,000 Palestinians in the Israeli-controlled area were "at the mercy of settlers and the Israeli army," and pledged "continued resistance against the Zionist occupa­tion." 
In parliament, lawmakers from the prime minister's own Likud Party attacked Netanyahu for acquiescing to the land-for-peace formula he denounced for so many years. 
"We have no say in any­thing," charged Likud legisla­tor Reuven Rivlin. "What will we do if the Palestinians declare a state? How can we even stop them?" 
Foreign Minister David Levy, who has often clashed with Netanyahu in the past, strongly defended him Thursday. 
"What is the alternative?" Levy shouted at the hecklers. "There is no alternative. The only alternative you can give is stalemate." 
Netanyahu called the agree­ment "better, safer and more responsible" than the one signed by his dovish predeces­sors. 
ToP SER.LO:nv £i"rE.&K .,._ JE:o.G.s 55-49 
:N'E'W' To:a:&: STR.DP S'TEA.K .,._ :E::G-Gs S7.49 
Choose a 7 oz. top ~ sirloin or a 9 oz. New York Strip. Both are tender USDA choice cuts charbroiled ~to your liking and served with three @ buttermilk pancakes, two fresh eggs ~ and crispy hashed brown potatoes. It's the meal ~ that vvon the west 
Per1<1ns.Brea>fast,D1nner and E~1ng In Between'" 
• Available for a 11m1ted t1me only at part1C1pat1ng restaurants Cl1995 Perkins Restaurants 
page 8 The Observer· NATIONAL NEWS Friday, January 17, 1997 
Washington cleans up road for inauguration 

By HARRY ROSENTHAL Associated Press Writer 
WASHINGTON 

When John F. Kennedy was returning to the White House from his inauguration, in 1961, he was struck by the drabness of Pennsylvania Avenue. The avenue of presi­dents was an affront to the eye. 
Kennedy's secretary of labor, Arthur Goldberg, also noted the disparity between "the grandeur of the occa­sion and the shoddy street." 
Together they set in motion the second major transforma­tion of Pennsylvania Avenue into the grand boulevard that has continued to this day. Jacqueline Kennedy, too, was a passionate advocate for saving the old and making the new beautiful. 
The change should be apparent to television view­ers as they watch the inau­gural parade Monday. 
Historic buildings, such as the Old Post Office, have been spruced up. 
Since the last inauguration, a Navy Memorial has been completed and a spectacular new private-federal building, named for Ronald Reagan, is nearly done. 
The Pennsylvania Avenue 
of today is a mix of the old and new: Part of it reflects the big government that took root in the New Deal and World War II years of Franklin D. Roosevelt; the huge Commerce Department and Justice Department buildings, the Internal Revenue Service and Federal Trade Commission edifices. And from a later time, the equally substantial FBI build­ing, planned by J. Edgar Hoover. 
Restaurants have reap­peared, and they are not the Barney's Sandwich Shop variety, but white tablecloth and fancy. 
Preparing for the inaugural parade, the huge concrete flowerpots, which divert vehi­cle traffic from the White House for security reasons, have been taken away. 
The Clintons and their guests will review the parade from a heated, bulletproof 
stand  erected  over  the  
avenue's south sidewalk.  
People  now  live  on  the  

avenue, too, as they did in 1805 when Thomas Jefferson became the first president to ride the mile from the Capitol to the White House along Pennsylvania Avenue. That trip established the route and the tradition. 
The Observer 
is accepting applications for: 
Bi-weekly Columnists 
Ifinterested, please contact Ethan Hayward, Viewpoint Editor at 631-4541. 

All students, faculty and staffare welcome to apply. 
fancy yourself a 
•
es1gne 



come do some ad design for us at 
The Observer 
We need freshmen, sophomores, and juniors to help design our ads. Some knowledge of Macintosh Desktop Publishing is preferred; experience with Photoshop and Illustrator is a big bonus. 
call Jed at 634 1167 to apply. 

LAST CALL! 
APPLICATIONS DUE JANUARY 22 AT THE CSC 
Info Night Monday January 20 6:00-6:30 p.m. at the esc 

Interview now! 
SOCIAL CONCERNS 

$1700 Tuition Scholarship 3 Theology credits 
Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. Holiday Celebration 1997 Reviving the Dream Deferred 
MONDAY 
January 20, 7:30 pm The Huddle, LaFortune 
RALLY: 
"" 
~:G:~~:!~=z~~ng _.tJ 

Seth Miller and Megan Murray. ~.­
Student leaders challenge the Notre Dame 
community to be part ofthe solution to the 
problems, to examine our responsibility 
for hearing the concerns ofthe disenchanted 
and to assert our role in achieving an equitable society. 
Guest speaker: Daren Mooko Assistant Director of Multicultural Student Affairs, Ball State U 
Sponsors: 
Student Government 
African American Student 
Alliance, Amnesty International, 
Campus Ministry, Center for Social 
Concerns, Filipino American Student 
Organization, Student Affairs, 
Multicultural Studenr Affairs. 

Barbour: Don't ignore IDinorities 
By JOHN KING Associated Press Writer 
WASHINGTON 
Closing a remarkable stint as national GOP chairman, Haley Barbour warned Thursday that Hepublican gains of recent years arc at risk if the party ignores its rocky standing with women and minority voters. 
In his farewell address to the Hepublican National Commit­tee, Barbour said Hepublicans should be more patient in enacting their agenda and more willing to celebrate poli­cy diversity within GOP ranks. 
"After decades in the minori­ty, sometimes it seemed like we had to get everything done at once, afraid we might never get another chance," Barbour said in looking back at the tumultuous 1995-96 congres­sional session. 
"That was a mistake. We 

have to fight hard to get the whole loaf, to propose good policy and push to have our ideas adopted. . 
But we have to learn that sometimes it is necessary to get that loaf one slice at a time." 
Despite Barbour's misgiv­ings, GOP activists were in decidedly high spirits as they celebrated gains made during Barbour's tenure and prepared to vote Friday on a successor. 
When Barbour took office in January 1993, the party was reeling from its presidential defeat, was in the minority in both the House and Senate and held just 17 governorships. 
There also was bitter public debate over the rising influ­ence of Christian conservatives in GOP affairs and whether the party should abandon its anti­abortion platform plank. 
Four years later, the GOP runs both chambers of 
Congress, controls 32 of the 50 governorships and has posted a net gain of more than 500 state legislative seats. 
"We've become the majority party in America," Barbour said. Still, abortion and other internal policy debates contin­ue, and Barbour said the test of the GOP as a majority party is "learning to manage your coalition" and embrace diver­sity. 
Of the half-dozen candidates to succeed Barbour, three are considered in the top tier for­mer New Hampshire Gov. Steve Merrill and two veterans of the 165-member RNC, David Norcross of New Jersey and Jim Nicholson of Colorado. 
But no contender is consid­ered close to the necessary majority, and the candidates spent Thursday at meetings and receptions courting sup­port for an election expected to take several ballots to settle. 
VIEWPOINT 

Friday, January 17, 1997 page 9 
THE OBSERVER 
NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1996-97 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Elizabeth Foran 
Managing Editors Patricia Carson Tom Roland 

News Editor ........................ Brad Prendergast Viewpoint Editor...................Ethan Hayward Sports Editor .....................Timothy Sher.man Accent Editor........................... Joey Crawford 
Saint Mary's Editor ................. Caroline Blum Photo Editor .......................... Michael Ruma 
Business Manager Matt Casey 
Advertising Manager ............................ EIIen Ryan Ad Design Manager ............................... Jed Peters Production Manager ..........••.......... Heather Cocks Systems Manager ....................... Michael Brouillet 
Controller ......................................... .Tyler Weber 

The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notte Dame duLac and Sainr Mary's College. Ir does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administra­tion of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned edi­torials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoim Editor, Accem Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editbr. Commentaries, letters and Inside Columns present the views of the authors, and not necessarily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's com­munity and to all readers. The free expression of varying opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 

Editor-in-Chief Managing Editor/Viewpoint Sports News/Photo Accent/Saint Mary's Day Editor/Production General Information  631-4542 631-4541 63 I-4543 631-5323 631-4540 631-5303 631-7471  Business Office Advertising Systems/Marketing Dept. Office Manager Fax Viewpoint Ad E-Mail  E-Mail obser 631-5313 631-6900/8840 631-8839 631-7471 631-6927 Viewpoint. I @nd.edu ver@darwin.cc.nd.edu  
• lETTER To THE EmmR  
RecSports and rest of administration  
should serve students first and foremost  



Dear Editor: 
I am writing this letter to inform the Notre Dame community, especially the students, of what happened last semester to me and the rest of the Morrissey foot­ball team. 
When our season ended, we had a perfect record. We were eagerly anticipating the play-offs, right? Wrong! Apparently, after we beat Off-Campus, there was some dissension among their team concerning the possible outcome of that game if I had not participat­ed. Off-Campus began to question my eligibility, and soon approached other teams in the league with the same concerns. There were rumors of formal com­plaints being submitted to RecSports, but the Morrissey team felt that if there were any discrepan­cies with my eligibility, then yve would bring them forth to RecSports ourselves. Therefore, we obtained a copy of the eligibility rules to discern for ourselves. 
The rule in question reads, "a student who has won a monogram from any college or university granting a standard baccalaureate degree shall not be eligible for Interhall athletic competition in that sport or relat­ed sports." I was a division 1-AA scholarship athlete at Furman University. I was a three-year letterman, but I did not receive a monogram as they do at Notre Dame. However, we looked at the spirit of the law rather than the letter of the law and decided that I was not eligible to play. The controversy with RecSports arose when Morrissey was trying to appeal the conse­quences of violating this eligibility rule. The rule called for our team to forfeit "all contests in which the ineligible student played." We did not think that it was fair for our entire team to be denied the chance of playing in the stadium for the championship. 
Our argument was based upon the fact that I had played all oflast season and no one questioned my eli­gibility when we were 3-2. However, now that we were undefeated and were strong contenders for the championship, questions arose. The fact that I played for Furman was known throughout the league, and it was the very reason I was asked to serve as head coach for the Manor. Furthermore, our frustration with RecSports was even greater because last season we were ousted from the play-offs due to a mistake that RecSports made. They had mistakenly scheduled us for one too many games. Of course, they did not realize this until it was time to pick play-off spots. In order to remedy the situation, they decided not to count one. of our games which just so happened to be a win, and just like that, we were out! We appealed, but to no avail because it would have inconvenienced their play-off schedule. 
A year later, we found ourselves in a similar situa­tion concerning a play-off spot. We appealed to RecSports, and they set up a student panel made up of athletic commissioners from various dorms to hear the case. Ultimately, the student panel voted in our favor and said that the eligibility rule should be changed, that I should be able to play, and that our team should be in the play-offs. RecSports overruled the student panel, which was understood to have the "final" word, saying that it would be "unprecedented to change a rule in mid-season" -a rule that was voted unfair by the students! 

My understanding is that the rules were made to keep the playing field level, and I feel that my pres­ence on the Morrissey football team in no way put things out of balance. I sacrificed a lot of time and effort in organizing and running Morrissey's team. Interhall football meant a great deal to me, and of all the levels l have played, I bave never won it all, and this past season was my chance. 
Notre Dame provides what seems to be endless op­portunities for personal growth. I have been fortunate to experience this growth as a resident assistant, as a confirmation candidate, as a service volunteer, as a student, as well as a participant in interhall athletics. I wanted to experience the opportunities Notre Dame offers like every other student. Unfortunately, I was not treated as such. 
RecSports is organizing a committee consisting of students and RecSports' administrators sometime this month in order to look over and amend the rules and regulations governing RecSports, and I will be a mem­ber. 
I believe that my experience with RecSports is indicative of the atmosphere surrounding the true relationship between the Notre Dame administrators and the student body. It exhibits a lack of true sensi­tivity to student needs and issues by the ad­ministration which is augmented by an air of students being listened to, but not heard. 
I believe that those in charge in other areas of the administration could learn from RecSports and really listen to the students' concerns regarding the lack of a student "Bill of Rights" in du Lac, gay and lesbian rights, campus improvements and numerous other issues concerning student life. The leaders of the Notre Dame comy:mnity have a responsibility to the students. They can table issues, create ad hoc commit­tees, or redirect decisions out of student-run organiza­tions hands, but eventually they are obligated to deal with the concerns of those who are the very reason that they exist-students! 
MARK TATE 
· Senior Morrissey Hall 
7lJN/6HTA8CNIJIAJ5 HA~ teARNW 7HATMR.5/MP50N HA5 JI.J5T teTAINW A PR/VIffe /NVe9TIGATDR'5 tJceN5e ... 
GARRY TRUDEAU 
...ANI? 15 NOW COMEJ!N6 
8/?ENTWOO!J IN !iEARCH OF 7H/3 PI3RSON R$fOV5/I!Jt& FeR 7Hf3CRIMC5 OFMilCH H£3. IUA5 
ACIJUITTEP. t?eAC-TION F!?OM N&/6HI!JOI?S HAt; BeeN M/XE/?. 

• 0UOTE OF THE DAY 
"It snowed and snowed 
the whole world over./ Snow swept the world from end to end./ A candle burned on the table./ A can­dle burned.' 
-Boris Pasternak 
VIEWPOINT 

page 10 Friday, January 17, 1997 
• OFTEN WRONG, BUT NEVER IN DOUBT 
Just how Catholic does Notre Dame want to be? 
"[The Spanish Inquisition] ... was a purely Catholic establishment, devoted to the ascendancy of Catholicism, keen­ly zealous for theological truth, the stern foe of every anti-Catholic idea and administered by Catholic theolo­gians; yet it in no proper sense belonged to the Church." 

Christopher 
Regan 
Notre Dame is not purely Catholic, nor are we "devoted," "stern," or "zeal­ous," much less "keenly" so. We are administered by Catholic theologians, but it has recently been made clear that our theology department might prefer it otherwise. It seems Notre Dame has very little in common with the Inquisition except that last quality -there is no "proper sense" in which we belong to the Church either. 
The call both to faith and good works in the two great commandments pro­vides a ruler to measure Catholic char­acter. We search for faith in the tenets of the Catholic religion and fealty to the authority of her emissaries on earth. The Gospel provides the example of how to love your neighbor as yourself. 
T.S. Eliot wrote that among the "gifts reserved for age" is "the remembrance of things ill-done and done to other's harm, which once we took for exercise of virtue." It would not, then, surprise him that Notre Dame's theology depart­ment is among the nation's most vener­able. 
The bitter rebellion against the authority of the University President over a small matter speaks volumes about deteriorating regard for proper authority -not (as might be expected) among the students, but among those appointed to instruct them. 
It didn't help that there was really nothing to fight for, nothing to be gained. That battle had only casualties, but it exposed another of Eliot's gifts ­"the shame of motives late revealed." An academic dispute is fierce because the stakes are so low. 
Nothing is more fundamental to a Catholic community than to welcome outsiders warmly, to accept them freely and to incorporate them rapidly. As Father Sarin's days have faded further into the past, more and more non­Catholics have b_ecome part of the Notre Dame family. This we rightly count among our strengths. It is not, however, an unlimited good. 
We are routinely advised that the quality of the faculty and the student body could never be so high if Notre Dame was 100 percent Catholic. Of course that's true, but it's also beside the point. Jesus did not welcome oth­ers for His sake, he welcomed them for their sake. From this path we stray far­ther every day. 
The annual commotion over U.S. News and World Report's rankings is ominous. The citation of our rank above the golden dome on our website is finally gone, but "our special place" among American Universities is being reduced to "17." A University which once prized its uniqueness is now ruled by priorities entirely not its own. 
Construction is campus-wide while tho student body remains fairly con­stant. Cutting edge facilities, many more offices and 20,000 seats all have ample wages while financial aid goes begging. Someone has confused motion with progress here. 
This University was once a mission of one man on behalf of his Church. It was to be one of God's good works and a refuge in a land without faith. Along with the next price increase for that refuge, let there be a letter which makes the abandonment of that mis­sion explicit. 
Every concession made by the University's original charter is mot with the same arguments and assurances. "It's what we have to do to remain competitive." With whom a,re we com­peting'? And why'? 
Four years at Notre Dame cost more than twice as much as tho average American family makes in a year. That's an astronomical sum. Its ulti­mate consequence is that by and large, only the wealthiest people can afford to be here. llow can that be consistent with calling this a Catholic university? 
Make no mistake, the financial resources of tho University are astounding, but from a Catholic point of view, they are also idle. They are reno­vating Grace, building another book­store and new dorms for the students who used to live in Grace and two other new dorms for some other reason, and building God-knows-what out past COBA. I think it might be a golden calf. That would genl1rate a lot of' "dollars spent per student." 
Oh, and there's a billion dollars in the bank somewhere. That ranks us pretty high, for those of you scoring at home. It's the story of tho rich fool, building his storehouses for the years to come. "But God said to him, 'You fool, this very night your life will be required.. .' Thus will it be for the one who stores up treasures for himself. but is not rich in what matters to God." 

Is nothing more worthy of the awe­some financial resources of the University than a foolish competition for a meaningless number? 
Calm down, we are told. Notre Dame can be competitive and Catholic. Why we play someone else's game is taken for granted. Meanwhile, academic free­dom becomes the freedom to set mie's self in diametric opposition to the mis­sion of Our Lady's University. 
Catholicism is not a "take what you want and leave the rest" proposition. Nevertheless the University is more choosy about how Catholic it is willing to be every day. Look around and ask yourself, what is really being done here to advance the Church? We take a dangerous amount of pride in being "special" -why are we trying so hard not to be? 
Some see our Catholic roots as incompatible with first-rate education. What that says about their concept of education is instructive. We are slip­ping their way more every year. C.S. Lewis wrote that the surest road to hell was a slow one, "soft underfoot, with­out markers, without sudden turnings, without signposts." 
Notes and Asides: 
-The students really need to be moved to tho other side of the JACC for basketball, so we can sit behind the opponents bench, like Americans. 
-If the University didn't know coach Holtz was leaving, why did the poster distributed at tho OSU game on Sept. 28 have tho program cover that said 'Tho Holtz legacy' on it'? Never put my bat in the closet. 
Christopher Regan is a senior !lrls and Letters major. His column appears every other Friday. 
• RIGHT OR WRONG? 
Holy Cross priests surrendered own authority 
They should have adopted my motion. In 1988-89, I served "jury duty" on the Faculty Senate. The company of the sen­ators, for each of whom I have a high regard, made it enjoyable. But there was little basis for confidence in the ability of the Senate, as a body, to orga­nize a university, a rear-end collision or anything else. Its main concerns seemed to be faculty benefits and the 
Charles Rice 

preservation of academic turf. The meetings reminded me of the sessions of a high school student council. So, as the high point of my Senate career, I moved that the Senate abolish itself. The motion failed. 
That motion was brought to mind by the Dec. 3 Senate vote expressing, by a 29-5 margin, its "strong disapproval" of University President Father Edward Malloy's appointment of a Holy Cross priest as a visiting professor to the the­ology department over the Department's objection. The punch line was that "a president who makes such decisions seriously erodes the confidence that a faculty ought to have in a President." 
The Senate executive committee had referred the issue to the Senate because "the committee felt [Malloy] had disre­garded the University's normal proce­dures and discredited the academic in­tegrity of the theology department." Two members of that executive committee, incidentally, are members of the Theology Department. It helps to have a friend in court. The president ought to follow prescribed procedures, but this is not merely a dispute about procedure. Moreover, neither the theology depart­ment nor the Senate explicitly denied the authority of the president to make the appointment. A dissenting Senator Robert Blakey noted, "any number of appointments to the faculty as well as to chairs have been made, since 1967, by the president over the objections of var­ious departments." The president, according to the University's bylaws, is "the executive head of the University ... He shall make appointments to the aca­demic and nonacademic staffs." University statutes require the University "to make full use of the unique skills and dedication of the .. priests of Holy Cross." 
What this serio-comic scolding of the president by the Senate really reflects is the regrettably diminished status of Holy Cross priests at Notre Dame. This diminution is a result of the change in the character of Notre Dame which those priests themselves effected. Notre Dame was founded and owned by the Congregation of the Holy Cross until, in 1967, Notre Dame severed its juridical connection to the Church by changing to control by a lay-dominated board of trustees, as did most Catholic universi­ties in this country. At the Notre Dame retreat at Land O'Lakes, Wisconsin, in 1967, officials of the leading Catholic universities declared that: 
''To perform its teaching and research functions effectively, the Catholic univer­sity must have a true autonomy and aca­demic freedom in the face of authority of whatever kind, lay or clerical, external to the academic community itself." 
Land O'Lakes remains the embodi­ment of Notre Dame's conception of itself as a Catholic university. Canon Law requires that "those who teach the­ological disciplines in any institute of higher studies have a mandate from the competent ecclesiastical authority." Ex Corde Ecclesiae, the 1990 Apostolic Constitution on Catholic higher educa­tion, requires that "Catholic theologians, aware that they fulfill a mandate received from the Church, are to be faithful to the magisterium of the church as the authentic interpreter of sacred Scripture and sacred tradition." Notre Dame has resisted effective enforcement by the Church of these definitions of what is required to be a theology teacher at a Catholic university. Should we be shocked if the theology depart­ment and the Senate follow that exam­ple by resisting the president's own defi­nition on that point? 
The theology department is acting out the Land O'Lakes insistence on "a true autonomy" in the face of any "authori­ty... external to the academic community itself.'' The department could contend that, with respect to the teaching of the­ology, it is itself the primary "academic community." Land O'Lakes also urged "basic reorganizations of structure... to share the responsibility of direction more broadly and to enlist wider sup­port." The department could argue that, as the "academic community" directly involved, it ought to "share tho responsi­bility of direction" at least to tho extent of vetoing appointments. 
Before 1967, the authority of the pres­ident to appoint a Holy Cross priest to the faculty, at his discretion, would not have been challenged. It is not surpris­ing that, throe decades after Land O'Lakes, the preferred status of Holy Cross priests at Notre Dame is eroding. As Malloy has stated, "we are quickly slipping below 50 percent in the per­centage of the overall faculty who de­scribe themselves as Catholics." The principal offices relating to academies and student affairs are held by others than Holy Cross priests, as is the chair­manship of the theology department. In some quarters of this University, the Holy Cross priests, like Rodney Dangerfield, get little respect. But they brought that on themselves. 
Curiously, tho Holy Cross priests have not relinquished actual control of the University. The governance of the University is ultimately in the twelve fel­lows, six of whom must be Holy Cross priests. The fellows "have and exercise all power and authority granted by" the State of Indiana to Notre Dame. The Fellows, "a self-perpetuating body," elect the trustees, amend the bylaws, approve any substantial transfer of University property and are responsible for maftltaining the "essential character to the University as a Catholic institu­tion." 

Through the six Holy Cross priests who are fellows, the Congregation may fairly be said to have the de facto power to run Notre Dame or at least to prevent any action of which those Fellows dis­approve. But this power is divorced from any corporate responsibility of the Congregation. The separation of power from responsibility for its exercise vio­lates basic principles of leadership and management. Why are we surprised that Holy Cross priests are treated here with something less than the deference they received when they had the forti­tude, as a Congregation, to run the place they had founded'? They owned the place and imprudently gave it away. They seek preferential treatment as members of the Congregation, but they have surrendered the right, as a Congregation to ensure it. Nor is it whol­ly incidental that they tend to look like everyone else, except perhaps on foot­ball weekends and other alumni-inten­sive events. In the spirit of Land O'Lakes they have put themselves on the road to a marginalization which invites disdain. 
Notre Dame should reconsider Land O'Lakes. If the Holy Cross priests want the respect they ought ro have, they should take back the juridical authority, as a Congregation, to run the University. The Faculty Senate might throw a tantrum. But I have an old motion lying around somewhere.... 
Charles Rice is on the Law School fac­ulty. His column appears every other Friday. 
ACC~NT 
page 11

Friday, January 17, 1997 
Bringing the Blues to the· Ballroom 
By DAN CICHALSKI Assistant Accent Editor 
T
he first weekend of the winter is upon us and the Student Union Board has wasted no time in bringing life to the frozen white campus of Notre Dame. Dave Myers and the Off the Wall Blues Band will perform in the LaFortune Ballroom tonight at 8 p.m. 
The Off the Wall Blues Band released their first album last May and garnered favorable reviews for the band. On the Money features the guitar, harp, bass and drums of the band on original tunes and covers of Rice Miller and Billy Boy Arnold compositions. The band toured the East Coast this summer to promote the album. 
The Off the Wall Blues Band 
features Lorenzo Thompson on 
vocals, Jumpin' Gene Halton on 
the harmonica, Hiro Konishi 
playing guitar, bass player 
John Baker and Kirk Wright on 
drums. 
Halton, a sociology professor 
here at Notre Dame, received 
his nickname as a record-set­
ting high jumper at Princeton 
University in the 1970s. 
Originally from New Jersey, 
Jumpin' Gene was singled out 
in a review of On the Money in 
the Italian magazine "II Blues": 
"Everything seems to rotate 
around the charismatic figure 
of Jumpin' Gene Halton. The 
over-forty harmonica player 
from Chicago blows expertly 
and traditionally, as the name 
of the band... confirms." 
Thompson brings a powerful 
voice and presence to the of a rock band covering the years living and performing in The two soon teamed up with bass. Myers continued to play 
band, also grabbing the atten­Beatles. It was through a Los Angeles. His band London harp player Junior Wells and that instrument for the rest of 
tion of the audience. After liv­· cover of a Beatles song that Fog had music featured in the later added drummer Fred his career with various bands 
ing the first seven years of his Konishi first heard the style movie "The ldolmaker." Below to form the Aces, a band and continues to work within 
life in Mississippi, Thompson and eventually was so influ­Performing as a guest of the that soon became the leading the Chicago blues scene and as 
moved to Chicago and began enced by the genre that he Off the Wall Blues Band will be electric blues band in Chicago, a solo guitarist in the recording
singing rhythm and blues. made the move to the United Dave Myers. Born and raised second only to blues legend industry.
Influenced by Muddy Waters, States. in Mississippi, Myers moved Muddy Waters and his band. Myers' recording career is 
Bowlin' Wolf and John Lee Bassist Baker also has spent with his family to Chicago in Later, Dave Myers left the Aces nearly as long as his perform­
Hooker, Thompson went exclu­
a lot of time on the Chicago 1941, providing exposure to and joined Waters. ing history. His most recent 
sively to blues performing and, blues scene. He has spent sig­the blues since a young age. In 1955, Dave and his broth­addition to forty years of 
in his words, "back to my nificant time touring and per­Born in 1926, he learned to er formed a new band and recording, in which he appears
roots." forming with the likes of Eddie play guitar and was performing three years later, the elder as band leader of Blacktop, will 
Konishi moved to Chicago Jones, Buddy Guy and John with his younger brother Louis Myers made an instrument be released next month. The 
from Kobe, Japan, to play at Hammond. at house parties when the fam­change. When he put aside his album features some of today's
the heart of the blues scene. Wright has performed as a ily came to the Windy City, tak­guitar and began playing bass, top blues players, such as har­
His interests began in Japan, drummer throughout Indiana ing Myers' musical career back Dave became one of the first monica player Kim Wilson and 
where Konishi was a member and Michigan and spent ten more than fifty years. blues players to use an electric guitarist Rusty Zinn. 


---------------------~~---.~------------------·-------------­
page 12 The Observer • SPORTS Friday,January 17, 1997 
• SuPER BowL XXXI 
Hoops 
continued from page 1

Pats' rookies key to Super Bowl run 
absence. Both Hill and fresh­man forward Etan ThomasBy HOWARD ULMAN 
should find themselves 
Associated Press Wrirer 

wrapped up with Notre Dame's Pat Garrity, who inevitably hasFOXBORO, Mass. 
become, according to MacLeod,Every once in a while, his New England "the focal point of our offense."
Patriots teammates remind Tedy Bruschi In the last game between thehe's just a rookie. 

two teams, the Irish were suc­The linebacker glanced toward a smiling 
cessful in breaking theChris Slade in the adjacent locker Syracuse zone with sharp
Thursday and said, "I've still got to buy shooting from the perimeter,him breakfast and I've still got to drive him forcing the Orangemen into ato practice." 

man-to-man situation.
Other tha~ that, there are few signs that 

"We hope to attack their
Bruschi is in his first NFL season. The 

zone like we did the last gamesame goes for wide receiver Terry Glenn, when we shot the daylights out
strong safety Lawyer Milloy and kicker 

of them," MacLeod offered.
Adam Vinatieri. 

"We'll need to get a higher
All were instrumental in getting the 

percentage of our shots to dropPatriots to the Super Bowl. 
in, and be more consistent
Glenn set an NFL rookie record with 90 from the free throw line."
catches. Milloy started every game after Small forward Gary Bell hasGame 6 and quickly gained a reputation as returned to action after a longa hard hitter. Vinatieri became a depend­bout with an ankle injury, butable kicker after some early troubles, and has yet to make as significantBruschi was valuable as a special teams an impact offensively as wasplayer and linebacker on passing downs. 

expected. MacLeod attributes"It would be a little uncommon for rookie this to a lack of practice time. 
players to come in and play as well as they "Gary Bell is not ready yet,"have," coach Bill Parcells said. Then, he he said. "He missed two fulladded, "We knew that they were going to months of practice. He's got abe good players pretty fast." 

knack for scoring, we've seenThey are key members of New England's him before. But I really wantsecond consecutive strong rookie class. 
to see a healthy Gary Bell." 
Cornerback Ty Law, linebacker Ted Strong perimeter shooting,

Johnson, running back Curtis Martin and 

the key to snapping the
center Dave Wohlabaugh all were drafted Syracuse zone, is largely thein 1995. 

responsibility of the guards.
Martin led the AFC in rushing last sea­Pete Miller, who hit a few in son, Johnson was the team's leading tack­the Villanova game, will needler this season, and all four have started 

to light it up to prevent the
for two years. 

zone from collapsing inside.
''I'm not going to say it's easy," Johnson lie will be spelled by Antonisaid. "You've got coach Parcells, who is not Wyche at the two spot. most

the easiest coach for a rookie to play likely relegating freshman

under, and the pressure that we've been 
Keith Friel to the bench. 
under the last month or so. 

Matt Gotsch will return to his"I've been impressed with the way the starting role at center and will guys handled it. I don't sense any letdown need to use his height advan­from the younger players." 
tage to help take the offensiveIn the Patriots' opening 28-3 playoff win burden off of Garrity inside. 
over Pittsburgh, Glenn caught a 53-yard Gotsch's alley-oop slam against pass on their second offensive play that set the Wildcats provided one of up Martin's 2-yard touchdown run on the "We all come from winning programs, playoff games and I'm going to the Super the most exciting plays of the next play. myself at the University of Washington, Bowl," he said. 

season for Notre Dame, but
In their 20-6 win over Jacksonville in last Terry at Ohio State. I don't think that we The Patriots' average age of 26.19 years he'll need to put in more thanSunday's AFC championship game, came in wanting to play like rookies. We was the youngest of the NFL's 12 playoff two points to be effective onBruschi's interception with 1:52 left wanted to come in and contribute and pro­teams. Only four of their starters are over Saturday.
snuffed out the Jaguars' last slim hope. duce early." 30. 


Milloy has 12 tackles and an interception Other rookies have made lesser contribu­Yet they have been extremely disciplined in the two games, and Vinatieri made two tions. on and off the field all season. 
Celebrate a 

of his three field-goal attempts against Running back Marrio Grier, a sixth­"I trust this team," Parcells said. "I have Jacksonville. round pick, has been solid on special teams good kids on this team and I haven't had "As soon as I got on the field in my first and played an increased role on offense any problems." 
friend's 

game, I didn't feel like a rookie anymore," when fullback Sam Gash was lost for the Bruschi, a third-round choice from said Milloy, a second-round draft choice. season with a knee injury Dec. 8. Arizona, remembers rookie camp in the Now they're headed to the NFL champi­Ray Lucas, a free agent quarterback spring and living at a motel near Foxboro 
birthdayonship game Jan. 26 against the Green Bay from Rutgers, was activated from the prac­Stadium with other first-year players. Packers, who won the first two Super tice squad for the Dec. 15 game against "We have a bond because we've gone Bowls. Dallas and has contributed on special through the same things," Bruschi said. 
with a special
"I feel very fortunate," Milloy said. "I teams. "So it's nice to see Terry and Lawyer and guess I won't have that true feeling of it "Next thing you know, you're activated other guys do well because they're part of 
Observer ad.
until the year I don't go. and playing the last two games, we win two your class, so you feel proud." 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. 
Classifieds Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
NOTICES  Texts 25%0ff! 24 Hour Service.  FILEMAKER PRO database designer needed for projects this  ALASKA EMPLOYMENT -Fishing Industry. Many earn up to  1988 Mercury Tracer, 5-spd. $1,150. Good dependable trans.  Florida Spring Break! Panama City! Room With Kitchen Near Bars  
Buy/Sellffrade.  semester-Call1-5610  $4,000+/mo. during peak season.  259-7872.  $119! Daytona-Best Location $139!  
CANCUN-PADRE-MAZATLAN  Open 7 Days per week  Benefits often include  Florida's New Hotspot-Cocoa  
SPRING BREAK'S HOTIEST!  ND at Howard Street  NATIONAL PARK EMPLOYMENT- Transportation  Need books? Try the LaSalle  Beach Hilton $169! springbreaktrav­ 
1-800-328-7513  233-2342  National Parks hire forestry work­ and/or Room & Board. For details:  Bookstore for the best in theology  el.com  
FREE FOOD. DRINK & PARTY  Pandora's Books  ers, park rangers, firefighters, life­ (206)971-3510 ext. A55849  and philosophy books. Special  1-800-678-6386  
SPECIAL!/!  ILOST & FOUND I guards, + volunteer and govern- orders welcome. 234-0003  
Up to $200 Discount Coupons on our Website  ment positions. Excellent benefits + bonus potential.  FOR RENT  4 Bedrm. furnished house, sec. sys- If you accidently picked up my black wool coat at the Boat Club  
... _  www.studentadvtrav.com  Call: 1-206-971-3620 ext. N55841.  tem, wash/dry, beach v-ball, prime  on Sunday, please call Kerry at  
If you picked up my black wool  EE grad. student seeks roommate.  location, 109 N. St. Peter  288-1542-I'm freezing without it!  
Spring Break Bahamas Party  coat at the Boat Club on Sunday,  EASTERN EUROPE EMPLOY- Private room, $170/mo+electric.  233-9947  
 
Cruise! 6 Days $279! Includes All  Please call Kerry at 288-1542,  MENT-Travel Eastern Europe by  631-7932(day),272-1837( evn)  POST-NEW YEAR'S EVE  
Meals, Parites, & Taxes! Great Beaches & Nightlife! Leaves From  I am freezing without it!  teaching basic conversational English in Prague, Budapest, or  3 Bedroom $425+dep  PERSONAL  PARTY Friday, Jan.17  
Ft. Lauderdale! 1-800-678-6386 springbreaktravel.com  WANTED  Krakow. Inexpensive Room & Board + other potential benefits.  Available Now 602 1/2 StLouis Across from Rocco's 232-2595  PREGNANT?  at Jazzman's featuring elsie's promise  
Find out how to succeed in this  Consider the loving option of  
Florida Spring Break! Panama City!  SUMMER CAMP EMPLOYMENT  field. Call: (206)971-3680 ext.  2 bdrms, near campus.  Adoption. Caring, devoted couple  SECOND ANNUAL  
Room With Kitchen Near Bars  Minnesota coed children's camp  K55844  Use of all utilities. 275/mo. Safe.  wish to share our love, laughs. and  CLASS OF '97 SKI TRIP  
$119! Daytona-Best Location $139!  seeks enthusiastic cabin counselors  Paul 232-2794  lives with an infant. Call for profile  $45/ticket includes transpo,  
Florida's New Hotspot -Cocoa  and instructors for over 30 activities  CRUISE SHIP EMPLOYMIENT- and more info: Andrea and Lee: 1­ rentals, lift tickets. and hotel.  
Beach Hilton $169! springbreaktrav­el.com  including: Archery, Art, Biking, Boardsailing, Canoeing, Diving,  Travel the world (Hawaii, Mexico, Caribbean) & earn an excellent  FOR SALE  800-213-3960  Jan 25-26 @ Cascade Mtn. and hotel in Madison, WI  
1-800·678-6386  Fishing, Lifeguards, Riflery, Sailing,  income in the Cruise & Land-Tour  Spring Break Bahamas Party  Get your ticket @ LaF info desk  
Shop, Trip Leaders, Waterskiing.  Industry. For details, call 1-206­ Cruise! 6 Days $279! Includes All  ••sPOTS ARE LIMITED!! ..  
Rep on St. Mary and UND campus­ 971-3550 ext.C55845  Add -Bed -Queensize orthopedic  Meals, Parties & Taxes! Great  
#1 Mary Kay Cosmetics. On  es 1/28. Camp Foley HCR 77 Box  premium mattress set. Never used  Beaches & Nightlife! Leaves From  D. Hawk:llook like the thing that ate  
campus, convenient. Call  172 Pine River MN 56474 218­ SMC student seeks Fe. roommate  still in package -cost 550 sacrafice  Ft. Lauderdale! 1-800-678-6386  the beast that ate ... something else  
Margrette 284-5261  5430-6161 or sbfhouse@uslink.net  for spring,cute duplex,garage,own  175. (219) 674-2352  springbreaktravel.com  really big. What a stupid little stupid  

 room, 5min from campus.271-9843  little stupid person.  

Friday, January 17, 1997 The Observer • SPORTS 
• MAJOR lEAGUE BASEBALL 
Mesa faces rape charge 
By KEN BERGER 
Associated Press Writer 
CLEVELAND 

Jose Mesa, the Cleveland Indians' 
record-setting relief pitcher, was 
indicted Thursday on a charge of rap­
ing a 26-year-old woman he met at a 
nightclub. 
Mesa, 30, also was indicted on two 
counts of gross sexual imposition, one 
count of felonious assault, and one 
count each of theft and carrying a 
concealed weapon related to a com­
plaint by two women Dec. 22, said 
Cuyahoga County Prosecutor 
Stephanie Tubbs Jones. 
The county grand jury also indicted 
Mesa's friend, David Blanco, 34, of 
Solon, Ohio, on one count of gross 
sexual imposition and one count of ·carrying a concealed weapon. Gerald Messerman, Mesa's lawyer, said the pitcher would plead innocent. 
"We have ample evidence that he is 
what he always has been -an inno­
cent man," Messerman said. 
Blanco also plans to plead innocent, 
said his lawyer, Niki Schwartz. 
Mesa and Blanco were arrested Dec. 
27 on charges they fondled two 
women at a hotel in suburban 
Lakewood. The women told police 
they had met Mesa, who is married, 
and Blanco at a downtown nightclub. 
Police said they found 9mm hand­
guns in each man's car when they 
arrested them. 
Mesa and Blanco pleaded innocent 
to gross sexual imposition Jan. 8. A 
new arraignment has been scheduled 
Jan. 31. 
Messerman accused the prosecution 
of seeking a grand jury indictment to 
avoid a public hearing that was sched­
uled Friday and because of Mesa's 
status as a pro athlete. 
"One of the problems when you 
achieve success is that anything that 
happens to you is big publicity," Messerman said. "You saw what hap­pened with Michael Irvin." 
Rape allegations against Irvin and Erik Williams of the Dallas Cowboys were found to be without basis last week, and their accuser was charged with filing a false police report. 
Messerman said he did not know why the rape indictment was added to the original charges against Mesa. 
Kathleen Craig, grand jury supervi­sor, said only that "the evidence came out to support that." She would not say whether the women testified before the grand jury. 
Rape, a felony, carries a possible penalty of 3-10 years in prison, Craig said. Felonious assault is punishable by 2-8 years, and the weapons charge, also a felony, carries a penalty of 6-18 months upon conviction. 
The theft charge, a misdemeanor, was related to accusations that Mesa stole a purse from one of the women, Craig said. 
Indians spokesman Bart Swain said the team had no comment. 
Messerman said Mesa would report as scheduled to the Indians' spring training in Winter Haven, Fla., on Feb. 13. He said Mesa, who is from the Dominican Republic, was in the United States. 
Mesa helped the Indians get to their first World Series in 41 years in 1995. He set a major league record by con­verting 46 of 48 save opportunities, in addition to a 1.13 ERA in a nearly impeccable performance as bullpen closer. 
He was 2-7 with a 3.73 earned run 
average and 39 saves in 44 chances in 
1996 as Cleveland won its second 
straight Central Division title. 
After the season, Cleveland exer­
cised a club option to pay the pitcher 
$1.95 million in 1998, plus bonuses 
earned in 1997. 


©1996Apple CampuJer, Inc All rights reserved Apple, theApple logo, Mac, Macintosh, Pr!rforma, Power Macintosh and StyleWriter are registered trademarks ofApple Com{!U/el; Inc. Apple mail-in rebate o.ffrr validfrom November 2, 1996, through january 19, 1997, uiJi/e supplies last andsubject 10 availability. 7b qual· ifyfor rebate, printer. computer and an Apple moniror (ifsold separately) must he purchased on the same invoice. Offer good on any Macintosh desktop computer with any Apple printer. Ibid where prohibited by law. See participating rese/ler for further rules and details. AU Macintosh computers are designed 10 he accessible 10 individuals with disability. 7b learn more (U.S. only), ca/1800·600-7808 or m 800·755·0601. 
"""'--.­
page 14 The Observer • SPORTS Friday, January 17, 1996 

Irvin accuser faces Rodman lashes out ... again misdemeanor charge 
Cameraman takes groin kick, now takes legal action 
ByRON LESKO 
Associated Press Writer 
MINNEAPOLIS 
This time, Dennis Rodman might be facing more than a suspension. 
Prosecutors were considering assault charges Thursday against the Chicago Bulls star for kicking a courtside camera­man in the groin during a game at Minnesota the previous night. 
"He wants to say that it's not OK for {Rodman) to do that," said Gale Pearson, the lawyer for cameraman Eugene Amos. "If we were on the streets, it would not be OK. You've got to call it what it is, and that's an assault." 
The NBA said Thursday it is reviewing the incident and con­sidering a suspension, which would be the second of the sea­son for Rodman. 
Although the extent of Amos' injuries weren't known, they weren't believed to be serious. He was treated and released at the hospital Wednesday night. 
Minneapolis police spokes­woman Penny Parrish said no charges would be filed Thursday. Pearson said she and Amos planned to meet with prosecutors Friday. 
The investigating officer, Sgt. Pete Jackson, was off Thursday and Parrish said the process will take several days, including attempts to contact Rodman. Clair Cole of the Minneapolis city attorney's office said charges wouldn't be filed before next week. 
Rodman said he didn't intend to hurt Amos, but doubted the severity of the injuries. 
"I thought I hit him in the thigh, then all of a sudden he went back," he said. "I said, 'What's wrong with you? I'm sorry I hit you.' Then all of a sudden he says, 'Get away from me.' All of a sudden he passed out. I'm like, 'Yeah, right."' 
The incident was the latest in a growing list of transgressions and erratic behavior by Rodman. Pearson said she was receiving calls from media nationwide Thursday, including representatives of Geraldo Rivera. 
'you've got to call it what it is, and that's an assault.' 
Gale Pearson 
Amos, described by Pearson as a Chicago native and lifelong Bulls fan, is an in-house cam­eraman who was working on a freelance basis at the Target Center. 
He filed an assault report Wednesday night after talking to police at the Hennepin County Medical Center, where he was taken for an examina­tion after being carried off the arena floor on a stretcher. 
If a charge is filed, it most likely will be fifth-degree assault, a misdemeanor punish­able by up to a year in jail and a $3,000 fine. Cases resulting in serious injuries can be upgrad­ed to third-degree assault, a felony which carries a maxi­mum sentence of five years and $10,000. 
The cameraman's lawyer said Rodman had no right to kick Amos, no matter where the blow landed. 
"He was really disappointed 
THE • 
Big Wool 
• Vintage Levi's •Urban
Sm~ 
~ • Silver-beaded 
1912 s. 
Belle
CO.~ INC. 687-9123 
We Buy HOURS:
·---·--·-] [··-----·-·--·····!1 Just 2.5 mi North of IN state line 
Use_d M-F:l0-7 i ~-. , ;;> _ ·--~~!_:s_ __ ·-~:~~..~~-:.~ ..J ·-l'ili C:i!i; v~~~.. 
LASALLE BOOKSTORE 
Your sourcefor the best in theological andphilosophical books! 
Our unique selection includes: Fathers of the Church, Aquinas, Newman, von Balthasar, De Lubac, Maritain, Chesterton, Classics of Western Spirituality series and Ancient Christian Writers, prayer and the saints, Bibles, biblical studies, Vatican II documents, encyclicals, catechisms, and more! 
We can special orderanybookyou need! 
I I 
I 1ooto OFF ALL BOOKS I 
1 for N.D.IS.M.C faculty andstudents with J.D. 1 
I LASALLE BOOKSTORE 237 N. Michigan St., downtown I I South Bend (at the corner of Michigan and LaSalle). I I 234-0003 • Open 10-5 Monday-Friday I 
L-------------------~ 

in this type of activity," Pearson said. "He couldn't believe that  By TERRY WALLACE  doesn't believe she's guilty of  
Hodman would take his frustra­ Associated Press Writer  any offense. I represent the vic­ 
tions out on  him. That's the  tim of a rape."  
bottom line. He can't believe  DALLAS  Shahravan filed  a  police re­ 
this happened. lie's really dis­appointed. It's a fallen-angel kind of thing." Rodman was suspended by the Bulls for two games without pay -costing him about $104,878 -last month after a profane tirade on television after a game. Hodman's com­ments after Wednesday's game also contained profanity and were broadcast live.  A woman charged with filing a false police report implicating two Dallas football players in a sexual assault was a rape vic­tim, her lawyer contended Thursday. Nina Shahravan, 23, turned herself in at the Dallas County jail about 5 p.m. Thursday and posted $500 bond on a misde­meanor charge of perjury. Police had accused her earli­ port Dec. 30 ­after first going to a television reporter -ac­cusing Irvin of holding a gun to her head while Williams and a third man, who was never identified, raped her in Williams' home. She also ac­cused Irvin of videotaping the attack. Irvin and Williams denied the claim from the start. They were never charged.  
Last season Rodman, who has won five straight NBA rebound­ing titles and earlier this week reached 10,000 rebounds, was suspended six games for head­butting a referee. "As with all situations that  er this week of filing a false police report, a Class B misde­meanor, but prosecutors increased the charge to Class A misdemeanor perjury, which carries a stiffer penalty. Shahravan refused comment  Police said Shahravan re­canted the allegations last Friday after she was con­fronted with evidence that Irvin couldn't have been at Williams' house on the night of the al­leged attack.  
we review, we'll look at video­tape, our security will talk to all parties involved," NBA spokesman Chris Brienza said Thursday. "We'll wait to get as many camera angles as we can and then we'll make a deci­ as deputies ushered her in the jail's back door, but her lawyer, David Smith, denied that she had lied in her accusa­tions against Cowboys stars Michael Irvin and Erik Williams.  Police sources confirmed to The Associated Press last week that Shahravan signed a state­ment recanting her original story. "That's what the police say," Smith said. "Let me put it this  
sion."  "I don't believe my client is  way. I don't believe she's guilty  
Rodman was unavailable for  guilty," Smith said. "My client  of an offense."  
comment Thursday after prac­ 

tice in Deerfield, Ill. He said after the game that he was kicking at a camera and com­plained that photographers sit 

Happytoo close to the court along the baseline, endangering players' safety. 
This was the second time in 

21st less than a week that Amos had been involved with a player at courtside. Los Angeles Clippers forward Rodney Rogers fell on 
Kate! 
Amos during a game Saturday, and Amos told colleagues before Wednesday's game that he had been given medication for back pain. 
Pearson declined comment on those injuries, saying only that Amos would be examined by doctors. 


''fl U\T£ NIGtHT OLYMVIC.'i> T£AM'i> 
Keough I 'Paf>queri\\a We~t I Keenan Di\\on I ~adin ll4gina Wa\~n l~rin 'Pangborn I fi~her C-avanaugh I O'Nei\\ ~reen-'Phi\\iPf' I l:.arro\\ I Lewi~ 'biegfried I 'bt. £d'~ I Ho\1 l.roflfl Aanner I Knott I Mc.l:.and\e~~ z.ahm I far\e1 Howard I A\umni L1on~ I Morri~M-1 
Frida't, Januar't '31, tqq-/ • l:OO ?M -4:oo f\M • Joic.e-Ce-nte-r • IJ,'31-1P1oo All LNO Medals Were Donated by the Notre Dame Alumni Association All T-Shirts Were Donated by<£~ 
----~----·~·-------~--------~-------~------··-----------~ -~-~---------_.........,....._,.,. ~~-~ ------,
~ 
Friday,January 17, 1997 
• NFL 
Ticket prices skyrocket as Super Bowl XXI draws near 

By MARY FOSTER 
Associated Press Writer 
NEW ORLEANS 

Callers who reach Superdome spokesman Bill Curl's voice mail these days are greeted with a terse "No, I don't have any." 
Tickets to the Super Bowl, that is. The push for Super Bowl tickets, face value $275, is intense. 
People wearing placards requesting tickets lined up this week across the street from the New Orleans Saints training camp in suburban Jefferson Parish. They were hoping to buy tickets from winners of a lottery held among Saints sea­son-ticket holders for a limited allotment of tickets. 
Although it is illegal to scalp tickets in New Orleans, four columns of classified advertise­ments in the Times-Picayune offer cash for tickets. Prices range from $750 for seats in the upper levels of the Superdome, to $2,000 for lower seats as well as for tickets to various Super Bowl-related parties. 
"I hear tickets to the commis­sioner's party are going for $2,000 each," said a man who placed one of the ads. "We may go that high before it's over, but right now we're paying $1,400 each." 
WOLFF BEDS 
~CHICAGO HAIR & TAN~
'·--·' 
5804 Grape Rd. Indian Ridge Plaza 277-7946 The Observer • SPORTS page 15 

• COllEGE BASKETBAll 

UConn benches key starters 
Coach Calhoun loses Moore, King for Kansas game 
By CHRISTINE HANLEY Associated Press Writer 
HARTFORD, Conn. 
Point guard Ricky Moore and center Kirk King, two of Connecticut's best players, were declared ineligible Thursday amid accusations they accepted improper gifts. 
The university and the Big East Conference agreed that Moore and King would not play until all questions are answered regarding the alle­gations. They will miss at least Sunday's game against top­ranked Kansas. 
The school and Big East did not identify the gifts. Published reports Thursday said King and Moore had accepted airline tickets in 1995. 
"It's not an easy time for us," coach Jim Calhoun said. "People say its not a big viola­tion -but it's still a violation . .. . They did receive benefits they were ineligible to receive." 
UConn, which on Wednesday acknowledged it was looking into a possible violation, plans to submit a report to the NCAA by Friday detailing the results of an investigation conducted by the school and the Big East. 
"The university, along with the Big East Conference, will work with the NCAA to deter­mine when the student-ath­letes' eligibility to compete will be reinstated," the school said in a statement. 
King, a senior captain, is the Huskies' starting center. Moore, a sophomore, is the starting point guard. 
Calhoun said he was "very 


GET MONEY FROM YOUR UNCLE INSTEAD. 
Your Uncle Sam. Every fees. They even pay a flat rate year Army ROTC awards for textbooks and supplies. scholarships to hundreds of You can also receive an allow-talented students. If you anceofupto$1500eachschool 

qualify, these merit-based  ~fADERSHn>  year the scholarship is in  
scholarships can help you  effect.  Find out today if  
paytuitionandeducational  you qualify.  


ARMY ROTC 
THE SMARTEST COLLEGE COURSE YOU CAN TAKE 
For details, visit Pasquerilla Center or call 
631-6986 
disappointed, initially, that they allowed themselves to be put into the situation." 
"I still love them and care about them, but I'm very dis­appointed in them," he said. 
The university has not revealed how it learned of the possible violations, only saying it became aware of them earli­er this week and wanted to deal with the situation as quickly as possible. Athletic director Lew Perkins has insisted that no UConn games 

-~·~: 
would be forfeited. 
News of the infractions sur­faced Wednesday shortly after the cancellation of a news con­,lr ference involving players and coaches from both the men's and women's basketball pro­grams. The event was to pro­mote public safety posters. 
The men's program has been highly successful during the past 11 years under Calhoun. This season, the Huskies are 11-3 overall and 4-2 in the Big East. 
r------------------------,
: Spring Break 97 : 
for info calll-800-446-8355 pnce 


• 
• 

MUSIC FROM 
BELLE 

BREEDERS • 
CRANBERRIES • • 
NO DOUBT • • • • 
GARBAGE • • ... 
ALANIS MORISSETTE • • • 
PLUS MANY MORE ....... • •
• 

DANCE WITH CHICAGO'S EXCAUBER'S HOTTEST DJ 
MIKEV C 
..... 
STARTING AT 8:00 P.M. SPINNING YOUR FAVORITE INDUSTRIAL DANCE BEFORE AND AFTER THE BAND TILL 3:00AM. 
HEARTLAND • 222 S. MICHIGAN ST.• DOWNTOWN SOUTH BEND 

~­

---------~-----~~ --------~~ 
page 16 The Observer • SPORTS Friday, January 17, 1997 
• SUPER BOWL XXI 

Beebe looks to erase bad Bills memories 
and not on the outside because it'll be hectic," Beebe told his teammates. 
"I remember my first Super Bowl, it was overwhelming ­the media and everybody wanting tickets and phone calls. Once the game came I was just shot. I was able to learn from that, and, shoot, my last Super Bowl was the best mentally I ever played." 
McMahon, who was falsely accused of saying disparaging things about the local populace at the 1986 Super Bowl, said he told his teammates to watch what they say and do because the spotlight is white-hot. 
"Basically, I told them to stay away from you guys. Because you guys are going to start all the problems, not the players," McMahon said. 
"I said, 'Just watch your backs when you're down there because I know there's going to be a lot of people out and around town. Make sure you know where you're going, where you're going to be at, have some friends with you, too, so they can verify your stories that (the media) make up."' 
With Beebe's history of Super Bowl losses, some team­mates cracked that maybe it's time for him to return to Aurora, Ill. 
ERASMUS BOOKS 
~ Used Jxx,ks bought ami sold 
• 
25 categories of Boob 

• 
25,000 JIan!back &Papcrbacl, bool~s in stock 

•
Out-of-Piint Search Servicc:$2.00 

•
Appraisals large atul small 


Open noon to six Tuesday through Sunday 1027 E. Wayne South Bend, IN 46617 
{219) 232-8444 
By ARNIE STAPLETON 
Associated Press Writer 
GREEN BAY 
Nobody on the Green Bay Packers can appreciate the all­or-nothing nature of the Super Bowl like receiver Don Beebe, who lost four consecutive NFL championships with the Buffalo Bills. 
"It's-an awful experience. That whole off-season is awful. You dominate teams all year and then you lose in the Super Bowl and you're labeled as losers," Beebe said. 
"At Buffalo, if anything, we were winners. But that's not how we'll go down in history. And that's a shame because I don't know if anyone will ever get to four straight Super Bowls again." 
Coach Mike Holmgren turned to Beebe and backup quarter­back Jim McMahon, his only other player with Super Bowl experience, to help prepare the Packers (15-3) for the Super Bowl against New England (13-5) on Jan. 26 at the Louisiana Superdome. 
McMahon was the starter for Chicago in the 1986 Super Bowl, when he took New Orleans by storm. Among other activities, he mooned a helicopter, paraded down Bourbon Street in the wee hours, feuded with Bears man­agement over his use of an acupuncturist and finally led his team to a 46-10 rout of the Patriots. 
"We had a players meeting Wednesday and I got up and talked about the things not to do and Jim got up and talked about the things to do," Beebe said. "So, that's a little ironic, don't you think?" 
Defensive end Sean Jones said the meeting was as dia­metrical as it sounds. 
"I guess they had Beebe, who is a Christian," Jones said. "And then they had McMahon, who's the anti­Christ. But Beebe lost four times and McMahon won. So, they're on different ends of the spectrum. 
"But they had great insight. Hopefully, everyone heard what they said." 
Beebe's first bit of advice was a warning about the chaotic days ahead. He advised his teammates to finish up such matters as family travel and ticket arrangements this week. 
Then he told them not to have too good of a time in New Orleans, leaving them exhaust­ed physically or mentally on game day. 
"You've got to be in the eye of a tornado, where it's calm, 
Formerly Asia House Restaurant 
THAI 
HousE 

RES TAU RANT 
Specializing in Authentic Thai Cuisine Come in and try our exotic and spicy Thai food Dine in or Carry Out 
(219) 257-4875 
20% Discount when you bring in this ad! 
Our Business Hours 
Our 
Location 
Tues -Thurs: 11AM-9PM Fri-Sat: 11AM-10PM Sun: 11AM-8PM 
508 W. McKinle Mishawaka, IN 
THE SAINT MARY's CoLLEGE AccELERATED PROGRAM IN NuRSING for women with a baccalaureate degree as of May, 1997, in any major other than Nursing. (Degree may be from an institution other than Saint Mary's.) 
• Earn a B.S. degree in Nursing in 13 months 
• Program begins May 27, 1997 
• Application deadline: February 10, 1997 
For more information, please contact 

~­
the admission office at 219/284-4587. 
# 1 ranked Saint Mary's College is accredited by the National League for Nursing. The accelerated program is offered in conjunction with the traditional baccalaureate nursing program. 
All graduates of the accelerated program have been successful in obtaining professional positions in health care. 
-~!~­
SAINT 
MARY'S 
COLLEGE 
NOTRE DAME, IN 
THE NATION'S PREMIER CATHOLIC WOMEN'S COLLEGE 
" 

"Some of the guys were say­ing, 'OK, Don, your job's done. You can go home now. We don't want you for the Super Bowl,"' Beebe said. 
Beebe, of course, wouldn't miss this for the world. He put off having surgery on a broken right ring finger during the season even though it means he risks losing flexibility in that finger forever. 
"I said, 'If I had to get surgery and not play in the Super Bowl if we go? It's worth it to me. I'll just cut it off,' " Beebe said. 
When Beebe signed with 
Green Bay for $325,700 last summer, he was a long-shot, low-risk acquisition who could provide experience, stability and insurance. 
He emerged as the third re­ceiver and kick returner, won NFC Player of the Week honors on both offense and special teams and had four touch­downs of 50 or more vards. 
Now, he's a Super i3owl con­sultant, too. 
"To play eight years and in five Super Bowls, I've been blessed," Beebe said. "I just want to know what if feels like to win one." 
AZ~MANS 
NITE CLUB 
525 HILL S'mEET 

FRIDAY, JANUARY 17­
IT'S A 

POIT NIW ~141'11111 P4RT~! 
with the Elsie's Promise Band 
Complete with party favors, balloon drop, midnight countdown, and toast! 
Relive New Year's Eve with your classmates this Friday! 
Also a Baby New Year and Father Time Contest -Prizes awarded to the best outfits! 
MUST BE 21 OR OVER 
Information Meeting 
Jan. 20th (Mon .. ), 6:30-7:00 PM 
at the Center for Social Concerns 
African American & Hispanic 
Leadership Intern Program (LIP) Summer of 1997 
$2200.00 for 10 week program Three elective Theology credits 
HA  AA  
St. Procopius-Cgo  St. Agatha-ego  
St. Ben's-Detroit  St. V. de Paul-San  
Diego  
(South Bend)  

Friday, January 17, 1997 The Observer· SPORTS 
• HOCKEY 
leers Innst SlVeep Alaska series 
By CHARLEY GATES 
Sports Writer 
The consensus among Notre Dame hockey players seems to be that this weekend's games against Alaska-Fairbanks are of the "must-win" nature. 
Eight teams from the Central Collegiate Hockey Association make the playoffs, and Notre Dame tenuously hangs on to eighth place in the league. Alaska-Fairbanks, on the other hand, is in the CCHA cellar, and when they roll into the Joyce Center for a pair of games this weekend, the first being at 7 
p.m. tonight, Notre Dame will have an excellent chance to pick up two victories and four vital points in the standings. 
"Definitely," agreed senior center Tim Harberts. "These are big games. They're below us in the standings and we need to get some points." 
"We're in a good situation," reflected sophomore right wing Brian Urick. "We've got two big home games against teams below us in the standings. If we win these we should be in a good position to make the play­offs." 
Notre Dame is coming off of a difficult stretch in which they've lost four of the past five games. A daunting problem that has plagued the team all season, most acutely in the past five games, has been the power · play. Over the break the Boys of Winter went 2 for 23 in man­advantage situations. Numbers like those make it difficult to win. 
"One of the team goals for the season was to be in the positive 
The Observer/Jed Donahue Dave Poulin will adjust the Power Play line-up as they head into a cru­cial series with post-season possiblilties hanging in the balance. 
category when it comes to man advantages [to scores more goals than you give up]." stated Urick. "We've been working on the power play, just because good special teams are essen­tial to winning games." 
Notre Dame head coach Dave Poulin has implemented several changes to address the power play quandary. First, he has made some personnel changes. He also has the team setting up differently in the of­fensive end, and he has im­plemented more set plays in at­tempts to generate more of­fense. Only time and the Alaska-Fairbanks games will tell how effective the changes are. 
Although Alaska-Fairbanks comes into the game dead last in the CCHA, they elicited re­spect from Irish players. "They're a quality team," said Harberts. 
Urick agreed. "They play very well. We're going to have to play solid defense and finish our opportunities to win the game." 
As well as to secure their grasp on a playoff berth. 


.". 
:-... ..... 
~ 

• • 7odatf! 
:,..._­
• 
---~--~----­

page 18 The Observer • SPORTS Friday, January 17, 1997 
• fENCING • SMC BASKETBAll 

Women's team anticipates opener Belles fall to Alma 
By COURTNEY REAGAN game, but fell apart in the end
as catalyst for successful season 

Sporrs Writer of the second half. The Belles 
By DAVID FRICK 
Spons Writer 
The fencing team returns to action with a vengeance this weekend. The women will be participating as a team at the Northwestern Invitational, while both men and women will send representatives to the individual tournament at the North American Circuit event in Louisville, Ky. 
This weekend will prove cru­cial as the team will be partie­ipating in events the next seven weekends, six of which will be competed away from Notre Dame. 

-~ "The seven straight weekends of competition will be a test of our character," commented Myriah Brown. "This stretch will be more grueling than any dur­·ing last season." Though the competition at the Northwestern Invitational will not be as strong as other meets this year, the squad knows the in1portance of starting as well as possible. "It's important for us to open the season with a strong showing and get off to as good a start as 
defeats as possible individually," says Brown. 
The intensity concerning this weekend permeates throughout the entire team, even those who have not experienced the gruel­ing season before. 
"Even though I haven't been through the season before, I know the better the start, the better the season will go. The entire season is geared toward the NCAA tournament, and the early part is crucial to get by with as few mistakes as possible. The goal is to qualify for the NCAAs," says freshman Magda Krol. 
Krol hopes to follow up her strong showing in the first two matches of the year by partici­pating in both the Northwestern meet as well as the open event in Louisville in the epee and foil. 
"With the depth of the compe­tition, I've set a goal of finishing in the top eight in both events. This would be quite an accom­plishment since there will be approximately 100 of the top fencers in the country there," says Krol. 
Another newcomer, for the men's squad, has set high goals 
possible and go with as few • going into the weekend also. 
Freshman foilist Chaz Hayes is gearing to perform well in the under 20 division of the tourna­ment in Louisville. 
"l feel that to finish in the top 16 out of the 100 or so fencers would be a good place. By par­ticipating with the best fresh­man, sophomore, and junior fencers in the country, l hope this will provide a good tune-up after the long layoff since the last match," says Hayes. 
A secondary goal of the team is to prepare themselves for a showdown with Penn State on Jan. 24-25. This rivalry provides the team with the strongest com­petition in the country, as Penn State won the National Championship last year. 
"No one has specifically men­tioned the meet with Penn State, but it has been on the horizon of everyone's mind," says Krol. 
"Certainly Penn State will be one of our toughest matches, and this weekend will prove to be a good warm-up for the big match," says Brown. 
So though the team has its fo­cus on the competitions this weekend, the overall goal of a national championship is never far from mind. 
Have 
The Observer 
Saint Mary's Editor is accepting applications 
something 
for the following paid position: 
to say? Use 
Observer 
Saint Mary's Sports Editor 
Saint Mary's News Editor 
classifieds. 
Please call Caroline at 631-4540 for information. 
How does room, board, academic credit, tuition credit, and a rewarding summer sound? 
N411fittll4111 'Tttllfll liltttrfM l•r•••lr 411111 
is hiring for its summer sports camp 
Pick up applications at the CSC. Call 1-6614 for more information and to schedule an interview. 
Start the Semester off Right••• 

-~ 
The Belles tried, but the cold weather kept the Saint Mary's basketball team from warming up for Alma College. Tuesday night, January 14, Saint Mary's and Alma College went to bat­tle, however, the Belles ended up falling to Alma College 77­66. 
Although all was not bad for the night. According to Saint Mary's Coach David Roeder, the Belles "played a great first half, when we went into the second half, we were up by 10 points." 
Saint Mary's did a fine job rebounding in the first half, but then the momentum changed tides. 
Saint Mary's received quality playing time from Marianne Banko, who contributed 19 points. Sheila Sandine, who is Saint Mary's top returning points leader, added 14 points, while Julie McGill, who just re­turned from studying abroad, did an outstanding job scoring 13 points for the evening. 
Sandine claimed the Belles started out playing strong, but then just defensively lost the game. 
"It was a big let down to lose that game," Sandine stated. Individually however, Sandine felt she did a fairly nice job on the court. "I am pretty happy with the way I played, although l could have done better on defense. The Belles are defi­nitely starting to come together as a team though." 
Sandine also did not have a bad remark concerning Saint Mary's new coach, Roeder. "The Saint Mary's basketball program has seen so much improvement this season. I like Roeder a lot. He is a great coach." 
The Belles had a break at Christmas, but returned to campus a week and a half early to begin practice again. The team worked hard while practicing two times a day. Saint Mary's had returned with high hopes of facing Rose­Hulman on January 9, but due to the poor South Bend weath­er conditions, the game was 

olaved well the majority of the canceled.
--------...
Happy 
21st 
Birthday 
Anne! 
~rwe. 
~. Z'ad, f'ad, &~.~. Z'em&~&~ 
Beverly Hills Ninja PG13 11:45 2:15 4:30 6:45_!1:1!!!__ Michael PG 12:00 2:30 5:00 7:30 10:00 Scream R 1:45 4:45 7:30 10:10 ___ Beavis & Butthead PG13 1:30 3:30 5:30 7:45 !ML__ 
One Fine Day PG 1:30* 4:15 6:45 9:30 ___ 
1:45* 4:30 7:15 9:45 ___ *Fri., Sat., Sun., and Mon. only 


Friday, January 17, 1997 The Observer· TODAY page 19 
CROSSWORD 
. 
ACROSS 27 N.Y.S.E. 56 Christmas light? regulator sa Say yes 
1 Monopoly 28ln a way 60 Certain cordial 
property next to Community 30 Teachers' grp. &1 Detective Chest 31 It's touched by &2 Graffiti or litter 
8 Fill the bill the thumb 63 Actress Ann 33 Noodge who played 
15 Old-fashioned Maisie
contraction 35 Squander 1& Scott novel or 37 Kiddingly Sullivan opera 40 Succeeded, as DOWN 17 Most upbeat a wish 18 Jurassic Park 44 Pasture plaint 
1 "Vienna Blood" composerterrors 45 Dangerous one 2 Fox trot, e.g. 

19 Money in the 47 ---Locka, Fla. 
3 "Who Framed bank 48 Little Roger Rabbit?'' 

20 Start of a laugh introduction rabbit 22Seeded so Olympic milieus 4 Sylvia Plath title 23 Elec. company, 51 "The War of the 5 Face ur. to e.g. Worlds" base & Dash sizes 
24 Fictional 52 News subject 1 Charlotte
salesman 54 It rides the rails Amalie's island 2& Sassy 55 City dept. 
8 Shakespearean term of address 9 Actress 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
Gardner ,_...,,_...,,_...,,..-,,-,,..-,.--.--. 1 o Night music BB-:':-+7-t:::-t:::-t':'-f':'-i 11 Being led 



3& Collectors, 43 Washington time 51 Drillmaster's informally command
B,:.,..t..:::+:::-+3+-:+:::-B 12 Obviously 
pregnant 4& Christians'-­37 Dunk 53 Like some deli 
13 Emulate Creed 38 Without orders
Cassandra 49 "The Wreck of 
understanding 55 Little row 
••=+=+7+:+.::-t 14 Spouse's the Mary Deare" 
the
assent author 57 Herr, here 
consequences
21 Britannica Hammond--59 Adept
39 Anonymousalternative 
lady
24 Maine export 41 Island where Answers to any three clues in this puzzle ,... f:+:-E-B 25 Obscurities Virginia Dare are available by touch-tone phone: 

~.;,:.+:;+:~~ t-=+=-+:,.-+-:::+-:-l 28 Earthquake 
was born 1-900-420-5656 (75¢ per minute). B-:-t':-t:-+.:+.::-i 29 No-cal drink 
42 Like St. Paul, Annual subscriptions are available for the ~-:--+=+:,;..t.,:;.E+=-1 32 Alphabet trio vis-a-vis St. best of Sunday crosswords from the last 
'-=-!..;;;;..L;;;....&.;;;;..L..;;..L;;..J 34 Pick up Louis 50 years: 1-888-7 -ACROSS. 


CREAM O'THE VALLEY ROAD 
MOTHER GOOSE & GRIMM 

" 
"' 
ED LEADER 


DILBERT 
l-\ER£'5 YOUR. ANNUAL PEP..FORMA.NCE. REVIEW 1 TINA.. 
l3ECAV5E I DON'T REMEMBER. ANYTHING FA.l\THE.P.. 13A.CK. 



YOUR HOROSCOPE JEANE DIXON 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY! IN THE NEXT YEAR OF YOUR LIFE: New business and employment trends develop. Stay on top of them 1 Settling a family feud will bring peace of mind. April finds you researching an exciting professional opportunity. The choices you make will have far-reaching conse­quences. Take great care when selecting a partner. Unexpected financial help is featured next fall; you enjoy new creative freedom. Tnke steps ro protect your W•JrH!t:rful original ideas. Romance i~ a ~lmrcc of joy and wonder 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: patriot Ben Fra11klin, boxing legend M,thr.m:nnd /di, pup­peteer Shari Lewis, actress Betty White. · 
ARIES (Marc'J: 11 April 19): The emphasis now is on transform­ing your visions of bc:tuty into tan­gible creations. You ~nd vour ro­mantic partner are on the same wa~elcngth. Offer children encour­agement. 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Giving a loved one the cold shoul­der would be a mistake. Show you can <;mpathize with snmco:k' even if you do not comp!~tely agree with his objectives. 
GEMINI (May 21-Junc 20): A younger individual may be the ideal companion today. Recycle posses­sions you no longer use. Children will become eager students if you make the leaming experience enjoy­able. 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): An expensive item catches your fancy. You are tempted to acquire it whether or not you can afford it. Remember your priorities and stick to your budget. 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Both financial rewards and personal ful­tillment can be found in the arts. Be very careful when ,,rgning papers or makiug large putchases. Something may not be as advertised. 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Be careful not to reopen a wound when talking with your loved ones. Quiet crafts or hobbies are an aid to relax­ation. Discussing a sensitive issue with a trusted adviser helps you choose between various options. · 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): There is no way you can solve a friend's financial problems. Offer practical assistance in an emergency but avoid maki11g a loan that may never be repaid. Following a hectic week, unwind at home. 
SCORPIO ((kt. 23-Nov. 21): Depend on your own efforts today. An associate m2y be in a vactllat:ng mood. Rise to tile occasion when unforeseen cvcf.l!s complic~te your work schedule. 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21 ): A sense of commitment helps you tackle tiresome chores. Addi­tional information is needed before you can complete a major project. Reschedule a meeting f01 next 
week. ~ CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Ycu. need to appear serious but not too solemn, concemed but not wor­ried. There is more than one way to overcome someone's opposition. Keep a tighter rein on spending if your mate has urged frugality. AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Romance is in the air at a social event. The success of a previous speculative venture could tempt you to go for broke. Resist this urge' The pot of gold is not in evidence. PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Economizing is a great idea now. Set a limit for spending on weekend entertainment. Attending a commu­nity-sponsored event with your loved ones will put you in a thankful mood. 
Wanted: Reporters, photographers and editors. Join The Observer staff. 
.,._ 

SPORTS Weekend 
page 20 Friday, January 17, 1997 
• MEN'S BASKETBALL 


By DAVE TREACY Associate Sports Editor 
After a recent string of four straight conference losses, Notre Dame has settled to the bottom of the Big East 6 stand­ings with a 1-5 record. The recent home loss to Villanova, which was turning into a poten­tial upset victory for the Irish 

-· 
midway through the second half before the ND offense grew stagnant, highlighted the scor­ing struggles that have plagued John MacLeod's squad as of late as the team shot woefully from both the floor and the free throw line. Now, it's time to hit the road again. 
The good news is that the opponent the Irish will face this weekend is the reason why Notre Dame is not 0-6. 
The Syracuse Orangemen host the Irish on Saturday in the Carrier Dome, hopeful to avenge the defeat they suffered in South Bend earlier this sea­son. With the continued absence of leading scorer Todd Burgan, Syracuse has had problems of its own putting points on the board. However, recent wins against Seton Hall and Alabama have MacLeod worried that the Orangemcn arc not the same team the Irish played before. 

"They've greatly improved since the last time we faced them," MacLeod said. "They've worked hard and arc beginning to see some results. We arc definitely not going to Wlderes­timate them." 
The Irish will have to keep an eye on center Otis Hill, an undersized but effective force at 6-8. llill led the Orangemen in scoring against tl1l~ Irish with 17, and has provided much of SU's firepower in Burgan's 
see HOOPS I page 12 

• WOMEN's BASKETBALL 

Irish ready for Homecoming 
Weary squad hopes to use homestand for rest, recuperation 
By JOE CAVATO Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame women's basket­ball squad will be on unfamiliar soil this weekend. Ironically, it will come as a relief as opposed to pres­sure as they return to the Joyce Center for just their sixth home contest of the season. 
"It will definitely be nice to play at home again," commented senior guard .Jeannine Augustin. "We were on the road for most of the break and this will give us a chance to get settled down and not worry about traveling." 
And travoling has certainly been something to worry about recently. The squad returned last night from their game at Syracuse Wednesday night after a "Planes, Trains, and Automobiles" experience that saw them travel through Michigan by bus after their flight from Syracuse. 
The Irish will play their next 

three contests under the Dome before leaving town again at the end of the month. Playing the three games over this. sixteen day span will give the depleted and worn out team a chance to recu­perate as they dress only nine play­ers. 
So far, the Domers are showing no ill affects of competing with less people. They have a 14-4 record and look to remain undefeated in Big East play this Saturday against Pittsburgh. 
"I think we're doing fairly well," remarked Augustin. "We all have to be in excellent shape and we just have to be more cautious and not get into foul trouble because we are not as deep as we were earlier this year." 
Coach MulTet McGraw's squad is hurting on the outside, literally. Sophomore guard Danielle Green and freshman guard Niele Ivey arc on the shelf for the year with injuries. Green ruptured her achilles tendon back in October and Ivey tore her anterior cruciate ligament in her right knee in the sixth game of the year. So perime­ter performers Augustin, junior Mollie Peirick and sophomore Sheila McMillen have had to be on top of their games while running the offense and playing moro min­utes. 
Despite the injuries the home team is in good position as none of their next three home opponents came close to the Irish last season. 
In last year's campaign the Pittsburgh Panthers finished in the cellar of the Big East 7 division with a 6-24 mark. Current Senior Beth Morgan led the Irish in a sweep of the Panthers a year ago as she totaled 44 points in the two contests where Notre Dame blew Pitt out of the building with wins by 39 and 38 points. 
Coming into the contest the Irish have been flying high on the wings of Senior center Katryna Gaither who won Big East player of the last week and is among the nation's leaders in points per game and field goal porcentage. At 6-3 Gaither has been dominate in tho paint as she ranks among the league leaders in rebounds as well as points. 
The Irish will begin their three game homestand this weekend. 
·~ 
at Syracuse vs. Alaska-Fairbanks Jan. 18, 4 p.m. 
aJ
Tonight, 7 p.m. 

~ 
• Fencers hope to start strong 
vs. Pitt Jan. 18, I p.m. 
see page 18Basketball vs. DePauw~¢ Jan. 21,7 p.m. ••'C vs. Bowling Green 

riJ leers to face Alaska-Fairbanks 
•
Tonight Swimming vs. DePauwvs. Bowling Green see page 17
Tonight ~ Jan. 3o, 7:30 p.m. ~ 




